
Saint Mary's Board of Trustees 

Tuesday
¦ Scene takes a look back at some of the wacky and College as wdl as f111di11g new plates for rccn:arion. 
¦ l~o:ml member~ gathered lasr night to discuss renovating the downright weird stories rhar helped shape the 1998­1999 school year. 
APRIL 27, 
News• 3 

Scene• 12-13 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 131 WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 
¦ :.....".M?US LIFE COUNCIL 

Members find students' actions 'irresponsible' 


Village families live off the beaten path 
built in 196] to providn housing l'or stu­
Married residents 
donts with f'amilins -mnn. wonwn and chi Id n1 n whom onn nisidn nt ca IInd
build community, 
"beyond doubt, tlrn poornst nrnmbnrs ol' thn Notrn Dame family."face hardships ";\ lot of tlrn peoplr, horn am continual­ly disgruntled a lot ol' tlrn limn," said
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Cynthia Ilaas. Village managnr. "Tlwr<''s 
Managing Editor 
a foeling or Inr.glnctl becausn wn'rn not in vinw; kind of an out-of-sight, out-of-mind After Haina Bhati tells her 16-year-old thing."
daughter and 14-ycar-old son goodnight, Tim apartnrnnts, off I )oughts Hoacl andshe and her husband unfold the futon on a miln north of tlrn Goldnn l>onw, amthe floor of their University Village apart­homo to :{58 pnopln. 84 1wn·nnt of whom ment. changing their small living room 
arc from abroad. Thn 107 apartnwnts in
into an overnight bedroom. 
thn Village house 82 marriml couplPsLiko tlrn 81 other !'amilies who live in with chilclrnn.
Notre Dame's married student housing 
Twenty-live families havn two or nHirn
units, tlrn Bhatis pay about $400 per 
childrnn. Of thn 3 Hi people in the Villago, month in rcnl and utilities for a living 
l 11 arc children, and l 2 of those are room, kitchen, bathroom and the two 
nnwborns. Some families of six, oft.on
bedrooms Haina lets her children, Mcha including four school-agnd childrcrn of'
and Kartikaya, use. 
both gendr.rs and Uwir parents, sham UrnThe Bhatis. who moved to the Village two-bedroom apart1111mt.
from India six Y•)ars ago, don·1 let them­
The Cripe Street /\partmont complox, aselves dwell on their tight quartnrs. 
block north of tlrn Villagn, housns mar­"We try not to think of the small space. 
rind couplns without childrnn l'or $377 toWe have too many other things to think $398 per month. The two-room, one-b1)d·about," said Bhati, a non-studnnt rusi­
room apartmnnts hold 24 couplns.
dent whose husband is a humanities 
although only 21 currently reside.
graduatn student. "We live on the small­Many familins said thny were drawn to est stipend. We try to make it nice and Notre Darnn's housing lrncausn of itscomfortable. I would think !Notre Dame! 
affordability. proximity to campus, safotycould give more facilities f'or (married I and <~ommunity.
students since it is a l'amily-oricnted uni­
/\ccording to a rnsponsr. lnttnr
versity." 
University president Fathnr Edward

Villagn Life 
Malloy wroto 0110 rnsident. thn basn rentMorn than thn streot and patch of trncs at the Village is on average $250 belowthat divide the Villago from the rest of the arna rnark•it rate. 
campus keep the administration blind to residents' needs, many said. The Village 

sec HOUSING I page 6 and the Cripe Street apartments were 

By TIM LOGAN l\,•w, hlu"r 
Ca III pus In ad 1• rs c r i ti ­1·i:t.!'d stt1d<'lll lw!rnvior in Monday morning's distur­b a 11t· ,. at 1\1 o II day a f't1• r ­noon's C:itlll!JUS l.il't> C:ou111·il 1111wti11g, passing a n•s1dntio11 railing lhn h11r11i11g Ill' lol'ts. <'oudws, du I.a(· and otl11·r com­li11stibl!'s "irn•sponsihl.-, dangProus and totally tllll'PflPrtivP or llw grf'at,~r Notr1• llamP romm1mitv." 
MPm lll'rs passl'd lh,: r1•s­
oIII ti oII al'tnr disrussing possi!JIP rourSt\S ol' action and s,•vPral diffl'r1·nl aspPt'ls or tlH' prohll'm. Mostly, lwwPv1•r, CU: m1•111IH•rs 1•xpross1•d sur­pris(•d sadn1•ss at tlw 
t'Vl'llin)(s (\Vf'lllS, 
"h's shul'king to Sl't' what st11d1•11ts do whnn tlt1•y·r.. pul in lhal situa­tion." said studPnt hoclv vicl' pr1•sidt>nt Mirha1il I' a I u m ho . " I t w o u I d ·v11 IH'l'll llit'I' if' lht•y ('Olllcf'yp polin•d t.lwmsPIV!!S, hut I g11Pss th . 'y'rp not. al I.hat !1•v1• I YPl." 
I11 ,; pn•1mn•d stat1•11wnt. 
s l ude II l h o d y p r () sid n n l Micah Murphy said thn prohlnms w1•rn causl'd by a minority of' pcopl11 prcscnl. and thal most or tho crowd, PslimatNI lwtw1wn 800 and 1.000, was com­posed of sturlnnts drawn oulsidn by the blackout and llrn commotion. 
"It appn1u·s that Urn vast majorily of llrn students w1irt> drawn 011tsid11 oitlwr hy curiosity or inability to work." Murphy said. 


Students react 
By ERICA THESING A.,sociatc News Editor 
As the campus regrouped after the student-started firns of Monday morning, reactions to student behav­ior were mixed. 
Poople failed to realize how dangerous their actions could have been, said Kevin Kiefer, a resident assis­tant in Keenan Hall who helped extinguish fires in North Quad. Kiefer emphasized that he was not upset by students running around the quads and participat­ing in behavior that would not harm anyone, but he was angry when safety was compromised. 
see REACTION/ page 4 

,, 11 0 WO Ver, SO Ille Of th 0 actions that l'ollowod tho hilU'kout wnrn i.rrPspnnsi­blc and unrollcctivc or the 
gr1rntnr stud(Jnl body." 

Council mombers gennr­al ly expressed extreme disappointmnnt with the behavior of' some students during and after the black­out. which began approximately 1 a.m. Monday when an Indiana-
see CLC I page 4 
The Observer/Job Turner 
Assistant vice president for Residence Life Bill Kirk expressed his disappointment with the actions of the student body during Monday morning's power outage. 
page·2 The Observer• INSIDE Tuesday, April 27, 1999 

¦ INStDt COLUMN 

An Ode to Adrian 
I know the end of this semester and the school year are nearing. Some people will leave this University for good, and there is one Fisher Hall senior who I would like to thank for his presence during the past year or C.R. "Teo" Teodoro two. From one West Illusrrarions Ediror Coast neck to another, this one's for Adrian Washington! 
For those who don't know Adrian Washington. an excellent example of human character, you am certainly missing out. Right now, he Jives right across the hail from me. Though we live in rooms right next to each other, we almost always meet on the quad where the token white people hang out. Through this year, Adrian (also called "Dre" by some) has taught me a little about life, love, enlightenment and happi­ness. 
One of my earliest memories of Adrian is of the time he tried to take up vampire hunting after I showed him how. Even though he wasn't very good at it, he kept trying. I recall fond memories of helping him through Castlevania as he tried to hack away at numerous enemies. He never was able to confront the dark priest Shaft or his father Dracula, but maybe we'll try again once finals are over. 
While fighting undead forces was not his forte, Adrian was still undaunted by other challenges. Adrian has tried his hand at professional football, but like myself, he was not successful. Both of us were ridiculed for our lack of football skills, but we both still had better lore of the undead than most. I remember with fondness how he would get massacred in the game field. (My exploits were also less than exem­plary.) 
Adrian Washington was even helpful dur­ing those times when I felt most desperate: finding a date for dorm dances. Despite my many campus contacts, on more than one occasion, it was almost impossible for me to find a date. Yet, when I was in need, the section pimp was there to help me! With his vast wisdom in procuring females, always he gave me food for thought and often helped me find a date. Of course, I didn't always heed his advice, instead relying on my own resources. Though I have no regrets, I can only wonder what would have happened if I actually did take Sage Washington's suggestion ... 
Yet, Adrian Washington's greatest gift to me is yet to be mentioned. He once came down to my room with a new flask of a questionable libation. It was marked as Thunder Creek brand, but we knew it by another name. Ile gave me a sip of this new elixir. and to my surprise I was taken by this new beverage. I found it better than any I had tri.ed, and now, I only partake of it. 
Adrian had a great impact on my college career. I only hope I can find another Adrian once he leaves this place. I'm not sure it's possible. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those nf the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TooAv's STAFF 

News Scene 
Chris Shipley Mike Vanegas Brad Untiedt Graphics Sports Scott Hardy 
Mike Connolly Lab Tech Viewpoint Mary Leffers Lila Haughey 
The Observer (USPS 5?9 2-4000) i, published Monday rhro11gh Friday cxcep1 during ex,1m and va(.:ation period~. The Observer is .J member of the A:..'>odatcd Pres:.. All rcpioduclion ,ights arc: rc:»erved. 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Authorities locate, identify missing students' remains 
SAN LUIS OBISPO, Calif. 

agents. county Sheriffs officials and Police have identified the remains of 
city police investigators. along with missing California Poly State University 

California 
other law enforcement agents. students Rachel Newhouse and 
Investigators found Newhouse's Aundria Crawford, found near the 
remains before 4 p.m. Friday and dis­Davis Canyon home of the case's prime 

Poly State 
covered Crawford's remains later suspect, Rex Allan Krebs. 
Friday afternoon, police said. The San Luis Obispo County Sheriff­
Krebs has not been charged for the Coroner identified both remains about 

University 
killings of Newhouse and Crawford, but 4 p.m. Saturday. 
Topham said police plan to lile charges Police made the announcement at a specifics will be available at a news in the very near future. Saturday news conference. conference this morning. He was apprehended locally on 
Authorities will not disclose the con­'"We're trained to remain profession­March 20 for a parole violation -pos­dition of the remains -identified al and objective, but this is nol your session of a simulated firearm and vio­through dental records -until forensic normal case," said Topham, whose lation of alcohol restrictions -and testing has been completed. team of investigators interviewed sev­now sits in county jail. 
"I have mixed feelings. I'm immense­eral thousand people about the cases. Newhouse, a 20-year-old Cal Poly ly sad, and at the same time very "You can't conduct this kind of case in student, disappeare.d Nov. 12, 1999, relieved," said San Luis Obispo Police public." after walking home alone from Tortilla Capt. Bart Topham, who leads the Topham will be joined at Monday's Flats restaurant in San Luis Obispo. investigation for the police. press conference by State Attorney Crawford, a 20-year-old Cuesta 
Topham would not comment if the General Bill Lockyer, the San Luis College student, was abducted from remains were buried or found inside Obispo County district attorney Gerry her Branch Streflt apartment March Krebs' residence, but said more Shea, Krebs' parole officers, FBI 12. 
¦ EAST CAROL!i.lA UNIVERSITY 

Trustee resigns over racial slur 
GREENVILLE, N.C. 
Two weeks after making a racist remark to the Cape Fear chapter of the Pirate Club in Wilmington, an East Carolina University Board of Trustees member resigned. Walter Williams resigned over the telephone to Gov. Jim Hunt Tuesday evening, Sean Walsh of the governor's office said. According to the Wimington Morning Star, on April 7 the former Pirate Club president said in an address that if the men's basketball team does not start winning with the new coach it is because of a "nigger in the wood­pile." The room, filled with nearly 150 Pirate Club mem­bers, reportedly fell silent after Williams made the com­ment. Walsh said that the governor thinks William's com­ment was inexcusable. Hunt thanked Williams for his long service on the board last night. Williams was not available for comment Sunday. Students say that such a comment calls for his resignation. 
¦ UN!VERSJTV Of HOUSTON Admissions adjusts to court decision 
HOUSTON, Texas 
When the 1996 Hopwood vs. Texas decision halted eth­nic consideration policies in higher education, the state of Texas was confronted with the affirmative action debate in a new arena -academia. With this ruling in effect, the population of students of color decreased or lay stagnant at many schools across the state. The University of Houston, however, has managed to avoid this post-Hopwood trend. University of Houston has dodged the post-Hopwood drift by continuing to find ways to attract minorities while adjusting its policies to conform to the new law. Under the Hopwood ruling, stu­dent recruitment programs were forced to change. Recruitment programs that focused on affirmative action have been expanded to include recruitment at schools with lower minority populations, but these programs have also continued to target inner-city schools. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA President ends sweatshop negotiations 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

University of Arizona President Peter Likins Sunday terminated negotiations with student protesters camped out in his office for more than 100 hours, pledging to commit the university to a revised fair-labor resolution. After exchanging proposals with student activists for five days, Likins said "the game has changed" and asserted he will no longer negotiate with protesters. "They can stay in the lobby of the seventh noor of the Administration Building until Christmas," he said. "I gave them what they asked for, and that made me real­ize this was a process of escalation." Avery Kolers, a spokesman for the University of Arizona's Students Against Sweatshops, said Likins' decision to stop exchanging resolutions with activists is a "negotiation tactic." "Whatever else is the case, we're in negotiations -that was known implicitly from the start," he said. 
¦ JAMES MmHSON UNlVEBSHY Students march for convicted killer 
HAHHISONBUHG, Va. 

More than 10,000 people came together in Philadelphia Saturday to show their support for convict­ed killer Wesley Cook, known to his supporters as Mumia Abu-Jamal. About 18 James Madison University stu­dents, including nine from the JMU chapter of Amnesty International, drove for {ive-and-a-half hours to attend the Millions for Mumia March, said sophomore Rachel Barker, president of the JMU chapter of Amnesty. Mumia was convicted in 1982 of killing Daniel Faulkner, a Philadelphia police officer on Dec. 9, 1981, according to the Grinnell Coalition: Who is Mumia /\bu-Jamal W!~b site. Mumia was sentenced to death. Mumia rnquested a new trial at a hearing in 1995 and failed. Both cases were presided over by Judge Albert Sabo, who has presided over more cases that have rnsultnd in the death penalty than any judge in the United States. 
¦ LOCAL \rVEATHEfi ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather® forecast for Jaytime conditions anu high temperatures 

Tuesday 62 46
~ Wednesday ~ 61 45
,, .... , Thursday., ~ 61 41 Friday ~ 65 42 
C 1'999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONAHY Prassurc;
Saturday ,,(f 72 46 
@©D . CJEJCJ . O .,,!,i;!\-j
t...,.... -. 

Hlgh Low Showera Rain T~slarms Flur~ies Snow~~_!_~Cloudy Cloudy
~ ....~ .... 1,r-~..,...v;·_., -~\;' 
Via Assoe1ated Pr11ss 

Atlanta 74 62 Las Vegas 84 60 Portland 56 40 Baltimore 74 47 Memphis 80 62 San Fransisco 61 48 

Boston 70 49 Milwaukee 58 43 St. Louis 71 59
9:.Q,~q~Q {) ~ u 
Chicago 68 48 New York 70 49 Tampa 88 68
ShowtJfs T-storms Rain Flurries Snow /Ca Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Des Moines 57 52 Philadelphia 75 48 Vermillion 61 47 
Vfa Assoosred Pt?SS GraphiesNei 

Tul'sday, April 27, 1999 The Obsaver • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
¦ °30ARD OF 1"RLISTEF.S 


Board outlines renovations, calllpus i01proveIDents 
l\y COLLEEN McCARTll'l 
'.-1,1111r i\1,1ry\ blit1H 
Tht• Sainl Marv's Hoa.rd of' Tr11s11,ns approvt>;I t.ht' propos­als hy l'Prl'ornrn Consulting lo rt•1111v11IP campus J'acilit.it's in ordt>r to improvP st,11d,\11L st•r­virt•s and n•1'rPalin11 spacPs. 
Plans inclu<iP rPvamping arPas Slll'h as thn first floor of 
I.P Mans 11 all, A11gnla Ath ltitir l·'arility and llw Nohln hunily l>i11i11g Ilall. 
"ThP board cln1:idPd that t.hn ovnall goal is to rPinvnst in Pxisting l'arililit~s allhougli this may ine'luclr• SOl!lf' lll'W COil· slructiun," ColkgP prPsiclnnl Marilou i-:ldrnd said. ··-r1w goal is 1.o 11s1• nxistiiig building's as tlllll'h iLS possibl1•." 
l'P1.·r11r111a pn•s('lllPd LhH plan Lo {hi' Board of' Trnstnns lust WP1•kP1HI. Thi• l'l'.Sllll or infor­mal.ion gatlwrnd oy Lhn com­pany during )<)1)8 and l<)<J<), thP plan indudnd facl'ls ol' thrPti prnlimirwry scpnarios pr1•s1·11l1•d Lo thl' CollPg1> in Mnrl'h ro11111u111ilv. 
"Thi• Board ol' :l'rustecs gnn­••rally approv(id what l'Prl'orma had proposnd but tlwy madn soml' minor 
rhangiis," Eldred said. 
\1orn possiblP campus improv1inw11ts approved by tlw board includn llrn addition ol" a swi111mi11g pool and lrnttnr rnnnational f'acilitfos lo Angela /\thlntic Fai:ility. 

enhannis studen l llaggar Collngn 
'THESE ARE THE MAJOR space by having it Cnntnr will bn rcno­throughout campus.''

DIRECTIONS WE ARE 
vatPd to house Besides tho l'irst 
GOING WITH CAMPUS

administrative lloor of LP Mans llall, 
offices. clnspitc one IMPROVEMENTS, BUT THINGS social space will be , Perform a scenario provided in Angnla that suggosted rnov­CAN ALWAYS CHANGE IN ANY Athletic Facility and 
ing thn offices to ,_______."'---__, PROJECT.' th c cl in in g ha 11. 
llolv Cross llall. 
"WP dPfinitnlv lis­tnrwd lo all tho ·com­nrn n ts that camo back, and thn OV(•r­wh(dming rPsponsn was that the administrative oflin•s should not be movnd l.o lloly Crosi-; Ilnll." Elcl red said. 
Ho nova lions to Urn Nob In Family Dining llall will include tlrn addition of spar.e for cam­pus rota.ii facililies including a bookslon•, l.ravPI agtrncy. post of'lit:(' and a g1111eral store, 
Although thorn had boen a push !'or thr~ co11structio11 of a studpnt cnntnr, Eldrncl said the board decided that creating u 

single building as a studeHt dispersn Lhn space l.hroughout cPnter went against tlrn ils campus rallwr than puliing all objcctivos. the mcnting spar,n in onn "There are two reasons tho building," she said. "This deci­reasoning shil'lnd rcgardi11g sion does not diminish llw stu­dPnt cnnter kind or spacH. Hather il 
Additional rood scir­\'ice f'acilitiPs might hri MARILOU Ht.DRED added to Angela and 
Pf/i:SIDENT, SAINT MARY'S CuL!.h.GE Le Mans. 
building a new student cen­ter," Eldred said. "First, we talked about the ncod to enhancn a sense of community throughout the campus, Tho point of this is trying to build community on campus and you don't have to lrnvP just orrn place to go to do that" 
"Tho second reason is thnrn is a great need for large and small gathering space all over campus. That is why we would 

TAX ADVANTAGED SOLUTIONS FROM TlAA-CREF 

UNFORTUNATELY, TIDS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. 
Every year, a lot of people make a huge mistake on their taxes. They wind up sending Uncle Sam money they could be saving for retirement. Fortunately, that's a mistake you can avoid with SRAs-tax-deferred annuities from TIAA-CREF. SRAs not only ease your current tax bite, they offer an easy way to build retirement income-especially for the "extras" that your pension and Social Security benefits may not cover. Because your contributions are made in pretax dollars, you pay less in taxes now. And since earnings on your SRAs are tax 
"You have to try to 

picture the first l1oor of Le:-.tans in an entirely dif'­fernn! wav," Eldred said. 
Stacy D0 avis, student reprn­senlative lo Urn Board of' Trustees, shared Eldred's sen­timents. 
"Students wern behind the concept or a new studPnt cen­ter, but I think Pcrforma took our needs into account in their suggestion," Davis said. "The servkes we am asking f'or rlo not necnssarily have to bo con­lined to one building but com­bined throughout campus." 
The board also adopted Performa's suggestion lo cm­ate apartment-style housing on campus. 
"At the moment, the plan would be to build two build­ings at the corner of' Madnleva drive with 100 or so lrnds but configured into apartment­style spacn," Eldred said. 
The two buildings will bo built in phases to accommo­date growing enrollment, she said. 
The accepted changes will be incorporated into a report to be presented to llrn Administrative Council next week and at a Colltign-wide 
communiLy mnoting on May 4. Skdches will hi' posl(id in a contra! location, and l'Prl'orma will welcornti l'omnwnls from students, f'aulty and staff. 
Othf'r items.includnd in tlrn report ani academic renova­tions lo classrooms and faculty offir.Ps in Mad1deva Hall, Sci1rncn llall and Moreau Cent.1\r l"or tlrn 1\rts, updating ol' rnsidnnce hall rooms in Ln Mans llall, Hngina !lull ancl lloly Cross llall, cnntralizing shipping and rncdving and improving lighting. signs and parking campus-widn. 
The plan also calls f'or pro­viding morn green spacn for outdoor aclivilins and clla11­nnling traffic to llw perinrntPr of campus. 
"Thnso am the major dime­lions wn am going wil.h cam­pus irnprovemnnts. but things 
can. alw,~ys, change 1~s i1~.,1~11y 1wo.1ect, EldrPd said. I ho Pnrformn procnss has bunn vnry good and inclusivn. I think Lhc ad111i11istrntio11 a11cl Perl'orma havn been vcrv rnsponsiv<) to all f'nedback·. Any process like this nrnans a 
lot of compromisn in coming up with tho best plan for tlw futurn of Saint Mary's." 
A time frame for tlrn projncls as well as a d11lailc>d Ii nancial component will be prnsnnl1•d to the Board of Trustnns at their .June retrnat. 
"A lot of what we will Im able to do dnponds on fundraising." said Eldrnd. 
The board also approvPd a five perc1rnt increase in tuition, room and board. Tlw incrnase will raisn tuition lo $16,994, board to $2,:{!i<i and room costs will rangn from $2,400 to $4,(i00. 
"The tuition incrnasn is an $810 incr11asn, and wn WPl'P happy to h() ah In lo kc n p it under $17,000," Eldrnd said. 
The only leaal way to break Parietals: Join The Observer staff! 
deferred, your money works even harder for you. 
Today, we offer other before-and after-tax financial solutions, including IRAs and mutual funds. They're backed by the same investment exper­tise, low expenses, and personal service that have made TIAA-CREF the choice ofAmerica's educational and research community. 
Why write off the chance for a more rewarding retirement? Stop by your benefits office or call us at I 800 842-2776 and find out how TIAA-CREF SRAs can help you enjoy happier returns. 

Gotnewsf

SOMMER JOBS IN 
l-5323





IRELAND 
CALu 

1,;.800-833-3~87 
University Laundry and Tanning
WEBSITE: 

c.oww.globalata,:,::.com 
1813 South Bend Ave. Campus Shoppes Shopping Center 

Ac:commobatfon puovfbeb 
Call us Orl appl;y 


tb,wagb the web 
FREE Dryers all of
rzfgbt awa;y! 
May!JJI 





RESIDENTS OF OREGON: Need help getting your stuff home? 
Call MATT CLARK at 634-2174 
for a helping hand. 
www.tiaa-cref.org 

ii Ensuring the futuff for those who shape it."" 
TlAA-CRE.F individual nnd lns1irution.J Servicea, lnc., dil'itribqtes CREF n:rtilk.atesa11d intt':re1ds in the TIAA Real Eatate Account. For rnon!! compl,:1~ informatio11, including charge• and expcn~s, call I l:100 84:..!-273.3, ~xt. 5509, for CREFand TIAA Real Eatltc Account prospectusea, Read them carefull,.v before you invest or send money. 
12198 

page-4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 27, 1999 



Reaction 
continued from page 1 
"When I saw someone on the fourth floor of Zahm !Halli throw firecrackers at the crowd, I became irate," he said. "I think what bothers me is that this could have been a lot worse." 
Kiefer said that if the power outage and subsequent fires had occurred on a Saturday night when students were intoxicated, the damage may have been much worse. 
Rex Rakow. director of Notre Dame Security/Police, agreed that the situa­tion could have progressed to some­thing more serious. lie explained that students did not consider the dangers associated with the fires they were lighting, such as the location of gas lines. He said that the wind could have easily carried debris and started fires elsewhere. 
"I was quite surprised at our students. that they would be part of tl1is. J thought at other schools maybe. but not here. It was pretty stupid and juvenile," llakow said. "I thought that it was a !ow moment in what I viewed as our student behavior over the years." 
The four people working Safewalk Monday morning also witnessed stu­dents compromising safety, said Adrian Cuellar. Safewalk coordinator. Cuellar, who was among the four working Sunday, said that he was disappointed with the student behavior. 
"Initially I thought it was something harmless. but in terms of the fires, I thought it was ridiculous," he said "In a nutshell. I was really disappointed. I was really upset." 
Cuellar witrn~ssed students throwing bottles, rocking police cars, racing golf carts and obstructing fire trucks. lie said that some students were upset with the fire trucks for failing to slow down as they approached the crowds, hut Im added that the students didn't leave the Fire DHpartmm1t with any choice. 
"Thn students didn't really givP thorn aay option," he said. "It was gelling out of hand." 
One student who took part in the lire lighting said that he a11d his fritrnds were looking for something more fun Lhan tile rirnworks Lhey watched otln:r students li,ght. 
"I had been planning on hurning my loft in the quad for quite a while and 
this was the perfect chance.... I wish I had lit a couch on fire. I'm a little bit jealous of the South Quadders," he said. referring to the couch fires reported near Fisher I-lall, Alumni Hall and the Knights. of Columbus building. 
The student. who spoke on the condi­tion of anonymity. was not especially impressed with efforts by Security to stem the tide of activity across campus and doubts that he will be caught by the Office of Residence Life, which is inves­tigating the events of Monday morning. 
"I know for a fact that they don't have me on videotape lighting a fire, I hope," he said. 
Other students ventured outside to investigate the noise they heard from inside their dorms. 
"We saw the couch on fire and we were shocked," said freshman Stacie Green. "I thought it was pretty funny because there were all these students around, but only one cop." 
Green and her friends returned inside for a while, but went back out when they noticed a fire behind Alumni Hall. She said that Security officers were threatening arrnsts, but many students ignored them. 
"People just stayed there and as soon as you heard there was another fire somewhere, people just look off run­ning," she said. 
Sophomore Danny Flynn was working on a Spanish composition in the LaFortune Student Center computer lab when the power went out. Uncertain about what was happening, he left LaFortune for his dorm, Sorin Hall. 
"I proceeded over to Sorin where great cheers and jeers wflrc coming," he said. "I thought 'Whatever this is, it's going to be fun.'" 
Flynn, who roamed the quads for about an hour and a half. said that some of the activity was out of hand. 
"ll was in the i;pirit of fun but some people got carried away," he said. "Once tho fire got going peoplo started running around for anything to put in. That's when the clothes started coming 
off." 
flail rectors and residence assistants wern Urn lirst to respond to the crowds, Flynn said. He nntod that students dumped water and other substances on tho ser,urity officers who responded to the nre behind Sorin llall. 
Mike Hnmanchek contributed to this report. 
said. University officials will also study videotapes of the events to identify

CLC 
miscreants. Kirk pledged that anyone 
identified in conjunction with illegal

continued from page 1 
behavio~ will be "dealt with very Michigan power line belonging to severely. American Electrical Power was par­"These are criminal actions that 
tially severed. Electricity was restored 
some of the people did," he said. within the hour. The cause of the out­age is nut yet known, but there is spec­In other CLC news: 
ulation that a racoon chewed into t.ho • Members debatfld a resolution call­line, according tu director of University ing f'or greater protection in du Lac of Security Rex academic free-Rakow. dom and clari­Leaders 
fication of club probation
expressed 'IALWAYS HELD OUT THIS disgust with appoals. Thti
HOPE THAT STUDENTS 
resolution was of fire-start­AT NOTRE DAME WERE DIF-inspired by the ing students. recent proba­the behavior 
fl:RENT, BUT I WAS VERY,
"I thought tion hearings it was pretty 
VERY DISAPPOINTED.' for the disgraceful." 
Women's 

said off-cam­Resource BILL KlllK Centf\r and bud
pus co-presi­de nt Brian 
ASSISTANT \IJCH PflE'SfDENT FOR RE'Sfl)l:.'NCE LIFE been sent to Higney the CLC by the "Students 
Academic who went out and started l'inis showed 
Council. 

The motion was tabled until next Fire Department but also to their fol­disrespect not only to Security and the 
snnrnster to miablo furt.lwr study of the low students." 
issue. It was criticized for being over­

Assistant vice president for broad and dealing with individual dis­Residence Lil"e Bill Kirk echoed senti­ciplinary situations. Proponents ments he expressed at the disturbance 
argued that procRdural clarification Monday morning. 
would makfl the hearing process easier "I always held out this hope that stu­
for students to understand. dents at Notre Dame were different, • The Office of Student Affairs will but I was very, very disappointed," 
conduct du J.uc revisions this summer. Kirk said. "This was unreal to me." 
The Council unanimously passed a res­Several students were cited bv olution asking them to review proce­Security during the disturbance, and 
dural clarity in "flstablishing, review­their identification will be turned over 
ing and the appeal process of the sta­to the Office of Residence Life, Kirk 
tus of student organizations." 

Only two more issues of The Observer this year! But we will return ... 
Join us in a prayer of lament for the 






@jif§ ffiJ 

"W'ednesday 7:30pm 
@ 
tl"J.e vVar .Memorial (stonehenge) 
rain location: I<.eenan/Stantord Chapel 

-lnte~hMm 
0MPUS 
~ht f , 1ii )yer

MINISTRY 

Tuesday, 1\pril 27, ]()l)<) COMPJLED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRF SERVJCES page 5 
¦ 
Former prime minister faces sodomy charges 
KU/\L\ I.UMl'LiH. Malaysia 

Malaysia's l'ornwr dPJJ11ty prinw minisl(~r. rnnvirted L,vo W(11•ks ago of' nirruption. now 111t1s1. stand trial 011 onP count or sodomy. llw altorrwy gi•1wr,tl said Tw•sday. l'rosPr11tnrs claim :\mrnr· llirallim had il!Pgal s,'x with mon mid w111111•11 anti llll'II fon:1•d policr\ lo covnr up hi" rnisd1·1·ds lligh Court .Juclgi\ t\lldul Walrnb 1'1it11il said ,di sidPs would n•rnml'IW May 4 to dl'll'rmi1w thl' trial datP. /\ttoriwv (;1\!ll'ral \loltt:1r .-\bdull;d1 told th,• «·mirl tlm't 11ros1~cu­tio11 <HT l'iiur rnon· :,;odomv diargcs and Olli\ ,·harg(• ,11' 1·01-r11pti1111 woiild lw postporwd. \'\'lw11 askPd to ,,111.l•r his .p!Pa, Anwar n•pliPd. "!\01 gi1ill_v." I'" pausPcl and add,,d. "l\lalir.irn1s prosPnJlion" ,\11wnr ,,·as sn11t1,111•prl lo six :,·P11rs in prison Parli,•r Ihis month aftnr ajudg<' 1'11u11d him guilty till four counts ol' abusn of' 
pOWl'I'. 
New ruler assumes throne 
KUMAS!, c;lmna 

Carri«'d through tlw slrP<'ts by a squadron ol' royal IH'ar·prs. tlH~ incoming rulPr of c;1i1111a·s most important kingdom was «'il<•Pr1·d by thousands of' his people on Monday. his rnronatio11 day. Dress,,(! in hright-col11r1\d kf'nlt• cloth. Otuml'uo Osni T11lu II sl'I out Monday morning from his palarP in Kumasi. thP royal snat of thn Ash .. :li kingdom. with 20 men in black waist-cloths holding alort his sedan chair. Thousands ol' pnoplP jamrrn\d the strnPts, thn halconi<•s and U1€• rooftops of Kumasi to watch tlw rww king -a 49-ym,r-old London­trai1wd accountant and busirrnssman who has workPd in Ghana. E11ropt> and the United Stall's -go past. Later, al l<rnst 40,000 jamuwd tlw Kumasi stadium to watch on a hlisl<\ring hot day as rww kin!{-1\lect. covered in a heavy smock with lt\athnr charms and arnuli•ts, iirc\d tlm~e shots with a musket ­proving his ability to command and load the ;\shallli nation. 
City sues over illegal firearms 
DETHOIT 

DPLroit and its county sued the gun industry for m<>rl' than $800 million Monday for "the havoc \\T<mkPd" by il!Pgal firearms. Thci law­suits wnrn brought against 35 manufacturnrs, distributors and SPl!nrs. Wayne County, of which IlPlroit is a part. snparately sued the industry. ThP city said thn industry should pay for "tliP havoc wrnaked on the city ol' DPlroit by illegal handguns and other firParms that haw lrnnn carn!l\ssly and rnck­lPssly sold lo individuals who should not be armed in our society." The lawsuits did not spncilY tlw amount of' clanmgns, but lawyers l'or tlH\ city and county said they would seek al l1\ast $400 million nach. "The industry prot'its from the\ assaults. mairnings and killings on tlw strnt'ls of our city and county," Dl'troit Mayor Dnnnis /\rdwr said. 
S&P 500: Compositl' 1J60.04 Volume:

10718.59 +319 8!!5,433,640 
VOLUME LEADERS 

SONIMX HSIU ) Cltl91 4 S¥Mi91 D?C:I 
·•i,I· ·J· T~'.M" TN F'tlftE •17-76 tC,,25/JO .lJ.75 
I ,IH TNT'i. ttro~ +i.,ll. 6:i 10.6900 lo 4,4 
lli-LI 1·, 1Hl'UTr:t­m:u. .4, 2t . I,:!3100 i.l-1.iH 
M!C1l1. q·r ,·OHP MS!o"'f •~. l l .-2.oooc Ar:1.00 
ATt.'i /'f1'1{r 'I' ,9t 49SO t";,2. 8fl 
-'HER l)l;!,(Nt; ACL. , 52 +H, OOOU lfd, 00 
l tiMPJ,fJ , ilMt'!l'Ti-:k CPO 1:12 +f'l,Rl5;r1 2'\,IJ4 
•<·c·H r·ur.~• C"OM,f; , 90 10.74·,s 26.56 
INTf.L CMH' IN':"C . H, ,.:_,6'JOC 6•L'.i.4 
<iR"C!.F. 1·nn1• OR('I, 92 d .J/162 211.!59 

AFP Pholo 

Littleton residents hug each other Monday as they visit the makeshift memorial built in Clement Park to remember those who died in the Columbine High School shooting April 20. Thirteen students and one teacher died following a shooting by two gunmen in the school compound. The two gunmen committed suicide during their rampage, police said. 


Littleton remembers slain teacher 
Assoc:t,\Tim P1rnss my lifo," she said. "Mr. Sanders, I to tnll you he was a hero bef'orn that. thank you." He impacted so many of our stud1rnts LITTLETON. Colo. Sanders, 47, was the only teacher to and teachers." 
l{emcmbering him as a friend and a die in the rampage, in which 12 stu­Chris Black, a former student who hero. an overflow crowd of dents were also slain, and the two was nn the track team said Sanders 2,500 people said goodbye today to shooters committed suicide. "taught mr, how lo run the hurdles." William "Dave" Sanders. the When gunfire and explosions echoed "I fell down quitci a fow times but he Columbine lligh School through the school cafeteria, Sanders was always there to pick mn up," tfmcher and coach who died while try­jumped on tables. shouting for stu­Black said. ing to save students' lives during last dents to get out. He ran through the And Kris Macauley, the assistant week's rampage. halls. herding students to safety. basketball coach for the !{iris team 
One by one. his students -past and Shot twice in the chest, Sanders that Sanders coached. said. "I think present -walked to the front of the staggered into a second-floor class­Dave is up there playing basketball." Trinitv Christian Center to remember room, where students tore off their T­"He's running and gunning and hav­his smile. dedication and sacrifice. shirts and pressed them to his ing lots of fun," said Macauley. 
"r truly believed he saved my life wounds, and covered him with blan­As mourners listened to the testimo­and many other people's," said kets. nials, they clutched hands and wiped Lindsay Dowling, one of Sanders' busi­They told him how important he was tears. Students gathered in small 
ness class students, who was in the and tenderly showed him pictures of groups, embracing each other. Most in school cafeteria last Tuesday when his wife and three daughters from his the crowd wore the now-familiar blue she heard Sanders yelling for people wallet. But he told them: ''I'm not and silver ribbons. the school's colors. to get down. going to make it. Tell my girls I love The funeral l'ollowod Sunday's 
Student Laurel Salerno, who also them." memorial service in which current was in the cafeteria, didn't even wait Columbine principal Frank De and former students also remembered for his shouts. She said the second she Angelis said Sanders' selflessness as a Sanders' dedication and devotion. 
saw the serious expression on the usu­coach and teacher prepared him for "Ile was a really exceptional coach," ally good-naturnd teacher, "I his courage during the shooting. a teary-eyed Stephanie Gilbert, 34. ducked underneath the table." "We hear what a hero Dave was on said of the man who· guided her cross­
"I just want to thank him for saving Tuesday," De/\ngelis said. "But I need country team 15 years ago. 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 




Red Crossvisi(s~erican captives 
AsSOCIATED PRESS the touchy issue of enfotc., shown onSerb TV after its mission in Kosovo after ing itwith an t\driatrc t1aval their March 31 capture receiving security assur­BELGRADE blockade to be worked out n(;)ar the Macedonia border ances from Milosevic. 
Nearly a month after by Nt\JO. .... ·••.•··· ....··· · < > with bruised faces and cuts. White House spokesman Yugoslav forces captured . foierna.tionl'\l. Conrr:uittce43 Tb~ Red.Cross had repeat­Joe Lockhart said Monday's three lJ:S. soldiers .along a. . of ,me lled Gross (!CRG) ' adlfbeen denied access to meeting came "25 days disputed border, the Red .Chi9f C9rntllp Somtn~tuga. :the $.Idle.rs •. who are late" and ropresentod a Cross was allowed to see .gave no information aboµt , · believed to be held in or "bare minimum" of what the men Monday, but the captured $r)ldiet$'<;oµ\ near Belgrade; internat.ional law requires chances of.their release dition hvt said a,, Ued {.:r0$s' . "twas able to talk to them in terms of acc(iss to war anytime soon were consid­dor,torand a delegate would> only a few minutes," captives. He said the threti eted slim. · pay anoth~r.visitto tpem, ·Sornmaruga said. "We "appear to be in good condi­
West0rn officials cited Tuesday, After meeting looked into each olher·s tion." critical comments by a Milosevir;; •.. though, .· Jt(! ' eyes rind. shook hands very Those held captive am Yugoslav lender, mean, expressed pesstmlsm th~( wu.rinly." Staff Sgt. Andrew Hamiroz, while, as evidence of the they would be freed before So.rn:maruga said "it was 24, of Los Angeles; Spc. first crack in President the war ends. . ... p.ot ppssible to have a fu11-Steven Gonzales, 21, of Slobodan Milosevic's reginie "1nterriatfonal · buma,riita.r• · fledged JCRC visit in a\;cord Huntsville, Texas; and Staff sine~ the NATO air Mm­ian law S!l-)'S prisonerf6f •· with the provislons ofthe Sgt. Christopher Stone, 25, paign In. J(osowS hogan w&r would heJiboi-a,t.ed at ·Goiieva Convention·• but ofSmitl1s Crook, Mich. March 24. .the. end 9factive hosiilitie$) .. that. he. had given . the men When told the Red Cross 
And the European Uoi(,n Regrottahly, We ar~, tlO'tat .·• ietters from thelr. families had seen his son, Stono's tightened economic, sahc­-thl~ ppin(at the ~oment,"' ··Mdpaperfo.write back. father, Jim Stone of Avoca, tions and banned,fuel ship-• Sommarugasaid. .· ··Sommaruga also said the Mich., said, ''Yippee! That's ments to Yugoslavia bttt left ·· The U.S. svhli¢r$ Wete: lCI'lCWou.ld workto reopen absolutely wonderful news." 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 27, 1999 
Housing 
continued from page 1 
"It looked the safest and the cheapest here," sai.d Andrea Feay. a Graduate Student Union (GSU) representative. "Plus, the Midwest has a cheaper cost-ol'­l ivi ng int'lex, which helps.... There were other children. which was real important to me, too." 
When graduate sludent Claudio Vasconcelos was moving from Brazil, living at CripP Street was the easiest option for him and his wife. 
"When you come from abroad, you don't have the connections," he said. "You go where the University sets you up." 
The Village neighborhood is an added bonus for lhose adjusting to Lheir new homes. 
"When you move in here, your neighbors do everything for :1-ou," said Thorrodur Bjarnason, a graduate st11dcnt from Iceland. "They roally helped us, telling us where to get groceries or how to get our driver's license. The informing community is so strong." 
Active Responses 
Since a 1995 report to tl1e Roard of Trustees from the GSU, which described roaches, flood­ed basements. chipped paint and dangerous playground cquip­mrrnt, the Village has been revamped. 
"Over the past several years, the University has spent approxi­mateIv $1.3 million on the University Village," Malloy said in his response letter to Bjarnason. 
Apartments received new car­pet, fresh paint, repaired cup­boards, air conditioning and new heating units. In addition. $25,000 was spent to replace single-pane. drafty windows, which caused residents' winter electric bills to skyrocket. 
A major upgrade was the Father Beichner Community Center, built two years ago. 
The center provides space for weekly meetings. birthday par­ties. Mass, music lessons and English as a Second Language classes. Residents also can use four computers and a printer in the center's lab. 
"In the time I have lived at the 
University Village, I have noticed 
positive changes in how much 
more the University administra­
tion is hearing the united voice 
of the Village residents," said 
Feay, a resident or two years. 
"That's probably due to effort 
from both sides." 
Shadowed by the Dome 
Despite recent improvements, denied requests for better living conditions leave some feeling ignored by and frustrated with the school they pay about $20,800 per year to attend. 
While mailboxes are in the community center, resi.dents must pick up their mail at the campus post office. In June, mail delivery will bPgin at the Village -a change residents have anticipated for almost two years. 
"It takes maybe cme-and-a-half years to get it to the right peo­ple," said 8jarnason's wife Dyrleif Bjarndottir, who has lived in the Village for three years with her hu:.band and two children, "then another year to get it to the administration for them to say yes.... ThPy would prefer it if we would not ask." 
When they do ask, residents often can be disappointPd with the answers. 
Bjarnason wrote to Malloy, asking for, among other things, a fence (which now has been approved), more sidewalks, ResNct and changns in rent reg­ulations. Malloy denied all of these requests. 
When Bjarnason walks around · Notre Dame's campus, he said he can't help but qmistion where the University's priorities stand. 
"Mallov's tone !in lhe letler) was pretty much saying it's too expensive," he said, "but then vou look at the criss-cross of' sidewalks around campus.... It's an absolute wonderland. You can see the gap in their talk of family and Catholic values and the needs of families and what they do for us." 
Bjarnason pointed out that the five to 10 percent annual rent increases are jumps unmatched by the slower stipend raises, estimated at around 2.5 percent. 
Many graduate students rely on the stipends, which are set according to factors like families' needs and students' fields of study, to pay rent, utilities and to buy food and clothing. 
"The idea of students being parents doesn't click [with administrators]. The idea of graduate students doesn't click," said Bjarnason. 
International families could 
especially benefit equal stipends 
and rent. Many do not qualify for 
work visas and because none is 
eligible for Medicaid, which 
many American residents use, 
the international families often 
go without health insurance. 
"There's no way of doing it; it's 
too expensive," said Bjarndottir, 
who, like other residents, 
receives $500 per academic year 
from the University to use at 



Commencement Mass 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart Thursday, April 29 



Saint Joseph Medical Center. "We just cross our fingers that nobody falls down and breaks their leg." 
Although these financial strains were brought before Malloy, he replied that changing rent only for married students would be unfair, "Notre Dame cannot insulate one stu­dent group from economic reali­ties while asking o~l~ors to_ pay,, the nsmg prices, he wrote. 

Bjarnason con­tinued a thrne­ye<1r debate, ask­Tt1e Observer/Kevin Dalum ing for ResNct Raina Bhati, a non-student resident from India, knitted a sweater in the two-bedroom installation in tho apartment she shares with her husband and two teenage children at University Village. 
apartments. Malloy denied it, qunstioning residents' desire for wiring. 
For Bjarnason, however, there is no question. Nobody, he said, needs the home con­nection more than graduate students with families. 
"Sometimes you need a sitter just to go to campus to use it," he said. "They don't under­stand, The golf course has [RcsNctl. but we don't." 
Bhati, too, questioned the University's bureaucracy. "I look and sec they have a new gigantic bookstore; it's very posh. This apartment is empty," she said, scanning her living room's sparse furniture and her bright paintings hung on the walls. "It takes two or three years for them to get things together. It's a hard life here." 
Building Upward 
The University's hands-off approach may be partly explained by the Village's self­sufficiency, suggested Scott Kachmarik, director of Student Residences. 
"It's an area that's had a unique relationship with the University," he said. "The resi­dents arc very self-sustaining ... part by choice and part that the complex was built with [Housing and Urban Development[ funds to be a self-supporting place." 
A way to better fold the Village into campus life may be to employ a full-time staff. Kachmarik said he is not sure how this would be received by the residents. 
"Up until recently, it was, 'Leave us alone. We don't want Big Brother here.' They still want to be left alone, but they want their share of the cake," he said. "Residents need to see that to get some services they're going to have to give up some of their freedoms." 
This would not be a problem for residents like Feay if it meant services that school's like Cornell University provide, such as childcare and exercise classes. 
"We try to have things on hand. Right now, we're so 
dependent," said Feay, whose third child is due in October. "Having a University staff on hand might enhance lif'n here." 
Most recently. another step was taken to connect the Village, Cripe Street and Notre Dame's main campus. At the corner of Douglas !load and the path leading into the Village, workers replaced an old wood­en sign with a brick concrete marker, recognizing the mar­ried housing apartments. 
"People are getting attention out here now," Feay said. ".Just now, we're getting a sign out front that looks nice. The whole University looks groat except for the Village. The sign recog­nizes us as part of the cam­pus." 
Bhati said she hopes that the sign is not the end of the progress she has seen at the Village. 
"It's a wonderful place," she said. "We'd like to take back wonderful mPmories from here. I wish they could take time to sit down and think about this." 


7, . 
I 
~ 
r_ 
/ 

l'kli(]f'T·-"""R °E-DJ' A--, '1.-,('C-:--y,-,~ 
,~~-' ~ I ~__j~ ~ ...21:~JL~ .'. / ~@ 
Uoo iLLIHrQ;IS""CHlCAJ30 
Tuesday, April 27, 1999 Gates open at 6:00 p.m. Game starts at 7:00 p.m. 
Jake Kline Field at the Eck Baseball Stadium On the Notre Dame campus 
Come to the only FREE Notre Dame baseball game of the season 
All are invited 
• 
The first 200 people to arrive will receive a FREE adidas T-shirt. 

• 
An additional 300 t·shirts and caps will be given during the game. 

• 
Concession stands will be open or bring your own food and tailgate in our grass area inside baseball park -no alcohol. 

• 
Get FREE gifts and prizes by participating in all of the activities before and during the game, everyone will walk away with something. 

• 
If you wish to donate $1 at the game for a Notre Dame sponsorship ($1700) for th£ Avon 3-day cancer surviver walk in Chicago, J!.ine i 8-20. l99S-. ;;2..1::2 fe.2/ fre£ t1J do so at ~he de,;;_ 


• 
Parents can come to the game and learn more information about breast cancer. 

• 
Kids can come to the game to see two tough teams battle it out on the diamond. 

• 
Representatives from Zeneca pharmaceuticals and other pharmaceutical companies will answer questions anyone may have about breast cancer and the products available to treat and prevent it. 

• 
Representatives from St. Joseph's and Memorial Hospital specializing in breast cancer will be available to answer questions about breast cancer research and development. 


~ -------­
Tuesday, April 27, 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS p.igt: 7 

Moran disputes Cahill's 'Irish' 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
New, Writl'r 
TIH· Irish do not cks1irve as nrnrh cn-dil as thPy ar1~ givf'n in Tom Cahill's highly ar('.laimcd book "I low the Irish Snvtirl Civilization," said philos­11phy prof1•ss11r Dnrmol Monrn i11 a ltlclllrc prns1!11tcd by the Snitl' Musl'Utn of /\rt on Monday. 
··Nol in tlw s,rnsP that they 1-tavo insi){hls lhal W('l"n avail­ahl1· in classical artif"acts ­tlwy WPl"ll cunitors," Moran said. "Tlw quPstion is what was consPrvnd hy Uw Irish, not savPd." 
,\lthough Moran considon•d llw hook to lw "wnll writt11n." lw obsl'rvnd that Cahill "pays 111i attention to Lill' growth ol' t lw Byzan Ii Ill' t'm pi rci -a rnon• apprnpriatn titln is 'llow t ht' Iris h Su v,id \V tl st!l r n (:ivilization."' 
"C1-ltir In-land was outside th1• spline of Homan i11flu­1i111·,•," hn said. TracPs or l!oman poltnry and coins havP lwl'll found, hul LIH•rp is "110 Pvick11<·1· of' an1· real militarv, !Pgal or polilir1tl Homan orct1­paLio11." Moran ohs,!rv,id. 
Tlw i11trocl11rlio11 and l'loui-­ishing of' C:hrbtianity on the isle during tlw llark t\gns is an issul' of 1•xtnime importanc11, Irish church developed withoutai:rorcling lo both Moran and 
martyrdom, which was a fea­

Cahill. 
ture of Latin Christianity," he

"It is quite Pxtraor<linary Lhat 
said. "The Irish developed a

il took on so quickly. Thern is 
martyrdom of their own which111i n•al oxplanation as to why 

cons.isled of exile. Groups

Christianity took hold," Moran bound by kinship and marriagesaid. 
saw isolation as death."

A missionary movement, This exile led to a hermit
Irish monasticism valued lnl­movement in the sixth and sev­
t1•rs and !earning, Mor an 
enth centuries, Moran said.

1ixplainml to tlw audinncn. 
"Monks would set sail with­

"llw f'igun1 of' thn leanwd, out maps or provisions and go
wisl' 1wrs11n is sonrnlhing that 
wlrnrcv(ir it was that GodCl'!tir culture recognized and 

would bring them -it testedPmulatml," Im said. This may 

thHir faith, and as a result the

lw why th,~ Irish am credited 
missionaries were sot up,"

with saving l'.l!rlain asp11cls ol' Moran said.
fivilizatinn. 
The missionaries wore where"01w of' Cahill's points that I 

many aspects of civilization

think is accurnl11 is that tlw 


All-Star Comics aml Cards Atria Salon Barnaby's Family Inn Bonnie Doon Ice Cream Burger King Castle & Company Hair Studios Chili's Grill & Bar The Copy Shop -Lafortune Student 
Center Cosimo & Susies 'A Bit of Italy' Dick's Sporting Goods Drive and Shine Car Care Center Elminger Florist Emporium ResLauram Emerald Cut Salon and Day Spa Fiesta Hair and Tanning Fortune House Hana Yori of Japan Hi-Speed Auto Wash 
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who have supported its student caller incentive program. 
wr,rc conserved, according to Moran. There, the Irish pro­duced the first treatises on the responsibility of rulers, collect­ed canon law and "preserved lhe knowledge of Greek and Latin languages when they were nearly lost on the conti­nent," he said. 
"We have to piece together tho importance of Irish contri­butions from their presence in tho background -as teachers and copiers of books, for exam­ple," Moran said. 
Without a doubt, according to Moran, who is visiting from University College Dublin, "the Irish did save the Celtic her­itage." 
K's Grill & Pub 
Kinko's The Copy Center 
Michael & Co. Salon MichaelAngelos "The Event Company" 
Michiana Paintball 
Old Country Buffet 
Osco Drug Store #421 
Papa Vino's 
Patricia Ann Florist 
Quizno's Classic Subs 
Ritter's Frozen Custard Rocco's Restaurant 
Salon Artistry 
Soccer House 
South BenJ Silver Hawks 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra 
Suzanne's Floral Union Station 

Project to promote cancer awareness 
By ERIN PIROUTEK 
News Wriccr 
While many Notre DamP, stu­dents frantically write papers and cram for tr-sts, students in professor Chuck Lennon's management class focus on a project to raise breast cancer awarenf'SS through a Notre Dame baseball game. 
"It's really exciting," said student Bridget Monahan. "We're actually doing some­thing. We're not just regurgi­tating facts and information." 
"Our project for the class is to put on this baseball garn1:," said student Tom ()'Ilagan. 
Tonight at 7 p.m. in the Eck Bas,~ball Stadium, Notre Damn will play the Univ11rsity of' Illinois-Chicago in the first Breast Cancer Awareness Basp,ball Game. 
"The class is divided up into dilfornnt sections: planning, organization, leading, evalua­tion. controlling and evont team," said 0'llagan. 
Each group focused on their specific responsibilitif's, while collaborating with other groups to ensure coordination of the entire project. 
Although the class develops important management skills, the service aspect of the course is unique. It is one of several service-learning courses offered by the University, said Lennon. 
"When we started the class [Lennon) said that we were going to do this for breast can­cer," said Monahan. 
"It just hits you. Maybe you don't think about (breast can­cer] now, but sometime in your life someone you know will have it." 
The main purpose of the game, which is the only Notre Dame baseball game of' the year free to the public, is to raise breast cancer aware­ness. 
"We hope to raise an aware­ness that cancer, especially breast cancer, can be cured if detected early," said Lennon. 
Hibbons will be handnd out at thu gate and tlw gamn will also l'eature a variety ol' edu­cational opport.unitfos. 
"We havn doctors and nurs­es l'rom Memorial and St. Joseph's hospitals," Monahan said. "We're going to hav11 a bunch of boot.tis for informa­tion." 
The booths, which will Im op1111 bef'orn and cl u ring tlw gamn, will also host rnprnsen­lativos f'rom ZPneea pharma­ceuticals, which is developing a new breast cancf1r troatmPnl drug. 
Jn addition lo the serious purpose ol' brr,ast cancer Nlu­catio n, tlrn event promisns entertainment as well. 
Thn l'ans will b1\ abl11 lo watch tho succossf'ul Irish baseball ttrnm, which is cur­rently lnading thn Big liast conference. 
The basnball lnam has lrnen an integral part of tlrn event. Thre11 play11rs -.Jeff hiker, Ben Cookn and Danny Tamayo -are members or Lennon's class. 
"The baseball t1iam has been very cooperative," said 0'Hagan. "Anything we want to do, !coach Paul Mainieril has been willing to help." 
The students were evaluated on projects throughout the course, however, today's game will reflect tlrn success of tlrn semester-long effort. 
"The attendance al the game will determine how well we've done promoting it," said 0'Hagan. 
The f'irst 200 fans will receive free T-shirts, with more than 350 T-shirts, caps and an airline ticket to be given away during the game. Although there is no admis­sion charge, donations will be accepted for a Notre Dame sponsorship for the Avon can­cer survivor walk. 
The course will be offered again next snmester, culmi­nating in a breast cancnr awareness women's basket­ball gamr, on December 1. 
Recycle the Obsel1'Ve11', 


Classes are starting now! 
Call today to reserve your seat. 
Here for the summer? 
So is Kaplan! 
We can prepare you for the August test! 
Classes start May 24th and June 15th 




1 ·800-KAP-TEST 
www.kaplan.com 
'MCAT Is a reglslered trademark ol lhe Association ol American Medical Colleges. 
60 YEARS OF BUILDING FUTURES. ONE SUCCESS STORY AT A TIME. 
• 
page 8 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
luesday, April 27 1999 

anw Sain Sldllecl Tradftl Sldlletl Trade/vnltlet 242 lncluttl1al 245 lndultrtal 245 Tluc~alhwt/ :,,: DilmNy 246 
....~ 250 
UNG ~R ctJtrfj~~fi°e~ MOTOR REPAIR SPEOAUST 

•klnv a cletqll or!-Y!!Or rov, Jirk. App'G'at A ve,y PnlllresslYe COlllPCl!IY LOCAL DELIYERY
lll WhO l!fllOVS Cl MI D•STA s CON-1, '°P.,k~f for on lndlYldual 1m~~~me;1t ~ l:JllEJ.';, Norii"~'e1\! =~~c:i'1Wf.!'~,gr:v 







WANTED
nine. 90~pay~ tiart. Drust 1CF'ff11 ~ cma1~1111':fectrtc motor
J:ec
YOU Ort l"te~t quired. NO PHONE ~ rnc1uc11r111 experl~
oncl not USf O I CALLS. (I T • removal and lnstallo­1 us l'Ollr resume. ·ion la"" equlPl'Tlfflt. Must 
lnsuranct, PO (MM OPERATOR wllllgf. to t~I ta loca• ,Shawako, 1" u.546 EXPE~ENCED fMPl!dor l~ maanlY ~"nd Northe~ 

For Bookstore 2000 
~td 2nd Ihlttto rvn our lfate~ons. ~11111°W1ve hnlclans 243 ~uii\ive te'9' of SieO-IOiJila~J:":l!f~lf~~~ 
metric f?,!er!!!S n1, ooocl C!II, Inc.. S. Burdick St,
:R TEotNIOAN =~l~'SelieT~ kiiowl-A9002.
atomazoo. 
xcel TOO• uatn:11 SMALL erowlng ortho•
,slgnment IJIIIV\UI pedlc a,mpany looklno for 

Replacement point guard for
:VICES 234-6001 EXPERIENCED Toolmaker ProdUCj!!P,n workel'S with needed for 1st first, =• loo~n11~i;.c1~N~CN( OPERATOR Ca~tri>I lnJoec:tor wlth ex• 

Moreau Seminary team, #28 
-=-~L-:M7:E::-:C:::-H:-::A7:N-:-:1c=-EXPERIEN~E01lnlng ~uenceto~~~Rra'~-~n~ )Cr writer ablll-centerOlleratarfor shift neer~713 Foundat~n .ellenf PGSlllon Thne ore POSI• or.. ' Bend, IN .c6628 

seed Nunc Dimittis. Must be
tienems. t tlons crecrt y ~ and orca 12117-0lSS• 
.,r;nurcn ~-2 p=ifMe~""' .xcei-•-------­

able to move the ball up the
LD Technician ~ ~e~m0~ ~~ STEEL WORKERS 
1111 stores. AA clllt\l and fhe of o 47 Local ~rac:tor needs work­
~s3~n~wax ~r1~n~~c:mr ,11, tax f~r~"l~ y';°~~P;~\~ce 

court and have excellent
WALERKO TOOL & nds r~~ m~to, 1>utl1­
i 
tc1 Trades/ ENGINEERING ocal ?.Mr f.:9i~~id~ 

outside shot. Frequent Mass
dustrlal 245 1935 w,.ffl t ~~olliy'o Insurance, "lnlshers and la-~tr;rn ~Eu-~ly~~Con­
1Cled. We Qtfer Elkhart . st -Ion. 2U6 Elkhart Rood 

attendance a plus. Will team
frl'~k-APt~ir. Fax • (U 33)Goit,en, _ 
ION, INC., at Growth oriented el~lq:if STE?:.eWortcers necled.
9 North In Elk-harness WfflJ!QnY OOk• We r vocation, lnsur­

with maniac priest-guard
•9/alcahoi serf:\? Ing for O hi!_tilY mot~ = Y'l!Or "so/_~rs'rk. 
FULL-TIME Lube Tect,nl•
NO HON ~ll'l~~flclan. • 
~.~rtl[k'§tJm.'1n INt ot 

ciao needed. Must be backorouncl ~~. 1 ~ r,kh~ff Drug/alcohol 
named Doyle. For tryout, avatlable for we,.!S,e~. 
a NOW rfvOi,~~res. c~; scr~fll}_ 'reC\uJred. NO 
=~Jn(~~di':'7 . 
:e -~ !>OSllions. & blueprint skllls WOUIO be PH NE CAL--. ' 
contact:
nolntenonce, mt-Q plus. Send o,tumeto 
·lectrlcol, preven-Tribune box E-32. 
Technicians. One LARGE lndustn, leadhl~
:11onlcal and on& 5ervke $haP 11 In searc 
ele-c:tronlcl mechanic, with o min • 
ab Technician • mum Of 3 Yrs~lnthe Iii-C1
eordowns, ltSting, trtc motor e. o. • 
electronic tech or eiectrlcal exw 11nce t' o
,und. preferred. Appllcan s 
-Progressive dies must be wllllM to worr: ... 
,resses overtime ~~ends,,_ hol • ,.. 
,es to CSR Technl-days, anil all sh ~x~ • 
s: Fax 219-280-2651 lent wage a ts. 0 '33-8209 Apply at: 3509 S. ~ Ck ·E tNF/V/H ~•• Kala-IIJCln. o
all 616-38 • as fol' 
dor Randy, E. o 
MACK·TOOL
'AB, L.L.C. O 
&ENGINEERING o 
steel fobrlcotlon
1edlote openings CNC LATHE 
II owing are<is: O
PROGRAM& o 
Assembly SET UP PERSONS 
Experlenatl'9Clllfflti O
lig Welder Offering loPP0Yt 
o _..,1 K. A,fvOT lrt-o
rake Press ~an Dr., ~b8e , IN. 0 
,ce preferred In MAINTENANCE
'OS but may Iran 
Pl!rson. 
,,~11 ~":u,",:.c' ~r111r1J,rJ: :
L.L.C. otters 
llonol or hasPlto knOWledge
ive wages and 
ockage, We offer of ele~trlcal, plumbing_, c PPOrtunl1v and a 
HVAC, ;herhat'KIYmanttil• ,vlronment that 
ents WI I M to IIOOd JIM, alety and teom­
Must be o e to wonc wiffl or you are lnterest­
wllhout supervfslQII. Send re­
e apply In person sume to: ServlceMpst,r/ 
273-2121.
FAB, LLC. 
I Leer Drive 
MAINTENANCE
'~~I~-~~ 
,nC.R. 6) i:xrnrJl'o'ric~i'l:na~~ EOE s'hltt POSltlon. Must be ab1e to 
work with llmlted supervf­
____.,. Jlon, Applicants need h~drau­
_____ lic/pnuematlc vper ence. 
· • h.. Plasllc or rubber nrect on ex-
Repou Te< mt1on perlence O plus. ring refer• 
5 yrs, e,u,erlence. !!fices with vou. 1Wr,r =ry i.;~~ We offer excellent w, and 
ml ne corstor Col-=:~/ c~-r'oi ~idW,J:
er, 206 s. Elkhart ma or GED ~I~. t>_ruv ,rt. screen req11fred. App•y Mm­,e Technician 5 Frl.8:00-12:00orl:00-4:00. , week. Paid un1­
1$urance & 25ho51-GKI Corp
Ply: Midas.., s . 
, St, South t>end. ~1:~ 
ABU 1V 

N~ffiOe'nerv:'slclnd~r. . _ , ' "•·, .•• : ••~' 
blow ~ el ~MIi-· · ha1".:S. ~ e'ifcR 1°tt~ AUTOMOllVE 
rPence a he p. N= ~ SERVICE & ~r~:llls..,'1~=r~ BODYR!PAIR 
WI?, wgr~i!~gf,ll~:rr: Van Interior repair. Minor 
vidual. Send ~ume to: or CXlfflPleteJtv.!Vcr/olr. In­
52650 Leer ct,,J:lkharf, IN s:.irance. 219-25:4--06'J2 
-46514. Attn· Mll9CI Indus­
trles or cah.-Andrew 219-1-------­
IED Mechanic 
262~73,4 to setup an op. COMPUTERS
'or growing busl­
•sume and lnter­palntment. THE Cir:UTER TUTOR 
-ded. Please con­
OVERHEAD DOOR COM-Small Ce/Home Office
at 61~-7200 
PANY-Mechaqic Train-spec a stsslnce 1985 
ee. Seeking lndlv\dual 219-289-2089 
with mechanWf-1 sld Is ta 
leam Installer! on and re-WORO PROCESSING,
P(lir doors a !>Pllrafor.s. ~ktoP Publlshlng.
5TRUCTION 
Volld drlvl ltcenffi re-61~2745. 
qu red. ompet t'Y.1e
·ERIENCED WOJIIIS, v~. Ol'I, PG GIIYl-~=~~--­
eold hlt!llti ln,.~o~e-CONSULTING McCr:,y a notion­
~~~GAJ"Jy e,A'AA'..~~; COUNSELING 
I construction com-Monday -Friday. 587,ig , ii R ~utl • 
an immediate need Ex~utl~ or 219.259. Nn 'fQr eso ~ 
,need bacl\ hl)e and -~ 76:.i, GI: ORGAN I ED!
a1ors, experienced 2822-219· + '"· Does YOUr busy schedt.11& 1d laboren with vn• stand In the war? :You can utility coostrucllon South Bend Tn'bune C9Unl on customized ~er­
•xperlence. This ls vice Just for i froij:los­
work with hlghlY MULTILITH ettoottlce s ppJn !!CO­
iu=~~:: PRls'li?'P~fltoR rat1nv.car121 ·522· 35.4. 
19·26"1·1137 and coll W• art seekl~ q part-time
:MS-7820 and ask fa< prTnter to wor In our lob D"'"'IGM SERVIC"'S OE ~over. prlntln~ del>O ment Man-""' ,. WF/ . davs-Fr i:vs 'rl~ the ,Ti -=-co""'N""T::-:Re-:A""c""T--,-A-:-:SS:-::E,.,-M:-::B,..,..L.,-,:Y 
['ffPERSON gy~k ;~op~a~=,t1650 rte =i~~ '£
:2~IOK=. 
lrl J presses. Respon,lbllll" In-sma uctlon rUl)S Of · & mlscellaneQUJ elude printing, Platemaklna, mec n col a. PC bOonls eating firm hos full strlplngkllel1S. and some bli'I-assen,blles built to yaur1anenl QPenlng for drvwor · spec1flc~lat1. Contact ,ttsperson, El(perl-Nell!Ofl toltles Com­
ong mathematics Send resumato: pany 616-1878 obllllles required. South Bend
1 ~II under super. 
m
1
~;,,.~'teodhlxcellent ribune ELECTRICAL SERVICE 
,eflts. S~nd re$ume ELE~Rl~L WORK x 2891, South Berni, Human R~rcesDel>f. ID NTIAL
M 
'''"W A CC ME :CIAL& 
aners needed ex-S~th s~. IN ~6 IND STRIAL 233-9\66 
preferred_ !>aid .....__ 11 1 s & holidays. im-No..,.,,..,ca spease. -EQ_U_I_P_M_E_NT_RE--~-A-IR-­o11enlr111s. 234·2147 WE are a fight lndUstrlftl ~~,.,--,,=~-:--,:----""' 
car~ratloq located r. SNOWBLOWER a.1 sOmo11
aire Madtine tf"~·1~"tu~1~~h::rne ~,~~m'°~1~011 K Re­
ln11 m111 gper11tors, ~tlon an our Pl'Qductlan 'S, fl~ture bullders equipment malntencince -~--~~-­
~Ml:' ~l!~rjen!=e,_ lej:!JT). QuaJl!fed appllcan~ RI AllC/W'INnt\W 

esumeto: ~harter, 6704 N. Main, .-:_AVON QtRISTMAS SALES APl>IV at off ce. f,nc 
~~~r•~~Swltalskl ot•-------­


_"v!S~~u~ w~~o~y fl 
• 
SH1fr~ N~ ~~\J; PAID TODAY PWA : t:U:,~~~-eMl~~t. New positions open dai~I ~ 

• 
t. Must be 21. 'Appl.. af: en


. 
~~ ~ ~ 
ELIV~RY {)RIVERS LABOR READY ~j' 
m
:-E~~•tJJt ~~J1lUr 436 Lincoln Way West 
, • 243-1111 ar i.o-1122 
Or coll: Po 
,DePendoble cleanl1111 s>e<r , ~e~ IIV"11119S In 239-3162 
~I 
, en, & MlshaWako. 
• art Qr ful -time .,..,,..--,..---:=---:----Ml 
, eneflts.674-6541. EOE. llR!?!Y Owens Ford ~ PE

Prices start at 
•FULL tjme & POrf flme ~ 3{9~~'!2~~M~~ 2& ~ 
' partun ty avallable win-! LOOKING FOR WORK? f>IZ : =-~-ln~l~r ~t'~,~ Let F exlble f>efinl"l!II, ho
sao.oc 
• renting & ch~~lng ln 68l-6225 provide t so111-Ro 
~ co~ Ilg~ lrfilng r~-tlon.ApplyMon-Fr ,8-llam Po! 

ft C C C 0 GROUNDS POSITION 
Fulijlmt POlltlon with IUJ(UfY.

PROou, ement COfflnM!a, GoOCI
ng­
e)(pe­
wl Itrain

Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or ~ rl11~t ndlv I. Must 111­
workl s. Apply
The South Bend · 
~'J1.ori~5 to In-

Technician to work fl Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
las~-~2~:~ra:

you may participate I ophone calls Pll!Jle,
1-6385
lty. We offer competi J.·· ance, holiday and bl vocation.1@nd.edu _• _ Hel Wanl9cl JOB RECRUmNG DAY 
compensation, and n 
~/'. ~1 2so $7.00ANDUP 
IC CAB II hiring drivers. • ;ralIlonaPraducllon
Your responsibllltie: 
•~ eed Pllbllc passenger • N OPtraton

Pressroom, Camera -~ uffeur's llcense233-4000 • e deo
www.nd.edu/--vocation
Your acheduled wor1< ---------• rak~unch Press hour on-call rotation :;,,ARE YOU LOOKING FOR •~ac1ter, must have an eiectri :.-: AotAUENGE? :Mm:~u~rwram ates degree. PC exp ,Wfi ~ =•ne<•> In our e§a==ers
ANSWER~
cation, organizational, ar,t controlled manufacturing 
li~naec~·.~Ji flEXlBU PERSONNEL

THECALLW
and ablllty to work under f · ~ff,~~ A S1offmo~pany 
training and or work exp ' ;..--·basic ~;;in:·and 6327 u~~ ty ~mans 
, 1kllls. If YO!! enlOY r. 61~

experience would be usefu 

II Offk:e env -Thursday• December lltti S1 
n'S=n~~ 
9am· 1Pffl . . J A1v11, =KINK~S hlrl~Corpo­
, eild-rate orrler. flflve J ' pay+ In-­
South,; 
reotRts. 
·.'' . ~TTEilON.: tervlewlnlil ~ rl llam-Na1
·•. -· ~rlor !!Y'S?...,. 4pm 2202 SOUfll end Ave. :l\'._;°!4~ 11$ 1,-~rs ~
KROGER on Bendix Drive ·' -Is hiring Oe\l ClerkS, P9< 
~ce ii&lireatite. ffC:liv NEEDED: Sales Rei>s/Cor• IP,''
E.A~ly at Nat!onal ~Cleaners, earn up to n,

HOM Remol, Michiana, Re-per week to itort. tel 
g 0!101 Airport, No l>hOne ommlsslon. Call for In-kn I 1 
CLEA 

CJIIIS please. tervlew 288-25-18 ca An t 
I
= 

day ~~~ 
B1tnc. Mlct 
leov1. 2514 or 616-695-5 30 
~=~~~:::-:--­
INTERNET ACCESS 

PICK-A
A South B@nd Tribune Servlce 
Now 

, I Online u IVI I Michiana N ,-1
th •r ' C s 
I

h_os 3Mon i.. Internet Aaess Plans .. 
tochoosafrom•. ; INTERNATIONAi. I resea11ns27HJ.56. . ~­decade,, Sppn SP. -:111c", r'LAS,ER RE'.~A iR, quoll-
I
tronslatfng, lnterpret•ns, tv wo;-1<. :.:oio.m
mblt! rate!.

*10 houn. $9.95 gro~78'A'J~rlal. & referen=o '.134-56,0. (each oddltlonal hour•S2l R-J: .,,u R · 
s TWiofU~S.rbcat, drm"t; o,:mn111110ffl8 epo~... 
Univ~relty Park Mall (eothCl(Jdl11onal hour-$2) eckt, rflalnlng W!JIIS, 4111\inot•~ _...,,,,or dl5eotnit; 
*30 hours-14.95 ruiled, t~ ~~k.l(,teriiis. • No'~btooamall, Fret 
(219) 243-1361

*UNLIMITED. $l9 etc. 67-4-6516or 2.S6-9278. Cail 23J.,C'N1 ,•_,
.95 ________ SPECIAL winter rates,
ho Imp a mews 
& Concord Mall 

H,re•swhafvou.fltwlfh MOVING,TRUCKING d!!<:'U~, sidl~,v~mf
.i~ 
(219) 875-1818

OnllneMlcnlana& lnflnet: &TRANSPORTATION dltlons, 1om11 roo 1 ­
•Nosetuptee 
l>Osement fllllSh,ng,' d, 

•28.8rnodemtuPP!lrt 
BUD'S BACKI Movlnnou censed/ bonaed/ nsor • 3F_i1Rm.N~,., Navloator can C o1rd. l<I le, 291-3421 ask for Er c.• 


A Gift Eveyone Loves to Get/

atf0 1233-6.500Bud_
* F iE-mail TIie lald, quotes & r@fer. 
• ~ •------~=----~--, onces. Werner
7dav/24hr. 219-654­
lta1r:ir\:i=el) •PSYCHIC SERVICES _
7526. Beautiful work. :~, •Windows Wlridows95 
Macvers1ons ' W,~[o1~o<:.e~t~~ SNOWPLOWING .., 1 other l~rtantmatters?
SIGN UP TOO'v, Call axlne232..c955 ~mR~,,:5now, ,
1& mRtt 1.,
10 1

I\I 24hri'.:'6i~~ I
JUST CAU. REMODELING/

1DMnl 1738 HOM MPRO•-M--PLOWING• commerc 
j 
:&A~ ~ 

-VUV--EI wr r..,, W•••• -•m ....,__ · 


Tut'sday, April 27, 1999 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
¦ NEWS ANALYSIS 
Children suffer most in Kosovo 
By ERICA THESING A,sori.11,· N,-w., Editor 
With tho11sa11ds or rdug1H\S ,·1111li11ui11g lo pour out of' Kosovo. sonw n,fjpf agPrH'i<'S an• l"onrsi11g l.lwir PIT11rts on llw war's 1i11iPsl vi<"lims: tlw chil­dn•n who an• slruggli11g to cop<' with Sl'paratio11 rrom fHll'MllS, d1•aths or ramify nwrnlwrs and 1111• loss or Ll1Pir honws. 
Thi' l'thnit" rl,•ansing rarrind out by llw SPrhia11 military has hl'<'ll ns1H•1·ially lr;111nwtic for l.hn childn•11, said c;i111urt l.oPsrlll'r, prof'l'SSOI' of goV!'r!lllll'l\l. 
"Tlw tactii·s usl'd hy St)rh mili­lia and polit'!' in (']p;iri11g pPopll' l'rnm lilf'ir homl's lms lw<~n v1iry hr11lal," lw said. "In gPtll'ral, I 1hi11k lilt' sil11ati1111 for l'hilclrl'n is part.irularly h;iwnlous hl'causc childrf'll -in t.!Jf' r:DllrSP or i>Ping uprootl'd from tlwir homPs -tlwy would havl' brnm wilrn'ss to all typPs of vioh\ncP." 
l.r11•sd11•r Pxplai1wd that this vioi<'111·p i11rludns midnight raids by lhn military, l'orcing till' l'arni­li1•s to gatlwr what.cvl'I' p11ssos­sio11s t.hPy niuld n11d PVa1:uatn within 111i11utPS, as W<'il as wit­rwssi11g tlw rap!' or murder ol' llll'ir family llll'llllwrs. 
"Ol't,•11tir"nf's 111•11pll', i111·luding fomily mr•mhPrs. might hP 
PX()• 

<·utPd on rlr,· spot," 11<' said. "Tlll'St' ar1· prnt t.y lwrrnndous s1·P11os 1'11r lh<'SP l'hildrPII to 11IJSPl'V!'," 
Tl111sl' <'Vt'nts ran lrnv1~ long­lasting psyrhologiral and cmo­ti1J1111 I pfTp,•Ls on thl' rhildr(•n, I .01'srlwr notl'cl. 
"/\l a 111i11im11111. i:hilrlrnn will lwv1· a dillirnlt limn in ti•rms of sol'ial 11tljust111P11L. Tlwy will havf' rp1•11rri11g nightmares," l.1H•srlll'r said. "In most r.asns, this will rPqllirl' or should r<'qllirt' r11trnsnling in ord1ir to sort out tlwse probll'lllS." 
0111' agl'tll'y working to allnvi­a It' lhf'SI' prohl<'ms is Lim C:hrislian Cltilcln'11's Fund (CCFI, which is irnplnmcnting its War Trauma Program l'or thn chil­drn11 fleeing Kosovo. il<'pres(•ntativ<ls f'rom CCF an~ focusing on psycho-social unaly­sis !'or tlin rltildn•n by talking with tlwm and tlwir f'amilins, said DPbra l'Prry. sPnior cus­Lonwr sPrvicn representative for CCF. l'P1Ty nxplairwd that thn rnliPr work(~rs Pncouragn thn rhildrnn to writ11 about or draw pid.urns of' tlwir nxp1winncos. 
"Wlwn tlwy arn askncl t.o draw pidunis of things lik<' I.hat, they primarily rdat<' lo wnrlik1i situa­tions," slm said. This is OS!ll'cial­ly prohlt)nHttic !'or young boys, who an' 01l1'll rn<TtlitNI into thn military during what mos[ pco­plP consid(•r childhood. PPrry saicl that th<' boys' pictures of'tm1 d1)pict soldinrs. 
"Tim dfoct that this has on tlwm is ... thmn not bdng able to livn lifo as a child." sh(! said. 
In an n-mail posted on Urn CCF wPbsitn. Eastnrn Europnan Program Managor Seq{Pi Tsyganov explairwd that his rnlid workers are training adult rnl't1g(H1s and olhnr Albanians to aid in t.lwir work with thn chil­drPn. This includes tcachnrs and doctors who have cxporiencn with childn~n. 
"Whi!() W(\ stratngize a plan for lrnining cou11sclors and sntting up programs for thn children, our priority is to irnmediatPly establish activities that are familiar to tlw children to givn thnm fonlings of sncurity and ro11ti1w," Tsyganov said in tho I'· mail. "Tho childrnn are eager to parl.iripat.n illld (:llgage thc~ir minds on somnthing besidps Lhn worry of' lwi11g rnrugens, a con­cnpt tlw youngest cannot nvcn understand, of course." 
Tsyganov also comnwntml on tfH~ lack of Jlll'n in tlrn rnfugee camps. As Locschnr explai1wd, many or tlwsn nrnn may havn b,wn dntairwd by tho Serbs in Kosovo for usn as human shields. 

"We don't know nxactly what happens to a lot or th<' young men," Lonsdwr said. "In many instancns t.hc populution lo"r rnf'ugciw;f is rnadc up of wonwn, childrPn and oldPr nrnn." 
"Mothers an• shiPlding their rhildren by not t(dling them what happ(HH'd lo lhnir f'atlrnrs Iii' they know at alll." Tsyganov said in his nmail. "It was heart­breaking to snn Urn childrnn so traumatiwd. Tim young ones, boys nspncially, dung to me as I passnd through the <:rowels. touching mn and talking to me lrncause thny miss thn prnsnncn of their l'atlwrs so." 
Beyond tlrn disappearance of fatlrnrs and oldnr brothei·s. fami­1i(1s can lrncomn separatnd by the Snrbs hdorc lnaving Kosovo as wnll as in tho rnf'ugoo camps, 1L'i pnople arn dividml among the nPighboring countries willing Lo take them in. The separation within Kosovo may be part of the Serbian plan /'or othnic cleansing, Lnesdwr said. 
"I think what thny am trying to do is makc it V(1ry difficult for entirn l'amili,~s to return," Lrnischer said. 
He explained thut this compli­cat(is the prooiss that is a.lrnady stripping refugens of their iden­tity. Most have lost all forms of personal idnntilication, including papnrs proving land ownm·ship or providing bank account infor­mation, to Serbian military per­sonnel. 
Tsyganov also touched on this, saying thal thesl' documents are delihcratnly destroyed by Urn Snrbs t.o prnvnnt any "risk" of th() rofugePs rnturning to Kosovo. 
Although t.lrn United States originally announced that it would transport a limited num­ber of' refug(rns to its military base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, thost' plans have changed, said J,oesclrnr. 

Interested in doing a year of volunteering? Check out the Marist Volunteer Program! 
\ \JO/lit;
~,0 I,
(tJ (5)
~MVP~
~lr~; 
~ ~ (_J
",:i 0c:: 
!) A Oi\~8\ 
Positions Available in: 
Education (New York City Area/Boston Area/Wheeling, WV) 
Refugee Resettlement rnoston) 
-Food Shelter (Wheeling, WV) 
-H.S. Campus Ministry (New York City Area) 
A Representative will he at the Center for Social Concerns fiYJn1 4pm -7:30 pm TODAY!! 

¦ CAMPUS BRIEFS
. . 

Cause of fire stumps investigators 
The Indiana Stato Fire Marshal's investigation was unable tu determinfl the rnuse of tho April 20 firo and nxplosion at thn Notre Dame power plant. 
"It is not an unusual situation to have a lire listed with an undetermined origin," said Oennis Mooro, dirPctor of' Notr(1 Dame public relations. 
Early estimates place the cost of the fire at $1.35 million but an exuct figure won't be known until llH~ water cooling units, which wore dostroycd in the lire, are repaired and temporary air conditioning units are installed for the summer. 
''A lot of costs are going to be incurrnd as a result of' the I.ire and at this point we don't know the full cost of replacing Lim cooling towers," said Mooro. 
According to Moore, the University is currently looking into air conditioning possibilities and rnpail' ol' tho coolillg tower will begin as soon as possible. 
Paul Kempf, chief electricnl engineer, and security ot'11cer Jami Thibidcaux, I.he two University mnployees injurnd by the blast, have been released from the hospital but are yet to return to work. Moore report('d that Kem11f attended Saturday's Blue and Gold l'oothall garnu. 
Key Bank officials confirm announcement 
Officials at K<1y Bank have confirmed Friday's annoucnmnnt that student checking accounts open()d at thn LaFortunc branch will not be subject to the three dollar m,tinterrnnce charge. 
"We were able to waive the foe because of the close rolation­ship we have had with Notre Dame for more than 13 yenrs." said Phil Dyrd. execuUve vice prHsident of community banking at Key Bank, .in a statnment rcloascd Monday. 
The $3 fee was imposed following a streamlining for service charges. ftccording to Ken Baierl. vice r>rei;idont of public n•la­tions. 
Core program receives endowment 
Joseph Mornhan, a member of the University Arts and Loi tC"rs Advisory Council. has endowed the directorship of the Corn program. 
This endowment will begin in August, when English profossor Stephen Fredman assumes the program's directorship. 
"This is wonderful news for a program that tho Collngt.• Council has identified as doserving an invcstmnnt or l'aculLy resources and University funding," wrote Mark Horhe, dean of tlie College of Arts and Letters. in a statement. 
The now funds will r:nrnblo tho program to bring in spnaknrs, develop experimental courses and pay stipends for f'aculty research. 
Film wins •Best of Show' 
"Moment." a short film by current MBA student Hyan 
Lutterbach, won "Best of Show" at· the Homntown Cin<'nm Film 
Festival in Bloomington, Ind., earlier this month. 
The award was accompanied by a $1,250 prize donat~d by 
Deluxe Laboratories in Hollywood. A panol of nirrn judgos, 
including Frank Capra, Jr., president and chief executive ofli­
cer of EUE Screen Gems Studios and producer of such films us 
''Gunsmoke" and "The Hilfoman," was unanimous in its sel1•1·­
tion ofLutterbach's film from among some 60 entries. 
"Moment," a six-minute film constructed in the spring of 
1998. explores the intricate lHLppenings on a city strnnt. l'nm·n 
in an instant in time. 
Graduates to receive special awards 
Four Notre Dame graduates will receive special awards from the Notre Dame Alumni Association this weekend. Thomas Jaeb, a 1956 graduate living in Dallas, will receive th•1 William 
D. Reynolds Award for his commitment to improving the lives of young people. 
Dr. James Moriarty, a 1972 graduate and chief' of' modicinl'l at 
Notre Dame's Student Health Center, will receive the .lames E. 
Armstrong Award for his service as a University employee. 
· The Richard A. Hosenthal Award will go to William Cahill. a 1958 graduate of Northbrook, Ill., for his distinguislrnd servic11 .to the Alumni Association. Cahill was an alumni board mmnber 
fromJ986~1989. 
For exemplary community sorvlco. Amy Leroux of Cincinnati, 
a 1992 graduate, will receive the Young·Alurnni Award. Leroux 
spent the year after her gra<luat.iun working as a counselor in 
an inner-city housing center or the elderly. She also developed 
numorous community service projects for the Notrn Damo Club 
of Cincinnati. 
The Follett Corporation, which has managnd the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore for the past two years, has made a $ I million gift to tho University to establish an endowml profes­sorship. 
Bookstore manager donates $1 million 
The nation's la.rgost operator of' campus bookstores, Follett 
assumed management of the Notre Dame storti in April of 
1997and played an integral role in the <lesign of the new 
bookstore that opened in February in the Eck Ctmter. 
''Endowed professo~.ships are one or the top priorities of 
the University's 'Generations' capital campaign," said 
University pl'esident Father Edward Malloy. 
"The Follett chair will further advanc(l leaching and 
research at Notre Dame and also be a constant reminder of 
the relationship between the University and Follett 
Corporation." 
The Generations campaign includes a goal of $150 million 
to create 55 new endowed assistant professorships und 45 
endowed senior chairs. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 OB~ERVER ----------------Tuesday,April27, 1999, 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Michelle Krupa MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANA<,ER 
M. Shannon Ryan D:we Rogero 
A.<SISl;\lff MANAGING EDITOR Laura l'e,dle 
Nl!WS EDITOR ..............................Tim Logan ADVERTISING MANAGhR.......................Bryan Lutz VtEWf'OINT EOITOR ..••.•....... CoUccn (.;aughen An DESIGN MANAGER ......•••.•.... Kenn:eirh Kearney SPORTS EDITOR ...... , ...................BrLan Kessler SYSTEMS MA..~AGER.....,........,, .••.•••. Michae:I Revers SCENE EDITOR ..................... Michael Vanega, C..oNTROLLER ................................. .Timothy Lane SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ......Colleen McCarthy GRArHICS EDITOR.............................. Jue Mueller PHOTO EOITOR .......................Kevin Dalum Wm -'DMIN!STRATOR. ..................Erik Kushto 
'lh.-()b!n:rv~r i;; the indt'p(ndent neY,,sp:tflC'r publi-:hM by rhc ~rndemsof <he Univer:iC)· ofNm:rC" [):tm{" du Lac ::ind Saini \fory'!-Collrgi:, h do~ no1 nC"QS.'i:trily rdlccr die policies of rhe aJminisrracion oft>i,her insrirurion. The news is rcportt"d :u :1cc11ratdy and ohjcnivdy :li f!()S!liible. Un'!igncd editorials represent thf:' orioion ofdu".' m:1joriry ofrhe \..:.Jimr-in-Chid~ Managing F..dfror, A~ism,n Mmrnginr, Edimr amf <l('pomme11' cdito~. \.ununcnt.ir~.s. lctrers and c:u1umn~ prncm 1hc viCW!i ofrhc ;.uuhm~ and 001 nt.-«~rily thost· ofThc Ob~rvcr. Vicwpoln, .;pace i:. available ro all rnt'rnik:r'" of the Notre l)amc/S..htt Mary's community and lo all rt;tdcn1. The fo..-c ,xrre.\5ion ofvarying cpinions thmu~h let,cr., i,o, ~ncouragt."Ci. 
Contacting The Obse,ver 
Edirnr-in-Chief 631-4~42 Office Manager/General !nformstinn 631-7 471 Man:tging Edi[nr/A.~!l:isr:mr ME 631-4541 Bu,iness Office 6.~1-5313 News 631-5.,23 Advcrti,ing 631-6900/8840 Yicwpoinr 631-530.~ Sy<tcms/Wcb Admin i,cr.nor 6.i 1-8839 Spom 631-45H Fax 631-6?27 Seen~ 631-4540 Ad E-Mail observcril!1darwin.cc.nd.edu S.:unt Marv\. 631-4.>24 News E-Mail obscrvcr.obsnews.l@nd.edu Photo · 631-8767 Viewpoint E-Mail ob,erver.v1ewpoint. l@nd.edu 
¦ RIGHT To LIFE 

Euthanasia Robs an Important Part of Living 
The pro-life movement often receives the label "anti-abortion" as both insiders and outsiders misunderstand its objec­tives and beliefs in the work of defending all life. I admit for a time I called myself pro-life, but I never really thought beyond abortion. Issues like capital punishment, euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide never crossed my mind. Until last year. 
John Linn 
My late grandfather spent two months in a hospital before passing away in 1998 after suffering his fourth heart attack. During that time, doctors told us that he had little chance of recovery, if any. Several of my aunts and uncles consid­ered "letting him go" by authorizing a physician to give him so much morphine that he would no longer be able to breathe, not fully understanding the grave implications of such a course. This would have been a painless death, but my parents said no, that it was wrong to do anything to cause him to die. Not only would we assist in killing him, but he would lose those last days on earth with his loving family and those last moments spent in reconciliatory prayer with God. 
Instead of letting him go, my father asked that he be kept comfortable and alert so that he could spend time with his children and grandchildren and feel the warm love of family. My grandfather asked that no extraordinary measures be taken to keep him alive artificially. He did not want to live simply by the power of a respirator, but he wantt?d to bi> fed, can>d for and respected as a living person. I le was treated according to these wishes, and he died perfectly conscious and peaceful. 
What's this got to do with the pro-life movement? Well, letting my grandfather go would have been an act of euthanasia, a mercy killing. What's wrong with a mercy killing? Doesn't it just hasten the inevitable, giving someone who's going to die anyway the chance to die sooner? Isn't it better to help the elderly or termi­nally ill person to die than to allow them to live in loneliness and at great financial expense? I mean, the dying person is about as valuable as the person would be dead, right? 
Of course not. None of these are good enough reasons to administer a dose of morphine or Versed so large that its sole purpose is to relax the chest muscles, pre­venting a person from taking a breath. Nor do any of these warrant a dose or potassium strong enough to stop the heart or, in the worst possible case, a suf­focating pillow over the face_ One can cer­tainly understand that these measures are morally reprehensible and should never occur. 
Unfortunately, euthanasia appears in other forms. Sometimes, physicians may remove the nourishment of feeding tubes and intravenous fluids from a patient, effectively starving the person. Again, most will agree that starvation is not a proper way of "helping" someone, even if the intent is to hasten death. 
Yet, the phrase "hastening death" stirs the moral juices as well. Doctors and fam­ily members hasten death for several rea­sons -money, loneliness and conve­nience for all parties involved -that aren't quite morally sound. Euthanizing a person to save money on hospital bills implies that the savings are more valu­able, more important than the life of the patient, the loved one. Hastening death in order to save the dying person and his family from suffering places human emo­tions above the sacred value of life itself. Euthanasia reduces human life to noth­ingness, robbing someone -someone who is loved, who is wanted, who is in 
¦ DOONESBURY 
5P6C/Al 7J<!e.Ai FOR. >al'll)l;14Y, 6i4N(3­MYf?t/?TN81< CflAf;ti 
HA'?JA~'!077/?EA7' t/5 7lJA Ur£ S!i$/ON 
OF PIIY· 71?AP/N6/ 
;,.tr,/ 
TH/ff!;RIGHT;MARI<-IU Be STIV<:TING CJI.JTaYi?f$'/4tW 
4NP -mAl?IN0 ONt./N~UNTI/. 
THIP MARKlffC/.LJGl;SlANP Neu !l!3 8/VAPCIISTIN3 5tl!il<YMO~.IMA/<£.' 
"' 

need -of his natural right to live and die with dignity. It also impedes the natural progression of life by failing to recognize that dying is itself a part of life. The time that we speak of as "the last moments" is the process of dying, no less a part of life than birth or growth. The growing trend in society to write off these last moments of a person's life poses a threat to all who are not perfect, who cannot take care of themselves and who need special atten­tion. 
In order to overcome this increasingly common inclination to hasten death, a compromise must be developed, one that allows a person to finish life naturally yet comfortably so that he or she might enjoy those ever important final days without pain and without suffering. For there will 
'HASTENING DEATH ]N 
ORDER TO SAVE THE 
DYING PERSON AND HIS FAM­
ILY FROM SUFFERING Pl.ACES 
HUMAN £MOTIONS ABOVE 
THE SACRED VALUE OF LIFE.' 
be cases in which a person in extreme pain has little chance of recovery, and these must be handled in a way that not only appeases the individual's needs but satisfies the family as well. 
Pro-lifers support the practice of pallia­tive care, as a solution which does not aim at hopeless efforts to cum an incur­able person but, rather, efforts to ease suffering in a moderated f'ashion. A patient receives pain medications like morphine in a dosage that alleviates dis­comfort while allowing the individual to remain lucid and alert. Through this form of treatment, all are satisfied. The patient is comfortable and can intcrad with those around. The family can talk with their dying grandparent with tho assurance that he or she is at peace. The doctor can find solace in the limitations of medicine. By forgoing futile treatments that may cause further suffering, a person is allowed to rest at ease with their family a final time, a gift more valuable than lif'e on a respirator. 
The value of such earn cannot bn over­stated. If palliative earn is not practiced and euthanasia grows morn common, thn quality of care administered to the dying will plummet, most notably among thosn with a decent chance of recovery. 
My father administered palliative cam to my dying grandfather. Ile did not euth­anize him by knocking him out with nwd­ications that would render him listless and unconscious; at the same time, he did not turn to drastic measurns in a desp1\r­ate attempt to prolong his lil'e. Instead, my grandfather lived his last wneks in peace, reeling little pain but knowing a great deal of love. One of the last things he wrote on his clipboard at the hospital was a word of thanks for allowing him to live in peace and to die in peace ... to receive the Sacraments orrn last time ... to hold his wife's hand one last time ... to hold his new granddaughter for the first and last time. I have never witnessed such an incredible outpouring of lovn and compassion to another person as that one. As I sat at his bedside, 1thanked God for the gift orlif'e in my grandl'athcr, I had never loved him as much as I did in those\ precious moments.The practicc\ ol' euthanasia should be rnsisted prncisdy because it would have robbed my grand­father and my family from thn solace ol' those last moments. 
John Linn is co-president <~( N/J flight to Life who believes that all truth comes from Real Genius. For all those who don ·1 understand whal he's talking about, see the movie. 
The views expressed in thi.<: column are those of the author and not necessarily those of ThP Obser11er. 

711/;Y'/?£UP 71}!T.1 Y. ·71?,tJJ?E/?.5MU 
IS5l/lzit~YW~.'AN!Nm,IJ­WCAN 7lJl?NIN· 
[1{JMPOPINZ 
'l<.1 


GARRY TRUDEAU 
¦ 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
,No one won the last war, 
and no one will win the 
next.' 
-Eleanor Roosevelt 
----------------~ 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday. Ap1·il 27, 1999 ---------------------os~ERVER ----------------------------page 11 
¦ Nor PEACE, Bur THE SWORD 
Spying on the Theologians 

Browsing Uw lntomd last \vtiek, I saw rnany diffornnt wPh pag-Ps. Particularly ol'intnrnst were sonrn ol'tho Notre I>anw Tlwology IJ<•paitmrmt wnb sitc,s -not only for their n•vPaling rrnwrn, lrnt also f'Dr the fad that they stnnd as a p1irliirt arg11mPnl for 1ho PxpNlitious implmnnnt.atinn of /:'.,: l,i,rde l,'cr:lt•sia<'. Lot mr first express my deep resper.t ti,r m1my or our theology professors. some Notre Dnme lhPologians an• ,unong tl11• pri>nrnintmt scholars in t!mir rPspPctiv1• spPdallins. For thP.ir very real achiovomenLs, Lh•i tlwologians dPsPrve our esteem. In spite of this, I would hn remiss if'! didn't rrwntion some vury disturhing lhings that I Pncmmlorud. 
Sean Vinck 

The Tlwology wd1 site proudly advertises itsdf' as the "most-ofln11-visilnd Cafholic school sitr on the lntnrnct." Yl'l, among the lirst things to which thl' visitor is greetl.'d is "ll11• I lPpartml'nl's 1982 policy on sexist language." So, ,m tlll' f'rnnl pagn or tlw mos1-oflrn1-visitcd Catholic School wuh sitn in the world, we have no devotional pictures. no rf'li•r1•111·ps to J1isus Christ, and no cmcifix. More promi­1w11t than any nwntio11 ol' tho cPntral LnnPL'i of' our faith is a policy on so-ca!IPd "s,:xist language." The odious st'1nch of' radical f,•minism has taken precedence over even the rr111n1 fundmmmtal aspPcl"i of Catholicism on th11 Notre Dame Thrnlogy Page. This is not to say that m1imbers ol' Lhn Thnology Faculty a.re radical feminists; quite the con­trary, I am inclined lo believe that most of the faculty nwmb11rs arn good and pious peoplo. Yet, it L'l particularly disturbing that in a prominent place of self-advertisement, the Notre Dame Theology Department would choose to ,Lss1winln iL.:;nlf'with the brand of feminism that has pollut­1.'d so many other academic institutions, manifested in its condemnation of "sexist language." 
llowev11r. w11 find other seeds of dissent. more glaring than tho nfornmentioned, in other pnrl'> of the site as well. On Urn wcbpage of one professor we arc greeted with a scurrilous insult hurled against John M. D'Arcy. the Bishop of tlm diocose ol' Fort Wayne-South Bend. Tho Professor's web pag11 tolls us,"For centuries, officials in the Catholic Church (and many others, too) have acted as thought the Church belonged to th,,m. The Second Vatican Council rca!lirmcd tho traditional notion that the Catholic Church consisl'>, instead. in all of its members, not simply ils ordained members. Some Catholic oflidals, howevnr. have not yot gotten the message. John D'Arcy, Catholic bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend, IN, is aprime cusl' in point.'' Thr Professor goes on to tell us to "follow the saga of' his decision lo fire a high school basketball coach for the oITenso of having loft the Catholic denomina­tion for tho Baptist tradition onus wife. And, while you're rPading this. tk'ik yourselfthP following question: 'If! were raising a child, would I want hor or him to be morn like John D'Arcy. or morn like Jody Martinez'! Which person b1•tt,1.1r embodies Christ?'" Now. I have not muntioned this liu:ulty mnmbnr's name out of respect, bocause I do not want to attack him or to in any way impugn hL<i reputa­tion. I am merely trying to make the follnwing point: it is simply not appropriate for Uw Notre Dame Th()oiogy Dopnrtmonl to constitutn a haven ofdissent against God's gift of thn A1agisteriw11. · 
Tho pnrsonal attacks and scurrilous charge~ against l)'J\JTy and thn church, arguably falso and bordering on slanderous, am indicative of a pervasive academic culture at this 1111ivnrsily. Why is the Tlrno!ogy Department arling IL"i a mouthpioco ti,r radical lhminism't Why is tho most promint•nt Catholic University iJ1 the world being used as a platform to hurl ctnmonslrably false invectivn against the apostolie stH't:Pssor or.lnsus Christ'.> 
Any sorious Catholic has to ask these questions. I would suggest that part of the problem is the continuPd failure to implmnnflf. th11 r\r,ostolic Constitution on Cathol.ic l111iversiti1is, f:): Cord(' Hcclesiae (From the lfoart of the Church). particularly the provisions rcgard.ing unsuituble farnlty mmnbMs. Notr,, Dame is iii a rritir<LIJ1mclurti ­uclhoro to the Magi!Uerium of tho Church or cc11sc to prn­rnot.11 ils.ilf' as a Catholk University. The sad fact orthe rnallnr is U1at tl1P Uniwrsily must begin a dil'lieuli. hut nccnssm-y procoss of' thu invnsUgation and removal of l'rofossors who do not share in the apostolic, pastoral, and salvilir mission ol'thf' Homan (atholic Churd1. 
.\',•a,1 Vinck l<; :•mpJwmore Pu,· mqjor, hl"I column runs ecwry olfl<'r luesday. 
nw deu•s expres.•wd in this 1·ot11mn are tho.<w (llhe autlwr and not n('cessnrily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ THE COMMON Gooo 

Catholic Social Teaching and a Response to Mr. Novak 
Tlwrn 11.rP lhrnn ways -inllilhwtu­al. l'!mtorirnl. and ncdosial -that. l\1id1,wl Novak·s writing avoids m·rnuntability to Catholic social doc­Lrinn. I !is rnspons1• to my columns 1•virl1•nc1•s all thrnn. It should I)(' dPar !hat my primary rnncPrn is not Mr Novak\ hdnrodoxy per :w. but tho prnsC'nlalio11 of his writings as il'tl11:y wnn, orthodox. To put it in Mr. 

cfof'nnsc and pniscrvntion of' commor1 goods .. 1lcrn we !ind a ,mw limil 011 thl' marknt: tlrnrl' arn roll1•rt.iv1• and qualitative ,rneds which cannol bP salisli1·d by markl't llll'chanisms"(40). 
More fundanwntally, \Vhat is f'unc­tioning in Novak's claim that c-ronom­ic rights am "1)ssenlially cliffonint" frn111 dvi[ and political righL', is llw VPl'Y thing that is f'unclinning in c·111nscrilwd by 1•conomir rights, and lw is dnar -rnpPakdly so -that tlwn• is no virtory fi,r rnpilalism ((:!'11/esi11111s /\111111sl 
Tlw srn·oncl tril'.k is "Changl' l.lu• SubjPct through lnnuPrHlo." 111 his rnSJ)l)nS<', Novak rl11111gPs 1111• lopir l'rom lwt.Procloxy/orthocloxy lo "srnul ~ nxplort'r" /" ro11vP111ional Pl'l'.iu­dkl's." with surh pn•judil'l's lll'ing 
Novak's terms. th11 issun is "truth in 

-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_~---_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-assodal.nd with "tlwological 1·irdns." 
-
advmtising." 
I. '11w fnt<'lfect11al .\'heft Grmw Tlin first way that Mr. Novak avoids an:mmtability is to switch argu­nrnnts dPpending on tlw ocrasion, always carnful to k1inp tlw pPa ­thn dissrn1t-out of' vinw. Ilnrn, flw first option is to usP quotns in 11 sPkctivn and tnndcmtious way togPthPr with silml('.tl on thosl' parts of' his thought that divergii f'rom tlw tm1rhing in order lo prnsnnl. his vimvs as ii' they wern tlw vinws of ollkial I.Parhing. J\n uninformed rnader would assunw that Novak and ollicial clortrinn arn onl' and tlw same. II' not prPSSl'd on tlw isswi, Novak l!:L'i tlw p1nT.t!ptio11 stand. 
II'. hownvm. his lack ol' rc1c·.ogniti11n or economic rights is nwntionnrl. ~ovak does a slmll switch lo a second argunmnt: tlw cwidnnce !'or 11conomic righls is thin, the lnxts "do not bnar tlm wnight" that lhosn who allirm nconomic righls want lo place on them (Saint l,ouis l lnillersity Puhlic !,aw llelliew (l 1)86)). llownver, uvcm if w1~ limit ourselves to the t,ixL'i of .John Paul II and only in Ccnlrisimus /\nnus and after, we find multiple olTicial affirmations of economic righls. 
When sommmc points out this abundance oftexls, as I have, Novak employs another switch: claim that economic righLs have an "essentially diffnrent meaning" than civil and political rights. Thn former "requires others. as a last rnsort, lo do some­thing for those in need," while the lat­ter, ''warns others not to interfere in the subject's natural, logitimate actions." Hern, Novak claims, "Whitmore never deals with the equivocations in the term economic rights that my articlns uncovernd." In fact, I dealt with the dilforence between the positive action required of economic righls and the negative, protective nature of civil righL'i at some length -a 1h11 column ("A Hnsponse," 11/20/98). Novak "uncovnrs" nothing. These under­standings of the rights are standard. with the I\Xception that them is noth­ing in Catholic tnaching about our holding back helping others until "last rnsort." Tim principln of' sub­sidiarity, which I addressed last time, is much morn nuan('nd. Pnrsons arc their own lirst rnsort. but all tho whilo other peopi1\ associations, and institutions arn to "support" lsuli­siclerP) lhnir elforL'i (n.g. schools tu support parnnts in mJucating their childrnn). Novak nrrs on tlw sidn of classical libm·al individualism. 
What is at stak11 th,m in Novak's claim that the two kinds of' righl'i am "css,•ntially dilfornnt.'' ? Two things. First, he is concernnd about the rolo or tlw state in securing economic rights (SI. J.ortis Unii 1ersily). Again, in Church tnar:hing the kind and dogrne 111" staw involvPninnt follows tho prin­cip!P of subsidiarity in light ol'tlw particular situation al hand. What kinds or laws am in plac:11 a.ml whnlher tlwy an\ part of tlw 1·.onstilu­tional l'ramework dnpends on what tlw practical contnxl mquirns. That thn statii is lo sd limiL'i on llw 111arknt through support of Pconomic rights is d1•ar in Centesimus /\nnus. "It is the task of' the slate Lo provide fur the 

Todd David Whitmore 
C1iorg11 v\'nigc)l's distinction lmtWPl'n sexual doctrilm (rPquin1cl) and sorial tl'arhing (optional): to say that tlwy am "essentially diffon•nt" is. in thn t1ncl, to say that WI' do not havn to lakii them Sl'riously as righb -that is, strict moral claims -al all. This is most evident in Urn fact thaL Novak s11ts no rl'al limil'> on tlw privalP usn of' property. We sec hnrn that it is not simply that tho poor am not Lo appPal to tlrn slatn to mako tlwir claims on the well-off; they havn no r11al claims on the well-off at all. 
If one points thesl' !'acts out, Novak switches to a fourth argurnnnt. Ile is "an explorer. a scout" for tlm Church. IIis task is to "illuminate the way 

ahead" by finding out what the laity really think and suggesting that their morn "practical" ways of living arn thu direction the teaching ought to go. This is similar lo the argumcmt-; of' persons -who also consider them­snlves "explorers" and "scouts" ­who appeal to the "practical" prac­tices of American Catholics regarding contraception and abortion to mak,i the case that. official toachings on these matlers should change. This is not a group with which Novak wishns to identity, so this argumnnt appears only when he is pressed. 
II. Cheap Rhetorical Tricks. The fourth argumnnt has iL-; liabilities, so Novak often rnlies on what can only be called cheap -and thus transpar­ent -rhetorical tricks. Tlw first is "Mislead through Condescnnding Sarcasm:" "Most nwn and women of Notn• Dami' are going lo b11 working in (horrors!) capitalist nconomic: sys­tems and (wmi! woo!) businnss corpo­rations." What is rnisl('ading is Novak's fudging. onr.11 morn. of .John Paul ll's freu economy/capitalism dis­tinction. Profits in business can snn·n tlm common good as long as tlw mar­ket is "circumscribnd within a strong juridical l'ranrnwork." The l'ren ,~con­omy has such a f'ranwwork. <·.apilal­ism docs not (C/1). h1dging tho dis­tinction allows Novak lo rnduc:o Orn options to two: capitalism as lw undnrstands it and Marxism. Thnrnforn if ono disagrnos with hi111, one is nncessarilv a Marxist or social­ist. The capitalist-Marxist dualism also allows Novak lo claim that Urn 1·.ollapsn of Soviet-style rn1111m111is111 nwans moral victory !'or U.S. capital­ism. But thn Pope sets out a third option -the market economy cir-
This palt<'rn appc•ars in "TIH' 
Catholil' Hhic". wlH•r" Novak dis­
missPs vinws simply bn1·ausn l.lwy 
am arliculatnd hy 1u·ad1m1irs, and 
arn tlwrnforn, in ·his viPw, 111•1·nssari­
ly IJiasnd toward I.Ill' "ldl." My 
rnlumns display rardul textual 
rnading ol' Novak's work. Yd. hi' 
attnmpt.s lo sd asid1· llw analysis hy 
placing it tmdf'r tlw 1·atngory of' tlw "r1111vnntio11al" and "pn,judin•d." This rwal trirk allows him to dismiss llw analysis and rlrnngi• llw subjl'rt in a sing!<' word. Tnxts and argumnnl an• not nm•.pssary. 
111. J:'<·1-ll'siasti/at ,','11f1i1·clil'isrn. This is Novak's third stratPgy, and in tvvo ways. 1-'irsl. lw apJH•als lo subjl'1·liw "intimacy" wilh ('h11rd1 ollkials ratlwr than thn olijl'rtiVI' 1·0111·or­dancn of' his writing with Churrh doc­trirw as tho bnst nvidn111:1• of his lark of' diss1mL Sncond, and rl'lal.c•d, in a Novnmlwr phmw co11vnrsatio11, lw slatl'd that dissrn1t is a mallnr of' tlui will, and so hn dons not qualify. No church oflicial has nanwd him as a dissnnt11r; thus tlrnrn has lwm1 110 occasion to tixercisl' dissm1t by, for example, continuing to writl'. This is what hn means by. "Disstml as a way of d,mying the ttiarhing authority of' tlm pope and bishops is always wrong." 
On I.his view sonwthing is not tlw casn until a church ollicial says ii. is. But this is highly prohlnmatil'. It would nman, for instancn, that slav­nry was not wrong until church teaching id,mtifind it as such. 
llow are we lo undnrsland Mr. Novak's rlissnnl tlmn? First, distin­guish hntw11en sul~jnctivl' dissPnl that is an act or. to usn Novak's tnrm, thn will, and objnctivP clissm1t thal is 1wi­denl in the intdlectual disjurn:tur<' blltween a pnrson's work and Churd1 doctrine. I havn shown Novak's objm:tivo dissent by placing his writ­ings sidn-by-sidn with oflicial tmu:h­ing. I havn not, as Novak suggnsL'i, listnd "snvnral poinls" of dissm1l. I am careful to list orrn v11ry significant such point: his d1mial of iiconomic righl<; and tlin claim that tlwy havn on our livns and tlm lilii of soci11ty. I th,m argun that multipll' inl.111-rdatrnl aspnct<; of Novak's rn:onmnic tlmory support his rnj11dion of' nconomic righl.:; such that lo movP lo ass1mt would rcquiw a dilli•nmt ciconomir tlwory. Any accPptanrl' of' such righls on his part is, as wn haw snPn, only ostrn1sibln. 
Tlw final q1wstio11 is that ol' wlwtlwr Novak's distortion of' ollirial tnad1ing-for instmu·p, his claim I.hat ,John Paul II rdi•rs to tlll' rirh­poor gap only "11wl.aplwric:1lly" ­and his nmploynwnt of' an intnll1•1otual sl11•II ganw lo nwkn it app1:ar as if' his w1·itings an• in a!'i:ord with tlml tnad1ing am thmnsnlvPs 1•vid1•nc1• of' a 111isdirrn:tml will. !lo tlwy r1111st.it111.1•, in Novak's words, a willl'ul "way ol' dnnying tlm tPad1ing authority ol' tlw popl' and bishops?" 
Todd W!tit1111m' is a f)ro}i•ssor <!/' //i('()/ogy. I/is m/1111111 af)/Wars 1•1wry other Friday. 
'/1w ui<'ll'S l'.Xf}rf'Ssn! in this mlw1111 ar1• tlwse ofth<' autlwr and 110/ fll'<'· essarily Ihose of'/1w <J/J.•wn•1•r. 


O
THE 

page 12 ---Tuesday, April 27, 1999
BSERVER 
¦ SCENE ASKS ••• 
JHiat was the bestpart of1998-1999? 
"Enjoying youth and freedom." 
Ingrid Yan 
Senior Le Mans Hall 
"The end." 
Dave Clark 
Sophomore Keough Hall 


"My sweetheart's acceptance of my marriage proposal." 
Robert Sedlack 
Visiting Professor Riley Hall of Art 
"Taking nudie photos of each other for photo class." 
Gino Rienhart 
Senior Dillon Hall 
Christy Roese 
Sophomore 
Farley Hall 
"The best experi­ence is yet to come: Senior Week." 
Michelle Janka 
Senior 
Off-Campus 


1998-99 The before the 

The new semester brought four major changes in the social structure of the com­munity. 
Aft~r a year of renovation, South Dining Hall opened with a puzzle-like organization, but still gained praise. By extending its din­ner hours to 9 p.m., it certainly accomodates students whose late-night eating tendencies didn't work with the old 7 p.m. dinner dead­line. 
The south side of South Dining Ilall includes Reckers. a 24-hour restaurant spe­cializing in smoothies and sandwiches. Along with LaFortune's new Burger King franchise, these establishments provide the campus with a greater variety of non-meal plan opportunities. 
To pay for those visits to Reckers or Burger King, the meal plan was also reformed to include Flex-14, giving students 200 buckaroos per semester to use at food­stops around campus. 



The Observer/Kevin Dalum 


The Observer/Liz Lang 

... the new and improved &ook worsftip depot &esLns an eccfeslasttca( era for stwfmt textbooks ... 
The Eck Center opened south or Morris Inn, housing a visiting center, tlrn hnadquar­lers for the Alumni Association and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstorn. 
Though criticized for its distance from much of the campus, the bookstore slill gained praise f'or its aesthetic pleasantries. Nothing can be said about its crowd nffocliverrnss until the fall, when football season brings in the masses. 
C s 

O 
THE

'foesday, April 27, 1999---------------------------------------page 13
BSERVER 


••• mustc and mO"Vtes make 
the worfd smile ... 
l'hirci l:yl' Blind visitml Str.pun Cr.nlor in Um fall, whiln Branford Marsalis gracr.d that grni­dnsir donw in tho spring. Thny providr. a rwcd(•d rnspitl• from tlw monotony of lifo at in South ll1md. 
To11dii11g 1mrphonns across llrn nalion, won sPnsations 'N Synl' and Brittney Spnars got dw(irs nnd jr.(!J'S from immature and nrnlurn audinnrns alikn, while Lauryn llill's "Misr.du1:alion" kkknd butl at Ow Grammys. 
111 tlu• movie scnrw, "Hush !lour," "/\ Bug's l.ifo" and "J,:,wmv or tlrn Stall'" clominatml the fall movit' season. whihi "Patch /\dams" and "You'v!' c;ot Mail" raknd in tlw hucks during tlw holidavs. 
Early ·,j9 allowed only lwo n\al hits with "i\nalyz1• This" and "Tlin Matrix," Otlwrwisn, audiPncns have thrown thn onslaught or hH\11/high school nicks hack into the faces of 1lollywood studios. 

..• aff that snow ruins travef pCans ... 
1\l'LPr an unorthotlox fall s1i11rnstnr that saw nary a snow l'I a kl•, woalh or-p1•rs-o ns across Michiana thankNI (;Dd for l.lw N1•w Ynar's wi11tnr allack. Thrnuglwul winll•r vacation and into spring brPak. Llw sky scrc•anrnd at Urn rntrtlt, dumping loacls of' snow across llrn nation, <Inlaying airpla111• trav,d and makin).{ tlw livPS of sludnnls a living lwll. This weather cuntin­u1•d until rays or sunlight lmgan lo hr1iak thn rnoralP of' thn clouds. Unl'ort111ml1dy, tho harsh winter turnl'd into a rainy S 1> I' i II!{, ll1 a ki 11 !{ l h P 111011 l h 1if' April Llw sncond wntl11sl on rncorrl in South lknci. 
¦ SCENE ASKS ••• 
Wnat are you doing this summer? 

"Absolutely noth­ing -getting ready for graduate school." 
Amanda Bauer 
Senior Lewis Hall 

"Trying to find a 
. b ,,
JO • 
Allison Hollis 
Junior McGlinn Hall 





Photo courtesy o1 Universal Pictures 
... and then the _ftsft .•• 
Everyone's favorite sea creature made appearancns al several football games during the football season. From frogs to fish to squid, the student section was given an unexpected biology lesson dur­ing Notre Dame's most traditional tradi­tion. 

The Observer/Joe Stark 
~ 
"' 
0 
II 
!
,­

"Travel across country with friends." 
Paul Chen 
Senior 

Off-Campus 
"Take road trips and pretend I don't have a job that starts in September." 
Erin Fair 
Senior 
Off-Campus 
.5L_..___________________________, 
" 
-
-


"Developing our nudie film from the past year." 
Gino Rienhart 
Senior 
Dillon Hall 
Christy Roese 
Sophomore 
Farley Hall 



-----------------Tuesday, April 27, 1999
page 14 OBSERVER 



..... 
In the category of nostalgia from the file cabinet that is the mind, r urning to video games that one played as a kid is not something that anyone wa 5, for one simple reason: Most of them were ugly and clunky and a disgrace in ligh C>f what is available to the avid gamer today. 
It was, therefore, rather surprising how much excitement there ·as when Activision decided to revamp and remaster the arcade classic, "Asteroids. 
Unfortunately, the excitement effect soon disappeared. Although lilled rith much better graphics, many more ship designs and an abundance of weaporn the game has made little real improvement. There is still a ship that sits in the m die of the screen, things still tly in and out of the screen and the player's ship can nt er escape the square section of space that imprisons it. In a comparison between 'I.steroids" and other games, "Asteroids" is downright boring. What is the game good )r'? 

-
Well, besides a extra-large and very expensive coaster, it will keep 1y gamer from having to do a whole lot of thinking, as he or she just sits there ~ d presses buttons. 
i i )
] 1 1 (out of five) 

··Apocalypse·· 
--'l ...,l -'s. 

By JAMES SCHUYLER Scene Writer 
The easiest way to see how far Hollywood video games have come in the last few years is the fact that they now feature Hollywood's favorite actors in starring roles. Activision's "Apocalypse" was surprising in that an actor would put his name on a video game that was not first a movie. Bruce Willis' likeness and voice were used for the persona of the main character of the arcade game. 
To determine how good the game is, one must begin with the fact that "Apocalypse" is virtually plotless. There is some semblance of a plot, but it in no way affected the game-play, which involved a lot of running and shooting and not much else. The developers of the game wasted too much time on the non-live action, which should develop the plot, and far too little on the actual game-play. 
Case in point: The most common way to die in this game is by falling from a height. It was rather strange that no matter where the character went, he was still at a great height, able to avoid avoid flying robots, but never the edge of a platform. This became annoying. 
There was no strategy needed to advance from one level to another. besides realizing that the things shooting at the character would stop when blown up. The game was fast-paced, but sometimes it became too fast. The game took very little time to gain victory. "Apocalypse" is a game that should not receive much repetitive play after a first attempt. 
Both ames reviewed on PlayStation 
¦ IT WASN'T THERE YESTERDAY, SO HERE IT IS 
'The Matrix' jumps bac :k to number one, beating 'I ife' 

Movie Title Gross Sales 
1
. The Matrix $ 12.6 million 

2. 
Life $ 11. 3 million 

3. 
Never Been Kissed $ 6.0 million 

4. 
Pushing Tin $ 3.6 million 

5. 
Analyze This $ 3.1 million 

6. 
Lost and Found $ 3.0 million 

7. 
10 Things I Hate $ 2.7 million About You 

8. 
Go $ 2.02 million 

9. 
The Out-of-Towners $ 2.01 million 

10. 
Forces of Nature $ 1.6 million 


Source: Associated Press 
Pho1o oourtesi Warner Brothers 





Tuesday, April 27, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ HOCKEY 
Irish sign two forwards, def enseman, goalie 
Special to The Observer 
The Univ1\rsity or Notre IJanw lrnckoy tuam has signod l'uur playPrs -including thrnn urnmb,~rs of' tlrn United States Na1 ion al n,welopment Program -to national letters of intllnL during tho spring signing p11riod, head coach !Javc Poulin announced. 
Tho signt!ns inclu11li f'or­wards Connor l>unl(lp and .John Wroblewski. clcfensnman Paul llarris 1111d goaltnndur Tony Zasowski. Zasowski is wrapping up a sur.ccssf'u I sca­S(lll with tlui Omaha Lancers of' thn U11itnd States Hockey Loagu1: whilH Urn other sig1wns have completed play with thn U.S. Undur-1 R Team. 
Tlin l'oursomn joins Notrn llanw's pair of fall sig1wcs­right wing Michael Chin and dnl'nnsnman Evan Nidsen ­lo l'orm onn of tlH~ nation's top incoming classes. Fivn of llH1 flllWCOlllllrS spnnt tlrn past s1•ason playing in tlw ruggtid USIII .. 
"Tlwse six players completn a string of l'our straight rlass­<'S that have added trnmnn­dous talnnt to our program. WP havt! some pretty serious holPs to f'ill dun lo graduation, and tlw nnwconrnrs should bn up !lw challnngo o/' adjusting lo Division I hockny." said l'oulin, who will bn entering his fifth season behind tlrn Irish lrnnch artnr guiding Urn l <J 1J8-<J1J team to a 19-14-5 ovcirall mark, a fourth-place finish in the Cnntral C:ol11igial11 llockc•y /\ssociation and a nnar-si)(Jt in tlrn NC/\/\ luur­
rHrnwnL 
"AL the same time, even though tho incoming players have Hxperienced succP.ss at a high level. they alone will not be responsible for replacing our graduating players. f.irstly. we anticipate that all of our returning players will elevate their gamlls. Tho play of' tho newcomfirs also will play an important role in our continuing goal of progressing as a program." 
Notre Dame is set Lo lose six seniors from the 1998-99 squad, including four regular members of the starting line­up. Those players i.nclude team captain and right wing Brian Urick, ltirt wing Aniket Dhadphalc. All-America clcftrnscman Benoit Cotnoir and goaltender Forrest Karr. 
Urick, Dhaclphalc and Cotnoir combined for 319 earner points in 430 combinnd games. Thn otlrnr Irish losses to graduation includu center Craig llagkull and defense­man Scott Giuliani. 
Dunlop -who helped the 
U.S. team play sef'.ond in the USIIL oastcrn division ­could provide tremendous dnpth for Notre Dame contin­gent of cnnters. which includes seniors-to-be Ben Simon and Troy Ragnc and sophomores-to-be David Inman and Bretl Henning. 
Known as a clever playmak­er, thn 5-fool-1 0. 185-pound, Dunlop totaled 46 goals and 56 assists in 136 games with the U.S. Developmental Program during the past two seasons, including 23 goals and 42 assists over 70 games in 1998-99. His father Blake 
Dunlop played 11 years in the National Hockey League with the Minnesota North Stars, Philarlolphia Flyers, St. Louis Blues and Detroit Bed Wings. 
Wroblewski, at 6-foot-1 and 200 pounds. will bring his power-forward style of play lo the Irish program and could play any forward position. As a winger with the U.S. pro­gram. he totaled 32 goals and 
'CONNOR, JOHN AND 
MICHAEL ALL HAVE THE ABILITY TO MAKE A MAJOR IMPACT AS FRFSH· MEN.' 
DAVE POILIN 
/IF:AIJ COAC!/ 
25 assists in 1:{5 games ovflr the past two seasons, includ­ing 19 goals and seven assists in 75 games during 1998-99. A hard worker and tough competitor, he led the U.S. with 11 power-play goals in 1998-99. 
"Connor, John-and Michael Chin-all have the ability to make a major impact as freshmen," said Poulin. "Connor has great all-around ability and is a tremendous competitor and dynamic play­maker-he could end up play­ing in all situations. John has great hands and reach-com­bined a fiery competitiveness and a strong work ethic-and will glve us a great power for­ward who can play on eight wing." 

Harris is a classic stay-at­hom e defenseman who will join an Irish team that returns seven of the top-eight players from a 1998-99 defonse that set the Irish record for team goals-against average. A la.to bloomor who didn't begin playing hockey until he was nearly 10 years old. the 6-2, 195-pound llarris registered four goals and nine assists in two seasons with the U.S. pro­gram while helping anchor one o[ the USIIL's top penalty­killing units. 
Zasowksi -a stand-up goalie known for his com­petitveness and willingness to challenge shooters -is expected to challnnge Kirrrnnlo and junior-to-be Kyle Kolquist for time between Urn pipes. after being namer! a nrst-team USHL all-star. The 5-foot-11, 190-pound Zasowski currently is playing in the USIIL's championship series, the Clark Cup. and ironically is facing shots from one of his future Irish team­mates-Chin-who plays for the rival Des Moines Buccaneers. 
Zasowski set a USI-IL record in 1998-99 for victories and tied a league record with live shutouts, in addition to a league-best 1.96 goals-against average and a .913 save per­centage that earned him goal­tender of the year honors from the USIIL. llis three shutouts in 1998-99 include a 2-0 victory in the first game of the Clark Cup finals. 
Zasowksi also is known for excellent ability in handling 
the puck. an evidenced by his eight assists during the 1lJIJ8­lJIJ season. 
"Paul will arid good sizn and competitivnness to the blue line and has a great knowl­edgn of the game. He has made huge strides with the 
U.S. program and nxcels at so many of the subtle things that make a good defenseman," said Poulin. "Tony nrnlly came on this snason in a very chal­lenging league. lie has a lot of experience under his bell and should be ready for the chal­lenge." 
Chin -who was a nrnmber of the U.S. Developmental Program in 1997 -98-fin­ished tinrl for ·12th in the USIII. regular-season scoring charts, with 54 points in 47 gamns while helping !)cs Moines post a 48-7-I record. Ile has one goal and f'our assists during the postsoason. as thn Bucs have gone 8-:{ and am two wins away from win­ning the Clark Cup Litle, Chin has been part of' a dynamic Des Moines squad that has srit team record for wins, consec­utive wins and honrn nicord while totaling 304 goals. 
Nielsen totaled five goals and 12 assists from the blue line in 1998-99 while earning the Coaches Award. aftnr helping Taft post a 15-8 record that left them just shy of a spot in the night-team New England Championship. In late March, Nielsen parlir.­ipatcd in the annual llockny Night in Boston /\!I-Scholastic Tournament. whern he was named the :vtidwest tnam MVP. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p. 111. at che Nocre D:ime office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. Tl1e Observer reserves rhc right to edit all classifieds for comenr without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR THE SUMMER??? Lovely five-bedroom. single larnily  OAKHILL Two bedroom loft apartment 277-6780  I PERSONAL  Anne Marie is cutest.  Turner and Andy will track down the iron thief and kill her. Becuase Turner and Andy love No. 2. No. 2  
house available for sub-lease.  is No. 1 in their book.  
SUMMER JOB working with my two autistic sons using  About a mile from campus. Safe neighborhood. Clean. Two window  .____FO_R_s_A_L_E_ __.I  Personal  THE FLORIDA EVANS  Boss told me to change it  
behavior modification.  air-conditioners.  SHOWBAND AND REVUE  
Training Provided. Possible  Washer and dryer, stove, refrige.  NEW Rates Phone Cards  Boom!  
work for next semester.  Call 634-0562 for info.  282 min. $20 call 258-4805  When you need copies ...  17 song cd is out now!!!!  
Call Pam@ 273-2761 ILOST & FOUND I  2 bdrm wlloft condo in Oak Hill. Close to campus. Fpl, pool. Avail. 6/1. Grad. students only please.  1980 Triumph convertible $3,500 (277-2684)  We're OPENI!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  one hundred copies sold in the first four days!!! $5$5$5$5$5$5$5$5$5$5$5  I don't have a stapler within reach Mr. Perri, where is our latin prog­ect?  
$700/mo.  BRAND NEW  631-COPY  
Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black  1-509-926·8118.  S O F A  Poinl is, get it now. because time is  Shannon's ad project for her adver­ 
CaseLog1c carrying case. Lost in  4  Mon-Thur: 7:30arn-Midnight  running out. To get one, stop a  tising class is really interesting. Just  
LaFortune the night of 2/26/99. Monetary reward being offered if  Wafk to school All size homes  SALE!  Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm  band member on campus, call 273· 9795, or email curreri.1@nd.edu  take her word for it.  -­ 
lound. No questions asked.  Starting at 185/month/person  Forest Green and Beige Full Size  Sun: Noon-Midnight  and we'll work it out. They are  Models for anything  
Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any  MMMRENTALS@aol.com  Sofa, from Brooks Brother's  being sold at Lula's, as well.  
info  232-2595  Furniture Store, including matching  THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF  Nike had that whole if you let a girl  
pillows, is great for any single or for  THE OBSERVER IS WEDNES­ Connolly, you annoy me, shut up.  play thing  
Large, double pocket L.L. Bean  IT'S NOT TOO LATE  any apartment. Price is very nego­ DAY, APRIL 28.  
l>ackpack w/ P1etasters patch. $50  tiable. Must sell soon! Also, Forest  THE COMMENCEMENT ISSUE  PO· Jamaica???  Good luck Revers, we think you are  
cash reward if returned wtcontents.  3-6 BDRM HOMES. SUMMER OR  Green and Beige Carpet piece, cut  WILL BE ON FRIDAY, MAY 14.  cool  
No questions asked.  FALL.FURN. STARTING  4 a single, that matches the sofa  Yeah, four nights working at the  
call 634-1061  $185/mo/person 272-6551  pertectly, is for sell! (Loft kit pertect  Observer this week! Woohooo!!!  For the love of God, we need a  
for a single is also available, along  sports staff. Please, come work for  
Lost Glasses: black. metal,  House For Rent.  with a University Ethernet Card!)  MOVING? LET US HELP!  Michelle went above and beyond  the Observer sports department  
oval. Salilo frames; clip on  Walk to Campus!!  SENIOR CAN'T WAIT TO GRADU·  1 piece to a house full.  the call of duty the other night but I  next year so we all don't die  
sunglasses; black case.  4-5 Bedroom.  ATE-EVERYTHING MUST  286-7094  forget to write about ii then so I will  
If lound call Paul @ 4-4765  Summer or Fall.  GOii!!!!!!!!!!!!  write about it now  Pizza  
Call289-4712  Contact x1549 and leave message  Any sr.(s) looking 4 a rmmate in  
Found:  Chicago?  Turner, I have a great surprise for  Too late  
Insulin kit with glucomeler in  3 BDRM.DUPLEX  90" Couch  Call Mike 247-9035  you. It will be quite possibly the  
LaFortune Go to Health Center to cta1m  1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 503 EDDY ST  271-8078  ADOPTION-So Cal. cple  greatest moment of your entire life. Iam not kidding either. You will be  Chern 248 Lab final is evil  
WANTED  APPLIANCES + W/D 273-8332  Entertainment center. bookshelves, desk, twin bed Graduatmg seniors must sell  looking lo adopt newborn. Love outdoors/animals,stable,devoted &  very, very, very happy M. Shannon in lhe house. Doing  Drive by show your pie. feel good and then stop complaining about tree classifieds  
38A House.  Call 243-2856  financially secure.  stories about grad students.  
Looking for a really great summer sitter for 3 really great kids!  Complete Remodel-Great Area 1 mile to ND.  88 VW Fox GL $2,500 (John 271 •  Will help wlexpenses.Can provide comlort,support &  Shannon. the Shanmiest, makin' copies. Shannon  23 days  
Flexible hours with perksl Call Ruth 277-6697  AVAIL 5/1 to 8/1/99, Call273·1717  7961)  understanding.Process legal & coAfidential.Call toll free  Colleen, the Collmeisler, doin' her  Don't be a menance to the phantom  
NoShoreClub condo. 2BR  (1-888) 756-0667 pin #4195  report. makin' copies, Colleen  The Vulture knows where its at,  
Moving to Duke??? Looking for a  OFF CAMPUS HOUSING...  I.SBA. Deck. Garage. (219)246­ Karynn/Chns  know what I am saying?  
senior living at Duke for the 1999· 2000 academic year If interested.  FALL 1999 4-8 STUDENTS...SEVERAL  1668  Michelle is the coolest.  I was hoping lo be home by now  I am close now  
call Sarah at 243-1731  CLEAN.SAFE PROPERTIES.  Rollaway twin bed, Like new  put the cdown  
CALL DAVE AT 291·2209  $60. 246-1668  Take a break. See a real live band  almost there..  
Two NO grads need a great  (60's thru 90's rock)  If there are feet and inches, it's  
babysitter for our school-age kids.afternoons 1n May and 1nlo Iha  OFF CAMPUS HOUSING  TICKETS  ART  something, that I don't remember right now. I will have to look at whal  almost there..  
summer.Close to campus.  FALL 1999.. SMALL HOUSE  &  is written on the page  stay on target..  
232-5790.  THE ARTICHOKES  
FOR RENT  PERFECT FOR TWO STUDENTS...  I NEED graduation tickets please call me @ 271-8531  Friday at HEARTLAND  I have the wrong story, I have to import a new one  slay on taget..  ..  
SHORT DRIVE TO CAMPUS  I NEED GRAD TICKETS!  10pm  
BED 'N BREAKFAST  DAVE 291·2209  GIVE SHANNON BACK HER IRON  I can't see ·em. I can't see em!I  
REGISTRY219-291-7153  CALL KELL Y-243-8932  what a scene  SHE WILL PUT A SIGN UP!'!  


''. 

.:.._.::__________________________ _ Tuesday, April 27, 1999
page 16 Tl Observer• SPORTS 
¦ NFL 

'Captain Comebac c' won't be coming back 
-· 
By JOHN MOSSMAN 
.As.~oc};rn:d Pn.·5..) 'X'ritcr 
DENVER 
.John Elwav wants to leave on bis own tcrn;s, and not even the µossibility of a third straight Su1wr Bowl victory will change his mind. 
"Absolul<'lv. l'rn rdired," he said in Tim benvN Post today. "0rw of tlw r<)asons 1 l11dd <iff saying anylhing was to makli sun• it's what I would do. 
"I st•riously considcrnd l'oming back, but I just couldn't make it beniuse of my knee," he said. "I've never liked it when an ath· !Ne says he's retired and tlrnn comes back. Once I've decided, I am certain." 
Broncos spokesman Jim Saccomano said Sunday night the team is aiming for a mid­week news conl'erence, most likely 'vVedncsday. 
Elway, the master of improvi­sation and the latn-game come­back, all bul announced his retirnmenl Saturday in an iutcr­view with Denver TV station KC.NC in Pebble Beach. Calif.. wherr. he was playing in a golf tournament 
''For so many years everything in my family has revolved around me. It's time for that to change," the 38-year-old quar­terback said. "I really accom­plished everything I wanted to. There's no real upside to coming back.~ 
lie reportedly considered announcing his decision two weeks ago, but owner Pat Bowlen was in Australia promot­ing the Broncos' preseason game there. Then last week the announcement was put off because of the school shootings in suburban Denver. 
Out of respect for the victims, some of whose furnirals were scheduled for today, the Broncos further delayed an Elway announcement. 
"I was going to announce it 
b11forc the [NFL] draft, but Mr. 
Bowlen was in Australia," Elway 
told the Post. "Then the tragedy 
happened and I didn't want to 
interfere wilh that." 
'Tve talked to him and he told 
me what he's going to do," 
Broncos coach Mike Shanahan 
said. "But I'm not going to com­
ment. I'm going to let John make 
his announcement." 
Bowlen, while declining to confirm Elway's plans. said at a charity event Saturday night, "I've known this was coming for a long time." 
Bowlen bought the Broncos in 
1984 and never has known a 
team without Elway. "I think it's 
going to be odd for all of us," he 
said. 
Boasting two Super Bowl rings 
as well as lhP. game's MVP 
award, Elway is going out on 

John Elway's Care r Statistics 
Year Comp. Att. 
1983 123 259 
1984 214 380 
1985 327 605 
1986 280 504 
1987 224 4i0 
1988 274 496 
1989 223 416 
1990 294 502 
1991 242 451 
1992 174 316 
1993 348 551 
1994 387 494 
1995 316 542 
1996 287 466 
1997 280 502 
1998 210 356 
top, much like Michael Jurdan did four months earlier. But. unlike .Jordan. Elway leaves behind a team in good l1a.nds. 
For years, the Broncos' offense was a one-Irick pony consisting of Elway and lO other guys. Gradually. the Broneos became less of a showcase for one daz­zling quarterback and more nf' a diversified offense with multiple weapons. 
Now, the two-time Super Bowl champions, still loaded with stars such as Terrell Davis and Shannon Sharpe, must ponder life without magnificent No. 7. 
Running back Terrell Davis told the Post: "This reallv lets some air out of your system. It's going to be tough to come back and not see him in the huddle. 
"I really think this year we're going to face as much adversity as we've ever faced. We're really going to see how much resolve this team has now." 
Offensive guard Mark Schlereth, however, took anoth­er view. 
"I think in the early years, it was a one-man show with John here," Schlereth said. "It's not like that anymore." 
In fact, Elway acknowledged several seasons ago that it wasn't his team anymore. 
"It's Terrell's team now," he said. 
While Elway earned the Super Bowl MVP honor last January with a 34-19 win over Atlanta, he missed all or part of six games with hamstring, back and rib injuries. 
Instead, it was Davis, a 2,008­yard rusher and winner of the league's MVP award, who car­ried the team. 
With Elway gone, Bubby Brister steps in. Brister slipped seamlessly into the lineup last season and guided the Broncos to a 4-0 record in the games he started in place of Elway. He engineered another win in relief. But how will he hold up during a 

V ;. TD INT 
1, i3 7 14 
2, 18 18 15 
3, 11 22 23 
3, 15 19 13 
3, 18 19 12 
3, 19 17 19 
3, ,1 18 18 
3, '.6 15 14 
3, i3 13 12 
2, ,2 10 17 
4, :o 25 10 
3, ,o 16 iO 
3, 'O 26 14 
3, '.8 26 14 
3, i5 27 11 
2, 16 22 10 
16-Lmc schedule'? And will Brii r at QB put more pressure on I vis'? 
\\ le expressing confidence in Bri ll', Shanahan apparently has ,me qualms. 
B ~ter, who turns 37 in Au~ ,t, hasn't starl<ed more than eigl games in a season since 19c The backup is Brian Gri ,c, a third-round draft cbc :e in 1998 with limited exp ience. 
S the Denver Rocky Mo 1tain News reported, the Brc ~os sought backup insur­arn Saturday by agreeing to sig, :hris ~iller, who turns 34 in / gust and retired four years ago ecause of concussions. 
B ;ter is looking forward to talc ~ over an offense that tight end harpe likened to a Ferrari. 
"l 1st want to get in there and rur he best machine in the bus ess," he said. 'Tm not stu­pid know I'm not in this alone. We ia.ve Terrell Davis and Sh, non Sharpe and great rec rers and a great line. We ha, ,o much to work with." 
._;~~999 CoNCEsSiON' SrA~o ' •· F00o sER.v1cE TRAiN1N<i
. . ' . . . . . . . . -_ . .' .: .. . . :. : .-~ . . ·. . .
~· 


Get your training out of the waynow! 
Don't wait until it's too late! 
lfyou"rc coordina1ing a co1u.·ession stand for the 1999 football seasmn, \'OU musi have at least one person at your stand at all fi1n;s who ha~ been certified in food service. training. 
Tuesday, April 9.7 1999 
4:00 PM SHARP! 
Notre Dame Room 
in the LaFtlrru11c Srridem Center 
COOIWINATE.D BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OfflCE ;; conjunction with Catering by Design and llisk \Janagcmcnt & Safrty 
Questum.,? P.'eai·e ,·on1ac1 /lyan /11 the S1:,de111 Ac1·vi1i~i 0((,ce 11J u:/111g r'd1 

Miller replaces Elway c,111~~•"~ 
As~J Pi:e.s~ .Brlatr.Gri.esi.liare.. '?', othe1;quarterbacks'.DENVER·.. Mifie.r was'Atlari~ift1rst­
The Denver Btoncos on rounf}idraft pfokin 1ijS7 ouf Monday agreed tQj9nt1: ..9f·Q,i;: . . ";,sl)4 terms with w1restrMed f:. . . !HS~->'1"98 a~ent quarte:bac~ Chris 3'.10p:yards•WJth ;2,;,,,Jf\.l~ Miller, who ret1red,aJter the dpwti$-an ·irtt~. ··' · 1995 seas9ri beca.ilse of ar< :fu. '.i9?:li '~S,w series of com:ussions. to the Pfo Bo,vl. . 
Miller, 33, proviqes the, ..• HeJt1isSl:ld:~qsFo[;~.~199~.,,.. Broncos with bacJ.(.JJP,.Jmn1r"< :ancbl99!ksett4tirtS;bt1catise;oi1JO ance hecauso of tbe lo.ss of . a knee injury: Aftef:"sfgning: JfJhn Elway, who wiU make '\,\,ith the Rams, he threw for hL<s retircmont announcmneqL / 2;JQ4,yard$. i!i,t994;'.~d for;}\:.
Sunday. Bubby Brist~r and, . 2:62l.bi1915/ ....... ,,, , ,. · 

,,, 

Tuesday, April 27, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
----~------------------------------------------------------------.:.__-=---­
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Tigers blast past Mariners, 7-0 
Auocialcd Press 
SEATTLE 

.Juan Encarnacion a11d Karim l,it re ia hom ernd off .I am iu !\luynr, and Brian Monhler shut clown Seatllr as tho l>droit Tigers beat the Mariners 7-0 Monday night. 
Monlllnr U-21. who pitched thrnl' shutouts last snason, allowPd S1\VPII hits in snvnn innings. striking out two and walking 1101w. Doug Brocail ,llld Ml'! l!ojas t'inbhcd with 1wrf'p1•t rnliPf. 
Moy1•r 11-:l J lost in his l'irst start si11rn sig11i11g ,l $1 ;i mil­lion. two-vnar <·ontrad oxtnn­sion that inukes him tlrn high­t'St-µaid pitdrnr in tlw history of' th<' Marinl'rs. 111• gavP up f'ivl' runs. l I Ii its and tlir<'o walks in SHV(Hl innings, strik­ing out SPVl'n. 
Moynr. whoS<! EH/\ dropped to 7 .<,4. has allow11d Pil{ht ho1111• n111s. ti1HI with Tampa Bay's Holando Arrojo for Urn 11111st in thl' ;\I.. Mariners pitrlwrs havti allowPd 2(, ho11rnrs Lhis season. second in llw IPagun lo Mintrnsota 1291. 
l>Ptroit tied a season high wilh 15 hits. with hncarnacion and Palnwr Pach going 3-for­
5. The Tigers got tlwir second shutout ur tlw season. while Snat.tlo was hlank1~d ['or Lhe firsl limn. 
llnt.roil. which ended a Sl'_Vl'll•ganw road losing stniak Sunday at Chicago. WPnt alrnad in tlw s11co1HI when llPan l'alnwr doubled and st"ori~d 011 1:ncarnacion's sin­g!P. Llwn added two runs in llw l'il'Lh on Encarnal'ion's !111nwr and Bobby l!igginson's Hill singln. 
(;arria hil his f'irsl homnr of tlw SPason in tlin sixth and addPd an HBI singlP in tlw sev­i•11th. Damion Easley hit a lwo­run singl<' in tlw Pighth off \frl B111wl1. 
Twins 6, Hcd Sox 2 
Torii lluntnr pretty much end1Hl Minnesota's five-losing streak all by himself. 
Hunter hit a grand slam, drove in a career-high five runs and made two key defen­siv<i plays in center field to lead Urn Twins ovnr the Boston lfocl Sox 6-2 Monday night. 
Brad lladke (2-2) scattered eight hits in six innings and struck out four lo win his lirst gamn since tlw Twins' openf1r April.<, llunt<'r aided him with a homo run-saving catch and a st.rung throw to the plate in llrn sixth inning. 
lluntnr's fourth-inning grand slam off Tim WaknfielJ (] -31 ramn after Matt Lawton led off with a walk, Hon Coomer sin­gIed and .Jason Varitt1k aclvancocl thn runners with a passed ball. 
Wakefield came back lo striko out Todd Walknr and Terry Steinbach, thrn walked Chad /\lien on a :1-2 count and allowed l lunter·s third home run of the srason. his first earner slam. on the following pitch. 
WakdiPld, beaten by thf1 Twins for the second time in ninn career starts. gave up six runs. five hits and four walks in :i 1-3 innings. 
llunter saved two runs in the sixth when he robbed Mike Stanley ol' a potcntial homcr with a well-timed leaping catch at thn cen lcr-field l'Pnce. Then. with llrn bases loadod latnr in thi1 inninl{, Jason Varitek flied to center and llunter's strong throw to tlrn platn forcnd Heggie Jefferson to hold at third. Hadke struck out Trot Nixon to end tlrn lhrnat. 
llunler and llenny !locking addNI HBI singles in the sixth. \1ik1' Tromblny pitchnd the tlm~P innings !'or his first savn. 


Bost.on stranded 12 runners in tlrn first eight innings. The Red Sox got their only run in the first inning when Jose Offerman singlnd and scored on John Valentin's double, 
Jefferson hit a solo homP run, his first of the year, in the ninth. 
Astros 5, lliamondhacks 2 
.Josn Lima won his third straight start and Jeff Bagwflll a.nd Hichard llidalgo drove in two runs each. leading the Houston !\strus over the Arizona Diamondbacks ;i-2 Monday night. 
Lima ( 3-1) allowed both runs and snven hits in eight innings, struck out four and walked two, retiring 11 of 13 in ono stretch. Billy Wagner finislrnd for his sixth sav11. 
Todd Stottlemyre (2-1 l lost for the first time in five starts this season, allowing all ['ivc runs -just three earned ­and six hits in six innings with five walks and four strikeouts. 
Arizona. which had won six of' its previous seven games. is 8-2 at home but :{-7 on the road. The Diamondbacks out­hit the Astros 7-6. 
Houston managed only one hit in the first four innings but led 2-0 on a pair of unearned runs in the fourth. Bell reachnd when shortstop Tony Batista bobbled his grounder for an error, stole second and scored on Bagwell's single. One out later. Stottlemyre walked Carl Everett, Hidalgo and Tony Eusebio. forcing in a run, 
Bagwell hit an HBI double in the fifth and Hidalgo added a two-run singlP Collowing an intnntional walk to Everntt. 
Luis Gonzalez hit a run-scor­ing doubln in the sixth for Arizona. which added a run in tho ninth on Travis Lee's Hl31 
Getting a yrar's worth of stuff Into a car is likr trying to 
RYDER 
rram IO pounds into a 5 pound sack. You've crammrd 
TBS 
ennu~h for a while_ Give yourself a hrrak. Call Ryder and trurk ii -at thr right prier. 
www.yellowtruck.com 
Advanced reservation required. Present this coupon at the time of your rental. 
,

r 
I Coupon only applirnbk to basic ratr of truck rental, which does nnt include I taxes, fuel and 11ptlonal Items. One coupon per rrntal. Coupon subject lo truck I avallablllty and Ryder Moving Servkes standard rental requirements, Coupon cxpin•s Dcmuhrr 31, 2000. 
s10:

I 
Coupon not valid with any other offer, discount or promotion. 
Discount
I Off I 
One-Way Local I
1-800-GO-RYDER

Moves Moves
I 
Rydrr' ls a rrgish'll'd lradl'lnark of Rydt·r Syslem. lnr. and ls osed under license. 
Note to lkalcr: I. Enter dlsrnunt on rates screen. 2, Enter Coupon 1.0. on payment screen. NC030 3, i\ttal'h lo n•nt:il agn•1•ment and send In with werkly ll'port. RA Numbl'r ___~--.J

I I 
L 
double. 
Braves 5, Marlins 3 

Andruw Jones hit a two-run homer and scored on a double steal, and Walt 
Weiss hit a tie-breaking RBI single in the ninth inning to help the Atlanta Bravns beat the Florida Marlins 5-3 Monday night. 
With the score 3-all, .lavy Lopez singled to start the ninth against Antonio ;\lfonsPca (0-3) and advancPd on a sacrifice. 
.Jonos was intentionally walkPd hv Matt Mantci. and Lopez sc~Jrnd when Weiss' grounder glanced off the glove of a diving Dorrck Lon at first base. 
Atlanta added another run later in the inning. With run­ners at first and third. pitcher Hudy Seanez missed an attempted squeeze bunt, catching Jones off' third. But he scorud and the Braves were creditpd with a doublo steal when the Marlins botched the rundown. 
Seanez (1-0) pitched 1 1-3 innings to complet11 tho five­hitter. Kevin Millwood allowed four hits in 7 1-3 innings and left with a 3-2 lead, 
The Braves took the series 3­1 and finished 8-3 on a 15-day road trip, their longcst of the season. 
Florida came from behind twice and tied the score at 3 in the eighth with one hit and three walks. Bruce Avon sin­gled to lead off and advanced on a sacrifice. · 
Millwood walked Alex Gonzalez. and with two outs reliever Kevin McGlinchy walked pinch hitter Len and Kevin Orie. forcing in a run. 
Todd Dunwoody hit an HBI triple in the fourth, then scored on 0rie's singlo lo give Florida a 2-l lead. 
Atlanta went alwad in thP seventh when Handall Simon doubled and Jones followed with his third homPr. .lonPs also tripled leading off tlw third and scored on Otis Nixon's two-out singlP. 
Nixon rnached IPading olT the eighth on a thrre-basP throwing error by pitchPr Dennis Springnr, but the Braves f'ailc~ to g<'t Llw runnl'r home. 
Cubans 
prep for 
May visit 
Associated Press 
HAVANA 
Star shortstop German Mesa, plt.cher .Josti Contreras and third baseman Omar Linares arll among 48 players being considered by Cuban officials for an all-star team that will visit the Baltimore Orioles on May :l, 
The Cuban government does not in tend to announce the exact 25­man roster until shortly lH~fore next Monday night's exhibition gamn at Camden Yards. 
"Each plans their stratngy to tlwir goals and ours is to maintain our continental and world supremacy," the Communist Party work• ers' daily newspaper Trabajadores said Monday. 
"No one shows their cards and this is nu exception." 
Contreras struck out 10 in eight scoreless innings against the Orioles on March 28 in Havana, a game the Cubans lost 3-2 in 11 innings. Linares, one of the country's greatest­players ever, hit a key RBI single. 
The Cuban team that played that afternoon at Latinoamericano Stadium did not include some of the island's top players, who were involved at. the time in the national baseball series. 
Mesa was among those who missed out. He started ahead of future Gold Glove shortstop Hey Ordonez of the New '¥ork Mets when they both played on tl111 tiavana lndustriales. 
Later this year, a Cuban national team will play in the Pan American Games in Winnipeg, Alberta, and the International Cup in Sydney, Australia. 

-f%1­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
END OF THE 
YEAR MASS! 
Sunday, May 2, 1999 
9:00 PM Churth of Our Lady of Loretto 
There will be NO masses in the residence halls May 2nd. 
-
-

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 27, 1999 
_
..... 
-
--,r 
¦ NFL 
Redskins may 
name new owner 
By JOSEPH WHITE Associated Press Writer 
ASHBURN, Va. 
The Washington Redskins have another sale agreement for $800 million, meaning coach Norv Turner and gen­eral manager Charley Casserly will keep their jobs if the deal goes through. 
Prospective buyer Daniel Snyder, a communications executive, and trustees of Jack Kent Cooke's estate announced an agreement today. 
The sale, which must be approved by NFL owners, includes Jack Kent Cooke Stadium and the $800 million would be a record price a North American sports fran­chise. 
Snyder said he will retain Turner and Casserly ror the 1999 season. He also sent a letter to employees at Redskin Park, notifying them that all their jobs are safe, 
"Football will be a new business for me," SnyderstiJd. "And I am going to ci:~eed experienced football pei'~oi.1­nel to run the team." · ·­
Snyder was a partner with Howard Milstein in an $800 million bid that was with­drawn this month when it was apparent it would not be approved by NFL owners.· 
This time, Snyder head$\he league office, we believe the financing and ownership structure will comply with NFL rules," the trustees said in a stalement. 
Unlike the sweeping changes expected at Hetlskin Park had the Milstein-Snyder bid prevailed, Snyder is keep­ing everyone for now. 
A source close to Snyder. speaking on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press that Snyder will not clean house in part because the draft has already taken place. spring practices have begun and it would maintain continuity to keep Turner and Casserly at least one more year. The Redskins haven't made the playoffs since 1992. 
Also, the c.ommHment to retain Turner artd Ci;1,sserlv is expected to gain favor with some NFL owners as when they prepare to vote on the sale. 
Snyder had strongly hinted at changes when he was part­nered with.J\.1il::,tein, express­
ing ~is d  ·  •'Yin and fol­ 
lowing i~  ;n,tipents.$UQp  
as ''We\1  .·.  .·.­ g~t the right  

people." Vinny·Certato, for­mer director ofplayer person­nel with San'Francisco, was even hired to prepare for the draft.. 
But J\.1Ust puUed out of -the process · · eagµe meet­

¦ KENTUCKY DrnBY 
Familiar faces dominate Derby field 
group by himself. His '!Xli11otity . ing on A. • be~1;1,Il}e partners include familY:'tn..ein~ obvious __ not have bers, publishing exe@tive the 24 of h'3rs' voles Mort Zuckerman and needed for apptovaL Some Zuckerman's longtime busi-owners said Milstein was bor­ness associate, Fred brasner. rowing toQ much money fo 
SAyder, 34, stands. to finance his ()-fthe. hid, become the league's yo1.fngest and. othe onpern.!ld current oWner. The $8 · .that he ·-· lion·J)urohase pfjl' · µ,9rl11,Fshatter the $530 mill 'Srly by Alfred Lerner last Y!lJ:t' for more read the expansion Glevehu1d more than • T. e Browns. trustees, h id the 
Snyder's bid will be exam-errors · th d the ined by the NFL's finance Milstein bi orked committee and most likely closely wit ·e andwin be submjtted.. bgfore .._. met withe r Paul 
league owners at. thelr fy+a,y:/. Ta.glia.qlJii:} !},t, 'thi~I 25-26 meetings in AtlaJlta.. · .. time, tpe,~, _-_ -. .. . . _ ittb'l);t;;i,ri "Based of our own review.,. offer that has if good chance and our discussions with the · of approval. 
Classes are starting now! 
Call today to reserve your seat. Sign-up Here, STUDY ANYWHERE! 
With over 160 Kaplan Centers to choose from, you can start a class here and finish over the summer. 
Class starts May 5 

~ 
Int eader 
1-800-KAP-TEST ~ 
www.kaplan.com 
•LsAT is a registered trademark of the Law School Admission Council. 
60 YEARS OF BUILDING FUTURES. ONE SUCCESS STORY AT A TIME. 


Associated Press 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. 
Bob, Wayne and Nick havn combined to win the Kentuckv Derby six times in the 1990s. and it wouldn't be surprising if one of the trainers is in the winner's circle again Saturday. 
"I fenl good about this Derby," Bob Ba!Tert said. 'Tve got two horses who are con­t~rnders. I hope one of them wins." 
II' General Challenge or Prime TimbN -first and sec­ond, respectively. in the Santa Anita Derby -does win, Baffert will be the first person in any racing capacity to win the Kentucky Derby thn~e straight years. 
The last horseman to be in position to win three straight was Wayne Lukas. He sent out Thunder Gulch to win in 1995 and followed with Grindstone, but in 1997 his Deeds Not Words finished 13th as Baffert won with Silver Charm. Baffert's winner last year was Real Quiet. 
Lukas will try to return the favor at Churchill Downs when he sends out Charismatic and Cat Thief. 
"I think the horses that are battle-tested will be there at the end," said Lukas, whose two colts certainly are just that. 
Charismatic, fourth in the Santa Anita Derby and a win­ner of the Lexington at Ke1meland, will be making his 15th start. Cat Thief, winless in four starts this year but second twice and third once in Grade I stakes in his last three, will be going to the post for the 12th time. 
'Tm grateful to be in this position," said Nick Zito, who will try to win his first Derby since 1994 (Go for Gin) with Adonis. winner or the Wood Memorial 11t Aqueduct. and Stephen Got Ev1:n, winner of the Gallery Furniturn.corn at Turfway Park. 
Zito likes the Derby rivalry he's formed with Baffcrt and Lukas. 
"1 would love Lo finish it off," he said of winning the fi n a I De r by or t lrn ·9 0 s . " I would love to havc that honor." 
Zito also said he didn't want lo seen the 1990s end with four trainers have two Derby wins apiece. That would hap­pen should Carl Nafzgcr win with Jilorida Derby winner Vicar. Nafzgcr won in 1990 with Cnbridled, his only previ­ous Derby starter. 
Besides Naf'zger. the only Derby-winning trainers in the last nine years not named Baffert. Lukas or Zito were Lynn Whiting (I.ii E. Tee 1992) and l\lac Miller (Sea Hero, 1993), 
'Tm not a rivalry guy," Baf'fert said when asked about Lukas and Zito. "! won the last two. so I don't s1w it as a rivalry." 
"I don't think of' it that way," Lukas said when asked about rivalry. "Each or these things is a separate race," he said. In other words, the real stars of the show -the hors­es -are different every year. 
But Lukas also said with a smile, "One guy's got three Derby wins and the other two guys have two, so it's r.atching up for them." Lukas also won the Derby with thn filly Winning Colors in 1988. 
Lukas worked both of his colts five-eights of a mile in the rain Monday. Cat Thief worked in company with another colt and went 1:02. Charismatic worked in 1 :02 3­5. Miko Smith will rid<' Cat Thiel' on Saturday and Chris Antlnv will bP aboard Charis.matic. 
"They W<'l"P just workouts," 
Lukas said. "I don't put mtwh 
stock in workouts." 
13Pcausl' of' th1• rain and 
sloppy trm·k, Zito postponPd 
Adonis' workout until 
Tu()sday. St1•phnn Cot EvPn 
worknd f'iv1•-nighLhs of' a mill• 
in company Saturday in I :02 
2-S. Chris Mr.Carron, who will 
ride in tlrn lkrby. was up for 
thn workout. .lorgp Chavc-z 
will ride Adonis. 
Adonis will I)(' making his 
s1we11th car<'()r start. whil<' 
StPphnn Got Evnn will bP 
making his sixth. 
HafTl•rt. who possibly could 
nntPr the filly ExcPIIPnt 
Mneting in the l)prby, worknd 
nach of' his colts thrP1•-quar­
tns of' a mi!P last Friday. 
T h n s t ra p pi n g C n 1w r a 1 ChallnngP is set to makP his sixth start. Prime Timbl\r will go to tlrn post !'or tlw siwPnth time. 
It appnars a f'ull lkld ol' 20 
3-ynar-olds will bP l'lll<~rPd 
WPd1rnsdav. Tlw lkrby is lim­
itnd to 2() startnrs b;tsl'(l on 
monny narnPd in gradPd 
stakes. 
The fate of' Arkansas lkrbv 
wi111rnr Valhol rnmains 
unclear, Owner James 
Jackson sLwd Arkansas racing 
author it it~ s on :vt on day, 
demanding they rPlnasn tlrn 
winn11r's share from tlrn April 
10 race at Oaklawn Park. 
Valhol most liknly will nol q u a Ii fy for the Kn n tur.k y Derby without thn $:rno,000 winnings. The money was hold up because jockey Billy Patin might have carried an illegal eloctrical dcvic<\. 
A hearing on Jackson's poti­-lion is scheduled for Tuesday in Arkansas. · 

Tuesday, April 27, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
¦ NCAA FOOTBALL 
Brees' day prepares QB for 1999 expectations 
By RLX W. HUPPKE known as thn Cradle of football star. Just another guy playing in the Big Ten. Brees pulls his Clrnvy Tahon into A'-soci.ared Press. Writer Quarterbacks by producing with short-cropped hair and It appears he made a good the parking lot of' Thomas Millnr players like Bob Gri1ise, Mike decent grades, currently a :i.2 choice. In coach Joe Tiller's Elementary School in Lafayette. WEST IAFAYETTE. Ind. Phipps and Jim Everett. Brees is GPA. pass-heavy offense. Brees· num­As he entors Hoom I 0, shrill 
ll's (1 a.m. and l>rnw Brm1s is just the hnir-apparent. a f'act Fifty minutes of' note taking bers piled up. little voicos erupt: "Drnw!" sP11i1•d at the Pnd of a Jong row that carbnnatos his cmnpelitive and Hrees is out the door. on the "Some quarterbacks that Once a wnek. Brees voluntonrs of slalionary bikrn,. l!)gs pump­juicr.s. way to the Sports Medicine we've boon around, when it gets al the school. lwlpi11g a madcap ing. musdcs loosnning up as Last stmson ho Ind Urn Big Ten Center for tehabilitation on his down into a really ditncult situa­group of second graders work ;111olhl'r day hrnaks. in passing. throwing for 3,983 right fool. lie had a bone chip tion you kin<l of limit what on tlrnir reading and math skills. 
Ignoring llw chatter that fills yards. :3 11 touchdowns and 20 removed and tnndon repaired in you're going to do," Tiller said. Brees folds himsoll' into omi of' thn 1'11rdt1P Univ11rsity f'ield­intllrcHplions. the off-season. "With Drew there are no limita­the classroom's tiny chairs as a housP, Im lixns his uyps on some Brnos admits that was gn•at. Hotaling his ankle back and tions. We'll call anything." group of kids surround him. distant point. past t.lw orange but not ncarly great enough. forth on a metal pad, Urn quar­Brees' starling season culrni­Though no linnlmr.kors am nu:­1·011ns Llrnt. li1w tlw l\strnturf, "I dmi't cvor want to stop uni.ii terback thinks ahout how he nated when the underdog ing al him and no play clock's past his BoilPrmaknr tnammatf's I com pinto 100 percent of my wound up al Purduo. Boilers marched into the Alamo are licking down. tlw quartnr­stn1tchi11g out for praclkn. passtis in a ganw." lw said. He's the product of a competi­Bowl to meet Kansas State, a bar.k is as focused and conf1dm1l 
Tlw 20-ynar-old quarlf1rba('k /\ lofty goal. hut just Lry to get tive l'amily. Mom was all-state in team that was expectnd lo con­us he would bP in a ganrn. is coming off a sophomorn soa­him to say it can'l bf1 done. H's throe high school sports. dad tend for tho national champi­"I low'd I got il all wrong'?" 8­so11 in which lw shattnrml Big like trying lo gnt his attention played basketball at Texas onship. ycar-olcl Mandy Farr(dl askNI, 'l'N1 passing rn!'orcls, madn an once he's lak(\ll a snap. Eyes A&M. his uncle was a University Brees stops moving his foot pointing to a workslrnet of' math Elway-csqtw rnnwback lo hPal. locked in as the play unfolds. of Texas All-American, and the around for a moment and low­problems. Kansas Statn in Urn Alamo Bowl Focused. list goes on. ers his voice. "I don't know," Brnns said. and lrnard his nanw botllH'Pd Forgot about it. Ile start(id out young as a ten­"Never once did I think that "But wp'rc going to gnt it all around as a pot1mtial llcisnrnn Entering his dorm's cafeteria, nis player -No. 1 in Urn state or we couldn't win that game," ho right now. Lnt's do the rirst rnndidate. Drnw shnds some of his intensi­Texas at age 12 -and also said. "We knew we could beat one." 
As a horn sounds and nclHws ty, grabs a tray of food and sits played soccer. them." Once the class nnds and Hrccs Lhrou~h llw chilly ffoldl10usil. down with a couple teammates. "Ever since he really got start­The Boilermakers drove 80 returns to tho parking lot, Im lfr1)1•s pops off' tlw hikn with /\t tlrn 1rncl of' thci table. lan ed in organized athletics. it's yards for a touchdown in thP­can't snom to slop laughing. l'avlovian diligm1cn and sprints Allen. an offensive linoman, been pretty much non-stop, fin al minute to beat Kansas "I love 'cm all," ho said. i11to formati!ln wilh t.lrn rnst of' rnaclms f'or a glass and knocks a going from one season to the State 37-34. tlw t11am. salt shakor ov1\r. Conversation next," says Brees' father, Chip "I think that last drive against 2::rn p.m. 
I IP tri1:s lo kt:i•p Llw drnams -continues, but Drew starts to Brees. Kansas State, I think that proba­tlw ones thut lloat through the lidg11t, looking <lown tho table at It wasn't until his freshman bly put him right in the thick of As he warms up for his after­lwad or any kid who's nvnr /\!Inn. yoar in high school that Brees the Heisman next year," ESPN noon weight lifting, Brees is chuckPd a f'ootball -tucknd "Do me a favor," Brees said, first played full-contact football. college football analyst Lee back to bPing a f'oolhall player. JH11llly in U ('(Jrllf]f or his mind. "and please throw some salt Ile wont straight to quarter­Corso said. "When you look at llis red-headed roommatn, I le donsn't want thPm dnucling over your shouldnr." backing. the kind of thing Heismans are lincbacknr Jason l.onrznl, gives thilll{S. 011m1 complies. . .. "I always wanted lo be the one made of. it's heroics like that." him a few jabs and says he's tlrn 
Today. after all. is just another You worn scarmg mo man, in control of the ball. just like all only one who knows the real day. Brer,s said. "I would've worried kids do." he said with a boyish 11:45 a.m. Drew Brees story. about you all day if you hadn't grin. But as Brees walks away. 8a.m. clone that." Though he led Westlake lligh Following an art history class. Loerzel becomes sincc~re. School to a Class 5A Division II Brees has just enough time to "Bef'ore Im was anything. 
"It's cold'" Bnws nxclainrnd. 8:30 a.m. state championship his senior stop for lunch. everybody liked him," Loerzel walking from morning practice year, Brees went unnoticed by It's here -over a light meal said. "When he was just the lnu'.k Lo his dorm for br11akf'ast. Brees -slings his navy blue the big Texas schools he'd of two orders of chicken backup. I really haVfm't smm a 
Thn Texas native admits he backpack onto a desk and takes hoped to attend. A knee injury nuggets, a bacon cheeseburger. change in him, except that his hasn't quite acljustt!d to llrn icy a s1mt in a class of' about 30 peo­during his junior year may have a cup of chili and a dessert -day's a lot busier." winds of central Indiana. plP -Managerial Accounting. a led to the snub. that Brees acknowledges he Following his work out. Brnes 
Though the chill may bring corn class in his management The only schools that may be on the brink of some­watches film until 5 p.m., v.hen him down, tlw morning practice degree program. expressed an interest were thing great. he returns to the fioldhouse for has him pumped up. Brnes A vocal leader on the field. Kentucky and Purdue. Brees "When I first came to school I throwing practice. knows that much of' tlrn confi­Brees settles into class as just knew if he went to Kentucky was just trying to be realistic," He warms up throwing perfect dPnc1• that surrounds this year's anotlwr student. At 6-foot 1-he'd be silting behind Tim he said. 'Tm not real big. I don't 25-yard strikes. Boom. boom, lmun focusPs on his right arm. inch. he doesn't stand out as Couch for a couple years. have a rocket for an arm. I'm boom. 
It's nol a new scenario al unusually tall and he's not Purdue seemed the best option, not that fast. Heceiver A.T. Simpson smi11is. 
l'urdl!P. a srhool that bccanrn brawny enough to bc pegged a and he loved the thought of "I never, ever thought that my "It's good," he said. "lln name would be in the same sen­makes us all look good." tence as Hcisman." The ball is snappnd -he 
But now it is, and he knows he looks it over -nothing-;-noth­must keep striving toward that ing -nothing -hang: 15-yard goal without letting the goal gain. itself be a distraction. Snap -Brees looks left ­
"I still have a lot of work to looks down the middle -pow do," he said. "I have~ a positive -threads it. just over two con­attitude, but I just know that I verging del'nnsive playnrs: can get so much bntter." touchdown. · 
And he also knows he has to "1 just fonl like I'm in control get going. A group of his biggest back there," Brees said. "It just fans await him. feels so good when I'm in llrn 
/\ couple miles from campus. game." 

~"'1"1 
The Real Enchilada.

... 

IN TOWN FOR THE SUMMER? 
NE H? 

-
SERVERS 
HOSTS SUPPORT STAFF FULL/PART TIME 
DON PABLO'S 4160 GRAPE ROAD 
-

254-9395 


page 20 
¦ NHL 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
A disputed third-period goal gave the Carolina Hurricanes undisputed possession of the lead in their playoff series against the Boston Bruins. 
Andrei Kovalenko's skate was in the crease when the puck got past Byron Dafoe 2:54 into the period. The Hurricanes then held on for their second straight 3-2 win and took a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference quarterfinal Monday night. 
Game Four is scheduled for Wednesday night in Boston. 
With the score tied at 2, Kovalenko was credited with the goal after Robert Kron passed the puck from behind the goal line to Dafoe's left. The puck appeared to precede Kovalenko into the crease and ricochet off Dafoe. 
Officials reviewed the play on video as Boston coach Pat Burns yelled at them. 
The Bruins split the first two games in Carolina, but a return home wasn "t enough to give them the series lead. In last year's playoffs, they were 0-3 at home in losing the first round to Washington in six games. 
The Bruins have lost their last four playoff series, while the Hurricanes are in the playoffs for the first time in seven sea­sons, two in Carolina after mov­ing from Hartford. 
Goals by Carolina's Gary Roberts and Ray Sheppard, who scored to win Game 2 in over­time. and Boston's Sergei Samsonov and Anson Carter left the game tied after two periods. 
Dafoe, who led the NHL with 10 regular-season shutouts and added one in the playoff opener, lost his bid for another just 1 :05 into the game. 
That's when Roberts scored his first goal of the playoffs. Jeff 

The Observer• SPORTS 
O'Neill put the puck in front of the net to the left of Dafoe, who sprawled after it. Roberts then gained control and scored from in close on the first shot of the game. 
It was the earliest playoff goal in franchise history. The previ­ous record was Dean Evason's goal 1:06 into a 5-4 loss to Quebec on April 16, 1987. 
The Bruins tied the game at 
9:48 of the first period with excellent teamwork. Landon Wilson bumped Dave Karpa off the puck in the right corner and passed back along the right boards to Joe Thornton. He quickly relayed the puck across the slot, where Samsonov con­nected from 15 feet against goalie Arturs Irbe. 
Boston went ahead with its first goal on nine power plays in the series when Carter scored at 
13:07 of the second period on a deflection of Jason Allison's blast from the right point. 
Homes for Rent 


• 
Domus Properties has two, five, six and nine bedroom student housing available 

• 
Student neighborhoods close to campus 

• 
Security systems provided 

• 
Well maintained homes 

• 
Maintenance staff on call 



-
Available for the 1999/2000 school year 
Contact Kramer {219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or {219) 233-4509 
Tuesday, April 27, 1999 

> .. \'C< i\···•·. ·.·, ·.·· .. ··..... . ·.· ..··PHllAOELPHIA 9x,.a.9tlyWflfth(} ~aplq Leafs signed Curtis. Joseph. 
tJa4:0 .saves as the Toronto Maple Leafs heat the ~3l •N:9;1ldttf nlgl\t. taking command in their first-round $Ql't,e$..;'The )'faple Lotl,fs took a 2, 1 lead in the sei'ies getting oiitshot41.2L 
i} ,< 1't nutpliwe~ t<)y~r~ ~oaltender John Vanbiesbrouck, who b;i'.gl1clq th:\? Le'~(S$t()~'e.les$i,nthe lirst118 minutes ol'the series. 
· B'µ~ t(}>rtmto might,baw turned tlm momentum of the sorics with ·two 
oats irrthe final two mlnu,tes ofGttme Two. It carried over to
···ag/µTle, 
.,, e. ... trflrs,•playingwithtmtinjurfld superstar Eric Lindros, are fitlI'.jp ~vm:;-gani:e'$/Jries in, which they trail 2.1, Philadelphiahas lost five ofits last six home playoff games. 
Steve Thomas,. maligned th Philadelphia for a hard check on 
. ~rJc;pi;isjardinsin fuo second g~me, scored tho game-wmncr on a pow~r play 40 seconds into the second period. It snapped an O­for'l5 ~ower~pla>" drought in the series, and O-for-33 including t}1c, t,ind of the r~b'l.l.lar season. . . 
·M1ke Johns.on .also scored for the Lea,fs, (\nd Km·I Dykbuis scored the Flfets' only goal ..:.._.. a shot thM Joseph didn't see Qef~qse he ~as screened. 
PJ:Jiladelphia was O•fot~5 on ·power plays, including a 6-on-4 ady411ta~e. ip thefinal65 se¢ondswhen it pulled Vanbiesbrouck. 
Joseph, nickt1amed "Cujo/'was magoificent. He made l 1 saves in•the third, sttipptog ,John ·LeClair from the side of the net for saye·No. 3.3~ ··.·. . •· ··. · . . . . 
lli~r35th sav& was spectai;ular, too. Joseph tipped Ki.iith Jones' dqs<"~itdia.ckhander with his skate, then stopped a shot from the point and a rebound for saves No>38 arid 39. He finished the job 
4.112 IB,inµJ~$Jeft, ah~rb~g ashot by Rod Brind'Amour ~t Mdl?11~ncirig"'m·therebound. · ·hai:Lpe~ miffed bj1J1ard checks by Kris. King and 
,, but thlil chippy play that some expected 
.,6~f. Pylchw$ \Vaited for. LeClair's screen to Ii l?liqt thatwllizzed p¢tween LeClair and ~~tjt ovetJ9spph'S rIW1t shoulder with 3:44 l)S~plr{ stgne~ llS wfree. agent las.t summer' l:ift:and did!J.'tsee the puck until itwas in the 
' t .Yas' s~gft..Iive(I forthe Flyers, who were goaf 10.••secon~sJat~r-·(hr}s McAllister. · · afte.r th:~ faceoff.11t center ice. Pi ,;l"opgspn•. HJsjveak back­
. · · · d his stickih the air and oflhis skate. 

SILVER HA\NKS 
Colle:1e Ma,cA.--.errNl'jht~ 
Sponsored by WRBR Wednesday April 2B 

Yov Get 1 Refevve~ Seat Ticket All Yav Ca..-. fat Bv{(et '7-7p,,-. Live Mvf ic {vo,,-. 'cHi~h Stveet'\ (6vate(vl De:act Covev B:a.... c.t> 
.,Hi5h Street'' 

Playf 1 hour 
he{ove &_ 1 1-iovl' a{tev the G-a,..,e 
f Rff 5tv{{ {vor--, WRBR 
'li.iesday, April 27, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
Track 
continued from page 24 
rPally nxcitml to run t.hn I 00, I havnn't. got to do it all yPar -.. 
lier tinw found lrnr in thn rncord hooks with lhn third l'astt'st lilllt' in school history wit.h lwr 11 .82 socond victo­ry. Shn also broke a rncord in tlrn 200 1111 route to a 2].77 Sl'('OIHI virtory. 
(;row's 1wrl'orma11c11 was 11111 tlw only show st.oppnr of' Urn day on tlw vvollH\n's sid1•. K1dliP Sax,•11 won llw high jump al !i-7 and Carri l.cnz rlainwd lwr s111·otHI victory of' tlw y1!ar in Llw 400. 
In addition. sopliomorll llnathPr O'llrinn eovnrcd S.000 nwtt•rs in 18 minult1s, 
24.47 S(H:m11!s on lwr way to vit-tory. 
Tlw 111P11·s si(!n also held its sharc• of' winnnrs on Saturday. Travis l)avey pick(•d up his !inn win in tlrn 
I 00. 1:rPsh111a11 P,11 Conway and Mikc-Mansour also had strong pPrf'ormanrns in thn spri11ts as wcill. 
Tnrry Wr11y also con­lribuwd with vii:torios in llw 200 and a st'corHI placl' linish in llw 400. 
¦ WOMEN'S GOLF 
Klein leads ND to 12th-place finish 
Special to the Observer 
Tho Notro Damo women's golf team maintained its 12th-place standing Sunday in l'inal-round action of the Ohio State Invitational while sophomore Mary Klein of Kokomo, Ind. led the Irish for t.hc third straight tourna­ment. tying for 31st in the 90-player field. 
Klein led tho Irish for the fourth time in 1998-99, carding an 82 on Sunday at the par-72, 6,037-yarct OSU Scarlet Golf Course for a 242 total in the team's final ev<mt. of 1998-99. The finish gavo Klein a team-best 
82.73 season stroke average over the nine tournaments in '98-'99, edging junior captain Andrea Klco by just three total strokes over 22 nninds. 
Notre Dame posted a final-round 326 in the play-six, count-four format, after turning in matching 332s on Saturday. The Irish finished three shots behind Winthrop and 34 shots ahead of Cincinnati. Ohio State took tbe teatn title. outdistancing Purdue by 22 stl'okes in the 15-team tournament. 
Sophomore Shane Smith posted lrnr biist round of 1998-99 on Sunday, carding a 79 for a 243 total and a share of 34lh. Smith finished tho season ranked third on the team with an 84.68 overall stroke average. 
Sophomore Danielle Villarosa (86-83-82) improved in each round for a 251 tolal, with the rest of the Irish contingent at OSU including Klee 187-84-86). froshman Kristin McMurlrie (89-85-86) and junior Both Cooper (91-86-83). 
The delicious BIG KING~' It's just like a Big Mac®,except it's got 75% more beef. And it's flame broiled. 


(Wait a second, it's not like a Big Mac" at all.) 
!(you likt• the Big Mac:you'll lovc the BIG KING'~ It's tlw bigger hurgcr from Burger K1ng~Two large fl:um:--broilcJ hurgcrs,mclteJ cheese, cnsp lettuce. onions, anJ p1Cklcs. with our own K111g sauce. And It won't cost you a k111g's ransom. Just $~ <)() with fries and ;1 drink (Price and partIc1pa11on may vary , 
it-., Hoodle. Lafortune Student Center 
BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better. 
C\1998 Butqer King Corporn!1on Burger King Corpora!10:n 1s the e)(clus,ve 1i,rr1~cc at lhc B~ir~cr Km1J 819 K1r)g and Bun Halves logo trademarks Big Mac 1s a registered lrademarl.. C' 1 McDonald'~ Corporation 

¦ TRACK 
Belles run past Defiance, 77-67 
By MOLLY McVOY Assisiont Sports Ediror 
Thr best season in Bcllrs' track historv continued Satt1rday as the· t(lam clcfoat11d Defiance College, 77-(17. 
"I think all of us nm our best 
to win it for tlw team," Sarah 
Gallagher said. "It was great." 
Tho mcet's outcomn came down to the last cvrnt -the 400-meter relay. The team of junior Sharis Long, sophomore Genevieve Vavello and seniors Gallagher and Stacy IJavis pullnd through for the Belles to win t.hn ment with a combinnd time of four minutes and 3(i seconds. 
"It was so exciting bccausn it came down to the last race," said Yavello. "And it felt great to win Ii ke that." 
The 4x400 was not the only excitement for Long in tho meet. She plaC1•d sncond in the 400 meter hurdles with a time of one minute 18.(i seconds, her second best ol' the season, and placnd third in both the triple jump and long jump with jumps of 29 fnet 2 1/2 inches and 1 3 feet I ·1 1 / 4 inches rospnctively. 
Davis, as is expected, also won the 100-mntnr da.c;h with a time of .12.08 seconds. 
The Belles wnrn strong in 
¦ SOFTBALL 
nearly nvery r<isp<H".l on Saturday. In the l'i11ld events, tlwy won discus, jawlin. high jump, tripln jump, and took sncond in tlw shot put 
.I un ior t\llyson Trido ar remains undef'natnd in tlw lnagun. dominating tlw jawlin with awinning distance or I I 6 font 0110 inch. 
Frnshman Erica BurkPt con­tinued twr outstanding fresh­man season winning hoth t.lw I 00-meter hurdles and thn high jump for Saint Mary's. 
Burket holrls tlw Saint Mary's record for tlrn 100 with a tinw of' l(dlO snrnmls. 
/\s it has b,icn all season·. the distance team ran slrong against Dnliance. 
Yavello look second in both the 800-nrnt.ers and 1,500­mnters whiln freshman Mdissa (;oss won tlw :,,000-mntnrs and look scr.ond in tho :1,000-mntPr. 
With this win, Saint Mary's movnd alwad of Deliancn in the lciague. The Belles now stand in sixth plarn ovcralt. 
The last m(iet for thn Belles is the Ml/\/\ confercnc!\ ('hampi­onships nnxt w,wkcnd at /\Ima College. 
"We'rn hoping to rnally stop up and compote wnll," Gallagher said whon asknd about llw ll<dles goals at llrn conl'err.nce championships. 

SMC loses two games to Chicago 
By TRACY HARBER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's took on the University or Chicago in a Monday Eloublc­header, dropping both games, 11-0 and 4-2. 
The Belles startnd the first game strong. Starting sophomorn pitclwr Anne Senger only gave up two hits in the first thn11) innings, and tlw defense was busy, espocially senior rightliclder Diane /\ndrnws. 
Chicago's olfonsl' gut strong in the fourth inning, scnring night runs on six hits and two errors. Chicago's pitcher was unstoppablr\ holding tho Bolles scorclnss. Tho Belles lost the first gamn 0-11. 
"We played hard in both games. but we just couldn't pull it out." Senger said. 
In the second game, the Belles came back strong. Frnshman pitclmr Kristin Martin gave UJJ no hits until t.hn third inning, when she gave up two singles and a run. lier stellar pnrformancn narnncl Martin a lifth place league ranking. 
Saint Mary's scornd in the bottom of the third on a single by S<\nior Sarah Martin. Thev also scored on an ,wror in the fourth. 
The score remitinod 2-1 until the top of' thn sixth inning wlwn Chicago's Michelle Darbo hit her second home run of the day, tying tlrn score, 2-2. 
The Bolles fought their way into extra innings, but tlrn Wl'II disci­plined Chicago hitters came back in the top of' the 11ighth to bring Lim score to 2-4 and win the game. 
Thn BP!lns will play llavover College Wednesday bPforn nnding tlwir season. "We ,U'<l going to try to put the games today lmhind us. look alwact to Wmlrrnsday, and encl thn season with a couple of wins," SPngc•r said. 

&UveP RIRd&  hobofJewelPIZ  
Sliva• 'l'oe RIDd&  hot& of Acces&0Ples  
8BPOUd& IPolR BaD  luG8R&8  
mn&IOR Nacld8.G8&  •••a.atl IRUGII IROPO  

Direct lmp"rtenl Incredible Prlcal 
Proceeds help fund the education of 4 Guatemalan children. Donations Welcome' 
Lahrtune Reem 108 (near phenes) I MD a-s FROM 10-s PM 
L____ 
-
-
....... 






page 22 

forward to the tournamPnL This ..... week we will try tu kctip playing
Softball 
thn same wav we have been all season and h(}po that it carries to 
continued from page 24 
the end tJf tlrn year." Eimt>n was named rookie of thesaw of' the yPar. Sharron yielded week and has recently takr1n over
only four hits during thos1~ six 
as tht, starter al second base. Siminnings whilP striking out six of batted .400 overall this past weektlw battt"rS that slw rared. 
and .571 in Big
0 ffe n s iv,, Iv, East games. She
KriPch. Liz~.v 
added two stolon
Lf'lllirn ancl 
l.rnses, while
Eimcn all had 'CLINCHING A SPOT IN 


making no
two hits for THE 8rG EAsT TOUR· 
errors on 23
Notni DamP. 1.Pmirn had two NAMENT REALLY TAKE.5 THE cham:es for tho wPek.
of tlw lrish's HBI PRESSURE OFF OF US FOR Alkire earned
and Eimcn once 
THIS w:c-rKE,ND.' player of the
again was a pm-
a;,i:. 
week honors bvfeet 2-l'or-2. 
taking over theIn ganw two, 
REBECCA b!MF.N team lead in hit-Bcssolo workPd 
Brc EAST ROOKIE OF THF WFEK ting. She batted
four and a third innings, allowing only one hit wllile striking out six Friar bat­ters. Alkire worked the final two and two-thirds innings to pick up the save. 
The Irish managed only one run for the game, which came in the third inning with two outs. Arny Laboe walked and then stole seG­
ond basP. Alkirn LhPn followed 
with a double to drive in Laboe and give the lrisl1 the 1-0 shutout victory. 
"Clinching a spol in the Big East tournament really takes the pres­surr olf of us for this wcekrmd," said Big East rookie of the week RehPcca Eimcn. "We are looking 
¦ SOFTBALL 
Big East honors three players 
Special to The Observer 
After clinching a berth in the Big East Tournament and run­ning their conference record to a perfect 12-0, three Notre Dame players were honored by the Big East for their perfor0 ma.nces last week. 
Sophomore Melanie Alkire of Union City. Calif., earned l:Hg East co-player of the Week honors. senior Angela Bessolo of Lakewood, Calif., was named Big East co-pitcher of the week and .freshman Rebecca Eitnen ofMannford, · Okla., grabbed the Big East rookie of the week award. 
All are first time honorees this season. Alkire vauJted herself into

-the team lead in overall batting after hitting .438 overall (7­for-16) with four runs scored, a · 
B.Bl in Notre Dame's five. games. Notre Dame's starting shortstop also contributed on the mound in the team's 1-0 . win over Providence after dti­ving in what proved to be the winning run in the third inning. Relieving starting pitcher Bessolo, Alkire allowed no hits and no runs in two and two~ 
Softball vs. IUPUI

-· Tuesda1_, April 27 
4:V0pm 
.438 for tl10 
week with a dou­
ble, a homerun 
and four RBIs, while adding four runs scored during the week. She currently leads the Irish and conference with a .348 batting average. 
Finally, ,\ugela Ilcssolu was named Big East pitcher of the Week, aftlir giving up only ono run and pm;ting a 2-0 conference mark for the week. She is 12-5 for the season with a 2.78 ERA. She shared the award with Seton l-lall's Misty Beaver. 
Next up for the Irish is a dou ­bleheader today against !UPUI al home at Ivy Field. The game is scheduled for 4 p.m. 

NOTRt'u\1j 
1! 
The Obsorvar/Liz Lang 

Junior Angela Besslo was named Big East pitcher of the week after going 2-0 in conference play last week. Bessie and the Irish return to action today against IUPUI on Ivy Field at 4 p.m. 

'Evfjakespeare­3n­Cf)erformanceH 
qJresents 
<dJfjaekespeare an;£olje 




Tuesday, April 27, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
TUESIJAY, !\PHIL 27, 19'19 

CELEBRITIES IIORN ON THIS position. You belong 1n tlw lill11.:li~h1 DAY: Jack Klugman, Corella Scull 000 King, Shet'tl,1 Easton, Anouk Aimet•, VIRGO (Aug. 23-S,•pl. 221: llon 1 Sand)' Dennis, Casey K<1sen1 blow situations uut ol pr,,plH'l1\•11 
Happy Birthday: You need lo ~,•I You could Ins,• il µuod lnl'nd II ,·nu your acl tngethcr lhi~ vcar. Stop an.l critical (111d stubborn. Cd ,111 ilw thinkinf; and start do111g. You rn..'.'cd to fal"ts, and don't be hh., t\l~,·r tll 11(11111 wnccntrale on whal it is vou w,ml 111 your fmger al ollwrs. 000 ,Kcomplish ,1nd go tor ii. The mor,• LIBRA (Scpl. 23-Oct. 22): I 1:--h.'11 h· you sit around hesitating, the greah•r those ha\'tll~ mort, l'\~"H..·rw1Kt' lr,111•1 the loss will be. !rs time to spre,ui and t.•duc,1tionill pur"u1ts \nll t.'lll"lt. Ii your wings and take night Only you your vision. You \\'111 pro,p,·r thruu}!h can take the in1t1ative to make your makmg new tri,•mb 000 life better. Your numbers· 9, 22, 24, 36, SCORPIO IOcl 23•No ... 211 40, 45 Money-making 1·,•nlurt•, lool.. 111h•1 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your esting. Take a clo,,•r lm1k. but don'/ interest in picking up new informa­take too much tune deCLd11111,, Yt1\II tion or skills is growing. Sign up for intuitive instincts will le,1d voLI ill till· seminars or courses that offer a chal­most prosperous dinxtlon. 0000 lenge. You'll qu,t if you get bored. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211 000 Don't let your parlner pl,11 rn111d 
TAURUS (April 20-Mdy 20): You games with you Stand up filr \'Ulll will have greater concern with your rights and sp.,ak your rninct. it lw future secunty. Check out retirement tries to put all the blanw 1111 )1\lll, L,~ plans that offer guarantees. Stress due prepared lo let him know wh~I h1, to worry has been wearing you faults arc. 00 down. Get busy doing things you CAPRICORN (Uec. 22·1• n. I'll en1oy 00000 Gel busy setting up those 1ntt•n It'\\'', 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You You need a job th,11 ,,ffers rnor,, ,hal will have to make a decision regard­lenges and higher wagl's Sign up 1<11 mg your personal partner. The infatu­courses that will bring vou n1,lJ'l._• s~ill, ations that rou've been experiencing and business knowledge 00000 may be due to something you are AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fe b. 181 lacking in your emotional relation­You'll be desperalc tor i111el ll~(h1,,I sh1p. OO bantering. Trawl should b,• high (Ill 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't your list. Foreign cultures ntte, '-~ hl1,t let your desu'e for love lead you into a of interesting information for \"OU f\• foolish pursULt. One-sided romantic incorporate into ,·nur philo~npl11 attractions will be emotional and 000 could damage your reputation if you PISCES (Feb. 1'1-March 20 I: EmP• are too demonstrative about your tional setbacks will s,1rf.ice If \'llll feelings. 0000 haven't resolved thl' r~currinf\, prob 
LEO (July 23·Aug. 22}: You II ferns that your rclat1011sh1p race, I 1 make lasting friendships if you gel your partner denies thJt thl1 rt1'!-i ,\ involved in organ1zatw11s. Your problem, make plans t,1 go ot1111·1th beliefs and attitudes will be respected fri,•nds. 000 by others. Move into a leadership 
¦ OF INTEREST 

Senior John Camden wilJ present a solo organ recital today at 8 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The program will include works by Paine, Sweelinck, Bach and Vierne. The rectial is free and open to the public. Please call 631-6201 for more information. .. Daµtel Philpott of the Erasmus Institute will pres"Ont a.lecture entitled Sovereignty, Human Rishts and the Challenge of Heligous Pluralism in room C-103 os the Heshurgh Library at 4:15 p.m. 
Chili Cook-off and Bluegrass Festival -The Student Activities Office and the Food Service will sponser the first annual Chili Cook-off and Bluegrass Festival today from 4-7 p.m. For more infomation call Nena Foster at 1-4073. 
Post-Graduate Service -All seniors who plan to serve with a volunteer program after graduation are invited to sign up for the Senior Volunteer Send-off on Saturday, May 8 at 10 a.m. in Washington Hall. Pie.ase sign up in the Center for Social Concerns this we(~ 
1111 TIie Observer s1111.• It's ¦ ore 111 11111111,1111 CIICIIIS II 2 I. ¦ • 
-
-
-

The Office of Recreational Sports would like to thank all those persons 
.,...

who made this past year a great success. 
Rectors, ND Security, The Observer, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center, ND Golf Course, Rockne Me­morial, Rolfs Aquatic Center, Loftus Sports Center, Joyce Center Ice Rink, Athletic Grounds Crew, Athletic Commissioners, RecService Course Instructors, Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center, In­tramural Officials & Aerobic lnstructos, Student Supervisors & Issue Room Workers, Medical Services, EMT's & First Aid Personnel and all of the participants. 
._, 

SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULLIVAN 
CAN YOU BUIE.YE WE'VE AH... /..OT OF ACTUALLY, I 1H1tJK 
BE.t;N fJ01N(J 1f/lS (OR ... (;oot> 
We. JVST UPSET A LoT

fHRf.E Yf.ARS No\../7( 
FOXTROT 
Al'll>'I', You l)ol'fT UNDERSTl'l'II>.' 
I NEED CoFFEE To WAl<.E U!'.' 
To THINK' To FUNCTION.' 
DILBERT 

r-::::==========::::---7 E ,--:::==============::::===::-r--:::::_::::::_::::_-::_-::::_:_:::_:_:::_:_::-. 
8 t CAN'T TELL WHE.N ~

'fOU'R.E. GETHNG A 
THE.RE'S NO WAY TO 
j I'M \?>OR.ING. I ~

Vt5!T FRO!"\ 
END A. CONVERSATION HAMMER.HE.11-0 BOB! 
i ~ MIGHT M'.. t:>OR.1.NG ~ f 

WtTI-\ l"\'c'.. j I'LL FOLLOW ~ NOW ~NO I OONT 
'<OU TO Tl-\(. B/\.T\-\ROOf'-\. 
E 
8 
t:'. 
.8 
'6 

____;::ai....---1-..:::...::::;ii;!i:::....i.__..J.J 3: ~---------_.;;:.:z......M.-1 Cl{O\\WOHI l ACROSS 32 Like --out of 62 Exploit hell 
63 Appropriate1 Con game 35 Drives off 
64 Marquis de -­

sGiven an R or PG 36 Of the 65 Recipe amts. 
1060'sdo 
congregation 66 Schnozzes14 Standard 

. . 37 Mexico City 
67Ogled

1s Elicit portrait painter? 16 It may be entered 41 Behave in a court 
DOWN
42 Western "necktie" 

17 Request for artist Georgia's 43 Revival meeting 1 [Hmmph!j forbearance? cry 2Newswoman 20 --Tin Tin 44 Deficiency Roberts 3 Scene of the 
21 Enticed 46 Pale action22 Washing jobs 48 OPEC export 
4Ladyde la 

23 They're apt to 
49 Filled in maison: Abbr. get into hot 53 "Beat it! .. 
5 Sanctuary

water 6 Swears
25 Sweetie 56 Plait 26 1952 and '56 58 Eggs 7 Heavy reading campaign name 59 "Georges paints a --out a living 27 Grand as he pleases"? (scraped by) 9 Org. involved in raids 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Blacksmiths' 
wear 

' 
11 Kind of market Puzzle by Norma Steinberg CED 
A B
S L

LA
L 
0 
12 StudyL E 
N 0 
33 •Art of the 50 Incursion 55 Glean 
13 Slow-growing
AVE

ADAT 
Fugue" 51 Skirt 56 Vivacitytrees composer 52Saw 57 Tatters18 Antiaircraft fire 

34 Choir part 19 It may be worn 53 Room meas. 60 Ashes holder 
35 Air apparent? under a sweater 
38 Punctual 54 They're waited 61 "--as 24 Bridle parts for at a theater directed"
39 Farm delivery 25 Catcall 
40 Author Grey 27 Them there 
45 Lies 1n the Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 28 Sharpen summer sun are available by touch-tone phone: 29 Astringent 46 Places for 

1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 30 Specify watches 

Annual subscriptions are available for the 31 Actress Cannon 47 Adjutant best of Sunday crosswords from the last 32 Epiphanies 49 Shower 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


oF PEOPLE. 
-

BILL AMEND 
RoGER, IF THAT'S TRuE J I NEED CoFFEE HERE. HAVE THEN ,oo'RE ADl>1cTED, ~ To DEBATE. A REFRES\!1N6 
AND 1T'S EVEN MoRE K GLASS of REASoN To BREAK FREE ICE WATE~ FRoM CAFfftNE'S GRtP. 
I 
I 

SCOTT ADAMS 
THANK YOU! Office of Recreational Sports Universi of Notre Dame 



ANOTHER GREAT ONE DEPARTS 
¦ John Elway will offfically announce his rt'.tiremcnt later this week after a 16 year NFL career. 
p. 16
PORTS 
O 
THE 

page 24 BSERVER ~-----------------~ Tuesday, April 27, 1999 

Relays prep ND for final Big East race 
By BRIAN J. HOBBINS Sports W ricer 
The Notrn Dame track teams traveled to Des Moines, Iowa, and Punlu<' for one last dos(' of competition in the Drake and Purdue relays before the Big East tourna­mcnt this upcoming wePkend. 
In both locations the team had a :;olitl perfornrnncc and built up their confidence for the conference champi onships. While 
the Big East proV<'d his c h a m p i -'THIS WAS SOME OF THE merit placing
onshiµs arc in the top the cufminat-BEST COMPETITION OF twonty in the 
ing point for THE YEAR. THERE WERE hammer. the team, Back in meets like the GOOD RUNNERS THERE WHO Indiana, Irish 
Drake and HAVE GONE TO NATIONALS athletes used Purdue relays the Purdue are part of the AND DONE WELL.' Helays to important for-CHRIS COCl!l/AN boost their mula for sur-O.VTHEDRAKERELAYS confidence 
com petition as well. In a spe­cial heat of the 400, Cochran cL,irned a strong fourth-place finish at 47.82. 
"This was some of the hest competition of thP yf'ar,'' Cochran said. "There were good runners there who havt1 gone to nationals and clone well." 
Jennifer Englehardt and Dore Debartolo also turned in strong performances in their respective events. Senior Jay 
H o f n e r 
cess · in 
Villanova this 
weekend. 
Drake provided Irish ath­letes \\ith the nation's top

-rnmiwtition, pushing them to thr ralibH of performance thr, \\·ill need for success at thP.Big East championships. Senior Nadia Schmiedt thrived in this environment. Schmicdt gained a NCAA pro­visional qualification with a time of 59.00 seconds in the 400-meter hurdles in a race that came down to a photo finish. In the race Schmiedt ran against some of tho top athletes in the country. "I knew the names, but I hadn't run against them this year," Schmeidt said. · She said she is happy with the victory and knows it will boost her confidence for Big East. "I was happy with the win. It is a positive thing heading into Big East." On the men's side, junior Chris Cochran relished the 
heading into 
the Big East 
weekend. 
The highlight of Friday's competition was Adrian lrby's victory in the triple jump at 47-foot-5-inch. 
The Irish men and women had strong showings in the triple, as Angela Patrizio claimed fifth place honors with a jump of 31 feet, 1 1/4 inches. Junior Niall Cannon also provided a bright light for the Irish in the pits plac­ing sixth in the hammer throw. 
On Saturday, the Irish found the action heating up. Leading the pack was fresh­man sensation Liz Grow, who toned down her usual sprint routine to a shorter 100­meter sprint to complement hfn trademark 200-meter sprint. 
"I wanted to be fresh for Big East." Grow ssid. "I was 
see TRACK / page 21 
¦ SOfTBAU 

Irish finish perfect in Big East 
By MATT OLIVA Spo1ts -v;·rice, 

This past weekend the Irish softball team swept two more conl'f.1rence opponents to remain undefeated in the Big East with a 12-0 record. 
The 

Irishl=;.;;;;;;=
(34-17, 12-0) e a s i I y defeatnd the University of Connecticut twice on ~-~~-­Saturday before shutting out Providt1ncfl in two very close games on Sunday. Th<' wins guaranteed the Irish a spot in the field of four teams for the Big East con feronco tounia­ment. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame defeated Connecticut IJy the scores of7-3 and 9-1. In game one, sophpmore Jennifer Sharron recorded the victory on the mound for the Irish by allowing no runs in six and one third innings of work. She is now 13-7 on the vear and a perfect 6-0 in the Big East. 
Jenny Kriech, Amy Laboe, Jarrah Myers and Sharron all had two hits each for the Irish. Myers led, all starters by dri­ving in two runs in the game. 
In game two, Angela Bessolo (11-5, 4-0) picked up the l\otre Dame win. She lasted all five innings and allowed only one run on seven hits, in a game that was called short because of the eight-run rule. Caryn Haskins was credited with the loss for the Huskies, her fifth of the sea.,on. 
Melanie Alkire and Rebecca Eimen were the offensive stars for the Irish in the second game, as each player was per­fect at the plate. Alkire went 3­for-3 with two RBI and scored two of the Irish runs. Eirnen was 2-for-2 with one run scored and a stolen base. 
On Sunday the Irish played two games that were closer than they expected. They 

The Observer/Liz Lang Kelly Rowe and the Notre Dame softball team picked up four wins lasfweekend to improve to 12-0 in Big East conference play. 
defeated Providence 3-0 and 1-Sharron worked the first six 0, dropping the Friars' record innings of the f'irst game to to 12-3:i and 3-9 in confer­pick up the win. Michelle ence. The two shutouts Mosclrnl pitched tlrn final clinched the Irish a spot in the inning to pick up her fourth Big East tournament May 8 and 9. see SOFTBALL/ page 22 


Belles fail to adapt after injury, lose 6-2 
By ANGELA FOX 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's tPrn1is team lost a non-conference away meet Saturday to Wheaton College, 2-6. 
Bucky Kr<mrnr, No. 3, was not able to play singles clue to an i11jury she suffered playing doubles. Berause of KrcmN's injury, the Nn. 4, 5 and 6 play­ers all had to move up a spot to compensate. The women were forced to step up their play against the higher-ranked competitors. 
Another challenge the team had to overcome was playing on a different surface than what it was accustomed. The mret was played indoors. on car­pet, and took awhile to get used to since most 13ellcs' meets are played oulside. 
Katie Vales, playing No. 1 singles, defeated hPr opponent 6-2 in the first set and 7-5 in the second. 

No. 2 Annie Knish won both sets 6-4, to pick up one of the two Saint Mary's points. Betsy Gemmer moved up to play at No. 3 and lost 1-6, 2-6. Frnshman Taylor Jarri11. normally No. 5, played against the No. 4 opponent and was defeated by the score of 0-6, 1-6. 
Not only did Jarrin have to play against a higlrnr­ranked competitor but her opponent was a three­year memher of the Wheaton team. 
"She was a hard level of competition and I felt out-experienced going into the match," said Jarrin. 
In doubles, the Belles played eight-game-pro-sets. The No. 1 team of Vales and Knish were very closely matched against their opponents. The set score was tied 8-8 .going into the tiebreaker, where they fell 4­7 to lose the match, 9-8. The win could have gone either way ,\·ith both learns playing so competitive­ly. 
The No. 2 team of Kromer and Gmnmer lost 2-8. Jarrin and Eastburn, the No. 3 team, also lost 2-8. 
The Belles have only 0110 more game to play hofore the MIAA Co11fcn)J1C!) tournament Friday and Saturday. 
First, they will have to concentrate on tlwir last regular season match. Today at 3 p.m. th,) Belles will facfl Tri-State University on thfl road. 
With their conference meds out of the way, the Belles are going into the tournament with a 6-2 MIAA record. 
Tho Belles arc predicted to do well. due to the fact that they have defeated most of the competition in their conference. 
"We hope to do well and defeat the tough com­petitors in our conference," Jarrin said. "Albion College and llope College will prove to be their toughest opponents in the upcoming tournament." 
Softball vs IUPUT Harvard Today, 4 p.m. ~ Saturday, 2 p.m. Track and Piek!
SPORTS 
Big East Champioships 
at Villanova
St

Baseball vs Illinois-Chicago Tennis at Tri-State 
--· ATA 
Saturday-SundayToday, 7 p.m. Today, 3 p.m. 

f!J ~ ­
GLANCE 






