
Goin' for gold 
The search continues 
lee Cube and (;eorge Clooney attempt to 
Officials are combing through the wreckage of 

Thursday
benefit from the spoils ofthe Gulf War in 
Tuesday's commuter train 
"Three Kings. " 
crash in London. 
OCTOBER 7, 
Scene . page 14 
News . page 8 
1999 

THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII N0.31 


Eliach creates 'Tower of Life' 01elllorial 

. Exhibit commorates daily shtetl life before the Holocaust 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Nt'ws Writrr 

Flying l'rom Poland to Kim• as part or l'rnsidnnt Jimmy Cart1ir's llolucaust Commission. Yaffa l~liach had an inspi­ration. 
"I suddmily rnaliztHI that sonrnwhere lw,wath the clouds was the town my family had lived in for 900 years," hliad1 said Wnd1wsday night in a lecture sponsornd by tlw Notre Damn Holocaust l'rojncl. 
1-:liadi is originally l'rnm tlH~ Eastern EuropPan sht<•tl Eishyshok, near Vilna. Lithuania. llnr family was omi of the f'ivP founding families in tho 11th C11ntury. When llrn Nazis came, they murdnrc•d both her mollwr ancl baby lirothcr. Tlw Nazis also murdered apprnximatdy '.-i,500 other JP.ws ­including 900 children -in Eishyshok. At ag<' 4, Eliarh manag,•d to PSr.ape l'rom lwr honwtown undnr a l'alse idcmti­ly. A rcdativP hid IO photographs nl' Eliach and hr.r family in her shoe. 
In 1979, Eliach and other meml.Hirs of' Carter's commission visited th<' Nazi concentralion camps in Europe tn deter­minn a µroper way to mcmorializu the Ilolocaust. Most of' her colleagues want­ed to include r.atllc cars and gas drnm­bcrs in a holocaust musnum. 
"I did not foci comfortable with it," Eliach said of their plans to feature only lhe Nazis' destruction. "I kept hearing .fnws going to the synagogue." 
Sho dncided she wanted to memorial­izn the daily lives of' Jews in her shtetl, which had existed for nine centuries before the Nazis destroyed it in two days. 
"I did nnl see I.Jews] as skulls and bones." Eliach said. 
She then searched for pho­tographs and doc­umon ts about life in the town before World War II. lier search covered 17 years and six con­tinents. 
Eliach's efforts led to the creation of the Tower nf Life at the U.S. II o I o c a u s t Memorial Museum, which contains approxi­matllly 1,500 pho­tos of Jews in Eishyshok before the Germans came. Eliach said the tower, which is designed to give the sense of' stand­ing in the middle of the town, has helped museum visitors to realize the creativity of Jewish life in Eastern Europe before the Ilolocaust. 
''It became the album of' the fami­ly of mankind," s·aid Eliach of the Tower. 

Photo courtesy of Yatta Eliach 

Yaffa Eliach spoke about her experiences as part of President Carter's committee to memorialize the Holocaust. 
In addition to creating the Tower of Life, Eliach also wrote the book "There 
Many of the pictures were taken before the people photographed emi­grated from the shtetl. Eliach's paternal grandparents took many of the photos in their studio. 
Eliach also spok11 of the impact the people from Eishyshok have had throughout the world. People from the town immigrated to all parts of the globe. Barbara Walters' mother was one such immigrant. 
Once Was a World: a 900-year Chronicle of the Shtetl of Eishyshok." 

She gain11d a great deal of valuable information from unofficial documents such as diaries and letters. instead of official government documents. The hook also contains photos from the shtctl before the war. 
Before composing the book, Eliach 
see ELIACH/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Library to undergo renovations 
By LINDSAY FRANK 
News Writer 
Plans to rnnovate the llesburgh Library am close to being flnalized. 
"The renovation could start as early as summer of 2000," said Jennifer Younger, director of' University Libraries. 
According to Youngor, a master planning study document should be ready for the University's approval either late this week or early next week. The stages of the renovation, which will focus solely on the int<1rior of' Hesburgh, will b~i detnrminnd and blue prints will br. drawn up. 
Initially. the plan will concentrate on the basement, lirst floor and suc­ond floor. 
"We want to change the amounts of space allocated for collections and people," said Youngrr. 
There has also been a push to make the library more open and inviting to visitors. 
"We want it so that when you come in you really get a sense of what is there," she said. 
In addition to rearranging tho col­lections, there has been talk of mov­ing the computer lab from second floor to first floor, as well as putting in a cafe on first floor. 
Discussions regarding the renova­tion have been going on for about a year since focus groups began meet­ing last fall. 
Comprised of faculty and students. these groups talked about how the renovation could benefit the needs of 
see LIBRARY/page 4 
STUDENT SENATE 


Controversy surrounds report to Board of Trustees 
By FINN PRESSLY 
A,rnstant News Editor 
Tfw S1matc. tlw rnprnsentative body of tho Stud,•nl. Union. voted unanimously to expel members of the public. including reprn­snntativns from camµus nwdia, from a portion of iL-, m,ietin){ last night to discuss tlrn Board ol' Trustees rnporL 
Th<! motion ln dose thn meet­ing was brought f'orward by McGlinn senator Meredith Sonnycalb. 
The topic or tlw rnport. prc­s1~ 11ted lo the senate by Dan Peale and Brian Smith. addr!'ss­es lhe CaLholic character of' Urn University, and whc~thnr or not Notrn Dame's mission statement is adaquawJy implnnwnted on all levds of student life. 
"It docsn'L rdlccl my views ut all," said Visher senator Phil Dittmar. 

Many of tho senators had points of contention regarding the report. including the College of Science's commitment to reli­gion. 
Senate parliamentarian Stephen Sanchez explained, howevrr. that the aim of the roport was simply to examine how the University mission state­ment affects daily student expe­rience. 
Keough senator Brian ()'Donoghue explained that the report had already been sent to the trustees and that H is not within the purview of the senate to make changes to the report. 
"We approved tho topic last spring und basit:ally said, 'OK, kids. run with it,"' said ()'Donoghue. 
This has been the first year that senators have received a copy of the report at all. accord­ing to student body vice presi­den l Michael Palumbo. The report was provided, he said, so that the comments brought forth by the senators at the meeting could hn integrated into the pre­sentation of the report to Lhe trustees next Thursdav. 
The motion to close the mcet­ing immediately preceded adjournment of the Senate. Among the three members of the public r•1moved was Dan Peate, who co-authored the report, 
On condition of anonymity, one senator confirmed that following the closure of the meeting, sena­tors continued to discuss the Board of' Trustees report, though no legislation was passed con­cerning the report. 
see SENATE/page 6 page 2· The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, October 7, 1999 


INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 



Too Quiet 
Things are just too quiet here at Notre Dame. Not because we live in God's country. Not because the stadium is empty on Thursdays. 
It's too quiet because the students like it that way. Once upon a time, maybe when your par­ents were in college, stu­
dents were noisy. 
They burne.d draft cards and buildings to protest ihe Vietnam War. They chained themselves to trees or bar­ricaded the entrance to administration offices. 
In the South, they screamed until they were 

hoarse for equal rights. 
Erica Thesing 
But today's students are quiet, more moderate, more middle-of-the-road. 
Associate
Don't rock this boai. lest 
News Editor 
an Abercrombie shirt get wet. 
Don't ask a student to protest U.S bombings in Iraq during "Party of Five." 
And please don't expect demonstrations on the non-discrimination clause when Nintendo 64 is waiting. 
Student activism has been an important part of American history, but the voice is dying. Notre Dame is home to thousands of intelligent, idealistic and energetic people. These people can resurrect the voice. 
The injustice exists. The power is here. Students, it's time to be noisy. 
Be informed. Technology brings newspapers and magazines and radio stations from around the world into your room. 
Read about Colombia or Turkey or the slums of New York. 
Know what your elected officials are doing and where they could improve. And please, please, remember to vote. Care about your freedom enough to practice it. 
Be opinionated. Controversial topics abound -choose a favorite and take a side. Some quiet reflection and intellectual discussion with other young, idealistic and energetic people will help. 
Be passionale. Merely taking a side is never enough. Really care about the issue, especially the people involved. 
Care about the sweatshop laborers, the nat­ural disaster victims. the children dying on American streets. 
Give up your soap operas for an aft.ernoon to learn about their plight. 
Share the information with your friends and donate a week's worth of beer money to save lives. 
Channel your youthful energy and idealism into something larger than yourself. 
Get involved. There might be an organization on this campus that rellects your interests. Join it. If none exists, start one. Find other passion­ate people and vow to lruly make a difference. Circulate petitions and present them to student government or to the administration. 
Flood your U.S. Senator's ofike with a letter campaign. Remember that a world exists beyond this bubble. Impact it. 
No one likes to be outdone by their parents. Students, our parents were loud. They were on the right track, but we must be louder. The world is waiting. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Bill Uniowski Mike Vanegas Matthew Smith Graphics Erica Thesing Katie Kennedy 
Sports Production 
Molly McVoy Kathleen O'Brien 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
A.J. Boyd Kevin Dalurn 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of th.c As:sociaccd Press. All reproduction rlghts are reseNcd. 

Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Forum: gender siudies;  . Play: Hedda Gabler;  . Film: "Notting Hill"; 8  . Celebration: singing,  
12:30-1:30 p.m.; 119  7:30 p.m.; Washington  p.m. & 10:30 p.m.;  dancing, a bonfire, spon­ 
O'Shaughnessy I-Jail.  Hall; $6 for students.  Cushing Auditorium.  sered by CARE and the  
. Dinner: Class of 2000  . Trip: Niles haunted  . Film: "The Blair Witch  Feminist Coller.tive; 5 p.m.;  
dinner; 6:30-8:30 p.m.;  house, sponsored by  Project"; 7:30 p.m. & 9:45  in front of Le Mans Hall  
BW3's; $2.  lilipside; bus leaves  p.m.; Snite Museum of Art.  . Run for Hunger: Dillon  
Library Cirde at 7 :45  Hall fund raiser; 2:30  
p.m.; Le Mans at 8 p.m.  p.m.; meet at Main Circle.  

Compiled from tJ-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Harvard donors reach $2.1 billion goal 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. nernd $942.5 million.
"I knew they were well over

It's an announcement more than Last week, Andrew Tiedemann, a five years in the making. spokesperson in the University
the goal when 1 made my last 

Wednesday afternoon, under the development office, said Harvard is mounted moose and elephant heads major gijt " night months ahead of the schedule of Manhattan's Harvard Club, presi­set al the beginning of the
Sidney Knafel

d1mt Neil Rudenstine is expected to University's campaign. tell a group of 150 donors and Harvard fund raiser But regardless of what the administrators that the University's University announces today, it plans mammoth $2.1-billion Capital to continue l'undraising until Campaign has reached -and per­December. haps even surpassed -its original The revelation comes as little sur­"The campaign doesn't end until goal. prise. Eight of Harvard's nine Dec. 30," Tiedemann said, citing the 
"It's been apparent to me for a schools have already met or exceed­fundraising effort's original end number of months. "I knew thev ed their goals, The school of public date. "And the campaign isn't over were well over the goal when I made health, fur example, met its $125 until then." my last major gift," said Sidney million goal two-and-a-half years Certain goals of the campaign, Knafel, who has given about $27 ago. such as the libraries and professor­million to Harvard over the course of Only the faculty of arts and sci­ships, have been sticking points the campaign. "They've wanted to ences -the college and its graduate since the beginning. keep the announcement of going programs -has yet to officially Most programs still remain short over the goal quiet so it will be a meet its $965-million goal. As of this of their individual goals. even joint release," he added. past commencement, FAS had gar-though the overall goal is reached. 
Michigan State workers may strike 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
By Saturday, Michigan State University could find itself without custodians. plumbers, animal-care work­ers and food-service workers if two MSC unions vote Wednesday to call a strike. Wednesday's vote is a con­tinuation of a Sept. 26 vote by union members that gave contract negotiators the OK to strike if a settle­ment wasn't reached with the university. Points of con­tention include pay increases and the right to promote employees based on seniority. The unions represent about 1,100 people including carpenters, printing-press operators and groundskeepers, Locals 999 and 1585 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees are scheduled to meet tonight to accept a university proposal or to call a strike. Union contracts expired June 31 and July 31 respectively. "The university has not shown a strong willingness to settle," Local 999 Prnsident Dennis Lantzy said. "We don't think we're that far from a set­tlement, but the university has dug its heals in on a couple issues. There's a real strong possibility wo can avoid a strike, but the university must step up." 

East Carolina U. students recover 
DUHH/\M, N.C. 
After nearly two weeks of' heavy rains and 11ooding that shut down East Carolina University, classes ofli­cially resumed Sept. 29, but an array of problems remains. The biggest difficulty now facing administra­lors at the Greenville school is finding permanent housing for the nearly 2,400 students whose dormito­ry rooms and apartments were destroyed by Hurricane Floyd and the subsequent floods, said George Threewitts, assistant director of' FCU's news bureau. Throewitts praised the efforts of the hundreds or people in the Greenville area who are offering rooms in their homes for displaced students to live in until the school resolves the housing situation. "The community has really opened their hearts and done so much for us," he said. Although some aspects of cam­pus lifc have returned to normal, there arc still dozens of students, faculty and staff trying to recover furni­ture. clothes and other items that they left behind when the campus was evacuated Sept. 15. Two main academic buildings also suffered significant 11ooding damage from Floyd. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~forecast tor daytime condition, and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather<> forecast for noon.Thursday, Oct. 7. Os Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.

r/ ____ _ 

Thursday • Friday• ~ 90& 
'-' ....... ' 
205 80s 

Saturd~y ~ 
,::,, = 90s 
50a o<t:, 
~,oa FRONTS:

Sunday -.., 0 sos~ .......................... 
( C 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
@'"'"© D . D C:J 12] . 0 ~ ~ 
High Low Showers Rain T-storm• Flunlea Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via"5sot::la/ea' Pres11

Mon~:/f• 
Atlanta 78 54 Fredonia 53 33 Philadelphia 57 42 Baltimore 61 42 Las Vegas 86 61 San Antonio 90 60 Boston 53 39 Memphis 83 53 St. Louis 83 54 Showers T·storms Rain Fl~r;ies S~;;_ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Buffalo 50 31 New York 55 42 Tampa 86 71 Via Associated Press Graphics Net Chicago 67 44 Orchard Park 50 31 Wash DC 64 46 
~-~,Q@.p.~(f ~ ~ 

Thursday, October 7, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
FACULTY SENATE 
Members discuss recommendations on key issues 
Resolution requests 150 more professors 
By JOSH BOURGEOIS 
Assistant New, Editor 
Tim 1:arulty Snnate n•q11Pstcd ,lll additional 150 faculty hr\ hired over the 
1wxt IO y<•ars, at Wednnsday 11ight 's uwt:ting. 
T h P sti n a Ie ·s r n s o Iu ti o n stat(~d. "tlw Faculty Senatn rnqunsls lhat the Prtisitfont, Aradnniic Counril and The Board of' TrusLcm; scl a tar­gPt of I:iO additional !'acuity OVl'l' and abovP thosn callPd f'or in ll11• Colloquy rnporl during Llw ,wxt IO ypars." 
This rnsolution canrn one day al'ltH' University prnsi­dm1t Fatlrnr Edward Mallov, i11 his annual address to u;e fanilty, disn1ss(•d tho growth of' Notrn Dame's traching body. lie said the Univnrsity has addPd an avMagn or 10 ftill-tim11 faculty µositions pnr year sincn 198 7. The SPnatn's proposal would increase that average by five. 
Tlw committfie on 

on't Miss It! 
October 14, 1999 11 a.m. -3 p.m. 
1999 Midwest Association of Pre-Law Advisors (MAPLA). Caravan 
at 

The University of Notre Dame JACC-Concourse 
r----------------------------------I
.... 

I BELOW ARE THE NAMES OFA FEW OF THE I I I
100 LAW SCHOOLS SENDING REPRESENTATIVES 
I I
0 I TO NOTRE DAME I 
I
0 I 
I Boston University I 
Duke Ulliversity 
L I 
I Indiana Universities I 
Loyola Universities 
a I I 
I New Yori< University Ohio State University
Iw I Penn State-Dickinson 
I I 
Saint Louis University I Syracuse Universitys Texas Wesleyan Thomas M. Cooley
I
C. I 
Univ. of Akron I Univ. of CA-Berekely
I
... I I I 

Univ. ot CA-Hastings lj I university of Chicago 
I 
c> 
I I University of Miami 
I
C> University of Pittsburgh 
I I Univ. of Pennsylvania I
I Univ. of Southern CA
I I Yale Law School 

Washington & Lee Yeshiva University
s 

L------------------------------------­
Visit The Observer Online. 
http://observe r .. ,nd.edu 
"ffyou look at the top , o universities, there is an average student lo faculty ratio ofnine to one. 
Tom Cosimano 
chair, committee on 
Academic Affairs 

t\cademic Affairs proposed this resolution because or thn importancn of low stu­denL to l'ar.ully ratios and class size to the quality of undergraduate and graduate oducation at Notre Dame and to the U.S. News and World Hepnrt College Han kings. 
Tom Cosimano, chair of tho committee on Academic Affairs. said that the idea to improve the rankings by acqu1r1ng more faculty occurred after examining the U.S. News and World Hcport College Bankings. 
"We [the committee on 
( 
I
Chicago-Kent (!IT) I Harvard Law School 
I I 
Lewis & Oar!< ( Michigan State University Northeastern University Oklahoma City Pepperdine University St. Mary's University-TX Temple University Thomas Jefferson Tulane Law School Univ. of Buffalo Univ. of CA-Davis Univ. of CA-Los Angeles Univ. of Connecticut 
University of Kentucky University of Texas-Austin Valparaiszo University 
Academic Affairs] _systemati­cally looked at the report and saw what could be done to match similar numbers to t.husr universities in the top 10 in the rankings." Cnsimano said. 
"If you look at the top 10 universities, there is an average student to faculty ratio ol' nine to one. To make that ratio possible. the university would netHl to hire 150 new professors," he said. 
After debate over the lan­guage and.order of the reso­1ution. the Faculty Senate passed the resolution in an unanimous vote. 
Facuity Senate also passed two memorial resolutions in the memories of Professor John Malone, who taught in the markcling department l'or ovf!r 40 vears, and Professor Davil Appel, who taught in the marketing department for 32 years. Faculty Senate observed a moment of silence in memo­ry of the professors. 
Advertising ban attracts continued attention 
By JOSH BOURGEOIS 
Assistant News Ediror 
The administration's ban of ads submitted to The Observer by Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College 
(GALA­
NO/SMC) 
was dis­cussed by a Faculty Senate sub-com­rn it tee Wednes­

day. Preacher 
A v a 
Preacher. chair or the commit­tee on Student Affairs, announced that the committee met with the Observer editor in chief Michell<) Krupa and other representatives of the independent student newspa­per to acquire information about the ad ban. 
"They [the Observer repre­sentatives] gave us back-ground to what they under­stood the relationship lrntween the Notre Dame administra­tion and the Observer was," Preacher said. "Thny have documnntation saying that they arc oditorially indepen­dent to the administration, and based on that documenta­tion. they should be indepen­dent." 

The committee also dis­cussed the request f'or more student rnpresentatives by the Campus l.ifo Council on a committee that will examine Notre Dame's academic and student life. 
The committee on Benefits informed the Faculty Senate that one of their goals is to get more comparative information provided to faculty in regards to different health plans. 
Professor lkaros Bigi rnport­e d that the committee on Administration discussed the faculty and staff drug testing policy and the new alcohol policy regarding student and faculty events. 
Special to The Observer 
Jefrey Gorris, a senior from San Gabriel, Calif., has received a 1999 Beta Gamma Sigma scholarship for the study of busi­ness. 
Gorris, an accounting and finance major, earned one of only 65 scholarships granted this year. 
Its mission is to encourage and honor academic achievement in the study of business, as well as personal and professional excel­lence in an accredited under­graduate or master's program. 
Beta Gamma Sigma member­ship is the highest recognition a business student anywhere in the world can receive. 
Selection into Beta Gamma Sigma is highly competitive, with eligibility limited to stu­dents in the upper seven per­cent of the junior class, upper 10 percent of the senior class, or upper 20 percent of the graduating master's class. Of approximately 300,000 stu­dents receiving bachelor's or master's degrees in business each year, only about 17,000 are elected to Beta Gamma Sigma membership. 
Senior awarded business scholarship 




page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 7, 1999 

Eliach 
continued from page 1 
said she had to revisit Eishvshok. 
"The pain was unbelievable," shn said of lrnr visit. Tim hard­est part of' the visit was the l'aci that all remnants of Jewish life in the town had been destroyed. 
llowPver. Eliach said she is not sure Eishyshok would have survived even without the war. She said shtetl lif'e was chang­ing and many people had already begun to emigrate elsti­wherc. 
As a new project, Eliach is working to build a full-scale model in Israel of pre-war Eishyshok. 
"I feel. my gt>neration ... is the last link with the Holocaust," she said, adding that it is their 
Library 
continued from page l 
both groups. 
Tim allocation of 24-hour space was a major issue accord­ing to Kelly Gritten, who served as the representative for the graduate student union. 
"I think 24-hour access is one of the most pressing student con-responsibility to documr,nt the tragedy in terms of "not death, not destruction, but life." 
"We will survive," she said. "We will be creative." 
Eliach is a professor at Brooklyn College. She is the founder of the first Center for Holocaust Documentation and Research in the United States. She was the subject of a PBS rlocumentarY, and has written rrtany books.' 
Eliach also lectured at Notre Dame on Monday night about the importance of education in fostering tolerance. During her visit, she spoke to history and theology classes and met with graduate students. 
"She really has been interact­ing with students," said Betty Singer, director of the Notre Dame Uolocaust Project. 
"It is indeed a big pleasure and privilege for me to be here," Eliach said. 
cerns," she· said. 

As of now, the prnjected 24­hour space would include por­tions of the first flour and the hascment. although issues of zoning and security still need to be reviewed. 
Special reading rooms for the medieval institute and theology department, along with more quiet study areas are also being considered for future renovation stages. 
SMC FOUNDERS DAY 


Cmbracing lfl'e season, 
while indulgm!c'. in the k\livity of the harvest. 
Prc,cnting menus lh,tl co111plimcnt the foll sea,on 
with the finest rood, .it has to oiler. Be our guest , at Sorins and celebrate a ch,tngc in dining. >visit us within The Morris Inn 
Where it matters most. 

As one of the world's leading diversified technology companies, we're breaking new ground in everything from defense and commercial electronics, to aviation, to engineering and construction. As a Raytheon employee, you'll contribute to the development of exciting, revolutionary technology design€d to make life better, easier, and safer throughout the world. Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our award-winning NightSight™ technology. 
But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge. And enthusiasm about the future. In return, we offer exceptional training and professional development opportunities. A supportive, down-to-earth work environment. And incredible benefits including flexible schedules designed to respect your quality of life. 
So you can still show off al/ those great qualities ofyours outside of work, too. 
We'll be visiting your campus soon -contact your career placement office to schedule an interview. If you are unable to meet with us, please e-mail your resume to: resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no attachments), or mail to: Raytheon Company, Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas. TX 75266, U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
Opportunities are available for exceptional students with the following majors: 
• Aeronautical Engineering  • Computer Science  • Management  
• Chemical Engineering  • Electrical Engineering  • Marketing/Communications  
• Civil Engineering and  • Finance/Accounting  • Math  
Construction Management  • Human Resources  • Mechanical Engineering  
• Computer Engineering  • Industrial and Labor Relations  • Physics  

Check out our Website at www.rayjobs.com/campus for further information including a calendar of recruiting events. At Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for adiverse workforce by attracting, retaining, and recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people. 



Bringing technology to the edge 
Raytheon 


Clinton blasts rejection of judge 
WASHINGTON 

Prnsidunt Clinton today angrily criticizud Senate Hepublicans for killing the nomination of a Missouri judge who is black, saying the party-line vote strengthens the impression "that they treat minority and women judicial nominees unfairly and unequally." Senators defeated the nomination of Ronnie Whitu, the first black jurist on the Missouri Supreme Court, on a 54-45 vote after com­plaining of a handful of votes to reverse the doath ponally. It was the lirst time the full SenatP has votPd down a judge nominated by Clinton. Clinton issued a toughly worded statcm1rnt on the votn Tuesday night and then repeated his criticism before cameras today in the Hose Garden. In both instances, he called tlJ11 vote "a disgraceful act uf partisan politics" by Hepublicans. "Oner. again," Clinton said, "this creates a rnal doubt about the Senate's ability to fairly pt>rform its constitutional duty lo advise and consent." 
Nuke safety put in question 
Wi\SIIINGTON 

Two nuclmtr accidnnts in lnss than a wnek halfway around the world came as America's nudPar industry has been largely free of Pmbarrassments and. in fact, has successfully pushed for less fodnral rngulation. Tlw question looming among industry execu­LiVf\S and foderal regulators is whether the incidents in .Japan and South Korea will have an impact on a U.S. industry that many bc·liP.ve alrPady is in its twilight years. "They shouldn't have any impact," insists Steve K11rnkP.s, a spokesman for the Nuclear FnP.rgy Institute, thP. nuclear power industry trade group. "For more than a decade now we have been achieving steady, consistent gains in safety and operating performance." But some industry watchdog groups say the nvents in Japan and South Korea sent an omi­nous mnssage about safety. 
Berlin palace may be rebuilt 
BERLIN 

i\ Gorman political party is proposing the rebuilding of the immense palace that once stood in the center of Berlin but was destroyed by the former East German rngime. The business-oriented Free Democrats entered a motion Wednesday in the lower house of parliament, the BundP.stag, proposing to use private funds to erect the massive structure whose founda­tions date back to 1451. The Berlin Palace suffornd somn damage during World War II and was used as a museum immediately after the war, In 1950, the East German leadership declared the building unfit for reconstruction and demolished it against protests from around the world. 
Mttrket Jflt1tch: 1017 
/\MEX: 
782.S2

JONES Up:
-1.60 Nasdaq:

10588.34 
2857,21 um +57.54 
1B 
NYSE: 
Down:
609.90 
1531
+I0.60 S&P 500: 1325.40 
Composite
+24.05 

Volume: +187.75 783,600,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

l"Ufdt6?11Y IU'KEB ~1rU&tiltif Ji(i6,I~ ~ICf 
<.;UJRAI. CR(')).SINL; MCI WORUlCOM IN  can WCOM  +U.1.Z. +-c.:n  +J.3125 +2.94ZS  28.50 711.HS  
SVNf!Sf. ,\.\IS H /\MLRIC/\ ONLINE ilF.1.1.COMl'IJIU ~PRINTCORfl  SNRL AOL Df.Ll Ff.1N  -5l.41 +·U\5 -1.1~ -t-K.70  -ll.872; +$},()()() ,.$02l +S.12SU  11.69 119.00 .J.31 HOO  
INTf.LCORr MH:TUlSOfl ,:oRr AMAZON.COM INC  INl MSFT AM2N  +0.'1'} +2.04 +S.10  +0,7.52.5. . l.817~ ......0025  76.IJ4 9l6Y 62.44  
ATlilf(:oRr  T  +.1.60  +l.6ZOO  46.62  

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS ECUADOR 
One dies in rain of volcanic ash 
Associated Press 
QUITO 
After menacing Quito for a year, Ecuadorean vol­cano Guagua Pichincha claimed its first victim Wednesday, an elderly man with respiratory problems who died after heavy ash fell over lhe city. 
A man and three women were hurt when they fell from the roofs of their homes trying to clean ash that had built up overnight, the Red Cross said. 
Authorities said the 15,840-foot Pichincha has dumped 5,000 tons of ash on this city of 1.4 million people in the last 24 hours. The volcano, located 8.5 miles west of Quito, began spitting ash again Wednesday morning after raining down volcanic dust for five hours Tuesday. 
Officials have said the volcano may rain ash for months. 
On Wednesday, people hurried along Quito's streets covering their mouths and noses with white cloth masks to pro­tect against the dust-like ash that swirled through the air. 
"This is horrible. The ash burns your eyes and your throat. How are we going to live like this for months?" complained Giselle Valdez, an office worker who was in the streets running an errand for her boss. 
An 89-year-old man died early Wednesday "because the ash that has fallen on Quito caused a respiratory crisis," said Red Cross spokesman Cristian Rivera. "The dead man suffered from chronic pulmonary disease." 
Red Cross paramedics provided emergency treat­m en t for dozens of people with respiratory problems, Rivera said. Officials have recommended that elderly people and persons suffer-
RUSSIA 

Airstrikes continue against Chechnya 

Workers sweeping ashes from a rooftop look out on Quito. A nearby volcano dumped 5,000 tons of ash on the city Wednesday, killing one elderly man. 
Hussia, Chechen Deputy Prime Minister Kazbek Makhashev told the lnterfax news agency. 
Chechen President Asian Maskhadov declared Wednesday that he was taking direct command of the armed forces. Several powerful Islamic warlords oppose Maskhadov's gov­ernment. 
Maskhadov also has declared martial law, and his government says the economy will be placed on war footing. 
Russia stepped up its economic campaign against Chechnya, saying it canceled. 
Some 200 workers using heavy sweepers were work­ing Wednesday to clean the runways. Airport officials said planes could not take off until the ash stopped falling and the runways were clean because ash could clog aircraft engines. 
The government closed all schools on Tuesday and the schools remain closed until the ash threat passes. 
would cut off electricity and withhold food ship­ments, 
Last week, Hussia sent ground forces into Chechnya following weeks of heavy air attacks. 
Russian officials say their forces have seized a third of Chechnya -the plains north of the Terek River. 
The Russians may halt on the Terek's north banks, where troops have been fortifying their posi­tions. Moving across the river would bring the Russians into hilly territory and subject them to Chechen guerrilla attacks. 
Associated Pccs, 

GROZNY 
Russian forces battered Chechnya with airstrikes and artillery Wednesday as Moscow's top brass consid­ered whether to push deeper into the breakaway region. 
The Russians rained artillery shells on north­western Chechnya and carried out bombing raids in the east, Chechen offi­cials said. There was no immediate word on casual­ties . 
Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev said Hussian 
forces may mount new offensives toward Grozny, the capital, and other towns. Russia has given few indications of its strat­egy, forcing the Chechens to spread out their forces. 
"Everything will depend on the situation," Sergeyev said. 
He maintained the Russians were encounter­ing only "pockets of resis­tance." But Chechen lead­ers said there was heavy fighting in the face of the Russian advance. 
Chechnya's Muslim cler­ics were expected to call for a "holy war" against ing from asthma move out of Quito until the volcano halts its eruptions of ash. 
Scientists have discounted any threat to Quito from lava flows because the mouth of the crater faces away from the capital and another peak stands as a barrier between the active peak and Quito. 
Authorities warned the city's inhabitants not to wash off the ash that had accumulated on sidewalks because the mix of water and ash produces a cement­like substance that could clog the city's drains. Heavy rain on Wednesday after­noon, however, frustrated officials in their efforts to keep drains from clogging. 
Quito's airport shut down Tuesday night and remained closed on Wednesday. All flights, both domestic and foreign, were 
.

orld 
•I 


Thursday, October 7, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

r page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 7, 1999 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
In other Senate news: 
. Amy Szestak, chairperson of the ad hoc SafeRide committee, addressed the Senate to update them on the committee's progress. 
"We believe SafeRidc should be continued." she said, high­lighting recent assaults and the hit and run accident on St. Peter Street as examples of why the University needs SafeRide. 
Among the propsals discussed by the committee is the possibili­ty of having paid positions on the SafeRidc staff. 
"We think this would help alle­viate some of the problems we've had with accountability in the past," said Szcstak. 

She said that SafeRide would most likely return for two nights a weekend, and depending on demand. possibly extend those days to include Thursday night. 
Carroll senator Patrick O'Donnell asked whether or not the committee had discussed an earlier proposal to operate SafeHide as a shuttle service. 
"We don't think it would be the most feasible idea," she said, adding concerns that it would act as a bar to bar shuttle, which is not why SafeRide origi­nated. 
Szestak expressed optimism that the new SafeRide would be in place next semester. 
. Lvons senator Jill Boroniec and "the Residence Life commit­tee reporled the results of their meeting with the directors of 
Frank: Jefferson 
influences UVA campus 
By HELENA RAYAM 
News Writer 
Thomas Jefferson's 19th cen­tury layout of the University of Virginia was profiled by Marie Frank. an architectural histori­an, during a lecture in Bond Hall Wednesday. 
"It's considered a masterpiece of American architecture," said Frank. 
A graduate of Notre Dame, Frank discussed that education was extremely important to Jefferson and motivated him to build an academic community that was practical for students. 
The University of Virginia's "academical village." was designed by Jefferson in the early 1820s. The school opened in 1825 with close to 100 stu­dents. Various features included the rotunda, pavilions. the Lawn and other structures that were "necessary to make the academ­ical village run as an academic crimmunity. which is what we typically don't look at in terms of architecture," Frank said. 

The buildings that Frank examined more closely were the hotels, a type of dining hall in the academic village of the University of Virginia. 
Jefferson preferred that stu­dents ate in smaller dining areas as opposed to what Frank said .Jefferson called a "common den of noise and filth." 
The hotels were relatively self­sufficient and allowed the University of Virginia to be its own secluded academic commu­nity made of individual resi­dences and dining areas. As a result, students had little inter­action with the surrounding town of Charlottesville. 
As more students arrived at the University of Virginia. the need for additional buildings increased and Jefferson's origi­nal plan had to be modified, but .Jefferson was very concerned about the placement of new buildings. After his death, many new buildings wen~ constructed and older ones were changed. The hotels were replaced by the large cafeterias that Jefferson opposed. 
LINCOLNWAY LAUNDRY & TANNING 
2822 LINCOLNWAY E., MISHAWAKA 256-2070 
SAVE ... SAVE. ..SAVE ... SAVE ... SAVE ... SAVE 
CHOOSE YOUR FAVORITE TANNING DEAL! 
• 

$20 FOR 20 VISITS FOR 30 DAYS $2 TANNING EVER DAY WOLFE SYSTEM BULBS 
MANY MORE PACKAGES TO CHOOSE FROM, CALL STORE FOR DETAILS 
WE HONOR OUR COMPETITOR'S ADVERTISED PRICES 
FREE WASH CARD! 
•10% 
STUDENT DISCOUNT 

•10% 
SENIOR DISCOUNT 


FULL DROP-OFF SERVICE FREE PICK-UP FOR ORDERS OF 75# OR MORE 
. . 

Notre Dame's dining halls, Becker's, and the Huddle. 
Boroniec said that they were particularly concerned with stu­dent offenses at Reeker's. 
"After hours they're still hav­ing problems with people verbal­ly abusing staff," she said. In addition. an ottoman and barstool have been stolen from the facility. 
Shoplifting from the Huddle has also increased dramatically, she said, prompting them to closely monitor security cameras throughout the store. 
"If need be, they'll start press­ing formal charges," she said. 


.!, 0 0 0 
Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
. The senate decidBd to pass three resolutions concerning profit allocations from "The Shirt" program and senate attBndance. The third resolution officially changed the name of the freshman class council chair­person to freshman class presi­dent. 

Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

\Ycb ,ire: \\Ww.,111rn • .i,~ eom/pjf E-mail: pulliam(~ ,·.tml!\\'-,l'llm 

Thursday, October 7, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Author captures plight of Irish 
By ELLEN FITZGERALD News Writer 
Chronicling stories of Irish who were sent to Australia in famine times, Australian novelist Thomas 
Keneally d i s -
CUSSfld 
his new book, " T h e Gr e at Sh a me and the 

Triumph Keneally 
of the Irish in the English-Speaking 
World," Wednesday night in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
"I was keen to write about th<i Irish phenome­non because it fascinated me," he said. Kern~ally, who also penned "Schindler's List," explores stories of Irish convicts who were sent into captivity in Australia by the British. 
Keneally has mainly writ­ten fiction, but after writing "Schindler's List," which is based on actual Holocaust events, he began to think about his own Jrish ances­tors and decided to write their story. This resulted in "The Great Shame." 
"!The book] deals with the hope ol' peace in Ireland and a hope of an 
end to the shame and end to the great division," said Keneally, who explained he felt the duty LO tell the story of the anonymous and degraded Irish. 
The great shame of the Irish by the British began in the 19th century. "Ireland continued to hem­orrhage from the treatment it received from Westmin­ster," said Keneally. 
During this Ara, Young Ireland, a nationalist group that he said identified with the underclass, emerged. Many of these nationalists were sent as prisoners to Australia or fled to the United States. "The Great Shame" follows such men and worn1m and chronicles thAir experiences in Australia and the USA. 
The book begins with the story of Hugh Larking, an ancestor of Keneally's wife. Larking, like many of the underclass Irish, turned to crime because of the potato blight and the treatment by the British. He, in fact, was only condemned for acting out against his British land­lord. 
This is representative of the rest of Keneally's tales, many of which tell of Irish women who beg to be sent to Australia to join their convict husbands and of Irish who escaped exile by fleeing to the United States. There was more than 
crime that drove the Irish from Ireland, however. 
"The potato blight was the trigger which sent many people to the Americas," he said. The Irish who immigrated to the 
U.S. were almost immedi­ately taken in to the American culture, accord­ing to Keneally. 
They became very involved with politics, espe­cially the Democratic politi­cal machine because they looked at it as "a platform of intervention to Ireland." 
After the Civil War in the United States, the Finneans, an Irish republi­can brotherhood that embodied such ideas, emerged. The group felt that American power was a means to help the suffering Irish. They unsuccessfully attempted to campaign in Ireland and to capture Canada and trade it to the British for Ireland, he said. 
John Keneally, the author's great uncle, was a member of this group and a devout Democrat who bought a ship to rescun six Irish convicts who remained in Australia. 
Keneally believes crimes of the Irish are small com­p arecl to those of the British Government, he said. "The Irish sent to Australia were not crimi­nals at all," ho said. "But the mothers ol' the nation." 
BOOK SEARCH 
• Used, rare and out-of-print 
books 
• 
Initial cost of $Z.OC1 

• 
Nationafly -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, lN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

t1aHOCKEYt1a 
'11QNIGHT vs. Micbiga,."'l 7:00pm Frid;Y o:t-8 vs Mit1idgn 7:00pm 
Come celebrate Snoopy's 50th Birthday today before the Hockey game at the Joyce Center Varsity Shop from 12-5pm or at the Notre Dame Bookstore 6-9pm. Have your picture taken with Snoopy! 
~ 


page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 7, 1999 
ENGLAND 

Search continues for survivors of London train crash 
The assessment of the avail­carriage used a table to break a "dereliction of duty" in connec­were traveling about 60 mph
Associated Press 

able systems will be carried out hole in the window. tion with the earlier crash. when the Thames train crossed 
LONDON 
Searchers working their way through a train carriage that was transformed into an inferno in a rush-hour collision reached a grim conclusion Wednesday: The death toll may exceed 70. 
Twenty-eight people are known to have died when the two commuter trains collided at them height of rush hour Tuesday morning near London's Paddington Station. They are likely to be some of the missing 70, but police have not yet inden­tified the bodies recovered. 
Authorities also have received reports from friends and rela­tives about another 100 people who may have boarded the trains. 
Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner Andy Trotter was asked at a news con­ference if the fin al death toll would be as high as 170. 
"I don't think it is going to be as high as that. What I can say at the moment is that it is 70-plus," he replied. 
"Yesterday's train crash was a terrible tragedy, the scale of which is only just becoming apparent," he added. 
The blaze reached tempera­tures estimated as high as 1,800 degrees, burning a first-class carriage so badly that emer­gency services have not yet fin­ished examining it. 
At least 14 of the 150 people taken to local hospitals were seriously hurt. 
Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott announced an urgent independent inquiry into train protection systems designed to prevent trains passing through signal lights when they are at red. 
CORRECTION 

An article in Thursday's Observer said student mother Lynette Vargas lives in University Village with her son and her boyfriend. They do not live together. He has a separate apartment. 
The Observer regrets the error. 
Knott Hall Fiesta 
Spoorored Ry: 
Th~ Men ofKnott Hall And 
laA/il,nlfl 

A Two D•y Celebration in Recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month 
Latin American Round Tobie Discll$$ion "The Roles of Latino Students, Administrators, Faculty, and Staff' 
Featuring: 
Adria Penag0< 

Facilitator Assistant Directorofthe Office ofMulticultural Student Affairs 
Professor Maria Rosa Olivaa-Wulillms 
Romance Languages and Literatures Kellogg Institute Faculty Residential Fellow 
Prvfessor Juan Rivera 
College ofBusiness Administration Associate Professor ofAccounting And Students 
Marisa Marquez Cynthia Vega Angela Anderson Thursday, October 7, 1999 
8p.m. 
Lafortune Ballroom 
Hasta La Victoria 
(Un,;f Victory) 
Featuring: 
IHJWalk Productions 

Providing the best of Salsa, Merengue, and Hip-Hop Music Along with Food Provided By 
La Esperania 

Wann-up with the Juggernauts before the Arizona State Pep-Rally Friday, October 8, J999 4-(ip.m At Knott Hall 
independently of the public "It was pretty horrific. I feel inquiry Prescott announced incredibly lucky," said Jones, Tuesday. who was hospitalized with 
Survivors have been speaking burns. of the horrors they witnessed. Meanwhile. the train compa­
Among them was Brendon. nies said their investigation Bentley, who described from his would focus on the outbound hospital bed the terrifying Thames Trains service, which moments after the crash, when may have gone through a red dazed and frightened passengers light. scrambled to escape from the The London-bound Great burning train. Western train had a green light 
"I could see to proceed. the flames and according to a there were "Yesterday's train crash statement some people Wednesday by
was a terrible tragedy, 
trapped Great Western, 
the scale of which is only 
underneath Thames Trains 
the seats," he just becoming apparent.,, and Railtrack, said. the company "We had to which operates
Andy Trotter 
try to get over the rail infra-them and try Deputy Assistant Commissioner structure. 
to give them a hand, but we couldn't, so then the first priority was just to get off the carriage." 
An emergency doctor at St. Mary's Hospital, where many of the injured were taken, said the injuries were among the worst he'd ever seen. 
"You had people coming in with their faces bandaged and just their two eyes looking out and the smell of burnt flesh," said Robin Touquet. 
Police and firemen continued Wednesday to search through the widespread, mangled and burnt wreckage of Britain's worst rail disaster in a decade. 
"We are sure that no other survivors will be found," Trotter said. "It is increasingly clear that there is very little else to recover from the scene." 
One passenger who escaped, 38-year-old Steve Jones, said he got out when another man in the Signals in the 
vicinity were in working order, the statement said. 
One of two data recorders from the Thames train was reported found, but it was believed no data recorders were on the Great Western train. 
Thames Trains earlier said its driver had been working for two months after completing 11 months of instruction. 
The train companies said they were studying a specific signal that the train drivers' union had complained was invisible at some points to drivers leaving Paddington. There had been at least eight incidents of trains going through red lights at that signal since 1993, the union said. 
Tuesday's collision occurred on the same stretch of track where a 1997 crash killed seven people and injured 150. Great Western had been fined $2.47 million for 
~~~,l:~i-~/?':-_. . . 
. ,_, .: _ _~: .__ ._ /.-. •, _· ___ ..{~~;"~ 

~·.·iF YOU'RE AYEGAS stt,QWsi~~(:.' .'+' !Ji;p.ftoe.f.eLY NOT~STUD~,ft .ANDJF'VOU'RE'NOt,+n~QE.~J~jREif¥ffU'CAN'lBUXAT www.,1g(i.t0H1~ : ­
~. Introducing edu.com, the fl,.i at~re on th~ web where only students can save up to 101 on na.._;,z:,t';;J brand computers, software, textbooks, and more, every day.Tauah luck Vanda; 

The Great Western train origi­in front of the larger train. nated in Cheltenham, western Tuesday's accident was England. The Thames train, Britain's worst rail crash since westbound for nearby Bedwyn December 1988, when three had just pulled out of the station trains collided outside London's when the two collided. Clapham Junction, killing 35 
Reports indicated both trains people. 
Irish Country Bed & Breakfast Registry 
"'Ulfue tpJ« 't.t. a/.wa'fd ~ a. fda.ce tt,. 4ta.tf. " 
16901 Jackson Road South Bend Call: (219) 255-1516 Fax: (2 I 9) 257-4193 
Web: www.irishcountry.com 
Georgine Resick. soprano 
wit~1 Maria Stablein, piano 
Sunday, October, 10, 1999 2 pm. Annenbg Audifa,ium 
All German prorr.m of lieder by Ludwlr van Betthoven, Anton Webern, Richard Stnull, Rol>frt Schumann, Hugo Wolf & Kun Welll 
Tickets: $3 Students, $6 Seniors, $8 ND/SMC Community, $10 General Available at the Lafortune Box Office, or charge by phone, t -8128 
for more Information: www.nd.edu/-muslc or 1-6201 

Thursday, October 7, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Bradley, Gore trade accusations 

VERSITY.COM 
Would Like to Thank our Campus Operations Manager and the team of N otetakers and Marketing Reps 
who Bring the Internet's Premier Academic Resource 
to 

Notre Dame Students! 
Find out more about what they do And how you can join their team at WWW. VERSITY.COM Study Smarter 
Associated Press 
MANCHESTER, N.I-1. 
Bill Bradley on Wednesday accused Democratic presiden­tial rival Al Gore of using "dart­board poli­tics" to dis­tract voters from the issues. 
Bradley refused to answer questions about state­men ts the vice presi­dent has made implying that Bradley is quitter or less of a true Democrat because of the way he resigned from the Senate in 1996. 
"I understand what happens in a campaign -someone makes a charge and then you're asked to make a charge," he said. "I don't think the American people want the poli­tics of the dartboard. 1 think they're tired of that." 
Ri·adley's remarks came dur­ing a campaign trip to New Hampshire, where he will face Gore in a forum later this 

month. Gore has criticized 
Bradley for not accepting his 
challenge to debate earlier than 
that. 
Asked to respond to Bradley's 
characterization ol' Gore's 
"dartboard politics," the vico 
president's spokusman, Chris 
Lehane, said, "Bill Bradley says 
he's a differnnt kind or politi­
cian and wants a different kind 
of politics, y1it it's Bill Bradley 
who's acting like a classic politi­
cian and ducking the debates." 
He added. "In truth, it's Al Gore who's looking to break out of the uld politics and raise the discoursp and dialogue to a whole new level." 
During his visit to the Manchester Community llealth Center. Bradley also criticized Gore's plan to expand federal efforts to insure all children and incrementally extend coverage to uninsured adults. Bradley said his $65 billion plan to dra­matically expand the federal health care system would get the job don,r, sooner. 
"Big problems rrned big solu­tions," he said. "I think his approach is much more incre­mental. It's a much slower path to get to the destination." 
As you see it, is our two-party political system working? Want Reform? Work for Reform! Then vote for Reform! Reform Party seeking college volunteers, concerned voters, contributions, candidates, and the creation of an ND on-campus organization. Your participation & support is vital for Reform to occur. 
For details contact: NW. Indiana Coordinator, 219-926-7576 Slate Pany Chairman, 219-267-3434 or email: verp@waveor1e.ne/ 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Thursday, October 7, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre D,mc, IN 46556 024 Sowh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46S1G 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Kyan  David Rugero  
AssT. l\,lANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: rim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 

SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vant'gas SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalurn 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Hudar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAJ•111cs EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us OFflCE MANAGER/GENERAL INl'0..............631-747 l FA.x. .... . . . .... . . . . .... . . . .... . . ..... . . .... . .... . . .... .631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observer@<larwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIH.. .... . ....... .... . ........631-4542 MANAGING EmToR/AssT. ME.......... ..........631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
V!EWl'OINL ..............................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS......................................................63 l-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'S..............................................63l-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO, ................ ·•····· ...............................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l/obrerver. nd.edu for daily updares ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews

minute forecasts 
online features for spe­

advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 

and rates ofprim ads 
about The Observer

archives to search for 
articles published after 
co meet the editors and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available tO all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Question, regarding Obsen,erpolicies should br direa­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelk Krupa. 
r 
" 
' ,. 
7 ' \ ~ 
~ ­
( 
J ..--;--,u 
I 
r· ,,, 
-__ \ I 
v_ 
\. '> r 
,----, ,< 

Don't be afraid to let our children grow 
"More than merely saving lives, those lives should be worth living. Many poor countries are experiencing explosive population growth, far beyond their ability to provide a decent standard of living. Much of this is due to the effect 
Gabriel of modern science, Martinez for example in health and agricul­Like Arrows ture," (David in the Hands Sheldon, The ofa Warrior Economist, Sept. 4, 1999.) Two weeks ago, we argued that a fast-growing population is able to come up with the solutions to its problems more easily, even if (because) it puts more strain on its resources. If resources were well distributed, we would not need to fear population growth: Every child would be born with a loaf of bread under his arm. True, children are not born with televisions, but in a just society there should be enough for all. A misanthrope is someone who hates or mistrusts humankind. Although it is usually applied to extreme introverts, I will borrow the word to name those who celebrate catastrophes because they reduce "overpopulation." I am scared at the mindset of misan­thrope David Sheldon. Overpopulation makes lives not worth living, he says, and advances in health and agriculture are to blame. There's been too much food and too much medicine, and now there are too many people. It is scary to think in this mindset because the thought that springs to mind is with­holding health and nutrition. People will starve and die like they used to in the good old days of stable populations. Maybe population growth will be reversed in Africa, and those societies will become able to provide a decent standard ofliving. Sheldon (or UNICEF) gets to decide whether poverty or dis­
ease make a life not worth saving. Things will be good after the bodies fin ­ish rotting in the streets, dead from lack of food and medicine. 
Misanthropes are human enough to avoid saying that they want this (at least out loud). So instead, they say that they are for "population control," which means state programs aided by the education of the masses. Of course, these can be forces for good because responsible parenting is a duty for the family and families can be helped by society in this endeavor (cf. Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2372). But in the hands of misanthropes, these pro­grams become coercion and brain washing: Witness China's population policies and the forced sterilizations in Peru. Witness your friends and rela­tives, who have been lied into believing (implicitly) that people are evil, insa­tiable and unproductive: The less of them, the better. 
Widespread contraception is clearly bad from a practical point of view. A contracepting society (like Sweden, Spain or Italy) is a society dominated by retirees who live off of a declining workforce. It is an old society, where the young are the minority and innova­tion and creativity suffer. A contracept­ing society is one that despises its ulti­mate resource -people. 
Misanthropes will probably reject being called this. "I love people, so I don't think a child should grow up in a slum." But misanthropes are bent to see every child as a burden, every man as a liability and every pregnant woman as a danger. Moreover, they are blind to the endless creativity of the human person and to our yet unex­hausted capacity to solve our problems -in a just society. 
People lovers, like me, don't think, "Let's fill every square inch of the Earth." Yet W() sec visceral fear of pop­ulation growth -truly homophobia ­as either useless or destructive. People lovers hold that every person has digni­ty and that a new person is an invalu­able gift. 
Moreover, we recognize that people have a beneficial economic effect. Because of this (not in spite of it) we also hold that begetting must be responsible and undertaken with gen­erosity and prudence. 
Misanthropes frequently say that peo­ple lovers advocate having children without any thought for tomorrow. This reduces women to child-makers, enslaves men to overworking or makes them careless and impoverishes the children. My guess is that irresponsible parenting docs have those effects. But this is not what we advocate. 
What we advocate is generosity and prudence. A new person is always a gift to be celebrated and desired. Because parents and society must be able to provide these gifts and allow them to reach their full potential, there is a just space for the regulation of births. Parents that face physical, psychologi­cal, social or economic limitations are justified in spacing births. if they have a spirit frne of selfishness and full of gen­erosity. 
To do this, they must use the right means, means that respect the dignity of the human person. Moreover, the state and society, using the right means. are allowed to establish a demographic policy (cf. CCC 2368-72). 
Human beings are very good. Don't be afraid, don't have children with fear. Bring more lif'e into the world with responsibility and openness. 
Gabriel Martinez is a graduate student in the economics department. His column runs every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not rwces­sarily those ofThe Observer 


DILBERT 
AR.EE.R. OF TH UPSTART EMC> BHOR.E HEP., ME. 

SCOTT ADAMS  
er,;:=~=======::=:::::-, ~ I NEED VOLUNTEER.~ i j TO GIVE CON~TR.UCTI\/E 1 ~ CRITICISI'-\ TO -gJ HUMf>..N RE50URCE: 5. ~ ¥  I DON'T LIKE '<OUR.. ATTITUDE..  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The fruit ofsilence is prayer, the fruit ofprayer is faith, the fruit offaith is love, the fruit oflove is service, and the fruit ofservice is peace." 
Mother Teresa of Calcutta Founder of the Sisters of Charity, Nobel Laureate 

.....---------------------------------------------~·-----­
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 7, 1999 
Celebrate Saint 
Mary's Pride 
Saint Marv's Pride Wenk. 
'\/\'hat doos it nwan to you'' 
For thos11 of' you unw t.o SaiJ1t Mary's or whu 
don't. know. Saint Mary's Pride Day started two y<•ars ago. On a bt·ight fall day, a li,ttnr was 
puhlislwd in Tlw Ohs('rvt>r 
hv two Notrn 1)11nw Nakasha wonwn. calling us "parn­
Ahmad 

sitPs, .. among otlwr tlling-s. Tlw ramp11s comm11nity, 
So, What's

lllldcrslandahly upsd, organizi-cl Saint Mary's My Point? 
l'ridP Dav to colohrato tlw 
wo11wn 1;1' Saint Mary's. 
•\nrl so was born a ,ww Collngc tradition. Thti l'Vtrnl was Sll('.h a surc1•ss that last Y('ar Saint Marv's 1•stablislind l'ridn \Vonk, an N1tirn w1mk ,fov,;lPd to Saini Mary's and il.s uniquennss. This w1ick is I.hi' SPrnnd Annual Saint Marv's l'ridn Wnek. Y1•sttwday was llw third Pridi Day. 
So, ,vhal do1is it tnf'an, to havn a Saint Mary's Pride Week'! 
It moans that W() recognize, acknowledge and rPIPbralP that wn go to a wom1m's college. Vve ,•plebratP the fact that we are unique because wn am a wonrnn 's cnllcgn and we celebrate our environnwnl. For most of us, this is the first ­and probably last -tirm: lhal we will spend !'our years in tlw rnmpany of women. We live with women, eat. with women, learn with womP!l, grow with wonwn. While college is a growi11g ('XpPriencl' for most pnople, going to a \,VOlllPll's ro!IPgP is all tlw more so. Saint Mary's 1'1·idP WPek givPs us an opportunity to formally apprnc.iat<' that. quality. This is wbat it means to lw proud ofSainl Mary's. 
W1• haVP s1wnt this v\t)Pk cnlebrating our ath­l!'t.es. our majors and all of tlw women who rontribufP to our campus. As well we should. 
llnw1:v1~r. as part or a women's college, wn should also tu·.knowl!•dge and support women l1!ss fortunate and show solidarity with thnm. /\ml as part of that solidarity, "Take Back thn Woods" is lwing organized, a takeoff of the "Take Back tlw '.\light" marches. What docs it mean to "take back the night?" 
"Tak!' Back tlw Night" marchns wern begun by victims or domestic viohince and sexual assault. The idea lrnhind "Take Back the Night" marrlws was to have these women to march in solidarity, to "ttlkn back" the night from aitack­ors, from assaults and from fear. As women, and espncially as womnn at a women's college, w1i need to recognize tlrn seriousness of this issue and that it can happen to any woman. Even here al Saint Mary's, we arc not safe walking alone al. night. Ostensibly, a women's campus is the one place where we should feel safo and in control. But even here we can't. 
So, one of the c1vcnts that ends Saint Mary's !'ride Week and begins the YWCA's Week Without Violence is nur own takeoff of the "Take Hack the Night" marches. This Sunday, we hope to "Tah Back the Woods" at Saint Mary's. The march will lead into the woods, with women singing and performing dances symbolizing women's connection to the earth. Afterwards. there will be a bonfire and refresh­rmmts! 
So, you ask, why on earth should I show up for this march? Because this is Saint Marv's Pridr. Weck, and it means that we should~'t just be proud of Saint Mary's women -we (and this means men 1.00!) should take a stand for all womf'n. The fact that in 1g99 women cannot walk alouc without fear on a women's campus is disheartm1ing. It is sad. It is ludicrous. And unfortunatnly, it is true. "Take Rack the Woods" gives us the opportunity to take a stand, to not be intimidated. It gives victims a way to release their fears. 
Most people havn participated in the Pride Day evf'nts -the field gamrs, the pep rally, wearing the ribbons. But this march might be tho most important event of Saint Mary's Pride Wenk. 
Show your support for all women. Take back t.hc woods. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a senior at Saint Mary's. flrr mlumn appears et1ery other Thursday. 
'/'he uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
We need patriotism consistent with Christianity 
l can understand how some may feel hurt by Father Cordaro's dissent against the military. A verbal attack on flrn military is an attack on our vPry reality. We livf' in u country which is unarguably the largest military power in tlrn world. Here at Notre !Jame, we have a history of military involvnment dating hack to thf' Ch'il War. \i\'e claim a larger percirntage of undergraduates enrolled in HOTC (] 0 percr,nt) than any othr.r volun­tary ROTC program. We must never forget the sacri­fices of the countless sol<liers who gave their livlis for the good ol'thr,ir follow citizens; thf'y indeed ''did it all for (us).'' How can we not be humbled by their self­sacrifice anc.l commitment to a higher cause'? 
A much as I empathize with Sarah and Katie's testi­mollics, rembrace Fat.her Cordaro's radical challenge to live l'or a higher cause still: The cause of Christ. As Christians, w1~ arf' called not to a patriotism rooted in protectionism and aggrandizement, but to a patriotism which holds our r.ountry's actions to the Light of Christ. Docs our nation heed Jesus' message: "But now I tell you: Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you" (Matthew 5:44)? When Jesus hung dying on the Cross -God as a human, dying for us ­He asked for the forgiveness of his killers. If even 
Last week, we saw a flier advertising a lecture by renowned Latino film director Gregory Nava concern­ing the Latin American experience in America. We said to ourselves, "Hey! We're interested in Latin American culture! We should go!" We were not aware at this time that it was to be a chance to be oppressed! 
That's right, we were oppressed. In his attempt to motivate Latino students and encourage them to cele­brate their culture and love themselves, he felt it nec­essary to make very negative, sweeping generaliza­tions about Caucasian people, who he dubbed ''garabachos" and "gringos." For those of you not familiar with these terms, they arc derogatory words used to refer to Caucasians, especially from the United States. .Just for a bit of clarification here, we are two women, one Caucasian and nne Carihbean-American of Haitian descent. We both experienced a sense of alienation when hearing such comments, especially when repeated pleas for the deconstruction of cultural stereotypes and barriers ("because we are all brothers and sisters in the end," says Nava) were framed with derogatory comments abo.ut "other" people, that is, "non-Latinos." 
Among the stereotypes espoused by Mr. Nava: All Latinos where he comes from dance salsa and cat tacos although oppressed, whereas "other people" cry into their beers. "Young middle class white men" lis­ten to death metal music and are suicidal. 
Alarmed, we stood during the question-and-answer period of the event to ask Mr. Nava about his use of derogatory terms and his continuation of stereotypes. He conceded that the terms "garabacho" and ''gringo" are derogatory, yet he insisted that he had not meant God's human suffering and death do not transcend forgiveness or warrant violent defonse ("Put your sword back in its pl.ace"(John 18:11)), how can our own deaths and sufferings? As followers of' Christ, we are called to lives of' undiscriminating forgiv,mess and un<'onditional lovH. Yes, our world freqtwntly strays from these axioms, but we arc urged: "Do not conf'orm to tlrn standards of the world, but let God transform you inwardly ... " (Homans 12:2). 
How practical is all this idealism? Jesus was not a killer; nor was he a masochist. Only when we stop fearing our "enemies" do we begin to trust in tho Prince or Peace. This peace or nonviolence -true sell'­def'ensri -is the challenge of Christianity. "Tho peacn thaL Christ givet. is to guid,i you in the decisions you make; for it is to this peace that God has called you ... " (Colossians 3:15). 
We should not be shaken by Father Cordaro's mes­sage: We read it every Sunday at Mass. 
Rachel Soltis Sophomore Pasquerilla Eas, October 6, 1999 
to be offensive. He admitted that he was making broad generalizations about Caucasians. Furthermore, he insinuated that as non-Latinos, we would not have been bothered by stereotypes about Latinos, but now that we were experiencing stereotypes about Caucasians, we were upset. Then he said, "Now you know what we [Latinos] go through. How does it feel?" And many of the Latino students of Notre Dame attending the lecture proceeded to APPLAUD this man. 
We left. We freely admit that this was an extremely close-minded action on our part. Mr. Nava was given a fair chance to defend himself. Instead of indignantly walking out during the middle of the lecture, we wait­ed until the end to see if he could perhaps clarify his position. After hearing his defense, we decided that it would be best lo leave. 
Iris Outlaw followed our departure to explain that Mr. Nava was brought to Notre Dame in an attempt to give all sides a chance to speak. She indicated that this was meant to be an educational experience for every­one involved. We asked, "What are we supposed to learn here, how to be oppressed?" 
And she answered, "Yes." 
We would like to extend a hearty Thank You to Notre Dame for this excellent Oppression Workshop_ Our conclusions: lfyou are oppressed, get into a posi­tion of power so that you can oppress others. 
Lindsay E. Van Loon Stephanie V. Andre Juniors Farley Hall October 5, I 999 


.. -­


O
ft-IE page 12 BSERVER Thursday, October 7, 1999 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Oscar season begins with a 'Beauty' 
gap between him and his teenage daugh­
By JASON HAMMONTREE 
ter Jane (Thora Birch), who can't stand Scene Movie Critic 
either of her parents. 
In short. Lester is a loser, his life is terri­
This month sAes the beginning of fall at ble and he tells viewers this in his op<'ning the movies. The action blockbusters are monologue. Lester also lets viewers know long gonP., thf1 studios have passed off that he witl be dead within the year. fram­their busts at the end of thP summer and ing the entire story with the underlying now they begin anticipation of his bringing out their 
"American Beauty" dPalb.
Oscar hopefuls. Bul Lester is not which thankfully going down without means more creative 
a light. His passions fare and an end to stirred by Jane's. "Blue Streak's" and beautiful and very "Double Jenpardy's" 0111 offive shamrocks young friend Angela run at the top of the (Mena Suvari), Lester boxo\1i.cr.. rp.solves to take bark Drnamworks' first Director: Sam Mencles som<: control in his offering for Uw fall is Starring: Kevin Spacey, Annette li!'e. This change 
tlH' new comPdy-shouldn't be attrib­drama "American Bening, Thora Birch and Wes Bentle-y uted to a mid-life cri­
Beauty," a biting look at modern suhurhia. For thP last half-cen­tury, the suburbs have been the setting where the American dream is lived out. And now. during the record prosperity of the Clinton administration, that "dream" has become more accessible to more and more pl\ople who live in more expensive homes with an S.U.V. in every driveway, and dual-income families with their 1.3 kids. 
But recently, films ranging from Ang Lee's "The Ice Storm" to Todd Solondz's "Happiness" have instead chosen to depict the 'burbs as a place of ever-increasing despair. In "American Beauty," this angst is very much a part of the Burnham fami­ly. Lester Burnham (Kevin Spacey) has been working for an advertising magazine for 14 years, hating every day of it and preparing for the day when he will be squeezed out by the company's move towards greater efficiency. 
He comes home to his wife Carolyn (Annette Bening), a real-estate agent who can't close a deal to save her life, as well as a maniacally controlling woman with whom all intimacy has been dead for years, at least with Lester. · Lester must also deal with the growing 
sis, as much as a conscious niturn to LPster's adolescencr.. Spurred on by the Lolita-esquc Angela, who relishes the fact that men are attract­ed to her, Lester begins working out, drinking beer and smoking pot, aided by his new neighbor Hicky Fitts (Wes Bentley,. who in spite of being a drug dealer, is perhaps the most likable char­acter in the film. 
Son to a marine colom~I and a mother who hovers around catatonic, Hicky soon becomes romantically involved with Jane, who, disgusted by L~ster's lustful obses­sion for her friend and her mother's own with the local real-estate king, Buddy Kane (Peter Gallagher), further isolates herself from her parents. 
The film continues along the path of the disintegration of their family life, until it shifts course slightly, ending in an almost murder mystery surrounding Lester's death. 
It is an often brutal but always frank ride. 
First-time screenwriter Alan Ball ("Cybil," "Grace Under Fire") and first­time film director Sam Mendes (Broadway's "The Blue Room" and "Cabaret") have combined to create a truly 

Photo courtesy of Dreamworks Kevin Spacey and Annette Bening star in "American Beauty," Dreamworks' new film that explores American suburbia. 
distinctive and ·indeed impressive film. Ball has fleshed out many outrageously demented characters, which the actors, while sometimes bordering on caricature, succeed in portraying without going over the top. Spacey especially delves into the role of the "new" Lester, behaving so badly without letting the audience see the actor behind the role. And Mendes directs almost as if the film were on-stage. He keeps the peripheral action to a minimum, wisely allowing the characters to be the focus -and oh, are they characters. 
With that in mind, however, a few of the scenes and even some of the actors do come across as a bit excessive. And the death of Lester seems an unnecessary focus at the end of the film. Ball relishes his brashness, and at times it is extreme. But it is also a daring look at what the American dream has become for all too many people. 
Lester, who by the end of the film has found both a beauty and contempt in the everyday life of suburbia, warns viewers that if they haven't yet found either of those, not too worry, because "we will soon." 

VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
'Swingers' offers ladies a lesson in manhood 
of course, "babies" (a.k.a. chicks, foxes or

By JOEY LENISKI 
as they say on "Party of Five," girls). 

Scene Movie Cri ric 
Now ladies, grab a notebook and pencil during these social gatherings, for it is 

Ladies, do guys ever do anything that makes sense? Do here where the male discourse is in full­you sit home watching "Party of Five," shake your head effect. Everything you ever wanted to and ask yourself, "Why doesn't my guy act like that?" 
know about males is on display: how they 

Easy answer: These adolescent, angst-filled, teeny-approach a girl, where in the room they trauma pop dra­stand, and how to dress, act and talk mas are fluff and "money."
"Swingers" puff about male The life this nouveau rat-pack lives schemata. They would make Frankie and Sammy proud, 
show you wha·t and they do it to swingin' perfccton. Vince 

Director: Doug Lirnan you want to 
Vaughn delivers the knockout perfor­Starring: Jon Favreau and Vince believe. Ladies, manr,e in this flick. offering Mike smooth 
hore's a chance to insights like, "What a girl respects is hon­

Vaughn 
reallv find out esty -you see the way they dross when what· makes guys they go out, they want you lo notice. 
tick. 
You're jusl letting her know that you think "But what is this lloly Grail of masculine revelation," shA's money." you ask'' QuitP simply, it is a small independent lilm This first effort from then unknown occupying a small space on the local video-rental store director Doug Lima11 borrows mise-en­shelf called "Swingers." 
scene from everyone from Scorsese to 

For those unenlightened ones who haven't seen the 
Tarantino, but lhe stripped-down !ilming !ilm. it is the story of Mike (Jon Favreau) and Trent 
technique is his own signature. The dia­(Vince Vaughn). two cats living out the L.A. nightlife look­logue, written by Favreau, is dynamic,ing for the next best thing they can find, which usually witly and almost requires its own dictio­turns out to be a darkly-lit shadefost at the local bar. nary to translate all of-the slang (thern's a These guys have mm mission in life: to bP cool no mattn 
surprise for what "business class" stands

it, at least Trent does. But Mike is not surA -after all. he
what they are doing. 
forl. Ladies, this is the best movie you have never seen, so

used to be the insecure fat guy from "lludy." So Trent and
Picking up girls: cool. Walking down the road: cool. pop it in, opf'n your eyes and ears and prepare to be
company set out to bring Mikey up to speed, which·means 
Playing Nintrmdo at home on a Priday night: cool. Do you taught. And after this seminar, you will never look at boys
cocktails. parties in the hills, 24-hour breakJa..,;t diners and 
see the trend'? These guys are high prolile and they know the same again. 

T H 
c~ne E R 
O
THE Thursday, October 7, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
THEATER PREVIEW 
'Hedda Gabler' plays at Washington Hall 
By AMBER AGUIAR 
Scene Writer 
IIPdda (iahler spins a WP.b of' manipulation and deceit, trapping tl1os1i arnuml lwr like helpless flies. Drawn by lwr good looks and manipulative ways, tlw cast of char­acters surrounding Ilndda quickly f'all victim to her dan­
gf\rous ga11u~s. 
111 Notn' Danrn's thnalr1\ production of llcnrik Ibsen's Hedda Gabler, senior Hedda Gabler Louiso Edwards plays the independent and
Notre Dame's Mainstage 
unpredictable young season gets underway this woman from Urn turn of 
the century. lledcla is a

weekend. 
surprisingly strong

. Where: Washington Hall 
woman f'or lm1· t.imn. Sim 

. When: Tonight, Fri. and Sat., has a passion for lif'c and rngrets Lim confines
7:30 p.m.; Sun. 2:30 p.m. 
of lwr rccnnt marriage 

. Tickets: Reserve cl Seats $9 
to .il1rg1>r1 T1•sman, a 
mt•f'k acad1\mic played

Seniors $8 by sPniDr Sean Dwynr.
All Students $6 
who is 110 match for 
IIPclda's biting wit. 

If Pr Iii'<' would s<'PIII to lw panning out perfectly. I !!'(Ida n•sidPs in hi•r drnam home with her maid and husband. as he' waits lo r<'ceivn a prnstigious university appoi11tmP11I that will allow tlw coupll' to livn very com­fortably. YPt lll'dda's unhridlnd nature kcnps her from P11joying this quiPI lil'P. Slw is a limy redliead with a passion for pistols, who finds amusPmPnL only in mis­f'hiPvously toying with lhosP around her. 
;\s tlll' play l)('gins, thn couple rnceives a snrics orvisi­Lors lo its 1ww ho11w who soon become l!(1dda's unsus­1wcting play-things. Throughout the production, she contimws to wPave lhat web of deceit until she and all of tlw charact1ffs am trapped. 
"V\fp tricd to caplllrn the web-like aspect of IIedda's world." said dirnctor Siiri Scott of' tho set. "The interior of lwr lwnw is madn or bars. not ma!, solid walls. We wantPd to show that if' she had lo, she could break through. but she donsn't think she can." 
Whih\ this is llw fourth student production Scott has dirPclPd, it is tlw first tinw shP has strayed from the original intm1t or the playwright. 
"Tlui play is very verlml, so wn tried to give it addi­lional aspPcts of beauty," slw said. Th<! set is decorated with an eclectic collection of art borrowed from the Snito Museum, and there is careful consideration given Lo Lim soft, classical music uf the play's intermissions. Scott sought to p(m;onalize the production through its costumes as well. 
"llrdda's costumes are always such a contrast b1)causc wn want her to stand out in every scene," said Scott. "She is the spider or her web, and she has to attract people." 
In tlw play's op1!ning scene, Hedda wears an emerald grmm, Oriental silk robn over whitn silk pajamas. It is a sharp, vibrant contrast lo the morn muted, everyday Lum of tlrn century garb worn by tlrn other characters. This was a deliberate contrast developed by Rick Donnnlly, tlrn costume designer for "Hedda Cabler." 
Box OFFICE 

"Ibsen wrote the play to be set in the late 1 R00s. But parts," said actress Lisa Fabrega, a Notre Dame junior. we altered it to be set in 191l, right before World War I, "Everyone really cares about thP-ir characters, and they because it was a time when fashion was becoming more try to take those characters further and further." casual," said Donnelly. "We wanted Hedda to be able to Students like senior .John Sample, a science, physics lounge rather than be confined by fashion that would be and math major, plays Eliert Lovborg, a rncovnring more strict. It was morn fitting with her character." alcoholic whom Hedda entices into drinking again. I le 
The play's actors wear fashions from collections of and other nrnmhers of the cast bring unique perspec­20th Century Fox and Warner Brothers Studios. tives to the characters they portray. "Seventy-live percent of the costumes are authentic vin­"They accuse me of trying to make it 'The Elinrl tage garment.-; used in the film 'Titanic.' The costumes Lovborg Show.' Bul it's just that I love my character," capture the essence of the time period, chosen from the said Sample. "I think he's a passionate, screwed up fashions of 19 l2 to fit each individual character," said character who lives life on the brink. And looking at him .... Donnelly. we can see that maybe living on the brink is not the best 
The cast or Hedda Gabler is "a diverse group of kids, way. He's got something to teach someone like me, or who are not nocessarily theatre majors," said Scott. anyone at Notre Dame who's ever lost control with alco­"It is a wonderful cast, all very serious about their hol." 

Notre Dame senior Louise Edwards stars as title character Hedda Gabler in Notre Dame's first theater production of 1999-2000. 
-
el'M


"Double Jeopardy" 
L-J 

once again topped the box office, taking in $17 million in its Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales second week. The weekends new films 
1. Double Jeopardy $ 17 million $ 4 7 .2 million 
scattered throughout 
2. Three Kings $ 15.8 million $ 15.8 million 
the top 10, with "Three Kings" debut-3. American Beauty $ 8.2 million $ 18.4 million 
ing at No. 2. 4. Blue Streak $ 8 million $ 47.7 million Meanwhile, 
5. The Sixth Sense $ 7 million $ 234.5 million
"American Beauty" moved up to No. 3 6. Drive Me Crazy $ 6.8 million $ 6.8 million 
from No. 5 last week, 7. For Love of the Game $ 3.5 million $ 28.4 million 
after opening nation--­
8. The Adventures of $ 3.2 million $ 3.2 million
wide. 
Elmo in Grouchland $ 3.1 million $ 3.1 million 
Photo courtesy of Paramount 
Pictures 9. Mystery, Alaska $ 2.4 million $ 44. 3 million 
10. Stigmata 
... 

Source: Yahoo 


MOVIE REVIEWS 


By JOHN CRAWFORD Scene Movie Critic 
What is wrong with sports movies nowadays'? 
Rccer;tly, Kevin Costner left behind postmen and $175 million water flicks and returned to what he does best: base­ball movies. Unfortunately, "For the Love of Game" found Costner still in full roman­tic, "l\1essage in a Bottle"-mode. Instead of baseball, viewers get baseball and two hours of mushy, bad romance fitting for a Jackie Collins novel. 
Now there is "Mvsterv, Alaska," a movie about hockey, two rocky marriages, a strained father-son relationship, several melodramatic court­
room scenes, an old "Mystery, Alaska" son (Scott Grimes). 
flame returning to his A corporate giant high school sweet-also threatens to heart, a shooting and come to town, but its a commentary against representative corporate America. (Michael McKean, 
What's going on out offive shamrocks probably best known here? Can't a sports for playing Lenny on movie just be about, "Laverne and well, sports'? Director: Jay Roach Shirley") is shot by 
Perhaps "Jerry Starring: Russell Crowe, Burt the proprietor of the 
Maguire" is to blame local general store in 
for this mess. The Reynolds, Hank Azaria and Mary 
a plot line that is Hockey League. It's a classic David versus Goliath showdm,.,,11. 
So far so good, right'? 
But then everything disintegrates into a number of unnecessary and badly-script­ed subplots. The team's captain (played by Crowe). in the cliched role of the aging athlete, is jealous of his wife (Mary McCormack), who seems infatuated with a former high school boyfriend (Hank Azarial who has returned to the small town. 
The town mayor (Colm Meaney) finds out his wife (Lolita Davidovich) is having an affair, though the two eventually kiss and make up. The team's coach (Reynolds). who spends much of the movie brooding, must patch things up 
with his estranged 
Tom Cruise hit had McCormack something for every­one, successfully blending romance and sports into one movie. Guys could dig the football scenes. Women could get teary-eyed about a sin­gle mother and her cute kid. In a sense, it was the greatest date movie ever made. 
-
In its wake, however, have come several unimpressive sports films. the most recent of which is "Mystery, Alaska." 
The new fum, starring an excellent but wasted ensemble cast that includes Russell Crowe and Burt Reynolds, is set in a small town where hockey is life. Against a backdrop of mountains, sky and snow, it is a place where children grow up with hockey sticks and everything stops for the weekly Saturday game. 
Baked potatoes aren't just eaten, but used to mark out plays and to warm boots before playing outside in the cold. Couples have sex while watching games on televi­sion. and one character even explains he likes to play hockey and fornicate because they're the best two things to do in cold 
. weather. 
The film gets started when a magazine article spotligl1ts the town's hockey mania, and the New York Rangers decide to play the local team in an exhibition game. Suddenly, the ragtag Mystery team, a motley crew composed of a grocer, a deliveryman, the town sheriff and a dim­witted high school kid, is pitted against the big, bad professionals of the National 
introduced and quickly forgotten. Did someone forget about the hockey game? 
Perhaps this hodgepodge of a movie is the result of the weird contrast of talents behind the lens. Jay Roach, who directed both "Austin Powers" movies, serves as director. Meanwhile, it's producer and co­writer is David Kelley, the force behind a number of current popular television dra­mas, including "Ally McBeal," "Chicago Hope" and "The Practice." It is perhaps Kelley's infatuation with the law, so evi­dent in his television shows, that results in "Mystery" having several unrealistic and melodramatic courtroom scenes that turn this hockey movie, for a brief time, into an episode of "Perry Mason." 
The film is not without some bright spots. One highlight is a cameo by Mike Myers, playing a TV commentator, in a role that generates almost as many laughs in just five minutes as his flat "Austin Powers" sequel. 
The end also has a strange surreal feel­ing as Little Richard shows up, complete with makeup and a robe, to sing the national anthem before the big game. 
Unfortunately, Richards is a little too late to help this plodding mess of a movie. If you're looking for an uplifting tale of an underdog facing adversity that's free of unwanted courtroom melodrama, falling­apart romances and estranged father-son relationships, rent "Rocky" instead. 
By BILL FUSZ Scene Movie Critic 
Already billed as one of the best films of the year, even a masterpiece, "Three Kings" has had a good deal of hype to live up to with its arrival on the big screen this past weekend. Combining superb acting, excellent cinematography and great comedic dialogue, "Three Kings" delivers on the promise of a unique and entertaining movie experience. 
The film begins shortly after the abrupt end of the Gulf War, with soldiers likn Troy Barlow (Mark Wahlberg, "BoogiP Nights") asking, "Are we still shooting people?" For Barlow as well as his red­neck groupie Private 
Conrad Vig (Spike "Three Kings" Republican Guard Jonze) and Chief Elgin takes issue with the (Ice Cube, "Player's theft of Sadaam's Club," "Friday"), the gold however, and war has been spent the escape is botched passing time in camp when its nerve gas and the only action out of five shamrocks and mines block the has been viewed route and allow for 
through the sanitizing the capture of Troy window of television. Director: Jay Roach Barlow. They are not the As the film pro­
Starring: George Clooney, Ice 

only ones who are gresses, Gates, Chief 
getting restless. The Cube and Mark Wahlberg and Vig try to find a 
end of the war finds Major Archie Gates, Special Forces (George Clooney, "Out of Sight") stuck babysitting a network correspondent. Two weeks from retirement, Gates is cyn­ical about the technical sterility of the war, and questioning the reason the U.S. is involved at all. 
Also in the mix, reporter and five-time Emmy runner-up Adriana Cruz (Nora Dunn, "Drop Dead Gorgeous") is tired of covering the same old stories about post­war troop celebrations and oil-field fires. 
Everyone's lust for action is soon appeased when the latest group of Iraqi soldiers to surrender are processed. As they search one of the soldiers, Barlow and his friends find a map located "where the sun don't shine," a map of secret Iraqi bunkers where stolen Kuwaiti gold is being stashed. 
When he receives word through the grapevine of the discovery, Major Gates is quick to find the three reservists and sug­gest a roadtrip: Borrow a humvee, get the gold, be back before lunch and no one will notice they even left. "Sadaam stole it from the Kuwaitis and I have no problem with stealing it from Sadaam," Gates said. Better yet, they will never have to worry about their day jobs again. 
From the start though, things begin to go wrong with the scheme. When they arrive in the village where the bunker is, they find a state of rebellion where American-incited rebels fight the Iraqi Republican Guard while the peace accords mandate U.S. troops to stand by. 
All is well as the Americans successful­ly load the humvne with more than $23 million in gold with the help of Iraqi troops and prepare to return. Before tlrny leave however, they witnP.ss the brutal execution of a woman in front of lwr daughter and husband, and the plan changes irrevocably, inciting one of the most memorable firefights in rncent movie history. While few shots are fired, each one is important and every bullet counts. 
In the aftermath of the illicit shooting of Iraqi troops, Gates decides that there is no alternative but to take as many rnbnls as possible and escape into the desert 
with the gold. The 
way to rescue Barlow, keep the gold and help the refugees illegally get safe passage across the border. All the while, Adriana Cruz is hot on the trail of her big scoop as the Americans find themselves face-to-face with the ethical complexities of a situa­tion that was supposed to have "a clear moral imperative." Stuck between Iraq and a hard place, the would-be thieves find it increasingly difficult to obey their orders to remain aloof from Iraq's domestic conflict. 
George Clooney finally comes into his own playing the complex Archie Gates. Moved first by necessity and then trying to disguise his humanitarian motives as expedient for getting the gold, Gates is another in the line of mercenaries turned heroes such as Rick Hlaine in "Casablanca" and Rhett Rutler in "Gone With the Wind." lee Cube and Mark Wahlberg also turn in great perfor­mances as reservists who have to deal with the alien ethical complexities of war. Jonze's redneck, however, is more annoying than not, yet can occasionally inspire sympathy with his ignorance. 
"Three Kings" is not without faults, periodically tending towards preachiness in an effort to critique U.S. foreign policy. But the human drama and comedy shine through, thanks in part to its incredibly original style. "Three Kings" well deserves its "best so far" description, if not quite a masterpiece distinction. 
-------------------· ­

Thursday, October 7, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL DIVISIONAL PLAYOFFS 
-

Indians beat Red Sox, end postseason jinx 
As,oda1ed Pres, 
CLEVELAND 

ThP Indians' (,amc 1 postsnason jinx ended as soon as !'!'Ciro Marlirrnz left the gamn. 
Travis Fryman's HB! single with une­out in Llw bouom of Urn ninth inning gavn Cl11v1dand a -~-2 win over the Boston n,~d Sox, who may have lost their arn \lartilwz for the rr.rnaind,~r of thr AL playoffs. 
Tlw Indians had lost eight straight sPriPs oponing gamr\S, dating hack to tlw division scrim; against Boston in 1995 lwf'orP l•ryman's cluti.:h bases-loaded basP hit. · 
Marlirrnz. baseball's most dominant. pitclwr this snason, pullnd a back m11s­1·l1• all(! had to lna\·n thn gamn af'tnr the fourth inning. lie is listed as day-to-day ancl Boston rnanugnr Jimy 
Williams :-;aid the right-hander would lw n•-rxamirwd by doctors on Thursday. 
"W1• got a brnak with Pndro gntting hurt," suid 1:ry111a11, who spent most of thn sraso11 on tlw disablNI list wi1 h a snrious ktrnn injury. 
"Anytimn you face l'odrn, hn's tough. llr\'S tlw b1\Sl pitcher I twrir f'acrd. You look up tlwrn in the sixth inning and you don't s1\1! him out llu1n), it gives you a little pick-me-up." 
Thr• llPcl Sox, who had counted on Martirrnz giving them the lead in the series, will turn to Bret Saberhagen in Canw 2 Thursday against Cleveland's Charlns Nagy. 
Indians starter Bartolo Colon struck out a s1!aso11-high I I in eight innings, and Paul Shuey picked up thr. win with a perfect ninth. 
Jim Thome hit a game-tying two­run homer off Derek Lowe in the sixth for the Indians, who also got spectacular defensive plays from David Justice, Hoberto Alomar and Omar Vizquel. 
Nomar Garciaparra homered for the Hed Sox, who despite dominat­ing the regular-season series against Cleveland have now lost four straight playoff games to the Indians. 
Diamondbacks 7, Mets 1 
Steve Finley knocked in five runs -tying the National Lfiague Division Series record for RBI in a game -and Todd Stottlemyre allowed one run in 6 2/3 innings, as the Arizona Diamondbacks defeated Urn New York Mets, 7-1, in game two of tlwir best-of-five S<)ries at Bank One Ballpark. 
With the win, Arizona evens the series at a game apiece, with game three scheduled for Friday in New York. 
Stottlcmyre ( 1-0 J allowed one run and four hits in 6 1/3 innings. lie also struck out six and walked five. It was the third career post-season win for the righthandcr, who is now 6-1 lifetime against the Mets. 
New York opened the scoring in the third inning. Rickey Henderson scored on a groundnut off the bat of John Olerud. 
Arizona answered with a three-spot in the bottom of the third. New York had a chance to inch closer 

in the top of the fourth. Robin Ventura walked and Darryl Hamilton reached base as Bell committed a fielding error to put runners on first and second. 
However, Ventura wandered too far off second base and was picked off by catcher Kelly Stinnett, and Roger 
.... 
Cedeno grounded into a double play to end the inning. 
Arizona padded its lead in the fifth, scoring Bell and Williams to put the Diamondbacks on top 5-1. 
Arizona put two more runs on the scoreboard in the seventh. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
travel FREE!!Top campus  http://mmmrentals.homepage.c  Awesome  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL  SALE. CALL X3941 OR X1208  
LOST & FOUND  reps can earn a Free Trip & over $10,000!Choose Cancun,  om/ 232-2595  Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  TICKETS 277-6619  2 ARIZONA GA'S FOR SALE.  
Jamaica or Nassau!  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  Florida $129!springbreaktrav­ FOR SALE ASU tix.  CALL KRISTEN@  
FOUND:  Book Trips On-Line.  Bed and Breakfast Inn has  el.com  FACE VALUE  413-567-0841.  
CHANGE PURSE ON SMC  Log In and win FREE stuff.  space available for  1-800-678-6386  AM -232-2378  
CAMPUS ON MONDAY, 10/4.  Sign Up Now On Line!  football/parent wknds. 5  PM -288-2726  2 ASU GA for sale, face value.  
CALL 631-5873 TO IDENTIFY.  www.StudentCity.com or  Rooms with private baths, $80­ FOR SALE  716-667-6665.  
800/293-1443  $115, Middleb1..1ry, 30 miles  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  ND football tix for sale.  
Silver and Gold Crucifix  from campus. Toll Road Exit  CALL 271-9412  AM -232-2378  FOR SALE ND FOOTBALL  
found between Flanner and  · Browse icpt.com for  #107, 1-800-418-9487.  PM -288-2726  TICKETS. ASU $47.50 ea.  
Fire Station.  Springbreak "2000". ALL des­ FOR SALE  CALL 289-8048 .  
Call 1-5151 to claim.  tinations offered. Trip  LOADED 6 Bedrm '00-01 yr.  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  
Participants, Student Orgs &  273-0482 / 234-3831  CALL 271-9412  GAMES.2726551  SELLING 2 GA'S TO AZ &  
Campus Sales Reps wanted.  USC.  
WANTED  Fabulous parties.hotels &  Beautiful Home. 5 bedrooms,  Phone Cards, 669 min/$20  BUYING and SELLING N D  243-2770.  
prices.Call Inter-Campus 800­ two bathrooms. Brand new  243-9361 or 258-4805  FOOTBALL TICKETS.  
STUDENT OPENINGS  327-6013  stove, refrigerator, dishwasher, washer and dryer. Alarm.  Beautiful brass bed.queen  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289­8048  PERSONAL  
5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around  Nude Mate models needed for  Attached garage. Fenced  size.with orthopedic mattress  
classes.  student Art film.  yard. Immaculate condition.  set and deluxe  FOR SALE  
Scholarships avail.  Mere: 247-1810  675.0776  frame.New.never used.still in  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual  
www.workforstudents.com/lN  plastic.$235 219-862-2082  CALL 271-9412  students of ND/SMC meeting  
282-2357  Free One Bedroom Apartment  8 bedroom house. 2 baths.  each Thurs. For info call:  
in Historic Home 1.5 miles  Completely renovated. ND  MAC 520 Powerbook-Y2K  SPRING BREAK 2000  (877)631-6OUT  
DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL  from Campus.  Ave. 675.0776  compliant-$350. Stylewriter  ''THE MILLENIUM"  
YEAR! $1200 TO $2000  A family with three children  printer $75. Both seldom  A NEW DECADE. ..NCE IN  High-Speed Copies,  
THIS MONTH. Part time 4 to 6  seeks fun.energetic.outstand­ 5/6 BDRM HOMES."00-01YR  used. 287-7928  TRAVEL.FREE TRIPS.FREE  Color Copies, Binding,  
hours per week. Call 24 hrs  ing student or graduate to live  272-6551  MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN ,F  Fax Service, R~sum~s.  
(219) 239-6709  in charming apartment for FREE in exchange for mutually  6BDRM$150 person.272-6306  Computer parts. Computer service.  LORIDA,BARBADOS,BAHAM AS.SIGN UP BY NOV. 5 FOR  Business Cards, Laminating, & a whole lot more  ...  
SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT  agreed upon babysitting  Fast, friendly, cheap.  2 FREE TRIPS AND FREE  at  
GROUPS- responsibilities that include  Sublet: Roomy one bedroom  220-7633 220-7734.  MEALS!  THE COPY SHOP  
Earn $1000-2000 with easy  some evenings.overnights.as  Campus View apartment:  www.247solution.com  1800-426-771 0  Lafortune Student Center  
CIS Fund event.No sales  well as travel.Send cover let­ $385.00 monthly. Call Stacy at  WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.C  Phone 631-COPY  
required.Fund Rasier days are  ter,resurne and references to  Campus View or John Hill at  85 OLDS CUTLASS GOOD  OM  Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  
filling up, so call today.Contact  Nanny Search,P.O.Box  683-5699 days; 616/782-3314.  LOCAL  
Joe @ 1-888-522-4350.  652,Notre Dame,IN 46556.  TRANSPORTATION  WANTED:USCTIX  It's live! It's rock & roll!  
3 BDRM DUPLEX REMOD­ $750080  247-1659  Come see  
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes  TUTORS needed for college &  ELED 501 EDDY ST.  675-9735  
to adopt. Will provide a lifet1me  high school students in ·  1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.  ND MOM NEEDS 11 ARIZ.  Art  
of iaughter,love,devotion and  Algebra & Intermediate  APPLIANCES, W/D 273-B332.  89 Plymouth, Sundance  ST ATE GA'S. PLEASE CALL  &  
opportunities.  Algebra. Also need tutors for  Milage 96 k, excelent  1-800-447-1200, THEN  the Artichokes  
800·484-4699 code 0019  general help/review in  ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOT·  conditions, $1650 or best  PRESS 2-2242. CALL WILL  
TO OUR 4 AM INQUIRER  Eng.,Sociology, Psychology.  BALL WEEKENDS 2773097  offer. 277-3254  BE RETURNED ASAP.  This Friday, 10pm  
ALL INFO KEPT IN TOTAL  Call Linda at 272-8235 or  at Heartland  
CONFIDENCE. PLEASE CALL  email-lwaelchli@datacruz.com  NICE FURNISHED HOMES  Need sets of two or four tickets  
BACK ANYTIME. OUR PRAYERS ARE WITH YOU.  FOR RENT  FOR NOW OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  TICKETS  for Navy or USC games. Call Brian at 634-3346.  CHILD CARE OPENINGS IN MY HOME. NEAR ND. 233-2704.  - 
FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!!  WANTED: USC TICKETS  FOR SALE ASU TIX.  
SPRING BREAK 2000  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRI­ FOR SALE  CALL CHUK 634-4785  271-9331  To the woman who returned  
VATE HOME FOR ND-SMC  my lost purse Tues in OShag  
StudentCily.com is looking for  EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO  Spring Break  WANTED NOTRE DAME  For SALE 2 tixs all games 272­ THANK YOU for being so  
Highly Motivated Students to  CAMPUS. 243-0658.  SpecialslBahamas Party  FOOTBALL TICKETS  6306  kind and honest! AJH  
promote Spring Break 2000!  Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  271-1526  
Organize a small group and  HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Meals!  2 STUD. TICKET BKL TS 4  Congratulations, Diana!  

---~ w page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 7, 1999 
NATIONAL LEAGUE DIVISIONAL PLAYOFFS 
-
Millwood pitches one-hitter in Braves win over Astros 
Associated Press 
ATL\NTA 

Kevin Millwood is no longer an afterthought to Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine and John Smoltz. After Wednesdav, he deserves to .be mentioned·right along with them. 
Pitching one of the grnatrst postseason games in baseball history, :\Iillwood threw a one­hitter -facing only two batters above the minimum -'--to give the Atlanta Braves a critical 5-1 victory over the Houston Astros, evening the first-round· series at one game apiece. 
Millwood, pitching in the post­season fur the first time, allowed a second-inning homer to Ken Caminiti but that was all. It was the first complete-game one-hitter in the postseason in 32 years. 
"We needed a big win today," the 24-year-old Millwood said. "It was probably the biggest ever." 
No kidding. 

"Everything was working," he said. "My fastball was good. My curveball was good. My slider was good." 
Millwood. 18-7 during the regular season, didn't pitch at all the last two postseasons while the Braves were knocked out in the ;\JL championship 
series -even though he won 17 games in 1998. 
The Braves couldn't pass him by this year. Millwood stepped up to become the Braves most consistent starter while Maddux, Glavine and Smoltz ­with seven Cy Youngs among them -went through assorted struggles. 
··1 slept pretty good last night." Millwood said. "I thought it was going to be kind of tough to get to sleep. but I think some of tho nervous oncr­gy I worked up during the day kind of wore me out. I slept good." 
And pitched even better, throwing the first complete game one-hitter in the postsea­son since Game 2 of the 1967 World Series. Boston's Jim Lonborg beat the St. Louis Cardinals 5-0. allowing a double to Julian Javier with two outs in the eighth. 
Tom Glavine and Mark Wohlers combined on a one-hit­ter for the. Braves against Cleveland in Game 6 of the 1995 World Series. The were two other combined one-hitters in LCS play. 
"A stronger game has not been pitched against us all year long," Houston manager Larry Dierker said. "We really only hit two balls hard the whole game." 
STUDYIN 
OXFORD 
Live with British students in the very center as a Registered Visiting Student of a medieval college with university priviledges. 
Summer and graduate study 
Washington International Studies Council 
214 Massachusetts Avenue, N. E. Washington, D.C. 2000 Phone Number: (202) 547-3275 Free Telephone: (800) 323-WISC Facimile: (202) 547-1470 Email: wisc@erols.com www.studyabroad.com/wisc 
>ALL AGES WELCO 

--DANCING IS YOUR /CONN ON THUR IS YOUR PLACE! 
rey "The Hitman" H . · · .aBC& music every: 

With the Braves desperate for a victory after losing the first game 6-1 Tuesday, Millwood retired 15 batters in a row after Caminiti's homer. 
The streak was broken when third baseman Chipper Jones booted a grounder with one out in the seventh, but the error didn't bother his pitcher. 
Millwood got the next two bat­ters on grounders. The Braves broke open a 2-1 game with three runs in the bottom half' on Brian Jordan's sacrifice fly and run-scoring singles by Ryan Klesko and Andruw .Jones. 
The best-of-5 series shifts to the Astrodome, where the next two games will be played Friday and Saturday. If a fifth game is needed, it would be at Turner Field on Sunday. 
"It gives us confidence going into Houston," Jordan said. "I mean, momentum has switched." 
Jordan and Klesko flip­flopped in the batting order. a move that paid off with two RBIs from Jordan, hitting fourth instead offifth. 
Klesko. dropped from the cleanup spot, had three hits, scored twice and drove in a run. 
But everyone was overshad­owed by Millwood, who llirtcd with a no-hitter s1weral times during the regular season, allowing only two hits in four separate starts. 
He went at least six innings in every start after June 28. Overall, Millwood finished sec­ond in the NL to Arizona's Randy Johnson with a 2.68 EHA and led the majors by allowing 
a .202 average to hitters. 
"He is a dominant pitcher," Jordan said. "We needed a big game from our pitcher and he came up with a big game for us.'' 
The Braves got to Houston starter .Jose Lima in the first inning, with Gerald Williams scoring on Jordan's two-out, broken-bat single. Lima might have been flustered by a visit from third-base umpire Rruce Froemming before the very first pitch. 
Froemming noticed a stain on the right hip of Lima's uniform 
and walked over to check it out. · The umpire appeared to touch the spot with a finger before 
allowing Lima to proceed. 
"They have been checking 
the side of my pants all year." 
said Lima, who said the stain 
was simply dirt. "I don't have to 
cheat to win ball games." 
Lima, 21-10 during the regu­
lar season but 0-2 against the 
Braves, went 6 2-:~ innings, 
allowing four runs and nine 
hits. 
Caminiti, who hit a threP-run 
homer in the ninth inning 
Tuesday to seal Houston's victo­
ry, burned the Braves again in 
the second inning. On a 1-2 
pitch, Millwood tried to sneak a 
fastball over the inside corner, 
and it wound up in the right­
field seats. 
That would be his only mis­
take. 
Eddie Perez's sacrifice l1y in 
the sixth broke a 1-1 tie. 
Andruw Jones had the key hit in 
the inning, a double that broke 
his 0-for-20 slump in division 
series play. It was Atlanta's first 
extra-base hit of this series. 


GOT A WORD FOR OUR TASTY NEW CHICKEN CLUB SANDWICH· CRAVEABLE. 
(Ir's NOT A REAL WORD, BUT WE LIKE IT.) 



THE TASTY (HICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
Doors open at 9:0 One bite of the delicious Chicken Club, and you'll always crave the flavor of its all-white-meat chicken 
Free admission before · · ·· 

topped with crispy bacon. fresh lettuce and tomato and mayonnaise. And that's no problem, because
:po 

now this ultra-satisfying sandwich is here to stay at BURGER KING" So come on in and indulge your craving 

The Ht.ddle • Lafortune Student Center 
IT JUST TASTES BETTER~ 
www burgerking corn 
PARTICIPATION MAY VARY 


Thursday, October 7, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
-


When: Thursday, Oct. 7th Time: 6:00-8:00 
for nly 


Chorney 
continued from page 24 
coaches, standing with their helmets on, were looking for a tackle. 
As SCHIil as the first whistle blew, the Keenan fans started to ridicultl 0'Neil.I in an effort to distract this superpower and win the mental battle. But the O'Neill players would answer back. 
After a quick Keenan touch­down, O'Nnill unveiled its nearly unstoppable offense, highlightPd by its socrnt play. On the first play, O'Ncill 
A perfect n1eeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and S;1tu1d:ty I)1ri11f 
N .D. Home Football Weekends. 
Everyone Welcome 
Grilled Rur2ers. Brats. and Other Specialties Cold Beverages & Spirits hO" Screen TV's Fully Enclosed Tent 
ext to the N.D. Bookstore. 
219-631-2000 
attempted to unveil this secret play, but unfortunately fum­bled the snap. In fact, every time O'Neill tried to unveil its secret play, the snap was fum­bled. The half soon ended with Keenan up by a mere 13 points. One could sense that O'Neill would come out of halftime fighting. 
Instead though, it was the Keenan fans who appeared to come out fighting. 
They were ruthless, relent­less and occasionally down­right rude. What's more, it appeared that their trash talk­ing had begun to gel to the O'Neill offensive machine and stalled it. Screams of, "You're so bad!" were met with retorts or, "Tell us something we don't know." When one espe­cially irritating fan shouted out, "Did your dorm even have tryouts?" He was startled to hear the response, "No, and we haven't had practice either'" 
The O'Neill players knew this to be the unfortunate truth. 
The game proceeded uneventfully until around mid­way through the second half when O'Neill engineered a 62­yard drive (highlighted by four 15-yard penalties) to thH Keenan 15-yard line. 
O'Neill. sensing pay dirt for the first time in two years, was forced with a difficult decision. Half of the team, still clinging to the hope of scoring a touchdown wanted to throw the ball. The other half, cling­ing to reality wanted to settle and attempt a field goal on first down to ensure points. 
They went for six, choosing to try their trick play again, and subsequently fumbling. The clock eventually expired and Keenan ended the game with thirteen more points than O'Neill. It could be argued. however, that O'Neill won the game. 
They left the field with smiles on their faces. They had held the mighty Knights to 13 points including shutting them out in the second half. They had made improve­ments, not throwing any interceptions (OK, so they only got four passes off). They had left the field with only one significant injury. 
But the primary reason that one could consider O'Neill tho 
Recycle The Observer 
victor was that its players and fans, or rather fan, under­stood the meaning of inter­hall sport.-,. They understood that they were no longer play­ing high school football and had given up their dreams to play major college football and had fun. 
Only after considerahle abuse did they stoop to the level of the Keenan fans. They hadn't practiced and thus hadn't invested any more time than the fun time spent with their friends at the games. Their coach never yetred at them, scowled at them, or benched them. 
O'Neill will be extremely lucky to win a game this year. In fact, they'll be lucky to score. Keenan, on the other hand, is well on its way to winning another champi­onship. 
However, this inter-hall player is proud to be part. of the O'Neill team. Because sometimes, when you lose, you still can win. 


Also .... come by Rm. 216LaFun to pick up your Senior Class Directory! 
Brought to you by the Class of 2000 Council 


The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 7, 1999 
r­
1 
! 
r ­
I I I 
I 
I 
l t 
l I 
r 
f 
t 
.
I 
I 
page 18 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
With the intensity of last sea­son's games, Poulin believes this match-up is fast becoming Notre Dame's greatest rivalry. 
"With the proximity of the two schools and the fact that we compete in so many different sports, f think it is the rivalry for us, Both teams play very aggrcs­sive offensively. and with both teams built for speed, it's going to be very exciting hockey." 
Head to head 
Michigan starts the season the odds-on favorite fur the CCHA title, holding first place in the conference coaches' p,reseason poll. The team returns many vet­erans from last soa~on, including last year's leading scorer and CCHA rookie of the year, Mike Comrie, 
"They're very skilled up front," Poulin said about the Wolverines. "There's no question. They've had a little bit of adjustment on defense, though. since they've lost a couple of players. Rut up front, they have as much fire­power as anyone in the country does. You don't want to get into a shootout with them." 
But the Irish return 18 of 24 Jetterwinners from last season. The squad is headed by senior captain Ben Simon, picked by many to be the CCHA player of the year this season. Simon totaled 18 goals and 24 assists in his junior year. 
Still, the loss of four players to graduation, including starting goalie Forrest Karr, leave some holes to be replaced. Three of those players -Brian Urick, Benoit Cotnoir and Dhadphale ­scored more than 40 percent of Notre Dame's goals last season. 
"They're four very key play­ers," Poulin remarked. "They meant a lot to this program, and did a lot for the elevation of it. You don't replace a player such as Brian Urick; other players have to pick up the pieces, and 
I'm encouraged by our depth." 
That depth will prove fairly important this season. as the Irish return eight players with more than 10 points each last season. Nine of the current Irish forwards this season have NHL draft status or experience with national programs. 
Defensively. the trio of Nathan Borega, Fraser and Sean Molina lead a veteran contingent that includes at least five seniors that have played a combined 401 , career games. 
Rookies 

In addition to the current line­up, the Irish have gained one of the top freshman classes in the nation, including four former members of the USA Developmental Program and the top goaltender of the United States Hockey League last sea­son. 
Two new members of the coaching staff aL-,o enter the Irish roster this season. John Micheletto, who spent three sea­son as top assistant coach at Onion College, will share prima­ry assistant coaching duties with seven-year assistant Andy Slaggert. Irish fans may remem­ber the other new face, volunteer coach Greg Louder. A goaltender for the Irish from 1990-94, Louder currently is enrolled in the Notre Dame MBA program and is working the Irish goalies. 
"He's been a great addition since he joined us in July," Poulin said." Greg's one of the top goalies to go through a Notre Dame program. It's a perfect fit, having him on board." 
More competition 

In addition to the new faces on the coaching staff, a new team has joined up in the CCHA. 

"Consider this an open invitation to discuss your insurance needs in my new office." 
Being in good hands is the only place to be~" 
Nebraska Omaha hac; entered as a 12th team, prompting a change in conforimce alignment. The CCHA now consists of three "clusters," each consisting of four teams. This season. the Irish will compete with UNO, Alaska­Fairbanks and Michigan State. 
While the addition of a new team may change future Irish schedules, it won't affect the goals the team has set for itself. 
"We want to take the next step," Poulin said. "And the next step for us is the CCHA Tournament in Joe Louis Arena. From there, history says you have a terrific chance of the NCMbid." 
For Fraser, however, the 
stakes are set even higher. 
"We have a pyramid of goals posted on our locker room wall," he said. "Ultimately, our goal is to win a national championship, but it's the little things, the foun­dation, that have lo get done first. Every single game, even the practice games, it all adds up to achieving those goals." 
Sai.1.1.t Mais Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 
Th& Nation's Prem,er Cathalic Womot'l's Col/ugo 
27TH ANNUAL 

LO,NDON SUMMER PRO,GRAM 
MAY 24TH -rrJNE 19TH, 2000 
Informational Meeting 6:00-7:00 p.m., Tuesday, October 12 Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center Saint Mary's College 
Travels in_ I}eiand, Scotland, England and France 

COurses offered in History, Art, Sociology. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4866 


Spectrum Sports Sale 
·•officially Licensed" 


Notre Dame Products 
At 
Logan Center 

-Super Special­**All ND T-Shirts $9.95 (Reg. $24.95) With Purchase** 
Special

.Other Football Weekend Specials Was Select ND Sweatshirts ............................................................................................ $49,95 $24.95 Champion ND Lightweight Jacket .................................................... ,$59. 95 $24-95 Selected ND Hats........................................................,, ....................................,...... $24.95 $ 9.95 ND Rain Ponchos............ ............................. .. .. ....... .. .. .................................... $1 9.95 $14.95 
(Other Rain Gear Available) -Check Out the Great Selection of Notre Dame Products at the Logan Center-
Friday Oct. 1st, 1:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Saturday Oct. 2nd, 8:00 a.m. until 1 :30 p.m. 
''Logan Center located south of the stadium at the corner of Eddy and Juniper *Free gifts to first 50 purchases-compliments of Spectrum Sports (309-786-9318) 
1999-2000 Season 

Notre Dame Film,Television, 
and Theatre Presents 

.,. 
Hedda Gabler 
by 

flenrik Ibsen 
,.. 

Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, October 6 7:30 p.m. Thursday, October 7 7:30 p.m. Friday, October 8 7:30p.m. Saturday, October 9 7:30 p.m. Sunday October lO 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved seats $9 
Seniors $8 
All Student~ $6 
Tickets are available ,~ Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office

L:~:~d=i~•-=call631-8128 . 
Thursday, Ocroher 7, 1999 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Calendar of Events 
Freshman Retreat #25 (Nov. 5-6) Sign-Up 
Continuing through Nov. 1, 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall. Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Dillon, Howard, Keough, Lyons, McG!inn, Pasquerilla West, and Sorin 
ND Encounter Retreat #58 (Nov. 5-7) Sign-Up Monday-Friday, October 4-8, 103 Hesburgh Library 
Evening Reflection on the Rosary in Honor of Our Lady of the Rosary 
Thursday, Oct. 7, 6:45-7:30 prn, Grotto Fr. John Herman, c.s.c. wilt give the reflection and lead the praying of the Rosary along with Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament. 
Emmaus Leadership Training 
Monday, October 11, 6:00-8:00 pm, W9.lsh Hall Chapel Contact Clare Sullivan at 631-5242 with any questions 
An Evening with Fr. Hesburg 
Monday, October 11, 7:30 pm. Keenan/Stanford Chapel Some Reflections on Latin American and Latino Culture 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, October 12, 7:00 pm, Badin Hall Chapel· Walsh Hall Chapel A Spirit-filled, student-led power half ho.ur. of prayer and muic for students of all Christian faith traditions. 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, October 13, 8:00 pm Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesday, October 13, 10:00-10:30 pm, Walsh Hall Chapel A spirit-filled, student-led power half hour of pr1:.tyer.and music for student of all Christian falth traditions, 
Twenty-eighth Sunday In Ordinary Time 
Weekend Preslders 
at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Saturday, October 9 Mass 
30 min. after the game Rev. Thomas G. Streit, C.S.C. 
Sunday, October 1.0 Mass 
8:00 a.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Thomas G. Streit, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas G. Streit, C.S.C. 
Vespers Sunday, September 19 
7:15 p.m. 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
STEPAN CENTER 
Saturday, October 2 Mass 
45 min. after the game . Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Isaiah 25:6-10a  
2nd Reading  Philippians 4:12-14, 19-20  
Gospel  Matthew 22: 1-14  

Hey, You Seniors: It's Not Over Yet! 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. [Lies.4@nd.edu] 
This missive, though quite obviously directed to our seniors, welcomes the interest of all who have read thus far. It is intended to appeal primarily, however, to those whose days among us are numbered, but, please God, has something to say to us all. During each mid-semester break, we tend to take stock and marvel at how quickly the semester has gone. I have little doubt that most of you seniors are gasping in horror at the speed with which these days, not only this semester but throughout your years here, have passed. My inten­tion is to assure you, as the title of this article portends, that it's not over yet! 
I've rarely been as moved by an Observer article as I was by the one by Jeff Beam in yesterday's "Inside Column." He speaks far better than I will here about the importance of making the most of our time and our relationships, and of reordering our priorities if necessary. As for you seniors, there is more time remaining than you think as long as you choose to use it well. The danger in these days is that you might think that it's too late or you're too busy to try something new; or, especially for you off-campus folks, too late to get involved in something on campus that you haven't up to now. The great danger for all of you is that you might deny yourself an opportunity to enter into some of the experiences that make this place unique in all the world. Oh, I know, you've heard it all before, but the fact of the matter is there's a difference between hearing and listening, between knowing and experiencing. 
Some of the most important experiences with which Notre Dame grad­uates walk away from this place happen in the waning days of their senior year. Some of them happen in the classroom, in moments of discovery and of genuine enlightenment. Some happen among friends as you begin to realize the significance of the relationships you've formed here and the fleeting oppor­tunities that you may have with them. Some happen because we dare to step on out of the ordinary course of our established routine and take on the extra­ordinary. 
As to what that is, I suspect you would get a different answer depend­ing on who you ask, and since this is my column, you're getting my answer! The area of life at this university that deeply engages a good portion of our campus, though not nearly all, are those opportunities we have to pray, retreat and serve together. The time has come for many of you to decide who you are and who you want to become. The end of one's college career engenders a deep reflection on just what matters most. We are who we are, however, in large part, because of the choices we make: for classes; for friends; for service; for worship and prayer; for employment; and, ultimately, for vocation. 
It's not too late to begin asking questions and considering options. It's not too late to get involved in experiences through Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns which could ultimately affect the direction of your life, and certainly your character. It would be a great shame if we walked away from this place without getting at the most important questions of life. The opportunities are all around us; the choice is ours. Not only because such a choice would most assuredly enhance your days here, but because of its poten­tial to greatly transform the life that you will live beyond this place. 
Please God, that which you have the opportunity to engage in here, will inform the deepest questions of faith and of justice and of social responsi­bility. Please God, the opportunities that you have and will yet experience here will enlighten your discernment over som e of the most important decisions of your young lives. I only encourage you to do two things: first, join us in the respective missions of Campus Ministry and of the Center for Social Concerns. There are ample opportunities to get involved even now, whether it be in areas of local service, or the urban plunge, or the Appalachian, Washington or migrant worker seminars through the Center for Social Concerns; or through Campus Ministry and the areas of faith and community through hall Masses, bible studies, EMMAUS small faith sharing groups, retreats such as the NOE, the Senior Service Retreat, or the Senior retreats which are coming up later this semester and next.year through the new Senior Retreat Program through Campus Ministry. It's not over yet. 
The second thing that Iwould encourage you to do is to throw wide the possibilities for your future. As you discern the next year or two of your life, you have the luxury of considering opportunities that will, later, probably not be available to you. The opportunities for a year or two of service are many. You will find many valuble resources on this campus: the Center for Social Concerns, the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), Holy Cross Associates, and even Campu:t Ministry which will again offer a year-long internship for two recent Notre Dame graduates. Even beyond a year or two of service, this is the time for those of you who have long considered, if only casu­ally, religious life or priesthood to consider a year to try it out and to enter into structured discernment about one of the most important decisions of your life. 
For all of you, whether you choose to step outside of the normal course or not, it is the time to cnage in conversation with trusted friends and mentors, to pray, and to revel in the opportunities that this place and these days afford you. So that when you are long beyond these days you can be confident that you took full advantage of all the opportunities that Our Lady's University had 
to offer. 
-
.. 
-C-AMPUS 
MINISTRY 
Thursday, October 7, 1999

page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: Notting Hill 10n 10/8 10/9  Thursday Frtday Saturday  
Acousticafe 10n  Thursday  
Reckers Acousticafe 10/12  Tuesday  

CLAS§ OF ~aoo 
Class Dinner 10n Thursday 
CLAS!i OF ~ao, 
Grab 'N' Give 10/8 Friday 
CLA!i!i OF i!DDi! 
Concession Stand 10/9 Saturday 
SAINT MARY'§ 
It's Pride Week: 
Field Day ,on Thursday 
ASU Pep Rally and Prayer Seivice 10/8 Friday Cushing Auditorium Cushing Auditorium Cushing Auditorium 

Lafortune Huddle 
Reckers 
BW3's 
North Dining Hall 
LeMans Hall 
MISCELLANEDUS/CAMPU!i-WIDE 
Respect Life Week: 

Tour of St. Joseph County Hospice 1on Thursday Meet @ Library Circle 
Cemetery of the Innocents and Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament 10/8 Friday the Basilica 
student union 
HAPPENINii§ 
www.nd.edu/-sub 
10:30PM Tickets: $2 8:00PM & 10:30PM 8:00PM & 10:30PM 
9:00PM-12:00AM 
8:00PM-11 :00PM 
6:30PM-8:30PM $2 
8:00PM-9:00PM 
Before the Game New class t-shirts: $12 
3:00PM-5:00PM 
3:45PM 
12:00PM-5:00PM 
Don't 
issReckers' Acausticat=e ca111ing this Tuesday@ B:DD 
Thursday, October 7, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
... 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Football 
continued from page 24

Belles settle for 1-1 tie in overtime 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Sporr, Writer 
Saint Mary's soccnr tnam timl Albion Collng<' in doubhi ovnr­timn 011 Wnd11csday with a linal scori, of 1-I . 
"Tlw girls gav1\ a solid rlTort all arou11d," Coach .Jason Milligan said. "It was not tlw rnsult wn would likn." 
Tlw lirst half' was scornlnss, 11lthough Saint :vlary's had four goal attmupts and Albion coun­tnrncl with I 0. 
"Tlwy had f'astl'r forwards than th;l t1~a111s WI'·w playPd i11 tlw past," Hrit> (;nrshick. goali11 f'or Saint \1ary's, said. 
(;prshil'k had 15 savBs for llrn night. 
Nnarly 20 minutlls into t.ho s1H·or11! hall' 111' tlw gamn, sopho­morn Mary Campi' scornd for thP lfolh1s. Slw was assisted by s1•11ior captain Katy Bargnr. 
. "Ton(~lll, w,~s a fast11r gamn lor nw, said C.am1w. 
Thl' ganw s1~nmPd to go wrdl f'or tlrn BP!IPS in l.lw su.ond half', as tlwy w1!n' abln to con­tain t.lw Alhio11 offpnsP and pass tho ball well. They had a total of' Lwnlvo shots on goal in t.hr, sncond half'. 
"In our second halves, we've alwavs come out mor(\ solid and finished rnal well," Milligan said. "I attribute it to their hard work and conditioning." 
Near tho end of the second half'. tho intonsity picked up, as tlrn Albion team tried to score and l'orce an ovr,rtimP. and the Bellos !'ought to hold their lead. 
"Thoy were definitely a more physical team than we'vo played," Gershick said. 
Forty-four minutes into the ~rncond half, Albion's Betsy lluberl scored with an assist from her teammate Wendy Boynton to tie the game. 
Tho game nndcd, according to league rules, aft.or two sud­d!m d11at.h overtimes of 15 min­utes each. 
"There's no use dwelling on it," said Milligan. "Wf>'II kcr,p our good attitudes going." 
Barger led lwr tf1am with livn shots on goal, and Tia Kappahalm addnd three. 
Saint Mary's plays its nr.xt lc~aguo game al Olivnt College tion and a chance at the NFL. 

No one expects to receive 
death threats like Sanson did 
after his missed extra point 
led to an Irish loss against the 
Trojans his freshman year or 
animated greeting cards call­
ing for him to quit like he has 
received this week. 
Sanson, however, tries not to listen to the criticism. 
"If they want to spend the time to do that -go ahead," he said laughing. "It will give mr, a good laugh every now and then." 
Then he continued more somberly. · "But it hurts, too," he said. "You honestly can't say you don't care what other people say about you because you do, because of your pride.... 
I've got no problem with what

KATE ZIEGLER/The Observer 
people say or what they do

Freshman midfielder Lynn 
but I demand more of myself

Taylor helped Saint Mary's 
than these people demand of

to a 1-1 tie In double over­
me .... I understand that all

time against Albion College. 
these people have their opin­iu ns but all these people on Oct. 10. Game time is 2 p.m. 
haven't gone out tht>re and "We jusl have to como out the 
kicked either. But I also say 1rnxt day land] keep working at 
to myself that I work out it." Milligan said. 
evoryday so I am supposed to make those kicks." 
Sanson believes that his previous struggles and rebounds have made him a 
better kicker and more able

RECREATION CENTER to respond to these current difficulties. 
"I've been through this

OPEN UNTIL MIDNIGHT!!! 
before," he said. "I am a sea­
soned vetnran. When I go out 
there I know I can make it. I

fUNDAY-THURfDAY 
am not worried about that. I think I am still the guy for

October 3rd -April 1st* 
*Whenever classes are in session 
this team. I feel I am the bet• ter kicker. I haven't been pro­ductive this year but I am still working and I am going to p~ovc ~hat I am still a good kicker. 
Sanson has had many chances before lo prove he is a good kicker and has rnsponded strongly. With every strong response, how­1wer. a poor performance has also followed a few weeks later. 
Sanson knows that he might not get another chance if he slips again. 
"In this situation I rnalize that if I get yanked it will be the last time I kick here at Notre Dame," he said. "Because I just can't see a coach going back and forth. It's not his style. It's not my style." 
With his job on the line and his family filling tho stands, some observers might feel that tho pressure will be t.oo nrnch for Sanson. The four­year starter, however, says he is not worried about tho pressure. 
"It's a do-or-die situation," he said. "People can say that. I am going lo have pressure on me and it will causP prob­lems. But it's not going to cause problems. llopef'ully it will mako me a better kicker and a better person." 
In what might bo his last week as a starter. Sanson is taking a relaxed attitude into the game. 
"I am going to go out. there this weekend and I am going to havn l'un," Im said. "I am going to show off Lo poople what I can do and if it's not good enough fino, thoy can got someone else who can do the job." 





Q0@@~1J[1@[ru@)D~ 
$1COVER 
(with college I.D., must be 21)

COLLeGe n1GHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
~ 


222 s. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 www.ACEplaces.com/heartland Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-256B 
-
... 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 7, 1999 
' 
are becoming a three-time All­

BfG SKY
the track team. The high
American in outdoor track and 

MONTANA
school track coach saw her 
SKI BIG SKY!~--_~
1~·1.
qualifying for the U.S. Olympic run, and asked her to go outtrials next summer. 

for the track and cross country
"She's very precise in the 

teams in high school. 
way she approaches her run­

SKI TRIP OVER CHRISTMAS BREAK
Since her sophomore year,
ning," said Connelly. "She's a Klemmer has known she want­

JOIN 60 OTHER ND AND SMC STUDENTS FOR SKIING IN
science major, a biology 

ed to run competitively in col­
major, and that scientific 
THE MONTANA ROCKIES FROM JAN. 8-l6th 
lege.
approach really carries over "My high school coach

into her running. 

always told me I was going to Five days, Six nights in LUXURIOUS condos on the mountain,"If you look at her running 
Round-trip transportation, -Four-Day lift ticket (optional fifth day at a reduced price), 

···•.·>D/:,,.·. '...-•Wf/!L,Y-•c 
Three apres skiing pa11ies on the mountain,

THEc·us •.•. 
For only $470 if you pay your $100 deposit by Oct. I 5th Or $490 if the deposit is paid after Oct. 15th (no later than Oct. 31 '1).
I:'QJ~ ,I~... ~i~;.,c:
A

ME OLIC 
HIGHLIGHTS: the most vertical terrain in the U.S. (I 0,000+ vertical ft.), new terrain park and half pipe for snowboarders. 
OPTIONAL ACTIVITIES: snowcat skiing, snowmobiling, 
The Hibernian L · cture · 
;., :/_:\.'-':'y~*-(.i~J}\-·/;(' '-:,_· .. ',''· .. , . );_._" ·'<: .':\ _:=\./_~­
horseback-riding, snow-shoeing, dog-sledding, or fly-fishing in
·•sco .:Zfisil:·My sir~t ' 
Yellowstone National Park 1 

Identities in EigJirrenth-·and 
NIGHTLIFE AND EXTRAS: fine-dining, several fun pubs and a
Nine'theenthct.Cerit~fyAHt~frea" J ·· 
microbrewery, and access to Huntley Base Lodge containing a hot tub, outdoor, heated, olympic-size pool, and restaurant and bar. 
-Kerby Miller 
Department ot· History 
Deposits will be collected in Lafortune by the Information Desk this l'hursday (Oct. i 11) from 9:00 to I 0:00 PM. Contact either Kathy
University of Missouri, Columbia 
Steinlage (273-9586 ), Nikki Douillet (243-9495, douillet. l@nd.edu ), 
Friday, October 8, 1999< 

Kate Ryan (274-1733) or Mike McCabe (634-0617, mccabe. l 2@nd.edu) 
3:30 p.m. 

for more information. 116 DeBartolo 
........ 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Klemm er aims for nationals 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
As,iscanr Spom [dimr 
Senior Alison Klemmer has had endurance throughout her cross country career; the (pg speed and finishing kick were thfl areas where she needed work. 
She's finally put it all togeth­Pr, making her a top-notch runner with a shot at being a cross country All-American and at qualifying for the Olympic trials in 2000. 
"For a long time,. she was a very strong runner with a lot of endurance, but there were a lot of gaps," said head women's cross country coach 

_... 
Tim Connelly. "What she's done is go out and work on filling in those gaps. She's done a whole lot of work to make herself a competitive runner." 
Klcmmer was injured and did not compete her entire freshman year, and is thus only a junior in terms of eligi­bility. Last year she was also bothered by nagging injuries during the cross country sea­son. 
"Her freshman year taught her lo be more patient," said Connelly. "She's learned to read her body. She doesn't push when it's time to back 

logs, they're very well-docu­be a great 10,000-meter run­down." 
mented," he added. "She has a ner," said Klemmer.
Because of those injuries, 

certain routine. She develops a A native of Troy, Mich.,
Klemmer has shined the most race plan and really tries to Klemmer decided to come toin outdoor track, with her best stick to it. It's what's worked Notre Dame over Wake Forest.

event being the 10,000-meter for her." A big factor in that decision run. She was an All-American Klemmer is an excellent stu­was Connelly, who she said isin outdoor track in 1998 and dent with a grade point aver­a great coach.

1999. 

age close to 3.9. After gradua­"1 just really love running,Klemmer finished third for tion, she plans to go on to get even if I'm by myself,"
the Irish at the Big East 

her master's in ecology and Klemmer said. "You finish upInvitational in cross country 
hopefully will use her final a really hard workout, and
last season. but hopes to really year of running eligibility. there's nothing like the feelingexcel this season. She hopes to After she finishes her final -you're like, wow, I did it."

_help the team finish among year of eligibjJity, Klemmerthe top 10 at the NCAA 

would like to lengthen her
Champlonships and contend 

race distance to half­
for the Big East title. 

marathons and marathons,
"I think it's a matter of hard 

hopefully with some sort of
work and mental attitude," 
sponsorship.
said Klemmer. "I hope to be She started running competi­All-American at the national tively early in her life. Aftermeet. That's my big goal." 

being the second girl to finish
More long-term goals the mile in middle school,

Klemmer has set for herself Klemmer decided to go out for 



INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
PE shuts down Lyons, secures playoff berth 
The Lewis offense was plagued with interceptions
By STEVE KEPPEL 
that killed all substantial d ri­Sports Writer 
ves. Captain Beth Wild scored the Chicks' only touchdown on a reception followed by a longLyons Hall put up a good run. Aside from that score, thefight against Blue Division Welsh dflfensfl was relentlessleader Pasquerilla East before all night, picking off six passes. 
falling 6-0 Tuesday night. 
Welsh 's performance wasAt first it seemed the Pvros highlighted by frflshman s,m­might pick up an easy wi;1 as sation Vanossa Lichon whotheir d,~fensP. picked off a pass had four int.orceptions and afrom Lyons quarterback Sara touchdown.
Jenkins on the first play of the "We bounced back from ourgame. Elizabeth Plummer then loss last week !against Lyons!
ran the ball in for PE's first pretty woll. We arc looking toscore of the game. The missed be more consistent," Welshextra point gave them a 6-0 captain Maria Feilmeyer said. 
lead. 
Welsh is excited to b,1 head­The game was highlighted ed to the playoffs in only itsby the tough play of the Lyons' third year of existence.
defense as it refused to give up 
another point. The defense was led by the defensive Walsh 7, Pasquerilla West 6 backs, who played tough man­Playoff hopeful Walsh to-m an on the receivers the defoated Pasqucrilla West, 7-6, whole game. They allowed in a do-or-die match-up with a very few completions and were postseason birth on the line. especially tough across the Walsh scored a quick touch­middle. The strong play of the down in the first half on an secondary enabled the line­option to Kay Scanlon. The 
man to put pressure on Wild Women then made the Plummer all night long. one-point conversion, which 
The Lyon's offense mounted turned out to be their most a few drives throughout the important point of the year, game but could not muster up giving them a 7-0 lead. any points. Down by seven, Pasquerilla
"Our offense didn't put our­West got the ball with under a selves together out there," minute to play. After two quickcaptain Katy Yanez said. completions from quarterback"There was too much confu­Andi Will, the Weasels were sion in the huddle. Our only a few yards away from a defense always puts up 100 score. With the clock running 
percent, but our offense has to down they managed to get the help out." snap off, and Will hit an open receiver in the corner of the end zone.
Welsh 25, Lewis 6 
They then tried for the two­Welsh Family Hall clinched point conversion which wasthe No. 2 playoff seed Tuesday batted down by Walsh's Nison night against Lewis, winning in Troy securing them a 7 -6 vic­impressive fashion. 
tory and a playoff berth. 




Thursday, October 7, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
26 North Sea 57 Weyerhaeuser

ACROSS 
feeder Co. employee 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You t Natl. 58 Specks DAY: John Mellencamp, Oliver may not want to put in overtime, but
21 Got off the 

Adopt-a-Dog North, Charles Templeton, Yo-Yo Ma, if you do, you'll prosper more than
590n-­
ground

Month Leroi Jones, Judy Landers, June you think. Your ability to work in fine 
(carousing)

4 Concert gear 29 Popular candy Allyson, Toni Braxton detail will enhance any project you
61 "Platoon" setting 
Happy Birthday: Pace yourself work on. 000

a Knickerbockers 
32 Tether 62 Canticle wisely this year, and you won't lose. LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Individ­13 Malted drink 34 Heiress, maybe 63 Mantelpiece You are creative, articulate and ready uals you meet will influence yourthat's not a to take on whatever comes your way. way of thinking. Business or pleasure
64 1.O.C. member

malted 36 Broadway Your sound judgment and common trips will bring you cultural knowl­
65 Remains

14 Experiences premiere of 1946 sense will help you make the right edge that you can integrate into your66 Baseball's decisions. You can trust your inner lifestyle. You will enjoy the changes
losses 41 Active 
Ordonez et al. voice to lead you in the right di­you make. 000
16 Budget 
42"Must---" rection. Your numbers: 3, 14, 22, 31, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
67 Blokesalternative 

(NBC slogan) 45,48 Rewards or gifts for your past good 11 U.S. 36 crosses ARIES (March 21-April 19): You deeds will help you get through a dif­
43 1939 Bogart title 

it DOWN can pick up a lot of infonna tion if you ficult period. Take care of any legal 1a Accessory role keep an open mind and discuss your matters hanging over your head. You 19 Defraud 44 Actor Hawke 1 36-Across plans with established individuals. mustn't let your persona! papers get surname Travel should be considered. Get out of date. 000020Obliged 46 Mosque V.I.P. geare:I up to make changes. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
2 What adjusters 

22 With 54-Across, TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Past acquaintances will be coming
50Comical adjust

hit from Minor health problems will develop if back into your life. You will develop 
introduction 3 Playing card 

36-Across you lake on too much. Avoid con­new partnerships that could lead to 52 In the rococo combo frontations with loved ones. Do not interesting proposals. You have to
24 Hosted 
style 4 Designer begin new projects until you have fin­make decisions about your present
25 "--far, far 
ished the old ones. 00000 situation. 00better thing . " 54 See 22-Across GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Simpson 
5 Assortment 
emotions will be unstable, and your Overindulgence will be your down­
6 Prized 

mate will be questioning what he or fall. You must be careful not to over­7 Apt description she has done to upset you. Your ner­load your plate or make unrealistic
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
of 1-Down vouS11ess will cause suspicions. Don't promises lo others. Your own plans be fickle; be honest and discuss the should take priority over someone
c o A aTreaties 31 Meditative 45 Word with bore 53 Some school 
problem. 00 else's. 00000

A B L 9 Football's --thought or wave methods 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):Bowl 33 Hosp. scan 47 Selleck 1V role 541979disco Spend some time with family. The Overspending on luxury items will be to Axis figure classic work you do around the house will your downfall. Take the time to look
34Fanatlc 48 Not troubled 
be appreciated. Entertaining will he(p into ways of improving yourself. You

11 Capone's 55 Circus cries 
35 With 21-Down, 
adversaries 49 36-Across star you expand your circle of friends. majl find a means of acquiring infor• 
56 Kings Peak 
composer of Open your doors and your heart. mation through telecommunications.
12 Dance partner _,,..
36-Across 50 Brouhaha locale 0000 000 :.;;;;.+~-:-+,c;; 15 Popular legend 60 Jonson work LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
3&Combine 51 Bridge positions 
of Dutch origin JOin organizations that will open your Spend more time finishing matters 37 Hide-hair link eyes lo a multitude of opportunities. pertaining to your work tnan trying
21 See 35-Down 38 Rule out You should attend seminars that to please everyone you live with. It
23 Yang's opposite 

. Answers to any three clues in this puzzle focus on financial security and invest­isn't likely that you can keep the 2s London-to­39 Its anagram IS a are available by touch-tone phone: ment opportunities. 000 peace at home. 000 Dover dir. synonym of itself 1.goo-420-5656 (95i per minute). =+-+:T:-r-S-t 29 Solitaire puzzle 40 Wi_nemaking Annual subscriptions are available for the Birthday Baby: You must learn that you don't have to carry the weight of the world on your shoulders. You may want lo take on responsibilities, but you 
I C I E R -==-+"='-+=-+::-A R A piece science best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
must make time for your own needs as well.

G E T A T D T A Y 30 Old French coin 44 Ocean flier 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
•

Name ____________________ Address ____________________ City _______ State ____ Zip_____ 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
"J1).s,, IJJ!tf.RE. 00 '(OU TltllJ 'iOO'itc.. G,01.ic, IIJIT\4 TM,T 
~l-1Jf-\1Nut,\ C-.\t-J ~ 
Fox TROT 
NoW, foX, If YO\J'RE botN& To PLAY DEFENSE, You'RE f,o11"6 To WANT 1o WoRk'. ON 'l'OOR 1NT1MIDAT10N Sl<ILLS 
I 

.Sufi'oS.E. 'lou WM.Ir EVEti 
REc..~u..E. \i.lEL.1 1111\MIC-t,, I'). AWJ.\IWU~ M1NE.~ 'r!'' 
t. R&:.,"(d.-L:. ,Tt-1\;Y OoN'r \\~ 
Bs.. HVN0~€:0S OF AL..Ul-lltJU 1NE\?. CMil.OREN I/JIU. b.\JtJ 
Now SAY A FEW 
CHOICE Wot,!l)S lb 1Ho!',E Pl.IT THE FEAR oF GOD DAAK 
IN M'f HEART.  SPoTSoN  
'  "fovRARM  
LOOK LIKE  
Sk1N CAMCER.  
I  

TOM KEELEY 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

BILL AMEND 
MAYBE I SHol.lLO 
EXPLAIN WHAT I MEAN A SAY, IStfl 
L1TTLE SETTER... THAT A ' 5001H AMERICAN PIT VIPER? 
Right Reason puts the "fun" in fundamentalist extremism. 
bearn.1 @nd.edu 




F = 
f 
Born to run 
Irish senior Alison Klemmer 

-
is aiming for the NCAA championships this season 
in cross country. Up next ­the 2000 Olympics?

PORTS 
page 22 

,  page 24  OTHE BSERVER  Thursday, October 7, 1999  
I  
~  
I  
t ~ •! I  FOOTBALLInterhall  
I  
Sansspirit  on seeks to end t he frustration him has weighed heavily on him  
matters  By MIKE CONNOAssociate Sports Edi tor  LLY entering the Arizona State gamfl. "The past three nights I have gotten six or seven hours of sleep  
The steely gray, drizzling  Four years agofriends and famil , Jim Sanson's because of the frustration with y from Arizona myself and my situation," he 
sky provided an appropriate  circled this week' s game against said. ''I've been hard on myself 
backdrop for the epic battle  Arizona State on t hAir calendars. about it and focused on what I 
-­ that was to take place.  It was suppose d to be a cele­have· to do ­what I can do here, 
The two teams, legendary  bration of Sans on's career at what I should have done there. 
for lheir  Notre Dame and  reunion with  
own rea- Brian Churney  childhood teamm a That's how hard I am on myself. ate and Arizona That's much how I wanted to  
sons.  State quarterback  Ryan Kealy. improve." 
formed on opposite sides of  On the Hot Corner  But all that has four years since his letter of int changed in the This season has been especially Sanson signed tough for his sister Katie who ent to attend transferred to Notrn DamP this 
the field.  Notre Dame. Mis sed field goals from the of 
Both wearing blue, the gladi­ and extra point year University s have turned Arizona. Sanson tried to prepare 
ators from both teams went  what was suppos ed to be a cele­her and his family for the criti­ 
through their typical pre­ bration into a do­ or-die game for cism that he has faced his entire  
game drills.  Sanson's career.  career and criticism they will 
On one side were the men  "My sister calle d me last night 
of Keenan Hall. Their 17­ and asked me if  surely hear this week1rnd. we were going  
game winning streak and 2-0  to have fun this  "I tried warning her," he said. weekend." "It doesn't matter ­good or bad 
record already had people  Sanson said. "I to ld her we were -you have to be prepared for 
whispering, "dynasty." From  definitely going t o have fun this everything you have to take out  
a distance. one could see that  weekend."  there." 
they were serious.  Their  For Sanson to  have fun this No one, however. prepared 
intensity was easily apparent;  weekend, he wil l have to have Sanson for the rollr.rcoaster 
their swagger was unavoid­ better results a gainst the Sun career he suffered under the 
ably noticeable. They crisply  Devils than he d id against the Dome.  
.....  ran through their plays as their coach, fully clad in suit  Sooners when short field goals.  he missed two "It wasn't in the media guide," The highlight of he said jokingly. "They didn't tell 
and tie. barked orders. Their  Sanson's effort la st weekend was 
exceptional organization and  when he made a  me anything about it on my visit tackle on a long either. I really didn't expect 
timing were fruits of weeks of  kick return by Br andon Daniels. things to go this way."  
hard laboriou~ practice and  Sanson had dif ficulty enjoying He's had game-winning kicks 
intense training.  the celebration  over the first against Texas as a freshman and 
On the other side were the  lrish victory in a  month because  
men of O'Neill Hall. They had  of these struggles.  Army as a junior and 0-2 perfor­mances like last week against 
no winning streak.  In fact,  "Saturday nig ht I had mixed Oklahoma. Sanson has gone from  
they had never won. They  emotion," he s aid. "I was so hero to goat in seconds.  
had yet this season to add to  happy for my  teammates An athlete comes to Notre 
their all-time scoring total of  because they p layed a great Dame expecting a great educa­ 
13 points. But it was this lack  JEFF HSU/The Observer game but [ was n't happy with tion and a chance at the NFL. No 
of winning, this lack of scor-Senior kicker Jim  Sanson has had a rocky career for the myself or the way  I contributed." one expects to receive death 
ing that made them danger-Irish. His perform ance against Arizona State may decide Sanson's desire  to improve and  
ous. They were due. whether he rema ins Notre Dame's starting kicker. put the Oklahom see FOOTBALL/page 21a game behind 
One could see that they  
were confident, laid back  
even.  
Most of the players had yet HOCKEY 
to put on all of their pads.  
Some were just arriving.  
Clearly the Mob was depend­ 
-._  ing on the element of sur­prise. Instead of practicing  Hockey rivalry with No. 5 Michigan is fierce  
any of the four set plays in By BILL HART  last season's three-game series  
their extensive playbook, Associate Sports Editor  proved to be one of the most  
they were adding new plays,  exciting in recent history. The  
trick plays.  series was split 1-1-1 during the  
After one of the Their coach by committee,  most exciting season, with a margin of victory  
seasons in recent memory,consisting of whoever was in  never greater than one goal.  
many Notre Damthe huddle at that time, could  e hockey fans The last time the two teams  
hoped this year'be heard arguing over which  s team would met, left wing Aniket Dhadphale  
...__  provide the samenew plays they would install.  thrills. scored the deciding goal with  
As it turns out,After deciding on scrapping  those fans will less than five minutes remain­ 
not have to wait loany notion of adding new  ng. ing in the game, off a rebound  
The Irish hockeplays, they began to set their  y team starts shot by Dan Carlson.  
their regular sealineup for this war.  son tonight at "This will be great start for  
7:05 p.m. againsAs the whistle indicating  t one of their us," senior defcnseman Tyson  
fiercest rivals, the fifth-rankedthe end of the first games of  Fraser said. "We've got a big  
Michigan Wolverithe day !Jlew, the two teams  nes. history with Michigan over my  
"It's a great wwere headed to the field.  ay to start." last three years. We've been  
said lrish headKeenan had a look of stoic  coach Dave really close and they've always  
....;..  Poulin. "There'sintensity. The Keenan coach  no question. seemed to get a bounce or a  
It's nice that it'sstood under his umbrella  the first CCHA break. We're just going to go  
game of the yehel.d by what appeared to be  ar, so all the out there. lay everything we  
focus is right here an assistant reviewing his  tonight." have on the ice and play as  ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer  
While the mgame plan. O'Neill, converse- any battles hard as we can." Junior Matt  Van Arkel (30) and the Notre Dame hockey team  
between thely, was full of chatter. Their  Irish and open their re gular season tonight against Michigan.  

see CHURNEY/page 17 

,...... 
Wolverines dates back to 1 921, 
see HOCKEY/page 18 
vs. Arizona State 

vs. Michigan vs. Providence Saturday, 1:30 p.m. 
Today, 7 p.m. Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 
.~
SPORTS ~ ~ 
_,, ATA 
vs. W'est Virginia " Volleyball at Olivet College ~ Friday, 7:30 p.m. at Rutgers Sunday, 2 p.m. GLANCE Saturday, 2 p.m. ~ 




