¦ Students find another ouclet for volunteerism in
¦ Pope John Paul II arrived in St. Louis 
Wednesday
Tuesday during his brief visit to the United 
the local SOS program. 
States. 

JANUARY 27, 
World & Nation • 5· 
1999

News• 3 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXII NO. 76 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
¦ NEWS ANALYSIS 

Use of fertility enhancers raises moral questions 
By SARAH J. HILTZ "Any life is a mirade, but the lives of mothers and was not under the direct or arlif'icial, is allnmpted. If' AsliOl'lcHc News Editot how it g<'ts thcrr. might br. per­babir.s. But according to supervision of a physician. too many eggs arn found or cnived as a mistake," Reineke Reineke, it is often the impa­."Nobody was taking ca.re ol' they are loo small. the patient 
In tlw pasl two years, l111ad­said. tient couples who arc to her. She was self-medicating," must wait and try again after li 1111s havP C('lr.braled the. Hr.inekn was displeased ovPr he said. "These drugs are very anotlrnr menstrual cyclo. McCaughny nnd Chukwu octu­llrn media's exploitation and expensive. To cut costs, peopln Problems arise wlrnn couplos pIH ts. W hi 111 thn parnn Ls of glorification of' the oduplets' buy them over the Internet or ignore doctor's advice, whnn L111\SP babies d1•clare that they births. I le sees it as a misrep­buy them abroad" and treat the doctor incorrectly counts
'ANY LIFE IS A MIRACLE 
haVP h1•pn blPss1\d. doctors are resentation of what is actually themselves. the follicles, or when couples
BUT HOW IT GETS
qunstioning tlrn 1•thics of mulli­an unsuccessful medical proce­"With good management of do not seek medical attention pl1· births. d11rn. THERE MIGHT BE PERCEIVED hyperslimulat.ion, it is very dif­and rngulatn their own drug "This is nol a virLory," said "News wants happy stories ficult to get more than twin1:; or intake.
AS A MISTAKE.'
llr. BPnjamin YoungPr or llw The attitude of news triplets," Heineke said. Tho choice to go ahead with J\ml'riran Societv f'or reporters is ·predictable. It's After fertility drugs such as insemination is also often ll1•prodt1clivn Mmlicin;i. "A lot like Lhey're looking at pup­Clomid are administered, a based on finances. Each treat­
DR. J. RICHARD R!:.'/NHKH
of lh1•sp kids sui-vivu, but pins," Im said, pointing out vaginal ultrasound is per­ment cycle costs thousands of' 
INFHRTJLITY SPECIALIST
unfortunatnly, tlwy survive that the divorce rate ror par­formed to count the number of dollars, making it burdensonw with mnjor handiraps." ents ol' multiple birth children mature egg follicles. If' tho to cancel and wait l'or a moro 
llr..J. l!irhard HninPkP, an is higlrnr than <JO 1wrcenl. count l'inds three tu five l'olli­opportunn limo. i11f'Prlilily s1wrialist in South In the aftermath of tho now­blame. While Heineke can not cles of mature size, the patient "Pnople are making choices llPnd and tlH• only onn i11 famous octuplets, many have speculate on exactly why is injected with lluman not based on quality medical Michiana, arknowledgos c•thi­attacked the fertility industry Nkem Chukwu had so many Chorionic Gonadatropin (!ICG) ral PYPhrow-raising also. for irrnsponsibly endangering babies. he explains that she and semination, be it natural see BABIES / page Li 

DECISIONS IN LONDON 
Joining 

Editor '.r Note: On Fri., Feb. 5, the Board ofTrustees will meet in London to discuss, among other issues, Notre Dame '.r 
. position on joining the Big Ten and the pombility ofadding the protection ofsexual orientation to the University snon­discrimination clause. Throughout the days leading to that meeting, The Observer will take a comprehensive look ,u the history and people behind these two issues as well as possible ramifications of decisions that the board might deliver.
~-N

The Big Ten 


Courtship fills long Clause revision efforts Big Ten-ND history will reach Trustees 
By BILL HART 
A~!\i.\l,lllt Sports Editor 
Tim rlidw "history rnpeats itself" applins ol'l•rn enough to collegiate sports, and thn issun of' Notrn Dame .-xamining 1rnm1bm·ship in the Big Tnn confornnco confirms that usefulness. 
Now is hardly the l'irst time that both collr•gp and confon•ncn havn mol to rnnsidl'r a f11lLiro togc1ther. In !'act, Not.n' Danw and the Big Tnn have conforrncl snv,iral times in the past lo tlisruss thn issue. The l011g history of courtship botw1•1'n tlrn two Miclwcistnrn pownrs is 01m worth nxamining in light of Lhn approaching dnacllin1• for d()cision-making on Notre D1111w's part 
hi TIIE IIEC;[\NIN(; 

In tlw 1\arly rlays or tho colleg1• root­hall, university faculty had no intfirest in running tlwir schoob' teams, so tlrny ltiJ'I Urn ctocision-nrnk.ing up to stuclllnts or alumni. llowover, with the managers given a "!'me hand" at prac­ticns and a growing emphasis of' win­ning, rlmating became a m,~jor prob­lrnn li,r 111a11y institutions by the late i'Jth century. This alarmed faculty and as a rosult many collngos created "athllltic boards or control" to monitor playPrs, coaclws and alumni of their schools' teams. 
By the 1890s, most schools Imel their own forms of these faculty boards. but there were still tensions and conflicts, mostly caused by differing rules a-nd procedures al each institution. 
In 1895-96, the presidents of the universities of Chicago, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, Northwestern, Purdue and Michigan agreed to form tho WestPrn Conference to construct a uniform code of' intnrcollegiate athlet­ic rules. Many educators and sports­wrilnrs labeled this a major leap in collogc sports. 
"It was thP first organized confer­ence," wrote Murray Sperber, University of Indiana professor and author of Onward to Victory. "Many think the Ivy League was the oldest, but it didn't get legally created until the '!iOs. The Big Ten's creation was the beginning of organized athletics." 
At Notre Dame, it was obvious that admission into the Western Conl'Prence would lrnlp tlrn Irish improve their notoriety and perhaps improve their linandal standing. The school immediately applied for admis­sion in 18%, but it was quickly rnject­ed on the grounds that the university was not large enough and its eligibility rules for athletics were not in line with conference standards. The next year, Notre Dame changr.d its rules in 
see BIG TEN / page 6 
By TIM LOGAN 
Associate News Editor 

Four years of protests, rallies, resolutions and debate will corric to a climax next weekend when the Notre Dame Board of Trustees meets in London to consider the addition of sexual orientation to the University's non-discrimination clause. The der.ision on this matt<~r was 
sent  to  the  Trustees  after  the  
Academic  Council  voted  in  
November  lo  recommend  the  

change. Arter taking that body's recommendation undr,r advise­ment, University president Father Edward Malloy chose to present the matter lo the Trustees for a final decision. 
In recent months. the Academic Council, the Faculty Senate and the Student Senate have all voted in favor of the clause change, which is also supported by a number of' campus groups. Those organiza­tions havP called on administrators to back up the sentiments of non­discrimination professed in the existing Spirit of Inclusion clause with a legally binding action that would protect homosexuals from discrimination in admissions and hiring. 
Opposition to the change has largely focused on two issues, one legal and one theological. There is concern that l"rivolous-lawsuits and invasive civil court decisions could erode Notrn Dame's ability lo act independently. Another potential difficulty lies in the Church's dis­tinction betwer.n homosexual orien­tation and homosnxual acts. 
When thr. Trustees meet next weekend. they will have to weigh tlwso 1,:011cerns with the importance or protecting homosexual membnrs of tho Notre Dame community. 
IIISTOHY 

This issuP, and the greater issur. of gay rights al Notre Dame. has been the subject of' intr.nse discus­sion on campus over the past sever­al ynars, particularly since Cays and Lesbians of ND/SMC was barred from meeting on campus in Jan.. 1995. 
Soon after that incident, vice president for Stude11t Affairs Patricia O'llara nstablislrncl tlrn Ad lloc Committee on Gay and Lnsbian Student Needs, which began to look into the condition of' homosexual students at Notre Dame. The com­mitte(l studied tho matter for nearly 
see INCLUSION / page 4 
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Wednesday, January 27, 1999 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 


Bring on the 
Hunt 
Mankind has lost its appreciation for life -and I have a solution. Before l elaborate on this, let me preface it vvith a brief explanation. 
This lack of appreciation for life is at the heart of all that plagues our society. It goes beyond an abortion debate, beyond a euthanasia debate and even goes beyond our use of the death penalty. We drink and then drive, even though as you read this column (if you continue past this point, that is) one more person will die due to it. We persist in having unprotected sex, although HIV continues to run ram­pant. V\lhat about the chron­ic use of drugs? Every day 

Eduardo Llull 
men, women and children 

Viewpoint Editor
die silent deaths -deaths, that is, that don't make the news -due tu drugs. How many more thou­sands must die before we stop tempting the fates'!! But l digress. 
The point is that drug use, abortion, violent crime and reckless behavior such as drunk dri­ving are all social ills that stem from a void in our human psyche where once sat an acute apprecia­tion for this wonder of life. Preachers can preach until they are blue in the face -but what do they know'? Right? Governments can legislate all they want, but their biggest campaign recently has been against tobacco, and one can't help but wonder if their real motivation doesn't actually take root in the abominable amount of funds poured into health care every year due to this weed. El Salvador recently took a step in the right direction by getting genuinely tough on drunk drivers ... but as punishment these ripped roadster must face the firing squad. They're missing the point. 
Openly we may show our pity. Fighting these issues always resonates well with the public, whether it be a politician or merely a philan­thropist. But let's be honest, among friends or perhaps in the deepest recesses of our subcon­scious a little voice praises these deaths as bene­ficial for solving a quickly evolving population problem, or better yet, simply as Darwin at work. Let me break it down still further, and even offer that solution I promised. 
Getting past the surface which we are scratch­ing here, lies the true heart of the problem ­man has no natural enemy. We have become complacent. Our natural inclination to compete manifests itself in this: without having to watch for predators we create our own. We become our own predator and, consequently, prey. Here is my solution. 
Science has reached heights unparalleled. We have the ability to clone animals, even human beings, for the purpose ofscience. (Another example that life is no loI1ger precious -but mechanical if useful to science, worthless if not.) Why not create a natural predator for man? Crazy, you say? Nonsense? I say it would be an improvement over our present situation. 
With life constantly under attack. we would have to band together rather than make war on each other; drugs would be too much of a risk as we would constantly need our wits about us; and parents would be more inclined to nurture rather than abort their babies. Every life, taken individ­ually, would be precious. 
On the other hand, there would still be benefits 
for the human race as a whole. Darwin would be 
at work carefully selecting those men and women 
cunning enough to survive. These survivors could 
then perpetuate a more finely tuned, if you will, 
human race. Population problem? Are you kid­
ding? There would be a problem of under popu­
lation. You bettfir believe we would protect life. 
There you have it. Everyone is happy. Bring on 
the hunt. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ TooAv'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Derek Betcher  Emmett Malloy  
Maggy Tinucci  Graphics  
Laura Rompf  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Lab Tech  
Anthony Bianco  Jeff Hsu  
Viewpoint  
Eddie Llull  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ex-:ept during exam and vacation period~. Th~ Ob,-;erver is a member of rhc Asrociared Pross. All reproduction rights an, rcs,,rved. 








utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Medical school praises animal testing in search for cures 

PITTSBURGH, Penn. 
Almost all major medical advances in the past 61 years have depended on using animals for research, according to the dean of Pitt's medical school. 
Dr. Art Levine, Pitt's senior vice­chancellor of health sciences and dean 
· of the School of Medicine. said the expe.riments arc performed on ani­mals because tl1eir reactions arc simi­lar to those of humans. Because many researchers are not willing to risk human lives to study medicine, tests are first performed on animals. "Without the use of animal research, we'd have no cancer chemotherapy or radiation," Levine said. "And no happy people taking Prozac." Nearly 1 million of the 11 million American diabetics are alive today because of animal studies. according to Pitt's animal research statistics. More than 10,000 blind or visually impaired people can now see because 

of corneal transplants perfected on animals. 
Since the first Nobel Prizes were awarded in 1901, 65 prizewinners have relied on animal subjects for their research. 
Ronald Herbcrman, director of Pitt's Cancer Institute, said the institute has benefited greatly from animal research. 
"We have learned about better ways to treat cancer," Herberman said, "as well as discovering the side effects of certain treatments." 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF \l!JASH!f,JGTOl\i 
Campus affirms commitment to diversity 
SEATTLE, Wash. 
1-200, the anti-affirmative action initiative passed by Washington voters Nov. 3. will become the campus com­munity's greatest obstacle in maintaining diversity at UW, said President Richard McCormick in a presentation Monday afternoon. Led by McCormick, a group of faculty, students and administration gathered to discuss the UW's continued commitment to diversity. "We have to get from here to there in a different way than we have up until now," McCormick said. At the meeting's onset, McCormick outlined two of the most pertinent aspects of the UW's dedication to education: first, the University's firm belief that diversity is essential to academic excellence because all students benefit from exposure to and dialogue with people of diverse backgrounds. Secondly, in terms of edu­cational opportunity, McCormick noted the correlation between level of flducation and success in the job market. 
¦ SOUTHERN ILUNOIS UN!VERSITV Pope visit inspires· student group 
CARBONDALE, Ill. 
Thirty-six Southern Illinois University-Carbondale stu­dents from the Newman Catholic Student Center got one step closer to God Tuesday when they visited Pope John Paul II at a youth gathering in St. Louis. The Light of the World youth gathering is a day-long celebration geared toward high school and college students, beginning at 9 
a.m. and culminating with the pope's arrival at 6 p.m. 'Tm going to be in the presence of greatness," Sarah Schneider, a senior in recreation from Belleville, said. "This is somebody who is known from across the far reaches of the world. It's like going to a Bulls game and watching Michael Jordan play." Leading the group on their pilgrimage is John Scarano, director of the Newman Catholic Center. Scarano said the Kiel Center activities offer the students a chance to celebrate their religion with an estimated 21,000 other participants. 


Hesponsiblc scientists are constantly examining their experim1mts to make sure they are worthwhile and don't sacrifice animals unless absolutely necessary. 
Each experiment is reviewed by a grant committee and, according to Levine, fewer than one out of four experiments are granted funding. 
The National Institute of Health reviews each experiment and has issued penalties only 14 times in the institute's history. 
"The scientific community is doing the right thing," Levine said. 
Before an experiment can be per­formed, a researcher must prepare a protocol stating how many animals will be used, what species will be used and the scientific purpose of the experiment. The protocol is judged by a committee of peers, made up of community members as well as scien­tists. 

¦ PENNSYLVANIA STATE IJN;vrnsrrv 
Deficit casts shadow on students future 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 

The national budget deficit for last year was just reported as the lowest it has been during Clinton's administration, but the national debt continues to grow and may affect college students' retirements. The deficit was $29 billion and the debt grew to about $5.6 trillion, according to The Concord Coalition, which educates college students about the nation­al debt. One concern students may have with the debt is how it will affect Social Security, a program originated when there were many more workers than there were retired peo­ple. "This is really (college students') problem," Jeff Thiebert, youth and college outreach coordinator for the coalition, said. "They're the ones who are going to have to front the bill for Social Security." This can cause stress because students want a good standard of living for them­selves but also want to see their parents and grandparents taken care of by Social Security, he said. 

¦ YALE UN!VEBSlTY NCAA faces Supreme Court decision 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 

Supreme Court action could force the National Collegiate Athletic Association to change policies on athletic scholar­ships, budgeting and athletic eligibility. The Court heard oral arguments Wednesday in the case of H. M. Smith v. National Collegiate Athletic Association. which centers on whether the NCAA, as an institution separate from its member colleges, receives federal funds in the form of dues from its members. Federal laws prohibiting discrimi­nation against women and minority students, known col­lectively as Title IX and Title VII, apply to all recipients of federal education dollars. II' the court determines that the NCM does receive government money, it would be subject to Title IX and Title VII regulations. Such regulations could affect budgets on men's and women's sporting events, distribution of athlntic scholarships and standards for athletic eligibility. 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 27. 

Wedn~sday a·•··_·. 
39j
''''.. 

Thursday ~d;~i:
~'',,,, "'' 


Friday1 25,'
~... '{ . 

~ 
7"6:, 
70•~

Satur~ay ~1> 21{1

+.:;i·.tZ; ;;;······ BOs---o\)-' 80s

·, ;sr FRONTS: 
~
.,,......... 
............. 

0 1999 AceuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
!---=----------------------~


ro·4o 23 
Pressure: 
:.. ~~'.-~

'
® © D CJ. [;] .. GI]. . 0 ,,.,..Toi, ~
.

High Low Stiowers Rain T-storms Fiurrles Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 47 76 Chicago 38 49 Omaha 34 44 Austin 58 73 Fargo 15 19 Richmond 33 67
~,Q,~q~Q . -~ & 

Boston 31 43 Nashville 50 70 Sacramento 37 52
Showers T-storms Ram Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chapel Hilt 37 69 New Orleans 55 77 Tampa 59 83
Via Associated P1e.ss GraphiesN.et 

Wednesday, January 27, l999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
¦ BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Budgetary concerns fill meeting agenda 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
SJUll Mary's Editor 
Tlw board ol' govnrnancc n•vinwed this y1\ar's budget and nxaminnd updates of' I' x pIHHI it u r 11 s a t T LI n s d ay nighl's mncting. 
With a rnmaining balancn of' $4] ,702. :n, th,• BOG a1111ot11H·nd tha1 s1wnding l'or llw t·11rr1•11t yt•ar has lotulod $82.464.6:i so far. 
StudPnl body prnsidnnt Sarah Sicf'Prt rPmind!'d the hoard that this remaining monl'y "will go f'ast" IHH'aus!' of' nncl-of-lhn-v1\Hr costs. Slin also said sh<' ;,xpPrtS to lrnv<•­l'llOllgh motwy for a roll-ovor into 111•xt y1•ar's hudgn!.. 
BOC also grant,•d co-spoil· sorship lo StudPnt /\ctivitil's lloard i11 tlw l'orm of 
$:LOOO for tlw annual SMC T11slal f't•stivili1•s. l.ast y1iar's SAB 1·om111iltl'P s1w11t lwtwenn $12,000 uncl $17,000 011 the .-wnl.. said .Jannt I lorvaU1. S/\B 1·oordinator. 
SAB plans on drawing about $'),000 in 1•xtra 1'111fds from SAB dPpartmP11ls. su('h as !'lllPrtai1111w11t a11d puhlirity. 
This spring's St\lC Tosta! f'VP11ts will i11!'l11dP human howling. rot·k t·limhing. char­a!'lnisls, b1111gPP jumping. a d rivI' -i 11 mo,. i" and various ga111Ps and l'lll<•rlai1111w11l throughout tho fampus. 
"This is a rampus-wide l'\'1'111, put Oil ror tlw nntirn studf'nt hodv. W<•'d likP tt, maki• it as f'u·11 and p)ahoratP m, last y,•ar, hut at this µoint. Wl' 0 1'f' l'f'SlrictPd by runds," I lmvath said. app1•aii11g to tlw 
board for co-sponsorship. In othor BOG news; 
• 
The crnative, problem­solving group Odyssey of the Mind received club recogni­tion. The c!uh is currnntly active at Notre Dame and cur­rcintly has one Saint Mary's mornbor. 

• 
Saint Mary's /\f'filiatos for t ho /\ mf\ r ican Ch Fnn icaI Socinty (SMAACS) was granted co-sponsorship in the form of $800 in order l.o participate in an American Chemical Society's national confert\Ucn. Tlw group asklld for $ I ,246 iltHl would like lo send, al most. four students to thp, nvent in J\nalrnim, Calif. 

• 
Siefert r11minded the board that Meet the Candidates Night will lake place at 7 p.m. in llagaar Parlor on Feb. 2. The elections for student body prnsidmit will takr. place on Ff'b. 4. If needed. run-offs will take placfl on Feb. 8. 

• 
Sinf'urt and Georgeanna Hosenbush. student activities dirPclor, encouraged students to nominatn sc~niors for the (h1tstanding Sei1ior of the Year award and tlw Lumina Cristi award. which am prnsrmted at comm1• 11 c,1 men l c:e rem on ies _ Ty1wd rncornmondations can Im dnlivered to the office of' Linda Timm. vice presid(1nt !'or student affairs. · 


"It would be vnrv nico to sne morn jnominalion~I generated from thn students f'or the awards, ratlwr than from fac­ulty or administrators," 
HosPnbush said. "Nominate rolP modPls who have influ­nncncl you and shaped you." 

SOS offers support to abused 
ByJOCELYN ALLISON NMVsWrlrer 
The Sex Offense S<1rvices (SOS) program at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is celebrating 25 years of assistance t.o vie­tims of sexual assault, and has just recently been expanded to include a program nn domestic violonco as Wflll. . 
Thirtv0 soveri. Notre Dame and Saint Mafy's)tudents (:urrently volunhie\; for tht~ SOS program at the Madison Center and St. Joseph Hospital in South Bend ~o help counsel rape viclims and their familios. 
''[The victims! don't have to sp(iak to me if they don't want to. They know that I am th,mi if they need me," one SOS advocattl said, who has been involved in th11 program f(Jl' two years. 
"Each ease ls so very inclivid­ual. There's no chocklist of things to cover; they aro just there to listen," said Laurel Eslinger, director of SOS. 
"[The advocates! are never there to ask what happened. Tluu's the job of the hospital to gather physfoal evidenco or rnpo, and the police to ask tlrn official questions and muke the reports. The advocates am there to work on a more emo­tion al level. Ninety-nine per­cent of the time [tile victims] are willing to talk," Eslinger said. 
Con11dentiality is an impor• tant part of' SOS counseling. When advocates meet with vie• thus they use only their first names and are not allowed t.o acknowlodgo the victims if they see them in public unless the victim acknowledges them first. 
Although advocates aro required to do a follow-up call two or three days arter the 

incJd.~nt, it is important that victill/s cto not hciconrn too d'e'pondont on the advocates. "It's really for (the advocates'! own protection." Eslinger said. 
Students who volunteer for the program must first undergo an application and interview process before tlrny can begin training. In order for the volun­teers to.become SOS advocates therro.ust cornplote 3(1 hours of trairi•Ing, lnduding two three­hour sessions twice a week for six weeks. They learn about hospital proceduros, police investigation, court processes. medical protocol. and crisis intervention techniques. 
Volunteers practice role­playing and participate in dis­• 
'T·HE VICTIMS DON'T HAVE TO SPEAK TO · 
ME IF THEY DON'T WANT TO. THEY KNOW THAT I AM THERE IF THEY NEED ME,' 
ANQNYMOUS SOS VOWNTEl:R 
cussions to learn more about the characteristics of victims and offenders, as well as how tu take a telephone call when a victim is in need. · 
Once training is complofo, SOS advocates are on call for six hours a week. and can either bo summon(ld to the hospital to meet with a victim one-on-one or asked to talk with the victim over the phone. Each advocate has a partnnr and ono person meets with tho family while the other speaks <.liroctly with tho victim. 
All male advocates aro 
teamed with l'ernales. and are only allownd to 1rrnet with t}w family of a female rape victim, nevtw tho victim herself. Other SOS st.all' members work dOS(l­ly with the police department and the courts as well as soclal workers that specialize in abuse and snxual assault. If tho caso goes to court, the advo• cato can be there to offer sup· port for Uw victim. 
In addition to counseling rape victims at the hospital, rnanv advocatos also volunteer in provontion programs at the local junior high and high schools. Notre Dame seniors Laurnn lloscoc and Susan Affleck-Graves run tho pro­gram for the Junior highs called "Subjnct: Sexual Aln1s,1." Roscoe estimates that they have roached over 2,000 kids with their program. 

"Sometimes we go back to the sanrn school once each sumester so we can reach all the kids in tho diffurcnt dass­cs," Hoscoc said. Notre Dame junior Michelle Visnosky und senior Kora Think(1 am co­coordinators of the high school progrnm cnllncl "No Means No.'' 
Those involved in the prnvon­ti on presentation are also required to complete a six to ninn hour training program on rape and domestic violence. as well as learn how to deal vvith any young studnnts I.hat conw to them with questions aftM' the presentation. 
"It's not sonwthing that's f'or evorybody. Wtl have wonderful. students that volunteer their time and Urny am invaluahl1.i (.o us," Eslinger said. 
The llC'Xt training session bngins Feb. 4. Appli!'ations can bn obtai11()d by calling thn SOS omen at 28:i-l :ms. 


CCN11:R ,on 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
T1rn SEMINAH 

Appalachia Seminar 

ND prof renews calls for nuclear restraint 
. By KYLE ANDREWS Stalns has alrnady agnwd not News Writer to usn chnmical and biological wnapons. but it still rnlit!S on J\dvocating a univorsal ban nuclear wnapons as a dntnr· on the initial use of' weapons ront. This, hownvnr, is not of' mass dnstruc ti on, Alan wholly prac. tir.a'I. If' Iraq or Dowty, professor of govern-anotlwr 11011-11u1·lnar !'ountry ment and follow at the Kroc were to use i:lwmical Institute f'or International weapons. then the Unit<HI Peace Studies, examined why States would h1~ unablo to the United States reserves its retaliatn with nuclear force, right to this use in rnsponse to in accordance with tlwir 1968 tho threat of chemical and decision to 1wv,1r use nuclnar biological weapons. weapons on a non-nuclear "Give priority to preventing state. their use," Dowty stated. To expand that limitation The first step must be taken and adopt l>owty's proposal to "bring all weapons of mass that "no state should 11s11 destruction into the same weapons of mass destruction tent," said Dowty. Nuclear, on another state" could mnan chemical and biological that other countrios would Im weapons must all bn consid-more inclined to nliminatn ered weapons of mass their clrnmical and biological destruction, he explainnd, weapons. This would allow This stems from the fact that the United States to rely on its chemical and biological • convnntional military superi­
• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia March Cin-13, 1999 

• 
One credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
l'asl participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to 


11ie Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learmng opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus Oil iswes concerning rural health care, the environment, wo111en, children, and housing construction. Through hands 011 work and person-to-person contacts. !!Ludents experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyi.e the social forces that inOuence the Appalachian people. 
Al'l'LICATIONS 
Available nl Lhe Center for Social Concerns 
Due date: Thursday, January 28, 1999 -10:00 am 
$40 deposit with application (non-refundable if 
acccplcJ) 

Frnn1m1t INFORMATION 
Tom Kilroy, Student Task Force Co-Clrnirperson, 271-1901 
Sarah Kol.Isa. Student Task Force Co-Chai1pcrson, (,34-2892 li.ad1el To111as Morgan, Seminar Coordinator, 1-5293 
weapons am lwing usncl as the "poor man's nuclear weapons" in countries such as Iraq. 
"While no long(ir flaunte<.1, the chemical weapons are still there," Dowty warned. 
Weapons of mass dcstruc­lion should bo rnducnd to a second-use role, using thnm only as a dnl.errnnt, hn contin­ued. Onco this transitional phaso has bnon adoptcid, thnn efforts can be ainwd at climi­nating un;cnals altogotlwr. 
A first-use ban would con­stituto a major change in U.S. foreign policy. Tlrn United 
ority. Dowty lwlinvos tho con­vnntional su1jcriority would be grnatly increased with the "poor man's equalizers" gonn, Tlrnsn probloms could lw dealt with d'f'ectivcly through IPgis­lation. 
Dowty has puhlislrnd books and articlos on tho politics and diplomacy of tlw Midcll<1 East, l'ornign policy. and the controlling of' w11apo11s of mass dnslruclion. lln has rccnntly rntunwd from spnak· ing with t.lw N(,0 committc,1 of tlw Unit(1d Nations rngard­ing wnapons ol' mass dostru<·­tio11, 

------------------------...... .... ......-------........ ..._. 
page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 27, 1999 

-~---, . .,.,,,,,,,_~,-,... «T ••-~.-.-,_ •""-.,.. __.,, --~~-·.-•·•,c·c•.w.· •
The Observer 

Get into your very own Emmaus community! 

Inclusion 
continued from page 1 
a year before presenting a list of 12 recommendations to O'Hara, including calls to rec­ognize GLNO/SMC as an offi­cial student group and to include sexual orientation in the non-discrimination clause. In April, 1996. O'Hara agreed to.put the non-discrimination clause issue under considera­tion by the officers of the University. 
AL that time, campus groups, including both the Student and Faculty Senates, began looking into the matter. Both senates passed resolutions in support of the change and support among the general student body began to grow. More than 400 people attended a rally on the steps of the Main Building to call for the amend­ment in April, 1997, while the officers were still debating the matter. 
In August, 1997, when class­es began for the 1997-98 school year, the officers announced their decision not to revise the clause, instead drafting the· Spirit of Inclusion statement, a non-binding statement which called on members of the Notre Dame community to treat each other as equals. 
"We welcome all people, 
regardless of color, gender. 
religion, ethnicity, sexual ori­
entation, social or economic 
class, and nationality, for 
example, precisely because of 
Christ's calling to treat others 
as we desire to be treated," 
the statement reads. 
At the time, this was the last 
word on the matter, but sup­
porters of the clause contin­
ued to push for a stronger 
statement offering legal pro­
tection to homosexuals. 
RECENT EVENTS 
Last March, Father David 
Garrick, an openly homosexu­
al professor in the 
Communication and Theater 
department, resigned in 
protest of the administration's 
handling of gay and lesbian 
issues at Notre Dame. 
Garrick's resignation 
brought a new focus to the 
issue. A rally in March calling 
for the clause change attract­
ed several hundred people to 
Please Recycle 
the Fieldhouse Mall and national media organizations including the New York Times covered the resignation. 
The Faculty Senate passed a resolution in May calling for the clause change, and in September, that motion was put on the agenda for the Academic Council. The Council is a group composed primarily of faculty and administrators which decides issues of impor­tance to the University's acad­emic and campus life. 
On Oct. 8, the Council chose to put off a decision for fin weeks in order to further research the amendment's legal and theological ramifica­tions. At that meeting, dean of the College of Business Administration Carolyn Woo told the Council that a most­qualified job app!i.cant wh9 admitted in an interview to being a practicing homosexual was not hired largely because of that fact. 
This development, and the advancement of the clanse change to such a high level of University hierarchy, Jed to an increase in student activism surrounding the issue. Talk show pioneer and Notre Dame graduate Phil Donahue came to campus to speak about the clause change, and a number of student leaders petitioned the Council to support the change. 
On Nov. 17, the Academic 
Council voted 19-15 to send 
the clause on to Malloy and 
the Board of Trustees. This is 
the highest level of University 
decision-makers to consider 
the matter thus far, and the 
Board can make a final deci­
sion on the issue. 
THE CLAUSE 
The University's legal non­
discrimination clause. as pub­
lished in du Lac, states the fol­
lowing: "The University of 
Notre Dame does not discrimi­
nate on the basis of race, 
color, national or ethnic ori· 
gin, sex, disability, veteran 
status or age in the adminis­
tration of any of its education­
al programs, admissions poli­
cies, scholarship and loan pro­
gr ams, athletic and other 
school-administered programs 
or in employment." 
The proposed change would 
most likely result in the addi­
tion of sexual orientation to 
the list of characteristics. 


i 
, Join other Emmaus communities for a
[ 
relaxing time of song & prayer... 
"~,.2:::, 


Babies 
continued from page I 
care but on what their insur­ance will cover," said Theresa Venet Grant, president of the International Council on Infertility Information Dissemination. 
Further ethical issues arc raised when an obstetrician believes that too many babies in the womb are endangflring the mother's life or preventing the healthy development of other fetuses. At this point, as in the case with Bobbi Mccaughey, selective reduc­tion is often-suggested. Selective reduction is the pick­and-choose technique of abort-

Building a better tomorrow 
MPI . '
...one step at a tzme. 
RESEARCH Job Fair 
Various technical representatives will be on hand to conduct 
I 

ing some fetuses and leaving others. 
"The problem is that some doctors arcn 't careful about how many pregnancies they cause. You just get a reduction until you get lhow many babies] you want," Dr. Heineke explained. 
In a decision that made headlines, Mccaughey refused doctors' recommendations to have selective reductions. Instead, she assumed the risks until her waist line grew to 52 inches and she delivered eight live babies. Moro than a year later, the babies arc all rela­tively healthy. 
The Chukwu's also reported­ly refused selective reduction due to their religious belief's. Chukwu was hospitalized for 
on-the-spot interviews at the Radisson Plaza Hotel in Kalamazoo 1 January 30th from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Opportunities exist for both entry-level and experienced staff in the following areas: 
Research Technicians --Toxicology and Pathology Maintenance 
Administrative Support 
MPI works to preserve the safety of the products you buy, the foods you eat, and the medications which improve the quality of your life. We contract with government agencies and private companies to develop life-sustaining drugs, better food preservatives, safer agricul­tural chemicals and many more products whose development you wouldn't even suspect we were involved in --but we were. 
Be part of the team building a better tomorrow. EOE 
Comprehensive Benefits and Bonus Program 
,_.,,,..,.,..,,_,,..........,,~.....,,,,_--__,__ ...___
•-'-<···•'· '.«.-...,..,O.
<---~'"·----­

We invite you to the first-ever... 
...featuring the words and wisdom ofChandra Johnson on breaking open the word of God. 

several weeks during her pregnancy, suspended nearly upside down to relieve pres­sure on other parts of her body. 
Beineke stressed that it is not the place of physicians or "Harvard ethicists" to decide whether the existence of these babies is good or bad, and that he feels it is his responsibility to help the couples that come to him for help. 
"Whether you can say it's good or bad is a human value. Nature doesn't care. You can't stand by and do nothing ­You'vo got to be proactive, but you don't have to he reckloss," he said. 
The New York Times con­tributed to this report. 
.. munltyNightl ¦
0f'0PU5 

,/"h.~·'+,':'''i0.~~{~~r~J¥~~z.~~'!i>'ft·:··..,,,...,.··:-. 
. . . ··;,. . . . ... . . . ... , .'.''. ,., ........,..,:.,.~-·~•. 
tv11Nl5TRY 


Wednesday, Jant1.iry 27.1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Prankster impedes high 
school basketball game 
i\KHON 
With Copl(1y lligh School loading W:1dswor1h by only two points in a crucial bask(•( hall ganw. a C:oph•y fan matlP a dcl'cn­s iv1• manPuvc•r sur«'IV !l(lt addrnssiid in V\iadsworfh's playl>ook. -.lust as a Wadsworth playPr was about. to throw an inbounds pass, lhl' Ih-yPa r-11ld CopIPy studnnt pullnd 1.!w playc•r's shorts down lo his kmrns. CoplPy hPid 011 lo wiu l'riday night's gamn. (i:,-h0. "Tlw itwidPnt look plan~ a I a •Titical stag1\ ol' tilt· gaI1H', and it was a must-win for our· tc•am," Wadsworth roal'h .lohn Martin said. "C:a11 you irnagi1w what kind of co11cp11lratio11 our kid hacl af'lPr hi' was PXposPd'!" Thr Lopky prnnkswr, whose 1111111n was withlwld !il't'at1s1• of' his ag.•, was atTPstnd ai'tl'r lw 1ri1•d to n111 away. II!• was rhargod with mis­dP!ll••anor counts of' clisrupling a lawful 1111•PI ing and disordt•rly ronchwt. Pol icn Lt. llav(• Satl!Pr said tl11• boy undm·stoocl what lrn did was wrong and is sorry. 
'Bizzy Bone' acquitted of charges 
COLUMBUS 
Jurors who look lPss than an hour to an111i1 a (;rammy Award-winning rnpp1\r or assault ancl disordt•rly cnndtwt chargns said t!wy \Wr1• r"n with too many qtwsiions aftnr l'our days of tPstimony. Among other things, th1•y wondPrPd why only rapper Bizzy Borw was drnrgPd wlwn tnstimony shownd lwo of his bodyguards WPI'!' involved in a scul'lll' with .i barlwr collPge sludm1t. juror Holll'rl lladcliffl' said Monday. Bone's real 11a11w is Bryon McCanP. I!e's a soloist with llw rap group B111w Thugs-N-1 larmony. Tlw chari.ws against Mt'Ca1w, 22. stmnnrncl from an allPgn alLPrcation with Tnrrancci Ilarden, 2h. last Sq>l. If1 at IIH' llair Experts Ba.rlmr Sl'.hool. Trial lrstimony from both sides said 1lardPn was manhandltid in llw barbor col­lc•gt• slairwPII hy tlw two bodyguards. 
Man moves finger on freshly 
transplanted hand 
LOUISVILLE 
Thi' man who rPcPivtid tlw f'irsl hand lra11splanl in tlw Unitnd Statns movnd a lin­gPr 011 TuPsday. and doctors said them are no signs of' n•jcction or infodion. "lfis hand looks good," said Dr. Warren Breidenbach, h•ad surg,•on for the learn that transplanted a hand lo Matllww Scoll's lt\ft wrist on Monday. "WP arc very cautious and not Pn<·ouraging movPninnt at this point. Controllnd motion or the lingers will begin sonwtimc in the tmxl f'ew days to one wock." This W<'t\k Scott traded a metal-and-plastic prostlwsis for a human hand -the l'irst transplant of its kind pnrformnd in the Unilcd SlaLPs. Scott, :u, lost his dominant hand in the• Pxpl11sion ol' an M-80, a pownr­ful and illcigal lirncracknr, on !)pc, 23, 1985. 
S&I' 500: {'omposile 
1264.80 Volume:

9312.74 0.70 727,1100,000 VOLUME LEADERS 

,QHIE :Ui;;:llil )I i;;11rm1 I i;;l,llllilli 11,i;:1 nu.vies COiii' IU ••v ·U.IJ -1,.u u.ooo 
C'ONP.I.Q COMll-(1"!'1.1' CPO +.5. 62 +2. f.:l5 0.311 Ct'fIGIIOUP INC C •l.ll . l. 7'50 5t,l:!I? ICICJ[l8iOM ffBOC KC. -9. 76 -a.ooo h,000 UCE~ OMt.lNS •ot .,5. ,i -t"l'.'J3S 1,1.u .._'1"6T co11, T .. ) .13 -2.au ec.n1 111.1.L~OUTK C'OIIP . 10. 59 u.soo 41,000 INTL BUI KAClfIU UM +2. 0'7 +l. '150 llH.H LUCIMT TICH INC LO +7 .lS .,. ,s,co lOSl,51::1
..... ..... ..,... 
UH -U.18 -l.175 1..9375 
¦ UNITED STATES 

Pope compares abortion to slavery 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
ST. LOUIS 
Pope John Paul II arrived in lhe lwarlland Tuesday for a :~O-hour visit and likcmed i\mrrica:s disputP over abor­tion and nulhauasia to tlw bilt(•r l1•gal battle over slav­ery on the evn nf Lim Civil War. 
"AmPrica f'acns a similar tinw of trial." 1111 said. 
l'rcsidnn1 Clinton and llrn firsl lady joirrnd 500 familins in a National Guard hangar at Lambert !\irporl to greet tho popn on his seventh papal trip to lhn United Slates..John Paul rlew in from Mexico City after a tri­umphanl, fivo-day visit. 
Tho pope later met pri­vat(ily with thn president and was lo attend a youth rally 20.000-peoplc strong at thn Kiel Ccntnr on Tuesday night. On Wednesday, he is scheduled to celebrate a Mass bd'orn l 04,000 pnople al the Trans World Dome. 
"We welcome you back to America," Lim president told tl111 pontiff. "For 20 years you have challongcd us to think of life not in terms of what Wt! acquire for our­solves but what we give of' ourselves.... We honor you f'or standing for human dig­nity and human rights." 
The\ president quoted a Polish phrase that means, "May you live a hundred 

body stooped over his text. pope said, that dnclarnd "an sidn the boundarins of lngal 
years and milrn." 

Still, his voice was firm as he m1lire class of human bnings protoction."
By mid-morning thousands urged Americans to reach -people of African descent Tim popn is also a leadingof young peoplr, had circled for a higher moral vision. -outside the boundarins of opponent of capital punish­

the Gateway i\rch before 

I le reminded Americans of the national community and nrnnt and has intnrvencd in walking ln Urn Kiel Center the Dred Scott case, lried in tho Constitution's prolt~c­snvernl cases in the Unitml and the Papal Plaza nearby. 
St. Louis' Old Courthouse. tion." States. Missouri's Suprnmc
"Wt• lovci Jesus, yes we do! 

Scott, a slave purchased in "Today," tlm pope went on, Court, without 1ixplanalion,
We love you Jr,sus, how 

1833 by an i\rmy surgeon "the conflict is between a postponnd an nxecution that 
about you?" youth groups 

stationed near St. Louis, culture that al'lirms, cherish­was to have taknn place
shouted back and forth. 

sued for his freedom. Living os, and celebrates the gift of whiln the pope was in town. 
While the crowd was in a free state, he said, madn lifo, and a culture that seeks Papal spokesman Joaquineuphoric, the 78-year-old 

him a free man. to declare entire groups of Navarro-Valls called the 
pope's opnning message to 

In 1857 the U.S. Supreme human beings -the unborn, postponerrrnnt "a mockery."
the American people was 

Court ruled, in effect, that the terminally ill, llrn handi­During previous visits, the more somber. llis arm shook slaves were property and not capped, and others consid­pope has spoken against 
as he held Urn lectern, his 

citizens -a decision, the ered 'unuseful' -to be out-materialism. 

¦ COLOMBIA 

Deadly earthquake stuns villagers 
AssOCl/\'fED PRESS 
AHMENIA 
The death toll from the worst earthquake to hit Colombia in more than a centllry surpassed .1,000 ~f1 Tuesday as survivors anxiQU$ly, awaited roli<'f supplios and prayed for signs of life under the rubble. Those hop1~s were dashed again and 
again. 
Monday's 6-magnitudc earthquake clevustated cities and villages across wrn;torn Colomhia, a VIt$t Andea.n tor• rain \Vhcrn much of the world's cof­fee is grown. The temblor shook buildings as far mvay as the capital. Bogota, 140 miles from tho opicontor. 
A small aftershock shook the region Tuei:;day afternoon. causing little damage but sending pani1;ko(f resi­dents running into the rubble-littered streei.s. It was one of' about 15 afle.r~ shocks. 
.. 
Wilh hundreds of peoplP believed still buried bcnoa.th tho rubble, may­hem reigned Tuesduy in the streets of Armenia. a city of300,000. 
Reswe teams in Armenia had recovered about 650 bodies hy noon, 
· .ind relief\-v,9rkJ1rs c,stimated the doath toll for all of wcstMn Colombia would eventually total more than 2,000. 
Two-thirds of the cily's buildings 
. worn rendered uninhabitable. People wandered about desperately looking f'or relatives, There was no elet·.tricity ur running Watc{ in most of the city, and food was in .dan~erously short supply. An estimated 180,000 pf'ople wen~ Jell homcloss in Armenia alono. Coffins havo become a coveted commodity. . "I've heenJQoking for J'lve coffins for relatiVesSfnce 8 o'clock this mQrning and J couldn't find any, so we're going to have to bury them in 

plastic.'' said :w-year-nld Dk~go Buiz, who lost his grandmothor, a sister and three nieces. 
Rescue workers scrambled to evac­uato thB thousands of injured and to locate survivors. i\t the city's small ,iirport, 1unbulances arrived every 15 minutes with more victims, who wern airliftc cl to hospitals in Bogota, Medellin and Cali. 
"There is a danger or epid,miics. because W<' have more than 200 bod­ies and we have no rel'rignrated trucks," said Carlos Gilhtirto Giraldo, a top Colombian Red Cross official. 
Two members of Colombia's pro­l'essional soccer dub Alletico Quindio -Diego Mont(lnngro and Huben Biurret, both from Argentina -were found dead. Witnesses said the two were holding onto llctch othor in tlrn ruins of a downtown hotel. Another four players aro foarcd dead. 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 27, 1999 
Big Ten 
continued from page 1 
compliance with the Western Conference rules and applied for ad.mission again. Once again, the conference turned them down. 
Over the years. the conference Look in Indiana and Iowa and changed its name to the Big Nine. In 1908, Michigan with­drew due to a rules dispute with the conference board. Notre Dame applied for admission a third time, and was again reject­ed, prompting Father Crumley, the chairman of the athletic board at the time, to claim that the Big Ten's battle to keep Notre Dame out was being "fought on theological rather than athletic grounds." 
Crumley may have indeed bPen correct. It was well-known the Western Conference showed disrespect for Catholic higher education and its emphasis on an open admission policy and religious training. There was also ovidence that the confcr­euce scoffed that a faculty board, run mostly by priPsts, could control a school's intercol­legiate athletics program. 
But ironically. the Big Nine's administrators-failed to under­stand that Notre Dame's hierar­chy worked very well and helped to insulate it from many of the athletic abuses that were prevalent in several Big Nine schools. But, as Sperber believes, the Western Conference's 1908 rejection of' 'iotre Dame set the course of the school's athletic program. 
"Up to that point, the rans of college football were mainly alumni," he says. "By being forced to go national, with the media supporting them and their teams winning, the middle class, ethnic groups and people unable to afford collPge bPgan to support Notre Dame." 
LWI!\iG TIIE F0LNDATION 

,When !\otre Dame hired Jesse Ilarper as head football coach in 1912, one of his main goals was to improve the school's relations with the Big Nine. While he was able to accomplish many things, such as a major upset over Army in 1913 and subsequently creating rivalries with other national powerhouses, bringing Notre Dame into the conference wasn't in the cards. 
In 1913, the growth of the stu­dent body plus the fact that the football program made a profit for the first time brought the administration to decide once again to apply for admission. Harper touted his athletic pro­gram, calling it "the logical suc­cessor to Michigan." However, at the conference's annual meeting, the group again rebuffed Notre Dame. 
This decision influenced Notre Dame to look elsewhere to improve its reputation. ln the coming years, the relationship with the Big Nine's grew more antagonistic. 
By 1917. Harper had become increasingly frustrated, partially because of the possibility that the next foothall season would be canceled because of America's entry into the first World War. But most of his aggravation was due to the fact that he had not appreciably improved the school's relations with the Big Nine. With Michigan's re-entrance that year, the conference was renamed the Big Ten. Harper irnd conta-eted severa-1 faculty representatives from the mem­ber schools to gauge the possi­bilities of admission, After he received strong negative reac­tions, he decided to retire to his home in Kansas. According to Sperber, however, the confer­ence had its own reasons to 
rebuff the university. 
"There was a lot of anti­Catholic sentiment at that time. The Ku Klux Klan basically ran the state of Indiana. The state legislators didn't want Notre Dame, a Catholic school to join the Big Ten," Sperber wrote. 
As it turned out, Harper could not have picked a more logical successor for the football pro­gram: Knute Rockne. 
THE ROCKNE YEARS 
After producing a top-notch football team, Rockne's next goal was to schedule Big Ten games. He had more success than his predecessor and added Indiana and Purdue to his schedule, but the other confer­ence mPmbers more or less snubbed his overtures. With the Big Ten coaches, it was no longer Notre Dame's rumored educational standards but the team's athletic might. 
"I don't blame them for not putting me on their schedules. If I were in their shoes, I would have done the same thing," Rockne later remarked. 
In l 919 he recorded a perfoct 9-0 season. By 1924, Rockne and the Four Horsemen earned a 10-0 record and their first national championship. Thanks to the work of Grantland Rice and other sportswriters, Notre Dame football was propPlled to national prominence. 
8y the fall of 1926, the admin­istration decided to apply for admission a fifth time. Notre Dame tightened the screws on its athletic rules while Hockne corresponded with Harper on what strategies he might employ to seek membership. The coach even made a goodwill tour, stop­ping by each of the member schools in the hopP of engender­ing support While some schools -most notably Michigan and Chicago -were decisively nega­tive about the proposal, most other members seemed fairly receptive to Rockne. 
As it turned out, the Big Ten schools voted 6-4 not lo enlarge the conference, sidestepping the issue. The leaders of the schools suggested that the Catholic school make a formal applica­tion again in December. The school was on its best behavior throughout the fall of 1926, but the Big Ten, led by Michigan, once again vetoed the change. 
"At that point, Notre Dame had become more like a Big Ten school." Sperber noted. "They had started graduate courses, and they had their college of business. The argument [of the Big Ten] that 'you're not like us' went less and less. But they didn't understand that the CSC is different from other Catholic orders. Still, it was really the anti-Catholic element." 
Though this did put an end to Notre Dame's acceptance bids, it did not end the Big Ten's unwelcome involvement in the University's affairs. In the 1929 championship season, the con­ference's faculty board attempt­ed to prevent Wisconsin from playing thP Irish at Soldier Field. saying the game had too much "commercialism." Rockne saw through this ploy, writing to the Wisconsin authorities that "the Big Ten Faculty Committee [wants to] make a show of us in public by denying us permis­sion," and the game was played in Chicago anyway. 
While the Big Ten faculty board had failed in that attempt, it proved to be all too successful the next year around. In 1930, the president of Northwestern suggested that the NU-Notre Dame game be moved from 48,000-seat Dyche Stadium to 120,000-seat Soldier Field with the extra gate rncPipts going to "poor relief." However, in one of the most vicious and antagonis­tic actions between the Big Ten and Notre Dame, the conference invoked a little-known rule mandating that games "cannot be transferred from a home gridiron to a field within a radius of 100 miles of another Big Ten university," which, in this case, was the University of Chicago. This rule was originally intended to prevent the two games from hurting each oth­ers' ticket sales. Even though Chicago was scheduled to play at Michigan, the rule forced the cancellation of the Notre Dame game, prompting MidwPstern sportswriters to write searing condemnations against the con­ferencP. 

OVERCOMING OBSTACLES 
Following the Soldier Field incident, the Big Ten's antago­nism with Notre Dame began to subside. There were still some lesser incidents, and the ten­sions between the two parties still existed, but actions to com­plement these emotions never materialized. 
When Father John O'llara became vice president of the University, he was discouraged by the conference's condescen­sion towards the school, and began a "one-upmanship" ath­letic policy. attempting to raise Notre Dame's athletic standards beyond those of the conference. Indeed, O'Hara moved well beyond the Big Ten and the NCAA when he created a rule that limited a player's eligibility to eight semesters. 
Notre Dame continued to rise and overcame obstacles to become one of the premiere C football schools in the country. One question remains: If Notre Dame had been accepted into the Big Ten, would it have achieved the same success'? Accordfn,g !o Sperber, the answer 1s No . 
"Jt would not haw~ been nearly as prosperous," he says. "Up until the 1920s, Notre Dame received most of its students from the Midwest. Aller that. it exploded. With the national fame, it increased terrifically. It was the defining moment in its history. 
"I personally don't want Notre Dame to join the Big Ten. I like the tradition. I liko the games against USC, Army and Navy. If it happens, that will all havo to go," 


03CLUB TING 
Wednesday, January ~7tL 
1 p.m. Jgrdan Auditorium 
We w-ill discuss : Of/icer Election§, the Spring Trip andtLe Finance Foru.-n 

r 
-»: / • 
l f(tr -' 

;,· 1: ;1 nnJF,7
There's N:o 
.....,,. 

' 
When you need your copies dci_ne in a hurry, bring your originals to The Copy Shop in the LaFortune Student Center. We pride ourselves in offering the best quality, the friendliest service, and the most reasonable prices in the area. No one else can even come close! Come by today and get your copies done right. 
Copyright 1999 • Alf Rights Reserved 

COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
We1re the Original When it Comes to 
Fast Copies. 
High-Speed Copies • Color Copies 
Binding • Laminating • Fax NEW Desktop Publishing Service NEW Resumes • Newletters • Flyers Brochures • Bwsiness Cards Table Tents & More! 
Quality Copies, 
Quickly!'M 

FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY!!! 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 

r,tgNOTA8C1JTUatW5"1HAT
/;.~~~ 
MAYOleU4YNOTHAVE EMA­
I.CTM5R&MINP '!OU 
NA7l;l?fiifJM A PRIVAJeOW
ovaAGAIN-7H/9 
Off!C£ ~-HAl/.li/4V/ ITS 
71?/Ai., 15 NO'fA8(J(JTsexI 
NOTA80UT~UNIJIJ770NtP et0!/51;, 7Jlf:37VfJ5L£[?HAIK,~
/ f 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
M?,IT5 Gt'Xt?l}{~ A80UT ~[,M? PICTlf/<t3!3 CF
OTHCR.. 
JH!NG5/ l<l/11/TITS /lfJT 
I 
MOI/T.I 
IU 
GAY. 
I 

¦ auoTE OF THE DAY 
, Jalways keep a stimulant handy in case I see a 
snake ­ which I also keep  
handy.'  
-W.C. Fields  

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 27, 1999-----------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Nnrnr D11~1t·. OH·ll.E: l'.0. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46'i56 (219) 631-7471 
~AINT MARY'~, )1nn: .l0') I l.t!lf:;ar, Notre Dame, lN 46556 (219) 284•5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
flJITOR·IN•Cllll·P I leather Coch MANA<,1N1; l·mroR Jl!ISINfSS MANALFR llrian Rcind1,1lcr Kyle Carlin 
"'·"'r~NT MANA<;JN<; Enrro11 fk:1thcr f\1:h.K('i,ti(" 
Ni.·w, Em ron . .. Mididlc f..:rup;t Ar>VERTISINC MANAC:En.. ...firran Lutl. 
V11.w1•01Nr EunoH. .......EJuarJo I.lull AI> Dt.Sl<,N MANAGIJI .....,, ................. Brm lfoda, 
51•0H1S EDI UJft ...... ,. ...... ,. ..... K.uhlcen I.ope, SYSTEMS M"NAGtH ..................J-.lichad Brouill« 
St:1.Nr. [1>1 IORS... . .........S.u.,h llyl,g Crn,rnrn,1.1•,1< ..................................... Dave Rogcro 
Kri~ri Klir<id1 Wm l\1JMIN1<·111uo11 .......................Allison Krill:i 
SA1Nr MMtV's l'.OIIOM .... M. Sh""""" Rva11 GIIAl'IIICS Etll'IOk ...............................l'<tc Cilclb , 
P11orn EmroR ....... Kevin Di11m 
Iht' {)hu:~rvcr i, the-iru.lcpcrult-111 nc-wsp.1pcr pubti,h~°'t liy thC' ~tULICnbi of,_he Uni,ver!iolty of Nnttc _l)ame dtt Lac and ~.um M.iry\ ('.ul.lct,:. It 1loc, 1ml nccc...'ianly rdlrd the pulic1c~ of the .a<lm11uMr:1.uor1 ofcnhcr i01tttturm11, The news (li r1:pt11tl'll "'' u, unild)' .u1d ub1n:uvcl>· a., p11,!!i1hlc-. Ut1"1t;1\a.! a.lit1mah rcprc.~c:m the.-npinion ofthe maJ(lriry oftht l·,!1111Mn-( Jud~ M,1n,1j;!it1~ i·tliu1r, /\.!,t1i\t;m1 M.,u1agintt EJitur 11.11d dt"flartmcnt al.uori,.. l:111nmemu.rics, letter~ aml .,.,,lunm~ ptt"\C'l\l rht: v•C'\\i' nl ,hL' .tuthur,, ,m,i not Ol'l.:C~~.trily rho~c <Jf ·1·ht• ( )h!lcrver. Vicwr,oin,_~J>.lCC is ava1l:1hk to .t.lJ mt"ml'lt'r\ of 1ht• Norn:.-J)Jmc/~.um M.trv·~ wnummily :ind m .UI h::1Ucr., Tht' tr<'C cxprei.sion oi vJryiug upU1iom throut;h lc11'-''' ii cnciu;r,1Krti. 
<:onm1in11, The Obmver 

Editor-in-( :hicf Ma11;1gin~ l·'.ditor/A:..~i.,tJI\I i\1F Nrwo,/Ph11t11 SpMb 
SL:cnc/Saim M:uy·~ 1).ty bluor/V1rwpoitu ( )Jfo.:c-M.10:1gcr/Cicncr.d luform.uion 
¦ LIFE AT NO 
Praying for the Poor by Name 
Who prays for the poor by name'? Ten years ago, I was a math teacher for a Milwaukee GED {General Equivalcncy Diploma) program. Sorne students had dropp,\d nut allcr bncnming tmmage moth-
Mel Tardy 

Prs or falling prny to drugs. Others had 
quit high school lwcause of dangerous gang warfare. Many couldn't recall a sin­gin [(ladwr (or parnn0 who had believed in tlwir ability lo succeed. Their neighbor­
hoods wrwc poor and their spirits were 
poorPr. 
llnw clid limy gN to nm? True, some rouldn'l rollrn:t Lhnir AFDC chock without proofthal they wm·1! either in school or srn•king mnployrm'llt. Most, hnwnver, had tasU•d tlui nml world and knew they would 111wnr make it out of tlrn gutllw -let alone gnt a job al '\1r.Donald 's -without a high school diploma. 
Still. it took nm four weeks lo focus K1\mlall, tlw class clown. Ilallelujah, tl11111gh! For two days, lw actually learned somPlhing' Tlrnn. pool'. lw stopµnd com­ing. I suspncl foar o/' lhP unknown !i.e. SllffPss'?l Orw wonders: what if' someone had llwught to lc!sl him for A.D.D.'? Convnrsdy, C@rg1• (a.k.a. "(;od's gift to wor111•n") q11iddy drnngt\d whPn hn saw lPadwrs inlt!rPSlPd in him. Then, the t1111.hinkahl1\ ... could Im, like me, also gradual!• from Notrn Danw'!! Ohhhh. did lw get motivated! llis curiosity 1ml us bnvond (;l•:t> boundarins, into Trigononwtry! Trul', (;porgn rnwnr got to NU. hut II(' did gPt his CED and, I bdinve, w1•11t on to coll,ign. (;oorge shot for the 11111011 11ml hit a slar 
My lwart. how1w1·r. sank for Barry. I l'P('.illl lhat Barry's t\yns 11()Vllr rose, to rmint mine when he spoke. My most intelligent and polite student, a misdemeanor and prison time had completely stolen his self­confidence and esteem. Barry didn't get his GED during my tenure, but I pray that he did eventually. Cardell, though. was dif­ferent; so happy to be "gettin' that paper" that he beamed with a perpetual grin (dis­tinctive in that he lacked one front tooth.) 
G.l 1-4542'  Bustn""·' Office  631-5313  
6.i 1-4~4 I  Advcrri,ing  &31-6900/8840  
(d I-'BB  Sy,t<rn.,  631·88j9  
6.>l •454.'1  hix  • 6.'11-6927  
6j 1.4540  Viewpoiur l:>M,ul  Vicwpoinr.1@nd.edu  
!1.l 1 ·5.'l(U  Ad E-Mail  ob~crvcr@darwii,'1.cc.nd.cdu  
6Jl ·7471  New, E-Mail  ob.scrvcr.ob:snews. l@'n<l.edu  

They cravnd new lives, motivated by daily stories of friends being shot or news that peer pressure or relationship prob­lems had forced another student to quit. I found myself praying daily for 
each of them, wondering if he knew personally. MLK they would live to see it was the same way, start­happm1. You would ing in his daddy's have, too ... had you church long before an known them. assassin cut short 
Eventually, I his grandiose plans sought other solu­for a "Poor tions ... economic 
People's solutions. Yet, 
Campaign." when I arrived at 
Jesus, of course, ND for MBA 
gained credibility school, it was as 
by daily breaking if a fim was burn­
bread with the ing that no one on poor for whom he campus knew prayed. about!. Them existed I believe that when a surreal peace here; we pray in anonymous happy, healthy people, fashion for the poor, it is more concerned about easier to brush them off. waking up national champions When we, instead, pray for 
than waking up aliv11. I shook my head often ... had I traveled lo another world? I low could I keep from going to sleep mysetrt 
To help, I brought with me two photos; memnntos which I still keep nearby. The lirst, of Knndall. reminds me that the fires are still burning, even if the smoke never reaclrns ND. The second photo. of Cardell with his broad, toothy grin, holding up his GED certificate, reminds me that th11re is hope, ifwe pray unceasingly and never give up or turn away. 
That's why I admire people like Gerrie <;riflin. a local nurso who founded Slice of Lifo for African American youth; Lou Nanni. an ND grad who oversees our local Sheller for the Homeless; Brother Bill Tomes, an ND grad who helps Chicago gang members strive for lives between deadly bullets; and Capt. Donald Weihs, the Marquette grad who founded the above GED program. Most of all, I admire my mother, JoAnne Tardy, a former teacher who ran that GED program for years and still prays nightly rosaries (yes nightly) for students and DOZENS of oth­ers -by name. 
Look at Malcolm X, who's ministry 
b11gan with hustlers, pimps, dope dealers 
and number runners -people 
them by name, we offer up a powerful prayer and arc less likely to forget those for whom we pray, even adrift the waves of our middle-class routines. 
The question, then, is, how does one begin'? Who, Notre Dame, can pray for the poor by name? The answer is easy: one who knows them. 
Mel Tardy, ND '86, '90 is an Academic Advisor with the First Year ofStudies. I !is column runs every other Wednesday and he can be reached by e-mail al tardy. l@nd.edu 
The view:, expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily /.hose ofThe Observer. 

¦ LETTER ro THE EDITOR 
Henry Hyde Dismissed 
No matter how one views the pres­idential impeachment trial. anyone with a grasp of the English language would be appalled by a statement Representative Henry Hyde made before the Senate as he argued that the case against the President should not be dismissed. lie said he looked up the word dismissed in a thesaurus and l'ound lhal it means "to ignore, disregard, noglect, or brush off." Therefore, he did not want the Senate to disregard or brush off the case against the President. The problem is, as most educated people know, that a the­saurus dons not define words but merely provides a !isl of related words. (A dictionary defines words.) 
Ilydc's error can be easily demon­strated. If onc of my students at Saint Mary's raises her hand and asks if she may leave the room because she is ill, I might tell her, "Very well, you are dismissed early." Have I then ignored, ncgler,tod, dis­regarded, or brushed hfH' off'? Quite the contrary. The word dismiss means (among other things) to reject a claim -something many Americans wish would happen in tlrn Senate, pronto. 
Perhaps such a verbal gaffe is not surprising, coming from the mouth of a politician who dismissed an adulterous affair in his 40s as "a youthful indiscretion." 
Ted Billy Associate Professor of English English Dcpamncnt Saint Mary's College Of"fice phone #284-4477 I lomc phone #271-9050 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8--------------------------
----------------Wednesday, January 27, 1999 
¦ OPEN LETTER TO N<HRE DAME'S BOARD OF TRUSTEES 
Big Ten Means Loss of Catholic Mission, 
Quality of Undergraduate Education 
·ew years ago bold-faced signs far exceflding those provided by tuition appeared mysteriously at the por-and private donations -resources typi­als of the University announcing cally solicited from government and com­entry to "The University of Notre Dame: A mercial enterprise. Among advrwsr conse­
Catholic Research University." When the quences of this arrangement are an exces­signs disappeared just as mysteriously a sive amount of time and effort spent in few weeks later, the \.videspread suspicion preparation of grant proposals and was that the message had been deemed 
reports, along with the subordination of impolitic by responsible administrators, research efforts to interests often having but not erroneous. For the past 20 years more to do with commercial profit than or morP, the Universitv has been recruit­with unbiased scholarship. Both effects 
ing faculty and appointing academic detract from sound education and the dis­administrators for their ability to enhance semination ofknowlodgo. its reputation as a research institution. A recent editorial in the South Bend One indication that this recruiting has met Tribune lDec. 27. 1998) cited Stanford its aims came with the lopsided vote of the 
and Northwestern as universities that have successfully 

Faculty Senate in favor ofjoining forces combined specialimd with the Big Ten. In postgraduate view of the pr<'vailing research and elfoc­
Kenneth M. 
conception that a tive undergraduate vote for the Big ien teaching. Whatever is a vote endorsing one thinks of this an increased empha­
choice of examples, sis on research, it is 
Sayre 
the fact remains that ________________ neither of these insti­no surprise that a tutions (nor any majority of faculty 
who came to the Cniversity expecting to other within the Big Ten) has religious advance their ovin research interests commitments. In particular, neither is a would favor that move. Catholic university. And it might well be 
Weighing in on the other side of the argued that Notre Dame's Catholic com­issue are numerous "voteless" faculty and mitment provides its primary rationale for alumni (see the South Bend Tribune arti­not aligning itself with the specialized cle of Jan. 10) who fear that making the research interests represented by the Big 
University's commitment to research "offi­Ten. cial" by joining the Big Ten would result in What is it to be a Catholic university? further erosion of its undergraduate pro­Some might say having a certain percent­grams. Despite repeated assurances from age of Catholic faculty or students. or 
academic administrators that this will not being associated with a religious order, or happen, there are several well-document­having a Catholic president. But more sig­ed trends in education today that suggest nificant than any of these, surely, is the the outcome might be beyond their con­way the university conceives its mission. 
trol. One stems from the fact that schools What makes a university genuinely known for their emphasis on research Catholic is the service it renders to the 
attract faculty and graduate students with Catholic community at large and the con­specialized interests. Given the research tribution it makes to the general culture 
preoccupations of the on behalf of that community. 
faculty, undergraduate Service to the Catholic courses in such institu­'GIVENTHE RESEARCH community can take 
tions tend to be staffed many forms. In its found­
PREOCCUPATIONS OF 
primarily by graduate ing years, Notre Dame THE FACULTY, UNDERGRADU-provided educational 
students who have lit­
tle experience and ATE COURSES IN SUCH INSTI-opportunities to children 
often less interest in of immigrants who had 
llJTIONS [RESEARCH UNIVER-limited access to otherteaching at that level. 
This dynamic is not SITIFS] TEND TO BE STAFFED institutions. During the 
conducive to sound PRIMARILY BY GRADUATE STU-first half of this century 
undergraduate educa­Notre Dame, with its leg­tion. DENTS WHO HAVE UTILE endary football program, Another cautionary provided a rallying point 
EXPERIENCE AND OTTEN LFSS 
trend has to do with for minorities (the "sub­
the emphasis on the INTEREST IN TEACHING AT way alumni") trying to 
sciences over the THAT LEVEL. THIS DYNAMIC IS find identity in the popu­
humanities in most lar culture of the day. 
major research uni-NOT CONDUCIVE TO SOUND More recently, through 
versities. Schools in UNDERGRADUATE IDUCA-its burgeoning profes­sional schools, it has pro-
competition for visibili-TION.' 
ty as centers of vided entry for talented 
research are under young Catholic men and 
pressure to channel women into the power­
their resources in the direction of elabo­structures of contemporary society. And rately equipped laboratories rather than throughout the century Notre Dame has low-tech oflice anJ classroom spaces. served as a seat of learning upon which Specific featurns of this trend are exam­the Catholic community can rely for moral ined in a recent essay published in support, scholarly advice and the liberal I larvard Magazine ("The Market-Moue! education of its children. University: Humanities in the Age of A thriving Catholic university will also 
Money," May-June 1998). Among the find­strive to make its spiritual and intellectual 
ings cited in this report are that, no mat­resources available on a nonsectarian 
ter what criteria are applied -"majors, basis. It docs this in part by the participa­
salaries, graduatP programs ... , standard­tion of it.,; executive officers in national 
ized test scores -the results come back affairs, such as contributing to the coun­
the same. The humanities' vital signs arc try's progress in civil rights and educa­
poor." Despite what they say in their tional policy. It does this also through pro­
brochures, it might be taken as a general grams like the Joan R. Kroc Peace 
rule that institutions with faltering pro­Institute and the Reilly Center for Science, 
grams in the humanities are places where Technology and Values. Perhaps most sig­broadly-based undergraduate education is nificantly, however, it does this by sending not likely to flourish. its graduates out into the world with a Also relevant is the fact that research in sensitivity to thr value-issues of the day, 
the physical sciences is many times more and with the skills and resources needed 
expensive to conduct than research at a to confront those issues effoctively and 
comparable level in the humanities and thereby to contribute to the healing of the 
social sciences. Universities supporting society in which they live. 
"cutting edge" research programs In what respects does contemporary 
inevitably rely upon financial resources society need healing'? v\'hile no reflective person would be hard pressed to come up with a list of urgent social problems ­distribution of wealth, race relations, morality in government and so forth ­there arc some that seem to have reached 
, crisis-proportion. For one, industrial tech­nology has wreaked such havoc upon the environment that human lil'e as we know it is widely recognized to be at risk. For another, electronic technology has pro­duced an arrav of visual "entertainments" that have reduced the popular culturn in which our children's charactnrs are mold­ed to new lows of vulgarity and violence. For yet another. despite its many benelit.s, biological technology is well on its way to devising gene-manipulation techniques capable of producing living creatures ­including human.beings -tailor-made for self-serving human purposes. As John Paul II has warned, reflect­ing on technological develop­ther downgraded. 
The upshot of these considerations is nut that Notre Dame ought to shut down its rnsearch laboratories, or that it ought to de-emphasize science in favor of the humanities or graduate training in favor of undergraduate. It is essential to bear in mind that a decision against giving further prominence to a particular kind or research by joining the Big T(m -the kind that is narrowly focused, requires expensive equipment, promises quick technological payoffs, and increases indebtedness to industry and government -will not compromise the kind or schol­arship and learning by which Notre Dame has distinguished itself in the past. Then\ is a desperate ne(id in this country for gradual.<) programs that produce well­trained researchers of broad vision who 
are genuine mas­
ters or their fields, 

'NOTRE DAME CAN
ments of these sorts (Fides et and who are also 
EITHER STAND BY THE
Hatio;scc. 81 ). if "technology committed to is not ordered to something excellence in 
COURAGE OF ITS CONVIC-
greater than a merely utili­teaching. In previ­
TIONS, DEFINING EXCEllENCE
tarian end, then it could ous decades, Notre soon ... become potential IN ITS OWN TERMS AND SET-Dame was widely destroyer of the hmnan known for several 
TING ITS OWN STANDARDS
race." departments that 
The unhappy fact we need BASED ON ITS TRADITIONAL were among the to face at this juncture is MISSION AS A CATHOLIC best in the country, that the technological exper-and perhaps even tise that lies behind these INSTITIITION OF HIGHER the very best, in crises all too often goes providing this sort
LEARNING, OR IT CAN SCRAM­
hand-in-hand with the spe­of training. It may 
BLE TO MEET THE STANDARDS
cialized knowledge generat­not be too late to ed in our leading research SET BY OTHER INSTITUTIONS recommit ourselves universities. And none of to producing schol­
these problems will be allevi-WITH OTHER AND QUITE DIF-ars of this mold. ated by more specialized FERENT MISSIONS.' The academic ben­
knowledge of the same sort. For the problems in question are not technical in nature. Our quandary in these and many similar cases is that our technological know-how has far exceeded our ability to apply it wisely. 
What human society needs more than anything else as we move into the 21st Century is a concentrated effort by our spiritual and intellectual leadership to come up with the wisdom that \.viii pre­serve the technologically obsessed culture in which we live from self-destruction. Where that wisdom v.ill come from is far from clear. But there is no more likely source than from institutions of higher learning like Notre Dame that combine spiritual resources of proven vitality with the best of current scholarship and learn­ing. We must take seriously the possibility that the most responsible way to pursue our Catholic mission today is to do our best to help provide the spiritual and intel­lectual guidance needed to hold human culture intact through these times of social peril. Notre Dame, of course, cannot do this by itself. But with proper leadership, it can make a significant contribution. 
The basic question to be faced by the Board of Trustees in its upcoming meeting is how, and to what extent, its Catholic mission would be served if Notre Dame were to commit itself officially to the kind ofspecialized research that binds the Big Ten together academically. Suppose Notre Dame were to join the Big TPn, become a member of the American Association of Universities, move up a few notches from its present ranking of 164th among American universities in terms of "research and development expenditures" (according to the South Bend Tribune of' January J8, 1999), and gain a few million dollars in the process to offset its probable loss of football revenues. Who is likely to benefit? Neither the Catholic community nor society at large in any predictable way. Additional funding from government and industry would enable the Cnivcrsity to build more buildings and to hire more specialists to staff them. But given the interaction sketched above between spe­cialized research and more broadly-based scholarship and teaching, it seems likely that these latter activities would be fur­efits of joining the 
Big Ten, on the other hand, would involve trading the potential to be the top university of this farseeing sort for the opportunity to become known as a middling university of quite a different kind. 
The type of research to which Notre Dame ought to recommit itself is integra­tive rather than specialized, a form of inquiry that aims at broad understanding rather than technical know-how, and that is undertaken in full view of its social con­sequences. More importanUy, it is the kind of research most likely to enable the University to respond creatively to the cul­tural crises that appear to have been pre­cipitated, at least in part, by the emphasis of other research universities on high-pro­file "cutting-edge" inquiry during the past several decades. 
To put it in a nutshell, what Notre Dame ought to encourage as a Catholic universi­ty is an approach to scholarship guided by "a unified and organic vision of knowl­edge," the achievement of which John Paul II strongly affirms to be "one of the tasks which Christian thought will have to take up through the next millennium ... " (Fides et Ilalio, sec. 85). It seems apparent that the money-driven research interests that would be encouraged by membership in the Big Ten have little in common with this approach. 
Notre Dame can either stand by the courage of its convictions, delining excel­lence in its own terms and setting its own standards based on its traditional mission as a Catholic institution of higher learning, or it can scramble to meet the standards set by other institutions with other and quite dilTenmt missions. If' a majority of the Board of Trustees agrnes with the for­mer cours(~, Notre Dame will avoid enter­ing the new millennium beholden to the goals of these other institutions. 
Kenneth Sayre is a professor in the Philosophy Department. lie has taught at Notre Dame for 40 years, during which he has published 16 books and over 50 schol­arly articles. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 27, 1999-----------------
--------------------------page9 
¦ LIKE ARROWS IN THE HANO OF A WARRIOR 
A Matter ofLife and Death 
Monday through Friday, at 7:30 in the morning, a group of' studenls leavr.s l'rom Library Circle and goes t.o a 1marby abortion clinic to pray thr Hosary, prnu:nl'ully, respm:tf'ully. They rnnw back in limn for the earlir.st dassr.s. These studm1ts dearly show that wlwn a matlr.r or lifo and death is at stake, Pvon slP11p doPs not have prcr.1•d1!nC1!. 
h>r a gmrnration what sonm call murcl1•r and sonrn call a choice has hP1Hl legal in this country. Does this mattn to us'! 1'.flr.r all, all that read this column itl"I! ckarly not directly affPclml by abortion: you art! not a 1'1•tus. Y1•t abortion is TIIE issuP of our ag,:. Abortion goes to the core of what w,• mnan by human bning, what. we nwan by human rights and human f'rPPdom. what w,• nwan by llw Law of" ( ;od. II" you an· a pnrson. you should Cill'f). 
To show you this, notn what tlm U.S. Suprnnw cimrt said in tlw famous "mystery daus1)," of l'lmrncd l'an~nthood v. Casny, l1Ni. "At the Iwart or lib1•rty is the right to c.11:line orw's own concPpt of 
nxist1mce, o!' nwaning, of tlw 1111ivnrs11, and of' llw mystliry of human lifo. B1dids about llwse 111atl1!rs could not 1h•lilll' tllP attrlhutf'S or p1'rsonhood w,~n! t.lwy fornwd undf'r compul­sion of lhl' Stall•." That 
is. il"tlw (Anwrkan) 
Stat,, was to c!Plirw who's human and who's not. Anwrinms would nllt lw pl'l"snns. rl'ally. lwcaus<i they would nol lw ahlP to f'Xf•rcis,~ 0111' or llw C(ll]­tral rights of pnrson­liood: thf' right to d1•fi1w, by 011ns1•lf. Uw rnm·,·pt of ,~xist,•nrn. i\bortion is in tlrn nnxt 
Sl'!l[IHJCll. 
.Just notf' what the S11prn11Hi Court is say­ing. Tlw Inga[ right to abort is not a pnriplwr­al right, it is not somll­thing that I nm takn away from you and 
!Paw you urntllt.iclf'd: if 
I ban abortion, you will not boa f"ull JH•rson {says tlw Court). Abortion is not sonwthing that just roncerns a woman. lwr doctor, and (b1!ing l'ro-
1.il"P} tho hahy. It rnnrPrns you. 
IH•1·a11sP you rlaim to bP a person. It 1·011n1rns all th,i pnople who would 
n1•vPr hav1• an i11co11v11ni1111l prngnan­,:y: it conn\rns all of thos1i who, 1.lianks to biolugy. will nev11r havn to dPdde lwtwnon llwir lilr. and that of' 
llwir child. Abortion is a nmtral issue 
l'or YOU. 
,\hortion is a central issue if you lrnliPVI' in justir.P. If you bdic!Vn that Pach should rnceivP what llwy f!pscrvP, you 111wd to dncido whether a rhild can do anything to desc~rvn doath. Or. on tho otlwr hand, what did a woman do to dnservu a fate worsn than rloath: how did shn rlPsmvl' tn b1• nqwd'' Tho Pro-Lifor in 1111' cannot rdrain from noting that Llw rhild did not rnpo his mother: the rapist did. If you bnlinw that justicti is PwrymH• fulfilling their function, you must clcddn wlwtlwr a dodor can kill as wl'II as lwal. wlwtlwr tlrn l lippocrntic Oath (whirh forbids abor­tion and eutlmnasial is sLill valid: on tlw lither hand, is it rwt tht\ doctor's place! to rdi(wn sulforing? The Prn­1.ifor in nw asks you Lo consider who sulfors morl' in un abortion. and wlwthcr it is just lo adivPly lake away an inno,:c\nt lifo. in any circumstance. Banning-or allowing abortion dclines, in a sin).\l1\ strokli, whetlwr tlm legal systm11 is a just or an unjust systnm. 
Abortion is a central issue if you the Way, or does she just teach opin­
b,)!icve in liberly. Is a woman free lo ions? The Church has taught, relent­
dt~cidn what tn do with herself and lessly, that abortion is an abomination 
her own body? Isn't this, too, at tho in all circumstances, a heinous crime 
l10art of liberty? On the other hand, that cries out to Heaven. She teaches 
what about the child's choices, the that it tears to pieces the very corn of 
child's right to be free: is she denied human dignity, that it subverts a most 
the right to choose? llas liberty intimate bond: that of mother and 
become Moloch, the pagan god who child. Do wo answer "So what'?'' Our

--=~=~=~~-~-----personal position in the issue of abor­
Gabriel Martinez 

started good but became an insaliable child-eater'' On another plane: is a woman ('rec to have any operation she wants. whcnuvcr she wants it'! Or should parnnts (in the case of minors) bn required to consent to major surgery? Should boyfriends and/or husbands have a right to veto the 
abortion of a child of theirs? Pulling the Ing of llrn Supreme Court: don't men also have a right to define exis­tencn, or is it limited to the Beautiful Sex? The (legal) right to abort defines, in a singln stroke, whether the legal system promotes liberty or license, whether it encourages responsible f'reodom oi: excessive control. 
Abortion is a central issue if you cam about science. Is a fetus a part of tlrn woman's body, as she is insiile her mother and derives all nourishment from her? Is the fetus just like the appendix, which can be removed when it becomes irksome'? On the otlrnr hand, science tells us that acer­tain child is Jefferson's descendant. or that blood on a certain knife is the defondant's, il'DNA codes match. If l analyze the DNi\ of the fetus, the appendix, and Lhe walking ox-mother, what. do I conclude? ls this a valid analysis? Or is science like the State, in that if under its compulsion certain bnliels aw formed, Llw person st.ops being a full person? Socielal approval or disapproval of abortion (Axpressed through its laws) defines, in a single strokn, wlrnther scientific explana­tions havo any meaning and/or social validity whatsoever. 
Abortion is a central issue if you cam about being Catholic. Dofls the Church speak for God. or is she just anotlu~r shaman, another guru to whom we listrm but hy whose teach­ings we do not abide? Dues she teach tlw truth about the Truth. the Lil'fl and tion defines, in a single strokfl, what we moan by faith. 
Abortion is a central issue ii' you care about God. Is the biblical storv of Creation rnliable, in the sense that.it tells us Who created us, in Whose image we were created, and for what reason? Does God love pAople because they am old or young, because they are rich or poor, because they are male or female'? Or does He love humans just because they exist? Does God's love know lim­its of time, or did He Jove us when we were bf•ing madt'l in the secret, fash­ioned as in the depths of the earth? For that matter, docs God exist, docs Ile care? Are His laws at all relevant 
in this day and age, when 
we can reach the Moon by oursnlves'! Our per­sonal position on the issue of abortion defines, in a single stroke, how seriously we take God, what is tho focus of our soul. 
There are many good, conscientious people that I know whu say that the issue of abortion would never sway their vote. They are wrong and they am very confused. Maybe they are not aware of what abortion is. Abortion (the Pope and tho Supreme Court agree on this) defines what a person is taken to be, what can be done to her or him, and what she or he can or cannot do. Abortion should be THE litmus test. because life and death, porsonhood or possessionhood hang in the balance. Is a fetus a piece of property, like 
excess fat or a disfiguring mole? Is she a person, waiting for tho moment? To whoever cares about existence, meaning, the universe and the mystery of human life, the central issue cannot be "the economy, stu­pid." 
A note on the Court: if they are right, then my roommate should fear for his life. For one of those days I will define him out of personhood (by myself, without any compulsion from the State), push him through a win­dow, and earn a 4.0, according to col­lege myth. Yet the funny thing is, the Court is just half wrong. There is 110 such right to define personhood 011 orn1's own: God did that for us a long time ago. But such a definition is not set by tho State, which should take its cue from the Divine Legislator. 
Last Saturday markl'd the 26th Anniversary of' Roe v. Wade, of unhappy memory. Hundreds of ND/SMC students marched in protest. May you as a nation. may we as a civ­ilization change 011r wa, ... and be open to the pown 111 bring ;1hout the grnatest gin 111ul iii•· ~reate~t :nvstery, the most sublu11,· ~1i:1ri11g in tlw power of our C:n,,11111" Lifr•. 
Gabriel Martfnez is u. <1Nu!11alr• stu­dent in the Department oJ I m11vmics. Jlis cofumn runs etJery othe1 Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily lho:;e ofThe Observer. 

¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Much at 
Stake in 
Big Ten 
Decision 
Upon returning to campus, much discussion 
was centerf~d around the dnbate ovor Notrn 
Dame's possible entrance into the Big Ten and 
its academic counterpart, the CIC (Committee 
on Institutional Cooperation). Much of the 
debate around dorms and in tho dining hall 
has been centerAd around athletic aspects. 
especially football. Pooplo am concerned that 
we would no longer bo able to play the same 
diverse and interesting schmlule we currently 
enjoy, Certainly, we would not be able to play 
the service academies, Boston Colloge and 
USC all in the same year -Big Ten seasons 
allow for only three nonconference games. 
Other factors in tho decision should be viownd .with even more importance when considering this question. for it is the academic implica­tions of the proposHd move that would change the face of Notre Dame for years to comn. Two important facets of this move seem to be the academic reputation ol' the University and our identity as a national institution. 
Entrance into the Big Ten and CIC would 
first and foremost reinforce the notion that 
the University of Notre Damn is a resBar,:h 
institution. Thll faculty arc in support of tlw 
research oriented philosophy thut the CIC pro­
poses, and, in fact, tho Faculty Senate voind in 
favor of CIC membership. For them publishing 
research is an important way to gain prestige 
in the academic world. This addf1d (1mphasis 
on research might improve our reputation as 
a collegiate university and also our U.S. News 
and )'Vorld Heport ranking. 
The University of Notro Damn, though. cur­
rently places much importance on excellence 
in undergraduate education and in its identity 
as a teaching university. Ono downsido to 
added emphasis on research may involve a 
decrease in undergraduate accessibility to . those profossors engaged in resonrch, parlicu­. larly at tho freshman level. This shift would 
most likely be felt in the the Engineering and 
Science Co1leg(1s, as cooperative rnsearch in 
these fields snoms to bn the primary function 
ofthe ClC. On this issue, them may Im ll valu<' 
judgement to be made: increased academic 
standing, or the undergraduate-orinnted sys­
tem that we currently enjoy. 
Further. Notre Dame prides itsell' on its 
national image. We am more than just a mid­
western university: Our student body draws 
heavily from all parts of the U.S. Much of this 
geographic diversity can be attributed to the 
image of' Notre Dame as having high stan· 
dards in academics as well as the publicity 
and exposure that we get from our football 
team. With national TV coveragn every wnek­
end, more people see us than any other school 
in the nation. Entrance into the Big Ten might 
cause ND to lose some of this national audi­
ence. Further, the expansive schedule the 
team plays would be reduced to three non 
conference giimes, Uw rnst against Big Tfm . opponents, Would this affect our national 
image'? There would certainly be less visibili­
ty for our football team, but our situation may 
resemble that of NorthwHs1.Mn as f1w M an 
identity as a national University (although wci 
all would hope that we fare b1itt1•r 011 the play­
ing fields). 
Big TctVCIC membership is a complex issue 
that cannot be shrugged off. It might be an 
opportunity for our community, or it may boa 
change for tho worse. The decision must not 
bo madfl without careful thought about the 
prospect of the move and the i.:haractor ol' our 
university both now and in tho f'uturn. 
An in-depth report compiled by the Senatn 
Committee looking into the Big Ten prospect 
will be available Thursday artor Wodnesday 
night's Senate meeting. 
The Student Senate Big Ten Committee January 27, 199'> 


O
TlfE 

--------------Wednesday, January 27, 1999


Sunny Day Real Estate 
How .It Feels To Be So,nething On 
Sub Pop Records 
***** (out of five) 
Ihate band reunions. Groups that re-form are usually out to capitalize on their legend. Bands like Janr's Addiction lost a lot of cred­ibility when they released new albums that weren't mmrly as good as earlier work -which explains my apprehension to write this review. Sunny Day Heal Estate (SDRE) was one of' my favorit11 hands yon never heard, and when I found oul they were back in the studio, I pan­icked. Along with th11 pre-Fugazi band Rit11s of' Spring, SDHF. pioneered the emo-corc genre, whi'ch combines the urgency of punk rock but eschews revolutionary themes for introspective, melodic lyrics. The band's early work inspired curront alt-rock heroes Modest Mouse and The Promise Hing. l994's Diary and 1995's LP2 were two of the most influential CDs of the under­ground scf'JHJ. In fact, Diary was so moving that. Sub Pop received letters from people thanking SDRE for saving their lives. Suddenly, tho band had a video on high rota­tion at MTV. Major labels showed interest. Club shows sold out across the countrv. The attention caused confusion and anxiety within the band, culminating in iead singer Jeremy Enigk's abrupt conversion to Christianitv. Soon afterward, the rhythm section jumped' ship to become Foo Fighters, and SORE ended. The former bandmatrs met last year to com­pile an odds and ends CD and clicked. Four yAars later, SDRE decided to write a new album, with the exception of bassist Nate Mendel. who chose to remain with Foo Fighters. Hassist Jeff Palmer of the Mommyheads fillerl in for the recording. So you see, when I read Sub Pop's press release, I assumed the CV would suck. How It Feels To Be Something On is not the brooding, dissonant SORE of before. Like other reunions, the band is hardly recognizable from its past persona. I wouldn't even call them emo-core anymore. SDHF's reincarnation is mature, mellow and creatively ripe, and the music is more focused and refined. Despite Enigk's impassionrd Christianity, the band does not play "Christian music" or have outwardly religious themes. 

Blendin~ progrnssivn roc.k with interwr,aving gui­tars and soaring, stil:k-in-your-lrnad mr,lodics, flow It Feels To Ile Smrwlhiny On is easily tho best SDHE production yet and arguably Urn most inventive CD released last y11ar. 
The CD carries a loosc1 thomc of finding your placr, in the world. It opnns with "Pillars," a sing­a-long grablwr and movt>s right inln "Hoses in Wall1r," which uses a rlil1inilt <J/4 tinw signatur<'. The band pulls lhis olT with r<•markahln aplomb and crescendos into a dramatic 1•11ding. 
"Every Shining Tinl<' You ,\rrivP" is a largely acoustic number with 11 prPtly, slrip1wd-d11wn melody and uplifting lyrirs. ·'Two l'r11111isPs" melds very different musical concPpts wilh smooth transitions. 
The CD is not without raults -at tinws, it's bombastic and grandioso, espr,cially during "The Prophot" and "Guitar and Video Games." Tim· closer. "Days Wern Golden," features a lush melody and intricatP. drumming by William Goldsmith -I can't believe Dave Groh! lr.l this guy leavf' Foo PightNs, 
In a lot of' ways, SDltE resnmbles Hush -both arc progressive bands, unafraid of experimenta­tion. But where Hush is a trio of soloists, SDB.E is more of' a hand -sans extended solos. 
There is onr, glaring similaritf~'-both Bush's and SDHE's lead singers have voices that most pr,ople tolerate. Enigk's affected high tenor is delinit1~ly an acquired taste. Another staple of' SDHE is their unusual song structure. and flow It Feels To He Somethiny On delivr,rs. Instead or fol­lowing Lhe radio friendly verse-chorus-verse for­mat, tho band uses verse-chorus-changn in time signaturn-chorus-ending. Due to their inventive­ness, SORE will probably never be a Top 40 group, but they arc definitely the host band you've never heard. I can't stop listening lo Hou• It Feels To Be Something On, and I was dflstincd to hate it. · 
Georgette Leonard 

You've probably heard the first singlr, and hit song "Pure Morning" ("a friend in newl's a friend indeed/a friend with weed is bettor/a friend ,-vith brnasts and all the resVa friflnd who's dressed inleather") off Placebo's new album. Lead singer and guitarist Brian Molko calls it "a celebration of friendship with women." The American Molko is joinod by Swede Slef'an Olsdal (bass, guitar and keyboard) and Englishman Stnve Hewitt (drums) in the trio Placebo. · Placebo began in 1996 with a self-Litlecl debut that spawned four singles in the t;.K., but made little impression on mainstream American audi­ences. Without You I'm Nothing is Placebo's sec­ond record and the first on a major label. Thr, album is a grand mixture of introspective and "after the relationship" tracks. Two more fun singles havr, emerged off this album since the releaso of "Pure Morning" with the songs "You Don't Caro About Us" and "Every You Every Me." Tim band itself sports the common theme of guitar, bass and drums with an occasional key­board appearance. It's Molko who lends Placebo's style. llis nasal (almost androgenous) voice soars over the music and complements his lyrical style well. On Without You J'm Nothing. it's Molko's lyrics that both aid and hinder tho song quality. Molko's words, though always a mixture of the cheesy and serious, occasionally seem all for rhyme ("Your smile will make me sneeze/when we were siamese" from "The Crawl") Other times, the lyrics provo wacky, urging you to sing along ("Puckr,r up for hoaven's sake/there's never been so much at stake" from "Every You Every Mc"l. It's songs like these \Vhich make the album thrive. 
"Burger Queen" is a hilarious takri on going out on the town to pick up girls. In "Scared of Girls," :vtolko wants us to ask '"Do male f'lirts do it because they n1ally lovf' women or actually because thC'y'rn actually scared of' women'?" 
Without rou I'm l\"othing is not, however, with­out its downpoints. "Brick Sh*"house" is a song about watching your ex-lover make lovci to the guy who killucl you. The song doesn't get. much better than that nxplanation, and the lyrics am much too repctitivr,. The real downer, "Summer's Go1rn," is lyrics lacking any recogniz­able theme put to dull music. 
But, r,ven in these songs, Molko's voice man­ages to hold one's interest. All said and done, if you like the style or "Pure Morning" chances are you'II enjoy Without You I'm Nothing. And, if you care to see them live, they'll be visiting the Riviera in Chicago on March 11th. 
Tim Donohue 


Placebo 
Without You I'm Nothing 
Virgin Records 
*** (out of five) 
BENEFIT FOR HURRICANE MITCH 
Four bands -Stepan Center -Friday, Jan. 28 Tickets are $5 -All Ages 
------------------------------~~----------------------.------..... ·-~
--~ 


Wednesday, January 27, 1999 page I I 

T!w otlwr night.. l ww; lying in my room lis­t1•11i11g to llw n1usir blasting from lhn f1oor lwlow nw, wlH•n 11II of a sucld1•11, ,~vcryonP in llw room y1•lls out. "And all tlrn girlnes say 1·m prPl.ty fly. for a whitn guy!" Yep! Tlwy'rl' at it again! l;ivl' yt-ars af'tt~r introducing pop punk to l.11n11y-hoppnrs and m'all-g<rnrs, Soutlwrn C:nlif'ornia's T111~ Offspring havl'\ rne1111t­ly r<'l('ilSl'd their rww album 1'ntili<'d 11.merir.ana. TIH•ir lat,•sl Cll has alniady climlwcl to number nirw 011 thn Billboard Top 200. ThPir r!•ignitNI popularily has bt~l'n ('tlt'lcd by the hil singlo, "l'n•lty Fly (For a Whil.f' Ciuy/," This track pro­1·idc•s llumorous sorinl 1·omnwntury 011 all of today'-; Wu-Tang wan11a-b11<; and submlmnitns h11yi11g tlw lalPsl gangsta 1·lothPs from the local mall. Tl1P hand has a history ol' !wing associatnll with nov1\lly songs such as Urn I IJCJ4 hit, "Come Out itnd l'lay." It's I.tin S1J11g tlrn.t's known for the li11,1 "You gotta kfH1p 11111' s1iparntnd!" In a rnce11t intPrvic•w willt Holling Slo1w Magazi1w, lead singnr D«•xtPr llollancl stressed that novclly "lu•lps gc>t sornPthing on tlw radio, hut it helps you h1• over n•ally fast. I did want llw otlwr side to 1·omP out as w1dl -that WP arc a band lwyond 01w song." Tilt' Offspring's 1ww CD, 1\mr•ricwrn, achieves llolland's l10pP of bPing mcirp than a orw-hit­wo11d1•r. AsidP from "l'rPtly Fly (For a White (;uyl." 1h1• Cll rorks with 1.lw B1•atlPsns11tw "Why Don't You c;cit a .lob?" It's advice !'or a guy whose girlfriPIHI sp1•1Hls all of' his monny. On a playl'ul not<', I.hr• band 1·nv11rs lfw song, "Fnnlings." llolla11d lold Bolling Stone tliat "the song was stul'k in my lwad on!' day, and thoso 'Whoa. whoa, whoas' kinda translatP into tlw SoCal p1111k thing. I just !ward that Morris Allfort lllrn song's rompos!'rl is thr!'alPning to sue us. Isn't that rad''" 
OIH~ of the most intemsting parts of the CD is it's spp,cial interaclivo foaturns. l'ut tho CD into your computPr's CD HOM drive, and you can watch Offspring videos, and partake in a karaoke typp, sing along whnrn the words appear on tho sr,rnon as thn song plays through the speakers. My roommates were shocked wlwn thny canrn intn tlw room and found me singing and scrnaming lo thn CD's karaokn foat.ure, "And all the girlees say I'm pretty fly fur an Asian guy'" 
At any rate, this album will not only leave you with an <1xpanded Spanish vocabulary (i.e., "uno, dos, trl's, quatro, cinr.o rinco, snis"), but. also with a 1'1!W quality songs that you and your frinnds can jump around to and rnlievn thn stress of collogc life, "So if you don't ratr, just ovcrcom­pnnsatn. i\t least you know you can always go on Hicki l.akc." ln this DJ's opinion, The Offspring arn protty lly ... well, you know tho line. 
Keith Kawamoto 
Tuesday Night Noctune Midnight-2 A.M. 
Requests? Yes. Celine Dion. No. Ska? Yes. Backstreet Boys? No. Swing? Yes. Shania Twain? No ... but she's pretty hot, so listen to the show anyways. 


The Offspring 
Americana 
Sony Music 
*** (out of five) 

When alternative music and rap shook the record industry a couple years ago, few metal bands were left standing. After an era of dominance in the 80s, heavy metal simply lost its appeal; critics and fans alike were becoming increasingly annoyml by the nxcnssivnness and 11ash associat­ed with mntal. llowever, those bands that did surviv«~ wnre tlrn onos who darnd to grow up, nxpanding their musical horizons beyond the rndundant thnme or "sox, drugs and rock n' roll." Onn such band was Guns N' Hoses, whose tumultuous carnnr was just as famous as its music. Al'tor oxploding onto the national sce1rn in 1987, Guns N' Hoses looked like tlrn typical rrn~tal band -tho big ha-ir, tho biker apparel and the chaotic attitude. What prnventnd G N' R from becoming part of lrnavy metal's downward spiral in tlw early <JOs was that limy concentrated on llw substance of' their material, while otlrnr nwtal hands worn obsessed with perfocting their had-boy rnputations. Welcome lo the Videos, a 75-minutc compilation l'eaturing 1:~ Guns N' Hosns videos broadcast on MTV, documents tlvi trPmondous evolution G N' H underwent on a musical level as well as a band. Beginning with the hell-raising, lock-up-your­daughters-an d-throw-away-the-kcy antics of "Welcome to Urn Jungle," the compilation video is definitely a walk down memory lane, but, at the same time, you can't watch without realizing that when G N' H made a video, they made a video. Aside l'rom being tremendously talented musicians, the band incorporated the key themes of its music into Urn videos. and it captivated the aggression and int,msity associated with their songs. I understand that many of you are right now shaking your heads saying "Wait, this reviewer actually thinks Axl Rose and Slash are accom­plish('d. filmmakers'!" I'm not going to go out on a Iimh and declare that, but I do believe that Guns N' Hoses l.ook Uw art of' music videos to an cntirnly difforent lr1vr.l. one which few bands sim:n have b<rnn ahl<1 to reach. Whnther com­posnd of pnrformance footage, bchind-thc-scp,ncs sn.iprwts or narratives touching on birth, mar­riagn. survival and dnath, G N' H videos have' beon among the most emotionally provocative ever mad,,. 

What's interesting about tho compilation is that it's not entirely a headbanger's ball. Sure, there are anthems like "Paradise City" and "Live and Let Die," but in betwenn these messages of' anarchy and turmoil arc the sing-alongs like "Patience" and "Yesterdays." And who ran forget those late night discussions and debates about what or who killed Stephanie Seymour in 1992's heart wrnnching "November Hain"'! And why worn lrnr injuries so severn that slrn 1rnedcd that silver wall in lrnr coliin'! And why did Slash, tlw best man, unexpectedly walk out of' tlrn wed­ding'? Although the answnrs to these qunstions are supposed to bo obvious wlrnn you watch The Trilogy ("Don't Cry," "November Hain," and "Estranged"), I just gel more confused. After years of analysis, this is my conclusion -she died at the wedding reception when shn was struck by lightning. There is a thnory that Slash killed her, and the reason he left the wmlding was out of jealousy, not because his guitar solo was coming up. 
The only disappointment is the exclusion of two or my favorite G N' H videos -"You Could Be Minn," featuring a cameo by Arnold Schwarzenegger as The Tnrminator and thn live cover of Bob Dylan's "Knockin' on Heaven's Door," taken from a show in London. 1 was extromely surprised when I was reading over the track listing and noticed that these two vidnos were missing. In addition, the most recent video, 1994's "Since I Don't Have You" (a cover of the Skyliner's 1958 hill, was a tremendous slide from the band's high standards rngarding its ., videos. Despite a guest appearance by Gary Oldman as the devil, the video is excessively psy­chedelic and makes absolutely no sense. 
Since the band's last video in 1994, Slash and Duff McKagan have both quit the band, lnaving Axl Rose as the only remaining original member. Therefore, in a sense, Welcome To The Videos is a tribute to a band whose mark in rock history will not be forgotten. Once ynu watch tho vidno compliation and remember how awesome (, N' H was, you'll be uttering one word to yours,df: IIEUNION, HEUNION, HEUNION. 
.­
Emmett Malloy 
page 12 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, January 27, 1999 
¦ NHL 

Rookie goaltender records first shutout in fifth game 
-
Associated Press 

SAN JOSE, Calif. 
Goaltender Rich Parent recorded his first career shutout and Scott Young and Pierre Turgeon each scored goals as the St. Louis Blues beat the San Jose Sharks 3-0 Tuesday night. 
St. Louis added an empty-net goal by Craig Conroy with 17 seconds remaining as the Blues snapped a season-high three­game losing streak. 
Parent. appearing in his fifth career NHL game, had 20 saves, including a stop in the final minute when the Sharks had an extra. attacker. He was recalled Monday from the Worcester Icef.ats of the AHL and started in place of Grant Fuhr, who has been bothered by a groin strain. 
His only previous career deci­sion came Nov. 21, when he stopped nine of 10 shots in a 3-3 tie against the Dallas after relieving Jamie McLennan. 
The Sharks, outshot 36-20 and 0-for-5 on the power play, were unable to counter the Blues· offensive thrusts and failed to capitalize on another solid effort by goaltender Steve Shields. Shields made 33 saves, includ­ing a stop on Terry Yakes' penalty shot. 
St. Louis set the tempo from the outset, getting off 12 shots to San Jose's three in the first peri­od. 
The Blues kept the pressure on and broke through at 17 :06 of the second when Young got his eighth goal, a power-play score. Yake set up the goal with a pass across the slot to Young, who knocked the puck past Shields into the corner of the net. 
Little more than a minute later. Yake shook loose on a breakaway down tho center of the ice but was pulled down from behind by Marcus Ragnarsson and was awarded a penalty shot. Yake carried the puck to the goal mouth but Shields anticipated his move and stopped the shot. 
St. Louis went ahead 2-0 on Turgeon's 12th. Shields had stopped a shot by Pavo! Demitra but couldn't control the rebound. Turgeon gathered it in and lifted the puck over the fall­en Shields for the score. 
Red Wings 4. Predators 1 
Martin Lapointe and Sergei Fedorov each scored in the opening minutes and Chris Osgood stopped 25 of 26 shots as the Detroit Red Wings beat the Nashville Predators 4-1 Tuesday night. 
Detroit crune in having outshot Nashville 151-65 over their pre­vious three games, and it looked early like the Red Wings would add to that total even with lead­ing scorer Steve Yzerman miss­ing his first game this season with a broken nose. 
Lapointe scored his 10th of the season 1 :07 into the game with the Red Wings' first shot off a pass from Slav a Kozlov. Detroit fans celebrated by tossing an octopus onto the ice, a first in a sold-out Nashville Arena. 
Fedorov put Detroit up 2-0 just over a minute later on a short wrist shot off a cross-ice pass from Brendan Shanahan. 
Nashville finally scored a sec­ond before the period ended. Andrew Brunette got his eighth goal on a power play as he poked a rebound past Chris Osgood. It was Nashville ·s first goal against Detroit with the man advantage in 13 tries this season. 
Detroit padded its lead 17:34 Into the second to 3-1 as Kozlov put a soft wrist shot past goalie Mike Dunham. Larry Murphy added an empty-netter with 1.3 seconds left for the final margin. 


KAT 

Pierre Turgeon (left) scored his 12th goal of the season in the Blues 2-0 win against the Sharks. 
Panthers 3, Flyers 3 
Pavel Bure scored three goals, giving him six in three games since being traded to Florida, as the Panthers tied the Philadelphia Flyers 3-3 Tuesday night. 
The Flyers lost goaltender John Vanbiesbrouck after a col­lision with the goal post with 23 seconds left in regulation. There was no immediate word on Vanbiesbrouck's injury. 
Ron l-lextall replaced him for the final 23 seconds of the third and the overtime period and didn't face a shot. Florida's Sean Burke stopped 27 of 30 shots, ending Eric Lindros' goal-scor­ing streak at seven games. 
Vanbiesbrouck was knocked out of the game after a collision with Rob Niedermayer knocked him into the goal post. Ile appeared to be favoring one of his legs as he skated gingerly to the dressing room to chants of "Beezcr! Beezer!" from the sell­out crowd. 
Vanbiesbroud's collision came after the Flyers' 4-on-3 advantage was wiped out by a questionable penalty on Lindros -holding Niedermayer's stick on a faceoff -with 1 :03 left. 
Bure, a season-long holdout in Vancouver who was traded to the Panthers last week. erased Philadelphia's 2-0 lead with his 10th career hat trick. His bril­liant performance included an incredible goal from a flat angle in the corner that tied it 3-3 with 12 minutes left in the third. 
He slapped in his first goal oIT a rebound on Ray Whitney's shot, cutting Philadelphia's lead to 2-1 with 8:07 left in the first period. He was just getting warmed up. 
With Lindros in the penalty box for slashing five minutes into the third, Bure was left alone behind the net. He sneaked to the side of the crease and tipped in Robert Svehla's half-shot, half-pass from the blue line to tie it at 2-2 with 
14:21 remaining. 
Eric Desjardins gave the 
Flyers a 3-2 lead with his ninth 
goal, taking a pass from Lindros 
and rifling a slap shot over 
Burke's glove with 13:09 left in 
the third. 

Then Bure followed perhaps 
the easiest goal of his career 
with one of the most difficult 
imaginable. 

He received a pass from Svehla at the Flyers' blue line, controlled it with his stick and skates and swooped in on Vanbiesbrouck's right. About a foot from reaching the goal line in the far corner. Bure flicked a wrist shot off the Beezer's body and into the net. 
The Flyers outshot Florida 8-1 in the first 11 minutes, taking a 2-0 lead on goals by Daymond Langkow, his eighth, and Keith Jones, his 11th. 
Philadelphia forward Alexander Daigle was benched after nixing a trade that would have sent him to Edmonton for Andrei Kovalenko. General manager Bob Clarke said Daigle is "not part of the team any­more. He made that decision." 
Islanders 4, Boston 1 

Hobert Reichel had two goals and an assist and Tommy Salo stopped 25 shots as the New York Islanders beat the Boston Bruins 4-1 Tuesday night. 
Heichel's linemates Zigmund Palffy and Bryan Smolinski each had a goal. Palffy also had two assists, while defenseman Barry Richter had three assists as New York won back-to-back games for the first time since Dec. 15 and 17 when they won at San Jose and Los Angeles. 
Shunned by former coach and current general manager Mike Milbury since the Jan. 9 trade for Felix Potvin, Salo has won both starts for new coach Bill Stewart, who replaced Milbury last Thursday. 
Tim Taylor scored the only goal for the Bruins, who have one win in their last six games (1-4-1 ). Byron Dafoe turned aside 16 shots in the Boston net. 
New York scored twice in a 40-second span on the same shift to take a 2-0 lead. 
Reichel opened the scoring at 
5:42 with a wrist shot from the 
' right circle. Smolinski connected at 6:22 with a one-time wrist shot from the left hash mark that went between defenseman Don Sweeney's legs and over Dafoe's right pad. Reichel made it 3-0 at 2:01 of the second period when he faked Dafoe down with a back­hand move and tucked a fore­hand into the open right side. Pa.Iffy scored his fourth at 14:33 with a slap shot from the high slot past Dafoe. 
Islanders defenseman Zdeno Chara suffered a freak injury at 
11 :56 of the second period. On a Boston rush, forward Jason Allison was upended by Chara. Allison's skate came up and cut Chara by his right eye. 
Team spokesman Chris Botta said Chara suffored three cuts ­two near the nose, and a severe cut just below the eye. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds muse be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  paid.full-time summer sales and marketing internships.open to all disciplines.College credit avail- Needed Immediately: Wheelchair bound woman needs  FOR RENT  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  PLEASE CALL 4-3441 BOB DYLAN 1st . 5 ROWS  
able.Training program.Great  assistance with housework, yard­ 219-291-7153  WVVF. RINGSIDE 1st. 10 rows  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  resume booster! 1(800)743-5556 or  work, and errands. 4-8 hours each  HOUSE FOR RENT.  272·7233.  
Cruise!5Nights $279llncludes Meals & Free Part1es!Awesome  www.universitydirectories.com  weekend@ $7/hour. Call 616-663­2573 or 219-273-7045 to apply.  TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 4-5 BR. Available June for  FOR SALE  
Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From  Ask for Linda.  Summer. August for Fall.  
FloridalCancun & Jamaica $3991  Piano Trumpet Sax Guitar & Bass  Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Full  
.....  springbreaktravel.com 1 ·800-678-6386  Players for Shenanigans Band-for 3 big shows and optional spring break tour.  ...........***........ ** ••.,, ............ , ...,. ....................................  Basement, Large Backyard and Off Street Parking. MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED .  For sale: Digitech RP-20 guitar floor pre-amp/effects proces­sor. Ex. condition, only 1 year old .  PERSONAL  
Spring Break Panama City  Call Meg at 4-2573.  FEMALE  CAIi 289-4712  $350 o.b.o. Call Brendan at 287­ •• ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY,  
$129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen  LEAD SINGER  9910 .  BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  
Next To Clubs!? Parties-Free  ADOPT:Help us make our family  . WALK TO SCHOOL  STUDENTS ·• Original student  
DrinkslDaytona $149!South Beach  complete. Let us give your newborn  Needed to complete  2-6 BEDROOM  NEW Rates Phone Cards  group will hold SUPPORT meeting  
$129!Cocoa Beach $149!  a loving.happy home and a wonder- new original/cover  STARTING $185  282 min.$20 call 258-4805  tomorrow 1 /28.  Call info line for  
springbreaktravel.com  ful future.Expenses paid.Please call  campus band  MONTH/PERSON  details 236-9661.  
1-800-678-6386  Lucille and Michael 1-800-468­ (must be wi!Jing to sing all  232-2595  Apple Multiple Scan 15..  
9311.  kinds of pop/rock/top40)  Monitor: $100.00  Its time,  
Two autistic children need students  Call Kelly, 4-3465  to get moving  
to work with them doing behavioral  Call DAN  @ x 1197  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  
therapy. Training provided. Call Pam@ 273·2761.  Looking for a Female Student to assist the Clay High School Girl's Track Team, daily M-F,  for immediate audition ............*** ***"'••••*"'**** ................................, .....  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8.6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097  89 Ford Probe GT (made by Mazda) $1600, call 634 4303.  Big, big party al the Rib Shack all weekend long  
....  WANTED SALES & MARKETING  3:00p.m.-5:30p.m .. Please contact Head Coach Hamilton at 271-1345, or 235-5858ext. 2565 asap.  Need child care for my 8 year old daughter 4PM-5:30PM Monday thru Thursday.Good pay.Need car.Call  '99-'00 LOADED!6 Bedrm. $800 mo. 273-0482/234-3831 5 or 6 Bed Rm Furnished House  TICKETS  Twelve more days until the bomb drops all over the place Keep count  
INTERNSHIPS  Lisa 277-8564 after 6PM.  333 N. Hill St. Sec Syst., Wash/Dry  NEED 4 TICKETS TO  
University Directones offers  233-9947  ND/MICH. HOCKEY GAME  

-----------•-•---w..-._ 
Wednesday, January 27, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
¦ NFL 
Falcon, Bronco players talk it up at Super Bowl media day 
MIAMI So many rnportcrs. so little IWWS, 
The mouthiest Broncos play­nr talked so much during his appointed hour that the humid tropical air around him aMual­ly grnw thin. 
"l.oquacious'!" Shannon SharpP stopped 01rn intervinw­nr in mid-qtrnstion. "lhrns that rn1ian talkative'?" 
;\s if" lw didn't know. 
Tlw clancingnst Falcons play­1'1", mti.rnwhile, declarnd tho 'Dirty Bird' passu -ev('n though lw rr.fusml lo tak11 the wraps off his 1rnw stop. 
"Sonlll guy came up to me in a hathronm and asks me to the do tlrn 'Dirty Bird,"" said !\tlanta running back Jamal Anderson, who invented the clancn crazP. 
"I said. 'Whoa, buddy! GPt Ill!' Sl'Clll"ity."' 
Funny he should mention that. At some othnr time, in some other place, what hap­pened Tuesday at Pro Player Stadium would be called stalk­ing. Instead, the National Football League calls it "Media Day." 
The annual event involvrs turning hundreds of sports writ11rs, assorted TV personali­ties and cameramen loose on the Super Bowl-contending teams like they were entrecs at a postgarnc buffot. Sort of a feeding frenzy with a time limit. 
J\t 8:45 a.m. Tuesday, the scoreboard clock at l'ro Play1u was set to 60 minutes to count down the first interview ses­sion with the Atlanta Fakons. After a brrak of 45 minutes, it was reset to give oqual time to the Dmwer Broncos. 
In betwoen, reporters were truated to a real buffet in a stadium roneourse a fow levels 
up -probably to discourage any Tyson-like snacking when they returned to the playing field. 
Afterward, it was hard to say who enjoyed the morning less -the predators. the prey or the two dozen former NfL players who used to be part of the meal and are now part of the media. 
Nothing emerged as monu­mentally stupid as the 1988 session. when a reporter actu­ally ask1!d Washington's Doug 
· Williams how long he had bnen a black quarterback. Or in 1981. when another reporter, overplaying the human-inter­est angle, asked Oakland's Jim Plunkett whether his mother was dead and his father was blind -or vice versa. Thai is not to say, however, that Tunsday was totally devoid of silliness. Atlanta's Ray Buchanan showed up wearing a blaek 

leather, silver-studded dog col­lar he bought for his Hottweiler, named Tyson because "he bites ears." The Falcons cornerback picked it up at a local pet shop, he explained. and decided to wear it during interviews so he would look like the "7-point underdog" the sports books in Vegas have made Atlanta heading into Sunday's game. 
That explanation. though, didn't satisfy a reporter from Comedy C:entral. 
She looked at Buchanan and asked, "Are you housebrp­ken?" 
This is Atlanta's first trip to the Super Bowl and in terms of' "Media Day" savvy, it showed. Throw out Buchanan and Anderson and there's not an all-interview team candidate on the squad. The Broncos, on the other hand, are bursting wiih them. 
Take Sharpe on whether he would engage in a war of 
r.====================================,, words with Falcons safety 
Spring Break Selllinars 
March 7-13, 1999 Experiential/ Service Learning 
• } CC f S

e flt er O r O C I a O fl C e r n S 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region 
L 
~~~~17 

-> An ND tradition of service-learning ''¾ ' "' 
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
-> Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
-> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Violence and Nonviolence zn American Life -> Direct cpntact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -> Service and political awareness opportunities 


CIVIL & HUMAN RIGHTS SEMINAR 
-> Travel to key civil rights sites in the South (e.g., the King Center, the Nat. Civil Rights Inst.) 
-> Learn from leaders who were instrumental in civil rights legislation and development 
-> A new and unique opportunity 
All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 
Applications Due: Jan. -28, 1999 c 
ENTER F o R 
SOCIAL Also: Deadline extended for the Mexico Seminar CONCERNS 
Eugene Robinson. 

"He doesn't want to get into 
tawing ~ith_ ~.e," Sharpe said. 
Ile cant wm. 

And so naturally, when another reporter pointed out that Robinson was a Colgate graduate who might be more ·skilled at talking smack than Sharpe suspected. he was 
ready for that one, too. 

"I didn't go to Harvard." Sharpe said, '"but I can count to a million." 
Fortunately, he didn't. But Sharpe removed any doubts about his math skills a few minutes later. J\sked how he thought the rooting interest would break down co/ne Sunday's kickoff, Sharpe replied: "We've got 17,500 tickets and they've got 17,500 tickets. That leaves 40,000 for the locals and such. And most of them will ho so drunk by then they won't care." 
Occupying the podium to Sharpe's right was Hod Smith, another Denver rec!~iver who unabashedly admits that he models evory move -olT the 
field  as  well  as  on  - after  
Sharpe. No one  had tho  nerve  
to ask why.  

"Shannon is known world­wide," Smith said. "And lrn's got some good plans. 
"When wn talk about retire­ment, he says Urn plan is to do nothing. J\nd the way my accountant set it up, if I ran just stay in this game f'or :rn more months at my current pay lrwel. I'm set." 
Someone pointed out that thrne years down Urn road, the 28-ycar-old Smith might find retirement boring. 
"Unh-uh," he said, 'Tm real­ly a regular guy. I just have a famous job." 
The Observer sports staff is looking for writers and editors. If interested, apply in person or call the sports desk at 
1-4543. 

Prayer. Music. Unity. 
.. featuring the Cel.ebration Choir. 

1ml Wednesday Nights, 1Opm.~W Walsh Hall Chapel 
ITERNATIONAL WOR;:N: ~p~r.rNl.'.y~ISH.· i NSCH.OOL ·l
,.,::,__ .··,,. · : . i;. . . ' .·._ -. 1, 
'r;adtia~tJl·:P>r.a on~. l
•..., ........... ··..· . . ·1 
/~P(JJ,t, Am:agtive / l:epporh.m.itie,s. .
'1· 
_, If.pt f!,<!C~$'Sftry. _. , 
"~. )t··,. .':·,i:~.. '.·: ""<·'.. ',•_' ~" ,,", 

RECRUITING DATES: February 25 & 26, 1999 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. SIGN UPS START FEBRUARY 1st. 

page 14 
The Observer • SPORTS 

¦ NBA 
Sixers' Ivers.on signs $71M deal 
Thrid-year youngster becomes one of league's top players . 
Associated Press  ,mce  can receive  as much  as  his ·championship hopes rest  
PHILADELPHIA l'\o mattr.r where Allen Iverson goes or how many defenders he bafflPs, the crit­ics am always in close pur­suit. They say he's cocky, selfish, too enamored of old friPnds from a troubled past. Heady. or not, Iverson signed a $70.9 million con­tract extension with the Philadelphia 76ers on Tuesday that gave him much more than a raise. Flashing a smile to team president Pat Croce , th is en igm ati c 2 3 -year-old took on the pressure of becoming one of the top young stars in the NBA's post-Jordan era. "I want to win the most championships." Iverson said. "And I want to be the best player." The job began as soon as Iverson finished signing his name. Iverson will get the maximum for a player enter­ 25 percent of his team·s salary cap, beginning at a maximum of $9 million. His 1998-99 salary of $3.5 million is prorated for a 50­game schedule, reducing it to $2.2 milliqn -a loss or more than S1. 3 million due to the lockout. "I just wanted to make enough money to take care or my family," Iverson said. "The money that's out there for me right now is enough for me to do so. If the Sixers were going to give me $100 million, I would he a fool not to take it. I have a famil.y and I want to know how my future's going to look finan-. cially. But it's not all about money all the time." Iverson is feared for his speed and crossover dribble, yet criticized for ongoing legal problems and judged on his appearance and choice of friends. Along with incredi­ble skill and com­ with Iverson, he still worries about him. "He's young, and I know he's giving of himself and of his riches to his friends and family to a fault," Croce said. "So I always worry about him, because he's not some­one who will say no." If Iverson had waited until July 1, he could have negoti­ated· with any team for a seven-year contract worth more than $86 million. But , he said he wants _to stay in Philadelphia, despite his past grievances with coach Larry Brown. "I just had to mature," Iverson said. "I realized that he was a great coach when I looked at his resume. It was important for me to put my pride aside and listen to what was said to me as a positive. "I was just young, l had to do a lot of growing up."  


ing his third season in the pPtitiveness, he league, Croce said. He will brings a street-kid get $9 million next season look to the court with annual raises of $1.1 with his braids, million that add up to $14,6 jewelry and tattoos million in the final year of running up and the contract. down each arm. 
"I didn't want to wait until Barkley once called the end of the year and then him Allen "Me, decide whether to play for a Myself and contender," Iverson said. "I Iverson." never wanted to take the Two weeks ago, easy way out. I've been here legal problemsthrough the bad times, I haunted Iverson want to be here through the again. Mercedes­good. I pretty much knew Benz Credit Corp.what time it was." sued Iverson for 
It is the largest contract more than $28,500 ever guaranteed by the in unpaid lease Sixers, hurtling Iverson past payments on three the likes of Julius Erving, late-model cars. Wilt Chamberlain, and The suit also asks Charles Barkley. for the return of 
"There were no snags on the cars and for the our part," Croce said. "I total buyout know Allen, and I know he's amount, about a winner. I know he's a good $300,000, on the guy. That smile can break 24-month lease you down like his crossover." vehicles. 
Iverson's chance to strike it "I didn't know super-rich with a $100 mil­until the article lion contract -like those came out," Iverson 
, signed by Kevin Garnett, said. "It was some-Antonio McDyess and Shawn thing that my Kemp -was wiped out by accountant was the lockout. According to the supposed to han­NBA's new collective bar­dle." gaining agreement, a player Though Croce 
... with up to six years experi-was willing to let 
ATTENTION 
Ameal so good,
HUGS MEMBERS 
it already comes with seconds. 
Sign up for Try our tasty Two-Fors. 2 burgers. 2 small fries. Just $2.22. 
(Price and participation may vary.} 
Spring Volunteer Hours 
The Huddle -Lafortune Stlldent Center 
~
THURSDAY, JAN 28 BURGER 
KING
7:30 @ c.s.c. 
-" 
Itjust tastes better. 

©1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King i;;orporation is the exclusive licensee of the registered Bun Halves logo trademark. 
-
Wednesday, January 27, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ NFL 
Parcells to miss first Pro Bowl due to health issues 
Associated Press The New York Jets coach tests last week, and two doc­received permission Tuesday tors who examined him rec­IIEMPSTEAD, N.Y. from NFL commissioner Paul om mended that be not go. 
Bill Parcells is missing his Tagliabuc to skip the game Last year. he begged off first opportunity lo coach in 1:-'eb. 7 in Honolulu. Parcells working the Senior Bowl. the Pro Bowl. underwent a series of medical "Coach Parcells was exam-
Fathering in the New Millennium January 28, 1999 
University of Notre Dame 
McKenna Hall (Former CCE) 
9:00 Introduction 
Juan AIJuu,. PhD. 


5 :00 Reception 
Sponsors: 


Open Skate 

OLYMPICS 
,, 
,l 
'I 
1 . 
-1J 
• ' •, £,, ' 
~"r; Wt ,, t I 
' ;\;:: ' ' 
~ ~ 

~v&,,. ' ' ' Come to Late Night Olympics on Frid~~.. rt,in,~~QPEN:SKATE event which is scheduled from 1:0:00.PM -Midnight 
No advance sign-ups necessary. Thlcls(Qf.skate ren: will be donated to Special Olympics. j;.!,. . 
l,;i.....(/ ... , ,,{ 
1.....1~"·· 

$1.00 Donation at the Door -Be aReal Champion, 
Support Special Olympics! 
Friday,January 29, 1999 • 7:00 PM-4:00 AM• Joyce Center &RSRC • 631-6100 All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Associa~on All T-Shirts Were Donated by <I:~ 
ined by his cardiologist, as well as by me in my office a couple of days a£.ter the Denver game," .Jets medical director Elliott Pellman said, referring to the 23-10 loss for the AFC championship on Jan. 17. 
"Ile clearly was showing the physical effects of the long season." 
Parcells left coaching in 1991, quitting the New York Giants because of health problems. ·11e has undergone several heart procedures. 
"I was in the midst of' preparation for the Pro Bowl with my staff and fully planned to carry out my obligation under the NFL guidelines," Parcells said. 
"But after undergoing a thor­ough medical examination, 1 feel it would be a big mistake on my part not to listen to the doctors. 
"I have nothing but respect for the Pro Bowl and the great players who are in it. Frankly, I'll miss being around them." 
In his place, assistant head coach Bill Belichick will run the AFC team, along with the entire Jets coaching staff. Minnesota's Dennis Green will coach the NFC. 
Pro Bowl assignments go to the losing coaches in the con­ference championship games, and Parcells had been :3-0 in those games before the loss to Denver. 


CIVIL/ROAD ENGINEER 
Seeking Civil Engineer for Highway Design Department. Experience in INDOT Highway Design procedures desired. Minimum two years experience; P.E. preferred. Salary commensurate with experience. Good benefits. 

Contact Butler, Fairman and Seufert, Inc. 9405 Delegates Row Indianapolis, IN 4640 317.573.4615 

. 8 weeks ofservice learning 
r;tNll.R fQll 

. $1700 tuition scholarship soc I AL 
-·
CONCERNS 

. Valuable alumni contacts . 3 credits Theology, with possible cross~liscs . Over 200 sites across the U.S.-and abroad 
January 29th • Application Deadline 
-
page 16 Wednesday, January 27, 1999 
¦ NBA 
Olowokandi-to start with L.A. Thl)rsday 
Associated Press 
PALM DESERT, Calif. 

Michael Olowokandi, the overall No. 1 draft choice who played in Italy during the lock­out, is expected to join the Los Angeles Clippers on Thursday. 
"He's been delayed by paperwork," ClippMs spokesman Joe Safety said. "It took him three or four days just to get over there. It's going to take some time to get back here." 
The 7-foot-l center was released from his contract 
with Kinder Bologna of the Italian League on Monday. He originally was under contract with them through Feb. 15. 
The Clippers, working out at College of the Desert, initially expected Olowokandi to join them on Wednesday. 
The team returns to Los Angeles on WPdnesday and plays exhibition games against the Los Angeles Lakers on Friday and Saturday nights. It is not known if Olowokandi will play in those games. The Clippers open their season Feb. 5 against Phoenix. 
The Observer/Kevin Dal um 

Pat Garrity, who led the Big East in scoring last year for the \rish, was drafted in the first round of June's NBA draft and was signed on Tuesday by the Phoenix Suns. 
Suns grab Garrity in round of signings 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

The Phoenix Suns signed four free a gen ts Monday, including Rex Chapman and Clifford Robinson. 
Chapman, entering his third season with the Suns, signed a six-year contract. Terms were not disclosed. 
The 10-year veteran led the team last season with a 15.9­point average and 120 3-point­ers, 19th in the NBA. Chapman played in 68 games and also averaged 2.5 rebounds. 3 assists and 33.3 minutes. 
Robinson, returning for his second season in Phoenix, signed a one-year deal. Terms were not disclosed. 
Last season, Robinson fin­ished third on the team in scor­ing (14 points per game) and second in blocks (1.13). 
In addition to Chapman and Robinson, the Suns signed two first-year players, Pat Garrity and Gerald Brown. 
. ~­
' ' 
Qf-23 $hots from· 
•· opQµing ha,Jf.anci 
lqha!)ces.for ea;sy· 
··..·.. Wi~g phip ~tato
·. The J3uckiilyes,had 

Pr 
ers 
Januar 
,:'Ci:,. 
!······.·· ' 
J 
·," ' 
When: February 3, 1999 Where: CSC Time: 5:30 pm 

Interracial Love ... Dinner and panel discussion Please RSVP @ 1-684 l by February l . 
Sponsored by the Office ofMulticultural Student Affairs 

Wednesday, January 27, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
Laflin remained perfect at No 6 singles in 1999, rolling past Robby Croll 6-1. 6-1. 
Notre Dame opened the match by winninM the doubles point with a sweep of the three match­es. Patterson and Sachire downed Loughrin and Schumacher 8-5 at No, 1 singles, and Daly and Smith wun 8-6 over Baker and W(1sterman al No. 3 Singles. 

Saturday. 
Third-rankiid Irish junior llyan Sachire won Urn battle of top-live nationally-rankod singlns players with a 6-1. 6-4 win over fourth­ranked Badger senior Mark l.oughrin al No. 1 singles. Brian Patterson downed Stefan Hnist 6-2, 6-4 at No. 2 singles and Matt Daly beat David Chang (,-4, 6-4 at No. 3 singles for Notru Damn. Irish froshman Andrew 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
SHason, whiln Wisconsin opnns its sPason at 0-1, illHI marks tho 4'J!Hh carnnr win l'or Nolrn DimHi ll1iad 1'.oad1 Bob Bavliss. 111• will look for his 500tli win wlwn tlw Irish n•Lurn homo to tak1· on siwnnth-rankcd T1ixas 

M.Bball 
continued from page 20 
Extra shooting practice paid ol'I' for Wyche. whose clutch jumper with 8. :1 snconds remaining tied the gamn al 70, and gave Notre Dame a legitimate chance tn steal another confcre11cc victory. Hickey notched his fifth clou­blo-douhlo of the season with 13 points and 12 boards. 
Tonight the Irish (10-10, 4­
5) squarn off against Big Easl rival Boston Collnge {3-14, 0­9). Despite a winless conl'Pr­cncc mar~. the Eagles will do tlrnir best to make Notrn Dame's trip to Chestnut llill a disappointing one. The all­time series favors the Eagles 8-6, although the Irish posted a three-point win against BC the last time tlw teams nrnt on Feb. 11, 1998 in South Bend. 
Michael Cotton leads the Eagles with 12.2 ppg in con­forencc games. whih1 Dwaynn Pina is the primary playmaker for the Big East basement­dwcllers, dishing out 4.22 
assists  per  game.  Knnny  
llarley  provides  Boston  
College  with  a  dang(1rous  

threat from lrnyond tho arc, lnuding the lnag1w with a .486 shooting percnnlagP in Big East contnsLs. 
Onr.p ,tgain tlw Irish may be battling without the snrvicfls of Murphy. Tlw frnshman is questionabln f'or tonight's game, as he continuPs to mtrse his spraiiwd lnl't anklP. 
It will take another great l.liam effort to nasu the pain or the rnc1•11t defoat and what may turn out to lw the t1tam 's last. game without Murphy. 

IRISH vs. DIABETES 
RAISE MONEY FOR AGOOD CAUSE... 
,,~Jf9lA BIKE TRIP THROUGH 
•rr-COLORADO 
or a DISNEY WORLD VACATION!! 
JOIN THE FIGHT FOR ACURE FOR JUVENILE DIABETES. 
Sign up ateam of fQYJ by Feb. 1 
Call Gina or Barb at x1462, Danielle at x1551, or look for sign up sheets in your dorm. 

You can post a Or you can postpicture of you a picture of youand some of and these kids your friends. fro-m the Hbrary. 
L/ig t\n m .. . ,,
, . .,:Eh:~fu~ 

MyFamily.corn and room ,;n ,my topic, CU$tomize family event just 1no1n.erus i!Wll\i fi:otn showing your 
.E •; .·..~ 1•nu c;m be.po.!lti,ng .. qile~~IJl•ilntl ph,ml•al~utM,11!1.1ifor i,!ifts, ) ·.. .,.. tl'.l(:Wfri~!' fo,get vo1ir family 111lslc,1diog photi,~ in ho tiinc; f\ut of,. ,f:\~~~r'ot\-1/fi'ih~l ifol<)tirtbe.th~nff~t'l~ ~nr :)Jtn . :JYi$oJtil~?~~~v:::.:'.?.11Q¢Ct~d. ,., 
:::fJ~1S~!~£:.J~~~";~;~.. ;-jW
y1a----------------------·-------------­
. --­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 27, 1999 
¦ WAY Our IN LEFT firw 
McCaskey's front-office moves keep Bears mediocre 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
Sports Columnist 

As Super Bowl XXXIII approaches and· the nation readies for the Denver Broncos' inevitable decimation of the Atlanta Falcons, we should look to the less fortunate. The less fortunate, that is, among football fans. One group in particular has been through a lot late­ly, from inept front office decisions, to poor coaching, to just plain bad luck. However, one hast[) hope, for the sake of Chicago Bears fans, that they will not be put through another fiasco similar to the hiring of their head coach. 
The Chicago Bears are thA NPL's oldest franchise and one of its proud­est. Names like Walter Payton, Dick Butkus, and Mike Ditka all ring through Halas Hall and contribute to
• 
the pride Bears fan share. The Bears 
have had many successful seasons, but 
have faded into oblivion since their 
Super Bowl season in 1985. Neither 
exceptionally good nor bad, the team 
has come to embody mediocrity. Why 
has this happened to such a proud 
franchise? Four words: Team 
PresidPnt Michael McCaskey. 
Mccaskey was the chief culprit, er, front office executive, in charge of hir­ing a head coach to replace the fired Dave Wannstedt. After interviewing a number of candidates, including the overly qualified, but often overlooked Sherman Lewis of the Green Bay Packers, McCaskey settled on his choice: Arizona Cardinals defensive coordinator Dave McGinnis. 
Common sense would tell you that, if you were Mccaskey, your next step would be to tell McGinnis that he would become the head coach and begin to negotiate a contract. Mccaskey took a different route: he advised McGinnis to stay overnight "if he wanted to" and that he might call him in the morning for a follow-up interview. Mccaskey did call the next morning and McGinnis drove to Halas Hall. One small problem, however, occurred on the drive: McGinnis heard over the radio that he had been named as the new head coach of the Chicago Bears. This came as news to him because (1) he hadn't been informed of his hiring and (2) no con­tract had been negotiated. 
Bv the time \1cGinnis arrived at Halas Hall, a press conference announcing his hiring had already 
been planned and the message on for­
mer coach Wannstedt's voice mail was 
changed to say, "You have reached the 
office of head coach David McGinnis." 
I would have loved to have been a tly 
on the wall during McGinnis' conver­
sations with Mccaskey and other 
Bears officials: · 
Mccaskey: "Surprise! You're our 
new coach!" 
McGinnis: "Uh, what about my 
agreeing to be head coach?" 
l'vtcCaskey: "What'd you say? Yes, 
we've agreed to let you be the head 
coach, silly. Let's go to the press con­
ference! Come on!" 
McGinnis: "Uh, what about my con­
tract'!" · 
Mccaskey: "Contract? I knew I for­
got something. You know, I was just 
thinking about that Bryan Cox signing 
a couple of years ago. Do you like 
Bryan Cox?" 
McGinnis: "What? What.' s going on 
here?" 
McCaskey: "Don't worry about leav­
ing the Cowboys and Jimmy, Dave." 
McGinnis: "I didn't agree to be the 
head coach of this team vet. You 
should have my agreemint and a 
mutually agreed upon contract before 
announcing my hiring." 
Mccaskey: "Hey, where's that Jim 
Harbaugh at?" 
McGinnis: 'Tm out of here. Give me 
a call back when you know what 
you're doing." 
McCaskey: "You know, you sound a 
lot like Ditka." 
. After a conversation somewhere 
along the lines of the one framed 
above, McGinnis left and removed his 
name from the list of candidates to 
become the 12th head coach of the 
Chicago Bears. It was a sad day for 
McGinnis, a former Bears assistant 
under Ditka, who had termed this his 
"dream job"; it was a pathetic day for 
the Bears, as McCaskey's ineptness 
and the incompetence of the front 
office were exploited. 
Both sides emerge losers. The Bears · lost what little credibility they had 
left. How many free agents will want 
to sign with a team as disorganized 
and dysfunctional as the Bears 
appeared through this fiasco? 
Probably the same number as the 
number of Bears who have made the 
Pro Bowl since 1994: none. 
Players, already critical of the front 
office, have now had their worst night-

Even with this incident. the Bears still 
are the Bears, and McGinnis was the 
first to realize it: "This is the Chicago 
Rears. They're going to get a good guy 
in here to coach. [ promise you." Well, 
he was right about that: Sunday the 
Bears announced the hiring (and that 
hopefully includes agreement to coach ·and signing of contract) of 
Jacksonville Jaguars defensive coordi­
nator Dick Jauron. 

McGinnis will return as defensive 
coordinator with the Cardinals. He 
returns as a man who was willing to 
walk away because he was not treated 
the right way. Jauron will roach the 
Bears, hopefully. back to respectabili­ty. lie realizes he was the "second choice" but knows that if he can rebuild the Bears that this incident will be a distant, yet ever so painful, memory. 
Mccaskey? Well, someone told him that if he believed that McGinnis would become the Bears 12th coach after the way he handled things that thny had a bridge in Brooklyn they'd like to sell him. He's busy negotiating right now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Use Observer 
classifieds. 
I Know What You Did Last Summer... 

And it wasn't'an internship with us ... This Summer, Get An International Internship or Teaching Position There's Still Time I Applications Due Wednesdav. January 2-r Pick Up Applications &Info NOW at l058 COBA or at: 
http://www.nd.edu/~ndcibd/ 
Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 
Don1 Be This summer's Vlctim...Get Awav While You Still can! 
mares confirmed: the inmates are run-.---------------------------------, ning the asylum. McGinnis also loses. 
Now You Can Pick from Five Colors! 
Combining state-of-the-art features with simple setup and operation, iMat is an 
Make Connections to Launch YOUR CAREER! 
• 
Learn From and Network Among "Washington Insiders" 

• 
Produce Radio and N Advertisements in Campaign Simulations 

• 
Compete as Consulting Groups on Strategic Lobbying Plans 

• 
Live 3 blocks from the White House and Monuments 

• 
GW's central location can put you on Capital Hill or the K Street corridor of lobbyists & Interest groups in minutes. 


_..,C'~rQi Tbce Graduate \\7asfiin'&o School of 
.175111 1

tt-&rvet'sif-? ~
!Political ... ~ s H, N c, o" o c Management _.....---­
incredible value. It boasts the advanced per­formance of the lightning-fast PowerPC™ G3 processor, high speed ethernet network­ing, a 56K modem, and pre-loaded soft-q ware that combine to get you to 
·· ..•. ·•·.· the Internet in 10 minutes right ~ , out of the box. 
· ' -..::;::.:f · And Now, The new iMac has a 
•--lower price, a 6GB hard drive, a faster processor and five new colors-blueberry, strawberry, tangerine, grape and lime. 
Your special student price: $1,135 
(Add an Imation SuperDisk drive for $150 =$1,285 total) 
©7998 Apple Computer; Inc. All rights reserved. Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks and iMac is a trademark of Apple Compuler, Inc. PowerPC is a trademark of IBM Corp. Purchase from a participating Apple-aUfhoriLed campus reseller or from the Apple Store for Fducation. 


Wednesday, January 27, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 19 

LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN 

FOXTROT  BILL AMEND  
www loxtrot.com  IT'S LIKE YOU HAVE  WHO'S lH1S LITTLE  You MEAN  
YoO'RE  WHAT'S 11-IAT  SoME SoRTof  GuY Willi GLASSES  11-tE ofJE  
OAAW1N&  SUl'foS£D  GENETIC INABILITY  THAT 't'ouR UNICoRN  SPIJRT1NG  
,._  UN1CoRN?  lb MEAN~  To DRAW "THINGS  IS IMPALING?  AU lHE  
EH, F1GURES.  ll-lAT AREN'T  I  CUTE  
CUTE.  BLooD?  

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS
•-==========:=:====~ E r::=================:::::, 1r-:::======-::_-::_-:_-:_-:_-:._-:__--­
e,Oe, HA\/£. 'r'OIJ EVE.P.. NOTICEO T~AT 11-\E. PEOPLE WtTH THE M05T 
EXPERIE.NC£ ARE. -mt WHO DIE? 
~

...,i ________........____..___ 
~ 

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  34 Something to  63 Cake maker's  
shoot for  work?  
1 Compact data holders 6 Do something 11 Highest deg. 14 Work-(code of the dedicated)  35 It'll drop your jaw 36 Just says no 39 Changed from green to red  65 Well-kept secret, for some 66 Cleo of jazz 67 Gal's guy 68 Each  
1 5 Causing goose bumps  42 Common lunch time  69 Wrapped up 10 Span. misses  
16 Bud's buddy  43 "Lid"  
17 Fashion  45 Heater  DOWN  
designer's work? 19 Total idiot 20 One way to cook spaghetti 21 Drill master? 23 Wife of Charlie  46 Animal lab technician's work? 51 Went underground 52 Fountain order  1 Ten, for openers 2 "-­be a cold day.:." 3 Like Clydesdales 4Wind  
Chaplin  53 Frost-free zone  instrument?  
25 A billion years  57 Three-masted  s Dopes  
26 Sequel writer's  ship  & Forward  
work?  62 Wet behind the  1 Electrifying  
33 Clock sound  ears  swimmer  
8 Rainless  
9 Movie theater  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 High schooler 11 Hardly beauty pageant types 12 "Bonanza" brother 
22 Delivery from Santa 
26 Dictation taker 21 50's leader 28 201, classically 
... -shall die" ("It Must Be Him" lyric) 
~ M'< PLA.N 15 TO SPENO ~ j THE. R£.ST OF l"\Y LU"E ~ ~ 1:N AN OLO COFFE.£ ;:; 
~ ~
I CANi EXPERIENCING ~ it NOTHING,. HENCE, ~ ~ I/11\MORT~LIT't'. 3 ~ 
~ ~ 

9 
~ 
"O 
Puzzle by Nancy Salomon 

medalist 32 Night spot 36 Neighbor of 
Bulg. 37 Crack, so to 
speak 38 Hero 40 Vatican figures 41 First lady 44 Filling danger 470ne of the 
buddies of "Bosom Buddies" 
consume control 49 Like some vows 58 Place on piles 50Troubles 59 Bombard 53 Green flanker 60 Scat artist 54 Vogue 
Fitzgerald 
61 Vitamin bottle info co-star 64 Vane dir. 
55 "The Godfather" 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
1-tO W WAS YOUR !=IR5T WEEK OF 
IMMORT P..LIT'<? 


YOUR HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Troy Donahue, Donna Reed, Bridget Fonda, Tracy Lawrence, Chris Collinsworth, Mimi Rogers, Frank Augustyn 
Happy Birthday: You'll be quick­witted and eager to go this year. Put your plans in motion. He who hesi­tates this year will lose. Recognize your talents and present them to those willing to support your efforts and make money in the process. This is not the lime to sit back and watch others take the lead. You have what it takes to move into a position of leadership. Your numbers: 5, 14, 28, 37, 39, 47 
ARIES (March 21·April 19): Your outgoing nature will bring you popu­larity. You can get a lot done if 1ou focus on your goals. Today wil be favorable for pursuing members of the opposite sex. Leave time to go to the gym. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't hesitate to take the advice offered by friends and relatives. Not only will their suggestions be helpful, but they will also relieve your stress. Don't make unreasonable promises. 
000 

GEMINI (May 21-June :ZO): Make sure you spend some time with your lover today. A passionate evening is in order for the two of you. Travel or plans lo take a vacation together should be discussed. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): ll's time to make those personal changes you have been thinking about for some time now. It is 6esl not lo divulge too much about your person­al life to your business associates. 
000 

LEO (JULY 23-AUG. 22): Your col­orful personality will attract members of the opposite sex. Take a position of leadership in group endeavors. Don't 
Birthday Baby: You have an intellectual approach lo everything )'Ou do Your innate understanding of others will allow you to insightfully direct those less able to find their way. You are strong. compassionate and eager to help. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) Cl 1999 Universal Press Svndicatc 
¦ OF INTEREST 

Thei:-e will be a Vigil Mass in honor of St. Thomas Aquina$>at 5 p.m. today in the Alumni Hall Chapel. Gregorian ehant will be performed by the Schola Musicorum. 
Helpful Hints for Interviewing -Today there will be a session on interviewing for service positions from 5 to 6 p.m. at the CSC. 
Rev. Virgilio Elizondo of the Mexican-American Cultural Center and San Antonio Hispanic Television Station will lecture on The Church and Latin Amr,rican Culture tonight at 7 p.m. in C-103 of the llesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The Experimental Learning Council invites you to a hospitality luncheon on Thursday from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m, at the CSC. The cost is $3. 
Children and po\'erty coordinators needed to orga• nize and facilitate a one-week fall or spring break CSC seminar. Interested students should pick up applica­tions at the CSC. Call Erika (4-1498) or Marjorie (4­1523) for more info. Applications aro due Friday. 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
-
EUGENIA LAST 
hesitate to take that trip you've bet,n needing. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 2.2): Don't trust anyone when it comes to finan­cial matters. Joint ventures show apparent deception. Don't overspend on the ones you love. Quality time is more worthwhile. 00 
LIBRA (SepL 23-0ct. 22): Residen­tial changes are in order. Take care of the needs of those less able to do things for themselves. You can learn new skills or pick up valuable in· formation if you listen to others. 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Elders in your family may need assis­tance. Don't let them put unreason­able demands on you. Don't overre­act to criticism. Overspending on your home will cause limitations. 
000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):, 
There will be tension with your lover if you allow a misunderstanding to get out of hand. Compromise will be necessary. You must pay more atten­tion to one another. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22.-Jan. 19): You will want lo get things done today, and anyone who gets in your way had better watch out. Your high­energy mood will leave you with little patience for anyone or anything. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be desperate for companionship. Mental stimulation will be a must in relationships and friendships. Sign up for seminars that perk your inter­est. Travel should be on your list. 
00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emo­tional setbacks will occur if you haven't resolved the problem your relationship faces. Get those domestic chores done and stop stewing about who is going to help you. 00 

The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name _______________________ Address ____________________ City ________ State ____·Zip______ 
. .. . . 
.., i •. -•• 

.• ......
.. :'.•• -;.• t ~ •• ·-. •.~ ..... ~ 
31 1936 track gold 48 Safe to 56 Veer out of 



¦ Sports columnist ¦ Pat Garrity inks deal John Coppolella writes with Phoenix Suns for on the misfortunes of first season in NBA. the Chicago Bears. 
PORTS 
p.18 p. 16 
page 20 oisiRvER Wednesday, January 27, 1999 

¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 7 Irish still rolling in Big East with win over 'Cuse 

tory. 

The Irish opened the game 011 a 22-5 run and quickly jumped out to a 29-9 lead with 12:08 left in the first half. Notre Dame never looked hack. 
Captain Sheila McMillen struggled in the first half, scoring just three points on 1-of-7 shooting. ThP senior came out strong in the sec­ond, however, and finished with 23 points to lead all Irish scorers. McMillen, who also pulled down eight rebounds and had five assists, connected on just 3-of-11 shots from downtown, but made up for it by going a perfect 8-for-8 at the
... 
foul line. McMillen has now scored 20 or more points in five of her last seven games. 
Center Ruth Riley had a big game for Notre Dame, scoring 20 points on 9-of-13 shooting. She and Kelly Siemon (nine points) dominated the inside against a Syracuse team that does not have a single player over 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 5-foot-11. 

Sherisha Hills (left), who had a huge game off the bench last Saturday against St. John's, was 
Riley finished with seven 
again a presence on the court, scoring four in 19 minutes of play. 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Edaor 

If Syracuse was to have any chance against the seventh-ranked Notre Dame women's basketball team last night, they were going to need a big game out of Paula l\foore. 
They didn't get it. Moore, the Big East's se-cond­lnacling scorer, 
rebounds and live blocked shots. 

The Irish scored half of their points in the paint, hut had an off night from.three-point land. Notre Dame was a combined 7-of-23 from brhind the arc. 
Niele Ivey was another bright sµot for the Irish, as she dished out eight assists and had 1<) points nn 7-of-10 shooting. Danielle Green added nine points and freshman 
Ericka llaney f'in­
walked off the court 


JRE DAME 94 
ished with eight.
Notre Dame shot
with just one point 

nearly 51 percent
and finished with 
as a team.
just eight, as Notre 

The Irish defense
Uame rolled to its 

was there oncn
seventh-straight 

SYRACUSE 6 
again l'or head
win -a 94-61 vie· 

coach Muffet McGraw. Notre Dame forced 25 turnovers and held Syraf'use to just 34 percent shooting from the field. McGraw's squad had 14 steals, while committing just 14 turnovers. The Irish also blocked eight shots. 
Syract1se's Beth lfocord connect­Pd on 5-of-9 three pointers and fin­ished with a carper-high 24 points to lead all scorers. JaimP Jami's added 14 for the OrangPwomen. Moorn, who averages 17.9 points per contPst and was coming off two double-doubles, was just 2-of-l 2 from the field. 
With the win, Notrn Damn improves to 16-2 on llrn season and stands alonn in third place in the Rig Easl standings with a 8-2 con­ference mark. Syracuse fell to 8-10 on the season and 4-6 in the con­ference. 
Notre Dame will travel to Providence on Saturday, beforn 
returning home for a  critical game  
against  Boston  College  next  
Wednesday.  

¦ Mrn's TENNIS 
Badgers drop to Irish eighth straight time 
Special to The Observer gles lineup to beat Wisconsin for the eighth straight time on MADISON, Wis. Tuesday in a 5-2 win over the-The 23rd-ranked Notre Dame 63rd-ranked Badgers. The win men's tennis team swept the improves the Irish to 3-0 on the 
doubles and used straight set see TENNIS/ page 17
wins from the top half of its sin­
-

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

Third-ranked Ryan Sachire set the pace with a win in No. 1 singles. 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre D~lneishoots -to rebou-nd 
ByALLISON KRILLA Assc>ciare-Spom Edit9r 
-fi~ •som~;~a,ys•. the a~•~~nce tl'.f tir&'y•i Murphy from. the Fighting Irish Hneiip has been good for Notre D~me. 
. Although the team ha~r compiled justa 
•1··2 .record siµ.ce Murp .-anlde i,;-ijq,ry.,
Jo5:irlgits Iea,dfng scotl;l · . . . pushe{t1'e ' remaining< players to i;J' brink. New offensive threats have emerged from t.he freshman forwarcl's shadow. 
Without Murphy's 18.. 2 points pl;lr. £if1<rrl#,·S~VfMl• unsm1g•.Wrr'&ti!,s h,a,v!} rtiltgl;l: . 
· their presehQe known;dfttluding thehigh · man in lastSaturday's heartbreaking two-point loss to Rutgers, Martin Ingelsby. 
,1,T~e ppiet ~uard Jr?!R·Jlpil~d.l;lJptiJa,,:Pimn; tossed rn a cnreerfh1gh 22 po1r1ts ·• against -the Scarlet Knights: while shad•· QWing Rutgers senior sharp-shoo~er Geoff Billet. Seniors Phil Hickey ,;1nd Al:ltoni Wyche also turneq)n all~star.cal•·· _.wer;perfor;maijce1t.• tr:ul;v;;~~Ul{\etj~g' .t.peyr· i;osponslbilit\es they m;,qepted as.ttl{tm,
captains. . ' ,. " . <.. "Our kids riever gave up, and made a l?ig sui;ge at the end,t'! .~oath JoJm ~att;,eofl said followi'ng"'Saturdd~'s'

liea:rtbreak~f/i , •,if rt,> The Observer/Jet! Hsu Martin lngelsby will again be called to step up his game see M.BBALL/ page.17 · with Troy Murphy out with an ankle injury. 
Men's Tennis 

vs. Michigan
at Providence 
vs. Texas 

. Saturday, 7 p.m. 
SPORTS 

Saturday, 7 p.m. ~ Saturday, 2 p.m. 
ATA 
Women's Tennis 

Track and Field
at Boston College 
vs. Kansas State 

vs. Indiana
Today, 7:30 p.rn. 
at Oklahoma City, OK

Friday, TBA 
GLANCE 
Saturday, 2 p.m. 






