


VOLXXXII NO. 84 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
DECISIONS IN LONDON 
Board says 'no' to Big Ten 


By CHRISTINE KRALY Assi.st;1111 News Editor 
Politics, l'ootball and swan genocide sparked both discus­sion and yawns Sunday night at the presidential debates held in LaFortune Ballroom. 
Led by emcees Denis Ilurlcy and Andrew McDonnell ot' the llumor Artists, the long discus­sion was intended to introduce the candidates lo the general public. who were encouraged to ask questions after the panel inquiry. The discussion was characterized by repeated questions concerning student government budgets and alle­gations of inexperience. 
"I'm not a government insid­er," said presidential candi­date Scan Deschene. "[I plan to] figure it out as I go." 
Deschene, referring to he and his running mate Mike Revers, proclaimed "we really are two common guys." The pair were among many candi­dates who not only admitted their inexperience in govern• ment, but presented it as a potential advantage. 
"New faces would bring in fresh ideas," said vice-presi­dential hopeful Daniel Chucta. 

whose main campaign focus seems to be his upcoming fifth­year senior status. "What wo need is a fresh, new face to balance it [student govern­ment] out," he added, noting that witnessing four years of student government could be a positive attribute in his leader­ship skills. 
Chucta, who is running with freshman Brian Clemency, joined others in pushing the need lo rid studpnt govern­ment or its "business-as-usual" traditions and introduce innov­ative ideas to the Univ1)rsity. 
"[We want tol bring Notre Dame into tlw 21st Century," said Deschene, whose platform includes improving the University's communications, 
see DEBATE / page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, February 8, 1999 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
utside the Dome 
Jumping at 
Compiled from U-Wire repons 

Organization attempts to revive Affirmative Action 
theJACC 
dent senate. He said be was
BERKELEY, Calif. 
approached because "they have seen
Hoping to bring affirmative action 

The arena was rocking and the team was pumped, Students had been lined up for tick­ets since four and now 
filled the JACC with Mike Connolly 
their boisterous cries. Sports Copy Editor Turning the JACC into the most hostile 2,667­capacity hockey arena in the country. the hecklers were ready to make life difficult for the Spartans' goaltender. Anyone who was at the Michigan State game on Friday night knew what an important game it was and tried to do everything they could to excite the team. 
Everyone, except the guy who selected Third Eye Blind's "Jumper" as one of the songs for the band to play. 
I don't know. maybe it's just me, but songs about suicide just don't get me all that excit­ed. 
Don't get me wrong, I love the hand. Their rendition of the fight song is incredible and the "Celtic War Chant" is one of the most excitement inducing songs that I have ever heard. 
But "Jumper" has got to go. 

As I see it, the job of the band is to comple­ment the action on the field with songs that heighten the excitement. f can't speak for everyone, but the topic of suicide tends to make me feel depressed. 
What will the band play next? How about the theme song from MASH: "Suicide is Painless". Or maybe that uplifting Guns and Roses classic "November Rain"? Sticking to more current music, the band could make the crowd depressed by selecting "Brick" by Ben Folds Five. 
Just being popular does not make a song appropriate for a hockey game. 
I understand that the band cannot play the "Hey Song" and "We Will Rock You" at every intermission. A large selection of songs allows the band to sound fresh and exciting so as not to bore the crowd. But come on, there are plenty of other great songs that the band could play besides "Jumper". 
What about Queen's "Another One Bites the Dust"? Or maybe the theme from Beverly Hills Cop? I am not a music expert so I don't know if it would be possible for the band to arrange these songs, but there must be something else they can play. 
The "Imperial March" would also fit the tone of a hockey game better than "Jumper". Heck, the theme song from Sesame Street fits hockey better than "Jumper"; at least Sesame Street is happy. 
Let me stress again that I like the band. I think they are a wonderful part of the Notre Dame athletic tradition. But every time I hear them start up "Jumper", it makes me want to leap to my death from the top of the hockey bleachers. Fortunately, since the bleachers are so small, I would probably sur­vive. 
So strike up "Back in Black", "Brown Eyed Girl" and "Zoot Suit Riot" hut please, leave "Jumper" off the playlist. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Christine Kraly  Mike Vanegas  
Dave Pressly  Graphics  
John Bourgeois  Scott Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Kati Miller  Kathleen Lopez  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Brittany Morehouse  Liz Lang  

Th, Observt1 (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during c,ram and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhr Associated Pn:ss. All «production righu •~ rw,m,d. 
back into the UC system, the ASUC Senate has passed a bill asking California Gov. Gray Davis to change the face of the UC Board of Regents. 
The university's student government approved a bill Wednesday night, writ­ten and sponsored by Senator Arian White. that asks Davis to fill the five currently open seats on the board with affirmative action proponents. 
"I think (the bill) will have impact in that it will complement other actions." White said. "However, by itself, it is not that powerful." 
A different form of the bill was origi­nally written by Heather Bergman, a member of the Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action by Any Means Necessary, a campus pro-affirmative action group. White said Bergman approached him with the bill to try to get it through the senate. He later 
¦ RUTGERS UNIVERSITY 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER 


5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
~~~adl4~ (f • clJ1a 
S~~',; r.;,;;,;s Rain ~~;~~. ·ti· -=;~-=-Sunny Pl.~~~ ·~~~ 
8u!!r~i~tey
California 

altered the bill and wrote the official draft. 
One of the changes that Cal-Serve member White made to the bill before senators passed it was replacing the word "demand" with the much less­forceful word "ask." 
"It is only right that we give the gov­ernor an opportunity to (further affir­mative action efforts) without demand­ing it," White said. 
White, who is not affiliated with BAMN. is not the only supporter of affirmative action policies in the stu­me fight for affirmative action in thep­ast, and I am a visible person." 
He added that he appealed to Davis because "as of now. I see Davis as someone who has a responsibility to help because people who elected him are the people who would benefit from affirmative action policies." 
The bill also asks for the voluntary resignation of UC Regent Ward Connerly, who led the campaign to ban race and gender preferences in the UC system in 1995 and state wide through Proposition 209 inl996. 
"I firmly believe that Connerly's cru­sade to abolish affirmative action poli­cies is a tool to assist him in his politi­cal goals," White said. 
Further, according to the bill, "(Connerly) has done immeasurable harm to the lives and futures of count­less numbers of students." 

Cohabitation may lead to divorce 
NEW BRUNSWICK. N.J. 
Rutgers University's National Marriage Project released a report this week that found people considering marriage should play hard to get to shelve divorce. According to the reports. couples who live together before marriage have a significantly higher incidence of divorce after rings are exchanged, said David Popenoe, co-director of the project, a small, privately funded research group. "Living together before marriage -far from actually creating happier marriages, which is sometimes the intention -actually leads to a higher divorce rate," Popenoe. a professor of sociology, said. "Every study we examined found the same thing -living together before marriage led to a higher divorce rate after marriage.' The most groundbreaking revelation of the report was a possible explanation as to why cohabitational relationships tend to crumble after marriage, Popenoe said. 
¦ OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 

Former student arrested for murder 
COLUMBUS 

Campus-area students and residents might sleep a little easier this weekend after the arrest of a former Ohio State student who police believe could be responsible for a string of murders and robberies. Carlo Lamarr-Marquis Owens was arrested early Thursday morning and charged with two counts each of aggravated murder and aggravated robbery in connection with recent crimes committed in the campus area. Owens was enrolled at OSU during the Autumn 1997 and Winter 1998 quarters, according to an OSU statement released Thursday. Various police and University officials said that as a stu­dent Owens lived in Halloran House and was a member of ROTC. He tried to join the OSU track team. but failed to meet NCM qualifications. "This connection adds to the sadness and regret the university community feels about the situation," the OSU statement read. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA 
Police arrest student's mother 
LAS VEGAS 

The mother of a UNLV student was arrested for burglary and dissuading a witness in Boyd Residential Hall Friday. according to UNLV Police Sergeant Don Drake. Barbara Ann Terpening, 55, allegedly entered the building around 11:30 
p.m. with the help of a former male resident advisor, said Drake. Allegedly, her intent was to intimidate a student wit­ness into changing his statement about a rape which was reported in the residence halls last month, he said. According to a telephone conversation with Terpening, the alleged sexual assault involved accusations against her son. Robert Brown. "The crime she was intending to commit was dissuading a witness," said Drake. "She didn't threaten to harm him, she was just badgering him." However, according to Drake, Terpening never should have been able to enter the dorm. "The person who let her in was a former R.A.," said Drake, adding, "I guess he still had the keys." 
¦ MISSISSIPPI STATE UNIVERSITY Religious organizations lose funding 
STARKVILLE, Miss. 

The Student Association Senate decided Wednesday not to fund "politically partisan or religious" groups and passed a resolution recommending the reestablishment of several vol­unteer shifts at the campus radio station, WMSV. The first bill stated, "Programs or activities financially supported by the SA may in no way be politically partisan or religious." Groups determined by the SA attorney general to be parti­san or religious will no longer be able to receive SA funds. Senator J.D. Shaw said University officials recommended the bill after the SA decided to give money to Campus Crusade for Christ for a trip last semester. Shaw said though many organizations of this nature request money. funding them was "best not handled within the SA." Other business dis­cussed was a proposal by senators Patrick Bergin and Eric Sholes, who recommended that WMSV reconsider a decision to reduce the number of volunteer disc jockey shifts. 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 8. 
20S Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
O 1999 AccuWnthor, tnc.

~""-~-,"---'---'--'----------------------­
® High  © Low  B Shower  ¦  ~ Rain  c:TI 1 ... tonn1  f:;::::1 Flurriff  1~~"~:,j Snow  ~ Ice  0 Sunny  ~• @~t'i Pt Cloudy Cloudy  
Manta Boston Chicago Cleveland  68 35 50 40  49 28 23 32  Dallas BO New York 42 Palm Beach 80 Philadelphia 45  42 36 62 35  Phoenix St Louis Seattle San Diego  72 60 45 62  50 37 35 56  

Monday, February 8, 1999 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Administrators, trustees dedicate new building 
By PETER FOlAN 
London Correspondent 
LONDON 

At a dr.dication ceremony for the new site of tho London Program in Trafalgar Square, University President Father Edward Malloy declared the dodication to be "the roal rea­son we came here." 
Members of the Board of Trustees and University admin­istrators gathered Saturday at Marian Kennedy Fischer Hall, named in honor of the mother of Notre Dume alumnus Charles Fischer, wh(), along with his family, underwrote the renova­Lion of the building.. 
Tim building. at 27.000 feet is morn Llmu double the size of the University's former London site. 
Located on the corner of Suffolk Street and Pall Mall, directly adjacont to the Sainsbury Wing of the National Gallery provides an ideal loca­tion for students. 
"Wo have this wonderful city around us to learn from and enjoy, but at the same time, an asylum from some ol' this cra:t.i­1wss in Notn• Dame's building," said junior Jeff Harrington. a studnnl participating in the London l'rugram. 
Dominique Etcheverry agreed. "The Joca tion of the building right on the edge or Trafalgar Square is basically the heart of in paintings, and analyzed more tinued to be used for this pur­laboratories and either described the main features of the city." cuts in sculptures than I had pose until 1979. Macintosh or Personal the building. 
The location of the building ever thought possible." The British School of Computers. "All of the computers are has also led to a focus on line The London program's build­Osteopathy then took control of All of these systems are con­wired for the Ethernet network arts in curriculum for students. ing has a history that spans the building, and held it until nected to the Notre Dame serv­through the University of 
I.earning to appreciate the since before Notre Dame even Notre Dame acquired the build­er, and allow students access to London," said Burchett. "We expansive cultural offerings has came into existence. ing in the early 1990s. e-mail, the Internet and instant have 50 Windows and 20 been enjoyable for Andy The original structure on the The building has also been messaging services. Macintosh computers. Mitchel. site was built in 1823 as a gen­technologically equipped for Brian Burchett, on-site techni­"The building's technology is a 
''I've heard more melismas in tlemen's club for graduates of students. Students can choose cal support person for Office of major improvement over the operas, seen more brush strokes Oxford and Cambridge and con-from three different computer Information Technologies, former home of tho Program." 

Who has over 200 Notre Dame grads in over 40 U.S. offices? 
Deloitte & the answer ,• s Touche 0 
Deloitte & Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate; and promote without regard to race, religion,. creed, color, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, or veteran status. 
©1999 Deloitte & Touche LLP. 



THE FIRST BURGER ENGINEERED 
-Stipend 

WITH TAKE-OUT IN MtND. 
All Notre Dame JUNIORS 

with a demonstrated interest in Irish studies are encouraged to apply . 
If interested, please pick up an application from the 
Keough Institute for Irish Studies 1146 Flanner Hall 
Applications are due by Friday, March 26, 1999 
page 4· 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
specifically making DARTing and registration available through the Notre Dame web­site. 
Between Hurley and McDonnell's attempts to light­en the crowd, the candidates sounded off about ways to improve campus life, including interculLural relations. 

"{The I University would like more multicultural profes­sors," said Stephen Robey, vice-presidential candidate whose running mate, Cynthia Turski, was absent from the discussion. Robey, who strug­gled to represent his ticket on his own, reminded the audi­ence of the duo's plan to diminish bookstore traffic with a separate express lane, espe­cially on football weekends, when a "sea of alumni [is] just there." 
As the candidates delved into political aspects of their plat­forms, the audience grew sparse when listeners began to flee the two-hour discussion. 
'Tm definitely gonna stick up for you guys," Micah Murphy told a dwindling audience. 
EP'6C,N0\.-11CALLY E}J6i/NE'E F<E"P -----, NEV~R TO ::if'ILL °"~E.T f..1E55Y 
2 '.:>LICE$ OF CHEE~ ----. GECURE.LY ANCH0/11.. fLAMl:•MOILED PATTIES 
UNIVE'~$AL a.J~E 
CU~HION-S AND 
CIUIDL-E!:> 
PRECIOU~ C/;,lUEO 
"I ISl<'.AM':> !<ETCHUP 
,~RAM"' MU§-TA~D 
STAe>ll..lZE \.-\01'J'ZONTAL. 
~EF~!FT':> 

Murphy, a presidential candi­date whose goal is to establish airport shuttles for students traveling home on breaks, added 'Tm willing to take a few risks." 
"I think we're all missing the point here," said presidential hopeful Bill Kuder. "All we care about is football ... ii's so important [to the University]." Kuder, who along with run­ning mate Joe Priest, high­lighted the importance Notre Dame football as not only a financial but morale booster for the University. "Think back to when we beat Michigan," added Kuder, who said football has the ability to uplift or destroy the spirit of the whole campus. 
The Kuder/Priest ticket was not alone in their unique approach to the evening's dis­cussion. 
"( have no personal politics," said Luke White, editor-in­chief of Right Reason, who received a standing ovation for his guitar tribute encouraging the murder of all campus swans. 
Members of the panel, including representatives from Scholastic, The Observer, WSND. student government and Club Coordination Council, 
The Observer/Joe Stark 

Presidential hopeful Luke White entertains the debate crowd while articulating his platform Sunday night in 
LaFortune Ballroom. His running mate, Dan Hennigan, looks on. 
grilled the political hopefuls on mate, who feels that the way issues such as past student to improve student involve­governments and budget ment with government is to spending. "talk to hall presidents. hall 
"[The] goal of the office of councils." President is to bring issues to "I just don't want to go to tho the office itself," said Mike hall councils ... we want to go Palumbo, Murphy's running beyond that," said Chana 
Jayme, who along with partner 
Announcing the 4th Annual Keough Summer Internships in 
Ireland 
The Internships will include: -Eight to ten weeks' internship -Round trip airfare -Room and Board 
social event. 
"[I] had nothing to do with it," said Murphy. trying to defend his actions. "[I was just having a] fun time, just making stuff up." 
The newly-refreshed audi­ence was treated to a sock puppet debate between White's right and left hands. White, answering questions about his own political beliefs. mocked the audiences inquiries by responding with sock puppets. 
"(There isl absolutely no good reason for a woman not to be president," said Jayme, when asked why there had yet to be a female student body president. 
White attributed this to a woman's lack of sufficient strength to rip a swan's head off. 
Voting will take place Monday in residence halls and in the Cl parking lot for off­campus students. 
%-SAME 5 EED? INCRE:Af7Fr PAI.MANO 
fll-JGSF< TRACTION 
TV\IIN PICt<J..1=.'.:> 
FOP, ~A~NC5D ~HOC/' ~/Z-PTION 

Dan Peatc, reminded the audi­ence of their "overarching goal" of giving back to the stu­dents. 
"We want the students to tell us what they want," she added, noting that it is impor­tant to "get out there ... get to know everybody." 
The audience was brought into the discussion when Murphy was faced with allega­tions from one crowd member of disregarding students' feel­ings. According to the student, Murphy had supposedly dressed as and impersonated a homosexual male prostitute and imitated a mentally handi­capped person at a Keough 


¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
NASA launches spacecraft to 
collect comet dust 
CAPE CANAVERAL. Fla. 

A comet-chasing spacecrafl named 
Stardust rocketed away Sunday on a seven• 
year, 3 billion-mile quest to bring back pre­
cious comet dust. Stardust began its formida­
ble journey one day late, soaring into a clear 
afternoon sky aboard a Boeing Delta rocket. 
A last-minute radar problem on Saturday 
rnrnrnd tho delay. NASA's Stardust mission is 
the l'irsl altumpt to gather material from 
beyond the moon and return it to Earth. 
l1 is also the firsL time NASA has sent a robot 
on an oxtrat1)rrestrial pic.:kup and delivery 
mission, The last time the agency went after 
samples in outer space wus Apollo 17 in 
1972. the last of tho manned lunar landings. 
"Not only do we have to get to where we're 
going ... but then we've got to turn around 
and come home again," said Carl Pilcher. 
China frees political prisoner 
BEIJING 

A Chinese dissident reiterated his innocence Sunday aflnr being released early from a 12­year s1mt1mce, saying he played no part in pro­democracy protests that landed him in jail. Sun Weibang, 56, was released Thursday from Weifang prison in eastern Shandong province after having served more than 9 112 years. He was arrested in Qingdao after a government crackdown on pro-democracy protests cen­tered on Beijing's Tiananmen Square in 1989. Sun ran a small restaurant and provided free food lo protesting students. Although he said he played no part in the demonstrations them­selves, he was sentenced for anti-government "propaganda and incilement." More than 2,000 people remain in jail from the nation­wide wave of arrests that followed the Tiananmen Square crackdown, according to the Hong Kong-based Information Center of Human Hights and Democratic Movement in 
Polite girls arrested in robbery 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 

Two teen-age girls charged with robbery were extrnordinarily polite, so polite they got caught. The girls walked into a shoe store Thursday and asked employee Sonya Graham for n pen and paper. One wrote a note, then handed it to the worker, saying, "I'm sorry to do this. You're so nice." The note said: "I have a gun in my pants, give me all the money." "You came at a bad time," the worker said. "I have a customer to wait on." The would-be robbers offered to wait, police said, so the worker walked to the back of the store and triggered the store's silent alarm system. She then went back to the counter and stalled the suspects until police arrived. "They were real nice," said police LL Hoy Williams, adding that the girls were armed with a toy cap pistol. 
--WJffl.ffli£@,ilf4.-M
AMEX·

D
ow 706.2i 
JONES -o.s6 
Nasdaq:

-0.26 
2373.62 


-36.4:, 
NYSE: 587.29 -3.76 
S&P 500: Composite 
1239.40 Volume: 
-9.09 856,000,000

9304.24 
VOLUME LEADERS 

SOMIINJ ftCAI , s1tm• ICYIWI fltCI 
Ott.L C011PU'nm DBLl. ·1, 89 -l ,J9S,o 100,44 
OELPHl A.UTO OPH ~ 8. 4. 7 d,4400 H!,44 
rm-rt. CORP INTC -1,!r/ -'.,L 'lO~O 127. 5-fi 
M.lCROSOF'T CO~P HSFT +O. 59 +O .tl?~ 1'0.00 
C UCO BY.STEMS rsco •J ,BO -4 ,aoao tal ,.25 
C'OMT"AQ COM:PU'I'Ek CPO -'2. '1'8 -1.2SOO 4) 75 
APPLIED KATEJHA -.T · 1.7:i -1.0600 60. 69 
OilACLE CORli ORCL -, .64 -2,l24'5 SIEi,19 
SPRINT CORP PCS • 2, 19 tO. 681'jO ,. 31 
SUH H!C'rt'OEYST'Df 5UNW ~1.6"'1 -l .1550 JOO. 6l 
¦ JORDAN 

AsSOCIATED PRESS 
AMMAN 

Jordan crowned an untested new monarch Sunday and plunged into mourning for its beloved King Hussein. Distraught citizens sobbed in the streets and world leaders converged on the desert kingdom, united in grief for the statesman who built bridges for peace in the turbulent Middle East. 
The deep political divides between those planning to attend Monday's elaborate state funeral served as a powerful reminder of Hussein's far­reaching abilities as a mediator and leader -skills that lifted Jordan into a place of international prominence. 
"Even the sky is crying," an announcer on Jordanian television declared as a rare, dripping fog shrouded the city after the king died at 
11:43 a.m. (4:43 a.m. EST) from can­
cer in a hospital. Black flags fluttered from the few taxicabs plying the streets. The wail of Koranic verses of mourning filled the country's mosques and residents wept on the sidewalks of Amman, Jordan's hilly capital. 
Hussein, who survived repeated assassination attempts as he walked the tightrope of Mideast politics, suc­cumbed after a seven-month battle with lymphatic cancer. He had lingered unconscious on a respirator for two days after returning home to Jordan last week to die. 
Courtiers, Jordanian officials and members of the royal family, including his dozen children and his wife, the American-born Queen Noor, had kept a vigil at the king's bedside while thou­sands of citizens sobbed at the hospital gates. 
In keeping with Islamic tradition, the funeral will be held quickly -an enor­mous procession through Amman just 24 hours after Hussein's heart gave out. 
The elaborately plotted protocols, although, reflected real-life regional tensions. The Israeli delegation, for example, was to be kept closer to Western leaders than to leaders from harder-line Arab states, palace sources said. 
President Clinton and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton were among those planning to attend. 
Underscoring Jordan's determination that the transition be swift and smooth, Hussein's eldest son Abdullah, 37, was sworn in just four hours later in parlia­ment. 
Before pledging to do his best to serve the country, the new king paused before a life-sized portrait of his father. 
"This is God's judgment and God's will," Abdullah, a veteran military man but a political novice, told the nation in a televised address. "God have mercy on Hussein the father, the brother, the commander and the man .... We will preserve Hussein's legacy." 
,r,·.·.ce begin "-'e~nt·t}thn.tc•Albatilan.
' ''.'tli~' two sides were driven to the n-egotiating table by throat of NATO 
........· Jfjtstrikes agµ.inst Yug{>slav President t(U' ·<~lt>pQda.n Milosevic:. aud to\1gh mea• 
•· ~~j;\J$.Ht~~~gairi~tt~e I<LA to· llalt its arms 
;. ; , ;~,i,ipplfos and fln4ncJng. 
.... , • ti\ie,, r'J~he Contact Group -.:. made up of :~~,{~4,i~ c9~-· tpe United States. nussia, France, · · · ,:, : ..· Btitain, Germany and Italy -devised ~,tn:~; t.~,Jral'l.l~WOf~ agreriment bas1.1d Oil ... . .·• ·,.. , ..... µ;i;y •··· ,.tn.i work of Q,~; m~dintor Christopher
·W~t. ipofficial f(iU.~l}c.l;lj;:ef~ldr>nt$:, .., The negoUa:t!ng tN\ms wtm, Mt 
le,fp ¢W1iJrm th~ . 

,Jl),aeting face•J()•fai;:e. Instead, iute1· • . 'P'~tI9,o,al m,~~lators were shuttling 
/;l~J;J; t~PQ.ot;s .of'.thl;lJ11ag1µ1icent . · 11.li; 30 n1Hes south ofParii,. \ the two sides were presented with 
the full text of the Contact Group plan 
unday. 
page 6 The Observer• NEWS Monday, February 8, 1999 
Clause 
continued from page I 
to a statement from the group. 
The Board of Fellows is a group of 12 Trustees who have specific responsibilities regard­ing Notre Dame's Catholic character, including University president Father Edward Malloy and executive vice president Father William Beauchamp. 
This decision, and the man­ner in which it was made, sparked quick student response, as supporters of the clause change held a sit-in Friday afternoon and vowed to continue pushing for an end to what they call unjust treat­ment of gay and lesbian stu­dents. 
"I have to say I'm angry, but I'm not surprised," said Mark Massoud, a student represen­tative on the standing commit­tee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs about the Boards decision. Massoud was one of about 30 people, mostly students, who sat in the lobby of Hayes-Healey -just outside Malloy's office -Friday after­noon protesting the decision and planning future action. 
¦ AUSTRALIA 
"We're just going to try to come up with concrete ways to keep fighting to get justice on this campus, because there isn't, and there wasn't, but one day there's going to be," he said. 
There has been significant campus activism in support of the clause change over the past year. The Academic Council and both the Student and Faculty Senates have passed resolutions supporting the move, numerous rallies and demonstrations have been held and, on Friday, 120 stu­dents wrapped up a three-day fast in support of the amend­ment. 
The closed nature of the decision, and the fact that it was made in December, only served to frustrate demonstra­tors further. 
"We were protesting all this time hoping to affect a decision that apparently had already been made," said Aaron Kreider of the Progressive Student Alliance. 
Faculty Senate chair Michael Detlefsen, an ardent supporter of the clause change, spoke to the demonstrating students on Friday, echoing their frustra­tion with the way the decision was made. 
"Let this also serve as a pow-
Republicans, voters look to replace English monarchy 
Associated Press 
CANBERRA 

Australia's justice minister today joined the republican campaign to dump Britain's Queen Elizabeth II as head of state and replace her with an Australian. 
Justice Minister Amanda Vanstone said she believed that national symbols are important and should touch a nation's heart -something the British monarchy no longer does. 
"I believe that every Australian child should be able to aspire to becoming Australia's head of state. There should be no discriminatory constitutional or statutory limitation on that aspiration," she said. 
Despite the support of Vanstone and others, republicans face an uphill battle in their campaign to pass a Nov. 6 refer­endum under which an Australian cho­sen by two-thirds of Parliament would lead the nation. 
A solid majority of Australians support a republic, according to polls, but they arc divided between backing a directly elected, U.S.-style president and a leader 
appointed by Parliament. If they remain split, 
Lessons That Will Last A Lifetime. 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Put that college degree to use by enrolling into the Air Force Officer Training School. Upon successful completion of the Officer Training School, you will become a commissioned Air Force officer with earned respect and benefits like -great starting pay, medical and 
dental care, management and travel 
AIM HIGH opportunities. For more on how to qualify -AIR-...llli........ and get your career soaring with the -FalCE...,....,...-Air Force Officer Training School, call 
1-800-423-USAF. or visit our website at www.airforce.com 
www.airforce.com 


January 23 -4:00 PM Deadline -January 21 February 6 -10:00 AM Deadline -February 4 February 13 -2:00 PM Deadline -February 11 
Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge Wear Layered Clothing and Worm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge 
Rec:-~ 

erful example of who has the decision-making power at this University." he said. "Obviously it's not made by the 
Canberra 

body that just met in London. A decision was made and car­ried to London." 
Sit-in participants took the 
opportunity to discuss strate­gies for future action to improve the climate for gays and lesbians at Notre Dame. 

Territory Chief Minister Kate Carnell said, "It is only republicans that can stop Australia from becoming a republic." 
For their part, monarchists are sneer­ing at the reform. Employment Services Minister Tony Abbott called the aban­donment of the monarch "a kind of national feel-good pill or constitutional Viagra." 
A holdover from the glory days of the British Empire, Australia -like other Commonwealth nations such as Canada and New Zealand -still recognizes the British monarch as head of state. 
And although that has almost no effect on national affairs, the queen's repre­sentative, the governor-general, has one crucial power -to dismiss a corrupt, abusive, or non-functional government. 
Then-Governor-General John Kerr used that power in 1975 when he sacked Labor Prime Minister Gough Whitlam's government and installed the conserva­tive opposition after the conservative­dominated Senate refused to pass a bud­get bill. 
The issue has also led some Australians to wonder who the queen roots for when her nation faces a former colony in an international forum. 
• ~ (I') ~ \? •
: '"Ji 'Va{entine's Vay .'Ads '"Ji : 
• 
• :for on{y $20 you can te{{your sweetheart Fi.ow •• : mucfi you {ave fiim/fi.er witfi a syecia[Vafentine's : • Vay ad' in 'Tne Observer. • 
• For ~ie,,(.\howtt,,ac:tuaL,w,,e,): • 
.•• ·-----------------.••: r.Lc,ve 1J"u, re,13/ 5ue!! : 
.• ---.• 
! • ~i,v,c\U~~ • ! 
. ---.
• 
• #-A-fl''! VA-lentim.'s J)r,.,o/! Lr,ve, 1$u~~o/ •• . ......................... . 
: 'Reserve your adsyace by :February wtfi, andyour Sweetheart : • .JI.awi{(be in Tfie Observer on :February 12tfi. .JI.[{ads (and • • money) must be turneain by :February ntfi at 11:00 am. • 
• Ca{{1-6900 or visit us in tfie basement ofSoutfi 'Dinino .J-(a{C • 
• 

Monday, February 8, 1999 The Observer • NEWS page 7 

Big Ten 
continued from page l 
Malloy. KTlrn decision was com­plnx. The decision transcends thP many individual factors, academic and athletic. The ulti­m ale [rationale behind the dllcisionl lies in a loss of insli-
6.9%APR 
On balance transfers 

Transfer those high-balance credit cards to your Notre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA or MasterCard and save. 
www.ndfcu.org 

(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 
~ ~gl~E:~~~~ 

'Tim srcc,,11 rate applies for the first~ months 011 balance trnnsfcrs only. Rate w,11 then 
n.!'vcrt hack ?o 14,Q211/n-. 11 docs no1 include exi~ting halanccs on any Notre Dame Fcdernl 
Credit Limon MasterCard nr VISA. Promnti,,n vulid January 8, !lirough March 3 l, I 999. ltu.lcpendcnt ofthe Univer.sity 
OIN' TO 
IA 


toss and turn at night, trying to 
figure out how to make their 
institution unique," said Hatch. 
Athletic director Mike 
Wadsworth said the Athletic 
Department made its decision 
regarding Big Ten membership 
last September after preparing 
a report for the oflir:ers of the 
University. 
''No new information was 
given to the athletic 
Department between 
September and December, so 
our decision ultimately was a 
unanimous 'No,"' said 
Wadsworth. 
In the end. the University's 
affiliation with the Big Hast 
athletir: conference proved to 
be a better match than the Big 
Ten. 
"The Big East conference is composed of many small. Catholic, private institutions," said Malloy. "We feel that they are a better fit for us than the Big Ten, which is composed of primarily large, public, region­al institutions. The school that would match most dosely with our identity is Northwestern. also a private institution. Evon Northwestern, though. is twice the size of Notre Dame." 

The Board of Fellows. the highest decision-making body at the University who are also responsible for appointing members of the Board of Trustees, decided against membership in the Big Ten on Dec. 1. Their decision, howev­er, was kept secret, pending approval of the Board of Trustees. 
From an academic perspec­tive, Malloy emphasized that the information exchange with the Big Ten was a valuable experience for Notre Dame and has caused the University to re­evaluate some of its academic independence. 
Joining the Big Ten would have given Notre Dame mem­bership in the Committee for Institutional Cooperation [ClC], 
the academic consortium of Big 
Ten schools. In a show of sup­
port for the academic benelits 
of joining the Big Ten, the 
Faculty Senate voted in favor of 
joining the CIC before the 
Board of Trustees meeting. 
"We must do more with con­
sortia! relationships," said 
Hatch. "The CIC is an ac:ndcmic 
consortium that membership 
would have boosted the pros­
tige of our graduate programs 
and allowed us to take part in 
faculty and student tixchanges 
as well as grant sharing. 
"We will have mechanisms 
this spring in place to look at a 
whide range of consortia! 
arrangements." 
In the coursr. of the University's dialogue with the Big Ten, Malloy said he raised the idea of membership in the CIC without membcwship in thn athletic aspect of the Big Ten, but was rebuffed by the ronfor­ence. 
With both athlotic and acildo­mic advantages and disadvan­tages ol' joining the Big Tt\n explored. the con(·!usion reached was to maintain inde­pend1mce. 
"We belitwe that indnpcn­dence continues to be our best way f'orward," said Malloy. "Wn look forward to maintaining and deepening our rnlation­ships Iwith members of Ow Big Ten), not as a member of the family, but as an old and close family friend." 
Student reaction in London to the Board of Trustees decision was positive. 'Tm glad we didn't join the Big Ten," said Chris Maciejak. "It would jeop­ardize Notre Dame's unique­ness." 
Another student, Jean McCue, agreed. "I was very pleased with [the University's] decision not to join thfl Big Ten. I felt that there was a clangor that the undergraduate pro­gram would have been nega­tively affected." 

tutional identity." 
If Notre Dame had joined the Big Ten. il would have been one of only two private univer­sities and the only member with a religious atliliation. 
''Notre Dame has a core iden­tity: Catholic, private, and inde­pendent. An association with Lhe Big Ten would only Jnvolvc one element of that identity, independence," said Malloy. "In our deliberations about joining the Big Ten, there was never the concern for our Catholic character being diminished." 
"Piscal factors were not a decisive determinant in the decision," Malloy added. 
Provost Nathan Hatch point­ed out that Notre Dame is in a position that other universities struggle to achieve. 
''Officers of other universities 

Got news? Call 1--5323 or come to the SDH basement. 

feb.11 &12 
feb.16 or23 
Regl.~ler @ Hl6 
0 d11y of clm,.!I

!Bfoo,fll'ressure 
h:b.16 4-6 feb.18 11-1 
m, 311, L11forlunc 

Sponsored 6y 'R.!rSports, l'R]SJfea t 1, nt :Heaftfi )ldin:Sory cBoard; 'first Jf it{ Service,· 'Team, 'Women's 'RJsourcc Center, Office of..!lfrofto( <1,'l; 1Dnig 'Lducatiorr 
Celcbrntc American Ncart ~onth with 
AffAIR~ Of T ( NU.RT 

()P]{_CCass 
6-9 
R~RC 

VIEWPOINT 

All of us in the Notre Dame community tend to be obsessed with polls. Every autumn the AP college football poll serves to fuel all manner of speculation and dispute. The yearly U.S. News rankings of top American universities, graduate and law schools, carry a par­ticularly heavy weight with the admin­stration, but the student body tends to keep tabs on where we stand in that respect as well. Our community is ever cognizant of our position in relation to the rest of the pack. Perhaps this is why Friday's decision regarding the Big Ten and the Committe for Institutional Cooperation, while essentially a fore­gone conclusion. was nonetheless fer­vently discussed in the days leading up to its resolution. Yet another reason might have been the fact that two seg­ments of our community elected not to side with the majority. 
The Faculty Senate voted to join the Committe for Institutional Cooperation, the Big Ten's academic counterpart, while the Graduate Student Union chose not to pass any resolution regarding the decision. These bodies serve the pur­pose of representing academic interests in the decision making process on issues affecting the life of the University. To this end, their decision to support, or refrain from opposing Big Ten member­ship was sufficient reason to pause before riding the wave of popular momentum that existed throughout the many levels of the Notre Dame commu-· nity. Indeed, if our purpose is to be the foremost Catholic institution of higher learning, and the representative body of our professors suggests we take an action to improve our stature, it gives rise to certain reservations when we chose not to. We know where we ulti­mately want to be, the question before us was whether or not we were under­mining our ability to get there. 
To understand why the answer is no, we must pause and recognize how Notre Dame's history plays out in relation to the rest of the academic institutions we so love to compete with. In the U.S. News and World Report list of the top twenty-five universities, Notre Dame is an odd fit with its peers. Others are religiously affiliated, but not in so pro­nounced a way as we are. The Ivy League institutions stand out, as do select state schools with very well devel­oped programs who benefit from public funding. The vast majority of these . schools experienced the sweeping trend among top universities around the beginning of the twentieth century, pio­neered by Woodrow Wilson at Princeton, of reforming their curricula and organization. These were the days when the Ivys went from being elite din­ner clubs to centers of learning and pio­neering thought. It was then that the best schools in the nation became seri­ous about carrying out their missions. 
The Chicago Tribune this weekend referred to Fr. Hesburgh as "the patri­arch of the modern Notre Dame." While we are accustomed to according the President Emeritus almost mythical sta­tus, the truth of this observation cannot be underestimated. His ascension to the presidency in 1952 marked the begin­ning of a period in which Notre Dame truly began to embrace its own unique mission. While the achievements of the Hesburgh administration need not be recounted here it will suffice to say that it was under his leadership that Notre Dame's long-standing Catholic mission was finally fleshed out with academic excellence. In the years since then. we have begun to turn a collective eye towards that highest echelon of American academia and contemplate what it will take to get there. 
The point is this; Notre Dame contin­ues to be a work in progress. Today we are members of a community working toward its chosen end, and getting closer to this endthan we have ever been before. Yet in our frequent self­assessments, we must 
take into account the reality that we began our march towards modern academic excellence a full half century after the majority of our peer institutions. Building top universities requires time. We have made remark­able progress in the last four decades and will continue to do so in the future. 
We will not be the insitution we ultimate­ly wish to be without greater development of our graduate programs. Joing the CIC might well have provided a quick resolution to the question of how to attain this end. But it would have meant doing so on the terms of others, terms that were not crafted with our own unique mission in mind. It could well have led us to a rushed embrace of graduate expansion, one which would undermine our current undergraduate focus. Our current adminsitration is not lacking in emphasis on the future devel­opment of Notre Dame. We will contin­ue to grow. and in time, we will attain the ends for which we currently strive. In light of the '.frustee's decsion regard­ing the Big Ten and the CIC. it is impor­tant to remember that the CIC was not our only chance at being a strong grad­

uate and research institution. We will be such a university in due time, and hopefully we will do so in such a way that allows us to reconcile strong research programs with the same solid undergraduate education that has thus far been our benchmark. We have not lost a one-time opportunity with Friday's decision, we have chosen the more deliberate path of self-determina­tion. In doing so we allow ourselves the same vital time enjoyed by our peer institutions decades before. 
Scott Cullen Hisrory and Philosnphy major February 7, 1999 

¦ QUOTE Of THE DAY 
'AThousand things 
advance; nine hun­

dred and ninety-nine 
retreat; that is progress.' 
-Henri Frederic Amiel 

¦ DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
AN IMPBACHM/3NT "ll?/At. 

7R.ll!iTM/3,

19A QVCG-IN-A-C£lilll/F.Y 
'fa)u !Jp 'Jlit,t. 

ffvmT_/ HOl<.ltW!JRn4/R 
ING yOUI<

YOO THINK IT/9, JT!i 
t-Y?' @RANPKl!?.S

MOMeN!lJUS 1 I 
/JBOiJT TH/!3/ 
. I
~-­
\
~---( 
/ 
\ 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February 8, 1999 
page 9 
¦ DIGGING OEEPER 
Smoke and Mirrors Aside: the Truth of Ex Corde 
This is a response to Laura any school that wishes to attract the word" and which therefore l'etellc ·s poor excuse for a front students by using the term "must have a true autonomy and page news story (Observer, Jan 29) "Catholic" is not free to define academic freedom in the face of regarding the implementation of Ex Catholicity in any way it sees fit. In authority of whatever kind, lay or Corde Ecclcslae ("From the Heart of order lo attach the Catholic label to clerical, external to the academic the Church"), a Magisterial docu­an institution of higher education, community itself." I say "pre­ment on the nature of Catholic the institution must have a juridical tends," becauso one does not have Universities. lier article failed in association with the Universal to look very hard to see how hypo-every respect to qualify as responsi­Church, Self-styled "Catholic" uni-critical the implementation of these ble, objective, researched, or bal­versities wish use the name when it norms is at Notre Dame: we bow to anced journalism. In fact, it is not fits their purpose, and discard the all kinds of external authority (wit-so much a news story as a vehicle meaning behind it when it means ness the faculty senate,s push for for PeLelle to voice her own opin­setting themselves apart from their the Big Ten). to local. state, and ions on the issue as it pertains to secular counterparts. Such institu-federal governments, accrediting 
============================= tions betray internal contradic-associations, foundations, donors, 
tory attitudes; they want to be at and trustees. all of which are most once different from. and at the certainly external, to the University. same time. just like everybody and affect nearly every department 
Aaron 

else. here. For example, our chemistry 
This strange incongruity is department must be accredited by reflected even superficially, on the American Chemical Society; yet our campus externals. We have our Catholic, theology department 
Kheriaty 

statues of Our Lord, Our Lady, cannot be accredited, by the local and Moses, side by side with Catholic Ordinary? One would ---------------nihilistic, postmodern, sculp-think that any Catholic theologian 
tures that convey a message of would wear the Bishop's approval Notre Dame. Very little attempt despair and meaninglessness. We like a badge of honor. The autono­was made to disguise the lopsided. have classes on faith and reason my, pledged in Land 0, Lakes polemical tone. side by side with postmodern cours-seems only to mean autonomy from 
First, it is apparent that Petelle es in gender studies and Marxist those whom we feel like being has read neither Ex Corde itself, liberation theology. Something is autonomous at the moment. nor the U.S. Bishop's implementa-amiss; Ex Corde is the remedy. Instead of chasing a false autono­tion proposal, nor Title VII of the The real fear of those agitating my, or an illusory freedom, we federal code -all of which she against its implementation is that ought to recognize the great trea­rcfers to in her article in a mislead-there may be some truth that our sure we have, that others lack, pre­ing or erroneous fashion. She Catholic faith provides, that cannot cisely in our being a Catholic uni-failed to interview, or obtain a writ-be discovered solely on the basis of versity. The Faith, far from being ten statement from the person at unfettered empirical investigation an obstacle to the pursuit of knowl-Notre Dame arguably the most and historical-critical scholarship. edge and wisdom, is the best milieu important with respect to this issue: Such opposition to the truths of rev-from which we can pursue truth in John Cavadini, Dean of the elation ends up chasing an illusory all its forms. In contrast to the Theology Department. She ~----------------~ rationalist critique which also did not talk to Bishop -~\ shaped thinking at the start of D'Arcy, settling rather for a ~ the 20th century, the first vague assertion that the \~ Vatican Council affirmed, and Bishop is "among those who ~ , · John Paul II reiterated in Fides expressed concern about the ~·" · et Ratio, that ,,there exists a document." But what exactly ~ knowledge which is peculiar to was this concern? Was it that faith, surpassing the knowledge Notre Dame theologians would • proper to human reason... 
document? truth based upon the very fact In the end, this news story, of God who reveals himself, a
I ~N ~:;_,
managed to tell us nothing ' ~ truth which is most certain, about the vision Ex Corde lays 1/ since God neither deceives nor out for a Catholic university, wishes to deceive (8). The act of the role of such a university 1 faith is no way contrary to within the Church, or the ideal i 1 human freedom, but rather, is of a Catholic education. freedom,s fullest expression. A Instead, it succeeds only in Catholic university is actually 
the issue, invoking the words terparts, who can do no better "autonomy, and freedom," than be shackled to the whims without explaining why these of whatever secular ideology must be prized in the academy happens to be popular at the above all else. The majority of moment. the article is devoted to quot-The freedom we seek "is not ing the opinion of two dissent-realized in decision made 
ing faculty members, both of ._____________________, against God. For how could it whom hold the same opinion, which freedom. be an exercise of true freedom to is hardly representative of the fac-In contrast to the reigning secular refuse to be open to the very reality ulty as a whole, the administration, model of a university, which Notre which enables our self-realization? alumni, or students. The effort to Dame is currently striving to attain, Men and women can accomplish no explain the contents of Ex Corde Ex Corde presents a vision of a more important act in their lives was limited to the information the truly free, truly Catholic university, than the act of faith; it is here that author gleaned from two articles which has the following essential freedom reaches the certainty of appearing in other publications. In characteristics: (1) A Christian truth and chooses to live in that short, this was a thinly veiled inspiration not only of individuals truth (Fides et Ratio, 13)." When attempt by the author to sway the but of the university community as will the administration of Notre readers to one side of a poorly such; (2) A continuing reflection in Dame recognize that its students understood issue. lt was irrespon-the light of the Cathotic faith upon are hungry for this truth, for the sible journalism. the growing treasury of human Truth that has become Incarnate in The document calls not for hand-knowledge, to which it seeks to con-history? The only response for a ing over "control" of the university, tribute by its own research; (3) University which desires to call hul of working in cooperation with Fidelity to the Christian message as itself Catholic is that of faith, and of the local bishop. The central issue it comes to us through the Church; freely willed obedience to this of Ex Corde is, in fact, nothing new. (4) An institutional commitment to Truth. since it merely calls for the imple-the service of the people of God and menta.tion of norms that have been of the human family in their pil-Aaron Kheriaty is a senior pre­ll part of the Code of Canon Law grimage to the transcendent goal professional studies and philosophy since the 1983 revision, but which, which gives meaning to life. major. His column appears every unfortunately, have largely been Opposed to this, Notre Dame cur-other Monday. ignornd by colleges that still want rently pretends to abide by the The views expressed in this col­lo label themselves "Catholic." All "Land 0, Lake's" vision of a umn are those ofthe author and the Church is asking for with this Catholic university, which "must be not necessarily those ofThe document is truth in advertising; a university in the modern sense of Observer. 
¦ lEnrn TO THE EDITOR 
The Mis-Representation 
of Black 
History Month 

Well, it's that time of the year once again. Not that 
you would know it here at the University of Notre 
Dame. It's February-the month designated as 
"Black History Month." Let me explain that Black 
History Month evolved out of the late educator 
Carter G. Woodson's "Negro History Week." It came 
out of the sense that "American" history as taught in 
schools and represented throughout mass media not 
only left out the contributions of black Americans 
but distorted the social, political, and historical reali­
ties of America's past and present. 
I will not engage in a lengthy debate about the "validity" of Black History Month. Unfortunately, the original reasons for the creation of the month still exist. No, here what is of critical importance is the failure by this University to use "Black History Month" as an opportunity to push the level of critical dialogue on such issues as race, gender, and diversi­ty. Instead, not only is there even little surface recognition of the meanings of this month-no posters of black inventors or leaders, etc. in central locations, but campus offices involved with issues of diversity and students affairs have not even come together to either utilize the intellectual minds at this university or bring a speaker or speakers to campus who could help stimulate critical dialogues beyond why students segregate themselves in the cafeteria. Indeed, most discussions of race on this campus rarely move beyond a "can we all just get along" rhetoric. The planned activities in celebration of the month by and large represent the triviality with which Black History Month is being viewed and treated. 
Even more tragic perhaps is that we students, including black students who have been involved with planning the activities for the month, are affect­ed with what I call "passive lethargy." Hence, the activities and dialogues taking place in honor of this month do no reflect the urgency we should be feel­ing about, for example, the continued lack of diver­sty in the student and faculty population, the University's continued failure to develop and support a curriculum that reflects a commitment to edu­catingall students about issues of power and dis­crimination, and the anti-intellectual pseudo-race discussions so common on this campus. But I guess these are not sit-in or marching times. Black stu­dents-albeit in small numbers-are here. There, I guess, is progress. 
Let me offer a couple of final disturbing questions. How absurd is it that Notre Dame is this close to Chicago where there are well-known. critically intel­lectual. and talented black scholars, writers, and speakers, including, to name a couple, llaki R. Madhubuti and Gwendolyn Brooks'? flow is it that a university that can afford to bring widely known black figures to campus has failed to do so between this period of the supposedly significant Martin Luther King Jr. holiday and Black Ilistory Month'? How is it that an academic, supposedly intellectual environment continues to treat such serious issues only as "hot topics" of a moment but fail to support sustained, potentially critically transformative dia­logues? 
Stephane Dunn 
Ph. D candidate, English February 7, l999 


BSERVER ---------------Monday, February 8, 1999
page 10-------------------------OTHE 
Thin characters bog down enemy 'lines' 

"The Godfather" Trilogy 
Listen to your 'Godfather'! 
Directed by Francis Ford Coppola 
Family matters ...
Miscellaneously Starring Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, Diane Keaton, 
oldest son, played by James Caan, is Sonny, the hot­

James Caan, Robert Duvall and 
headed brute who some­

Andy Garcia 
times speaks out of turn and often wants to use vio­

By CASEY McCLUSKEY 
Scene Movie Critic 
"The Godfather" Trilogy is the epic saga of the Corleone family. Though each of the three films is a masterpiece in itself, one must see the entire series to understand thecomplete family history. 
Although when many people think of "The Godfather," they think of the Mafia, the story is truly about family. "The Godfather" movies are the Corleone family and their family business. Director Francis Ford Coppola does a brilliant job balanc­ing the story of the family and the busi­ness in which they are involved, while all along emphasizing that the Corleones are in the business together as a family. It won him the Oscar for Best Picture in 1972. 
The head of the family is Vito "Don" Corleone who lives by the rules of the old country where he was born, Sicily. He has come to America and raises his family to appreciate the freedom America has to offer. He also teaches them that the most important thing in life is loyalty to the family. In one of his most memorable roles, Marlon Brando does a wonderful job portraying this family man as both a kind and caring father and a tough and merciless Godfather. This role won Brando an Academy Award for Best Actor in 1972. 
Don Corleone is rich, powerful and feared by all, except maybe his children who love and respect their father and realize their own roles in the family, The 
lence to solve the familyfs problems. 
Fredo is the second son who is not known for his wits, and therefore is not always included in the inner circle of the family business. Tom Hagan, played by Robert Duvall, has been raised by the Don as a son since the time Sonny was a kid. Sonny brought Tom home to the Corleones because he was homeless. Hagan has become the Corleones' lawyer and one of the Don's greatest advisors. 
Michael, played by Al Pacino, is the youngest son and was 
always the Don's favorite child. He was groomed to take over the family busi­ness, but had plans of his own and joined tho war. Although this greatly disap­pointed the Don, he still always knew that Michael's first priority would be his 
family. 
Through these five men, the story of the Corleone family is told in chilling detail. 
"The Godfather: Part II" continues the story of the Corleone family, but also gives a much broader histo­ry of the family's rise to power. This film tells two stories. 
The first story is the childhood of Vito Corleone Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures and how he became known PJ. Pacino, Marlon Brando and James Caan star in "The Godfather," Oscar's best picture in 1972. 
as the Don and as Godfather to many. Robert DeNiro turns in an Oscar winning performance as Vito Corleone, a young Sicilian working to better his family. 
The second story is Michael Corleone's rise to power as the new Don. Coppola does a brilliant job weaving together these two stories so the audience can see the struggles side by side that both a father and his son experience as they both become one of the most powerful men in America, a generation apart from each other. 
This movie won the Oscar's Best Picture in 1974, which was a great accomplish­ment for a sequal. 
"The Godfather: Part III" is the weakest of the three movies, but still a must see for 

"The Thin Red Line" 
Director: Terrence Malick Starring: Nick Nolte, John Cusack, John Travolta, Sean Penn, James Caviezel, Ben Chaplin and George Clooney 
* * * 
(Out offive stars) 
characters never really develop and we never learn too much about them. We basically only get a few of their thoughts and feelings on their own situation during the war. It is almost like we are sim­ply getting a brief overview of the events of Charlie Company during the Battle of Guadalcanal without getting to know the soldiers. Because of this approach, it is hard for the viewer to get into the movie and really relate past experience, only we never find out what the past experience is. Thus, we really don't feel that bad for him. 

Finally, we have Lt. Col. Tall, played by Nick Nolte, who is as gung-ho as they come about defeating the Japanese. He is the typical wannabe war hero. He thinks only of himself and personal awards instead of the well-being of the group. He is posessed by the thought of leading his men to victory and the accolades he will gain from it. 
Along with the 
stress on each member of the group, "The Thin Red Line" stresses nature's effect on humans. We are constantly given landscape shots and parallels between nature and what is hap­pening during the war. 
Director and writer (even though the story was based on the book by James Jones) Terrance Malick emphasizes the spiritual con­nection between 
accomplishes this 
by portraying the relations between the American soldiers at war and the Melanesian natives, who stress family and tranquility. He hints at Buddhism with the idea that all men are part of the same being. Malick also pon­ders the origins of the evil in war throughout the film. From that idea, Malick questions the origins of love as well. 
"The Thin Red Line" asks many philo­sophical questions not only about war, but about life in general. When living in a sit­uation as gruesome as war, what remains sacred? What is the duty of each human'? These are the questions that "TheThin Red Line" confronts for the viewer. 
From a philosophical standpoint, the film asks all the right questions and truly makes an interesting inquiry about the nature of human beings. From a cine­matographic standpoint, "The Thin Red 

Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox

mankind and the 
Nick Nolte stars as Lt. Col Tall in Terrence Malick's World War II
Earth. Malick 
film, "The Thin Red Line." 

anyone who has seen the first two. The story of the Corleone family continues with an older Michael Corleone struggling with two problems in his life -legitimiz­ing the family business by freeing it from the crime world and finding a rightful and suitable heir to rule the family after his retirement. 
Vincent, played by Andy Garcia, is the person everyone believes will be the suc­cessor, but Michael worries about his tem­per and his intentions. Michael wants someone to follow the plan he has for the family and he knows Vincent may be the person who takes the legitimate family business back to the world of under­ground crime and violence. This edition of the Godfather epic was up for Best Picture 
in 1990, but did not bring home the Oscar. 
Many have seen the Godfather Trilogy in its three movie format, but there is another way to view this masterpiece for all die-hard fans. "The Godfather Saga" has been produced as the story of the Corleone family told in complete chronological order, from Vito Corleone coming to America and raising his family, to Michael taking the family business over, to Michael looking for a successor to the family business. From beginning to end, it pro­vides a thrillingly dramatic look at a familyis internal conflicts as well as the underground world of crime. 

Line" is amazing. Terrance Malick is an incredible director that relays the emo­tions of the American soldier directly to the viewer. Even though these things are true, the movie still lacks character devel­opment, which, if present, would make "The Thin Red Line" a truly incredible picture. But without it, the movie just stays where it is. 
ByJOE LARSON 
Scene Movie Critic 
"The Thin Red Llne" is the World War II story of a group of Marines and their experience in the Battle of Guadalcanal. 
We follow Charlie Company 'from their storm onto the W1occupied beach to their departure off the same beach a few weeks later. We sec the mental and physi­cal sufferings of these men as they move through the jungle trying to overtake the Japanese. In essence, this film tries to explore the pyschological effect of war on many different characters throughout the movie. 
The movie's slogan is: "Every man fights his own war." This is definitely true. The film is able to express the meaning of this slogan because the film-makers get inside almost every character's head. "The Thin Red Line" boasts an all-star cast which puts the viewer at ease consid­ering the film has more than 50 speaking parts. lfyou're going to this movie to see a particular actor, you will be pretty disap­pointed when that actor only has two lines and you don't hear from him again. 
This movie almost seems like an in­depth documentary, meaning that the to any of the characters. 
We are given some characters that have the potential to be very interesting (i.e. characters that a viewer could really begin to care about.) But then we don't see them anymore. With the exception of about four characters, this movie is a col­lage of cameos and random perspectives on the war. These cameos would be okay if we did get to explore the lives and per­spectives of the five characters we see more than once. but even with those characters, we don't get much of a variety on the thoughts that they have. 
First, we meet Private Witt (Jim Caviezel), who is a free spirit among the Charlie Company. He is always sharing his thoughts on the laws of nature with Sergeant Welsh, played by Sean Penn. Welsh is a man that seems to follow with the Marine's orders, but doesn't quite understand what is happening around him. This is why he cares so much about the spiritual and off-kilter Witt. 
We also meet Private Bell (Ben Chaplin), whose thoughts during the war center on his wife at home. We learn nothing about Private Bell except for the fact that he misses his wife. Sergeant Starros, played by Elias Koteas, is a man that has trouble leading his men into battle because of a 
§e ne 

Monday, February 8, 1999 OBSERVER -------------------page11 
¦ HIGH SCHOOL PAN OF THE WEEK 
bet in the first place. 
"She's All That" 

The weakness of "She's All That" is mostly due to the script. The screen­
Director: Robert Iscove 
play just didn·t deliver. 
The dialogue is the most 
obvious reason for the 
Starring: Freddie Prinze Jr., Rachel Leigh 
Cook, Jodi Lynn O'Keefe, Paul 

flatness found in each
Walker and Usher Raymond 

character -with lines 
* * 
(Out offive stars) 

By DAN SULLIVAN 
Stene Movie Critic 
To quote Laney Boggs, (Rachel Leigh Cook) "I fMI like Julia Roberts in 'Pretty W()man,' except for that whole hooker thing." I couldn't have said ii. bcttflr myself. /\t its core, "She's All That" is only ''Cinderella goes to high­school." This film is definitely marketed for the high school-going MTV audi­ence, following lhc lead of other teen films, "Clueless" and "Can't Hardly Wail." 
Laney Boggs. an artistic, socially jusl. introvert. leads a hard life. Her mother has di11d, her father is a pool man and her younger brother is seemingly deaf. Suddenly her !ifo is transformed into a fairy tale as the most popular guy in school suddenly becomes attracted to her. Unfortunately. Zack's (Freddie Prinzc Jr.} instant attraction is due to a bet with his fellow members of the high school elite. 
Rachel Leigh Cook, probably known best for her role as the frying pan-swinging, anti-heroin chick, carried the mm com­pletely. Her perfor­mance as Laney showed chn.rm and depth. dwarfing the efforts of her fellow actors. To put it sim­ply. all the other characters in this n!m were portrayed as flat, one-dimen­sional characters with no evidence of change. Even Zack. !Freddie Prinze, Jr.) with the role of the knight in shining armor and all­around nice guy, seems in the end to be the same guy he was at the film's 
start. lending no credence to the 
equivalent to "duh" and "whatever." It is hard for any actor to really delve into a character with such base character development. Also, sim­ple and very noticeable 
details are never explained nor given relevance in the unfolding of tho story. One such detail which irked me throughout the film was the fact that the little brother. Simon, seemed to be prominently wear­ing a hearing aid, yet he had no bearing on the plot whatsoever. 
All that aside, the film was able to make me laugh, though much of the humor applies to contemporary pop cullure and is sure to date the film before ilc; video release. All in all it was a cute film, which caused me to remi­nisce about the stories of my old high school days. It was a fair reason to veg out. being worth a few good laughs. 
"She's All That" is mildly recom­mended, only because it did make me snicker and because Rachael Leigh Cook's performance was more than entertaining. My advice, though, is to wait until it comes out on video. 
Photo courtesy of Mlrnmax Pictures 

Rachel Leigh Cook is all that as Laney Boggs in "She's All 
acceptance of the 
That." 

..-, ... '~;;_' ::;,:-;: .::.::·. ,:;..,:,_-,..;,.,:;;_\~i\: 
¦ TOMMOROW 
Oscar Norn 
be announc 
~:; ..... : :-· ·:;~;~~:.:-.... 
Tuesda.y>s u11 
1999 Oscar l'IOlrti. 
vlde a. month off tlon over who will t home in Mal'ch. Alth ·.. Globes are safe prect1r Oscars, this year's editio mix up the puzzle a little m 
It came as _,t surptl$~ HollywoodwhenJim Cai'. BastActor_((lr~rn{tj ,Gg!ti~~"hyped fa.vodte~ J'99,1,,~i,!W McKoUan. Uµt ,wm;tl)~"ffiAcademy rewar(I C~~ ,·· 
''The Tr1.1nu.m Show?,, get nods.· but lo(l-k Mc.Kellan to win noxt mo 
The favorites for bes talnly aro "Saving Ptlv 
'°.,%, . 

¦ CHART-TOPPERS 
Movie Title 
1. 
Payback 

2. 
She's All That 

3. 
Patch Adams 

4. 
Varsity Blues 

5. 
Saving Private Ryan 


5. Shakespeare in Love 
7. 
A Civil Action 

8. 
Stepmom 

9. 
Simply Irresistible 

10. 
You've Got Mail 


Source: Associated Press 
Movie Title 
1. 
The Truman Show 

2. 
Lethal Weapon 4 

3. 
Out of Sight 

4. 
Blade 

5. 
The Negotiator 

6. 
Six Days, Seven Nights 


7. 54 

8. Armageddon 
Mel Gibson stars in "Payback," this weekend's top box­office draw. Payback's $21.4 million became the largest debut gross of 1999. "She's All That" continued strongly at number two, with a $12 mil­lion take. 

Gross Sales 
$ 21.4 million $ 12.0 million $ 4. 5 million $ 4.0 million $ 3.6 million $ 3.6 million $ 3.2 million $ 2.6 million $ 2.4 million $ 2.3 million 
9. 
How Stella Got Her Groove Back 

10. 
Disturbing Behavior 


Source: Billboard Online 
n 

February 12 
Blast from the Past, starring Brendan Fraser and Alicia Silverstone Message in a Bottle, starring Kevin Costner and Robin Wright-Penn My Favorite Martian, starring Christopher Lloyd and Jeff Daniels God Said, "Hal" starring Julia Sweeney 
February 19 
Affliction, starring Nick Nolte 
Office Space, starring Jennifer Aniston ·and Ron Livingston Jawbreakers, starring Rose MaGowen and Rebecca Gayheart 
• 

page 12 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, February 8, 1999 
..; 
¦ NHL 

Avs extend win streak 
Roy posts 46th career shutout as Colorado defeats Dallas, 3-0 
Associatrd PttsS 

Patrick Roy stopped 27 shots for his 46th career shutout and the Colorado Avalanche extended their franchise-long winning streak to 12 games with a 3-0 vic­tory over the Dallas Stars on Sunday. 
Roy won his 11th consecutive decision and registered his fifth shutout of the sea­son as he blanked the team with the most points in the Western Conference. 
Roy, who has three shutouts during his personal 11-game streak. passed his stiffest test of the afternoon during a two­man Dallas power play midway through the third period. Roy stopped three quick shots while his team was down two play­ers. 
Colorado's winning streak is the NHL's longest since the Pittsburgh Penguins won a league-record 17 straight in 1993. 
Claude Lemieux, Chris Drury and Jon Klemm scored for Colorado, which last lost on Jan. 9, 3-2 at Detroit. 
After a scoreless first period, Colorado got the game's flrst goal from Lemieux at 
8:14 of the second period. His blast from the right circle got through the pads of Stars goalie Ed Belfour for Lemieux's 20th goal. 
Drury made it 2-0 with 17 :49 left on a power play, beating Belfour from the high slot for his 11th goal. 
Klemm added his first of the season off a two-on-one break with Peter Forsberg with 4:03. 
Dallas held a 27-12 shots-on-goal advantage, but Colorado's penalty killers kept the Stars off the scoreboard on seven power play chances. 
Dallas. 3-1-1 in its last five games. is now only four points ahead of Phoenix and six in front of Colorado in the Western Conference playoff race. 
Stars forward Brian Skrudland suffered a first-period chest contusion and did not return. 
Penguins 2 Red Wings 1 

PITTSBURGH 
Goalie Tom Barrasso stopped 35 shots and the Pittsburgh Penguins extended their winning streak to six games with a 2-1 win over the Detroit Red Wings on Sunday. 
It was the second consecutive strong start for Barrasso, who returned from a four-game injury absence on Friday to shut out Florida. He had gone nine days without playing after sustaining a neck injury in a game against Carolina on Jan. 
26. 
Kip Miller's rebound of a Kevin Hatcher shot gave the Penguins a 2-1 lead at 11: 13 of the second period. It was Miller's ninth of the season. 
Martin Lapointe's 12th goal of the sea­son tied it at 1-1 on a power-play goal from Vyacheslav Kozlov's at 9:36 of the second period. 
Alexei Kovalev intercepted Igor Larionov's pass at 15:43 of the first period and quickly put a 20-foot shot over Detroit goalie Chris Osgood's glove. It was Kovalev's 16th goal, his fi.rst shorthanded, and extended his point-scoring streak to six games. 
The Red Wings are on a 1-3-1 skid and Osgood is winless in four decisions (0-3­1). 
Penguins defenseman Jiri Slegr was slashed on the arm in the second period and did not return. 
Bruins 3 
Rangers 2 
BOSTON 
Joe Thornton scored the game-winner with 3:27 left in the game to give the Boston Bruins a 3-2 win over the New York Rangers on Sunday, ending Boston's eight-game winless streak. 
Thornton's backhander from the right side of the crease beat Rangers goalie Mike Richter for his 10th goal of the sea­son. 
Adam Graves tied the game at 12:21 of the third period with his team-leading 24th goal of the season. He took the puck at his blue line, broke free of the defense and put the puck between Dafoe's pads for his first shorthanded tally of the sea­son. 
Brian Leetch scored his eighth goal of the season on a shot from the slot midway through the third period cutting the Boston lead to 2-1. 
Boston jumped out to a 1-0 lead on Sergei Samsonov's power-play goal at 
15:01 of the first period, his 18th of the season. 
It was only the third power-play goal the Rangers have allowed in their last 27 times. The Bruins were one for five in power play opportunites. 
Dmitri Khristich made it 2-0 on a one­timer at 16:27 of the second period for his 21st goal of the season. It was his first goal in the last seven games. 
Dafoe broke a six-game winless streak as he stopped 25 of 27 Rangers shots including 13 in the second period. 
New York had two opportunities in the final minute of the second period, but Dafoe stoned them. 

¦ NBA 

Associated Press first-round playoff series 
NEWYORK 

This was about as bad a day as Latrell Sprewell has ever had, at least on the court. 
He threw up a brick from 3-point range with 10 seconds left and Patrick Ewing followed by missing a layup as the New York Knicks lost their home opener, 83­79 Sunday to the Miami Heat. 
Sprewell missed his first seven shots, finished 2-for-12 from the field and scored just five points while struggling to fit into New York's offense. 
Sprewell also didn't have much success defensively stopping Jamal Mashburn, who led Miami with 23 points. Alonzo Mourning added 16, Terry Porter had 13 and Tim Hardaway the Heat in a rematch of last year's won by New York 3-2. 
Mourning and Larry Johnson changed the outcome of that playoff series by getting into a fight at the end of Game 4, but both were on their best behavior Sunday. 
Johnson had 13 points and 15 rebounds, help­ing the Knicks to a 61-41 edge on the boards. But the rebounding edge merely kept the Knicks close as Miami led almost the entire way. 
Two foul shots by Mourning gave Miami an 82-79 lead with 35 sec­onds left, and the Knicks called timeout after grabbing an offensive rebound with 20 seconds left. 
The ball went to Sprewell outside the 3­point line, and he forced up a double-clutch shot that failed to even hit the rim. 
The rebound was bat­ted around and ended up with Ewing, who missed a layup. Mashburn was fouled and made one of two free throws to close the scoring. 
Sprewell, who shot a 22-foot airball from 24 feet away during the first half, didn't make a basket until 8:23 remained in the fourth quarter. 
Porter answered with a pair of wild jumpers as the shot clock was run­ning down, and Sprewell tied the game one more time on a corner jumper with 6 1/2 minutes left. But Porter answered again. this time with a 3­pointer from in front of the Knicks bench. 
Ewing missed his next three shots and Mourning scored twice for Miami, putting the Heat ahead 80-75 before Ewing scored on a cor­ner jumper to make it a three-point game going into the final two min­utes. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ac che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds muse be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  Cash!Top reps are ottered on-site staff jobs.All-Inclusive Deals.Special Discounts up to $100  FOR RENT  August for fall. Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, full basement, large backyard, and oH street parking.  CONGRATS ON THE BIG 21! SWF seeking SWM for interesting  If you are happy and you know it clap your hands!!!  
per person.Lowest price  MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM  relationship.  Hello Kathleen!! You brought me  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Guaranteed.Cal! now for details!  WALK TO SCHOOL  INCLUDED!! KITCHEN BEING  Must be open to fiery personality.  food and that was nice.  
CruiserSNights $2791lncludes  www.classtravel.com  2-oBEDROOM  REMODELED THIS SPRING! CAIi  violent mood swings, and long  
Meals & Free Parties!Awesome  800/838-6411  STARTING $185  289-4712  walks on the beach.  
Beaches,Nighllife!Departs From  MONTH/PERSON  Inquire at IAM-SASY.  There will be no construction paper  
FloridalCancun & Jamaica $3991  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT  232-2595  Wanted: Roomates at ND  in my room. I am not into that kind  
springbreaktravel.com  Workers earn up to  apts for '99-'00 year and for  of thing.  
1-800-678-6386  $2,00o+/monu, (w/tips & bene­ summer '99 Call x4415  ...SEND YOUR SWEETIE A  
fits).World Travel!Land-Tour jobs up  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  VALENTINE IN THE OBSERVER  
Spring Break Panama City $129IBoardwalk Room w/Kltchen  to $5,000-$7,000/summer.Ask us how!  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2n3097  FOR SALE  CLASSIFIEDS!!! VALENTINE ADS WILL APPEAR  Put your hand upon my hip. then we dip you dip we dip.  
Next To Clubsl7 Parties-Free  517-336-4235 Ext.C55842  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12. DEAD·  
Drinks!Daytona $149ISouth Beach  '99-'00 LOADEDl6 Bedrm. $800  NEW Rates Phone Cards  LINE IS 2 pm,FEBRUARY 11.•••  There is more to life than boxing!!  
$129!Cocoa Beach $1491  Piano Trumpet Sax Guitar & Bass  mo. 273-0482/234-3831  282 min.$20 call 258-4805  
springbreaktravel.com  Players for Shenanigans Band---lor  Just say No! Just say Nol  
1-800-678-6386  3 big shows and optional spring  BED 'N BREAKFAST  89 Ford Probe GT (made by  The wait is over and he is here.  
j1osT & FOUND'  break tour. Call Meg at 4·2573.  REGISTRY 219·291-7153  Mazda) $1600, call 634 4303.  Not too much of a surprise. He is a cutiell!!  Time to make the donuts.  
ADOPT:Help us make our family  3 BDRM, DUPLEX, REMODELED,  couch & loveseat $250  Hsu -Whal are you doing up?  Technically, I should be able to  
JACKET ACCIDENTLY TAKEN AT  complete.Let us give your newborn  501EDDY ST.  (w)284-4486 (h)277-3589  read everything and then leave.  
..  SMC FORMAL ON SATURDAY NIGHT. CALL x2276 IF FOUND.  a loving.happy home and a wonder­ful future.Expenses paid.Please call Lucille and Michael 1-800-468· 9311.  1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.APPLI­ANCES, W/D. 273-8332 5 & 6 BDRM HOMES. 1999/2000 ,  TICKETS  There Is no toner. Let us all say a prayer that things will change for tomorrow on the first  Welcome to the basement, we don't do things according to the rules.  
JACKET LEFT IN FARLEY ON  SUMMER OR NOW.NEAR CAM­ business day of the week.  Yo quiero Taco Bell!  
FRIDAY NIGHT. CALL ><4097 TO  SPRING BREAK BEACHES  PUS.FURN.GILLIS PROPER­ BOB  DYLAN 1st. 5 ROWS  
CLAIM.  DaytOna,Panama  TIES.2726551  WWF. RINGSIDE 1st. 10 rows  I have to think!!!!  Here is yet another shoutout to the  
Clty,Padre,Miaml,Cancun,Jamaica,  272-7233.  man who has freckled head. wears  
WANTED  Bahamas.etc.Best hotels.prices.parties. Browse www.icpt.com.  HOUSE OR ROOMS AVAIL NOW.272-6551  PERSONAL  You startle me. I love it when nobody comes to  cheap track pants. Elvis has left the building.  
SPRING BREAK 991  Reps earn cash.tree trips.Call Inter­ House for Rent.  work. You still have three weeks  
Cancun • Nassau • Jamaica  Campus 800-327•6013  Two Blocks from campus.  HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY  left In your contract.  
Travel Free and make lots of  Available In June for Summer.  LAURENlllllll1!I!11!!  

Monday, February 8, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 13 
¦ FOOTBALL 
OSU investigates violations 
Associatcd Press 
COLUMHUS, Ohio 

Ohio State's athletics department is reviewing rr•cruiling violations committed by two assis­tant football coaches shortly before last week's signing day. 
HPcruiting coordinator Bill Conley visited ol'fonsivP lineman Bryce Bishop outside his Miami home Jan. 31. Defense ends coach Shawn Simms visited defensive back Hoshard Gilyard that same day at his Jacksonville, Fla., home. 
One day earlier and the coaches would have been in the c;lear. But because of an NCAA­mandated "quiet period" before players sign national letters of intent, recruiting on the Sunday before signing day is limited to on-cam­pus visits. 
"There are so many rules, but there is no pxcuse for not knowing," Cooper said. "I should 
have known it. We all should have known it. "But I know we did not knowingly violate the rule." 
Cooper said Heather Lyke, Ohio State assis­tant athletic director and director for compli­ance services, wrote a report on the violations last week. 
"We will take the appropriate steps," athletic director Andy Geiger said. 
Bishop signed with the Buckeyes Wednesday, the first day players were eligible to sign a let­ter of intent. Gilyard signed with Auburn. 
Conley said the rule apparently got over­looked in the hectic shuffle of the final days of the recruiting period. 
Conley said he thought he was making a last gesture of sincerity before returning to Columbus. 
"It was an inadvertent but honest mistake," Conley said. "We didn't have a clue about it being a quiet period." 
Uni¥ersity ofNotre Dame International Study Programs 
NOTRE DANE AUSTRALIA 
Summer Session 1111 
0 

¦ MEN'S 8ASKEBALL 
Michigan upsets Minnesota 
Wolverines snap five-game losing streak with win 
Associated Press 
ANN AHBOR 

Louis Bullock scored 27 points as Michigan snapped a five-game losing streak with a 75-65 upset of No. 18 Minnesota on Sunday. 
Robbie Reid added 16 points and Josh Asselin and Peter Vignier scored 10 each for the Wolverines (10-14 overall. 4-7 Big Ten). who opened up a 21-point lead and withstood a late Gophers rally. 
Big Ten scoring leader Quincy Lewis led Minnesota (14-6, 5-5) with 23 points, including 13 in the last 5:32 when the Gophers trimmed Michigan's big lead to five. 
B•ullock, limited to just eight points in Michigan's 58-34 loss Thursday at Northwestern, keyed the Wolverines' 56 percent shooting by making nine of 11 shots. He was also 8-for-8 from the line as Michigan hit 25 of 35 free throws. 
Michigan led 35-24 at half­time. It used a 12-0 run to open its biggest lead at 55­34 with 9:25 to play on the second of back-to-back alley­
oop dunks from Asselin. 
Kevin Clark's only second­half field goal, a 3-pointer, started a 9-0 run for the Gophers that got them back within 58-50 on Lewis' jumper with 4:35 to go. 
Lewis scored eight points in a I: 28 span and later added a 3-pointfir as the Gophers made it 67-(,2 on a Mitch Ohnstad triple at the 57-second mark. But the Wolverines made six free throws the rest of the way to put the game out of reach. 
Three-pointers from Lewis and Clark helped Minnesota take a 10-0 lead just 4:05 into the game before Bullock's layup finally got Michigan on the board 23 seconds later. 
That triggered a 18-3 run that gave Michi~an an 18-13 lead on Heid s two free throws with 7:50 IPl't. Tho Wolverines maintained thP momentum with a 13-3 spurt over the last 4 :49 that gave thP.m a 35-24 halftime lead when Bullock nailed a jumper just before tlrn horn. 
Minnesota, 0-4 in Big Ten road ganrns. plays four of its remaining six rcgular-sPason games away from honrn. 
Joel Przybilla was thn only other Gopher in double fig­ures with 10 points. Clark was held to just six points before fouling out. 
-For all those who prefer he Women's Running Club is St. Mary·s anrlNotre Dame. p.gJlleir workouts as they .ND,.StMary's, and in South •...... · J¢nr1y at 4-2914 with ques• 
•,•,. 

·CLINICS -The final cross-countryee~i 13 at 2 p.m. Come spend the J:(now covered Notre Dame Golf Jfr advance at RecSports. Cost is 
. ''l 
...... 

Big Hairy Achievers Wanted! 
F_ederal-Mogul Corporation is a$7 billion automotive parts manufacturer providing innova­
tive solutions and systems to global customers in the automotive, light trucks. heavy-duty, 
farm and industrial markets. We're acompany that drives new careers to great heights. 
!f _you're an ambitious individual driven towards success and you want to get there fast, 
Join the company that knows how to go places. We're looking for achievers for intern­
ships and full-time positions. 
Full-time Marketing Position• 
Full-time positions are available in Marketing at our World Headquarters in Southfield 
Michigan The ideal candidates will possess a Bachelor's degree in arelated field with 
a mini_mum 3.0 GPA. Strong communications skills. solid analytical ability and knowledge 
of varmus computer software programs are required. Awillingness to learn new skills 
and work hard also essential. 
Ac_cou~ting/Fin_ance _Su_mmer Internships 
Summer internships are available in Accounting, Finance and Audit Services at our World Headquarters in Southfield. Michigan. The ideal candidates should be Accounting or Fi~ance maj?rs, with at least ajunior standing and a minimum 3.0 GPA. Strong PC skills, es_pec1ally with spreadsheets, and fundamental knowledge of accounting practices 
are required. 
Manufacturing Opportunitiea -Nationwide Manufacturing opportunities are available nationwide. Selected candidates will learn about our business through experiences in the field. Ideal candidates will be Mechanical Engineering students with aminimum 3.0 GPA. Excellent interpersonal skills, high motivation and a record of accomplishments also strongly recommended. 
We reward your drive and ambition with acompetitive salary and benefits package. Federal-Mogul will be on campus on February 22 and 23, For further information or to schedule an interview. please contact the Admissions Office. Or, send your resume to: 
Federal-Mogul Corporation, Human Resources, 26555 Northwesteni Highway, Southfield, Ml 48034; Fax: (248) 354-8100; Email: frunces_gesualdo@fmo.com Web site: www.lederalmogul.com Federal-Mogul is an Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer. 
E)FEDERAL
MOGUL 
.. 
... 
_., 

page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, February 8, 1999 
..... 
... 
¦ TENNIS 

Sampras set to return at Sybase 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 
He played a little golf and watched some 1V. And. for the first time since he was a high school junior, Pete Sampras didn't play in a tennis tourna­ment for a couple of months. 
Now he returns to the game he dominates, starting with this week's Sybase Open. Sampras gets his first c-hance to show whether he's refreshed or rusty on Tuesday night against 84th­ranked Galo Blanco of Spain. 
"I definitely felt like I needed this break to st¥t the year off mentally, physically as fresh as possible,"Sampras said. "So I am definitely champing at the bit." 
Exhausted after a grueling series of tournaments in late 1998 to protect his No. 1 rank­ing, Sampras passed up the Australian Open in January ­the first Grand Slam tourna­ment he has skipped since 1992. 
He is just one short of tying Roy Emerson's record of 12 Grand Slam singles titles. and Sampras has said his main motivation is to win more Grand Slams. 
¦ NBA 

But he also focused on finish­ing last year as the No. 1 player in the world, giving him a record six straight years at the top. To protect that ranking, he had to play seven straight wee.ks in October and November -a process that left him weary. 
"l would have loved to have gone down to Australia. I just wish it started in February,"he said. "I wanted to give myself a good offseason this year." 
Though gone. Sampras cer­tainly was not forgotten at the Australian Open. When Yevgeny Kafelnikov won the title, he immediately pointed out that his job was made much easier by the absence of the world's top player. 
"'Pete, it's really a great. won­derful feeling,"Kafelnikov said after raising the silver trophy. "Thanks for letting me do that." 
Sampras is beginning his 258th week at No. 1, a dozen short of the record held by Ivan Lend!. Opponents wonder whether he'll be as sharp as usual at the start of the $350,000 Sybase tournament. 
"I think there's definitely a shot that he'll be rusty,"said sixth-seeded Jan-Michael Gambill, who would face 
Sampras in the semifmals. "Pete definitely plays better when he has a few events under his belt.0 
Gambill has been on the ten­nis circuit only two years. and he understands the exhaustion that forced Sampras to the side­lines for the past 10 weeks. Yet he thinks Sampras' relentless pursuit of the year-end No. 1 ranking was worth the toll. 
"To me, that's his most impressive accomplishment,"Gambill said. "He's been head and shoulders above everyone else for six straight years, and that's really impressive." 
Sampras, a two-time Sybase champion, has a relatively easy draw into the semifinals. But. once there, the top seed may have to face Gambill or No. 3 seed Mark Philippoussis, a U.S. Open finalist last year. 
Andre Agassi, coming off an uninspired fourth-round loss at the Australian Open, is the defending champion of the Sybase Open and the No. 2 seed this vear.
He opens against Todd Woodbridge on Monday night and could face No. 4 seed Michael Chang in the semifinals. 

Albert returns to TV after 20-month layoff 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
After a nearly 20-month lay­off. Marv Albert was already back in midseason form Sunday. 
Albert was nearly flawless in his radio broadcast of the Knicks-Heat game, his first basketball game since the 1997 NBA Finals. Albert was fired by NBC three months later after pleading guilty to biting a for­mer lover during a sexual encounter. 
"He's doing great and I think his greatness as an announcer has always been radio," said partner John Andariese. "The listener is the winner." 
Albert began his play-by-play career with MSG on radio in 1966. He worked Knicks games for MSG on television with Andariese from 1986 to 1997 before resigning shortly after being fired by NBC. 

He had few problems on Sunday with the adjustment back to radio -despite not feeling completely healthy. 
"I have a little cold, but I felt very comfortable," Albert said after the game. "Radio is much more taxing than 1V. In televi­sion you're really setting up the analysts. This is non-stop and is a frantic pace." 
Because of the wild first quarter in which both teams shot poorly, it took nearly four minutes before Albert got a chance to use his signature call of "Yessss"when Larry Johnson buried a 15-footer. 
It took far less time for Albert to offer his respected insights. He criticized the game early in the first quarter. calling it "sloppy". and also pointed out on numerous occasions the Knicks dismal free throw shoot­ing. 
1998-99 SEASO.N 

NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
.... 
RESHYEO TICKETS $14 
SENIORS Sll All STUBEHTS Sl1 

Tltms lR£ AYAII.ARI.E AT IAFDR1111£ srunoo tBITER TICKET DffltE. MAs!ERtAKD Nill VISA DRDE~ CAll 631-8128 

However. Albert was not per­fect. He misidentified players, but that is expected -especial­ly of someone who has been away from the game for so long. 
Although his return was over­shadowed by Latrell Sprewell's first game at home as a Knick, Albert was welcomed back to Madison Square Garden by fans and former colleagues ­including NBC's Bill Walton and Jim Gray. 
Before the game, fans lined up to speak with Albert and get his autograph. One fan even got his signature on an NBC cap. 
"It's great to have him back because he is New York broad­casting," said Mark Gomberg of Wayne, N.J. "It's great that MSG was able to overlook his indiscretions and I only hope that they put him back on TV soon. I thought it would be ironic if he signed my NBC hat. He didn't even Oinch." 
Contrary to a report Thursday on Fox Sports Net, Albert and NBC Sports Chairman Dick Ebersol denied they are deep in discussions about bringing Albert back to the network. 
But Ebersol did add that he would never eliminate the pos­sibility ofAlbert coming back to NBC. 

Notre Dame/ St. Mary,'s Ballroom Dance Club 
DATE 
January 19 January 26 February 2 February 9 February 16 February 23 March 2 March 9 March 16 March 23 March 30 
April 6 April 8 April 13 April 20 April 27 

1999 Spri,ng Schedule 
EVENT 
Hustle Samba West Coast Swing Tango Two Step Cha-Cha Review ofall dances Spring Break -No Classes Waltz Mambo Rhumba Return from Easter Break -No Classes Thursday Country Line Dancing 
Salsa/Merengue Swing Review ofall dances 
All classes will meet from 8:30 -10:00 in 301 Rockne. Admission for each class will be $3.00. We will also be holding practice nights every Thursday night free ofcharge for those who want the extra practice. Ifyou enjoy the first class and would like to become a member, a semester membership is $15.00 and covers the cost ofall the classes for one semester. Ifyou have any questions, feel free to call any ofthe officers and we will be happy to help you out. Please remem­ber to wear sneaks or tennis shoes to dance in. We look forward to seeing you 
out on the dance floor. 
Monday, February 8, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ NBA 
Nets achieve revenge against Hawks 
As•ociared PttJS 
EAST HUTIIERFOHD, N.J. 
No fights, no broken bones 
and not as many fouls. 
In their second meeting in 24 hours, the New Jersey Nets got some revenge after a vicious game tho night before by beat• ing tho Atlanta Hawks 79-69 Sunday night. 
Keith Van !lorn scored 18 of his 24 poinl'i in the second half and hit a go-ahead drive across tho lane with 3:22 to play in the matchup that is quickly developing into a rival­
ry. 
The Bawks. who became the first NBA team in more than a decade to play three straight nights, made only 23 of 78 shots (29.5 percent). Atlanta had scored more than 100 points in ili; first two games. 
Each learn will play three straight days three times in tho lockout-shortoned season. 
Now Jersey, which blew a nine-point lead to start the final quarter, closed the game with a 13-2 run in splitting the home-and-home series. 
Backup forward Scott Burrell added 16 points and small for­ward Kendall Gill, who was forced to start at point guard because of injuries to Sam Cassell and Eric Murdock on Saturday, added 15 points and 11 rebounds. 
Chris Gatling, playing with a sorn hamstring, added 14 points and 10 rebounds, while Jayson Williams had 13 rebounds and a monster block of a Steve Smith layup attempt with the Hawks still in the game late. 
Smith had 24 points to lead the Hawks. who lost for the 
first time this season. He got 
no help as only Alan 
Henderson scored in double 
figures adding 10 points. 
The only time the Hawks looked impressive was in the opening minutes of the fourth quarter when they used a 14-4 spurt to take a 67-66 lead on the second of two free throws by Chris Crawford. Backup guard Ed Gray had seven points in the spurt. 
Van Horn. who had 29 points on Saturday night. then drove across the lane to put New Jersey ahead. He added two free throws and then Gill pushed the lead to six with two more free throws with 2:08 to go. Gatling, who got into shov­ing match with Grant Long in the second half, iced the game with a jumper from tho corner with 1 :09 to go. 
· While the game had some heated moments, it was a Jot calmer than Saturday night's 111·106 game that ended with Smith and Gill reportedly wrestling on a hallway floor shortly after the final horn. 
Williams also had his nose broken by a Dikembe Mutombo elbow and Cassell also had to be carried off the 11oor because of cramps and an ankle injury after scoring a career-high 36 points in the game that featured 72 fouls and 98 free throws. 
Cassell and Murdock joined Kerry Kittles (knee) and back­up center Rony Seikaly (ankle) on the sidelines Sunday night, leaving the Nets with nine players. 
The Nets player who got the biggest ovation in their first home game was 5-foot-5 Earl Boykins. 
~ ---------WHY NOT..II 
I I I I I I 
I I I I I I I I I I 
• 
~ 
Birthplace:  Plain, WI  
Previous Job:  Rector, Morrissey Hall  
Years as Rector:  21  

"God wants more Fisher men. ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
--Bro. Ed Luther, C.S.C., Rector, Fisher Hall 
.,.\lffil. 
hr-,1'i 
""" 
• 


---,._ 
check out THE PLUNGEat www.nd.edu/ ~vocation 
¦ NBA 

Pistons rally to defeat Pacers 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, MICH. 
Jerome Williams scored 11 of his 13 points in the fourth quar­ter to spark a Detroit rally and lift the Pistons to a 107-98 win over the Indiana Pacers Sunday. 
Grant Hill scored 26 points and Jerry Stackhouse came off the bench for 20 for the surpris­ing Pistons, who have won their first two games. 
Reggie Miller scored 26 for tho Pacers. 
A basket by Antonio Davis ­one of three Pacers with 12 points -pulled Indiana into an 86-86 tie with 6:56 left. 
But Williams, whose energetic play makes him a fan favorite at The Palace, scored six points in a 7 -0 burst that gave Detroit a 93-86 lead with 4:49 remaining. Williams made two free throws. then a driving layup, giving Detroit a 90-86 lead with 5:32 remaining. After Hill made one of two free throws. Williams scored on a rebound, putting the Pistons safely ahead. 


Two free throws by Miller closed the gap to 95-91 with 
4:42 left. but that's as close as the Pacers got. Play got ragged late in the third quarter when neither team made a field goal after Hill's short jumper gave Detroit a 72-71 lead with 4:40 left. 
A steady diet of free throws enabled the Pistons to take an 80-76 lead into the fourth quar­ter. 
The Palace, which holds 21,454 for basketball. wasn't nearly full and those who 
showed up weren't especially loud. The arena's upper bowl, which holds 10,000, appeared about half empty. Heavy snow was forecast for the area, which may have kept some people home. 
But those who attended were made to feel welcome. Williams, the Pistons' player representa­tive, took the microphone at midcourt for about two minutes just after the National Anthem and thanked the fans for attending. 
The game was fairly typical NBA faro. The Pacers started with three straight 3-pointers for a 9-0 lead. 
But the Pistons, behind tho play of Stackhouse and Eric Montross, battled back to lead by as many as nine in the sec­ond quarter. 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Captain Sheila McMillen contributed eight points and four rebounds to the Irish win over Seton Hall. 
For more information on Holy Cross' one-year Candidate Program contact: 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 1-6385 
vocation. l@nd.edu 
FOLLOW HIM .... ? 


CING 
BRINK~.\ 
New student works & perfonnance improvisation 
Fri~ Feb 19 at 8 p.m. • Sat., Feb. 2_0 at 81;1.m: • Sun.. Feb. 21 at 2:30 p.m. O'Laughhn Auditonum 
Tickets on sa~e~h~~~J:,;~~,,~;~9fo~i!!U!JMg~&)
in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m. · 5 p.m., Fo,. THE ,.,.,s
Monday • Friday. ...,.,. • ....,._ ,,. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE DANCE WORKSHOP PRESENTS 
ON THE 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
had eight points off the bench. before leaving the game with a sprained knee. 
Just a few games remain on the Irish 's regular-season schedule, so this week's Big East contests with Villanova and Rutgers are crucial. Notre Dame hits the road to take on Villanova on Wednesday and then travels to Hutgerson Saturday for a game that should be a battle for second place in the conference. 

• 
., 


¾ 
-

page 16 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monda~ February 8, 1999 
., 
-,. 



GENERAL MEETING 
today 
9:30 pm 
notre dame room 2nd floor lafortune 

-

Monday, February 8, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 

Hockey 
continued from page 20 
said, "Onco again tonight, 
Forrest was as he's been; he 
made the big, critical save when 
we needed it." 
The save marked a turning point in the game, as Karr's heroics seemed to spark an offensive attack. Shortlv al'ler Adams's breakaway.· Notre Dame gave the Spartans a taste of their own medicine b.y unleashing an intense forechcck. spearheaded by team captain Brian Urick. Urick forced an MSU defenseman into an ill­advised clearing attempt. one which was gloved down by senior Aniket Dhadphale. Dhadphale then quickly passed the puck to linemate Ben Simon, who banged it home to tie. the game for his 14th goal of the year. Dhadphale's assist on tho play was point No. 100 for his career. 
The teams then played an intense but cautious third period and and an overtime in which neither managed lo score. Notre Dame's best chance in overtime came from sophomore Ryan Dolder, who got off two consecu­tive shots on Joe Blackburn, but was denied bol.h times. 
The tie was the third in a row for the Spartans, and their fourth in the last six games. Afterwards, MSU coach Ron Mason actually seemed content with the outcome. 
"You come in here, and Notre Dame is playing extremely well," Mason said. "They haven't lost here. They are a very well­coached team. You won't get many chances because they play so well positionally. Both teams are very evenly matched." 
On Saturday, the Irish needed to regroup to take on Alaska-Fairbanks Just as they have in 
the previous two meetings· this 
.... 

season, the Irish dominated the Nanooks with goaltending and special teu.ms. Notr<' Dame went four-for-four on the penalty-kill, allowing a total of' one shot in all four chances combined. In addi­tion, their power play scored twice in the first pnriod. on goals by Urick and Dhadphale, who currently leads the team in power play goals with eight. 
Notrn Dame's key players led the way offensively. and no one more so than Brian Urick. In 1l career games against the Nanooks, Urick has amassed 19 points, with 11 goals and eight assists aftnr scoring a goal and two assists on Saturday nighL 
Urick's return to the ice this weekend following a recenl hand injury was key according to Poulin. 
"llaving (Brianl back in the lineup means more than just that, because you have him back in the locker room and you have ,.... him back on the bench." 
Against 10th-place UJ\F0. Lhe Irish showed why they are a top­10 team by dominating the game on special teams. But when asked what makes this tr,am top­10 material, Urick hinted that it's more than just special teams. 
"I think it's [the power play] and our defensive play," Urick said. "We haven't given up more than two goals in a lot of games this year. Our defense and goal­tending have been the key." 
With the three-point weekend, Notre Dame managed to keep their hbme-ice record unblem­ished at 10-0-2. And just as MSU coach Mason alluded to, that perfect record on home ice will become even more important as the team heads into the playoffs. 
"We were able to maintain our home-ice record. which. as it ­continues, is going to be inlimi­dating; it is already," Poulin said. 
1999-2000 President/Vice-President 
Monday, FeLruary 8, 1999 
Voting Times: 11:00 am-1:00 pm 5:00pm-7:00pm 

(voting takes place in all Residence Halls during these times ONLY) 
Off-Campus Voting Times: 11:00am-5:30pm In Cl Parking Lot (weather-permitting) 
Don't Forget to Vote!! 
Brought to you by: Judicial Council 
.. 
.... 
... 
-
_____,____ 

page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, February 8, 1999 

.. 
...... 
8-Ball 

continued from page 20 
The Pirates spurt abruptly ended when Holloway sprained his neck after being floored by one of the most effective screens in Hickey's career. Holloway did not return. 

"They were on a roll," Hickey said. "That was a big turn. It's kind of an intimidating thing. I never meant to hurt anyone, but it was a clean play." 
With their floor general and offensive spark out of the game, Notre Dame controlled things the rest of the way. 
The Irish pushed the lead to 

as many as 20 behind a pair of 
alley-oop dunks by Murphy 
.,. 
.... 
from Dillon and some easy fast break buckets by Wyche. 
"We were on our 'A' game today," Dillon said. "We were contesting shots. We did every­thing that a good team has to do to win. Our offense basically came of our defense." 
"We wing games on the defensive end and we really shut them down" said Martin Ingelsby who had four steals, six points, and six assists. "The breakaway lay-ups really broke the game open." 
The Irish will see if they can continue to build momentum Wednesday when the Georgetown Hoyas come to the Joyce Center. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this article. 


FEB. 10  VS. GEORGETOWN  
FEB. 14  AT WEST VIRGINIA  
FEB. 17  AT SYRACUSE  
FEB. 21  VS WEST VIRGINIA  
FEB.24  AT ST. JOHN'S  
FEB.28  AT PENN STATE  

MEN'S BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 

INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions needs your help!! 
In an effort to better seive the international community and increase the diversity on our campus, we need your expenence, energy and creativity to recruit international students. 
We will nieet Monday, February 8 th at 7:00 p.m. in the basement of Grace Hall. This meeting of the entire internation;il community will 
..~ 

last only 1 hour. 
All students who attended high school abroad (US citizens and citizens of foreign countrie§) are more than welcome to attend and help our efforts. We look forward to our gathering_on Monday night! 
For questions, please call Felicia at 1-3323 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 
9 P.M. NOON 
7:30 P.M. 2 P.M. 8 P.M. 1 P.M. 



Monday, February 8, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DANIEL SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT 
A lHREE·LETTER WoRD FoR 
A FNE·LETTER 

WoRO foR "SLEEPY
A r0\JR · LETlEi 
"NIGHTTIME SNoRE.
WollO FoR 
THE "MU.TING fl\Oi4'' 15 ATTfO,CTtO iO A.LL 
MEE.TtN(,5  
CROSSWORD  ACROSS 1 Pinkish, as a steak  

u Art photo shade Ill BrownishsPitcher's 
songbirdboo-boo 33 Alpha's opposite 60 Start for a kitty , Applications 
35 A shepherd_ 81 "Black Beauty" 13 Face-to-face shepherds11 author Sewell e~am 
38 ERIC 82 Give for a while t 4 Annual theater 
39 Honest --83 Happy or sadaward "° -Ababa feeling1sLeg/toot 
connector 41 Make pretty 

11TIM 42Liptonand DOWN Twinlngs, e.g. 
1 • Airline to 1 Steals from Stockholm 44 Actor Kilmer 2 Vicinity20 Regarding, in 45 Hearty steak 

3 Lively piano
legal memos 48 France's -tunes 

21 Ruins a picnic or des Saintes 4Ginmakera Little League 48 -chi ch'uan Whitney

game, say 49 Give a damn? 

5 Clyde's partner z:tSubsidy 
in crime 23 Challenge 
51 Nuts (over) 

eEatlike­24 Sheriff's star 52 Byway of 58
7 Queue 8 Fraternity party 
61 

staple
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

s Loose, as Puzzle by Adam G. Pert shoestrings 
29Scouting
SELAWAROIOHAAAS 

10 Body wrapper 
mission, 11 "Desire Under informally 
AGITATOR VOLARE 
C A T A L I N A &.h A T E D 

the--" 
30 In the know 
SDl ¦ ETAGERE ¦ INE 

12 Notice 31 Where Memphis u At a distance
-a,.soAR 
is: Abbr. 
SP AS DU AH AM­

11 Big honeymoon 
TI TANS TERRAPIN 

49 Flabbergast 118 Mouse 50 Frayed catcher 32 Improvise, 51 Pierce with a 111 Hydroelectric 
Join The Observer
'destination musically tusk project
ANEROID MONTAGU 

1e Syracuse's team RESULTED WETTED 
33 -Methuselah

color -L I SB ON ET TE 
23 Considers 34 The Black •An•s•w•e•r•s•,0•a•n•y-th.re•e•c•1u•e•s•in-th.is•p•u•zz•1•e• MINE ¦ TUNA ARY-
staff.
24 Deep-sea Stallion, e.g. are available by touch-tone phone: 

tRE ¦ DIGITAL ¦ CUD 

explorer William 37 Adjective 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). TEABAGIMALAGASY 
25 Sleeper's woe modifier Annual subscriptions are available for the ENRICH UNBROKEN 
211 Dah's partner 38 Bride's best of Sunday crosswords from the lasr SESTET STAMPEDE 
27 90's-style letters declaration 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

LETTERS''... 1.ZZ. 

EY-.CVSE ME. 1 CA~'T Rt5t5T THE URGE 1'0 
8EAT MYStlF 5£N5£LE5S 
ON '<'OUR TABLE. 
58 Runs smoothly, as an engine 
CELEBRITlES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ted Koppel. Jack Lemmon, Mary Steenburgen. James Dean,, Lana Turner, Audrey Meadows, Marc Robertson, Nick Nolte, Gary Coleman 
Happy Birthday. Put your energy to good use. Your creative drive cou­pled with your added discipline will lead to new opporlunities. Present your ideas to those in a l.'°sition to support your efforts. Don I sell your­self short Ask and you shall n,c:eive. 'Jhis can be a year of abundance if you are willing to put in the time and effort necessary to succeed. Your numbers: 4, 7, 15, 22. 27, 40 
ARIES (Much 21-April 19): You will have a greater desire to get involved in educational affairs, cul­
tural activities and travel. Solid 
friendships will develop if you deal 
with people in an open and honest 
OH, BY 'n-lE 

WAY, THANICS woRD 
manner.000

FoR ALL YOUR PunLE? 
TAURUS (April 20-M•y 20): You can achieve plenty if you put your efforts into working on domestic pro­jects. Don't do any wmccessary trav­eling. You will not be able to come to agn,,,ment.s with in-laws or relatives. 
1-tEl.P WITH I 
000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Travel and romance go hand-in-hand. Be careful when involved in sports activ­ities. Minor injuries or exhaustion may be a problem. Schedule social outings Wiih friends. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 221: Be careful if you have to work with elec­trical equipment or machinery. Emo• tional disagre,ments will lead only to estrangement Take care of all your personal responsibilities 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take time 
to do something special for your mate. This would be a good day to
'<OU 1-\1\VE. TO 

make a commitment. Get involved in activities that involve children. You
ENVY 1-\tS SEN5E. 
OF PURP05E.. 

Wanted: Reporters 
43--Madres 52 Chianti, e.g. 45Remnant 53 Division word 47 Puts (down) 54 Elderly 
and photographers. 
411 Spoken for ss Health resort 
may consider having a child. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-S•rt. 22): Ro­mantic encounters wil be full of adventure if you remember to do something special for the person you fancy. Remember, you have to please youl'S<"lf before you can please others. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 2.3-0ct. 22): Don't rely on others to give you an honest opinion. It is best to plan social activi­ties with hiends, not family. You may want to be)IU1 a new diet or by to get rid of a bad'habit. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct, 23-Nov. 21): Changes at home will lead to upset and argwnents. Try to help those who can't do things for themselves. Short jaunts to visit relatives will be infor­mative and beneficial. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't exaggerate, or your mate may refuse to put up with you. Your abili· ty to color situations ,s fun for those you don't see that often. but for your partner it may be wtbearable. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·J~n. 19): Problems with your lover may erupt if you haven't paid proper attention to his or her needs. Don't get involved in love triangles. Put your efforts into maintaining a good repu­tation. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your ability to put things in perspec­tive will enable you lo shine at group functions. You can win points if you are willing to share your good ideas. You can move into a position of leadership. 00 
PISCES (F,b. 19-March 20): If you have neglected your duties or forgot­ten that today is a special day, you can expect to be treated poorly by your mate. You can redeem yourself if you make reservations somewhere special. 00000 
II 
.. 
.. 
-


.. 

¦ Roy and the ¦ Sampras expected to Avalanche secure 12th return to tennis circuit. straight win . p.14 
p.12

PORTS 
O 
THE 
BSERVER 
¦ HOCKEY 

Comeback keeps ND unbeaten at Joyce 
By TED BASSANI 

Sports Writer 
With two CCHA home games this past weekend, Notre Dame needed to earn three points to keep pace with the rest of the conference leaders, and that's exactly what it did. 
With a 2-2 tie against No. 4 Michigan State and a 5-2 win over Alaska-Fairbanks, the Irish now sit just two points behind third-place Michigan, who lost twice at home over the weekend. The team also gave themselves some breathing room in the race for home ice in the CCHA play­offs as they opened up a four­point lead over fifth-place Northern Michigan. 
Friday's matchup against the Spartans was not only No. 4 ver­sus No. 9 in the national polls but the CCHA's best power play unit (Notre Dame) versus its best penalty-killing unit (Michigan State). In the early going, Michigan State's penalty-killing took control by killing off two straight Notre Dame power plays, which included a short 5­on-3 skating advantage for the Irish. 
However, when the Spartans got their first two power play chances later on in the first peri­od, the results were radically dif­ferent. In a span of 2:26, Rustyn Dolyny and Bryan Adams each scored power play goals to give MSU a quick 2-0 lead. Entering 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 
the game Michigan State had only lost once all year when scoring the first goal (17-1). 
After spotting the Spartans a two-goal lead. the Irish needed to turn things around quickly, and their power play unit, as .it has all year, did just that. After making a great play to keep the puck in the offensive zone, senior Benoit Cotnoir fired a wrist shot through a screen which beat goaltender Joe Blackburn to narrow the gap to 
2-1. 

One constant throughout the game for Michigan State was their play on faceoffs, where they dominated Notre Dame for most of the night. Senior Mike York and junior Shawn Horcoff took most of the draws for MSU, and won them with stunning regularity. 
"Tonight they pretty much owned us on faceoffs," said Irish center Ben Simon. "I don't think it was a matter of focus, they were just really good off the faceoff." 
Notre Dame trailed by one entering the second period. MSU speedster Bryan Adams took a long, floating pass through cen­ter ice and broke in all alone against Forrest Karr. Adams then took an NHL-type shot up high to try to beat Karr to the glove side, but Karr denied him with a dazzling save. 
Afterwards, coach Dave Poulin 
see HOCKEY/ page 17 
Irish easily sail past Pirates, 76-60 
By JOEY CAVATO 
Associate: Spores Editor 
Saturday's basketball game in East Rutherford, N.J. against the Seton Hall Pirates was a homecoming for freshman Troy Murphy, but Irish coach John Macleod probably enjoyed it more. 
A 62-percent field-goal percentage, a 22-13 assist-to-turnover ratio, and a defensive effort that holds an opponent to 31 percent shooting from the field will put a smile on any coach's face. 
Winning back-to-back games for the first time since the first week of January widens that smile a bit.
.... 
Murphy's 22 points led the Irish to a 76-60 victory over Seton Hall. He had plenty of help from Antoni Wyche, Harold Swanagan and Phil Hickey, who all scored in double figures as Notre Dame put together one of their better team efforts ofthe season. 
"J liked the way we approached this one," Macleod told the South Bend Tribune. "We wanted to make sure that we were ready. This was encouraging.'' 
After the Pirates jumped out to a four-point lead, Murphy took over on offense, connecting on five of his first six shots. 
Behind solid defense and a productive transition game, the Irish got out to a 20-11 lead. The Pirates challenged the lead several times, but Notre Dame rose to the occasion each time. 
Jimmy Dillon drained a three-pointer at the end of the first half pushing the score to 38-27 at intermission. The Hall's Shaheen Holloway started out the second half about as quickly as his first step and cut the lead to four points. 
see B-BALL/ page I8 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Niele Ivey led the Irish to victory over Seton Hall Saturday, chipping in 11 assists and 15 points. 
Ivey shoots down Seton Hall 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Spores Editor 

Junior guard Niele Ivey scored a game-high 15 points and dished out a season-high 11 assists, as the sixth ­ranked Notre Dame women's basketball team (19-2) rolled to a 77-49 victory over Seton Hall on Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish committed 16 first-half turnovers and kept the Pirates in the game for the first 20 minutes. but went on a 14-0 run in the second to pull away and cruise to their 10th-straight victory. 
"I thought defensively we played a pretty good game," head coach Muffet McGraw said. "Offensively we really struggled in the first half. Although we shot the ball well, our execution was poor and we turned it over 16 times which way over even our high average. l think it was a little bit of a loss of concentration and focus, but we got that back in the sec­ond half." 
Notre Dame clung to a 33­27 halftime lead, but played with more intensity in the sec­ond half and ran the floor extremely well. 
"In the first half, our offense was really bad," i:;aid Ivey, who was 6-of-7 from the field on the afternoon. "I was try­ing to execute, but it wasn't really working, so I was just trying to get any open looks. One offense that was working was the transition, so I was just trying to throw the ball up and get some good looks in the open court." 
The Irish had 23 points off turnovers and outscored the 
'TODAY, I JUST HAD A 
GOOD FEELING INSIDE THAT I WOULD PIAY WELL.' 
ERICKA HANEY 
FRESHMAN FORWARD 
Pirates 12-2 on fast break points. 
Freshman Ericka Haney gave the Irish quality minutes off the bench and picked up the slack for the ineffective Ruth Riley, who finished with just six points. 
"Today, I just had a good feeling inside that I would play well," said Haney, who had 14 points on 7-of-10 shooting and pulled down six rebounds. 
"I came out relaxed, but I was a bit nervous and tried to do what I know I can do." 
"I thought Ericka did a great job down low, but Ruth I thought just wasn't aggres­sive," McGraw said. "I think she really didn't attack them. She didn't have a lot of oppor­tunities. She was O-for-1 at halftime at halftime and didn't have any offensive rebounds. I'm not sure if it was their defense pushing her off or if it was her, but I thought they played well defensively in the first half." 
Haney also played a big part in the Irish full court pressure, which forced the Pirates into 28 turnovers and limited them to just 28-per­cent shooting from the field. 
"I thought in the second half. we came out with a little more pressure," McGraw said. "I thought starting Ericka was a big key to that. She was able to come out and hawk the ball a little more and force them into turning the ball over a little bit more." 
Sophomore forward Kelley Siemon also played well in the blocks for Notre Dame, as she finished with five rebounds and 10 points on 4-of-5 shoot­ing. 
Freshman Sherisha llills 
see IRISH/ page 15 
Men's Tennis 
at Villanova 
at Kentucky 
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
Tuesday, 2 p.rn. 
al Michigan Scm:

-
ATA Friday, 8 p m. 
vs. Georgetown Women's Tennis Wednesday, 9 p.m. vs. Ohio Seate
GLANCE 
Friday, 6 p.m. 


