

Jusl lo re'cap' 

Friday
¦ Look back at rhe srories rhar capmred the ¦ Find our whar's happening on campus on com­past four years. mencement day with schedules ofevents for Notre 
MAY 14,

Dame and Saint Mary's. 
News• 5-7 Inside • 2 
1999 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 133 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Grads bid adieu to ND, SMC 
After four years of juggling busy class schedules, a changing social scene, crazy football weekends and close friendships, the Class of 1999 will say goodbye. 
They have heard about tradition; they have heard story after story about the unique character that each of their schools has to offer. They have learned the simple skill of lJI \. building lofts and the more delicate art of constructing a future. They have spent · ~ ,l hundreds of late nights in front of computer screens and textbooks, and lilied mil­. lions of minutos with conversations that built the friendships that they will carry with them for the rest of their lives. 
This weekend 1,796 Notre Dame undergraduates and 325 Saint Mary's under­graduates will say goodbye to their college years, carrying with them the tradi­tion they have spent four years learning to understand. 
,· .• Each of the classes have watched their schools change throughout their ?~ stay; there was a constant growth in technology on both campuses. Notre1~-,, Dame saw thn construction of several new buildings -four new dorms, the :\ ' additions to Notre Dame Stadium and the Main Building, and Holfs Sports and {t •. Hecrcation Center, Saint Mary's students gave input for future renovation '.)L· : plans by voicing theii: ideas for the Performa proposal and utilized a wired 
·~.. campus with cable and ResNet for the first time. '.:'-.. Saint Mary's students bid goodbye to former president William Hickey ,:{~ and welcomed current president Marilou Eldred as she took the adminis­
•·· ,:::. · • trative reins in 1997. They also celebrated academic excellence, helping >) Saint Mary's to a No. 1 U.S. News and World Report ranking for five straight years. ,. The graduating seniors have also witnessed and participated in debate · on issues like the Spirit of Inclusion and admission into the Big Ten. 
They helped raise alcohol awareness in the wake of Stop · Underage Drinking and Sales (SUDS) raids on Bridget McGuire's Filling Station in 1998 and The lrishi---­Connection last semester. 
As commencement exercises rapidly approach, graduates are jumping at the chance to relax after the 
Valedictorians spent college focused on life, service 
haven't loved. The grades just followed year's valedictorian.Education and biology l'rorn those experiences." Chemical engineering "I feel so honornd," she said. "It's An elementary education major and still shocking."
major came to learn, biology minor, Ferkenhoff has been able major thanks family, llumility comes naturally to the to develop her interest in biology and chemical enginnnring major from 
not compete for grades combine it with teaching children during friends for successes Cottage Grove, Wis., who said that it hor lime al Saint Mary's. The science wouldn't havo bnen "physically or
By COLLEEN McCARTHY By CHRISTINE KRALY
classes she took focusod mainly on envi­omotionally possible" to get where she
Saint M.,ry's Ediwr Assisrant News Edi1or
ronnrnntal issues. is today without her family and Ferkenhoff credits Saint Marv's with friends. Her grandfather. esp1icially,
Saint Mary's senior and valedictorian Jennifer Ehren loves to sing. Wlrnn
belpin"g her "was always
Carrie she's not
realize her tal­my roleFerkenholl has studying, the ent for sci­
model." 
nevor buen 
1999 Notre
INITIALLY CAME TO ence. 'THERE HAVE BEEN UPS "Family and
' I 

focused on Dame vale­
SAINT MARY'S BECAUSE "I've always AND DOWNS. I CAN'T friends are the
grudPs. dictorian
been interest­most important
This is partly I KNEW THERE WAS AN sings in IMAGINE BEING ANYWHERE
ed in environ­things fin
why sho said Chorale and
EMPHASIS ON LEARNING AND mental issues. ELSE.' life]," she said.
she was "sur­loves to go
From experi­"I'd quit," she
prisnd and NOT ON COMPETING FOR out dancing 
ences in high added, if a job
shocked" when with her
GRADES.' school, I had JENNIFER Elli/RN ever threat­
she was friends. Her
developed the NOTRE DAME VALEDIC'fORIAN ened her clos­
namnd thn most impor­
imprflssion est relation­
Class of 1999 tant memo-
CARRIE FHRKENHOFF that I was not ships.
valedictorian. ries of Notre 
SAINT MAI/Y's VAL£D[Cf01/IAN good at sci-But Ehren won't have to worry about
"I initially Dame, in fact, involve friends and vol­
ence," said any corporate stress for a while. On 
came Lo Saint unteer service work rather than acad·
Ferkenhoff. "But when I came to Saint May 28 slw begins a two-year commit•
Mary's becaus1i I knew tlrnrn was an emia. 
Mary's, that changed with the first class ment to Notre Dame's Alliance for
emplrnsis on learning and nol competing "There have been ups and downs,"
I took in the science department. The Catholic Education (ACE) program, a
for grades," i.;erk1'llhoff said. "There is said Ehren of' her time at Notre Dame. hardly a class here that I've taken that I "l can't imagine being anywhere else." see SMC I page 4 She also can't believe she is this see ND/ page 4 

----·----~---------11111"""..____________.,...___-i 
page: 2 The Observer• INSIDE Friday, May I4, 1999 
¦ INS!UE COLUMN Puzzle Pieces ½'hen I was growing up, my sister and I spent our quality time hunclmd over jigsaw puzzles. We wanted to see how fast we could linish, so we'd slave over 1.hcm for hours, racing to see who could do the most or-;~~;;:;;;;;:;;;;;­who got the satisfaction of fltting in the lasl piece. To entertain oursdves, we'd make up stories about Bach image we put togf~thnr. HccPntly. as I reflected on mv time at Notru Dam<~. I realized that Heather Cocb Sundav. the Class of EJiror-111-Chief Emcrims 1999 IJ11gins a rNtl-life puzzle ­one I never want to complete. When our student llJ eards flXpire, we embark on a tough transition. Our group splin­ters into 2.000 pinces and scatters, lefl grasp­ing al memory fragments from these four years. Each memory is integral to an infinite mental jigsaw; to forever remember tlrn whole -t!w i-,"fOwth. kmrning, loving and partying ­we must keep fitting pieces together. Entirn sections oft.ht, puzzle belong lo l'riends and roommates, the people who nursed you throu~h tough times, celebrated your successes and managed to spill Papa John's garlic sauce on your heads at least once. They knew just when to help you procrastiuate a big paper by watching "Reality Bites," and you cheered on their Bookstore Basketball squad both in victo­ry and defeat. There might also be a piece-for-your rector or for that trusted professor-turned-friend who opened both home and heart to you. And with the rich academic opportunities here, your puz­zle probably ¼ill include classes that broad­ened both mental and spiritual horizons. Even people you never really knew will some­how lit seamlessly into the mental jigsaw. It could be the columnist you read or the one you reviled; perhaps it's the guy/girl you chat with before class, the one you stared at in the dining halls or the security guard that never bought your excuses to drive on campus, Weekend memories might include the 3 a.m. Fat Shirley's crowd or Ron from The 'Backer. Some of my fondest weeknight memories include Observer staffers who stayed at work until 4, 5, or even 9 a.m., and of course the 7 a.m. crowd at Nick's Patio ­yes, that place does serve beer that early in the morning. The jigsaw isn't complete without pieces that reflect the tough times that shaped us into stronger people. I reserve some big, ugly pieces of my puzzle for the University administration. which never recognizes the true value and intelligence or its student body. I shudder at its refusal to amend the non-discrimination clause, its refusal to respect the students and its attempts to infringe upon the free press through lousy, undocumented advertising poli­cies that The Observer's flditorial board detests. Administrators routinely avoid putting anything in writing, ostensibly to evade accountability for their discriminatory thinking. ln and of itself. however, Notre Dame should not be defined in narrow "conservative, Catholic school" parameters, The unique, intangible magic permeating campus radiates from the students, who bring diverse experi­ences and beliefs to this campus. The adminis­tralinn ought lo value that. Unlike the jigsaws of my youth, this is one puzzle I never want to complete. Happiness comes not from finishing this puzzle but from the sheer joy of connecting more and more pieces, reliving the story behind each one. So stop, take a deep brnath, and absorb these last glorious momnnts nf' college. Good luck. May you never put the final piece into your personal puzzle of Nolre Dame mem• orics. The views expressed in lhe Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.  Gleason to receive Laetare Medal Srecial to Tbe Observer celebratr, them also in awarding him The Laetarn Medal is so namnd this richly deserved honor," he said. because its recipient is announced Phillip Gleason, professor emeritus Gleason, whose scholarship also each year just before Laetarn Sunday, of history at Notre Dame, will receive includes U.S. intellectual and social the fourth Sunday of Lent. "Llwtarc," the University's 1999 Laetare Medal. history. has been a member of Notre Lhe Lalin word for "rejoice," is tlrn widely regarded as the most presti­Oamp,'s faculty since 1959. A native of first word in the entrance antiphon of' gious honor Wilmington, Ohio, he graduated from the Mass that Sunday, which ritually awarded to the Univcrsitv of Dayton in 1951 and anticipates the celebration of' Easter. American worked bri('Oy for the U.S. Air Force Tim medal bears the Latin inscription, Catholics, at and as an eighth grade teacher before "Magna est veritas et prnvalebit": Salurday's com­coming to Notre Dame to pursue a "Truth is mighty, and it shall prevail." mencement exer­master's degrnc in history. lie Established at Notre Dame in 1883, cises. received that degree in 1955 and his the Laetarn Medal was conceived as "As the leading doctoral degree in 1960. an American counterpart of' the ligurn in the histo­Gleason chaired ~otr0 Dame's histo­Golden Hose, a papal honor whichGleasonry of American ry department from 1971-74. He was antedates the 1 l th century. Tim c·atholic higher a visiting professor of' American m1>.dal has beon awarded annually at education, Phil Gleason set a rigorous Catholic hisio1·y at Catholic Cniversity Notre Dame to a Catholic "whose standard of faith-inspired scholarship. of America in 1982 and chair of the genius has ennobled the arts and sci­As an interpreter of American ethnici­Catholic Commission on lntBllectual ences, illustratPd tlrn idPals of th<! ty and immigration, he won the an Cultural Affairs from 1986-88. Church and enrichnd tho heritage of acclaim of historians throughout Gleason has receivf\d numf\rous humanity." Europe and the U.S. for his insights awards from Notre Dame for his Among the 120 previous recipim1ts into the assimilation of diverse peo­teaching and scholarship, He also has of the Laetare Mtidal arc Civil War ples into a truly national community." received an honorary doctor of' Gr-neral William· Rosncrttns, operatic University president Father Edward humane letters degree from Loyola ·i:,hior .ldhl1 McC"Llrii1'ar.'ii,''t:atHoli'c Malloy said an award announcement. University in Chicago, the University Worker founder Dorothy Day, novelist "Phil's tenacious fidelity to the of Dayton's Marianist Award and the Walker Percy, Joseph Cardinal Church and to Catholic inte!k{ctual life Theodore M. llesburgh Award from Bernardin, death p1rnalty abolitionist recalls many scholars and teachers of the Association of Catholic Colleges Sister lfolen Pn,jean and medical ethi­his generation at Notre Dame, and we and Universities. cist Dr. Edmund Pellegrino. COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND Ydea~ o/~oent!;, FRIDAY. MAY, 14/ FRIDAY, MAY, 14 9 p.m.sJ'i!,r'O..... • •·• •I · ·•·· •·..· . i ~. 4p.m.GRADUA'flONDANCE: Joyce Center'-North Dome BACCALAUREATE MASS: Angela Athletic Facility sATlJiJIDA-v.MAv;1s· ·"··•··•·•,.~,,•,.,""""-, 5:30-7 p.m.·-·xtt··~--· ...,.-... ,, • SENIOR DINNER: Noble Family Dining Hall ····IT~ii~tsi;-)(B~$SPil~N;/,C(;E 7:30~10:30 p.m . . ,, . SENIOR RECEPTION: Century Center ·. 5-6:~ Pin . . ... . .... · > <>,, COMMENCEMENTMASS:..doyceOenter-South Dome 1r,..,, ·· ...··.:re>· .····,>•• SATURDAYMAY, 15SUN DAY, MAY, 16 ~• . 1:30 p,rn: > \ .fa, ,~:1r 8:30-11 a.m.DIPLOMA DISTRIBUTION:·• Joyce Center -North Dome SENIOR BRUNCH: Noble Family Dining Hall Noon·12t8ifMtC PROCESSION: . Joyce Centers North Dome COMMENCEMENT: Le Mans Courtyard (poor weather: Angela Athletic Facility)3-5 p;m. . . COMMENCEMENT: Joyce Center· South Dome Following Commencement COMMENCEMENT RECEPTION: Dining Hall Green 5:30p.m. LAW SCHOOL CEREMONY: Hesburgh Reflecting Pool The Obscn·cr/,Joc Mueller  
University bestows awards upon professors Special to The Observer the Outstanding Teacher College of Business Shi Its/Leonard toach in g Award from this year's law Administration award in the Colloge of' The Colleges of Arts and school graduates. Undergraduate Teaching Science. Letters, Science, Douglas Kinsey, profes­Award. In addition. 50 und11r­Engineering and Business sor of art history and Michael Sain, Freimann graduate teaclrnrs earrwd Administration and the design, won the Sheedy professor of electrical engi­the first Kaneb Teaching Law School presented sev­Award for excellence in neering, was the recipient Awards. which cclebratl' eral teachers with out­teaching in Arts and ol' the College ol' the full extent of cx1:ellnnt standing teacher awards Letters. Engineering's Oulstanding undergraduato l!~aching at for the 1998-99 academic Katherine Speiss, assis­Teacher Award. Notre Dame. year. tant professor of finance Dennis Jacobs, associate The award was creatnd Patrick Schiltz, associate and business economics professor chemistry and from a gift by University professor of law, received was the winner of the biochemistry, received the trustee John Kancb. ¦ LOCAL WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forecast I 30s Acru\Venther:IJ forecast for <..layt!me t:on<lilion:,; and high temperature:-; 30s ·. · .1'' .;~.. -·•.. o/t1ll( .,.H L I Friday ~ 67 45 Saturday ~77 51 Sunday ~83 56 FRONTS:Monday ~83 66 ...........................I © 1999 AccuWeather. lne. COLO WARM STATIONARY Pressure:Tuesday ~ 81 65 l®CD .... D@ ' ! High Low Showers Rain r-storms_F_lu_rr_ies__sn_o_w ·­.I~:, Sunny Pt. Cloud~l~·udy  
News Scene Tim Logan Mike Vanegas Chri,rine Kraly Graphics Anne M3rie Mattingly Joe Mueller J\ioreen Gillespie Production Sports Noah Amsrader Brian Kessler Lab Tech Mike Connolly Kevin Daluni  
Viewpoint Jeff Hsu Colleen G,1ugh(.'11 The Ol»nvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i, puGli.,hcd :vlonday rhrougli Frida) i:xtcp1 durU1g cx.iirn :ud vacuion period:,. Th, Ob.-.crvcr i, a mcmLer tll ,he A:i,soc.:i:1te<l Pn·,i.. All r.epmJt1ction righri. ,1n:-reserved.  V18 Ass ,a1~ Press Atlanta 80 59 Las Vegas 96 62 Portland 52 47 Ballimore 62 51 Memphis 84 61 San Francisco 61 49 Boston 58 49 Milwaukee 56 50 SI Louis 79 60()~;;.~-~<} ,c.~ c~ -o ~J c:2. Chicago 66 52 New York 70 53 Tampa 84 66 Stwwers f.storms R.ein Ffur;ies s~;: Ice Sunny Pt Cioudy Cloudy Houston 89 71 Philadelphia 7D 49 Wash. O.C. 66 54 Via Assaciatltd P,ess Graph1csNe1  



--------------------------i--------------.. 
hiday, May 14, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
-===F==r===e==s==-=h:....::..-=m==a==n~lo=-=-=s=-=-e-===s==-==; fight with cancer 
ND prep ares for Dunbar hearing 
By NOREEN GIUESPIE As:.isr,mt Nem E<liror 
Miranda Thomas came to Nolrn Damn last August jusL likf' ,wr•ry othor incoming l'rnshman, ready to take on the world -or at tho very loast. tJm campus. 
But she had 110 ido1t what shn would bu taking on. 
In Snptemh1•r. Thomas was diagnos,•d with louknrnia, and 1<1n campus to scnk trnutmt'nt at tho Indiana University Cancur Clmlor in Indianapolis. Sim 1·uceiv()d 11 bonu marrow Lransplant in early February, bul died Monday allor an eight­mon1h bntt.ln with tho disease. 
But. she will leave behind ,a rmm1ory, howc•vtlr brief, and a lesson about strongth to those who knew her well. 
''Slw was able Lo laugh ewm lhroughout her sickness.~ snid Wnlsh llall resident assistant Patty Um1rn1!. "Wrwn we spoke on thti phono, slw was always laughing. making jokes about her doctors und medicines. Shi~ could rind reasons lo laugh !!Ven in tho darkest times." 
While Thomas' time at Notre fJmno lastnd only thrno weP.ks, it was evident to thosn around her that she would huve made a trmnendous impact cm tho Univnrsity. 
,, member of Walsh llall's interhall football team, Thomas' tenacity was unpar­alleled. 
"She was thought of as one of' the strongest, toughest and most aggressive girls in the hall.'' Ummel said. "She could tnko anybody out." 
Her potential for impact at Notre Dame was also evident in thosn first lhl'ef1 wMks. 
MI was jusl getting to know her, but she was very person­able. She would have had a zil­lion frionds hem," said Walsh llall rector Sister Patricia Thomas. 
"Slw was a lal'ge comributor to the Univorsity, even in those three weeks,'' said Ummel. ''She was going to be hugll." 
Thomas kept in contact with friends at Notro Dame during her illness both through phone calls and letters, 
"She always talked cl.bout her goals for tho lllness -what she wanted to do that week. She always sounded hopeful. J\ lot ol' lhe time she didn't achieve those goals, but she never sefJm<'d to tire." 
Dut instead of looking for supporl, it was Thomas who gave it. 
''I will always remember what an example she was," Limmel said. "Miranda showed us how to be strong -she showed us when we were wor­rying 1tbout grndes, und ksL,;, · and roommate problems, about strength.... It shows what an incrodible person shri was.'' 
Thomas returned to her home in Sturgis, Ky., last week alter doctors realizod there was nothing more they could do, Sister Thomas said. 
"She got to see her l'amily and friends before she died," Sister Thomas said. 
Funeral services were held in her hometown Wednesday morning. 

ByTIM LOGAN 
News Ediror 
Notrn Danw oflidals will attend a hearing before the NCAA Committnn on lnl'ractions on Friday, .Juno 4 LO discuss the University's allegod violations involving gil'ts l'ormer football bouslnr Kimbnrly Dunbar guve to a numhBr of formflr Irish playnrs. 
To preparn for tlrn lrnaring, lhe Univt~rsity has rntainml the sur­vic1-1s or Bond, Schonll(ick & King, a lirm that specializes in dealing with tlrn NCAA. The hearing was ealll'd al'tnr tlw Committee 011 Infractions dclnrmincd that major violations may have occurrr.d. Notro Damn has not appcarnd before lhn commiltce since 1.971. 
While tlrn NCAA 11111'orcement staff first characterized the viola­tions as socondarv, tho Committee on Infractions wa11tcd to study Hw matter on its own, according to committee chair David Swank. Attempts to contact Swank were unsuccnssful, but he has indicatod in the past that his committee's desire for a hearing was not a rcjm:tion of the enforcement staffs rncommondation. 
"We want to have a careful look at tho case to make surn that it is in fact a secondary case, or if it's a major case,., Swank told the Chicago Tribune. "Hegardless of' whether it's secondary or major, you'd have to decide what pnnal­tics should be imposed." 
The enforcement staff studied Notre Dame's report. interviewed people involved and considered earlier precedent in concluding that a secondary violation had occurmd. said Chuck Smrt, NCAA director of Enforcement. 
"We made a recommendation that they process it as secondary," Smrt said, but the Committee on lnl'ractions chose to file the case as major and hold a hearing. For a case to bn processed, the cnforcc­mm1l staff must believe that a vio­l a tion of some kind has talwn place, according to SmrL 
At the hearing, the cnforcnment sLaff mcmbPrs will road the allega­tions and report their findings, I\Jotre Dame otlicials will havP an opportunity to respond and tlw Committee on lnl'ractions will ask questions. 
'WEWANT TO HAVE A 
CAREFUL LOOK AT THE 

CASE TO MAKE SURE THAT IT IS 
IN FACT A SECONDARY CASE, 
OR IF IT'S A MAJOR CASE.' 
1)11 V//J SW/INK 

NCAA COMM/ITEi: ON INFHACTlONS 
University president Father Edward Malloy will be among those attending the hearings on bt>halfof Notre Dame. 
Bond, Schoeneck & King will help Notre Dame preparo, accord­ing to Dennis Moore, director of Public Helations. 
"We have no experiencn of this process. This is what they spocial­ize in," he said. "You're looking for someone who knows to advise you on what the process is." 
University officials are revinw­ing the information they reported to the NCAA and are putting togethnr a response to the letter of inquiry sent by the Committee on Infractions. The response was returned Monday, Moore said. 
After the hearing. the Committee on Infractions will deliberate 011 possible sanctions, a process that could take as long as six weeks. Once the committee returns its decision, the University 
will haV!! 15 days to appnal. 
Penallics for a major violation could includ1~ a loss of tehwision appcarancns or rnstriclions on rncruiting or postseason play. Sncondary violations carry u smaller sanction, ranging l'rom probation without penalty to a minor loss ofscholarships. 
Notre Dame has 11cwer bnnn assnssed for a major violation. Tlw University has appnared boforn tho Commilt1w on lnf'ractions twirn -in I1Jli7 am.I again in l CJ7 I -but did not rnceiv11 sanctions in oitlrnr 1·,aso. 
Since rnporling tlw inddent to th1) NCAA in March I1J<J8, Notre Damn has continued to share information with tlH1 NCAA en[hrcement staff. 
Whiln FSPN rPporlcld last w1\ek that Dunbar took fnrmnr Irish players Jarvis Edison and Allen Hossurn, along with Hossum's girl­friend, on a trip to Las Vegas in 1997, Moorn said that is not a new deve!opnwnt in tlw case. It is one of the inddnnts tlw University reported to the NCM. 
"I ESPN I was bending over backward to give the impression that there was somothing new in the case, but. tlrnre wasn't," lw said. "Nothing that has come nut is tho least bit new lo us or to thu NCAA. we'vn givnn it all to them." 
Dunbar. who is curnmtly sfirv­ing a four-year prison term for embezzling morn than $1.4 mil­lion from Dominiack Mechanical, Inc. of South Bend. reportedly gave $18,000 in gifts to l 2 Notre Damn football play­ers, five of whom were mcmlmrs of the 1998 squad. Any gifts given after .lunn 1995 arc con­sidered violations of NCAA regu­lations because of Dunbar's $25 membership in tho Quarterback Club, which has since been dis­banded. 



CONGRATULATIONS TO 
THE 
BSE 

GRADUATING SENIORS 



NIKKI ADDESSO DEREK BETCHER JEN BRESLOW MICHAEL BROUILLET KYLE CARLIN JOEY CAVATO PETE C1 LELLA HEATH ER COCKS MATT CURRERI SARAI-I DYLAG ERIN EMMONS 
MICHAEL FLYNN MIKE FUJI SCOTT HARDY SARAH HILTZ KEN KEARNEY JASON KENNEDY KRISTI KLITSCH ALLISON KRI LLA DAVE LAH EIST KATH LEEN LOPEZ 
PAUL LEE ALEXIS LEHRER EDDIE LLULL HEATHER MACKENZIE CRISTIN MANARY LISA MAXBAUER KERRY MCPARTLIN ISABEL PEREZ BRIAN REINTHALER SPENCER STEFKO DAN SULLIVAN 
THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR HARD WORK, DEDICATION AND LEADERSHIP. You HAVE HELPED BUILD A NEWSPAPER TRADITION THAT WE ARE PROUD TO CONTINUE. Gooo LUCK IN ALL YOUR ENDEAVORS. 
-THE 1999-2000 STAFF 
page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 14, 1999 

Senior Week activities have rate that into the various plans "Working at Feruwood, I was kept students busy while they I used to teach my fourth grade doing exactly what I wanted to
Farewell SMC 
prepare to take their place in class." do," she said. "I gave presenta­continued from page 1 the world beyond South Bend. continued from page 1 Throughoul her fuur years at· tions to students about what Many graduates have Johs Saint Mary's, Fcrkenhoff was a animals do in winter. took them stress of finals and enjoy the waiting for them this summer. prnf'essors in the biology member of the track team her on hikes and did pond studies. relationships they have built dt~partment were so supportive. freshman year and the cross My boss gave me the freedom to
while others will continue 
I realized that science was a country team her junior year. teach, create displays and come
over the past four years. their education in graduate 
talent I had and not a weak­Along with three other Saint up with lesson plans designed
Excitement. disbelief and schools around the country. 
ness." Mary's students, Ferklrnhoff to teach children about the
nervousness are the l"oelings Elizabeth Dole, former presi­
Ferkenhoff was able to use started the Saint Mary's environment.·•
sweeping the campuses as dent of the R1!d Cross and a 
her student teaching experience Environmental Coalition her Ferkenhoff' also served as aseniors wind down their four possible presidential candidate this year to incorporate ele­sophomore year. Besides edu­teaching assistant for an years. 
in 2000. will give the Notre ments of environmental educa­cating people, the group holds ornithology class. "I cannot bfllieve !'ours years Dame commencement address tion. recycling drives every week "I took the orinthology class have come and gone," said at the exercises which start at "I was finally able to use what during the academic year. She my sophomore year and men­Notre Dame senior Tricia 3 p.m. on Sunday. one hour I have been learning and see is also involved in Peacemakers. tioned to my professor that I Sevilla. "It's all felt like one latf'r than past ceremonies. how it worked," she said. "It Ferkenhofrs love of teaching wished I could take it all over packed year with all of the was wonderful to be able to do and environmental. education again," said Ferkenhoff. "She
Dole will receive an honorary 
changes on campus and events doctor of laws degree from a lot. of lesson plans and, since I l.ed her to work al Hum Village asked me to TA in the class so I wo've been a part of." knew my passion was environ­Nature Center and Fernwood did get to takn it all over again.
University president Father 
mental education, to incorpo-Botanical Gardens. just without the tests."
'Tm definilely nervous," said 
Saint Mary's senior Kelly Curtis. "It's a scary thing to leave a place that you've become so comfortalile in." 
After acting as information resoun.:es this year for many underclassmen. the Class of 1999 finally has time this week to ret1ect on what coll('ge has meant to them. In mosi cases, this has been the friendships and the sense of "home" that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's provide. 
"It's so easy living here. [Notre Dame! kind of becomes home and you siart. thinking of this place more as home than your actual home," said '.\!otre Dame senior Sean Leonard. 
"After only one semester here. I knew that my life was at Saint Mary's," said Saint Mary's senior Jamie Simmons. "My first memory is driving down the tree-lined road, just knowing that this was the only place I wanted to be." 
"l just grew up being here," said Saint Mary's senior Carey O'Neill. "The friendships that I have gained here have helped me grow both spiritually and intellectually, and I know that these are going to be the friends that I keep for the rest of my life." 
Many seniors agree that friendships are the most important part of what makes Notre Dame and Saint Mary's special. 
"It's been four awesome years," Notre Dame senior Erik Endler. "The friendships will be what we remember more than any class." 
But leaving the security blan­ket of those friends is frighten­ing as well as sad, seniors said. 
"I didn't expect to make such lifelong friendships here," Curtis said. "It is scary to leave that." 
Edward Mallny during the cer­emony. 
Jane Bryant Quinn, the nation's leading commentator on personal finance and Washington Post syndicated columnist. will speak to Saint Mary's graduates at com­mencement exercises on Saturday at noon in the Le Mans courtyard. The valedic­torian for the Saint Mary's class or 1999 is Carrie Fcrkenhoff. 
Notre Dame's valedictory address will be delivernd by Jennifer Ebron. a chemical cnginoe ring major from Cottage Grove. Wis. Ehren, a Howard Hall resident, was chosen by a committee from the 0flice of the Provost to give the address from a field of 1 7 students selected by the deans of the four colleges and the school of architecture. 
Notre Dame will also award a number of honorary degrees Sunday. The recipients are: Aaron Feuerstein, president and chief executive officer of Malden Mills Industries; Hoberto Gutierrez, president and cofounder of the Hispanic Telecommunications Network: Patrick Mccartan. managing partner of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue; Gabrielle Kirk McDonald, president of the International Criminal Tdbune for the former Yugoslavia; Regis Philbin, veteran broad­caster and cohost of "Live! With Regis and Kathie Lee;" Cornelius Pings, president emeritus of the Association of American Universities; Sister Kathleen Ross. president of Heritage College; John Schiffer. senior physicist and associate director of the physics division at Argonne National Laboratory; and Edmund Cardinal Szoka, presi­dent of the Pontifical Commission for Vatican City. 

The University of Notre Dame Asian Pacific Alumni Board of Directors 
congratulates the following graduating students: 
Graduate Students  
Kathleen Canavan  Ameya Gurunath Bijoor  Clifford Domingo Manuel  
Joyce Chiyee Chan  Paul David Chen  Diana Yue Mao  
Charmaine Tsin Ming Chiu  Raymond Chung  Jeremy Brian Morris  
Joshua Foster  Nicole Cruz  Brian Kenneth Morten  
Yi-Min Fu  Rachel Anne Cuenca  John Kenichi Nakajima  
Michael Takashi Haworth  Ryan Keola Dang  Mary-Geraldine Paguio Navoa  
Mari Ishibashi  Donald Flores De Leon  Joseph Philip Olegario  
Jong-Eun Lee  Paula Marie Dionisio  Kristy Leinani Perry  
Yung Chui Lee  Marjorie Joyce Duyongco  Brandon Seichi Ponce  
Yong Lu  Michael Richard Emerson  Keith Veera Porapaiboon  
Chi Yong Pak  Kori Kenneth Erickson  Lisa Kay Porapafboon  
Rod Phasouk  Bettle Michelle Ferguson  Mathew Lawrence Potts  
Jay Shiv Sidhra  Carrie Elizabeth Flanagan  Gita Chatherine Pullapilly  
Ming Sun  Alexander Nathan Fong  Christina Mae Reyes  
Deborah Yin-Yin Upadhye  Rebekah Marlyam Go  Alvin Salapong Robles  
Suzanna Barleani Waslto  Marissa Querubin Grabato  Patricia Anne Sevilla  
Lisa Marie Watanabe  Raam Subhash Jani  Mark Satoshi Shimizu  
Jeremy Pual-Heaton Williams  Pamela Elsa Japllt  Carl Joseph Tadaki  
Ha Kung Kung Wong  Rhodessa Fidela Kabatay  Angela Margaret Torma  
Ling Yang  Sabrina Lucy Kumar  Leigh Mathew Tsuji  
Vincent Amory Kuna  Michael YI Velten  
Undergraduate Students ·  Marla Lee  Marie Anh Vu  
Kathryn Diane Abeln  Paul Mlng-wha Lee  Chak Kei Jacqueline Woo  
Anthony Adams Andres  David Shung-kei Leung  Michael Yen-Li Yang  
Frank Joseph Bartek  Daniel Joseph Lid  Justin Kwai Mung Young  
Rajit Kumar Basu  Erin Malla Lum  David Victorino Yu  
Shana Kimberley Beckham  Cyrus Cervantes Lutero  Tammy Yu  

Best wishes for a successful future! 
ND 
continued from page 1 

position she chose over a Fulbright leaching-assistant­ship in Korea. 
She described the "gut­wrenching" decision of choos­ing ACE over the Fulbright as "probably the hardest decision of my lil'e." She didn't wanl to get "caught up" with the Fulbright name, she said, instead of doing something she really wanted Lo do. 
Ehren will join 46 other Notre Dame students as new members of the ACE program, where during the next two summers. she will attend classes on campus to get her masters degree in education. When the fall comes. she will head to Biloxi. Miss .. lo teach high school students. 
Like many college gradu­ates, Ehrnn admitted she doesn't know where she'll be 
in 10 years. 
"There's industry," she said. noting the possibilities for engineers in both environ­mental and pharmaceutical work. Most likely, she conced­ed, 10 years down the road will find her in the process of pursuing her PhD lo teach at the collegiate level. 
Spiritual, people, and grow­ing arc words that came to mind when Ehren described her experience at Notre Dame. The Universitv, she said, is a place for ·great growth as a student and an individual. 
"I love that it's really easy to be spiritual here," she said, noting that above all. she loves the community aspect of' tho University. 
Among her many lessons here, Ehren has learned a great deal about responsibility and civic duty. 
"We 're all teachers and we're all students Ifor our entire lives]." she said. 
-··-··­

Four Years in Review . • •
hiday, May 14, 1999 page 5 




BIGGEST STORIES 
. '. i t·~, -~ ·"' -~:.. ..t:··:~:: ~.. ,,:..,. ._..;.;.::E\,_

"ofthe 1995-99 academic years 
February 8, 1999 

Trustees reject Big Ten membership 
AfLnr a lwatl'd dnbato for.using on Notrt> Danw's idnntily and nthlPtil' programs, thn Board of TruslPPS rnjl'dPcl an ol'l"Pr to join thn Big T!'n athlc'tic ronl'Pl'<'IH'C' and its antdemic afTiliatn, tlrn CornmittPI' for Institutional Cmqwralio11. Malloy dtPd Llw Trustnns l'nar that tlw UnivPrsily would loso its unique! i11stitutio11nl idrnlit.y as tlw ultirnatn rational!' lwliind thl' dPcision. Stacknls had oppos!'d 11wmlH1rship in th<' cn11f'crn11c1: b1!caus1: Llwy Wt!rn roncnrrwd that undorgrarluatn ndu('ation would sul'­fnr undnr llw inllunnrn of" tho CIC, whit·h f'ocusPs on graduatn t'duc:at.ion and rcsparch. 
2 
SMC appoints Eldred president 
~OBSERVER

_____,_____WWW _ 
'A new era' 


'\I 
A/'tnr an c•xhaus­tivt! Yl!Ur-]ong sParch, tlrn 13oard of Trust1•ns ol' Saint Mary's College appointed Marilou 1· lrlred as llw ,ww Colil!gl\ prnsident. 
Tim l'irsl f'nmale laypPrson to hold tlw job, Eldrnd came l'rom a position as academic dean of tlrn Coll11gn of St. Catlrnrinn in St. Paul, Minn. 
Apr. 14, 1997 
.,OBSERVt~ 

'\ll) won't r\"vbu-non-dlMrltnlna.tlr•n l'lnuM· 

-IJ
I ,:;;--:.;.::;~·:;~.­

:,i.....i-·-··· \;1•1thH unu, um ~IIIJW. nor ~IN•?.. 

............,..'.·.. J 

l'rnsid11nt Edward Malloy announced that tlrn University would not rnvise its non-cl iscri m ina lion clause lo inc:lude S(~X­ual orientation. argu­ing that thn courts 
del'ino homosexual 
nriontalion differently than th11 Church does. 
lnstnad, officials olTnrnd a statement nntitl(id tlw "Spirit of Inclusion." which accepts aH peopln into Lhn community. 
Aug.29, 1997 
8 
Students, faculty rally for change 
JJ.I: -:r:;·· _:... ..,..I~OBSERVER.-.. 
_
_....._,......._ 

ti_,~,,,ol,111,f.,/f',1(/H,fl,, '1111,//\ ;,.,, 
,...,.,;'1;t,~::/t~,//,-•,h,::,'.:•~:~~ ':. { '·;,:--., .._; 
Slmlt•nt~, (11n1lly rully , , ,;...-~ / .. ; 
lu ~11pport of r<'\'lAlon  ~· . ;-~~ '• ft' ..  
'  
I  


In the first protosl of its kind, almost 400 Notn• Danrn and Sainl Mary's f'aculty. sl11ff and studnnts gathered to oxprnss tlwir support for tlw addition ol' sexual ori1rnlntio11 to tlw University's non-dis­nimination clausn. 
Many studnnts l'elt tlw change was nec­essary l'ollowing Uw University's January 
199:i refusal to rcc­ognizn (ii.ND/SMC. 
Apr. 25, 1997 
3 
Council sends clause to Malloy 

The Ar.,1dernic Council voled to approve an amend­ment lo add sexual orientation lo the Cnivcrsily's non-dis­crimination clause. Tim amendment was lhen sent on to University president Edward Malloy. 
Malloy prosented the amendment to tlrn Board of Trustees, which rejected it Feb. 5. 
Nov. 18, 1998 



Morn than , 1(15 patrons rPcnivml cita­lions for und11rag11 drinking at BridgPl McGuire's Filling Station wh11n local and statn 11xcisn police raid11d tlw bar. 
Poli en citnd Bridgnl's for viola­
. lions of' statn Iiq uor laws and m,uiagc>­mnnt voluntarily dosnd tlrn nstablish­mnnt. 
Feb.2, 1998 

5,University adopts 'Spirit of Inclusion' 
6 
Eldred denies 
The Alliance 

..................-,,.1 
' F.ldn•«t rl<\nt<'fl Alliance d11h status 
President Marilou Eldrml denied oliicial club status to The Alliance or Lesbian. Bisexual, Straight and Questioning Women ilf Saint Mary's College after six months of delib­eration. 
Eldred claimed that other campus organizations were already meeting the proposed goals of The Alliance. 
Feb. 27, 1998 

7 
Garrick resigns to protest gay policy 
Father David

~OBSERVER Carrick, assistant professor of commu­nicalions and tlrnatrn. rnsignod in protest ol' llw Un iversily's approach lo gay and lnsbian students and l'acully. 
Carrick said that, al'tPr coming out as a cnlibato homosnxual in an April I<J<J6 Int­tor to Tim Observer. Im was suspnndnd from Basilia minislry. 
March 19, 1998 


9 
University combats sweatshop labor 

University ol'licials announced plans to him the indflpendnnt accounting f'irm Pri ccWater ho usc­Coopers to monitor 

conditions in facto­
ries producing Notre Dame apparel. Notre Dame also foundncl a sweat­
shop task force and was an early mem­ber of lhe Fair Labor Association. 

March 3, 1999 

10 Moore wins suit for discrimination 

Formor offonsivc' linn coach .Joe Moorn won $86,000 in clamag1!S l'rom tlw University in a suit. claiming that hPad football coarh Bob 
DaviP disrriminal.Pd 
against hirn 011 the basis ol' aµ;o. 
A court consid­Prnd granting Moorn additional damages but ultimately dedd­od against incrnas­
ing llw award. 
Aug.25,1998 

page 6 The Observer• YEAR IN REVIEW Friday, May 14, 1999 
STUDENTS THROW SQUID. COPS BUST ICONN. TRUSTEES REJECT BIG TEN, CLAUSE CHANGE. 

-

Fires, debates over 
discipline and two big decisions in London highlight '99 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Editor 
Burning couches, /'lying squid and a dC'claration of institutional indepen­dence were among the highlights of' Notre Dame's 1998-99 acadcmir. vear -a year lilied with much debate. little change and a string of minor contro­versies. 
Perhaps the one issue which truly captivalc~d the Nutrn Dame community· was the possibility of t!rn University joining the Big T<'n athletic confcr­Pnc<i. 
Citing the importance of Notre Dame's uniquii institutional identity. tlw Board of Trustlies votf'd on PPb. :i to not enter negotiations on joining the Big Ten and its academic arm, the Committee for Institutional Cooperation (CICI. but the debate lead­ing up to that decision addressed a wide range of issues. 
"The decision was complex," said University president Father Edward Malloy in February. "The decision transcends the many individual fac­tors. aeademic and athletic. The ulti­mate lrationalf) behind the decision! lies in a loss of institutional identity." 
Big Ten membership was widely con­side red to be one of' the University's biggest decisions since its admission of women in 1972, and what began as an athletic issue came to symbolize a much larger debate about Notre Dame's identity. 
When the Faculty Senate voted in December to encourage CIC member­ship, debate on the Big Ten centered on Notre Dame's academic priorities. While CIC membership could have enabled the University to improve its graduate programs. there was concern that undergraduate education would suffer as a result. 
Big Ten membership could have threatened Notre Dame's financial success. some said. However. there were a variety of opinions on the sub­ject. and finances never fully entered the public discussion of the issues. 
Undergraduate students overwhelm­ingly opposed Big Ten membership and showed it. Banners such as one reading "Big Ten, Big Mistake," were hung from dorm windows and the Student Senate unanimously supported a resolution calling on the Trustees to reject conference membership. Among the concerns for many students were the threat to undergraduate education, regionalization of the athletic program and a loss of Notre Dame's indepen­dence. 
Ultimately the decision was made by the Board of Trustees. which followed the Board of Fellows' unanimous vote to not enter negotiations with the Big Ten. 
An inclusive 'Spirit?' 
This academic year saw a continua­tion of Notre Dame's struggle with gay rights issues as the Board of Trustees chose not to add sexual orientation to the University's non-discrimination clause and another faculty member resigned over the issue. 
In the wake of Father David Garrick's resignation in March 1998 and the Faculty Senate's call for the clause amendment that May, the non­discrimination clause was hotly debat­ed for much of the fall semester. A number of campus groups voted to recommend the addition, culminating in the Academic Council's Nov. 17 vote, which sent the matter to the Board of Trustees. 
Talk show pioneer Phil Donahue came to speak at two campus rallies in support of the amendment and 120 students fasted for three days before the Trustees' meeting, hoping to influ­ence the decision. However, a strong recommendation had alre-ady been 

made when the Board of Fellows unanimously voted against the propos­al on Dec. 1. 
The administration kept this recom­mendation silent until the February meeting, where the Trustees "expressed their full support and affir­mation" for the Fellows' decision. In their report the Trustees formally reaffirmed the goals put forth in the Spirit of Inclusion statement. 
Since the decision, campus activists for the clause have been relatively quiet with the exception of the March resignation of Mark Jordan. an openly homosexual professor of medieval studies. Before leaving to take a chaired position at Emory University, Jordan harshly criticized Notre Dame administrators for their reluctance to legally protect homosexuals. 
"This atmosphere allows the University to selectively get rid of whomever they want, or at least threaten them," he said. Jordan's res­ignation came a few months after Carolyn Woo, dean of the College of Business Administration, revealed al an Academic Council meeting that a candidate for a job in the College was rejected for being a practicing homo­sexual. 
April showers don't douse fires 

The Notre Dame Fire Department had a busy April as flames lit the night sky over campus on two occasions. 
An explosion and fire at the Notre Danrn power plant in the oarly morn­ing hours of April 15 injured two bystanders and destroyed six cooling cells that provide campus air condi­tioning. Eleven days later, an unrelat­ed power outage motivated students to take to the quads, where they lit six bonfires across campus. No one was injured in the disturbance, but discipli­nary action was taken against a num­ber of students. 
No cause has been discovered /'or the power plant fire and both of the injured University staffers were released two days after the blaze. Early estimates set the damage at $1.35 million and officials expect that campus-wide air conditioning will not be repaired until the summer of 2000. 
The disturbance during and after the blackout was criticized by administra­tors and student leaders at tlrn Campus Lifo Council meeting that day. Disciplinary action will likely be taken 


Franchise food services came to Lafortune Student Center this year with the addition of Burger King. Students flocke<l to the fast,food establishment with their Flex points, also introduced this year. Starbucks coffee was also sold for the first time in Reckers, the new 24, hour restaurant. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalurn 
ND alum and talk show pioneer Phil Donahue came to campus twice to speak in favor of adding sexual ori~ entation to the University's legal mm,cliscriminarion clause. The rallies and other campus activism culrninat, ed in a three~day hunger strike, but no change to the clause was made. 

------~ ­
___________________::..:..:.;---=----=-::..:...:..:.:...._______::______:_____________________..:.._.::.__
Frid:iy, May 14, t 999 The Observer• YEAR IN REVIEW page 7 
NEW SWEATSHOP POLICY UNVEILED. TWO HURT IN POWER PLANT ARE. STUDENTS SET ARES ON QUADS. 




against i11volvPcl students 1wxt St\llrns­lt•r. 
1 had always lwld out this hope that st11dP11ts at Notre IJanw were cli1Tcre11t, but I was wry disappoint11d," said Bill Kirk, assistant victi prnsidt!lll l'or Ht\Sidl'!H"tl Lifo. 
The Dunbar plot thickens 

J\s tlw school ymtr conrns lo an ti1ul, Notrti DamP prPpares for a hearing lwl'orn tlrn NC/\/\ C:omrniltoo on lnfructions over the gil'ts that form11r football boostnr Kimbt)rly Dunbar gave to a numbm· of former Irish football play1irs. 
The yoar btigan with the announcc­nrnnl that five nwmlwrs of the 1998 squad w1ffe to fw declarnd inoligiblc, and then imnwdiatdy rninslated, for Laking a trip to a Chicago Bulls game paid for by Dunbar. 
Tim tmaring will bd hnld .h1nii' 4, and a decision will lihly Im rnaclrnd by the Commitllw in the 1msuing weeks regard­ing possihle sanclions. Wh iln it initially appeared that the violation would be rulnd secondary in nature, the Infractions commitwn said on April 21 that il may be major. l'unislmrnnts for a 
-


ear 10 

labor.
major violation could include loss of television rnvenues and bowl appear­ances. Committen members gave no indication, however. of which way they would rule or if they would judge that Notre Dame lacked institutional control. 
The University has hirml the law firm of' Bond, Schoenek & King to prepare for the hearing. This firm is experienced in dt1fonding universities at NCAA hearings. 
No sweat for ND 

As universities across the nation dealt with the issue of labor abuse in licensed apparel manufacturing, Notre Dame look the unprecedented step of hiring an inde­pendent monitoring firm to ensure that its licensees comply with tlm University's code of conduct. 
Notre Dame hired the accounting firm PricewaterhousnCoopers in March to , conduct random spot inspections of facto­ries for code violations. The University has also joined with morn than 50 col­legns and universities nationwide in the Fair Labor Association, a White House initiative to ensure safe working condi­tions in the manufacture of clothing sold in Urn U.S. and has entered into several othnr alliances to prnvent sweatshop 
-



ev1ew 
"We continue to seek ways lo strength­en our code by improving accmmtability structures and by joining other universi­ties seeking ways to more effectively oppose inhumane workplace conditions," said Father Malloy said in a written statement. 
Notre Dame has also !'onrn,d a task force to study the issue of sweatshop labor and discuss further adjustments lo the code. Two issues under consideration are payment of a living wage and full dis­closure of factory locations. 
Student activists have criticized the Cnivcrsity on these two issues, and a number of' rallies and teach-ins have been held in the hopes of inlluencing the administration. The task force will likely make a recommendation on these issues next year, according lo its chairman William Hoye. 
Renovating SMC 

A long-term study of' renovations to the Saint Mary's campus conducted by the Performa consulting group neared com­pletion in April when the Board ·of Trusi.ees uf' the College approved the group's proposals for a range of campus 
f"aci ]jtif1S. 
Plans incluc!P revamping the J\ngcda Athletic Facility, t.h1i first floor of' 1.n Mans llall and ihl' NoiJI£• Family Dining I !all. Overall. tlw Trustons rlwsn to focus renovations on improving t\Xisting l'acili­
tins rather than constructing 1ww ones. Thoy also dncidl'd not to build a frnn­standing studont c1~11tf'r. 
Tim Truslcc·s l'ollowcd many ol' t.l11i rnc­ommcndations ol' tho 1:onsulting group, which had held a numlwr of' t·ampus­widc forums to solicit opinio11 on thn suhjnct. 
''Tho Board ol' Trustnos generally approvnd what l'cirforma lrnd J}l"Opostid but they mad!l some\ minor changes," said Collegn president Marilou Eldrnd. 
A messv football season 

Flying squids ;rnd trash hoaps outsidn tho .Joycn Ccmtor marred an othcrwiirn mcmorabln l'oolbal! season as studPnt behavior again drnw criticism a11d con­troversy. 
The traclitional halflimP marshmallow lights turned ugly during sevnra! football games this snason as seniors !'lung a variety of marinn lifo through tlw air, causing injurins and security prohlnms in ·tho stadium. Two 11011-studt\nts wnrn hurt during tlw Baylor ganw, but condi­tions improvnd at the Louisiana Statn ganrn al"ter numerous warnings. Pj<H'.­tions and widesprnad confiscalion or marshmallows and otlrnr projtictilns. 
"This is really out of charactnr l'or Notre Dame," s,iid Chuck llurlny, assis­tant dirnctor of' Notre · Damn Security/Policn. "Fun is l'un, hut whnn fun is getting people hurt, we haVt! to reevaluate our definition ol' 1'1111." 
Another "fun" tradition rnconsidnrnd this year is the annual campout for f'ool­ball tickets. C:ampus security and resi­dence life olTicials expressed disappoinl­ment in student behavior during t!rn three nights of camping out and at the amount of' trash nnd debris students left outside the Joyce Centnr in their wakP. 
"It was disgusting," said Kirk. ".lust llw mess was distressing nnough. It was something that was embarrassing for nw to look at. It was obvious· that a lot ol' alcohol was consumed." 
i\dministrators said tlwy would study differnnt options for next ynar's ticket distribution, but no plans have hmm f"or­mally announced yet. 
Busted ... again 

SUDS (Stop Underage Drinking and Sales) made il<; prnscmcn !'nit around cam­pus this year with its second major bust in 1998. 
The state agency, which citnd 1(,5 minors at Bridget McGuire's Filling Station in .January 1998, issued <J4 "minor in a tavern" citations at The Irish C:onncction on a Thursday night in November. Most of those cited were Notrn Damn or Saint Mary's studcnl'i. 
The University discipli1rnd those involved, who wcmi also lined by t.hn city of South Bend. 


page 8 The Observer. COMMENCEMENT NEWS Friday, May 14, 1999 
Dole, Quinn to address ND, SMC grads 
GOP presidential candidate will speak to ND Class of '99 

By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
Assistant News Editor 

When Elizabeth Dole was chosen in the fall to give the commencement address to the Class of 1999, few political analysts expected her to jump into the 2000 presi­dential race. 
Dole's January deci­sion to step down as president of the Hed Cross placed her name in political circles with other heavyweights in the race like Al Gore, George W. Bush, Jr. and former Notre Dame visiting professor Bill Bradley. 

The buzz surrounding the support Dole's campaign would receive in the 2000 elec­tion. should she decide to run, has Notre Dame students curious and excited to hear her deliver the keynote address at the 154th commencement exercises on Sunday. 
The invitation for Dole to speak was extended in a letter written by University president Father Edward Malloy on behalf of the Board of Trustees and the officers of the University who expressed that Dole's service work with the Red Cross was ideal for the keynote address at graduation. 
Adam Rieck, a senior from Dillon Hall who met Dole two years ago when she spoke at an event sponsored by Student Union Board. described Dole as "a good person. who is down to earth and very easy to talk to." 
"I think it's wonderful to have Mrs. Dole speak," Hieck said. "She is, in my opinion, one of the most talented politicians, and I think she would be an excellent presiden­tial candidate." 

Dole has formed an exploratory commit­tee to assess her chances of competing with some of the other candidates in the 2000 election. 
Her public service credentials are exten­sive and her desire to serve has led to positions in three different presidential administrations. Dole served as American Hed Cross president from 1991 until she stepped down in January. She was Secretary of Labor from 1989-1990 under President George Bush, Secretary of Transportation from 1983-1987 under the Ronald Reagan administration and served as Federal Trade Commissioner l'or President Richard Nixon from 197 4-1979. She was the first woman to serve in many of these positions. 
Some concern arose with the University administration over the idea that Dole's change in political ambition might affect the direction of the graduation speech and turn the event into an opportunity for personal political gain. University policy, however. prohibits politicians giving the keynote address from using the pulpit to make a stump speech. 
According to Dennis Brown, associate director of Public Helatinns and Information, the administration is confi­dent that Dole's speech will not include a political agenda. 
"We have every confidence that the speech will be directed at graduates and not on politics," Brown said. "Keep in mind that this decision was done last fall, and at that point the presidential election was not a consideration." 
Seniors agree that they want Dole's speech to be directed at their futures and not on the upcoming election for presi­dent. 
"I've heard soundbites from her speeches at other schools and some of them have been campaign ·speeches," said St. Edward's Hall senior Sean Leonard. "I want to hear her address us, the graduates, and not her political inten­tions." 
Author, financial 
commentator will talk at Saint Mary's 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saint Mary's News Editor 

Jane Bryant Quinn, a nationally renowned commentator on personal finance, will speak to Saint Mary's graduates at commencement exercis­es on Saturday. 
Quinn, who has written columns for public.ations such as Newsweek, Good Housekeeping and The New York Times, was chosen because she "exem­plifies what we want Saint Mary's women to be," said College president Marilou Eldred. 
"She was chosen for several rea­sons. One, because she is an expert in the field of personal finance, which is largely dominated by men," Eldred said. "Also, her public presence as a financial consultant will be helpful to individuals looking to begin careers." 
Quinn's public experience ranges from books to television. Quinn is the author of the best-sell­ing "Everyone's Money Book" pub-

lished in 1978. She also wrote "A Hole in the Market" and "Making the Most of Your Money." 
She is currently the co-host of the PBS program "Beyond Wall Street." Before PBS, Quinn worked for CBS News, including "CBS Morning News" and "Evening News with Dan !father." Additionally, Quinn hosted her own program, "Take Charge!" and has appeared on "The Ilome Show," "Good Morning America," and "Nightline," lo discuss personal finance. 
"Jane Bryant Quinn is clearly a leader in her field." Eldred said. "We are confident that her address will inspire our audience, parents and stu­dents alike, and that her comments will be useful and pertinent to the Class of 1999 as they prepare to enter the job market or graduate school." 
Quinn was namnd by the World Almanac as one of the 25 most influen­tial women in the United States, and won an Emmy for <~utstanding news coverage. She is a three-time=winner of the National Press Club award for con­sumer journalism. 
"She can offer the importance of wise financial mauagement and speak about developing one's career in the field of financial management or any other field," Eldred said. "She is a role model for Saint Mary's graduates because Saint Mary's women become experts in their field, and we hope that they will contribute to the larger soci­ety." 


. 

DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS 
1999 departmental award winners 

The following Seniors were awarded departn1ental awards for excellence in their studies 


DAVID A. FREDDOSO 
Excellence in Greek Studies 
Excellence in Latin Studies 

Friday, May 14, 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Board of Trustees to consider Performa plans 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Saint Mary's Editor
1 

plans for a new dining hall, book­store, coffee house, mail center 
The Saint Mary's Board of Trustoes will bo prnsentnd
and study area wilt he presented to 
witli the time frame and a the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees 
detailed financial component for tho projects included in
during its June retreat. Under this 
the master plan designed by
plan, Havican Hall would be 
Perf'orrna Consulting at the demolished and the Early 
board's June retreat. l'erJ'orma Consulting prn­
Childhood Develupment Center 
sented a master plan to reno­would be relocated. If approved, the 
vate campus fa<'ilities in order to improve student s11rviccs
project is expected to cost between 
and recreation spaces at a 
-' $65 and $70 million. community meeting, which 
"-,1,r"'"''f.,,,.
r t: ..· 
.r.i.is.:...J.'.~.)." ur·· t. .,.,,.. , 
__ ~~-. .. : ,~-·*· 
As graduation looms on the horizon, thoughts of buying a~09ne@'caf(&j have no doubt formed in your mind. So have worries offinancial security.. · 
But through our College Graduate Purchase Program, Ford can help pull 
your dream car down to reality. College seniors and grad students can 
get $400 cash back"toward the purchase or lease ofany eligible Ford or 
Mercury vehicle. For more information, please call 1·800-32H536 or 
log onto www.ford.com/collegegrad. 
included some changns since it was presnntecl to the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees at the end of April. The plan is the result of information gath­ered by the company during 1998 and 19'J9. 
The cost of' the total master plan will be betwe1m $65 t.o $70 million, said Carolyn Merrow, a Perl'orma senior planner. 
Changes to thn plan inclucfo demolishing Havir.an Ilall and creating a new multi-purposP. facility t:o serve as a conl'Pr­
;/j,,hlri,.• ,, "if'!"~{
·.~...;;. :, ,.}!;..!,.:!:! :i J t,:,x •:-fv1f0<It,\-l•.. 
-f. IA,, --.t._-.I --~":J--.~ 

tr!}./' ." 
PllCI' cnntnr and provid11 gath­
ering spani for larg11 groups. 
"01rn of the things wn triPcl 
to do throughout tlw planning 
was to find a USP l'or llavican 
llall," said MPrrow. "Our 
thinking is it do 11 s n ·t mak <' 
snnsn to knop it bncaus11 it is 
in an odd location in rnlation 
to tho rnst. ol' tho campus 
buildings." 
Thn Early Childhood 
llnvolnpment Center in 
llavican will Im relm:atPcl lo 
anotlwr spaco on campus. 
The proposod mulLi-pmposP facility is onP of the l!last dofined spaces that wants Lo do tho most, said Mnrrow. It will include gathering spacn for 1,200 pooplP, nwnting and break-out spacn for conf'nr­encos, classroom and snminar SJHtco f'or instructional pur­poses and catering and food si,rvicos. 
Tim proposals, approvnd by 
Lhe Board of Trustrn•s at their 
meetings on /\pril 23 and 24, 
incude revamping arnas sud1 
as tlrn first floor or Ln Mans 
llall. Ang1da /\thlntir Facility 
and tho Nobll' Family Dining 
Hall. 
"Tlw board dPcidP<I that tlw 
ovl'rall goal is to rPinvPst in 
nxisting l'ucilitf\S allbougb this 
may includP somP ,ww 1·011­
strurtion,.. Co]]pg1' pr!'sid<:nt 
Marilou lildr!'d said. 
Mo rP poss ib 11\ ram pus improVl'lll!'llts approvPd hy tlw hoard i111'111cil' tlw addition ol' a swimming pool a11cl hnt.tPr r11tTPatio11al facilitiPs to AngPla /\thl1~tic Facility. 
Ilaggar C:ollngP CP!l(Pr will lw r1'novatl'CI to lwusP admin­istrat.ivP olTil'Ps. HPnovalions to thn Nobll' Family Dining Ilall will inc-lud!' tlw addition of spac1\ for campus rntail f' a c iii l i 11 s i11 c Iu d i 11 g a l)[l o k ­storn, t.ravnl agPncy. post o!Tic11 and a gPnPral storP. Study SJHLCP will also hn incluc!Pd. 
Although tlwre had bnnn a push for tlw construrtion or a stuclnnt cl'ntnr. lildrnd said tht' board dociclod that rr11at­ing a singlo building as a stu­dent cnnl!ir wont against its 1ibjnctives. 
"Tlu1r1\ are two rnasons tlw masoning shiftl'd rngarcling building a 1111w studPnl r.Pn­t!~r." said EldrPd. "First, w1• talk1'd about thP 1111Pd to nnhanw a Sl'IISn ol' community throughout tl!I' campus. Tlw point ol' this is trying to build community on campus and you don ·t havn to havn just 01111 plaw to go do that. 
"Tho sncond r1mson is tlrnrn is a grPat 1wl'd for largi\ and small gathnring spac:P all ovnr cam pus . Th at is why w 11 would dispers1• tlHi spaefi t h roII g ho ul r a mp us ra tIm r than putting all tho mP11ting spac<1 in 01w building," shn said. "This ckcision d1ws not diminish llw studnnt center kind of spat:P. Hather it nnhanc:ns studnnt space hy having it throughout campus." 
The plan also includns crn­ating apartnwnt-stylP housing which would lw built in phas­11s to accomm<Hlatl' inc.rnascd nnrollnwnt. 
Otlrnr changns includn rnno­\'ations to dassrooms and fac­ulty offices in MadP]nva llall. Sciencu Ilall and MorPau Center for Urn i\rts, updating rosidnnce hall rooms in Ln Mans llall, HPgina llall and Holy Cross Ilall, c1intralizing shipping and rncnivlng and improving lighting, signs and parking campus-widn. 
The plans also calls l'or pro­viding morn grn1:n spacn for 

outdoor activilins and chan­

'To be eligible for $400 c8llh b<mus, ytiij~' .. 's or ti.. eummtly.·.· .,
.. enrolled. ln graduate school.. You mullf porchll&e or lease and take delivery of Yo!ii'MW 1~P!Y-See yi)Ur dealel' for.detrlffa. neling trafnc to tlrn perimeter -C&ltafn l8Strictions IIP{,lly. of campus.
:-~ 

-----~-~-----------------------------.,­
page 10 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 14, 1999 
<YH8Hil0 fe~ave Studerit Mfcii:is, head litW School 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY said Michael Hickey, a third-year Associate News Edicar law student and assistant rector in 
For the past nine years, Patricia O'Hara has been both a professor at Notre Dame Law School and the University vice president for Student Affairs. As such, she has overseen departments running the gamut from Campus Ministry to University Health Services. But effectivt! July 1, O'Hara will 
Dame and that I would be able to work with thr, directors of the 
11 dcpartmenb within Student Affairs to sustain their momen­tum or providing high quality services to the Notre Dame stu­dent body," O'l!ara said or the goals she held when she was named a University vice president. 
Rectors who have worked under O'llara's leadership praised her. 
"Profossor O'Hara has been a won­derful boss and companion. She cares passionately abDut the student body and has given her all to that for the nine years she's been in that position," said Sister Mary Ann Mueninghoff, rector of Pasquerilla East and a current member of the Campus Life Council (CLC). "I find her fair, articulate and com­
passionate." 
Morrissey Hall rector Father William Seetch highlighted O'Iiara's thoroughness as one of her best qualities. 
"Most people look at a problem from one or two angles. She looks at it from probably six or seven," he said. "She has a broad-ranging intellect and approach to situations. There's no half-cooked answers from Professor O'Hara." 
Throughout her tenure, O'Hara has seen the number of female stu­dents enrolled at the University increase steadily. This necessitated the conversion of Pangborn and Cavanaugh Halls into female resi­dences and the construction of the !'our new West Quad dorms. 
O'Hara also believes that moving Grace and Planner residents to smaller residence halls was a benefi­cial change in that it created smaller residential communities. 
"[These changes] helped us recap­ture some intermediate-sized resi­dence halls that have proved excel­lent facilities for creating communi­ty," she said. 
O'Hara is able to interact indirectly with residence life through her rela­tionships with law students who also serve as assistant rectors. 
"She's brought a lot to the table. She really puts herself into the job," Siegfried Hall. "She's been able to use us effectively and empower us." 
O'Hara said another major change in the Notre Dame community dur­ing her tenure has been the increased number of minority stu­dents. 
move on to become the Joseph 

'SHE HAS A BROAD­
A. Matson Dean of thP. Notre 
RANGING INTELLECT
Dame Law school when current dean David Link retires. AND APPROACH TO SITUA· "1 hoped that I would be able 
TIONS. THERE'S NO HALF· 
to work with the rectors and hall 
staff to sustain the strong tradi­COOKED ANSWERS FROM 
tion of residcntiality at Notre 
PROFESSOR O'HARA.' 
FAmrn WILLIAM Snncu 
M
RHCTOR, • ORRISSEY 
"When father Mallov first took office as president in 1987 -under­reµresented students comprised only 7 percent of thf' undergraduat(1> stu­dent body. [Malloy] hoped to increase that tu 15 percent within his first five years as president. In fact, we reached that goal in the first three years of his presidency and have been trying to increase the per­centage ever since." 
Director of Multicultural Student Affairs Iris Outlaw said O'Hara has 
"She's one of my close per­

Former CLC member and 
sonal friends. I think the
'WE'LL SORELY MISS 
world of her," he said. "She
HER.' 

brought a powerful intellect and her own dedicated !ms OUTLAW Catholic faith to the position. The phenomenal job she did
DIRECTOR OF MULTfCULTURAL 

has born incredible fruit in 
STUDENT AFF!ARS 

Student Affairs." 
been an asset throughout her term. 
"[Working with Professor O'Hara has} been a very good experience for me," she said, noting that she took on her position the year after O'Hara took over Student Affairs. "Under her tutelage, the department has really grown with regard to what it does for students of color." 
Outlaw said that Multicultural Affairs has received much financial support and latitude in the types of programming under O'Hara's lead­ership. 
"[ think we'll sorely miss her," she said. "She was a good ally for our department." 
O'Hara expressed enthusiasm about her new position as dean of the law school and hopes that she will be able to make the school even better. 
'Tm excited about the challenges. I'm excited about the challenge of trying to lead the law school to the next level of excellence and at the same time I'm humbled by the appointment," she said. 
She recognizes that following the longest-serving law school dean in the United States will be no easy task. 
"Dean [Davidl Link loaves big shoes to fill," she said. "The law school is rurrentlv ranked 21st i.n 
H
AH 
U.S. New·s and World Reports and much of its advance in its ranking is attributable' to the efforts of Dean Link." 
Current law students who have taken O' Hara's classes believe that she will be an excellent dean. 
"Evervono in the law school ·1oves her," said Karen DuBay a third-year law student. 'Tm really 
excited. I think she's going to be a great dean."
d

O'llara expresse support for her successor, rather 
Mark Poorman, who currcrntly servos as an executive assistant to the University presid1rnt. 
"I think Fatber Poorman is a wonderful choice for this position," she said. "He's well known to undergraduates and enjoys a strong base of popular support among students. I think all of this will contribute to his ability to build bridges with students." 
Poorman expressed a similar admiration for O'Hara and hopes to 
be able to live up to her per­
formance in the position. 
"I look forward to the priv­

ilege and the challenge of 
serving in the position,'' he added. "She has set a very high standard." 
O'Hara. said that the most chal­lenging parts of her job were not those that students would expect, yet it was interaction with the Notre Dame community that she found most fulfilling. 
"On far more occasions than I will ever be able to count, I have seen our students demonstrate over and over again their intelligence, their deep commitment to faith, and the obligation they feel to share their gifts with those in need, and my most enduring memory of my time in Student Affairs will be the good­ness of our students," she said. 
O'Hara graduated summa cum laude and first in her class from Notre Dame Law School in 1974. She was elected vice president for Student Affairs by the University's Board of Trustees in June 1990 and was the first woman to serve as an officer of Notre Dame. 
I have seen our students defuori~ again their intelligence, their deep and the obligation they feel to s),~rt:, in need, and my most enduring in Student Affairs will be students." 
Timeline and maJ -in Student Affairs dur 
*Joins Notre Dame 'tiaw S professor. 

'Named vice president f the first female offic~r o University. 

*Students United ForResp the Office of Student Aff greater diversity-awaren 
*Gays and Lesbians at N Saint Mary's {GLND/SMC) club status. 
96 
D/SMC denied clu ara recommends f ive rsity-sponsore osexual students. 
96 

*Standing Committee for Gay and Student Needs forms. 
*Named dean-of Notre 
ND joins another sweatshop monitoring coalition 
ByTlM LOGAN 
News Editor 
Notre Dame has joined forces with Harvard University, the University of Michigan and the California University system in a new effort to monitor licensed apparel manufacturers. 
The universities will hire an inhirnational accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers, to r,onduct and report on inspec­tions of licensed factories. Notre Dame has been working with the firm since March, but this new initialive will allow the University to join with others and pool its resources, adminis­trators say. 
"This is one more thing we're doing to Lry to do to eradicate sweatshop labor in the manu­facturing of Notre Dame appar­fll," said William Hoye, associ­ate vice president and counsel and chair of thA University's sweatshop task force. 
Under the new program, the universities can pay PricewaterhouseCoopers Lo visit more factories, according tu Hoye, because of the increased financial resources and because one inspection can provide multiple schools with information. 
\ifonitoring under this system will begin sooner than under the Fair Labor Association (FLA), a White llousc-backed organization to track wages and labor conditions at facto­ries that manufacture garments sold in the U.S. Monitoring by PricewaterhouseCoopers will likely begin in the next few months, while members of the FLA advisory council do not expect their group to be fully staffed until early next year. 
Notre Darrrn was a founding member of the FLA, which has grown rapidly to indnde more than 60 American colleges and universities. But the group has been criticized bv labor unions and student gro~ps because it does not require public disclo­sure of apparel factory loca­tions or guarantee that workers receive a "Jiving wage." 
These are two issues which Notre Dame's sweatshop task force will continue to study over the summer and which 
they may recommend adding to the University's Code of Licensing Conduct next year, Hoye said. Notre Dame's sweat­shop task l'orce inclurles facul­ty, administrators, two student members and rnpresentatives of adidas and Champion. 
Several members of the task force may travel this summer to apparel factories in Central America where Notre Dame merchandise is made to study working conditions tlrnre, Hoye said. That is dependent, howev­er, on finances and timing. 
The University will remain a member of the FLA and of tho American Apparel Manufacturing Association, a group which certifies qualified factories as "no-sweat work­places." It is not unlikely that Notre Dame will look for mon1 anti-sweatshop agreements. 
"We're trying to pursue all the credible options," lloye said. "If we think that lone I will add something new that we're not already doing, we'll think about t.hat." 
The University is also cooper­ating with the Follett Corporation, which manages tho 11 am mes Notre Danrn Bookstore, to help pay PricewaterhouseCoopers to carry out further inspect.ions. Many of the same factories that manufacture licensed Notre Dame apparnl also do so for Follett, according to !Joye, and th us collaboration is mutually beneficial. 

--------·------------------------------,--~ 
friday, May 14, 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 11 
Four men will answer call to seminary life 
By LAURA PETELLE Al.,i,rnm Managing EJiw1 
While most graduates nm preparing for jobs or postpon­ing tlrn rnal world for a fow morn ynars in nwdirnl, Jaw or grad school. l'our Notrn Damn nwn ar!' pursuing a dilTPrtint post-grndual11 avenue: the sem­inary. 
.Joff Dubn, Nate Wills, Chuck Witschorik and Michael Wurtz will entnr the lloly Cross novi­tiatti on August 10. The four men currontly livo in Mot·cmu S(\lninary, as members of Notre Dame':; cullege seminary pro­g1·a m. They will spnnd next y(!al', their novitiate yoar, in Colorado. After thnt, the men will purs.t:lt; mustier of divinity degrees here at Notre Dame. 
"Being a public minister in the Church really nxcitl•s me," sai{J Will,;. "I think I bav,i ,;onrn gifts and talenl-. to share, and I rPally feel like a life of service :md oilnbrnting thn sacramenl<; is somt'thing I feel called to." 
"It's kind of hard to explain to ptwpln (why I'm in thH semi­nary!,'' Duba said. "It has to do with a sense of vocation or a mil from God. To tell you the truth, I've realized Lhat what I want to do with my lifo is ba.-;i­rnlly introduce people to Christ. . .. The priesthood is probably tho way I can best do this, but if I don't become a priest, I'll still [bring peoplfl to Christ]." 
Th<1 four mon, if they choose to complete the seminary train­ing. will beeome Holy Cross priesL'l in about four years. 
"What really attracts me to the Holy Cross fathers, is just 
thut the kiild of poople in thn order are fabulous men, mally inspiring," Duba said. ''These guys are incredibly well-round­ecl, and normal guys.'' 
Because Notrn DanH1 is a Ca ~holic school with students who arc active in liturgy and service and serious about their f'ailh, the men found tho com­munity to bo extremely sup­portive of them their vocations . 
"Nolre Dame is just a vibrant faith community," said Duba. "It's a community that's open to and actively encourages the idea of n~ligious life. I've newr come across anybody hem who has a prnblem with it. I've had nothing hut encouragement from tho community here." 
, .,':Jn general, [people at Notre Dume] have been wondorfully supportive," Wills said. "Coming here my freshman year. I expected people to cringn or giv•~ mo a strang,~ look when I said I was i.n a col­lege seminary program, thiuk• ing about religious life and priosthood, but I've just got so many great suppo1·ters. It's allowed nm to entl'lr into con• vorsations that I otherwise wouldn't have been able to." 
In fact, Wills said, people talking to him about their faith is one of his favorite things about ministry. 
"They've let me into their lives in such a wonderful way. It's an aspect of their life that they don't normally let people into, and that's a wonderful thing. That's been just a groat opportunity and has really con­
firmed in rno a call to ministry," 
Wills said. 
Brother Scully to leave Keenan Hall 
to snrving al Llw Ihsmas llous11, a South Bond halfway housn. whnrc he has cooked dinner nvery Monday night l'or tlrn past 14 ynars. 
"It's rumornd that lw's cookt>d a di1Tcrc11f nwal <Wr•ry 11ight.," said rising K11<•1rnn sophomon• Malt Klosnr. "Brotlwr is so flnxi­bl1•. and wlwn Im lwars about a need, lw nwnts it. like our 24­hour clotlws drivn !'or l lurricarm Mitch and lnclian r•iscrvations. !In knows of' so many rinPds out thrn·P." 
Thn kitclrn11 al 
Dismas llousn was 

By COLLEEN GAUGHEN 
News Writer 
llis prosnn1:n and his storins will ht! missPd thn most. hut the legacy of' Keenan llall rector Brnthnr Bonaventurn Sr.ully's service and ministry will live on al'ler lw movPs to Ballimorn to work wilh llw Xaverian Brollrnrs. 
Scully is st1ipping clown afuw l4 y('ars or SPrvice to tile men's dorm. Formerly an educator in Memphis. TPnn .. Denver and Baltimore, Seully 1:amc to Notre Dame in 1985 
Ministry and community have been the focus ol' 1wery ewnt in Keenan. according to Scully. From the Grnat Pumpkin Carving in (ktnber to th<• Kc!tm1rn lfovue in January lo Divcr:,il.y in l lurnan nights Wnek in March. Kmrnan has been a consistentlv active dorm promoting scrvlcn and ministry throughout the y~mr. 
"Promoting puople to service is what I think is important," said Scully. "I see some 1wecls and I push students to 11wot thorn. People say. 'Oh there's nothing to 
and bPgan tPaching a menu Ily dPdil:atnd to l'rnshman seminar. The Brother Scully.
'ABIG PART OF KEENAN TRADITION IS 
Class of 191) 1) is the last group ol' l'rnshmen he 
taught. 
"Brother is an incredibly smart man," Haid rising Keenan SPnior Billy Marshall. "No mattci1: what sub­jnct is brought up. lw has some­thing to say about it; and it's not just an opinion, but an infornrnd opinion." 
Scully is a brother in the Bnlgian-basecl Xaverian order which emphasizes missions but has receutly made advancenrnnts in education and prison ministry. Scully also co-rounded the Notre Dame Encounter tNDEJ program in Campus Ministry with Sister Jn Giarrantc, then rector of l'asqucrilla West. 
"We took a team down them to experir1nce that 10 years ago." said Scully. "The diocese of Hichmond sponsors a retreat for college students throughout the state or Virginia. They come together five or six times a year, and we took 10 people from Notre Dame to experience it. They became the lirst NDE par­ticipant'>." 
"Evnn though I g11tLEAVING WITH BROTHER.' 

tired now at night, I'll 
miss staying u11 and N talking with thn kids,"

BILI.Y 1ARSJ/IIU. he said. KEENAN SEN/Oil Scully has eanrnd 
do here,' hut I don't know if that's fully true. You can cniate your own things to do, and that is 
the  notion  uf the  [Keenan!  
Underground."  
While  the  Keeuan  

Underground providtis weeknnd social events l'rom quiz bowls to swing dances, the Diversity in Human Hights Week offors an opportunity for students tu learn about diversity through knowing themselves. 
"We try to get one anolher to participate in a program where we would deepen our under­standing and acceptance of other people," he said. "We all say we're not bias or prejudice, but in the end we are. And we have to see what we are. This week is for trying to provide opportuni­ties to do that. and it's very dilli­cult." 
Scully has also been dedicated 
students' rnspnrt and admiration, according lo snvrm1l residents. 
''.llis door is always op1in," said Klos1ir. "llo 1wver stops work­ing." 
Scully does not see leaving as 
an nnd but as a bnginning. 
''I'm not rntiring, I'm moving on," said Scully. "Thnre an1 sonrn other idoas we're working on, such a.,; establishing our rnligious community for voluntners in Baltimore. We're working 011 Basic Christian Communiti1is, a youth ministry concept from South America that has laknn root in this country." 
Aftnr working in Baltimore, the future could take him anywlmrn, he said. It is not yet dnciclncl who will be Kmman's next rnclor. 
"It's going to he internsting to see what goes on in tlrn dorm next year," said Marshall. "A big part of Knenan tradition is leav­ing with Brother." 


CONGRATULATIONS 
LONDON PROGRAM STUDENTS 
in the 
Class of '99 
page 12 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 14, I999 
lL 1LlJ JMI ll1 ll 
~ HID)/SWC 
Congratulates 

all the lesbian, gay, bi and transgender graduates of 1999, and their graduating friends and supporters:.. 
& Welcomes 
you, your family and friends into our strong and .growing aluinni organization. 
GALA-ND/SMC (Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College) is an educational non-profit membership organization with over 750 members representing aluntni, faculty, staff and fatnilies of the University and College. 
Our user-friendly organization has no official affiliation with-and receives no financial support from-the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College. Our strength and support comes from our membership and our numbers. 
Toreceiveyourwelcomingfirst-year tnetnbership packet 
and for more information about our organization visit our 
web site at: http://galands111c.org/ e-mail us at: galandsmc@aol.com . or write us at: GALA-ND/SMC 

2217 W. Eastwood Avenue 
Chicago IL 60625 
Fri<lay, May 14, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 13 
Feigl to reciive President's Medal 
Spcci.d to The Observer 
llorolhy Fr\igl, outgoing vice prcsid1111t l'or academic affairs and dr\an of faculty at Saint Mary's, will hn prnsi•ntNI with thP Prnsiclent's Medal in rr~c(lgnition of outstanding community snrvicl' and co11tri­hulio11 to tlw lifo of tlw CollPgn al till' Saint Mary's ,·om­llH)fl«:,~mcnt l'.()i'('fllOlly. 
l>111"i11g l•1\igl's :n ynars wilh thn Col!Pgl', slH• s1\rvml first as a clwmislry profossor and in lwr n1rn,11t position l'or tlw past 14 years. Slw has over­s111m th,~ work 111' 19 acadnmit: 11,•partmnnls, as wnll as thP Cusllwa-1.nighton Library. the Cr• 11 I,, r for Acad 11 mi c lnnDvation, t.ho FrPshman 0fl'icc. the Hegistrar's Office, the Office of Information Tech nolog-y and tlrn l'ornign 
'SHEIS A DELIGHT TO 
WORK WITH, ALWAYS 
STR.\IGHTFORWARD AND 
DIRECT.' 
TEURSA MAI/CY 
ASSIST1INT TO THI.i 
VICE f'IIE\WHNf 

sllldy programs. l;nigl has also sncured millions of dollars for Pxtnrnal funding lo su11port new and nxisling academic 
programs. Fei!a{l's colleagues had high praisfl for her. "She is a dclighl to work with, always straightforward 
and  direct,"  said  Teresa  
Marcy, assistant to  the vice  
president.  

Feig! will spend next year on sabbatical before returning to tea('hing in the ch!\m istry and physics departments. 
"She's passionate about the kind of education studnnts receive," said Linda Timm, vice presidflnt of Student Affairs\. "She's very dedicated to this institution. I look for­,vard to seoing hur in a lab coat and goggles." 
Sarah Magness contrilwted to this article. 

d.:ongratufations to· tfje Department of Financlanq,:;;; Business Economic·s 

1999 <!3rat>uates 
.'!I 
-1 ""
I 
\ 
. '. -~:· 
. ·-1 
··-1 

GET IN THE 
THICK 
OF IT. 


Conveniently 101::ncd in rhe heart of 
downtown Sourh Bend. Old Chicago 
8rcakho11se has the ho1rcsr i;ri!I in cown. 
Wednesdays 

All-You-Can-Eat Crab Legs $15.95 
222 S. f\IIClll(;I\N•SOIJTII BFNfl"(2J9) 2H-S21l0 


Class of 1999 
Only 1 
Thursday 
at 

, ~ · 1 
, . 

to hang out with 1,500 of your Closest Friends 
99¢ Cover
.. 
a-.. 
with college I. D. musl be 21 

2 2 2 S. Michigan 
South Bend • (219) 234-5200 (all the Heartland Concert &Event Line (219) 251-2568 
www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 
Rioters to appear in fall Residence Life hearings 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Ediror 

Approximately 12 students will have hearings with the Office of Residence Life for their involvement in the dis­turbances that took place dur­ing and al'tHr the power outage early April 26, according to Jeffrey Shoup, dirr.ctor of Residence Life. 
Students will be discipli1rnd for obstructing police and fire officials, adding fuel to bon­fires and disrespecting securi­ty personnel. Heports have been filed with Residence Life, Shoup said, but most hearings will not be held until next semester. Disciplinary action will be decided after the hear­ings are held. 
ll is policy of the office of Residence Life not to hold dis­ciplinary hoarings during final exams, and the reports were not completely filed or reviewed before classes ended. Anv involved students who will bo ·on campus in the summer or who live in llw area may be 
cal!f'd  in  to  Hesidencc  Life,  
Shoup said.  
Administrators  will  not  

rnlease the names of' students involved or discuss individual cases, but they have repeated­ly emphasizml that the behav­
ior of' som11 stud1ints that night was unaccPptabln. 
"I hope our students recog­nize how inappropriate it was," said Bill Kirk, assistant vice presidnnt for Hesirlcncn Life. "Th1\rc's just nothing attractive about this lrnhavior." 
Shoup expressed hope that lhc disciplinary procnss will remind students of' what tlwir 
responsibilitins  are  to  the  
UnivBrsity community.  
"I  think you could say  our  

process is a way to nducatc people of our standards," Shoup said. "This is a way to rn-educatc people about what is appropriatn and what is inappropriate." 
During and af't,ir an approxi­mately 40 minutP pow11r out­age at 1 a.m. on Monday, April 26, large groups of stud,ints left darkened buildings and 11ooded the quads. Six bonfires were lit in various locations across campus, which lirn offi­cials put out lwforc any signif'i­cant damagn was done. 
Some studnnts harasser! fire and security officials who w1\re aU.ernpLing to rlowrn tlrn blaws, and a few attcmptnd to physi­caI l y obstruct tlwir nf'forts. Those identiffod in llH\ distur­bances will havn a IHiaring with the ofTicn of' ltnsidn11c1i I.if'B. 

Please Recycle, 
o~L-1 Mo~•t.A­-ttAD MoiL~ Fu~ 
~ A+J l~(UJ. 

Join the TapOnline Campus Production Team to write, build and design your campus web site. 
(Short of the White House, where else can working as an intern be so much fun?) 
Fall internships available. 
Checl< us out at: 
www.TapOnline.com/lnterns 
For the students. By the students. 

Question<: lnterns@TapOnline.com 
ND & SMC 



page 14 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 14, 1999 
'Ifie Jl.{{iance for Catfwfic 'Education _ 
iuefcomes_ iuitligreatJo!! ant£gratitutf~ 1 t:u· jo[[ow1ng 9\(ptre r.Da111c and L~L Afa,y .s graduates to their neiu c[assroo111s _in tfte Catfwfic Scftoofs of the South: 
Celia Antonini Bishop Byrne Memphis TN 6-9 Math Katie Dennett lloly Rosary Shreveport LA 2nd Christopher Beza St. John Ben:hmans C,1thedrnl Shreveport LA MS M,1th/S1.:icni.:c Ryan Blaney Nativity Charleston SC 7-8 Social Studies Jerfery Boetticher Loyola College Prep Shreveport LA Computer Scieni.:e ChrisIi ne Bos I Resurrec110n Biloxi MS 7/8 Spanish/Religion Andrea Bueno All Saints ·Kansas City KS 3rd 
Anthony Castelli no St. Vincent Je Paul Nashville TN 5-8 Math Chad Chris.topherscn SI. Joseph Jackson MS Math GinaCouri OurLaJyofLourdcs Mohile AL 3nJ Grndc 
Clare Deckelman St. JuJe HS Montgomery (Mobile) AL Theology/Spanish Marciu DI:! Rios St. Joseph Academy Brownsville TX 7-9 History/Social Studies AntonioDeSapio St. Paul Memphis TN Elem. (2-6) Brian Dillon Hishop Sullivan Baton Rouge LA Math/Science Jennifer Ehren St. John Biloxi MS Science Kelly .Fitzpatrick Holy Name Kansas City KS 3/4 or 5/6 Jessica Fries St. Michael's Memphis TN MS Math/Science Matthew Johnson Assumption Charlolle NC 5th S11rah Karr SacreJ I kart St. Petersburg FL 3rd Seisha Keith St. Jude Elementary Momgomery (Mohile) AL 5th Kevin Kiefer Bbhop McGu11Jcss Oklahoma City OK Theology Jonathan Lang Bishl)p Ward Kansas City KS Math Mark Leen Hishop England 
Charleston SC Economic~ & Social Studies Marisa Limon St. Anthony Brownsville TX 4th Mark Low Holy Family I-IS Birmingham AL Science Robert Ludwikoski St. Cecilia Dallas TX MS English/Religion Veronica Maldonado Our LaJy of Perpetual Help Dallas TX 2nd Elizabeth McAdams St. Anne'!> Nashville TN 6th LA/5-8 Math John McMahon St. h:tcrshurg Catholic St. Pctersbtlfg FL llistory Marshawna Moore Most Pure Hean of Mary Mobile AL 2nd Brian Morten St. Anthony Brownsville TX 5-6 Math/Science Mary-Colleen Murphy Bishop Sullivan Baton Rouge LA Religion Kathleen Naughton St. Charles Horromco Oklahoma City OK 5th or 6th science 7/8 social Gina Navoa SI. Petersburg Catholic St. Petersburg FL Science (9th) Jeffrey Ni ch o Is St. John Biloxi MS English/Drama Joseph Olegario Our Lady of Lourdes Mohile AL MS Math/Scicm:c Katherine Pytla k Charlotte Catholic f'harloltc NC Religion Wesley Richardson lrn;arnate WorJ Brownsville TX MS Math/Sciern.:e Lisa Rodriguez Bishop EnglanJ Charleston SC Spanish Rosalinda Rosales St. Cecilia Dallas TX 5th 
Maureen Ryan St. Joseph Jackson MS Spanish Patricia Sevilla Holy Rosary Jacksonville (St. Augustine) FL MS Social Studies/Religion Malin.Stearns Charlcsrou Catholic Charleston SC 5-8 LA/Religion Brendon Sullivan lloly Trinity Charlo!le NC 
MS Kelli Swinarski SL Mary's Jackson MS Elem. 
Christopher Thomas Hishup Kenny Jacksonville (St. Augustine) FL Chemistry Joanne Wagner Transfiguration St. Petersburg FL 7th Science l\tary Westervelt St. Thoma~ More Atlantil GA 4th 

FriJay, May I 4, 1999 
The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 15 
Regina couch fire causes dormwide evacuation 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE S.1i111 Mary's News Editor 
;\ small lire c·aused llrn PVa1:­11alion of' lll'gina Ilall Saturday night as Saint Mary's Security anfl tlw NotrP Dame Firn l>Ppartnwnt (Nl>Fl>l workl•d to 
control the blaze. 
;\ couch in thc south loungn was ignited at approximately 
7:08 p.m., and tho rim was controllnd by Sccurity within minutes. ol'ficials said. 
NDFD and thn South Bend Firn Dnpartmcnt (SBFD) 
arrivnd on the scene at 7:13 p.m., extinguished the smol­dering couch and removed smoke from the building. Students rcturned to their rooms at approximately CJ p.m. 
Tim cause of the fire is still unknown. 
Hegina Hall director Melinda Brown said she noticed smoke coming from the lounge. She removed a couch cushion and realizod the couch was on firn. 
"'The probable cause ol' the firn is a cigarottc," said Marty Orlowski, NDFD crew chief. 
"Saint Mary's did not ask ror u fire invt-1stigation, so the cause will bo documented as 
'suspicious.'"

SCJ1E(.;cFR:_-JcE<]J S(ECfXLJ_O~! 
Saint Mary's Security chose not to investigate the fire
<~mbfer·s -4[{! 
because it was probably ar.ci­den tal. said Patti Valentino,
Yourfi-ie11dsfro111 the (Haff tvisn r,ou the ivarmest co119ratufations 
director of Media and Community Relations.
and the best of{uck in arr r,our endeavours. 
"The fire department had said that the cause was most
[JTun·e ,vi{{ af,var.s he a home for fOU on the CJ'Vgrth Side. 
likely accidental d uc to an ash 
Jared Birnbaum
"·ffioma; Buller 
Charles Cast Iine 
William Clancy 

William Connolly Brian Dean 
Gregory Duren 
Phi I Erskine 
Sal Gilene 

Benny Guilbeaux 
Peter Kelly 
Stephan Koeth 
Kevin Kopka 
Adam Krupa 

or a cigarette, and Security felt that no additional in vesti­ga ti on was nt-1cessary," 
Valentine said. The fire could have been a 
Dan Lopez 

serious danger because cer­tain toxic materials an~ 
Sean McCaffrey 
Christopher McGowan 
rclnasccl when couches burn. 
explained Al Kirsits, SBFD bat­
talion chief. 
"Because of tho matnrial in 
couches, a simple couch l'ire is 
dil'fnrcnt." he said. 
"Couches can gcncratn toxic smoke, and the f1wl for tho lire causns incrnased tmnpora­tures in buildings. Esp11<·ially in old couches. if' even a small hole is b11rn1id, it can smolder. Whc)n you think you'vp got H out, it re-ignites." 
Saint Mary's prohibits ran­dies and strings of' lights in dorm rooms; lrnwcvnr, smok­ing in slllec:Lnd loungPs, like tlrn south loung1\, is allowed. 
"This is orrn of' the masons that there is no smoking in dorm buildings at Nolrn Dame," Orlowski said. "Our primary concern is studnnt safety. There am no candles allowed and no smoking allowed to practice fire pre­vention," 
James Miles 
¦ SECURITY BEAT 

Tim Monahan 
Police arrest 01an
Alex Mueller Dave Pagliarini 
for vandalislll 
Nicholas Petitte John Rogers Steve Titus Kevin Torres Jason Villanueva John Wagner David Yu 
By COLLEEN GAUGHEN 
News Writer 

The Notre Dame Securily/Police arrested Michigan resident Jose Banda on May 6 for theft after receiv­ing reports that several auto­mobiles had been broken into in the C-1, D-2 and D-6 park­ing lots during the past l'ew weeks. 
The most recent of the break•ins occurred earlv 
Senior Huss Chiapetta's car 
was keyed, but nothing was 
stolen. 
"!The thief) had a device thal knocks out thn lock on the car door," said Ch!apl1lta. "[Gilligan and Baggenstos} were on their way to storagH and each lost about $1,200 worth of stuff," ChiaptJtta said. Battle lost his stereo. 
Hakow said Urn break-ins an, not necessarily dun to stu­dents moving out, but thnt the probability of lhnft increases whenever there is a large gathering of cars. 
"There hasn't really been much thel't this ynar:" said Rakow. "It's just been these last three weeks." 
According to Rakow, them havo not boen any more reported break-ins since the arrest of Banda, but he still cautions everyone to bn nwarn of what is going on and to report any suspicious activity. 
''It's also hr~lpf'ul to clrnck your car everyday," Rakow said. "If you see anything sus­picious or out of' placA, call in and we'll chock it out." 

:;Jfwnksfo1· arr rou'vc done, and 11Wt tout•futurc patfis 6c P""ed with 9ofrf. cJhc yl(en ofSie9Jried CHarr 

Thursday morning between 2 
a.m. and 7 a.m., when stereo equipment and compact discs were stolen from a locked car in the D-6 parking lot. 
"He's a known thief and bur­glar," said director of security police Rex Rakow. Banda was also found in possession of marijuana and other stolen material and is now in jail, according to Rakow. The 
. department is investigating the situation further. 
Students whoso cars alleged­ly were broken into included rising junior Pat Gilligan and rising sophomores Peter Baggenstos and Arnaz Battle. 

Gtttlng a year's worth of stuff Into a car is like trying to 
RVDER 
rram 10 pounds Into a S-pound sack. You've crammed 
nrs 
enough for a while. Give yourself a break. 
Call Ryder and truck It -at the right price. 
www.yellowtruck.com 
Advanced reservation required. Present this coupon at the time of your rental. 
,

r 
Coupon only applicable to basic rate of truck rental. which does not Include taxrs, fuel and optional Items. One coupon per rental. Coupon subject to truckI avatlablllly and Ryder Moving Services standanl rental requirements. Coupon expires December 31. 2000. 
I 
$10:I 
I . Coupon not valid with any other offer, discount or promotion. 
Discount Off I One-Way Local
I 
Moves 1-800-GO-RYDER Moves II 
Ryder• Is a registered trademark ofRyder System, Inc. and Is used under license. 
I INote to Dealer: I. Enter discount on rates screen. 2. Enter Coupon 1.D. on payment screen. NC030 
L 
3. Attach to rental agreement and send In with weekly report. RA Number______ 
.J 

page 16 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 14, 1999 
''Maybe you'llmarry, Maybe you wo,~ 't:, Maybe you'll have children, Ma_)lbe you won't., Maybe you'lldivorce at40, Ma}1be you'lldan.ce the~funky chicken onyour 75th weddingannivers'ary...'' 
-MarySchmich 
No matter whatyourfuture may holdforyou after you graduate... We willalways be thereforyou. 
Internet Banking Telephone Banking Credit Cards Auto Loans First Mortgages 24-Hour 
Loan-By-Phone 
CDs 

(219) 239-6611 • (800) 522-6611 • ,vww.ndfcu.org 
Iudependent of the University 
--~~---------------------­
-• I 

hi<lay, May 14. 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 17 
Many graduates focus on service, spirituality 
Uy CHRISTINE KRALY will spend lho next year helping of' Americorps in Norlhern 
A~shram Nt·ws Ediror 
llthnrs. California. She said she her deci­Center for Social Concerns "I really want<'d lo do snrvico," sion will bn basml on "whatevnr's 
Wliiln so11w seniors sign with said l fJ<)<J Notre Dame val,:dictorian more challenging." ceremony will honor Forfllm• 500 <'ompunics or plan .Jennifer Ehrnn. who will participate One thing llollancl is sure of is mad lrips aft<•r graduation. many in Notre Damn's J\lliancn for that Notre Dame has inlluenccd hr.r service-bound seniors an\ prnpari11g to sp1md months or Callwlic Education iACE) program. decisions. PV1m yPars living in dil'l'<inmt stal<'s "I fi,lt a nf!ed or dcsirn to give to "!Notre Dame! instigatc>d that goal Sp<:<:iaf to The·Observer and countries working wilh Llw others," said .John lnfranca. who or desire Ito do service!," she said. 
poor. wants to "live simply" f'or tlw next Many students agree that Notre Some 170 Notr11 Danw graduating seniors who Arwrding lo Anclr(\/l Shappnll. year with IInly Cross /\ssociatos in Dame's emphasis on service and 
arn embarking on a y(\ar or morn ol' s11rvic(i in this 
dil'l~ctor ol' tli<~ sPnior transition 1dther Portland, Orn., or San giving to others has inf1uenc(id their country and abroad will ho honornd at the 
program ill tl1,• CPnWr /'or Social Francisco. "IH will bn al totally dif­derisions a greal deal. Univnrsity'.s annual Snnior St;rvico Sond-Off 
C1111ccrns (C:SCI, apprnximaLcly 170 t'nrnnt experience than th<: rnst of "My nducation made mo think Saturday at 10 a.111. in Washington llall. 
sPniors hav1• r.ommiUrnt t.o snr­morn lol' what it mnans to\ liv11 Tho cnremony will honor tlrn grad11atns who will Vil't' prnjp1•ls upon graduation. a Christian life," said lnfranca, be sr.rving in more than 40 snrvic,\ programs in I;j That 1111nilwr is down from last who will graduate with a countries.
'MAKING MONEY IS NOT WHAT LIFE IS
ynar's group of l 88. hul minor in theolngy, He chose to Edmund Cardinal Szoka, prt~siden t ol' thn Shappell addt'.d, it should raise NECESSARILY ALL ABOUT.' join the I loly Cross Associat1is l'ontilka.l Commission for Vatican City and lhrmnr lo around 180 by tlrn nnd of because of its inrlunnce on archbishop of Dotroit, will lead a pray<'r to opm1 Sllllllllt'l". community lifo, something he the ceremony. Cardinal Szoka will also roccivn an 
Mm.1ss11 /\111\TlfHNY came lo appreciate at Notre
"Souw slud,·11ts son lscrviccl honorary diigrce from the Univursity at com­
·ns a way of 1•xplori11g carnnr SEN!Oll Danrn. nrnncemflnl oxercises Sunday. .options," sai!I Shappell. who "I think about things differ-University president Fath1:r Edward Malloy will 'said 1>h1• nolin~d a trnnd for stu­ently," said Matheny. addrnss t!rn seniors, as will Mark Labon, a l 989 
denls to d1•fi•r job ol'f'nrs or gradu­mv lifo will be likP." "lbpericnr.c at Notre Dame! helped Notre Dume graduatn and I loly Cross associate in 
alP school Lo commit to scrvic,~ ~1any studnnts se1ik service me learn about the poverty ol' the Chiln l'rom 1<)89 to 1991, LaboP now dirncts Amal!~ opportunilins. For most st.ucl1mls, 1,pportunitim; to intcgratn "spiritu­world." I louse. llw young adult volunteer program l'or the shP said, "[s<'rviccf is a natural ality, community living" into o,rn's The CSC will host Lim S1,nior Catholic archdiocese ol' Chicago, whom several lra11silio11." life decisions, said Shappell. Service Scud Off on Saturday, May Notrn Dame graduates havP bmm voluntmirs. 
"I didn't wanl lo jump into the ''I don't snn it as a way ol' figuring 15, lo celebrate the graduates com­A special foaturn ol' this year's snnd-off will Im an 
businnss world." said Mnlissu lout your life\," slw said, hut noted mitted to service after grad uution, appearance by former U.S. senator llarris 
Matlwny, wlio plans to spm1d two that service "opnns up a uroader The evimt will honor the l 70 gradu­Wofford, now chiof executive officer of the 
yPars with tlw l'Pa<'C Corps working basn of opportuniti!is." ates sPrving next year in morn than Corporation for Public SPrvicn. 
as a lwP-kccpPr in Lalin i\mcrira. Bridget lIolland might agrnn with 40 service programs in 15 coun­Wofford has played an important role in the 
"Making 1110111~y is not. what !it'll is Shappell. llolland is deciding tries, according to Father Don advancement of voluntnf1r service from Urn foun­
1rnc1'ssarily all about." bctwenn positions as a college pro­McNeil!, executive director of the dation of the Peace Corps to the foundation of' 
Studl'nts l'rom all backgrounds gram coordinator or as a membnr csc. AmeriCorps. · 
Corporation awards financial support to ACE 
SpcciAI co The Ob,erver gramming to support the pro­maintain program evaluation professor in the Program of' i\rneriC:orps, the corporation has 
gram's summer tcacher-training and support on-site mentorship Liberal Studies, who will study provided grants, as well as 
T hr ,\I Ii a 11c1i l'or Catho! ic: and scrvicn-learning institute. as of ACE teachers. moral educators. $4,725 annual awards to all l-:cl11rntio11 (/\Cl•:) at Nnlni Dame well as on-site supervision of' A portion of the latter grant Since the founding of ACE in qualilying ACE participants. who has n'l'eivPd twn ,ww granl'i and ACE tnachcrs by University fac­also ,.vill be used to fund two sig­1994, the Corporation for arc thereby considered full-Limn annual Pducation awards total­ulty. nificant educational research National Service has served as J\meriCorps 1rnimbcrs. This year. ing almost $ l million from tlrn i\notlrnr grant will provide studies -one by Micbael the program's largest founda­127 /\CE participants will receive Corporation for National Servicc, Notrn Dame's Model Programs Pressley, the Notre Dame tional benefactor. At that time, more than $(,00,000 in the parr•nt agency for in Teacher Training and Profossor of Catholic Education ACE was selected as one of 11 AmnriCorps mlucation awards. AnwriC:orps and other fedPral Education with $100.000 Lo and professor ol' psychology, who Higher Education Demonstration which the program's graduates snrvicc initiatives. recruit mastnr teachers as clini­will examine thfl challenges for Programs in a national competi­can usn to reduce federal stu­
ACE has lrnn11 awardnd caI faculty members in the first-yoar teachers; and a second tion. Through thn Loarn and dent loans or lo p11rs1w f'urt!wr $11 'l.200 in funding !'or pro-Master in Education Program, by F. Clark Power, chair and Serve America Program and graduate study. 

'~, 
--7~/M,~~~­
~~a~tile,-
QCongratulations anb 
~oob JLuck to ®ur 
~rabuating ~eniors 
1'~Barto1D HA11 -0ti?Darto1o Haff 1/0 Scrriccs Stwbmt Mam.5fff 
l~htt V. McC4'rtHiJ J<.'>111ifor L.,ws,m Hc.-.thcr A. M.-.rtitt !<rlst., McC.,rth\J 
Mcl<mttaHaU
H~.,tl,~,· N.,tdb,,r5 

Erin s.,ck.,~'1 OJT/£R Sffl'iCff 
Mid1:J.d Cm•m<"r 1....-n.,.-.l Smith 
At111 Sc.,rlc 

'OeBartolo HaU 
Kttowleb5tMAtta5ffl1rnt 
J,,r5.'.' An511k, S.r. l{dl'1 

congr01tut01te~ tke cttll~~ of1999 Good Clilcleen~! 



VIEWPOINT 
page 18------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAMF. 0/'flCE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46'i56 (219) 63 l•7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-rN-CIIIEF Michelle Krupa MANAGING EDITOR 8USINF.SS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryan Dave Rogero 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Laura Perelle 

N~ws EDITOR..... . ...... .Tim Logan AuVER'll.SING MANAGF.R...................... Bryan Lutz Vl~WPOINT EDITOR .............Colleen Gaughen All Of.SIGN MANAGER .............. Kenneth Kearney SroR-.-s EDITOR .......................... Brian Kess,er SYSTEMS MANAGER........ ...........Michael Revers SCENE EDITOR ...................Michael Vanegas CONTROLU:R..................................Timothy Lane SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ....... Colleen McCanlw GRAPHICS EnrroR..............................Joe M,ie\ler PHOTO EDITOR ... ................Kevin Oalu,;, WF.B ADMINISTRATOR •.......•..•••...•...•• Erik Kushto 
The Ob5crvcr is t!-te ind~•p,<:ndc:m 11ew~paper published by chc llhaic-nts of the University of~or~ Dame du Lac and Saint Mal'}·'s Collcg\", ii does not nec,e.ss.uily reflect the policies ohhe .1dmini.~tratio11 ofeither ins[iturior.. The news ls 
reported as w:urardy and objl·-Ctivcly ,l.~ possible:. Unsigned e:d.itori.t!li rt"prcscnt the opinion of the m;1jority of the 
Ediror-in-ChUf, M:1n:1ging Editor, Assistant M,maging Editor and dep.irrrncnr edimrs. Commentaries, letters ~ml columns prcscRt the views ofthe authon, ,md not necessarily chose of·1·hc ()b._erver. Vicwpninr space is ,1vailable to :1JI me111ben; of rhe Notre D:1.nw/S:iinr M,1ry's community :ind to all readers. The free expression of vnrying opinions 
through let[C'fli is. ('ncuu1:1ged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Ediror-in-Chi,f  631-4542  Office Manager/General Information  631-7471  
Mana~ing Ediror/Assisrant ME  651-4541  Business Office  631-5313  
New:,­ 631-5323  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Vicwpo,nr  631 ·5303  Synems/Wcb Administrator  631-88.39  
Sport~  631•4543  Fax  631•6927  
Scene  631·4540  Ad E-M•il  observer@datwin.cc.nd.edu  
Saint Mary's  6.31-4324  New, E-Mail  observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu  
Photo  631 ·8767  Viewpoint E-Mail  observer.viewpoint. I@nd.edu  
¦ GUEST COLUMN  

The Choices We Make Deterllline the End of the Story 

On Feb. 10, 1994, I decided that I'd go for a jog. Unless you remember back that far, this should seem perfectly nor­mal; but if you live anywhere in the northeast of the country, you probably remember the blizzard of 1994. 

Spencer Stefko 
You may remember it because you had to miss work or because you got to miss school, or because it shut down entire cities for a week. My family and friends remember it because l decided to go for a jog. It was three degrees, and the wind-chill was well below zero. Needless to say, this will not be a story of intelli­gence. 
For the first 3.3 miles of my run, my time was the best that I'd ever had. What happened immediately after would change a whole bunch of' lives in a hurry. 
I don't. remember much about what happened next -just waking up in the hospital about 45 minutes later. Come to think of it. I don't remember much about the next seven months either. I still don't know what really happened. I just know it was something that had to do with my heart. Apparently it's a bad thing when it stops beating. Oh, yeah, I almost forgot -my memory stopped working, too. 
It wasn't partially damaged -1 didn't just forget little things. Nah. The thing simply broke. Any ability to learn new information was gone. I couldn't remem­ber Jack. (I'm not being crude, Ma -I really couldn't remember meeting Jack.) I couldn't meet any new people, actually (for longer than a few seconds, anyway). I couldn't remt~mber that I had taken a shower. I couldn't remember that I had eaten. I couldn't learn anything now in school. 
We went to Johns Hopkins to see the best neurologist in the country. The group there had never seen anything like this before. Hell, they had never "heard" of anything like this before. They called it pure amnesia, simply for lack of a better term. The only other time this had happened was to someone who had a hemisphere of his brain · removed. 
For a moment, put yourself in my par­ents' shoes. Their kid went from captain of two varsity sports teams and presi­dent of the student body to a walkin', talkin', no-memory-havin' vegetable. One second your pride and joy (okay, one of your seven prides and joys) has the world by the tail. The next moment, the best doctors in the country are telling you that he probably won't ever be able to live on his own. 
College? Law school? Pppbbbbbbttttttttt. Unless he had already learned enough to pass the G.E.D., their kid wouldn't even be edu­cated on a high school level. 
The real story of this story begins here. My Ma basically shut down her life for the next seven months or so to do everything for me that I used to do on my own. My Daddy had to face the choice that every graduating senior will have to face some day: Work or family? It looks easy on paper, but in reality, the choice could read more like: What you worked for for the past 30 to 40 years of your life or family? 
T~ey made the choice that I'm sure 
everyone wishes they could make ­
they chose family. They had never had 
to drop everything of their own interest 
before, but they did. 

Fate asked my brothers and sisters to 
cancel usual commitments to do things 
for me -take me to and from rehab, 
take me to and from school, and to help 
me with my rehab. It asked them to 
understand how this kid who appear1>d perfectly normal {except for Urn 35 pounds I put on in the month immediate­ly following my jog) needed someone to tell him when to shower, when to stop showering, and which towel to use. They had choices to make -and never once did they choose selt'ishly. 
My high school best friend was called on to sacrifice her seqior prom so she could take me and basically chaperone me for the evening. 
My high school teachers never had to !'ace the decision of whether or not to take a kid back in school for a fifth year who probably wouldn't be able to pass his classes. But when the subject came up in a faculty meeting, the head of the discipline board (who had just recently taken me off of probation) closed the matter to debate by saying, "Let's do this." 
The high school basketball coach never had to decide which he wanted more: to win basketball games or help kids out. (Doctors had said that physical activity would be good to help me return to the way my life was. Soccer was out because striking a ball with one's head is not -contrary to Looney Tunes wis­dom -the best way to regain memory.) 
The coach was building an impressive basketball program, but the next step in proving you're serious about winning games is not to let a soft, out of shape zombie on your team who had never played basketball before in his life. Fate made him make a choice. 
There's more to the story, but no space here. There's the anecdote about my father walking into the hospital to ask me if I had i>aten. I told him "no" right before he realized that there were 8 empty personal pan pizza boxes behind me (that, apparently, was break­fast). I couldn't remember when I ate, so I just ate all the time. 
Or the one about me showering con­stantly until I learned to put my clothes on inside-out to signal to myself', at a glance, that I had showered. 
There are the counth~ss stories of me meeting people 10, 20 times. Just ltke Com Flakes: Meet them again -for the first time. 
The list is endless, but the stories are for another day. Bei'ure I go, I've got three points for everyone. 
First, anyone who thinks that gradua­tion is a personal triumph rather than the culmination of other people's effort, is dreadfully misguided. I don't know about you specifically, but my support network deserves the degree I get on Sunday more than I do. 
Secondly, everyone in this columu was puslrnd to make decisions that they never dreamed they would have to make. When pushed, everyone in this. column -without fail -chose tho self­less route. This is the true story. lleck, my Ma never went more than a fow hours without seeing me for live or six months. 
All graduating seniors will bA making these choices in no time. The choices we make will determine the endings to these stories. We can choose to be part of stories that mad like this, or we can choose to be part of stories that read like tragedies. 
Thirdly, it ain't about money. Any Notre Dame graduate will have a chance to make good money (except the American Studies graduat,is). But tim1• spent -not money spent -made nm . recover from this. It didn't matter ii. my father was a rich man, a poor man, a gingerbread man. All that mattered was how patient he would be with me during rehab, how much time he would invest in me. 
Tlrnse will b~ our decisions very soon. If we do half as well as the people mPn­tioned above, tlrn people who d11pcnd on us will be as lucky as I was. 
Godspeed. 

Spencer St.ejko is graduating with a bachelor·s degree in J\merican Studies. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
¦ DOONESBURY 
NO,HON~Y, ITS JUST ?HATlli/STRAGcl7f HA5 DUN
OrCOUR$e I MOJ11 
IXJN77HINK.. A NAKe-UP CAU. 
I~

YOIJ'RE:A IV/?. AU.. PAR/3NT.!3,,. 
/ATE:,,.
I
TIM/3 5CJM8,,, 
~ 


GARRY TRUDEAU  
~fi4V8 7D START PAYING ATTENTION "11J OIJ/?. KIOS, 70 J,/57EJI/ "11J NI-IAT 7HBY'I<£ 5AY/N(3,,,  ACTUAUY, MOR£lliAN l'3T£N/ tfle HAVt3"1D '&AR7H/3M.'  NeV!3R MINP.ra  

• Quon: OF THE DAY 
'wearsunscreen.' 
-Mary Schmich 
5-14 

VIEWPOINT 
hiday, May l 4, 1999 OB~tRVER ---------------------------------page 19 
¦ GUEST CoUJMN 
Loving the Tarnished Dome 
Tlw last thing I i>XpP<'l«'d was to gradualc bdorc arrival in South Bend. I used HV!-'ry littfo from !lw !l11ivnsily ol' Notn~ lla11w. thing I disliked about Notre Dame as a rnason 
Tlw sl'.!1001 in South BPrnl, Ind., was ,,wry-lo transfer. Parietals. Gray skies. Catholicism. thing I was not: Catholi!'., l'OnliPrvativn, Cnnl'ormilv. Of r,ourse I knew about all nl' thPsc MidwPslPl'll and football-obsnssl'd. To almost things lw(ire I arrived, but t.liey suddenly PVPryo1w in my family. tlws1• inrng<'s s1·rPa11wd sec1nied likn lhe porfoct mason to leave. I incompatiliility and mis,~ry !'or a ProtPslant. ref'usnd to enlnrlain Lim thought that perhaps ! Soutlwrn gi1·l liko 111ys!'ll'. This was a plani was the only porson rnsponsjblc for llw misery, whPn' •m 1wr1·n11t of' tlrn population could rwvnr that nvnry other university I had tunwd down 
inwginn having ,a ,\'Olil,Ul ==========.-=_=_::_=_=_::_::_=_=_::_::_=....,::. had its own set of' rnal and 
li·ad a d1urrh st'l'Vi('t'. Tlw imaginod f'aults just like tlrn stud1•11l lrndy was usPd t.u on<is I saw surrnunding tho snow, wi11d, shov1.Js and H th Cold1~11 Douw. srrap1•rs. Notrn llanw was ea er Them isn't onc partirula1· tlw flntillwsis ot' Pv1,ry-moment that made mn decide tiling I had llJJl!H"il'llp:d or MacKenzie lo give Notro Dame a second imagirwd. chance. It. mighl hav<' berm 
But I was dl'li\rrlli1wrL Llw way tlrn light ('ell on the Tlw mtm• I n·ad about water onn lonoly night Noln\ !Jam<', llw morr• I around tlrn lakes, or the way was rnnvinrt•d il was ½hl'l'I' I rnuld linally f1nd my voicn 11oatNl in tho Basilica during my lirst mysPlf. And al'11•r visiting. I felt that stt>n\otypi-Chorahi concPrt. Slowly I realized I was judging ml Sl'l!S(' ol' horn!' -(\VPrylhi11g sn<·rrn~d lo lit Notrn Dame liy tlw same impossibln standards so11wl10w. I l'Ollld SPI' mysnlf walking in front of thal had been ustid to judge me in high school. tliP llrmw. 11wf'li11g l'riPmls in l.aFortunP, criticizing all tho unimportant parts without singing i11 tlw Basilica. I could surviVI' llw frigid considPring thn co111pldP1iess ol' thn whole. WPallwr and th1• Midw,•stPrn town. This was Notrn Dame was not. thnro to Im pPrfcct. it was thn pl,H'f'. tlrnrP to holp nm discow)r the beauty of imper-
To 11w. ('Ollt'J.(!' l'ection. offl'r1•d an Psrnp1• ----=-... . _ Some or the most from tlH' high-~ -~ --~ --_... ___::=-important lessnns a srhool world I haLPcl ~-(:_____; -----college can teach wlwrP 1wrfPclly --· _-~-_ ----· am those of indc­la111wd girls roa111Pd pendence. dissen­tlw liallwavs in sion and change. i111p1•11PtrahiP Ideas of infallibilitv diquPs and dl'lPr-=---"'-can only broe1.d " mi,wd tlw fat,• ol' .---_.,.,/ dose-mindcc ness. tlw nmss,•s wil Ii tlw ..-_""'=-and Notre Dame. point ol' a 111a11i-C -__;::,.} -----l'ar l'rpm infallible, run•d fi11gPr or tlw --._ _ ___.--::--=:: will alwavs be in flip of' strnight, ~ -_ _ ----Lhc process of find­blondP hair. ! was ing herself. She still 1111t 01w of 1lw111: too dings to the nar­smarl, silly and row view that dis­u11rc•mark;1illl' to -\'0., crimination based 
f'VPr he' <·onsidPred ·~--'\\\ on snxual orienta­"popular." -----"-= lion is tolerable. ! sign1•d tlw ac1·1\p-She is still ovcr­
1

lanrt• IPttPr and \\\ prolectiwi of her slarl1•d ovf'r. I children to a fault, join,•d l'illhs and cwen as they reach Wf'llt to mixc•rs, flirt-adulthood. But f'd slmnwlnssly and \\ \ r,ould we have ever mad<• surf' lh,;1 no learned as much rn1t• g111issl'd ! lmd \' about ourselves in llPV<'r had a datP in a place we never high sC'h11ol. hnd fought with, a 1H·v1·r IH'Pll dnmk place that was lwforP thal party in always right'! 1J I!'i 1:1a111wr I tall. I always used to l·11r about thrt'f' roll my tiyes when \Vl'l'ks. I lf'd tlH• pPr-1/ my parents told me li•t'.l lifl' of a Notn• 1 that one day I !)anll' lh·shman. would rnalize they But Pven ninl' were right. da111·11 datPs in on<' Sometimes I still s,•nwstt>r <"ould not do. But as I stand quash tlw lmwlirwss to leave this place, I fc•lt as Llw noVt'lty I finally understand of m111111111iily bath-what they meant. rooms ancl Somewhere in the bunkh,ids starl<'d to middle of' every-thin. I kPpt tnlling thing, between the 111ys1dl' that lllf'rn days I almost was rw rPason to lw pa~:ked my bags unhappy with this and Lim momm1ts I plarc•, this school wishnd graduation wlwrn no 01w krww would 1wvei· arrive, I us1•d to bingn on Notrn Dame was pPa1111t M8,;,.1s and righl. All those ( lrPos on Friday things I disagnied nights wililn tlw rt'St with him1 made me of my dassmat,•s a strongm· person, 
wt•n• hanging out al ===============;.;_:_::=::=.:.::...., full of indnpen­
f'ootball g,111ws and movies logdhcr. I had dcncc and opinion. And those things that I movml my sluffod animals and my preppy lovml -many that will only be rnalized ynars wardrnlw I:{ hours and 4 states north of' afkr graduation -are lhn lHssons Notre Dame i\tla11ta, but my mind had not ynt l!il't high and I leanrnd tog,\ther. school. I was surroundNI by 1ivprything I had 111 the middln of'the chans. it scums, this <WtT wanll'd -the popular crowd, the parties. University and I found each other. Lho camaradnrin -and by evnrything I thought I had hPrm missing. No onP had told mo that !leal!wr MacKenzie is gradnaling with a so11wti11ws Llw midrlln of tho crowd is tho lmrnli­bachelor's degree in history and American (~st plac1i to b1\. Studies. She serm~d as the 1998-1999 assistant 
lllaming Notrn Dnnw for my unhappiness was managing editor ofThe Ob:wrver. tiw 1iasi1!SL thing to clo. lnst1iad of admitting lhal rhe views expressed in this column are lhose lining part ot' Urn 1:rowd was not the magic snlu­rfthe author and ,wt necessarily those rfT!w tio11 guarantoed LO nrasp any traces ol' life Observer. 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Professor O'Hara 
Bids Farewell 
I would like to take this opportunity to extend my prayers and best wishes to the members of the class of 1991). Commencement is a time of many mixed emotions. Prido in your achiovenrnnts, excitement and apprnhension about new beginnings, happiness and sadness all come together as you prepare to leave. 
For those or you who are graduating strniors. I hopH that. w(i have achieved our goal of providing you with an education that integrates the life of the mind with the life of' th£1 h£•art. May your commit.men! to your faith in (,od and t.o the service of' (iod's pno­plo match your dedication to your chosen vocation and profession. We have high expectations of our graduates. The tremendous contribution that our alumni make to society and t.o the Church is a testament to the importance of thesn high expectations. 
For those of you leaving with graduate and professional degrees, T hope that you will carry with you the best of our tradi­tions as I.hoy relate t.o your discipline. If' you bring to your choson tiold a stronp; set of ethical convictions and a cnmmitnrnnt to jus­tice. you will reprnsent the very best of Notre Dame. 
Finally, a noto ol' gratitude to all of you. You not only take from here; you also give. You have made a variety of contributions to your fellow students. to the University and to those of us who remain behind to assist students who will follow you. 
May Our Lady, Notrn Dam(~, continun to watch ovl'r you in the years ahead. We are blessed to have you as mcmlmrs of the Notre 
Dame fomily. 
Professor Patricia A. O'Hara Viet Pmidenr for Srudc111 Affairs May 10, 1999 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

What I Learned From My Kids: Growing Up Deteriorates Society 
Children represent one of the most fulfilling passions in my lil'P. I work and volunteer in day cam. Yeah. I know guys am supposed to appear tough and not become completely vulnerable al the sight of an infant, but whatever that makes me, so be it. ! am not going to deny myself the single most rnwarding part of my day to lit into a stereotype or be like the other guys. 
At one of the daycarn centers whcrn I volunlt1erml. I am the only male out of two dozen cmployeos. When I started. parnnts ot'tnn looked twice at me, and one cvnn commented. "That's nice of you," as if I was doing mandatory service against my will. Norw ol' that bothers mn. I sincnrn!y lnvn children. and we have a lot to learn from them. 
I watch tlrnse kids of all different races, 11ationalilics and religions interact so well with one anotlH11-, recognizing everyone nlsn as <1qual friends. Beyond namo, every other charal'tr1ristic i-; irrnlevant. Art.Pr atta.ining perfection al such an.early agn. sonwthing drastic occurs: They grow up. These innocnnt.. all-loving childron b(1C:011H1 taint.-d in this world saturalt\d with racial crinrns. rdigious wars and discrimi­nation. 
Whal happens lo us bctwe,m the ages of] and 2:r' Wn lnarn lo look down on those different from us bncauso wn livl' in a world which contaminates our most imporlanl resourcP. Fort.unatPly. "wp" does not apply to all of us, but it dons rnlloct much of society. Considerable progress has bnen madn, but wn still havn a long road ahead before we recapturn that 1wrf'nct state wn held as mnre chil­dren. 

Every time I consider this throo-year-old's utopia. I am fillnd with an overwhelming sense of hope. r also scorn current sodnty. Treating everyone as nquals is not a new concept for us. It's just 01w we've long since forgoltnn. 
Mike Miazga Senior (lH~Campus 
April I0, I9'l9 

VIEWPOINT 
page 20 -------------------------
Friday, May 14, 1999 
¦ GUEST COLUMN 
Why I Won't Miss ND 
When I think about what the last four I thought I had found a niche at this ynars haw meant. lo me. I reatizn that I University wlrnrc I cnuld lllt out all my wouldn't changP a thing. Don't. get mp frustrations and express myself' any wrong -I still had those days when l way I wanted. I'm a theatre and wished I had gmw elsewh,~re, but I English major, so I figured I coulrl stuck with it. \ftor all, if I had not 0ither express myself through my wril­staved here. l would not havci made tho ings or performance. Wrong again. friends I have grown to love and call my ladios and gentlemen. I\Jot only was it family. Without these friends. I would sad, but it was humiliating to work with not have been able to survive this pseu-some people in the film. Uihwision and do-community 1woplc call Notrn Dame. thealre dt~partment. Everyone usually 
I came to Nutrn ================ considers Urn t.lrn-
Dame with tlw aim majors as tlrn intentions of being ¦ most open-minded
R k 
loved and rnspnct-ol' all students.
Ic yed as I had been in Don't he fooled, my small town ul' though. Some of my Puarsall. Texas. R ' peers can be the The people of our biggest jerks and
amOn church, who hap-small-minded peo­pen to Im primarily pin at times. And Mexican-kt's not forget those American. treated everyone with love who teach us. I tired of thost~ professors and respe!'.L When choosing to come to who thought they were all into multi-Notre Dame. I dedinod to go to other culturalism and felt that because they prestigious universities solely boeausn had two or three people o[' color in their Notre Danw was tho No. J Catholic class that tlwy arc down for the fight school in the nation. I !igured since my against racism. Time af'tcr lime. I've churr,h from Pearsall was so loving and been asked why people of color do not accepting of' ml', Notre Dame. being audition for plays. Tim answer is sim-Catholic. would also be loving and pie: People of color who do audition accepting, Boy, was I fooled. never get cast and if they do get cast, it Not only being Mexican-American but is always a small role. And let's not being gay on this campus has been a overl0t;k the plays that arc performed nightmare. I have never been more here. Ilow many arc written by peoplo insulted by people who consider them-of color or homosexuals? I've realized selves to he followers of the Catholic that the only way one is performed is if tradition. Tradition is constantly being another person of color directs one. uttered throughout this campus and I have had my good times, though, tradition is what I with my friends. have received. That is one thing The tradition of ·, that I give Notre racism and Dame credit for. hatred, that is. Jt doesn't take 
I remember my much to be my freshman year friend. You have when there was a to open-minded racial war going and a good listen-on in The er basically. My Observer. I am \,. friends have
'>~­

sure everyone taught me a lot, can regurgitate , especially since the words of Fred -.._:. they all come Kelly and Tia , from different Likely and all the backgrounds. others who ',. >'-, religious tradi­thought it would ~\ tions and ethnici­be nice to bash ties. [ pity those every race but who went four their own. Native years without Americans were getting to know a referred to as person of color or "savages" and a homosexual. I white people know there are were referred to many of you out as "white devils." there who have I have never been missed out on so embarrassed wonderful friend-to be a part of ships. So stop this University. I being deprived was mistakcm to , and get ready for believe that com-\ a big slap in the ing to a Catholic face in the real university I world. would be living in I won't miss a community in Notre Dame. And which people \ I won't miss most 
loved one anoth-of the Domers er. I was wrong. either. People 
After the racial need to grnw up tnnsion mv fresh-and learn to Jove man year: things ~A./;; one anothBr. got worse. People v \ \ Q.£ Remember that it began to hear is Jesus' greatest that I was gay and fPlt that they could commandment. Domers need t<i learn harass me whenever they folt like ,it. l how to dross a~d dance, too. I'm so would study in my room and overhear glad to be leaving this horrible plare: people outside my room announce to I'm not so glad to being lca\'ing my others that the room I lived in was friends. I pray that Notre Dame where the homosexual lived. Them I changes for the better. started receiving insulting and threat­ening phone calls, I ended up taking Ricky Ramon is graduating with a those who harassed me to Residence bachelor's degree injilm, television and Ufe. Nothing, of course, came uut of it. theatre and English. They ended up g1•tting a slap on the The oiews e:rpressed in this column hand and Loki never to do that again. are those ofthe author and not nece:;­Co figure. At this University people can sarily those of The Observer. get away with just about anything if it is against people of' color or homosexuals. 

¦ lEnrn TO THE Eorrott 

Despite Creepy Traditions, Notre Dame is the Place for Me 
Today. I feel compelled to write this between sexes on campus are entirely quick little letter that is, I'm afraid, not weird to me. I shouldn't even go into al all controversial and lacking in all the whole phenomenon of single-sex debate. It's simply something I feel like dorms and parietals. The fact that the sharing with my fellow Domers. Kind of' RA on duty jangles keys every night as a shout out to those who find Notre a code at parietal time to get you bad Dame amusing. Take from it what you boys out has put me over the edge more will. than a few times. I am not a regular 
It seems somedays there are a million frequenter of the famous Notrn Dame little things that drive me absolutely SYR -or Holt's for that matter. The insane about Notre Dame and make me dorm mascot thing is odd to mu, too. I wonder where the heck I am and what I think I'm a Purple Wmtstd 'of some sort. have done to myself corning here. I read but I haven't really grasped tlw mean­The Observer so I know others fer.I the ing of this yet. The list go,~s on and on. same way. See, I am a junior transfer, Don't let my avoidancll and occasional or at least that was how I introduced fear of these traditional Notre Dame myself' until I survived my first semester characteristics fool you though; I con­without immediately failing-out (which sider this school mine and I regret was nice). nothing in transferring hem. 
Now I consider myself a fully actual­Notre Dame is not parietals and ized Domer and I am immensely proud shamrock stickers to me, and tlrns,1 lit­of this fact. One of the perks of being a tle personal annoyances cannot cw11r full-fledge Notre Dame student is that truly change the bigger picture l'or me\. now I can write to The Observer and While I may not seem to rcprcs11nt thn share my mundane views with you..iahd typicat'No\.'I'c~ Daine student, and I mav I am enjoying this privilege. I came cringe at the sight of' the ultra-Domers. here having gone to Saint Louis ·don't doubt that I havo as much love l'or University iny freshman year, tlrnn this place as tlrn guy nnxt to mo in NDII studying in Ireland my entirn sopho­wearing the full Notre Dame sw,\at suit. more year. Yes, this is my third univer­To me, and I imagine most, the Notn\ sity in three years -back off. Anyway. Dame degrne embodies hard work, as the year is coming to a close, I have overcoming intellectual chitllengns and been asked on more than ono occasion becoming a well-roundod porson. Notrn how I feel about my new school, what Oarnc~ will always havt\ a special place my impressions are having boon to two in my life as a goal I had in mind and a other colleges and if I have any regrets. goal I workud hard to acl1i1we, and it 
Well, I am 01rn of' those p1~ople who will continue to he a source of' conli­openly mucks what seems to he all that d11rn:e as I seek to achievu new goals is Notre Dame. Lots of things amuse me and face new challenges. about the way things run here that So while the obsessive outward wor­maybn shouldn't if I am to consider ship of Notrn Dame by morn than a fow myself a true Domer. I own very little alumnus and students may fright.en nm, Notre Dame apparnl or paraphernalia. I must say I still dig it Imm for all its an<l you won't see me wearing sham­bizarroncss. So in short. ovm1 though I rocks on my fare at the football garnns. jest, I have no rngrnts and I low this I have no idea what Urn words to the whole creepy placo. famous right Song are or the Alma And that's all I have to say about Mater, and don't even ask me where that. our football team stands in the rank­ings. The fact that every local n~iws Nora Daly television station seems to revolvn Junior around what's happr,ning on campus is Pasqucrilb West creepy. The old-school relations April l'i, 1999 
r----------------------­
VIEWPOINT 
Friday. May 14, 1999 ------------------OBSERVER -------------------------page 21 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
God, Canada, 
Notre Dame 
As gradualion draws near, tho University has goM 10 unusual lengths to tdl the story of six partkular students: Tao, Christopher, Goran. Benoit, Ernm ,Llld Jamikn. In a rnr(.mt University press release (7 May 1999), I nnti1:1Hl that. /\nt.hony "Canada'' Cocutti's story did not appear. Yet his story is on<' that must not go untold. 
In tht• fall of l 9'Vi. as f'rpshman were arriving on a beautiful campus in northwest,irn Indiana to lrngin what would become the four most memo­rable yoars of thr.ir lives, Anthony (or "Canada" as he has boon appropriate­ly named b1wause ofhis nationo.liLy) was beginning college ai. the University of'Tnront.o. · 
Lik,~ many sludcnb acruss the United States, Canada had always drnumed of 1tttending Notre Drune. But like so manv who have dcmonstrat• ed high scholastic aptil.ttdl:', dt!dicatod community involvement and exem­plary charnctor. Canada was not alford(ld that opportunity. 
It took another yonr before Canada got the chancP to transfer to Notre llarne a.nd fulfill his lifeloni dream. The obvious comparison that one might draw is Uml Canada is simply another ''Hudy." While they both tr~msferi·ed to this Univ1•rsity and arn both rnfened to by their nicknames, this is any­thing but the cmm. Canada is not Hudy; more accurately. Hudy is no Canadn. 
Tho story of Daniel "Hudy" lluottigcr is one that sparks imagos of a ·kid who might not have belonged at Notre Dame. But his love for this University. along with persistence. was enough to make his drnam come trun as the popular 1993 movie "Rudy" demonstratod. The story of Anthony "Canada" Cecutti sparks images of a kid who should have been at Notre Dame from the beginning, but who was able to respond positively to nega• tivP rircumstunces and still realiw his lasting dream. 
~hen Canada finally got to Notre Dame the next year, he was presented with a new challenge: becoming part of Notre Dame while living off-cam• pus. I~ was not m~til lhe following year that he had the opportunity to fully expcr1once what 1t meant to be a part of the Notre Dame community. As a resident of Sorin College, he had to deal with the awkwardness oftrying to 11ssimilat11 himself into a small environment where deep bonds of friendship had been formed w1,ll bnlore he had arrived at either Notre Dame or his clorm. 
The challenges of being a transfer student are great. How many ofus hav11 hflard other studonts question whether a particular transfer student flVen hr.longed at Notre Dame'! How many of us have assumed that transfer students must be "less" or they would have been here from the beginning'! 
Yet whil1-1 this constantly goes on, lew stop to realize that the path of transfer student<; is porhaps more difficult than those who started their col­lPge f':xperience at Notre Dame. For someone whose lifelong dream it is to ~:,~me to Notr1? Dame, bP-ing grantnd admission is only the beginning ofreal­1zmg that drcam. The biggest challenge is being accepted as a poor among the students who started hero as freshmen. 
Yet after litlle more than a semester, Canada was able to earn the friend­ship, rnspoct and trust of those who surrounded him. He was selected to be a !l.esidcnt Advisor in Sorin when the odds wore clearly against him. 
!o assume that the road toward success for a transfer student isn't filled with many obstacles would he a mistake. As Canada would tell you, it is not easy to l~e an oulsidor l_ooking in at Notre Dame when our community is so close. It JS tiven more difficult to become an insider in this community when being labfllcd as "different." But he was able to do it while keeping a smile on his face 11.nd kflAping his chin held high. The rewards and the memories for making such an effort will last Canada a lifetime. · 
Canuda's invo!Yfiment in service to both the campus and the local South Bend community has also not gone unnoticed by those who know him. This year, for example, Canada was the recipient of the two highest awards given annually to graduates from Sorin College: the Sorin Hall Spirit Award anrl thl-l Jay Kelly Memorial Award. whkh Is given to an outstanding senior who exemplifies what it means to be a pal't ofthe Notre Dame and Sorin College community. Yet Canada is an unassuming individual who does not seek attPntion but naturally gains it because ofhis concern for others ..... tho kind of person that makes you remember why Notre Dame is different from Georgetown or Duke. 
F?r those ~ho k1~ow Ca~ada, it was not a surprise to hear that after grad• uat1on, he will not 1mmod1atoly head to medical school. Instead, Canada will spend his next year -like nearly 200 other members ofthe Class of 1999 -engaged in a year of service. He will live and work with the extremely poor and homeless of Soulh Bend who face addiction issues at Life Treatment Centers. He demonstrates what author Kevin Coyne meant when he wrote: "College students, by nature, are inclined to think they can ch1tnge the world, but Notre Dame students are more inclined than most at:tually to tt•y" ("Domors," 1995). 
As the Class of 199() prepares to leave Notre Dame, Canada's story reminds us that so many of us take our time here for gi·anted. Few gradMF in~ srniors would ho nble to tell stories of more difficult paths that led to tlus WC'ekrnd. And yet even fewer graduating seniors have demonstrated to the same extent as Canada what iL means to be a student here. 
Whnn Canada graduates on Sunday. ho will take with him a tremendous story of overcoming difficult circumstances to succeed. For someone who may have arrived bd1ind most of his gra.dua.ting class. he hiaves much far­thr.r ahead in the game of' life. He recognized the value of a Notre Dame education whon it would have been oasier to simply ho complactmt and irarluat<' from tlw university where he starred. 
The grcntesl benefil of Canadn's story is Lhat it reminds all of us of one clear l'eality: no matter what happens in the future, the Notre Dame exporl­C'nco is onr that can nover bo taken away from any of us. For at least one time in our liws, wo were ull students under the lady atop the golden dome. 
¦ LIFE AT ND 

"Klankl!" 
"Ob no! 1 Not again!!" 
Nobody could bnlicve it! My dad had landed anothnr ringnr!! I!is team WPnt wild with excitement. I suppmm I shouldn't have been surprised. llorseshocs had always bc!'n one of his favorite games. · 
I remember people shouting, "Next time, we want Mel {Sr.) on OUH team!" !low r.ould my brother. sister and I be any prouder'? Dad was the most popular guy at the company's family picnic!! · 
As Mo!, Jr., l tried my best to be a chip off the old block. Unfortunately. my 11-year-old arms just woren't strong enough. I tried flick­ing tho shoes with one hand, like Dad, and almost broke my wrist. I even tried overhand, to the prizi!s we'd won_ In fact, a couple of' us had won Bazooka bubble gum. so we began amus­ing ourselves by rnading wrappnr jok1is to each oth<'r. 


Surld1rnly, I nolic11d -just a !'ow cars away -Urn friendly couple that had bonded with my dad for much of' the picnic, laughing on the way to their car. "Ilcy look, it's that ONE lady," I started to say, excited that we might have a chance to say goodbye. 
I bllgan waving, for they worn approaching quickly, until they were just rloso nnough for us to focus on their conversation topic: 
"lie said it was his birthday, but I wasn't gonna kiss no NIGGEH!" she lauglrnd to her husband. We froze, silent. Tlrny carriml on, 
oblivious to us. White 

-------------sandals clicked horror of many people who against talcum had to take off running scashnlls that paved when the flung shoe the path; voices 
Mel 
careened off the ground at blurrnd out of f'ocus, some weird angle toward and tlwn thoy worn them. llow my father could gone. !lick the darn things all the It was a long, long 
Tardy 
way to that distant pole with silence. Within our rodusive
one hand, I never under­
stood. I was sure he was the strongest guy in the world. 
Adding to his popularity, it was Oad's birth­day. People would come up, finger poised on a beer-can trigger, yelling, "Iley Birthday Boy, (shplit) how about another cool one?" 
He also just had a great personality, keeping everyone at the picnic rolling with his humor­ous one-liners. One couple in particular really seemed to bond with him and my mom. Whether it was horseshoes or other events, they never strayed far from the life of the party. 
The real praise came when it was time to eat. If you're from New Orleans, you'd better know how to cook. Sure enough, there was my father on the grill, helping to cook barbecue ­one of' his specialties. Ribs, chicken, burgers and 'dogs. MMMM rnhh!! I-le made sure every­thing was cooked just right. 
After eating, full bellies craving rest gave in to the efforts of Dad and others to get people -especially the kids -involved in games. My brother, sister and I had a TON of fun. For the first lime ever, we ran a three-legged race; then a potato sack race! One glorious event after another. 
My sister even won a race. Dad caught some home movies of that one. Sadly, I haven't seen those flicks in about 15 years -before the gears died in our beloved movie projector. I still recall many times, though, waiting for my father to adjust that blurry picture uni.ii the filmed memory would pop into focus, and we'd all yell. "There!! No, go back. llighl there!! Ahhhhhh!!!" 
Now, when you're 11 years old, you think your parents am about as important and pow­erful as the American president. We'd never heard of a personnel "supervisor," but we did know this: Dad does it, so it must be impor­tant. Seeing him in action at the picnic only served to convince us that he, in fact, ran the entire company. {It didn't matter that lrn'd mentioned his "boss" several times.) Yes, we felt proud. We really had a good time. 
Whon <'arly evening crawls around in the Big Easy, how(lver, even kids nm out of steam, ,ispecially when the mosquitoes awaken. Long before people starttid to pack up the picnic 
sanctuary, Urn world suddenly seemed smallnr. Wn looknd at each other, expressions bewildered. Our father had been so happy that day; he had more fun than he'd had in a long time. "Let's not tell Dad," we agrood. We didn't want to spoil his birth­day. 
Sure enough, when our parnnts finally arrived. Dad was still beaming. Closing the door and starting the engine, he asked if we'd had a good time. We assured him that we had. I think he smiled peacefully all the way homo that night. 
We have never shared that incid(lnt with my father or mothnr. 
Life is a natural incubator. To our chagrin, what we say or do in darkest corrrnrs may one day germinal£! into the light. like hiddtm dan­delions rooting in black t\arth. Wn can't assume that hurtful comments, made soem­ingly out of narshot, will not still find their tar­get. The fool's remmly for wicked soe<ls is to bury them in the dark; bett1w to get them out in the open. where they can be crushed. So I say to you, when we hide thn notion that racism exists in our day, is it really gone or are we actually incubating it, multiplying it deep within. Do we become 1:arriers of an ill­ness we should have smrn the doctor about yesterday? If it's the latter, how will it lhm1 manifest itself? Perhaps in an off-hand com­ment to a confidant? Wn must get racism into the open ifwe ever hope to dnal with it, to pnrmanently crush it. 
Thal woman probably went home thinking about how "integrated" they were for frat<\r­nizing at a picnic with her husband's black co­worker and family. Shu was a coward! Shn'll mwer know how much she hurt that co-work· cr's childrr,n. 
I'm still proud of my old man, though. 1 rnal­ize, now that suroly he k1ww his co-worknrs. Truth is, lw actually put up with such insults daily just so wn could have a btittPr lifo. 
No. he's not as important as the prnsidnnt ... lrn's MOHE important. /\lkr all, lw taught mn how to play horsnshm$. 
For that. I'd gladly bP his partnnr any day of' thP. w1wk. 
site, wo were bogging our parents to let us go Melvin R. Tardy. Jr. is a Firsl >'ear ltduisor sit in the car until it was time to leave. Finally, and can be reached lll
Nick Tyszka 
they agreed. mclvin.r.lardy. 7@nd.edu. 
Junior 
Settling in wilh windows half-mast, we 711e views expressed in I his column are
Sorin College 
scratched newly-acquired mosquito bites those ofthe author and not necessarily those
May 11. 1999 
while talking about the day's evenls and of The Observer. 
C 
page 22 


¦ 8cene ASKS ... 

DESC'RIBE YOUll 
EXPERIENCE AT NOTRE DAME llN THREE WORDS. 


"Alcohol. Parietals. Friends." 
Erin Evans 
Farley Hall 


"These are [the] days. " 
Missy Tushak 
McGlinnHall 


"Food. Folks. Fun." 
Brian Fremeau Carroll Hall 


"Fat Shirley's Truckers' Special." 
Johanna Ward 
Welsh Family Hall 


"Friends. Church. Diarrhea." 
Beth Lawler 
McGlinn Hall 


"I Love ND." 
Anna Susalla 

Breen-Phillips Hall 


£""\.JHE
vt1SERVER ----------------Friday,May 14, 1999 

By MICHAEL VANEGAS 
Scene Edi tor 
Less than four years ago, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame welcomed the Class of 1999 to good ol' South Bend. This weekend, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame wave a long goodbye to the same students, who after four years are older (duh). smarter (hopefully) and wiser (depending on a student's weekend habits). 
When these graduating seniors were wee freshman, it was expected that they not know exactly what they were doing. Come Monday, however, these college graduates will have to face a shady future of solving the problems that life shoots their way. Arter four years of concentrating solely on getting decent grades and planning weekend extravaganzas, it is now time to enter the realm of uneasiness that all young people face: Adulthood. 
Now it is clear that a vast majority of the Class of 1999 already has its immediate futures planned. Some are continuing their educations at law, medical or graduate schools. Some have had jobs lined up since autumn. A certain militaristic sect of the student body has known its future since freshman year, and it will be continuing ROTC training in the real armed forces. Wherever the members of the Class of 1999 may be headed, they certainly have a whole life of adult-relat­ed situations to wade through, with hope that they reach the end of their lives with some degree of happi­ness and satisfaction. 
Each and every graduate of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's Class of 1999 will be facing a few challenges along the journey of adult life. And though everyone progresses at different rates, it is inevitable that chal­lenges will at least cross the minds of these graduates at some time throughout their lives. 
Just as maps of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were presented so many times during freshman orientation, so must there be a guide to the segment of one's life that is dauntingly titled adulthood. 
The Freewheeling 20s 

It is suggested that the next eight or nine years be spent trying to perfect a recipe mixing the seriousness of the real world with the craziness of college life. This time in a person's life is perhaps the only time that this craziness is still accepted. At the same time, it is also expected that young adults try to establish an emotional and financial foundation that will aid them in their middle age. 
To understand the importance of the freewheeling 20s, one must only look at the cultural phenomenon of Must See TV Thursday. 
One of the main reasons why "Seinfeld" was so suc­cessful throughout its long run was that it portrayed the pathetic lives of four adults in their 30s and 40s. The quartet of Jerry, Elaine, Kramer and George exhibited, in its greatest form, the immaturity that is the college person. 
But when it came to respect, Jerry and company commanded none. The combination of middle age and immaturity is not acceptable in American society. The fact that "Seinfeld" was a ratings success and its sim­ple identity as a comedy suggest that the pathetic nothingness of "Seinfeld" is merely an object of American ridicule. 
If the characters were transplanted into their 20s, say, as the sextet of "Friends" are, then the respect they would gain would be abundant. Because they are young and because they are still learning the little lessons of life, Rachel, Ross, Monica, Joey, Phoebe and Chandler prove that the freewheeling 20s define the transitional part of one's life that falls between hard­core adulthood and late adolescence. 
So don't get too serious on Monday, as the fun will continue in this altered state. 
The Definitive 30s 

Some time during this decade of one's life, a career should already be established. Thus, when the gradu­ates of '99 reach this point in their lives, the center of their thoughts should be family. After 10 years of sleeping around, practicing safe sex to avoid the "fam­ily way" and disregarding any serious feelings about spending one's whole life with that special someone, the 30th birthday should be the first time that mar­riage and kids cross the minds of the Class of 1999. 

.j; •.. •' i-' . ' <-ffi _·,.!t.... .., The Class of 1999 at Notre Dame present to prepare for the future. today, followed below by the fa  


--------------~7 
Friday, May 14, 1999-------------------OTHE ---------------------page23
BSERVER 

he pleasant and youthful life of college and enter ... 
IE BJISJr&U: OF 






The Observer/J<evln Dalum  
nd Saint Mary's must alter its  
bove is the youthful spirit of  
'Ly-unit spirit of tomorrow.  


Of course, things could not possibly bfl right {i.e. morally acceptable) without marriage. So, one must prepare for years 30-39 by adequately finding a mate during the late 20s. During the 30s, it is necessary 
l 
. , first of all to commit to a relationship. Then, if desired, one can go through a courtship period in which one can make sure that the chosen mate is indeed Mr. or Ms. Hight. But there may be some out there who might want to marry their college sweethearts. Perhaps, since most of the graduates to whom this guide applies come from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, these college j sweethearts also come from Saint Mary's and Notre 1 Dame. With the end of one's collegiate career requir­ing a transfer to some kind of life decision-mode, it might seem the perfect time for these couples to com­I mit to marriage. This is wrong. 
I 
i A couple must realize that people change after col­
l lege, just as they changed after high school. So one
I;must beware of the consequences of such quick com­mitment. One must wait for their 30th birthday until such commitment is plausible. To get married, one has many options concerning
j their wedding arena and presiding officer. They include a courthouse wedding with a Justice of the Peace, a boat wedding with a captain, a church wed­ding with some kind of priestly figure or, of course, a Las Vegas wedding with an Elvis impersonator. Any of these will suffice when it comes to making that ball-and-chain official. 
The best place to start manufacturing the kids that make a family complete is during the honeymoon, which should follow the wedding immediately. With a honeymoon, the happy adult couple can enjoy a weekend. a week, or a couple of weeks of steamy, insatiable love-making. One may also call this sex or consummation, but inevitably, it is procreation. 
Nine months later, a baby should pop out of the female partner of the marriage. Considering that the Class of 1999 enters adulthood in the midst of what some people call "progressive" times, it would be wise for the male and female partners to share the duties of raising their offspring. This will ensure both security between the married couple and within the entire family, as the heavy responsibility of raising a child will at least be fair, and each child will know both mother and father as equal members of a family unit. 
Pertinent references here would be "Mad About You" and "Home Improvement." The family situations presented in these shows are perfection. 
"The Brady Bunch" and "Who's the Boss," on the other hand, are terrible models for the perfect family. as the unorthodox creation of the family situation ­consolidating two families with different hair colors, and inviting a New Yorker maid with Alyssa Milano as a daughter to be a father figure -do not comply with this guide to life. 
So graduates, look forward to getting married, hav­ing moral sex and making babies during the thirty­something decade. 
The Downward Spiral 
During the 40s, a person can look forward to watching his or her kids grow up into teenagers. This will cause stress. One must only remember one's own adolescence to realize the gravity of raising a teenag­er. 
Then, one August afternoon, the Class of 1999 will drive down the Indiana Toll Road and into South Bend. After taking that reminiscent glimpse of the Dome or the Le Mans Tower, the legacy will continue as freshman orientation repeats itself, this time with the Class of 1999 on the other side of the emotional washing machine that comes during that weekend. 
After this point of separation, parents become dual loners in a downward spiral through middle age, in which flashy red cars become central, and into senior citizenship where a dependence on Depends is an unfortunate possibility. 
Then comes death, in which all remember the per­fect life which each member of the Class of 1999 lived through with this guide to life. So read this carefully. and take each word for truth. as it is sure to bring about happiness and satisfaction throughout the entirety of l 999's graduating classes. 
¦ 8cene ASKS ... 

DESCRIBE YOUR EXPERIENCE AT SAINT MARY'5 IN THREE WORDS. 

"Transparent dan­gling carrots." 
Anne Baughman 
Le Mans Hall 
"Chem-1s-· try. " 
Andrea Guyon 
Le Mans Hall 

... 


"Money well-spent." 
Amber Fraiser 
Holy Cross Hall 
"Change. Growth. Persistence." 
Molly Donnellon 
McCandless Hall 



"Challenging. Frustrating. Feminism. " 
Molly Hodak 
Le Mans Hall 
"Senior Bar Pumpies." 
Colleen Murphy 
Le Mans Hall 

The Observer/Kevin Datum 

page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 14, 1999 
¦ FENCING 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Led by senior captains Stephane Auriol. Luke LaValle, Tim Monahan, Nicole Mustilli and Nicole Paulina, Notre Dame finished the regular season as the second-ranked men's team and the third-ranked women's team and went on the claim its fourth straight second place fin­ish at the NCM Championships.. 
The men's team relied on a combination of young talent and experienced leadership to post a 22-1 record and a perfect 12-0 in the conference. 
Freshmen Gabor Szelle and Andre Crompton combined with captain LaValle and senior Steven McQuade to form the top sabre team in the country. These four fencers combined for 172 wins and only 18 defeats. 
At the NCAAs, Szelle and LaValle earned 32 points -five more than any other school. Szelle claimed second place in the tournament and earned first-team All-American honors. LaValle also earned All­American honors for the fourth time in his career. 
A.uriol and junior Chas Hayes represented the foil team at the NCAA Championships. Aurio1 and Hayes struggled on their first day of competition before bouncing back on the second 
Classifieds 

day to score critical points for the Irish. Hayes won live of his nine bouts on the second day, while Auriol won six of nine bouts to rally thP foil team to a seventh•place finish. 
The epee team featured junior James Gaither and freshman Brian Casas. Casas was a solid prescence for the Irish all season and claimed second-team All­American honors at the NCAA Championships. Gaither, whose late season success at the Midwest Championships and Regionals earned him a NCM bid, finished 14th on the day. 
The women's team had a suc­cessful regular season as well. Going 19-4 overall and 11-2 in the Midwest, the women's team entered the 1999 NCAA Championships with four NCM­experienced fencers and hopes for a first-place finish. 
Despite All-American efforts from Mvriah Brown, Sara Walsh, Magda Krol and Mustilli, the Irish were unable to defeat Penn State and finished second for the fourth-straight year. 
Walsh and Brown each earned All-American honors for the fourth-straight year, becoming only the second and third women in Notre Dame fencing history fo be honored four times. 
Mustilli earned All-American accolades for the second time, while Krol was named an All­
·:1::iilK$.TORE BASKETB,ALt~~''' 
Mfilicious Prosecution ·wins !99 tournament 
ByKEJlRY SMITH deadly shooting kept the con­Sports Writer test close. The two teams exchanged baskets for most of 
·ij1 ~ ;r4tQ-~soaked wiµ-ttament th~ first half before Malici.ous that,C:ltew 581 teams at the. Prosecution made several key start, the 1999 Bookstore plays on a 6-0 run to seal the · Baskeiball tournament fea­lead and clinch the win. tured severa.l talented teams, Cole came up big for nurn.erQus upsets and many Malicious Prosecution, scoring 
·• surpfisBs. . .. eight pojnts and tallying seven 
· "ThJs is the highest quality rebounds. Haigh added five set of top-32 teams I've seen in points and six rebounds in the my four years," said senior victory, head commissioner Brendan "Malicious Proseeution was Poe before the. tournament unbelievable," said Dillon after 
·begani'''Teams thatare ranked Versatility's loss. "There was in thisyear's l0-20spots are nothing more we could have teams that normally would be done. I don't think they missed consid¢red final four con• a shot all day. We battled, but telld¢rfin other years," it just wasn't.our day." 
Despitedt ta1ented field of ln other tournament high­·rante'.~" t¢,tms: lf'was an lights, hew Irish men's head 
unrarikf'ld and ·virtually basketball coach Matt Doherty unknown team that made the teamed up with five seniors ­tournament inJeresting. Jed D'ercole, Rich Stasica, 
American for the third time. Vers tJlity,. with team captain Jesse Bolder, Ted Romaine and The finals of the women's foil anti · ·•tMpi J\ll~~p9kstor~ Tom Kilroy -to form Lebo's at the Midwest Conference 
'..Ch.r i '\' , .Hin; fi.rst~team Alh Legonds. Doherty's appearance Championships provided one of Bool(store John Hiltz; second• in Bookstore Basketball, while the most dramatic moments in te~ Nl-BookstortfJoe Lillis, fleeting as the team lost in the the entire season. The Irish bat­.Jason/Childress and James Round of 128, drew some of tled the Buckeves of Ohio State J.:q~, ,upstit t1yei ranked d1e biggest crowds of the. tour­
down to the fin~l bout. te < i.pclgl.iJ;P~ !OPfra.nkeg nament 
With the Irish leading by one .er·.... .....,,.,..'on it$ way to the· Doherty maYhave lost on the 
bout, senior Gina Couri stepped 
··cha· nship round before court, he proved to be a win­onto the strip. If she lost the its match ir(the form ner in the eyes of the student bout, the match would be tied -ranked M~licious body. 
and the Buckeyes would win the OD.· "I think it was groat of coach title on tie-breakers. Despite the $'Flt (led by to come out here and play With pressure, Couri calmly disposed c ndl nfMVP us," said Stasica. "It shows the of her opponent 5-2 to win the •· Jer~niy>Cole, alo:ngJvith first­students just what kind of title for the Irish. te a.rit J\ll•Bookstore Jamey coach he is going to be. He's 
In the end, this year's seniors Ha · · second-team All-really down-to-earth and displayed leadership skills that w::i..nts to get to know the stu­
~ !oh eth, Jay
overshadowed their impressive d¢Pts. It's going to be a fun
d~l :CP4fY,athletic successes. Yers::i. ..···•·.••··,..·Jo•come time here during his career." 
While Paulina and Monahan th a perfect wurna­FolJowing the tournament, didn't qualify for the NCM tour­cord and the 1999 the Bookstore Basketball com­nament, they gave their strong Basketb mission awarded many players leadership qualities to the team; Wi.th. individual .honors. Senior 
Paulina captained the women's said llii~.fi.rnetline star Raam Jani foil squad and Monahan cap­a. titll:'i, earned the 19.99 Mr. Bookstore tained the men's epee squad. gin t,1i\tourna-title. an honor that is given to a Both squads won the Midwest pro-player who continues the tradi­Conference Championship by win tions of the tournament. defeating opponents that had µav~•· '"We give thi~ avva.rd to S()Jllit
previously beaten the squads. Whoexemplifies the spiriJ
Auriol, Mustilli and LaValle e pit~ .... .. ookstore Basketball," said each captained their respective cious Poe.. "lt goes to someone who's squads as well. each always out on· the courts play~ 
Combining for over 1,800 wins ing ,and talkirlg about basket­
and 12 All-American honors, the . 11, J'hisytaar we gaveJt to class of 1999 set a standard of .. · · and without a doubt, he excellence that future Irish fenc­deserves it." 
ing teams will look to equal. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
3-6 BDRM HOMES. SUMMER OR  Rollaway twin bed. Like new.  For all of you proud Notre Dame  Congrats, Celia!  Staff,  
NOTICES  FALL.FURN. STARTING $185/mo/person 272-6551  $60. 246-1668  and Saint Mary's graduates that will be in either South Bend or Chicago  Con Amore, from Lyons 2B.  Thanks for having patience, And I will see you all in the fall.  
1992 Toyota ·Tereel  over the next week, you're in luck if  SPOON­ -Revers  
Lost:  100 CDs that were in a black  House For Rent.  low mileage, in great condition  you  like  music.  UMPHREY'S  I'll miss your ugly mug.  
CaseLogic carrying case.  Lost in  Walk to Campus!!  $4500, call 271-5626  McGEE will be having 2 CD release  Best of luck.  HAG, Brian and MAC,  
LaFortune the night of 2126/99.  4-5 Bedroom.  parties, one this Wednesday night,  I still cal'l'I believe they let you be  Thank you. We've got gigantic  
Monetary reward being offered if ~und. No questions asked.  Summer or Fall. Call 289-4712  PERSONAL  May 19th al the Madison Oyster Bar in South Bend, and one on  an RA.  -Laura  shoes to fill but amazing footsteps to follow.  
Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any  Sunday night May 23rd at Schuba's  Good luck.  
info.  IT'S NOT TOO LATE!!!!  Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in  in Chicago. If you can't make either  HAC- And remember to stop back to toast  
A newly remodeled 5 bedroom  LaFortune.  FAX  Sending and  of those, their new live CD recorded  You taught me to Quark .. , and so  The 0.  
Large. double pocket L.L  Bean  house is still available to rent for the  Receiving· 631-FAX1  last November will be available at  much more. I'll miss you, dude.  MK, SR, LP  
backpack w/ Pietasters patch. $50  fall semester. 2 fall baths.washer  South Band's and Chicago's Orbit  -Laura;)  
cash reward if returned w/contents.  and dryer, huge rec room, securily  MOVING? LET US HELP!  Music locations, Best Buys, Barnes  Missy:  
No questions asked.  system. Call not to take a look. 277­ 1 piei;e to a house lull. 286-7094  and Noble and Bordres retailers.  It  Anne M., Kraly and Noreen ­ Here's to all the forgotten flowers,  
call 634-1061  0636  was also be available at all Chicago  Thanks tor putting together a tough  all the blown birthday ads, and your  
ADOPTION-So. Cal cple  Tower Records locations.  Thanks  paper this week. You guys rock.  continuing request for classifieds. It  
.....  WANTED  B&S for ND parents. Football week• ends. Lovely home. Sunnyrnede  looking to adopt newborn, Love · outdoors/animals,  for all of your support and don't for­get to check our website for upcom­ Derek- has been the best two years. three months, and six days of my life. I  
area. Close to campus. Call for  stable.devoted & financially secure.  ing summer East Coast lour dates  Thanks for getting me into The  hope that I never come down from  
Looking for a really great summer  brochure. Alice (219)282·2241.  Will help w/expenses Can  and other future stuff.  The website  Observer, giving me all the advice  the cloud you've put me on, and I  
sitter for 3 really great kidsl Flexible hours with perks! Call Ruth 277-6697  L FOR SALE  provide comtort,support & unde1'6tanding.Process legal & confidential Call toll free (1-888) 756-0667 pin #4195  is at www.umphreys.com  this year, and for your way with women. Won't be the same around here next year. Good Luck.  wish you all the best this summer. May you be the captain of your club football team, Love, Kevin.  
Two  ND  grads  need  a  great  NEW Rates Phone Cards  Karynn/Chris  SABOR  LATINO  -Tim  
babysitter  for  our  school-age  282 min. $20 call 258-4805  congratulates all the seniors  Kathleen, Kristi and Sarah ­ 
kids.afternoons in May and into the  THE FLORIDA EVANS SHOW­ and invites you all to a  Thanks for making working at the  
summer.Close to  1980 Triumph convertible  BAND AND REVUE  free concert and dance  PQ- Observer so much fun. Congrats  
campus.232-5790.  $3,500 (277-2684)  17 song cd is out nowl!!!  Godspeed, you Eurotrash man.  and good luck.  
one hundred copies sold in the first  Saturday May 15, 1999  Have a blast. Don't lose your voice  --Mark DeBoy  
FOR RENT  COUCH/CHAIR 272-6551  four days!!! $5$5$5$5$5$5$5$5$5$5$5  LaFortune ballroom 9pm-1 am  (what would you do for money then?) and remember that cool ring  Leaving on a jet plane, don't know  
88 VW Fox GL $2,500 (John 271­ Point is, get it now, because time is  (band plays 10-12)  I got you in Peru as you embark on  when I'll be back again...  
Walk to school  7961)  running out.  To get onlt, stop a  come say goodbye to  a summer of travels (everybody  
All size homes  band member on campus, call 273­ Brian, Luvin, Phil,  likes presents).  Carey--thanks for being my "big sis­ 
Starting at 185/monthlperson  NoShoreClub condo. 2BR  9795 , or email curreri. 1@nd edu  Alika and Danjuma!  ter!'' I couldn't have made it through  
MMMRENTALS@aol.com  I.SBA. Deck, Garage.  (219)246­ and we'll work it out.  They are  SABOR  LATINO  Love Always,  freshman year without you! Yeah,  
232-2595  1668.  being sold at Lula's, as well.  mk  CT! Love, Noreen  

Frid.1y, May 14, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 25 
-' 
I 
I 
I 
I 
Football 
continued from page 44 
IPd by llPkP CoopPr ;111d .Jimmy 1-'riday camP up with a stop lhaf kc•pl. aliv(' th<• Irish lw1w for a major howl i11vilalion. 
"Wl11•n you can slop a 1.:iOO­v a nl rushPr !Cloud I !'our ~!might linws insicfr your own fivci-va rd Ii 111•. s1111w hod v is looking out l'or you." said .., P n ior r I' n\i v1· r l'vl a I(' o Im .lohnson. 
Ttw :rn-o virtory o\'nr Navy was thl' clay l)pnson put his !Will<' in lllP l'Pf'ord books. llis l07 va rrls -llw 22nd lime lw has ·su rpassPd Uw 100-yard ha r r iPr i11 his can•I! r -put liim ahPud of' i\/11'11 l'inkcU as flw all-tinw !f\ading rusher in NotrP llanw history. 
"Thi' grPaLPst thing about gc•Ui11g this n•rnrd is that il's a tPam r1•cord, so111cthi11g WI' f'an all sharP... sairl ll1•nson. "I'm l'ortunat(• to lrnv1• a cast lil,1• I do." 
Tl11• final honw game• o!' llw s1•aso11 pitfrd Llw 11i11th-rnnknd Irish against a talnnlnd LSU TigPrs squad. /\lt.lwugh llw Irish r,UlH' hack from a two­Lout'hdown d11li('.it to post a :N­:lf1 vii·tory ov1•r tlw Tig1•rs. il was tlw final 111orn1•11ls thal Wl'n' must ll1P!l11irahlP. 
With thrP1' sf•n11Hls rc~main­ing ill 1lw ganw .Jackson was hil l1y TigPr li1whal'kPr Arnold l\1il1Pr and strong safety Cl a r c •11 (' " I.<' B l a n (' wh ilP att<impt.ing lo PXl'C'LIL<' a sal'nly in lllf• 1•ndzo1w. Tlw s1i11inr qt1arlPrhark su!Tnrl'd nwdial rnllaLPr.LI ligamPnt damagP ill his k111•p that would sidnlinc­him Llw nnxl wPnk against. USC and S(~rvPrnly limit him in till' bowl gamo. 
"It's all about .larious. That's what I fpef. l just fonl had for him," said DaviP l'ollowing thn gamP. "I nwan. lrnre's a kid who plays his heart out. run­ning quarlnrl.mck draws and 1·ounlnrs and all thosP things, and lw g11ts hurt taking a safo­

Senior tailback Autry Denson pr1mces into the endzone during Notre Dame's 35-28 loss to Georgia Tech in the Toyota Gator Bowl in Jacksonville, 
.. 

Fla. Denson and the rest of the senior class were 0-3 in bowl appearances during their careers. 
Ly at the end of the game." against the Trojans in a 10-0 
The duo of junior Eric defeat. Chappell and f'rcshman Arnaz The loss against the Trojans Battle could not replace denied Urn Irish any chance of .Jackson the next week against playing in the Bowl USC. The Irish were unable to Championship Series, but their amount a threatening offense postsoason chances were not 

SABOR LATINO 
would fike to congratulate all tire ND and SMC Seniors on your graduation, and thank you for all the great support yo11 have given us in tlte past four years! You are a major reason why we have been so successful, and we have enjoyed every performance for you! 
Come dance all night before you graduate! Free concert for Seniors, Parents, and friends 
Saturday May 15, 1999 9 pm -1 am 
Ihand will play JO pm -midnight, DJ music provided) 
The Ballroom LaFortune Student Center 
Come say ROodhye to 
Phil Erskine, Brian Tomcik, Alika Hope Bryant, Danjuma Gaskin, A. Luvin Villarreal 
We're sad to see you go, hut we w;,\•h you tire very hest1!! 
completely erased. The Irish accepted an invitation to the Toyota Gator Bowl in Jacksonville, Pia., on New Year's Day against Georgia Tech. 
Donning green jerseys for the first time since the 1995 Fiesta Bowl, the Irish battled the Yellow Jackets before suc­
cumbing. 35-28.  It  was  an  
end of an  era for  a  group of  
talented seniors,  one  which  

saw them leave without a sin-
lnt~rhall S"cccr 
Firmm:c Prn.1cc1;; 

·.·.•~ ...~
'·•··• .-.,JII"'
~-=~-·-' 
gle bowl victory. While tho seniors nover achieved post­season success. they did help lay the foundation for a strong Irish program in the future . 
"I think I the program I is in good hands with tlw coaches and the guys that are coming back," said tri-captain Miko Rosenthal aftPr thr loss to Georgia Tech. "Thc•y are guys that know how to work, know how to win and know how to get things done." 
Jonathan Polking, 
1;et out r?f'that chair.' A.Jiemoon naps... Don't you dare.' It\ time for the real world­and making so111e money. Gotta sm·e.f<,r the/i1ture ­and l(f'e with _\'Otll' honer. 

So for 110w, graduation and hest wishes too. (11·.i,y(1 memories 11·ill a/wars be with rou. 
Apl',l ,lCl,l . . 
M,rss Lector Off-Cmnpu, Softhull 
Lol'e and prayer.\',

Spec·ial Olympic, Co,.d1 Dean's Li,1 
Vimr Fmnil\' 

page 26 The Observer. SPORTS Friday, May I4, 1999 
.. ¦ WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Portland boots Notre Dame from NCAA tourney 
Hy BRIAN KESSLER nn Nov. 24 and ,inded NotrP tlrn ball at the right time and Sport• Edi,or Dame's season, as well as its they didn't." 45-gamfl home unbeaten Jirnior .Jennv lldt, who set 
,\ftrr making four-straight streak, with a 2-1 victorv. Tho the singlc-se,ison record for NCAA semifinal appearances. Irish had won the las"t fivn goals scornd with 28, had the the luck of the Irish finally ran mePtings betwePn the two soc­lmrn scorn for the Irish in the out on the Notre Dume cer powerhouses, but that day game. Portland sophomore women ·s soccer tt~am this sea­I.Jelonged to the Pilots. Vanessa Talbot made lhe dif­son. "This tinw it was our turn," fl•rnnce in the game, scoring 
The Irish repeated as Big said Portland head coach Clive the game winner with less than East champions for the fourth­Charles following tho game. "In three minutes remaining in Urn consecutive season. but came the past few years, Notni Dame contf'st. up jusL one wiu shy of yet got tlrn breaks. We have lost iu While the Irish didn't reach anotlrnr Final Four apµearance. rn~arly every conceivablE' way to tlwir goal of getting back to the Portland came lo Alumni field lhem. Today. we got our foot on NCi\A Championship game, the 
season was still a success. The Irish suf'fored a disappointing 5-l loss to top-ranked North Carolina early in September and had a midseason set back with a 3-2 loss to unranked Seton Hall. but still went on to win 20 games for the fifth­straight season. Notre Dame defeated top-set~ded host Connecticut l -0 in the Big East championship game to claim their fourth-straight conference tille. 
Sophomore Anne Makinen scored the only goal of the game with less than 10 minutes left to play. She was named tlrn tournament's most outstanding player for the second-straight season and was later named a finalist for the Herman Trophy. tion at Texas. Irish !wad coach in the pro­
Senior Monica Gerardo "He took a 11edgling program gram's history. enjoyed another successful sea­and built it into a national "I am looking forward to the son for the Irish, Sfltting the power," said athletic director challr!nge and making tl1P school record for career goals Mike Wadsworth. "We am change," said Waldrum, who 
(73) and points (190). grateful to him for the contri­Jp,d the Bears to their l'irst-ever 
Seniors Gerardo, Shannon butions he has made during his Big Twelve: championship. Boxx and Laura Vandenberg nine years at Notre Dame." "Chris Petrucelli did a great job wi.11 all be missed, but the Irish Those accomplishments and those are tough shoes to suffernd its biggest loss when Include a 175-22-10 record and IiiI." two-time national coach of the the 1995 National Waldrum recently named year Chris Petrucelli Championship. Tulsa head coach Amy announced on Dec. 31 that he Baylor's Randy Waldrum has Edwards to his staff. Edwards was leaving Notre Dame to accepted the challenge of fol­played and siffved as an assis­accept the head coaching posi-lowing Petrucelli as the third tant·Lmder \,\'aldrnm. 


Irish spike Hoyas for fourth-straight title 
By BILL HART Pittsburgh and later falling to Associare Spom Editor West Virginia on the final day of conference play. 
Heading into the 1998 sea­The loss pushed the team son, the Notre Dame volleyball down to third place in the Big team had big shoes to fill. East, but thev were able to 
The departure of four finish off the "regular season seniors, including two honor­with a 3-0 win over Toledo. able mention All-Americans, The team's success during would be a difficult loss for the season was reflected in anv team. The Irish, however, the Big East regular season were able to return to their awards. Senior captain usual prominence, winning Lindsay Treadwell captured a the Big East tournament and spot on the conference first advancing to the second team, while sophomore Christi round of the NCAA tourna­Girton captured second team ment. honors. Frcsh'mcn Marci 
While the Irish had a tough Bomhack and Kristi Kreher, time in a tournament-heavy took spots on the Big East all­first half of the season, the rookie team, more than any team got back on track when other school. the Big East regular season While the Irish were in the approached. The Irish started unfamiliar role of a three-seed off the season with wins over in the conference tournament. Seton Hall and Hutgers, but they battled their way to an saw their 78-match confcr­unprecedented fourth-consec­C'nce winning streak halted uti ve tournament title. with a five-game loss to Following an outstanding Conner.lieut. The streak was comeback from a.n 0-2 deficit the second longest in NCAA against Connecticut. Notre history and dated back to Dame soundly defoatNI top­1991. seed Georgetown :3-0 in the 
Notre Dame quickly got championship game. Bomhack back on track with conference was named tournamrrnt MVP, wins over St. John's, averaging 3.3 kills and 3.3 Providence and Boston digs per game over thA week­College. The Irish finished out end. defending national champion thing from being here." ranks in the top 10 in 11 other 0Clober in style with a 3-1 The pustseason run gave the Stanford in three games. The Treadwell capped off a career categories. win over Syracuse at the Irish a chance to continue loss finished the season off tremendous senior year by While the loss of Treadwell Joyce Center that gave head their season at the NCAA with an 18-13 mark. being selected to the 1998 and Audra Duda to graduation 
coach Debbie Brown her tournament in Stanford, Calif. "Overall the season was GTE Academic All-District V will be a sad sight for many 200th-careor win at Notre ln tho tournament, Notre very good," Brown said after women's volleyball l'irst team Irish fans, the guidance and Dame. Dame defeated Eastern the game. "We had a lot of as well as the AVCA All­aid thBy have given to a tal­
The Irish kept up their Washington in the first round ups and downs, but the team District team. ented but relatively inexperi­chase fur the regular season in four games, 15-2, 13-15,15-persevered when others Treadwell holds the Notre enced squad should helµ the title until late in the season. 11, 15-11, before falling to would have just folded. Dame record for career-hit­Irish rear.h new heights in defeating Georgetown and eighth-ranked host and Hopefully, we'll learn some-ting percentage (.293) and upcoming seasons. 

r----~-----------~--------------------------------------­
hiday, May 14, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 27 
¦ Hoct<EV 
Irish come up one win shy of NCAA tourney berth 

-
The Obse,ver/Kev,n Oalum 

Notre Dame had its first winning season in eight years as it compiled a 19-14·5 record, including wins over Michigan and North Dakota. 
By TED BASSANI Sports W titer 
During the 1998-99 college hockey season, Nolre Damo put its nanrn back on tho map and into the 11alio11al rankings. thanks in large part to six t.al­<~ntod and dndicated seniors. 
Benoit Cotnoir, Aniket Dharlphaln, Scott Ciiuliani, Craig I!agkull, Forrest Karr cl.ml Brian Urick hnlped lead t.lrn Irish to its l'irsl winning season in oighl y,mrs (19-14-:i). By posting an i111p1·cssiv1\ ·t 5-'11-4 mark in the CCI IA, Notre Dame achieved its sfiason-long goal of earning homo ico for thn first round of' the CCI IA playoffs and linislwd jnst one win shy of tlrn first NCAA tournament bid in school history. 
In addition to providing the on-ice heroics and off-icu lead­ership nocessary to achieve loam goals, this y<'ar's graduat­ing class also set a new stan· dare! in Notrn Dame hockey for individual achievement. 
Del'onseman Cotnoir became just the s,wenth Irish player in history to earn All-America honors, and the first since 1983. Cotnoir was also the first Notre Dame player <wor given First Team All-Conforonco hon­ors in the CCIIA. in acl<lition to earning llonorablo Mention on Urn confnrnnco·s All-Acadr.mic Ti:Jtm. 
Lef't wing Dhadphale earned All-1\cadomic llonors in thn CCIIA aflnr earning llonorablo lvfontion his junior season. Dhadphale also finished his Notre Dame earner fifth on the school's all-timn list with 2!i power play goals. 
Team captain Urick l'inislrnd second on the team and eighth in the CCI IA with 41 points. a S<lason good enough to oarn him l·lonorahln Mention m1 tho All-Confernnce Team. Urick leaves Notre Damn a mmnhor of the prestigious 50 goals/50 assists dub, and his 13 career game-winning goals leaves hin1 first all-time in that category along with current Irish head coach Dave Poulin. 
Goaltender Karr earned COIA All-Academic Honors as well as being selected an Academic All­Arnerican. While logging tho second-most minutes in school history for one season, Karr's 
2.58 goals-against average stands as tho lowest singl<'-sea-
New college grads wanted for 
upward caree~~ 

move. ,~ --· 
Save$4QO. 
CaravanIntrepid 

Drive agreatvehicle. Intangible benefits. 
Right now, recent college graduates get $400 off every new Dodge.* Comhine that with other current offers on some of these models, and you could save· even more. Ask a salesperson for details. 

A1•e11ger 

Ram Q11ad Cab"' 
l@]The New Dodge 
See The Friendly Dodge Dealer NearYou 
*Ask for eligibility requirements. Not available with certain other offers. 
son total in modern Notni Danrn history. Ilis careor mark of' 2.89 also stands lirst all-tinw. 
In order to ass1~ss tlw impor­tancn of' his first class in llrn overall sdwrno of' his program, lrnad coach l>avn Poulin staLPd that it doesn't all como down to numbers and awards. 
"I look at tlw on-icn factors, but I look at the off-icn ltiadnr­sli ip as wnll," Poulin said. "I look al a playnr like Scott Giuliani, who was abln to play an extrnmnly diff'irnlt roln for four yPars. and that is of' t.lw support playnr who doe:m't g<~L a lot of' Lhn glory of playing in ganws. I look at Craig I lagkull, who played a lot early in his earner and loss later on, which is maybt\ even moro dif'licult." 
By season's find, those two roln players each got Lhnir chance to contribute. (;iuliani got a start at forward in thn most crucial game of tlrn rngu­lar season -Llw homo f'inaln against. Northnrn Mil'higan ­Notre Dame's closest rival in the standings. llagkull notched an assist on tlrn go-ahead goal in the single bigg<~st win in school history against No. I North Dakota. 
When tlrnse six seniors arrived four years ago, a goal of' home ice in the CCIIA playoffs or of a possibln NCAA Tournament bid would havn been considcrnd unattainable. 
"It was a group that madn thn decision to come to Notre Dame when the program was at a very diff'ernnt stage, and yet they were able to Ill ent tlrn expectations that increased considerably," Poulin said. 
Following up on two nine-win campaigns in their f'rnshman and sophomore seasons, this senior class helped lead tlw loam to !'our wins ovnr NCAA Tournament-bound tliams in their junior year. 
Last season, the team man­aged four wins in five tins against teams that went on Lo the NCJ\As, including a road tin versus [then] No. I Boston College and a road victory ver­sus No..1 North Dakota -thf! first win in Notre Dame hocknv history against a top-rankllcl opponent. Following the win over North Dakota in early January, the Irish got back on track by going 4-1 · I in the next six games, before what would become tlrn biggest honw ganrn in our four years: tlw Michigan game. 
Af'ter taking a 2-0 lnad into the third period against tlw defending national champions, the Wolverinns clawnd back Lo tie tlrn game midway through the third. Th<'n, with 4:42 remaining and tlw powPr play winding down, Aniknt Dhadphalo's rPbound goal gaw the Irish a hugn :~-2 win ovnr their rivals f'rom Ann Arbor. 
What this class will IH• rnnwmberecl f'or most is l'or fi'nally giving Notrn Damn a national t·ont<•mlnr in tlw sport of hockny. IloWPVl'I', as coach Poulin point<~d out. tlwir accom­plishments as a group amount to much morP than just wins on the icn. 
ND • SMC • ND • SMC • ND 
Bed 'N Breakfast Registry 
-The Premier Regislry Since 1983 ­
Try the Option! 
"Homt• A way from Home".lt. l'fffl'nfm.. .,.. 
... The Irish i!INi!l.It.~ymhol of' Approval .,.. 211/-291-715.1 
Fa~ 211/-2'11-l lKS 
http://business.rn1chiana.org/bnbreg/ 

page 28 The Observer• SPORTS friday, May 14, 1999 
¦ WOMflv'S BASKETBALL 
• Best regular season in history ends in early NCM exit 
By ANTHONY BIANCO eighth-ranked Irish drew a No. at the hands of' the I luskies. The A.sociare Spom EJiror 5 seed in the West entering into Irish foll to 0-9 all-time against the championships. The Irish the Huskies. 
For a team that built a strong were> nnne too pleas<'d that LSU, Unable to replicate their non­postseasnn in recent years -ranked No. 18 in the AP polls ~ conference start. the Irish began threl' straight NCAA. tournament thf' time of the seedings, was the Big East season in a rut that berths. a firsHwer Final Four given a spot above the Irish and saw '.'lotrc Dame barely get by a appearance in 1997 and a run homecourt advantage for the mediocre Villanova team (63­to tlm Sw(wt 16 in 1998 -the first two rounds. 62) and then end December 1999 Irish will lJe most uotmi for "I don't think Lhere is any with a 78-65 loss to Boston thrir rrgular-sf':ason accom­question that the selection cnm­College. plishments. mittce shows favoritism and we The changeover into 1999 was 
Despite amassing a 23-3 regu­need to stop that," McGraw said. like night and day for the Irish. lar-sPason rerord. orn• of' Notre "If we're playing at home. we're as they raced out of the slump Damt>·s bt>st-ever squads was moving on." with an 11-game winning streak unable to n•alize similar success The early exit from another and refocused the Irish pir,ture in tlw postseason. '.'loeding an run to the Sweet 16 was made of a run in th<' conference and I I-2 run against 12th-seeded even more sour considering the national championships. Saint l\1arv's in the final five road the Irish traveled. They set McGraw and her team were cer­minutrs to ·win their first-round the tone with a stretch of non­tain that this was one of the best contest in tlw NCAA tourna­conference wins, including teams to take the court al Notre ment the Irish were unable to against then-No. 6 UC.LA (99-Dame. slip by tSl'.JtW(')·d~ys latP.r. 82). then-No. 6 Duke (84-57). 13ut again, another top 13ig 
Turnovers lt:>d the Irish to a anrl then-No. 25 Illinois -all in East foe foiled the Irish run. this 74-64 loss to the Tigers and a span of 10 days. The. season time in the form of the Scarlet forced their earliest cxil from was made all the more promis­Knights. Hutgers halted the the tournament since 1996. ing by the strength of Notre Notre Dami': streak at 11 as the After averaging 19 turnovers Dame's schedule and the early Knights made sure that the Irish per game all season. coach successes. A :1-0 start pushed would have no parl in the lop Muffet McGraw's squad the Trish into the top 10 with a two conference spolc:;. amassed 27 against a quicker seventh-place ranking, tying the Instead, the Irish entered the brought what we had tonight." naled the Big East. They defeat­and more dominant LSU school's all-time record. Hig East tournament in The Irish op1mcd up the first ed tlw Irish for the sccond time defense. "We've looked at this season February as the No. 3 seed half with 43 points against a this season in the conference 
"We hurt ourselves," McGraw as a season of opportunity," said behind Connecticut and Rutgers. Rutgers defense that had not championship (!11 routn to their said after the game. "We had McGraw after the UCLA game. Villanova scrwd as the warm­allowed more than 35 poinlc:; in sixth-straight title. handing the too many turnovers and poor "We looked at our schedule and up for Notre Dame in its 11rst the first half all season. Irish a 96-75 loss. free throw shooting. We're one every time we turn around game in the tournament as McMillen and Ivey led the way Despite the earlier-than­of the best free throw shooting we're playing another ranked Notre Dame played to an 83-53 with seven three-pointers in the planned exits from the postsea­teams in America and we were team. We feel that for us to be win and a trip to rematch half, giving the Irish a 43-28 son, the best-ever frish record missing them." ready in March we have to see Rutgers in the semifinals. The midpoint lead that they never speaks for itself', as do the indi­
Hut the stnry was just begin­these teams early. It gives us a loss just two weeks earlier to the gave up. pulling away with a 68-vidual accomplishments of sev­ning as the Irish left Baton chance to see where we are." Scarlet Knights was all the moti­61 win. But it was in this game eral players. Sophomore Ruth Rogue, La., the site of their first­But the Irish were shaken up vation the Irish needed to pull that the Irish lost Ivey for the Riley became the first Irish play­and second-round contests. The after amassing a 6-0 start in off an upset. rest of the postseason when she er to lead a NCAA statistical r,at­Irish expected to be among the their first Big East conference "That motivated us," team suffered a torn ACL. egory with a 68.3 field goal per­top 16 seeds before losing point game. Facing top-ranked captain Sheila McMillen said With three teams in the top 10 centage while McMillen and Ivey guard Niele Ivey to a season­Connecticut at home proved that after the game. "Coming off that nationally -Connecticut, also were among the leaders in ending knee injury in the Big the Irish were not invincible as game we knew we didn't bring Rutgers and Notre Dame -it three-point and free throw per­East tournament. Instead. the they suffered a 106-81 routing our game. But everybody was still the Huskies who domi-centage. 

¦ WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Eight swimmers qualify for NCAA Championships 
By WES RICHARDSON Big East coach of' the year. weights and more dry-land chaos," Kline said. "We didn't in as freshmen for different Spores Writer An unprecedented eight ath­before practice. and it all paid even know we were getting a reasons than Bailey had in letes went o.n to represent off," Kline said. new coach, and we didn't mind." · The Notre Dame women ·s Notre Dame at the NCAA "The best part of season was know what to expect from In the end, the team adopted 
h•

swimming and diving team Championships, where the definitely watching everybody rm. H Weathers' long-term goals of continued to dominate the con­team placed 23rd. Five Irish swim fast in the end and know­That year was also the bringing the team into the f'eren ce by winning the Big athletes turned in All­ing it was all worth it," team's first in the Big East national spotlight. East championship for the American performances. Eckstein agreed. conference. According to Eckstein, it paid third-straight season. Although the Irish expected At the start of their careers "It was h~rd for our class off. 
While the Irish began with to place higher, they were not at Notre Dame, this year's when all of our goals and com­"We've done a complete 180 losses to Stanford and Miami. disappointed with their perfor­seniors faced a challenge when mitment levels hanged," cap­since freshman year, and we the season soon picked up with mances. Weathers was hired in 1995. tain Anne Iacobucci sai·d. "lt know it has a lot to do with victories over Army, Air Force, "A lot of people improved "The first year was almost was hard for us when we came Bailey coming in," she said. Purdue, Pittsburgh and Miami this year, and that's what it's of Ohio. all about," said senior Brittany 
During the next two months, Kline. the women competed in the "Our team was so close this Minnesota, Notre Dame and year," senior Meghan Eckstein iiF======================================-il Rainbow Invitationals, placing said. "We all came together. 

second, third and first. respec­tively. 
The highlight of the season, however, was the third-consec­utive Big East title win. Scoring a record number of points, the Irish set seven team records and six Big East records at the meet. In addition, head coach Bailey Weathers was named 
and because of that, we made so much progress both in and out of the water." 

Aside from new records and improved times, an increased level of training in and out of the pool characterized the sea­son. 
"We really stepped up in our training as far as doing more 


-
Homes for Rent 

• 
Domus Properties has two, five, six and nine bedroom student housing available 

• 
Student neighborhoods close to campus 

• 
Security systems provided 

• 
Well maintained homes 

• 
Maintenance staff on can 


Available for the 1999/2000 school year 
Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509 
friJay, May 14, I 999 The Observer• SPORTS page 29 
¦ SOFTBALL 
Belles overcome changes 
By TRACY HARBOR -"port, Writ~r 
By bnttling through multiple ronching changes and injurios, the Belles softball team has shown that hnrd work does pay off. 
Tho Belles 11nishnd tllu sea• sonl 6-24 overall record and posted a 7 -9 confewncn mark. 
The players hud a rm;ky start in the season, finishing pre­conferonco play wilh nn 8-12 rncord and wins over Concordia. They opened con­ference piny splitting a double• hoadnr against Hope Collegr. 
The next few weuks of con­f'eronce piny were tough. l!ow1wer, the arrival or good woathor signu.Jod tho beginning of a bettPr season for the B1)llcs. They won doublehead­nrs agninst Calvin, Kulamazoo and Goshon, before spliting a doubleheader against Albion in a V(>,ry dose game. 
"This sctLson has had its ups and downs, but I think we have not only lnarmid a lot from mis­lak,is that wo havo mado, but W('. have become a very close knit team." said sophomore pitchM' Anrn, Senger. "We are going to try to end with one last win mid, start looking ahead to the next season. Wo have a lot of talent on this team and we should be tough next year." 
The senior leadPrship from Di1tne AndrlJws and Sarah Martin was especially impor­tant this s,mson. 
Andrews played shortstop and second base throughout Um stiason. Andrews ranked in thn !Clague with a .342 batting 
average and has 13 hits. with live HBI. She played her fresh­man, junior and senior year, starting at almost at every posi­tion :it some point during her earner. 
"I will miss the sport 11. great deal and the girls even more.'' said Andrews. "Alt.hough we have had numoi·ous coaches, whicl1 has basically been a rnller•coaster ride since fresh, man y1H1.r, wo hav() found strength in each other and that is somP.thing ( will never for, 
got.'' 
Mal'tin played outfield throughout the season. Mart.in has been strong defensively and offensively. Sho had l4 Wts with nine RBI and a double for lhe season. 
While the seniors were great leaders, the juniors also played a key role in the Belles success• ful set&son. 
Elsie Hall, a junior who plays outfield throughout the season, batted .316 with two RBl, lour singles, one double and one home run for the season. 
Trish Klockner, a junior play­ing short,;top and second base has been strong offensively and defensively. Klockner had 13 hiL,; including lO RBI, eight sin­gles, four doubles and a home run. 
The sophomores and fresh­men also had many highlights along with several league rank­ings in batting averages and pitching ERA. 
Looking to next season, the . Belles have many strong returning seniors, including both pitchers and a strong defense. 
¦ CROSS COUNTRV{fRACK AND FIELD 
Deeter, teams run to success 
By BRlAN HOBBINS 
Spnm Writer 
It was a season of high and low strides for the men's and women's cross country and track toams during 1998-99. 
The season began in the cool air or tho Midwest autumn, as hoth the men's and women's cross country teams placed first at the Woll' and Kettle Invitational in Elgin. Ill. At that meet, junior JoAnna Deeter led the women's squad with a first­place linish. while sophomon~ Hyau Shay led the men, placing second. 
The following week tho Irish competed at the Naqonal Catholic Championships. pladng first overall in both th_e men's and women's races. Deeter again led the women with a first-place linish while freshman Luke Watson stepped to the forefront for tho men, placing fourlh. 
As the season continued. Deeter proved to be a force to ho reckoned with. She won the next two invitationals the Irish competed in, bt1forc taking sec­ond at the District IV meet. The victory qualil'ied her for the NCAA championships, where she earned All-American status with a 14th-place finish. 
Junior Patti Hice also proved her mettle for the Irish this sea­son, as she was the second Irish runner itcross the line in all but one meet. As a team. the worrn~n finished third at the Big East Championships and fourth at tbe NCAA District IV meet. 
On the men's side, Shay and Watson proved that underclass­men can come right in and compete at the collegiate level, as they were the lirst and sec­ond Irish runners across the line nearly every meet. Shay was the lone Notrn Dame qua!i­f'ie r for the i\'CAA Chall)pionships, placing 229th at the meet in Lawrence, 
Kansas. 

As a team the mon·s squad look a disappointing third at t.he Big East. A week later t.hey nar­rowly missed an at-largn bid for tho NCM Championships, plac­ing eighth at the District IV meet. This marks t.he first time ever 1.hat the men's squad failed to qualify for the NCAAs. 
The track and field teams opened their indoor season 1.hu weekend of Jan. 1 5-1 6 at th11 Purdue Invitational. Junior Marshaun West began his team MVP season by taking first in lwo events -the long jump and t.he 200-meter dash. Senior Mikn Brown also began a suc­cessful campaign in the poln vault, taking first with a leap of 17 feet, 1.5 inches. 
The focal point or the indoor season for the t0.ams was thn Big East Championship•s. The men placed second this year, while the women improved upon a ninth-place finish in 1998 to take third. 
Leading the way for the m01i was West, who took lirst in tho 200-meter dash in an NCAA­qualifying time of 21.42 sec­. nncls. West finished second in tho long jump, also qualifying for NCAAs. Brown claimed the crown in the pole vault for tho third year in a row with a jump of 16 feet, 2 inches. Shay took home a gold in the 3000 meters while placing second in thn 5000. 
On the women's side, Deeter lost a close race in the 5000 to competitor JoAnna Dupree, fin­Is hi ng .70 seconds behind Dupree's winning time. Englehardt placed second in Lim high jump. going 5 foet. 10 inches while Grow took second 
in the 400, running a  time or  
55.56 seconds.  
At  the  NCAA  Indoor  

Championships in Indianapolis, Ind., Deeter placed third in the 5000 with a time of 16 minutes, 
10.16 seconds while West took 
seventh in tlm long jump. with a jump ol' 24 fnnt, IO in elms. Brown tied for sixth in tho nation in tho pole vault. rfoaring 17 font. 1 0 inches. 
Also earning All-Am0.rica sta­tus wnrn Englehardt and Senior Antonio Arce~. Arcn postod a time of' four minutes, l :t:32 sec­onds to take sixth. Englnhardt's jump of 5 feet, 8 inclrns earrwd her 1:Hh place. 
After the NCAA Indoors, tlrn team took a short break before beginning the outdoor soason at the Stanl'ord Invitational. D,iewr made it a grand opening meet as she set tlrn school record in the 10,000 meters, f'inishing fourth at 32:53.95. Senior Nadia Schmicdt was able to rnhound from injuries during the indoor season to take third in both tho 110-meter hm;c;J)1is and llrn 400­mctor hurdles. 
Aft11r over a month of )Jl'(~pa­ration, the Irish traveled to lho Big East Outdoor Championships. They matclwd their Big East Indoor finishes as the mon again took second and the women third. 
Leading the way for tlw men again was West, who took home tho Outstanding Track Performer award af'tnr winning the 200 in 21.53 seconds while taking second in the 100 with a time of 10.72 snconds. West also was part of' Notre Damr.'s fourth-place 400-mnter rnlay team. 
Brown linally was able to cap­ture an outdoor title in the pole vault after finishing fourth last year with a vault or I(1 foot, 4 inchCls. Also runtributing for tlrn Irish was junior Chris Cochran .. who won tlH' 400 in a earner­best timP or -t6.86 soconds. Cochran also placed second in the 200. 1/100 of a second behind \\'pst. 
On thP women's sidn, Englehardt set a meol rncord in the high jump. clearing an impr('ssin, ;'j fPPl, 11.25 inchns. 


The University of Notre Dame Asian Pacific Alumni Board of Directors 
is proud to present the 
1999 Distinguished Student Award 
to graduating senior 

,, 
Chak Kei Woo 
for her outstanding contributions to the campus community., 
Open on Sunday 12 to 9:00 
QCongratulattoms ~rnior5 
~banks for bring part 
of our communttp 
~oob luck tutt1) pour futurt 
Dial Phone Appetit, 674.-0900 Category 8466 for more info. Downtown South Bend 235 S. Michigan St. 
233-1000 
Reservations recommended 
page 30 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, May 14, 1999 
¦ Mrn's 8ASlffTBAlL 
'98-'99 squad falters in Big East 
By BILL HART As,oci:ll~ Spons EdHor 
With the departure of first­round NBA draft-pick Pat Garrity and tlrn arrival of a highly touted freshman class, the Notre Dame' men's basket­ball team began the 1998­1999 season as an inexperi­encrd sqnad. 
Tlw Irish kicked off the sea­son in up-l!\tnpo style with buzzN-boatnr results. Against Yale. a three-pointer by senior raptain Antoni Wyrhe in tho final minute followed by two free throws bv freshmau David Graves with 3.8 seronds on the clock gave the Irish their first victory, (14-62. 
.. 
Six days later, two free throws with one second 
remaining gavA Vanderbilt a close win over the Irish. 
After three dirt1cult games at the Carr's Great Alaska Shootout. an off-balancr. one­hander hy junior Jimmy Dillon pushed a see-saw battle against Indiana into overtime. 
Despite close games with almos1. every opponent, the Irish found themselves at 2-5 with postseason hopes begin­ning to fade. 
AflPr son11i regrouping, a five-game winning streak that included a victory over Providence put the squad back on track heading into confe-r­ence play. Following a loss to Villanova in a rescheduled game. Notre Dame bounced back with a 71-68 victory over Miami snapping a seven-game Hurrirane winning streak. 
The greatest test for the team came in mid-season, 

¦ MEN'S SWIMMING 
, Irish shock Big East, capture 2nd 
ByWES RICHARDSON Sport$ Wrfret 
After a fourth-place finish in 
last year's the Rig East cham­
pionships., the Notro Dame 
men's swimming and diving 
team finished its season on a 
high note and stepped into sec­
ond pla~e in the Big East.'· In addition, Tim Welsh and 
Caiming Xie were named Big 
EMt and diving coach of the 
year, respectively. 

· On their wuy to upsetting 
Syracuse by one point at the 
Big East championships, the 
tnen broke 14 team records. 
included in the 16 they broke 
throughout the season. They 
also achieved three NCAA 
,pha.mpfonship conslderntion 
times. 

"The thing that sums up the 
season as a whole was the last 
relay at Big Rast," captain 
Chris Fugate said of the 400 
freestyle relay that secured 
second place for the Trish in the 
final ser,onds of the mflet. 
'"!'hat was the peak of our sea­
son. to achieve what we 
achieve.d. It all came to a 
height there and it was just 
incredible." 

The team's dual meet record 
of 4-4 would not have led to 
predictions of a second-place 
fmish. The sea.son began with a 
pounding from then-defending 
national champions Stanford. 
•···· The Irish were 2-2 for dual meets heading into December's Notre Dame lnvitational. There, the team set four school records and crushed No.12 
The Zahm Hall Community sends heartiest 
congratulations to our graduating seniors. Know.. of our warmest best wishes and all of 
Florida State to win th,~ meet. 
The seniors were pleased that their four years at Notre Dame ended with a climactic victory at the Big East meet. 
"lt seemed like everyone knew what their job was both in the classroom and in the pool," Mike Doyle said. "Everyone did what it took to go fast." 
Part of the men's success came with a team grade point average of .3.225, the nation's second highest for men's swim teams. 
When rellecting on their four years at Notre Dame, many swimmers noted the difference in attitude as the biggest change. 
"Our freshman year, being on the team was more of a par­tying thing," VincA Kuna said. "Since then we've curtailed the partying and focused on getting faster as a team." 
..I think our team has really focused on getting faster over the years and nrnking u com­mitment to do b1~tter and it's shown," Fugate said. "The cul­ture of the team was elevated to a new level to help it swim faster." 
The senior class in particular is often recognized as initiating the change. 
"Ever since our freshman year, we were really the domi­nant class," captain Steele Whowcll said. "l think the closeness of our class and our leadership skills both in and out of the pool have brought the team to where it is." 

when an anklr. injury kept iroy Murphy on the bench for thrne conference games including a crucial two-game home stand against Seton Hall and ltutgers. 
Despite the loss of their scor­ing leader, several players were able to step up for the Irish. 
In the team's first Murphy­less game against Villanova, freshman Harold Swanagan had a career-high 22 points in an 85-58 loss. Against Pittsburgh, Wyche and Phil Hickey provided enough offense for a 59-56 victory. 
While a 2-4 stretch to close out the season proved damag­ing, the Irish ended the home season on a high note with a 78-59 win over Boston College. Hickey scored a career-high­tying 21 points in his last home game. 
While Irish fans still had NIT hopes alive at Big East tourna­ment time, Seton Hall dashed their dreams as they closed the season with a 79-69 victory over Notre Damr.. 
"We were hoping to make a run in the tournament and probably earn an NIT bid," said Murphy. "I learned a lot this vear and had a lot of fun but it's still disappointing to lose." 
Although they did not get a 
... postseason tournament bid, the Irish did garner their sham of accolades, mostly on the shoulders of Murphy. The freshman was named Big East rookie of ihe year and earned a spot on the Big East all-second team and a unani­mous selection on the confer­ence all-rookie team. Murphy lilied Garrity's shoes well, averaging 18.9 points and 9.7 rebounds per game. The latter statistic made Murphy the first freshman in Big East history to hold the conforence rebounding title. 
The biggest headlines came less than a week after the final game of the season. Head coach John Macleod resigned and Matt Doherty, an assistant at the University of Kansas, was chosen as his replace­ment. 
While the graduation of Hickey and Wyche with follow seniors Dennis Carroll and Paul Rainey will cause a loss of manpower on the squad, the seniors' hard work and dedica­tion is already paying off in the form of an exceptio'nal recruit­ing class. 
Notre Dame basketball's Class of 2003 -Matt Carroll, Mike Monserez and Ivan Kartelo -provide Irish fans with plenty of reasons to be optimistic for the seasons ahead. 

?..r~ 
The Real Enchilada.. 
.... IN TOWN FOR THE SUMMER? 
NE H? 

SERVERS 
HOSTS SUPPORT STAFF FULL/PART TIME 
DON PABLO'S 4160 GRAPE ROAD 
254-9395 

FriJay, May 14, l 999 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 31 

Deloitte 
Consulting 
A very different approach. For vary different results.
Tlllllflt 

,.. II 
I 
I I I I I I 
-iI 


Friday, May 14, 1999

¦ Mcr{S 0ASKHSALL 
Doherty replaces Macleod as men's basketball coach 
Arthur Andersen is proud to announce the following University ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's College students have accepted employment offers to 
Kathryn Abeln, Kansas City Kate O'Scannlain, Chicago
join us after graduation. 
David Allen, New York Christopher Owens, Chicago Michael Bachrodt, Chicago James Farrell, Chicago Shannon Kelly, Chicago Carolyn Parnell, Chicago Michael Bailly, Seatlle Michael Feczko, Chicago Kevin Kileen, Chicago Maureen Phelan, Washington, DC Carolyn Bargas, Chicago Brad Fitzgerald, Los Ange/,es Michelle Kippes, Chicago Jennifer Pelle, Chicago James Bergin, Chi.cago Zachary Gamblin, Chicago Michael Knecht, Los Angeles Philip Pidot, New York Karin Boergers, Chicago Marci Gaus, Pittsburgh Patrick Kovalik, Chicago Jennifer Pines, Chicago Thomas Borchers, Chicago Brian George, Charlotte Amy Krayer, Chicago Jason Plourde, Chicago Emily Borlik, Chicago HeidLGorrnan, Chicago Maribeth Krzywicki, Chicago Jonathan Polking, Chicago Stephanie Bormes, Chicago Douglas Hafemann II, Chicago Brian Lacomb, Chicago Gregory Regan, Chicago Gordon Braun, Chicago Mary Harris, Nashville Paul Lee, Chicago Kimberly Robertson, Phil,adelphia Lynn Buhl, Chicago Kieran Hennessey, Chicago Mark Loftus, New York Justin Roth, Minneapolis Sara Burke, New York Margaret-Mary Hogerty, Chicago Cara Lorch, Chicago Megan Samson, Chicago Casey Burns, Washington, DC Shon Holyfield, Atlanta Kathryn Lupo, Detroit Patrick Schlehuber, Chicago Sean Cantwell, Chicago Andrew Homer, Chicago Tara McGrail, San Francisco Frederick Schrick, St. Louis Kyle Carlin, Chicago Nicole Hudson, Chicago Christina McNutt, Chicago Michael Scott, Chicago Dennis Carroll, Chicago Jennifer Hyduk, Minneapolis Kip Moen, Minneapolis Melissa Sirianni, Pittsburgh Brian Clarke, Washington, DC Matthew Jacques, Boston Philip Murphy, Chicago Elizabeth Smith, Neio York Allison Cormican, Chicago Richard Janor, Chicago Todd Muscato, Chicago Steven Smyth, Staniford Ramon Cross, New York Aran January, Chicago Christian Naus, New York Scott Springman, Chicago Jennifer Davis, Chicago John Joyce, Chicago Hilary Nindorf, Washington, DC Mollie Titler, Chicago Natalie DietBch, Chicago Chad Kalrnes, Chica.go Stacy O'B1ien, Atlanta Matthew Trosper, Chicago James Dombrowski, Chicago Charles Kavanaugh, New Jersey Charles O'Neill, New York William Warden, Washington, DC Kathleen Dom1eJly, Chicago Shawn Woessner, Minneapolis Meghan Doyie, Chicago Timothy Wolfe, Bost,an Alissa Dutmers, Chica.go Wesley Wozniak, AATS Erin Emmons, Chirago ARTHUR :Michael Yenchek, Pittsburgh Michael Empey, Washington DC Iisa Zacharias, Ch1:cago
ANDERSEN 
Michael Zavertnik, PhUadelphia 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Editor 
After eight seasons under the Dome. head basketball coach John Macleod announced his resignation on March 9. making wav for a long search process that resulted in the hiring of Kansas assistant Matt Doherty on 'vlarch 30. 
The Irish were just 106-124 with MacLeod at the helm and failed to qualify for postseason play during the past two sea­sons. which put the coach's job in jeopardy. 
''I feel like we were able to make major contributions to tl~e grpwth of Notre Dame basket­ll4ll," Mac~,e?d said. _"1 thin·l< everythmg 1s m 1¥ffiY J?C N~tfft 
Dame to make a pos1l1ve move. I appreciate the opportunity to work here at Notre Dame and l wish the best for the young men who are part of the program." 
MacLeod's Pight-year tenure was the fourth longest in school history. He led the Irish to the postseason twice during that span, with bids in the ~IT in 1991-92 and "I 99h-97. ThR Irish advanced to the championship game in '91-'92 and Macleod was namnd Big East rnach of the year for the '96-'97 season. Macleod played in inf1uential role in Notre Dame's decision to join the Big East. but after back-to-back mediocre seasons, 
Macleod resigned alledgedly 
under pressure from University 
otlicials. 
The ensuing search process 

involved names like Xavier 
coach Skip Prosser, Seton Hall's 
Tommy Amaker and 
Princeton's Bill Carmody, but 
Utah coach Rick Majerus PmergPd as the frontrunner. However. as a possible deal neared, Majerus withdrew his name, apparently amid specula­tion about his character by 
University  officials  Father  
Edward  ~falloy  and  FathPr  
William Beauchamp.  

Eventually Doherty. who was barely mentioned during the secretive search process. was chosen as MacLeod's successor and named the 16th Irish head coach in a prPss conference on ~arch 30. 
"Sounds pretty good to me," said an emotional Doherty after the announcement. "This is a very pround moment in my life. Everything Notre Dame stands (Qr and represents is how I trytu live my life. I've been very fortunate to be involved in sev­eral champicrnships, but this ranks right up there, if not the highest professional accom­plishment of my careAr." 
Doherty's career has its fair share of highlights. He played alongside Micha1>l Jordan and James Worthy on North Carolina's 1982 National Championship team and helped lead Kansas to the 1993 Final Four as an assistant under Roy Williams. Aside from his seven­season stint at Kansas, Doherty was also an assistant at Davidson from 1989-1992. 
"Matt brings to Notre Dame a tremendous basketball back­ground," athletic director Mike Wadsworth said on the hiring. "He's extremely mature, he's very knowledgeable as far as the game is concerned and he has a proven track record as a recruiter." 
The Observer/Jett Hsu 

John Macleod resigned as head coach of the men's basketball team after eight seasons and only two postseason appearances. Athletic director Michael Wadsworth hired former University of Kansas assis­tant Matt Doherty as Macleod's replacement. Doherty has already become a student favorite through his participation in Bookstore Basketball as a member of Lebo's Legends. 
... 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 33 
The Office of Residence Life and the Office of Student Affairs ... wish to thank the 1998-99 Resident Hall Assistants for their hard work and dedication this year. 
Congratulations and Good Lu~k! 
Holly Andrews 
Matthew Eberly John Lowell 
Marcella Sandleben
Celia E. Antonini 
Erick Endler Nora E. Mahoney 
Kathleen R. Schlef
Sarah Archibald 
Ryan P. Engle Elizabeth Marino 
Patrick M. Schneidau 
Gennaro Barca 
Amy M. Fatula Melissa N. Matheny 
Sarah C. Semlow
Megan Barry 
Michael J. Ferguson Anthony McCanta Patricia Sevilla
Molly Bates 
Amy Firstenberger Chrisopher D. McCarthy 
Kyle R. Shaw
Benjamin Bayer 
Kelly D. Fitzpatick Kevin McGlone Mark Shimizu 
'Ii 

Andrew P. Beegan 
Brian C. Fremeau Shane McGonegle 
ElleniSinis b Jl. , h1:1 . ... . ; d 
Ameya Bijoor 
William Gaither Elizabeth McKillop .j; Briat1 1C. Smitl1 1 Ill ~i :•rrirfl '. 
Mark Birshbach 
-

Katherine Gallagher Bridget McNicholas 
David Sopko
Ryan P. Blaney 
James W. Genuario Brent C. Moberg 
Sarah Spitznagle 
Sara Boblick 
Maria C. Montenaro
Joshua Gerloff Jeffrey V. Spoonhower
Emily Borlik 
Salvatore Gilene Kathleen M. Motyka 
Jennifer Sundberg
Claire E. Boyle 
Jennifer Glodek Kristin K. Mueller 
Kelli Swinarski 
Shay Boyle 
Christina Goetz Dan Mullen 
Gregory Sziler 
William Brennan, Jr. 
Anthony A. Goldsby Erinrose Muphy 
Leah R. Thomas
Sara Burke 
Tracy A Gorman Sean Murtha 
Stephanie L. Thomas
Rosemary A. Caballero 
John Graziani Jennifer Nash 
Robert Thornburg
Ryan Caufield 
Brian P. Guarraci · Christopher Naumann 
Steven M. Titus 
Anthony J. Cecutti 
Gregory P. Haake Jeffrey Nichols Caroline Tonozzi 
Russell Chiappetta 
Derrell Hauser Kathleen B O'Boyle 
Angela Torma
Leonard D. Conapinski 
John P. Hazelrigg, Jr. Brent O'Neill Keven Torres 
Anthony Conlin 
Maureen Hoover Karen O'Toole 
Patricia U mmel
James Cooper 
Anne M. Hosinski Lisa Owczarczak 
Evelyn R. Villarreal
Ryan R. Cox 
April Hughes David Pagliarini 
Lauren Voitier 
Patrick L. Coyle 
John Infranca Heather Ann Paich 
Rachel M. Wacker
Thomas J. Cronley 
Leah Ingraham Larry Paul Johanna K. Ward
Scott Cullen 
Kevin Kiefer Elizabeth Plummer 
William S. Warden 
Frank Daily 
Colton J. King Tina L. Potthoff 
Scott Warnock
Julia M. Dayton 
Brain J. Kluk Matthew Potts 
Mary S. Westervelt 
Clare Deckelman 
Jared Pulver 
Stephen Koeth Andrew M. Wilhelm
Claudia M. delBusto 
Amy Krayer LaKesha N. Randolph 
Jeffery Wincko
Carrie DeMuniz 
Carianne Kretz Brandon Roach 
Deborah E. Witsken
Jed D'Ercole 
Brian LaComb Eric Robben 
Frank Wittman, Jr. 
Melissa DeRosa 
Jennifer A. Lance Kimberly Robertson 
Michael Yang
Antonio R. DcSapio 
Justin M. LaReau Lisa Rodriquez 
Michael J. Zavertnik
Martha A. Dickinson 
Frank F. Law John Rogers Daniel Zwart
Natalie Dietsch 
Beth Lawler Timothy Rosa 
Kathleen Dillenburger 
Jason C. Lineen Jamiko Rose 
Tracy Lynn Dirr 
Jeremiah Long Maureen E. Ryan 
Chad Doran 
Shaye Loughlin Christian Sabella 
Micheal Dwyer 
Mark Low Diane R. Sabol 
We also wish to thank and congratulate the fallowing 
-

Assistant Rectors as they move on to new opportunities: 
Renee Flickinger Kathryn Larkin Rebecca Magee Martin Rhein Erin Brandenburg Tom Bernardo 
Sr. Rita Ann Cammack, OSF

Heather McShain Jeremy Cole Cynthia Morgan Eric Wycoff Michael Hickey 
. ­
William Keen Rev Merwyn Thomas. CSC James Barret Kathleen Brannock Stacy Soper James Swartz Matt Nielson Dana Dillon Kevin Patrick Heather Guilette Kristina Oven 

Our deepest gratitude to the followitn Rectors as they leave their current positions. Best wishes to each of you! 
Br. Edward Luther, CSC Br. Bonaventure Scully, CFX Thomas Cummings 
page 34 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, May 14, 1999 
SMC hires

-

Irish begin new tradition of excellence 
four new 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Sporrs Writer 
coaches 

For a team in its inaugural var­sity season. the women's rowing
By NOREEN GII.LESPIE 

team competed with the grit and
Saint Mary's News Editor 

skill of seasoned compPtitors. The novice eight boat never tin-..,,
Saint Mary's athletics 

ished luwer than second place.
hopes to fl11d increased sta­

The boat finished second to
bility and recruiting efforts 

\'Visconsin at thr Midwest
with the hiring of four new Championships on May 2.

coaches for the. 1999-00 
"Our novices expNienrcd greatathletk seasons. · success and improYement thisSoccer, volleyball. tennis past sBason," said head coach

and softball w.ill change 

Martin Stone. "With all of themleadership hands in '99-'00, 
moving up to the varsity learnjoining \Vhat atb.leUc; dtrec,~ 
~ --;.:.-.:¥·,-:..~

next year. it will only help 
.,,. -.... r'':::;.
tor Jan Travis calls ~ a top.­

increase the speed of our varsity ~·. -~..............> .. ,.. 
..;.;.....,
notch coaching staff." 
. ~-·....,;'· -~ ~-. .,,..

boats. Our novicB team this year "' -"· 
Da.n Stevenson takes over 

set the precedent for our future L------------------------------~----­
as head tennis, coach, bring­

novice programs.'' The women's rowing had an excellent inaugural season. Under the leadership of head coach Martin Stone,
ing a histo.ry,'of nationa:t 

., -:nl.\~ varsity eight improved all the team placed well at many top competitions. 
coillpeUt1~· ·t'Jre""rnle.·· 
season, advancing to the finals at -Stevenson. a membfir of the the Midwest Championships placed third at the Midwest Championships. !{owing Drwelopmental Camp at t.lw Ml.CO
1960 Notre Dame national 

bt>hind two Wisconsin te;:ims. The team "Having our lightweight eight boat ranked Olympk Training Center this Junn. 
championship team, cur.~ 

placed third at the April 17 tri-rncet against nationally girns a great deal or credibility to "This is a great honor and privil<\ge for
rently holds national and 

Ohio State and Michigan. The boat also fin­our program and is a tribute to how hard Michelle.'' said Stono. "As a lirst-yoar pro­
regional rankings for the 

ished second at tho March 7 tri-meet against our athletes worked during the entire year gram, this nwans a grnat deal to have sonrn­

men's over-60 tennis divi,. 
Michigan State and Creighton. to make themselves better," said Stone. one with Michelle's talents selected !'or thission. 
Another successful group on the team was A testament to the success of the program. camp. She worked nxtrnnrnlv hard {his sea­"I think we'll see this pro• the lightweight eight boat, which finished the freshman \1ichelle 0lsgard was one of 12 son and I look forward to l1aving IH)r movn 
gram move up a notch,'' 

season nmked 12th in the nation. The team athletes invited to participatfl in a Freshman up to the varsity lnvol next ynar." 
Travis said. "[Stevenson) brings personal playing ('Xperience, so} th.ir,.~ w~ will also see a change iu strategy." 

After severaf coaching shifts during the past sea­son, the softball program will seek stability in return-, ing head coach Joe Speybroek, who created the Saint.Mary's sofl.hall prQt' gram in the 1980s. 
Y'ou wi[[ a[ways &e a:;'ar[ey's cfinest! 
Speybrook o,lso,;b,egij~ thf;l 
Notre Dame softball pro,­

Cfass of ·99
gr,~~~ definitely; will see it change in the level of ball that the girls will b~. play­ing,.. Travis said. "Since my 

<Erin~wcf( 
A[Cison {_fiartsh
tenure at Saint .Marts, we 

Christina Cfioncf1 CEmify <]3orfik · this knowledge of coaching 
ha.v,m't ha.d a c<Sach wJth .• 
S,\\fUa Chccchia 
Cara Ciu.fJanl
· artdtbo knowledge'of·tlre
game." ·· 

@crcSQ Coo[uh"n CJ'{utafie CJ)ictsch
Jason Milliga:nwilt ·take 0· 
~ri CJ)o[an 
Christine CEhfinfJCf' ·for: the fail ,soo.son.at'tere.con• · 
over as head s()ccer coaep, 

A.mi <Ehrman CErin CE"ans
tributing as th~ ass.istant 

C.Ketie ~e:min5 <Erin Gafbraith
~oaGh;for.. the l~98r~9J'!~l,l.~ 

son. Milligan's coachin.g 
2.Jessica Grom 
Sf'umcfa 3ap{ii
exporience inclgqe§ ~QaJ!ll;~ 
ing the Junior lrish Soccer 
<Dawn l~ofmson 
%uric ~ffe:-y
club. He was also a three­

~rintt%mps 
CJ3eth ~arino
year ·starter fat ~ethef: 
College's top ranked team it?. 
Cf:Jiga&etft S~A_dams 
Gemma [X.oCin'1ro
the NCCAA in 19.98C"i< . • ' "• ' 
CErin~se S,\(urpft-y Cl'{ico(c Sl)eopfe:s
. Recruiting efforts a.re expected to he his. strongest 
~[anie S(}hiffips 
Y\iette: S()i95ush
contribution. Travis said. .

'
• 
~urce:n~an
-.,~.. "lMillig\inJ has the time S\(af'cie S"ndfe:&en 
' 
""ror ·tecruhing, wtt}d-1 is
' 
~tie ScFtlfHt19 ~ura Stewnsott
' 
important beeau$e we need
' 
I 
!-' ~Jft(ccn Sucherto increase the squad size;" Sarah 6Ya-t£or
I 
I 
Travis said. "He. bas enthu­
[Jennifer cfohtff Stephanie ({)an <HofJ
siasm, and·combined with 
his rl)cruiting, we :;houJ.d. 
' 
~ar! tWestcrvdt 
see him take U1e program lo 
another level." 

! I Rhanda Shields. J~9a~'l9,.... assistant· vollevball coach, 
•. will take over airhead co(l.clt 
I 
in the fall and is expected fo' 
continue the growth of frte 
I 
· 
I 
' 
program. · · · ·.· ·· ''. ·· "She has a wealth of play­
i 
' 
ing expodenco. and with 
. hfdr enthusiasm, should con­tinue to add to the pro­gram," Travis said. . 
Shields has coached the. Louisville Volleyba'll Club and has worked with ti}e Saint Mary's volleybaoll 
· camp. She wns also .a fou.r~. year scholarship winner at the University of Louisville, where she was a. (our y~Jtri varsity letter winner. 


The hiring of the <;oa<:ll\35 marks the end of a season"' 
long process. ·
...··· -· "It's a great J998.,99,)Travis 
,·: "<:•: -''«·;.)~:~;~;},\/®: , . 


--~ Far~ey Ha~~ 
• , Un.i vera:i. ty of Not.re Dame 
---·-·-­

' I 
' 
' 
Friday, May I 4, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT ' 
' 
• ·-··1 ' 
' 
l 
• 1 
Which Big Five firm is in ·the best position to offer you a better position? 
Congratulations to the following University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College graduates who will be joining Deloitte & Tonche in offices across the country! 
Ray Ballotta • Kelly Canavan • Ryan Carroll • Mike Chadwick David Corken • Mackenzie Coxe • Charles Crawford • Melissa Crosbie Tim DeBruyne • Claudia delBusto • Mike Feeley • Brad Flood Matt Gareau • Katie Gummer • John Hays • John Kelly • Kara Kirk Harry Kirschner • Gina Lamberti • Colin Langan • Kathryn Larkin David Leung • Richard Mazel • Kristin Mueller • Nicole Murphy Michael Nussbaum • ~ Keith Parker • Laurie Pater • Julie Peck Susan Roberts • Maya Rosloniec • Katie Schilling • Matt Sisk Heather Stone • Kate Suwalski • Chris Svejcar • John Walsh Johanna Ward • Kerry Ward • Jeff White • Frank Wittman, Jr. Amanda Zenor • Andrew Zone 
Visit our website at www.us.deloitte.com I I 
FORTUNE 
1~~-;c;.'~ ,. ~eotifANl!S 
TOWORl(IOII 

In addilion Lo being named one of the 100 Besl Companies Lo Work.for in America by Forlune"" magazine, we have 
-


been recognized by Workforce and \¼1rhing Mother for our innovative work/life balance programs, and by Compulerworld and Information Week for use of technology in Lhe workplace. Deloilte &: Touche is an equal opportunity firm. 
We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard lo race, religion, cree<l, color, national origin, age, 
gender, sexual orientation, marital status, disability or veteran status. 
• Deloitte & 
the answer 1s Touche
-··-···•--··.. ··· ..····•••···•-· 
0 
' 

©1999 Deloitte & Touche LLP and Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group LLC. Deloitte & Touche 
.... 

refers to Deloitte & Touche LLP, Deloitte & Touche Consul ting Group and related entities 
page 36 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, May 14, 1999 
¦ TRACK 

.. 
Larger Belles squad finds greater succe~ in '99 
SMC wins its first ever 
MzrA A conference meef .rV1 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Assi5tanr Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's track team had noth­ing short of a record-breaking season. 
Pielding one of the largest teams in recent history, the Belles broke school records am! won their first conferf':nce meet ever. 
"Thr. entire sea­son was an incre<l­
manf peo.p1e as last year and we did awesome. I foel Vf'r\' luckv to be surr6uncte<l by tlw talent on the track team." 

Tlwir success in conference meets may haw bt'en .partly due to the tough com­pPtition they faced from tht• start of their spason. They began their season at the \\'abash Invitational and the Huningt.on Rrlavs where thcv faced Division I. II and ·m schools. The Belles were very compPtitivc and placed in the relays and individually. 
Saint Mary's field team immediately was outstanding, led by junior Allyson Treloar in javelin. 
Treloar finished the season undefeated in dual meets and finished second in the league championship. Them, she not only qualified for nationals. but also broke the school record with a throw of' 123 feet, 10 inches. 
The Belles' first win in the MIAA came against Olivet and Albion in April. 
The Belles ran very strong at this meet and beat Olivet soundly 90-40. As in all of the records and wins this season, Sarah Gallagher and Stacy Davis, both seniors, led the way for Sainl Mary's. 
"She was an excellent lnader and inspiration for the team," said junior Sharis Long of Gallagher. "She truly led 
by example and will be greatly missed." 
Gallagher was named the scholar ath­letA of" the year by Saint Mary's this spring. 
The 13ellcs went on to finish their sea­son on a very high note, beating 
Defiance in their last dual meet and finishing fifth at thf': MIAA r.onfenmce championships. At the championships, freshman Erica Burket and junior Ashley Dickerson also broke school records. Burkel placed fourth in the 
I00-meter hurdles 
a.nd brokn thn
ib le one." said 

record with a time
sophomore Kara 

'THIS YEAR WE HAD FOUR TIMES 
of 16.22 seconds.
Hrrgeman. "We 

AS MANY PEOPLE AS LAST Dickerson, another
only had six peo­plP last year and YEAR AND WE DID AWESOME. I FEEL part of the field team, broke lhe
"e still did very LUCKY TO BE SURROUNDED BY THE 
record in discus
well. This year we 

with a throw of 107
had four ti~p,s as TALENT ON THE TRACK TEAM.
-
feet, 9 inches, which earned her an KARA BERGEMAN eighth-place finish. 
SOPHOMORE As always, the short sprints and distance runners, 
who were consistent all season. fared well at the league meet. As in almost every meet, Davis won the 100. Sophomore Genevieve Yavello, who was named the most valuable runner by the team. placed 10th in the 3000 meters and ninth in the 1500 meters. Freshman Melissa Goss also placed 13th in the 500 meters. 
"The track team had an outstanding season, performing very well in the con­ference," said Yavello. "We were led by our captains Stacy Davis and Sarah Gallagher, who made contributions to om team both on and off the track. We will really miss them both next year." 
The seniors will surely be missed, but the team has a lot of young talent. Team members said they are confident that the youth will make next season as suc­cessful, if not better, than this one. Over half of the team was composed of fresh­men and sophomores that will be called upon -under the leadership of the ris­ing seniors -to lead the Belles in anoth­er record-breaking season next year. 


Ask For Our Special College Grad Plan Now! 
609 E.Jefferson Blvd, Mishawaka• 1005 N. Nappanee St, Elkhart 259-1981 or 674-9926 674-f>112 or 264-l1% www.jordanauto.com 


Stacy:Bavis led_ Belles Wi'th $peed, enthusiasm 
By MOL,L,YMCVOX · ~ts~pt..S.f!?rcs .~~itqt 
:Senior Stacy:i)a:yis. :;rec()rd speaks fo.r JtselJ., ...•.... , ... ... ....... . , .....· .. ..·..... 
· She has qualified for NtAA Indoor Track and, Field. CrvunpionslUps and tl1e ....···•·.. Outdoor r-"'---~-~ CharnpfonshJpsifor three~cons.ecutiv~ y(l~rs. S~e holds',t~~ school ·record·.for th(;l 1()0-rp('!:t~r·dasli 
(12.04 <secondsh 200::.nretef ··· dash 

C~J r96 :~ec;,on~~);; ..,__,_.......,,._---,-...., 
55-meter dash Davis · (7.'16 sec-ondsrand 60~mete\'c <,h.1.sh (7.8,?. l:i~ondli). Shewas named ffrst team AJl-MIAA this 'sims!}n and. wtts an All,American 
·as a soppomore, Her sophomore y~ar she placM fourth in the nation in the 55 and tlJ.ird in the 100 as well. "Stacy is the Saint Mary's definition ofa scholar athlete/' said junior team­mate Claire Burke; "She is not only inteUige11t, humble and strong, but 
· she looks ciut for her friends and teammates." Even more than her records, Davis' affect on her team Speaks volumes: 
KSh(l lQoked so intimidating, but as it turns out, Stacy is the nicest, most sensitive. caring person," said fresh­man teammate Stefanie Roth. "Not only is she an outstanding runner, she would do anything for anyone on the teamjf theywere in need.~ · 
Davis has run for the Belles for three years and her impact was felt every se?'son. Thlsseason; she beat almost every one of her competitors in thelOO andcarried that energy to the MIAA championships where she won the 100 again, qualified for nationals again andwas JJ,amed:first teamAll­
MIM. 
''Being ob the team with Stacy was awesome," .said sophomore Genevieve Yavello. "We knew we could always fount on her for first place. At con­ference, J was in the bleachers cheer­fog forher. and I heard several awed (JOrt1ments from .ther people about .'that runner from Saint Mary's.· It made me proud to hear that and know they were talking about one of my teammates." 
· The MIA.A is not the only group of people to recognize Davis' talents. Her teammates have twice named her MVP, Sa.int Marls awarded her the J;he Sa,ipt Mary's College Athlete of the Year Award in 1997 and she won the Saint Mary's Director's Award this spring. 
Davis has earned the college's respect and the respect of her fellow teammates. 
"Stacy Davis is by far the greatest runner that I have ever gotten the oppurtunity to run with," said senior co-captain Sarah Gallagher. "Every time shB gets in thosfl starting blocks. you know you will soc a great race and Stacy will always come out on top. She has a natural ability and works hard to remain at the level that she is at." 
Even other athletic teams at Saint 
Mary's respect Davis' ability. 
''Every time we got on the bus, no one would sit in the very back seat. because it was Stacy's," Roth said. "I knew our team knew this, but when we had to ride with softball once, no one sat back there and I couldn't fig­ure out why. Then I heard someone whisper, 'Oh, that's Stacy's seat' All I could do was laugh." 
Davis will be missed not only for her 
first-place finishes and the points she 
earns for the Belles. teammates said, 
but for the dedication and enthusiasm 
she brought to the Belles. 



for your commitment to service andjustice and peace May you continue to respond in the future to the call to "act justly, love tenderly and walk humbly with God" 
With appreciation, The Staff ofThe Center for Social Concerns 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Congratulations 
to 

The Class of1999 
Friday, May 14, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 37 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 
..

Notre Dame wins fourth-straight Big East title 
By WES JACOBS American Jennifer llall. "We the lineup for Notre Damn Spom Wri1er jusL have to go out there and when Lhey take the courts on play to win. Everyone's playing· Saturday. Hanked 10th nation­Whiln Notrn Damn's classns their bnst right now, so we foci ally, Dasso will remain as tho and finals mav have mHlod a like wo dtn compete with any­No. 1 singles player, with llall woc~k ngo, thn ·wonmn's tPnnis one." right behind her. Senior Marisa l1:am's work is just beginning, Florida State enters the Velasco will occupy the No. 3 Tim I2th-rnnknd Irish will NCI\A Championships with an slot, and freshman star Becky host tlw NCI\/\ Championship at-largo bid on the strength of Varnum will be at No. 4·. lournanwnt's first and sncond a 21-6 rncord. The Seminoles Sophomore K1~lly Zalinski will rounds of the Midwest boasl the naticm's 91st-rank1irl continue her strong play at No. Hl~gionals this wocknnd. In the playor, f'roshman Alida 5 and Lindsey Green is expect­first round, Nolrn Damn will Galluvits. Shn is also ranked ed to finalize the singles lineup. faro unranhd Illinois-Chicago, 47th in doubles with sopho­D1lubles will remain strong who n:cPivod an automatic bid more Nanetle Duxin. for the Irish, with 8th-ranked to tlw tournamnnt IJy winning In Urn teams· only nrncting in Dasso and llall anchoring the Lil(' Midw<'stcrn Collt>giato 1996, the Irish beat the lineup. Volasco and Varnum Conf1•rnncc crown Lo earn its Seminoles 6-1. will follow, while Green and first-,wer NCJ\A hid. Iowa comos to South Bend Zalinski will complete the 
The otlwr lirst-round match­with a 16-8 record and impressive lineup. up will pit No. I<J Florida State received an at-large selection This tournament also pre­against No. ]lJ Iowa. who the to mak,~ its l'irst-cvcr NCAA sents Notre Danie with the end Irish dd'i:atcd carli1\r Ll1is year, appearance. Freshman Toni of an era. Two stellar seniors 8-1. Whidrnver of tho four Neykova and junior Shera will be taking the courts for the t1•arns still stands al thn nnd Winglnr are ranked :~8th in linal time -Velasco and Hall. -­
will advuncn lo tlw round of' I(1 doubles. The Irish beat tho Hall has compiled a record ut lfw lJniv1•rsity of' J<'lorida. llawkcycs 8-1 earliAr in llrn total of 115 singlAs wins and 90 "Wc'n~ really excited lo be year at homo and they havo doubles wins, making her S!!l!!Ctnd as a host of' tlw lirsl won all four menlings with Notre Dame's all time leader in and s1•co11d rounds," said Irish Iowa, who is irneded 33-48. singles and combined wins. head coat:li .lav Louderback. After Notre Dame's exciting She broke Mary Colligan's n­"Timm arii tl;rnn talented Big East championship win year-uld record earlier this tlinms coming to Notre Damo over Miami nearly three woeks ynar. Hall became the first so iL sh~'.uld ho th.mo grnat a){o, which advanced the team Irish player to reach 100 wins matdws. rncord to 22-6, the Irish have under head coach Louderback Nolre Dame has bnaten UIC had the luxury of a long break. on Feb. 19, when she beat 
in nach or tlrnir five previous Whiln it has provided rest for UCLA's t\nnica Cooper 7-5, 6-3. nwctings, but tlrn Lwo teams the players, it has also forced Velasco currently stands one haVI! not played sinc,i the everyone to remain focused. win away from breaking the l lJR5-86 season. Tim Flames, "We've been practicing hard 100-win plateau, with a 99-45 s,rndml 49-64, will bo making this week to get tournament career singles record. tlll'ir s11cond trip to Notre tough," said sophomore "Hight now, we have only one Danw this s1mson, afler com­Michelle Dasso. "If we stay goal left to accomplish," said J){1ling in the Eck Classic in focused, the break will help us, llall. "The next two weeks real­Snpt111nlrnr. because I think everyone need­ly will define our season. 
"W1i'rn rt1ally nxcited righl ed a break." Marisa and I want to go out rww," said Irish senior t\11-No changes are expected in winners." 

Queridos Chilenos '98, 

La vida es pura pasi611. Hay que lle11ar tu copa de amor. Para vivir, hay que luchar Un coraz6n para ga11ar. 
RYAN, MATEO, CLARITA, MEGAN, ANNE, TRES, LA COLLEEN, LA JENNY, KEVIN, CHRIS, BRENNA, DANIELLE, SUSIE, CAROLINA, DAN, LA SAMANTA, MEG y CARLOS F elicitaciones! 
Que tengan suerte y amor en la vida y que la copa de amor siempre este llena. 
,' 
.. 

page 38 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, May 14, 1999 
¦ BASEBALL 

Sluggers split two-game series with Hurricanes 
By BRIAN KESSLER Shilliday, McKeown and that they came back from a that (pitching coach! Brian thren runs in the Pighth inning Sports F.d itot Heilman threw a gem, combin­heartbreaking loss the night O'Connor mapp<'d out worked to to defeat Notr1! Damn in the first ing for 15 strikeouts to lead the before to find in themselves a perfection." game of the series. 
Notr11 Danw's Alex Shilliday. Irish to victory. The lone way to win a game like they did With the win, Manieri's squad Last season, the Irish dropped Chris MrKeo~vn and Aaron Hurricane hit came with t1,vo tonight." said !mad coach Paul improwd to 40-12, marking thP a thrnH-ganrn sPritis to Miami by I hiilman combined fur a one-hit strikes and two outs in the l\lanicri, whose team has now 11th-straight season that the a combined score ol' (12-8. shutout of the second-ranked ninth, preserving Miami's 2,078-won 10 one-run games in '99. Irish have won 40-plus games in Notrn Dame will now proparo Miami Hurricanes on game streak of not being no-hit. "We've played so many close a season. Miami dropped to 36-for tho Big East tournament Wednesday to record perhaps Ileilman pitched the final five games all season lhat uur play­12 and saw its scoring streak which gots und1ffway May 19. in the bigl{cst Irish victory in thn innings t.o <>am the win and ers have the confidence and snappt\d at 248 games (sixth­T rn n1nn, N . J . T lw Ir is h al'I' · historv or Frank Eck Stadium. improve to 10-2 on the season. experience lo perform under longest in NCAA hisLorv). l'avored to win tlw tournament. 
Afl/r dropping a 5-3 game to The sophomore All-Anrnrican, tremendous pressure. Our pitch­Miaiui rnllit•d frtlm a :1-2 dnspitn losing to Hutgtirs in last tlw Ilurricancs on Tuesday but struck out seven bntters {() ing was snperh and !he plan defocit on TuPsday night with y,•ar's championship ganw. night, thl' Irish scored the break Frank Carpin's 41-year g11me's only run in the bottom of old recnrd l'or strikeouts in a tlw first inning when sophomor1' season. Tom Farmer took the s1H·ond basmnan i\lec Porznl loss for Miami. drnvr in froshman StP\'!' Stanlny 'Tm just so proud of our kids, with a single to rnntnr field. particularly because of the way 


Notre Dame preps for NCAA tQurney 
By BRIAN KESSLER conrn-from-behind victory over Sporrs EJicor Miami at this year's Big East Championships in Coral Gables, 
The 30th-ranked Notre Dame Fla. The Irish fell behind ;{-2 men's tennis team will be com­late in the match before rally­peting in its ninth-consecutive ing with a pair of 7-5 third set NCAA championship on victories to beat the Hurricanes Saturday when they take on on their home court, 4-3. No. 19 Harvard in Terre Haute, The Crimson earned a spot in Ind. the 64-team field by winning 
"They're a good trmm," head tht) Ivy League crown. 
coach Bobby Bayliss said. llarvard has won three of the "Tlrny've been ranked betwePn four meetings between the two 11 and 20 all season, but I schools. The lone Irish win think it'll be a close match. I'd came in the 1998 Blue-Gray give them tlrn edge in doubles National Classic. and at lhe top of the singles Brian Patterson returns to lineup. but we're as good, if not the Irish lineup at No. 2 singles better. at four. live and six." and No. 1 doubles. Patterson 
The 1\o. 1 singles matcl1 will was unable to compete at Big 
be a showdown between Notre East due to a toe injury he suf­Dame's Hyan Sachire and fered at practice. Harvard's James Blake. Blake "Patterson's 100 percent is the top-ranked singles player now," Bayliss said. "lie hasn't in the country, while Sachire is played !competitively] since currently ranked third. Blake April 13, so he may be rusty del'eated Sachire 6-3. 7-6 !7-2), early on, but I know he'll play in this season's Intercollegiate hard." Tennis Association All­Several other Irish players American Championships. have missed practices over the 
"Obviously that will be the past two weeks due to illness, match of the tournament," but Bayliss hopes to have a head coach Bob Bayliss said. "I healthy squad come Saturday. think Hyan has a reasonably Host Indiana State and 10th­good chance if he plays well. ranked Baylor will square off in He's been working hard all the other first round match-up. week and is really excited with the winners of both about the match." matches playing on Sunday. 
Notre Dame received an The Irish are 8-8 in NCAA 
automatic bid with a dramatic tournament play in the '90s. 

l'//)h01Al'ES ARE .lbl/L1H/.E! 'I L,' 
-
• 
B accalaureate Mas.s 

• 
Rare Com~ioning 

• 
Law School Ceremony 


., 
• E MBA/MBA Diploma Ceremony 
~ .¦ 

.¦
~ 
~ 
COIV'/ACT­
~ 
Office oflllformation Tech11ologies University ofNotre Dame
r 

Room 9, McKe1111a llal/ P.O. Box 1088 
... 
Notre /Jame, IN 46556-1088 


.. 
Friday, May 14, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 39 
¦ SOFTBALL 
Irish finish perfect in Big East, capture first title 

The Observer/Liz Lang Angela Bessolo gave up just one hit in three innings against Connecticut Sunday to earn a save in the Big East Championships. 
Notre Dame wins tournament 
Observer Scalf Rcpon 
The Notrn Dnnw softball team Gap­tu recl its first-ever Big East Championship Sunday with a 5-1 win ovnr Solon I I all in Storrs, Conn. 
Tim win J.{ivns the Irish the Big East's automatic bid in the NCAA tournament. Tlw Irish will be• making t:hoir fourth NCAA appearancn under head coach Liz Millrr. 
Ttll' Irish ontr>red the Big East tour­111wwnl as the No. 1 seed and defeated fourth-seedBd Connecticut 4-1 on -the backs of' Notrn Dame pitchers Jennifer Sharron ,uul Angnla B,1ssolo. Sharron gavo u1:i just onn run in four innings to pick up thn win, whiln Bessolo yielded only ono hit in hnr throe innings of 
relief to earn the save. 
In the second game on Saturday, the lrish ra!Ued from a two•run deficit to defeat the two-time Big East Champion Bost.on Collt}ge Engles, 9-4. The Irish bats exploded in the fifth inning, as they scored four runs on three hits. 
In thfl championship against Seton II all,, tho lrish jumpod out to an oarly 1­0 lend, while Bessolo pitched strong. She gave up just one hit while striking out seven, beforo be1ing replaced by Sharron. 
The Pirates managed to score their lone run to tie the game in the top of the sixth, but the Irish struck back with two runs in the bottom of the sixth. Jarrah Myers' two-run double put the Irish in front for good. 
ND sweeps Big East regular season, 16-0 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sporrs Wrirer 
After finishing the regular season with 
a perfect 16-0 conference record and 
winning three slraighl tournament 
games, the Notre Dame softball team won 
its first Big East softball championship, 
defeating Seton I lall 5-1. 
The Irish finished the season 38-18 ·overall. 
Sophomore Jennifer Sharron led the 
pitchers with 16 wins, going 9-0 in con­
ference play. She also led the team with a 
1.07 EHA, -145 strikeouts and kept oppo­nents to a .194 batting average against her. She also thrnw back-to-back one-hit­ters in the concluding weekend of' Big East play. 
Senior Angela Bessolo linished the reg­ular seiason 14-5, 7 -0 in conference. She also led all pitr.lrnrs with 30 appearances throughout the season. 
Offensively the Irish were tough to stop this yoar. Seven players linished with bat­ting av1-iragos higher than .:100 while the team had a .306 averagn. 
Shortstop Mel Alkire l11d the team in eight offensive categories. She posted teams highs in at bats, hits, homeruns, HBI, total bases, slugging percentage, on base percentage and sacrifice flies. 
Calclrnr Kris McCleary had seven home runs on the Irish squad that set. a Notrn Dame record with 26 homuruns in one snason. First baseman Amy Lnrnire had a team-high 14 doubles, and slrn and third basmnan Jarrah Mynrs were among the t1~am leaders in batting average. 
The young squad was successful partly because of its senior leadership. Laboe 
and McCleary captained the team Ind on 
the field. Bcssolo proved to be a stellar 
example on the mound, of'ten coming 
through with outstanding efforts. 
"As seniors, our main goal was to end the season on our own tnrms. and we still have a chance to do that," said Laboe, who played in all 54 games. "We wanted our team to be on tlrn sanrn pag11 and work together. We want to haV() Uw most successful softball SIHLson at Notre) Damn." 
"We wanted lo leave knowing that wn did our bnst to build the program," she continued. "The program 1ixpncts grnat things from tho undnrclassmen and wn would like to comeback ono day and know that we lrnlped them achicvn thdr potnntial." 
Tim nmergnn~:n of s,ivnral kHy frnsh1111t11 contributors proved vital l'or thP Irish. Showing a healthy f'uturn for Irish pitch­ing, Michelle Moschnl went 5-J for the season and posted thren co11s1wutivc vic­tories over Bowling Gn•nn and TolPdo. She finished the s1mson with a 230 EBA with 53 strikeouts to only sewn walks. 
An olTtmsive threat. Myers st.artnd <wcry game at third f'or tlrn Irish . .Jemny Kricch startod 53 games in right lick! and took over the lnacl-of'f spot for llw Irish. She stol11 a team-high IO basns in I:-1 attempts. 
Freshrrnm Hebncca Eimon and KaLhlP1m lloag also rared wnll. lloag startl'd '.-\5 games and Eimnn, who m1wrg1•d as tho starting second baseman, started 30 games. Both rccoivecl Big East rookin of' tho wnek honors during tlw yPar. 
"Everyo1rn was f!(JUal." said Mc.Cl(\ary. "We wnrn always pulling for Pach ot.lwr -win or losn -and wc d1ivnlopnd a bond. Wo were playing for nach otlrnr rathHr than oursnlvos and that was important." 

Nicole Amy Jada Benn Jamila Benn Liz Berls E1nily Block Karin Boergers Julie Burke Arnanda Cahill Marisol Chan Kelly Chupinsky Gina Couri Brenda Cucci Ai1nee Davidson Jocelyn DeLaruelle Carrie DeMuniz Melissa DeRosa Anne Distler Colleen Dolan Meghan Dooher Eileen Dunne 
Congratulations, Weasels! Good Luck Pasquerilla West 
Courtney Engelbrecht Erin Fair Anne Fitzpatrick Kristin Frandsen N ao1ni Freeman Jess Fries Denise Generally Kim Gibson Lee Ann Gill Jennifer Gingrass Shannon Glynn Anne Hayes Katrin Heinisch Marisa Higgins Jenn Hildreth Kristine Howard Megan Juckniess Sinead Keegan Katie Kneepkens Sarah Kolasa Carrie Koupal Maribeth Krzywicki Mary Laflin Catherine Layden Jaclyn Lievense Anne MacKenzie Megan Magee Valerie Maldonado Holly Manthei Dianna Mao Chris Matelis Patricia Mayhan Liz McKillop Alicia Mingo Cassidy Miranda Therese Mitros Sara Morand Nicole Mustilli Terri Noone Beth O'Shea 

) 
I' 
I 
L.t . •
.il/JY/P}1 

Nicole Paulina Julie Poulos Kim Raspanti Susan Ray Lisa Rodriguez Helga Schaffrin Stephanie Senteno Ellen Sinis Tara Skelly Clare Sullivan Danielle Svonavec Glo Urbanic Maria Villamarzo Allison Vogt Lauren Voitier Sara Walsh Susan Wenzke Michelle Willian1s Jill Witkowski 
...... 


w w 

page 40 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, May 14, 1999 
\a· ¦ Mrn's LACROSS!':: 
No. 12 Irish set for rematch with No. 5 Hoyas 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
A.,soci,nc Sporrs Edirm 

After a one year hiaLus, the men's lacrosse team returns to the familiar territory of the NCAA tournament to face a familiar oppo110 nt in the Georgetown I ldyas on Sunday in Towson, Md. 
The Irish Sa\-\' a six year tour­nanw nt appearance strnak snapper! last yt>ar whPn they complied a 5-7 rernrd and fail!\d to earn a tournament bid. In 
1999. howeYf'r, a mixture of tal­ented sophomores and senior lt>adf•rship ,has .led the Irish to a 8-5 rneord and a "l 2th seed in the NCAA tournament. 
"Especially after last year, it was im11ortanL for us to get back to the tournament this yPar.'' senior midfielder Brad Owen said. ··we didn't make it as juniors. Wi> had a really good team last year and everyone expected us to go far. But for somr reasun, rvr.rything didn't come together. So this year, lhe tf'am is really young an<l we wanted to prove to the NCAA that we could mahi it back." 
Th<i t.Pam has gotten stronger as lhe season wore on. The play­ers adjusted to playing together and the victories have piled up. 
"We play well together," Owen said. "In our first game against Penn State, we didn't play well together because we were so young. but the young guys have really stepped it up and we have learned Lo play together." 
\1ost of the youth on the team is found on attack and in the midfield. Attackman David Ulrich and Tom Glatzel rank one and two. respectiYely on the points list for the Irish, while midlielder Todd Ulrich linished the year with 22 points -good for fourth on the points list. Glatzel and Ulrich have each been named Great Western Lacrosse League players of the week this year. 
Despite being called upon to play such a critical role in their f'irst NCAA tournament game, the sophomores am not nervous. 
"There are a lot of sopho­mores on the team and we have been put in pressure situations before," said Ulrich, who hails from Baltimore, Md. "I am a lit­tle nervous about playing at home in front of all my friends and family, but I am also deeply excited." 
The pressure situations and game experience that the sopho­mores have faced this year make their youth no longer a liability, according to Owen. 
"They are pretty much juniors now," he said. "They are really experienced. They have played in 15 games -including our scrimmages -so that's not going to be a problem. They are going to be excited about playing in front or a: big crowd in Maryland, but they will be ready." 
The sophomores have received veteran leadership from co-cap­tain Chris Dusseau. Dusseau has led the Irish in goals in each of his four years under tho Dome. This year he set a new career high with 31 goals. 
Dusseau has been especially deadly for goalies the past three games. After the team dropped three straight to Georgetown. Ilolstra and Ohio State, the lrish needed to win all ol' their last three games lo secure a bid in the NCAA tournament. 
Dusseau stepped up his play to a new levQl, scoring a career­...... high live goals in the 15-7 win over the Army. Just one week after his career-high perfor­mance, Dusseau scored a new career-high six goals in the 

lrish's l'irst-evor win over Massachus<'tts. Dussean earned his second GWLL player ol' the week honors of the year for his perl'ormance.. 
In the home finale for the seniors against llarvarrl, Dusseau added two more goals to give him 13 goals in bis last three regular season games. 
The hero ol' IJurvard game, however. was another sopho­morn. Midfielder Stevo Bishko scowd two goals in the last three minutes -including the game­winner with three seconds left ­to give the Irish a dramatic come-from-behind victory. 
Bishko was named GWLL 

Player of the Week for his hero­ics against Harvard. 
Against Georgetown in the first round of the tournament. the Irish will bP looking for reVfmgc afler an m1.rlicr loss to the 1-loyas. In their April 10 matr.h-up, the Irish jumped out to an 4-.1 first quarter lead before being out scored 11-4 over the last 45 minutes. 
"We have to concenlrato on playing f'or 60 minutes rather than just one half well." Ulrich said. "Georgetown is a really good team so it is goirig to take a full 60 minute effort." 
Despite being seeded behind Georgetown in the tournament, Notre Dame is conlidcnt that it ran defeat Georgetown in the lirst round, especially since the Irish have far.ed the lloyas already this year. 
"We are more confident, but we are not overly confident," Ulrich said. "We know that they are an excellent team and they have improvC'd since the last time we played them. So we know we havr, our hands full, but we are also confident in our­selves so we know we can beat them." 



CONGRATULATIONS BADIN SENIORS 
Marissa Carranza Marty Dickinson Katie Dillenburger Tiffany Edwards Mandy Fitzsimmons Dora Gomez Kelly Hanratty Mary Lagos Cherie Light Mia Madrigrano Megan Miller Elena Millner Chris Mullarky Natasha Neptune Diane Sabol Kizzie Walker Devin White Tammy Yu 
w

WWW F.
WWW¥ .WWW 
-
page 41 

Samreta excels in the water 
Photo courtesy of J1ni Cook Saint Mary's junior Michelle Samreta holds school records in the 100· and 200-yard breaststroke. 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Assistanr News Editor 
When junior Michelle Samreta heard her name announced as athlete of the year at the Saint Mary's varsity athletic banquet, she knew that 
slrn was step­ping into some big shrn~s. 
Following senior track standout and 

three-year winner Stacy Davis, Samreta wasn't sure she'd be able lo !ill them. 
"I was extremely surprised," said Samrota, a thrno-ycar var­sity swimmer. "It's an honor just to follow her -she is one of the most exCf~llent athletes to ever come through Saint Mary's. To even be considern<l to be close Lo that levcil is amazing." 
But following an athlete of Davis' caliber also gave Samreta a role model, she said. 
Campus View Apartments 
('(t)Q/(<!3~tA~ctt:e:Accra<L1Qf16:, <0CltACV~~(c~! ! 
* FURNISHED I AND 2 BEDROOM SPACIOUS APARTMENTS  
*LARGE CLOSETS  
*DECORATOR BLINDS ON ALL WINDOWS  
*TENNIS, VOLLEYBALL & BASKETBALL COURTS  
*WALKING DISTANCE TO NDU  
* FLEXIBLE LEASES AVAILABLE  
CALL TODAY!!~ (219)272-1441  
CAMPUSVIEW@MICHIANATODA Y.COM  MEMBER APARTMENT  
CHECK US OUT ON : rentnet.com  ASSOCITION OF INDIANA,INC.  

"Stacy has shown all Saint Mary's athletes what hard work and dedication can do," Samreta said. "I just want to be able to l'ollow lwr dedication." 
The award celebrates an ath­letfi who boasts NCM rankings, regional rankings, school records, a high level of perfor­mance in the regular season and academic and extra curricular achievement. 
Winning the award above nominees Julie Norman (basket­ball), .Ion Wagner (soccer), Erica Burkett (track), Suzanne Martin (volleyball), Angie Meyers (vol­ley ball) and 
/\gncs Bill (vol-major, was ! c y b a l I ) , , SHE HAS DONE A FABU-thn class trea­surer for stu­
S a m r (1 t a ' s LOUS JOB WITH LEAD-
edge came dent govern­from her over-ERSHIP BOTH IN AND OUT ment for the past two ynars
all achieve-OF THE WATER.' 
ment said and is involv1\d head swi.m-in Campus ming coach )/NI COOK Ministry and -Jini Cook. SWIMMING HEAD COACH t.ho nducation 
ics. as well as the MI/\A," said Samreta, who will learn lrnr sta­tus in August. "I laving a nation­al Saint Mary's rnproscntativo shows that Saint Mary's is seri­ous about sports, which we need," 
After breaking lmr own record in the 100-yard breastrokc twice and in the 200 breastrokn once, Samrnta linished the sea­son with a national ranking of 39th in the 100 hreastroke and fourth in the Ml/\/\ conference. She was also named co-MVI' f'or thn swim tnam. 
Samrnta, a junior elementary 
education 

"[Samrptal is a leader both in and out of the water," Cook said. "She has donn a fabulous job with leadership both in and out of thn water. She wants Saint Mary's voice to be heard both in the MIAA conf'eronce and nationally and that means a lot to Saint Mary's." 
Samrcta, who served as the vice president of the Student Athletic Council and the Saint Mary's 1998-99 MIAA student conference representative, is also running for the MIAA national representative to the NCA/\ for 1999-00. 
"The position gives greater visibility to Saint Mary's athlet­club. 
Samrota also co-sponsored tho Indiana Make­A-Wjsh foundation this past summer. 
Samreta will SMve as co-cap­tain of the Bolins swim tnam again rrnxt wintnr and looks to dPfond hnr school rncords for a third year. Broaking thf\m, how­ever, isn't her main goal. 
"If I don't gnt athlete of' the year, if I don't get MVP, if' I don't makn the pap11rs, I don't really care," Samrota said. "Thoy'rn great awards. but I just want to bnttor my times. My goal is to keep my mental focus. If' I can do that, I'll know that I did my bnst." 

Recycle The Observer 

... 
~~-;::.======:::::; 
FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
Frida , Ma 14, 1999 

-

-

FriJay, May 14, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 43 
SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULLIVAN HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
DAN Lt>AtJ WAKE IIP I OH I HAD THIS HOfl..Rt8L£ 
(~~~

a :;!;)i\tq,\~ 
., UL..O.....:..ic:;...U....,L.:." ----.~~-1L--~­

FOXTROT 
!Jt/D >io°J"-· 4VJ) You ACT(IALLY #ONE OF yov Wt:RE. 1HERE. 

CELEIIRITIES BORN ON THIS a11 end lo ii 00 UAY: David llyrne, George Lucas, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your DJnny Wood, Alida Bay Laurel. Tom dietary habits may need a bil of Cochrane adjusting. rr you haven't been feeling Happy Birthday: Take charge of well latdy, it may be due lo your life~ vour life and forge into the limelight style or something you're consuming. ivhere you belong. Use your charm 00000 and you will get others to do things LlllRA (Sept. 2.3-0ct. 22): The tor you. Find as much information as time to get oul and expt•nencc new possible pertaining to your interests things is now Move and groove with and vou will be sitting in a pretty your newfound friends. Learn from good p<>Sition. Be careful whom you the company you keep, but don't trust and keep your secrets to ,·our­sp,,nd too much trving to keep up. self this year Your numbers: 5, 19, 24, 000 33, 42, 47 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You ARIF.S (March 21-April 19): You need some time to yourself, but if you netd to get to know more prnm1mmt neglect your mate, you're likely to people. Networking clubs or orp,ani­end up in a dispute. Try to talk him or zations will hL'lp you m0el some key her into a day of rest and relaxation players Ill )'our field. You can get for two. 000 ahead if you're given a chanct to SAGl"ITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21>: ,how vour worth. 000 Choose your words wisely. Some TA.URUS (April zo-May 20): The family members will not agrec with changes happening all around you you. Gossip will create problems. can't be that bad. Take a second look. Don't twist words around or exaggcr­Thcre is probably an opcmn11 for you ate. You're not likely to win in the 1f vou arc willing to take on a chal-l'liU. 000 lenge. Uon'tsell yourself short. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 'four Empty promises will cause fnct,on. abstract way of l<loking at things will You can make things work if you he mighty attractive t" someone with don't rely on others to help or sup­vision. Ooi,'t hold back. Stat•• rnur port your ,1clions. Limited financial beliefs, and don't worry about tho!Se funds may stifle your plans. 00000 who think )'Ou'r(' ahead of your tim~. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 000 , Ymu: crral)c behavior will ll'avc your CANCER (June ~J-July,_22)Ji fap!lil} fL.le1inr, unccftain'al'd con­Dcpress,on rc1~ardingolder ·rcfatives -fuscir'Tf)-io ex~itf)"biit acflms'llnd will be upsetting. Don 'I lake 011 tl,e let them know that you need a little familv's responsibility by yo,irself. time to yourself. 00 Enlist the hdp of others even it you PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Rela­haw to bully them into it. 0000 lives will cause probl<'ms. You have to LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your part· slick up for the one you love if you ncr's mood ~wings arc c,rnsing y()u want to avoid a confrontation later gnet. It's not easy lo live with the on. [)on't act impulsively. Size up the uncertainty that your lover mav not ,;iloation and calmly stale your ,,·ant you anymore. You may ha,e to tlwughts. 0000 play his or h~r game in order to put  
.¦ OF INTEREST ,r Sabor Latino congratulates all seniors and invites all ~graduates, parents and friends to a dance and concert Saturday at 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Admission is free. The event is co-sponsered by the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. ·  
_, The Observer congratulates •all seniors and wishes them success in their future endeavors.  

AN[) 1F yov CAN'T Po1NT 
our NorRf: !)AME _j fAl)l"T'; B'/ rH£ 11M€. vou <iRI\DvA.-rc, 
yov REALLY HAVErl'i L€ARN€1) ;uJYfH1AIC, AT AL..t.. 

HILL AMEND 


DILBERT 
I ti.fw\ ONLY AN INTE.RN, BUT MAY l MA. KE. A SUGGESTION? 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Red-wh1te-and­blue inits 
1 Thumb• 
28 Information

1w1ddling 
bank 

5 Leapfrogs 
32 Passing notice? 10 --Bator, 
35 King of the

Mongolia 
Jungle 14 Make airtight 
37Whata 15 -a1Ime lumberjack (singly) leaves behind 16 "Cleopatra" 38 River to the Rio backdrop Grande 11 "Yes1" 40 SSW's opposite 11 Darling 41 Like a haunted 20Sendak's 
house "Where the Wild 42 Skyward 
Things-" 43Persian­21 Composer Sal1e 45 Person to go out 22 Soviet leader 
with Brezhnev 48 Round Table 24 Semiautoma11c 
knight rifle 48 C.1.0. 's partner 2& Land of the so Skip llama s1 "Don't move!" 
;._NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
E R 
V E E S 

Scon· ADAMS 
ar::::==============::-iQr-----::==::::===~, 
~ 
0 .I .. 
SJ 
"' a 
" 
..0 ,.. 
.... 
0 
u 
"' 

Tl-IE ELBON!AN DA.T~BASE. SYSTEM YOU'RE. IN~Tf.l.LL­
INC:. FOP--OUR. COMPANY 
WILL NE.VE.I\ WOR.K.... 
UNLE55 I REWRITE THE.. 
ENTIRE THING WIT\-\ 
JUST SIX 

--+-=+':..+:o~ 11 Mortgage EU 12J~­R I -=-iiii,,1,,iii,,i,i,.I 13 Uncool one 
H'::-f'-+..:+=~ 18 Arrival gifts m Honolulu 23 Remove, as 
H ....._.-=-+-c+~ fc-:+:::+T:::+:T~ marks -2" "Yes!" 
IN """".:,..+:..:+=+::-UE .._.
N o R N 26 See 51-Down 
E L R O U N D 28 Coffee break snad R A M A S S E S 29 Glow 
55 Snake-haired woman of myth 58 35-Across's sound 59 --~-de France 60 Walkie-talkie word 
61 "Yes1" 64 Needles· partner 65 Train making all 
stops 66 Med school subj. 67 Otherwise 68 Manicurist's 
board 69 Optimistic 
DOWN 
1 Writer Asimov 2 Actress Winger 3 Tattoo remover 4 "Xanadu" rock 
grp. s Diary 6 Loosen. as a 
knot 7 Overly docile e Chum 9 Sharp-pointed 
instrument 10 "Yes!" 
\<..E.Y5TR0\<..£.5 ••• 


P.uz.zle-by Gregory E. Paul 
30 Slugged, old-style 31 Sportsman·s blade 32 October's birthstone 33Composer 
Bartok 34 PC picture 36 Fort Knox unit 39Chemes· 
leftovers , 44 So as to cause 
death 47Apt 49 Raise crops 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name 
Address • 
City ________State ____ Zip______ 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friclay, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The ( >IJserver in your home. 
"  l THOUGHT  \.\E.'(, Lt.T'S  
~  THI$ WA5  HACK INTO  
!  ONLY  NATO'S  5'<5TEM.  
U> ~  PO$$IBLE  I CAN GUE55  
!  tN BAD  THE.l~ PA';SW0P-O  
MOVIE.~.  IN 1141\E[ 1RIE5.  

-
-

51 With 26-0own, a rooftop energy device 
52 Elton John's inslrument 
53 Arm bones 54 Not handling criticism well 
55 Brood 56 Like Darth Vader 57 Cub Scout 
groups 58 Derby 62-Kippur 63 Something to 
lend or bend 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone. 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
-


·­
,l 
-
-
.... 

~THE 
\J~SERVER 
¦ FOOTBALL 
Jackson leads Irish to Jacksonville 


PORTS 
By TIM CASEY Sports Writer 
Returning from a mediocre 7-6 sea­son and an off-season marred with off­the-field controversy, Notre Dame faced a 1998 season full of questions about whether head coach Bob Davie and first-year starter Jarious Jackson could handle pressure. 
To make matters worse, the season began with a showdown with defend­ing NationaL·ChaQij!ion Michigan. The Wolverines returned nine starters from a defense that allowed a paltry 
9.5 points per game on its way to a perfect 12-0 record. Ranked fifth in The Associated Press preseason poll, the Wolverines came into Notre Dame stadium confident that they could plow through the Irish. 
Notre Dame, however, proved them wrong. From Autry Denson's 58-yard run on the first Irish offensive play to an improbable 35-yard touchdown pass from Jackson to Raki Nelson that gave the Irish a 10-point lead in the third quarter, the day belonged to the Irish. 
"At some point, you better step up and win a big game ... and this con­firms to the players that this will work," said Davie following the 36-20 victory. "This is the biggest win I've ever had, right here." 
The following week against Michigan State the tides turned for the 10th­ranked Irish. After a 45-23 loss to the 0-2 Spartans, people questioned the strength of the Irish. 
Davie was noticeably distraught with his team's performance, particularly after letting up 42 first-half points. 
'Tm embarrassed; this football team's embarrassed," said Davie after the game. "There's not going to be a whole lot of talk about it. I think we came in here expecting to play well 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Shelia McMillan set a new record for three-point shooting as she rewrote the Irish Autry Denson became the all-time leading rusher in Notre Dame history with 4,318record book en route to leading Notre Dame to its best regular season in history. yards to surpass Allen Pinkett. 
McMillen sets standard Denson rushes his way into for long-range excellence Irish legend, record books 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports F.ditor 
While the Notre Drune women's basket­ball team wasn't able to make it back to the Sweet 16 of the NCAA tournament, Sheila McMillen led the Irish to their most successful regular season in history. 
The shooting guard served as the lone captain on Mutret McGraw's squad and set several school records on her way to earning second-team all-Big East honors. 
McMjllen was among the national lead­ers in two categories, finishing fourth in three-point field goals made and eighth in and we didn't. We had no chance because of our execution." 
The Irish responded from the defeat at Michigan Siate in a 31-30 home vic­tory against Purdue. The win began a charge that would see the Irish record eight-straight victories. 
Every game a different player seemed to step up his game. Against Purdue, Tony Driver's two intercep­tions in the final minutes put the Irish in position to mount a dramatic come­back. 
·It was the fullbacks' turn to shine in the next two victories. Jamie Spencer's career-high 80 yards rushing pro­pelled the Irish to a 35-17 victory over Stanford. Joey Goodspeed gained 109 yards on four carries in sweltering heat and a hostile environment in a 28-9 drubbing at Arizona State. 
"It was old fashioned Notre Dame football," said Goodspeed after the vic­tory. "This is what we're used to play­ing and it feels good to just go out and dominate a team like that." 
Sanson proved to be the hero against Army. After a see-saw battle, his career best 48-yard field goal with 
1:06 left on the clock clinched the 20­17 Irish victory. 
The-two mainstays on offense, Denson and Jackson led the charge against Baylor on Halloween. Denson turned in a stellar performance, tally­ing a career-best 189 yards in the 27-3 Irish win. Jackson utilized his multi­dimensional game with 199' total yards, including 66 on the ground. 
The following week's 31-26 win against Boston College will be remem­bered for the goal-line struggle that became known as "The Stand." 
With the ball on the one-yard line and four downs for the Eagles to score the decisive touchdown, the defense 
.see FOOTBALL/ page 25 
New Man in the House 
¦ The replacement ofJohn MacLeod by Matt Doherty highlighted an up-and­down season for the men's basketball team. 
p.32 

The Observer/ Jeff Hsu Senior fullback Jamie Spencer was the hero of the Stanford game as he rushed for a career-high 80 yards in Notre Dame's 35-17 victory over the Cardinal. 
free throw percentage. By MIKE CONNOLLY 
The senior standout constantly brought Associate Sports Editor fans to their feet at the Joyce Center with her deadly jump shot. McMillen Passing such greats as Georgeeclipsed Beth Morgan to enter the Irish Gipp, Jerome Bettis and Allen record book for career three-pointers and Pinkett, Autry Denson amassed 1,176 
most threA-pointers in a season. yards to raise his career total to 
McMillan averaged 15.4 points per 4,318 yards and become the all-time game in her senior season and was leading rusher in Notre Dame foot­selected to compete in the State Farm ball history. Women's Three-Point Shooting The senior from Lauderhill, Fla., Championship during the Final Four. She emerged as an offensive threat his hac; also been invited to attend the 1999 freshman year when he picked upUSA Women's University Games Trials to 695 yards and started three games.
be held May 19-24. His sophomore campaign marked his first of three 1,000-yard seasons. In four years under the Dome, he scored 43 touchdowns, good for second place all-time. His 15 touchdowns in 1997 were the fourth most ever by an Irish player in a single season. 
During his record-breaking romp, Denson picked up numerous awards. The Associated Press honored him as a second-team All-American while Football News named him an honor­able mention All-American. He was also recognized as one of six semifi­nalists for the Doak Walker award as the top tailback in the country. 




