Floridians Fleeing Floyd's Fury 
Singing Loudly 
Tuesday

!Jnrricane Floyd forces Florida residents lo 
Notre Dame band Umphrey's McGee graduates 
evacuate. threatening the region wilh 155 
to the big time. Scene sits down and jams with 
SEPTEMBER 14,

milP-per-lwllr winds and heavy rains. 
keyboard player Joel Cummins. 
page 9 
page 12 
1999 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 16  HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU  
Symposium evaluates  KATMANDU  
sweatshop labor  

Hy MAGGY TINUCCI 
New, \Vri1<·1 
Tht• l111ivPrsily's sy111posi11111 on swPu Ishops lwgan Monday night. lligl1lighli11g l'fotrP lla111p's lt•ad('J"ship rol1• in thl' 11utio11al 11111v1•11wnt. 
""This is a u11iq1w opportunity J'or tlw Notn· l>anw r1J1m11 unity Lo takr a dos<•r look at tlw SWPatshop issuP in all arndPmir Sl'tling," said Bill Iloyn. Univ1•rsity C:01111st>I and task l'on·1• chair. · 
"Tlw dt>ball' and 1·.onvnrsalion in this rlass will allow tlw task form to makP mnrc> inl'ornw!I. rPprPs<•nlativn r1•1·1JJllllll'fHiations to !Univ!'rsity pn•sidP11ll l-atlwr 11•:dwardl Malloy."" said lloyP. 
ComprisPd of six IP<'lurns. Lim sym­posium. whirh <'an bl' laknn for class n ,, dil. w i11 Io o k a L Lh (1 co m p I nx issuPs facing tlw Univ,•rsity's task forn~ as it aims to Pliminal1! tlw usn or swPatshop labor in tlw manufac­tun· of Notn• Damp appard. 
Tlw task l'or1•p looks at the ethical. moral and rt>ligious issuPs tlrn swnat­shop quPstion raisns, nspncially at. a Catholic uniVl'rsity such as Notn1 llanw. 
'Tach univPrsity must advis1· and idPnlify its own nioral rnt!P. But is a cod,, sul'lici1•nt'! I low can you 01wra­Lion al izP your moral cod1• in Lim husinPss w;irld'?" askPd Iloyn. 
Thn Univnsily's Lask f'orc,• has hP<'ll drnrg1•d with a11sw,iring llrnsn (jlll'Stions. 
Carol Kaf'SPbiPr. NotrP llanw's g1•11Nal rnunsPI and t·o-chair of tlw Fl.A's univPrsity rotmsnl. has hnPn a lt>adt•r in llw swnalshop issue si1H:<1 I<J<H,, wlwn tlw Clinton administrn­tio11 for11wd tlw Fair Labor 
Association to inl'nrrn ronsumers and protect workers worldwide. 
"Tlrny n\nliznd tlw very strong rl'lationship universitins had with llwir licnnsons would help to bring fartoriPs to thii tabln," said ha1isnbinr. 
Notrn Damo, an FIA momber, wus tlw first univPrsity lo adopt an indn­pn nden t moral code rngarding swPaLshops. Tlrnl code. signed in 11arly 11)97 as a contract between Notn• Dame and its busi1rnss part­nnrs. becamo a model for other uni­\l!'rsities. 
1\s a way lo improve the code's Hnl"orceability. tlrn task force solicited disrnssion from pri11sts. labor loaders and human rights leaders. It then hirnd an outside monitoring entity. 
"PricnwaterhouseCoopers was a lirst step to monitor the codp's com­pliance," lloyesaid. 
Tlrny arr able to do both random audit inspections and specific visits al the University's request. 
"It gives us tlrn lhrndom to din\ct wh<1n and whern to determine where tlw risk is Hrn gn~atcst, as wnll as lrnlping to improve tho enforcemnnt capability or our code," said lloye. 
Although Notre Dame follows its own monitoring processes through l'ric1\watPrhousd:oopers, a main responsibility of the FLA is to decid1i which factories s!1rving its 121 mmn­bnr univ,!rsities will bn monitored. 
"Tho companies suggest factories to be monilorecl. but it is up to thn Fl.A to dm:ide. Non-governmental organizations. companies and uni­versities help to make this decision, based on risk and what their exprri.­1rn c11 in those areas has been," Kaesebier said. 
see FACTORIES/page 4 





CLC discusses diversity program for residence halls 

By FINN PRESSLY Assistant News Editor 

A new diversity program is headed for the residence halls this semester, accord­ing to David Moss, assistant vice-president for Student Affairs. 
"What we're coming to now is the culmination of a year's planning," said Moss, who addressed the Campus Life Council at the invitation of stud1)nt body vice-president Michael Palumbo. 
At the core of the pro­gram is a team of 29 stu­dm1t "facilitators" who rep­resent all racial back­grounds on campus. 
These facilitators cur­
rently are enrolled in a one-credit psychology class that addresses many "isms" of modern society: clas­sism, sexism and racism, among others. Thr, last three weeks of tho class are devoted to planning the logistics of "diversity expe­riences" -evening discus­sions intended to lrngin a continuing diversity initia­tive in the residence halls. 
"Wo don't want this ini­tial step to be Urn end of the conversation of diversi­ty on campus," ho said. "Our hope is ... next yP.ar, it won't just be a frnshman program. There will be a number of programs in the hall dMling with diversity." 
Though the program c,ur­rently is aimed specifically 
at freshmen, Moss expects the "fallout effect'" from the program Lo filter through the halls to every student. 
Hall Presidents Council en-president Brian Higney said a round-table discus­sion on diversity in Keenan Hall last ynar had a positivo effect on the participants. lie praised the new pro­gram. 
"I like tlrn way you'rn get­ting students involved," Higney said. 
"For Korman that work11d groat," Moss said. "IThel program I will be I tailonid specifically l'or each indi­vidual hall. Each hall has a certain dorm atmosphere. 
"We will make, I think, a 
see CLC/page 4 page2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, September 14, 1999 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Why ARE w-e here? 
I have no idea what I'm doing next year. I've seen the flyers, I've been to the earner fairs, I've spent hours contemplating my 
options and networking on the Internet. Yet, nothing seems right. 
While I was opening my mail the othPr dav. a healthy dose of reality greeted me in the friendly form of my loan statement. It details just how far in debt I'll be when I get my little piece of paper in May, how long I have before this debt is due and just how much the payments will be. It was at this point that I proceeded to panic. 
What am I doing here? Why did I sweat blood to finance a liberal education 

Colleen Gaughen 
Viewpoint editor 
that will leave me so deeply in debt -with no way out? Why do I struggle to make ends meet to study literature and history when l will prob­ably never apply what I'm learning'? 
It hit me whN1 I was having coffee with a friend of mine. She was unhappy in he1· major, but stuck it out because she knew she would gPt a high-salary job after graduation. She told me that if she had had a choice, she would have chosen a much more impractical field of study, like mine. 
But she did have a choice. We all do. 
l don'"t know how or why or when, but some­where between the rat race to get into college and the great exodus to get out of it, the focus of why we are here has shifted from simply gaining a liberal education to using it as a springboard to a career. What happened to learning for the sake of learning'? 
You can call me an idealist. you can call me a dreamer. you can even call me unemployed if you like, but when you ask me if I'm truly happy with the choices I've made about what to study here. I'm going to tell you yes. 
What's the point of going to class if all you do throughout its duration is silently will the clock to tick faster? I can understand this if you didn't finish the reading for that day, of course, but not if you are that perpetually unhappy. Have you ever taken a moment to ask yourself why ARE you here'? 
Instead of concentrating our energy on what we will do and where we will be next year, we need to embrace the moment and remember why we are here now. And we need to enjoy it, because the minute we wish it away, it's gone, and we can never get it back. 
Worry about tomorrow when tomorrow comes. It's OK if you have no clue what you're doing next year. Do what you love, and the career will follow. What do you have to look forward to if your whole life is planned out for you, step by step'? That's the best part, the not­knowing, the discovering-as-you-go. You never know what you're going to read that very well may alter your whole way of thinking, or who you're going to meet that very well may alter your whole heart. 
l may be broke, I may be in debt, and l very well may be unemployed next May, but you can bet your boots I'll be happy. I will be able to look back on my time here and say that all the blood, sweat and tears were worth it -not because it got me a job, but because of what I learned and how I grew. 
And in the end. that's all that really matters. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Noreen Gille.pie Emmett Malloy I.aura Rompf Jenn Zatorski Kate Steer 
Graphics 
Sports 
Amy Crownover 
Molly McVoy 


Production 
Viewpoint 
Karhleen O'Brien Lila Haughey Lab Tech Joe Stark 
The Ol,scrvcr (USl'S 59~ 2•4000) is published Mo1Jday ,hrough Friday except during c:"Um and vac.:arion periods. The Ob;1.ervcr is a member of the Associated Pres.\, AH rcproducnon right.s are reserved. 

QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"Last year I ju st  "You, as students,  
came to get fre e  andfuture business  
pens, but this y ear  leaders, need an  
I'm serious."  improved perception  
ofthe labor  
Jasclnt Vukelic h  movement."  
junior business ma jor  
on career forum  John Sweeney  
President of AFL-CIO  

"Ifyou go to prison for the right reasons, you are.free, and I'll be going back 

Father Roy Bourgeois founder of the School of The Americas Watch 
"Modesty is integrating your hopes and integrating what you want into your life." 
Wendy Shalit author 

Compiled from U-Wire reports 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Wisconsin students protest tuition increase 
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
University of Wisconsin student leaders met Sunday to make final plans for a WPdnesday walkout in protest of tuition increases. 
Outraged by the 9.6 percent tuition increase from last year's rate, more than 50 student organizations are uniting to encourage studPnt action. Organizers are encouraging students to walk out or classes at 12:30 µ.m. amt gather on Library Mall. 
'This walkout is to get the attention of the state Legislature," said Tshaka Barrows, an ASM representative. "This is not an attack on the faculty or the university." 
As state legislators struggle to pound out a budget, state Senate Majority Leader Chuck Chvala, D­Madison, has advocated a tuition freeze after rolling back tuition to 1998-1999 levels. Walkout organizers 
"Tuition is the one issue that affects everyone." 
Tshaka Barrows ASM representative 
bP!ieve that Chvala's efforts need to be backed by strong support from the student body. 
Associated Students of "vladison Chair Adam Klaus said the budget will affect tuition levels. If the Legislature were to increase funding for the University of Wisconsin System, the UW System Board of Regents could then institute a tuition frneze if they chose, he said. 
The timing of the protest has been carefully calculated, Barrows said. 
Sweatshop activists clash with officals 
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA 
In a letter delivered to interim Chancellor William McCoy's office Tuesday, labor advocates at the University of North Carolina at Chapel llill lambast­ed the school's administration for perceived backpedaling on commitments made last year fol­lowing a four-day sit-in, University officials, howev­er, insisted that the school remains firmly committed to improving the working conditions in factories where UNC apparel is made. McCoy issued a brief response Wednesday that acknowledged receipt of the students' letter. I-le wrote that he forwarded the letter to the Licensing Labor Code Advisory Committee, so the group could "provide me with its advice on the issues." Todd Pugatch, a UNC-CH junior, said he appreciated the McCoy's prompt response, but said he still thinks UNC-CH may have backed off on demanding disclosure of factory addresses. "If McCoy had earlier demonstrated a firm commitment to a disclosure deadline ... this would not be an issue now," he said. adding that he looks forward to working with the chancellor. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperature, 
t•,,.~~· _..  ~.•..••••••><••m••»H••••Hh•••••..  •• H  L  
Tuesday  68~  ., -,,.-,/f~ 51  
Wednesday  67~  51  
Thursday  67~  46  
Friday,  1)-. 67  47  

Sat~r~ay ~ 71 
t~~ ...,~ 
' V 

4,~,4-P'@Q {) 
Showers T-storms Ram Flumes Snow fee Sunny V;a Associaied PrflSs GraphicsNet 
50 

~ u 
Pr Cloudy Cloudy 
"According to Gov. Tommy Thompson, the budget is supposed to be done by October, so this may be our last opportunity to inf'luencc them," Rarruws said. 
Wednesday has also been des-ignat­cd as a student-action day all across the state by the United Council, an organization that lobbies on behalf of UW System students. As schools !'rum UW-La Crosse to UW-Milwaukee plan protest actions, UW-Madison organiz­ers are calling fur school-wide unity. 
In a show of broad-based support. leaders from student groups including the Alliance for Democracy, La Colectiva Cultural de Aztlan, Black Student Union, Civil Rights Defense Coalition and Wunk Sheek attended the meeting. 
"Tuition is the one issue that affects everyone," Barrows said. "All of us are doing this as students." 
Students upset over use of tear gas 
COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Three days after hundreds ol' celebratory Colorado State University students and fans were teargassed at Mile High Stadium, Denver Police continue to ardently defend their use ol' force, saying fans in CSU's student section were "ranting and raving" and unruly. In the seconds following CSU's surprise victo­ry over the 14th-ranked University ol' Colorado. Denver police of!icers, donning riot gear, unleashed tear gas on the predominantly student crowd in the northeast section of the stadium. Fans sitting up to 20 rows back were clinging to one another in agony and collapsing in the aisles. Police also sprayed a group of huddling cheerleaders and CSU band mem­bers who were playing the fight song. i>at Conners, a sophomore CSU band member, said he barely made it through the second run of the light song when the tear gas hit him. "People in front of' me started putting their instruments down and coughing. I fin­ished the song and that's when the gas hit me." he said. "The police were all buddy-buddy and patting each other on the back." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

90& 

FRONTS: <O 1999 AccuWeethe-r, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
........... -----~ 
Pre!tfilrf 
® © CJ ~ D. Ezl' 0 Q~ <i~,
. .
High Low Showers R~ln T-storm1> Fl1,1rrh~9 Snow rce Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vta ASSQCIB!Bd PrQ:,S 
Aspen GS 28 Fargo 59 40 Loursv,lle 78 55 Austin 92 64 Great Falls 69 43 New York 80 68 Baton Rouge 85 64 Kansas City 71 50 Oakland 70 56 Bloomrngtoo 75 51 Le Mars 63 42 Pasadena 92 63 Dallas 87 61 Little Rock 82 58 Phoenix 105 80 
Tuesday, September 14, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
DeNoble: Tobacco industry chooses money over lives 

University of Notre Dame lnternatronal 

,., .... 
Study Program 
I
'" ...,.. 
}1 
~ 





~, ~ 
-~-; ,;,.;:-· . -ic:.,1 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
Information Meeting With Professor Hannelore Weber 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 14, 1999 
4:30 PM 126 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: DECEMBER 1, 1999 


Surf on in. http://observer.nd. edu 
By KRISTEN ALLEN 
Nc:wsWritc:r 
Victor DeNoble, a former roscarcher for Philip Morris and a key witness in the federal government's case against the tobacco industrv. shared his findings Monday night. 
DeNoble said Im hoped his story would help students real­ize the importance of leader­ship and policy making. 
Philip Morris, a tobacco com­pany in Va., lirst approached DcNoble in l 979 when he was doing post-doctorate work at the Univ11rsity of Minnesota. According to DeNohlP, the com­pany had discovered that nico­lino was killing t:,8,000 of their customers p()r year. 
Ile explained that Phillip Morris began a secret project in 1<J70 to remove nicotine from cigarettes. By the time the com­pany approached DeNoble in 1979. its researchers had uccornplished that goal. But. DoNoble said, Philip Morris was afraid sales would drop if they removed nicotine from their cigarnttns. DnNoble's job was to find a synthetic drug that would possess the same addictive qualities of nicotine without the 
carcinogenic side ellects. DeNoble's laboratory was on the third lloor of Philip Morris. 
"The third floor was where you stepped olT the elevator and all the windows were painted black, all the doors had special passes, all the rats that came in for our experiments came in at four o'clock in the morning, and not more than 50 people in the whole world, 25 people in that 
building knew that [we] had  a  
laboratory inside," he said.  
In 1981, DcNoble found  a  

molecule that had no cardiovas­cular complications. The r.om­pany could make these nico­tine-free cigarettes for about an extra five cents per pack. This change, however, would cost Philip Morris too much in the loss of' sales for its other types of' cigarettes, DeNoble said. 
"They chose money over the lives of literallv millions of Americans,'' he said. 
DeNoble and his colleague, Paul Mclcs, were fired in April or J984, soon after they brought their findings to tlrn attention of the company. They were reminded of their life-long privacy agremnent and sent on their way. 
Before they left, DeNobie and Moles stole all the research they had done. This included files and slides they kept as evi­dence of their work at Philip Morris. 

The pair contactml a lawym· in Richmond, Va., who con­vinced them that their files would be much safer with him. Two weeks later the lawyer called to say he'd been robbed. 
The slides. howiwer, weru stored in DeNobli!'s basmnent, and DeNohle sent them to the Food and Drug Administration. 
DcNoblo's work was just beginning. The government needed him as a witness in their case against tho tobacco industry. 
"My wife and I w11rc being held in a warnhouse in Washington, D.C. We wnro kopt at tho warol11ius11 for two wneks by rmimhers of tlw secret ser­v i cc and the FBI," Im said. "Tlrny [the FBI! estimated that thn potential l'or nm to bo killod, !'or thes11 guys to !ind nw bd'orn the time I tcstif'icd, would bo around 85 to <JO pnrcent." 
DeNohle went on to tostil'y bef'orn Congress and tlrn FDA. Ile has appnarnd on numerous television programs with his story, including 60 Minutes. Datelin,1 and This Week with David Brinkley. 

College plans rummage sale 
. Sale proceeds benefit local charities 
By COURTNEY BOYLE 
New, Writer 
In preparation for the lrnginning of' the P{Hf"orma Mastnr Plan, Hngina IIall will hold a rummage sale lo both cl1•ar the building and raise funds l'or local charities. 
Specific storage rooms must 
be cleaned out to make more room to house architects, hold meetings and post draw­ings of the master plan. 
Currently these rooms are filled with old office furni­ture, chairs and desks -a variety of items that have been collected over the years. 
"It's mostly pretty old stuff," said Keith Dennis, vice president for Financo and Administration. 
"People noed places to put things when they get new things. This is in hopes then1 will be a use for it later," said 

WantA Challenge? 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force Officer Training School. There you will become a commissioned officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enjoy great pay, complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year, 
plus the opportunity to travel and 
AIM HIGH see the world. To discover how high a career in the Air Force can take you, call 1-800-423-USAF, or visit our website at www.airforce.com 

www.airforce.com 

Dennis, explaining why tho storage rooms wnrn imple­mented. 
"IThe rummage sale] is not going to cover our expenses, but what wn'rn going to do is share Ithn monny raisnd I with thn charitablo groups that wn ro going to Im Ip us with tho moving," said lh1nnis. 
Charilins that ol"fornd to lrnlp mnvn the left ovnr itmns includn tlrn ll011wl11ss Sliell!ir and Saint Vincnnt DnPaul. In addition to recniving monny, tho charities also got to take any or thn leftover itnms at 
the end of' tlrn day. 
A variety of' itoms hav11 
been coll;ictPd over the 
years and storPd in these 
rooms in the basement of' 
llegina. Designated staf'f 
membflrs will have the 
opportunity to claim valu­
abln items on Sept. 13, 14 
and 15 from 9 a.m. until 5 
p.m. Any items not taknn by professors for usn in thn departments will then go on sale to the public Sept. 24. 
The sale will tak11 place Sept. 24, from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m., on the lawn north of' the Facilities Building. 

--· --­

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 14, 1999 

Factories 
continued from page 1 
The !-'LA has a code of con­duct, "a minimum of what par­ticipating universities must adopt," according to Kaesebier, 
Notre Dame may consider amending its code after a lrip to El Salvador this summer where representatives obtained firsthand information about factory conditions. The group realized that including human rights organizations and church leaders in the PricewaterhouseCoopers moni­toring system would provide greater credibility, Hoye said. 
"They would help ensure us the factories are upholding the code," he explained. 
The task force is considering the living wage issue, primarily asking whether Notre Dame should require its factories to provide a living wage for its employees. said Hoye. 
"International law doesn't set a living wage," said Hoye. 
Notre Dame's code, however requires its factories to match or exceed the current minimum wage in the area. 
Another issue facing the task force is public disclosure of Notre Dame's manufacturing sites. 
''Some believe disclosure will add pressure to the factories to comply with the codes because of the possibility of spontaneous visits. but others question whether it would have any impact on improving workers' lives," said Hoye. 
Making sure workers have the right to form unions is the last issue of task force debate. 
"This depends on whether local law affords workers a legal right to organize," explained I-loye. Notre Dame's code currently does not include this. 
Notre Dame has approxi­mately 200 licenses, which translates to thousands of fac­tories that need to be moni­tored. 
The symposium continues Sept. 27 with "Catholic Teaching and Sweatshops." 

Officials argue pageant standards 
Associated Press 
ATLANTIC CITY 
ln a stunning departure from tradition, the Miss America Pageant has lifted ils ban on women who are divorced or have had an abortion, The Associated Press has learned. 
The board of the Miss America Organization voted last month lo drop the 49­year-old rule.The change takes effect nexL year. 
Fear of violating New Jersey's discrimination laws spurred the change. accord­ing to courtdocuments obtained Monday. 
Since 1950, contestants have had to swear they had never been married and never been pregnant in order to vie for the rhinestone crown and thousands of dol­lars in scholarship money. 
The new rules would require simply that they sign a document saying "I am unmarried" and "I am not pregnant and I am not the natural or adoptive parent of any child." 

That would open the door to divorced women, women who had had abortions and women who had children who later died. 
Pageant chief executive Robert Beck sent new con­tracts to state pageant direc­tors in August notifying them of the change. Beck and other pageant officials declined requests forcom­mcnt. 
Beck, who took over the top job last fall, told the state pageants to have contestants in this year's pageant ­scheduled for Saturday at Convention Hall -sign the new contracts as a condition of competing for the title of Miss America 2000. 
The state pageants went to court to fight the change, and the Miss America Organization agreed to back off for this year. But the board approved the change for next year. 
"Miss America has a long history of high moral stan­dards and traditions, and I'm opposed to anything that changes that," said Libby Taylor, executive director of the Miss Kentucky Pageant and president of the National Association of Miss America State Pageants. 
Leonard Horn, the long­time CEO of the pageant who stepped down last year after 30 years with the organiza­tion, said the rule change was a mistake. 
Noting that "There She ls," the song that has been used to serenade the tearful win­ner as she walks the runway at Convention Hall, calls Miss America "your ideal," l·Iorn said allowing women who have had abortions or divorces is inconsistent with that. 



Gore seeks support front organized labor 
George W. Bush, want to of working families we can Latinos made uponly 3 1/2 Associated Press force unions to get approval create a future that's worthy percent of last year's movie from members before spend­of our children," Gore said. and television roles -and 
NASHVILLE ing any of their dues on polit­Gore hopes to gain the "that's unacceptable tome." 
Democratic presidential icalendeavors. endorsement of the AFL-CIO Earlier, in Tennessee, candidate Al Gore reached Gore told delegates "the at the labor federation's Curtis Burnett, president of out to organized labor single most important invest­nationalconvention in the local stage hands' union Monday. telling delegates to ment in the future is bringing October. Earlier this month in Memphis, said he's leaning the Tennessee AFL-CIO con­about revolutionary improve­in Iowa, Gore walked side-toward Gore in the vention that he will work to ments in by-side with Democratic primary race but protect the rights of unions p u b I i c AFL-ClO has yet to make up his mind. and improve education and schools, "By joining heads and secretary­"But if Mr. Bradley has got job-training programs. opening treasurer more on the ball than Mr.
hearts and working on 
The vice president did not doors to Richard Gore, I'll have to go for him," mention his Democratic colleges behalfofworking Trumka, Burnett said. "I don't lock opponent, former New Jersey and tech­f amities we can create a who spoke myself in on one person. I've Sen. Bill Bradley, who also is no Io g y approvingly got a family to look after."
future that's worthy of
courting union support. schools, of Gore's bid Instead, Gore focused his and making our children." for the rhetoric against the it possible Democratic Republican-controlled to have life­presidential
Al Gore
Congress. long learn­nomination.
presidential candidate
"The first step we have to ing." Gore flew take, which I strongly sup­He said back to port, is to get rid of this strik­unions have Washington er replacement tactic," Gore long led the late Monday said as the audience of about fight for businesses to pro­evening to court Hispanic 300 stood and cheered. vide on-the-job training to voters at a gala for the Current law allows compa­help workers keep up with National Hispanic Foundation nies to hire permanent technological improvements, for the Arts. The vice presi­replacements for workers but "the country has to face dent told the group he shared who strike. up to this trend." the organization's mission of 
"We also need to defeat the Gore also asked for union reaching the day when "our so-called paycheck decep­assistance in the fight over American culture fully tion, which they're trying to how to spend the nation's reflects the full diversity of pass," Gore said as the ova­budget surplus and in America." tion continued. reforming health care. Gore also deplored the lack 
Republicans, including GOP "By joining heads and of diversity in the main­presidential front-runner hearts and working on behalf stream media. He said 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
tremendous impact on the stu­dent body," he concluded. 
In other CLC news: 
• The council approved the nomination of the CLC parlia­mentarian Dan Peate. Former parliamentarian Stephen Sanchez resigned recently due to a schedule conflict that pre­vented him from attending meetings. Sanchez will contin­ue to serve as Student Senate parliamentarian. 


Kevin Sharpe 
PIANIST 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 14, 1999 
7:30 PM LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office 
284-4626 


Millennial/Fin de siecle series 
1. Opening Event Thursday, September 16, 1999, 7:00-11 :00 pm Annenberg Auditorium 
Snite Museum of Art Film Screening of Kathryn Bigelow's Strange Days 
7:00 snacks and beverages in Snite atrium 
7:30 Intro to film by Don Crafton (Chair, FTT) 7:40-10 Film: Strange Days 
10-11: Roundtable discussion and drinks in LOFT (3L4 O'Shaughnessy) Jessica Chalmers (FTT), Richard Pierce (HIS) and Matthias Scheutz (CSE) 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Cam1cn Nanni Student Returnees 
Wednesday September 15, 1999 
South Dining Hall Hospitality Room 

4:45 PM 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY FOR SPRING 2000. 


II







orld. 10n 
·1Lu:sday, September 14, 1999 COMPILED FHOM TIIE OBSERVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Killer bee stings cause man's death 
I.0NC BFJ\(:J L Calif. 

An 8:l-yPar-old lwck1\cp1:r aLl.nck11d t.wo \\'l'eks ago hy a swnrrn of' /\fricaniznd "kill11r" IH•!'s has dine!. Virgil Fostnr was lmliPvPd to b1• lht> lirst. pt>rson in C:alifim1ia killod in an attack of' "kill1•r" !mi's. and the six1 h nationwide. But a dPl'ision Oil thP caus<'. of' his dnath awaits an autopsy by tlw l.os i\nj.{l'lfls Coullly coronur. Fos1Pr diPd Saturday al a hospilal. !In was mowing his lawn Aug. :{ I when he was stung al kasl :iO tinws by lhn highly aggrm;sive bens. which had lakPn ovPr hivns on his prorwrty. "Mu!Lipln stings rPprnsnnt a co11dilio11 ol' an i111T1\asing numlmr of' dosns of hnn toxins,"city lwalU1 01'fi1'.1\r Darryl SPxton said. "Af'ricanizncl ho11tiybP1\S and Eu;·opPan horwylw11s havn tlm sanw dosage of toxins. Tlw l1•thahwss comns in tlw imT!\asing nurnbnr of stings." 
Britain orders spy inquiry 
LONDON 

A Cahirwt minister orclt!rncl an inquiry Monday into why Britain failed to prosecute spies rnvnalcd in KGB files smuggled lo the West -including a former secrntary. now a grnat-grandmotlmr. who pass11d atomic sncrnts lo the Kremlin. I lomc Secretary Jack Straw dis­dosf'ci lhat Im hianwd of tlw allegations against lfH' 87-yt!ar-old M0.lila Norwood in December,· hut had acc1•pt1id a ruling that it was too late to rhargP lwr. "Them is no reason to doubt ... that ltw KCB n•gardml Mrs. Norwood as an impor­tant spy," Straw said in a statement issued after lw nwt with bossns of thP Ml5 intdligence ser­
vic:c. But tlw damage she did was limited, he said, lwcaus11 "tlw Vf!tting system prev,mted her from having authorized access to government sucrnls after 1949." 
Ex-cop gets prison for robbery 
LOS ANGELES 

A l'ornwr police ollicer who allegedly robbed a bank ol' $722,000 while he was on the force was s0.ntenced Monday to 14 years and three months in foderal prison. David Anthony Mack, 38, robbml a Bank of America branch in 1997 with the help or an assistant manager with whom he had carried on a seven-year affair, prosPcutors said. Mack was convicted in March. His alleged accomplice. Errolyn Homero, 27. has phmdml guilty to conspiracy and could be sentncnd lo up to live years. U.S. District Judge Hobmt M. Takasugi ordered Mack to rnpay the stolen money, most of which has not been n•covnrnd. Mack's attorney. Donald He, said be would appeal the conviction. Mack was a track star al the University of Oregon and was among the world's top 800-mett1r runners in the early 1980s. 


Dow 

AMEX: 
804.50
]ONES 
-1.45 

Nasdaq:

11030.33 

2844.77 -42.29 NYSE: 620.81 
+2.09 


S&PSOO: 1344.13 

Cofuposite
+7.53 

Volume: 
+1.90 808.400,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

i l.t!Ul'ti~l llOliot:;U. ·:,nl.!i.tHiit;. U1dilti r1111:r 
GU)IIAl. H:1.[:"!l'S (iTS(i •ZUJ1 -~.4J7!1 lJ.l!I UfAI.Tlt~ll!TII roR HRI' ~u0, ..O.tt62!1 
,.1, 

<tM'O !'t\'STt:M~ ('SC:-0 •,OIi, ·,0600 '10.6'9 AMUI.IC4 ON'l.lNl-'. 40L -6.-1.J. 
.,.,,u cto,ll 

INTFt.f"ORP INTC • J,4J -l.f1"J~O B-U" COMPAQ C-CJMrutrk CPQ ·l.!iO ..,11, 2.f.iU JO:)MCOIU' COMS .+~.9N +f.4a.J6U llt8K OKA.f"l,E ('.ORI' OR('L •l,J,. -.6l~O ..~.,~ Ofl,I. COMPUTt:A OF.LI -.l39 -1,68:Z!' .f7,81 ,l/lf('MOOrT ("OAr Msn -I.II -1,0GIJ ~J.Y.B 
TURKEY 



Seven killed in Turkey quake 
Associated Press 
GOLCUK 
T1nriried rnsidonls jumped from windows Monduy as a strong allcr­shm:k jolted thn sanrn arna of western Turkey wlwrt> 15,000 people JiP<l in an narthquake last month. At lnast seven pnoplo wnrn killr.d anJ morn than 420 wnrn injured. 
In the hard-hit coastal town of Golcuk. one build­ing dam11ged in the Aug. 17 temblor sli<l into the sea. apparently trupping four peop]P who had gone• inside to salvage lheir belongings. 
Ht)scuo workers from the civil defense, the military and a civilian rescue group were on a 6-foot corner section of the building jut­ting from the water, pulling at the rubble. Navy divers searched the water. 
"Our only chance is that they are out of the water," said rescue worknr Emre Ayan. 
Rescue workers were also pulling debris from at least one other site in Golcuk where survivors might be trapped. 
The quake had a prelim­inary magnitude of 5.8 and was centered in lzmit, just northeast of Golcuk and some 50 miles south­

A young woman Is comforted after a powerful aftershock hit lzmlt Monday. At
east of Istanbul. the city's 


least six people were killed and 312 were during the most powerful aftershock to
Kandilli Observatory 


hit Turkey since the massive earthquake of Aug. 17.
reported. "It was very disorient­began to shake. building they were in col­soggy tents. Piles or twist­

ing," said John 

"The stairs were full of lapsed, he said. ed wreckage mark sites
Augsburger, a structural 

people trying to get out, so A woman in the town of that were once apartment
engineer from 

I just jumped," he said, sit­Adapazari died of a heart blocks.
llarrisonburg, Va., who 

ting in a wheelchair in a attack, state-owned TRT Many residents appearedwas in Colcuk at the time field hospital, his foot cov­television reported. in shock on Monday and
of the aftershock. "We 

ered in bandages. More than 420 people were unable to speak.
were right next to a build­

Throughout the town, were being treated from Some stared forward with
ing. It moved so much, it people rushed to hospitals, injuries or severe psycho­blank eyes. Otherslooked like rubber." 

desperate for news about logical trauma, state­clenched their teeth.
Most of the injured suf­

their loved ones. owned TRT television "Life goes on despite
fernd broken bones jump­Three people were killed reported. everything," said Handan

ing from buildings in 

in nearby Kocaeli when a The area hit by the Akcay, who has been living
hopes of reaching safety building fell on their car, quake has not recovered in a tent city since the 

on the street. 

Istanbul Deputy Governor from the devastating Aug. August earthquakeIsa Ersozer was in a sec­
Ali Cafer Akyuz said. 17 quake. Thousands of destroyed her home. "Butond-floor barbershop in 
Another three were killed residents are living in unfortunately, we don't get
lzmit when the building 

in that town when the makeshift huts or in cold, use to this." 


Panel urges embryo donation policy 
because researchers hope the cells wise would be thrown away ­
A.•socia1rd Pres• 

one day could regenerate body parts should be allowed to be donated to 
WASHINGTON or create new therapies for taxpayer-funded scientists. 
Women with embryos left over Alzheimer's and other devastating Privately funded researchers last from infertility treatments should be diseases. year culled stem cells from donated allowed to donate them to taxpayer­But their use has raised troubling embryos, and multiplied the cells in funded medical research -mean­ethical questions, because culling a laboratory. Despite the federal ing a federal law that prohibits such stem cells destroys the embryo. law, the NIii contends it would be research should be changed, Federal law prohibits taxpayer­legal for its researchers to use those President Clinton's top ethics advis­funded human embryo research, lab-grown supplies because govern­ers said Monday. and about 75 members of Congress ment scientists never touched tho 
The National Bioethics Advisory have opposed a move to get around original embryos. Commission·s report comes ,wen that prohibition to enable the But the ethics panel said that rely­though the White House previously National Institutes of Health to ing on those supplies "could severe­indicated it disagrees with that rec­study the cells' medical potential. ly limit scientific and clinical ommendation. So Clinton ordered his ethics progress" because more embryos 
At issue are embryonic stem cells . advisers to study how the nation may be needed. The federal ban unique "master cells" that in early should proceed. should be changed because it "con­embryos generate all the other tis­Citing the cells' great promise, the flicts with several of the ethical sues of the body. Stem cells are panel said embryos left over from goals of medicine ... especially heal­causing huge scientific excitement, infertility treatment -which other-ing." 
page6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 14, 1999 
CHINA 
Negotiators edge closer to WTO membership agreement 
each other they wanted to negotiations China had came close to agreeing on
"There is a need for the U.S. side 

Associated Press conclude an agreement on broken off in anger after Beijing's WTO membership in 
to do more concrete deeds so as to

China's WTO entry, said U.S. forces bombed the April. But Clinton, fearful AUCKLAND Gene Sperling, chairman cure the scars that the bombing Chinese Embassy in Congress and U.S. business China's bid to join the World of Clinton's National Yugoslavia during the would not support the deal,
incident has left on the heart of 

Trade Organization picked up Economics Council. Kosovo war. rejected Premier Zhu Rongji's momentum Monday when U.S. Trade the Chineese people. " "There remains a lot of offer to open many previously President Clinton and Chinese Representative Charlene work to do," Sperling said, closed sectors of the Chinese President Barshefsky and Chinese but added that Harshefsky economy.
Tang Jiaxuan 

Jiang Zemin Foreign Trade Minister Shi felt China demonstrated While acknowledging that
Chinese Foreign Minister

prodded Guangsheng held two ses­"a positive and construc­relations have improved since their nego­sions of talks Monday and tive tone" in the talks. the bombing, Chinese Foreign tiators to were trying Lo schedule the To get into WTO, China Minister Tang Jiaxuan said
its economy, even ·though

reach a deal next round of negotiations, needs to reach market-opening Washington still needs to do
reforms in the near term would

Sperling said. accords with the United States, morn.
soon. 
likely mean even higher rates of

In infor­The quickening pace of negoti­the European Union and other "There is a need for the U.S.
layoffs and factory closures

mal conver­ations was one of the few tangi­major trading partners. China is side to do more concrete deeds
because of intensified interna­

sations at a ble signs of progress in China's hoping to ,vrap up the process by so as to cure the scars that the
tional competition. 

summit of fitful 13-year effort to join world year's end before entry becomes bombing incident has left on the
Both sides have refused to pro­

Pacific Rim trade's rule-making body. harder during the next round of heart of the Chinese people,"
vide details on the talks since

leaders in Auckland, New China wants to enter the world global trade talks. Tang told reporters at a news
Clinton and Jiang on Saturday

Zealand, Clinton and Jiang told trade rules-making body to spur China and the United States conference.
ordered trade officials to reopen 







Investigators overlooked tear gas use at Waco 
Associated Pres• 
WASHINGTON 

The congressional Republican leading an inquiry into the 1993 Waco siege overlooked evidence the Justice Department sent his committee four years ago show­ing federal agents used poten­tially incendiary tear gas near the fiery end of the Branch Davidian standoff, a House Democrat said Monday. 
Releasing documents that describe the FBl's use of mili­tary tear gas rounds on the standoff's final day -April 19, 1993 -Rep. Henry Waxman asked why the House Government Reform Committee's chairman, Rep. Dan Burton. Ind., is accusing the Justice Department of a cover-up when his own investi­gators missed the same evi­dence that has suddenly revived the Waco debate. 
"Contrary lo the allegations of cover-up, substantial evidence of the use of military tear gas rounds was, in fact, provided to Congress in 1995," said Waxman, Calif., the committee's top Democrat. 
Separately, the Texas Rangers issued a report Monday indicat­ing a house near the Davidians' compound occupied by federal agents before and during the siege contained a dozen spent rifle cartridges preferred by sharpshooters -as well as by the FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. The PB! has long denied firing a single shot during the standoff. ATF was involved in a deadly shootout with the Davidians on Feb. 28, 1993. that launched the 51-day confrontation. 
The records Waxman cited, discovered among more than 40 boxes of material compiled dur­ing the House's 1995 hearings, include an FBI pilot's 1993 statement recalling a radio transmission in which agents had a conversation "relative to the utilization of some sort of military round ... on a concrete bunker." And post-raid inter­view summaries include an unnamed FBI agent's explana­tion that smoke captured on film "came from (an) attempt to penetrate bunker with one mil­itary and two (non-incendiary) rounds." 
In a letter to the special counsel investigating the con­troversy, Waxman wrote: "There is no indication that Chairman Burton or his staff thought to review these docu­ments before accusing the attorney general of a cover­up." 
Burton said the Justice Department buried the com­mittee in an avalanche of docu­ments shortly before the 1995 hearings began, and panel investigators depended on a Justice summary to guide them. 
"The Justice Department dumped 100,000 documents on 
Introducing ... 
~s 

--------------3 20 
the committee thr.ee days before the hearings, knowing that they (committee aides) couldn't pos­sibly go through them," Burton said in an interview, Although Burton was on the Government Reform Committee in 1995, he was not on the subcommittee that led the investigation. 
Last week, the Justice Department was forced to acknowledge that it failed in 1995 to give Congress the key page from a 1993 FBI lab report mentioning the use of military tear gas. The final page of that 49-page report, with the key tear gas mention, was missing, Burton noted. 
"I don't think that's a coinci­dence," he said. Until the FBI's recent admis­

sion that a "very limited num­ber" of pyrotechnic rounds were fired, Justice and FBI officials had publicly denied the use of potentially incendiary tear gas. That about-face sparked con­gressional outrage and led Attorney General Janet Reno to appoint an outside investi­gator, former Sen. John Danforth. 
Almost six out of 10 Americans believe the FBI has been intentionally trying to cover up its actions at Waco, an ABC News poll released Monday indi­cated. Only one out of five polled said they thought Reno should resign, based on what they now know. The poll of 1,008 adults was taken Sept. 8-12 and has an error margin of plus or minus 3 percentage points. 
Waxman's presentation came as the Texas Hangers released a report that cited the discovery of .308-caliber and .223-caliber shell casings in a house the fed­eral agents used. 
Both the FBI and ATF use ammunition matching those cas­ings, said ATF spokesman Jeff Roehm and FBI spokesman Tron Brekke. 
Whether the casings in the Rangers' report are from the ATF agents' rounds, "We do not know," Roehm said. The ATF's attempt to serve weapons war­rants on the well-armed Davidians -who had been tipped off about the raid ­turned into a gun battle that launched the siege. 

Can you make this team? 



ANSWER ~ 

THECALL W 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Tuesday, September I 4, I 999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Collision kills Government issues Y2K warnings 
train conductor 

Associated Prc55 
WICKES, Ark. 

Tlrn conductor of a loaded coal train was killed Monday when tho southbnund train ran into anotlrnr in soulll­wcstcrn Arkansas, causing a derailment.. 
The body of Honni11 Taylor. 26, was l'ound beneath piles or coal f'ive hours aflnr the 4::i0 a.m. accident. A s1wkesman for the Kansas City Hailway said the man jumped out of the locomotive before it crashed but that d()railed cars landed on top of him. 
The Lrain's engineer suf­fored a broken arm and was treated and released. 
lnvcsligators said a coal train pulled by four engines slammed into the rear of a stoppi\d coal train about a mile north of Wickes. The parked train was heading for Welsh. Texas. while the other was heading to a plant near Lake Charles, La. 


Ca111pus View Apartn1ents 
• 
RenHult,Ied Luxury Suit~s 

• 
Ftn·nished, Convenfo·nl & Afforduhle 

• 
St.tulent. Leose Te1'nts 

• 
Wttlk to ND & Shops 


Call for Details! 272-1441 www. rent.11 ct/dircct/campusview 

Hit me baby one more time. 
http://observer.nd.edu 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The State Department is preparing country-by-country advisories to warn Americans living or traveling overseas about possible failures rnlated to the Year 2000 technology problem. 
The warnings. to be released Tuesday, will include details about 194 nations where visiting Americans could be affected bv power outages, water shortages and other potentially serious problems causc·ct by the Y2K CC>mputer glitch. 
The reports, which were com­piled by (,mbassies worldwide, promised to be the best road map yet for identifying global trouble spots. Experts have long complained about the difficulties C()llecting adequate information from foreign governments about possible computer failures. 
"Most of the information we're getting is self-reportcd,"said Hobert Bennett, chairman of the Senate's Year 2000 Committee. "If il turns ouL these self-reported statements arc acrnrate. the folks won't feel much in the way ol'Y2K." 
The warnings also were expected to suggest how and where failures overseas may a!foct U.S. interests in the inter­connected global economy, where problems with the. export of Venezuelan crude. for exam­ple, might affect the price of gasoline for motorists here. 
"Disruptions in this infrastruc­ture and the relationships among suppliers and customers will neg­atively affect individuals, firms, 

industries, governments and United States among key indus­national and regional economies tries. around the world," the agency's "China is a worry, Japan is a inspector general, Jacquelyn worry, Russia is a worry, Italy is a Williams-Bridgers, told a Senate worry.... Rut many of these coun­committee weeks ago. tries now are moving more 
The State Department previ­aggressively and catching up." ously has criticized Y2K fllTorts in said Sen. Christopher Dodd, Russia and former Eastern bloc Conn., vice chairman of the 
countries. cii- Snnate Year  
ing a "relative­ 2  0  0  0  
1y high proba­bility of ... fail­ures." It also  "Our first priority is to provide information to  Committ1~n. T h e Cartner  
has predicted  U.S. citizens to try to  Group  Inc.,  
problems with  meet their needs. "  an  analyst  
power grids in  firm  in  
India  and  Stamford.  
Poland,  rail­ Phil Reeker  Conn.,  last  
roads in China  State Department spokesman  month identi­ 

and telephones and water sup­plirs in Italy. 

The task of publicly identifying countries where systems might fail was clearly a sensitive onn for the agency, which callod the warnings "r,arefully compiled ... in an objective, non-comparative and non-alarmist way." 
The Bureau of Consular Affairs said comments about Y2K e!l'orb will be added to each nation's updated consular information sheet -available on the State Department's Internet site -and said details will bn updated peri­odically as countries improve. 
"Our first priority is to provide information to U.S. citizens to try to meet their needs," State Department spokesman Phil Reeker said. · 
Experts say the world's worst Year 2000 failures will occur overseas. They are predicting with increasing confidence there will be no national failures in the fied Russia as 
tlrn highest risk for Y2K failures. followPd bv India and a cluster of' countries that included Venezuela, Norway. Japan. Taiwan and Finland. 
"Except for what might bn a small handful of countries, things like air-traffic nmtrol, airlines and airports are doing pretty well." said Lou Marcoccio. a research director at Gartn<>r. '"I don't think we're going to Pncl up with a long list of' countries that arn extremely dang<>rous." 
Earlier this summer, Cargill Inc., a worldwide grain shipper, told South Africa it plans to avoid trading in the country lrntween mid-December and mid-January because of inadequate Y2K preparations. 
"I wouldn't be running around Africa a lot, myself," said William Garrison, director or international communications studios at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. 










LONDONPROG 
. 

APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2000 AND SPRING 2001 
Tuesday, September 14, 1999 101 DeBartolo 6:30 pm 

ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME! 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 14, 1999 
Crude oil surges to highest since 1997 
Associated Press 
Crude oil futures surged Monday to their highest level since early 1997, top­ping $24 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange amid signs once­fJush U.S. inventories are still in free fall. 
In other markets. orange juice futures rose as Hurricane Floyd bore down on the southeastern U.S. coastline, and platinum futures advanced sharply. 
Crude prices have doubled this year after plummeting to a 12­year low in 
Prospects for changes any ­time soon were further diminished by comments of the oil minister of the United Arab Emirates, who said Sunday that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries won't review its oil production cuts before they run out next March. 
OPEC's steadfast adher­ence to the cutbacks policy has helped drain oil supplies worldwide and push up prices. 
Crude for October delivery rose 66 cents to $24.21 a barrel; October heating oil rose .17 cent to 

December. "It's not a crucial level, 6 2 . 2 0 A ft e r but it does indicate that cents a 
increasing gallon;
our excess inventory has 

throughout October last week, really been worked off." unleaded crude saw gasoline a sixth rose .36
Tim Evans

straight cent to 
energy analyst

price rise Monday as investors anticipated that the upcom­ing American Petroleum 
Institute report would show yet another decline in U.S. inventories. 
Adding to that expectation were figures showing an 8 percent decline in monthly activity at the Louisiana off­shore oil port -confirma­tion that less oil is flowing into the United States. 
The last AP! report put 
U.S. stocks at 311 million barrels. Inventories have averaged 3-million-barrel drops in recent weeks. lf that pace holds steady. it would mean the total could drop below 300 million level by early October. 
"When that figure starts with a 2, we can consider the market tight," said Tim Evans, energy analyst for the Pegasus Econometric Group in New York. 
"It's not a crucial level, but it does indicate that our excess inventory has really been worked off," he said. "We had a glut a year ago. Well, the glut is gone." 
6 9 . 6 8 
cents a 
gallon. 
October natural gas fell 2 cents to $2.781 per 1,000 cubic feet as it appeared Floyd would not enter the Gulf of Mexico. 
In London, North Sea Brent Blend crude oil for delivery in October rose 4 cents to $23.48 a gallon on the International Petroleum Exchange. 
Orange juice futures set· tled about 2 percent higher after leaping up nearly three times that amount early in the trading session on fore­casts that had the hurricane coming dangerously close to crop regions. 
Later in the day, the price fell back as meteorologists predicted the storm was more likely to come ashore in the Carolinas. 
November frozen concen­trated orange juice futures rose 1.55 cents to 97 cents a pound. 
Platinum futures hit a six­month high before declining slightly. Investors cited the yen·~ strong jump against the dollar. 


Tru1t1an Scholarship Informational Meeting 
Wednesday, September 15 
3:00 p.m. 114 O'Shaughnessy 



Starr wins in federal appeals court 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
A federal appeals court on Monday overturned a previously secret. ruling that Kenneth Starr's office be prosecuted by the Justice 
Department for alleged grand jury leaks to the news media. 
The deci­sion. which President Clinton's 

lawyer said Starr 
he will seek to appeal, undercut one of the most fre­quent complaints by the presi­
dent's defenders against Starr ­that he leaks grandjury informa­tion to the press. 
In a 3-0 vote, the appeals court reversed U.S. District Judge Norma llolluway Johnson, who directed that the Justice Department act as prosecutor for civil and possibly criminal contempt proceedings she ordered against Starr's office as well as its former spokesman, Charles Bakaly, for leaking a story to The New York Times. 
The Times' story on Jan. 31. amid the Senate impeachment trial, stated that Starr had decidedhe had the authority to seek an indictment against the president while Clinton was still in office. 
"We conclude that the disclo­sures made in The New York Times article do not constitute a prima facie violation" of the grand jury secrecy rule, said the 

court. 
"Information actually present­ed to the grand jury is core" grand jury secrecy "material that is afforded the broadest protection from disclosure," said the three judges. 

But "prosecutors' statements about their investigation, howev­er, implicate the secrecy rule only when they directly reveal grand jury matters;" the court added. 
The ruling may prove helpful to Starr regarding other allega­tions of grand jury leaks leveled by Clinton lawyer David Kendall in the Monica Lewinsky investi­gation. Johnson ruled last year that there were 24 instances of possible grand jury leaks by Starr's office. Some of those dealt with negotiations with Lcwinskv's lawyers and were not matt"ers before the grand­jury. 
Kendall said he will ask the entire Court of Appeals to review the case. 
"We believe that the decision of the panel is inconsistent with the prece­dents of Starr praised the appeals court for "noting the important role of prosecutors providing public information regarding criminal investigations." 
Bakaly left the office when Starr asked the Justice Departmirnt to investigate him about theleak to the Times. 
Unknown until Mondav was that Starr had waged a behind­the-scenes court battle since lastsumrner to block Johnson from launching contempt pro­ceedings against Starr's own ollice. 
Johnson, who as chief judge oversaw the grand jury that investigated the Lewinsky scan­dal, issued an order on July 14 directing the Justice Department to serve as prosecutor ofcon ­tempt charges against Starr's office as well as Bakaly. 
The Justice Department sided with Starr in immediately asking Johnson to withdraw herreferral for prosecuting Starr's oflice. 
the Court 0 f 

Thinking of Joining the Church??
Appeals," s a i d 
Kendall. 

Try RCIA 
Starr's 
at 
office said 

Sacred Heart Parish 
t h a t 
at
"today's decision 

Notre Dame 
rejects defense 

We are: 
tactics of 

1) an inter--generational group
seeking to distract 

(you always liked talking with Grandma] 
an investi­

2) a WednC!lday evening meeting 
gation 

(you prefer Chicago on weekends) 
through 

3) the Dwh which baptized Chief Pokagon
accusa­

(you like a truly long tradition!] 
tions of 

4)' a complement lo Campu3 Mioi3t.ry'3 :UCL\
illegal leaks." 

[you like building bridges] 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 


For information, call 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
ALL CONVERSATIONS ARE PRIVATE ANO CONFIDENTIAL. 
Tuesday, September 14, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Florida residents evacuate, fleeing Floyd's destruction 

Auocia1cJ Pr~ss 
MIAMI 

Hundreds of' thousands of peo­ple were ordered to 
Hurricane 
evacuate the Floyd rlorida coast Monday and
The most 
NASA all but dangerous hurri-abandon ncl C a p e
cane since 
Canaveral as 1992's Andrew. 11 u r r i c a n 1\ 
. 155 mph wind Floyd -01111 of llrn most 
. 425 miles 
p o w !\ r f' u I east of Miami storms ever to threaten the
. Category 5 
United States 

strength -charged toward Florida with 
polPntially catastrophic I!'l5 mph winds. Floyd was much larger than 





Ombudsperson 
The University of Notre Dame is pleased to announce that Professor Kevin Misiewicz will serve as University Ombudsperson for Discriminatory Harassment. 
If you are a victim of discriminatory harassment and do not know where to 
turn, call the University Ombudsperson for 
Discriminatory Harassment at 631-3909. 

The University of Notre Dame believes in the intrinsic value of all human beings. It is, moreover, committed to the full peaceable participation of all its members in the educational endeavor it fosters. Accordingly, the University prohibits discriminatory harassment by all faculty, administrators, staff and students. 
In this context, harassment is any physical conduct intentionally inflicting injury on the person or property of another, or any intentional threat of such conduct, or any hostile, intentional and persistent badgering addressed directly at another or small groups of others, that is intended to intimidate its victim(s) from any University, or any verbal attack, intended to provoke the victim to immediate physical retaliation. Harassment in general is prohibited in the University's regulations. 
Conduct as described above constitutes discriminatory harassment, if, in addition, it is accompanied by intentionally demean­ing expressions concerning the race, gender, religion, sexual orientation, national origin or disability of the victim(s). 
For a fuller description of discriminatory harassment and reporting procedures see du Lac, the Faculty Handbook or Staff Handbook. 
Hurricane Andrew, which Floyd's hurricane-force winds -about 272,000 people were smashed into south Florida in at least 7 4 mph -extended for affected. Schools were closed 1992, musing $25 billion in 125 miles. Andrew's hurricane­Tuesday in 13 counties in damage, killing 26 people and force winds extended about 25 Florida and one in Georgia. leaving 160,000 homeless. or 30 miles. At Kennedy Space Center, 
Forecasters said Floyd would With a hurricane warning in which is just 9 feet above sea brush past the Bahamas effect Monday from Florida City, level, almost all of the 12,500 overnight and could hit land in south of workers were the next couple of days botwnen Miami, to leaving. A 
central Florida and South Brunswick, "Hurricane Floyd is hu_qe, skeleton crew 
Carolina. They predicted it was Ga., residents remained
he's powerful, he's fast, 
capable of causing Anormous along 400 behind, but damage. miles of and he's mean." they, too, will "It's scary. It's very scary," /\tlantic coast-evacuate if Cov..h,h Bush said. "Andrew hit 1inc packed the wind is as
Richard Moore
Miami in the middle of the night stores to stock fierce as pre­
North Carolina public safety
and it was haunting. This is as up on canned dicted. That strong and ... three limes big­food, bottled secretary would be the ger." water. ply­first complete 
Bush doclared a state of emer­wood and alu-evacuation of gency Monday, giving him the minum shutters. Navy ships left the space center ever. authority to activate the National port to ride out the storm at sea. Three of NASA's space shuttles Guard and allowing the state to and aircraft were sent inland. were in a hangar that was order evacuations and suspend Coastal and mobile home resi­designed to withstand winds of tolls on th<l highways. dents in four Florida counties only up to 105 mph. A fourth 
The storm could be dangerous were ordered to evacuate, was in a building designed to even if it does not come ashore, including Miami-Dade, where stand winds of up to 125 mph. 


Four multimillion-dollar rockets were exposed on launch pads and could not be moved. 
"We're concerned, and we're starting to button things up," said NASA spokesman George Diller. "We're putting sandbags in place, and we're starting to secure the flight hardware." 
Universal Studios and other tourist attractions in central Florida that were built in the last 30 years and have never been through a major hurricano prn­pared by lowering water levels in manmade lagoons and remov­ing trash cans and anything nls!l that could become projectiles. 
The storm has consistently moved faster than predicted, said Jerry Jarrell, director of the National Hurricane Center. Forecasters had expected it to turn northward, possibly reduc­ing the danger to Florida. But by Monday afternoon, them was no sign that the hurricane was 
being influenced by weather 
systems that forecast1irs hopod 
would steer it away. 
"It's controlling its own des­
tiny," Jarrell said. "That's a bad 
sign." 
;\t 5 p.rn. EDT, Floyd was 
centered near 24.2 north lati­
tude, 73.7 west longitude, about 
425 miles oast-soutlrnast of' 
Miami. The hurricano was mov­
ing w11st near 16 mph with top 
winds near 155 mph -just 
bnlow Catngory 5 str(mgth. tlw 
highest rating for hurricarrns. 
Only two Category 5 hurri­
canes have hit the United States 
since rncords havP been kept: 
the 1935 Labor Day storm that 
slammed the Florida Keys, 
killing 423 people, and 
Hurricane Camille. which 
roared ashore in Mississippi in 
1969, killing 256. /\ndrnw was 
a Category 4. 
Forecasters stuck by tlrnir 
prediction that Floyd would 
gradually turn west-northwest 
sometime Monday night, then 
northwest on TLwsday, possibly 
sparing Miami and other parts 
of south Florida. 
Forecasters in North Carolina 
said the storm could move 
through them Wndrrnsday 
night. Coastal residents, still 
recovering from llurricane 
Dennis last weok, wern rnmind­
ed of Hurricane llugo, which hit 
South Carolina 10 years ago 
this month and was one of' tho 
state's worst disasters. 
"Hurricane Floyd is huge, 
he's powerful, he's fast. and 
he's mean," said Hichard 
Moore, North Carolina's public 
safety secretary. "This is one of' 
those once-in-a-decadn 
storms." 
PART-TIME SALES ASSOCIATE 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Follett Higher Education Group, the leader in higher education 
services, is currently seeking a Part-time Sales Associate for our Notre Dame Bookstore. 
We are looking for an experi­enced customer service orient­ed Sales Associate/Cashier to work days, nights, and week­ends. We offer $6.50 per hour. Only enthusiastic, friendly peo­ple need apply. 
To find out more about salary and benefits, please apply in person to: The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, University of Notre Dame, Bookstore Building, in Notre Dame. Visit us on the web: www.fhcg.follett.com.EOE 





VIEWPOINT 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
Tbr l11thprndn1t, l>nily N,,.,,,,,.per Servi11g Notre D"me ,md S.sinl Mrrry'1 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Perelle  

.NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISINt.................................... 63 J-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.. ...................................... 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS......... ........................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.. ........................................ 631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................ 631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................. 631-8839 

THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ob1erver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-co-the 
weekly smdent reviews
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advenisc for policies 
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
articles published alter 
to meet rhe editors and 
staff
August 1999 


POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print an<l online by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is nor governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub• lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edirnr and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression of all opinions rhrough lerrers is encouraged. 
Quesriom regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 
O
THE 

BSERVER Tuesday, September 14, 1999 

A presidential toast to Clinton 
FOR THE PRESIDENT CLINTON DRINKING GAME YOU WILL NEED: 
-Footage of President Clinton going about his daily business of lying before God and man. 
-At least 45 min­utes of post-analysis 

Mary Beth Ellis 
involving Peter Jennings if the 
footage involves a Changes in full-blown 
latitudes,
Presidential 
changes in 
address. 
attitudes
-Any beverage. Try Powerade Mountain Blast. It's a most interesting shade of blue. 
HOW TO PLAY: Drink the specified amount for each phrase or visual cue. If, by the end of the appearance, Clinton is still the President, everybody loses. May be played alone or with other dejected taxpayers. 
DRINKING CONDITIONS, PART ONE: Bill About Town 
If the President ... 
-Bites his lower lip: Take one sip 
--Gives the thumbs-up: One sip (pound the rest of your drink if they're done together) -ls surrounded by array of token minorities: Two sips 
-Smirks: One sip 
-Refers to Al Gore as "my appren­tice": Three sips -Has Hillary present: One sip -Has Chelsea present: Two sips 
· -Has Buddy, the dog, present: Pound your drink (The more family members present, the more trouble he's in) 
-ls wearing a yarmulke: Three sips 
-Congratulates Brandy Chastain on "having an integral role in the Women's World Cup win, and also a bodacious set ofta-tas": Two sips 
-Assumes frowny expression in order to denote seriousness of topic at hand: One sip 
-Vehemently denies wrongdoing: No drink, this is hardly out of the ordinary -Manages to look as if he cares ­
really cares -about the plight of East Timorcse refugees: Two sips -Has actually heard of East Timor before they had refugees: Pound -Appoints Shania Twain as new ambassador to Malta: One sip 
-Is wearing that ridiculous tie with the pictures of children's faces all over it: One sip (Two if it is later discovered that 
Monica Lewinsky gave it to him) -Seems to liave developed some sort of foreign policy: Pound -Begins charging the press $850 per question: Two sips -Uses the expression "our children": One sip 
-Uses the expression "our children" in reference to the percentage of the population who, genetically, really are his children: Pound 
-Resigns: Keg stand 
-Issues an apology to ... one or more people: One sip per person (two sips if the person is the plaintiff in a civil law suit); the entire nation: Two sips; or a foreign nation: Three sips 
-Attempts to define oral sex: Two sips -ls receiving oral sex: Two sips, renounce citizenship -Announces a bombing raid on an apparently made-up nation: One sip 
-Fires someone at random: Two sips 
-Is standing around with a bunch of other white guys in suits: One sip -Quotes Martin Luther King: Two sips -Quotes Billy Jean King: Three sips -Quotes Billy Ray Cyrus: Pound -Looks puffy: One sip -Accepts responsibility for his actions: 
Cease play immediately. You are halluci­nating. PART TWO (WACO LIGHTNING ROUND): A PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS 
-The address has been corporately sponsored in exchange for a donation to his Legal Defense Fund, as in "The Poulan Weedeater Presidential Address": Three sips 
-The corporate sponsor's logo is superimposed over the Presidential seal: Two sips 

-There's a Victoria's Secret catalogue on the Presidential desk: Two sips -Ifit's the "Biggest Sale Ever" issue: Three sips -The President is subpoenaed mid­sentence: One sip PART THHEE: DOWN TIME WITH PETER 
-If the media has deemed the address important enough to warrant analysis in order to make sure we know what to think about what the President just said: Two sips 
-ABC uses scary drum music to intro­duce Peter Jennings: One sip 
-The address is given a title, such as "The President's Bimbo Empire Strikes Back": One sip 
-The address is given a title AND its own graphic: Two sips, three sips if the graphic involves the President wearing his frowny expression 
-Peter says "about" in his pansy Canadian accent: One sip -Peter turns to Sam Donaldson for additional analysis: Two sips 
-Sam's hair looks as if it has been styled with a compound of crude oil and Velveeta cheese: One sip 
-Peter says, "Sam, do you really think anyone's buying this poop?": Pound 
-Peter goes to a pollster who announces that Clinton's approval rat­ings have gone up to 98 perc(mt sincfl the address, thereby illustrating that the President's poop has indeed been bought: No drink 
-Peter encourages us to stay tuned for "a special Nightline featuring Tyne Daley and George Stepanopolis": Two sips 
-You actually do: Kill self 
Mary Beth Ellis, a 1999 graduate of Saint Mary's College, is rurrently serv­ing time in the state penitentiary for excessive celebration after a touchdown. Iler column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT

-==~==============~~-,Er::==============~.-~===========~~~~~~~~-

~ EV£R'< DAY 15 A $LOW = fi..T LEAST I'LL
I'M WORKING ON A. ! BUT IN£VITA~LE { HAVE M't MOM'S
PP.OJ"ECT THAT IS i $LIO[ TOWARD I UNCONDITIONAL
TOO UNOE.R-FUNDEO 
i FAILURE I\ND ill HUMILIATION. E 
0 
u 
t: 
~ 
'ti 


.._.__....:.u,......,......,...,..:::.,_..,;;.c:: L...aa.;..;..;.""""'-!.,____...,Q....,.;~ .... L-...;.;~...;..i----"--....;;;.;.1..1,,.-­
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If you have knowledge, let others light their candles at it." 
Margaret Fuller 




VIEWPOINT 

Tuesday, September 14. 1999 
OBSERVER page 11 
Eradicating postmodernism 
I havo spm11 tlll' last two yPars of my lil'c bias• plwming tlin trinitarian god ol' postmodnrnism ­div,irsity. tohirunce, and acadinnic l'rnnclom. It is in that spirit that this is writtm1. 
It s,mms that the high pri1ists or dognrnlk ld't­
ism. judging by their rl'cm1t public'. pronouncnnwnts, am hac:k lo work. 
w,~ !11arn from one of thn al'ornnwntimwd p11rvnyors of" poslmo<krnism that "arcord­ing to many tlwologians, ( ;od is on tlw sid11 of" thn poor and oppressPd ... It makes snnsc 
Sean Vinck 
Not peace, but the sword 

that if c;od is lorn, then Cod would not stand f'or 
tlrn i11jusli1'.ns or our world" !Tim Ohs1,rvrn·.
,,nl'J'Jt 
IL used lo UI\ that ldtisls wPrn ho1H1st about tlwir idnology: tlwy <kspisnd rightcousrwss, and tlwir syslPm of thought was sPt in opposition lo trndilion. ordm and sanctity. Ycl. realizing tlmt s11d1 u bold. but hon11sl stat1111wnt of principle would hi' detrimental, making tlwm look 1)xtrPm11 in tho nyes of the average pmson. tlwy dm;idcd to chang,!. Now. ldlists are claiming the mantle or rightPousrwss wlmn nxpressing their ideology. Abandoning llrn morose rhetoric of' atheistic left­ism. ttwy now spnak as though their philosophy emanatPd from tlrn very mouth of (iod himself. 
For 11xampili. takn Lhis scriptural pri11cipl11 that t1ills us that ''God is lovn." Every Christian agrnns that this is ttw case. But tel thn libnrals analyze thal stat1mwnl. and iL-; spirit, lcllm-and intnnt becomes mangled beyond rncngnition. In their minds, since God is love, his love will allow man to do anything that he wants lo do. Subjectivity r11igns, and ohjm:tivity hecomcs a relic ol' a long­forgollPn age. Whill\ it is lrun lhal God is love, this love bears no relation lo a postmodernist's dPlinition or love. A postmodernist's id!ia of' lovP. involvr.s a rondDm and a prnnuµtial agrecm,mt; c;od's lov1! is Linwh!SS, intinilP and pcrfoct. 
But hit us not dismiss comphitdy this new sys­tl'maLic theology of" poslmodcrnism. Yns, it is silly. Yes. it is laughable. But it is also insidious. ll rnp­rnsnnts the attempt of tho modern day lef'l to forgn a curious and logically untcnabln linkage lmtwmm its id,ioloi.,,y. which is, at its )mart, a rnjcclion of' Jnsus Christ, and Catholic Theology. It is a way lo conl'usn. lo introduce disorder and to propound wickodnoss. 
Considnr thu sm:ond part of' the statement rnlat­ml above, " ... It makes snnse that if' God is love, limn Cod would not stand !'or the injustices of' the world." In order to analyze this statmncnl, let us ask the following qtwslion: In thn eyns of' the modl!rn day leftist, what is injuslico'! Well, abor­tion is not injustice, in their eyes, since they sup­port tlrn legaliwd murdnr of children as "freedom of choice." So scratch child killing f'rom the cacophony of injustices. Pornographic images that d(rn111an women and children don'l count. I suppose. Leftists support the production and dis­snmination ot' vile pornography, justirying it as "frrni<lom of expression." 
What might qualify as injusticn, lmwevnr. would b,i economic disparity among dilfornnt socinties. It is tnm tbat there is eeonomic hard­ship in the world, contributing to hunger, faminn and disease. The ldtist solution to this problem would be the introduction of socialism. Since limy bf!licvo that God is against injustice (a truo belieO. naturally, in their minds, lw would support. rmnn­dies to those injustices. Thernf'orc, since hunger is an injustice, and Cod is against injustice, and socialism is tho solution to hunger, then God is in favor of socialism. 
Aside from the logical and syntactical gymnm;. lies of' the prnvious statement, it is not hurd to see that some Catholics, even devout ones, might b<i captivated by such argumentation. It is prncisnly for this reason that I implore the Catholic com­m unity to P.ngagc this insidious theology of post­modcrnism. and to eradicate it. 
Sean Vinck is a junior P/,S major. His column appears evc:ry other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are thosfi of the author and not necessarily those ofThu Ob!wr11er. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



The Beginning of Notre Drune's 'Final Solution' 
Aftor closely reading Urn ar_gume11ts in favor of the sage will these people be sending if' they have ads'? "gay ads" ban I have changed my mind, and I am now And what about other groups. likn blacks. Now in favor of the restrictions. Ads should be in sync with there's a suspicious bunch. All of that mp music and 

Catholic teaching. This is a Catholic university after all. 
And not only should ads be censored, but we should be consistent, and carry this missionary zeal to the rest of cam­pus life. This university needs a real "spiritual cleansing." 
EVtirything should be really supPr-duper Catholic right'' BtJt why stop with gays and abortion'! I mcmn, thern arc so many things to clean up. 
What about lhc College Hcpublicans7 They support a party that is not "Catholic" on economic issues a.nd Lhe death penalty. No ads for them! 
The Collnge DPmocrats support tlrn party of baby killing ... I mean come on. So I say, NO ads for them either. 
And what about these pagans in the environmental group on campus. The last time I checked the Bible commands us to eat animals and domi­nate the earth! No ad space for these ungodly cultists. 
And the boxing club. Didn't Jesus say to turn the other cheek? What kind of Catholic mes-


crime ... seems prntty un-Catholic to me. I think thny should be thrown right off thn campus. And what's the deal with huving Jewish pro­fessors? I lello! Last lime I clrnckccl this was a C-A-T-11-0-L-l-C university. These .Jesus killers have 1w place here, I say, kick their asses out' And what about wonrnn. llow am we men supposed to concentrate on becoming Catholic philosopher kings if they're always walking around with their boobs. And thos,i vaginas am rather distracting as well. They're not creating a very Christian onviron­-ment (al least for tho 1)0 percent or us guys who aren't sodomites). It's time for a single snx univnrsity again! In summary, this is a Catholic uni­versity and it's time for some real action. Which leads mo to my sugges­tion for a new slogan for the University of Our Lady: Notre Dume, Implementing the Final Solution ... onP God-fearing step at a timo. 
Jay Johnson Graduate Student September I 0, 1999 

Let your 'boos' for Bob be heard 
I am writing as a concerned alumnus hoping to do what I feel is my duty for my alma mater -to do whatever I can to help people speak out about the state of our beloved football program. Unless we are vocal the administration will not get the message that some changes are desperately needed. To those who would call me some­one who places football above more important priorities, I need only say that the football program put this university on the map and has brought it a great deal of prosperity over the years. 
Since its inception. the football program has enabled many young men to receive a top­notch education that they, oth­erwise, may not have gotten, and has provided us with a ral­lying point and a focus for renewing our bonds every autumn. 
Make no mistake, the football program has fallen on very hard limes; things will only get worse unless a change is made, imme­diately. I had the opportunity as a student to spimd a few hours with Lou Holtz and came away lirmly convinced of the man's integrity and commitment to the lives of the student-athletes he coached. Not onlv was Lou an unselfish educator, but an out­standing football coach who always got the most out of his players. I can't help but feel that Holtz was pushed out the door by someone I perceive as extremely arrogant, our athletic director Mike Wadsworth. In looking for I·loltz's replacement, the lessons of the past were ignored and someone with no head coaching experience was handed the job. 

This man, Bob Davin, did not even have onough common sense to realize that hn could not fire an mnployee simply because that employee was too old -this wa:s clue number one that we were in for a long ordeal. "Coach" Davie lost me the moment he began insinuat­ing that the cupboard was bare and he needed to rebuild the program from tho ruins of an emotionally unstable old man. The truth is that Davie is not lit to be his predecessor's water­boy, much less the head coach or the most storied program in the land. I le has shown his incompetence and lack of lead­orship timo and again, culmi­nating in the debacle that was the loss to Purdue. Tim worst part about it is that Davie still doosn't realize tha,t he foiled to make BASIC decisions that are his job to make. 
We need to demand that Fr. Beauchamp remove Davie and Wadsworth immediately. I do not believe it is a bad thing to boo the coach while showing support for the players -it is the onlv vehicle we have to effect c·hange. I encourage each of you to snarch your hearts and if you agree with me, make your feelings known at the Michigan State pflp rally. Whon Coach Davie takes the podium, let him and his superiors know how you feel. Perhaps they will bn encouraged to do the right thing and correct this huge mistake. 
Kevin Keane 
Class of '88, Hammond. IN September 13, I 999 


O
THE page 12 BSERVER Tuesday, September 14, 1999 


ND campus band graduates to big-time 
Music Scene sits down with Umphreys McGee keyboardist, Joel Cummins 
By EMMETT MALLOY Assistanr Scene Editor 
Music Scene: ror starters, where did tlrn band come up with lhe name Cmphrcy's .Md;ee'? 
Joel Cummins: The name originated from a distant relative of Rrnndan's [guitarist and vocalist Brendan Bayliss] who shares a similar namesake. We've altered tile name slightly, but let's just say thal Humphries is an interesting individual. I heard that Brendan dis­covered another guy in the family with the name. I think they're both suing us. 
Music Scene: IllJw did the band I'orm, particularly in connection with Notre Dame? 
Cummins: Mike Mirro and I came l'rom tlw more blue-collar roots of Stomper Bob while Brendan and Byan [Stasik! played together in the finely­tuned quartet, Tashi Station. 
The four of us had played together infrequently over the years -our first public performance was at a concert in the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite. We did this long-winded impro­visatory composition that had people coming up on stage until there were live or six up there, then everyone sit­ting down after awhile leaving solo piano in the end. There were some people out in the audience who were pretty vocally energetic about the whole thing. although the Snite people were not as receptive to our loud and unabashed amplification. 
After that, we decided to leave our respective bands and put some serious time into the group musically. We added Andy Farag after the first six months: he's from Crown Point, Ind., along with Mike. 
Music Scene: What albums has Lmphrey's McGee released? 
Cummins: In 1998 we released "Greatest Hits Volume III" indepen­dently. Since then, Street Gold Records. out of Merrillville. Ind., has 
picked us up. They remastered and rernleased our lirst disc last November and have since put out "Songs For Older Women" for us. The new disc was recorded live at the Madison Oyster Bar over two nights about a year ago, and features nine new tracks. 
We'll get tapers showing up occa­sionally: we welcome them. too. We also haw• a number of MP:3s that can be downloaded from the Web site, www.umµhreys.com, most recently, an entire set of music from Dead Creek Campground this summer. 
Music Scene: Umphrey's McGt>e recently released its first live album. Tell us more about that. 
Cummins: We have the good fortune of having two excellent live and studio engineers -Andy Peck and Mike Brinker -working with us. The live disc was actually their idea. We set up two separate sound rigs -a house sound rig and a recording rig -for two nights and just taped everything 

we did. 
With the songs, we tried to stretch out a little from the first disc while exploring more complex song struc­tures. As far as describing the music, there's some evil funk. ethereal grooves, bluegrass and our first love ballad, which you have to do a little homework for to find it on the disc. 
Music Scene: Joel, you've told me what a huge Phish fan you are. Do you agree with the band that it's tremen­dously difficult to capture the energy of a live sho·w in the studio? 
Cummins: I think it's hard to consis­tently give a live show the kind of ener­gy that allows the music to explode. That's probably the most important thing I learned from my days of being really into Phish. 
I agree that it's impossible to com­pare the two situations. Playing with a crowd gives you this ping-pong effect with the energy. There's no doubt in my mind that the crowd can make a huge difference in how I play. There's certainly a more refined and subtle energy to be tapped into with the stu­dio. 


Music Scene: What's the support from the Notre Dame community been like for Umphrey's McGee? 
Cummins: Really good. We're fortu­nate to have people graduating and going all over the country. It's made our touring a lot easier. We always seem to have a pretty balanced mix of students and Benders, like me, around here. Otherwise, we've had people spinning live tapes for us all around the country. The world has been made a lot smaller with the aid of the Internet as well. Our Web site has seen some drastic improvements over the years and now has this sometimes funny message board that seems to keep people coming back. 
Music Scene: Any plans to release another album in the near future? 

Cummins: Our latest album is still relatively new. so I think we're going to try to work with that one for awhile. We're moving to Chicago in May and are focusing on writing new material while playing a lot here and there. We'll probably-wait until after the move to record another one. We have around 10 tunes that aren't on either of the discs yet, but I think we'll let them breathe a little bit this time. 
Music Scene: Where does the band see inself in a year? 
Cummins: After the move to Chicago, we plan on sticking around there while doing a few things around the Midwest and perhaps the East coast again. Musically, I hope we're each individu­ally more mature players and listeners. 
1 can't wait to experience the listen­ing opportunities Chicago has to offor. There are so many outstanding rooms with many of the world's finest musi­cians in Chicago, though, so I'm glad we're moving there. 

ALBUM REVIEW 


Older women and more will enjoy new Umphreys McGee album 
By GEOFFREY RAHIE Scene Music Critic 

Some people are just meant for each other. Joe Montana was called to throw long touchdown passes to Jerry Rico; John Belushi and Dan Akroyd worked on a "mission from God;" and on '"Songs for Old0r Wonrnn," the mcmbus of Cmphrey's McGee show why they were meant to make music together. The 72-minutc-long live recording contains eight tracks showing the band at its best. Much like an Umphrey's show. the effort is filled with complex song structures, pulsating groovr.s and intrmse jamming. Rut no matter how long each song is stretched out, the band -Brendan Bayliss. Ryan Stasik. Andy Farag. Joel Cummins and Michael Mirro -always seems to make each note fresh and i)xciting. The album kicks off with a funky track called "Hangover." The opening guitar takes it up a notch leaving the listener in a delightful whirlwind of sound. 
The rest of the music on "Songs" is pure enjoyment. "Muff II: The Hevenge" features Bayliss and Cummins trading guitar and keys solos while Stasik. Farag a n d Mirro keep a bluegrass rhythm. "The Other Side of Things" makes the listener feel as if he was at a carnival with the grinding nature of' Cummins' electric organ. 
The keyboards on the album arc never overbearing and always fit per• fectly with the par• ticular song. Bayliss' guitar work on "2X2," as on the 
one line to the next. never feeling 
redundant. The rhythm section, able to switch between hard-thumping grooves such as "Front Porch" and the laid-back lounge of "Thin Air," is so solid on the entire 
effort. Bassist Stasik can jump in and out of solos, providing even more color and texture to the performance, or simply lay down the bass line. Mirro's drum set and Farag's percussion duel throughout the CD making sure the songs are always complete. 
The trademark ol' Umphrey's McGee without a doubt is the highly intensive jamming found at 

takes the boys make sure the music 1s never boring. The band takes the listen­er on a journey with every new song, complete with loud, soft, fast and slow sections. Although the respective mem­bers get their chance to shine on various solos, the best moments on the album come when all five members unite to produce one big, rat nrnsh of sound. 
One aspect that should not b(\ over­looked is the singing found throughout "Songs." Although it might be Basy with all of the instrum1mtal mayhem to look past the vocals, Bayliss and Co. do a fine job on every track. Bayliss' voice is rem­iniscent of the lead singer of Silvcrchair, except Bayliss' vocals am morn con­trollml and depcndabln. The rest of the band contributes as well, backing up Bayliss whenever appropriatte. 
llowever, the way these five guys found each other is pretty irrelevant. The most important thing is that tlrny did find each other and they arc making fantastic music together now. "Songs for Older Women" showcases a band work­
figure is perfectly complemented by 
rest of the album, is every live ing hard to make thoughtful and excit­piano and keyboards. The groove is so authoritative and beautiful at unce. The show, and it shows up on the disc. Fans ing music. They have succeeded. solid that it could be played ovPr and electric guitar can best be described as will not be disappointed by the long over and no one would care. However, someone pouring a liquid from one cup departures that stretch every song.
time signatures change, and the band to another -melodies nuw freely from However, no matter how long the jam (out of live)
**** 

nee 

Tuesday, September 14, 1999 OBS~RVER page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 


Music of The Transoms is awesome 
-By TODD CALLAIS S,ene Mll,i,· Critic 
In tlw long tradition of innedibly tal­1•11lPd Notn• DamP rampus hands, tlw Tra11so111s havP joi,wd Lill' ranks ol' till' 1·lit1• wil h tlwir first album "tlw wt>aU11•r is h<'l'P ...... wish vou w<irp ltr•H ll Ii ru I... . B111 wait. BPl'orP gPtling too f11r alwad. tlw tlll' hand's l.wginning must II<' Pxplon•d. T lw Tr a 11 so m s It as Im P 11 a r o 11 11 d sint:1· I'Jf17 and originally was rom­pris1•d ol front m1111 and song writnr lohn !111st1111. drumnwr .Jprpmy Falh,r and hassisl .lim Hilt>k. Handom PVPllts and s1•m1•slPr abroad progra111;-, l'\f'lllt1ally caused Llw band lo go through a 1111111IH\r of' c!wngns. Hon (;arl'ia -l'orr111•rly of' llw B11ttnrf1y 1:ITPrl -al'l.t>r playing drums with t.hn hand for a littll' whill•. dP1·id1ld t.o takn ov1•r thP drum <luti1!s p11rma111l11tly al'tl'r l!P hPlpPd rnrnrd llw album this !->lllllllWr. SPall Markny look ovnr bass for Jim Bil,~k lat,• last yiiar. Tlw rest will lw history if' .John. Snan and Hon havP a11y1hi11g to do with it. Now to tlH~ maltc•r al hand -tlw ,lf'lllal alh11111. "tlw weatlwr lwrn ...... wish you w1•r1~ lrnautif'ul" is malty a 
grnat rocording that does an oxcellent _job ol' rnprnsonting the college scmrn today. It is au oxtension of some of liw gn~at bands of ilH' last couple or years such as Florida 
E v a n s 
Showband a 11 d HPvtw and tlw Bt1ltHrlly Ff'foct. 
Tlinn' is musk 011 t.his album for JHHJ· plo who liko punk, soft rock. alterna­1ivn, hard rnck, indin, clc.... namo il, thn Transoms got it. 
Part of' t.ho bnauty or tho album is thal 1101H• of' tlwir 111 usic sounds Lhc samn. l•:ach song is a dil'­forc•n t story and musical experience. Tlw aspect most likable about "the weather is hnrc ...... wish you wore beautif'ul" is tho great honesty and enthusiasm that can be lrnard in every song. Each song rnprnsents .John lluston's frustrations, sarcasm. humor and intellect. 
Tim album has 15 songs that arc all 
play-worthy, but liko overy album some songs stand out. Tlw intro song "When We Wore Cool" is among the best because it is a 
quick-paced song that has tho aforementioned sarcastic tone. "Cosmntic Surgery" is one ol' Uw best tracks on thr. album. with its great musical tran­sitions. It is clear that it is a really well-µruducod track. 
"Maroon & Blue," which is at Urn top or best ol' list, is a really great S O II g' 
L h a t w i I I make t h e 
group standout as their music inevitably gets bigger and bigger on campus and beyond. 
For those who like the really soft stuff, tracks nine and 10 will be enjoy­able. "Sharing Kisses" is a great song with a soft melody that pretty much any person will likn. "The New Nathan Dntroits" is a song by the band Braid. a group that would be honored to lwar the justice done by tho Transoms to its. 

"Throwing It All" -thn snrond-b<:st song on tho album -has a grirnl drum hnat. (crr.dit should be giv1•n to Doug Mceachr.rn, who played drums in thr. studio) and is a cool song that onP can nasily picturn seeing IH'rf'ornwd live. Finally the album nnds with "Gnneric Love Song," which is pretty sell'-Pxplanatory but is a groat r.nding to an already incrndiblo disc. 
The album currnntly is availabln f'or $8 and can br. purchasnd from John lluston at jhuston@nd.ndu or by visit­ing t lw Tra II so ms W n b s il P at. www.nd.edu/-jlwslonl. There b prob­ably going tu hn a CD rnlnasn party in thn 1war fut.urn. 
For those who like groups who us1i innovativn and creative music -likn the Pixies, Braid and Florida Evans Showband and Revue -"thn wnather is here ...... wish you were beautiful" is a choice album. It deservns any music lovers attention. 
(out of five)
***** 

---·------------------------------------------------------­
NEW RELEASES 
September 14, 1999 
Jon Spencer Blues Explosjon -Xira Acme Usa Left Over Salmon -Nashville Sessions Meatloaf -YH I Seroycellers 01' Dirty Bas-card -Nliaaa Please G.ueensryche -G.2N 
..


September 21, 1999 
Tori Amos -To Venus & Back Chris Cornell -Euphoria Nornin9 Ben Harper & the lnnocenc Criminals • Burn To Shine Pete Townshend -Peee Townshend Live 

UPCOMING CONCERTS .... 

South Bend 

Umphrey•s NcGee Benchwarmers Sepe. 17 Off the Wall Blues The Nidway Tavern Sept. 18 
starring NO sociology professor jumpin' Gene Halton 


Chicago 

Bela Fleck Skyline Staae Sept. IS Nanic S-creet Preachers Netro Sepi:. 18 Umphrey's NcGee Subcerranean Sepe. 24 Bruce Sprin9sceen United Ceneer Sept. 27-30 

Indianapolis 
-

G Love & Special Sauce Eayptian Rpom Sept. 16 Freddy Jones Band Yo9ue Sepe. 1a 
,---------------------------­
-

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 14, I999 
.. 
NHL 


Dallas gets four goals in second period to beat Blackhawks 5-2 
Gavey. ------------Mike Modano ended the 
As.,ociated Press 
Jamie Langenbruuner had two goals as the Dallas Stars scored four times in tho scc­
o n d period for  a  5-2 win  
over  the  Chicago  
Blackhawks  on  Monday  
night.  

Dallas trailed 2-0 midway through the second period affor goals by Bob Probert and Kyle Calder, but scored three goals iu a three­minute span. 
Darryl Sydor scored his first goal of the preseason, one-timing a pass from Joe Nieuwcndyk on ii power play at 11 ::n of the socond peri­od. 
Guy Carbonneau tied it two minutes later on a feed from Juha Lind after Shawn Anderson poked the puck free from two charging Blackhawks. Langenbrunner put the Stars up a minute later on a pass from Aaron flurrv when he beat Chicago goai"ie Steve Passmorn at l 8:22 on a power play. It was his second of the prc­scason. 
Langenbrunner scored again at 17:1 7 of the third period on a power play, con­verting a pass from Nieuwendyk. 
Chicago took a 2-0 lead when Probert scored on a rebound at 18:37 of the first and Calder deflected a shot bv Nathan Perrott at 3:16 of ttie second. 
The physical game was halted twice in the second period when sections of glass were knocked out from hard hits. 
Rangers 5,CoyotPs 2 
Stephane Quintal scored two goals and Adam Graves added a goal aud an assist as the New York Rangers boat the Phoenix Coyotes 5-2 Monday night. 
free-agent acquisitions Quintal and Valeri Kamensky scored 2:12 apart in the first period to give the Rangers (1-1-0) a :{-1 lead. Quintal one-timod a pass from Mike Knuble, and Kamensky tipped in a shot by defenseman Sylvain Lefebvre. 
The teams traded power­play goals in the game's first 8:58. 
Quintal opened the second period with a goal at 1:45, and Graves scored 1:12 later on the power play to make it 5-1. 
Jean-Guv Trudel and Daniel Briere scored for Phoenix (0-2-1 L which played without veterans Keith Tkachuk, Dallas Drake and Hir,k Tocchet. 
Kim Johnsson had two assists for New York, and goalies Milan Hlinicka and Jean-Francois Labbe com­bined for 20 saves. 
NFL 



Smith holds out for better Cards contract 
Associated Press 

TEMPE, Ariz. 
The season has begun and Mark Smith still is holding out for a better contract from the Arizona Cardinals, although his agent said Monday that the defensive tackle will eventually join the team. 
"At a certain point, he will go in," Gil Thompson said. "lie would be stupid nut to." 
But for now, the impasse between the third-year player and the Cardinals continues. 
"We're evaluating the situation week to week," Thompson said. "He's not coming in this week and be has no plans to come in next week." 
The Cardinals at one lime had increased their offer to Smith lo $500,000, but since have retreated to their original tender offer of $325,000. At the lower rate, Smith is losing just over $20,000 for each game he miss­es. 
Thompson said he had reduced Smith's demand from 
just over $1 million to $795,000 last week. 
"And I was willing to negotiate more to get him in before the season started," Thompson said. 
Rut, he said, the Cardinals refused to budge. 
Now, the agent said, Smith is so upset that he wonders if he really wants to play for the fran­chise at all. 
"There are other issues now," Thompson said, "such as how committed is this team to win­ning. 
"You've got 31 teams in the NFL, and 30 of them are com­mitted to winning. This is the only one that doesn't want to win." 
But Smith doesn't have many options. As a third-year player, he must be on the team for at least six games to become a restricted free agent af'ter this season. Even then. if another team signs him after this season, Arizona would get compensation in the form of draft picks. 
Chances are, Smith is tied to the Cardinals for the next two, seasons. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.rn. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classified, is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT  For rent-houses & apartments  WANTED·  Need tix for Oklahoma, Anzona  Hi to Stella, Mary, Jeanine. Laura,  
GROUPS­ 2994928.  ND tootball tix.  State.  Cynthia, and Allie. And Sean.  
NOTICES  Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS  AM • 232-2378  Call Michelle, 233-9037or 631­ 
Fund eventNo sales required.Fund  PM -288•2726  4542.  Anybody been munching by the  
Rasier days are filling up, so call  FOR SALE  lake lately?  
today.Contact Joe @ 1-888-522­ ND football !ix for sale.  NEED· NAVY G.A. TICKETS  
In search of Antarctica phone #.  4350.  Spring Break Specials! Bahamas  AM • 232-2378  C. ZIMMERMAN  Kate Rowland,  
Call 4-3027.  Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  PM -288-2726  573-796-2943  I believe in football they call that a  
Large Physical Therapy Clinic look­ Meals!  "late hit."  
ing for part time employees to do  Awesome  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  NEED 5 MICH. ST. TIX  
follow up calls Some filing &  Beaches,Nightlife\Cancun &  GAMES.2726551  Call 631-7745  Snow. Emily Snow  
LOST & FOUND  inputting required. Flexible evening hours. Ask for Gerard Call now  Jamaica 7 Nights From $3991 Florida  BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT­ NEED 2 CHICAGO BEARS TIX;  MUNCH.  
233-5754  $1291springbreaktravelcom  BALL TICKETS.  October 3rd vs. New Orleans  
FOUND: Large male Golden  1-800-678-6386  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  Saints. Email me at  And here's a shout out to  
Labrador with red collar on campus  DAVECARON@BMO.COM  Michelle K.  
on 9/8199.  Officials:  NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!!  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
Call 289-9967.  Officials needed for Outdoor Soccer  $20 ->669 minutes  ++  Smile, baby. We loves you.  
and Indoor Lacrosse. Earn good  Call 243-9361, ask for Rob  N.O. FOOTBALL TICKETS  For Sate: 2GA tix: MState,  
LOST·  money, meet new people, & HAVE  BUY/SELL/fRADE  Oklahoma 287-1449  
FUN! Experience helpful, but we  FOR SALE  ALL GAMES  Hi Joe.  
NO WALLET & KEYS ON TUES­ will train everybody. Contact the  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  ALL LOCATIONS  
DAY, 9/7. IF FOUND, PLEASE  RecSports office-Brandon  CALL 271-9412  GREAT PRICES  Need one Oklahoma Ticket.  
CALL ANALISSA  Leimbach or Jeff Walker @ 631­ 271-9330  x4017-Chris  
4-4096,  6100, or stop by the office in the  FOR SALE  !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!!  This one's for my mom and dad,  
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center.  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  TICKETMART INC.  because at least my dad checks the  
LOST  CALL 271-9412  www.ndtickets.com  Need MSU tix  classifieds although sometimes my  
A palmpilot. Palm V, in a leather casing. Extremely important1 If  FOR RENT  FREE TRIAL OF A BRAND NEW  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++  1·800-257-3244 ext2615 Ted  mom skips them.  
found please call at 4-0870  TECHNOLOGY 30 MIN LONG DIS­ But she would want to read them  
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  TANCE CALLS FREE SEND SASE  BUYING  Need up to 10 USC !ix for famiiy.  today because I'm going to say,  
HOME FOR  TO G MARKS PO BOX 920528  GA FOOTBALL TICKETS  Will pay good price.  "Mom, I LOVE your cookies, even if  
WANTED  ND-SMC EVENTS. ·­VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  NEEDHAM,MA. 02492  ALL HOME GAMES ....... . 277-1659  Call Matt at 273-2802 and leave msg.  they have chocolate chips in them."  
243-0658.  Bike Huffy 24" 18 gear  There. I told you put it in there.  
STUDENT OPENINGS  only 6 mo. old $60  FOR SALE  I need ONE USC ticket!  
5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  246-0719 after 7pm  N.O. FOOTBALL TICKETS  please call Nicole at X 1331  
classes.  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  CALL271-9412  We miss you, Missy!  
Scholarships avail.  available for football/parent wknds.  I NEED 2 TIX FOR THIS WEEK•  
www.worklorstudents.com/lN  5 Rooms with private baths, $80­ LAKEFRONT BY OWNER. 3 bdrm.  NEED OKLAHOMA TICKETS!  END AGAINST MICH. ST.  
282-2357  $115, Middlebury. 30 miles from  ranch, lg den, 2 car gar., futl base­ CALL TIM, 634·0959  PL~ASE CALL 634-3080.  
campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­ ment, 3 seas. porch, deck, most ev.  You too, Jen and Colleen.  
Spring Break ·oo  B00-418-9487  new, much more. 15 mi. from cam­ SPRING BREAK 2000  FOR SALE ND FOOTBALL TICK­ 
Cancun.Mazatlan or Jamaica  pus.  "THE MILLENIUM"  ETS. NAVY $55, ASU $65. CALL  Anne Marie and Colleen, if you're  
From $399  3·6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­ 616-663-6308.  A NEW DECADE .. NCE IN TRAV­ 289-8048  reading, the news department says  
Reps wanted! Sell t 5 and travel  PUS. NOW OR 2000/2001.ROOMS  EL.FREE TRIPS.FREE  hi.  
free!  ALSO 272-6306  MEALSIJAMAICA.CANCUN,FLORI  
LOWEST PRICES GUARAN­TEED'!!  LOADED  DA,BAABAOOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS  NEED 2 MSU TIX  I have lost all spelling skills. This does not bode well.  
6 Bedrm '00-01 yr.  BUY A NEW PENTIUM II 450  AND FREE MEALSI  CALL DAN 634-0959  
lnfo:Call 1-800-446-8355  273-0482 / 234-3831  MHZ HP COMPUTER FOR A  1800-426· 771 0  And Jack is waiting.  
www.sunbreaks.com  GREAT PRICE CALL ERIC @  WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM  
WANTED: Student bus help. Apply  3 bdrm duplex, remodeled. 503 Eddy, one mile from campus.  4-1882  Spain rocks: hey to all the people from Toledo.  
at UNIVERSITY CLUB 9am-5pm.  Appliances, W/D. 273-8332.  Family seeks 2,3, or 4 tickets to  
.....  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS MANDA­TORY.  House for rent. Five bedrooms,  NO-Navy game Oct. 30, reasonable priced.  London was better. Fall '98. yeah,  
Competitive wages, meals provid­ two bathrooms. beautiful cond1­tion,$1500/mo.  TICKETS  412-741-8727  WANTED:MSU:USCTICKETS CALL:247-1659  Dream on.  
ed.  Call Bill at 675-0776.  BIG IRISH CATHOLIC FAMILY!  Yes. but I'm typing and I get the last  
WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ word. London!  
- DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL YEAR! $1200 TO $2000 THIS MONTH.  House for rent. 8 bedrooms, two bathrooms, completely renovated. Call Bill at 675-0776.  BALL TICKETS 271·1526  NEED 16 G.A. TIX FOR USC GAME!  PERSONAL In search of Antarctica phone #.  Buongiorno, principessa!  
Part time 4 to 6 hours per week. Call 24 hrs  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICKETS  CALL DAVE@ 773-281-7690 OR 610-971-2295 WITH ANY TIX.  Call4-3027 Congrats to Laura Cannizzaro!  Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You kill my father. Prepare to die.  
(219) 239-6709  219-291-7153  277-6619  THANKS.  Mom is proud.  Stop SAYING that!  

Tuesday, September I4, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

This Week in Campus Ministry 

Conlinuing through September 20 103 Hesburgh library, l 12 Bodin Holl 
Freshman Retreat #24 (Sept. 24-25) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Badin. Keenan. Lewis, O'Neill Family, l'asyuerilla East. St. Edward's, Morrissey, Walsh, and Zahm 
Tuesday September 14 7:00 pm Badin Holl Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, September 15, l 0 00-10:30 pm Walsh Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
A spirit-filled. student-led power half hour of prayer and music for students of all Christian faith traditions. 
Wedn(•'.,duy September 15. 7:30-8:00 pm Coffee House-Center for Social Concerns 
Informational Meeting for Holy Cross Mission in Coachella, California on January 3-10, 2000 
Wednesday, Seplember 15, 9 30-10 30 pm 
Notre Dame Campus Ministry's Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Students' and their Friends Faith Community 
Thursday September 16 7:30-8:00 pm Coffee House-Center for Social Concerns 
Informational Meeting for Holy Cross Mission in Coachella, California on January 3-10, 2000 
Sunday September 19, l 00 pm Noire Dome Room -Lafortune 
RCIA-Information Session for Candidates 
Monday, September 20. 6.00-730 pm Lafortune Ballroom 
Emmaus Kick-Off 
\V\V\v.nd.edu/~n1inistry 2 00 \) 
Forget Y2K••••Are you ready for 




J2K@ND? 
. What is the Great Jubilee of the Year 2000? 
We arc on the threshold of celebrating the year 2000, the beginning of a new millen­nium. We are using this occasion to celebrate 2000 years of Christ's presence and trans­forming effect in human history and to challenge us to a renewed effort to proclaim the Gospel in such a way as to transform modern society and culture. 
The church has marked this first year of the new millennium, the year 2000, as a Year of Jubilee. Jubilee in the original Hebrew means a "ram's horn" It was used to herald "a year of the Lord's favor" (Is. 61: 1-2). According to Jewish law, every fiftieth year was designated as a Jubilee Year, a time when the land was to lie fallow, mortgage debts would be remitted, and slaves would be freed. The theological meaning of the Jubilee was that all life and land belongs to God. The Catholic Church adopted this practice and since 1300 has celebrated Jubilees as times of repentance and renewal, special blessings, prayers and pilgrimages. 
The scriptures of Leviticus chapter 25, Isaiah chapter 61, and Luke 4: 16-30 provide the core teachings and essential pastoral traditions and practices of the Jubilee. 

Countdown to 1• J2K@N D: 108 days 
I¦
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

Watch this space for more info about the Great Jubilee and J2K@ND events sponsored by Campus Ministry & the Center for Social Concerns 
Don't miss the... 
tCI 
CCNTER FOR 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

Sept.20 
., 
.....,-.. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 14, 1999 
NFL 


San Francisco shows 
•
age 10 season opener 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
Steve Mariucci tried to make light of the questions. The San Francisco 49ers coach ran his hands through his hair, gave a nervous gig­gle and joked that everyone is getting older. some faster than others. 
It was harder to laugh off the source of l\1onday·s ques­tions because it's apparent 

,. the 49ers not only are show­ing their age but their offense showed practically nothing in a disastrous opener. San Francisco began the year Sunday with a 41-3 loss at Jacksonville, its worst reg­ular season defeat since a 59­14 drubbing by Dallas in 1980. On a team with a powerful and proud offensive legacy. what made the loss even more disturbing was the total breakdown in 
production and 
"We have seven
the frazzled play game at home of Steve Young days to make it in his two pn1­and Jerry Hice, happen and we vious seasons the team's best, in San
will."
albeit, oldest Francisco, said stars. he's hoping for So when Steve Young a quick turn­Mariucci was around.
49ers' quarterback 
"
as_ked directly 
about the play of 
his 38-year-old quarterback. 
he reacted defensively. 
"He's not 38 till October." :vtariucci said. And he added he has faith that the play of Young, Rice and everyone else on the team will get bet­ter. 
"I've got to," Mariucci said. 
Young had perhaps his best season last year, setting career highs for passing yardage (4,170) and touch­downs (36), but against Jacksonville he turned in his worst performance since becoming San Francisco's starter nine years ago. He fin­ished 9-of-26 with no touch­downs, two interceptions and two sacks. 

.. He didn't get much help from the 36-year-old Rice, the NFL's career leader in recep­tions, receiving yardage and touchdowns who made just two catches but also was guilty of a couple drops. "They played in a game where it was a little rough but the entire team was flat," Mariucci said. "Oh yeah, we're all getting older, some of us faster than others. But I've been nothing but pleased with those guys. Young and Rice may have been the focal point of San Francisco's offensive failings but the other elements of the team's attack also let down. 
J.J. Stokes and Terrell Owens failed to hold on to several catchable balls and Charlie Garner and Lawrence Phillips failed to muster much of a rushing game to take some of the pressure off Young. 
That means now more than ever, the 49ers are relying on their quarterback to make plays and it's getting harder for Young to pull it off. 
Young insisted the debacle at Jacksonville was not a sign of the times or age but just one bad game, a clunker that got out of hand because of some key turnovers. Jacksonville didn't have a turnovers, while San Francisco had five, including a second-quarter fumble by Young that wiped out the 49ers' best chance to score a touchdown. 
San Francisco finished just 1-for-14 in third-down con­versions while scoring the fewest points in a game since a 10-3 loss to New Orleans in 1991. 
"Clearly. we were miscom­municating, misfiring, howev­er you want to say it," Young said. 
"We have seven days to make something happen and we will." 
San Francisco plays New Orleans on Sunday in its home opener. 
"Everybody should be very critical of themselves," Owens said. "WA need to clean up our own shop in order to get this team back on track." 
Mariucci, who 
has never lost a 
W e · v e 
played poorly on occasion before but I know this. this team has always responded the right way and played well the next game," Mariucci said. "Now, does that mean we'll do it again? Only time will tell. We have to do it again this year. 
"We can't make assump­tions because of what's gone on in the past. Just because we led the league in rushing last year doesn't mean we're going to rush the ball very • well this year. We've got to do it this year. Just because we led the league in nine differ-. ent offensive categories, doesn't mean we're going to do it this year. We've got to play like that. It starts over. We've got to do it again." 

Buffalo's top rusher out six weeks 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 
Thurman Thomas, Buffalo's all-time leading rusher and most versatile player, will be sidelined for at least six weeks, coach Wade Phillips said Monday. 
Thomas bruised his liver and kidneys on the first play of the team's season-opening loss at Indianapolis when he reached up to catch a high pass from Doug Flutie. 
Thomas, in his 12th season, has never missed more than two games in an NFL season. He missed consecutive games only once, when a hamstring injury slowed him in 1995. 
Thomas, 33. was hit in the ribs by Indianapolis corner­back Tyrone Poole. Thomas got up slowly and walked to the sidelines. He did not play again and spent the second half on the sideline in a shirt and tie watching the Bills lose to the Colts 31-14. 
"It makes me feel sick to my stomach because I put the ball up there and it was a bad read and I didn't see the cor­ner closing," Flu tic said. "That really frustrates me. Out of all the plays in that game, even the interception 
Get in on ttte 
action -work for The Observer sports department. 
Write. Edit. Do production. 
Interested? 

Call 1-4543. 

return for a touchdown, that bothers me more than any­thing." 
Flutie said he apologized to Thomas for the bad pass, and that Thomas told him that he also hadn't seen Poole closing in. 
"He thought he was wide open," Flutie said. "He didn't see the corner out there either. 
"My attitude was I'm sorry. His attitude was, 'don't think twice about it.· It happens out there, and it does." 
"He has to be careful he doesn't try to come back too soon. Sometimes people try to push you back on the field." 
Andre Reed 

Bills' receiver 

Thomas is ninth on the NFL's career rushing list with 11,786 yards and needs 334 to catch hanco Harris, in eighth place. 
"He has to be careful he doesn't try to come back too soon," said Buffalo receiver Andre Reed, one of' three players along with Thomas and Bruce Smith remaining from the Bills' four Super Bowl teams. "Sometimes pco• pie try to push you back on the field." 
Thomas, who rushed for 381 yards in a reduced role last season, will be replaced by Jonathan Linton, who had five carries for 16 yards and caught three passes for 42 yards. · Losing Thomas threw the entire offense off. 
"It hurt us in the passing game because he's the one that picks up the zone blitzes for us," Phillips said. 
Intending to feature Thomas in a pass-oriented attack, the Bills sputtered. They stum­bled on the ground, finishing with 47 yards on 15 carries. 
Flutie threw for 300 yards, but the Colts sacked him five times and picked off two of his passes. 
Buffalo's offensive line caved in and allowed no room to run. The starting back, Antowain Smith, finished with seven yards on six carries. 
The Hills abandoned the run, hoping Flutie could run and throw. 
"I thought we could spread 'em out and move thn football and score, and we just didn't do that," Phillips said. 

Experience dining in the truet)1t,~
spirit of Notre Dame. tSiuNS 
631-2020 

IJ~® W@~~~ IJ@ W~IJ~IJl]@uaa@®~ [Jww®~W®~ 


, •
Notre Dame Student Council on International Business Development 

ND-::;:IBO 



First Division Meetings-Tuesday September 14, 1999 Accounting 5:00-5:45 Internships 6:00-6:45 Citizens Democracy Corps 7:00-7:45 
All Meetings Held in the Dooley Room in LaFortune Student Center 
CW' w 
page 17 

Tuesday, September 14, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 




UCLA coach selects Paus as starting quarterback 
A..ociated Press 
I.OS ANGEi.ES Cory l'aus, who split playing linrn with Drnw Bonnell in 
UCIJ\'s first two ganws this sea­son. will Im thn Bruins' slarting quarhirlmck. 
UCLA 1:oach Bob Toledo said fast 111011th he would idttirnatn tlw two for at least lwo games lwl'ore naming a pi:rmancnt startnr. 
I111 was tnrn lo his word. 
"We l'onl at this tinw that it's bnsi f'or us to go with Cory Paus." Toledo said Monday. "Cory will b(J the starling quar­terback for now. He's throwing Urn ball llrn bcsl, that's the crux 
of Urn thing. 
'Tm hoping it's a dncision for a long tim11, but you never really know that. lle'II bn given a great chanco to succ<wd. Wn'II see what kind of clncision I made." 
Paus, a rn<lshirt frnshman who has completed 20 of' 38 passes for 225 yards and ono touch­down with thrnc interceptions, will make his lirsl starl Saturday 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
A THENS, GREECE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director l11teroalional Study Programs And Returning Students 
Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
4:45 PM 

201 DeBartolo 

night against Fresno State al the they wore starters before and bigger sense of relief when we Hose Bowl in the 21st-ranked the other guys were backups. actually play in a game." Bruin's nnal non conference "Leadership, that's the biggest The senior said he believes game. thing. The other night lat Ohio he's learned his lesson. 
UCLA opens Pacific-10 State], we had nine fmshmen on "There's always a blessing in Conference play Sept. 25 at defense on the field at one time. the storm. Maybe later in my Stanford. You don't think I was a little ner­life, I would have tried to take a 
Bennett. a junior who backed vous? The same thing offensive­shortcut through something, and up Cade Mcl'-;own the last two ly. It's unbelievable how young gotten something worse than a years, started UCLA's :~8-7 victo­we were. But it will pay divi­two-game suspension." ry ovflr Boise State and 42-20 dends." Nece, a sophomore, admitted loss to No. 1:3 Ohio State, and The four returnees who will the last couple of months have 
complotBd 17 of 31 passes for start on defense are linebackers been dillicult for him. 258 yards and two touchdowns Tony White, Robert Thomas and "We made a mistake. we got with two intcrcPptions. Byan Nece, and strong safety punished for it. We deserved it, 
"Now that I've made tho deci­R y a n without a sion, I feel very good about it," Roques. doubt. I'm 
Returning "Leadership, that's the looking for­
Toledo said. "I bnliove Cory Paus will <lo very well. ff you were just as first­biggest thing. The other night ward to my going by stats. you would have stringers community
fat Ohio State}. we had nine
pick<'d Bennett. We don't just go on offense snrvice." 
freshmen on defense on the
by stats. I want to go with one arc full­Roques and quarterbar.k." back Durell field at one time. You don't Necc were Toledo said Pa.us was a unani­Price and two ol' nine
think I was a little nervous?" 
mous choicu of the offensive g u a r d defendants coaclrns, and thal Bennett took 0 s c a r who pleaded the news "very hard." Cabrera. Bob Toledo no contest to 
"But hB understands, he's a A I s o UCLA head coach the misde­team guy," Toledo said.. "When returning meanor you tell a guy he's not going to are line-charge of ille­be a starter anymore, it's no fun backer Ali gally possess­
for the player or the coach." Abdul Azziz, safety Eric ing a handicap placard on July 
Paus wou't be the only new Whitfield. offensive guard James 28 and was ordered each to pay starter against Fresno State -Ghezzi and tailback Keith $1,485 in fines and perform 200 the Bruins will welcome back 10 Brown. hours of community service. players suspended for the first Cornerback Marques Ten more are scheduled to be two games for illegally obtaining Anderson, also suspended for arraigned Tuesday. including handicapped parking permits, the first two games, was sus­McNown, now with the Chicago 
and six are listed as first­pended from school for the fall Bears, and Washington Redskins stringers on the latest depth quarter as well for other univer­running back Skip Hicks, who chart. sity-related incidents. were among five additional cur­
"That's a big chunk out of your "There's a big sense of relief," rent or former UCLA football 
team," Toledo said. "We should Roques said concerning his players charged Monday with 
be better. There's a reason why return. "l think there will be a illegally possessing handicapped 
Spencer Stefko -J.P. Cooney -Yvette Piggush -l.eah Thomas-Theresa Noone -Elizabeth Rakowski-Kevin Rice -Ann Searle -Whitney Wishon -James Parrot ­
Laura Stevenson-Janine Kirkowski -Nicole Stenke -Jamiko Rose -john Fiorenza -Kate Kowalski -Courtney Blum -Amy Ehrman -Rebekah Go-John Infranca ­Octavio Martin -Kathy Motyka -Nathan Elliot -Kathryn Gonzalo -Samantha Snyder -Maria Eidietis-Ben Murphy-Jill Pentimonte -Helga Schaffrin -Dina 
Brick -Christine Mate/is -Rosemary Caballero -Maria Carranza -Margaret Cho/is -Theresa Gibbons -Shaye L. l.oughlin -Meghan Morgan -Susan Prchal ­Caroline Roselli -Erin Kelly Smith -Stephanie Snyder -Megan Speaks -Chris Fretel -Kristen Bree -Laura Colleton -Robert Barnidge, Jr. -Colleen Kratt -Josh Nemeth -Ji/f Saunders -Erin Lum -Chak Kei Woo -Carianne Kretz -Susan Barclay -Julie Burke -Eric de Place -Katie Donohoe -Eifeen Dunne -Jacob Goldkamp 
-Gretchen Hasse/bring -Patrick Johnson -Nora Mahoney -Melissa Matheny-Linda Raven -Leah Toeniskoetter -Laura Vanderberg -Anne Zaura -Sara Ellen 
West -Sherrecia Jones -Kef/y Fitzpatrick -Rebecca Hammel -Anne Iaseua -Maureen Neville -Matthew E. Decarolis -Karen Flynn -Amy Spicer-Lauren O'Brien­Andy OiJJella -Celia Antonini -Katie Bennett -Christopher Beza -Ryan Blaney -Jeffery Boetticher -Christine Bos/ -Andrea Bueno -Anthony Castellino -Chad Christopl1erson -Gina Couri -Claire Deckelman -Marcia Oel Rios -Antonio DeSapio -Brian Oilton -Jennifer Ehren ­

'I ••1• ,.,, 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

CONCE:RNS 
50~ You are cordially invited to the 
• 
Post-Graduate Se,vice Fair

-~!~.·'•": 
Wednesday, September 15 

;! (J \\ ~ 
6-9 p.m. at Stepan Center-

ti-ii
, t II I I " I -, • 
SOCII\L 
CONCl!AN ¦
Please come to explore service programs and considerjoining with these


i~.~'"' 
171 graduates ofthe Class of '99 

:,,, u u (\ 

who are committing to a year or two 


ti-11
,1 .. 11• ,,,,
with 40 different programs 
SOC I A. L

SOC I A. L 
CONCERNSCONCERNS 

Jessica Fries -Marjorie Hill-Matthew Johnson -Sarah Karr -Seisha Keith -Kevin Kiefer -Jonathan Lang -Mark Leen -Marisa Yvette Limon -Mark Low -Robert 
Luawikoski -Veronica Maldonado -Elizabeth McAaams-John McMahon -Marshawna Moore -Benny Morten -Mary-Colleen Murphy -Gina Navoa -Jeffrey 
Nichols -Joseph Otegario· Katherine Pyttak -Wesley Richardson -Lisa Rodriguez -Rosalinda Rosales -Maureen Ryan -Patricia Sevilla -Malin Stearns­
Brenaon Sullivan -Kelfy Swinarski-Christopher Thomas -Joanne Wagner -Mary Westervelt -Catherine Bamberg -Megan Barry -George-Phillip Patrick 
Boulafentis -Diana Buran -Caroline Campaigne -Courtney Carpenter -Allison Fashek -Mary Finley -Katie Fox -Julie Galbo -Christina Goetz -Bret 
Hendrickson -Megan Hennessey-Deborah Irwin -Sinead Keegan -Adam Krupa -Chris Legus-Karen Likar -Eduardo L/ull -Jennifer Mashek -Kristie Mccann • 
Krista McCarthy-Bridget McNicholas -Elena Millner -Brenna Moore -Martin Moran -Kathleen O'Boyte -Nate Payovich -Brian Clarke -Anne Iacobucci -Erin Atwell -Ameya BUoor -Alex Gese-Luther Groth -Briaget Holland -Justin Johnson -Michael Kiernan -Ett McDonnell -Maureen Hoover -Mary Beth Lasseter ­
Erika Fuehrmeyer-Amy Fatura -Cheryl Igiri •Meghan Hennessey -Frederick Labrecque -Toaa Lanager -Jaclyn Lievense (names as of 6/7/99) 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 14, 1999 
NFL 



Marino spurs Miami to opening victory over Broncos 
partially blocked a Denver punt, pass of the game to Ed
Associated Press 
giving Miami possession at the Mccaffrey, an 11-yarder, with Denver 43, and Olindo Mare 3:42 left in the quarter after
DENVER 
kicked a 3 7 -yard field goal. rookie Chris Watson returned a The Dolphins made it 24-7 by kickoff 39 yards. 
Helped by two big special 
opening the second half with a The Broncos began pursuit ofteams plays. Dan Marino led 65-yard touchdown drive. an unprecedented third straightMiami to scores on four straight Marino passed 25 yards to Super Bowl title. 
possessions. and the Dolphins 
Tony Martin, and a 15-yard per­Less than four minutes intoled the Denver Broncos 24-14 sonal foul penalty against cor­the game, Griese threw a 61­aftPr three quarters on Monday 
nerback Ray Crockett was yard touchdown pass to
night. 
tacked on, moving the Dolphins McCatTrey to give Denver a 7 -0 
Terrell Buckley's 43-yard 
to the Denver 26. Six plays later, lead,
return of a blocked field goal rookie JJ. Johnson scored from Griese, a second-year pro whoearly in the second quarter set 
the 1. was elevated over Bubby Brister up the first Miami score. Marino Denver's Brian Griese, making in the preseason to be the suc­passed 12 yards to rookie full­the first start of his NFL career, cessor to Elway, was 4-of-6 onback Rob Konrad for the next. 
threw his second touchdown the Broncos' opening drive, andLate in the half, Greg Jeffries 


Denver retires Elway's jersey 
his voice wavering. 'Tm going to is sure to be inducted into the Associated Press miss you, but I'm not going to be Pro Football I !all of Fame when far away because I'm going to be he becomes eligible in 2004. DENVER. Colorado a Denver Bronco forever." Only Dan Marino, who was in 
On the field where he won 105 Tears formed in Elway's eyes the Miami locker room during games, Elway was indurted into as his name was unveiled on the the haltlime ceremony, has more the Broncos' Ring of Fame on facade of the stadium's north­passing yards than Elway, who Monday night and watched as west corner. finished with 51,475. the No. 7 jersey he wore for 16 'Td really like to say what an Elway also had 300 career seasons was retired. honor it is to see my name up touchdown passes and an NFL­
Accompanied by his wife, there," Elway said. "To have my leading 148 victories as a Janet, and their four children, name associated with the Ring of starter. The statistic Elway will Elway turned his 15-minute trib­Fame is truly a great honor." be remembered best for is his 47 ute at halftime of the game v\-ith Elway, who retired after win­game-tying or game-winning Miami into an emotional dedica­ning his second straight Super drives. tion to the fans who watched Bowl title, is the 16th member of 'Tm going to clue the world in him grow from an immature Denver's Ring of Fame and the on this Mile High magic," Elway quarterback to a certain Hall of first inductee since Louis Wright told the fans. "They can talk Farner. was inducted in 1993. about the altitude, They can talk 
'Tm so happy that the · The Broncos waived the about the field. They can talk Baltimore Colts traded me here, mandatory five-year waiting about everything, but the key you can't believe it," Elway said, period for Elway's induction. He thing to Mile High magic is you." 

both incompletions were on balls dropped by receivers Rod Smith and McCaffrey. 
On third-and-15 from the Denver 39, Mccaffrey slipped behind safeties Shawn Wooden and Brock Marion and caught Gricse's pass at the 25, beating the defenders to the end zone for a 7-0 lead with 11:15 left in the quarter. 
Marino completed a 7-yard pass to Abdul-Jabbar and a 28­yarder to McDuffie, and two plays later Abdul-Jabbar scored from the 1 with 8:54 left in the half. 
Marino's 40-yard pass to 
Martin highlighted a subsequent 
seven-play, 80-yard drive that 
ended when Marino found 
Konrad wide open in the right 
flat. That made it 14-7 with 3:02 . left in the half. 
After Mccaffrey dropped a 
long pass, Tom Rouen 's punt 
was deflected by Jeffries with 
1:37 left. The Dolphins reached the 10, but Marino was whistled for intentional grounding, set­ting up a field goal. 
At the half, Marino was 9-of­17 for 133 yards, while Griese was 9-of-18 for 126 yards. The Dolphins held Terrell Davis to 30 yards on 11 carries. 

THE UNIVEl'lSIT't 01" NOTRE 01'MC OEPARTMENT OF MU:SIC PRESENTS GUit:ST ARTISTS 
THE LYDIAN STRING QUARTET 
0....,..IEL STEP"NER JUDITH El:S:SENllERG MARY RUTH RAY 
QuA~ET IN C MAJOR, 


$3 SruO!.NTS
"DISSONANCE• BY W.A. MOZART $6 SENIORS 
$8 ND/SMC

STRING 0UARTET IN Two MOVEMENTS $10GA EY Ell-iAN HA!MO 
AVAILABLE AT THE 

QUARTET IN F MA.JOR LAFORTUNE Box OFFICE BY MAURICE RAVEL OR CHARGE BY F"HONE 121 Q) 631 ·8 l 28. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER I 5, I 999 
7:30 PM, PRE-CONCERT TALK, WASHINGTON HALL 
8:00 PM, CONCERT, WASHINGTON HALL 
FOR MORI!: INF""OAMATION. F'L£A:SE VISIT OUFl WEB SIT!'. AT WWW.ND. EDU/-MU:51C OR CALL 12: IQ) 63 I ·620 1 

acousticafe thursday visit our website at entrapment thursday 10:30pm www.nd.edu/~sub
9pm -12am fri &sat 8 and 10:30pm to check out who's
the huddle cushing auditorium
playing acousticafe

free $2 admission
and to preview sub's upcoming events. 

Tuesday, September 14, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS NATIONAL LEAGUE 
page 19 

NFL 

Williams pitches 3-0 shutout for Padres 
Chandler fights 
IIlJUry 
Associated Pre&< 
SUWANEE, Ga. 

Chris Chandler hobbled into work Monday, not knowing if he would have to call in sick a week later. 
The Atlanta Falcons quar­terback, plagued by injuries throughout his career, severo­ly strained his right hamstring Sunday in the sr,ason-opening 1 7 -14 loss to Minnesota. 
Coach Dan Heevos listed Chandler as doubtful for next Monday night's game against Dallas. 
The quarterback said he would withhold judgment for a few more days. 
"It's hard to tell this early in the week," Chandler said. "It's a real sharp pain." 
Ile won't try to practice until Thursday at the earliest. In the meantime. his ham­string will receive constant attention. 
"From a selfish standpoint, it has been 11 years since I have played on 'Monday Night Football.' I want to play." Chandler said. "From a team standpoint. 1 know we have a lot better chance when I'm out there." 
Chandler has been a Pro Bowl selection the last two seasons, but his 12-year career has been marred by injuries. 
In 1998, he sprained his left shoulder and bruised ribs against New Orleans, forcing him to leave that game and miss the following week's con­test against the Jets. The Falcons lost 28-3. 
Four weeks later against Chicago, Chandler sprainnd his right knee and ankle. leav­ing that game and once again forcing him to sit out the next contest. The Falcons managPd to beat the St. Louis Hams 21­10 behind backup quarter­back Steve DeBerg. 
Chandler injured the same hamstring during a prcseason practice and sat out an nxhibi­tion game three clays later against Tennessee. 
"llopcfully. thosn extra three or four days (before the Dallas game) will be benefi­cial," he said. 
San Diego scored all thrne of 

Auoci~1cd !'re,. 
its runs off Terry Mulholland (8­8). The left-hander allowed con­
SAN VIEGO 
secutive one-out singles in the Woorly Williams took a slrntout second inning, then with two into the ninth inning and also hit ouL-; allowed HBI singl+1s to Chris an HBI singln as the San Diego Gomez and Williams. 

l'aclrns b1mt i\tlanta 3-0 Monday Mullwlland allowed nine hits 
night, tlrn Brnv1is' third straight in live innings, struck out ewo loss. 
and walked two. 

Atlanta's lead in the NL East was cut to omi gamn over the 
Mel"i 6 Rockies 5 

New York Mets. who won 6-5 at Colorado. 
David Veres· wild pitchThe Padrns. who beat the allowed Mike Piazza to scorn 

Bravos for tho NL pennant last 
from third with the go-aheady1!ar, worn 1iliminatnd from con­

run in the ninth inning. and the tPnt.ion on Sunclav. 

New York Mets beat the 

Williams (1)-121 shut down thn Colorado Rockies 6-5 MondayBrnvrn; in ,iust his second carnnr night for their eighth win in nine start against them. allowing a games.
cloubt1~ and a singln to ltyan 
With tho score 5-all, John 

Kimiko and two singles to GHral<l Olerud doubled off Veres (3-8)Williams in the first eight 
loading off the ninth, Piazza 

iunings. Williams struck out six walked and Hobin Ventura sin­
and wnlkml two. 
gled to right. Larry Walker 

Williams lnft after walking threw out pinch-runner Melvin Keith L11ckhart and giving up a Mora at the plate. but Piazza si11glo to Williams to st.art the scored on Lim wild pitch with ni11Lh. Trevor I loffmun got thrne 0110 out and Darryl Hamilton outs for his 37th save in 40 batting.
cham'.Ps. 
Hickey Ilendcrson hit a two-


ROME PROGRAM 
Informational Meeting 
Wednesday Septernber 15 
7:00 p.m. Carroll Auditorium 
Madeleva Hall Saint Mary's College 

Study in Rome for one semester or for the year. 

run homer for the Mets, who began the day two games behind first-place Atlanta in the NL East. New York remained 2 ltl games ahead of Cincinnati in lhc wild-card race. 
Turk Wendell (4-4) allowed one bit in two scoreless innings, and Armando Henitez got three outs for his 20th save in 25 chances. 
Hick Reed. making his second start since coming off the dis­abled list Sept. 4, gave up four runs and nine hits in six innings. 
Walker went 4-for-5 with his 36th home run, raising his NL­leading batting average to .373. Todd Helton was 3-for-4 for Colorado. 
John Thomson, 0-3 in his last four starts, gave up five runs and six hits in 6 1-3 innings. 
Piazza hit an HBI single in the first, and Edgardo Alfonzo made it 3-0 with a two-run single in the second. 
Colorado tied it in the fourth on Walker's solo homer. .Jeff Barry's HBI groundout and Ben Pntrick's run-scoring single. 
Petrick had another RBI single in the sixth !or a 4-3 lead, and Henderson hit a two-run. oppo­site-field homer in the seventh. Terry Shumpert homered oIT Pat Mahomes in the bottom half, his third homer in two games. 

Astros 13 Phillies 2 
It only seems like an Astros pitcher gets his 20th win every night. Mike Hampton joined teammate Jose Lima in the 20­win club, and the Houston Astros set a club record by win­ning their 11th straight game, 13-2 over the Philadelphia Phillies on Monday night. 
Hampton (20-3) won his 11th consecutive decision since a June 24 loss to Cincinnati, allow­ing two runs and six hits in seven innings with six strikeouts. 
Lima (20-7) got his 20th win Saturday against the Chicago Cubs. The last time teammates won 20 in the same season was in 1993, when Atlanta's Greg Maddux (20-10) and Tom Glavine (22-6) did it along with San Francisco's John Burkett (22-7) and Bill Swift (21-8). 
Houston. which previously had six 10-game winning streaks, sent the Phillies to their 10th straight loss, their longest skid since an I 1-gamer from June 24-Julv 4, 1997. 
Philadelphia starter Joe Grahe (0-3) Jell after three innings with a blister on his right index fin­ger. He allowed three runs two earned -and two hit,;;. 
Crahe started in place of Curt Schilling, who missed his turn because of discomfort in his right shoulder. 
Kevin Jordan's RBI single put Philadelphia ahead in the first. but Je!T Bagwell singled home a run in the bottom half. 
Sacrifice flins by Carl Everett and Ken Caminiti gave Houston a 3-1 lead in the third. Craig Biggio's 54th double -the most in the majors -drove in anoth­er run in the fourth, Hampton singled in a run in the fifth. The pitcher is hitting .288 (19-for-66) with nine RBIs. 
Houston scored five runs off Steve Schrenk in the seventh with just one hit. Everett hit an RBI grounder, Schrenk walked Caminiti and Glen Barker with the bases loaded, and Ricky Gutierrez hit a two-run single. 
Brewers 4 Cardinals 3 
Rookie Kevin Barker hit a tiebreaking two-run homer in the fifth inning Monday night, leading the Milwaukee Brewers over the St. Louis Cardinals 4-3. 
Mark McGwire strained his left groin and left after 4 1/2 innings. McGwire, second in the major leagues with 55 homers, ground­ed out in the first and walked in the third. St. Louis said he was day to day. 
Craig Paquette homered for the fourth straight game for the Cardinals, who have lost live of six. Paquette, acquired from the New York Mets on July 31 for Shawon Dunston, has 10 homers and 36 RBIs in 36 games with the Cardinals. 
llideo Nomo (12-7) threw 114 pitches in 5 2-3 innings, giving up three runs and four hits. 
He struck out seven and walked six, matching his season high. 
-
and 
· 
" 
,, 
,. 


Making a difference has always been a matter of applying yourself. Here's whJre to apply. 

How far &n, you .-ill1Dt; to go to 11111.lrn a difforence? 
UNIYIRSITY OF NOTRE DAMI 
Visit our booth at the Post Graduate Volunteer Falrl Wednesday, Sept~ber 15 6t00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. Stepan enter 
Anytime 
Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 the price of your the price of your large 1 topping 2 large 1 pizza topping pizzas is the time you call. Is the time you call. 
* Plus tax * Plus tax 

ND store 
271-1177 
f---Iiiiiciissieciai---7 
1 Small 1 Topping 1 I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5 99 I •
L-------=-------.J 
North Village Mall 271-PAPA 

•""i,-•,,~•• ' .,,......._ ,­
PEACE 
CORPS 
The toughest job you'll ever love. 
J. 

Contact us at www.peacecorps.gov or l-800-424-8580. 
page 20 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Runners place fifth 
By DOROTHY CARDER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's cross country team plared fifth overall at its first meet on Friday evening al Aquinas College in Grand Rapids, Mirh. 
"I feel we did really well," senior Bridget Heffernan said. "We now have a feel of how f'ar our team can go this season." 
Junior Geneveive Yavcllo placed first for the team and 34th overall. · 
"I didn't know what to expect because it was our first race, but I was hoping to do well," Yavello said. 
"The next two runners (for our team] were right behind me," she added, "so it was exciting to see our team do so well in only our first meet." 

The next top five finishers for the team were senior Melissa Miller placing 36th overall with junior Katie Hummer two bnhind. Freshman Katie Ward and Megan Tenney placed 40th and 42nd respectively with sophomore Melissa Goss, a team captain, three behind Tenney. 
The top six runners for the Belles plared within 11 places of each other. 
dThey were around one minute and 30 seconds behind each other," coach Dave Barstis said. 
lie said lhe team did "extremely well overall" and was surprised that two fresh­men placed among the team's top five. 
"These were very positive performances all of the run­ners exhibited," Barstis said. 
He said he expects tho team to place third or fourth in the conference this year. 
SWIMMING 
Australian woman begins 100-mile swim 
Associated Press 
KINGSTON, Jamaica 
After weeks of delays, Australian distance swimmer Susie Maroney waded into the warm Caribbean Sea on Monday and began trying to swim to Cuba, a distance of 100 miles. 
It was the latest long-dis­tance attempt for Maroney, 24, who has swum 122 miles from Mexico to Cuba and across the English Channel. 
As the sun rose on a clear morning, Maroney set out from the north coast resort of Montego Bay and swam to a rescue boat and shark cage, 200 yards offshore. She will swim inside the cage 
during the 30-to-40-hour swim. 
'Tm really nervous with the rough seas and all, but I just want to begin," she said. "It's easier mentally once I've started." 
Her mother, brother and boyfriend joined crew mem­bers aboard the rescue boat, which pulled the shark cage, a donation from Cuban President Fidel Castro. 
Her other achievements include the fastest return crossing of the English Channel, from Britain to France and back: 17 hours 13 minutes in 1991. In 1997, she became the first person to make the 104-mile Cuba­to-Florida swim. 
The Observer . SPORTS 
Tuesday, September 14, 1999 


Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Cleveland State has only four returning lettermen in their lineup. 
This season, the trio of for­ward Ryan Sgro and midfield­ers Adam Campellone and Kareem Reynolds have stepped up to lead the Viking offense. 
The three have combined for four of the five goals Cleveland State has scored in its four contests. Both Sgro and Reynolds have picked up an assist. Sgro, who scored only three goals during the Vikings' 1998 campaign, promises to be a greater threat on offense this year, as he has already tallied two goals in four games. 

"We need to get our confi­dence back," said Ratcliffe. "Hopefully a win against Cleveland State will give us that confidence before our two Big East games this weekend." 
One of Cleveland State's two victories came at the expense of Western Michigan, which handed the Irish their only loss this season. 
Western Michigan beat Notre Dame in a 1-0 overtime decision at Alumni field. The Irish dominated the contest offensively, but could not put 
KOSOVO: READINGS & REFLECTIONS 
by 

Christopher Merrill College of the Holy Cross Author of Only the Nails Remain 
and 

John Matthias University of Notre Dame Translator of The Battle of Kosovo 
(from tbe Serbian) 
Wednesday, September 15 
4:30-6:30pm 
Center for Continuing Education Auditoriuni. 
Sponso,-ed by the . Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
the ball past goalkeeper Eric Pogue. 
The Vikings had an easier time against Pogue and the rest of the Western Michigan squad, disposing of them 3-1 at Western Michigan in both teams' season-openers. 
The Vikings tallied their only other victory against the University of Wisconsin at Green Bay. The teams' two losses came against Michigan State and Indiana University/Purdue University­Indianapolis, a squad which the Irish will face later this season. 
This is the first meeting between Notre Dame and Cleveland State. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
"The Best of Both Worlds" 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 
Thursday, September 16, 1999 
4:45 PM 102 DeBartolo 
With Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs 
Tuesday, October 12, 1999 102 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
With Prof. KevinWhelan, Director Keough-Notre Dame Centre, Dublin 
Monday, November 8, 1999 102 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
With Katie Schott, Administrator Keough-Notre Dame Centre, Dublin 
Applications Available 

... 
Application Deadline: December 1 
For Fall 2000 -Spring 2001 AY 2000-2001 


1

Tut:sday, Septem:~be;r;_l;_4~,~I9~9~9===========================T,='h=e=O=b=se:::rv=e=r=.=S=P=O=R=T=S==========================================p=a=ge===2 
-7 
.. I 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Lofton knocks in three to dominate Red Sox 
Associated I'rcss 
CI.EVEIAND 

Aft!~r raising their fifth straight /\I. Cnntral championship ba11­1wr, t!w Clnvn!and Indians showl'd why tlwy've been so 
dominaut. 
K 11 n n y 1.of'ton rPl.urncd from a strain1)d right ham­string to homer for 


tlrn  first  Lofton  
Linw  since•  
.l1111e  11,  

driving in thrnn runs to lnad the Indians ovnr 11H• Boston ltnd Sox I 1-7 l\.lomlay night. 
Tim Hnd Sox. who had won 10 of I 2, rnmainnd :1 1/2 games lwhind tlw Yankn11s in the AL Jo:ast. Bt1ston's ltmd ov1•r Oakland in Urn wild-card raco slippc~d to twt1 ~anwi;, 
C11•vnland, which clinclrnd tlrn division titlt\ la:;l wcc1k. could play Boston in ttw playoffs for tlw third linw in livP yrmrs. The Indians hnve Jost 13 of 18 against t!w lkd Sox. 
I.ol'lo11, who had missed nine gamns. was 3-f'or-4, and Hichin Sexson and Ilaro!d Baines each hit thrnn-nm homers. 
Charles Nagy (If>.lJI allownd fiv1~ runs and night hits in 5 2/3 innings. improving to 7-1 against l!oslon since i\ug. 1:l, l<J<J2. Paul Shuey pit.dwc! two innings for his sixth savP. 
s,~xso11's lw1111ir off Tim Wakl'fir-ld (5-101 in a five-run fourth was his :rnth of the sna­sori. Baines hit his 25th in the 1·ighth off llrycP l;lnri1!. 
Lofton Ind off tlrn first inning with his seventh honwr. Ilti has lfi lm1doff horrwrs in his earner, 
Apply on· the web and get up to •~!!I of FREE calling time: 
• •~ of FREE calling time just for applying. 
• Apply on the internet and get an additional 
•,~ of FREE calling time when you make your first purchase. 
(•~ if you apply 
by phone.) 
• 
Get a ~% rebate towards calling on all purchases.1 

• 
No annual fee. 

• 
No credit history required. 


I!\I!!t!!1.Y -,.e I!!~YI www.gtecard.com 
or 
1-888-591-7900 

•e.mn ,,.... .,,,,, autom«tloall, tM Cf'fldtwd to ...OTB CelJJttg C.nl at:OOIII\I. 'When Y°" OIU1'Y a tJt.l•nc! from ,nonth to month. C ¦I O\H' tlilll-f,.. numtNr DI' whit our web •lhl tor cOIIIPMI• dt ¦ ctoa1.1,. of ten1ta and aondltlHMla. 
including live this year. 
Sexson hit a run-scoring, dou­bln-play grounder later in the inning, and Lofton hit an RRI double in the second. 
Trot Nixon's HBI single pulled Boston to 3-1 in the third, and Cloveland blew it open with a f"ive-run fourth that included Soxson·s homer and HBI singles by Lofton and David .Justice. 
Nixnn led off Boston's four-run sixth with his 12th homer. Troy O'Leary had a two-out HBI dou­ble and Mike Stanley followed with a lwo·run single to make it 8-;i, 
Varitek doublnd homn a run in llrn ninth off Paul Shuey and Nixon hit an HBI grounder. 
Athletics 8 Dtwil Hays 3 
Jason Giambi. Handy Velarde and Olmedo Saenz lrnmernd as thP Oakland Athletics beat the Tampa Bay Devils Hays 8-3 Mllnday night. for their fifth straight win. 
Miguel Tejada had a two-run singh\ during a live-run, third inning for Oakland. which has won 13 or its last 18 road games. The Athletics, who entered the day 5 1/2 games back of Texas in the AL West, moved within two games or Boston for the wild card. 
Kevin Appier (15-12) allowed three runs and seven hits in eight innings, improving to 6-3 sinrn Oakland acquired him from Kansas City on July 31. lie struck out seven and retirnd his final 14 batteri; after a two-out walk in the fourth. 
John Flaherty had a two-run single in the third inning for Tampa Bay, which has lost four straight overall and seven in a row against Oakland. 
Oakland took a 2-0 lead in the first inning for tho third consecu­tive game on Velarde's two-run homer off Hobby Witt (7-13). 
Giambi, who has a career-best 111 HBls, hit his 31st homer leading olT the lhird, his third of the four-game series. Giambi is 29-for-71 (.408) with six homers and 23 RBIs against Tampa Bay in his career and has six homers and 12 RBIs in his past eight games overall. 
Giambi also doubled in the eighth inning, striking an over­hanging catwalk 150 foet above the field. Giambi homered oil' a different catwalk -approxi­matl~lv 60 feet high -on Sunday. He has two of the five fair balls hilting a catwalk this season. 
Saenz hit a solo shot in the fourth, putting the Athletics ahead 8-2. 
Wilt lost his fillh straight deci­sion. allowing six runs, six hits and four walks in 2 2-3 innings. 
Orioles 5 Mariners 4 
Cal llipken homered and drove in three runs. and ILi. Surhoff scored the winning run in the 10th inning on a throwing error by Jose Mesa as the Baltimore Orioles completed their first four-game sweep of the Seattle Mariners with a 5-4 victory Monday night. 
Ripken hit a two-run homer in the second inning and a sacrifice fly in the sixth. I le went 1-for-2 with two walks and needs 18 hits over his final 18 games to reach 3,000 career hits this sea­son. 
Baltimore has won seven straight. matching its season high. 
The Orioles are 32-25 since the i\11-Star break but 68-76 overall. SurhofT led off the 10th with a single off Mesa (2-6). 
Surhoff advanced on a llyball by Albert Belle and Hipken was walked intentionally. Jeff Conine hit a comebacker to Mesa. who threw the ball into center trying for a double play. 
Bookie B.J. Hyan (1-0) earned his first major league win by working 1 1-3 hitless innings, striking out three. 
The Mariners trailed 4-2 in the ninth before Huss Davis singled and David Bell hit a one-out homer off Mike Timlin, who suf­fered his first blown save in 13 chances since July l. 
Davis had three hits, including his career-high 21st home run, and Edgar Martinez went 3-lbr­3 for the Mariners, who have lost seven of nine. Ken Griffey Jr. went 2-for-14 in the series with no RBIs. 
Orioles starter Sidney Ponson allowed two runs in 6 1-3 innings, but was deprived of the win when Bell homered in the ninth. Ponson, 0-4 in his last six starts, was pitching on seven days rest for the first timB this season. 
Seattle went up 1-0 in the ser.­ond when Martinez doubled and scored on a two-out single by Dan Wilson. Baltimore took the lead in the bottom half when Belle walked and Ripken lined a 2-1 pitch into the left-field seats, his 17th homer of the season and 401st of his career. 
Ripken hit a bases-loaded fly in the bottom of the sixth. Davis answered with a solo shot in the seventh, but Charles Johnson doubled in a run in the Orioles' half to chase Seattle starter Gil Meche. 
Blue Jays 2 Yankees 1 
David Wells pitched a four-hit­ter to beat his former team for the first time in four starts this season, as the Toronto Blue Jays beat New York 2-1 Monday night, handing the Yankees their fourth straight loss. 
The Yankees, coming off a three-game sweep by Boston, remained 3 1/2 games ahead of the Red Sox, who lost to Cleveland 11-7. New York was held to one run for the third time in four games. 
Vernon Wells hit his first career homer for the Blue Jnys, who entered the day 6 1/2 games behind Boston in the AL wild card race. 
Wells {14-10) took a one-hitter into the eighth before Jorge Posada hit a one-out double off the wall in left-center. With two outs, Chad Curtis hit an HBI sin­gle. 
Wells, acquired in February in the Roger Clemens deal, was 0-3 with a 5.49 EHA against the Yankees this season before throwing his sixth complete game this season and the 35th of his career. 

Discover Financial Services, Inc. a business unit of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., operates all Discover Brands with more than 46 million carclmembers and the . Discover"/Novus Network•. The network is the largest independent credit carcl network in the United States with more 1han 3 million merchant and cash access locations. We are currently seeking individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL • CICS • VSAM • DB/2 • .ICL C ¦ C++ ¦ .JAVA • ORACLE • UNIX ASSEMBLER • WINDOWS 95/NT • OOP PU1 • DATA WAREHOUSING • 05'2 
Please Join us at the: D\SCeVEt\ 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE NAME bOll n11• 2010 lilJI 
J t Mtllll
INDUSTRY DAY 
FITZPATRICI< HALL
. ~~j
Wednesday, September 22nd 
,r,,,, ' 
t:t~~-Ul';li lvJr'r Art! 
If fil\}.
I.. f,--­
10:00am-4:00pm 
~ 
We offer a wide array of workplace amenities including excellent ......_ salaries and benefits, 401 K, prom shar,ng, tuition reimbursemenl, fitness center and a casual dress e1111ironment. If unab,e to attend, please send your scanable resume to: 
Discover Financial Services, Inc. Human Riesources, IT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road • Riverwoods, IL 600I 5 Fax: (8471 405-1388 
Visit our Web Site at: 
www.novusnet.com 
tOE MIF/DN
1•11 

MLS 
Soccer seeks more fans 
Associated Press 
OXBOHO, Mass. 

The gleaming new sterling 
silvor trophy goes to the MLS 
champion. 
The new commissioner 
spoke hopefully of the league's 
future. 
There's nothing new, though, about its problems ­a shortage of fan interest, fre­quent player movements that hurt fan loyalties and shootouts that end otherwise competitive games. 
"We've got a lot of work to do," Don Garber, who became commissioner i\ug. 4, said Monday when the re-designed Alan I. Rothenberg Championship Trophy, nairn~d for the league's founder, was unveiled. 
The MLS, in its fourth sea­son, has franchises in 12 cities but average attendance hasn't grown much. It's up to 14,491 so far this season from 14,312 last year. But it was 17,406 in the league's first year. 
Teams in two of th<l leaf,'lle's largest markets, the Now England Revolution and New York-New Jersey MetroStars, are among the worst in the standings. 
"A big problem and some­thing I think we need to address," Garber said. 
He became commissioner after spending 15 years as a senior marketing and manage­ment executive with the NFL, the last three as managing director for NFL International. 
I-le succeeded Doug Logan, who said he was forced to resign after serving as the MLS' only commissioner since it began play in 1996. 
"We had a honeymoon in the early inception," Garber said. "Some of the interest has set­tled down in the last couple of years and we're in the process of figuring out how w11 can relaunch this league in ways that deliver for fans what they're looking for." 
Soccer interest in the United " States increased during the summer when the Americans won the Women's World Cup in their home country. Yet the MLS didn't capitalize on that. 
"There's so much soccer that exists in this country," Garber said. "We're all in there trying to get our piece of' lhl' pie. The challenge is to figure out how. ultimately, wn can connect all these things. 
"There's no sense of panic," he added. "It nends to gl\l to a different level and thorn's a lot of different kind of' thinking that needs to be put in place." 
That might includo roconsid­ering the shootout. ;\nd what about players changing teams so often'? 
"Player movernnnt is not a good thing in any sport," he said. "We need to figure out a better way to make it work." 
Despite all that movement, 
D.C. Unilrid has dominated the league, winning two of' the three championships and hav­ing the best rer.ord this season. 
MLS Cup '99, the title game, 
is scheduled for Nov. 21 in 
Poxboro Stadium, site of the .. 
first championship game in 1996, won by D.C. United over the Los Angeles Galaxy 3-2. 
---~~~-----~·----~------------------------~---------------------­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 14, 1999 
.. 
NFL
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Frias hits 
Couch may take ball in pool I over at quarterback 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
Hanley Frias hit his first home run of the season and Rrubiel Durazo hit a three-run shot into tho Bank One Ballpark swimming pool Monday night as the Arizona Diamondbacks beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 5-1. 
The victory, Arizona's eighth in nine games, reduced the Diamondbacks' magic number for clinching the NL West title to 11. Any combination of 11 Arizona victories or San Francisco losses will make the Diamondbacks the first second­year team to make the playoffs. 
Arizona's 87th victory also made the Diamondbacks the most successful second-year franchise. The 1962 Los Angeles Angels won 86 games. 
Omar Daal (15-81 scattered nine hits before leaving with runuers at first and third and one out in the eighth. Reliever Bobby Chouinard got Kevin Young to hit into an inning­ending double play. Arizona pitchers have allowed two runs in the last four games. 
Arizona scored an unearned run in the first when Tony Womack walked, stole second and advanced to third on catch­er Keith Osik's errant throw that skipped into center field. Womack scored when Luis Gonzalez singled off the glove of pitcher Jason Schmidt (12­101. 
Young tied it 1-1 in the third with a two-out home run. his 22nd homer of the season. 
frias' leadofT homer, which barelv cleared the fence in front "or the 376-foot sign in right field. put the Diamondbacks up 2-1 in the fourth. It was Frias' second career homer. 
In the seventh, Durazo lofted the 1-1 pitch to a splash land­ing beyond the fence in right­center field. Durazo has 10 homers since being called up on July 25. 
Red 7 Marlins 4 
Mike Cameron and Greg Vaughn hit solo home runs as the Cincinnati Heds overcame a two-run deficit to win their sev­enth straight, 7-4 Monday over the Florida Marlins for a four­game sweep. 
Cincinnati, which has 31 homers in 11 games, began the day three games behind divi­sion-leading Houston in the NL Central and 2 1/2 games back of New York in the wild-card race. 
Steve Parris (9-2) gave up four runs and eight hits in six innings. Danny Graves pitched the ninth for his 23rd save in 30 chances. 
Dernk Lee went 4-t'or-4 with a two-run homer to raise his average 19 points to .202. 
With Florida ahead 4-2 in the sixth, Vaughn hit his 39th homer and Eddie Taubensee singled. The go-ahead run scored when Julio Ramirez bobhl1>.d the ball for an error. 
Stynes hit a two-run single in 
the seventh oiT Heid Cornelius. 
Cameron's first-inning homer and Parris· second-inning RBI single gave Cincinnati a 2-0 lead. Mark Kotsay hit an RBI double in the fourth, and the Marlins went ahead in the sixth on Kevin Orie's run-scoring groundout and Lee's homer. 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio 
The Cleveland Browns had this wonderful gamfl plan in place for educating Tim Couch. 
They wanted to bring him along slowly, grooming the young quarterback as Ty Delmer's undersLudy until Couch was ready to take over as Clfweland's starter. 
And then the Pittsburgh Steelers came to town and knocked the Browns into next year. 
ClevP,land's humbling and humiliating 4:-.l-O loss to Pittsburgh on national TV in their Jong-awaited NFL return was apparently ennugh tn make the expan­sion Browns change their minds. 
''I'm not disappointed, but I guess J'm realistic enough to know we've got to make some changes," Browns coach Chris Palmer said Monday. "Something wasn't in sync. When you get beat 43-0. You're looking for answers," 
Palmer said there will be changes on both sides of the ball for Sunday's game at Tennessee, and among the switches he's considering is replacing Detmer with Couch, who faced with a blitz, threw an interception with his first pro pass Sunday night. 
It looked pretty clear Monday that Palmer's mind may already be made up. 
Before the Browns br,gan stretching Monday afternoon. Palmer and Detmer spoke privately for about five min­utes. Not long after. Palmer. his head bowed and hands behind his back, walked by himself' up an exercise hill alongside the Browns' train­ing fieldhouse. 
Later, Couch was behind center with the Browns' first­team offense as Detmer donned a red jersey to play cornerback with scout-team defense. 
After arriving early for work Monday morning, Palmer told Dwight Clark, the Browns director of football operations, that he was con­sidering making a change at quarterback. 
Clark said the plan all along with Couch was to re-evalu­ate the situation every three weeks during the season. 
"During our meeting this morning, he said he might accelerate the plan," Clark said. "I was a little surprised. We're a team that's in transi­Lion. We're growing and try­ing to till holes. We're open for anything right now." 
Couch was taken by the Browns with the No. 1 overall pick in April's NFL draft. Cleveland signed him to a seven-year, $59.4 million contract, which included a $12 million signing bonus. 
The former Kentucky stand­out played well in his exhibi­tion debut against the l)a\las Cowboys in the Hall of Fame game, going 11-for-17 for t:-17 yards and rallying the Browns to a win. 
He started Cleveland's home exhibition opener against Minnesota, and looked unsteady and con­fused. And despite getting the opportunity to win Detmer's job, he couldn't. 
However, the Browns' ane­mic offensive showing with Detmer at the controls may have hastened Couch's ascen­sion. Detmer was 6-for-13 for 52 yards and threw a costly interception when the Browns actually had a little momen­tum earlv on. 
Among the Browns' offen­sive lowlights: 
• 
Cleveland managed just two first downs -Pittsburgh had 32 --and got one on its first offensive play. 

• 
They had only 40 total yards, nine rushing. 

• 
And. almost unbelievably, they had the ball for just 


12:11 to Pittsburgh's 47:20. 
Palmer figures it can't get any worse. and that seems to be why he's considering mak­ing Couch the starter. He doesn't think making a switch this early sends any kind of signal to the Browns or any­one else that the team is giv­ing up on the season. 
"I hope it's not interpreted as we're putting up a white flag," he said. "It's just a situ­ation where we're trying to get better. Somewhere along the line Tim Couch has got to play, whether it's tomorrow or next year, he has to play." 
Cleveland awoke in shock and a bit hung over following Sunday night's pummeling by Pittsburgh. 
Celebrate the fall season with a change in dining. 
---------------~~ 
CLUB SPORTS 

Field hockey wins 8-0 
Special to The Observer 

• 
The Field Hockey club overwhelmed Wheaton College 8 -0 on Stepan Field Saturday. Led by J.H. Doria (three goals) and Katie Breitenbach (two goals), the team dominated action from the opening face­off. Stephanie Frigon. Mike Lazinski. and Ellen Quinn completed the scoring for the Irish. 

• 
Eagle Lake was the site of the Irish Invitational Regatta as the Sailing Club placed sev­en th among thirteen teams. First place honors were accorded to Georgetown. 

• 
A very young and inexpe­rienced Ultimate Frisbee Club traveled to Chicago's 6th Annual Tune-up, the largest tournament in the nation with 84 teams meeting on the Naperville Polo Grounds. The club's decision to play new members extensively to gain experience for the season resulted in some disappointing scores, but portends well for the future. The Irish opened with close losses to veteran teams from Illinois, 14-12, and Dayton 13-8. The Irish then dropped a 13-6 game to Carleton, ranked nationally in the top five, before closing out 


the weekend with a thrilling 13-12 victory over Iowa. The Ultimate's women team fared well. with a win over rival Illinois highlighting their com­petition. 
• 
The Irish Cycling Club enjoyed a successful trip to Wisconson -Whitewater, com­peting in both A and B events. Jesse Hensley claimed first in the Men's B dual slalom race, while Sean Flynn placed 10th in the A dual slaloms. Sean then closed with a rush to take second in the B cross country race, with teammat11 Pat Cloud caught in the middle of the pack. 

• 
Led by Irish MVP Matt McNicholas' 13 goals. The Water Polo Club splashed to a 5th place finish at Tennessee's Hillbilly Classic, featuring 12 of the best clubs in the country. The Irish beat James Madison in the opening round, then dropped a heartbreakcr to Purdue, 4-3, with less than thirty seconds remaining. The team bounced back to defeat Virginia Tech 13-0, with goalie Brendan Doherty posting his first shutout in only his third start. The Irish defeated North Carolina State, 11-1, to finish 3-1. Michigan captured the event, followed by Purdue. 



Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
match-high 50 assists. 

On the defensive side, the Irish limited Kentucky to a .153 hitting percentage and out­blocked the Wildcats 14-7. Leffers matchcd her career­high in a three-game match with nine blocks. 
Rut the Irish were not as for­tunate Sunday, dropping the first three games to Clemson, 15-13, 15-3 and 15-6. 
The victory clinched first place in the Big Orange Bash for the Tigers. 
The Irish out-hit the Tigers in the first game .282 to .268, but were unable to pull out the win in the end. 
"We had a good scouting report for Clemson and played them really well in game one," Boylan said. 
The momentum from game one carried over for the Tigers, as they were able to win the next two games rather easily. 
"We did not play very well against either team," said Boylan. "We were behind all weekend and our passing was off. Kristy Kreher played extremely well and that helped us get the win against Kentucky." 
Boylan and Kreher both were named to the All-Tournament team. a first for Kreher. Boylan was named to last weekend's all-tournament team. 
The Irish play next at 7 p.m., Saturday, at home against Miami (Ohio). 

MEETING: 
Notre Dame Chapter Association for Computing Machinery 
Tuesday September 14 
6:00 pm 205 Cushing 

. 

ACM-largest professional society for computer scientists, software engineers, programmers, computer engineers, web page designers, internet aficianados. 
Over 90,000 members Career and Education Opportunities 
Bring a friend 
Free Pizza!! 
Tw.:sday, September 14, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLDFOURTH AND INCHES 
_r. G~l-J'. C,EL 1ivc i"flAT Qv\c;.'f:,.f :JOE! WIHIT'S "X --n1OV<)\-iT 11!H /'\"Ytli: )Jo ONE HAS. GoTTi::t.i '(ovR \-\OPIE. ?ll~I:: 
'fov~ Mor,.. '<JOVLI) L•lli 

so! chec.lc, the frun~,
A D,\TE '(f;T NVl'\BER~ •O· ·C,O vJliH f\l\'e 
••• 
and like I+hought­
ALl<16Hi, 
t-to ClROC.tf<IE:S. So
PU'T 7'\\E. f'"ONE D~>I/ 

'" ..I • .JO
I 90 Access ~­

Fox TROT (DILBERT HAS Movrn ro THE v1EwP01Nr PAGEs,J 
ABR~CADASRA.' I CoMMANO YoV 
To FLOAT! 
\ 
0 
BILL AMEND 
UPS1DE· ...AND DoWN MoRE MAGIC IS ENJo"I'• CERTAINLY A8l.E. 
EASIER. 
' 
·s~noJ.. 
Sl SIH.J..

\ -­
3,".31138 l 

The thrill-a-minute life of campus gate securitv. 
beam 1@nd.edu 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Yemeni port 32 Second
1 Number on a addendum to abaseball card letter: Abbr. 
5 Beginning with 35 Most people frost born in August 
10 like most 
36 Spoke wildly 

nursery rhymes: Abbr. 38Codger 
39 Pins or penny preceder 14 Twosome 

15 To have, in Paris 
40F1lletof~ 

16 Timber wolf 41 Beta's follower 17 Wheel rotator 42 Manicurist's18 Butcher's ship? 
ship? 20 Squander 
45 Summer park 22 "To your event health!." e.g 
49 Boaters pull 23 A fisherman may them spin one 
so Informed (of) 24 Museum V.1.P. 
51 Storm 26 Postal worker's protectors ship? 
55 Highlighter's 30 Gulf Coast bird ship? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

58 Pass over 59 Espies 60 Become 
accustomed (to) 61 Egypt's main 
water supply 62 Misses the mark 63 Tower of -­64 Grades 1-6: Abbr. 
DOWN 
1 Meat in a can 2 Curbside call 3 Is under the 
weather 4 Railroad bridges sActress 
Anderson of "Baywatch" & Closer to 50-50 7 Turnpike 8 Prestigious sch. near Boston 9 Rainbow 1oChoir voices 11 Skipping, as an event 
supplement champion Zatopek 
12 Portly and then 46 Tenant's 
29 Get tangled counterpart 53 Tick off 
some 54 Flower holder 
13 Sur's opposite, 32 Magnificence 47 Consumerist 56 Conservative's
in Mexico 33 Fleshy fruit Ralph toe: Abbr.
19 Sometimes 34 Polaris, e.g. 48 Green garnish 57 __ heartbeat
illegal auto maneuver 36 Crowd sound 51 Rebuff (instantly) 
21 Treaty 37 Came down 
24 Beach washer 38 Crowning event 25 Critic Rex 
40 Show scorn 26 Sandwich that's 
41 Braced
been heated 43 Stick (to) 
27 "A Death in the Family" author 44 Victory emblem 


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Joe Pl'nny, Faith ford, Mary Frances Crosby, S,1m Nt•ill · 
Happy Birthday: You will be givl'n the oppnrtunity to receive' favors in order to reach your expecta­tions. Your reluctance to accept help will be your downfall. Giving in to greatl'r forces and learn111g to go with the flow will lead to .i much morl' sat­isfying hfo. Your numbers, 1-1, 20, 28, 32, 41,, 49 
ARil:S (March 21-April 19): Yuur biggest problem is that no one can keep up with 1·ou You need an outk't to help ,·ou n°lil'\'C the t,•nsion that builds up inside ii ~·ou ha\'l' too much time on \'Our hands. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You won't get al,mg well win, familv members. Try tu attend meetings with groups that deal with tlw same rnn­cerns tliat you have It's better to keep busy and avoid situutions at ht,ml1 
000 
GhMINI iMay 21-.lune 20): Tr,n'I:\ for pleasure ilnd ynu will meet int£'r­esting and ~nowledgahl,, pe,,plc. Arguments with partners mar J,,vel­op if you ha\'l•n't been compll•tc•lv honest. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): lake• a look at. your residential options. A move or changes to your cxi~ting home arc in ,,rJer. Gd fnends and relatives lo hL~lp you out. Don't com­plain; just be hJppv th.it you have assistanc,•. 00000 
LEO (July 2,'\-Aug, 22): Y,,ur emo­tions will fluctuate. B<" careful Vllll don't give )'<Hlf partner tlw wri,ng impression. D,m't embellish infom1a­tion, or vou'll be faced with havmg to explain 1·,n1T action, 00 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): It';; time to upgrade your livmg quarters. Residential mov('S will be favorable as long as you don't overextend your­self 111 the process. Career changes will lead to a higher income. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Ask for favors. You will receive the informa­
..

tion you require to get your ideas up and running. Partners will contribute 
more than you anticipated. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): D,111·1 let your Jealous nature get ,,ut of hand. Arguments with your partner will lead tn loneliness and separation. KeC'p your thoughts to yoursl'lf for tlw tinw b,•ing. Check out \'Our own motives 000 
SAGl17"AIUUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Krt>p y0ur eyes and cars open. You can pick up valuable information that will aid you in 1,our business deals Ignore friends w 10 like to interfere in \'our pe'rsonal life. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec, 22-Jan. 19): 
D,,n't shy away from secret financial ekalmgs. You may have to ~pend some time checking over the personal papers n( a loved one. Try. to rcas~ure him or her that everything is !me. 0000 
AQUARIUS ()an. 20-Feb. 18): rum ;-our_ stress mto passion. You can please your mate by showing affec­tion and letting little annoyances slip by Pick up books pertaining to pro­iects yuu'rc involved in. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Put 1·,,ur l'fforts into making rn,,ney You n1c1y want to try to pick up a part­­time job New love interests will b,, t'11ticing and social activities gratify­ing. Follow ynur heart 00000 
Birthday Baby: Your presence will be noticed throughout your life. You have plenty tD offer, which will lead you into a position of power .111d leader­ship. Your affinity for people will b1• to )'Our benefit, making it possible for you to help those !es, able. 
l. 
5 Easy Ways to Burn a Few Extra Calories 

1. 
Take the stairs, not the elevator. 

2. 
Park farther away in the parking lot. 3.Start strength training. 


4. 
Do floor exercises while watching tv. 

5. 
Deliver your messages by hand instead of by phone and emaiI. 


M1ALLENl?C' 
...~.~~·~ 
•

• 
Spaces are still available in 

• 
Step I & II, Lo Impact,


•
•

=Aquacise, Flex n'Tone, Hi Intensity, Interval Step and other classes. Classes are open to ND students, staff, faculty and their spouses. For More Info. Contact:RecSports -1-6100 www.nd.edu/-recsport 
.. 


Marino in Miami 
.. 
Quarterback Dan Marino helped the Dolphins score on four straight possessions on their way to a season opener victory over Denver. 
page 18
PORTS 
Marino 

page 24 OBSERVER Tuesday, September 14, 1999 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame prepares for Cleveland State 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame mPn's soc­cer team returns to Alumui Field tonight when it takes on the Cleveland State Vikings in a non-conference match-up. 
The Irish had a strong start to the season, picking up wins in their first two games. but they sutfornd a loss and a tie in two overtime baLtles in their most recent r:ontosts. 
The squad will look to come out strong against the Vikings to put another notch in the win column. 
.. 
"We're taking this game seri­ously." said starting defender Justin Ratcliffe. "We have haven't won the last two games -we had a loss and a tie -so we're looking to get back on a winning streak." 
Cleveland State. with a 2-2-0 record this year, comes off a disappointing 1998 season. The Vikings finished with a 4­15-0 record and in eighth place in the Midwestern Collegiate conference. 
ln a l 949 preseason poll, conference coaches ranked the Vikings to finish this year in sevt>nth place. 
Notre Dame freshman for­wards Rafael Garcia and Erich Rraun and midfielder Al.an Lyskawa pnn ide an offensive spark. with each scoring one of three Irish goals this SC'ason. 
Senior fonvard Andrew Aris also has been a pivotal player on the offensive attack, with two assists. 
Patient play in the backfield has opened up many scoring opportunities for the Irish. 
"Our attack is a little inexpe­rienced -we're still learning how each other plays," said Ratcliffe. "What we're doing best right now is building out of the backfield. Our defense and midfield are playing really well. We just need to get to that level on attack too." 
see MEN'S SOCCER/page 20 


VOLLEYBALL 
Irish split matches 
By MATT OLIVA Sporrs 'IX'ri ter 
The Notre Dame vollevball 

.. team split two matches· this weekend in the Big Orange Bash in Clemson, S.C., for a second-place tournament fin­ish. The Irish (4-2) knocked off Kentucky on Saturday before dropping Sunday's match to 18th-ranked Clemson. "Our fundamentals fell apart," junior Denise Boylan said. "Our passing was not there and we made a lot of unforced errors. We dug our­selves a hole and then could not score enough points to comeback." Saturday, the Irish defeated Kentucky in three games, 15-9, 15-9 and 15-9. Sophomore Kristy Kreher led the lrish with lb kills in the match. Offensively, senior Mary Leffers and juniors Jo Jameyson and Christi Girton all added nine kills, while Boylan added a 

see VOLLEYBALL/page 22 

... 
VOLLEYBALL 

Belles prove tough competitors in tourney 
Saint Joseph on Friday and to 
By KATIE MCVOY 

Ohio Northern University on Spam Writer 
Saturday, Saint Mary's closed 
the tournament with a 3-1 vic­

With a 2-2 record at the Ohio tory over Thomas Moore. Northern Tournament this Leading the team offense weekend, the Saint Mary's vol­were Jayne Ozbolt, Agnes Bill leyball team reached its goal -and Emily Nihill. Ozbolt had 7 to be a real competitor, accord­aces for the tournament and ing to head coach Randa '.'Jihill had 34 kills. Ozbolt and Shields. LeBeau were the foundation for 
"With the outcome, I definite­the defense. LeBeau led the ly think Saint Mary's proved team with 11 blocks. themselves to be competitors," Team morale is high follow­said Shields, "I think they ing its successful weekend. impressed the other coaches. i "This is a very difficult tour­got a lot of good comments nament," said sophomore out­from the competition." side hitter Angie Meyers, who 
"We really made a name for had 44 digs for the weekend. ourselves," said sophomore "This was the best we've ever Jolie LeBcau. done." 
The Belles did just that in The Belles hope to continue their toughest tournament of improving as the season pro­the season, leading off Friday gresses. They play at Lake afternoon by solidly beating Forest Tuesday. Manchester College 3-0. Shields said she hopes the 
"VVhal really wntribuled to tournament's outcome will our success was our serving," keep team spirits high for these said Shields. "It took the other games and for the rest of the team out of its offense. When season. we served well, we won "The positive experience can games." only bring good things," Shields 
Despil.e 3-0 losses to Mount said . 
vs. Michigan vs. Butler Volleyball Saturday, 1 :30 p. m. Wednesday, 7 p.m. vs. Miami (Ohio) 
t~
SPORTS 
Soccer

.. Saturday, 7 p.m. 
-• 
at Kalamazoo College 

ATA ttJ 
vs. Cleveland State Cross Country hosts Volleyball Wednesday, 4 p,m. Tonight, 7 p.m. National Catholic Inv. at Lake Forest, 
GLANCE ~ • ttJ 
Friday, 1:30 p.m. Tonight, 7 p.m. 












