-.-------------_.,_..,_______
0:--_____~----------------------------------w-----------­

America eyes the prize 
Daoid Du.oat led America to a record comeback over the Europeans in this weekend's Ryder Cup tournament. 
page 14 


THE 
Where the boys are 
Scene examines the mysteries ofthe Y chromosome from a female 
perspective. 
page 10 



A DAY AT THE RACES 


MARY CALASH/The Observer 

Student body president Micah Murphy (left) presides over the festivities at Saturday's Keough Hall Chariot Races. The com­bined team from Keenan and Cavanaugh Halls won the event. Seven Keough sections and one team from Morrissey compet­ed as well. 
Lecture features art museum accessibility 
By LINDSAY FRANK 
News Wrirt'r 
;\rt mus1rnms are evolving to lrncome morn usi!r-friund­ly, said Allan Wallach, profos­sor of Art IIislory and Am1>.rican Studies at the College of William and Mary, in a lecture Friday. 
Wallach and stweral col­leagues discussed artistic censorship and tlrn evolution or art museums at the "Critique of the Museum in Contemporary Art" symp<>­sium. 
llti said that Urn imagu or tho museum has cha11god drastically within the last century from an elitist orga­nization to onn more open to tlw middle class and its rrneds. 
Wallach del'ined museum history in two parts. I le called the first stagH "robbPr-baron irnriod" when tlrn m usou m inclinnd men of the uppcr­coincidc~d with the rapid class. expansion ot' higher educa­
"!At this time m usoums tion and standard art history wernl accessible only to those classes," Im said. who identified with the Now, Wallach pointed out, upperdass li!"estyle whether anyone can visit a museum fiction or not," he said. without possessing a vast 
Tho second phase, 
"It is a complicated kind 
coined the 
of circle that censorship
"blockbustBr p (Hi O d," sets around the ohects began in llrn 
it's trying to suppress."
1960s when corporations began lo Richard Meyer 
rl'placo sin­assistant professor of modem gle l'amilies 
and contemporary art 
as patrons of' museums. "Corporate 
knowledge of the works due to the h u g e amounts of information available to visitors in the form or pamphlets, guided tours and multi­media pre­sentations 
Wallach felt that the museum would continue lo become more and more user-friendly. 
"The American art museum will continue to expand their appeal to the middle class," he said. 
Robert H.aywoood, sympo­sium organizer and assistant professor of art history, gave a critique of art critic Sister Wendy Beckett and her approach toward modern art. Haywood pointed out that while the "spiritual nourish­ment" Beckett found in art such as that of Marc Rothko was important, her focus on art reflecting a Catholic stance excluded or trivialized the works of homosexual and feminist artists and their roles in defining modern art. 
'There is too much content [in these worksj that could motivate the viewer to politi­cal action or ecstasy as opposed to spirituality," he said. 

¦ 
Monday 

SEPTEMBER 27, 
1999 
MULTICULTURAL 
University dedicates 

new center 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
News Writer 
Friday marked the official opening of the new lntercultural Center on Lim second floor of LaFortune. 
Due to the 
combined efforts or the Office of Multicultural. Student Affairs (OMSAl and the Office of Intrnational 


s t u cl e n t Fitzgibbon Affairs, the Center will "provide a safe environment for all students from the time he or she arrives on campus till the time he or she leaves," OMSA director Iris Outlaw said. "This intercultural center is in the heart of the world. This center ... knows no national borders," said Maureen Fitzgibbon, director of International Student Affairs. The opening ceremony included a blessing and prayer service with Father Mark Poorman. Among the many attendants at the ceremony were multi­cultural alumni who returned to campus for the weekend. "Our minority alumni boards are here this weekend," said Mirella Riley, staff advisor to La Alianza. Patricia Geiger and Stephen Tsuchiyama, both Asian alum­ni from th.e Class of 1983, returned to campus and said they surprised by the growth of minority populations and pleased about the new center. Geiger recalled "seven or eight" Asians on campus when she was a student. "The studrrnt population has changd quite a bit, but it is much more diversified," said Tsuchiyama. "Isn't this llntercultural Center] wonderful'? It has· really brought us up to a major university. I wish we had ttys," said Geiger. The 24-hour space was made possible with funds from Student Affairs, contributions Geiger said "show that the Univerity is taking us serious­ly." The center will host cultural awareness services, educa­tional programs and lecture series. 
funding and the emergence of the. blockbuster period go hand and hand," he said. 
Museum's audiences began to chauge as well and wnre composed mainly of students and teachers during this tinrn. 
as a result of corporate influ­ences. 
"Visitors are nu different than corporate clients in need of' specialists," he said. 
Likening the atmosphere of current museums to shopping malls, Disneyland and 

catnrt!d solely to artistically "The blockbuslnr phasn Colonial Williamsburg, 
see MUSEUM/page 4 







------------------------....,..-~-----~--~-~--------------------,--, 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, September 27, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Free People Read Freely 
What do "Catcher in the Rye," ''The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn," "A Wrinkle in Time," "I Know VVhy tl1e Caged Bird Sings," "Lord ofilie Flies," ''Slaughterhouse Five," "One Hundred Years ofSolitude" and "Little Red Riding Hood" have in common'? 
They're all among the United States' 50 must-fre­quently banned books ofthe 1990s. 
Welcome to Banned Books Week 1999 -"Free People Read Freely." Sponsored by a wide variety ofgroups ­including ilie American Librarv Association. the American Booksellers A'isociatiou and the American Society of Journalists and Authors -Banned Book Week runs Sept. 25 through Oct. 2 and celebrates our right as Americans to read 'hithout censorship. 
It may seem silly in thls day and age to fight book bans. After all, nobody's burning books in the slreet. The Comstock Laws -which prohibit "obscene materials" in the U.S. mail and effective­ly banned such books as "The Canterbury Tales" and Boccaccio's "Decarneron" -are now unen­forced, although they remain, for the most part. on the books. Such Internet merchants as ama­zon.com and bn.com make it possible to acquire almost any book imaginable. 
Besides, those who attempt to ban books usually have the best of intentions -they want to protect others (usually children) from infonnation, lan­guage or ideas they consider inappropriate. 
But as John Stuart Mill. a far more-eloquent spokesman than I, said in "On Llbcrty": "Ifall mankind mun.is oue, were of one opinion, and only one person were of the contrary opinion, mankind would be no more justified in silencing that one person, than he, ifhe had the power, would be justified in silencing mankind .... If the opinion [of' the one man] is right, they are deprived ofthe opportunity of exchanging error for truth:' if wrong, they lose, what is almost as great a benefit, tl1e clearer perception and livelier in1pression of truth, produced by its collision with error." 
Censorship is the tool of the weak. the cowardly and the afraid. Those who hold the truth should have no fear ofseeing it challenged. Censorship does not protect a community but indeed makes it more vulnerable, unable to defend its beliefs, unwilling to expose itself to foreign ideas. Such a community becomes far more bigoted through its own actions than it ever could by reading ilie "n­word" in "Huck Finn." 
We do ourselves and our children no service by denying access to ideas we dislike. Refusing to allow young adults to read "I Know Why tl1e Caged Bird Sings" because it features descriptions of the author's sexual abuse as a child V1ill not make sexual abuse go away. It 'hill merely rob our teenagers oftools and viewpoin.ls they could use to face sexual abuse and keep them from entering a mature discussion in the home or school. 
"Leave ofGrass" was considered obscene. "Little Red Riding Hood" involves a minor transporting alcohol (this is the true reason it was banned in some California school districts in 1989). "Of Mice and Men" has offensive language. The Declaration oflndependence was treason_ Yet can we imagine our cultural landscape without these works? Should they be censored merely because some find them offensive? Banned because some dis­agree'? Kept out ofour hands because some find them immoral'? 
Free people read freely_ 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Finn Pressly  Amanda Greco  
Maureen Smithe  Mike Vanegas  
Erin Picou~  Graphics  
Sports  Scott Hardy  
Bill Hart  Production  
Viewpoint  MarkDeboy  
Colleen Gaughen  Lab Tech  
John Daily  

The Obs<rv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during ex.am and vacation periods. Th~ Observer is a member of the: Associated Press. AH reprod.ucrion righrs arc: reserved.. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME  
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Singin' in the Rain;  . El Norte, Selena, and Mi  . Concert: "Cavatina Duo,"  . Lecture: "Competing in  
Anncnberg Auditorium,  Familia: Intercultural  Hesburgh Center  a Digital Economy,"  
7 p.m.  Center, 7 p.m. -11:45 p.m.  Auditorium, 4:15 p.m.  Jordan Auditorium,  
. Symposium: "Catholic  . Concert: "1999 lndiegrrl  . Zev Keedem: Holocaust  4 p.m.  
Teaching and Sweatshops,"  Fall Tour," Little Theatre,  survivor, Hesburgh  . Acoustic Cafe:  
Hesburgh Center  Saint Mary's College,  Library Auditorium,  Lafortune Student Center,  
Auditorium, 7 p.m.  7:30 p.m.  7:30 p.m_  9 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Autopsy shows farmer MSU student suffocated 
EAST L\NSING, Mich. "There were no obvious signs er found the body Wednesday while The former Michigan State searching an unused kitchen for the
ofassault to the young man's 
Universitv student found dead in the source of a strange odor. Some stu­basemeri:t of South Wonders Hall body. It appears to be an dents had complained of the odor suffocated after becoming trapped accidental death situation." for several days. in an unused cooler unit, law The kitchen, used as a snack bar enforcement officials said Thursday. about eight years ago, is now used
Bruce Benson
"We're able to state at this time for storage and is adjacent to a 24­the death was not a homicide," said MSU police chief hour study lounge. Kathaleen Price, Ingham County The body was found in a sitting chief assistant prosecutor, at a assault to the young man's body,'' position along with some personal 
news conference Thursday after­he said. "It appears to be an acci­items, Benson said. noon. dental death situation." The man was tentatively identified An autopsy was performed The body was that of a 23-year­by a Michigan driver's license he Thursday morning indicating that old black man who was a student at was carrying, Benson said. Police oxygen deprivation caused the MSU between January 1997 and are waiting to release a name until death, said MSU police Chief Bruce May 1998, Benson said. The man the identity can bo confirmed by Benson. No signs of foul play were had never lived in Wonders Hall, dental records and all family mem­found, but officials are stitl waiting Benson said. bers are notified. for toxicology reports, which could The man also once lived in Benson said the storage room is indicate if any alcohol or drugs Lansing but used his parents' normally kept locked but was not were in the man's system. address on his license_ locked at the time the body was "There were no obvious signs of found.
A Wonders Hall assistant manag-
Baylor prof earns Grammy nomination 'Rent' opens auditions at Indiana U. 
WACO, Texas 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Michael Jacobson. associate professor of music at 
An unprecedented opportunity awaits young perform­Baylor University, received a Grammy Award nomina­
ers this week as the Broadway rock musical "Rent" tion for his saxophone rendition of John Harbison's 
holds open auditions Wednesday at the Indiana "San Antonio." The nomination i.s for Best 
University Auditorium. Whereas in most cases, securing Instrumental Soloist Performance, Without Orchestra. 
an audition with a Broadway casting director would The piece was performed and recorded in the summer 
require living in New York City, having an agent and of 1998 in Mary Gibbs Jones Concert Hall with accom­
hoping for an audi!ion appointment, the "Rent" casting paniment by Brian Marks, lecturer in piano. "The 
team is touring the United States looking for young, nomination was for me, but I could not have done it 
undiscovered amateur talenlt. "Rent" hopefuls do not without Brian," Jacobson said.'''Brian and I premiered 
need a headshot, an agent or an Actors Equity Union the piece in December of 1993 here on campus," 
card; they don't even necessarily need experience. Marks said. "When the recording opportunity came 
"We're mostly looking for a great voice and a distinct up, we began working on it again in the spring for the 
personality,'' said Casting Director Heidi Marshall, who summer recording in Jones Hall right here on cam­
will oversee the IU auditions. Student interest in the pus." Jacobson is excited to be involved in such a well­
auditions has been very impressive, Marhall said. "We regarded performance, and he is proud to be asociat­
want people who have not become polished theatrical ed with the Baylor University music community. He 
performers," she said. IU Auditorium publicist Kathy said he hopes the nomination will bring attention to 
Gutowsky explained why IU was selected for the audi­the university. "This is the first time I've ever been 
tions. "Bloomington is a strong college town with the associated with something like this," Marks said. The 
twenty-something crowd that the 'Rent' casting directors results will be announced in early January. 
are looking for," she said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatmes 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 27. 
Wedn~sday 
~ 
~y 

~,a•··~r . ..
-1:l'IL ,r'1~ · , . 
,J.J-,,.\S..~·~ \,,r 

Mon~y 
-~ 
Tuesday 
.&...&. O 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
®.....co .~. ~Gs'.lrrm o~;• 
High Low Showers Rain T-alonna Auniff Snow Ice Sunny pt, Cloudy Ctoudy 
Via Affodaled Press 
Atlanta 81 65 Las Vegas 97 66 Phoenix 100 73 BaHimore 73 61 Memphis 80 62 Sacramento 80 56 Boston 74 50 Milwaukee 74 62 St. Louis 75 58
~,@,~~~~(f ~ ct& 
Showers T-srorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 63 45 New York 74 61 Tampa 90 75 Via Associated Press GrapNcsNet Houston 88 67 Philadelphia 75 59 Wash DC 75 63 
Monday, September 27, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Conference studies business ethics 
By I.IZ ZANONI 
News Writer 
J\ two day businoss rnnf'nr­1rncn on nthical conf'ilicts 1mclud Friday. leaving studmlls with an othicallv· cc:nlric view of t.1w· husi-• nnss world. 
Topics al lhP confor­
11 11 C C , 
"Measuring a n cl Managing Et. h i ca I l!isk: llow Investing in Fthics adds Valuo" included tho detrinwn­tal offncts ol' PthicaJ conf'licls havn in terms ol' a company's moral11. productivity and rqiu­lation. Participants examined ways lo resolve conl'lirts likl~ convnntional codes of conduct as well as everyday relation­ships ol' trust and loyalty betwoon company and con­sunrnr. 

"It doesn't occur to all husi­rrnssos that paying atte11tion to ethical dil!1mmas is a signil'i­can t problem," said Tom Cusimano. a l'inaneo profos­sor, who organized t.hc con­forencc. · 
Tho confernnco addrnssod 
how ignoring ethical risks can 
load to lossos and tho eventu­
al downl'all of a company. 
"Good ethics are good busi­nnss, good nthics is the only business. tho rest will take care ol' itself." said JP-rry Langley, former vice president 
ol' th!1 McDonald's Corporation. 
I[11 spoke ol' the complex eth­ical decision McDonald's faced when beef from Creal Britain 
was found to contain mad cow's disease. McDonald's immediately took beef prod­ucts off their menu knowing that tho company might suffer in sales. 
Participants at the confer­ence included scholars and professors iu economics, finance, philosophy, and law from around the country. 
University of Pittsburgh, Boston College, John Hopkins, Yale and Nnw York University wore some of the sr,hools rcp­rese nte d at the conference. Many of the executives who partook in the conference wore Notre Dami'\ alumni, Cosirnano said. 
The conference was spon­sored by Notre Dame's College of Business Administration, its Center for Ethical and Heligious Values in Business, and the McAndrews Trust. 
Lecture: In·dian politics adapts to religious war 
By KRISTEN FITZPATRICK 
News Wrirer 
The Kellogg Institute hosted a conference this weekend cover­ing topics on the political and economic situations in India, including child labor and educa­tion, ethnicity and politics, and nationalism. 
Pratap Mehta of Harvard University reller,t.ed on tho e!Tect of diversity among the Indian people and their democracy in a discussion "The Civilizational 
Framework  of  Indian  
Democracy".  
Mehta  commented  on  the  

widespread accommodation of the differences in the political system. 
"There are conflicts among religious groups, and India tries 
to accommodate all groups through the sharing or powor among political groups in the countrv," Mehta said. 
Mehta also cornmonted on the fact that nationalism is an anom­aly in India because of the dilfer­e nces among the country's groups. 
"Politics is more about ritual than anything flise," he said. 
The conference, "India and the Politics of Developing Countries" was held in honor of political sci­entist Myron Weiner who wrote 13 books and edited countless others on Indian politics. He is credited with opening the under­standing of Indian politics is the United States and with being an expert on child labor in develop­ing lands. Participants took ideas from Weiner and expanded and critiqued his ideas. 
~ell here ram with everything in the world -­and not havi~~ a clue and my folks probably still PO'd that I'm not goinq to be a W!lwli•hfB$M'ililhr••Ci,ii•IM+), .i•l•)i411rJM•ieftll.»D I'll just take my MBA thank you ve,y much 
and put it to µse someplace w~ere they at least know what they're doing~ . and want me to do it with them.lut4tjw1llnot only tolerate but actuallylilIS•IllfI![;J my doing it mYWaYAND help me gain an edg·e AND not put any limits on hOW far 
I can go and perhaps see that what droveme to POPoff in class so much was really just an expreSsionof my CREATIVE DRIVE. Wouldn't that be great? 
That's not too much to ask 
is it?ri 
BE VERY CAREFUL WHAT YOU ASK FOR. BECAUSE THE GffiING IS VERY GOOD AT US WEST. THE BETTER WE DO, THE BETTER YOU WILL DO. ANY PROBLEM WITH THAT? 
PLEASE COME TO OUR INFORMATION SESSION TO HEAR AND LEARN MORE ABOUT THE EDGE PROGRAM: TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, FROM 6:00 -7;00 PM, COBA ROOM 160. 
ALL RESUMES NEED TO BE SUBMITTED BY OCTOBER 20, 1999. 
US WEST UNIVERSITY RELATIONS . RESUME FAX LINE: 
303-965-4339. 
WEB SITE: WWW.USWEST.COM. 
EOE. 

0ffid1l~n~o,01th, 
Jt;lflllU.S.01\lfflpiETum
life's better here@ 
page4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, September 27, 1999 

MARY CALASH/The Observer 
A DRIVE BACK IN TIME 
Members of the Pioneer 
Automobile Association held an antique car show Sunday afternoon in the A9 parking lot behind Lewis Ilall. The South Bend chapter of tlrn association was founded more than 45 years agp. 
MAHY CALA::,H/Tne Ooserver 

Alcohol intake 01ay affect sleep patterns 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
Too little sleep can slow you down as much as too many drinks. 
That's the conclusion of a Stanford University study of people with mild to' moderate sleep apnea: people whose breathing stops sevr,ral or even dozens ol' times an hour, interrupting their sleep with­out their knowlmlge. 
About 12 million Americans havA the problem but fewer than 2 million of them have been diagnosed, according tu the American Sleep Apnea Association's Web site. The undiagnosed figure may be as high as 25 million, according to Stanford's Sleep Disorders Clinic and Hesnarch Center. 
People known to have apnea did as poorly on a test of reaction time ·as pnople who were too drunk to drive a bus or truck in California, said Dr. Nrdson Powell of the Stanford center. 
On three of seven measure­ments, they did worse than people too drunk to drive at all in California and other states where the legal test is a blood alcohol content of .08 percent. 
Powell said he wanted to underscore the dangers of driving while sleepy, whether or not it's because of apnea. 
"How many times have you or anybody you've known been nodding off at the wheel, or said, 'Gee, I've got to roll the window down or turn the music louder"?" he said. "I'd bet every driver, at one time or another has dri­ven too tired. We know it's wrong but we still do it." 
Powell presented his study Sunday at the annual conven­tion American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and !\eek Surgery Foundation, Inc. 
"This is a wonderful study," said Dr. Regina Walker, an associate professor of oto­laryngology at Loyola University in Chicago. "lt is an extremely well-thought­out, well-controlled, prospec­tive study that is looking at something I think is of great 
1999-2000 Season 
Notre Dame Film,Television, and Theatre Presents 
b}Iedda Gabler 
flenrik Ibsen 
I .. .,.,._.,... ,......__ -\' '·, 

Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, October 6 7 30 p.m.
: Thursday, October 7 7:30 p.rn. Friday, October 8 7 30 
: p.m. Saturday, October 9 7:30 p.m. Sunday October IO 2 30 
: p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
~;ckets are available at La Fortune Student Center Ticket Offi ,-astercard and ViJa orders call 631-8128 ce. 
significance." 
The study looked at 80 vol­unteers and 113 people with apnea. The volunteers' aver­age age was 29; 56 pr,rcent were women. In contrast, 81 percent of' the apnea patients were men, and their aVfirage age was 47. 
However, statistical analy­sis ruled out age and gender as reasons for the difforence, Powell said. 
All of the people took a 10­minute test of' reaction spec,d, pushing a button to turn off a randomly set light. After four tests to get thr.ir baseline reaction time, the comparison group started drinking 80­proof' alcohol. 
They were tested three more times as thPy b1pt drinking. Their blood alcohol count averaged .05 pflrcent at the first retest, .08 1rnrcont at the second and .08:-3 at the third. 
It's illegal in California and several other states for any­one with a blood-alcohol con­tent of more than .04 percent to drive a bus or truck, and .08 is considered legal proof of driving drunk in 16 states. 
In addition to simple reac­tion times, analysts looked at six mathematical permuta­tions, such as the means of the 10 fastest and of the 1 O slowest times. 
The apnea patients, whose breath stopped about 29 times an hour while they were asleep, did worse on all seven measurements than the drinkers did on their first re­test, and worse on three of them than those who were legally drunk. 
Leader/Manager. 
Full-time college students or graduates. $31 K starting salary. Summer interns available. 
U.S.M.C. Officer Programs. 
Contact Lt. Simek at 
765-743-8359. 
Museuill 
continued from page l 
Hichard Mever, Assistant Professor or" Modern and Contemporary Art at University of Southern California, emphasized the contradictions of censoring art. 
"It is a complicated kind of circle that censorship sets around the objects it's trying to suppress." he said. 
Meyer cited the cancellation of the late Robert Mapplethrope's show at the Corcoran Gallery in Washington, D.C .. in 1989 as an example of how censoring art increases its circulation and public appeal. · 
Meyer discussed how sup­porters of Mappelthorpe's provocative work showed their disgust for the cancellation by projocting tlH\ images on the outsidf; of the gallery the night before the show was supposed to open. 
"This was a key episode in the political reclamation of Mapplethorpe's work," he said. 
Meyer also said that oppo­nents of l\1applethrope's work, like Jesse Helms and the Christian Coalition, con­tributed to its recirculation when they distributed repro­ductions or dr,tailed desc:rip­tions of those images to their followers. 

The Observer is currentlylookingfor an assistant Web Irdn1:i:nstrator. Contact Eric Kushto:at 634-4336 for more information. 


Monday, September 27, l 999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Sightseeing plane crashes, kills I 0 
K;\ILUA-KONJ\. Hawaii 
1\ sigh!srwin~ airpJanr with IO pnopln ahoard <·.rnslwcl !Jigli 011 Lim flanks of tlrn Maunu l.ua Volcano. T~wre Wl1n• no sur­\irnrs. "Tlw plalln was totally demolislwd, just. lik1• a pla1w would lrn if it went into l'llf'ks at a high ratP or spPl'd '" saiu Doug LPnL1, spokns11rnn for Uw Hawaii Volcanoes National (>ark. HPsetw crews nwclrnd thn n•moln spot 1111 tlw Big Island of' Hawaii to rpcov1!r bodit•s Sunday mor11i11g. said Bruce Butts of tl11• llawaii Countv Civil llefonsn. No dntails Wl'l'n rekas,,d on tlw victims. "This is a shock lo 11s." said Boy Mann, Big Jslaml Air's dirPdor of operations. "It just simply hurts. Our !warts and our prayers go out to all th11s1\ l'nmiliPs that havl' betin imp.icwcl by this wholP thing." Maim declinnd to rPlnase any i11!'onnat.io11 about tlw passengers except to say t)wy wen• tourists. l1(1 also declined to tJallll' tlw pilot bul said tliat person had morn than 10,000 hours or lli.ght l'Xpcrhmce. 
Sheriff denounces gays, 
feminists on official Web site 
FO!rr MYEHS. fla. 
A 1:1orida slrnriff is using his nf1icial govnrn­lIH'lll \,\'eh silP to attack gays, fominists, atlw­ists. !IH' Anwrirnn Civil Lilwrties Union and abortion. .r\f'tl'I' quoting tlw prnamble lo tlrn U.S. Constitution, Lnc County Slrnri!T John McDougall denouncns what he calls "the dia­buliral forms of moral corruplion." McDougall, :i7. said lw postnd tlrn letwr as a crime preven­tion clor11111P11t two wtwks ago.The Florida alt.orrwy g<•1wral's of'l1ce wouldn't conrnient on tilt' il'gality 111' MrDougall's USP of govnrnment prop1•rty lo nxprnss 1wrsonal views. Len County C:ommissionPr .John '.\,fanning said '.\1cDougall is allow('(! his vit•ws, "but wlH•n it conu1s to lax­payNs paying for tlw Web site, them has to bP a quPstion ... 01· t.lw aµpropriawnnss of' lhal arlivity." 
Mexican town burns 
rape suspect 
SAN CHISTOBAL DE LA CASAS, Mexico 
I lundr'l'(ls of townsfolk in th,~ southern staln of Chiapas raid!id a jail. sciznd a man accused of' raping a 2-ycar-old girl and burrwd him to d1!al11 in tlw town plaza. a local official said Sunday. Manunl Huiz Lopez had been arrest­Pd hy stall' police Saturday morning in Nuevo l'w~hlo Solista/rnacan, about 25 miles north­wnst of San Cristobal de las Casas, the main <"ity in Chiapas. City Council member Deonisio Sanrhcz said. "The people were very angry. Wn could not talk with them and wo could not intflrvrnie to kC11p thnm from taking justice into lfwir ow11 hands." Sandwz said by telephone. l'olicP rnscu<!d him wilh second-degrne burns, but the mob broke into City Hall. captured him again and burnncl him to death, Sanchez said. 
14hiWilldti}N/ill
Dow AMEx: 
771.79 ]ONES -5-71 Nasd.iq:
-32.96 
21411-41 
0 
-9.42 
NYSE: 
589.5.i -l .44 S&P 500: Composite 1277.36 
Volume:
10279.33 877,780,000
-3.J 1 
VOLUME LEADERS 
C9"i'A.N'Y Tl.Ct;.1:1' •CHA!:;G&
' CiWjClj PJtIStE llffl:L COil• nrrc -i, 36 -l.. 8;)00 75 .,, AH&R.lCA ONLlN& AOL +11..1:l -ti.HOO 97 .Jl MICROS01P'l" CORP M.1'T -.~7 -.:U:'15 90. IJt PILL COIIIPU'T&R DELL +l.CiO +ll.6!il00 U.6:9 CISCO St!T!NS C9CO • .34 -.n,o 6i .00 MC! -WOIU,.bcOM rn WCOM -l. 03 -2.3800 76.12 NSTZZRO INC Nz.,-o +IU,00 +ll.1200 19,IA f,(.\lfllt.lr~ rIN-W -.08 -• 0100 l:i .19 AJ:J.,ST.,'.'Ut CQf\.P ""'" :;rn.2.s
AI.L -11.0:i -J,.5000 "t,'1\00 lNC YHOO . 5. 50 +!I. ~eoo ia,. :n 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVlCES 
EAST TIMOR 
Associated Press 
DILi 
l'ro-Indonesia militia­men should prrncef'ully roturn to East Timor and lwlp rnbuild tho province, Maj. (ien. Peter Cosgrove, the commander of' a peacekeeping force, said Sunday, as he prepared to 
take  control  of'  the  
province  ·  from  the  
Indonesian army.  

The transfer of authority in East Timor conrns with the earlinr than expected withdrawal of most or the 20,000 Indonesian troops in tlrn territory. Only about 1,500 lndonnsian soldiers 
w.ill be left by Tuesday. 
Cosgrove also called for an accelerated deployment or the second half of tho 7,500-strong force, amid persistent reports that the militias are massing out-
Quayle to abandon presidential race 
side the capital to attack the peacekeepers. 
"We would welcome militia to come along back into the political debate, to come back in unarmed," Cosgrove told Australian television 
The militias, backed by Indonesian troops, launched a terror cam­paign in the province after residents voted nearly 4­to-1 in favor of indepen­dence in a U.N.-sponsored referendum on Aug. 30. 
The Australian-led peacekeeping force arrived in East Timor on Sept. 21 to stop the vio­lence and maintain order unlil a U.N. force arrives in November to shepherd the territory through the transition to indepen­dence. 
Just across the border in the province of West Timor, militiamen bran­
dishing rifles and machetes vowed Sunday to fight for the province. 
An Indonesian reporter, who interviewed militia members in West Timor. told The Associated Press that they were awaiting 
the  order  retake  the  
province and  were  pre-.  
pared to attack.  

East Timorese remain fearful, despite the peace­keepers' presence. 
!'The militias are still out there. They are gone now but they might come back. Everyone is afraid," said Paulino Pinto, a Dili resi­dent who lost everything when a mob set fire to his home. 
The peacekeeping mis­sion faces other daunting challenges. The first reconnaissance flights have shown that the province of 800,000 is nearly deserted, with up to 
end, after consulting with his wife, Marilyn, and cam­
paign  manager  Kyle  
McSlarrow.  
The  braintrust deter­ 

mined that Quayle could not raise enough money to com­pete deep into the primary season, even if he fared well in New Hampshire, the first-in-the-nation primary state. 
Bush, the two-term Texas governor, has raised more than $50 million -five times that of his nearest challenger. Quayle has b1ien running a debt since early in the campaign. 
Rep. John Kasich of Ohio, former Tennessee Gov. 
orld 
•I 
page 5 
Lamar /\lexander and Sen. Bob Smith of New llampshire dropped out of the GOP primary contest earlier this year. 
Kasich endorsed Bush. Alexander, like Quayle, -cited Bush's fund-raising prowess as a rnason for leaving. Smith is consider­ing a third-party bid. 
The former vice president is not expoctnd to cnd9rse a candidacy Monday. 
Quayle's announcement comes as the remaining campaigns prepare to file their October finance state­ments that will disclose how well their fund-raising operations are dt>ing. 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Former Vice President Dan Quaylfl has decided to drop out of the Hepublican presiden­tial race. a f t e r deter­mining 
1 that lw c a n · l compete w i t h G e o r g e Quayle 
Bush's fund-raising juggernaut, The Associated Press l1mrnod Sunday. 
Quayle will announce his intentions al a news confer­ence Monday in Phoenix, Ariz., said asenior cam­paign official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
llis departure winnows the GOP field to eight major Hepublican candidates, and will increase speculation about the finance and politi­cal health of the remaining contenders. 
Conservative commenta­tor Pat Buchanan is on the brink of bolting the GOP to seek the Reform Party nom­ination. 
The Quayle official said the former vice president decided to quit this week­

75 percent of its buildings and homes demolished. 
"If we don't manage to get food and medical sup­plies to those in the hills and, security permitting, enable them to move back to the towns by the time the rainy season comes in a few weeks, we could be in even deeper trouble," Hoss Mountain, the U.N. humanitarian coordinator for East Timor, said on his return from one flight. 
Security concerns have hampered road convoys, forcing aid workers to use air drops that officials admit are hit-and-miss. 
A UNICEF plane left Sunday carrying baby food and tents to refugees in West Timor, but the Indonesian military blocked foreign aid work­ers from ensuring the sup­plies reach their destina­tion. 
page 6 Th; Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMNT Monday, September 27, 1999 

Sponsored by: Jus Vitae Feminists for Life Notre Dame Right to Life 
Monday, Sep[ember 27, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
CHINA 
Former dissidents reflect on 50 years of Co0101unis01 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
IL's jusl a YMCA m<iNing. Fong 
l.a11rui n•calls tl'!ling !wr panmls 
wlwn tlmv askPd wh;.t tlmir 16­
war-old cl1wglllr:r was whisp,\r­
] ng about 
w i I. h f'riP1His in lrnr bed­room back in 1937. 
y
Tlw 
m tlt) ling was a 
c: o v n r . 

Mao Tse-tung
FPng. daughter of a minor official in China's ~ationalisl. govnrnmnnl. and her friPrnls wnni talking about Llw urban undorground communist movrnmmt. (ired by a passion to save tlwir country l'rom Japam1s!1 in\'aders. 
I•ar from Fcng's comfortable city home. poor, teen-agr cowherd Xia Jingcai joined \'tao Tso-lllng·s Hed Army on its f>,000-miln Long March l'rom south China lo the north, drawn bv tlw communist forcA's r<;cruiting slogan: "Kill tho rich to hdp llw poor." 
China's rommunist revolution was born of urban intellectuals like Feng and nurturnd by rural prasants like Xia. Behind today's patriotic forvor celebrating com­munism's triumph 50 yr.ars ago -on Oct. ·1. 1949 -lie livrs of' tumult and dedkalion. 
FPng. Xia and othc1· votAran rnvolutionarios lived through tho lrnady y,rnrs of communism's fronted bookcases are packed bqmk. early promise, famine and politi­two books deep and the walls "The commander said, 'What's cal persecution that killed mil­are decorated with calligraphy wrong with you? Here, grub this lions. And then the capitalist and a portrait of the late horse's tail and hang on.' lie reforms that have brought rapid Premier Zhou Enlai. saved my life." d,welopment and improved liv­Feng's indepcndAnce offended While Xia later fought the ing stan-strict tradition­Japanese and then the dards bul al Chinese Nationalists, Feng worked in also an Bpi­"At first we didn't teachers and communist-held arnas as a demic of l'oreign writer. She left Yan'an on foot
understand it, but we
corruption Protestant mis­with friends, singing and chat­and other knew it was secret." sionary teach-ting as they walked 20 miles a social ills. ers alike and day for a month to the commu­"I was a got her expelled nist-con tro11 e d city of
Feng Lanrui 
pretty from three Zhangjiakou. She married Li
Communist official 
strong­willed per­son. My par­ents gave us a lot of freedom and didn't mind much what we did," Mrs. Feng, now 79, said in an interview in her dim, high­ceilinged study, where glass­
~CUTIIEIE ANDHANGONOOORKN08 ___ -r-------------------------• 
I I I 

I I I 
I 
' 
' 
I 
' 
I I I I I 
' 
Dear _____ the grouch, 
There's something you should know. In the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy. And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
So, because I like you, may I suggest you start the day with a GROISSAH'WICtr from BURGER KING: It's filled with mouthwatering sausage, egg and cheese. And that should make anyone less~Ewn yoo. Ifitdoesn't, then we're on to Plan B. And you don't want to know Plan B. 
Sincerely, ______ 

THE DELICIOUS CRO/SSAN'WICH.~ 
The Huddle . Lafortune Student Center 

It just tastes better.: 
~-----------------~--~-----------------------------41 
www burgerking.com UMITfO TIMf ONLY. PRICF ANO PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY 
0199!l llURGEAKN. OOAPORAroN !IUllG(RKIMJC®'OAA1111 IS TI£ EXCLUSIVE Lm<S!E Of 1lt' 'II JUSTTASlIS BETTEJl" l1V.!lft,\I\AA ~OM RfGIST€flED IIOOGEA KJ!;'.i.CIOSSIWWICHNIJ BUN HM.VI'S L!XiO TIWIDIAAt<S. 
Wal-'\t to Wl"ite fol" The Obse!"ver? Call 631-5323. 
schools. An Chang, a Yan'an alumnus and 
uncle once soldior, but saw him only a few 
imprisoned by times during the civil war years. the Nationalists gave her books Feng was setting up a youth from the Soviet Union. At a book newspaper in Shanghai when grouµ, she read articles about Mao stood atop Beijing's Gate of Chinese revolutionary leaders. lleavenly Peace to announcfl the 
"At first we didn't understand founding of communist China on it, but we knew it was secrnt. I Oct. 1. 1949. hid it under my pillow," she "I was 29. not old and not said. young," slrn said. "We didn't 
After Japan's full-scale inva­think the11 that establishing a sion in 1937 forced the Red country would be all that diffi­Army and the Nationalists into cult. We wern so simple then." an uneasy alliance, Feng and After working as a reporter her friends openly tried to rally and editor, in the mid-1950s support for the fight.. At night at Feng st.udicd economics at the hAr home in the southwestern Communist Party School in city of Chongqing, the Beijing and researched Marxist Nationalists' wartime base, they theory. printed communist propaganda. Like many veteran commu­
Feng joined the Communist nists, she and her husband suf­Party secretly in 1938 at age 17. fered during the Cultural Three times she evaded arrest Revolution, when the aging Mao once the Nationalist authorities pitted various factions against learned she was a party rnem­each other in vicious political ber. campaigns. 
"The third time my comrades Feng had been the only person told me, 'Look, Zhou Enlai to speak up for a colleague who would negoti-was con­ate for you if demned in 
you were "We always believed it the anti­
important, but would all someday be rightist cam­you're not, so paign of the
resolved. If you got 
you have to late 1950s, 
get out,' " she angry, you would be which target­
said. angry to death." ed those who She was had dared to smuggled to criticize Mao.
Feng Lanrui 
Yan'an, Mao's That was base in the Communist official used against 
northern 
province of 
Shaanxi, in 1940. Feng spent 
nearly five years there studying, 
teaching and writing. 
Long Marcher Xia arrived in the arid hills near Yan'an in 1935 amazed to be alive. Only about 8,000 of the 80,000 sol­diers who set out with Mao on the trek were alive when it ended just over a year later. Of the 30 men who started with Xia from his part of southwestern Guizhou province, only one other made it. 
Red Army soldiers retreating from the Nationalists subsisted on one meal a day, usually little more than pumpkins, coarse sorghum and red-hot peppers or grain seized from rural land­lords. Even Mao and the other commanders slept on rough­hewn wood beds covered with straw. Men fought with spflars when they had no guns. 
Many drow1rnd crossing rivers, froze to death or sul'fcrnd alti­tude sickness in snow-covered mountains, Xia remembers. Severely woundod men were ofteu left behind. 
"I never saw shoes. Just straw sandals," said Xia. a thin and vigorous man of 78 who livos in a retirement home for revolu­tionaries in Ji'an, •in Jiangxi province in southern China. 
Too young al 14 to be a sol­dier, he was a messenger, bugler and nurse's assistant. He was never seriously wounded, but once got so sick be fell behind. Luckily, he managed to catch up while his platoon took a 
her during 
the Cultural 
Revolution, the decade-long 
upheaval that began in 1966 
when Mao stirred up zealous 
youths to attack teachers, gov­
ernment officials, intellectuals, 
religious believers and those 
associated with traditional cul­
ture. 
Feng's husband was a govern­ment official in charge of foreign liaison. lie a.nd his wife suffered for his assQciation with high­ranking officials who were purged. 
"We were accused of many things: Being 'capitalist roaders,' opposing socialism and Mao and the Communist Party," shn said. 
Hadical Riid Guards ransacked their house six times, hauling away research materials and mnmenlos. She was sent lo a work camp for ollicials. Iler hus­band did hard labor in prison. Their 3-year-old son went to a baby-sittc~r in anollrnr province. Thrno oldm-childrnn and Frng's lilt.le sister, whom she was rais­ing, followod millions of other youths to tlw countrysic.1<1. 
"Wo always b111ievnd it would all sonwday he rnsolvnd. II' you got angry, you would lw angry t.o clealh;" Feng said. 
Af'tN Mao dim! in I 97fi, Ft>ng and Li wnro among tht' many whose names were cleared. Tlwy wont to work at the gov­ernment-run Chinese Academy of' Social Sciences. Sim l'ocusNI on economics and was onn of' ilrn first to warn about unern­ploynwnl -fornwrly a taboo topic. 
1111,. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Monday, September 27, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
/ 
Tl,e l11d~p,r111ln11, D,§i/y Nrw1/'fp~rSrrr,i1tg No1n D11111~1md S.int M,11y'1 
P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourl1 Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EoITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  8USINF.SS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AsST. MANAGING fOITOR  
Liura Petelle  

NEWS E0IT0R: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughcn SPORTS EllIT0R: Brian Kessler 
SCENF EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noree~1 Gillespie PHOTO E0ITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EOIT0R: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE Ml.NAGER/GENERAL INFO.............631-7471 FAx............................................................ 631-6927 A0VERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu E0IT0R IN CHIEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/A~sT. ME ................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OrncE. ..................................631-53 I 3 
NEWS...... . ...... ········· ...................... 631-5323 ohscrver.obs11l'ws. l@nd.edu VIEWl'Oll-iT. ............................... 631-5303 observer.vicwpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS ....... ................. 631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE ............. ...........................................631-4540 observer.scenc. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S ... ......................................... 631-4324 observer.smc. I@nd.edu PHOTO......... . ... 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sic,· a1http://obsm,e1·11tf.edu for d:iily ,1pdates ofcampm news, spon.,, feamre,; and opi11ion columns, as weH ;is cartoons, reviews: and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
1novies/n1usic for 
weekly student reviews
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus covernge
and rates of print ads 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
ro meet the editors and 
articles published after 
sraff
August 199') 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published Ill print and online by the students of the Universirv of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Marv's College. Edirorial content is rot governed by policies of the administrarion of either insdtutio11. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the a<Mninisrration of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing F.d1ror, Assistant Managing Editor and depamnenr edirors. Commentaries, letcers and columns presmt the views ofthc authors .md not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lcrters is encouraged. 
Questions regarding Obrerver po/ides should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 

Contrary to the opinions of too many people on this campus, the most impor­tant issue at Notre Da.mc is not the cur­rent record of our football team, or the job status of its head coach. I love lhe football team as much as anyone, but we have to think big picture. (That 
Mike Marchand
would be outside 
the campus -and 
I mean further 
Questionable
than the 
Freedoms
Linebacker.) 
Charles Hice 's column on Friday mentioned something that could affect not just C.oach Davie or the football team, but every person involved with this university and. indeed, on the entire planet. 
Rice criticized the University for what he feels is a 20-year trend of sacrificing its moral fiber for secular prestige. He used the example of many secularly prestigious institutions of higher learn­ing offering courses on animal rights. Now, "animal rights" sounds like a harmless issue. /\Iler all, who could possibly be against animals? But the sort of "animal rights" Hice articulates about is pure lunacy. 
Rice discusses a statement from 
Ingrid Newkirk of People for the Ethical 
Treatment of Animals that asserts that 
Americans eating chicken is somehow a 
larger atrocity than the wholesale 
slaughter of the Holocaust: "Six million 
people died in concentration camps, 
but six billion broiler chickens will die 
this year in slaughterhouses." PETA 
also plans to picket McDonald's begin­
ning Oct. 16. Among their complaints 
are that chickens raised for food at 
Mickey D's should have better trans­
portation because "every year, millions 
suffer broken bones and millions more die from the heat or cold." Heaven for­bid chickens should suffer or die before thev're killed and bP-come chicken salad. 
Now, let me be logical. WE'RE TALK­ING ABOUT CIIICKENS! Rven if there arc six billion chickens, they're still chickens! When the chickens complain, J'II listen. It could be entirely possible that the cure for AIDS or cancer died in a gas chamber at Auschwitz or one of the other llolocaust hells. The most six billion chickens could ever account for is about 60 billion Chicken Mc1\Juggets. Anyone who could possibly equate the two acts has a severe case of mixed-up priorities. 
Or worse. 
Rice also details the insane philoso­phy of Peter Singer, who is now a chair of bioethics at Princeton. In Singer's twisted world, apes, bears, cats, possi­bly chickens, chimps, dogs, dolphins, pigs, seals and whales arc all on a level with humans because they are rational and sentient br,ings. Does anyone else see a fundamental dichotomy here'? 
If not, lr,t's use a small sample: My dog and myself. In the last two weeks, I have studied the philosophies of Rene Descartes, David Hume and Sir Francis Bacon. Over that same period of time, my dog tried to bite the mailman. Recently, I have tried to control my weight by eating and drinking healthy foods. My dog likes to eat newspapers and drink out of the toilet bowl. I READ and WRITE. \1y dog poops on the car­pet. lntcllcctual winner: me. The mnre fact that I can determine it proves it. 
Bui Singer's not through yet. Those species listed are not only on a level with humans, but newborn and unborn babies are not. Perhaps Singer's actual­ly on to something here. If I get home and discover that my dog left a little present on the 11oor again and I decide that the proper punishment is sticking scissors in his neck, opening them, stuffing the business end of a Shop-Vac in the space I've crnated, and then sucking his brains out, it's called cruel­ty, and I'll spend the next few years of' my life avoiding a different kind of' ani­mal in an orange jumpsuit. But if' I arranged to do the same thing to an unborn baby, it's called a woman's right to choose, and I'll spend $300. 
There's a reason why I bring all of' this up. lngrid I\ewkirk, PETA, and Singer, whether they intend to or not, have delegated some humans to sec­ond-class citizens. The rest or us are not far behind. In fact, Newkirk already thinks so by stating that the deaths of six billion chickens outweigh the dnaths of six million humans. 
Charles Rice uses examples such as these to illustrate the wrong path for Notre Dame to take towards prestige in the academic community. I think ho has it backwards. 
We need to think big picture. What path are we as humanity taking when people who believe that "killing, say, a chimpanzee, is worse than the killing of a gravely defective human who is not a person"? That's something to think about while you eat a sausag!1 and boo Bob Davie on Saturday. 
Mike Marchand is a junior ojj:cam­pus English major who never poops on the carpet ... well. except for that one time. His column appears euery other Monday and his e-mail address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not ,wces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT
r::::=============~~=~E,------------­
0 
u 

OUR SAFETY DEPA.RT­MENT HA$ TESTED 
OUR DRINKING 
WA.TER A.ND FOUND 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"ff there's a book you really want to read, but it hasn't been written yet, lhen you must write it. " 
Toni Morrison American author 
..... 

,_______________ 

VIEWPOINT 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
c..__~_f:A~=-=--~-------'/-'------/_/~-------"" 
ND needs to hear silent screams of eating disorders 
Tlwy alfocl IJC'twnm1 liv<' and IO million fomalcs and 01rn mil­lion mal1is. They ravagn tlw livPs of 7 1wrcnnl of America's unc!Prgrnduatn population. Tim mortality ratn of one of these dnmons.is tH1ar 20 pnrcent, tho highest of any menial disorder. And tlw University of Our Lady is shutting its ()al"S to the silent screams emanating from the victims' mouths. 
These tormentors am eating disordnrs and tlrny prey on col­Inge studnnls. Tlrn college ,~lmosph1m1 is highly c<inducive to liwsn illnnssns. Stud,mts at this point in their livns struggle with gaining acccptance from p111H"s, living away from home, and trying to lmLp over tlrn chasm b1itwmm adolescence and adulthood. Most victims of eating disorders are in the age range of' 14-25 and are typically achkv<>mt•n t-orit1ntated, afllu­cnt, typri-/\ personalities. llmwstly. do you know anyone under thn llimw who lits that desrription·, 
I Sl'n: maybe eating disordnrs am part of the rnst or the cos­mos and so not enter our littln golden bubb!P. Don't we all wish. Since cnllnge. particularly Notre Dame, is the ideal setting for eating disorders to develop, why is om Univnrsity neglecting Lo inform sturl1mts ol' this reali­ty? 
l\oin· Danw's nfforts at i11lc1r111ing and supporting stu­cifHlls dealing with nating disor­dors am inadequate consi<l1:r­i11g ilwir prpvalenc1\ in this atmosphnrP. Saint Mary's is l"orming a discussion group lo deal with body image and eat­ing issll!is, but Nolrn Dame stu­dents can not participate due to liability masons. The University llealth [pnter offers counsPling only for Inter 'stages of rncovery and inslead refers students to agnncies i11 South !fond. Tlrnre are prog-rams on campus lhat olfor help in dPaling with smok­ing. alcolu~lism, s1ixual abuse and Pven less graw problems, such as timn managiiment and writing skills. Yet. people suf­
foring rrom eating disorders. 
who could comprise up to 10 
percPnt of the student body, 
hav<i nowhere to turn. As men­
tioned ahove, anorexia has the 
highest mortality rate among 
mnntal disorders; how many students have died from poor timn management? 
Maybe the University is not entirely to blame for the insuffi­cient resources for those suffer­ing with eating disorders. Victims often do not realize the seriousness of their altered eat­ing habits or are not able to admit their problem. Our soci­ety has a faulty perception of eating disorders. Anorexics are not nrnrdy I.he skinny girls who nat a piece of lettuce for dinner. Bulimia is not about vomiting and purging. They have nothing to do with food. They arc about guilt, insecurity, fear and becoming reconciled with the past and hopeful about the futurn. They have to do with getting up every morning and looking into the mirror and ulti­mately accepting what is star­ing back at you. 
The frightening rea-lity about eating disorders is that they arc rooted in the brain and then take their toll on the body. Thpy have all the troubling psy­dwlngind elements of a mental disordor. plus the detrimental physical offects of other illness­os. 
Curing these discasns must lrngin with tho victims admitting the problem, and this can only be accomplished when they are familiar with the disordm·. Hncovery can not happen alone. By providing educational infor­mation and stronger, support­ivn programs, the University can lrnlp students to gain back thnir bodies, minds and lives. 
But bol'orn Lhis can happen, th11 victims must regain their voices. 
Anonymous 
September 26, 1999 
Administration's logic on ad ban inconsistent 
LPt me see ii' I havn this straight ... 
The Observer may not accept ads from Gay and Lesbian Alumni of ND/SMC bf1causll GAL/\ is an organization that works against the teachings of the Catholic Church. The adminis­tration has also said that it feels that GALA is associat­
Kate Rowland
ed with the banned Cays and Lesbians of ~D/SMC, and as such it would be Read this. inappropriatP to condom1 It may save GALA because doing so 
your l~fe. 
would also imply comlon­ing rn.ND/SMC. 
rrankly. the administration is a little para­noid about the pcrnrnating influence of GLND/SMC. Thrne years ago, it denied College Democrats a permit to demonstrate on the grounds that it was fronting for GLND/SMC. Now GALA, an entirely separate organization, is be.ing banned from University publications on th<> grounds that it is a front for GLND/SMC. It is certainly an inconsistent argument to state that they are the same organization because many current and former members of GLND/SMC are also members of GALA. 
Many members of the Lyons Hall Volleyball Team are also members of the Lyons Hall Football Team, and they are definitnly different organizations. It is further inconsistent to state that they are the same because they have the 
same general goals 
-to support gay people. The volley­ball team and my football team both exist to give us a chance to run around and play sports, but again, this does not make them the same thing. The University is making ridiculous and · unsubstantiated assumptions in its advertising ban of GALA. 
GALA as a group supports the gay and lesbian alumni of Notre Dame. I don't think there are too many Notre Dame graduates who are in the dark as to the Catholic and University teachings on homo­sexuality. The Church does allow for some spirit of inclusion; it doesn't have any real prob­lem with celibate, God-fearing gay people. GALA knows what it has to work with and it knows what kinds of bones the Univel'sity is going to throw at it. GALA and its offi­cers will point out in a heartbeat that their organization has newer said any­thing contrary to 
.___
Catholic doctrine. 
Tho advertising ban is jumping the gun; it would make just as much sense to ban a restaurant from campus media advertising on the grounds that it may one day turn out to be fronting a brothel. 
If we're going to ban someone from advertis­ing on campus because they espouse beliefs contrary to or in conflict with those of the Catholic Church, we'rn going to see some big changes in the kinds of ads The Observer runs. 
Take the full-page Elton John ads that have been running recently. Talk about someone who goes against the teachings of the Catholic Church! Elton could be an honorary member of take too much control or the Universitv. In a nut­shell. he is not power­

~ ~.,/h lessly and brainlesslyI r following the Church's ~ teaching. The Officers of
f~ 
~ ~-the University must ~ frankly admit that they.J_~
~~ ~ , are being capricious in :,'~. the degree to which they 
letter of the Catholic law. They follow the Church as long as it is 
Church infringes on their educational free­dom they pitch a fit. 
Furthermore, the administration is against the Church imposing a broad doctrine from above bent on control­ling the University but levies the same kind of doctrine on The Observer. So not only are they being inconsis­tent in their heeding of Catholic teachings, they are also being entirely hypocritical. 
Thus, if the University must' condemn GAi.A's advertising, it cannot do so without destroying itself logically and putting itself in an extremely precarious 
/ poshion wilh respect to 
. the Church. G/\LA supports people; it does not spout anti­Church philosophies. If anything, GALA presents a challenge to those with strong faith, a challenge
..:........_......J that should be mnt and 
OutReachND: he has long spoken out against the condemnation and harassment of homo­sexuals and encourage their acceptance. lie is a gay role model for many homosexual people. IIis ads are okay. 
Ads from the Notre Danw United Muslim Association, a group whose members sham a common bond of non-Christianity and non­Catholicism, are cheerfnlly permitted. The College Republicans, who support the death penalty in a manner inconsistent. with tlrn respect-for-life teachings of the Church, are allowed to advertise. 
Ditto for College Democrats and their less­than-Catholic support ol" abortion issues. 
The omcers of the University arc being inconsistent in other re~pects. They arc saying that in the case of the sexual orientation non­discrimination clause. they must do as the Church directs. /\nd the Church is clear that engaging in homosexual activity is wrong. 
The Spirit of Inclusion says, "The rich her­itage of the Catholic faith informs and-trans­forms our search for truth." In other words, the administration is claiming to be a power­less, non-autonomous group in the face of the teachings or the Catholic Church. 
Nonsense! 
Monk has publicly and in writing disagreed with that other great teaching of the Catholic Church, Ex Corde Ecclesiae. lie complains that 
the Church is trying to 
not banned. The Spirit of Inclusion, a policy "adoptnd by the Officers of the University on August 27, 1997," tells the Administration exactly what it must do: "[fol­low] Christ's calling to treat others as we dnsire to be treated." 
Kate Rowland is a s_enior premed and Spanish major wilh a minor in science, tech­nology and values. Iler column appears every other Monday. · 
The-views expressed in this column are those oflhe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


THE 
page 10 OBSERVER Monday. September 27, 1999 

Gender relations make for fruitful discussions a Scene attempts to unearth the mysteries of 



By ELLEN ANDERSON 
Scmc \X'mer 
Three wise men once claimed to want girls ­yeah. all they really wanted was girls. "Girls: To do the dishes, to clean up my room, to do the laundrv and in the bathroom ... Girls." Perhaps these men, coJIActively known as the Beastie Boys, arn not to bP considered the tell-all experts on the suqject of women. but their spunky 1987 hit "Girls" does leave worn.en wondering about one thing: What is it that guys are all about'? 
· The c·onrept of the gender gap is in no way a recent revelation; the differences between the sexes have existed and always will. There seems to have been a resurgence of hard-core machis­mo in the past few years, however, and its preva­lence in the mainstream is overwhelming. Evidence of an overtly misogynistic mentality surrounds women in all forms. perhaps most­blatantly in the current musical industry. 
For all it's worth, there is a great deal of tal­
ented male artists currently enjoying success in 
our sorietv. Artists like Korn, Limp Bizkit and 
Gravity Kills are unquestionably some of' the 
most skilled performers in their trade, yet they 
endorse a definitively "machista" attitude. In the 
introduction to "All in the Family," lead Korn 
singer Jonathan Davis and Fred Durst of Bizkit 
collectively trade proclamations such as, "My 
d*** is bigger than yours." and "You look like 
one of those little dancers in a Hanson video, 
f"'** ..* ho." 
Bizkit's latest effort, the wildly popular 
"Significant Other," introduces us to the conrept 
of gratuitously "doing it all for the nookie." 
While on tour in support of their 
''Perversion" album, Jeff Scheel of Gravity 
Kills introduced his song "Guilty" with 
the riveting declaration, "Welcome to 
the Gravity Kills Whorehouse. Are 
you sick f'"*"* ready to put out?" 
Gone are the days of out-and-out 
censorship. which previously 
prevented lyrics such as these 
from being publicly present­
ed. 
Furthermore, the musical scene is in no way the only one being shaken up by the new societal norms. I well remember a time when a kinder, gentler World Wrestling Federation existed; when the focus of the troupe concentrated mdre on the outrageous antics of the lovable Hulkster and the flam­boyant Macho Man, H.ai1dy Savage. The First Lady of Wrestling, l\Iiss Elizabeth. dressed mod­estly, yet elegantly, and was adored by men and admired bv women. 
Today,· however, the WWF and its prime competi­tion, the World Championship Wrestling, push the statutes of good taste. The \VWF boasts a scantilv-clad hoartbrcakcr known as Sable, as well as her darker counterpart. the overly-muscular Chvna. The crowd is pumped up by their hero. Road Dogg, a particularly unsavory character who invites the pre­domina~tly-drunkcn audience to joi11 him in prodaiming his raunchy motto, "Suck it!" The depths to which this industry has sunk are appalling, but they seem to be working. Televised professional v\Testling is seeing its highest ratings ever. capitalizing on the exploitation of women and, apparently, giving guys what they want. 
Granted, television does not always offer a clear reflection of reality. But if the sport of pro wrnstling has tapped into the contemporary mainstream, what docs that say about the men of the new millennium'! Can the mentality or males really be rondensed into a love of half-dressed women, beer and blood? 
Clearly, the only way through which an accu­rato pPrspoctive ol' males could leasibly be com­piled was for a few of my girlfriends and I to "become male" lor a while. This task included doing things that boys typically enjoy: scoping out the bar scene, hanging out in the dorms and kicking root 011 the couch with a little televised enll~rtainment providod by the mogul of all things trashy. the FX station. 
After a quick survey of the Thursday-night bar­life. a co-collaborator and I decided that down­town would probably show the most promise for the night and for our mission. Clearly, we made the right choice, as we entered a popular bar to find it swarming with boys of all types, ranging from studenl'i to locals. Placing oursPlves square­ly in the middlr) of the dance lloor, we surveyed the activity around us and l'ound three~ distinct prototypes: a) singln sex groups dancing amongst themselves; bl couples focused entirely on earh other; and c) outsiders trying to infiltrate into larger groups -w~nnrally into those in group 
"a." 
Being in group "a" ourselves, we were con­t fl Il t 

cene ­
O
THE 
Monday, Sepcembcr 27, 1999 BSERYER page 11 




ong Notre Dame and Saint Marys students. asculinity from a feminine perspective. 
lo l>usl oul our own uwv1is until we were approadwd by possihl1• suitors. BPfol'I\ long, we wPrc pn~s1int11d with an aLtracliv11 pair of' l\notl 11 all boys who sHrnnNI to want no 1111,rp lhan a ri•ipndly da111:P. )"uH or liquid 1·rn11i11!~11cP. IHiWPVPI'. "friendly" soon lunwd into m11d1 morn. as tl10s1• boys sloppily uLlPmpL­1•d to g-rop<' us in tJw publi1'. "Y"· 
Wn trind to givn them Llw lwndit of the dnubt by politl'ly moving away, but LhPsn hnys wPre rPkntlPss. Af't<•r a snri<'s of' what they ll!H.loubt­l'dly consiciPrnd to Ill' nu-fail pick-up lilms liko. "I can't hdp it -you're• just so s1\xy'' and "l)o you think thal tlwn/s any clmn(:e ,w'll !,{Pt to S<'C\ the two of' you lwauliful girls honk up to11ighl'!" we dP1·idPd !11 cut our lossPs and SPl out. in sPck of ourst!lves. we agrnml on O'Neill llall,11 IH'W SPl of ipn~forably uninloxical.nd) sub­
whcrn the rnsidents of the third floor
jPcts for tlw rn•xt night. 
always prowi lo be in pnak ··male" form. 
vVliaL lwt11·r P11vironmP11l in which lo When we arrived at our deslination, collo­lwgin sl.lldying !hf' malP spPciPs than 011 quially known as the "Humpus Room," we weretlu• Noln' l>anw campus 011 a Friday gnwted in normal fashion. Tlrn guys said theirnight. wlwrP irnys c:an lw found usual hellos, and we were invited inside to get in 
lounging around tlwir !wlovnd 
on a typical "boys· night in." This concept inr.lud­
halls in Llwir LnH'st l'lnmi•nt. To 
nd hanging out in their common room watching
rondu<'I mv "rnsParcb." I 
the original boy-humor movie. "Austin Powers." 
("(Jl'!Tl'd two ;,r my girll'ri('IHIS 
Tim glmdPr diff1\ronces in the room quickly
into busting ii around Um 
f)('canw apµarcnt, as th(• striking Elizabeth
hallow1•d \Vpst ()uad. 
11 urlPy pr..rnced 011-scn•1rn sporting a tight,\lkr a hit of' disn1s­11',tllwr cat suit. As tlw boys gawked, we girlssio11 as lo 
maclP small-talk amongst ourselves, feigning oblivion to tlw 011-scrl'C'll situation. When the movil' condutkd. tlw guys decided that it was l.i11H' !'or ttw next plrnse in the normal night snq1wnn· to bngin: a littl1• late-night lounge wrnstling. 
Aflnr a quick round of shots to prime thmn­sPlves. oui-subjects took off running down the hall, rlrn.nting loud war_crins tD warn off intr.rlop­tffs. From liere. the boys pounced on each other, not bothering vvith standard wrestling moves such as the Figurn-Four-Leglock or the Bosion Crab. but rather full-out brawling. Entertaining as this was, it told us not much morP. about nor­mal male activity than we had already gathered from everyday inwraction with guys. 
liager to get an untainted male outlook on lite, wti rntunrnd home to check out "The X Show." FX's spin-off of Comedy Central's "Man Show." 
Hy the first commercial break, we had seen more than enough. The theme of the episode, as with every episode. centered around beer, 
automobiles and, ofcourse. shapely girls doing half-hearted aerobics. 
"Learn where to buy a car like this ... and where to meet someone like THIS .... " adver­t.ism! the announcer as an impossibly chested woman came strutting onstagc. 
Next came "Name That Plastic Surgery," in which three women traipsed onto the cat­walk. one boasting cheek implants, one with ­lip implants and, of coursM, the one gratuitous woman sporting breast implants. In this vein, 
"The Man Show" boasts much the same for­mat, labeling itself as "Thirty minutes of beer r·ommerdal fun." and assuring that yes, oh. 
yes. there would be plenty of girls on trampo­lines for added viewer enjoyment. 
Arn boys. in the broad and. unf'ortnnately, stereotypical sense necessarily wrong for func­tioning us Uwy do') Should they hr. chastised for thnir actions'! The phrase "boys will be boys" conrns LO mind in esµccially poignant. fashion lwn•. What1wer it is that guys want. and whatev­er they arn all about, clearly remains a mystery. Ex-Soundgardtm lnad singer Chris Cornell's sin­gin "Can't Change Mn" states, "Sim's going to change the world. !Jut she can't change me." ... 
Mfln, for the most part, cannot be~ dmnged and molded into something that they're just not ­trun. They can. lmwever, change themselves by 
sporting a little morn than a Bcastie Boy mentali­ty. What does it nrnun to br. a guy? IL mr,ans the 
Joe Drown of 
O'Neill Hall takes a 
puwcr to expect a litlle more out of life than girls 
flying leap while 
on trampolines and a hall~hour of "beer commer­­
wrestling with one of his 
cial fun." Chivalry may be dead, !Jut let's hope
buddies. 
that machismo's headed down that same road ­
ELLEN ANDERSONfThe Observer 
fast. 



page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 27, 1999 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Reds overcome Cardinals en route to NL wild card 
Associated Press 
ClNCINNATl 
Pokev Heese bil a three-run horner ·in the 12th inning as the Cincinnati Reds overcame Mark McGwire's 60th homer and continued their headlong rush toward the playoffs Sunday with a 7-5 victorv over the St. Louis Cardinals. · 
The Reds blew a two-run lead in the ninth -Fernando Tatis hit his second homer to lie it ­and fell behind on Edgar Renteria's double in the top of the 12th before rallying for their 21st last at-bat victory. 
With two aboard and one out,
•:;.· 
Reese hil his 10th homer off Ricky Bottalico (3-8). prompting the Reds to spill out of the dugout to form a jubilant clus­ter around home plate. 
The Reds have won five of six games, positioning themselves for their first postseason appearance since 1995. The Reds moved a game ahead in• the NL wild-card race. 
Braves 10, Expos 0 
John Smoltz won for the first time in more than a month and Atlanta clinched its eighth straight division title with a win over the Montreal Expos. 
Atlanta's seventh straight win, coupled with the Mets' 3-2 loss in Philadelphia, wrapped up the NL East for the Braves with one week left in the sea­son. 
Eddie Perez's three-run dou­ble capped a five-run first off Jeremy Powell (3-8} and Smoltz {10-8} did the rest from there. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
PerP-z added a solo homer in the eighth to make it 9-0. 
Smoltz allowed six hits in eight innings to win for the first time since Aug. 24 against C:incinnati. Smoltz, who was 1-6 in his previous 15 starts. also went 2-for-3 with a double and was also hit by a pitch. 
Rockies 8, Marlins 6 
Todd Helton hit a three-run homer in tbe sixth inning and singled in the go-ahuad run in the seventh as the Colorado Rockies beat the Florida Marlins. 
Helton's single broke a 5-5 tie and scored Kurt Abbott i'rorn second. The hit, which drove in his 111th run. came off Raphael Medina (1-1), who also walked two in a one-third of an inning. 
Colorado reliever Curtis Leskanic 1:1-31 allowed one hit and struck out one in one-third of un inning. Rockies starter Jamey Wright gave up five earned runs on eight hits in 5 2-3 innings. 
Dave Veres allowed an RBI single to Cliff Floyd in the ninth, but got the final three outs to pick up his 31st save. 
Dodgers 10, Padres 7 
Pinch-hitters Trenidad Hubbard and Jose Vizcaino drove in two runs each to spark a six-run rally in the seventh inning Sunday as the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the San Diego Padres in their final home game of the season. 
Todd Hollandsworth and Adrian Beltre opened the sev­
enth with singles. and Paul LoDuca bunted for a hit to load the bases. 
Matt Whisenant then relieved Dan Miceli (4-5), and Hubbard, batting for winning pitcher Robinson Checo, lined a two­run single to center to snap a 4­4 tie. One out later. Vizcaino drove in two more with a dou­ble lO blow the g;ame open. 
Pirates 8, Cubs 4 
Kevin Young hit a three-run homHr to cap a four-run 11th inning as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the Chicago Cubs, and held Sammy Sosa homerless in his Wrigley Field season finale. 
Young drove in five runs and reached 101 RBIs as the Pirates avoided a four-game sweep. Scott Sauerbeck (4-0) pitched 1 1-3 innings for the victory. 
In the 11th, Warren Morris singled, moved to second on a sacrifice and reached third on a wild pitch by Mark Guthrie (0­
2). 
Adrian Brown was intention­ally walked before Pat Meares hit a grounder to third that allowed Morris to score the go­ahe ad run. Meares also reached on Shane Andrews' wide throw to first, and one out later, Young hit his 24th homer, off Bobby Ayala. 
Brewers 11, Astros 3 
in the NL Central, dropped the two.
Marquis Grissom went 4-for-6 
tinal two games of the three­Scott Elarton (9-5) gave up
with a homer and five RBIs, game series at Milwaukee. five runs and seven hits in 2 2-3 backing Milwaukee rookie Kyle 
Peterson (3-7), who lost to innings, his shortest outingPeterson as the Brewers beat 
Houston in his first career start since becoming a starter July 3.
the Houston Astros. 
on Aug. 16, allowed two runs He walked one and struck outHouston, which began the day and seven hits in six innings. three before Chris Holt1 1/2 games ahead of Cincinnati He struck out five and walked relieved. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds muse be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for comenr without issuing refunds. 
SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT  HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS  FOR SALE  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
GROUPS·  http://mrnmrentals.homepage.com/  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  ++  
NOTICES  Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS  232-2595  CALL 271-9412  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  PERSONAL  
Fund event.No sales required.Fund  BUY/SELUTRADE  
Rasier days are filling up, so call  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  Phone Cards, 669 mln/$20  ALL GAMES  Struggling with self- 
HOUSE OF FRANCIS RELIGIOUS  today. Contact Joe @ 1-888-522­ Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  243·9361 or 258-4805  ALL LOCATIONS  esteem?Frustrated with the oppo- 
GOODS  4350.  available for football/parent wknds.  GREAT PRICES  site sex?Can't understand your  
The largest selection of icon's in the  5 Rooms with private baths, $80­ PRO-SPORT  271-9330  roommates?Having trouble relax­ 
Midwest.Come and visit our out- Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to  $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  5POSITION  !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!!  ing?Embarrassed about your family  
standing selection!  adopt. Will provide a lifetime of  campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1·  SLANT BENCH  TICKETMART INC.  and their behavior?Feeling alone as  
Call Fred @ 219-233-2523.  laughter,love,devotion and opportu­ 800·418-9487  Like New  www.ndtickets.com  a graduate student and wishing you  
.;  Located across from Memorial  nities.  $30.00  ++++++++++++++++++~++++++++  had more support?IF ANY OF  
Hospital, house behind Kagel's  800-484-4699 code 0019  B&B Orchard Cottage  Call Craig @ 246-141 0  +++  THESE QUESTIONS RING A BELL  
Flower Shop, 111 E. Navarre St  Games available:  WITH YOU­ 
HEAVENLY HAM  Navy Oct. 30th  FOR SALE  CONSIDER JOINING A  
Immediate Openings for Energetic  B.C. Nov.20th  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  GROUP!The University Counseling  
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  Individuals. Store Work Hours: M-F 7:30 to  2 to 4 people  TICKETS  CALL 271-9412  Center is currently screening indi­viduals with a variety of interperson- 
PHONE 631 ·COPY  5:30 Sat: 8:00 to 2:30  in business 8 yrs.  SPRING BREAK 2000  al concerns to join small.confidien•  
www.CopyShopND.com  No Sundays  $275 2 nights  Need 2 ND vs. USC GA !ix. Please  "THE MILLENIUM"  tial groups as a way to learn about  
Store Hours  Will schedule work around class·  (219) 288-3923  call Autumn @ 284-5024.  A NEW DECADE ...NCE IN TRAV- themselves and support  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  es.Apply at 2307 Edison.  EL.FREE TRIPS.FREE  others.Please call us at 631-7336 to  
- Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  288-4267  LOADED  MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI  get more information.  
Sat Noon-6:00pm  6 Bedrm '00-01 yr.  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN  
Sun: Noon-M,idnight  WANTED:  273-0482 / 234-3831  BALL TICKETS  UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS  AUSTRALIA!  
1 or 2 Jr. or Senior  271-1526  AND FREE MEALS!  SUMMER /WINTER/INTER­ 
classwomen.to host 2  BED 'N BREAKFAST  1800-426-7710  SHIPS/SEMESTER PROGRAMS  
LOST & FOUND  highschoot senior girls wanting to see Notre Dame, hoping to  REGISTRY 219-291-715~  Need two tickets for USC  WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM  www.study-australia.com Contact chris@study-australia.com  
attend.Time starts with lunch at  Please call 4-4784  
University Club Friday October 15  5 bedroom hOuse prime location  Ask for Chuk  WANTED:USCTIX  
LOST A palmpilot. Palm V, extremely  at noon, with a post-pep rally dinner at Carriage House.Includes all day  105 Marquette Ave Available now 232-6964  247-1659  How could Felicity choose Ben?  
important!' If found please call 4­ "tailgate• Saturday in Joyce South &  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ 
0870  any incidental expenses.Other  3,4 & 5 bdrm homes. Tall ceilings,  ETS  Need 3 USC tickets  Why is Nole so upsetting?  
plans welcomed.Contact 219-287­ wash/dry, walk to campus. call tor  277·6619  Please call Tom 634-1440  
1405, leave message.  more info. 289·4365  
WANTED  Browse icpt.com for Springbreak  WANTED­ND football tix.  Need 1 Oklahoma & 1 Navy GA. Gall 4-2535  Same place, same time next week.  
STUDENT OPENINGS  "2000" ALL destinations offered.Trip Participants.Student  FOR SALE  AM ­232-2378 PM · 288-2726  WANTED! 2 pairs of tix and  Rockin' Sorority. Oh yeah.  
5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around  Orgs & Campus Sales Reps want­ Joyce/Stadium parking pass for  
classes. Scholarships avail.  ed.Fabulous parties.hotels & prices.Call Inter-Campus 800·327·  Spring Break SpecialslBaharnas Party Cruise 5 Days $2791 Includes  NO football tix /or sale.  ASU. Call Alex Boyle@ 800-221· 7676 M-F 9-5  Deuce: This 1s going to be my lucky  
www.worktorstudents.com/lN  6013  Meals!  AM -232-2378  night. ·  
282-2357  Awesome  PM -288-2726  NEED 8 OKLAHOMA TIX  
Beaches.Nightlife!Cancun &  sets of 4 or more wanted  
FOR RENT  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  TOPS Paid Colin X1627  Click!  
DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL  $129!springbreaktravel.com  GAMES 2726551  
YEAR!  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  1-800-678-6386  Need 4 Okla GAs  I'm sorry, I thought you were going  
$1200 TO $2000 THIS MONTH.  HOME FOR  Eric 243-3347  to steal my CDs  
Part time 4 to 6 hours per week.  ND-SMC EVENTS.  FOR SALE  BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT- 
Call 24 hrs  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  BALL TICKETS.  Need sets of two or four tickets for  
(219) 239-6709  243-0658.  CALL 271-9412  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289·8048  Navy or USC games. Call Brian at  Booya! I strike again!  
634-3346  

Monday, September 27, l 999 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Palmeiro's grand slam clinches Rangers' AL West title 
Associated Press 
/\HLINGTOI\/. T1•xas 
Th,: Texas Hangers !'inally won thn i\l. W11st on their own. and thl'y did it in grand styl11. 
Hul'aPI l'almciro hil Texas' stir.ond grand slam in as many gamns, pownring Lim Hangers to a I o-:-l victory ov11r tho 011kla11d /\thl11ti1·s· on Sunday that clinl'hnd t!11:ir third divi­sion Lilli' in !'our ypars. 
This was thr• n·rst tinw Texas put itsnll' ov1:r the top. 111 199(1 nnd '1)8, ttw ltangnrs lear,wd Limy wern champs during g,rnws limy PVn11t.ually Josi. 
i\ft.1H· Hyan Christnnson groundr1d out to end th11 gamn, Hustv Crnnr, Tom Goodwin, .Jiran" Gonzal1iz, Hoy1:.e Clayton ,rnd Mark McL6morc locked arms and jumpl'Cl around in a rirt'IP around SP1:011d has11. /\ !'lag was unf'urlnd in center fil'ld rnading: "Tnxas Hung<Ws 
I<J1J1) /\I. Wost Clmrnpions" 
Oakland rame to Thu Ballpark ,wnding a big woek­nml to rr~nrnin in contention for llw playoffs. lnstnad, tlw A's wNn 011tscur<\d :32-11 and ran llrnir losing streak to four, thPir higlwst since late Jun<!. 
Oakland's wild-card hopns an• dim as Boston's magic 1111mlwr dropped to two d(\Spitn Lh«• Hnd Sox losing 8-:i to HaltimorP. 
Todd Z1dln, wilose grand slam h1\lpt•d Texas clinch a tin Saturday, snenrnd to put this gaml' aw,iy with a two-run lionwr that capped a four-run rif'tli inning and ls.nocked out Oakland startPr Kevin Jarvis 
W-l l. 
,.\n inning latt!r, l'al me iro addPd tlw linal touch wlwn his 4Mh lwnwr of tlw ynar drillnd llw right-lfold foul pol1\ and ricodwl.lHI on to tlw fin!d. !\1r:Lmnon• danced honrn from third basn with his arms raised as th,~ Hangnrs rc~achcd double f'iguros in rnns !'or thr. third straight game. 
l'almPiro, who upped his HBI total lo 14(>. calmly troU<id the bases and accept1irl congratu­lations l'rom tiiammates with­out much fuss al'ter his lhird grand slam or the year. 
Mariners 3, Angels 2 
Haul Ibanez Ir.cl off the ninth inning with a honw run to give !.1111 Seattln Mariners a victory over tlin Anaheim Ang1\ls in I.heir final homo game of thn s1iason. 
Tim ganw might have been 
the final home gamf! in Seattle /'or the Mariners' Ken Griffey Jr. and Alex Rodriguez. Both hav11 contracts through the 2000 season, but the Mariners might trade them in the otTsea­son ir the players won't agree to contract extensions. 
Tlwy don't want another Randy Johnson situation on their hands. Thn Mariners wnrn l'orced to trade the dis­gruntled Johnson lo Houston last sPason aft1!r deciding they would not nxtcnd his contract past tlw 1998 seasun. 
lbanPz hit tho first pitch by Sh igctosh i II asega wa (2-6) down lhe line ovor the right­f'irl d l'nnce for his soventh homnr of the s1iason. 
Tom Davey (2-11 struck out the side in tho top of tho ninth for thn Mariuer;;. 
Tlw Mariners took a 1-0 lead in Lhc first on Tom Lampkin's Hl31 single. The Angels went alrnad 2-1 on consncutive dou­bles by Gary DiSarcina and Ilasin Erstad in the third and StPVI! Decker's sacrifice l1y in the /'ourth. 
Sratllc Lied tho score at 2 in tho li!'th on Jay Buhncr's run­scoring single. 
/rnalrnim starter Bamon Ortiz went l'ive innings, giving up two runs on six hits and three walks. 
Hobert Hamsay started f'or the Mariners and gav11 up two runs and five hits in six innings. 
Devil Rays 6, Yankees 5 
Tony Graffanino hit Tampa Bay's tcam•r<!cord seventh double, capping a two-run rally in the eighth inning that l1id the Devil Hays over the ;\/cw York Yankees. 
Bubba Trammel! homered and doublf;d twice as the Devil Hays beat the Yankees for the second straight day after losing their first nine games at Yankee Stadium and 17 of 18 overall to New York. Tampa Bay won consecutive games for the l'irst time since Sept. 3-4 a1a;ainst Minnesota. 
D11nik Jeter doubled to become the second Yankees shortstop ever with l 00 RBIs. lie joined Lyn Lary, who had 107 HBls in 1931. 
Despite the loss, the Yankees' magic number l'or clinching the /\L East was trimmed to three. New York held ils five-game lead over Boston. which lost to Baltimore 8-5. 
llerbert Perry went 3-f'or-3, 

Planning to Studv Abroad? 
svracuse has vour ticket! 
SEE DR. ALEX MEDINA ON 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 FROM 
4 -5:30 PM IN ROOM 204, 
DEBARTOLO HALL. WE CAN 
HELP YOU WITH YOUR PLANS TO 
STUDY AB R1O AD. 
SY RA CUS E rf'~1 
STUDY ABROAD \i,..',...!'l}' 
..... """" 
119 Euclid Aveilloa D Syr•c•••• NY 13l44 800 235 3472 nabroacl@ayr.ed• bttp://aumweb.syr.ed11/dipa 
including two doubles. The Devil Rays were down 5-4 when he opened the eighth with a double off Ramiro Mendoza (7-9) and Mike DiPclice hit a tying single. After l\liguel Cairo's two-oul single, Cra.ffanino doubled. 
Cory Lid le (1-0) earned his l'irsl major league win since 1997 with the New York MHt.s. llis 1998 season for Arizona was cut short by surgery on his right elbow, and he spent most of tbis year on the disabled list. 
Lidie got two outs for the vic­t orv. Roberto Hr;rnandP.z pitdied the ninth for his 42nd save in 46 chances. 
Wilson Alvarez lasted only 1 2-:~ innings for Tampa Bay in his shortest start since April 24, 1998. Yankees starter Andy Petlitte gave up four runs and 10 hits in six shaky innings. 
White Sox 3, Twins 0 
JamPs Baldwin took a shutout into the ninth inning and Chris Singleton and Paul Konerko hit consecutive homers as Lhe Chicago White Sox beat the Minnesota Twins. 
Baldwin (11-13) allowed live hits. three walks and struck out five in eight-plus innings as the White Sox won their sec­ond straight after losing four in a row. 
Baldwin missed a chance for his first shutout in 118 career starts when he was replaced after walking Matt Lawton to lead off the ninth. Bob Howry finished for his 25th save. 
Singleton and Konerko hit solo homers off .Jason Ryan (1­:{) in the sixth to make it 3-0. With one out, Singleton hit a 363-foot shot down the right­field line for his 17th home run. Kone1·ko followed with a 361-foot shot down the left­field line for his 23rd. 
Ryan allowed three runs and nine hits in six innings, but his teammates could not get the big hit. In the second and sev­enth innings, the Twins had a runner on third with one out and couldn't score. 
Chicago scored its first run in the fifth. Brook Fordyce dou­bled off Ryan and, after Mike Caruso struck out, Greg Norton singled up the middle. 
Singleton made a leaping catch at the 408-foot sign in center to rob Corey Koskie of a home run in the fourth. He made another nice play on Midre Cummings' line drive in the sixth. 
Indians 11, Blue Jays 7 
Wil Cordero hit a tiebreaking homer in the ninth inning as the Cleveland Indians spoiled the Toronto Blue Jays' last home game of the season. 
Manny Ramirez drove in a run to reach 160 HBis, the most in the major leagues since Jimmie Foxx had 17 5 in 1938. 
Cordero homered on Billy Koch's (0-5) first pitch of the ninth. The Indians added three more runs in the inning on Roberto Alomar's bases-loaded double. 
Paul Shuey (8-5) pitched a perfect eighth for the win. 
The Indians trailed 7-5 in the eighth when Jolbert Cabrera led off the inning with a single off Graeme Lloyd and Sandy Alo mar Jr. followed with his sixth homer of the season. 
The Blue Jays, who fell to 40­41 at home, have Jost eight -straight home games. 
Cleveland took a 3-0 lead in the first on Ramirez's sacrifice fly, Jim Thome's RB I single and on David Justice's sacrifice 
fly. 
The Blue Jays cut it to 3-2 in the second on Vernon Wells' two-run double. 
Harold Baines hit an RBI sin­gle in the fifth. Tyler Houston's solo homer made it 5-2 in the 
· fourth, but the Blue Jays tied in the fifth on Cruz's RB I groundnut and Tony Batista's two-run single. 
Orioles 8, Red Sox 5 
The Red Sox made three errors leading to seven unearned runs and Albert Belle homered as the Baltimore Orioles del'eated Boston for their 16th victory in their last 18 games. 
The Red Sox magic number for clinching a wild-card berth remained at three games. 
Orioles starter Jason .Johnson (8-7) allowed three runs, lwo earned, and five hits in seven innings to win his fifth straight decision. Jesse Orosco struck out Troy O'Leary with two run­ners on for his 1irst save. 
Errors by No mar Garciaparra, John Valentin, and Jose Offerman led to the unearned runs off Red Sox starter Tim Wakefield (6-11 ), who retired the first 10 batters he faced before Garciaparra's error in the fourth. Belle fol­lowed with his 37th homer to make it 2-1. 
The Red Sox self-destructed in the fifth inning. Charles .Johnson led off with a single ,. and advanced to second when Ryan Minor reached on Valentin's throwing error from third base. 
Jesus Garcia loaded the bases when Offerman, who was covering first base on Garcia's bunt, misplayed pitch­Hr Wakefield's throw. 
One out later, Wakefield hit Brady Anderson with the bases loaded to score Minor. Mike Bordick hit a two-run double and Calvin Pickering followed with a two-run single to make it 7-1. 
Boston's errors weren't limit• ed to their fielders. Manager Jimy Williams put Tom Gordon in to start the ninth, but Gordon was removed bef'ore throwing n pitch becausn he was not on the roster. Gordon returned to the team Saturday from injury rnhabilitation hut remains on the 60-day dis­ablPd list. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 27, 1999
-
RYDER Cup 
Leonard's putt completes incredible comeback 
Associated Press 
BROOKLINE, Mass. 
All Ben Crenshaw asked his Ryder Cup team to do was believe. and the Americans responded with a charge that was simply unbelievable. 
With a birdie pult that was as long as Americn's chances, Justin Leonard took dead aim and finished off the greatest comeback in Rvder Cup history, assuring the 17-inch gold chal­ice a home on U.S. soil for the first time since 1993. 
Victory came on the 17th green, across the street from where rrancis Ouimet lived when he won the 1913 U.S. Open and made golf popular in the United States. This triumph made hAroes out of a U.S. team that pushed aside the dispute over money and won something that proved to he far more valuable. 
"I never stopped believing," a choked-up Crenshaw said after a 14 1/2-13 1/2 victory. ''I'm stunned. This is so indescrib­able." 
Leonard's 45-foot birdie putt unleashed a torrent of emotion that had been building throughout an electric day at The Country Club, where fans cheered every American victory and every missed putt by the Europeans. 
Although one match was still on the course, the putt, fol­lowed by Jose Maria Olazabal's miss, guaranteed the Americans 14 1/2 points, the amount they needed to win, but an amount few believed they would get. 
'This was history being made today, and we all wanted to be a part of that," said Hal Sutton, the rock-solid star of the U.S. team who contributed 3 1/2 points. "This is the greatest moment in golf right now." 
Despite a 10-6 deficit going into the final round, despite the fact no team has ever come back from more than two points on the last day, Crenshaw refused to give in. 
'Tm a big believer in fate," he warned Saturday night, wagging his finger with a wink. 
Believe it1 
Those were fitting words from Crenshaw, who won the 1995 Masters after the death of his longtime teacher Harvey Penick. At the time, he said he felt it was Penick's spirit guid­ing him along. 
In much the same way, Crenshaw willed his team to victory on this course, which has a long history of U.S. victo­ries. 
"It's all because of Ben Crenshaw," Davis Love Ill said. "He fired us up, made us believe we could do it." 
The Ameri.cans overwhelmed Europe in the first six matches, closing all of lhem out before the 17th hole. Even David Duval, who refern~d to the Hyder Cup as an exhibition, sho..,rnd how much it meant by rf>peatedly shaking his lists and cupping his hand to his ear, asking the gallery !"or even mon~ noise -maybe too much noise. 
The Europeans round it excessive, and took exception to the player celebration af'ter Leonard's putt because Olazabal still had a 2:i-foot birdie putt to tie the match and keep alive Europe's fading hop<'s. 
"It's about the most disgust­ing thing I've ever seen," said assistant captain Sam 
Torrance. "This is not sour grapes. The whole American team, and spectators ran right across the green over Olly's line. He still has a putt to tie the hole. We could still take the Hyder Cup home. It was dis­gusting." 
No comeback, however, was as symbolic as Leonard's. He had.never won a Ryder Cup match, and looked as if he had no chance against Olazabal when he trailed by four holes with sevon to play. 
Leonard won the next four holes to square the match. the last one a ~5-footer on the 15th that gave the Americans anoth­er chance when Mark ()'Meara faltered. 
The cup was clinched on No. 17 when Leonard's 45-l"oot birdie putt banged into the back of the cup and dropped. 
Olazabal birdied the 18th to halve the match, but by then the American celebration was well under way. Leonard led the U.S. team in spraying champagnf' around the 18th green where the Stars and Stripes was waving. 
The Americans wound up winning 8 1/2 points out of 12 singles matches, its biggest margin since 1979. The Americans won by a rout that vear but this was different. They· needed every point, every putt. 
Europe, which looked so d-0minant in building what appeared to be an insurmount­able lead, ran out of gas. Jesper Parnevik and Sergio Garcia, 3­0-1 while paired the first two days, were beaten back by David Duval and Jim Furvk. 
It was the first time ail week the 19-year-old Spaniard, the youngest player in Ryder Cup history, couldn't muster a smile. 
Crenshaw hammered home his belief in fate during an emotional team meeting Saturday night in which every player spoke passionately ­even Duval. 
"J told them to go out and kill 'em." Duval said. He did his part, winning six of the first eight holes against Parnevik in a 5 and 4 victory. 
Sutton, rock-solid all week. was holding back tears after he crushed Darren Clarke. 
"My only comments last night were if we do down, let's go down with all our oars in the water," Sutton said. 
They pulled with all their might, tugging against history in waters thickened by pres­sure unlike any other in golf, perhaps in all of sport. 
It was the seventh consecu­tive Ryder Cup that was decid­ed by no more tha.n two points, dating to thn 1985 matches that signaled the switch over to European dominance. 
So close was this TTydor Cup that no team match ended before the 17th hole. the first time that has happened si11c(1 1969. SinglP-s. as usual. was anothP-r matter. 
Tlin Americans ha.vi> won tlw singles m11tches a.II but f"ivP times in Ryder Cup history. and all but twice since 1957. 
The roars that rorkcd Tlw Country Club, from Sutton's first birdie on the second holP of the Sficond matrh to Leonard's clinching birdie putt in the afternoon, carried the Americans to their stunning charge. 
"I 1rnver knew how good it feels to win the Hyder Cup," Tiger Woods said. 
The atmosphere was electric. 
The gallery was a dozen deep around tees and green, not an inch of space along any fairway under brilliant blue conditions. 
All of a sudden, the Americans lookfld as though they had nothing to lose. Muscles tightened on every European face, tho players cel­ebrating with charged-up emo­tion instead of the childlike joy they exuded the first two days. 
"An amazing experience," Tom Lehman said. 
Duval, Sutton, Lehman. Love, Woods and Phil Mickelson led a ferocious charge that made Crenshaw's lineup look like a brilliant move. Ile sent out his best players in lhe first six matches, hopeful they all would get out of the blocks quickly and set up that chain reaction of momentum he had been des­perately searching for all week. 
Did it ever work. 
Lehman. who has never lost a singles match in the Ryder Cup, never missed a green in his 3 and 2 victory over Lee Westwood. 
Sutton never blinkfld when Darren Clarke chipped in for birdie on the first hole. He looked over at his wife and winked, hit to 20 feet on No. 2 and sank the birdie putt, the first of three straight holes he won in a 4 and 2 victory. 
Jarmo Sandelin, Jean Van de Velde and Andrew Coltart made their Hyder Cup debut under the most intense pres­sure. European captain Mark James did a nice job hiding Europe's weakness for two days. but they failed to survive their baptism by fire. 
Mickelson, Love and Woods set them down in order without so much as working up a sweat. Only Woods had some­thing that resembled a strug-gle. He didn't take a lead until question. Montgomerie, the seventh hole, but buried Olazabal and British Open Coltart with a 40-foot chip-in champion Paul Lawrie had con­on the next hole. trol of their matches, and 

Van de Velde had hoped his O'Meara was struggling against match wouldn't get to the last Padraig Harrington. hole, not after what happened Needing only to halve his at Carnoustie. No worries -match, O'Meara made a crucial Love closed him out on the par putt on the 17th, then 14th. chopped the 18th hole to lose 
Still, the improbable come­his match -the first win for back was still very much in Europe all day. 

PulliamJournalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

Russell B. Pulliam 
Pulliam Fellowships Director 
Indianapolis Newspapers 
\kb ,111.:. \\ \\ \\ st.irnc\\ s.co111/p1 I P.O. Box 145 !::-mail· pulliam(a starnc\\s rnrn 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
__..___..__._... -~---•--__,___,........______________..,__ ---------=--w-~----.._......__________________ ___
.,.W_,"'1.,-. 
r 
.. .,, 
EXCITEMENT. 
CHALLENGE. TEAMWORK. 
(AND WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT THIS WEEKEND'S GAME.) 
We're talking about our Financial Advisory Services practice. Not only is it challenging and emphasizes teamwork; it's as entrepreneurial as it's exciting. 
PRESENTATION TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28TH • 7:00PM -9:00PM UNIVERSITY Cl.VB, STADIUM ROOM 
This is an opportunity where you can score big. www.pwcglobal.com/ ocp 
f>R/cEWA'ERHOUsf[CXJPERS I 
Join us. Together we can change the world.sM 
O 1999 l'ric,,-L'W.lterhouscCr,upers. f'ricew,.1tc,houseC,xipen refers to rhe U.S. fimi of Priccwaterhot.15eCoopers and other members ol rhe worldwide PriccwarcrhouseCoopcrs org.inizativn. Pri<:cwatcrhouseCoopers is proud robe an Affirmative ,;crion ,md Equal Opporrunity Employer. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 27, J999 
VOLLEYBALL GOLF 
/N 
Belles stay on top with two wins Team holds at third 
By KATIE McVOY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball 
team improved its conference 
record to 3-0, defeating Alma 
College 3-1 and Adrian College 
3-0 during u doubleheader on 
Saturday. 
The Belles began the after­
noon by facing the Scots. Alma 
came into th11 game with a non­
league record of 5-5. S1,1.int 
Mary's took the first two games. 
The Belles kept the energy . high and the motivation rolling. 
"We talked well," said senior 
Agnes Bill. "We picked each 
other up and were very encour­
aging and motivational.·· 
"I think we played very well," 
junior Victoira Butcko said. 
"When we have the sPrve. we're 
really strong." 
The Belles Jost strength in the 
third game, falling to the Scots 
15-1. 
"We boat ourselves during the 
third game," head coach Randa 
Shields said. "rt wasn't anything 
the other team did." 
However, the home team 
came back to win the t'ounh 
game. 15-7. 
One of the keys to Saint 
Mary's winning games was' 
their defense. As a team, the 
Belles had 47 digs. 
"They're scrappy," Alma head 
coach Penny Allen-Cook said. 
Want to 
"They played defense very well. They hit Vfiry nicely down the line, which hurt us a lot. I think that's what reallv stood out." 
Senior Jayne ·ozboH led tlrn Belles in victory. During the match against Alma she had five kills, one double block and two solo blocks. 
"Javne came out and took the leade;·ship ·role," Shields said. The entire team contributed to the victory. 
Bill had 19 digs for the ganrn and 17 kills. Sophomore Suzanne Martin continued as the Belles setter and one of their hest servers with 37 assists and three aces. 
Victoria Butcko and Angie Mnyer backed up the solid Belles' defense with 15 and 13 digs, respectively. Mary Rodovirh had two aces for the game. 
"We won because everyone gave what we needed to win," Shields said. 
Following the first victory. Saint Mary's shifted focus to its second match. Adrian College,_ another MIAA team. was an important game for the Belles. Not only was it a conference game, but it would show how. well the Belles could keep their focus and concentration. 
Shields refused to be content with their first win, and imme­diately looked to the second game and a victory there. 
"This next game is an impor­tant one," Shields said. "We'll see if we can keep focus and play consistently even though we're tirrd." 
The team led off its first game against Adrian College 18-6) with six unanswered points. Thev went on to win the first gam"e 15-11, then took the sec­ond game 15-7. 
During tho third game, Saint Mary's used its 9-1 advantage to give their starters a rest. The _substitutions performed .. superbly, with the homo team eventually winning l 5-13. 
Hoth teams were evenly 
· matched. They played long vol­leys and had to work very hard to score points, but it was the Belles' defense that stood out a.nd ulimtately led to the victory. "They played very good defense and hit out of the back row very well," Adrian head coach Mike Watkins said. Meyer led the defense with help from Butcko. Meyer had 13 digs for the game. Butcko had eight digs tor the game, two of' which cam!~ at crucial moments. In the second game, Butcko's dig prevented a side out which allows the Belles to win the game on the next serve. Nihill led with 16 kills, Bill had 15 and Ozbolt had 11. Martin had 58 assists for the game. 
write for Sports? 
Call l-4543. 
in MIM rankings 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's golf team held its third place ranking in league standings this week. 
On Saturday, the Belles took second place with a score of 349 at llopP. College's home tournament at Winding Creek Golf Course. 
"We played extremely well. We boat the ·defending champions [Hope] at their home golf course," head coach Theresa Pekarek said. 
The Belles were topped only by Albion College's team score of 335 this week­end. Alma College took third in the tournament, tying with Hope College who shot a 351. 
"When we went into this tournament, Hope was six shots behind us," Pekare'k said. "We knew we had to perform well. And we did." 
Albion leads season stand­ings with Alma Coilege in second and Hope College in fourth place. 
"Everybody played really well," Pekarek said. 
In the tournament's indi­vidual standings, freshman Molly Lee led with a score of 82, taking third in the tour­nament. She was followed by junior Natalie Cook, who 
brought home eighth place, shooting an 88. 
Sophomore Mary Claire Hathaway shot an 89, and Heather Podraza scored 90 on the day to round out the team score. Exhibitors included captain Kyle Veltri, who shot a 94, and Kara Harms, who shot a 109. 
"I've been really proud of my teammates," Leo said. "I was really surprised [with my score]. because I haven't been playing my best lately. Yesterday it just all came together." 
In the list of league lead­ers, Natalie Cook leads her team, ranknd nighth overall. Hathaway follows in ninth place, VRltri is 12th, Podraza is ranked 18th, and Harms is 20th. 
"This wec~k we have to continue what we have done in the past week: focus on our short game and keep up the intensity," Pekarek said. "We've been getting some good quality practice in." 
The Belles' next tourna­ment is Saturday, Oct. 2, hoste-d by Olivet College, at Marshall Country Club. Tee­off time is listed at 1 p.m. 
On Oct. 5, Kalamazoo hosts the fifth tournament of the season, at Prairies Golf Course, beginning at 1 p.m. 
"Hopefully we'll have some success," Pekarek said. 

~ass, Munchies with Monk (and a few more) 
Interested? Find out more. Everyone invited ... 
When: Tuesday, September 28 9:00-10: 15 p.m. Where: Corby Hall (next to Basilica)
For More Info: Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. ANSWER ~ · 1-3087 THECALL ~
www.nd.edu/-vocation
vocation.l@nd.edu 

:pa "wP-W OS LW14P WWW 
-
-........ + 
Monday, September 27, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
_,.... 
NFL 
St. Louis hands Atlanta third straight defeat 

I.he San Diego Chargers.
Associdtcd P re,s 
Thi~ Colts (2-1) trailed 19-13 going into the l'ourth quarter,
ST. LOUIS but. 1\fonning's 18-yard run andForget U1n mad to the Super 
bis 2()-yard pass to TerranceBowl for lite Atlanta Falcons. 
Wilkins brought them back.
Now, it's mort• likn tlw road to Manning completer! 29 of 54
ruin. 
passos in surpassing his previ­
Tlw rnigning NFC clrnmpions ous careor-best of 357 vards set!'nil Lo o-:~ with an ombarrassing last Nov. 29 at Baltim,we. Thisloss to 1.hn St. Louis fl.ams, who was the fiflh 300-yard game in
haw not had n winning record 
his ] 9-gamf: NFL earner.
Lhb dl!cadc. (Juartcrback Kurt Manning broke the previousWanwr proclucncl touchdowns 
franchise rncord ol' 401 yards
1J11 llw lirst rour St. Louis drives by Unilas, s0t for the Baldmorc
and rnn f'or ;1 li['lh scorn in t.lw 
Colts against Atlanta on Sept.
s1•1·oml half' 
l7, 1967, ni110 voars berore
Tlw l{ams (2-0J haw lost lJ<) 
l\fanning was boni.
ga1111•s in t.lw I 9<J(!,s. uut limy 1·aught tiH· l."alcons at the pcr­l'nd time: 1·omi11g off a byn Panthers 27, Bengals 3 agc1inst. a warn with beat-up GnorgP Seifort's seco11d job as skill playf'rs coming off a short an NFL head coarh has turnE'll work w,)1:k. Tbn Rams were in inlo a second chancr: for 1'.ont.rol l'rom liw st.art as they Tshimanga Biakabuwka. <'1tdnd an night-ganH' losing Bothered by injuries and strt>ak lo NFC Wost oppo11cnLs inconsistency since Carol.ina and a l'our-g,mH~ losing s1rnak made him a first-rounrl draft against /\tlanta. choice in 1')96, Biakabutuka 
In addilion to llrn game, tlw broke the Panthers' record for · htlcons lost quarterback Chris the longest run from scrini­Cha11dl11r, who rl)injurocl Urn mage. Less than two hours i-ight hamstring that kept him later, he broke it again, out of Monday night's loss at Biakabutuka bolted for a 62-Redskins 27, Jets 20 !Jallas. Chandl!'l', who was 5-yard touchdown on Carolina's The Skins (2-1) got three l'Dr-1) for 28 yards and an inter­tirst play from scrimmage, then short touchdown runs from NFL ('.(lption, was injurnd late in the added a 67-yard scoring run to 
scoring leader Stephen Davis first half without contact while help the Panthers to a victory and three sacks by Kenard scrambling. ov<-ff woeful Cincinnati. Lang.Carolina (1-2) won for the 
Plus all that help from the Tigers 20, Jaguars 19 rirst time undt1r Seifert, ·who injury-ravaged Jets, who have joined the Panthers .in the off­gone from AFC title game loser
Neil O'llonnell threw a 12­season after eight successful in 1998 to 0-3.
yard touchdown pass to Michael years in San Francisco.
!loan with J:2(i lnf't t.o lil't the New York took a 17-13 lead Titans lo a rain-drnnchcd victo­on Curtis Martin's 3-yard run to ry ov<ir tlrn Jacksonville Ravens 17, Browns 10 cap a seven-play, 73-yard drive, .Jaguars. Stoney Case scored two touch­and John Hall's 37-yard field Temwssnn ( 3-0 l won its l'ourth downs in his first start at quar­goal with 8:10 to go. gamn in fi_vp years at terback for Baltimore, and the On an 80-yard drive that .JacksonvillP (2-1 ) and its ninth team formerly known as the ended with a 4-yard go-ahead 
straight against AFC Cnnlral Cleveland Browns beat the run by Davis, cornerback Ray opporwnts to gain an 1~arly, and expansion version. Mickens was called for two pass suq1rising, jump on tlw division. Tlw Browns (0-3) hoped to interference penalties. The first . 
Al'tPr Tcnrn•ss,11• took th1: 20-providn the city ol' Cleveland a cost Lhe Jets 35 yards when he 17 li>ad. Mark Bru,wll drovP the mPnsurn or reveng(~ against bumped Michael Westbrook, the .Jaguars lo tlw Temwsscl' 3. but Model[. who rnovnd the fran­other nullitled a stop on third tlw drivl' 1111dPd \.Vilnn Samari c.his<• to Baltimore al'ter the 
down when he held Albert llolll' oull,\apPd KP('li.tll J-<)95 season. Connell. r-,kC:ard1-ll on third-and-goal for lnstnad. Moclnll watched an lntPJTP)ll.ion in tlw (:<irm•r of' Baltimorn record its lirst victory Seahawks 29, Steelers 10 I.Ill' PIHi ZOii!'. umlPr !mad roach Brian Billick. 
The Seahawks scored the first Four plays latPr, punter Craig The Rarnns were 16-33-1 since two times they touched the ball IIP11trich look an intPntional Llw move and have yet to enjoy on Merton Hanks' 23-yard safoty 111J fourth down to run out a winning snason, but this game interception return and Charlie llw i:i1wk and Pml tlw ganrn. was l!:n-ibly important to ModeII 
Rogers' team-record 94-yard,md his struggling franchise. 
punt return in romping over the Tlw Havens {l -2) held rookie
Colts 27, Chargers 19 Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Tim Couch to. 37 yards passing
l'<·yLon Manning playod a Todd Peterson made a club­marv1dous ganH· ol' µass-a11d­through three quarlers and record rive field goals, four in overcanrn thre11 interceptions by the first half, and Seattle's
rati'.11 1Nith Marvin llarrison. 
Caso. who was morn of a threat
supplanting .lohnny Unitas in defense held Jerome Bettis to lfw Coils' r(!i:ord book and 1m tlw ground thau through the 39 yards. The defense constant­air -he ran I !'times for 57
t•mbarrassing orrn of the NFL's ly set up scoring opportunities lwsl defo11s1is. yards. for an offense that led by two The victory was also particu­
Manning passed for a fran­touchdowns before it ran its larly enjoyable for Baltimore first play from scrimmage.
i:l1is11-rncord 404 yards and two /'ans. many of whom were The Steelers (2-1) flashed
touchdowns. and had his l'irst t·an\nr rushing touchdown as angered because Cleveland got hack offensively to their season­an expansion team three years
tho Indianapolis Colts blow a ending five-game losing streak I0-0 !,~ad. then rallied Lo stun after losing the Browns. . of last season. They didn't pene­
Cmbrac.tfl<j I.he season, 
~ whik indulging in Lhe festivity of the harvest. ~•-!"'"" ~· ~~.\?rins introduces dining in the true spirit of Notre Dame. -· · ·,•!, Presenting menus that compliment the fall season 
~,~ . 
. ·)· !:Vith the finest foods it has to offer. Be our guest ,r · -;1 .at Sorins and celebrate a change in dining. 
~1"·.:...., 
' (___ I 
·~~,, isit us within The Morris Inn. 
,:v.;1,1,--t 
j 
trate inside Seattle's 38-yard line until late in the third quar­ter and their only points came in the fourth quarter. 
Bills 26, Eagles 10 
Looking to smooth their sput0 tering offense and plug the gap­ing holes in their defense, the winless Philadelphia Eagles accomplished neither in a loss to the Buffalo Bills. 
Steve Christie kicked four first-half field goals, Doug Flutie threw a 15-yard touchdown pass to Jay Riemersma and Antowain Smith capped the scoring with a 4-yard run late in the third quarter for the Bills, who had 377 yards to 169 for Philadelphia and posted their first shutout since 1992. 
Pederson, playing with a bruised throwing shoulder, completed 14 of 26 passes for 137 yards wilh no interceptions. But two sacks resulted in lost fumbles. Pederson was replaced by Donovan McNabb with 11 :43 to play. He also had limited suc­cess (6-of-11, 34 yards). 
Chiefs 31, Lions 21 
Anyone from the Detroit Lions trying to talk Barry Sanders out of retirement should hide this game film from him. 
Detroit's patchwork offensive line spent much of the day get­ting whipped by Kansas City's defense as the Chiefs seized a 24-7 lead en route to a victory that kept the Lions from their first 3-0 start since 1980. 
The Lions (2-l) appeared to miss their superstar running back, who unexpectedly retired at the beginning of training camp, for the first time. 
In their first six possessions. the Lions were sacked three times, had a pass batted down, were penalized twice and punt­ed five times. The Detroit offense onlv seemed to come to life on a f1~w big plays that led to their lhree TDs, including one with only 2:11 to play. 
Elvis Grbac threw two touch­down passes as the Chiefs (2-1 ), who were down to lheir third­team halfback throughout the second half, won their second in a row and got TDs from four different players. 
Bucs 13, Broncos 10 
Tampa Bay's defense lived up to its ranking as the stingiest in tlrn NFL, prPying on Brian Griese's inexperience in the closing minutes to hold off the winless defending Super Bowl champions for a victory over the Denver Broncos. 
The Bucs defense once again saved the day for an offense that's had problems scoring. 
Denver became the first defending Super Bowl champi­Qn to begin a season with three straight losses in a non-strike year. The New York Giants started 0-5 in 1987 following a Super Bowl championship sea­son, but three of those losses were with replacement players. 
But no reigning champs have ever dug themselves out of a deeper hole to successfully defend their title. 
Davis failed to gain 100 yards for the third straight game. picking up 53 on 19 carries. and Griese failed to lead the Broncos to a first down on two possessions in the final 4:08. 
The Bucs (2-1) intercepted Elway's successor once. setting up one of Martin Gramatica's two field goals, and the Denver quarterback was sacked twice on the last two drives. 
Panthers 23, Vikings 20 
Favre led the Green Bay Packers to another thrilling comeback win, hitting Corey Bradford with a 23-yard touch­down pass with 12 seconds left and giving the Packers a victory over the Minnesota Vikings. 
Bradford's catch capped a 77­yard, 104-second drive led by Favre. who beat the Oakland Raiders in Week 1 with a simi­lar last-ditch march. It was Favre's 12th fourth-quarter comeback and the 15th game­winning drive of his career. 
Favre's final pass came on a. fourt!J-and-J play, and Green Bay had no timeouts remaining. Favre said he didn't call a play but simply took the snap and threw toward Bradford, who bumped Jimmy Hitchcock at the line of scrimmage and ran on a. full sprint toward the end zone. 
Raiders 24, Bears 17 
An underachiever in New York and a reject in Miami, Tyrone Wheatley fits quite nice• ly on ·an Oakland Raiders team that takes pride in its history of resurrecting castoffs. 
Wheatley scored on an 8-yard run with 6:45 remaining and tho Raiders overcame five lost fumblfis to defeat the penalty­ridden Chicago Hears. 
-' 

:-------------------------------~~ 
Monday, September 27, 1999
page 18 U1e Observer . SPORTS 
has plagued the offense all
CROSS COUNTRY 
season. The two shutout loss­
M. Soccer 
es this weekend bring the squad's scoring total to five
continued from page 20 
goals in eight games. of his nine saves came in the Gordon scored the game
Belles take eighth in MIAA meet 

Come to the informational meeting 
. Work in an internship 
. Study Public Affairs Tuesday, October 5th 
. Fulfill Fine Arts Requirement 
7:30 p.m. 126 DeBartolo Hall 

. s .
UJgtmJ ~ emester lh'Jlfl4m 
Open to students from ALL Colleges 
Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy -631-50 I 6 
Peri.E.Arnold.J@nd.edu 

By MOLLY McVOY 
Assistant Sporrs Editor 
The Belles' cross-country team ran to eighth place Saturday in their first all-league meet. 
Calvin College, last season's national champions, won the MIAA Jamboree, with Hope College and Albion College fol­lowing in second and third place. 
The meet provided Saint Mary's with its first look at the entire league. 
"This was our first chance to run against other MIM teams. so now we know where we stand in the conference," junior Genevieve Yavello said. 
Yavello finished 52nd in the meet with a time of 21 :03. This was one place behind Melissa 
WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish place 12th in Fossum Invite 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team concluded play Sunday at the annual Michigan State Mary Fossum Invitational, slipping from eighth to a 12th-place finish· ing following final-round action at the par-72, 5, 780­yard Forest Akers West Golf Course. 
Notre Dame stood in a three-Miller. Saint Mary's highest fin­isher who had a time of 21:05. 
The Belles went into Saturday's race without two of their top runners, senior Melissa Goss and sophomore Bridget Nugent. 
Goss has been suffering from shin-splints all season and was unable to run. 
Miller said that although the Belles' final place in the meet ·was disappointing, their individ­
ual times are improving. 
"Everybody's personal goals 
have bc,en met," she said. "It just 
looked like all the other teams 
have improved a lot too." 
Winning the race was Jenny Ernst from Hope College. She ilnished with a time of 18:25. 
Calvin College's runners took 
second thruough sixth places to 
clincq their victory. The last 
way tie for eighth after Saturday's opening round 
(321) and completed the sus­pended second round on Sunday morning with a dissa­pointing total of 3.33 in the play-six, count-four format. The Irish then closed with a 325 in Sunday's third and [foal round for a 979 tournam1rnt total, just four strokes behind Illinois in the 18-team event. 
Irish junior Shane Smith cooled off after an opening 
place finisher crossed the finish line within 12 seconds of Erinn 
Boot, their highest finisher. 
As has been common this sea­son, Saint Mary's runners fin­ished very close to one another as well. The final three runners scoring for the Belles, Krista Hildebrand, Catherine Ward, and Megan Tenney, finished 64th, 77th and 80th, respective­ly. 
The Bf'lles do not face league teams until the championships at the end of the season. Until then, they hope to improve their times overall and think this will make a big difference. 
"Basically, one runner would have mad a big difference [Saturday]," Miller said. "We're right there. Basically, we're just going to try to improve our times." 
round 76, finishing with rounds of 84 and 81 for a 241 total and a share of 33rd fn the 108-player field. 
Notre Dame sophomore Kristin McMurtrie again played three consistent rounds, tying for 47th with a 244 total (82-80-82). Juniors Danielle Villarosa (84-82-85) and Mary Klein each finished at 251, with Klein bouncing back from a pair of 87s to close with a 77. 
first half. 
In Sunday's matchup, the Gaels of Saint Mary's capital­ized on a home-field advan· tage and upended the Irish 2-0. 
Coming away with only their second victory in nine games, the Gaels scored twice late in the second half for the win. 
Despite outshooting the Gaels 13-7, the Irish failed to capitalize on any opportuni­ties. 
With a talented front lirrc that has delivered plenty of shots on goal this season, Notre Dame's lack of scoring 
Lessons That Will Last A Lifetime. 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Put that college degree to use by enrolling into the Air Force Officer Training School. Upon successful completion of the OffrcerTraining School, you ·will become a commissioned Air Force officer with earned respect and benefits like -great starting pay, medical and 
dental care, management and travel 
AIM HIGH opportunities. For more on how to qualify-.AIR-~ and get vour career soaring with the -falCE-Y---Air Force OfficerTraining School. call 
1-800-423-USAF, or visit our website at www.airforce.com 
www.airforce.com 
Recycle the Obsel"Vel" 
winner off of a cross from the left side from Oscar Bueno at the 78:41 minute mark. 
Cota dashed any hope of an lrish victory with just three minutes left in the game, when be delivered a shot from the right corner to give the Gaels a 2-0 edge. 
Irish forward Andrew Aris led the offense in its scoring atlempts with five shots on goal. 
Despite allowing two goals, short withstood the Gael attack most of the game, coming up with five saves on the afternoon. 

--~~--•-..---------•WPI»-----..------~~----_.__,___..___________..._.,___________,,~~------------------:=­
Monday, September 27, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
-----~---------~---------------------------------------------------------­
FOURTH AND INCHES 
l)olll'~ Woi.~'l, i::ATe., -::mis 1-lE-Fi',.{l~itC:..AI.L.', :tsij.1" illE.\,J',01t..s-r () AtJc.E S!:iMt(.\-\-ro ~\If:.~'{ Wi+E.tE E.\/Et, R~l"-El-'lsU i11£0IJE ~\.\Et~ -ri:tE. G.vY. L.05i;r 
7"1iE. 1\C.~f:T5~ 
Fox TROT 
Cl l9El'J Bili Ame.M/0151 J.'Y UfliVlll~ Press ~ndic;ite
PETER, You COO\..DlfT 'YOU WANT You To Do OIAP'TER 
Ole:, Cl.ASS, '1lf1S WEEl<El'lt> 
WHAi WAS
HA'w'E A. J\l~i f·MAIL,. US 
THAT, SIi~?
CiCJESTION? Tt/lS, So WE DoN'rONE, PRoBl.EMS 8-12,15, 17, 
HA'IE To 13oTHER
l'f, 2'i, 2'5, 30 • 1.fo AN[) li2. 
.J 
-' 
TOM KEELEY 
AWQ fJo,-t+IN'i, l.11<.E 
·no., \S e,01N<:, '"t'o 'HM'PEN .,-0N1c,\\,, f.16~1 ::roRo~N~ ••• "J'O~Of>,~~ 
BILL AMEND 
WELL, t\E CER· HoW AM I TA11iLY S1Ml'L1f1EO Slll'PoSED To lHING'i FoR Do EVERY 'toll, MR. E•MAIL. f'RoBI.EM IN 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
1~ 1s WEEK.-.. w~ L AUNvH AN /N l?EFTH 
LOO/<'.-A1 -nfl5 (,RAZ.'( e, /Reus CALLED 
..... Lo V£ A-r NOTRE DAME~ 
-n,pAy~ cN&INt::1:µ.$ 
-r,,t-1 •s, 'o FUN AT 5'(fz:::~! 
HERE. 17'S 'ft-le MOL(!"C.ULAP-s·owcruRE OF 
Tf2.ICHl.t11l.lt: AC/b, 
;rr-n
I I 11 
AP\J,b,.NTA6E:S: supr;; fl.lol?... 1NTet.,<.Eci,S. UNIG.\JE fA5HlaN 5E:'N5G, WILL. po 1'ou~ CA(..C:.U I-U5" f'OF-you. 
1'1SAl>IIAHT~E5~ Go soc. lALL"( /NE:Pi rHA-r 
TH~y~?,G PARN Ne:A~ AOO!<Al3LG'. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 3S Dosage unit 66 Stumbles 36 Caribbean 67 Query before 
1 Ayatollahs' 
music "Here goes!" 
predecessors 
39 Ovine utterance 6 Gunslinger's 
40 A major, maybe 
command DOWN
41 Hydrocarbonf0"Oh, my1" 
suffix 
1 "Out1" 14 Hooded snake 42 Paris recreation 
2 Balderdash 15 Othello's false area 3 Strong of bodyfriend 44 Lucy's partner and mind 
16 'Tm --youl" 45 Part 3 of the quip 4 Charlemagne's50 Entanglement11 Start of a quip realm: Abbr. 
51 Encumbrances20 Summer shirt, s Early Greek lyric 52 One who grins informally poetand bears it21 Mallards' homes 6 1934 quintupletss Greek S22 Metric volume 7 Forcefully stuff, 56 Biol., e.g. 
23 Place for a 45 as a throat 
59 End of the quip 
24 Clinch, as a deal B Turkish generals 
62 Novelist Waugh 25 Part 2 of the quip 9 Took the trophy 
63 Tallow source 32 Son of Venus 64 Words before 
10 Chin beard 11· --and for all 33 Stiff denial sight and mind 34 Old polit. cause 
65 Entanglement 12 Move 13 Place for a run 18 Warner Bros. 
creation
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
19 Resort island off Naples Puzzle by Nathaniel Weiss

-=+=+.:..+'+'=-i 23 Word ,n a price 31 "Don't mince 49 Captivate 56 ---good words'" example
52 Defraud 25 "The 36 Oration 57 Oaf
53 It may be spun 
Terminator" 37 Henry Kissinger 
58 Conjectural
woman biographer 54 Half of binary 26 Yemeni's Marvin code 60 Ethnic suffix neighbor 
38 Canine cry 61 "So--me!"
55 Disparagement 43 Thickness 28 Play --with 44 Radio staff, for (damage) short 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 29 Belgian 46 On/off--are available by touch-tone phone: composer 47Tourist 1-900-420-5656 (95C per minute). Guillaume attractions Annual subscriptions are available for the --+--t--r-i 30 Newspapers, 48 Prefix with best of Sunday crosswords from the last L E E R Y KE D S RYAN with "the" spherical 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ---------------------------­
Address --------~-----------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS situation. 00 DAY: David Carradine, Jesse Jackson, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You Sigourney Weaver, Chevy Chase can make changes if you are willing 
Happy Birthday: This is not the to upgrade or take on a challenge that time to sit back and let others do all will teach you as you work. You need the work. You need to face each day to talk to those who can give you making use of your hands-on exper­an objective view of your situation. tise if you really want to get things 00000 done properly. You have the know­LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You how and the drive to make things may want to make a residential happen, so stop sitting around wait­change. Be sure that you don't back ing for others to do the work. If you yourself into a corner by spending will just take the initiative, you will more than you can rightfully afford. finally find yourself in a leadership 000 position. Your numbers: 4, 14, 23, 32, S€0RPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Try 36, 41 to be more flexible in your personal 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your ideals. Get involved in hobbies that energy must be directed into your will take your mind off unwarr,rnted work. You will shine and will impress suspicions. You can bet that your others if you do more than what mate will not be happy with your your boss asks for. Advancement is jealous attitude. 000 forthcoming. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You Don't lel problems that a co-worker will be emotional regarding the has interfere with your project. You changes in your personal relation· may need to summon the help of a ship. Don't sit back feeling sorry for third party in order to complete the yourself. Get out and get active. 000 job. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): will have plenty of activity going on You need a change. Take a look at around your home. Get those cup­yourself and the direction that your boards cleaned out and the walls life is taking. Think about th<' possi­painted. The renovations will lift your bilities of making a residential move spirits. 000 or a career change. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You involvement with large groups will need to look into making changes to play a major role in your changing vour living arrangements. You must attitude. Your partner may not be stand up for your rights. F~males in mo;:ing in the same direction that you your home may cause friction. 00 are.0000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put your will meet new friends or lovers efforts into your work and career through relatives or family gather­advancement. Your personal life will ings. You should consider taking a 
• 
be in shambles if you have tried too trip that will bring you the long over­
hard to hold on to your dream. You due rest and relaxation you need. 
need to take a realistic look at your 0000 
Birthday Baby: You will go after whatever it is you want with vengeance. You must learn to be cautious in order to avoid unnecessary mishaps. You have the ability to reach any goal that you set for yourself, but you must learn that. shortcuts rarely pay off. 
(Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or www.eugenialast.com.) 


r---=---------------~---------------------------------~-­
~ 
. 

Big Mac Attack 
Cardinal slugger Mark McGwire tightened up the home run race this weekend, hitting his 60th against the Cincinnati Reds. 
page 12
PORTS 
THE . page 20 OBSERVER Monday, September 27, 1999 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish pick up two conference wins over weekend 

By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Spores Editor 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team left New Jersey on Sunday with a 6-2 record and its third Big East wins of the season. 
The Irish trip to tho Garden State yielded a 4-2 win over Seton Hall on Friday and a 4-0 shut out of' Rutgers on Sunday. 
The Irish got goals from four dif­forcnt play{'rs in the victory over the Pirates. Senior All-American Jen Grubb opened the scoring for Notrn Dame in the 14th minute. After junior All-Americau Anne Makinen was fouled bv the Pirates just outside the box, Grubb lined up for a free kick. 
The captain fired the ball into the net from 22 yards out for her sec­ond goal of the season. Grubb's previous goal had also come off a free kick. 
The Irish struck again the in 19th minute. Jr,nny Streiffer picked up her first point of the weekend when she dribbled through the Pirate midfield and dropped a pass to senior forward Jenny Heft. 
Heft collected the pass and fired the ball into the lower right corner of the net for her third goal of the year to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
Streiffer got another assist in the 51st minute. Streiffer won the ball along the right sideline and crossed the ball to junior \1eolis Erikson. Erikson flipped over backwards and bicycle kicked the ball into the net for her second goal of the sea­son. 
Following Erikson's goal. Seton Hall battled back. In the 54th minute, preseason Big East offen­sive player of the year Kelly Smith took a Dana Sheffer pass behind the Irish defense and scored from just inside the box. 

Ten minutes later the Pirates scored again to cut the Irish lead to a single goal. Smith hit Frauke Dittel with a pass 18 yards from the goal that Diitel converted into Seton Hall's second goal of the game. 
For the final 27 minutes, the Irish defense shut down the Pirate attack. While allowing just two shuts in the remainder of the half. Notre Dame's defense also set up the final goal of the game. 
Freshman defender Vanessa Pruzinsky cleared the ball to fellow freshman Nancy Mikacenic in the 74th minute. Mikacenic lofted a pass to Anne Makinen who volleyed the ball into the net from 15 yards away. 
Makinen picked up her second goal of the year in her first game back with tlrn Irish after training with the Finnish National team. Her involvement with the national team caused her to miss the last four Notre Dame games. 
Makinen got another goal for the Irish on Sunday in their 4-0 defeat of the Scarlet Knights. Freshman Ashley Dryer and Streiffer assisted on Makinen's game winner in the 16th minute. Makinen dribbled through two defenders and fired a shot that beat goalkeeper Angel lladaway. 
Grubb added her second free kick goal of the weekend in the 34th minute to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. The Irish added another goal four minutes later when Streifl'er was fouled in the box by Uchenna Bright. Streiff'er converted the penalty kicked into her fifth goal of the year. · 
In the 53rd minute, Erikson scored her third goal of the year. She took a pass from Streiffer and dribbled through the box before shooting from five yards out to close the Irish scoring on the day. 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Losing skid reaches three games on western roadtrip 
the confidence of a 6-0 record He recorded the final goal By KERRY SMITH and didn't look back as they shut unassisted at the with four min­Spores Writer out the Irish 3-0. utes remaining on the clock. 
Torero forward Rvan Coiner Coiner's three goals against the 
The Notre Dame men's soccer provided the offensiv"e spark for Irish marks the first time since 
team ended its three-game away San Diego, tallying all three goals the 1995 season that an oppo­
stand the same way it began. for his first-career hat trick. nent has scored a hat trick in a 
Dropping two games this week­Coiner's first goal came at the game with Notre Dame since end at the Saint Mary's 10-minute mark when he took Medufia Kulego's three-goal per­Tournament in Moraga, Calif.. advantage of a pass from mid­formance for St. John's. the Irish are riding out a three­fielder Brian O'Connor to put the Notre Dame had offonsive trou­game losing streak that has given Toreros on the board. ble throughout the game. manag­the team a 3-4-1 overall record. The game stood at 1-0 until late ing to put only six shots on goal 
The Irish took the field against in the second half, when Coiner compared to San Diego's 17. 
San Diego in an unsuccessful exploded offensively, scoring Despite the loss, Irish goalkeep­effort Friday and fell to tourna­twice within five minutPs in the er Gerick Short turned in a per­ment host Saint Mary's on last 10 minutes of play. sonal record-setting performance 
Sundav. Coiner's second goal came off with a career high nine saves. Six KEVIN DALUM/The Observer The· Toreros of San Diego of an assist from Garrett Turk at Andrew Aris and the Notre Dame men's soccer team entered into Friday's contest with the 81:14 minute mark. . see M. SOCCER/page 18 lost twice during this weekend's roadtrip. 
.. 
ac Bechel College Volleyball vs. Wifird Laurier vs. Georgetown 
.
s~ 
Today, 4 p.m vs. Hope College Friday, 7:05 p.m. i:;riday, 7:30 p.m . 
"
SPORTS f!J ~ ~ 
Wednesday, 6:30 p.m. 
ATA 
vs. Eastern J\1ichigan Volleyball Cross Country vs. Oklahoma Wednesday, 7 p.m. vs. Wesr Virginia· Norrc Dame lnvirarional ~ Saturday, I :30 p.m. 
~ ~..
GLANCE • •Friday, 8 p.m. Friday, 2: 15 p. rn. 



