Putt-Putt anyone? 
Focus on stereotypes 
South Bend offers recreational opportunities 
ln Focus takes an in-depth look at 
Wednesday
students may not he utlizing. Scene reviews 
stereotypes ofblack athletes on campus. 
three local miniature golf courses. 
page 7 
SEPTEMBER 15, 

page 15-16 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII N0.17 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Saint Mary's students face parking problems 
up. Commuting students may park Many of the students upsnt
"[The student body}
By NELLIE WILLIAMS The 420 parking spaces in either the lot by the Sci!mce about Urn policy are student Nrws Writtt available in the lot aro not needs to be more Hall or the McCandless Lot teachers and off-campus stu­(mough f'or all tlrn cars regis­understanding and and resident students may not dents. Melissa Gornik. a senior ;\t 10 p.m. 011 Sunday, lerml on campus. park in any other lot beside who will be student teaching
willing to make sacr(fices
1:rancnsca lJel'alma was faced There arn 508 residence the Le [\fans and McCandless next semester, is concerned with a dilnmna. VPhicles and 157 off-campus to inco,wenience during lots. about the hike to to her class­
With no spols availablu in vehiclm; rngistered with secu­this process." Chlebek said that nne reason es. lh1\ McCandlPss stud1!11t park­r iLy, according to Hidrnrd for the new parking policies is "The walk is not so bad now ing l()l north of' Angnla /\thl!'tic Chlclrnk. director of security at because or campus changes and won't be so bad in the
Richard Chlebek
Facility, slrn could leave her Saint Mary's. and renovations that will take spring," she said, "bul in tho rar i11 llw Le Mans parking lot The lack of parking spaces director of security place on campus this year. winter it will be." aud !'act) a pott:ntial tickol, or forces students to make a deci­"[The student body] needs to A commuting student, slw can wakn up at 7 a.m. to sion between facing a ticket or be more understanding and Shannon Root, is .also con­
year to the administration 
movP thn car. parking illegally in tlrn lot. willing to make sacrifices to cerned about parking far away
about parking problems. Over
Nnith11r choice appcalnd to "I've noticed a general trend inconvenience during this from her class buldings in the
the summer, the administra­
lwr. that every night when I come process," Chlebek said. "There winter. While there was noth­
tion took the recommendations
"I didn't want to move it at back, I drive around and can't have been a few complaints -ing that was really bothering
and implemented some of lhe 
night b11causn il was raining, find any spots," DePalma said. an individual looking at their her about the parking right
new parking policies.
and I don't lih walking by A committee comprised of situation and not looking at now, "ask me again when we
The new parking policies do
mys,•11' in thn dark," Del'alrna studnnl body members, faculty the whole community on cam­have five feet of snow," she
not allow sludents to park in
said. "\1y first class isn't until and the student body president pus, even though changes have
the Le Mans parking lot from 7
10, and·, didn't want lo wakn gave recommendations last affected everyone."
a.m. until 7 p.m. on weekdays. see PARKING/page 4 

Rampersad: Interest grows in black bios 
By MIRAHEL MOREY 
New, Writer 
i\r11old Ha1111wrsad, a Stanl"orcl UniVPrsity profossor, spokn Tuesday 011 /\l'rican-Anwrican biographies at lh!1 l'irst lncturn ol' the Josnph M. IJulTv l.ncturn SPriPs. 
orily in tlw past century havn any full-s,·.alt\ AJ'ril:an-Anrnrican biogra­ph ins appP,trPd, HampPrsad said. Beginning modestly with Franklin llouglas as till' subject of most biograp hii's, th f' rn is now an "unprt\cndPntnd intnrnst in the black man," lw said. 
Tlw main challnngn or /\l"rican­/\merican bio.graphi!\S is lo "find tlrn .-\frican-Anwrican lil'n interHsting in its 1:0111pl11xitins and normalcy." 
HampPrsad Pxplornd what makes an authentic /\frican-Anwrican biog­raphy'? IIn also asked. can only an /\l'rican-ArnPrirnn justly portray the lifo of anollwr African-/\merican'! 
It is tlw equation of a guod biogra­phy: km'ping an idnnlificational and judg1•m1•11tal distam:11 l'rorn this mix of social sci1\nce and art will ulti­nialn I y cl !iem au then ti city, Hampersad said. 
BiogrnphiPs ani n. "lesser form of' hislory," Hampersucl said, because limy arc a myswrious mix of "both social scirrncn and art." 
llistory in university life has a v11stod inlcrost in Llack culture, anti hoperully thn viowpoi11t is changing alongside this Clltnmunity. It was only aftor Worl<l War II I.hat biogra­phies of' African-1\mericans weni even presented, and even then it was only because African­Americans have a "freedom to choose a lifn and write about it," said Hampersad. 
The public was not interpsted in black America until Jackie Robinson became MVP in th11 National League. Robinson, according to Hamporsad, led the way to modern culturn's own fascination with 
African-American athletes and entertainers such as rvtuhammed Ali. Tina Turner and Michael Jordan. 
With the biggest challenge of /\l'rican-American biographies being 

Arnold Rampersad spoke on the challenges of African-American biographies last night. According to Rampersad, Jackie Robinson was one of the first African-Americans to fascinate the public. 
to "find the African-American life inlercsting in its complexities and normalcy." Rampersad. every gen­eration "needs to reexamine the past and write their own biogra­phies." 
11 bid for SMC frosh elections 
By KATIE MILLER News Writer 
Competition for Saint Mary's l'reshman class elections will be tougher than usual due to an unusually large pool. 
Eleven tickets are running for thn president and vice president or the Class or 2003. Another 18 women contend for tho 13 class board positions. 
The freshmen have more candidates run­ning than any class in reeent history, accord­ing to Chrissie Renner, elections commission­er. 
Prior to the campaign launch. one-rourth of the freshmen class showed interest in holding an office in the student government. More than 100 students attended the tw<i mandato­ry informational meetings held to explain the roles of student government officials. 
Renner said she is excited that so many freshmen are interested in getting involvnd regardless of lheir experience in high school student government. 
"Everyone is starting off on a clean slate," Renner said. 
In addition to corning up with promising platforms, the freshmen candidat11s must be creative. 
According to Renner, each candidate was only allowed to spend $25 on campaigning supplies such as posters and candy. Henner said that the candidal!-is have been V!iry resourceful. 
There will be a canopy set up in front of' the dining hall for tho Wednesday elections. Voting will take place between 7 a.m. ­9 a.m., 11 a.m. -2 p.m. and 5p.m. -7 p.m. Freshmen will vote for one president and vice president and will be asked to choose 13 or fewer of the candidates for the class board. 
In order for a ticket to win, it must take 50 percent of rlass votes plus one individual vote. 
'The chance of a run-off is almost definite because them am so many candidates," Renner said. 
The run-off will take place Monday; voting times will remain the same. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 
My Body ls a 


Temple 
"My body is a temple, not to be defiled by the sacreligious act of consuming alcohol." It is exactly one year since I uttered these words. Yes, it was my 21st birthday then, and I 
did not celebrate it in the fashion that most of my associates do. However. since that time, my attitude toward alcoholic beverages has changed slightly (partic­ularly after my first experi­ence with MadDog 20/20). 
What can be said about the past year? Indeed many 
C.R. "Teo" Teodoro 
Illustrations Editor 
events have Lranspired since the 21st anniver­sary of my birth. Both of my siblings started col­lege. I got promoted to my current position here at the Observer. I made the Mighty Fruity Muscle Pants a fashion statemrnt on campus. l took my first classes in design. I realized my des­tiny as an SDI-I student manager. President Clinton got busted over his affair with Monica Lewinskv. There was a terrible shootout at Columbi;1e H.S. in Middleton, Colo. "Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace" opened in the­aters nationwide. Mv mother found a friend on the Internet, met him in real life, dated him for a few months, got engaged, and finally married him just last month. I went to my first rave. r met some new friends from Australia. I even got a haircut or two over the past year. 
It would also be. correct to say that there are many things I have learned over this past year as well. I learned that being 21 usually just means that you get to make the beer runs. I learned that my mom is better at getting a date than I am. I now know why typography is so important. I was able to pick up on HTML over the summer. I discovered how rewarding service to the community really is. I finally realized that I have lost one of my best friends, possibly for good. Some people don't really like pierced tongues. Being evil is fun. 
I finally found out the name of that really cute girl over there. I learned that new kung fu form. I also learned that my kung fu still really sucks. I fmally got all the words to the theme song of Shaft. I learned that being a third level elemen­tal cleric in the AD&D DarkSun campaigi1 really isn't that cool because elemental clerics don't have major access to the healing sphere. I also learned that while a Lancer with both Jump Level 8 and Jump Height 8 abilities are pretty good in Final Fantasy Tactics, a strong Monk with the Two Swords support ability ca,n cause more damage in a single round. I learned that family is still one of the most important things in my life. I also learned that drinking and haircuts don't mix. 
Of course, there are still many more things for me to learn beyond my short 22 years of exis­tence. I still need to figure out how to get a date for a dance. I can't really understand why girls almost always go to the bathrooms in groups. I'll probably never understand how a guys' bath­room gets so filthy in so little time. I still need to know an that art history stuff for class. I don't know how people could go out in public and wear a tie and khaki pants and a blue blazer but still scoff at the pimpin' style of the Mighty Fruity Muscle Pants. I still want to learn the intricate steps of BaGua. I still have to learn a_ way to pay off my outstanding loans after I grad­uate. I still want to learn a foreign language. And I should probably still try to learn that my body is a temple, not to be defiled by the sacreli­gious act of consuming alcohol. I could also try learning the secret meaning to life. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Bill Urifowski Mike Vanegas Kare Steer Graphics Erin Pirourek Amy Crownover 
Sports Lab Tech 
Mike Connolly Kevin Dalum 
Viewpoint 
Brian Hobbins 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through F,iday cx,1;'.pr during cum and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associared Prcss. All rcproducrion rights ,re rc,ervecl. 

THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Swing Dance: Dan  . Open Mike: Poetry and  
O'Days, Mishawaka.,  music welcomed. Higher  
8:45 p.m. to 10:45 p.m.  Grounds Coffee House,  
8 p.m. to 10 p.m.  
. Ballroom Dance Class:  
Rose Ballroom, Mishawaka  
7:15 p.m. to 8 p.m., dance  
party 8 p.m. to 10 p.m.  

Friday 
. Niles Haunted House 
Scream Park: U.S. 12 and ­31, Niles, 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
. African Children's Choir: 
First United Methodist Church, 333 N. Main St., 7p.m. 
Saturday 
. Fall Flea Market and 
Bake Sale: American Legion, 1633 N. Bendix Dr., 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. 

. Joan Metelli in Concert: 
Indiana University South Bend auditorium, 8 p.m. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Muscle enhancers suspected in UNC death 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
University or North Carolina Charlotte student Kelly Ivan Ketchie was found dead in his University Club Townhomes apartment Friday, Sept. 10. 
According to Wes Deese, assistant property manager for University Club, the last time Ketchie had be(m seen alive was the afternoon of Sept 
6. He had been missing for four days when his roommates got worried and forced their wav into his room where they found him lying face down in the bathroom. 
Deese, who knew Ketchie as a friend for a vear, said that he was heavily into ~eight lifting. 
According to his mother, Sandra Ketchie, the coroner told the family that there was a malfunction in his heart. Although the coroner could not be certain, he suspected that the 
"When I go home, I am pour­ing out all ofmy stuff down the drain. '.' 
Wes Deese assistant property manager 
muscle-enhancing drugs found in Ketchie's apartment were involved in his death. 
The management of University Club moved Ketchie's roommates to a new apartment and will use their former apartment as the property's model. 
Deese said that they didn't feel right moving anyone back into the apartment. 
This death has hit home for Deese 
LSU student killed near campus 
BATON ROUGE, La. 

Baton Rouge police officers are investigating the death of a 19-year-old University student who was murdered in her apartment Monday afternoon. Kassie Lynn Federer, 19, was found dead in her Park Place Residence apartment, first by the complex's manage­ment and then by BRPD, according to Maj. Lamar Thompson. Federer, originally from Ponchatoula, La., was a psychology major and a member of Kappa Alpha Theta sorority. Park Place Residence tenants com­plained to management Monday afternoon after they heard noise coming from Federer's apartment, Thompson said. Apartment managers investigated the complaint and found the apartment door open and Federer dead in the apartment, Thompson said. Police were contacted and arrived between 4:15 and 4:30 p.m. Police are hoping to gather more information by talking to the apartment complex tenants who reported the noise, Thompson said. "The information was real scarce," he said. "They really don't have an}1hing." The area where Park Place Residence is located, usually experiences less crime than other areas around campus. 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
[",.~__.......,.. i 
i I 
i 

Wednesday~ 

Thursday (f 

Friday) 
~ 

Satur~ay .r)-, Sunday . ,, ;,~
::.J.,,,r.,,·--.........,~/-··~...~:.:, ,...._,. 
~~A .ill cC11 u ¢-~ ~ 
,, .. , ..~...~:.. :. <·. . ::• ---~ ~ Showers T·storms Rain Flu,;,.. S~o;;; /co Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associafed Press GraphicsNet 

because they worked out together. 
"The last time I saw him was in the weight room," said Deese. "When I go home, I am pouring out all of my stuff down the drain." Ile said that this is an important issue for college students to be aware of the dangers of these drugs. 
"I want people to know I had the most beautiful and beloved son ... Young people are so involved with looking better ... no matter what we do to these bodies we live in, we only live in them until our spirit leaves. It's what's inside you that is impor­tant," his mother said. 
Ketchie graduated ·from Concord High School in 1993 and came to UNCC to major in management. Ketchie, a 24-year-old senior from Kannapolis, was set to graduate this December and planned to open his own recording studio. 
Supremacist Hale not involved 
URBANA, Ill. 
In their investigation of anti-Semitic pamphlets dis­tributed in the Law Building Sunday, University of Illinois· police have dismissed white supremacist Matthew Hale, who was banned from campus, as a suspect. University police Capt. Kris Fitzpatrick said Hale, who heads the white supremacist World Church of the Creator, was suspected of distributing the pam­phlets but was cleared Monday. Hale said he was unaware of the distribution; he added that his church has "a good couple dozen" active members in the area, including a University lawistudent whose name he would not disclose. Fitzpatrick said distributing hate literature is legal, but if Hale were found on cam­pus he would face charges of criminal trespass to state-supported property. The resurfacing of anti­Semitic literature comes about two months after for­mer University student and Hale follower Benjamin Smith shot University student Steven Kuo, who suf­fered injuries to his leg. The Urbana shooting was part of a spree that killed two, injured eight and ended in Smith's suicide. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

......... .A.JI.. ........... 0 1999 AccuWealher, Inc. COLD WARM $/ATIONARY 
P,...11tf; ¼. 
® © . ~ . m] rn Em () ~,~ ~ 
High Low Shower• Ratn T-•1orm• flutrle ¦ Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vl'.11 ltssoclar«l Press  
Atlanta  75  66  Jacksonville  80  77  Sacramento  90  58  
Boston  64  63  Los Angeles  76  62.  San Antonio  86  67  
Cleveland  65  48  Minneapolis  63  43  Seattle  75  55  
Denver  74  43  New Orleans  83  68  Tampa  84  79  
Houston  83  69  Philadelphia  69  66  Tulsa  66  56  

Wednesday, September 15, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Philosophy professor receives Book of Year Award 
By LIZ ZANONI 
News Writer 
.lamns Stnrba, Notre Dame profnssor of philosophy, rnc.('ivnd thn l lJIJ8 Book of the Ynar Award l'rom the North AmPrican S11cinty for Social l'hilosophy l'or his book ".lusticn l'or I lt>rn and Now." 
SlPrlia 's book was rncog­
nized at the 16th Annual Social Philosophy Conference in Philadelphia this summer. ".Justice for Hern and Now," was tho first book to have Author Meets Critics sessions at all three Anrnrican Philosophical Association Mootings this yoar. 
In his book, Sterba argues that a "pPacr.making" approach rather than the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME TERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
• DUBLIN, IRELAND "The Best of Both Worlds" 
INFORM A TJON MEETINGS 
Thursday, September 16, 12.2.2 
4:45 PM I02 DcBartolo 

With Claudia Ksclman, Associate Director International Study Programs 
Tuesday, October 12, 1999 
102 DeBartolo 
4:45 PM 

With Prof. Kevin Whelan, Director Keough-Notre Dame Centre, Dublin 
Monday. November 8. 1999 
I02 DeBartolo 
4:45 PM 

With Katie Schott, Administrator Keough-Notre Dame Centre, Dublin 
Applications Available Application Deadline: December 1 For Fall 2000 -Spring 2001 A Y 2000-2001 
overused "warmaking" approach tu philosophy indi­cates that the notion of ratio­nality requires morality. The peacemaking approach searches for a common con­cern that can enable opposing parties to understand their disputes. 
Sterba says that libertarian morality can be embraced by welfare liberals, socialists and feminists even though they support equality for different reasons. Fem.inist, racial, homosexual and multicultural justices are interrelated, and advantages exist when they unite to defend against injus­tices. 
"There is not one form of' justice; the arguments are interconnected," he said. 
Sterba elaborates by demon-
Introducing ... 

----------------~~ 
strating that similarities also exist between the anthro­pocentric and biocentric envi­ronmental ethics because both 
can be morally defended to produce the same con­c I us ions. Sterba said he uses these argu­


ments as a Sterba 
way or "building a com pletl> (dh ical and moral philosophy." Thn culmination or Sterba's masoning is that thorn exist very few circum­stancos that rnconcile going to war. 
A group ol' 21 essays on ".Justice for 11cm and Now," will he published this fall. Also, a conference focusing on the book will be held on cam­pus this spring. Sterba is structuring the conference to include an interactive discus­sion between representatives from different groups in today's society who are light­ing for e4uality. 
Sterba published 20 books and written over 150 articles in addition to leaching moral and political philosophy at the UnivRrsity since 1973. Two books, "Thn1e Challenges to Ethics: Environmentalism, Feminism and Multicultural­ism," and "Ethics: Classical Western Texts in Feminist and Multicultural l'nrspectives," will be availubl(1 soon. 
.,
""" 
'. ~-~ ,~-i.),1 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 15, 1999 



Parking 
continued from page 1 
said. 
Board of Governance addressed the issue at its first meeting of the academic year last Wednesday. 
"!We] arc looking into the fact that students have had access to Le Mans lot in the past from 5 p.m. until 7 a.m. and are trying to find a ratio­nale," said Nancv Midden, stu­dent body president. "As a broader goal, we need more parking on rampus. l\ty per­sonal feeling is that we need temporary ~~rking established somewhere. 
"A lot of students were upset because they weren't aware of the changes made by the administration," said Beth Beatty, off-campus commis­sioner. 

Furthermore, parking needs are not being addressed. 
"lt doesn't look like we will get the parking spaces we need. We don't have that far to walk Lon campus]. We need to be patient with everyone and the fact that we don't have the spaces," Beatty said. 
Her corn miltee is working on the proposal that students may park in the Le Mans lot from 5 
p.m. until 7 a.m. 
Beatty also noted that "stu­dents can go to the security director for special needs and they can be dealt with -the College is trying to work with everyone." 
As for the problflm of over­flow parking, Midden hopes that the Science lot will be usrd. 
"It is an important issue; we are taking steps to work it out," shr said. "The other commissioners and I are work­ing with [Chlebek] to come to a mutual satisfying agreement." 
DEMOCRACY 101 

Guillermo O'Donnell lec­tures on democracy with special focus on recently 
democratized countries as well as older democracies outside the Northwestern quadrant of the world yes­terday in the Hesburgh Center. 
JOE STARK/The Observer 


String quartet to perform tonight 
Special to The Observer 
The Lydian String Quartet will perform tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The concert will feature the local premiere of Notre Dame professor of music and composer Ethan 1-Iaimo's "String Quartet in Two Movements." 
The quartet has performed extensively throughout the United States at venues includ­ing the Lincoln Center, Library of Congress and the Kennedy Center. It also is performing a series of concerts at the Wigrnore Hall in London and has made appearances in France, Italy, Germany, Switzerland, Russia and Armenia. 
Winner of a Chamber Music America/ASCAP Award for Adventurous Programming, the quartet has received grants from the Meet the Composer/Rockefeller Foundation/AT&T Jazz Program in partnership with the National Endowment for the Arts, Chamber Music America, Carillon Importers, the Mazer Grant and Brandeis University. Awards won by the quartet include the Naurnburg Award for Chamber Music, numerous awards from the Aaron Copland Fund for Music, and ensemble prizes at international competi­tions in Canada, France and England. 

Education is an integral part of the quartet's mission, and it conducts mini-residencies in communities and universities throughout the U.S. 
During the summer months, the quartet runs a three-week chamber music clinic at the Brandeis Summer Music Festival, which draws music stu­dents and advanced amateurs from across the country. 
Members of the quartet are on the faculty of Brandeis University. The group appears by arrangement with Aaron Concert Artists, a division of Trawick Artists Ltd. in New York City. 
Haimo will introduce the con-



ATTENTION 
UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE 
THE GLOBE 

cert by discussing his work at 
7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. General admission for the event is $10, $8 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College faculty and staff with an id, $6 for senior citizens, and $3 for students. The concert is made possible by a generous grant from the Boehnen Fund for Excellence.in the Arts. 
The Lydian String Quartet, formed in 1980, has a tradition­al repertoire including Schubert, Haydn, Beethoven and Ravel, as well <).S a flair for contemporary music. Recordings by the quar­tet include works by John Harbison, Lee Hyla, William Schuman, Charles Ives, Irving Fine, Allen Anderson, and Thomas Oboe Lee. 
SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFOR1"1ATION MEETING 
With Cannen Nanni Student Returnees 

Wednesday September 15, 1999 South Dining Hall Hospitality Room 4:45 PM 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY f~'OR SPRING 2000. 



....~ fiesta $ ~ .I) 

Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
Lafortune Ballroom 9:30 PM-1 :00 AM 
Let's celebrate and learn more about these seven nations during an evening of dancing! 


Free Admission! 






orld 
•I 
n 
Wednesday. September 15, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OUSEHVER WIHE SERVICES page 5 
-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_----~---_-_-_----_-_-_~__ _--=======:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-=-----_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_---=:_____::_=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=--==-===============--=---=--=-=-=-=-=--= 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
China arrests 
four Catholic priests 
BEI.IING 

l'olicn ltavP arrnstnd an 81-ynar-old bishop and thrne prinsts of China's undnrground Homan Catholic churr.h. a U.S.-based church group said Tunsday. Bishop Lin Xiii of WPnzho11. in tlrn south1rnstr.rn province of Zlwjiang, had btH'n in hiding lrnl was arrnst­nd SPpl. 7 011 a six-mo11ll1-olcl warrant, tho Cardinal K11ng Foundation said. Lin has alwady spPnt somH 20 years in prison, tlw group said in a statnmnnt. The H•ws. \Vang Uwngzhi and Shao 1\min of' Wnnzhou wr.re picknd up St!pl. :{ and 5, rnspectiv1ily. The llt>v. Chu (;uangyao of Shanghai was arrest­ed t\ug. 1<i and his house was ransacked, tlw fo1111dalio11 said. It did nol know thl' wlll'rPalrnuts of' llw f'our nwn, nor dPtails about lh1dr cases. China has frnt1t11rntly i111priso1wd priests and worshippers who n•1111ti11 loyal to till) Vatican and rnfusc lo parliripal!· in thP statn-<Lpprovt•d church. 
Home-schooling mother released from prison 
BUHI.INCTON, Vt. 

A hor11C•-schooli11g motlwr was rnlnasnd from jail T1wsday al'tPr SjH'nding nmtrly two wneks lwhind hars in a clisput<• with publi1'. school olli­rials owr lwr son's s1wcial 11ducation nnnds. In n t:asH rlosdy watclwd by advocal1)S of school drni1·1•, Karn11 Mapl1• was snt f'rnc by llw judgn who had jailtid lrnr 011 cont<'mpt charges on S1ipl. l. Slw had rdusPd to follow an order Lo takl' lwr I 5-ypar-old soil, Trnvor. to Vtwmont's child protnction ag.mcy so his education needs ('()U]d lw 1waluatPd. 111 Sl)tling MaplH l'rne, .Judge Midmf'I Kupersmith thn•atcrrnd to line her $100 a day if slw rhmsn't takP Trnvor to lfrn agnncy 011 Friday. "I don't want my son locked up and trnatPd thl' way I 'vp b1•pn trnatl'CI li1r the last two w1•flks." tlw :{(,-y11ar-old sing-!<• motlrnr said. 
Plane crash kills Greek foreign minister 
BUCIIAHEST. Homania 

CrnPcti's deputy foreign minister and live oth­l'rs wern killml law Tuesday when their nxPcu­tivH jet hit lwavy turhulencn and plummeted thousands ol' foet bPf'ore leveling off. Greek and Homanian ol'l'icials said. Deputy Foreign Miniswr Yia1111os Kranidiolis. his 23-yiiar-old soil Nikos. and !'our otlwrs were killed. said Homanian Transport Minister Traian Basnscu. Thn•n olhHrs wnre hospitalized while the four otlrnrs aboard Wl'l'tl not injurnd. The pilot and co-pilot wern among those unhurt and were ahll' lo land tlw govnrnnwnt-ownnd Falcon ex1)cutivn jnt in Bucharnst, Basescu said. The rnusP of th1) deaths wasn't immediately clnar. l!omanian tnlnvision rnports said Kranidiotis and tlw others possibly suffocat1id or sulfon)d hPart attacks after tlwir aircraft suddenly <IPprnssurizPd as it rapidly lost altitude. 

Dow 
AMEX: 
801..t8

}ONES 
-3 02 

Nasdaq:

10910.33 
2868.29 
+23.52 
NYSE: 
651.11 -5,70 S&I' SOO: 
1336.29 
Co111posi1e 

~ -7-84 
Volume:

~120.00 657,800,000 


VOLUME LEADERS 

''il!d,l'!~X ar~lB 1J!iCUA?'.!U.I· J ii!US t'!Urt 
llf.1.1 COMl'U lf.R Ml('ki,_l~U-r1;'.0'1.!' OIUl l.f. U>RI' !NH.I. CORI'n'i< :o ~v, rf.M\ lllll\l.Ct l_•vOA l~C  l>f.1.1. M~rl' ORCI. INT<" nul llCOl\-1  -1.70 -,.L16 .o (l~ .1.10 tl.77 +JI "  •!UU.50 -+l. lRSu -0,JIOO +l.-1.150 + J.2S2~ ,1-I7. !2.';U  i7.0(1 95.0b >J.~.•H 85.81 7 I .•~,a 17050  
AMl.k\C :A ONl.lN~­,11'1'1.ffll MATFRIAI. 11UIH:IIA.'>l'l'Rt l \ 'llM WOMMl'ORt'  ,\()(. •\MAT l'l'Rll ('.()MS,  •0.97 +7.12 + I li.tl7 -I .II)  -t0.H1SO tS.,flll +14.120 .o..nso  tJl.nO Kl.lo 2.b.12 Zl\;0  


I leavy rain began falling Operations Center. launch pads and the 
Associated Press 

from West Palm Beach to Forecasters exp,~ctcd the hangars whnrn all four Cape Canaveral Tuesday eye of the storm to come space shuttles am kept.COCOA BEACH, Fla. !Werning, with forecasters within 50 milr.s of' Daytona "Everybody nls1) is gone.From Florida to the 
expecting tropical storm Beach early Wednesday It's kind of eerie out here," Carolinas. 1wacw1es f1eeing winds to come ashore just afternoon as it moves NASA spokesman Georgellurricane Floyd streamed bnl'ore dawn and hurricane north. Diller, one of the volun­inland in bumper-to­force winds greater than 7 4 Landfall was projected teers, said by telephonebumper traffic Tuesday as mph late Wednesday morn­close to Charleston, S.C., by from a fortified building at orrn of the most f'carsomo ing, if the storm continued early Thursday, said mete­tlrn space center. storms of the century il'> current path. orologist .Jeremy President Clinton issued threatened to wreak havoc. By 8 p.m., rloyd was cen­Pennington with the pre-emptive disaster decla­
Nearly 2 million people tered 205 miles cast-south­National Hurricane Center rations for Florida and were told to get out of the east of Cape Canaveral, Walt Disney World closed Georgia to enable rncovery way as Floyd skirted the moving northwest at 12 early Tuesday because of' efforts to begin as quickly north-central Florida coast, mph. Its winds had eased the weather for the first as possible. menacing an aroa from from \1onday's 155 mph, time in its 28-year history. I le also planrrnd to return Cape Canaveral to but it was still a Category 4 Other Orlando-area resorts a day early from his trip to Jacksonville with its 140 storm. the second most like Universal Studios and New Zealand. mph winds. powerful hurricane desig­SeaWorld also shut down. The Federal Emergency 
The monstrous. 600-mile nation. At Cape Canaveral's Management Agency set up storm -bigger than the "if this thing parallels us, nearly deserted Kennedy a staging area in Atlanta, whole state of Florida -it could act like a weed­Space Center, 102 workers stockpiling food, ice, water, threatened tn roll ashore eater going up the coast," volunteered to stay behind cnts, blankets, generators, early Thursday, probably in said Craig Fugate of the to ride out Floyd, which portable toilets, and plastic Georgia or Sou th Carolina. Florida Emergency NASA feared could destroy sheeting. 
INDONESIA 

U.N. believes militia burned compound 
spokesman at U.N. head­headquarters in East previous estimates have
Associated Press 

quarters in New York, also Timur's provincial capital ranged from 600 to 7,000. said the compound was had been set ablaze by In the Indonesian capitalDILi 
looted by the Indonesian militiamen, del Mundo ol' Jakarta, nearly 1,000
Hampaging militiamen 

military "the very people said. students tried to march onw1ire believed to have set 
we asked to secure the t\lso today, a U.N. parliament today,
lire to the abandoned U.N. 

compound." agency said more than demanding tho resignation
compound in East Timor Early in the day, 200,000 East Timorese of President ILi. llabibir,

today, hours after 110 U.N. 

Fernando de! Mundo, risk starvation because and the end of military
staff and 1,300 refugees 

spokesman for the U.N. they are cut off f'rom food involvement in politics ­left for sa1'11ty in Australia, 
High Commissioner for supplies and drinking and blaming both for tlw 
a U.N. olTicial said. 

Hei"ugees in .Jakarta, said water. bloodshed in East Timor. 
However, a U.N. U.N. staff members in Dili About 7,000 people have ProtPst11rs clashed with spokesman in New York had reported seeing a been killed and 100,000 police !iring plastic bullets said he was told a small black plume of smoke ris­have been forcibly relocat­and tear gas. 
nearby house -not the ing from the direction of ed to West Timor. the "The military kill people compound -had been the U.N. compound. Home-based Food and in East Timor. Wn students burned. The conl'licting The staff, yvho took Agriculture Organization must challenge them," said r<'ports could not be rec­refuge in the Australian said. While it is impossible one protest organizer. who onciled immediately. consulate after most U.N. to confirm the number identified himself by the Fred Eckhard. the workers left, feared their killed in the past week, single name of Lach man. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
Merrill: Solitary O'Keefe differed from Taos artists 
By LINDSAY FRANK News Wrirer 
Georgia O'Keefe was an out­sider among her contempo­raries, Christopher Merrill, a professor of English at Holy Cross College in Wooster, Mass,, said in his lecture Tuesday. 
"She was really a solitary; she's the quintessential out­sider," he said. 
According to Merrill, O'Keefe's style and outlook dif­fered especially from the Taos artists, despite the fact that she spent a large portion of her life living and painting in New Mexico. 
"O'Keefe wanted to bring what was far away and unfo­cused up close so we could see it anew," said Merrill. 
Unlike the Taos artists, O'Keefe focused her attention on inanimate objects like her well-known flowers, bones and landscapes as opposed to images of individuals. 
Merrill said that this differ­

"She was really a solitary,· she's the quintessential outsider.,, 
Christopher Merrill English professor 
ence prOVfld to be beneficial to O'Keefe's work. 
"I think the distance from mainstream, her distance from what 'the boys' were doing was crucial for her," he said. 
For O'Keefe the process of uncovering a spiritual mean­ing behind her subjects was key to what Merrill called "her need to make known the unknown." 
O'Keefe often painted her subjects several times. She usually began with realistic interpretations and moved to abstract compositions in what Merrill called an effort "to focus on what was most remote." 
"She was not going to con­fine herself, and therefore moved in between the two [methods of painting]." he said. 
Merrill also emphasized O'Keefe's remarkable attitude regarding the relationship artists have with their work. 
"She understood how as an artist you do your work and then leave it behind," he said. 
He also said that in the 1950s, O'Kcefc kept a garbage can specifically for the burning of her artwork, and that she burned between 700 and 800 paintings during that decade. 

Dole criticizes Clinton's plan for ban on nuclear testing 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Republican presidential can­didate Elizabeth Dole urged Congress on Tuesday to reject 
President Clinton's pleas for a global ban on nuclear test explosions. 
She called the Iong­s ta II e d 


Comprehen-Dole sive Test Ban Treaty "ill-conceived" and a threat to national security. 
"With Russia in turmoil, with North Korea and other threats, with other rogue nations moving forward, I think the U.S. will need -for the foreseeable future -a credible deterrent," the for­mer American Red Cross pres­ident said in a telephone interview. "A credible deter­rent means you have to have confidence in that deterrent ­and that means testing." 
Dole, who lags well behind Republican front-runner George W. Bush in presiden­tial polls, also released a statement opposing the pact. Clinton wants the treaty approved by a Sept. 23 dead­line. 
Former Vice President Dan Quayle also urged the Senate to reject the treaty. 
"If rejection ... sends the message that the United States will never be willing to give up the weapons we deem to be vital to preserving our national security, then that is exactly the right signal to send," Quayle said in a state­ment Tuesday. 
The 1996 treaty has been signed by 152 nations but so far ratified by only 18 of the 44 nations with nuclear capa­bilities. The nuclear powers must approve the pact for it to take effect. 
Hussia and China are among the nations that have not rati­fied it. 
Supp()rters of the treaty say 
Did you know? 
There is a group on campus to help students facing disciplinary hearings before the Office of Residence Life. Peer advocates are specially trained to guide students through the disciplinary process. They comprise a division of Judicial Council, a Student Government organization, and are not part of Residence Life. 
Judicial Council is recruiting sophomores, juniors and seniors for a limited number of openings in the Peer Advocacy division. Ap~lications are now available in the Student Government office on the second floor of Lafortune and are 
' 
due by Wednesday, September 15. 
Questions? Call Kelly Folks at 1-4556 

"A credible deterrent means you have to have confidence in that deterrent -and that means testing." 
Elizabeth Dole presidential candidate 
it would lock in U.S. superiori­ty gained in over 1,000 nuclear tests during the Cold War, while failing to ratify the pact could open the door to nuclear tests by other nations. 
Opponents argue it could threaten America's ability to deliver an effective nuclear strike, if one is ever needed. The treaty is bottled up in the Republican-led Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
The United States has not conducted a full-fledged nuclear test since 1992. Mrs. Dole said a long period of non­testing could create "potential defects" in the U.S. arsenal. "Why the rush" to sign a treaty? Mrs. Dole asked. 
Daryl Kimball, executive director of the Coalition to Reduce Nuclear Dangers, cited public polls that show huge majorities of Americans favor the treaty. 
"This is a very perilous political position to take," he said. 
''It puts her more on the side of (Senate foreign Relations Committee chairman) Jesse Helms and less on the side of moderates like (former Sen.) Bob Dole." 
Dole, who is married to the former senator, said the polls underscore a lack of knowl­edge about the treaty. "We need to educate people about it," she said. 



ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 

www.nd.edu/,_,,vocation 
Want to write for news? Come to the news meeting, Sunday night at 5 p.m. in the basement of SDH. 
Wednesday, Sepcembcr 15, 1999 page 7 



The Observer looks at the stereotype African­American students face.
OCUS 
A bi-weekly feature from The Observer News Department This Week: Racial Stereotypes 

Photo Art by JOE STARK/The Observer Many Notre Dame students assume that African-American students are athletes. Until Notre Dame increases its racial diversity, African-American students will continue to stand out in a crowd. 
Many students hold stereotypes about African-Am.ericans 
African-American students and you do see a lot ol' African­"African-Americans are per­grounds from which many Notrn
By MAUREEN. SMITHE 
39 percent of'.female African­Americans involved in those ceived different from people like Dame studnnts come. News Wnter 
Anrnrican students participated sports," Huie said. "A large me," he said. "When I lirsl got "I think a lot of the majority 
in sports. according to Iris majority of famous players in the here people assumed I played a studenl'i here have gone to white 
Wlwn Irish lailhack Tony Outlaw and Kevin I luie. directors NFL and NBA are Af'rican­varsity sport. They didn't under­schools and the only African­l>rivPr walkPd onto Notre or tlrn Office of Multicultural American." stand that I was here completely American image they have is of Danw's campus as a frnshman. Student Affairs. Furthermore, the sternotype on merit." athletes," said non-athlntn lw notit'.l'd a disturbing pattern As a rnsult of' these figuratively infers that African-American This fact bothers Outlaw and sophomore Irene Onynagbako.
of' thought hy many ol' Notre 
high percm1tages, the stereotype students are admitted to Notre Huie. Driver agrees. Ila11w's studPnts. 
that all African-Anwrican stu­Dame solely on athletic, not aca­"To assume that folks can be "Notre Damn has a tradition of "TIii' studP11ts lwr1~ think any dents arn athlntes is evident. demic meri't. here only because ol' their athlet­upper-middle class white stu­Al"rirnn-Anrnrican sludnnl is an Thn popularity of football and The stereotype has not gone ic abilities is an insult," Outlaw dents -it is part of thn tradition 
athlnto •-1.lial's all t.llat's lwrn," 
othnr sports fosters that sterno­unnoticed for junior track run­said. and mystique of the University," lie said. typl1. The fact that sports -par­ner Heggie McKnight. "I think it isn't the stigma. but he said. But liko many of tlw African­
ticuarly highly publicized ones -"Obviouslv most African­the athlete status. Some people Ynt some African-American Anwrican studPnts 1111 campus. are tlw ones exposed the public Americans are athletes, and with think athletes am not inclined to students say they don't notice al11h!ll's and non-athlPtes, Driver 
will nncourage stereotyping, that stigma it is assumed that be at Notre Dame -that they prevailing stereotypes on cam­was l'orct!d to d<!al with tlrn situ­
acrnrding to Outlaw and I luie. you arn not here because or your are here only for their athletic pus.ation. 
"Thn perception comes academic abilities," he said. ability. There is a perception "I know a lot of minority studty"Wlwn I l'irst got hnre my 
bncause thn majority of players It also affects international stu­that the University is trying to fill nts have a snnsc of how they arn f"rt•shman y11ar it malty bothered on the f'oolball team am African­dents. Nigerian sophomore Kabir quotas and that is just not the seen, but I malty don't notice nw, but as you go on, you get 
Anwrican," Outlaw said. Audu looks at the stereotype case," Huie said. anything," said junior Znsha us1•d lo it," Driv11r said. 
"The two most visible teams from a diClercnt angle than some The rationale, studenl'i say, is l.ast y1iar, f,4 pnrcent or main am football and basketball, and of his American counterparts. due to the homogenous back-see IMAGES/page 8 
Controversies arise about 
sources of stereotypes 
gy JOSHUA BOURGEOIS In 1:orns Edimr 
Diversity within the student body, som1ithing Notre Dame students of'tnn fod tho Univnrsity lacks, could all<iviatc Lim st11rnotypl1 of African­Anrnrirans and athi!~tes. 
Of'tnn, Al'rican-Amnricans ar(1 slt•n!otyl)ed as athlNns and assunwd to att,,1111 1111' llnivPrsitv lwcausn of' llwir athlntit· n1pabilitiPs and not tlwir auukmii: nwrit. 
Fostering the stereotype 
Sonw c,wrasion studm1ts say it is llw typical Notro Damn studm1L's background thal rnntribulns to this slnrnotypn whih~ ollwrs lind tlui lack 111' (,thnic and racial divnrsity within tlw University cultivat.1!S this not.ion. 
Sophomore Chris Cl(,nll'nt attribut­l!S tho sl1!rnotypl' to llw IHmw m1vi­ro11mPnt tlw avPrage Notrn Danw 
student comes from and the poor race rnlalions on campus. 
"These stereotypes are fostered l'rom tlrn wealthy suburban back­grounds whnre there arc not a lot of Af'rican-!\mericans," Clement said. "I come from an arna whnre there is a majority minority, and that has made my 11xp11ricncH very differont. 
"I cl11n't think they (race relations] am vnry good. Cliques are scgrngat­od. Tlwrn dons not Sl\(\lll to ho much intnrplay bctw1~(Hl tlw rac11s," lw 
added. Ile said tho Univ(irsily rwither pro­motes nor addrnsses tlrn stcnmtypc. 
Snnior Melissa Balchunas and junior Patrick Pishcr, however, said the l1tck of diversity in the student body strnngthrms those stnrnotyµus. 
"ll [lack ol' racial divPrsityl is s11 ohvious here," Balchunas said. "I blame tlw University for fostering tho caiicasian environnrnnt. Tho fact that a majority of' the minoritins that go 
see DIVERSITY/page 8 

HOW DOES NOTRE DAME'S [)l\/l:RSIT'i. -. .L -·-• ---COMPARE? Source: us News Best Col leg~  
While  Asian  African American  Hispanic  International  
-Notre Dame  84%  4%  3%  6%  2%  
It; Boston College  80%  8%  4%  5%  4%  
'i!. Princeton :J.~t., ~  7 0 o/t  11 %  7%  6%  5%  
Q Georgetown  69 '¼  8%  7%  6%  10 %  
~ Michigan  72%  11 %  9%  4%  4%  
pU. of Pennsylvania  8 9 o/t  5%  3%  2%  1%  
t} Nor1hwestern  7 0 '¼­ 18 o/c  6%  3%  3%  
!J Stanford  5 2 o/t  23%  8%  11 %  5%  
]ti Duke  74%  11 %  8%  4%  2%  
~ U. of Virginia  7 7 o/t.  9%  10%  2%  2%  


page 8 The Observer . IN FOCUS Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
Images 
continued from page 7 
Holyfield. 
Many African-American ath­letes, however, do recognize that a seeming majority of African-Ameicans on campus are athletes. 
"The majority of 

us are athletes," African­
"Everyone always asks 

said basketball American 
player Harold 'What sport do you students. 
Swanagan. While play?' ... Sometimes it Having Swanagan has not m o r e
does bother me because

noticed stereo­African­
types toward him, not all African-American American he admits that an males are athletes." students 
assumption is evi­admitted to dent. t h e 
Anthony Barber

"I guess it is a University point to assume," sophomore may be a 
Swanagan said. 
The stereotype leaves African-American stu­dents with a difficult task of defining an identity at a prodominantly white university. The assumption that racial stereotyping places on African­Ameri cans will, most often, leave them with some explain­ing to do. 
That's what happens to soph­more Anthony Barber, who is an African-American non-ath­lete. 
"The image does question a lot of the things I can do. Everyone always asks 'What sport do you play?' " Barber said. "Sometimes it does bother me because not all African­American males are athletes," 
African-American students who have dealt with the situa­tion before find themselves more prepared for life at Notre Dame. 
The reaction to race at a prodominantly white school, they say, is universal. 
"(The stereotype] doesn't really bother me because it mir­rors the setting of my high school," Onyeagbako said. 
Audu draws from his experi­ences at home in Nigeria to rationalize the stereotype. 
"Reing the kind of person I am, the stereotypes don't bother me," he said. "For me, coming from a predominantly black society it is different, but I was brought up \\ith tolerance and I went to a very diverse high school." 
The advantages, however, of coming to Notre Dame as an African-Amerian athlete out­weigh the disadvantages. Swanagan keeps his focus on his goals, not the stereotypes. 
"It doesn't bother me at all because the reason I chose to come to this school is to play sports and for the networking opportunities after graduation," Swanagan said. 
Yet at times, it can be lonely. 
Celebrate the fall season with a change in dining. 
&s 

-------------3 0 
"At Notre Dame there is such a big fee ling of family," McKnight said. "Sometimes I feel like I am not a part of that. People will cheer for you because you represent Notre Dame, not because you are an individual." 
The Office of Multi-cultural Affairs works every year to combat the prevailing athlete 
image of 
solution to the problem. 
Yet the University may be fighting against an increasing trend that is sending African­American students to racial­specific colleges, making it more and more difficult to admit African-American stu­dents. 
The cause of that trend, Outlaw said, may be due to stereotypes. 
"A lot of African-American students are turning to histori­cally black colleges," she said. "For example, at Xavier University in New Orleans, this year is its largest class ever." 
According to Outlaw, diverse media coverage is important in combating the stereotype. 
McKnight offers a different type of solution, encouraging his fellow students to "enter into relationships being open. There are a lot of stereotypes and as a community, Notre Dame needs to ar,cept people as individuals." 




Millennial/Fin de siecle series 
1. Opening Event Thursday, September 16, 1999, 7:00-11 :00 pm Annenberg Auditorium 
Snite Museum of Art Film Screening of Kathryn Bigelow's Strange Days 
7:00 snacks and beverages in Snite atrium 
7:30 Intro to film by Don Crafton (Chair, FTT) 7:40-1 0 Film: Strange Days 
10-11: Roundtable discussion and drinks in LOFT (3L4 O'Shaughnessy) Jessica Chalmers (FTT), Richard Pierce (HIS) and Matthias Scheutz {CSE) 
Diversity 
continued from page 7 
here are athletes is ridicu­lous." 
Fisher said that the students, many of whom come from suburbs, have experience with minorities. He said he thinks the stereotype stems from cer­tain events that place a spot­light on the African-American athlete. 
"Certain events in the past with African-American ath­letes will burn in the back of our minds and that becomes the lens at which the students see through. If they [other stu­den ts] see a black student, then they will assume athlete," Fisher said. 
Senior KelliP Hazell sees the dominance of the African­American 011 the athletic field and the scarcity of visibility in the classroom as the root of the stereotype. 
"It is visual things," she said. "We go to the football games and the majority of the starters arfl African-American. It is a visual affirmation of the stereotype." 
Abolishing the stereotype 
Caucasion students' opinions vary on how to reverse the stereotype toward African­Americans and athletes. l\lany, however, agree that the answer lies in increasing diversity in the student body. 
"The only way to end the stereotype is to attract more minorities to apply," Balchunas said. "We need to let minority high school stu­dents know that there is a place for them here." · 
Balchunas said that the best way lo attract minority stu­dents is by "developing pro­grams that will allow more minoritfos lo come to Notre Dame." 
Fisher agrees with Balchunas' opinion that they need to recruit more minori­ties. Diversity withing the stu­dent body comes from diversi­fying the applicant pool, he said. 
"What does Notre Dame do to make the contact before minorities apply?" he added. "The Notre Dame family needs to reach out hefore the applica­tion process." 
Fisher said maybe Notre Dame should rework its admis­sion priorities in order to allow diversity without stereotyping. 
"If you makn the admission requirements very ri_gorous, such that no one can get in without meeting those require­ments, then all Notre Dame students will be admitted because of their merit and not athletic ability. It is the incon­
;,~dplt+-lip-Hop dance dub .18 and 
.... ±campus alternative forfyn and .~oient Great junk food, non-alcoholic es, frozen drinks, pool, darts and other 
games. 
Y~s -You can party and have fun without booze. Try it before you knock it. 
every Wednesday -Saturday from 6 pm until close. 
the best in Hip-Hop, Retro, House, R&B, Line music, Old School, Disco, and Rock and Roll. 
Learn the latest and hippest dance moves from ...·. some of the hottest DJ's in the midwest at the 'iday and Saturday night weekly dance parties. 
mic on Wed. and Thursdays. Show yo1..rc;:, talent and bring a friend. 
s. available for bands, DJ's, comedians;®ii 
! 
and other entertainers. Call 233-8505 for more information. 
t11~etin~ ro?ms !or student orga­Iut;,s and'sociat groups) 
sistency tliat makes the stereo­types," Fisher said. "Which will better our education? A diverse, average 1300 SAT stu­d,rnt body or a predominantly white, 1360 SAT student body?" 
Hazell disagrees that Notre Dame should lower its academ­ic standards to promote diver­sity. Eliminating the discrepan­cies in test scores among races is the answer to the diversity problem, she said. 
"The more the nation can make the test scores more even; Lhe more diverse our col­lege will he," Hazell said. "But we shouldn't lower our stan­dards. We should make the t11sts [SAT and ACT] fairer." 
The stereotype will occur until there is more diversity in the student body, Clement said. But he questions what the Univflrsit.y can offer minorities. 
"Until we make minorities feel comfortable here," Clement said, "we will never have a diverso campus, and the athlelc stereotype will continue." 


-·.__-----, 
Wednesday, September 15, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
COLUMBIA 
U.S.-trained battalion set to battle guerrilla drug trade 
noc;oTi\ 

In 1111 aW•mpl to undcrn1t Urn gtwrrillas wlrn prol'it from tlw drug tradl', Colombia 011 Tw•sday artivatt'd a rww a11ti­11arroth:s IJaU.alion, trai1wd and P(fllipp,.d by the Unitod Statns. 
Analysts say tho nnw army u11il. wltirli was i11cwgurat1~d by l'r1~si<IP11t t\nrln•s Pastrana. sig­11als Llwt llw military is taking a llHJl'P aggrl'SSiVI' Slllll(;(' toward thn gu1•1-rillas -and could pro­pel Uw nParly 40-yPar-old con­llil't into .t rnon• violl'nl plrn..<;11. 
flpavily arnwd IPl'tisl ndwls control vast I.mets ol' the jungle whnr" drug crops an• ,·.ultivat,\d a111I 1•arn l<'ns of millions or dnl­in this country that nxporls the bulk n!'tfw world's cocaine. 
Washington's sponsorship ol' this 950-man hatta!ion demon­strates its growing commitment to lrnlp Colombi,t's besieged gov­crn mnn t. take the oft'nnsiv,i against the drug-linuncccl guer­rillas. 
"With tlw actions of' this now contingent vv,~ will sav1i the liv1is of human hnings around tlrn world," Pastrana declarml at Orn inauguration cnrnmony at thn Tolnmaida military hasn just. south of Bognta. 
Tlw L!nitnd Statos is giving Colombia $289 million in anti­drug aid this year -making it 

tars annually in protnction the No. 3 foreign military airl helicopters bovcrf'd above the Sine,~ 1996. guerrillas of tho money from narcotir,s producers . recipient -uud is working to parade ground as 15 Colombian Revolutionary Arm11cl Forces of 
PAKISTAN 
ILO, UNICEF aid child workers 
ISLAM/\Bi\lJ 

Tlw lntPr11atio11al Labor Organization launrlwd a pro­gram Tul'sday to hl'lp morp tha11 7,ll00 Pakistani rhildrnn who work wit.Ii dangf'rous 1'11Pmkals lo 111akP surgical 1)q11ipm1•11L. much ol' which is s1•nt to tltt• l111itPd StatPs. 
Tlw JLO nnd lJNICEl· dPsig­natPd $500,000 -donaliicl by an Italian tradP 1111io11 l'ndPnt· lion -lo sP11d llw d1ildrP11 to sdwol. monitor tlw work li1rc11. irHTPasP awarPn<•ss in Pakistan a11rl proll'ct d1ildn•11 who do work l'rom hazards on tlw job. 
Tlw groups lwpt) lo end llw use of child labor in Llw ind us-try. said Slrnngjie Li. the II.O's program 011ic1)r in Pakistan. 

The production or surgical instrunrnnts is dangerous brn:aus,• of tlw chnmicals usnd, as wPII as tlw mntal cutting, grinding, heat trnalnwnt and sandblasting involvnd. For their d'forl. the childrnn ,i:re paid from $5.50 to $28 a month. 
It is nstimaterl tlwt 3.3 mil­lion t·hildrP11 undnr tlw age of 14 work in Pakistan. The gov­CH n nw11 l says about 7,000 work in the surgical nrnnul'ac­turing industry. 
Thn 11.0 said elimirrnling child labor in a poor country like Pakistan, where tho aver­ag11 annual income is barely put together an additional emer­soldiers climbed up ropes into Colombia, or FAHC, have consol­girncy package the chopp«>rs idated their r:ontrol ovnr somn based on and simulated 40 percm1t of the countryside,

''With the actions ofthis
Bogotu's an assault on making it perilous for lrnlicopter·
new contingent we will
request for a drug lab. borne police alone to destroy $:iOO million save the lives ofhuman Until this drug crops and laboratorins. more. year. U.S. anti­Over tlw past two ynars, coca
beings around 
Washington narcolics aid cullivalion increased by 170 per­
the world." 
i,; nquipping to Colombia cnnt in two southern Colombian th11 battalion went exclu­stat(1s, according to Col. with every­sively to the L1!01wrdo c;allngo, tho anti-nar­
Andres Pastrana 
thing from !8 police, an cMics policn cornmandnr.
Columbian president
Ull-1 N lwli-cffoctivo The new battalion will bn 
cople rs to night-vision goggles and uni­forms. 
U.S. Ambassador Curtis W. Kammun looked on during Tuesday's ccrnmony as six army 
$800, would lw a lnng and arduous Lask. As a result, a main focus of the program is to get tho children out of danger­ous workplaces. Li said. 
Pakistan exports morn than $125 million nach year in sur­gical instruments, the govern­ment says. 
Tlw industry has come under prnssurn l'rom American rights groups and trade unions, which have demanded a tolal ban on Pakistan-made instru­nrnnts because of the use of child labor. 
But onn I1.0 oHicial said ban­ning thn imports was not the answer because manufacturers w1-)rn trying lo eliminate their use of child labor. 
M>'S WEDNESDAY M:GHf ~GOUT 
investmnnt basnd in tlrn hoart of' that zone al until the country's big drug car­Trns Esquinw,. a base w!wrP the tels were dismantled and guer­military is creating a Joint rillas and right-wing paramili­l11telligence Command with U.S. tary groups incremrnd their role guidance. It is PXpPded to Im up in the industry. and running by (ktobm·. 
Report: Multiple births rising in U.S. 
A<>oci:lleJ l'ress 
WASIIINGTON 
The number of babies 
arriving in twins, triplets and 
more has increased markedly 
in the lust two decades, as 
fertility drugs soar in popu­
larity and women wait longer 
to have children. 
The increase is particularly striking among older women: More twins were born lo women in their late 40s in 1997 than in all of the I980s. according to a report released Tuesday by the National Center for Health Statistics. 
"Imagine being 48 years old and having quadruplets," said John Kiely, a professor of pediatrics at Children's Hospital Medical Center of Cincinnati. "Up until recently. women that old couldn't even get pregnant." 
Overall, the increase in multiple births between 1980 and 1997 is unprecedented, researchers say. 
The number of infants born in twins jumped 52 percent to more than 104,000 babies in 1997. The number born in larger groups quadrupled to more than 6,700 births. 
The steep climb is attrib­uted largely to older women, who are more likely to have a naturally occurring multiple birth to begin with. They're also likely to encounter trou­ble getting pregnant and therefore more likely to try fertility drugs. 
Twenty years ago, women didn't wait so long to start families. "Now they're in the work force and they want to develop a career" before giv­ing birth, said Dr. Louis Keith. president of the Center for the Study of Multiple Births al Northwestern Universitv Medical School. 
Also, tfrn science has kept up with the social trends. 
In the Iatn 1970s, doctors began using hormonal drugs, which prompt women lo pro­duce several eggs at a lime. Their use skyrocketed in tho late l 980s. as techniques to help fertilize the eggs -both inside and outside the womb -grew in popularity. 
Researchers estimate that about one-third of the increase is due to older women having babies, with two-thirds attributable to fer­tility treatments. 
Double Take 
. More twins were born to 
women in their late 40s in 
1997 than in all of the 
1980s. 
. Twins are about nine times as likely to be under 
3.3 pounds than infants 
born alone. 
. The number of infants born in twins jumped 52 
percent to more than 
104,000 babies in 1997. 
Despite warm and fuzzy publicity surrounding large births, the trend is not all good news. 
Babies born in groups ­partir:ularly groups of three or more -are more likely to die as infants or lo be dan­gerously small, which can lead to vision and hearing impairments, mental retarda­tion and developmental delays. 
Twins are almost live times as likely to die in their first year as single births, and babies from triplnts, quadru­plets and larger groups are more than 10 times as likely to die as infants. 
Twins are about nine times as likely to be under 3.3 pounds, or "very low birth weight," than infants born alone. The risk is about the same for being "low birth weight," or undnr 5.5 pounds. 
For babies in larger groups, chances arc even greater. More than orrn in thrne of' these babios is und11r 3.3 pounds. compared to just 1 porcent of single births. And 93 percent of them weigh less than 5.5 pounds, compared to 6 percent of single births. 
"They're very high-risk births," said .Joyce Marlin, the report's lead author. Tho increase is lik,ily to continue unless f'crtility spn<'iafists change aggressive trnat­ments, exp(wts say. 
"Som,i of these women hav11 been trying for years to gel prngnant and can't, and it's a groatjoy to them," said Kiely. But. he suggr.sted. th(lre should be a "national d11bate about whether fertility drugs an.ct fertility tr~:,atmcnts are be111g overused. 

Student Award 
RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are 
chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
... :-:Once Nikki Douillet turned down scholarships from Dartmouth and 
<ifMiddlebury for Notre Dame, she never looked back, although that is where she would have found her competition. Nikki starred for the Ski Club last year, capturing five of six first place finishes in the giant slalom, and sweeping all six slalom races for the Irish. Nothing short 
~:~i~~~~s~ ~:~iii~~l;t:~~ i~~~~~i.v~~~n~st~i~d t~i~~~a~a:~cnha:~ ~ifi 
satisfy the Pittsfield, MA native and the club this year. Club President, 
.-. ·"·-All-Division and All-Region honoree, Nikki gave up a trip to the Nationals last year for JPW weekend. A senior Finance major with 
. three appearances on the Dean's List, Nikki also finds time to play soccer and football for Pangborn, while also working on this year's Business Career Forum. The one time Junior Olympian is preparing for a career as a financial analyst. 
Recipients receive <£~ merchandise from the 
.a.& 
VARSITY SHOP 
"11" 
"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
VARSITY Ii.SHOP
R~=-----~~~.........~--­


'I•' 
"Specializing in Authentic 
www.nd.edu/--recsport Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (£~ 
,......_.~.Le--:. aa: ~ ..... 
merchandise courtesy of \JL..,~...........1_:._ ... ..:., and the vij117i; with two locations in the Joyce Center. The 4ir5i0, 

is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
Wednesday, September 15, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Investigator reveals mismanagment in Americorps 
. Jordan testifies on financial problems, poor monitoring 
A.uociatcd Pres. 
W/\SIIIN(/l'ON 

Snriou:; management prob­Jpms conlintw to troubln what l'rnsid1!11t Clinton has called orw of his administration's 
grt\at achinvemcnts, a pro­gram that awards college tuition grants to students in 1ixcha11ge for community S!'r­vice, an investigator told a llmrsc snbcommitlrni Tuesday. Audits ol' tlw Corporation for 
National Service, which runs the AmeriCorps program, "revealed that the corpora­lion's financial management is i.nacleqn11tc," said Luisfl Jordan. Urn agency's inspector general. 
Thal has rnsultt>d in a num­ber of problem:;, including poor mnnitoring of' the activi­ti ns of volunteers at. some sites, Jorda11 told the Ilouse Committee on Education and the Workl'orco's subcommittee on oversight and investiga­tions. 
For example, one volunteer continued to receive AmeriCorps stipend chocks evun though he was being 


hold in an out-of-state prison, affairs in December. but Jordan said, The volunteer .Jordan said, "at this time, I and his project director stoic a have no evidonce from which I total ol' about $4,600 by failing can provide any assurance 

young Americans have done good works through the pro­gram. But administrators have failed to deliver what was promised, he said. 
"Many AmeriCorps pro­grams are sp(~nding taxpayer dollars inappropriately." Hoekstra said. One Indiana student told the Terre Haute Tribune-Star that program organizers told her "that she could count baby-sitting. life­guarding and choir practice as AmeriCorps volunteerism. Now her education award is in jeopardy," he said. 
A former chairman of the Corporation for National Service's board defended the program, saying it has been working hard to correct prob­lems. 
Furthermore, the program's decentralized structure gives slate commissions a key role in management and oversight of local programs, said Bob Hogers, a nepublican who was chairman from October 1996 to June 1999. 
"'Because there arc literally thousands of sites at which !\rneriCorps members serve, it is not feasible, nor was it ever envisioned, that the corpora­tion would directly monitor every local site," Hogers said. 
"In such a decentralized structure there will always b11 a small number of incidents of unscrupulous conduct by pro­gram administrators. /\nd when those people are caught, they are dealt with according­ly." 
to rcpnrt the incarceration and cashing the checks. 
The execu­tive director of another AmeriCorps program falsely certi­fied that his son had earned two education grants 

volunteer's that thA material weaknesses 
"A1any AmeriCorps programs are spending 
taxpayer dollars 
inappropriately." 
Rep. Peter Hoekstra 
Republican 
representative, Mich. 
although the young man had never served in AmeriCorps. That director also stole cash from volunteers by charging them bogus "activity fees." 
The corporation began an effort to straighten out its 
have been corrected." 
Ame.riCorps has been a favorite target of some Republicans in Congress who say it's silly to pay students to do volunteer work. The House voted 

to cut off all money for the program in the liscal year that begins Oct. 1. The Senate has not yet acted on the issue. 
Hep. Peter Hoekstra, R­Mich., chairman of the sub­committee, said thousands of 

7th Annual Emil T. Hofman Lecture (Did your Dad or Mon1 hav~'J1ini?) 
"GLOBAL HEALTH: FROM ABIJAN TO ATLANTA, FROM NEPAL TO NOTRE DAME--­CLOSING THE GAPS IN THE YEAR 2000" 
10:00 

page 12 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
Clinton plans release of Antarctica images 
Associated Press 
CHRISTCHURCH 

President Clinton, stressing the need to protect the world's environment, announced the release 
Wednesday of classified satellite images cov­ering 7,500 square miles of a rare "cold polar-


d e s e r t .. Clinton region of Antarctica to help scientists chart global climate change. The data include seven pre­
viously classified images taken by U.S. spy satellites in the mid-1970s and early 1980s of the so-called Dry Valleys envi­ronment. Satellite pictures tra­rlitio nally are classified because they reveal U.S. intel­ligence-gathering capabilities. 
The nPw images are intend­ed to give scientists a baseline for environmental studies, including the monitoring of the Autarctic ozone hole and the West Antarctic ice sheet. 
"Together with data gath­ered on the ground, the newly released images will help sci­entists better understand eco­logical dynamics in this extreme environment and their response to climate change," a White House state­ment said. 
On the final day of a five-day visit to l\ew Zealand, the pres­ident announced his action during a visit to Christchurch, the jumping off point for American expeditions to Antarctica. He was joined by Sir Edmund Hillary. 
Hillary was the first person to make a land crossing of Antarctica in 1958. Hillary and sherpa Tenzing Norgay ·were the first men to reach the sum­mit of Mount Everest in 1953. 
Shortly before leaving Queenstown, Clinton issued pre-emptive disaster declara­tions for Florida and Georgia as Hurricane Floyd plowed toward the southeastern U.S. coast. The president canceled plans to visit Hawaii in order to return home a day early to oversee emergency efforts related to the hurricane. 
On the first leg of his trip, the president spent three days in Auckland for meetings with Asian leaders and the annual summit of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. Ile took a day off Tuesday in Queenstown to play golf before 
a state visit with Prime Minister Jenny Shipley. Some members of' Clinton's staff used the free time for bungee jumping and jct boat rides. 
Before Clinton's arrival in Christchurch, Shipley was pre­occupied with a state visit by Chinese President Jiang Zemin. 
Clinton was the first presi­dent to visit New Zealand since Lyndon Johnson in 1966. The United States and New Zealand enjoy warm ties despite a breach caused by the government's decision in the mid 1980s to bar nuclear­armed and nuclear-powernd warships from Now Zealand ports. 
The government's anti­uuclear policy, spawned by conr,ern about nuclear testing in the South Pacific and arms­control issues, clashed with the 
U.S. policy of refusing to con­
firm  or  deny  whether  
American  ships  carried  
nuclear weapons.  

The •rift caused the United States to suspend its security obligations to New Zealand imposed under a 1951 treaty that required participating nations -the United States, New Zealand and Australia ­to consult in case of attack in the Pacific and to "act to meet the common danger." 
The United States has urged New Zealand to reverse course on nuclear policy. 
Clinton's speech Wednesday was scheduled to take place at the International Antarctic Center, the headquarters of the U.S., New Zealand and Italian Antarctic programs. 
The pristine areas of Antarctica are closely watched because scientists e·xpect cli­mate changes to be more sig­nificant in the polar regions. Moreover, the Antarctic ice sheet helps regulate the cli­mate of the entire Earth, and preserves a climate history going back more than 400,000 years. The pictures released by 
Judge gives Bobbitt 

probation, no jail time 
"My goal is to stay away from 

Associated Press 
trouble," Bobbitt said after his sentencing in Fallon, about 60 FALLON, Nev. 
miles east of Reno. 

John Wayne Bobbitt dodged a 
Bobbitt made headlines in jail sentence Tuesday and was 
1993 when his then-wife, 

put on pro-
Lorena, cut off 

bation for his his penis at
"My goal is to stay away

part in a 
their apartment

scheme to from trouble." 
in l\1anassas,

steal clothes 
Va. She drove 

from a store. 
off in a fury and
John Wayne Bobbitt 

Bobbitt, 32, 
tossed the sev­
sentenced to probation

and five co­
defend an ts had pleaded guilty to attempted grand larceny and other charges in a plea bargain. An estimated $140,000 in clothing was stolen from a store that has dosed. 
Judge Archie Blake put Bobbitt on probation for five years and ordered him to pay $5,000 restitution. 
Bobbitt said he didn't know the clothing had boen stolen. 
ered organ out the car window. It later was reattached. 
His wife argued she'd bef"n the victim of an abusive husband and was found innocent by nm­son of insanity. 
Bobbitt said Tuesday he hasn't. spoken to her since. "The last thing I said to her was 'I want a divorce,"' he said. He now lives in Niagara Falls, N.Y. 

Clinton, taken by military satellite, show a detailed view of the Dry Valleys region of the Tra,nsantarctic Mountains, a 
i,900-foot-long range that splits the cast and west regions of Antarctica. 
The region pictured is near the U.S. Mc~urdo Station, an observatory for the interna­tional global positioning sys­tem. 
The newly released pictures are modified versions of fine­resolution images taken by spy satellites. The White House used Clinton's announcement to polish Vice President Al Gore's credentials as an envi­

"Consider this an open invitation to discuss your insurance needs in my new office." 
Being in good hands is the only place to be~" 
ronmentalist as he heads into the presidential race. 
A White House statement said the administration, at Gore's urging, began an initia­tive in 1991 to declassify data for scientific research. Last month, Gore announced the declassification and release of 59 satelllite images of the Arctic to help scientists study the interaction between polar ice caps and global warming, the statement said. 

UJe Keep it Simple as 1 • 2 • 3 
1 -Ille buy at special pricing direct from the manufacturer. 2 -We supply other diue shops through our 
warehouse. 3 -We sell gear through our website (www.diuingdeals.com) or you can buy direct from our store in Niles, MI at the same great warehouse prices. 
PR ICE GUARANTEE We Will Beat Any Local Shops Price + A Free Gift 
GREAT LAKES DIVING CENTERS 
216 E. Main 
Downtown Niles. Ml 

A DIVER'S WAREHOUSE STORE'., 
616-683-4502 

Professional Writers in America's Golden Age of Print 

Wednesday, September 15, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
«:J1999 ERNST & YOUNG llP 
\
; \\
. 
. . . '·, '. ·-, ' ' ' 
'""'-@--t<W; 


Going up. 

As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that counts. At Ernst & Young, you can have endless learning opportunities working with leading companies in leading industries. So when you get to your destination, you'll belong there. Ride with us. www.ey.com 
FORTUNE 
10~~~ ,. 
~IEI 
mWIii FIi 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 14 BSERVER Wednesday, September 15, 1999 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre D,m,. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Noire Dame. lN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rngern  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pctdle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kes.skr 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MAR\"s EDITOR: Noteen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAG:Ell: Brvan Lurz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat 
SvsTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLI.ER: Timothy Lane 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: !oe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OmcE MANAGERIGENE!W. INf0..............631-7471 
FAX......... ••··•••<o····· ••·••· .............................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE......................................631-5313 NEWS................. ....................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........ ··············································63 l-4543 observer.spom. ]@nd.edu 
SCENE........... ············· ·······························631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARY'S............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site athttp://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updares ofcampus news, sports, tearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-rhe 
movies/music for 
weekly student reviews
minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afrer 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor. Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views ofrhe aurhors and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Obsen-er. Viewpoint space is a,•ailable to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lecrers is encouraged. 
Q,mriom regarding Observer policies ,hou!d he direct­ed to Editor in Chief Michd/e Krupa. 
Cut it out. I am sick and tired of hearing people try to out-Catholic each other. 
On the one side of the gay issue, you hear that God would not abide by the discrimination against homosexu­als. On the other, the claim rises that the Catholic Church does not accept homosexual activity as normal and, in fact, believes it to be disordered. 
This issue always seems to be at the heart of any 'Tm­more-Catholic­than-you" debate. Many other issues come and go on these very pages that, in some way or another, are discussed by the Vatican or in the Bible. 
But here is the cold, hard fact. Much as any other religion, there is diversity in Catholicism -diversity of thought and diversity of purpose. 
Just because someone doesn't think that a rape victim should lose her life attempting to birth that criminal's baby d.oesn't make him less Catholic. Just because someone wants to ensure that the baby's life is spared -regardless of the circumstances of conception ­doesn't make him more Catholic. Catholicism is not a nature of degrees. Catholicism is like Islam, Judaism and Buddhism. It is a group of human beings gathered together in the firm belief that God (Allah, Yahweh, Buddha) has a plan for their existence and that they are to follow that plan. But in every major reli­gion, there is difference of opinion as to how that plan relates to the modern world. 


I could be wrong about this, but the way that I remember being taught, you can quote Pope John Paul ll all you want. but unless he has invoked the doc­trine of infallibility for the particular statement, he is speaking only as a Catholic leader and not directly from divine inspiration. 
Thus people are able to take the pope's guidance and the sometimes­changing teachings of' the Church and reflect them in their lives. God never changes his mind on what is allowable and what is not. That the Church can change the format of the Mass and the way that prayers are said only means leaders of the Church think the new way is closer to divine will. In the sante wav, when the Church decides that homose~­uals are not inherently sinful but that the homosexual act is, it does not change God's view on what is sinful. It is only that Church leaders have reached what they believe to be a clarification. 
Quoting the Bible at each other, dig­ging up passages that support this view or the other is a good way to connect with people who all have the common experience of Christianity. But it is pointless and stupid if neither listens to the other's point and simply tries to prove how much of the Bible and the Papal documents he has read. Then, to top it off, each spends time thumbing his nose and using multi-syllabic and com­plex verbiage in order to extrapolate upon his thesis. Thus, each side will only stand forward and say, "I am smarter than you and I am more Catholic than you, so I am right." 
Stop it. What this debate boils down to is the University. Father Malloy is hiding behind our school's Catholic character and hoping those people who think they are more Catholic than the rest will run to its defense. 



The policy that limits ads for unrecog­nized homosexual groups was always present. It was simply never in writing. Now that it is in writing, I worry for the same reasons I worried three years ago when Father Malloy introduced the Spirit of Inclusion statement. I worried the statement was a way for the University to get good press and get out of the newspapers without giving homo­sexual students any real status or men­tion. It is a completely non-binding state­ment that simply indicates that no dis­crimination will be tolerated in a loving "Catholic" institution. 
However at the same time, it allows the University to take a group of alumni and EXCLUDE them from simply saying congratulations to graduates in an ad. This group is a support group for gay and lesbian alumni. It is not a group that has tried to advertise changing the Catholic point of' view on homosexual acts. It is merely a group that is trying to INCLUDE recently graduated students in the Notre Dame family and give them supe.ort because of who they are, not in spite of it. 
So everybody just stop skirting the issue and throwing Catholicism into the argument. Let us all go with the basic understanding that homosexuals are not in-and-of themselves against Catholic principles. From there, on equal footing, we can discuss why such a group would not be allowed to print an advertisement about where they meet and who they are. 
Matthew Loughran is a 1998 graduate and former news editor ofThe Obseroer. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
I 5E£. $OM£. 
WATER 
Di\/V\AGE ON 
YOUR 
CEILING, 
-t,...___.,.,.,.,,,...,,=-::-,..f E8 t: 
Q) 
a 
'5 
~ 
~ 1-,...,.....;_,_~-----'-,lo.,"-,~~ 

SCOTT ADAMS 
Tl-lti..T'S USUA.LLY 
THE FIR5T SIGN 
THAT THE. ROOF WILL COLLAPSE. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Profound thoughts arise only in debate, with a possibility ofcounterargument, only when there is a possibility of expressing not only correct idea but also dubious ideas." 
Andrei Sakharov 


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, September I5, 1999 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Forget football program 
Al tlw Michigan gamn two weeks ago, one of the com{nentators rnmarknd that only live NCAA schools have winning records against Nolrn Damn. Now notml for academic exe1!Iloncn rather llllln f'oothall gr<'atn,1ss. ttw University or Chien.go. Yale and Columbia w11rn llircP of the livo schools named in addition lo the University of Michigan. 
Alfor our 1rnrl'ornmncns tlw past two wteeks, W!l hardly have a c:hanct> ol' finishing tlw season i11 thn lOp 25. much less catchi11g tlw likes of' Mi<'hi~an. Tlwrdorc. I suggest we cul our loss11s (sav­ing ours«•lvPs the cmbarassnrnnt of further displays nf inept time 111anago1111•11ll and drop tlrn l'ooll.mll program. If wn conver!nd the foothall scholarships to acadmnic onPs, wo might have a chance of catching Chicu~o. Yalo and Columbia in lhe rankings that real­ly rnattnr. 
Kyle Smith 
Senior, off-campus 
Scpremher I), 1999 
--=====~---_-_-_-_-_-_-_ -_ -_ -_-_-_ -_ -_-_-_-~--_ 

Respect lives of King, Beethoven ­all children 
l.ifo does have tlw ability or homogenizing tlrn black and white lo mak1i gray. That's why Catholics am then1: to make SllllSll of tlw gray (a.k.a. mix of' right and wrong), again. 
WP arn called to bn witnesses of the truth in Christ Jesus. and not to judge 1wople but to judge tlrn actions thny take that we may btitlPr he!µ others choose bt1twecn right and wrong in this world. That's why I am writing this letter in response lo "Quality of' lifo important in abortion debate," a lotter pub­lished in L1111 Sept. IO tidition of The Obscrvnr. 
Beforn I proctied. I'm going to ask you all to lake a short men­tal quiz. 
It won't bti taxing. I promise. Simply answer yes or no to the following situations: 
/\.. The mothPr of a family of 14 is pregnant again. Iler hus­band -the father of all 14 or these childnin -has a history of alcohol abusn and mental disorders which frequently causes him to abuse his other childrnn. The mother herself is already worn out from trying to care single-handedly for her large family and doesn't feel she can cam for another child at this point. On top of all this, two sons in the family also have a history of alcohol abuse, one of the children is in a men­tal institution, und none of the other children have steady, depondable jobs with which to support mom and dad. Abnrtion or Not? 
B. A ponr black family in the South is 1ixpecting a firth child. This family, bncausH of its skin color. alrnady has dil'liculty rnc•1iving help and are already at the barn minimum poverty ltwel. The outlook for their pre­sent children does not look bright. Abortion or Not? 
C. A woman is engaged to a man some yuars older than sho; she finds out that she is facing an unplanned prrgnan­cy. The child she is carrying is definitely not the son of her iianc6, and he is worrit1d for her sake and !'or their rupution in tlrnir community. This child could put a serious strain on their relationship and on any 
future children. Abortion or Not'! Okay, everybody finished'? Herc are the results: 
A. If' you answered Abortion for/\., congradulations! You just abort1\d Ludwig Van Beethoven! 
B. If you answered Abortion for B, again, congradulations! You just aborted Martin Luther King, Jr. 
C. If you answered Abortion for C, YOU WIN THE GRAND PHIZE! You, my friend, have just aborted Jesus of Nazareth. 
The point in all this is that yes, sometimes we arc faced with circumstances beyond our control. Yes, sometimes we are faced with situations that are not our fault. But everyone has choices to make in this life. The way and the conditions into which you were born may have been completely beyond your control, yet your life is still your own, and you have it to do with as you will. And at the end of your life, you will have to account for your life to God, and His is the final call. people! 
If you want to improve some­one's quality of life, does that moan that you deny them the chance to live their life to its fullest and natural conclusion? Adoption is an option, though it can be very painful. Anything is better than not even giving someone the chance to live! 
Or at the end of your life would you like to stand before the Alpha and Omega and explain to I Iim why it was best for this child that you murder it'? Forgive me, but I have never known you. 
If you want to improve the quality of life for improverished 
, children that badly, why don't you look into counseling, men­toring or adopting a child? 
Anything's got l.o be better than the alternative: murder. 
Katherine Hoppe 
Freshman Lyoos Hall Seprember 13, 1999 
O
THE 

BSERVER page 15 
Booing at Davie is booing at team 
In the words of the great philosopher John "Bluto" Belushi, "Was it over when the Germans bombed Pearl Harbor'? ... llell no, and it's not over now." I am writing partly in respornrn to the articll• by al.um Kevin Keane, and partly because I feel that something should be said concerning the rest of the final Notre Dame football season of this millennium. 
I am not writing in the defense of Bob Davie or the football team Like manv other students and alumni I feel that we very ·well should be 3­0 and rolling into 1.his weekend with a full head of steam. Instead, wo are 1-2, with many ques­tioning our ability to defeat a team like Michigan State. Mr. Keane stated yesterday in his lottl'r that, "I do not believe that it is a bad thing to boo the coach while showing support for the players." When I read his letter. I couldn't believe my eyes. How can we expect our playors lo rally br;hind their leader when we, tho studimt hody, have no respect for him. This is not to say that after the football season is linished, changes might not have to be made, but witl1 nine games loft in our season. this is the worst time to turn our backs on Coach Davie. 
Coming to Notre Dame for the first time on a football weekend is an incredible experience for almost any fan, regardless of age, sex or association to this school. Going to the pep rally, tailgating and sitting in a stadium with 80,000 other football fans is a weekend that is 
. not easily forgotten. I can only imagine what one of my friends or relatives would say to me if' they went to the pep rally only to lind the stu-
DeBartolo decor is deadly 
I note with equal doses.of exaspera• tion and bemusement that the cor-~ don sanitaire has been further . ~
l.

tightened in DeBartolo Hall. Splayed with comic redun­
· ,,_ • dancy at the entrance to 
every classroom are for­

and traffic are, and mal prohibitions on the DeBartolo feels like a introductions of food •',,'---hospital. It is bare 
.,,
and drink. While I do understand the way 


,,
in which the practi­cal and the moral converge cleanli­ness, godliness and the rest I am 
I 

-all the same dis­I turbed by the ongoing fetishizing of this building. In 
I
other words, just saying 
Uno" to 

I I
comestibles 

I 
I I
and potables is 
I !
symptomatic of a larger prob­lem, namely 
I

the campaign against the I signs of campus life. 
The walls of DeBartolo glare and gall in their nakedness. They are n()t aHowed to bear a single announcement of ev~nts, lectures, litur­gies, recitals. films or the other elements which, ~ taken together. make up . what many faculty and admin­istrators wistfullv call the "intel• loctual milieu." A.nd while it is true that there is a smattering of glass cases in whic)l posters are displayed prophylactical­ly. they are located such that they absorb into the overall sterility of the environment. Now, one might respond that O'Shaughnessy Hall is plastered with announcements. This fact is, however, overridden by a more pertinent one: only a small portion of students l.ake courses there. (Are we asked to infer that 
holds pride of place in the educational enterprise at Notre Dame, will in its lnok and feel continue to be just another brick in the wall. 
Louis MacKenzie 
Chair 

Deparcment ofRomance Languages and Lit~raturcs 
September 8, 1999 

dent body of this UnivPrsity booing the head · football coach. Now, I'm not going to lectun• on school spirit or anything like that but simple respeet. dignity and pride. If you l'onl so nega­tively about r.oar.h Daviti or tho athlntic direc­tor. shut your mouth and put your hands al your side when others drner or dnn 't nven go the pep rally. Often, the loudest sound is the sound of silence. 
We are not going to win a national champi­onship this year, and we will most likely have some v1ffy clusn games beforn Urn season mids, hut as mad as I am about thn Purduo and Michigan games, [ will still cheer for our school and for Coach Davie. If a f'nw r.alls WP.re mado in our favor and our last possessions in each game wero orchestrated a little bettnr, we would hn 3-0, but that is just how it goes. It is done and part of tho past. 111 the varsity weight room, this year's scheduln is postod on tho wall, and them am sheets of papPr covering thn dato and name ol' every other team nxcept f'or that of' the next opponent. Our focus is on Michigan Statn. I would !ikP nothing more than to see tlw Irish pound the Spartans this wenkond and continue into the season. Mr. Keane, you may be angry, but you are not right. 
John Scolaro 
Junior, Keenan Hall 
Grant Gholson 
Sophomore, Keenan Hall September 14, 1999 

O'Shaughnessy is such DcBartolo's -. ~ inferior that it is to be the sullied ---"' -~. place while its successor must ~ ever remain the scrubbed ~----· place?) DeBartolu is where most of the action 
;. "--.... \ and antiseptic, ,. '···-. "" ··-~ which means that ·-,~-~in terms of cam­pus life it is dead •• and dour. .. 
In my opinion and, more importantly, in the opinion of every stu­dent with whom I have spoken about this issue, it is time to defetishize DeBartolo. While it would indeed be scan­dalous to paper the interior of the Main Building with posters, there is nothing at all sacrnd about DeBartolo. It is time to ani­mate its walls with the colors, the shapes and the promises ofcampus life. It is time to abandon vague ideals of cleanliness and order and to let the vital cacophony of information (dis)grace its stairwells. Otherwise, DeBartolo llall, which 


R E 0 N 
page 16 Wednesday, September 15, 1999
O
THE 
BSERVER 




Got an itch for hitting colorful balls into their homes? Scene re 
discovering the good, bad and ugly concerning the 
By ANDREW McDONNELL 
Scene Writer 
Standing slightly slumped with shoulders squared, arms iockud against evenly spaced hands, eyes gaz­ing i11te11tly down, breath bated. 
A slow. steady backswing, then push l'orwwrd to lay a smooth. well-centered kiss to the ball's midriff. 
A gentle roll driven by lhe metal-headed putter's pillow-soft caress. 
The new .iourney commences across a stubbled, green earth. The magnificent dimpled orb thrusts into a triangular block, finds itself repelled, drifts between the outstretched legs of a snarling, brown­haired beast -as magnificent a fiberglass monkey as has ever straddled artificial turf -and then, relentless and undaunted, the ball slides towards his home. 
The hole. 
The cup. 
The earth's very womb. 
Regardless of the name one uses, the ball rolls deli­cately toward this beckoning, yawning crater, dances around its waiting lip in one tantalizing spin and then, yes -God yes! -dives serenely into the depths of the cavern. 
Miniature golf. 
There is no exhilaration more severe than that which follows a hole-in-one; no satisfaction deeper than that achieved by t<!pping in for par. No one ever claimed this part of the country is the mecca of excitement and culture, but if there's one thing it does have, it's three miniature golf courses. 
Hacker's Golf N Games 
A golf course's quality is measured as much by its surroundings and clientele as it is by the quality of its greens. Hacker's Golf N Games is possessed by a cer­tain ... well, a special sort of ... homegrown, folksy quality. 
That is to say, it has a slightly rougher edge, bear­ing a closer resemblance to the Patrick Swayze of "Road House" than the Patrick Swayze of "Ghost." 
That is to say, much of the clientele contributes to the hard rock. Jeff Foxworthy family reunion milieu that Hacker's manages to maintain. 
If any sociology majors are consid­ering a senior thesis entitled "The evolution of 1980s haircuts and mustaches," they should definitely place Hacker's on the list of research venues. The "hockey head" and "mullet" thrive in 
o p e n cohabita­t i o n alongside all of the missing links in this iso­lated envi­ronment. 


For the putting purist, Hacker's offers a wide array of course designs among its 18 holes. It starts off' in a fairly stan­dard set of holes placed atop slopes, and then gradually crescendos to a symphony of treacherous deflection-shots that can leave even the most adept golfers tearing at their eyebrows. 
Hole No. 9 of Hacker's, in particular. is a source of frustration for many novices. It features an unusual horseshoe-shaped hill that may only be conquered through the proper combination of force and rnstraint. Love and hate themsnlves intersect at this hole in a frenzird clot of frustration or bliss, depend­ing on whether the stupid, stupid ball decides it wants to bounce over the course's boundaries into an "unplayable" stream. Stupid ball. 
A note to potential Hacker's customers -the man­agement of this establishment emphatically discour­ages people who are tempted to pick up tho golf balls, yell at them aud promisn horrible, painful demise for that ball and all of that ball's family, extended and immediate, if that ball doesn't clean up its act. People of such temperament should try one of the less prudish establishments. 
Mr. and Mrs. Hacker have every right to be proud of their little course. The greens are fairly well-main­tained and are bordered by sumptuous red brick. Dotted with the most fashionable pine benches and astonishing shrubbery, Hacker's demonstrates an intense commitment to simplicity, tempered by a devotion to natural structure. 
Its centerpiece is an extremely unusual fountain ­immense in size and peculiarity. The fountain appears to have been sculpted from a small mountain of dried blood. It forms a monstrosity that rises from a lumpy base to the heights of a small staircase topped with an enormous block. of a strange coagu­lated blood-substance. From the top of this block a steady blanket of water unfolds and pours forth from an opening in its top, serving as the main source for a number of small streams that meander through the course. Do not drink from these. 
Putt Putt Golf and Games 

Putt Putt is the White Castle of miniature golf -a powerful conglomerate that has spread like spilled paint across the nation. It is the heaviest, sturdiest player in the world of miniature golf with more than 250 facilities, and over one billion games played over the past 40 years. 
The location on Main Street in Mishawaka provides an example of the sort of challenge present­ed by the Putt Putt corpora­tion. Three pris­tine 18­
an.·•··•· ames Mini 
. Location: 313
. ~~.~ati•g~:·•~·~1.~.·•...·~..,(M.~.in···,
· \·.. :·;;M,i~bawJk,t: :; ·· Niles 
. Phone: 259..4111 . Phone: 616} 
·i~~1it./1 ~'li 
(out or five sham 
hole mini-lynxes composo a fairly simplistic course, and there are really two ways to describe it. 
The nice, polite way: 
It is tho Hemingway/Haymond Carvor-esque con­cept behind this course's design that rnakes it work the way it does. The Putt Putt course says so mud1 more than its physical appearance initially tolls most people. It isn't the course's quality that really mat­ters. It's the underlying course suggested by the available course that matters and that makes Putt Putt the special place that it is. 
The decorations on the course consist largely of vivid orange barriers and ramps, reminding golfers of the fondness and respoct all humanity holds for the orange and all its tangy cousins. The outstanding features, whose outstandingness is highlighted by their rarity, are the unforgettable elephant and giraffe sculptures. They are not functional and do not respond to sharp blows to their ankle bones, but the effect that they add to this course aesthetically is immeasurable. 
The straight-forward way: 
Despite its magical giraffe and elephant ensemble, this is a fairly crappy place. 
Putt Putt faces directly into Main Street's gray exis­tence. It has very little natural vegetation, and for the mini-golfer who likes to jumpstart his or her game with a little bit of danger, its lack of real water haz­ards is disappointing to say the least. 
This is the parking lot of mini-golf courses, and while it is a reasonably clean and at times challeng­ing parking lot, it has all the charm and character of well-smoothed cement. Well-smoothed cement is nice and all, but who really heeds it? 
State Line Mini Golf 
Alongside the churning, blur of State Hoad 31/933, 
<Qglf State 

Wednesday, September 15, 1999 0Its1:RvER page I 7 

r ~, ,g-I-i'l;:f..~ ,1='. ~ ,-,~
ll
l~ ~ -~ l ~ ' Iii l 

-~ iews three local mini-golf courses, 
animal-laden locales. 
a lrPaSttr1• li1•s buril'd in Urn rnressPs of' a Dairy ()1wP11 parking lot. 
Stat,• l.irw Mini-Coif iim'l going to try lo r1\ach out and grab you. Thnrn isn'l a f'1;ishi11g sig11 Lhal lilarns througli lhn mix ol' mini-malls and billboards to lure v11u i11Lo ils c11v1!. 111 !'ucl, llwr1• isn't a ~ign for this placn ut all. 
S!.!\IC is rnmt'ortab!I• with its,df. and it domrn'l nc«id lo bat its 1\yelids or conw 11p l'rum lrnhiud and grind with you on tlw danc1\ llrmr to grah your nye (or any body llitrl for that maller). 
SI.MC dot\sn't gRze inlo your eyes just to snn its rolkction or consis­tnntly turn tlw cnnvnrsation to itself. It wants to Lalk about you; it wants to know you: to rnally know you outside of' what your major is. what sports you play or who your parents are. SI.M(; wants lo know the !'utter lwhind tho puttm. 
This is by far the best miniature­gnlf cours1i in the greater or lesser Michiana arna, and it can be found nestled trnh ind the Statn Line Dairy Qtiet!ll (th11 second DQ on the right side of 31 as you head away from campus and toward Michigan.) 
It is the oddest feeling to approach a Dairy Queen countt~r surrounded by people gnawing at Blizzards and say to tlrn m11ploy1w working the register, "I would like to play miniature golf." But whnn Llrnsn words are spoken. the employc1i laughs and then disappears ­presumably to fetch the Dobermans. 
H's as if tlw Dairy Qmien is really just an duborutti front for some illicit mini­golf coursn. Upon his return. though, llw 1nnployen bears balls and putters and slides them across a Dairy Queen 
countnr. 
The price -a mere $1.75 per game. It just 

•
1ne 

84-0202 



can't bl' hPut! 
It's an historic price that demands rnminiscing: "Yup. we usud to putter al.Juul, that's what WI\ callnd il back tlwn. puttm-ing about, and oh ho! the h111111nade was so good back then. and a gamn was $1.75, and lhnn for a wooden 11ick11l you could get a box of Good N' Plenties the size of a bloated tortois1>.. and they were different back then cause Urn pink licorice wasn't introduced until Urn frncr-thinking 1950s." 
The course is set right behind the Dairy Qm,<in and is surrounded hy a somewhat wooded urea. It offers well­
ke pt putting greens bordernd by 
a laid­
course has a 

number of genuine 
trees big 
ones, a fea­
t u r e 
rarely 
found in 
standard, 
streamlined courses. It also features a number of very nice stone bfrnches where golfers can rest, chat and eat their Dairy Queen ice cream between holes. 
The course design is just challenging enough to remain entertaining. It doesn't cause a whole lot of ya".Vning, and it doesn't induce lengthy bouts of foul sailor words. It's a happy medium. 
The second hole is worth $1.75 bv itself. It features the shape of the infa·­mous mini-golf gorilla, fierce in visage, prowling his way through the short grass in search of fiberglass bananas and the man who inadvertently slew this gorilla's older brother, Xaba, in a Detroit wine bar when the poor beast was mistaken for a defective electric bull. 
There are untold stories in this 
course. Shadowy pasts boil 
beneath the surface of this 
fenced world. The 
carnesl squirrel of 
hole 15, clutching 
his thick paws to 
his chest -he 
has a secret 
to bestow 
u p o n 
t h o s e 
who will 
I is ten. 
They 
no c d 
pause 
o n I y 
o n c e a n d place t h 11 i r ears to his glimmering buck teeth. Do so. and a story shall rise through that paint­ed grin to make the ears tingle. The grinning, green dinosaur ol' hole 17 -what 
might his eyes have seen that make them burn black with knowledge? Why, oh why. is that smile so sure'? 
Heasonably priced, pleasantly arranged and brimming with lifn's caged mystery, State Line Mini-Golf is surely the best bet for Michiana Putters. 

RESTAURANT REVIEW 

-
By KATIE WILHELM 
Scene W ricer 

Just minutes from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, Siam pro­vides avid and novice Thai connoisseurs a unique alternative to dining hall food. 
Parking is a little out of the way, but once inside the restaurant, diners are whisked away from the metropolitan scenery of downtown South Bend. The 
restaurant is eerily quiet, but the peach 
walls and upholstery have an immediate
Siam Thai Restaurant 
soothing effect. Splashes of purples, blues • 
and gold are introduced in the cultural pic­
tures and statues scattered throughout the
. Location: 211 N. Main St. 
room, foreshadowing the authentic cuisine 
. Hours: 11 a.m -2 p.m., Mon.-Fri. 
to come. 

5 p.m. -9 p.m., Mon.-Sat. The wait for seats is short, even without 
reservations, and the small Taiwanese
. Phone: 232-4445 
hostess easily accommodates a party of six. 
Though the restaurant's dining room is 
small, tables are spaciously situated and
. Atmosphere ••,•• 
private conversations are ensured.
. Food Quality -&l,\\fdf1•u 
Siam's comprehensive menu provides a 
. Price•••*'' variety of tastes to choose from. For those not familiar with Taiwanese cuisine, the
. Service••• 
menu's layout is helpful. Different courses 
. General Feeling •••~l and styles are grouped in appropriate cate­gories, including "Seafood," "Vegetarian,"
(out ol live shamrocks) "Classic Curries" and "Typical Dishes." Each dish then is described in mouth­watering detail. The restaurant's system of identifying degrees of spiciness with asterisks allows the adventurous to challenge their tastebuds, while more mild diners can enjoy delicious flavor without the heat. Siam takes its Thai cuisine seriously, and the appetizers provide a preview of the diverse tastes packed into each dish. With eight selections, diners have the option of meats, vegetables, seafood or tofu, each made bold with Siam's sweet and sour, herb or special Thai sauce. The Thai egg rolls and fried tofu are particularly worth trying, as they have won acclaim even from those who had never before believed tofu had flavor. Appetizers range in price from $2.50 to $6.95. Soups sosting about $3.50 are available to follow appetizers throughout the meal. The Tom Yam Goong brings shrimp, sliced mushrooms and lemon grass together in a spicy broth, while Gang Jurd incorporates pork, tofu and glass noodles in a lighter broth. Entrees at Siam Thai Restaurant focus on a few basic elements. Chicken, shrimp, carrots, broccoli, onions and peppers appear in some form in almost every dish. However, depending on the order these can be made savory with fresh crushed garlic, basil leaves, pineapple, cashew nuts and peanuts or coriander. Added to this is one of a variety of sauces perfected by Siam. Dishes are finished with any one of their traditional Thai hol and spicy curry sauces, hot chili paste, ginger sauce, brown oyster sauce or mild peanut curry sauce. The result is deliciously contrasting yet. complimenting flavors in each bite. Siam Thai H.estaurant's menu also includes a complete selection of noodle and rice dishes. Pad See Ewe and Pad Thai are undoubtedly among the most popular entrces, and the fried rice continues to please customers. · At Siam Thai Restaurant, seafood is prepared in a most unique way. Crab meat. shrimp and mussels are accented with a Thai spncial hot sauce or mild curry sauce. In the Pia Lard Prik, a fillet of catfish is deep fried until crispy with red and green onions, bell peppers and basil. A special section of the menu exists primarily for v13getarians. Tofu and noo­dles are mixed with a rich assortment of vegetables, and salads unite both sour and spicy Thai ingredients over a bed of fresh lettuce. Though the menu is extensive overall, it does lack a considerable amount of choices for those with special diets or for those who prefer healthy choices. When compared to such a wide selection and variety of cntree dishes, Siam's dessert menu also seems meager. Diners have a choice between Thai custard and fried banana topped with vanilla ice cream and maple and chocolate syrup. Prices average $3.00. Food is brought out while still warm, and the friendly waitresses remain close by to respond to any further needs throughout the meal. Entrecs range in price from $6.95 to $10.95, reasonable when considering the generous portions and high quality of the food. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

'The Swamp' not intimidated by national champions 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Pia. 
Florida dropped its humble act. Not that anybody really bought it anyway. 
This is, after all, Tennessee week. And national championships aside, the No. 4 Gators made it clear they still think they're better than the Volunteers. 
Coach Steve Spurrier gave his team the green light to jabber this week. It was a marked difference from last year, when Tennessee came into the game with a five­game losing streak to Florida but in possession of the Southeastern Conference title. 
The Vols tinally beat the Gators 

-
last season. All that did was inspire Florida to return to its old ways. Tht> swagger. it seemed, worked better. 
"I just told them to try to temper what they said," Spurrier said Tuesday. "Hopefully, we won't say more than we can-back up. But I read in the paper today that we were favored by two points. So, how are we supposed to act?" 
So, away they went. 
"They won the national title last year, so I guess they have a little rap right now," safety Marquand Manuel said. "They can rap as much as they want. But they have to fly down on Saturday and prove their point. We're going to prove ours, too." 
The Gators say they don't have enough bulletin-board space to post all the comments they've seen flying out of Knoxville lately. 
Among the most infuriating mate­rial included one statement made ti1is week by Vols offensive lineman Cosey Coleman, and another made last month by receiver Cedrick Wilson. 
"I don't think they'll be as good as they were last year up front," Coleman said, referring to florida's young defense. "Most of the guys that arc starting now were in the rotation last year, but they weren't as good as the guys starting. So, you're looking at the second string," 
Last month, Wilson was asked about playing at the Swamp, where Florida carries a nation-best. 29­gam e winning streak into Salurday's game. 
"Playing Florida in the Swamp doesn't mean any more to me than playing Kentucky in Lexington." Wilson said. "It doesn't mean any­thing to me at all." 
Gators defensive lineman Alex Brown took issue with the lack of Tennessee's respect for Florida Field, where·the Vols haven't won since 1971. 
Like many teammates, Brown also brought up last year's meeting with Tennessee, in which Florida committed five turnovers and missed a field goal in overtime in a 20-17 loss. 

"When thev come in here, I ·expect the st~eak to get to :rn," Brown said. "They don't have room to talk. We slipped up last year. They won in overtime and they won the national championship with an undefeated year. Great. Do it again. Beat us hero and then you can get all the respect you want. We don't lose hen"." 
The dig on Florida's talenl was equally galling to several Gators, who insisted Tennessee's victory last year didn't µrove much. 
"That's extra incentive, I'll put it that way," Manuel said. "They hap­pen to get a muff here, a muff there and win the game and they're superstars'? We'll just go out there and do our job." 
For the most part, the trash talk­ers at Florida drowned out the calmer voices. 
There were, indeed, several play­ers who refused to get baited into the conversation. And there were plenty others who preferred to talk about not talking. 
"If you're from a tough place and you talk a lot, you learn that talking doesn't win you a fight," running back Earnest Graham said. "You can talk, but when it's time to fight, you have to be tough and know how to win." 

Courtesy Tennessee Sports Information Department Tee Martin leads the defending national champion Tennessee Volunteers into Gainesville, Fla. Saturday to take on Southeastern Conference rival Florida Gators in a game that could determine the SEC East Champion. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT  House for rent.  8 bedrooms, two  O'Neill 38 Joe -Thanks for  
NOTICES  GROUPS-Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS Fund event.No sales required.Fund  bathrooms, completely renovated. Call Bill at 675-0776.  TICKETS  NEED -NAVY G.A. TICKETS C. ZIMMERMAN 573-796-2943  carrying me home on Saturday. CAR WASH!!  
SKYDIVE!! Try the ULTIMATE RUSH Training students for over 30 years 1 hour North of South Bend Call for class limes  Rasier days are filling up, so call today.Contact Joe@ 1-BBB-522­4350. Large Physical Therapy Clinic look­ing for part lime employees to do follow up calls. Some filing &  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 For rent-houses & apartments 2994928.  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526 SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS  NEED 5 MICH. ST. TIX Call 631-7745 NEED 2 CHICAGO BEARS TIX; October 3rd vs. New Orleans Saints. Email me at  Sunday, Sept. 19th 10am-3pm at the Alumni/Senior Club Sponsored by Class of 2002 I love.people who understand color.  
GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS 1·800-351-6617  inputting required. Flexible evening hours. Ask for Gerard Call now 233-5754  AVAILABLE 2000-01 4-6 Student Rental. Large rooms, reasonable, awesome bonus room!!  277-6619 WANTED­ DAVE.CARON@BMO.COM  We love you Connolly, oh yes we do.  
LOST & FOUND  Officials: Officials needed for Outdoor Soccer  Details. Dave 291-2209.  ND football tix. AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726  For Sale: 2GA tix: MState, Oklahoma 287-1449  
FOUND: Large male Golden  and Indoor Lacrosse. Earn good money, meet new people, & HAVE FUN! Experience! helpful, bu! we  FOR SALE  ND football tix for sale. AM · 232-2378  Need one Oklahoma Ticket. x4017-Chris  The prior two classifieds are unre• lated.  
Labrador with red collar on campus on 9/8/99. Call 289-9967.  will train everybody. Contact the RecSports office-Brandon Leimbach or Jeff Walker@ 631· 6100, or slop by the office in the  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals!  PM • 288-2726 I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.2726551  Need MSUtix 1-800-257-3244 ext2615 Ted  Hi Joe.  
LOST­ND WALLET & KEYS ON TUES­DAY, 9f7. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL ANALISSA 4-4096.  Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to adopt. Will provide a lif9:time of laughter.love.devotion and opportu­nities  Awesome Beaches,Nightlile!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com 1-800·678-6386  BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT· BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  I need 2-4 ND vs. USC tickets! GA or student tickets. Please call Autumn at 284-5024.  I am very tired. I will be glad to see my bed.  
800-484-4699  code 0019  ++  I NEED 2 TIX FOR THIS WEEK­ 
LOST A palmpilot. Palm V, in a leather casing. Extremely important! If found please call at 4-0870.  FOR RENT  NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!! $20 ·>669 minutes Call 243-9361 , ask for Rob  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY /SELL/TRADE ALL GAMES ALL LOCATIONS  END AGAINST MICH. ST. PLEASE CALL 634-3080. FOR SALE ND FOOTBALL TICK­ Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die.  
WANTED  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412  GREAT PRICES 271-9330 !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!! TICKETMART INC.  ETS. NAVY $55, ASU $65. CALL 289-8048 NEED 2 MSU TIX  Stop SAYING that!  
ND-SMC EVENTS,  FOR SALE  www.ndtickets.com  CALL DAN 634-0959  
...  STUDENT OPENINGS 5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around classes. Scholarships avail www.workforsludents.com/lN 282-2357 DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL YEAR! $1200 TO $2000 THIS MONTH. Part time 4 to 6 hours per week. Call 24 hrs (219) 239-6709 Help wanted at 4 Michiana loca­tions. Great pay, flex. hrs. No Sundays. Apply in person or sand resume 10: FRULLATI CAFE/UP MALL 6501 N. GRAPE RD. #576 MISHAWAKA, IN 46545  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80· $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1 • 800-418-9487. 3-6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­PUS. NOW OR 2000/2001.ROOMS ALSO 272-6306 LOADED 6 Bedrm '00-01 yr. 273-0482 / 234-3831 3 bdrm duplex, remodeled. 503 Eddy. one mile from campus. Appliances, W/D. 273-8332. House for rent. Five bedrooms, two bathrooms, beautiful condi• tion.$1500/mo. Call 6111 at 675-0776.  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 FREE TRIAL OF A BRAND NEW TECHNOLOGY 30 MIN LONG DIS• TANCE CALLS FREE SEND SASE TO G MARKS PO BOX 920528 NEEDHAM,MA. 02492 Bike Huffy 24" 18 gear only 6 mo. old $60 246-0719 after 7pm LAKEFRONT BY OWNER, 3 bdrm. ranch, lg den, 2 car gar.. full base­ment, 3 seas. porch, deck, most ev. new, much more. 15 mi. from cam­pus. 616-663-6308. BUY A NEW PENTIUM 11 450 MHZ HP COMPUTER FOR A GREAT PRICE CALL ERIC @ 4-1882  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++. BUYING GA FOOTBALL TICKETS ALL HOME GAMES ......... . 277-1659 FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412 SPRING BREAK 2000 "THE MILLENIUM" A NEW DECADE... NCE IN TRAV­EL.FREE TRIPS.FREE MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS AND FREE MEALS! 1800-426· 7710 WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM Need tix for Oklahoma, Arizona State. Call Michelle, 233·9037or 631 • 4542,  WANTED:MSU;USCTICKETS CALL:247-1659 TAILGATER Pass wanted for B1 ,Cl. or Green Field. Willing to pay$$$. call 251-0484 2 Mich.St. GA 's for sale. 257-4622 after 7pm. Best offer. Have BC GA's call Kev '0644 Selling two MICH ST GAs: 248-2770 PERSONAL Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual students of ND/SMC meeting each Thurs. For Info call: (877)631-6OUT  Hey Chuk, what are you talking about me being immature? I am the master ot maturity. Missy, yesterday's Missy classified wasn't for you but this one is. Miss you Missy. Gray areas are bad my core paper is still not written but I have 12 hours until it is due Hi Mary Zakas almost there ..... stay on target  

Wednesday, Seprember 15, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Favre's fourth-quarter magic still amazes teammates 
at Clemson. Like any football As•ociatcd Pre"' 
!'an. he knew something of GHEEN BAY. Wis. Favre's skills, but alter watching /\ntuan Edwards had never him lead Green Bay on two s1•nn Brett Favre's magic up l'ourth-quartnr touchdown drives dos11 bdon•. in a 28-24 win over tho Oakland 
Th1\ rookiP cornerback didn't Haidors on Sunday. he had a watch many Green Bay Packers whole new appreciation. gamus during his college years "He's something amazing." 
UN!VERSlTY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM
,.~ 
A THENS, GREECE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Julliel Mayir1ja, Assistant Director International Study rrograms And Returning Students 
Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
4:45 PM 201 DeBartolo 

Edwards said. "He was just in contrnl out there. I've hardly ever seim something like that on a football field. It was great to watch." 
Favre saved Green Bay late, but the Packers say they need to save themselves next week. They must rebound from 50 minutes of uneven football against the Raiders. who looked like the bet­ter team until Favre took over. 
The Packers face the Detroit Lions, one of four NPC Central teams to win its opening game, at. home on Sunday. 
ChieOy, the Packers must cut down on mistakes and turnovers that allowed the Raiders to take a 24-14 lead in the fourth quar­ter despite managing only two offensive drives of any length. Oakland went just 32 and 21 yards after Green Bay turnovers to score 10 points. 
"We had four turnovers, and very seldom do you win a game with that many turnovers," coach Ray Rhodes said. 
After the team threw just five interceptions artd didn't fumble in its four exhibition games, 
Sean 
Happy 21st Birthday 

May you build a ladder to the stars and climb on every rung. And may you stay Forever young. 
The McNamee 
Favre had three passes picked off against Oakland. But only one was his fault, as the other two ricocheted off receivers Mark Chmura and Corey Bradford. 
Uorsey Levens rushed for 78 yards behind an inconsistent offensive line, but he also dropped two passes and fum­bled. Green Bay's lack of a solid running game last season, which many blamed on Levens' absence from nine games because of injury, had more to do with the line's play against the Raiders. 
"We know we've got some work to do, but we're learning every day," said guard Mike Wahle, who made his first career start. "That's a tough front line they have, but we hung in there." 
On defense, the Packers said Oakland's 153 rushing yards were misleading. Defensive tack­le Santana Dotson noted 48 came on one run by Napoleon Kaufman, and Green Bay's defense limited Tyrone Wheatley to 52 yards on 15 carries. 
"If we don't allow big plays, the stat sheet looks different," Dotson said. "If you no lice, in the last two minutes, if they could have run the ball they could have run the clock out, but they couldn't run it against us." 


Where it matters most. 
As one of the world's leading diversified technology companies, we're breaking new ground in everything from defense and commercial electronics, to aviation, to engineering and construction. As a Raytheon employee, you'll contribute to the development of exciting, revolutionary technology designed ta make life better, easier, and safer throughout the world. Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our award-winning N1ghtSight™ technology. 
But it all starts with you Your creativity. Your knowledge, And enthusiasm about the future. In return, we offer exceptional training and professional development opportunities. A supportive, down-to-earth work environment. And incredible benefits including flexible schedules designed to respect your quality of life. 
So you can still show off all those great qualities ofyours outside of work, too. 
We have a lot to tell you about Raytheon and the exciting opportunities we have available. Plan on visiting our booth at your college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair, please e-mail your resume to: resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no attachments), or mail to· Raytheon Company, Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 

• 
Opportunities are available for exceptional students with the following majors: 
• Aeronautical Engineering  • Computer Science  • Management  
• Chemical Engineering  • Electrical Engineering  • Marketing/Communications  
• Civil Engineering and  • Finance/Accounting  • Math  
Construction Management  • Human Resources  • Mechanical Engineering  
• Computer Engineering  • Industrial and Labor Relations  • Physics  

Check out our Website at www.rayjobs.com/campus for further information including a calendar of recruiting events. At Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for a diverse workforce by attracting, retaining, and recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people. 



Bringing technology to the edge 
Raytheon 
r 

AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Lowe, O'Leary lead Boston past Cleveland, 12-3 
walks against Arrojo, lined a Orioles 13, A's 6 Davis appeared to hit into an City Royals 8-6 in the first Associated Press pitch 446 feet to right-center Cal Ripken hit a three-run inning-ending double play. game of a doubleheader 
homer and Mike Mussina won his first start in three weeks as the resurgent Baltimore Orioles snapped the Oakland Athletics' five-game winning streak with a 13-6 victory Tuesday night. 
The loss, combined with Boston's 12-3 win at Cleveland, left Oakland three games behind the Hed Sox in the AL wild-card race. Both teams have 17 games left. 
Charles Johnson went 4-for­4 to help Baltimore extend its winning streak to a season­high eight games. The Orioles had 16 hits, half for extra bases. 
Ripken's second homer in two nights and 18th of the season highlighted a seven­run fifth inning that staked the Orioles to an 11-3 lead. Ripken, who also singled, has 11 hits in his last six games and needs 16 over the next 17 games to get his 3,000th career hit this season. 
Yankees 10, Blue Jays 6 
That big lead was about to he cut to 2 1/2 games. Then came the power barrage. 
Bernie Williams hit a game­tying grand slam in the eighth inning and Paul O'Neill hit another slam in the ninth as the New York Yankees ended a four-game losing streak by beating the Toronto Blue Jays 10-6 Tuesday night. 
With second-place Boston about to beat Cleveland, the Yankees trailed 6-1 in the eighth inning and were on the verge of matching their longest losing streak of the season. 
Roy Halladay took a three­
hitter into the eighth and Chili Ricky Ledee, who was on first, dropped to the turf to avoid a tag by second baseman Homer Bush, who then threw to first. By the time Carlos Delgado's throw reached second, Ledee had slid in safely. 
Angels 8, Royals 6 

Tim Salmon's three-run homer in the ninth inning completed Anaheim's come­back from a five-run deficit as the Angels beat the Kansas Tuesday night. 
Alvin Morman (2-4) gave up back-to-back singles to Darin Erstad and Jim Edmonds to open the ninth and was replaced by Jeff '\1ontgomery. Salmon then hit his 14th homer, giving the Angels their seventh win in eight games. 
It was Montgomery's seventh blown save in 18 opportuni­ties, the Royals have blown 29 saves this year in 57 chances. 
The AL record is ;-{ 1. 
CLEVELAND 
Derek Lowe (6-3) pitched 3 1-3 innings of hitless relief to give Boston its 11th win in 14 games, 12-3 over Cleveland. The Red Sox began the day 3 1/2 games behind the New York Yankees in the AL East and two games ahead of Oakland for the wild card. 
The Indians have one hit in 30 at-bats (.033) against Lowe this season. 
Troy O'Leary is 18-for-45 (.400) with three homers and 13 RBIs against Cleveland, helping Boston to a 7-4 record

-against their possible playoff opponent. The two teams have faced each other twice in the last four postseasons. Trot Nixon's two-run homer, his third in four games, helped Boston take a 3-0 lead in the third off Gooden (3-4), who allowed six runs and six hits in 4 2-3 innings. Wilton Veras singled for Boston's first hit. Nixon then lined a 2-2 pitch into the right-field seats for his 13th homer. Darren Lewis added a sacri­fice fly in the third and Veras' RBI double made it 4-0 in the fourth. 
Mariners 5, Devil Rays 1 
Ken Griffey Jr. hit his AL­

.... leading 45th home run Tuesday night to help the Seattle Mariners snap a four­game losing streak with a 5-1 victory over the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. 
The homer was the 395th of Griff'ey's career, as well as his third this season in 10 at bats against Rolando Arrojo (5-11 ). 
Seattle's Jamie Moyer (14-6) allowed seven hits, none after the fifth inning, to improve to 6-0 when pitching on six days rest. 
The complete game was the third this season and second in the past three starts for the left-hander, who also went the distance on Sept. 3 to beat Boston on six days rest. He walked one and struck out seven. 
Brian Hunter singled and stole second before Griffey, who was 1-for-1 with two for a 2-0 lead in the third. 
Rangers 5, Twins 4 
Rafael Palmeiro's two-out RBI double in the ninth led the Texas Rangers to a 5-4 victory Tuesday night over Minnesota, extending their winning streak against the Twins to 12. 
Minnesota has lost the first 11 games to Texas this season and hasn't beaten the Rangers since Sept. 6, 1998. 
Royce Clayton led off the ninth with a walk off Hector Carrasco and advanced to sec­ond on a sacrifice bunt. One out later, left-hander Eddie Guardado (2-5) intentionally walked Ivan Rodriguez. 
Palmeiro, who is bitting .337 with 43 homers and 136 RBIs, doubled off the wall in right center, to give Texas the lead. 
Danny Kolb (2-1) pitched one and a third inning, for the win. 
Wetteland pitched the ninth for his major league-leading 42nd save in 49 chances. 
Tigers 7, White Sox 0 
C.J. Nitkowski allowed just two hits in seven innings for his first win as a starter since 1996, and Karim Garcia homered twice Tuesday night as the Detroit Tigers beat the Chicago White Sox 7-0. 
Garcia hit his 11th and 12th homers and also had a single and double. Dean Palmer added his 33rd homer. 
Nitkowski (3-5), winning for the first time in four starts since coming out of the bullpen, earned his first victo­ry as a starter since July 30, 1996, when he beat the California Angels at Tiger Stadium. 
Before joining Detroit's rota­tion Aug. 29, the left-hander made 104 straight relief appearances for the Houston Astros and Tigers. 
He walked two, struck out four and matched the longest outing of his career with seven innings. 
Matt Anderson and Nelson Cruz pitched the last two innings and allowed one hit each to complete the four-hiL shutout. 

,,. 
Tru111an Scholarship Informational Meeting 
Wednesday, September 15 
3:00 p.m. 114 O'Shaughnessy 
l~ind out about 

ILADES 
At the Santiago, Chile Information Session 
ILAUES is a six credit course that examines the issues of poverty, development, social justice, liberation theology, and the global economy 
for 

Students applying to Santiago, Chile Program 
Come join us! 

Wednesday. September 15th, 1999 Hospitality Room next to Recker· s al South Dinning Hall 4:45 p.m. 

CENTEII FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


,St.Jent Union Boardpreaenfa •. • 

Wednesday, September I 5, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

-
Discernment Sessions 

What's next? Post-graduate service? Graduate school? Ajob in business? Work with a not-for­profit agency? The Center for Social Concerns offers the following session to help you discern what path to take. Each session offers you criteria or questions for decision-making and invites you to look creatively at what your next step may be. 
Living A Faith To Die For 
Mike Baxter, CSC Thursday, September 16-Siegfried Hall Chapel 5:00-7:30 pm 
What's Next: Criteria for Decision-Making 
Fr. Michael Himes (via video) Thursday, September 23-Siegfried Hall Chapel 5:00-7:30 pm 

Annie Cahill, ND '93, with friends as a Holy Cross Associate in Chile. 
Senior Rap Up Groups 
Small groups of seniors will meet 2-3 times per semester for dinner and conversation at a faculty or staff member's home. In a supportive and open atmosphere, you can discuss and reflect on questions you have about integrating social concerns into life beyond ND. 
Sign up by Thurs., Sept. 23 at the Center for Social Concerns. 
.. 
Information Sessions at the Center for Social Concerns  
Notre Dame Program in Puerto Rico­September 20 at 4:30 and 7:00 pm  
Inner-City Teaching Corps-September 21 at 4:30 and 7:00 pm  
Holy Cross Associates-September 28 at 4:00 and 6:30 pm September 29 at 4:00 and 6:30 pm  
Teach for America-October 6 at 7:00 pm  
Farm of the Child-October 7 at 7:30 pm  
Talking with Parents about Post-Graduation Service­November 17 from 5:00-6:00 pm  
Sean O'Brien ND '95 at Finca del Nino  Please contact Andrea Smith Shappell, Director of Senior Transition Programs at 631-5779 or Shappe1l.1@nd.edu for more information. Registration for the Discernment Sessions is requested.  

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
,.­
NFL 
Sanders mulling return to football 
Associated Press 
Barry Sanders is interested in returning to the NFL but not with the Detroit Lions, ESPN reported Tm~sday on its Web site. 
The star running back, who retired in July, has offered to repay $5.4 million of his sign­ing bonus if the Lions release or trade him this season, ESPN said. David Ware, Sanders' agent, said he madH the offer to Detroit on Monday but that the team

-rejected it. "I think he's ready to con­sider it, in the right situa­tion," Ware said. "But the right situation is not the Detroit Lions. His earner is finished there." "We're trying to get him back on the football field, where he belongs." The '.31-year-old Sanders "definitely would return," if the Lions would accommo­date him, a source close to the running back told ESPN. The Lions would not con­firm whether Ware had con­tacted them on this matter. "Our positions remains the same -that we honored his retirement wishes and we expected the repayment of the prorated portion," Lions spokesman Bill Keenist said Tuesday. 
Detroit filed a grievance last week to recover $5.4 million of the $11 million signing bonus Sanders got when he signed a five-year contract in 1997. Sanders, who needs only 1,458 yards to break Walter Payton's career rush­ing record, disagrees with Detroit's claim that he is required to repay a portion of the bonus if he doesn't play. 
Sanders did not collect a $1.7 million deferred pay­ment due this fall on the orig­inal bonus. 
"We think this thing could go either way with an arbitra­tor," Ware said. "The fact that the Lions have pursued this course has burned any bridge, any possibility, that he would return to the club. But Barry will write the check right now if they'll let him go or trade him." 
Ware told ESPN he has con­tacted three Lions officials, including club owner William Clay Ford, asking to be released or traded if he repays the portion of the bonus. 
"They've told us that if Barry ever plays again, he'll play for the Lions or nobody," Ware said. "That's not going to happen, so we're offering a pretty good deal: more than $5 million, plus they can get compensation for him." 

......................................................................... 
= = 
= = 
Students ofall faith 
.. 
traditions are invited to join us for a spirit-filled, student-led power half I 
=
I hour ofprayer and music. I 
= ..
! ...featuring the Celebration Choir ! I= i= 
= =
I Ewery Wednesday I 
= 0 ­
= I I PIii i = 
I Walsh Chapel I 
= = 
I •
I = = 
For more info, = 
= = 
II call Frank or Karen@ 1-5242 I,. 
= = 
=I -=I 
= =

.,,. I (2MPU5 I
I tv11NISTRY 2 o''o \) I 
.......................................................................1 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Foster arrested in Baton Rouge 
Associated Press 

BATON ROUGE, La. 
Larry Foster, a captain on LSU's football team, was arrested 
Tuesday on a purse­snatching charge a f t e r being chased down and 


identified Foster by several students. 
The starting wide receiver was booked into 1.he East Baton Rouge Parish Jail, LSU Police Capt. Hicky Adams said. Bail was set at $10,000. 
A student said her purse was stolen Monday as she sat on a campus bench. Severn! other students said they saw the theft and chased Foster into a bath­room in the music building about a half-mile from thP. bench, 
Foster was confrontP.d as he left the bathroom and ho iden­tified himself before walking away, Adams said. The purse, missing about $20, was found in the bathroom, he said. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE Ui\ME 
INTERNATIONAi. sn;ny 1'RQ(;1u~1 IN 
CAIRO, EGYPT 
INFORM•1TIO,\' MELTING 
With .lullirt ~layinp, i\ssi.stant Dirl'rtm lnlcrnatior1~11 St11dy Programs Professor ~-Jol1amcd l;ad-El-llak And Returning Students 
Thursday September 16, 1999 4:45 pi\1 205 DcBartolo 

If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 
Notl1mg llc,1ts our big, iuicy Douhlc C:hccschurgcr. It's got the great t;tslc of flame broiling anJ ha::: 75% 1111 ll'l' beef than Mc I)<in:dd's" (~hcesehurg\,r 
,Price and part1c1pal1011 ,,.,,,v vary) 
l tie HOOc1le LaForfune ~1ur.1e·1t Cl'f~~e, 
It just tastes better. 
Wednesday, September l 5, I 999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
SENIORS! 
ABSOLUTELY LAST CHANCE TO 
SIGN UP 
FOR YEARBOOK PORTRAITS WED., THURS., & FRI. SEPTEMBER 15,16, & 17 9:00 AM TO 5:00 PM 
ROOM 108 ' LAFORTUNE LOBBY 
-
.. 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Vazquez, Expos beat Brown, Dodgers in pitchers' duel 
game road trip. Rockies, who won for the third career homer, his first since a 20-year-old rookie who is the Associated Press The Giants were without slug­Lime in their last five game. Sept. 8, 1996. He is 11-for-63 organization's top pitching 
ger Barry Bonds, who sat out Jamey Wright (3-2) gave up ' (.175) this season with 14 RBIs. prospect, got a no-decision andLOS ANGELES with an inflammation in his left one run and five hits in seven is 0-1 in five starts. Ankiel, whoJavier Vazquez pitched a one­knee. Ile was listed as day to innings to win his second con­singled in the second for his
hitter for his first career Brewers 4, Cardinals 1 
day. secutive start. first career hit, worked five
shutout to outduel Kevin Brown Scott Karl pitched seven
Ryan Dempster (6-8) went Octavio Dotel (7-2), who innings and allowed one run 
as the Montreal Expos beat the strong innings and Marquis
seven innings and allowed three hadn't lost in 12 starts since his and four hits with five strike­
Los Angeles Dodgers 3-0 Grissom and Jeff Cirillo had key 
runs on seven hits. He struck major league debut June 26 outs.
Tuesday night. hits in a three-run seventh as 
out nine and walked five. against Atlanta, gave up six
Vazquez (8-7) retired the final the Milwaukee Brewers beat
San Francisco won fur the runs and seven hits in three
17 batters to complete the 22nd the St. Louis Cardinals 4-1 Cubs 4, Reds 3
12th time in 16 games, but innings.

one-hitler in Expos history and Tuesday night. Sammy Sosa again came up
remained 8 1/2 games behind The Rockies took a 2-0 lead in
the first since July 13, 1997, Grissom's two-out, broken-bat empty in his quest for homer
first-place Arizona in the NL the first inning. Perez led off
when Pedro Martinez beat the single off Manny Aybar (4-5) No. 60, but II@ry Rodriguez hit
West with 18 games left. The with a triple and, one out later,
Reds 2-0. snapped a 1-1 tie. Cirillo, bat­his first in nearly a month as
Diamondbacks beat Pittsburgh Terry Shumpert walked. Dante
Vazquez. who had a care<:>r­ting .417 against the Cardinals the Chicago Cubs beat the
2-1 earlier Tuesday. Hichette then hit a two-run dou­
high 10 strikeouts, allowed only this season and .388 for his Cincinnati Heds. 
ble of the center-field wall. 
a leadoff single to former Expo career, added a two-run double. Sosa failed to get the ball out
Ben Petrick hit an B.BI double
Mark Grudzielanek in the Diamondbacks 2, Pirates 1 Cirillo was 2-for-4 and has five of the infield against Pete
in the second and Castilla and
fourth inning to a Dodgers line­Hanley Frias singled and hits in the last two games. Harnisch (14-9), then completed
Clemente hit back-to-back 
-up that totaled 31 runs in their scored the winning run on The Brewers have won three an O-for-4 night with a ground­
homers in the third.

previous three games against Pittsburgh first in a row and are 40-37 on the out in the ninth against Dennys Montreal. baseman Kevin Young's field­road, but are just 24-43 at Reyes, who gave up Mark 
Grudzielanek advanced to ing error, and the Arizona Astros 12, Phillies 2 home. The Cardinals, without McGwire's 60th homer last third with one out on a stolen Diamondbacks beat the Pirates. With their 12th consecutive -injured Mark McGwire, have year. base and a passed ball by Chris Erubiel Durazo had a solo win, the Houston Astros set a lost six of seven and are a sea­Rodriguez's solo homer to Widger. Vazquez issued his only homer and a single in three at­team record and widened their son-worst nine games below center field, his first since Aug. walk of the game to Gary bats for the Diamondbacks, who NL Central lead. .500. 18, broke a seventh-inning tie Sheffield, but Eric Karros won for the ninth time in 10 Shane Reynolds homered and McGwire missed a chance to and ended the Reds' seven­popped out to second and Raul games -the last five in a row allowed six hits in seven gain on Sammy Sosa in the game winning streak. Jose Mondesi grounded out to third -and reduced their magic innings, and Ricky Gutierrez home-run race because of a Nieves added a two-run triple in lo end the threat. number to 10. went 4-for-4 as the Astros rout­sore left groin. McGwire, who the ninth. 
Any combination of 10 ed the Philadelphia Phillies. has 55 homers, left Monday The Herls had won 10 of their Diamondbacks victories or San Houston increased its division night's game after 4 1/2 innings 11 previous games and began
Braves 11, Padres 4 

Francisco losses, and Arizona lead to four games over second­and may not be back in the line­the night three games behindKevin Millwood struck out 12 will clinch the NL West. title and place Cincinnati, which lost to up until Friday. Houston in tlrn NL Central and 2in seven innings and hit his first become the first second-year Chicago 4-3, and sent Cardinals starter Hick Ankiel, l/2 games back of New York. 
career homer as the Atlanta 

franchise to reach the playoffs. Philadelphia to its 11th straight
Braves beat the San Uiego 

Mark Wilkins (2-3) gave up loss. The Astros have outscored
Padres to snap a three-game 

Frias' hit and one unf:'arned in the Phillies 25-4 in the first twolosing streak. 
the ninth. games of the series and outhitThe Braves pushed their lead 
Brian Anderson, in his first them 26-14.
in the NL East back to two 

start in four weeks because of Reynolds ( 16-11 l allowed both games after the New York Mets 
manager Buck' Showalter's runs, struck out three and
lost 7-2 at Colorado. 

decision to rest Armando walked one. He is 2-0 with a
Millwood (17-7) matched his Reynoso, allowed one hit and 1.25 ERA in three Septembervictory total from last year, his two walks, and struck out two starts.

first full major league season. 

in his seven-inning stint that Paul Byrd (14-9} was tagged
He improved to 5-0 in his last ran his scoreless-inning string for seven runs and eight hits in seven starts after holding the 

Padres to one run on five hits. 

In his last start before being streak is the Phillies' longestHe walked two. 
sent to the bullpen to make since an 11-gamer from .June
After being held to four hits in room for Todd Stottlemyrc's 24-July 7, 1997. 
Monday night's 3-0 loss to San 

return l'rom the disabled list, Houston, which outhit
Diego, the Braves had 14 hits in 

Anderson threw a three-hit Philadelphia 16-8, took a 3-0
piling it on against the team 

shutout against the Chicago lead in the second. Gutierrez,that beat them for the NL pen­Cubs. who has 12 hits in his last 20nant last year. 
But Anderson came out after at-bats, hit an RBI double to left
With two outs in the fourth 

throwing 77 pitches through on a ball Ron Gant misjudged.
and a runner on first, Millwood seven innings. Reynolds then hit his third hit the first pitch he saw from 


rookie Buddy Carlyle (1-2) into 
the first row of seats in left field Rockies 7, Mets 2 
for a 4-1 lead. Vinny Castilla hit his 200th career home run and Neifi Perez tripled twice and drove in 
Giants 3, Marlins 0 
a run as the Colorado Rockies
Shawn Estes pitched a four­
beat the New York Mets 7-2. 
hitter for his fourth career 
The Mets, who began the day
shutout and Brent Mayne 
one game behind Atlanta in thehomered as the San Francisco NL East, hat! won nine of theirGiants beat the Florida Marlins. 
last 11. New York remained 2Estes (11-8) struck out eight 1/2 games ahead of Cincinnati
and walked two in going the 
in the wild-card race.
distance for the first time since Castilla's two-run homer wasblanking Florida 8-0 on May 4, 
his 30th of the year, the fifth
1998. He is now 4-0 with a 2.00 
straight year he has hit at leastERA six lifetime starts against 30 homers. Edgard Clemente
the Marlins, who have dropped 
added a home run for the
the first five games in their 10­
Thinking of Joining the Church?? 
Try RCIA 
at 
Sacred Heart Parish 
at 
Notre Dame 
We are: 
1) an inter-generational group 
[you always liked talking with Grandma) 
2) a Wednesday evening meeting 
(you prefer Chicago on weekends] 
3) lhe Parish which baptized Olief Pokagon 
(you like a truly long tradition!] 
4) a complement Lo Campus Ministry's RCIA 
(you like building bridges) 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 

Lecture 
"Human Right & Religion in China & Hong Kong" 
By Maryknoll Missionary Fr. Michael Slaboda 
Thursday, September 16 
3:00 pm Holy Cross College Auditorium 
Sponsored by Holy Cross College Campus Ministry 
Wednesday, Septemher 15, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
.,, 
Who's #8 on this year's list of Fortune's "1 00 Best Companies 
to work for in t America" 
Deloitte & 
¦

the answer , s Touche 
.llilllD:,.;•-·•-_ .., .._,~:.:"···. . ··. ···, ·..·. _ ·-.......,.,:_:,~~::·•:·.·..7\>•:':':(·"i:-:-=,:w:~~:':···::::.?r~:m~1t~;"'".:'.-···· _ ·. ~ 
Deloitte & Touche will host a student presentation on September 20 at 
7:30 PM in the Alumni Senior Club. We look forward to meeting you. 
© 1999 De~itte & Touche LLP and Deloitte Consulting LLC. O~oitte & Touche refers to Deloitte & Touche LLP, Delohte Consulting LLC and related entities. 
We will also host campus interviews on 9ct<>bf!r 6.a.~cJ 7, 1999. Resumes are due to Career and Placement by'Sept~mber 21. 


... 
NFL 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
Mirer gets one more chance with New York Jets 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 
Jets coaches have no choice but lO go with Rick Mirer. Jets players have no choice but to have faith in Mirer as the replace­ment for injured quarter­b a c k Vinny Testa­verde. 
A n d M i r e r need look back no further than last season to see 

-
a similar situation involving nonP other than Testaverde. 
Before the 1998 season, the Jets signed Testaverde so they'd have a veteran backup for Glenn Foley. When Foley faltered, Tcstaverde was ele­vated to starter and responded with the best performance of his dozen NFL seasons. 
Now Tcstavcrdc, an under­achiever for much of his first 11 years as a pro, is sidelined with a ruptured Achilles' ten­don. Mirer. acquired three weeks ago. has been thrust into the spotlight far sooner than he expected. 
How will Mirer. who has been with four teams in the last four seasons -he did next-to-nothing for the Seahawks, Bears and Packers -handle it" 
"It's a pretty big challenge," Mirer said of replacing the AFC's leading passer of last season and one of the Jets' prime leaders. "There are high expectations for Lhis 

team. 1 need to do my best to do what Vinnv would have done and pick" up where he left off. 
"I could be in a little more of comfort zone. r understand it is a tough situation for me. but good things could happen. rt's just a matter of getting off to a good start." 
That's not something the Jets have done. They will be without Testaverde and run­ning back-kick returner Leon Johnson (torn knee ligaments) for the rest of the season. Star receiver Wavne Chrebet won't be back until mid-October and starting cornerback Otis Smith is out for another fow weeks. Nose tackle Jason Ferguson's ankle almost certainly will sideline him for Sunday night's game at Buffalo, and tight end Eric Green has a pinched nerve in the back. 
Somehow, they claim they will put all that aside and prosper with Mirer at the helm. 
"We're going to keep rolling and Rick is going to get it done," Keyshawn Johnson said. 
"Rick has obviously had some bad times in the past as a quarterback, but he is start­ing new. He has the weapons and the players who want to play for him. As long as he realizes that, he'll be fine." 
Mirer struggled in Sunday's opening loss to New England, going 4-for-11 for 28 yards and being intercepted twice in the fourth quarter. which was all he played because he was listed as the third quarter­back. 
Those numbers were in 
NBA 
Ne-w Jersey loses 
centers until 2000 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.. 
The New Jersey Nets will be without two of their centers until at least January. 
Center Jayson Williams under­went arthroscopic knee surgery at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York City on Tuesday morning to remove loose particles and a tiny kernel of bone from his right knee. 
Nets general manager John Nash said Dr. Russell Warren, Williams' surgeon, advised that Williams shouldn't place any weight on his knee for another month, and gave a tentative date for Williams' return of Jan. 
1. Williams will miss training camp and the first two months of the season, which begins Nov. 2. 
The Nets will also be without backup center Evan Eschmeyer until January. Eschmeyer, the 34th player pick in the draft, ruptured a shoulder muscle while working out in Illinois last month. Team officials said he would be out for four months. 
The team re-signed 37-year­old center Michael Cage to a one-year deal late Monday to fill in, coach Don Casey said. 
Campus View Apartments 
• 
Renuuleled Luxury Suites 

•Furnisb(~d, 
Convenient & Affordubhi: 

• 
Sttulent Lettse Tern1s 

• 
Walk to ND & Shops 


Call for Details! 272-1441 www.rent.net/direct/campusview 

keeping with a career in which he went from the No. 2 overall draft pick in 1993 to a bust in Seattle and Chicago and virtually unused in Green Bay. 
"I've been waiting for an opportunity to fix some things," he said, "but this hap­pened before I thought it would. I'd like more time to get comfortable, but that is not true right now. I feel pret· ty good about a lot of things we am doing; it is reacting at game speed. But I can't hesi­tate, and that is what hap­pened Iagainst the Patriots]. 
"Right now, it is time to play. Every head coach and city is different, and this is a coach who does not hit the panic button like others I have been with who were on the hot seat." 
Actually, it is Mirer who is on a very hot scat. 


We also buy and sell used CDs. We pay cash. 
Seo monoger or 
associate in t~e music 
department for details. 
ME01NPLA.v· 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
Now online www.MediaPlav.com'M Ca.ue11,.. available 
I' on seled tides. Sale end• September 25, 1999. PTodud selection and pricing may vary online. 81 ·8656-099 

Wednesday, September 15, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cubs re-sign Hill to one-year extension 
A,sociatc:d l'rc•• 
CINCINNATI 

Ou tf'in Id Pr (; lenallPn II i11 agreed lo a orw-year contract cixllinsion Tuesday with tho Chicago Cubs, hoping ho can bti part ol' a turnaround in 2000. 
llill has been one of the Cubs' most important backups, starting 52 games in lefl field, right licld and as a designated hitWr. llill has hit .:B2 with 14 homers and 42 HBls as a -;tarter, and contributed three pinch homers. 
"l likP whNn I'm at," said llill, who also got a contract option f'or 200 I. "I lovo Chicago as a city. I lovn the stadium. I lovn the direction tlw tnam's trying to establish. I'm convinced they're moving in the right dirnclion." 
Aftur making thn playoffs last s1H1so11. tho Cubs hav1~ fall­en to la.'!l in the NL Ccnl.rnl al 
FRIDAY 5EPfEMBER J41H Af 5f.PAf'5 COUNfY PARK KONCERf 5 FOR KID5 
WELCOMES 



....J 
w 
([ :) <( 
....J 
AUTEN RD 
I 
l­
a: 
0 
z 
.­
("),___ ND 
Cross Country 
National Catholic Championships 


Today JV Race-3:30pm Women's Race-4:15pm Men's Race-5:00pm 
UURKI~ GOU' COURSE 
5(,-87. 
Hill is interested in seeing how many players the Cubs rolain during the offseason. 
"We'vn got some good play­ers on this team," he said. "I think it's going tc, be a really a tough decision on what players thHy bring back. It's going to bl' very difficult." 
Hill thinks the Cubs started to struggle in large part because Lance Johnson went on the disabled list June 20 with a strained abdomen. The Cubs wern in ser.ond place at the lime. 
They went into a tailspin after losing Johnson, their leado!T hittAr and center fleld­er. When he was activatod on /\ug. 21. the Cubs had fallen into last place. 
"What really hurt this team was when we lost Lance .Johnson." llill said. "When we lost Lance, it took the sail out of our ship." 

...
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Baylor baffled by crazy losses 
Associated Press WACO, Texas Joe Jackson is trying to avoid contact with football fans this week . and not because h e ' s afraid of b e i n g taunted a b o u t Baylor's two last­second losses. Instead, Jackson said he and the Boars fear something much worse than ridicule -pity. "You get tired of being con­soled," the sophomore center said. "You hear 'get 'em next time' a lot, but that's not some­thing that you want to hear." People are finding it easier than ever to feel sorry for Baylor after Saturday's bizarre 27-24 loss lo UNLV. With less than 20 seconds to play, Baylor had a throe-point lead and the ball inside the Hebels 10. Instead of having his quar-

terback take a knee and run out the clock, first-year coach Kevin Steele elected to go for one more score by calling a running play. The Bears paid the price when Darrel Bush fumbled into the end zone and UNLV's Kevin Thomas returned it for a game-winning touchdown. 
"It was kind of weird to hear 30,000 jaws drop at the same time," Jackson said. "That was really tough." 
Baylor kicker Kyle Atteberry. who missed an extra point on the last play of overtime in the opening-week loss to Boston College, said it has taken sev­eral days for the reality of the sudden UNLV loss to sink in. 
"Everybody was just shocked," Atteberry said. "You've got to go through some personal time of mourning, but you've only got a short while to think about it because we play again this week." 
The Bears are trying to pick up the pieces in time to salvage what they insist can still be a successful season. Players and coaches all said that process starts with forgetting about the past two weeks, even though questions about the losses are sure to follow them the rest of the year. 
Steele, who took full respon­sibility for the defeat Saturday and called it "a stupid mistake on my part," said Tunsday he no longer will talk with the media about the final play of the UNLV game. 
Tomorrow! 
Women's Volleyball 

vs. 

Miami(OH)
7:00pm 
Free admission to all students 

Discover Financial Services, Inc. a business unit of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., operates all Discover Brands with more than 46 million cardmembers and the Discover"/Novus Network•. The network is the largest independent credit card network in the United States with more than 3 million merchant and cash access locations. We are currently seeking individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL ¦ CICS ¦ VSAM ¦ DB/2 ¦ JCL C ¦ C++ ¦ .JAVA ¦ ORACLE ¦ UNIX ASSEMBLER ¦ WINDOWS 95fl4T ¦ OOP PUf ¦ DATA WAREHOUSING ¦ OSf2 
0,scevER 
b0ll Ul1b 2010 l3_1 
J L Mtll 

We offer a wide array of workp!ace amenities including excellent salaries and benefits, 401 K, profit sharing, tuition reimbursement, fitness center and a casual dress environment. If unab,e to attend, please send your scanable resume to: 
Discover Financial Services, Inc. Human Riesources, IT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road ¦ Riverwoods, IL 60015 Fax: (847J 405-1388 
Visit our Web Site at: 
www.novusnet.com 
EOE MIFIDN 
I•!.!ii 

"We have rectified it as a team," Steele said. "We've challenged each other, it's been a great bonding experi­ence and it's over with." 
Although Steele has received criticism from the public about his decision to run the ball on the last play, he has received nothing but support from the Baylor players and assistants. 
Even defensive coordinator Brick Haley, whose unit wasn't on the field when the game­winning touchdown occurred, said he agreed with Steele's call. 
"If you question what hap­pened on that last play, that's like taking the sword out of these guys' hands," Haley said. "We say we want to build an attitude, and you can't do that by taking a knee." 
Atteberry said the players all wanted the team to go for the extra touchdown, and said he knew Steele would give them that chance. 
"It didn't surprise me," Atteberry said. "We talked all week about finishing the job. The crowd would have been ch11ering if we had scored. It was just a one-in-a-million 
•

thing." 
Despite the crushing finishes of their first two games, the Bears have already shown dra­matic improvement from thnir 2-9 season in 1998. Last year. Baylor ranked 98th or lower nationally in live major catn­gorins, including total offense ... and total defense. 
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
.. 
... 
-'> 
:~ 
Soccer 
continued from page I 
after coming off the bench midway through the half. A pivotal player in the win, he knorked a shot past Cleveland State goalkeeper Geoff Mauch with 7 43 remaining in the half to put the Irish on top 1-0. 
The goal came after a minute-long struggle against a sr.rappy Viking defense in the box. Freshman forward Alan Lyskawa tried to take advan­tage of a cross from the right sideline -his shot sailed past Mauch, but was deflected off of the right post narrowly missing a score. 
Cox, vying for position in front of the goal. capitalized on the rebound and kicked the ball in to the back left corner of the net for the game-win­ning goal. 
"We've got a lot of team unity -we support each other well. where that hasn't been so much the case during the past couple of seasons.," Cox said. "When evervone's unified and on the same page that makes the job a little easier to get done successfully." 
Despite dominating on attack and putting much pres­sure on the goal in both halves, thP Irish had trouble

• 
finishing their plays. 
With 22 shots on goal and 11 corner kick attempts, :'-lotre Dame only came away with one score on the night. 
"We're still working on our attack," said Cox. "But I think it's coming along quite nicely." 
Even with a one-man advan­tage after officials ejected Cleveland State's Kareem Reynolds with a red card at the 83:25 minute mark, the Irish offense couldn't put the ball in the net. 
Failing to finish on scoring opportunities has plagued the offensive line all season ­despite numerous attempts, the squad scored only four times in live games. 
In the backfield, the Irish put on a strong performance in order to cling to the 1-0 
Want to write Sports? Call 
1-4543. 
Paid postions as copy editors are also open. 
lead. The starting defensive line of senior Matt MrNcw, junior Connor LaRose and freshman Andreas Forstner came up big, limiting Cleveland Sate to only two shots on goal and four corner kicks. 
McNew and LaRose both sti­11ed key attemµts by the Viking offense at one-on-one situa­tions with Irish goalkeeper Gerick Short in the first I 0 minutes of the second half. 
Vikings' freshman Adam Camponelle on attack led the Vikings' offensive attempts. 
"Cleveland State's a good team," Cox said. "The number 10 shirt [Camponelle] was a real strong player. They'll be an even tougher team in a couple of years because most of the team is pretty young." 
The win against Cleveland State marks the last game on home turf for the Irish before a four-game road trip. Notre Dame faces formidable oppo­nents this weekend in Big East rivals Seton Hall and Connecticut. 



Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
SOFTBALL 
Irish hire Wolverine as assistant 
A.uodilt«I Press 
Two-timl' f"irst loam l\ll­i\11wrican and l'ornwr Michigan standout Traci Conrad has lrnm1 namPd an assistant soft­hall coach 
at NotrP llanH'. 
Conrad r <' p I a r 11 s StnphnniP 11 n 11 cl 11 ­rson who look over thi, lwad 


coach in g Conrad position at 1.oyola­C:hicago. Conrad, a nativn of Frnnkforl. Ill., will lwlp roach tlw !JaltPrs and inlfolders and assist-Notre 
Dame head coach Liz Miller in all administrativn aspects of the program. 
Thn Big Tnn carenr hits leadnr won numorous national awards while playing four years at f'irst base undPr Wolverine head coach Carol I lulchins. t\s a senior in 1<J9Y, slrn was murnid a Ilonda Award Finalist and a third team All­/\nrnrican. whiln rnc,•iving her second nod as Big Ten Player of tlrn Year and Michigan team MVP. 
/\s a junior. Conrad. a four­ti me all district selection, lrnlped the Wolv11rines to a national No. 2 ranking l'or 10 straight wneks, earning first tnam All-America honors. iler sophomore season, Conrad hclpod the Wolvtirines advance to their third straight Women's Collp,ge World Series, earning first team l\11-l\merica honors and her first of three selections to tho BIG Ten first team. 

As a freshman. Conrad was named to tlw Women's College World Series all-tournament team and earned accolad11s as Big Ton Frr.shman or the Year. 
Conrad also earned a gold medal while playing for the 1997 Pan Am Qualifier team in Medellin, Columbia, and was a participant in the 1997 and 1998 USA Softball National Team Festival. 
Off the field, Conrad was a first and second team GTE Academic All-American in 1998 and 1999 respectively and a three-time academic all-district team selection. 
Making a difference has always been a matter of applying yourself. Here's whJ:re to apply.  PART-TIME SALES ASSOCIATE Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore  
.. PEACE CORPS The toughest job you'll ever love. How far arc you willl.ng to go to make a dil'iorence? UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Visit our booth 1t the Post Graduate Volunteer Fair! Wednesday, September 15 6:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. Stepan Center Contact us at www.peacecorps.gov or 1-800-424-8580.  Follett Higher Education Group. the leader in higher education services. is currently seeking a Part-time Sales Associate for our Notre Dame Bookstore. We are looking for an experi­enced customer service orient­ed Sales Associate/Cashier to work days, nights, and week­ends. We offer $6.50 per hour. Only enthusiastic, friendly peo­ple need apply. To find out more about salary and benefits, please apply in person to: The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, University of Notre Dame, Bookstore Building, in Notre Dame. Visit us on the web: www .fhcg. fol lett.com. EOE  
YOU JUST FOUND A DIAMOND IN A MOUNTAIN OF ROCKS. Looking for a fun and rewarding PART-TIME job? Omnipoint has the perfect position for you! A leader in the wire­less industry, we are currently seeking part-time employees to help us expand our fast growing market. PRODUCT SAMPLERS 10-15 Hours per week (Weekend hours required) $10 per hour PLUS commissions! If you enjoy meeting people -want to gain selling experience -want to learn more about the explosive telecommunications business AND want a FREE PCS Digital Phone, then OMNIPOINT wants to speak with you! For immediate consideration, fax, e-mail or call today! Fax: 317-347-7024. E-mail: bhatcher@omnipoint-pcs.com Ph: 317-347-7100. An EOE, we screen candidates for a drug-free work environment. ~OMNIPOINT" WHERE PROMISING FUTURES ARE TAKING SHAPE. www.omnipofnt.com  

..,,, 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Striowski steps up in sophomore year 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assisram Spores Edi tor 
Sophomorn cross country 
runner Marc Striowski went 
the distance Saturday, earn­
ing his first college victory in 
t h e 
Valpa­
raiso 
Invit­
ational 
a n d 
hinting 
at the 
impact 
he will 
have on 
t h e 
Irish this season, 
"For me. personally, it was 
kind of nice because I won. 
but our team also ran very 
well without our top four 
guys," Striowski said. "It 
shows that we're pretty 
deep. and lots of guys are 
running well. It's just a 
starting point for the sea­
son." 
Striowski is a native of Toronto, Ontario in Canada, wherr, he competed for one of the top high school cross country and track teams in the province. 
"I started running in high school because my high school team was pretty good," Striowski said. "I joined the team and did well so I kept doing it. After a while, I knew I wanted to run in college. so that was a motivator." 
Striowski said that a num­ber of runners come to the 
U.S. from Canada to run in college, including several from his team. 
"He's a real solid distance man. He can run well at 5,000 meters and 10,000 meters," Notre Dame cross country coach Joe Piane said. 
"I think he is going to make vast improvements and he already has between his freshman and sophomore years," added Piane. "He's going to get nothing but bet-

tnr." 
Last yflar, Striowski was 
usually Notre Danrn's sixth 
finisher, but with othnrs' 
graduations and his sumnwr 
training program. Im moved 
up in the Irish lineup. This 
summer, he practicnd at 
high altitude in Boulder, 
Colo., working out with fel­
low cross country runnnrs 
S,rnn McManus: Bridgnt 
O'Brien and Nicole LaSellll. 
"It was a lot more focused 
training. which helps you not 
lose track," said Striowski. 
"We had kind of a disap­
pointing year last year, so 
everyone's kind of motivatnd 
to get back to nationals." 
Training at high altitude 
helps athletes get into top 
shape. Because the air is 
thinner, they havn to work 
harder to get the oxygen 
they need. Then when the 
athletes return to a lower 
altitude. they arc able to 
compete more easily. 
Striowski did long distance 
training all summer to pre­
pare for the season. 
This year, he has his mind set on team goals of winning the Big East championships. qualifying for the national championships with an auto­matic qualifier position (the top two finishers at districts 

..
receive these) and to 1>lacn among the top ten teams at the NCAA championships in November. 
One or the best aspects for Striowski of cross country is the team unity. 
"It's a team sport," he said. "I love the team unity. team camaraderie and the competitiveness and rivalry with other schools." 
In last week's meet. Striowski captured the title in 24:48 in the 8,000 meter race N 28 seconds better than his personal record last year. 
Paine sees even more improvement in Striowski's future. 
"I think he can run under 
30:00 in the 10.000 meter run this year," said Piane. 

LAST CHANCE! 
CLUB INFO MEETING 
Club officers, you hadTHREE otheropportunities to attend, and tonight will be your last chance to attend one ofthe 
MANDATORY Club Info Meetings. 
See you tonight! 
5:00 PM MONTGOMERY THEATER 

FOR 1.lJORE INFO CALL 631-7309, OR VISIT Wlt1w.1ul.et/11/~suolcl11bsl 

page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
... 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Brown leads Irish into start of three-game stretch 
"Kara Brown is a great defen­By MIKE CONNOLLY sive player,'' she said. "She plays 
Associate Spores Editor 
great whether I am there or not so I don't think my absense The Notre Dame women's soc­
effected her one bit." cer team hosts the Butler While Lindsey has not seen 
Bulldogs tonight at Alumni Field Brown change her µlay since without junior captain Kelly injury, she has noticed Brown Lindsey. become a better leader. Brown 
She has yet lo recover from a entered the 1999 season as the knee injury she suffered ugainst only senior on the Irish back­North Carolina two weeks ago. field. 
Even without their toµ <lel'end­In addition lo Lindsey and e r. the Irish rtefense has Bruwn, tho Irish defense foa­remained strong giving up just iures two starting freshmen 
one goal to Duke and shutting Venessa l'rusinsky and Nancy out St. John's. A big reason for Mikacenic. the continund strong play of the "She took on more of a leader­
Irish defense has been senior ship role in the back being the Kara Brown. senior but she always plays a Brown is a four-year starter great game," she said.

.... 
for Notre Dame and was named With Lindsey still sidelined, Big East defensive player of the the Irish face three games i.n five 
week for her play against St. days.John's. 
After Butler, Notre Dame trav­Brown's award-winning play 
els to Houston, Texas, to take on in Lindsey's absence does not 
Texas A&M and Southern surprise Lindsey. Methodist University. Tho three games will test the fitness of the Irish. 

"Coach [Randy Waldruml has really stressed that we have three games this week," Lindsey said. "Three games in five days is going to be really difficult physically. I think we really want to go out against Butler and try to establish a good rhythm in the game early so we can rest a few players for this weekend." 
In addition to the physical tests. the Irish will also be tr,sted mentally this week. With three games this week, Notre Dame has less time to prepare for each opponent. 
"[The schedule] makes a dif­fcnmcc because usually we have a whole week to focus on two learns," Lindsey said. "With the game this past weekend, we only had Monday to focus on three teams. I think basically coach is just going to stress tl1at we go out and play our own game and don't worry about our opµonent.·· 
Fis, 
DICE 
_gg 

MOVIES• BOOKS
PL,AY® 
Davie 
continued from page 1 
ing weeks. 
"We may not be a 10-2 or 9­3 football team at the end," Davie said. "But we're going to play in a lot of different situa­tions before the season's over." 
!RISH NOTES: 
• Senior Eric Chappell was dismissed from the team. Davie referred to Chappell's departure as an "internal dis­cipline matter." Freshman Gary Godsey replaces Chappell as the No. 3 quarter­back behind Jarious Jackson and Arnaz Battle. 
• 
Strong safety Hon Israel (right ankle sprain), flanker Joey Get.herall (right shoulder separation}, tight end John Owens (torn calf muscle) and linebacker Ronnie Nicks (left ankle sprain) will all miss Saturday's game against Michigan State. 

• 
Following the Purdue loss, Davie called for a practice on Sunday. Normally the team gets Sunday off, then reports to practice on Monday. The team watched the film of the prrwious day's loss then came back at night for practice. They had the day off Monday, then met Tuesday morning at 


7:30 a.m. before returning for a night practice. 
• •~ of FREE calling time just for applying. 
• Apply on the internet and get an additional 
•,~ of FREE calling time when you make your first purchase. (•~ if you apply by phone.) 
• 
Get a ~% rebate towards calling on all purchases.t 

• 
No annual fee. 

• 
No credit history required. 


Apply on the web and get up to -=~e of FREE calling time: 
www.gtecard.com 
or 
1-888-591-7900 
dited to vour GTI: Calling Card account. twhen you carry 
I our tolf..free number or visit our web site for complete 

Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the location nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. ~ow online www.MediaPlay.comSM 
Product pricing and availability may vary online. 
Wednesday, S~prember 15, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 31 
-
FOURTH AND INCHES 

WE.LL I DATe:':, ,llJ!.T All.EN 601Nc. 'TO ~~ow UP  \-\I, 7'1HSIS Jo'"•·• rRoM ~ol.JR PS'll\.l C.L AS~,ul'..  W\-\EN \$ i\~E. 01\, ,\-IE. t)~IJ(.'E  
foR V':, ON 1 1'-EIR OWN  T  'wt,.':, Wof,.IOER1fJC:. •••  1 f..l<i;'.S  ~LM.l! •••  
Co  "l'.F,., M~'1'13€-You (\I-JD  
°I  l OUL-0.. ,"Tl-lf~E:S ~15,  
t)t,"-(E. t,tJC) :I ii\OVC>\.\r /".A~BE".'•. 'WV \;JO Lll-0 l.ll(E  
"'t'"C>  C.O ,., Wl°fV. 1-\F••.  

Fox TROT (D1LsrnT HAs Movrn rn THE v1EwP01Nr PAGEs.l 
TOM KEELEY 
I .SE~-,;; -S"E~.... ' 
\ Gc1r CUTE ) 
\ FRl!c.NDS.._...' -i I 
=~=::ll,','
,,, 
:, 

BILL AMEND 
MoM / MOM!  JASON Gor  ISN'T THAT GREAT?.'  PAIGE, IT'S  
AN  A-Do\JBLE·PLUS oN HIS  ISN'T THAT E)(C1T1NC:,?_,  So N1CE To  
MATH TEST.'  ISN'T TliAT THE MoST  SEE You  
oNDERFUL NEWS?.,  RooTIN& foR  
I  YOUR BRolrlER  
FoR A CHAN&E.  

WHAT ARE '(oU TALKING HAVE i'OV ASOUT°? nus S1Nk'S TI-IE TWo EVER BEEN TWERP'S AVERAGE L1KE HAPPY AT A BRIC!<. THE SAME 
',((,:'°:) TIME" 
I 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

Wf: /fER.!= AT" PE PR.AVE Du WANT To 
s1NcE1<ELy AP0Lo~1z.e Fofi! -y'g-sfE:Ri::,A1s 
CO/.-f PI.ETe:1.,y uNFOUNDtD ATfAC!<. ON 
CAMPUS SE:C.VRIT'f. We t'\OP6' you \,'JIU., 
fOR.Gl'IJES US.,. 

-
beam.1@nd.edu 

CROSSWORD 
8 Clockmaker 

ACROSS  28 Ha1rpIece  56 Hollow response  
1 Sk11ng mecca 5 Dogs and cats, eg 9 Hidden room's  31 60 · s protest 34 'Time -My Side" (Rolling Stones hit) 35 Demonstrate  57 Pancake syrup flavor 58 Friend, to Frani;:oise 59 Actress Perlman  
secret opening  36X  60 Like some  
14 Comic Sahl 15 "Dies 16 Idolize  39 Music synthesizer 40 Malarial fever  stomachs 61 Look closely 62 Burn quickly  
11 Vulgarian 18 Seagoing Abbr 19 Have a feeling about 20 X 23 Old-time entertainer Tucker 24 Morse code component 25 Quiche, e.g.  41 The Phantom s instrument 42 Switch posItIons 43 Quaker's "you" 44 Prefix with nuptial 45 Paulo, Brazil 46 Italian cheese 49 X 54 Slow mover 55 -Orange,  DOWN 1 Prefix with dexterity 2 Makes off with illegally 3 TV teaser 4 Big and strong 5 Finger that curls 6 Rub ou\ 7 Tight as a drum  

26 !he Emerald Isle N.J 
Thomas 9 Die, euphem1st1cally 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Highly skilled 11 Forbidden thing 12 Once, once 13 Attorney F 
Bailey 
22 Patsy's pal on -"Absolutely Fabulous" 
26 In the style of Suffix 
27 Debaucher 
28 Supporter of !he American Revolution 
30 17th-century actress Nell 



HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER JS, l'l99 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tommy Lee Jones, Oliver Sto1w, Qan Marino, Scull Thompson llakl'r, Prince Harry 
Happy Birthday: It's time to takl' note of how much you do for oth,•rs and what you get in return. You must star! looking out for yoursl'lf first ,f you are serious abc,ut reaching your dreams and wishes. This is a war ,if progress and good fortune, but your success will be directly linked lo vnm ability to put yourself first. Your ,;um­bers: 5, 13, 27, 30, 35, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Dubi­ous get-rich-quick schemes will get you in over your head. Try to use )'Our energv wiselv. Exhaustion will result in ill health. It's best tc, put your tm1e and money into self-improvemenl 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll be in the d,,ghouse if you arc being stubborn aboul mak1nil changes around your home. Compro­mise will be necessary. You can't always have your own way. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It'; your tum to help those less iortunale Your ability to communicate and entertain wiil put you in the limelight 

Puzzle by Slephanie Spadaccini You can take a position of leadNship by voicing your opinions. 000 
45 "Look happy!" 50 Blabs

31 Japanese CANCER (June 21-July 22): wrestling 46 First name in TV 51 Spring Money-making opportunities are 32 Get ---the talk 
apparent You can come into extra 
52 Renown 
cash through ins11rance surrenders,
ground floor 

47 Hiding spot , rebates, inheritance or investments.
53 Fly like an eagle
33 W.BA calls 
Don't let the money \'Ou make slip
48 Milo or Tessie

34 "Come Back, 54 Texas Mustangs, through your fingers. 00000 Little Sheba" 49 Ginger cookie for short LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You must­n't neglect your household dutiesand.
playwright 
responsibilities to be wilh your
35 Naked runners 
friends. Family members ·will

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
37 "Yippee'" be extremely upset with your selfish 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
attitude.CO
38 Designer Karnali 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Som,,om• 43 Writing pad Annual subscriptions are available for the 
EUGENIA LAST 

1·ou work with 111,1y tr)' lo n1ver up errors th.it will cnnw back to h,1un1 )'OU. Chee~ w,,rk carl'fully to al'nid such problems. lfomancc will be vour~ if }'tiu $nci,1lizc.· with frit1 nds 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Ynur invoivemL'nt in organizations will bl' draining bul rew.1rding. Don'I let thosl' who t>ppo,e your ideas sto/' you fwm loll,1w111i; through wit 1 your plans. 000 
SCORPIO (Ocl. 23-Nov. 211: Don't jump to conclusions aboul situation~ that are changmg al work. It is best tll nde out the stnrm and b,• profession· al, regardless ol !he way things appear to b,• 000 
SAGfffAIUUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) You can pick up valuabl,• 1nform.1­ti0n. Don't worry loo nuich c1bout lrit•nds or reldtivrs who insist llfl meddling 111 )'our affairs. Just tell them to mind th,,ir own busin<'ss 
000 
CAPRICORN (l)ec. 22-Jan. 19); R,,ad bctwem th,• luws. Signing con­tracts or agn't'ments \.-viH not be u1 your best interests Emot1onal matters concerning elders in vour la1111ly will be upsettmg Take th111gs one step ,1t., 
hmc.0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) You'll nverr,,acl 1/ \'our mah• accuse, you 11I doing sc,m;,1hmg vou didn'I do. Try to h•,-p thl' fWacc,' and don'I 
· let ,·ourself slip 1nt11 Jq1ression. It ,s b<•st In concentrat,• on getting alwad 
00 
PISCES (l'eb. 19-March 20): You need lo channel your energy 1ntt, vour work Collt>agues will bt> helptul and eager tn inlrnduce vnu to some• one.they th111~ \'Ol1'c1 'iikt> Mixing business w1tl1 pll'asur,• isn't J bad idea 00000 
44 Baggage best of Sunday crosswords from the last Bi_rthday, Baby: You a_re 9u1e1 L,ut knoh•leJgeable l'l'gard1ng life, love and 
handler 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS happmess. \ou are secretive about ,·our intentions and reluctant to share willi 
others. Although you're devoted to 1·,1ur beliefs, vou'l'C' not one to push th,'m 
nn others. (N7ed advice? Check out Eug,•nia's Web sites at aslroadvice.com, eugemalast.com, astromate.com.) 
C 1999 Uniwrsal rn.>ss Svndtt\lll'

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: 1he Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ____________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
Mirer's the man in NY 
-
Former Irish quarterback Rick Mirer gets another chance as a starting quarterback in the NFL with the New York Jets. 
PORTS 

page 26 


O
THE page 32 BSERVER Wednesday, September 15, 1999 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Cox's goal sends Irish to 1-0 victory over Vikings 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Wrirer 

-
The Irish looked for some confidence heading into this weekend's Big East matchups 
and found it Tuesday ·night with a 1-0 win over the Cleveland State Vikings. 
"As for our confidence level, a. win is a win.~ senior forward Hyan Cox said. "We got the goal we needed and then hung in there tight at the end. We're expecting some pretty decent results this weekend." 
The Irish and the Vikings traded possessions early on and had trouble clearing the ball past the midfield in the opening minutes of play. After the initial struggle for control. the Irish went on the offensive at the seven-minute mark and dominated for the rest of the game. 

..... 
Notre Dame, building from the backfield and utilizing a patient attack, delivered 11 unanswered shots on goal in the first half. 
"Cleveland State's a tough team to play," Cox said. "They're coming in here thinking 'We're playing Notre Dame.' They get psyched wanting to beat Knute Rockne, Joe Montana. Hudv and the whole -so it's always a going to be a diffi­cult game because they get pumped up." 
Cox ignited the offense 
see SOCCER/page 28 
FOOTBALL 

Davie addresses pressure and tough Irish schedule 
By TIM CASEY  Dame. He also knew the sched­ule wouldn't allow for any easy  probably could have gone to easier places than Notre Dame.  Lou Holtz's final three years, the Irish schedule featured a  going down to Purdue and play against Drew Brees," Davie  
Sports W ricer  games.  "But to say all things  are  total  of 11  ranked  teams.  said.  
When  Bob  Davie  was  "When you look at the next stretch of games, there's not  equal, I don't think that's real­ly the case when you look at  Including the first three games of this year, the Irish have  "But it [the schedule! is a challenge and a concern par­ 
appointed  the  Notre Dame  many coaches licking their  some of the teams the other  played the same  amount of  ticularly with the expectations  
head coach three years ago. he knew the pressure associated with his  chops to go do that now," Davie said at Tuesday's press conference. "I don't care what  schools play," he said. Coming off consecutive last second losses, the Irish begin a  ranked teams in Davie's first 28 games as head coach. "Notre Dame's always played  as high as they are here and with trying to get into the Bowl Championship Series," Davie  
position. He real­ized Irish fans expect  they say. No one's looking for­ward to that. And then next vear with [TexasJ A&M at home Nebraska. Purdue and  stretch where three of the next six opponents are ranked in the top 25. Two others received votes in this week's  an extremely competitive schedule," Davie said. "To me, right now, it seems even more competitive than it did when I  said. "It would have helped if we had played some_ direction­al schools as I call them, instead of playing Michigan.  
- to compete for a national champi- Michigan State. It's like that for the next four or live years. "If we were looking for some­thing easy, there's a couple  Associated Press poll. As defensive coordinator for three years before his position as head coach, Davie does not  came to Notre Dame." Along with the negatives associated with the difficult schedule, Davie also sees that  Kansas and Purdue. But the reality is that it's a challenge." While national title and 13CS aspirations disintegrated the  
o n s  h i P  head coaching jobs that I could  remember facing schedules as  opportunities abound.  last two weeks, Davie said his  
every year and under- have had that would be easier than this one," Davie said. "And we have players that  tough as the ones he has faced in his tenure. In the 35 games contested in  "There's something about going to Michigan and playing In front of 111,000 people and  team will respond in the cum-see DAVIE/page 30  




-vs.Michigan St. vs. Buder s':i at Kalamazoo College ,
Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Today, 7 p.m. Today, 4 p.m.
SPORTS ~ 
ATA 

at Seton Hall Volleyball Volleyball Friday, 3 p.m. vs. Miami (Ohio) vs. Manchester College 
GLANCE 'Si • e Saturday, 7 p.m. Friday, 6:30 p.m. 


