
¦ The Serbian governmenc has ordered 
~im£ ~l!'p) 
Tuesday
Kosovo peace mission and U.N. officials to 

¦ Try out these '80s music, television, fads & fashion 
leave the country as fighting spread Monday. 
trivia questions. 
JANUARY 19, 
World & Nation • 5 
Scene• 11-12 
1999 
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary~fi 
VOL XXXII NO. 70 WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 
Third ·false Le Mans fire alarm forces evacuation 
Hy M. SIIANNON RYAN !em. rould result in a loss of life." nience Pnt,1rtaining. \aim Mary"• Fditor Monday morning's case was unrelated. Sara Salazar, a resident advisor in Lo "I think it's worth getting up for a lirn "It's definitely an unusual circum­Maus, also expressed concern about the drill at 1:30 in the morning just to sen all 
,\h"ut !iOO I.P !\lans llall rPsidnnls stancP. Them wcrnn'l noarlv as many f'requent false alarms. the parintal-brnaknrs running out." said ahandorwd thnir lwds. haltod late night false alarms · "It gets to the Carolyn Kelley, a sophomore Le Mans study snssions and lilod oul inlo tlln driz­when we had point where rosident. zl1\ early Monday morning in response to thn pull sys­residents arcn't Junior Julie Wall also witnessed tho yPt. anothnr f'alsP lin~ alarm. tem," Chlebek 'THE STAIRWELL WAS REALLY BACKED going to care one mah~ among the crowd or wom!'n. 
Tlw malfunction was caused when said, comparing anymore. You "I le started to walk away and then tlrn
UP. I THOUGHT, 'IF THIS WAS A 
wal('r rrurn a rnc1·11t thu11dcrstor111 and it to Lhc com­can only cry ILA. decided to chase af't<!r him so we all nwllin~ snow and icn seeped into a tubn puterized sys• REAL ARE, WE'D ALL BE DEAD."' wolf so many yelled, 'Run for your life,' and hn start<'d ro11tai11ing wiring that runs into the Le tcm, which was times," she running," she said. Mans tlall i:haµPl, snlting off tlw com­installed in said. But the volume of the sirens was a 
CAROLYN KHLEY
puteriznd systPm, said Hirhai-d Chlebek, 1986. Official fire concArn for Kelley and Wall. 
SO/>IIOMORH 1/fiW/Jl:Nr. LE MANS fJAU
dirt\clOr of Saint Mary's security. Concern has drills for th c "I was one of the last ones out," Kelley 
Tlw blaring of' the sirens at 1 :12 a.m. also been year were com-said. "I slept through it for a while." mark1~d llw third time since Dec. Ci that expressed that p Ie te d in Jill Aitchison, the Le Mans hall direc­f"alsn alarms lwvc sumrnorrnd residents students' safety October and tor, said that "bells were tested ancl mAt outsidn. In early DcccmlH\r, tho fire is put in jeopardy by tho false alarms. were arranged in time to avoid cold federal codes" before the fall semester. alarms rang because of a mall'unctioning "The problern is that once students get weather. People could sleep through it "if they'rn device in tlw computnr center both at 5 older, they can become complacent," Although many students were outside deep sleepers. It could be what stage of 
a.111. and again at 10 a.m. while maintc­Chlebek said. "Sometime it might be real for about 15 minutes without coats or sloep they're in or how their room is sAt 
nancP work,irs wern n1pairing the prob-and if they make the wrong decision it even socks, some found the ·inconve­see ALARM / page 4 
¦ CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Members debate excused absence for life marchers 
By tlNN PRESSLY Nt'w< \Vrill'I 
DPhatl' at last night's nwnting of tlw Campus 1.il'I' Council l"onrsPd 011 a proposal rciqunsting that proJ'Pssors l'Xl"IIS<' tlw absimrns ol' thosn students parti1·ipating in this w1idn11cl's Hight to Life March in Washington, !>.C. 
.l1111ior A..I. Boyd raisl'd tlw isstH', arguing that IH•causn the stuc!Pnts will be participating in an al'l.ivily that rl'l'le1·ts tlw Call10lic mission of the l111iv1•rsity, tlwir absnnr<' on Friday should be 
l'XCllSPd. 
"NotrP llanin is often ridiculed because it docs not ol'ficially rncogniz<~ studnnt involv,iment in the Hight to Lil'n movenwnt," said Boyd. "I was hoping to g<'l lfw cu; to approve a letter to supJJort tile marrli." 
SistPr Mary Ann Mueninghoff, rnctor of l'asq1wrilla l•:ast llall. not<'d that other students who parlicrpaw in nvPnts·congruous with !he rhariwl11r or tlH• University, such as tlrn Notre llanw Fncountnr, do not receive excus·nd absP111'.flS and conl<'ndnd that march pa.rtic.ipa.nts should not lw an 1ixcnption. 
Assista11t vin!-prnsid<•nt for lfosidence Lif'n Bill Kirk c•xprnssPd similar rPluctancc lo Roycl's pro­posal. 
"I would hnsilatc• to make that. argument an isstll' today," said Kirk. 
fin did. hownvt1r. say IH' plans lo draft a lnttPr to faculty nw111h1\rS to rngarcl the marchers' absence with somn dngn11'. of lt~niency because of the n,tlttr<' of' thnir abseni:n. Notrn Darno has tradi­tionally sn11 l tlrn largost univ1irsity contingflncy to tlw march. 
Falltrn· ])avid Sclrnidlnr, rector of St. Edward's llall. qtwsl.imwd thP UnivNsity policy of granting varsity athlntns thnw excusncl absoncns per class plus additional absenc1is for conforence or cham­pionship part icipatinn. 
"Wlwn vinwncl in the light of" varsity sports, it mak!\S it a !illlc morn jarring that wn don't olfor m11n• tangihln support f'or tlwsn groups," said Schddlnr. 
Thn Council a~rnt'd to i:rnal.n a committee that would li,r1nulall' a lotter io tl10 community voicing 
see CLC I page 4 
A1tt,,e1.,-ic-a-1'1,,6 1.,-e1tt,,e~6-e1.,-a-M,,d 
/4-c-1-1,,c-t, Q)t-. -K,; i,1-1,,')' 
Citizens ofAtlanta celebrated Martin Luther King, Jr.'s birthday Monday following a memorial service at the Ebenezer Baptist Church. 
Above: Hosea Williams ( center, in overalls) leads marchers through downtown Atlanta. Left: Crowds gather outside the city's Martin Luther King, Jr. Center. 

KRT Photos 
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Tuesday, January 19, 1999 


Doomsday Here? 
The encl is near. Surrender all hope and give 
up. 
I am not talking about the coming millenni­
um and the possible Y2K disaster. The 
absolute worst that could come of that is the 
end of dvilization as we 
Mike Connolly 
know it. No. I spfiak of a far, f'ar 
Spom Copv Editor 
greater threat. A threat -------­
that will take away the very soul of Notre 
Dame -The Big Ten. 
For decades Notre Dame has prospered from 
its national football prominence. It was Notre 
Dame Ftmtbal\ that bruught in the money to 
build the Joyce Center. rt was Notre Dame 
Football that· prompted Edward DeBartolo to 
give us the money to build Dellartolo Hall. (Do 
you think it was a coincidencP that DeRartolo 
gave $40 million the year after the 1988 
National Championship'?) 
rt was Notre Dame football that vaultrd this 
University to national prominence and allowed 
us to become the great university that we are. 
;\nd yet, the Administration seems bent on 
throwing all of that away for membership in 
the Big Ten. 
The alumni don't like the idea of' the Big Ten. 
Most students seem not to like the idea of the 
Big Ten. And one of the things that makes 
Notre Dame unique among all other universi­
ties in this country, the subway alumni., are 
dead set against the Big Ten. 
But these aren't the people who will make 
the decision regarding mcmbr•rship in the Big 
Ten. The ones that will be affected most bv this 
decision. will have the least say. The Board of 
Trustees will render their decision regarding 
the Big Ten in early February. The decision 
will not be made on campus. The decision will 
not even be made on .t\merican soil: The deci­
sion will be made far from the "No Big Ten" 
signs and the protesting shouts of alumni, stu­
dents and fans. The decision will come from 
London. 
In London there will be no outcry, no crowds 
of people surrounding the place where they 
will meet screaming "NO BIG TEN!" They will 
not have to weigh the passion, the love and the 
dedication of every Notre Dame fan as he fights 
to keep Notre Dame independent. 
They will look at nice, neat reports outlining 
the positives, but there will be no passion. 
And when they decide to crush the proudest 
football tradition in America and cast it aside 
like just another referendum before them, they 
won't have to worry about not being able to 
see every Irish game on TV. Losing the chance 
to renew the NBC contract for every Irish home 
game won't affect them. They can just pay for 
every game on their satellite dish. 
But what about John the steelworker in New 
York? The man who grew up watching and 
loving the Irish? He may have never attended 
the University, but no one loves the Irish more 
than he does. He has his Irish sweatshirts, t­
shirts, hats, everything Irish. He has made 
donations to the school. They may have been 
small and nothing in comparison to the fat-cats 
on the Board of Trustees, but thev were some­
thing. . 
And now, with the loss of the NBC contract, 
he can't watch the Irish anvmore. He can't 
afford a sateliite dish and the-Irish are only on 
TV about three or four times a year. 
The Irish, his Irish, have abandoned him. He 
never abandoned them. Not through the down 
times, not when the Irish were losing. And now 
the University has turned its back on him. 
It wasn't f~t-cats and the Big Ten that made 
ND great. It was John and playing a national 
schedule that put Notre Dame into national 
prominence and transformed it into the great 
center of learning that it is. 
But it's aln•ady too late. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obs('rV('r. 
¦ Toruw·s STAFF  
News  Scene  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Michelle Barton  
Brad Untiedt  
Maureen Smithe  Graphics  
Sports  Scott Hardy  
Brian Kessler  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eduardo Llull  Liz Lang  
Wednesdayit1 45 31 Thursday ~ 47 38


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exct::pt during ex.am ::ind vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press, All reproduction nghts are reserved. 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Alcohol policy change affects students and parents 
HARRISONBURG, Va. 
In a major student policy move, James Madison University officials announced Friday that beginning on· March 15, parents ·or students under 
· age 21 will be notified of students' on-and off-campus alcohol viola­tions. "Parents have a lot more power uver students than ,,e do," said l\1ark Warner. vice president of stu­dent affairs. "For a lot of people with a substance abuse problem, the intervention plan we have hasn't worked." So starting on the day students return from what is sometimes the revelry of spring break, parents of students under age 21 will be noti­fied if a student has a single "major offense.'' These offenses include dri­ving under the influence, possessing an illegal keg, distributing drugs or being under the in11uenr.e of drugs. 
¦ LlAhTMCIUTH COLLEGE. 
Students question lack of award 
HANOVER, N.H. 
This past December when the year's 32 Rhodes Scholars were· announced, Hil.rvard, Yale and the University of Chicago had much to celebrate, with Harvard and Chicago producing three recipients each and Yale producing two. Meanwhile in Hanover, stu­dents and administrators were left to wonder for anoth­er year what's wrong with Dartmouth -out of the 12 Dartmouth students who applied only one made it to the final round and none were selected as Scholars. With just two winners within the last four years and not much success in the recent past, Dartmouth's Chair of the Committee on Graduate Fellowships Monika Otter said she is puzzled by the College's inability to produce Rhodes Scholars. "I wish I knew better," she said. "We are currently forming some sort of group to talk more about why Dartmouth students don't win." 
¦ DUKE Uti!VERS!TV Research leads to theory about ADHD 
DURHAM, N.C. 
Thanks to a new set of Duke-based research, medical sci­
ence may be a step closer to understanding attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The r-esearch, published in 
today's issue of Science, one of the most prominent scientif­
ic journals, suggests that ADHD might be caused by an . 
imbalance of the neurotransmitter serotonin rather than 
dopamine, which is the more commonly suspected culprit. 
Little is kno"vn about ADHD, which affects thousands of 
children in this country. Between 3 percent and 6 percent 
of children between ages 4 and 14 are thought to have the 
condition. Children with ADHD have difficulty paying atten­
tion to directions and often have trouble learning. In some 
cases, affected children experience problems controlling 
what they say or do, sometimes hitting other children. 
When doctors diagnose ADHD, treatment often includes 
psychiatric ti:eatment as well as drug therapy. 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
/ .. ·...... 
H Tuesday ~38 25
·+·-:: . . 
' .......... 



Friday ~i44°38 
Saturday ,441 3:i·· 
r~'---·--x..,,••-. 


~,Q,~q~Q (f 
-~ u 
Showers T•storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphlcsNet 


James Madison University 
On the second "minor offense," which include open container viola­tions, illegal possession of alcohol, drinking in public or public intoxica­tion, parents will be notified. 
The policy is wide sweeping, as it includes violations during a student's entire time at JMU, and it also includes violations that occur on or off rampus. The number of violations rolls over each year until the student turns 21. 
If the policy would've been in effect during the fall semester, 139 parents would have had been notified, Warner said. In a university of over 13,000 students, that is about 1 per­cent of the student population. "There's a lot of people this won't even affect," Warner said. 
Any violations student accrue until March 15 will not be counted in the policy. The policy for on-and off­rampus violations differs slightly. In on-campus violations, parents would be notified if, after a university judi­cial proceeding, the student is found guilty. In off-campus violations, the parents would be notified once a stu­dent is arrested and charged, 
The difference, Warner said, lies in the amount of time the two types of proceedings take. University judicial proceedings usually take a few months, while the court system's timetable is much longer, and in that case, "we won't be able to have an impact on behavior," Warner said. 
¦ lh\l!VERSHY Report shows state schools under par 

CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. 

Tennessee's public colleges and universities arc underfunded, poorly organized and of mediocre quality compared to public schools in other states, accc.rding to a draft report obtained Monday by a Nashville newspa­per from a governor-appointed panel. The 73-page report, released by a panel appointed by Gov. Don Sundquist to study the state's higher education system and recommend improvements, recommends $441 mil­lion to fix the problems of Tennessee's public colleges and universities. "Simply put, our state's economy and civic well being, and the well being of our individual cit­izens, will likely suffer if we cannot forcefully and quick­ly elevate the effectiveness of our public higher educa­tion system," the report says. Tennessee must begin to pull its public institutions of higher education up to a more competitive level, according to the report. 
¦ Bosnmi Urw1Ertsnv 
Students fly for free by volunteering 
BOSTON, Mass. 

Flying home for the holidays or away for spring break can be expensive, but students don't have to be taken for a ride. United Airlines is now offering students a unique way to earn free flights without spending any money. The program, called College Plus VolunteerMiles, allows students who volunteer for one of six organizations to earn 5,000 frequent-flier miles for every 50 hours of vol­unteer time. Among the volunteer groups in the program are Habitat for Humanity, Special Olympics and the Make-A-Wish Foundation. The program offers other dis­counts to students as well, even if they don't volunteer. Members receive 15 percent off published fares, as well as other dollar discounts, and even get a bonus when they graduate, according to a written statement from the airline. Even without special student deals, frequent­
flyer discounts can offer a good deal. 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Jan. 19. 
0 1999 AccuWealher, Inc, COLD WARM STATIONARY 
High  Low  Showers  Aain  T-storms  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago  58 55 41  61  42 39 29 28  Des Moines 37 Dallas 74 Denver 41 Indianapolis 48  27 47 23 37  llhaca 46 Las Vegas 61 Milesville 40 San Diego 65  25 40 21 56  

• ... 
Tuesday. January 19. 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SMC recycling lacks student support, motivation 
sairl Sarnrcki. spring as well as plans l'or hik­With the help of the science ing trips and organic dinners. department, SMEAC is reach­Jill Aitchinson, the Le Mans ing out to students in a variety II aII Direc t or, is a wom·a n 
commonly framed as opposing the environment movement at Saint Mary's. Aitchinson, who'IDON'T LIKE COMING OUT is concerned with limitations such as fire codes and lack of
AS THE BAD GUY, BUT 
space, is compelled to denyMY HANDS ARE TIED. You requests for recycling plans involving the Le Mans lobby
CAN'T JUST LET UNRINSED 
and hallways.
CANS AND FlAMMABLE ITEMS 
"I qon 't like coming out as the bad guy, but my hands arc tied," said Aitchinson in responsr, to recent accusa­
Jill AITCHINSON tions. "You can't just let /JIRl!C'TYJR, lli MANS HM.I. unrinsed cans and nammable items sit around," she said. In addition, lef't over of ways. droplets of soda attract bugs, 
"13eforc fall break we had create bacteria, and leave arranged to hold recycling dri­behind· an unwelcome stench ves twice a month," Sarnecki after finally being picked up. said. "John Marshall and the 
Rnsides tlw recycling drives, maintenancP crew should not SMEAC will be hosting an have to clean up after students Eat'th Day celebration this more than they already do," 
SIT AROUND,' 
Cro5t5t Country -~ki Clinic~ 
[ 

PICK ONE OR MORE 

Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge 
R~~ 
Aitchinson said. 
Currently, tlrn amount ol' paper being recycled at Saint Mary's is not oven enough to cover payments to r<ltain Urn service. 
"Le Mans is not a dumping off place for anything. It is a meeting place. I would not want it to become a collection site," said Aitchinson. "As far as I know the rncycling center was never placed in Le Mans." 
Aitchinson claimed to have heard of' a survey indicating that student inten1st in recy­cling projects was lacking and indicated that, cwfln if she was able to do morn, student sup­port would not be behind her. 
"I would like to see the stu­dent body work together lo make the cause worth while," she said, suggesting that stu­dents organize a fundraisor to provide money f'or a trial peri­od with extensive rncycling units. 
Said one Saint Mary's fresh­man, "Recycling is not some­thing the administration is supposed to do ulonn. If stu• dents want to Im <mvironnrnn­ta!ly responsiblo, t.lwy must be willing to got tlrnir hands dirty." 

Interested in writing for News? Visit us at 5 p.m. Sundays in theSDH conference room. 
Hy MEGHAN DONAHUE 
New, Writer 
l'vlPmbnrs ol' an environmnn­ta l action group at Saint Mary's am facing challenges this ynur as they utt11mpl to mak1• rncyt·ling mor!' accessi­bhi. 
The Saint Mary's FnvironmPntal Action Coalition (SM EAC), which was iniliatnd in the fall of 1997, has tried lo expand ilw recy­cling efl'orl at thn College, which currenlly recycles only p,qwr and aluminum cans. 11ut many slud1mts still do not takfl aclvanlagn of this opportunity. 
The group originally chose IP Muns Ilall as tlrn cnntral location to place bins for easy-

access rrcyding. but this choice was met with opposi­tion. 
"The I.n Mans Ila!! Director was afraid students would makfl a mess, so we werr, told lo !nave," said Carolyn Sarnecki, a SMEAC member. 
Another area of concern for th<l group is the additio'r1 of vending machines in dorms that sell plastic bottles of soda. Although Saint Mary's supplies blue recycling bins for aluminum cans, vending areas do not have the proper places to rncyclo the plastic bottles. 
"We hope to appeal to the conscienco of the student if' the administrative offices rPf'US(~ lo support our efforts," 
Kellogg ln,lilule Calin llmerican film lerie, 
In addition to braving the multiple perils of being a teenager, the wistful adolescent son of a sheep-ranching family bears witness to the endangerment of his bucolic village's slow-paced lifestyle In Argentina's Bermejo Valley when a corporate conglomerate tries to buy out the valley where the flocks live. "This film by Argentinian wrllar-<llrector Adolfo Aristarain was nominated for an Academy Award before being disqualified on a lechnlcallty, and by and large It's better than most foreign movies that get nominated for Oscars." (The Chicago Reader') 
Spanish wlEnglish subtitles 

The NEW LIBRARY WEB 



IS HERE! 
Try it out at <http://www.nd.edu/-ndlibs/>. 

The Observer/Dave LaHeist CLC members debated whether or not to write a letter recommending that excused absences be granted to Right to Life march participants. 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
-support for not only those par­ticipating in the 11ight to Life March but for all students involved in activities that foster the Catholic character of the University. 
ln other CLC news: 

• Tim FitzSimons and the Academics committee reported their progress in examining the quality levels of advising and how they differ among col­
leges. 
The Academics committee is also involved in informing stu­dents about the rules contained in the Faculty Handbook. 
• The Alcohol Committee announced its new campaign to provide information to stu­dents about their legal options following a run-in with University or St. Joseph County police. 
• Brian O'Donoghuc invoked the blessing of the Counci I on the recent engagement of Student Union Board manager Ryan Sti>cz. 


WantA Challenge? 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force Officer Training School. There you will become a commissioned officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enjoy great pay, complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year, 
plus the opportunity to travel and AIM HIGH see the world. To discover how high Ala . a career in the Air Force can take
, 
-K­

-IORCE"" you, call 1-800-423-USAF, or visit our website at www.airforce.com
www.airforce.com 

The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, Janu,uy 19, 1999 


AlarID 
continued from page 1 

up. You have to weigh all th<~ factors." 
Salazar said that the exiting process was not quick enough to ensure safetv if tlrn emer­gency had been ·real. Since the alarm offset was not planned, eml:rgcncy nxit doors did not. automatically unlock and the glass case on ihe door had to be broken. Because some students were hesitant to break the glass, a standstill took place in the stairwell, according to Cecilia Dandini, another Lfl Mans Hall resident advisor. 
"The stairwell was really backed up," Knlley said. "f thought, 'If this was a real fire, we'd aH be dead.'" 
Chlebek could not say if the middle-of-the-night false alarms are through. 
"It's impossible to predict," he said. "As much as maintenance would love to control it, it's an event that's uncontrollable." 
Best BuddieSBig Brothers and Big SistersCampus  
Notre Dame Campus Girl Scouts Center for the Ho  
Circle K International Community Alliance to Serv  NDEOP  
Experiential Learning Council First Aid Services Team  
Helpful Undergraduate Students Notre Dame Hospic  
Knights of Columbus Logan center Manantia  
Ms. Wizard Day Program Team  
Right to Life Special Friends  
Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry  
Students Against Destructive De  
AIDS Awareness  
Best BuddieSBig  
Notre Dame Campus Girl Scouts  
Circle K International Community  
Experiential Leaming Council  
Helpful Undergraduate Students Notre Dam  
Knights of Columbus Logan Center  
Ms. Wizard Day Program Team  
Right to Life Special Friends  
Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry  
Students Against Destructive Decisions  
Students for Responsible Business  University Young Life  


Tue~day, January 19, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS ¦ YUGOSLAVIA 
Christian tattoo artist battles devil 
BIS\1/\HCK, ND 
Handy Mastrn is a tattoo artist or Christian Ilwnws. !IP i11ks .l<•sus into his rnstonwrs. llis Latlrnwd Bihlirnl i11srriptio11s and portraits of' Christ providi• startling !'ontrast to nHirn typi­ral flaming skulls and "Born to Hais«' llPII" markings adorning lllf' lt•athnr-dad liiknrs he ruhs Pillows with al national tattoo ('.OllV!Hl­tions. It was at on<' or thosP <:011w11tio11 that II<' llll't th<• Hnv. lhrni1d Ostrowski. a born­again Christian and Word of' Faith pastor who runs a lalt.110 pnrlor in Wausau. Wis. Last yPar. th<' two cfp1•idPd to unit<' ot.lwr Christian tattom•rs. SinrP thPn. ,ii most I 00 tattoo par­lors anoss thP nation hav,\ !ward tlw rail of' tlu• Christian Tattoo ,\ssoriation. •·our idnu is: I.Pt's lilk1· Chrislianitv uul ol' l·loistPnid halls and pul it right in tiw f'orurn wlH't'I' pPoplP liVP, and ll't's 111alw it so ,·pal, so 11p-to-dal1'. so Imlay lhat il i111pal'ts 1woplt>s' liv<1s." 
Ventura highway possible 
IHWOKI.YN PAHK. Minn . 
.!Psst\ VPntura took a strang,1 road to tlrn govPrnor's ol'lirl'. Now. two statn lawmakers wa11t lo 11.tlllP a highway al't1•r him. Snn. !.inda Srlrnid and HPp. l>arl1Hw l.ullwr havn prnp11sPd naming U.S. I lighway h 10. whid1 is und<•r constru<'tion lwtw11Pn llrookly11 Park and \laplP c;row, "V1•nturn llighway." Tl11•y say t IH• fonnPr prol'Pssional wrnstler dPSPrVl'S Lill' rPn1g11ition lwcausP hn lobhiml 
ASSOCIATED PHESS Milosevic aboul bringing those to justice who should bP
C:011grPss for $3h million for thn project punished for this and coming into complianco with tlrn
wlwn hn was tlw mayor of Brooklyn Park, Ddying global outrage over llrn massacre of civilians, agreements that he made," White llouse press sncrntary
from I CJ<J I to l lJ<J5. "VPntura l lighway" is llw !JalTl(' of a 11)72 song by the group Serb forces pounded villages Monday with artillery. The Joe Lockhart said in Washington. government also ordered the American head of the Kosovo Kosovo's Serb minority and Milosevic's ultra-nationalist
Anwrica. T!l(1 band play1•d thn song at VPntura's inaugural hash Saturday night. peace mission to leave the country and barred a U.N. inves­allies have been demanding the government crush the eth­ligalor looking into the massacre. nic Albanian Kosovo Liberation Army.
C:ritil's say Vrn1tura shouldn 'l bn singlnd out 
Fighting spread Monday to northern Kosovo, where eth­Tensions rose dramatically Saturday after international
!'or praisP. "f would tak<) it as sort of a per­nic Albanian rebels attacked a Serb vehicle, wounding live verifiers found the bodies of 45 ethnic Albanians, including
sonal affront ii' that would happen," said 
.I a 111 ns Kr au l k r n nw r. an o tlrn r form er policemen in an ambush 25 milesnorthwcst of tho provin­three women and a 12-year-old boy, in a gully nnar thn vil­lage of Racak, 20 miles south of' Pristina.
lfrrn1kly11 Park mayor. cial capital. Pristina. The defiant moves after last week's massacre or 45 ethnic William Walker, the Amnrican head of the intnrnalional Albanian civilians indicated President Slobodan Milosevic 
peace verification mission, accused Snrb polico or thn mas­Bus accident kills six was willing to risk further international prnssurc in his sacre, despite government claims the dead wnrn gunrrillas campaign against rebels seeking indcpendencfl from the killed in combat. 
SAl'\.iT/\ FE. /\rgnntina 
main Yugoslav republic, Serbia. The U.N. Security Council held an emergency m,HitingA bus plungPd :rn !'PPL inlo a rivt)r af'tnr 
:'J/\TO's supreme commander. Gen. Wesley Clark, and Monday to discuss the massacre. rnlliding with a rnr, killing six iwoplc. Tim "It's an emergency situation, and I think thn council could
G11r1111m Gen. Klaus Naumann, planned to fly to the 
bodi<'s of liw pPoplc wen• bP!iewd to Im still Yugoslav capital of Belgrade on Tuesday to warn Milosevic not stand idln while these things am happnning," Brazil's in tlw bus. Efforts to locate tlw missing pas­
he is facing military action unless he abides by the U.S.­U.N. ambassador and currnnt council prnsidnnt Ctdso sPngPrs w1•n• haltPd law Sunday al'lt\l' a negotiated OcL 12 deal that ended seven months of light­Amorim told rnporters as he entnrecl the council chamlwr. truck with a rnount11d crane trying lo ing. In Vienna, Austria, David Johnson, thn U.S. ambassador rPLriPVf' llw sunkPn bus slipped over the 
The generals wPre to have gonn to Belgrade on Monday to the Organization for Security and Coopnration in Europe.bridgp's sidl' and f'Pll into tlw rivnr. Tlw 
but delayed the visit after Yugoslav authorities said expressed outrage Monday over Yugoslav aulhorili11s' 1Ta11l' opnralnr nsrapPd unharnwd. Tim car Milosevic was Loo busy to see them. "scandalous attempt to present the cold-blooded slaughter and bus <·ollidl'd l'arly Sunday morning on 
"I think a strong message will be brougl1t lo President and mutilation of civilians as a military operation against I lw bridgn ov.•r tlw t:olastinn river about 
terrorists." :{ 10 mi his northwest of the capital. lhumos Ain•s. Tlw impact turn1•d tlw bus sickways. l'orring it 11vpr Lill' hridgP's Pdge and into tlw 
¦ ROMANIA 

riVPr. Among tlwse kil!Pd was tlrn driv11r of' thl' rnr, said a Coast Cuard ol'licial. 


Police attack striking miners 
ASSOCIATED PRESS in the offort to make it more efficient. tion Ant<ma 1 rnported. Interior Minister Gavril Dejcu There were no immediate reports BUCHAREST claimed th1\ strikers aimed to topple of injuries. A column of 10.000 striking coal the government, Leaders of Uw two sidns roportnctly
THE STOCK . 
miners ignored a plea from Prime Leaders of Romani.L's ruling four• mHt afterward to nngotiatu for lhn Minister Radu Vasile that they return party coalition urged the mbiC'rs to miners' return to Pntrosani.

MARKETS WERE 
home and dashed with troops trying end 1helr protPst. and disre~ard the The commandf1r of thH inh1rior to halt their march on Homania's calls of "false loadors," a roforonco to ministry troops in tho nrea, Gun.
CLOSED ON 
capital, tolt!vision stations rnport.id Cozma. Gheorghe Lupu, present1id an offer Monday. An ultimatum urging the govern­from the premier to nngot.iat.P rwr­
Police helicopters sprayed tear gas ment lo incrnas·<, minors' salaries by sona.lly with Urn mi1wrs, tho private and dropped smoke bombs on the 35 percent and reopen two mines in television station PHO-TV rnportt•d. 
MONDAY, JAN. 
marcht'rs, who began walking the Jiu Vull(!Y Pxpired Monday morn­''This an atlPmpt by I.ht• promior to toward liucharest from tlrn mining ing. Tho miners want $10,000 each if' a.void a clash bf1twrm1 th" polire 
18. IN HONOR 
they loso thoir jobs. The miners, said forces and illegally striking 111i11ms," wages and job security. Pelrosani is to be cold and hungry, began to with­said Adriana Sal'tuiu, a gov<'rnment 1 55 milrs northwc>st of tho city. draw in panic all.nr units of special spokeswoman. 
OF MARTIN 
town of Petrosani to demand bPtter 
LUTHER KING 
Homania's government wanls to interior ministry troops fired tear gas Earlier. Interior Ministry troops 
dose unprofilabll.i coal minns. The canister!:i at them along the road to used explosives to blow up rorks for minors' fiery leader. Miron Cozma, Rttcharest. The two sides clashed rubble and built crud,, barricadns on has accused it of killing off the coun­

DAY. 

briefly, and somo miners trampled the road from Potrosani and tho try's Communist-era mining industry one another, private television sta• western Jiu Valley. 

Tuesday, January 19, 1999
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
Professor's -widow donates funds to sponsor endowed lectureship 
Yoder, who had taught at Notre Dame since
Special to The Observer 1968, died a year ago on Dec. 30 after suffering a Notre Dame has received a gift from Anne heart attack in his Decio Hall oflice. lie had cele­Marie Yoder, the widow of Notre Dame theology brated his 70th birthday with his family the day professor John lloward Yoder, to establish an before. endowed lectureship in her late husband's memo­A devout Mennonite who believed that non-vio­lence is an imperative for all Christians, Yoder
ry. 
The lectureship, entitled the John Howard resisted the notion that "Christians should be Yoder Dialogues on Nonviolence, Heligion and assimilated into secular society and insisted that Peace, will be administ11rcd by the Kroc Institute the Church is itself and entirely new society which for International Peace Studies. embodies the forgiveness and self-sacrificing love "We will be sponsoring lectures and activities of Jesus. llis scholarship and teaching have pro­that honor .John's work, particularly as expressed foundly influenced theological discussions about in two popular courses that he taught frequently war, social justice and the relationship between for the Institute: Heligious Hoots of Non-violence church and state. He is the author of several 
and Voices of' Non-violence," said Robert books, including "The Priestly Kingdom," "What .Johansen, acting director of the Institute. Would You Do?" and "The Politics of .Josus." 
Tenn. twisters kill, do damage 
Associated Press called to warn her about the heard the tornado. They ran storm, and minutes later she ran inside an<l huddled in the bath­.JACKSON, Tenn. to the bathroom with her sister­room as winds peeled off their 
Hcsidents of a housing subdivi­in -1 aw and 9-year-old niece roof. sion hard-hit by a deadly tornado "when we heard that train "We were praying very loudly got their first daylight look sound." to God and he was listening to Monday at the damage -homes "I just felt like this was the us," she said. reduced to rubble and debris end," said Morrow. "As we got in Once the storm passed, her strnwn all around. there, it just started caving in." teen-age son went to check on a 
Eight people were killed The Morrow home was neighbor and freed him after statewide by twisters and at least destroyed. She and her relatives finding the man trapped under a 100 were hurt. At least 600 suffered cuts and bruises. refrigerator. homes were damaged. After scent dogs finished In the Charles Latham subdivi­searching the area for victims, 
sion about two-thirds of 90 Charles Latham subdivision resi­homes were destroyed by the dents who spent the night in twister that struck Sunday night. shelters or elsewhere were A woman and her daughter died allowed back. Amid the wide­there when their home was lev­spread devastation. an undis· eled. turbed dining room table and 
Four others died in the Jackson chairs could be seen through a area and two died elsewhere in gaping hole in one home. the state. Several of those hurt Teresa McCabe and her hw;­were critkally injured. band were taking photos of light­
Gerlene Morrow said her sister ning from their deck when they 

;!f:hemical engineering ;rof·wins. nat'l award or computing, science 
.$pedal to The Observer 

Mark Stadtherr, professor of chemical engineering at Notre 
•Danie, has received the 1998 Computing in Engineering Award fromthe American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE). P;i;esented in November at the AIChE annual meeting in Miami ~each, Florida, the award is the top national recognition for 'outstanding contributions in the field of t:omputing in dwmical 

. !i)eting. 

dthcrr is an internationally known author and lecturer in ttl~ field of chernical process systems engintlering. His primary JW"search focus(:1s on developing fast and reliabl<~ computnr tnethods for thn design of chemical manufacturing processes that are .safer, environmentally cleaner, and less costly to oper­ate. An area of particular interest is the application of parallel coiu.puting technology. 
· Stadtherr is currently collaborating on a National Science .Foundation project, which aims to incorporate the results of re<;ent and ongoing research on environmentally conscious i::h¢tnical process design into chemical engineering curricula. 'f~is will help shift the fo<;ui,; of environmental teaching etror(s 

Pl ,r¢m~diatio11 --that· is, treatment after the fact -to pre• 
t~~rf reteived his ha'che1or's.degree in chemical engi~ m4hel,Jnlversity of Minnesota and his doctorate University of Wisconsin. He was a membm· of the arengineering faculty at the University of Illinois at ,rQtbi:ina-Ghampa.ign until joining the Notre Dame facully in 
0 

BIOSPHERE 2 : SEMESTER 'ABROAD' cf',
.I/2 Price . 
Slots still available for 
'embershi .S',.
FALL 1999 AND SPRING 2000 Open to all majors For January · p.··. ;
Interested students should pick up an application or call: 
152A FITZPATRICK HALL, x1-8376 or check this website http://www.bio2.edu 
fl.eek out our Websicet 
·· 1111://WWW,nd,edu/--a.s, 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
vs. 

RUTGERSSETON HALL 
January 19th at 7:30 pm January 23rd at 12:00 pm 
Support Your Fighting Irish!!! 

Tuesday, January 19, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Homeless protest sidewalk laws 
As.sodated Preu 
PHILADELPHIA 

Homeless advocates lay down on the sidewalks along a busy shopping district Monday to protest a now ordinance· allowing police to fine and in sonrn cases remove vugrants sitting or living on the side­w11lks. 
The "sidewalk behavior" ordinanc{l also offers moro shelter bt}ds, mental-health programs and substance-abuse counsoling. Advocates say ii will help the homeloss by pro­viding tnmtment when needed. 
But what has made the law so contentious is a provision thnt outlaws lying or sitting on sid(~walks. 
About l 00 protosters bHaring si~ns reading "Thti City of Brotherly WIIAT'?" and chanti• ng "Stop the war on the puor" staged a rally at City Hall then walked to the posh Rittenhouse Square areu. where Lhey lay down in thn rain along a two­block stretch of sidewalk. 
The protesters planned to stay there ovornight until Tuesday, when the law takes efTect. 
No arresL-; had beP.11 made by Monday aftnrnoon. 
'"This is a bill specifically tar­!{Pting the homeless. and that's fundanrnntally unfair,» said William 0'13ricn of Project 11.0.M.E, a nonprofit group that lrnlps the homeless find 
housing and jobs. "It says some people are: welcome ·In Philadelphia and some arc not." 
The American Civll Liberties Onion of Pennsylvania planned to file a lawsuit Tuesday seek­ing an injunction against the ordinance. 
Under the measure, aggres­sive pnnbandling could result In a $100 fine. SUUng or lying on a public sidewalk for more than one hour in a two-hour· period could bring a $20 fine. 
Police ollicers would have to call an outreach team of men~ tal health or drug treatment counselors before removing someone from a sidewalk. They also would have to give warnings before taking onforccmont action. . 
Protesters of a similar side­walk ban In downtown Tempe; Ariz., held a sit-in honoring Martin Luther King Jr. The ban, which took effect Sunday. carries a tine ofup to $500 and. 30 days in jail. · 
"It's not about sitting. It's t1bout one group attacking another," said protester Luis Fernandez, a 29-year-old researcher. 
Cities from New York to San Francisco are tightening restrictions on sleeping and begging in public places, according to a report released this month hv the National Law Cen!Pr 1111 1iu1rn,less1wss and Pov1irty. 
Save up to 75% on Mac & Windows Software! 
Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on all software. FREE delivery on all orders until 1 /29/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 
Advertising 101: Subliminal Messages 
Notice the Double Slice Pizza below? If so. you've got an overly active imagination. 
In other words, you're destined for a great advertising career. While you're still a student, come try our Pizza or Pasta for under S4. Class dismissed. 
Real Italian R 1 ® 
. ea Fast® 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 317 WMcKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 

Congress: back to business 
Associated Press Congress. islativc business on 
The House meets Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday morn• 
WASHINGTON but mainly so it can be around ings, though little more than 
Congress reiurns to the for Clinton's State of the Union speeches are likely because Capitol in force Tuesday with address in the evening. It will there are no bills ready for its loaders cager to begin then recess until Feb. 2, passage.focusing on Social Security, although many committees The Senate Appropriations education and other issues of will remain at work. Committee was planning 
concorn to voters. The Senate will spend almost daily hearings in 
As the S1>nate impeachment Tuesday morning with leaders preparation for its work lat<1r trial of President Clinton con• of each party introducing their this year on spending bills for tinucs, top Hepublicans arc first five bills of new Congress, 2000. GOP leaders want to get intent on showing that they a bifmnial ritual ainrnd at pub-those bills finished as early as 
arc not obsessed with it. As a possible, in hopes of avoiding result, many !louse and a replay of last fall's mam• Sc·natc committees plan full moth $520 billion spending slates of hearings beginning measurr.. which handed
' 1AM COMMITTED TO 
this week -and are trumpct­Clinton several vict.ori11s justing them to ,nako sure thoir MOVING FORWARD WITH before the elections. 
activity is noticed. Other panels planning oarly
THE PEOPLE'S BUSINESS.'
"I am committed to moving hearings include the !louse forward with the people's Ways and Means Committee. business," said Senate Rudget PET!' DOMENIC/ at which Federal Hesnrve Committee Chairman Pete Chairman Alan Greenspan will
SENATE BUDGET 

Domenici, H-N.M., as he testify on economic issues; the 
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN

announced his schedule for 11 House's renamed Armed hearings on taxes, Social Services Commit"tee, which Security and other topics. will hear from the .Joint Chiefs 
In addition, House Speaker licizing their top issues. The of Staff; and the Senate Labor Dennis Hastert moved on GOP's top bills will address and Human Hesourcos Monday to pressure Clinton on Social Security. education, tax Committee, which will consid­
Social Security. He announced cuts, crime and drugs and er efforts to impose new con­he would reserve H.R.1, the defense. trols on health-maintenance 
House's first bill of the new After lunch, senators will organizations. Congress, for the legislation resume their more familiar Amid the early activity, law• on strengthening thr pension mode nf late, hearing tlrn makers are already displaying 
program for the elderly and Clinton impeachment trial. their taste for legislative com­disabled. Topping off what will unavoid­bat over high-profile issues. 
Clinton has called buttress­ably be a peculiar day. those GOP senators said Friday ing the program for the same senators will then troop that they would reintroduce impending retirement of baby across the Capitol after dinner their bill to give patients of boomers, but has provided no to hear the president's HMOs more rights, such as the 
details on how he would do it address. setting up of external revinw and is not expected to reveal The full Senate's legislative boards to handle complaints. any soon. schedule is uncertain after Hccalling how Democrats 
Even so, the 106th Congress' that, mainly because of the killed a similar Hepublican legislative start will be unsure timing of the impeach· measure last year, Senate leisurely. as is traditional !'or ment trial. It is possible that Majority Whip Don Nickles, H­the first weeks of a new the Senate will meet for leg-Okla., pointedly said. "It is our 
hope that the Democrats will join us in a bipartisan effort." 
Minutes lator, Democratic leaders retorted with a news conference of' their own, and likn last year accusnd Republicans of producing a bill that doesn't go far enough. 
"I can absolutely guarantee we'll have an opportunity to protect all peopln involvnd in IIMOs. not just the small frac­tion the Hepublican bill pro­vides," said Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle. D-S.D. 

·--~­

..----------------....--------­
Tuesday, January 19, 1999

page 8 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
¦ THE PHILIPPINES 

Court rules to lift delay 
on execution; child rapist to be put to death 
Associated Press 

MANILA 
The Supreme Court on Tuesday lifted an order delaying the country's tirst execution in 23 years and ordered a lower court to set a date to put a child rapist to death. 
Leo Echegaray, a poor house painter convicted of repeatedly raping his 10-year-old stepdaughter. was about to be put to death Jan. 4 when the court ordered a six-month delay to allow Congress time to review a law that restored capital punishment in 1994. 
Ilowevcr, after a marathon 10-hour session that ended early Tuesday, the House of Hepresentatives approved a resolution rejecting any review of the law. 
Eleven or the 15 Supremc\ Cou1·L justices voted to lift the restraint order on Echegaray's execution, saying it was clear Congress would not carry ou~ a review and consequently could not repeal the death penalty Jaw. Two were opposed and two other newly appointed justices abstained. 
President Joseph Estrada, who has launched a high-profile anti-crime campaign, hailed the decision and urged the lower court to set an execution date as quickly as possible. 
"Good," Estrada remarked, saying the execution should be conducted "immediately so we can get this over with." 
The decision came as a blow to Manila's Archbishop Jaime Cardinal Sin, the country's most influential church official, who has led a campaign against the death penalty. 
"Deep in my heart, I'm against it," Sin said. 
Echegaray is the first among more than 800 death-row 
inmates to be scheduled for execution. More than 450 of those 
on death row were convicted of rape, including 159 who abused 
their own children or other close relatives. 
At least 13 other death row inmates could be executed this 
year, according to a group of human rights lawyers. 
Echegaray's execution has stirred a debate over the death 
penalty and divided many Filipinos. 
Roman Catholic bishops and other civic groups opposing the 
death penalty say there is no proof capital punishment deters 
crime. They also say poor people are more likely to be sen­
tenced to death because they cannot afford good lawyers. 
Advocates say capital punishment will instill fear in potential 
criminals once executions start. 
Between 1924 and 1976, the Philippines executed 84 people. 
In 1987, a new constitution abolished the death penalty but 
gave Congress the option of restoring it for "heinous" crimes. 
Legislators, alarmed by a rise in crime, brought back capital 
punishment in January 1994. 

Ing prOt~sts . , ..... 
resident Suharto trav ed 
im'ii~B~daf to·h1s .wi(E3's,cen.;;
,;:h·id .Ja.va hometown to mark the end of the fasting montlr of Ramadan with · pr~yers at her gr·a.veside. 
A crowd of a!Jo-.it 100 people held a noisy protest just before Suharto and his ~ntourage arrived at .his family's Ka1itan Palacejn Sol(J, a.bout 300 IUiles southeast of Jakarta, · ·· >based 
&°Chanting a.ntJ:sub~.t.t() f P slogans, the d~nionsfrator~ (I,, 0 de:rna;nded ,thti ?fo..r,.xn~t'+ ·· Je4dex•··.apotqgJi~.. lQ/tl.l.e 
·.. IndQncsian p~op)~an,d thi\t. Suha.rto .and: ~it fitr}llt. b~ rfq,;1;9.Jl .triJt.L:i,~···t~~~'¾~t · 
readmg"Dnve Suharto.and his family away from Sol&'' was Upfurled ne<1rby. . Akhar•ta 
Suhartn, who resignFd apoTog·:l last Mav amid violent Indonesla protests·against his 3.2· celebritt(l tb year authoritarian ru1e, 
feasf. ~'he11r-.Iu,..... ·•.....~5,k

has been the target of con• each· other for'.forgi~"'ep.ess, tinued demonstrations. He The Jakarta. Pgst•ntl;\"'S.pa-.has been accused of build­per reported, <·.....·.·. ·... ··• ing huge business empires "Golkar .sip.cer~ly ht'f~rs for his family and friends its apologies , ,\f( {sQr <its 
at the expense of tbe s,tate, wrongd9ing.· a.11d .in\stahs and is currently the subject in the past,'' TEi,rtjurig v:as 
of an official corruption quoted as saying, · · inquiry. 
Suharto, 77, plans to pray Tuesday beside the 

,:}i~:f.;,ili{,., 
"~ , 
"E,: '~._. 
--P"!"~ 

~~ , . : ·.{ . . ~ 
, . !~ 

... ·r~?fl{~:.~ :-::~i.,-~ 
Room 023 LaFortune Student Center 
Your new place to ship all your packages, conveniently located in the center ofcampus. 
Hours M, W, F 3pm-6pm T, Th 11am-6pm Sat llam-2pm 

UPS pick up weekdays at 4pm. 


Come visit us and let us take care 
ofall your shipping! 
631-3942 


We'll Pay You to MEET YOUR NEW PERSONAL BANKER ·
··llliu~~~ 

1stSource is yoursource for Internet banking! ~ -~··~"_L_-~~=~,JI~ 
Now your account information ~ ~-.....:~~~I/
is just a clickawaywith 1st Source #' .--::_--..-:;-: -:::-------.__ 
Direct on the Internet! -~.<_i~~~ ... Access information on: . --~;,, 
• 
balances 

• 
interest rates 


• 
payments and transactions 


You can also: 
• 
transfer funds 

• 
pay bills 

• 
and much more. 



The future offinancial services is here now, and with 1st Source you can 
bank on it! Visit our web site today at www.1stsource.com and check out 
1st Source Bank's full range ofproducts and services. 
Join us for an Internet demonstration at the 1st Source ATM in the 
lower level of the Hesburgh Library on: 
January 19th and 20th any time between 11 :00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. 
-We'll give you a buck Just for stopping by to see for yourself how secure, simple and quick Internet banking is. +-We'll give you three months of 1st Source Direct Internet service FREE. 
.-sou,ce9
I.Bank 
t-~st""~r® 
MEMBER FDIC

www.1stsource.com 
I ' 

..----~--------·-----...------
Tiaesday, January 19, 1999 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
-~ 

Lawyers prep for Senate trial 


Disgruntled patient shoots, kills surgeon 
Associated Press 
AVENTURA, Fla. 

When Dr. Bradley Silverman arrived at work la.st week, police say, a. former patient was waiting to see him. 
Robert Herndon didn't have an appointment. Authorities say he was there to seek revenge for surgery that left hlm with lim.Hed use of his arm; aiide.effoct Silverman had warned could happen. 
Herndon is accused of shoot­ing and killing Silverman as the 41-year-old doctor arriw~d at his Miami-area office on Jan. 11. Witnesses heard angry words, followed by tlrn doctor's cries of "No! No!" 
Police tracked down Hnmdon at a Port Riclrny hos­pital.nearSt,. Petersburg. The Ct\l'J'>~Ilt~r and handyman was 
returned to Miami on Friday and charged with lirst-d<~griie murder. He was placed under a suicide watch in the Miami• Dade County jail. whero hn remained Monday. 
Herndon, 45, suffers from Crohn's disease, a dt1biliiu.ti11g illness destroying his intestines, and he came to Silverman for treatment last year. 
Silverman oporatnd on I Iemdon to remove underarm polyps that other doctors had failed to curfJ. But thn surg(!l'Y didn·t work, restricting move­ment in the arm. llerndon filed a complaint against Silv(mnan with no success. 
Silverman was shot several times at close rang(~. Herndon had allegndly waitod in I.he stairwell and confronted tlw doctor as he entered. 

Associated Prl'SS 
WASIIIN<,TON 

Whiln llousP lawynrs arn mounting an aggrcssi v«: dPl'Pnsn of' l'rPsidenl Clinton only hours bPl·ore he dulivors a StaW of tht\ Union address from tlw vPry charnlwr wiwrn ho was imp1·aclwcl for "high <'rinws and misdenrnunors" a 1110111h ago. 
ln 01wning arguments hcforn tlw SPnaln, Clinton's d1\fonsn tPam was ro(:using 011 conrlicts in t1is ti m 011y ga tlw rnd hy lndq>Pmlnnt C:ounsid Kenneth Stilrr. a shirt in strategy ainwd al un<ll'rr.utting llousP charges of pPrjury and obstruction ol' justit:n, sourr11s say. 
In addition, Clinton's lawy1•rs hav11 1\xpress1\d intPr­nst in having somn Denwcrals from the llouse Judiciary Comrnitt1i11 join the ddensn warn. according to ol'l'icials familiar with thP While llousc discussions. 
Tonight's l'aco-to-fac11 moot­ing lwtweon Clinton and thn COl'-lud Congrnss caps a mnnrnntous day in a month that alroady has had its sharn of history-making events. N1•vnr bdorn has a prnsid1•nl on trial in the SenatP apJH\arnd before his jurors lo d1div,ir a State of the Union 
mnssagn. 
It will be thn second cnnsnc­utivn y<HLr that Clinton, with his wifo llillary looking on, ddivnrs tlw traditional spnech Lo lawrnaknrs consumml by his dl'orts lo cover up marital in fidf' I itif's. 
Al his trial, meanwhilH, Urn switch from not discussing tho facts in llw impeachment casn lo disputing many ol' them co u Id o 1w n th n way f'o r 1l,•p11hlir.a11 dPmands for wit­111•ss,·s lo lll'lp rPsolvP tlrn clis­p1111•s Tiu• Whilf' llousP has bPPll 'iv;hl.i11g that prospPt'l but 
now 11xpncts witnnsses, offi­cials said. 
Senato Democratic Lnader Tom Daschlo on M()nday con­cur rod, saying wilnessns might ho inevitable. In an inltirvi11w with The Associatnd l'rnss. the South Dakota Dmnocrat said wilnesstis could lead to tlrn spectacle or I 00 Stlnators watching former Whitn !louse intern Monica l.nwinsky "point lo whern the pnisidnnt touched her." 
But Sen . .Jon Kyl, H-/\riz., dismissed Daschlo's warning as "all-or-nothing" scare tac­tics that am "just not true." 
llousP (;op prosecutors on Saturday finished a thrnc-day pres1rntation ol' their case in support of' two articles of impHachnrnnt that were approved Dec. 19 on mostly partisan votes. The White llouse will got 24 hours lo pr1H,fint its rebuttal. White llouse Counsel Charles F.C. Huff was lo spend several hours presenting opening defense arguments today before the trial recesses for Clinton's State or the Union addrnss in the House cham­ber. 
Arter tlw White llouse fin­ishns its presentation Friday or Saturday, the Senate will submit questions in writing to both sides, to be read by Chief Justice William Rehnquist as presiding trial officer. 
Onn area of Whitu Ilouse attack is witness testimony in rngard to the alleged obstruc­tion of justice. Ms. Lnwinsky says she got a call from Clinton's secretary, Betty Currie, arranging to pick up gifts from the president a few hours aftnr Ms. Lewinsky told Clinton of' her concern that she'd have lo turn over thc presnnts lo lawyers in thn l'au la Jo1rns sexual harass­nwnt lawsuit against tlrn prns­ident. 
But l\lrs. Currie says she thinks it was Ms. Lewinsky who initiated the gift return and Mrs. Currie has testified that shn has no recollection of ever talking to Clinton about returning the gifts, before or al'ti:r she pichd them up. 
The Clinton legal team cred­its Mrs. Currie's account, while nol.ing that both wit­nesses testified that the prnsi­dent did not ask Ms. Lewinsky Lo surrnnder the gifts. 
Such back-and-forth forms the backdrop for Cl in ton's address tonight, when bitter political t•nemies crowd onto the House 11oor as the presi­dent, his legacy already soiled by impeachment, lays out his agenda for the year. 
GOP leaders have advised their rank and file to give him a courteous, but restrained. reception. Senate Republican aides who asked not to be identified said GOP leaders were quietly spreading the word that senators should adopt the demeanor of Supreme Court .justices who will attend and not express themselves during the address. 
Absent will be House Judiciary Committee Chairman Henry llyde, who said he prefers to avoid crowds. 
/\ survey released Monday by the Pew Research Center !'or the People & the Press showed that a steady two­thirds of Americans want it the trial to end with Clinton still in office, and that less than one-third are paying close attention to the historic proceedings. 
Sixty-nine percent said the trial had not changed their 
opi II ions about wlrntlrnr Urn prusident should be removncl from o!Tice or resign. 
•• I . 
I I I 
• ' •
¦ I 
Ill 


PICK UP APPLICATIONS OUTSIDE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE DEADLINE JANUARY 22 DEADLINE FOR INTfflVIEWS JANUARY 29 
Join the Notre Dame Junior Achievement! 
Sign Up to Teach Children in . South Bend Elementary Schools 
You can decide When and Where You Want to Volunteer-Times are Flexible 
Brief Organizational Meeting 
7:30 pm *Tuesday,January 19th Sorin Room in LaFortune 
Call Kim Smith @ 4-2978 with questions or if vou are unable to attend the mmetinQ. 

'<..Y 

VIEWPOINT 

page 10---------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Nm11E DAMEOHJCE: P.O. lloxQ, None Dame, IN 46556 (2191631-7471 SAINT MARY's OHJCF: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46'i56 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
tDITOR·IN·CHIH 
~iea1her Cock~ MANAGING Eurroa Bu,1,-ESs MANAGl'.R Brian Rclnchakr Kyk C.trlin 
A.ss!STANT MANAGING El)ITOR l 1e.irher M.i.cKcuzlc 
U.S.S£NATE 
PRI~C.lPAL ,

N~w~ ElllTOR ....................Michelle Krupa All\lERTISlNG MANAGl'll........................ llryan Lutr V!F.Wl'0INT ElllT0R ..................Eduardo Llull An Of.'ilGN MAl<AGER .......................Brett Huelat SrORTS ErnTOR .....................Karhlceo Lope, SYSTEMS MANAGU ..................... Michael Brouillet ScFNF ElllTORS... .. ....................Sarah Dylag CoNTROU.F.R .....................................Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klirsch Wfti !\llMINISTRATOP ..........., ...!\llison Krilla S.rNr MARV'S ED/TOR ... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPJJJCS EDITOR ..............................Pere Cilella l'HOTO EDITOR ....................Kevin Dalum 
The (!b.H:rw_·r i, rhc mJependt'nl nC\-v:-;p;ipn pllbli..hcJ hy rlw s,rudents of rhc Uniwrsi1y of Norn: Dame du l.ac am{ ~aim ,\-1ary'!> C(1Ueg,c, 1t Joe~ not necu;S;1rily rdlen th~ 11olicic~ ofthe admi111sttation ofcithC"r itislltation. Thi: t1ews is reported as ,iccur:udy .m,! ohjc-cri,•dy :JS pos~ible. U1hignc:J cdit(.Hiah rq'lr,c.-;cnt the cipinitWi cfth..: majoriry of the F.Jltor-in-Chicf. MJ1uging Editor, A,;sisranr Man:1ginp; Edirnr :md dt!p:rnment cdirnrs. Cnmmenrnries, letters and columns present the views of th(.' ~mhori;-, and nor nL'CC?-'-!lrily rhose ofTht' Ohscrvcr. ViC\'.'J)Oinr sp::ice is :.wailable rn a!! n,emht'"rs ofrh1.· Notre D:1.md.S;1mt Ma~/s community :rnd to .ill rc:tde!'rs. The free ~tJrcs.don ofvarying opinions rhrnu1;h lt"tcot•rs i~ enrnur::iged. 
Conra.cring lJk.QI;,~ EJimr•in-Chicf 631-4:,42 Businc;, Office G31·53l3 \1Jnaging, EJiror/As,istJ•H ME G31-4541 Adverri,ini, 631 •6900/8840 Ncw)Pl,oto 631-5323 Sysmm 631-8839 Sport, 631-4543 F,1x G31-G927 Scene/Sum Ma,y\ 631-4540 Viewpoint E·Mail Viewpoint. l@nd.edu D,iy Editor/Viowp,,int 631 -5.~0:I Ad f'.Mail obs~rver@datw!n.c::c.nd.cd11 Office Manager/Generol I nforn,ation 631-7471 News E-Mail abserver.ob.snew-c;. J@11d.edu 

The Norm of Greatness J·t Lies in Us ·All 
Certainly, when assessing all of Imbued with the support of many oth­ment of Native American and Asian directly address injustice. Nonviolence the things that Dr. Martin Luther ers, Dr. King committed himself to serv­communities, respectively, abuse of requires moral and physical courage. King, Jr. achieved in his life, we ing the most oppressed and neglected of women and the disenfranchisement of Dr. King possessed both and ultimately are urged to place him and others like society and empowered them to fight. the poor, as well as the mental and paid the price~with his life. him on a pedestal. In casting his deeds I point this out to illustrate that we physically challenged unless we use this What Dr. King did was normal, in the all are often reluctant at first to follow tension as a catalyst for change. sense that inside everyone of us exists the path of truth and justice. We would The most important legacy of Dr. the potential to fight for justice and rather not suffer the rejection and Martin Luther King, Jr.'s dream is that truth. His greatness lies not so much in scorn that it entails. It takes courage to his notion of interconnectedness is still what he did, but in the fact that he did
Cheryl 

go against the status quo when we relevant. Dr. King begged it! We all can do become sub-us to see that all what he did, ject to perse-life is in terrelat­everyday of our 
cution, hatred ed, saying lives -but we
lgiri 

'INJUSTICE ANYWHERE IS 
and imprison­'IN FlJLLY EMBRACING THE "Injustice any­often choose not 
A THREAT TO JUSTICE
ment. Today, where is a threat to. We can inl1u­
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE OF many people to justice every-EVERYWHERE. WE ARE ence local, state 
LOVE, DR. KING COMMITTED where. We are
above those of ordinary people, we feel that the and national poli­
CAUGHT IN AN INESCAPABLE
deify Dr. King, and in the process Civil Rights HIMSELF TO A NONVIOLENT caught in an cy. We can make excuse ourselves from pursuing the Movement is inescapable net­NETWORK OF MUTUALITY, a difference. Dr. 
over. Why else STRUGGLE FOR JUSTICE,
same course of action that he pursued. work of mutuali­King's work
TIED IN A SINGLE GARMENT 
We become complacent and shirk the would we be THEREBY ESTABLISHING THE ty, tied in a single embodies great duty and responsibility of fighting willing to dis­garment of des­OF DESTINY. WHAT AFFECTS human-rights
NORM FOR CHRISTIAN 
against injustice to those we deem more mantle affir­tiny. What affects ONE DIRECTLY, AFFECTS ALL ideals pursued by qualified. In fully embracing the mative action, RESPONSE TO POLITICAL, one directly, a man with nor­
INDIRECTLY.'
Christian doctrine of love, Dr. King welfare and SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC affects all indi-mal strengths and committed himself to a nonviolent other such rectly." How weaknesses. struggle for justice, thereby establishing programs that INEQUALITIES.' many of us isolate -DR. MARTIN LUTHER When we begin to the norm for Christian response to address social ourselves from acknowledge the political, social and economic inequali­inequalities? society's prob-KING, JR. role and responsi­ties. In a complete misunderstanding to lems through our igno­bility we each 
Determined to "work and fight until Rodney King's words, "Can't we all just rance, wealth or lack of have to stand up justice runs down like water and right­get along?," some attempt to evoke our concern? How many of us subscribe to for justice, pursue truth and act on our eousness like a mighty stream," Dr. silence towards the.pursuit ofjustice theories that some group of "others" faith and convictions, we can begin to King dared to dream a dream through and the truth. I reject this notion of are some how taking what is "rightful­follow the norm set by Dr. Martin nonviolence. He believed that America "getting along" and the sort of tolerance ly" ours, either through welfare, educa­Luther King, Jr. Therein lies our great-could achieve justice. He had the it required so long as it breaths apathy tion or job opportunities? How many ol' ness. courage to believe that "people every­and complacency. Tension is good. Dr. us continue to hate those who are dif­
where should have food for their bod­King believed that a constructive, non­ferent from us and pass such hatred on Cheryl lgiri is a senior government ies, education and culture for their violent tension was necessary for to our children, siblings and friends? and international relations major. She minds, and dignity, equality and free­growth. There is no policy panacea for Dr. Martin Luther King. Jr.'s philoso­is studying this semester in Rome. Iler dom f'ur their spirit." a polyglot society such as ours. Along phy is simple. Tho commitment iL column is the second in a series dedi­
We must remember that King, much with legal change, there must be indi­requires. however, is the challenge. He cated to the memory of /Jr. Martin like the biblical leaders that served as vidual change, both stirred by construc­gave us a model for how to address the Luther King, Jr. his role models, was a reluctant leader. tive tension. We will continue to be crucial problems that we still face today The views expressed in this column He did not volunteer for the crusade to haunted by the demons of a history of in American society hy using nonviolent are those ofthe author and not neces­end discrimination, he ,..·as chosen. African slavery, genocide and intern-tactics to overcome those problems and sarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ DOONESBURY 
IAIHY1/JJHAT 5ff'JT-CHec!<­
ARJ;,'IOU ING YOUR. HARIJ fiVINGr PRIVE: fORE;/1/­I tJliNCE.,., 
~ 

~AUOV£1<'1J,{/9C4M­RJ!iHAV58/i&N /X¥(/NI/JAl?lr.k3IU!C!i''/?£§eARCHA!55!§1AAf:1;' FROM /WONUNff PAPP<MIU./ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 


A MIU? NHAT1(!88 AWP'£~rI'/?i,/J.(fi 
70AVO/t7ITt/K£ 
7H&PLAGl£/ 
/ 
N/C.i7l<Y,
G/R, 
I 
,fhate to advocate drugs, 
alcohol, violence or insanity to anyone, but they've always worked for me.' 
-Hunter S. Thompson 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, January 19, 1999-------------------­

¦ NG7nf Or,MfiSAtNT MARY'S RIGHT TO LIFE 
Women's Resource Center Must Adhere to True Tenets of Feminism and Common Sense 
"Support lht' Wit<:!" 
ln its1df. Lhat lwadline plaswrod on tlv~ front pagn of one ol' last scmostN's l'ditions of Common Snnsn garncrnd my wwquivoral support. Becaus1) I rocog-
Samantha Snyder 

nizn tho importani.:c of nurturing-a cnn­tcr on rumpus dfwotPd to providing stmhmls witb accuralo and hnlpl'ul info1•rna.tio11 about women ·s isstms, I would 11ot. twsit.att' lo tmul my rmthusi­astir assPnt. Lo thnse words. Tim ensu­ing artidn, hmwv,ff, demo11stratnd that what I was lwing called to support ­that is, tlw f'rP!'Clom to rnfor women f'or ahortio11s -rnntracli1·.t1id not only my icl1\as of vvhat a Women's Hesourco C:1mLPr should olfor, but t!w ideas of' the foundc>rs of thn fominist movmnent, the Catlw!ir Church and anyonn bolonging to tho rm,dPrship of tho afornmnn­limwd strnlm1t publication who actually daims to posS(!SS any shrPd of ... well, i-ommon Si'JJSf'. 
Unf'ortunatnly. we oftnn Pqtiatn fomi­nism with abortion rights while ncgtrn:ii11g to understand that thn fou11dPrs or tlw forninist mov1iment strongly opposPCi abortion, consiclering it d1•m1•aning 110! only to unborn chil­drt!ll but to women. as well. Susan B. Anthony rdi•rrt!d ln abortion as "child­murdcr," Elizubnth Cudy Stanton clas­si!il'd it as infanticide, and Matilda {;agn call!'CI it a "rrinrn." In a lnttnr llmt appParml in Julia Ward Ilowp's journal, Susan 
B. Anthony wrotl>, "Whim wo considiir that womnn arn treatPd as propPrly, it is dPgrading to womnn that w1i should tn•at our <·hiltlrtm as proper­ty to bl! disposed ol' as w<• wish." Tho lkvolulion, Anthony and Stanton's feminist miwspapnr. ass1)rtcd, "When a woman dnstroys the lifo of her unborn child. it is a sign that, by nduca!ion or circumstances, she has lwm1 grnatly wronged." When wn rnnsutt the founders of the l'eminisl mowmnnt. \\'e sen that authentic femi­nism shrinks from complicity with abortion 011 uemanu. In f"aL:l, autlwntk lhrninism demands that abortion bn vinwnu as degrading to bllth women and children. The corrl'lation between feminism and the pro-life stance is one Pspoused by pro-lil'e groups across I.he country, including llrn prominent orga­nizaliun Fmninist.s fi1r Lifo (not to men­tion our own campus Hight to I.ifc group). 
Just as WP 111-ronenusly equate fomi­nism with abortion rights, we also erro­neously tnnd to vinw tlrn Catholic Churd1 as scornful ol'womnn's rights. We fail lo understand that what we 1wrccivn as thn Church's emphatic "no" to tho promotion of abortion is actually an nmphatic "y11s" to upholding the dig­nity of' women. In his m1cydical on tiff• isstws, Ev1111g!!lium Viiae /The Gospel of Lifo). Pope John Paul II declarns, ";\ mother wolcornes and carri(ls in horse!!' anoilwr human I.ming, ern1bling it to grow inside her, giving it room, rospecLing it in its otherness. Women first le11rn and then tMch othnrs that human relations arc authentic if they are open to accepting Urn other person: a porson who is rncognized and loved b1icauso or the dignity which comes from being a person and not f'rom other considerations such as usefulness, strnngth, intelligence, bmwty or hoalth." 
Personallv. I am coml'orte<l bv the fact that. u,;likn Amerkan society. the Catholic Church values me first and foremost because l have inherent digni­ty and not because I possess certain (!slimable qualities. And I understaud that Urn recognition of my own dignity as a human person should dissuade me (rom promoting any practice that robs 
'WHEN WE CONSIDER THAT WOMEN ARE 
TREATED AS PROPERTY, IT IS 
DEGRADING TO WOMEN 
THAT WE SHOULD TREAT 

OUR CHILDREN AS PROPERTY 
TO BE DISPOSED OF AS WE 
WISH.' 

-SUSAN 8. ANTHONY 
another. including an unborn child, of that dignity. With this statement, Pope John Paul II completes the idea of Susan 13. Anthony who argued that trnating unborn children as property 

was degrading to women's efforts to combat their own status as property. No doubt Anthony would have agreed with the Pope that treating unborn chil­dnm as unique individuals deserving of respect only furthers women's efforts to be viewed in the same way. 
Just in case you don't find Susan B. Anthony an authoritative voice. or authentic t'cminism or the Catholic Clrnrch an eloquent defender of women, I can at least appeal to the common sense in all of us. Kate Michelman, leader of' the National Abortion Rights Action League, was once quolod in the Philadelphia Inquirer as saying that abortion was a "bad lhing." Ir one of the most ardent spokeswomen for abortion rights aeci­dcntally admitted that what she has dedicated herself' to defending is a "bad thing." shouldn't we be a little con­ccnwd that referring students for abor­tions may in fact bo actively loading them towards participation in a "bud thing'?" Even unflinchingly pro-abortion 
.. 

President Clinton has repeatedly articu­lated his hopes tu make abortion "rare." If abortion is distasteful enough to be made rare, shouldn't we wonder why it ought to exist at all'? Shouldn't we be concerned by our own willing­ness to distribute information that pur­posefully perpetuates its existence'! 
When Olivia Gans. the director of American Vi<.:tims of Abortion, visited NiJtro Dame last semester, she raised awareness about the existence of post­abortion syndrome. Though a letter to the editor criticized the supposed inac­curacy of one of Ms. Gans' statistics, such a complaint cannot override the compelling evidence offez-ed by the influx of' numerous post-abortive women like Ms. Gans into the pro-life movement. The reality of post-abortion syndrome for many women as well as the recent findings on the link between abortion and increased risk of breast cancer should dissuade us from pro­moting a practice that may have disas­trous etfocts on women's health in the future. 
If I were a mother (read WRC) who saw her child (read women) reaching to touch a hot stove (read abortion), would I calmly allow the child to burn her hand because I recognized that it was her choice to do so'? Even more, would I offer her instructions about exactly how to touch that stove without informing her of the possibility of injm:y and without informing her that refrain­ing from touching the stove would be a safer option'? Anyone with common sense would have to answer "no." 
Even though we can clearly see that the promotion of abortion is antithetical to the pursuance of women's rights, this does not mean that a center pro­viding resources to women on campus 
'should refrain from 
offering any informa­tion about abortion at all. Crisis pregnancy centers such as the Women's Care Center in South Bend recog­nize the importance of offering women factual information about the abortion procedure and its risks. However, these centers also offer women alternatives to abortion by providing prenatal care, materni­ty clothes, baby sup­plies, assistance from community agencies, adoption services and even housing. These 
centers provide many more resources to help women make informed deci­sions about their pregnancies than a center that merely tells women how much abortions cost and where to get them. 
Let's uphold tlrn ideal ofwhat a Women's Resource Center should be and offer women on campus resources that arc true to the tenets of authentic feminism, that uphold the dignity of women and that appeal to common s~nse. Women deserve no less. 
Samantha Snyder is a senior living in Howard Hall and the Co-President of the Notre Dame/Sainr, Mary's Right to Life. ND/SMC Hight to Life is one ofthe largest student qroups on campus. This week, the club will be taking 250 stu­dents to the March for Life in Washington, /J.C. Uieir column will run every other Tuesday. 
The l!iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ THE PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE 
An Open Letter to 
Father Malloy 
In the past months it has bocomn apparent to me that you and I hold some serious differ­ences in opinion about the proposod revision of' the non-discrimination clause. I think it should 
Madolyn 
Orr 

be revised to include thP lnrm "sexual orienta­tion." Apparently you don't agrne with me. 
In forming your opinion on this topic, I havn no doubt that you have consulted with many intelligent clm·gy and lay men and women, both on and off campus, who are experts in civil rights history, tlrnolog-y, law and other relevant fields. As a student, I do not have the opportu­nity to consult with these sam(l people. I do not have the extensive resources of time, money and influence that am at your disposal. 
The relevant resources to me are these: the catechism, logic and my own conscience. My conscience tells me that it is unjust to discrimi­nate on the basis of sexual orinntation. Logic tells me it is not in my best interost to withhold righL<; or opportunities on virtually any basis (I could bo next). Humor tells mo that the Catholic Church does not look favorably upon homosex­uality. The catechism tolls mo this: "The num­ber of men and women who have deep-seated homosexual tendencies is not negligible. Thny do not choose their homosnxual condition; for most of them it is a trial. They musl bP ac:c11pt­ed with respect. compassion and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should bn avoided" (Catechism of tlw Catholic Church, Part 3, Section 2, Article 6­2358). These rnsources tell me that it is unjust not to revise the non-discrimination clause to include sexual orientation. 
Ilowever, as a Notre name stud1mt, I also have a responsibility to consider what impact the proposed addition to the non-discrimina­tion clause might have on the Notre Dame community. The inclusion of thn two words "sexual orientation" might increasn the validity of civil rights on this campus. The inclusion might decrease homophobia. The inclusion might provide a tangible, enforccabb1 sign of' acceptance to non-heterosexual students, fac­ulty, staff and administrators. The inclusion might prove that Notre Dame's reputation for social justice is not undeserved. The inclusion might cost the school money in legal fees. In the spirit of this inclusion, I truly hope that wn have our priorities straight. 
Fr. Malloy, your earlier rejection of' the revised non-discrimination clause in favor of the non-binding Spirit of Inclusion, as well as your rumored opposition to the rnvision in thn Academic Council lead me to believe that w1~ hold vastly differing opinions on this subject. For lack of a better nxplanation, I must assunw that the reason for our differences is that you know something I don't. Something I can't find in my conscirmce, in logic or in the catechism. Given all the student and faculty supporl for the sexual-orientation clause, it seems that a lot of other people also don't know what you know. 
So, on the behalf of' evm·yono who doesn't know what you know, I rnspectfully invitn you to illuminate your reasons for opposing the addition to the non-discrimination clause in some public, student-accessibln venufl. If you are looking for someone to nrganizn such an event, I would be moro lhan happy to oblige. Thank you very much for your consideration. 
Madalyn Orr is a concerned Sophomore and a member of the PSA. The PSA ·s column runs every Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the PSA or The Observer. 


C 
s 
page 12---------------------OBSERVER ------------~ Tuesday,January 19,1999 

BO 
, 

MUSIC: 
1. 
Which '80s song features nothing but five cheerleaders? (Name the artist too) 

2. 
What is the name of the lead singer for the Smiths? 

3. 
What style of dancing was popularized with rap music? 

4. 
What does LL Cool J. 's name stand for? 

5. 
Name the female comedy star who had a pop hit in the early eighties? Hint: She once had a show on Fox. 


NAME THE ARTIST AND THE SONG FOR EACH OF THE FOLLOWING , 
6. 
"I just wanna have some kicks, I just wanna get some chicks." 

7. 
"Because your kiss, your kiss I can't resist." 

8. 
"Ain't no plans with a man, this is the '80s and Loe is down with the ladies." 

9. 
"My life was fine, 'til she blew my mind." 

10. 
"The politics of oooh, feeling good." 

11. 
"The joker is the only fool. who '11 do anything for you." 

12. 
"Building castles in the sky." 

13. 
"Relax. You're quite safe here." 


TELEVISION 
14. 
Naip.e the '80s cartoon that featured characters who wore messages on their clothes to expre 

15. 
What was the name of Norm's wife on Cheers? 

16. 
What was the name of the show that featured Sniglets? 

17. 
What late-night show replaced Tom Snyder's show? 

18. 
What Canadian sketch comedy show helped launch John Candy's career? 

19. 
What was Gary Gnu's catch phrase? 

20. 
Name the TV show that featured an average housewife teamed up with a secret agent. 

21. 
What show featured Nell Carter as a larger-than-life housekeeper? 


MOVIES: 
22. 
What movie featured Reese's Pieces as a crucial part of the story -only because the director couldn't obtain the rights to use M&Ms? 

23. 
What did the person chained to wall in "Goonies" want? 

24. 
What made the crew sick in the movie "Airplane"? (Be specific!) 

25. 
What does Beetlejuice eat when he reaches out of his grave in the scale model of the town? 

26. 
What fell into the pool in "Caddyshack" which caused a major exodus? 

27. 
What caused the creatures in the movie "Gremlin" to become evil? 

28. 
How did the bum convince the family dog to start eating again in ''.Down and Out in Beverly Hills"? 

29. 
\Nhat caused the computer in "Electric Dreams" to become alive? 

30. 
What was the gift from the gods in the movie "The Gods Must Be Crazy"? 

31. 
What was the challenging method of catching a fly in "Karate Kid"? 




C s 
Tuesday,January 19, 1999 page 13

Flashback 
m, 4ecades ofthe past are ber.·nning to lose their place in history. 
r ch1,!dhood decade (the '80s . Do you know where your bleached 
t-shirls are? MOVIE QUOTES: 
NAME THE MOVIES THAT THE FOLLOWING LINES CAME FROM. 
32."There can be only one." 3:~. "Does Barry Manilow know you raid his wardrobe?" 
34. 
"Nobody puts Baby in the corn~r." 

35. 
"Two dollars!" 

36. 
"You're eating maggots, Michael.". 

37. 
"Have you ever danced with the devil in the pale moonlight?" 

38. 
"I don't like my friends. I don't like your'friends, either." 

39. 
"K-mart. Definitely. Definitely K-mart." 

40. 
"I see your schwartz is as big as mine." 


FADS & FASHION: 
41. 
Name the toy that consisted or colored pencils and plastic which you would put in the oven to create? 

42. 
llow many gloves did Michael Jackson wear? 

43. 
What type of men's jacket featured its name on the outer breast pocket and epaufets on the shoulders? . 

44. 
What type of shoes did Run-D.M.C. sing about, and most rappers in the early '80s like? · · 

45. 
What type of shoes were favored by skateboarders? (Hint, it's 4 letters long.) 

46. 
What toy was in short supply for the 1983 Christmas season? 


1 
• I
4
7. What mistake did Coca-Cola make in 1985? 

48. 
\Nhat was the name of the party dog that that was Budweiser's mascot in the late '80s? . 

49. 
What snack food was portrayed in claymation dancing to "Heard it Through the Grapevine"? 


WORLD EVENTS: 
50. 
Who was Margaret Thatcher? 

51. 
Who ran unsuccessfully against Reagan in 1984? 

52. 
In what year did "The Wall" fall? 

53. 
Live Aid was to benefit which starving country? 


ANSWERS: 
l. "Mickey" by Toni Basil 2. Morrisey 3. Break Dancing 4. Ladies Love CoolJame~ 5. Tracey Ullman, "They Don't Know" 6."Rock 'n' Roll High School," The Ramones 7."Kiss On l\1y List," Hall and Oates 8.11Funky Cold Medina," Tone Loe 9."Other Woman," Ray Parker, Jr, 10."Policics of Dancing," Re-Flex, 11. "Queen of Hearts,'' Juice, Newton; 12."Two of Us," Grovc:;r Washington with Bill Withers 13."Paranomia," Art of Noise w/ Max Headroom·l4. Shirt Tales 15.Vera 16. Nor Necessarily The News 17. Late Night w/ David Letterman 18. SC-TV 19.·No Gnus is Good Gnus 20. Scarecrow and Mrs. King 21. Gimme a Break 22:E.T. 23. A Baby Ruth candy bar 24. The fish 25. A Fly 26. A Baby Ruth candy bar 27. Eating after midnight 28. He ate the dog's food 29. Champagne was accidentally spilled on .it 30. A Coke bottle 31. Using chopsticks 32. "Highlander'' 33. "The Breakfast Club" 34. "Dirty Dancing" 35. "Better Off Dead" 36. "Lost Boys" 37. "Batman" 38. "Heathers" 39. "Rain Man" 
40. "Spaceballs" 41. Shrinky Oinks 42. One 43. Members Only 44. adidas 45. Vans 46. Cabbage Patch Kid 47. New Coke 
48. Spuds McKenzie 49. Raisins 50. Prime Minister of Great Britain 51. Walter Mondale 52.1989 53. Ethiopia. 
For more '808 trivia, check out worceatermass.com 
..... 
21 z a w a au u _su a 2 use 
page 14 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, January 19, 1999 
+Campus Ministry This Week + 







OFFICE OF 

CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 
631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 Web Page: http://www.nd.edu/-ministry 
Every Wednesday Night, 10:00-10:30 pm, Walsh Hall 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
A relaxed and informal night prayer led by students of various Christian faith traditions, with a candlelight atmosphere and focus on the word, prayer and music. Music led by the Celebration Choir. All are welcome! 
Friday-Saturday, January 22-23, St. Joe Hall 
Freshman Retreat #20 
Friday-Saturday, January 22-23, Lindenwood 
Learning to Talk About Race Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, January 22-24, Fatima 
NDE Retreat #54 
Sunday, January 24, 4:00 p.m., Farley Hall 
Closing Mass for Pop Farley Week 
Music by the ND Handbell Choir 
Monday-Friday, January 25-29, 103 Hesburgh Library 
NDE #55 (February 26-28) Sign-up 
Continuing this the week 
' 

103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall, or see your rector 
Freshman Retreat #21 (February 12-13) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Lewis, McG linn, Pangborn, Siegfried, Sorin, and Zahm 
Celebration Choir Rehearsal 
Beginning Wednesday, January 20, 8:30-9:45 pm, 102 Earth Sciences Building The Celebration Choir provides music for Interfaith Christian Night Prayer on Wednesday nights (with rehearsal prior to the service), sings for liturgies around campus, and is called to bring its song of praise and prayer into the South Bend community. Students, vocalists or instrumentalists interested in joining the Celebration Choir, should contact Karen Kirner at 631-9326. 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00 pm, St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Fridays, 12:00 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
..,. 
page 15 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, January 19, 1999 
¦ NBA 
• 

Trade rumors fly as NBA lockout nears end 

ing lo resolve s1wcral dilforenccs that have popp1\d up, and a NEW YOBK Ttwsday night sntt!limcnt 
Tlw Nil,\ lockout will la:.;t al a ppearnd lo be the b(ist-case l1•ast anotlwr dav longer. nwan­SC('llario. i111-1 Lill' up1·011;ing trades of "We'II know f'or sure tomor­Srottil· PippPll and l.atrnll row (Tuesdav) wlrnt.her wn'll bn Sprmwll -along with all otlwr starting \Vndnesday or lnagu" husirwss -will lw on Thursday," lnagun spoknsman hold until W1•<l11csday al llw nar­Chris llriP11za said. li1·st. The biggest disagreement 
Tlw lal'k ol' a writlt>ll ai-1n•n-hntwnen ll\() sicks concnrns the 111P11t didn't kP<'P wams f'rom IIPW avnrago salary oxcnpl.io11, pullin~ off dPals. which allows lPams already ovP.r 
Tiu• Chirngo Ht1ll'i agrcnrl lo a llrn salary cap to sign an extra c.ig-11-and-trad .' dPal S('IHling fret• agcnl. Tlw union wants the l'ippt>ll to tlw Il11usto11 Hocknts 1ixcniJtion Lo bn usnd for six-ynar for l!ny llogprs and a s,i1·01ul­nmtracts; Llw ltiag1111 wants it rou11d dral't pick, and llw New liruit('(I to thn-o-ynar dnals. York Knil'ks \\'PrP tlw IPading Tlw Bulls will .sign Pippen to a rand idatP to al'(! uin• LatrP II d!\itl worth $(,7.2 million for live Spn•w.-11 from (iold<•11 State, yoars heforn trading him. and 1111111Pr11us h•a!-{ll(' sot1rcns told get f'orward Hoy Hog<)rs and a Till' AssoriatPd l'rnss. sncond-round draft pick in 
Also. top l'n•P agPnt Antonio rel 1ir11. said lmtgue sourr1is who Mrlly1·ss na1-rowNI his chokes spokt\ on condipon of anonymi­to D!'llVPr aml l'hmn1ix. ty. 
A numhPr of 111lwr dPals wnre Although tlw salarit!s for lwing clisrnss1id, including; l'ippnn and Hogcrs do noL rv1inrwsota. Toronto and match. the clnal is allowablA 
ll1·11vnr reaching ngrenmm1t on under NBA rules because The retirement of Michael Jordan will bring about the dismantling of the Bulls. Scottie Pippen, Steve Kerr and Dennis Rodman are expected to sign with Chicago and then be traded. 
a th n•t•-way lrade sn nd iII g I louslon will have enough salary Chau11cPy Billups to tlm I\Juggnts, cap room to tit in Pippen's con­llaknem Olajuwon, and allowing that a complicated four-team among his narlil'r choices. l>1•a11 (;arrnlt and Bobby tract I!is salary for this ~easo11 Barkley to koep his Larry Bird trade involving Golden State. "1 louston and Chicago arc out 
Jackson to Llw Timb11rwnlvcs will b1\ $10.6 million. 
rights for another year. Miami, Cleveland and Boston of the picture," agc-nt .James and Michna! Williams and two PippP.n, a six-time champion The Kn"icks emerged as the also was discussed. Bryant said. 'Tony has analywdN11. I pkks to tlw Haptors. with the Bulls, talked to the leading contender in the In that scenario, Sprewell the situation carefully, and he's 
Tlw Los i\ngidns LaklffS send­Hocknts about signing with them Sprewell sweepstakes after would have gone to the Heat most at home with those two 
ing forward Tony Battie lo the free was
as a agent. It not Golden State Warriors general along with Bimbo .Coles and options; Pheonix is going to stayBoston Celtics !'or ccnll!r Travis immediately clear why he 
manager Garry St. Jean told all Clarence Weatherspoon. with a winner, and Denver is going to Knight. agreed to a sign-and-trade deal, the interested teams to make Golden State getting Brent be a winrn~r." 
Tlw Bulls signing and trading 
but other tnams also were dis­their best offers by 4 p.m. EST Barry, Dan Majerle and Bobby If McDyess stays in Phoenix, SL(w11 Kerr to the San Antonio cussing similar deals involving Monday. Sura. Boston would have the Nuggets are expected to Spurs. Pipp1m with Bulls general man­Sprewell, a three-time All­received Jamal Mashburn and make a final push for J\11 of l110sP d!!als cannot be agm· J1irry Krause. Star, drew the longest non drug­Vitaly Potapenko, and Cleveland Timberwolves frne agent for­
finaliz1'd until lawynrs reprn­The acquisition of Pippen 
related suspension in league his­would have received Paul Pierce ward Tom Gugliotta. If he sPnling thn lcagun and the union should clear the way for Charles tory last season for choking his and Andrew Declercq. chooses to return to Denver,
linish putting tlm lockout settle­Barkley lo re-sign with Houston McDyess is expected to decide
coach, P.J. Carlesimo. where he played in the 1995-96 
nwnl into writing. for the $1 r11illion minimum, giv­The Knicks, Ileat and Pacers Tuesday between re-signing and 1996-97 seasons. it is J\ttorrwys for both sides worn 
ing the Hockets a formidable had been known to be the lead­with Phoenix or going to Denver. unclear what the Suns' fallback huddlt•d away Monday night try-front line of Barkley, Pippen and . ing bidders, and the AP learned The Rockets and Bulls were plan will be. 
¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 
.JAZZ DANCE -Come to the Rolfs MODERN DANCE -This class will be Pointe is only $5. Dame Golf Course! Please register in Sports HPcrnation Center Activity Hoom tailored for a range of abilities. SHORIN~RYU KARATE -Students advance at HecSports. Cost is only $5. 2 tu gut more information, Classes will Semester long course that will meet are instructed according to traditional SCUBA -This certification class rnnet Saturd11ys from 12:30-2 p.m. and Saturday 11 a.m.-12:30 p.m. and Okinawan techniques. This semester­begins Sunday, Jan. 24 and continul's Tum;days from 7:45-9 p.m. Cost is $35. Tuesday 6:30-7:45 p.m. Cost for the long course meets in Rockne 219 on for seven Sundays from 3:30-7:30 p.m. For udditional information, please con­cluss is $35. For more information, Tuesdays and Thursdays 6-7:30 p.m. Classes include classroom and pool .ses­tact HncSports at 1-6100. plettse contact RecSports at l-6100. starting on Jan. 28. There will be a sions. 
SWING DANCE -All levels are wel­BEGINNER BALLET-No experience demonstration on Tuesday. Jan. 26 in DOWN HILL SKI THIP -llecSports comt• for this SPmestPr long course tha.t necessary !'or this introduction to ballet. Rockne 219 at 6:30 p.m, Cost is $18 for will be sponsoring a Down! Iii! Ski Trip meets on W11dnosdays f'rom 6:30-8 p.m. Class meets Sunday 1-2:30 p.m. and the semester. You must register at · to Swiss Valltiy on Friday. Jan. 22. Bus in HSBC Activity noom 2. To find out Thursday 6:30-7:45 p.m. in RSRC RecSports. For more information, leaves the Library Circle at 5 p.rn. Bus more. [}lease attend the information Activity Hoom 2. Cost for the class is please contact RecSports at 1-6100. will leave Swiss Valley at 10 p.m. You nurnling buing held at 6:30 p.rn. on $35. CROSS-COUNTRY SKICLINICS -must register and pay at HecSports by Wednesday in the RSRC. Cost for the ADVANCED BALLET -This semes­Put aU this snow to good use! Pick one Jan. 20. Cost is $28 for lift ticket, duss is $20 and space is limited to the ter long course meets on Sunday 2:30-4 or more of the following clinics to equipment rental and transport. Cost is first 25 fomules and 25 males that reg­p.m. and Thursday 7:45 -9 p.m. Cost attend.Jan. 23 at 4 p.m., Feb. 6 at 10 $19 for lift ticket and transport only. ister. If you have any questions, please for tho class is $35, Pointe will be a;m., or Feb.13 at 2 p.m. Come spend Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more contact HecSports at 1-6100. offered on Sundays 4-4:45 p.m. Cost for a Saturday on the snow covered Notre information. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.in. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Notre Dame ofltce, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, induding all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit all class;fieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SPRING BREAK 991 NICE HOMES FOR NEXT Computer 486 33MHz Eau, Helleau!! NOTICES Cancun• Nassau• Jamaica SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND $350 080 x3533 TICKETS Travel Free and make lots of 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cash!Top reps are offered on-site NEED 4 TICKETS TO Jason, where are your boots? Crurse!5Nrghts $279!Includes stall )Obs.All-Inclusive Deals, 36EDROOM HOME IN ROSE-For sale: Dig1tech RP-20 ND/MICH, HOCKEY GAME Your cigars? Did you leave them Meals & Free Part1esIAwesome Special Discounts up to $100 per LAND AVAILABLE NOW 2773097 guitar floor pre-amp/effects PLEASE CALL 4-3441 behind when you escaped from the 
Beaches.Nrghtlife!Departs From person.Lowest price Guaranteed. processor. Battleship K.? 
FlondalCancun & Jamaica $399 Call now for details' www.classtrav-HOUSE FOR RENT Ex. condition. only 1 year old 
springbreaktravel .com 1·800-678-el.corn S bedrooms, 2 baths, dishwash-$350 o.b.o. Call Brendan at 287-Personal 
63B6 8001B38-6411 er, washer/dryer, safe neighbor-9910. Do not worry. I am in control. hood close to campus, alarm sys­B, Spring Break Panama City FOR RENT tem, central air, large living area, 96 Toyota Camry LE,26400 mi. I don't think that you really read 
$129'Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen lanced yard, wood floors, ona large like new. $15,500. these things anyone wanna play a game of 
Next To Clubs!? Parties-Free HOUSE FOR RENT oriental rug. $1100/mo call Victor 219-277-2770 after M. snood 
D11nks!Daytona $149'South Beach TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 5:00pm 
$129ICocoa Beach $149Ispring­4-5 BR Available June for 3 bdrm. duplex, remodeled, 501 BK likes to shop at the limited. 
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 Summer, August for Fall. Eddy SL 1 mi. from campus. LAPTOP PC Doug and MB -I wish I was as but shh .... don't tell his girlfriend. Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer. Full Appliances, w/cJ. P-133 w/ MMX deep as you two are. Unfortunately, WANTED Basement. Large Backyard and OIi 273-8332. Office 97, Wlndows95 I just don'I get the cosmic signi­have fun in drawing today 
Street Parking. MONITORED 32MB RAM. Carrying Case icance of dee-aaaap. I know there Lizzy...you know you love it 
INTERNSHIPS SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED. And Much More! are levels of dee-aaaap, I just don't
FOR SALE 
University Directories afters CAii 289-4712. Call Patrick@ 634-1236 know how to get theie. I 
matto? do you still get the I pa1cJ,lull-time summer sales and Beautiful brass bed,quean I
observer? are you reading this? marketing internsh1ps,open to all WALK TO SCHOOL size.with orthopedic mattress set Kevin, you are my favorite I 
disciplines.College credit avail­2-6 BEDROOM and deluxe frame. NEW Rates Phone Cards teacher. You and Bob, l"m sorry I·m I I 
if so, do you have a phone yet? able Training program.Great STARTING $185 New.never used.still in plas• 282 min never in class !hough -the thing 
call us 

I 
resume booster! 1 (800)743-5556 or MONTH/PERSON tic,$225 $20 is, I'm not enrolled there. But if I I 
I 
www.universitydrrectories.com 232-2595 219-862-4043 call 256-4805 was, man,... I
done 

I I 
I 
,.. I 
page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, January 19, 1999 
¦ WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Techsters knock off UConn • 
Associated Press 
HUSTON, La. 

On a day Louisiana Tech cele­brated its 25 years of women's basketball, the Lady Techsters got one of their most significant victories. · 
Tamicha Jackson scored 26 points while sparking her team's harassing defense and Amanda Wilson added 17 points and 16 rebounds as No. 4 Louisiana Tech beat No. 2 Connecticut 90-76 Monday .. 
Dozens of former Tech play­ers and coaclws watch~d the game and were introduced at halftime. The current team r1cspondAd with a solid effort, coming up with 18 steals and forcing 25 Connecticut turnovers, 15 in the second half. 
As in its loss to Tennessee eight days earlier, Connecticut (15-2) stayed close much of the game, then couldn't handle the pressure down the stretch as Louisiana Tech (14-2) broke it open with two runs. 
The first came after Connecticut had cut the lead to 60-59 on Svetlana Abrosimova's driving shot with 11 :08 left. The Huskies managed only three more baskets the rest of the way and the Tech pressure began to take its toll. 
An 8-0 burst that included two baskets by Jackson made it 68-59. All four field goals in that stretch were layups, the first three after steals. 
Five straight points by Shea Ralph drew to Connecticut to 70-65 with 6:14 remaining, hut Monica Maxwell answered with a 3-pointer to start an 11-2 run that stretched the lead to 81-67 with 2:59 to play, and Lim Lady Techstrirs finished it off with free throws. 
Jackson. who had 16 points in the first half, hit 1 O-of-18 shots, handed out seven assists and made live steals. Maxwell had 11 points and nine rebounds, while reserve Christie Sides added 10 points. 
Abrosimova led UConn with 24 points and Tamika Williams scored H>. 
No. 3 Purdue 71, Illinois 
60 
Ukari Figgs and Stephanie White-McCarty each scored 20 points Monday as \to. 3 Purdue defeated Illinois 71-60. 
It was the 12th straight victo­ry for Purdue (14-1 overall, 6-0 Big Ten). The loss broke an 18­game home winning streak for Illinois (10-7, 4-3). 
Purdue led 39-28 at halftime and took advantage of several steals to stretch the lead to 18 five minutes into the second half. Illinois used a 9-0 run to cut Purdue's lead to 52-43 with 
11:29 left. 
Tho teams-traded baskets for the rest of the game -neither team scored twice in a row until the final seconds -and Illinois could not close the gap. 
Susan Blauser led Illinois with 16 points and Tauja Catchings added 10 in the Tllini's lo·west scoring game of the season. 
Illinois outrebounded Purdue 45-26, with Catchings grabbing 12 and Blauser 11. 
Katie Douglas added 12 points for Purdue. 
Figgs scored 13 points. including three 3-pointers, as Purdue took a 16-8 lead after 10 minutes. The Boilermakers then used an 11-2 run to stretch the lead to 27-12 with about seven minutes left in the half. 
The Illini closed within nine points with 2:18 left in the first half. but figgs hit another 3­pointer and a basket by Camille Cooper at the buzzer put Purdue ahead by 11 at halftime. 
No. 5 Georgia 88, Georgia 
Tech 82 
Coco Miller scored 20 points and No. 5 Georgia, despite a lethargic start, beat Georgia Tech 88-82 Monday in its first game against its intrastate rival 
Interested in Doing Research at a World-class Research Institute? 
Under$raduate Summer Internships 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science and Technology, will award up to two Summer 1999 internships at ANL in Argonne, IL with a follow-up campus research appointment in the Fall. Stipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week 
program. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related discipline (anv field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding; assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 1999, and be registered to return in the Fall of 1999. 
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental Science and Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
Deadline is February 19, 1999 


·7 
I 
I I 

-
'.!: 

... . 
MEET WITH ERNST & YOUNG ON CAMPUS 
University of Notre Dame 
Career Fair January 21, 1999 
They're in touch, in transit and in demand . .. on-site, on-line and on-the-move ... improving businesses, envisioning future technologies and driving change ... think­ing outside the box, designing solutions and delivering value to customers. 
They're Ernst & Young management consul­tants, and they're going places -making a global impact in one of the most dynamic fields of the 90's and beyond. 
As an Ernst & Young management consultant, you'll help companies from Fortune 1,000 giants to Silicon Valley start-ups explore new strategies, methods, markets and technologies -long before oth­ers are even aware they exist. 
Of equal importance, while you're learning and achieving, we'll put all the strength of our industry­leading organization behind your own career development. With 13,000 consultants delivering ideas and solutions from 89 offices worldwide, we provide an unparalleled world of resources and the opportunity to grow and learn with a proven leader in today's business. 
Please forward your resume to: EY Careers, Dept. 10296, 113 Terrace Hall Avenue, Burlington, MA 01803; Fax Toll Free to Dept. 10296: 1-877-4EY-JOBS; or E-mail: dept.10296@eycareers.com. Please be sure to indicate the department number on your cover letter and resume for routing purposes. Please visit our web site at: http://VvWw.ey.com. No phone calls please. 
Ell ERNST&YOUNG LLP 
£11154 & '(uuni: LL/', an ~qiwl oJiJmtunity empkryer, ~(1lu,:s th~ Jiwrsity of our W[Jrk force and the knowldg~ of uur peopl~. 
r 
page 18 
I I
' 
Swilll 
continued from page 24 
scored :l2 points automatical­ly with their strong diving 
squad. 
"If you compared us to other Notre Dame teams, we would be like football without its quarterback, or like bas­ke lball without its center. That's how we are without diving." coach Tim Welsh said. 
Said Vince Kuna, "Not hav­ing a diver hurt us. but that's no excuse. You still have to swim up. If you compared just swimming to swimming. it was a pretty even meet." 
The Irish were behind by only one point at the first of two diving breaks, but the Spartans, who finished three places behind the Irish in December's Notre Dame Invitational, had their best meet of the season. 
Despite the loss, the Irish arc not disappointed with their overall performance. 


LAFORTUNE CLUSTER 
Monday IOAM-Noon Midnight -2 AM 
Tuesday 1lAM-Noon Wednesday JO PM-2 AM 
Thursday I lAM-Noon 4 PM -6 PM 10 PM-2 AM 
Friday JO AM -Noon 
DEBARTOLO CLUSTER 
Friday 

:.. 
8:00 PM -Midnight 
If you are available to work some of these time slots and are interested in 
becoming a consultant, contact Laura Gekefer at gekefer. 1@nd.edu 

HESBURGH CLUSTER 
Sunday 
10 AM-I !AM 
1 PM-2 PM 5 PM -6 PM IAM-2AM 
Monday 8AM-10AM l PM-2 PM 
Tuesday 8AM-10AM Noon -I PM I I PM -Midnight 
Wednesday 
8 AM -3 PM Midnight -2 AM 
Thursday 8AM-10AM 6 PM-7 PM Midnight -2 AM 
Friday 
SAM-11AM 
9 PM -2 AM Saturday 9 PM-2 AM 

Ameal so good,it already comes with seconds. 
Try our tasty Two-Fors. 
2burgers. 2 small fries. Just $2.22. 
(Price and participation may vary.) 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
.-. 
BURGER 
KING 

It just tastes " better. 
©1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the registered Bun Halves logo trademark. 
__________...,______________________ 
Tuesday, January 19, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS 
produce much scoring against Villanova.
Irish 
The tnam's sncond lnading scorer, David Graves, felt
continued from page 24 
some growing pains as he without their big gun on w1mt J-11 from tlrn lield whih1 Salurclay, tlw Irish couldn't playing wilh a sprained lel't 

Senior guard Paul Rainey and the Irish will take on Seton Hall tonight at the Joyce Center. 
Starts Wednesday, January 20 




Discover Financial Services, Inc. (formerly NOVUS Services, Inc.), a business unit of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., operates all Discover Card Brands !hat are accepted at all NOVUS Network locations. The NOV US Network, the third largest credit card network in the United States, consists ot merchants and cash access locations that accept Discover Card Brands. We are currently seeking individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL • CIC$ • VSAM • DB/2 • JCL C • C++ • JAVA ¦ ORACLE • UNIX 
We offer a wide array of workplace amenities including excellent salaries and benefits, 401 K, profit sharing, tuition reimbursement, fitness center and acasual dress environment. If unable to attend, please send your scanable resume to: 
Discover Financial Services, Inc. Human Resources, IT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road • Riverwoods, IL 6001 5 Fax: (8471 405-1388 
Visit our Web Site at 
www.novusnet.com 
EOE M/F/DN 
ldl 

Prayer. Music. Unity. 
-(Z\MPU5
MINISTRY 

shoulder. 
Seniors Antoni Wyche and Phil Hickey were also ineffec­tive as Lhey scored a combined ·11 points on 4-l 7 shooting. 
Todd Palmer and Harold Swanagan both saw time at Murphy's power forward posi­tion and scored nine and 22 
points, respectively, in  the  
Villanova game.  
More  alarming  than  the  

offensive woes was the team's defense, which lacked intensi­ty and let the Wildcats have dH'ir way. 
The Irish know that tonight's game prnsents an opportunity to put those ugly memories behind lhcm. But. shutting clown lhe Pirates offrnse, led by Shaheen llolloway, will be quite n chore. 
The 5-10 guard can gives defenses fits with his leg­breaking eross-overs and daz­zling speed. The junior aver­ages nearly 11 points and almost seven assists a game. 
Aside from Ilollowav the Irish will have to keep a· hand in the l'ace of Bimas Kaukenas. The Lithuanian guard aver­ages 14 points ,L game and shoots 48 percent from three point land. 
Pirate head coach Tommy Amaker also has offensive weapons in Gary Saunders and Duane Jordan, who aver-
Join us for a30-minute 
gathering ofprayer and praise 
for all faith traditions. 
...featuring the Celebration Choir. 
Wednesdays, 1Opm. Walsh Hall Chapel. 
age 15. 7 and 10.4 points a game, respectively. 
"We just have to forget ahout those games and come in and play," lngclsby said. "IIopcfully we'll come out with a lot more intensity than we did the last two games." 
Macleod and his staff have had more time to find an offense without Murphy than they did before the Villanova game and they implemented some new things for this week. 
"We've been working on a few new things and we're going to be ready for what 
Seton llall brings to us." lngclsby said. "We're expect­ing them tu press us so we have to protect tlrn ball and try to get out in the f'ast break." · 
With 11 games remaining, Notre Dame needs to find answers in a hurry. 
"Ilopcfully we can get a little string going heading into the rest of the Big East," lngelsby said. "We have to play well and get a couple of good games under our belts so we can start feeling good about ourselves again." 

COREC FLAG FOOTBALL CAMPUS RAOUETBALL DOUBLES (M & W) IH TEAM RAQUETBALL (M & W) COREC VOLLEYBALL IH BOWLING (M & W) 


ecSports Office 
olfs Sports Recreation Center 
1-6100 • http://www.nd.edu/.... ,ecsport 




page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, January 19, 1999 
¦ FOOTBALL 
Nine Irish players selected to all-star games 
Howard selected to Hula Bowl, All-Star Classic 
Special to The Ohserver 
Nine different graduating Notrp Dame football players have been selected to play in various college all-star football games in 1999, the most Irish players to participate in post­season contests in nine years. 
Offensive tackle· Mike Rosenthal, offensive tackln Luke Ptctitgout, outside linebacker Kory Minor, tailback Autry Denson, and offensive guard Jerry Wisne (unable to partic­ipatP: dlH~ to injury) werA select­
.. 
ed to the Senior Bowl lo be hold in Mobilfi, Ala. 
Inside lint>backf'r Bobbie Iluward and sal'ety Benny Guilbeaux will take part in the Hula Bowl in Maui, Hawaii. 
Huward·will also µlay in the All-Star Gridiron Classic in Orlando, Fla., along with team­mates split end i'\1alcolm Johnson and punter Hunter Smith. 
That is tlw most Irish seniors to win invitations to play in the postseason since 1990 when Tony Hice (Hula Bowl, East­West Shrine Game), Ned Bolcar (East-West, Japan Bowl), Jeff 
Recycle the Obseruer 

Alm (Japan), Anthony Johnson (Hula), Tim Grunhard o-Jula), D'.Juan Francisco (Ilula), Dean Brown (Hula), Pat Terrell (East­West) and Stan Smagala (Senior Bowl} all participated. 
Hosenthal, a first-team Walter Camp Foundation and second­team Associated Press All­American, led a rejuvenated Irish rushing attack in '98 that ranked 16th nationally at 212.5 yards per game. 
He was joined by two-year starters Petitgout and Wisne, whose knee ligament in.iury in tlw Navy game ended his '98 season. 
Minor was a four-year Irish starter who led the team in sacks and forced fumbles in '98 and had 22 1/2 can~cr sacks. Denson, a second-team AP All­American. led the Irish in rush­ing with his third straight 1,000­yard season in '98 and finished as Notre Dame's all-time best career rusher with 4,M8 yards. 
Howard led the Irish in tack­
Ins in '98 with 118, while 
Guilbeaux added 38 tackles and 
an interception in '98 and fin­
islrnd with nine career intercep­
tions. 
Johnson led tho lrish in '<)8 with 43 catches for 692 vards and six touchdowns -~vhile Smith finished with a 41.2-yard career average (second on all­time Irish list} after four seasons as Notre Dame's top punter. 
Save Big on Mac & Windows Software! 
Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on all software. Call Now for FREE delivery on all orders until 1 /29/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 

THE 

is accepting applications for: 
1999-2000 
Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged ro apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Heather Cocks by 5 p. rn. Monday, January 25. For additional information about the position ar application process, contact Heather Cocks at 631-4542, or stop by the office downstairs in South Dining Hall. 
..,. 
I ' 

Tuesday, January 19, 1999 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
¦ NBA 
Olowokandi continues play in Italy 
Associated Pres~ 
BO! OGNA, Italy 

Michael Olowokancli slaps his 
achi11g riglll krmn, yells sonw­
thing at no 01w in partil'ular 
and walks slowly hack to Uw 
bnnch, whcr<' Im tossns a towel 
on Urn floor. 
Tlw 7-foot-1 C('llLI\I' had just pic:kPd up his lil'th and last foul with (,:(14 lnf'L in a homn playoff ganrn with Kindnr Bologna. whirh wnnt on lo !osn to crosstown rival Tca111Systm11. 
llis stat lilw Thursday night was not cxaclly wllilt llw dn!iinding f;urol.,\agtw champi­on had in mind at tlrn start ol' .January whm1 il took advantage of' tlrn NB/\ lockout to sign thn 
No. I ovnrall pick in June's 
draft. 
And it's not exactly what the 2:1-ycar-old 0lowokandi nnvi­sioilcd, !dthor. 
"They havo their snt ways, tlwh· set plays," he said. "They rely 011 thnir guards more than their hig men. I came horn to play, not just to hn part or the roster." 
That's what ho will be until at lnasl Fl'b. 'IS, "vvlrnn he can got out ol' Urn contract ho signed about 24 hours b(ifore the NBA ancl its players struck a deal to end the lockout. 
Kinder is trying lo persuade 0lowokandi to stay until April -and Im won't rule that out ­but lw sounds as if he's anxious 
played basketball until his late teens. when he had a growth spurt. · 
"I said to myself, 'If I'm going 
lo play this game at a serious 
level, maybe I need to stop 
messing around with a bunch of 
English kids who are 5 feet tall, 
and !ind more of a challenge,"' 
he said, smiling. 
lie wound up at Pacific in 
Stockton, Calif .. whern his aver­
ages went from 4.0 points. 3.4 
rebounds and 132 blocks in his 
first season to 22.2, 1l.2 and 
2.88 in his third and last year. Including bis stint in Italy, he has played 80 games of orga­nized basketball. 
Olowokandi will have to skip Clippers training camp and miss the beginning of the season, set for the first week of Fcl.Jruary. His game and conditiQning suf­fered during the lockout, he acknowledged, and the pound­ing since he started playing in Italy has aggravated tendinitis in his right knee. 
"I hav~ absolutely no regrets. I did what I had to do," he said, referring lo his decision lo play in Italy. "It looked like the sea­son would be canceled." 
Three NBA playnrs also moved to Europe right bel'ore tlrn lockout was resolvnd -Vlade Divac (Charlotte), Arvydas Sabonis (Portland) and Vinny Del Negro (San Antonio). 
Del Negro joined TeamSystem and had an up-close look at Olowokandi. · 
"From what I've seen, il looks like he has good hands for a big man. Ile just needs time," said 0el Negro, who can return lo Uw NliA on Feb. l . 
¦ NFL 
Reeves does "Dirty Bird" on Atlanta street 
SUWANEE, Ga. 
Afttir the Atlanta Falcons 
dcfeatiid N1Jw England 41-10 
in early November, Dan 
Heeves promised to danc<i the 
"Dirty Bird" on Poachtree 
Str,,et if his team made it to 
the Sup(ff Bowl. 
Reoves' players did t.lrnir 
part Sunday, b1iating 
Minnosota 30-27 in overtime 
to win Urn NFC championship. 
So Monday morning, on his 
way to appear on ABC's 
"Good Morning America," 
Hoevos kopt his word. The 
AtlanttJ, coach, who turns 55 
Tuesday, claims he stopped 
his car along th,~ city's most­
famous street and performed 
his version of the Falcons' 
end-zorw celtibration. · 
There's only one problem: 
he had no witnesses. -"1 didn't say how long and I 
didn't say when, so 1 did it 
this morning," Heeves said 
with a smile. "It was 6:45, and 
then, was nobody on the 
road. That's why I did it, and I 
did it goooood." 
Falcons receiver 'l\irnnce Mathis, who caught tlrn touch­down pass that helped Atlanta send the game into overtime, wasn't buying Reovos· version of events. 
"That's a cop out, man," Mathis said with a laugh. ''1-fo could have at least called tho media and alerted them. That doesn't count. We'rn going to make him do it." 

lo play for the Los Angeles Clippers, who hold his NBA rights. 
"I'm not hem lo /'urce any­thing down anybody's throat," Olowokandi said, "but usually when you're the top pick, they build a lflam around you. They start from scratch. Over here ... their actions. the plays being drawn up, aro not indicativ11 of me boing a top pick," 
Kindor is 2-2 since Olowokalldi joined the team four months into its season. lle's averaging 8.5 points, most­ly on put-backs, and 7,:-{ rebounds. 
'Td rather you live or you die by me," he said. "Don't makfl me the savior and not give me 
the chance to be the savior. 
-,,. 
~  
C.)  INFORMATION MEETING  
C  Sunday, January T 7 Rolfs Sports Recreation Center  

""' 2:00pm~Activity Room 2
,_,.-----___ 
Classes Meet Saturdays -12:'30-2:00pm 
= 
Tuesdays~ 7:45-9:00pm 

Rolfs Sports Recreation Center-Activity Room 2 
Register in advance ar RecSpons Class fee is $'35.00 
Sign-Ups begin Monday, January 18, 8:00am Classes begin Saturday, January 23 Space is limited 
!l's somewhat hard to take." 
.Just playing in Italy must be 

hard to take. especially for a 
player who one day could 
make an imJmct. in the NBA. 
TaktJ the scene Thursday at PalaMalaguti, an arena in s·uburban Bologna that was designed for equestrian shows and seats a shade over 8,000 when temporary bleachers am wher.led in. Shrill air horns. constant whistling and a live-man brass band in the stands niade it foci more likr, a high school pep rally than a pro basketball game. 
"It's very different from the NBA. It's more of a soccer crowd, but I'm used to that," said Olowokandi, who was born in Nigeria and raised in England. 
Dallying in track and field and soccer whilr. living in Englund, 0l11wokandi never 
ID)@ ~@mm:,rIBJIIN~ 
IIDIIJFJFimmlmNT 

THE SUMMER IS YOUR CHANCE TO SHINE. ~ 
, 
Summer Service Projects 1999 

, I
*8 weeks of service learning
** Information Meeting**: 
*$1 700 tuition scholarship 
C E N T E R F O R 
*Valuable alumni contacts
January 19th (Tuesday) 
SOCIAL 
*3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists 
Center for Social Concerns CONCERNS 
*Over 200 sites across the U.S.and abroad 
I \ , , • I 
page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, January 19, 1999 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Pitchers Helling, Nomo sign contract extensions 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

Six more players in salary arbitration, including Rick Helling and Hideo Nomo, agreed to contracts Monday on the eve of the annual exchange of fig­ures. 
Helling. who won 20 games to tie Roger Clemens and David Cone for the American League lead, agreed to a $10.5 million, three-year contract with the Texas Rangers, a steep increase from his $216,500 salary last season. 
Nomo. traded to the New York Mets by Los Angeles last June, got a one-year deal worth 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
I \. 
I 
$2,925,000, a raise of$125,000. 
Also settling Monday were St. Louis reliever Ricky Bottalico ($2.25 million). Boston outfielder Damon Buford ($1.1 million). Chicago White Sox right-hander Hill Simas ($1. 1 million) and 
· Anaheim right-hander Mark Petkovsek ($800,000). Among the 62 players who filed for arbitration Friday, 53 were still set to exchange figures with their teams Tuesday. The top names were Derek Jeter, Andy Pettitte and Mariano llivera of the New York Yankees; Aaron Sele of the Rangers: Carlos Delgado of the Toronto Blue Jays and Charles Johnson of the Baltimore Orioles. 
Delgado, according Lo several player and management sources, was contemplating ask­ing for $9 million or more. The record asking price of $9 million was set last year by New York Yankees outfielder Bernie Williams, who settled at $8.25 million and agreed after the sea­son to an $87.5 million, seven­year deal. 
Delgado, a first baseman, made $2.4 million last year, when he hit .292 with 38 homers and 115 RBIs. 
Players who don't settle will be scheduled for arbitration hearings during the first three weeks of February, but fewer than 10 r.ases are expected to go 
Rutgers upsets No. 20 Syracuse 
Associated Press 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. 

Freshman Dahntay Jones srored a season-high 23 points and Rutgers made 15 of 18 free throws over the final 5:16 to beat No. 20 Syracuse 74-71 Monday night. 
The Scarlet Knights (11-6, 4-4 Big East) had just one field goal over the 4 1/2 minutes, a layup by Jeff Greer that gave them a 74-68 lead with 11 seconds to play. 
Allen Griffin then made his second 3-pointer of the final 30 seconds to bring Syracuse (12-5, 4-4) within 74-71 with 1.9 sec­onds left. 
Rutgers was unable to inbound the ball on its first try and was to hearings. This year, 75 per­cent of the cases will be sched­uled beforn three-man panels rather than individual arbitra­tors. 
Cincinnati pilcher Jason Bere ($1.2 million) settled immediate­ly after filing Friday. Settling over the weekend were San Die~n rlght-lrnndnr Dan MicPJi ($4 u million for thrnn years) and ll011ston righl-handPr Joso 
Lima ($1.95 million). Helling, who went 20-7 with a 
4.41 ERA in 33 starts, will make $2.25 million in 1999, $3. 75 mil­lion in 2000. and $4.5 million in 2001. He has less than three years of major league service but qualified as a "Super Two," ono of the dozen of so players each year with 2-3 years of ser­vice who became cligibk under t.he 191JO I, ,ckout settlement. 


Information Meeting: Sunday, January 17, 2:30pm Activity Room 2-Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Register in Advance at RecSports-$35.00 Fee Sign-Ups begin Monday. January 18, 8:00am CLASSES BEGIN~ SATURDAY, JANUARY 23 No Experience Necessary. 
Space is limited. ­
forced to call a timeout. The sec­ond try at inbounding by Earl Johnson wa...:; tipped and it went to Ryan Blackwell of Syracuse but his 3-point try at the buzzer hit the rim. 
The game was one of two very different halves. Rutgers, which had losl four of its last five. used a 19-2 run to take a 25-14 lead with 10:14 left in the first half. Syracuse, which had won five of six, used a 12-2 run to get within 31-28 with 3:02 left in the half and Rutgers led 35-32 at half­time. 
Neither team led by more five points until the final minute and there was one five-possession sequenr.e where the lead changed hands five tiIJ!eS. 
But Rutgers, led by the inspired play of sei)ior forward Rob Hodgson, who was cut over the right eye in a scramble and had to wear three different jer­seys as the cut continued to bleed, had a 68-63 lead with 57 seconds left on a free throws by Geoff Billet. 
Huge Savings on all Mac & Windows Software! 
Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on all software. FREE delivery on all orders until 1/25/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 


I I I I • I 
I 
' 

1i1esd:1y, J:muary 19, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
LOOKING THROUGH TIIE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENJA LAST 
FOXTROT 
DILBERT 
.NAGI WHAT l>O you ;,iEArJ 1. 'M 
,4 NAG!! 
\ 
BILL AMEND 
You"RE RIGHT. IT 15 JUST


WALLY, TELL OUR 
VIEWER$ HOW 'YOUR 
INTERNET $TART-UP GOT 50 HOT. 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
BEA.TS f'I\E. I WP...5 IT Sf\'{5 
IS r'\Y 
PON)'T/:l.1L

WONDt..RING HOW \-\£RE '!'OU 
DOING

"i'OU GOT 50 HOT. l'f'I\ WE.RE AN 
BURNI.NG VP O\/ER­HERE.! 
ANYTl·rtNG

ENGINE.ER. 
FOR YOU? 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95C per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last SO years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D. Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ----------------------------­
Address-------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1999 CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS to ~rgumt>nts or physical confnint,1­OAY: Dolly Parton, Robert Palmer, tions. 000 Shelley Fabares, Jean Stapleton, Desi VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpl. 22): fapect Amaz Jr., Janis Joplin to have headad,es if you haven"! been Happy Birthday: Let things un­watching your dietary habits. Finan­fold as the,· mav. You will do just tin(' cial stress will be th,• result of poor this year if you don't complicate your budgeting. Romantic encounters will lif(' You need to build a solid base in be exciting but not lasting 000 · order tL, achieve the security you're LIBRA (Sept. 23-Ocl. 22): Concen­looking for. Take small but important trate on work-related prnjects. Re­steps to reach success. If you n1ake evaluat(' your direction and look at calculJted moves, you will find your­the different career oplion,s available. self sitting in a good position. Your You must be ser,ious and use your. numbers: 3, 14, 24, 33, 42, 47 discipline in order lo grt ahead ARIES (March 21-April 19): 00000 Advancemen,t will be yours if you SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be are willing to do a little extra. Your caore.ful when dealing with co-work­intentions and motivations are ers. Deception is likely if you don't positive and will lead to success. stay on top of your personal situation. Minor surg,•ry or oral work wilt be Avoid intimacies with colleague,. Do favorable. 0000 not divulge secret inlonnation, 00 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This SAGITTARIUS (Nov, 22-Dec, 21): is a good day to get out, join 1;roups Problems that have been plaguing or attend seminars. You can expand you should be cleared up regardless your circle of friends. Avoid getting of the consequences. Honesty in your involved in joint financial ventures personal relationship will be the key even if it does meary disrupting a to a solid and lasting union. 0000 friendship. 00 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Direct Get away for th'e day with your lover your efforts into money. Put in extra Help family members with their hours at work. llusiness meetings will immediate problems by giving of reveal valuable information. Call your time. Friendships with foreign· your mate so he or she doesn't feel ers will be enlightening 000 neglected. 00000 AQUARIUS (Jan, 20-Feb. 18): CANCER (June 21-July 22): Talk Professional gains can be made. Busi­about your feelings today. You should ness trips will pay big dividends and ask your lowr exactly what his or her bring you into contact with future intentions are. You must remain calm allies or possible business partners. if you wish the results to be good. 000 Self-confidence will be necessary. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 000 can expect to ,have some changes with LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may regard to your personal relationships. need a little extra cash for an unex­Don't be too quick to blame someone pected bill. You cannot buy friends or else when the problem may be your impress others with your extrava­own.000 gance Avoid situations that wit! lead Birthday Baby: You are a social butterfly. You love to Cl(' when' the action is. You nee..-! to raise your self-confidence in order to be able to l"<'ach vour dreams, hopes and wishes. The proper training throughout life should be of utmost importance to you.  
¦ OF INTEREST Washington and Appalachia Seminars -The C1mter for Social Concerns will be having information sessions for the Washington (7 p.m.) and Appalachia Seminar (7:30 p.m.) on Wednesday, Jan. 20 at the csc. Summer Internship Fair -will be sponsored by Career & Placement Services on Thursday from 1-4:30 p;m. in the Sports Heritage Hall on ihH socond level of the Joyce Center. Those interested should bring their resume. Many companies will interviews interested candidates the following day.  
The sports department is currently taking applications for the position of Production Assistants. Call 1--4543 for more information.  

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
• 
.. 
... 
a 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Polish border river 
s Lazy girl? 10 It's uplifting 13 Comic's missiles 
14 Strangle 
15 Stimpy's TV pal 
16 Character 
created by 58-Across 10 F.D.R. measure 19 Spiral-horned 
sheep 20 "Ready. ..I" 
21 Tiny stream 22 Employers ot 58-Across 25 Greek H 26Army cops 27 Frozen desserts 
28 German spa 30 Claiborne or 
Smith 32 West Pointer 33 1951 film 
featuring 58-Across 37 Patnck of 
"MaraVSade" 40 Ernie Els's org. 41 Comic Deluise 44 Patti of opera 
lore 47 Under the 
weather 49 Caviar 51 Where 
58-Across died, 
1979 54 Bandy words 55 Burgle 56 Parrots, in a way 57 SST's fly over it: 
Abbr. 

58 Memorable Big Top star born 12/8/1898 
60 King of Kings 61 Drops in the letter box 62 Ciardi's "-a Man" 
63 Leandro's love 
64 "I give up!" 
65 So-called 
monster's home 
DOWN 
1 Surgeon's decision 2 You're working on one 3 Showed on TV again 4Sanctuary 
5--fi 
60ldPolish lancer 7 Pyramid and 
cube a Like some arms 9 Society page word 
10Grilled 
11 Satiated 
12Wall Street worker 
16 " ... gimble 1n the--": Carroll 
17 Nun's headdress 21 Decorative strip of fabric 
23 "Oh, you wish!" 
24 Medieval chest 
29 Of a stone pillar 
31 Nuke 34 "Who does he think--'" 
35 End-of-week cry 
36 Xylophone tool 37 Knead 
38 Converting device: Var. 
39 First name in TV talk 42 Gregg Olson and others 43 Early assembly-line cars 

45 Bates of "Psycho" 46 Extremely tiny 48Commit unalterably 50 "Duck soup" 
52Clearas­53 Part of a sentence, in linguistics 58 Cassowary's cousin 59 Mao --tung 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

.., 


¦ As NBA lockout .¦ Notre Dame sends nears an end, trade most players to a1l-star rumors have begun to games since the 1990 emerge. class.
PORTS 
p.12 p.20 
¦ MEN'S AND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Women top Illinois, Purdue; men fall to Michigan State 
By WES RICHARDSON Sports W rirer 
The women's swim team picked up two victories last weekend with wins over lllinois (195.5-153.5) and Ohio State (214-130). while the men fell to \1ichigan State t 38-99. 
The two-day. double dual meet at Illinois marks the sec­ond time in two weeks that the Notre Dame women, now 7-2 in dual-meet action, have defeated Illinois. The Irish beat them by winning the Hainbow Invitational in Hawaii on Jan. 2-3. 
"They out-swam us in Hawaii, but with the help of our incredible divers, we managed to pull off a win." Tiffany O'Brien said. "This weekend, we out-swam them, so it was a great team effort." 
Four Irish swimmers were double-event winners in the 
¦ BASKETBALL 
two-day meet at Illinois. C.aptain Liz Barger won both butterny races, setting a pool record in the 200-yard event at 2:02.81. 
Krlly J-lrcking continued her dominance in. the backstroke, winning both events. Excluding October's dual meet against top-ranked Stanford, Becking is unbeaten in dual­meet backstroke. 
Sophomore Carrie Nixon led an Irish sweep of the 50 freestyle, and also won the 200 individual medlev, while classmate Kristen Van Saun defeated all competition in the 500 and JO00 freestyle. 
lfecking, Brittany Kline, Barger and Nixon combined to set a pool record and season­best time of 1:46.44 en route to winning 200 medley relay. 
The Irish went into tho meet unsure about whether they had fully recovered from a two-week training trip that 
ended a day before the start of classes. Luckily, lllinois had the same question about themselves. 
"We were tired, we were sick. Regardless, we swam well," assistant coach Kristen Heath said. "A lot of things we went over in tlw training trip paid off well." 
"We came into the meet knowing they (Illinois) were out to do their hest to beat us, but we were a bit shocked after the first <lay to sec thut we wrre ahead," O"Brien said. 
Miscommunication toward the end of the meet led the Irish 400 freestyle relay to swim twice. Despite being dis­qualified, the relay swam faster the second time. 
Falling to 2-3 for the season, the men felt the impact of a lack of divers in their loss to Michigan State. The Spartans 
see SWIM/page 18 

Pirates invade Joyce Center 
By JOEY CAVATO Associate Spores Editor 
Every season has turning points. for better or for worse. 
Notre Dame basketball coach John Macl.eod hopes that his squad's 1998-99 cam­paign didn't take a serious turn for the worse when freshman sensation Troy Murphy's ankle took an awful­ly nasty turn of its own. 
Murphy, the team's leading scorer and rebounder, sprained his ankle last week in practice and is out for 1-5 weeks. 
With two home games this week, and a 9-9 record (3-4 Big East). tonight's game against 11-5 Seton Hall could mark a pivotal point in the season. 
This week was supposed to be a chance for the Irish to recover from three consecu­tive road games and gear up for the final stretch of the sea­son. But if MacLeod and com­pany cannot find answers, they will find themselves in quite a hole. 
Without Murphy, who has already shown the ability to dig his team out of holes with thfl effici<mcy of a Caterpi1lar, MacLeod is simply looking for a crew of hard workers with hand tools. 
Notre Dame returns home after getting blown out by top­
.. ranked Connecticut and Villanova, who put up 18 points before the Irish got on the board. The Irish hope a little home cooking will do the trick to get out of this funk. 
"We're pretty anxious to get.. back home," sophomore guard Marti n I n ge Ish y s a id . "We 

Men win four events in first outing of '99 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame men's indoor track and field team started their 1999 season off by winning four events at the non-toam scoring Boiler Open, which was held last Saturday at Purdue University. . in West Lafayette, Ind.. · 
Junior Matshau11 West placed first in both of the two events he competed in· by winning the long jump with a leap of 24-5 1/2 and the 200-meter dash. in a career-best time of21.57. 
Senior co-captain Mike Brown (Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.) won the pole vault,~f:th a Inai'k ofl.:7-11/2,Brown's.. heJght .was· the 
third best.tndoo.r mark in Notre Dame fi.istqry. Senior Chip Dovidio 
· rounded out the team's event winners when he placed first in the triple jump with a mark of44-11 
112. . , 

. fhe .next indc1o{meet of i·t~:e; se.a.S'f)r) ;fqf U\'~ Notre · DamG,men'$ trackanc.l field team ,vill. be .nc.xt Saturday. Jah. 23 at the Red Simmons Invitational in Ann Arbor,
haven't played well the last before we go on the road 
Mich.

couple of games so hopefully again." 
we can get a good solid game Playing for the first time 
under our belts at home 
see IRISH/ page 19 


DeBartolo wins shot put in first meet 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's track and field team opened their 1999 indoor season with a win and five second­place finishes at the non­team scoring Purdue Open in West Lafayette, Ind., on Friday. 
Freshman Dore DeBartolo was the lone event-winner for the Irish. DeBartolo, com­peting in her first collegiate meet, won the shot put with a throw of 45-2 1/2 to beat her nearest competitor, Purdue's Darria Clayton, by almost three feet. 
Second-place individual finishers for the Irish includ­ed Liz Grow in the 200-meter dash, sophomore Carri Lenz in the 400-meter dash, junior Nicole LaSelle in the 3,000­meter run and Jennifer Engelhardt in the high jump event. 
The Notre Dame women's distance medley team also finished second behind Purdue with a time of 12:23.42, . 
The next indoor 'mflet for the women will take place next Saturday at the Red Simmons Invitational in Ann Arbor, Mich. · 

ar Sewn Hall at Nonhern Michigan \'<'ednesday, 7:30 p.m. Friday, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 
Women's Swimming at Michigan


ATA 

vs. Seton Hall Men's Swimming Jan. 30, 4 p.m. Ton·ight, 7:30 p.m. ar Western Ontario
GLANCE Saturday 
... 





