
DMB blues 
Mir ready for 2000? 
Scene reviews Dave Matthews Band's third 
After 13 years in space, Russian officials claim 
Tuesday
live album in two years. J\ second studio 
that the Mir Space Station is ready for 
afhum is due out in May. 
New Year's. 
NOVEMBER 30,
Scene . page 10 
World & Nation . page 5 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 59 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Desperate for control 
. Counseling services at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer help for students with eating disorders. 
By l.AURA ROMPF 
~rw,; W1iter 
Tlw slrPss on Notrn Damn sludnnts is overwlwlming. Papers, tests and com­111utnr programs. Volunltinring, sports and rnlationships. Ilaving control ovPr even onn aspnrt of" lif'P is an arcomplishment. U11fortunatnly. for approximately 10 per­!'.Pnl ol' tlw stucl1rnt population. this "con­trol" is causing harm and <wim permanent damagn lo thPir hoclins. 
On 1.liP national !cw! morn than 5 million Anwrkans suffer from eating disorders ­:, fJP1T1mt of adolescent and adult women, and I pnn:1mt or men have anorexia ner: vosa. bulimia rwrvosa. or binge-eating dis­ordnr. 
Fifll\(\11 pmcnnt of young women have substantially clisordNml eating attitudes and lll'haviors. and an nstirnat<'d 1,000 womr•n diii Par.h yoar of anornxia rmrvosa. 
"WPsl<>rn nrlturn itself p11ts a foe.us on looks, body image. and bl'ing thin," said Chris PP1HliPy, assistant director of Cou11sf'ling and Can\1•r i)1!vclopnwnl al St. Mary's. "On a coll1ig1\ campus appearance is Vtffy important in attracting a mate, I\SJWcially in tlw agn group 18 lo 24. Appnara1H'.I\ is sti<m as a key to success." 
1'1•11dlny added that many other aspects of rnllPgti lifo add to the idnal environment for nating disordnrs. 
"/\n aspect of' coll<~ge that causes eating disorders is students worry about gaining the "freshman 15," said Pendley. "This worry causes them to forget that their bod­ins are naturally maturing and changing. and the weight gain experienced is not alwavs fat." 
"/\~other factor is residence halls. I know at Saint Mary's and l assume it is true of Notre Dame, our students are very competitive. This competitiveness can carry over into appearance; they want to look the best," Pendley continued. 
"Several other factors are also involved. Stress both academic and financial and 

LET IT SNOW! 

being away from home for the first time all cause eating disorders," she said. 
"Bulimia might develop because students have unlimited access to food in the dining hall. Where at home dinner would consist of what was served and once it was gone, it was gone. Because students can go back several times, bingeing may occur," she said. 
Due to all these factors, the environment on college campuses cause for a higher concentrated source of the three main eat-
see EATING/page 4 

. One student's personal struggle with anorexia. 
F:ditors nore.· Kn1hlu11 McCam, is,, Norrr Dame ,enior who has rnfferrdfi-om <111 rati11g diwr­der. 11,is is her story, 

I'm an intensely privato person, but I am sharing my experience ­not to be understood as typical ­to raise awareness on campus. Eating disorders, I believe, are onn of the most misunderstood, under­diagnosed, and stigmatized dis­eases. 
Eating disorders, I would like to define, arc not just about 'really skinny girls.· Only tlrns1\ girls in advanced stages of anorexia ner­vosa, one type of eating disorder, appear 'too thin.' Bulimia and com­pulsive overeating can also affect both men and women; eating disor­ders may include not only just food but those who have addictions to power bars or power shakes and excessive exercise. 
In retrospect -as in evnrything else in life! -it is easier to pin­point how my eating disorder developed. Iligh school is stressful for everymrn. 
I had the usual academic stress to which most of us bore can relate: [ was highly active in NIIS, athletics, student government and orchestra. My father was diagnosed with cancer my frnshman year, and died my sophomore year; my 
see MCCANN/page 4 

Medieval studies endowed with $400,000 challenge grant 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame, has received a $400.000 challenge grant from the Andrew \V. l'vlellon Foundation to endow a fellowship in medleval stud­ies. 
The Mellon Foundation's challenge grant, which requires Notre Dame to raise an additional $350,000. is itself a response to a $450,000 challenge grant to the Univ~rsity from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEil). The NEB grant, made earlier this year, is contingent upon Notre Dame's raising $1.8 mil­lion for library collections and faculty fellowships in thn Medieval Institute and the Keough Institute for Irish Studies. 
"We an• grateful to the Mellon Foundation both for this generous grant and for the recognition it con­veys," said University president Father Edward Malloy. "The Medieval Institute is among Notre Dame's most celebrated academic flntities. and these challenge grants will strengthen it yet further." 
Father Philip Moore established Notre Dame's first medieval studies program in 1933 with tlrn assistance of thfl 1--'rench mndievalist and philosopher Etienne Gilson. Th<~ Univflrsity's MediPval Institute was established 14 years later and is today, under the direction of Patrick Geary, among the most prominent interdisciplinary programs of its kind in the nation. 
The Andrew W, Mellon Foundation makes grants on a selectivn basis to institutions in higher education. in cultural affairs and the performing arts, in population, in conservation and the environment and in public affairs. ll has provided support for Notre Dame's Medieval Institute, the Kellogg institute for International Studies, the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal /\rts and. most recent­ly, a rflsearch project on the flffocts of secondary education on students at selective colleges. 
Tho grants are components of the University's $767 million Generations campaign. 


r~-----: 
r 
--------.--,--­
t page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, November 30, 1999
: ============================================================ 
INSIDE COLUMN

! 
~ 
'I Want It That Way' 
As I sit down to type this column. my oars can still hear a faint ringing from the week­end. No, not from a long plane ride back after Thanksgiving break. rather from over 22,000 pre-teen girls screaming at 
the top of their lungs. What for? None other than the top 40 sensation: the Backstreet Boys. 
Okay sure, make fun of me. I went to their concert. Go ahead, say that you would never lower yourself to listening to those songs. Tell me what they sing is 


not music at all. Believe Laura Rompf me, I've heard all the criti­cism. 
Yes, I know each boy by name, and I admit that is Copy Editor somewhat pathetic. But at least I'm honest. 
I've discovered that there are more closet Backstreet fans on this cam­pus than I even dreamed possible. Maybe they do not own both CDs as I do. Maybe they did not recently purchase a poster for their room, but they know the songs. 
They sing along to the hits "I Want It That Way," "As Long as You Love Me," "All I have to Give" and "Everybody ... RockYour Body." 
I have examples. I've been to three parties this year which have had the same wonderful band playing. Their music ranges from U2 to Lynyrd Skynyrd. However, during these par­ties there have been times when the entire crowd chants "Backstreet Boys ... Backstreet Boys ... Backstreet Boys." 
The band soon appeases their fans by play­ing a rock remix of "I Want It That Way." Of course I am highly impressed, but I know I am not alone. Almost the entire audience sings along to every word. 
Sure the song only has four sentences of lyrics to learn, but still, that means people aren't honest when they claim to change the channel as soon as it comes on the radio. 
Admit it, you turn it up and sing along. It's a good song. You don't have to be afraid to say it. 
Example number two -there is a certain group of guys here I am acquainted with who not only have a poster of the Backstreet Boys in their room, but also proudly sing the lyrics to "I Want It That Way" on their answering machine. 
In addition to this, one insisted I make a mix tape of boy bands music for him. You'd think at least these guys would admit to being fans. Oh no. 
When I called to see if I could use their names in my column, one simply responded "I am a Backstreet Boy's fan, but do not use my name." He continued saying he feared he would get "beat up" if he admitted to being a fan. 
Case and point: many are closet fans, but few are willing to display their love. 
However, I will admit I loved their concert. I will not say their lyrics are hard to compre­hend -they do not have a hidden deeper meaning. I did not walk away from their show in awe of their wonderful voices, and yes, some of their dance moves made me laugh. 
But, overall, I had fun. It was worth every penny I spent and I'd do it all over again. I am not afraid to admit it -I am a fan. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Jenn Zatorski Laura Rompf Emmett Malloy Courtney Boyle Graphics 
Sports Mandi Powell 
Molly McVoy Production 
Viewpoint Kathleen O'Brien 
Mia Nussbaum Lab Tech 
Kevin Dalum 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi,hcd Monday ,hrough Friday ~c~pr during l!X3m and vaca:lion periods. The Obsc.rv~r is a member oftht! Associated Press. Alf reproduction rtg.hts arc rcs~rved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"ft is absolutely "Being a part of the imperative that we {SOAJ protest was a address the campus way ofbeing faith.ful problem ofbinge to our call as drinking." Christians to be peo­
pie ofpeace and to Father Mark Poorman stand with those who vice president, Office of are suffering." 
Student Affairs Jan Pilarki Peacemakers member 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Minnesota students debate animal rights 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Demonized and harassed for years, University of Minnesota ani­mal researchers are taking the offensive against animal rights pro­testers by working to eliminate their most strident on-campus crit­ic. 
The Student Organization for Animal Rights was the subject of a Nov. 11 grievance filed on behalf of University researchers asking for a revocation of the activists' student group status. If successful, SOAR would lose University funding and access to facilities. 
The grievance marks the first attempt to strip a student group of its University standing. 
The complaint pointed to four specific violations of the University's Student Conduct Code. infractions of state laws and school 
Stabbings shock Flordia students 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
About 100 University of Florida students were temporarily stranded on the Florida Turnpike on Sunday as they were returning to Gainesville after the Thanksgiving weekend when one of their bus drivers was stabbed and the other was arrested for the crime. The fight, which left Daniel Posada ­owner of Gainesville-Miami-Gainesville Transport ­in serious condition Sunday night, allegedly started over a feud between the competing bus companies. Mario Jesus Perez, a driver for Miami Bus Service, was charged with aggravated assault for stabbing Posada at the West Palm Beach-Lake Worth service plaza at about 5:40 p.m., according to Florida Highway Patrol officials. Both companies run a bus service that runs hack and forth from South Florida to Gainesville on the weekends and holidays. The services are used frequently by students who live in the Miami area and by parents who use the buses to send care packages and clean laundry to Gainesville. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Accu Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

~..du-~q~G tJ m ~ .............~.. ··:.·· ·•:··•i·" ---ShoWers T•storms Ram F/umes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy CI01.Jdy 
Via AssociatodPress CJraphicsNSI 

"Legally, they have many, 
many rights, but when they 
break the law and threaten 
people -that's too far. " 
Dick Bianco assistant vice president of the Academic Heath Center 
regulations. 

Dick Bianco, assistant vice presi­dent of the Academic Health Center, filed the complaint, specifically referring to SOAR's most recent protest this fall. 
Beginning Sept. 7, Matt Bullard, a SOAR member not affiliated with the University, suspended himself from the top of Moos Tower for six days in a small tent with a banner reading "Stop Animal Torture." On 
MIT student stable after 96 foot fall 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

An MIT student who fell 96 feet down a chimney onto a pile of soot was upgraded from serious to fair condition Monday after undergoing 10 hours of surgery on her wrist and back. The 18-year-old woman, a first-year student from Pennsylvania whose name was not released, was breathing on her own, alert and communicative at Massachusetts General Hospital, Massachusetts Institute of Technology officials said. The woman did not appear to have suffered a head injury, damage to internal organs or significant spinal cord damage, MIT offi­cials said. The woman was with at least two male students about 3:30 a.m. Sunday when she fell down the six-story chimney at the Sloan School of Management. An investigation is planned, but authorities are uncertain whether foul play was involved. They had gone onto the roof to admire the view of the Boston skyline. MIT spokesman Robert Sales said there was no evidence the students had been drinking alcohol. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<" forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 30. 
30s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
0 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM 
PN•SC1r•;® (b) . High Low Shower• VI• Anoc/a/i,d Pres:,  C:Z.'.l Rain  [IT]' T•alorm•  . Flu'Tle•  [fil Snow  ~ Ice  0 Sunny  ,>½,.~; Pt. Cloudy  ~ Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  52 34 36 38 76  30 24 26 32 50  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  55 42 44 30 34  42 34 30 22 30  Portland Sacramento St. Louis Tampa Wash DC  40 55 42 72 34  30 48 36 54 26  

''Those workers are powerless; we are apathetic. This is just the reality ofthe society we live in. " 
Christine Hinze Marquette professor on sweatshop labor 
the sidewalk below, other SOAR members handed out copies of Bullard's demands and protest materials, 
Bullard is scheduled to appear in Hennepin County District Court on Dec. 21 to face charges of fourth­degree burglary and criminal tres­passing. 
During the incident, SOAR violat­ed specific provisions, including wrongful use of University facilities, disorderly conduct, violation of reg­ulations and state laws, according to Bianco's complaint. 
Bianco and his colleagues are now trying to make sure the group cannot continue unscathed from the protests. 
"Legally, they have many, many rights, but when they break the law and threaten people -that's too far," Bianco said. 
"The people in the United States are the biggest consumers. We affect other countries without even knowing il." 
Christie VanKeuren Saint Mary's senior on 'Buy Nothing' day 
page 3 


History professor to discuss new book 
Special 10 The Observer 
.lamns Turnf1r. profr.ssor of history at the Erasmus lnstitulc at Nolrn Uanrn. will Ir.ad a discussion and sign copies of' his new book, "The l.ib<!ral Education of Charles Eliot Norton," today at 7 p.m. in Urn llammcs Notre Dame Bookstore on campus. 
Turner, who joined the Notrn Dame faculty in I9<J5, rnccivod a doctoral dcgrne from Harvard in 197 5. Ile taught at tho Collegn of Charl1!ston. thn University of' 1'.fassai:husotts in Boston and llrn University of Michigan bef'orn coming to Notre 
Dame. 
llis scholarship concnrns U.S. and British intellectual history and trans-Atlantic intellectual exchange, the intellectual history of higher education, and philology as a model of knowledge in the nineteenth century. 
He has written two other books, "Heckoning with the Beast: Animals, Pain, and Humanity in the Victorian Mind" and "Without God, Without Creed: The Origins of Unbelief in America." 
The Erasmus Institute, which Turner has directed since its establishment in 1997, is committed to sup­porting research grounded in the Catholic intellectual tra­dition and focused on signifi­cant issues in contemporary scholarship. 
Cathrine Patrice Balhoff 
is 21 ! 
Happy Birthday 
Love Mom, Dad, Michael, & Rebecca 
IN DC 





Washington 
Join ND/SMC Right to Life on January 24th in DC to protest the Roe vs. Wade Decision 
Sign up in the Dining Halls 11/30 -12/2 www.nd.ed u/-prolif e/tri p/tri p/rtldc .htm 
Irish Fighting for Life 
Recycle The Obsel"Ve I", 


Do You LIKE SPORTS? Do YOU LOVE KIDS? 
Do You-WANT To GET PAID 
AND 
EARN COLLEGE CREDIT? 


National Youth Sports Program 
Needs You! Come and learn how you can be a part of 


NYSP 2000 
Wednesday, December 1st 7:00 PM or Thursday, December 2nd 8:PM at 
Center for Social Concerns Classroom 
(for additional information call 876-8394) 
Benefits include: 
-Living in residence hall on campus -Three meals pr day -Tuition credit of$1,200 -Academic Credit 

page 4 The Obmver . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 30, 1999 


We'(( He(t, Brighten vour Ho(irJav Season! 
Eating 
continued from page 1 
ing disorders: anorexia nervosa, bulimia, and compulsive overeating. 
Anorexic individuals deliber­ately starve for weight loss, have an intense and persistent fear of gaining weight, refuse to eat except in tiny portions, con­tinually diet, deny hunger and exercise compulsively. In some cases thev have excessive facial and body· hair, have a distorted body image, abnormal weight loss, are sensitive to cold, have absent or irregular menstrua­ti()n, and experience hair Joss. 
Bulimic individuals have a preoccupation with food, binge usually in secret, vomit after they binge, abuse of laxative. diuretics, diet pills or melics, compulsively exercise, have swollen salivary glands and broken blood vessels in their eyes. 
Compulsive overeatcrs also eat unusually large amount of food within a certain period of time while feeling out of control. However, they have no episodic purging behaviors such as vom­iting, diuretic, laxative or enema use, fasting or excessive exercise. 
All three disorders cause physiological problems includ­ing depression, shame, mood swings, low self esteem, with­drawal, impaired family and social relationships, "all-or­nothing" thinking, and finally perfectionism. 
At Notre Dame, about one in 10 students suffers from these disorders. "It's hard to say what percentage of the student body suffers from eating disorders," said Patrick Utz, director of the Counseling Center at Notre Dame. "Overall, given the nature of our student body, maybe lO percent have some type of eating problem." 
A formal study of this number is in the works. "We had a stud­ied conducted 10 years ago and we will be starting another one in January." Utz said. "However, the problem with eating disorders is that by their nature, they are meant to be secretive. Those suffering want to maintain a sense that they are hiding the disorder." 
Saint Mary's also lacks exact numbers. "We do not have any statistics on the exact percent­age or students with eating. dis­ordcrs. whether or not h is greater or less than the general popu!a'tion. However, it is an issue we deal with and since we are an all-women's college, most likely the percentage is greater here on our campus." 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer help to students suffering from eating o.isorders. Utz explained the counseling center's three-fold process. 
"Our first role at the counsel­ing center is to mcel with the student and decide the nature of their problem," he said. "We have a nutritionist, physician and psychiatrist on board." 
"Our secondary role is educa­tion. We go to residence halls at rector's requests and provide information to students. Third we deal with group counseling sessions of students and help students in this manner," he said. 
The program at Saint Mary's is similar. "We use a multifac­eted approach to deal with stu­dents with eating disorders," Pendley said. "They receive a physical from Health Services and also psychiatric help. If need be, we send students off campus for more help." 

Even though both of these methods are successful, group counseling sessions have not remained as useful. "Over the years we have always offered group counseling sessions, but for the past fuur semesters no one has signed up for these groups," Utz said. "At other uni­versities, there arc often the most used because they become like a support group. In the past we have had success, but it feels now like students are embarrassed." 
Saint Mary's students are also not participating. "We have tried to offer a body irn age group but have had minimal responses. Because eating dis­orders are a hidden illness, if a student joins a group at a cam­pus with a small student body, they lose anonymity." 
On tho other hand, Saint Mary's has a new process that allows concerned students to help their friends. "We encour­age students to do a 'Carefrontation' a prntty simple method students can use and we offer to coach them," Pendley said. 

"We tell them to identify spe­cific problems to make sure they have things clear in their head. Then if they are compe­tent, they can deal directly with their friend. If they choose, they can involve the hall director. It's a very non-judgmental process." 
So have these methods been effective? 
"I don't believe the problem is getting any worse," said Utz. "However, I don't think it's get­ting better either." 

McCann 
continued from page 1 
my grandfather died that same year. Not intentionally, I began to 'binge' when I was stressed. 
My athletics became more about losing weight than per­formance. I seemed to be fight­ing a never-ending battle, that ironkally, affected my athletk perfor­mance. By 
my fresh­not always as
"We had to sket.ch self­
man vear in happy as I
portraits for art class
college, I should be. 1 recorded sophomore year. The pro­still prefer to every calo­eat alone in
Jessor asked why I added 
rie I ate in a the dining hall 
ro pounds to myselfin
'diet jour­because well­nal', and every picture. " mnaning indi­weighed viduals scruti­myself on a nize my platP.
Kathleen Mccann 
very regular or encourage basis. By senior me to eat. 
that time, I had fallen into the binge-overexercisc­starve cycle. I had started mak­ing rules for myself about what I could and couldn't eat. 
When did I first know it was a problem? When I became so stressed about eating too much, my body started to purge itself. I couldn't sleep unless l had worked out; I got out of bed one night and went running at 1 a.m. in the snow. 
The possible physical side effects of eating disorders are numerous. In the past four years, I have been diagnosed with diabetic hypoglycemia, chronic fatigue, anxiety, low blood pressure and asthma. Sure, I've had the symptoms ­but no one ever asked about my dieting practices. 
How can this affect self-image'? We had to sketch self­portraits for art class sopho­more year. The professor asked why I added 10 pounds to myself in every picture. 
t'ersonally, the flf'fects led to arguments with my family, with friends and with my hoyf'riend. The depression has been, for me, the most difficult thing with which I have ever had to dnal. 
Effects are long-lasting. I still 
don·t enjoy 
food, and I'm 
My family 

relations arc better; some of my friends are beginning to undflrstand. My boyfriend had the most diflicult time accepting it, and after three years, he is still in my life but we are no longer togP.ther. 
I want to clarify what my weight is, for those of you who think that a litl.le dieting is okay. Currently, [ weigh around 120 pounds and wear a size 2. The average American woman is a size 14. 
I want everyone to realize that eating disorders are not obvious, and that those suffer­ing from them are in a private hell. You cannot force them to eat. Offering emotional support is crucial. We should be con­scious of how much we scruti­nize each other; I've heard it called the 'Notre Dame stare.' 
,,,;/Jft!.~·N1y· 

is'int~resf . 'lneir work with f · ow·ND students otthe Literary> Festival should come ry,,,oudition. Pr~pge 15~20 , minutes of·peatry or to present ofouditfon. 
December 7 Christmas Movie Marathon 
A Cfirist~at Story & Wationaf LaMpoon•r ChriS'tMcn· vacation 

9-12 at Reeker's 
www.nd.edu/-sub 



' 
'





orld 
•I 


Tuesday, Novf'mher 30, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WoRLD News BRIEFS 
Mir Space station Y2K compliant 
MOSCOW 

A Hussian spacn official said that the 1]­y,1ar-11ld Mir orbital station would not suffer any comput•ir failunis from thn Y2K bug, IT/\H­Tass rwws agenry rnporled Monday. Th1J sta­tion has hncn slatnd to lw discarded and pitcher! into tlrn Pacilk Ocean sometime next ynar. aft.or its last f'ull-tirnn (T('W nbandons th<1 140-ton crnf't in August. Evnn in normal years, ttw station has suffornd snrious accidnnts, including a firn, a collision and a malf'unction that snnl il sµi1111ing. But the year 2000 com­pu l1\r gli1eh will not bring it down r.arly. Hussian Spacn J\g:cincy spokesman Sergd (;orhunov said. lhi saitl mission control engi­mwrs. known for tlrnir ability to kenp thn ship alol'l through cataslroplins. WP.re not expecting ,UlV milknnial malfunctions, which havo bnen antidpa!Nl in rompulrrs that mistake Urn year ;woo for 11100_ 
Chile cuts warplane budget 
S/\NTI/\GO 

ThP government said Monday it was ordering tlrn. air l'orr.n to cut its budget for buying war­planes in half to $:{0O million. and to control whal it spent on the planes in the future. Bd'orn financial turmoil spread through Latin America and plungt1d Chilf1's tJconomy into a yParlong depression. the government had agr<Hid to let the air forcn spend up to $600 million to rnnnw its fleet of combat fighters. But Defonsu Minister Edmundo Perez said Monday th11 air force would have to limit future airplanf' purchases to its share of earnings from the nation's coppor exports. Each year, the armed forces receives an average of $210 million, which is split between the army, the navy and the air force. Thtl government costs could be cut by purchasing used aircraft, but its comnrnnder, G•in. Patricio Rios. has said he prefers to buy a smaller number of planes rathl'f than secondhandmodels. 
Crimes against kids 
go underreported 
WASHINGTON 

Only 28 pnrcent of violent crimes against chil­dren an\ 1·eported to police -much smaller than tlw 48 percent of violent crimes against adults that polir.•1 am told about. the .Justice Dnpartment said Monday. Even when a weapon was usnd against a child or the child was injurml, tlw police wnrn less likely to find out about such attacks than wlrnn an adult was the • victim. according to the d'1parlment's Of1icti of Juvenile Justirn and Delinquency Prevention. "Serious categorins ofjuvnniln victimization that should b11 coming to the att,mtion of policu and otlrnr authorities am not," wrote David Finkelhor and Hichard Ormrod in the office's study, "Heporting Crimes Against .Juveniles." 
lirililtdiDiM•W,1 
Dow AMEx: 
8.32.12 ]ONES t!.72 
Nusdaq: 
3421.37 

JJ 
-26.44 
NYSF: 
636.50 
-3.45 
S&P 500: Composite 1407.83 

Volume:10,947.92 -8,79 I !1,639,815,421 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CQMFMX C'OA&L C'OI\P  TtSliFe coir.  )  Cl&&ti91 •'7 ,14.  •CU:191 . Ii .75S0  PRICK 30.111  
lMAOtHO 'J"CM CT  t·l'IC  +i:l,01  +0,6513  l.. 31  
DJ:LL COMJIUT'J:11  DELL  .. 1. 89  +O. Bll!I  U.75  
A.TAT COJ!t .U.JaL COltP "-''L.tll:D t>.tOITA.t  T,.,,.,..,,.  +4,,f6 -so. 8l +2i,H  •;L56'U ..22.!000 '1"1. 7555  60, OD 1A, !D 7.H  
tlICllOIOrt' t'OJl:'t CI ¦C'O .IIYS'f'llM ¦  MIIF'!' caco  -1. Dl -0 . ..,  -o. u,o -o .075  10.19 n.n  
.UIIE,.tCA. OIIL INS  AOL  -5. :l5  -f,. ]750  79. 00  
fA.l'trYCOI.P  ..w  -1. 90  -0.9175  20.12  




Barsebaeck plant told to shutdown 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Activists turned up the heat on the World Trade Organization today, taking their message to the streets and announcing plans for mass acts of civil disobedi­ence when the ministerial conference begins tomor­row. 
This morning, police delayed opening of the Washington State Convention and Trade Center, where the confer­ence will be held. Police spokesman Gordon Compton would not give a reason for the closure, but said a SWAT team was 
SWEDEN 
sweeping the building. 
WTO spokesman Hans­Peter Werner told reporters milling around outside the building that someonu had tried to break in overnight, and the Secret Service was conducting another security sweep. Werner said he did not know how long that would take or whether it would delay a symposium in which environmental. labor and other organizations were to voice their concerns about world trade policy to organization officials. 
The convention center in downtown SeattltJ was sup­posed to open at 6 a.m. but remained closed two hours later. 
At lea.st 500 protesters ­some on stilts and wearing butterfly costumes, others wielding massive papier.­mache puppets -marched through the trendy Capitol Hill district Sunday under blue skies and record tem­peratures in the high 50s. 
Later, they protested at two stores owned by The Gap clothing retailer, saying the stores sell clothes man­ufactured under sweatshop conditions overseas. The company has denied the allegations. 
A spokesman for Direct Action Network, which sponsored the rally, said demonstrators on Tuesday intend to lie down in streets and lock themselves to fence posts or each other. 
Their goal: preventing delegates from entering the downtown convention center for the start of the talks. 
Activists even took their message to the skies. A plane trailing a banner saying "People Over Profits: Stop WTO" circled the Space Needle, which was packed with tourists on two levels. 
A total of 50,000 anti­WTO activists -with interests ranging from the environment to farm sub­sidies -arc expected to arrive here this week for what they're calling "The Battle in Seattle" or alter­nately, "Carnival against Capitalism." 

Associated Prcss 
STOCKIIOLM 

The Supreme Court ruled Monday that one of the country's oldust nuclear reactors must be shut down Lhis week. fore· ing Sweden to take the first step in its long­delayed move away f'rom nuclear power. 
The Barsebaeck plant, owned by Sydkraft AB, was supposed to go off­line last July, but years of legal battles have kept the reactor running. 
The ruling gives Sydkraft until midnight Tuesday to shut down the reactor, which began operating in 197 5. It will be the first closure since Swedes voted in a 1980 refcrcn­d um to gradually stop using nuclear power. 
The court on Monday denied Sydkraft's final appeal to postpone the shutdown pending a deci­sion by the Europ<rnn Commission. which the company had asked to review the case. 
following the court's decision, officials at the Barsebaeck plant said they would begin draining power f'rom the 600­mugawati reactor Tuusday afternoon. 
"You have to prnss the button in the afternoon to go zero (by midnight)." 
said Stieg Claesson, a 
Sydkraft spokesman. 
The other reactor at 
Barsebaeck, located 25 
miles east of Copenhagen. 
Denmark, was scheduled to 
be turn,id off by 2001. 
Sweden's remaining 10 
reactors were to be closed 
by 2010, but politicians in 
1997 abandoned that dead­
line, saying the closures 
would happen when 
replacement electricity has 
been arranged. 
Twelve nuclear reactors generate about half of the Scandinavian country's -electricity. with hydroelec­tric plants, windmills, solar panels and alternative 
sources providing the rest. 
Consumers, including energy-intensive indus­tries like lumber and newspaper companies, worried that closing nuclear plants would result in higher power costs. 

"Now we'll have to import electricity from other countries, esµecial• ly Denmark. which uses coal," Claesson said. "So it will have a negative environmental impact." 
Government officials 

-and environmentalists have argued, though, that Sweden had a surplus of electricity. They said plans to replace thn plants with alternative sources were already in the works. 
I
i. 
'. 

page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 30, 1999 



Countdown to 
J2K@ND: 

31 days 

This Week in Campus Ministry 
Extended through Wednesday, December 1 . l 03 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall 
Freshman Retreat #26 (Dec. 3-4) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Farley, Fisher, Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford, and Welsh Family 
Tuesday. November 30, 7:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 

Wednesday. December l. 8:00 pm Wilson Commons 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday. December l, 10:00-10:30 pm Walsh Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
A spirit-filled, student-led power half hour of prayer and music for students of all Christion faith traditions. 
Friday-Saturday, December 3-4 
St. loe Hall 
Freshmen Retreat #26 
Friday-Saturday. December 3-4 
Fatima Retreat Centef · 


Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Sunday. December 5, 11 :45 a.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA Rite of Welcome 

Sunday, December 5, 4:00 p.m. 
Sorin Hall Chapel 
Reioicel Mass 

Sunday. December 5. 7: 15 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Advent Lessons and Carols 
Monday. December 6, 7:00-8:45 p.m. 
Earth Science Building, Room 102 
Basilica Community Choir Rehearsal 
Monday-Friday. December 6-10 
l03 Hesburgh Library 

Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #59 
(February 4-6) Sign-Up 

Monday, December 6 through Monday, Februard 103 Hesburgh Library." 112 Badin Hal! Freshman Retreat #27 (February 11-12) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Badin. Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, 
Pasquerilla East, St. Edward's, Siegfried, Walsh, and Zahm 
RC/A -Rite ofWelcome 



On the Journey ... 
This Sunday at the 11:45 a. m. mass in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart we will recognize those members ofthe Notre Dame community who are seeking to become fully initiated into the Catholic faith community in the Rite ofWelcome. These men and women have been gathering together the past several -months to explore their faith and the Catholic Church more deeply through the RCIA process. Those who are Catechumens are seeking full initiation through the sacraments ofBaptism, Communion, and Confirmation. Those who are Candidates have already been baptized and will be received into Full Communion through the sacraments ofCommunion and Confirmation. 

Jim Cochran Everett Dittman Kevin Fuller Stephanie Hochstetler Lufei Jia James Krueger Ashlee Logan Brian Mink Abe Moore Susan Roth Kyle Shaw Mari Shiraishi Kelly Singer Kimberly Springer 
ITCandidates U 
Conrad Englehardt Morgan Farmer Lezlie Farris Tyson Fraser Rachelle-Marie Gentner Christa Guerreno Emily Hallinan Robyn Harridge Risa Hartley-Werner Tara Langman Matt Mafl1mak Michael Mancuso Katie Meierotto 
Cory Neal Stephanie Newcom Alexis Nussbaum James O'Connell Andrea Odicino Kari O'Neil Gina Pierson Dylan Reed Renita Riley William Roth Bil Westberry Melissa Yeazel 

Good Stuff to Know 

Eucharistic Adoration 
During the academic year, Campus Ministry sponsors a 24-hour 
period of Eucharistic Adoration beginning with Mass at 11 :30 pm 
on Monday nights and ending at 10:00 pm on Tuesday nights, in 
Fisher Hall Chapel. 


. '' ' 
' 
Tuesday, December 30, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
A Futon Built Just the Way You Want It! 
500+ futon cover fabrics 20+ futon frame styles 8 grades of futon mattresses 
Fits Any Space and Every Budget! 
COVER ME with a NEW FUTON COVER! Prices start at just $29! 

FUTON FACTORY 
DAY BED BY NIGHT 

219-273-2660 
Got news? Call 631-5323. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
. Blood drive: 

Arnold Air Society, the service group of the Air Force ROTC, is sponsoring a blood drive today from 9 a.m. to 3 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Hoom of the Lafortune Stud(rnt Center. 
The blood drive benefits a 10-ycar-old girl suffering from a rare form of liver cancer. The girl's parents are both Notre Dame graduates and hope to raise 1000 pints of blood through this drive. · 
. New employees relations director: 
Sarah Misner has been named director of ernployeo relations and development in the human resourc1is department at Notre Dame. 
She joined the University in 1996 as manager for train­ing and development in human resources. lier responsi­bilities have included the research, design and facilita­tion of training and development programs for manageri­al and staff empJoyees and faculty 
. New chaired professorship: 

· A chaired professorship in business ethics will be created at Notre Dame by a bequest in the names of John and Mary Ryan. Ryan was a founding trustee of Notre Dame from 1967 until his death in 1995. 
Where will · Dozens of Internships and Teaching Positions are available in countries including: Ireland, England, Germany, Chile, Russia, and Estonia with companies including: Bank of Ireland, First Financial, Honeywell, and Waterford Crystal Limited Summer 2000 Internships/SchoolsInformation Night . , Wednesday, December 1st 7:00PM Room LOSO College ofBusiness Administration NDSCIBD Notre Dame Student Council on lnternationl Business Development A student organization promoting ''Peace through Commerce''  

.. 
• I• 




VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Tuesday, November 30, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norrc Oame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Micbelle Krupa 

MA.Nt.G!NG EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Rpn  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pctdk  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VrnwrmNT EunoR: Colleen Gflughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENF. EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT M,\RY's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDITOR: Kevm Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret l-luelat 

S\'STEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: F.t,k Kushm 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane 
· GRAPH!~ EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GFNERAL INFO...........G31-747I FAX............................................................. 631-6927 MYERTISING.....................................63 l -6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORI.Assr. ME....................631-454 I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS................................................... .......631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewPoint. l@nd.edu SP0RTS..............................:-.........................631-4543 observer.sports.l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARY's............................... : ............. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, rdiews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasrs 
weekly student reviews 
advcnisc for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial Cimpus coverage 
archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afi:er 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the studenrs ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ecfoo,ial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on comen t. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofrbe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l..ctcers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~stions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelle Km.pa. 
AUSTIN, Texas -Knowing the ori­gins of football explains a lot about its karma. A millennium ago, when camp dogs fought over the scraps of an ancient huntsman's kill, children 


Khy Chapman
thrilled by the vicious spectacle would ape the 
The Daily 
wrestling beasts. As 
Texan
technology pro­gressed; men fash­ioned balls from the stomachs of pigs and goats, stuffed them with straw or fur and developed games of toss and tumble with them. The most popular games involved fighting for control of the ball and attempting to take it to some goal. Brutality and death were en.couraged. 
This is the pedigree of modern foot­ball. 
For the most part, however, American football dates to 1906 when rule changes "civilized" the brutal sport. The disastrous college season of 1905 witnessed 18 deaths and 159 cru­cial injuries on the gridiron. A public uproar ensued and President Theodore Roosevelt himself stepped in to save the game. His defense came as no sur­prise, since he was elected for his famed soldiering, gamesmanship and prowess as a hunter. Despite changes, though, football has always remained -at heart -a blood sport. 
According to the National Center for Catastrophic Sports Injury Research, 155 deaths resulted from injuries received playing football in American high schools between 1982 and 1998. That's about 10 a year. Colleges, bfling fewer in number, scored 24 field kills during the same time. No single sport save boxing even comes close -not skiing, not motor sports, not even hockey. 


If its destruction were limited to the field, arguing football's relative safety might be a moot point: Let those who play suffer the consequences. But, just as the prehistoric children aped wild dogs, inevitably football fans aped the players. We need look no further than this year's biggest news stories to see how the violence too often goes out of bounds. 
Two months ago in Illinois, several "average" boys, probably egged on by the destruction on the fields, took it to the stands. Their resulting two-year suspension from school for fighting and "mob action" left millions wondering: Why the double standard? Football not only legitimizes public violence but monopolizes it as well. 
When two boys walked into a high school in Columbine, Colo., on a killing rampage, they selected football players as targets. It was the idolatry of the players they sought to dismiss. Their sentiment, extreme and misguided as it was, was not new. The first Roman combats were derived from Etruscan funeral games in which mortal combat provided companions for the deceased. It was the idolatry of the games, even more than their brutality, that horri­fied Christian protesters·. Compare this to modern Christians in Santa Fe, Texas, invoking prayers to begin foot­ball games and any logic gets sacked by irony. 
Didn't Moses have a low opinion of trophies and wasn't he God's referee? The University of Texas, too, has 
been embroiled in controversy over the game as season after season sees the stadium turned from an institution that once celebrated our egalitarian ideals into one which segregates fans by age, influence and tax bracket. Nowher.e but in the ubiquitous festering sore of the football stadium could such hypocrisy multiply in the first country to outlaw aristocracy -at least not so publicly. 
Try as we might to ignore its barbar­ic roots, modern football is plastic­coated, choreographed savagery -the same dogfight over skulls and spleens it always has been. Televised games are edited, censored and neatly pack­aged. Cameras focus on the ball, not the blood. Live, the fans sit too far away to hear the cries of agony, the crushing of bones and the cursing of mothers. The ancient huntsmen's prey, once regal foes, are silhouette icons on helmets, uniform in size and civility, their power usurped and assimilated yet as plastic as the grass they graze on. 
Fortunately, while some cavemen pulled sticks and bones from the fire to play with, others used them to write and pass on knowledge. In many ways, nothing's changed. That's how karma works. 
Khy C'hapman is an education senior. at the University of Texas at Austin. This column originally ran November 29, 1999, and is reprinted here courtesy of the U-W/RE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necces­sarily those of The Observer. 

DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
I fOUND A BOOK ABOUT A5TRAL PROJECTION.  I'M GONNA TRY THIS DURING OUR. MEETING .  DOES ANYONE v.R\NT TO SWITCH CHAIRS?  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ wish that every human life might be pure transparent freedom." 
Simone de Beauvoir 
author 


VIEWPOINT 
Novt:mher 30, 1999 OBSERVER p:ige 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Irish Guard does what it can 
Last week Mikt: Speaker (6-fooL-3 and 220 pounds) wrnt11 of an unfortunate incident prior to Urn HC garrw (Th!' ObsorvN, Nov. 2:n !\ member of Irish Guard mowcl Mr. Spoakor's liancce out of llw way of the b1tnd's parado to the stadium. Mr. Spr.uker slated that Jess was merely "stand­ing on Llw curb," when tlrn Guard, acting "like Limy ar11 God's gill to thf' universe," shouted "movn," and then shoved her. 
As a sludnnt who had tlw privil!'!{O of being an Irish Guard 111m11bN for two years I understand lirsL-hund ltrnL Lim Irish (iuurd has not been annointnd by Cod. Furthormore. nomi of us havo 1ivt'r smm or nwl Mr. Sp<iakor, so I do nol know how he has witm:sscd our alleged egolism. So lnt's talk about a situation based in fact, not slan­dnr. 
Whal Mr. Spnaknr ancl many oilrnr people do not know ahoul Llw Irish C,uard is that wo havn a responsibility to Urn band and to the fans. Wo must km•p all fans off the sidewalks and curbs al11n~ the path to tlw stadium. ff p1~nple are in Urn way band mcmlrnrs or fans may be injured. 
We do not seek to shove small liancccs, in fact, we do not wish t() yell at or push anyone at all. That is why there arc four socurity guards and numerous band assistants who instruct the fans to move boforc we arc anywhere close to them. By the time the lrish Guard reaches any particu­lar fan. lime is running out and that fan must move. for his or her safety as well as for the safety of the band. I wish that Mr. Speaker's liancee had listened to the numerous people who told her to move before the Irish Guard arrivnd ... bul she didn'L. I find it very irresponsible of Mr. Speaker to blame this situalion on the Irish Guard, b1Jcause we were simply doing our jobs. And nexl time, if there is a person who is "6­foot-3, 220 pounds and standing on the curb," unfortunately Im will neod to move as well. 
RickSaxen 
Senior, offcampus November 26, 1999 


Gay alum calls for true human rights 
Tim Catholic Church has of'tnn demonstrated tlrn brnatlU1 of its (·.om passion anti forgivenes­sas rnprcsented by its individuals and its itdministration. The I\X1t111ples are many, but to dPscrilw a few: forgivmrnss and support or pri11sls who s1ixually assault children. do not adhere to vows or celibacy, or steal money from tlw Church coffers (tho Nov. 23, 1999, edition of' tlw tdevision show "Dateline" is a prime nxam pie of the last). 
llow1wnr. if you am outside of the employ of th1• Catholic Church or do not agree with or conform to its ruins and beliefs you am not affordml such compassion, understanding and acniplancP. Wors<~ yet. the Church ignores your vi1iws and attempts to suppress your voiCIL 
I finally rnachcd a point in my career when I was lo mak11 a subslantial contribution to Notrn Dame's annual fund drive. I had just writl!m the clrnck and only nend11d a stamp bnforn mailing. That is, until I learned about a rec,rnt Univnrsity controversy. 
It app1mrs that Notre Dame's administration 
luted to fulfill its own needs can or will dimin­ish or obviate the love we had for each other. I hope that others, gay or straight, will have the opportunity to experience a similar emotional and spiritual bond. It is truly wonder[ul. 
Por those of you who are gay or lesbian out there reading this, don't let Notre Dame's cen­sorship make you feel isolated or alone. The gay and lesbian alumni group does exist. Gays and lesbians on campus do exist. Gays and les­bians can lead successful, fulfilling lives with loving relationships like mine. 
But we don't have rights. We do experience discrimination. We are forbidden to be legally married. We do not generally have rights with respect to partner health care. As I recently experienced, we are not considered spouses or next-of-kin when our partners die unless a number of legal steps are taken. Otherwise, the victim's family is next-of-kin and they control funeral and estate issues. At a time when you are experiencing the loss of a partner, it is offensive and emotionally bruising to not have that relationship or your rights as a partner 
has clncidml to c1ms11r an ad submitted to The Obscrvnr l'rom the Nolrn Dame gay and lnsbian alumni group. lntnrnslingly, thn Univ1\rsity conlri!Juttis only 15 percent of llrn paper's budget hut senms lo want 100 percent editorial control in certain arnas. 
/Hditor·s Nnle: The llniversily col!Pcls studt'nl subscription ft•c•s, which amount lo 15 pa­
n•nl of Tlw 0/Jser!'er's budget. 
'f'lw ll11i1>ersily does nor pro­
11ide any morwy in the form of contrilmtions, grants or fund­
iny lo The 0/,i,wnwr. / Dons the University think Lhal censor­ship prornot(JS compassion'? Does it trnlifwn that controlling 0110 uwdia uutlflt will make it go nw11y'? Dons it f'nnl it is set­
ting an appropriatn example as we enter lhe now millennium for tho children or the world hy encouraging prnjt1dic1• rather t.han openness to diversity? 
As a 37-ynar-olcl gay man, I am amazod at tho Chureh's, and now Nolrn Damc's, contin­ued ignorance and pn~judicns. I am no longer a practicing Catholic or makn any claims to it <ltw to llw Church's continued policy of "Catholic rights" and not human rights:To me, I.hat is not a religion but a political body. 
l was in a loving relationship until my domes­tic partner, a successful doctor specializing in IIIV/AIDS cam, recently passed away from 1IIV/AIDS-rel«ted complications. No Church, government or any other artificial body insti­
"Ifinally reached a point in my career when I was to make a substantial contribution to Notre Dame's annual Jund drive. I hadjust written the check and only needed a stamp before mailing. That is, until I learned about a recent University controversy.,. 
recognized by the Church, the government, and in some cases, society. 
To all of you, regardless of sexual orientation or reli­gion or ethnicity or any other variable, do not sup­port or accept Notre Dame's censorship. its ignorance and its lack of compassion and understanding. If you do not think for yourself and speak up, the societal ten­sions and prejudicial views will merely extend into the next generation and the new millenium. Are we will­ing 1.o lose another child like Mathew Shepherd? 
To the University of Notre Dame administration, I am sure there will be many 
organizations that will thank you once they receive my contributions that were originally intended for you. I don't expect you to change your position because of this letter or because of the money. I do expect you to do what is right for humankind. Isn't that what you am supposed to be all about anyway? 
David A. Pasquel Notre Dame Class of 1984 Noven,bcr 24, 1999 
WRC serves whole community well 
We knew why hll visited the center. We knew why he and 
his cohort would not leave their names on the guest list pro­
vided for those attending the center's Open House on 
November 3. We anticipated an attempt by Scan Vinck to 
trump up questionable evidence upon which to launch yet 
another inquisition against the Women's Resource Contor. 
Our assumption was proven correct upon our reading of 
Vinck's article entitled, "WHC Opposes the Catholic Mission" 
(The Observer, Nov.16). 

Vinck's mini-investigation was apparently far less produc­
tive than he would have hoped. His second McCarthy-like 
indictment of the Women's Hesource Cenh1r is basnd on 
severely precarious grounds. Vinck suggests that tho 
University "exercise its pastoral responsibility" and comman­
deer the center because of the presence of a particular pam­
phlet produced by NOW, the National Organization for 
Women, that was displayed there during the time of his inves­
tigation. The material in question, Vinck charges, was 
"heralding support for legalized abortion." 
Considering the substantial interest Vinck uxhibited in the 
pamphlet, members of the WHC were startled at how cgrn­
giously Vinck had misinterpreted its contents. Th!l pamphlet 
offered theoretical anecdotes of gross social injustices that 
directly affect numerous Americans, including Catholics, 
everyday. Some of the injustices addressed mentioned include 
rape, inadequate family leave, sex discrimination, race dis­
crimination, and poor health care. The pamphlet was, as 
Vinck alleges, entitled "Together We Can Change the World," 
an obvious proposal that the aforementioned social injustices 
endemic to our society must be addressed. This was the fun­
damental and primary idea expressed by the NOW-issued 
pamphlet. If this message was in any way "incendiary," as 
Vinck charged, consider the following excerpt form the 
Second Vatican Council's Gaudeum et Spes. "The social ordnr 
requires constant improvement. It must be founded on truth, 
built on justice, and animated by love; in freedom it should 
grow everyday toward a more humane balance. An improve­
ment in altitudes and widespread changes in socir.ty will have 
to take place if these objectives are to be gained." This state­
ment hardly insinuates that calls to change our social struc­
ture are in any way inflammatory or anti-Catholic. 
Additionally, the pamphlet in no way suggested that on11 
endorse abortion nor did it offer any information as to how 
one might be obtained. It was even completely and utterly 
lacking any type of theoretical discussion of abortion. It rnusL 
also be said that it is quite impossible for the WRC to be 
WRONG on the issue of abortion considering its total disasso­
ciation with the issue. The WHC does not take a stance on 
abortion either politically or morally. It doesn't even addrnss 
the issue. 

The WRC remains true to its mission of serving as a 
resource for all members of the Notre Damu community. We 
actively celebrate a diversity of races, classes, ages, political 
beliefs, lifestyles, and physical abilities as our organization·s 
constitution states. We present the books, articles. and othor 
informational materials found in the center as objectively as 
possible in hopes that those who consult our resources may 
form their own responsible and freely-formed opinions on the 
subjects addressed by them. It was quite irresponsible for 
Vinck to associate NOW's political views on those issues that 
the WRC doesn't even address, as being part of the WHC's 
mission or as being views that are expressed or promoted by 
the WHC itself. 

Vinck's allegation that the WHC is a "clearinghouse for lnfl­
wing propaganda" is an unfounded and unwarranted as his 
plea for an investigation of our organization. There are no 
prerequisites for WHC volunteers that require them to con­
form to or adopt particular political beliefs or ideologies. We 
do not accept or reject materials based solely on its partisan 
nature. However, althou!{h we do embrace a variety of politi­
cal beliefs, we do not embrace all political bclids. W<i hopi:1 lo 
discourage those views that some would label as "political" 
which direct hatred or disdain toward individuals based on 
their race, sex, class, sexual orientation or religious affilia­
tion. We reject such attitudes whether they are profossed by 
someone who would align themselves with the left-wing or 
the right-wing. Creating awareness with regard to the exis­
tence of such attitudes is one of the Center's driving goals. 
I do sincerely hope that the Nov. 16 article about Urn 
Women's Resource Center is the last of its nature. I hope thaL 
this article has enumerated and clarified the noble purposes 
of the Women's Resourcn Cent.er. I hopn that our organization 
might remain unfettered by an onslaught of misinformation. 
Pinally, though, I hope that thn WHC be permitted and 
encouraged to pursue its goal of fostr.ring an environment 
that is pro-women. pro-men, and pro-humanity. 
Dawn Kennedy 

Volunteer, Women's Resource Center 
Novemher 2(,, I 'l9'l 



C 
O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Tuesday, November 30, 1999 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Another DMB live album is just 'too much' 
By GEOFFREY RAHIE 
Scene Music Critic 
Most bands try to put out albums once cverv two vcars or so. Some bands take even· longer·. trying to incorporate new sounds and styles into their music. Well consider this: Since 1997, the Dave Matthews Band has released four full­length albums. 1998's Before These Crowded Streets was an excellent studio album. while all the rest were live. By releasing all of these products, it is safe to say the band has now amassed the wealth to buy a few small countries in Europe. Hut it also shows that the boys have a prntty big commitment to their hardcore fans. The fourth album released in two vears is a double-disc. live show from East Rutherford, N.J., entitled Listener Supported. The first disc is marred by either long renditions of standard DMB songs or under-tempoed tracks that lose their promise. It start'> off with a long, drawn out musical intro. Don't be fooled though: Thi<; intro is merely the two opening chords of "Pantala Naga Pampa." 

The track is great to listen to while on a date -if you wanted your lovely date to know you were are the most boring person on earth. Seriously. it is basically a wasted track that begs to be skipped over. However, it introduces the listener to the guest keyboard player of the show, Butch Taylor. Taylor flexes his musical muscles all over the CD, but his playing only serves as elevator music on the "Intro." 
This leads into the combo of "Pantala Naga Pampa" and "Ha.punzel." By the mid­dle of "Rapunzel" it would not be unusual lo find oneself falling asleep. This is such a shame because the song is unique for the band. llowover, the tempo drags through­out the entire track. The rare "#36" also seems way too slow for its m,vn good. 
The band moves on to obnoxiously long renditions. This is usually a staple of DMB shows and, for the most part, Lo; very excit­ing. However, the jam on "Jimi Thing," a song hailed by DMB enthusiasts as "epic" and "awesome," is really neither of these. DMB fanatics also love the song "#36," which is usually passed over by the band at shows. They should keep passing up on it. 
Nothing really goes on in this song, the riff repeats over and over and nothing exciting ever really happens. But an obses­sive DMB fan will say it is his or her favorite song. \l\'hy? Probably because it is thought of as an obscure DMB song and they want to impress people with their knowledge and elitist attitude. 
The first disc is not entirely horrible. "#41" is very long, but it is also very good. The band members seem to capture the emotion of the song with their respective instruments. "The Stone" is a driving num­ber that is wicked and beautiful at the same time. Although overplayed to death, "Crash Into Me" is actually a refreshing break from the monotony going on with the rest of the disc. Thank goodness for second chances. 
The second disc of "Listener Supported" tries to make up for the sub-par first disc, and almost pulls it off. Mixed on this half of the album are unique versions of stan­dards, three unreleased concert favorites and some covers. 

"Too Much" kicks off the disc, and although the song is usually not great, Butch Taylor adds some cool funk key­board that makes the track worthwhile. He also shows great skill on the 14-minutc long "Two Step." This track also shows the greatness of drummer Carter Beauford, attacking his snare with a vengeance. 
"Don't Drink the Water" and "Stay" are pretty forgettable however. Dave kicks off the encore with a brief tease of the amaz­ing original "#40." The short track is a blessing to obsessive fans. But it will also anger people because it is only played for a minute. Hopefully a full version will make its way to the public soon enough. 
The full band has never released two other standout tracks: "Granny" and "True Reflections." The exhilarating "Granny" is highlighted by three gospel vocalists and shows the band doing what it does best: having fun. "True Reflections," written by the violinist Boyd Tinsley, is one of' the greatest songs ever performed by the band. Tinsley takes over the lnad vocal job with his dflep soulful voice that highly con­trasts with Matthews' rang11. Thn backup singers also do a fine job. 
"Long Black Veil," a song made famous by Johnny Cash, is played near the end ol' the second disc and might bn one of' tlrn best covnr songs ever chosnn by the band. The mix of reflective music and heart­wrenching lyrics makes the song a winner. 
The show ends as the band way too fre­quently closes shows -with Dylan's "All Along the Watchtower." The song is good, but enough already. Do not play this song cvnr again! 
DMB is such a great group. Thfly write great shows, make great albums, and put on great shows. But all great groups slip up every now and again, right? This isn't a horrible CD, but looking at the sflt-list it could have been a lot better. Some of the jamming on the first disc could have been substituted for an extra song. We don't always get what we want hownver. 
UPCOMING CONCERTS 

South Bend 

Doc Brown/Transoms Sen•orBar ·Dec. ·I Umphrey•s McGee Benchwarmers Dec. I 
The Factory Dec. 11 
Madison Oyscer Dec. 17 Ted Nuaen1 Heartland Dec. 20 
Indianapolis 
lndiao Girls Murac Theatre Dec. 7 Umphrey•s McGee The Patio Dec. 10 Billy Joel Conseco Dec. 14 John Mellencamp Conseco Dec. i I 

Chicago 
Gress Allman House of Blues Dec. I • 2 scina Chicaao Theatre Dec. 1•4 UmphreY's McGee Brother Jimmy•s Dec. 4 Umphrey•s McGee Naaoo•s Dec. 18 Collec1iYe Soul House •• Blues Dec. ii I Freddy Jones Band VIie Theaire Qec. I I 

NEW RELEASES 




Today 
Goodie Mob -World Party Guns II' Roses -Llive Era 1987-9J l·S11in -My Soul, My Llife Paul McCanney -Working Classical Cl-Tip -Amplified Rakim -The Master Sisq,ao -Unleash the Dragon 


December 7 
Sheryl Crow • Live Cypress HHI -Los Grandes ExHos En Espanol Juvenile • Tha G•Code Mandy Moore -So Real Narilyn Manson • Marilyn Manson Giff Set Methods of Mayhem -: Methods of Mayhem The No1:orious a.1.G. -Born Again 







NSIDER 
TutsJay, November 30, 1999 OBSERVER Notre Dame at Stanford 
-::-:==--=--=--=--=--=--=--=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=--=-=-=--=--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=-:===================-:·-==-:.::-:..:---::--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=­

By BRIAN KESSLER 
5ports Edi1nr 
PALO ALTO. Calif. 

Nolrn llanHi had absolutely nothing to play for Saturday and it showed in tlw lirst 88 snconds. 
With its bowl hoµes dashed and a wi1u1i11g record out of the question, Notrn Danw watclwd Stanford jump to a 14-point lead with a <,2-yard bomb to Troy Walt!'rs and a 37-yard fumble n\Lurn for a touchdown by Aaron Focht in tlrn opening minute and a half'. 
IL was tlw i:ulmin,1tion of a season in which PVl\rything se,imcd to go wrong. 
But tlw Irish put tlw fight back in 1.lwir name and played their way back into tlw game with the Hose Bowl hound Cardinal. only to watch in dis­appoint1rnmt as Mike Biselli's fourth finl(I goal of the game -a 22 yarder -sailml through llrn uprights as time nxpirnd. 
"I'm proud or this football team," fwacl coarh Bob Davin ,;aid following llw loss. "To be down 17-0 with the cireumstanccs the way tlwy wern and come back shows a tremendous amount ol' charncwr and that's sonrn­thing wn can build (Ill " 
ThP Irish will have to do a lot of b11ildirq~ in llrn offseason after a 5-7 season. It was Notrn Dame's first los­ing season since 1986 and its first seven-loss season since 1963. 
The Cardinal were able to throw against the Irish all evening. Todd llusak completed 24-of-H throws for 334 yards and two touchdowns, including a 38 yarder to Walters. 
Walters set the Pac-10 record with 1,456 receiving yards this season, breaking the mark of 1,373 set by USC's Johnny Morton in 1993. 
Stanford backup Joe Borchard was 4-for-4 for 51 yards and also rusirnd for a score. 
The Irish were unable to get pres­sure on the Cardinal quarterbacks, but that was just one of the problems. 
"When you can't cover them, it's 
· hard," Da~ie said. Heal hard. Walters had eight catches for 183 yards and Dellonnie Pitts grabbed six for 85 yards. Still the Irish were able to make a game of it. Tony Fisher had a big day, rushing and receiving. lie scored on touchdown runs of one and nine yards and caught a 42-ynrd pass for a third score. "Basically once I knew I had the line­backer on me, I know Jarious was going to throw it to me," Fisher said of the touchdown catch. "Fortunately, I was wide open. No ono was covering me and I had an open way to the touchdown." 
The sophomore tailback finished with 107 yards rushing on 19 carries and also had a team high three recep­tions for 68 yards. 
Julius Jones had 66 yards on the ground on nine carries and his 24-yard touchdown run gave the Irish a 29-23 lead late in the third quarter: Notre Dame threatened to put more points on the board on its next offensive series, but Jim Sanson's 42-yard field goal was blocked. 
"He kicked the ball this high [about three feet off the ground]." Davie said. "But the two plays before that we ran the boot and the tight end .Jabari llalloway was wide open in the flat, no one was within 15 yards of him. We come back on third down and over­throw the curl that's wide open. So we shouldn't even have had to kick the fie Id goal." 
Stanford took a 37-29 lead midway through fourth quarter' after Walters' second touchdown of the game and Burchard's two-yard scoring run. 
With time running out on the Irish, Rocky Boiman recovered a fumble and Notre Dame was back in business. 
"I just saw it there," Boiman said. "We were happy to get that fumble recovery. It was big for the team. It helped change the game, but unfortu­nate I y we couldn't get a little bit more." 
Seven plays and 32 yards later, 
llalloway knelt in the end zone after a five-yard touchdown reception. Joey Getherall scored the two-point conv11r­sion on a reverse, but Stanford prn­vailed after a 1:32 drive that ended with Biselli's game winner. 
"I'm encouraged," Davie said. "Down here at the end of' tho game, down eight and Stanford has tlrn ball. we comeback and we have a chance to win. So thern's a lot of positivn things." 
Arnaz Battle split time with Jarious Jackson at quarterback. 
°Jackson completed 9-o f-1 9 passes for 167 yards and two touchdowns in his final game in a Notre Dame uni­form. lie finished tlrn season with school records in completions { 1 84 ). attempts (316) and yards passing (2,753). 
Battle rushed the ball six times for 21 yards and was 2-for-3 passing for 35 yards. 
"I felt comfortable and was just try­ing to go out them have fun and try to make something happen," hn said. "We kind of struggled. I went out tlwre and got the offenso going. We worn able to score and thon Jarious came back in and made somn big plays and did a good job." 
"l thought he played pretty well." Davie said. "llo led us on a touchdown drivn and did some good things. That's going to be the huge point for this foot­ball team next year." 


quote of the game
player of the game 
stat of the game 
472 yards of offense

Todd Husak 
"! don't ever want 
The Irish defense struggled 

The Stanford quarterback 
to be 5-7 again" 
again, as it has all season.

completed 24-of-34 passes 
Bob Davie 
Husak torched 

for 334 yards 
Irish head coach 
the Irish secondary. 

and two wuchdowns. 

'' 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 30, 1999 
report card 
quarterbacks: Jackson wasn't the8-sharpest he's been, but he put the Irish in a position to win. Battle made the most ofhi.<; opporlltnities. 
8+ 
running backs: The Irish rushing attack finally had a breakthrough game after struggling in recent weeks. 
Fisher ran for 107 yards and Jones 
picked up 66. 
C 
receivers: When a running back leads the team with three receptions 
for 68 yards. the receivers aren't doing their job. 
offensive line: The men in the trenches 
8+ 
performed well. considering they were without four linemen who 
started this season. 
8-
defensive line: Lack ofa pass rush gave I /usak time to read the defense and find open receiners. The D-line 
did stuffthe Cardinal ground game. 
8-
linebackers: Roiman had a key fumbfe recovery lale in the game. bul Denman 's roughin_q the passer helped 
put Stanford in position for a game 
winning field goal. 
C-
defensive backs: Jefferson and the rest of the Irish secondary were picked apart by Husak. Harper had an 
interception. 
C 
special teams: Jones had some good 
returns, but fumbled on one. 
Sanson's lone field goal attempt 
was blocked. Coverage was good. 
C 
coaching: Ir's hard to motivate a team that has nothing to play for and trails by 17 points early. Davie was able to. 
but came up on the short again. 
overall: Stanford wasn't too impressive, but it managed to beat Notre Dame. 
2.48 
adding up the nulllbers 
field goals by Stanford's Mike Biselli, including 
4
a game-winning 22-yarder 
88 
seconds it took Stanford to score 14 points 
Irish turnovers in the first 7 minutes, 26 seconds 
3
of the game 
27 5 2 0 empty 
seats at Stanford Stadium , for the game 
losses under Bob Davie -the 
16 
second most for a third-year Irish head coach 
7 
consecutive road losses 
for the Irish 
last lime Notre Oame 
lost seven games in a 
1963
season 
0 
number of season ending victories for Notre Dame in the past six 
seasons 

IRISH INSIGHT 

PALO ALTO, Calif. 
As Stanford head coach Tyrone Willingham headed oIT the field after ending his team's regular season on a positive note, a renowned former Cardinal came up to congratulate him -profes­
sional golfer Tiger Woods. 
It was an almost ironic turn of events -a current leader in one sport reveling in a victory over a 

similar paceset­
Bill Hart
ter in another, the Fighting 
Irish football 
Associate
team. 
Sports Editor
Many Notre Dame fans would not prob­ably use that word to describe this year's Irish. After all, this was a sea­son which started with such high hopes, only to end with a seven-loss season, their first since 1963. 
But for head coach Bob Davie, the final results overshadowed the team's real play. 
''I'm encouraged by the character of this team," he said. "They fought their butts off, and it's unfortunate that the seni.ors have got to leave 5­
7." 
It is true that tho Irish had to over­come numerous obstacles through­
out the season, some of which turned out to be insurmountable. 
The regular season schedule included eight bowl teams, including Rose Bowl-bound Stanford and probable Orange Bowl pick Michigan. 
Throughout the regular season, the Irish struggled with numerous injuries that weakened positions that were already shallow and expe­rienced. Those injuries became even more serious with losses due to con­flicts off the field. 
This season also displayed the consistent threat of NCAA sanctions and probation from the Dunbar inci­dent, which hung over the team like a dark cloud and remains unre­solved even after the season has ended. 
Between all these factors, it seemed like the fabled "Luck of the Irish" disappeared. Eight times this season, Notre Dame played a game down to the wire. Six of those times. things didn't go its way. 
"The one thing I've seen from this season," Davie recollected. "'When you turn the ball over. and can't cover, and give up passes ... it doesn't matter how good you am. you can't win." 
Hut the greatest problem that the Irish faced this year, as it has been the case for many years, is the con­flict between keeping a football powerhouse intact while maintain­ing the academic and ethical stan­dards of Notre Dame. 
By holding to these standards since the 1930s, the Irish have not only made themselves a household name both on and off the field, but also possibly saved collegiate sports as we know it. 
During the scandalous postwar years when basketball fixing and football cheating were rampant. the ideal that Notre Dame presented kept big-time college sports intact. 
But in today's overcommercialized collegiate world, where the defend­ing national football champions have a 27 percent graduation rate since 1991 and the current top­ranked basketball team has not had a player graduate on time in the past 10 years, it looks as if for some schools tlrn .~urrent credo is "victory at any cost. 
This phrase, however, could never apply to Notre Dame. 
As a new century of collegiate ath­letics is set to dawn, Davie must regain the confidencn of Irish fans by returning the Irish to college football's nlite, while maintaining Notre Dame's ironclad standards. 
Some may question wlrntlrnr thmrn objectives are conflicting. but being the head coach under the Golden Dome isn't the most pressure-fillnd job in collf1giate football ror nothing. 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not rzeces­sarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
' -I 

'lttl'.'sday, November 30, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
---_-_-_-_-__:--:-=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=--===================================================================================== 
Loss to Stanford mirrors '99 season 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN A""1.1111 Spot11 Fdiwr 
.Just a lypi<'.,tl garnn for tlw 19<.J<J Fighting Irish l'ootball t1•a111, 
Notre~ llanw lwackd to Urn kick-off at Slanford short 11u11wrous playnrs, thnn gav1• Stanford tlH\ Ntrly 17-0 advantagn hy turning Uw ball over and allowing big plays by lhn opposition. 
ThP Irish Uwn stagi1d a major r,ome­hark. IP,iving lhn victory hanging in ilw lmlan1•p until a last-sncond field goal by tlw Cardinal dropp<'<I thn Irish to 5-7. 011 l111i losing nnd of' anotlrnr closn ganw. 
"To he clown 17-nothing and como hack, I thirll,, shows a tr11mendous ammmt of' rlruradcr." h1•ad coach Boh Davie said. "That's tho character that I "v1• SPt•n itll ynar long l'rom this football ll'alll, 
"Tlw ollwr thing I've s(icn all y£mr is that wlw11 vou turn the football ov1w," l)aviP add,:d. "Wh1•11 you can't ('OVlW, wht>11 you givn up big passes and you 'iPlf-dc•struc:t. n littln hit with pnnaltim;, it d1msn't matlrlr how much pf'l'ort you giv1i, you ca11·1. win, you cm1't win." 
Stanford hl,iw the conl11st widn open in tlw f'irst two minul.(•s of thP first quartPr. It scurPd on tlw snr-ond play of thl' ga1111• with a (12-yard t.ourhdown pass l'rom quartorback Todd Husak lo rp1•1•ivN Troy Walt1irs. followfld by a :17-yard l'umblP nicovnry f"or a touch­down hy Aaron Focht. 
Thi' Irish usnd a clnplntnd rostnr a~ai11st tlw Cardinal, l)nf'pnsive end (;rant Irons. tailback Terrance lloward. [I'll lal"kln Jordan Black. right ta<'.kle John TPasdale and left iuard ,li111 .lorws WPrP among the players out 
willr injuri«'s, 
Taillia1·k Tonv Driv1•r and cornnrback llrnck Williams· wnn• suspPnclPd f"or thn sPasmi. SPnior rla11kPr Haki Nelson. listl'd in tl11• starting lineup, also fail<'d to rnnk1• an appParan£"(' in thn game. 
"'WP r,11111• out to this football ganlf\, Wt' had ninf' starlPrs not l'VPll on this trip," llavil' said. "Wn've got a lot ol' inj11riPs. \Vp'yp got sonrn players that arpn't l111n• that should be l'or dif'forPnt r1•aso11s. It's tlw tPam's rnsponsibility and obligation that all of our membt\l'S of Ill!' [Pam go through this ll<'X1. sna-coming out being seventeen down," Against Oklahoma in early October, A .Jim Sanson field goal attempt was 
,, 
SOil. sophomore quarterback Arnaz Battle Notre Dame turned a 30-14 third-quar­blocked in the third quarter, and 
1lPspit1• llw missing play1irs, the Irish said, "But we kept fighting and we ter deficit into a 34-30 win. penalties hurt the Irish late in tho con­daw1•d tl11\ir way hack lo within two at canw back and had a chance to win the "We thought we had a real good test, echoing the team's season-long half'tinw, and to a Li£\ in tlw fourth game, but that's the way our luck has chance to win these last games," Fisher woes. quartn at J7, gone this season." said, "And unfortunately we came up "As players. what we'vn got to do is 
l111dPrrlass11H•11 Tony l;islrnr and Tlw Irish come-from-behind attempt on the short end of them. We got off to each individual has got to concentrate Julius Joni's combirwd for four touch­againsl the Cardinal was one of many a real slow start." on making himsrilf better and whatever downs in lhl' <·omnbark, highlighting this season. In the end, however, the Irish ended that is and however much that takf~s. tlw importa1JC1\ or young playnrs on this Last week, they were down 31-17 up on the losing end, in their seventh that's what needs to happen," sopho­yPar's irwx1wri1incml Irish squad. against the Boston College Eagles game this year decided by less than a more outside linebacker Hocky Boirnan 
"A lot of tPams would havP givPn up, before lighting back to a 31-29 finish, touchdown. said. 

AP Poll scoring summary & stats ESPN/USA Today poll 
leam record points scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 1 Florlda SI. (64) 11-D 1,744 
Notre /Jame 7 14 8 8 37 
2 Virginia Tech /6) 11-D 1,685 17 6 7 10 40
Stanford
3 Nebraska 10-1 1,599 4 Wisconsin 9-2 1,468 
team statistics ND Stan
5 Florida 9-2 1,428 6 Tennessee 9-2 1,385 first downs 22 27 7 Alabama 9·2 1,320 rushes-yards 46-241 33-87 8 Kansas St. 10-1 1,299 passing-yards 202 385 9 Michigan 9·2 1,115 
comp-alt-int 11-22-1 26-38-1 
10 Michigan St. 9-2 1,132 
return yards 16 63
11 Marshall 11-0 1,042 
p1tnls-aC1erage 4-39 3-40
12 Texas 9-3 957 
jiunbles-lost 2-2 1-1
13 Minnesota 8-3 871 
9.3 717 penalties-yards 6·59 2-15
14 Penn St. 
15 So, Mississippi 8·3 707 time ofpossession 32:41 27:19 16 Mississippi St. 9-2 685 17 Georgia Tech 8·3 652 
individual statistics 18 TexasA&M 8-3 581 passing 19 Purdue 7-4 485 NIJ -Jackson 9-19-1-167, Baltle 2-3-0-35. 
20 East Carolina 9-2 432 
Stanford -Husak 24-34·1-334, Borchard 4-4-0-51. 21 Georyia H 31-6 
rushing

22 Stantord 8-3 267 NlJ-Fisher, 19-107, Jones 9-66, Jackson 7-24, Batlle 6-21,
23 Miami {Fla.) 7-4 140 
Hunter 1-13, Goodspeed 3-8, Givens 1·2.
24 Arkansas 7-4 134 
Sta.nforri -Allen 12-40, Wire 8-28, Carter 5-16, Husak 2-3,
25 Boston College 8-3 114 Gayles 1-2, Moore 3-1, Borchard 2-(minus-3). 
rcceiuing
other teams receil'ing votes: Mississippi 112, Oregon 81, BYU 66, Illinois 42, Colorado St 24. ND -Fisher 3-68, Holloway 2-36, O'Leary 2·21, Johnson 1-30, Givens 1-24, Brown 1-15, Getherall 1-8,
Oklahoma 22, Utah 13, Clemson 8, Louisiana Tech 7, Virginia 7, use 5, Washington 4, Colorado 2, Swnford-Wallers 8-183, Pills 6-85, Davis 5-59, Uso 3-22, Allen 2-22, Carter 1-6, Wire 1-6, Wells 1-3, Moore 1-(minus-1). 
scoring team record points summary 1 Florida St. (66) 11-0 1,472 
~
1st 2 Virginia Tech (3) 11-0 1,416 
Stan: Wallen 62 yd. pass 3 Nebraska 10-1 1,346 Imm Husak (Blselll kick), 9-2 1,274
4 Wisconsin 
14:35. 
5 Florida 9-2 1,196
Stan: Foch! 37 lumble relurn (BIHIII klclt), 13:32. 6 Tennessee 9-2 1,166 Stan: FG 81111111 31, 3:13. 1,115
1 Kansas St. 10-1 
ND: Fisher 1 yd. run 
B Alabama 9-2 1,076
{Sanson kick), :08. 
!l Mlt;hlgao 9-2 1,021 2nd 10 Michigan St. 9-2 937 11 Marshall 11·0 832
ND: Flsh•r 42 yd. ~ass from Jackson (Sanson kick), 12 Texas 9-3 759 13:56. 
13 Minnesota 8-3 633 
Slan: FG Blnlll 47, 10:15. 
14 TexasA&M 8·3 626
ND: Fl$her 9 yd, run {Sanson kick), 7:19. 15 So. Mississippi 8-3 624 Slan: FG Blselll 34, :OO. 
16 Georgia Tach 6·3 606 17 Penn SI. 9-3 603
:frd 
18 Mississippi St. 9-2 540 
NO: Jones 24 yd. run East Carolina 486
19 9-2 
(Fisher run), 11:30. 
20 Purdue 314
Sl•n: Wallers 38 yd. Pa!S H I; from Husak (Bisom kick), 21 Stanford 8·3 281 3:19, 22 Boston College 8·3 145 23 Georgia H 124
4th 
24 Miami (Fla.) H 120 
Stan: Borchard 2 yd. run 
25 BYU 8•3 114 
(Blselll kick), 8:13. NO: Holloway 5 yd, pass 
other teams receii•iug voles: Oregon 112,
from Jack,on (Getberall run), 1:32. Mississippi 52, Arkansas 42, Colorado St 40, lllinols Stan: FG Blselll 22, :DO 23, Oklahoma 23, Hawaii 11, Clemson 10, TCU 10, Virginia 7, Utah 5, Auburn 4, Louisiana Tech 4, Oregon 81 2, Washington 2, Fresno St 1, Louisville 1 
'' 

O
THE 
Notre Dame at Stanford BSERVER Tuesday, November 30, 1999 

.... 
Notre Dame's second winless November in the program's 111-year history closed out the team's worst season in 26 years. The Irish now have the offseason to reflect on what went wrong and get the team back on track. In the meantime, Notre 
Dame will await possible punishment for its NCAA violations. 

,. 


ll!llii-••---------------.......... .... 

nee 
....--------":'81-. 
O
THE 
Tuesday, November 30, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Third time is the charm for Rage's new album 
By ROBERT CALLEROS 
Scc11e Musk Criuc 
Ragn Against thn Machine is back and without a douht still "cairn likn a bomb." Baul!~ of l.os /\ngnlns, just its third album in sevP.n ynars, is llrn hand's most amhitious and wdl-prn­duccd album yet, and it dcfinitnly kav1is a doop imµaCL. 
Although al limes it is not nearly as explosive or l'iorce as its two previous relnasns. Ragn's mixture of hip-hop beats and hard metal guitar brings a style and sophistication not seen heforn. Hage's latest album is not only music for tho ears. but a masterpiece for thn mind, body and soul. 
Tom Morello and his guitar are one of the most interesting highlights of Battle of Los Angelus. Whether it's 

using the guitar as a set of turntables for hip-hoµ record scratching or con­juring up sounds of a group of bng­pipes, Morello's skill at the instrument and e"'-tra()rdinary creativity produce a sound so f'resh he can only be called a genius. 
Not to be forgotten or overlooked is Zack de la Hocha, the "anti-myth. rhythm rock-shocker," who still deliv­ers the aggressive and powerful vocals that have always characterized Rage Against ihc Machine. His lyrics arc at timns a bit apocalyptic, as he uses his style of tire and brimstone rapping to call for rnbellion and change. 
On Battle of Los Angeles, Hage returns with a political agenda more visible and ambitious than on either of the two proceeding albums. Pick any song on the album and it is not hard find a political in_justice or see why Rage foels that they are the "Voice of the Voiceless." It uses the power of music and its position in the music scene to create and use "the weapon of sound above ground," in hopes of creating public awareness of political injustices. 
The "political injustices" of Mumia Abu-Jamal and the EZLN arc the most frequent themes, but Rage also makes sure to mention the political wrong­doings of the elite, the system and capitalism. Battle of Los Angeles pro­duces more than a number of calls for rebellion and uprising in hopes of cre­ating change. 
"It has to start somewhern./lt has to start somehow./What better place than here./What better time than 
·Rage Against The Machine 
RAGE AGAINST THE MACHINE 

1~Jattle of Les Angeles 
£pie Records
** ** 1/2 lout of five) 
now." 
Overall, this album is a must-have. It delivers all the ferocity and power of an old B.agn Against the Machine album, while also corning at Urn listen­er with a fresh and unique style. Songs such as "Mic Check" or "Guerrilla Hadio" only begin to excm­p li fy the power n/' Battle of Los Angeles. 

----_-_-_-_-_-_---_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_-_-_-_-_::_-_-_::_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_::_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Beck's new album is a joyride for the senses 
By JAMES SCHUYLER 
Sn·11c Music Critic 
Thnn) lmvl) bnen l'nw albums that can lw call1Hl nwolutionary in the '90s. SomPtimPs sounds are markntcd as 11nw 1ivPn though they do nothing but rdrn~h old trends. Beck's Odnlay, how1wer, was a truly rnvolutionary album. It fused sounds 
Beck 


with tormented lyrics of pain and joy in a way they have never been fused before. 
Thn question is, how does an artist follow perhaps one of the best albums of the past century'? If you're Beck llanscn, you go in a completely differ­ent direction. With Mutations, he trans­formed his image by stripping down his music to a much simpler sound than before and put much more thought and less allusions in his lyrics. But one underlying dement exists in Mutations that nxists in all of Beck's music -fun, purn unadulterated fun. 
In Bnck's latest releasn, Midnight Vu/turns. he promised to do a pure party album, and he has dnlivercd. Midnight Vultures is a mixtun" of' soul, H&B. hip hop. funk and a little bit of twang hlnndnrl with dumb lyrics (really morn ridiculous than dumb), to cr1rnto an a.lbum that is a retrospoctive on tlrn '70s. not merely a throwback to it. 
Somn songs ·make you laugh, some would normally make you cry (from insanity! and somn ovPn mak11 you rPwind to makt• sum that hn rnally did just said, "h11r lnft nyn is lazy." 
Although using a '70s tlrnnrn, the album dHf'initely has a modnrn sound. It ust!S hip-hop. solid guitar and piano riffs mixed with a falsntto voice rnmi­nisct111t of' Prince. In manv wavs it is unfair to compan• Midnight Vulturns to Odnlay. Thuy were both writlcn and rccord11d with complntuly different objPelivus in mind. Orni thing thny havn in common. howcvc!r, is Lhat Uwy an~ both complctn albums. So many tirnfls it senms like artists struggle to cr1)ato unough cnntnnt for a f'ull l(mgth that tlrny lose sight of' the rncord as a whole. Thny oftnn struggle to get their few really good song-s down and Iii! up tlw romaining spacP with nrndiocre matP.ri­al. 

Midnight Vulturns works as a com­plntP album. The album picks a tlwme and sticks to it, evt\ll though that t!wmc may be lunacy. t\ncl it should conrn as a comfort to lfor.k fans that it s1,nms likli ho would havn no problnm doing cuunt­less morP albums like this. Each song is filled to the max with sound but with­out muting any part. of the song. Tlw synthosizers pop when thny am sup­posed to, tlw drums lwat wlwn llwy should and t!w horns always wail whr.n thoy am needed. 01w of' lllf' h11st com­plinrnnts that you c·an givP an album is that it works. and this 01w ctoPs. If anv­th in g ncgalivt~ can br\ said aboilt Midnight Vull1tri1s is that it has tlu• pos­sibility of being misunderstood. 
Don't misunderstand Beck's music, just love it l'or what it is, a joyride for the senses. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 30, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Rose rallies support to earn 
right to return to baseball 
Associated Press 
CINCJNNATI, Ohio 
Pete Rose is launching an Internet petition and may sue baseball to end his lifotime ban. 
"You can't keep a guy from making a living," he said Monday in an interview with The Associated Press. "It's not Lhe American way." 
1:-'ollowing an investigation ol' his gambling, baseball's career hits leader agreed in August 1989 to a lifetime ban from the sport. 
He applied for reinstatement in September 1997 and while commi.ssioner Bud Selig has said several times that he has seen no evidence that would make him change the ban. he hasn't formally responded to Rose. 
"If you find in your heart you didn't want to give me 

reinstate­"ffyou find in your heart said. "I have 
ment, just 

you didn't want to give no respect for 
write back 

John Dowd. 
and say, me reinstatement, just 

He didn't do 'No,"' Rose write back and say, 'No.' an impartialsaid. "I 
I know he has stationery. investigation.
know he has 

We're sick
I know the mail is deliv­
stationery. I 

and tired of 
know the ered in Milwaukee.,. him going on mail is deliv­
the air and 
ered in 

talking about
Pete Rose 
Milwaukee." 

all this evi­
R o s e fonner baseball player 

dence he has." 
sportrut.com. which through Jan. 15 will contain a fan peti­tion calling for Rose's admis­sion tu the Hall of Fame. As long as he's banned from base­ball for life, Hose is ineligible for the Hall. · 
"One thing you have to understand is we're not looking for a fight," Rose said. "If that has to be an option, that will be an option. That's a last resort. I don't need it. The game doesn't need it.·· 
While baseball's rules allowed Rose to apply to rein­statement after one year, he's waited eight. 
He didn't want to apply while Vincent was commissioner ­Vincent headed the Rose inves­tigation as deputy to commis­sioner A. Bartlett Giamatti and hired Dowd, who compiled the report on Rose's gambling. 
"Fay Vincent wasn't going to 
give me a 
chance," Rose 
claimed baseball "s lawyers "blackmailed" witness­es against him during its inves­tigation 10 years ago. When pressed for details. he referred comment to his lawyer, 
Roger Makley, who declined comment when contacted at his Ohio office. Those who led the investigation at the time, Fay Vincent and John Dowd, denied Rose's accusation. 
Rose was in New York for Tuesday's launch of 

Rose also is angry Dowd put his report on the Internet. 
"How much is he making on the Dowd report?" Rose said. "If I died tomorrow, we wouldn't hear about John Dowd again until the day he died." 
Dowd said Rose is wrong. 
"We did it to educate the public, and we did it solely at the firm's expense," he said. "We never charged anyone a dime." 
The document Rose signed says, "Nothing in this agree­ment shall be deemed either an admission or a denial by Peter Edward Rose of the allegation that he bet on any major league baseball game" but it also says, "Peter Edward Rose acknowl­edges that the commissioner has a factual basis to impose the penalty provided herein, and hereby accepts the penalty imposed on him by the commis­sioner and agrees not to chal­lenge that penalty in court or otherwise." 
Giamatti said he personally had concluded that Rose bet on the Cincinnati Reds. the team he was managing, to win. Rose repeatedly has denied betting on baseball. 
Hosp, said baseball originally proposed he wait 22 years to apply tu reinstatement, then cut it to 11 and then to one ­the period specified in the Major League Rules. 
"At some point, there was talk of a specific time period, but it wasn't 22 years," accord­ing to Vincent. 
Rose's election to baseball's All-Century team and his con­frontational interview with NBC's Jim Gray following the on-field ceremony at Turner Field have brought renewed attention to his quest for rein­statement. 
Rose said the broadcaster convinced him to do the inter­view by saying he had "inside information" that would "help your case." Gray repeatedly pressed for Rose to admit he bet on baseball. 
"Here was a guy that was looking for a feather in his cap," Rose said. "The timing was not right. I'm not saying the questioning, it was the tim­ing." 
Rose said Gray's NBC on-field partner, Craig Sager, apolo­gized to Rose afterward. 
Yankeesturnto'OO pitching roster 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Now that the New York Yankees have kept one of their key free agent pitchers, their attention turns to re­signing David Cone. 
Completing a deal that had been in the works for weeks, the Yankees and reliever Mike Stanton agrned Monday to a $7.35 million, three-
year con­tract. 
"There were a num­ber of options open to me but this is where I wanted to be." Stanton said. "I've had a great run in New York so far and obvious-. ly I didn't think it was over. We got 
two-year
''I've had a great run in 
contract. But
New York so far and 
C o n e obviously I didn't think rebounded in the postsea­
it was over. We got the 
son, going 2­
numbers where we 
0 with a 1.29 needed to get them and ERA in two starts.
rm happy to still be in 
0 w n c r
the pinstripes." 
Gcorgfl 
Steinbrenner met with his
Mike Stanton 
front office
Yankees' pitcher 
the numbers where we need­ed to get them and I'm happy to still be in the pin­stripes." . 
The 32-year-old left-han­der was 2-2 with a 4.33 ERA in 73 games this season. He is 12-4 with a 4.20 ERA and nine saves since joining the Yankees in December 1996. 
Stanton has won two World Series championships with the Yankees and pitched in the last eight post­seasons. 
He has 1.09 ERA in 33 postseason innings. 
"Mike has established him­self as one of the most durable and versatile reliev­e rs in the game today," Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said. "He has also become, like so many others on this team, a player who thrives and excels in postseason play." 
Keeping Stanton addresses part of the Yankees' bullpetl needs, but they still have not resolved their biggest olTsea­son quest.ion -whether to re-sign David Cone, who went 12-9 last season with a 
3.44 EHA and pitched a per­fect game. 
Cone, who turns 37 on Jan. 2, has a history of arm prob­lems and struggled down the stretch, making the Yankees 
lrnsitant tu give him a 
staff Monday 
at the team's offices in Tampa, Fla.. and the Yankees' brass had lunch at Malio's Steakhouse -the same restaurant where they approved February's deal for Roger Clemens. 
The Yankees are said to be mulling a $9.5 million, one­year offer to Cone with a club option for a second year. 
Cone is holding out for a second year, yet it is uncer­tain whether any of his other suitors -Cleveland, Boston, Baltimore or the Mets -will offer him that. 
If the Yankees can't re­sign Cone, they will turn their attention to free agent left-hander Chuck Finley. Before the July 31 trade deadline, New York had talked about acqu1rrng Finley from Anaheim. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Free CD of cool indie music when  Phone Cards  669min. $20  Spring Break 2000 Free Trips &  Joe, I'm sad to hear you put away  Girls are like pianos. When they're  
you register at mybytes.com, the  243-9361 or 258-4605  Meals.  your bicycle built for two. I look for- not upright, they're grand.  
NOTICES  ultimate website for your college  ward to its return in the spring.  
needs.  SPRING BREAK 2000  Jamaica,Cancun,Batiamas,Barbad  Sigh ... no more rosters.  
THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center  FOR RENT  PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND·  os,Florida,Padre. Book now for Free Meals & 2 Free  "The Fire Swamp! We'll never gel out alive!" "Nonsense. You're only saying that  ·--..·-··­ 
PHONE 631-COPY  PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT  Trips.  because no one ever has."  Things to think about:  
www.CopyShopND.com  THE "FUN PLACE"!  Where in the nursery rhyme does it  
Store Hours  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Book before Dec. 17 for LOWER  MacIntosh apple has red rosy  say Humpty Dumpty was an egg?  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  HOME FOR  TIKI BEACH BAR  PRICES!!  cheeks;  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  ND-SMC EVENTS.  ENTERTAINMENT BY  Romaine lettuce turns green when  ·······-······  
Sat: Nonn-6:00pm  BOOGIE INCORPORATED  1800-426-7710  she speaks;  
Sun: Noon-Midnight  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Cherry tomato has gorgeous red  Use the Force, Luke.  
243-0658.  BIKINI CONTESTS  www.sunsplashtours.com  hair;  
LOST & FOUND  MALE HARD BODY CONTESTS 3 POOLS LAZY RIVER RIDE  www.thecommentator.com  But I'm mashed potato and fall down the stairs.  Muppets are cool. "I'm a married spud'"  
WATER SLIDE  
LOST:  WALK TO SCHOOL  HUGER BEACH FRONT HOT TUB  www.NDToday.com  I memorized that in 4th grade.  "I packed an extra set of arms and  
Silver Charm Bracelet  Amazing how the mind works, no?  your angry eyes."  
lost in middle of October  MINIGOL  It's all about the benjamins  
High sentimental value  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com  GIFT SHOP  Good Lord, not done yet?  
x3727 ·Mags  232-2595 or  SUITES UP TO 1OPEOPLE  t want to take the EiC to the  
mmm.rentals@aol.com  dance!!!  Here's a shout-out to HAC:  "Sometimes I wake up at night a,:id  
1-800-488-8828  begin to think of a problem and  
LOST:  WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  Well I want to take the ME'  HI HAC · HI HAC · HI HAC'!!!  think, 'I must te/1 lhe Pope.' Then I  
'Jo  Sanity.  Babysitter needed tor 4-year old,  I know you're reading!  wake up completely and remember I AM the Poper'"  
If found, keep it. I never used it any­way.  FOR SALE  PERSONAL  transportation required. Tues. & Thurs. 2:45-7:45 or 5:30-7:45 for Spring semester.  Yeah, other than that, not much  -John XXIII We survived the 50 mph hairpin  
Spring Break SpecialslBahamas  Experience with children preferred  here.  turns of KD -­scary'  
Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  FAX JT FAST!!!  but not necessary. Call Beth at  
WANTED  Meals! Awesome  Sending & Receiving at  254-9060 or email at BLP1975@aol.com.  Rumor has it Fluffy the Squirrel, currently of Team 395, may suit up  BK lost SIXTY DOLLARS on a STREET CORNER.  
Beaches,Nighllife!Cancun &  THE COPY SHOP  for the Irish as a running back next  -Gambling_,..  
Jamaica 7 Nights From $3991  Lafortune Student Center  year.  Get your mind out of the gutter.  
Free One Bedroom Apartment near  FLoricla  Our Fax# (219) 631·FAX1  Does anyone else remember the  
Campus  $129!springbreaktravel.com  FAX IT FAST!!!  D2 Motorcycle Tool poem? I  I miss my  Yeah, that's about what we'd  
1-800•678-6386  LOVED that thing.  Diel Coke.  expect 1rom him.  

.---:--...,...-:-,--:-,---.---.. 
--·----------------~-----­
' . ' '. 
' . I•' 
Tuesday, November 30, 1999_ 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Ioinyour dorm for one night and day in a campus-wide vigi,l! 
Venite Adoremus 
0 come let us adore Him, Christ the Lord. 
Each Advent we invite Jesus to come again into our hearts and into our world. 0 come, o come., Emmanuel, God with us... Let us not be too busy to welcome Hirn! 

YOU CAN ADORE THE INFANT JESUS! In Eucharistic Adoration, Jesus is truly present, Body, Blood, Soul, and Divinity in the consecrated Host ex­posed on the altar. He is present just as He was that night in Bethle_hem, only now in even more humble form. 
JESUS WAITS FOR YOU. Corne and kneel before Him, and spend half an hour with God, who became Man to die for you, and who became Bread to give you life. What an incredible gift, a life filled with the love and Spirit of God himselfl During this season of Advent, let us thank the Lord for life, and pray that all life might be cherished and protected. We invite you to pray with us, that all hearts may be transformed. 
JOIN YOUR DORM IN J(EEPING WATCH ONE NIGHT WITH THE NEWBORN IGNG! 
As a special preparation for Christmas and the Jubilee Year, you are invited 
to take place in a special campus-wide vigil before the Lord, on the last full 
day of Eucharistic Adoration this millenium at Notre Dame. Each dorm will 
be resopnsible for sending one representative every half hour, beginning 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6 at 11 :30pm and ending TUESDAY NOVEMBER 7 at 
1O:OOpm. What an awesome prayer we will lift to the Lord! See your dorm 
liturgical commissioners to sign up. 

NFL 
Associated Press 

Bill Cowher insists that, much like the Pittsburgh Steelers' offense, he isn't going anywhere,· 
But as he dismissed ques­tions about 
his own sta­tus Monday, saying. 'Tm planning to be here," Cowher raised dou·bts about floun­
d e r i n g Cowher quarter­
back Kardell Stewart's future in Pittsburgh. 
Cowher said 3 7-year-old Mike Tomczak probably will be the starting quarterback the rest of the season, beginning Thursday in Jacksonville, and hinted that second-year pro Pete · 
Gonzalez, not Stewart, will be the backup, 
"To say it's a one-week thing for Mike would be unfair," Cowher said, 
Asked if Gonzalez, a former 
Pitt star who has played only 
once in two seasons, is ready 
to play, Cowher said, "We'll 
find out." 
By default, Stewart becomes 
the highly paid wide receiver 
the Steelers have sought for 
years, reprising the "Slash" 
role of part-time receiver and 
quarterback he played before 
becoming a full-time quarter­
back in 1997. 
Injuries to Will Blackwell 
(sprained foot) and Courtney 
Hawkins (sprained ankle) left 
the Steelers with only four 
receivers and, Cowher said, 
created the perfect opportunity 
for Stewart to play, instead of 
sitting and fretting about his 
benching. 
"With Kordell, there's indeci­
sion and a lack of confidence," 
Cowher said. 
"Now, he'll get a chance to 
run around and release some 
o_f t~.at anguish and frustra­
t10n. 
Stewart made four touch­
down catches in l 995 and 
1996, plus another in an AFC 
championship game, and 
Cowher said he could have 
been an excellent receiver if he 
stayed there full time, 
But can Stewart, who has 
thrown only six touchdown 
passes in his last 15 starts. 
ever regain the confidence at 
quarterback that helped him 
lead the Steelers to the AFC 
title game in 1997? 
"I don't know," Cowher said. 
"I want to win games.. What 
we're talking about is an indi­
vidual and I'm looking at the 
team. Too many guys here 
have paid the price and 
worked and sacrificed to worry 
about one individual." 
Cowher also said, for the 
first time, Stewart's $27 mil­
lion contract will not influence 
whether he plays, this year or 
beyond. The Steelers would 
take a huge hit under the 
salary cap if they get rid of 
Stewart 
"I don't look at what a guy 
makes; when you do that" 
you're not c·oaching, you're 
managing, and I want to 
coach," Cowher said, 
Stewart was benched after 
throwing two costly intercep­
tions, one for a touchdown, as 
Cincinnati (2-10) quickly 
opened a 24-3 lead in upset­
ting the Steelers 27-20 Sunday, 

--~-~-----,-----------­
Tuesday, November 30, 1999

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
Cowher not ready to resign as Steelers head coach 
Notre Dame Circle K, with the generous assistance of WNIT Public Television and Creative Teaching, In·c. proudly present: 
19Q9 Christmas Toys and Tales 
Help make Christmas morning special for the youth ofthe South Bend community. Sponsoring a child by purchasing a toy and a book for them will spread the joy ofthe season into the homes and hearts ofmany less fortunate children. 

Have a dance coming up? Why not sponsor a child with your date? One can get the book, the other can get the toy, then together donate them to a needy child! 
for some reason, we've lost thing around. I don't know them. long it's going to take, but "But I'm going to turn this that's what I'm here to do," 
"As You Wish" ( 
'-"g"0 _,
IMPORTS .., , , 
Silver Rings .& Toe Rings Sarongs from Bali 
Jewelry Tapestries Sweaters · Accessories 
And much much more! 
Goutemala • Me><ico • Bali • Thailand • India • Ecuador 
Incredible Prices!! 
Great Christmas Giftsf! Clearance Corner!! 
10¼ Ciscoi.,ts for St, Mory's St\idcnts with I,t>.!I 
Proceeds from sales of Jew&lry guaNllltU th& loving hands of Guatemalan families J tames their ttver¥ salary, as well as furias for their ~ation. 
La Fortune -Room 108 
(near telephones) 
Nov. 29 -Dec. 4 
(Saturday!) 10am-5pm 

Tomczak replaced him and passed for 264 yards and two touchdowns, albeit against one of the NFL's worst defenses, 
Tomczak will go up against a much better defense Thursday at Jacks·onville (10-1). The Jaguars 1:an complete their first season series sweep of Pittsburgh, 
"But based on what Mike did, it would be foolish from any­body's standpoint to think you should go back (to Stewart)," Cowher said, "You can't lose sight of salaries and the salary cap, but you also can't lose singled out Stewart, the sec­ondary and the offensive line for playing poorly, but said the blame extends directly into his office, too. 
'Tm getting paid to coach the players we have and I have to do a better .iob of it," Cowher said. "We're judged on wins and losses and, right now, we're not getting it done." 
Still, Cowher dropped hints he's not comfortable-with the current mix of players. sug­gesting many might spend the rest of the sea­son playing for 
sight of the accountability you have to  "We're judged on wins and losses and,  their jobs. He repeatedly made references  
your team."  right now, we 're not  to  "the players  
And there are Steelers aplenty  getting it done."  who now,"  are  here  
for Cowher to blame for a  · Bill Cowher  "We've lost the edge," he said.  
three-game los­ Steelers' head coach  "Look  at  the  
ing streak that  close  games  
is beginning to  we've  played,  

resemble last year's five-game For six or seven years here, season-ending slide, Cowher we've won those games, now, 
Circle K Toy Drive: 
Any additional toys or unwanted SYR gifts can also be turned in at the same collection sites as part of the annual Circle K toy drive. These toys will be distributed to other needy children m South Bend. 
Here's how: 
1) Go to www.toysandtales.org 
2) From the pull down menu of schools, choose Notre Dame 
'3) Click on ·"sponsor a child," pick a child, and fill in your information 
4) Go get them a toy and a tale 
5) Drop it off at any collection site! 

Please wrap and label your presents before dropping them off. Collection boxes will be at the CSC or any dorm hosting a dance this weekend. If you have any questions or comments please contact Mary McManus at McManus.11@nd.edu 
' I ' 

Tuesday, November 30, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
HOCKEY 

Exploring Attitudes About leers take early 4-0 Appearance and Eating Habits 
lead, defeat Vermont 

University Counseling Center 
631-7336 Room 300 Tuesdays, 4:00-5:00 p.m. 
Drop-In/Discussion Series 
·Attend One Or All Of The Following Sessions (No Sign-Up Needed) 
Session I: 
Private Body Talk: Enhancing Body Image November 16 
Session II: 
"I don't have an eating disorder ... yet!" Feeling Trapped When You Compare Yourself To Others November 23 
Session Ill: 
Living In A World Where Being A "Plus Size" Is A Minus: Strategies For Self-Acceptance · November 30 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame hockey team shook off its first-period strug­gles by scoring four early goals while sophomore Jeremiah Kimento had a strong outing in his first start in more than a month, as Notre Dame defeated Vermont, 5-1, in Sunday after­noon action at the Conference Classic, held at the University of New Hampshire's Towse Rink. 
Notre Dame (5-7-2) -which had managed just four first-peri­od goals in the first 13 games this season -equaled that total in the first 12 minutes versus the Catamounts, with the Irish jumping ahead 3-0 after just seven minutes of play. 
Five different Irish players scored goals while 10 had a goal or an assist in the comfortable win. Kimento made 18 saves in his first action since giving up three first-period goals in the 4­2 loss to Ferris State on Oct. 24. 
Notre Dame senior center Ben Simon led the way with one goal and two assists while sophomore left wing David Inman and senior defenseman Sean Seyfarth each chipped in a goal and an assist. Senior right wing Joe Dusbabek and junior left wing Dan Carlson had the other Irish goals, giving Notre Dame a 2-0 lead just five minutes into the game. 
Dusbabek opened the scoring at the 3 minute, 37 second mark. Dusbabek was positioned at the far right side of the crease and slapped the puck by sopho­more Tim Peters for his third goal of the season and a quick 1­0 lead. 
Carlson struck 70 seconds later, after taking a transition 
pass near the right boards from freshman right wing John Wroblewski. Carlson then nlud­ed a Vermont defenseman with a nifty move before surprising Peters with a rising shot from the top of' the right circle for his third goal of the season (4:47). 
Seyferth added to the Irish cushion with his fifth career goal and his (irst since scoring in the 5-2 win at Northern Michigan on Feb. 28, 1998. 
Vermont cut the lead to 3-1 with a power-play goal midway 
through the period. 
Just moments later, a pass from Seyferth set up a 2-on-2 rush, with Simon sliding a pass into the slot and Inman quickly beating Peters for his team-lead­ing seventh goal of the season 
(11:50). 
Freshman Shawn Conschafter took over in the Vermont net at the start of the second period, after Peters had allowed four goals in the opening period. 
The Irish converted on a 5-on­3 chance midway through the second period, with junior right wing Ryan Dolder moving the puck to defenseman Sean Molina. Molina fired a shot towards the left side of the goal and Simon tipped the puck by Conschafter for his third goal of the season, restoring the four­goal cushion (9:37). 


Right now, there has never been a better time to be part of Arthur Andersen. Creativity and innovation. Enduring personal and professional relationships. The freedom to build and grow. Credentials that are admired and sought out worldwide. Commitment. And great rewards. 
Whether you're interested in Assurance and Business Advisory Services, Business Consulting, Global Corporate Finance, or Tax and Business Advisory Services, Arthur Andersen offers countless opportunities for making our world a part of yours.. 
Summer 2000 Internship Informational Session Wednesday, December 1, 1999 7:00 -9:00 PM Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium Casual Dress Please bring a current copy of your resume, listing location 
preference, GPA, & abroad dates. 

If you are unable to attend, resumes may be faxed to 312-462-4369 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
www.arthurandersen.com Helping In Ways You Never Imagined 
Arthur Andersen LLP is an equal opportunity employer. 
-
.. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 30, 1999 

BRIAN KESSLER/The Observer 
Head coach Matt Doherty reacts in frustration to a call in Notre Dame's NIT game against Arizona. He was called for a technical foul In the Irish loss. 
rJ mAnnouncing the 5 Annual Keough Summer Internships In Ireland All Notre Dame JUNIORS with a demonstrated interest in Irish Studies/Ireland are encouraged to apply. Applications available in the Keough Institute for Irish Studies 1146 Flanner Hall Applications due by Friday, 17 December 1999  
Pleasejoin us for a Claretian Vocation Retreat December 1_0-13, 1999 • Chicago Who should attend the retreat? Any college­age and older men interested in seriously reflecting on service in the church as a Claretian priest or brother. Join us to explore the challenges and rewards of leadership in a missionary community that is striving to respond to the needs of the day. Contact: Fr. Carl Quebedeaux, CMFThe Claretians (312) 236-7846Eastern Province, U.S.A. Frcarl@claret.orgPriests. brothers. and laypeople working together for a just world. www.claret.org  

Basketball 
continued from page 20 
scored a game high 25 points and the Irish converted five straight three pointers during one stretch to keep the Irish in the game. 
Maryland proved to be too 

Domino's Pizza Delivery to NDISMCIHC 
271-0300 

EARLY WEEK SPECIAL! 
Every Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday 
The weekend isn't too far away ... 
r-------------------,
I 2 Large Pizzas w/ Cheese I I $899 I 
I I 
I $1 Per Topping I 
I Add Breadsticks for $1 I I Good every Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday I I Visa/Mastercard/Discover and Checks Welcome! I
L ___________________ J 

NEEDS COMMISSIONERS! 
Pick up your applications outside #315 LaFortune from November 29th -December 8th 
Applications must be returned by December 8th 
Questions? Call 1-6028 or e-mail us at BKSTR.l@nd.edu 
much for Notre Dame, however, ood finally won the game 72-6 7. 
Matt Carroll and Martin Ingelsby each scored 11 points and Jimmy Dillon dished out nine assists, but the Terps' Juan Dixon and Danny Miller made some dutch free throws to seal the victory. 
All five Maryland players scored in double figures, includ­ing Lonny Baxter who dominat­ed under the boards. Baxter scored 17 points on 8-of-10 shooting and pulled down 14 rebounds to pace the Terapins. 
Notre Dame (3-2) looks to return to its winning ways tonight when they take on intrastate rival Indiana in Bloomington at 8 p.m. Indiana leads the series 43-19. · 


page 17

·1 i.1esday, November 30, I 999 The Observer . SPORTS 
Irish continued from page 20 doubln digits this snason. (;uards Dani1\lle (irt•(m and Ninl!\ Ivey Pach add,~d ,~ight for tlw Irish. Thn Irish d1ifense was unable to makn up for its crip­plnd ofT1mse. Fighting Illini guard Alison Curtain lit up the court. scor­ ing 28 points to lead her squad to its fifth victory of the season. . The sophomore was 7-12 for 14 points f'rom the field and tallied another 14 at the free throw line, going 14-18. "We were focusing on two other playors instead of Alison Curtain, and those two didn't have very good games so we did got tlrn job done there," Siemon said. "But in doing that wo took her for granted.  She scored a lot of her points on transition and we didn't stop her effectively." Curtain also contributed much to the Illinois' defense, tallying seven rebounds and four steals on the game. The contest marked the first time in 17 years that the two squads had met on the court. Notre Dame is back in action on Wednesday when it takes on Butler in its first regular­season home game of the year.  NCAA BASKETBALL Second-half run leads Ohio State to victory Monday night.Associated Press Then Michael Hedd finally started making some shots.COLUMBUS, Ohio With Hedd scoring nine or his Vermont found itself trailing l 9 points in a 17-2 second-halfNo. 15 Ohio State by just four run, the Buckeyes rolled to awith 15 minutes remaining 7 4-51 victory.  
"In the second half when we  
got closn, Hedd really took ovnr  
the game," VPrmont coach Tom  
Bronnan said. "Al that point,  
they remembered they wnr1•  
Ohio State. And wo rcmnmbnrnd  
we were V(irmont.."  

Hedd had hit just six or his lirst 24 shots from the field in Ohio State's opmiing loss to

AUTHOR EVENTS! 
Tuesday, November 30 4:00 -7:00 pm Acclaimed Niles anisr Nancy Drew will sign copies of her new book The Artful Spirit: Crafty Hobbies to Gift Wrap Your L1fe1! 
Tuesday, November 30 
7:00 pm 
James Turner will sign copies of his book 
The Liberal Education ofCharles Eliot Norton. 
Wednesday, December I 
7:00 pm 
Notre Dame Theology Professor Lawrence Cunningham will discuss and sign his newly released hook Thoma.r Merton & The Monastic Vision. 
Friday, December 3 3:30 -5:00 pm Father Hesburgh presents an updated edition of 
God, Coumry, Notre Dame. 
Sarurday, December 4 
2:30 ptn 
Award winning children's author and illustrator David Small and Sarah Stewart join us ro discuss children's books and to sign David's newly rdea~ed The Huckabuck Family and How they Raised P"pcnrn in Nebraska and Quit and Came Back. 
Saturday, December I I 
2:00 prn 
Children's author Sarah Kirwan Blazek joins us for a discus~ion and book signing of her popular "all ages" titles: An Irish Night Before Christmas, A Leprechaun's St. Patrick's Day, and An Irish Halloween. 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 

IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-631" • www.ndbookstore.com 


Notre Dame and llrn first half against the CutamounL'i. 
"We noeded a win." Hodd said. "It didn't mallnr who it was. It could havB boen a high school or elementary school team." 
Vermont (0-4) hit sevon of its first nine shots of Urn second half to pull within four. with Tony Orciari scoring 10 of tlrn points in tho 18-9 surgo. 
Ilowcv(lr, Hr.de! scored the next seven points for thn Buckeyes, starting the streak with a 3-pointer from the left wing. 
"Except for a coupln of broak­dnw11s and lapses, we played pretty good defense," Ohio Statll coach Jim O'Brien said. "I was happy to sen Michanl brnak out and be a little more! assertive offensively." 
The pressure defons(1 by Ohio State (1-1 ), playing its lirst game in 13 days, forced the Catamounts to miss 12 consecu­tive shots from the field as the Buckeyns built a 61-42 load. 
Vermont scored only 11 points 
in the linal 13 minutes. 
"I think Johnson is th11 bnst­
kept secret in the country," 
Brennan said. "llis presencr. 
rnally bothered us. We wantnd 
to gcj inside and hr, just totally 
negated that." 
The Buckeyes hit 2(>-of-5:{ 
shots from the field, with Pmm 
and Hedd combining to go 12 of 
27. Redd hit his last thren attempts. 
That was marked improve­ment !'or Ohio StatP. In a stun­ning 59-57 loss to tlrn Fighting Irish at home in the Prnseason NIT two weeks ago. thP Buckeyes shot just :n percent with Penn and Redd combining to go 1 0-ol'-33. 
Flyers 68, Wildcats 66 
Tony Stanltiy scornd 23 points 
and hit a pair of dutch 3-poinl­
ers down tlrn strntch as unb,•.at­
en Dayton rallied from a 10­
point dclicit to a 68-6(1 vktory 
Monday over No. 13 K11nt11ckv. 
The Wildcats (3-2) blew ·tlrn double-digit lead with turnovers and then lost it because of their inability to hit a 3-poinler. Tayshaun Prince's :!-point attempt at the buzzor went off the rim. 


Notre Oame Women's Basketball 
VS. BUTLER DECEMBER,l 7:00PM JOYCE CENTER 
In a game to promote Breast Cancer Awareness 
Everyone receives a free ift!!I 




page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 30, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish win thriller over Nebraska to advance to final four 
gave the Irish a 3-2 lead but in a draw, the shootout moved Irish attempt: Beene stuffed the Benson tied the score of the to one-shot rounds to determine Huskers and the Irish got ready Huskers on her shot. With the a winner. for the sunny skies of San Jose, first round of five kicks ending Lindsey scored on the first Calif., next weekend. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 

WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! ITS THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAMPUSMONSTER.COM 






. Lindsey aims in winning kick, Beene makes 
final save 
Observer Staff Repou 
One hundred fifty minutes of action could not determine a winner. Five penalty kicks could not determine a winner. Only after junior captain Kelly Lindsey scored on the sixth Notre Dame penalty kick of the overtime shootout and senior goalkeeper LaKeysi.a Br,enc saved Nebraska's sixth penalty kick could the Irish make their reservations for San Jose and the women's soccer final four. 
Lindsey directed most of the credit for the win to Beene. 
"Nebraska is a great team and probably deserves to be there just as much as we do but it came down to that last shot and Keysia made a great save," Lindsey said. "If it wouldn't have been for me. Coach asked who wanted to take the sixth penalty kick and I threw my hand up without even thinking so I defi­nitely wasn't nervous. I was just glad to put it in." 
The 1-1 tie after regulation could not be broken by four sud­den death 
overtime peri­
"J saw my team jumping 

of our team.
ods or five 

up and down and I The last think
rounds of 

we said in the
penalty kicks. thought 'Man, I got to 

locker room
Even after 
save this. ,, 

w a s ,
Lindsey's goal, 

'Whatever it
t h e 

takes."'
Cornh uskers Lakeysia Beene 

After both
could still con­Irish goalkeeper
tinue the longest game in Irish women's soccer history with a goal of their own. But 
Beene, who made seven saves on the day, stuffed Husker senior Amy Walsh's shot to the lower right corner and the cele­
bration began. 
"I saw my team jumping up and down and I thought 'Man, [ got to save this,"' Beene said about her emotions before the final penalty kick. "I didn't want to let them down." 
The Irish opened the scoring in the second minute. Senior Jenny Streiffer took a pass from sophomore midfielder Mia Sarkesian and beat Nebraska 

NEED MONEY FOR BREAK? 
TAKE OUT A SHORT-TERM 
LOAN FROM: 

THE MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 11:30-12:30 M-F 
IN FRONT OF THE 

teams went 
scoreless for 
the rest of regulation and 60 minutes of overtime, the penalty kicks began. Streiffer and senior Jenny Heft scored on the first two Irish shots while Beene saved Rheem's first shot to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. The Huskers fought back to tie the shootout at 2 with goals by Meghan Anderson and Christine Latham. Anne Makinen's shot bounced off the post for the Irish. 
LeBlanc saved junior Monica Gonzalez's shot but Nebraska's Sharolta Nonen's shot sailed over the net to keep the shootout tied at 2. Jen Grubb junior goalkeeper Karina LeBlanc to her left. The shot bounced off the left post and rolled into the net. 
The goal was Streiffer's 19th of the year and 70th in her career. The goal made her just the second woman ever to score 70 goals and 70 assists in her career. Former North Carolina star Mia Hamm is the only other player to achieve that distinc­tion. Streiffer's 71 assists put her just two assists behind Hamm for second place all-time on the NCM career assist lead­ers. 
With the Irish leading 1-0, the Husker offense did not remain dormant for long. Kelly Rheem knotted the game at 1 in the 18th minute off a crossing pass from Jenny Benson. The Irish defense held the potent Husker offense in check for the rest of the game, however. 
"We felt good about our play today and our game plan," head coach Randy Waldrum said. "We definitely dodged some bul­lets on corner kicks because they are so good on set pieces. Nebraska has had such a great year. I think they really dictated the quality of the two teams. We battled through a lot of situa­tions through the course of the game and four overtimes that l think shows the character 



.,....-­

Tuesday, November 30, 1999 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
r~,~~,
I I' 
!/ I I 

Fox TROT BILL AMEND 
\. I 

IN M'l' 10 "l'EARS Of 
t"f'S NEVER BEEN 

I Dorol'T EVEN !<Now WHEN '(oU"RE ltt~H 
E')(1STENCE, I'VE NEVER 
L11<E ll·IIS BEfoRE! 

WHY I CAME OIJTStDE, RANT1N<:i, COULD 'l"OV 
SEEN Svc!-! MISERABLE 
IT'S So BAD.1 SMEAR SoME SuNTAN
I 

Lo1"10N ON MY BACIC?
No"EMBER WEATHER! 
\ 
I 

'0" 
The Ghost of Losing Seasons Past. 
beam. 1@nd.edu 



Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

RecSpons Office Rolfs Sport5 Rec:regtion Center 1-6100 • http://www.nd.edu/--rec:sport

One Dai, 
Saturday. December 4. 1999 11 :OOam--6:00pm Rolfs S·ports Recreation Center 
Deadline to Register is 12:00pm, Friday, December 3. 
53 Coward's lack 60 Med. care grps. 
54 Kate's TV 63 Not active: Abbr. partner 
64 Unlock, in verse 
55 Daniel's "Sonnets to " 65 Cloak-and­dagger org. 
59 Frontiersman Boone, for short 66 Barbie's doll 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEllRITIES BOHN ON THIS DAY: Bill\· Idol. C Gordon L,ddv. Man,h· f'a'tink111. Dick Clark, 130 Jack­
son, lune f>ointt-r 
Happy Birthday: You CClllle up w1 th it cnncppt and lllcl ke it happen. That is wha1 the year dhead will bt' likt>. Add,•d d1sc1pl111e will lwlp vou discover sucn~ss along the wav, flnd­ing solutllH1> quickly <111d t,,rning am· problem 11110 ,1 thmg oi the past. 
You're a strong competitor and a 
great team pl,l\'er. Your numbers: 5, 
13. 27, 38. 40. .J::' 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your 
thirst tor knoll'lt'dgL' will draw vou 
to unusual places. Co1nn1unicafion 
\\'ith foreig1wrs will be eye-opc>nmg. 
Make sure your papers are in order 
befort, ,·ou ll?c1\·e the countrv 000 
TAURUS !April 20-May 20): 
You'll b,• "f'-SL'I 11 someont' vou low 
h.1s spenl too mud, 111011ev.· Bt.• can:-­
ful not h1 111c1kl' unrt1.11istic-promises. 
You will prLlb,;blv hc1vtl to takl' can" 
of prllblt•111s l~1c111~ older relatives. 
00000 
GEMINI !May 21-June 20): Ro1n,1n(e ,,·tll lw \\'hat vou're ln(\k­ing for. You c.in't sit at home and dream about thL• lol't' ol vour life. If there's sorneon1:.• from yollr past ~'OU want to see ag,1111, pick up the phone ,md call 00 
CANCER !June 21-July 22): One­s,ded romantic attractions are likeh·. Tran•! will bnng \'OU the most satis­fact1011 Tlw people \'OU meet and the things \'llu see ll'ill make a lasting 1mpress1on on \'L)U. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You need It> pul ,·our di,,cipline to good use. It's llllll' to end some of the bad l1c1b1ts \'l\U'\.t' m,111,1ged tn pick up thruughout tlw ,·ear. Bl" pn•pared to t,1kt• a seric,us st,1b at getting back on 
. Birt_hday Baby: You 1ust can·t get enough oi a11vth111g. You know how to l'll)O\' l,fe and ,·ou can teach others to join111 as well. You are giving, outgomg ,rnd ,1_ true crus,1der "'.hen 11 comes t0 helpmg the underdog 
1:-.:e,·d ,1,il·1c,•' Check out Eugenia"s Web sites at astroadvice.com rugerualdst.com, .1stromate.com.) ' 
'. ~,1,,,_1 l 111, 1•r.;,11 1'n:..;-. '-i, nd ll·,,i,, 
EUGENIA LAST 
track 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Pl,111 
your sonal events carefully Al'o1d 
friction with vour mate. You·ma\' not 
t•njov a lot o/ the same things Com­
promise 11 you wish to have an\ tun 
together. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23·0ct. 22): You can 
raise your knowledge through tral'e.l 
or read111g material that elaborates 
on your interests. Your qu,ck wit will 
win you points with those 111 a posi­
tion to help you get ahead. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23•Nov. 21): You 
may become angrv about legal mal· 
ters and jrnnt ii11a11cial ventures. Be 
sure to get sound advice regarding 
your direction 111 important affairs 
Don't let anvone goad you 11110 spend­
ing your mone,·. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): It 1•ou hal'e been e\'aSl\'e \\'1th 
vour partner. you may imd yourself 
single again. Don't look back If ,·ou 
can"t give a commitment, it's proba­
blv time to mol'e on. 00 
. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Romantic encounters are like!\' to 
evoh·e through acquaintances ·,·ou 
meet through work-related el'ents 
You can make proiessional changes 
and deal with secret matters 
00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Mone,• ma\' slip through your lin­gers Don't lend to friends or vou will lose both the friendship and· the cash. Overspending on children will a,.-o leave you 111 a bind 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get busy making festive alterations to vour home. The whole family can be invo!l'ed. Invite friend.s over who are ,1lo11e through no iault oi their O\\'n 
000 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Poet Khayyam S "Naughty you!" 10 Went for the 
cuspidor 14 F.B.I. info 15 Place for 
croutons 16 Mafia bigwig 17 Halloween wear 19 Geraint's lady 20 _ Tafari (Haile 
Selassie) 21 Trash bag 
accessory 22 City on the Arno 23 Burglar's 
advance man, 
maybe 26 Tending to grab 28 Smokers' needs 32 "The Purple 
People Eater'' singer Wooley 33 "O Sole " 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
34 Triangular road sign 36 Not a stylish 
dresser 39 A throw 41 "Eating _• 
(1982 black 
comedy) 
43 Milky Way unit 
44 Neither sharp nor flat 46 Trainees learn 
these 
48 Singing syllable 
49 Pack down 
51 Study of prison management 53 Crimson 56 Good gymnastic 
scores 
57 "The Time Machine" people 
58 Brit. lexicon 
60 Move it 61 Balm ingredient 62 Feature of some 
radios 67 Laces (into) 68 Sal of "Exodus" 69 Aunt Bee's boy 70 Audition 71 Preserves, as pork 72 Withdraw gradually 
DOWN 
1 Wide of the 
mark 2 Aging orbiter 3 "Aladdin" prince 4 "That I have but 
one life to lose for my country," to Hale 
5 Air France fleet 
members 6 End of a bray 7 Came to rest 8 Hoodoo 9 Detroit duds 
10 Regalia items 
11 Pusher's target? 
12 Imitative 
13 NBC debut of 1/14/52 18 He followed Franklin 
23 Small role for a big star 
24 Kind of flu 
25 Infantry assault group 27 14 and up, for short 29 Gas station offering 30 Wine taster's concern 

Puzzle by Fred Plscop 
31 Single-master 35 Trick 37 Blue-haired 
Simpson 38 Earnestly hopes 40 Most likely to 
break a scale 42 Football Hall-of­
Famer Dawson 45 Singer Sumac 47 Like some 
booms 50 Some golf tourneys 52 Stay out of sight 

., 


Cruising to California 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team beat Nebraska Sunday in a shootout. The Irish advance to the Final Four of the NCAA tournament.

PORTS 
page 18 

O
THE page 20 BSERVER Tuesday, November 30, 1999 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Doherty suffers first two career losses in NIT 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Spores Editor 
After leading Notre Dame to its first 3-0 start sincA 1988, Matt DohArty suf­fered his first loss as a head coach. 

.. 
And it hurt. But ht' wantPd it that way . 
"ll hurts. You can't go undefeated f'or your coaching rareer, but it hurts," he said following Notre Dame's 76-60 loss to eventual champion Arizona in the semifinals of the Preseason "JlT at Madison Square Garden. "I want our guys to hurt a little bit, because l don't want thorn to accPpt this." 
While Doherty doesn't believe in moral \/ictories, it was an accomplish­ment that the Irish even reached the semifinals. Notre Dame upset then-No. 4 Ohio State and knocked off Siena ­two NCAA Tournament teams from a year ago -to advance to the Final Four of the NIT held on Nov. 24-26. 
In the semifinals, No. 8 Arizona used its athletic ability and quickness to create turnovers and contest shots. 
"I thought the key for us was defi­nitely the ability to challenge shots and keep them olT the foul line," Arizona had coach Lute Olson said. 
The Irish only got to the line six times and made just three. The Wildcats, on the other hand, were 13­of-19 from the charity stripe. 
"One of our goals every game is to get to the foul line and make more shots than they take," Doherty said. "Obviously we didn't do that and l think that was a factor." 
The Irish also struggled from the field. 
Arizona held Notre Dame to just under 40 percent shooting for the game and a dismal 7-of-27 from beyond the arc. 
Arizona's Loren Woods had a lot to do with that. The junior center was a force in the middle, blocking a school record seven shots and pulling down 10 rebounds. 

I "Anytime anyone was taking a shot, I I they had one eye on Loren and one eye on the basket," Doherty said. "That hurts your shooting percent­age." 
Woods also had 13 points for the Wildcats. · 
"I thought it was Loren Woods' best game for us," Olson said. "He's been out of action for a year and a half, so it's going to take a little time, but I thought it was far and away his best game. You can see how critical he is for us, not only defensively, but also offensively." 
Three other Wildcat starters scored in double figures, including Michael Wright who scored a game-high 22 points and had 11 rebounds. 
''Michael Wright's a bull," Doherty said. "It's a unique mix of toughness and the ability to take a pounding, but also touch to go with it. He's a big time basketball player." 
Preshman Gilbert Arenas had 15 points and Richard Jefferson added 13. 
Troy Murphy and David Graves were the lone bright spots for the Irish. Murphy scored 22 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, while Graves added 17 points. The two combined for 40 of the Irish's 63 field goal attempts and kept the Irish in the game. 
Notre Dame trailed by just seven at the break, but Arizona pushed its lead to as many as 18 in the second half and cruised to victory. 
The Irish returned to action on Nov. 26 to take on No, 24 Marvland in the consolation game of the· Preseason 
NIT. 

The Terps raced out to a 13-2 lead in the first two and half minutes of the game and threatened to blow out the Irish in second half, leading by as many as 18 at one point. Notre Dame, however, battled back and cut the lead to one late in the game, thanks to the strong play of Murphy and some clutch three point shooting. Murphy 
see BASKETBALL/page 16 

BRIAN KESSLER/The Obse,ver 

Point guard Jimmy Dillon captained the Irish attack in a 76-60 loss to the Arizona Wildcats in the semifinals of the Preseason NIT. The Irish stand at 3-2 on the season as they face the Hoosiers on the road tonight. • 
t 
... 
~ 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Riley leads Irish in loss to No. 15 Fighting Illini 
weren't scoring in the places spent most of the remainder of it gets later into the season "The team looks to [Ruthi for By KERRY SMITH we're usually strong in scor­the first half on the bench. refs will be easier on Ruth. so much -leadership and Assistant Sports Editor 
ing. We know we can play bet­With Riley sidelined, the But we need to be smarter scoring -that when she is out ter than we did." Fighting Illini took control of than that and realize the of the game we get a little 
Irish center Ruth Riley was Riley started the game off the court and quickly took a importance of staying in the worried," Simeon said. the only Notre Dame player strong, scoring HJ of the first 12 point lead, ending the half game." This time around no Irish that scored in double figures 12 lrish points, giving Notre at 40-28. The Illini never let Riley's foul trouble is not a players were able to fill the when the No. 15 righting Illini Dame an early three-point the Irish back into the game, new problem for the Irish -in void left by Riley. upended the seventh-ranked lead. finishing with a 10-point cush­the team's opening contest Guard Alicia Hatay, who led Irish 77-67 on Saturday. Coming up with 16 points in ion. against Toledo, the junior the squad in scoring in both of 
The loss evens out Notre 16 minutes, Riley looked as if Riley came back into the spent most of the game on the the team's exhibition outings name's record at 1-1. she was going to dominate on game during the second half, benr.h after committing two as well as in the season open­
"We definitely didn't play as the court. But foul trouble put but fouled out before the end fouls in the first two minutes. er, only came up with nine. well as we were capable of," a stop lo her run at the basket. of the game. Other Irish players had to step This marked the first time the said junior forward Kelley Riley picked up two quick "It bring early in the season, up their game in order to com­freshman has failed to score in Siemon. "We had some mental fouls in the first seven minutes refs usually tend to call more pensate for Riley's absence lapses on defense and we and after earning a third, picky fouls," Siemon said. "As and produce a win. see IRISH/page 17 
,,, Swimming Volleyball vs. Ohio State at Indiana NCAA first round 
Notre Dame lnvirational Today, 7 p.m. Thursday, 10 a.m. Los Angeles, Calif,
SPORTS 

Saturday, 5 p.m. ATA vs. Santa Clara 
vs. Butler NCAA semifinals vs. Michigan State Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 
~ 
San Jose, Calif., ..~ Saturday, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 
Friday, 6:30 p.m. 


