----_.._,.
----,.,--~-iiiiiiiiii-iiiijiijiiiiiiii----------------------~ 
Get in line 
Sports recruiting

Smry movies rakeci in the lop box office sales 
Mem/1ership in the Ml/IA has given Saint 

this week. Sixth Sense lead the pack. wilh 
Mary's College an advantage in recruiting 

other horror .flicks .fr,Uowing.  athletes.  
page 13  page 6  
---------­ ---------------------­ 




THE 




Thursday 

SEPTEMBER 2. 1999 

VOL XXXIII NO. 8 ° HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 

MAY THE BEST MAN WIN 

Sweatshop task force visits site 

By MAGGY TINUCCI Nc•wsWrii,·r 
Five members of Notrn Datmi's Anti-swnatshop Task Force visitnd El Salvador this summer in an effort to gain first-hand knowlcdgn about swPatshops. 
"WP Wl'llt to giit a lwllor handle on th11 conditions in tho f'actorios. lt's important for nrnmbers of the Task ForcP-to snP this. W11 don't want to bn naive." said Bill Iloye, associ­ate vice president and counsel f'or t.hn University and task l'orcn chair. 
Tim group who went to El Salvador included administra­tors. staff members. and stu­cl<mls. 
"The divnrsity or tlw group gav1! cliffernnt pers1wctives to Llw issues," l!oye said. "It was au nyn-opm1ing experience." 
Tlw groups tournrl apparel l';u'.torics, intrn·vimwd factory workers and discussed factory monitoring concopts with Catholic Church, labor and human rights activisl'i in order to get a betiN picturn of the "model l'actory," according to rtove. 
Llniversity presidnnt Father Edward Malloy created the Anti-sweatshop Task Force in March to advise him 011 fur­ther measurns tho Universitv should take to identify and rectify any abuses of' workers' 

rights at factories that produce 
Notrn Dame-licnnsed products. One responsibility ol' tho task force was io set up a monitor­ing system for Notre Damr.'s licenses, in order to "put some ·teeth" into the codl-l or con­
durt, according to Maria 
Cannalis, prnsident of' the 
Graduate Student. Union. 
Sin co March, 
PricowalerhouseCoopers has 
sr.rVPd as the soln monitor li,r 
tho University. 
The trip allowed inclusion of' 
human rights activists and 
church otlicials in the monitor­
ing system. 
"We went down them wilh 
the idna of' implementing a 
monitoring systcm where 
huma1i rights workers would 
come iu bel'orn and al'tcir 
Pricewater ho ustiCoo JH1 rs." 
Cannalis said. "Now we think 
they should go togr.tlrnr to 
assimilatci what is going on in
,t bntter way. They hav11 to s11e 
things in the same light. Thnni 
is a great deal of skepticism 
belW!Wll factory owners and 
human rights worke1rs. 
Because of this. we ii.re 
encouraging a parallel audit. 
This would allow for the most 
credibility." 
After the journey, Task 
Force leaders started to con­
sider widening the rangn of 
groups involved in tlwir 
efforts. 
"From tlm r.xpC'riencn of the 
trip. we want to explore 
whether there is a way to includn non-governmental organizations (NCOs) into our group as a possible rncom­mcndation to Fatlwr Malloy," lloyc said. 
Tim group did not tour any factory wlwrn Notre IJanw appand is madP and wnrc barrnd nntry from tlw l'rm~­tradP zonn in San Salvador, when• tlw main abusns occur, according to Cannalis. Tlwy did visit thrne factorins outsid!' of Urn zom\, two ol' which W!'rn owned by th<' motlrnr of a Notrp Damn graduatn and spokP with m1rn1lwrs of a mod11! monitoring pannl snt up to address worknrs' concPrns at tlw Mandarin apparnl facto­ry, located in tlrn f'rlw-tradn 
ZOIW. 
"I didn't snn any ahusns in tlw factorins. but tlwy Wf'r!' not rnpn\sn ntat i vn by any stretch of' tlrn imagination." said Cannalis. "Still. it's nic<• to know so1111\ arl' upright." 
Pricnwatn rho u~wCoo pC' rs monitors !'actorins all ovnr tlw world !'or a rangn of compa­nies. includingti>isnC'y, lloyn said. 
"Basically. tlrny arn rnpasur­ing the factory against our codn of conduct." lw said. 
Spncifically. tlwy look al tlw agn of worknrs lo dntnrmi1w whetlwr child labor is lwing utiliznt.l. how many hours pm· 
see SWEATSHOP/page 4 

STUDENT SENATE SECURITY 



Members attack ticket systelll Man exposes self to ND 
By FINN PRESSLY 
A,.,i;r:im N,•w, Edimr 
l.ast wm!k ·s tirkPl dislri­lJULion svst1•m d1·1iw !wavy 1Titirism· !'rnm dorm rPprn­st>11taLivns al W1HI 11nsday night's SludPlll SPnatl' llll!l'Lin~. 
"Tlw papPr mado it s1w111 not that good," st11­d1•11t body vi1:c prcsidl'nt Michal'! l'alumho said about The Obsnrvnr's ;\ug. ::!:1's rnport on tlw nnw 
syswm. 
1 k then 01wrn1cl llw t1oor Lo i:omnrnnls from sona­lors, many of whom voiced 1wgativn opinions. 
"I thought it was a rlisas­tPr," Farlny senator Christinn V!lliky sait.l. '',l\nyorw I knmv was liko, 'Lnt's go g1!l our lickels a11d leuve. · I don't know of anyonn who stayed tlrnrn nwrH tha11 half an hour. It snnrnt'd lib• a wast!' or 
limn for Urn people who planned it." 
Pasqunrilla West senator Audra Ilagan nxprnssnd concern for the l'irst-ynar students who dirln't havo 1h11 bnndit ol' pasl exp<'ri­cncc with tho systmn. 
"Tim frt\Shmnn in my dorm worn scared to dcalh," 1lagan said. "They were like, ·1 have to go through all of' this lo gnt tickets?"' 
ThP spating systr.m in Notrn Damn Stadium drew criticism. as well. 
"Why arn tlrn grad stu­donts in tho middh-i of all 11m students?" Walsh snn­ator Kate McCarthy asked. "They don't have the satne youn.~. l'nthusiaslic atti­tude. 
Craduatn students origi­nally sat in thn lower cor­ner ol' the student section. They rnqucsled a change in position, however. lrncaus1i they wtirn oft1in the unwitting rncipiPnts of 
student jogging on Ivy
halftime mementos sailing 
from tlrn senior section, according lo .Joe Cassidy, director of Student 
Observer Staff Report

Activities. Knott senator Ed Foy An u11idc11tifiod male allegedly
showed his support for the 
oxposed himstelf to a fomafo Notrndistribution systnm. 
Damo student who was jogging along 
"I liked how it worked." 
Ivy Hoad around 6 p.m. Wcdnnsrlay,
Foy said. "It was bcllt1r 
Notre Dame
than having to wako up at 
Security/ Polico
The

four in tile morning and 
rl'porind.

take a headfirst dive at 
Suspect 

The student
two closed doors and 
Last seen shorllv was jogging
stand tlrnro !'or four 
northbound on
hours." 
belore 6 p.m. 

the east sido of
Palumbo actded that in 
Wednesday. Ivy between
addition lo the early morn­
Warrick and
. Ca11casian

ing "mad dash." probloms 
Vaness Streets
with alcohol abuse led to a 
. 35 years old 

when she saw a
chango in the syslnm. 
. heavyset build white Jeep
"The drinking got out of 
Wrangler
hand," hn said. "This year, 
. receding hair-

parked along­
we wore able to contrnl 
line side tho road. 

the situation." 
The maleAn informal survey of occupant madethe senate conducted by 
an obscene comment to the studenl, according to the report. She then see SENATE/page 4 
glanced toward Lim vehicle and saw lliat the canvas door was missing. The man's pants wern pullccl down and he was nxposing himsPlf'. 
The student describnd the suspoct as a Caucasian main with comlwd­back hair and a mending hairline. Ilo was approximatoly 35 ynars old and very heavyset. The vehicle is a micl­1990s modnl. 
Security snarchml l'or the suspect but had not found the man as of press timn. Sncurity/Policn said any­one who observes a vehicln or pnr­son resembling thn dnscriptions should try to gel a license plate num­ber and contact Security at (d 1­5555. 
In a separate casn last" week. an unidentified mah\ nxposed hlmsnlf lo a f'cmale student jogging around Saint Mary's Lake bntwnnn Fatima Hetrnat Cnntcr and Carroll I !all. That suspect is described as a Caucasian main in his late 20s with blond hair and a stocky build. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, September 2, 1999 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME
INSIDE COLUMN 

MIT students discuss accidental death

I'll watch my 
•


westerns 1n peace 
If you're a liberal activist, stop whatever it is you're doing. Turn off the Indigo Girls CD and pay attention. 
For the past two years, Big Brother has divert­ed your attention with non­discrimination clauses, sty­

Dustin Ferrell
rofoam and advertising rights. Hut now that the 
Assistant
chain link fences are gone 
Viewpint
and the renovations com­plete, you can witness the Editor 
horrific murals of imperialis­tic oppression adorning the 
walls of the main building. 
That's right. underneath the Golden Dome (which could be melted down and sold to feed the needy), there arc several paintings depicting Christopher Columbus among the Native Americans. The paintings fail to depict Columbus in a negative light, and even show him getting along with several of the natives. Perhaps the time has eorne to direet teach-ins. rallies and Phil Donahue appearances towards the issue. 
Many of you did not even realize these paint­ings existrid until now, but they've bnen around for many years. And when they were painted, attitudes towards Native Americans, as well as other attitudes of Western culture, were much different. 
Unfortunately, we live in an age of historical bi;L<;, one in which history professors call Abraham Lincoln racist and any talk of western civilization comes loaded with revisionist buzz­words. 
Therefore it was only a matter of time before somebody somewhere got offended, and he would of course cry out for justice, a_nd we would have another mini-crisis on hand. But to tell you the truth, I actually 1,1.dmire the artwork. I have a real soft spot for nineteenth century artwork, regardless of its historical validity or lack there­of. I can look past the prejudices of the artist and lake into account the mindset of our forebearers without creating a huge issue in the process. 
Incidentally, this thick-skinned attitude also allows me to· watch spaghetti westerns and old cartoons painlessly. Hopefully. such reasoning will prevail on campus, instead of being misla­beled as apathy by the more "progressive-mind­ed." If this were Stanford, the paintings would have already been replaced by the Indigenous Transgendered Marxist Painting of the Month. Luckily, our administration looks past such non­sense, and carries on despite the protests of most students, including those who believe Notre Dame is a "laughing-stock" among Catholic uni­versities. Folks, Notre Dame is the premier Catholic university. If you want to see a poor excuse for a Catholic university. visit Georgetown. 
But I digress. The majority of my ranting: is directed towards the general idea that our cam­pus, as well as our society, still holds relics of an impure past that we're all so eager to come to terms with. In order to do so, many find it neces­sary to rewrite history and discredit the "bad guys" like Columbus. Others try to rid Catholicism of masculine language and replace it with a generic unisex substitute, as if this achieved any substantive objective. And the list goes on, as futile attempts to correct the past render us oversensitive and guilt-ridden. 
As for me, I'II take these lessons into account, as any responsible student of history. But I won't burden my conscience with that I cannot change. I'll just get back io watching my historically inac­curate Clint Eastwood westerns in peace. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the aulhor and not nece~sarify those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Maggy Tinucci  Mike Vanegas  
Laura Rompf  Graphics  
!-'inn Pressly  Karie Kennedy  
Sports  Production  
/\like Connolly  Anrhony Bianco  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
A. j. Boyd  Joe Srark  

The Observer (USPS 599 2"4000) is publi,hcJ Monday through Friday L-Xc~pr <luring l"XJm :rnd vac:mon periods. The Observer is a memher ofth~ A-.;~oci:ned Pres,., All reproduction l'ight.~ are rl!~erved 

~80 61 80 59 

V,.i AAtx1ii.Je</ Preoss  
8,Q,rI;;Aq Q 48 ~ Showers T-s!Orms Ra-in Ffurries S~oW Jee Sunny Via Assoc,ated Press Grapl11C$Nel  ~ Pt Cioudy  u Cloudy  Auburn Baton Rouge Bloomington .Boston Brooklyn  95 90 87 78 79  63 69 67 65 67  Buffalo Chicago Grand Rapids Inglewood Lexington  85 BB 87 71 88  58 66 58 62 62  Little Rock Long Beach Pittsburg Terre Haute Sacramento  90 77 84 68 75  70 61 57 58 68  

MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 

Residents and tutors of East Campus gathered Tuesday to dis­cuss the death of Richard Guy '99, who died early in the day as the result of a drug overdose. 
"It's hard but they're handling it quite well," said East Campus Housemastcr Jed Buchwald of EC· residents. 
Buchwald said deans, housomas­ters and mental health profession­als were on hand to list1rn to the students' concerns. 
"Things have gone about as well as can be hoped for right now," Buchwald said. 
A student of East Campus found Guy unconscious on the fifth floor of East Campus' east parallel Tuesday morning around 1 a.m. 
"Things have gone about as well as can he hoped for ri_qht 
now. 

Jed Buchwald East Campus housemaster 
Guy was pronnunced dead at the scene. Guy, a resident of Mission Viejo, Calif.. was entering his junior year 
as a physics major.  
The  Cambridge  Medical  
Examiner's  office  confirmed  
Tuesday  that  Guy  died  from  

asphyxiation as a result of nitrous oxide intoxication. Guy had a plas­tic bag over his head to inhale the nitrous. 
Guy's death is being investigated by Campus Police. The death is cur­rently presumed to be an accident. 
The Associated Press roportcd Tuesday night that the Middlesex County district attorney's office said the case was not being treated as a homicide. 
During a meeting Tuesday aJ'ter­noo n, housemasters and East Campus residents decided to move some of their in-house rush events to the halls of the dormitory in an effort to avoid media attention. 
"The consensus was that we felt that Dick Guy would have wanted us to go on as much as we would have," said East Campus president Jennifer Frank '00. "We're going to tone down our events slightly and keep tlrnm within the, dorm, but otherwise things will go on as planned." 
Secret service arrests wrong student 
UNIVERSITY Of-.' LOUISVILLE 

A reception welcoming the University of Louisville's new Porter Scholars -a society for academically tal­ented black students -was disrupted last week when United States Secret Service Agents and Louisville Police interrupted their first meeting to arrest a con­terfieting suspect. The only problem was the person who was arrested wasn't the suspect. The incident began when Secret Service Agents and Louisville Police were serving an arrest warrant in the vacinity of Crittenten Drive and Eastern Parkway, U of L Police Lt. Tom Fitzgerald said. "When they came to the resi­dence, two individuals fled and a footchase ensued," Fitzgerald said. "Ulitimately one of the two suspects that they were chasing was apprehended outside the [Student Activities Center!." Fitzgerald said at that time U of L's Department of Public Safety was contact­ed, and assisted the Secret Service and LPD in the search for the second ·suspect. "One of our parking officers saw an individual fitting the description [of the suspect] -he [the suspect! then toook oIT running into the SAC," Fitzgerald said. 




THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS. 
Thursday  Friday  
. 1999 Business Career  . 1999 Business Career  
Forum: throughout COBA  Forum: throughout COBA  
building, 6-8:30 p.m.  building, 10 a.m.-3:30 p.m.  
. Senior Pre-Game BBQ:  . Women's Soccer:  
in front of Senior Bar, 5­ vs. North Carolina, Alumni  
7 p.m.  Field, 7:30 p.m.  
. Cruel Intentions: Cushing  . Cruel Intentions: Cushing  
Auditorium, 10:30 p.m.  Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m.  

Rutgers inks contract with TAs 
HUTC;EHS UNIVEHSITY 
The teaching and graduate assistants will return to classes this morning knowing their contracts will be secure for another four ynars. Af'tPr months of negoti­ations, the administration and Urn Association of' American University Professors agreed upon a con­tract, which will be valid until .ltinn 30, 2003. Tho negotiation process went much smoother than in recen_l years, when professors wern m1gaged in a two­year contract dispute. The current contract expired on June 30, 1999. Hepresentatives on both sides ol' tlw table attributed the speedier process to the n<1w mutu­al benefit negotiation process. "The parties did not come to the negotiation table with preset positions," John Wolf. executive director of' University Labor Relations, said. "Instead they identify problems and concerns that they may have and togdher try to cre­ate options that might solve the problems and by being very creative and very opPn and listening." In order to begin the process of negotiation, both sides undc•rwcnt training with faculty from New York's Cornell University. 
Saturday 
. Men's Soccer: 
vs. Boston College, Alumni Field, 7:30 p.m. 
. 
Football: at Michigan, WSBT-Ch. 22, 2:30 p.m. 

. 
Cruel Intentions: Cushing Auditorium. 8 & 


10:30 p.m. 
Sunday 

. CSC Van Training: 
Center l'or Social Concerns, 6:30 p.m. 
. Women's Soccer: 
vs. Duke, Alumni field, 1:()()p.m. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®fdrecast for daytime (;Onditions and hi£h temperatures 
Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
5.. j ··. \r·····"·•,/ ~ , 

L 

85 60 85 61 84 65 
,,,.... 
' 

The AccuWeather"' forecast for noop, Thursday, Sept. 2. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.
608 

CO 1999 AccuWeather, Inc cow
1-----------------­
Pt~UUttt 

® © ·. . ~ D. [JJ' .
High Low Showers Rein T·storms Flumes Snow Ice 
............... 
WARM STATIONARY 
f'<­
,,,/ 

Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
..... 

Thursday, September 2, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
==--=--=--=--=---_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_----===-----=--=-======-:-::=--=-=::-::===============================================-=--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=~~--=--­
Brazilian Archbishop dies after long, distinguished career 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
\,iint M.iry's Fdiior 
t\rrhbislrnp Dom llnldt)r C,tmura of' Brnzil diml Friday aft1~r a !wart attack. 
Ill' was 

Saini Mary's 
t:Ollllll!'lll:n­
lllnlll s1wak­1•r for llu• 
Class of' 11187 1111{1 ltll 
honorary d 11 g r B n l'I! I' j Jl i P fl I. 


from both Camara Notrc1 Danw a11d Saint Mary's. 
Camara di,·d at his honw in llncifo al'tcr lming hospitaliznd with a urinary infoction IO days prior to his drntlh. 
Camara. who St'l'VNl as i\rrhhishop of' Olinda and Hccifo. spoh against social inc<1uality and human rights abus,is in Brazil's impoVt'rishcd NorlhcasL. lit> was tlw nieipinnt of lh1\ Martin 1.ut.lwr King .Ir. Aware! in 1970, tlm Niwano Pi•acP Prizn in 198:{ and was nomirutlt)d for the Nobnl l'nacn PriZ11 iliur limes. 
Camara's visit to Saint Mary's in I')87 symholiwd the C111legn's d'l'ort to P1nphasiz1) a commit­nwnl lo social justice, sai<l Keith Egan. profnssor or religious 
studitis. 

"lln was quiln s1)rious about his visit lwn~ and gracious in acct'pting tho invitation," Egan said. 
In Camura's <'itation for an honorary de1gren in humanitins. Dorothy Fnigl. thon acting vice prnsidont and dnan of !'acuity at tho Collngn, read that Camara had "profoundly movod the world community through his charismatic prnsnncu. His prolil'­ic writings and addrnssns m1courage a new undnrslanding of gosµol libnration basnd on the non-violnncr~ of Christ." 
Camara's address focused on tlm importancn of highnr educa­tion and the rnsponsibility to use that higlwr ,1ducation f'or s11r­vi1'.c. 
''Your country has tho biggnst rosponsibilily in the modern world," Camara said to the grad­uatos, urging univnrsities and tlw young to study justice nduca­tion and poace. 
Camara was praised by Pope .John Paul IV and Pope John Paul II l1ir his lifoslylo. From his ministry in the Northeastern part of' Brazil, the archbishop livnd and worked alongsidr, the poor. 
Camara campaignnd for con­struction of low-incomo r.oopcra­tivo housing, literacy campaigns, s1df-help programs and just wagns in factories. I !is life was a symbol of' bravery. Egan said. 
"llis simple life was very prophntic," Egan said. "To bP in his presence, you knew you wnrn in the presence of a man who took the gospel very seri­ously. llo wanted us all to be Matthew 25 Christians -to find Christ in Lhosn who are impris­mrnd, naked and hungry." 
Jorry McElroy, professor of business administration and nco• nomics and Camara·s host at Saint Mary's, witnessed his sim­plP lifestyle wtrnn he r.arrrn to r.ampus. 

"I had a dinnp,r at my house with a number of' peopln who spoke Portuguese," McElroy said. "lie hardly ate anything, just answered questions. I le was somewlrnre midway between earth and heaven somf'how." 
Camara cnlernd tlrn seminary at age 14 and was ordainnd al 
22. He began work in the slums of' Rio de Janeiro, wlwrn lrn later ber.11me auxiliary bishop in 1952. lie soon organized the Nalional Confornnce ol' Brazilian Bishops und!'r the guidance of Ciovanni Battista Montini. 
lie frequently urged his col­leagues to live the gospel 11s well, urging fnllow bishops to drop litlns such as "excellency" and "eminence" and, at the Second Vatican Council, to exchange golden crosses for wooden ones. 
Taking the arr,hbishop position in Recife in 1964, he stored the traditional gilden throne and replaced it with a wooden chair. lie also opted not to live in the palatial residence, but in a small, sparsn room lwhind a church. 

lln was an audibln voict, against military dictatorship from I 9h4-l lJ85 and snvnral attnmpts wnrn mado on his lifn. I!ti was also ba111wd from speak­ing with Brazil's media. 
llesponding to such dorogatory '.~~mes a~ "thn l~r.d Bishop" an~! 
hdel Castro 111 a cossack. Camara daimod that, "When I fod tlrn poor. limy called mn a 
saint. When I asked. 'Why are they poor?' they called me 11 communist." 
Camara rntirml in 1985, but continund to sµcak about indus­trialized nations in Urn Third World for the rnst of his life. 
Yet the mcssagn of' his lifo docs not end with his death, accord­ing to Egan. 
"We kcnp alive the memory of his visit at Saint Mary's," he said. "lie was a little man with a big message: to live t.he gospel for tho sake of thn poor. Saint. Mary's invitation expressed a desire to bring that example to campus." 
SECURITY 


Local man charged with theft 
Observer Staff Report 

Lorenzo .Jackson, 42, of' South Bend. awaitnd arraignnrnnl Wndrrnsday on charg(1s of criminal trns­passing and burglary, a Class C f'nlony. for allngndly stnaling a bik(i from outside Carroll I tall Ttwsclay. policn said . 
.Jackson, who was rr.movnd l'rom campus Aug. 28 for loitt1ring al Mr<;linn Hall, was arrnstnd at approximatnly 10 a.m. Tuesday at Angnla Blvd. and Pokagon St., assistant director of' policn Chuck llurlny said. 
.Jackson was not connect­ed to thdts al Morrisst1y llall. Ilurlny said, as was stated by a St. .losnph County Jail spokesnrnn in Wcclnnsd<!y's Observer. 
Charged i11 con nnction with those crinrns was Markus Cannady, 40, of' the 2200 block of Kenwood Avn., South Bnnd. Arrnsll\d at l.icolnway nnar Diamond Ave. at approximately 10 
a.m. Tuesday. Cannady also awaited arraignment 
Wednnsday  for  criminal  
trnspassing and  burglary,  
police said.  
Cannady  was  citPd  in  

1987 and arrnst!'d in I'J94 for trnspassing al Notr11 Danw, llurlny said. 
Call 1-5323 with News. 

page 4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 2, 1999 




Senate 
continued from page 1 
Cassidy showed that, given a choice, students would prefer a form of stadi­um camping out to rPceiving assignPd 


Sweatshop 
continued from page 1 
utilized, how many hours per week workers are required to work. how the wages are calculated and the factory's compliance with legal and environmen­tal stipulations. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers also looks at the health and safety situations in the factories to see if there are medically trained staffers, fire escapes and extin­guishers and whether the factory oilers protection against job-related injury. 
Also included on the check.list is how the employees are disciplined and whether they are offered any sort of recourse and documentation against unfair discipline. 
The last factory the group visited was not flustered by its presence. 
'The director said that everyone wants to come thruugh the factory," Cannalis. "They are getti.ng used to the monitoring system." 
Notre Dame has 200 apparel licensees, each with about 12 factories. Notre Dame has revised their code with the factories to include monitoring. 
"We can walk into the factories at any time we want." Cannalis said. "They won't be happy but it's in their best pub­lic interest to let us in." 
"There is both random and risk­assessment monitoring. With 2.400 fac­tories. we need to determine where the risk is the grnatest," Hoye said. 
The monitors engage in a two-day examination of the factory, interviewing tickets in the mail. If students were to receive tickets by mail. however, the majority of them would prefer general admission tickets by section, rather than assigned seats. 

The senators showed the most sup­port for the idea of camping out for general admission tickets. 
25 randomly selected employees. 
"Our trip showed us there is an essen­tial need for monitoring," Cannalis said. "The factories arc not going to regulate themselves to the extent they need to be. There needs to be parallel monitoring to ensure it is all enforced." 
The group to El Salvador included lloye; Dennis Moore, director of Public Helations and Information; Jim Paladino. associate director of the Center for Social Concerns; Cannalis; and Lee Tavis, professor of finance. Father Robert Pelton, director emeritus of Notre Oamc·s Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry and an expert in Latin American Church affairs accompanied the group and helped to organize its itin­erary. 
In other Task Force news: 
. Carol Kaescbier, University vice president and general counsel. whose work on the sweatshop issue predates the Task Force, was elected co-chair of the University Task i-;orce of the Fair Labor Association (FLA), a national organization which originated in the White House as the Clinton administra­tion's effort of address the sweatshop issue. 
The FlA is in its formative stages and Kaesebier's election will give her a prominent voice in advocating the views of universities to the FLA's industry and government members .. 
. l\otre Dame and PricewaterhouseCoopers representatives are engaged in Notre Dame's first audit of a manufacturing facility, a Champion Products factory. 
THE KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES 
PRESENTS A LECTURE 
Tuesday, September 7, 1999 
7:15 p.m. 100-104 McKenna Hall 
Joseph McMinn is professor of Anglo-Irish studies and head of English at the University of Ulster, Jordanstown, outside Belfast, in Northern Ireland. He has ppblished widely on eighteenth-century Irish studies, including Swift's Irish Pamphlets, Swift: A Literary Life and Jonathan's Travels: Swift and Ireland. He has also written extensively on the contemporary Irish novelist, John Banville, including The Supreme Fictions of John Banville. He is presently researching the influence of pictorial art on writers. 





RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 
"Christ expects GREAT things from YOUNG PEOPLE" 
--Pope John Paul II 
With joy and thanksgiving The Congregation of Holy Cross celebrates the perpetual profession of vows by our brothers 

Join us as they consecrate themselves to Christ forever. Saturday, September 4, 1999 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 1:30 p.m. 
ANSWER ~ 


THECALL ~ Stephen J. Kempinger, CSC 
"We accept the Lord's call to pledge ourselves publicly and perpetually as members of the Congregation of Holy Cross by the vows of consecrated chastity, poverty and obedience. Great is the mystery and meaning within these vows. And yet their point is simple. They are an act of love for the God who first loved us." 
Constitutions of the Congregation ofHoly Cross, V.43 



Thur~day, September 2, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Killer bees hospitalize beekeeper 
I.ONG BFACII. Cali!'. 
J\n 8]-ypar-olrl hp1•keqwr who did not r1)alizc his hiv1~s Wf!l"I' apparnntly tak11n over hy 1\lrira11iz1•d "killf'I' l>1•1ls" was attacknd whi11• mowing his lawn and in 1'.ritfral condition W1•d111!sclay. Virgil 1:ostnr was stung ;;() times Tt1Psday and was not bwathing whPn para­Illl'dics arrivPd. Ill' wunt into rnrdiar a1T1,st as Llwy workt>d on hilll. Ihiallh dHpartnw11l ol'l'i­rials f'Sti11111t1~ h,sti,r's t.lir1•i, hivi,s, origin111ly sf'! up for morP timid J•:uropcan brnis, hold about I million i\!"ricanizt•d lw1wyh1H1s. Tlrny also built a hiVI' in a trP<'..t\f'ricnnizf'd lw1\s an• not mon· v1·11omous Ihan other varidics. but t lwy an• morP aggr11ssiv1i and attack in lurgi! 11 u m lw rs . T lw y a pp 1• a r vI' ry s im iI a r to l'ur11pP;u1 ht>Ps, ,tllhough kill,,r lw1,s havP a 'ilwrt,~r wingspan If tlw !mf'S am c111H'lt1siV!'ly l'ound to h1• .\l'ric'a11iz1•d. it would lm Lhl'ir lirsl 1'f'("ol'dt>d attack 011 a fH•1·so11 in llw county. .\111horiliPs dPslrop•d tlw swarm al'LPr tlw alli1rk. 
Man gets 21-year sentence for shooting cat 
MII.W,\UKFI( 
,\ nia11 wlw shot his rat to ch•ath lwrnusP it ltiss(•d at him was SPlllP111·t•d t11 21 Vt!ars in prison. Louis \\'1•sP!a. 48. was ronvirt1•cl in May of !wing a 1"1•!1111 in possPssi1111 111" a gu11. Till' _jtulgi• l"itPd \\',•sl'!a's 26-y,•ar 1-rimi1rnl riH·ord wh1·11 '11• s1•111,•111·l'd him T1wsdav. I In killl'd llw ml in .la11tml"!' al'lt>r an arg1111w1i1 with his wil'1•, wlto111 lw a1·cusPd ol' ltaving an affair. .krnrding tu lt•stimony. WPsPla first LhrPaLPtwd lwr with Llw guu, liriug a shot inlo tlw ceiling. 1.all'I" Lill' samP day. hi' lwntlll<' upsPt with tlrn rnl IH•rausl' ii hissPd at him and shot Llw 1wt as it hid undPr a IH'd. ,\111011g his past 1Tinws. said assist.ult U.S. attonwv Paul Kanll'r: arnwd rob­lin_v. !waling a man ~\'ilh a Lin· iron. hitting an 111Hl1•r(·ov,•r agl'nl with a hollll• during a drug­rl'lat1•d rohbPry. hitting tv\'o p1•opl<' in a car wa~h and da111agi11g a public works v1•ltich~ with a hamllwr. 
Gadhafi celebrates 30th 
anniversary of coup 
Tllll'OI.I. Libya 
Tl11• Libyan l'apilal was a sparkling sea ·of !lags, lights and victory arl'lws \V11d1wsday and l111gC' whitn hirlhclay nu1dlPs dtH'.oratPd 0111' downtown squan•. all to rnlPbrat1• tlw :mth annivPrsary of" tlH' 1·oup that brought Moammar Cadhali to powPr. (;adhali. limn 2.7. 1:anw to pow1•r ill a military 1·1111p mi SPpt. I, IIJ(>'l. Tlw rnup rnTut-rl'd \\hill• llw last Libyan king. Idris, was ill T11rkPy !"or nwdical treatmnnl. The king dil·d in nxilP in l:gypt in 198:-1. Wndnnsday's fos­tivitins Wl'l"P tlw l"irst such commnmoration sirn·p intPrnalional sanctions wPrn suspended in i\pril afl1•r I.ihya lrnmlnd ov11r two suspncts in tlw bombing of Pan J\m Flight I (H. 
Market Watch: 9/1 
Dow 
AMl<:X: 
7.113.19
]ONES 
+7.78 
N11stla11: 2750.80 
, 11.45 
NYSE:








9IT2 
118.21 
CPMl'A!!iX 
l.~111 Qll,\l('0\1\-1 
IHII 
Mllftll:'\tlrl 
\.t!l,H \ii J'Wi UH:\ 
Cl.)i'~l Al 1<'1 \it I V,..llllUH (lM 
,\\fl Kif,\ O~l.l\a 
UITll'I !lt.f'O[ 
617.29 
+4.96 
s~~ I' 500: 
1331.07 

Co111110silec!0.66 
Volume: 752, I 00,000 

VOLUME LEADERS 
IH'IC.I U "H,10\:\NW s<idlN rmn 
!Kil  t l•.'iZ  t I.Z~i."  K.\.A---1  
'1'-U1l IHI.I  .!l,Z.l.1_,,1  -2.-t.tll7S .(l.'.f.\2~  1M.h'> H.KH  
MIi.i  -0.lt!  Sl.lH2.,  92..\H  
M\,H'N  +It. H,  7.12~fl  2(1.7.'i  
('~('.()  . I.fib  -. l.''127:'i  bff.')4  
r \'\'l'llM  .~ .. .,ll) +IU.l  +2••tMUO +U.Z!.oo  ~} ..tij 7o.nu  
,\l lt  tl.~2  ,IJ.'.1\62\  \J0,7'.I\  
UIW  .[.22  .-0.121~  10.:u  


Relatives Flight 111 victims embrace followin& the unveiling of the monument to the 229 passengers aboard the Swissair flight. More than 600 relatives visited the monument yesterday, one day short of the one year anniversary of the disaster. 
Families mourn victims of crash 
As.ociated Press 
PEGGY'S COVE 
Families of those who pnrishnd last year on Swissair Flight 111, which crashed off the coast of' this tiny fishing village, dPdicatcd a monumfrnt Wednnsday to tho victims and those who hnlped recover their remains. 
During a solemn dedica­tion ceremony on a remote bluf'I' overlooking St. Margaret's Bay, morn than 
800 family members joined 
2.00 volunteers and mili­tary o!Ticials who had recovered human remains. 
.Just a day short of the one-year anniversary, the families silently disem­barked from a caravan of buses near the monument und crowded together on boulders, forming a silhou­
etted  line  against  the  
cloudless  sky  and  the  
sparkling sea.  

Their sheer numbers were a startling reminder of the scope of the air dis­
aster -which killed all of the 229 peuple aboard the plane. 
During tho ceremony. Peggy Coburn, whosn hus­band Hicharcl had been on the New York-Gnneva flight, thanked the vil­lagers and military oflicials who, she said, had " helped and cared" after the crash. 
"If I ever need strength or comfort, all I will need to do is remember you, and I will gain strength and I will be coml"orted," 
said Coburn, who lives in New York. 
Somn wopt as Hoyal C:anadian Mounted Police Inspector Andy Arsenault sang a ballad. called "Hoses on the Hocks," which had been written for the or.ca­sion. The mourners laid !lowers on lhe rocks sur­rounding the monunrnnt. 
The monum1rnt, which was designed with input from tlw families and Urn villagers. consists of two halves of a 6-foot tall gran­itP stonn. 

Palestine, Israel approach agreement 
A.~socialed Press 
.IEHUSALEM 
Working hard to ov1H­come 11th-hour snags, lsnrnlis and Palestinians approachPd agreement Wndnesday on a land-l'or­sccurity deal that set a one­year rl,•ad Iirrn f'or enrl ing cfocadcs of hostility. 
Alfor a stormy day. marked both by shouted ultimatums and grins of optimism, talks closed in the evening with differences over a promised Israeli rnlease of Palestinian pris­oners still unresolved. 
Each side said the ball 
was in the other's court. and it was not clear if they would meet again early Thursday ahead of Secretary of State Madeleinn Albright's arrival in Egypt to attend a signing ceremony. 
"There is a desire to have peace," Albright told reporters as she flew to Morocco on Wednesday. "There is a sense we have to move on. And what I want to do is to play a fruit­ful role." 
On the main issue divid­ing them. negotiators said they had whittled down the'ir difforences to just 30 prisoners: Israel was ready to rnlease :no prisoners: the Palestinians insisted on 400. 
Two items that had vexed Prime Minister Ehud Barak's pl!-1dge to revive Wye were resolved: a timetable for an Israeli withdrawal from B percent more of the West Bank and a deadline for a final status agref'ment. 
The new deadline for a permanent Palestinian­Israeli accord would be a year after the re-launch of Wye -meaning Septmnber 2000 if all goes well this week. 
At the talks through the day Wednesday, tempers 
were frayed -the nngotia­to rs had pulled an all­nighter from Tuesday nvening. Shouting could occasionally be heard in the corridors. HepnatHd calls wnrn made to Egyptian l1iadnrs. who havn actnd as nrndiators. 
Palestinian lnador Yass(ir Arafat cut short his visit to return to thn rngion to direct his negotiators. 
Talks nndnd in the evening. when the Israeli Cabi1wt hold a s<1ssion that lastPd until midnight. 
After the Cabinet meeting. Barak spokesman David Ziso said Israel was "still waiting for answers." 

page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 2, 1999 
Task force plans to educate on sweatshops 
By MAGGY TINUCCI 
News Writer 
A summer of planning and learning by Notre Dame's Task Force nn Anli-sweatshop Initiatives 
led to a fall of imp I e ­men ting what they learned through confer­ences and 


work in Hoye lhP field. 
A University symposium on fair labor issues will I.Je offerPtl to the campus com­munity this fall. Notre Dame also will play a significant role in a major conference on the living wage to be held at the University of Wisconsin­Madison in November. 
The fall symposium. avail­able to studPnts as a one­crodit course, is directed by Todd Whitmore, associate professor of theology. The class will provide an opportu­nity for in-depth discussion on several sweatshop issues. 
"It will give us a chance to look at the issues the task force discusses in an academ­ic sense," said Bill Hoye, asso­ciate vice president and coun­sel and task f'orce chairman. "It will give emphasis to the particular issues." 
Thomas Swartz, prof'essor of economics. and Whitmore -both task fon'.11 members ­participatrd in a planning s1"s­sion this summer al Uni\•ersity of Wisconsin­l\fadison for a November con­ference to discuss living and will draw people together and promote discussion," said Maria Cannalis, pn1sident of the Graduate Student Union and participant in the task force's summer trip to El Salvador. 
One responsibility of the University's task force is .to invesligate the idea of a living wage in countries which man­ufacture apparel. 
"That is difficult because you must take into account the different traditions and c.ultures in each countrv, dif­ferent standards of living and different ways of calculating the wage," said Cannalis. 
"It requires a projection of morality on each socio-eco­nomic system. What's right for some isn't right for oth­ers,·· she said. 
A major issue is determin­ing whether a wage should support one, two or a family. 
"Our system of two bread­winners isn't the case else­whcrn," he said. "Is it right to impose our system on oth­ers'!" 
The symposium will also include several davs of work­shops, different from the for. ma\ conference. Notre Dame will present the topic of moni­toring factories. 
"How do you effectively determine if a factory is treat­ing its workers well?" is the question which ,,vill be addressed. according to Lee Tavis. Smith professor of fi mmce. 
Prnsenters at the semester­1on g lecture seril's will include various task force members as well as David Schilling of the lnierfaith Center for Corporate Responsibility, Michael Posner of the Lawyer's Committee on I-Iuman Rights, Randy Rankin of PriccwatcrhouseCoopers LLP. Christine Firer llinze, Marquette University faculty member and author of "Making a Good Living: Rethinking the Family Wage in the Twentieth Century" and former St. John's Lniversity assistant soccer coach James Keady, who resigned his posi­tion over sweatshop-related issues. 
Sessions will be held on six Mondays beginning Sept. 13 from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
MIAA heavily aids recruiting effort 
By MOLLY MCVOY 
Assisranr Sports Editor 
To incoming freshmen ath­letes and Saint Mary's coach­ing staff thP recruiting possibil­ities due to joining the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association are sub­stantial. 
The current freshman class is an impressive group of ath­letes, according to Jini Cook, assistant athletic director. 
"The freshmen coming in will make an immediate impact," Cook said. "They will push our teams into the limelight of the conference." 
Even as a provisional mem­ber, Saint Mary's recruiting increased in all sports. During their two-year temporary membership in the MIAA. the ability to bring in quality ath­letes improved. 
"Our recruitment of quality student-athletes has risen 30 percent over Lhe pasL two 
years." Cook said. 
Admission into the confer­ence offers many benefits to Saint Mary's athletics. A stable schedule and the opportunity for post-season play are just some of the advantages to being a member of the MIM. 
The golf, soccer. swimming and basketball teams have all seen a substantial increase in the numbPr of first-year play­ers on the roster Of the 60 athletes competing in Saint Mary's sports this fall. one­third are freshmen. 
Even teams that had no increase in the number or new players this season saw an improvement in their quality, explained Cook. 
"I think it helps to be µart of' a conference," golf coach Theresa Pekarek said. "Ir we have a good team, µeoµle want to be a part of us, hut being in a conference does help." 
Recruiting highly-touted ath­letes is not the only factor which is important to Saint Mary's athletics. 
With the admission into a solid academic and athletic conference. the College also is looking for an increase in aca­demically-strong athletes as well 
"Now that we're a perma­nent member, we'll improve not only athl13tically, but also academically," Cook said. "It's an honor to play with other athletes who have tough acad­emics like Saint Mary's." 
Saint Mary's athletes have already proven that they belong in a strong academic conference like tlrn MIA/\. Last year, the Belles had 29 Ml/\;\ scholar-athletes, mainly due to Saint Mary's emphasis on aca­demic pcrl'ormanc£\ when recruiting an athlete. 
"We look for athletes with a strung GPA and strong athletic skills." slrn explainPrl. "BccausP we can't pay them, we look f'or athletes who still love the sport and want to compete because they do love ii." 

Grad wins Ms. Wheelchair crown 
By LAURA ROMPF 
1'.ews Wrirer 
Dawn Parkot, a 1995 alumna of the University of Notre Dame and a current graduate student has been named Ms. Wheelchair New Jersey 1999. 
'Tm extremely Pxcitcd and gratified being crowned Ms. Wlwnlchair New Jersey," said Parkot. · 
Parkot, diagnosnd with cere­bral palsy at birth, is also legal­ly blind and usns a spncial device to help her relay her words. 
"fWinning the pageant] serves to prove that someone who has a severe speech disability can still be a spokesperson and an activist for the disabled commu­nity," Parkot said. 
The Ms. Wheelchair program seeks to find the most accom­plished and articulatP s1lokespcrson, a person who can break down barriers and increase awarP1rnss for millions of' individuals with disabilitil\S. 
Parkot is r.urrnntly trying lo accomplish tl1is goal at Notn' Dame as slw urges evmy stu­dent to int1\racl with tlw dis­abl(id. 
"Be the sanrn lo a disab lPd pnrson as you would be to any­one else," l'arkot said. 
C:andida!Ps in the compPtition are judged on tlwir academic, vocational and personal accom­plishments, their communica­tion skills and their ability to serve as an advoratP !'or 1wr­sons with disabilili(\S. 
l'arkot madn tlw Dean's I.isl as a Notrt' Danw studPnl and graduatPd <'Um laud!' with a d1!grP<' in matlwmatics. Slw was tlH' first studPnl with multi­p!(' disabilitiPs at tlw Uniwrsity. 
"Being an unclPrgrad was great. Tlw rnception in tlw dorm was fantastir and l'XCl'l­lent. 1 loved dorm lifo." l'arkot said. 

wages for apparel factory workers. 
The conference goal is to det1~rmine a system to calcu­late living wage levels for work(irs in different coun­tries. 
''The question is whether there is a way lo calculate a living wage in each country," said Hoye. 
At the conference, task force members will discuss monitoring of apparel facto­ries, and Whitmore will pre­sent Catholic social teaching on the wage issue as part of a panel on the politics and legit­imacy of the living wage. 
"The conference is a start 

All Students intere9tf din joining the Men's and Women's Track Team: 
Informational Meeting 
Wed.Sept.8'th@4: 

Loftus Audit 



1999 Business Career Forum 
MBA, MS in Accountancy and Undergraduate Students are invited to meet representatives from over 100 companies! 
Thursday, September 9 

For Seniors, 2nd Year and 3 Semester MBA's, and MS in Accountancy Students Career Forum, 6 PM to 8:30 PM 
Friday, September 10 

For lst Year MBA's, Juniors, Sophomores and Freshmen Career Forum,, l 0:00 AM to 3 :30 PM Information Sessions, 9:35 AM to 3:00 PM 
Location: Throughout the COBA Building 
Dress Code: Business Casual to Business Formal 
Thursday, September 2, 1999 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 7 ----===.=:-=.::::::-:::_=:==: 

Dean Roche takes leave of absence 


and Lnttnrs faculty last year. "For need to troat the students well." 
Hy MIKE ROMANCHEK 
llw past two years I havo sacri­Following his year as acting 
News Wntrr ficed virtually all rcs()arch time to dean, Fox also will take a leave of 
sd prioriticis, address complex absence to continue research on 
Assuciatl' dPan Chris Fox will issuns, introduc11 initiatives and unfinished projects, including a l'Pplal'I! Mark Bodw. d,1a11 or lhl' inslilulionalizn rrnw practicns." book on .Jonathan Swif't for the Coll1!gc of' Arts and l.ctlcrs. who Fox was l"ormcrly the ,1ssociatc Cambridge Press. is laking a orw­dmrn for the Coll1ige of Arts and Boche emphasized the impor­y,qr lnavn of Lottcrs faculty and rosearch. tance of faculty research. ahsH11c1! to "I am acting dm.tn but thal's not "Many liberal arts colleges have (' o m ll IPl,. a to be inl11r1Hr.tcd as a passive a tradition whereby faculty rotate book lw started dean," said rox. "I don't plan lo into and out of administrative lrnfor<' joining treud watnr. 1 want to movfl us positions and continue as scholars Llw N0Lr1• Da11w forward." twffn as Lh1•y serve in these posi­adminislrulion Fox µ!ans to continue improve­tions. Many large rnsearch univer­two yoars ago. ments for tlrn Coll<i,l{n of Arts and sities hav<1 professional adminis­
"Al I lwugh l.ottl'l's, which has morn students trators, who must abandon their <Hljoy 111y work but loss funding than any of' research liecausc their jobs arr. so as d <' a 11 , I d P University's olt111r collcg(ls. complex and demanding," Roche not wanl to rc-li11q11ish my sdrnlar­lmprov,rnrnnts include a slrcnglh­said. "Notre Damo is somewhere ly i11LPr1•sls or l1•av1• a parlially t\lrnd commilnrnnl LO Lim Core pro­between the two, and that has led 1:11mpl<'l«>d book u11titt1111tl1!d f'or gram and requiring all f'rP-shman me to adopt lhis unconv1rntional liv1· y1iars," Hoclw said. seminars Lo be taught by regular strategy of a mid-term leave." 
Tim 11\uvn or absnncn co1111is faculty. "l have completii conlitlence that al'lt\r just tw,, y<'ars in his position. "(;rad studnnts, adjuncts and he will continue leading the hut Hodw's d1•cisio11 is not a :-.ur­part-limers have, in a lot o.f ways, College in the directions it bus pris1•. contributml well to th(l educational taken during my tirst two years," 
··lluring tlw snard1 procpss and mission of tlw University. llut I Hodrn said of Fox. i11 111y arr1•pta11co ln!Wr to the think, all things considornd, stu­Fox's l'ormer position will be provost. I madP il dnar that I dl'nts d(•servP full-tinw !'acuity in filled bv Julia Douthwait11, who wisl11•d lo <·ontinw· as a s1'!10lar." L1111s1: 4•ourscs," l;ux said. "It's has been a professor or French at H1wlrn said i11 a nwmo lo llrn Arts s11mNhi11g all sludnnts doservo, we Notre Dame since 1991. 
Come play
with all the Iatest toys. 
• • T • • • • .,....
D M
ata 1n1ne ,oyr • • • • • 

Web Denen Toys
• 
Server Toys 
When you w at State Far State Jarm lnformafion Technoloeies
Information ¢ 
• 
Technologies, y 
work with some of the ••• 
Former dean 
and alum dies, leaving legacy 
By KRISTEN FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 
John Malone, prof',~ssor of mark,iting sincn 1952 and a founding director of the Mastnrs of Businoss Administration progra111, died Sunday af'tor a series of strokes. 
Malone, 78, died at St. .Joseph's lfogional Medical Centnr. 
".John was always upboat and in good humor," said E<lward Truhac, assistant doan ol' th1\ College of' Business Administration. "111~ was a bright individual who was cnjoyabln to be around. Even when Im bncame· ill, lrn retained his character." 
Malone will be remembered for his t1fforts and contributions to the University. 
"His legacy will be continued throu!{h tho growth of the MBA program," Trubac says. 
Mass for Malorrn was celcbratnd Wndrrnsday at the Basilica of the Sacred llnart. Ho is sur­vived by Ellen, his wife of 5:~ years, his broth­er .lames, five daughters and one son. 
Malone graduated from Notrn Dame in 1942 with a bachelor's degree in f'inancn. llll went on to earn his master's of business adminis­tration degrne from Harvard Univ<!rsity in 1946 and earned his doctoratn in marketing from tho University of Chicago in 1963. 
Malone worknd in the private sector and taught at the University of Toledo bdorn he was called back lo Notre Dame as an assistant profossor of marknting in 1952. Hn lulnr became associatn professor in 1956 and was made full professor in 1965. 
Malone did nol limit his career s1wcif'ically to teaching. Ile conducted research in indus­trial marketing and also filled a varinty of administrative positions at Notre Danrn. lie served as chair of the marketing departnrnnl in 1954, assistant dean of thn business collegn in 1962, and associate dean and dirnctor of the MBA program in I%7 . 
Along with his many rnsponsibilities in tlrn College of Business, Malone helped to estab­lished Notre Dame's London MBA program for third-semester students. He also helped dPvnl­op the University's Supervisory Developmnnt Program, a 15-week continuing nducation course for managnment personnel of' compa­nies and organizations in the South Bnnd area. 
lln also founded the Michiana Chaptnr of' the American Marketing Association as wnll as th c Nation a I Assoc iat ion of' BII s irm s s Economists. 

most powerful computer systems known to man. Advanced servers and intranet applications. Innovative m1ddleware and databases. Development tools that push the limits. And for those who prefer retro toys, we still have mainframes to keep you busy well beyond Y2K. 
• 

Interested in an IT career at State Farm? Visit us at www..1tatefarm.com/c,reers/. Please refer to job code TOYS/CS when e-mailing or faxing your resume. 
Recycle Me. 

E-mail: HRSF@STATIFARM,COM or FAX: 309·763-2831. 
Stale Furn Insurance Com~anies • Home Offices: Bloomington. lllinoi.1 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, September 2, 1999 
Dining hall 
rules, IDeal 
plans shift 
By ALISA SCHMITT New, Writer 
The Noble Family l)ining Hall will include new meal plans and new hours this year. 
The Carte Blanche plan allows for unlimited access into the dining hall and $10 in "Munch Money" per semester. Tim new plan also offers Option 14. a meal program for students who may not eat as often in the din­ing hall. 
"Option 14 is a good change, because I don't cat scheduled meals, so it makes things a littl1c1 easier." said freshman Courtney Knobloch. 
Option 14 allows for 14 meals per week and $100 in "Munch Money." which can be used at The Crossings -Haggar College Conter's snack bar -and at the dining hall. \\'hen students use the credit al the dining hall. they receive 25 percent off the nor­mal selling price. 
"Students wanted alternatives. One meal [planI didn't work for everyone," Kevin Kirwan, direc­tor of dining services, said. "Option 14 gives the students a little more 11exibility." 
The former food plan, which is still available, consisted of 19 meals per week and $10 in "Munch Money." 
A new sandwich bar unit was installed at The Crossings, mak­ing it similar to a Subway or Blimpie's restaurant. A hot food unit was also put in to offer homestyle-cooking to "Evening Express." 
Although the dining hall is clos1!d on weekdavs from ~:30 
0

p.m. to 4:30 p.rn., its wn<1kcnd hours are PxtendPd. It now will open at 4:30 p.m. and close at 7 p.m. 
Entrees in the dining hall will be available un_til 7 p.m. during the week. Evening Express hours were extended from 8:30 
p.m. to 10:30 p.m. 
The new changes are aimed to give the students more options and a little more buying power. Kirwan said. 
Along with new additions come new rules. Students are now ·required to leavB their backpacks on racks in the lobby before entering the dining hall. The purpose of this. Kirwan said, is to cut back on students "packing out" food from tlrn din­ing hall. 
"I can see if they had the room in thnre, but right now it makes things-inconvenient to have bags lying all over the floor," sopho­more Amanda Spica said about the new backpack rule. 
The new rule changes were made bv administrators and Food S1;rvices. Students now must enter and exit from the front of the dining hall because thn back doors are newly equipped with alarms and can be us,id only as emergency flxits. 
NEWS: 1-5323. 

INDONESIA 
Pro-Indonesian men, East Timorese clash 
Associated Press 
DlLl 
Armed with homemade guns, rif1es and machetes. hundreds of pro­Indonesia militiamen clashed with rock­throwing independence supporters Wednesday outside U.N. headquarters in East Timor. One teen-ager was stabbed and bludgeoned to dP.ath. 
The violence came on the same day ballots from a historic referendum on the territory's futurP were being count­ed. 
The militiamen. some wearing red­and-whitc headbands in Indonesia's national colors, shot and mutilated a 19­year-old at the gates of the U.N. com­pound, killing him. 
At least three others were injured in the militiamen's biggest show of force yot, and the violence raised fears that the former Portuguese colony could slide back into lawlessness. 
U.S. and U.N. officials strongly criti­cized Indonesia's slow response to the violence. 
Indonesian riot police, meanwhile. secured the museum building in Oili, where ballot counting started 
Wednesday. The U.N.-sponsored ballot on Monday had asked the mostly Homan Catholic East Timorese whether they wanled to become independent or remain part of mostly Muslim Indonesia as an autonomous region. 
Pro-independence activists say the large voter turnout on Monday -98.6 percent -means a landslide victory for independence. The results of the ballot are expected next week. 
East Timor has been a province of Indonesia since being invaded in 1975. After decades of human rights abuses and international condemnation. Jakarta reversed policy in January and announced East Timor would be given the right of self-determination. 
In recent weeks. leaders or several militias fighting for continued Indonesian rule vowed nut to recognize a defeat in the polls and said they would demand their own enclave. The United Nations last week flatly rejected the con­cept. 
Some of these vigilantes erect<1d road­blocks Wednesday throughout western East Timor, trying to carve out a zone of control. Foreign obsl~rvers accuse hard­li1rn factions within Indonesia's armed forces of arming and directing the mili­tias. 
Wednesday's violence erupted after hundreds of vigilantl~s gathered at a funeral for a militiaman in Dili. At the rally, militia leader Eurico Gutcrrns called for "eternal peace and stability in East Timur." 
But a few hours later. dozens of para­militaries gathered to protest in front of the headquarters or the Unitod Nations, which thoy claim riggnd the nlections. When conl'ronted by rock-throwing inde­pendence supporters, the vigilantes opened fire. · 
A taxi carrying journalists to tho scene was fired on and militiamen smashed its rear window. 
Dark smoke billowed from a raging fire in a nearby shack they had set ablaze. 
Militiamen tripped and surrounded 01111 indcpendr.ncc activist, shooting at him as he fell to the ground. They then struck him with rifles and slaslrnd him with machetes. killing him. 
A local nurse identified him as 19­year-old Jorgr!s Fransisco BonapartP. The attackers then hurled rocks at journalists, sending some fleeing into tho 
U.N. compound, whern about 150 pnople sought safety. 


State releases deadliest drunk driver 
< WWW-WWW______.. ....... WWW CP 

-SW 
' 

·-a.... 
Thursday, September 2, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Detroit teacher strike continues in district 

Associated rrcss 
I.A GB.ANGE, Kv. 

Till' man convicted in tl1n nation's doadlioi,;t dru11kP11 dri­ving 111:ridcnl -a fi1iry. lwad­11n rnllision that killed 27 pno­pln on u church bus -was ri•l1\1uwd l'rom prison WPdrnisduy alfor 9 1/2 y,iars 1111d is frrni Lo gnt anotlwr dri­wr's li1:P11S1!. 
Larry Mahoney, 4<>. was dri­v1•11 awuy in !Im back snat ol' a 1·ai-. carrying his bdongings in tw11 brown papnr bags. lln said noLhing. 
"It is my impression lhal lw wa11ls lo bl1n1cl back into sod­Ply ," '-aid slat!\ policP l.l. IfPnry "So1111y" C1\asn, who invcsligat­<•d th1• 11188 nnsh that Ind K!'nlllrky lo tightnn its stan­d,irds t,1r school busns. ··1 think h"'" donP tlw lime· that was dPali to him and it's time to IIIOVH on. 
Maho111•y. his blood-nkohol lnvcl thrn11 tinws lhc ltigal lilllil. wus driving his pickup truck thn wrong way on a11 intNstatn wht>n lw s111aslwd inLo a bus rarryi11g (,7 pPnpll• h11nw l'rom a r.hurd1 outing to an amuse­ment park. Thn bus· gas tank rupturnd, and llamns engulfed tlw front sect.ion. 
Ttw ft1rmcr clwmical plant worker was convicted of manslaughter and sontl'nced to 16 ynars in prison buL got time off for good bd1avior and taking courses. 
Aftor the wrnck, Kuntucky changed its siwcilications ro·r school lmsns, n1quiring them to have llame-rutardant s1mt.s, ruol tank cages, push-nut windows. (,,ft-side emergency exits and nscape hatches in th(1 roof. FPdPral law hact alrPady rcquirnd f'uol tank cages 011 busns nmnul'actun•d aft<'r 1977. 
Fore.I. which madn the bus, also snltlnd a lawsuit with 65 of tlw families, rnporttidly for at least $3(, million. 
Aft,•r Mahonny was turrrnd down for parnln in 1997, ho chose to snrve out his sentence and IPf'l prison with no restric­lio ns or roµorting rcquiro­nwnts. Ile can nvHn get a dri­ver's lit:ons,i if lw dncidns lo do 
so. Kentucky law dons not pro­hibit ronvirtPd l"nlons l'rom dri­
~CIIT HEIE AND HANG ON DOORKNOB 
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
:;  , ..,  
I  ,,'"  
I:  / ,'  
I  :  
:  :  
I  ~  
:  \  

I \ 

-r-----• --• ----------------, 
........ -.. J. .. -....... 
........ 
",,. 
\ 
ving, evfln those convicted of causing a drunken driving­rnlated death. Driving records am expunged after five years of no incidents, so Mahoney can apply for a learner's pnrmil and take thn exam if ho chooses to do so. 
Stato Hop. Hob Wilkey, who unsuccessf'ully sponsorod legis­lation last year to increase pnnallies for drunken driving, said that aflnr someone serves his sentence. tm should be able to make a living. and driving is almost a necessity to hold down a job. 
"In light ol' his rolease, that is an issue we in the General Assembly ought to look at," he added. 
Mahoney is bolinvod to be staying with his parents, who live in his former hometown of Worthville not far from the crash, which took placn oul'iide Carrollton. 
"Larry Mahonny, no mattf'r what Im is labeled, should be gratnl'ul he can go back to some sol't of' a normal lifc," said Karolyn Nunnallce, whose Len ymtr-old daughter Patty was the youngt!st victim to die. 
: \ / 
I \ / I ',. i'
: ............ _.,.-'
I ., ___.,._,.­
1 I 

I Dear _____ the grouch, 
I 
r 
I I 
r 
r 

I There's something you should know. In 
r 

r the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy.
I 
r 

I And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
J 

So, because Ilike you, may Isuggest you start the day with a CROISSAN'WICH' from BURGER KING'. It's filled with mouthwatering 
sausage, egg and cheese, And that should make anyone less cranky. Even you. If itdoosn't, 
then we're on to Plan B. And you don't want 
to know Plan B. 

Sincerely, ______ 

THE DELICIOUS CROISSAN'WICH." 
The Hl.ddlo • lofcxtune Student Gent..­
a.#)A 
~­
It just tastes better.· 
www burgerking com LIMITED TIME ONLY PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. 
C,1!111!) IU1G£R klNflCORPOAAllON llK,l1l ""' COl1l'OP.\lnj1S 11£ EXCWSM LC(NSEE C'l 11£ 'Ir JUST TASTES ernrR· TTWlHM~ l,NIJ Tl£ REGISTERED BUAGrn KING. CROISSAHWICH »JD BUN H,11.VES LOGO TTWJ£JMPJ(S 
I I 
T T 
I 
~ 
: 
I 
\ :I 
\ I 
! 
! 
! 
,' 
A.sodatcd Pres, 
DETllOIT 
Hodnricus Hayford's chil­drf'n should havn becrn in schuol Wednesday. 
Instead, nine of his niecP.S, nephews. children and neigh­bors sat on his front porch as a teacher strike kept kids out of class and parenls strug­gling to find ways 
ed last spring by Mayor Dennis Ardrnr. 
The teachers went on strike Tuesday on what should hav<1 been the first day of classes in the 172,000-student district. 
The teachers' main sticking points are a longer school day and school year, the adminis­tration's proposals that would tic merit pay lo school p,~rfor­rn an ce and a requirement that aftnr a cnr­tain number of 
to keep "They shouldn't be sick days,
t h e m 
teachers must
asking for more money
occupied. 
provide a doc­
Though until they can prove 
tor's note to Hayford, they 're teaching our qualify for 33, said 
additional sick
kids."
he sup­days, said 
p o r t s 
union prnsidc~ntteachers Angela Banks 
John Elliott. 
and their 
school volunteer, mother Ile said he 
demands for small­er class sizes, more supplies and increased pay. he said he hopes lhey get back lo work soon. 
"Otherwise I'll get some signs for the kids. and wo'II all go picket out there with them saying, 'We want to go back.'" Rayford said, laugh­ing. 
Detroit's Belle Isle Zoo is offering free admission to all Detroit school kids for the duration of the strike. 
People's Community Services had closed down its summer programs a week ago, but associate director Lynne Thompson said all of the centers are now open again to accommodate the children. 
"Our cenlers are up and running with full staff. and we will be open for the dura­tion of the strike," she said. 
The union, which repre­sents about 9,200 classroom teachers, voted Monday to reject a Len-day contract nxtnnsion recommended by a reform school board appoint­
hadn't heard 
any complaints from parents about lhe strike. the fourth by Dotroit toachors since 1982. 
"Most parents are not excil­e d yet." Elliott said Wednesday. "Usually the par­ents just make whatever adjustments thny need to make." 
But school voluntnnr AngPla Banks. 27, who has thrne children in Urn Dntroit school systnm. said she doesn't sup­port the strike or thn teach­ers. 
"They shouldn't be asking for more monny until they can prove they're teaching our kids," she said. 
Banks, who rode bikes with her kids Wednesday to pass the time, said shn might run into problems if teachers don't return to the classroom before she goes back to her own job next week. 
"I had planned on going back to school so this is putting a hold on my plans," said Tinnnn Myers. whose 7­year-old daughter is handi­capped. 
Puerto Ricans object to Navy establishment 
Associated Press 
SAN JUAN. Puerto Hico 
About 300 university stu­dents invaded a library and protested outside a Reserve Ol'licers Training Corps build­ing Wednesday in a protest against the U.S. military. 
"Go to hell, Navy!" the stu­dents at the University of' Puerto Hico shouted, Tlrny pounded drums and waved banners calling for the mili­tary to abandon its contro­versial training ground on the outlying Caribbean island of Viequm;. 
Others called for the United States to stop army recruiting efforts at colleges. They also demanded the Unitnd Slates !'re,~ 16 Puerto Rican nation­al ists jailed some 20 years ago for sedition in connection with morP than 130 bombing attacks on tlrn U.S. mainland. Six pt•ople wern killed in those bombings. 
Students urged support for fornrnr professor Josn Solis Jordan, who was sentencnd in July to 51 months in 
prison for bombing a U.S. Army recruiting center in Chicago. 
President Clinton has offered to free 11 of the 16 prisoners if they rcnouncn violence and meet other con­ditions. Many in Punrto Hico have called the conditions ­which would nffectively bar them from meeting other pro-indnpendnncn activists ­humiliating. 
On Sunday, thousands of demonstrators marched in the capital, San Juan, to demand Clinton give Lim pris­oners an unconditional par­don. The prisorrnrs. members of two guerrilla groups, hav,i not responded lo Clinton's offor. 
Wednesday's studnnt protest wound past an anti­military mural and through the library and nnd1HI at a HOTC builciing, 
"They Ithn military I should l<mvo our campus, l1rnvn our Vinqucs. and lnav,i our cm1n­try," shouted Carlos Ivan Vargas. a spokesman for tlw l'twl'to Hkan lrulnp<•nclnn/'P Party's youth branch 



_asz % •-~' & 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
BSERYER Thursday, September 2, 1999 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. &,x Q. Nom: lJ,mc. !N 46>% 0Z4 South [)ining Hall. Nurre Dam,. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN C!IIEF Michelle Krupa 

MA,',AG!NC EnnoR  l.\l'SINESS M-.NAGER  
M. Shannon Ryun  David Rogcro  
As.ST. MANAC!NG EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughcn SrORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAlNl: MAI.Y'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PH01·0 EorroR, Ke,·in [)alum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Brya11 l .utz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR, Michael Revers Wu ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushm 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAx........... ........ ... ... .. .................6.~ 1-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!EF........................................631-4542 MANAGJNG EDJTORIAssT. ME.. ..................6.31-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT...............................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................63 l-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.............. ..............................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAlNT MARY'S ... .............................. 631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINJSTRA TORS... .. ..........'631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://obsm,er.nd.ed11 for daily updates of.mpus news, sports. features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/ music for 

minme forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
onlinc features for spe­

and rares ofprim .1ds 
cial campus coverage 

archives ro search for 
about The Observer 

articles published alter 
ro meet the editors and 

August 1999 
sralf 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edi rorial content is nor governed by policies of the adminiscrarion ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer. rhe administration ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement of alcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The aews is reported as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisranr Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views "fthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letter, is encouraged. 
Q11tmom rtgardmg Obttroer policies should be dirtct­rd to Editor in Chit[Mirhtf!r Krupa. 
I am rewriting most of this after being with many of you Tuesday during Activities Night at the Joyce Center. What an energizing experience! Thanks and gracias to the Student Activities Office for sponsor­ing the event for Rev. Don hundreds wilh the McNeil!, C.S.C. support of Rec Sports, Center for 
For a More
Social Concerns, 
Just And
Club Coordination Council and many Humane World other partners from on and off campus. I especially enjoyed conversations with students exploring how their gifts and energy could be sharnd in areas of need in South Bend and beyond. 
I am grateful to The Observer that the Center for Social Concerns will again have the opportunity for a bi-weekly column. I am confident that we will continue to provide quality explorations and discussions of issues. challenges, and controversies around the part of our mission statement which states " ... calling us all to service and action for a more just and humane world." The col­umn will be from the perspective of our CSC staff. students, faculty, alumni/ae and others who have participated in our mission over the years. 
A brief word of introduction: I am Executive Director of the Center for Social Concerns, a member of the Department of Theology, a r(:lsident in McG!inn Hall, a Holy Cross priest and a Notre Dame grad of '58. I have had the privilege of teaching and developing programs related to experiential and service learning over the past three decades. Students, faculty and staff returning from these mission-based experiences continue to teach and chal­lenge me. 
My focus today is on Mission-Based Partnerships, how they are critical for our Center mission and the mission of Notre Dame and how partners off-cam­pus can often challenge us to new view­points and experiences of transforma­tive education which need to be shared upon return. The students' learning brings to life a specific part of the 
University's mission statemeilt 
(Colloquy 2000) as a call to a " ... disci­
plined sensibility to the poverty, injus­
tice and oppression that burden the lives of so many. The aim is to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to jus­tice." 
We at the Center and Notre Dame are enriched each year by the increasing number of participants living out this mission at Notre Dame, locally, nation­ally and globally. All of our multiple programs, courses and seminars would be impossible without many mission­based partners and partnerships off­campus. I want to explore with you on the importance of creative partnerships which enhance our ND/CSC Mission and the missions of other units on campus. 
Below I will highlight two major pro­gram partnerships which enhance the l\D/CSC mission. These seminars and courses are linked with the dcpartnrnnt of theology. Some are cross-listed. Two other mission-based partnerships will be summarized. Ads, posters and fur­ther columns with more comprehensive information will be shared in the weeks ahead. 
Summer Service Projects/Programs: 234 students have recently returned from 8-10 weeks of national and international programs of service learn­i~g. It is a privilege to read their jour­nals, papers and listen to their stories, like our CSC staff did yesterday morn­ing, of how the partner sites were teachers. Alumni Club representatives are critical partners in most sites. These site partners and their communi­ties of need challenged students' per­spectives and concerns about poverty, injustice, oppression, solidarity, racism, child abuse, community organizing, etc. Current students are part of a 40-year tradition of summer service experi­ences which transformed studimts before them, including Monk Malloy, 
C.S.C. in the early ·6os. We are pleased that 18 students could learn with international partner sites in 8 different countries at 12 sites this summer. 
Social Concerns Seminars: Please request a copy of our recent brochure on "Interdisciplinary and Sorvicc Learning with ND Partners Across the World." I will indicate most of the semi­nar titles, approximate number ofstu­dents and sites brdow. Ph~ase imagino approximately 700 students linked with 70 partner sites last year: 
Appalachia (:300 studcnts/15 sites); Cultural Diversity ( 12/1 ); Childrnn and Poverty (24/2): L1~adership Issues ( 12/11: Washington, D.C. (40/11; Church and Social Action: Urban Plungo C300/50l; Holy Cross Mission (15/2); Border lssuns (6/2); Mexico (12/1 ); Marcnlo (Chile I (5/1); Haiti; (8/1 ); Civil Bights (8/many); L'Arche, Toronto ((Jl ); Migrant Experi<~nces (12/1 ). 
South Bernd and Post Graduate Service Sites: USA and Global include approximatdy 60 partner sites/pro­grams each year. In South Bend, com­munity-based partnerships provid!' "cit­izenship" education for around 2,000 undergraduates in sPrvil:P lt\arning, social action, community d1wl'!opnwnt, and faith-basml programs. Around 11)0 graduating snniors continuP th!'ir sN­vic,~ and !)ducation with 40 dif'forPnt partner programs at PVPn morn sitPs. Many am with l'aith-basPd groups living out "a procPss of transforming Church and society in light ol' thP Cosp!il" (lnstitutn for Church Life of ND mission stat1imn11tl. 
In conclusion, l challnnge all of you to sen and cxpPriPncn your ['dlow studPnts as partners for positiv1) change and call()d to explorn rww ways to bring about a morci just and humane) world. Please tak1\ the opportunity to talk with some of tlw studcmts and alumni/a<) who have bnPn transformed by tlw encounters with p()opln in tlw mission­based partnerships mentioned abovn. They would lovp to be ask!1d! I hop!) all of' us becomn morn passionatn mission­based part1rnrs for change rootnd in Gospel values and acting on our trans­formative education. P11ace! 
"May you b!i blessed with passion and may you follow it all your lif1L" -II/den Prejean, CSJ 
Father Don McNeil! is the }<mnder and Executive Director ofthe Center }<ir Social Concerns. For a More Just and Humane World is a bi-weekly column sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. Comments and discussions are welcome al N!J.ndcntrsc.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the attllzor and not neces­sarily those of The Obseruer. 

DILBERT 
EVER'{ EM.P\..O'{Et GETS ,.,_ LOVELY MUG 
WITH OUR NEW 
MOTTO I "I !"\AO£. 
A. 0!FFE.RENCE." 


SCOTT ADAMS 
! HAVE. ~UC, THAT SA.YS, ''! 
DIDN'T MAKE 
D1FfE.R£NCE''? 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"As a Catholic, I thank God for the heretics. Heresy is only another word for freedom ofthought. " 
Graham Greene British Catholic author 

VIEWPOINT 
O
IIIE Thursday, September 2, 1999 BSERVER page I I 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Being Catholic means being open 
0111' ol' tlw dilfo:ulti1is ol' boiug Catholic, or lH'ing dPoply rPligious in any l'aith, is that wn an• constantly rnnl'ronlnd with dilT1iring lwlids and ic!Pologil's. II' Not.rn Damn worn a placP wl11•n1 stlHIP11ls could liVP DUI. tlwir daily liv11s wit.i'm11L"1ivPr Pn1·.01111t1~ring argumnnts about abol'lion. birth r.ontrol. t.lm ordination ol' wornnn. lwmosnxuality, or any of thn issuos on whil'h llw Church takns a stand, thnn tlrny would 1wvPr havo to look d1H1p1H" into their own t'ai'th and think about what llwy rnally bnliev1i. Tlw rl'alitv of tlw world is that tlwsn arc issues whirh Noln• lla111n studnnls will h1) f'on:cd lo 1·011fr1111t. al 0111' point. or anot.lrnr in thoir liv1is. Tlw l'niwrsitv should ho a placn whnrri stu­dPnts PIH"ountl'r and PxpnriPncn diffonint vinws and wlwn• llwy can l'Xplorn new id1111s in a supporl.iv1• Calholi1· onvir1111nwnt that allows llwm Lo rninl'on'P tlwir own faith whil11 trying lo uncll'rstand ntlwr pnrspPctivns. 
Taking a gondor studies coursn wi.11 not cause students to renounce Catholicism. It will, how­nvnr, toach them how to nogotiato between tho lwlinl:-; lhey hold as Catholics (or l'rotnstants, Jews or Muslims} and tlrn IJnliPfs thriy cncounl1\r in tlrn "real wnrld." We have so fow role models for negotiating di!Tornnce in a true Christian rnamrnr. Hestricting open discussion that dons not promoto the views of the Church will onlv snrvr. to makn studrmts f'narful and wary of: otlwrs. Allowing these issues free reign 011 campus gives sludnnts tlw chancn to tnst tlwir l'ailh. and l'aith lnstod is l'ailh strengt.h­r.nr.d. 
Renee R. Trilling 
Gra<lu~rc Student Deparrment <Jf English September I. 1999 


ND has duty to guide student choices 
Kalil' llndd. an Pdilor for UV;\ student ncws­papl'I', rrilic-i11•s Notr" l>amP for its policy han­ni11g ad\'Prtisrn111•11ls rnntrary to Catholic lParh­ing..'-il11i.\Hil1·s. "B.v banning ndwrtisnm,·nts for <·1•rlain organizalions. Notl'I' Da1111) is aHmnpt­ing to s!<'Pl" studcints toward tlw rhoi1·­l'S th,• administration and tlw U111rd1 dc-1•111 appropriate," llodd suggPsts thnt u11iVPr­siti1·s sho11ld 11111 makn up sturlPnls' minds l'or ll1C•111 h11t .illow lhc-111 1111' opportu­nity to 11wk1• up tlwir 1>w11 Ill inels. Sounds nirl'. YPt. is it l.1"111' thal studPnt.s should makc up Llwir own lllinds about PVnry issup'! 
Dodd has writl1•11 in 1•ar­li" r «·di Io r ia Is llrnl LVA should ill!'J'<'aS1! its pro­grams for Jll"l'\'l'lll­ing sl'xual assault. Shi' appPars righl ly ro1H'C! r II I'd a bou l I. h n prohlPms of rapP on 
('.1)1­

IPgl' campusPs. II' a pro-rap,, unol'f'irial stuclPnt. organization wa11tPd to adv<•rlis<! in Llw campus llPwspapcr, 1wrhaps llodd would lw inclinncl to rn_jp1•t th,• advPrt.isP1111'11t. Tlw 1rnwspap1\r's• aclwrtis1•mnnt. policy sl.atl's: "The Cava!iN Daily l'l'StH"\Ps llw right lo n•f"usn any advnrtis1!11H1nl." SDm<' ol' 1·oursP would dnfond thn advertismnent sinrci it would ltiad t.o ca1111Jt1S discussion and st11c!Pnls havP a right lo makn up tlwir own minds about a rontrov<·rsial topic. This dnfonsn. howPVl'r. would hardly rnsrwct the many pno­plo who have sulTernd l'rom sexual assault and lrnvn 110 need to discuss its pros and cons. 
1'1!rhaps tlwso dofonders ol' the rape-ads would write. "By banning advertisements for certain organizations. Tlw Cavalier Daily is attPmpting to steer studnnts toward the choicns Orn newspapor and Katin Dodd deem approprialP." Of course the critics would be right. But so would the newspapnr and Katin Dodd. Hapn is wrong and Urn newspaper and Dodd want you to think so. Evcrv issue does not have a right to he debated 
in the forum ol' the university papN. 
Hape and homosnxual acts are cer­
tainly not equiv-a I e n t 
Nnvorthclr.ss, crit­icisms of ND's poli­cy should avoid generic appeals to stu­d en l's J'repdom of choice. Any university attempts lo steer its students toward certain choices. Don't 
steal. Don 'l rapn. Gel help when consid­nring suicick Notrn Dame has the right and the duty lo stPer its studonts toward cnrtain choic­es. Thny could not choose to do lnss. 
Michael Dauphinais 
Grnduar~ Srudem Department <>fThwlogy September 1, 1999 
All lettev-s to the edito-~ mtAst be less thaV\ 400 wo~ds. 


Wake up, you cowards and hypocrites! 
I am writing this lettPr out of my own selfish desirn for slncp. Tonight I went over to "Activities· Night" looking for some kind of good cause I could support and I found ii. lrnfore I even enterod th() build­ing. Members of Notro Dame's own community worn stancfirJg outside telling us all to wake up to our own attitudes on homo­sexuality. 
So, l am completely awake and its two o'clock in the·morn­ing and hopefully, aftnr I say this, I'll be ablr. to sleep tonight. I have been so wrong. Every tinrn l have laughed at a gay joke, poknd fun at homo­sexuality or failed to raisn my voice about the inclecnncins done to gays on this campus I have done Notrn Damn and myself a gre;1t disservice. No "Spirit of Inclusion" statmnent can erase the fact that this campus sends out "No (;ays Wantod" signals loud and clear. We sr.o gays in a commu­nity by themselves and as try­ing to challenge what we stand for as Catholics. 
The Church has declared that it accr.pts orientation as God­given but it cannot conclone homosnxual acts. Our commu­nity doesn't distinguish between identity and action; it shuts out the nntire gay person. C.ays here at Notre Dame aren't asking us to say that. homosexual acts arc OK or I.hat gay marriages should take place in the Basilica. They want to be protected from hate; they want to have a club and put out ads so that they cun assemble and support r.ach other. 
It's hard to believe that the only reason why this is even an issue is because we call our­selves Christian. Is protecting our reputation as a straight­laced Catholic institution worth hurting so many prnipln? l bnlieve that every singln homo­sexual person on this campus has been hurt and made to fool lik11 he or she is less than thn rest of us simply bficausc of sexual orientation. We have p11rs1•cutcd our gay brothnrs 
and sisters lwcausc ol' sonw­
thing beyond tlwir contrul and 
we have attr.mptnd to make 
tlwrn all ashanw<I of thnm­
selvns for !wing who they arn. 
Believe it or not. gay stud,•nts did not come lwrn to nmhar­rass us all with their "littlt) problem." l'ainf'ul as it may lw, gay studonts anm't all thul dif­ferent from us lrnlnroscxuals. It is no secrot that showing sup-. port or sticking up for our gay community is distasteful on this campus. The administration could pass or not pass a thou­sand diffcm'nt bills 011 tlw gay isslw, but it won't change what's in our hearts and minds. 
Every one of us was born with a gender, ratfl and oriP11­tation. Evnry onn of us mrnds love, respect mu! dignity. This issue transcPnds religion. We\ are all pnople and d<iserve to be trnatcd with decency. In ordnr to lovn and support our gay community. we do not havn to condonn homosexuality or change our views about thn Church. 
Frankly, it':-. our duty, not just as Christians, but as poople to stand up l'or thosn who are being persccutml. If' wn do nut. then we arn cowards and hyp­ocrites. Maylrn we arc shaming Notre Damn morn than ttw hornosoxual community nvnr could because we are profoss­ing to be sonrnthing we arn not. 
I know that as an individual hnrn at Notrn Danrn I have hurl every member of' the gay com­munity by my own indilfornnce and ignorance. I am to blanw for their pain and exclusion because I havn not priwentod it. This fetter may not change anything hem but after all. il really is just a S<'lf'ish g«!stun• on my part. It's lal1\ and I may not be able to slnnp tonight hut I nomled to rnlinvr> my guilty conscience. 
Lauren Wilson Sophotn<>rc !'arlcy I!all ~cptcmlll·r I, I')?<J 
..... 


page 12 OBSERVER Thursday, September 2, 1999 
Women find strong roles in fall films 
Associated Pres, LOS AN(;J-<:LES Susa11 Suraudou is u 11uky mom on the road. while Jodie hislPI' gNs lo know the king. Fmily Watson pirrns in povf\rty, while Melanie Grif'IHh goes loopy in the Deep South. 
/\ suicidal Winona l{ycl,\r gr.ts shipped to the ·asy­lum. whilP Angelina Jolie plays detnctivn dop~rnl­gangor for a paralywd male cop. 
Tlw fall f'ilm sPason is ut hand, and il promisPs an interesting rrnp of' strong, eccentric l'emalo role:s that range far beyond llw llollywood standard of wonwn as "tlw girlfriend" or looking to land a man. But it's not necessarily a "to-die-f'or" season for womPn on scrnon. 
Ratlwr, it's a continuation of' a gradual move toward more films that preseut wonien as ma!. full­blown people. as npposed to eyr candy for male leads. 
"Things have changed for the posilivo." said Diane Keaton. who directs and en-stars with Meg Hyan. Walter Matthau and Lisa Kudrow in "Hanging Cp." .. [\·lorn wom1•n arc out tlwro in every aspcct of film­making. and lwcausr> of" that thPrP's more opportuni­ties for fp111ale roles to bc lllOI"!) complicawd and more• indPp<•ndcntly reprnscnt,\d. meaning not altachnd to a male." 
Others arP skPplical. Films featuring exceptional wonwn 's rolPs remain a much tougher pitch. said• AudrPv W1•lls. who wrote tlw fmnale buddv movie "Tlw ·i'ruth About Cats and Dugs," starring ."lannane Carofalo and Uma Thurman. Wells makes her direct­ing chd)Ut this fall with "(;uinevPre," starring Sarah Policy as a young woman involved with an older man, played by StPphen Hea. 
"I think it's definitely b,wn proven that movies from a fomalr\ perspective can be successful and ultimately very prol1tabl1~." Wells said. 
"It usrd to bc if there were 10 pieces of' the pie. men got all 10," Wells said. "l\ow, women get maybe two pieces of the pin. but they have to compete with each other over those two pieces. I think that pie allotment is a tixed thing.·· 
The slate of roughly 150 films due out beforn year's end remains dominated by niale leads. And men star in most of the likely blockbuster candidates. 
Among this seas.on's higher-profile movies: Pierce Brosnan back as James Bond in "The World ls Not Enough"; Arnold Schwarzenegger battling Satan in "End of Days"; Tom Hanks and Tim Allen lending their voices again to "Toy Story 2"; Robin Williams as "Jakob the Liar," bringing cheer to a Jewish ghetto with faked reports of Allied advances against the Nazis; Kevin Costner returning to the ballpark in "For Love of the Game"; Brad Pitt and Edward Norton trading blows in "The r,'ight Club"; Jim Carrey in "Man on the Moon," the lifo story of the late, bizarre comic Andy Kaufman; and Johnny Depp as 

Ichabod Crane in "Sleepy Ilollow." 
But the major studio lineups promise a number of captivating rolp,s for women. Among them: 
. 
"Girl. Interrupted," starring RydPr as a ·suieirl11l young woman sent to a mental institu­tion. 

. 
"Tlw Rone CollPctor." with Jolie as the invnstigativc eyns and nars for lrndridden cop Denzel Washington. 

. 
"Anna and the King," with Fost<:r as tlrn "King and I" gov­erness hired by the ruler of' Siam to teach his 58 children. 

. 
"Crazy in Alabama," where Griffith escapes an abusive hus­band and flees the South for 1-lollywoorl in the 1C)60s. 

. 
"Anywhere But Hurn," star­ring Sarandon as un over-l·hP­top mother who moves to Beverly Hills intent on foisting her vision ol' a lwwir lifo on h!'r teen-age daughter, played by Natalin Portman. 

. 
"AngPla's Aslws." the adap­tation oi' Frank "'1cCourt's Pulitrnr PrizP-winning memoir. starring Watson as the good­heartnd but emotiiinally plltri­fied motlwr of a brood of impov­erislwd Irish childrnn. 


"She wasn't a particularly heroic p!~rson, but she had a very strong humanity," Watson said. "It's quite different from the other roles I've had where the women had fiery or vnry expressed emo­tions." 
The English actress, who electrified audiences as cellist Jacqueline du Pre in last year's "Hilary and Jackie," said she had been working in films almost nonstop for four years "playing these fantastically interesting female roles." 
"Whether that's luck, I don't know. I feel incredibly lucky to be making films, period. I haven't quite got­ten over that yet." 
Sarandon is no stranger to such roles. In "Thelma and Louise," she was half or the female road buddy team that went on a violent spree. In "Bull Durham," she played a "woman who had sexual appetites and wasn't punished for them," she said. 
"It's certainly healthy if there am more complicat­ed. interesting and lcss-cliched parts out there for women," Sarandon said. 
The nonclichc category this fall includes Meryl 
Streep teaching violin to East Harlem youths in "Music of the Heart"; Milla Jovovich as Joan of Arc in 
director Luc 13esson's "The Messenger"; Ashley Judd play­ing a woman wrongly impris­oned for her husband's murder in "Double Jeopardy"; Patricia Arquette in the supernatural thriller "Stigmata," about a hairdresser who manifests the wounds of Christ; Laura Dern as a wnman who helps defend an uncle accused of attompted murder in "Daddy and Them"; Elisabr.Lh Shue as a simple­miudcd waif who saves lobsters from restaurants in "Molly." 
AnjPlica lluston directs aud stars in "/\gnr.s Browne," the story of an Irish widow raising sevPn chilJrnn; Claire Danes lcnrls voice to the Japanese ani­mated hit "Princess Mononoke," about a girl raisnd by a wolf god who fights human Pncroach­mc11t in the forest; Kate Winslcl appears in director Jane Campion's "lloly Smoke," play­ing a llindu-smilteu Australian who turns tlw tables on cult deprogrnmmcr Harvey Keitel; Annette Bening is a chea1 ing wil'e in "Amnrican Beauty," a caustic look at family values in suburbia. 
Photo courtesy ol Universal Pictures Opportunilics arc there lo 
Kevin Costner stars in his third baseball film, "For the Love of the make compelling movies about 
Game," as a player in the twilight of his career. women, said Patricia Hozema, 

who cl irec ts the Ia tnst .l a111! Austen adaptation, "Mansfield Park." But those films am far less likely to win the marketing attention that male-oriented movies do, she\ said. 
"I don't know that my work justili!\S $30 million in promotion," Rozema said. "But I've always bnen abl,\ to make my movies. \Nomen can get films madn, there's no question." 
In "Mansfield Park," Hozerna said slw imbued tlw mousy main character. a poor cousin play,!d by Frances O'Connor sent to livo among ric:h relations. with some forceful traits ol' Austnn lrnrsetr, making her a bold, freethinking, slyly humorous writnr. 
"What's needed is not just rol,is for strong women, but ones where women are allowed to be railurns and fragile and twisted and complex." Hozema said. "And not some guy doing twisted chicks in a movie out of hate for women. but out of fascination and respPcL" 
Sarandon said the motlrnr in ··Anvwhnrn But llnrn" is far removed from thP sternoti·pnd panint trap llollywood ortim falls into. \\'earing tight pants and heavy eyeliner, her charactPr is impracti(:al, unn•al­islic and outright embarrassing to lwr daughtm. 
"It's time to comn up with a lot of difforrrnt typns of' mothers involving people ottwr than t1•nn-ag,\rs," Sarandon said. "The public is willing to buy tlwm." 
Ditto for daughtnrs, said Kudrow, co-star to Hyan and Keaton in "Hanging Up." Ku cl row plays a neglected youngest sistnr clamoring f'or attention. 
While she's landrid sumo juicy rolns such as tlw lonnly sister in "Tho Opposite of SPx" and the bride in "Analyze This," Kudrow said slrn's not sure tlwrl' has bet!ll much across-tlrn-board improvement in how women are pr<!snntnd in movins. 
"l still mad a lot of scripts wlwrP the part is tlw girl part, and hnr roln in the movin is rmllly just a nd'lnc­tion of the man slw's with." KuJrow said. "Actresses an• looking !'or thosn strong parts whnrc it ·s not about h,it just trying to get a man." 
In the lwyday of tlw studio system. wonwn of't1rn wP-rn prnsPntPd as well-rounrl<Hl charact<~rs. 
Kudrow said, Som,iwhorn along thr) way. though. llollywoud bucam11 "too afraid lo writ,, womnn as complntP pm1pln," K11drow said. "l)on'I givt! tlwrn any quirky traits b,!causc you might bt• accus,,d of hating WOlllHll. 
Dirnrtor Syrhrny Pollack said that trend has IH·Pn reversing gradually as wonrnn takn more> active' ntm­making rdles. 
"It's built up over a n11111br!r of cJp1·ad,•s,'' said Pollack. who dirncts Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas as worlds-apart charactPrs thrown tog1•tlwr when their spouses di(! in a piano crash in "Handom I!~arts." 
"Like anything else, it rnachcs a point whcr!' progress becomns logarithmic," Pollack said. "It's been coming sinc1\ the '6Os, rnally, hut wn'rn finally seeing some real fruit from tho women's 1110V1HnP11t in movies." 


c~ne E 
O
fHE Thursday, September 2, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
--~_-::_-_-:_::-_-_-_::-_-_-_-_:_-_-:_::-_-______________________________ 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Unlucky 13 sours warrior film 
great c!angnr. But Uw catch is that tho 
By VAN CILE.S 
t :Hh mau must not b1• a Norsnmnn. \rm,· /\1.,vi.-( '.iitir 
Fntm· Llw Arab who is uncduc.. tod in 
the ways ol' tlw land and thn monstnrs 
llollvwrnid and IIH' i\nwrican moviP-who inhabit it. 11wki,;g li11si11t•ss is cPrtanly burli11g ror l'rofossi11g lhal lw is 110l a warrior id1•11s with its rPmHkt>s of Slll'h rlassic IJII l ratlwr a11 1•cl lH'.a ti•d po!!l. Ibn l'al Is 
f'il111s ns •· I'll vsrn," '"Tlw (;,,1awav" and in with th1\ gruff warriors with "Sa hri11a." ·1 ·1wugh t.llPSI' 111ms pi·odllct\ stra11gn garb and cwnn strangnr eating big hox 01Ti1·1• lnwks. IIH'Y an) lkdgling and drinking hahits. Along tlrn way. allt•mph 11l r1inPal­I lrn p id s II p th P ir i11g 1'i11P111-atir 111as11•r­languagn and
"The 13th

piP1·1•s . bncomns arcostomPd . Jolin McTi1·r11.i11. to llwir "liv1~ fost and
Warrior"

dirc-rlor of "lli1• I lard di,i with glory" aW­with a \'1•11gPalll'P," ttl(fn. "llw Thomas Crown 
At this point aucfi­·\t'l'a ir" II nd most ()IH'.ns are in high J"('('t'lltly "Thi· I :!th lwpes of' a big scary
ri11/ of fil'e shwnmchs 

\\11rriur." obvio11slv m onst.1• r that. wi 11 rl'ali11•d that a viking turn anybody and "Pi< has ·,wl 1•01111 • oul Director: John McTiernan 
nv1)rybody who for Slllllt' ti JIii' Starring: Antonio Banderas. attacks it into soup. hppi•ia lly wil 11 1hf' Diane Venora and Omar Sharif But Urn truth is that" 
Slll"t'f'SS o!' tlrn gr Pa l e v i I is " II r a v t' It ,, a r l . " nwrnly a 1wighboring 
,\1t'Tin111111 figurt·d it was his duty to trilw of cannibals, numlwring in tlrn 1ill' movi1•-goi11g public to r1•ssurpe•t big hundn·ds, who ridP whitP lwrsns and -.hips with ,,·0111it>11 shil'lds hanging o!T WtHtr !war suits r.omplnlP with !wads, !lw sidPs, along with burly vikings \-\it.Ii fangs and claws. 
l1111g swords. hair.v rar1•sand pig-tail1·cl J\l'l1!1· )wing 1·ount!Pssl_v al.lai:knd by ri•d hair. \\'hat ,wri• OIH'<' adv<'ulurous this hug!' and finrcPsomn forr,· of' !all's nJ' love• a11d lwroil-liallif' lwvP <·.avr'nrnn clrnssncl up in spooky llnar ttll'llt•ci into dl!'ap. draw11-011L sLoriPs outl'its f'it for llallowe1rn, lbn ancl his 
Photo courtesy of Buena Vista 

!hat 1·a11 usually lw sumnu•d up l'rom Viking cr.-w dncide lo t1tk11 llrn offnn­
Antonio Banderas stars as Ahmad lbn Fahdlan in "The 13th Warrior," the new
!he• 111ovil' trail1•r. siv1) and go artnr this insurmountahln 
film based on Michael Crichton's "Eaters of the Dead."
"Till' I ]lh \-\arrior" stars Antonio army to lw1wl'ully get Urn upper hand. Ha. 11 d a n1 s ("TI," Mask of Zorro," fl is .1 bn ·s logic in liguring out whnrn ''!-:vita" and "i)pspe•rado"') as Ahmad tlwy livti that leads thn n!maining war­Actress Diane Venora, who wowed Latin actors around llw world. would llrn l·ahdlau. an /\rub banishPd f"rom riors to the mother ol' the opposing with her ability in "Heat" and "Romeo portray this particular part with his his l!flnwlaml who makPs his way to a clan. and Juliet" is given a small part with thick accent. Norse• ramp. TIH•n•. lw is vit>'.;\'t>d as an Tlw nnding rnveals ilsell' to be exact-not much room to explode as she usu­"The 13th Warrior" is based on the outsidPr, suhj1•1·1PCI to _jok1\S and har-1y what is expnctnd. The film is a ally docs, Michael Crichton novel "Eatnrs of' the l"HSSlllt'llt, dnr1int action-adventure f'lick l'illed The film is very unbielvable even Dead." The setting is grnat, but that's 
llut wh1•11 a11 u11111u111•d 111t•nan• dis­with disguised monsters that turn though Ahmad lbn Fahdlan is based on aboul it. Some pily must go out to rt1p!s a pP,wl'ul lilliP town on tlw coast ollwr bravP nH\11 into raw hamburger a real historical figure who wrote those people who chooso to pay full 

li111•. till• srnry wilrh/psyl'hi1· nxplains nwal dosNI in /\-1 
lhal lhirle•1•11 warriors must go lo rt•s­not. 
nu• t.lw pPoph• and rid tlw land of this 

"The Sixth Sense" continued its box office dominance, coming in at the top spot of the weekend box office for the fourth straight week. 
Photo courtesy of Buena Vls1a 
T«Ji~\~ 
I 
Movie Title Gross Sales 
1
. The Sixth Sense $ 20.0 million 

2. 
The 13th Warrior $ 10.2 million 

3. 
Runaway Bride $ 6.8 million 

4. 
Bowfinger $ 6. 5 million 

5. 
Mickey Blue Eyes $ 5.4 million 

6. 
The Thomas Crown $ 4.6 million Affair 

7. 
In Too Deep $ 4.2 million 

8. 
The Blair Witch $ 4.2 million Project 

9. 
The Austronaut's Wife $ 4.0 million 

10. 
The Muse $ 3.9 million 


Source: Associated Press 
sauc11. /\n epic it is detailed diaries of his run-ins with the price for this mindless lripe. It goes to Vikings and their villages. It seems odd show lhat every lype of film does nol that Banderas, one-of the most popular need to be recreated every few years. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
closet and most frightening of all, a killer clown. 

By MIKE VANEGAS 
Indeed, tlie creepiest momenl in the film was 

Scene Editor 
wheh the loy clown finally turned evil and attackt)d poor Hobbie. Nol created with a plnasant face lo 

Scary films, from "The Blair Witch Project" to begin with, tho clown was fornshadowml as an aclor "Tim Sixth Sens<)." havn dominat11d theaters the past of' evil narly in the picture. ll was mcrnly wlwn and month or so. But th(m\ is one lilm, hailing way back how the clown would altack thal made him an nffoc­from I982, that can still make moviegor,rs trnmble tive link to the success or the film's horrors. in tlwir snats -"l'oltergeisL" Of course, it seems Hobbie is llrn only victim in lhis 
Snl in a quaint suburban homo, taln or a pollnrgnisL That is unlil "l'oltnrgeist" l'ollows a f'amily as Carol Anne is kidnappnd by lhn thnv discov1ff tlwir house is haunt­"Poltergeist" devious ghosts. Throwing lwr 
nct ." and subsequently battle the ramily into a chaotic stir that is ghostly forces to stay alive. With only intnrruptnd by ils discovery
Director: Tobe Hooper
Stevnn Spinlborg as writer, pro­that tlw allernatc univnrse Carol ducer and. for all intents and pur-Starring: Craig T. Nelson, Anne was taknn to is locatnd in 
pos(is, dirnctor (Toho Iloopnr is JoBelh Williams, Heather O'Rourke, the tnlnvision set. nndit1\cl, Intl Spinlbtirg usml his Calling upon Lim samP parnpsy­pnwPr to rnntrol the project). tiH' Oliver Robins and Zelda Rubinstein 
chologists/supnrnatural doctors lilm pullml viewers in ,L"i it crealnd thal had visitnd prnviously, tlw tho hauntnd housn as morn of a l'un house. family attPmpts to rntrinv,1 Carol /\mw from tP!nvi­Taking advantagn of" a loopy housewifo (JoBeth sionland. 
Williams) and an i11110cl111t liltln girl named Carol Wilh tho addition of tlw lwavy-windPd and confus­Amw (I IMther O'Hourknl, the haunting spirits rorc1i ingly spooky Tangina (Znlda HubinstPin). tlw quPst lhc Frtwling l'amily lo accept lhnir existenrn and t.o sav<i Carol An1w bncomPs a battln or trust 
sonk help from paranormal/supnrnatural experls. betWflen tho sc.ientilically-mincll'd dol'tors and tlw \Vhat follow an• somn of llw f'n•akiest. scrmes in any intuition of Tangina. horror film. · Eventually, Carol An,w is sawd by lwr nwtlwr via Things st.art lo g1, awry wlwn a thunderstorm hits the pumpkin portal. both of them falling into a bath­
..

tlw housn. With a toothless Hobbi(' (Olivnr Robins) as tub as ii' tlrny canw immndiat,dy out of' thP birth lhn Vt\llowest chil'k<'1t in history, tho thunderstorm canal. tak,;s ovt\r his mind, 1111tnrs it' and dnstroys. Soon Unfifftunatl'ly for llw FrPnlings. saving Carol Amin 1•nough. thn hug1i trnc growing outside Robbie's bed­angers thn poltPrgdsl further, lnading to an exciting room window hrnaks through thn window, beconrns chasn out or thn neighborhood. as !Im FrP1)ling lrnus<) a man-trPP :uHI starts ea1ing up rfoar litt.le Hobbie. is swallowed up inlo oblivion. 
O!hcr ma,jor frights include a .swimming pool "l'ohPrgnist," as a horror flick. passes through its 
wrought with de-cnflinatnd corpses come-to-life. a scenns with rnmarkahhi excitPmtmt and int1mse Hur­tornado cnntrn!iznd in Carol Anne's and llobbic's ry. Nlwer finding itsoll' in an unsatisfying position, bedroom, an orange, pumpkin-like portal tu an the film will indnnd continun as one of tho best hor­altnrnatn universn <!manating from Carol Anne's ror flicks rrom the 1980s. 
Thursday, September 2, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NBA 
.Heart problems worry Bird 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The Indiana Pacers were aware that Larry Bird had an irregular heartbeat when they hired him as coach, and realize he might leave after next season. 
"It's the end of his contract," Pacers president Donnie Walsh said today. "He hasn't come in and definitnly told me that, but I've always known it was a three-year deal and at the end of it he was going to make up his mind whether he wanted to coach or not." 
Bird was not available for comment today, and it was not clear if the possibility of his leav­ing coaching was tied to his heart condition. ' 
The Boston Globe today reported that Bird said he had discussed quitting 
front office, Bird felt the "episodes" more often. He finally told team physician Arnie Scheller and was diagnosed with atrial 
Bird was put on medication and told to exer­cise, eat healthy and drink alcohol only in mod­eration. But his condition worsened in the spring of 1997, right before ht> became the Pacers' coach. . 
"I got a little scared because it didn't seem like it was going away," Bird wrote. \,\'alsh said today he was aware of Bird's heart ailment. 
"When Larry and I were talking about the job originally, he told me he was seeing a doctor and he had an irregular heartbeat or some­thing like that and that he had to watch his diet, what he drank, what he ate, and that he 
would havt> to take me.dicine. 
with Walsh, but Walsh told The "/ always knew there "In effect, it was a matter of Associated Press he never talked finding the Jewel of the medicine
was something wrong 
to Bird specifically about that. in order to have his heart beat "However, in dealing with wit,h my heart." regularly. Once they found that, Larry for the last two years, from it seemed to me it was OK and the very beginning, he only com­he didn't have any more prob­
Larry Bird 
mitted to coach for three years," lems."
Pacers' Head Coach
Walsh said. 
When Bird joined the Pacers in 1997, he said he didn't expect to coach long. Walsh said it's possi­ble Bird could move into the front office as gen­eral manager or even team president Walsh's job. • · "We'll continue to talk about that," Walsh said. "But we reallv haven't sat down and had a definite discussion ·about this." 
Bird's heart ailment was disclosed in an excerpt in this week's Sports Illustratcd from his upcoming book, "Bird Watching: On Playing and Coaching the Game I Love." 
He savs he did not tell the Boston Celtics and team doctors that he felt irregular heartbeats during offseason workouts late in his NBA career. 
"I always kirnw there was something wrong with my heart," Bird wrote. 
The heart "episodes," as he called them, apparently didn't occur during the regular sea­son. 
He said he would feel sudden exhaustion and his heart would start "jumping around." After retiring in 1992 and joining the. Celtics' 
The disease is not life threat­
ening and not as serious as ven­
tricular fibrillation, which doc­
tors believed caused th.e death of former Celtics teammate Reggie Lewis. But on March 17, 1998, while rnaching Indiana in a tight game against the Chicago Bulls, Bird almost passed out. 
"I was standing on the sideline and hoping for a television timeout because I felt like I was­gonna to pass out," Bird wrote. "Finally, the ref whistled time. Whenever we have a tim(-iout, they always put a chair on the court for me so I can sit down and talk to the guys. 
This time I fell into that chair because I was going out." 
At one point earlier, Pacers cardiologist King Yee used defibrillator paddles to jolt Bird's heart back to a normal rhythm. Yee told Bird to be more serious about hi~ condition and med­ication. 
"l guess Dr. Yee was trying to scare me," Hird wrote. 'Tm not going to be stupid about this heart condition, but I'm not going to live my whole life in foar of this thing, either. If it goes, it goes." 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Ripken returns to O's after stint on DL 
ing f'or it." Associated Press 
Getting his 3,000th hit this BALTIMOHE season will be difficult. given Cal Hipken was activatod that he has to average morn from the disabled· list than one hit per game. Hiµken Wednesday, eager to resume said there would be no special his quest to reach 400 homers feeling in joining Tony Gwynn and 3,000 career hits. andWadr, Boggs in rnaching 
llipken was at third base and thr, milestone this vear. hatting seventh for the "If 3,000 hits ha.ppen, ii hap­Baltimore Orioles against the pens. But it hasn't been a goal Tampa Bay Devil Rays. It was to do it in a certain period of his first game since July 31. tinrn and it hasn't been a goal 
fie had been sidelined with to do it in a certain year," lw nerve irrita­said. "You just tion in his "The true satisfaction out play, and 
lower back. things happen
ofthe game ofbaseball is
Ripken had when thny :{99 career to win." happen." homers and Hipk(\n, who 2,968 hits turned :19 last
Cal Ripken
when placed wonk, play,id
Orioles third baseman
on the dis­abled list in August. 
HP-has 31 gaines left to reach both mile­stones, although Orioles man­ager Ray Miller said hewould probably rest Hipken on occa­sion down the stretch. 
Ripken hit his 399th homer on July 25. Three games later. in the final home game before a lengthy road trip, Im hit a liner off the top of tho wall in left field that went for a <lriuble. 
"I tried to hit a home run because I thought it would be great to do it here at homo," he said. 
"I was able to concentrate 
·and put a good swing on the ball. But it seemed to takr, me out of my game a liUle bit,. try­ing to swing hard and hit a home run every time. You can't hit a homo run by swing-
in a record 
2,(>32 straight 
garnns before 
voluntarily ending the strnak last September. l Ie wnnt on the dis­abled list for tlrn first Limn in his career /\pril 20 bccausn of a bad back, missing thrnn wr\cks, a11d returned to DL shi>rtly af'tcr cxpr)riPrn:ing back pain /\ug. 1. 
In b11twnnn hn hit in 49 of 61 gamns, batting .'.):i2 with I:i homers and 43 HBls. 
Because tlw Orioh\s long ago clroppnd out of contPntion. Hipkcn doesn't have much to play for Pxcnpt personal goals. 
"The true satisfaction out of the gamfl of basdmll is to win," he said. ''It's a whol<' lot rnorP fun playing on a win1wr and having a chancn to go to th1) playoffs. It's be1\n a frustrating snason in that rngard . ., 
The Observer accepts classifieds every bu.1iness day from 8 a.m. to 3 \>.m. a1 the t'sotre DJnie office. 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nat-day classifieds is 3 p.111. Al cl,1ssif1c<l.1 n111.1t he prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, _including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
oil classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Foosball players wanted.  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Spring Break Specie.ls!Bahamas  ND football !ix for sale  PURDUE TIX  
High level players desired.  HOME FOR  Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  AM -232-2378  TICKETMART  
NOTICES  Call D. 257-4441 evenings.  ND-SMC EVENTS VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Meals! Awesome  PM · 288-2726  271-9330  
STUDENT OPENINGS  243-0658.  Beaches.Nighllife!Cancun &  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  NEED MICHIGAN TIXIJ  
Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls  5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  GAMES.2726551  Please call Tim, 634-0959  
Research:h1tp://www.geocities:com:  classes.  Florida  
80/Athens/Rhodes/7031 /deadsea. h  Scholarships avail.  B&B  $129!springbreaklravel.com  BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT­ Any extra Mid1igan tix? Please call  
!ml  www worktorstudenls.com/1 N  ND FOOTBALL & GRAD.  1-800-678-6386  BALi_ TICKETS.  Colleen­4-2244  
282-2357  3 MILES TO N.O.  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8046  
Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual  287-4545  NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!!  
students of ND/SMC meeting each  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  $20 ->669 minutes  I need one ticket for MSU.  I need 3 Arizona t1x­Please call  
Thurs. For info call:  The Early Childhood  Call 243-9361, ask for Rob  Name your price and call  ColleeQ 4-2244 if you can help!  
(877)631-6OUT  Development Center, located at  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  Bryan al 1-6900  
Saint Mary's College and the  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  FOR SALE  
LOST & FOUND  University of Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers who enjoy young chil­dren. If you would be interested in  available for football/parent wknds. ,5 Rooms with private baths, $80­$115. Middlebury, 30 miles from  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ ++ N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  I need 3 Arizona lix-Please call  
spending 2 hours a week  campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­ FOR SALE  BUY /SELL/TRADE  Colleen 4-2244 if yOLJ can help!  
Ticket found. Call Kate at  reading children's books,  800-41 8-9487.  N.O. FOOTBALL TIX  ALL GAMES  
3868 with proof if it's yours.  building with blocks.and  CALL 271-9412  ALL LOCATIONS  
singing songs with children,  3-6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­ GREAT PRICES  Will trade 2 Mich SI and 2 Ariz St  
LOST: BAG OF MAKEUP IN  please call Cindy Hestad or Amy  PUS. NOW OR 2000/2001.ROOMS  271-9330  GAs for 4 GAs (grouped together)  
JOYCE CENTER THE WEEK OF  Moskalick at 284-4693 (ECOC­ ALSO 272-6306  For sale Serta sleeper/sofa. Asking  !!NO STUDENT TICKETS'!  for Ariz St,Okla, or USC.Nick 800­ 
8/23. PLEASE CALL LAURIE AT  SMC) or Thayer  $125 289-7017  TICl<ETMART INC.  356-9655 x4B28  
247-0545.  Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC­ SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM.FAM  www.ndtickets.com  
ND) Ple-ase Join our fun filled days  RM.2726306  Dining table w/4 chairs  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
(1 yr.old). $200/obo.  +++  TICKETS!  
WANTED  2 great kids (fem. 9 & 7) are looking for a sitter alter school (3:00 -5;30  NICE HOUSE CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097  1989 Isuzu Trooper LS, 4 WO,  For sale 2 tix to Mich. Sept 4 call w/ offer: 4-3881  
p.m.)  loaded, 105K mi. Excellent.  
FREE FOOD AND FROSTY BEV­ M &/or W.  LOADED  $4250/obo.  ND ALUM WILL PAY $100 APIECE  
ERAGES  Close to ND.Need a car. Call 289­ 6 Bedrm '00-01 yr.  FOR TENNESSEE TIX 2773097  
In return for a place 10 crash for the ND-USC game.  7017.  273-0482 / 234-3831  Complete twin bed. $65.  GA FOOTBALL TICKETS  PERSONAL  
4 '94-95 alums seeking refuge. Call  SOCCERZONE  . Call 277-3254.  ALL HOME GAMES .......  
Bill @ 703-469-1008.  Soccer Instructors Part lime positions of 5-10 hrs/wk.  FOR SALE  BEST PRICES 272-7233 ASK FOR AL  Allie. Mary, Jeanine. Laura. Stella, Cynthia:  
FRATERNITIES.SORORITIES and  teaching soccer classes for 3-8 yr.  MUNCH.  
...  STUDENT GROUPS: Earn $1000· 2000 with easy CIS Fund Raiser  olds. 10am-12pm & 4pm-7pm, Mon. thru Thurs. Must have leaching  Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and  TICKETS  NEED 2 MICHIGAN ST. TIX!!' email: moon.6@nd.edu  Hi Emily Snow!  
event.No sales required.Fund  experience, basic soccer skill  deluxe frame. New, never used, still  
Raiser days are 1111ing up.so call  knowledge. Multiple positions avail­ in plastic. $235.  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ Countdown lo Kate's big 21:  
today.  able immediately. Call Dan Payne,  219-862-2082.  BALL TICKETS  Need 2 GAs to Michigan St.,  Oh, I don't know. What day is it now  
Contact Andrea  SoccerZone  271-1526  Oklahoma, Arizona St., USC, Navy  anyway? Well, she turns on Sunday  
800-829-4777  243-5777.  SILVER TREK RACING BIKE  and BC. Call Bill at 4-4905.  so give here a cheer. Or something  
52cm frame. 12 spd. Excellent con­ SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ that rhymes with that.  
dition. $150/obo.  ETS  FOR SALE  
www.PopWall.com-FUNKIFY YOUR DORM ROOM.Posters.bean  FOR RENT  Rich 289-3921.  277-6619  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412  Muckfish? Again?  
bags.lava lamps & more.  Bikes for sale.Good to excellent  WANTED - It you got the previous classified,  
For on-campus job -call toll free  HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS  condition .All good  ND football tix.  ALUMNI NEED 4 ND-MICH. TIX  you spend too much time decoding  
1.87.POPWALL1  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  mechanically.Ready to ride!  AM -232-2378  PLEASE CALL 271-8222.  license plates.  
232-2595  674-0541  PM -288-2726  $$CASH$$  

u : a ;ease *• . as ,a a & 
·------P > SE & JO . SLZG & -·-w 
----.a 
Tl1ursday, Scpcember 2, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
us OPEN 
Ivanisevic advances with 21 aces 
Associated Press 
Wdr1rnrn lo llrn curious world of' Coran lvanisnvic. home of strangn porsonalitir.s convnrsing hnlwmrn points ­lhn good Coran and tlrn bad Goran aml Lim weird Goran trying to figun\ out how lo play. 
Thn various voices got togc>llwr long l'llough in tlrn 
U.S. Opnn on Wed1wsday !'or lvaniscvic Lo win a match witll 27 ac!'S and insNI. himsPir into tlw fh!11-f'or-all of' a tournauwnl vac:atnd by l'etn Sampras and Patrick llartt•r. 
''!l's just mo, mn and me," lv1111is,wir said of' lhos,i voices tugging at him in a 7-5, 7-6 17­:,), 4-(>, <i-2 victory ovnr Finish qualif'irir Villn Liukko. "Somctinws it's good. H's fun for tlw rrnwd. Sonrntinrns not fun for mn. I !{t)l confused, y'know." 
!IP gcl.s pnrli1:11larly ronrus1\d whP!l ho has to d!1cick wlwtlrnr 
l.o go Uw 1ml, and for tlw 111ost parl lw slays back behind tlw hasdinn b1•c;wse his legs don't lisl!rn to his trnad. 
"You lmv1i lo <·.ontrol tho legs, vou know," lw said. "You can­;wl go in without lngs. It's likn fivr. IO lll<'lt•rs. It's not rasy. I w1111t lo go in. hut thrn I don't want to go in. TIH!ll l think, ''\Vh1m I go in. I lose llin point.' I think. "OK. why didn't you slay bad,?' \.Ylw11 I stay b,~ck, it's always, "Why didn't ynu go in'!' It's always. "Why, why. why. why did11'l you choosn that'?' 
"When you buy a red car. you say, "Why didn't I buy a blun ear'!' You come home, your wife says, "Change this.' It's, "Why?' It's always, "Why?"' 
Askrd which onr of' his vari­ous pr.rsonalitics would get the trophy if' he wins. lvanisevic smiled. 
"Oh, wo all gr.l the trophy," ho said. "1 get llm trophy, I.hen I buy another lwo trophios for who!lver is there." 
Not so long ago, lvaniscvic loomed as a strangn and m1:1n­acing predator in ovory tourna­ment, an endearing, outsized creature who entertained crowds and stunned oppon~nts with the fiercest serves. 
Now he has evolved into tho ultimate dangerous f1oater, his ranking down to No. 39. his confidence as t'rngiio as a souf­rlo, but his serve as scary as ovnr. Ile is still a thmat to any­ono, still a threat to himself as hn wandors from court to court in search of tlm edge he some­how lost. 
Maybe, just maybe, this U.S. Open will he lvanisevic's time, the Grand Slam event where ho will put behind him those magnif'icnnt dcf'nats in the Wimbledon finals that have cl1~f'iiwd his carnor: against Agassi in 1992., Sampras in ·1994, and Sampras once morr in 1998. 
To say tlrn draw has op<rnml t1p for lvanisevic would be lib~ saying tlm watnrs partnd a lit­tll' for Charlton lloston. The only seeded players left in his half af'ter the first round are Kuerten (5), Todd Martin (7), Greg Husedski (9), Tommy Haas (14) and Nicolas Lapentti (16). In other words, there's nobody Ivanisevic can·1 beat. 
Then again, the way lvanisevic has played at times this year, there's nobody who can't beat him. Consider this: He has lost within the first two rounds ot' 14 of the 18 tourna­ments he's played. 
"I come here with almost every week losing first round," he said. "I play more golf than tennis the past couple of weeks. 
"It's just tough to explain," he said. "I get so lost on the court. I start to force too much. I don't know what to do. A lot of double-faults." 
lvanisevic looked lost at times against Liukko, a foot shorter, much less talented, lrnt the beneficiary of the Croatian's 15 double-faults. 
"In one stage of the match today, 1went like every second serve more than 105, 110 mph. I couldn't get less than that. 1 don't have control. 
"It's just confidence. The more matches you play, the more confidence you have, and everything is going together." 
Yet he remains undaunted, hopeful that he can find one Grand Slam tille inside himself. 
"When I play tennis on the court. then I can beat anyone," he said. "Now I have to win six more matches. It's long way. It's like Mount Everest." 
Early exits·leaves a weaker men's field 
Associated Press 
Three days into the U.S. Open, the top half of the men's draw is drooping, missing two of the tournament favorites and one of its heaviest hittPrs. It is left with No. 5 Gustavo Kuerten as its top remaining seeded playr.r. 
Injuries took top-seeded Pete Sampras and two-time defend­ing champion Patrick Rafter out of the mix early. Before the tournament ever IJegan, thoir half ofthe draw took a hit when 
No. 11 Mark Philippoussis, a big-serving finalist here last year, pulled out because of a knee injury. 
Sampras left beforn playing a match, his run at a record 13th Grand Slam title ended by a herniated disc in his back. Then Hafter went down with an aching shoulder, forced to retire from his first-round match against Cedric Pioline. It marked the first time since this tournament began in 1881 that a defending champion has lost in the first round. 
"It's tough for the tourna­ment," Rafter said. "Especially with Pete playing such great tennis, and my form was pretty good, as well, coming into here. I was feeling pretty confident about having some good wins here. 
"For me, it's very tough to pull yourself off that court" For Pioline, the casualties 
were no problem. "Piolinf! i.s still lrnre," he said. "It's good." 
That left Kuerten, who was hitting with Sampras when the four-time champion was injurnd on Sunday, at the top of that half of the draw and perhaps wondering about it. 
Th<~ Brazilian. winner of' tho 
French Open two years ago, has 
never made it past the second 
round of'the U.S. Open. lie plays 
Paul Haarhuis next. 
Behind Kuerten comes No. 7 Todd Martin, who barely made it through the first round with a five-set victory that included three tiebreakers. 
Next is No. 9 Greg Huscdski, a finalist hem two years ago who held off Juan Carlos Ferrero 4­6, 6-2, 6-3, 6-4. 
No. 14 Tommy Haas advanced with a 6-2, 6-4. 7-6 (8-6) victory over Thomas Enqvist but, in keeping with his half of' the draw, he needed some treat­ment from the trainers for a hip flexor. 
With so many of those around him falling, Haas is determined to hang on. 
"Obviously, it opens up the draw," he said. "Maybe there are chances for the other ones. You know, it's just bad luck. That's just the way it goes. Injuries happen to everyone. IL just makes the players appreci­ate to be healthy and can't wail to come out again to play next­time." 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
-ffi -ffi -ffi -ffi -ffi -ffi 
~ Notre Dame Finance Club ~ 
-ffi -f:fi 
~ Organizational Meeting ~ 
-ffi -f:fi -f:fi -f:fi 
~ When: Thursday, September 2; 7-8 pm ~ 
-ffi -f:fi 
-ffi Where: Room 121 College of Business Administration ffi 
ffi -f:fi -ffi -f:fi -ffi -f:fi f:fl All Years Welcome! ffi 
f:fl -f:fi f:fl -f:fi ~ -f:fi 
~ Who Should Attend? ·~ 
f:fl -f:fi f:fl -f:fi 
~ • Those interested in traveling to Chicago and New York over fall break! ~ ffi -f;fl ffi -f;fl f:fl • Underclassn1en interested in learning about what majoring in Finance is like!! ffi f:fl -f:fi -f:fi -f:fi 
ffi ffi 
~ • Juniors and Seniors who would like the opportunity to develop contacts that can -€fl ~ lead to summer internships and full-time employment!!! ~ 
f:fl -f:fi 
ffi ffi 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

a_ QOC

il WE *' C ,. z 
CC a :. 10 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 2, 1999 
NATIONAL LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Ventura hits No.200 as NY tops Houston 
--
Associated Press HOUSTON Robin Venlura hit his 200th career homer and drove in four runs and Mike Piazza went 4­for-!i as the New York Mets beat the Houston Astros 9-5 Wednesday night. Octavio Dote! (6-1) limited Houston to four runs and five bits in live innings. The rookie right-hander is 6-0 in 11 starts since losing his major league debut. Ventura hit a two-run homer his 29th, after Piazza doubled in the first inning. Ventura, who went 3-for-6, added an RBI single in the fifth and a run-scoring double in the sixth. Piazza, who entered the game hitting .143 (2-for-14} on New York's road trip, had two doubles and two singles and scored twice. The Mets remained 3 1/2 games behind first-place Atlanta in the NL East and moved four games in front of Cincinnati in the wild-card race. Jeff Bagwell hit his 39th homer for Houston, which stayed 1 1/2 games in front of the second-place Reds in the NL Central. The Mets chased Chris Holt (3-13l in the fifth. With the scored tied at 3, John Olerud walked and moved to third on Piazza's double. Ventura sin­gled to score Olerud and Shawon Dunstan's RBI single gave New York a 5-3 lead. Roger Cedeno greeted reliev­er Brian Williams with an RBI single to make it 6-3. Cedeno went 3-for-5 with two RBIs.· Holt allowed six runs and 1O hits in four-plus innings. Olerud, who went 3-for-5 with a walk and three runs scored, doubled leading off the sixth and. after Piazza singled. scored on Ventura's double off the right-field wall for a 7-3 lead. Houston cut the lead to 2-1 in the second when newly acquired Stan Javier scored on Paul Baku's groundout. The Mets made ii 3-1 in the third on Darryl Hamilton's HBI groundout. Dote! held the Astros hitless until Bagwell led off the fourth with a drive into the center­field seats. One out later, Javier drove home Ken Caminiti, who 
l!a~ doubled, with a single to tie It. 
Javier. acquired from San francisco un Tuesday because of a rash of injuries in the out­field, finished l-for-2 with an HBI and a run scored. 
Cardinals 9, Marlins 3 
Mark McGwire jumped back into the home run race and Garrett Stephenson posted another strong outing as the SL Louis Cardinals beat the rtorida Marlins 9-3 Wednesday night. 
McGwire ended a drought of 25 at-bats without a homer when he hit his 52nd of the season in the fifth inning off Hyan Dempster. He passed Lou Gehrig to become the career leader at first base with 494. 
McGwirc moved tu three behind major league leader Sammy Sosa after a 459-foot drive off the scoreboard in left field ror his first homer in eight games. 
The drought was McGwire's longest since a 32 at-bat stretch from June 9-19. He has homered in 10 of 19 career games against Florida. His· longest stretch this season without going deep is 40 at­bats. 
Stephenson (5-0) pitched 6 1­3 innings, allowing one run and seven hits with four strike­outs and two walks. He is 3-0 with a 1.37 ERA since being recalled up from Triple-A Mempon Aug. 6. 
Edgar Renteria and Craig Paquette also homered for the Cardinals, and Renteria extended his hitting streak to 12 games. 
Three of Renteria's seven homers have come against the Marlins, who traded him last winter. 
Ray Lallkford also added four RBIs for the Cardinals. 
Renteria left after twistincr 
his left knee making a spectac~ 
ular fielding play at shortstop 
to end the sixth. · 
Renteria ranged into the out­field to field Hamon Castro's grounder in the hole, then fired a strike to McGwire at first for the out. 
Luis Castillo singled in the 
fifth to extend his hitting streak 
to 21 games, one shy of the 
Marlins record set by Renteria 
in 1996. 

Roos 5'0RTS RECREATION CEN!El! DEl'AATMENf Of ATHlE11CS UNIY€iSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 
In-Line Hockey  Sundays  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-10:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-10:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  
Badminton  Saturdays  9:00-11:00  

Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes are in session. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Texas tops Detroit behind Helling 
Associated Prc•s DETROIT Juan Gonzalez, Luis Alicea and Gregg Zaun homered to help Rick Helling stretch his winning streak to six decisions as the Texas Rangers beat the Detroit Tigers 14-7 Wednesday night.. Oean Palmer, Tonv Clark and Damion Easley ho'mered for Detroit. Helling (12-7) was in trouble early, falling behind 5-1 after three innings. But he allowed just two hits over the next four innings, retiring the Tigers in order in the fifth and sixth. Ove~ his seven-plus innings, Helhng allowed six runs and eight hits with one walk and seven strikeouts. John Wctteland got the last five outs for his 37th save in 44 opportunities. . _Helling, who was relieved by fun Crabtree after Palmer's single leading off the eighth, hasn't lost since June 21 at Boston, going 6-0 with seven no-decisions over his last 1:1 starts. Detroit starter Jeff Weaver (8-10) was tagged for six runs and nine hits with one walk and four strikeouts in six innings. Tom Goodwin's triple broke a tie, driving in Royce Clayton for a 6-5 Texas lead in the sixth. Palmer's 30th homer gave the Tigers a 1-0 lead in the first and Detroit went up 2-0 in the second when Easley, who had singled, scored on Karim Garcia's sacrifice fly. Goodwin, who doubled, scored on Mark McLemore's RBI single to make it 2-1. A two-run homer by Clark, followed by Easley's solo shot gave Detroit a 5-1 lead in their half of the third, but the 
Rangers drew within one again with a three-run fourth. 
Rafael Palmeiro had an RBI double while Zaun and ~oodwin each had RBI singles m thA HangArs' outburst. Gonzalez tied it at 5 in the fifth with his 31st homer, a solo shot off the facing of the second deck in left. 
AlicAa hit a solo homer off Doug Brocail and McLemore had an HBl single to make it 8­5 in the Aighth. 
The Rangers touched reliever Maseo Kida for six runs in the ninth. three on Zaun's first home run of the year. 
Athletics 7, Yankees 1 
Ben Grieve drove in four runs and Omar Olivares pitched a six-hitter as the Oakland Athletics beat Roger Clemens and the New York Yankees 7-1 Wednesday night. 
Clemens (12-7) lost to Oakland for the second time this month, making the A's the only AL team he has a losing record against. Clemens is 13­14 in his career against Oakland. . 
Olivares (13-9) walked two and struck out six in his fourth complete game ol' the year. lie improved to 5-0 since being traded from Anaheim to Oakland and beat the Yankees for the third time this year. 
The A's scored all seven runs with two outs and remained two games behind Boston in the AL wild-card race. The Reel Sox beat Kansas City 4-3. 
Once again, Clemens failed to put together consecutive strong outings. The Yankees thought putting Joe Girardi behind the plate might help snap Clemens out of his season-long funk. It worked last Friday when Clemens pitched eight shutout innings against Seattle and it worked f'or three innings Wednesday. 
Clemens-struck out four in the first three innings before running into trouble in the fourth when he issued a lcadoff walk to Rich Beckor. One out l~ter, .Jason Giambi blooped a ~mgle t.o center that fell just in lront ol Bcrnin Williams. 
Olmedo Saenz then walked, loading the basns, and with two '.rnt_s GrievA grounded a ball just 111s1dc the third-base line for a two-run doubh~. 
The A's added two more in the sixth. Giambi bloopnd another single to cnntcr and Saenz walked. Thny advancnd on a groundout and scored on Gricve·s single to conter to make it 4-0. Grieve finished 3­for-4. 
Handy Velardo added an BBi double in the seventh off Clemens, who allowed six hits and fivp, runs in snvon innings. 
After going 0-for-<J with run­nP-rs in scoring position in a :1-2 loss Tuesday night, thr. Yankees wen1 hitless in eight chances Wednesday. Thr,y couldn't r,ven scorn when Chili Davis hit his first triple since May 11, 1994, with one out in the sc~cond. , 
Davis hit a high fly to tho wall in right linld that Matt Stairs missed as he craslrnd into tlrn f'~m~:e. The ball rollnd away and Stairs had trouble finding it as Davis lumb11rnd into third. Davis bad gone 2,216 at-bats without a triple. which was thn longest active strnak. 
Olivares then struck out Hickv Le?eP; ~n thrne pitches and g<;t Lms SoJo to ground out. 
The Yankees only run camn on Chuck Knoblauch's 15th homer with one out in the sixth inning -snapping a 13-inning scornless streak. 


Notre Dame vs. Purdue Saturday, September 11 


Buses leave at 9:30 a.m. from the Stepan Center Game Time: 2:30 p.m. Tickets: $20.00 at the Lafortune Information Desk 

Bus tickets will go on sale starting at 10:00 a.m. on September 2. For more information, contact Student Activities at 631-7309 
A lottery for ND <:tudents interested in purchasing football tickets for the Purdue game will he held bv Sl 8 on St.:pternber I. l 999. Please call 63 I-7757 for more details. 
Thursday, September 2, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NBA 
Lofton's return sparks Cleveland 
A.soci..u:d Pres. 
CUiVEIAND 

Kenny Lollo11 returned lo the Indians' lineup WPdnnsday night and made an immediate impact, sparking a six-run third inning that. lif'tod Cl,widand to a 8-1 victory ovnr /\1mhcim. 
Pitching bpfon• a rncord rc•gular season r.rowd at Jacobs FinId of 43,399, Dave Burba (12 7) gavu up oight hits but just 0110 run over eighl innings. Burba, who struck out sPv1m, including UH! sidP in tlw cighLh. has suddenly bncome ( fovclanct's hotll•st pitdrnr, winning his last four starts. 
Tlw /\ngols have lost night straight gamns and 10 or 11. Starter .Jarrnd Washburn ({)-JI couldn't gd an out in the lhird and was charged with all six runs in Uw inning. 
l.ol"lon, l'Ollling back l'rom IL right hamstring injury that kopl him out ol' all but onn game in August. linislwd 2-for.:1 with a walk. I lis double to tlw wall in c,•ntPr drovn home Finar Diaz to starl tlw scoring. 
Omar Vizqunl follnwnd with a single to right­('.f'lllPr and l.of'ton scornd wlrnn Hoberto /\lomar hit anotlwr singlH to tlrn samo spol. 
Vizqud scon'd otl a douhlf\ stnal wlwn catcher Malt Walh<\rk's throw to third skippnd into loll 1i1ilcl. Ma1111y Hamirnz tlwn got his I:lfith HBI of llm yPar with a triplP to right. Angnls tH1Llinlcl!1r Tim Sal1111111 lwlp,~d out Hamirnz when lw slipped on tlw warning track. 
But tlH' innini(s most bizarre monrnnt cam<' 1rnxt whnn .Jirn Tlw11w hit a towering fly to cnn• t,ir. 
C,•nt1•r tiPldPr (;arrnt i\ndPrs1111 caH11d l'or the ball hut thPn brok1' toward right lidd, looking skyward Salmon ml bPhind him and picked up th;• hall as Hamin•z joggPd honw. Thonrn was 1-r,,ditl'd with a doubl<•. 
Tho111P and l!irhiP SPxson add,HI consiicutiv<i ~11!11 l10m1•rs i11 llw lil'!l1. Snxs1m brnk<· his bat but st.ill hil llw ball :irJ!i fo11t. 
.-\nalu•im 's nm canw in l111• sixth wlwn Salmon doublPd and latPr sc-orPd on Troy (;!aus· grou11d­ot1I. 
Cl,•vl'land snt its old all<'lHlann• rncord al .larnhs !-'il'lcl 011 ;vlav 2Ii, !lJ1J8, wlw11 4:1,:342 rans wa11'lwd I.ht' Indian~ play llt>lrnit. 
Mariners 3, White Sox 2 
hlgar \1arli1w~ and .la~ ll11l11wr hit consnrntivc h11111P rum, i11 t.lH' s1•\'t>nlh inning WPd11t,sday night tu ll'iHI tlu• SPalllP Mari1wrs tu a ;{-2 vktory ovPr l:hil',q.\o and a l'iiur-ganw swP1•p ol' IIH· 
While Sox. Seattle won for the seventh time in the last lO games. 
Rookie Gil Meche (5-4) who did not get any run support in his last two starts, gave up two runs and six hits and walked eight over 6-plus innings for his third win in his last five starts. 
Jose Mesa pitched lhe ninth for his 31st save in 35 opporLunitics. 
Mike Sirotka (8-12) allnwed three runs and nine hits over seven innings, and fell to 1-4 since the /\II-Star break. 
Carlos Lee's triple with two outs in the sixth drove in Chris Singleton, who had singled, andgave Chicago a 1-0 lead. 
Martinez tied the game with a leadoIT homer in lhe seventh, his 21st. Buhner followed with his 1:,th homn run, also on a 3-2 pitch. It was the ninth time lhl' Mariners have hit back-to-back home runs this season. 
Thn White Sox hit into four double plays in the first six innings. 
Red Sox 4, Royals 3 
Kent Mercker pitched six innings of two-hit ball and new closer Rod Beck earned his first save for Boston on Wednesday night as the Hed Sox beat tlrn Kansns City Hoyals 4-3. 
It was the sixth consecutive victory for the !led S()X -their longest winning streak or the season -and the sixth loss in a row for Urn Hoyals. Boston entered the night with a two-game lead in the /\L wild-card race over Oakland. which played the New York Yankees later Tuesday night. 
Mercker (1-0) struck out live and walked six, two of them as Kansas City loaded the bases with nobody out in the seventh. With the help of three walks and two errors, the Hoyals scored three runs in the inning to make it 4-3 before third basnman Wiltcin Veras made a game-saving catch on Mike Sweeney's hard line drive down tho !inn . 
Beck, who had seven saves with the Chicago Cubs bciforc he was traded to Boston on Tuesday, arriwd at Fmnvay Park about 20 minutes before the first pitch. The scoreboard video screen show!'d him shaking hands with his nflw tcam­matns after he werit out to the bullpen in the fourth inning; five innings later, be earned the first AL save of his earner. 
.losn l{osado (7-U) earnnd his fourth complete ganw but lost his fifth consecutive start. He allowed four runs on six hits and one walk, strik­ing out live in eight innings. 
Rockets to sign rookie Francis for $9 IDillion 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON 
Thfl llouston Hockets signed rookie guard Steve Francis to a contract Wednesday, live days after acquiring his rights from Vancouver in the largest trade in NBA history. 
Francis, the second overall pick in the June draft. had rflfused to sign with the Grizzlies, setting in motion a three-team, 11-player trade. Houston made the deal under the presumption it would be able to get Franr.is under con­tract. 
"I've been waiting for this opportunity to come for a long time," Francis told Houston tele­vision station KRIV. "J think I really worked hard to get myself into this position and nomatter what the money." 
Although terms were not dis­closed, Francis is due a three­year contract worth about $9 million under the rookie salary cap. The parameters of the deal would have been the same in Vancouver. 
''Ste'1e is a special player," Rockets coach Rudv Tomjanovich said. "I don't think you sec a guy with his kind or talent come around often. We feel blessed to have the opportu­nity to bring him here and make him a big part of our future." 
Francis joins a lineup of' 
Scottie Pippen, llakcem Olajuwon and Charles Barkl11y, although Barkley hasn't re­
signed with Houston yet. 
Earlier this week, Francis said that with those guys as his teammates he should lead the league in assists. 
"If I don't ... something will brl wrong," said Francis, Houston's projected starting point guard. 
Along with Francis, Vancouver sent journeyman for­ward Tony Massenburg to Houston for forwards Othella Harrington and Antoine Carr and guards Michael Dickerson and Brent Price. The Hockets also gave the Grizzlies an undis­closed amount of' r.ash plus a first-round draft pick over the next three years. 
Orlando sent Don MacLean and a l'uture lirst-round pick to Houston in exchange for the Grizzlies' Michael Smith, Lee Mayberry, Rodrick l{hodes and Makhtnr Ndiaye. The Magic also dealt their 2002 second-round pick to Vancouver. 
Tho 6-J'oot-3 Francis. a sec­ond-team All-American in his only season at Maryland, aver­aged 17 points, 4.5 rebounds and 4.5 assists while leading tlrn Terrapins to a 26-5 rncord. 
In the two previous seasons, Francis led llouston-arna San .Jacinto Junior Collngn and Alleghany Community College to unbeatnn records. 
-
..... 

*Books delivered in no more than three business days or your shipping is refunded. Some restrictions apply. See www.varsitybooks.com for details. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 2, l 999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Strawberry returns Final calls made for 22 u01pires 
to New York, again 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

In what has become almost an annual ritual for the New York Yankees, Darryl Strawberry made his long­awaited return to the team Wednesday night. 
StrawbArrv's teammates greeted the piaycr who helped them win two World Series r.hampionships with hugs and laughter Wednesday as he returned tu play at Yankee Stadium for the lirst lime since last Sept. 27.
-
"This is the first time in my career that I've been a September callup." said Strawberry, who was brought up from Triple-A Columbus along with infielder Clay Bellinger and right-hander Dan Naulty on I.he day rosters expand. 
"lt feels rf'ally good to be back and see the guys and be part of what this is aII about." 
It has been a long 11 months !'or Strawberry, who missed last year's playoffs after learn­ing he had colon cancer and whose return to the majors this year was delayed by a suspension for his no-contest plea to cocaine possession. 
"When I look in the mirror, I look at the enemy," Strawberry said. "There is no one to blame for this but myself." 
That is a refrain similar to one heard after previous bouts with drugs and alcohol over his stormy career. And there's no telling whether this time will be different. 
"He's at a point in his life where he can't allow himself to be in a situation where any­thing like this can happen again," said Chili Davis, a childhood friend of Strawberrv from Los Angeles. "He has to see problems early and say it's not going to happen and walk away. That's the point he's at in his life." 
Strawberry's teammates, who have stood behind him since his arrest on cocaine and solicitation charges on April 
-
14, welcomed him back once again after his latest trouble. 
"You can't take one number of chances and have it apply everyone," said David Cone, who played with Strawlrnrry for four sr.ason with the New York Mets. 
"He's a very unique case. People will say he's had his chances. But I've seen Darryl do a lot of good with kids in the sev1>ral vears that he's been sober. ·vou can argue both sirles." 
The immediate question for manager Joe Torre is where will Strawberry play and how many at-bats will he get. Strawberry was not in the lineup for Wednesday night's game against Oakland but is expected to start Thursday afternoon at designated hitter to give Davis a day off. 
"It's not a big deal if } play or not," Strawberry said. "My role will be what Mr. Torre wants it to he. I'm just glad to have a chance." 
With Strawberrv out for five months, Ricky Ledee has solid­ified his spot as the left-hand­ed left-fielder and Davis will get the bulk of the at-bats at designated hitter. 
Strawberry will get a chance to show off his power as a pinch-hitter and a fill-in as Torre gives his regulars some time off to prepare for the postseason. 
Strawberrv, who hit. .288 with four homers in 20 games for Columbus, will have to prove that he is worth a post on the postseason roster. 
"He's one of those guys who gets the ball in the air and it doesn't come down," Torre said. "There are not very many people like that. He makes the other manager think before making a pitching change." 
Strawberry's availability has been a recurring theme around the Yankees for the past five seasons. He joined the Yankees on Aug. 4, 1995, after spending four weeks in the minors following a 60-day drug suspension. 

•Great Food 
Monday-Thursday 
7am-llpm Friday-Saturtlay 
7am-12 am Sunday closed 
IOt5 8m1lh Hcnd 4vmme (tormw 111' •:,Illy &So. 81mtl Av,u Sonlh Bm1d, lmlia11a 46fil7 (21!ll287-69G6 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
For 22 umpires, baseball's final message to them Wednesday was: "Yer out!" 
Effective Thursday, 22 of baseball's 68 umpires will lose their jobs. stemming from their union's failed attempt earlier this summer to try to force an early start to negotiations for a new labor contract. 
The umpires' union couldn't prevent their terminations but reached an agreement with baseball Wedrn')sday night that guarantees their full pay and benefits for the rest of the year an<l their right to try to win their jobs back in arbitration. 
In addition, owrrnrs agreed that all umpires on staff as of Friday -there will be 71 of them -are entitled to a post­season bonus, an amount that totals $1.42 million for 71 umpires. 
In exchange, the umpires dropped their court fight and unfair labor practice charges against baseball. 
"We think that i.t's a shame for baseball," said umpires union head Hichie Phillips. "Baseball will suffer from the loss of these enormously talent­ed people that the commission­er's office has arbitrarily deter­mined to hurt." 
Twenty-five umpires who were hired bv baseball in July will become permanent starting Thursday. Many of them have been vacation fill-ins from the minor leagues. 
"I guess they want to send a message that they don't care," Phillips said of baseball's own­ers. "They don't care about the quality of umpires. They don't care about all that experience not going on the field." 
The 22 umpires will be out of work as or 6 a.m. EDT Thursday. 
"The resignations will stand and the new umpires are per­manent employees," said com­missioner Bud Selig. "We am proud to have them on board." 
American League umpire Mark Johnson had tears in his eves as he walked out of' thn c;mrtroom of U.S. District Judge 
J. Curtis Joyner. who had medi­ated the deal. It took l 6 hours of talks between lawynrs for baseball and the umpires' union to produce the agree­ment. 
'Tm disappointed, but thorn's still light at the end of' the tun­nel," he said. "There arc still other options and roads we can try to follow to try to work this out." 
The arbitration process will take several months at a mini­mum, meaning thern's no way the 22 will be back this year. 
Union president Jerry Crawford said tho umpires accepted the deal bncause it is "the ·best we can come up with." 
"We still have the 22 guys' lives on the line." Crawford said. "It gives us a chance and fight another day." 
Richie Garcia, onn of the game's most respectnd umpires who also will lose his job. said thn union did not consult with the rest of the affected umps about the deal. 
"Unfortunately, there wasn't any time. The lawyers come in. say this is what they've got. You have 15 minutns to decide," the AL umpire said. 
Among thosn also losing their jobs are NL crew chiefs Frank Pulli and Terry Tata; the NL's Eric Gregg, known for his 300­pou nd-plus frame; and .Joe 

The Office of Multicultural Student PRESENTS 
West, disliked by some players for his aggressive and somc­timns combativo attitudo. 
l:3aseball spokosman Rich Levin said the deal would cost owners an additional $500,000 beyond what tho umpirns· labor contract r.allnd for. The union, however, must obtain a $100,000 bond and refund that amount if it loses the arbitra­tion. 
On July 14, the union announced 57 umps wcrn quit­ting, effective Sept. 2. They said then thny foarnd a lockout and wanted to spark an early start to negotiations for a labor con­tract to replacn tl11\ onn that expires Dec. 31. 
But thn plan collapsrid whnn 
2.7 umps, mostly in 111<\ AL, either /'ailed to rnsign or quickly rnscindcd their resignations. Baseball then hired 2.5 umps l'rom tho minor lnaguos and accnptod 22 rnsignations. 
Thn union conccdnd that thn 22 umps, whos1\ rnsignations were accepted by the Anrnrican and National liH1guns last month. havn umpirnd tlwir final games this snaso11. In managc­nrnnt's view. their cl<iparturns ar() perrnannnt. In tlw union's view, thPy'II only bn gonn until an arbitrator ordnrs tlrnm rehirnd with back pay. 
Thn postsnason money was a key issue for th1\ umpirns. Somr\ managemnnt lawynrs had argued that tlw 22 being tnrmi­natnd could bn dr\nind thosn bonuses. 
Undnr thnir labor agnwnwnt, 1\ach umpirn gnts an annual $20,000 postsnason bonus, whntlwr tlrny work postsnason gamPs or not. 
Wndnesday's deal allows indi­vidual umpirns to l'orgo tlrn payment and givn it to tlw union. 


It's Annual Welcome Back Picnic 

featuring CHARAMBO 


a Caribbean band playing "merengue," "salsa," and "son" 
When? September 3, 1999 Where? Fieldhouse Mall Time: 4:30-6:00PM rainsight (Lafortune Ballroom) There will be food, prizes, dance, and lots of fun 


EVERYONE IS WELCOMED 
·t• ¦tB
1nst1 ""' 

CO-Sponsored by the Kell099 

Thursday, September 2, I999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
mi 
222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 www.ACEplaces.com/heartland Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-256B 
Hermanson pitches Expos to 8-1 win 
As.sociatcd Press 
l'IIOENIX 

llustin llnrmanson r.ame within two outs of' his second earner shutout Wodnnsday night as llw Montrnal Expos Ima! tlw Arizona 1>1amo11dhacks 8-1. 
I(Prma11so11 {h-12). who liv11s in l'lio1111ix. brought a l1v11-hit­t1•r into llw ninth inning lwf'orn allowing .lay Bnll's ]2nd honwr with orw out. f.uis Conzalez l'ol­lownd with a doublo to Al'lnr allowing Eruhinl Durazo's clou­bln in tho sncond inning, I ll'rnwnson rntirnd I :i in a row lwl'orP (;onzalnz oxtnndnd his hilling stn•ak to ](, ganws with a orH·-out singlP in tlw s1ivPnth. 
1;1•11ff Blum and Wilton (i111•rrPro hit ho11w runs ol'f' i\rimna startPr Omar llaal ( U­Hi, who gaw up fivp runs on six hits in four i1111i11gs. his shorwst outing of t.lw yPar. 
The-1•:xpos took llw last two of' th1· thrPn-ganrn snrios to sli('(' Ari1.011a's IPad ovPr spc:­ond-plarl' San Francisco to (1 1/2 ganws. Tlw Diamondharks lllllllil).(l'd jllSI OIH' run against tl11· l•:xpos in llll' two l11ssPs. 
Hlurn's l1•adoff homPr in tlu• s1•t·o1HI i1111ing wa--; .111sl his sixth 111' [hi' Sl'llSllll liul Sl'('Oncl in as many nights. Guerrero, who also had a leadof'I' double in the lirsl, Ind off Lhr, fourth with his first home run of the season. 
.loso Vidro was 3-for-3 with throe HBls and two doublos. Hondell White had an RBI dou­bln and triple. 
Montreal scored three in the first. Guerrnro doubled and. after an out. Michael Barrett walkcid, then White doublP-d down Lim lnf't finld !inn to drive in a run. Chris Widger and Vidro followed with HBI sin­gles. 
Blum, whosn homnr against Randy .Johnson was I.Im docid­ing blow in Montreal's 2-1 vic­tory Tuesday night. made it 4-0 with his solo shot into the Arizona bullpnn in left lield in tlrn socond. After thn Expos scornd single runs in the l'ourlh and lil'th. Vidro's two-run dou­bh1 off Darnm llolmcs with two outs in thn sixth made it 8-0. 
Arizona rncalled right-hand­ed pitchnr Erik Sabel from TriplP-A Tucson, and hn allowNl onn hit anrl struck out thron in 2 1-3 innings of' rclinl'. Vladimir Cuerrnro sat out his S!'COIHl {'OIIS(!C'.lltivc garnn after l'ouling a ball off his left kne11 in thP scriPs ope,wr on Monday night. 
Resigning umpires speak out 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 
Greg Kosc couldn't mask his emotions as he prnpared for the final game of his 23­year career as a major league umpire. 
As he accepted the lineup cards before Wednesday night's gamn bntween the Baltimore Orioles and Tampa Bay Devil Hays, Kosc had tears in his eyes. 
"This is my last day," he told Orioles manager Ray Miller. 
Kosr. was one of 22 umpires whose resignations were accepted by major league baseball in the wake of' the union's ill-fated at.tempt to try to force an early start to negotiations for a new labor contract. 
Some of the 22 were work­ing Wednosday night in Los Angeles, San Diego, St. Louis and San Francisr.o. Three of' them -Terry Tata, Tom llallion and Bill Hohn worked the Dodgers' 5-4 loss to Milwaukee. 
"We lost a game today. but I'm more sad about the departurn of somn old l'riends," Dodgers manager Davny Johnson said. "We're going to miss them. 1 was 
hoping they'd resolve it somehow. It's a shame, they're going to be missed." 
Frank Pulli, a 28-year vet­eran, was given the final ball after the Cardinals beat Florida 9-3 in St. Louis. Before the game, he pre­tended to ejer.t Cardinals' third-base coach Rene Lachemann. 
0 
We argue with these 
people, but you have to 
remember they 're 
human beings with a 
family and a lot oftime 
in the big leagues." 
Ray Miller Orioles Manager 
"If he's one of the 22 worst umpires in this league. I'm a kamikaze pilot." Lachemann said. "It's a big mistake that they fired him." 
Kosc called Wednesday's game at Camden Yards without incident. Afterward, he shook hands with Baltimore's Brady Anderson, Miller and Tampa Bay man­ager Larry Rothschild. 
Kosc then spoke with Rothschild beforn walking off tlrn field for the last time. 
I le will formally be out of a job at 6 a.m. EDT Thursday. 
Kosc, 50, refused to talk to reporters. But in the parking lot, he said, "l don't know anything. I haven't heard a thing." 
Ile planned to make a phone call f'rom his hotel room, whern the bad news awaited him. 
Kosr. received a business degree in business adminis­tration from the University of Toxas-Ell'aso, where Im competlid in wnightlifting and threw tlrn ~hot pul and hammer. 
Kosc, a 255-pounder, still lifts weights and works out --­on a regular basis. Because baseball players usually pick a trait and tlurn go the oppo­site way with a nicknanrn, he's known among his penrs is "Tiny." 
"We argue with thesn poo­ple, but you have to rcmmn­ber they're human beings with a family and a lot of tim11 in the big leagues," Miller said. 
Ed Hickox was scheduled to work the game at hornn plate, but skipped the game to be in a U.S. District Court in Philadnlphia. wher1\ lawyers for thn umpirns' union and basPhall worknd out the dnal. 
-

See tomorrow's paper for Notre Dame -Michigan football coverage. 

L 
page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 2, 1999 
-
Calendar of Events 

ND Encounter Retreat #57 (Sept. 24-25). Sign Up 
Monday-Friday. August 30-September 20. 103 Hesburgh Library 
Freshman retreat #24 (S~t. 24-25) Sign Up 
Monday, August 30-Sept.f;. rQ.b.er 20 
. ,!. 

103 Hesburgh Library, fj.'2;8adin Hall Targeted Dorms: Badin, Ke~nan, Lewis, O'Neill Family, Pasquer:nla/E$t, St. Edward's, Morrissey, Walsh, and Zahm" 
Catechist lnformatton}U$$JQrf 

Wednesday, September, 4:30-5:30 pm, Montgomery Theatr~:baFqrtune 
Africentric SpirituaUty Freshman Intro Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, Septembef3A, Fqtirna 
Retreat Center 


~_:'::'\fi}\f.,'\·;'._'',
:·]}:_.:JC; . 
RCIA Information SessioniCandidates and 
Sponsors 

Sunday, Septemberi.~, 1:00pm, ND Room0 
LaFortune (also Sept. 12 fQr Candidates 
and Sept. 19 for SPonsors.,;;L:00 ND 
Room) 


Confirmation Information Session~}... , ... 
Tuesday, Septernbef7, Siegffied Half. 7:00pm, Candidates.~ 8:0Q'pm, Sppnsors 
Campus Bible Study 


Tuesday, September7, 7;Q() pmt;Jl~djn Hall Chapel 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshop 

Tuesday, September 7, 10:00 pm, Basilica 
of the Sacred Heart (also September 12, 
2:30) 
Lector Workshop 

Wednesday, September 8;10:00 pm, 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart (also 
September 12, 8:00 pm) 

TWENTY-THIRD SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, September 4 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Sunday, September 5 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, C.$.C. 
Sunday, September 5 
7:15 p.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Ezekiel 33:7~9 

2nd Reading Romans 3:~10 Gospel Matthew 18: 15-20 
WELCOME... BACK! 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
This is "Considerations," Campus Ministry's weekly contri­bution to your required reading. We consider it an important opportunity for us to inform, engage, and even mildly entertain the wider university community. In addition to this weekly col­umn, you will find on this page everything there is to know about the current events sponsored by the Office of Campus Ministry. 
We are located in several areas on the campus and would encourage any or all of you to visit our offices any time, if for nothing dse than an M&M fix now and then. We have offices in the Concourse of the Hesburgh Library, in the North end (entrance) of Badin Hall, in the Lafortune Student Center, and at the Fischer Graduate Residences Community Center. Stop by any time if you have any questions at all regarding our programs or services. Any of the offices will be happy to direct you to whon1ever may know most about that in which you're interested. If nothing else, stop by and pick through our voluminous litera­ture on the many programs which we offer and to which you are welcome. 
With this column we welcome to this community all new students and we welcome back our returning members as well. Notre Dame is only all that it can be when we are all here togeth­er. Those of us who live on campus year round welcome the return of all of you. There is an appropriateness to the hustle and bustle which happens when we are all gathered in this place. Oh, we might have appreciated the solitude for a while but it doesn't take long for one to realize that this university was built for a pur­pose (other than construction!). It is a gathering place for intellec­tual conversation, inquiry and discovery; for spiritual challenge, growth and development; and for service to the larger communi­ty for the building of the kingdom of God. Along with the acade­mic component, we believe that Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns and the residential nature of this university play an integral role in the Catholic education of the men and women of Notre Dame. They are all pieces in the larger puzzle which is Notre Dame, and which makes us unique among universities in this country. 
The team in Campus Ministry would urge you to join with us, and with our colleagues at the Center for Social Concerns and · with the Rectors and residence hall staffs, in our collective jour­ney of faith. The opportunities for involvement are many. Campus Ministry programs are intended to engage all members of this community, students, faculty and staff alike; and it is our hope that all would feel welcome joining us. We have become convinced over time that the fullness of one's Notre Dame experi­ence depends on one's willingness to enter into dialogue with the larger questions of faith and to give oneself in service to the larger community. We are here to help you do just that. 
Know, again, of our welcome. If there is anything that we in Campus Ministry can do for you, please call us. And join us, if you will, in the building of the kingdom of God right here at Notre Dame. 
-
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 

Thursday, Sepremher 2, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Cheers 
continued from page 24 
ball. il is imporlanl for onn to a1>p(1ar sophisticated and coul. IL's hard tn do so whiln chnnr• ing and ynlling for one's team. 
Ilow do you expm:t lo imprnss tlw rans around you unless you stoically watch tlrn game and occasionally grunt'1 
Tlw s,~nior Sllction has obvl· ously lnarnnd this lesson through y,•ars or disappointing srnLsons with tlw Irish. We s«iHm Lo tw smoothly making tlrn lrnn.sition lmtw1H1n tl1!1 rowcli1wss ol' uml1•rgracluat1• dwcring a11d the morn sophis• licalcd alumni approach of' sit­ting on your hands. 
i\l'Ll'r all. llrn grunting man dn~ss1~d in the Cubs uniform rnallv was L1111 only thing that nwritnd any sort 111' applause. 
S1•t:omlIv. tlwrn's ahsolut,ily 1H1 llt'l'd t;, show any signs of srhool solidarity by purchasing "Tlw Shirt." Now. in tlw past. 01w rnuld dismiss this rrivolous 1narclrns11 dtw lo llw strang,• c:olors i11 which "Thn Shirt" was !wing jffintml. 
But nnw. dw• lo il wondPrl'ul­ly dcsig1wd shirt. it is apparPnl Lhat Lhn d1H·ision conwrning wlwtlwr or not to w1Htr Lill' shirt has littll' to do with how llw shirt looks. lnst1•ad it's tlw 1·01H"Pfll of arlually looking lik<• ollwr pt•op!P. 
Tht• l"ootllall ga11ws an• opporltllH' tinws to show off VOlll' k1•1•11 Sl'IISI' ol' rash ion. So j1IPas1•. put that silly shirt away and Wl'/ll' somPthing original lo tlw gan11• lik1• .I. Crnw or Alwn-rombi<' & Fitch. 
II SP!'llls Ilia! Lhis is a l1\Sso11 IPanwd in tinw as wf'II. In fact, tlw 11ppnrdass11w11 havl' l<'iirtH'cl 1111s Jpssnn so w,•11 that 111v l°Hllwr watching tlw ganw al· lwnw. askt•d mn why tl11•y nil Lill' s1ud1•11L SP1'tion off at Llw 20-yard li1w this y1•ar. It se11ms that the wave or blue symbolizing pride in your school tapered off after the 20. 
Finally. if the game is out of mad1 lik11 it was from the first quartPr and beyond, feel free to go home. There's no reason t(I stay and cheer during a bor­ing game. 
Tho sllnior section has learned this alumni tradition as well. What was previously a struggle to lit people on the crowdPd bench became very comf'ortablo, with all of the extra room provided by those oarly departurc•s. What's more, to bn polit11 so that those Vflrti­cally chall(~nged students behind them could see, snme peopln just sat down. At least two lucky seniors missed Arnaz Battle's amazing run dun to their politeness. 
The point is this: At some point in Lhc last few years of their time at Notre Dame, Domors. in general, seem to rnnbraco the idea that they can 1rn long1•r suppnrt their t,•ams with tlw vigor that they did in the past. 
Wt!, as a studnnt body, crili­cizo our alumni section for their lack of noise and general lethargy during the games. At ttw sanm timu, however, it seems that the attitude begins much carli1\r. It seems lo be nwrnly a continual ducline in PXC'.itnnwnt peaking during thn first VPar at Notrn Dame. 
OK·. il was hol and the gamn did havn an "exhibition-like" !\•pl to il. 
But it was still llw first game of tlw vnar. 11· the newly initiat­ed frpshrmm could stand the h1ial. despite the sun beating down on them the entire game, Lhen Lhe wcatlrnrnd vet1!nms of Notrn Damn games should havp !wen able lo stick it out. 
"/'ll(' 1•ieu•s expressed in this col!lmn are those of the author and 110/ neccessarily those of The Obsert•er. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Sosa blasts 56th against Padres 
The ball went an estimated 
Associated Press 
431 feet. hitting a television SAN DIEGO 
camera on a platform that Sammy Sosa hit his major 
juts out from the permanentleague-leading 56th homer 
wall. Wednesday night, a solo shot 
Sosa had been 2-for-14 in the fourth inning to (.143) lifetime against straightaway center field off 
Hitchcock, with no homers. San Diego Padres left-hander 
It was Sosa's second homer Sterling Hitchcock. 
in as many nights and his 
13th in 18 games. Sosa has 26 career homers against San Diego, the second most against any team. He has 30 against Colorado. 
The homer gave Lim Cubs a 1-0 lead and allowed Sosa to stay four ahead of' Mark McGwirn. who hit his 52nd earlier Wednesday night. 

NFL 
Broncos pick Brian over Bubby 
Associated Pr~ss 
DENVEH 
In his lirst day on the job as the Denver Broncos' No. 1 quarterback. Brian Griese felt like a different person. 
"The biggest difference for me was that I had to shave this morning," said Griese. who abandoned his usual facial stubble in anticipation of facing a phalanx or media. "I usually don't shave when I come to work. 
"Actually, I feel a lot differ­ent, but I'm ready for the chal­lenge." 
The challenge is formidable. Not only does he take the reins of a twn-time defending Super Bowl champion which is bid­cling for an unprecedented third straight title, but he never has started an NFL game. 
"Well, there is a lot of pres­sure," he admitted Wednesday. "Everybody knows that. But as long as the pressure I put on myself is greater than all of these peripheral pressures, then I 
Right now, tllere has never been a better time to be part of Arthur Andersen. Creativity and innovation. Enduring personal and professional relationships. The freedom to build and grow. Credentials that are admired and sought out worldwide. Commitment. And great rewards. 

Whether you're interested in Assurance and Business Advisory Services, Business Consulting, or Tax and Business Advisory Services, Arthur Andersen offers countless opport•· :ies for making our world apart of yours. 
Arthur Andersen All Service Une Open House 
Monday, September 13th• 7:00pm to 9:00pm 
At the Notre Dame Campus Center for Continuing Educatiuon Education Auditorium 
Operi to Notre Dame and St Mary's students interested in 
full-time employment with majors in Accounting, Finance, CAPP. CS, Economics, IE, ME, EE and MIS 
Please bring a current resume. 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
Helping In Ways You Never Imagined 
for more mformation, visit www.arthurandersen.com or forward your resume to: Arthur Andersen LLP, Attn: NO/JL 33 W. Monroe Street, MS02-02, Chicago, IL 60603. Fax: 1312) 931-0284. Arthur Andersen UP is an equal opportunity employer. 
think I will be fine. I'm hard on myself -probably a lot harder than you guys [media) will be on me." 
In a stunning move on Monday, Broncos coach Mike Shanahan benched Bubby Brister. the heir apparent to John Elway, in favor of the 24­year-old Griese, a second-year pro who threw just three pass­es in his rookie season. 
"I was surprised like most of' you were," Griese said. "But I thought I was going to play this year at some point -not because Bubby was going to falter, but because it's a long season. Not a lot of guys can make it through the season without getting hurt. 
"So I was preparing myself like I was going to play. Now it's a little bit sooner than I thought, but it's the same situ­ation." 
Brister, outplayed in four preseason games by Griese, complained that he was misled by Shanahan into thinking the job was his, and that he didn't expect to be fighting for his job during meaningless exhibition games. 
Griese saw it differently. 

"When a player feels like he.'s not competing anymore, he's really not a player any­more," he said. "If you are out there and you are not compet­ing, you are not going to be out there long. I understood that Bubby had the job. and I respected that. I had to com­
pete just for myself and  to  
keep myself sharp."  
But Griese  also  came  to  
Brister's defense.  

"A lot of the things that hap­pened this preseason were not his fault," Griese said. "There were a lot of people who let him down. But like I told Bubby, I don't want anything 
tohappen to him because  - 
we're going to need him this  
year. What he did last ynar is  
evidencethat he can do the  
job.  
"lie told me he was going to  
support me. I know he's going  
to be a great help to me."  
Asked if he felt ready for his  
new role, he said, "I think so.  
There are going to be some  
growing pains. But I expect to  
play well, I expect the team to  
win. And I expect us to take off  
l'rom where we were last year.  
"I just have to go out and  
play the way I've bmrn playing.  
I don't have to do anything  
miraculous."  
Griese's teammatns, gearing  
up for Friday night's exhibition  
finaln against San Francisco,  
were more concerned about  
the tnam's overall play than its  
quarterback controvnrsy. The  
Broncos have had two straight  
poor performances in falling to  
2-2 in the exhibition season.  
"It happened. Mike made his  
decision, now we have to move  
on," safety Tyrone Braxton  
said.  
"You can't blame it all on  
Bubby. Defensively. we stunk  
it up and we put tlrn offense in  
some bad situations.  
Whenever you lose games, you  
tend to put the blame on tho  
quarterback. But defonsively  
we have to look in the mirror  
and try to get better."  
Fullback Howard Griffith  
said the offense was "just not  
executing. A lot of times peo­ 
ple want to perceive this as a  
one-man game. but it donsn'L  
happnn that way. It takes 11  
guys being on thn samn page."  - 
Added center Tom Nalnn:  
"Controversy'? That's a media  
thing. I don't f'et\l any contro­ 
versy in tho locknr room.  
We're just trying to gPt lwttnr  
us a team."  

Women's Safety 
& 
Self-Defense 

...... 
The objective of this course is to ~xpose ~ome_n _to ~a sic self-defense techniques as used m real-hfe crisis situa­tions. 
Classes Begin Monday, September 6 10 Sessions on Mondays & Wednesdays 6:00-7:15 Rockne Memorial RM. 219 
Register in Advance at RccSports Registration Fee is $20.00 Call 631-6100 for more Info 
www.nd.edu/~recsport 
.. 

ra 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 2, 1999 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Garcia, Notre Dame boot Northwestern, 1-0 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assisranr Spc,rrs E<liror 
Preshman Rafael Garcia was ready for thn challenge of his first college game, leading the Notre Dame men's soccer team to a 1-0 win over Northwestern to open the season. 
Garcia, a rooki0. out of Palnnlale, Calif.. scored off a cross from senior Andrew Aris. 

It was his only shot on goal in the game. Aris, from New Zealand, was the third-leading scorer last year with five goals and four assists. 
Defense was the strong point for both sides, with two saves by Notre Dame goalkPepPr Gerick Short and two by Northwestern goalkeeper Matt Keeler. The score ended a 67-minute drought fur both teams, with neither team scoring another 
Rockies' Leyland opting for retirement 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
Colorado Rockies manager Jim Leyland, disappointed with the performance of his team, is con­sidering retiring as a baseball manager, according to a Denver newspaper. 
Leyland said after 35 years in professional baseball, he no longer is certain he has the lire in the belly necessary to lead a major league team. 
Lcvland told The Denver Post he lias held recent, serious dis­cussions with Rockies owner Jerry McMorris about stepping down as manager next month, after his first season on the job in Colorado. 
'Tm seriously considering retiring from managing," Leyland said Wednesday. before a 9-8 loss to the Pittsburgh Pirates. lie refused to discuss the situation after the game. 
Less than 12 months after he signed a three-year, $6 million contract with Colorado, many of his friends in the Rockies' orga­nization now believe Leyland is leaning heavily toward retire­ment. 
"It has nothing to do with hav­ing trouble communicating with the players. I love my player on this team. And, believe me. it has nothing to do with the own ­ership of this team. I love this ownnrship," Leyland said from 

... 
1ST MEETING OF THE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 
'IONIGHT 7:00 PM 
127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL 
,. . 
COME HEAR WHAT 
WE'RE ALL ABOUT 
FREE PIZ~A!!! 
his clubhouse office, during an exclusivfl interview with The Denver Post. 
"My problem is simply a case of whether I have all the ingredi­ents necessary to do everything it takes to do this job anymore. I just don't know. It's something I'm tossing and turning about every night. I just don ·t know." 
The Rockies, who had high hopes of competing for a playoff spot this year, are currently in last place of the NL West. 
"It has been disappointing," said Leyland. who takes full n~sponsibility for an under­achieving team. 
"There comes a point in your life when you"got to decide what you really want to do with your life," said Leyland, who admits to missing his family while trav­eling during the season. 
He has also asked McMorris if 
it would be possible for him to 
remain with the organization in 
a reduced rule, with less respon­
sibility and constraints on his 
time. 

Although the Detroit Tigers and Los Angeles Dodgers both recruited him before Leyland joined the Buckies a year ago, he insisted his departure would indicate the end of a managerial career whose highlights have included more than 1,000 major league victories and a World Series championship with Florida in 1997 . 
ND STUDENT AFFILIATES OFTHE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY 
goal after Garcia in the game. Notre Dame proved more hrna­cious in pushing the ball down the field, getting off eight shots on the goal to Northwestern's three. 
The Irish won despite an inex­perienced squad this season, rnlurning only four startnrs from last y1mr. They lost most of their team to graduation, and sopho­mnre Shane Walton left to play for Notre Dame's football team. 
Short, the lone captain of this year's squad, was granted a fifth year after a separated shoulder last season. He proved capable Wednesday by not 1.etting a ball get past him against Northwestern. He had not played in a gamfl sine(~ 1996. 
The victory marked thn sixth­straight win in Sflason openers for Notre Dame. The team also surpassed the 300-win mark in the history of Notre Dame soc­cer, earning win No. 301. Coach Mike Herticelli is in his 10th year at Notre Dame. Ile has led tlH'\ t11am to three NCM tourna­ment appearances during his tenure, as well as throe confor­cnce championships in the past six years. 
The Irish open their home campaign and their qunst ror a Big East championship against Boston Collegn on Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. 

Hathaway's drive leads Belles 
By KATIE McVOY Spons Writer 
Leading Saint Mary's golf team this year is returning sophomore Mary Claire Hathaway. Last season, Hathaway led the team with a 
99.6 stroke average for the nine-round tour­nament. Hathaway hopes to continue to help lead the team and to 
become a more consistent 
player.  
''I've  always  had  an  
interest  in  golf,"  
Hathaway said  .  "Being  

on the golf team gave me the opportunity to develop my skills to compete at the college level." 


Hathaway has golfed  Hathaway  
since her freshman year  
in high school and being a  part of the Saint  

Mary's golf team has taken her interest to a new level. 
llathaway had the leading score for the Belles in three matches last year. She hopes lo continue leading the learn this season. 
"My goals for this year arc to continue to lead the team to another successful season," Hathaway said. 
In addition to increaS(\d hiadership, Hathaway is also looking for more consistency in her play. 
"From what. lwr scorns wr.re this summ<'r," coach Theresa Pekarek said, "she has bPconw more consistr.nt and will continu<1 to work on her consistency throughout tho S(\ason." 
As a team playor, Hathaway brings a high energy l(wcl. 
"She has a lot of enthusiasm," P<'kar<'k said. "She has a vPry positive attilud<' and sh<' keeps the t<1am attitudn positivP lrnnrnsP of 
it." 
Hathaway , a communications major, wants to incorporat11 golf in hPr carnnr. Slw l10p1\s to represent an athlntir corporation as a spok<1sp<'rson. Slw lrnliPvns lwr nxpnrinnrn at Saint Mary's will open up doors. 
"I am open lo opportunities that will c:om<' my way," llathaway said. "As a result or my education at Saint Mary's." 
Hathaway is looking forward to goll"s snc­ond year as a varsity sport. 
"We have a young team this yPar with great potential," sht! said. "I am very excitnd !'or tlw upcoming season." 

Senior 
"Pre-Game" BBQ 

.. are you ready for the Irish to beat Michigan this Saturday? 
When: Thursday, Septemeber 2nd 
Where: in front of Senior Bar 
Why: to eat tree food, listen to some cool music, and get details about roadtripping 
to Michigan for the ga1ne! 


Write for Observer Sports. Call 1-4543. 
M QC 

Thursday, Sepcemb(:r 2, 1999 The Ohserver . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

Fox TROT 
HERE, B1RD,-· HEEEl<E, 8tR!Y'I'· fL'( OVER HEEEEERE, ~ 81R01ES... .f .t 81R01ES... -' .J S1RD'I'· BtRDtES... r 
I I 

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
WHAT I Wov1.0rfT GIVE To 8E t>oc:ToR Ool1TT\E SoMETiMES. 
G1VE IT 
OP. 
..
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

The Internet: The future of business, the key to education, and the home of 17 million pornographic sites. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 
1 Lazybones's 21 catchword 1 Tease 29 mercilessly 
11 Like cats, once 31 14 Pursuers of 32 goals 33 
15 Ladies called her "the Fair" 34 16 Old cagers' org. 11 Like some 
38 

thunderstorms 42 1s Middle figure 
44

1&  Ely ot Tarzan  
fame  
20  Easel  45  
21  Toscanini's birthplace  46  
22  Life's blueprint  47  
:za  Young 'uns  
24  Minstrel's  
offering  46  
25  In  

beam. I@nd.edu 

------_::_:__=::__:::_:_:_.::-=-===-::--_=-=-=-~--:-=:-=-===-==-=-==-=-===-==--====================~==========-=-================ 
Airport abbr. It's taken during 42-Across Eyebrow darkeners Ex-orphan Land in !'ocean Literary monogram Passenger status Grows Marriage-day centerpiece Barely get, with "out" Architect Saarinen "With _ in My Heart'' Hump­shouldered beasts Laundry detergent brand 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

_49 Ruins 007's 

martini so Non-Polynesian s1 Tennis call 52 Type size 53 Detective sort 54 Oahu-to-Maui 
dir. ss Furnace !odder 56 Secret doctrine 57 Scout leader, 
maybe 
58 Edgar Lee Masters's " Rutledge" ­
59 "Yours truly" and others 
DOWN 
1 Error 2 Film stock 3 Ben Cartwright, 
e.g. 
Chorus cries 
5 Unlikely candidate for prom king 
4 


s Hydrocarbon 

Puzzle by M. Pres1on Sherwood
suffix 

21 "I can resistSend back everythinge Staying power? 
except s Symbol of temptation" wit 
commitment 

28 "Holy smokes!" 10 Seat o! Jackson 
30 _de Mayo
County, Tex. 11 Helmet 34 Ready 12 Electrical 35 Last empress of 
insulation Brazil 
material 36 Poked holes in, 13 Verve say 21 Roller derby 37 Sammy Davis Jr. 
equipment autobiography 24 Reception, e.g. 38 French-born 2s Little wood Met diva 
39 40 41  Ladies of Spain Arthur Godfrey played it Pocket change for 39-Down  47 49 so  "Two-Faced Woman" star, 1941 Watchdog org. Knit, in a way  
43  It sometimes needs boosting  53  Media monitor, for short  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available tor the best ot Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Jimmy Connors, Mark Hannon, 
Chrisla McAuliffe, Terry Bradshaw, 
Eric Dickerson, Olivier Grouillard 
Happy Birthday: Staying centered 
and stabil• will be the key to reaching 
your goals for this year. Don·t over­
load your plate; instead, work dili­
gently at the things that are most 
important to you. The more you 
focus, the better you'll do. Detail will 
be important when it comes to ob­
jectives. Your numbers: 8, 23, 27, 31, 
36, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Con­
trol your emotions at work. You must 
not get involved in other people's pri­
vate affairs. A new lover will come 
into your life if you join new clubs or 
mingle with individuals you meet at 
work.0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 
need to integrate something new into 
your life: new people, new interesls 
M perhaps travel. You are reluctant to 
gt't into fitness, but should reconsidt'r 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Direcl your efforts into making money. Put in extra hours at work. Business meet­ings will reveal valuable iniormalton. Call your mate so he or she doesn't 
feel neglected. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have a greater interest in foreign cultures. Your thirst for knowledge will lead you in new directions. Join groups that can provide you with 
unusual information. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Fevers, colds or flus w,11 be a direct result of burning the candle at both ends. You must sit down and work out a budget you can live with. 0000 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll 
have problems with your partner if 
you )('t emotions stop you (n1m sort­
ing out your diff,•re1,ces. Finish pro­
jects regardless ol the setbacks. You 
will need discipline to achieve 00 
LIBRA (Sepl. 23-Oct. 22): You will 
have rath<>r unusual ideas for work­
related projects. Express your obj,·c­
tives to superiors before you proceed 
Changes will be beneficial. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your 
creative talPnt may well b,• recog­
nized bv olhers. Don'I be afraid to 
push your beliefs and attitudes. You 
will have the ability to capture the 
interesl of others. 000 · 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Der. 21): 
Limitations are likely if you take on 
too much or overexert )'Ourself. Don't 
take chances with your health. Skin, 
bones and teeth problems will prevail 
ii you neglect them. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Talk to a close fri(•nd regarding a p<'r­sonal matler. You have been c,nlfusL•d lately and need to gel an ob1ertive point of \'iew. Try to be completely hones! when describing the situation. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Money-making investments will lead you in a direction that will help ease your worry and gi\'e you tlw fret>dom to do things you've always wanted to do. Don't waste time vacillating 
00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Unex­pected good fortune is apparent Express your protessional demands and ask for the opportunity to ha\'e more responsibilit)'-Your home will ,•xp,•rience beneficial ch,,ngt'S 00 
-
Birthday Baby: You will always be willmg lo take contwl nl ,1111 S1tuallnn you face. You are strong, rouragrou, and willing to tell it like 1t is You have a Int to offer and will get a lot in return. · 
(N<;ed advice? Check out Eug,•111a's W,•b s11,•s al astroadvice.com, 
eugemalastcom, astromate.com.) 
:, · l')tlll UntY1.•rs.1l f'nw,s SynJK,lh' 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Ill. 



Last Call 
Wednesday marked the last day for 22 ofMajor League Baseball's 68 umpires. Their actions stem from failed attempts by the union to form a new lahor contract.

PORTS 
O
THE 
BSERVER
page 24 
VOLLEYBALL 
Leffers leads Irish in opener against Valpo 
• Senior captain tallies 10 kills in three-game win 
By MATT OLIVA 
Spmrs Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball learn started off the 1999 sea­son with a big win ovor Valparaiso. 
The Irish (l-0) won in straight games 15-4, l 5-:i and 15-2. 
Leading tlrn Irish in lhe victo­rv over tho Crusadflrs was 6­friot-4 senior captain Mary Leffers. Tlrn middle blocker had 10 kills in the match. while sophomores Kristy Krcher and Marcie Homhack had eight and seven kills. rnspectively, t'or the Irish. The tt>am had a three­game toled of 40 kills. 
.Junior sl'tter captain Denise Boylan kd all players with 27 sets in thf' match. Freshman defensive specialist Keara Coughlin contributncl a match­high seven digs for the team. 
Irish head coach Debbie Hrown was pleased with her team's performance in the opr!ning match. "We did not know what to expect from Valparaiso," Brown said. "We just trind to concentrate on our side of the net and J think we executed pretty well. This was a very good opener for us." 
Notre Dame finished the 

match with a three-ganw 36.1 
percPnt attack, whilP holding 
the Crusaders to a mere 9 per­
cent attack. 
Contributing to the Irish 
domination over Valparaiso 
were nine serving aces, led by 
Coughlin's three aces. 
Brown will look for her two 
captains to provide luadership 
and to make big plays for the 
Irish throughout the season. 
LPffers and Bovian are two of 
thP five returning starters for 
this experienced Irish squad. 
The Irish will also trv to fill the 
place of middle· blocker 
Lindsey Treadwell who gradu­
at(~d last yrmr and "led the Irish 
in aces, digs and blocks. 
Tim weekend tournament 
will prove to bo big challengP 
for the Irish. 
"Our team knows that vvo executed well today, we didn't struggle or stumble," Brown ·said. "Last weekend we made a fow mental mistakes against the alumni. but there was an improvement in today's mat.ch. The teams coming in this weekend will be stronger so we will have to keep improving 
and take it to another level." 
The Irish begin the 
Shamrock Invitational at 7 
p.m, Friday night against 
Northwestern and will contin­
ue with a match Saturday at 7 
µ.m. against Pacific. They will 
wrap up the weekend Sunday 
afternoon with a 3 p.m. match 
against Louisville. 

VOLLEYBALL 
Belles drop season opener in three games 
By KATIE McVOY 
Sports W ricer
-
The Belles dropped their season opener against Elmhurst College Wednesday night, 3-0. 
Although they lost, head coach Handa Shields said the Bepes played strong and have potential. 
"They played outstanding," Shields said. "Especially l'or being thfl lirst game at home. That can make it a little more nervous." 
During the first game, Elmhurst led off with the first point on the third volley. Saint Mary's answered immediatP-ly with a poinl of its own. Elmhurst increased the game tempo and scored thre(' con­secu tivc points against the Belles. 
Saint Mary's came back with five points of their own; the last one coming on a strong hit by Jolie Lo Beau. 

"They played outstand­ing. Especially for being the first game at home. That can make it a little more nervous. 
Randa Shields volleyball head coach 
The control of the game then switched from Saint Mary's to Elmhurst and the game was tied at 7. 
Following a round ol' v0lleys, LeBeau and Mary Rodovich tied the game at 10 by com­bining for a strong block With the game lied at 14, Elmhurst controlled the action and won the game, 16-14. 
Saint Mary's lost some of its energy and focus during the second game. They played mosl of the game on the defensive, trying to make up lost points. 
Elmhurst once again led off w.ith the first point and kept the lead the entire game. The Belles fell behind 8-3, but came back to score three points, before finally dropping the game 15-6. 
Saint Mary's regained some control in the third game. Elmhurst scored the first point for tho third time in the match. This time the Belles answered by scoring four points before Elmhurst scored again. 
The game continued at a high pace with both teams looking strong. The game was tied at 7 following an Elmhurst kill. Saint Mary's scored its last point of tho game on an ace by Suzanne Martin that tied the game at 
12. Elmhurst won the game 15-12. 
In the first and the third games, Saint Mary's showed that it can be competitive. Shields said she had confi­dence in the Belles after the game. She felt that although they were inconsistent, the Bolles played a good match. 
"Sometimes we were a little shaky," Shields said. "But thflre were moments when we played at our best." 
Some of those moments included :rn assists by Martin and 17 digs and IO kills by Agnes Bill. 
Jayne Ozbolt had a solid game with 14 digs and three aces. LcBeau led the Belles defense with seven blocks. 
Before Saturday's match, there are some techniques that the Belles want to work on. 
"Definitely tips," Shields said. "Also, the defense stands up and doesn't move forward as much as I'd like them to." 
"We'd like to work on being more consistent," Martin said. "And playing to potential the whole game." 
Saint Mary's plays at 10 a.m. Saturday at Benedictine University Quadrangle. 
pages 18 & 19 Thursday, September 2, 1999 
Cheering 101: Lessons for the new class 
Frnshman year: it was a time when calling a date from Lim dogbook w,is acceptable, cramming 100 sweaty bodies in a room 
whiln drinking Brian Churney dwap brwr was 
fun, and 
On the I-lot you 
Corner actually 
bragged 
Lo your parnnts about monting a l'ootball player. 
It was a tim<i wlwn Bob DaviP's inf'amous pnp rally s1wech actually sound<\d gnnui1w and original. YPs, those worn tho davs. 
Freshnwn yuar \vasn't all happiness and joy, though. Tough limns worn as p!Pnti­ful as Hon l'owlus over­throws. Many lessons nPcd­Pd to bP IParnPd in liw classroom. in tlw rnsidPrw<• halls and at football ganws. Them wPrP lnssons: tlw songs, tlw l'iH)Crs. tlw tradi­tions. 
But tlrnrn weru also the embarrassing lessons. \Vlwtlwr it lw lr1arning that third and 17. on tlw 25, wlwn we 'rn alrnad by 28 points in the f'1iurth quartPr is not a kPy play. Lnarning that tlrn f'hant of' "I.Pt's (;o Irish" should not be per­formed during Urn alma mawr. or learning that a onn-point victory over Purdue docs not warrant tlrn charging of the lield by thn studnnt sr1ction. 
We uppnrclassnwn havP all had to lc1arn from our mistakes. Like their prede­cnssors, this freshman class has sonw invaluable lessons still to be !named. 
So. take !med lirst-year students. These simple lc)ssons could savn you from future embarrassnrnnts. 
In case any of tlrnsn l1~ssons confuse you. the upperclassmen. nspncially the seniors, can serv11 as a good example. These battle­trodden warriors have made the mistakes and have moldnd tlrnms<ilvns into a perl'Pct cxamplr, of properly behaving specta­tors. 
First of' all, the loud cheering rnsonating from your section was uncalled l'or. Why would anyone cheer so loudly during the first gamn of' the year? You should save those cheers until after the team has proven to you that they am a good team. 
Plus, when watching fool-
see CHEERS/page 21 

at Michigan vs. North Carolina • Cross Country Soccer t._~ Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. ac Valparaiso lnvirarional at Marian College 
SPORTS ~ e 
Sepe. II, I0a.m. Saturday, 1 p.m. 

ATA • 
Volleyball vs. Boston College Volleyball vs, Northwestern Saturday, 7:30 p.m. at Benedictine
GLANCE ~ e 
Friday, 7 p.m. Saturday, 10 a.m. 





