
That's disgusting 
Ask asilly question ... 
Scene takes a look at a book that chronicles 
Columnist Mel Tardy discusses multicultural 
Monday
some of life's most "disgusting" elements. 
education outside the classroom. 

OCTOBER 4, 
Scene . page 13 
Viewpoint . page 10 

1999 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOLXXXIII NO 28 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


SMC Pride Week kicks off today with rally 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Nt:ws Writer 
Tho winds of change arc in tlrn air for Saint Marv's Pride l>uy. Tlw c1•lPhration ·or pride. nstablishccl th re1, yea rs SMC Pride ago. has this 
Rally

y1iar become Saint Mary's Library Green Pride Week. 
5:30 p.m.W h P n Marilou Eldrnd lmcanw president of tho Collegr1 thrne years ago, the mayors or Mi!ihawaka. South 
Bend and Elkhart declarnd Oct. 6 lL<-; pride day for the College. 
"We really want­
Saint Mary's c d to involve the College. I am excit­entire campus and ed they have been tour.h on everv so helpful with uspoct: academic·, pride week," said social and spiritu­senior Emily al," student body Koelsch, who 
presidenl Nancy helped coordinate 
Midden said. 
Picnics, pep ral­
lies, freH T-shirts. bands and 
contests am planned for stu­
dents. · 
The week will kick off with a 
pep rally today at 5:30 p.m. on the library green with special recognition for athletes. T­shirts will also be distributed. 
"The T-shirts are sponsored by the Alumnae Association of Pride Week. 

Tuesday's events will focus on academics and "promoting students to show pride in their majors," said senior Angie Little. 
Presentations sponsored by Students Independent Study and Research Grants (SISTAR) will be given at 7 p.m. Tuesday by students and pro­fessors presenting research 
projects from the past year. These presentations are intended to show the commu­nity what is being done acade­mically at the College. 
Wednesday is the official "pride day" for the week and students will have the oppor­tunity to talk with Holy Cross sisters in the dining hall. 
A prayer service in Le Mans Hall will wrap up the week's events on Friday. Saint Mary's is also co-hosting the pep rally at the Joyce Center with Notre Dame that night. 
"We're so excited. It will be neat to see all different aspects of [the College] dur­ing the week," Midden said. 
------------------------------------------------·--­
Go •.• IRISH 


By KATE WALTER 
New.; Writer 
Recognizing national Hospect Life Week, the Notre Damo/Saint Mary's Right to Life organization will sponsor r.11rnpus-wide activities that celebrate all stages of life. 
"We want to call attention to the fact that there are plenty of ways to support and pro­mote the sanctity of life in every stage each and every day right on campus," said Right to Life co-president John Linn. 
Activities began Sunday 
morning with the Life Chain in service led by Father Michael South Bend which took place Baxter will take place at on Ironwood Street and was Stonehenge. sponsored A baby by the local shower for
"It's about every stage oflife

chapter of single Right to and the fact that there mothers is Life. planned for
are so many ways

A Pro-Wednesday.
to support every stage 

Life Rosary All in tc r­at the on a daily basis. " ested in Grotto will attending take place should
John Linn

tonight at meet at 
8:30, and co-president, ND/SMC Right to Life L i b r a r y will be Circle at geared toward prayer for 4:45 p.m. to walk over to death row prisoners. Hannah's House. On Tuesday, a short prayer At 3:45 p.m. Thursday, a 
group of volunteers will be leaving from Library Circle to take a tour of St. Joseph County Hospice for the terminally ill. 
A Cemetery for the Innocents will be set up Friday on the Hesburgh Library lawn. White crosses will be placed on the lawn to represent the number of fetuses aborted daily in the U.S. 
There will also be Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament in the Lady Chapel of the Basilica from noon to 5 p.m. Friday. 
On Saturday, Hight to Life will sponsor a concession stand at the South Quad flagpole. 
see LIFE/page 4 
MULTICULTURAL 
University opens new institute 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
News Writer 
Notre Dame has established· a new Institute for Latino Studies and appointed Gilberto Cardenas to serve as 
assistant 

provost and direc­tor of the institute. 
" T h e rapidly growing Latino population 
Cardenas  in  the  
United  
States. and  
its vibrant and  expanding  

presence in the Catholic Church, make the l1stablish­ment of a Latino studies insti­tute at Notre Dame a natural fit," Hatch said, adding that he considers the institute vital to the growth of Notre Dame. 
Hatch also said he thinks the institute will benefit from Cardenas's previous experi­ence. An associate professor at the University of Texas, Cardenas was also executive director of the Inter­University Program for Latino Research, a research consor­tium that has since been relo­cated to Notre Dame. 
"We are delighted that Gilberto Cardenas has accept­ed the challenge to build this institute and we believe his appointment immediately places Notre Dame at the forefront of an intellectually and culturally important disci­pline," Hatch said. 
Cardenas, who said he is "happy to sec that there is an inviting and open environment for Latino studies," said Notre Dame needs the Latino insti­tute to "bring teaching and research programs to the University that are needed." 
In addition, he said the institute will offer service opportunities associated with academic programs. 
"This institute is distinctive compared to other centers at major graduate research institutions because it is the only one that focuses on the diversity of Latino and Hispanic populations," Cardenas said. 
Both Cardenas and Hatch said they have many expecta­tions for the institute, includ­
see LATINO/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, October 4, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Prideful Cotton 
I could not have looked more casual yesterday. 

I wore blue adidas pants, a T-shirt and a hood· ed Notre Dame sweatshirt and spent my day at the library and the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. 
I chose this outfit for me, to be laid back and not worry about looking good just to study and .vrite this column. [ did not choose it for any other reason than to be relaxed and comfortable. 
As I procrastinated and watched "Felicity," my 


cheeks flushed with anger 
Christine Kraly

and my throat tickled with laughter. Was the topic of this episode really about how 
Associate

Felicity's sexy, red dress 
News Editor

would win back Ben's affec­tions? It sounded more like a campaign for the feminist movement than a prime-time teen drama. 
For those of you who didn't see the show, I'll rehash the sadly realistic Apisode: Felicity loses Ben and thinks a little sleazy dress will win him back. As the female population crosses its fin­gers, Hen takes her back after seeing her in a slinky red dress. (Here's where the female popu­lation uncrossed its fingers and crossed its arms in protest.) 1-'elidty soon realizes that she has done the wrong thing in saving her relationship and says that the way you dress '"only changes the way you look, not the way you feel." 
Well, amen, Felicity: welcome to reality -a place where black pants rule the nightlife and girls wear bikinis on the quad in 70-degree weather. It's here, in reality, where you'll also discover things like cotton and that no, it's not that hot outside. 
I made a grave mistake earlier this year. I wore a great pair of dressy, black sandals to a party (Come on, girls, you know the ones I'm talking about: They've got straps that criss-cross, wind around your toes and look perfect with "going out" clothes). My idiocy (and possibly a little alco­hol) led me to walk all the way to and from Turtle Creek in them. l could barely walk the next day. 
As l tended to my foot wounds the next morn­ing, a thought occurred to me -you're an idiot. I would've had just as much fun the night before and not torn my feet to shreds if I had worn Nik.es. Style does not have to mean pain. It means confidence, coordination and charisma. Most of the time, high, cutesy black shoes add nothing more to a person's look than a few inches. 
This doesn't mean that my friends and I don't like to "hooch out" every once in a while. We have our "black pants" nights -plush with the least comfortable shoes, most daring tops and darkest lipstick we can find. What we don't change is ourselves. _ 
Our giggles don't raise an octave, our conversa­tion doesn't wane. We are us -the same people in the adidas pants and sweatshirts on the second floor of the library on Sundays. 
We all dress for success in some manner in our lives -the classy suit for the job interview, the blue chiffon number for your cousin's wedding and yes. the pair of black pants for courting ritu­als at Notre Dame. What most of us fail to realize is that we already own the most essential piece of our wardrobe to success -a personality. 
So black-pants brigade, listen up: wear jeans once in a while. It's okay, you'll still flirt, you'll still be cute, you'll still be you. Just comfortably. 
You don't have to be ashamed if there's no lycra in your life. Wear that cotton with pride. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Finn Pressly  Amanda Greco  
Maureen Smithe  Graphics  
Erin LaRuffa  Scott Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Bill Harr  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Marr Margaret Nussbaum  Joe Scark  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-1000) is p~btish~d Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Obierver is a member of rhe A-..<:ociated Press. AU reproduction rights are reserve~ 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday 
. 
International Movie . President's Addr~ lo the . lnterRace: Center for . Discussion: Latin Festival: Montgomery Faculty: 101 DeBartolo Hall, Social Concerns, 5:30 p.m. American Roundtable, Theatre, 8 p.m. 4:3Op.m. . Theatre: Hedda Gabler. Library Auditorium, 8 p.m. 

. 
Holocaust lecture: Yaffa . Alm: ShallWe Dance, Washington Hall, . Theatre: Hedda Gabler, Eliach, 125 DeBartolo Hall, Hesburgh Center Auditorium, 7:30 p.m. Washington Hall, 4p.m. 7p.m. . Faculty Senate Meeting: 7:30 p.m. 

. 
Film: Citizen Kane, . lecture: John Giuliano, 202 McKenna Hall, 7 p.m. . AcoustiCafe: LaFortune Annenberg Aud., 7 p.m. CSC, 7p.rn. Student Center. 9 p.m. 


Homophobic graffiti defaces Harvard 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Winthrop and Mather Student Houses have been the victims of homophobic graffiti five times in the past two weeks, and in strongly worded letters, House Masters have promised to do their best to find the culprits. Vandals scrawled homophobic messages on Winthrop House message boards in two separate incidents over the past several days, according to Russell Deason, the House's tutor for bisexual, gay and lesbian students. Sophomore Michael Hill, whose Winthrop House mes­sage board was one of those vandalized, said this was the first time he had boon the victim of such an incident. Hill is also co-chair of the Bisexual, Gay, Lesbian, Transgender and Supporters' Alliance (BGLTSA). And in Mather House this Tuesday, resident tutor Kyriell Muhammad found homophobic graffiti posted on a mes­sage pad near his door. Two weeks earlier, a picture of the tutor dressed in a gown with the words "BGLTS Safe Zone" was removed from his door. Several days later, posters advertising the House's Queer Film Series, orga· nized by Muhammad, were defaced. House Masters said they were unaware of any link between the incidents. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Compiled from U.Wire reports 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Oklahoma State student builds explosiv·es 
STILLWATER, Okla. "Other peoples living could be affected," she said. "Even if The Oklahoma State University people do not intend explosive
environment could be 

freshman charged with having explo­devices to result in tragedy. they sives in his dorm room officially affected . .. Accidents are sometimes do. Accidents arc events withdrew from the university events people didn't intend to people didn't intend to happen." Monday and pleaded innocent to the Gon1,ales said he was "just making
happen."

felony Friday. a firecracker." 
Erik Gonzales, 18, of Sulphur, "People abuse the word 'bomb'. It Ok.la., said he was just making fire­Peg Vitek depends on whose hands it's in. It's crackers out of an interest in science. the finger on the trigger. not the
OSU student conduct oficer 

"To me it's not meant to be destruc­gun," he said. tiv c ,'· Gonzales told The Daily was in possession of fireworks, Eaton said Gonzales, who was a O'Collegian Thursday. chemicals and gunpowder. said mechanical engineering major, told Gonzales was arrested early Sept. Everett Eaton, OSO police chief. police he grew up on a farm and 
12. He was charged with the manu­Eaton said Gonzales had "a home­enjoyed building fireworks and facturing and possession of explo• made pipe bomb ... made out of a shooting them off. sives and was released on $1,000 plastic pipe that looked like a large "He said it was his hobby and ... he bond. His preliminary hearing is firecracker." had no intent to harm anyone or scheduled for Oct. 11. If convicted, Regardless of Gonzales' intent, his destroy any property," Eaton said. he faces three to 10 years in prison, chemicals and explosives posed a Gonzales withdrew from OSU one a $10,000 fine, or both. danger, said Peg Vitek, OSU student day before his formal university 
Gonzales had been constructing an conduct officer. hearing in front of a five-member explosive device in a plastic tube. He "Other people's living environment panel of students, faculty and staff. 

U. of Virginia board member stays 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va 

Virginia Governor James Gilmore said in a letter Thursday that he does not have the power to remove Board member Terence Ross from the University of Virginia's Board of Visitors despite a request from the Virginia State Conference of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. "Members of college hoards are appointed for four­year terms and do not serve at the will of the Governor under Virginia law," the letter states. In the letter, Gilmore said he remains "strongly com­mitted to.equal opportunity and I believe any form of discrimination is wrong. The University of Virginia's Board of Visitors and President John Casteen have the responsibility to develop an admissions policy that is legal and ensures educational opportunity for students of all races." Casteen said earlier this month that the university should maintain its com­mitment to equal opportunity in its admissions poli­cies. Gilmore's letter encouraged the members of the NAACP to communicate with the Board and Casteen. 
S Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 4. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Munday 
'tuesdAY 

w~anesaa, 

l~ati,lay, 

@1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
PlfBSlln: 

® © CJ ~ [uJ . ~ Q 

H!_it1 _ -~-Showers Rain . T-atormlj, Fl~rrleu ~new Ice Sunny_ Pt. Cloudy_Cloudy _J
Priday ,, ,·, ,.~­
~·,} ':.~.,. ' ·~/.. I" 

Atlanta 76 59 Las Vegas 92 60 Phoenix 99 72 Ba~imore 71 51 Memphis 72 53 Sacramento 69 54
~~Aa~a* ~ ~ 
Boston 72 53 Milwaukee 51 40 St. Louis 59 41
,,",,-~,~ ....... +.+.+ ~-=-~ ¥ ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rafn Ff~rHes ~o-~ fee Sunny Pt. CfDudy Cloudy Chicago 52 37 New York 69 50 Tampa 87 72 Via A~Odated Press GreJ)hbNel Houston BB 64 Philadelphia 66 51 Wash DC 72 52 

Mone.lay, October 4, 1999 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
page 3 


Engineering dean to speak at Michiana business lunch 
A faith community of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual Students and their Friends 
sponsored by Campus Ministry 
will gather on 

Wednesday, October 6th, 8:00 p.m. 
Fr. Nicholas Ayo, c.s.c. will present reflections and lead discussion on The Lord's Prayer 
Please contact Tami Schmitz at 631-3016 or Tom Doyle, c.s.c. at 631-3391 for information on meeting place 

Special to The Observer 
Frank lncropera, McCluskey dean 
of Notre Dame ·s College of 
Engineering will be tho keynote 
speaker at the annual President's 
Luncheon for Michiana Business 
Leaders Wednesday. 
Hosted by Cniversity president 
Father Edward Malloy, the 12th 
annual event is scheduled from 11:30 
a.m. lo 2 p.m. in the concourse of the Joyce Center. Some 300 arna corpo­rate leaders arc expected to ait.cnd. 
lncropera's talk is entitled 
"Technology and Society: Past, 
Present, and Future." [twill discuss 
how innovation and technology shape 
lives. 

Incropera was named the McC!oskey dean of Notre Dame's College of Engineering in 1998. Also the Brosey professor mechanical engineering, he came to Notre Dame from Purdue L'niversity, where he headed the mechanical engineering 
department. 
[ncropera has been honored by the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, receiving its Senior Scientist Award in 1988. Also in 1988, as a fellow of the American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers (AMSE), he received the society's Heat Transfer Memorial Award for 20 years of research accomplishments. He has also received ASME's Melville Medal for best original paper and Worcester Reed Warner Medal for his contribu­
tions to the fundamental literature of 
heat transfer, including his textbooks 
on the subject. 
Incropera has been a visiting pro­
fessor and researcher at the National 
Aeronautics and Space 
Administration's (NASA) Ames 
Research Center, the University of 
California at Berkeley, and universi­
ties in Munich, Germany, and Pisa, 
Italy. 

lncropera has received four major 
Purdue teaching awards, as well as 
the 1982 American Society of 
Engineering Education (ASEE) Ralph 
Coats Hoe Award for teaching excel­
lence and the 1983 ASEE George 
Westinghouse Award for teaching 
and research achievement. 
A membnr of the National Academy of Engineering, Incropera has direct­ed numerous sponsored programs and is the author or co-author of eight books and more than l 90 archival journal articles. His research includes free and mixed convection, double-diffuse convec­tion, boiling and two-phase flow, materials processing and electronic 
cooling. 
A native of Lawrence, Mass., Incropera received his bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology. He earned his master's and doctoral degrees, also in mechanical engineering, from Stanford University. 




A WELCOMING PLACE FOR RESPECTFUL DIALOGUE 
Sponsored by the Standing Committee on Gav and Lesbian Student Needs 
NETWORK 

When members of the Notre Dame 
community display this symbol, 
know that they are prepared to offer 
awelcoming place of conversation 
about issues related to sexual 
orientation. If you have questions 
about your own sexual orientation, 
or have questions concerning 
the experience of afriend or 
family member, please look for the 
NETWORK symbol. 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 4, 1999 
Tapscott addresses COBA conference on info tec_hnology 
big revolution that is changing America above the age of six business webs, disintermedia­spoke about general trends in By LAURA SEGURA our institutions. We are seeing a know how to use the computer, tion/reintermediation, marketing society in the coming century. He News Writer generation lap, not gap," he said. and 85 percent of kids know in an interactive world, transfor­has worked in a range of foreign 
He named more about mation of education and the rev­relations jobs, including serving 
The future of technology and youth ages 2 to the Internet olution's dissonance. as a congressional staffer, teach­the economy were the focus of 22 the Net "Technology is changing than ~heir par­He discussed the Internet ing at Georgetown University this weekend's College of Generation, ents," said economy as "infrastructure for and authoring ten books.
the paradigm that we 

Business Administration adviso­the first gener­Tapscott. all sectors" and users as Four members of the Advisory
know." 

ry council conference, featuring ation to grow Children are "investors of intellectual capi­Council -Gary Gigot, Richard keynote presentations by author up immersed no longer tal." Heckmann, Clark Keough and and Internet guru Don Tapscott in a world of Don Tapscott watching 24 Tapscott stressed that every Tom Quinn -· gave presenta­and Michael Mazaar, former technology. hours of televi­adult and child must work tions on emerging issues in the
author 

<lirnctor of the New Millennium Tapscntt said sion like their together to forge this new econo­global economy after Mazaar's Project. that paronts go baby-boomer my with values in mind and that talk. 
"Technology is changing the tu their kids to learn about the parents did at their age; rather only then can society deal issues Father Oliver Williams, direc­paradigm that we know," Internet and gave examples of they are interactively stimulated, of privacy, censorship, intellectu­tor of Notre Dame's Center for Tapscott said Thursday. children who are making money learning in a whole new realm. al property, employment, access, Ethics and Religious Values in · 
The key to change lies in the through the Internet, having jobs said Tapscott. equity and democracy in light of Business, concluded the presen­hands of the children, he said. and bypassing their parents in These vast developments, in new technologies. tations with a discussion of dom­"For the first time in history, knowledge of cyberspace. what Tapscott called the "digital Mazaar, who served as editor inant ethical issues in business 
children are an authority in the "Three-fourths of kids in economy," led to discussion of of "The Washington Quarterly," today. 
SOUTH AFRICA 
Govern01ent panel bans anti-rape ad~ 

Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 

South African activists on Sunday slammed a decision to ban an anti-rape television advertisement some men thought was anti-male. The country has one of the world's highest rape rates. 
The Advertising Standards Authority of South Africa quashed the ad after about 30 men complained the ad implied that all South African men are rapists, Sunday newspaper"s reported. 
"Basically, this ad was saying that half of South Africa's men are rapists and the other half condone rape," Peter Vundla., the committee chairman, was quoted as saying in the Sunday· Times. "That is not supported by evidence and is discriminato­ry, even sexist." 
Miranda Friedman, a leader of Women Against Child Abuse, said women would contest the decision and start challenging 
Life 
continued from page 1 
Although some of the planned activities focus on the beginning of life, Linn stresses the fact that Respect Life Week concerns more than just abor­tion. 
"It's about every stage of life and the facl that there are so many ways to support every stage on a daily basis," he said. 
Latino 
continued from page I 
ing ·the development of au intellectual presence on cam­pus that is open to Latino studies. Cardenas said the establishment of a l\Jational Research Center for Latino Communities is planned for the future. 
"I want to have a teacllin!{ program that will enable stu­dents to learn more about Latinos in the United States," Cardenas said. 
ads that were demeaning to females. 
"We sent 250,000 signatures for stiffer rape sentences and they still haven't been imple­mented," Friedman said. The decision to ban the anti-rape ad "shows us, and shows the international community, exact­ly where the balance of power is in this country." 
In the commercial, South African actress Charlize Theron. who has starred in Hollywood movies like Devil's Advocate, says: "Many people ask me what South African men are like." 
She then cites rape statistics. 
About 64,000 women and girls are raped each year in South Africa, and South African women are nearly three times as likely to be raped as women in the United States, police say. About 14,000 of the victims are girls under 18. who are often raped by HIV-infected men who believe they will be cured by having sex with a virgin. 
PROBLEM 
So 

BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER "ABROAD" Fall 2000 & Spring 2001 
Informational Meeting: 
Thursday, October 7th 
4:45 pm, 126 DeBartolo 
Learn about the newest ND Semester "abroad" program: Earth Studies sem~ster at Biosphere 2 in Oracle, Arizona (offered in partnership with Columbia University). Unlike any other program offered to ND students!! 



WANTED. 
McKinsey & Company is a global management rc,ncn1,;no which specializes in helping senior ma.nagers of lm"''"''n''"""' solve complex problems surrounding issues of strategy, oper# and organization. 
We seek candidates who are highly motivated with strong r ' : of a~ademic achievement and leadership to be Business Anal· our consulting teams. Business Analysts are members of tea identify issues, form hypotheses, design and conduct analy synthesize conclusions into recommendations, and present re{' to management. 
If you are interested in challenging work, an environmentJn:'.'l: you will develop professionally. and a substantial amount of, responsibility, please attend our presentation 
Case Interview Workshop Thursday, October 7th 

7:00-9:00p.m. Room 210 Center for Continuing Education 
Refrcsliminls will be ~rovidcd '­
Please visit us at www.rnckinsey.com 
808 
McKinsey&Eompany 
Management Consultants 



Monday, October 4, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Turkish police seize heroin from under garlic sacks 
DOCUBAY AZIT, Turkey 

l11 its largest drug bust in recent months, Turkish µolicn on Sunday soiw<l a ton of hero­in slltshncl trn<lnr sacks of garlic on a truck coming from Iran. tlw Analolia nows agency said. Act.ing on a tip, customs police stopped and s1mrdwd the trnrk as it entnred Turkey. The lwroiu had an eslimatP<l street value of ahout $40 million, Anatolia said. Police arrnstt•d tlw truck's drivnr. Turkey is a major transit point for <lrugs moving from Asia and Middle East to Europe and North America. 
Mother launches campaign to 
curb anti-gay taunting 
ATLANTA 

Tlw motlinr of Mattlrnw Shepard, the gay collcgi\ stuclcnt who was beaten and left for dPad, laundwd a public sPrvic11 annnunr.n­mnnt Sunday aimr.d al curbing anti-gay taunt­ing. It bcigins airing this month on MTV. In the annotmcenwnt. high school boys in a lockr.r room shout anti-gay insults. Thnn .Judy SIJC•1mrd says: "ThP 1rnxt time you use words like th11s1\, think about what they rnally nwan." ;\ photo of IH1r son flashes on the sc'l'cwn with llw dates l')7(1-I 998. Then the words "Murdnrnd" and "llatc" am followed by a shot or Mrs. Slrnpard with her head bowPd. 'Tlt\ilSC\ don't Int there be a next time," she says quinlly. Shepard diml Oct. 12. l 998, days af'lPr he was beatm1 unconscious and tied to a ranch l'ell('.C outsidn Laramie, Wyo. 
Senior Iraqi officials begin military training 
B/\GI IDAD, Iraq 

Iraq's dnputy prime minister has put out his cigar, stepped out of his ol'licc and picked up an assault rifle -answering President Saddam llussein's call for senior off1cials to participalfi in military training. Tariq Aziz along with Vice President Taha Yassin Hamadan -two or the most powerl'ul men in Iraq -wcrn among the ministers and senior ruling party officials who b,\gan military train­ing Saturday in Baghdad, Al-Qadissiya news­papnr said. Iraqi Lnlevision showed video clips or ol1iciab marching with rifles on their shoul­dPrs. Since I')94, Saddam has callod on ordi­nary Iraqis lo volunteer for light military training as preparation to defend the nation against any U.S. threat. Millions of Iraqis have laktm the throe-week courses. Such exercises have includml light weapons training, lessons in giving a proper salute, physical condition­ing and lectures on religion, politics and soci­n!y. Thnrn was no offici,tl comment on the rngimcn for the senior leaders. 
liiiiiWliMMit•I
Dow AMEx: 
786.53 

]ONES -1·70 
0 
Nasd:ur 2736.85 -9.31 
NYSE: 
592.48 
-0.31 

< 

S&P 500: Composite 1282.81 
Volume:

10273.00 
t[U0 896,200,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

~21!2&1!1 iu;:m '.\ ~IY!i! !BI!.I
-~~IDICLL C011PtM'RR PKtL +1.72 +0,'7175 U.53 MlC'JIUCIIOn COft• MSrT -.64, -,!Ull5 ·u.,s lWT&l-coaP Ul'l'C .f.0.14 . O. 6J75 71;,U MCI WORL.DCOM IN WCOM -1.!tl -1,37!0 70. 50 CUCO SY!TDIS csco •O.H t-0, 3175 t!i8. 88 WJ'LLlAJIISI COMKVN wco +:S-!H +1, 0625 28,0fS A.TU COlti' T -4..Q.l -l.7500 U.75 AMl1' ONLI:NK AOL +'.! .67 .~.:8175. 107. 88 AT RQIG CQIIII' ATRK +1.39 +;J, OfiJ5 U,50 M180IJ'H IAMCOR P A.SO . 0.27 . 0,0U.5 l3.50 
orld 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
YUGOSLAVIA 


AFP Photo 

People view the wrecked car of Serbian Renewal Movement leader Vuk Draskovic. Draskovic was forced off the road by a truck near Lazarevac. Borivoje Borovic, Draskovic's close associate, hinted at foul play, but there was no immediate evidence to support this claim. 
Milosevic said to plan violence 
Associated Press 
BELGRADE 
Allies of Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic plan to provoke violence at street protests to create a pretext for a crackdown on opponents, an opposition leader warned Sunday. 
The warning came as more than 15,000 demon­s tra tors turned out in Belgrade on Sunday for the 13th consecutive day 

Report questions Gore 2000 chair 
of protest rallies. Several thousand more gathered in the northern town of Novi Sad, Serbia's second largest city, also demand­ing Milosevic's resigna­tion. 
"There are secret plans ... to stage an incident in which a number of police­men would be hurt, to put the blame on opposition, reshape public opinion and then move to arrest protest leaders, ban the rallies and introduce a form of emergency situa­tion," Zoran Djindj·ic, head of the Democratic Party and a central figure in the anti-Milosevic ral­lies, said at a press con­ference. 
The rally ended with strong anti-Milosevic speeches given by politi­cians and leading intellec­tuals, including members of the influential Academy of Arts and Science. 
"If we don't remove Milosevic, we will forever remain hostages of his culture of death," said 
government fraud, waste and abuse and ethical conflicts involving public officials. 
The center said Coelho's actions may have violated federal laws governing use of federal funds for international expositions. 
Coelho got strong sup­port in a statement issued by Kiki Moore, Gore's campaign press secretary. 
"Tony Coelho docs a great job as general chair of Gore 2000," the state-­ment said. "Day in and day out he makes a tremendous contribution. Under Tony's leadership, psychologist and opposi­tion activist Zarko Trehjesanin. 
On Wednesday and Thursday, riot police heat protesters when they tried to hold a larger protest march. Dozens, including five policemen, were injured then and several opposition activists were detained. 
Djindjic, who has always advocated peaceful protests, claimed he knew of the plan from insiders close to Milosevic. 
the campaign will contin­ue to advance an agenda that will improve the lives of America's working families -fighting to pro­tect Social Security and preserve Medicare, mak­ing health care available to all of our children and calling for revol u lionary change in our public schools." 
Stanley Brand, Coelho's personal lawyer, said his client did nut violate any laws in a job that did not pay him a salary, "lie devoted two years of his life and spent substantial amounts of his own money," Brand said. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Tony Coelho, Vice President Al Gorn's cam­paign chairman, approved questionable contractor payments, hired his niece for a job and made the government liable for a $300,000 personal loan while directing the U.S. pavilion at the 1998 world's fair in Portugal, State Department investi­gators found. 
Their report said Coelho and his staff also misused $210,000 in donated air­line tickets, hired two stepsons of the U.S. ambassador to Portugal and had the government reimburse $26,000 in questionable expenses to a consultant who worked in Coelho's New York City office. Coelho's rental of a chauffeur-driven Mercedes "was especially troublesome" because the cost exceeded a $500 ceil­ing while a fleet of six vans for lhe pavilion were underused. 

The inspector general's report was released by the Center for Public Integrity, a nonprofit organization that tracks 
page6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 4, 1999 
Tax credit provides crucial savings for working poor 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The tax credit for the working poor that House Republicans want to convert from a lump sum to monthly payments pro­vides crucial annual savings for people trying to get ahead, a study finds. 
llalf the 1998 Parned incomP tax credit recipients questioned in the draft Syracuse University study said they planned to save at least a portion of their annual check so thfly r.ould move to a better neighborhood, pay tuition or buy or repair a car. 
"The EITC appears to be our most effective federal program for leading low-income families on a. path toward true economic independence," said Timothy Smecding, director of the Center for Policy Research at Syracuse. "The EITC is what makes these expenditures possible." 
House Republicans want to spread the tax credit payment over a year. saving $8.7 billion in fiscal 2000 and pushing the cost of the credit into the follow­ing budget year. That would help balance the 2000 budget without dipping into Social Security accounts or breaking self-imposed spendiug i;aps. 
President Clinton has pledged to veto appropriations bills that change the payments. GOP pres­idential front-runner George W. Bush has joined Democrats in questioning whether such a chance might harm the working poor. 
Created in 1975, the credit is intended to keep people working and to offset the payroll taxes they contribute for Social "I think it's something that inite ideas of what to do with it, program and the potential payoff Security and Medicare. Last helps families in need to get the research shows. Three-quar­tor working households." year, taxpayers earning between their money on a monthly basis ters said they would use the The study found that many
$10,000 and $31,000 were eligi­instead of one cash drop some­money to pay bills or meet working people use their annual ble. depending on number of time in the spring," said House household expenses, but 49 per­payments to open their first children. The average 1998 Speaker Dennis Hastert. cent of those added they would checking or savings account. claim was $1,459 for 19.4 mil­But the Syracuse study sug­save some money for bigger pur-· Without such accounts. lion taxpayers. gests otherwise. It was based on chases, tuition or moving Smceding said working poor are 
Among the GOP arguments for interviews with 826 Chicago­expenses. "less likely to be able to effec­making 12 payments over the area EJTC recipients who used a "These uses suggest that the tively prioritize" how to use a year is that poor people actually free tax clinic to do their returns EITC also plays a large role in large check. need more help making monthly in 1998. improving social mobility, a find­The study recomm£rnds that ends meet and that the single About XO perCffr1t of that group ing we did nut expect," the government consider using 
payment is more difficult for expected a refund when they Smeeding said. "There is a large electronic transfers of the pay­people to manage. came into the clinic and had def-and growing recognition ofthA ments to banks. 
ATTENTION ALUMNI OF 
The National Young Leaders Conference, Washington, DC -or-The National Youth Leadership Forums on Law, lVIedicine or Defense 
If you are a first or second year student, there is a prestigious on­campus leadership opportunity we have been asked to discuss ,vith you. 
Please call Toll Free at 1-877-282-4952 no later than October 15, 1999 and ask to speak with one of the program co-founders: Barbara or Richard 
You, are, uwiredto ar/:elt.,tl tlte, 
1999 Notr~ Dau,,e, u,uw,l way Ki.ck-Off 
wedluurJAy, oa-ober 6 Iru/v Courtyard a±~Morris I~ 7:00 4'.Hf.4 12:1 S ,,,,.Uf/4 4:30,,,,.Hu 
Parking will be available in either the Bookstore lot or the Visitor's lot south of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Food; Door Prl/ZM Af't£l Ft,llt; 
Be sure to watch for results on campus-wide participation totals and weekly drawing winners on the official Notre Dame United Way web site at www.nd.edu/-uway. 
Aiuwtjfar 10~% Camfl« P~ff/ 


Monday, October 4, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Many East Ti01orese still fearful of Dlilitia 
,,.----------------­
-----------~ 
-~Have you heard? The Career Resource Center located in Room 114 -Flanner Hall, has evening hours Monday thru Wednesday from 5:00 -8:00 p~m. 



Yeah, I'm making my way to the Career Center after classes. You know, they have staff available to view your resume and answer quick questions. There's even a computer lab to log on to Go IRISH. And don't forget the great books and resource materials. Looks like the Career Center's the place to be. 
Associated Press 
mu 

Militiamen nabbed Manuel Pmto·s three brothers as soon as they ventured back into East Timor's capital, after they were lulled into false sense uf security by a radio report that the international peace force had arrived. 
Now, two weeks into the peace mission. the skinny 25-year-old scouts Dili for his mother, father and five sisters still hiding in the mountains. 
Living on mangoes and cassa­va, they are going hungry, but playing it safe. 
"They're still afraid. There's just a few people here," Pinto says. gesturing at the city around him. Families line up for handouts of rice from Australian soldiers at a sports stadium, but other parts of the city remain deserted. 
Thousands of people have returned to Dili since the peace­
keepers arrived and established 
some order to the chaos of the destroyed capital. But thousands more are still waiting, refusing to believe the militia are truly gone. 
The majority of East Timor's 850,000 people are still dis­placed, lost for now to their fam­ilies. 
Indonesian soldiers and their militia allies burned and chased hundreds of thousands out of their homes into the hills; an estimated 230,000 are believed held by militias in Indonesian WestTimor. 
Pinto, an amiable, voluble stu­
1 
dent in animal husbandry has family scattered in all directions. 
Seven are with him in the mountains, so frightened that even the arrival of 6,000 soldiers can't reassure them. The three brothers taken to WPst Timor are rumored to be dead. 
"Last night I dreamed that jt's OK, that they're alive," he said. ''And my heart's not trembling. So I hope everything's OK." 
Pinto's own flight started sev­eral days before East Timor voted for independence from Indonesia,triggering a terror campaign by pro-Indonesian forces across the half-island ter­ritory. 
Contacts in the East Timor resistance and with the United Nations confirmed to him wha many East Timorese already knew -that bloodshed would follow the Aug. 30 vote. 
"I tell all my friends, we have to go," he says; "Some people, they trust me and run away. But other people, they don't trust me, and they get taken." 
Pinto escaped to the hills days before the vote. He came down only to cast his ballot and then fled back, this time taking care to take some sacks of rice with him. 
His family joined him in the 
mountains at Darlav, a three­hour journey by car and then by foot. 
They were among hundreds of refugees hiding there, foraging for fruit and roots when the food ran out. 
l 
j• 

1 1 
1 
I 
His three brothers came down I the same day the peacekeepers arrived, as soon as they heard the news on the radio. 

f)RJclWATfRHOUs@PERS I 
Join us. Together we can change the world. sM 
0 1999 PricewaterhouseCoopet5 HP. l'ricewaterhouseCaq,ers re/en; to the U.S. t1rm of PriceM9lerhouseCoope,s LLP and other members of rhe wrlrfm.. iJe Pricewatrrhoujf>C<-,opet'5 otg.1nu,1tion. VVe a,e proud ta be an Aff11m,1tiYe At tioo ,md Equal Opportunity Empla,m 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 4, 1999 
ISRAEL 
Technicalities delay peace process 
their position, safe passage is Associated Press meaningless." Public Security Minister JERUSALEM Shlomo Ben-Ami insisted that 
In the first major setback in the differences were "techni­the revived peace process, cal," and said he was certain Israelis said Sunday that only the Palestinians would come technical issues delay the to understand why Israel opening of a land link for needs to maintain the power Palestinians of arrest. between the "Israel's
"We consider these points 

West Bank sovereignty and the Gaza degrading and should be 
Strip. humiliating toward the under no 
Palestinians discussion
Palestinian people and the

insisted issuos and our of principle Palestinian Authority" right to are at stake. guarantee The "safe the security
Jamil Tarifi 

passage, of the pas­
Palestinian negotiator

which had sage is 
been sched­uled to open Sunday, is to pro­vide the first unfettered route for Palestinians between the two arl'as, and is kev to smoothing peace talks revived last month by !'rime Minister Ehud Barak·and Palrstinian leader Vasser Arafat. 
Palestinians say the eleventh-hour delay is due to Israel's insistence that it issue the magnetic card passes and maintain power of arrest along the route running from the northern Gaza Strip to the southern West Bank. 
"We consider these points degrading and humiliating towards the Palestinian people and the Palestinian Authority," negotiator Jamil Tarifi said Sunday. "If Israel maintains 
unquestion­able," he·told.The Associated Press. "I trust that we will find a way to iron out our differ­ences." 
He said the only differences remaining are over the passes, telling Israel radio only that the differences were "techni­cal" and uninteresting. 
Israeli newspapers have reported that Israel wants to control distribution of the magnetic cards in order to prevent forgeries by militants planning attacks. 
A security adviser to Barak, Danny Yatom, predicted the opening would take place within days. 
Concerns by Israeli security officials that Palestinian mili­tants might leave the road and carry out attacks against Israelis have delayed the arrangement for four years. 

Elsewhere. Israeli peace activists demonstrated against a decision to confiscate 5,750 acres of land near the West Bank village of Idna. Palestinians claim the land for agricultural use; the hard-line government defeated by Barak in May designated the land for Jewish settlement expansion. The activists urged Barak to reverse that decision. 
In Jerusalem's Old City on Sunday,-Prime Minister Ehud Barak swore the city would remain united under Israeli sovereignty and accessible to all peoples. Speaking at a cer­emony to celebrate archaeo­logical finds, Barak quoted the Bible as upholding the Jewish claim lo sovereignty over Jerusalem. 
Archaeological discoveries related to tbe Second Temple "forever bind us to our begin­nings as a free nation in our homeland and eternal capi­tal." 
On Saturday night, Palestinian police arrested 15 members of the militant Islamic Jihad group after three of its members escaped from prison, sources close to the group said Sunday. 
Islamic Jihad opposes peace with Israel and has claimed responsibility for deadly sui­cide bomb attacks. 
The Palestinian Authority 
TURKEY 
Ankara, Athens improve relations 
Associated Press 
DERINCE 

Between hugs from Turkish children, Greece's foreign minister Sunday visited a sym­bol of improving ties between Turkey and Greece, village of prefabricated homes donated by his country for earthquake victims. 
Minister George Papandreou is the first top Greek official to visit Turkey since relations thawed after both nations suf­fered killer quakes a few weeks apart and rushed to one another's aid. 
During his visit to this small northwestern town, some six miles from the epicenter of the Aug. 17 quake, he spoke of the quakes opening "the door to a new perspective." However, he said later during a speech in Istanbul that Greece expects Turkey to take steps to build confidence among the two countries, specifically regarding the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. 
Cyprus has been divided into Turkish and Greek sectors . since a 1974 Turkish invasion that followed a short-lived coup by supporters of union with Greece. Turkey maintains some 35,000 troops there. 
Papandreou said Turkey's withdrawal of troops from Cyprus would help build trust, as would a decrease in its defense spending. 
He also reiterated that Greece supports Turkey's. membership into the European Union. The EU 
reviews  its  enlargement  
process  during  a  summit  
meeting  in  December.  

Turkey's membership was snubbed by the EU two years ago because of territorial con­flicts between the two nations and its poor human rights record. 

Papandreou also inspected a Greek Orthodox church and a school in Istanbul that were damaged in the 7.4-magnitude earthquake that struck north­western Turkey on Aug. 17, killing some 16,000 people. A smaller quake that hit Athens on Sept. 7 left 143 dead. 
Later, he was welcomed in Derince by Greek and Turkish flags and a sign saying 'wel­come.' He told people there that by displaying friendship and cooperation during the quake aftermath, Turks and Greeks said that they wanted to live in peace. 
"The door to a new perspec­tive and hope has been opened and we have to keep this door open forever," he said. 
"We first saw them as ene­mies, but now we realize that we are friends," said Muzafer Aran, 
THAILAND 

Myanmar closes border after rebels released 
Associated Press 

RANGKOK 
Myanmar closed its border with Thailand and reinforced its border forces after five armed rebels, who had held diplomats and others hostage at the 
Myanmar  Embassy,  wne  
released,  newspapers  said  
Sunday.  

Thailand also put its border patrol on alert as a precaution­ary measure after the young Myanmar militants were picked up by helicopters and set free within one mile of the frontier Saturday, the Bangkok Post said. 
The group, which held 38 Myanmar and foreign hostages for 26 hours, were believed to have sought sanctuary with the Karen National Union, a border­based rebel group in Myanmar. 
"l will accept them in even though they are not our group's members because they have the same passion that we do to oppose the Burmese junta gov­ernment," KNU leader Bo Mya told reporters at his stronghold opposite Thailand's Tak Province. 
In a statement that could lead to a rift between Thailand and Myanmar, also known as Burma, Thai Interior Minister Sanan Kachornprasart said his country did not consider the hostage-takers terrorists. 
"They are student activists struggling for democracy. We 
have done what we have promised them," said Sanan, who was one of the govern­ment's negotiators with the rebels. 
Despite periodic border prob­lems, the two countries have established good relations and Thailand. along with other Southeast Asian nations, has downplayed the reports of gross human rights abuses by Myanmar's military rcgimA. 
"Although the incident has been over. it is also very impor­tant to make these criminals rnalize that no matter under what pretext or disguise it might have been staged, the peace lov­ing people of the world commu­nity will not tolerate the criminal and the terrorist activities they have committed," said an official Myanmar news release. 
Sanan said Thai officials had been in tourh with the Myanmar government during the crisis and were told that they could take any action they saw fit. The Myanmar government had said the takeover was an internal Thai matter. 
The raiders eventually released all 38 hostages. Another 51 Myanmar citizens were also allowed to walk out. 
According to a breakdown in The Nation newspaper, the hostages included 19 Myanmar citizens, five Thais, two Frenchmen, two Canadians and people from Australia, China, India, and the United States. 
1999-2000 Season 
Notre Dame Film,Television, and Theatre Presents 

Hedda Gabler 
by 

flenrik Ibsen 

Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, October 6  7:30 p.m.  
Thursday, October 7  7:30 p.m.  
Friday, October 8  7:30 p.m.  
Saturday, October 9  7:30 p.m.  
Sunday October I 0  2:30 p.m.  

Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 

Tickets are available a! Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. L:as=~d=i~a-==call 631-8128 

Monday, October 4, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

in case tba.t,;rock n roll thing faJ.l.a tbru 


there's always Starcom. NORTH AMER1cA's LEADING MEDIA sERv1cEs coMPANY 1Nv1ns You ro COME SEE WHAT AN EXCITING CAREER IN MEDIA AND ADVERTISING IS All ABOUT. COME REACH FOR THE STA.RS AT STARCOM'S RECRUITING PRESENTATION. October 4, Rm100 Center for Continuing Education 6:30-8:3opm 
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT LEO BURNETT'S MEDIA DIVISION AT WWW.STARCOMWORLDWIDE.COM 


.! U II 0 
Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam 
Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 
journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating 
classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and wil1 be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

Russell B. Pulliam 
Pulliam Fellowships Director 
Indianapolis Newspapers 

Wi.:h ,its.:: \\\\\\,,tilrn.v;,,i.:nm/pJI P.O. Box 145 E-m:1il: pull1.11n(a, .1rnl!1\, cum 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
Do you l 

Clinton wants nuclear test-ban ratification 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

As it prnsses for Senate ratifica­tion of a nuclear test ban trf\aty. the Clinton administration must overcome 
Republican anxiety over the CIA's inability to verify low­level under­ground nuclear explosions in 


other coun-Clinton tries. 
The administration contends the shortcomings in the CIA's monitoring capabilities give rea­
1 son to ratify the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. Hepublicans, who control the Senatf:, disagree. They also con­tend the treaty, signed by 154 countries, is llawed in other ways and would amount to unilateral disarmament by the United States. Twice last month, U.S. intelli­gence saw signs of activity in Russia that could have indicated 
secret testing. The CIA was unable to say with certainty exactly what was happening. 
"We don't know that there was any testing going on," White House Chief of Staff .John Podesta said Sunday on CNN's "Late Edition." lie added: "This is really an argument for the treaty." 
Arter the fall of' the Soviet Union, President Bush signed a limited testing moratorium to take effect October 1. 1992. for nine months. President Clinton continued the moratorium -the country's last test was in Septemb1:r 1992 -then signed the comprehensive global treaty in 1996. 
The treaty, a plank in th«) 1992 Democratic Party platform, went to the Senate for ratilication in 1997. It languished in tho Senate uni.ii last week, when Mississippi Republican Majority Leader Trent Lott unexpectedly scheduled a full Senate vote for October 12. 
Struggling for the 6 7 votes nec­essary for ratification, the White House began a campaign this weekend to boost the treaty, com­plaining of a sneak attack by Lott in giving only 10 days to make a case. 


W~-·W•"-ir 
TN~ G-:R-~l>E· 
ND AREA STORES: 
•1706 
South Bend Ave (Walking Distance!)243-7738 •SR 23 & lronwood/277-7744 •Indian Ridge Plaza/271-1772 

•52577 
US 31 N (North Village MaU)277-1024 


Would you like to wr oi :The Call I ~5323. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page] 0 BSERVER October 4, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Nom Dame, IN 4655G 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Perelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huclat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Tirnorhy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERiGENERAL INFO.............63 [..7471 FAX ....................................................... ..631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/ 8840 
obsef\'cr@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIToRIAssT. ME.. ................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.. ...............................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer. viewpciint. l@ncledu SPORTS ............................................... 631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu ScENE.. ............................................... 631•4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoM!NISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minuce forecasrs 
weekly student reviews 

advcnise for policies 
online ~rures for spe­

and races ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives co search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
co meet the edimrs and 

August 1999 
sraff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students ofthe University of None Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Questions "?;arding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelli! Krupa. 

Go ahead ash'k a silly question 
Anybody in our neighborhood who thought he was tough hadn't yet played Ernest in football. Though younger than most of us by a couple years, he 
was strong and quick enough to shake any of us. Even if he we did get hands on him, though, nobody could really tackle his burly form alone -except 

maybe Leo or Tookie.  Mel Tardy  
Our arena for  
"Ernest-ball" was a  
vacant lot next to  Life at ND  
his house. "Vacant"  
was just a manner  
of speaking. It was  

actually full of weeds, bricks and bro­ken bottles. I suppose it was more vacant than some of the other lots. The main thing is, it suited Ernest just fine. 
Juke, juke, whump, FWAP! Nothing is as disorienting as being flipped through the air. 
"0www!" "You wimp! Baby!" I ignored them, trying to shake off the 
fall, but it's hard when you land back first on a stone. Besides, my pride hurt more than my back. Sure, I was on the ground, but I was the one trying to make the tackle! Chalk up another touchdown for Ernest. Guys, why couldn't we play touch instead? Nope. Had to be tackle. "Ernest-ball!" 
Tackle football it was. Being a little guy, it was hard enough for me to avoid tacklers (and, l suppose, running backs), but rocks and broken bottles too? Still, if you wanted to play football, that "vacant" lot was where you had to play. If you found yourself going down, you just had to decide, "Should I land on a rock or broken glass?" 
Picking teams was easy. First, you would pick Ernest. After that, you would always pick the ashy guys, like Tookic. Why? Ashy guys just always seemed tougher. In fact, if you ever saw a whole team of ashy guys, you could plan on losing. That's like fighting with an ugly guy. He's already ugly ... what's he got to lose? 

My grandmother was always on "ash alert" with my brother, sister and me. We had to wear lotion, no matter what, and it was always cocoa butter. If we came over for a visit with dry elbows and knees, WHAM -out came the cocoa butter. In fact, she had this uncanny way of replenishing our home supply. 
No sooner would we squeeze the last drop of lotion onto an elbow at home when Mom would say, "We got another package of cocoa butter from 'Maw' today!" How she could be so accurate with her timing, I'll never know. 
Even my first year at Notre Dame, many years after "Ernest-ball," my grandmother was on "ash alert." Sure enough, every couple of months I'd get that shipment of cocoa butter from hundreds of miles away. That was good too, because my first PE rotation was swimming. Talk about your ashy! If I ever forgot to bring that cocoa butter to PE -especially in the winter, I'd almost prefer skipping class to walking around ashy blue. 
Now, my colleagues didn't under­stand ashy. They just jumped in the shower, blow-dried their hair (a topic for another day), got dressed and were good to go. Me? I had to get something on the elbows first. They didn't under­stand the ritual. Why couldn't I do that later? What the heck was "ashy," any­way? 
It never dawned on me that some people didn't know ashy! I often thought, what a silly question. I'd look around to share the laugh with a fellow African American, but OOPS! Once again, I was the only one around. 
Silly questions. How many times have we heard the phrase: "The only silly questions are the ones not asked!" Still, sometimes, that's more easily said than done. 
Many of us in the racial or cultural minority are asked a lot of "silly ques­tions," perhaps with no ill-intention from the curious questioner: "Ilow do you comb hair likR yours?" "What sport do you play?" "You mean you actually get a suntan?!" After dozens of such questions, oven the most patient of us can get burned out. In fact, I know an African-American alumnus who swears that he, as a frustrated student, pre­sented a "bill" to then-president Father Hesburgh for all the man-hours he put in "teaching" his classmates about Black folk! 
On the other hand, who doesn't arrive to this Notre Dame community without some "silly questions" about unfamiliar others? After all, although on the verge of a new millennium, we still live in an essentially segregated country, with homogeneous school sys­tems, neighborhoods, places of worship and the like. If this community can't ask the questions now, then when? If we don't answer, then who will? 
How we deal with the "silly ques­tions" can shape our definition of the "Notre Dame community." The natural course of dorm life is not enough. Discussions in neutral settings, with trained moderators, are also necessary to facilitate forthright discussion. In such settings, where the goals and objectives are obvious, people are less likely to get defensive and real progress can be made. 
Some such programs ARE available to us. They are no good if no one uses them. It is unlikely that any such pro­gram will be perfect. In our country, however, it IS likely that each could be called a good beginning. By the way, the next time you go by one of those "vacant" lots with broken bricks and bottles strewn about, don't ignore it. Clean it up! 
After all, somebody might want to play a little "Ernest-ball" there with some other little, ashy kids who can't tackle. 
Mel Tardy, '86, '90, is an academic advisor for the First Year ofStudies. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DLLBERT SCOTT ADAMS 

C 

.; TEACH

HE'S
WALLY, TECHN0L0G't' 
ALREADY
IS A 't'OUNG 
DOING 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Complacency is afar more dangerous attitude titan outrage." 
Naomi Littlebear 

VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 

Monday, October 4, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Do we need to eat chicken? 
I was dismayed to see columnist Mike Marchand's callous display of unconcern for the suffering of ani­mals in last Monday's Observer. Inspired by Charles Hicri's column on Sept. 24, Marchand attacks the "pure lunacy" of the "insane philosophy" of Princeton binet.hidst Peb1r Singer, tho father of the modern animal rights movemcmt. Among Singer's "lunacif•s" is purpurL<'d Lo be !Im claim that "apes, bears, cats, possibly chickens, chimps, dogs, dol­phins, pigs, seals and whales are all on a level with humans because they arc rational anrl sentient beings" while "newborn and unborn babies are not." Even worso. Singer's madness has apparently sprnad to his followers, as evidenced by People for the Ethical Trnatmcnt 
birds lose their feathers and cut their skin and feet by rubbing against the sides of their wire cages. Their close confinement prevents them from carry­ing out instinctual nesting behavior and frustrates their natural urge to simply stretch their wings. 
What motivates Marchand's callousness? Perhaps he is worried that granting that the suffering of ani­mals is morally significant would force him to adopt Singer's "lunatic" view that non-human animals are 
,on a par with humans merely because thev are sen­tient and can feel pain. What does he think rides on this conclusion? So Marchand is smarter than his dog. So what'? What does intelligence have to do with suffering anyway? As Jeremy Bentham sug­
gested, "The question is 
of' Animals (PETAi not. 'Can thev reason?' member Ingrid nor 'Can they talk? But, Nnwkirk's apparent Can Lhev suffer?'" attompt to implicate While more intelligent Colonel Sandors in a beings may be capable gnnocidc of' a scaln of more varied and sub­unknown even in the tle forms of suffering 1lolocaust: "Six million (e.g. the pain of antici-· people died in concen­pation, the sense of tration camps, but (1 melancholy, existential billion broiler chickens dread), there is no good will die this year in reason to suppose that slaughtorhouses." dogs (and chickens) do 
It. is not. my intention not suffer. Marchand lwrn to dnfond being much smarter Singor's views against than his dog is compati­Marchand's rnisrepni­ble with his having a sental.ions and nxag­moral obligation not to g1iratio11s. Ev,m morn kick it in the ribs when­troubling than his ever he feels like it. uninformed treatment Singer's point is not of Singer is his snide that non-human ani­response to Nowkirk, mals are on a par with a response that would humans in all respects, lw nwrely ridiculous hut that that they share wern it not so sinister with humans the capac­in its implkations; ity for suffering -a "Now. let me be logi­suffering which must be 
cal. WE'HE TALKING 
ABOUT CHICKENS! Even if there are 6 billion chick­
ens, they're still chickens! When the chickens com­
plain, f'il listen. It could be entirely possible that the 
cure fur AIDS or cancer died io a gas chamber at 
Auschwitz or one of the other holocaust hells. The 
most 6 billion chickens could ever account for is 
about 60 billion chicken McNt1ggets. Anyone who 
could possibly equate the two has a severe case of 
mixed-up priorities. Or worse." 
Recourse to CAPITAL LETTERS notwithstanding, the "logic" of Marchand's response is hardly evident. To reach the condusion that the death of 6 billion chickens is ofno moral consequence, Marchand nends more than his exasperated (and tautological) assurance lhat chickens are, after all, chickens. Yet the implicit sense of his "argument" is clear: Chickens are mere chickens, beings entirely unwor­thy of our moral consideration. In our moral reckon­ings, their deaths need not be taken into account. Nor, on Marchand's view, need their suffering: PETA plans to picket McDonald's on the grounds that in the course of' their transport to slaughterhouses and eventual McNuggetization "every year, millions [of chir.knnsl suffer broken bones and millions more die from the lrnat or cold." "Heaven forbid," responds Marchand sarcastically, "(that] chickens should suf­for or die before they're killed [sic] and become chir.ken salad." 
Marchand's ludicrous suggestion that he would be willing to listen to the chickens' complaints were any forthr.oming is even more disturbing. in part because of its unintended r.onsequences. Granted, chickens do not verbally protest their confinement in cages or plead for their lives in the slaughtnrhouse. Nor, how­evnr, do fetuses ask abortionists to leave them undis­turbed in the womb. Nor do brain-dead humans lobby for tlrn right to be sustained on life support. Nor do the severely retarded complain when beaten. It' Marchand is only willing to extenrl moral consider­ation to those who can protest the suffering inflicted u~on them, he is in danger of ignoring the suffering of tho very classes of human beings that he is con­cerned to protect from Singer's "lunacy." 
The fact that chickens have nothing to say to Marchand or anyone else about the suffering inflict­ed upon them does not prevent them from making their sulforing known in other ways. As Singer points out in "Animal Liberation," factory farmed chicknns in America arc commonly r.onlined four to a cage, leaving each bird a "living" space of 6-by-8­inches or less. Chickens confined under such condi­tions display various symptoms of' their suffering, including noisiness, aggressive pecking and canni­balism. The latter symptoms tend to increase as the taken into account in 
our reflections on how we ought or ought not act. 
Admittedly, Singer's utilitarian view has untoward consequences, consequences arising from his overly scientistic understanding of human beings and over­ly simplistic understanding of ethics. But Marchand need not become a utilitarian to justify taking the suffering of animals more seriously. As an enthusi­astic exponent of Charles Rice· s views, Marchand need look no further than Rice's own Catholic moral­ity for reasons to object on moral grounds to at least some of the suffering that animals experience at the hands of humans. According to Hice, on Catholic teaching humans have "a serious duty to God, but not to the animals, to make a right use of animals without being cruel or inflicting needless pain." That is, even on Catholic moral principles, principles that preserve a rigid distinction between humans (created in God's image) and the mere animals over which humans have been granted dominion, there are moral restrictions placed on the causing of need­less suffering to animals. Thus, Marchand need not lapse into Singerian "lunacy" to justify relinquishing his cruel stance. The Catholic view with which he expresses sympathy will allow him to maintain his sense that humans are "special," that the deaths of 6 billion chickens is not comparable in moral signifi­cance to the deaths of 6 million humans. But it will also give him reason for taking seriously the deaths of 6 billion chickens, especially when so many of those deaths involve the infliction of needless pain. 
Marchanrl would do well to reflect on the meaning of "needless pain." As PETA protesters rightly insist, chickens COULD be transported to the slaughter­house in such a way that they do not end up with broken wings or frozen to death. That is, they do not NEED to he transp_orted as they presently are. Presumably, they could also be "farmed" in a more humane fashion, confined in larger cages or set free in an open range. But perhaps it will he suggested that the adoption of such measures is unfeasible given the economic demands placed on factory farmers in a highly competitive industry (a claim which is surely true as a description of present day America}. 
If chickens bound for our dinner plates cannot presently be raised and slaughtered in a manner that does not cause them to suffer, then we ought to ask ourselves whether we really "need" to eat chick­en in the first place. 
Philip]. Bartok 
Graduate Student, Department of Philosophy September 28, 1999 
Providence has been good to us 
"Once more, Providence has been good to us, and we blessed God from the depths." This was one of the lines· in the letter Fr. Edward Sorin sent to the Very Reverend Basil Moreau, on Dec. 5, 1842. Father Sorin and b.is _small band of missionary priests and brothers (no whiners among them) endured a voy­age across the Atlantic in steerage, fol­lowed by an incredible trek through the wilds of the New World, to eventually set foot on the south side of St. Mary's Lake. 
With no money on hand and little prospects to obtain any, Sorin surveyed the snow-covered lake and figured he had a can't-miss spot for a great University! He wrote Moreau (the Founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross) that "The College cannot fail to succeed" ... Before long, it will develop on a large scale. It will be one of the most powerful means for good in this country." 
While battling robbers, cholera, a sus­picious and sometimes hostile neighbor­ing community {South Bend was 20 min­utes away, according to Sorin), and an occasional Potowatomi tribesman, Sorin was able to erect a s-:nall building next to the Log Chapel which was already on site. He called these two buildings a university! Less than two years later, the state of Indiana believed him, and chartered the enterprise. "You cannot help see that this new branch of your family is destined to grow under the protection of our Lady of the Lake and of St. Joseph. This is my deep conviction. Time will tell ifl am wrong." ... Well, Ed, you were not wrong. 
Although I continue to be amazed at the way the University has grown during my :H-year association with the place, Father Sorin would not likely be surprised. This is a man who stood next to the ashes of the Main Building, which had just burned to the ground, for !he SECOND time, and looking to the Heavens, stated that the reason it burned was that he hadn't built it BIG ENOUGH! Can anyone fathom what kind of faith Father Sorin possessed, not to give up, in this time of extreme disappointment. 
The next time you're staring up at the Basilica and tho Dome, which Sorin built more than 120 years ago, and you marvel at how immense and magnificent these buildings are, 100 days from Y2K, consider that Sorin built them when Notre Dame had just a few hundred students on campus -and half of them were in prep and elementary school programs. Some of them paid their tuition in chickens or grain. 
What kind of a man possesses the vision Sorin had? A man who comes along every hundred years or so. TWO more of these visionaries found their way to South Bend, less than 100 years after Sorin. Theodore M. Hesburgh and Edmund P. Joyce (Ted and Ned} were responsible for the next major epoch at Notre Dame. 
Arriving at Notre Da,me in the early 1930's, these Sorin­esque gentlemen took Notre Dame to new heights. Before their 35-year presidency (Father Hesburgh say they were a team, not a #1 and #2), Notre Dame's growth had been on an incre­mental scale, with an occasional spurt, here and there. From 1952 on, Notre Dame has been on a much faster track. While our student body has remained comparatively small, the num­ber and breadth of course offerings, caliber of students and faculty, and prestige of Notre Dame has grown beyond the wildest dreams of most persons, but NOT beyond what Ed, Ted and Ned visualized. 
We no longer have Father Sorin in our midst (although l bet Ted and Ned have felt his presence). If you'd like to get a fla­vor of the man, read his letter to Father Moreau, which is on a bronze monument a few paces from the door to the Log Chapel. Visit the room in the Basilica where some ofSorin's religious artifacts are on display, or stop by the holy Cross's Community Cemetery. Right under the crucifix, on the west side, is a simple marker for Father Sorin; a marker no more distinctive than those of hundreds of long-forgotten persons from the Holy Cross Order who built Notre Dame. 
We no longer have Father Sorin around, but we're fortunate that Ted and Ned are still with us. Father llesburgh continues to amaze all who know him. Despite his many accomplish­ments, he remains a warm and kind man. (When campus security is asked to provide a driver for Father Hcsburgh, offi­cers fight for the privilege.) Father Joyce, one of our first stu­dents from South Carolina, was one of the top tennis players on campus as a student. Despite having passed four score years, he still stands as straight as the Library where he and Father Ted maintain their campus offices. (How much would it cost to erect the Hesburgh Library and .Joyce Center today? Ted and Ned raised the cash and pushed forward with the development at the perfect moment.} 
It's too late to send Father Sorin a thank you note, hut any­one reading this column who finds something at Notre Dame to appreciate might want to send a note of thanks to Ted and Ned. 
Cappy Gagnon, '66, believes Notre Dame is in good hands with another Ed guiding us. 
The views expressed in this column are those o(the author and not neccessarily those ofThe Observer. · 




O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Monday, October 4, 1999 
ABC gets hit with 'Once and Again' 
By FRAZIER MOORE 
Associarcd Pres, Writer 
NEWYOHK 

Last wrn~k's "Once and Again" started with Lily, tho 40-year-old single mother played by Sela Ward, exploding with an anxious confession: "I have NO idea what rm doing." 
Well. what she's doing is rwlhing less lhan picking uµ the pieces of her lifo after the breakup of her marriagP.. She's rebuilding her identity and coping with guilt for what divorce has done to her two daughters. Diciest of all, she's risking romance with Rick, a similarly dam­aged single father of two. 
So that's what Lily is doing on "Once and Again," which airs Tuesdays at 10 p.m. EDT on ABC, then repeats Fridays on cable's Lifetime at 11 p.m. EDT. Ancl she must be doing something righl. A r,ritical favorite long before its debut, the seriPs gave ABC the highest rating among adults 18-to-49 of any network's premiering drama in four yt>ars. 
What that audience encountered was a refreshingly adult drama with the wry humor and bittersweet hon­esty befitting its creators, Edward Zwick and Marshall Hcrskovitz, until now best known for the age-defining "thirtysomething." 
Viewers also found a splendid cast, headed up by Billy Campbell as Rick and Ward in quite a change from her flamboyant role on the sometimes racy, mused. "That's the funny thing, because I never chose This is how I feel! Everything in my life is about safety!' sometimes wacky "Sisters." the safe thing. I would try, and somehow it would And I kept reading and the writing was so good, I 
But could the sleekly gorgeous Sela )'Vard make Lily's always end up being unsafe." couldn't get it out of my head. plight convincing'! The matter was settled in the pre­Reminded of that poignant speech, Ward laughs. "This is what's so interesting. about Lily: You get to miere episode's first moments: "That," she declares, "was the first paragraph in the explore her insecurities and neuroses, and then tran­
"All I ever wanted, I think, was to be safe," Lily script and the thing that hooked me. I went, 'Ohmigod! scend that. With this role, you have somewhere to go." 
In important ways, "Once and Again" is a very grown-up drama. It dares to tilt toward being about adults who have kids, not about kids who have parents. The payoff: Everything becomes more complex. And richer. 
This week, just watch Lily and Hick, laden with responsibilities, try to find a night they're both free for a date. 
And as they separately anticipate sex with each other, hear Lily fret to her sister, ''I've got two kids! How can I take my clothes off?" While, elsewhere, Rick's business partner is pressing him portentously, "What's her bodv like? Two kids!" 
Which is not io say that, besides its stretch marks and bulging Filofaxes, "Once and Again" doesn't also deal with universal issues: love, family, trying to learn from one other. 
The series is deft in tracking p·arallel issues as they unfold" for different generations. This week we sec Lily and Rick in the car outside a restaurant, making out like teen-agers -while, back at Hick's house, his teen­age son Eli is in bed with a girl. Clearly, this isn't just a show about divorce. 
''I've never been divorced," says Ward. Curled up on the sofa in a Manhattan hotel's bar, she bathes a sore throat with hot tea as she reflects on her series' poten­tially broad appeal. 
"I didn't get married till I was 35. But before that, I would have serial monogamy of three, four years at a time. I feel like I've been divorced three times over. 
"You don't have to look far for divorcn and all the penple it affects," she notes. "And kids can totally relate to being in a family of divorce, with their parents dating." 
Even with her brown eyes a bit watery and her apologies for being a little spaced, the fluish Ward still glows. Those eyebrows arch like boomerangs. Her smile is luminescent. 
A native of Meridian, Miss., she first found success modeling, then moved into acting with roles in such features as "Nothing in Common," "The Fugitive" and "54."' . 
For live seasons she played Teddy, struggling artist and recovering alcoholic, on NBC's "Sisters," for which she wou the 1994 Emmy for Best Actress in a Drama. 
And now she wants the world to know: There's life after 40. 
'Tm sort of loaded for bear," says the 4:~-year-old Ward, tapping a Southernism, "because I've been exec­producing this documentary for Lifetime on beauty and ageism. 
"We're living in this youth-obsessed culture where the message we get -especially from the entertain­ment industry and advertising -is that our life is over at 40. And l rnsent it." 
With her documentary, which Ufotime will air next spring, 'Tm doing my little part to give a woman, or a man, a chance to think, 'You know what, I can make a different choice.'" 
Of course, choices are what Lily faces in excess. It isn't safe. But it's fascinating. 



NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, October 4, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame vs. Oklahoma 

lly BILL HART A.ssuci;irc Spurts Edimr 
.larious Jackson is 110 stranger to 1·01111•-from-bdiind situations. 
In tlw two ynan; llw fifth-year Irish quartPrback has start"d for tlw Irish, coming back l'rom scc­
ond-ha Il' ddicits has almost SP<'lllt'd to bn tbl' rul11, rather than tlw (1xception. But this year, ltw patPnterl conwbacks that Jackson romposed foll just short of victory. It look<Hl lo be the sanrn case this WPt1kPnd, when I.hr• Oklahoma Soonnrs look a :m-14 lead with IO minut!1s, 1 sPrnnd remaining in the third quartnr. 
Hut this time, Jit('.kson would no! Im dPniPd a win. 
"I said W(i'vn got to gnt this vic­tory," hn said allPr t!Hi game. "l said if' I havn to put an IV in my arm af'tcr the game. we're going to gnt this victory." 
This tinw, Jackson pullnd nut possibly Llw bes!. conwback of llw d1icade. lna,ling a sncond­half' clrnrgn to ddi'at tho No. 25 So111wrs ]4-30. 
"This was a hug,\ win 1hr us," linad coach Bob Davie said. "lfocause of Urn way we wo11. We played a good football team and we fought through a situation we have bnen in for three previous weeks and we won." 
Following the Sooners' only scorn of the second half. the Irish started their comeback on their own 19-yard line. Seven plays later, Jackson threw a rollout pass to tight end Jabari Holloway to close the gap to nine. 
The Notrn Dame defense gave Jackson another chance moments later, when senior cor­nerback Lnc Lafayette intercept­ed a pass by Oklahoma quarter­back .Josh lleupel at the Irish 44 yard line. 
"That was an amazing play," Davin said. "I am not sure be (Wfln saw the ball coming. rt lo()ked like he had vekro ()11 his hip. That's one we can thank Iathletic department chaplainI Father Heihle on." 
The offense put Lafayette's gift to good usH. Thanks to an right­play drive that included two first down recPptions by llankPr Joey Gelhornll, the (rish found thcm­selvns at the Sooner 1-yard line. In his first possession or the game, junior Tony Driver pundrncl the ball in for the score. 
For tho day, Gothernll had six receptions for 133 yards, both 
player of the game Jarious Jackson 

career highs. In addition, a 58­vard touchdown catch was the iongest passing play of his career. 
"The defense was lined up in a certain way," Jackson said. "Putting guys on Joey and against our receivers like line­backflrs. Thfly didn't have a chance to get nickel personnel in the game. Joey ran great routes, and Ijust gave him the ball." 
Arter fielding the kickoff to their own 32-yard line, the Sooners attempted to regain some breathing room and keep the team in front for good. Hut the visitors only got as far as the Irish 35, before two incomplete passes and one for short gain forced them l.o punt. The well­placed kick put the Irish on their own 2-yarcl line with 14:45 left in the game. Huns by Driver and Fisher opened up some space for Jackson, but the Irish drive seemed to momentarily stall, with a third-down situation at their own 33-vard line. 
But Jackso·n again took mat­ters into his own hands, scam­pering 23 yards for the first down. 
"It was a quarterback draw," Jackson said. "I was just playing it real calm, letting the defense 
sort itself out, and running with it." 
Two plays later, Jackson hit a wide-open Getherall to give the Irish a first-and-goal situation at the Sooner 7. Following a five­yard run by Fisher and a penal­ty, Driver slanted right into the end zone for the go-ahead touch­down. 
"Basically they just whipped us in the second half," Oklahoma bead coach Ron Stoops said about the Irish. "We did some good things early but wasn't strong enough to finish. You have to giv!1 their players credit. Theifought and their will to win out did ours." 
After senior Jim Sanson's field goal attempt hit the right upright and bounced wide late in the fourth quarter, the Sooners took over at their own 20-yard line. 
With one last shot, Heupel tried to lead his team back to the Irish end zone. But four straight incompletions finished the game for the Sooners. 
"It wasn't as well as Josh is capable." Stoops said of Heupel's effort. "Josh knows it and we say it all the time. He has got to have people around him. We have to get receivers open and make plays. I haven't seen us since I 
quote of the game 
"It's really not that scientific. 
have been here go four straight incompletions." 
While Heupel had thrne touch­down passes for the game, set­ting the new team record with 16 on the year, his 22-of-40 per­formance for 168 yards with one interception fell short of his sea­son average. 
"lle's an accurate guy," Davie said about Heupel. "But when you really get nervous is when a guy like that can run with the football. We basically darnd him to run with it. I think he is tremendously accurate with a good arm, but it makes it flasier when you face someone who doesn't want to run Urn football." 
Jackson combirnid rushing and passing to confuse the Sooner defense. Ile had 107 yards rush­ing and 276 yards in tlrn air. Jackson completed 15 of 21 passes for the day. But for Jackson, hAing able to hPlp put the team back on track is a morn valuable than individual accom­plishments. 
''I've got to go out and play as hard as I can," he said. "That's what I wanted to do nvery single play: 1 wanted to give all my energy, and do it t.o the best of my ability, and I think I accom­plished that." 
stat of the game 
284 rushing yards 
.... 

With a healthy toe, the Irish 

71le Irish returned lo
Today we made plays and didn't 
captain put forth his best game 

smash-mouth Notre Dame 
turn the ball over, so we won. " 
ofthe year with rn7 yards 

football and controlled the 
Kevin Rogers
rushing and 276 yards passing. 

ballfor most ofthe game. 
Irish offensive coordinator 
-

page 2 
report card 

A 
quarterbacks: Jackson played like the Jackson ofI998 and the Irish won like the Irish of I 998 
8+ 
running backs: 193 yards. two touch­dou·ns and no turnovers by the run­ning backs should give Davie confi­dence in them again. 
A 
receivers: Getherall's return gave the Irish another receivng threat. 
althou_gh losing Nelson could hurt in 
the long run. 

offensive line: The Irish came out and8-played smash-mouth football thanks to the line, but it did allow three sacks. 
8 
defensive line: Heupel's quick release made rushing him difficult, but Irons and /Jryant each managed to get a 
sack. 

8-
linebackers: The Irish played nickel and dime defenses most ofthe game, so the linebackers didn't play much. 
A 
defensive backs: Facing the top pass­ing offense in the country. the Irish secondary put together its best ejfort 
of the year. 

special teams: Daniels broke the F Oklahoma team record for return yards by himself. Sanson missed two field goals. and llildbold caused a safety. 
8 
coaching: ffSanson is still the kicker 
against Arizona State. this grade 
becomes an F. 
overall: It's amazing how 
good things happen when 
you don't turn over the ball. 

2.96 
adding up the nun1bers Sooner first-hall points 
23 
7 Sooner second-half points 
total yards by the Irish 
566
offense  
40:41  Irish time of possession  
Sooner lime of possession  19:19  

16 
touchdown passes in 1999 by Oklahoma quarterback Josh 
Heupel -a new Sooner record 
Brandan Daniels' return yards -a new 
229
Oklahoma record 
people who like "Kutyoi," according to a sign flown above the stadium 
Monday, October 4, 1999

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
IRISH INSIGHT 


As the final seconds ticked off the clock in Notre Dame Stadium, head coach Bob Davie and receivers coach Urban Meyer could be heard shouting, "It's over! It's over!" and hugging as they 
jumped up and down on the 
Irish sidelines. After four weeks of questions 
regarding his 
play-calling and clock manage­
ment, Davie 


finally had a chance to enjoy Mike Connolly a victory and the rewards of 
associate
coaching. 

"It's a lol easi­sports editor er tonight when I get home," Davie said after the game. "This will be the first night I can watch ESPN and catch the highlights. It will be fun to go home and see what other people did across the country with­out having to turn the volume down." 
The volume on the Davie house­hold TV may have been loud Saturday night, but it wasn't as loud as Notre Dame Stadium was on Saturday afternoon. Two weeks ago against Michigan State, the Spartans faced a critical first down late in the fourth quarter with the game still in doubt. 
If the Irish could force the Spartans to punt, there was still a chance of a Notre Dame victory. With such a crucial play coming up, one would figure that the crowd would be loud-but it wasn't. Two weeks ago, the crowd was merely apathetic. 
But this week was a different story. The game was still in doubt with just a little more than two min­utes left on the clock. The Sooners faced third-and-10 from their own 20 yard line. Trailing by four, quar­terback Josh Heupel had to lead his team 80 yards if the Sooners were to go 4-0. This week the crowd responded to the crucial situation. The keys were out, the fans were on their feet and the stadium with shaking with noise. Two plays later. the Irish had the ball back and a second victorv was in hand. 

"I thought our fans did a great job," Davie said. "We haven't made it easy for our fans this year. But to come out in the second half and still see that stadium sold out -you could feel the momentum swinging our way." 
Irish fans have slipped to a pretty sorry state when the head coach seems surprised that people haven't left at halftime. 
Davie often says that Irish fans are the best in the country but until this week, they hadn't looked like the best in the country. They hadn't even looked like the best in the county. Penn High School has had better fans then ours the past few weeks. 
But this week, it was completely different. There was life in the stadi­um. And that life extended beyond just the sidelines. 
Sophomore tackle Jordan Black said last week that winning would "really put some life into this team." 
There was life in every player on the field. From Jarious .Jackson who battled through a toe injury and the haunting turnovers of previous weeks to put together a near flaw­less game to defensive back Lee Lafayette, who had been picked on by opposing quarterbacks in previ­ous games, but responded to grab the interception that turned the game around for the Irish, there was a different Irish team on the field Saturday. 
Trailing by 16 points in the third quarter, the Irish could have quit. They had seen previous comeback attempts fail and it would have been easy for Notre Dame to just give up and accept their fourth loss on the season. 
"It was a gut check for them and the kids really responded in the sec­ond half," defensive coordinator Greg Mattison said. "They have had great character all year. They have battled and battled for us. They could have quit. It would havP, berm easier for them to say 'Tm not going anymore.' But instead they battled and I was really proud of them." 
The Irish battled back against adversity and earned the right to finally enjoy a victory. 
"It's just about enjoying the win," Davie said. "It's about the guys going home and enjoying this win. For tonight. this makes things bet­ter." 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Monday, October 4, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

Fisher and company rush past Sooners 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
This year's Notr·f\ DamP-running game may not hri11g back memories of the Four Il11rsP11w11. They will never ue con­l'usPd with the Bcl.tis/Brnoks/WattP.rs backlit>ld or l.lw l\llrly '')Os. 
But Saturday, facing an Oklahoma d1.f0l'HSP yiPlding 26:{ yards all('I 10.3 points fll'r ganw -s1wcnth in the nation -I.hi• Irish brought ba1:k !lashes or an Parli('.r, mon• succc-ssful pnriod of their footlmll history. 
"h1r us to wi11. w,1 have to run tho ball," Bob DaviP said on Saturday. "It was ,L littl,• bit cloudy aml rainy in Notre llanw Stadium so WI' just decidecl it was tinw to gl't hark to Notrn !Jame football." 
/\nd that tlwv did. 
From Tony i•islwr's 5S-yarrl scamper ol'l'-tacklP on the lirst play from scrim­mage to running out tho last l minut11, !i4 snconds of lhn game, tlrn ground attack turrwd in its hcsl performance of' 
!111• S<HlSllll. 
Prior to Saturday, tlw Irish had run tlw hall on ouly :16 µnrcenl ol' their plays from S(Timnrngt> on Llw snason. Against Oklahoma, Notr<' llanw ran 79 plays, of' wliil'l1 :i(, w1H·n ruslws. 
Af'11•r g1•1ting a two-hour pI~p talk from fornll'r tPamrnat1· Autry Denson on Thursday night, hshnr rnsponded with a 
.Jarious .Jackson lunwd in a r.areer-b1ist I 07 yards rushing. while Tony Driver livt>d up to his ni(·k1rnm1\ "T.D.." scoring two touchdowns on tlw ground. 
In all. till' Irish ground attack accumu­lat.l'd 284 vards. Tlw Irish had ruslwd for a total 0 01' 287 yards in tlw prnvious four gm1ws. 
"WP k1ww WP had to nstablish a run­ning gam1• and rnntrol the ball," Fish1'r said. '"Thal was prntty mud1 our main ohjP1·tiw during tlw hyn wenk. WP PX11­n1tNl our f'undanwntals in this gamc." 
Noti•p Da11w wastt,d no lime establish­ing tlw run. lwginning tlrn day with a l'ivP-play. 76-yard touchdown march. Fislwr gairll'd Mi of his yards on the first two µlays of tlw gamP to put the Irish at tlw 10-ya.rd lilrn. /\Jkr being stuffed on an option run. Ja<:ks(lll scrambled oul of' the pock<,t for a I0-yard touchdown run to providH tlw early lead. 
Down 30-14 early in the third quartnr, till' Irish did not panic. Instead of show­ing signs or disarray they stuck to their gamn plan and ran the football. In the S(>cond half alone, they rushed for 162 yards 011 28 att1m1pts. 
"You have to stay in your offense and do what you can do," Davie said. "We couldn't all of a sudden change our olfonsn." 
Drivf'r's nrst touchdown was also his lirsl carry of' thn day. as he reduced tho Oklahoma lead to 30-28 with less than thrne minutes remaining in the third quarter. 
The best was yet to come for Fisher, Driver. Jackson and company. 
Starting at their own 2-yard line with 
14:45 left in the game, Jackson drove the Irish down the field in Elway-esque fashion. Facing third-and-2 from the Irish 33-yard line and unable to find a receiver. .Jackson took off up the middle for a 23-yard gain and the first down. 
Of 11 total plays in the series, eight were rushes, culminating in another one-yard touchdown run for Driver. Ahead for the first time since early in the first quarter, the Irish never looked back. Notre Dame ran the ball on each of its last 10 plays from scrimmage, as it literally ran out the clock. 

"We were going to try to run the foot­ball today," said offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers following Saturday's game. "Every question that's been asked to me is 'Why can't we run the football.' Probably some of that reason is that I'm too impatient. But today we stuck with the plan." 
Coinciding with the sudden emergence of the running game, the offensive line turned in a solid performance. The guys in the trenches cleared holes for the backs, enabling Fisher, Driver and Jackson room to operate. 
"If you are going to be an offensive lineman at Notre Dame. you have to be able to run the ball," said offensive tack­le Jordan Black. "For years that has been our bread and butter. 
"You can put anybody in the backfield and if we don't do what we are supposed to, then the back isn't going to look good," Black continued. "This week we did our jobs and you got to see the potential and talent." 
After staring with three losses in four games, any sense of confidence can help the Irish. According to Davie, Saturday's running performance could be a confi­dence booster for his team. 
"I think those backs had a lot to do with our confidence because they were running hard," Davie said. "That was what got us in trouble early in the year because we haven't had confidence in our running game. But hopefully we can build on this." 

AP Poll  scoring summary & stats  ESPN/USA Today poll  
team recor<f, points 1 Florida Slate (64} 5·0 1,744 2 Penn Slate /5) 5-0 1,&72 3 Michigan 5·0 1,606 4 Nebraska 5-0 1,537 5 Virginia Tech (1) 4·0 1,427 6 Tennessee 3-1 1,346 7 Georgia Tech 3-1 1,294 8 Florida 4·1 1,211 9 Kansas Slate 4-0 1,151 10 Georgia 4·0 1,145 11 Michigan Stale 5-0 1,111 12 Alabama 4·1 858 13 TexasA&M 3-1 855 14 Mississippi State 5-0 851 15 Marshall 5-0 692 16 East Carolina 5-0 690 17 Purdue 4-1 649 18 Syracuse 4-1 586 19 Miami (Fla.) 2-2 487 20 Wisconsin 3-2 425 21 Ohio State 3-2 313 22 USC 3·1 281 23 Texas 4-2 218 24 BYU 2-1 121 25 Minnesota 4•0 102 other teams receiving votes: Mississippi 95, Wyoming 48, Oklahoma 43, Air Force 30, Pittsburgh 21, Arkansas 19, Boston College 17, Virginia 17, Southern Miss. 13, NOTRE DAME 12, Kenluc;ky 9, Washlnglo11 9  scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Oklahoma 7 16 7 0 30 7 7 14 6 34Notre Dame team statistics ND OU first downs 26 14 rushes-yards 56-284 14-69 passing-yards 282 168 aomp-att-int 16-23-0 22-40-1 return yards 92 243 punls-auerage 3-36.3 8-40.1 fumhles-lnst 0-0 1-1 penalties-yards 6-42 4-34 time ofpossession 40:41 19:19 individual statistics passing ND -Jackson 15-21-0, Batlle 1-2-0 ou -Heupel 22-40-1 rushing NU-Fisher 26-140, Jackson 15-107, Driver 7-18, Lopienski 4-16, Jones 2-10, Givens 1-4, Hildbold 1-(-11) OU ­Thornton 8-56, Daniels 1-10, Littrell 3-6, Heupel 2-(-3) receiving ND -Gelherafl 6-133, Nelson 2-46, Brown 2-34, O'Leary 2-28, Holloway 2-21, Goodspeed 1-11, Fisher 1-9 OU ­Smith 4·49, Jackson 4-27, Mackey 4·13, Norman 3-29. Daniels 2-29, Savage 2-23, Liltrell 2-(-4), Thornton 1-2  scoring summary 1st ND -13:17 Jackson 10-yd. run Sanson kick, 7-0 OU -13:00 Daniels 89-yd. kick­off relum Duncan kick, 7-7 2nd OU -12:U7 Team safety, 9-7 OU-8:59 Jackson 4-yd. pass from Heupel Duncan kick, 16-7 ND ­5:20 Getherall 58-yd. pass from Jackson Sanson kick, 16-14 OU ­4:56 Smllh 26-yd, pass 1rom Heupel Duncan kick, 23-14 3rd OU-10;01 Danials 15-yd. pass trorn Heupel Duncan kick, 30-14 ND-7:20 Halloway 15-yd. pau from Jackson Sanson kick, 30-21 ND-2:37 Drhrer1-yd. run Sanson kick, 30·28 4th ND-9:19 Driver 1-yd. nm  team record points 1 Florida State (53) 5-0 1,469 · 2 Penn state (6) 5-0 1,409 3 .Michigan 5•0 1,351 4 Nebraska 5·0 1,308 5 Virginia Teen 4·0 1,218 6 Tennessee 3·1 1,129 7 Florida 4-1 1,015 8 Georgia Tech 3·1 1,012 9 Georgia 4·0 1,002 10 Kansas State H 983 11 Michigan Slate 5-0 928 12 Texas l\&M 3·1 775 13 Mississippi State 5-0 771 14 Alabama 4•1 605 15 Marshall 5-0 561 15 Purdue 4-1 561 17 Syracuse 4-1 543 18 East Carolina 5-0 503 19 Ohio State 3-2 415 20 Wisconsin 2·2 313 21 Miami (fla.) 3.1 308 22 use 3-1 305 23 Texas 4-2 207 24 BYU 3-1 119 25 Mississippi 4•1 69 other teams receiving votes: Arkansas 51, Boston College 40, Minnesota 32, Virginia 22, Air Force 19, Missouri 18, Oklahoma 16, Colorado St. 16, Stanford 15, Oregon 13, Maryland 10, Wvomlng 9, Texas Tech 8, Kentucky 6, NOTRE DAME 6  ,. - 
cooverslon lalled, 34-30  

O
THE Notre Dame vs. Oklaho_ma BSERVER Monday, October 4, 1999
''-­

MICHELLE KRUPA/The Observer 

Jarious Jackson runs over Oklahoma cornerback Pee Wee Woods for a few of his 107 yards rushing on Saturday. The Irish quarterback's rushing total was his highest of the season and the third 100-yard rushing game by an Irish player this season. 
Back to winning ways 
There were no boos or bowed Irish heads after 

Notre Dame's 34-30 win over Oklahoma Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. The return of Joey Getherall to the line-up and Jarious Jackson's return to his 1998 form led 
the Irish to a thrilling, come-from-behind victory over the No. 25 Sooners. A 98-yard touchdown drive capped 
off by Tony Driver's second touchdown of the day gave Notre Dame the victory that finally snapped its three-game losing streak and returned the Irish 
to their usual winning ways. 

Irish flanker Joey Getherall signals one of his four first downs on Saturday. 



B 

Monday, October 4, 1999 
BOOK REVIEW 
That really is disgusting 
By BRIAN McLAUGHLIN 
Srcne Writer 
!lave you ever wondered what a sootigan is? llavn you ovrr rontem­platnd how much you really can accornplish with a strip of raw liver ,111d a f'pw n1hlwr bands" Do you want to know how 01w would go about eat­ing a monkoy's brain'? 
A sonwwha( l'.iviliznd 1rnrso11 would probably answer 1.lwse quPstions with a rnsounding "NOi" llowevnr, those i11trig111·d by \\lrnl w,1.s jusl writt(•11 ... w!\11. tl11•y'rn sickos. But t.hny'rp also in lurk. lrncausn tlrnir bibl,1 has finally IJ1•1rn wrilt1•11. · 
"That's Disgusting." wriltf'n by Creta (;arbagn, bills itsnlf as "an adult guide Lu what's gross, tasteless, rude, crude .ind IP\\'d." YPt. this forohoding dis­claimor dons not !)VCtl begin to dnsrrilw how far hnyond tlw bounds of dnrenr·y llrn book go.es. 
Whnn first rnading the book ror rnview. onn would f'igurn, "lfow bad rnn it be'! It was published by a lcgiti­mat,1 publishing company and received (indirnctly) Lhrough tlrn University." llow1wcr, these doubts are quickly swepl away by tlrn nrst page of the hook. which giv1is a comprehensive list of the most bizarre proctological expe­riPnces. 
They an~ shocking, sickening and 
Image courtesy of Ten Speed Press 
delightl"ul to tell Urn truth. After being "That's Disgusting" is far from perfect.
blown away by how over-the-top the book's 
As mentioned before, the book is in the for­contl'nt is. tlw reader f'inds himself laughing 
mat of a world-record book, with short pas­out loud over and over again with each turn sages describing the events behind each dis­of the pag!1. ll is also quickly realized how gusting wonder. While normal world-record
difficult rnvimving it would be sincn even a 
books are usually written in a deadpan,dPscription of' what is written in "That's straightforward and factual style, GarbageDisgusting" would probably be deemed 
likes to spice up the anecdotes with tons ofunprintablP any 1wwspaper. ­sarcasm and wisecracks.
Thn book is mally a series of short anec­
This is the book's largest failing for a num­dotes and lists which covnr ber of reasons. First of all,tlw most disgusting aspects 
Garbage's use of sarcasm
of human beings' behavior That's Disgusting 
seems strained and remindsand charactnristics. It is a one of over-the-hill adultsworld rncord or llw gross, 

attempting to appear "hip"
n•counting tlw most. nause­
-attempts that everyone
ating thiJJgs pnople have knows almost always fail.
d(HH) throughout history, as 0111 offiue shamrocks 
Secondly, the wisecracksWl'II as thr• most sickening 
can be so painfully corny
ddails ol' tlw human body that they are sometimes
and ils workings. Author: Greta Garbage 
more disgusting than the
Tim quir,k stories and lists 
content of the book itself.
arP snparatnd by category, so one can go 
And finally, at times, the author concentrates
righl lo whatever sparks one's sick fancy. 
so hard on being funny that she becomes neg­Wlwtlwr thosn intnrosts lean morn towards ligent to the facts supporting the matter that
castration or dnf,~cation. tlrnrn's something she is relating. After all, the facts are reallyfor ,wnryon,~ in this hook. 
the most fasr.inating part.

WPII. mayb,\ not PVPryone. In fact, most Overall, the use of informal humor in this
pnopln would probably find "That's 
book seems entirely out of place, since theDisgusting" to lw disturbing, obscene and real emphasis should be on the true events. ff·
outright offnnsiv,i -evnn this reviewer had 
Garbage were to approach this same subjectto wrinklP his nosP and give a displeased matter with a completely straight face and
groan at a fow ol' tlw morn extreme passages. 
dry tone, the effect ,vould be much funnierTim author probably realized this when writ­duo to the contrast between the simple rela­
ing tlw book, as (;rnta Garbage is obviously a 
tion or facts and the absurdity of the subject
p,rnudo11ym inlPndPd lo protect the true matter that those facts are relating.
author f'rom Pxcessive 11mounts of hate mail 
,\!though "That's Disgusting" is not veryand alienation from associalPs in the writing well-written, its content is truly fascinating,
world. 
and this alone makes the book worth reading.
l11d1:l'd, in this modPrn, civilized nation, 
It is more than certain that most people whoGarbage's work catnrs lo an extremely small 
try il will throw thr book down in horror. Butaudi,ince. But despilli its size, this audience 
for those who can stomach it, they will findwill most dnfinitrly {Jmhrace the book with themselves niesmerized for hours, laughing
f'urious passion, chw to tho book's direct, in­
at mankind in its most disgusting form. So
your-l'acc approach. 
bring along the barfbags and pick up a copyllowcver, f!V(!ll as a v\·ork in tastelPssness, 
today. 


Like to read? Write book reviews for Scene. 631-4540 or scene@nd.edu 
s 
page 13 

AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

Pt1oto courtesy of Peeps.com 

Pop star Britney Spears claims nature helped her bosom grow. 
Spears denies breast implants rumor 
NEW YORK Singer Britney Spears says that a growth spurt, not breast implants, have contributed to her increased proportions. 
"When I first signed with the record label, we took a lot of' photos, and those were the pictures that got used. I weighed 105 pounds; I weigh 130 now. I went through a major growth spurt," Spears, 17, tells the-Oct. 9 issue of TV Guide. 
Spears, whose "Baby One More Time" album has sold more than 5 million copies, says the rumors bothered her for a while. 
"In some interviews I would just start crying," she says. "I'd be like, 'Why are you being so rude to me?' After a while peo­ple stopped saying stuff. But for a while it got really tough." 
Allman Brothers' graves cause trouble 
MACON, Ga. 

Duane Allman's and Berry Oakley's relatives arc so adamant about protecting their grave sites, they bought the land imme­diately surrounding them and claim it's private -no trespass­ing. 
"We don't want anyone (kicked] out of Rose Hill, but don't deface the graves. Don't have sex on the graves," said Lars Anderson, an attorney for two relatives of the two Allman Brothers Band founders. 
They died in separate motorcycle accidents in the early 1970s. 
Macon Mayor Jim Marshall say the cemetery is public proper­ty and the hundreds of people who flock to the graves each month are welcome. 
It's also why criminal trespassing charges against a Macon Telegraph photographer arrested while laking photos of the graves were dropped Friday. 
Marshall said the city is considering allowing a fence around the graves and a sign to tell visitors what they may and may not do. 
Davis continues strong Arista reign 
NEWYOHK At 65, Clive Davis is the man with the Midas touch in America's music scene a.nd an ear for what kids want lo hear. 
The Arista Records president invested millions in hip-hop in the early '90s, and claims chart-topper Puffy Daddy among his protegcs. On the folk-pop front, Sarah McLachlan's album "Surfacing" has sold 7 million. 
When Davis took a chance on 1970s guitarist Carlos Santana, Santana's new album "Supernatural" hit the Top 5. And in .lune. Arista recorded it's most profitable year -$425 .. million in sales and 69 gold or platinum albums. "An artist has to be able to fulfill in person the magic on a record." Oavis told Time magazine in this week's editions. Davis' latest addition to Arista: the Artist formerly known as Prince. The Artist's new album debuts next month. 
Bush speaks mind on '20/20' 
NEW YORK Sam Donaldson got former president George Bush to admit he 
has "a vulgar strrak" and exchanges Monica Lewinsky jokes. The ABC newsman interviewed Bush for "20/20." 
-

"Although I couldn't get [Bush] to tell me the latest one he had heard, I think Im is at the point in his life wlrnre ho has the freedom to say exactly what is on his mind," Donaldson tells the Oct. 9 issue of TV Guide. 
r -­1 
I 
' 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 4, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Ninth-inning single keeps pennant hopes alive for Mets 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Just days after being counted out of the playoff chase, the Mets assured themselves at least a tie for the NL wild card when Melvin Mora scored on Brad Clontz's ninth-inning wild pitch for a victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Mora, 4-for-30 in his career, hit a one-out single off Greg Hansell (1-3) With the crowd chanting "Let's go, Mets!" Edgardo Alfonzo lined a single to right that sent Mora to third. 
Hansell intentionally walked John O\Prud to load the bases for Piazza, who led the NL this year in grounding into double plays. 
Bul Lhal was never a factor when Clontz. who briefly pitched for the Mets last year, threw a low-and-outside pitch that catcher Joe Oliver could not handle. 
The ball bounced onto the screen behind home plate, allowing Mora to score and sirnding the Mets pouring out of the dugout and bullpen. 
Red Sox 1, Orioles 0 
Jeff Frye, who broke up Baltimore's combined no-hit bid in the eighth inning, hit an RBI single in the 10th as the playoff-bound Boston Red Sox won 1-0 Sunday in what might have been the final game for Orioles manager Ray Miller. 
Frye's two-out single in the 10th off Mike Timlin (3-9) fol­lowed singles by Lou Merloni and Donnie Sadler. 
Cardinals 9, Cubs 5 
Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa each gave it his best shot 
CLASSIFIEDS 
on the final day. And once again, Big Mac came out on top. 
McGwire hit his 65th home run and Sosa hit his 63rd as the St. Louis Cardinals dosed out an otherwise dismal year with a victory over the Chicago Cubs in a game called after 4 1/2 innings because of rain. 
Blue Jays 9, Indians 2 
David Wells, who won't have chance to torment Cleveland in the playoffs this year, heat the Indians on the final day of the regular season. 
Wells pitched his league­leading seventh complete game, scattering nine hits as the Toronto Blue Jays defeated the Indians. 
Phillies 6, Expos 5 
Alex Arias hit a two-run bloop single in the eighth off Ugueth Lrbina to lift the Philadelphia Philli1.1s to a come­back victory over the Montreal Expos. 
Expos starter Dustin Hermanson was lifted after seven effective innings with a 5-2 lead, retiring the last nine batters before the bullAt)n blew it. The Phillies avoided a sea­son-ending sweep. but finished with their 12th losing season in 13 years. 
Braves 18, Marlins 0 
In their largest shutout win in 114 years, the Braves pounded out 21 hits and Tom Glavine threw five scoreless innings in his postseason tune­up Sunday to close out the reg­ular season with a rout of the Florida Marlins. 
Atlanta, winning 11 of its last 
13 games en route to a record 

MLB Playoffs Television Schedule 
Series 

NLDS atAtlanta Texas vs. NY Yankees NLDS at Arizona NLDS at Atlanta Cleveland vs. Boston NLDS at Arizona Cleveland vs. Boston Texas'vs. NY Yankees 
eighth consecutive playoff berth, finished the regular sea­son with the best record in the majors (103-59). The Marlins wound up with the worst mark in the NL at 64-98. 
White Sox 1, Twins 1 
The Chicago White Sox and Minnesota Twins ended disap­pointing seasons with a rain­shortened tie. 
The game was called after 6 1-2 innings because of rain. The umpires waited 35 min­utes before they called the game. 
Paul Konerko hit an RBI dou-
Game  Date  Time  Network  
Gamel  Tue., Oct. 5  4p.m.  ESPN  
Gamel  Tue., Oct. 5  8 p.m.  NBC  
Game 1  Tue., Oct. 5  11 p.m. ESPN  
Game2  Wed., Oct. 6  4 p.m.  ESPN  
Game 1  Wed., Oct. 6  8 p.m.  FOX  
Gatne2  Wed., Oct. 6  11 p.m. ESPN  

Game2 Thu., Oct. 7 Game2 Thu., Oct. 7 
4p.m. ESPN 8p.m. FOX 
SCOTT HARDYffhe ObseNer 
since Sept. 29, 1992, a 1:44 game against Kansas City. 
Rockies 9, Giants 8 
The Colorado Rockies gave Jim Leyland a nice going-away present Sunday: a two-run rally in the ninth inning for a victory over San Franciscn in his final game as manager. 
A disappointing season for Leyland ended on a positive note when Edgard Clemente hit a sacrifice fly with one out. 
The Rockies avoided a three­game sweep at Coors Field and finished 72-90 in their only season under Leyland. 


ble in th~ first inning for Chicago and Minnesota tied it on Torii Hunter's RBI double in the seventh. 
Angels 1, Rangers 0 

Tim Salmon hit a seventh­inning home run and Jarrod Washburn came within an out of the first complete game of his career as the Anaheim Angels beat the Texas Rangers. 
In a typically snappy end-of­season game played in 1 hours, 56 minutes, the teams com­bined to strike out 22 times. It was Anaheim's quickest game 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to Nude Male models needed for stu-LOADED Need sets of two or four tickets for adopt. v-,m provide a liletime ol dent Art lilm. 6 Bedrm '00-01 yr. Navy or USC games. Call Brian at 
laughter,love,devotion and opportu-Mere: 247-1810 273-0482 I 234·3831 634-3346.
NOTICES TICKETS 
nities.  
HOUSE OF FRANCIS RELIGIOUS GOODS The largest selection of Icon's in the Midwest.Come and visit our out­standing selection' Call Fred @ 219-233-2523. Located across trom Memorial Hospital, house behind Kagel's Flower Shop, 111 E. Navarre St. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY www.CopyShopND.com Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight WANTED  800-484-4699 code 0019 WANTED: 1 or 2 Jr. or Senior classwomen to host 2 highschool senior girls wanting to see Notre Dame, hoping to attend.Time starts with lunch at University Club Friday October 15 at noon, with a post-pep rally dinner at Carriage House. Includes all day •~ailgate" Saturday in Joyce South & any incidental expenses.Other plans welcomed.Contact 219·287­1405, leave message. Browse icpt.com for Springbreak "2000". All destinations offered.Trip Participants.Student Orgs & Campus Sales Reps want-ed.Fabulous parties,hoteis & prices.Call Inter-Campus 800·327­6013  Free One Bedroom Apartment in Historic Home 1.5 miles from Campus. A family with three children seeks fun ,energetic,outstanding student or graduate to live in charming apartment for FREE in exchange for mutually agreed upon babysit­ting responsibilities that include some evenings,overnights,as well as trav­el.Send cover letter.resume and ref­erences to Nanny Search,P.O.Box 652,Notre Dame.IN 46556. TUTORS needed for college & high school students in Algebra & Intermediate Algebra. Also need tutors for general help/review in Eng.,Sociology, Psychology. Call Linda at 272-8235 or email-lwaelch­li@datacruz.com  3,4 & 5 bdrm homes. Tall ceilings, wash/dry, walk to campus. call for more info. 289-4365 Beautilul Home. 5 bedrooms, two bathrooms. Brand new stove, refrig­erator, dishwasher, washer and dryer. Alarm. Attached garage. Fenced yard. Immaculate condition. 675.0776 8 bedroom house. 2 baths. Completely renovated. ND Ave. 675.0776 5/6 BDRM HOMES."00-01YR 272­6551 6BDRM$150 person.272-6306 FOR SALE  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526 SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS 277-6619 WANTED­ND football !ix. AM · 232-2378 PM · 288-2726 ND tootball tix for sale. AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 l NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.2726551 BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT· BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  FOR SALE: ASU TIX. 271-9331 NEED FOOTBALL TIX FOR ARI­ZONA GAME. CALL JACK AT 219-257-1141. For SALE 2 tixs all games 272­6306 Will trade 2 ASU or Navy or BC GA's for 2 use. Will sell Tenn/ASU/Navy/BC tix. 607-336-7218 PERSONAL I love Joey Getherall. He is the man.  
~  STUDENT OPENINGS 5-30 hrs.lweek. Flex. around classes. Scholarships avail. www. wofkforstudents.corn/lN 282-2357 ooN·T WORK THIS SCHOOL YEAR! $1200 TO $2000 THIS MONTH. Part time 4 to 6 hours per week. Call 24 hrs (219) 239-6709  REFEREES REFEREES NEEDED FOR BAS· KETBALL & INLINE HOCKEY. THIS IS A TREMENDOUS OPPORTUNITY TO EARN GOOD MONEY, MEET NEW PEOPLE, & HAVE FUN' EXPERIENCE HELP­FUL, BUT WE Will TRAIN EVERYBODY. CONTACT THE RECSPORTS OFFICE-BRAN­DON LEIMBACH OR JEFF WALK­ER@ 631-6100, OR STOP BY  FOR RENT ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.hornepage.com/ 232-2595  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches.Nightlile!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel .com 1-800-678-6386 FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL271-9412  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412 SPRING BREAK 2000 ''THE MILLENIUM" A NEW DECADE ...NCE IN TRAV­El.FREE TRIPS.FREE MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS AND FREE MEALS' 1800-426-7710 WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM  AUSTRALIA! SUMMER /WINTER/INTER­SHIPS/SEMESTER PROGRAMS www.study-australia.com Contact Q!Jli~ !il1 !ilU . ll-<l.Llliilr.ilia,QQ[l] The freshmen are crazy. But I love them anyway. Here's a shout out to my morn and dad, just to see if they'fe reading. Hello Mikey-moo.  
- SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT GROUPS-Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS Fund event.No safes required.Fund Rasier days are tilling up, so call today.Contact Joe @ 1-888-522­4350.  THE OFFICE IN THE ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER TODAY REFEREE MEETINGS WILL TAKE PLACE IN THE ROLFS SPORTS REC. CENTER MEET· ING ROOM ON WED. 1016 AT 6PM FOR HOCKEY ANO AT 7PM FOR BASKETBALL  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths. $80­$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit 11107, 1­800-418·9487.  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 Phone Cards, 669 min/$20 243-9361 or 258-4805  WANTED:USCTIX 247·1659 ND MOM NEEDS 11 ARIZ. STATE GA'S. PLEASE CALL 1-800-447-1200, THEN PRESS 2-2242. CALL WILL BE RETURNED ASAP.  Boy, I think I ruined that freshman's life. Oh well, that'll teach him to approach strange girls alter indulging. Booya' Buogiorno. Principessa!  

Monday, October 4, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 



-


FORTUNE 
10~·­
~IEI 
Tl WIii FDI 

Imagine looking forward to the week as much as you look forward to the weekend. Imagine spending each minute with unlimited opportunity and continuous options. At Ernst & Young we provide access to the most sophisticated and effective tools in the industry. See you Monday. www.ey.com 
.... 


@1999 ERNST & YOUNG LLP 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 4, 1999 
TENNIS 
Serena beats Venus for Grand Slam Cup 
Associated Press 
MUNICH, Germany 

Serena Williams beat older sister Venus for the first time in their professional careers Sunday to capture the Grand Slam Cup and a $900.000 pay­day. 
'!'he U.S. Open champion won 6--1, 3-6, 6-3 in a familv final in which the players'· mother applauded at the end. 
Venus, at 19 one year older, applauded Serena and the sis­ters embraced at the net after the match, but did not show much emotion during play. 
"This is exciting, this is what we always wanted," Serena said during the awards ceremony. 
"Congratulations, Serena, the 

U.S. Open champion," Venus said. 
Venus earned $400,000, 

meaning the family budget grew 
by $1.3 million. 
This was the second sister-sis­

ter final in the history of pro 
tennis. In the first, Venus beat 
Serena 6-1, 4-6, 6-4 in Key 
Biscayne, Fla., in March. She 
also won their two nontitle 
matches in 1998. 
Earlier, Greg Rusedski used 

his big serve to overpower 
Tommy Haas in four sets in the 
men's final, taking the richest 
prize in tennis. 
Rusedski fired 29 aces to win 6-3, 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (7-5) and earn $1.3 million. 
"I tried everything. but he was too good for me." said Haas, who won $650,000. 
The $6.7 million tournament, which pays more money per player than any other tennis event, featurns the 12 men and eight women with the best records in the Y('ar's four Grand Slam events. 
Serena won the C .S. Open three weeks ago and now has a 16-match winning streak. Venus ended another Hi-match win­ning streak when she beat Serena in March. Venus was the only top player Serena had never beaten. 
Serena, the more muscular of 
the sisters, won her fifth title of 
the year. She was all over Venus 
from the outset, winning 12 of 
the first three points and hold­
ing Venus to three points in the 
first five games. 
Rut her game deteriorated in 
the second set and Venus 
evened the score. In the third 
set, Serena broke serve for a 3-1 
lead, missed two chances to go 
up 5-1 and needed three match 
points to win in 1 hour, 45 min­
utes. 
Rusedski, who never got past 
the round of 16 in a Grand Slam 
tournament this year, entered 
the Grand Slam Cup when five 
qualifiers, including Pete 
Sampras and Patrick Rafter, 
withdrew because of injuries. 


Specializing in great haircuts, expert color & highlighting 
Student discounts available Thurs.-Sun. with Jill Kuharic 
Located near campus at 1707 South Bend Ave. Walk-in's welcome 277-1875 
CAR TROUBLE??? 
call 
Peppers Imports 
287-4920 
Foreign and Domestic 
•ASE CERTIFIED 
•LOW TOWING RATES 
•FREE PICK UP AND DELIVERY 
•COMPLETE AUTO DETAILING 
Located at: 774 Lincoln Way East South Bend 

£i11i11., a11.d (!, opl11.~ 
"'ith 
Fibromyalgia is a recognized medical condition including symptoms of widespread paill, fatigue, and sleep disruption 
Understanding, Treatment, Daily Living 
Program presented by: Julian Ungar. M.D., Neurologist, Lifeline Medical Center Scott Howland Director. UNO Office for Students with Disabilities Wendy Senle. Ph.D., Staff Psychologist, UND University Counseline Center A panel discussion will follow led by students with fibromyalgia ~ 
Family and friends are encouraged to attend! 
Monday October 4, 1999 7:00 -8:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Sponsors 

No_tre Dame: University Counseling Center, University Health Center. and Office for Students with Disabilities. Saint Mary's College: Office of C<>unseling and Career Dcvel<>pment and College Health Service 

Start at the top ­with the one compa,ry that can supportyour highest aspirations.  
At SEI, ambition drives our leadership, and oppornmity drives your success. We don't just encourage your ambition, we reward it, with the innovation, stability and ·self-directed career it takes to fulfill your visions of the future.  
Ambition wanted. Futures tklivered.  l'!farmation Session  
Montkq, Odober ft, 1999 Notre Dame Room, Morri.f ]nn 7:00 PM  
&Jual Opportunity Employer  
SEI .lrtves!n1ents The art of people. The science of results. www.seic.com/newhire  

Want to work for Sports? Call Brian at 1-4543. 
Monday, October 4, 1999 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

I 
page 17 
I 
I 
I
i 
~ 
I
I I
I 
I

I I
I
I 
~ 
,.. I 
I 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 4, 1999 
HOCKEY 
Carlson's goals .highlight Irish exhibition victory 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame hockey team struggled to find the net in the early going before pulling away for a 4-1 victory over visiting Wilfrid Laurier University, in exhibition action Friday night at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
Notre Dame, which opens Central Collegiate Hockey Association play at the Joyce Center on Thursdav versus Michigan, spent much of the night on the power play, con­verting twice on seven chances. Junior left wing Dan Carlson assisted on both of the power­play goals and iced the victory with a shorthanded, empty-net­ter. 
The Irish owned a dominating 52-13 edge in shots on goal, including a 37-5 margin during the final two periods. Notre Dame's total shots attempted nearly hit triple digits, as the Irish launched 98 total shots in the game, compared to WLU's 31. 
The lrish opened the scoring midway through the second period, cashing in their third power-play chance of the night. Junior defensman Ryan Clark, who made his first appearance for the Irish since last December due to a shoulder injury, got things going with pass from the right to left circle. Junior left wing Dan Carlson then fired the puck on net and senior center Ben Simon, who was filling the slot, deflected the puck out of the air and past goaltender Chad Marshall. 
The visitors tied the game later in the opening period, after a turnover in the Irish zone. Left wing Jeff Ambrosio came up with the puck near the right boards and fired a pass into the slot area for center Mark Dinelnv,· who faked a low shot before· lifting the puck over the left shoulder of sophomore goal­tender Jeremiah Kimento. 
Notrn Dame retook the lead half,,vay through the second period, on a power-play goal by sophomore David Inman-who played center as a freshman hut opened Friday's game as the first-line left wing, alongside Simon and freshman right wing Michael Chin. Carlson recorded his second of three points by passing to senior defenseman Tyson Fraser, whose shot was deflected by a WLU player but trickled between the circles. Inman was in the right place at the right time and quickly fired the puck into the net, ending the niglit for Marshall. 
The Irish stretched to a 3-1 cushion four minutes later, when a shot from junior left wing Chad Chipchase kicked off the back boards, deflected off the skates of backup goalie Trevor Francis and ended up in the goal. Sophomore center Brett Henning and senior right wing Joe Dusbabek picked up assists on the freak play. 
Carlson capped the scoring with 17 seconds left to play, fir­ing from outside the blue line 
Leader/Manager. 
Full-time college students or graduates. $31 Kstarting salary: 
Summer Interns available. 
U.S.M.C. Officer Programs. 
Contact Lt. Simek at 
765-743-8359. 

into the open net.  
Kimento,' making the first  
start of his lrish career, collect­ 
ed seven saves in the opening  
period while facing just two  
shots on goal in the second 20  
minutes. Freshman Tony  
Zasowski closed out the game,  
stopping all three shots he  
faced.  
The Irish defense thwarted all  
four WLU power-play chances,  
with the Golden Hawks rnanag­ •  
ing just two power-play shots on  
goal; Notre Dame racked up 18  
power-play shots on goal in its  
seven man-up chances.  
Notre Dame's opening-day  
forward lines were as follows:  
Inman-Simon-Chin; Carlson­ 
freshman Connor Dunlop-junior  
Matt Van Arkel; Chipchase­ 
Henning-Dusbabek; and junior  
Jay Kopischke-junior Ryan  
Dolder-freshman John  
Wroblewski.  
Notre Dame's defensive pair­ 
ings included Clark and senior  
Nathan Borcga; Fraser and  
freshman Evan Nielsen; and  
seniors Sean Molina and Andy  ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer  
Jurkowski.  Center David Inman had a power-play goal in Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Wilfrid Laurier.  

Toddy's Prepdrdtion Determines Tomorrow's Ach\e\Jement 
As agr_aduating senior, you are preparing for your future. 
At Nav1gant Consulting, Inc., we too are preparing for your future... 
your future as a management consultant. 
~a.vigant. Consu_lting, Inc. (f~rm~rly Peterson Worldwide) is a 
vIsIonary rnternat,o_nal consultmQ firm,. creating economic/information 
management solutions for our clients In the corporate, insurance, 
h~althcare, government and legal communities. Here we see the big
picture... ~nd so will you. You won't just work on a small component 
of the_ pro1ect, yo_u _wm be a~ital m~mber of a c_ross-disciplinary team 
affecting top dec1s1ons and impacting total business operations. 
We se~k future graduates to join Navigant Consulting as Associate Consultants. You must be working towards an accounting; business, economics, finance, engineering or systems degree and have excellent communications skills computer proficiency (especially in MS Office, Word/Excel/Access) and flexibilityregarding overtime and travel. 
Choose Naviga~t Con.suiting... with us behind you, agreat future lies ahead: afu_tur~ f1lled_w1th achievement. We offer highly competitive compensation mcl~~1ng year-end .bonu~es, extensive benefits and great gro~h potential In ~ .dynamic e~v,ronment that believes in you and your ideas. Please vrsrt our website at www.navigantconsulting. com and look for us on campus this recruiting season. 
*On{ampus Information Session* 
October 6 at the Center for Continuing Education, Room 100 6:30-8:30 pm [All attendees will be eligible for the Palm Pilot raffle] 
*Resume Drop-Off through Career & Placement 
September 28 -October 9 
*On{<1mpus lnter~iews* 
October 29, 1999 
Navigant-~
:~:de~coNsULTING. INC. 
Monday, Ocrober 4, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
~GUT Hflf Alffl HANG ONDOORICNOII ----r-------------------------• 
I 

Dear _____ the grouch, 
There's something you should know. In the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy. And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
So, because I like you, may I suggest you start the day with a CROISSAN'WICH" from BURGER KING: It's filled with mouthwatering sausage, egg and cheese. And that should make anyone less cranky. Ewn you. If it doesn't, then we're on to Plan B. And you don't want to know Plan B. 
Sincerely, _____ 

THE DELICIOUS CROISSAN'WICH: 
The Huddle • l.4Fortune Student Center 

It just tastes better: 
www.burgerking.com LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. 

C1999 IIIJlGER KU«; COAl'OA.ITlON 8UAGER KlNG CORPOAAID IS 1l£EXCUJsM LICENSEE Of 1l£ 1T JUST TASJB emm•llWJEMARK,WO 11£ RfGISlffiEO llJRGER KJNG. COOISSNIWK:ff 00 BUN IW_VES lllGO TIWlEMI.RKS 
Associated Press 
Watch out. NFL, the real Randy Moss is back. 
The All-Pro receiver was at his finger-pointing, chest­thumping. touchdown-catching best Sunday, leading the Minnesota Vikings past the Tampa Bay Buccaneers 21-14. 
Moss tied his career-high with a 61-yard catch for a touch­down. He added a 27-yard score and also had a 21-yard reception against triple cover­age that set up Andrew Glover's TD. 
"When you put up 21 points in the first quarter, that's excit­ing," said Moss, who earlier in the week criticized offensive coordinator Ray Sherman•., game plans. 
Moss had only nine catches for 123 yards heading into the game but had four for 120 against the usually stingy Tampa Bay defense. 
Ravens 19, Falcons 13, OT 
The NFC champions dropped to 0-4 when Stoney Case threw a 54-yard pass to Justin Armour in overtime after Falcons coach Dan Reeves passed on having Morten Andersen try a 53-yard field goal with 49 seconds left in regulation. 
The Falcons went three-and­out to open overtime, then Case found Armour behind corner­back Ronnie Bradford and safe­ty Eugene Robinson. 
The Falcons played without starting quarterback Chris Chandler. Backup Tony Graziani left with a concussion in the second period. They also lost Pro Bowl cornerback Ray Buchanan, who was ejected after Case hooked up with Patrick Johnson on a 52-yard touchdown. 
Johnson danced over Buchanan and as he was about to spike the ball, Buchanan jumped to his feet, put Johnson in a bear hug and slammed him into the ground. Buchanan also punched Johnson in the back of the head before an. official pulled him away. 
Visiting Baltimore improved 
to 2-2. 

INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 6, 1999 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00 p.m. 

NFL 
Moss leads Vikings past Buccaneers 
Rams 38, Bengals 10 
At Cincinnati, Az-Zahir Hakim tied a Rams record by scoring four touchdowns, three on pass­es from Kurt Wanrnr, the fourth on an 84-yard punt return. Hakim had touchdown catches of 9 and 51 yards in the first half and an 18-yarder in the third quarter. 
Warner, a former Arena Football passer, became the first quarterback in the last 50 years to throw three touchdown passes in each of' his first three ....._ starts. He went 17-for-21 for 310 yards, improving his passer rating for the season to 125. 
Isaac Bruce had six catches for 152 yards for the Hams (3­0). 
The Bengals (0-4) became the first NFL franchise to lose 100 games in the 1990s, breaking their tie at 99 with the Hams. 
Cowboys 35, Cardinals 7 
Host Dallas got sor.ne revenge against the team that knocked it out of last season's playolTs. 
Raghib lsmail's 63-yard touchdown catch sparked the Cowboys (3-0), then defensive end Greg Ellis went 98 yards with a fumble return. 
Arizona (1-3) continued to struggle, falling behind 21-0 for the second time this season and committing five turnovers. Jake Plummer threw three more interceptions, increasing his league-worst total to 12. Dallas has now beaten Arizona in 1 7 of the last 19 meetings. 
Ellis' game-sealing score was his second in two games. He also had an 87-yard intercep­tion return in a 24-7 victory over Atlanta. 
Jaguars 17, Steelers 3 
Jacksonville (3-1) won for the first time in five visits to Pittsburgh as its defense got two safeties to outscore Pittsburgh's stumbling offense. The Steelers (2-2) have lost four straight at home, their longest streak since 1970. 
Both safeties came on hits against Kordell Stewart. Mark Brunell also threw a short touchdown pass and Mike Hollis hit two field goals. But both offenses struggled. 
Patriots 19, Browns 7 
Terry Glenn overcame two costly first-half fumbles with a club-record 13 receptions for 214 yards at Cleveland. lie caught a short pass from Drew Bledsoe and turned it into a 54­yard TD on the first play of the fourth quarter as New England (4-0) finally pulled away from the expansion Browns. 
Cleveland (0-4) took its first lead of the season on a 64-yard hookup by rookins Tim Couch and Kevin Johnson. But they couldn't stop Bledsoe, who was 28-for-42 for 389 yards. 
Bears 14, Saints 10 
Shane Matthews found Curtis Conway for two touchdowns in the last 1:48. Matthews con­nected with Conway on a ?-yard pass with seven seconds left, bringing Bears fans, whu had been booing a quarter earlier, to their feet. Offensive tackle Blake Brockermeycr went to tlrn corner of the end zone and screamed at the fans in celebra­tion as Saints coach Mike Ditka threw his clipboard in disgust. . 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 4, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Brown keeps Irish defense rock solid 
Brown had some difficulty

By MIKE CONNOLLY adjusting to her new defensive 
Associare Sporrs Editor 
role but with the arrival of Waldrum and his four-back 

If you took at quick look at thfl defensive alignment has helpedIrish line up, you might look her. past Kara Brown. Standing just "It's been hard but I have had 
5-foot-2, Brown is not the the help of the coac:hes and this 
quickest, the strongest or the formation that we are runningfaster player on the Irish roster. this fall lets me get forward But once you see her play, you more," she said. 
quickly understand why she is Her offensive instincts a.re still such an important part of the visible in her defensive play.Irish defense. Against Villanova she set up a 
The outside defensive back goal by Meotis Erikson and challenges every ball in her picked up a goal of her own late area and plays physical with in the game. She now has three 
players who have height and assists and one goal on the yearweight advantages over her. for five points. Her intensity and skill have Having the offensive capabili­
allowed her to start all 83 
ties of a former midfielder on games she has played in a Irish defense is an asset to the Irish,uniform. according to Waldrurn. 
"She's one of the hardest "She is so good at going for­

players we have on our team," ward because she is a former Irish head coach Randy midfielder." he said. "She is so Waldrum said. "That's some­comfortable ·coming off the thing that is contagious. When backline and helping with the they see her out there sliding attack." and digging balls from players and when she wins head balls 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer Defensive back Kara Brown has used her skill and intensity to become a cornerstone on the Irish defense. 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 24 
taken over sole control of first place in the division with a 4-0 victory. 
Heft again opened the scoring for the Irish in the 11th minute off of assists from Ashley Dryer and Jenny Streiffer. After Heft's goal. however, the Wildcats held the Irish scoreless for the remainder of the half. 
After a goal in the 51st minute by Heft, the Irish scored their most impressive goal of the weekend. Erikson passed the ball to senior Kara Brown. who dribbled down the left sideline. Brown sent a high hard pass tlying across the box to Erikson who headed the ball into tlrn net for her sixth goal of the season, 
"I just ran onto it and gave it a cross," Brown said about t.he goal. "Meotis did a great job running into the box and head­ing it. That was awesome." 
Brown added a goal of her own in the 81st minute whrm she fired a shot that the goalie couldn't handle and slipped through her hands and into the net. The goal was Brown's first of the year and gave her f'ive points on the season. 

when she isn't the tallest player on the team, it's contagious for the rest of the players." 
Brown's teammates notice her tenacity, according to fresh­man defender Vanessa Pruzinsky. 
"She is a very aggressive play­er and I think it effects the whole team to see her play," she said. "I think it picks up everyone else's play and aggression." 
Brown enjoys her physical reputation and thrives on her tenacity. 
"I really like being intense and being tenacious out there," she said. "So I like the physical games." 
Earlier in the season, injuries and inexperience kept the Irish back-line in a state of limbo. In the opening game against North Carolina, the Irish started fresh­men Nancy Mikacenic and Pruzinsky along with junior captain Kelly Lindsey and Brown. Lindsey, however, injured her knee against the Tar Heels and has not returned to the lineup full time until recently. 
Senior captain Jen Grubb was moved to the back line from the midfield to fill in for Grubb but the departure of midfield Anne Makinen open a hole in the midfield. Mikacenic moved to the midfield to fill in for Makinen. 
Throughout all the turmoil, 

however. Brown has stepped up 
her play and been a steady 
presence on the Irish backline. 
"I felt I had to step up a little 

but we have so many talented 
players that whoever· we put in 
there, we are able to work 
together," she said. 
"I think she has been great for us," Waldrum said. "I think she is the best outside back in the conference. I hope the other coaches recognize that. She has just been rock-solid for us." 
Despite the fact that she is 
such a solid defensive player for 
the Irish, ,she began her colle­
giate career as a midfielder. 

Since she didn't make the 
switch to defense until after her 
sophomore year, the transition 
to the back line was difficult for 
Brown. 
"It was a hard transition but I 
do whatever I have to do for the 
team," she said. "If that helps 
us win a national championship 
that's what I have to do." 

Notre Dame Alum and GE Chief Financial Officer Keith Sherin 
(Class of 1981) 

Discuss ''GE's Growth Initiatives for the New Millennium" 
October ,5th 3:45 -5:00pm ] : : : , Jordan·Auditorium , . ,-\ :, 
. ' 

Fmd Out How e-Business, Quality and Globalization are Fueling the Growth of "America's Most Admired Company*" 
Our Businesses: 
. 
GE Aircraft Engines 

. 
GE Appliances 

. 
GE Capital Services 




We're 
. GE Industrial Systems 

Interviewing
. 
GE Lighting 


. 
GE Medical Systems Oct. 27th-28th 


. NBC 

. 
GE Plastics 

. 
GE Power Systems 


. 
GE Transportation Systems 


If a Challenging Position, Continuous Development and Broad Growth Opportunities Interest You, Sign-up to Interview For: 
• 
Financial Management Leadership Program 

• 
Edison Engineering Development Program 

• 
Operations Management Leadership Program 

• 
Technical Sales Leadership Program 

• 
Information Management Leadership Program 


Learn about us at 

www.gecareers.com 

We bring good things to life. 
1----------------------'-------------­
GE Aircraft Engines• GE Appliances• GE Capital Se,vices • GE Corporate Research and Development• GE Industrial Systems GE Information Se,vices • GE lighting• GE Medical Systems• GE Plastics• GE Power Systems· GE Supply· GE Transportation Systems· NBC Fortune® Maga,ine *311/99 


Monday, October 4, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
LPGA 

Sorenstam wins Albany Classic 

CJmbraciny I.he season, 
while indulging in the festivity of the harvest. 'Sor_i~'s introduces dining in the true spirit of Notre Dame. 
Presenting menus that compliment the fall season ", -:Vith the finest foods it has to offer. Be our guest -f~~t Sorin's and celebrate a change in dining, 
, Wisit us within The Morris Inn. 
Please Recycle THE OBSERVER 




Hamburger
-eHelper 
..:..

Sales Management T---..10pen Information Session 
Sponsored by The. Undergraduate Marketing Club Tuesday October 5th Morris Inn's Notre Dame Room 7: 15-8:45pm 
·Meet numerous General Mills employees and ND alumni ·Learn about Sales in the next millennium •Food, fun & prizes 


Associated Press 

NEW ALBANY, Ohio 
Solid with everything but her putter until the closing holes, Annika Sorenstam withstood a challenge from Mardi Lunn to shoot a iinal-round 66 Sunday and win the New Albany Golf Classic. 
Sorenstam had just three bogeys in the tournament and birdied four of the final seven holes to finish at 19-under-par 
269. Her 6-under-par final round followed rounds of 68, 69 and 66. The victory, her second or the year, was worth $150,000 from the inaugural tournament's $1 million purse. 
Last year's player of the year parred six holes in a row after building·a three-stroke lead with a birdie at the par-3 fifth hole. Lunn, playing in the 
same twosome, pulled even with three birdies over that span. 
At the 398-yard, par-4 12th hole -which ranked as the hardest hole on the course -Sorenstam 's middle-iron approach landed on the front of the green and rolled within 2 l/2 feet of the cup. 
After lipping out or narrowly missing short birdie putts on the three previous holes, she holed the putt to take the lead. 
Sorenstam skirted trouble on the next hole when her drive went well right of the fairway and into the trees lining the par-5 13th. She was able to salvage par by slicing a shot into the fairway, finding the green in regulation and two­putting from the front of the green. 
The LPGA's leading money 
winner three of the last four years, Sorenstam clinched with birdies at 14, 15 and 16. She hit a 15-footer at the 14th coaxed in an uphill 3-footer at No. 15 and made a 5-footer at 16. 
Sorenstam had torched thr, front nine the first three days of the tournament, playing it in 12-under while mustering just 1-under on the back nine. But in tlrn final round, she was 2­under on the front side and 4­under on the back. 
After moving into the tie with her birdie at the ninth hole, Lunn parred eight of the nine remaining holes -missing four birdie putts inside 15 feet. She shot a final-round 67 for a 16-under 272. 
Emilflfl Klein shot 67, includ­ing a birdie on the final hole, to take third at 12 under. 

MAJOR : Undergraduate Business Administration, Marketing, Economics, Liberal Arts SALES MANAGEMENT INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE DRESS: Casual 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 4, 1999 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles place fourth at Goshen College 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Sport Writer 
The cold, wet weather on Saturdav afternoon did not stop the· Saint Mary's cross country team from running some of their best times during their meet at Goshen College, The Belles placed fourth out of nine teams. Bethel College placed first, followed by Adrienne and Hillsdale col­leges. 
Bridget Nugent, who had not yet run this season, led the Belles. She placed 22nd overall with a time of 20 minutes, 49 seconds. Close behind, Genevieve Yavello placed 23rd with a time of 20:54. In 22nd place, senior Krista Hildebrand had a time of 21:02, a career 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
points in taking third. Notre Dame was only five points behind co-champions Michigan and Georgetown. 
"We beat a team that was ranked ahead of tis, and almost beat two teams that were
-ranked well ahead of us," said men's head coach Joe Piane. "I think we can do significantly better. We need to beat Michigan at districts." Junior Ryan Shay earned his second individual title of the year, becoming the first Notre Dame runner to win the men's competition since 1964. "It's not like we haven't had some awfully good cross coun­
best. Melissa Miller finished 24th with a time of 21:18, while freshmen Megan Tenney and Catherine Ward finished 29th and 33rd, respectively. 
"I was happy with [my race]." Yavello said, "It was my best so far. !Nugent] and I ran side by side the whole race which helped a lot and was a good strategy. During my race I was thinking about staying right up with [Nugent] and moving up on the other runners one by one." 
"It was a really Oat course, so it was fast," Tenney remarked. "I feel the team did really well considering it was raining and cold outside. WP all got our best times,~ 
The Belles will race again on Friday, Oct. 8 at Benedictine University in Illinois. 
try runners at Notre Dame," said Piane. "Shay has the poten­tial to be an all-American and finish highly at the nationals." 
Shay ran 23:52 in the 8K meet, outdistancing Jay Cantin of Michigan by only two seconds at the end. 
"A lot of the guys in the race l hadn't competed with yet this season, so I really didn't know what to expect," said Shay. "When it came down to the last mile, I felt really good and hadn't exhausted myself. I was confident in my kick and knew if it came down that, I could win." 
Sophomore Luke Watson placed seventh for the Irish, fol­lowed by sophomore Marc Striowski in 16th, senior John Dudley in 19th and senior Sean McManus in 43rd. 
MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER 

Tuesday, October 5, 1999 
7:00 PM University of Notre Dame Lower Level, Continuing Education 
Meet Representatives from: 
• 
Investment Banking 

• 
Private Wealth Management 



www.msdw.com/carnpus#recruiting 
Morgan Stanley-Dean Witter is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Braun leads Irish past Orange 
By KERRY SMITH Spotts \Vtitcr 
Freshman forward Erich 
. Braun came up big offensively Saturday night to lift the Notre Dame men's soccer team to a 2-0 win over Big East rival Syracuse. 
Braun, the leading scorer for thA Irish this season. knocked in both goals to bring his overall tally for the year to live. 
With the win, the Irish move to a 5-4-1 overall record and are 2-1-1 in Big East play. The win marks the second straight victory for the Irish and gives further evidence to prove that the scoring drought., which has plagued the squad for much of the first half of the season, is over. 
Despite the shutout victory, the Orangemen provided some tough competition, battling thfl Irish to a scoreless tie in the first half. The Irish we.re in control for most of the game, but despite outshooting the Orangemen 8-5 in the first 45 minutes, were unable to come up with a score. 
Braun and the Irish turned on the heat in the opening minutes of the second half to . take the lead. Midfielder Alan Lyskawa set up the goal when he delivered a leading pass to Braun at the midfield. Braun took control of the ball and raced down the sideline towards the net. 
Syracuse goalkeeper Kevin Bacher came out of the goal in an attempt to thwart Braun's one-on-on.e attempt, but Braun chipped in a shot from eight yards out to score the game-winner less than two minutes into the second half. 

Braun added another goal to secure the win with four min­utes remaining in the contest. Taking advantage of a loose ' ball in the midfield and dodg­ing the Syracuse defenders, he took the ball down the field 25 yards untouched and deliv­ered a shot into the back of the net for the unassisted score. 
The Orangemen went on attack midway through the second half, challenging the Irish lead with a flurry of shots on goal, but came up dry. Notre Dame goalkeeper Gerick Short delivered his fourth shutout of the season for the Irish, coming up with six saves on the game. 
Bacher made seven stops for the Orangemen in the losing effort, as Syracuse dropped to 3-6-0 overall and 1-3-0 in thP Big East. 
The win marks the first time this year that the Irish have notched back-to-back wins. 
The Irish look to extend their winning steak to three on Tuesday when they host IUPUI in a non-conference match-up. 


. 
Work in an internship 

. 
Study Public Affairs 

. 
Fulfill Fine Arts Requirement 


Now 
'1 ~pplicatJo4.

~\~'C ~r­
\,'b, Fall 2000 ~­
& 
Spring 2001 
Deadline -Nov. 5th 

-¾Washington ~Semester ,,,piogia,m 
Open to students from ALL Colleges 
Come to the informational meeting 

.. \ Tuesday, October 5th 
I~~­

l 
I"-~ 
' 
7:30 p.m. 126 DeBartolo Hall 


Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Peri.E.Arnold.l@nd.edu 


• 
Monday, October 4, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES 
BILLAMEND
Fox TROT 
NO... 
_j 
"~ 



Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
--------~-----------------------------------------~----------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE~ OBSERVER 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 12th graders Abbr. 
1 Not so much 
34 Sailor's "stop!" 5 The "A" 1n N.EA 
36 Cpl. or sgt. g Spelunker 37 Came to a perch 14 Very much 38 Beatles transport
15 Partner of potatoes 42 Nothing but 43 Sun, e.g. 
16 Martini garnish 44 Wound up 
11 Neighbor of 45 Springsteen'sSenegal "Born in the 
18100% 
19 Actress Braga of 46 Aspen attire "Kiss of the 49 Hair stittener Spider Woman" 
50 Gorilla 20 Jef1n Harlow, 
51 Stiffly neat 

e.g. 
53 Popular apple 23 Goodyear 
61 Put up with product 

s2Chunks of 24 Grassland history 25 Gift decoration 63 Filly's father 28 Sawbuck 64 Had a crush on 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
beam.1 @nd.edu 
HOROSCOPE 
65 Tng function 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
66 Additionally 

DAY: Anne Rice, Armand Assante, 
Susan Sarandon, Charlton Heston, Jackie Collins 
67 Skeptical 
68 Popular 

Happy Birthday: Stop sitting on
sneakers 

the fence and get back in the game. 
69 O'Neal of "Love 

It's OK to play ii safe, but let's not be Story" 
ridiculous You have what it takes to get ahead. so stop second-guessing yourself and start pushmg for the 
DOWN 

kind of results you've been day­dreaming about. The fast lane is 
1 Mary's follower, 

where you belong this year Get mov­
1n verse 

ing. Your numbers: 3, 10, 26, 33, 37, 42 ARIES (March 21-Apri.l 19): New
2 Airline to Tel AVIV 

developments at work appear to be
3 Like Lindbergh's 

better than anticipated. You have
flight 

used your energetic nature to inspire 
4 Be frugal 

confidence and enthusiasm in others. 
Be prepared to invest the money you make 00000 
5 Current unit 
6 Deli sandwich 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
7 Plant used in 

Don't overdo it. You need to enjoy 
making poi 

yourself as well. Too much work and no play will result in not only fatigue and frustration, but loneliness as well. 
8 Stern's opposite 
s Treat like a baby 
00 
10 Waikiki welcome 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make major gains at work if you stick to your guns and concentrate on 
11 Tarzan's 
transport 

your own projects. Be careful not to
12 Like Darth Vader 

spend too much on entertainment or 

13 Down-to-earth Puzzle by Gregory E. Paul 21 "Same here!" 
33 Man of ­
aa Blo ¦ 11om 
(Superman) 25 Louisiana marsh 
35 Underhanded 26 Pizzeria fixtures 
37 "What --you 
27 When repeated. getting at?" a Washington 39 No longer city asleep 
29 Gives the 40--Lanka brushoff, maybe 41 Storage area 30 Toxic 46 Rapid compound. for 
47 Higher ground short 
48Van Gogh 31 Broken arm painting that set holder an auction 32 Post-wash cycle record in 1987 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one arademic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 

----------------------------~ 
Address 

----------~----------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
clothing purchases. 0000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): You 
so Puff snake 56 Drawer site 
will be upset if you recently loaned 52 Scrooge. e.g. 57 Cleveland's lake 
someone money. Do not feel obligat­ed to donate large sums of money.
53 Chutzpah 58 In need of a 
Your tendency to overspend will 
shampoo 

cause worry later on. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It would 
54 Instrument that's 
blown into 59--Major 

be best to get ahead today by doing a 55 In person 60 Witnessed 
little overtime. Concentrate on your career objectives for best results. You may find thal family members are unpred,ctable. 000 · 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sign
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

Birthday Baby: You were born with the ability to simplify. Your innate 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
understanding of others gives you an edge when it comes to dealing with 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
unsavory situations. Your advice will be highly regarded, and you will make a 
difference to those you meet throughout your life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
\() 1g99 Univt'r..~1 Prt.>S'.. Svndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
up for programs that offer a unique approach to philosophy. You will veam to travel to exotic destinations. You need a change of pace. The expe­riences you have will spark wonder­ful ideas. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take advantage of a good financial deal being offered to you. You must act on your gut feelings. You can put your house on the market or make changes to your home that will increase its value. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23•Nov. 21): You will meet individuals who interest you both physically and mentally. Opportunities to ~et into creative pro­jects will be satistying and profitable. Look for a good deal. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: It is best not to let too many in on your senet plans. Expect to have problems while traveling if you haven't take.n ..proper care of your vehicle. Keep.,·our mind on what you're doing. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Do something .about your appear­ance. You need •to make a change. A new hairstyle or.toning up your body will help raise your •elf-e,teem and give you the confidence you need. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have an option to make changes in your business and personal life. Be careful; things may not be as good as you might think elsewhere. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Friends are likely to introduce you to some interesting individuals. Busi­ness or emotional/artnerships can be formed. You nee to push the ideas you've been mulling over in your mind. 000 


.. 
Irish on Ice 

The Irish hockey team defeated Wilfrid Laurier, .4-1. in a Friday night exhibition match. 
PORTS 
page 19 


CROSS COUNTRY 
Deeter, Shay sweep up at Notre Dame Invite 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN A.ssiorant Sports Editor 
The Irish cross country squads cleaned up the cori1peti­tion in the adidas/Notre Dame
-
Invitational Friday, capturing both individual titles and the women's team title, and placing third in the men's Learn compe­tition. "I think it shows we can com­pete with some of the best teams in the country." said women's head coach Tim Connelly. "Going in, we Lhought we were a pretty good team. We just wanted to find out how good." The Notre Dame women's squad scored 57 points en route to winning the champi­onship. The Irish were well ahead of second-place Missouri, which tallied 73, and third-place Oregon, which had 115 points. "That's what we wanted to do," said freshman Jennifer Handlev. "We knew there was major competition there. It was really exciting for us to win." Runner for runner, each of Notre Dame's top five was ahead of Missouri's top five fin­ishers. The top five for the Irish finished first, third, sixth, 17th and 30th: while the Tigers' five best were second, fifth, sev­enth, 24th and 35th. Going into the meet, Notre Dame was ranked 14th in the nation, while Missouri was 13th. Senior all-American JoAnna Deeter brought home her third individual victory in the '.\Jotre 
Dame Invitational of her four­year career. She completed the 5K race in 16 minutes, 52 sec­onds. • 
"JoAnna's one of the best runners in the country and she keeps going out and proving that," said Connelly. "Hopefully, she'll get some good competi­tion in the next couple weeks and _w,~ can see just how good she 1s. 
Missouri's Anna Cullingsrud took second behind Deeter. Notre Dame senior Alison Klemmer was third overall in l 7 :21, and Handley finished the course in 17:36 to place sixth. Seniors Erin Luby and Patty Hice, in her first meet after returning from a spring back injury, rounded out the top five for the Irish. 
The team will take a week off from competition before head­ing to the pre-national meet in Bloomington, Ind., on October 
16. That meet will give a better indication of where the Irish can expect to finish in the NCAA Invitational in November. Notre Dame hopes to finish in the top 10. 
"That's the goal for the year," said Connelly. "A whole lot of good things have to happen between now and the national meet. We need to keep every­body healthy, close up the gap between our fourth and fifth runners, and move up our sixth and seventh runners. I think it's a realistic goal." 
The men's team were not far off of first place, scoring 86 
see IRISH/page 22 


WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish shut out Big East competition over weekend 
while allowing Villanova just much more than that," senior about that right now," she said. getting production from his top By MIKE CONNOLLY four shots. captain Jen Grubb said. "After "It would be nice to have it but players. Associate Spons Editor Georgetown came· into the last weekend we were really right now I am not thinking "It was great to see because 
game against Notre Dame high wondering if we had turned it about that." we have had a lot of spread out 
The weather was cold this off an offensive explosion around or if it was just two good Heft's third goal of the game scoring," he said. "It was good to weekend, but it couldn't slow against the Howard Bison. The games." came when she battled the Hoya see Meotis and Heft get some down the red-hot Irish offense Hoyas crushed their inter-city Jenny Heft led the Irish goalkeeper in the air for a ball. goals. Heft was the one who car­as the women's soccer team rival 8-0. The Irish, however, attacks with three goals. Her Heft got a piece 'of the ball and ried the load last year. We cer­picked up 
shut down the Hoya attack com­sixth career hat trick moved her the keeper to score the seventh tainly don't want to have to rely two Big East pletely, not allowing a single into first place all-time for Irish Irish goal on the night. on one player but it was good to victories shot on goal. Despite the fact hat tricks passing Monica "We both just went up and see her get some goals for her 
o v e r that the Irish have been playing Gerado and Rosella Guerrero. challenged for it," Heft said. "J confidence." Georgetown well lately, Waldrum was sur­Heft added two more goals got a ,piece of it and she went The Irish domination contin­on Friday, prised that the Irish stopped the against Villanova to give her down. ued on Sunday against the 10-0, and Hoyas so completely. eight goals on the season and 68 Meotis Erikson and Grubb also Villanova Wildcats. Villanova Villanova on "I certainly never thought that for her career. She now stands tallied multiple goal games for entered ·the game with a 9-2 Sunday, 4-we'd come in and not allow a just five goals behind the Irish the Irish with two a piece. Anne record and tied for first in Big 
0. Heft shot on goal," he said. "I thought record for career goals held by Makinen, Lindsey Jones and East Mid-Atlantic Division. 
T h e we'd be in pretty good shape if Cerado with 73. Her shot at the Kate Morre! added one goal When the Wildcats left Alumni defense performed just as well we played our game, but I didn't record does not motivate her to each. Waldrum was pleased Field, however, the Irish had as the offense, managing to hold expeet to hold them like we did." seore, though, according to Heft. with the varied sources of Georgetown without a shot "We couldn't have asked for "I don't really even think offense while at the same time 
see W. SOCCER/page 20 

• 
vs. Michigan Golf vs. Albion College 
s,

Tuesday, 4 p.m. at Kalamazoo College ,, .., Wednesday, 4 p.m.
SPORTS »> ~ 
vs. Arizona State 

.... Tuesday, 7:30 p.m . 
{I 
Saturday, 1 :30 p.m. 

ATA ~­
vs. IUPUI Volleyball vs. Michigan
'j, 

Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. vs. Michigan ~ Thursday, 7:05 p.m. 
GLANCE • 

Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. 



