
Good movie hunting? 
Recruiting a crowd 
Matt Damon and Ben Affleck reunite in the 
Thursday
'Coach D' thanks studentfans, asks for help 
new film "Dogma." Check out the review and 
filling the JACC during this year's basketball 
this week's Top 10 movie list. 
season. 
NOVEMBER 18, 
Scene . page 15 
Viewpoint . page 13 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII N0.55 ~ HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Bishops vote to tighten control over Catholic colleges 
tut.ions. It includes controver­"Last night we accepted
• Bishops vote 

sial mandates that the majori­your suggestion we make sure223 to 31 in ty of trustnes and theology we say how much we need favor Ex Corde professors are Catholic "to the and appreciate non-Catholic 
extnnt possible," according to members or colleges and uni­
implementation 
Bishop John Leibrccht of versities. We consider them Springfield, full partners," Mo .. c:hairman said Leibrecht
Ry COLLEEN McCARTHY 
"It's not euerything
of Urn Ad lloc in response to

Wa,lungmn C:orrcspnnc.lenr Committee on we need, but it~,;; a concerns that 
the implemen­step in the right the mandate
WASIIINGl'ON 
tation of Ex would alienate

In an effort to "maintain, direction. " 
Corde. theology pro­
prns11rvn and guarantee the 
"Ex Corde fessors and
Catholic identity of Catholir. 

Ecclcsiae does Bishop John Lelbrecht non-Catholic
higlrnr education." the 
offer a con­members of the

National Conf'nrnncn of Springfield, Mo., diocese
structive direc­academic com-
Catholic Bishops (NCCBJ voted tion for the munity.
ovt>rwlwlmingly in favor of tlrn 
ruture," said Leibrecht. "It's Questions or whether theproposnd implnnwntation of not everything we need. but increased role of _bishops
Ex Corde Ecclnsian it's a step in the right direc­would threaten institutional
WPdnnsday. 
tion." and academic freedom wereThn nation's bishops votnd In his opening remarks raised frequently throughout
22:~-3 l to implrnnnnt the doc­bnl'orn opening the floor for the nine-year discussion of the 
u nrnnt originally issued on 
debate, Lcibrncht said he and document. In a Jan. 30, 1999,Aug. If>, 1990, by Popn .John 
his committee members tried issue of America, University
Paul 11. which will have a 
to take into consideration president Father Edward
dirnct impact on the way the 
comments of bishops during Malloy and former Boston
235 U.S. Catholic coll<iges and 
their final committee meeting
univ,irsitifis govern their insti­on Tuesday night. see VOTE/page 6 
and dean of faculty at Saint
. ND, SMC faculty, 

Mary's. She said the legalisticadministrators document was not the best way respond to to bring the C.atholic schools 
closer to the Church. "I don't
Conference vote 
think you ever build a relation­ship based on legislative acts." University president Father
By TIM LOGAN 
Edward Malloy had repeatedly
News Editor 
criticiwd thn proposal for being too legalistic and was at tlrn 
Administrators and theolo­bishops' conference this week 
gians at Notre Dame and Saint working to defeat it. After the Mary's generally disapproved of 
vote, however, he pledged to 
the bishops' overwhelming vote focus on implementing the aims 
for the proposed implementa­
of Ex Corde. 
tion of Ex Corde Ecclesiae 
"At its core, this process is Wednesday, but maintained about furthering the vital and 
that it is too early to predict the 
distinctive mission of Catholic 
vote's ramifications. 
higher education, an aim which Many Catholic academics said all involved can sham," he said the vote should be delayed to in a prepared statement. "The allow more time for dialogue on University of Notre Damn will 
the implementation and, per­maintain its close, cordial and 
haps, to cut out some of its 
constructive relationship with 
legalistic language. Ultimately, our local ordinary, Bishop John however, their efforts were for D'Arcy."
naught. 
Reaction on campus was not 
"I'm disappointed," said Karen Ristau, vice president 
see REACTION/page 6 



University asks licensees for full public disclosure 
ByTIM LOGAN New, Editor 
In an u1wxp1•cted move, the Univ1ffsity ashd its 2:{:i licensml apparnl manufac­turers to publicly disclose the locations of farlorit\S whom Notrn Dame products arn 111adn. 
Notn· llan11• is tlrn 14th univnrsity in tlw country to ask its licensees for full puhlic disclosure, which has bncome a leading dPmand of' student activists 11alionwid1!. 
William Iloyt!, chair of tlm University's Task Form on Anti-Sweatshop Initiatives, calls llw movn a rnaffirrnation or Notre llanw's strong stance against labor abus­es in ma1111facturi11g licensnd apparnl. 
"l'uhlic disclosurn has become an imp11rla11t isstw in Uw national dnbatc to a lot of ptwpln," I loy11 said. "I hope !the n~quost] will dt'mo11stratc tlw Univnrsity's commitment to the sweatshop issue." 
111 March, Notn~ Danw bPcame the lirst university to hin~ an independent 11rm, l'ricciwatnrhoustiCoopPrs. to monitor con­ditions at lic(111scd l'actori()S. It also creat­ed a Lask force to sludy I.he issue and rnc­OlllltlOJHI 11 poliry 11, dral with labnr abus­
()S. 
This lawst rnqunst was a recommenda­tion ol' that Task ForcP, according to lloyn. StudM1t activists praisnd the movn, call­ing it a rtw<1rsal of' tlw administration's pnivious position. 

"We're rt\ally happy," said Aaron KrnidHr or the Progressive Studnnt Alliance. in approximately 14th place. It's a big Experts in tlrn field of labor righL'> also said. "Having a code of conduct is nrnan­
But ai tlm samo time, thny asked the rnversal, but we have a long way to go." said the decision was a step in the right ingless unless you have monitoring. And Univnrsily to Lakn an even stronger Given past statements by University direction. If companies are going to you can't monitor factories if you don't stancn on tlw issun. administrators, the move was unexpect­enforce thflir r.odes of conduct, good know where they am." 
"Our administration likns to preach ed, but perhaps should nol have been. monitoring is required, said Father Oliver In February, University vicn prnsidcrnt that Notrn Dume is leading the fight "It definitely comes as a surprise," Williams, an associate professor of man­and general counsel Carol Kaesehier told a~ainst swPatshops," said ,Joe Smith of Kreider said. "It also seemnd inevitable agmnent who specializes in labor nthics. The Observer that Notre Dame would not tlw I'S/\. "But in l'act this decision puts us because other universities arc doing it," "I think it's absolutely essential," he 
, see DISCLOSURE/page 4 


--------------..------------------------·-------------------------,­
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, November 18, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A Different Route 
So there we were: my roommate and Iwere partaking in the rare, wonderful experience of eating dinner oIT campus last Friday night. We decided on a restaurant, which will go unnamed, that sells oblong-shaped sandwiches and whose motif resembles a form of under­ground transportation. 
As we ate our sandwiches, we couldn't escape an over­whehning feeling. It hit us when we first walked into the restaurant -like a wave of hot air, suffocating our souls. This stilling feeling, we realized, was apathy -an utter lack of concern for whoever was in the restau­rant at the time. 
We had apparently intur­rupted break time for the two employees that night. As the only two customers in the place, we had broken up the no-one's-in-here-so­let's-slack party. How dare we? 
Who works with such indifference? I'm so sorry, Employee X, that I disturbed your break, but my roommate and I are hungry -make me a sandwich. And put a smile on that scowling face of yours while you do it. 
So there we were: a couple of friends and I felt like breaking up the monotony of our everyday lives with a game of raquetball. We walked to the Rock whistling, excited just to not be reading or analyzing or interpreting something. 
We were stripped of our glee when we remem­bered the fun new way of getting into the Rock. We each swiped our IDs and struggled with the confusing, annoyingly pretentious computer check-in. 
Was this really necessary? It would take noth­ing to sign my name and tell the person at the desk, "We're going to play raquetball." Instead, the three of us got a patronizing account of how to properly swipe our cards and find the right buttons to push. 
Instead of saving time, what that computer really does is run our lives. It's a statement: "LOOK AT ME! I'M SO TECHNOLOGICAL AND IMPORTANT!" 
That computer has taken the human element out of relating to people on campus. Instead of a "Hello, how are you?" we're hit with "Swipe the other side, please." 
It has, simply, given the Rock a sense ofhuman apathy. It's as if to say, "I, the person at the desk, do not care if you're here. But hey, this computer here does." 
We shouldn't let technology make us apathetic or, even worse, lazy. Even if you're behind a desk, checking people in, find a way to make the time enjoyable. 
My roommate takes different routes to and from class each day. When she first told me this, I attributed it to her frequent forgetfulness and sporadic personality. Then I realized she's bril­liant. 
She goes a different way each day to experience as much of Notre Dame as she can. Each new route is a chance to see a friend or to discover a new favorite place to study. It's a way to spice things up, change her pace and outlook on cam­pus, even life. 
So don't just point to the computer and say, "Swipe." Don't just put the bread on top and hand me my change. 
Don't be lazy with your life. Avoid apa~y. Smile more. Take a different route. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Christine Kraly 
Associate News Editor 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Tim Logan Julie Hamilton 
Erica Thesing Graphics Matthew Smith Katie Kennedy Christine Kraly Production 
Sports Lauren Berrigan Molly McVoy Lab Tech Viewpoint Kevin Dalurn 
A.J. Boyd 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ""Ctpt during cum and vac:irion period,. The Observer i, a member ofthe Associattd Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME 
Thursday 

. Lecture: Tristan Borer, "Debating Definitions," C­103 llesburgh Center, 
12:30 p.m. 
. AcoustiCafe: Lafortune Student Center, 9 p.m. to 
11:45 p.m. 
Friday 
. Film: Cushing Auditorium, 8 p.m. and 
10:30 p.m. 

. Theatre: "The Water Engine," wr.itten by David Mamet, Washington Hall, ticket info at Lafortune Ticket Office 
Saturday Sunday 
. Film: "Life Is Beautiful," . Spanish Mass: In the Snite Museum of Art, 7:30 Stanford-Keenan Chapel, 
p.m. and 9 p.m. 1:30 p.m. 
. Bo~k Signing: Mary . Concert: Notre Dame Dowling, author of "Grotto Brass Ensemble, in the Stories," at the Hammes Basilica of the Sacred Bookstore, 10:30 a.m. to Heart, 8 p.m. 
1:00 p.m. 

Michigan protesters stage protest 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Nearly 200 black students, many with duct tape or gags placed over their mouths, stood in silent protest Tuesday, creating a single-file line around the the main administration building at the University of Michigan. The group met later in Trotter House to discuss the issues that spurred the silent protest, all of which center around how the University allegedly treats black students. The issues include curriculum, housing, access to University facilities, public safety, student services and police harassment, said Erin Gilbert, spokesperson for the group. "We're especially concerned with the lack of equity, advocacy and the absence of due process for African American stu­dents," Gilbert said, following the demonstration. "The African American student body is coming together across ideological and political lines." Although several University administrators gathered in front of the main buliding during the protest, stu­dents remained silent and did not speak with University administrators about their concerns. 
U. of Florida bans t-shirt sales 
-GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Feeding the energy and tension of the rivalry that will culminate Saturday at the University of Florida­Florida State football game, a bookstore across the street from campus started selling T-shirts that depict FSU wide receiver Peter Warrick as "The 1999 Heistman." The Florida Book Store sold more than 1,000 of the shirts that show a "Heistman" tro­phy complete with Dillard's bag in tow -a spoof of Heisman candidate Warrick's recent arrest after taking more than $400 in Dillard's clothing and pay­ing about $20. He pleaded guilty to petty theft. "It's not like he shot the president," reads the back of the $16.99 shirts -a reference to his comment shortly after the arrest, "It's not like I shot the president." After about a week of Heistman mania, however, the shirts were pulled from the shelves. The Florida Bookstore was contacted by the Collegiate Licensing Company and told that the Heistman image bore too close a likeness to the actual Heisman Trophy, vio­lating the trademark of the Downtown Athletic Club. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
New controversy over MP3s hits Dartmouth 
HANOVER, N.H. available illegally on his or her com­
"One approach is to go
Officials at Carnegie Mellon puter, they would be referred to the Universitv disconnected 71 students looking for violators, but deans' office for disciplinary action. from the· school's intranet for dis­Computer Services will investigate tributing copyright-protected mater­that's not usually what we activity on the network when a com­ial. including MP3 files, over the puter is commanding a dispropor­
do. It feels kind ofinvasive . .,
school network, College officials tionate amount of resources in viola­said. Punch Taylor tion of the "fair share" element of 
The Carnegie Mellon students the computer and network policy.
technical services director, Dartmouth
were disciplined after an October 18 Beyond that, Dartmouth does not random search of public files on 250 actively police the network, Taylor students' computers discoverr,d ille­Punch Taylor, director of tochnical said. c, gal MP3 music files available for services at Dartmouth University. "The main message we want to get access over the school's intranet. When complaints come in, out is that sharing MP3 files can get 
Although the distribution of MP3 Computer Services examines the you into some pretty hot water with files or other copyright-protected public files on the student's comput­the law," director of user communi­material is illegal under federal law, er. If illegal material is discovered, cations Bill Brawley said. no other school officials indicated the computer user is warned to Dartmouth's computer and net­that they have no plans to execute a remove the files from his or her work policy indicates that access to similar search. computer via BlitzMail. the network is a privilege that may 
"One approach is to go looking for So far, no further measures have be revoked if a community member violators, but that's not usually what been necessary. Theoretically, if a violates local, state, federal or school we do. It feels kind of invasive," said student continued to make MP3 files laws. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather•forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 18. 


Allanla 62 37 Fredonia 50 32 Orchard Park 48 32 Boston 54 31 Los Angeles 72 56 Philadelphia 57 31 

~ .._£f\)._.4.* ~ ,-a 
Buffalo 48 32 Miami 77 65 Pittsburgh 56 27

~~~,~/:..\ ·=•:"~{~~/ ;_-=-;_ "¥ ~ ~ 
Chicago 61 42 New Orleans 73 46 Seattle 50 39

ShoMrS T-storms R•in Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloucly 
Dallas 77 56 New York 56 34 Wash DC 60 32

Via Associalocl PreS> Graph/csNel 

Thursday, November 18, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Members discuss options for future of Dallow-ay's 
stonn, it will b11 t'ound and By KATIE MILLER us1!d in the new Dall(lways. Nt'ws Writer The llavor of Dalloways will be 
prosr.rvcd.'' 

Following the prescntation of' !hrnn options concnrning the In other BOG news: futurn of Dalloway's al last \V (\ d IW S da y 'S BU II r d O f . Mcm bnrs discussed tenta­Cov1i r n an c P m P nting, .I u Ii n tivn plans !'or an open merting l>uha. campus clubs commis­rngarding student opinion llll sionPr and a rcprt!s1intative the Notre Damn administra­f'ro111 thP llistorical lion 's attempt to restrict l'rnsPrvation Comrnitllw said advertising in The Observer. that the commitlcl' has rncom­"i\11 mnmbers of' BOG have nwndc•d a ll<'W clubhouse h<' rncr,ivr,d a letter f'rom Michellr, constructml. Krupa explitining the situation 
Duba prnscnt1:d the three Iwith the proµoscd administra­options rPgarding Dalloway's tive bani." said student body futuni to BO(;: moving the president Nancy Midden. "We 
clubhousP,  have  also  
ro11structing  b,wn spi,ak­ 
a 1rnw indti­p " 11 d 1• n L building or  "The I!islorical Presrrvalion Commillee  ing with I Observer managing  
111oving  tl11•  decided to recommPnd to  editor!  
art.ivilins that r II r r 1· n l I y takP 1,lan' in  HOG that a new clubhouse be built."  S h a n n o n Hyan," The loca­ 
l>allowavs  to  tion and tho  
a nnw 1"oca­tio11. "i\f'tl'r two  Julie Duba campus clubs commissioner  date are yet to be deter­mined.  

hours uf' dis­russion. th1• II istoriral l'rPSPrvalion Co111mil!P1' d1·1"idt!d Lo rncom­lllf'IHI to BOC that. a rww club­housP lw built," said lluba. 
ShP noLl'd Lh,1t an ano11y­mot1s donor gavP $250.000 to sponsor llrn construrtion. 
Cround for llH• new llalloway's is nxrwctl'd to bn hrok1\11 this spring. 
l'rps1•rving tlw historical tra­dition of tho original llalloways is a considnration in Urn proc'nss. Duba said. 
. "Tlwrn will lw a committee to dmtl with ttrn architecture of tlw rww building: them will be studnnt voices involvnd," said Duha. "SomPwhere in Dalloways, tlwrn is a corrrnr­
. llolidav dncoralions at Saint Mary's wern also discussed. Senior '\1 irlwllti Sametra appn arerl bd'orn BOG to ask for funding f,ir a Christmas trne to place on llw library balcony in an attempt to spice up Saint Mary's during the holidays. 
"It's low-cost and dnmands no work from you," Sametra said. "I spokn with thr, director of buildings and grc>unds, and it should only ('()St between $45-$55." .BOC approvnd the sponsorship. 
. Advertising club president Katie Candiano asked BOG for their en-sponsorship in bring­ing alumna!! presently working 

in advertising to Saint Mary's to spr.ak with students. · "It would he grnat for all advertising, communication, and marketing majors, really all majors," she said. "Lecturns could bo held in Haggar or Carroll Auditorium depending 


Pick up your a4t:l~s pep-rally hats at the Eck Center 


Today and Tomorrow 
in the Alumni Office 
on the lev(~l of interest; it would be open to all students." 
Plans for this nvent would be held next semester, possibly for women's month. Class of 2001 president Autumn Palacz said that the junior class had plans similar to those of the 
CORRECTION 
A photo in Wednesday's Observer was identified as Hoborto Job. The picture was actually of Father Michael Baxter, assistant pro­fessor of theology. 
The Observer regrel., the error. 
r:--·w,~..___.,. 
-,.~' 

STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 


ENTER.COM 
PURSUE JOB 

AND INTERNSHIP 
OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN 
THE GLOBE 
\ CampusCareHrCenter.com
I:,,.~ 

~.. The V>\?f/d~ largest campus job fair 




ATTENTION 
UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE 
advertising club. This co-spon­sorship was tabled with the idea that the junior class might co-sponsor this ,went with Urn advertising club. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 18, 1999 
STUDENT SENATE 

Reaction 
continued from page 1

Members discuss 
entirely negative. however. Law professor Gerard Bradley, a

bank, 24-hour space 
member of the Cardinal 
By FINN PRESSLY 
A,;siscanr News Editor 
A constitutional amend­ment. 24-hour space and now Key Bank fees topped the agenda at Wednesday night's meeting of thP Student Senate. 
Keough Hall senator Brian O'Donoghuc announced that on Dec. 1 the LaFortune Student Center branch of Key Bank will begin charg­ing a$5 fee to 
those cashing 

''The majority ofthe 
amendment to
checks without 

a Key Bank rectors did support reflect the change.
account. the push for more "It's not 
The senators 



Disclosure
24-hour space." 
really an issue then began wo can fight," debate the 
continued from page l 
actual content

O'Donoghue Steven Sanchez said, adding Siegfried senator of the amend­
disclose the locations of licensee 
ment, specifi­
that most area Key Banks will not even cash checks from non-account holders. 
He suggested that should students need to cash checks and are not members of either Key Bank or the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. they should try the Universitv Cashier in the Main Building. The cashier does. however. have a num­ber 0f stipulations regarding the amount of the check and by whom the check was written, he said. 
In other Senate news: 
. Before the meeting, the constitution originally referred to the senator's yearly requirement to attend a "predjudice reduction workshop." The amendment changed that wording to reflect the new name of the seminar: "Celebrating Diversity." 
Nevertheless. some sena­tors expressed discontent with the amendment. 
St. Edward's senator Paul Sladek called attention to the fact that an earlier letter had erroneously been assigned a docket number. Therefore, the docket num­ber for the matter currently 
ence of hall monitors in women's dorms. 
Overall, however, they found that rectors were in favor of expansion of more 24-hour space. 
"The majority of the rec­tors did support the push for more 24-hour space," sena­tor Sanchez said. 
The resolution was ulti­
and Saint Mary's. 

"We have nu idea what the implementation will be," Ristau said. "Everything is going to depend on the local bishops, and bishops are diffenmt." 
ln the case of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, D'Arcy has spo­ken out repeatedly on thi> need for a healthy dialogue between bishops and educators, and many feel such an atmosphere exists here already. 
Still, the possibilities created by the implementation proposal worry theologians on both cam­puses. 
'Tm concerned for tho future of Catholic higher education and how it may affect the futurn of Catholic womens' colleges like Saint Mary's," said Joe Incandela, chair of' the Saint Mary's religious studies depart­ment. 
lle said the vote may mak!' it more difiicult for the CollegP, to attract quality students and fac­ulty. Others agrred t!lat tho main impact this vote could have on Catholic schools would not bfl in tho way they opcratns, but on their academic reputa­tion. 
"The vote is likely to have more of an impact external to the University than internal,'' said thclogy professor Father Richard McRrien. "lt"s not going to he cmforcable internally. I think Father Malloy would agrcP. with that." 
McBrien expressed concern that the mandate would lend the impression that Notre Dame is answerable to outside, non· academic forces. II' that hap­prmed, he said, professors and graduate students in theology might stay away. 
on the floor was one number off. 
Parliamentarian Stephen Sanchez noted that the num­ber is simply a reference number, should future sena­tors wish to locate it quickly. 
"Just so you know, it doesn't matter what vou number it," he said. · 
Sladek, however. was not convinced. 
"As long as we're doing it. we may as well do it right,'' Sladek said. The authors agreed to re­number the 

Newman Society, a conservative Catholic group which has lob­bied fur a strict application of the document, supported the bishops' vote. 
'Tm pleased with the result," he said, but he was unsure what its ramifications would be. 
"It's bard to say what it means to Notre Dame," Bradley said. "But I'm sure the result is not gratifying to everyone at Notre Dame, and it's surely not gratifying to Father Malloy." 
Bradley was not the only one who was unsure what the vote would mean for Notre Dame said. ''Our position on that has not changed." 
Notre Dame's policy towards licensed manufacturers may continue lo change in the future, he said, as the Task force will continue to debate the issue. The group will pre­sent University president Father Edward Malloy with a set of rec­ommendations at the end of the semester, Hoye said, including suggestions for a policy on the right to organize and a model for factory monitoring, 
Monitoring, not disclosur.e, Hoye said, is the most important part of code of conduct enforce­ment. 
"My sense is that public dis­closure may not do as much as monitoring to help improve workers' lives, but at the same time, many constituencies have been calling for public disclo­sure and it's something that's important to them," he said. 
Three of the largest manufac­turers -Champion, adidas and Gear for Sports -have agreed to disclose factory locations for Notre Dame apparel. Gear had agreed to do so earlier and Champion announced its deci­sion for full disclosure this week. 
Both of those cornpanirs will have a list of their factories pub­lished by January. 
"We are providing all our col­legiate bookstore customers with the locations of our manu­facturing facilities so that they can reassure their students of Champion's commitment to eth­ical workplace philosophies," said Michael Flatow, Champion's president and chief executive officer. 
Champion and adidas arc1 the two nonvoting, licensee mem­bnrs of the Task Force. 
Iloye said he would like to see all of' the companies that manu­facture Notre Dame apparel fol­low their lead. 
"Our hope is that all of our licensees will respond to the request positively. like Champion and adidas have," he said. 
cally the use of a semicolon, as well as cer­tain choices of words. 
In the end, the measure was passed with three mem­bers abstaining. 

. Following weeks of meeting with the many rec­tors on campus, the Gender Relations Committee pre­sented a resolution asking the adminstration to adopt a concrete definition of 24­hour space. 
"124-hour space) is not mentioned in Du Lac," Pasquerilla West senator Audra Hagan said. "It's determined by the rectors." 
Hagan and Siegfried sena­tor Steven Sanchez said that they found a number of dis­crepancies between women's dorms and men's dorms. Among them was the pres­factories. University officials gathered that information in order to implement the monitor­ing system with PricewaterhouseCoopers, but they had no intention of publi­cizing their findings. 

"The University will use this information to monitor the licensees. There is no need to publicly disclose [it]," she said in February. "It is a matter of com­petitiveness for the manufactur­ers." 
Hoye stressed that this week's move is not a reversal of that policy, as Notre Dame itself is not releasing the locations, it is simply asking its licensees to do so. 
"We don't think it would be appropriate to collect that infor­mation and then turn around and disclose it to the public," he 
. 1±4----
Samt Mazy's Collegg 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
The Natfon's PrBmler-Catholic Wom9n's College 

27th An.nu.al 
mately approved. 


LO:NDON" S-U.l\tfl\,,IER PR.OGR.AlVI 
May 24 -June 19, 2000
Attention · Any Students interested in the Rhodes, Marshall, and Mitchell Scholarships 
• 

Associate Dean Walter F. Pratt, ~r. will have a meeting to discuss the application 
Courses offered in History, Art, Sociology. 

processes on 
For further information contact: Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 


Monday November 22, 1999 
Saint Mary's College 

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

(219) 284-4462 





7:00 p.m. 
e-mail: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu 
Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4866 
101 Law School 






orld 
I ¦ 


Thursday, November 18, 1999 COMPILED FlWM THE 0BSEHVER WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
---~~=-=-=------=======================================================-========= 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Ex-Chinese soldier wins 
fiction prize 
NEW YORK 

Capping a l'.Prn111011y hostPd by StnvP Martin and r,\atu ring Oprah Winfrey. National Book ,\ward judgPs on Wnclnnsday night honored a wriL!ll" grawful just to hp in the United Statns, Ila Jin. a f'ornwr nrnmlwr of the Chinest! l'Popln's l.ih11ration Army, won thu fiction prizl' for his noHI "\\/ailing." "J want to thank Anwrira. tlw land of gnnc-rosity and prospnrity." said thn author, who emigratod from China in 198.'.i and now tnachcs at Emory Univprsity. "AlrnvP all, I thank tlrn English languagn. which has nmbracod me as an author and provid,:d me with a niche wlwrP I can do nrnaningf'ul work." "Waiting." set in cont1i111porary China. tnlls UH: story of' ,111 army dot:lor in lov,! with a nurso hut unwilling, and PVPlltllally unable. to divor<'P lh1i p1iasant woman with whom lw has an arnrngHd marriagP. ll!i'll noPd morn than a dPt·adP twl'on• a judgn will Int him do il. "It's hasf'd on a true stury," tlrn author said in ll pn•-t'l'l't!mony intorvimv. 
Baptist group proposes anti-gay 
marriage initiative 
SACRAMENTO 

1'111• C:alil'ornia Soullrnrn Baptist Convention plPdgPd WPdrn,sday to support an anti-gay mar­riag<' i11itialiv1~ going to state voters next year. and also ro1Hlemrrnd l)pmocratic Gov. Gray Davis for signing gay-rights legislatiori". l'roposilion 22 would bar tlm statn from recog­rlizing s,t11ll'·SPX marriagns. It is on the ballot on March 7. Tim convention unanimously endors(id tl11~ initialiv,i. "It's a significant positive statn­nwnt to rnaflirm the sanctity of marriagn," said Fthii:s Commission trustee Norma May. "Some 1wopln say this is negative, but I don't see it that way. Wn rwnd strong family values now with all lh<' viol,mcl' that g1ms on," The endorsement of' tlw two proposals camn a day after the Georgia Soutlwrn Baptist Convention ousted two church­I'S for IPlling homosexuals serve as church lr,ad­<ffs and for allowing a gay wedding at one of the chmdws. 
Third-largest diamond 'Merena' draws $4.04 million 
GENEVA 

M111111tnd on a platinum ring and mystnriously 11111nnd "M1•re1rn," onn of thn world's largest Pnwrald-cut diamonds was auctioned WPdrwsday for $4.04 million. Sotheby's auction housP said the llawless stone is the third largest l'lll!'rald-cul diamond in Lht\ world. The dia­moml was bought by a private North Californian collector. a woman who wished to remain anonynrnus, Sotlwhy's said. Sim christened thn gem Llw "M1m'lla Diamond," though thn auction lwus1• said Lhn mason behind tlrn name was 1111k110w11.Tlw 55. l I carat stonn is tlrn third­htrgPst Firwst Whitn Pnrnrald-cut diamond ever to app,\ar at auction, Sollmby's said. 
•iiifiiittlMttthMiaf:4 
Dow AMEx: 
823..tO JONES -36 1 
N11sd11<J!
-49.24 
3269 . .W 
0 
-23.66 
NYSE 644.51 
-3.11 
S&P 500: 

Composite
1410.71 
Volume: 
-9.36

10,883.09 
I 8,798,980,242 

VOLUME LEADERS 

CAMPAMX tIC!H \ CMMBI $ GRANAI QICI 
lltA'tllON lllC . 2.18'50 J ,11
.-134. '' 

COilPA.Q COMPUTH '"""' .1,7. 11 11.u
CPQ +1.6900 O&t.L CONPUT&JII OELL -f..65 -1, Sl3'15 3t. 75 MICROaorT C'OI\P HSI"!' -:i:. 6!i -2.JUS 85.00 lffOJtlUX ~OlP "'" • 1] .,o +1. UDO 1:lw19­Ok.\CL& C0.11.P OIi.CI. tlO.Oa . 6.5000 71.00 nrraL coJtP IlffC -J. J7 -1.eus 7' ,15 RAI~JI 8YSTJ: . 131.25 +10"50M 18. "iO c:raco •YaT&NS """" 8'.7~
csco t0,30 . 0.41500 li'Pll&lt I11C PH . O.l7 +o. u,o 34 .oo 
IRELAND 

APF Photo A woman with her children walks In front of graffiti of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) referring to the hand over of guns and explosives on Wednesday in Belfast. The IRA made a statement earlier In the day that they supported the Good Friday Agreement and appoint a go-between to negotiate disannament with the International decommissioning body. 



IRA supports peace agreement 

Officials look to crew member in query 
idea it has always dismissed as surrender. 
The statement came after considerable concessions by the Ulster Unionist Party, which had insisted that dis­armament precede setting up the local parliament. It also represented the most dramatic move yet in a choreographed series of reciprocal conciliatory com­ments and pledges this week from those involved in the rescue talks, which were mediated by a former United States Senator. 
condition of anonymity, said the Arabic words uttered by the crcwmemlmr in the co-pilot seat hav1i been translated to: "I made my decision now. I put my faith in God's hands." 
The official said the crewmembcr, whom he would not name, was believed to be alone in the cockpit at the time and spoke just before the Flight 990's autopilot was turned oil 
Earlier, another source close to the investigation said Egyptian airline tenta­tively identified Capt. Gameel el-Batouty as occu­pying the co-pilot's seat and 
George Mitchell. 
The I.H.A. has maintairrnd a cease-lire for morn than two years to support of the role of its political wing, Sinn Fein, in peace talks. But today it made its bnlief in the accord explicit. 
"In our view," the organi­zation said, referring lo the April 1998 accord, "the Good Friday agreement is a significant devnlopmnnt and we believe its full imple­mentation will contribute to the achicvem1mt of lasting peace." 
uttering a prayer just before the autopilot was disengaged. EI-Batouty. a 5<J~year-old relief co-pilot, facnd retiremnnt from the state-ownnd airlirw early next year. 
The source said the iden­tification came after the airline orticials listmrnd to the cockpit voice recorder, one of two "black boxes" recovered from tho crash site 60 miles off Nantucket Island. 
In Egypt. rnlativns angrily denied that el-Batouty had sent money home bucausfl he planned to commit stri­cide, describing him as a loving father of five. 
Associated Press 
BELFAST, 
Northern Ireland 
The Irish Republican Army said Wednesday that it "unequivocally" backed the Northern Ireland peace agreement, and agreed to appoint a go-between to the panel charged with disarm­ing the paramilitaries, 
The long-sought state­ment made no reference to an actual turnover of weapons. and it conditioned 
the naming of the middle­man on the establishment of the new power-sharing Northern Ireland govern­ment called for in the April 1998 peace accord. 
But in what was seen as a meaningful omission, the message did not include the I.R.A.'s previous defiant claim that the group had no intention of ever disarming. And the group, an outlawed secret paramilitary force, showed a willingness for the first time to consider dismantling its arsenal, an 
Associated Press 

NEWPOHT. IU. 
A crew member appar­ently alone in the cockpit of an EgyptAir jetliner said "I made my decision now" just before the autopilot was turned off and the plane began its fatal plunge, a. federal law enforcement oflicial said on Wodnesday. 
Moments later, when the plane was diving, the pilot re-entered the cockpit and apparently struggled to regain control of the jetlin­er, a source close to the investigation said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
"Pull with me. Help me. Pull with me," the pilot said, according to the source. 
The f'ocus of the investi­gation has shifted to the backup co-pilot amid indi­cations that he was at the controls just before the plane crashed into the Atlantic. 
Although there was no sign of any technical mal­function, it is too early to say the crew played any role in the Oct. 31 cras)l that killed 217 people, investigators said. 
The federal law enforce ment official, speaking on 
-
---·~---­

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, Nove-rnber 18, 1999 
Vote 
continued from page 1 
College president Father Donald Monan called the threat Ex Corde posed to Catholic universities institu­tional and academic freedom "positively dangerous." 
Leihrecht addressed these concerns. 
"The bishop's role is one of relationship, not control," he said. 
Ex Corde will be imple­mented one year after it is reviewed and approved by the Holy See. The bishops will then engage in dialogue to determine develop proce­dures for implementation of the mandate. 
Much of the 90 minute floor debate focused on one of the most contro­
pastoral disaster. The tension between theologians and church leaders now is the greatest I've seen in my 36 years as, a superior in the Catholic . Church," said Weakland. "Therefore, because there is so much dis­trust that exists between the Church heirarchy and theolo­gians. this is not the right time to pass this document. 
"It will lead to a lot of bick­ering and public disputes where only the Church will be harmed." 
In response to concerns that some bishops would implement the mandate in a more "heavy-handed" man­ner, Leibrecht said steps will be taken to safeguard the process. 
During th11 one-year period after the document is approved, time will be spent 
in dialogue 
versial parts of with Catholic
''There is a temen­
the document, colleges and 
the mandate, dous unrest in my universities to 
which calls for heart. I believe this try to under­theology pro­stand the docu­
[mandate] will create 
fessors at ment and man­
Catholic col­a pastoral disaster." date more fully leges and uni­and to design a versities to procedure for
Archbishop Rembert 
receive a man­implementa­

Weakland
date from the tion, said 

Milwaukee archdiocese
local bishop to Leibrecht. 
teach. 
"The theologian has two 
commitments to teach so not only is the theologian teach­ing not only with the manda­t um but out or baptism," ·teibricht said. "Through the rnandatum we are publically recognizing the theologian as 
a teacher in the Church." 
The mandate says theology 
professors have a "commit­
ment and responsibility to 
teach authentic Catholic doc­
trine and to refrain from 
putting forth as Catholic 
teaching anything contrary to 
the Church's magisterium." It 
also calls on theology profes­
sors to have "a duty to be 
faithful to the Church's mag­
isterium as the authoritative 
interpretflr of sacred scrip­
ture and sacred tradition." 
Some have questioned 
whether the mandate could 
affect hiring practices of 
Catholic colleges and univer­
sities, although Archbishop 
Anthony Bevilacqua of 
Philadelphia said it would 
not. 
"I want to emphasize that 
granting a mandatum does 
not involve intense investiga­
tion of the theologian and 
their writings and beliefs," he 
said. 
Archbishop Rembert 
Weakland of Milwaukee was 
one of few who spoke during 
floor debate to voice concern 
over the mandate, citing the 
fragile relationship that cur­
rently exists between Church 
leaders and theologians. 
"There is a tremendous 
Bishop John D'Arcy of the Fort Wayne/South Bend dioceses echoed concerns that the mandate not go too far. 
"As we put this mandate forth, the goal is that there is a reciprocity between us [bishops] respecting their [theologians] expertise and them respecting our role," said D'Arcy. 
Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston said he sees Ex Corde as the next step in continuing the dialogue between the Church heirarchy and Catholic institutions of higher education. 
"Ex Corde is a great gift to colleges, bishops and dioceses as we learn how to further our relationship and continue to work together," said Law. "I sec Ex Corde not as ending the dialogue between the Church and Catholic colleges and universities but as fram­ing our dialogue as we move ahead." 
Leibrecht acknowledged that tensions existed between the academic institutions and the Church, particularly over the mandate, but said the document is beneficial. 
"There are problems, I understand that," Leibricht said. "There are tensions, I understand that. But of all the years of discussion and dia­logue, it came time to do Ex Corde Ecclesiae and our com­rn ittee believes now is the time. This document will give us a surge for what we need to do to improve things fur­





D'Arey supports Ex Corde 
. Bishop of Fort Wayne/South Bend says dialogue is important 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Washington Correspondent 
WASHINGTON 
Despite concerns that juridi­cal elements in Ex Corde Ecclesiae will create a wider divide between bishops and theologians, Bishop John D'An;y of the Fort Waym,/South Bend diocese sairl the document should increase dialogue between the two. 
"Bishops need theologians and theologians need bishops," D'Arcy said Wednesday. "There is a need for continued dialogue and reciprocity in the relationship." 
Throughout the nine-year period during which the U.S. Catholic Church has looked at Ex Corde, D'Arcy said he has maintained dialogue with col­lege and university presidents, boards of trustees and theology faculty of the academic institu­tions in his diocese. 
"I have had extensive dia­logue with the presidents of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," said D'Arcy. "The question has arisen that perhaps there is not enough dialogue between bish­ops and theologians but I have been privileged to have much dialogue with professor John Cavadini, head of the Notre Dame theology department, and I hold him in the highest esteem." 
D'Arcy said he was in favor of' the mandate and didn't believe it would limit academic freedom, a concern of many in Catholic higher education. He was concerned, however, that floor debate on Wednesday morning focused too much on the mandate. He said he had "anxiety that the mandate is seen as an end. but it is really a means." 
"I highly endorse the goal of the maHdate," he said. "It uses the word 'reciprocity' in the document because that is what is essential. Both bishops and thPOlogians serve the word of God, but in different capacities. 

This is why we need continued between theologians and the conversation." Church heirarchy and a "pas­
There is a need throughout toral disaster." the process of implementing "I wouldn't phrase it that the mandate to protect the way," D'Arcy said, referring to 
freedom  of  Weakland's  
inquiry  in  comments  
academics  "/ hope this step will  made during  
while also protecting pastoral free­ bring us to more communion, not less. "  the floor debate on Ex Corde. "I  
dom,  D'Arcy  think there is  
said.  Bishop John D' Arey  a  lot of work  
"Sometimes we make aca- Fort Wayne/South Bend diocese  to do with the­ 

demic free­dom without parameters as in the secular world, but the Catholic Church does have parameters and as Catholic colleges and universi­ties,· these parameters apply," Im said. 
D'Arcy said the process for a professor receiving a mandate will not be a witch hunt or intensive inquiry or question­ing. 
"The committee has gentled this significantly," he said. "The document just says that the professor should be teach­ing in communion with the Church." 
D'Arcy said he disagreed with Milwaukee Archbishop Rembert Weakland's comment that passing Ex Corde would lead to increased t1rnsions ologians but 

with most the­
ologians and bishops, the relationship is respectful. I hope this step will bring us to more communion, not l11ss." 
D'Arcy emphasized that throughout the implementation process of Ex Corde and dis­cussion of how to implement the mandate, he plans to remain responsive to college and university faculty. 
"I will try to havP conversa­tion with theologians and explain to them, listen to them. and dialogue with men like that and women like we have who love the church," he said. "The link between bishops and theologians deprmds on mutual respect and friendship and both have tu undersand that to make the relationship work." 
.JDM Communications 
NEXT-----'•
. 
!! !!!:=!!:= AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE 
. -----­
• 100% National Digital Wireless Network 
• Direct Connect* 
• No Roaming Ask About Our No Long Distance* 
. • No Contracts 
Call Today and Ask About Our: 250 Anytime Cellular Minutes w/ I 000 Free Weekend Minutes* 
For $40°0 per month 
219 237 1082 802 East LaSalle Ave., South lknd, IN 46617 
--(Just South of'St. Joseph's Medical Center) 
10% Off of Equipment and/or Accessories w/This Ad 
(Valid thru 11-30-99) 
www.jdmcommunications.com "Bringing You Tomorrow's Wireless Technology Today" 



HOMES FOR RENT 


Thursday, November 18, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
SMC opens new tennis courts for students, athletes 
By KATIE MILLER 
News \'(Iri1t·r 
;\ftN six wneks ol' construction and approximatnly $125,000, the new tcn­nis courts nnxt to !\ngnla Athlntic l•adlily am rnacly for usr.. 
"Tlwy wen1 rPacly for use about a wnPk and a half ago," said facilities director ./(lhn DnLee. ":rhey are in grnal shapn and rnady to go." 
Originally. thr.rr. wnre thrne tennis courts nnxt to ;\ngnla and four nnxt to H11gi11a llall. Moving all tlrn tennis courts closPr tn Angela will benefit thn tnam. ))ol,1111 said. 
"Thn biggest IH11rnf'it is having six courts. Six courts are needed to play a match," hn said,: "Now everyone can lw on orw court. 
Assistant athlntic clirnctor Gretrlrnn llildnbra11dt agnws that the new tcm­11 is courts and tlwir location have murh tu offrr studnnls and the tennis tPam. 
"I laving first-class tennis courts will improve practicn, practice limes and quality of' play," slrn said. "The team will not have to go to Notre Dame lo practice. They will be able to practice at Limes that are best for them rather than work around another team's practice times." 
llildcbrandt sees the new tennis courts as a good start for this year's tennis team. 
"In add.ition to the new tennis courts. the team will rely on the new coach, freshmen and returning play­ers for a successful season," she said. 
The new courts will improve quality of' play, competition and team spirit according to team captain Katie Vales. 
"The old tennis courts were cracked, making it hard for play," Valos said. "When we played a match, half the team would be playing at the Hegina courts and the other half at Angnla. With tho new courts, lh1! team will bn together. It will be much casi­nr for us to support each other." 
"The new tennis courts will attract more teams, improving our competi­tion," Vales said."We will start play­ing on them after spring break." 


...--------------------------------------. 

GOT A WORD FOR OUR TASTY NEW CHICKEN CLUB SANDWICH. 
CRAVEABLE. 
(.Ir's NOT A REAL WORD, BUT WE LIKE IT.) 

THE TASTY (HICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
One bite of the delicious Chicken Club, and you'll always crave the flavor of its all-white-meal chicken topped w,lh crispy bacon. fresh lettuce and tomato and mayonnaise. And that's no problem. because now this ultra-sahsty,ng sandwich 1s here to stay at BURGER KING" So come on in and indulge your craving 
The Huddle· Lafortune Student Center PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 

IT JUST TASTES BETTER~ 
www b1ugsrk1ng corn 
WORLD HUNGER PRESENTATION 

Join in the Fight against 
HUNGER and 
POVERTY!




OQ~!am 

Come to a Simple Meal of beans and rice to increase awareness of world DEBT, POVERTY, and HUNGER. Speaker -President ofOxfam America 
TIME: TONIGHT at 7:00 PLACE:CSC 

Admission: $3.00 
(proceeds go to Oxfam America) 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 18, 1999 
-
SI 

Thursday, November 19, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 


'Cold Turkey' day swaps sandwiches for cigarettes 
Special to The Observer 
Students can get u free turkey sandwich for giving up tlwir cigarettes today at several locali()ns around campus as part of national "Cold Turkey" day. 
The Notre Dame chapter of the American C:ancr:r Socidy {ACS), l'ILLAHS and IRISHcalth will be giving coupons for a turkey sandwich to students and staffers who give up their tobacco products. 
Coupons will be available from ACS at North and South Dining llalls and the LaFortunte Student Center today at lunch. PILLAHS will hand out Urn coupons to smokers around cam­
pus and anyone can exchange their tobac­co for a coupon at the 
IRISl!calth offices in 
Rolfs SportsRec
Center and 311 LaFortune between 8 
a.m. and 5 p.m. 
Cold Turkey Day 
. Get coupons during lunch in NDH, SDH, LaForlune and Rolfs 
The coupons can be redeemed at Reckers, Grccnfields, the lluddlcMart, Decio Commons, Cafe Poche. Irish Cafe, Waddicks and Common Stock Sandwich Co. 
IRJS!lealth and the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education sponsor smoking cessation classes and resources. 

Visit http://ohserver.nd.edu 
A perfect meeting place throughout the weekend .. 
Open Friday and Saturday D.iring 
N .D. Home Football Weekend .... 
Everyone Welcome 
Live Music Grilled Burgers. Brats. and Other Specialties 
Cold Beverages & Spirits 60" Screen TV's Fully Em:losed Tent 
ext to the N.D. Bookstore. 219-631-2000 



SMC recognized in Templeton Guide 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's was among 405 colleges and universities nationwide named to the 1999 edition of "The Templeton Guide: Colleges that Encourage Character Development," for inspiring its students to live ethical and civil-minded lives. 
"This recognition affirms what the [Center For Academic Innovation] CFAI, and indeed all of Saint Mary's, is trying to do, which is to be attentive to the ethical value issues inher• ent in the total educational experience," said College presi­dent Marilou Eldred. 
Tho Templeton Guide is simi­lar to the U.S. News and World Heport rankings, which rate quality of education. It was released as part of the College and Character Initiative, a national program run by the John Templeton Foundation which strives to promote posi­tive values such as compassion, self-discipline, honesty, and respect at the college level. 
The guide is intended to inform the public about progress in these areas at col­leges and universities. CFAI was a prime reason Saint Mary's was honored, according to the Foundation. 
The guide notes that the Center's programs "support a model of intellectual develop­ment that is at once collabora­tive, value-based, intellectually rigorous and practical." 
Specifially, the guide cites three CFAI programs: Student Independent Study and Research (SISTAR). the CFAI fellowship program for faculty, 
and the Farrell Mentor 
Partnership for new faculty. 
"It's a kind of center that 
pul'i support and responsibility 
hack on all the wonderful 
minds at Saint Mary's," CFAI 
director Patrick While said. 
"Our real emphasis is to get 
people to collaborate." 
SISTAR involves both faculty and students working together in intensive research projects. Its purpose is to give faculty and students a responsibility for growth, in an equal part­nership. The CFAI Fellows receive support for their study and research. and in turn share their ideas and results with the community. 
The Farrell Mentor Partnership, formerly known as the Faculty Novice/Mentor Partnership Program, is a year-long mentorship program for new faculty. Within this program, new faculty are assigned a mentor from outside their department, and partic­ipate in group and individual sessions which enable them to form supportive relationships with their colleagues. 
In addition, the CFAI also offers faculty research, teach­ing and seed grants, the CFAI Fellows Program, and the Collaborative Study and Research (COSTAH) Program. 
The college was among 45 other colleges included in the Faculty and Curriculum Programs section of the guide. 
"Inclusion in The Templeton Guide is a nice distinction for the the College, which confirms what we already know -that Saint Mary's is working hard and well to develop character, as well as intellect," White said. 
Free is good. If it's something you can actually use. Which means that X: Drive's all good. 
X:0rive is the first Internet hard drive on the desktop. Difference is, you can access X:Drive anywhere, 
Desktop le) 1/J My Computer i,! .,dfloppy/A)
'•i a:, Hard Drive (C:J 
l!! :,;J_ CD-Rom(D.) 
(l:i-.;I Zip Drive (E) 
('c·--X:Drlve (X:) a D Public 
. DMusic MPJs DH1story Study Group 
a D Private 
DResume DPhotos 
!ft ~ Nelwork No,ghbo,hood 
fl Recycle Br, 
anytime. (A major breakthrough for schoolwork. And R&R.) Let's say you're doing a group grope. Think how much easier things'lt go when everyone has access to the same files, projects and presentations. No matter where they are on campus. (Or the planet.) It's perfect for individual projects, too. Like term papers, essays, and resumes-even if you share a computer. 'Cause your X:Drive files are password-protected. More good news. X:Drive gives you 25MB of space free. (That's about the same as the 17 virus-infected floppies you won't have to schlep around anymore.) Which brings us to another nifty feature. X:0rive lets you grab MP3s, video, groovy pix from the Web in seconds white you keep surfing. So, go to www.xdrive.com and lock and load. X:Drive's a real bar­gain. In fact, it's the best freebie on the Web. 

f#!itl·fihil-iu.­

page 10 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 18, 1999 
WHAT COULD PARENTS WEEKEND POSSIBLY HAVE TO DO WITH THE 
Freshman Retreat #26 (Dec. 


THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY ANYWAY? 
Mond9y, November 8 through 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Jim Lies, C.S.C. [Lies.4@nd.edu] TatgetedDorm$: Oa Knott, Pi!lngbom, Sie d, S 
Oh, you think you have it all figured out simply from reading the Basilica Community Choir Re · title. You think this article is about something as simple as being Monday,.Novembe[~~rJ:00 thankful for your Mom and Dad at Thanksgiving time. Although 
Earth Science Building, Room 
that may ultimately be what this article has to say, it is actually much more nuanced, and, may I say, more sophisticated than that. 
Monday, November (note date Chang 
We are well nigh upon Parents Weekend. Mom, Dad, sibs, and 
Walsh Hall Chapel Special Monday Prayer· e Rover may already be enroute! It's a weekend during which we 
host our parents instead of them always hosting us. It's an opportu­
Campus Bible S 
nity to welcome them to the home that they have, in many ways,
Tuesday, Novem 
made possible for us, and that we have, or are beginning to, claim as 
Badin Hall Chap 
our own. 
Do you think it's mere coincidence that Parents Weekend falls only days away from Thanksgiving Day? Well, I'm not sure either, but it sure seems to make a lot of sense, doesn't it? I mean what two events are better companions than hosting our parents and the day upon which we give thanks to God for the blessings we have known in our lives. 
We often speak of the Notre Dame Family. In fact, we so often speak of it that I fear the power of the image may be lessened. Nonetheless, the reality is, it isn't only you who became a part of Notre Dame when you enrolled for that first class. There was some­thing more that happened. Mom and Dad's years of love and care had moved you to a place beyond the shelter of their home, but not beyond the shelter of their hearts. Their participation in this place is wrapped up in yours; their membership in this family is wrapped up in you. 
All of us, students, parents, faculty and staff, the entire Notre Dame community, have much to be thankful for in these days. In the same 
Christ the King 
way that families throughout the country gather on Thanksgiving Day to give thanks, I think it makes sense that we should gather. 

Weekend -Preslders 
Although wrapped up in a football weekend, it is no less an oppor­
at Sacred Heart Basilica 
tunity for this Notre Dame Family to gather and to give thanks for 

Saturday, November 20 
the many blessings that we as a family have known. 
30 minutes afte a Rev. Thomas E. a 
One of the most significant ways that we, as a Catholic community, 
Sunday, November 21 Mass 
can give thanks is through the celebration of the Eucharist. The very
8:00 a.m, word, "eucharist," means "thanksgiving" in Greek. I have long 
Rev.James B. Ki 
thought that no visit to this campus is complete without partaking
10:00 am 
in the Eucharist; I risk offending some by saying that it is more
Most Rev. John rv1/f?'Arcy, D 
important even than that which takes place in the stadium on six
Bishop, Ft. Wayne-South Be 
Saturdays in the fall. It is, wherever we choose to partake in it, a
11:45 a.m. central symbol of our shared faith, and an important moment of
Rev. James S. Lies,. c.s.c., .,. -.... 
.,,.. . . . ... -•. •·-....·--.... ·•··••·•···•iff?t .. 
prayer and thanks for this family. 
Saturday, November 20 Massi> · 
Stepan Center 
Oh, I'd like to take credit for the fact that Parents Weekend falls days
45 minutes after the game before Thanksgiving, but I cannot. Perhaps credit is due to some­
Rev. Randall c. Rentr,er, e:s1Pr> 
one, or maybe it's just coincidence. Whatever the reason, lets not 


Sunday Vespers-Baslllca 
miss the connection. Join me in giving thanks to God this weekend
7:15 p.m. 
for the blessings that your family has known in the persons of your
Most Rev. DanielR.Jenky,'Ci'S,C: 
parents, and join me, too, in thanking God for the blessings that this 
Auxiliary Bishop, Ft. Wayne-South Bend Diocese* 
larger Notre Dame family has known. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Ezekiel 34: 11-12, 15-17 

I¦ 
2nd Reading 1 Corinthians 15: 20-26,28 (DMPUS 
Gospel Matthew 25r31-46 ~INISTRY 
7 
I
,

Thursday, November 18, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 11 



Black fa01ily settles, given $2.55 million 
A'\scH.:iatcd Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 

Tho family of a tnnn-ager who was killnd by a dump truck on lwr way to lrnr job aCC(\plnd $2.55 million Wedrwsday Lo sellle a lawsuit accusing a shopping mall of' racism for not lntting curtain city huses drop passengers off 011 ils propnrty. 
Cynthia Wiggins, 17. died in J1) 1)5 while crossing a husy s1wn11-lane highway outside tho Walden Callnria in suburban Chcnktowaga, where she worked at a f'ast-l'ood rnstau­rant. 
Tlw Wiggins family l'iled a wrongf'ul-dnath suit against mall owner l'yramicl Cos. arwr it was rev,mfod that tlrn mall did not allow husns f'rom prt>­dominantly black neighbor­hoods lo drop pass1mgors al the mall. 
The family also sued the regional tra11sit agency -Lhe Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority--. and the truck driver. 
The l'amily, rcprcsentnd by Johnnie Cochran .Jr., was seek­ing $150 million. 
On Wednesday. in Lhe middle or the trial. a settlement was reached uncfor which Pyramid will pay $2 million, the driver $250,000 and the transit agnncy $300,000. Ms. Wiggins' 4-ycar-old son will receive the money. 
None of Lhe defendants and Local NAACP President Frank Mesiah was disappointed that a settlement was reached. 
Irish Country Bed & Breakfast Registry 
""Ul~u ffo« 'tt. ~ ~ a p1a«. ta.~-" 
1690 I Jackson Road 
South Bend Call: (219) 255-1516 Fax: (219) 257-4193 
Web: H'lvw.irish country.com 




Shore promotes activism at Hesbergh Center 
By JOHN HUSTON News Writer 
Bill Shore wants to change the way people view social service. 
Shore, founder and execu­tive director of Sham Our Strength, a national nonprofit organization that supports anti-hunger and anti-poverty efforts, spoke Wednesday afternoon at the llesburgh Center for International Studies. 
"The question is not 'Do we have the solutions?'" Shore said. "The question is 'Do we know how to make these solu­tions affordable?' We have developed solutions but we have not been effective in get­ting them to the market." 
Ordinarily, nonprofit organi­zations receive government grants or hold fundraisers to accumulate the funds with which they operate. Shore decided that instead of' bning a "re-granter," Share Our Strength would have to create money on its O\Vn, through corporate sponsorships, licensing and cause-related marketing. 
Share Our Strength was not merely formed to create and distribute money, Shore said. 
"We also want to do communi­Shore's n11w book, "The ty organizing." Cathedral Within," addresses 
Recently, Community Weallh this problem, applying a Ventures: Inc., was created lo metaphor of cathedral build­counsel corporations, founda­ing to social service. tions and "I think nonprofit tlwre arr a organiza­lot of lessons
"There are more people
tions that are to be lnarned
who need assistance
interested in from tlrn creating now than when cathedral wealth for builders,"
we started." 
the commu­Shorn said. nity. Called a F o r "for-profit" Bill Shore research on subsidiary, director, Share Our Strength the new 
the group reinvests money, earned through busi­ness-world means, into Share Our Strength. allowing them to "focus on a diffenmt set of issues," Shore said. 
Sharn Our Strength has raised more than $82 million since it was founded in l 984, bul Shore said the group hasn't made a dent in poverty yet. 
"There are more people who need assistance today than when we started," he said. 
"Ultimately, I think we're going to have to think very dif­ferently with how we treat social problems," Shore said. "I think we've got to change peopl.~ 's perceptions of this work. 
book, he vis­
ited various sites. including the Duomo Cathedral in Milan, Italy. The structure took 51 :1 y1\ars to complete, and Shore noted that tho builders knew they would never see the linishcd product, "but it didn't detract. it enhanced their workman­ship." 
"One of the things that many of us have been given is the opportunity to serve ... to do something very powerful that extends the reach of the com­munity," he said. 
Shore is a former legislative and political director for Senator Gary Hart and chief of staff for Senator Robert Kermy. 
Read The Observer. Then recycle it. 
Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 



QO®@~tr[s@[ru@)D@ 

COLLeGe nlGHT 

SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 

$1COVER 
(with college I.D., must be 21) 
and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. 
More pictures online every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 
222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 

(!}(!}om@(!)ISi 
m • 
• NEW! A Lighter, More Diverse Menu: 
Our famous steaks plus more sandwiches, salads and pastas. (Not only for special occasions.) 
• NEW! A More Relaxed Setting: 
Polo shirts, pop music, and updated Chicago pies on the wall. (And you can keep your Cubs cap on.) 
222 5. Michigan • South Bend • 219.234.5200 next door to Heartland 

----------------· 




VIEWPOINT 

page 12 oNsiRvER Thursday, November 18, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 014 South Dming Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDffOR IN CIIIEf Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE .EDITOR: Michad Vanegas SAINT MillY', EDITOR: Nor~en Cillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin [)alum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Hueiat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michad Revers Wni ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timotlw Lane GRAPHICS EmTOR: Joe Mt1eller 
CONTACT Us 
OFHCE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............63 )-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING .. _..................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........._..............................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME__ .....__...._···-··631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-53 l 3 NEWS............... .. ................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.. ..... .................................. 631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu ScENE........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking nev.'S from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews 
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 
and rares of print ads 
aboul The Observer
archives to search for 
ro meet the editors and 
articles published afrer 
staff
August l999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advercisemenrs, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenc the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinc space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through let1ers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstions regarding Observerpo!iczes should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichell, Kmpa. 


I got a message in the mail today. Not that it wasn't to be expected. It said, "Kevin, (here's) some information on the. column you are writing for November 18th," and there was a page attached listing the purposes and 
Kevin Dunn
goals of what I'm going to write about. For a more just
So here ram, 
and humane 
calling us all to 
world
service and action for a more just and humane world, inviting the Notre Dame community to share reflec­tions that challenge Observer reader­ship to engage in ongoing conversation and action pointed at social concerns, critically examining structures and institutions that maintain or create unjust systems, and encouraging every­one to respond to my reflections. 
I'm not going to accomplish this by writing about inspirational three-legged squirrels, awe-inspiring Indian sum­mers, or Walter Payton's divine inter­vention in a certain Green Bay Packer defeat. I'm going to accomplish some of these goals by telling everyone a short story of mine. 
Being the youngest of seven children and the fifth member of my family to attend Notre Dame, I've learned a bit from example. This summer in Wayne's World, Illinois (Aurora) I had the opportunity to be a volunteer for nine weeks at Hesed House, a multi-dimen­sional facility for the poor. I worked in a food pantry, an interfaith soup kitchen, a clothes closet and for a host of other organizations that provided shelter, a warm meal, and companion­ship for the homeless. As part of the Summer Service Project, I lived in a building that used to be Aurora's municipal incinerator and kept in touch with a responsible and accommodating Notre Dame Alumni club. 1shared my trials and tribulations with a wonderful friend. Eileen Huie, and manv other dedicated service workers, while I took time out personally to reflect journalis­tically. While I had certainly read about the injustices to expert, I had never experienced them first hand. My year abroad prepared me for living in for­eign environments, but it certainly didn't prepare me for the dose of reali­ty that accompanied my roller coaster experience. 
Through constant interaction with the homeless, I learned that Tl IEY exist. Yes, the marginalized, the forgotten and the impoverished are out there. And they are waiting for all those "blessed" with the spoils, talents and gifts bestowed upon them by God to give back. Not because they want it. Not because they expect it. And not even because they've "earned" it. But because they need it. 
One person that needs our help is Carl Jones. You see, Carl had a tough time being a father, brother and spousal figure at 10 years of age. He could only discipline his four younger siblings, demand that they listen to their mother and wash them and put them to bed so many times. He could only question and reprimand his 10­year-old peer's attitudes and disrespect for elders over a certain period. The time to help this child may have come and gone for he was forced to choose between his mother and his aunt in a confrontational altercation in the Hesed House parking lot only weeks after I left. 
Two other children that need our help are Jordan and .Michael Moctezuma. But that chance has proba­bly passed too. Because she had neither the money or time to see a doctor, and thanks to a health care system that should have, but didn't, prevent their mother's death, they are all alone in this world with no true parental figure. No longer will they have someone toler­ate their poor behavior and love them through every moment of their fighting. 
Fortunately, we can prevent cases like these, and luckily, all of us at Notre Dame have a great opportunity lying in our laps. Over 200 students at Notre Dame had the chance to experience a project similar to mine this summer. And I'm positive that they have stories just like mine. 
I'm sure someone else got to hear their own Jones family member ask them, "Kevin, what chu doin'?" or "Kevin, where Eileen at?" I know some­one else got to hear their own Marisol Moctezuma smile like nothing hap­pened after you just overheard her yell at Jordan and Michael !'or an hour straight in their bedroom which shares a thin wall with your living quarters. I bet someone else listened to a lonely anrl abused woman as she expressed her difficulties with paying her sick son's hospital bills, and I'm certain they held her as she cried about her home­less shelter living conditions. Moreover, it's safe to say that someone else has been drawn to serve people in need like I have. 

Summer Service Projects, and other projects focused on insuring social jus­tice, can be found all over campus. I challenge we the students and faculty to discover them and make a differ­ence. For eldest family members this is a great chance. I couldn't proudly write you this article today and boast about my bothers and my school record for the number of Summer Service Projects in a family, if my oldest brother, John, hadn't started the tradition. If you're not the eldest, there's no law against making an impact on other family members or friends and starting a tra­dition. These projects are a special opportunity for all individuals of' the Notre Dame community. 
My incentive for writing this article is the possibility of someone else sharing the gifts of a Summer Service Project like I have. My hope is that someone else will have a child or adult in need ask them to push them higher on the swing oflife like so many asked me. My desire to spread the news about a rewarding opportunity has its roots entrenched in the soil of' this University's mission statement. It is up to you and I, the members of the Notre Dame community, to act upon the injustice of the world. 
Consider this request to make a more humane world your own personal letter addressed to you ... 
Kevin Dunn is a junior government and spanish major. For a More Just and Humane World is a bi-weekly col­umn sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. Comments, and discussions are welcome at ND.ndcntrsc. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in lhis column are not necessarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
E 
THE COMPAN'< WILL ~ NOT BU'< PDA'S FOR @) 0.. EMPLOYEES. e
..
,,
., 
s 
il 
QUE5TION: WILL 
YOU STILL PAY FOR BUSINESS TRIPS 
OF NO DISCERN­
ABLE VALUE? 
~u~sE)i 
SCOTT ADAMS 
A LOT OF PEOPLE. 
ARE. TRAVELING TO PA.LM PILOT 
CALIFORNIA 
LATEL'<. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The philosophers have only interpreted the world in different ways; the point is to change it." 
Karl Marx 19th century German philosopher 
VIEWPOINT 

O
HIE Thursday, November 18, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Church is wrong about sexuality 

On NDv. 2, 1attendncl the speech given by Francis Cardinal Arinzn. I was both heartenncl and saddened by his words. IIn spoke c1uitc convincingly on the topic of soli­darity with Llw poor and defondccl tlrn dignity of the per­son against the tyranny of the contemporary economic order. Cardinal Arinze made it clear that to be a Christian mnans helping our brothers to establish decent and wiir­thy lives. This rmtails lighting against those forces that are antithetical to personal lib(!rty and the stability of our social systems. The g'lobal economic order is a primary rorcn for clnstruction and pain in this world. and therefore our duty is to do what is in our ability to end this unjust system. 
I was saddened, however, by his implications regarding homosexuality and birth control. lie said that in his col­laboration with other rnligious leaders. he has found much agrnnment on these matters. Ile implied that most rnligions find these to be sinful and accordingly condemns thnm. Onn needs only to look at statistics from the United Nations and other repulabln sources lo !ind the justifica­tion for birth control -a desperately needed measure in many parts of the world, not so much to keep down popu­lation. hut to stBm tlrn spread of disease and reduce the hurdnn on families and societies short of resources nneded to sustain new life. 
llcgarding homosexuality. a letter to the editor appmtn)cl in Thn Obsnrvcr on Wednesday that echoed what the Cardinal's sentiments were implied to be. John Bnrgsma wrote. "Why should homosexuality be singled out as the onn tendency toward sinful acts which we should celebrate? We don't celebrate our tendencies toward sin. Instead, wn struggle against them ... and sometinrns getting the help of trained professionals, hope to attain !waling and wholeness to reach a state where our desires are for the right things." The suggestion that homosexuality is a tendency toward sin is simply wrong ­the Catholic Church is wrong. The implication that people with such "t1md1mcios" need "professional help" suggests that tho author bnliovns a gay person can be converted to hotl!roS1JXt1alily -tht1 "right thing." This is a position the Church doesn't cvnn support. Both llrn positions on birth control and hom()snxuality stem in large part from a belief that sPxtrnlity is a rnproductive process primarily. The Church acknowledgns unity and lovn as important eln­nwnts of' s1ixunlity. but. ultimatnly thn argument af{ainst homosoxuality relies on the fact that it. is not procrmitivu and tlwreforn sinful. The matter is not one or all or noth­ing. If wn bnlievn thorn arc other purposes for sexuality than procreation. wn can see the goodness of all loving rnlationships, and understand the 11ec11ssity of birth con­trol In regard to the former, if the ultimate nmssage of Christ is lovn, then accPptunce of all loving nilationships is n!quirnd of Christians, and ANY attacks against these n!lationships am also an attack on Christ's message. 
With tlrnsP thoughts in mind, every day that I'm at Notrn Dame, I feel I am 1.mcoming less of a Catholic, but y(\.t a bl'llnr Christian. 
Paul Ranogajec Sophomore Morrissey Manor November 4, 1999 
'Coach D' thanks student fans 
I want to thank those that came out to support our program during "Friday Night Live." I thought it was a great event that gave everyone an oppor­tunity to sec tho energy that our basketball pro­gram wants to inject into the Notre Dame commu­nit}. We need your support, and you showed us that you arc willing to take a step forward by showing up and making a lot of noise that night. 
I need a favor from you! I need you to be our sixth man! By showing up at games in force, with your high level of energy and creativity, you can help raise the level of our play, while making it a difficult place for our opponents to compete. This will greatly aid in giving us that home court advan­tage that Digger Phelps' teams used to enjoy back in the '70s and early '80s. You make a difference. You also make a difference in rncruit.ing. When we bring prospects on campus for games and they sec a rowdy student section, it excites them to think about being a part or such a fun environnwnt. 
Again, you make a diffP-rence. You can makn a big difference in Notre Dame basketball. I ask that you take another step closer in supporting our pro­gram. I promise we will not let you down. 
"Coach D" Mm Doherty Head Baskccball Coach November 5, 1999 
Support WRC for academic freedom, community conversation 
This letter is regarding "WRC opposes the Catholic mission," Sean Vinck (Nov. 17, The Observer). 
Although I graduated from Notre Dame in 1990 and have only been back to visit for my siblings' graduations, I am shocked and appalled that the kind of gratuitously violent and ill-informed com­mentaries are being published in The Observer. I assume that it is still the main source of informa­tion over lunch for students as it was in my day. 
I am first of all delighted to learn that a women's resource center exists and is even in LaFortune! Mr. Vinck, however, would apparently like this center to he turned into some kind of pre-training center for living one of the two Vatican approved lifestyles for Catholic women: celibate nun (or lay missionary) or married wife and mother. His attack on the center for rightfully recognizing that women are whole persons with many facets, including problems related to sex and pregnancy (let us not forget the campus problems or bingo drinking and the lakes) is a shallow attempt to promote a viciously narrow and demeaning limitation on women's mutual support through information. 
Secondly, experience of studying at a world-class university should have taught Mr. Vinck bettnr than to impute the views or a NOW pamphlet to the organizers of the center. Anymore than the discov­ery of "Mein Kam pr· in his own dorm room should brand him a Nazi. In these days of tlrn defense of Notre Dame's academic frnndom, the Notre Damn community should band together to nnsure that all members of the university be protected from cen­sorship of expression and information. 
Mary Ann Hennessey-Gopaul Class of'90 France November 17, 1999 
There's more to basketball players than 'thug' uniforms 
I am writing to The Observer in response to the Inside Column "Bone Thugs and Basketball." After reading the column. l was thrilled to see that an editor of the paper finally showed some intelli­gence and wrote something worthwhile and open minded. I totally agree with the idea that certain uniforms worn by basketball players create less intelligent and more belligerent players. I don't think that The Observer has ever printed anything even remote­ly as grounded and clear as this column. 
The associate sports editor, Mike Connolly, wrote this edi­torial and was looking beyond his immaturity and ignorance to come up his conclusions. In the second paragraph, he comes right out and states the obvious saying that, "all the teams that wear them [the certain typo of uniformsl are a hunch of thugs.·• I could not agree with him more. The amount of violent crimes that collego basket­ball players arc involved in is alarm­ingly higher for players who wear the "thug" uniforms. Not only that, but the dumb­er players in college basketball thrive on teams with those uniforms. The low graduation rate for some schools, his example was the University of Cincinnati, has everything to do with the uniforms and nothing to do with the academic policies of tlrn school or the recruiting practices of the coach. It is obvious lhat Mike Connolly knew all of lhese facts when he wrote his column because he did an out­standing job informing people of the effects these uniforms have on the players who wear them. 
Lastly I would just like to share my feelings on the broader topic that the author addressed in the last paragraph of his column. Everyone knows that, the way you dress and the way you carry 
yourself says a lot about the kind of person you are. I am just glad that he had intelligence to figurn it out. I do not know many people who have. Clothes and per­sonality are good judges of the quality of a person. Them is no need to n"_int the person and get to know them and find out 
what they arn really likn. An individual who is dressed in good clothes is a b11tt11r per­son than someone who is dressed in bad clothes. The logic is so clear it is almost 
easy to overlook. Placing your views in an editorial is no 1ixcuse for igno• ranee. I find it very hard to believe that a student who prides himself as thn associate sports mli­tor would actually writ11 a column with as ignorant views as that. I can only 
hope that the whole inside column was just a big joke bocause there is no other good explanation for it. 
Mark Conroy Sophomore Morrissey Manor November 16, 1999 

M E 

page 14 Thursday, November 18, 1999 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Joan of Arc sends weak and bleak message 
By GUNDER KEHOE 
Scene Movie Critic 
Refore "The Messenger," director Luc Besson ("La Femme Nikita") was already talented at making fic­tional characters forgettable, so it was curious to sec what he'd do with France's national hero. Joan of Arc. The predictable result is an overlong, mud-
d lf\d movie that does nothing for her valiant reputation. 
E v e n Besson's keen eye and adept feel for action falter under bad writing and a 14th century atmos­phere that feels no earlier than yester­day. But then again, when 
Milla Jovovich is cast as the picture's heart 
"The Messenger: The Story of Joan 
of Arc" 
out of five shamrocks 
Director: Luc Besson Starring: Milla Jovovich. Dustin Hoffman,JohnMalkovichandFaye 
Dunaway 
and soul. the viewer can't expect too much. 
Joan of Arc was the 19-year-old French girl who was summoned by the heavens to lead the country's weakened army against the invading English. Besson begins the f'ilm with a 13-year-old Joan and her visions from God, following through to her suc­cessful battle campaigns and ending with Joan's capture by the English and public execution. 
Besson 's big question is whether or not the girl was a true messenger from above or a half-lunatic who took several nightmares a bit too literally. After the movie's undramatic heresy trial, Joan is found to be more sinner than saint, and her charred body is less about martyrdom than it is her person­al vendetta against the English. 
Early in "The Messenger," a young Joan returns from Church only to witness a murderous Englishman kill her older sister and copulate with her body. There's no proof that Joan had an older sister or that she helplessly viewed her violent death but for Besson, it doesn't matter: The scene perpetuates Joan's revenge on the invading English. 
It's a good example of how he confuses fact and 
Mother-daughter story is anything but colllplete 


By JULIE HAMILTON 
Asssiscanr Scene Editor 
Many teenagers as well as adults may relate to the sce­narios in the film, "Anywhere But Here." There are 15­year-olds living through the arguments, the agreements and the confusion that Anne (Natalie Portman) experi­ences. Then · there are adults that may remfnisce about 
those same situations with regrets and appreciation. Everywhere there are mothers that should "relate to Susan Sarandon 's role. With tender guidance she attempts to be optimistic and care­free when dealing with her stubborn daughter who just wants to be some­where else. In the absence of a father, Anne is raised by Adele (Susan Sarandon), who tries unsuccessfully to find another male to fill the void. Portman and Sarandon's portrayal of the mother and daughter relationship is starkly realistic and believable. 
The story begins as mother and daughter set out to drive cross-country in a gaudy gold Mercedes Henz that fiction and creates a world where almost nothing is believable. To Besson's crndit, he includes factually based information like Joan's refusal to let her sol­diers use swear words. Unfortunately, the director manages to make the authentic seem phony, and when Joan gripes at her cursing soldiers, it plays like another wasted joke. 
As Joan, it's a miracle Jovovich compels tho French to keep fighting because she can't convince the audience with her cheap emotions. Give her an "A" for enthusiasm, but when it comes to authentic performance, she's lucky that modeling is her real profession. 
A big chunk of the film is devoted to Joan's mes­sages from God, and Dustin Hoffman shows up as her conscience. For a movie that devotes so much time to a character's psychology, Joan remains a messy enigma. When Hoffman appears on screen, he looks just as shocked to be there as the audience 
is to see him. 
John Malkovich makes 
the most of his newly 
crowned king of France, 
while Faye Dunaway is 
his bossy stepmother. 
None of these stars are 
given much to work 
with, and one can 
assume they're all cur­
rently shopping for new agents. 
Fortunately for Besson, action has always been his calling card. But dis­appointingly, the battle scenes lack the splendid choreography of his ear­lier outings. Not that 14th century wars should necessarily be filmed with a shoot-out's grace, but nothing sug­gests the creator of "La Femme Nikita" is devis­ing the action .. 
A crop of wartime gad­gets such as catapults and boiling lead, along with a few quality be­headings are the lone bright spots in otherwise
drab re CreatiOnS Of medieval warfare. 
of residence nor has she secured an occupation. There is a role reversal between mother and daughter that becomes evident when Sarandon continually exhibits irresponsibility in even the simplest of tasks such as pay­ing bills or obeying parking zones. The attitude that Adele possesses concerning money has its moments of absurd hilarity and also annoyance. What is most irritat­ing is how Sarandon embellishes upon her social status, her occupation as well as her (ex) husband's. Anne 
"Anywhere But 
Here" 
out offive shamrocks 
Director: Wayne Wang Starring: Susan Sarandon, Natalie Portman and Hart Bochner 
i\nne eventually admits "changed their lives." Anne is clearly disgusted with her mother's decision to move from the sleepy town of Rayside to flashy Beverly Hills. The young woman is leaving behind her beloved friends and family, including a very special cousin, Benny (Shawn llatosy). The mother is leaving family and a sec­ond marriage behind as well, but more importantly, the small town way of life. 
Upon their arrival in the city of palm trees, swimming pools and movie stars, Adele has yet to establish a place remains straight faced through this habitual lying that occurs on a regular basis. 
Anne's seriousness rarely breaks throughout tho entire film. She is level headed and conscious of many neces­sities which her mother overlooks or dismisses. An endearing trait that Sarandon utilizes when faced with problems is the ice cream factor: When the going gets tough, the tough go to Baskin Hobbins. 
The film attempts to show the char­acters as they go through transforma­tions and make accommodations. Por example, Adele lands a position as a speech pathologist at a less than desir­
able inner city high school. Anne adjusts to her high school fairly well, however the film does not really explore this situation. What the film fails to do is provide an explanation or elaboration on many distracting details. It tries to weave in additional characters to add depth to the storyline, but all that results in is more con­fusion and frustration for the audience. These additions are sloppily placed around the developing plot which becomes murkier as more superfluous details appear. To make matters worse, the central theme continues to nag 

"The Messenger's" redemptive qualities are few. but if anything, one must acknowledge the visuals are at times stunning. The early scenes of a young Joan traveling to confessions are elegant and the ceremony for the new king of France has a large­scale grandeur. 
The cam1ua savvy within Joan's holy visions is surreal and trippy, even though it exists for the sake of being flashy. Normally. Besson's camera work can salvage the movie, but this time, the sup­porting elements are too far gone. 
A lawsuit is pending over "The Messenger" because another director claims Hesson stole the project in efforts to keep his then wife, .Jovovich, as the lead. When the film hit production six months later, the director and his wife had alrc~ady split. After viewing the finished product, one can only wonder ii' Besson still thinks his ex-wife can act and whether or not fighting for her and this picture was such a good idea. 

Photo courtesy of Columbia Tri Star Pictures 
Milla Jovovich stars in "The Messenger" as the revolutionary Joan of Arc. 

Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox Mother and daughter find comfort and frustration in each other in the film "Anywhere But Here" with Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman. 
at the viewers: headstrong Anne is determined to leave her mother behind, yet a dependence remains between tho daughter and mother as well. This is evident of both characters, but we certainly are not shown why this is the case. 
"Anywhere But llere" is reminiscent of the classic "Terms of Endearment" with its portrayal of the love­hate relationship between mother and daughter. Portman genuinely shines in her role as Anne August. Sarandon delivers in her role as a scatterbrained Adele. Unfortunately, there are gaps in the plot that arc not filled by the ice cream solution. 
/; 

M 
cene E .. 
O
THE 

Thursday, November 18, 1999 BSERVER page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Mr. Smith goes to church in 'Dogma' 
Hy MATT NANIA 
Scene Movie Critic 
Fnw conwdies havo al slake the very fate of humankind, but "Dogma," by writer/director Kevin Smith. is not your usual comedy. It is an imaginativP ,lnd surrnul adult. fable hursling with wild ideas, l"nntastical crr.ations and bnistnrously funny charac­tnrs. 
In this sell'-"Dogma"duhb11d "comic fantasia." Bartlnby (B1i11 Al'f'lnck) and loki (Matt Damon) art• l'allcn angels who lwvn s1>1111t all out offiue shamrocks 111' n•i:ordt1d human history tixilnd in 

Director: Kevin Smith

Wisl'.onsin. Wlw II tlw p a i r Starring: Ben Affleck, Matt II' ,ii' 11 th al a I' 11 • Damon, Linda Fiorentino, Chris 
hungry New .!Prspy 
rhurd1 has l'<'sur-Rock. Alan Rickman, Selma Hayek rPt:lPd thP archaic and Jason Lee Catholir practice of pln11ary indul-g1HH"P (hy which 01w is absolved of all sin by merely walking into tlw church), Limy sen it as their oppor­tunity to g1•l. hark into heaven. llowevcr, by return­ing to paradis11, they will Im dnfnating God's will, tlwrd1y d(istroying tlrn whole of creation, which is hasPd upon an omnisdmll and infallible deity. 
Thi' 1111likPly mortal chosen lo intcrcedP. on heav­1•11 ·s h1•half' is Christ's last living rnlativ11, an abortion dinir w111·k(!I' 1rnmPd Bethany (Linda Fiorentino). Mnlalron (i\la11 Hickman), God's go-bctwePn angel. app,~ars to IIPthany and dispatclrns her to New fors1•y to !'oil the angels' plan. Along the way, she 1!11co11ntcrs friends and f'oos of' varying degrees of divinity, all of' whom have their own motivations for aiding or abating tlrn "Last Scion," who is herself 1·oping with a world whPre agnosticism is suddenly 1w longPr an option. 
Th(• g1inius of Smith is that Im Lakes some serious­ly dPIISI! subjncl mallnr and turns it into one of the runniest. f'ilms of' the year, without coming of'f as du\ap nr showy. Tlw film is a comody of ideas. cer­lai nly a ro111cdy of passionatll argument. And the key to it is Smith's trnatmnnt of religion as more familiar than sacrncl, sonrnthing so much a part of his lifo lw can jokn about it and pick at it, zero in on its flaws and quirks and keep asking questions. 
"llogma" is al its best wlrnn it goes on the 11ights of Socratic f'ancy that have charaGttffized Smith's pre­vious films ("Clerks," "Mallrats" and "Chasing ;\my"): pnrhaps no other filmmaker pens such cnl(lr­tai11ing, though oft1m self-conscious, dialogues. Strugglns with f'ailh are convey1!d through the cner­gntic and often poignant exchanges between his hilarious drnract1!rs. 
Though Smith hasn't made grnat strides as a visu­al stylist. his scripting is hettnr than ever. Not only dons Im prnsnnt his usual rants on sex and pop cul-
Box OFFICE 

lure (including an amusing treatise on John llughes' l 980's teen flicks). but his approach to religion walks an amazingly slender tightrope: It's worldly without being cynical and irrever­ent without being dis­respectful. ­
unfortunately, the l'ilm's scale prevents it from achieving the intimate character depth of Smith's pre­vious film "Chasing Amy." Nonetheless, the amazing cast gives the film its pro­l'u n di ty. The chem­istry bntwer-m old pals !\fl1eck and Damon is perfect and each por­trays an angel with distinctly human qualities. 
Damon, surprising­ly. has a great gift for comedy (at one point he sings the theme from the late TV series "Martin") and Affleck convincingly runs the gamut from a thoughtful admirer or humans to a jeal­ous, malicious deity. 
Alan Hickman stands out as a weary and frustrated spokesman for God who still longs for cials, will not be amused by what Smith calls a the tequila he can no longer drink. Chris Hock "parable" and a "trif1e of a 111m." The lampooning of imbues his role as Hufus, the forgotten black apos­Catholic images and the diatribes against church tle, with the same energy and candor that has pro­doctrines (Jesus is said to have been black and God pelled him to stand-up stardom. is represented as a woman) will surely offend some 
And the priceless Jason Lee steals every scene he's viewers. Yet, at the core of this indulgent exercise in in as a demonic hellspawn who casts his lot with spirituality is a deep faith in God, Jesus, salvation Loki and Bartltiby. Fiorentino, however, struggles at and basic goodness. Even when he stoops to toilet first to convey a lapsed Catholic, but her perfor­humor, Smith's eyes look toward heaven. mance eventually keeps the celestial film's center "Dogma" is one of the most pro-rnligious land, planted firmly in the human realm. specifically, pro-Catholic) films in recent memory. 
Sm.ith fans especially will celebrate the return of Though there are well-aimed jabs at the Church, it the gloriously crude Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent is clear that Smith embraces the Catholicism he's Bob (Smith, himself). The duo, who have been seen satirizing. In fact, it is so exclusivtily Catholic that in all of Smith's previous films, become Bethany's some viewers may find themselves left out in the earthly protectors. The two get some of the biggest cold. laughs and, although they seem like unlikely Kevin Smith is indeed a practicing Catholic and prophets, their presence injects the film with an "Dogma" is his attempt to deal with his own ques­engaging comic book sensibility. tions of faith. It is less an attack on the Catholic 
"Dogma" is dearly Kevin Smith's most ambitious Church than an open letter, albeit a comical one, to film and, from the witty introductory on-screen the American Catholic community, provoking discus­notes. the audience is reminded that "Dogma" is, sion. Ultimately, "Dogma" is about the renewal ol' [irst and foremost, a comedy. faith and, despite the packaging, that's a message 
Of course, many Catholics, especially Church offi-everybody can use. 

"Pokemon" debuted 
in the No. 1 slot at 
the box office this Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales 
past weekend. In its 
first five days, the 
cartoon brought in 1 . Pokemon $ 31.0 million $ 50.8 million 
more than $50 mil­
2. The Bone Collector $ 12.0 million $ 35.2 million
lion, surpassinf last 
week's leader 'The 3. Dogma $ 8.7 million $ 8.7 million 
Bone Collector," which dropped to No. 4. The Messenger $ 6.4 million $ 6.4 million 
2. 
5. Anywhere But Here $ 5.6 million $ 5.6 million Pholo eourtesy of Warner Brothers 6, The Insider $ 5.0 million $ 5.0 million 

7. 
The Bachelor $ 4. 7 million $ 14.1 million .. 

8. 
House on Haunted $ 4.3 million $ 14. 5 million Hill 

9. 
Double Jeopardy $ 3.0 million $ 108. 7 million 

10. 
The Sixth Sense $ 2.6 million $ 267.7 million 



Source: Yahoo.com 

T el'!fiU. I2-I4 ­

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 18, 1999 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Braves' Jones named league MVP 
A.,sociated Pre•s 
NEW YORK 
Four swings changed Chipper Jones' season into an MVP year -four home runs in a three­game September series against the New York Mets. 
"I think those four home runs were huge. I"d like to think my name was already on the map 

. beforn that Jones but that

-
kind of jump-started everything," Jones said Wednesday after winning the National League Most Valuable Player /\ward in a landslide. Jones, who hit 45 homers and carried Atlanta to an eighth straight division title, received 29 of 32 first-place votes and finished with 432 points in bal­loting by the Baseball Writers' A.ssociation of America. He also got two second-place votes and one third. "It's awfully hard to believe," Jones said. "To have this in your comer, to always be able to say you won an MVP, is a tremen­dous honor." Houston first baseman Jeff Bagwell was second with one first and 276 points, followed by Arizona third baseman Matt Williams, who had two firsts and 269 points. They were the only players picked on every ballot. Cincinnati's Greg Vaughn was fourth with 121 points and St. Louis' Mark McGwire was fifth with 115, followed by the New 
York Mets' Robin Ventura (113), Mike Piazza (109) and Edgardo Alfonzo (88). Chicago's Sammy Sosa was ninth at 87. 
"Matt Williams is one of the guys I try to he like. Just to be in the hunt with him is an honor in itself," Jones said. "I didn't have a real good first half. Baggy put together a full year." 
Jones, a 27-vear-old third baseman, earn.ed a $100,000 bonus and became the fifth Brave to win the award, joining Bob Elliott (1947), Hank Aaron (195 7), Dale Murphy (1982 and '83) and Terry Pendleton (1991) . 
Jones hit .319 with 110 RBIs, 116 runs, 25 steals and 126 walks. 
He finished third in homers behind Mark McGwire (65) and Sammy Sosa (63) and third in walks; fourth in slugging per­centage (.633), on-base percent­age (.441) and total bases '(359); sevPnth in runs; and 10th in batting. 
After June 15, he hit 30 homers and drove in 79 runs. 
"Most people who watched our team play know what a sig­nificant role he played in our success, especially when the season wore down and the pres­sure got great," Braves general manager John Schuerholz said. "He showed he was a leader of this team and he had what it takes to be recognized as the MVP of the league." 
Jones gained momentum when he homered. four times Sept. 21-23 as Atlanta swept three games from the Mets, who began the series just one game back. 
"Any time I read anything over the last couple of months pertaining to the MVP race, they point directly back to that Mots' series," Jones said. 
With Andres Galarraga out the entire year and Javy Lopez missing the last two months of the regular season and the postseason, Jones at times seemed like Atlanta's only offense. 
''I didn't put any pressure on myself," Jones said. "I knew that teams were going to pitch me carefully and, in certain situa­tions wcren 't going to let me beat them. You can't put any extra pressure on yourself and trv to hit a three-run homer ev·ery time you walk to the plate. That's how slumps get started." 
Jones, who will make $4. 75 million next year, is eligible for free agency after next season but hopes to stay with the Braves -if the price i.s right. 
"My outlook on it is John and 1 will continue to talk," Jones said. "If he and l come to some sort of agreement. great If we don't, we can start talking about it when it becomes an issue next off season." 
Next up is the final baseball award for the season: Voting for the American League MVP will be announced this Thursday. ­
In what's expected to be a close vote, the favorites include Manny Ramirez and Roberto Alomar of Cleveland, Pedro Martinez and No mar Garciaparra of Boston, Rafael Palmeiro and Ivan Rodriguez of Tex.as and Derek Jeter of the World Series champion New York Yankees. 
"My pick, personally, would go to Rafael Palrneiro," Jones said. "I think he had an unbelievable season. That team struggles to make the playoffs if he's not on it." 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Scioscia tentative for Angels 1nanager 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Former Los Angeles Dodgers catcher Mike Scioscia will be hired to manage the Anaheim Angels, a Los Angeles radio station reported Wednesday. 
However, a team spokesman said no announcement was planned. 
"The club remains in the 
process of finalizing its deci­
sion on a new manager," Tim 
Mead said when asked about 
the report by KFWB radio that 
Scioscia will succeed Terry 
Collins. "There is no 
announcement regarding our 
managerial situation at this 
time, and no news conference 
is scheduled." 
Mead did say thr~ Angels hoped to have a new manager in place "as soon as possible." 
Bill Stoneman, hired Oct. 31 
to succeed Bill Bavasi as gen­
eral manager, has interviewed 
seven candidates for the man­
agerial job. 
Scioscia and Joe Maddon, 
who served as interim manag­
er after Collins resigned Sept. 
3, were interviewed Nov. 9 
during the general managers' 
meetings in Dana Point, Calif. 
Others interviewed were 
former Kansas City Royals 
managers Bob Boone and Hal 
McRae, New York Yankees 
coach Chris Chambliss, 
Cleveland Indians minor 
league manager Joel Skinner 
and Oakland Athletics coach 
Ken Macha. 
Scioscia, who turns 41 later 
this month, managed the 

Albuquerque Dukes of the Pacific Coast League, a Dodgers farm team, to a 65-74 record last season. He resigned that position Sept. 20 -after the PCL season had finished -uto pursue options with other major league orga­nizations." 
Scioscia, who played in 1,441 games with the Dodgers and is the team's all-time leader with 1,395 games caught, retired as a player fol­lowing the 1994 season. 
He played with the Dodgers from 1980-92. and was on the San Diego roster in 1993 and the Texas roster in 1994, hut didn't play in a major league game after 1992. 
Scioscia was the Dodgers' minor league catching coordi­nator in 1995-96, and the team' bench coach in 1997­98. 
The Angels finished last in 
. the AL West last season wi.th a 70-92 record. They weni 51­82 when Collins resigned, and 19-10 under Madelon. Bavasi resigned as GM on the lhird­to-last day of the season. Mead did say the Angels hoped to have a new manager in place"as soon as possible." Bill Stoneman, hired Oct. 31 to succeed Bili Bavasi as gen­eral manager, has interviewed seven candidates for the man­agerial job. Scioscia and Joe Maddern, who served as interim manag­er after Collins resigned Sept. 3, were interviewed Nov. 9 during the general managers' meetings in Dana Point, Calif. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character pet day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Free One Bedroom Apartment near  Spring Break SpecialslBahamas  NEED BC TICKETS  www.thecommentator.com  
NOTICES  Campus  Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals!  TICKETS  Call 4-2000  www.NDToday.com  
A family with three children seeks  Awesome  
THE COPY SHOP  tun.energetic student or graduate to live in charming apartment for  Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  HELP MY GRANDPA'S FRIENDS GET INTO THE BC GAME  PERSONAL  Babysitter needed for 4-year old, transportation required. Tues. &  
LaFortune Student Center  FREE in exchange for mutually  Florida  Any tickets?  Thurs. 2:45-7:45 or 5:30-7:45 for  
PHONE 631-COPY  agreeable babysitting responsibili­ $129!springbreaktravel.com  Call 634-4840  Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual  Spring semester.  
www.CopyShopND.com  ties.FaK name.phone# and brief  1-800-678-6386  students of ND/SMC meeting each  Experience with children preferred  
Store Hours  note describing e)(perience and  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT- Thurs. For info call:  but not necessary. Call Beth at  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnighl  interests to Walker at 233-2308.  BALL TICKETS  (877)631-SOUT  254-9060 or email at  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  Phone Cards 669min. $20  271-1526  BLP1975@aol.com.  
Sat: Noon-6:00prn  Free CD of cool indie music when  243-9361 or 258-4805  High-Speed Copies.  
Sun: Noon-Midnight  you register at mybytes.com, the  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK- Color Copies, Binding,  $100 REWARD  
ultimate website for your college  SPRING BREAK 2000  ETS 277-6619  Fax Service, Resumes,  5' by 20' MICHIGAN Banner miss- 
needs.  Business Cards, Laminating,  ing from ND vs UM game.Please  
LOST & FOUND  PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND­ FOR SALE BC & Stanford tix.  & a whole lot more at  Call 4-1854  
•  LOST:  FOR RENT  PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT THE "FUN PLACE"!  Best Prices AM -232-2378  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  Monkeys wanted for shaving and modeling. Must be docile but play- 
Silver Charm Bracelet  TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN­ PM -288-2726  Phone 631-COPY  ful.  
lost in middle of October  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT- Free Pick-Up &Delivery!  
High sentimental value.  HOME FOR  ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE  ND Football tix  Odie, I think I shall call you  
x3727 -Megs  ND-SMC EVENTS.  HARD BODY CONTESTS  BOUGHT & SOLD  Spring Break 2000 Free Trips &  "Shlogsanna."  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  3 POOLS LAZY RIVER RIDE  AM -232-2378  Meals.  
243-0658.  WATER SLIDE  PM -28B-2726  Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad  I love you all. All of you. Especially  
WANTED  3 BDRM DUPLEX  HUGER BEACH FRONT HOT TUB MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES  FOR SALE  os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free Meals &2 Free Trips.Book before  Hebrew Scripture and Team 395.  
REMODELED  UP TO 10 PEOPLE  N.O. FOOTBALL TICKETS  Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!'  Fred, I love you, sweetheart.  
501 EDDY ST.  1 ·800-488-8828  CALL271-9412  1800-426-7710  
:r  FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!!  1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.  WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  www.sunsplashlours.com  Erin, try lo be a good girl al some  
SPRING BREAK 2000  APPLIANCES, W/D.  BUYING AND SELLING NOTRE  point. Oh. and it's not nice to laugh  
273-8332  SPRING BREAK 2000  DAME VS. BOSTON COLLEGE  STUDENT WORK  during Mass. I'm trying to be a  
StuclentC,ty .com is looking tor  Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco,  flCKETS. CALL 289-8048.  Vector Marketing Corp. is now filling  good role model for you. I guess  
Highly Motivated Students to pro- WALK TO SCHOOL  Jamaica & S. Padre  pit cust. sales & service positions.  I've failed miserably. Go figure.  
mote Spring Break 2000'  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com  Reliable TWA flights.Biggest  4 BC Tickets Needed'  Flex. around class.  
 
Organize a small group and travel  232-2595 or  Parties & Best packages.  Must be close to field.  Transfers avail. over breaks.  First floor Zahm:  
FREE!!Top campus  mmm. rentals@aol.com  Book by Dec. 1 & SAVE up to  Willing to pay big $.  $10.55 base-appt. Good resume  Call please.  
reps can earn a Free Trip & over  $200!  Call Brad @ 232-3464  exp. scholarships awarded, cond.  
$10,00QIChoose Cancun,  1.800,SURFS.UP  apply.  Happy, smiling faces on the  
Jamaica or Nassau! 6ook Trips On-Line  FOR SALE  www.studentexprass.com  Need as many BC tickets tor as close to face as possible for friends  call mon-wed 12:30-5:30pm 282-2357  windowsill. A welcome sight for starving, sugar-craving birds.  
Log In and win FREE stuff.  MINT! 46,000 MILES  and family. Help me out Call Brian  
Sign Up Now On Liner  FOR SALE  '92 WHITE SATURN 4 DOOR  at 634-3346  Looking for a unique gift idea?  No one likes a stinky room.  
www.StudentCity.com or  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  SEDAN.STICK.  How about a personalized color pie•  
800/293-1443  $5,800. 217-7185  12 BC GA's. Must sell. Call Dennis  ture calendar?  Mom, that shirt is plaid with a  
CALL 271-9412  1-914-654-9200.  Bring in 12 ot your favorite pictures  ·  butterfly collar.  
If \'OU can bring package from  Color Printer  and we'll do the rest!!!  
Phila/S Jersey to ND, call 272­ FOR SALE  HP DeskJet 682C  2 BC tix wanted. Prefer to upgrade  THE COPY SHOP  
2883  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  $65  to GA, will pay tor tix &all fees, etc.  LaFortune Student Center  Andrea Louise,  
CALL 271-9412  Pat 243-5354  Bill 247-1914  you know who you are.  


Thursday, November 18, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 



-
SHARE THE WARMTH AND SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME! 
THREE weeks still remain to participate in Project Warmth! Do not miss out! Please help make our collection numbers soar with your donation. With your support, arecord number of persons in our South Bend/Mishawaka community and beyond will receive an invaluable gift this winter: awarm coat! 
EVERYONE can participate! 
Please welcome our new collection sites, Decio Commons and the J.A.C.C. (2nd Floor next to ticket office) 
Do not forget, however, about our other dynamic site locations, all eager to accept your coat donation until December 3: 
;~\ ·, . . 
Center for Social Concerns * Hammes Bookstore * LaFortune Information 
,/···.·_ ' 
:;;iit~~~'' . •... 
Desk * RecSports *Alumni Community Service Office *Campus Ministry/
. t -~:.. 1i, 
Hesburgh Library *All Residence Halls * College of Business Administration * St. Michael1s Laundry Distribution Center * Bond Hall * Fitzpatrick Engineering 
11 
Flanner Hall * Galvin Life Science Center 11 Grace Hall * Law School * Main Building* O'Shaughnessy * North/South Dining Hall* ND Federal Credit Union (all branch locations), Student Government Office in LaFortune 
.. 
Sponsored by: 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
St. Michael's G E A R HAMMES BOOKSTORE STUDENT GOVERNMENT Laundry ' • · ' · • ' ·! 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 18, 1999 
NBA 

Odo01 leads Clippers over Wolves, ends losing streak 
shots in the first half, which to play. their biggest lead of the 21 points, but missed a baseline points in the first half and seven
Associated Press 

ended in a 45-45 tie. game. jumper that would have put the points at the ,md of the third 
Utah, which hasn't scored Magic ahead in the final minute. quarter, but outscored the
Lamar Odom scornd 12 of his 

mure than 100 points all season, Scottie Pippen rebounded the Cavaliers 38-20 in the fourth
22 points in the f'ourih quarter Jazz 98 , Knicks 90 
WPnt into a 4-for-15 slump in miss with 21 7 seconds !en and quartf\r.
as the Los Angeles Clippers ral­Karl Malone scored a season­

the second period but still man­the Blazers called timeout and All five starters scored in dou­
lied for an 89-85 victory OVPr high 3:l points and John 

aged to lead 60-42 at halftime. set up a play for Wallace, who ble figures f'ur tlrn Celtics.
the Minnesota Timberwolves on Stockton. fighting a respiratory 

Malone had 20 points and made his game-winner over Ben Adrian Griffin had 23 points and
Wednesday nighL. illness, scored l 7 as the Utah 

Stockton had 11 at the break. Wallace and Tari4 Abdul­11 rebounds, Kenny Anderson
Odom. who played all 48 min­Jazz beat the New York Knicks. 

New York pulled within 36-25 Wahad. added 21 Antoine Walker had
utes, seal!:d the game with a The Jazz made their first 10 

on a basket by Houston to open Orlando squandered its last 11 and Vitaly Potapenko 12 for
running hook shot with 1 b sec­shots and 15 of their first 16. 
the second quarter. The Jazz hit opportunity when Monty Boston.
onds 1.o play. reloasing the shot building a 34-14 lead aftPr 

7 -of-21 in the second quarter Williams' inbounds pass was Boston took its first lead since
just as the shot clock was about almost nine minutes. Utah 

but scored the last six points of stolen. opening the game 2-0 on
to expire. The basket capped a cooled off in the second and 

the quarter for a 60-42 halftime The Magic led 45-38 at the Pierce's 3-pointer early in the
game-ending 23-8 run by the third quarters but it was enough 
lead. half, despite shooting 35 per­fourth.
Clippers, who snapped a four­of a cushion to outlast the 

Malone had seven of his 20 cent. Galling was the reason, The Celtics used a 9-2 run
game losing streak. Knicks. 

first-half' points in tho last 3:12. coming off the b1mch to make all early in the second half to cut
The Wolves out.scored the Stockton, who had 11 assists,· 

The Knicks made it 77-71 six of his shots from the field the Cavaliers' !Pad to 59-56.
Clippers 25-1 f, in the third quar­was listed as questionable until 

after three periods but rookie and going 5-for-5 from the foul Pierce scored six during the run 
-
ter, ending it withal 6-6 run for tipoff but he showed no signs of 
Scott Padgett and Russell line to score 17 points. while Walker, who struggled
a 70-61 lead. But Odom scored the infection, playing 30 min­

opened the fourth quarter with The Blazers, coming olT a vic­shooting 5-for-17, hit a 3-point­
five consecutive points to pull utes. 
3-pointers for the Jazz. tory over Miami in a matchup of' er to get within three.
Los Angeles within 83-80 with Latrell Sprewell had 24 points 

the teams with the league's best The Cavaliers built their lead
2:42 to play. for New York one night after 

records the previous night, to seven, 83-76, to close the
Brian Skinner dunked to pull scoring 26 in a 102-95 victory at Blazers 81 , Magic 79 
missed eight of their first 11 third quarter.
the Clippers within a point, then Denver. Marcus Camby scored Rasheed Wallace hit a turn­

shots and didn't recover until Shaw.n Kemp scored 27 points
Michael Olowokandi hit two rree 18, Larry Johnson had 14 and around jumpur with 1.3 seconds 

Sabonis made his clutch 3-point­and had eight rebounds to lead
throws with 1 :30 left to give Los Allan Houston added 13 for the left, then stole an inbounds pass 

er and Smith followed with a Cleveland. Bob Sura had 14
Angeles its first lead since 7:52 Knicks. on Orlando's final possession as 

layup to give Portland its points, Andre MillPr added 13
remained in Lhe third quarter. Jeff Hornacek and llryun the Portland Trail Blazers held 

firstlead, 77~76, with just under and Danny Ferry 10 ror the
Following a miss by Kevin Russell each had 10 points for on for a victory. 
three minutes tu go. Cavaliers.
Garnett, Eric Murdock convert­the Jazz. who held a 46-33 Wallace had 13 points and 11 

Pippen, who was not on the The Cavaliers used a 13-0 run
ed a three-point play with 49.5 rebounding advantage. Malone rebounds, and 7-foot-3 center 

floor for the play that produced in the first quarter to build a
seconds left to cap a 9-0 run. had 11 rebounds, 10 on the Arvydas Sabonis hit a crucial 3­

the winning basket, scored nine lead the Celtics could not recov­
Joe Smith hit a jumper to pull defensive end, and Greg pointer down the stretch to help 

points on 4-of-12 shooting. er from despite cutting the
Minnesota within two, but Odom Ostertag had eight. the Blazers win at Orlando 

deficit to two points in the third
answered at the other end. It was New York's fourth loss Arena for the first time since 
quarter.
Tyrone Nesby scored 20 points in five games after the Knicks January 1992 and improve the Celtics 114, Cavaliers 103 

Sura scored seven points dur­
and Olowokandi 16 for the started the season with three NBA's best record to 8-1. Paul Pierce scored 30 points, 
ing the Cavaliers' 13-0 run.
Clippers. straight wins. Sabonis finished with 11 including 23 in the second half, 

Kemp scored 16 first-half
Garnett scored 23 points and Utah shot 78 percent (15-of-points and 10 rebounds. Steve in the Boston Celtics' comeback 

points to pace the Cavaliers to a
tied a franchise record with 20 19) in the first quarter, includ­Smith and Damon Stoudamire victory over the Cleveland 

57-47 halftime lead, highlighted
rebounds for the Timberwolves. ing three misses to end the peri­also scored 11 for Portland, Cavaliers. 

by the Cavaliers 13-0 spurt. The
Malik Sealy added 17 points for od. which is off to its best start since Pierce also had 11 rebounds 

run gave Cleveland a 21-6 lead
Minnesota. The Jazz led 34-14 on a bas­the 1992-93 season. and four assists for the Celtics, 

midway through the first period. 
The Wolves made just 18 of 50 ket by Howard Eisley with 3:08 Chris Gatling led Orlando with who trailed by as many 15 


-~--.~ ­
.. --­

Thursday, November 18, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

Assurance Tax Consulting 
Take a giant step toward an exciting career path. At KPMG, you'll find opportunity for growth and recognition as you move along the road to success. 
For more information, check out: www.kpmgcampus.com 
Make your next step as memorable as your first. 

C\999 ny KPMG LLP, the U.S. member l1rm or KPMG lnternat!onal. Wn am an eQUrtl OUpOflunily omplOyer, mJl/dfv 
It's time for clarity."· 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 18, 1999 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Gators fans award Seminoles' Warrick 'Heistman' 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
Peter Warrick almost cer­tainly won't win the Heisman Trophy. In the eyes of Florida fans, though, he's already won the "1999 Heistman." 
A T-shirt depicting wide receiver as the "1999 Heistman" has been a big seller at a Gainesville book store. A leading candidate for the Heisman Trophy before his arrest on theft charges in a shopping scam at a Tallahassee Dillard's store, Warrick is pictured in the T-shirt with a "Heistman" tro­phy and a Dillard's bag in tow. 
Along with teammate Laveranues Coles, Warrick was arrested after paying $21.40 for more than $400 worth of designer clothes from Dillard's. 
Coles, who was kicked off the team, and Warrick are both on probation after plea agree­ments that included restitu­tion, court costs and communi• ty service. 
"It's not like he shot the president," reads the back of the $16.99 shirts -a play on Warrick's first comments after 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Delano, Kinnik sign with Notre DaIDe 
Special to The Observer 
Women's lacrosse high school seniors Kassen Delano and Andrea Kinnik have signed national letters of intent to attend Notre Dame, women's lacrosse head coach Tracy Coyne announced Monday. The two will join an Irish women's lacrosse program that has no seniors entering the 2000 sea­son. 
"Both Andrea and Kassen both come from championship programs that were ranked No. 1 nationally at some point in their career," said Coyne, who recently was named head coach of the Canadian national team for the 2001 World Cup. "They have the kind of experience that we need. Andrea has the flexi­bility to play midfield attack or midfield defense and has good size and speed. We are excited about her ability to come in and spark the transition game. Kassen is a good finesse player with solid stick skills. She reads the games really well and has been well coached." 
Delano, a native of Alexandria, Va., comes to Notre Dame from St. Stephens and St. Agnes School, the same high school as Irish junior Lael O'Shaughnessy. 
She has played defensive wing and midfielder during her three varsity seasons and was an all­league selection as a junior. 
the investigation became pub­
lic: "It's not like I killed the president." 
The Florida Book Store has sold more than 1,000 of the shirts, which are available at other Gainesville stores. 
"They basically flew out of our racks," book store man• ager Nandy Ojanguren said. "It was probably our biggest sell­
er.;; 
Warrick said he expects a lot of ridicule Saturday, when Florida State plays Florida. 
"I've just got to go in there and keep my head straight," said Warrick, who has caught 62 passes for 844 yards this season despite missing two games. He caught a touchdown pass and threw for another score in Florida State's 23-12 victory last year over Florida. 
"You can't hear anything there," Warrick said about noisy F).orida Field. "We've got to go there and stay focused and not worry about the crowd." 
The Dillard's shopping bags are likely to be everywhere in Gainesville. 
"There is always going to be one in the crowd, or 20 or 30, or 100 or 1,000 or 10,000," Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said. "It's according to how many sacks Dillard's got." 

Bowden said the whole deal­has become rather humorous. 
"If you see it, laugh at it," Bowden said. "I laugh at stuff like that. I hope Pete will too." 
Warrick concedes he can't win the coveted lleisman in the wake of his midseason arrest. 
"I know I shot myself in the foot by the mistakes that I made," he said, "I still have a chance to help my team win the national championship and that's what it's about." 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Kentucky advances in NIT 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
No. 14 Kentucky tpok con­trol with an 18-4 run midway through the second half and cruised to a 67-50 victory over Pennsylvania on Wednesday night in the first round of the Preseason NIT. 
With the season-opening win, the Wildcats advanced to face No. 16 Utah in the sec­ond round of the tournament, to be played Friday at Rupp Arena. 
Coming off the bench, fresh­man big man Marvin Stone enjoyed a sensational debut for the Wildcats, leading the team with 12 points and grabbed six rebounds. His rim-rattling dunk with 5:56 
remaining gave Kentucky a 61-44 lead and brought the ·fans out of their seats to 
punctuate thA win. 
Though their attack fre­
quently sputtered. the 
Wildcats got balanced scoring 
and rebounding from up and 
down their lineup. 
Jamaal Magloire had 11 
points and a team-high nine 
rebounds, Tayshaun Prince 
had nine points and eight 
rebounds and Desmond 
Allison had 11 points and 
seven boards. 
A swarming Wildcats 
defense, which mixed in liber­
al doses of a full-and half­
court press, limited Penn to 
just 31.6 percent shooting 
from the field, 26.9 percent 
from 3-point range. 
Matt Langel and Ugonna 

Onyekwe each had 14 points for the Penn, with Onyekwe grabbing eight rebounds. Guard Michael Jordan, who averaged 15.3 points per game last sAason for the Ivy League champions. was held scoreless in the first half and finished with just five points on 2-of-14 shooting. 
With Kentucky leading 38­36 with 13:46 remaining, Saul Smith kicked off the Wildcats charge with a 3-pointer. · 
Moments later, after a fre­netic series of steals and blocks at both ends of the floor, Stone added a short jumper to push the lead to seven. 
After two free throws by Allison and another 3-pointer, this one by Prince, Kentucky led 48-36 and was in control. 

Deiktop ~·J;I ~yCofT1)Uler 
l£ sW'""""i"I
!¥ •1:.:: Hard Dnve. (C:);*~ .' CO.Rom(D:) :.f-Zip Orliie lE} ,;, ... X:Drtve IX I
Are you a political animal? 

a DPublic Doesn't matter. You gotta 
(:]Musk:. MPJs 
.. DHlstory Study Group 
80Prlolaleget this. X:Drive, the world's 
· CJResume first free Internet hard drive on 
DPhotos 
·f f! Nelwork Ne,;tbofhood the desktop. You'll get the kind 
'i-J AecycleBl'I of power you can always use. Anywhere, anytime access from any Web ready computer. 
Let's say you've got a private enterprise (like a term paper, essay, or resume) and you don't want anybody ripping off your intellectual property. Relax. X:Drive files are password-protected. Even ifyou're mooching offyour roommate's computer. Or, let's say you're doing a group project and feel like sharing. Think how much easier it'll be if everyone on the team has access to the same files, notes, and timetables. No matter where they are on cam· pus (or the planet). 
More good news. X:Drive gives you 25 megs of 
space free (that's about the same as the 17 virus-infected 
floppies you won't have to schlep around anymore). 
Which brings up another nifty feature. X:Drive has this 
cool Skip the Download™ technology. It lets you grab 
MP3s, video, and groovy pies from the Web in seconds 
while you keep surfing. 
So join the Party 

at www.xdrive.com. 
X:Drive. It's the best 
freebie on the Web. 


Thursday, November 18, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 21 
student union HAPPENINGS 
STUDENT UNION BOARD www.nd.edu/-sub 
Movie: Wild Wild West. 11/18. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 1030PM. 11 /19. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 11/20. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 11 /18. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
Java and Jazz. 11/21. Sunday. LaFortune Ballroom. 1100AM-0100PM. 
Class dinner (along with Class of 2002). 11 /18. Thursday. Alumni Senior Club. 0530PM-0830PM. 
Grab-N-Give for the Center for the Homeless. 11 /19. Friday. South Dining Hall. 


Tickets: $2. 
~ 
Free coffee, bagels, donuts, OJ, hot chocolate, and Jazz music 
-
by the David Hilliker Jazz Band. 
Band: American Standard 0530-0700. Food: Free Subway subs & wings. 
CLASS  OF 2002  
Class dinner (along with Class of 2001 ). 11 /18. Thursday. Windy City Escapade.  Alumni Senior Club.  0530PM-0830PM.  Band: American Standard 0530-0700. Food: Free Subway subs & wings.  

2/19-2/20. JPW Weekend. Overnight trip including transportation, hotel, & Bulls-Clippers game. Make reservations for 4 roommates at Anthony Travel (basement of LaFortune). $70. Credit card to reserve spot. 
CLASS OF 2003 
Freshman Class Mass. 11 /21. Sunday. Lewis Chapel. 0400PM. With Fr. Newton from Sorin. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Jack Gordon speaking on The Life and Death of JFK. 11 /22. Monday. Carroll. 0730PM. 
OFF-CAMPUS COUNCIL 
-
Boston College Pep Rally. 11/19. Friday. Hats from Adidas will be available for off-campus students at the Alumni Office. 

Voting by each donn and by Student Government 
has narrowed the name choices down to these Final Four 
which will be put to a vote In the dining halls • .'. 
Lucky_Charms • 
-:­
lrlsh Curse 
JACCpot 
JACC-Pacc 
• 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 18, 1999 
Trainers aid sidelined athletes, offer advice for future 

"Although conflicts arise, ! believe the University has the best intentions in each matter." 
Sanders, on the other hand, feels that the medical treatment at Notre Dame operates well. 
"They get you healed. They get you out there and they don't rush you into any­thing either," said Sanders. 
Notre Dame does not take into consider­ation the scholarship status of a student-athlete when deciding his eligibility. nor the impact of the player for his team. Instead, it attempts to look at the playnr as a person, not just an athlete. 

"We always maintain that the welfare of the student-athlete is paramount and everyone proceeds from that," Kelly said. "Anybody that I'm familiar with, tho wel­fare of the student athlete is the bottom line. That is something that is our guiding principle is the welfare of the students." 
-
-
• 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assistant Sports EJitor 
For an athlete. nothing is more disap­pointing than being told he or she can not 
competA. 
"lt's frustrating because you want to 
help your team, but you just can't," senior 
footlrnll player A'Jani Sanders said. "It 
botlrnrs you on your mental aspect, espe­
cially when you've been a starter and you 
know that you're probably the best per­
son at that position." 
Yet the constant strain on their bodies. 
particularly the danger arising from colli­
sions in contact sports, can frequently 
send players to the sidelines with injuries · and illnesses. 
When a Notre Dame varsity athlete sus­
tains an injury, he first SflPS an athletic 
Lrainer. If the injury warrants further 
medical attention, the trainer refers the 
athlete to one of the University team 
physicians, who makes the final decision 
regarding a player's eligibility for compe­
tition. · 
"As athletic trainers, we're in charge of 
any of the health care involved with the 
athletes,"head athletic trainer Jim Russ 
said. "Anything dealing with tho injury or 
illness of an athlete, we are the central 
point." 
Because each team has trainers 
assigned to it. a trainer is often present at 
the time of injury. Consequently. the 
trainer is generally the first point of con­
tact. 
"The trainers are what I call the para­
medics of the sports field," University 
physician Jim Moriarity said. "They're 
always there. We always try to defer to 
the trainers in their initial decision." 
In the event that medical attention is 
necessary, an athlete sees either team 
physicians or community-based orthope­
dic consults. The athlete must receive 
medical clearance to compete before 
returning to play. 
"It would be the consultation of the doc­
tors and the trainers involved," associate 
athletic director Tom Kellv said. "If need 
be, the ultimate decision would be Dr. 
Moriarity." 
Requiring a University physician to 
approve an athlete to practice and com­
pete is standard procedure across the 
country, according to Kelly and Moriarity. 
This system of dealing with injuries is advocated by the NCM. and has been dealt with in numerous court cases, said Moriaritv. 
Referr"ing to doctors for the final deci­sion on athletes' eligibility helps eliminatP, cases in which a coach might put pres­sure on an athlete to perform rngardless of whether he or she is ready or not. 
"I think there's always going to be a certain amount of tension," Kelly said. "Coaches want their athletes to be able to participate, but are also concerned with the well-being of the student-athlete." 
While some schools may have conflicts between coaches and medical experts over an athJP,te's eligibility, Moriarity says the relationship at Notre Dame is fairly smooth. 
"Everyone always talks about coaches pushing their athletes to compete but wo very rarely have a problem with that," Moriarity said "I think of us as being in ~ partnership. We don't tell them how to coach; they don't tell us how to practice medicine.'' 
Women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw is pleased with the system. 
"I think it's in place because the doctors have the expertise to make the decisions that the coaches don't have," McGraw said. "I think it's a great system.'' 
Occasionally, the parties involved are unable to agree on the treatment or the recovery time necessary for an athlete. 
"It's a collective deci­sion,"Russ said. "It's not a decision that's made in a room without the athlete. It's not like it's a blind ... decision. If they object, we talk it through. It's open to discussion, some things are." 
Senior cross country and track runner JoAnna Deeter, who is recovering from anorexia, has had conflicts with the medical staff. However, she also recognizes their attempts to consider her well-being. 
"Conflicting judgments between the medical staff and me about my health and distance performance requirements could not be overcome," said Deeter. 
TIIE :REASONS
. . , . . , . ­
TO ·1'-J\R-TY •ll·l'
. . . . .• 
!EM:o;~E"·S.S:! 
GIANT PARTY SUBS FOR ANY OCCASION! (Please Order At Least 48 Hours In Advance) 
•1706 South Bend Ave (Walking Distance!)243-7738 •SR 23 & lronwood/277-7744 •Indian Ridge Plaza/271-1772 •52577 US 31 N (North Village Mall)277-1024 

Thursday, November 18, l 999 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Deeter 
continued from page 28 
(mling clisordor, which Deeter thought had heun s,•allid. 
/\s a scholarship athlete, she 1Jf)1Hl1irl lo recnivc c:lnaranGe from tlrn Nnlrn Dame doctors to Im all11w1H.i to compet11. But as a recovtiring anor1•xic. Jlpdnr had lwr own support syslnm, inrlucling a psycholo­gist, a nutritionist, trai1wrs, doctors. com:lws ,md her par­
1'111.s. 
This fall, U11ivPrsity physi­cian's opinions ' 
this incident was hinging on pushing me hack into anorexia and I didn't want to go that path l{unning is not important enough to risk going back into anorexia. So that was the rea­son that I had lo quit. They were forcing me to think about issues around anorexia that I didn't wanl to think about, that were not helping me to continue my progress." 
Team physician Jim Moriarity, M.D., said the University attempts to focus on the welfare of the individual, rather than just her athletic ability. Because of Dectcr's 
eating disor­

conf'lil'lml with der, docturs
"Clearly, /Deeter] is a

thosl' of Dt>ntnr had to be ;w<l lwr hmm. fine. fine athlete and careful how "Tl11•rp Wl'rl! thev handled
everyone would love to 

just SOlll(\ (:On-tht; situa­
see her compete." 

flicts that lion. 
could n' L IH! "We have worked otil, Tom Kelly very specific somn JH'rsonal­concerns .for
associate athletic director

ily conf'licls, athletes with sonw co111'licts ca.ting disor­with 11w 1'1iPling likn Univnrsity ders, and we hav(1 a whole Ilealth S1\n·ic1is was not work­protocol we go through," 
ing with nm," D<wtnr said. Moriarity said. "W11 try to indi­"T!wy dllf'iniwly had my best vidualiz11 cases." internsls in mind in their i\ccording to hoad trainer 
mind, but not in my mind. and Jim Huss. t11am physicians not in my family's mind. and have the sole rnsponsibility of not i.11 my ollwr pnopln's mind. dP.ciding whether. an athlete 
"Thr. conflict trir.d to be compotes. workml out for two W<!nks and "Thn physician has to make jusl couldn't," she continued. the medical decision. and a lot " No o ,w c o u I d co m n Lo a n of times, those d11cisions are 1tgr,~1•1111•nt. and I just ldt like made with the alhlet11s," Russ 
it was in my best interest to said. "It's not like it's a blind gt't out or thn situation." decision. If they object, we talk 
University llnaltb SNvicns it through. It's open to discus­wanted lrnr lo continue its sion; some things are." mr.thod of trnalmcnt, while Deelnr and lwr supp()rt team 
Running for her llfe 

thought slw no longer nncdnd Deeter has not competud for 
such an intense approach. 
the Irish since mid-October,

Tlrny thought tlrn University 
and she will not race with the trnatnwnt might r.ven threatr.n 
rest of her team at the NCAA 

lw r r11covr.ry hy bri II gin g 
Championships next week. 

anornxia to llw front of' her 
/\!though Deeter does not see 

mind wlurn slw had moved 
herself returning to the Irish 

lwyond constantly thinking 
l'or track, she said about a 5 

almul hnr Paling. 
percent chance of returning"Tlrny wanted to continue 
exists. 

nwrr. trnat1rnrnt, and I foul like 
"Thal door has not been I'm l'ar <ir10ugh along that I 
closed [to JoAnna's return]."don't nr.,id that trnatment any 
associate athletic director Tom 

morn," lketnr said. "And I felt 
Kelly said. "Clearly everyone

lik<• if I kPpt doing that treat­
wants her best interests at 

mn nl that it would push me 
heart. Clearly she is a fine, back into anornxia. 
fine athlete, and everyone

''I'm fully rr.covr.rnd from 
would love to see her com­

anorPxia," slrn added. "But 
pete." 
Deeter attended the district meet in Terre Haute, Ind., last weekend, to cheer on her friends and tr.ammates. 
''It's extremely disappoint­ing, I thought that I could win an NCAA Championship this year, I really did," Deeter said. "I really fell like it was pulled from under my feet. So it's extremely disappointing, but like I said earlier, that balance is important in life. I did loso something that was dear to me, but I don't want this lo happen to anyone else." 
At districts, the Learn man­aged to qualify f'or nationals behind the performances of' Klemmer and the rest of the Irish squad. 
Deeter began displaying signs of an eating disorder during her junior year of high school. An all-stale cross countrv runner and a four­time ali-statc track selection, Deeter developed her anorexia as an attempt to eat hMlthful­ly and to achieve· her optimal performance. ll soon took on a life of its own. 
"Society's telling you that your optimal performance means that you oat bagels and Snackwell cookies and zero fat, and I thought, 'Ooh, I'll do that,"' Deeter said, "And I did it and I wasn't getting enough fuel. And [ didn't realize that it was taking me over." 
Deeter's anorexia spiraled until she required hospitaliza­tion. 
"It was a jump start, but I thought it was going to be the cure-all," Deeter said. "It defi­nitely wasn't the cure-all, obviously, because that was my senior year of high school, and I struggled until the mid­dle of my sophomore year in Gollege." 
Although many people recov­ering from eating disord11rs prefer to remain anonymous, Deeter chose to go public with her story, appearing in YM magazine and the USA Today. 
"I realized how important it was that people start recogniz­ing this in distance runners and recognizing it in the whole population," Deeter said. "People need to be informed ­information about how horri­ble an eating disorder is and how much it can affect your 
D quirky? 
. Opinionated? 
0 OUTSPOKEN? 
So are we. Visit us at 
www•TRAVELERS•com 
~ 
Travelerslnsurance J 
Amemberof c1t1group 
We ore on equal opportunity employer. 
life and how preventable it is. Not ever falling into it is the first step in prevention. 
"I also didn't want people to look at pictures and see how good I was running and think, I want to be like that.," Deeter added. "I 
wanted them Dame women's
"/t's extremely
to realize coach, told Tim that was not disappointing. I thought Observer, the way to "She's just a
I could win an NCM 
go. Through groat compoti­
Championship this year, I
tho whole lor. She kneps recovery really did. f really Jelt driving herself process. I to succeed.
like it was pulled from 
wanted them Obviously,
under my feet. " 
to realize she's been that I was given a whole recovering." JoAnna Deeter lot of ability, Since her but sho's not
Irish runner 
hospitaliza­afraid to work tion, Deeter and has ovnr­has continued lo fight against como a whole lot of' problems." anorexia, growing tougher in Last year. Dent.er had a the process. break-out season and was 
"I've been through horrible named an All-Amnrican in things, but it's made me a very cross country, indoor track much stronger person," D1rnter and outdoor track. said. "You know. 'Whatcwcr By l'inishing 14th at llrn doesn't kill you makes you NCAA Cross Country stronger.• That's a great Championships, Doctor quote." became the first rnpeal cross 
country All-American in Notro 
Dame history. Sim sot school
A run-away winner 
records in the 3,000-meters,
With the support of her fam­
5,000-mcters and 10,000­
ily and coaches, Deeter devel­
meters in outdoor track. fin­
oped into one of the top female 
ishing among the top four at
runners at the collegiate level. 
nationals in the latter two dis­"For more than three years. 
tances.
I experienced the way the [the Deeter places a premium oncoaches! balanced the success 
team success and unity ovr.r
of the team with what was 
individual accolades, naming
best for me as I worked 
her scl11ction as a team cap­
through many recovery 
tain both in high school andissues," Deeter said. "If there 
college as her grnatest
was any question, they chose achievement.
what was best for me." 
"You can stand up there andAs a freshman. she placed get an award on the podium,
third at the NCAA Cross 
but that goes away so fast,"
Country Championships to 
Deeter said. "But if you're a
capture her first All-American 
leader, there's nothing bettnr
honors. 
than that."
She was again one of the top 
Deeter is no longer sure
Irish cross country runners as whether a competitive racing
a sophomore. That year, career, including the 2000Deeter began to make her 
Olympic trials, is in her future.
mark in track as well. per­
But she knows there is more to
forming well al the Big East life than track.
Championships in the 3,000­
"When I came here,
m11ter run and qualifying for 
lhought that if I ran well,the NCAi\ Indoor would be happy, and as the
Championships. 
years went on, I r11aliz11d
Coaches Joe Piane and 
they're totally separate
Connelly recognized Deeter's 
lhings," D11eter said. "I think
potential early on, and 
to b11 a champion, you have tobelieved she would succeed if realize that."
she could overcome her eating disorder. 
"She has all the potential -in the world," Piane, head cross country and track coach, said in April 1998. "She's a nation­al-class athlete." 
That same season. Connelly, 
the Notre 
Visit The Observer online at 
http://www.nd.edu/--observer 
. STUDY IN , 
, OXFORD 
Live with British students in the very centtn as a Registered Visiting Student of a medieval college with university privileges. 
Summer and g•;aduate study 
Washington International Studies Council 
214 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20002 Phone Number: (202) 547-3275 Free Telephone: (800) 323-WISC Facimile: (202) 547-1470 E-mail: wisc@erols.com www.studyabroad.com/wisc 
-
.. 
• 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November I 8, 1999 
Swimming 
continued from page 24 
tor in the swimmers· improve­ment this year, said senior cap­tain Michelle Samreta. 
"I think we proved ourselves as competitors in the MIAA," Samreta said. "We were more competitive in this meet than I've sern in the past two years. Other teams are going to see this and realize they can't take us for granted." 
Saint Mary's won seven of 13 events, with several swimmers eclipsing season bests and recording times closer to end of the season goal marks. 
Distance swimmers dominated the meet, with the pair of sopho­more Alicia Lesneskie and junior Olivia Smith capturing a 1-2 win early in the meet during the 1,000 freestyle. 
Lowering her previous mark by nine seconds, Lesneskie's 1,000 in 11 :41.29 and Smith's 
11 :49.10 second place finish was enough to hold Albion competi­tors to third, fourth. and fifth place finishes. 
Lesneskie captured another win in the 500 freestyle, narrow­ly escaping Albion's Katie Callan in the last 75 yards of the race. pulling a victory by over a body length in the race's final. moments. 
"I watched her the first 15 laps. and knew she was getting tired," Lesneskie said. "At 17, I pulled ahead, and just sprinted that last 50." 
Other 1-2 teamups for top fin­ishers inch,ided junior Colleen Sullivan and freshman Lane Herrington in the 200 freestyle. 


Sullivan outouched Albion's 
Katie i-lellerman for a finish in 2:05.91, followed by Herrington in second, edging Hellerman and Emily Thompson in 2:07.14. 
Freshman Lauren Smith and Samreta captured another set of top finishl;)s for the Belles in the 200 breastroke, dominating with Smith's first place finish in 2:38.76, followed by Samreta in 2:40.04. 
Danielle Clayton also picked up a pair of wins in the sprint freestyles, winning the 50 in 26.53, and the 100 in 57.76. The 400 medley relay team of Sullivan, Samreta, Lauren Smith and Clayton picked up a win in 4:25.46. 
Outside of the loss, Saint Mary's swimmers posted consid­erable improvement over last week's dual with University of Chicago, Hildebrandt said. 
"We had swimmers take four seconds off a l 00, eight seconds off a 200, 10 seconds off a 1,000," Hildebrandt said. "I expected them to swim fast, but these times are closer to what they would swim tapered." 
Resuming a training schedule that is more physically and men­tally demanding than in years past, the marked improvement could be due to their desire to make a statement that this team isn't going to be an easy meet, Hildebrandt said. 

"They wanted a win," she said. "WP-'re not going to be easy to beat, and [the MIM] knows that now." 
SOFTBALL 
Pitcher, outfielder inked by Miller 


Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame head softball coach Liz Miller announced the signings Wednesday of two high school seniors to national letters of intent. 
Pitcher Kristin Schmidt

-(Houston, Texas) and outfielder Nicole deFau (Southington, Conn.) will make up Notre Dame's Class of 2004. Schmidt, one of the top pitch­ers in the state of Texas for the past two 
Association (ASA) gold national championships, earning second team all-tournament honors. 
"We didn't have a lot of posi­tions to fill, but the one priority we had was to have a dominant pitcher in the class to keep the balance in the pitching staff from top to bottom. With Jen Sharron and Melanie Alkire being seniors next year, that will be a good balance for us." 
The team's other signee, deFau, is a two time all-state 
honoree from 
Southington 
At 
Logan Center 

-Super Specials­**Selected ND Sweatshirts $19.95 (Reg.$49.95) With Purchase** 
•)*Selected ND T-Shirts $9.95 (Reg. $24.95) With Purchase** 
Other Football Weekend Specials  Was  Special  
Champion Varsity Leather Jacket.............. (Awesome Deal) ....  $299.95  $124.95  
Selected ND Hats......................(These GoFast!)...................  $ 24.95  $ 9.95  
ND Button Down Dress Shirt ............. (Khaki, Navy) ................ $ 59.95  $ 29.95  
Hooded ND Jacket with Fleece Lining .......... (Full Front Zip)....  $ 89.95  $ 49.95  

-Check Out the Great Selection of Notre Dame Products at the Logan Center-
Gloves, Banners, Golf Items, Jewlery, Kids and Toddler Items, Helmets, Footballs, Signed Collectibles by Montana, Holtz, Rice, Mayes, Brown, Hornung, and many othe licensed Notre Dame ]terns 

Thursday and Friday Nov. 18th and 19th, 9:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m. Saturday Nov. 20th, 8:00 a.m. until 2:30 p.m. 
Also Tony Rice Autograph and Photo Session Fri. and Sat. 
*Logan Center located south of the stadium at the corner of Eddy and Juniper *Free gifts to first 50 purchases-compliments of Spectrum Sports (309-786-9318) 
years, was a 
"Our expectation is that High School.
first team All­
The outfielder

.. American in Kristin will come in and 
1 e d
1999 and is a 
be an immediate impact Southington to
two-time all­
in our pitching rotation." the team state
state selec­
championship
tion. 
title her fresh-
A senior at 
Liz Miller 
man and
North Shore 
Head softball coach junior sea-
Senior High School, Schmidt had a 19-1 record with 

) 229 strikeouts, only two walks and a 0.05 earned-run average as n junior. "Our expectation is that Kristin will come in and be an immediate impact in our pitch­ing rotation," Miller said. "I think the thing that stands out 
• the most about her is that she has great rotation on her rise ball, which is one of her domi­nant pitches. Plus, she's an intense competitor with great work ethic." 
·schmidt also led her summer team, Texas Heat Gold, to a ninth-place finish at last sum­mer's Amateur Softball sons.while the 
tcaro was the state runners-up in 1998. 
"Nicole is an outfielder who has been here to summer camp, so we've had a chance to see her in a lot of different situations," Miller said. "We're lo9king at her primarily for her speed, and we think she also has the poten­tial to have power offensively." 
DeFau played on the same summer team, the Wallingford Tradition, as current Notre Dame sophomore Kas Hoag. With the Tradition, deFau won the Pony National Championships in 1998 and 1999, leading the team in bat­ting average with a .453 mark. 
Got sports? Call 1-4543 

·1 ·hursday, November 18, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer Senior Jimmy Dillon, shown here In an exhibition game against Marathon Oil, needs to be a key contributor in tonight's game against Siena at the Joyce Center. 

ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET FNTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER.COM 
PUSfflODSTBA.COffl 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 
page 25 
Preseason NIT 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 59-57 
Ohio State 
7:30 pm1--------­
Siena Siena 89-79 Davidson Semifinals MSG 
New Mexico St 
6 or 8 pmNew Mexico St 69-55) Hofstra 
11 :30 pm 1-----------J 
Arizona-Arizona 88-69 
Finals 

Kansas st 
Utah 
Arkansas St Penns lvania Kentuc San Fransisco Ma land Fordham Tulane 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
ter." 
Doherty and the Irish have shown tireless committment to reaching their potential as a team. 
"I want to gel better," he sa.id. "We missed a lot of box outs last night; we didn't exe­cute secondary break like I would like and we're going to get after it. If I have to I'll threaten them. It seems like the number 304 is in the back of their head. That's 304 crossings they did the day after the Marathon game and I don't think they'll want to do that Friday." 
A win over Siena tonight would send the Irish to Madison Square Garden for semifinals of the NIT on Nov. 
23. The Irish, however, aren't looking past the Saints. 
"They're darn good," Doherty said. "Paul Hewitt does a good job, they're expe­rienced. A lot of the things they do well, we struggle with like the press offense." 
"We can't look past Siena," junior Martin Ingelsby said. "They went to the NCAA Tournamr,nt. They have a lot of good players and like to play up tempo basketball. We have to go out there, stick to our game plan and hopefully play well." 
Tip off is sr.hed uled for 7: 30 p.m. 
Jamming the Joyce 
A big crowd is expected to be on hand for tonight's game, but that won't r.hangu the effort the Irish put forth. 
"A jammed Joyce CentPr can help us a lot with our defen­sive intensity and distracting them, no question," Doherty said. "I hope we have a filled house, but if we have just 100 people there, we're going lo play hard." · 
Shot heard 'round the world 
Graves recalled some fond memories after draining the 
9pm Consolation 6:30 
-
15-f'oot jumper that lifted tlrn 
Irish to victory. 
"In your backyard with a wooden backboard and tlw rim bent to the right. and you've got you'rn one littl11 spotlight at 11 o'clock at night. That's what I did," Gravos said. "That's what evnryone has done. You just count down. I was lucky to have the ball. I looked Lip at the clock at il said 5.7 sec­onds, I was 35 fpot away from the basket, I had to do some­th in g with it. Michael Hedd gave me my left, I saw llarold sneak up and I went off the screen and hit the jumper." 
Priceless 
Doherty and tlw Irish wen• overwhelmed with words of encouragement aft(lr the win over the Buckeyes. 

"When you get the win all of a sudden people take notice," he said. "Everyone today, tlrn kids were talking about all the emails they got. I got 4~ emails. I got faxes !'rum Carolina and Kansas. Boy, it's exciting, but we've got to put that on the shelf. Wc'v1i got work to do today. but I don't want to be a one hit wonder. I want to build on this and grow and ride this momentum into ­a win tomorrow." 
lie wouldn't trade the foel­ing of his victory for anything. 
"Coach Williams used to say, you could put a million dollars on the floor, but would you trade it for tho fnelings, the facial expressions and the enjoyment you got f'rom those kids? No way. You can't put a dollar value on those moments in tlw locker room after a big win." 
Graves and the rest of tlrn Irish were at a loss for words. 
"We really couldn't say any­thing," he said. "Wt\ were all just smiling Lim whole time. We knew as a team that wo could go in there and com­pete. And if we can com1wte with anyone, WI\ have a chailce to win. The family atmosphere in tlw locknr room is just unbelievable and that can take you a long way." 
Come support the Irish and pack the JACC 

-·---­page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 18, 1999 
It's our turn to return the favor 
Twenty guys crammed in a small section lounge on the edge of our seats. 
Our eyes wNe glued on the 
television; our brows were full of sweat, our mouths were silent. What had begun as the four of us watch­ing head basketball coach Matt Doherty's debut, not expecting to win, but just 

-
-hoping to look respectable, slowly evolved into the scene that took place. The intensity was something that we haven't felt in a long time, sonrnthing that comeback wins over Navy and Oklahoma couldn't provide. The ball was inbounded and jogged up the floor. Was 12 seconds too long to hold vour own breath? WA were about to see, because no one wanted to breathe. The sec­onds ticked down. It appeared as if the team was confused, in disarray, unaware of the clock. As five seconds approached, no shot was in sight. "Shoot it!" yelled a fan in the corner. breaking the silence. "Don't run out of time," screamed through my head. "I've seen that enough this year!" The ball went to David Graves. He dribbled to his left, lost it and got a shot off. A collective gasp came as the section lounge crowd rose to their feet, fingers clenched, mouths wide open. Pandemonium! The lounge turned into a pile of guys jumping on the couches. hugging, pounding the ground. There was yelling and screaming, but the most dominating noise of all wasn't a noise at all. It was a quiet understanding among us all. We're back! With one shot Graves erased from our col­lective memories the pain and agony we've had to Andure at the hands of five 
other football teams this year. That one shot finally gavr, us something to cheer about, finally gave us what we've been craving for three months. 
That one shot finally announced to the world that we're back. 
Coach Matt Doherty preached it since the day he arrived on campus. He's visit­ed virtually every dorm, often foregoing dinner and time 


.. 
with his family, to plead us to come. If we come out and support our team, making the JJ\CC the difficult place to play that it used to be, he'd put a product on the floor that would make us proud. If we got a little crazy, he'd provide results. 
Little did we know that his promise would come true in reverse order. Graves's shot turned Doherty's statement upside-down. He's put the product on the Boor already, now we havo to respond and get a little crazy. 
The game tonight against Siena in the JACC is the 1rnr­fect opportunity to show the college basketball world what the new Irish basketball pro­gram will be like. It's the per­fect opportunity to announce to the Big East that they have a new member this year. The "Old Notre Dame" left with coach John McLeod and the "New Notre Dame" arrived with coach Doherty. 
ln case you didn:t notice, this team is good; this team works hard; this team is exciting. Did anyone else see Troy Murphy leap through the air, catch the al!ey-oop from Jimmy Dillon and shake down the thunder Murphy style? Did anyone else see Graves and Martin Inglesby stand outside of the three­point arc and knock down threes causing many of us upperclassmen to ask, Keith Friel who? Did anyone else see Harold Swanagan taking charges, battling for rebounds, and shooting fear­lessly over one of the best shot:blockers in the nation? 
Sure we had some mis­takes. We can't continue lo turn the ball over 25 times and hope to win. We can't get out-rebounded as bad as we did and hope to win. 
We can't expect to win every game. It's way to soon to call this season a success because of one huge upset. The beautv of the "new" Irish is that they won't. They expect more from this season than just a few upset victo­ries. 
BOOK SEARCH 
* 
Used, rare and out­of-print books 

* 
Initial cost of $2.00 

* 
Nationally-circulated ad 

* 
Success rate of 50% 

* 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 r21 m 232-8444 
Rut as fans, we owe it to them to show our apprecia­tion for their performance last Tuesday. Join the band­wagon. No one cares if you're there solely because we are good this year. We only care if you're there, period. 
Let yourself go crazy. If not for the sheer enjoyment of having a good team to root for, use it as some sort of therapy for a football season­gon e-terribly-wrong. 
Discard your excuses! No more having too much work. No more wanting to go out later. No more, 'Tm not going because the basketball team isn't any good!" 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team's victory over Ohio State Tuesday night just took away any convenient excuses you had for not attending tomorrow's game. 
Be there. You won't want to miss it. 
The uiews expressed in this are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Ol>seruer. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Louderback recruits USTA-ranked players 
Special to The Observer 
Caylan Leslie and Alicia Salas, two nationally ranked junior players, signed national letters of intent to attend Notre Dame, women's tennis head coach Jay Louderbar,k announced Monday. 
"We are very excited with the addition of Caylan and Alicia," said Louderback, the 1999 Big East conference coach of the year. "We feel like both will have a chance to make an immediate impact on the pro­gram. Caylan is one of the top players coming out of the juniors. She has a very good lefty fomhand that will be a big weapon and will be good for our other players in practice. Alicia plays a solid all-court game and is not afraid to come to the net and volley. She will be a very good doubles player for us also." 

Leslie, a native of' Newport Beach, Calif., brings a wealth or experience to Notre Dame with a United States Tennis Association national girls' 18 ranking of 19. She currently is a senior at Corona del Mar lligh School, th.e same high school as Irish sophomore Nina Vaughan. Leslie will enwr Notre Dame just after the graduation of current senior Sarah Scaringe, the only !ell-handed player on the team. 
Salas, a native of Engelwood, Colo., hails from Cherry Creek High School, a perennial tennis power in Colorado and is ranked 76th in USTA national rankings. 
She enters her senior year having won three state singles titles and will be looking for her fourth in the spring. Only r,ur­rent Irish sophomore Becky Varnum, from Colorado Springs, C:olo., won four C:olorado lligh School singles lilies. 
The multicultural Student ftffairs Office 
6 
The ftfrican 6 ftfrican-flmerican Studies Program proudly present 
African Dance & Drum Workshop 
By 
Boynarr Mamadou Sow, Master Instructor of West-African Dance & Drumming from Senegal 
Dates & Time: 
Friday Nov. 19 @ 4:30 PM 
& 
Sunday Nov. 21 @ 3:00 PM 
Venue: Ballroom/Lafortune 
CO-Sponsors: Office of the President & Campus Ministry, Kellogg Institute, Center for Social Concerns, Music Department, Peace Studies Program, International Student Affairs Office, and Graduate Student Union. 


CHAHPI ONSHIP 
Friday, 
rbber 19th #5 Notre iiS Stanford 7:30p irfield 
ts Free 

t::1t-:-1r.:;-t-::-"111• ..  Beguine"  33 Come to pass  52 Quizmaster  60 From K.C. to  
bandleader  34 Blokes  Trebek  Little Rock  
12 Teetotaler's order 13 He and she 21 lots -+-+--+-~ 22 Preoccupy =-t-=-t-::-r:-1 25 Spa, say 26 More or less 27 Cha-cha cousin 29 Blame  36 "Never mind!" 37 Noise 39 Comforts for car passengers 40 Formerly 45 Strengthen 46 Aviator Earhart 48 Pillow covers  53 HardY cabbage 61 Neptunians and 54 Plain others Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
30 Wide open  50 Small boat  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

Thursday, November 18, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 27 JEFF BEAM
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 



Fox TROT 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

beam.1@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 House of the 57 '"Tis a pity" City near the Seven Gables 58 Off yonder Red Forl< oil 59 "You win" 
site fields 35 Terza rima 62 Soften 
rhyme scheme 

6 Star bear 63 Certain bond,
36 Smelt residue 

10 "Hey. You. Yeah, informally 37 "Dreaming of 
you!" 64 End of the 
You" singer 

14 Start of a query response to a practical 65 Donald and 
38 End of the tailor Ivana, e.g.
query 41 Chutzpah

1S Coll. offering 66 Went like the 42 They can be dickens
16 "This isn't sweet
looking good ... " 67 "Cruel" 
43 Part of goddesses17 Schubert's Madame's"Mass In address

major" DOWN 
44 Exit huffily, with

18 Chinese nurse 1 Ambassadors
"out" Club carrier19 Wither away 45 Sucrose source 2 Broadcast20 Query, part 2 46 They may have signal type 23 To's partner it 3 Song bit 24 Senator from 47Climb 4 Crooks, e.g.

Virginia 49 Doctrine 5 Lady Nancy 25 loud hits 51 The tailor's 6 Caspian feeder 28 Sideless cart response, part 1 
7 Easy win 8 Like van Gogh's ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE night 9 Blessing 
Puzzle by Kelly Clark
preceder 32 ''Tum on, tune 51 She "charmed 55 Desiccated
10 It gets a big in, drop out" the husk right head 
advocate off of the com" 56 Legal matter -'.'t::::+;+.;:+;~.t:+.::-1'!!'~ 11 "Begin the 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name Address City _______State ___Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS insightful. 000 
DAY: Linda Evans, Elizabeth VIRGO (ALlg. 23-Sept. 22): You 
Perkins, Kevin Nealon, Brenda Vac­must channel your energy wisely. Do 
caro, Margaret Atwood things that will help you better your­
Happy Birthday: You'll be empa­self. Physical activities will lead to 
thetic when dealing with others this greater self-esteem. You can com­
year, which will bring you loyalty plete hobbies if you put your mind 
and help in return. You can turn toilOOO 
some of your ideas into a tangible LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You 
commodity. The more you get will be upset with someone you live 
involved in, the better your chanres with. You may want to take some 
will be to achieve the success you time to decide how you feel about 
want Take a chancr and follow your the relationship you're in and your 
dreams. Your numbers: 6, 19, 22. 25, partner's way of: treating you. 000 
34,40 SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Find 
ARIES (March 2.1-Aprll 19): ways to cut your costs when it romes 
You're in the mood to party. Make to gifts, enltttainment and the whole 
arrangements to meet friends at your festive season. li you t111e your inge­
local hangout. You are likely ID meet nuity, you can come up with ideu 
an interesting individual you'll want that will impreas everyone. 00000 
to get to know a lot better. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You n): You will be in trouble ifyou have 
need to drop all tru»e jobs that have been evading issues regarding your 
been keeping you busy and take penonal intentions. It is best to sit 
some time out to enjoy friends and down and open up to the one in 
lovers. Organize a get-to~r that ~n.You will have ID be p~. 
will help start off tiie festive season. 
0000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
GEMINI (May n-June 20): This Emotional difficulties will surface if 
will be an adventure-filled day if you you haven't been completely hooest 
are p~to cast your fate ID the with yourself or your partner. Go 
wind. You need to cut looee and have over some of the put occurrences 
some fun. New relationships may before malcing a decision. 0000 
develop.00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep your personal secrets to your­
Social events will encourage roman­,elf. New love interests will unfold if 
tic encounters, but deception within you join ~ups or clubs. Your high 
relationships is evident. Don't let ~ will lead you down new and 
yourself be taken in by someone who exciting avenues. 000 
isn't trustworthy. 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-Marclt 20): Take 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Romantic it easy; you need rest and relaxation. 
opportunities will develop through Your nerves are frazzled, and it's 
organizational activities. You can probably been a long time since your 
make financial gains through last vacation. Spend some time with 
group ventures. Time spent with your mate. 000 
children will be rewarding and 
Birthday Baby: Your need to do things your way will be met with opposi• lion. Your surefire way of taking charge and doing can lead to success as long as you learn to take heed of the advice given by others along the way. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
<C 1999 Univer.;al Press Syndicate 
• 

PORTS 

November madness? 
Brian Churney recounts watching the Notre Dame men's basketball victory over Ohio State Tuesday. 
page 26 

Thursday, November 18, 1999
page 28 
Deeter races for her life 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assistant Sports E.ditor 

-When senior Irish runner JoAnna Deeter began her four years at Notre Dame, she had her sights set on winning national championships in cross coun­

try and track. 
But to attain her goals. Deeter would have to do more t h a n 
Deeter a c h i e v e 
greatness on the track. She would need to continue along the path to recovery from anorexia ner­vosa. a potentially deadly eat­ing disorder which she said 
had a "dramatic effect" on her life. 
"It's been a horrible thing," she said. "As a distance run­ner. you can fall into it really easily and it can progress really fast. It was seriously just a snowball effect." 
Deeter thought that she had put her anorexia behind her. only to have it brought to the forefront this season as con­flicts arose between her and team physicians over her treatment. 
"Basically, the medical team worked with JoAnna," associ­ate athletic director Tom Kelly said. "At a certain point, there became an impasse regarding their recommenda­tions. We met with JoAnna and her parents, and again, the bottom line was the med­ical team's advice based on her welfare." 
Earlier this year, Deeter appeared well on her way to her best season ever. She brought home individual titles in the adidas/Notre Dame Invitational and the National Catholic Invitational. and showed no signs of letting up. 
Then. her race toward a

• 
national championship, the first ever by an Irish woman runner. came to a crashing halt. 
The first obstacle was a sprained foot arch in mid­October. But a minor injury morphed into a season-stop­ping, if not college-career­

• ending injury. Deeter was sent to physi­cians at University Health Services, who reopened a set of concerns about DeetPr's 
see DEETER/page 23 
OTHE BSERVER 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Saints come marching to JACC 
. Notre Dame plays host to Siena in second round of Preseason NIT 
By BRIAN KESSLER Spurts Ediwr 

Whnn Matt Doherty took the head coaching job at Notre Dame last March. he promised to return Irish basketball to its glory days. 
After one game, he has done just that. 
Notre Dame's shocking 59-57 victory over No. 4 Ohio State Tuesday night has Irish fans 
c a g e r I Y Preseason NIT 
awaiting 

t o n i g h t • s Second Round s h o w d ow n Notre Dame vs. Siena with Siena in 
the second round of the . Where: Joyce Center 
Preseason 

. When: Tonight, 7:30 p.m.
NIT. 

"We went into one of the top teams in the country's place and we won," sophomore forward Troy Murphy said. "It's a great feeling, but we have to get prepared for tomor­row. We have to put forth the same type of effort." 
Doherty conducted a three and a half hour long practice Wednesday and has his players in the right mindset. 
"If you think you've done something big yesterday, you haven't done much today," Doherty said to motivate his team. "If we enjoy this too much, we'll be 
licking  our wounds  come  Thursday  
night."  
Doherty  and  the  Irish  had  just  

Wednnsday to prepare for the Saints. but the first-year coach hasn't wasted any time. 
"I got back to my house at 5 in the morning !from Ohio State] and got up at 7 and we started grading film at 8:30," he said. 'Tm always cautiously opti­mistic. I try to enjoy the moment, but I'm always looking ahead. I'm looking. first and fnrnmost, to getting this team bet-
see IRISH/page 25 

SMC SWIMMING 

Belles regain colllpetitive spirit in MIAA 
The statement was well taken ent points during the meet, the
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
when the Belles started ofT the Belles fell to Albion by only 14 
Saint Mary's Editor 
meet with three consecu ­Winning may not have been in live wins in the cards for the Saint Mary's 
the 400 med­swimming and diving team on ley relay. the Tuesday night. but rewriting the 1,000 freestylPhistory books was. 
and the 200 Having notorious luck at fail­freestyle, step­ing to notch victories in the 
ping up in a MIAA conference the past two little morn years, Tuesday's meet made a competitive statement that the 1999-2000 
manner than 
"I was scared the whole meet. This team is a lot more competitive than I've ever seen them. " 
Keith Havens 
Albion head coach 
points. leaving the final score at 128-114. 
.., 
was scared the whole meet," Albion head coach Keith Havens said after the con­clusion. "This team is a lot 
team is not a squad that wants the Albion team was used to. more competitive than I've seen to be taken lightly, said head Rotating leads at four differ-them." coach Gretchen 1-Iildebrandt. 

But even 14 points short. the score makes a statem,~nt. Hildebrandt said. 
"We don't want people to be saying, 'This is Saint Mary's, we can take it easy tonight,"' she said. "I want coaches to tally up the meet and say, This is going to be closr,_' We want swimmers to come out here and swim their fastest against us. They're not going to take us as a joke? We're not." 
Having time to adjust to the MIM conference may b1! a fac­
see SWIMMING/page 24 
NCAA Third Round Women's Swimming Women's Swimming vs. Boston College >ii vs. Stanford ar Minnesora lnvirational ~ Walbash College Invite ,~ Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. Friday-Sunday Saturday, 10 a.m.
SPORTS • 

ATA NCAA Track and Field Women's Basketball • Volleyball vs. Toledo Championships ~ ar Raldwin-Wallace College Big East Tournament Srmifinals Saturday, 6 p.m. Friday-Saturday Friday Saturday, TBA Saturday, 12 p.rn.
GLANCE 
• 






