
811 Eas, 1111 
Take me to your leader 
Tuesday

¦ Coverage of the women's 68-61 victory 
¦ Look inside for results ofSaint Mary's and Notre 
over Rutgers in the Big East Conference. 
MARCH 2,

Dame class elections. 
Sports• 16 
News• 6 
1999 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 100 WWW. N D.EOU/-OBSERVER 
¦ 


Members vote to invite trustees to sexual clause forum 


SMC aims for more diverse facuity and student body 
By JESSICA DELGADO 
New, Wrirer 
On Thursday, Feb. 18, the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees discussed the lack of diversity within tho student body and faculty. 
"For students and faculty, it's a loss bncausn tlw richnnss of the experinncfl is partly rletcrminod on how rich the environment is,'' said Dorothy Feig!, vic1• prPsid1mt. and dPan of !'acuity at Saint Mary's. 
are people of color, according to rccont studies. 
"What could possibly be unattrnctlve f'or minority professors is the fact that they have to be the barrier breaker. This becomes a burden because they become the only one that is a rnprcsen­talive for a whole category," said Poigl. 
Without recruiting programs for minority professors, minorities nre not always rcprosontod. For instance, in 
Suggnstiuns that roso ''C'\)R STUDENTS AND 
f'rom tlw board mooting 
r FACULTY, IT'S A LOSS 
includncl beginning co­exchange programs BECAUSE THE RICHNESS OF 
with othnr Amerien.n 
THE EXPERIENCE IS PARTLY 
and international col­lcgPs. It also suggested DETERMINED ON HOW RICH 
using morn clin•ctori"s THE ENVIRONMENT IS.' that include rninoritil"s 
t.o rnc;ruit professors to servP as rol(? rnodtds for Do1WTHY FEIGL 
minority students and SA/NT MAur's ncE PRE"SIDENI' 1wrmil for an accuralP 
AND DEAN OF FACUI.T'l
portrayal of a diverse world in tlw collPgialo California Mexican-Americans represent one quartM of th<" pop­ulation but some branches of t.he University or California still have only one Mexican-American fac­ulty member. 
According to a report in The Minnesota Daily, having professors with similar ethnic back­grounds as their stu­
dents makes some stu­d on ts feel morn com­
fortable in the class• room. With this in 
Slltling. mind, stud,mts havH taken measures to 
"lles,mrch slwws t.lrnt students are increase numbers of minority faculty at.tractnd to mnnlors that. aro likn members at their institutions. thorn," said Susan Alnxander, Saint "The effect lhnl 11 lack of diversity has Mary's assistant profossor of sociology, on students is the scarcitv of mentors to anthropology and social work. look up to; not only to guide them "Whether it be racr., snx or snme moral through college, but help them out with b£>1ict:,;." future plans In their life," said 
Nationally. only 10 percent of profes­Alexander. sors on university and colhige campuses 
see DIVERSITY/ page 4 
By FINN PRESSLY 
News Writer 

Dcbaln about a resolution to invite the Board of Follows to an open forum rngarcling tlrn non-discrimination clause con­tinued at Monday's Campus Life Council meeting. 
"If a group this size could spend an hour discussing this issue, it speaks to the ne(id of having a discussion on this issue," said Stud(rnt Union Board manager Byan Stncz, referring to the lengthy dobatn that occurred at tho prnvious meeting. 
lie also added that people have nxpressed that tlwy have "no reason to bnlieve the Board of' Fellows have clonn any research on this." 
Father William Seetch, rec­tor of Morrissey llall. said he had seen proof of' the Board's research in a report that detailed the non-discrimirrn­tion policies of 48 Catholic col­leges and universities. 
"That looks like research to mo," said Seelch. 
"If I thought such an invita­tion would solve such an isswi, I would gladly vote for it, but I don't s1rn that l111p1wning in nny f'orrn," said assistant vicP­prnsiclcnt for Hcsid1111cn l.il'e 
Bill Kirk. 
"Wn'rn just looking for a chance to say, 'Why did you do this'!"' said Brian O'DonoghuP, KPotrgh Ilall senator. 
The nisolution passed with 12 votes in favor and thrnn opposed. 
In other CU: 1rnws: 
•Tlw Council also passnd a ri>solution to includn Lh1• Acacllimic (;uide in this year's duLac rnvisions and Kirk gave an overview ol' thn upcoming rnvisions. 
"Students should know tlwir rnsponsibililies as Wl'II as tlwir rights," said Tim 1-'itzSimons, whose Academic CommitlP<' presented tlrn rnsolution. 
"Tim use and abusp of air.o­ho! a.re sornnlhing W!\ must constantly be evaluating. Otlrnrwise. we wouldn't Jrn doing our job," said Kirk, adding that tlw committ,w also expncts lo investigate off-cam­pus ,wonts as wnll as sParrh and seizurn policies. 
see CLC / page 4 




USA Today names Taylor an academic All-American 

By ANDREW MCDONNELL 
News Writer 
Sarah Taylor, a Farley llall snnior, has b1wn rncognizecl by USA Today as a sec­ond-team All-American on the I1)9') All­USA College Acadnmic Team. 
Taylor, a doubln major in biology and psychology, has lrnnn rncogniznd numer­ous times for lrnr outstanding work at 
Notrn Danrn. 
"I found out last Tuesday, and I was rnally surprisnd," Taylor s;1id. "I didn't expect it al all." 
Tlw award is grantnd primarily on tl11• basis of acadnmil' nxcPlhin('.<i hut also sunks to acknowlndgn stuclPnts who simultarwously dnmonstratn nrnrit in loadnrship, public snrvicP, <ixtranrrricu­lar activitins and the production ol' an original int,dlt•ctual product. 
Taylor's accomplishmPnts in all of tlrnsn arnas Wt!rt' imprnssiv11 t•nough to make her orw ol' only 20 studnnts nanwd to the snrond team, out ol' tlrn 1warly 1,000 uncl1•rgradualPs who WPrP nomi­nallid for !Im honor. 
She is a mnmlHir of' th1• Arts and Lnttnrs/Scinncn Ilonors Program and has maintained a :t8 grad!\ point. avPrag.i. 
Sim was also a nominnn l'or thn Marshall and Hhodns scholarships and has rnceived narly dncision admission to the Baylor Collcgn of M1)dkirrn. 
In addition to lrnr academic accom­plishnrnnls, Taylor has lwnn Pxtrmnely active in a widn range of extracurricular activities. 
She is a member ol' llrn women's water 
see TAYLOR I page 4 

page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

Two apples!?! 
They've been called the North Dining Hall Gestapo, and if you Jive and eat over on that side of campus, you know who I'm talking about. 
Thnre are the men and women who sit by the doors with an eye on the fruit racks spying on anyone who looks like they're lingering too long, or might be taking two pieces of fruit. 
There's the guy who stands by the main door into the food area keep­ing an eagle eye on the Tim Logan muffins a.nd other pas­Associate News Editor tries. 

There are the nice women, affectionately termed the "dining hall ladies,'' who scan students' IDs when they come in the doors. Now their responsibilities include checking departing students for the tell-tale bulges that give away those extra apples shoved into pockets. 
N1wer mind that it's all-you-can-cai inside tho Dining Hall; these folks an: here to stay and determined to make sure that you only bring one piece of fruit or pastry out of the building with you. 
Yes. thal's righl, North Dining llall is really doing its part to crack down on campus crime. Theft of apph~s, muffins, silverware and more must have reached epidemic proportions, because now there's no way you're getting out of there with more than one item. There are many tales of their efforts to stop theft ­through both prevention and punishment. 
Apparently, they have been interrogating the Zahm residents who sit on the upper level about theft of dining hall items. These people are known troublemakers -often yelling and carrying on -and they surely pose a threat to the efficient food distribution machine that is North. 
Purthcrmore, I've heard from someone in the know that a student was recently ordered by a dining hall manager to open his backpack on suspicion of theft. 
This delinquent student, shamefaced and cowering before his apprehender, reached into his b,tg and pulled out about two dozen nap­kins, which he had foolishly hoped to sneak back to his dorm room. 
The napkins were immediately confiscated and the student was reprimanded for his inso­lent behavior. Surely, he will never act with such impertinence again. 
Now the word is out. 
Gone are the days when you could sneak out a tray, a bag of cereal or even a chair without anyone noticing, or caring if they did. 
People have stolen glasses, bowls, and all manner of dining hall paraphernalia in the past, but not these days. We North Quad resi­dents have to bring our own eating utensils l'rom home for thosH dorm room snacks. We can't count on dining sets from North any more. 
Apparently they have cracked down at South too, but not to the same extent. rt is clear, how­ever, that this year's new backpack policy is helping that dining hall's managers combat the theft of items small and large. They certainly don't want to lose the snazzy blue plasticware that was introduced this year. 
Regardless, it is becoming ever more appar­ent that Food Services is determined to get the most out of our room-and-board dollar. That's good for them -after all, they arc taking a financial hit to bring us the Flex14 plan -but for those of us who lack our own silverware, it's been a rough adjustment. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily thm,;e ofThe Obgerver. 
¦ Tontw's STAFF 
News Scene Christine Kraly Loubel Cruz Brad Unriedc Graphics 
Sports Scott Hardy 
Mike Connolly Production Viewpoint Colleen McCarthy Tara Churik Lab Tech 
Joe Stark 

Thr Observer (USl'S 599 2-4000) is ptibli.1hcd Monday through Friday CX(Cp! during, exam and VJ.(;ail011 period~. The Ohscrvcr i~ a mcmLer of du: A~~o\.'."i~acJ r,c~>. All rcproJucrion right> afe rcscrvi.:d. 
Tuesday, March 2, 1999
The Observer• INSIDE 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Students perform to protest Disney use of sweatshop labor 
PAYETTEVfLLE, Ark. 
Members of the Campus Democracy Collective performed an ad-hoc theater piece to protest Disney's use of sweat­shop labor at the Dism~y corporation's college recruitment session at the Reynolds Center recently. 
Tied together with a rope, six mem­bers of the CDC performing as dwarfs along with "Mickey" performed "the Seven Dwarfs go to the Third World" to demonstrate how the products made by and for the Disney corporation are actually made in front of the Reynolds Center. 
The dwarfs, named Overworked, Underpaid, Forced Birth Control, Child Labor, Once a Labor Organizer now just Bloody and Stumpy along with "Mickey," who wore a pin saying "l love sweatshops," sang a parody of ''Hi Ho" while walking in and around the Heynolds Center. 


UNIVERSITY OF 

ARKANSAS 
"Hi ho, hi ho, for pennies a day we sew. and if we ask for higher pay, it's out the factory door we go," they sang, periodically stopping to givA their indi­vidual performances. 
The individual performances culmi­nated when "Mickey" said, "I love sweatshop labor; let's start a union." 
The protesters were banned from entering the building by the University of Arkansas Police Department. 
"The building is still private property and we can keep them out," said Sgt. Greg Foster of the UAPD. "We don't want to infringe on their rights to say what they want. but we have lo keep them out of the building." 

"It's OK,~ said the dwarf' Overworked. "We've been locked out of factories before." 
Several other students, who wish to be referred tu by their aliases, were asked to leave for asking questions about Disney's possible use of' sweat­shop labor. 
Special agent Oncomouse inquired whether there "were internships avail­able for the women in Haiti who work pennies an hour." 
A campus representative immediate­ly said that this wasn't the proper forum and that they would have to leave. 
Special Agent TS-1 responded by calling the three Disney rnpresentatives "robots hired to get clrnap, educated janitors and soda jerks for your theme park," 
¦ HARVARD UNIVERSITY Men's clubs institute stricter policies 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
After almost two decades at the center of Harvard's party scene, four of the eight all-male final clubs have returned to their gentlemen's club roots since January, using stricter guest policies to end the era of open parties. And, though the clubs have always had a reputation as hangouts for the wealthy and privileged, it appears that concerns about money -the financial liability involved in serving alcohol at open parties -have forced the clubs to make these changes. MIT first-year Scott Krueger's death from alcohol poisoning at a fraternity house in 1997, after which the fra­ternity was charged with manslaughter, has made the dan­ger to Harvard clubs more clear. After the MIT incident, final club members say, their graduate boards became more wary of open party policies knowing that they could be held responsible -both financially and criminally -if a similar incident were to occur at one ofthe clubs. 
¦ BROWN UNIVERSITY Students attend sexuality conference 
PROVIDENCE, R.l. 
Students from some 20 colleges converged on the Brown campus this weekend for the Second Annual East Coast Queers of Color Conference, a three-day gathering for bisexual, gay, lesbian, and transgendered people of color. The conference, this year dubbed "Powerful Beyond Measure: Courage with Race and Sexuality," kicked off Friday evening with a drag show and open mic night, and continued through Sunday morning with a variety of workshops, speakers and forums. Despite the snowstorm that struck the Northeast last week, more than 100 stu­dents from schools as far away as Indiana, Michigan, Virginia, and Washington, D.C., braved the wintry condi­tions to attend. Participants could attend workshops deal­ing with topics like sex health, fundraising, interracial and cross-generational dating and coalition building, among a number of others. 

¦ PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 
Dolly cloner addresses ethics 
PRINCETON, N.J. 

As the keynote speaker for this weekend's Undergraduate Bioethics Conference, Ian Wilmut, cloner of Dolly the sheep, offered his answers to the ethical ques­tions raised by his research and expressed disapproval over the prospect of human cloning. Bioethics enthusiasts, conference participants and students filled Richardson Auditorium to listen to Wilmut's perspective on the impli­cations of the first successful cloning of an animal. Using the technique of nuclear transfer, Wilmut successfully cloned Dolly using the DNA from a mammary gland cell of a six-year-old ewe. In his speech, Wilmut confirmed the rumor that Dolly was named for Dolly Parton. Wilmut said cloning animals will allow increased opportunities for medicine. Replacing diseased human organs with healthy animal organs is one potential application of the research, he said. 
¦ UNIVERSHY OF CAUFORN!A-BERl<HEY Discoverer of plutonium dies at 86 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

Glenn Seaborg, the Nobel Prize-winning former University of California-Berkeley chancellor whose scientific discover­ies eflectively changed the history of the 20th century, died Thursday night. He was 86. The renowned professor, whose discovery of plutonium led to the construction of the atomic bomb, was convalescing in his home after suffering a stroke in August. He fell ill during a conference in Boston, where he was being honored as one of the "Top 75 Contributors to the Chemical Enterprise" by the American Chemical Society. Seaborg was the first living person to have an clement on the periodic table named after him -element 106, seaborgium -and is consiclernd a substantial part of UC Berkeley's identity. "Glenn Seaborg g11ve his magnificent intellect to the world and his heart and soul to the University of California," said UC president Richard Atkinson, in a statement. 

¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L Tuesday ~37 31 
Wednesday@  133 3fJ  
Thur~day  ~  38 22  
'  


Friday ~ 38 30 
j' 



a .. . ,
Sat11rday ,,· ·,·.;:=·.,:'· 29 23 
~ _}i-·"·s~··,..,.~ --,. .. ,-. · 

The AccuWeathel® lorecast !or noon, Tuesday, Mar. 2. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
~---. }: 
80s 

0• FRONTS: s 40s 
806 .....,... -------y&..,­
/01999 Aei::uWoather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Prassurs: 
~;''.\,

® . CJ CJ. CJ. -. ·O ,_J#,'fa..,• 1,~,ib
© . .
High Low Showers Rain T-starms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny PL Cloudy Cloudy 
V11t Assgc::ia;ed Ptl!tt.9 

Anchorage 27 18 Fargo 27 22 Louisville 63 40 Austin 81 58 Gainesville 79 43 Philadelphia 51 34
4.~QQ.Q.Q {) ~ u 

Birmingham 72 43 Honolulu 79 66 St. Louis 61 46 
Showers T-storms Rafn F!urritJs snoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 43 34 Kansas City 54 42 Vermillion 40 34 
Detroit 39 28 Lincoln 46 40 Westfield 43 36
Via Associatea PieSs GraphicsNet 

Tuesday, March 2, I999 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Burghardt: Murray had great influence on Vatican II 
By ERICA THESING 
Assistant New, Editor 
A clocumnnt on religious frm~dom created by tlrn Second Vatican Council gives an ethi• cal, political and theological foundation for Catholics and govnrnnwnts intr.restecl in the issun, said Fathnr Waltnr Burghardt. 
Burghardt, speaking Monday as part. of' profossor Paul Wilkos' i\mnrican Catholic Prophets coursn, (!Xplain11d Lhat this document croatod lhrnP doctrinal tnnets. From tIm 1i t h i c a I s tan d po i n t . it dnlinns rnligious freedom as a human right. As a political <locumm1t. it defirrns lhe func• lions and limitations or govern­mnnts on religious mallnrs; as a theological statement, it explains the freedom or the Church and the relationship betwe1rn the Church and gov­ernment. 
"For the first time in har his­tory, the Catholic Church states clearly and unambiguously what religious freedom is," Burghardt said. 
lie explained that prior to this document. the Church per­petuated narrow views on who was entitlad to such freedom. This included the idea that only Catholics and thr.ir Church possnss thn truth and were therefore thn only ones entitled lo freedom. That view has changed since this document emerged l'rom Vatican II. 
"A continuing test in Catholic theology is to appraise and reappraise these positions," Burghardt said. "According to the document, all human beings, everyone, has an unalienable right to religious 
'J:'\)R_THE FlRST TIME IN r HER HISTORY, THE CATHOLIC CHURCH STATF.s 
CLEARLY AND UNAMBIGUOUS­
LY WHAT RELIGIOUS FREE~ 

DOM IS.' 
fATII/JJ/ WALTER 8URGIIARDT 
freedom." Burghardt also r.xplained that the three traditional pil­



Jars or the Catholic social order 
are truth, justice and love. The 
document adds religious free­
dom to that list. 
"What is seen now is that 
truth, justice and love are not 
really there unless the person 
is free," he said. 
Although the U.S. bishops played a key role in the forma­tion of this document, Burghardt emphasized that it is intended for the internation­al Church and governments around the world. He also touched on the influence of Father John Courtney Murray, a Jesuit theologian whose research and aid during Vatican II were instrumental in the creation or the document. 
Calling Murray "the single most significant influence" on the document, Burghardt explaimid that Murray's writ­ings on the relationship between the Church and gov• ernments, among other sub­jects, did not win him many friends in the Vatican. In the spring of 1955, Murray was ordered to stop publishing his work without a prior reviaw from Rome. 
"With his love for the Church of Christ and the Society of Jesus, he did not see how he 

could disobey," Burghardt said. 
"It seemed at that monrnnt that 
his life's work would be in 
shambles. Fortunately, John 
Courtney Murray did not cease 
his research, but when Vatican 
II was opened, he was not 
there. In his own ironic word. 
he had been disinvited." 
Through the intnrvention of another priest planning to attend the Council. Murray won a position as an expert and traveled to Home where he helped with the prnliminary drafts or thn docum,rnt, wroto intervention lettnrs for the U.S. bishops and interpreted the events for the press on a daily basis, Rurghardt said. 
He explained that Murray had four themes that he saw as important for the document, including Church freedom, freedom in ministry, free response to the Christian faith and religious freedom in terms of human and civil rights. 
Burghardt was a contempo­rary of Murray's at Woodstock College, u Jesuit snminary, and at the journal "Tlwological Studios." lie has presented 76 seminars on "Prnaching thn Just Word," a method for incorporating Biblical j us tier. into sermons. 
Help save the Earth. Please recycle The Observer. 



Thinkofus 
as yourscfiool bus. 
olidays, semester breaks or heading home for your sister's 
wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For information end schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
www.busville.com 
UNITED LIMO 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, Afl Day... Every f)ay 




Oef!u-e~11f Tiu fL~t Pizza.I 

@3@[}Q Q[b@ @ . ©@lh 11rn@~c{][l~HH 
I 12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between
10 11~' 

10:30-12:59

5:30 & 7:00,

9 
9 

the price of your 
the price of your 2 large 1 
large 1 topping 8 6 pizza 7 topping pizzas 



is the time you call.
is the time you call. 
* Plus tax
* Plus tax 1r-------------,1
Lunch Special 1 Small 1 Topping I I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/

ND store 
I $5.99 I


L _____________ .JNorth Village Mall

271-11.77 271-PAPA 



page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 2, 1999 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
O'Donoghue questioned which kind of off-campus events would be investigated by the committee. 
"Under this broad category, would you be looking at events such as ... the 'rally in the alley' and how the University can take a morn active role in that'?" he asked. 
"No. That's a matter the. city 






Diversity 
continued from page 1 
The student body of the University of Oregon protested the lack of minority faculty at their schools. 
"If wc'ni talking about a qual­ity of highor education for stu­d1~11 ts, it means improving recruitment and retention of !'acuity members of color," Saji l'relis, organizer of the protest, said in The Oregonian. 
Part of the lack or minority prof'essors stems from a lack of minority Ph.D. candidates. In 1995, 4.7 percent of African­
Arnericans, 4.1 percent of 
Asians, 3.3 porccnt of Hispanics and 0.5 1rnrcent of' Native Americans received Ph.D.s, according to research done by Public Broadcasting Systems. 
Of the few minorities with Ph.D.s, most choose to work lucrative industry jobs, accord­ing to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). 
As colleges and universities are discovering so few minori­ties with Ph.D.s. many are cre­ating plans to recruit the best of the minority professors avail­able. 
"The aim is to acquaint MIT with outstanding minority can­didates,'' explained provost Mark Wrighton in MIT's news­paper. The Tech. 
is investigating, [specifically] the Prosecutor's office and the South Bend Police Department," Kirk replied. 
Father David Scheidler sug­gest.ed an investigation into what rights students have when it comes to opening locked dormitory rooms. 
"One thing that I'd love to see more clear is ... keying into a room -that is, using a passkey to unlock a door. What are the parameters under which that can hap­pen'?" Scheidler asked. 
In 1991, MIT decided to address the issue by initiating a program to recruit more minorities. As part of the initia­tive, the administration awards l'unding to a department that appoints a member of an under­represented minority group to a regular position when no faculty opening exists. 
When an MIT department recruits a minority professor. it will receive a $30,000 increase to its operating budget aud the Office of the Provost will fund visiting professors. visiting scholars, visiting lecturers and post-dot:toral associates. 
''What we want. to draw to this campus arc committed teachers who want to spend their careers with undergraduate students and educate them," said Feigl. 
"The problem that some departments face is that they are told by the college about this issue. but they are not sup­ported in their efforts to bring them here and keep them," said Alexander. 
"Because our pool of minori­ties is so limited, it is hard for Saint Mary's to compete with other big-paying colleges," she said. 
"We don't have an attractive sound -'Northwest Indiana' as opposed to 'California.' We attract a certain kind of student -a student who wants to be a teacher, a teacher who's schol­ared," explained Feig!. 
~­


CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 
SPECIALIZING IN LONG DISTANCE WEDDING PLANNING 
CYNTHIA BASKER 
100 N. Center Street Suite 27 Mishawaka. IN 46544 
219-257-8873 
Call or wrire or ree i11 ,,rma1io11al ,acket 

we are still accepting registration forms! 
If you want your siblings to attend 
Sophomore Siblings weekend 
Friday, March 19th to Sunday, March 21st, make sure that your parents have returned the payment, permission slip, and insurance waiver. The cost is $65 for the first sibling, and $45 for each additional. If your parents have not received any information regarding the weekend vet, please call the Class Of 2001 office at 1-5225. 
A schedule of events can be found on the class 
webpage at www.nd.edu/.--dassOl. 


Taylor 
continued from page 1 
polo team and has been active in lnterhall football. 
Taylor is also a leader on the senior class council and has served on the student govern­ment Executive Cabinet as the academic commissioner. 
Taylor has left her mark as a volunteer, serving as a tutor, donating time at the Logan Center and working with pre­mature infants al the Texas Children's Hospital. 

Her largest research project was largely conducted at the Neonatology Section of the Baylor College of Medicine Pediatrics Laboratory and has consumed the greater part of her last three summers. Her work involved observing the effects of acetaminophen on the livers of mice. 
"I prohably spent 70 to 80 hours a week in the laborato­
ry," Taylor said. 
The tremendous workload has paid off and has yielded a number of research articles and a presentation in San Francisco this Mav at the annual national meeting of the Society for Pediatric Research. 
Regardless of the honors her work is bringing, Taylor has still managed to maintain a good perspective on her research. 
"I wouldn't do it if I didn't love it," she said. 

.SMCnaifitSchoolO:f the Year 
By VANESSAHOGANi .  • apq organizations.  bid  highlighting  unique  
News Writer · ·· The nomination also includ·~~-------~-c..·'ed information on how Saint  aspects of Saint Mary's to the directors al the conference  

Sa,int Mary's was rei;e'.n}ly namod School of the Year for Residence Hall Associations for the second year in a row,.. 
This award, given at,tne stato level, examines' all aspects of Saint Mary'si, not · just the resldenc!'! . t.iaJ1 awards. The award. \\ias 
received  at  the  1'tid  ··a.  
_.  Re"sJd~nce.tfaU'Qr'g~1tf  •~  
.U.RHO)  .CcinJer,e.11cJ';;  .... a  

Saturday at Valpart).!so University. Judges hast tJl;.~it decisions on various crite.ria such as how. resident.q' mfods are met, types of p:rogrilµis offered on campus andSaint Mary's relationship with other schools in the lRHO. 
Other criteria for this award are the efforts made to establish contact with stu. dents, efforts to voice stupent concerns· on campus, Jeadetf ~hip developm~nt OP ot · ties on c;ill1pus alH}.,~reeogniz¢ individual :Mary's was founded, hack-· Katie Rademacher, a junior, ground and the College mis• believes that receiving this sion statement. One of the tremendous honor two years areas the nomination focused in a row is phenonrnnal. on was tho programs offered ''I am very proud of Saint on campus. such as social. Mary's and the student repre­educational, cultural, commu-sentatives that make us what nltygervice and spiritual. we are today," she said. "This 


-.. Some events -the residence award was the. icing on the Hall-Association (RHAl spon• cake.·· s6,ts· 'in~lpdc Little Sibs Along with the School of the .\\'fi~)<entl, the AH Campus . Year Award, Lori Gundler, a 
•FO't'tnal. Alcohol Awareness sAnior at Saint Mary's, We'ek .and Broa.st Cancer rcccivod the Deb Newman Awareness Month. Also spon~ Outstanding Service Award. sored by RHA were the view• This award was based on her ing of the Miss USA Pageant commitment to Saint Mary's in Haggar College Center and and her commitment to the care packages for students different conferences held in during finaJs weeks. the Indiana region. 
This year Saint Mary's beat Also nominated this year by out Rose-Bulman Institute of the HHA were Gina Guerreso Technology. In order to com• for Student of the Year .and pete for this award, students Jill Aitchison for Advisor of from Saint Mary's had to send the Year. 
-· a. ltltter of intenuo tl:ie IRHO "Just being nominated for .~~4:"i¼,lette.r of.supJ)ortftom these awards is an honor in !hi: RHA, Th~ student repre~ · itseJf," said Rademacher. s~qtatives then· presented a 
We need writePs. We nee41ou. Caff us at 1....5323. 
~ ---------WHY NOT..II 
Entered Holy Cross: August 15, 1935 Years ND Pre·sident: 35 
Number of Honorary Degrees: 139 
"I have not one regret. ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
--Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C., ND '39, President Emeritus 


For more information on Holy Cross' one-year Candidate Program contact: 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
1-6385 

vocation. l@nd.edu 
.. ---~ FOLLOW HIM .... ? 
check out TI-IEPLUNGEatwww.nd.edu/~vcxxrtion 

'li1c~day, March 2, 1999 
¦ Vh,;1 [I NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. bombs Iraq, knocks out oil pipeline 
MOSUL 

,\11wrica11 warplarws struck nortlwrn Iraq ag.iin on Monday. and lrnqi of'licials said an oil pipdi111• k11ock1•d out by w11ckenrt bomb­ing ft11ilcl Im hack in opc•ration in a fow days. 
U.S ..t\ir For!'1~ jds drnppnd rnorc than :rn bombs 011 Iraqi military installations Monday. a U.S. militai·y nl'ficial said. Tho homhing C.LIIIP af'tPr llw F-1 :i lightnrs WPrP 1argct1•d by lrnqi radar 1war Mosul. Air 1-'lllTP Capt. l\·likP Hlass of' Lim U.S. huropnan Command said. 11<' said damagl' was IJl'ing ass1•ssP<l. l11 llaghdad. tlw official Iraqi rwws ag1•11ry rPpor!Pd that t!w U.S. warplan,is da11rngPd "nnotlwr rirdl' in tlw control sys­lPIII or tilt' OJ)l'l'Hlions or LIH• lraq-Turk1iy pipPlilw." l'or tlll' sPcorHI Linw in two days. Iraqi ol'lil'ials said Sunday's U.S. strikes hit tlw pmwr slil lion and communications c,m­t,•r f'nr a m:ijor pipPlirw about 2:i milrs l'rom ;\losul, nilling off l111• l'low of Iraqi oil to 
l'urkP.V. 
Legislators lower British age for homosexual consent 
LONDON 

I .1•gislalors votl'd lo IDWl'r tlw agr of consPnl for homosPxual acts by two y<)ars lo I<> on Monday, but tlw IhHJSI' ol' Lords is nxp(idl'cl to h!ol'k llw 1111•11s11r1•. In tlw third and tinal rrad­ing of llH' ('(Jll[l'OVPrsial hill in thr lloUSI' or Commons. lawmakers voted 281-82 lo make tlw 1·onsP11ti11g agi• for homosexuals ttw same as ll!at for hl'tnrost!XUals, lhl'f)f! dPcacks aftPr gay acts lJPl\\'1'!'11 adults ceased to bn illegal. Tl11• hill. wltich would bring Britain in linn with 111osl othPr Furopnan Union nations, now goes to lh1• ll()LIS<' of Lords. wlwrn opposition lrad­Prs in tlw ConsPrvalivP-c:onlrollrd chambrr haV<' said tlwy will ddiwt tlw bill, as thry did last summ1•r. Them. mnmlwrs of Lhn largely hl'rl'dilary Ilousr of Lords said their decision ed101•d the foP!ings of' most Britons. Speaking in llw Commons. honw ofl1cc ministnr Paul Boal1•ng said tlw bill was about "equality hl'fttrl' t!w law, resp1!1·t for vulnnrabi!ity and trust." 
Lighthouse goes dark 
BUXTON. N.C. 

Tlw lwacon atop thn nation's tallest light­lwusn was darkerwd Monday for the l'irsl linw sinc1i IIJ:iO as mov1~rs prnpam to move tlw Capp llatteras lighthouse inland. Thn 208-f'oot-lall structurn with its barber pol,• striping is hcing moved 2,900 feel inland to prt•sPrvc it from llw oncroaching ,1\tlanti1'. Onian. which has empt within 120 fl'Pl. Tlw $1J.8 million move is 1ixpectnd to be rnmplPtPd hy S11ptembnr. said Hob Bolling, a National Park SPrvicf• ranger· and historian al llw lighthousP visitor c1\nter. 
Asidl' l'rom light bulbs burning out, tlin bea­1·011 has 01wral1ifl 1·011ti111wusly sincn l ')50. llolti11g said. 

S&P 500: C:omro,ite 1236.16 Vol11111e:

9324.78 
-1.17 832. 107,190 

VOLUME LEADERS 

,cawa:  ll'-111  !I,...  I Cllllill  !lilli~I  
l;IJ"1f'J,,,Q  C"OMPll'ft'.k  CP\>  ~-i.a  l .ft450  JJ.53  
tNTf.l.  r'UM:P  INTC;  -4..40  ·2, R17'5  117 .06  
DILL •·r,H?U1'ER  D£Ll  •li. ~4  •O. 4.l">O  RO, 'iiti  
AN't.1£11 MA1'ERIA UT1r;MOUi' iNt;  "'hT C  •2 .!iR •41. 4A  •l .43~0 t.2 .t.)00  1!17, 06 61 .JR  
MJC~OSDFT COFI. P  M.':if"'f  • l. OR  • l. 62S0  l Sl. 75  
AMtR  llNl,!NE  ACS  ... o, 10  •0.622'5  ~9. !16  
t"UCO  SV!-lTEH~  CKO  •I 66  •1 ,62'1-5  99. 44  
llRAC l,r  COR r  ORCL  l. 69  0.6300  36. 62  
QtJANTtTM  C'O'RP  011'1'1"  , 19 .00  •). 122~  19. 56  

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 


ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BAALBEK 
Israeli warplanes roared overhead Monday while Shiitn Muslim fighters scaled off the remains of a former base that was dnslroyml by Israoli airstrikes tho night bnl'ore. 
Fears that Israel was about to embark on a bombing campaign kept crowds smaller than usual at the main market in Baalbok, a city of 200,000 located 60 miles north of Israel's bor­der. Parents also kept their children home from school. 
In the northern Israeli town of Kiryat Shmona. colorful balloons decorated tlw shopping mall Monday, but the resi­dents who would have been celebrating the .Jewish holiday of Purim were· crowded in bomb shelters, fearing morn fighting with Ilezbollah Lebanese guerrillas. 
The fear of war that spread over both sides of the border began after a road­side bomb killed Brig. Cen. Ernz Gerstein and throe other Israelis ­including a journalist -in south Lebanon on Sunday. Two rockets, fired l'rom unidentified guerillas in Lebanon. also hit an Israeli neighborhood, slight­ly injuring one woman. 
The death of Gerstein. the highest­ranking Israeli oflicer killed in Lebanon since tho 1982 Israeli invasion, prompt­ed airstrikes against the Iranian­backed Ilezbollah guerilla group. 
Israel carved out a "security zone" in south Lebanon in 1985 to protect its northern settlements from attack. Hezbollah fighters are determined to force Lhe Israelis out of Lebanon. 
No new Israeli bombing runs were reported Monday, although sonic booms and the rumble of distant war­.planes could be heard in Beirut, the capital. 
But tho fear remained. especially since Israeli bombing campaigns in 1993 and 1996 killed more than 300 Lebanese civilians. 
Hala Shabshool, five months preg­nant, moved with her husband and their two daughters to her parents' house in a safer neighborhood of Baalbek. 
"I am not going to return home for now," said Shabshool. whose her fifth­story apartment was damaged by mis­siles fired from lsraoli warplanes. 
The Sunday night attack did not result in casualties but a Hezbollah 

base in a thren-story fornrnr hotPI look a dirnct hit. 
I lezbollah fighlPrs armed wilh AK-47 assault rifles sealed off tlrn area Monday and told rnsidents and reporters to keep out. ,\ six-foot-wide crater on a road could be seen from a distance. 
llezbollah's second-in-command, Sheik Nairn Kassem, promised more attacks against Israeli forces and their allies. 
"Targeting [Israeli! oflicers, soldiers and their militia allies on our occupied territory will not stop," lw told reporters in Beirut. 
Tho U.S. Stale Department said Monday that restraint would be the best Israeli response to lfozbollah attacks. 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright also sent messages to PresidenL'i Emile Lahoud of Lebanon and Ilafez Assad of Syria to urge them to make sure the violence is halted, her spokesman .James Foley said. 
Streets worn empty in Marjayoun. the main town in Israeli occupied Lebanon. In several villages in the southern Bekaa Valley. residents prepared shel­ters and schools were closed. 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
AMRON 
A Christian mob attacked a mosque and burned a dozen Muslim• owned housos Monday on a troubled Indonesian island, whilii a new mili­tary force was sot up in the nation's capital to sup­press riots. 
Troops fatally shot at least four Muslims, said Munir, a Muslim official in Ambon. th~ capital of Mnluku province. One vic­tim was killed in front of the mosque. Police declined to comment on the death toll. 
¦ INDONESIA 

Mob attacks mosque, civilian killed 
military <'-hief warned !.hat chronic unrest was endan­gering national unity and launched a rapid reaction force to curb riots in Urn world's fourth most popu• lous nation. 
"Wc-i have to handlt1 this problem," Gen. Wiranto said at a ceremony in the IndonesiM capit11I. "Ir not, it could croate disintegra­tion and instability in the nation." 
The riot troops will deploy anywhere in the nation to combat rioters, its commanders said. 
. Tho military has been widely criticized both for its slow response to unrest 
The mosque in thA vii• lagc of Ahuru on the out­skirts.-of Ambon was attacked just afwr dawn prayers, said Husein Toisuta, a prayer leader, or imam. 
Ono Christian man was killfld in brawls with Muslims, Toisuto. said. 
More Lhan 150 people have been killed this year in fighting in and around Ambon, on an island l,400 miles east of Jaka,rta. The riots have mainly been between Muslim and Christian gangs, but ethnic and economic factors are also hahind the unrest. 
In Jakarta, Indonesia's 

as wrJII as it.s use 
of lethal force against mobs. 
Wiranto, whos1• military has been taintod by human rights abuses and its Jin ks to former Presidont Suharto. urged tho soldiers to hunt down the instigators of riots with restraint. 
"Wo have to consider demands from the international rommunity to respect human rights," ho said. 
Indonesia has endured constant riots and protests since the May ouster of the authoritari­an Suharto. 
-__,,,__--~-------------,,----,_,...,.-----........... 

.......-------,,-----------­
Tuesday, March 2, 1999

page 6 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS 
New elected class officials are hopeful
SMC run-offs determine junior, senior winners 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE bringing 59 percent of the News Writer class to the polls and rising juniors reporting a 53 percent 
Official winners for Saint turnout. 
Mary's officers for the classes High figures for run-off elec­of 2000 and 2001 were tions are not unusual, said declared Monday after run-off elections commissioner elections. Bridget Heffernan. 
Thursday's general elections "We generally see a high narrowed the race for class percentage of voter turnout officers from three tickets to when there is a run-off 
two after none of the tickets .because people want a definite was able to capture more than winner," Heffernan said. 50 percent of the vote in both "They generally get more 
the junior and senior classes. excited about the election." 
The licket of Ann Pangilinan, Officers for the class of 2002 Penelope Kistka, Claire Burke were decided in Thursday's and Katherine Rademacher general election after the claimed the victory by a 15 Shannon Rodgers, Stefanie percent margin, defeating the Roth, Cara Dunbar and Liz Maureen Donovan. Alison Clinger ticket was disqualified Wade, Emily Junius and Agnes for railing to turn in financial Bill ticket for the class of 2000. receipts before the deadline. 
Rising junior class members Thirty-four-and-a-half per­elected Autumn Palacz, Julia cent of the rising sophomore Malczynski, Gina Case and class reported to the polls, Alyson Leatherman with 61 electing Michelle Nagle, Katie percent of the popular vote. O'Connell, Mandy Schomas 
Voting turnout for each class and Katy Robinson with 76 was high, with rising seniors percent of the class vote. 
¦ CORRECTION 

In a Monday, Feb. 2;?a senior Sherrecia Jones · · her poem, "The Es1>ence of "It means to be proud ofall came herl:\ tonightto set~U' 

By TIM LOGAN Associate News Editor 
Alicia Coronas was elected president of the Class of 2000 Monday in run-off elections that also saw Pat Foy win the off-campus senate seat and Peter Rossmann emerge victo­rious in the Class of 2002 pres­idential elections. 
The three tickets had each qualified for the run-off elec­tions by ending as one of the top two vote-getters in Thursday's primaries. Tickets must receive 50 percent of the votes cast in order to claim vic­tory. 
Coronas and her ticket of Walker Candelario, Hichard Deferia and Nina Stephan won with 53 percent of the vote. They defeated the ticket led by Teresa Hoover. which received 46 percent. 
"We're very happy," Coronas · said after the results came in. Her ticket hopes to improve Senior Week activities and sponsor a Millennium party. 
"We're looking forward to working with Student Union Board. the Hall President's Council and the other classes in the next year," Coronas said. 
[n a contest between current Student Senate leaders, Foy won the election for off-cam­pus senator, defeating Rhea Gertken. 
Foy, this year's Carroll Hall senator and chair of the sen­ate's ad hoc committees on the Big Ten and the non-discrimi­nation clause, received 56 per­cent of the vote. Gertken. the Breen-Phillips Hall senator and chair of the senate Oversight committee, garnered 41 per­cent. 

''I'm happy," Foy said. "Both ol' us were good ·candidates, either way it would have been a good situation." 
He hopes to work on estab­lishing a more defined role for the Campus Life Council in stu­dent-administration rc~lations. As off-campus senator, Foy will sit on the Council. 
"[ want to try and give some purpose to the CLC," Im said. "Hight now it's up in the air." 
Rossmann and running mates -Brooke Norton, Kathleen O'Connor and Chad Silker -received 53 percent of the vote in the Class of 2002 elections, beating out the ticket led by Tim Lyden. 
Rossmann said he hopes to increase awareness of class events by sending out more nowsletters, including one dur­ing the summer to keep stu­dents informed between semesters. lle was happy with the election results. 
'Tm really excited right now," Hossmann said. "It makes all the hard work worth 
it... These class presidents join 
Class of 2001 president-elect John Micek, who received a majority in Thursday's primary election. 
The newly elected officials will take oflice April 1. 



Living in the Age of Possibilities 
A Lecture by 

Newt Gingrich 
Tuesday, April 13, 1999 Stepan Center 
/ 7:30 pm Tickets on Sale NOW at the Lafortune Box Office $6 Students (ND/SMC/HC) $10 General Public 

A traveling group of improv comedy actors, The Second City has been the starting point for many comedic actors, writers & directors. You'll laugh for hours! Tix on sale NOW at the Lafortune Box Office $4 Students $7 General Public 
Tuesday, March 2, _1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Tripp to return to Pentagon Clinton to Congress: 
deputy assistant secretary or in the secretary of defensn's d1il"cnse !'or public affairs. one office brought together opinion 

Let counsel law expire 
W!\SIIINCT0N of the sources said. lnadcrs from across the nation 

Linda Tripp will return to Army Col. Hichard Bridges, to familiarize them with activi­tlw Pcntagon this wenk, but to tho Pentagon's director of tins of all the military services. a dilTcrPnt job than tlw 0110 shn defense information, conlirmcd Tripp has been working from had a y1•,u-ago wlrnn lrnr secrnt tho meeting, but said he had no home, keeping her nearly ta1w rncordings triggered tho othnr information. $90,000 salary, since the scan­Monica l.nwinsky srandal. two Philip Coughter, a spokesman dal broke. 1woplt~ familiar with tlrn matt<ir for Tripp, declined to comment The 19-year federal employ­said Monday. Monday night. ee has had a difficult relation­
B1•ginni11g W,idrwsday, Tripp Tripp was director of the ship with her employer, declar­will lw a public affairs spncial­high-profile .Joint Civilian ing she wanted to remain at ist in tlw l)pfonsn l)ppartmonl's Orientation Conrorence in hnr work station at the Manpownr Data Cnnlor, said January 1998 wlrnn she turned Pentagon. tlin soun:ns, srwaking on condi­over to prosecutor Kenneth The Pentagon concluded her tion ol' anonymity. Starr tapns or Lewinsky dis­prcsnnce would be disruptive 
Tripp Wits informed of' the cussing a planned cover-up of to the Defense Department, so chang1~ Monday at a Pentagon lrnr affair with President she was assigned to put togeth­1111wti11g with her supervisor, Clinton. er a training manual from l>o11g Wilson. tlw principal Tripp's orientation program home. 
Got V\ews? Call 1-5323 of!' come see LJ\S iV\ t~e basemeV\t of SDt-1. 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
FINANCE CLUB 
I 999-2000 Officer Elections 
Voting will take place... Monday -Wednesday, March 1-3 
9:00am -3:00pm 
Finance Department Office 

All members of the Finance Club should stop by and vote 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

Limited Time 

On balance transfers 
Transfer those high-balance credit cards to your Notre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA or MasterCard and save. 
www.ndfcu.org 
(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-661 I

'6J~~!f~,~~tu~~ 
•This special rate applies for the first 6 months on balance transfers only. Rate will then revert hack to l~.92%. It docs 1101 include cxisling balances on any Notre Dame fcdcrul t·rcdit Union MasterCard or VISA. Promotion ,alid January X, through March 31. 1999. lndepende111 ofihc University 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Reversing the Clinton admin­istration's long-standing posi­tion, Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder plans to tell Congress today the indepen­dent coun-.----,--==----,.-, sel law is fundamen­tally flawed and should be allowed to expire in June. a senior--._ administra-Bill Clinton tion official said Monday night. 
With thPc Watergate-inspired law under attack from both Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill, Holder was to out­line the administration's new position at a hearing Tuesday before a House judiciary sub­committee. 
Holder plamrnd to testify that a study group he chaired con­cluded that the Justice Department is capable of investigating and prosecuting most of the officials now cov­ered by the law, the senior offi­cial said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
In rare cases in which them is a genuine conflict of interest, the attorney general could usn her long-standing statutory authority to hire a special counsel to conduct an investi­gation, Holder will say, accord­ing to the official. 
Holder will cite the use or spocial counsels appointBd by the attorney general in several scandals, including Teapot Dome and Wattirgate, as serv­ing the country wr,11, the offi­cial said. 
Opposition to tho lndependnnt Counsel Act directly reverses tho Clinton administration's stance five years ago, when both the prcs­idtint and Attorney General Janet Heno successfully urged Congress to renew the law. 
The new position was devcl­

oped by the .Justice Department task force and then cleared with the Oflke of Managoment and Budget and the White llousn as acceptable administration policy, the offi­cial said. 
Support for the law among Hepubficans has been erod11d by two events in recent years. 
They objected to llw longth of 1.awrencn Walsh's lengthy investigation of tlrn Iran­Contra scandal during the Reagan and Bush administra­tions. 
More recently. Hepublicans have groused about Herrn's refusal to turn over to an inde­pendent counsr,I her depart­ment's investigation of cam­paign financing activities of Clinton, Vice President /\I Gorn and other Democrats in the 1996 election. 
Dtnnocrats have turned against the law· becausn of what they villw as nxc1:ssiv1\ vigor hy Independent Counsel Kennnth Starr in investigating the Clintons' business dealings in Arkansas and the presi­dent's affair. Starr rncom­mcndnd Clinton's impeach­ment to tho llousn last Septnmber. Tim Scnatt1 acquit­tf\d Clinton last month. 
Insidn tho Justice Dcpartmnnt, officials have felt that somn of llrn record seven independent counsels sought by Reno over the past six years overreached and excnnded their intended mandates. 
Tho law requires the attor­ney general to se(1k an inde­pendent counsel wlw11 there is substantial and crndiblc evi­dence of' a crime by any onn of 49 top fodnral officials, includ­ing the president. 
A spncial pannl of' lhrnn f'r.d­eral judgr.s thun picks an attor­ney for thc job, and tlrn inde­pendent prosncutor is given an unlimited buclgnt lo hin\ aidns and conduct an investigation. 
Heno is scheduled to testify on tho issuo latPr this month before lh£i Snnatn (;ovl'l"11mnnt !\tTairs CommiltoP. 

VIEWPOINT 


Behind the Slogan 

On January 23rd, the Chicago Tribune ran a story about Hillary Clinton's plan to give 4.5 million dollars of taxpayers' money to abortion clinics. Buried in the article was the statement: "As the first lady spoke, hundreds of anti-abortion activists gathered ... " 
Right to Life 

The New York Times had a similar article on page 12. buried in the nation­al news. However. the same publication chose to dedicate the cover story in the National Report section to a man (yes, one man) who pickets outside an aquari­um. 
The Washington Post Metro page dis­cussed the tens of thousands of anti­abortion protesters who gathered in D.C. 
USA Today had no mention of a gath­ering in D.C. 
On January 22. 226 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students joined 150,000 pro-life activists in Washington, D.C.. for the annual March for Life. That was 
150.000 people. Not hundreds. Not tens of thousands. Definitely more than one man outside an aquarium. Not some­thing that deserves little to no media coverage. 
For the 226 ND/SMC students that attended the march. it is likely that they will never experience a greater peaceful civil demonstration. But somehow, the march was not deemed newsworthy by any TV network and was only barely mentioned in some national newspa­pers. 
I would ask. if a gathering of 150,000 people isn't newsworthy, what is'? What else happens that we are told so little about'? However. we are talking about abortion, and, as you will see, the abor­tion movement never set out to be truth­ful or to offer women a legitimate choice. It is important to realize the questionable origin and characteristics of the pro-abortion movement, as it was founded upon slogans developed by advertising firms, racist ideology, manipulation of people, and, if not lies, elasticity of truth. 
The slogan "pro-choice" was not an ideological revelation, but ·was actually created by an advertising firm. lt has been proven and then admitted that false statistics concerning abortions were used during Roe v. Wade. During the recent partial-birth abortion debate, Ron Fitzsimmons, a spokesperson for the pro-abortion faction, admitted that it had made up the statistics which he pre­sented to Congress (yes, he made them up). Roe from Roe v. Wade is now pro­life and said she was merely used to fur­ther the pro-choice agenda. Bernard Nathanson, formerly the owner of a number of abortion clinics, has convert­ed to Catholicism and has dedicated his life to exposing the lies of the pro-abor­tion movement. What justifies the use of lies? What justifies using a person? Is this cause greater than truth? 
See if you can guess who issued the following statement: "The most merciful thing that the large family does to one of its infant members is to kill it." 
Yes, someone actually said this. That same someone also expressed the desire to "create a race of thoroughbreds" and stated. "we do not want word to go out that we want to exterminate the Negro population." Not to mention. "all our problems are the result of overbreeding among the working class." 
No, I do not agree with any of these statements, and I doubt that anyone reading this would. However, these statements were not made by Hitler, Niche, or one of their cohorts. The head of the KKK did not make these com­ments ... run out of guesses? 
However the ideology or this person 

¦ DOONESBURY 
'ASN'r!Tf' 7HINJ<HEV 
~PE.TU5CT 
!£Al?t/N8 
has friends with aeep pockets. Ted Turner recently released an official apology for derogatory remarks directed toward the Pope at a conference pro­moting the ideology of this person. Bill Gates contributes money to the group formed by this person. So does McDonald's, Levi Jeans and the March of Dimes. 
This organization was founded with the utopian dream (which remains unchanged) that "no women or man shall have the right to become a parent without a permit for parenthood." If you do not know who I am talking about. well, you might be surprised. These quotes are excerpts from the writings of Margaret Sanger, the revered feminist and founder of Planned Parenthood. 
Planned Parenthood is now a $500 bil­lion industry. A third of its funds come from the government -yes, our tax dol­lars. It is the largest abortion provider and abortion referral agency in the United States. lt was founded on the ide­ology of creating a superior race. Planned Parenthood spearheads international movements of forced ster­ilization in, oddly enough. third world nations, primarily Africa and Asia. Oddly enough. a strikingly dispropor­tionate number of abortions are now performed on minority babies and moth­ers. 
Planned Parenthood, as with the rest of the abortion lobby, is adamantly opposed to waiting periods for abortions and laws requiring women to receive a proper briefing of what an abortion entails. No other "surgical" procedure can be administered so hastily and with so little information given to the patient beforehand. 
A well-hidden survey conducted by Planned Parenthood found that 94 per­cent of women suffer some sort of emo­tional or psychological trauma after undergoing abortions, with 73 percent of women categorizing the trauma as severe. Ninty-four percent of these women said thev would not have had an abortion if they ·could "choose" now ... 

which begs the question who is it that 
Planned Parenthood and the pro-abor­
tion movement really care about? 
Planned Parenthood pushes for sex­
education programs that discourage 
abstinence. They have filed lawsuits 
against programs that have taught 
abstinence on the grounds that these 
programs violato the separation of 
church and state. The organization is 
investing in tlrn education of' youth so 
that yoµng people will be more likely to 
need contraceptives and abortions. 
They have targeted their "core clients" 
as "young women, low-income women, 
and women of color." Think about that. 
Look back at the quotes of Margaret 
Sanger. Is this a cause that Americans 
want to be championing'? 
One belief I share with Karl Marx is 
the cyclical nature of history. People 
have been dehumanized and killed 
senselessly because of their religion. 
People have been dehumanized and 
enslaved because of their skin color. 
People have been dehumanized and 
killed because of their political beliefs. 
ethnic heritage, or usef'ulness to society. 
Now we dehumanize and kill 4,400 
unborn babies every day in the United 
States. Maybe because of financial dilli­
culties, inconvenience, gender. timing. 
and even because we fear the birth of 
children who will be handicapped or 
poor. We withhold information from 
women and fail to acknowledge 150,000 
people. All in the name of freedom, 
choice, and the betterment of society. 
And as the babies silently scream and 
the mothers quietly cry, we remain · silent because we choose to make them 
hard to hear. We don't want to hear 
them. All in the name of life, liberty, and 
the pursuit of happiness. 
So help us God. 
Mario Suarez is a junior Computer Science/GovPrnmenl major. Ile enjoys football and food. If you have any com­ments (or unwanted food), he would be glad to hear what you have to say at Suarez.3@nd.edu. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

¦ QuoTE OF THE DAY 
Ht5PeAt-HSSOW4Mitt/ON 
tY"/JIE 7!JP UNIT'§LA!irY~­

AOTIN~ At/,, {J)Wf<5tJF/1A5·CXltltVTRY!" G/CRa:'I'., ff5fXINll , , 'K ]hat exactly is on I 7f?ACJ( f?)R. 'JH!#tf!R, 
MY6£NE/<tt!lON!3 TT your mind? If you'll 
t!8el<ATIONMll.3/C. 

excuse the exaggeration?'
I 

-From Twelve Heckler Retorts, Anonymous 
VIEWPOINT 

Tuesday, March 2, l999 
page 9 
¦ THE BELLE OF SAINT MJrnv's

¦ PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE 
Radical Democracy 
Und1irlying all or our varying ido­lrnld a tnach-in, spnakouts, peti­ologins, i11 PS/\, is a strong r.ommit-tioned. writtnn columns and morn. 11w11l to clPnHH:racy. Tom Ilaydon, Ov11rwlwlmi11gly, studr,nts and fnumlnr of Studonl.s for a fucultv have decided that thn best l)p1111H-ralk SociPLy, oncn statncl optio~ would bn to include snxual that "Tlw L11it1id Status is morn of' a orim1talion. It is active students !'!~public th1111 a who lmvn df'lllO<Tilt:y -~==============: brought this 
and most pPoph' issue bnl'orn want lo kP<'Jl it tlrn campus that way." I masses lo the
Aaron 

rhari.;n that llw cxtnnt that 
U.S. govnrnnwnt now most stu­and almost all of clcnls under­om instill!Iions stand whal a
Krieder un· anti-dPmoc­"non-discrimi­rnli!'. I hnlinvc> -----=-========-----nation clause" 
t.ha t WP fan! an oV('rwlwlming crisis of" d,~mocracy si1H'1• our vot1i is 1rnxt lo nwaning­lnss and our institutions am con­trol!t•d by Plitns. Our solution lins in grassroots participatory organiza­tions that ;m• rnal'finning tfw ahility or till' 1w11plt' to 111ak11 tlrnir own d1•t·isions and h1dp shap11 policy. 
Whal good is voling'? Ilow can 0111• al'li1111 takf'll t'Vf'rV two. four. or six yPars bavn an im,;ac:t'! llow can !'hoosing lwtW<'l'll two viable par­til's lor Llir<'P if" vou·re "rnally lu!'kv"I b1• a lll«'~n1ingl'ul nrw'! Can all 1,'11r irlc'oiogiPs rpaJ!y fit into two rwat ratPgoriPs'1 llow can you judgn a11 in1·11111lwnt's 1wrl'orma1H'I', l'avor 0111• party ov!'r anotlwr. and indi­rn IP your position 1111 10 I isStll!S ­all with 01w vot1i'' 
F11rllwrmor<l, as witirnssPd by tlw srnrl'ity of third parlif'S in politics. tlwrP an' !':<lrP!llf' linancial barri­f'l"S to Plllr~'-Only pt!oplP who ad in arc·ordanc·p with lht! wislws of largl~ rnrporations and rich individuals (',Ill lropn to rnisci cinmigh moiwy lo IJf' "viablP." Wlwn tlw avnragP TV 11Pws sound hitP is IPss than a full sc•lJlt'tlf't• and giV('ll tlw stall' of n!c·c•nt U.S. campaigning, can any­0!11' doubt that we• arP nnl dPbating id1•ology but picking an imag11? Thn rPgular political systnm fails Lo involvtl 1J9.9 p1\rCt!lll of people in d1•hating and dPtf'rmining policy. 
Likl' tlw U.S. political system and most instillllions. the Univnrsity of NntrP llanw is also complntely bankrupt d1i11w1Tacy-wise. Wn havn a !llf'llg'l'r systPm of rnprnsnntation l'or stud<•nts and faculty. l.rss awan• ol' tlw faculty situation. I will -;pPak to ttw studrnl wlrnrn it is t'!Par that pnoplt\ run on meaning­hiss platforms having lilt.In iclna as to what thrv will actually do onc11 in poW<!I' and iess a11 idna of what ttwir 1·onstiturnts al'.ttudly think. .Stud()11l gov1!rnmrnl is unaccount­ahlr. But tlw blanw should not lie tlwrn. Hathnr thn largnr problmn is tlml stwknt and facultv snnatn arn 11ot allowl'll to makn m;mningf'ul dPrisions. Witnnss tlw 11011-disrrim­ination rlaust" wh1\rn both bodins volrd ovrrwlwlmingly lo includ<' s11x1111l orilmtation only to havo ii turrwd down unanim1;usly by thr F1'1lows. 
Studrnt S1\1Hltn is told by a pat1w­11al /\dministration that it can rnlNtain the stlldnnl b()dy and makn fifo fun. BUT critical issuns like acadnrnk f'rnPdom for students. right. Lo form our nwn organiza­li11ns, f'rc<1 spcPl'.h, tuition increases, 1·.lmngns in curriculum, parinlals and morP arP all totally oul of con­trol of' llw Student Senaln. 
Hut what arn studnnts to do'! Ilow can WI' promotn d!'m1H·.racy and mass partidpalion',' 1.iko llw Stt1dP11ts for a llnmocrntic Socinty or yPslPrynar. I'S/\ has undcrtakon this task, and to tlw t'Xtm1t that il is possihl1• Wl' an• achi<wing it. In lhf' case ol' the 11011-discrimination dausn, WI! discussnd Uw isstw anwng our mPm!wrs and tlrn gnn­Pral ram pus 1·om1111111ity. Wn havo 
really means and why wn Jl(ir,d changes. lfoccntly the will of the overwhelming wnll­rnason1•cl majority was again veto1\d by u tiny minority (12 Fellows). 1lownvnr in t.lrn long-term, tlrn PSA is committed lo contimrnd involve­llllllll of stucl1mts and !'acuity iu <Incision making, AND nnading the dncision of tlw majority despite the rc!sistance of a select fow adminis­trators. We'rn not going away. 
The PSA has recently started a campaign against sweatshops and their 11s11 in tlw produr.tion ol' ND npparel. We hope to involvo hun­dr!'ds ol' stud1\nts in tlrn dobat<) over clPtermining fair working condi­tions. ln this campaign, W<' will be doing resnarch, 1'.ooperating with student. lubor and religious groups a('ross th11 U.S .. developing a pro­pos,t!, and taking action lo ensure that our proposal is cnactrd. It is only through this organizing and acting that we can achieve tlrn radi­cal goal of democracy (and justice}. 
Some pnopln would have us peti­tioning authority figures and beg­ging them to givn us concessions. Some peoplti b1dinve that nlilcs wnrn mnant to lnad. and the masses wern mnanl to follow. But we should not be begging for a morsel ol'justicc l'rom lhe U.S. government or l'rom this administration. 
There is a fundamental difference bntween having crumbs ol'justice come from a not-so benevolent elite to appnase the masses, and having justice come from the organizing of students into groups that collective­ly create their own demands and enact tlrnm by acting oulsido the system (a.k.a. protnsting in its many shapos and forms). 
This is democracy and this is rad­ical. Thn !'SA is committed to ensuring that the voice of the stu­dcmts docs not go unheard. If you !'eel that tlrn decisions of student government are not impacting the administration, that you as a stu­dnnt arc not being reprosentod, and if' you want to get involved in a col­lective process of radical democra­cy then you should join or form an organization that is truly democrat­
ic. Perhaps the PSA. And as rrnnd­cd, bn willing to protest, and take other forms of' action to ensure that your dmnands are realized. l1nrhaps one day, when our country is built upon democratic participa­tory organizations, we can be both a republic and a democracy. 
Because Student Activities lmnned PS1l from postering for two months (since um put onr Week nf /Jction poster on places like lhe walls ofO'Shaq-for shame!) ,t\arnn would like to rrJmind 11011 that PS/1 meets every Monday at 7p.rn. in 114 ()'Shaughnessy. 
The views expressed in this col­unm are those ofthe author and nol necessarily ·,hnse of'/'lie Ohserver. 

The Art of Heckling 
llere·s my biggest problem with the "MICHIGAN! YOU CANNOT IIANDI.E world: There's not enough heckling. TIIE IHISII! TIIEHE'S TIIE DOOH! TIIE 
I.il'e would indeed be marvelous were it BUS IS Al.HEADY WARMED UI'!" socially acceptable to stand up in the "SCHMIDT' EVEHYONE IIATES YOU! middle of' a Mass homily and holler: YOUH TEAM HATES YOU! YOUH MOTll­"IIEY! YOU IN TIIE VESTMENTS! SHUT EH IIATES YOU!" YOl!H MOUTH! TIIE PHOrnGAL SON WAS "EVEN TIIE PSA 11/\TES YOU! BUT WF FOHGIVEN. ALL !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ DON'T lli\TE YOU ... HIGIIT'' WE GET IT BECAUSE YOU 
ALREADY! MOVE IT SUCK!"
M B th 
ALONG! TIIE BHON-"I KNOW YOU CAN
ary e 

COS KICK OFF IN !!FAil ME. Jl;\(;U!" 11/\Lr AN HOUR!" "IIEY IIOliY! WE Wonderful, DIDN'T FOHCET
E11 ·s
I 
ABOUT YOU. IIOEY!"
Or, during class: "IIEY! Ph.D. BOY! THIS LECTURE SUCKS! YOU GET ME? IT SUCKS! I'VE LEARNED MOHE FROM A DUKES OF IIAZAHD EPISODE! AND STOP WEABING TIIE SAME SWE/\TEH A MINIMUM or TIIHEE TIMES A WEEK!" 
Vnry cleansing. 
There arc certain societies in which hnckling has boen raised to an art rorm. One of thesr is the Goon Squad, a warm and happy place in section seven of' home Notre Dame hockey games wlrnrc scrneching is thn only acceptable form of' communication. There is no multicultural awareness. There are no "I ... you" state­menls. Them is only yelling. 
The Goom; arc not merely a pack of' obnoxious. rudy-poo drunken dngencr­ales. Please. Thnrr is no drinking before nnlering into tlrn sanctum of the bleach-Prs. !)uII s tlle sells(•s 
.... One must be quick on the uptake in order to maximize instantaneous !wckling, Furtlrnrmore, l would like to direct your allnnlion lo the fol­iowing communit.y scr­vices the Goon Squad provided before the recent Notre Dame-Northern Michigan gamn: 
"A good-faith attempt to stabilize international relations." 
Immediately following "The Star Spangled Banner," thn Squad struck up a moving ren­dition of "O Canada," lyrics displayP.d bel'ore us on a largn wipe-off board held alof't by the Goon present with the best handwriting. 
We indeed struck a blow for world peace that evening: As we sang, the Glee Club, which had performed the National Anthem, stood rooted to the icn for a moment, stunned; the announcer held ofT on a vital bulletin concerning the dangers of nying pucks; the players, lined up at attention al center ice let us get halfway through it, to about the "With glowing hearts we sec thee rise... " point, before realizing that this was not in fact an offi­cial pre-game event and they were losing valuable pre-game skate-around-while­banging-your-sticks time; an entire popu­lation of the bleachers remained standing at attention, provided generous applause whnn we were linished, proba!J!y because thcv couldn't sne the large "Ell'?" snrnl~­(mi{ added to lhe wipe-off board al the Pnd of the lyrics. 
"Creating a welcoming atmosphere for our opponents." 
We achiPvod this via a seriPs of cordial salutations flung in the general direction of the visitor's bench, or, in espncially tender moments, the penalty box. 
At times we added a warm personal tourh by welcoming our guests by name: "YOU SUCK!" 
"IIEY! HEY HAGliSETT! WE SAW YOU Bl.OW THE GAME LAST NIGIIT! AND YOU'RE GOING TO DO IT AGAIN TONIGHT! YOU 11/\VE NO INTHINSIC WORTH, YOU GODLESS PUNK!" 
"IIOEY! WHAT ARE YOU GONNA DO FOH A FACE WHEN THE BABOON WANTS IIIS ASS BACK'? HUii'? WII/\T WILL YOU DO'?" 
"YOU SUCK! I KNOW YOU CAN IIJ/J\B ME, YOU UGLY 

PIECE or GAllBAGF!" "DANCE FOH ME, SCIIMlllT! COME ON, 
BABY' GET JIGGY WITII IT!" "I KNOW YOU C/\N IIEAH ME!" "Equal-opportunity hnckling." llnckling is by and largo a malo-domi­
natod field, hut I was rcceivnd with open lungs in section snven. 
Tho presence of' a l'emalc voict) op1!1Wd an entirely new realm of lrnckling: "NOHTIIERN!" 
I screamed in the middle of tlw sncnnd period. "I AM NOT IMPHESSED BY TIIE SIZE OF YOUB STICKS!" 
"Haising awarcnrss of' ovcr-Llrn-countm· cu1·ns for .certain medical conditions." "Prune juicP!" we bellowed from tlw diaphragm aftPr tlw opening bars of __ "Wild Thing" blasted tinnily through tlw 
1 arnna. "You mak11 my bowels loos1d You make everything soupy!" 
Tim Glee Club. which had by now joi1wd us,' applauded. 
"Making tlw oppos­
ing l<Htm's goalie and r; the ref'ertw aware of (,, the blatant promiscuityl of his sistcr/mollwr." 
This was a most pop­ular and well-rncnived Goon Squad snrvicn, and we approached this delicaln topic in only the most sensitive of tnrms: 
"111:,Y, l!OEY! WIIAT'S TIIE OTIIEH DIFFERENCE 

BETWEEN YOUH SISTER /\ND TIIE SAINT MABY'S SIIUTTLE'! TEN POUNDS!" 
As always, we were just trying to lwlp. "Providing a wavn of support !'or all Notre Dame athletns." 
The Squad receivnd a heckling bonus that night, for a fencing meet was finish­ing up behind the stands in the hour before the hockey game bngan. 
This provided nxcellnnt pro-gamn nnlnr­tainment and unparallfllmi warm-up heckling opportunities: 
"TIIIS IS A SPOlrI'" WE WEHE MOHi'. ENTEHTAINED WATCHING Tlllf ICE DHY!" 
"MY N/\ME IS INIGO MONTOYA. YOU KILi.ED MY FATIIEH. PHEPAHE TO DIE." 
"I BET WHEN YOU WOKE LIP TlllS MOHN ING YOU TIIOUGIIT YOU WOULDN'T IIAVE PEOPLE YELLIN(; AT YOU WIIILE YOU WEHE THYING TO FENCE! WELL-YOU WEHE WHONC!" 
/\nd in the middln of' tlw ganrn. wn made a positive identification of' Bob Davie, who was sitting dirnctly across from us. llo'II deny it on rocord, but hn wavcid at us aftor our rnpoatod srrnam­ings of "COJ\CII DAVll-'.! 1!1 PUT MF IN! !'VE BEEN PH/\CTlCINC;!" 
I hopo he didn't lake us snriously. Wn need lo cons1irvn our wind. you know. 
Mary lleth Hllis is a senior at Saint Mary's Colfeg<' who is majoring in /!'11glish and political scin1ce. 
The views expressed in this column are those oflhe author and nol necessaril!f those of The Ohseruer. 
. ''.,' ' .. 

THE 
Tuesday, March 2, 1999

By LOUBEL CRUZ 
Assisranr Scene Editor 
Many students come to the University of Notre Dame with an undecided major and no sense of which profession to pursue. 
Medicine? Engineering? Law? Business? The possibilities are endless when a first-year student enters college and even greater when they gradu­ate. 
Eventually a career path is chosen and through the help of advisors. classes and peers, students decides on which profession they will focus their goals. To help students prepare for their respective earner, numerous organizations and clubs offer guidance and activities to encourage and enlighten students. 
There are clubs on campus for nearly every career. One of those organizations is the pre-Vet Club of the University of Notre Dame for all the 
'THE PRE-VET CLUB WILL GIVE INSIGHT AND 
ADVICE ON THE DIFFERENT (GRADUATE) 

SCHOOLS AND CAREER OPTIONS AND THEIR 
APPLICTION PROCESSES.' 
LAURIE 5TROTMANP CO-PRESIDENT, PRE-VET CLUB 

students who plan to be veterinarians. 
"The purpose of the pm-Vet Club is to provide resources for those students hoping to attend vet­erinary school or to study other animal related fields," said Laurie Strotman, co-president of the club. "The club will give insight and advice on the different schools and career options and their application processes... 
The pre-Vet Club officially meets once every month with a lecture given by an expert in the field. The club also provides a lecture series, hands-on experience at veterinarian clinic, and possible volunteer opportunities in the South Bend community. Oncf1 or twice a semester, the club takes a day trip to a related area, such as the Brookfield Zoo in Chicago or the Veterinarian School at Purdue. 
"We hope to allow the students to volunteer at a variety of places, so that not only can they see exactly the 'way things work,' but also to see which area of animal medicine it the best for them," said Strotman. "And because of the lecture series given by experts in specialized fields, the 
A Career Path to 
Student clubs offer guidance for fut 
''Pre-Career'' Student Organizations and Clubs 
members can see a wide variety of what possible options aro out there for them." 
A key goal for the pre-Vet Club is to assist mem• hers in the application pr1Jcess to veterinarian school by providing information on either the spe­cific process or requirements needs to gain accep­tance. 
"!Through the club,] students arc able to gain the experiences that are looked upon favorably by vet schools, such as volunteering at community vot clinics, helping out at a raptor rehabilitation cen­ter or attending a lecture series given by experts," explained Strotman. 
ror all the potential engineers at Notre Dame, there are also a number of clubs and organizations in a variety of specializations -Aeronautics and Astronautics, Chemical, Civil, and Mechanical Engineering and a Society of Women Engineers. 
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers meets once a month with a guest speaker or an off­campus activity. The Society hopes to prepare its members for a future career by introducing people who are already in tho field. 
"The purpose of our group is to promote and fos­ter mechanical engineering growth between stu­dents, faculty and members of the society," said Society president Allison Johnson. "We provide students with the opportunity to meet members of the engineering community. We also provide activ­ities sp that the MEs will leave Fitzpatrick Hall for awhile." 
This year, the Society brought in three major speakers who discussed issues from opportunities available to Mechanical Engineers pursuing a busi­ness degree to a talk about choosing your first career lead by a regional representative of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. The club hopes to bring in a representative from the Graduate School for students interested in further­ing their. ME degree. 
The Society also encourages and supports stu­dents who attend Regional Conferences where they can present research they have studied or done. 
"The conferences provide an opportunity to net­work with industry representatives and other department representatives," said Johnson. 
There are 40 members officially registered with the club, but meetings are open to all MEs and their peers. 
The Minority pre-Medical Society consists of approximately 20 members and meets twice a month to discuss the ways and means of getting accepted into medical school. 
"We inform the minority pre-medical students of the opportunities available to them during the school year and during the summer," said Fidel Ogeda, president of the Society. 
* 
Pre-Dental Society 

* 
Pre-Physical Therapy Club 

* 
Pre-Vet Club 

* 
American Inst. of Aeronautics & Astronautics 

* 
American Society of Civil Engineers 

* 
American Society of Chemical Engineers 

* 
League of Black Business Students 



* 
Pre-Law Society 


* 
Pre-Professional Society 

* 
Minority Pre-Medical Society 

* 
American Inst. of Architecture Students 

* 
American Society of Mechanical Engineers 

* 
ND Comtcil on International Business Development 



The Society helps membPrs in the selection of classes and preparation l'or thn MCAT. Tlw club also coordinates speakers who help hopnf'ul doc­tors make the correct career decisions. 
The Minority pre-Medical Society will be hosting a bone marrow drive in the LaFortune Ballroom on March 19. 
A listing of the academic clubs and organizations 
on  campus can  be round in the University tele­ 
phone directory  or through the Club Coordination  
Council.  


A complete listing of academic clubs can be found in the telephone directory. 

......
en@ s 
O
THE 

BSERVER page 11 
ollow 

e professions 
.• .II .• Y. t , ~ :. ·f 
.· ....-..."'...... 

'J 
I 
' 
I ,

,; 
I

/ 
I 


Be the journalist vou alwavs wanted to be! 
WORK FOR SCENE. SCENE NEEDS: FEATURE WRITERS ASSISTANT EDITORS COPY EDITORS 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED, CONTACT MIKE AT 1-4540 OR 4-3271 
¦ SELF-HELP FROM THE OFFtcJ;,0F ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATtON 
Important Questions Answered 
Special to The Observer 


Q: 
My 21st birthday iscoming lip. The tradition is to drink 21 sbots, but l just don't want to. How can I handle that? 

A. 
Whoa! You're talking about a.c.uit&tn that is life-threatening. This isn't just about peer pressure; it's about life and death. Have you heard about the Michigan State student who rocently died from alcohol polsoning'tft happens all too. often. 


College rituals aremostl~Jt~out pe~rpressun,, When.people feul that they should go along with atraditilm like 21 shots to celebrate 21 years. it's because they don't want to rock the boat or appear different. They want to be "normal." But doing something Iife-thnHttening just to fit in is not normal. 
Beforeyou think, "-Everyone does it," re~examine reality and see if perhaps most people don't do it. And remember.those tha;t'do are virtually asking for trouble. This is a situation you shouldn't justavoid; you should spread the word to otllflrs that this tradition can kill. It's that serious. 
Whatever the ritual, if you still feel pressure to get involved, consider two strategies: avoid• ance a:nd humot,lfyou bj!,yeji't tol~fi\t'iryoM.that your birthday is approaching. tlH~Y won't know. Avoid the issue by getting awayfrom campus. How about sharing a special meal or event with significant peophl in your)ife? · 
Humor also works. l heard a st.ry about a.ritual where fraternity pledges were expected to chug a bo.ttle of c)lampagn<tOno ~Jhoughtl~ was stupid, but didn't want to soem nerdy. So when his turn came, he shook the ob(tle vigorously, opened it, and sprayed the other guys. Tension diffused. chugging avoided, a good time was had by all. 
So be creativo. You can celebrate your birthday any way you want. The most important thing, however, is,to make choiees>thatwill insure that you make it to your 22nd birthday. Alcohol poisoning ts a deadlysituat\qtj,d)on't get involved. 
Q: 
With exams approaching, I'm tl'mpted to take some uppers to keep me going. If J do thnt only.once,itwon'thutt me: ~!Hit? 

A. 
Stimulants are a large category of substances ranging from coffee to caffeine products like Vivarln and No-Doz to diet plllsJo drugs like amplrntamines and cocaine. They are tempting.during 13gams '\-\',Mnyou.11;, extra~~~rgy. • 


You won't clarify what types ofu .···. syou're considering--coffee or cocaine. Thern's a huge difference. Whereas two or three cups ofcoffee over several hours is not a l)roblem. illegal drugs are unnecessary and harmful. 
Over the counter products HkeN~,p.oz or Vi'varin can he effective, but should be used s1msi­bly; Mixing extra doses of one oftho§~ products with a huge amount of caiTeinated soda on an empty stomach can leave you thrc:;wing up instead of getting work done. And that defents the purpo.so. So doso it carefully. 
Think of some natural ways to stiniuJate yourself to stay awake and study. First, avoid the need fotlast mim:tte cramming a11t'lp~an yolfrjjtudying over a longer period of' time. Eat a healthy diet during exam week arid ~rink plenty of water (dehydration can really cause slug­gishness.] Plan some breaks during the long study hours as motivation. ''If I work hard on this Poly Sci for two hours. I can ddeiny bike a couple to miles, or meet a friend to watch some telllvision)' . . ·. .·• ·.••·.·.·..:..•...··. .·. .. . · .. . •...·.· < 
You may think, ':'Great idea; but .......... oo late now. I've got three tests tomorrow." If' that's the case, there's no need to avoid coffee or stimulants all together. Just choose legal ones, and use them sensibly. 
Q: My boyfriend is so sweet when he's not drinking. The problem is that my ptirents and friends llave seen him get mean a co11ple of times (when he's been drinking} and they think he's bad forme. How can I co:nvince th~m that hls drinking is only a ''sometimes" 
ili~~ . . 

A. Your question raises a few red f1ags for me. and I don't even know you. Many times par­ents don't know our friends as well ~swe do,' a.Qd t:hey can be wrong about somebody, bui in this cas~your patents nrnj,'1:,g pl'lt6,$0'.1'1¢thfng;.. · 
Here are a few things fo think al>Qi.It.HowOften is "sometimt's'!" Doos he really got "mtmn," and arc you sure he's nevl'lr mMn when he's not drinking. What I'm getting at is that drink­ing doesn't norma.Hy chang-0 someonfs basic personality. Instead, alcohol ls an intensifier ot' moods. Itr-au make an angryporson n1or-e angry. It can1uake a quiot p,,,rson quiMEir. It turns up the volume on one's persomtlity'. , 
If your boyfriend has a prcdh;table personality change after drinking, this is noi nornrnl. It mri.y be that he is abusing alcohol or that his alcohoJ use has boen masking psychological problems. It mayJ>c that he has a C{ltl,Jnical reaction to the alcohol. Hopefully, you can N1l',oura.ge him to take a lookat his alehohol use and find out what Is b1;1hind tlrn pl1rsonaliiy changes. Also you should take a look at your reactions to him, and mako suro you aren't refusing to see any meanness when he is sober. 
Your parents and l could be wrong, o.nd your boyfriend could be "Mr. Bight," hut until you bothex1t:mino his alcohol hab1ts, l dqrj.'f thin'k, so -a.t least not yet. 
For answers to qnestions about alcohol or drug problems iii your life. call the OJftce of AlcoMland Drttg.Eduoalion. @631, 7JJ7-(), This Reachout Column is provided by the Lowe Famil!/ Foundation. Visit them atwww.fowefamil!J.org. 
... 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 2, 1999 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL ¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Yankees may rename Slammin' Sammy arrives 
House that Ruth Built 
Associated P rcss name Yankee Stadium." 
Hubenstein said. "If anything, 
NEW YORK they would attach to the name 
Budweiser Yankee Stadium? Yankee Stadium. It would be to 
Or maybP. Yahoo! Yankee the corporation's advantage to Stadium? attach onto the Yankee name 
The Yankees. in the process rather than do what happened of merging their business oper­in New Jersey." ations with th,, New Jersey The Yankees and Nets have a Nets, may be willing -for a memorandum of understanding price -to change the name of about the mergor, but must still the House that Ruth Built. negotiale a complete agree­
"Sooner or later. they will be ment -never an easy task internstt>d in it," said Howard when Steinbrenner is involved. Rubenstein. the spokesman for "Issues such as naming rights YankceNets. "But thP-y will and joint promotions. market­probably will want to deter­ing issues and signagc arc mine where they want to place being discussed now," a new Yankee Stadium, and Rubenstein said. then they'll deal with all the While Yankee Stadium is ancillary issues." owned by N1>w York City. 
The Yankees· lease to play in Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has Yankee Stadium expires in said he expected naming rights 
thrne vears. and the team has to be part of any development 
talked about three options: of redevelopment package. 
rebuilding the current ball­In the last fow years, Cinergy park. which opened in 1923 {Cincinnati), Edison and was extensively remodeled International (Anaheim), from 1974-76; constructing a Qualcomm (San Diego), Pro new ballpark near Madison Player (Florida), 3Com (San Square Garden on the West Francisco) and Tropicana Side of Manhattan; or con­(Tampa Bay) have signed deals structing a new ballpark in to gets their names on major New Jersey. league ballparks, and Bank 
Yankees owner George One (Arizona) and Coors Steinbrenner expects New York (Denver) attached their names City or New Jersey state and/or to new ones. municipal governments pay for Between now and 2001. ball­most of the construction, but parks with corporate names no financing has appeared and will open in Detroit (Comerica). the team hasn't committed to Milwaukee (Miller), Pittsburgh any plan. ( PNC). San Francisco (Pacific 
Hubenstein thinks the Bell) and Seattle (Safeco). 
"Yankee" will remain in Steinbrenner has been Yankee Stadium no matter aggressive with his marketing what, even if there's an addi­deals, agreeing two years ago tion. He doesn't expect the to a $95 million, 10-year con­name to meet the fate of the tract with Adidas even though Nets' home court, which start­parts of it conflicted with base­ed out at Brendan T. Byrne ball's national marketing deals. Arena and become Continental Although the Yankees and Airlines Arena in 1996 after Adidas sued baseball in Mav the company agreed to pay $29 1997. the case was resolved a ,willion over 12 years. year later, with the sporting 
"Thev would consider nam­goods company signing a ing rights, but I doubt very national agreement with Major much they would eliminate the League Baseball Properties. 
Associated Press 
MESA. Ariz. 
Well-traveled and bulked up, Sammy Sosa began a new season with his familiar smile. Clowning with teammates as fans lined the practice field, he was obviously pleased to be back. 
There is no prnssurn. he said, to repeat his 1\1\'P season of a year ago when he and Mark McGwire recharged baseball with the greatest home run derbv ever. 
"I }ust feel happy," he said after reporting to spring training Monday. "Everybody is here waiting for me. I love it. ... The race with Mark was great ­bark and forth. We were motiva­tion for each other. I just hope 1 can continue doing the job. I don't know ff I can have another year like that, but you never know what will happen." 
McGwire won the home run race 70-66, but Sosa helped the Chicago Cubs reach the playoffs by hitting .308 with 158 RBIs. 
If pitchers don't give him any­thing to hit this year, Sosa said he's prepared. 
"Then I 'II go to first. take a walk," he said. "This is not 1998. We don't need to go out and break records anymore." 
Sosa was enjoying himself, cut­ting up with everyone from the time he walked into the club­house early Monday. But his first day was not pain free. 
When a fan tossed a ball over a high fence for Sosa to autograph, it came as a surprise and plopped on the head of the nor­mally sure-handed right fielder. 
Sosa sent six batting-practice homers over the fence at Fitch Park, but facing reliever Rod Beck, Sosa fouled a ball off his groin area and fell to the grass in pain. He shook it off' and moments later was able to par­ticipate in a base-running drill. 
"It got me pretty good," he said. 
On a brilliant day with temper­atures in the 80s. fans followed his every move, chanting his 

name. "Seventy-six this year," one yelled. 
Bats, shirts, programs and even an Arizona license plate "Maris 61" were presfmted f'or Sosa to sign. 
"There will be more pressure on him because of what he did last year," teammate Gary Gaetti said. "He can handle it." 
As Sosa hit the field for the first time. he was greeted not only by the fans but by a battery of cam­eras. 
"Welcome to my house," he said laughing as his teammales. gathored for stretching, b<'gan to applaud him. 
General manager Ed Lynch 
'I'VE BEEN MEETING A 
LOT OF PEOPLE I WOULD HAVE: NEVER DREAMED 
ABOUT.' 

SAMMY SOSA 
CUBS OUTFIELDER 
stood in the middle of one field and bowed to Sosa -much as the right field bleacher bums at Wrigley Field do before every home game -and Sosa raced across the manicured grass to shake his hand. 
"Hey, you miss me, baby?" a playful Sosa said, shaking hands with second baseman Mickey Morandini and shortstop Jeff Blauser in the clubhouse, shortly after his arrival. 
He quickly hugged longtime equipment manager Yosh Kawano, who has been with the Cubs since 1943. 
"Every time I turned on the TV. you were there," coach Billy Williams told Sosa. "You rcadv to do this again?" · 
Sosa spent a whirlwind offsea­son traveling the world, picking up awards, working for Dominican Republic hurricane relief and making public appear­ancos. Ue was in Japan. Venezunla, Pu(irto Hico, New York, Los Angeles, Arizona, Atlanta. Las Vegas and Washington, where he helped light the national Christmas tree and attended the State of the Union address. 
In contrast, McGwire went on vacation to Australia and made almost no personal appearances. 
'Tm satisfied because (16 is a lot or home runs and lot of' peo­ple wanted to shake my hand," Sosa said. "I've been me1)ting a lot or people I would have never drnamod about. The nicer you am to people, the morn they want to be around you. 1 think I have earned that respect from everybody." 
Ile said a humanitarian award he won at the ESPYs nrnant as much to him as the MVP because it represented something other than his accomplishments on the field, 
"I savnd a lot of livos back homn because of the lrnlp that camn in," he said. 'Tm doing something grnat and will contin­ue to do it." 
Sosa's arrival Monday came three days al'tcr the team's first full-squad workout but still ahead of Tuesday's mandatory rnporting date. IIn also rnported thren days later than most or his teammatns last season and it certainly didn't hurt him. 
Hn came to camp biggnr than last season -his muscular arms bulged and tlrnrn was a little roll around his middle. Ho said lrn was up to 222 pounds which would be a 12-pound incrnase f'rom what Jw was listed at last season. 
"It's all muscle, no fat," he said with a huge laugh. He said he wasn't tired from his offseason travnl. just ready to play. His longest stretch at home since the season ended was about two weeks. 
''I've been busy. But I'm only 30 years old and I don't get tired," he said. "To gnt tired is mental, and I'm strong mental­ly." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.rn. co 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.rn. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
..  NOTICES Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise'5Nights $279tlncludes  Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black Caselogic carrying case. Lost in LaFortune the night of 2/26/99. Monetary reward being offered if found. No questions asked. Please call Brian at 4-1126 wl any  FOR RENT WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM  FOR SALEI I NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min. $20 call 258-4805  • FREE BOOK• Read a novel for a psychology study. For more info call Dr. Radvansky's Memory Lab 1-9003  Gina -don't worry! You, Usher and your 3.2 kids will all live in Annunciata with me next year . To all of Joe Kozminski's friends ­ 
Meals & Free Parties!Awesome Beaches.NighllifelDeparts From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399!  info.  STARTING $185 MONTH/PERSON 232-2595  Steel bookcase. 7 shelves. 246-1668  Call  Carolyn&Mary(and Aaron. though you'll never read this)-Gel ready for  Here. you all get a classified. Stop whining. -Laura  

springbreaktravel.com the time of our lives!!!! Cancun here 
WANTED

1-800-678·6386 NICE HOMES FOR NEXT we come! Connolly is a copy-editing god. 
TICKETS

SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND (and we're legal) Spring Break Panama City SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 Love the fourth party Mike you're a little jiglet. $129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen Make a difference in the life of a I'd love lo use a classified from Next To Clubs!? Parties-Free child!Summer therapy camp for BED 'N BREAKFAST Need your extra graduation California. but I'd have to edit them! Chicago: my kind of town. Chicago Drinks!Daytona $149!South Beach handicapped children.Located on REGISTRY tickets! Please call Kelly is! $129!Cocoa Beach $149! shore of Lake Superior near Big 219-291-7153 @243-8932. Acutally, I'm innocent but naughty! springbreaktravel .com Bay,MI. Positons available for Sinatra was a hood. 1-800-678·6386 Counselors,Waterfront,lnstructors FLORIDA SPRING BREAK HAG -Your term at The Owasso 
for Nature/ Arts & killer diller. But Tony Bennet is still the man. How Green is Green? Crafts/Recreation/Canoeing/Kayaki SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH PERSONAL Okay, he's my man. 
ng,Nurses, Therapists, Food RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH Trust us, we'll do our best to make Work in Ireland on a Student Service.and Auxiliary.Must be FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER-Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in it freaky deaky. Sid's -don't tell nobody. Work Abroad Program and find out! enthusiastic,responsible,and love SON Lafortune. FAX Sending and We are technically disgusting! Each 
children.June 13 through August 8. 3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZY Receiving: 631-FAXt and every one of you I Well, I am still slightly sunburned. Call 1 ·888·Council and ask for Salary,room & board.and RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE Annunciata is going to be the Tom. experience of lifetime provided.Call HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO· When you need copies ... rockin' sorority next year. A & Al My LA pictures come back 
or write for application and informa-PLE FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 We're OPENIIJ Wednesday. Aren't you so excited? CANCUN, BAHAMAS lion.Bay Health Camp, WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM Bounce wit' me. bounce wit' me. PANAMA CITY 310 W. Washington.Suite THE COPY SHOP Shanahan-Get FREE PARTIES with USA 300,Marquette,MI 49855. 3 BDRM, DUPLEX, Lafortune Student Center J & J -I promise I'll be a good Had any RR today? Spring Break! (906)228-5770,e-mail REMODELED, 501 EDDY ST. 631-COPY roomie this summer! Thanks. -P-tel Call 1 ·888-777-4642 to book BayCliffHC@aol.com 1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.APPL!­
your trip today! ANCES, WID. Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight TWEAK1 Just wait 'Iii next year. HELP WANTED: 273-8332. Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Tweak, tweak, tweak. Angela, Sid and, yes. Mohammed RETAIL SALES Sat: Noon-6:00pm TWEAK! all over again 
ILOST & FOUND I 
New store in U.P. Mall House For Rent Sun: Noon-Midnight 

1 Full,2 Part-time needed 4-5 Bedroom Apparently the conference folk C· LOST: Notre Dame Class Ring. Flexible hours,good pay Close to Campus didn't recognize our superiority' All that was said Sunday night is Description: Aquamarine stone with Call now (419)233-1325 Includes: Dishwasher. $6 HAIRCUTS Those bumbling, short-sighted igno-officially oft the record. We were name engraved on the inside of the Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove. ramuses!!!!! way too tired and were having 
ring. lnitials-PML Call 273·9813. Remodeling Kitchen in spring. V1to·s Barbershop some pretty twisted thoughts. 
Highly respons1ble,creative student RENT REDUCED! 1523 Uncolnway West MW -explain again how my going -CM Beanie Baby· Found Feb. 15th needed to care for 2 year old girl in Call 289-4712 Closed Sun. and Wed. to a psychic made your purse dis-between South Dining Hall and the Notre Dame professor's. Flexible Mon,Tues.Thurs,Fri 8-4 appear? K of C. {It looks new so I'm assum-hours. Transportation required.Call SUMMER SUBLEASE Sat. 8-3 FreakyDeaky. ing that it's someones V-day gift) 287-7483 or 1-6208 1 bdrm Campus View apl MAC -how's the potion-mixing and Call 234-6445. Call Carrie @ 273-2989 I think I need a haircut.. ..... spell-casting going? Killer Diller . 
. " ••• • • • • ••• • • ...... • ,.,. • ..... --16 ~.,..,,. A .t 1.-....•·"6 ~..-.~..& ,..~_........ .11'16',..,,,_...-".~,tl';a. ,r..r111ir:rJ:"1.-~.ll"lll'.JC'J/ll",l/flJl'S,IMZ:£Wllil'IM"•l"''"'r1J•l.#i//#ll'Yfl'l#IIII/Jl#.#"6J'".#,_.,..,.#llJll'..-..,,,,~.,,,ilfl~il'.JltlL-6.l!"Jll6,.t,1l"'.,.,..-. 
' ' '' • • ' ' ' I • • • • 

'li.1c,day, March 2, 1999 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Take a Road 0 Tr•r w•th 0 Electric 0 Beach  

 eefore you hi.t the road for take the nearest exi.t to THIS IS WHERE IT GETS GOOD  

 
THIS IS WHERE IT GETS GOOD  

,J 
I' I I< I 
, , . ' 
Tuesday, March 2, 1999

page 14 The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ TRACK ANO FIELD 
Shay, Arce lead Irish to strong indoor season finish 
By BRIAN HOBBINS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame men's and women's track teams wrapped up the regular indoor season with the Alex Wilson Invitational at Loftus Sports Center this weekend. 
Aside, from a few select ath­letes. this weekend's events represented th{' conclusion to the indoor season. 
The Alex Wilson Invitational provides Notre Dame athletes with a chance to compete against some of the finest ath­letes in the country and gives them one last shot at qualifying for the NCAA Indoor Tournament. 
Both the men and the women made solid showings in front of a sizeable home crowd. 
Ryan Shay led Friday's com­petition with a powerful perfor­mance in the 5,000-meters. 
He blew away the competi­tion. Crossing the finish line with a NCAA provisional quali­fication time of I 4.1 3.88, he finished 17 seconds ahead of his nearest competition. 
Friday's placing was· rounded 
out by an all-male cast includ­
ing Adrian Irby's second place 
finish in the triple jump at 47­
feet 8-inches. Other prime per­
formances were turned in bv 
Jay Hofner and Matt Thompson 
in the weight throw, an indoor 
variation of the hammer throw. 
On the women's side, fresh­
man Natalie Hallett tied tea­
mamte Bethany Wilson's 
record of 1O-feet-6-inches en 
route to a fourth place finish in 
the pole vault. Angela Patzio 
and Valerie Siqueira also 
turned in noteable perfor­time of 4.2.48-seconds. Arce mances in the triple jump and loved competing at home, 5000 meter, respectively. announcing that the crowd 
Saturday proved to be equally pushed him to the peak perfor­exciting for the Irish, in the mance. weekend's biggest crowd pleas­"The home crowd helped me er, senior Mike Brown broke out during the race, especially his own Notre Dame pole vault in the last quarter they helped record at 17-feet-6-and-a-half­me to take it home," he said. inches. "Unfortunately, I got nipped at 
With a large crowd surround­the finish lino, I didn't know ing the vault area, Hrown the guy was next to me." cleared the Established height on his performers third attempt, Marshaun competing with West and
'T"E HOME CROWD 
no one but him­Torry Wray
HELPED ME OUT DUR-
self. The vault completed the placed Brown ING THE RACE, FSPECIALLY day's placings for the men.
in the top 10 in THE LAST QUARTER THEY the nation and West estab­secured a HELPED ME TO TAKE IT lished a new 
NCM bid. HOME.' 
meet record in 
The only the long jump other first-place at 24-feet-11­finish for the ANTONTO ARCE a n d -t h r e e • men on IRJS!i TRACK TEAM MEMBER fourth inches. Saturday came Wray's time from emerging of 1.3.52 freshman Derek Dyer. Dyer placed him a full two seconds won the shot put with a throw ahead of the competion in the 
of 52-feet-3-and-one-quarter 500-meters. 
inches. The Notre Dame women also 
Dyer maintained his humility had a solid day on Saturday 
despite the great showing. claiming two first and two sec­
"It is an up and down thing. ond place finishr-s. 
Everyone has a good day every Jennifer Englehardt. riding 
once in a while; it is a team high on a NCAA qualifying 
effort. I expected a lot of good week, cleared 5-feet-8-and­
throwers to be there, but I threo-quarter inches in the 
finally had a good throw and high jump to claim first place. 
and broke through to the top," Englehardt did all this after 
he said. spending an evening in the 
Dyer credits teammates Matt emergency room, where it was 
Thompson and Scott Schargen believed she was battling 
for pushing him to the victory. appendicitis. As Saturday's 
Antonio Arce manged to race performance indicates, 
to a personal record in the Englehardt perfroms well 
mile, placing second with a under stress. This same ability will help Englehardt nt the tournament. 

"I went to the NCAAs my freshman year too. I was an All-American," she said. "I know the intensity of the meet. I want to give it my best and improve on what I did my freshman year." 
Erin Newman grabbed the other first-place finish for the women in the 1000-meter at 2.59.32. 
Freshman sprinter Liz Grow raced to a second-place finish in the 400-metors at 54.05 sec­onds. Despite just missing a first-place finish, Grow's time was one of tho 12 best in the nation, a Notre Dame record breaker and NCAA provisonal qualification. 
Grow is not worried about 
her first national meet or the 
shorter track at the NCMs. 
"It's going to be fun and I am 
excited," she said. "Because of the differences or the track, the turns arc more tight. tho pack is more tight and things get sneaky." 
Senior Nadia Schmiedt com­pleted the top finishes for the women, claiming second place in the 60-mctcr hurdles. Schmiedt has been battling injuries throughout the indoor season and looks forward to getting outside for the second half of the season. 
"The season went OK. I am still battling an injury but over­all I was happy with the results. I am just looking to got healthy and focus on the out­door season," she said. 
Englehardt, Brown, West, Joanna Deeter and Grow have all qualified for nationals at the time of this printing. while the others arc still waiting to hnar. 
The rest of the team has a 
break u n ti I the I' urd u o 
Invitational in late March. 


Why Are All of These Students Smiling? 

They arc enrolled in the secondary education program a1 Saint Mary's College and working towards the goal or becoming a licensed educator in the nation's schools. Any of these students can provide information ahout this program.Yuu can contact the Education Department. 320 l\tladeleva Hall, Saint ~1ary•s College at 284-4485 for ;idJiti(lnal inform:irion about becoming a professional educalor. 
WWW 

Tuesday, March 2, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Red Sox attempt to reunite Martinez brothers 
..... 

Associated Press 
FOlff MYEHS. Fla. 

The Boston H11d Sox have one thing no otlwr t<iam can offer frnc• ag,mt Hamon Martinllz as h1\ r,wovPrs from shou!dnr surgnry: his hrothnr l'ndro. 
"To tlH• Pxtnnt that Hamon wants to pitch with his brother. he's got to conrn here," Boston gmwral manager Dan Duqtmtl<' said with a laugh. "That and scvnra! million dollars will sign llw pitclwr." 
TIii' 1{1~d Sox may not bn too far away from doing that. "I k was pn•tty positive about rnaylH· signing h1ir11," 1>aid 
MARCHJ_
ntirtt£~ 
Center for the Homeless 
Auction '99 
Saturday, March 6, 1999 5:30-10:00 PM at the South Bend Century Center 
Pedro, who spoke Saturday to the Dodgers in 1993 when Hamon. who was in tho Pedro went 10-!i as a rookie, Dominican Republic. while Ramon was 10-12. 
Duquntte said Monday ho But in the five seasons since went to Santo Domingo two then, Ramon is (11-28 and is wenks ago to watch Hamon coming off a career-best 2.83 thrnw in his comeback from tho EHA. And Pedro won the Cy operation that ended his 11th Young award with Montreal in season with Los Angeles after 1997 and was 19-7 with a 2.89 just 15 starts. ERA with Boston last year. 
And while Duquette said thrnn "lle's always been the No. 1 or four other teams may be in starter for the Dodgers since the running, "we've had discus­1990," Pedro said, "so I guess sions a!! winter and I think I'd say we'll have two number thom's a general understanding one starters on ono team. That that Hamon dolls have some would be a great acquisition." interest in pitching on thn samn Not so fast, said Duquette, team with his brother again." although Ramon's already 
Thoy wnrn teammates with throwing o!T a mound and may 
be ready to continue his come­back by signing with a team. If it's the Hed Sox. Duquette doesn't sec him pitching in thn majors before the second half of the season. 
"He's progressing and he was in good shape prior to the surgery so we are proceeding on the basis that ho's eventually going to conrn back and be a decent major league pitcher," Duquette said. 
Asked if he WP.re confident Ramon would sign with Boston, Duquette said, "we're still work­ing towards it." 
Before he became Hed Sox manager in 1997, Jimy Williams was a coach with Atlanta and watched tlrn Braves l'ace Ramon. 
"lie seemed to hi' in control ol' himself out there," Williams said. "lie had composure on tJutt mound, didn't get rattled." 
In his last five seasons, Martinez was 12-7, 17-7, 15-6, 10-5 and 7-3 with EHAs of 3.97, 3.66, :3.42, 3.(,4 and 2.83. For his career, he has a .615 win­ning percentage and a :3.45 ERA. And he doesn't turn :n until March 22. 
Pedro, 27, would love to play with his brotlrnr. 

"It would feel great. It would bring back a lot of memorins about a lot of good monwnts that we had when we wern in L.A.," Pedro said. ''I'll havn my bnst friend" as a tnammatn. 
While both have be,m V<\ry successful, tlwir pnrsona!itins are difTernnt. 
"Ile's not a vnry outspoknn person. lln's vnry shy," Pedro said. "! le's a co!d-bloodnd man. I'm a litt!t! bit ol' a jumpy guy. aggressivn. I!n's vnry poisnd and very quiet." 
And hn 's not tlw only Marlinnz brother thn Hml Sox might bn intnrnstnd in reuniting with Pedro. Josus, a 24-ynar-old lnf'ty. was 7-(, with a <i:8:, EHA last snason as a startPr l'or Cincinnati's top farm Loam in Indianapolis, then undnrwent rotator cuffsurgnry. 
l'odro said .Jnsus has othor offers and may have a bctwr chance to pitch· on a less settled staff than Boston's, which is stocknd with reliabln wterans. Duquntto said he saw .lnsus throw a coup!n of' w,wks ago, but he wouldn't nocossari!y he part of' a package deal with Hamon. 
¦ NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
Gogan traded from 49ers to Dolphins 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLAHA, Calif. 
Guard Kevin Gogan, a Pro Bowl selection in each of' the past two seasons for the San Francisco 49ers, was traded Monday to the Miami Dolphins in exchange for an undis­closed draft pick. 
The 49ers, seeking morn maneuvering room under the salary cap. wern shopping Gogan for several weeks and recnivl'd an undisclosed cl ral't choice from Miami. 
San Francisco free safety Merton Hanks, another former Pro Bowler, also is on the trading block. 
Tho dealing of Gogan is the latest in a series of sweeping personnel moves by the 49ers. who began the offseason $28 mi!!ion over the $57.3 million 
ABSENTEE BIDDING AVAILABLE 
Place your bid today on exciting Notre Dame items including: 
• Notre Dame Honorary Coaching Positions: Become an honorary coach for the Spring Game on April 24, 1999, including the pregame luncheon, meetings, giving an inspirational pregame talk to your team, being on the sidelines and even calling a few select plays under the guidance of the coaching staff. 
• Football Fantasy Four tickets to the ND vs. Michigan State game on Sept. 18, 1999, with limo service to and from the game (restricted to St. Joseph County), and dinner at the Morris Inn following the game. 
• 
Armchair Quarterback Attend the team mass, have sideline passes and visit the locker room after either the Michigan State, Oklahoma, or USC home game. 

• 
Trojan War Four airplane tickets and four game tickets to the ND vs. USC game on Oct. 16, 1999, with four tickets to the College Football Hall of Fame and a room at the South Bend Marriott. 

• 
Di.nner with the Presidents Dinner with Father Malloy and Father Beauchamp; Dinner with Father Hesburgh and FatherJoyce. 


• Season Football Tickets, and Tickets to Away Games 
For more information or to place an Absentee Bid call Drew Buscareno at (219) 282-8700, extension 3Ji 
I• 

cap. 
Somo $:-HI milliou has lrncn lopped off tlrn t,iam's I ')')CJ player payroll in rocc'nt W!Wks through trades. contract restructurings, the release of players and tlrn loss of thrnn others in t!rn Cfpveland nxpan­sion draft. 
"It's always tough wlwn you have a vetnran rntini or lw tradnd," McVay said. "KPvin has bnnn a good l'ootball play­pr·and a good guy. 
"But the purpos() or doing tho deal was l'or long-rangP cap planning. .lust as impor­tant is that wo'vn got somt\ young guys· likn Jeremy Newberry and Phil Ostrowski that we need to bring along. We've got to get thnm in and play..~nvin was a l 2-ycar wt­oran. 
Gogan will hl\ joining his fourth· NFL team. 
Befoi·e coming to San Francisco as a l'rnn agnnt, Gogan played for tho Haiders and Cowboys, where he played for current Miami coach .Jimmy Johnson. 
"I'm very excited about going to Miami," said Gogan. "I talked to .Jimmy a couple times !Monday!. I've played for him before, obviously, and I've got a nice piece of {Super Bowl] hardware in my safe from him. I realize this is a great chancn for me." 
Still. Gogan. who was part of a San Francisco !inc that helped Garrison Hearst set a team rushing record (1,549 yards}. said he at f'irst found the trade rumors hard to believe. 
"It's kind of funny. I was in the !ocknr room at the Pro Bowl when so1m•body told mn he heard I was going to be traded," Gogan said. "I kind of !aughnd and said, 'It's not true.' But more and more peo­ple said it. and obviously, it turned into :-,1'tnething. 
"I still never thought I'd bP traded. espncia!!y when you did everything tlwy asked you to do." 
________..,_________________________________________________

r 
page 16 The Ohserver • SPORTS Tuesday, March 2, 1999 
B-Ball 
continued from page 20 
minute span, but McMillen·s thrno pointer and some clutch free throw shooting down the stretch sealed the victory for the Irish. 
"I think we never Inst our poise," said McGraw. who saw her Learn avenge a 77-57 loss to 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
an injury that means she will miss tonight's game. 
The injury has been labeled a sprained right knee. Ivey will undergo an MHI this morning to determine the extent of the injury. 
Ivey's injury didn't prevent her from being a motivational factor for her teammates as she sat on the b1rnch, her knee wrapped in ice. 
"I think at lirst i.L was a pretty emotional time for us," said team captain Sheila Mc~illen. 

Rutgers two weeks ago. "With Sheila McMillen on the floor that's not going to happen. She was able to get tlrn team togeth­er and they rallied around her." 
McMillcn finished with a gamn-high 19 points, while Ivey added 16. Riley had seven rebounds, along with five blocks which tics her for the school's single-season record (94). 
"Ruth Riley deserves all the credit in the world," said Rutgers 
"We were really worried about her because she's such a kev to our team We kind of got over that and we decided we were going to win this for Niele." 
Win they did, but not before the Scarlet Knights slowed down Notre Dame's scoring threat, now minus Ivey. Rutgers narrowed the gap to five points from the 13-point deficit they stood at when Ivey was laying in pain after her injury. 
McGraw's answer in the game's final minutes was a lineup that included the regular Irish starters -Ruth Hiley, Kelley Siemon, Green an.d MrMillen -and freshman Sherisha IIills to replace Ivey. 


The Observer/Liz Lang Freshman Sherisha Hills chipped in four points on the night. Following the loss of Niele Ivey, the Irish will look to Hills in the final. 
l(el/099 ln,titute 
lotin nm~rican rifm Jeth.~, 

• 
eased on the novella by Jose de la Cuadra, this Ecuadorian fcallffe looks al female ld,en'Jty through the eyes of Latin American ma~hi!imo culture. The film lcll.s the story of three orphaned sis~ers who are led by the eldest. Fra.nciscJ.. She is aggressiv~rotrictivc or her :.ibiings, ilr.::f confrontation au!.CS when Sara, the Jot1ngi:>~f. n~ct:1v11s a mctr,;Ci:Jo;.: r,ropo;,,$.:,1. lhJ n;ir-::ss-:!:; the rn:,•u, ct V.'Ol:lar. bd1'1Jt,f',JI_ :!.P.:1.rnl, powcrlul ,1.:,d rc,.·c-rcd. This film m.:iy be !'le bc:.t ,,;s~;.:1,; 
equ1'1.1ler! ofli'.erary 'rna:gical rcall~m• ~var film~::! nnd wi!S awJrd•J:.; Ul·?' Gr::.;t f•!:·1 PriLe ai ln,~ 1930 Ca~t11g~n1t fum Fc:.tival · 
Sp;,n,-.;fi v,.,ff.n9i,.,;1, ·,-,ti:1t1,,:. 
head coach C. Vivian Stringer. "We knew we wcren't looking for shots on her, but she came up with a lot of' blocks and did a lot of intimidating." 
Stewart had a team-high 18 points for Rutgers, but guards Tasha Pointer, Usha Gilmore and Young had a dismal evening, shooting a combined 5-of-26. Tammy Sutton-Brown added 13 points and 11 rebounds in the loss. 
llills, who started just one other game this season when she filled in for an injured Green against Syracuse, will get the call tonight against the No. 1 seeded Huskies. 
McGraw is certain that Hills will be ready to start against one of the quickest teams in the nation in sixth-ranked Connecticut. But with one less player on the bench against the depth that the Huskies pose will be a major factor in tonight's game. Georgetown's loss to Connecticut Monday night was in part due to the long bench that their opponents fielded. 
"There are a lot of big, strong bodies out there," said Hoyas' coach Patrick Knapp after his tea.m lost 77-42 to Connecticut Monday night in the other semifinal game. "They have depth. To be quite honest, we need to prepare better in order to score against them." 
With less than a day to pre­pare a game plan without Ivey, McGraw's team is at a huge disadvantage. 
"It is going to take a monu­mental effort," she said. "I think a lot of it is going to be mental. I think we've got to come in and be ready to handle the pressure, and we've got to come in with the attitude we had tonight." 
Overcoming the two mental roadblocks of a 77-57 loss to Rutgers and an 0-4 record in Louis Brown Athletic Center, the Irish defeated Rutgers. The roadblocks which they face against Connecticut is even greater. 



Today, Tuesday, March 2,1999 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
-. ---------­
--------'"1-1111•111•-------­
Tuesday, March 2, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
tion. But when it came down to round seeded third. iste.red as off target while Walsh hit her on the attack. I fenced it, we finished off Ohio Stale and The Irish faced Ohio State in lit the lamp and scored a touch, better this time than the two
TeaDI 
won tho title." lhe semifinals. In the regular which would have given her a 5-times before, even the time I 
-
J3r(Jken earrings, broken season, the Irish split the series 2 win. bc,at her."
continued from page 20 weapons and broken hearts with the Buckeyes, 1-1. Kalkina, however, immediately With tho Irish lnading 7-Ci, Caim WcstHrn Hesnrvn, bested characterized the i.ntcnse team The Irish jumped out to a 6-5 protested to the director claim­Brown matched up with Kalkina Clcvnland State 5-2 and competition for the women's lead on the Huckeycs before ing that Walsh had covered her­in another close match. Brown Michigan 5-'.{. In lhc semis, the cpee toam. dropping four straight and self with her arm. The director took a 4-2 lead before Kalkina salmmi,m downnd Ohio State 5-1 The Irish entered the day con­falling 9-6. did not see the cover so he could battled back to lie the match at brl'ort) moving to a rematch with lident that they would avenge Mustilli and Krol again led the not rule. Walsh, in the spirit of 4-4. Brown captured the next Clnvrland State in the finals. prnvious losses against Ohio team, picking up all six victories. sportsmanship, admitted to cov­touch and the bout. /\lthotq~h llw prnss11re was State and Northwestern. With The matches with the Wildcats ering and lost her point. With the Irish leading 8-7, 1-{rnntor. the rnsults wern Urn home advantage and /\11-and fluckeyes combined with a "That call was scary," Walsh senior Gina Couri stoppnd onto sanw as llw Irish pickncl up Amcrican Magda Krol's return tough <J-5 victory over Illinois­said. "I was very scared after I the strip. Couri had to win the anotlwr 5-2 victory. artcr missing the match against Chicago earlier in the morning admitted to covering. I started bout or the Irish would lose on Fn·sl111Hu1 Cabor Szcllc and Northwtistcrn duo to Junior made it a tiring day for tho Irish. getting very tentative aftnr that indicators and the Buckeyes captain I.uh LaValln led Lim Parents Weekend, Irish hopes "It was tough," Mustilli said. "I call because I was nervous." would own the Midwest foil title lPam to victory with IO and nine WPf{l high. am pretty worn out. There were Kalkina capitalized on Walsh's for the second straight year. wins, rns1wrt.iv1!ly. '.\Jotrc Dame's chanc11s for three hard matches. We fought tentativeness to pick up the next Couri. liowevnr. fnncnd lrnr The Irish dorninancn was rar 1·nve11g<1 rirst came against as hard as we could but they two points and tie the match at best match of thn day and won from 111wx1Hwled. :\II ol" Urn com­Northwm,tern. AII-Amnrkan cap­ultimatelv beat us." four. Walsh. howevf'r, relaxed 5-2. pnlilors WPrP w1•ll-known to tain Nicoll~ Mustilli and Krol, two The lri;h had trouble adjusting and took the next point and the "I think we fenced pretty well Nolrn l>anw. of' ttrn most intens11 foncors on to the patient style of the bout to give the Irish an impor­on tho whole," Walsh said. "WP lwvn SP<'n all llwse tnams the team, both fenced well. Buckeyes and Wildcats. Neither tant 5-4 lead. "Myriah and I both pullnd lrnl'on•," 1.aValln said. "Wn k11nw Following every victory, leam attacked Irish opponents "I have been training a lot through with wins ovcir Kalki11a. what was nuning." Mustilli thrnw off her helmet and very oftnn. Usually, they wero hardor this week for Kalkina," We aro a lmtter team than thew Tlw 11w11's npc·c team entered relnasncl an ululation of joy. She contnnt to sit hack and counter­Walsh said. "I have beon laking arc. So WC should win. We dirl the, wtinkcmd looking forward to once threw lmr helmet so hard attack. a lot of lessons. I have been try­what was nxpnctBd. \VP didn't a r1!Vt'll){P match against that it lore the earring out of her "It is a lot easier wh,~n llH1y are ing not to let her hit me on a fence exceptionally WPll but we l.awrl'llrl'. l.ast wp11kc!1Hl, car. This minor setback, howev­attacking you because they can counterattack so thal I always did what we had to do." l.awri•111·1• had df'fc•atml tlw Irish. Hr, ditl not phast! Mustilli as slu-i make more mistakes," Mustilli !i-4. postnd a 4-0 re<'ord against the said. "Def'cnse is a Int easier !nstcad ol' an awnging victory Wildcats. sonrniimes. Patience is a key for ovPr I.awn•nct•, the c'JHH1 squ1td Krol is m1ually as intonsn. I lcr them hut we just ne,!d to be had to st'ltll' for a !i-2 victory, loud shouts indicate HVPry suc­morii_yatinnt wlrnn we fence surprising Ohio Slat11 in thn cnssf'ul touch. 111 a particularly them. finals. intPnsc> hout, shn at.tacked so Despite the close defeats, the "Ohio St.al.I' s11rpriscd Ill!!," hard that her epce broke into Irish still managed to battle bar.k 
11J>P1' ('aptain Tim Monahan said. thnw pi11ces. against Michigan and win third ·•wp l'acnd tlwm !'or tlw fifth limP Krol and Muslilli ,·ombitrncl for place. and thP i111provnm1•11t tllcy hav11 sf!vc111 of llrn eight victorios In their la.st match fencing 
shown si1wn tlw honw nwnt and against NorthwestHrn. under it, the seniors on the al DukP, whPr1• WP rollc!d ovm· With Lim Irish trailing 8-7, Krol women's foil team shone like the tllf'm, is grPaL Today. llwy gavn foncml the last bout. If she could Golden Dome as they recaptured us two tough rounds." cldeat her opponent by mon') tlrn Midwest foil title from Ohio 
l•:wn with thPir gn1at improvc­than two touches, the Irish State. mPn t, till' lluckPyns wore 1111 would win the tiebreaker and The foil team coasted through match l'or an Irish squad that take the bout nn indicators. their pool and crushed has hl'1~11 1·onsist1•nt all year. While Krol did win the bout 2-Northwestern in the semifinals, 
SPnior All-/\mt'rican C.J. 1. her opponent, knowing that 9-4. 
.htt·kson wPnl undeli1all'Cl m1 tlrn she only had to force a dose loss. The victory over thn Wildcats day to h•ad tlw squad with I:{ hung back and rnfus11d to attack set up a match with Ohio State vit'lori1•s. Frnsllman Hrian Casas or makn a move. Krol managed for the third time on the year. also r,•ncncl wPII. going 1)-2. to lmmk her defenses to pick up The Buckeyes featured junior 
"It was a tough day bncause it two toudws before limn ran DUt Yrlcna Kalkina, one of the top 1A·as so long," Monahan said. and the hout was called. women's l'oilist in the country. "WI' f1•111·1•d n1aliy wP!I !'or as Whil1! lwr victory ti,~d tlrn With the score tied at 4-4, tin•d as WP wc•n• l'SpPcially match at night bouts apiece, Walsh faced Kalkina. Walsh against Ohio Slatn. II was tough Northwestern won on indicators. jumped out to an early 4-2 lead 
lo go from tlw 11asy f'arly compn­64-63. bnforn controversy struck. lili1111 lo tlw tm1gh latPr rompeti-Dc1spite the loss, the c)pce team Kalkina attacked and Walsh still 1rnternd the elimination countered. Kalkina's attack reg-
in 14th and 15th place, rnspec­many calls. 
ti ve Iy. Kelly Orsi took 20th "My opponnnt and I both while Elizabeth Dailny rounded agreed that tlw rt'l'1•rp•• was continued from page 20 out the Irish field al 21st. bad," SzPlln said. "]Ip spPaks Unliku the women's tourna­FrPnch, but lw is not a good
Lured two three-time All­
Individual 

ment, where all the f'avnrites rl'f'ernti. Ile fonls v•1ry confident 
Americans in Irish seniors 

met in tlw finals, lhe men's rderneing bouts but lw is not Myriah Brown and Sara Walsh. 
tournament was filled with sur­verv consistc1nt." Walsh and Brown am well­
prises. sielle clominalnd his final 
acquainted because they have 

The biggest surprisn of' the against Hoselli. winning 15-7. 
fenced together at the Indiana 

tournament occurred in the "I didn't foncn too wnll Fencing Academy since age 12. men's foil semil'inal. Irish ISalurclay] so I was worrind "It's hard to l'ence her 
senior Stephane /\uriol .fell to about today," Szdle said. "I had because we know each other so 
Martin Koren nf' Cleveland fenced IHosellil earlinr today so 
well," Walsh said. "Fencing her 

State, 15-7. I was very confident goingis like fencing my double." 
Despite not winning an indi­against him. I basically justWalsh got the best of' Brown vidual foil title. lhe men's foil crushed him in tlw·linal." in the final, winning 1!i-<>. 
perl'ornrnd extremely well over­LaVallt1 11nishnd firth on tlw Brown still had a successful 
all. day. Senior Steve McQuadn 
tournamnnt. In the scmif1nals. 

Freshman Steve Mautone, look 7th. Brian Banas and Clayshe faced junior All-American juniors Charles llayos and .Jim Morton look 12th and 2 l st,Yolena Kalkina of Ohio State. 
Harris all placed in the top I 0. respectively.The match was Light before Chris Brough, Mark Swiney and The men's cpt~e semifinals ,. Brown pulled out to a 14-12 
Jeremy Beau finished 12th, fllaturnd thrne Irish l'nncers. 
lead. Kalkina battled back, 

14th and 16th, respectively. Junior .lames Gaitlrnr defeated 
however. a.nd tied the match at 

/\nother Irish favored to win freshman teammate Brian 
14. a championship, All-/\merican Casas in ono snmifinal, 15-12. 
Time expired and tho match 

Luke LaValle, was upset in thA In the finals, Im took on two­movc!d into a one-minute ovPr­
sabre tournament. 1.aVallc foll limn All-/\nwrican t1~ammate limc pnriod. to Cleveland State All-American C..J . .Jackson. In an ups1•t.If at the end of' tlrn onc­
Paolo Roselli in the quartcrl1-Gaither dmninati•d tlw matrh to 
minutn pnriod there wnrP. still a 

nals. win 15-11. lie. the winner ol' a coin toss 
Freshman Gabor Szelle and Gaithcr's vi,·torv was a shock 
would win lhe match. The coin 

s_nphomore George Viamontes cvnn to him. · toss before the overtime was 
each advanced to the semifi­"I had been fencing Brian won by Kalkina. 
nals. Hoselli knocked anotlrnr prntty well in practicl' so I I-frown had to scorn a touch 
Irish fencer out when he beat wasn't surprised when I won,"within one minute or she would 
Viamontes in the semifinals. Gaither said. "But the win over 
losn the match. 

Szellc bat.tied fellow fresh­C.J. was unexpPCI.Pd. lie had 
Despite the added pressure, 

man .lakub Krochmalski of boen hnating me in practice."
Brown scnrod a quick touch to 

Wavne State in the st•milinals. Freshman Nitin Chandra took win15-14. An otherwisn close and excit­8th. /\ndy Mctrailcr took 12th 
Foil captain Nicole Paulina 

ing match, it was marred by wh iln t•ppe captain Tim finished I0th in her linal home 
controversial directing. Both Monahan placf!d 17th. 
tournamunl. Aimee Kalogera 
sabrcmen seemed angry about 
and Gina Couri linished the day 



Please recycle The Observer. 
page 18 The Observer. SPORTS Tuesday, March 2, 1999 
¦ MEN'S LACROSSE 

Penn State gives team first loss 
¦ WOMEN'S SOFTBALL
-
Irish win three at Choo Choo Classic 
they are handling it well. 
"I think that Division I softball is definitely a different game than anything they've played before," Sharon said. "I know it's difficult io start or even play a lot as freshman. Thev are def­initely rising to the occ·asion." 
"I don't really feel like a freshman." said Myers. "We'rn all so close, they make me feel so comfortable and l get a lot of support from my teammates. They are great." 
The Irish will play in the Arizona Tournament this week­end where they hope to contin­ue their winning ways through intensity and teamwork. 
"What makes this team so great is that there isn't one individual thai's carrying the team." Sharon said. "We are a tPam in every aspect of the word." 

By KATI MILLER Sports W ri rer 
The Irish softball team con­tinued its impressive season start by finishing 1.his week­end's Choo Choo Classic. with a 3-1 record, boosting them to 7­2 overall. 
In game one of the Classic. Notre Dame defeated Tennessee-Marlin 8-0. 
Pitchers Angela Bessolo and Melanie Alkine combined for the first Irish no-hitter since April 1996. Their performance provided the 23rd no-hitter in Notre Dame history. 
The Irish lost game two by a score of 4-3 to Tennessee­Chattanooga. but the loss pro­duced some positive results. 
"I felt like when we lost to UTC it was a real learning experience," freshman Jarrah Myers said. "We rnally grew from that and we played really awesome the next day." 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sporrs Writer 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team dropped their 1999 season opener to Penn State 13-8 on Sunday in State College, Penn. 
The loss is a disappointment for the Irish and a setback fol­lowing their success against pre­season opponents. 
"We did not play very well." said head coach Kevin Corrigan. "We felt that we were the better team and should have won the game." 
The Irish turned the ball over 30 times during the game, which Corrigan points to as the main reason for his team's defeat. 
The game remained close throughout most of the first half. Sophomore David Ulrich opened the scoring for the Irish on a pass f'rom senior Chris Dusseau to tie the game at 1-1. Both teams went on to exchange goals throughout the first two quarters with Penn State even­

tually taking a 7-5 lead into half­
time. 

The Irish were held scoreless 
for the entire third quarter while 
Penn State added five more 
goals. At 13:41 of the fourth 
quarter Notre Dame sophomore 
Steve Bishko finally added an 
unassisted goal. 

The Irish were able to 
outscore the Nittany Lions 3-1 in 
the fourth quarter. but the 
comeback was too little, too late 
as Penn State hung on for a five­
goal victory. The loss marks the 
first time that the Irish losl to 
Penn State since 1995. 

Bishko, David Ulrich and sophomore Todd Ulrich all led the Irish in scoring with thrnc . points apiece. Senior Brad Owen 
added two goals in the contest. 

Previously, the Irish had 
played Duke and North Carolina 
in preseason competition and 
had better results. The Irish 
were able to defoat North 
Carolina, who finished last sea­son ranked 10th in the nation, 7­3. 
Senior captains Dusseau and Dave Biddison lead this year's team, which features 10 seniors on the roster. The team will look to its seniors for leadership and experience. 
Corrigan believes attackman Ned Webster and midfielder Owen arc two players that the Irish will count on this season. 
He also mentioned the defense, where the Irish started four seniors this past weekend, as a strength of the team and key Lo the season. 
The Irish competn in the Great Western Lacrosse League and play a 1 :~-game sclrndule. 
By claiming Uw leagun titln. the Irish would receive an auto­matic berth lo the NCM cham­pionships, which they have qual­ified for in six of' the last seven years. Last year's 5-7 season. marred by injuries, was the only year that they were u.nable lo qualify for postscmson play. 
The game against Liberty look two days to complete because of rain, but the Irish persevered and won 3-2. Dani Klayman scored the game-win­ning run in the bottom of the I0th inning. 
!'Jotre Dame found its final victory on Sunday against Maryland, beating the Terrapins 6-0. Myers hit her first career grand slam to cap off a six-run eighth inning. 
"I hadn't hit well the whole game," Myers said. "I was real­ly pumped up. I just wanted to get on base for once." 
The early season success by the Irish has been unexpected. 
"I think to start off the season the way we have is incredible," said sophomore pitcher Jennifer Sharon, who pitched a complete game shutout against the Terrapins. 
"We weren't expected to do much because we're so young, but our fresJ1men are really stepping up and we have some great leadership from our senior class," she said. "We have great camaraderie." 
The teamwork and confi­dence that are the focuses of the team this season seem to be achieving great results. 
"I feel personally that I'm off to a pretty good start," Sharon said. "J have a lot to learn. but 1 have a lot of confidence in the defense, so I can try some new pitches and I don't have to worry. I know my team will pick me up, and that gives me a lot of confidence." 
Notre Dame also has several freshmen who are starting to see a lot of playing time this
... 
season. The pressure of start­ing so early can be difficult, but 
Have s<>methlng ·•·. to say? Speak your mind. Use The 
Observer.::::< 

'
classifieds. 
JI 


Tue.~day, March 2, 1999 
The Observer• TODAY page 19 
SLURRED SPEECH 



FC>XTROT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Penniless 6 Frank of the Mothers of Invention 11 Pharmaceuticals overseer, for short 14 Whose 1961 record Mark McGwire beat 15 Hagar the 
Horrible's dog 16 -Lingus 11 Part 1 of a song 
parody 19 --tai 20 Funny old guy 21 Bog 22 Hilarious jokes 25 Book after Job 21 "Put a lid--I" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

lha\\enge U Fitness daDDeD are t/2-price 
For More Info. Contact:Recsports -1-6100 www.nd.edu/~recsport 
20 Song parody, 63 It's positively part 2 electric 31 Cuban coins 64 Time in history 33 "I don't believe it!" 65 Stimulates 
34 Song parody, 
part 3 40Tinyb1t 41 Tartish plums 43 Song parody, 
part 4 48 Spy's secret 49 Kvetch 50 Stalemate 52 Pleasant tune 53 Clean the hands 
before dinner 55 A Gardner 56 End of the song 
parody 61 Singer Shannon 62 Jack of "The 
Great Dictator" 66 Attach a patch 
DOWN 
1 Maker of the 5-Series 2"Yay!" 3 Digit 4Jamaica's capital 
5 "Terminal Bliss" actress Chandler 
6 A Gabor 7 Upfront amount 8 Equal 9 Start with school 
10 Pac.'s counterpart 11 Zoological classification 12 "Stars above!" 
13 Bold, impatient type, astrologically 
18 Ginseng, e.g. 21 West of 
Hollywood 22 Republican 23Oncemore 24 Enthusiastic 
reply in Mexico 2sGasp 26 Snooty types 29 Attire at fraternity 
blasts 30 "Be still!" 
OWN 
f_r-----,-,, 
n" 

32 Burlesque bits 46 Snake sounds 56 Pull along 35 After-bath cover 47 Jewish youth 57 "That'll show org. 'em!"
36 Resident Suffix 49 Forest clearing 58 It's one thing
37 1931 convictee 51 Big cats after another 38 Talks amorously 53 Boat follower 59 Stir39 Shoes 
introduced by the United States Rubber 
co. Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 42 Match in poker are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900·420-5656 (95~ per minute). 
43 Golf club Annual subscriptions are available for the 44 "How luxurious!" best of Sunday crosswords from the last 45 Screwball 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
DAN SULLIVAN 
BILL AMEND 
Scon ADAMS 

l!egi~tration date~ 
Yoga &Tai Chi ~ today, 3/2, l!~l!C ~ 


Knockout Workout & 
Relaxation Training 
3/ 16, ,:30am, l!~l!C 
HOROSCOPE 
EUGENIA LAST 

CELEBRmEs BORN ON THIS 
DA\': Jon Bon Jo,•i, Lou Reed, Laraine 
Newman, Al Waxm.m, Gabriele Tar­
yuini, Doc Watson, Tom Wolf~. 
Mikhail Gorbache>; Desi Arnaz, Dr. 
Seuss, Jennifer Jones 

H•ppy Birthday: Don't put addi­
tional str~ss on )'ourself this year, 
Concentrate on the things that really 
1n.,an a lot to you and you will be suc­
cessful. Spread yourself loo thin and 
you will lose perspedive o( the direc· 
tion you really want to follow. You 
can make personal changes to your­
self this year that are sure to attract 
attention. \'our nwnbers: 5, 12, 28, 33, 
40, 44 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): You 
will be able to work WPI! wilh col­
!eagu<'S. You can finish all those 
undone proj(>cts and begin some new 
ones if you work quickly and effi­
ciently. Relati,)llships may develop 
tl·cou~h work 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20,: 
To.la)' w,11 he he.:ti,. Keer mo\'ing 
and ;·ou wm fit e\·,_,~,~hinr, in and ft.'1.."'I 
s~ti!-t'ied .1t tlw ('!li.1 L,f tl1," d,,,·. P,,,;. 
sldllJt"-' 1.,.'ll\..Pu·1t~l~ i::.::1 bL· y,,~m 1i yuu 
are willing to 11ct nn your instinct.::i. 
00000 
GEMINI (Ma,· 21-Jun~ 20,: Prol~ len1s with roo~mates can be ex• pected. Dun't gel lakPn for granled. Real estate investmPnts will be prnl­itable. Y,,u can buy pn>duds for your home, but don't go o,·er rour budget. 
00 
CANCER (Jun~ 21-July 22): Romance will come looking for you, Be receptive to the advances made by others. Friends or relalives mar want to set you up with someone. The time is rii;hl 1,, gel ,,n with l""" life.0000 
LEO (Julv 23-Aug. i21, You mar want to cut bJcl. a little wlwn ii comes to yuur J11"'r!-Onal 0,·crhenG. Try to negotj,1tc.' rour fin;t'ndaJ po~itiun 
¦ OF INTEREST 

Continuing the Latin American Film Series, ''La Tigra" {Tho Tigress) will be shown at 7 p.m. in the H13sburgh Center auditorium. "La Tigra" was produced in Ecuador in 1990. 
t);N 

Jennifer Stewart, graduate student in peace studies 
. ~·ill present "Framing Peace Process Benchmarks for Creating Sustainable Outcomes in Intt1rnational Conflicts," at 4:15 p.m. in C-103 of' the Heshurgh C1mter for International Studies. 
Dennis McNamara, United Nations Commission for 
C
Hefugees will present. "Human Hights and the Protection of Ref'uge1-1s,'' at 12:30 p.m., Wednesday, in 0 103 of the Hcsburgh Center for International Studies. 
Help celebrate a 
friend's birthday 
with an ad in The 
Observer. 
Call 1-6900 for rates 
and info. 
and consolidate your d.-bts. \'ou may want to pick up an extra job. 000 
V!RCO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You are usuolly logical, but not so today. Yuu will b11 quite flippant and you should £or,-e yourself h> g,•t physical and use up some of ~,at ex,-ess ener­gy you've got. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 221: It's time to qu;-s1ion rour personal situation. Things have not been too favorable lately, and it is time for you to make some major decisions. Examine your legal rights before going any further . 
000 
SCORPlO (Oct. 23-Nov. :tl}: Someone you befriend al a meeting will be romantically interested in you. You can make a difference if you fight for your riiihts and if you are wiUing to speak out for those k-ss apt to.0000 
SAGllTARIUS (No,·. 22-Dec. 21): You can get ahe.,d when ii comes to :r0ur cart..~r oh~~vcs. How~ver, your p1..•r~cnal affairs ar-.:> in sh.atnbles. Don't ll..'t \'nLil' r-1tl\1tiim1J:: ~t.1nd in the v,:ay of 't'PLi1· \\"•l!'l r~rf.inr,,'llli._"t.1. 00 
CAl'l{l•:01:·, 1Da. :::-1,m. J<I: Y0u will lo~ m contact with people who w,11 spMk ~,,n1e pretty good idt"dS ln you_ \'nu can in,·~t in joint ,·enturcs b,,t make sure that you aren't th,• only <'ne putting in cash. 
00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-F•b. 18): Change,; with regard to co-workers are likely. D,.lll't be too quick to judge the attributes •nd down/ans o/ others. You may b,, surprised when you take a second tt,ok al someone's talents. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-M.orch 20): Emo­tional fh,clu~linn <~n b,, e>tJJ"Ctcd. Mak.-love Mt war. You can get closer to the one ynu love or pursue new compani,mship in group endeavors. D,m't mak~ pmmoses you can't keep 
000 
..... 

-



¦ The House that ¦ The women's softball Ruth Built could soon team continued its win­have a new name. ning streak over the 
weekend.
PORTS 
p. 18 

O 
P· 12 THE 
page 20 BSERVER Tuesday, March 2, 1999 

Fencers capture team, four individual titles 
Team wins eighth straight Midwest Championship 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Spons W rircr 
Another year, another Midwest Conference champi­onship, another trophy for the fencing team·s cabinet. 
Winning the Midwest title is nothing nnw for the· Irish. Since joining the conference in 1992. I.he Irish haw' ,.,011 eight straight combined teamed titles. 
The men's team captured the title in all three weapons: sahre, epee and f'oil. Highlighted by a 5-0 victory over Ohio State in foil, tho men outscored their opponents 15-4 in the finals. 
The foil tt>am was the most impressive on tho day. Before dominating the Buckeyes in the finals. the foil tPam had already rolled through its pool. winning all four bout-; 5-1. 
Captain Stephami Auriol who posted an undefeated six-win day led the Irish. Freshman Steve Mautone followed an impressive 16-win weekend at Lawrence last weekend with a 9-1 record on Saturday.
-"Steve Mautone fenced really well," Auriol said. "I wasn't sur­prised but I was happy with how well he fenc1od." The sabre team never reet~ived a strong challenge from any team all weekend. The Irish blanked :\1ichigan State and 
see TEAM / page 17 


Junior All-American and 1997 epee National Champion Magda Krol went 7-1 in important matches against Ohio State and Northwestern over the weekend. She also placed second in the individual tournament. 

Notre Dame upsets Rutgers, 68-61 
By BRIAN KESSLER _Assistant Spores Editor 
PISCATAWAY, NJ. 

With center Ruth Riley on the bench because of foul trouble and point guard ''Jiele Ivey out with a sprained knee, the eighth­ranked women's basketball team needed a spark in last night's Big East semifinal game with seventh-ranked Rutgers. 
They got it from -who else -senior Sheila McMillen. 
McMillen. who tied the school record for games played last night. drained a huge three­pointer with 4:22 left in thl' game to put the Irish in front by double digits and propel third­seednd Notre Damii to a 68-61 victory over St\cond-scedcd Hutgers. 
"That was a hug<' thren." said head coach Muffct McGraw. "I think that throe that she hit was wry, Vl'ry big for us and certain­ly not unexpected, f.mcausc she's done that for us all year long." 
~cl\1illcn got the Irish off to a quick start earlier in the game when she connected on thn)I' shots from downtown to give the Irish a l0-2 advantagP-. 
Rutgers, however, stormed back with a 11-0 run of its own, capped by a three-pointer by Tomora Young. 
But McMillen would have the answer once again, as she nailed another trey and put Notre Dame out in front, 17-15. 
"It was a game of runs," said McGraw. "I think you have to withstand what they're doing and then come back with your own, because you're not going to shoot the ball well all the time and they weren't going to shoot as poorly as they did in the beginning of the game. I just th ink we weren't going to be denied today." 
There was no denying Notre Damp late in the first hair. Thr, Irish jumped out to a 15-point halftime lead after thev closed the first 20 minutes on a 16-2 run. Huth Hiley scored eight ol' her 10 points during that run. At onr) point, Notre Dame held Hutgors scoreless for over five minutes. 
"I think we played extremely well defensively," said McGraw. "We put in the trianglf' and two last time we played Rutgers and it was pretty successful. Tonight, wn put Niele Ivey at the point of 
the triangle and l thought Sheila McMillen did a great job on Young. It was pretty effective." 
The Irish completely dominat­ed the first half, shooting 64 per­cent from downtown and out­rebounding the Scarlet Knights, 19-7. 
"I didn't expect us to execute to perfection in the first half like we did," said McGraw, whose team shot 58 percent from the field in the first half. "I was pleased with the shots we were getting and more importantly, that we made a lot of them. So I was really pleased with the way we ran our offense." 
The second hall', however, would be a different storv. The Irish built their lead to as· manv as 20 points early on, as Rutgers scored just four points cJVer a nine-minute stretch going back to the first half. 
But with defensive player of the year Riley on the bench with foul trouble and lvr,y sidelined with a knee injury. the Scarlet Knights slowly cut into the Irish lead. Notre Dame shot just 24 percl'nt in the second half and were held scornless l'or a six 
see B-BALL/page 16 
Gaither, Mustilli, Szelle, and Walsh all win titles 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports \X'rircr 
Friends becanrn f'ocs on Sunda) as the Midwest Conference Individual Championships fnaturPd Irish ttiammatl's f'aring olT l'or tho title in thrnc finals. 
In tho women's epeP final, senior All-Amoric:an captain Nirole Mustilli !'aced 1997 Ppee national champion and junior teammate Magda Krol. 
Mustilli, in hor last home bout, Vias toti much f'or Krol and captured the title 15-8. 
"In my la~.• horn<; r~eN_. la~t <,>f my earner, Mustillt s,ud. Its nice to go out with a win." DospitP tlw loss. Krol feds she is foncing ev1!n lwttPr than whnn she won tlrn national championship in IIJlJ7. "I feel in tlw best shape that I have in tlrn past two years," slw said. "Evr\n better than 1997. I just need to keep my intensity up heading into the NCAJ\s." Ifosidcs Krol and Mustilli. tlw rnst of tlrn epce team also 1wr­l"orrrn~d verv wdl. Freshman Christin<' Hta took 11th whilP senior Mirlrnllc 
Marafino placnd 13th. Sophomores KierstPn Fergus1'.n and Kim DeMaio finished 14th and 25th, respm:tivdy. 
The wom1'n's foil final foa­
see INDIVIDUAL I page l 7 

ByANTHONY BIANCO 
... A$$\stant Sport$ Editor 

PISCATAWAY, N.J. 
It wasn't Rutgers' main focus Monday night. and it sure will not be on Connecticut's mind tonight. 
'· But somewhere between the two nights at the Big East tournament, Irish point guard Niole lvey left a huge impr~ssjon on the opposition. "We didn't· expect Ivey to ·shoot the ball as well as she did," said Rutgers' coach C. Vivian Stringer after Ivey racked up J4 points in the first half of Monday night's game to lead the Irish to a 15-point halftime lead. "We . didri't address [her shooting] the way we should have." Coupled with her play in Sunday night's 83a53 win over Villanova ---leading all scurers with 19on perfect 5­of-5 shooting -Ivey was 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 
Irish lose Ivey to sprained knee 
headed to tournament per­fection. 
"She was well on her way to having just a spectacular game and I think she was out to prove who the best point guard in the conference was," said coach Muffet McGraw after Monday's game. "And I think she proved that today." 
Ivey certainly played to prove herself, even to the point of taking one for the team. In the second half against Rutgnrs, she lost her chance to play in the tourna­ment finals against Connecticut. Taking a d1~l'en­sive rebound up court, Ivey was fouled by Shawnetta Stewart in a play that knocked the ball from Ivey's control. Seeing Danielle Green to her side, Ivey dove to rndirect the ball to hflr and wound up on the court with 
see IRISH/ page 16 
at Michigan Stare NCAA Track and Field 
rv.·,, 

I'.,_;:"..:,::::•' Wednesday, 3 p.m. ~ Championships Big East Tournament
SPORTS 
' 

Friday-Saturday M· New York, N.Y.
ATA 
Wednes<lay-Sarur<lay,
w_., 

at Northwestern TBA
at Miami
I
~1.:.:::::;:;r•.I Wednesday, 3 p.m. ~ Friday, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 











