
Leg up on the competition 
At the break of dawn 
friday night, junior Afeotis Erikson and the 
Friday
Irish fans get an early start on game days with 
Irish women's soccer team takes 
tailgate parties. Scene explores the tradition. 
on West Virginia. 
Scene . page 18 
OCTOBER 8,
Sports . page 34 
1999 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Danie and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO. 32 
Taking a handle on life I 
By JOSHUA BOURGEIOS 
A~sisrant News Editor 
In the fall of 1998, Libby Balbort sat in a science class and listened to the professor lecture on homeostasis and why humans need to main­tain a stable blood sugar level. She learned that an unstable blood sugar level can kill brain cells. 
Libby took what the profes­sor said seriously and began to worry. All of a sudden. in a room full of Notre Dame pre­med students like herself, she felt alone. 
"I was the only person wor­rying about it in that class," · the Notre Dame senior said 
as she retold the story. Libby has to monitor her blood sugar level every day. 
The summer before she took that science class. while working in the west bank of Israel with a medical health team, Libby learned she has type one diabetes.. The condi­tion results when the pan­creas cannot make enough insulin -the sugar that pro­duces energy so that the body can perform its func­tions. 
In high school, Mike Garofola, a three-sport varsi­ty athlete, learned he has diabetes the day after he enjoyed his favorite drink, a large Slurpie, in celebration of pitching a one-hitter. 
"It was rough. I went 16 years with an impeccable health record, and then at the age of 16, I got knocked down," Mike said. "I didn't know what it was. I was scared." 
Dan Adams has a different story. At age 5, he found out that he has diabetes. At such a young age, learning of his condition did not stir the same emotions as Libby and Mike experienced. 
"When you're a little kid, you just do it [take a shot of insulin]," Dan said. "I never questioned anything. Every 
see DIABETES/page 8 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
McMullen admits true identity 
By TIM LOGAN News Editor 
For the last 20 years. 'William Nicholas McMullen has been living an odd sort of double life. 
This week, it caught up to him. 
For more than two decades, McMullen, an assistant high school football coach in southeastern Massachusetts, has been passing him­self off as Nick Eddy, an All-American tailback at Notre Dame during the 1966 national championship season. 
Now the man who said he was Nick Eddy is neither coaching nor imper­sonating the tailback. His deception came to an end last week when the real Nick Eddy, living in Modesto, Calif., heard about McMullen and called the New Bedford Standard­Times. 
After the newspaper contacted McMullen Saturday, he confessed the whole tale. 
"All hell broke loose," McMullen said in a phone interview Thursday. "At first I was stunned and I wanted to deny it." 
He soon admitted to the fabrications, though. and brought his story to light. 
It began in more than 20 years ago when he was applying for a factory job in New Bedford. McMullen, who had never attended college, was interview­ing in an office stocked with Notre Dame memorabilia and hoped to impress his prospective employer. He was trained for the job and badly need­ed the money, he said. 
"Foolishly, I threw in that I was a graduate of Notre Dame," said McMullen. At the time, he did not men­tion playing football for the Irish. 
The factory hired McMullen, but after several weeks his boss approached him in the plant, saying that he had looked through the University's alumni directory but didn't see his new employee· listed. Why wasn't he in the book? 
McMullen's response to this question was the start of his problems. 
"Very quickly it came off -Nick Eddy -and that was it," he said. He explained the disparity by saying that 
see EDDY/page 6 


Saint Mary's begins Master Plan finance proposal 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
Although the Campus Master Plan kicks off its first two renovation projects this summer, Saint Mary's has not established a formal fundrais­ing campaign for the proposal. 
The Board of Trustees 
cleared $2 million for four ini­tial projects, including the summertime Regina and Madeleva renovations. The funds also cover initial con­struction for the \Velcome Center, scheduled for con­struction in the fall of 2000, and reconstruction of the Noble Family Dining Hall/Student Center. 
Bonds which the College 
currently owns will finance summer renovations. This will allow projects to get under­way quickly, said Keith Dennis, vice president for finance and administration. 
A formal fundraising plan, however, is still in tho early stages of development, said Richard Russell, vice presi­dent for college relations. 
"We are very much in the 
get-ready kind of mode," Russell said. "\Ve are getting organization al mate rials together and getting a handle on the scope of the project." 
The fundraising campaign, which has no estimated start date, targets alumnae and key constituencies for the College. 
College Relations has begun contacting potential donors and has secured three major 
commitments for the Campus Master Plan. Those commit­ments will be announced at this week's Board of Trustees meeting. 
"While we 're not in cam­paign mode, we are finding individuals who are interested and looking at things project by project." Russell said. 
see FINANCE/page 6 


Friday, October 8, 1999
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 

INSIDE COLUMN 


SMC Pride 
There hasn't been much interest on this side of 
U.S. 33 this past week as Saint Mary's College has 
been celebrating Saint Mary's Pride Week. Well, fellow Dumers. you should be interested. I've heard the arguments time and time again. 

Notre Dame's enrollment is about 10,000. Saint Mary's has an enrollment of about 1,500. Notre Dame fields offers from the Big Ten. Saint Mary's fields offers from the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association. Notre Dame is a national school. Saint Mary's is a regional school. Notre Dame plays football. Saint Mary's, well, it doesn't have that option. 
What can Saint Mary's offer Notre Dame? 
For starters, Saint Mary's offers academic opportuni­ties that Notre Dame doesn't. Notre Dame studenl'i have 
Laura Petelle 
Assistant Managing Editor 
.. the opportunity to take classes in education, com­munication, dance and nursing. Saint Mary's also has wonderful facilities that are open to Notre Dame students. Saint Mary's boasts the Moreau Center fur the Arts, the only truly decent performance space on the two cam­puses. For the religious, Saint Mary's also has the bf'autiful Church of Our Lady of Loretto. You might say, Saint Mary's students can take advantage of similar opportunities at Notre Dame, taking Notre Dame classes and using Notre Dame facilities, but Saint Mary's offers more than just classes and facilities to Notre Dame students. Saint Mary's provides us with an excellent vision of open administration and collaborative decision-making that is lacking at Notre Dame. In setting up the Campus Master Plan, Saint Mary's took care at every turn to include studenl5 in the decision~making process that will define the future of the College. There aren't many schools that would survey students about renovations and additions and then scrap the first plan when stu­dents didn't like it. Marilou Eldred, the president of the College, is much more accessible to students than her coun­terpart at Notre Dame. She has an open-door pol­icy that allows any student to walk into her oflice at any time. She is often seen around campus. Saint Mary's also offers us a vision ofwomen as leaders that is hard to see at Notre Dame. Notre Dame has yet to have a woman as student body president. Campus Ministry at Notre Dame is headed by a man. The position of president of the University is not open to women. At Saint Mary's, all these positions are filled by women. Nancy Midden provides dynamic leader­ship for the student body. Judith F'ean heads up Campus Ministry. And Eldred is an inspiring leader and an admirable woman who should serve as a role model not just for the women of Saint Mary's but for the women of Notre Dame as well. You can choose to listen to the stereotypes if you want, but you're missing out on some fantas­tic women and wonderful opportunities to be found at Saint Mary's College. My experience at Notre Dame would have been much, much poorer without my friends from Saint Mary's. So as Saint Mary's concludes iti;; week-long cele­bration of pride, Notre Dame students should take this opportunity to appreciate all that Saint Mary's does for them. Women of Saint Mary's College, I commend you for your contributions to both campuses. Your pride in yourselves and your College is well­deserved. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column a~e those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Noreen Gillespie  Mike Vanegas  
Kate Steer  Graphics  
Kyle Andrews  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Production  
Noah Amsradter  Kerry Smith  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Dustin Ferrell  Mary Campos  

The Ob,crv,:r (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday excel'( during exam and vacation ~riods. The: Observer is a mcml,c,r of1hc A,M.>Ciatcd Press. All rq,roduction rights are resc:rvcd. 
THIS WEE_K IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Wednesday, Oct. 8, ·1969 
Saint Mary's Student Assembly accepted a constitu­tion for a new organization, the Association of Black Collegiate \Vomen of SMC. The purpose of this group was to establish a means through which black stu­dents at SMC can take a more active part in academ­
ic. cultural and social life on campus. It also hop,~d to improve communications among students of all races. 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Thursday, Oct. 5, 1972 
A fire broke out on the seventh floor of Grace Hesidence Ilall at approximately 1 :30 p.m. The fire was apparently caused when an ashtray was emptied into a container on a laundry cart and left unattended. Most of the 550 residents of the hall were at classes. and no injuries were reported. One student who was showering at the time of the fire did not leave the building because he said he figured the flames couldn't hurt him in the water. 
Compiled from U.Wire reports 
MSU fans vandalize Michigan campus 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
The week that many diehard foot­ball fans have been waiting for is finally here. 
There is no need to mark the occasion, a quick glance at the University of Michigan Diag is a vivid reminder of the 101-year rival­ry between the Wolverines and Spartans. 
It all began Oct. 12, 1898 when the Wolverines beat the Spartans, 39-0. More than a century later. the tension between blue and green is in high gear as the annual Michigan vs. Michigan State approaches. Both teams will head into this year's con­test with 5-0 records -the last time both teams met with undefeated records was in 1961. 
This is "a great interstate rivalry," said Assistant Athletic Director for. Media Relations Bruce Madej. He 

added that the game is "for brag­ging rights, it has been sold out since the early '50s. 
"Both teams have been playing great and these kids know each other, which adds a lot to the game," he said. 
Although kickoff doesn't take place until noon on Saturday, fans of both sides have already started their battle off the field. 
According to Department of Public 
Bomb threats alert educators 
AMES. Iowa 
After five bomb threats in the Des Moines public schools last week, local school districts are trying their best to prepare for similar situations. "We all have a heightened sense of security and awareness from last year's experiences [in Ames]," said Cindy Yellick, prin­cipal of Mitchell Elementary School. Ames High received several bomb threats near the end of the spring semester. Lori Morrissey, Story County Emergency Management c9ordinator, emphasized the need to prepare for all hazards. About 40 people from Story County have participated in a safety program sponsored by the Federal Emergency Management Agency dealing with multiple hazards schools may encounter. Morrissey said they have supported the program for about two years. Morrissey's job deals with any type of violence that may affect schools. "We work very strongly with all emergency planning aspects," she said. "\,Ve try to make available to schools various videos dealing with the different top­ics." Nevada Community Schools also have taken numerous precautions. 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
_  
H  L  
Friday  72  53  
Saturday Sunday  70 68  54 53  
Monday 62 _i ) Tues)day /~l~ 67 svJ'-.J'•"''"' '-··,~··..,'\.;.:·; ·..  47 42  
.,/  ·'  

4,~_r!;(dA,~Q l) ~ ~ 
~rs T-storms Rm Flume$ Snow Ice Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy 
y,.~I/IdPNu Grapha/'#1 
Safety reports, between 7:15 and 8 Tuesday morning the "M" in the center of the Diag was painted green, the north side of the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library was spray painted with a 4 foot by 10 foot "M GO BLOW" inscription and many garbage cans in the area were spray painted with green Ss. 
A University grounds crew mem­ber uses a power hose to clean graf­fiti that was placed on the Diag between 7:15 a.m. and 8 a.in. Tuesday. according to Department of Public Safety reports. 
"It reflects all of the Michigan State quality, it should be taken out on the field," MSU sophomore Ron Keoleian said. 
MSU first-year student Megan Flynn said the vandalism is "awful. Destroying what someone else val­ues is not right." 
Aldrin pushes Mars landing at MIT 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. 
As part of the MIT/Harvard Mars Week program, Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin spoke Saturday on the feasibility of launching a manned Mars mission in the near future. Aldrin, the lunar module pilot for Apollo 11 astronauts and the second man to walk on the moon. focused on the methodology of putting men on Mars. He offered a number of solutions concerning the typt}S of propulsion systems and launch windows that could be exploited, and cited a goal of arriving on Mars by 2014. Aldrin told many anecdotes, focusing on the dif­ferences between the space program of the 1960s and today. A major example he used was the contrast between disasters and the amount of time it took to return to space following each disaster. After the Apollo fire, NASA launched again within a year. After the 1986 Challenger explosion, NASA waited three years before putting another shuttle into orbit. The conclusion he drew from this example was that the government would never again support the space pro­gram as it once did. Instead, Aldrin presented "space hotels" as a solution to the funding problem. 


NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 8. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

.......... .&...A. 
•e •
C 1999 AccuWeether. Inc:. COI.D WARM STATIONARY 
0 

High Low Shower• Ratn T..lorm• Fluniff Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via A:uocHt._,Pl'ftS.s 
Atlanta  72  60  Las Vegas  87  61  Portland  66  53  
Baltimore  67  47  Memphis  73  63  Sacramento  72  53  
Boston  60  37  Milwaukee  72  52  St. Louis  71  58  
Chicago  74  S4  New York  64  55  Tampa  88  72  
Houston  92  67  Philadelphia  66  51  Wash DC  68  38  


, 
Friday, October 8, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


DeOlivera inspires personal, campus activism 
. East Timor native bears mem~ry of death 
By JOHN HUSTON News Wrirer 
Two wePks ago, Ezequiel DnOlivPira found out that his sistPr', a nine-months-preg­nant East TimorPSP woman. \Vas missing. lier husband had alrnady bi'en found 
dPad. 
"That's a consnqucnce of the strugg!()," he said. 
Dc0livPira, 28, was born in East Timor and lived tlwrn until 1996, when concern for his own safi•tv forcPd him to Ile(' to Engla:nd. 11(1 visited campus to s1wak this W('ek. 
SincP he was 12 years old, lw has lwnn involvcd with artivism in opposition to Indonesian military control of East Timor. lie visited Notre Dame Thursday night to speak about his <'Xperi­P nces in East Timor and hopefully raise support for the East TimoresP cause. 
l)p()liwira was 4 vnars old whPn Indonesia usPd force to ovcrtakti East Timor. IIn, his fath,;r, his mother and sevPn siblings fled to the moun­tains, along with thousands of others, in order to avoid the violence. 
In 1979, he and his family were forced to separate from his fatlwr. They surrendf'rnd to the Indonesian military and returned to their home­land. 
DeOJiveira's mother was tortured daily, he said. A few years later, his mother and oldest sister were sent to a prison island. Atauro. Dc0liveira and his remaining siblings staynd with their aunt. 
It is not common. he says, for East Timorese children to be raised by both parents. The Indonesian armies often killed fathers, leaving vil­lages full of widows. 
When De0liveira was 18, his 12-year-old sist<'r died of starvation. 
This is also common, he said. 
WhPn he was younger h(' and his friends would play near Indonesian military bases to try to gather attempt to draw attention while the world's eye was briefly focused on the small nation. 
Unfortunately, it did not work as well as they had planned. 
De0liveira also helped organize an attention-getting demonstration in November 1991. Ile, his colleagues and supporters of their cause gathered in a church in Santa Cruz, Dili. 
When the large crowd moved to a nearby cemetery to continue the peaceful protest, the Indonesian army fired on them, killing more than 100, including a New Zealander and two Americans. A television jour­nalist caught the attack on videotape, \vhich has widely circulated and became the world's first real 
information "When I came to England p e a k that would and the United States I i n t o 
lrnlp the E a s t
thought. ·we·re supposed
E a s t Timor's 
Timorese to live as free as this."' stuggle cause. in 16 As he years.
Ezequiel De Oliveira 
bPcame Now
East Timor activist
older. he that the b e g a n United activist Nations work. has sent 
In 1989, peacn­when the Pope John Paul II keeping forces into East visited East Timur, a pre­Timor, the situation has dominantly Catholic country, worsened but, De0liveira De0liveira and fellow said. victory is closer at demonstrators organized an hand. There are less food and medical supplies and militias are stepping up the violence to a new level, but what was needed all along ­outside attention -has finally been attained, De0liviera said. 
Though his history is filled with tragedy, DeOliveira's optimism for peace in East Timor is unrelenting. lie attributes his dedication to the past three years which he spent in England. 
"When I came to England and the United States I thought, 'We're supposed to live as free as this,' " he said. 'Tm quite sure that in the future, by working with peo­ple who love peace, freedom and justice, people in East Timor can live like human bt?ings. 
"We have commitment and courage," Deoliveira said. 
"This is a time for us to be . happy," he said. They have lost thousands of people, but through U.N. support, they will hopefully once again be free on their homeland sometime in the future. "That is our happiness." 
Peace is not a sure thing, by any means. "It's still very difficult, but I hope peace will come," he said. 
Despite an unthinkable 
. past. he still has a dream. 'Td like to go back to my country. That's where my roots are." 
Deoliveira feels his dream will someday be realized. 
. ND freshman to begin East Timor campus action group 
By JOHN HUSTON News Writer 
Jim Madden, a Notre Dame freshman, is becoming an activist in a different way. 
He is in the process of establishing a chap­ter of the East Timor Action at Notre Dame (ETAN at ND). 
"I heard about East Timor about two and a half years ago," Madden said. "I was just really outraged -the level of genocide and the apathy through the rest of the world to let it happen ... I felt compelled to start something." 
Last spring, Madden invited East Timor native Ezequiel Deoliveira to his high school in Massachusetts. Madden also worked with Massachusetts congressman James McGovern to increase awareness of the situa­tion in East Timor. 
"He was really supportive of our efforts back in Massachusetts," Madden said. McGovern personally visited Timor and was active in the House of Representatives with the issue. 
Madden hopes to work similarly through the ETAN at ND group with Indiana Congressman Tim Roemer. The group also wants to raise money for missionary work in East Timor. 
"Personally I just feel obligated to do this,'' Madden said. Creating that sense of obliga­tion to work for peace and freedom is exactly De0liveira's objective. 
Deoliveira said that he hopes the situation in East Timor will be resolved within the next three years, but whether or not that is a real­istic hope is unknown. 



The Observer. 
It's where you get your news. 
'"KE S"CK INS 
Ul000$!! 
on Sunday, October 10 
at5Plvl 
in front of£.emans 
Singing1 Dancing, and Bonfire Celebrate Wonten 
sponsorect by C,£!Y<E e1nd ]eminist Collective 
Please recycle The Observer. 

page 4 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 8, 1999 


THE FOLLOWING AUTHORS WILL BE APPEARING AT 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE: 
On Friday, October 8, Father Malloy will be signing copies of Monk's Reflections from 4:00 pm to 6:00 pm. 
Michael Steele will be signing copies of his book, Knute Rockne, on Friday, October 8 from 11 :00 am to 1 :00 pm and also on Saturday, October 9 from 
10:30 am to 1 :00 pm. 
Dick Vitale will have an autographing ses­sion on Friday,. October 8 from 
2:00 pin to 4:00 pm. 
Pianist Christian Parilla will be perform­ing in the bookstore at the following times: Fri., Oct. 8 6:00 pm to 9:00 pm Sat., Oct. 9 7:00 pm to 10:00 pm Sun., Oct. 10 11 :00 am to 1:00 pm 
Enjoy the music of pianist Joe Fremeau on.iSaturday, Qctoher 9 from 10:00 am to t;.00 pm. · · · 
On Saturday, October 9, Congressman Peter King will be signing copies of his book, Terrible Beaury, from 10:30 am to 
12:00 pm. 
John Phillip $antos will be signing copies 
ofPlaces Left Unfinished at the Time of Creation on Saturday, October 9 from 
12:00 prri to 1:00 pm. 
Notre Dame acappella group The Under­tones, will perform in the bookstore lobby beginning one hour after the game. 
HAMMES  
NOTRE DAME BOOKS'IORE  FOOTBALL WEEKEND HOURS Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore: Varsity Shop (in the Joyce Center) Friday 9:00 am -10:00 pm Friday 9:00 am • 5:00 pm Saturday 8:00 am ­l 0:00 pm Saturday 8:00 a1n -7:00 pm  
IN  THE  ECK  CENTER  Sunday  9:00 am ­10:00 pm  Sunday  l 0:00 am -2:00 pm  
phone: 631-6316  • www.ndbookstore.com  


Friday, October 8, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
14 die in Nigerian stampede 
ABUJA 
A Christian <'rusadc in a midvv·estern Nig1!rian tm-vn has continued to draw crowds dPspitc Ow deaths of 14 people who were caught in a crush to touch a German evangeli­cal preachPr, news reports said Thursday. About half a million people filled a Benin City sports field hours before tlrn arrival Tuesday of charismatic preacher Heinhard Bonnkc for a five-day "Great Gospel Campaign," the Benin City Observer newspaper reported. Wlwn Bonnke entered the venun, the crowd surg1'd forward in a clamor to touch him. The 14 victims suffocatPd to death in the crush. a doctor at tlw city hospital said. Despite the dt•aths. another 500,000 people turned out W,!dnnsday and tlw crusade continued with tight<•r s1•curity in place. Edo statP radio reported. Bonnke. howev,~r. did not attend. 
Strike paralyzes life in Nepal 
KATMANDU 
Maoist rnbels in Nepal injured 11 people in attacks during a general strike they called on Thursday to shut down busirn~sscs across the llimalayim kingdom. Police dPtaincd 700 peo­ple suspectPd of supporting the guerrillas, who have been demanding an mid to constitu­tional monarchy in tlw llimalayan state and pulic11 repression against them. Four police­men on foot patrol were injured in an explo­sion in Gorkha, about 75 miles northwest of the capital. Katmandu. The rebels also hurled crude bombs. at two buses that defied the strike. Five passengers were injured when a petrol bomb was tossed into a bus at Chitwan, 
125 miles southwest of Katmandu. A driver and an assistant were also injured in another blast in Butwal, 150 mih~s west of Katmandu. ThP strike protested the alleged killing last month by police or Suresh Wagle. one of" the rebels' top leaders. 
Germans offers settlement to laborers 
\NASIIINGTON 
Germany offered on Thursday to pay $3.3 billion to former slave laborers and other vic­tims of the Nazi regime. calling the figure "a considerable amount" given the country's budget problrims. Survivors said they'd tight for morn.. "It's an insult," Rudy Kennedy of London. whose mother, sister and father were killed in the llolocaust. said outside the State Department. "Tlrn world will judge the moral­ity of this of'for and ... will condemn it," said ~1PI \,Veiss, an attorney for some survivors. Thursday's offer came on the closing day of a multinational meeting aimed at working out compensation for an estimated 1 million to 
2.4 million people who worked in forced or slavP labor camps to the benefit of Adolf Hitler's war machine -as well as a number of other types of victims of the Nazi period. 


II./ iiittdhWoJII 
Dow 
AMEX; 784.36
]ONES 
-3.07 Nasdaq:
10537.05 
2860.70 

-5 1.29 
I !!:rll'~::,i} 
(;[l)ML C:Hllss1,,: 
\IC! \\'ORI HCO\.f 1'­llfl.L C\l',,!l'l!'I l·R 
HMC \OHW,\R[ I', 
YAIIOO 1'-1' ,\.IA,\ZO\.CO\f 1'-1' 
.\\H:NICA 0\1.1:-,,;E 
\1ll .kO\llFf U lRI' 1:-,,;n1 CORI' QWEST CO\l\HJ:'l:ICA 
+3.49 
NYSE: 
606.61 
-3.29 S&P 500: 1317.64 
Composite
-7.76 
Volume: 1,081,922,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
11!1':il ll  'bi l ll l~!il  1 !,Il:S  rBlrl  
1:tlLX WCOM  +12.•-15 +6,88  • l.o'!!MI •4 87\0  ~4.{MIH.oo  
!lEl,1.  +2.46  + 1.()(,75  .11.00  
ll~CS  -9.ll  -1, .!KDO  25.00  
Yll()O  +X.25  +14.S<XI  24.IK)  
A\1Zt,;  +:..</!  •.Ul725  2400  
,\01.  -(Ul:I  -I.IXMXI  24.00  
\1\IT1,rc,iwsr  +0.07 -1.71 +0.19  +O.Ot>ZS -U175 •11.0o.'>o  2.l.lXl 17.lMl lb.Oil  

BRAZIL 

Associated Press 
BRASILIA 
Amid fireworks and Brazilian flags, more than 1,000 demonstrators marched into Brazil's capi­tal Thursday, ending a 1,000-mile trek to protest the government's austerity measures designed to appease the International Monetary Fund. 
To cries of "IMF get out," demonstrating landless farmers, unionists and Indians circled the head­quarters of the Central 
Bank, where IMF field offices are located. 
The demonstrators also protested what they said was President Fernando Henrique Cardoso's lack of concern with the country's poor. 
"Enough of FHC" declared some of the demonstrators' placards and banners. 
The 1,100 participants in the "Peoples March for Brazil" left Rio de Janeiro July 26 to denounce an economic recession and unemployment. 
After camping on the out­skirts of the city Wednesday night. they went to the Central Bank where they were joined by thousands of other protest­ers. Organizers said some 10,000 people participated in the demonstration. 
Some demonstrators broke through the police cordon in an attempt to enter the building, but were restrained by com­panions. 
Joao Pedro Stedile, of the Movement of Landless Hural Workers, said: "Brazil must stop being subservient to the IMF and concern itself more with the misery of its people," said Senator Eduardo Suplicy, of the opposition leftist Workers Party. 
The opposition claims that the IMF conditions its help on the implementation of severe fiscal measu{'.es that worsen social condi­tions. 
The IMF and other international financial organizations provided Brazil a $41. 5 billion bailout loan last year, but required that the govern­ment cut social area pro­grams and increased taxes. 
ENGLAND 
Tories strengthen stance against union 

Delegates cheered, party's dire ratings.
Associated Press 
waved Britain's Union Jack Pinochet, 83, has been 
national flag and sang detained in Britain for 
BLACKPOOL "Land of Hope and Glory,'.' nearly a year fighting a 
British opposition leader a favorite Tory anthem. as Spanish attempt to extra­William Hague hardened 
llague and his wife, Ffion, dite him on charges of his Conservative Party's made their way from the grave human rights abuses 
stance against a more uni­
platform at fied Europe on Thursday. the end of ending an annual confer­
the 50­enct~ where Margaret m in u t e Thatcher, idol of the party speech.
right, ,lJade an electrifying Party pro­return. Europeans In a keynot(~ address. were dis­
Hague said the Tories m aye d. would veto a new 
however. European Union treaty, And the which covers the proposed Tories also admission of former com­
were divid­munist countries, unless ed over member states can opt out 
whether of most Europe-wide laws·. 
former 
"When we 're in government, the next new EU treaty must contain a flexibility clause or else I tell you there will be no­new treaty. " 
William Hague opposition leader 
during his 17-year rule, which began after he top­pled an elected Marxist president in 1973. 
R o b i n Cook, foreign secretary in the Labor Party gov­ernment, said th·e 
Tories had "finally lost touch with reality." If re­elected, the Conservative Party would make British membership of the EU untenable, hn said. 
"In praising Pinochet and denouncing Europe, the Tories have shown that they are now a party of the right-wing fringe, more interested in indulging their prejudices than argu­ing for Britain's interests," Cook said in a statement issued in London. 
Taking a tough line on Europe and opposing adop­tion of the euro, the new single currency used by 11 of the 15 EU members, are virtually the only policies on which the Tories outscore Prime Minister Tony Blair's government in opinion polls. 
"He came out and called us extremists -as if wanti­ng to keep control of our own currency is extreme," said Hague, stung by Blair's attack on conser­
vatism  during  Labor's  
annual  conference  last  
week.  

"When we're in govern­ment, the next new EU treaty must contain a flexi­bility clause or else I tell you there will be no new treaty," Hague declared. 
Prime Minister Thatcher's attacks on European inte­gration and her plea for the release of former Chilean dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet would help the 

u: 0 &. u g 
page 6 Friday, October 8, 1 999 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Eddy 
continued from page 1 
that he had played under 
that nickname at Notre 
Dame. 
Word gradually spread around the plant that the new guy McMullen was the former Irish star run­ning back, and the lie grew. 
"One person told anoth­er person and another person," he said. One of those people who believed McMullen was the star tailback \Vas his current wife, whom he met at that job and has been vvith ever since. Neither she nor their 10-year-old son knew the truth until this week. 
McMullen said he had hoped to shake the moniker when he moved to California in 1979 to help raise the children from his first marriage. No one on the West Coast knew him as the former Notre Dame star. But 10 years later he decided to move back to New Bedford with his second, and cur­rent, wife to raise their son. 
"We came back and I had forgotten about the whole issue," he said. "But it was still there." 
People would ask McMullen if he was Nick Eddy, and, he said, he would say yt~s and leave it at that. 
"I tried to downplay it as much as I could," he said. 
Then, rive years ago, Kevin Gonsalves, the foot­ball coach at Old Colony High School in Hochester, Mass., offered McMullen an assistant coaching job. After some hesitation, McMullen, , who is knO\,vl­edgeable in the sport, accepted and had to sub­mit a brief' resume. On it he included that he had been Nick Eddy, the tail­back and Heisnian Trophy candidate at Notre Dame. 
lie has been coaching 
since then, but said that he 
resigned this week. 
McMullen, 58, has been undergoing psychiatric therapy recently, and said he had planned to reveal his secret in August. Two other assistant football coaches on his team resigned over the summer. however, and he decided to wait until after the sea­son, when his revelation would disrupt the team less. McMullen was also worried about how an abrupt revelation would affect his wife and son, lw said. 
"Unfortunately," he said, "it came out before I got a chance to say it myself." 
Tht\ real Eddy could not be reached for comment Thursday, but he told The Boston Globe that he has forgiven McMullen, and the confabulation caused him no harm. 
The two spoke earlier this week, according to the imposter, and Eddy was understanding. 
Finance 
continued from page 1 
The suggested campaign goal is $100 million. This includes about $70 million for current project costs for reno­vation and construction. It also includes $15-16 million for the endowment and for future upkeep and renovation of campus buildings. Another 
$6-8  million  is  slated  for  
scholarships  and  faculty  
endowment.  

The Board of Trustees has not formally adopted these figures, Russell said. 
"This is a 10-year vision," he said. "'f he number that we're looking at is the funding for the total vision." 
An implementation commit­tee composed of selected Trustees will work on the future f'undraising campaign. 
They will meet as a group for the first time in coming weeks. 
The campaign's target makes timing important, said Russell. Many alumnae con­tributed to last year's $36 million Susquentennial Campaign. 
Because Master Plan con­struction is scheduled over a 10-ycar period, there is some fundraising flexibility. 
"Because we are hoping to raise monies by project, there shouldn't be a delay [in con­struction)." Russell said. "Some things can be delayed longer, others can't. The sequencing could be influ­enced if we have internst by a donor in a specific project." 
Dates for the project in early stages of planning, how­ever, still remain unspecific. 
"It could be a few years down, no one knows for cer­tain," Bussell said. 

SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISiN2 Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest Prepared by Francesco and Family 
A:1 Authentic Taste of Italy M0st Romantic Pla~t. in South Bend and Mishawaka 
II ours: 
i:. ! "{ U ·H'.Jtl',:uv lrest
:\1011.-Sat. S:00-10:00 i' Ill. S1111. Closrt! .W:s11 tl 1.:a l.·<t ({'rann•,\('IJ 11'11.~ <I rlw((II :Vl)_fiir ,'/() )"Ptlrs)
I l!anqw•/ rooms arni!able 
Pilarski: Money tears justice 
tion program. becomt\ necessities, people
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Living in the wealthiest coun­want more luxuries, Pilarski 
News Writer 
try on earth, "we believe the asserted. myth of abundance within our­"I low arrogant and blind can Money can be an addictive selves and society," she said. we be to ignore the cries of the "narcotic" that tears justice 
People prosper in dif'feren t poor and think it has nothing to 
and faith apart, according to ways but "the economy is not do with us'?" she asked. Jan Pilarski. working for the poor. For Pilarski, the biblical pas­
In her lecture "Economic "Too many lives are flat, sage Jeremiah 2:11 motivates Justice: Profit or Prophet," the empty, and one-dimensional," her way of thinking about last lecture of the series on Pilarski said. "[As members of money. She realized that peo­
Catholic social concerns, Jan 
the middle -and upper-class], ple need to turn to things that Pilarski discussed how money money pre·occupics us and give thorn lifo, not idols of can be controlling and how holds us in forces that led us money.faith relates to the economy. 
from God." Pilarski also discussnd John 
"We need to make the con­Money consumes tinrn and 2, the passage in which Jesus nection between our daily life personal values so that people begins his public ministry and and our faith," said the director are only concerned about what throws the marketplace out of' of Saint Mary's justice educa-they want. When luxuries the Church. 
Castle'Poiot 
Apartments 
New C,1stle Poi11t Select U11,ts ..,vailable fo1· Next Se1neste1· 
*Within 1ninutes of can1pus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroo1n apartments, some with lofts 

• 
Includes 111e1nbership in the new 


Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 

Going quickly. Call now or visit us to tour our 1nost popular units. 
.;.;,t'''' 272-8110 ·····•.····•.~~;<r,..,,,~.·•,..•... 
Visit our website@www.castle~point.com 
Friday, October 8, 1999 page 7 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
--_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-------=-----=-----=-------=-------=-----_-_---:._-_--:.._-_---==========----------~ 
l 
i 
Siemens competition scheduled at ND 
By LIZ ZANONI 
News Writer 
This fall. Notrn Danw will team up \Vilh Carrwgie !\follon University, Georgia Institute of Technology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of' California at Berkeley and tlw Univl'rsity of Texas at Austin to host high school stud1mts competing in the Siemens ½'estinghouse Sciencn & Technology Competition. 
John Tobin, vice president of the Siemens Foundation, said he wanted the competition to 1mcourage students to "aim for the same high expectations in school work as we expect workers to demonstrate in our company; to reach beyond what's typically required." 
Competing students will pre~ sent their projects to a panel of judges. composed of Notre Dame faculty members from science and math areas, who will select onn individual and one team winner. Studrmts will be judged on their creativity. originality, academic vigor and clarity of presentation. 
The scholarship prize for each regional winner totals $20,000 and each team group will rnceive $30,00 in scholar­ships to be divided among the members. 
Notre Dame's turn to host is Nov. 12-14. During the three day event, the 20 student com­petitors will participate in on­campus activities, tour Notre Dame's labs and facilities and view science and technology demonstrations, including an earthquake simulation. 
In addition to the competi­tion, Notre Dame, along with the other five universities, hopes to _coordinate research internships for the winners. 
Assistant provost Matthew 
Cullinan expressed the possi­bility that student competitors, having had the opportunity to investigate science and engi­neering at Notre Dame, might be interested in pursuing their edur:ation at the University. 
Winners of the compntition will be recognizl>.d at an on­campus hanq uet Saturday night which Noble Prize win­
ner  and  physicist  Leon  
Lederman will attend  as the  
keynote speaker.  

Winners from each region will compete in the national competition. The grand prize is a $100,000 scholarship for the individual and $90,000 scholarship to be divided among the team winners. 
"The competition is unique because it reaches out nation­wide," Tobin said. When the competition is over Notre Dame will have helped acknowledge and determine some of the "best and the brightest around the country." 
The Siemens Foundation was established in 1998 to cul­tivate innovation, research and educational 'involvement in some of the most promising math and science students and teachers. The regional compe­titions begin Oct. 29 at Carnegie Mellon University and will end on Nov. 19 at Georgia Institute of Technology and Univnrsity of Texas at Austin. 
The Siemens Foundation, a nonprofit organization estab­lished by global technology company Siemens, is awarding the miHion dollar scholarship to high school students who develop independent research projects in the fields of sci­ence, math or technology. 
The Foundation is based on the belief that industry needs to make a continued effort to support education in these fields. 
SMC offers depression screenings, advice 
By COURTNEY BOYLE 
News Writer 
As part of National Depression Screening Day Thursday. Saint Mary's offered free, confidential. professional depression scrnening and a lunchtimP showing of· the movie, "Depression and Manic Depression: Heal Stories, Heal llopn." 
"Any screening is a success­ful onn, if a student com('s in and we am able to find tlrn problem," said Kris Pendley. assistant director in the Counseling and Career office. 
This screening is especially "We see more depression and relevant on a women's campus. anxiety than anything else (in One in every four women the Counseling and Career 
reports signs of depression sometime in 
"We see more depression
her lifetime, 
and anxiety than 
and one in 10 men anything else. " reports such signs, statis­
Kris Pendley
tics provided by · coun­assistant director, Counseling selors show. and Career Center At Saint Mary's, help 
office,)" said Pendley. 
There are two typical types of depression counselors see: bio­chemical and 
situational. 
Biochemical depression results form 
is as easy as "picking up the an imbalance in the brain's telephone and calling 4565," chemistry and usually occurs said Pendley. whnn someone has either too 
Book Signing 
John Phillip Santos 
author of 
"Places Left Unfinished at the time of Creation'' 

Saturday, October 9, 12:00 Noon -1:00 PM Notre Dame Bookstore 
Monday, October 11, 4: 15 PM Institute for Latino Studies Open House, 230 McKenna Hall 
For More Information, CalJ 631-4440 
many or not enough brain chemicals called neurotrans­mitters. This type of depression can affect a person in different ways, including altering sleep­ing and eating patterns. 
Situational depression can also occur for several reasons; these sometimes include being away from home for the first time, loss of a family member or break-up with a boyfriend or girlfriend. 
Some warning signs of depression are difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep, loss of interest in otherwise favored activities, extreme sadness and withdrawal. 

Wolbrecht to accept Catt prize 
By ALISON HEINZ 
News Writer 
Christina Wolbrecht, assistant professor of government and international relations at Notre Dame, will receive the 1999 Carrie Chapman Catt Prize for Hescarch on Women and Politics this Saturday. 
Wolbrecht and her co-author Kevin Corder, an assistant pro­fessor at the University of Michigan, are recognized for their ongoing research project titled "Women's Voting Behavior in the 1920s and Early 1930s." 
Wolbrecht, who has long been interested in women and politics and teaches a class with that title, is particularly interested in women's suffrage. "After all," said Wolbrecht, "it doubled.the size of the electorate." 
Wolbrecht and Corder began their research more than a year ago. Hesearch is quite extensive, and Wolbrecht said they expect to work on the project for sever­al more years. 
"The-research involves a lot of digging, not just data we can look up," said Wolbrecht. "We have had to find election returns from the 1920s." 
Wolbrecht's project is signifi­cant because it covers an area somewhat neglected in political research. 
"Even though women got the vote 75 years ago, and it seems like we should already know all of this. The fact is that we don't," said Wolbrecht. "There were no surveys back then." 
Wolbrecht and Corder will receive the award this weekend in Des Moines, Iowa. 
Fitness Instructor Training 
Do you enjoy exercising? Do you have leadership skills? Do you have good people skills? Combine your talents and skills by becoming a fitness instructor! 
Exercise Technique _:/:~--~:/)~ Cueing TeGhnique Music ,:/f,' 1'Jl Choreography 
.di1 '.\ 1\•\ 
.t1," \f
Injury Prevention . "-~ '!I Class Structure 
'1 
W 10/27 -12/8 6:45-8:lSpm RSRC $25 2 class meetings after Christmas break TBD. Registration begins October 11, 8am in the RSRC. Call 1-6100 with questions. 
Z?~3/~ 

Friday, October 8, 1999
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Diabetes 
continued from page 1 
time I showed my friends they thought it was cool. Show and tell was easy for me." 
Libby, Mike and Dan are typi­cal college students. Looking at them, it's not obvious they live with diabetes, but the disease structures and effects these stu­dents' lives and days. 
Dan told of how diabetes structured a seemingly ordi­nary day. lie almost had to can­cel a job interview because he didn't knov.: if he would have time to go back to Keenan Hall to take his shot of insulin between working at the OIT and meeting for the interview. 
"vVith diabetes, your day takes a lot of planning. You always have to kno\\· where your insulin is and when you will eat. It's difficult when 

scheduling "As a girl, the weight is 
things that 
your classes 
an issue. I've put on a other diabet­
because you ics can't. I'm
good 15 pounds since I 
have to make 
Italian, so I 
sure that you had diabetes. I used to be 
have to cat
have time to 
very skinny. but I am chicken
eat break­
parmesan,"
farced to eat in order to
fast, lunch 
Mike added. 
and dinner," maintain the 
Libby strug­he said. 
blood sugar level." gles with the
M i k e 
balance
agreed. "I 
between eat­
have to have Libby Balbort ing the neces­
a 9:30 class diabetic 
sary calories
just so that I and trying toknow I'll keep her fig-
wake up to eat breakfast," he said. ure. 
"As a girl. the weight is anScheduling and developing an 
issue. 1I'vc put on a good 15eating routine is essential to 
pounds since I had diabetes. Idiabetics because they need to eat regularly to prevent low blood sugar. something they monitor with a specially designed machine that immedi­ately analyses blood samples. 
"When I wake up in the morning, the first thing I do is check my blood sugar. I check it throughout the day. I prick my finger at least four times a day," said Libby. 
Mike added that he has built up calluses because he checks his blood sugar so much. 
Eating to survive 
To diabetics. eating is a necessity. and dieticians often organize strict diets for diabet­ics when they learn that they have a disease. 
"Eating is not pleasurable. It's a job and a chore. If I don't eat, I'll be sick," Mike said. "Fortunately. because I'm active. I'm on a 3,000 calorie diet. This allows me to eat some 
used to be very skinny. but I am forced to eat in order to maintain the right blood sugar level. That makes it tough to lose weight," Libby said. 
Libby noted that it would be easy for a "diabetic to lose weight if they do not eat, but if they did not eat. they would become very sick." 
The importance of knowing what to cat and how it affects blood sugar is some­thing diabetics simply learn with time. Mike talked about the fluc­tuation of his blood sugar vvhen he had to stop working out and participating in sports because of an injury. 
"\Vhen J was inac­
•Diabetes is the leading cause of· 
new cases of blindness in people 
ages 20-74. ·· 
11 Pieopl¢ with diabetes are. 2 to 4\ titnes ~ore HkeJy to h~ye heart .•· 

·dlfe{tse a.ndiot<SUffer a Stroke. 

The Walk 
His aversion to personalized attention is why Mike is leery about participating in Sunday's Juvenile Diabetes Walk in Chicago. a charity event to which Libby has devoted a lot • of time and energy over the past couple of weeks. 
The walk, for which Libby has coordinated a Notre Dame team, is a fund raiser to help find the cure for diabetes. 
"I've put a lot of time and effort into this walk," Libby said. It's become Vl~ry personal to me. J want to do something that will help find the cure not only for me. but for everyone ... especially those in developing countries that cannot afford treatment." 
look on the disease. 
"Diabetes is a nui­sance, but I have to stay positive and have a good sense of humor about it. It's a chal­lenge, but I have to," Mike said. 
Libby added, "There's no cure for the disease, so it becomes your life. We're in a culture that if' something is broke, we fix it. It's not like that with diabelf~s." 
According to Mi kc, diabetes has challenged him to change his per­sonality a bit. "When I ~..vas first diagnosed. I was verv defensive. That's my· personality. I didn't want tlrn special attention. I don't want anyone to pity me," he said. 
tive, my blood sugars skyrock­eted because I was on less insulin. My body was not used to being inactive," he said. "Now that I'm active again, my blood sugars are low because my body has to readjust to my lifestyle." 
He added that because of this, it is very hard for him to spon­taneously do something active. He has to plan ahead, so he can appropriately eat and take the right amount of insulin. 
Highs and lows 
Jf Libby, Dan and Mike do not properly follow their routines, their blood sugars can become too high or too low. The effects of low blood sugar are hunger, shakiness, sweatiness, having a pale color, anxiety. double vision and behavioral changes. Libby adds that it can lead to loss of consciousness. seizure or convulsion if not taken care of quickly. 
Mike added that high blood sugar has similar effects. Ile gets "nauseous, really hungry and extremely thirsty," when his blood sugar level gets too high. 
Mike and Libby both said stress and finals are two causes of their high blood sugar levels. 
All three students learned that the key to diabetes is knowing one's limits and know­ing how one's body reacts to different situations. Furthermore. they feel that the key to diabetes and living with it daily is to have a positive out-
Conference to explore implementation of pope's.letters 
Through a series of lectures. in this hemisphere," Cavadini of pulling olT such solidarity." is especially hopeful that stu­By SAM DERHIMER responses and interactive dis­said. "There is a deep social Highlights of the conference dents will show interest and News Wrirer cussions, conference attendees injustice in many South include the keynote address, participate in the conference. 
will explore such issues as the American countries. By building "Building a Culture of "Any student can participate." 
Cardinals, bishops and theo­vocation to holiness, martyr­a culture of solidarity. we are Solidarity," by Francis Cardinal Cavadini said. "I want this logical scholars from across the dom, the attempting to cross the bound­George at 8 p.m. Monday, and a whole series to be comphitcly \Vestern Hemisphere will visit Building a seculariza­aries of those disparities." lecture. "Martyrdom in student-friendly." 
tion of soci­·"If ai1yone can do this, it's the America," by Father Jon The conference is part of the 
Notre Dame for a three-day culture of 
conference, beginning Sunday, ety, the fam­Church," Cavadini said. "This Sorbrino of EI Salvador with department's "Millennial sponsored by the theology solidarity ily, Catholic conference will expand on the responses from Father Gregorio Series" which will include sev­social teach-vision the Church has for the Rosa Chavez, also of El eral different programs
department. . Who: whole hemisphere, as one Salvador. and Hobert Ellesbcrg inspired by the pop<\'S anthem.
''Building A Culture of Francis Cardinal ing. eco­
nomic j us-America. at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. "Building the Civilization of
Solidarity: Challenges and 
Promises of 'Ecclesia in George tice and "God, as a transnational linflu­The entire conference is open Love: Imagining the Third internation­encel. is the only vision possible to the public. Cavadini said he Millennium."
America'." will be a working . Where: 
al debt.
conference based on finding 
McKenna Hall 
"Thcire
viable implementations to one of Pope John Paul IJ's letters, auditorium are such 
disparities
"Ecclesia in America," said 
. When: 
of wealth
John Cavadini, chairman of the 
Monday, 8 p.m. and power
theology department. 
l<nocl,oul Wo,l,out 
Total Body Conditioning 
Punching Combinations Heavy Bag Work Boxing Footwork 





M/W I 0/25 -12/8 7-8:30pm T/Th 10/26 -12/7 7-8:30pm 
$20 + $5 handwraps Boxing Room located between Gates I & 2 in the Joyce Center. 

Regi,tration begin, Tue,day. I 0/ 1I 7:S0am in the RSRC. Call 1-6100 with que,lion,. 
Re-?~~ 
Friday, October 8, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 9 

EAST TIMOR 
Refugees return from camps 
Associated Press 
DILi 
Many wept as they walked oIT the plane. One man fell on his knees and kissed the ground. 
East Timor's refugees were coming home. 
Joy and relief overflowed today for the first batch of peo­pIe to return from the Indonesian territory of West Tim or. They had been held in refugee camps that reportedly are being controlled by the same militiamen who devastat­ed East Timor last month. 
"There was much propaganda by the militias," Brigada Belo, who returned with her husband Manuel, said at Dili airport. "They told us, 'If you go there, we will attack you from here when lnterfet leaves."' 
She turned to one of soldiers from the international peace­keeping force -known by its mission acronym, lnterfet ­and asked: "Is it true you are leaving?" 
"No, no. don't worry. we're staying." Sgt. Paul Turner reas­sured her. 
That was just one facet of the uncertainty faced by the 94 ptm­ple from 15 families who arrived after a 45-minute flight from the West Timor capital, Kupang. 
Did other relatives escape the carnage? Were their homes still standing, or were they torched in a scorched-earth policy by departing Indonesian. soldiers? Would there be food, water, safety? 
Maria da Costa, a 38-vear-old mother, said she would ·look for her husband. She last saw him before fleeing Dili weeks ago. 
'Tm very happy that I'm going back, but I'm still afraid," she said. "All l know is I'll be sleep­
..,.m very happy that rm going back, but I'm still afraid. ,, 
Maria da Costa East Timorese mother 
ing in a tent tonight." 
Thf1 returning refugees were taken in trucks, past people clapping on the roadside, to the stadium that has been turned into temporary housing for tens of thousands who already have returned from the nearby hills. 
As U.N. relief workers gave each family plastic sheeting, rice, soap and water, there were family reunions full of embraces and tears of joy -or of sorrow. A teen-age girl and her younger brother were told that their grandmother died while they were gone. They leaned back against a wall and wept. 
At the same time, the plane returned to West Timor to pick up a second group of people. The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees will begin daily flights \1onday and hopes to return refugees by ship and truck as well. 
UNHCR spokesman Fernando del Mundo said there had been no problems in Kupang with the first send-off. "We were afraid that the presence of militia in the camps would prevent us from doing this, but it went very well," he said. 
Despite guarantees from Jakarta, del Mundo said UNI ICR still had no access to refugees in Atambua, near the East-West Tirnor border, where anti-inde­pendence militias control the oncampments. Del Mundo said UNHCR was trying to establish a presence there and hoped to evacuate refugees from the area as soon as possible. 
Indonesian officials say some 250,000 refugees fled into West Timor after a wave of violence followed an Aug. 30 vote for East Timor to separate from Indonesia. 
The Australian-led peacekeep­ing force, which now stands at just under 5,000 troops, should reach its full strength of 7,500 within two weeks, Australian Defense Minister John Moore said today. 
The force's commander, Maj. Gen. Peter Cosgrove, was to meet today with Matan Ruak, head of the pro-independence Falintil guerrillas, who have fought Indonesian rule since the occupation of East Timor in 1975. 
"He will speak on a compre­hensive reconciliation and lay­ing down of arms proposal," said Col. Mark Kelly, chief of staff of the international force. 
Falintil has agreed in principle to disarm but refuses to do so until all of the 1,400 remaining Indonesian soldiers leave East Timor. 
Several hundred East Timorese civilians gathered this morning at the port in Dili to jeer Indonesian sailors loading trucks into a landing ship, shouting: "Get out of our coun­try, you scum!" 
Kelly also said Cosgrove had sent a second letter to the army command in Jakarta, demand­ing that four Indonesian officers "be made available to assist with the investigation" of the murder of Dutch journalist Sander Thoenes on Sept. 20. Thoenes' motorbike driver said the gunmen wore Indonesian uniforms. 

Brad Metz, C.S.C. • Irish Guard 1992-95 Ordination Date: April 6, 2002 
Can you make this team? 

ANSWER ~ mECALL ~ 

Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/---vocation 
Giuliani to curb· city's double parking 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The city where everything goes is fast becoming a place w h ere anything can get you a tick­et. 
First, M a yo r Rudolph Giuliani issued an edict to c r a c k down on jaywalking -some­thing taught to city kids at birth. Then city officials out­lawed large park gatherings without a permit. 
Now, after years of looking the other way, police are writ­ing tickets for something as New York as a bagel and lox -double parking. 
"What's next? We'll have to eat our bagels a certain way'?" complained Terrence Catalano on Thursday. 
"The mayor is trying too hard to fix things that aren't broken," the 40-year-old investment analyst said. "I know crime is down but I have to believe there's still a crimi­nal element out there." 
To put things in perspective for out-of-rights are being violated. 

Rights? You betcha, says Maureen Godwin, 65, a life­long Manhattan resident. 
"Everyone double parks here because there's so few parking spaces, and cops have always looked the other way," Godwin said as she waited in her double parked car for her husband to come out of a store. "My parents double parked, I double park, my kids double park. Where are we supposed to park'?" 
That's your problem, the cops say. Police Commissioner Howard Safir stands firm when it comes to "Operation Move Along." Fines range from $55 to $280. 
New Yorkers planning on taking refuge in a park cannot let their guard down there, either, thanks to a rule bar­ring more than 20 people to gather in a park without a $25 permit. 
That news has led to some whining. Especially in the case of Byron -a Labrador retriever mix whose third birthday party came to a screeching halt in August when a parks enforcement officer ticketed his owner. There were more than 20 peo­ple wolfing down cake; it never occurred to Brian Thibeault that he 
towners, 
"What's next? We'll have needed a
New Yorkers 
permit.
excel at to eat our bagels a cer­
"Everyone
three things: tain way?" 
was on a
walking 
leash and
faster than 
everyone
Terrence Catalano
any other 
was well­
two-legged New Yorker 
be have d,"
creature, jaywalking and double parking. 
Only speed walking remains legal, at least for now. The crackdown on the other two habits, says Giuliani, is simple: They're illegal. 
But that doesn't mean Giuliani doesn't succumb to bad habits himself sometimes. The mayor has admitted he jaywalks "as a matter of habit and instinct." 
Police have eased up on the jaywalking tickets. But they declared all-out war this week on double parking; orange and white parking tickets are blan­keting the city like New Year's Eve confetti in Times Square. 
Hesidents long used to dou­ble parking in a city with a mere 30,000 legal curbside parking spaces for hundreds of thousands of cars say their 
s a i d 
Thibeault, 
who was presumably speaking of the dogs. "There was no barking. There was no music, no noise." 
The case, which came to light Thursday, was dropped after the Daily News called the city Parks Department. Parks Commissioner Henry Stern said the permit rule is gener­ally used to control very large, organized events like concerts and theatrical performances. 
Now, it seems the only thing New Yorkers can hold onto is their gazelle-like gait. Residents don't plan on giving up that right. 
"Giuliani would have to reprogram all of us to turn off that fast walking switch," said Carmen Ordonez of Brooklyn, as she walked -with light­ning speed -to lunch. 
Got an opinion? Use it. Observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu. 


Friday, October 8, 1999
page 10 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Oktoberfest Walk/Run raises more than $400 for breast cancer 


By MOLLY McVOY Assistant Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's Oktoberfest Run/\Valk was more that just a race this year, with proceeds going not to the 
College but to sup­
choice between a 3­
port breast can­run or a 1 cer awareness. 1/2-mile walk. Co-spon­The winner of 
sored by the the 3-mile Student race was Nurses cross coun­Association try coach and Saint D a v e Mary's ath-Barstis, fin­1 et i c; s, ishing with a Thursday's time of 16:32. race raised $41 5 The cross for South Bend's country team won 
breast cancer research and awareness organization. 
Participation also increased for the race. enrolling 182 run­ners, 40 more than 1998. 
Janel Miller, Oktoberfest coordinator, attributed the suc­cessful turnout and support of the event to timing. 
"I think it \Vent so w c11 
~TR.EDA E~ ~}>AR.TMEN1r~ 

Now Leasing! 
--~%~::-. 
;, 4 Blocks from Campus 
~;I 
. " . :;::_ ·p,:.)(~1 
i:l# Large 2-Bedrooms for under $500.091:; 
tmt··· 

Pre~Leasing for Fall 2000! 
The Best Value In Off Campus Livi 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Co~p. 
234-9923 
because it was during Pride Week," she said. "It was adver­tised more than ever. and it was for a charity -breast can­cer awareness." 
The race registered 87 indi­vidual and nine team entries. Participants had a 
the event, fol-. 
lowed by basketball and swimming. The Nurse's Association, residence advisors from residence halls, and the social work club also compet­ed. 
Saint Mary's hopes to spon­sor the event next year. but v.·hat organization it will sup­port has not been decided. 

KRISTINE KAAlffhe Observer 
Participants in Oktoberfest Walk/Run fight to get to the front of the pack at the beginning of the race. In the race's first year as a charity event, organizers raised over $400 for breast can­cer awarness. 
A perfect 111eeting place throughout the ,veekend. 
D.1ri11~ 
:\ii .D. Ho1ne Footha 11 \\'l'l'kends. 
Evervo11e ~Velco111e 
Grilled Rur&ers. Brats. and Othl'r Spcualtil'\ Cold Beverages & Spirih fl()" Scrl'L'I1 TV-.., hdlv Lndoscd TL·nt 
1ext to the N.I). Bookston·. 219-631-2000 

Spectrum Sports Sale 
"Officially Licensed" 

Notre Dame Products 
At 
Logan Center 
-Super Special­**Selected ND Sweatshirts $19.95 (Reg. $49.95) With Purchase** **Selected ND T-Shirts $9..95 {Reg. $24.95) With Purchase** 
Was Special Other Football Weekend Specials 
Champion ND Lightweight Jacket ................................................................ $59.95 
$24.95 
Selected ND Hats .................................................................................................... $24.95 
$ 9.95 
ND Button Down Dress Shirt (Khaki, Navy) .............................._. .............. $59.95 
$29.95 
-Check Out the Great Selection of Notre Dame Products at the Logan Center­
Friday Oct. 8th, 1:30 p.m.-7:00 p.m. Saturday Oct. 9th, 8:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. 
*Logan Center located south of the stadium at the corner of Eddy and Juniper *Free gifts to first 50 purchases-compliments of Spectrum Sports (309-786-9318) 
Friday, October 8, 1999 
The Observj'r . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
MEXICO 
Mexico floods, mudslides kill 131 in remote villages 
. 
'\foxko. wlwre flooding brought
Associated Press 
on by more than a wePk of rain has killPd at least 131 1wople.
Tl:ZJUTIA:\, '.\1t,xico 
c;ov<'rnnwnt ollicials said tlw
\\'ith doz!'ns of' pPoplP 
dnath toll was certain to rise as
lwliP\'l'd buried aliv<' in mud­rPports comp in from towns nowslides, rnsnw \Yorkers struggled cut off from tlrn outside world.
Thursday to roach r11mote 
Flooding sent rivers roaring
towns in soutlwrn and c<•ntral 
over their banks in 10 statPs 
1999-2000 Season 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre Presents 
Gabler 
fienrik Ibsen 
Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, October 6  7:30 p.m.  
Thursday, October 7  7:30 p.m.  
Friday, October 8  7:30 p.m.  
Saturday, October 9  7:30 p.m.  
Sunday October IO  2:30 p.m.  

Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
across the soutlmrn and· central 
portions of the country. Mon~ 
than 157,000 people have b(~('ll 
forced from their homes. 
In Mix u n , a vill ag1\ in th e mountains of Puebla state about I05 miles northeast of Mexico City, a mudslide buried 15 homes and a school. Ten people escaped but at least 40 oth(~rs were b1~lievcd trapped in tlw mud. said Juan Francisco Ponce Salas, an official in Pantepec municipality. which includes Mixun. 
The school was empty on \Vednesday at the time of the mudslide, Ponce said Thursday. 
Another Pantepcc official, Luis Francisco Diaz, appealed for assistance. 
"\Ve ne1~d help urgently since we, with our hands, can't do anything. We need equipment to get out the people trapped under thn mud." he told the gov­ernment news agency Notimex. 
President Ernesto Zedillo, who flew to Mexico on Thursday from Canada, ordered the mili­tary to do whatcwff it could to assist flood victims and set up shelters. 
Seventy pe_oplc were con­fi rmcd dead in the state of Puebla, state Gov. Melquiadcs Morales said Thursday in a radio address. Most had bem1 killed in mudslides in remote communities. and crews were at work repairing roads in order to reach the stricken areas, he said. 
The death toll included at h~ast 26 people who died near 
Teziutlan. a cliIT-tup cenwtery gave \Vay on 
The mountain city 110 miles \i\.'ed1wsday. cast of Mf~xico Citv rccordPd \VitnessPs reported s«~<'ing more than 80 mudsiides, one of n~mains from the cemPtery which swept away 20 houses, floating in a nearby riv1\r. A cry 
said Julieta  for  hnlp  
Perez. secre­ Thursday  
tary-gcneral for the municipality of 180,000.  "We are facing the most severe flooding in 40 years. We need to  turirnd out to havP come from a mus­tard-colorPd  
Isidora  evacuate as soon as  dog that  was  
Medina, a 38­y ear -old  possible. ,,  pulled out alive. Hescuers  
homemaker,  also recovflred  
said  one  Rurico Dominguez  tho bodies of  
mudslide car­ civil protection chief  three  human  

ried away several homes Tuesday evening. She spoke Thursday at a church where gravediggers prepared to bury seven victims in the sodden earth. 
"\Ne heard a very loud roar. Then the earth started to move and mud started to fall dovm the hill as if they were throwing buckets of water onto it," she said. "We thought Toziutlan had ravines, that the water would flow there and that nothing like this would ever happen." 
Townspeople said 30 to 40 people could still be buried in the mud. Military rescue learns had yet to reach Toziutlan because mudslidPs blocked roads. 
Dozens of volunteers clawed at tho earth with their hands and buckets Thursday with the slim hope of finding survivors in a mound of mud. The mud cov­ered more than 20 homes when victims. 
Some parts of southeastern Mexico had received 2 1/2 foet of rainfall in two days -a total greater than the average annual rainfall for the Mexico City area. Guillermo Guerrero: director of thn National \Vater Commission, told the Televisa network on Thursday. 
In Villahermosa, the Tabasco state capital 410 miles east of Mexico City, hundreds of peopln sought safety on their roof'tops Thursday, many for a second straight day. 
Some families were rescued by soldiers in launches, others built makeshift rafts. 
"We are facing tho most severe flooding in 40 years. We need to be on constant alert and evacuate homes as soon as pos­sible. We will not put lives at risk," said Rurico DominguPz, civil protection chief in Villahermosa. 
I-Iedda 
by 

T1ckets are available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. ( Mastercard a11c'! Vi_.;a orders call 63 1-8128 
b ______ 
Inspired by the magnificent setting, a contemporary country estate on 72 rolling acres LaPorte County, Indiana -30 minutes from Notre Dame Beautiful country Contemporary design graces this 6200 square foot residence on 72 rolling acres in the scenic Moraine district of Northwest Indiana. Built to be in har­mony with it surroundings. this inviting home just ninety minutes from Chicago is surrounded by a spring-fed pond, a running strean1 and acres of open, grassy fields, ravines and horse/walking trails in the breathtaking hard­wood forests. Glass walls throughout the horne create a continuous 360-degree -panorama of this magnificent setting. The custon1-built residence with beautiful cherry, hickory and oak cabinetry, has a welcoming great room with a cathedral ceiling and a fireplace, a large country kitchen with two expansive outdoor decks, a private study and a formal dining rooin. There are five bedrooms, five fu11 baths, two powder rooms and a large family roon1 with a wall of glass and access to the grounds. A spacious, private guest quarters and an oversized three car garage add to this hon1e' many features. In addition, there is an equipment barn and a three bedroom guest or caretaker home. The equestrian facilities include a 7-stall horse barn with heated tack room. Baird & Warner Offered at $2,200,000Residential Real Estate Since 1855 Exclusive Affiliate of Christie's Great Estates Linda A. Shaughnessy 312/988-9799 -telephone lshaugh107@aol.com -email  

• 
page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 8, 1999 


• 
We, the undersigned faculty and staff of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, regret, disapprove of, and protest the decision of the President of the University to suppress all advertising submitted to The Observer by GALA* and OUTreachND. ** 

•The 
President acts inappropriately, as if he were the publisher of a putatively independent student newspaper. Worse, since his policy rejects advertising from ·GALA and OUTreachND in advance, without regard to the propriety or the educational and infor~ational value of specific copy, it is arbitrary and discriminatory. The President's action threatens the credibility of The Observer as an independent newspaper. 


, 
•However, if the President of a university exercises advance censorship of advertising copy for an independent student newspaper, both his decision and the views of the censored groups become newsworthy. We encourage The Observer editorial staff to continue their responsible and full coverage of this news, and we support all eff arts to increase understanding of the role of a truly independent student newspaper in this community. 
*GALA is the unofficial organization of Gay and Lesbian alumnae/i of the University of Notre Dame. **OUTreachND is the unofficial student organization supporting Notre Dmne students questioning their sexual orientation or dealing with a sexual orientation placing then1 in a social minority. 
John Adams, Beverly Ainsley, Joan Susan C. Hans, David Harley, Susan C. 
Joseph M. Powers, Ava Preacher, DianeAldous, Susan Alexander, Heidi L. Harris, Robert Haywood, Marsha L. Heck, Pribbernow, Kathy A. Psomiades,Ardizzone, Wendy Arons, Reginald F. Glenn Hendler! Paula M.. Higgins, Coleen Kathleen Pyne, Phil Quinn,, BenjaminBain, Tamara Baker, Kate Baldwin, Hoover, Alan Howard, Thomas Jemielity, Radcliff, Paul Rathburn, GretchenCharles Barber, Joseph Bauer, Kimberly Carlos Jerez-Farran, Encarnacion Reydams-Schils, Andrew Reynolds, JoanA. Baum, Laura Bayard, Timothy Bays, Juarez, David Todd Jenkins, Paul Rhoads, Juan M. Rivera, CharlesGail Bederman, James 0. Bellis, Doris Johnson, Sonja K. Jordan, Elizabeth M. 
Rosenberg, David Ruccio, R. L. Rutsky,Bergen, Nora J. Besansky, Kathleen Karle, Conrad Kellenberg, Douglas Kathryn Ryan-Zeugner, Susan St. Ville,Biddick, lkaros Bigi, Patricia Blanchette, Kinsey, Marjorie Kinsey, Julia Knight, Patti Sayre, Mark Schurr, Siiri S. Scott,Thomas E. Bogenschild, Rebecca Bordt, James Kolata, Janet Kourany, Michael James H. Seckinger, Robert P. Sedlack,John Borkowski, Scott D. Bridgham, Kremer, Robert A. Krieg, e.S.C., William Jr., Tom Shaffer, Richard Sheehan, Daniel.
Jacqueline Brogan, Seth Brown, Gerald Krier, Claudia Kselman, Tom Kselman, Sheerin, Dinah L. Shelton, Susan G.
L. Bruns, Theodore Cachy, Naomi Greg Kucich, Giovanna Lenzi-Sandusky, Sheridan, Kristin Shrader-Frechette,Cassirer, Ann K. Clark, Robert Coleman, Christine Levecq, Blake Leyerle, Marya Michael A. Signer, Robert M. Slabey, J.
Frank Connolly, James P. Cunningham, Lieberman, Louise Litzinger, Joanne M. 
Eric Smithburn, Lyn Spillman, James P.
James Cushing, Roberto Damata, Sperry Mack, Mary Ann Mahony, Gail Mandell, Jill Sterba, Marsha Stevenson, DonaldDarden, Noreen Deane-Moran, Kenneth Mann, Ed Manier, Eugene R. Marshalek, Stikeleather, Christopher Strathman DeBoer, Michael DePaul, Mic Detlefsen, Julia Marvin, Nancy Mascotte, Hank Patrick J. Sullivan, C.S.C., Tom Swartz,Jane A. Devine, Jeffrey Diller, Alyssa W. Mascotte, Diana C. J. Matthias, John Kimberly Taylor, Lawrence R. Taylor,Dinega, Myrtle Doaks, Jay P. Dolan, Matthias, Bill McGlinn, John T. McGreevy, Margo Hobbs Thompson, Jay Tidmarsh, William Donaruma, Matthew J. Doppke, Robert McIntosh, Christopher A. McLaren, Maria Tomasula, Steve Tomasula, George Eileen M. Doran, Liz Dube, Brian • Patricia McNeal, Martha Merritt, Ken Trey, Cameron Tuai, James Turner, Edwards, Elizabeth D. Eldon, Sam Milani, Carry F. Million, Christian Moevs, Barbara Turpin, Eugene Ulrich, LinneaEvens, Steve Fallon, Jeremy Fein , Kenneth E. Moore, Layna Mosley, Lenny Vacca, Robert Vacca, Kevin Wangler, PaulDouglas J. Fishkind, Judith Fox, Stephen Moss, Kathleen M. Murphy, James Murray, Weithman, James F. White, ThomasFredman, Dolores W. Frese, JoAnn Daniel J. Myers, Jennifer Nemecek, Alven Whitman, Richard A. Williams, UrsulaGabrich, Patrick J Geary, James A. M Neiman, Jennifer Nolan, Carolyn Williams, Karmen M. Wilson, PamelaGlazier, Teresa Ghilarducci, Jill Godmilow, Nordstrom, Sean O'Brien, Maria Olivera­Robertson Wojcik, Christina K.
Frederick W. Goetz, Anamaria Goulet, Williams, William O'Rourke, Catherine Wolbrecht, Martin H. Wolfson, Robert J. 
Barbara Green, Arthur M. Grubert, Gary Perry, Teresa Godwin Phelps, Richard Wolosin, Jackie S. Wyatt, Ewa Ziarek, Gutting, David Hachen, Maureen Pierce, Ann Plamondon, Carolyn Krzysztof ZiarekHallinan, Eugene Halton, Gary Hamburg, Plummer, G. Margaret Porter, Jean Porter, 
Christopher Hamlin, Noriko Hana-busa, Mary K. Porter, Ann Pouk, F. Clark Power, 

Friday, October 8, 1999 page 13
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Trump considers presidential run with Reform Party 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Heal estate tycoon Donald 
Trump announced Thursday 
that he was ronning an 
exploratory committee to help 
him determine if he could win 
a presidential rac0 as a 
Heform Party candidate. 
lie said his first choice for 
vice president would be Oprah 
\Vinfrny. 
"The only thing that could 
interest me is if I could win. I'm not talking about the nom­ination, I'm talking about the whole megillah," he said in a telephone interview from New York, where he plans to build the world's tallest residential building and where he lives in a marbled penthouse in a Fifth Avenue tower bearing his name. 
Trump planntul a dinner Thursday night with Minnesota Gov. Jesse Ventura 

-the Reform Party's leading sue a race in several months. elected official. Ventura, a for­During an interview taped mer wrestler who won the for broadcast on CNN's "Larry governor 's office in a 1 9 9 8 King Live," Trump said Ms. upset, is trying to find a candi­\Vinfrey, the talk-show host, date he can back in what is would be his first choice for shaping to be a fractious nom­running mate. The two have 
ination fight. 
"Do I like him for the Heform Party?" Ventura 
said.  when  
asked  about  
T  r  u  m  p  s  

announcement. "It depends if he likes the Reform Party." 
He said he was not ready to make an en-
not spoken about it, however. 
" I f she'd do "I'm not talking about the it, she'd 
nomination, I'm talking be fantas­
tic,"
about the whole 
Trump
megillah." said. "I mean, s h e ' s
Donald Trump 
popular,
real estate tycoon 
she's bril­
1 i ant, 
she's a 
dorsement in thn 2000 presi­wonderful woman." dnntial race. Trump's announcement 
Trump, a billionaire, said gives a fresh stir to an already that unlike traditional topsy-turvy presidential race. exploratory committees, his It is also sure to raise ques­would not raise money. "The tions about the future of the good thing about this is I don't Reform Party and its potential need the money," he said. impact on next year's election. Instead, it will provide politi­Pat Buchanan, concerned cal advice. Trump refused to about the commitment of identify his advisers but said Republican front-runner George he will decide whether to pur-W. Bush to conservative ideals, is widely expected to bolt from the GOP late this month to se(~k the Reform nomination. His campaign refused to comment on Trump's announcement. 
Meanwhile, former Connect­icut Gov. Lowell Weicker, a Hepublican-turned-indepen­dent, is considering running for the nomination of the American Reform Party, a splinter group. In addition, Ventura himself could launch a campaign despite earlier denials, and there has been talk of a candidacy by actress Cybill Shepherd. 
The party's nominee will get $12.6 million in federal cam­paign funds. 
A CNN-Time poll taken in July suggested Trump would be a long-shot for the presi­dency. He had 7 percent when matched against Bush and Vice President Al Gore, the Democratic front-runner. 
Trump cited a different poll. 
''The National Enquirer ... did a poll and said I'd win the election." he said in an inter.: view on NBC's "Today." The tabloid surveyed 100 people. 
UPS to stop some handgun shipping 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
United Parcel Service plans to stop shipping handguns via its ground service, instead forcing customers to use the more expensive air service -a cost dealers and manufactur­ers say will be passed on to 
consumers. 
Atlanta-based UPS, the world's top package delivery company, says handguns are attractive to thieves and easy targets in the company's fleet 
'.1),-lliMl====iliiillliliillillllllll::=============--------=-===-===--------:il! 
112TH ANNUAL SORIN COLLEGE TALENT SHOW 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 8 8:30PM 
SORIN PORCH 
e(J7)te See StJ'1i:11t ?lt,e1t 
r/7 7~1e,;e 7mes7 
of brown trucks. 
"We arc taking this step as a responsible corporate citizen," UPS spokesman Norman Black said Thursday. "This is tlrn best way for us to add security to the movement of these weapons." 
The new rule goes into effect Monday. The company will continue to ship long guns, 
rifles and shotguns by ground because those guns are more difficult to steal. however. 
Black said "hundreds" of handguns are stolen from UPS each year. 
"Our attitude is that even one such instance is one too many and we just had to find some way to improve the security around these shipments," he said. 
UPS's Next Day Air service is a separate. more controlled system where packages are handled by fewer people and stay in the system for only one night, he said. 
Black said he did not know what percentage of the gun market UPS shipped, but 
industry lPaders say the com­pany handles about 75 percent of guns sent from manufactur­ers to distributors and nearly all firearms shipped from dis­tributors to dealers. 
UPS' biggest competitor, Federal Express, has restricted guns to its Priority Overnight service for the past 20 years, said spokeswoman Carla Boyd. 
Airborne Express, the No. 3 express carrier. restricts gun shipments to air, said spokesman Tom Branigan. 
The Postal Service will not ship handguns unless they are being sent to a law enforcement agency or among gun dealers and makers. 
RPS is the only company that accepts guns for shipment on the ground. Spokeswoman Betsy Momich said the company does not ship very many guns but offi­cials are discussing what affect the UPS decision will have on their business. 
"We are re-evaluating what our policies are because safety is first and foremost in our mind," she said. 
Knott Hall Fiesta 
Sponsored Ay 
The Men ofKnott Hall And laAlianza 
A Two Day Celebration in Rttognition of Hispanic Heritage Month 
Latin AltU!rican Round Table Discussion "The Roles ofLatino St11drnls, Administrators, Faculty, and Steff' 
Featuring: 
Adria Penagos 
Facilitator Assistant Director ofthe Office ofMulticultural Student Affairs 
Professor Maria Rosa Olivrra-Wdluuttf 
Romance Languages and Literatures Kellogg Institute Faculty Residential Fellow 
Professor Juan Rivera 
College ofBusiness Administration Associate Professor ofAccounting And Students 
Marisa Marquez Cynthia Vega Angela Anderson 
Thursday, October 7, 1999 !lp.m. Lafortune Ballroom 
Hasta La Victoria (Until Victory) 
Featuring: 
DejWalk Productions 
Providing the best ofSalsa, Merengue, and Hip-Hop Music Along with Food Provided By 
La Esperanza 
Warm-up with the Juggernauts before the Ariz.ona State Pep-Rally Friday, October 8. 1999 4-6 p.m. At Knon Hall 
_J 
page 1 4 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 8, 1999 



• f'«<'4:, ,.,,,-»t.,. 
:~ l*;-~¾..i 




Why work.for one .com, when you can work for hundreds? 
e., 



i> 





FORTUNE You haven't gotten this far by limiting 10~~~~ ,. your possibilities. And if you want to 
~MIES 
TU WORK FOR go even farther, consider the possibilities at Ernst & Young. You'll have access to some of the most 

sophisticated tools in the technology industry and work with some of the companies that help define it. Log on. www.ey.com 

CONSULTING~ TA:X. ASSURANCE . 
-i ERNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 


Friday, October 8, 1999 page 15
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Bradley proposes annual aid to working families 
showed him breaking ahead of said to knowing nods. 
Associated Press 
Vice President Al Gore for the "The new global economy first time in this first-in-the­just doesn't care about the 6:30 nation primary state. dinner hour."
PETEHBOHOUGI I. NII In a policy address aimed at The Gore campaign criticized
Painting an American por­
suburban swing voters, Bradley's proposal.
trait of strnssed-out parents 
Bradley also echoed a proposal "When it comes to the most
and deserted kitchen tables, 
made earlier by Senate important issues facingBill Bradley proposed on 
Democrats and Gore, Bradley's America's working families,
Thursday 
rival for the Democratic nomi­like after-school care, the mar­
$2.6 bil­
nation, to expand. the popular riage penalty, quality child
lion in 1993 Family and Medical care and real help with college,
annual 
Leave Act to workers in small­he falls short, and even flat,"
help to 
er businesses than are current­said Kiki Moore, Gore's cam­families ­Iv covered. paign spokeswoman.
everything • Bradley contrasted his Bradley slipped into a crowd­
f r o rn 
"Norman Hockwell" boyhood, ed high school gymnasium here
preschool when he and his parents sat without a band or any of theand child down to dinner at 6:30 p.m. other flashy accompaniments
care, to 
sharp, to the modern-day fren­typical of campaign stops. A
communi­zy. wave of clapping began once
ty colleges and a new army of 
"Dinner in most American students near the door recog­
senior-citi1,en volunteers. 
homes these days looks like a nized the tall candidate making
"What individual families miniature Grand Central sta­his way toward the stage.
cannot build on their own, we tion with people dashing in and As he spoke, aides buzzed to
can all build together," the 
out ... Either that, or the reporters about a WNDS­
Democratic presidential candi­
kitchen is deserted," Bradley Franklin Pierce College poll
date said, as a new poll 

:c 
...... 
THE 0'NEO.I, BBOT¦ ERS
::::a 
Cl 11­
:Ea: "Duelillfl Pianos"
~w
.:._O
z 
1uesduy October26, 1999 • 7:00_p.m.
-o 
:z:: 0 
H'iuhington Hall at Notre Dan,e 
~z 

C ­
G.. Cl) This i!; b be11rfi.t ooocert 
~ .... 
Adulu;; $25 • StudMts & Seniors: $10
~m 
cu, Atllt117'1P''. :Jtfj1Ullg lti$ion ~ fal/a;g UJ,u,:rf
:cw 
.!::: er
:E Q. Tick~~ are HmiJed •ad awai'8hle bf pho.ee-.tALL! 
....: 
c.,,:, 
(219) 631-8128 or (219) ,36-4677 
released Thursday that showed this project, in addition to the Bradley with a narrow lead $10.5 billion that the govern­over Gore in New Hampshire. ment already spends each year A second poll had the two on Head Start, the dependent Democrats in a statistical dead­care tax credit, and child care heat. subsidies for low-income fami­
A national CBS News poll out lies. Thursday He also pro­showed Gore posed new 
had the sup­"Jtt,'hat individual grants to com­port of f amities cannot build on munity colleges 
almost half that do a better
their own, we can all
and Bradley job of matching of a third of build together." high school likely voters graduates' i n needs with
Bill Bradley
Democratic demands in the
presidential candidate
primaries. local job mar-Bradley has ket, providing gained flexible class strength in polls in recent schedules and on-site child care months, but has had the sup­for working parents and improv­port of almost a third in sever­ing students' technological skills. al recent polls while Gore's Finally, he called for an older­support has ranged from about person's version of President 50 percent to the mid 60s. Clinton's "Americorps" that 
Bradley played down the num­would offer tax-free stipends of bers: "This is a long campaign. $200 a month to senior citizens Very obviously, I'd rather be who volunteer at least 15 hours ahead than behind. Nationally, per week at approved nonprofit I'm still 15 points behind [Gore], youth programs such as the so we've got a lot of work to do." YMCA, Boys and Girls Clubs, 
To his crowd of several hun­school tutoring, or faith-based dred students and local resi­mentoring. dents, Bradley said he would fill Bradley put a $2.6 biilion in the gaps in Amer-ica's annual price tag on his package "catch-as-catch-can hodge­and said that it would -like his podge" of child care systems by $65 billion-per-year universal creating and funding community health plan -be paid for out of boards -comprised of groups the federal budget surplus, such as the Chamber of which is projected to reach Commerce, Parent-Teacher about $1 trillion over the next Association, local child welfare decade. agencies and churches -to find "This proposal is not about big new ways of delive_ring preschool government but it's about big services. ideas and the courage to commit 
Modeled after North Carolina's ourselves tq finding a common­"Smart Start," Bradley would sense balance between family spend $2 billion each year on and work." Bradley said. 

Kraft Foods Finance 
Attention: Undergraduate stu.dents and Graduates students 
Do you have an appetite for success? Corne to a Company Presentation 
On campus interviews to follow on November 10. 
Graduate students 
Tuesday,October12 12:30 -1:30 p.m. College ofBusiness, Room 15g 
. 
Undergraduate students 
Tuesday,October12 6:00 -7:00 p.m. LaFortune Student Center, Foster Room 
Pleasejoin us! 

K.i-«.-ft 'rO"o-tl., 
www.\:.Y0t..Pt--Pcot:A.s.ccv.-\ 
_____m..¦a..•••--•-~•••211122----•-•'-•..a••a...a••••••=••• 222S1111m..11!£•••••1z¦1111
..•--•2-••••••----••11.


page 16 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MA."IAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Lo~an VIF.~'POINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SrORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE ErnTOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen. Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN ClUEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. J@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spotts. I@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S........................................... ..63 l-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ac http://obsen1er.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/music for 
weekly srudem reviews 
minure forecasrs 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and races of prim ads 
cial campu.~ coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
· to meet the editors and 
articles published after 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
Thr Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudems ofthe Universicy ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol 'and The Observer's acceptance of advcrdsemems from specified cypes ofgroups. 
The news is reported a.s accurately and objectively a.s possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoricy of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Michelle Krup,l. 
O
THE 
BSERVER Friday, October 8, 1999 

ti 
* 


.Respect Life Week a time of worship 

Maybe you haven't heard that this is Respect Life Week on campus. Or maybe you dismiss it as a knee-jerk attack on abortion from the fever swamps of the Radical Right. The real­ity is different. Let me try to explain. 
Since Roe v. Wade in 1973, legalized abortion has delivered a body count of at least 40 million -. not including the uncountable abor­tions by injection, pill, intrauterine device, etc. The Court will not uphold any law which effectively prohibits any abortion. The technology of early abortions by pill and other means. moreover. is moving abortion beyond the reach of the law. 
In 1997, the Supreme Court upheld a law prohibiting assisted suicide. But the Court allows the states, in effect, to permit intentional killing of supposed­ly consenting patients by withholding food and water or by "terminal seda­tion." How can the law determine, except in an extreme case, whether a physician's decision to sedate a patient is intended to relieve pain or to kill? Like abortion, euthanasia is becoming a private choice, beyond the reach of the law. The American Hospital Association estimates that 70 percent of all the deaths in hospitals in this country are what Dr. Norman Fost, director of medical ethics at the University of Wisconsin, calls "planned deaths." Planned killing is a response to the shortage of workers to support the elderly, the retarded and the dis­abled. This shortage is a result of con­traception and abortion. 

In the "culture of death" the inten­tional infliction of death is ar,cepted as a problem-solving technique. Hight now, 3,565 persons are on death row in the United States. About 300 more are sentenced to death each year. To empty the death rows would require the execution of one person every day for 60 years. The state has authority to impose the death penalty. But that authority can rightly be exercised only if it ''is the only possible way of effec­tively detending human lives against the unjust aggressor." Catechism, (1997) no. 2267. That penalty can no longer be justified for reasons of deterrence or retribution but only to protect others from this convicted criminal. The criminal is guilty while the victims in abortion and euthanasia are innor,ent. In all three, however, John Paul II insists that God -not the individual and not the state -is in charge of the ending as well as the beginning of life. 
Abortion, euthanasia .and the wholB­sale use of the death penalty are symptoms of a culture that has lost sight of God as the Lord of life. "We are facing,'' said John Paul, "[al clash between good and evil, death and life, the 'culture of' death' and the 'culture of life.' We are all involved in it with the responsibility of choosing to be unconditionally pro-life." 
The Hespect Life effort makes that choice. While it seeks to prohibit abor­tion and euthanasia and to restrict the death penalty, it offers positive alter­natives and help to women contem­plating abortion or who have had an abortion to single mothers and to the disabled or terminally ill. It reminds us that, as John Paul put it, "not even a murderer loses his personal dignity." And it is not afraid to address the root evil of contraception. If, through con­traception, you make yourself, rather than God, the arbiter as to whether 
DILBERT 

u 
C
WHAT A.RE YOU 
!
•u
HEARING FR.OM 
ii 
C,.,
OUR CUSTOM£R5? 
U) ::, 
...•• ~ 

(NOT 
A. Pt® 
'Cl 
! 
C 
::::, 
I 
g::­
~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 

------------......--...... 
and when life shall begin, you ,-vill make yourself the arbiter of whether and when it shall end through abor­tion, euthanasia or the death penalty. The entire "culture of death" is based on the idea that there is such a thing as a life not worth living and that the decision on that point is for us rather than God. 
ND/SMC Hight to Life includes effec­tive outreaches to single mothers, to the Women's Care Center and to Hospice of St. Joseph County. But the heart of the Hight to Life effort is Eucharistic Adoration. "Through Jesus," said John Paul, "man is given the possibility of 'knowing' the t:om­plete truth concerning the value of human lifo. From this sourc1~ he receives the capacity to "accomplish" this truth perfectly." ''The Church and the world." he said, "have a great need for Eucharistic worship. Jesus awaits us in this sacrament of love. Let us not refuse the time to go to meet him in adoration, in contemplation full of faith and open to making amends for the serious offenses and crimes of the world. Let our adoration never cease." 
We suffer from the scourge of having the '60s and '70s generations in power. But, like an oil slick on a riv(~r. this, too, will pass. One of the Pope's recurrent themes is that "God is preparing a great springtimf~ for Christianity, and we can alrnady see its first signs." 
Respect Life Week, run by students on their own initiative, is one of those signs. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. llis column appears el,ery other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When I hear someone sigh. 'Life is hard.' I am always tempted to ask, 'Compared to what?,., 
Sydney J. Harris author, "Majority of One" 


OTHE Friday, October 8, 1999 BSERVER page 17 
We can learn a lot from 'Hairman' 
Each football season contains a lottery of friends who return for a gamfL Last weekend, I was lucky enough to avoid my accountant, but happy that I ran into 
my fresh­man year 
roommate. While all of my Notre Damf~ friends arc unique in certain 

ways, my roommatP Gary J. Caruso was one of three on my floor to 
Capitol
attnnd the 
Comments 
original Woodstock in 1969. Last week, :rn years later at Notre Dame, it felt like we had only been gone for sumnrnr vacation. 
Thirty years ago, VVoodstock was a happening that just hap­pened. Having grown up in suburban Pittsburgh, I did not live as dos•~ to the Nm,"· York location as mv roommate who livPd in Connecticut. So while I watched the television as the first man landed on the moon during the early sumnrnr. my 
roomma1<>-to-hc was making plans to attend this great out­door rock festival. 
Many have criticized this year's \iVoodstock riots. Much has b(wn said and writtPh by those vvho attended the first 
.. 
Woodstock, but nonP of them would desrrib•~ it quite as uniqunly as the roommate we called "llairman." You see, "Hairman," better known to his parnnts as ".Jim," was a rock aficionado. He followed bands across the country. lie vvould partake in illegal smoking sub­stances to Pnhancc his senses. Most importantly, he mnbodicd tlw sense of my g1mera tion by living and letting live. 
Seeing tlw llairman last wctik made m1~ recall one early morning during my first fall at NotrP Dame when he and I had stayed up late, sitting only in our underwear and talking about "things." Today it would be called "stuff," but the topics would b<~ identical. Do you say ... pop" or " socIa..," \\'I,· 1at soc1a. I group wen\ you considered a part of during high school, etc. On that particular night we talked music. which Ind to Woodstock. 
Jim was about 6-foot-:{ with long hair that curled into an Afro style that must have grown a foot and a half out on each side of his htHtd bv the end of our frnshman yr;ar. Ile wore glasses that put Coke bot­tles to shame. In fact, his sight was so bad that one day Im mistook the dorm maid who had a Brooklyn accent for one of our male classmates from New York. (The maid had a low voice due to smoking.) He never had to worry about pass­ing the physical for service in Vietnam. 
During a conversation with Jim. he would constantly stroke his hair, thus earning the name "llairman." While we sat around that one late night in our undies, he stroked true to 
form. However. his friends 
soon learned to ignore the dis­
traction and pay close attention· 
to the content of his state­
ments. That night I came away 
with an insight from our sec­
tion "Hairman" that helped me 
develop socially. 
Woodstock meant nothing to 
me, yet it was the height of 
Jim's teenage years. He smiled 
incessantly while he spoke of 
his experience at a festival con­
taining his heart's first love ­
music. It was not so much the 
stories of drugs, sex, mud and 
music that impressed me. It 
was his outlook on living with 
others and accepting others 
without judgment. And while 
he opposed the Vietnam War, 
he never said a personally 
derogatory comment about any 
individual who happened to 
support the war. 
My friend the IIairman now 
works with computers, sans ,music content of any kind or connP.ction. It is funny how 
even though Jim's technologi­
cal achievements can support 
his musical interests, he has 
not followed his first love. Life 
dictated that he be allowed to 
follow his heart's desire only 
during it's most idyllic period 
-the teenage years. But he 
taught me, by his exampl, with­
out ever knowing it, a'.bout 
accPpting others. 
To me, the lessons llairman taught me as a student are evi­dent during the first few weeks of school at Notrn Dame. Those early days of the school year are the most socially important for a student. The upperclass­men can attest to how friendly everyone is and then how quickly everyone falls into a rut that they follow the rest of the . semester, if not the entirn year. I often wondered what the year might be like if everyone con­ducted themselvPs like thev did those first few days of the · school year. 
I suggest that students take a fow momPnts each week to sit at a different place in the din­ing hall or to speak with some­one different in each class. You may be surprised at tlw end of the year at the number of friends you've made. 
It is an easy practice to begin, especially wlrnn you are having a bad hair day. Think of my former roommate, Hairman, and how you may be approach­ing someone who has such extraordinary expPriences sim­ilar to the headlines Woodstock did my freshman year -xperi­ences and lessons that will endure 30 years later at a foot­ball game. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame '73, is currently sen1i ng in PresidPnt Clinton ·s administra­tion as a CongrPssional and public affairs director and u·orked at the U.S. House of Representatives for 17 years. His column appears every other Friday, and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Support group needed for eating disorder victims 
In the past few weeks, a number of letters have been published regarding eating disor­ders. Thus far, though, almost every letter written on this topic has been published anony­mously. One of the most horribte aspects of an eating disorder is the loneliness, isolation and fear that the victim suffers. It is precisely these symptoms that contribute to the silent and faceless nature of the disease. 
I'd like to take this opportunity to break that silence. This is one of the scariest things I've ever done, but I foci compelled to let all those currently suffering know that they are not 
alone. furthermore, I want to take away the anonymity and facelessness of the disease. 
My own problem with anorexia began the summer between my freshman and sophomorn years of high school. Luckily, I never reached the advanced stages of the disease, but I know what it is to suffer from it. l used to fear that I would never again be able to live a normal life: I was eating only one piece of fruit, or occa­sionally a handful of crackers, each day. I stopped sleeping, averaging only two or three hours each night, and I was always cold. The scariest part, though, was that no one seemed to notice or care that my life was out of control. I used to pass out during ballet practices, I was often sick and I was an emotional wreck. Yet no one, my parents included, seemed to realize that I had stopped eating. I was 15 years old. l was one of the lucky ones and was able to escape from this disease on my own. To this day, my parents arc unaware of what I went through. 
I regained control of my life almost five years ago, but even now I deal with the effects of it. There are days when I have to force myself to eat, and there are times that I begin to think that life was better then. Sometimes I feel myself beginning to slip backwards, and it is scary. At times like these, it would be wonder­ful to be able to talk with others dealing with the same issues. 
I'd like to step forward and add my support to the members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community struggling with eating disor­ders. I agree that more support needs to be 
available for studf'nts suffering alone. Whil<> 
the counseling center does offer help, as point­ed out by Dr. Utz in his letter from Oct. 1, the options offernd there are limited. 
I would like to see a support group offen!d, not only for those currently dealing with eating disorders, but also for students in various stages of recovery. As with alcoholism, recov­ering from an eating disorder takes a very long time, and every step of the way can be a strug­gle. I believe that there should be a way for students in all stages of a disorder to gather and support one another. Knowing that others have gone before you and talking with them about the recovery process can make worlds of difference. 
Sarah Grunow 
Senior Walsh Hall Ocrober 6, 1999 
Irish Guard disappoints fans 
Hooray for the home team! The Irish football team won a thriller last weekend against Oklahoma. The worldwide PH image of the Fighting Irish is once-again secure as another exciting victory adds to the great history of Notre Dame football. 
Unfortunately, the famous Irish Guard lost a smaller image encounter with one alumnus, his 11·year-old son and his two adult guests. This incident won't make the record books. It adds nothing to Notre Dame's storied history. Sadly, it diminishes the University's image in the eyes of a young boy and a 50-year-old man, who, until Saturday. had never visited Notre Dame. .. 
We wP.re walking from Sacred Heart Basilica along a sidewalk that led to Bond Hall, the site of' the band's traditional pre-game concert. One of my friends was to my right, and my son and the other friend were behind me. Our focus was on the band, which had already assembled on Bond's steps. Suddenly, we heard a thunderous cry of "Move!" from the rear. Before I could react, I felt a bump against my left side. I turned and realized the Irish Guard was overrunning us! The bump was my 4-foot-9 son who had been grabbed by a guardsmen and shoved into me. After the assault, the guardsmen marched only an addi­ticmal six yards and disbanded to mingle with the crowd. When we collected ourselves, my son's eyes brimmed with tears and we three adults were seething. I then vigorously addressed one of the guards at random and was told, 'Tm not the one to take this up with, sir." 
Gentlemen of the guard, remPmber who you are and what you represent! You are not guarding anythiilg. You are ceremonial and should add class and dignity to the greatest college band in the world. I challenge you to discover less forceful ways to announce your presence to people in front of you who do not recognize you are behind them. 
My guest who had never seen Notre Dame before stated, "I will never view the Notre Dame band in the same light again." My son is not too crazy about the Irish Guard either. I wonder if the next incident will involve a child much smaller than my own. 
I sincerely hope not. 
Stephen Grohovsky 
Class of '75 Ocrober 4, 1999 
w E E K E N D 
O
THE page 18 BSERVER Friday, October 8, 1999 


us 
•• Ta
rom 
awn 'ti 
Tradition abounds during Notre Dame football weekends and tailgate 
By MOLLY McSHANE 
Scene Writer 

1, here is a crazy phenomenon that tran­··•· spires certain Saturdays in the fall here 
at Notre Dame. It starts early in the 
morning. Areas known usually as parking 
lots morph into some sort of glorified block party. Cars everywhere open their hatchbacks to become mini-picnics. Soon the crowds gather and the people swarm. The smells of burgers and beer· saturate the air. Random shouts of "Go Irish!t> can be heard every now and again, and there is a sur­prising amount of ridiculous windsocks being flown in the air. 
What is this twisted ritual? What is it all for? The answer is relatively simple: This is Notre Dame football. Despite what the ticket may read, the. real game starts at 8 a.m. sharp. 
What exactly is it about standing around in a parking lot for hours on end that gets hundreds of people up and out of bed Saturday mornings? The football team's record? Not likely. The beautiful weather? That doesn't seem right either. The free beer and open opportunity to consume it excessive­ly? The truth is near. . 
An average football Saturday for many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students may start some­thing like this: The alarm goes off at 8 a.m. After hitting the snooze button four or five times, the stu­dent gets up to feel the repercussions of the previ­ous night's endeavors. Having no time for regrets, said student steps out and heads over to the magi­cal, no, the mystical, Turtle Creek apartment com­plexes for kegs and eggs. 
Kegs and eggs is one among many traditions upheld here at Notre Dame. Not just a catchy name, some hosts do in fact offer eggs to their guests, as well as beercakes and other popular breakfast items. Even so, although the presence of eggs at these get-togethers is sometimes overlooked, the probability of there being a keg is pretty high. 
Walking down any given alley at Turtle Creek, one may see students playing drinking games such as cups, or doing keg stands, all to the beat of the Victory March being played on a nearby stereo. What better way to end a hangover and pump up team spirit than to get drunk once again? 
"Only at Notre Dame," said senior Katy Fallon, "would people get up at the crack of dawn so they can puke before high noon." · 
Not everyone saves the post-consumption activity for before the game. Arriving at the Michigan State game, a young man (one can only assume that he was a freshman) was walking through the stadium with the help of two of his friends. It did not take long for onlookers to realize why he required such assistance. For as it happened, he vomited not once, not twice, but three times in the course of 20 feet. Seemingly unfazed, he continued his journey to the nearest bathroom. The rest were left dumbfounded and, admittedly, slightly amused as one by one, innocent bystanders proceeded to walk through the mess. 
"It was disgusting," said prospective student Laura Kirkvold, who witnessed the event. "I would be so embarrassed." May it also be noted that one girl did in fact slip and fall in this young man's lunch. 
How was it that this boy became so intoxicated before 2 p.m.? It used to be that alcohol was some­thing kept very hush-hush, and those "bad" enough 

MARY CALASH/fhe Observer 
to drink it underage did so late at night so they ~ wouldn't be caught. But it seems today that getting trashed mid-day is part of the football experience. And it isn't just students, either. 
The first tailgating Irish fan interviewed for the purpose of this article was a grown man who insist­ed that his name was Sammy Schnapps Jr. Schnapps had driven an hour and a half from his hometown in Michigan for every Notre Dame home football game for the past 17-20 years. 
He said that at each game, he and his friends host 
"Only at Notre Dame would people get up at the crac 
Katy Fall< senior 

Whether It Is soda or beer, tailgating requires some kind of beverage to wash down the meaty pleasures of the barbeque. , 
Tailgating Is an activity for Irish fans of all ages, even wee kid} 
w E E K E N D 
O
THE 

Friday, October 8, 1999 BSERVER page 19 

• 


~rs across South Bend use ND football to have some fun in the· a. m. 
a tailgate with beers, brats and their trademark half-pints of peppermint schnapps. "It's a part of the game," said Schnapps. "We have a great time doing it." 
No one would question that Schnapps was having a great time supporting the Irish as he stood there conversing with friends. But perhaps one could question whether or not he made it to the actual game and/or remained conscious the rest of the day. This type of alcohol-induced team spirit can be found at many pre-game tailgates, but not all. 
:k ofdawn so they can puke before high noon.,. 
[)fl 

awa 
Satur 
a 
The next group of Irish fans interviewed hap­pened to be the friends and family of Ed Lawton, the dentist of the Fighting Irish. Lawton has been hosting tailgB:tes for the past 20-some years. 
"It's about camaraderie," said Lawton. "Two hun­dred of our closest friends come by." 
Looking around the tailgater, one could see older people everywhere mingling, eating and talking about the upcoming game. The team spirit seemed genuine here, and after speaking with Lawton for some time, this was proven to be true. 
The following tailgater held an even mix of stu­dents and parents. Hosted by Annie Cooley and her husband Doug, it was the happening place to be if' you like M&M's and talking to parents. The Cooleys are the parents of senior Dan, and they have been coming to every home game this year to support their son in his position as second manager of the football team. 
"It's a good time to get together with family, friends and students' friends," said Mr. Cooley. "We can get to know [the students' friends] on a person­al basis as well." 
Not many people were walking away from the Cooley tailgate slurring their words or looking to get sick in the middle of a crowded stadium, although many did enjoy a beer or two among friends. The outcome of any given tailgater can usu­ally be attributed to the personalities of those pre­sent. Certain types of parents react well to their children being publicly intoxicated, while others do not take it so well. Certain types of students are scared of parents, while others could care less. It is just as easy to enjoy a nice pregame party without turning into the stereotypical drunken Irish fan, as it is to embody this persona wholeheartedly. 
Still, there are those who veto tailgating all 
together. Many justify this behavior with the rea­soning that they "just can't drink like that so early in the morning," while others would rather just sleep. 
Some are completely against the entire idea of tailgating and are sick of everyone pestering them to go out and participate. Some people don't under­stand the point of standing around for a few hours when it is expected that they should stand through­out the entire game. 
True enough, the four-hour game is hard work for students showing their spirit in the student section. Few will openly admit it, but there are plenty out there who spend a good portion of the game fanta­sizing about how great it would be to sit down, even for just a second. There has even been rumor of students pretending to tie their shoes just to spend a minute off their aching feet. So it is understand­able that there are some students who choose to sleep in and rest as long as possible for the grueling event. 
It is sometimes in students' best interest to get some sleep, seeing as how sleep is often times hard to come by in college. Besides, all too many of those who claim that they pre-party to get revved up for the game end up passing out long before kick off. If this is the case, what is the point of claiming that 9 
a.m. keg stands are for team spirit? · 
So, as yet another football Saturday approaches, it is time to make some decisions. Can you spare the sleep? Can you spare the brain cells? Are your par­ents going to be in town? 
Take all of this and more into consideration when planning your day. Football weekends at Notre Dame are hard work, but when executed correctly, they prove to be worth the effort. So good luck and please, watch your step in the stadium. 

MARY CALASI-VThe Observer A necessity at any tailgate, the barbeque pit provides fans with juicy brats and burgers, and fills the morn­Ing air with the aroma of crisp meat and burning charcoal. 
• 
a a a 
a a a a a

=• -a ¦ 
Friday, October 8, 1999
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 

AMERICAN LEAGUE DIVISIONAL SERIES 
Mattingly returns 
Pettitte shuts down Texas 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
This is the reason Joe Torre insisted the New York Yankees keep Andy Pettitte. 
Pettitte, once again proving he's at his best in the biggest games, took his turn at shut­ting down Texas as the Yankees beat the Rangers 3-1 Thursday night for a 2-0 lend in their AL division series. 
Juan Gonzalez homered in the fourth, ending the Rangers' postseason scoreless streak at 25 innings. But that was all they managed in 7 1-3 innings against Pettitte, the left-hander New York nearly dealt away at the July 31 trading deadline. 
Ricky Ledee's tiebreaking double in the seventh off loser Hick Helling and a bases­loaded walk to pinch-hitter Jim Leyritz in the eighth put the Yankees one win away from their second consecutive 3-0 sweep of Texas in the opening round of the playoffs. 
The World Series champions will try to finish it Saturday night at Texas when Roger Clemens pitches against Esteban Loaiza. 
No surprise, it was Pettitte who put them in position to advance to the next round. 
Pettitte almost missed out on this party when the Yankees came close to trading him to Philadelphia more than two months ago. At the time. Pcttitte was struggling at 7-8 and seemed distracted, possi­bly by his father's heart prob­lems back in Texas. 
But Torre, with help from general. manager Brian Cashman, convinced owner George Steinbrenner not to make the deal. Steinbrenner agreed, and challenged Pettitte to "show what kind of man he is." 
Ever since, Pettitte backed up his manager's confidence. And against Texas, he looked every bit as focused as the pitcher who won the clinching Game 4 of last year's World Series and the crucial Game 5 of the 1996 Series against Atlanta. 
Pettittc gave up one run and seven hits in 7 1-3 innings, walking none and striking out five. 
Every Yankees infielder rushed to the mound to offer pats of congratulations to Pettitte when Torre brought in reliever Jeff Nelson. Pettitte received a standing ovation from the crowd of 57,485 -a stark contrast to the rude treatment the fans gave him earlier this year -and he responded with an enthusiastic wave ofhis cap. 
Nelson struck out Ivan Hodriguez and Gonzalez, and Mariano Hivera pitched the ninth for a save. 
Scott Brosius, MVP of the ­1998 World Series. hit a tying double in the fifth for his first hit of his postseason. 
New York got the one more run it needed in the seventh after Tino Martinez led off with a walk and took third on Chili Davis' single. Ledee, a World Series hero last year but sent to the minors early this season, delivered a fly-ball double to right-center for a 2-1 lead. 
Lcyritz drew his bases­loaded walk in the eighth from Mike Venafro. 
After being blanked 8-0 in Game 1, the Hangers reward­ed Gonzalez with exuberant high-fives after he reprised his role as a Yank1:~es-killer with a line-drive homer into the left-field stands in the fourth. 
to toss first pitch 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Don Mattingly is finally ready to take his place with other great former New York Yankees. 
. Mattingly mostly has.kept his distance from the Yankees since he retired following the 1995 season. Now the former first baseman is ready to be an active member of Yankees alumni. 
Mattingly began by throwing out the first pitch Thursday night before NPw York's playoff game against the Texas Rangers. He threw the pitch to former teammate Jim Leyritz and received a thunderous ova­tion from the crowd as he walked off the field. 
"It's a great honor to be asked to do this," Mattingly said before taking the field. "I've seen a lot of guys throw out the first pitch, from Mr. DiMaggio to Yogi Berra. It's a little uncomfortable being that guy." 
While many fans adore Mattingly as much as Yogi 
Berra and the late Joe DiMaggio, he didn't win pen­nants like they did. 
Mattingly began his career in 1982 -just one year after the Yankees made the World Series -and retired after a wild-card berth in 1995. 
In between New York didn't make the playoffs, its longest _stretch of non-postseason years since their first AL pennant in 1921. 
Since Mattingly's retirement, the Yankees have won two World Series championships, also made the playoffs on 1997 and won the AL East this sea­son. 
"The toughest year was '96," Mattingly said of the team's first championship after he retired. "Your first year out and the team you played on and all the guys do it. It has gotten easier and easier. Now I have become more of a fan who admires what this team has done." 
Mattingly was the most recent Yankees captain. There has been speculation that shortstop Derek Jeter could be the next. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for ne~t-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
EARN FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!!  Beautiful Home. 5 bedrooms. two  Phone Cards, 669 min/$20  FOR SALE  CHILD CARE OPENINGS IN MY  
SPRING BREAK 2000  bathrooms. Brand new stove, refrig­ 243-9361 or 258-4805  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  HOME.  
NOTICES  *CANCUN*  *JAMAICA*  erator, dishwasher, washer and  CALL 271-9412  NEAR ND.  233-2704.  
For 10 years Class Travel  dryer. Alarm. Attached garage.  Beautiful brass bed.queen size,with  
International (CTI) has distin­ Fenced yard. Immaculate condition.  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  SPRING BREAK 2000  To the woman who returned  
,,.  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY  guished itself as the most reliable student event and marketing orga­nization in North America  675.0776. 8 bedroom house. 2 baths.  frame.New.never used.still iri plas­tic.$235 219-862-2082  'THE MILLENNIUM" A NEW DECADE ...NCE IN TRAV­EL.FREE TRIPS.FREE  my lost purse Tues in OShag THANK YOU for being so kind and honest! AJH  
www .CopyShopND.com  Motivated Reps can go on Spring  Completely renovated. ND Ave.  MAC 520 Powerbook-Y2K compli­ MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI  
Store HoursMon-Thur: 7:30am­ Break FREE & earn over  675.0776  ant-$350.  Stylewriter printer $75.  DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN  Welcome back to campus, my  
Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  $$$$$  $10,000!  $$$$$  Soth seldom used.  287-7928  UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS  favorite little lawyer-to-be. Hope we  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight  Contact Us today for details·, 800/328-1509  5/6 BDRM HOMES."00·01YR 272· 6551  Computer parts.  AND FREE MEALS! 1800-426-7710  have a great weekend and that we esche.w evil.  
www.classtravelintl.com  Computer service.  WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM  
LOST & FOUND  Free One Bedrbom Apartment in Historic Home 1.5 miles from  6BDRMS150 person.272-6306 Sublet: Roomy one bedroom  Fast, friendly, cheap. 220-7633 ·220-7734. www.247solution.com  BIG !RISH CATHOLIC FAMILY!NEED 16 G.A. TIX FOR  -Eileen G. Happy B-Day love A  
Campus. A family with three chil­ Campus View apartment: $385.00  use GAME!CALL DAVE@ 773­ 
FOUND:  dren seeks fun.energetic.outstand­ monthly. Call Stacy at Campus  85 OLDS CUTLASS GOOD LOCAL  281-7690 OR 610-971-2295  gagnon good luck this weekend.  
CHANGE PURSE ON SMC CAM·  ing student or graduate to live in  View  or John Hill at 683-5699  TRANSPORTATION  WITH  ANY  TIX.THANKS.  remember ... balance.  
PUS ON MONDAY, 10/4. CALL  charming apartment for FREE in  days; 616/782-3314.  $750OBO  
631-5873 TO IDENTIFY.  exchange for mutually agreed upon  675-9735  WANTED:USCTIX 247-1659  oh. and probably don't drink too  
babysitting responsibilities that  3 BDRM DUPLEX  much.  
Silver and Gold Crucifix  include some venings,overnights.as  REMODELED  89 Plymouth, Sundance  ND MOM NEEDS 11 ARIZ. STATE  
found between Flanner and Fire Station. Call 1-5151 to claim.  well as travel Send cover letter.resume and references to  501 EDDY ST. 1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.  Milage 96 k, excelent conditions, $1650 or best  GA'S. PLEAS!= CALL 1-800-447-1200, THEN  Good luck Janel and Aquabelles today... make a splash!  
Nanny Search,P.O.Box 652,Notre  APPLIANCES, W/D.  offer. 277-3254  PRESS 2-2242. CALL WILL BE  -Noreen  
Dame.IN 46556.  273-8332  RETURNED ASAP.  
WANTED DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL  Two ND junior women have College Park I lease for 2000-2001 and are seeking two apartment mates.For  ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  ARA PARSEGHIAN CHARITY SALE & AUCTION 1000 N.D. ITEMS PLUS OTHER GREAT SPORTS  For SALE 2 tixs all games 272· 6306  Mark... sorry #8 wasn't spectacular. But me, {and the ugly brown dress) will meet you on the dance floor in CT.  
YEAR1 $1200 TO $2000 THIS MONTH. Part time 4 to 6 hours per week. Call 24 hrs (219) 239-6709  more information contact x0931 or x4071. The Early Childhood Development  NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NOW OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  COLLECTIBLES OCT 15 -9AM-9PM LOGAN CENTER  Will trade 2 ASU or Navy o~ BC GA's for 2 USC. Will sell Tenn/ASU/Navy/BC tix. 607-336-7218  Kelly, you made my work worth­while. Thanks for keeping me com­pany tonight. Next time we'll put on  
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to  Center at Notre Dame, located at 18680 Bulla Road,is looking for col­ Reserve for the 2000 Football Season & Special Occasions,  1235 N. EDDY BENEFITING ARA'S FOUNDA­ 2 ARIZONA GA'S FOR SALE.  the pearl jam.  
I  adopt Will provide a lifetime of laughter,love,devotion and opportu­nities.  lege students to work part time or full time during Fall break week, 10/18-22/99. If you are interested in  Bedroom Suite w/Bath. Private Entry, 760 SF New Construction above Garage. Just 30 min. from  TION & THE LOGAN CENTER. CALL LAWRENCE FOR MORE INFO, RAFFLE TICKETS & LIST  CALL KRISTEN@ 413-567-0841. FOR SALE ND FOOTBALL TICK­ Sarah, keep your head up. It can only get better from here.  
800-484-4699 code 0019 TO OUR 4 AM INQUIRER: ALL  more information,please contact Thayer Kramer.Program Director.at  ND, 1 mi. off US 31S, in county. 219-291-3771.  OF AUTOGRAPH GUESTS. 219-257-0039  ETS. ASU $47.50 ea. CALL 289­8048.  And why can it only get better you ask? because 90210 will be back a  
INFO KEPT IN TOTAL CONFI­DENCE. PLEASE CALL BACK ANYTlME. OUR PRAYERS ARE WITH YOU.  631-3344 for more information.A great way to earn extra money while playing with and assisting young children.  email: moby77@tir.com HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS  TICKETS  SELLING 2 GA'S TO AZ & USC. 243-2770.  week from Wednesday. Mountain Top, PA look out, here comes a 90210 fan like you've never seen before.  
AVAILABLE 5,6,7,8 & 10-BDRM  USC GA Tickets  For Sale  
f"AEE TRIPS AND CASH!!! SPRING BREAK 2000  FOR RENT  HOUSES FOR THE '00-01 SCHOOL YEAR. ONLY 15 LEFT. CALL  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT• BALL TICKETS 271-1526  (617)868-2071 For Sale: 2 ASU lix face value  Call  Stacey, how's that endless desig­nated driving going? you back yet?  
StudentCity.com is looking for Highly Motivated Students to pro­mote Spring Break 2000! · Organize a small group and travel FREE!!Top campus reps can earn a Free Trip & over $10.000!Choose Cancun, Jamaica or Nassau! Book Trips On-Line. Log In and win FREE stuff. Sign Up Now On Line! www.StudentCity.com or 800/293-1443  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ 232-2595 THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.  274-1501 OR 234-2436, ASK FOR KRAMER FOR SHOWING. FOR SALE Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $2791 Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida 129!springbreaktravel.com  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS 277-6619 FOR SALE ASU tix. FACE VALUE AM • 232-2378 PM • 288-2726 ND football tix for sale. AM -232-2378  Colleen 4-2244 PERSONAL FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631·FAX1 FAX IT FAST!!!  Alex, bust out that Mambo Number Five LOUD!!! if you need some louder speakers, it can be arranged Erin, thanks for keeping me compa­ny on sunday, i think i'd have fallen asleep on the road without ya. Austin, good luck in your NCAA debut today, don't feel the pres­sure.. its not like you'll only have one college debut ever or anything.  
Browse icpt.com for Springbreak "2000". ALL destinations offered.Trip Participants.Student Orgs & Campus Sales Reps want­ed Fabulous parties.hotels &  5 Rooms with private baths, $80­$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­800-418-9487. 3,4 & 5 bdrm homes. Tall ceilings,  1 -800-678-6386 FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 FOR SALE  PM -288-2726 I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.2726551 BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT­ It's live! It's rock & rolll Come see Art & the Artichokes  Kel, you thought I was done with you? never... Thanks for waking me up this morning, and lets have some fun later on today. I miss you already.  
prices.Call Inter-Campus 800-327­6013  wash/dry, walk to campus. call for more info. 289-4365  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL271-9412  BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  This Friday, 10pm at Heartland  One last word that makes every­thing alright: Dylan  

Friday, October 8, 1999 page 21
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


' •• • •.:.~( •-. • ~.9,_:~ •i_·, ~•'<!~~:~":¥f(:ff••·:~h'-1,,i •· . . . ' 
j ~ 
:-,,,.. 
:~ ~­
, 'i ..,. 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 

Arizona State Football Weekend October 9-10, 1999 
Saturday Vigil Masses _ 
Basilica 30 m.inutes after gallle 
Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
.,,
Sacred Heart 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:30 & 11:00 am 

f ­
I 
I 
\ 
I 
' ~ \ 
t 
t 
l \ 
', 
' 
'i 
\ 
\ 
\ 
<' \ 
'> 
l ~ 
\ 
if 
.,...,.,______,________________• 2--,..-...
..-...,.--•a---..-.--..•¦a ...•---•a.. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
BOXING 
Ali makes professional debut 
. Muhammad Ali's daughter confident about match against Fowler 
Associated Press 
VEHONA, N.Y. 
She's as tall as a tree and fit as can be; she plans to float like a butterfly and sting like Ali. 
Laila Ali, the second­youngest of Muhammad Ali's nine children, will make her professional boxing debut at Turning Stone Casino on Friday night, and she promised to make the sweet science a sour time for her opponent, April Fowler. 
"I'm going to knock her out," Laila said Thursday, her infectious smile lighting up a room full of microphones and cameras. "I'm coming to knock somebody out, not just to win. Tomorrow is going to be a very exciting day for me." 
And, despite the calm facade she displayed, a nerve­racking one. 
."It's a positive nervous energy," the 5-foot-10, 168­pounder. "If I wasn't nervous, I think somethi·ng would be wrong." 
The 27-year-old Fowler, who lost her first and only professional bout in March 1998, came dressed in black. If she was nervous, she easily hid any anxiety behind a pair 
of dark sunglasses. 
"That's just a name to me," said the 5-foot-6 native of Michigan City, Ind., who weighed in at just under 164 pounds. "She's never been in the ring. I'm not getting in the ring with her father, I'm get­ting in the ring with her." 
"The pressure's not on me. I've got nothing to prove. Been there, done that," Fowler said. 'Tm just here to do what I've got to do and what I've been trained to do, and when the bell rings we'll see what happens." 
The fight will be held in a 2,600-seat auditorium, and 600 tickets wr\re still available late Thursday. Providing room for the media promised to be more of a challenge than 

"Need insurance for your wheels?" 
, ce companyAllstate \nsuran campus Near Notre o~me 
·\ 1930 E.ast Ediso~ 46617 south Bend, \nd1ana
L (
2~~~9-11~99~3~----~ 
Being in good hands is the only place to be:" 
attaining a sellout. 
Although the bout will not be televised or videotaped ­Laila's wish to relieve some of that pressure -promoter Mike Acri said about 90 jour­nalists from faraway places such as France, Germany, Italy, Sweden, Holland, Brazil. and Japan will be there to record the moment. 
The significance of the moment was not lost on the headliner of Friday's seven­bout card. 
"I know you guys are not here for me," said Donovan "Razor" Ruddock, who will fight journeyman Jose Ribalta in a 10-round bout as he con­tinucs his comeback. "She's taking all my press." 
Laila said her mother, Veronica, the third of Muhammad Ali's four wives, would be there, but she was 
not sure whether Ali would. 
"I would like my father to be here, but it goes two ways," said Laila, who operates a nail salon in Los Angeles in her spare time. "Even though he's my dad and he's around me and my boxing career, it makes me nervous because he is the greatest and I feel like I can't do things wrong." 
That both of her parents woren't thrilled with her deci­sion to box was not an issue. 
'Tm totally fine with the fact that he doesn't really want me to box," said Laila, who will tower over Fowler in their four-round bout. "He'd ra1her me just go to school like I was going to. He doesn't want me to get hurt, but he never once told me not to box. I think my confidence will increase when I win tomorrow. I'm as com­fortable as I can be." 
a..•••••--..•--••2111.•---•••••¦.. 
Friday, October 8, 1999 
NHL 
Jagr leads Penguins in win over Devils 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
Jaromir Jagr had the go­ahead goal and two assists and the Pittsburgh Penguins gave Mario Lemieux his first win as an owner, defeating New Jersey 7-5 on Thursday night in a game that featured the ejection of Devils goal­tender Martin Brodeur. 
The game was the first between th teams since an injured Jagr rallied the hank­ru ptcy ridden Penguins to a first-round playoff victory over the Devils in seven games. 
While this game didn't have playoff intensity, it was nasty. Brodeur made the nastiest play, whacking the pesky Matthew Barnaby low on the back of his legs at 14:32 of the first period with the Penguins leading 3-1 on three goals by Aleksey Moroznv, his first career hat trick. 
Heferee Paul Stewart gave the usually mild-mannered Brodeur a match penalty for intent to injure. It does not carry an automatic suspension but Colin Campbell will hold­ing a hearing to review the action. 
Barnaby had to be helped off the ic·c but returned for the final two periods. 
The Penguins also played without their No. 1 goal­tender. Tom Barrasso left early in the first period and was replaced by Peter Skudra, who made 18 saves. 
ATTENTION ALUMNI OF 
The National Young Leaders Conference, Washington, DC -or-The National Youth Leadership Forums on Law, 1Vledici11e or Defense 
Ifyou are a first or second year student, there is a prestigious on-~ campus leadership opportunity we have been asked to discuss vvith 
you. 
Please call Toll Free at 1-877-282-4952 no later than October 15, 1999 and ask to speak with one ofthe program co-founders: Barbara or Richard 
--·-·----------------------~--------------------------, 


0»1/!__US. COl11 
-. 
Full service, on-line banking designed especially for college students!
lnte~net banking ... 
Checking account 
' ' . 
Whether you're on a MAC or a PC, our easy-to­
l 
use interface makes banking on the Internet a
Overdraft protection 
snap. Visit us online at www.bankoncampus.com to find out how you can benefit from this
ATM /\Debit card· . 
. \ innovative account 
Questions? Call us at 258-3150, or e-mail us at BankOnCarnpus@1st source.com. 
I 

Member FDIC 
L__ _________________________________________________j 


Friday, October 8, 1999 page 23
The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Baltimore bags Miller after two years 
Associated Press 
BALTIMOHE 
The Baltimore Orioles on Thursday got rid of their fourth manager in six years, firing Ray Miller after his sec­ond straight losing season. 
Miller took over the team in November 1997 after owner Peter Angelos forced the resignation of Davey Johnson, who twice took the Orioles to the AL championship series but lost both times. 
Under Miller, the team's for­mer pitching coach, the Orioles went 79-83 in 1998, then slumped to 78-84 this year despite a $ 78.5 million op1rning-day payroll, third­highest in baseball behind the New York Yankees and Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Miller, 54, did not return phone calls Thursday. But dur­ing thP final weekend of' the regular season he cited poor pitching for the team's lack of success and said he was confi­dent he made the correct moves in all but a half-dozen games. 
"There were six games that I slept very poorly on, and in three of those six l probably did the right thing," he said. 
Angelos fired Johnny Oates after the 1994 season and hired former pitching coach Phil Hegan, who lasted one year. 
There was speculation at the team offices that Orioles gen­eral manager Frank \,Yren also 
"It's going to be interesting to see who they bring in. Sometimes a change is good, and sometimes the grass isn't always greener on the other side ofthe fence." 
Mike Bordick Orioles shortstop 
will be fired or forced to resign, but no announcement was made. Wren, who took the job last October, declined com­ment. 
Angelos figured Miller would be the perfect fit, but two years later the owner once again finds himself looking for a new manager. 
.. Ray Miller is a gentleman and a line baseball man and I appreciate his efforts and the contributions he has made over the years to the Orioles organization," Angelos said in a statement. "My best wishes go out to him in his future endeavors." 
In a letter to Miller, Angelos lauded Miller's contributions to the 1997 team. 
But 1998 and 1999 were another story. The Orioles never recovered from a 4-14 start start and were 36-51 record at the All-Star break. A 13-game winning streak in September only served to help them finish fourth, ahead of last-place Tampa Bay. 
"I feel bad for Ray," Orioles shortstop Mike Bordick said. "He obviously wasn't the one throwing the ball or hitting the ball. But we just didn't have the success we wanted." 
Former Milwaukee Brewers manager Phil Garner is consid­ered to be the leading candi­date to replace Miller. Garner was in the midst of his seventh straight losing season when he was fired by the Brewers in August, but he didn't have much talent to work with at the low-budget Brewers. 
Tom Trebelhorn, the Orioles' director of player development and former manager of the ­Brewers and Chicago Cubs, also is a possibility. So is for­mer Oriole Don Baylor, who managed the Colorado Rockies from 1993-98 and Jim Riggleman, fired by the Chicago Cubs on Monday. 
"It's going to be interesting to see who they bring in," Bordick said. "Sometimes a change is•good, and sometimes the grass isn't always greener on the other side of the fence." 
This is the second time that Miller failed to field a winner as a major league manager. lie went 50-50 with lhe Minnesota Twins in the second half of the 1985 season and was fired in September 1986, with the team struggling at 59­70. 
Minnesota, which was in the midst of a rebuilding program, then flourished under Tom Kelly and a staff comprised primarily of Miller's assistants. 
NBA 
Sprewell fails to show at training camp 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, S.C. 
Memo to Latrell Sprewell: Pick up the phone and call the office. They're worried about you. 
Sprewell was still a no-show this afternoon on Day 4 of the . New York Knicks' training camp. On Wednesday he flew from California to Milwaukee but failed to call the team. 
His agent had told general manager Scott Layden that Sprewell would arrive by this morning. 
"I think anybody wants to be informed. It's a basic thing," coach Jeff Van Gundy said. "But it's not a distrac­tion. This, too, will pass. We'll be on to another controversy in another few days." 
The Knicks gave Sprewell permission to miss the start of camp because of a civil trial in Martinez, Calif., stemming from a traffic accident that Sprewell admittedly caused. 
At first, Sprewell said he'd join the Knicks after closing arguments, which were Monday. Then he said he wanted to wait for a verdict, which came Tuesday. 
Next came the news that he had flown home to Milwaukee and still wasn't giving the Knicks a firm arrival time. 
"We've gotten different information from the different 
attorneys, so that part has been frustrating," Layden said. "That's one of the rea­sons I would like to get him here and talk to him face to face." 
Sprewell could be fined $2,500 for his first two missed practices, and $5,000 for any missed practices thereafter. Layden would not comment on whether the Knicks would fine Sprewell, saying he wanted to speak to the player first. 
His teammates made light of the matter. with Larry Johnson pointing out that Sprewell is among the fittest athletes in the league. 
"Shape-wise, Spree usually keeps himself in pretty good condition," Johnson said. "He could show up to days late and be in better condition than me and some the guys already here." · 
Van Gundy also tried to shrug it off. 
'Tm not going to sit here and s.ell the notion that because he missed my first two practices he's doomed to fail this year," Van Gundy said. "But at the same time. everyone has a responsibility to their team­mates, coaches and team to work together. You can't have people missing practice, but the only reason there's any indecisiveness is because I haven't spoken to him." 


Be a Part of the lareest student run fundraiser. All entries must be submitted to the student Activities office by Oct 29th. AU desiens become the PrPertv of ''The Shirt.. Project. 
• Designs must include color coPv Cash Prize will be eiven after winnine desien is
• 
chosen No navy blue shirt desif?ns Please
• 




=  w  ca  a  u  L  a  z  a  C  C  AVE&  a.  a  a  a  LIi r  
~  
page 24  The Observer . SPORTS  Friday, October 8, 1999  f,>.-­1  



NCAA FOOTBALL 
Warrick, Coles charged with theft 
Associated Press 
TALIAHASSEE, Fla. 
lleisman Trophy hopeful Peter Warrick was indefinitely suspended following his arrest today on charges he and a Florida State teammate were allowed to underpay for clothes at a department store by about $391. 
Warrick and Laveranues Coles, both Seminoles receivers, were charged with grand theft along with a Dillard's clerk, 19-year-old Rachel Myrtil. She was accused of letting the two players buy $412.38 worth of clothing for $21.40 on Sept. 29. 
An off-duty officer saw what happened through a surveil­lance camera, police said. 
Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said in a written state­ment that he was "terribly disappointed," and noted Warrick is on schedule to grad­uate. 
· "He came back for his senior season instead of going pro and he has been such a hard worker and good leader," Bowden said. "It makes this all the more disappointing." 
Florida State Athletics Director Dave Hart said Coles was kicked off the team 
Tuesday October 12, 1999 
7:30 p.m. 
Liffle Theatre 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's College Box Office 
284-4626 

LINCOLNWAY LAUNDRY & TANNING 2822 LINCOLNWAY E., MISHAWAKA 256-2070 
SAVE ... SAVE ... SAVE ... SAVE ... SAVE ... SAVE 
CHOOSE YOUR FAVORITE TANNING DEAL! 
• • •  $20 FOR 20 VISITS FOR 30 DAYS $2 TANNING EVER DAY WOLFE SYSTEM BULBS  
MANY MORE PACKAGES TO CHOOSE FROM, CALL STORE FOR DETAILS  
WE HONOR OUR COMPETITOR'S ADVERTISED PRICES FREE WASH CARD!  
•10% STUDENT DISCOUNT •10% SENIOR DISCOUNT  
FULL DROP-OFF SERVICE FREE PICK-UP FOR ORDERS OF 75# OR MORE  

"Peter Warrick has been a good citizen here prior to this. The door certainly is open for Peter to return.,, 
Dave Hart Florida State athletic director 
because he already was on pro­bation because of past prob­lems, legal and academic. 
Warrick will be allowed to practice with the team but can­not play at least until his case is resolved under school policy. He will miss top-ranked Florida State's game against Miami on Saturday and possibly the rest of the season. 
"Peter Warrick has been a good citizen here prior to this," Hart said. "The door certainly is open for Peter to return." 
Investigators met with the players at Coles' apartment and they turned over the clothing, police said. Coles had bought a hat, three shirts and a pair of jeans; details of Warrick's pur­chase were not immediately disclosed. 
Coles and Warrick surren­dered at the Leon County Jail and were freed without bond, Assistant State Attorney Warren Goodwin said. Arrangements were being made for Mvrtil to surrender. 

Each co~ld face up to five years in prison if convicted, but they would probably get probation, Goodwin said. 
A first court appearance for the sole purpose of determining if they have legal representa­tion was set for Monday. 
\,Varrick, an All-American from Bradenton. has 36 catch­es for 508 yards and four touchdowns as a senior for the top-ranked Seminoles. 
Hart said he and coach Bobby Bowden each spoke privately with Warrick. 
"He is very remorseful," Hart said. "He expressed at great length his personal dis­appointment with affecting so many people with his poor decision." 
Hart said he also spoke to the team and that the players were stunned that Warrick and Coles had been charged with felonies. 
Earlier this week, the players said they were cooperating with investigators. 
embracing I.he season, 
while indulg111_!! in thL' kstivity ot the harvest. '/:"Sorins intrnd~ccs dining in the true spirit of Notre Dame. Presenting menus that complirnent the fall season 
~'. 
-,i,_, •. with the finest foods it has to offer. Be our guest 
'·. ,,·,;,.,.'JI:"
---~::-., __.... 
/.: at Sorins and cclchratc a change in dining. 
;.1Visit us within The Morris Inn. ~-, . 
:'·. I 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Mets, Cubs to open season in Tokyo 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Baseball finally made it offi­cial Thursday, announcing that the New York Mets and Chicago Cubs will play the first regular-season games outside of North America, opening next season in Tokyo. 
The two-game series will be in the Tokyo Dome, home of the Yomiuri Giants, on March 29 and 30. 
Both teams arc then off until April 4, when the Mets play their home opener against San Diego and the Cubs play in the St. Louis Cardinals' opener. 
As part of the trip, the Cubs will play exhibition games on March 27 at the Yomiuri Giants and the Seibu Lions the following day. The Mets will play at the Lions on March 27 and at the Giants the next day. 
Assuming financial projec­tions are met, each player on the trip gets about $25,000. 
This will mark the third time regular-season games are played outside the United States and Canada. 
New York and San Diego played a three•game series at Monterrey. Mexico, in 1997, and the Padres and Colorado Rockies opened the 1999 sea­son with a game at Monterrey. 
Baseball's first choice was to have the Mets and Cardinals open in Japan, but St. Louis declined. The Cubs agreed to the trip in mid-August, and details were worked out dur­ing the past two months. 
The players' association and the commissioner's office still must agree to roster sizes and waiver changes. 
Current rules call for teams to cut their active roster to 25 players by the first opener in thf~ major leagues. 
Saint Mats College 
O
NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
The Nat,on's Premier Catholic Women's College 
27TH ANNUAL 
LO·NDON SUMMER PROGRAM 
MAY 24TH -JUNE 19TH, 2000 

Travels in, Ireland, Scotland, England and France 
Courses offered in History, Art, Sociology. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 !\Iadeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 
e-mail: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu · Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4866 

-------..,______.......,_______._,_______,__._ ........ u-.--.a.....------•.---""""1111111&""""'11!!!&..............Iii•.11!1.l.Pll!II.--·------······........--.. .....---¦a.........1111122----••tJlll•~•a••·
... 
(. ', 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 8, 1999 
AMERICAN LEAGUE DIVISIONAL SERIES 
Thome, Baines slam Indians past Red Sox 
Associated Press 
CLEVEIAND 
By tlw time tlw Indians fin­islwd with Boston, tlw Hed Sox had much more than an aching back. 
Jim Thome hit a grand slam, Harold Baines added a three­run shot and Charles Nagy pitched seven solid innings Thursday. as Cleveland moved within a win of sweeping the AL division series from Boston with an 11-1 rout of the Hed Sox. 
The Indians, who were the first team in 49 years to score more than 1,000 runs during the regular season, looked for a while like they might try to match that figure Thursday. 
Cleveland capitalized on Bret Saberhagen's uncharacteristic wildness and scored 11 runs in a two-inning span to take a 2-0 lead in the best-of-5 series. 
The Hed Sox, who lost Pedro Martinez to a back injury in Game l, will turn to another Martinez. Pedro's brother, Ramon. to save their season in Game :{ Saturday at Fenway Park. Dave Burba, a postseason hero for the Indians pitching out of the bullpen last year, starts for Clrveland. 
The Indians, vvho had lost eight straight series openers before winning Wednesday night, have won five straight postseason games against the Red Sox. 
Pedro Martinez, who removed 
himself after four innings in Game 1, said the muscle strain in his back had improved. but that there was persistent pain and he planned to throw again on Saturday. 
Even if he can pitch again, it may be too late for the Red Sox, who dropped to 1-17 since Bill Buckner's infamous error in Game 6 of the 1986 World Series. 
Thome made history with his second career postseason grand slam, capping Cleveland's two­inning onslaught against Saberhagen and John vVasdin. His shot in the fourth off Wasdin 
gave Cleveland an 11 ~ 1 lead. 
Thome. who hit a grand slam 
last year in the AL champi­_onship series. has 14 career postseason homers. His two-run homer in Game l made it 2-2 in 
the sixth, and the Indians rallied 
to win in the bottom of the 
ninth. 
Nagy allowed one run and five 
hits in beating the Red Sox for 
the second straight time in the 
playoffs. He beat Boston in 
Game 3 of last year's division 
series. 
Saberhagen, who was on the 
disabled list three times this 
year, walked just 11 batters in 
119 innings this season. But he 
walked three in the third inning 
when the Indians set a division 
seri<~S record by scoring six 
times. 
Omar Vizquel hit a two-run 
triple. Roberto Alomar had a 
two-run double and Baines 
capped the inning with a three­
run shot to right-center. 
But Saberhagen, who didn't walk a batter in 13 starts and no more than one in 20 of 22, wasn't completely to blame. After Travis Fryman walked to open the inning, Sandy Alomar hit a slow grounder to shortstop that looked like a sure double play -both Fryman and Alomar wear knee braces. 
However, second baseman 
Jose Offerman's relay throw 
pullf~d Mike Stanley off the bag 
and the Indians were in busi­
ness. Kenny Lofton worked 
Saberhagen for a walk. and 
Vizquel followed with a triple to 
right. 
Alomar then ripped a double to the same spot, and with Manny Ramirez due up, the Jacobs Field crowd smelled blood. But Saberhagen got Ramirez on a fly ball before walking Thome. 
Baines then put the finishing touches on the Indians' biggest postseason inning with his 412­foot horner, the fifth of his career in the postseason. 
Offerman's two-out RBI single 
in the third gave the Red Sox a 
1-0 lead. 
ALL STADIUM SEATING • ALL DIGITAL SOUND 
SHOWPLACE 16 
Just West of Main St. on Chi ewa • 299-6063 Students and ~er.:iic:>~~. ~4~~~ ~.n)'.!im~ 
•s4.SO All Shows Before 6 pm • Advance Ticket Sales Available :J 0. 
All Times for October 8th-11th Sat., Sun & MON Matinees in (Brackets 
• Random Hearts (R) 
[12:45] 3:45 6:45 9:50 
[1:15] 4:15 7:15 10:20 ' American Beauty (R) r 112:501 3:50.6:40 9:20 [; [ I :30! 4:20 7: IO 10: JO 
~ Three King,; (R) ~ II: 10] 4: 10 6:50 9:40 
f 
r, II :50] 5:m 7:50 I0:25 
FMystery, Alao;ka IR) 
t II:40] 4:40 7:30 10:35 
• Elmo in Grouchland (G) 
[1:45] 3:55 5:45 
• Orfre Me Cr~· IPG-13) I12:30J 2:45 5:20 7:40 10:os 
Digital Digital 
Digital 
Digital Digital Digital 
Supen.1ar (PG-13) 
[ I :201 3:30 5:40 7:45 10:(X) 
Double Jeopardy (R) 
12:(X)j 4:30 7:20 9:45 
(2:50! 5:30 8:(X) 10:30 Blue Streak (PG-13) 
[2:20] 5: JO 8: 10 10:40 
Sixth Sense !PG-13) 
12: IOJ 4:50 7:25 9:55 
ForLoveoftheGame {PG-13) 
(1:00] 4:(X) 7:00 10:15 
Runaway Bride  (PG)  
[2:30] 5:40 8:20  
Stiwriata  (R)  

[3:00] 5:25 8: 15 I0:40 
Digital Digital  . '  
Digital Digital  

Digital .: 
' 
Digital '; Di0 ital ,'
e ;'. 
Martinez may start Sunday 
. Injured Red Sox ace could heal to pitch possible Game 5. 
Associated Press 
.. 
CLEVELAND 
Take your time, Pedro. You may luive the whole offsea­son to rest your injured back. 
Pedro Martinez, hurt in Wednesday night's opening­game loss to the Indians. plans to throw again Saturday. But unless his brother Hamon starts Boston to a win that day, the best-of­5 division series -and the Red Sox season -will be over. 
Since Pedro probably wouldn't pitch in Game 4, if there is one on Sunday. Boston would have to win then to force a fifth game in Cleveland on Monday night. If Pedro is healthy, he could pitch then. 
His absence and the Game 1 loss may have affected Game 2 starter Bret SabPrhagen . in Thursd'ay's 11-1 loss. 
"The situation that we 're in. down l-0 coming into this game, Pedro's arm is bother­ing him -didn't want to go horne 0-2,·• Saberhagen said. 
Physically, at least, base­ball's best pitcher felt a little better Thursday. 
"There is slight improve­ment tudav, but he does have persiste1{t pain," said Dr. William Morgan, one of Boston's team physicians. "His condition status is day to day." 
The Red Sox counted heavi­ly on Martinez, the shoo-in 

for the AL Cy Young award, to \Vin the opener. lie led 2-0 when he left aftnr being hurt in the fourth inning and Boston went on to lose 3-2. 
"We'vt~ never scheduled him or anticipated him to be available for Game 4, so it's not really an issue," general manager Dan Duquette said before Thursday's game. Manager Jimy Williams, though, didn't rule that out. 
Martinez was treated Thursdav with ultrasound and anti--inflammatory med­ication. 
"You have to let it calm down a couple of days and possibly let him play catch on Saturday," pitching coach Joe Kerrigan said. "That's the doctor's advice." 
Morgan said Martinez will start stretching Friday and be re-evaluated. 
"I have some improve­ment," Martinez said in a statement issw~d by the team. "I feel bfltter already. I rnally feel positive about it. Hight now I feel looser. In a fo\'v hours after treatment, I'm hoping to (Wen feel better." 
The Rt1d Sox hope hp's· right. Martinez was virtually unhittable late in the season 
Iii 
and finished with a 23-4 record, a major league best 
2.07 ERA and an AL-high 313 strikeouts. 
"You don't like to see one of your starters, premier starters, go down. but that is why you have a team," Williams said. "You havP other good pitchers. They have won games." 
But not nearly as many as Martinez. Saberhagen was second on the team with wins and he had only 10. 
Student Activities is hiring 
ND Express \Yorkers 
Shifts needed: Tuesdays & Thursdays 2pm-5:30pm 
Apply at 315 Lafortune. 
on't Miss I 
I 
October 14, 1999 11 a.m. -3 p.m. 
• 
••' 
.. 
•I 
1999 Midwest Association of Pre-Law Advisors (MAPLA) Caravan 
at 
The University of Notre Dame JACC--Concourse 1 r---------------------------I 
0 
1 BELOW ARE THE NAMES OF A FEW OF THE 1 : 100 LAW SCHOOLS SENDING REPRESENTATIVES : 
1 TO NOTRE DAME 1 
L 
I 1 Boston University · : Duke University 1 Indiana Universities 
0 I 
.a 
: Loyola Universities , New York University
i Ohio State University 1 Penn State-Dickinson : Saint Louis University 
"" 
1 Syracuse University ~ l Texas Wesleyan 
I 
I Chicago-Kent (IIT) 1 
Harvard Law School l 
Lewis & Clark 
1 
Michigan State University : Northeastern University 
1 
Oklahoma City : Pepperdine University 1 St. Mary's University-TX l Temple University 1 Thomas Jefferson l 
I Thomas M. Cooley Tulane Law School 1
c::: 
l Univ. at Akron Univ. of Buffalo :
ONLY $1 00 All Shows Befo,e 6 pm
. SCOTTSDALE 6 • Everyone • Everyday 
1 Univ. rJ CA-Berekety Univ. of CA-Davis 1
h
Scottsdale Mall• 299-6063 $1.50 All Evening Shows :f 6. 
I 1 Univ. at CA-Hastings Univ. of CA-Los Angeles 1 I 
C> : University of Chicago Univ. of Connecticut l 
, The Blair Witch Project • (R) l~pector Gadget (PG) 
1 University of Miami University of Kentucky 
. [2:00J 4:50 7: IO 10:00 
[ I :20J 4:30 6:40 8:50 
C> : University of Pittsburgh University of Texas-Austin : 1 
The Haunting (PG-13) Star Wars Episode I (PG) 
1 Univ. at Pennsylvania Valparaiszo University 1 
[1:10] 4:IO 6:50 9:30 
I 
: Univ. at Southern CA . Washington & Lee :
11 :CX)j 4:00 7:00 9:50 
1 Yale Law School Yeshiva University 1
.• Iron Giant (G) Rig Daddy (PG-13) 
s 
I ------------------------------------_J
II:301 4:20 6:30 8:40 [ I :40] 4:40 7:20 9:40 

Friday, October 8, 1999 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 27 
ljigher Learning (:-{Catholic Traditions
LU
l' \. :>:,;.
fe· 
_;J' 
_,(',: 
An Erasmus Institute conference celebrating the reopening of the Main Building at the University of Notre Dame 
October 13-14, 1999 
Mc Kenna Hall Auditorium University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 

Wednesday, October 13, 1999 3:45 p.m. Not All the Nations Furiously Rage Together 
8 a.m. Continental Breakfast 
Bruce Russett Dean Acheson Professor of
8:30 a.m. Welcome 
Internacional Relations and
Nathan Hatch 
Political Science Provost Yale University
University of Notre Dame . 

6:30 p.m. Reception and Dinner 
James Turner 
(Lower level of McKenna Hall ­
Director, Erasmus Institute 
.. 
must have ticket)
-~t~.. /·k~·-~ :~~rttYtc-:i~•,~-ti:.•.~·:·~~ 
University of Notre Dame 

Thursday, October 14, 1999
9 a.m. Catholic Universities: Dangers, Hopes, Choices 8 a.m. Continental Breakfast 
Alasdair MacIntyre Professor of Philosophy 8:30 a.m. "Art," Literature, Theology: Duke University Learning from Germany 
Nicholas Boyle 
10:45 a.m. Catholicism and Sociology: 
Head of Department of German 
Elective Affiaity o~ 
University of Cambridge 
Unholy Alliance? Alan Wolfe 10:15 a.m. Catholic Traditions and the Professor of Political Science Dilemmas of Universal Rights Director, Center for Religion Mary Ann Glendon 
and American Public Life Learned Hand Professor of Law Boston College Harvard University 
12:30 p.m. Lunch noon What Have We Learned? 
(Lower Level of McKenna Hall -Jean Bethke Elsluain muse have ticket) Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and 
2 p.m. Christian Faith in the Academy: 
Political Ethics 
the Role of Physics 
University of Chicago 
Rev. Dr. John Polkinghorne President Emeritus 1 p.m. Lunch Queens' College (Lower Level of Mc Kenna Hall -· University of Cambridge must have ticket) 
2:30 p.m. Tour of Main Building 
Iv1eet --McKenna Hall Lobby All are welcome to at tend 
All prese·ntations followed by open discussion 

,,... ­
The Erasmus Institute 
ERASMUS INSTITUTE
1124 flanner Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-5611 Phone: (219) 631-9346 
Fax: (219) 631-3585 Initial funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the 
.,,,. 
E-tnail: erasmus@nd.edu generosity of an anonymous donor, The Pe~ Charitable Web: www.nd.edu/--crasmus Trusts, and the University of Notre Dame. 



By KATIE MCVOY Sports Writer 
The Belles volleyball team will try to improve its MIAA record to 4-1 as it travels to Calvin College to take on the Knights at 7 p.m. Friday. 
"I think we have a very good chance of winning this weekend," senior Agnes Bill said. 
Saint Mary's comes into this Friday's game with a league record of 3-1. losing only to Hope College. 
The Belles made it to the semi-finals in last week­end's DePauw Tournament, going 2-2 for the tourney. 
Calvin has an overall record of 12-5 this season with a league record of 1-0. 
The Knights are currently ranked fourth in the Great Lakes Region. 
Calvin took second place with a 3-1 record at the Wittenberg Tournament last weekend. 
With both teams playing so well, this promises to be a close match. 
"The Calvin team has managed to find a way to be close in every contest," Calvin head coach Mary Schutten said. 
The key elements for the Belles this weekend will be focus and playing good · basics. 
"When we play consistent­ly," Saint Mary's head coach Randa Shields said. "We can beat any opponent. We win when everyone gives what they need to." 
"\VP still need to work on 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25.000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service: S2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six
.. 
Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
page 28 Friday, October 8, 1999
The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Lakers struggle with offense 
VOLLEYBALL 
Belles look to boost record against Knights 
serving for this upcoming weekend," Bill added. 
The freshmen members of the Saint Mary's team will continue to play an impor­tant role during this game. 
"All of three of the fresh­men are adapting more to the team," Bill said. "They all play a really big part right now." 
Freshman Emily Nihill has been a leading scorer and a big help on defense. 
During the DePauw tour­nament she led the team with 34 kills and 52 digs. 
MIAA First Team member Bill will help lead the team this weekend, along with seniors Jayne Ozbolt and Mary Rodovich. 
Calvin expects a strong Saint Mary's team, players said. . . 
"I expect that Saint Mary's will bring their usual strong attack and give us a very close match," Schutten said. "The Belles have been play­ing very well lately and they always play well against Calvin." 

$4.00 Students/Children/Seniors $6.50 Adult 
Stereo Surround Sound in all Theatres 
American Pie R 
12:55 3:10 5:25 7:40 10:05 
Bowfinger PG-13 
12:55 3:15 5:35 7:5510:10 
Double Jeopardy R 
ss 
1:05 4:10 7:15 9:45 
2:10 5:00 8:00 10:30 
Drive Me Crazy PG13 ss 
1 :00 3:15 5:35 7:50 10:00 
Elmo In Grouchland G 
1 :30 3:30 5:30 7:30 9:30 
For Love of the Game PG13 
12:so 3:so 7:oo· 9:ss· 
1:35 4:35 7:40 
Jakob the Liar PG-13 
1 :40 4:20 7:00 9:50 
Mystery Alaska 
R ss 
1:45 4:30 7:20 10:20 
Stigmata A 
1:10 3:35 7:05 9:35 
2:05 4:45 7:45 10:15 
Stir of Echoes R 
12:45 3:00 5:15 7:35 10:10 
The 13th Warrior R 
12:50 3:05 5:30 7:50 10:15 Three to Tango (Sneak Preview Sat only) 
7:00 9:55 "Replace For Love of the Game 
ro~rs TIMES ONlY Rl'JR DAY All'IANC( ncm !.I.US hAHlltcA? ACCISS!Bli tNO PASID " NO Sti'USA.YlRS 
Associated Press 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. 
Good thing Phil Jackson is patient, because the Los Angeles Lakers haven't yet found a rhythm in the new tri­angle offense. 
Other than a brief half-court scrimmage Wednesday night, the Lakcrs haven't really played any basketball three days into training camp. 
"They want to play, but we're not ready to let them play yet," Jackson said after Thursday morning's practice. "They're not up to that speed, they'll just form bad habits by playing right now." 
So instead they drill while Jackson looks for signs that the players know what they're doing. He said the guards and wing players are showing flick­ers of recognition about where they should be on the court. 
"Trying to recognize and try­ing to anticipate and having five guys in sync is real impor­tant for us," he said. "It was a 
"Right now everybody's kind oftense because we don't really know what to expect. " 
Derek Fisher Laker guard 
hard practice and a long prac­tice. They got fatigued out there." 
The team took Thursday night off and will resume two­a-days Friday. Their first pub­lic scrimmage is Sunday night on the UC Santa Barbara campus. 
"We probably could've gone into a scrimmage situation, but with our focus being on the small things and the details of the game.. we probably would've taken a step back­ward instead of continuing to stay on course," guard Derck Fisher said. 
Jackson singled out Fisher as one of the most vocal in prac­tice. 
"Right now everybody's kind of tense because we don't real­ly know what to expect," Fisher said. 'Tm feeling com­fortable out there and having fun and sometimes just trying to get guys to loosen up and just enjoy being here." 
Jackson has made no secret of his preference for bigger guards, which would seemingly make the 6-foot-1 Fisher and 6-foot Tyronn Lue nervous. 
"We'll be able to provide bet­ter defensive pressure as far as full court is concerned than some of the other guys we have playing guard positions," Fisher said of himself and Lue. 
Other than Kobe Bryant, Glen Hice and Shaquille O'Neal playing at least 30 minutes a game, Fisher doesn't think Jackson has decided who's going to play. 
"There'll be times where I'll play 30-plus minutes, there'll be times where I might play 18 minutes," he said. "It'll kind of be a game-to-game situation depending on matchups and how guys are playing." 

If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 


CAR TROUBLE??? call 
Peppers Imports 
287-4920 
Foreign and Domestic 
•ASE CERTIFIED 
•LOW TOWING RATES 
•FREE PICK UP AND DELIVERY 
•COMPLETE AUTO DETAILING 
Located at: 
774 Lincoln Way East 
South Bend 
Notl'ung be;tts our h1g, juicy Douhle Cheeseburger. It'~ got the great taste offlame hr01ling and has 75°/o more beef than McDonald's· Cheesehurger. 
(Price and partic1pat1on may vary.) 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 

It just tastes better. 
<r-19l"8 6u•90r K,ng Corporahon Burger King Corporahon 1s the excl"s"e licensee of lhe Bun Ha•ves logc, trademark McDonald·s ,s a regtslered trademark ot the McDonald s Corporation 

. Friday, October 8, 1999 
The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish look for fourth straight win in matchup with Friars 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sporrs Writer 
Tlw Notre Dame men's soc­cer team looks to exte1~d its winning streak to four tonight when they host Big East rival Providence in the first of Se VI' 11 CO 11 f'c re 11 (' P gam e S remaining on the sdwdulc. 
T lw I r is h bo o st e d t h e i r n'cord to 6-3 -1 vvi th a win over IUPUI on Tw•sday. 
Tlwy picked up the offensive tempo in their last three ganws -a good sign heading into a tough second half of' the season for a tPam that strug­
gled early on. 
With eight goals in three games, the Irish found some recent success in finishing their plays inside the box and plan to ride that wave of momentum into their matchup with the Friars. 
Offensively for the Irish, freshman Erich Braun leads tlw pack in scoring. 
NPtting five goals on the season, he is joinml by senior forward Hyan Cox as the team's two repeat goal-scor­ers. Braun earned Big East co­rookie of the week honors ear­lier this week for his offcmsive prowess. 
Senior forward Andrew Aris has also come up big for the Irish attack -with one goal and four assists. he has been instrumental in keeping the Irish in control of the ball. 
In the backfield, the Irish defense has been a consistent force throughout the squad's first 11 games. 
Anchored by senior goal­keeper Gerick Short, the stingy defense has only allowed 12 goals and led the team to five .shutout victories. Short, who earned his second Big East goalkeeper of the week honor earlier this week, enters i1:ito tonight's contest 
with a .807 save percentage and a .95 goals against aver­age. 
The Friars step on to Alumni Field with a 4-5-1 overall record. 
Ranked eighth in the Big East preseason poll, the Friars have a split conference record. 
At 3-3-0, the squad fell to powerhouse Connecticut, Pittsburgh and Rutgers. The Irish had a similar rate earlier this season when failed to pro­duce wins against both Connecticut and Pittsburgh. 
For Providence, Friar for­ward Kevin Jones proved to be the squad's spark on offense this season. 
In 10 games the junior tal­lied seven goals for two assist, making him the team's lead­ing scorer with 16 total points. 
The Irish will need to con­tain him, along with forward Keith Dorsey and midfielder Michael Eisenhut, who deliv­ered three goals apiece, in order to come out on top. 
Tonight's matchup with Providence ends Notre Dame's four-game homestand. The Irish are looking to finish the series with a win for a clean sweep before heading to Valpraiso next week. 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Saint Mary's runners aim to finish in top three 
By MOLLY MCVOY 
A~sisrant Spores Editor 
The cross country Belles are looking to run to a third-place or better finish in the Bnnedictine University 
Invitational today. 
,Z?~3/zr,!~ 


.. ===== ..
.IJlilltl,... • 
,,..¦"' 
4111,. 
"'11111 
The return of Melissa Goss. who is consistently their top finisher, adds to the excitement going into this meet. 
"I really think we can improve on our ninth-place fin­ish from last year," head coach Dave Barstis said. "That was a great finish because we ran 
against 27 teams." 
The invitational includes Division III . teams from lndiana, Ohio, Michigan and Illinois. 
Barstis hopes the team will continue their pack running style they have implemented all season. 

RECREATION CENTER OPEN UNTIL MIDNIGHT!!! 
fUNDAY-THURfDAY October 3rd -April 1st* 
*Whenever classes are in session 
"I would like to see a 30-sec­ond split between our first and last scorers again this week­end, and see all the runners finish close to each other," Barstis said. 
This pack running is a strate­gy Saint Mary's believes pro­vides both an advantage and support. 
"You get the support from your teammates [running closely together]," Goss said. "Its so nice knowing there is 
someone  there to keep you  
going."  
This is  one  of the largest  

meets Saint Mary's will com­pete in before the MIAA Championships on Oct. 30. Both Barstis and Goss have high expectations for the championships. 
"We've been missing two of our top runners at the last con­ference meets," Barstis said. "I think we can surprise a few teams at the championships." 
Injuries were a problem for the Belles early on in the sea­son, so staying healthy in the weeks to come is a big factor in their success. 
"As far as the conference goes, we want to finish in the top three," Goss said. "We just need to keep everyone healthy." 
Barstis hopes to use the next few meets as preparation for the championships. 
"We need to improve this weekend and get a couple of good practices going into break and come back raring to go," he said. 

Use Observer Classifieds. 
Irisl1 Country Bed [,1 Breakfast Registry "1(/MM, 'I<'" ·u atf.ua.'14 kwe a fd4u tfJ. .WU,,,, 
1690 I Jackson Road South Bend Call: (219) 255-1516 Fax: (219) 257-4193 
Web: H'WH'. irish countrv. coin 
:tj~========================~~~===========~~~ 
Reckers' Acousticafe 
Tuesday 
...1.
8-11 pm 
page 30 Friday, October 8, 1999
The Observer . SPORTS 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Young squad opens season at ND relays 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
Most teams can look to return­ing players and their coach to provide stability and leadership for an incoming season. 
With former two-year coach Jini Cook and 10 of last year's swimmers absent from the ros­ter, however, the 1999-2000 squad was forced quickly to look to some new faces for that sta­bility. 
.,.. Young stability. Heading into tonight's Notre Dame relays, the Belles boast a roster including five returning athletes, a new coach and a lineup that includes nine fresh­men. But the squad will have more to face than just the com­petition in the pool as they battle inexperience in their first out­ing. "Inexperience is going to play a role on two levels," said first­year Belles coach Gretchen Hildebrandt. "First of all, we have some freshmen and two · juniors who have never compet­. ed. Secondly, this is [the fresh­men 'sJ first college meet. Competing against Division I and Division II programs, it makes them very nervous." Yet the team can find some comfort in five solid veterans, among them senior co-captain Michelle Samreta, school record holder and MIM finalist in the 100-and 200-yard breastroke and Saint Mary's 1999 Athlete of the Year. Junior co-captain Olivia Smith,.MIM finalist in the 1500 freestyle, leads the team in distance events. Familiarity is also found in three sophomores. Danille Clayton, Alicia Lesneskie and Janel Miller were MIM finalists last February in middle dis­tance, backstroke and butterfly, respectively. Junior Colleen Sullivan also returns to assist in middle distance events after a year hiatus. Yet many holes still remain unfilled -holes that will be left up to a ..dedicated, hardwork­ing" freshman class, according to Smith. Yet while their colle­giate experience is lacking, ·their aquatic experience is not, with several of the freshmen hailing from successful high school careers. Freshmen Megan Harris (dis­tance), Lauren Smith (breas­troke), Lane Herrington (back­stroke) and Megan Mikiciuk (butterfly) will be called on to score points, according to l lildebrandt. "Many of [the freshmen] swam in high school, so they know what they're doing," Smith said. "In that respect, the 
inexperience may not have an 
effect." 
Coming off a 1-8 l 999 record 
that Hildebrandt vows to 
improve, she warns that the 
1999-2000 squad may be quite 
different than those of the recent 
past. 
Stepping into a team that has 
not seen a winning season this 
decade, the combination of 
depth and the addition of two 
new divers on the roster lead 
Hildebrandt to look towards a 
winning season. 
"I don't know if this is a realis­
tic goal," Hildebrandt admits. 
"But the idea that we do have 
divers, that we're not giving 40 
points to the other team ... it will 
be closer to 50/50." 
Freshmen Jani Kestcloot and Jaclyn Kistner will man the . board for the Belles. Both are 
newcomers to the sport. 
The first step towards this 
winning season will be taken 
tonight, as the Belles look to sur­
pass last season's fifth-place fin­
ish. Combining an intensified 
training program, a younger 
squad and potentially faster 
swimmers, Hildebrandt' s strate­
gy in their first outing is not to 
place but to swim fast. 
'Tm not stacking this lineup to 
get fourth or fifth place," she 
said. "I have no idea what teams 
will be there. I'm swimming fast 
relays to get times for them." 
Amid the challenges faced 
early in the season, there is 
potential. 
"Nobody has reached inside of 
them and made them swim to 
their potential," Hildebrand 
said. "I want to do that. I have 
faith in them." 
MONDAYS 
Hockey 
continued from page 36 
got some breaks tonight and when they did they took advantage of it." 
"I ran behind the net and stopped it and then I turned my back and ran back in the net," Blackburn said. "\Vhen I saw it come out someone was on the right side of me and I slid ovnr but I wasn't in time to glove up." 
Less than 3 minutes later, Michigan struck again, push­ing its lead to 3-1 with a goal from J .J. Swistak. Notre Dame countered when Rvan Dolder took a pass from Ryan Clark and beat Blackburn into the bottom right corner of the goal. · 
Michigan, however, answered once again with Langfeld's second of the game midway through the seond period. 
Trailing 4-2 in the third, the Irish desperatley struggled to create scoring chances.. 
"In the third period they put a lot of pressure on us and we were getting tired and they were desperah~." Redensen said. "Our defense I thought held up and this was a good learning experience for our younger players to learn what it's like to play in a close game on the road." 
Notre Dame freshman Conor Dunlop took· advantage of a poor shot by Jeff Jillson and led a 2-on-1 down the ice, before beating Blackburn to close the gap to one with 7 :35 left to play. 
The Irish, however, never had too many more chances. With 1:20 left, Notre Dame tried to put home a lose puck in front of the crease, but the Irish came up empty. 
"We scrambled but they did a good job of packing it in 
TUESDAYS 
10/25-12/6 10(26-12(7 7-8:15pWv 12:10-12:50
YOGA 
$25 $20 
WEVN£SVAYS 
TltU'RSDAYS 
10/27-12(8 10(28-12(9 12:10-12:50 5:20-6:30 $20 $21 
TAI CHI 
WEVN£SVAYS 'REGISTRATION 10/27-12/8 f(XR Y<9GA & 5:30-6:25 O'R TAI CH.I 6:30-7:25 10(12, 7:30et,n,t; $21 'RS'RC
Call 1-6100 with questions. 
Z?e~~~ 

,, ,... 
,,,.., 
KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 
Wolverine defender Jay Vancik puts pressure on the Irish in 
Michigan's 5-3 victory Thursday. 
there," Poulin said. "They're a pretty veteran team defensive­ly and we really didn't gener­ate a lot of offense. I was happy to be in it at the end of the game and felt fortunate we had a chance to win it." 
An empty net goal by Mike Comrie with 14 seconds sealed the victory for the Wolverines in a game that was dominated by penalties. 
"Too many penalties in the game for both teams." Redensen said. "Because of the type of game it was it might have favored our power play at one point, but we gave up a shorthanded goal. Their power play started to dick, but it was the type of game where you couldn't play shorthanded for very long against either one of these teams. It was a hard fought game at the ice level. Both teams really played hard and very physical with a lot of'irrtensity." 
Michgan and Notre Dame will go at it again tonight at 7 p.rn. at the Joyce Center. 
"We're a better hockey team that we showed today," Poulin said. "The good thing is that we'll have a chance to prove it tomorrow. It's early in the sea­son, but we want to set the tone for the rest of the year." 



purveyors offine wine &food 122 S. Michigan Street South Bend, IN Next to the College Football Hall of Fame (219) 234-WlNE 
LUNCH -DINNER -CARRY OUT --Fresh Salads and Pasta --Gourmet Pizzas --Indoor and Outdoor Seating --Variety of Fine Cigars 
Mon-Wed 11:00am -9:00pm (late summer 
hours) Thur 11:00am -11:00pm Pri-Sat 11:00am -1 :00am 
· Open Sundays 11:00am -4:00pm (on game weekends) Now taking reservations for all home game Saturdays 

~ MEN'S SOCCER 
Sat v. Providence 7:30pm 
First 300, get free pizza! 
MEN'S and WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Fri N.D. Relays 6:30pm 

Friday, October 8, 1 999 
The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Keenan looks to keep perfect record against Keough 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Writer 
The Keenan Knights will try lo improve tlrnir season record to 4-0 and extend their win streak to 18 games wlrnn they meet the Keough Kangaroos Sunday. 
Keough hopPs to move to 2­1, while tlw Knl'IHLll try to get last w,~ck's sloppy play out of its systmn. 
"We'll be looking to get back to basics," said senior player/coach Dong Min. "\Ve need to eliminate the mistakes and hope for a clean game." 
Keenan will, as always, prove formidable. 
Led by junior tailback Nick Costanzo and freshman quar­terback Billv Ellsworth, the Knights' off1;nsivc attack has proved explosiVl'.. 
Costanzo has scored in oach of the Knights' three wins, and his long gains have worn down opposing defenses. 
"Costanzo has probably been 
tho guy we've relied on," said 
Min. "He's been tough out 
there." 
Ellsworth has also shown big-play ability, contributing in each of' his teams' victories. "He has come along .real well," said Min. "We're pHmsecl with his progress." 
Dc>fonsively tlrn Knights will he anchored by middle line­backer Joe Klopp, who has be(m solid all SPason. 
Tim Kangaroos wi II try to encl tlw Keenan win streak, a run now approaching leg­endary status. 
"\Ve're looking forward to the challenge," said Keough coach Wade Laffey. "It's a tough order. They're a real organized team. They have a rnal commitment to winning. We'n~ going to come out and play hard. A win would be icing on the rake." 
Junior quarterback Travis Altixander will lead Keough's upset bid. 
"He's real steady," said Laffey of his team's signal 

The Michiana chapter of PFLAG supports lesbigay persons and their families in the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame communities on 
NATIONAL COMING OUT DAY, October 11 , and every day. Call 277­2684 or contact info@pflag.org 
caller. "He's a team leader." 
Attempting to snuff out the 
Keenan attack will be a tough 
Kangaroo defense led by line­
man Kevin McAbee. 
Dillon vs. O'Neill 
The Dillon Big Heel enter 
weekend play looking to 
extend a t\vo-game winning 
streak and move to 3-1 on the 
season as they take on an 
O'Neill Angry Mob team that 
has all but given up. 
O'Neill, which fell to 0-2 
after being shut out by Keenan 
last Sunday, has yet to score 
this season. The team is aware 
it does not stand much of a 
chance. 
"\Ve're just out there having 
fun," said O'Neill captain Drew 
Lais. "We really just don't care 
that much. We don't even 
practice." 
Given the outlook of its 
opposition, it appears the Big 
Hcd will have little trouble in 
notching a third consecutive 
victory. 
"If we play well, like we should, I don't think we'll have any trouble winning," said Dillon captain Jason Visner. "We've improved every week and I'm real pleased about that." 
Dillon will be looking for quarterback Colin Conway to continue his solid play. It was Conway's long touchdown strike to junior running back Hob Hcdenour that provided the winning margin last week against Stanford. 
Hedenour has played partic­ularly well thus far. ''J-le's like lightning out there," said Visncr. "llc's been running wild this year." 
Defensively the Big Hed will be anchored my middle line­backer J.P. Camardo, who has 



shown a knack for making the big play. 
Alumni vs. Stanford 
The Alumni Dawgs will try to remain undefeated as they 
face the Stanford Griffins  on  
Sunday.  
The  Dawgs  come  off  an  
impressive 20-0 win over Morrissey Manor, a con test that Alumni senior tailback Tom Dietrich turned into his 


own personal highlight reel. 
Dietrich scored on runs of 22 and 60 yards and seemed to elude the Manor defenders on every play. 
"Ile's been taking on a lead­ership role this year," Alumni captain Pat Paquette said of Dietrich. 'Td say he's proba­bly the best athlete out there on the field for either team." 
The skills of Alumni sopho­more passer Matt Anton Giovanni round out a solid Dawgs offensive attack. 
Giovanni's dangerous arm coupled with his superb mobil­ity makes the Alumni offense a difficult one to contain. 
On the defensive side of the ball, the Dawgs will look to a line led by sophomore Nick Linstoff to shut down the Griffin rushing attack. Junior cornerback Kevin Murray leads a formidable secondary 
that  looks  to  discourage  
Stanford from  going to  the  
passing game.  

If Stanford is to improve on its 1-2 mark, they will need their defensive line, led by team captain John Dickas, to step up and contain Dietrich. If Dietrich is allowed to run free, Sunday could be long day for the Griffin defense. 
Offensivelv, Stanford will look to move the ball by way of its potent backfield. 
Chris Heid, Curt Hoberts, and J.C. Perez constitute a core of backs that might very well bn the league's best. 
Qu,cK CAo 
233-6000 
r------------------, 
-ND to Michiana Regional $1.00 OFF ' Airport EACH TRIP One Person $8 
I I
QUICKCA.B
More than 1, $5 each 
: 233-6000 : 
-ND to Entertainment Area L------------------J
r------------------,
One Person $5 
$1.00 OFF !
More than 1 , $2 each 
EACH TRIP : 
-Waiting Time 10-5 Minutes 
QUICKCA.B !
We Appreciate Your 
233-6000 : I 
Business! 
L------------------J 



Please recvcle The Observer. 


page 32 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 8, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish to take on two Big East rivals 
By MATT OLIVA 
Spores Wrirer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team travels east this \-Vcek­end to take on Big East oppo­nents Rutgers and Seton Hall. 
The Irish will face Rutgers on Saturday, in New Jersey, and then travel in-state to face Seton Hall on Sunday. 
The Scarlet Knights of Rutgers and the Irish square off as the only two remaining 
,... undefeated teams left in the conference. The Irish are 8-4 on the season and 2-0 in the conference, while Hutgers is 9-8 overall and 2-0 in the Big East. Notre Danw has never lost a match to the Scarlet Knights (5-0). Last year, the Irish beat Rutgers in four matches and will look to keep their streak alive and remain the only unbeaten team in conferenctL The match will feature the Big East's co-players of the week. Mary Leffers of the Irish and Lola Opadiran of Rutgers received honors this week by leading their teams to perfect starts in the con­ference. Leffers collected 15 blocks and 28 kills while hitting a season high .510 in Notre Dame's two conference wins. She also leads the conference 
in hitting percentage (.368) blocks per game (l.91). 
Outside hitter Opadiran tal­lied 56 kills for a 6.22 kills per game average in Rutgers' two wins. She and teammate Kera Carter are both averaging more than four kills and three digs per games. 
Another perfect streak that the Irish will try to maintain is against Seton Hall. Notre Dame holds a 4-0 record against the Pirates and defeated them last year in straight games 15-7, 15-5, 15-10. 
Seton Hall enters the game with a 1-1 record in confer­ence, they are 10-5 overall on the season. They dropped a four-game match to Georgetown last weekend before defeating Villanova. 

The Pirates· are led by co­captain Jennifer Mumby and sophomore middle-blocker Paige EIiertson. 
Mumby averages 2.31 kills per game while EIiertson is averaging 2.7. Defensively Seton Hall is led by setter Kadri Kruus and her team­best 2.83 digs per game. 
The Irish will be looking for strong contributions from Kristy Kreher and Christy Girton. Both players have played strong offensively all year for the Irish and are sixth and seventh in the Big East in hitting average. 
Football 
continued from page 36 
tion at the 16-yard line. The Irish lined up to attempt a field goal, but Williams pulled up to pass instead. Connecting with Just, the Irish had a first-and-goal at the Sooner 6. 
The Irish failed to score, despite great field position, as David Baker intercepted a Williams pass and sent the two teams into halftime in a scoreless tie. EvPn then, the Irish were confident they would emerg<' vic­torious. 
"By halftime, we knew he had them," Lynch told Scholastic. "We should have scored twice in the first half and we knew it was just a matter of time before we scored against them." 
In ·the third quarter. it appeared the game might end in a scoreless tie. Both teams held the other's offense in check, and the punters pinned their oppo­nents deep in their own territo­ries. Oklahoma head coach Bud Wilkinson said after the game he would have been happy to escape from his battle with the Irish in a tie. 
"I was willing to settle for a scoreless tit~ in third quarter," he said after the game. "I felt at the start of the second half we had a good chance. But after we couldn't get going, even with our tremendous punting to their goal, I was ready to settle for a score­less tie." 
The Irish finally got it going three minutes into fourth quar­ter. Using 12 straight running plays, the Irish drove from their own 20-yard line to the Sooner 
24. With victory close at had, Williams hit Royer for 10 yards and an Irish first down. 
Williams' leadership was key to the Irish success. according to Lynch. 
"Even when it got to be third and fourth down in front of the goal, we knew we were going to score," he told Scholastic. "Bobby had taken us that far and he'd take us the rest of the way. We had complete confidence in him." 
After powerful running moved the ball to the Sooner 3-yard line, the Irish faced fourth-and-goal with less than four minutes remaining. \,Yilliams led his team to the line and surv<~yed the dnfonsfl. At the snap of the ball, he faked a handoff to Pit~trosante up the middle before taking a step to his right and pitching the ball to Lynch. Lynch scampered to the outside and crossed the goal line for a 7-0 lead. 
The historical significance of that touchdown hit Lynch as soon as he crossed the goal line. 
"When I crossed the goal line in the last series," he told Scholastic. "I saw their 47-game winning streak tumble." 
The defense held the Sooners short on the goal line of their next possession and history's longest winning streak was over. In addition to snapping the Sooners streak, the Irish also shut out the Sooners for the first time in 123 games. 
The '50s were a rough decade for the Irish fans. After four national championships in the 1940s, the Irish were held with­out a title in the following decade. The victory over the Sooners. however, helped Irish fans remember that there still was a little bit of magic left under the Dome. 
110 NII6 lrll1!! 
FEMINIST COLLECTIVE MEETING @ 9PM AT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE LEMANS HALL WOMENS CENTER 


26324 U.S. 12 East, P.O. Box 246 
Store Hours: 
Edwardsburg, Michigan 49112 
Monday to Thursday 9:00 -9:00 
(616) 663-3745
Friday and Saturday 9:00 -10:00 
FAX: (616) 663-8178
Sunday 10:00 -7:00 
Web: www.lunkersonline.com 
LUNKER'S AND ANGLER'S INN 

Enjoy the outdoors while shopping inside ... One of the largest outdoor stores in the Midwest featuring: 
"LIVE ALLIGATORS" "LIVE SHARKS" RIVER WINDING THRU STORE 8000 LB LARGE MOUTH BASS GEESE SUSPENDED FROM A BEAUTIFUL SKY 22 AQUARIUMS FEATURING THE FAMOUS 6000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM 
One of the best restaurants in Michiana -Angler's Inn
Camping, fishing, hunting, sporting goods 
Lunker's -ND's favorite founded by a 1977 Notre 
Clothing includes: Filson, Woolrich, Colutnbia, 1OX 
Dame Grad -Fran McCollester 


ONLY 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS STRAIGHT UP STRD 23 INTO MICHIGAN 

Friday, October 8, 1999 
The Observer. SPORTS page 33 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Breen-Phillips slaughters Howard to remain undefeated 
By RACHEL PROTZMAN Sports Writer 
To Babes, it's all about domination in the playing field. 
Thl, football field, that is. 
Breen-Phillips remains undefeated at 5-0 following a 19-0 slaughter of 1loward Wednesday; 
The Babes grabbed the early lead ·with a Kanm Swanson touchdown. BP \Vas able to increase its lead with two more touchdowns by Erin West and Kelly Landers in the first half, the Landers' just 1 5 seconds before the end of the half. 
"\,Ve played an awesome first half,'' said captain Katie Leicht. "We played really well on defense and offense, but we got sloppy and overconfident and sulfored a lot of p(malties in the second half." 
IInward showed strong defense in the sPcond ·half to keep th,~ Babes from scoring again but were unable to pull off any scoring opportunities. 
"Our offonse has been improving with every game. We want to keep up that level," said Leicht. "We're look­ing to be undefeated going into the playoffs and we think we can do that. 
We want to go all tlrn way in the play­offs." 
Cavanaugh 13, McGiinn 6 
Cavanaugh grabbed a 13-6 win over McGlinn Wednesday to give the Chaos their best _record to date at 4-2. 
Down 6-0 going into the second half, McGlinn's Pam Kruger grabbed a touchdown to even the score. 
"Our defense played especially well," said McGlinn junior Jamie Glasser. "We just had a couple of' breakdowns that cost us the points." 
By the end of the game, the Chaos were just too much for McGlinn defense. With just 40 seconds left in the game Meghan Myers scored a touchdown to give Cavanaugh the win. leaving McGlinn scrambling to score before the clock ran out. . 
"We had a chance to score at the end of the game, but we lost it." said Glasser. 
The Shamrocks arc now 0-3-2 and will play Howard Sunday. The McGlinn contest ended Cavanaugh·s season, and the team now prepares for playoff action. 
"We hope to work on fundamen­tals," said Chaos captain Melissa Tacey. "\Ve're playing well and now we have time to fix the little things. \Ve hope to make things happen in the playoffs." 
Pangborn 0, Badin 0 
Both Pangborn and Badin stand at 1-2-2 after a scoreless tie Wednesday. 
Leading the Phox defense was Erin Piroutek with an interception late in the game to keep Badin from scoring. 
"We had good field position many times," said Pangborn captain Jillian DePaul. "But we were unable to exe­cute our plays. We had the ability to get it in the end zone, but we just didn't capitalize." 
In fact the Phoxes did get the ball in the end zone, but it was called back on a holding penalty. 
"Our defense stopped them," said Badin freshman Amy Marshall. "They stepped up and didn't let them score." 
Badin also had the lost scoring opportunities with an interception by Helena Pan at its end zone. 
"We moved the ball really well this game," said Marshall. "If' we would have had a couple more minutes, we would've been able to score and win." 
Badin will face Farley Sunday while Pangborn will play BP. 

GOLF 
Ratay leads Irish to first-place tie with Miami of Ohio 
Special to The Observer 
FHJ\NKLIN, Ind. 
Notre Dame sophomorn Steve Hatay of Arlington Heights. Ill. held on to capture mndalist honors while thn Irish finished lied for lirst with Miami of' Ohio in tlrn Hl-t<•am fipJd. 
Following final-round action 
Tuesday at the annual Legends of Indiana Intercollegiate, the Irish held at the par-72, 7,044­yard Legends of Indiana Golf Course. 
The final 16-team standings mark the first time in the histo­ry of the Notre Dame men's golf program that an Irish squad has finished first in back-to-back tournaments. Notre Dame 
,-­
opened the 1999 fall season by winning the 24-team Air Force Invitational, which took place Sept. 17-19, with a school­record score of four-over 868. 
The strong start provides a huge boost to Notre Dame's hopes for securing the pro­gram's first appearance in the NCJ\A Championship since 1966, The Irish were in Orn run-


Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant IO-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2()(X) graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our ~ajor metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining ear]y-adn1issions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond in1n1ediately with a letter of intent, at which tin1e one-third of the cash grant will be n1ailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-n1ail us or write: Russell B. Pulliain 
I ' , Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers \Yeh ...i,~: www.,tarmw....l'Olll/pjf P.O. Box 145 1:-m.til: pulli..un(a, .tr,1~,, ,.1:om
. . Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
ning for NCM bids during each of the past two seasons, but had to rally in the sprain after sub­par fall performances. 
Hatay, who opened with rounds of 71 and 70 on Monday, closed with a 73 on Tuesday for a 214 total. edging Marshall's Aaron Williams (71-71-71) by a single stroke to finish atop the 80-player field. Hatay's two­under 214 total represents the fourth-best 54-hole score in team history and marks just tlrn fourth time that an Irish golfer has finished under par during a 54-hole intercollegiate event. 
Current senior Jeff Connell holds the 54-holc scoring record with a four-under 209 at the Marshall Invitational in the spring of 1998 while Connell also shot a four-under 2.12 at the Kentucky Invitational last spring. 
Current senior captain Todd Vernon matched that score ear­lier this fall at the Air Force Invitational. Their efforts are tied for the best Jrish 54-hole score, in relation to par. 
Notre Damt~ opened with rounds of 296-294 on Monday but trailed Louisville (298-291) by a single stroke. The Irish then closed with a strong round of 283 in the play-five, count­four format \Vhile Louisville dropped to fifth with a closing 
294. Miami (302-293-283) used a strong final round to forge the first-place tic. 
Irish junior Alex Kent, playing just his second career tourna­ment with the Irish, provided a big boost for the Irish with a final-round 69, placing the brother of' former Irish great Willie Kent in a tie for sixth with a 217 total (72-76-69). 

Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
~:t~ 
FOUR FLAGS FARM 
!Bed and 23'te:ak(aj_t 
THE Kl:R\:f'R', 
PHONE
Ru> BL:o TRAIi NoRTH 616-471-5711
BunP.'A". Ml 49107 
Georgine Resk:k~ sopPono 
with ~~aria Stablein. piono 
Sundu4. Octc±ieP 10. 1999 1 pm. Annkg Audifor>it1m 
All Germ;in prorum of Lieder by Ludwlr v,m Beethoven, Anton Webern, Richard StnuB, Robert Schumann, Huro Wolf & Kurt Well! 
Tickets: $3 Students, $6 Senion, $8 ND/SMC Community, S10 General Av.illable at the Lafortune Box Office, or charite by phone, 1-8128 
for more lnformadon: www.nd.edu/ -music or I ·620 I 

----~---__......---·--,~------·,w-"""!"1,O"""'J-....--...-!""---IOIOll'l!..!"IA.._Mi_.._!'9_.#111"_-,.)--:"_,":,:,.Z~~S.!!!":::--_~.--------A-1111111111111!9""'-W!'S0.~-,,,__~_1!11@$11!!!.,""'! IIO!l! ....._______..,..,.W_:,'!'!A""'*"'llll!lll~Q-'!l!!AfU~_!l!I)--=--•_!II_·••.t____1111!1 
page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 8, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Erikson, Irish square off against Big East foe West Virginia 

"Iler fitness level is so much By MIKE CONNOLLY better now than it has been in Associate Sports Editor the past," he said. "I think she 
is a little quicker than she has 
Her teammates call her been. So from a physical stand­"Motor" and she plays like she's point she is able to go for long the Energizer Bunny. periods of time." 
Flying up and down the field, Despite 1999 being Irish junior Meotis Erikson has \Valdrum's first year at the put forth her best season in an helm of the Irish, he is familiar Irish uniform in 1999 and is with Erikson from coaching her currently second on the team in on the under-20 national team. points, goals and assists. When Erikson played with the 
This Friday night, when the national team, Waldrum was Mountaineers of \Vest Virginia twice a guest coach with the visit Alumni Field, they will team. learn that the Irish offense is no With Erikson's fitness at a longer the "Jenny Heft Show" high, Waldrum is now turning that it was in 1998 when Heft his attention to other ways she lead the team with 28 goals -can improve her game. eight more than her closest "Now what we are trying to teammate. Erikson has get her to do is get her shot off responded from an injury that a little quicker," he said. "She is limited htff in 1998 and become taking so many touches on the a solid counterpart to Heft. ball but she is definitely getting 
"Over the last four or five better as the year goes on." games both her and Jenny I left While Erikson leads the team have been scoring goals for us with 38 shots, \Valdrum wants on a regular basis," ht-md coach her to get even more shots on Handy Waldrum said. "I think goal. they are a good complement "J think he wants mP to take because they are different kinds opportunities that he calls half­
_, 
of players. Meo tis is a little chances -situations where I more of a target player that don't think I vvill get the shot off plays at the top of the box with because of the defender or the her back to the goal. While angle," Erikson said. "He wants Jenny dips a little more in and me to take more half chances our and creates a little havoc because sometimes half because she is constantly mov­chances go in. lie wants me ing. taking me looks." 

Erikson had a frustrating In the past, Erikson has tend­1998 campaign. She was forced ed to look for the perfect shot to sit out two and a half months and the sure goal rather than JOHN DAILY/The Observer prior to the season and still was just putting the ball on net. She Irish forward Meotis Erikson has emerged as a pivotal player on offense this season. The junior not 100 percent during the sea­is trying to break away from is second on the team in goals, assists and points. son. her past tendencies to get more 
"It [19981 \Vas very frustrat­shots on goal. to put shots on goal this week­divisional record and clinch the home will help the Irish pick up ing," Erikson said. "When I "I think I am kind of a perfoc­end when the Irish take on the Division title. their ninth win of the year. came back, I played the whole tionist so a lot of the times I try Mountaineers on Friday and West Virginia stands third in "I think West Virginia is hav­season but I \Vas still hurt so I to look for the perfect shot and then travel to Pittsburgh to play the division \-Vith a 2-1 record ing a good y1~ar," he said. "It had to sit out practices and I a lot of the times you aren't the Panthers on Sunday. Both while Pittsburgh is last in the will be good to get them while was never able to get very fit." going to get the perfoct shot," learns are Big East Mid-Atlantic division with a 0-3-1 record. w<~ are fresh on Friday. Plus the 
Erikson's fitness improved in she said. division opponents and two \'Valdrum hopes that playing fact that we have them at home 1999. according to Waldrurn. Erikson will get two chances wins would give the Irish a 6-0 the Mountaineers first and at will help us this weekend." 

-, 
-· 
r) 
~ 
,,I 
i; 
/,' 
~ 
--!J 
jj 
P· 
a, 
i'ir'f ), 
0 

,. 
! 
'..L 
1$!!111"1,11-_ 
' 
.•­

Friday, October 8, 1 999 
The Observer . TODAY page 35 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
•.CO '(ou RE'./\Ll'< "Tl~lNI<;". 
NAr+... \JJ~f.tT so~ c~ 
.CoMPAt.l'{ \.JO\Jl-0
.-nHff "'f\1'c. ,Ail.LE61'-i\O\J.S 
OF .S~E.I\T~I-\OP t,.I\&:,~ 
·;ioc P "To s V'­
.M M<.1NG:. THt;.SE. rH-11-Jc,Si, 
~ow~~ 
,ARE A(.."(ul\L(..\{ TI\.UE.~ 
Fox TROT 
Fox, I'VE TRIED lou ON oFFENSE, I'VE TRIED YOU oN DEFENSE..~ 

AND I'VE CoME To A DEFINITE CoNCLUSloN AS To WHERE I WANT 
TOM KEELEY 
ME.~1-J\V\-\\ \.E. 1 50M.t; Wlt t;\~£ UJ -V f ~ "\""('tTt:: f.J E.w '{ 0'(. \<-•• ,i.::-"':~ 1-M:"'2 
BILL AMEND 
QUARTERBACK?? 
FoR TttE HA HA. No, SER1• 
oPPoSIN& OUSL'1'. IS IT
NoSE TACKLE?? 
WHERE? WHERE? 
TEAM. Lit'4EB1'CICER? Grrrr 
JEFF BEAM
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

Men about campus face confusion on how to react to ASU women. 
beam.1@Rd.edu 
-
==================================================================--====================================================================== 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Roosevelt 65 Ballade's trio Island's locale 
66 New shoots 1 Sat tight 
40 Pennsylvania 
67 1967 Chemistry 6 Boaters' 
resort area 
Nobelistrelatives 
41 Photographic
13 Excites 
technique 15 Gymnast's need 43 Helm heading DOWN 
16 Matthew, for one 44 Bow wood 1 Rifle supports 11 Disarmed 45 Robust 
2 like some of 18 Nintendo arcade 48 Depicts unfairly Chekhov's
game of the 80's 
51 The Eagle, e.g. writings20 Cold war proj. 
53 Like a Burnsian 3 Study furniture 21 Medevac mouse 
4 Tasso·s patron destinations, 55 Poor Yorick was 5 As is fitting briefly 
a fellow of this, 
6 Loan sources22 Yoga posture said Hamlet 7 Enthralled26 Token of victory 60 "The Thorn a Kind of warrior30 When doubled, Birds" novelist 9 Then: Fr.
a dance McCullough 10 Year in Basil ll's
32Pro--63 Flippant rule
response to a
33 Places where 11 Had a little lamb 
rebuke important 64 Not dead 12 Neighbor of Turk. 13 Passing things 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 14 Chow alternative 19 Tolkien creatures 0 C ~--+--+--A N T S 23 Abbr. that often 
customs are 


HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Carradme, Jesse Jackson, Paul Hogan, Sigourney Weaver, Chevy Chase 
Happy Birthday: Don't deviate from what you know and do well. Others may try to lead you astray, but if you are true to yourself and your beliefs, you should be able to stay on course. Your vision is good; however, it may be a little too advanced for some of your peers. Your numbers: 2, 15, 21, 33, 47, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will find it difficult to get the rest you require. A long, quiet walk by your­self or a drive in the country may just do the trick and help you avoid the trouble brewing at home. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Trav­el should be encouraged. You will be in a high-energy mode, and you must have an outlet if you wish to accom­plish the most. Don't be surprised if someone dose to ~·ou needs help. 
00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your high energy and competitive nature will put you in the driver's seat. Go after your goals and don't let others hold you back. Don't get involved in joint financial ventures. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Pro• 
._P-uzz__._le_b_yB~r-e-nd.._a_n.,,..Em....m-ett_.,Q,,..u..,..lg....le_y_ 
ceed down new avenues. Sign up for courses if you are having a problem
37 Triptik abbrs. 52 Hit alternative 59 Analytic 
keeping a job. Financial problems are 
38 Berkshire 54 They end in psychology 
causing friction at home. You may 
have to settle for a job you don't want to take. 0000
response Septembre · founder 
39 Jolly Roger 56 Bash 60 Lincoln, e.g. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can 
crewman 57--bag 
expect those you li\'e with to have
61 Day-­
42 Meany of 58 Lou's "La their own ideas about how they want things done around the house. Don't argue; just work on your own space 
literature Bamba" co-star 62 Smashed 
46 Be plucky? 
and avoid getting into heated 
debates. 000
47 Hardly the Answers to any three clues in this puzzle assertive type 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Intro­duce yourself to new people who art· attending the same function that you are. If you are inter~ted m someon1: you meet, don't be shy; ask him or her out. 000 
LIB RA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You won't have too much luck trying to keep things harmonious on the home front. Don't be too disheartened; make plans to go out with friend1­who appreciate your company. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): In­laws will have good suggestions, but if you let them interfere with your 
personal life, you will live to regret it. Solve your problems on your own and tell your relatives when all is said and done. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can make money, but someone is likely to talk you out of it as fast as you make it. You should consider making a move. Real estate invest­ments look positive. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You must try to get along with your partner. You haven't been seeing 
• things in the same light for some time now. Do a bit of backtracking, and you'll find that you are both to blame 
00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You must plan those career moves that you've been contemplating for the longest time now. You know what your monetary goals are, so focus on what you have to do in order to reach them.COO 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Tum your attention to hobbies and creative endeavors that give you pleasure You may want to teach children some of the unique skills you've developed 
000 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
Bi';i~_day Baby: ,You have a ~ood sense of who;ou are and what your
49 Buck Rogers·s 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
cap~b1lities are. You re advanced m your thinking an willing to work hard to
ladylove-­
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
reahze your aspirations. You are skillful with your response to those wh0
Deering 
challenge you. 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
(Need advice? Check out Euge111a's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromale.com.) © 1999 Universal Pres.s Sn1d1ra1,, 
so Dishonest sort 50 years: 1 ·888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Co1nmunity. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
------,-w.,.,,..---.w_____""g_____,,""·~•-_ ..______.,._.__...,.____..________________._.llllllll___ ll'III________ _ 

Spiking Success 
The Notre Dame volleyball squad heads east this weekend to take on conference rivals Rutgers and Seton Hall. 
page 32 

· THE page 36 0BSER\'ER Friday, October 8, 1999 

HOCKEY 
Fifth-ranked Wolverines outskate Irish in 5-3 victory 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Editor 
The No. 5 Michigan hockey team used two goals from Josh Langfcld tu defeat Notre Dame 5-:3 last night in front of more than 2,000 fans at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish got off to a slow start and were outshot 15-5 in the first period. Michigan's Geoff Koch put the Wolverines on the board 2: 11 into the first with a power-play goal and Langfeld added a score mid­way through the period to give the Wolverines an early 2-0 lead. 
"There's no question that set the tone," Irish head coach Dave Poulin said. "Three of their four goals, aside from the empty netter, were scored on power plays or at the end of them. We gave them all the offensive help and momentum thev needed." 
Poulin's squad grabbed the momentum 24 seconds into the second when captain Ben Simon took advantage of a 5­
on-3 power play and beat Michigan goaltender Josh Blackburn. The goal left Simon with 99 career points. 
"We were shorthanded and we tried to clear it," Michigan head coach Red Beresen said. "It hit off someone's skate and it went back in behind the net. They picked it up, bang, bang and it was in the net. It's just one of those things. But you're going to get breaks for you and against you. I think they 
see HOCKEY/page 30 


FOOTBALL HISTORY 
.. Irish overcame adversity to beat Sooners with single TD 
Editor's note: Notre Dame's journey to achieve designation as the 20th century's greatest college football team is marked by 10 milestones, one in each decade since 1900. The Observer examines these moments in a 10-part series that appears on Frida.lJS. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Spons Editor 
The Irish gave new meanings to the line "What though the odds be great or small, old Notre Dame will win over all" on Nov. 16, 1957, when they defeated the defending national champion Oklahoma Sooners, 7-0. 
Rarely in Notre Dame history have the odds been stacked so greatly against the Irish than in than in 1957 when they traveled to Norman, Okla., to take on the second-ranked Sooners. 
. The Sooners were riding an 4 7 ­game winning streak and had defeated the Irish 40-0 the previ­ous year. While Oklahoma was at the top of its game, Notre Dame,. a 19-point underdog, was near the bottom of its -having dropped two straight games to Michigan State and Navy by a combined score of 54-12. 
Despite the odds, the Irish rel­ished the opportunity to take on the Sooners and challenge college football's longest winning streak -a record that still stands today. 
"We were glad they stayed undefeated during the year to that we could beat them," Irish halfback Dick Lynch told Scholastic magazine in the Nov. 22, 1957 edition. 
In much the same way that the team believed it could win, the students believed in their beloved Irish. Numerous pep rallies were held throughout the week, and when the Irish arrived in Norman, they found a telegram signed by 3,200 students urging them to victory. 
Despite the pregame hype and high spirits of the Irish, tho Sooners came out in· the first quarter looking very much like a defending national champion. 
Behind powerful running and pinpoint passing, the Sooners moved the ball down to the Irish 20-yard line with little resistance. With the goal line in striking dis­tance, however, the Irish defense dug in and forced the Sooners to turn the ball over on downs at the 13-yard line. The Sooners would not again come so close to the Irish goal on that afternoon. 
Early in the second quarter. the Sooners again mounted a drive that reached the Irish 40-yard line. Sooner quarterback Carl Dodd dropped back to pass but was sacked by Irish defensive linemen Dick Hoyer and Frank Kuchta and fumbled the ball. Dodd recovered the football only to fumble it away again. The Irish pounced on the loose ball this time, however, and Notre Dame's Nick Pietrosante recovered the ball. 
Passes from Irish quarterback Bob Williams to Jim Colosimo, Royer and Pietrosante and a tough run by Lynch moved the ball to the Sooner 3-yard line. The Irish offen~e stalled at the 3, however, and turned the ball over on downs just one foot short of the goal line. 
The defense held Oklahoma on the next possession and forced the Sooners to punt. Punting from deep in his own territory, Sooner Clendon Thomas managed only to put the ball at the Sooner 49­yard line. With great field posi­tion, the Irish offense went on the attack again. 
A pass to Colosimo and runs by Frank Reynolds and Jim Just powered the Irish offense to the Sooner 20-yard line. The Sooner defense once again got tough in the shadow of its own goal post and forced a fourth-and-6 situa­
see FOOTBALL/page 32 
-
vs. West Virginia vs. Providence Today, 7:30 p.m. Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 
Volleyball at R:utgers 
SPORTS ~ 'S; 
ATA 
vs. Arirona State at Olivet College Saturday, 2 p.m. Saturday, 1:30 p.m. s~ Sunday, 2 p.m. 
GLANCE ~ 

O
THE Friday, October 8, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame vs. Arizona State 

j''"'. . ·>,,,:., 
.,·· ·°":_,_ •: ·.· ,·: ..r,T.t. ·•·. "'r• '·("'"~··.~ . '. . ,. ,:,•·. ;:~·· : h 
~ ~ ~ , . ' .\I: '?.' .-: ; \, ' j 
ti ·x ~ 
KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 
After switching from linebacker to defensive end following his sophomore season, Irish junior Grant Irons has solidified his role as the starting defensive tackle in Greg Mattison's 4-3 defensive scheme. For more on this Irish iron man, see page 3. 
KICK-OFF FORECASTINSIDE 
game preview.......... ....page 2 
record: 2-3 

record: 2-2 
rosters........................page 4 
home: 2-1 home: 2-1
vs.
focus on Arizona State ..pages 
away: 0-2 away: 0-1 college games today....page 6 

gametime: r :30 p.m. ND time pregame commentary...page 7 
weather: partly cloudy. highs in the low 60s 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 8, 1999 
game_ hype 
Irish must play error-free to win 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sporrs Editor 
With records hovering around .500 and each having played several games decid­ed by a touchdown or less, the Irish {2-3) and the Sun Devils (2-2) appear to be fair­ly balanced teams. 
A key stat for both teams is turnovers, as both rank in the bottom 10 Division I-A football teams in turnover margin. In Notre Dame's three losses, it has had 11 fumbles -seven of which have been recovered by the opponent. 
In Notre Dame wins over Kansas and Oklahoma, on the other hand, Notre Dame has only fumbled the ball once. 
Notre Dame and Arizona State played for the first time ever last season, a game Notre Dame won in Tempe 28-9. Both schools were near the top of the national rankings in the early 1990s but have since gone downhill. Neither the Irish or Arizona State are ranked in the top 25. 
The Sun Devils look to J.R. Redmond as a prime source of offense. A second-team all-American last year, Redmond con­tributes big-time in rushing, receiving and on special teams in return yards. The Irish shut down their opponents' offense fairly effectively so far this season. 
The Sun Devils' quarterback, junior Ryan Kealy, is playing well, despite being in the midst of recovery from arthroscopic knee surgery on Sept. 7. Notre Dame's opponents have averaged nearly the same number of passing yards per game as Notre Dame, with 233 compared to 237. 
The Irish have done well on the aerial attack, with quarterback Jarious Jackson coming off his best performance this year. Against Oklahoma, Jackson became the first Irish quarterback ever to pass for more than 200 yards and run for more than 100 in the same game. Notre Dame can get big plays in the air but needs to overcome errors and be more consistent. 

The Sun Devils play tough defense against the pass, especially cornerback Courtney Jackson. 
Notre Dame's running game has been rather anemic this year, showing an inability to power the ball for the first down on key plays. The Irish rushed for less than 130 yards in each of their three losses, although sophomore Tony Fisher shows promise. 
Notre Dame's special teams unit swings back and forth between mediocre and dis­astrous. It nearly kept the Irish from beat­ing the Sooners with two missed field goals, a dropped snap which resulted in a safety, a kick-off penalty, and a poor punt out of the end zone. Arizona State benefits from a proven punter and place-kicker in Stephen Baker, as well as the returns of Redmond. 
To inch toward an even record, the Irish need to avoid turnovers, improve the play of special teams and manage the clock better. The Irish and the Sun Devils seek to prove to the nation that they are not in the middle of a down-swing in football. 

Bob Davie Irish head coach 
..I think the D-line is coming along well. Every game we are improving.·· 

Jim Sanson kicker 
"We're going to talk about the tradition but once we get into the stadium we need to block all of that out ... 
"There's no denying the fact that winning is a whole lot better than losing.,, 

Grant Irons defensive end 
"/ am excited for this game because it is a challenge for myselfto see how much I have grown. •• 


DOWNTOWN JUST ONE MILE FROM N.D. 
COME IN FORA 
BLUE N GOLD 

-31 SOUTH, LEFT ON COLFAX 
WATCH ALL COLLEGE, NFL, NBA, MLB, NHL GAMES HERE ON OUR 6 TV'S & BIG SCREEN TV 
CELEBRATE THE TRADITION OF THE IRISH AND THE BREWING HISTORY IN SOUTH BEND AT THE MOST SCENIC SITE IN TOWN 
FREE 282~BREW $20FF
APPETIZER WITH PURCHASE j 
ON ANY ORDER OF 2 ENTREES ~ OF $ 1 0 OR MORE; 
' 
ONE COUPON PER PARTY ONE COUPON PER PARTY i 
POOL TABLES -CIGAR LOUNGE -DARTS EXPIRES 1 2/30/99 
;
;_,,......=~.:..•-~:::~.--~-~~~.~-~-~-~---·-··J 
PROGRESSIVE AMERICAN CUISINE SERVING LUNCH, DINNER AND LATE NIGHT MENU IRISH MUSIC JAM SESSION 1 ST & 3RD TUESDAY EACH MONTH 
FOOD/DRINK SPECIALS -BANDS WEDNESDAYS OPEN MON -SAT @ 1 1 :30, SUN @ NOON -BEST BANQUET ROOMS IN TOWN 
300 E. COLFAX A VENUE, SOUTH BEND 
I 0 
' . ' ' .
' 
Friday, October 8, 1999 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irons switches on at game time 
. Junior defensive lineman playing best football of college-career 
By BRlAN KESSLER 
Sports Editor 
Superman had a telephone booth. Junior defensive end Grant Irons has an imaginary switch in the locker room. 
At game time, he flips it on and becomes a man on mis­sion to drag down a running back or put a lick on the quarterback. After the game, Irons turns it off and the ami­able Grant emerges from the locker room. 
"It's definitely a different personality on the field," the 6-foot-5 Irons said. "I look at it as a switch. I turn that switch on when I put the pads on and the helmet on. It's a different side of Grant Irons. When I'm on the field I'm intense, but when I'm off the field, I turn off the switch and I'm Grant Irons the person." 
It's Grant Irons the person that the student body has grown to love. And the feeling is mutual. 
''I'd describe myself as easy going, like to have fun and surround myself with positive people," Irons said. 'Tm here at a great university with 

Irons ­
position: defensive end 
year:junior 
awards: USA Today first 
team All-American as 
senior in high school, Reebok prep All-American, 
named national player of 
the year by Touchdown 
Club ofColumbus, 1997 Dial Awardfor nation's top scholar athlete, named 15th best prospect out of high school by Chicago-Sun 
Times 
notables: converted from linebacker to defensive end after sophomore season,· brother, Jarrett, was All­American linebacker at Michigan 
great people and professors. I'm thankful that I'm at this position in my life and sur­rounded by great people." 
Irons has not only made an 

JEFF HSU/The Observer Grant Irons (44) and the Notre Dame defensive line will look to stop Arizona State's J.R. Redmond when the Irish and Sun Devils clash in Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. 
impression on the students, but also on opposing football teams. 
So far this season, he has 

Junior defensive end Grant Irons returns a fumble against Michigan State. Irons has 12 tackles and a sack on the season to go along with the fumble recovery. 
been an impact player for the Irish, recording eight solo tackles, four assited tackles, a sack and a fumble recovery in five gamei;. 
"Grant is playing the best he's played right now," head coach Bob Davie said. "There's another level for 
Grant, I really believe that." 
After starting five games last season at linebacker, Irons was moved to defensive line at the end of the season to fit in with Notre Dame's new 4-3 defensive scheme. 
"It's definitely been an adjustment," said Irons, 
who bulked "Grant is playing the best rivals, Jarrett up to 275 he's played right now. never pres­
pounds to fit sured him to
There:" another level 
the position. become a 
"At first I was for Grant. I really Wolverine. reluctant to believe that.,. "He never 
move to the pushed me to new position go [to because I was Bob Davie Michigan}," always com­Irish head coach Irons said. 
football at Nebraska and Michigan. Along the way, they have all played a key role in his life. 
"The greatest thing about my brothers is that they are also my best friends," Irons said. "[Jarrett] is up here for almost every game to support 
me and I appreciate it. He's one of my role models. He was a two-time All-American and two-time captain at Michigan, but he's not just' a great foot­ball player, he's also a great student." 
Despite playing for one of 
Notre Dame's 
biggest 
fortable play­ing line­backer from the up position. Now each week, I'm feeling more and more comfortable and enjoying the position." 
Irons not only adjusted to a new position, but also to a new role. 
"As an upperclassmen, I'm embracing the leadership role," Irons said. "I think knowing myself and my team­mates are all leaders in them­selves. We have great players and great coaches and I know each week I can count on them." 
In addition to his teammates and coaches, Irons has always counted on his family. His father Gerald played six years of professional football for the Oakland Raidt~rs and Cleveland Browns, and his two older brothers played college 
"He always 
wanted me to make my own decisions and didn't want to influence me one way or another. I was close [to going to Michigan], but when I came here there was no question it was the best place for me." 
Irons has found a home for himself at Notre Dame. As a Management Information Systems major, he has excelled in the classroom and is also making an impact out­side it. 
"There are a lot of organiza­tions I like to be involved in like Habitat for Humanity and Student-Athlete Advisory Council," Irons said. "There are various activities I like to associate myself with. I don't just look at Grant Irons the football player, but Grant Irons the person. ., 
birthdate: July 7, 1979 a word to describe him off the favorite class at Notre Dame: hometown: The Woodlands, field: first-class Advanced Calculus
up close & 
Texas the people who have helped if he could play one position on major: business him the most since he has the other side of the ball it dimensions: 6-foot-5. 272 been at Notre Dame: Father would be: tight end
personal 
pounds Ted llesburgh, Law favorite stadium other than ND a word to describe him on the school dean David Link stadium: 1\1ichigan
WITH GRANT IRONS 
field: impact player and Chris Zorich Stadium 
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 8, 1999 
1999 FIGHTING IRISH 
IN POSITION: linebackers 

Schedule 
Aug.28 KANSAS 48·13 Sept. 4 at Michigan 26-22 Sept. 11 at Purdue 28-23 Spet 18 MICHIGAN STATE 23-13 Oct. 2 OKLAHOMA 34-30 Oct. 9 ARIZONA STATE Oct. 16 use Oct. 30 NAVY Nov.6 at Tennessee Nov. 13 at Pittsburgh Nov.20 BOSTON COLLEGE Nov.27 at Stanford 


third season at Notre Dame 
career record: 
18-12 
at Notre Dame: 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 
18-12 
Anthony Denman (left) and the Notre Dame linebackers will be expected to Bob Davie against Arizona have a big game against J. R. Redman and the Sun Devils running attack. head coach State: 1-0 
ASU will challenge 'backers 
Roster 
performance by Anthony Deman and 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR Observer Staff Report 
Tyreo Harrison against Michigan
1 DekeCooper FS 6-2 220 SR 2 Carlos Pierre-Antoine !LB 6-3 245 so State, the linebackers have not made 3 Amaz Battle QB 6-1 215 The Irish linebackers have been
so big plays. 
4 Jamaar Taylor WR 6-0 200 FR quiet for most of the season because 
197 Against the always dangersous J.R.
5 A'Jani Sanders FS 5-10 SR 
they have not spent much time on
6 David Givens SE 6-1 217 so Redman and the Ariszona State 
the field. Against passing teams like
7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-1 228 SR offense, the linebackers will be test­8 Anthony Brannan OLB 5-10 215 SR Purdue and Oklahoma, Notre Dame 
ed by the run and the pass. They
9 Raki Nelson Fl 5-11 180 SR 
played a lot of defensive backs and
9 Dwayne Francis DB 6-0 189 so must stand strong in the Sun Devil 10 Deveron Harper CB 5-11 187 SR fewer linebackers. Thus so far in 
assualt if the Irish are to pick up
11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 191 SR 1999, with the exception of a stellar their third win of the season.


12 Tony Fisher RB 6-2 225 so 13 Nick Setta K/P 6-0 160 FR 14 James Caputo 6-1 193 SR
p 14 Dan Novakov QB 6-3 210 FR 15 Clifford Jefferson CB 5-9 182 so 16 Glenn Earl DB 6-1 185 FR 16 John ShinglE:r TE 6-2 252 SR 17 Joey Hildbold P/K 5-11 175 FR 17 Jeremy Juarez FB 5-11 250 JR 18 Joey Getherall FL 5-7 176 JR 19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 187 SR 20 Gerome Sapp DB 6-0 210 FR 21 Javin Hunter Fl 6-0 185 so 22 Julius Jones RB 5-11 185 FR 23 Chris Yura RB/DB 5-11 195 FR 24 Albery Poree DB 5-10 185 FR 25 Tony Driver TB 6-1 217 JR 26 Lee Lafayette CB 5-9 196 SR 27 Jason Beckstrom DB 5-10 185 FR 28 Donald Dykes ss 5-11 197 so 28 Mike Grady FS 5-11 200 SR 29 Justin Smith FS 5-11 190 JR 30 Rocky Boiman OLB 6-4' 245 so 32 Terrance Howard TB 6-1 193 so 33 <;ourtney Watson RB 6-2 205 FR 34 Ronnie Nicks !LB 6-0 240 SR 35 David Miller K-P 5-11 190 so 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 163 so 36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 259 so 37 Ron Israel ss 6-0 205 JR 39 Anthony Denman ILB 6-2 230 JR 39 Chris Leck ss 5-9 192 SR 40 Jason Murray FB 6-1 260 JR 40 Brendan Farrell !LB 5-9 232 SR 41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 235 SR 42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 185 so 44 Grant Irons DE 6-5 272 JR 45 Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 250 SR 46 Andrew Dempsey TE/DE 6-2 -252 JR 47 Mike McNair FB 6-0 242 so 48 Johnathan Hebert SE 5-11 199 SR 50 Cedric Hilliard DL 6-3 295 FR 51 Tyreo Harrison !LB 6-2 235 so 52 Jeff Faine OL 6-3 310 FR 53 Lamont Bryant DE 6-3 265 SR 54 B.J. Scott C 6-3 285 SR 55 Jim Jones 0G 6-3 307 SR 56 Pat Ryan LB 6-3 220 FR 56 John Crowther LS 6-2 245 so 57 Justin Thomas LB 6-2 230 FR 57 Luigi Rao LB 5-10 208 JR 58 Brendan O'Connor 0G 6-2 292 JR 60 • Darrell Campbell DL 6--4 245 so 61 Mike Zelenka FB 6-0 218 JR 62 Casey Robin OT 6-7 311 JR 63 Brennan Curtin OL 6-8 295 FR 63 Mike Tribe !LB 5-10 220 JR .. 64 John Merandi C 6-3 300 SR 65 Sean Milligan OL 6-4 285 FR 66 JW Jordan C 6-1 277 JR 
67 Ryan Gillis OL 6-3 315 FR 68 Matt Brennan OT 6-6 305 SR 69 Mike Gandy 0G 6-4 292 SR 70 Jim Molinaro DL 6-7 240 FR 71 NeilAmbron Ol 6-7 275 FR 72 Ryan Scarola Ol 6-:i 303 so 74 RobMowl 0G 6-5 295 SR 75 Kurt Vollers OT 6-7 299 JR 76 John Teasdale OT 6-6 306 JR 77 Brap Williams DT 6--4 288 SR 78 Jordan Black OT 6-6 313 so 79 Sean Mahan OT 6-4 285 so 80 Gary Godsey TE 6-7 255 FR 83 Patrick Reynolds WR 5-11 184 so 84 John Owens TE 6-3 246 FR 85 Antwon Jones DT 6-2 283 SR 85 Mark Rule WR/QB6-2 218 SR 86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 260 SR 87 Jabari Holloway TE 6-4 260 JR 88 Bobby Brown FL 6-2 193 SR 89 Gerald Morgan TE 6-4 261 so 90 lance Legree DT 6-1 296 SR 91 N. VanHook-Drucker DE 6-2 271 SR 94 Andy Wisne DT 6-3 270 JR 95 Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 260 so 98 Anthony Weaver DT o-3 270 so 98 Eric Glass DT 6-4 252 SR 99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 267 SR 
r~· 
12-Rsber 
2·5.·Driver 
. 
. 
-
FULLBACK 45-Goodspeed WLB 3Hopienskl 111-Flelds 
45-Tankll 
RIGHTGUARO 
119-GllltlY 
14•Mowl 
C~~ ! "MLB
M·Meranlll 92-loane -( 41-Bales
RIGHT TACKLE 
76-Taasdale 
fS
M~~-~~•
63-<:Urtin 
39-Wllllams 
18-Koootz
TIGHT END 
87•Holloway
86--0'Leary 
FLANKER 
ss
:~£
9-Nellon 37-Drnlel 
6-G!'lens 2-Franks 
SLB 40-An:nuletaLm End 55-Amalli 
t1-Yancy 
59•Wa1Un 

. RCORNER 
10-Harper 
~8-Dykes 
: 
'
·1 
15-leonard ' ~~ 4 
~ ~~.~r;.,,.~.­
TAILBACK ~ 
71{" .,,
21-Roarnnncl 
-•~."c-">.· ~ 
_!Hligtllowtlf 
. 
1•Smlltt 
43-Each STRONG 
SAFETY, 
5-Sander;; 
12·Smi91 
RIGHT TACKLE 
75-Lern -----.r.L= 
73-Schmidt 
TIGI-IT ENO 
BO-Heap 
BS-Bares 
FREE SAfflY t~er J 
20-Sapp 

1999 SUN DEVILS 
Schedule  
Sept. 6  TEXAS TECH  31-13  
Sept. 18  NEW MEXICO ST.  7-35  
Sept. 25  at California  23-24­ 
Oct. 2  UCLA  28-27  
Oct. 9  at Notre Dame  
Oct. 16  at Washington  
Oct. 23  WASHINGTON ST.  
Oct. 30  at Oregon  
Nov. 6  at USC  
Nov. 13  STANFORD  
Nov.27  ARIZONA  


eighth season at Arizona State 
career record: 
116-96-5 
at Arizona State: 
48-35 
Bruce Snyder against Notre head coach Dame: 0-1 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
1 Terrelle Smith FB 6-1 238 SR 2 Monte' Frank ss 6-1 206 fR 3 Delvon Flowers TB 5-11 185 JR 4 Justin Taplin WR 6-0 180 so 5 Kenny Williams CB 5-11 190 fR 5 Griffin Goodman QB 6-1 212 fR 6 Ryan Dennard WR 6-4 212 so 7 Richard Wit.Iiams WR 6-0 170 JR 8 Ryan Kealy QB 6-2 198 JR 9 Davaren Hightower TB 6-1 214 so 10 Eric Fields LB 6-3 231 so 10 Brian Biang 5-11 192 FR
p 11 Brian Reisenauer SE 6-2 190 JR 12 Brian Forth WR 5-11 182 JR 14 Matt Cooper QB 6-5 228 FR 14 Dalen Ware CB 5-11 190 FR 15 Jamel Ready CB 5-10 188 SR 15 John Leonard QB 6-2 197 so 16 Stephen Baker P/PK 5-11 209 so 17 Courtney Hysaw CB 5-10 190 so 17 Ruger Fontes QB 6-3 190 FR 18 Craig Koontz FS 6-0 192 JR 18 Jason Anderson QB 6-2 206 JR 19 Royce Coachman WR 6-0 200 JR 20 Gerald Green TB 5-9 190 SR 21 J-R. Redmond TB 6-0 220 SR 22 M.R. Krupa EiC 5-11 170 s~ 22 Courtney Palmore FS 5-11 185 so 23 Courtney Jackson CB 6-1 193 SR 24 Nijrell Eason CB 6-1 204 JR 25 Mike Aguirre WR 5-11 196 JR 26 Kareem Clark CB 5-10 189 SR 27 Mike Vanegas SE 4-7 102 SR 28 -Travis Gimse WR 5-Y 185 FR 28 Patrick Wilson DB 5-10 195 FR 29 Brandon Falkner FS 5-11 185 FR 29 Greg Pieratt K 6-0 165 FR 30 Stephen Trejo !LB 6-3 250 JR 31 Christon Rance CB 6-2 206 JR 32 J.R. Pcroulis TB 6-1 195 FR 32 James Dunn CB 5-10 180 so 33 CGaughen VE 7-4 240 SR 34 Jerry Schwartzburg RB 5-10 213 FR 35 Nick Murphy p 6-0 190 FR 35 Josiah Igono CB 5-9 176 FR 36 Erik Flowers DL 6-5 253 SR 37 Willie Daniel ss 6-0 203 so 38 Roderick Denetso WR 5-8 180 JR 39 Alfred Williams FS 6-1 199 FR 40 Adam Archuleta OLB 6-0 213 JR 41 Solomon Bates LB 6-2 251 FR 42 Kyran Jones TB 6-0 170 FR 43 Jake Each FB 6-1 248 so 44 Kevin Datum PE 6-3 310 SR 45 Adam Tanke LB 6-2 231 JR 46 Stephen Garcia FB 6-0 229 JR 47 Darrel Turner FB 6-0 237 FR 48 Quentin Jones LB 6-0 213 so 49 Joe Meuller GE 5-11 195 SR 51 Jamal! Anderson LB 6-1 245 JR 52 Mason Unck LB 6-2 221 FR 53 Scott Peters Ol 6-3 312 so 54 Eddie Clattenburg LB 5-10 212 JR 55 Josh Arnobi LB 6-2 207 FR 56 Jay Breckinridge LB 6-4 211 FR 57 M'Shan Ryan ME 6-5 258 SR 59 Kurt Wallin DL 6-2 273 so 61 Ryan Delnoce OL 6-2 268 JR 63 Korey Ramsey OL 6-3 277 JR 64 K. O'Brien ASE 5-9 132 JR 65 Tim Casey SW 6-8 210 JR 66 M.McVoy ASE 6-5 285 JR 67 E. Laruffa SW 6-3 256 FR 68 Kaleb Ramsay OL 6-3 290 JR 69 Kyle Kosier 01. 6-6 290 so 70 Regis Crawford 01. 6-3 291 FR 71 Marvel Smith Ol 6-6 314 JR 72 Bill Uniowski ANE 6-0 180 SR 73 Thomas Schmidt OL 6-6 308 SR 74 A.J. Boyd AVE 6-2 275 SR 75 Victor Leyva 01. 6-4 303 JR 76 Kenneth Williamson Ol 6-4 314 JR 78 Levi Jones OL 6-6 305 so 79 Marquise Muldrow Ol 6-3 327 JR 80 Todd Heap TE 6-5 232 so 81 Shaun McDonald WR 5-9 168 FR 84 Tariq McDonald WR 6-1 181 JR 85 .Kendrick Bates TE 6-6 242 SR 86 Mike Pinkard DL 6-5 243 FR 87 Brian Jennings TE 6-5 238 SR 88 Finn Pressly ANE 6-1 150 JR 89 Jason l\.foore TE 6-6 239 JR 90 Che' Britton DL 6-1 268 SR 91 Quincy Yancy DI. 6-8 262 JR 92 Junior Ioane DL 6-4 304 SR 93 Elza Gennicks DL 6-5 230 so 95 Ryan Reilly DL 6-2 312 SR 96 Jawell Samilton DL 6-2 283 SR 97 J.L Krupa BS 5-11 170 FR 98 James Beal DL 6-1 277 FR . OL
99 Tommie Townsend 6-2 290 so 
Friday, October 8, 1999  page 5The Observer . IRISH INSIDER . --­---­------_:::-_-_-_-_ -_-_-_-___:::-_-~----------::::::::::::::::::::::::===========-=---=--=---=---=---=--=  
EYE ON THE ENEMY  

Versatile Redmond leads Sun Devils against Irish 
By TIM CASEY Sporrs Writer 
Despite playing with an injured shoulder and an ankle sprain in last week's 28-27 vic­tory over UCLA, J.R. Redmond rushed for 185 yards and accounted for three touch­downs. 
That kind of effort does not come as a surprise to Notre Dame defensive coordinator Greg Mattison. ' 
"He's a tough kid," Mattison said. "He's a little banged up but. he keeps playing. You've got to respect a back like that." 
Redmond earned the respect of coaches and players in his last two seasons at Arizona State. A second team A5sociated Press All-American a year ago, the speedy Redmond has not disappointed this fall. 
Thus far this year, Redmond has averaged 119.5 yards per game on the ground. Also a punt returner and pass catching threat for the Sun Devils, Redmond averages 139.8 all­purpose yards a game. 
While most tailbacks are 
fast facts 
ABOUT ARIZONA STATE 
known to shy away from con­tact, Redmond is not afraid to run the ball between the tackles. 
"He's not your typical tailback that just runs to the sidelines and outruns everybody," Mattison said. "He makes hard yards inside. But if he gets an opportunity, he can break away. He's also probably one of the fastest backs in the country right now." 
Redmond's break-away speed was never more apparent than in a midseason game against Stanford last year. In that con­test Redmond scored three touchdowns in the first quarter. Included among his scores were a 58-yard run and a 76-yard punt return. He had to leave the game due to a sprained right ankle and injured left toe, which hindered him the rest of the sea­son. 
Despite the injury, Redmond's 
155.8 all-purpose yards per game topped the Pac-10. He also led the conference in punt return average while ranking fifth in rushing. 
Although the Irish face the likes of Tennessee's Jamal Lewis and the wishbone attack 
. 
Location: Tempe, Ariz. . Enrollment: 44,255 

. 
Colors: maroon and gold 

. 
Nickname: Sun Devils 

. 
Conference: Pac 10 

. 
Fight song: "Maroon and Gold" 


of Navy in the coming weeks, Mattison said Redmond is as good as any of them. 
"He's by far the best back we've gone against thus far," Mattison said. "He'll probably be the best running back we'll play this year." 
Bob Davie said Hedmond has the skills to be a first round NFL draft choice in the spring. 
"Redmond, without a doubt, is maybe the first running back to be drafted next year," Davie said at Tuesday's press confer­ence. "I don't really know what else is out there. He's definitely a first-round draft choice." 
Redmond is not the only Sun Devil that concerns the Irish coaching staff. 
Quarterback Ryan Kealy has rebounded from a sub-par 1998 season with a solid campaign. The junior has completed 55 percent of his passes for 397 yards and a pair of touchdowns. 
Junior receivers Tariq McDonald and Richard Williams are Kealy's main targets. McDonald ranks first on the team with 14 catches while Williams has 11 receptions on the year and two touchdowns. 

. Arizona State travels to Notre Dame Stadium for the first time. 
. The Irish stretched their series­opener winning streak to six with their 28-9 win over the Sun Devils last year in Tempe. 

Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
Given J.R. Redmond's heroics, it was no wonder UCLA over­looked Delvon Flowers last Saturday. 
Redmond's backup took a screen pass 49 yards for the decisive touchdown with 23 sec­onds left as Arizona State con­tinued its recent dominance of the Bruins with a 28-27 victory Saturday. Arizona State has won six of the last seven meetings. 
Flowers, who had touched the ball only three times in the game until then, broke outside to score untouched, and Stephen Baker, who missed a chance to tie it earlier with a field goal. split the uprights with the extra point to complete the comeback. 
UCLA had the final chance in an action·-filled final minute that saw 10 points scored. 
Cory Paus threw a short pass to Brad Melsby, who tried to lat­eral to Keith Brown. The pitch went awry, and Arizona State's Nijrell Eason covered the fumble to preserve the win. 
Redmond had 185 yards on 23 carries and scored on runs of 32 and 80 yards and a 1-yard reception for the Sun Devils (2-2. 1-1 Pac-10), who broke a two­game losing streak and sent the Bruins (2-3, 0-2) to their second straight loss. 
Brown gained 182 yards on 24 attempts and scored on 50-and 2-yard runs, Paus hooked up with Danny Farmer for an 85­yard TD, and Chris Griflith had field goals of 20 and 46 yards for the Bruins -the second with 53 seconds remaining. 
ARIZONA STATE REVIEW 
Flowers' catch pushes Arizona State past UCLA 
Griffin, a third-stringer, came on after UCLA sacked Arizona State's Ryan Kealy twice, forcing him from the game, and replacement John Leonard proved ineffective. Kealy, who has bruised ribs, was unable to finish for the fifth time in his last six starts dating back to last year. 
Griffin threw a costly intercep­tion on his first attempt. 
Ryan Nece returned it 11 yards to the Arizona State 31­yard line, and Griffith's first field goal sent UCIA into a 24-14 lead 
1:25 into the fourth quarter. 
But Goodman took advantage when the Sun Devils got a break -safety Alfred Williams knocked the ball loose from Jermaine Lewis, and Solomon Bates recovered on the UCLA I 4-yard line. Four plays later, Goodman threw to Redmond in the flat, and he scored easily· with 8:13 remaining. 
The Sun Devils got the ball back on an interception by Adam Archuleta, but Baker pushed a 44-yard field goal attempt left with 4:34 left. Griffith capped UClA's next pos­session with a field goal. 
The Sun Devils went 80 yards to victory in four plays -an I I ­yard Goodman pass to Tariq McDonald, a 20-yard throw to Todd Heap, an incompletion and the screen to Flowers. 
Farmer moved past Kevin Jordan into first on UCLA's career receiving-yardage ljst. He finished the game with six grabs for 148 yards and a career total of 2,651. His scoring catch was the sixth-longest in UCLt\ histo­ry. 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 8, 1999 
Irish experts 

Brian Kessler spor1s editor 
(13-7) 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN FLORIDA STATE TENNESSEE 

Bill Hart 
associate editor 
(14-6) 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN STATE FLORIDA STATE TENNESSEE 

Mike Connolly 
associate editor 
(13-7) 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN FLORIDA STATE TENNESSEE 

Tim Casey 
football writer 
(15-5) NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN FLORIDA STATE TENNESSEE 
AROUND THE NATION 

line in East Lansing 
By BILL HART Associate Spores Editor 
A week after extending its winning streak to 10 in a win over Purdue, third­ranked Michigan travels to East Lansing for a battle with its archrival -No. 11 Michigan State. 
This year's battle for the Paul Bunyan trophy could be the deciding factor in who will take the conference title as both the Wolverines and Spartans sit atop the Big Ten leader board with identical 5-0 records and two conference victories apiece. 
The Wolverine defense proved up to the task of taking on a ranked foe on last week, when it held the then-No. 10 Boilermakers ,to 12 points -well below their 41-point season average. 
Purdue quarterback Drew Brees was sacked twice, intercepted once and held to a single touchdown. 
The Michigan offense was led by 250 passing yards from quarterback Tom Brady, and a 116-yard day from running back Anthony Thomas. 
Thomas might find it more difficult to run against the Spartans, however, who lead the nation in run defense with 42.8 yards allowed per game. 
The Spartan offense and defense are coming off a strong game against the Iowa Hawkeyes. 
In last week's 49-3 rout of Iowa, MSU scored touchdowns on each of their first five possessions, and later set a school record with six touchdown passes for the game. 
An 86-yard kickoff return in the third quarter marked the only time the Hawkeyes were able to pass the MSU 40­yard line. . 
The Spartan offense is led by receivers Plaxico Burress and Gari Scott. Together, they have accounted for 606 receiving yards, more than half of the team's total. 
In the last meeting between these two teams, the Spartans jumped out to an early 10-3 lead to end the first quarter before the \Volverines had five of the final six scores and held the visitors scoreless in the second half to pick up the win, 29-17. 
No. 1 Florida State vs. No. 19 Miami 
The Miami Hurricanes, back in the national limelight once again, are hoping to get back on the right foot after two straight losses to ranked opponents. Unfortunately, traveling to Tallahassee to face the top-ranked Seminoles will not provide the Hurricanes with any relief. 
Miami's hopes for a top-10 ranking were partially destroyed by, ironically enough, Hurricane Floyd. Two weeks ago, a game against East Carolina was moved due to damage to the original playing field. 
In the battle between the then-No. 9 Hurricanes and Pirates, ECU scored the final 24 points of the game en route to a 27-23 victory. The upset followed a loss the week before to No. 2 Penn State by the same score. 
Top-ranked FSU, on the other hand, is playing in its first non-conference game of the season against a ranked opponent, after beating up on the likes of Louisiana Tech, North Carolina and winless Duke. 
Last week against the Blue Devils, the Seminoles coasted to a 44-0 halftime lead, mostly due to three touchdowns by FSU's Peter Warrick, a possible Heisman candi­date. Warrick has accounted for 600 yards and 42 points of offense in five games. 
No. 6 Tennessee vs. No. 10 Georgia 
The Bulldogs travel to Knoxville for an epic battle with possible SEC title implica­tions, against the defending, but not unde­feated, national champion Vols. 
While Georgia carries a 4-0 record and first place in SEC West, its last two victo­ries -against unranked opponents ­were by just one point. Even less impres­sive is the Georgia offense, which failed to score more than three touchdowns against Central Florida, L5U and South Carolina. 
On the other hand, the Volunteers are beginning to show dents in the armor that was so impenetrable a year ago. After a 23-21 loss to third-ranked Florida, it took a touchdown with one minute remaining to defeat Memphis, 17-16. 
Even in a 24-0 win over Auburn, Volunteer quarterback Tee Martin threw three interceptions while passing for just over 200 yards. 
ti .......... Florida State (64) z Penn Stale (5) · a.. Michigan 
4 Nebraska 
5 Virginia Tech (1) 6 Tenneuee 7 Georgia Tecll 
{:;:}ti~:~:!:!State
•. ·10 ··•··· Georgia 
11 Mlchtgan State 12 Alabama 13 Texas A&M 14 Mississippi State 15 Marshall 16 fast Carolina 17 Purdue 
···• 18 Syracuse
&.J,.. f4ianti (Fla.) ~I: 20 ·•·· Wisconsin
.:L. 21 ··'?liijio State 
@>22 use 
23 · Texas 24 ·BYU 25 t-,lnnesota 
\tw~ff11;.

5-o' 
s+tr .·*!J"'~ •·· 
.4...fl •3;..1> 
.. ··.• 3•l.· 
. ·:l:l?r>tt ·•{:fM
i...,.o·· 1,145 
5-0 1,111 4-1 858 3-1 855 5·0 851 5,.0 692 
5-0 690 
itr .:: 
. 2:..1 •;~:i• 487.•..
:lfz~/"''i:
4-f .\ 218 2,.1 121 . 4-0 102 
other teams receiving votes; Mississippi 95, Wyoming 48, Oklahoma 43, Air Force 30, Pittsburgh 21, Arkansas 19, Boston College 17, Virginia 17, Southern Miss, 13, NOTRE DAME 12, Kentucky 9, Washington 9 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 8 9 
1O 11 12 
13 14 15 
15 
17 
18 19 20 
21 
22 23 
24 
25 
~':/~ts 
1.&12.· · 1,&06 
1.537 
. 1,427 
1.346 1,294 
. ESPN/USA Today poll 
team 
Florida State (53) Penn State (6) 
Michigan 
Nebraska Virginia Tech Tennessee 
Florida Georgia Tech Georgia 
Kansas State Michigan State TexasA&M Mississippi State Alabama Marshall Purdue Syracuse East Carolina Ohio State Wisconsin Miami (fla.) USC Texas 
BYU 
Mississippi 
.record points 
5',0 1,469 
5-0 1,409 s~o 1,351 s-o 1,308 4-0 1,218 3-1 1,129 4-1 1,015 3-1 1,012 4·0 1,002 4-0 983 5-0 928 3·1 775 5-0 771 4-1 605 5-0 561 4·1 561 4-1 543 5-0 503 3-2 415 2-2 313 3·1 308 3-1 305 
4-2. 
207 3-1 119 4-1 69 
other t<.>ams receiving z1otes: Arkansas 51,
Michigan at Michigan State.11 a.m., ABC 
Boston College 40, Minnesota 32, Virginia 22, Air
around 
Georgia at Tennessee.... 6:30 p.m., ESPN 
Force 19, Missouri 18, Oklahoma 16, Colorado St. 16,
Wisconsin at Minnesota.. 11 ;1.m., ESPJV2 
Stanford 15, Oregon 13, Maryland 10, Wyoming 9,
Clemson at N.C. State...... 7 p.m.., ESPN2 
Texas Tech 8. Kentucky 6, NOTRE DAME 6
the dial Purdue at Ohio State ........2:30 p.m., ABC 
Friday, October 8, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER. page 7 
the inside edge 
records: 2-3 
A.P. rank: NR coach's poll: NR
-
records: 2-2 
A.P. rank: NR
ASl 
coach's poll: NR 
Series Record 
Notre Dame leads Arizona State 
I-0 
-
EVEN 
ct 
•1 
quarterbacks: Jackson came into his own last week against Oklahoma with a tough all-around performance. Kealy played well last year, but is getting over surgery. 
running backs: Notre Dame has yet to devel­op consistency in this area, but could surprise people. Redmond is ASU's main target. 
receivers: Williams has good hands, and Redmond can catch as well as run the ball. Getherall and Hunter are hot for the Irish. 
offensive line: The Irish 
are young and unpre­
dictable, but the Sun 
Devils also have three 
returning starters. 
EVEN 
EVEN 
EVEN 
defensive line: Flowers 
was an All-American in junior college. and loane is known for fore­ing back other teams . 
offenses. The Irish have a very experienced squad at this position. 
linebackers: Notre Dame has four tough line­backers in Nicks, Harrison, Denman and Boiman. Archuleta is a dominant force for the Sun Devils. 
secondary: The Sun 
Devils have a top cor­
nerback in Courtney 
Jackson. Secandary 
players Sanders and 
Jefferson lead the Irish 
in tackles this season. 
special teams: This unit 
nearly gave away the 
Irish victory against 
MU 
the Sooners with missed field goals. penalties and mistakes. Baker is not playing at the same level as last year, but Redmond can break out on the return. 
coaching: Despite limit­ed success the past two 
AS( years, Snyder was 1996 National Coach of the Year. Davie, mean­while, has fans calling for his job and compar­ing him to Gerry Faust. 
intangibles: The Sun Devils have lost five of 
ct 
their last six games on the road. The Irish have momentum after a strong second half against the Sooners. 
-

Overall 
This game may be reminiscent of last week's battle between the Irish and the Sooners. Arizona State will have the advantage of the revenge factor, but Notre Dame is on its home field and looking for respect. Victory should ultimately go to the team which has bet­ter ball control and comes out ready to play. 
IRISH EXCHANGE 
Irish save best for end of season 
.The Irish hope last 
Saturday's game against 
Oklahoma is exactly how 
their season will turn out. 
A quick strike to get off to 
a 7-0 
start on 
their · first 
drive, 
quickly 
silen­
ced by 
a 
return 
touch­
down 
by 
Okla­
homa. 
Then,a 
missed 
field 
goal and a botched punt 
that led to a Sooner safety 
helped them build a 30-14 
in the third. 
Yep, sounds like the Irish season so far. What started with talks of a National Championship and a con­vincing win against Kansas had hardly been digested by Irish fans before a trio of Big Ten teams turned Notre Dame's promising season into a train wreck. 
But the team that started out the campaign being crit­icized for lacking the heart and desire to win turned it around against the Sooners to mount the biggest Irish comeback since 1986. Irish fans can't help but think that last Saturday's game is a sign of things to come. 
After all, only the leader at the end of the game wins. 
And as Bob Davie has said many times in the past, "They don't ever remember what you do in September. they may not remember what you do in October, but they·r·e definitely remember what you do in November." 
It took a number of memo­rable career performances from the Irish to turn the game around last weekend. Performances like Jarious Jackson's 15-for-21 passing for 276 yards and 106 yards on the ground and Joey Getherall's 6 receptions for 133 yards showed that these upp~rclassmen's better days are not behind them. 
Add the breakout games ­for younger players like running back Tony fisher and corner Clifford Jefferson, and the Irish have a team that can score three unanswered touchdowns. But numbers alone don't win football games -the Irish have firsthand experi­ence with that. 


The three Irish losses this season had more to do with the lack of drive than an inability to post decent sta­tistics. How else could one explain losses to now No. 3 Michigan and No. 17 Purdue by five and four points, respectively. This week, finally, the heart was there and nothing could hold back the Irish. 
"I said we've got to get this victory," Jackson said after the comeback victory. "I said if I have to put an IV 
in my arm after the game, 
we're going to get this victo­
ry." 
Certainly Jackson's reac­
tion this week was a little 
more positive than the 
silence he gave the media 
after the previous weeks' 
loses. 
Nothing to say, yet every­
thing to prove during that 
stretch for the Irish. With 
the losing streak broken and 
another chance to build con­
fidence with Arizona State 
this weekend, the Irish can 
put together a team that will 
be remembered in . November. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe allthor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ASU needs better play from quarterbacks 
After their miraculous 28-27 
nail-biter over UCIA, the Sun 
Devils should consider two pre­
game coin-flips. 
One, of course, would be of the 
traditional 
"This team 
Doug Flanagan
kicks and 
that team 
defends that 
goal" vari­State News 
ety. Sports Editor 
· The sec­
ond would 
determine ASU's starting quarter­
back. 
Heads could be John Leonard. 
Tails could be Griffin Goodman. 
And if the coin somehow lands on 
its side, Bruce Snyder could go 
with Ryan Kealy since the odds of 
that happening roughly equate to 
those of Ryan actually finishing an 
entire quarter injury-free. 
It wouldn't make one bit of dif­
ference, because there isn't one bit 
of difference between the three. 
All struggle to complete 50 per­
cent of their throws but are 
incredibly adept at completing 
passes to players on opposing 
teams. 
\Vhen ASU wins, it's rarely 
because of stellar QB play. If 
you're a Sun Devil signal caller, 
your playbook cover likely bears a 
24-karat engraving which bears 
the phrase, "Don't screw it up." 
It's what's known throughout 
NFL circles as the "Trent Dilfer 
Effect," a measure popularized­
albeit not incredibly successfully ­
by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. 
They try to grind out as much 
yardage as possible on the ground, 
pass only when absolutely neces­
sary and hope the defense can 
hold up to eke out a win. 
It works for the Bucs because 
they have Warrick Dunn, Mike 
Alstott and one of the league's best 
defenses. When it works for ASU, 
it's because of the J.H. Redmond, 
the whole J.R. Redmond and noth­
ing but the J.H. Redmond. 
ASU football stops and starts with No. 21, the man whose sepa­rated left shoulder won't fully heal as long as he's forced to carry his team on his back. 
After an awesome 185-yard day that included scoring runs of 80 and 32 yards -in addition to a 1­yard touchdown catch -the tail­back and true team player called what transpired on Saturday a "team effort" and commended his quarterbacks. 
'Tm proud of all the quarter­backs' effort," Redmond said. "Quarterback is the most impor­tant position in this game -if they're not in sync or they're not playing good, then it's pretty hard to have a good game collectively as a whole team. And every quarter­back that got a chance to play 
........,
today did good." 
No they didn't. They all did "not terrible." They didn't "screw it up," and just barely, at that. 
"I had a rough start," Goodman said when asked about relieving Leonard. "But the coaches never gave up on me. Coach [John] Pettas told me to keep my head up. He had faith in my and knew I could do it. It's the story of this game -never quit, always believe in it, and if you do, good things are gonna happen." 
Yes they will. But only if Redmond breaks off two or three ridiculously amazing runs and puts points on the board. Because otherwise, the options are few and far between. 
Todd Heap, Kendrick Bates, Tariq McDonald and Richard Williams can all catch, but there's a catch: someone still has to throw them the ball. 
Thus far, ASU's three-headed quarterbacking monster has com­bined for four touchdowns and six interceptions. It begs one to won­der, "Why recruit so many quality skill position players, and such marginal quarterbacks?" 
How 'bout it Bruce? 
'Tm so parochial, I want to play one guy, and I want to play him until the game's won," Snyder said. "That's me. In 20 years as·a head coach, that's what I like to do, so this is odd for me too, and I think it must be a bit awkward for the quarterbacks, themselves." 
Next season, let's just have one quarterback. 
" 
Recruit a guy who can actually start consecutive games and devel­op some offensive chemistry, not unlike what Jake Plummer did while at ASU. 
To be a good team, to beat good teams, you need a good quarter­back. You need a balanced team with a balanced offense. 
But that's next year. This year, you might as well be flipping a coin, rolling dice, throwing darts or spinning an imaginary wheel 
o'quarterbacks. 
The vie_ws expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 8, 1999 
l \ 
i 
! 

. ,('._. 

-.r--•·· .· --~ . -·,· ·. ~:~ ·;_x-.. ·:. ::r:: .·, 
Beginning in September, UNO.com will offer a subscription service called the Irish Insider. 
The Insider will feature: 
• 
Bi-Weekly Bob Davie Column •c ......,,~•-­

• 
Game Analysis 

• 
Player Diaries 

• 
Previews 

• 
Video Playbook from the Coach's Edge 

• 
Exclusive Irish Features 


Also included in the Insider Package: 
• 
Weekly Ticket Giveaways for Football and Men's Basketball Games 

• 
Big East Tournament Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Bowl Game Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Discounts and Coupons for the Notre Dame Online Store 


r 
Become an Irish Insider!! 
Sign up to become an Irish Insider and receive a Notre Dame t-shirt! The first 500 subscribers will receive a Notre Dame football yearbook! 


The Irish Insider at UNO.com is not affiliated with The Observer. 
' 
~ I 
I. t r ~ 
-. 








