
Travelin' Man 
Green monster swallows Indians 
Notre Dame alum and travel writer Ryan Ver 
Boston eyes a decisive fifth game after 

Monday
Bermoes reflects on Notre Dame. Burger King 
smashing Cleveland 23-7.. 
and Baywatch. 
Sports . page 19 
OCTOBER 11, 
Scene . page 14 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 33 

BACK ON THE SIDELINES 

Photo courtesy of Christopher Lux 
Notre Dame legend Ara Parseghian toined the Siegfried Hall marching band Sunday in their matchup against Zahm. Parsegh1an coached the Irish from 1964 to 1974. 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Congressman reflects. on violence in Ireland 
. U.S. holds critical role in solving crisis in Northern Ireland 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associace Spores Editor 
The United States' role as a mediator in the conflict in Northern Ireland can serve as Lhe model for future diplomatic resolutions in other parts of the world, according to Congressman Peter King. 
Americans have a "moral influence, diplomatic influence and the power of persuasion by being the most powerful democracy in the world," and this influence can be used to bring about peace in trou­bled situations, King said. 
U.S. influence has brought about the Good Friday Peace Accord and a temporary cease fire on both sides in the ongo­ing Northern Ireland conflict. All these breakthroughs came without troops, bombings or extra money spent by the gov­()rnment. This is the kind of role the U.S. should play in future negations in areas of conflict, King said. 
He said that Clinton is tlrn 
perfect  kind  of  person  f'or  
resolving  the  conflict  in  
Northern Ireland.  

"When you have the most dysfunctional political system in Western Europe, who better to understand it than Bill Clinton'?" he said. 
Under Clinton's leadership, the United States has taken an active role in the conflict in Northern Ireland. Before Clinton, most presidents were unwilling to go against the United Kingdom. a major U.S. ally, and thereforn could not effectively work for peacn in Northern Ireland, King said. Past administrations had been so concerned with offending the United Kingdom that they did not allow the congressional ad hoc committee on Irish affairs -which King co-chairs -into the White House. 

"When you have the most dysfunctional political system in Western Europe. who better to understand it than Bill Clinton?" 
Peter King 
U.S. Congressman 
Due to the more active role that the 
U.S. 
has played in N o r t h lrnland. p e a c e accords and cease fires have been reached. When the 

U.S. 
became involved, the British gov­



ernment changed its position toward Northern Ireland. 
"The British could no longer say that the troubles were a law and order issue," King said. "It became an international issue because the U.S. got involved." 
King has been involved with Irish affairs ever sinco he first held public office. Ile was com­pelled to speak out when he realized the extent to which thn American governnwnt has stayed out of' the conflict. For example, Irish nationalist lnad­ers such as Gerry /\dams wnrn refused American visas, hP said. 
"If' you hold a public oflko, if you hold a title, pnopln listen to 
see KING/page 4· 

·-·-~====-====================================================================-============= 


Building on tradition: Legacies thrive at Notre DaIDe 
By SAM DERHEIMER 
News Writer 
t\n alumnus tos.,es a football down South Quad to his 6-yuar­old son on a sunny fall after­noon. 
It's a Notre Dam() sight all­too-familiar to every student. ll's a Notre Danw tradition stu­dents know will one day become a reality for them as well. 
Many students dream of the timl' when it will be their turn to bring their kids back to Notre Dame for their chance to play a little prc-gamo catch. 
The unusual thing is, for an exceptionally large perc(Jntage or students, it is a drt>am already achieved -011ly from the other perspective. 

As applications from the Class of 2004 start arriving, the admissions office will undoubt­edly receive many applications from students already well aware of the traditions inherent in the name Notre Dame. And a lot of them will be accepted. 
Twenty-three percent of the current undergraduate are not the first from their families to attend Notre Dame. The Irish, in fact, boast one of the largest legacy tallies in the nation. Only schools such as Stanford, Princeton, Yale and Harvard knowing what it means to be a have legacy numbers that am part of the Notre Dame family. on the same level as Notre From expr)ricnce, we've already 
Dame. 
And these legacies have a very signif­icant role in the Notre Dame com­munity.
kso much of our school spirit comes from the legacies," 

"/ was always attracted to that f amity aspect of Notre Dame I had always heard about." 
Dane Rodriguez sophomore 
learned to love Notre Dame, and it kind of like becomes our job to teach those who don't understand yet." 
Such an atmosphere growing up can not help but breed excep­

said sophomore Luke Ratke, a tionally high expectations. second-generation legacy. "For me, all my expectations "These kids come in already were met," Ratke said, "but I know other fJeople, basically programmed sincP birth. camn in with expectations so unbr)­lievably high, nothing could have met them." 
"Personally, I think it's a good thing,"· said sophomore Dane Rodriguez, who is not a legacy, "I knew there would be a lot of tradition coming in, and I was attracted to that family aspect of Notre Dame I had always heard about." 
Some students have a slightly more negative view. An O'Neill Hall freshman, who wished to keep his anonymity, questioned 
see LEGACY/page 4 


. ­

page 2 , The Observer . INSIDE Monday, October 11, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A 'friend'ly 
ren1inder 
Frieudi, are complicated things to have. They make you laugh, they make you cry. they make you crazy. And when they really do their job well, tl1ey make you think. 
lt is one of life's amazing miracles to sit down with a friend and talk. Just talk, about anything, everything. When it happens, it's magic. 
A human connection is made that is almost unex­plainable (but I'll try any­way). 

This connection is not 

Christine Kraly

made easily. It only occurs with those people you look forward to seeing, miss when they're gone and share Associate inside jokes with. They're News Editor the people you pay hard­earned money to fly to see on breaks and the ones you pay big phone bills to talk to. They're the ones you just "click" with. 
We had these people in our lives during high school. We may still have them from days long gone. They are the links to our past and the great memories that can never be replicated or replaced and we should never forget them. They're forming these new, important bonds too. We think of them. they think ofus and sometimes that's just enough. 
What's important is that we appreciate these people while we have them. And I suppose I don't want to feel guilty that I haven't talked to my best friend from high school in nearly a month because I've been trying to spend as much time having a life here as I can. She's having fun; I'm having fun -what's the big deal? 
We need our friends all the time. It's not just the late-night talks or the beer runs that make memories. It's all the time. Studying together, crying together or eating in the dining hall. These are all precious moments. (After all, the dining hall is where you get those great "Did-you-see­Friend-X-drop-her-drink on-that-guy?-He-was­so-mad" stories.} 
But we need to remember that a friend is more than the person you see on the quad and offer the trite "Hey, how are ya?" and "Good, you?" They are shoulders to lean on, hands bearing tis­sues and sources of more laughter than you can imagine. Who else would kneel with you and hold your hair back with pride than a true friend? 
A friend: 

•is 
a therapist. 


•knows 
your favrite candy. 

•leaves 
you random cards for inspiration or 


just for a good laugh. •apologizes. 

•knows 
your fears. 

•can't 
wait to see you. 


•is 
your mother, father, brother, sister. 


•makes 
you smile, even when you don't want to. 

•wakes 
you up at 4:15 for practice. 

•knows 
they don't need an invitation. 

•goes 
to Mass with you. •loans you $20. 


•leaves 
the light on for you at 5 a.m. 

•doesn't 
insult you. 

•lets 
things go. 


•makes 
you comfortable. 



•doesn't 
send "win money by forwarding this" forwards. 

•doesn't 
want to say "goodbye." 

•wants 
to hear "I love you." So tell them. You know you're thinking of them. Go, tell them. Now. 




The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Finn Pressly  Amanda Greco  
Maureen Smithe  Graphics  
Erin LaRuffa  Scotr Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Bill Hart  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nessbaum  Tom Larimer  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi,h,d Monday through Friday ex~pt during ex:1.m and vacadon periods. Thc:-Obscrvl"'r is a miembcr ofthe ,\s,ociatcd Prcu. All reproduction rights an, reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Art Show Opening:  . Latin American Night:  
Original ND/SMC student  Keenan-Stanford Chapel,  
·artwork, Reckers, 7 p.m.  8 p.m.  
. Film:  "Grease,"  . Lecture: Rev. John  
Annenberg Auditorium,  Sobrino, "Martyrdom in  
7 p.m.  America," McKenna Ha!l,  
. Mass:  Bishop John  7:30 p.m.  
D'Arcy, Basilica, 5 p.m.  

Compiled-from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Nike releases locations of college apparel factories 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Nike released a partial list of its college apparel production facilities for five universities. The list came in response Thursday to protests on college campuses across the nation last year. Nike released fac­tory lists for Georgetown University, the University of Arizona, Duke L:niversity, the University of Michigan and the University of North Carolina. 
Nike released the locations of 39 factories that produce Georgetown apparel in Bangladesh, China, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Taiwan, Thailand and the United States. 
Georgetown Solidarity Committee president senior Laura McSpedon said that the group is "really excit­ed about [the disclosure) ... it's a 
Police arrest NYU library thief 
NEW YORK 
A man accused of hoarding 570 overdue books from New York University's Bobst Library, incurring $31,000 in fines, was arrested Monday and charged with grand larceny and criminal possession of stolen property, police said. George Szamuely, 44, was arrested at a SoHo gym. Police also raided his Stanton Street apart­ment Monday and recovered the mostly history and political science books that were checked out in 1997, offcials said. The figure of $31,000 was calculated by adding up fines of a 25 cents per day, $1 per day for recalled books, and $20 in processing and fines plus the cost of each book after fifty days, New York University spokesman John Beckman ~aid. The university made several attempts over the last two years to retrieve the books from Szamuely, a freelance writer for the New York Press, who was a continuing education student at the university from 1993 to 1997. "We made many attempts here to ask for the books but he either spurned us or ignored us," Beckman said. After the matter was referred to the university's general counsel, the police were called to resolve the situation. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Monday Tuesday 
F.ri....,
"~--1. 

r/fA~-~~W8 ~~a 
Sho..,,rs T-stom,s Rain Flurries ~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy C/oudy V•~~tt,d Prtt~ Grapt)Qtwl 
"Now the hard part is to go about correcting the problems in these factories. " 
Laura McSpedon president, Georgetown Solidarity Committee 
really good first step, but there is a lot more to do." 
"Now the hard part is to go about correcting the problems in these factories," she said. 
Nike also released profiles of selected factories in North Carolina, Bangladesh and China. For example, in the profile of a headwear factory where Georgetown apparel is produced in Dada, Bangladesh, Nike said that 
Princeton profs visit White House 
PRINCETON, N.J. 

Three Nobel Prize winners in the Princeton University physics department -Dean of the Faculty Joseph Taylor, professor Philip Anderson and professor emeri­tus Val Fitch -were among nine scientists who met with President Clinton Wednesday to express support for the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. The president hopes to see the treaty ratified by the Senate sometime this term. According to Fitch, the treaty would prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons worldwide and provide for an increase in the number of censors around the globe used to identify and classify nuclear activity. Both Anderson and Fitch said they were impressed with the president's understanding of the issues at stake. The three men said they spent about two hours in the White House, including an hour-and-a­half in the company of the president, who addressed the group for about 20 minutes. "He spoke extemporane­ously and touched on issues not previously mentioned," Anderson said. "Clearly he had thought some on the issue for himself." Both Fitch and Anderson said they had visited the White House on previous occasions. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather"" forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 11. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
C 1999 Ace;uWeathor, Inc..  COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  
P'rNIUfl: ® ©  . E'.JG::JDc:JJCJ  .l'fiio, .~a,  
Hl9h  Low  Shower•  Rain  l•11orma  Flurrifta  Snow  11;,e  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
v,a AssOda/ed Praas  
Atlanta  79  62  Las Vegas  91  63  Phoenix  103 71  
Battimore  70  47  Memphis  80  59  Sacramento  80  53  
Boston  70  56  Milwaukee  60  47  St. Louis  74  55  
Chicago  66  45  New York  68  49  Tampa  88  69  
Houston  86  65  Philadelphia  70  49  Wash DC  71  50  

Wednesday Thursday 
. 
International Movie . AcoustiCafe: LaFortune, Festival: Montgomery 9 p.m. Theatre. 8 p.m. . FASO's Lumpia Night: 

. 
Lecture: Jocie Antonelli, Center for Social 'The Controversial Concerns, 7:30 p.m. 'Protein Diets,"' . Pre-Law Fair: Joyce LaFortune, 12:10 p.m. Center, 11 a.m. 


Dada "has earned its name and fame as the provider of most con­genial working conditions for the workers. Dada is simply a model or a good factory -others should fol­low it." 
McSpedon said that this is only a partial list of Nike's factories and that Nike probably picked "its cleanest and strongest factories [for the profilesI." 
"We need  a  complete list," said  
McSpedon.  
GSC  Chief  Organizer  junior  

Andrew Milmore echoed McSpedon's skepticism about Nike's motivations for the release of the list. "They are using [the release] to make themselves look better in comparison to other com­panies, and they only picked the ones they were comfortable expos­ing,,, Milmore said. 


MonJay, October 11, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Marchers 'take back the woods' 
Applied 01athe01atics 
By NICOLE HADDAD 
Nt'ws Writer 
With da11ce1s, chants and poPtry, studPnts and profes­sors gathPrnd last night in sup­port of' survivors of viohrnc11 at "Takt• Back tlw Woods." 
SponsorPd by the Saint Marv's Fmninist Collcctivn and Canipus Alliance for Rapn 1:Jimination fCJ\HEJ. tho march was lwld to mnpowEir all 1110111­lwrs ol' tlw community to fool sncurP in tlwir right to havn saf'P accnss to ull arPas of' t.lw \'.Ollllllllllity. 
;\ march through tho Saint Mary's Woods was followed by a bonfirn, poetry rPadings, c.hanls. drums and ritual dances. 
"You should never have tiJ 1'1rnl afraid of going into Lim woods." said seninr Sara Salazar, prnsident o[' C.J\.R.E. 
Hcasons for holding this march are to "help empower women and men who have had some kind of assault as wnll as conct1rns about b11ing out and no being protectnd." said psychology ·prol'essor Cath1'.rine Pittman. "Wn am trying to give peoph: a chance 
By ERIN PIROUTEK 
New, Wri1,·r 
Wfwn astronauts viflw tlrn Earth from spiu:1!, tlwy sen not a c.011glo111nration of'.countrins. but onn unif'ied world. Arg1~ntinnan archbishop Estanislao Karlir called for an Pxlensiou of' this vision to Anwrica. with all pnoplc living as nnr mankind. speaking through a translator in his Inc­tu rl' "Principal Lhenws of 1-:rrlt!sia in Anwrica." 
"Tlw l'opn wants to strnngth­1! 11 and rocognizP the idea of' a real unity !'or tlin rontinnnt," said Karlie, 1imphasizing tlw usn of Anwrira in tlw single, not llw plural to d1•scribe tlrn WHstnrn l h•misplwrn. 
"Tlw will of tlw Pope is that we• liVP and work not just like .Jesus ... but as om! Amnrica." said Karlif' while• Pxplaining thH Popt•~ rail for a 1ww Pvangn­li1.alio11 in 1\nwrica. 
"In rPalitv the Christian rcli­g"ion ill tlu: lhird millnnnium is 1.lw rc-ligion ol' rnmaining inti­mate with God," Karlie said, noting how Jesus has drawn closer to mankind ever sincn t.hn Hosurrnction. 
"Christianity is just the per­sonal encounter of the Father, Son and Spirit with each one of us," Karlie said. 
Karlie emphasized the univer­
sal nature of this eneounter. 
"All pnrsons am a symbol and instru­ment of tlrn God that draws closer to us.'' hn said. "It is Christ that we can us!! as the 
m1\asuring ruler for all cul­tun~s." 
"Evangelization has marked America," said Karlie, noting tlrn prcvalencP of Christian charactnr in America r,omparnd with Africa ·and Asia. . 
Karlie emphasized, however, that changes are 1rncessary. lln mldressnd tlw role of education as a pastoral instrument, stat­ing thn n1\od for Catholic oduca­
to fo()I sal'o." The march was dedicated to 
na01es new director 
victims of sexual assault and violm1ct1. 
"To all people who have felt violated. that thov are able to forgive and go (;n ,.,ith their lives and be happy," said senior Kate Hyan. 
"To past and future resi­dents. to bring their land back to them," added Amy Collins. 
"To feeling empowered and lo Saint Mary's pride wePk that makes me proud to be here every day and every W()nk," said Junior Emily Koelsch. 
Special to The Observer 
Panos J\ntsaklis in the Department of Electrical Engineering has been named the Director of the Center for Applied Mathematics (CAM). 
The Center's aim is to 1rnhance interdisciplinary use and teaching of applied math­ematics -mathematics used to solve practical problems in areas such as industrial. trans­portation. communication and business applications. 
Established more than a 
decade ago, CAM fosters University-wide interaction and
Bishop hopes for united world 
tional institutions with the Gospd as the light and strength. Education, is an introduction to humanity, to social interactions. and to life in the Church, he said. 
Karlie also explained that the responsibility to contribute to the unity of the world includes 
· 
''The Pope wants to strengthen and recognize the idea ofa real unity, for the continent." 
Estanislao Karlie Argentinean archbishop 
the responsibil­ity to respect the cultures of small nations. Although the tendency is for the powerful to dominate the weak. we resist this tern pta­tion, he said. 
The rights of 

the poor must not be ignored. From Canada to the United States. to Chile to Argentina­the goal is to help the poor live in dignity, said Karlie. 
Karlie's address is part of the conforence "Building a Culture of Solidarity: Challenges and Promises of Er,clesia in America," sponsored by the University of Notre Dame 
Theology J)epartment. 
.Y<efaxal/on Jra/n/ny 
Bearn menial&pb_ysicafsl.rale51ies lo 

induce cahn andrelaxalion. cSfI/fs can be used: *Jo h'e./_pprepareJ~r .slress 
*as an al!ernaliue lo afcobo/,-druys & ouerealin9 *lo improve concenl.rah'on abihlies 'lJr. Wendy 0ellfe & 'lJr. Ben Jf/chnan Yndays, 4:00-5:00, :J?o/fs 0porls ,??ec Genier 
Oclober 29, Xouember 5, J2 $I 0 -!J?eoisfralr'on be01ns Oclober IJ Sam _<RcSD?C
iluo.· J-J ' ' 
Re-?~~ 

include predicting lunar and solar eclipses, calculating the liming of annual floods of' the Nile or dnsigning the Partlrnnon. Today mathemati­cal relations are used to describe not only Newton ·s law, thn 1,lectric and magnetic fields in Maxw11ll's equations and Einstein's relativitv tlworv. but also phefrnmena" in eco­nomic and social sdcnccs. 
"The most familiar statistical interpretations of data might be those gathernd by political organizations during election campaigns or by the entertain­ment industry to determine the appeal of certain television shows." said i\ntsaklis. 
Currently a faculty member in the College of Engine,iring, Antsaklis has also held regular and visiting appointments at Brown University, Hice University. the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Imperial College of the University of London, the National Technical University of Athens and the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory. 
With morn than 240 technical publications to his credit, Antsaklis has also authornd the graduate textbook "Li1rnar Systems," a research mono­graph on Ptri nets and has edited four books on hybrid systems and intelligent control. Ile serves as editor and guest editor f'or several loading in:crnational journals. 
Antsaklis received his doctor­al and mastnr's degrees from Brown University and his undergraduate dt1grce from the National Technical University of Athens. Greece. lie joined tho Notro Dame faculty in 1980. 
collaboration and provides sup­port for faculty researchlffS using mathematics in a variety of disciplines spanning engi­neering, physical sciences, social sciences and business. CAM also provides graduate student fellowships, as well as support for workshops, semi­nar series and faculty visitors in interdisciplinary research areas. 
"I am very excited about this opportunity," said Antsaklis. "Society is imposing ever­increasing demands on engi-• neers and scientists for better understanding of physical and man-made processes and for better designed and less exp1rn­sive products." The problems that need to be solved are very complex, and many of them 
call for the expertise of multi­ple researchers across several disciplines. Mathematics pro­vides a common language, and mathematical models are often used to describe processes and design new products. In fact, mathematics has been an important part of society since a11cient times. Examples 

page4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, October 11, 1999 
CUBA 

Castro allows 400 Jews to eIDigrate to southern Israel 
based newspaper said, citing country officially embraced Jerusalem, was quoted as Castro after his 1959 revolu­
Associated Press 

unnamed sources in Israel. atheism in 1962, forcing many telling The Sunday Telegraph. tion, many left Cuba after he There has been no mention to shy away from public wor­"Castro is seeking out new turned toward socialism and
LONDON 
of the Jewish immigration in ship. economic ties, including ones their businesses were expro­
Cuban President Fidel Castro Cuba's government-controlled In the early 1990s, however, with Israel," Bejarano was priated or shut down.
agreed to a secret deal that 
news media. Officials with the constitution was changed quoted as saying. "He has no In the four decades sinceallowed 400 Jews to emigratf' Cuba's Foreign Ministry were tu make the choice but to Castro's revolution, the Jewish
to Israel. The Sunday 
not available for comment on government change policy community in Cuba has shrunkTelegraph reported. 
Sunday. secular. For "Castro is seeking out to survive ... from 15,000 to 1.500. There is
An Israeli official confirmed Castro is known to want to the first The people no rabbi or Jewish school.
the report. Speaking on condi­new economic ties. 
improve Cuba's image abroad time, beli1w­neod dollars, There are just three syna­
tion of anonymity. the official 
and encourage Washington to ers of all including ones with and they gogues in Havana and one
said 400 immigrants arrived consider lift.ing the nearly 40-fait.hs wMe Israel." believe that kosher butcher. 
more than a year ago and have 
year-old economic embargo accepted in lotting Jews The original contact between
been Jiving in the southern 
wrecking the nation's econo-t h e go would the Cubans and the quasi-gov­coastal city of Ashkelon. Most 
Margalit Bejerano 
my. Communist make a good ernm1rntal Jewish Agency in 
are students and hope their 
The official said he expected Party. professor, Hebrew University impression Israel, which brings Jews to
parents still in Cuba will be 
that other Jews who want to Still, the on Washing-the country, was made throughallowed to emigrate as well. 
leave Cuba would be allowed Cuban gov-ton." the World Union of JewishCuba has no formal ties with out by next June. ernment is desperate for new Most Cuban Jews are Students, the Israeli officialIsrael, having broken off rela­Castro, accused of supplying trading partners. The fall of descendants of Polish and said.
tions after Israel's victory in 
arms to Palestinian terror communism cut off $6 billion Russian Jews who fled A spokesman for the Jewishthe Yorn Kippur War in 1973, groups, has long been hostile. , in annual aid from the Soviet pogroms at the turn of the cen­Agency, Michael Jankelowitz,so the exit visas wen' granted 
to Israel. While he never Union, Margalit Bejarano, of tury. While most in the Jewish declined to comment on thethrough Canada, l.he London-cracked down on Jews, the the Hebrew University in community initially supported newspaper report. 
speak out," he said. "Others will not get involved."
King 

King expressed disappoint­ment that Notre Dame andcontinued from page 1 
other Catholic universities with strong Irish-American 
you," he said. "It's an opportu­enrollments like Boston nity but it is also a responsibil­College and Georgetown did ity to speak out on issues." not invite Adams to speak on 
King has traveled to Ireland campus when he was denied a over 20 times and has gained visa by the United States gov­
an understanding of the Irish ernment. 
people that one cannot get King said that if the universi­from behind a desk in con­
ties had demand that Adams gress, he said. be granted a visa, the govern­"It's easy to talk about ment would have granted him names and numbers," he said. one. When Clinton finally did "But unless vou've been there, grant Adams a visa, the peaceit loses its human dimension." accords were finally taken 
The human dimension in the 
seriouslv because the British conflict would be enhanced if government realized that the Irish-Americans were more U.S. was going to take an vocal on the issue, he said. active role in the peace con­"If afflicted groups do not flict. he said. 
Hey, law students. Want to meet the undergrads? 
Join The Observer staff. Call 631-5323 
l{nocl,oul Wo,l,out 

Total Body Conditioning 
Punching Co1nbinations Heavy Bag Work Boxing Footwork 

. Q 
M/W 10/25 -12/8 7-8:30pm T/Th 10/26 -12/7 7-8:30pm 
$20 + $5 handwraps _ Boxing Room located between Gates 1 & 2 in the Joyce Center. 

Regi,l,ation begin, Tue,day. I 0/ It 7:50am in the RSRC. 
Call 1·6100 wilh que,tion,. 
Z?~~ 
Legacy 

continued from page 1 
"It just seems that this heightened school-spirit comes at the expense of denying qualified students admittance to the University," he said. "Is school spirit that much more important than academic stan­dards?" 
For their part, the admis­sions office ardently denies that standards are lowered in order to offer admittance to legacy applicants. 
While the office openly admits that like athletes and faculty children, legacies are considered special cases, the office said they are not judged any differently than other applicants. 


f;'\J a jreaf joh i'\ a rla(.,e f~af $fa'\J$ ou.f. 



Still, rnany students, includ­ing legacies themselves, remain unconvinced. 
"I figure being a legacy had a huge part in my being admit­ted," said sophomore Ryan Flanagan. "l mean, I'm a smart guy, I can handle myself here, but sometimes I wonder, how did I get in?" 
But this may just be another case of overly high expecta­tions. Influenced almost since birth, legacies come to Notre Dame feeling almost unwor­thy, like they've been blessed. And maybe they have. 
"It's why we sell out pep ral­lies, it's why we can meet someone, anywhere in the countrv, and when we find out they'/e from Notre Dame, there is an instant bond," said Ratke. "It's all those things other colleges don't have." 
orld. 


Monday, Ocotbt:r 11, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Hillary Clinton calls for end to trafficking of women 
ltJ.:YKJ/\VIK, lcnlan<l 
l;irsl Lady I lillary Hodham Clinton issund a <·all 1.1, PIHi Urn inLnrnational trade in prostitu­tion 011 Sunday duri.ng lmr last stop i11 a week­long Furopcan tour. SpPaking at a cont'nrnncn on wonwn and dPmmTacy in lcPland's capital, sh<• dticriPd a systPm lhttt allows girls to lm lur('(I l'rorn Imm<' with tho promise of' jobs, "trnffit'k(\d likn drugs arross state lines and sold into prostitution." "Wt• am working lo stop trafficking of' women and girls in this n\gion and around Urn world." she said. "No govornnmnt and no citizrn1 can rnst until wu stop this n10d1•rn form of slavnry. protect its victim:,; and 1.irost>cut1: those who am responsi­hl1•." Tlw s1w1id1 was lwr nrnst outspoken of tlw tour. whkh also took linr to Italy, Slovakia and Poland. 
Dalai Lama supports Tibet's autonomy, not indpendence 
N/\HITA. Japan 
Tilwl's PXilPd spirilual lnadnr, tlrn Dalai Lama, drnw contrasts lwlwnnn l:ast Timor and Tilll't on Sunday to rl'itPrate lhal he is s1•nki11g autonomy ro,: his lrnnrnland, nol inde­JJPl!dPncP l'rom China. "Tlwrn arc similarities lwl.Wl'l'n liast Timor and Tibet. But thorn are biggPr dil'formu:ns." the Dalai Lama said at a subudmn Tokyo hotel. I>rnssnd in a tradition­al orange robe, lhn Dalai Lama also b!'moanl'd thi> "human suffering and violence" in East Timor since the Aug. 30 reforcndum in which residnnls votcd ovPrwhclmingly f'or indnp1rndt•11c1) from Indmrnsia. "East Timor has had tlw opportunity to express its feel­ings. which is good." he told rc)porters. "What I want !'or TibN is autonomy, not indepen­dnnrt), and nonviolencn. /\!ways no violence." 
California wildfires almost under control 
BIG SUH. Calif'. 
1-'irnlightPrs wmn gaining on two vvildfircs in tlln Los l'adres National Forest that were started by a lightning storm a month ago along tlw c!'nlral California coast. One fire had bunwd nearly 34,850 ucrns and was 75 pPrr<•nl co11tai1H•d Sunday. The other had bunwd about 48.815 acres, and lirefightnrs nxprn:tNI to hav1i it contained by Monday. The lirns havP forctid the evacuati()ns of dozens of pt)opl(). including the monks of the New Camaldoli IJermitage monastery, and cost an nstirnatPd $56 milli()n to light. Two thousand lircfightnrs have been battling the blazes. which slarl!icl Sept. 8. In Urn Trinity Alps Wilderness in Northern California, lightning­sparked lirns had consumod 108,363 acres by Sunday. 
l•if,•irttlitt@Mwl··•
Dow AMEx: 
781.49 

]ONES 
Nastla11:

+112.71 
2886.57 

LJ 
I 25,87 
NYSE: 
613.51 
+6.')[) 

S&P 500: Composite l.'36.02 
Volume:
10649.76 893,370,770
• 18.38 
VOLUME LEADERS 

C!2!1t6!!! 'l'ICKE~ 'C~I: I CHAJK.E Plll:£S 
U.P.OJ: CORP  ltRlt  -21,ia  -lD,l500  lJ.~O  
GLOIIAL C~OS9INQ D&t.L COH.f'UTl:I\  e•w: VlU,W  +lL«O+.2.,,  +t. !115 •l. 1:150  1,. 'SO «5.50  
LUCUIT '!'&CH INC  LO  •l.&l  -l.Ul75  "-00  
It.l'l'!L COl'P MlCIIIOSOF'I' COR• :tlf'l'&. eua IQC'1UN  iNTC HSP'l',.,.  . 0.091 tl.l7 -3 .. ll.  .o,. 06!10 1-1.1900 -l. 6.l!IO  15.0 .,',.11:1.~ 7!S  
._C'l  WOlt.LDCOM IN  WCON  .1.,9  +l. 3100  16.H  
AJlUflC'"-CNLINt  AOL  . J. 71  •3.!lOft  Ul.81  
CISCO SYl'TDIS  coco  +l.U  ..a. uso  11 •.u  

YUGOSLAVIA 

EU, Serb opposition meeting doubtful 
Associated Press 

BELGRADE 
/\ planned meeting bntwuen European union ministers and Serbian oppo­sition leaders was in doubl Sunday due to EU demands that the Serbs extradite Yugoslav leaders to face war crimAs chargAs if President Slobodan Milosevic is ousted. 
More than two dozen top opposition leaders, Serbian Orthodox Church heads and the premier of Serbia's junior partner. Montenegro. had been invited to the meeting of EC ministers Monday in Luxembourg. 
Thcv wern lo discuss democracy in Serb-led Yugoslavia, possible selec­tive shipments of heating oil to municipalities run by opposition parties. and a propos11d lifting of an air embargo against Yugoslavia. 
But the private Beta news agency reported that the trip was in question because EU oflicials want the oppo­siti()n to pledge that. if they come to power, they would extradite Milosevic and four of his aides tn the interna­tional war crimes tribunal in The Hague, Netherlands. 
Top opposition leader Zoran Djindjic confirmed to The Associated Press that lhe EU insistence on an extradition pledge has raised questions about the wisdom of attending the meeting. 
"Our main priority is the coming winter and the pos­sible humanitarian catastro­phe," Djindjic said. "The cooperation with the tri­bunal is absolutely needed ... but the winter is what we are facing now." 
lie said the opposition would decide Monday wlrnthcr t() travel to Luxembourg. 
The opposition is reluc­tant to make such a public promise to extradite Milosevic and other leaders because it could tarnish its image among Serbs and reinforce Milosevic's accu­sations that they are Western "traitors" in the service of the same nations that recently bombed Yugoslavia. 
Beta said EU· ministers had intended to approve shipments of heating oil to two southern Serbian towns, Nis and Pirot, as a pilot project to help ordi­nary people and boost the opposition's popularity locally. 

Beta quoted British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook as saying Britain "remains firmly resolved not to make Milosevic's position easier." 
"Serbia should not expect any significant help in reconstruction as long as Milosevic ... is in power." Cook was quoted as saying. 
In a commentary Sunday, the pro-Milosevic newspa­per Politika claimed the opposition has already received $100 million from foreign sources to organize daily protests in major Serbian cities designed to make Milosevic resign. 

A few thousand people gathered Sunday in down­town Belgrade for a protest rally against Milosevic. It was the 20th consecutive day of protests. Similar crowds also formed in sev­eral provincial towns, despite recent beatings of protesters by police. 
MEXICO 

Government upsets flooding victims 
Associated Press 

VILLAHERMOSA 
/\ngry over sandbagging that has swamped their 1rnighborhoods and furious that the government hasn't done more to help, hun­dreds of people in Tabasco's 0ooded capital clashed Sunday with police. who beat and arrested many of them. 
Presidt1nt Ernesto Zedillo, who has called the flooding Mexico's worst disaster in a decade. toured the stricken areas on Friday and Saturday and pledged to send more civilian and military per­sonnel lo help the victims thrnughout states along Lhc Gulf of Mexico. 
"We won't fail you," he promised Saturday. 
But in Villahermosa, a city of 465,000 people that is 400 miles Aast of Mexico City, many weren't willing to accept promises. Much of the city has been under water for a week, and the water was rising on Sunday. 
The death loll. according to ofl1cials in the affected states, stood at 333. But hundreds more were miss­ing, and unofficial counts by local newspapers ­based in part on witness accounts -put the death loll as high as 600. 
As the rain continued to fall, authorities in the town of Tenango worked into the night to prevent anoth­er disaster after a foot­wide crack appeared in the face of a turn-of-the-centu­ry, U.S.-built dam. which towers above the town. 
Dump trucks brought :mo loads of gravel and rock, dumping it in front of the dam. Three thousand residents of Tonango wcro evacuatnd to nnarhy Nuevo Necaxa. 

"The water was begin­ning to come ovnr tho top of the dike. Tlw engineers thought it was going to break," said evacuee Jose Luis Gonzalez, 40. 
Soldiers dug into moun­tains of mud that covered villages and towns across the region, searching for the snwll of docaying flesh that would signal a victim nearby. Tlrnir work was made harder by fresh storms on Sunday. 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 11, 1999 
Republicans: Bush's attacks could hurt his chances 
Associated Press 

WASHlNGTOJ', 
Republican lawmakers said Sunday ihat continued attacks by George W. Hush could hurt him on Capitol Hill should the GOP front-runner become presi­dt>nt. 
"I hope that he doesn't get in a mode of attacking those of us in the majority party who are working \'ery hard to do the people's business and then expert to come to Washington as the president and 1,vork with us," Rep. Ray LaHood, R-Ill .. said on CBS's "Fare the Nation." 
"Jimmy Caster tried that when he was elected president. run­ning against the Congress and couldn't get anything done." 
Bush. in what was widelv seen as an opportunity to move·10 the political middle, recently criti­cized the I-louse Hepublicans' plan to alter a tax credit for the working poor in order to help balanc() th() budget. 
Shortly after that, a second GOP presidential contender. Sen. John McCain, join()d in, saying lawmakers were picking on the working poor rather than special interest groups that con­tribute money to the party. 
LaHood. who has endorsed Bush and helped raise campaign funds, said such comments 
Clinton seeks to delay , nuclear test treaty 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The White House dispatched Cabinet members Sunday Lo press the Scnatfl to pnt off vot­ing on a nuclear test ban treaty headed for rejection, saying a defeat would endanger nonpro­liferation efforts. 
One Republican opponent, Sen. Jon Ky! of Arizona, voicing widespread GOP concerns about verification. said he wel­comed a chance "to go back to the drawing board." He pre­dicted certain defeat of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty if the expected vote Tuesday goes forward. 
Three Cabinet members and the president's top military officer, pleading the adminis­tration's case on the Sunday talk shows, said rejecting the treaty would prevent the United States from taking the lead in halting the global spread of nuclear weapons. 
"We are in a situation right now where we're about to send a signal to the rest of the world that we are not as serious about controlling the spread of nuclear weapons as we should be," Defense Secretary William Cohen said on :-.BC's "Meet the Press." 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said on ABC's "This Week" that the United States needs "a tool that will prevent the other countries from test­ing. We believe that we have a rel.iahle stor:kpile [of nuclear weapons]. We don't need to test more and we waut others not to test." 
At Cohen's side was Gen. Henry H. Shelton, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who sought to assure the public that the treaty would not handicap the l:nited States militarily. 
"If the national security· ,vere in any way going to be dam­aged, the joint chiefs would never recommend that we rati­fy this treaty," Shelton said. 
And Energy Secretary Bill Richardson joined Cohen and Albright in saying the Senate should not act on the treaty without benefit of full hear­ings. 
"What we have now is the need to explain it to the Senate, to the Congress," he said on Fox. 
Senate oppon.ents led by Majority Leader Trent Lott, R­Miss .. have said the vote will proceed unless President Clinton vvithdraws the treaty and promises not to resubmit it. 
Kvl contended a defeat would strengthen the United States' hand in negotiations with other countries. 

would not lay the groundwork has differences with us as the for positive relations between majority party, we ought to sit Congress and a Bush White down in a closed door room and llouse. talk about them. We arc not try­
"Those of us  ing to balance  
who support  the budget on  
George Bush  "When does the gol'ernor  the backs of  
want him to do well," LaHood said.  start attacking Al Gore or Ted Kennedy or the  the poor. That simply is not true."  
"Gut vrn also  Denwcatic Party?."  GOP presi­ 
want  to  be  dential hope­ 
part of that winning team.  Gary Bauer  ful Bauer  Gary said  
You don't do  presidential candidate  Bush  was  
it by knocking  talking like  a  
those  of  us  I i b  e  r  a  I  

who are working 12 to 14 hours Democrat. a day trying to do the people's "When does the governor start. business in Washington. If he attacking Al Gore or Ted 
Kennedy or the Democratic Party?" Bauer said on CBS' "Pace the Nation. 
"It looks to me like he's try­ing to get. the nomination of the Democratic party, devoting his rnergy to attacking good Republican conservatives. He's the front-runner in the party. If ho has a problorn with something going on in Congress. pick up the phone and say something about it, but don't provide fodder for the Democrats to use in 2000 to defeat our party," Bauer said. 
The Bush campaign did not irnrneuiately respond Sunday to a request for comment. 


Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam 
Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 
journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-Jllile 2000 graduating 
classes. 

Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries musl be postmarked by March l, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April I, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

,,£-., 
~ 
\Ycb ;;i1e: wv. \\.sl.irn.«·s . ..:om/pjf E-mail: pulli.im<µ;, .ir,ncw~.com 
Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers P.O. Box 145 Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 

THE CANDAX MCNAIR PROGRAM ANNOUNCES THE 1990 -2000 RECRUITMENT MEETING WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
THURSDAY., OCTOBER 14., 1999 
4:30 -5:30 PM 
CUSHING ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION: Nov. 5) 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
(all ethnic backgrounds are eligible) 
or 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans ( visit the ://www.nd.edu/~mario/mcnair/) 
..---·---------------------~--..-----...,·-~-...,---­
Monday, October 11, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
----, 

INDIA 
Kashmir half-widows fight poverty 
Associated Press 
SRINAGAR 

They'n1 pushed aside by their in-laws, shunned by rwigh bors, exploited by nmployers and harassed by sncurity of'!icers. 
Thoy am Kashmir's "half'­widows." some 2,000 women whose husbands never rnturrrnd home uft11r security l'orcns tonk them away for questioning as suspected sepa­ratists. 
Only hnpP keeps the women going. llopn that their hus­bands -and also sons -will conw back onH day. 
Under Islamic law, a woman can rnmarry four years after lwr husband clisappnars if' sus­tairrnd nffnrts hav1i b11en made Lo f'ind him. In practice, the women don't want to rtimarry. 
"Tlrny k1wp hoping that thnir husbands will come back." says Bashir Ahmad Dabla, a sociology profossor who sur­v1iyml Kashmir's half-widows narlinr this year. 
Parvnen Anglrnr. a human rights activist, has helpml poor Muslim wonwn l'ile lawsuits s11eking help l'rom India's gov­
nrnnrnnt. 
"They havn no source of inconrn. Thnir children usually don't go to school. Tho women ani in poor lwalth. They most­ly wait and wnep," sht1 says. 
!\nglwr rounded the !\ssociation of Parents ol' llisappPared l'nrsons al'ter policci picked up her 15-year­old son ninn years ago. lie IJPVer canw home. 
In 1989. an insurrection 11rupt1~d in the Kashmir Vall,~y. a Muslim-majority area that lslamir militants want to break away from India, which is pre­ed family. dominantly Hindu. The guer­She is weak from anemia rilla war has killed thousands and suffers from high blood of civilians, militants, police, pressure. Her eldest daughter army and paramilitary offi­has leucoderma, a skin condi­cers. Security forces have spe­tion marked by white irregular cial powers to detain anyone patches. Zainam has no money without giving reasons. for medicine. 
Hundreds of' civilians have Rafiqua, another of the half­disappeared, some of them widows, says her in-laws sent killed by guerrillas who sus­her back to her parents a few pected them of being police months ago after complaining informers. Allegations of tor­about the $230 they spent ture and human rights abuses looking for her husband. He 
are  numer­ was picked up  
ous against both sides. Zainam. a  'They have no source of income. Their children  by security forces in 1996.  
half-widow  usually don't go to  Rafiqua says  
who likn oth­ers askocl to be identified  school. The women are in poor health. "  she worked from dawn to dusk for her  
only by  her,  in-laws. "They  
first  name,  Parveen Angher  wouldn't even  
says  she  human rights activist  buy me soap,"  

hasn't seen her husband since soldiers stormed her housn one night three years ago. 
"They boat my husband for two hours. Ilo was screaming all tho time. Then wci didn't hear anything. The soldiers loft. We wont upstairs. He was not there .... We never saw him again," she says. 
The illiterate mother of three children says she has visited dozens of army camps and police stations looking for her husband. who was a govern­ment gardener. 
"We used to hear f'rom vil­lagers that he is here or there. We could nnver find him," savs Zainam, who looks far older than her 30 years. 
She never went to school, like most women in this male­dominated Muslim region. She lives in her husband's extend-

she says. Now they want her back again. 
'Tm like a servant in their house. But what can l do? l can't go on living with my par­ents. 
They have other children to look after," says Rafiqua, a mother of four at age 25. 
lier son, Faisal, 5, sits beside her quietly through tho inter­view. "He is always quiet," she says. "The doctor said, 'Don't let him see people crying.' He is always depressed." 
The half-widows and their children all show symptoms of depression. In addition, most of the women have heart ail­mlmts, says Dabla, the sociolo­gist. 
"The condition of the half. widows is worse than that of widows. They don't know if their husbands are dead or alive," Dabla says. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
"The Best of Both Worlds" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
,-...,Jr--,.,tr-,..,1~ 

Tuesday, October 12, 1999 102 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
With Prof. Kevin Whelan, Director Keough-Notre Dame Center, Dublin 
Applications Available Application Deadline: December 1 For Fall 2000 -Spring 2001 AY 2000-2001 
ITALY 
Pontiff explains why he forgave gun01an 
Associated Press 
ROME 

Pope John Paul II, speaking to children at a Rome parish on Sunday, said the Christian message taught him to forgive the man who tried to kill him 18 years ago. In a question­a n d ­answer
. .,
session, the pope took several ques­tions from local children. 
As pope, John Paul also is the bishop of Rome. It is this additional responsibility that counted Sunday's trip to the church of St. Catherine of Sienna as his 286th parish visit since becoming pontiff, and he has said he would like to go to all 320 of the city's parishes. 
Walking slowly and leaning heavily on his cane, John Paul shook hands with peo­ple gathered at the parish grounds on a cool, sunny Roman morning. Despite his slow movements his voice was strong as he answered questions from children he was surounded by. 
"What was your happiest 


memory as a child?" one child asked. "Do you have a best friend?" another won­dered. "Why did you forgive your would-be assassin?" one wanted to know. 
"I forgave him because that is what Jesus teaches us," the pontiff replied. "Ile teaches us to forgive." 
The pope was seriously wounded on May 13, 1981, when he was shot by Mehmet Ali Agca in St. Peter's Square in Rome. Amid public concern and outcry, the pontiff publicly forgave Agca only a few days after the attack. Agca is now serving a life sentence in jail. 
As for the other queries, John Paul said his first com­mun ion was his happiest childhood memory. "I don't remember my baptism," he quipped. And his best friend, he said, "is Christ." 
"lie sowed a seed in me at my baptism, then during my education in school and in the family ... and, lastly, in my priestly vocation," John Paul explained, then smiled. "Now you have my autobiog­raphy," he said. 
The children appeared interested and responded to the Pope's answers. 
The pope celebrated Mass on the parish soccer field for about 500 parishioners. 
Tuesday October 12, 1999 7:JOp.m. 
Liffle Theatre 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's College Box Office 
2&M626 
M~,0 
' ~THEARTS
~-rw•DAMI, IN 
' I 
page 8 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 11, 1999 
Hit and run kills six 
Candid cameras catch crafty cars 
students, injures two 
Associated Pre,s 

COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Six college students getting outof their cars or walking along a highway on their way to a fraternity party were killed early Sunday by a pickup truck whose driver who had fallen asleep, police said. 
The accid1mt happened just after midnight about two and was returning to campus for the night when ho fell asleep and veered off the road, Patterson said. 
"We could hear screaming and stuff but at first we didn't have any idea he was running over people," said Daniel Lara, a 22-year-old student who lives next door to the fraternity. "We walked out and saw bodies all 
over the 
place."

"We could hear "Their
miles west of the Texas screaming and stuffbut at shoes were 
in perfect
A & M 

first we didn't have any 
place from
University 

idea he was running over where they
main campus, 
were walk­

said police people." 
ing, saidMaj. Mike Arissa Hill, aPatterson. 

Daniel Lara 
Blinn College
The victims -four stu­

Texas A&M student freshman 
dents from Baylor University, one from Texas A&M and one from Southwest Texas State -were among a group of people who were going to a party at the Tau Kappa Epsilon house along a four-lane highway. Some had just parked on the road shoulder and the pickup sideswiped two parked cars and struck a third. 
Witnesses said parties at the fraternity often draw large crowds of people who must park on the shoulder of the highway, which has a 65-mph speed limit. 
The man driving the pickup, also a Texas A&M student, had just taken his girlfriend home Texas A&M studrmt Brandon Kallmeyer, was not injured and apparently had not been drink­ing, police said. 
who  was  
going to the  
party.  
The  driver,  l 8-y1rnr-o Id  

Patterson said investigators will present evidence to Brazos County prosecutors without recommending charges. 
The victims were identified as Emily Hollister, 18, Tricia Calp, 18, Dolan Wostal, 22, and Erika Lanham, 18, all Baylor students; William Flores, 22, of Southwest Texas, and Ted Bruton, 21, ofTexas A&M. 
Two other people were hos­pitalized, but their injuries are not life-threatening. 
Associated Press 

BALTIMORE 
Drivers who floor it when the light turns red may soon be opening the mail to find them­selves caught in the act on film. 
About 250 cameras are trained on intersections from Baltimore to San Diego and that number is expected to double annually, suppliers say. 
Police love the ever-vigilant cameras, which they say reduce rnd-light running and relieve officers from intersec­tion stakeouts. Local govern­ments love them because they bring in millions of dollars in traffic fines. But privacy advo­cates worry about the introduc­tion of yet another piece of 
technology  to  monitor  the  
everyday  activities  of  
Americans.  

The cameras, long used in Europe and other countries. were slow to catrh on in the United States. But in the five years since cameras went up in New York City, they have spread to nearly 50 cities and 10 states. They have generated an estimated $90 million in gross revenues, according to Lockheed Martin IMS, a major supplier, 
Few states havP-embraced the cameras as enthusiastically as Maryland, where experi­enced drivP-rs know a green light means wait for the red­light runners to clear the inter­section. 
Baltimore has a dozen cam­eras and has signed up for 48 more, which will make it one of the largest users in the nation. 
The number of' red light cam­
eras elsewhere in Maryland is 
expected to grow from 75 to 
200 by year's end. 

Traffic safety advocates say 
it's about time. Each year, red­
light running accounts for 
about 260,000 crashes, 
121,000 injuries and more than 
800 deaths nationwide, accord­
ing to the Insurance Institute 
for Highway Safety. Pata! 
crashes at intersections with 
traffic signals have risen 24 
percent, from 1,888 in 1992 to 
2,344 in 1997. 

"Red-light running is an 
extension of the kind of aggres­
sion we're seeing more and 
more in everyday life," said 
Richard Retting, a traffic safety 
engineer at the Insurance 
Institute. 

"People in a hurry tend to not 
to want to stop ii' they have the 
choice. The tradeoff is some­
body saves a f'ew seconds, but 
increasingly puts someone nlse 
at risk." 

An Insurance Institute study 
found that red-light violations 
dropped 40 percent in Fairfax, 
Va., and Oxford, Calif., after 
cameras were introduced in 
1996 and 1997, respectively. 
Police in Howard County, a wealthy suburb of Baltimore and Washington, D.C., found the number of red lights run at four intersections dropped 57 percent five months after cam­eras were introduced last year. At one intersection, collisions dropped from 15 in 1997 to eight last year. 
"It's a very effective, sus­tained program for changing driving behavior to make roads safer," said Lt. Glenn Hansen, 
who runs the county's pro­
gram. "It frees up officers to 
handle other needs." 
A camera snapped 75-year­
old John Lobell's picture as he 
drove to a church meeting in 
Howard County last year. Ile 
thought tho light was yellow, 
until he opened the mail two 
weeks later. 
"There's no questioning it," 
he said. "There's nobody to 
argue with." 
"I think it's a wake-up call to 
all of us to slow down and pay 
more attention to traffic," ho 
said. 
Cities and counties using 
cameras allow firms, such as 
Electronic Data Systems of 
Plano, Texas, and Lockheed 
Martin IMS. a subsidiary of the 
Bethesda-based defense giant, 
to do a job oncn done exclu­
sively by police. 
When a car speeds through a red light at any of 20 intersec­tions in Howard County, a mag­netic relay beneath the pave­ment sends a signal and the shutter on a $50,000 German­made camera pops open twice. A computer notes the time, date, vehicle speed and amount of time the light was red. 
Each day, a company techni­cian retrieves the film, scans the negatives into a computer, looks up the license plate num­ber and draws up a ticket. The ticket is verified bv a civilian police employee and sent to the registered car owner. 
What if a lead-footed friend borrows the car and runs a red light? In Maryland, as in most states, drivers can go to court and testify they weren't behind the wheel. 

END OF LIFE CARE­
,I 
FROM CALCUTTA To KOKOMO MOTHER TERESA'S WAY 
Presented by Jim Towey, author of FIVE WISHES. 
As Mother Teresa's legal counsel for 12 years and a volunteer in one ofher homes for the dying, Jim Towey had the unique opportunity to learn Mother Teresa's way "to approach death with dignity and fearlesness." In I996, Towey founded Aging With Dignity, a nonprofit organization based in Tallahassee, FL. and through this agency unveiled Five wishes. a new ver­sion ofliving will aimed at prompting families and health care providers to talk about something most people choose to avoid talking about-their own death. 

YOU HAVE THREE CHANCES TO HEAR ABOUT FIVE WISHES. 
Thursday October 14 
1:00 p.m. 
Century Center South Bend, IN 
Wednesday October 13 
7:30 p.m. 

Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Thursday October 14 
1:00 p.m. 

Century Center South Bend, IN 
Wednesday evening's talk is sponsored by the Department Of Preprofessional Studies Of Notre Dame, and Saint Joseph's Regional Medical Center. 
• Jim Towey's FIVE WISHES presentations were underwritten by the Community Benefits Fund by Memorial Leighton Center for Senior Health. 
Monday, October l l, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
==:::::.=.:.:_-_:_:__::__::-_-_--_--:===================---======================================================================================== 
ISRAEL 
Gaza Strip to open for Palestinians 
revived last month by Israeli 
Associated Press Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. 
JEHUSALEM Palestinian Civilian Affairs 
/\ :mfc µussagn ruutc for Minister Jamil Tarifi said l'alnstinian travol betwcrnn Sunday that there was only one c;aza and the West Bank should minor detail -the location of hr: o(H!ll(Hl in a week. Palestinian andlsraeli liaison l'alnstinian and Israeli oflicials offices -that needed to be said Sunday. n:1solved. 
Tlw 27-miln passage, which "The route will open on will allow thousands ol' October 17," Taril'i told The Palestinians to visit each other, Associated Pross. would bn the most substantive The spoknsman for the Israeli rnsult of the pnur.e process army's coordinator of activities 
Student Activities is hiring ND Express workers 
Shifts needed: Tuesdays &Thursdays 2pm-5:30pm 
Apply at 315 LaFortune. 
in the territories. Shlomo Dror, · agreed that the passage could 
open as early as Sunday, saying 
the sides needed to work out 
"tedmical details." 
The Palestinian Authority will 
publicize details on the applica­
tion process for permits to use 
the route in coming days, Tarifi 
said. 

The safe passage was out­
lined in the peace agreement 
signed last month between 
Israel and the Palestinians in 
the Egyptian resort of Sharm 
el-Sheikh. That accord marked 
a resumption of the peace 
process after it was frozen for 
much of the three-year rule of 
Barak's predecessor, Benjamin 
Netanyahu. ,, ., , , 
In a further sign the agree­
m1rnt was being implemented. 
the lsraoli army has begun 
evacuating bases in tho West 
Bank to prepare for the next 
withdrawal in November allow­
ing the expansion of Palestinian 
se.lf-rule. 
On Thursday and Sunday, 
reporters witnessed several 
tractor trailer trucks hauling 
away prefabricated buildings 
from two bases in the West 
Bank, one near the· village of 
Tarkumiya and the other six 
miles south of the city of Jenin. 
When asked to comment. the 
Israeli army spokesman would 
only say. "the army is prepar­
ing for the completion of the 
second phase of the Sharm 
agreement," 
The accord's second phase 
outlines a full Israeli withdraw­
al from 2 percent of the West 
13ank by November 15, 
TURKEY 
Far01 plan threatens archaeological town 
Associated Press 
I-IASANKEYF 

A medieval stone minaret rises beside the dusty. lime­stone hills of Turkey's south­east. 
It is a relic of a kingdom that once ruled the region, but it has become a flash­point between the govern­ment and ethnic Kurds strug­gling to preserve their her­itage. 
After surviving for hun­dreds of years, the minaret and parts of the nearby fortress of Hasankeyf may end up underwater as Turkey builds a series of dams to irrigate parched cotton and tobacco fields. 
The irrigation plan is one of tho largest development projects in the world. But it has enraged many in the overwhelmingly Kurdish southeast. They say a state that spends billions to battle Kurdish guerrillas in the bar­ren mountains surrounding Hasankeyf is not willing to revise its plans to save one of the area's archaeological treasures. 
"The battle to save Hasankeyf has become a political battle," says archae·­
ologist Jale Velibeyoglu. "Like Jerusalem in Israel, Hasankeyf has become a sacred symbol in the region." 
Turkey has refused to rec­ognize Kurds as a distinct group and does not grant its 12 million Kurds the minority rights it extends to non­Muslims like Jews. Greeks and Armenians, It is illegal for Kurds to broadcast or teach in their language. Speaking Kurdish was legal­ized in 1991. 
It is that sense of cultural alienation that has fueled Kurdish anger over the impending loss uf Hasankeyf. 
Much of Hasankeyfs charm comes from its lor.ation, perched on white limestone hills above the Tigris Hiver. 
The citadel -a row of col­lapsed stone houses -over­looks the river and a deep gorge that cuts through the white rock. The remains of an arched stone bridge span part of the river, 
Lining the gorge are dozens of caves where people lived until recently, carving shelves and alcoves into the soft stone. 
A reddish-brown stone minaret rises from a mosque below the citadel. The minaret's side is marked by Koranic engravings in the shape of a teardrop; on its top, perched like a cap. sits a large stork's nest. 
In medieval times, spices from India and silk from China moved through the area. 

• 
Be a part of the largest student run fundraiser. All entries must be submitted to the student Activities office by Oct 29th. All designs become the property of "The Shirt" project. 
• 
Designs must include color copy 

• 
Cash Prize will be given-after winning design is chosen 

• 
No navy blue shirt designs please 





VIEWPOINT 
The Educational Rewards of Cable 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
BUSINESS MANAGER David Rogero 
NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan 
V1EW1•01NT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen 
SrORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE Emma, Michael Vanegas 
SA.INT MARv's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
Bryan Lurz 
E.rik Kushw CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INf0..............631-7471 fAX............................................................ 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
oboerver@darwin.cc.nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................6.'ll-4~42 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT...................................... ...........631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS...................................................... ..631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visir om Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as well as ca.noons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly srudenr reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
anides published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol a11d The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
QUl!stions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Michelk Krupa. 
O
THE 

BSERVER Monday, October 11, 1999 
Shortly after I moved away to college, my family made several concessions to life in the modern world. They put screens in the windows. They got rid of the washboard and bought a washing machine. They got cable. 
That's right. I was 19 years old before 

Kate Rowland
I saw my first in­home MTV video. I realize that for 

Read This. 
many of you this in 

It May Save
unconceivable. You 

Your Life. 
were cable babies. You were watching Nickelodeon in utero. You remember all the words to the Fraggle Rock theme song while I am still trying to figure out what, exactly, the hell a Fraggle is. People who explain to me that they are the magical creatures inhabiting the land of Fraggle do not help. 
My family did not get cable in time for my little brother Patrick, now 13, to be a cable baby -he was reared on the same healthy Sesame Street and Mister Rogers that I was -but he is a cable brat. He has seen more episodes of Growing Pains than I have, thanks to reruns on the Disney channel. He one day informed me that Growing Pains is a "very '80's show." This from a child who turned four in 1990 and whose memories of the '80's are clear as crys­tal. I believe his entire knowledge of the '80's comes from cable, thanks to syn­dication of Punky Brewster, that show with Tony Danza and The Golden Girls. He claims not to like The Golden Girls, but will watch it if there's nothing else on. 
I tell him that normal people get up and find something te read instead of watching 12-year-old reruns of The Golden Girls. 
To his credit, he does enjoy educa­tional cable. He taped the Discovery Channel's Provoking Dangerous Reptiles Week, with that Australian guy who also hosts the program where, show after show, he finds himself in precarious situations involving a ticked­off rattlesnake or a ferocious alligator. You'd think that after of working with these animals, this guy would figure out how to walk quickly and quietly away from kangaroos who are pounding their tails on the ground in the way that even I have figured out means they are about to attack. 
But no. He keeps putting himself through these ordeals in the name of science. He always survives, usually by the skin of his teeth, to the wild applause of Patrick and his collected friends. No one ever stops to wonder how the camera crew, which must be extensive, based on the number of cam­era angles from which we see the fight between our hero and the emu, pulls through. 
I don't think cable is all bad. My household now receives three Spanish channels, compared with the one we used to get. One of my favorite shows on Spanish TV is the Univision news that not only recounts the day's past events but also offers predictions for tomorrow based on your horoscope sign. By far my favorite Spanish show is Los Simpson. l think I like this show because my brothers always fly into the room when they bear the opening music and then erupt into protest when Milhouse comes on saying, "No lo hagas, Bart!" or when we see El Senor Smithers waiting on El Senor Burns. They whine even if it is the episode where Bart, Milhouse and Martin buy the first ·Radioactive Man comic book which they have seen 800 million times and already know all the English words. 
Thanks to cable, I have also bad the chance -this was fun -to get the entire male population of the house deeply invested in a particularly engrossing episode of Chicago Hope, only to reveal at the end that they were watching Lifetime, the channel whose slogan is "Television for Women." 
Imagine the horror. 
Over the summer, 1sublet a house with cable. I also worked the evening shift at a hospital, and sometimes I would get home around two in the morning and watch a little TV before going to sleep. One night, 10 of the 40 stations, not even counting QVC, were broadcasting infomercials. 
My favorite is Natural Beauty Bust Enhancers. This product is advertised by showing "without" pictures of pathetically bust-less people who are clearly men in bikini tops and then showing "with" pictures of people who are obviously extremely well-endowed women wearing nothing more than small triangles of fabric that a Natural Beauty Bust Enhancer, even a size small, would not fit in. 
Another great moment of late night cable is when ESPN changes over to broadcast We Know These Aren't Real Sports. One night I watched profession­al pool {men's, women's and mixed doubles), followed by professional bowl­ing and darts, and then rounding out with Bass Challenge! A Fishing Show for All Skill Levels. 
Our cable went out one night in June and stayed that way for the test of the summer, and I have to say that after that we missed it. We missed profes­sional fishing and we missed the infomercials and we missed Nickelodeon. 
And just when I was beginning to learn the words to Fraggle Rock. 
Kate Rowland has never purchased anything from an infomercial. Certainly not Natural Beauty Bust Enhancers. Her column appears every other Monday and she can be reached at row land. 6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 

YOUR PR.OJECT 15 TWENTY PERCENT OVER BUDGET AND TWO MONTHS LATE.. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
THI\T'$ BECAU5E 

B0'.:1$E5 H~TE 
YOU BUNGLED THE 
THE WORD 

ALLOCATION OF 
"BUNGLED." 
RE50URCE5. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Movies have always been a form of popular culture that altered the way women looked at the world and reflected how men intended to keep it." 
Marjorie Rosen 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, October l I, 1999 

page 11 
On the other end of the eating disorder scale 
• l'vn sn1m tlw lcttnrs to the nditor ovur Urn last couple of wo11ks asking !'or help f'rmn (1at­i11g disonfors, and I was happy to lrnar that thmw pooplc aro not alone and that 
Mike Marchand

Uwrn are 
places on 
campus to 
Questionable

get the lwl11 tlwy Frnedoms 1w11d. Ami 
I was si111nlly wailing for u similar call from thosn on Urn oppositn 1•ml of tho eating disorcfor snd,i. Sino1 no 01w stepped up, 
I will. 
Many pnopln arP unable to co11trnl Llwir impuls1i to nat. I am 1nrn of tlwm. As a rnsult. I am onP of' the 40 million /\mnricans who weig:h at lnast 20 pPrc(~nt more than tlwir 1wrso11al dnsin1cl w11ighl. Above tlw 20 pcrcnnl mark, the risks f'or coronary art<'ry disease, strolrns. anti diahntns incrnas11, rising morl' sharply as t111~ pN­rc•11tag11 inr.rcascs morn. For HXumplti, in 1111m agus 1£i to 31) whosl' wPight is 40 1wrcnnt ahovt• dnsin•<l. Uwn~ is a 5!i pcrn•nt incrnas<~ in dnath from any causl', 70 1wrc·11nt l'rnm coronary artery disnas1:, 75 p11ri·P11l from stroke, aud 400 p1•1-r!'11l from dia!J(\tns. Contrast this with anornxia and bulimia. which only 8 million IH'opl(• suffer l'rom. aiul csti­111at1is statn that only 6 percent of sPrions cases rPsult in dt•ath. J\s if that wpn•n'L 1:nough, m•11rw1\ight ptiopln arn big tar­gots for insult. l don't l'('ll1Pm­lwr sndng a characwr nanrnd "Bulimic Bastard" in the new "Austin Powers" movi<'. When was tlrn last tinrn you heard a joku that startPd with "Your nrnma·s so anorexic ...'"? 
I sham my own personal story to draw nttnntion. On Juno 29. I wont to my doctor's oflicP to get my Notre Damc­mandatm1 physical examina­tion. Whciwver I get a physical, I dr,~ad three things: stPpping 011 a scaln. and, well, ask any guy ahout tho otlwr tw(). /\nyway, tlw scaln said that l wnighml ... uh, thn number's not important, but it was u lot. /\nd rV!\ll though the rnst of tho rnsults statnd that I was in grPat shap<) for a 1rnrson of "my stature," I decidPd that I need­nd to lowm that number. 
I should have decided that much sooner bncausn lrning ov11rweight sucks. 
It sucks that wlwn I buy a 11wal at South Dining llall, tlrn only plac(is I all(IW myself to go an• tht1 salad bar. tlrn fruit bar and tlw Orim1tal arna. where l get my food specially stir-fried with no oil. It sucks that when I go grocery shopping and I buy boneless skinless chicken and a garden's worth of fruils and vegetables, I get funny looks from some cashiers who appar­on tly expect me to get pork hocks and buckets of lard. It sucks that no matter how sophisticated I appear. I'm always compared to Chris Farh~y. wlrn died at :n. And it surks that I can pretty much consider about three-quarters of the available single female population off-limits, since r probably !ind them much more attractive than they find me. 
In a sense, I'm alone in my quest, since I dou 't have one of the al'ornmPntioned support groups. But I don't really want on11. Arter all, I can only blame mys,•lf for my weight (although based on the multimillion-dol­lar tobacco sett.lements, I could probably strike up a class­action lawsuit against Frito­Lay. llershey and McDonald's). 
lndirnctly, though, Notre Dame is helping me out. I have to walk to get anywhern m1 campus. fl tried lo crank lhat ox11rcisn up a notch by buying a bicycle, lrnl the lel't pedal snapped off after a week and half.I Notre Dame Security gaw Ill(' a parking area dnsig­naUori clrivmly designed so that 1have to park at least six miles away from wherever I need to go. Technically, I'm in the CI/Joyc,i South lot. I'm usually closer to Eck Baseball Stadium. I rnl'uso tn ride tho elevator in 0'Shaughnnssy Hall -I'm afraid I'll brnak it. Even other people am helping me out: When my truck was towod f'rom Turtle c:reek because or a parking violation. the security guy that had it hauled made mn walk about a mile to the nearost ATM because I had to pay in cash. I would have thanked him for the extra exer­cise had I not been fuming over a $95 fee. I could have bought another bike for that 
I guess I'm winning: I've lost 54 pounds as of Friday. This brings my weight to ... uh, well, I'll get back to you. 
.Mike Marchand is ajunior English major who lives ojJ~ campus ... in a VAN down by the R/Vf'R'! I/is column appears e/lery other Monday. and his e-mail address is Marchand.:J@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in lhis column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
speak up. 
yiewpoint. l@nd.edu 
EDITORIAL 

Observer supports Cardenas 
The contents of America's melting pot are 
changing. 
Today, one in 10 Americans is foreign-born, and those who immigrate to the U.S. are more likely to arrive from Latin /\merica than from anywhere else in the world. 
America's 10.7 million Hispanics comprise its largest group of foreign-born residents, and the population continues to grow. In fact, the num­ber of foreign-born Hispanics rose 34·percent from 1990 to 1998. 
As the demographics of' our country change, we are far:ed with challenges of communication that surpass language barriers. We must endeavor to understand the cultural differences our neighbors from Latin America bring to the 
U.S. as they arrive from many countries. each with its own unique heritage. 
By hiring Gilberto Cardenas. establishing the Institute for Latino Studies and hosting the Inter-University Program for Latino Research, Nolre Dame has taken a commendable step toward increasing students' awareness of our nation's changing composition. 
By dedicating financial and physical resources to this study. the University has pro­vided an avenue for students and teachers to • further understand the relationship between 
Latinos and American Catholicism, social work, family life and capitalism, We applaud these efforts. 
.Cardenas. in a guest column in The Observer, invited students to help develop programs and courses the Institute will o!Ter. He stressed that the Institute exists for everyone. not just for Latino students. 
We support Cardenas in this invitation and further extend the call to the University com­munity. The Latino influence in America is not limited to one sphere of society but has an impact on every facet of U.S. culture. 
Thus. we encourage students and teachers of business, 'physical sciences, architecture, law, languages, literature and social sciences to explore how their fields are touched -directly and indirectly -by Latino influences. 
We ask them to meet with representatives of the Institute to discuss how to create and imple­ment programs that will match educational needs they discover within their disciplines. 
We encourage Notre Dame students, faculty and administrators to use the resources at hand to broaden fields of study across the entire University. In doing so, this community's mem­bers will be better equipped to serve and live in a diverse and ever-changing world. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

This is in response to of their citizens to grow up Gabriel Martinez's column, healthy and bear many chil­"Don't be afraid to let our chit-dren, creating more mouths to dren grow" !l0n/99). feed. Eventually. the excess 
Contrary to what Martinez grain that we have now will believes, expressing concern t_urn into a shortage, resulting and fear about thn effects tha't!l ~r\\ifltiassive deaths from starva­buman overpopulation has onhl0 -lion. the world does not make a one In an attempt to prevent this a misanthrope. fn fact, it tradgedy, humans will contin­makes one a concerned and ue to convert natural ecosys­informed world citizen. terns into agricultural ecosys-Human overpopulation is a tems in order to grow more very real and dangerous prob-food. When this happens, lem that must be dealt with if native plants and animals are the human race is to have any destroyed to make room for chance for survival in the next species that are useful to millenium. humans. The desertificaton of 
Advances in agricultme are Africa. the dust bowl of North mainly to blame for the prob-America, and the destruction !em of overpopulation. As of tropical rainforests are all technology advances, humans examples of this. If this trend are able to yield more food per continues, the adverse effects acre. When large countries on non-human species will be like the United States grow dangerously wide-spread. extra grain and give it to Aside from the food issue, Third World countries, it the earth docs not have appears that we are doing enough natural resources to these countries a favor: Saving continue to support a growing their citizens' lives by provid-population. Conservative esti­ing them with food. In reality, mates predict that the world's though, we are making their oil reserves contain only situations worse. The food enough oil to fuel the world that they receive allows more for about 43 more years. 
When our natural resources are tapped dry and billions are dying from starvation. it will be too late to romedy the over-population problem. The time to look for solutions is now I would like ptwple to think about the cffncts Lhat overpopulation is alrnady hav­ing and will continue to have on the Earth. 
I am not suggesting that the 
U.S. resort to anything as drastic as China's policy on overpopulation. I'm simply asking that each of you think about the consequences of having a large family. Is it worth the strain that you will be putting on tlrn Earth and her resources? 
If anyone is intnrnstnd in learning more about this prob­lem, PLEASE read Daniel Quinn's "Ishmael," which si10ws the correlation between overpopulation and tlrn prob­lems that thn human race faces today. 
Brooke Warner 
Sophomore LeMans Hall October 7, 1999 


O
THE page 12 BSERVER Monday, October 11, 1999 
God, Country, Notre D 
Notre Dame alumnus Ryan Ver Berkmoes offers a humorous reflection on the U 
By MIKE VANEGAS Scene Editor 

Thev did not match. Those purple socks did not match. 
But seemingly without a care in Urn world, 1983 Notre Dame alumnus Ryan Ver Berkmoes pulli>d off the mismatch with his vibrant personality and expansive memory. This energy allows him to tell stories with prideful ease, knowing full Wl~ll that the tales he shares are sunken treasures, waiting to be discovered by lonely contemporaries who want only to smile, and maybe laugh out loud. 
While speaking with Ver Bcrkmoes, and subse­quently while transcribing his words, the value of his entertaining chatter rose exponentially. Born in Santa Cruz, Calif., Ver Berkmoes was able to learn early the diversity in pt>oples and ideas which pre­sents itself throughout the world, a world he would eventually conquer as a modt:ffn~day Magellan -he is currently a travel writer for Lonely Planet Publications. In retrospect, he also realized thnrugh Santa Cruz a universal motif for the concept of home. 
"[It's al strange little town. Beautiful place, absolutely gorgeous," he said. "And growing up there, you don't really .realize it's beautiful. It's like wherever you grow up; it's your home. I go back now. and it's sort of jaw-droppingly beautiful, and at the time it was just: 'It was neat, and the beach was across the street.' Really, it was where you were a kid. You didn't go to some suburb in Iowa and say, 'Ooh. this isn't very nice here.' But you weren't really aware of it." 
Ver Berkmoes noted, though, that the allure of Santa Cruz ultimately was not his personal connec­tion to the city as home, but that socially and politi­cally, it was perhaps the most happening place in America. 
"It's possibly the most liberal city in the U.S., where if you're a liberal democrat, you're consid­ered a Fascist," he said. "The free weekly paper ­my poor mom has never gotten over this -in the mid-'70s did a big cover story .._. very graphically illustrating how lesbians could get pregnant using turkey basters. When you're 15 and you grow up in that kind of environment. it broadens your mind in ways. It was a town filled with gay people and radi­cals and freaks and hippies and you name it, and I'm very happy it was." 
While at :--Jotre Dame, he discovered the opposite of what he had grown up knowing. lie recalled a situation in which two members of the underground group of gay students at Notre Dame went on PBS for an interview, apparently discussing their homo­sexuality. 
"People just went nuts ... the incredible fear and anger that there could be even one gay student at Notre Dame caused people to go berserk," he said. "And I was like. 'lley, man. where I grew up. you know .. .' sitting th11re wearing Birkrmstocks, and to me it was like, 'Well. whatever.' People just went berserk, like throwing rocks at Howard, going and putting graffiti on everything: 'Faggots out.' ... I think the guys had to leave." 
Clearly a lilrnral thinker brought up in a liberal town, Ver Br.rkmoes still chose Notre l)arne, a deci­sion he can't regret in the wake of the happiness he's found as a Domer. And though he won't deny that some of his classes under the Dome were hclp­f'u 1, he openly admits it was his work at The Observer and WNDU. along with the social environ­ment at the University, that guided his future most effectivelv. 
"I learrH'd 90 pi>rcent of what I USf> today [at Notre Darnel,'' said Ver Bcrkmocs. "And 90 percent of what I look back on my college years having pro­vided was outside of class -it was working at The ObsRrver, it was working at the TV stalion, it was being just very involved with a lot of different groups of people ... Interpersonal skills and broad­ening your mind and thinklingl a lot of different things It all r:omPs from that." 
In learning Llw wisdom of college life, Ver Bflrkm(rns never shiPd away from assuring his sto­ries under the Dome would be captivatingly fleshy. \'\iith his laid back attitude, yesterday and today, he proved that Notre Dame could fit any personality. 
For three senwsters of his five-year stay at Notre Dame, Ver Berkmoes lived in Fisher Hall, a place he now refuses to visit -not because it is the bane of his existence, but because the years he spent in the dorm weren't too pleasant. He said that back iu the late '70s, Fisher was made up of only singles, "cells" he called them. And the residents were mainly football and basketball players. The lesson he learned, basically, was that "It's a lot more fun living off campus." 
Hut living off r.ampus didn't mean that Ver Berkmoes was separated from the typical Notre Dame experience. In explaining his hatred for bowl­ing, he uncovercri an SYH story for the ages. 
"My one great bowling experi.cnce was on some wretched screw-your-roommate here with this -woman who lived in Breen-Phillips." he said. "We hadn't known each other that long ... Iler roommate called -'Oh, you wanna go on a bowling date with Lynn?' -and I was lih, 'OK' la very drawn-out 'OK,' as if ho were agreeing to complete an unwant­ed chorel. I went and it turned out my bowling was very inferior. She like blew up and was screaming. 
"At this damn screw-your-roommate. this woman is screaming at me because my bowling skills are terrible. I haven't gone bowling since. To me, bowl­ing means bad tempers and being harangued by crazed women who value their bowling skills. She was from some cold-weather place, so I guess they bowled there. There are no bowling alleys in Santa Cruz. That was one of several romances that didn't blossom." 
Now married, Ver Berkmoes cannot credit his marriage to the any college romances that did blossom. Instead, it was a chance encounter at The Observer's 25th anniversary reunion in 1991 that gave the Notre Dame family marriage stereotype some more fuel ­one sign that in many respects. Notre Dame is unchanging. 
So with Ver Berkmoes visiting South Bend and Notre Dame often (his parents live here), he has firsthand knowledge of the unchanging nature of Notre Dame, something he noted as he read Fridav's issue of The Observer. 
"Yo~ see the same stories," he said. "The student senate and student politi­cians are up to some sort of nonsense and having secret meetings. And all that stuff never really amounts to any­thing, because the administration has always been really smart. They know that in the rare cases, somebodv's here, at most, five years. As long as ·you can put off any student that gets upset for a couple of' years, they're gone. 
"There was this big thing -they were announcing they were gonna build the first dorms in about 20 years. Since they finished Grace and Flanner, no dorms were built in the '70s. So they were gonna build the f'irst of those two low-rise cheap things over hy Grace and Flanner -the Pasquerillas -so there was· this big movement to have one of them be coed. The administration just humored it all along and announced a 25-month study project, knowing that all the people behind it would be long out in the real world before [construc­tion was cornplc>tedl. Thi' same thing always goes: no matter how upsel lhe students get about anything in particu­lar, they're gonna go." 
But Ver Berkmocs also noted that some things have changer! drastically as well, for better or worse. 
"When I was a student, the ratio was two-and-a-half mf'n to onr woman. That vvas governed in part by lhe dorms," he said. "Now they have open admissions ... which I think is a great thing ... It's so stupid -it was artificial quotas and alt that kind of stuff. which was nonsense. And you do notice now. it seems a little more like a normal pop­ulation in that sense. 
"Because I'd have classes whern even though thc1 ratio was two-and-a-half to one, it was just sort of' luck of the draw; there'd be 100 guys and three women, And there was definitely a whole lot of class action suits had yet to come to the forefront then." 
But not everything Ver Berkmoes noticed was so controversial. The recent addition of franchise restaurants to the campus also sparked some inter­est in the writer, as he sipped on his jumbo col'fon from Starbucks. 
"The burgers at the Huddle were so bad when I was a student. They were so wretched, they were so pitiful. that the Burger King burg­
"ft's the franchising ofAmerica. and f 
er has to 
brand name, an

bo a better burger, as bad as the Ryan Ver Berkmoe~, commenting on thi Burger 
travel writer and I

King burg­(H may be, 'cause the Huddle ones wern just. you could not cal them. they were just crap," he said. 
"It's the franchising of America. and you can't get 
Notre Dame alumnus Ryan Ver Berkmoes recently visited Notre Dame
institutional sexism going on. You had teachers that were openly sexist ... recounted humorous stories about his experiences and spoke of the e 

NSIDER 
O
THE 
Monday, Ocrober I I, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame vs. Arizona State 

• Notre Dame capitalizes on Arizona State's six turnovers 
Hy BRIAN KESSLER 
.'ipom hlm,r 
I 
Bdnrn tlw ganw with Arizona Stal!\, NotrP llanw offensive coordinator Kl'vin Hognrs was 
kidding around with two or the Irish sal<•lil's. 
"I was joking with /\'Jani ISandPrsl and DPkt' !Cooper! 111\forn Llw ganw and they said, ';\n• you going to put up 40 IpointsI Loday,"' l{ogors said. "I said, 'You turn it ovPr fivP times and I'll put up 40."' 
Hogt>rs didn't know it at lhe tinw, but that's nxactlv what would hapfH'll Saturday.·· 
llw Sun lkvils turned tho ball oV<'r six limns and watched a scondPss first quarll\r turn into a 48-17 Irish victory. 
"This is a great example of what lrnppnns wlwn you don't turn the football ov1\r and when you makP hig plays," said IH1ad coach Bob llavit>. whosn team 
improvnd to :l-:{ on tlw snason. 
"I givP om l'oothall t('Ulll crC'dit. 
This is the second week in a row without a turnover. I think that open date really help<'d us." 
Arizona State got off to a quick start early, but two turnovers and a missed field goal by Stephen Baker in the opening quarter took away its momentum. The Irish respond­ed by scoring 41 points in a span of' 17 minutes to put the game out of roach early in the third. 
"I thought we moved tlrn ball well," Arizona Stale hnad coach HrucP Synd<ff said. "We played· good football. so when the av alanclw s tarled, that's a sense of frustration vou deal with." • 
The avalanche started early in the sncond when quarterback Jarious Jackson (10-or-17 for 223 yards) found Bobby Brown on a 23-yard fade. On the next play, Brown beat Arizona Stutn's Kevin Williams once again. resulting a 42-yard srore and a 7-0 hiad. 
"Jarious and I wern just trying to stress that if they arc going to bring evnrybody, w1i have to make th,1111 pay." said Rrown. who had three r.atches for 84 yards. "And making tlmm pay is not a 10 ya.rdl'r. We're going to go dnep . .larious did a good job of placing the ball all day." 
ASU quarterback Hyan Kealy, on the other hand, had some difficulty. On the Sun Devils first play following the Irish touch­down, Kealy was intercepted by Sanders, who returned it for a 28-vard touchdown. 
"i made my drop in the cover three zone to the riat," said Sanders. who also returned an interception for a touchdown against ASU last year. "I went out there with the receiver and he IFlowersI turned up field and [Kealy! just threw il out there. I was like thanks. I picked it and took it home." 
Trailing 14-0, Kealy and the Sun Devils tried to mount a comeback, but another turnover halted their efforts. With ASU driving. tight end Todd Heap was stripped by Grant Irons and Cooper came up with his second fumble recovery or the game. 
"We were just trying to make things happen all day," Irons said. "I think the defense is real­ly playing well togotlHir and wo just try to make turnovers for the olfonsn." 
/\ 25-yard run by Tony Fisllflr and a 44-yard rush by Jackson put the Irish in scoring position once again. Two plays later, Jackson found tight end Dan O'Leary for a 6-yard touchdown pass. 
"It was pretty exciting," O'Leary said. "J told Jarious I could smell it before he even called it. I knew it was coming. They were playing man defense and the guy who was covering me slipped and luckily Jarious saw and threw it on a bee-line to me. It was a great play to call from the 6-yard line on second down. I don't think the defense was expecting it." 
Cooper intercepted Kealy on the next ASU possession and on the next play Jackson found Joey Getherall for a touchdown on a 25-yard post pattern to give the Irish a 27-0 halftime lead. 
At the half', the Irish offense only had one more yard than the Sun Devils, but turnovers proved to be the difference. Arizona State turned it over live limes, including three intercep­tions. 
"!Turnovers arcI the butlom line," Rogers said. "One team turns it over six timos. I'm not sure how good we were on offense, but we got thf~ ball on the short side of the field a cou­ple times. Every time we turned it over, except for Kansas. we lost, so it's huge. It's probably the biggest factor in a football game." 
Jackson, on the other hand. countered Kcaly's three first­half interceptions had thrne touchdown passes. 
"Jarious steps up and makes big plays," Davie said. "He's playing the best football of his career and that's a pretty big statement. He's back healthy and he's conlidnnt in his tnam­mates, especially thosn guys up front." 
Jackson opened the third­quarter scoring with a 48-yard touchdown run. the longest of his career. Freshman tailback Julius Jones then pushed the lead to 41-0 with a 13-yard touchdown run. the first ol' his r,aroer. 
ASU finally got on tlrn board late in the third with a 1-yard touchdown run by Gerald Green, but Jackson still wasn't linishcd. 
With 11 :31 remaining in Urn game, Jackson evaded a tackler in the backfield and wnnt up top to Jay Johnson for a 31-yard touchdown. Jackson's fourth touchdown pass of the day tied a school record. Ile also had 93 rush yards on nine t'.a1-rios. 
ASU addl~d 10 points in tlrn closing minutes of the gamo, 


quote of the game
player of the game 

stat of the game 
Jarious Jackson 

+6 Irish turnover margin
"We are not a .500 team. We just
The Irish captain set new 

Notre Dame held -onto the ball 
had a couple ofgames that 
and capitalized on Arizona
career highs for longest run 

didn't go our way." 
State's turnovers to capture
from scrimmage with a 48-yard 

Bobby Brown 
its most convincing win 
run and touchdown passes in a 

Irish receiver 
under Bob Davie.
game with four. 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 11, 1999 
report card 
A 
quarterbacks; Jackson continued his 
great play and lied the Notre Dame 
record for touchdown passes in a 
game with four. 
8-
running backs: Jones and Fisher ran 
well to the outside but the power 
running game up the middle is still suffering. 
A 
receivers: The Sun Devils kept 
blitzing and the Irish kept throwing 
deep and punishing them. 
8-
offensive line: Jackson was sarked twice and there wasn't much room to run up the middle. 
8+ 
defensive line: Irons forced a fumble and the unit combined for three tackles for a loss an<l a sack. 
linebackers: J)enman led the ream with
8 
~ eighl tackles and also forced a fumble. Nicks played well in his first 
game back as a starter. 
A 
defensive backs: The secondary played its best game ofthe year. Three interceptions, two fumble recoveries 
and 30 tackles is amazing. 
D 
special teams: A blacked punt. a 
blocked extra point and a missed 
field goal will hurt the Irish against a better team. 
8 
coaching: Da11ie had the guts to pull Sanson and the Irish are a better team 
for it. Offense and defense played well togetherfor the.first time this year. 
overall: A convincing victory and a good stepping stone before the USC game. 
3.11 

adding up the nun1bers 
touchdowns on consecutive 
3 
Jackson passes 

5 
touchdowns Jackson accounted for -four passing, 
one running 
largest Irish victory margin since 1996 
31 

27 
most points scored in a quarter by the Irish under Bob Davie 
1999 red zone touchdowns 
9 

allowed by the Irish defense in 21 chances 
2 
career interceptions returned for a touchdown by A'Jani Sanders 
-both have come against ASU 
number of consecutive turnover­
8 

free quarters by the Irish 
20 
1999 first-quarter points 
surrendered by the Irish 
IRISH INSIGHT 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer Senior kicker Jim Sanson anguishes over his missed field goal in the first quarter. The miss was his third straight miss and his fifth miss of the season. 
Sanson's done no-w it's Miller tinte 
Before Jim Sanson even stepped onto the field in the first quarter to try a 33-yard field goal, he had already missed. 
The boos of the Irish fans destroved his 
confidence. His five missed field goals in 1999 weighed on him. His two misses against Oklahoma­both from under 25 yards 

-hung in the back of his Mike Connolly mind. 
By the time 
associate

he lined up for the field goal sports editor attempt that could be the last of his career. Sanson had already missed the last field goal of his career. 
"I got booed going out there and I got booed coming back," Sanson said after the game. "I was losing either way, it didn't really matter. I am kind of disgusted right now. 
"What I felt in the back of my mind was getting booed going out there," he continued. "But that's the usual here at Notre Dame. I have gotten used to that during my four years here." 
Hey Jim, if you're disgusted, how do you think Irish fans have felt for the past four years? 
For Sanson's career he has missed 40 percent of his field goals and is just 3-for-8 in 1999. Irish confidence in Sanson has eroded so much that the student section held up crossed fingers when he took the field. 
Throughout his career, Irish fans have said a few extra Hail Marv's in the hope that somehow the Lady on the Dome can guide the ball through the uprights. 
At just about every school in the country, you will find football fans praying for their kicker to make field goals. 
At Notre Dame, however, fans have spent four years prayi1Jg that Sanson will make an extra point. 
Saturday's missed field goal, like every other missed field goal, was a good kick, according to Sanson. 
"I thought I hit the ball well," he said. "It looked like it was going right through the middle but at the last second it just turned to the right." 
Maybe Sanson is having a hard time understanding the concept of kicking field goals -if it doesn't go through the uprights, you didn't kick it well. It doesn't matter how good a kick starts oi-if it looks good on its way toward the goal posts. 
In the past, Irish fans could only groan when Sanson missed a kick and then wait for him to come back out onto the field and miss another one. But after he missed two against Oklahoma and then anoth­er against Arizona State, head coach Bob Davie finally did the right thing and sent sophomore David Miller out to try the extra point following Bobby Brown's 42­yard touchdown catch. 
And then an amazing thing hap­pened: A Notre Dame kicker made a kick. Miller hit the ball well ­and here's the really incredible part -it actually went through the uprights. 
It wasn't one of Sanson's patent­ed "good kicks gone bad" but instead the ball started off good, was good in the middle and fin­ished off good by giving the Irish a poini. 
For the day, Miller was 6-for-7 on extra point tries. His only miss was not his fault. Arizona State's Junior loane burst through the line cleanly and blocked the kick. Miller had no chance. 
Davie seemed satisfiC'd with Miller's efforts after the game. 
"I thought David got the football up extremely quick," he said. "I think that David Miller will proba­bly be the kicker next week." 
Irish fans can now breathe a sigh of relief, except for that one little word -probably. Unless freshman kicker Nick Setta has an absolutely incredible week in practice, who else but Miller is going to be tlw kicker next week? 
"I am disappointed for Jim," Davie continued. "That doesn't mean it's over for Jim. It's a long season but Jim knew going in he had to be productive." 
This doesn't mean it's over for Jim? Is Davie trying to tell us that Sanson might attempt another field goal this season? 
When \1iller assessed his situa­tion, he gave the perl'cct reason why Sanson should never attempt another field goal for the Irish. 
"This is big time football so if I am not getting the job done then they have to take me out," he said. "If you're not getting the job done at work, then you are going to get fired." 
Davie often talks about how great Sanson perfroms in practice. He talks about charting field goals and comparing practice statistics. He constantly says that Sanson is win­ning the battle in practice. Sanson may win the battle in practice but he loses the war on the field. 
Arizona State quarterback Ryan Kealy probably doesn't throw three interceptions in practice -but he did on Saturday. 
"I have hit balls in practice with a snap and a hold and a rush so I figure, 'Why can't I do i.t out there?"' Miller said about his confi­dence in kicking field goals against USC and the rest of the Notrn Dame schedule. 
That's a good question, David. Why don't you ask Sanson? Ile has made kicks in practice throughout his career -only to miss them when they matter. 
But it doesn't matter what kicks Sanson missed in the past games or how many kicks he makes in future practices. Because now, it's Miller time. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Monday, October I1, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Secondary steals game from Sun Devils 
Sanders, for the second time in 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
two years, intercepted a ball Assistant Sporrs Ediwr 
and ran it back for a touch· down, against tlrn same quar­
Behind the leadership or terback, against the samfl team, s1rniors Dcke Cooper, A'.Jani obviously," head coach Bob Sanders and Deveron Harper, Davie said. the Notre Dame secondary Last year's interr.eption also stripped the Arizona State came early in the second quar­offense of the ball every chance ter with Notre Dame leading it got Saturday. Arizona Statn 7-0. Sanders 
The defensive backl'ield n1turned thn '98 intercept.ion 25 forced five of the six ASU yards f'or a touchdown, nearly turnovers, with Cooper leading identical to Saturday's return. the way. Harper, Sandors and Frne safoty Coopnr did morn Cooper combined Lheir nf'l'nrt.s t.han his shar11 on dnfims11, with to pick up three intercoptions in his two f'urnbln rncovcrins and the first half off of ASU quarwr­an intnrcnption. Notrn Danrn back Ryan Kealy. Cooper added nndnd up getting touchdowns two fumble rncoverifls to swing on tlrn drives aflnr his intnrcep­the game's momentum in favor tion and third-quarter f'umbln of Notre Dame. rncov1~ry. 
"There's a dirnct correlation The interception capped off a to the defense," offensivfl coor­27-point second quarter scoring dinator Kevin Rogers said. run with the play following "They turned the ball over five Coopor's intercoption. times for us, giving us opportu­Kealy's pass had heen intend­nities, because very frankly, we od for ASU wide receiver were struggling in the first Hichard Williams, but Cooper half." caught the overthrown pass, 
Notre Dame was unable to returning it :n yards to the ASU score in the first quarter. 25-yard line bnfore being Luckily, neither was Arizona brought down by Flowers. On State, thanks in large part to a the very next play, Jackson hit fumble recovery by Cooper and Joey Getherall for a 25-yard an interception by Harper. touchdown. 
"Turnovers always give you a The secondary has helped lot of momentum," senior cor­lead the Irish all year long. All nerback Harper said. "You just four starters for the defensive hope the offense keeps the backfield -Cooper, Sanders, ball." Harper and sophomore Clifford 
· The Irish got on the score­Jefferson are among the top five board with 10 minutes, 56 sec­tacklers for the Irish this sea­onds remaining in the second sm1. quarter with a 42-yard touch­"We had three seniors back down pass from quarterback there [this year)," Sanders said. Jarious Jackson to Bobby "We felt like this is our turn. • Brown. We're seniors -me and 
But it was Sanders that really Deveron and Deke. We're going sparked the Irish offense less to hit and we're going to get big than a minute later when he plays. As a del'Hnse, you've got intercepted a Kealy pass intend­to want to get the turnovers. ed for Delvon Flowers, return­"It helps a lot," Jackson said. ing the ball 28 yards for a "Like when A'Jani ran that ball touchdown. back for the touchdown, that's 
"This is the mark of a good easy points to me. I know it's defense. When you get the lead, not easy points because he is you've got to keep it," strong working hard and covering peo­safety Sanders said. "After ple, but as long as the score­Deveron got the interception, board is lighting up on our side, our hands were just itching. I I am all for it." guess I was in the right place at Although Notre Dame's the right time." defense gave up 263 passing 
Sanders' play was nearly yards on the day, the aggressive identical to one which he made play of the secondary helped in last year's Notre Dame 29-8 keep Arizona State's scorn to 17 victory over Arizona State. points, with only seven before 
"It's amazing -A' Jani the final quarter. 
AP Poll scoring summary & stats ESPN/USA Today Poll 

team record points scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 1 Florida State (63) 6-0 1,743 
Arizona Slate 0 0 7 10 17 
2 Penn Stale (6) 6-0 1,678 
Notre Dame 

3 Nebraska 6-0 1,595 4 Virginia Tech (1) 5-0 1,497 
team statistics ND ASU
5 Michigan State 6-0 1,408 6 Tennessee 4·1 1,398 first downs 18 24 7 Florida 5-1 1,282 rushes-yards 47-265 40-186 B Georgia Tech 4·1 1,258 passing-yards 223 263 9 Kansas State 5-0 1,212 
comp-alt-int 10-17-0 24-39-3 
10 Michigan 5•1 1,171 
return yards 68 137
11 Alabama 4-1 991 
punts-average 5-33 3-34.3
12 Mississippi Stale 6-0 927 
fumbles-lost 0-0 5-3
13 Texas A&M 4•1 926 14 Georgia 4-1 778 penallies-yards 6-35 6-35 
15 Marshall 5-D 760 lime ofpossession 30:13 29:47 16 Syracuse 5-1 715 17 Wisconsin 4-2 606 individual statistics 
18 Oltio State 4-2 588 passing 19 Texas 5-2 454 NI) -Jackson 10-17-0 20 Purdue 4-2 366 
ASU -Kealy 18·30·3, Goodman 4-5-0, Leonard 2·4·0 
21 BYU 4-1 341 
rushing

22 Mississippi 5-1 218 
ND-Jackson 9-93, Jones 8-36, Fisher 7-35, Howard 5-26, Driver
23 East Carolina 5-1 205 

7•24, Goodspeed 2-4, O'Neill 2·4, Batlle 5·3, Lopienski 2-2
24 Miami (Fla.) 2-3 161 
ASIJ -Flowers 11-70, Redmond 13-63, Green 4-27, Hightower 8·
25 Southern Miss, 3,2 124 24, Goodman 1·(-1), Kealy 3·(-3), Williams 1-(·6), Leonard 1·(·10) 
receiving

other teams receiving votes: Air Force 67, Arizona 59. Minnesota 56, NOTRE DAME 51, ND -Brown 3-84, Getherall 2-37, Fisher 1-34, Johnson 1-31, 
Arkansas 33, Washington 25, Maryland 20, Kentucky Goodspeed 1-16, Howard 1-15, O'Leary 1-6 
14, NC Slate 5, Utah 5, Oklahom11 3, Pittsburgh 3, ASU -Heap 8-100, McDonald 7-81, Redmond 2-19, USC 3. Stanford 2, Wake Forest 1, Wyoming 1 Hightower 2-16, Green 1-19, Forth 1-11, Flowers 1-10, Jennings 1-5, WIiiiams 1-2 
scoring team record points 
summary 1 Florida State (53) 6·0 1,469 1st 2 Penn State (6) 6·0 1,412 none 3 Nebraska 6·0 1,334 2nd 4 Virginia Tech 5-0 1,271 
ND -11:06 
5 Tennessee 4•1 1,179
Brown 42-yd. pass 
from Jackson 6 Florida 5-1 1,139 
MIiier kick, 7-0 7 Mfobigan State 6•0 1,128 ND -10:48 
8 Kansas State 5-0 1,072
Sanders 28-yd. Interception relurn 
9 Georgia Tech 4•1 1,047 Miller kick, 14·0 10 Michigan 5-1 936 ND -7:13 
11 TexasA&M 4•1 862 
O'Leary 6-yd. pass 
12 Mississippi State 6-0 836
lrom Jackson Miller kick, 21-0 13 Alabama 4-1 757 ND -5:42 
14 Georgia 4·1 648 
Gelherall 25-yd. pass 
15 Syracuse 5-1 620
from Jackson 
kick blocked, 27-0 16 Marshall 5-0 605 3rd 17 Ohio State 4·2 525 ND-11:59 18 Wisconsin 4-2 472 
Jackson 48-yd. run 19 Texas 5-2 399 MIiier kick, 34-0 
20 BYU 4·1 322
ND-9:46 Jones 13-yd. run 21 Purdue 4-2 282 MIiier kick, 41·0 22 MISSl$$ippl 5-1 244 
/ISU-6:39 
23 East Carolina 5·1 125
Green 1-yd. run Baker kick, 41·7 24 Miami (Fla.) 2·3 93 25 Air Force 4-1 71
4th 
NIJ-11;31 
Johnson 31-yd. P••• other teams receiving votes: Southern Miss. from Jackson 61, Maryland 42, Arkansas 40, Arizona 39, USC 22, 
Miller kick, 48·7 
Missouri 19, kentutky 19, Minnesota 15, NC State
ASU-6;39 
Dakar 45-yd. FG 13, Washington 12, Boston College 8, Colorado Stale 48-10 8, NOTRE DAME 8, Virginia 8, Colorado 4, Hawaii 3, 
ASU-:48 
Oregon 3, Wake forest 2, Fresno State 1, Utah 1
Jennings 5-yd. pass lram Goodman Baker kick, 48•17 
'\ 
O
THE 

Notre Dame vs. Arizona State BSERVER MOnday, October 11, 1999 


.­
Notre Dame improved to 3-3 on the season Saturday with a convincing 48-17 victory over Arizona State. The Irish amassed 450 yards on offense and turned six Sun 
Devil turnovers into seven touchdowns. Quarterback Jarious Jackson was a one-man highlight reel with three touchdown passes and a scoring run. Notre Dame will now have a week to prepare for USC, a team that has won three in a row against the Irish. 
-


-7 ------­
p 


Ct 
n 
E 
Monday, October 11, 1999 OBSERVER page 13 
ame and 'Baywatch' 
ique culture at Notre Dame and how it fits into the grand scheme ofthe world 
anywh1H·1• wht\l'I' it's not a brand name, and that bugs lllP," ht~ addt\d. "When I do travnl writing, I trav!'l around tlw world and write hooks about where to go, and it's just such a shame to see indi­vidual characlnr being lost." . 
So wlwn Im was first introduced to Burger King at tlw Iluddl,•, Vnr B,1rkmocs could only react with a craznd aslonishmnnt. 
"When I saw the Burgor King, whenover it opened, I camn on 
u can 'l get anywhere where it ·s not a I campus I and I
t.lzat bugs me." 
called my wife that resence of Burger King at Notre Dame night, that's
tre Dame alumnus 
when we 

wnre in c;nrmany: 'Tlwy put a f....*in' BurgPr King on cam­pus, can you lwlitwn il. Nothing is sacrod!'" 
As V,·r BPrkmoes travols around llrn world for his 

Lonely Planet 1·osoarch, discovering the simple and 
sacred pleasures of places ranging from Peoria, III., 
to the Arctic Circle, he indeed widens his world 
view -a view grounded in liberalism, taken for a 
short, five-vear ride on conservativism and now 
coasting along in wbateverdom -at every stop 
along the map. But to abandon the freewheeling spirit or his cur­rnnl life would be to abandon the greatness of humanity: the ability lo communicate, to tell a story. And Ver lforkmoes certainly can tell a story. For this reason, what follows are miscellaneous comments and stories tbe purple-socked Ver BcrkrnrH1s willingly put forward in his colorful interview, each with its own unique spirit, concern­ing lifo at Notre Dame and beyond. 
On the Eck Center: "As a parent. I'd just be like, 'Jesus, we're gonna have to sell the house.' It's like, add another zero to the ustimated budget !'or sending your kid here." 
On Notre Dame football: 
"When I was a senior in high school, they were No. 1, which was great fun because I went to a little school in Santa Cruz, and people were all like, 'Wowwwwww. very cool man.' 
"And then, the first year was still Devine lhis fourth year]. and he lost like two ganrns. Losing two games, peo­ple were painting out his parking place, throwing crap al his house. The next year. he went 8-3, which was just con­sidered an abomination. People were really still so victory-hungry. They'd been No. 1 in '73 and they were No 1 in '77. The fact that he could do some­thing such as lose three games in a sea­son was outrageous. 
"When he left after l'ive years, he was run out of town. Everybody couldn't stand him. I used to say little things in a quiet, little voice, 'Well. gee, one national championship in five years, isn't that ...· 'Ara was better, J\ra was better' [in a deep voice, imitating those who disagreed with his sympathetic question I. 
"So then they brought in Faust, which taught nv11qdrndy to have reduced expectations. I think his lwst season might have been 7-4. So I had three years of Faust. He was a vpry, very nice man ... such a cheerleader, such a ra­m, and such a terrible coach. He did teach people that 6-5 could occur." 
On watching Notre Dame football today: 
"The Faust years were so painful ... history keeps repeating ils!llf', 'cause the Fallst years, one of tlw hallmarks was having a bad place kicker. I cannot tell you how many times it would come down to the 1\1Hl. ... S,o when we're watching il on TV. it's like, can't they ever get someone who can kick the ball'? It's 1rndlnss. It's like 'Groundhog Day.' It's bad-kicker-at -Notri> Dame­Day. 1 can't believe that these other guys they got could bo any worso." 
On the current ambiance of Notre Dame: 
"The place has gone much more uµsca le, Even when I was lrnre, you used lo see the older alums, who were probably my age or something now. We thought thny were just sonw g1rnzers ... I met a bunch of guys who'd been alums from the 'fiOs ... we were all too brokH to go anywhere fall break, so we went out to Michigan, which was still .18 then. and bought a bunch of' this horrible Blatz and crap -bad wine and bad beer that vnu buv when you're 18 and dumb. W<' ;vere cc>ming b:lck, walk­ing across south quad, and thoro were these guys, these old alums, who were out walking around: 'Hey, you guys got something to drink in there?' We're like. 'Yeah.' and they're like, 'Hey, we'll give you 20 bucks for that thing of wine.' J\nd we're like, 'Well, gee, sir. We paid like three dollars.' 'You kids could use the money.' But Ornn we started talking to them, and they were passing around this three dollar jug of Carlo Rossi or sonrnthing, and the impression l really got from them ... was that tho roots of Notre Dame was a very middle class. even really blue collar, place to send your kid. IL was working Catholic. Their dream was for their kid to. go here. And I don't know what llw stats are now . but just the feel of the place does not have a sort of middle class anymorn. 
"The typical car of the student was lhe bad Ford Ltd. wagon from the early '70s that was rusty and had been handed down ... What I do think when you kind of go through the studrmt parking lots now ... a lot of people ... have new cars. J\nd I think the char­actc r of' the place has gone more upscale. Everything is much nici;r and richer looking." 
On travel writing: 

"You need to talk to people wherever you go. Find out from the people who live there what's neat. Talk to average people, just regular folks, whoever you encounter, and just, 'What is happening'''" 
On his wedge into Lonely Planet: 
"Right place, right time." 
Part two on bowling: 

"The opiate of tho '.'vlidwest." 
Favorite movie from college years: 
'" Animal House' -That was a very seminal movie for me -'Was il really gonna be like that'?"' 
On 'Titanic': 

"If I ever hear that song again ... Worldwide, you cannot escape that damn song. You can't escape the movie, you can't escape the song." 
On American culture abroad: 
"American culture has sort of conquered the world. Really, mass popular culture, it's just every­where. There's no escaping it. Movies, TV, music, the works. And especially with the British, what they comment on a lot is the sort of hypocrisy of it all, 'cause America's seen as this placn riven with fundamentalist Christian arguments, stu·rr like Notre Dame saying you can't run ads from the gay and lesbian community, yet J\merican pop culture is nothing but juvenile celebrations of sex and vio­lence.... If Trent Lott gives a speech, it gets equal play, like he's representing America. So they see America moralizing about this, that and the other thing. and then inundating the world with .., 'Baywatch."' !Note: he also calls it "wretched enter­tainmnnt."l 
On 'Baywatch' in Germany: 
"It's huge. It really, really is. We wnnt tlwrn in 119961, and I'd heard it was [big]. Likn, was it an urban legend or something'! But, no, them was really these patl111tic Germans that lik11 David llasselhoff t-shirts. His CDs, you'd see them on the best-snlling racks of CD stores. Ile really was big." 
On Music: 

"When I'm on tlrn road, I try to listen to wh1•rcvnr 1am, what they're talking ab1;ut on tlrn radio. "l got a ticket in Canada last year. Tim nnw Sheryl Crow album had comr out. There was onn on there 
i.n particular, with the guns at tho Wal-Marl store, and I was likP. 'Man, what a great lint•,' and I start­ed spneding and tho guy caught me. I was in the middlP or nowhere, and I was likn, 'Ynah. ~uns at Wal-Mart: good job."' 
On being a Bulls fan in Chicago: 
"You had to be, and s11r(1, why not?" 
On Notre Dame when Father Hesburgh was president: 
"It was like having an absentee landlord in a lot of respects." 
On plans for the future: 
"Who knows?" 
-T 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 11, 1999 
NCAA ·FooTBALL 

Miallli stays strong despite two defeats 
Associated Press 

CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
The Miami Hurricanes lost their fifth straight game against Florida State and are on a three-game losing streak for only the second time in 15 years. 
And they still have Virginia Tech and Syracuse, two ranked opponents, on their schedule. 
But Miami coach Butch Davis isn't worried. 
The Hurricanes (2-3), the only team to face No. 1 Florida State and No. 2 Penn State already this season, have one of the toughest schedules in the nation. 
Their losses were by a com­bined 18 points. And they led in all three of their defeats, includ­ing blown fourth-quarter leads against the Nittany Lions and East Carolina. 
Davis sees signs that his team, which fell from 19th to 24th in the rankings Sunday, is close to fully recovering from the 31 scholarships it lost to NCAA sanctions between 1995 and 1997. 
"Two years ago the light at the end of the tunnel looked a long way off," said Davis, recalling an embarrassing 47-0 loss in Tallahassee in 1997. 'Today the light looks a hell of a lot closer." 
He just needs more quality players. 
"Depth certainly is missing to a certain extent," Davis said Sunday, a day after the 31-21 loss to the Seminoles. "Depth in some of the position places and experience, but that's what this season and seasons bring." 
This season still could bring a lot more for Miami. 
After five nonconference games, the Hurricanes play seven straight Big East oppo­nents beginning with Temple on Saturday. Winning the confer­ence title would ensure Miami a spot in the Bowl Championship Series. 
"It's like two seasons," Davis said. "We had five nonconfer­ence games, and those are over with. Now we've got to turn our attention to seven consecutive conference games and look at this as a fresh start. We're 0-0, and we'll see what happens." 
The Hurricanes hope to see quarterback Kenny Kelly play like he did against the Seminoles. He completed 27 of 41 passes for 370 yards and three touchdowns. 
Though Kelly threw his ninth interception of the season, Davis said he had the best perfors mance of his two-year career. 
"Kenny played extremely well," he said. "He showed a lot of poise, a lot of maturity. He made outstanding decisions with the football. He threw it out of bounds, avoided sacks and didn't try to fopce things that could have conceivably turned into interceptions. He played like we expect him to play for the next two years." 
That could mean an eventual win against the Seminoles. 
But for now, the Hurricanes will have to settle for being labeled the best three-loss team in the country, a distinction that means little to the players. 
"They only give away consola­tion prizes in game shows," line­backer Hod '.'vlack said. 

Spartans, Saban stay undefeated 
Associa_ted Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Don't worry about Nick Saban. The Michigan State coach will be fine, if he can ever stop smiling. 
Saban has been hoping since coming to East Lansing in 1995 that the rivalry between the Spartans and mighty Michigan could be like the one in Florida between the Gators and Florida State. 
On Saturday, he got his wish. 
He got a big victory, too. Easily the biggest of his career. 
Bill Burke passed for a school-record 400 yards and two touchdowns, and Plaxico Burress caught 10 passes for a school-record 255 yards and a score as the Spartans held off the Wolverines 34-31 in a showdown of Big Ten unbeatens. 
"This is the best feeling I've ever had, and the happiest l've ever seen our team," Saban said. "lt is just too bad that either side had to lose." 
The win left Michigan State, ;which began the season unranked, 6-0 overall and 3-0 in the conference. The Wolverines, hoping for a sec­ond national title in three years, slipped to 5-1, 2-1. 
The outcome sent Michigan. State from No. 11 to No. 5 in the rankings. Michigan dropped from No. 3 to No. 10. 
"This team was as confident as I have ever seen them, but they didn't get caught up in the hoopla," Saban said. ''I'm very proud of that." 
The trick now will be to 
keep his players on track. The 
"This is the best feeling I've ever had, and the happiest I've ever seen our team." 
Nick Saban Michigan State head coach 

Spartans are at Purdue this week, at Wisconsin the fol­lowing week, then at home against Ohio State. If he can guide this team unbeaten through that stretch. Saban might be a lock for coach of the year. 
Still, the way Burke and Burress are progressing, any­thing is possible. 
Burke completed 21 of 36 passes and became the first player to pass for 400 yards for Michigan State, breaking the mark of 369 by Ed Smith against Indiana in 1978. 
''I've had games where I felt better, but I just wanted to keep plugging away," Burke said. "I just didn't want to do anything that could lose the game." 
Burress, who broke the school mark of 252 receiving yards by Andre Rison in the 1989 Gator Bowl against Georgia, wasn't about to let that happen. 
"My motto is 'Stay Dangerous.' I've got a new attitude," Burress said. "If I drop a pass, I just tell myself that the defense has to respect me, because they know I'll catch the next one." 
The Spartans also won the battle of the trenches. 
Michigan State, which had not allowed a rushing touch­down, went into the game 
allowing an average of just 
42.8 yards a game on the ground. The Wolverines learned why, finishing with just six yards on 21 rushing attempts. 
Michigan, which has a bye this week, got school-record 396 of its 402 yards through the air, most of it on the arm of Tom Brady during a furi­ous fourth-quarter comeback that came up short. The Spartans had 90 yards rush­ing. 
"If this isn't the most disap­pointing loss, it's right up there," Michigan nose guard Rob Renes said. "I have to live with this the rest of my life." 
Drew Henson, who played the second and third quarters for Michigan, completed 6 of 12 passes for 111 yards, including an 81-yard TD bomb to Marcus Knight. But he also was picked off by Arie Morris, setting up the touch­down that put Michigan State ahead 27-10. 
Brady did his best to bring the Wolverines back with three touchdowns in the fourth quarter. but he just ran out of time. 
"We set our goals high," Brady said. "We just ran into a very good Michigan State team." 
This is the first time the 
Spartans have been 6-0 since 
1966. They finished that year 
9-0-1 after the 10-10 tie with 
Notre Dame in tho final game 
of the season. Those Spartans 
also won the Big Ten champi· 
onship and the national 
championship. 
Saban would settle l'or that in a heartbeat. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. t0 3 f.m. at rhc Norre Dame otTicc, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaiJ. 
The charge is 3 cents per charaner per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
HOUSE OF FRANCIS RELIGIOUS GOODS The largest selection of Icon's in the Midwest.Come and visit our out­standing selection! Call Fred@ 219-233-2523. Located across from Memorial Hospital, house behind Kagel's Flower Shop, 111 E. Navarre St. 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY 
www.CopyShopND.com Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm · Sun: Noon-Midnight 
LOST & FOUND 
Found: Pair of Earrings in Observer office. Call Laura at 1 -4541 
WANTED 
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to adopt. Will provide a lifetime of laughter,love,devotion and opportu­nities. 800-484-4699 code 0019 
TO OUR 4 AM INQUIRER: ALL INFO KEPT IN TOTAL CONFI­DENCE. PLEASE CALL BACK ANYTIME. OUR PRAYERS ARE WITH YOU. 

Browse icpt.com for Springbreak "2000". ALL destinations offered.Trip Participants.Student Orgs & Campus Sales Reps want­ed. Fabulous parties.hotels & prices.Call Inter-Campus 800-327­6013 
Free One Bedroom Apartment in Historic Home 1.5 miles from Campus. A family with three children seeks fun,energetic,outstanding student or graduate to live in charming apartment for FREE in exchange for mutually agreed upon babysit­ting responsibilities that include some evenings,overnights,as well as trav­el.Send cover letter.resume and ref­erences to Nanny Search,P.O.Box 652,Notre Dame,IN 46556. 
Two ND junior women have College Park I lease for 2000-2001 and are seeking two apartment mates.For more information contact x0931 or x4071. 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Notre Dame, locted at 18680 Bulla Road.is looking for col• lege students to work part time or full time during Fall break week, 10/18-22/99. If you are interested in more information,please contact Thayer Kramer.Program Director.at 631-3344 for more information.A great way to earn extra money while playing with and assisting young children. 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-0658. 
HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ 232-2595 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80· $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit 11107, 1­800-41 B-9487. 
3,4 & 5 bdrm homes. Tall ceilings, wash/dry, walk to campus. call for 
more info. 289-4365 
5/6 BDRM HOMES."00-01YR 272­6551 
6BDRM$150 person.272-6306 
Sublet: Roomy one bedroom Campus View apartment: $385.00 monthly. Call Stacy at Campus View or John Hill at 683-5699 days; 616/782-3314. 
ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL 
WEEKENDS 2773097 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR 
NOW OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
2773097 

HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES 
DOMUS PROPERTIES HAVE 
AVAILABLE 5,6,7,8 & 10-BORM 
HOUSES FOR THE 
'00-01 SCHOOL YEAR. ONLY 15 
LEFT CALL 

274-1501 OR 234-2436, ASK FOR 
KRAMER FOR SHOWING. 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break SpecialslBahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel .com 1-800-678·6386 
FOR SALE 

N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 . G!2.5l3V'' 
FOR SALE 
'T,Sl

N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 
Phone Cards, 669 min/$20 243-9361 or 258-4805 
Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame.New.never used.still in plas­tic.$235 219-862-2082 
MAC 520 Powerbook-Y2K compli­ant-$350. Stylewriter printer $75. Both seldom used. 287-7928 
Computer parts. Computer service. 
Fast, friendly, cheap. 
220-7633 220-7734. 
www.247solution.com 
85 OLDS CUTLASS GOOD LOCAL TRANSPORTATION $750OBO 675-9735 
89 Plymouth, Sundance 
Milage 96 k, excelent 
conditions, $1650 or best 
offer. 277-3254 
TICKETS 

WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526 
SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­
ETS 
277-6619 
FOR SALE ASU tix. FACE VALUE AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
ND football tix for sale. AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 

I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.2726551 
BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT­BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048 
FOR SALE 

N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL271-9412 
SPRING BREAK 2000 "THE MILLENIUM" A NEW DECADE ... NCE IN TRAV­EL.FREE TRIPS.FREE MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS AND FREE MEALS! 1800-426-7710 WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM 
WANTED:USCTIX 247-1659 

For SALE 2 tixs all games 272­6306 USC GA Tickets For Sale (617)868­2071 
PERSONAL 
Quality Copies, Quickly! 
We're open early, late, & weekends. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
Quality Copies, Quickly' 
CHILD CARE OPENINGS IN MY HOME. 
NEAR ND. 
233-2704. 
Tim O'Neill is my hero. 
Booyal 
This one goes out to all the Golden Retrievers...! need your bios for the webpage by Thursday ... or else. 
To all those Red Sox fans out there ... keep rooting them on. 
John B., hope your movie turns out all right. 
John C., have you been putting on 
weight? Is that how you do it in 
Cali? 
Copes, that's a quarter. 
Badin Boots forever. 
Don't cry, Shannon. The Midwest 
rocks. 
Leau is my best friend. 
That's the sports, and I ..am... 
page 15

Monday, October I 1, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
MILLENNIAL SERIES  
DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  
BUILDING A CULTURE OF SOLIDARITY: CHALLENGES  
AND PROMISES OF ECCLESIA IN AMERICA  
A HEMISPHERIC CONSULTATION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 10 
7 PM MCKENNA HALL AUDITORIUM 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 11 
8 PM MCKENNA HALL AUDITORIUM RECEPTION TO FOLLOW 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12 
7:30 PM 

MCKENNA HALL AUDITORIUM RECEPTION TO FOLLOW 
MOST REV. ESTANISLAO ESTEBAN KARLIC 
ARCHBISHOP OF PARANA, ARGENTINA PRESIDENT OF THE EPISCOPAL CONFERENCE OF ARGENTINA 
"LA EXHORTACION APOSTOLICA ECCLESIA IN AMERICA CON MIRAS 
AL COMIENZO DEL TERCER MILENO" WITH SIMULTANEOUS TRANSLATION 
HIS EMINENCE FRANCIS CARDINAL GEORGE 
ARCHBISHOP OF CHICAGO 
PRINCIPAL CELEBRANT. 5 PM MASS, BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
KEYNOTE ADDRESS "BUILDING A CULTURE OF SOLIDARITY" 
REV. JON SOBRINO, S.J. 
UNIVERSIDAD CENTROAMERICANA 
"MARTYRDOM IN AMERICA" 
RESPONSES BY MOST REV. GREGORIO ROSA CHAVEZ, AUXILIARY BISHOP OF SAN SALVADOR ROBERT ELLSBERG, WRITER AND PUBLISHER 
ALL EVENTS ARE OPEi<! TO THE PUBLIC. 
FOR A FULL PROGRAM OF SPEAKERS, 
PLEASE CONTACT THE DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY. 

: ' 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 11, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Lone Star fans wait for next year 
Associated Press 

While New Yorkers dream of a Subway Series, fans in the Lone Star State can only lament of what might have been. 
Hopes for an 1-45 World Series or maybe a fourth Texas vs. New York champi­onship series this year were squashed over the weekend when the Houston Astros and Texas Rangers were eliminat­ed from the first round of the playoffs. 
In case you're counting, that makes them 0-for-ever in play­off series. 
Good karma was the best reason to think 1999 would be different. 
After all, the Dallas Stars won their first Stanley Cup, the 
• San Antonio Spurs won their first NBA title and the Houston Comets ruled the WNBA for the third time in the league's three years. And don't forget the individual achievements of Lance Armstrong and Michael Johnson. 
The Rangers roared into the postseason with 95 wins, their most ever, and one of the most potent offenses in baseball. 
They limped out by scoring a grand total of one run in three losses to the New York Yankees. 
Texas lost 3-0 in the finale Saturday night, extending the club's playoff losing streak to nine straight -all to the Yankees. Home fans have yet to see the Rangers win a post­season game in four tries. 
"There's no jinx," Rafael Palmeiro of the Rangers said. "We just didn't do it.'' 
Just getting to the playoffs was impressive enough consid­ering all the injuries and ill­ness the Astros endured along the way to their thi-rd straight NL Central title. 
After splitting two games in Atlanta, there was hope Friday lhat Houston would go up 2-1 in the best-of-5 series. 
But the Braves held off a bases-loaded, no-outs jam and won 5-3 in 12 innings, then won 7-5 Saturday in what Lurned out to be the final base­ball game in the Astrodome. 

The Astros will play out­doors, on grass at Enron Field next year. Maybe that will change their luck. 
"We're a winning team," first baseman Jeff Bagwell said. "We'll come through sooner.or later." · Even the biggest optimist in the Lone Star State knew the odds were heavily against an all-Texas World Series. 
But it would have been fit­ting for one of them to make the League Championship Series against either the New York's Mets or Yankees con­sidering the NHL, NBA and WNBA championships were fought between teams from Texas and New York. 
Alas, with no chance for Texas to win a fourth pro sports title, there's only one thing left for Texans to root for: a fourth finals loss by a New York team. 
LPGA 

Kim shoots record score to win Classic 
A•~ociated Press 

KUTZTOWN, Pa. 
Rookie Mi Hyun Kim fired a 2-under 70 and fought off three challengers Sunday to win the rain-delayed $725,000 LPGA First Union Betsy King Classic by one stroke. 
The 22-year-old Kim, who began the day tied with two others one stroke off the lead, finished with a 72-hole total of 8-under 280 and earned $108,750. She won the State Farm Hail Classic over Labor ,r;>ay Weekend for her first LPGA victory. 
Thfl start of the final round at the 6,075-yard Berklcigh Country Club course was delayed for four hours because of heavy rain, and the leaders played the last few holes in vir­tual darkness. 
Hall of Farner Beth Daniel, who began the day with a one­stroke lead at 7 under, shot a 72 and finished tied for with Jenny Lidback, who closed with a 69, and Helen Dobson, who had a 71. 
All three missed an opportu­nity to catch Kirn when she put her approach on No. 17 into a creek and took a drop for her only bogey of the back nine. 
Dobson hit the pin with her approach on the same hole but missed a 5-foot birdie putt. Lidback then misslld a 4-footer for birdie on the same hole and Danip,J was inches short on a 6­foot birdie putt on 18. 
The victory was worth $108.750 to Kim, a native of Seoul, South Korea, who said she knew that she was being seriously chalhmgcd on the back nine. 
After a bad drive on No. 1 led to a bog,~y. Kim birdied No. 2 with a 7-foot. putt. She took the lead for good with a birdie on No. 5 by putting her approach inches from the hole, and made the turn at 9 under after birdies with short putts on 7 and 9. 

I. 
I 
i 
! 
NBA 

Spurs defeat Sixers in preseason opener 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA 
Tim Duncan had 26 points and 10 rebounds and Samaki Walker added 23 points, including the game winning­basket, as the San Antonio Spurs defeated the Philadelphia 76ers 98-97 Sunday night in both team's preseason opener. 
In front of a boisterous crowd of 19,353 at the First Union Center, Duncan dominated in 25 minutes but sat out the entire fourth quarter. 
The Spurs· led 74-66 after three periods, but the 76ers, who trailed 81-72 early in the fourth, scored 14 unanswered points to take an 86-81 lead with 7:18 to go. 
The teams exchanged bas­kets, with neither team going ahead by more than three in the final seven minutes. Nazr Mohammed's hook shot gave Philadelphia a 97-96 lead with 
1:15 to go, but Walker followed with a turnaround jumper with 1 minute left to give the Spurs a one-point lead. A final des­peration heave by Doug Overton fell short at the buzzer. 
Duncan was 7-for-13 from the field and 12-for-15 from the foul line for the Spurs, who played without center David Robinson, listed as day-to-day with a stiff lower back. 
Larry Hughes had 19 points to pace the 76ers while Allen Iverson, who missed his first six shots, had 15 points on 5­for-17 shooting from the field. Aaron McKie added 11 points. 
Led by a group of mostly reserves, Philadelphia's 14-0 run came thanks to a full-court press defense and an up-tempo offense. Rookies Jumaine Jones and Todd MacCullough, play­ing his first minutes of the game, joined second-year play­er Hughes and veterans McKie and starter George Lynch as the 76ers grabbed an 86-81 lead, their first advantage since early in the first quarter. 

Are you considering theological edu_cation? Meet with an admissions representative from 
HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL . 


MONDAY, OCTOBER 12 10:00 A.M. -11:00 A.M. 328 DE BARTOLO HALL 
Learn about our graduate programs, including the-Master of' Divinity and the Master ofTheological Studies, and about related resources within Harvard University's other graduate, faculties and the nine-school Boston Theological Institute. ' 
ALL STUDENTS, ALL MAJORS AND Au. YEARS WELCOME 
For more information, contact the Office ofAdmissions and Finan~ial i\id at (617) 495-5796 or consult the Harvard Divinity School webwte at 
http.·l/'WWW.hds.harvard.edu 

GOT A WORD FOR OUR TASTY NEW CHICKEN CLUB SANDWICH: CRAVEABLE. 
(Ir's NOT A REAL WORD, BUT WE LIKE IT I) 

~THE TASTY CHICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
one bite of the delicious Chicken Club. and you'll always crave 11,e flavor of 11s all-white-meat chicken topped witt1 crispy bacon, fresh lettuce and tomato and mayonnaise. And that's no problem. because now this ultra-satisfying sandwich 1s here to stay a1 BURGER KING~ So come on m and indulge your craving 


The ~uddle -laFortune Student Center 
IT JUST TASTES BETTER~ 
-NWW burgcrk1ng com

PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 
Monday, October 11, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Mets, Braves prepare to face off 
Associated Pre•• 
NEW YORK 

IL remains to be seen if the New York Mets' bats and arms arl' rnady to meet Atlanta in the NL Championship Series. It's alrnadv clear tlrnir mouths am in top i'orrn. 
"l sen no rPason that w,i should IH!Vf\ any uffoction for tliem." Mots m:rnagnr Bobby Valnnlitw said Sunday. "We havp grnat respnct for thPm. I think we still have lo earn our rnspnct. They've shown us very little." 
N1\W York advanced to its first 
championship Sf\ri,~s in I l ynars by boating Arizona 4-3 in IO innings Saturday, winning tlw lwst-of-5 lirsl-round series in four gamns. 
.lust ni1w days oarlinr. aftnr going 5-I against New York over the final two weeks, the Braves dnclarnd Lim Mets fin­islwd. two games out of the wild-card !fiad with three lo 1>lay. 
"This is Urn mixt-bcst thing to winning the World Scrios," said BrnVf)S third baseman Chipper .Jones, annoyed hy taunts from tlw Sirna Stadium fans. "I told thorn lo go home and put their Yankees' stuff on." 
That rmnark has stuck in the minds of' many Mnts players and fans. 
"It was a pretty maturn stato­nrnnl," Valentine said sarcasti­cally, "and an incorrnct one ­WH'rn not dead yet. I don't think it was lack of' understanding. I think he was very conlident he wasn't going to have to deal with them again this year. Cucss what'' lle's going to have to deal with them this year." 
Atlanta went 9-3 against New York for the second straight season. The Braves swept three games from the Mets on the final weekend of '98 to keep them out of the playoffs. and nearly knocked them out again by sweeping three in Atlanta and winning two of' three in New York. 
Jones was Lhc biggest neme­sis, hitting .400 with seven homers and 16 IlBls ill 39 at­bats. In the three-game sweep at Turner Pield from Sept. 21­2:1, lrn was 4-for-9 with four homP-rs and seven HBls. 
"I don't think he's going to be as magical ever again as he was in that on,~ seric;\'J" Valentine said Oil a coufcrence call Sunday after leaving Mass. ''! don't think anyone could bo." 
It's not just Jones who annoys the Mets. It's pretty much the entirn Bravos team. 
"There's been a lol of com­ments, subtll~." Val(mtine said. "If the comments and actions they've made over the years were in New York. as a New York team. they'd be well known and documented, but a lot of them ..have slipped by some people. 
He was asked to elaborate with two specifics. 
"I don't see it to be neces­sary," he said. "We know ii and those who have been watching know it. We'll just go on to earn our respect." 
New York hit just .224 against Atlanta this year, with Hobin Ventura batting .140, Edgardo Alfonzo .159, Mike Piazza .211 and John Olerud .229. 
Against Game 1 starter Greg Maddux, Olerud is 3-l'or-17 (.176) in his career and Ventura is 1-for-10. But Alfonzo is 8-for-23 (.348) and Piazza I l•for-36 (.306) with two homers. 
"We're due for good things to happen against this club, and I think they know it," Valentine said. 
Ile wouldn't reveal his rota­ti on, but it seems certain Masato Yoshii (12-8) will start against Maddux (l 9-9i in Tuesday's series opener at Turner Field. 
Valentine hinted he's thinking of moving up Al Leiter to Game 3 and dropping back Kenny Hogers. Hick Heed could wind up pitching Game 2 or Game 4. 
"The real decision in Game 3," Valentine said. "Al would be on his regular rest. If we could have Al for 3 and 7 on regular rest, then that's something maybe we want to do. But I want to talk to everyone about that." 
There was no big news on the status of Piazza's swollen lef't thumb, an injury that caused him to miss Games 3 and 4 against Arizona. Piazza's replacement, Todd Pratt, hit the game-winning homer in the 10th Saturday. 
While the clubhouse at Shea Stadium was empty as rain swamped the field Sunday, Mets trainer Fred Hina visited Piazza at the catcher's home, Mets spokesman Jay Horwitz said. 
If Piazza's health is question­able, the Mets might activate Mike Kinkade, according to general manager Steve Phillips. 
Have you heard? The Career Resource Center located in Room 
114 -Flanner Hall, has evening hours Monday thru Wednesday from 5:00 -8:00 p.m. 

Yeah, I'm making my way to the Career Center after classes. You know, they have staff available to view your resume and answer quick questions. There's even a computer lab to log on to Go IRISH. And don't forget the great books and resource materials. Looks like the Career Center's the place to be. 
. I 

NHL 
Canucks top early season surprise list 
Associated Press 
The Vancouver Canucks are playing like they're trying to make up for the last few years. Same for the San Jose Sharks and Florida Panthers. 
Topped by the Canucks' 3-0 record, those three are among the team surprises after the first week of the NHL season. 
"It's time to get a litt.le bit excited," coach Mark Crawford said after Vancouver's 4-1 win over Montreal on Saturday night gave the Canucks their best start since 1992. 
"We're not going to get car­ried away with ourselves. We know wA've got a long way to go. But right now, the confi­dence can keep building for us if we continue to adhere to what we're doing." 
The Canucks have reason to feel good about themselves these days. They've missed the playoffs for three straight years and have been at the bottom of the Western Conference two seasons in a row. 
Their 3-0 start is one win short of their best in franchise history. The Canucks' three­game winning streak is also their longest since February 1998. 
"It's only three games in, but we've been playing really hard. We've bought into a system and we've got to keep on riding it," Todd Bertuzzi said. 
The Sharks and Panthers both feel pretty good, too, after strong starts. 
The Sharks began the sea­
son with three straight victo­ries for the first time in their history before losing :{-2 to defending Stanley Cup cham­pion Dallas on Saturday night. The Panthers are 2-0-1 after Saturday night's 2-2 tie with the Detroit Red Wings. 
The Sharks, who finished seventh in the Western Conference last year, have never had a winning season in their eight years in the NIIL. The Panthers, Stanley Cup finalists in llJ<J6, have missed the playoffs for two straight seasons. 
Saturday night's perfor­mance was a gutsy effort by the Panthers, who rallied from a 2-0 deficit to tie one of the NIIL's tougher teams. 
"Getting down 2-0 to one of the premier teams in the league and certainly one of the best defensive teams, I'm very happy Lo come back and tie this thing," Panthers coach Terry Murray said. 
The Los Angeles Kings are another team trying to forget the past, and doing a pretty good job of it. They're at 3-1 • 1 in the midst of a seven­game road trip to start the season, including a 2-2 tie Saturday night at Washington. 
The Kings missed the play­offs last season for the fifth time in six years, including last year when they went 32­45-5. 
"We talked about calling this a good trip if we won tonight," said Kings coach Andy Murray. "Now it goes a step below a great trip but a few steps above a good trip." 

Specializing in great haircuts, expert color & highlighting 
Student discounts available Thurs.-Sun. with Jill Kuhoric 
Located near campus at 1707 South Bend Ave. Walk-in's welcome 277-1875 
Qu1cK CAB 
233-6000 
-ND to Michiana Regional 
Airport One Person $8 More than 1 , $5 each 
-ND to Entertainment Area One Person $5 More than 1 , $2 each 
-Waiting Time 10-5 Minutes 
We Appreciate Your Business! 
r------------------,
! $1.000FF : 
l EACH TRIP : 
I I 
: RUJCKCA.B: 
I~ I 
l 233-6000 :
L------------------J
r------------------,
! $1.000FF
! EACH TRIP 
!QUICK CAB 
: I 233-6000
L------------------J 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 11, 1999 
NFL 

Rams beat 49ers to stay unbeaten 
Associated Press 

With nine straight losing sea­sons, the St. Louis Rams have the longest streak of' !'utility in the NFL. Now they have anoth­er distinction: the· league's only undefeated team. 
Kurt Warner threw five touchdown passes, including four to Isaac Bruce, as the Rams beat San Francisco 42-20 on Sunday to break a 17 -game losing streak against the 49ers and improve to 4-0. 
New England and Dallas got their first losses Sunday, leav­ing the Rams alone with a spot­less record. It's been an amaz­ing turnaround for a team that hasn't reached the playoffs since 1989 and lost starting quarterback Trent Green with a prcscason knee injury. 
Warner, a former Arena League quarterback, threw TD passes of 13, 5, 45 and 42 yards to Bruce. He also found Jeff Robinson for a 22-yard score. 
Warner, who leads lhe NFL with 14 TD passes, completed 20 of 23 passes for 323 yards. Bruce had five receptions for 134 yards. 
San Francisco quarterback Jeff Garcia, making his second straight start in place of ailing Steve Young, was 22-of-36 for 233 yards but was intercepted on the 49ers' last three posses­sions. 
Eagles 13, Cowboys 10 

At Philadelphia, Doug Pederson threw a 28-yard TD pass to Charles Johnson as the 
Eagles (1-4) overcame a 10­point deficit against the Cowboys (3-J) in the fourth quarter. 
Dallas receiver Michael Irvin was taken off the field on a stretcher in the first quarter after getting tackled and hitting his head on the artificial turf. Tests showed swelling in Irvin's spinal cord and a herniated disc, but he had movement in his hands and feet. 
Chiefs 16, Patriots 14 
At Kansas City, Adam Vinatieri missed a 32-yard field goal attempt in the closing sec­onds that would have won the game for New England. The ball hit the right upright and bounced backward. 
Drew Bledsoe's 27-yard com­pletion to Shawn Jefferson set up the field goal try by Vinatieri. who had already booted three game-winning field goals this season for the Patriots (4-1). Elvis Grbac engi­neered three second-half scor­ing drives for the Chiefs (3-2). 
Bears 24, Vikings 22 
At Minneapolis, Chicago (3-2) forced five turnovers and turned three of them into touchdowns to beat Minnesota (2-3). 
Vikings rookie tight end Jim Kleinsasser fumbled twice, and Bears linebacker Sean Harris recovered one in the end zone for a touchdown. Barry Minter intercepted Randall Cunningham's tipped pass at the Bears 18 with three minutes left to preserve the victory. 

Bengals 18, Browns 17 
At Cleveland. Akili Smith threw a 2-yard TD pass to Carl Pickens with 5 seconds left to lift Cincinnati (1-4) over the Browns (0-5). 
In his first NFL start, Smith completed 25 of 41 passes for 221 yards and two touchdown with no interceptions. Cleveland rookie Tim Couch was 15-of-22 for 164 yards with one inter­ception. 
Bills 24, Steelers 21 
At Orchard Park, N.Y.. Doug Plutie threw three TD passes and Eric Moulds had six catches for 122 vards and a score to lead B·uffalo (4-1) over Pittsburgh (2-3). 
Flutie completed 11 of his first 12 passes and finished 21­for-32 for 261 yards. 
Chargers 20, Lions 10 
At Pontiac, Mich., Darryl! Lewis returned a fumble 42 yards in the fourth quarter and San Diego (3-1) shut out Detroit (2-2} in the second half. 
Lions coach Bobby Ross faced his old team for the first time since being forced out by the Chargers three years ago. 
Falcons 20, Saints 17 
Morten Andersen, who had missed four of six field-goal attempts going into the game, connected twice in the fourth quarter as Atlanta rallied to win its first game of the year. 
NBA 

Sprewell owns up to In1ss1ng practices 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Latrell Sprewell finally offered a feeble explanation Sunday for missing the first week of training camp, and the New York Knicks decided to bench him for their first exhibition game. 
"Without any practice time, he's just not going to be ready to play," said coach Jeff Van Gundy, who met with Sprewell and general manager Scott Layden for 45 minutes Sunday morning at the team's practice fJ1cility. 
Sprewell said he had simply ignored the Knicks' phone n1essages as he drove across the country. doing a 36-hour stretch solo from Oakland to Milwaukee, arriving before dawn Wednesdav, and then continuing on to New York on Thursday with his brother and a friend. 
Sprewell nonchalantly explained that he drove instead of taking a flight because he wanted to pick up some things in Milwaukee and he wanted to be sure that his car, a Mercedes-Benz sedan, made it to New York. 
"That's just me. I like doing things myself," he said. "I wasn't trying to send a mes­sage." 
As for ignoring calls from the Knicks, who were wondering what he was doing, he said, "That's what agents are for.'" Yet Sprewell admitted that he did not keep in close contact with his agent, Hobert Gist. 
Van Gundy and Layden refused to divulge many details of the meeting. but they did disclose that the team had fined Sprewell "an appropriate and significant" amount for failing to join the team for training camp in Charleston, 
S.C. If they fine him for all tho practices he missed, it would total $40,000. 
The rest of the Knicks had the day off Sunday. Sprewell will join them for his first practice -it will be the team's 10th -on Monday at Madison Square Garden before the team holds a public scrim­mage. Sprewell will not play in the exhibition opener Tuesday night in Uniondale, N.Y., against the Philadelphia 76ers, but he is not officially suspend• ed. 
"I don't know how our team is going to react." Van Gundy said. "I think Latrell most like­ly will need to address the sit­uation to his teammates, and how the team from the inside handles it will be between them." 
Sprewell said his lateness had nothing to do with his con­tract situation. Entering the final year of a four-year deal that will pay him $9 million this season, Sprewell is eligible to sign an extension during the season. 

COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATIOl'if CARDINAL 0 1HARA LECTURE SERIES ON BUSINESS ETHICS 
GEORGE A. FRANKLIN 
VICE-PRESIDENT OF WORLD WIDE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS FOR THE KELOGG COMPANY 

JoRDAN A.uot'ToRitJM, CoLtEctE ot BuSiNESsAoMINISTRATION SPONSORED BY:~; 

notre Dame Center for Ethics and ReligiousValues in Business 


, , . 

Monday, October 11, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Indians suffer Boston Massacre 
Associate.I Pre.ss 
BOSTON 

No, llwy didn'l clrnngo uni­forms. i\nd no. that wasn ·1. Manny Hamirnz driving in all Utos<i rum,. 
Thal rnally was the Bed Sox sdling major-league postsea­son records with 2] runs and 24 hits against basoball's high­est scoring tnam sincti 1950. tlrn Cl1!vnland Indians. 
And the sevon Irnls'? Boston's Jolrn Valnnti11 gol llwsn, not Humin•z, wlws1\ ·1 (,!'i II Bis wem tlw most in tlrn majors since I1J:{8. Val1mti11 did il with lwo honwrs, a cloublP and a single. all in l.lw lirsl four innings. 
II!> had plm1ly of' comp,wy as Boston pound<id fivH Clc>vnland pitclwrs in a 23-i win Sunday: Trot Nixon and .losP Offerman nach drovn in five runs, Jason VmitPk wmll 4-for-:i with thrnn II fl ls and a postscason rncord l'ivi· runs, and \!like> Stanley Wl\lll 5-for-h, 
Thi~ Hed Sox hope tlwy hav,~ 1ino11gh strcnglh lcf'l lo swing tlw bats somn morn in Monday night's dPcisivn !1f'l11 ganw in C11•vnla11d. 
At !Past Llwy gol thorn -on a day in which thny outscornd 19 NFL tm11ns. 
A clay 1iarlier, that seemed I about us unlikdy as Valnnlin getting a hit.
I 
Thev tolaled three runs and 11 hits in losing the first two games at Cleveland, and he was O-f'or-10 going into the bottom of the sixlh of Game 3 with tho score at 2. 
Then rwerything changed. 
VaJenLin's solo homer put the lfod Sox ahead, hut the third baseman's second costly throw­ing nrror of the series allowed Cliweland to tie the game in the seventh Saturday. 
No problem. 
Valf'ntin r.ame up again in the bottom of the seventh and brokn the tie with a two-run douhlc. That started a six-run inniug that gave the Red Sox a lJ-:{ win. 
And on Sunday, he and the Hnd Sox earrwd several lines in next year's postseason recm,d book. 
Tim previous record for most runs in a posiscason game was 18 bv Urn New York Yankees in an 18-4 win over the New York Giants in tho 1936 World Snries. The previous record for most hiL'i in a postseason game was 22 by Atlanta against St. L11uis in Game 7 of the 1996 NL Championship Series. 
Valentin's seven RBIs tied the division series record held by former teammate Mo Vaughn, wlrn did it in last year's opener at Clr,veland. and Seattle's Edgar Martinez. 
His 11 total bases broke the division series record of 10 shared by Vaughn and Eric Karros of Los Angeles. 
Valentin accomplished some­thing that may be more amaz­ing. He came to bat in oach of the last three innings Saturday and each of the first four Sunday. In those seven straight apµearanccs, he homered, dou­bled, lined out to right, home­red again, singled, homered yet again and doubled. 
That added up to four runs and 10 RBIs in a span of just seven innings. 
Prntty good for a player who hit just .253 with 12 homers and wasn't assured of a spot on the postseason roster until he returned from Lhe disabled list on,Sep\.,23. He went on it Aug. 31 with tendinitis in his left knee. 
Bookie Wilton Veras played well in his place. But Valentin assured his playoff spot by end­ing the snason with a live-game hitting slreak and staying healthy. 
He finally was stopped Sunday when he struck out ­swinging. of course -against Scan DcPau!a in the sixth. 
Valentin was due up in the seventh, but with the score 21­6, manager Jimy Williams sent up Donnie Sadler to pinch hit. 
l\aturally, Sadler doubled. 
page 19 

Heart condition fails to end Wood's plans 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Kerry Wood plans to pitch for the Chicago Cubs next season despite a dime-size hole in his heart. 
The 22-year-old right-hander has atrial septa! defect. which can cause a gradual weakening of the heart.. The condition prob­ably won't affect his career. but doctors said that it should be corrected. 
Cubs spokeswoman Sharon Panozzo said the team had no comment and g1meral manager Ed Lynch did not return phone calls !ell at his home Sunday. 
Wood learned he had the con­dition when he became ill in February, just before spring training. Doctors at a hospital in Mesa, Ariz., discovered the hole in the wall separating the two upper chambers of his heart. 
Doctors recommend the hole be closed at some point and Wood's doctors told him it would have to be fixed by the time he was 30 or 40, he told the Chicago Tribune. Left untreated, it can cut life expectancy to 40 years, doctors said. 
Wood, the 1998 NL rookie of lhe year who missed the mitin! season after blowing out his right elbow in March. decided against having the surgery immediately. 
ASD is "a very low-risk thing to fix" surgically, and Wood probably can wait io huve surgery, said Dr. Keith Horvath, assistant professor of cardiotho­racic surgery at Northwestern University Medical School. 
"This is not a Hank Gathers or Heggie Lewis (situation)." Horvath said, referring to two athletes who died unexpectedly of heart ailments at young ages. 
Wood, who tied a major league record with 20 strikeouts in a game in 1998 while going 13-6, said he will havn an echocardiogram, an ultrasound of the heart, every year. In the meantime, he said he plans on coming back strong. 
"What's going to drive me the most is all the people who am saying I'm not going to be the same, I'm not going to come back," he said. 
Cardiologists call the condition a "silent killer" because it alTects a person over a long period. But they said there is no danger of Wood collapsing while pitching, even if the hole goes unfixed. 

r) 
--i r 

~Ji'
-----'· 


-1 Opportunities are available for exceptional students with the following majors: 

...
Where it matters most. ~ 
• Aeronautical Engineering • Computer Science • Management
As one of the world's leading diversified technology companies, we're aking new ground in everything from defense and commercial electronics, to aviation, to 
• 
Chemical Engineering • Electrical Engineering • Marketing/Communications engineering and construction. As a Raytheon employee, you'll contribute to the 

• 
Civil Engineering and • Finance/Accounting • Math development of exciting, revolutionary technology designed to make life better, easier, 


Construction Management • Human Resources • Mechanical Engineering 
and safer throughout the world. Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our 
• Computer Engineering • Industrial and Labor Relations • Physics 
award-winning NightSight™ technology. 
Check out our Website at www.rayjobs.com/campus for further information 
including a calendar of recruiting events.. At Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for adiverse workforce by return, we offer exceptional training and professional development opportunities. A supportive, 
But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge. And enthusiasm about the future. In 
attracting, retaining, and recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people, down-to-earth work environment. And incredible benefits including flexible schedules designed to respect your quality of life, 
So you can still show offall those grear qualities ofyours outside of work, too. 
We' II be visiting your campus soon -contact your career placement office to schedule an interview. If you are unable to meet with us, please e-mail your resume to· resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no attachments). or mail to: Raytheon 

• 

Company, Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. U.S citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
Bringing technology to the edge 
Raytheon 
, I 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 11 , 1999 
BOXING 

McGregor def eats Chow in landmark boxing victory 
ring as if he were looking for the fans appreciated that -at bouncing around with a strange Chow leaped at her and got a
Associated Press 

an exit. He didn't fight so much first. smile as McGregor tapped him second warning for a low blow. 
SEATTLE 
Margaret McGregor and Loi Chow made pugilistic history and proved that a woman who can box a little can beat a man who can't box at all. 
McGregor won all four rounds on all three judges' cards Saturday night, then left it to others to assess whether her waltz in the ring with Chow will be remembered as a land­mark in sports, a stride for women or yet another punch in the nose for boxing. 
If boxing can survive Mike Tyson biting a chunk off Evander Holyfield's ear, it can probably survive this whimsical promotion between a 36-year­
old female landscaper and a 33-year-old male jockey, who earned $1,500 apiece in box­ing's first sanctioned battle of' the sexes. 
"The weight of the world was on my shoulders," said the 129­pound McGregor. "I hope I've done good for boxing." 
Asked what she thinks she proved, she responded: "Just that I'm a winner." 
Chow, who weighed 128 and wore a welt on his forehead, answered the same question with a cryptic smile and a hol­low boast, saying, "It proves a woman cannot hurt a man." 
McGregor certainly showed she had Lhe moxie to stand up to a man. even with a dozen television cameras and reporters from around the world recording every move. She flicked light jabs, landed a few combinations to the head and body, slipped or blocked punches nicely, and generally comported herself in a manner befitting a middle-aged fighter with a 4-0 record. In other words, she didn't stink up the joint. 
Chow. on the other hand, did. 
The jumpy little jockey -he's listed as 5-foot-2 but barely came up to the 5-4 McGregor's chin -bounced around the as cover up. The few looping punches he threw seemed designed for effect rather than damage, as if he had learned his new trade by watching old Westerns. 
When the judges' cards were announced -each scored it 40-36 for McGregor -and Chow fled with a final wave, the crowd showered him with boos. 
Chow had an excuse, though: His blood pressure had zoomed to 185 over 115 a few hours before the bout. 
"l didn'L feel right," Chow said. 
"He looked scared out of his wits," said Bob Jarvis, a former fighter who worked with the promoters and also managed the night's main-event winner, lightweight Martin O'Malley 
(11-0). 
Chow (0-3) insisted he wasn't afraid. Anxious, perhaps. Overwhelmed by the occasion. probably. Whatever it was, he said he took some medicine to bring down his blood pressure, relaxed a bit, and passed the doctor's second test. When Chow entered the ring, he held his red gloves high and contort­ed his face in the fiercest expression he could summon ­a cross between a grimace and a frown. It was as bad as he would get all night. 
The sellout crowd of 2,768 at 
Mercer Arena, which paid 
$75,705 for the second largest 
boxing gross in Northwest his­
tory, cheered Chow, from near­
by Vancouver, British 
Columbia, with a blend of 
respect and pity. Here, they all 
knew, was a man who couldn't 
win even if he won. If he 
defeated McGregor, he would 
be taunted as a woman beater. 
If he lost, he would be ridiculed 
as a wimp. As Chow, himself, 
described it, he was in a "lose­
lose situation." 
Still, he showed courage just 
by climbing into the ring, and 


Despite all the hype that went into this bout, when the bell rang to start the first of the two-minute rounds the combat­ants approached each other with little eagerness to engage in actual fisticuffs. They shad­owboxed for about a minute before Chow landed the first punch -a glancing right to the head -after McGregor missed with ajab. 
Chow seemed content with that because he spent the rest of the round covering up and with blows to the head. a cou­ple of combinations, and a decent right to the head at the bell. 
In the second round, McGregor landed a harmless flurry of rights to the head. Chow responded by holding her waist and swatting her on the back. She came back with a few body punches. In all, it was a desultory, uninspired exchange. 
McGregor picked it up in the third round, landing a left and right to the head at the start. 
Chow threw punches with all the deftness of a novice -his gloves making wide arcs before going in the direction he intended. In boxing parlance, it might be said he telegraphed his punches. In truth. they were more like smoke signals. 
McGregor blew them away and delivered a pair of upper­cuts. She stayed busy, working inside, throwing punches. Chow covered up, bobbed, and once in a while sent out more sig­nals. 


HOMES FOR RENT 
-Domus Propeties has two, five, six,and nine bedroom student housing available 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/200 I school year 
·: 
Contact Kramer (219) 274-150 I or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 234-2436 
on't Miss It! 
October 14, 1999 11 a.m. -3 p.m. 
1999 Midwest Association of Pre-Law Advisors (MAPLA) Caravan 
at  
The University of Notre Dame  
JACC-Concourse  
1 0  r -----------------------------------­BELOW ARE THE NAMES OF A FEW OF THE I I 100 LAW SCHOOLS SENDING REPRESENTATIVES I TO NOTRE DAME  I I I I I 

I I I
0 l Boston University I 
Duke University 
L 
I I Indiana Universities 
I 
Loyola Universities
I I New Yon< University
a I 
Ohio State Universityw I I Penn State-Dickinson 
I 
Saint Louis University

I I Syracuse Universitys Texas Wesleyan I Thomas M. Cooley
I
C I 
Univ. of Akron I Univ. of CA-Berekely
I I 
... I I 
Univ. of CA-Hastings 1 University of Chicago
C> I I 
University of Miami 

I
C> University of Pittsburgh 
1 
Univ. of Pennsylvania 

I
I I 
Univ. of Southern CA

I 
I Yale Law School
L_______________
s 

I I Chicago-Kent (IJT) I I
Haivard Law school 
I Lewis & Oark I I
Michigan State University 
I Northeastern University I I
Oklahoma City 
I Pepperdine University I 
I

St. Mary's University-TX 
I Temple University I 
I

Thomas Jefferson 
I 

Tulane Law School I 
I

Univ. of Buffalo 
I Univ. of CA-Davis 
1 
I

Univ. of CA-Los Angeles 
I Univ. of Connecticut 
I I

University of Kentucky I University of Texas-Austin 
I I

Valparaiszo University I I
Washington & Lee 
I 

Yeshiva University I 
______________________ J 
Monday, October 11, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

M. Soccer 
continued from page 24 
ond half helped us put them away," said Pridmore. "We came out and scored again before they could get back in tho game." 
Pridmore and Lyskawa teamed up again for tlrn goal. Lyskawa crossed the ball from the left r.orner of the field to Pridmore, who booted it past Glynn from five yards out. 
The Friars came alive mid­way through the second half and challenged the Irish lead. Putting more pressure on goal, the Friars peppered the goal with shots and retained control of the ball for several minutes. 
Short and the Irish defense put on another strong perfor­mance to fend off the Friar attack and secure the lead. 
One of the Friars' best chance::. at scoring came in the contest's 68th minute when Short was taken out of the play by diving to successfully block a shot on goal. The Friars attempted to capitalize on the rebound and looked to boot the ball into the empty net, but the Irish back!ield, led by McNew, stepped up and deflected three shots to preserve the shutout. 
f/reshman forward Erich Braun added a pair of goals less than one minute apart form each other to boost the Irish load and thwart any hopo for a Providence comeback. 
Hraun··s first goal came when he took the ball down the left sideline, dodging the f/riar defense to set up a one-on-one situation with Glynn. Striking from eight yards out, Braun sent his shot sailing into the net to up the Irish lead to 3-0. 
Braun teamed up with Junior midfielder Reggie McKnight just 53 seconds later for the team·s fourth and final score of the night. 
Braun's two goals mark his sixth and seventh scores of the season. Braun leads the Irish in goals and has tallied the most total points of all players with 16 on the season. 

Pridmore's second goal brings his total number of' goals to three on tlrn season. Pridmore trails Braun as tho team's second-leading goal scorer and joins a short list of Irish repeat-goal scorers. Braun, Pridmore and senior forward Ryan Cox are the only Irish players to score more than one goal this season. 
Irish freshman back-up goal­keeper Greg Tait saw his lirst action of the season late in the second half. Replacing Short, Tait showed he was not ner­vous by playing aggressively and defending the net well, coming up with a key save with just minutes left in the game to preserve the shutout. 
Notre Dame's 4-0 win over the Providence moves the squad to a 7 -4-1 overall and 3­1-1 conference record. The win is the fifth shutout of the season. 
The contest with the Friars marked the end of' a four-game homestand for the Irish, who made a clean sweep of the series. Notre Dame's four straight wins is the longest consecutive set of wins for the squad in two years. 
"We definitely have a lot of confidence in our game," said Pridmore. "We've finally been able t.o get a lot of goals hope­fully that will carry over into our next stretch of games, especially since we have sever­al Big East games coming up." 
Notre Dame hits the road on Tuesday when they take on Valpraiso with the aim of increasing its winning streak to live. 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 24 
. assured them of' hosting the 
!irst round of' the Big East tour­
nament. Getting a home playoff 
game is important to the Irish. 
"It's definitely important." 
Waldrum said. "We don't want 
to travel anymore than we 
have to. I think we really only 
have three or four home week­
ends so we want to be home as 
much as possible through the 
playoffs." 
The Irish improved to 11-2 
on the year with a 5-0 win over 
the Panthers on Sunday. Beene 
and Elizabeth Wagner com­
bined for the shutout for Notre 
Dame. 
Streiffer scored the first two 
goals of' the game for the Irish. 
Both of her goals came off 
head balls with two minutes 
Iler 58th and 59th goals of her 
career leave her just one goal 
shy of becoming the fourth 
player in NCM history to pick 
up 60 goals and 60 assists. 
..

I left added the third and firth 
Irish goals of tlrn night to give 
her 72 career goals, tying her 
with Monica Gerardo l'or the 
most goals in Irish history. 
Lancaster headnd her third 
goal of tho season into the not. 
in tlrn 7(Hh minutn. 
., 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 11, 1 999 
r 
' 
t 
I ,...,.
1 HOCKEY 
Inman's goal only bright spot in 5-1 loss to Wolverines 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sports Writer 

Last season, the Notre Damp­Michigan rivalry was as close as it gets. 
The season series ended up tied 1-1-1. and the two victo­ries were decided by one goal. This past weekend was anoth­er story. 
The Irish were outscored 11­4 during the two-game series at the Joyce Center. including a 6-1 defeat Friday night for their second straight loss. 
On Friday, Michigan scored in the same manner as it had before, early and often. They got on the board first on a brn,Lkaway by Scott Matzka. The right-winger picked up the Irish turnover in the neutral zone and took it all the way to the net to beat goalie Jeremiah Kimento 6:40 into the period. 
"They were very opportunis­tic," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "Our forward turned it over in the zone, and we stress that we cannot make turnovers within that zone. We want our defense to push the puck up. and therefore cannot have our forwards turn a puck over like that." 
The Irish had a chance to answer back less than 2 min­utes later. Two consecutive penalties by Wolverine left wing Mark Mink and defense­man Bob Gassoff gave the Irish a two-man advantage for 1:37. However the Irish managed only one shot. and then took a penalty of their own to negate the remaining time on their one-man advantage. Irish left wing Chad Chipchase did have a short-handed breakaway, but shot the puck wide. 
Michigan scored again at the 
16:07 mark of the first period, when last year's CCHA rookie of the year. center Mike Comrie, knocked in a loose puck from in front of the net. 
The Irish came out more aggressive in the second peri­od and made an effort to put the puck in the net at the start. The two teams traded penal­ties throughout the period, and while each had several near­misses from right in front of the net, neither team was able to ·score. 
Michigan scored 21 seconds into the third period, when center Mark Kosick skated straight to the net for the power-play goal. The Irish started the period a man down after Kimento was called for holding behind his own net at the end of the second period. Kirnento was then pulled for back-up goalie Tony Zasowski. 
The Irish answered back 18 seconds later.. Left wing David Inman took a pass from Irish captain Ben Simon and found the back of the net to put the Irish on the board. The assist by Simon was his 100th career point. The goal ended a 53­minute strPtch from Thursday night to Friday, whore the Wolverines held the Irish scoreless. 
Michigan was not done with its scoring. Comrie skated right through the Irish defense to score his second goal of the game. Then 23 sP.conds later, he added another goal for the hat trick and a 5-1 Michigan lead. Both goals were unassist­ed. 
"Comrie is a very goud play­er. but we made every player good tonight," said Poulin. "We had no hits and no challenges. We compote harder in practice than we do on the weekend. We play harder against our own teammates than wo do against other teams and I don't understand that." 
Mink closed out the scoring for Michigan with less than 2 minutes remaining in the game for the eventual 6-1 victory. The Wolverines out-shot the Irish 37-15 for the game, allowing only eight shots over the final two periods. The win improved '.'vlichigan's record to 2-0-0 on the season and CCHA while Notre Dame's dropped to 0-2-0 in both categories. 
"The game was very disap­pointing," said Poulin. "Everyone involved did not compete. this includes all play­ers and the coaching staff. I have seen our players compete individually and together and that was not happening tonight. 
"We did not pick it up and that is my responsibility. This was the most we've been out­shot, in any game I can even remember being involved in. We were not here offensively and if we have to take it back to being simple we will." 
The Irish will resume play this weekend when they travel to Denver for the Ice Breaker Tournament. Notre Dame will take on Providence on Friday and then Denver-Union on Saturday. 



MONDAYS 
10/25-12/6 
7 -8:1 Spl'W $25 
WEVNESVAYS 
10(27-12/8 12:10-12:50 
$20 

YOGA 

TUESDAYS 10(26-12(7 12:10-12:50 
$20 
TT!U'RSVAYS 10(28-12(9 5:20-6:30 $21 

TAI CllI 
WEVNESVAYS 'RfGIST'RA TION 10(27-12/8 FOR YOGA & 5:30-6:25 O'R 1AI CH.I 6:30-7:25 10/12, 7:30C{,t11.! $21 'RS'RC
Call 1-6100 with questions. 
R~3/~ 
Monday, October 11, 1999 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
The Observer . TODAY TOM KEELEY 

Fox TROT 
Tl·IINI< 'l"OlJ HAVE . MoM, I'M oN MY ENo\J&H Soolc:S WAY To SCHOOL, IN 1l1Ef<E? 
IO·H 
BILL AMEND 
CoRRECT10N: 1l-11NK You 
HAVE ENOu&H POKEMON C"RO'S IN THERE ? TIWTI-IFvLL.'(? 
page 23 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

Around the clock at Reckers. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
-

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Trot or canter 48 Catch phrase for the avid mallgoer 
31 Concert music 1 Where Picassos 57 Approvalsblasterhang in N.Y.C. 

58 Dinghy34 Childbirth5 Baby buggy propellers35 "Schindler's
9 Popular jeans 59 College in New 14 During Rochelle 
36 Asterisk 

60 Leader after 37 Advice for the Indian 
15 Four-star review 
16 Defendant's impulsive independenceexcuse consumer 61 Soothing agent 11 Honored lady 
40 Pianist Myra 62 Runs (for) 18 Portent 
41 Bruins' sch. 63 Carpenter's t 9 St. Kitts and device
42"--ho!" 

·--(Caribbean 64 Educator nation) 43 Surgery sites, for Horace 
short

20 Fashion slogan 65 Helper: Abbr. in the business 44 Son of Seth world 45 Food wrappers 
DOWN
23 Brooch and such on the street
24 What's left after 1 Anti-OW.I. group deductions 46Slump 2 Gen. Bradley 25 Palestinian chief 47 Response to a 3 One who gives Yasir bad call the silent 
treatment? 4 Summer quaffs 5 Loss's opposite 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Puzzle by BIil Ballard
6 --Navarro, 29 Cyndi Lauper's 45 Start to untie 51 Rich soil "--Just Want 
46--whale 
52 Kind of land to Have Fun" 47 "Don Juan" poet 53 Woman who can300n a deck, 

48ln-­
carry a tune perhaps (together)

31 No longer on 54 French kings 
49 Toe's opposite 
deck? 
55 Handy bills so Worker welfare 32 Purple shade org. 56 History33 Snoop 35 Kooky 36 It's for the birds 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 38 Mushrooms, e.g. are available by touch-tone phone: 39 State sch. in 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Athens Annual subscriptions are available for the 
44 C~db:~_ 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last co -50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS they blame you for everythil\g that 
DAY: Luke Perry, Daryl Hall, Jerome happened. 00 
Robbins, Joan Cusack VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You Happy Birthday: You've got it will not get along well with others 
together, and that's all that will be today. Your critical nature will take required in order to reach your goals over and you will say things that will this year. The ruthless manner in lead to isolation. It's best if you work which you execute your intentions by yourself. 0000 makes you a dynamite competitor. LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't 
You are disciplined, focused and not start disputes at work. If you disagree likely to let anyone stop you from with your boss, swallow it. YoC1r doing the tlungs you want to do. You rewards will come through family have no fear when ii comes to trying outings and pleasure trips. 000 new things. Your numbers: 15, 18, 22, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Jeal­
25, 38, 41 ousy will ruin an excellent love rela­
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You tionship. Don't jump to conclusions will get the support you need if you or point the finger at your mate with­help others with their problems or out having all the facts. Revenge difficult projects. Competitive sports won't resolve anything. 000 will be your forte. Ambition will carry SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you to the winner's circle. 000 Travel will lead to romance and 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your adventure, but neither witl be exactly 
mate will overreact to your personal what you had in mind. Make sure 
situation. You will have to be more that you have all your papers in order 
affectionate if you wish to keep your before you leave the country. 000 
insecure lover happy. Compliments CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
will help considerably. 000 This is not the best day for you to sign 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll legal papers or get involved in joint find yourself in an awkward predica­financial ventures. Read between the ment if you haven't dealt with finan­lines. Short trips may be helpful to an cial issues. You will have to look into older member of your family. 0000 ways of rejuvenating yourself. You AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): need a little tender loving care. 000 Social activity will be entertaining. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll Satisfy your passionate mood. The be in a dangerously generous mood. contributions you make to organiza­Do not give to children, friends or rel­tions will enhance your reputation 
atives. l<eep your cash in the bank and earn you the help you need. 00 and don't let anyone with a sob story PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You talk you out of your hard-earned may be in the mood to travel and money. 00000 spend money, but you'll be sorry if 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be you do. It is best to put your cash your usual outgoing self. Don't step away for an emergency. Don't expect over the line by pushing less aggres­others to be looking out for your sive friends into doing things your interests. 00000 way. You'll pay the price later when 
Birthday Baby: You're a mover and a shaker from day one, so full of el\ergy that it's hard for anyone to keep up with you. You are secretive about your own whereabouts, but always well aware of where everyone else is and what they are doing. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 1999 Universal Press Syndicate 
• 

-~--------------------------~-~~-------------------~---------~-----------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
..... 

Name _______________________ 
Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

Irish falter on ice 
The Notre Dame hockey team Jailed to overcome the Michigan Wolverines on Friday, falling 6-1 in the
PORTS 
final match ofa two-game series. 
page 22 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Heft reaches milestone as Irish claim two wins 
In the second half, Notre
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Dame's offense opened up the 
A.«ociatt Sports Edicor 

scoring just 2:16 into the half. Anne Makinen took a pass from The Notre Dame women·s Ashley Dryer and Kara Brown soccer team captured the Big and blasted the ball toward the East Mid-Atlantic Division net from 22 yards away. The 
championship with a 5-1 victo­shot skimmed of Panther ry over division rival West defender and past the keeper Virginia on Friday night. for Makinen's seventh goal of
-the vear.
The Irish followed up the vic­tory over the Mountaineers The Irish attack struck again
with a 4-0 win over the in the 60th minute when juniorPittsburgh Panthers on Sunday forward Meotis Erikson pickedafternoon. up her eighth goal of the year Against the Mountaineers, when she shot the ball into the 
the Irish opened a 1-0 lead in uppM center of' the goal. Heft the 28th minute when Jenny picked up an assist on the play.Heft scored her 70th career West Virginia pulled within 
goal off of assists from Jenny two in the 63rd minute. Streiffer and Jen Grubb. Mountaineer senior Stacey"ll was a great ball from Sollman fired a free kick that Streiffer," Heft said. "I saw her deflected off a West Virginiastreaking down the field and I players and rolled across the was just making a crossing run. box. Freshman Katie Barnes She played a perfect through collected the ball and fired it ball and played it past the past an outstretched LaKeysiakeeper." Beene and into the net for her 
While the Irish went into half­11th goal of the year.time leading 1-0. they missed Irish defender Kelly Lindsey out on a few scoring opportuni­was not overly concerned with 
ties and allowed the the fluke Mountaineer goalMountaineers to slip through because it did not result from a the defense a few times. defensive break down. "I really wasn't too pleased "It just slipped through her with the first half because I legs and crossed across the box didn't think we were very without anyone noticing,"
sharp," Waldrum said. "I Lindsey said. "They just snuck thought defensively we were in on it." very lackadaisical. I didn't Senior Iris Lancaster scored 
think we were winning the her second goal of the year in 
head battles. But we turned the 89th minute and pushedthat all around in the second the Irish lead back to three, 4­half and I think we won 28 of 
1. 

the air battles in the second 
The win clinched the Mid­half and only lost one. So I felt Atlantic title for the Irish and much better in the second half." 
see W. SOCCER/page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Braun, Pridlllore lead Notre DaDle past Providence 
passed the ball from the mid­tie the game on a penalty kick
By KERRY SMITH 
field to the left corner to just minutes after Pridmore's 
Sports Writer 
LaRose. LaRose crossed the goal. Officials awarded Friar ball to Pridmore, who headed midfielder Michael Eisenhut a 
It took less than 4 minutes 
the ball past Friar goalkeeper direct shot on goal after he 
for the Notre Dame men's soc­
Danny Glynn for the score. was fouled by Irish defender cer team to get on the score­
"It felt really good to get the Matt McNew in the box. But board and put away Big· East 
first goal early on," said goalkeeper Gerick Short came rival Providence Saturday at Pridmore. "It helped to get a up big for the Irish, saving
• Alumni Field. 
good start to the game." Eisenhut's quick shot to the 
Junior midfielder Dustin 
The Irish retained offensive left corner to preserve the 
Pridmore scored his first of 
control for most of the first lead. 
two goals on the night just 
half, outshooting the Friars 9-The Irish were quick to 
3:32 into the contest to propel unable to strike as second
3, but were add to the half the Irish to a 4-0 routing of the 
the lead until the second half. began. Taking the Friar Friars. 
"Wo wanted to get the ball defense by surprise, tho Irish 
"Their defense was a little 
wide and behind their defense raced down the field on their shaky," said Pridmore. "We so we could create some scor­first possession and scored 
were able to exploit them and ing chances," said Pridmore. again to give the Irish a 2-0' get some good goals." 
"We were able to do that and edge.Midfielder Alan Lyskawa and were pretty successful in get­"The second goal in the sec-Connor LaRosc set up 
ting the ball in the goal." 

over the Friars.·  
SPORTS ATA  •  Golf at Xavier Invitational, Today, All Day  
GLANCE  f!J  Golf at Calvin College, Today, I p.m.  

Pridmore's goal when Lyskawa 
The Friars had a chance to see M. SOCCER/page 21 
r 
at Valparaiso, Volleyball • Cross Country ~ Tuesday, 5 p.m. vs. Albion College, at Central Collegiatcs, 
f!J 

Wednesday, 7 p.m. Friday, 4 p.m. 
vs. Calvin College, at Providence, vs. use,s~ Wednesday, 4 p.m. .~ Friday, 4:35 p.m. Saturday, I :30 p.m . 
,,,-i:-,, Y. 
t• 



MIKE HARRIS/The Observer 

Alex Altmann (12) battles for the ball in Saturday's Irish win 








