
And the envelope please... 
Analyze This 
Monday

¦ FinJ our who went home winners on I Iollywood's 
¦ Find om what our Scene critics have co say about 
higgesr night. Complete Oscar coverage inside. 
Robert dcNiro after they "analyze" his latest film. 
MARCH 22, 

News• 9 
Scene• 12 1999 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 108 WWW. N D.EDU/~OBSERVER 


History professor to receive 1999 Laetare Medal 
By MAUREEN SMITHE GIPason has br.!'ll a nrnmbnr of' tlrn teacher and a historian at Notrn Darm', as "Contending With Modnrnity: N,·ws Writn Notrr. Damn faculty since 1959. both of' which seem to be the normal Catholic llighcr Education in tlrn 20th "IGlnasonl set a work of a profes­Century," and "Conl1:mporary .I. Philip (;!Pason, prof"nssor nnrnrilus rigorous standard sor." Catholicism in the Unitnd Statns," or history al NotrP DamP, will soon bn of f'ailh-inspirnd In addition lo Gleason rnceived thn annual !'acuity
'THE LAETARE MEDAL HAS BEEN
houorncl among Urn Ii k,is of' l'rnsident scholarship," said his work at Notrn award in 1978. Nirrn yoars lal1n-, hn and 101111 F. KP1111Pdv. rwvnlisl Walknr l'nrcy Unlvnrsity WORN ONLY BY MEN AND Dame as chair­his wife Maurem1 wen'l givPn a joint and l111111anilarii'm SistPr llnkn l'rnjnan, l'rcsiclnnt Father WOMEN WHOSE GENIUS HAS ENABLED man of the history prnsiclcntial citation for thnir long years wht•n Ill' rc•r<'iVPS llw I<)1) 1) Lanlarci l\clward Malloy. department l'rom or sorvico. Gloason has rncnived tlwsn 
i\11·dal this VPar nl 1·om111n111·nrnl'nt. "I l n w O 11 till' ARTS AND SCIENCE, ILLUSTRATED THE 1971-1974, awards from Notro Damn due lo his TIH· aw1irrl is tlw most prPsligious acclaim of' histori-IDEALS OF THE CHURCH AND Gleason was a vis­"tenacious fidelity to the Church and Lo lwnor awardPd lo J\moriean Catholics ans throughout iting professor al tho Catholic intPllnctual lift'." a1~1·ording
1:uropn and th,, ENRICHED THE HERITAGE OF HlJMANI­
and is not trnditi1m,dly giv1•11 t1J a '-JotrP t Im Cat. ho I ic to Father Malloy. l>a11w J'andtv nH'mlwr. U.S. for his insights TY.' Univnrsity in 1982 "I take it as a recognition or my ruin 
'"Thi' l.aPian• \1Pdal has ht'Pn worn into tlw assimila-and spent two in the Notrn Danrn !"acuity. I am proud onlv !iv 1111'11 and wonwn whosn genius t.ion of rlivnrsn pc10-y1mrs as a chair of of it," Irn said, adding that lw also f"PPls ha~ l'll.ahl,·d tlw arts and scit'llCPS, illus­p l i's into a truly G/:'NERILI. Wl!DAM S'till?KE ROSECRANS the Catholic his grnalnst legacy whilP lwrl' at NotrP tra iPd th1• idl'a!s nr 1l11• Church a11d national communi-1896 MHJAI. REctPIHNT Commission on Dami' is his childrnn. "All four or my Pllrirlwd l11P lwritagP or humanity." said ty." Intellectual and children -two boys and two girls ­181H, 1\ll•dal wi1inPr (;l'lll'ral William "I was quite surprised -llabbergast-Cultural Affairs. ,'-;ta1·k1• llosP,T,UlS. 11d really," C!nason said. "I have lrnnn a Author ol' highly acclaimed books such 
see MEDAL/ page 4 
Embracing death 
can endanger 

individuality 
By ERIN PIROUTEK 

:--.!rw, Wrir~r 
It is important to ucknowlPdge but not embrace dPalh, said Gilbert MPilannder, chair of the Board of Christian Ethics at Valparaiso University. 
In his Friday lecture, "Death and Dignity," Mei!aender used spt>cific examples from hospice pbysidan Ira Hyock's hook "Dying Well" to illus­trate differing approaches to immanent death. 
First, he described Terry, a young mother of' thrtw who is strickrm wit.h cancer. Despite tho inlPnsn puin, shl' chose every life-prolonging option. I le tllf'n described Maureen, a retiree with many rhildrm1 and grandchildren, who faet~d death with ruriosity. anticipation and ov0n pleasure. 
MPil1w11dPr spoke with admiration of the young mother for twr reluctance to leav11. but felt there is a point wtrnrn one should cHaso oppusition to death. 
lie felt that Mattre1m's approach, however, was more dangnrnus. 
"Our present tnmptation is to welcome and embrace dPath and view it as a good which should hi• sought," Meilaendnr said. 
tvfoilamidN also notod that human beings arc not simply a part of nature. but mthN set apart. 
"Deuth blob out an utturly unique individual." stated l\foil1umrfor. "We will troat our own death and the dtlaths of others best if we acknowledge that death is an enemy that must be re:.istcd" 
MPilaPnrfor's lcrturn was the 11th in an annual snrios of J. Philip Clarke Family Lectures in Medical Ethics. sponsored by the Notre Oame Alumni Association Alumni f.onlinuing Education. 
It was also producl1d in conjunction with the 14th annual NotrP Dame Alumni Association sponsored mPclical ethics conference, attended by prominent physicians from around the world. 
Eight Notre Dame undergraduates, selected through nn application process, had the opportuni• ty to attnncl the three-day conferr,nce. 
Topics addressed included "Health Caro Reform and the Poor." "The Stem Cell Controversy," "Cybermodlcine" and "Dilemmas at the End of 
Lifo." 
Meilaender's public lecture provided the oppor0 



Court will help defend human rights 
By SHANNON GRADY 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Law School hosted a conference this week­end regarding what impact the lledgling International Criminal Court (ICC) will have on peace and human rights. 
Establislrnd on July 17, 1998, tlrn ICC marked a turning-point in the crusadr. for human rights and a giant step forward in the enforcement or international law. Thren years of discussion and a final grueling five-wenk negotiating session culminated in this agrr,emenl among the nations of tho world. 
The purpose of tho ICC is to providn justice for victims of crimes against humanity such as genoc.idn and serious war crimns. Other central goals are to punish tho instigators and implementers or such crimes, and through punishments, to detflr others from committing such atrocities. 
There was a general consensus among the scholars attnncling the conference that the ICC will be a valuable assnt in the fight for human rights in the 21st centu­ry. llowovnr, there arc conlro­vicirsies surrounding the ICC's statutes, and that is what schol­ars from all over the world gath­11red at Notrn Dame to discuss. 
One such question concerning crime and punishment was raised by Bill Schabas, a profes­sor al tlrn Univcrsite Du Quebnc and visiting fellow at the U.S. Institute of Peace .. 
"One would think that punish­ment is rnosl important in those situations, but in reality, the decision is," Schabas said. 
The ICC has excluded tlrn death penalty from its possible penal­ties since its inception. Thero is no minimum punishment and cases of life imprisonment are reviewed after 25 years and the violators may be set free. 
Those convicted of lighter sen-


tences have their cases reviewed after half of their sentence and may be released as well. 
To many, these punishments seem slight compared to the immense and irrevocable dam­age caused by the criminals. However, according to Schabas, the justice rendered by a deci­sion is vindication for the vic­tims, and punishment is sec­ondary. 
r 
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Monday, March 22, 1999 
..:__.;...___~----------·---·--­
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 


Snovvboard Experience 
Herc's a little poem about my last year's sum­

mer vacation. Enjoy!  
On the road, to the Mountain just wonder­ing. what will happen? Friendly Friend asked me to join her on !oration  C.R. "Teo" Teodoro lllumarions Editor  

Driving the car, to our little weekend vacation 
Getting ready to go. and got myself a board 
Staying for just two days. 'cuz that's all I can 
afford It was my first time. uh yes, a virgin of the slopes Feeling apprnhensive. with my friend showing me the ropes Life is short, I thought. I should see all the sights Then came the lift, and I remembered my fear of heights 
Now on the top, I take set lo slide 
Down's the only way to go, and there's no place to hide I set off, and lo and behold, I am flying! Of course that was for two seconds: Ow ... I am lying 
I try again, and again, and again, and again 
Again I try, and again I fall 
Numb with ice. I feel nothing at all 
Just lying in the snow, bruised, hurt, and defPated This is so difficult, 1had thought But little did I know she put me on intermedi­ate and advanced slopes 
Against which I had so desperately fought 
But then after forty falls, and the taste of snow in my mouth I can snowboard! Standing to the east and west. north and south 
I was stylin'. I was glidin' 
I was slidin', 1was ridin' 
Then came one run, a run that even haunts me today I was coming down as my friend got in my wav! Yes, she cut me off, and I had to stop immedi­ately But my stopping technique involved falling excessively 
Down I go, the board hits my head 
I twist my knee; I now want to lie in bed 
So there I rest in the snow, much longer than before My friend was watching, hoping I would get up for one more 
But down I stay, and there I lay 
Cold and hurt. and not wanting to stand 
Mv worried friend has come to lend me a hand After some help, and some time to cope I finally get up and make my way down the 
slope For the rest of the day, my knee was still hurting For I know what damage was done, so I was cursing 
But this memory is soon coming to an end 
For now I recall the next day on our vacation weekend At least five hours straight, and five hours long My friend goes boarding as though nothing went wrong I guess this is cool, and she should have her fun 
llitting the slopes, facing them one-on-one 
But there's only one thing as she was going on her run For the same five hours, I was stuck in the lodge just waiting for her to get done! 
The 11iews expressed ;n the Inside Column are those of lhe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ Torrnv's STAFF 
News Scene Finn Pressly Mike Vanegas Christopher Shipley Graphics Kate Steer Scou Hardy Sports 
Production Kaci Miller Kathleen Lopez Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Colleen Gaughen Mary Leffers 
rl1e (lbscrver (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday chrough Friday cxccp1 during c.·x,im .tnd v:1L;1.{ion pcriod!'I, The Observer i.\ :1 member of the A'isoi.::i,ued Pre.~,. All reproduction right,-: are rcllocrvcd. 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Sweatshop protest in President's office continues 
ANN AH.ROH. Mich. 
Discussions continued Thursday between University administrators and student activists who have occupied President Lee Bollinger's otlicc in the Fleming Administration Building since Wednesday morning. 
Members of Students Organizing for Labor and Er.onomic Equality said they will not vacate the office until adminis­trators meet their demands to have a strong set of labor standards for thr collegiate apparel industry. 
The studenls. encamped on the sec­ond floor, spent much of yesterday blocking doorways, keeping University administrators and other workers out of Bollinger's office. 
SOLE's bargaining team met with Bollinger, University General Counsel Marvin Krislov and Provost Nancy Cantor yesterday but did not come to an agreement, LSA senior Trevor Gardner said. 


"The policy statement the University released at the rngents' meeting does not represent an agreement between the students and President Bollinger," said SOLE member Peter Romer­Friedman, an LSA sophomore. 
"We're upset, however, we know that this code is the strongest in the nation and its existence is due soh>-ly to the efforts of' U of' M students," Gardner said. 
Members participating in the sit-in said they will remain in the president's office overnight. 
SOLE has called on the University for full public disclosure of factory loca­tions and ownership and the living wage -a salary factoring in local liv­ing conditions. 
The University agreed to full public disclosure in discussions with SOLE last week. The living wage remains the major point of contention in the University's discussions with SOLE. 
"I have already said I will not agree to a timetable or an abstract living wage," Bollinger said, adding that the administration will not take furtlrnr action on the issue for the time being. 
Bollinger said it is not wise for the University to sign on to the living wage when the concept hasn't been tested. 
¦ UiilVtRSlTY Of CALIFORNIA Regents adopt new admissions plan 
SAN FRANCISCO 
In the first tweak of the admissions process since ban­
ning affirmative action, UC regents voted yesterday to 
guarantee a UC spot to high school students who graduate 
in the top four percent of their class. With Governor Gray 
Davis in attendance, regents approved a plan designed to 
draw more students from diverse socioeconomic classes 
and broader geographic distribution to the UC system. By 
admitting students based on their merit, regardless of 
what resources their high schools offer, the four-percent 
plan "levels the playing field" for high school students, 
supporters said. "It rewards excellence. It says we under­
stand that some schools are better than others, but that 
it's not the students' fault," Davis said. "It doesn't matter 
what school you attend, it matters how you do." The four­
percent plan also allows UC to fulfill the state's Master 
Plan. 
¦ WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY 

Senate investigates partner benefits 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. 
The Wake Forest University Senate recently passed an 
unopposed recommendation for the university to investi­
gate offering domestic partner benefits. Carole Browne, a 
professor of biology and the chairwoman of the Fringe 
Benefits Committee, said the Senate supports the idea of 
domestic partner benefits but understands that the 
University must study the pros and cons of the situation. 
Perry Patterson. a professor of economics and the faculty 
sponsor for the Gay Straight Student Alliance, originally 
brought the proposal to the Fringe Benefits Committee last 
November. "I think it is very important because there are 
members of the campus community whose partners do not 
have health insurance," Patterson said. Patterson said he 
also thinks offering domestic partner benefits is important 
because "universities we look up to" increasingly arc offer­
ing them. 

¦ UNlVEHSilY OF MIAMI (OHIO) Professor defends right to wear thong 
OXFORD, Ohio 

Associate professor of music G. Hoger Davis wears a black beret and a leather jacket. He likes loud ties. And he likes to wear a thong at the recreational sports center. But Davis is suing Miami University with the contention that the rec's aquatic dress code policy, which now prohibits thong swimsuits, violates the Constitution and the laws of the United States. No trial date has been set, and Davis is suing for unspecified damages. Davis, who is a naturalist. or 'nudist,' said wearing a thong reflects the naturalist concept that the human body is not 'intrinsically lewd.· Therefore, he said he feels the· University is infringing upon his rights, based on the first amendment and free­dom of expression. He said he thinks his case is similar to cases in the '60s and '?Os when men went to court to defend their right to have long hair. "People have a right to decide how they look," Davis said. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA 
Police arrest employee for sex offense 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

Police on Thursday arrested a University of Florida employee on charges of failing to disclose his IIIV status to a sex partner, something he may have done in as many as 13 consensual sexual encounters. Dwayne William Cole, 26, tested lllV positive in August, 19%, but contin­ued to have sexual encounters, many of which were unprotected, a police investigation found. llis victim, an adult man, discovered Cole's IIIV status after he had both anal and oral sex with Cole, reports show. That is when the victim called police. According to UF's telephone directory, Cole works in the College of Health Prof'essions; but on a police report and in criminal records, he is listed as a student. Florida law states it is illegal for lllV-posi­tive people to not inform sexual partners of their condi­tion. Multiple violations of the law amount to a first­degree felony. 
¦ SOUTH BENO WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 

Accu Weather* r,1recast for i..laytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Monday  ~42 30  
Tuesday  u-45 29  
WednesdayQ 43 29 Thursday u 33 29 Friday u 41 27 



The AccuWeather<' forecast for noon, Monday, March 22. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
-,,,a,,. 

C 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressun: .,c, 
®C0 . CJ~DD . C,t 
~lgh Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny ~~lo~ Cloudy 
V,a Assoc,a/ec.' Pres:, 

Q_Q_~4Q.Qu ~u Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy C/oLJo:, Via Associa!ad Press Graph1csNet  Atlanta 62 Baltimore 49 Baton Rouge 75 Boston 48  41 3P 47 38  Columbus Dallas Denver Honolulu  42 70 67 80  30 48 32 71  Los Angeles 67 Miami 78 New York 46 Phoen1>( 88  52 62 41 54  
Chicago  43  30  Indianapolis  46  28  St. LOUIS  47  31  

t-.fonday, March 22, 1999 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3
--~-­


Economy upsets political balance 
By KRISTEN FITZPATRICK New, \Xirirn 
/\11 l'('OllOlllil'. crisis in V11111•zt1l'la lw).!inning in thn Parly I 'J80s eausPCI l>y tlw lark 01' f'l'Slltff('PS in llH• COl!llll'y in turn 1·ausPd a political crisis in th1· rPttlral gov1•rnmPnt. acn1rdi11g t.o Maria Pilar {;an:ia Cuadilla fr!llll Sin11i11 Bolivar UnivPrsity in V1·1wz111·la, who gavn a h•clttrl' WPdnnsday. 
:'\ 11 in r ri• as I'd r a 11 l'o r th n df't'Plltralization or govnrn­llll'lll.s. lo n•du1·p llw amount of ronl rol lwld by onn party and tlw i!HTf'aSf'd involVl'!lH'lll or t.lw IH'opk in tlwir gowrnnu•nl t'lll('l'g1•d rrum Llw politirnl ITi­sis. slw said. Tllf' uppPr and rnidd!P classes. whirh had puslwd for th is shin. an· now 
tlw l1~asl involvnd in th<' gov­
ernnwnt. 

"Our main concnrn is thf' suc­cnss of democracy, " said (;uadilla. "We are trying lo unclPrstancl why tlwy lVPrrnztrnlan citizens] would want lo change from u. ccntrnl­izt•d govPrnmnnt to a doccnlral­iz1id govnrnm<!llL Wn also want lo know why, af'lor lhoy rPt:nivPcl llw chang<\ llwy askPd 
l'or, they arnn 'L participating." 
Cuadilla has hoen studying lhn i11volvn111011t or tlw citiwns in !Im local gov11rnnrn11ts !'or thrP11 y11ars. Sim has spnnt time inlnrviPwing citizens from a mix,•d group of' classes in Caracas, tlrn capital, to undnr­sland why more p<'ople do not part.if'ipatH in tlrn governmPnt and to analyze whnthor thn dcrn11lraliz(1d govornmcnt is lwth•r !'or llw country. 
She said her research seeks to find ways to involve more pnople in tho local govnrnmnnt. to promote democracy and to dPddP if' tho current probloms of' Vonnzuela are duo to the shift from a centralized to a dPcnntraliznd governmPnt. 
Guadilla believns thorn is a risk in allowing local govnrn­nwnls to gain pow!'r, llowovcr, bncamrn of' the "acutn political crisis" and the privatizing ur Urn nconomv, a dc1:nntralized government may he thn bnst answer for tlw country, if more citizens bocomt! involved. 
Although there have b,~en attempts in Vcmnztwla to creatn dynastins of' local govlirnmnnt positions, Guadilla feels that thb problnm may bn solved if' more pnoplo arc inYolved in the dPmorratic procnss. 

An afternoon at the Grotto 
Circle K recognized for service projects 
Special to the Observer 
Tho Notre Dame chapter of the Circle K was awardnd fourteen out ol' a possible twenty awards at the rncnnt Indiana District convnnlion. 
Among tho awards was the Circle K Singlo Service Project Award, which rncogniznd Notrn Dame's La Casa dn /\rnistad project. !laving opniwd only a ynar ago, this newly introduced service pro­ject has served as a great suc­cess and example for our other projects. 
"I.a Casa de Amistad" means "tho house or f'rinndship" and is dedicated to serving the impoverished llispanic com­munity in South Bend. 
While Hispanics constitute only 15 porcont of' the popula­tion of' South Bend, around 40 
pnrcnnt aro urrnmploynd and still struggling to !Pitrn English and find jobs. Th11 Nolr1~ Danw Circle K is trying to givn tlw cnntnr's 40 to 50 childrnn a better opportunity to learn and nxcnl, so that tlwy will b1• succ1~ssf'11I in tho f'uturn. Sornn of the volu11t<1ers also lwlp tlw old<ir visitors l'ill out work applications and work on learning linglish, as WPII as work al the f'ood cPntnr dis­tributing f'ood to rnwdy rami­li(1s. 
I.a Casa dn /\mistad has also undl:rgono ronovations. enabling it Lo offpr computc•r job training programs. AA nwetings, Inga! lwlp, ES!. classns, and legal assistance•. /\long with painting and cfoan­ing supplins, Notrn llam1• Circh~ K donated around 150 hours during tlw rnnovalion. 
¦ SECURITY BEAT 
MON,, MARCH 15 
2:33 p.m. An O'Neill Hall resident reported the theft of his unlocked bike from the South Dining Hall. 3 p.m. Security apprehended a suspicious person Inside Sorin Hall. The man was identified, Issued a no trespass warning lettter. and escorted off campus. 
5:15 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of clothing from his vehicle while parked in the C1 parking lot. 
6:45 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident was Transported lo St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illness 
TUES., MARCH 16 
11 :50 a.m. Security responded to a two car accident on Douglas Rd. There were no injuries reported. 
4:37 p.m. A Keough Hall resident reported the theft of his jacket from an unlocked locker in the Rockne Memorial. 
5:55 p.m. Security transported a University employee to the University Health Center for treatment of a burn. 
WED., MARCH 17 
1:10 a.m. Security cited an off-campus student for exceeding the posted speed limit on Notre Dame Ave. 
1:46 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from Stanford Hall. 
4:00 p.m. A St. Edwards Hall resident reported the theft of his locked bike from a bike rack at St. Edwards Halt. 
11 :05 p.m. Security cited an off-campus student for disregarding an automatic stgnal on Juniper Rd. 

The Observer I Duffy Arnoull 
Students and visitors alike enjoy a sunny afternoon at the Grotto. Many visitors were on campus over the weekend in conjunction with the Sophmore Sibs events. 
S" Annual South TI end Cenler for Medical Educalion 
Minl-Mcdkal School Series 
Time: 7:00-9:00 p.m. 
Place:141 DcBartolo Hall (west ofs1adi11m) University of Notre Dame 
JoLn us for 6 informative evenings as leading doctors and university & medical school professors discuss the hottest topics in medicine today. Free of charge and open to the general public. 
St!<<fon I  Child Abuse Rick Hoover, M.D. Tuesday, March I6, 1999  
Session 2  Spirituality In Medicine Daniel Sulmnsy, 0.F.M., M.D., Ph.D. Tuesday, March 23, 1999  
Session 3  Hypertension Kenneth Olson, Ph.D. & Linda Hochstetler, M.D. Tuesday, March 30, 1999  
Session 4  Makin!! Health Care Retter: Medical, Ethical, Legal and Policy Persperlives Gary Fromm, M.D.. Kevin McDonnell, Ph.D .. John Robinson, Ph.D., J.D.; and Robert Beyer, F.A.C.H.E. Tuesday, April 6, 1999  
Session 5  Fitness [or the Ages Paul Macri, M.D. & David Yugo, M,S_ Tuesday, April 13, 1999  
Session 6  Recent.Advances in Dentistry David Hams, DDS, John Harrington, DMD, MSD., Ray Hazen, DDS, MSD, PC and Charles Hassel, DDS Tuesday, April 20, 1999  
To regisrer, call (219) 631-7177 For more informa1ion, call 631-5574  

~--------------------:----­
page 4 The Observer• NEWS Monday, March 22, 1999 


Medal 
continued from page l 
graduated from this school." 
The Laelarc Medal has been presented annually at com­mencement since 1883. Conceived by professor James Edwards as an American coun­terpart of the papal honor, the Golden Hose, the award met with imn11~diate approval by Father Edward Sorin, University president at the time, who recognized the need for such an award. 

Since that time, the recipient of the Laetare Medal has been chosen by a committee headed by the University's president. 
Thus far, 92 men and 29 women have been recipients of lhe Medal, which is inscribed with "Magna est veritas et brevalt>bit" -"Truth is mighty, and it shall prevail.., 


Kevorkian faces murder charges 
As.odate<l Press 

PONTIAC, Mich 
"You  killed  him,"  Mike  
Wallace  said  to  Dr.  Jack  
Kevorkian.  

"I did, but it's gonna be manslaughter, not murder," Kevorkian replied. "It's not necessarily murder. But it doesn't bother me what vou call it. I know what it is." • 
Now jurors will be asked to decide what it was. In a trial scheduled to start Monday, an Oaklancl County jury will debate wlwther the events on tlrn videotape that Kevorkian made and gave to CBS' "60 Minutes" equal a murder. 
It will be the first murder trial for the 70-year-old retired pathologist and assistt>d suicide advocate, who says he has been part of more than 130 deaths sinr,c 1990. lie has been tried on assisted suicide charges four times and escaped conviction each time, with three acquittals and one mistrial. 
But this time, the video and Kevorkian's interview with "60 Minutes." along with several other twists. presimt new chal­lenges and perhaps K{workian's mosl demanding trial so far. 
J\.11 th,i previous felony trials were on assisted suicide ch a rg1is, and Kevorkian's d(ifonse n•lied on evidence of pain and suffering by people who died with his help. This time, Lim judgP ruled such tes­timony was not relevant to a murr!(.ir rharge and could be pres1H1tcd only to defend against an assisted suicide charge. 
Prosecutors. who had initial­. ly l'.harged KPvorkian with both assisted suicid(; and murder. then dropped tho assisted stli­ci dc charge to keep out evi­drmcn that tlwy said could "dis­tract" jurors. 
Kevorkian is also charged with illegally ddivering a con­trolled substance -the firs~ time lhal charge has gone to trial. 
And for the first time, Im faces a .i\lry without lawyer (;eo!Trny FiegPr, who made his name in his boistnous but suc­c,\ssful dPfonse of the suicide advocate. This time, Fieger called the case part ol' Kevorkian's "self-destructive streak" and refused to get involved. 
That leaves Kevorkian's defonse to David Gorosh, a 30­Yf\ar-old f'ormer pnblk defond­('r and 0110-tirne Ficgcr employ­ep, and perhaps to Kevorkian himsnlf. 
To sonH' kgal experts, il all adds up to tho most challeng­ing trial that KPvorkian has 
fawd. 
"I think his days as a free man .an~ n um be red." said Elizalwth Priee Foky, a profes­sor at tlrn Detroit College of I.aw at Michigan State University. "If the jurors don't want to go so far as to say he's a murderer. there's a strong possibility they're going to find him guilty of the (controlled substance) delivery charge." 

First-degree murder carries a mandatory sentence of life in prison, while the drug charge is punishable by up to seven years in prison. 
Kevorkian is charged in the death of 52-year-old Thomas Youk, who was diagnosed two years ago with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease -a pro­gressively fatal illness that oventually leaves victims unable to speak, swallow ,H move. 
By last year, family mem­bers said, Youk was having trouble breathing and was afraid of choking on his own saliva. In September, Kevorkian went to Youk's home and videotaped a meet­ing. The grainy video shows Youk sitting in his wheelchair, mumbling responses to Kevorkian's questions. 
Kevorkian came back the next evening. The videotape shows a man with a needle searching for a vein on Youk's hand, then injecting him three 
and academics in attendance, but especially for the Notre

Death 
Dame undergraduates," said philosophy professor W. David
continued from page 1 
Solomon, who teaches medical ethics at Notre Dame. 
tunitv for all interested under­Meilaender has written sev­
graduates to participate in the 
eral books, most recently
conference. 

"Body, Soul and Bioethics" and "The lecture was for the ben­
"Bioethics: A Primer for 
efit of not only the physicians Christians." 

......iiR~cycle 
'~e :Observer. 

THE CENTER FOR ETHICS AND RELIGIOUS VALUES IN BUSINESS PROUDLY PRESENT 
Elynor Williams 

Vice President of Sara Lee Corporation 

f.rofessor Todd Whitmore 
Notre Dame Theology Department 
Speaking on 

Diversity in the Woriplace: The Ethical Imperative 
Part of the Frank Cahi11 Lecture Series 
Thursday 3/25/99 Jordan Auditorium 4:00 -5:30 


If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, s4mmer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $170 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student housing is available. 
HOLY

You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for CROSS the 1999 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. COLLEGE
* 
Office ofAdmissions
Session I -May 17 to June 24 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Session II -June 28 to August 5 

(219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 e-mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 


i 
I I 
Mond,n·, Mar(h 22, 191)') 
I 

¦ 1 
Woman fatally stabs boyfriend over steak ---~ 
i:rnrr 1./\Ullldm.i\lF 1;1a. 
·\ w11111an fatally slahlH'd lwr hoy!'rknd aft1•r lw lriPd lo s1ra11gll' ll!'r lJP('ausn hl'r d1ildrP11 all' his -;[Pak. polirn said. Tlll' 44­\Par-old 111a11 di1·d l'rom a dwst wound 1•11 ;·111111• to an ill'l':I hospital Saturday. llis nam" was 11111 rPIPasPd. NPighbors said llw 1·1111pl1• had iJPl'll arguing most ol' I.hi' day insidl' 1111' HrP1·l1•way South Motl'I, whPl'I' lhl' woman and hl'r 4-i111d <1-vPar-old daughlPrs Wl'n' slaying with a frfp11d. Tlw 11w11 11·1'1 l'or a tinw and n•tunwd to find tlw girls Paling a slPak lw had ldt tlwri•. Polit'.1• sav IJ,, lw1·;wu• Pllr:tgPd, slapping t.lw rhil­dr;•n 11111il tlwir molltPr inlPl'Vl'llPd. ThP man I111•11 slrnv,·rl lwr against a kitdwn sink and lH'ga11 l'iioking h1•r. hut. slH• grahlwd a nnar­lly kitdtPll kni!'P and slai>IH'd him, polirl' ..,aid. 
Detroit police crack teen 
prostitution ring 

Dl•:THOIT 
.\11tlwrili1•s say tlwy lrnv1• ,·rn:,;lwd a pros­liLutiun ring wlrns1• ri11glt>ad1•r al\Pgndly lurl'd young, lrouhlml girls lo tlw dty with prolllisPs of' sympathy, mminy and dancing Jobs. ColPni.tn. 39, was arrnign<'d Friday on 1'11a1w•s of transporting minors across state lirws l'or prostitution and st!X. Somn girls wnn~ as young as 12. tlw FBI said. Four oth­1·rs WPrl' also namnd in fodPral warrants. hut it was unrlnar Saturday ii' any had benn arrPst1·d or arraigned. Tlw FBI did not irnnH•diall'ly rnturn a call for comn11H1l. /\ 1'1•dNal aflidavit says Colciman used nunrnr­ous aliasPs as lw bcl'riPn(h•d girls whi111 trav­P Ii 11g through WPst Virginia. Florida, C,•orgia. North Carolina and S()uth Carolina. (;irls told inv1!sligators limy lnf'L troubled h11111Ps al'tl'I' Colmnan promised th1:m money and jobs i11 D1\troit. 
Salinger books remain unpublished 

CONCOHD.Nll 
.1.ll. Salingt>r, who won international ac.-1,lirn for "Tlw Catclwr in the Hyn" but hasn't publisl11•tl anything sincn I %5, has writlPn al l1•ast 15 unpublished books kept lorkNI up in a safl' al his honw, a neighbor -;aid. TIH' n•110wnnd redusn. who nnvnr givns inll•rvh•ws, n111w oul with t!w landmnrk novnl 111' tl'Pll-ag,, alic•rmtion in l1)5 I. IIn publishnd only 111w ollwr novl'I, "Franny and Zoocy'' in 
I'}(, I. and sonrn short stories. Jin lives in sPl'lusion on his nstatl' in Cornish. a town or lhvPr tlrnn 2,000 pnoplP nnar the Vermont hordPr. JPtTy Burt. of' Plainlkld, who was l'ri1•mls with Saling<-.r in the ICJ60s and lives 111•arl,y, told Thn !\ssociatnd Prnss on Saturday lhat Salinger said in ICJ78 h,i'd writ-1.Pll 15 or I(1 otlwr hooks. 

Com11osite Voluml•: 830,700,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

< O)fl'lb') Ill fitK /'UH I 
Pl I.I I O~U•lJTl'lt Ill-:\ I. -V:! -2..0000 -rn.2,-; t _\\1ll!Wll,~. !It II <AH ,_.:'J_to\J -1u,zon IUM 1()1{1 \Y\11 \.1', 1:,,.:1 l'OIU. • 1 ?.2J +2.50()0 17.00 
l)l{1\t I.I. ( '(!RI' ORU. -7.17 -Z.1275 27.56 \l'lWllRK ,\\~t H NETA -12.'19 -4.1900 2K.06 \If< 1<0,on u 11<1· MSfT -0,72 •1.2475 · 171.19 !:'.Ill nHtl' INT(' -Z.,H ~Z,KlZ:'; 119.00 ct\t'\I W~ ITM\ CS<.:O -2.2? ~2.1150 HH.SO \it I WORl.llCll\f l~C WCOM -Uo -2.ZS<Ml 0150 l.i.1l1ll!,All.('O\i l:"JC F.tiliS -~.'JO -2. ltt50 19.69 
COMNI.ED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ 
AFP Photo 

Italian President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro delivers a speech during his visit to Corleone, Italy, the historical home of the Sicilian mafia, which celebrated an anti-Mafia day March 21, in a bid to stamp out the violent clan practices of the Gosa Nostra. 




Sicily holds anti-mafia demonstration 
Scalfaro told a crowd in the town square. Authorities conl'iscatecl 
ASSOCl,'\TED PIIESS the main piazza of the hill­Corleone was home base Hiina's home and made it 
side Sicilian town of for Salvatore "Toto" Riina, into a school, on show 
COHLEONE Corleone. the Mafia's alleged "boss Sunday. 
Italy's president led an 

"In a civil country, this is of bosses," arrested in Corleone's notorinly once anti-Mafia demonstration 
an expression of bullying, 1993 after decades on lhe was such that il lnnt its Sunday in the hometown of 
this is an insurrection run. name to that of an the recently convicted 
against the state." On Feb. 13, a court con­Amerir.an Mafia family in "boss of bosses," driving 
Scalfaro and other victed Hiina and 18 others Mario Puzo ·s "The hom11 a m11ssage of law 
national leaders presided in a 1992 car bombing that Godfather." and order. over a day dedicated to killed a leading prosecutor "It was a capital of tlrn "No one has the right to 
victims of the Mafia . and five police escorts. The Mafia and today instf•ad be above the law; no one 
Organizers assembled a bombing helped prompt a it's a symbol of tlrn fight has the right t<> rebel 
list of 400 peoplo killed by crackdown on organized against the Cosa Nostra," against the law -no one," 
the Mafia in the past 50 crime -a war still bning said Angelo Capodicasa, President Oscar Luigi 
years to be read aloud in fought today. regional prnsiclnnt of Sicily. 
¦ VENEZUELA 



Ecologists fight to save turtles 
Together with Venezuela's ping-pong balls. AdulL'> can grow to 66 
AssOCL'\TCD Pm,~SS Environmental Ministry, FUD ECI pounds. 
gathers nowborn turtles on the beach Scientists also run a "Head Slart" 
SANTA MARIA DEL ORJNOCO or from nests and then raises them in program for marine turtles at the Los 
When famed German scientist controlled conditions through their Roques archipelago in the Curibbean Alexander von Ilumboldt a.rrivod at first year of life. Stronger and bettnr Sea offVenezuela's coast. the mighty Orinoco River two cen­prepared to ward off predators, they The program is not without contro­turies ago, he marveled at 300,000 are returned to the hot, dusty islands versy. Some experts say the programs Orinoco turtles crammed onto a few in the Orinoco, for sea and fresh-wuttir r.urtltls may do tiny islands to lay their eggs. Scientists say 95 percent of the tur­more harm than good by disrupting 
Today barely 1,000 adult females tles born and bred in the wild never an "imprinting" process that @ables are left in Venezuela, but envlronmen• make it to adulthood. Many are killed the reptiles to return to their birth­talists am making a last-ditch e1Tort to by vultures, falcons, alligators, catfish place to lay eggs yoars later, even save South America's largest fresh• and other predators. The biggest after traveling thousands of miles. water turtle and the South American enemy js man, however. The eggs are Hedvely Guada, a turtle expert in country's most t111clangered species. seized for food and the hatched ani­Venezuela, said the progrM1s may not 
On Saturday, 4,300 baby Orinoco mals are considered a delicacy. be as disruptful to fresh water rivnr turtles raised in captivity were An Orinoco turtle can fetch up to turtles, whose range is smuller. released into the river as wide-eyed $207, nearly the monthly wage of Venezuela kicked off the Orinoco schoolchildron and National many workers. "Head Start" program in 1992 and Guardsmen looked on in this remote Desides the "Head Start" program, has released about 55,000 turtles. village 250 miles south ofCaracas. environmental officials and armed Officials say they believe the popula­
"If we weron't doing this ... the National Guardsmen also sleep tion has roaclrnd its nadir and they species would be extinct," said Luis overnight on the islands to protect tho expect to see the numbers start rising Carbone!, head ofFUDECI. a nonprofit eggs from poachers and hunters. Each as the Head Starters turn six years environmental organization. nest holds up to 120 eggs the size of old, the birthing ag(i. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, March 22, 1999 
Former American hostage sues Iran for $100 million 
Associated Press 
ATHENS. Ohio 
Terry ,\nderson is set to sue Iran for $100 million over the mom than six years tlrn former Associated Press correspondent was held hostage, shackled and blindfolded, in Lebanon. The lawsuit accuses Iran of having sponsored his captors. 
The lawsuit to be filed Monday is also likely to Leconrn a challenge to the U.S. govern­ment. 
Tho Clinton administration has thwarted plaintiffs in simi­lar lawsuits from collecting mil­lions of dollars awarded by U.S. courts, even though th(~ damage claims are against countr.ies the State Department labels as sponsors of terrorism. 
In October, the president issued a blanket waivM of a requirement that federal agen­cies help obtain that money. 
"Much of our argument is likely to be with tlrn U.S. gov­Mn ment. rather than the Iranian government," Anderson said in an interview at his home about 10 miles outside Athens, where he teaches journalism at Ohio University. 
"The law says that the U.S. government is supposed to help us in pressing our claim," said Anderson, 51. Conlid,mt of win­ning a judgment against Iran, he said "the biggest obstacle to us rccP-iving any money is the White 1-lous(i." 
The lawsuit, to be filed in U.S. District Court in Washington, also names as plaintiffs ,\ndcrson's wife, Madeleine Bassil, 49, and their daughtP.r, Sulome, who snek rndress for emotional distress and their long separation from Anderson. 

Sulome, 13, was born three months after her father, then AP chief Middle East correspon­dent, was taken captive in Beirut on March 16, 1985, as he returned from a morning tennis game. 
Held longer than any other American in Lebanon, he was freed 2,454 Jays later, on Dec. 4, 1991. The family is seeking $100 million in compensatory damages and unspecified puni• tive damages. 
Named as defendants are the Islamic Republic of Iran and its Ministry of Information and Security. 
The lawsuit savs Anderson's captors were 'members of llezbollah. or Party of God, "a politico-paramilitary terrorist organization operating in Lebanon." It says Iran is the party's sponsor, "providing it with funding, direction and training for its terrorist activi­ties in Lebanon." 
lt says that as a hostage Anderson was fed a poor diet of bread, cheese and rice; was beaten, taunted and humiliated; was regularly threatened with death and falsely promised release; heard his fellow cap­tives beaten and one die,; grew so depressed he beat his head against a wall until he bled. 
Iran's U.N. ambassador. Seyed Mohammad Hadi Nejad llosseinian, denied Friday that Iran had supportAd the hostage• takers and said U.S. courts have no jurisdiction over foreign countries. 
In a faxed reply to questions, 

Nejad Ilosseinian said through 
a spokesman Iran condemns 
international tArrorism and that 

them is "no shred of credible 
evidence" that it finances 
Ilczbollah. One way of collecting is to go cases said the U.S. government 
lran as well as Cuba, Iraq, after assets frozen in the United has raised a variety of objec­Libya. North Korea, Sudan and Statfls. But the administration is tions, including possible c:ompli­Syria arc listed by the State trying to block this avenue. cations in dealing with these Department as state sponsors of U.S. government lawyers are countries, with which it has no terrorism. fighting the family of Alisa formal relations. Iran, for 
roreign countries used to Le Flatow, a college student from example. holds U.S. property in largely immune from lawsuits New Jersey killed in a 1995 bus its country, just as the U.S. gov· in U.S. courts.. The bombing in Israel, who won a ernment has custody of Iranian Antiterrorism and EffecthA $247.5 million judgment against property in the United States. Death Penalty Act of l 996 Iran. The same goes for three of Sandy Bergflr. the president's allows legal action against Anderson's follow hostages, national security adviser, did countries alleged to sponsor who last August won a $65 mil­not respond to repeated terrorism that kill or injure U.S. lion judgment against Iran. requests for commf!nt on ih<! citizens. The families of three Cuban­policy. The State Department 
Such lawsuits seemed to get a Americans killed in 1996 when had no public commnnt. boost last October when Cuba shot down their private Anderson has litt!P. expecta­Congress required the Treasury planes won a $187 million judg­tion of getting any money and State departments to help ment. The U.S. government eitlrnr, but explains: "ff we don't rer:ovor damages. But an escape gave each $300,000 in seized file a suit, whenever Iran and clause empowered the presi• Cubau assets but has battled thn United States settln dent to bar such help "in the their attempts to get morn. accounts, we won·t be sitting al interest of national security." Plaintiff lawyers in these the table." 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Donald Sniegowski will discuss the scholarships and inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Wednesday, March 24, 1999 
6:00 p.m. 138 DeBartolo 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of inl·xn;:-Jion may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meetmg date. 
WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN MATHEMATICS? 
Many career opportunities are available to students with degrees in mathematics. The training and analytical skills acquired in studying mathematics are precisely what many companies and professional schools look for. Here are some of the careers pursued by recent Notre Dame graduates in mathematics: 
• 
Actuarial Positions in the Insurance Industry 

• 
Computer Programming and Systems Analysis 

• 
Management Consulting 

• 
Teaching at All Levels 

• 
Post-graduate Study in Business Administration, Computer Science, Engineering, Law, Mathematics, Medicine, Ivlusic 


For infonnation about majoring in mathematics contact Prof. Dennis Snow (snow. 1©nd. edu), Department of Mathematics, room 203 CCMB, or come to the 
Spotlight Program for Mathematics Tuesday, March 23, 7-8 P.M. Room 226 CCMB 
Mon<lay, March 22, 1999 The Observer• NEWS page 7 
Inspectors: 'Potential catastrophe' awaits Capitol 
Assud,uctl l'rc,s arc.ls. lnspoctors reported how; 
• Congrnssional workers risked blood­WASIIIN(;T<)N transmitted diseases by digging through 
Now ,·ommiltt\d lo following the laws contaminated trash without protective it impos1•s on tlw rpst of' /\nwrica, clothing. C11ngrPss is finding its own workplacP • One building contained high concen­so l'raught with dang.-r and can~lm;s-lrations ol' the bacteria that causn 1wss t.hat ins1wctors hav<' worrimi about L!•gionnaires' disease. a "p11lnnlial ratastroplrn," rncords • Jfoculcitrant officials had to bo show. issuod federal citations before they 
Iliggi11!{ into tlw howpls of' tlrn Capitol nrnvPd l1ammable liquids stornd nPal' and otlwr C"1111gn•ssional buildings. nnw exp()sml oloctricul wires and in other inspPctors na11wd by lawrnaknrs to 1>ro-dangerous places. 11•1· 1 1•111pl11y!\PS' sal'l'Ly discovnr1•d Tlw Offic<' of Compliance inspflctors Cungrnss· mai11l1•n,mcn workPrs had Urn issued a scathing report last November higlrnsL acl'iclPnt raln in tlw nnlirn gov­on tho work of the 2,000-employee l'rtt 1m•11L Capitol ArchilPct's Office, rnsponsible 
;\ y«-nr's worth of' inspnctions ol' tlrn ror upkel~p of' tlrn Capitol, eight congres­C.t•·itol gro1rnds l'ound plnnly of haz-sional officn buildings, tlw Library of 
,-------------------­
NEEDAJOB for the 1999-2000 academic year? 
Student Activities is now accepting applications for all areas: 
LaFortune Building Managers Stepan Center Managers Ballroom Monitors Office A)sistants Set Up Crew Information Desk Attendants Sound Technicians ND Express Shipping Attendants 
Applications avaiIable at 315 LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Thursday, April 1. For more information, call 631-7308. 
Congress, the Supreme Court and the power plant that suppli11s cooling and heating to congressional buildings. 
"Overall ... protections for employee lrnalth and safety fall far below those that prevail in private companies and government agencies that have good safety programs," that report conclud­ed. 
The Architnct's Office says it is just hnginning to change a cultum of neglcct on Capitol llill. 
"We wtire behind" in bringing Congress into compliance, said Lynne Theiss, tho Architect's executive officer. "We aro making great strides to get ahead of' the curvn. We had a general change in our approach to bm,iness." 
Just last wrrnk. howewir, inspectors found 14 now health and safety viola­tions at tlw powtff plant. Tlrny included nxccssivc nxposure to coal dust, lack or a comprehensive respiratory program, failure to clean and disinfoct respirators and a lack of' working fire extinguish­ers. 
Patricia Dollar, the Architect's former recycling coordinator, had a firsthand look at the hazards inside a closet in one !louse officn building. 
"Six drums were in them," she said. "One or the drums was very rusty and had popped and expanded. We unscrewed a little cock. We looked down and it was bubbling. It was a combination of lcl'tover chemicals from the furniture repair shop. And it was extremely flammable." 
Fire also is a serious fear for workers. Hazel Dews, a nighttime custodian in the Senate office buildings, complained, "Wti are in three buildings with one exit l'rom 11 p.m. to 7 a.m." 
The I louse inspector general rnported in December that the Capitol and five other congressional properties were firetraps that left visitors, lawmakers and employees with an "undue risk of loss of lifo and property." 
Fresh worries keep emerging. 
In January, Architect's employees removed asbestos from a Capitol Police locker room -but 1rnver told the offi­cers what they were doing. Asbestos can cause cancer if its dust is breathed. 
Theiss acknowledged the officers should have been notified, calling it "a failure to communicatP." 
Congrnss historically has exempted itself f'rom the federal safoty and labor laws it imposes and which are enl'orcml on corporatn America by ag1mcies such as the U.S. Occupational Sal'dy and II e a It h ;\cl m i n is lratio n . Bu t wlw n Republicans took over tlrn llous,i in 1995, they engirrnerod passago of lngis­lation that committed Congrnss to fol­low those statutes and created tlrn Office of' Compliance to m1f'orcn thmn. 
The Office of Compliancn paints a portrait of a Capitol slow to adjust. It reported that two ynars ago inspectors found "improper storage of nxcnssive quantities of f1ammabln liquids al sev­eral locations" that worn charndnriznd as a "potnntial catastrophn." 
When inspectors retu nrncl rncPnlly, they found the same materials still pre­sent. 
"To g11t these hazardous malnrials removed. the general couns1!l had to issue citations, which finally rnsulted in the elimination of' this snrious hazard," the report said. 
Thniss said th<i Architect's OITicn obtained "the right contairwrs·· aftnr the initial inspection, hut •·we did not reduce the volumes. Quito honnstly, I think it was an oversight." 
The Officn of Compliance also found that the Architect's Office had "th1\ highest accident ratn in the fod1wal gov­flrnment." Thn rate of' lost time dun to injuries on Capitol llill was about fiv11 times higher than for U.S. Fnrnst Service workers, whoso duties includn fighting wildfires. 
Theiss said there has been "some minimal improvement" by instituting training programs on problnms such as how to "safely use a ladder, how to safely store a ladder." 
She said some trash operations also were shut clown last sumnwr to re-,wal­uate safety, and workers subsequently were given protective clothing likn aprons, gloves, tongs and proper shoos. 
This occurred after some Architect workers risked exposurn to disease when they "manually dug through pilns of trash, measuring up to three font in depth, in order to remove foreign mate­rials from recyclable paper products," safety insp11ctors reported. 

¦ SAUDI ARABIA 



Iraq orders pilgrims to return 
Associated Press  expenses out of frozen funds.  
Saudi Arabia had offered to  
MECCA  pay Urn pilgrims' l~xp1mses,  
Iraqi pilgrims streanrnd into  but Iraq termnd that "charily"  
Islam's holiest city of Mecca  and rejected it.  
on Sunday, apparently  Irnqi leader Saddam  
unaware their government  Hussein apparently had hopnd  
had ordered them home in a  the drama would highlight the  
dispute over who's going to  harsh effects ol' U.N, Pconomie  
pay for the trip.  sanctions sincP 1990 that  
The pilgrims, completing  have left most Iraqis too poor  
the 930-mile journey from the  to make the pilgrimage.  
Saudi border, stepped out of  The of'ficial Iraq News  
busns and made their way to  Agency quoted Muhsin Fahim  
camps set up to accommodate  al-Farhud, an official who had  
them during the annual  accompaniPcl the pilgrims, as  
Muslim pilgrimag11.  saying Saudi policn intimidut­ 
"I want to thank President  cd the pilgrims and cut off  
Saddam Hussein for all his  their drinking watnr.  
help, God bless him," Abdul•  Mnny of' the busos that  
Karim a]-Bas!nji, of Erbil,  headed back Saturday had  
Iraq, told Associated Press  Just arrived in Mncca hours  
Television Network, as he  before, and many of the lraqb  
st<~ppod off the bus.  oxprossod sorrow ror bning  
He didn't know that a day  unable to perform the-hajj pil­ 
earlier. Baghdad ordered the  grimage, a duty requirPd by  
18,000 Iraqis who traveled to  all abln-bodind Muslims at  
the holy city for two weeks of  lnast oncn in a lil'ntinrn if' tlrny  
religious observances to  can afford it.  
return home after Saudi  "First wo clwnrnd, dancnd  
Arabia refused its demand  and clappocl," Ad nan  
that Iraqi funds frozen by  Mohammed. rf'ml'mbering the  
U.N. sanctions be used to pay  Iraqis' joy at g(ilting-into  
for the journey.  Saudi Arabia, said Saturday  
On Sunday, Iraq accused  on returning to Karbala. Iraq.  
the kingdom of using intimi­ lie added that "in Urn end WP  
dation against Iraqi pilgrims  cried" in frustration al not  
and of failing to honor a deal  being a·ble to JH'rform thP  
to finance the pilgrims'  hajj.  

r----~--00:-,-......~--------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer• NEWS Monday, March 22, 1999 
Ballocmisi.,:l!umpjete ·A}b;~ians flee new offensive trip around the world 
Associated Press sisting in pressing an offensive against out-gunned Kosovo rebels. 
MUT, Egypt 
Bertrand Piccard, the Swiss psy­chiatrist-dnrn.mer, and his British co-pilot Brian Jones sot their globo~ circling balloon down on re.mote Egyptian moonscape Sunday. link­ing the dawn of a new millennium with a civilization 5,000 years old. 
"Up there it was grandiose, ahsol11tely grandiose:" Piccard said \\-1th a smile suggesting that was not the half of it, Several times he stuppnd trying to find words and fought back tears. 
Jones beamed at his side, nodding happily. 
"Wo arn so grateful f'or that invisi­ble hand that guided us all the 
way, making the worst part was right things hap-, IF YOU ASK ME NOW the cold, "All of our water
pen when they WHETHER I'D DO IT 
w~.re. suppo_st-!d frozf¼ at night, so to, P1cr.ard said. AGAIN I'D SAY NO, BUT ASK we waited till day 
Together they ME LATER.• to fill the kettles," conquP-red thH he said. "H was last grrat c:hnl­very, very cold up lenge of the air. 
BRIAN JONE.c-; th;~;~;·ng ground

floaling morr than 26.000 miles BRITISH BAUOONJST winds to the 1101th 
herthree young 4m.:1~hters. She had sat up until early SundcJ.y with Swiss television crews, poring over maps · ½'bile sifting tl:rrr:n~gh'fragm"nts, of co:ritradir;tory fofonnatiori on thfl balloon's trajectory. 
She was Piccard's first thought 
after he emerged from the Egyptian army helicopter that brought the pllot~ from the landing site, a flo.t patch among dunestwd rocky hills , about 50 miles. north of this oasis 
settlement iii westeiiEgypt. 
"My next, exploit will be something 
I've bPen wanting to do for a long 
time, which is. sit with my wife and 
daughters and fathe-r in front of a 
warm fireplace and tell them about 
this trip," th{~ 41-year-old doctor 
said. 
Jhnes said the 

arouud the earth in their Breitling Orbiter J. They crossed the "fmish line" ·over Mauritania at 4:54 a.m EST Saturdav. 
At the 011d, strong winds over Libya boosted them to 39,600 feet and carried them on to a landing in Egypt 
Jules Verne fantasized the exploit in a novel called "Five Weeks in a Balloon." But Piccard and Jones did it in less than three, combining space-age technology with the old­est of human motivations: guts and a quest for glory. 
They carried amid their scant baggage a copy of "A Life." Written by French novelist Guy de Maupassant and dedicated to Verne, it had been in Verne's personal library. 
"To think that that book had been handled and read bv Jules Verne, and we had it with us, too, to read -it was wonderful," Piccard said . 
.lean Verne, great-grandson of the 19th century novelist, said he loanod the book to Piccard to bring the balloonist luck. 
"I told him that if he stayed in Lhe spirit of .Julns Verne heroes, he would succeed this time thanks to that." 
Picrnrd's wife, Michelle, waited in Cairo, biting her nails and calming 
forced them to 
abandon plans to 
re1!,ch tho pyra• 
mids. Thoy had to 
touch down at dawn..before winds 
blew too hard, ·ahd they settled -0n 
empty desert near here. 
By the time they reached Egypt, 
the two men who had flown 29,056 
miles in 19 days, 21 hours and 55 
minutes. 
They landed at 8;02 a.m. local 
tjrn~ Sunday {l:02a:;rri ... EST), hut 
lJeeause· ofh>gistiy{!lfou1-ups the .. 
heUcopters broughkthem to the 
small airport here only at 3:40 p.m. 
(8:40 a.m. EST). . 
·Piccard said thatafter spending 
nearly 20 days in a balloon, being 
marooned for mbr;eJhan seven 
hours in the desertwasn't so ba.d, ·"lf ,vas beautifut:1:fa1 said of the barren terrain. Winds tipped over the gondola after it finally set down. 
"We had to run around thfl bal­
loon with our knives to make holes 
to keep from being dragged across 
the desert," Jones said. He added: 
"The balloon is a.bit ofa mess." 
Jones, a 51-year·old pilot and bal­
loonist. said he felt as del1ated as 
the balloon physically. But he was 
clearly in high spirits. 
"If you ask me now whether I'd do it again, I'd say no," he said. "But ask me later." 

ATTENTION SENIORS 
STILL INTERESTED IN A TEACHING SERVICE PROGRAM? 
Come to the Center for Social Concerns 
March 25 or March 26, 1999 
for in;formation and/qr'interview.. 
In the new millennium, you will be participating in the challenge of urban education by teaching in an inner city Catholic high school, living in community and experiencing the·cultural richness ofNew York. 
Set up an intervie\V with Sister Deanna Sabetta at the Center before March 24. 
Come and find outabout "a year to remriftf~ ~tif , an experience you wfll.treasure. '' 
LJK0VAC. Yugoslavia 

Thousands of Kosovo Albanians, some clutching no more than a blanket, ['led a Yugoslav army off<>nsive Sunday that bas spurred a last-dilch US mission to convince President Slo·bodan Milosevic that NATO attack thrnats are serious. 
On the second straight day of army attacks on Kosovo rnbel strongholds, Washington dispatched senior envoy Richard Ilolbrookc to meet with the Yugoslav leader. 
With NATO moving closer to long-threat­ened airstrikes, U.S. national security advis­er Sanely Berger said the Holbrooke mission \.Vould be a "final effort for pnacP." 
Holbrookc\ will be accompanied to the Yugoslav capital by U.S., European and Hussian mediators who participatml in last week's f'ailnd Paris peace talks. Ikfore arriv­ing in Belgrade, Holbrooke was to stop in Brussels, Belgium, to confcH with NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana. 
Hofbrooke hopes to meet Monday night with Milosevic. 
Airstrikes am likeiv to f'ollow if' tlw talks end with Milosevic defiant on two counts: still refusing a Kosovo peaco plan and pc\r-
Solana consultr~d with qllins on airstrikP plans Sunday, and an allianre official said military action could lw launclrnd "in ti!(' very near f'uturn." 
Tho official, spnaking on condition of' anonymity, said the warning time for NATO military forces to attack has be,1n rnduc·pd from 48 hours to just a f'nw hours. 
Europnan lr.aders unitnd Sunday in tlwir call for Milosevic to stop the violence) a11d accept the Kosovo pnaco agrncnrnnt or f'acn a NATO air attack. 
"We am ready to do it and Prnsidr~nt Milosevic should not misunderstand that." British Foreign SecrPtary Hobin Cook told tlw British Broadcasting Corp. on Sunday. 
A top Yugoslav Army gimcral said Sunday tho country's troops am f'ully proparcd !'or any at.tack, tho statP rwws agonry Tanjug reportnd. 
Gm1eral Nebojsa l'avkovic, in charge of' all army corps responsiblP l'or Kosovo, visitnd a garrison ill soutlrnrn Sorhia and said tlH· units have lrnnn prPJHtrr~d "t.o rqJ!'I a11:v aggrnssion against our ,·.ountry." 
llolbrooko's trip to Bolgrac!P 1:omos with Kosovo's violnnw spn•ading. 

Avalanche kills 3 snowmobilers 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska 

An avalanche killed thrne snowmobilers on Sunday and two were missing, authorities said. 
A helicopter and specially trained dogs who can sniff out people buried under sever­al feet of snow were sent to the area. 
Alaska State Trooper spokesman Greg Wilkinson said the avalanche occurred about 4 p.m. in the Turnagain Pass Recreation Area, about 50 miles south of Anchorage. 
Troopers at the scene reportnd at least three injuries, Wilkinson said. He said the victims were riding snowmobiles when the avalanche occurred, but did not have other dntails. 
SParclrnrs wPrn conv!\rging on tlw slid<' arna as tlrn sun bngan to snt Sunday, probing t.lw snow looking for survivors. 
Tim Alaska Army National Cuard also was sending one of its rescue\ groups to tlw pass. 
Tbe slide occurrod nine days after another avalanclrn partially burind several pnople at Urn Alyeska Resort in Girdwood. Those skiers wern not injured. 
Turnagain Pass, in tlrn Chugach Mountains at the northern end of' the Knnai l'Pninsula, has received several font of' snow in tlw past f'ew days. Tempcraturos in tlw 40s Sunday may have increased avalanrlw danger by putting a heavier laycir of' mcdting snow atop harder layers. 




reminder 

IF YOU WANT TO GET INVOLVED IN YOUR CLASS GOVERNMENT NEXT YEAR, APPLY TO BE ON NEXT YEAR'S 

CLASS COUNCIL. 
Applications are currently available in the Student Government Office, 2nd Floor, LaFortune. Applications are due 
Wednesday, March 24 
and interviewing will start 


Thursday, March 25. 
U p • WWW 

Monday, March 22, 1999 The Observer• OSCAR NEWS page 9 

Elizabethan England rules over Hollywood 
As.\m.:incd l'rC.'t.'t 
I.OS /\NGHES 

111 a night of surprisl's and lljlSl'ls, lhP J'Ollllllllir ('()Jllf'd,V "Shak1·s1warP in l.ov,•" won s" ,, "11 /\('ad" 111 y /\wards o 11 Sunday. illf'l11ding bnst pit-turf' and llf'sl art rPss l'or c;wynoth I'aIt row. SL c• vI' n Sp iPI b<' rg · s hlood_v World War 11 Ppic "Saving l'rival<' Hyan" won Llw pri1.I' !'or rlirl't'ling nnd !'our ot hnr Os,·ars, 
llolH•rto BP11ig11i. as an Italian IP\\' shii'irling his so11 f'rom llw lwrrnrs ol' llw Ilolornusl in "l.il'n i-; I\Pau1i1'11I," stunn"d tlw audi­f'IH'f' hy IJp1·0111i11g tlw first star 111' a f'on•ign lilm to win as llPst artor. Tllf• l.ragi-comi<" film. whirh l!l'11ig11i also wroll' and d\rp1·1t·d, won additional /\cad(\ll1Y /\wards for f'orPign lil111 ancl dramalir sron•, 
"This is a tPrrihlP mistakP bPra11s,· I 11sPd up all my i'.11glish." Ju· said, as lw !Papi lo th" stag" for thP sp1·or11l tinw. 
Tlw split bPtWf'l'll lwst pil'!un• and dirPrtor markPd tlw l'irsl tinll' si1H'P I1J8'J tlw priz<·s had gon<' to dilll'!'t'llt moviPs, Thal _vPar. "Driving Miss IJaisy" won as lll'sl pil'\11rP, \\'hill' Olivl'r Sto111• was nai1wd lwsl dil'f\Clor for " Bo r 11 1111 th 1· F o u rt h of .lulv." 
l'-altrow, 1wvPr hPforP 110111i­11atP1l. was lwnor('(l !'or her ro!P as tl11• ohjf'rl of a young Bard's af'l',•,·t ions. 
"I do11 ·1 l'P<'I wry dl'Sf'rving of this i11 your prPSl'llCP," slw said, soi>hi11g, as slw nanwd lwr fol­low 11omi1J1\PS. 
.ludi !lP111·.h. who playnd tlrn impPrious hut fair-minded !}LJ<'l'll l•:lizabPth I in "ShaknspPal'I' in l.ovP," and .lanws Coburn. t.i!f' alcoholic, ahusiw fallwr in "/\f'lliction," won IH'st supporting Osl'ars. 
"Saving l'rivatl' Byan" also took prizPs for cinematography, Pditing, sound and sound nf'f'ncts Pdiling. 
"J\111 I allowPd to say I rnally wanted this'?" Spielbnrg joked as 111• accPptnd his second dirPcting Oscar. llis first was l'or ··schincllPr's List" i11 1<J<J:1. 
"Shak<\SJ)Parn in Low," which ln<l all conl<\mlcrs wilh 1:1 nom­inations. also picknd up Oscars for original scrnnnplay, art dirt\ction, coslumP dnsign and musical or conrndy scorn. 
"Elizal>Pth" won !'or mak1)up. "Gods and Monsters" won l'or adapatNI scrncnplay. 
Tlw most r.011 trovorsial monHHJt of thn show canrn and WP!lf. quickly, as din1ctor t•:lia Kazan -rnvi!Pd by so111<1 for naming nanrns during tlw Md:arlhy (\l'a -stnppPd oul lo arcopt a lifotinw achiovnrnent award. Many mn111bnrs ol' tlrn au d innc11 applauclnd lrnartily. somP stood. whil11 others. like actors Nick Noltn ,lnd hi Ilarris. sat silnntry. 
Bnsiclns Benigni, thn only p11r­fornwr in a f'ornign languagn film to win an Oscar was Sophia l.orP!l for "Two Wom1•11" in 
I1)h I, 

Fittingly, it was Miss Lornn who prPsented him with his l'irst award of llw night. Tlw ))(1l'JJl'ltrnlly nhullinnt Bnnigni clamben)d ovpr the backs of scats and hoppPd onlo lhP stage af'lnr Lornn opnnly rootnd for lwr follow Italian and announced his l'on\ign film vic­
tory, 

"I want to kiss 1werybody," said BPnigni, who also was nominated in directing and scrnnnplay categories, while thn f'ilrn was a lrnst pit'.turn con­lt'ndnr. · 
/\noth1w llolocausl lilm, "Thn Last Days," won tho documen­tary award. 
Dench, who made an ind1ilible im prnssion despitn her brief' screen Limn in the r()mantic comPdy, hnld up lrnr gold stat­untte and said with a smiln: "I fen! !'or eight minutes on the scr11en I should only gnt a little bit ol' him." 
It was the first Oscar for the 
In love with "Shakespeare" 

Best Picture 
('Shakespeare in Love" 
Best Director Steven Spielberg 1'Saving Private Ryan" 
Best Actress Gwyneth Paltrow "Shakespeare in Love" 

Best Actor 

Roberto Benigni 
"'Life is Beautiful" 
Best sunoortinu Actress Judi Dench "Shakespeare in Love" 

Best Supporting Actor 
James Coburn "Affliction" 
Most Academv Awards 
7, "Shakespeare in Love" 
64-year-old British stage actrnss, who had been nominat­ed last year for playing a differ­ent queen, Victoria, in "Mrs. Brown." 
Coburn, 70, had never been nominated. ''I've been doing this work for like over half my life, and I finally got one right, I guess," said the veteran actor, whose dozens of films include "Our Man Flint" and "The Magnificent Seven." 
"Some of them you do for money, some of them you do for love. This is a love child," Coburn said, 
Host Whoopi Goldberg, who changed costumes repeatedly to mimic lilm characters, got the show off to a rousing start when she came out in full regalia as Elizabeth -who figured in two of this year's contenders -get­ting a rousing ovation, then a 
laugh when she announced with an accent that was more Bette Davis than British, "I am the African Queen." 
She joked about being tlrn last master of ceremonies of the century and millennium, saying: "I am the last 20th century fox." And referring to this year's furor over the special Oscar for Kazan. Goldberg joked: "I thought the blacklist was Hattie McDaniel and me." 
The lack of a runaway favorite helped make the 71 st Academy Awards among the most anticipated in recent his­tory. 
With two well received films as the leaders, the campaign for votes was conducted largely in Hollywood trade paper and newspaper ads. 
Miramax, which often stages big-money campaigns for its Oscar candidates and succeed­ed two years ago with a best­picture win for "The English Patient," laid out millions for "Shakespeare in Lovn" ads. 
DrcamWorks was forced to counter with an estimated $4 million to promote its "Saving Private Hyan." 
The battln of tlrn duding stu­dios prompt<id calls for rnslric­tions on campaign oxpensr.s. But, as in the polilical arena, no one has proposed how to limit the expcnditurns, 
The Kazan controv11rsy start­ed after Karl Maldr.n proposml an honorary award for the director of "A Streetcar Named Desire," "On th,~ Watnrf'ront." "East ol' Eden," "GP11tleman's /\greement" and other classics. The board of governors agnwd, 
Kazan had long brwn criti­cized because he namml names of his former Communist Party comrades boforn the Ilouso Un­American Activities 1·.orumitltie in 1952. 
/\fter the academy announced the honor, hn was attacked as a traitor by those whose deliancn of the committee placnd thPm on the inrlustry's blacklist. 
The furor over the Kazan award overshadownd anolhnr honorary Oscar this ynar -the Irving G. Thalbnrg Mnmorial /\ward Lo longtime proclucnr­din1ctor Norman Jewison, whose credits indudn "Tim Cincinnati Kid," "In tlw Ileat of' the Night," "Fiddler on tlrn Roof," and "Moonstruck." 

NEOTROPICAL NATURAL HISTORY Biology 294, 3 credits, Summer Session University of Notre Dame Course Dates, May 19 -June 16, 1999 
Spend two weeks in the field in Belize and Guatemala, Central America. 
Participants will have the opportunity to acquire knowledge ofthe neotropics, and visit national parks and reserves, caves, virgin rainforest, Mayan ruins, and the second largest coral reef in the world. 

Topics covered include: 
I. Tropical ecosystems 
2. 
How a rainforest functions 

3. 
Tropical plants 

4. 
Rainforest fauna 

5. 
Tropical savannas 

6. 
Mayan civilization 

7. 
Maya today in relation to ecosystem management 

8. 
Coastal ecosystems: mangroves, seagrass, and coral reef 

9. 
Marine fauna and flora IO. Neotropical resource management 


11. Ecotourism 



Total cost of the course is $3600, which includes tuition, all

To register, contact: meals, lodging, transportation, entrance fees, etc,, while in the
Dr. William C. llamltll B-10 Haggar Hall, UND 
field. •.. A non-refundable deposit of$1000 is required by March 30, 1999.

631-7194, haml•tl.l@nd.edu Field itinerary and photographs from previous excursions 
available at: www.nd.edu/-sbcme/summer course.html 






VIEWPOINT 
page 10 ------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME 0Fl'!CE; P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-747[ 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EDIT0lt-lN"CHltf Michelle Krnpa MANAGING EDITOR BUSINF.'iS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryan Dave Rogcro 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Lal1ra Perclle 

NF,WS EDITOR ..............................Tim Logan ADVERTISINC MANACER.......................Brvan Lutz V1FW1'0JNT EDITOR ...........Colleen Gaughen AD OE.slGN MANAGER .........Kenneth.Kearney Sl'ORTS EmTOR . . . .. •........... Brian Kessler SYSTEMS MANAGER ......................Michael Revers ScENE EDITOR.. .....Mid,ocl V,neg>< CoNTROl.LFR .. ... ... .. ...............Timothy L,n, SA.!N'r' MARY'S EDITOR., ... CoUt":t"'n McCarchy GRA.PIIICS EDIT0R.......•...••..00............Joc Mueller PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin D,lum Wm ,\DMINl5TRAT0R.......................Alli,on Krilla 
Th-: C\llli~·rvt:r i~ the· i11dcp1.·ndt.·m nc-v.·~p.ipcr jn1hli\ht:-! by thi: ~tmlt:nt.~ of th..: Univcnity 9fNorre Oumc du Lie ,rnd Sni111 Mary'!i Colle5e. ft doc:., nm nccr.:"'"-trily reOi..-cr the policiei. of th1: ,1dmi11i.~tr;1tim1 (If dthcr institution. ·n1e news i5 
rcporlL·d JS 01ccuratcl)' .1'nd nhjcielivdy .L'i pru.siblc Un_,;lgr1cd cdilurii1l,; n..-pn:srnr the orinion of rhe m,1jority of the 
F,llrnr•in-t:hief. l\-1;10.1ging F.<1iror. A.<,i$Unr M,1n.1gi1,g F&ror :1n1., dcp.lrrmenr edito~. Comntcnr:1.ries. lencrs :tnlt columns rrt'\l.!m thC" vk"\1-«; of 1ht" auihnrs .md 1101 nt.•ct-s.~::1rily 1ho.~ ofThe Obst"JV(-r. Vkwpoim space is avail.able roan 
nu.·mht:r~ ofrhc Nnul' l):11ndS:1im M:uy's community ;111ll rn ~11 readi::n. Tht fm: i:xprc.,,ion of varying opinioni,: tluough h:m-r... i, c-n1.:mu:1gni 
Contacting The Observer 
Ediror-in-Chief  6.'11-4542  Office Manager/General Jnforrn~rion  6,11-7471  
M:m:1i;ing Editor/Assistant ME  631-4541  Bu~iness Offi(.·~  G.31-53 l 5  
New,  6.,1-532.l  Advertising  63 l -6900/8840  
Viewpoinf  631-530.~  Systems  631-88.~9  
Spom  631 4543  Fax  631-6927  
Sn:n~  63H540  Ad E-M,il  observer@d,rwin.cc nd.edu  
SJ!JH M:.uv's  6.3I-4.n4  News E-M,il  observer.obsnews.1@nd.edu  
Phoro/We-b Adminisrraror  631-8767  Vi~wpoinr E-Mail  oh~rvcr.viewpoim.1@nd.edu  

¦ GUEST COlUMtJ 


On Emerging and Submerging Markets 
Mexico, East Asia. Russia and. now. Brazil. The second half of the 90s has witnessed the linandal collapse of some of tlrn most prominent economies among the so-called "emerging markets." In this context, major international finan­cial institutions. led by the IMF, have approved huge rescue packages in order to stop the draining of these countries' i"orPign reserves and avoid the worst: a 
Claudio Lins de Vasconcelos 

debt moratoria. As G7 countries arc urged to put morn and more money in such packages. public opinion in rich economies has increasingly challenged the lt~nient position of their governments in face of the widely proclaimed fiscal and monetary laxity of developing coun­tries. 
Yet such romplaints are only partly justifiable. As those who have paid attention to emerging markets in the last decade will agree, developing countries have made considerable progress towards political and economic liberal­ization. While deregulating their mar­kets, privatizing state owned companies and reducing trade barriers, most have · struggled to rebuild their democratic institutions, destroyed after four der.ades or so serving as battlelields of the Cold War. llowever, most keep rely­ing on foreign investment to cover their persistent fiscal deficit, which means that they must follow the IMF's macro­nconomic guidelines. In other words, governments are urgPd to grab as much fl.8 llicy can frnm taxes, pay their foreign chdJts promptly and spend the minimum necessary on secondary things, i.e., everything but interest rates. 
Foreign competition, along with fiscal and monetary discipline, has helped to stabilize economies once mined bv the plague of hyperinf1a-· tion. True, but not at a low price. In fact, it must be said, the social costs of the IM F's "orthodox" policies have increased to alarming levels. Take the example of Brazil, where interest rates are as high as 40 percent a year. while inflation was less than three percent in 1998. At such a punitive price, capital is a virtual­ly inaccessible good for local companies. usually too small to borrow abroad. This fact, plus an insane corporate tax load, makes competing against transnational 

giants, usually a hard task, a Herculean job. 
One does not need to be an economist to predict some immediate outcomes: bankruptcy and massive unemployment leading to a falling demand and a rising private debt. Recession, to put it simply, as Brazil's GDP is forecasted to fall by thrne percent in 1999. 
To make things worse, most develop­ing countries do not have a social securi­ty system strong eno.ugh to cover a household's basic needs for more than a couple weeks, while, as statistics show, unemployed workers would have to wait many months to get a new job. Needless to say, any attempt from the government to use public resources to meet public needs tends to be interprc~ted as a risk upgrade and immediately punished with a massive withdrawing. Unless, or course, the local central bank raises the premium rate. 
That is the famous "speculative attack." a curious phenomenon in which an investor can leave a country at the touch of a keyboard after ear~ing 40 percent a year in an overnight transac­tion. Amazingly, this is not illegal. Maybe counterproductive, to .the extent that it discourages productive invest­ment. or even immoral, due to its social consequences. But it is perfectly legal. 
In any event, few people in rich coun­tries seem to care about the social costs of IMF-led packages in developing cou11­tries, provided that their private pension funds keep making money with gener­ous interest rates. So, who wants inter­est rates to fall in emerging markets'? Investors do not, I guess. Neither do their advisors, the same investment banks that evaluate the "risk rate" in emerging markets. Forget the IMF, whose main shareholdr.rs am prncisely the countries where inv11stors and advi­sors come from. 
The "suits" of Wa.11 Stnrnt will ponder that intnrnst rates in dev1doping coun­tries must be high enough to pay the risk they arc taking. Bisk of what. if at the slightest signal of' prob!Pins tlw IMF ­will run to nnsurn they will gnt their money back, 40 percent l'attnr, anyway"! 
OK, OK. Now I understand why thcsn IMF opcirations are called "rnscun pack­ages." The problnm is that, aftnr all. they arn rnscuing the wrong victims. 
Claudio Uns de Vasconcelos is a sec­ond-year law student. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and nol neces­sarily those of The Obseroer. 
¦ DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
GMPIJW,, M1 I : YB5, 5/R. tuAl-• f)f£AMJNG?M£ OENl5f/NAl­7H~ ~ 1,.y 8N)(.IN I-KJM8£JRS /!£Al' 1H&8llJC,K I  AMAZ!Nf3­7!<1.J!il Mff.,S/R. ANPNe Ch-I IT'S A BUYe.r<'s !iTJU, ATT?J!CT (J)~fACl/1,,7Yr' \  

¦ 0.UOTE OF TH£ DAY 
'Men will lie on their 
backs, talking about 
the fall of man, and never 
make an effort to get up.' 
-Henry David Thoreau 






VIEWPOINT 
Monday, M,1rch 22, 1999 
------------------------page 11 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Cartoonist Should Stick to Cartoons 
This is in responsB lo Dan Sullivan's request for those interested in thn <'Pssutinn of' hatrnd to "get a lifo." 
Although some pe()pln might argue this point, a University expcri­l'llCI', lh<•sfl "four lousy years'' as Mr. Su.llivan so inaccurately put it, is mostly to prPpar1• a pHrson t.o intMtLC1. with th~ "nml world." 
Wi-all spnak ol'thc Notro Dam(\ "bubble" with a certain amount of rlisgust, so why would one condone an attitude I.hat did nothing to dis• p1•l this hubblP'1 I would imaginu that four years ls a long tlrne to foe! likl' vou !Lrl' subhuman. 
Ti; say that th0 opwcssod should just suck it up until they graduate is not fair. lo say the very l1mst. and is ct.mainly unfounded advice when tlw advicn-givnr has noU1ing Ln !'.Uck up. 
Another poi.nt made was that those who feel they are oppressed should ad irn;tcacl of talking. Cunfronting the administration is no easy Lask. A ~roup rnusl discusi-; Hs goals, idtmlogiAs, and slrnl.egies heforn lt acts in tho most r,!lirinnt and reasonable way. i\11 orthe talking has not lw1'!1 in vain, if for no other reason than it has raised awareness. 
Mr. Sullivan ust\S thn tam "ble•iding hearts" as though it won1 a con• dition to bfl swiftly <1radicatr,d. At least some arc opening th<'il' hoart'i to something beyond tlrnmselves. Mr. Sullivan seems determined to keep th,• opprpssed opprnsscd, und I seriously doubt, based on his com­nwnts, if he has any oxpnriencc with rarial hntrnd or abuse basnd on sc-xual orientation. 
Only onl' who has been on I.he rf'cf-living end ol' this negativity would 1W1!r haw grounds to spnak as Mr. Sullivan did, and nven thnn hn could c1fftainly not speak for the entire community of which he was a part. When he finds hirmmlf in the "real world" one day. he will see that "putting up" with such opprussion. as Im is advising £weryone to do. only PIH:ourages further abuse-. 
Sullivan's a.rtichi increases in horror with each paragraph. ''The only n•ason 1wople arn opprPssed is boca use they want to be." Really'? I'm sun• th1' .fows wen• skipping and whistling on the way to thr. gas cham­lmrs thinking, "Finally! We are getting what we want!" I'm sure the Afrkan Ameri!'an peoplP during the days ol'slavery would throw their hands up in lfw air with big grins on their fac11s and do a little dance, shouli11g, "Oh happy day!!" whf'n thny were separated from their fami­lh's and lvnched. 
OpprPssion runs in many limns, and we can't forget that. 
Mr. Sullivan usNl Martin Luthnr King, Jr. a.,; an example towards his ch•fonsr. Ironically. piiople with the sentiments Dan Sullivan expressed arn prndsoly what that great man saw as the most dangerous impedi­m<•nt to his cause-o['justice -"the white moderate who is more intnr­cstml in pre-serving order than justice, who prefers a negative peace which is thll absf'nce of tension to a positive peace which is the pres~ 1!11ce ofjustico (Loltnrs from a Birmingham Jail)." It is prepostnrous to ask pt\ople to just "put up with" tho oppression they arc being dealt via silence, rude comments.people looking the other way, people staring, Insidfl Columns, whatt·ver. 
Lot's nnt ask people who make us uncomfortable because of their dif• forences to shut up and leave. I am not introducing any original, ground-breaking ideas here. I am just adding to the open dialogue that many find so annoying. But I foci confident that my ideas are not per­pntuating a social regression or complacency, and I believe Mr. Sul!ivan's are.The world would be better ifhe and those like him would look around and forgnt about tho trivial things that annoy him long enough to see something that actually matters. 
Laura Wolfe 
Sophomore l'asqueriUa East· M~rch 18, 1999 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


·t(Nf ~ CffltSS\(N 
vii~... 


Animal Rights Article Unnecessarily Insensitive 
I am writing to let Dustin Fnrrnll know that l apprndate his superficial attempt al humor {howevm unsuccflssful), but also lo clarify his statml misconceptions. 
Although I agrne with him that few pPople l'ccl animals and humans des11rve equal rights, I am compelled to bc-lieve that no being crnatcd by God desnrves to be mis­treated, exploited, or manipulated for the mnrc pleasurn or nntertainmenl of another of God's crnalures. 
The manner in which he stated the right "to marinate, to swift cooking, to a dean shot, to decorate, to jump through hoops at Sea World, to entertain [him) on .lay Leno and Wildlife Shows, and to test cosmetics," simply illustrates the insensitive way you chose lo approach an issue that means a great deal to many, especially to those that can't speak for or defend themselves. 
The other rights "to sniff airport luggage land to star! in Disney movies" raises a slightly different issue. Luckily, those ani­mals that participate in activities such as these are rightfully protected by animal wel­fare regulations. A dog that searches for drugs is the family pet of one officer, who is responsible for the animal's health and well being. Other animals that have the intelli­gence and talent to develop skills such as "Air Bud," have a constant companion in an animal rights represnnlative whiln making a film. 
Mr. FPrrell and l shan• the sanw sPnti­nwnts, on movies that hold wild 1111imals capliw l'or filming {thankfully, "Wil!il'" has blwn l'rnnd ), but obviously for diffnrP11l rea­sons. 
Concerning tlrn last right "lo bilt\ owrwrs who make (pets! wPar swl'aters and han­danas," I agree that although we an~ responsible for caring for animals that wn have domesticated, that does not inrlude dressing animals up to make tlrnm "cutp" by human standards. 
l do not expect Mr. Fm•rpll, or anyorrn else. to bncomn vegan, rduse lo hunt or fish. boy­colt circuses and the like. only purchase products not mado from or testml on ani­mals, or any or the other !ifostyl1~ choices I make based on my bdief' that we do not have the right to harm or abuse animals. 
I am not asking him to agree with me, but just to recognize that in his column ho expressed his views in an unnec1issarily insnnsitive manner. 
Nicole Wallis 
Senior Welsh Family Hall March 19, 1999 

Liberation Theology Not 'Just a Sociology' 
I am writing in response to Gabriel Martinez's criticism of libc-ration theology in The Observer nn March 17. 
Liberation thc-ology is a way or doing thn­ology (i.e., thinking about the mystery ol' our Christian faithl which sees tho salvation .Jpsus Christ offors as intrinsically r<~latnd to (though nol synonymous with) people's strugglfl to ovorcome their poverty and change the sinful arrangements that help keep people poor and "unimportant." That struggle is made from within the context of our Christian faith, and VP-rilies the truth of our Christian convictions and commitmnnts. On this drilinition, liberation thnology is not "marxist" or "just a sociology." 
l.ibNation theology is not even nH1ntio1rnd in Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the focus of Mr. Marti1rnz articln and thn basis for his cri­tique or liberation th,iology. The socio-politi­cal dimensions of the gospnl are well-docu­mented by many theologians, many of who are not libt'ration theologians. 
Liberation tlrnology certainly does sec .lnsus as the truth -that sets people free for genuine, concrete lovo of' God and neigh­bor -which domands, among other things, an horrnsl and disciplined look (using social sciences as a tool, whnn helpful) at tlrn rnal­ily of suffnring, inj11stic1\ and prnjudicn, not scorn in tlrn namn ol' Christ for doing so. Thn idea that salvation lrngins ancl nnds with what happnns to my own soul is a vnry dif'ficult rlaim to sustain on biblical and tlw­ological groull(ls. 
Likn any other tlrnology, libnrat.ion thnolo­gy is not rwrfnct, but it dnsnrvns a fair hnar­ing. One can legitimatnly disagren with some or all of' it without Pss1rntially dn11ming it an instrument of sin and thn dupn of tlw devil, and this is what l rnspoctl'ully invitn Mr. Martinez to do. 
I applaud his view that tlrnology rlassns should "proclaim .l11slicn, and Truth and Human Dignity," and suggnst that this is what lilrnrution t.lwology trins quitn succPss­t'ully to do. 
James Ball ( ;rndu:llr Srudenr Dcpanmcn1 ofThcoi<lgy March 21. 19')9 

. '.,.-.,.~ .,. ',,... ,,_·,,,,__ 
1·1-·-e"''"""t..... 
page 12-------------------------------------------Monday, March 22, 1999 



'This' ain't worth the analysis 
The intended cruelty of dangerous sex 
New York mob boss is suf­fering panic attacks due to job related stress and seeks treatment from a 
"Analyze This" 
Director: Harold Ramis 
struggling µsychiatrist. It is such an ingenious con­
Starring: Robert De Niro, Billy Crystal 
and Lisa Kudrow 
. ·) :.) 
-J's_J "..Jy:J (Out offive shamrocks) 
By CHRISTIAN A. PIERCE 
Scene Movie Critic 
Uoos a joke become funnier the more limes you hear il'' Probably not. If anything, you get annoyed wilh it. 
Well, in lhe mm industry, lhis frequent­ly happens with pn~views. When promot­ing a comedy, advertisers will typically cut and paste a few humorous sequences for tho film. If you find these scenes funny, then the advertisers have done their job by enticing you to go see the film. Yet, in seeing the film one would hope that there arc other humorous scenes aside from those in the commer­cials. lf you don't, you're probably pretty ticked off considering that the commercial was free and you just wasted $7 on the film. 
Herein lies the problem with Harold Ramis' new mm, "Analyze This." The pre­views showed the beautiful chemistry that actors Robert De Niro and Billy Crystal seem to have. We watch as mob boss Paul Vitti (De Niro) reaches out to his therapist, Dr. Ben Sobel (Crystal). Now. this sounds like an incredible idea for a movie -a 


"Cruel Intentionsn 
Director: Richard Kimble Starring: Sarah Michelle GeUar, Ryan Phillipe, Reese Witherspoon, Selma Blair and Joshua Jackson 
. . ,,.; ) . ) 
..)"s.j '_J'XJ ,J_'ij 
(Out offive shamrocks) 
By JULIE HAMILTON 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Here's the recipe for making a dark tale uf manipulating love: Take two spoiled socialites from Manhattan and add onn wagnr laced with seduction and the robbery of innocence. This will result in the wicked story of deception, "Cruel Intentions". 
The film stars Sarah Miclrnlle Gnllar (best known for her killer moves in "Buffy the Vampire Slayer") as the sultry Kathryn Mertn~1il nnd Ryan Phillipe ("J Know What You Did Last Summer" and "'!i4"), who portrays playboy Sebastian Valmont. As stcpsiblings, they plot to destroy the reputation and naivete of two young ladies, Annette (Heese Witherspoon) and Cecile (Selma Bl.air). Kathyrn has her own selfish and rpvengel'ul intentions for an attack -hflr boyfriend Court ditched her for the inex­perienced Cecile. 
Kathryn asks hPr stepbrother, Sebastian, l.o assist her in the undertak­ing of thn rnvnngnfol plan. All Sebastian has to <lo is simply seduce the lovely Cecile aud then Court will receive lrnr tainted and unpure. He is the perfect man for this task, since he is one of the most successful womanizers in 
had recently written in Seventeen. Sebastian always gets the women he wants, and he is determined to win Annette as well. 
Sebastian bets Kathryn that he can take away Annette's purity by the time the fall semester begins. Kathryn agrees to the bet, but if he loses, she gets his prize possession -a hot 1956 Jaguar. More interestingly, if he takes Annette's virginity, Kathryn tells her stepbrother that he may sleep with her, something he has desired since their parents married. 
Does any of this seem familiar to you? If it does, don't worry too much. "Cruel Intentions" is a modPrn twist on the novel, "Les Liaisons Dangereuses" ("Dangerous Liaisons"), Its most memo­rable scre(rn adaptation was th1~ Oscar winning "Dangerous Uaisuns," starring Michelle Pfieffer, John Malkovich. Glenn Close and Uma Thurman. This revision uf' the original tale of romantic manipula­tion is more appealing to younger audi­ences because of the identifiable charac­ters that pull in avid fans. 
So the scene is set for Sebastian and Kathryn's cruel plotting. lie slowly tempts Annette with supposed interest in her.personality and her hobbies. He challenges her viewpoint on virginity: only to lose ii to the one you love and cept, with the potential for 
so much material. Yet, it is 
one thing to com<' up with 
a greal idea; it is unother 
to actually see it through . 
"Analyze This" unfortu­
nately never invukes a 
great deal of' laughter in 
its audience. Almost all 
the funnv scenes ani used 
in the previev\lS, and while I found them enjoyable, I had already seen them numerous times. The remain­der of the movie is composPd of stupid lit­lie sequences where De Niro acL'i poorly and Crystal's character fail'. to develop. This appears rather unusual as both actors are of high quulity, each having made stellar pieces in the past. 
I don't know if I can express how truly bad De Niro is in this film. Comedv has never been his forte. but acting with the likes of Billy Crystal, one would thiuk he might rise to the occasion. The character of Paul Vitti is one rather suited for De Niro, similar to his role of Al Capone in "The Untouchables." So why is it De Niro can master the role of Capone, but falls flat on his face for Paul Vitti? To me it's a mystery. 
I'm sure you're wondering what's so bad about De Niro and Crystal? Well, the list goes on and on, though a few prob­lems are worth mentioning. 
De Niro is called on to cry in this film numerous times, something this macho man is clearly not accustomed to. As he cries, one never can tell ifhe is really sup­posed to be crying or if be is merely fak­
ing it. Director Harold Ramis probably "Analyze This." bucks. Skip "Analyze This." 
Manhattan. Although the task seems trivial and easy for this experienced lover, he accepts. 
Sebastian has also become preoccupied with another more challenging conquest. There's a new girl in town, and she is the new headmaster's daugh­ter at Sebastian and Kathryn's exr.lusive high school. Annette is intrigu­ing to Sebastian because of her beauty as well as her chastity. which she declared in an article she wanted the audience to find Dn Niro's cry­ing humorous, but it just comes out as moronic. Clearly, De Niro can not act out a scene which requires crying, and Ramis should have excluded such scenes from the film. 
Crystal on the other hand is umlcrde­veloped as the theraµist Dr. Ben Sobel. WI' see a fow scenes in which Sobel lis­tens to the problems of his patient.'>, main­ly middle-aged couples complaining about their snx lives. Dr. Sobol imagines how he reacls to lhese couples, usually scream­ing. "Get a life." Yet, profrissionally he his relationship with Vitti if his marriage is to survive. Vitti will hear nothing or it, and like any other mob boss, he gets hi!i way by force. Anyway, tlwy meet. tlrny talk, Vitti thinks he's cured, Ur. Sobel knows he's not and the film drags on and on and on. 
From the start, this film is uttcir garbage -somothing not appar­ent in the prnviews. The film is filled with credible actors and actresses perl"orming at their worst. No one in this film can seem to act, which is a shame since they aro all nxtrPrnely tal­ented. The writers mwer include enough humor, which is not going to help a comedy get a good review. 
"Analyze This?" What are you kidding mn'! -tlwn)'s nothing in this film to analyzn. Tim humor is so sparse and tlw stuff in bntwoen is so tediously boring, that th is film just never gds going. My rec­ommendation to you would be to watch the previews and enjoy tlw humor, because that's all this
Photo counesy of Warner Brothers 
film's got. Savn yourself the seven
Roberto De Niro stars in the box-office winner, 
who loves vou in return, and never· before mar­riage. Annette believes in saving this precious event until after she and her boyfriend, Trevor, am married. Sebastian thinks it is silly and tells Annette that she is missing out. She dismisses Sebastian's friendly attempts at con­versation, telling him that she has been warned against his devious ways prior to their meeting. 
Sebastian's persistence pays off. Eventually. Annette becomes less and less annoyed with Sebastian's attention. She realizes that he makes her laugh, and this makes her feel special. 
As for seducing Cecile, the task was complicated 1 by her love for her cello teacher, Ronald. However, Sebastian knows how to play the game. Ile tells Cecile that if she wants l1onald tu love her. she must also be sexually experienced. Of course, 
Photo courtesy of Sony Pictures
Sebastian offers himself as 
Ryan Phillipe, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Reese Witherspoon and
a ··teacher." Kathryn gets 
Selma Blair (top left to bottom right) star in "Cruel Intentions,"
v.'hat she wants, and Cecile 
the modern version of "Dangerous Liasions." 
becomes irritatingly obsessed with sex. 
Finally, Annette starts to feel less loyal to her beliefs and begins to give in to Sebastian's advances. Then the unex­pected happens -the opportunity that Sebastian has been waiting for presents itself, and he rPjects it. Sebastian has come lo a true turning point in his per­sonal feelings for Annett,>, and they ani deeper than he ever intended. 
The film is an. entertaining and visually impressive piece. The plot twists and gives lhcsc people adviso and continuos his mild mannerec.l practice. 
Apparently, Dr. Sobel is supposed lo seem bored, so one would think having mob boss Paul Vitti as a dienl would be exciting. Wrong! Dr. SobPI is getting mar­ried soon to a television news reporter Laura MacNamara, playod by Lisa Kudrow. This angry vnrsion of l'hodw wants nothing to do with Vitti, for any association with him is obviously dangnr­ous. She continually mouths off to Mr. Vitti, who finds her irritating, upsetting his condition ewm furl.her. 
Or. Sobel must then break off 

turns and keeps the general intlirnst level consistent. At first glance, this movie may be a turnoff l'or individuals who were nxpocting a lightlrnart11d, romantic tale. But, just let the lessons of' the lilm snt in over a fow days, and most likely you will realize that the film accomplishes much, and it is intPrnsting and unexpected. The g1wss work involvnd makes "Cruol Intentions" a solid film thal is lacking only in thn aroa or modesty. 

--~-.----....... --.----..-----,-----­



§€ene
_______________________page 13
MonJay, March 22, 1999-----------------OBSERVER 

¦ VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

By DAN SULLIVAN 
Scc:nc-MoviC' Critic 
"(;hosthusters," th,) precursor to such rec,int films as "Men in Black," is an ·xos dassic about four rnjncts from tlw scim1til1c community who go 011 to fight the multitude ol' phan­tasms running nmuck in Nnw York City, nvPntually going on to save the entire world. Buing "children of the '80s" ourselves, I'm sure a majority of us can renwmbnr thn popular car­t,H111 "Slimur and tho Heal C:hostbustPrs," but I was surpri:.;cd to fi ntl a fow 1wopl e who had nuvnr SP(HI llw film from beginning to end. 
Written by llan Aykroyd and llarold Harnis, lhe film comedy is strong, combining nlcmnnts of slap­stick and sight gags -al limes remi­nisn?nl of Tim Thrnu StoogPs -with llw quick wit of' l'el(\r V,inkman (Bill 
Murray). 
The plot is nasy lo follow with a s1itup leaves 1111 loose ,•1Hls by the ('onclusion. Character devnlopmnnt, that the film is somewhat dated bv its spncial effocts. Ghosts for the 111ost part SP,Cm Lo come out more hokey than spooky, and the claymation dogs, inserted wilh bluescrecn, arc embarrassing when compared to today's computer-generatPd charac­ters. Whereas these primitive effects do not detract from the humor ul' the film, it gives the film a campy feel, which I don't believe the film-mukes 
desired. 
Though the film's special nffccts may be lacking, one of the things that has made this l'ilm so successful for the past 15 years is that the script does not completely depend on the support of the special effects. Instead, it is more character-driven than anything else. The ghosts are f'un lo look al but the most interest­ing aspects of the film are how the Ghostbuslers, especially Peter V(\llkman, react to each other. 
Finally, one of the simplest reasons why this film seems to stay in the pop culture mind even after 15 years is 
Photo courtesy ol Columbia Pictures 
Harold Ramis, Bill Murray and Dan Aykroyd star in "Ghostbusters," 1984's blockbuster 
box-office smash. 
how (? v c r , c o u I d h a v n u s e d s o rn e stn•ngllwning. h1r inslam·,i, Winston Zeddmnore tl•:rni11 lludson), tlw late addition to 
Llw group, holds little purpuse in the schnmn of' llrn plot, lmsidns tlrn f'ar.t that. Im is un unlwli()Ver made hnlicv­('r. And llw f'acl ri•mains that Peter alsll nils this rohi as wnll. 
Tlw nist ol' tlrn l'ilm is 1'ill11d wilh l'amiliar ad.ors, inluding Bill Murray, Sigourney Wnavnr, Dan Aykroyd, Hick Moranus and Harold Hamis, who 111 or t> than a p ti y p u 11 o fl' l h1i co11wdy in many scPtws. while still lnnding an (!nrin suspnnsn to other 
SCCIWS. 
llw only pr-ohlm11 with I.his film is 
Are you funny'f 
because it is loaded with memorable lines. 
Who can ever forget "I've been slimnd," "Don't cross the strnams" or Winston Zeddemorc's sage advice, "Hay! 11· someone asks you if' you're a god, you say yes!" 
Without quotabk littin jewnls such as t!rnse t honestly doubt this film would nver have bef'n so popular. "Ghostbusters" is a hilarious '80s classic, whidi ean still hold its own today. B<1cause of its character dri­v 1i 11 p Io t . m o re p r im iti v e s p e ci a I olTe,:ts are nasily ovHrlooknd, whi!n llw eonwdy and ·one-lint•rs arP sure to lrn noticed and apprnciatnd for years to come. 

Write for Scene! 
'Forces' at the box-office 
Movie Title 
1. 
Forces of Nature 

2. 
Analyze This 

3. 
True Crime 

4. 
Baby Geniuses 

5. 
Cruel Intentions 

6. 
The King and I 

7. 
The Rage: Carrie 2 

8. 
The Corruptor 

9. 
Shakespeare in Love 

10. 
The Deep End of the Ocean 


Source: Associated Press 
Movie Title 
Sandra Bullock (left) and Ben Affleck flexed their muscles at the box-office, as their new romantic comedy, "Forces of Nature," took the number one spot in its debut weekend, with $13.9 million. Also a force at the box-office, "Analyze This" contin• ued its successful run with a $11.2 million take. 

Gross Sales 
$ 13.9 million $ 11.9 million $ 5.3 million $ 4.5 million $ 4.2 million $ 4.1 million $ 3.6 million $ 3.0 million $ 2.8 million $ 2. 7 million 
1. 
There's Something About Mary 

2. 
Ronin 

3. 
Snake Eyes 

4. 
Antz 

5. 
Rounders 

6. 
Rush Hour 

7. 
Practical Magic 

8. 
The Truman Show 

9. 
Soldier 

10. 
Urban Legend 



Source: Billboard Online 


March 26 
Doug's First Movie, TV's animated series moves to the big screen EDtv, starring Matthew McConughey, Jenna Elfman and Woody Harrelson The Mod Squad, starring Clair Danes, Giovanni Ribisi and Omar Epps 

March 31 
The Matrix, starring Keanu Reeves ...
1-4S40 
The Out-of-Towners, starring Goldie Hawn and Steve Martin
(It's tl,e only nu1nl•er you need lo lnow) 
page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, March 22, 1 999 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 



Three top-seeded teams remain 
Battle for Final Four slots begins with women's top seeds still alive in tourney 
Associated Press 
And now. the toughest, most pressure­packed round of all in the NCAA women's bas­ketball tournanrnnt. 
Three No. 1 seerls remain standing among the f1ight teams getting ready for Monday night's regional championship games, which dt'tPrmine who goes to the Pinal Four in San Jose. Calif.. next weekend. 
T1>nrn~ssee coach Pat Summitt has said that becauso a trip to the Final Four is so close, the regional finals are the most difficult games in tlw tournan11•nt. And she knows from expe­rience. 
Last vear, Tennessee had to rally from 12 points ·down to beat North Carolina 7(,-70 in the 
'WE
Mideast finals. The Lady JUST NEED TO GO Saturday night's 82-59 victory over North Carolina. 
Vols then routnd Arkansas 
OUT AND ATTACK 
"We just need to go out andand Louisiana Tech to win WITH THE OFFENSIVE STYLE attack with the offensive style
tlH\ir third straight national championship and finish ~9-WE HAVE,' 
0. 
This year, another Atlantic Coast Conference team stands betwiwn Tennessee and trip to the Final !. our. The top-secdl'd Lady Vols (31-21 play No. 3 seed Duke (27-6) in the East Regional at Greensboro, N.C., and in Summitt's view. survival depends more on mental toughness than talent. 
"We have maintained the commitment to going out and being the best team in March with more or less talent," she said. "You've got to look at your team and look at your opposition and think about how you have to inlluence them. At this time of vear it's a lot about !ming nwntally strong and 0disciplined." 
ThP other No. I seeds still playing arn in the Midwest and West. Top-ranked Purdue (31-1) takes a 29-game winning streak against third­seed nd Hutgcrs (29-5) •in the Midwest at Normal, Ill. In the West at Los Angeles, top­seeded Louisiana Tech (29-2). seeking a 10th Final Four trip. plays No. 3 seed CCLA (26-7). 
Th(~ surprise team at this point is No. 4 seed Iowa State (25-7) in the Mideast. The Cyclones, who had won only one NCAA tour­nament game before this year, play third­seeded Georgia (26-6) in Cincinnati. 
Tennessee and Duke met earlier this year, with Tennessee winning 74-60 in December. Duke coach Gail Goestenkors welcomes the rematch. 
"Whether we want to admit it or not, we wen' a little intimidated going on the floor with them that first game," Gocstcnkors said. "lt took us a half to get through that." 
The Duke player with the biggest challenge is sophomore Georgia Schweitzer, who has to guard All-American Chamique Holdsclaw. Holdsclaw, as usual, has elevated her play in March, scoring 23, 39 and 27 points in her three tournam1>nt gamfls. 
"You just try to keep her from taking over the game," Schweitzer said. 
Purdue will have to crack a tough Rutgers defense to keep its winning streak intact. That defense was sensational in the regional semifi­nals Saturday night, holding Texas Tech to 11 first-half points in a 53-42 victory. 
"Some people play defense out of responsi­bility, because they're supposed to," Rutgers coach Vivian Stringer said. "We embrace it." 
Purdue will counter with its out.standing guard court of Stephanie White-McCarty, 
Ukari Figgs and Kalie Douglas. 
They combined for 63 points in 
we have," Figgs said. "I don·t think we're intimidated by it. We just want to go out and play UKARI FIGGS our game." 
PURDUE PLAYER 
Louisiana Tech faces a UCLA team concerned about the health of point guard Erica 
Gomez, who sprained her right ankle 25 sec­onds into the Bruins' semifinal victory over Colorado State. 
She watched the rest oi' the game from the bench wearing a knee-high walking boot. Freshman Michelle Greco ran the team well in Gomez' absence. 
"We don't really consider her a i'reshman anymore. She loves the pressure," UCLA coach Kathy Olivier said. "The bigger the game, the better she plays." 
Iowa State stunned top-seeded Connecticut 64-58 on Saturday with a flurry ol' 3-point baskets at the end. In Georgia, the Cyclones face an opponent with a crafty coach, Andy Landers, who has won 31 NCAA tournament games and already has made four trips to the Final Four. 
Landers has built the kind of program that Iowa State is trying to become. The victory over Connecticut was a big step in that direc­tion, coach Bill Fennelly said. 
"We have the proof now that we're a decent team," Fennelly said. "We've won 25 games, made it this far and beaten a good team. We have a lot more credibility now. We would love to go and continue to play." 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Spartans rally to \defeat Wildcats 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Call Michigan State ugly or blue~collar if you like. The Spartans also have plenty of heart and more than a .few players, and because of that they're headed to the Final Four. 
The top-seeded Spartans. whotwicetrailed by 13 points earlyin the.g-amo, came back to beat No. 3 seed Kentucky 73­66 in the Midwest Regional final Sunday and ~arn their first. trip to the Final Four in 20 years, 
Michigan State plays Duke next Saturday in the Final Four at St. Petersburg, Fla., while Cot1,necticut plays Ohio State .in the other national semifinal. 
Morris Pete.rson scored 19 points, including six free throws in the final 30 seconds, and had 10 rebounds. Mateen Cfo4ves had tt assists and 10 points. A.J. Granger and Andre Hutson scored· 14 each in Michigan State's 22nd straight victory. And everyone hit the hoards to help the Spartans (33-4) outrehound a Kentucky team that once had a big edge in that department. 
It looked early as though Kentucky {28-9) would be going to its fourth straight Final Four. But the shots stopped falling after the defending champions took leads of 17-4 and 19-6. 
Scott Padgett, who had aver­aged 19 points in the first three tournament games, was a non­factor until hitting two late 3. pointers. And Heshimu Evans weritscorefoss after getting 12 poi.tits in the first 10 minutes. 
Michigan State's first lead, 43~42, didn't come until C ~ hitajy;mper with l5:45 r ..·... ihing i:rt the gatne/The Spartans trailed 50-46 with just over 11 minutes to play, then held Kentucky to one field goal in the next six minutes to. take a 60-54 load. 
Tµey led by sevon twice, the final time 67-60, and Kentucky got no closer than 69-66 on a Padgett 3-pointor with 18.8 seconds to play. Peterson then hit both ends of a one-and-one to seal the victory. and added 
two  more  with  5  seconds  
remaining.  
Evans scored  nine  of  

Kentucky's first 13 points, help­ing the Wildcats run their way to the 17-4 lead with just over seven minutfls played. Hut he only had one basket the rest of the half and watched the final 
5:36 after picking up his second foul. 
He got his third foul three minutes into the second half' and his fourth with 6;25 remaining. 
Michigan State used 3-point shooting and hr,tter rebounding to right itself after Kentucky's blitz. The Spartans. who came in averaging four 3-pointers per game, were 5-of-11 in the half including three by Granger. They wound up 7-of­17 from behind the arc. 
Granger, Jason Klein and Cleaves hit consecutive 3s in the final 1:21 to make it a one­point deficit at halftime. 
Michigan State missed 12 of its first 15 shots hut went lO­for-13 after that. The Spartans also stayed even on the back­boards in the final eight min­utes of the half after falling behind 15-7 in that category. They finished with a 33-29 advantage. 
Michigan State's bench con• tributed 18 first-half points. Granger had nine -all on 3­pointers -and Peterson and scored seven. Kentucky's biggest contributor off the bench was freshman Tayshaun Prince, who scored a dozen ­three more than his total for the tournament. 
The crowd of 42,519 was a record for an NCAA regional. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Part time on-campus  232-2595  LaFortune Student Center  I am proud to announce that prior to  
NOTICES  promotional position. www.2Clix.com, a start up web-site  FOR SALE  631-COPY  mydeparture from South Bend I will be eating sushi. South Bend is  
for college students needs 6 on•  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  famous for its sushi.  
How Green is Green?  campus  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  Fri:  7:30am-7:00pm  
promoters to spread the word about  8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097  NEW Rates Phone Cards  Sat:  Noon-6:00pm  Portugal, need I say more?  
Work in Ireland on a Student  our site. 10-15 hours a week,ftexi­ 282 min. $20 call 258-4805  Sun:  Noon-Midnight  
Work Abroad Program and find out!  ble,$8-$12/hr  BED 'N BREAKFAST  Here comes Peter cotton taill, hop- 
promotional experience  REGISTRY  pin' down the bunny trail ...  
Call 1-888-Council and ask for  helpfulContact: Kevin Leavitt  219-291-7153  Steel bookcase. 7 shelves.  Call  $6 HAIRCUTS  
Tom.  1-877-2clixcom,e-mail to  246-1668  
ILOST & FOUNDI k1eavitt@2clix.com. SUMMER EMPLOYMENT:  Desperate guy Call 4-4586  Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with  Vito's Barbershop 1523 Lincolnway West Closed Sun. and Wed.  I am glad to see that upon the urg­ing of his supportive wife that the worm is back in effect in LA.  
ART EDUCATION  House For Rent  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  Mon,Tues,Thurs,Fri 8-4  
ASSISTANT  4-5 Bedroom  frame.New.never used.still in plas- Sat. 8-3  
Lost: 1 00 CDs that were in a black  SNITE ART MUSEUM.Get  Close to Campus  tic.$235  
CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in  teaching experience while  Includes: Dishwasher,  What are you going to do when you  
LaFortune the night of 2126/99.  making a difference in South  Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove.  219-862-2082  COUNTDOWN TO THE  grow up?  
Monetary reward being offered if  Bend!Assist Education  Remodeling Kitchen in spring.  •• LEWIS CRUSH ••  
found  No questions asked.  Curator with summer youth  RENT REDUCED!  19 DAYS  Just a few more days until reality  
Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any info.  art program focusing on museum objects and art  Call 289-4712  TICKETS  will YOU be invited?  sets in.  
making.June 1-July 30, 15-20  Hi Mot  
..  hours per week. Fine Arts &educa­lion majors with exp  Tri-level 3 bdrm house, 1-112 mi. from campus across from park with  NEED GRADUATION  The Observer: We give guided tours.  Uh1!! Thanks for the chat. later.  See ya'  
LOST: Gold Locket, Oval ­ ti  teaching &/or working with  1-1/2 baths. family room with fire- TICKETS  If we think you're a friend of Revers,  
found: call Victoria, x4659  children preferred.INCLUDES  place, 2-car garage, fenced-in back  Call Kelly @ 243-8932  anyway.  Hello cmullark!  Happy now?  
ROOM & BOARD June 20  yard. AC. stove. refrig, W/D, GID &  
July 30.  DIW. $995/mo. 683-5038 or 232­ 
WANTED  (6120-7/30,addltional Work Study hours-if eligible-with  4527  I need graduation tickets! Call Kelly @243-8932  Life Is Beautiful was robbed. Best Picture all the way.  I hate the Kentucky Wildcats and I am glad to see that they lost. It  
National Youth Sports  New 3-4 bdrom home for lease.  didn't mess up my bracket.  
SUMMER CAMP JOBS  Program~or total 40 hrs/wk if desired)CALL ASAP for  Fireplace, family room, 2-car garage, 2 full baths. All deluxe  PERSONAL  Do you not love it when things w,11 not print and the clock is ticking?  I picked Creighton to win the whole  
LAND/WATER SPORTS  application form 631-4435  appls. A/C. $1200/mo. 232-4527 or  thing.  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS/  App. deadline April 6.  683-5038.  Kessler dominated.  
LAKE PLACID  Fax it fas1 at THE COPY SHOP in  I enjoy moonlit walks on South  
VISIT US www.raquettelake.com  5/6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM- LaFortune. FAX Sending and  Buongiorno. Princ,pessa!  Quad. How about you?  
1·800·786·8373  FOR RENT  PUS. FURN. 272·6551  Receiving : 631-FAX 1  Sorry to hear about the girl probs.  I like mine with lettuce and tomato.  
,  Babysitter needed in my  WALK. TO SCHOOL  2 blks. from campus. 4-5 bdrm  When you need copies .  Yo quiero Taco Bell'  Soon Structures will be over and all  
home.Flexible day time hours.Call 243-5540.  2-6 BEDROOM STARTING $185  home. fireplace. 1o· ceilings $650/mo. available now.  We're OPEN!!!  What am I still doing here.  will be right with the world.  
MONTH/PERSON  Call Jason @289·4365  THE COPY SHOP  

r---------------~----------------~--­
-..----ir-r,--. • • w=z
.. 
. . 
Monday, March 22, 1999 page 15
The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-


being
........ ';:;;:;-:•.»:•;•.:·.·••. 


..., 


What does the Church say and not say about homosexuality? 

page ,16 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, March 22, 1999 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL
-

Duke topples Temple, 85-64 
Blue Devils secure 12th Final Four appearance 
Associated Press 
EAST HUTIIFHFOKD. N.J. 
Dukl, is where rverybody rxpectPd it to be this season, ~ind wherl' tlw Blun DPvils haven't brnw since 1994 -the Final hrnr. 
"It's grt'at to lw at thP lm•t->I Dukn lias lw1rn an<l wP'rc bark tlwrr. again.·· sophomorP cen­trr Elton Brand said Sunday after the 85-64 victory over six1h-sl•cded Temple in the Jiast Hcglona! final. 
The nation ·s top-ranked
.....­
tt•am is closing thi> dPcade where it was almost evr.ry VPar al !hi' start of the '90s. · Tho Blue Dc·vils (36-ll Pxtendr.d their school-record winning str<>ak to 31 games and will bt) making their 12th Final Four appearance -the nighth under l'oach Mike Krzyzmvski. 
On Saturday, in St. 
Petersburg, Fla., Duke plays Michigan State, which beat Kentucky 73-66 to win the Midwest Regional. The Blue DBvi!s beat the Spartans 73-67 in December in the Great Eight. 
Duke was in the final Four from 1990-92 and again in I994, winning the national championship in 1991 and 1992. 
"It's been a long time com­ing and it's something I haven't experienced," fifth­year senior Trajan Langdon said. "Coming into this game I knew it was my last chance to go to the Final Four." 
Langdon, a second-team All­America. did something about it with an impressive shooting display against Temple's famed matchup zone defense, going 5-for-6 from 3-point range and finishing with 23 points. 
"He is as pure a shooter as I've seen in college basket­ball." Temple coach John Chaney said. 
The loss deprived Chaney of his first trip to the Final Four. It was the fourth time he had a team in tlrn regional final and it was third time he lost that game in Continental Airlines Arena. 
Tho first of those was to Duke in 1988. and Temple. which has been to two Final Fours, th<' last in 1958. lost to North Carolina there in 1991. 
This tournament run was tlw least likely for Chancy. 
"Just being here a fourth time is a tnim<'ndous honor as for as I'm concerned,'' Chaney said. ''This ranks up there as one of th,, best ;ind thesn kids are going to win and win and win." 
Tho rnatchup zone employed by llrn 67-year-old coach kept the game close for a while. Rut Duke. the heaviest tournament favoritn since UNLV in 1991, had too manv answers. 
There was"the outside shoot­ing of Langdon. the inside powPr of Elton Brand and the athlnticism of one of the nation's del'pest 1.Patns. 
It was all too much for Temple (24-11 l. 
"Our teams are similar hut his has better athletes," Chan1,y said. referring to Krzyzewski. "I just bopP who­ever plans to beat them believPs in the Lord." 
The Owls were hit with their worst loss of the season, allowed more than 55 points for the first time in this tour­nament and gave up the most points by a Chaney-coached team in 15 NCAA tournament appearances. 
Brand, the onlv unanimous first-team All-America, bad 21 points and eight rebounds. The Blue Devils, second in the nation in field goal percentage at 51.6. shot 60 percent (27­for-45). 
Mark Karcher and Lamont Barnes each had 19 points for Temple. which shot 38 percent (25-for-65). 
Temple got within 64-54 with 10:26 to play on a 3­pointer by Karcher. That may not seem close, but the Blue Devils had won their tourna­ment games by an average of 33 points and their 26. l aver­age margin of victory is tops in the country. 
Duke, which leads the nation averaging 93.2 points per game, came right back with an 11-2 run, the last four points coming on a power dunk and nice low post move by Brand and the lead was 75-56 with 
5:51 to play. 
"I thought we were playing to keep a margin," Krzyzewski sairl. "We held them a couplo of timcis aud I felt coming in that how W<l defended them would be thr most important aspect of the game. If we play well on the defensive, end it lwlps us offensively." 
Temple's last lead was 1 l-10 with 13 1/2 minutes left in the half. Langdon then hil the sec­ond and third or his three straight 3s to start a 12-0 run a.nd suddenly the zoue had lo cxtcncl. 
The Owls did get within 30­23 with 3 1/2 minutes left on a 3-pointer by Mark Karcher, hut a 6-0 run over the next minute had the lead back to 11. 
The Blue Dcvil.s put the exclamation point on the first half when freshman Corey Maggettc t1ew into sight and dunked the rebound or a missed 3-pointer by Avery to make it 4:i-31. 
"You don't gPt a chance to play for 1.he national champi­onship until you get to the Final Four," Krzyzcwski said. "~ow we cau talk about win­ning the national. champi­onship." 

OhlO St. 72-64 

Duke 78-61 
National Championship 
· Ohio S1. 77-74 
Duke 85-64 
St_ Petersburg, Florida March 29 9'.18 p.m. 
St. John's 76-62 Temple 77-SS. 
NATIONAL CHAMPION
St. Petersburg. 
Florida · March 27 30 min. after 
tirst game 
Connecticut 7-8-€8 
Connecticut 67-62 
St. Petersburg, Florida March 27 5:42 p.m. 
Michigan State 54-46 
Michigan State 73-66 
Gonzaga 73-72 Kentucky 58-43 

AIJ times EST 
DON'T MISS OUT ON A FRENCH OR SPANISH CLASS IN FALL 1999! 


z:ca:= =­
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Junior James Gaither finished his NCAA competition with an overall record of 11-12, plac­ing 14th in men's epee and leading the Irish to a second place finish. 
Monday, March 22, l 999 

Fencing 
continued from page 24 
fiin•d agui11st Smart was falllty nquip­mn11L. Szc\llP had wiro{I his sword wrong sn that wlwn lw parriPd Smart,'s altacks with his Wt'upon, t.lw scoring system still ,.,,gi.'>ll'rNI a toud1. IL wa:-; not until latll in tlw bout that !w dis1:nv1ffPd this error. 
l·:quip11wnt prohlt\ms asidP, Szcllc :;till f'n11rf'd his worst nHttch of t!w day against Smart. 
"I was v1•ry llat," lw said."! didn'l fonn• w<•II. 11,, had a strange tPmpo and I wasn't adjusting to it WPII." 
J;c\spiW tilt· disappointing loss i11 tlw finals. S1l'llc-'s pPrforman<'I' was still n•111arkabl1· !"or a l'rPshman i'<·11n·r. llis sc-1·01uf plac-1' linisl1 was th<\ h<~sl hy an Irish l'rl•shmat1 sirn·p Walsh linishnd Sl'C• c11HI lwr lh•shma11 war. 111 his lirst NCAA app<•ara1ll'P. SzPII~· w11s tlrn only N11trr. lla111,• frn<·,·r Lo win nrst-t<iam All­.,\nwrit"an h1111nrs. 
Tiu• sahri' U1am's J2 points -1iv11 morn than anv otlwr tPam -ronlirnwd lhaL !llPir urn·J,.fi•.ilr•d dual-lJlPPI n•cord was no l111kf' and tllat thP Irish had LhP top sabre 1,·am in !hf' ,·01111Lry. 
llw 1'11il !Pillil 111ad1· tl11• most drumat.ir 1urrH1rnt11HI 1111 1-'ridav. J\l'lvr Thmsdavs 1·n111pPtitio11...\uriol ..ind llayPs l'ourid th<•111sPl\·ps in 17th anci 14th place with mt!v IO tot.al wi11s in four rounds. 
/\ rompll'Ll'ly diff,•ri•nt !\iii squad stl'pfwd onto th!• slrips for rounds 11vc Ihni11gh SPV!'ll. I layPs won live of his liw of his nin1• houts and /\uriol won six of' 11irw as Ow salm· squad rnllind to finish s!'Vf'11tlt and s1·orl'd 21 points for tlw ll'illil. Al llw l'JIJ8 dwmpionships, lhn foil t.Paill manag-Pd to sc11n• only 15 poinl-i. 
"It fj,Jt good lo ,•ml tlw tourna11rnnl Oil an ll(HHllP... Stcph,uu• said. "IL could have h1•1•n 1•asil'I' for us to giv1• up." 

Junior .Janws Gaillwr and fnishman lfria11 Casas madt• tlwir NCi\A dPbuts for tlw Irish llll 1-'ridav aftPrnoon as the• nwn's "PPP rn111p1•lition "iwgan. 
(;;litlwr':-; tourna111P11l was marked by irl!'o11sisl1•1wv. (Ip dPl'PalPd many of tlw top 1'1•1H·«'rs ~vhil<' also !'ailing to·weakPr f'1•nrt•rs. In llllf' of thP highlights of the lournanwnt. Caitlwr brokP through St. .lohn ·s !Joroll L,•vit's arrog-ant styln lo srnrt• a thrilling victory. Whill' I.evil 
were strong, had good style and fought hard." 
Following a red card that cost lior the match against lleidi Triggs of Air Force, Krol reeled off nine straight wins. Krol. howevr.r. claims that the red card did not inspire her to fonce slronger. 
"I put the red card behind me." Krol said. "I always try to l'ocus on one bout at a timn and not worry about other bouts." 
Krol. a _junior, finished eighth in the tournampnl win 14 wins. She earned All-American honurs for the third straight year. 
Muslilli closed her Irish earner with a fifth place l'inish and lrnr straight All-American award. She posted 15 wins on the day and fell just short of qualilying for thr. smnifi­nals. She entered round sPven with a chance to qualify, but the previous six rounds had taken their toil on the senior captain and she was com-
The Observer• SPORTS 
danccid and socnrnd to taunt Gaither with his relaxnd attitudel, Gaither dominated the bout and mnbarrassed Lovit bv scor­ing a too-touch. • 
"For sornn mason I was able to bnut all tlw top guys and bornbnd against guys I should have lrna.t," ho said. "Som11 guys just had my number today and somo didn't. But I also think I l'ell into tho Notre l>am11-stigma or playing down to an oppo­nent's lc•w•I." 
Gaither poslnd an 11-12 record and lin· islwd in 14th placn overall. Casas -fnnc­ing in tlw championships in his first year of coHcgiutr, compotition -had an excd­lent tournamenL. IIo llirtnci with the top l'our spots through six rounds bef'orr. dropping two bouts in round :mven to fall out or con1.(\11t.io11 for a spot in the snmifi­nab. Ile won 14 bouts and placed l'ighth ovnrall in tlw npon tournanwut. llo joinnd l'ldlow frnshman Sw!IP 011 tho All­!\nmrican list for his performance. 
The epnc team oarnnd 25 points for tho lrish and finislrnd fifth ov,~rall. 
Women's Foil 
The wonrnn ·s comp1itition lwgan on Saturday with thn Irish still trailing l'mrn Stat<i by a larg<• margin. Only a p<~rfoct pnrf'ornrnnc1i by tlw WOllll'il and a coi­lapsn hy l'Pnn Stall' ('<ll1ld savn thn tit IP for llw Irish. Tlw Irish l'cncPd vPry strongly and l'mm Stat!\ did stumhlc~d a bit. Notrn Dame> 111anagPcl to dosP tlrn gap to a morn spvn n-poin ts !all• Sal urd ay al'tn rnoon lloforn Penn Stat,• pulled away 011 Sunday. 
Th<! disappointm!'nt of losing any d1a1Jce at a titlP llurt tlw wonrnn's drive a hit on Sumiav. 
"It's hard \'vlwn vou realize that vou arc not going tn win 1.ts a tnam," said foilist Myriah Brown who nariwd /\11-/\mnrican honors for tlrn fourth consecutive year. "IL was dillicult to losn your reason that you wore foncing. It is tough to group and start foncing for individual honors and to maintain second place rather than light­ing l()r first." 
Brown and follow foilist Walsh teamed to cam :{2 points for the Iri:;h, good for fourth place ov,mtll. 
Walsh finished fifth in the tournament. Sim tiod with fourth placr. Yelena Kalkina with 19 wins but lost the ti<~-breaker on indicators 59-44. She just barely missed becoming the lirst Irish fencer to qualify for Lim sflmilinals in all four ynars of' com­petition. 
Brown linislrnd 11 l.h overall with 13 wins. She named also cwrncd All­r\merican honors for the fourth time in her carper. 
Brown and Walsh closed their earners as the most prolific womnn's foil combi­nation in Irish history. The two combined for 522 victories and eight All-American awards. Brown is the Irish earner leadPr in foil wins while Walsh stands in third. They hold four of the 10 best single-sea­son foil records and single season winning percentage. They are only two of only three women's fencers to earn All­J\mcrican honors for the Irish four times. 
Women's Epee 
The women's epee team also performed well at the tournament "We fenced very well today," three-time All-American Magda Krol said. "We 

p!etcly exhausted. F1mcing valiantly against Urn strong J'pnn State eper~ team, she still dropped lrnr first two bouts. 
Mustilli. however rallied in twr linal bout against Meghan GasPor or Northwestern. Feeding off the energy of the crowd and an inner strength that had gllided her to 304 canrnr wins, she defeated Gaseor to close her earner with a win. 
Mustilli is the second winning-most woman fencer in Irish historv. She also owns the distinct honor of m\'l{ing records in both epee and foil. FPnting foil lwr freshman ynar, slw won (}) bouts and still stands 10th in singl<'·SPason wins and seventh in earner winning pPrcPntag<!. She made thn transition to PpPe hPr sophomore ynar and distinguislwd lwrself' · as one of tlrn top Irish PpPPists or all-tinw. Iler 235 earner PPP<' wins an· good for second all-time and slw has tlw tllird-iwst winning 1wrcentago 111 Irish history. 
Despitn all thl' imlividual acromplish­mnnts ol'the Class of JlJ<J'J. tlw f'ourth straight second plarn finish was still a bit­tnr pill to swallo\\'. 
"WP. could hav<~ 1'1mcml lmttrn·," Brov,;n said. "It's not the ending I hoped for." 
"We could have won NCi\i\s wilh tiw talent we haV!\," LaVall,• said. "We have some nrnnta! problnm with out nwntat psyche. We am lacking so11wthing nwn­tally to win tlw tournanwnl." 
C~rnch Auriol. who has alwa vs callPd this snnior class a "spPrial rlitss," 1'1dt that tlw titlP was just not mnanl to l)I' this year. 
"Last ypar wn missl'd th!' opportunity to win nationals," lw said. "l'Pnn Statn was just too strong this ypar. I know that it is hard for tbn seniors to finish second again. But this just wasn't our year." 
Fencing Championship Results 

Penn State 171 Points Notre Dame -139 Points Stanford -136 Points Princeton -118 Points 
The Observer/Kevin Oalum 
Senior captain Nicole Mustilli finished filth in the epee competition for Notre Dame. 

Monday, March 22, 1999 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ BASEBALL 


Pitching leads team to doubleheader victory 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Spons Ediror 
Behind strong pit<.:hing per­formances from Aaron Heilman and Tim Kalita, the Notre Dame baseball team swept Saturday's doublehead­er with West Virginia (6-9) and improved to 11-6 on the sea­
son. 
The Irish took the lirst game 4-1 and followed it up with a 6-4 victory in tlrn nightcap. The third game of the series was scheduled for Sunday, but was cancelled due to inclement weather. 
"Any time you come out of 
West Virginia with two wins, 
it's an accomplishment," junior 
shortstop Brant List said. 
"They have a history of playing 
us tough, but it was nice to gf\t 
off to a good start in Big East 
play." 
Heilman went the distance in the first game, allowing just one run and striking out nine, while walking none. The sophomore righthandcr faced just four batters over the mini­mum and scattered three hits over seven innings. 
"Dominating is the one word 
I'd use to describe his perfor­
mance on Saturday," Ust said. 
"I le's probably one of the few 
pitchers in the country who 
you can give a one or two run 
lead to and feel confident that 
he'll shut down the opponent." 
West Virginia's Lewis Ross 
( 1-1) droppfld the decision, giv­
ing up four earned runs and 
nine hits over seven innings. 
Freshman conterfielder Steve 
Stanley niachcd on a bunt sin­
gle in the first inning and later 
scored the first Irish run on a 
groundnut by sophomore Alec 
Porzel. 
West Virginia tied it up in the 
bottom of the inning behind 
singltis from Nate Reese and 
Travis Pitt.man, but Heilman 
shut down the Mountaineers 
the rest of the wav. 
Notrn Dame sci'ired a run in 
the fifth. sixth and seventh 
innings to give tlrn Irish the 4-1 
victory. In the fifth inning. 
Stanley hit a shot up the mid­
dle, driving in fr1\shman catch­
er Paul O'Toole. Bushey sin­
gled to start the top of the 
sixth and advanced to third on 
Pot7PI's double down the Icft­
f'ic l d lino, Designated hitter 
Matt Nussbaum 's sacrifice 11y 
drove in Bushey and pushed the Irish lead to 3-1. 
Bushey drove in the final run of the afternoon, when he sin­gled in O'Toole, who led off the inning with a single. 
In the nightcap, Kalita (2-1) went eight innings to earn the victory for the Irish. He allowed four runs on seven hits and two walks, while equaling his career high with lO strike­outs. 
Junior righthander John Corbin struck out two in the ninth and notched his third save of the season. 
WVU's Jeremy Cummings took the loss and dropped to 0­4 on the season. 
All-American Ust provided some fireworks in the top of the first when he tagged Cummings' 1-2 pitch over the left-centerfield fence. Tho two­run blast was his eighth of the season and 37th of his career -tying him for second on Notre Dame's all-time list. 
West Virginia got one back in the bottom of the inning. but Notre Dame blew the game open with a three-run third. 
Stanley reached on a walk and advanced to third on a sin­gle by Bushey. West Virginia's Todd Brock then robbed Porzel on a grounder down the third base line. but Stanley scored. Ust drew an intentional walk and Jeff Felker delivered a two-strike single to left center, but Bushey was gunned down at the plate by Mountaineer outfielder Matt McGee. Nussbaum, however, drilled a shot up the middle to score Ust and Felker. 
"We scored when we needed to," said Ust. "We had a 5-J lead for most of the second game, but we need to work on putting a team away. I think that will come when guys get used to being in RBl situa­tions." 
West Virginia tacked on three in the seventh when Hoeser homered off Kalila, but Notre Dame's Jeff Peconte added some insurance in the ninth with an RBI single. 
The Irish were solid in the field and didn't commit and error in either game. 
Notre Dame has now won seven straight ball games and will look to push that streak to eight when they take on Western Michigan at home on 
r----------------, 

-or-DROP OFF SPECIAL $.65/LB (reg $.75/LB -or-
FREE SOAP ON TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS ONLY 
Lim,r one coupon f>er person per 1·i.l·it. Coupon 11111.11 be presented w redeem offer. qffcr expires ..//4/99 
• 
Portage Street Laundry 
1469 Portage Avenue -South Bend 

232-7234
L ________________ J 
season underway at homo," to play on our lield, be in our
Tuesday. "Weather permitting, we're said Ust. "We have a big hom(~­dugout, and get Urn Eck season looking forward to getting the stand in April, so it'll be good going." 
DISABILITYAWARENESS WEEI( AT NOTRE DAME MARCH 24-26, 1999 
Wednesday,March24th 
Simulation Day 
Spend the day discovering what it's like to live with a disability. Discuss your experiences over dinner with other participants and students with real disabilities. 
Call Rosie McDowell at 289-4831 by Tuesday, March 23rd to register. 
Thursday, March 25th 
Life after ND 
Discussion with Lori Miller, a '97 grad, about her experiences in the academic and athletic worlds after leaving Notre Dame. 
7:00 pm Office for Students with Disabilities, Badin Hall 
Friday, March 26th 
DAW Dance 
Dance the evening away to great music with members of LOGAN's recreation program and members of the Saturday Rec student group. 
Vans leave library circle for LOGAN Center at 7:00, 7:30 & 8:00 pm. Vans return to ND 10:00 pm. 
DAW Essay Contest 
Express Yourself 
Submit entries to the Center for Social Concerns reception desk no later than 5:00 pm Thursday, March 25th. Winning essay to be published in Scholastic Magazine on April I st. Cash prizes awarded to top three entries. See complete guidelines at Center for Social Concerns. 
DISA ~ILITY.AWARENESS WEEK IS CO-SPONSORED BY 1HE CENTER FOR SOCIAL Cc JNCERNS, THE OFFICE FOR STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES, THE EDNA 1<. MILLER FOUNDATION AND LOGAN. 

Monday, March 22, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page I 9 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 






Belles drop three matches 
Saint Marys falls 
victim to tough 
Division I foes 
By ANGELA FOX Spom Wrircr 
Ttw Saint Mary's tennis tBam stariml off th(~ir s1rn.son agai11~1 l1H1gh cornpn(.il ion from sonH' Division I srhools. Ov1•r br11ak, Saint Mary's trav­1•l1•d lo Arizonn for matche::; against Nortlrnrn Illinois, Butler Uniwrsity and Walsh. 
Allhough thl' Belles lust against all threo sc.hools. play­ing against a highor division gavn the players some great llxpnrinn<'o, ac('ording to tlrn playrrs. 
"All thrt'e teams offered rnally good comp11titio11." said senior captain Katin Vales. "It n•illly lrnlped prnpare us for tlw SNISon." 
Saint Mary's continued its 
season aguinst DePauw University. losing 3~6. Dospito the loss, some individuals p:re­vailed over thflir opponents. Senior Betsy Gemmer won at No. 4 singles, as did junior Krista Eastburn at No. 6 sin­gloti. Thr. No. 1 doubles team 
'ALL THREE TEAMS 
OFFERED REALLY 
GOOD COMPETITION,' 
KATIE VALES SEN[()R WOMEN'S TENNL<; CAVTA!N 
of Vales and freshman Annie Knish won in a tle-breaker, 9­
8. Knish said that after they both lost their singles match­es, tlrny came out with the altitude that they had nothing to lose. They tried to be 
aggressive and get focused early on. · 
Satu.rd.ay> Saint Maty's had an enormous vh:tory over Dl~fiance Co!lege. This was their first conference match and the Belles won 9-0. The singles winners were No. 1 Vales (6-0, 6-1), No. 2 Knish (6·0, 6-0), No. 3 Becky Kremer (6-0, 6-1), No. 4 Gemmer (6-1, 6-0), No. 5 Taylor Jarrih f6-0, b·0) a.nd No. 6 Eastb1\rn (6-1, 6-0). 
Thr. doubles teams seem to 
be coming together now that they have played more togeth· er and are developing stratfl­gics. The doubles winners were No. 1 Vales/Knish (6-0, 6-0). No. 2 Kremor/Gom.mnr (6-2, 6-0), and No. 3 Ja.rrin/Eastburn (6-1, 6·2). Next Snturday Snlnt Mary's will play at Adrian College, whom they defeated last year 9-0. Vales said with a stronger team they should expect they same results. 

¦ fox SPORTS ••• ALMOST 




NCAA tournament frustrates fanatic 
By TED FOX 
Spom Writer 
Back at the end ofJanuary, I wrote an article about rmm's NCM March Madness only being a little over a month away. Even thrn, I was pretty excited. 
Maybe you just thought I couldn't think of anything bet­ter to write about. That is, ii' you're one of the few people besides my parents and mo who actually romembors I wrote that column. 
But pretend for a minuto you do remember. To many of you, writing about this tournamnnt so far in advance may have seemed, to borrow a phrase from Dan Patrick and Keith Olbermann when (hey usPd to co-host ESPN's Sportsccntcr. like a bit of "premature jocular­
ity." 
Not surprisingly, at least to those who fol­low collogn hoops, that has not turnr.d out to be the case. 
On the contrary, the first two wer.ks or this year's March march lo tlrn Final Four have proven once again that no amount ofjocularity concerning what must ho the best nvrnt in all of' sports can lWer lw premature. 
flow do I know this'? 
Bocaus(1 I spenl tlw first weekend of this y,mr's tourney bning jusl aboul as l'rustral(id as I could b1\, as I watched my predicted winners seemingly nvery game lose. 
It startrid with Gonzaga over Minnesota. a mild upset of a 10 smid over a seven which was playing without four of its players. 
Jlowever. in the course of tlrn next two days, every othnr I 0 soed -Purdue, Creighton, and Miami of Ohio -all won. Of' course, I didn't pick oml of them to make it out ol'the opPning 
round. 
That mad1, it 1wnn more fun wlwn thrnP of these four (all but Creighton) won again ov<'r thn wnnkPncl and made it to tlw Swnnt 
16. But it didn't taktl mo that long lo ligurn out that any chancll I had to bn a· pn1fessirn1­al ocldsmakPr was ,waporating bd'orc my vnry eyes. 'Jo. that hap­pmwd lwfon• till' wnnk­
,ind oven startPd. 
You see, in tho procnss or con­ducting my rigorous scinntific approach to chooso tlrn winnnrs of all 6'.~ ganrns. I sonrn how came up with a Final Four of Duke, i\rizona. Maryland, and North Carolina. 
Despite tlw fact that. this Final Four includnd thrnn teams from the ACC. it still S<H•mml snmi­reasonablo. It consistocl of a orn~. two, thrnn, and f'our se1id, which is realistic and still accounts for upsnts. 
or courso, tlrnso picks wnro madn lwforo I had lhe hmrnfit of watching the games. Ilnrnin lies tlrn probl!m1. 
North CaroliJJa, the number three seed in my group, lost to Weber Statn. tlrn fourtnen semi, in the first round. 
Oops. 
Tho next night. Arizona, the number four in thP group. lost a 61-60 nail-hit1ir to tlw numlwr thirtnen Soonnrs of Oklahoma. 
Whoops. 
Maryland at least made it to the Sweet l f> bnforn bowing out to St. John's, salvaging a littln, albeit hardly any, respnrt for my bracket -which by this limn had quitn a f'nw Xs on it. 
I hadn't nvon picked l>ukn, my only Final Four tnam still stand­ing, to mak(l it to tlw titlP ganw, basically bncausn I got sick of Pveryonn !Piling nw tlw trophy was aln•ady tlrnirs. That just bugs nw. 1•s1wdally as a North Carolina fan. 
And yPt, this tournanwnt has henn a blast so far for nm. I don 'l have lo worry about checking my pirks anymorn. I can just watch tlrn ganws, Pnjoy the baskntball, and root for tlw upsets and tlw nxcitPmPnl that comn with tlrnm. which rannol be matchml. 
This makPs !'or a grnat t.our­nanrnnt. 
Most or all, I can sit bark now and wait for somnonn to beat thn Dukies. It's my last chancP al rndnmption. I still maintain someone's going lo do it lwforp this tournament is ov1•1-. nvnn though (Wnryorw you ask would IPL tlwm cut down Llw 1wts tnday il' tlwy ('ould. 
Maybn by tlw tinw this is printed, TPmplP will haw prown nw right. And if not tlwm, mw of tlw tPams al'tPr tlwm. 
Watching how all this ,\'ill play out is providing for annth­Pr awPsonw Marrh. 
And tlw thought of my rt•dmnption makPs nw happy. 
Of c«HtrSP, that could hP an insta1H'P of pn•n11tturt• jorulari­ty. But I don't think so. 
Tlw of)i11io11s t'X/Jf't'SS<'rl in this column arl' tho:•w <l /hi' u11tlwr and 1111I ll<'<'1'ssarily /hos/' <if' '/11(' Obs1•r1'1•r. 
Got time? 
The Observer sports department is currently looking for sports copy editors and sports production. These are paid positions. If interested in applying please call 1-4543. 
THE PERFECT COUPLE. NOW JUST $1.99. 
Right nOI.V, America's Favorite B~r.cir WHOPPER:and a medium order ofthe KING OF FRIES'" are only $1. 99. Hurry in, hecause although they're perfect together, this deal won't last a lifetime. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
BURGER 
KING It just tastes better."" 
FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY 
C 1gg.9 BURGER KING COR?ORATION THE BURGER KING COR?ORATION IS THE EXCLUSIVE LICENSEE OF THE KING OF FRIES ANO "IT JUST TASTES BETTER 
TRADEMARKS AND THE REGISTERED WHOPPER ANO BUN HALVES LOGO TRADEMARKS 
www.burgerking.com 
-
page 20 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, March 22, 1999 

Abortion, euthanasia and capital 
punishment demean the lives of 
countless individuals in our society. 
Gather with us in Eucharistic 
Adoration to prax for an end 
to the culture of death. 

"J 11zal,e a holy hour each day in the presence of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters of the Missionaries of Chan·ty mal?e a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through 01tr daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes 111ore intimate, our lo've for each otlzer more understanding, and our love for the poor more compassionate... " 
1 ;; 

-Mother Teresa 

Spon~ored hy Noire Dame Righi 10 Life AMlJC • !Ml 
Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers 
that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of 
death, it is easy for people to become weary anJ indifferent to Cod 
and His gift of life. Peo·ple often fall short of their obligation to care 
for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­
ers. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nu11ure 
his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others 
(through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euth,rnasia and 
other forms of violence. It is only through the grace which 
comes-from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from 
seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press 
on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service 
to preserve life, we must be filled with I-lis life through prayer. 
We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
Gr,d is present to us in many ways in our worl<l, but l-le is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics. we bdievc that Jesus Christ, who liveJ 2000 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In E.ucharistiL Adoration, the I lost is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to crnrw anJ pray. Jesus is always liiddcn in the tabernacle, but in adoration lie is exposed so that we can come and kn(:d before llim, face to face, and speak with Go<l. When lesus is exposed like this, He can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsible to come anJ pray with Him for a certain amount of time {usually 1/ r 1 hour) every week 
Why should I go? 
If Jesus were to come to the )ACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here 011 campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE 0PPORTUNl1Y TO GO AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with 1-lim, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, !-le will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. ll is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one (like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sil, or kneel-whatever helps you pray. An<l then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritunl reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk lo Jesus­like you would to a friend. The most important thing is that you love llim and allow 
Him to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 
"Exposition of t/Ie Blessed Sacrament, whether in a pyx or a monstrance, is a recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the 5acrament and slimulates us to unite ourselves LO Him in a spiritual comm1111io11. IL is, accorJing11; eminenllv i11 harmony with the worship which we owe I-Jim in spirit and truth ... " 
-1'0~1-Co11ciliar (Va1ican II) Oocumcnt, S.C,O.W. 
EUCHARJSTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
FRIDAY: Lady Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11 :30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4:15pm. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11:30pm (following 11:00pm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45-Jn·OOpm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 

page 21
Monday, March 22, 1999 The Observer •SPORTS 
lims of each cvnnt returned to
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
score p!lints in the finals. The
Swim 
Irish experienced many nnar misses to scon\; five swims and
continued from page 24

Padres' Brooks earns first hit 
one set of dives were within 
As,uciatcd Press 
Mark McCwirn and Sammy Srnrn are making this spring snrnn a lol like last summ11r. 
~cGwirn and Sosa each hit Llwir eighth home runs Sunday to remain tind for tlw spring training 11\ad. McGwirn's two­run shot came off A.J. Burnett in Lhc third inning of th11 St. Louis Cardinals' I0-4 loss to Florida Marlins split squad. 
Sosa's thrno-run homer c·.amo in the sccond inning of the Chicago Cubs' Hl-7 loss to the San Francisco Giants at Mmm, Ariz. 
"lle's niady, I'm rnady. He's ).(ol to do a job, l'v1i got to do a joh," Sosa said. 'Tor me, it donsn't tako too long to get rnudy. l'vn lwen rnlaxcd and patient at hornn plate and that's helping mP not to swing at pitdws I shouldn't be swinging at." 
Mcianwhilci, New York Yanknes manager Joe Torre wafi releasnd from Barnes­.Jewish Hospital in St. Louis. According to pathology reports, his cancer was limited to his prostate gland and there is no trace ol' the disease in the lymph nodes. 
Ile~ is not expected to rejoin tho team for 6-to-12 weeks, but he will head to Florida to recu­perate, according to family friend Jeff Wehling. 
"lie wants to be near tlrn team. but he also thought it would be better to be there because the weather is much warmer than in New York, and he can get out and do his walk­ing," Wehling said. 
Al Port Charlotte, Fla., the Texas Hangers said reliever John Wetteland may start the season on the disabled list. WPtteland has been slowed by an ankle injury last month and muscle spasms in his lower back. 
"The dnlivery that I saw on Thursday. I didn't like it at all," manager Johnny Oates said. "He just can't push off on that ankle well enough for me." 
At Dunedin, Fla., the Hoston Bed Sox said shortstop Nomar Garciaparra won't return to the team until at least Wednesday while he undergoes tests on in California on his injured right elbow. 
"Ile just needs to get checkfld out now," Heel Sox manager Jimy Williams said Sunday. 
At Peoria. Ariz., Country singer-turned-baseball playflr Garth Brooks got his first hit of spring training, singling up the middle off Mike Sirotka in the San Diego Padres' 11-8 loss to the Chicago Whitn Sox. It was his 10th plate appearance. 
"I bet that base hit to him 
means more than if he sells 
another million records," Padres 
general managflr Kflvin Towers 
said. 
Three of those also re-wrote NCM and meet records. 
"We expected it to be competi­tive, but every time you walk in there you have all those fast peo­ple swimming," Kline said of the nation's fastest meet. "No matter how much you prepare yourself for it, it's still so fast." 
Kline emphasized that qualify­ing twice as many swimmers as the previous soason made for more team spirit. She also notes that seven out of eight team members will return to the team next year. 
One of the biggest challenges for the women was to keep being successful after winning the Big East Championship meet with a record-high score. 
"We had a tremendous Big East [championship meet], and to repeat those performances is a difficult task," Barger said. 
"It was hard because we swam 
so well at Big East, so we didn't 
swim as well as we hoped, but 
overall I think we did pretty . 
well," Kline said. 
The top 16 finishers in the prn­three placl!s of making finals. 
This includes Lim 200 fhrnstyle relay and Klinll's 100 breast­stroke, hoth of which placr.d 17th. I lcmther Mattingly. Notrn Dame's first divnr to qualify for the meet, plaC(!d I8th on thn three-metnr board with ]78.10 points. 
With the 1998-99 snason hr.hind thnm, t11am members sen it as an ovr.rall success. 
"I think we made trmnendous leaps," Bargr.r said. "We beat teams we hadn't blmten bnforn. and team unity is the best l'vr. ever sefln." 
"This has been a big break­through year for us," Nixon said. "We had a really good season, peo_ple worked hard. and it paid 
oIT. 
They realirn, lrnw11vm. that not all their goals were accom­plished. For Nixon, the NCAA meet is "something to learn from for next yFmr." 
"We have a talentod freshman class coming in, and that's excit­ing to think about." Barger said about next Sl!ason. 

tat1.,,n,;uq.1 
~ ---------WHY NOT..II 
Notre Dame 
Unt,,.•rslty
~, 
Birthplace: Roma, Queensland
.Notrr u,un.c
Graduation 
Favorite Lager: Foster's Nickname: "The Mate" 
'1ust give the bloody thing a try-­ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
--Fr. Wilson D. Miscamble, C.S.C., 180, 187, Dept. of History 
For more information on Holy Cross' one-year
available 
Candidate Program 
Phone, mail, lax orders: 
Balfour PCA Dept. 
contact: 
7101 lntermodal Drive 
Bldg. A Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or 
Louisville, KY 40258 
Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
1.800.899.8205 
Place orders in person on:
fax 1.800.400.8189 1-6385 
Tues., Wed., March 23 & 24 
vocation. l@nd.edu 
LaFortunc Student Center Sorin R.00111, 9:30 am -4:30 pin 
.. ---~ FOLLOW HIM .... ? 

!PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER.\ 
Turtle Creek Apartments 
is happy to announce that we have a few townhomes available for the 1999-2000 school term! 

That's right! Due to under-estimations on our behalf, a select few two bedroom townhomes are still available! 
These townhomes will not be available for long, so stop by the Turtle Creek Leasing Office and get your application packet today! 
Some one bedroom and studios still available as well! 
Turtle Creek Apartments 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive• 272-8124 
.. 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 22, 1999 
¦ NBA 
Rodman returns to rally Lakers to win 
Associated Press 
OHL/\NDO. Fla. 
Dennis Rodman returned to Lhe Los Angeles Lakers and was his usual defiant self Sunrlay, refusing lo apologize for his eccentric lifestyle or his gambling trip to Las Vngas wbilc his tearn was on the road losing thrfrn of fnur 
I games. 
'Tl! bn here the rest of the season. I've used up my hall pass," he said. adding that his return got just the kind of reaction from his teammates that he expected -none. 
Hodman played 23 minutes Sunday and had four points on 2-f'or-2 shooting and grabbed six rebounds to help the Lakors ovorcomo a 24-point deficit to bPat the Orlando Magic 115-104. 
The seven-time rebounding champion, who has helped teams win five NBA champi­
/ onships. insisted the eighl­day break had nothing to do with drinking, gambling, smoking or marital problems. "This game ain't worth that much for me to lose who I am," Rodman said, adding that he was fined $100 a day by tlrn Lakers. "I had to get away because I really didn't know if I wanted to play bas­ketball." In fact. he said, it was wife Carmen Electra who helped convince him to return to work after spending part of' the layoff in Las Vegas. Asked if he had resolved the matters that left him ponder­ing retirement. Rodman smiled. "l\iothing's 1wer ironed out. They just kind of subside for a while." he said. or his decision to spend part of the time gam­bling in Las Vegas, he said: 'Tm different. I do it my way." He did not apologize -pub­licly. or to his teammates. "I didn't need to do that. I won't do that," Rodman said. 
"Like I said, action speaks louder than words. I came bark ... People havf' to under­stand this is me. Just let me do what l'vf got to do and every­thing will be all right." 
The l:Hh-year pro's team­mates wcrn supportive. 
"Ile had personal problems and our organization was gra­cious enough to hit him go to Vegas and do some gambling and clear his head, whatever," ShaquillP 0'Neal said. "But he's back. We all said what we had to say to him. Hopefully. he doesn't do that again." 
Rodman said he arrived in town at about 3 a.m. and accompanied the team to Orlando Arena where he spoke briet1y with coach Kurt Rambis. 
"I just asked him if he was all right," Rarnbis said. "Ile said he was all right, and that was it." 
When asked if Bodman assunid him he will not leave thP team again. the coach said: "I tlnn't think anybody can make those assurances." 
Rambis declined to specu­late on what might happen if seven-time rebounding cham­pion leaves the team again. 
"We'll have to cross that bridge if and when it hap­pens," Rambis said. 'Tm not going to sit here with hard and fast rules to what happens in future situations." 
It was suggested to Rambis that the 1.akers, particularly under former coach Pat Riley, would not have tolerated such behavior when Rambis was part of teams led by Magic .Johnson and Kareem Abdul­Jabbar. 
Hodman has been on five 
championship teams  - two  
with  Detroit,  three  with  
Chicago.  

However, at age 37, he has grown weary of the game. Still, he says, he plans to help get thf' Lakers a title. 

¦ MEN'S LACROSSE 
ND falls short against Loyola 
Irish set standard for season with strong performance 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports W ricer 
The men's lacrosse team proved it belongs to be men­tioned with the nation's elite teams this weekend. The l 7th­ranked Irish wern narrowly defeated 10-8 by top-ranked Loyola (Md.) in front of a large crowd in Baltimore. 
Despite a sub-par practice on Thursday followed by a delayed f'light on Friday which caused the Irish to miss their walk­through, the Irish were ready come game time. 
"We played well. We were with them the entire game," said assistant coach Jim Finlay. "We scrapped for every goal and defensive play that we had. It was the players who really made this game, no doubt about it. They provPd tn themsl~lves and to the rest of the lacrosse world that they arc as good as anyone 
<.'!Se." 
The Irish opened up the scor­ing 2:06 into the game on a goal by Chris Dusseau. Steve Bishko also scored in the first quarter, but Loyola's Peter llaas's three goals propelled Loyola to a 3-2 lead after the first 15 minutes. 
Haas scored again to begin the second quarter, before the Irish offense came alive. They explod• ed for four unanswered goals before Loyola scored twice to tie the score at six going into the second half. 
Dusscau's goal in tlrn third quarter, his fourth goal of the game, knottnd thn gamn at seven 
'WEPLAYED so WELL 
THAT WE'VE SET THE BAR, THE LEVEL OF PLAY THAT WE KNOW WE CAN PLAY AT.' 
JtM FINLEY 
NOTRE DAME ASSISTA!vT COACH 
and was the closest the Irish would come again the game. In addition to Dusseau's four goals, sophomore David Ulrich also played a solid game. Ulrich. who was named tho Great Wnstnrn Lacrosse l.1\ague Player of tlw Week for his performance in last week's 14-10 victory over Villanova, rncordcd two goals and two assists for the Irish. who fell to 3-2 on the season. Goalkeeper Kirk Howell, making only his fifth career start, had a career-high 15 saves in defeat. 
Coach Finlay praised the lead­ership of his co-captains Dusseau and David Biddison. While Dusseau was the offensive star for the Irish, Bitldison spearheaded a defense which held the potent Greyhound attack to ten goals. (Hher key dcl'onsive players wern seniors Laurence Galli and Hay Cross along with sophomore Mike /\dams. 
With the outstanding play on Saturday, Finlay now knows how good his team can p.lay and expects that kind of Plfort PVPry game. 
"We playml so wnll that we'vn set the bar. tlw l1wel of' play that wn know we can play at,'' said Finlay. "Now, we toll our playnrs that every timn you come out you havn to play that way. I think thny'rn rnady for Urn d1al­l1mge." 
The road d1wsn'l gt>l any mtsi­c r for th11 Irish as they host another rankPd tnam, I lobart. on Saturday. Coach Kevin Corrigan was scouting Ilobart in porson yesterday in Boston. Finlay knows his team is in for a batt!P this wnekm1d. 
"llohart's a grnat t.Pam. Tlwy get bettnr evPry year, ThPy'rp as good as anyonn nlsn and will c·onrn rParly to play,'' said Finlay. "We've got a lot to prove. Tlrny bmtt us by a couplP of' goals last year. Wn'rn prPtty happy to haVI' an opportunity to play tlwm again and prove that we'rn a lit­tle bettnr than last ynar." 
ME>N>S .LACROSSE SCHEDULE 
MARCH 27  VS. HOBART  
MARCH 30  VS. BUTLER  
APRIL 3  AT HOFSTRA  


The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Department of Management announce 
NEW COURSES FOR FALL 1999 
Sophomore Course.(MGT 241) Introduction to Business Ethics No prerequisite Time -1:30 -2:45 MW (August 30 -September 29) 
This course is designed to give the student an introduction to the central questions and fundamental character ofethics and morality. The course is focused on a discussion ofethical theories which can help guide the student's problem-solving in ethical situations they will encounter in business. Ethical dilemmas faced by business persons as portrayed in films will be integrated into the class for purposes of discussion and analysis. 
Junior Course (MGT 341) Topics in Business Ethics No Prerequisite Time -1 :30 -2:45 MW (October 4 -November 10) 
Students will use cases to analyze ethical problems in the business disciplines including accounting, management, marketing, finance, and MIS. The student will be expected to apply and integrate the knowledge obtained from other courses taken as a business major. 
Senior Course (MGT 441) Business Ethics: Field Project No prerequisite Time• 1:30 -2:45 MW (November 11-December 8) 
The senior field project in ethics is designed to give the student practical experience in a social service setting. The objectives of the course are to (I) introduce the student to service experiences outside of the university setting; (2) provide a mechanism for enhancing the spiritual and intellectual awareness of students; (3) provide a mechanism for coordinating existing student social service projects with the student's academic work; (4) interact with people whose values have led them into full-time work in the not-for-profit sector. 
Each one-hour credit course will meet twice a week for 75 minutes for 5 weeks. The courses will 
run continuously after each other (sophomore course during the first S weeks of the semester; 
junior course during the second 5 weeks of the semester; and senior course during the final 5 
weeks of the semester. 
* *For more infonnation call Professor Bonnie Fremgen at 631-6685. 
.. 
Monday, !'v1arch 22, 1999 The Observer· TODAY page 23 
SLLJRRFD SPEECH 

FOXTROT 
Cl8V9Bd1Amtlnal0tll ti:vU11WtrWIPrt1tSynditil1 
PLEASE 
l>ILBERT 
---------IE 
8
! Cfl.N'T 
ANO '<OU'RE POORL'<
MWA. fW~ 
i
UN0ER5T~N0 @ 
OP..ES5EO. YOU MU5T
FWA. 00\-1 
A WOP..O YOO ie 
BE so~~ SO~T OF
M"-H FUl·I. 
~----11 
TE.CHNOLOG'< EXPERT.
l 
~ 
HOROSCOPE EU<iENIA LAST

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY, Pearl Bailey, Jennifer Capriati, Eric !die, John Major, Jill Goodacre, Eugene McCarthy, Walt Frazier, Mari­na Sirtis, Lucy Lawless 
Happy Birthday: You'll have all the skills required to reach your goals this year. Your detailed approach to everything you do will leave any competition you face way behind. You must be confident in yourself, however, so that those you want to do things with will fed that you truly are the right individual. Your numbers: 3, 18, 24, 29, 31, 48 
1 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't 
, let boredom stand in the way of doing a good job. Put some flare back into your work or move on to greater challenges. Attend motivational semi­
BILL AMEND nars that will help you to realize your potential. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20);
JASoN, No.' LET ME REPHAASE THAT. Don't be too quick to judge others. 
PLEASE  CAtH WE  No.'  PLEEEE·  NOT AS LONG  I  You may have invalid information  
CAl'fT WE GET A.  No.  GET A. NEW CoMPuTER~  \__  EEASE CAtfTWE  AS ouR cvRR ONE WoRI<  that will cause you to make the wrong choices. You need an outlet. Self-improvement projects are your  
NEW CoMPuTER?  \  GE.TA NEW COMPUTER?  '  best bet. 00000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't  
I  ,  '.:::  promise your mate that you'll do something for him or her unless you  

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
will learn if you listen Someone you 
know well will reveal information 
pertinent to your professional future. 
Move quickly if you see an opportu· 
nity to advance. Your timing must be 
impeccable 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't 
get involved in dubious financial 
schemes. Extravagance will be your 
downfall. Excessiveness will result in 
minor illness. You need to put some 
time aside for rest and relaxation. 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your partner will not put up with your possessiveness. Expect to ~ct into a heated discussion. Don t try lo change the ones you love. Self­improvement should be your goal. 
0000 
SAGrITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec, 21): Use discrimination when discussing information about work. You won't be able to trust some of your col­leagues or clients. Keep your ideas to yourself for the time being. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Irs lime to take a serious look at get­ting into shape before summer hits. You have to shed some of those layers of clothing you've been hiding under. 
00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Emotional problems with family members will be disheartening. You must listen rather than i:;ive your opinions to others. Visit friends who may be able lo shed some light on your situation. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Much 20): Don't get depressed. You need to concen­trate on your creative projects and not worry so much about what other peo­ple are saying or doing. Put your heart and soul into things you enjoy . 
000 
SCOTT ADAMS 
C 
.; THERE'S ~ fUT'( PERCENT Cl-\~NC.E "L HIRE.O P-. Of>.TA NETWORK. 

ENGtN£ER. 
Guest Lecturer John Daverio, professor of' music at Jlo.ston Unive·rsity, will present a lecture entitled '\Robert Schumann: Cryptographer or Pictographer?" this afternoon at 4:30 p.m. in room 124 of Crowley Hall. The lecture is free and open to the public. Please call 1­6201 for more information. 
Government: An Arts and Letters Major Fair follow­up meeting will be held today from 7-8 p.m. in 126 DeBartolo Hall. Advisors will be available. 
Economics: An Arts and Letters Major follow-up 
meeting will be held today from 6-7 p.m. in 118 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Advisors will be available. 
CAPP: An Arts and Letters Major follow-up meeting will be held today from 6-7 p.m. in 217 DeBartolo Hall. Advisors will be available. 
The Internships Office of the Government Department invites students to attend the Fall '99 Internship Information meeting on March 24 from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy. This meeting will focus on local internship opportunities, application pro­cedures and academic credit requirements. All studtmts are welcome. 
Disability Awareness Week -Participate in Simulation Day on March 24. Spend the day discovering what it's like to live with a physical disability. Discuss your experiences over dinner with other participants and students with real disabilities. Call Hosie McDowell at 289-4831 or Patty Flynn at 1-5293 to register. 
Wanted: 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Playwright William 
sSome Pennsylvania Dutch 
10 Carol 14 That, in France 1 s Division of a 
long poem 16 Hard rain? 17 Best Picture of 
1995 19 Tex. neighbor 20 Car that was 
always black 
21 Catch red-handed 22 Swerve 23 Arctic bird 
2s Goalie's job 21 Bed turner? 
31 --and anon 
32 "'I didn't know that!" 33 Appliqued 
38 Enticed 40 Crow's cry 42 Barber's work 43 --of 
Capricorn 45 Brit. ltiers 47 Roman road 48 "Cracklin' Rosie" 
singer 51 "Shane," e.g. 
55 "Last one -a rotten egg1" 
56 Robust 
57 Much of 35-Down 's terr 59 Melodious 
63 With defects and all 
64 Group that makes contracts 66 Fasting lime 67 Drive away 
68 "The African Queen" screenwriter James 
69 Organization with a lodge 10 One of the Astaires 71 Slothful 
DOWN 
1 Part of a nuclear arsenal, for short 2Fiddling emperor 3Pleased 4 Listen in (on) 5 German warning 6Fannie­security 7-instant 
(quickly) aItalian road g Centers of 
activity 
buckets 12 Frasier's brother 
on "Frasier" 13 Harsh reflection 18 Actress Sommer 
24 "Hold on-!" 

have full intentions of following through. You will get sidetracked by colleagues if you get involved in a dispute. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Romantic connections will lead to a serious and prosperous arrangement. Get out among intellectual people in order to meet ihe type of companions that will satisfy your needs. 0000 
LEO Ouly 23-Aug. 22): Don't let your temper ruin your day. You rnust­n't force your opinions on others. Your involvement in challenging physical activity will help ease your 
ion. 
¦ OF INTEREST 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Puzzle by Freder•ck T. Buhler 
A ONE-PANEL CARTOONIST. 
If interested, call 1--4542.
N i.::..i.:...+=-,1111111-=:.J=.+=--1 26 Payments to 
0 M I T I doctors '--'-1..c..J.~_.__.._T..._E..._S.,_T__. 27 Moola ~...:..i.c..:..L~~E:.i.;:D.i.::E..1..S~ 28 Assert 
29 Fix up 30 Oyster's center 34 Capricious 35 Org. formed to 
contain Communism 36 Bread chamber 37 One who's 
socially clueless 39 Prime-time hour 41 Desert stream 44 Parts of brains 46 Wangle 49 Accustomed 
50 Suffix with 58 Ready to be million picked 51 Humpback, e.g. 60 Korbut on the 52 Stand for 
beam 
something 61 Egyptian canal 53 Go furtively 62 Mind 54 They may come 65 The first ol 13: 
in a battery Abbr. 
•------------­Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95c per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

, .
Financial Aid Seminar!! 
On Tuesday, March 23, a Financial Aid Se1ninar will be held in Montgon1ery Theater in LaFortune Student Center. It will be conducted by Joseph A. Russo at 5:00 p.m. If you have any questions call Kathleen McCann, Acaden1ic Resources at 634-2668. All are welcon1e! ! 
-r-----­

Back to business . . . 
¦ LA Lakers' star Dennis Rodman returned to action 
on Sunday after taking a leave ofabsccnce for undis­closed reasons.
PORTS 
THE 
page 24 0 BSERVER --------------------Monday, March 22, 1999 

¦ WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish season ends with five All-American performances 
By WES RICHARDSON 
Sports Wrirer 
The Notre Dame wonwn's swimming and diving team ended their st-~ason Saturday by placing 28th with 16 points in Urn NCAA Championship meet. 
Host Grorgia won the meet for the first timr with 504.5 points. defeating 1998 champions Stanford and leaving Southern l\1elhodist al a distant third. 
The Irish placed two individu­als and two relays in the top 16. Carrie Nixon was first to score, with a 16th-place finish in the 50-vard freestvle. 
Most of Notre Dame's scoring followed immediately with the 400-yard mrdlry rnlay. ThP team ot' Kelly Hecking, Shannon Suddarth, Liz Barger and Carrie Nixon placed 11th, the school's highest finish in an event at NCAAs. 
Friday's finals session began with the 200 medley relay, 
where the Irish team or Hecking. Brittany Kline, Barger and Nixon placed 16th at l :42.75. 
Suddarth wrapped up Irish scoring on Saturday night with a 
. [5th-place finish in the 200 breaststroke al 2:1 :i.20. The swim earned her honorable mention All-America status for the fourth time in her career. making her the most decorated Notre Dame swimmer at the NCAA Championships. 
Although the Irish hoped to 
finish high,-ir in the t1mrn stand­ings, other successes minimize the disappointment, according to co-captain Barger. 
"We came away with five All­Amcricans. We've never had a relay b11forn, and it mad!' tlw top sixteen. We had more swimmers than we (Wer had before," she said. 
"We've had a very successful season overall, so wp're not dis­appointnd with NCAAs," Nixon said. "It really goes to show how w1dl w1~ work togetl11\r as a team." 
Nixon notnd that tlw nwpt was more high-scoring than last year. The points WPrn more con­centrated among tlw highnr ranks, so highnr sc·orPs than 11xpected wurn nnndnd to plac(1 among the top 15 teams. 
Every event brought a n(1w pool rncord. In addition. U.S. Open and Amnrican records wern broknn in !'our evnnts. 
see SWlM/ page 21 
I ¦ NCAA CHAMPIONSHIPS 
I 
IFencers strike back to take second 
I 
Ii By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sports EJiror 
WALTIV\M, Mass. 
For the !'ourth consecutive year. the Notre Dame fencing team finished second at the NCAA tournament in Waltham, Mass., to five-time defending national champion Penn State. 
The Irish came to Waltham with high hopes for the national title that has eluded them since 1994. Qualifying the maximum 10 fencers and bringing five All­Amcricans, the Irish thought they had their best chance of knocking off tlw Nittany Lions. Pimn State, however, proved to be too strong this year, defeat­ing the Irish 171-139. 
"I think we fenced well," head coach Yves Auriol said. "But we had to admit that Penn State was the stronger team this year." 
"They had 10 strong fencers," said epee captain Nicole Mustilli who finished her Notre Dame career by finishing fifth and earning All-American honors for the second straight year. "Even their weaker fencers fenced up. That's easy when you have spirit and you have the pressure. We fonced with a lot of' pressure that we had to be perfect." 
The Irish brought five seniors to NCAAs and hoped that this year would finally be the year that they would bring the title home to South Bend. The com­bination of a talented Penn State squad and the pressure of' the final tournament of their colle­
after four rounds in men's foil classmen so it is our job to lift "Fencing as poorly as I did on tion.
giate careers proved to be too 
and men's sabre. the team's spirits." Thursday, it completely killed In the semifinals, Szell11
much. Many fencers felt that 
"I think a lot of people put too my mental psyche," said trounced Patrick Durkin onthey did not fence at the top of much pressure on themselves Men's Sabre Lavalle, who linished his career Columbia, 15-5. Durkin finishedtheir game. 
and we didn't handle it too second i.n all-time sabre wins third at last year's champi­
"I didn't !ionce very well." said well," Stephane Auriol said, Defending sabre champion with 200. "On Friday, I just tried onships. In the f'inals, Szelle 
, Sara Walsh. who earned AII­
On Friday, behind improved LaValle found himself in 14th to fence one bout at a time and finally discovered an opponentAnrnrican honors in women's fencing from sabre captain Luke place with a 6-8 after the first tried to have fun." who was fencing ev1\n bettor
' foil f'or the fourth time. "This 
Lavalle, foil captain Stephane four rounds of competition. Szelle finished Thursday's than he was in Keeth Smart. 
was probably my worst tourna­Auriol, junior foilist Chas Hayes LaValle fenced better on Friday rounds in fourth plac11 overall Smart -the 1997 sabrn cham­ment in my four years of col­and freshman sabreman Gabor lo improve his record to 12-11 with an 11-3 record. Following pion -finished eighth at last
lege. I was wally nervous since 
Szelle, the Irish roared back to and garnered All-American a pep-talk by coach Auriol that year's championships.
this was my last yPar. I didn't move into third place. honors for the fourth straight night, Szelle went undefeated in Against Szelle, he jumpnd outhave the focus I needed in mv "We were all struggling so we year. He became the first sabre­his remaining bouts to finish to a quick 4-0 lead and Szullchig !'our bouts." · knew someone had to be a cata­man to earn this distinction with a 20-'.{ record. His second never recovernd, falling 15-4.
The prnssurr hurt the Irish 
lyst," Hayes said. "So we since Leszek Nowosielski in place finish qualified him for the Part of the problem that Szelle
the most on Thursday when 
stepped it up. We are upper-1988-91. semifinals of the sabre competi­
they stumbled to sixth place see FENCING/ page 17 

• Softball at Purdue, Men's Swimming March 23, 2 p.m. at NCAA Championships,
SPORTS 
~ " Women's Lacrosse 
March 25-27 
• 
at Syracuse, 
ATA 
March 23, 3 p.m. 
-at Michigan, 
Baseball at 'Jt?estern Michigan,
l:g) 
•
r8' 
March 24, 4 p.m. 
March 23, 5 p.m. 
GLANCE 










