Got Milk? 
Bad News Bears 
Christmas is drawing near. Infact, we're 
How many quarters make up a whole? Five, 
approaching the day ofeight-maids-a-milking. 
according to the Chicago Bears. Get the scoop 
See a Notre Dame interpretation ofthe 1 2 
on quarterback Jim Miller's suspension. 
days ofChristmas. 
Sports . page 16 
Scene . pages 12-14 

THE 
~-----------------------~--...-------·---------­

"""' 
Friday 
DECEMBER 3, 
1999 


Observer File Photo 


raise or lower the elevator 
Ohsrrvt:r Staff Repori 
to gain at:cess to the doors. Contact with the studentAnH)rican Electric Power 
was maintained throughout
and sucurity officials contin­
the work. according to secu­uu lo investigate Lhn cause 
rity officials. She suffered no
of an IHtrly morning power 
physical harm as a result of
nulagn that touched nearly the ordeal.
all of Saint Mary's c,unpus. 
The loss of power inconve­
i\11 buildings except 
nienced students whose
HHgina llall and Moreau 
studies and activities were
CentPr for the Arts lost elec­
disrupted. Computer sys­
tricity at approximately l:15 
tems in the buildings with
a.Ill. 
power were also down. cut­For students in residence 
ting students off from this
halls, this meant everything resource campus-wide.
from complete darkness to Because of the immediacylack of heat Lo a non-func­
of the situation of the
tioning voice mail system. 
woman in the elevator, the
hJr onn woman. thr. cffocts investigation into the causeWflrn far grnatnr. 
of the power outage was
i\ studnnt was trappfld in 
delayed. The local power
tlw 1•.l11vator uf lloly Cross 
company had been contact­Ila!! for morn than two ed and was reportedly work­hours. Saint Mary's security, ing un the problem, but atrnpair persons and resident 
press time the power had
assistants on duly rnsponded 
not been restored, and no
lo tlw SCCllW. cause for the blackout could
EIHvator rHpair persons be identified.
wer<i call nd to manually 
By MARIBEL MOREY News Writer 
Al'ler three consecutive years of incidents of indecent exposure, Asian Allure is tak­ing steps this year to ensure a glitch-free perfor­
Asian 
mance. The 
Allure '99
show, how­ever, will go Saturday on. 
7:30 p.m.
T h r e e 
years ago, a Washington Hall topless stu­dent model 
covered her chest with crossed arms. mimicking a pose once coined by Janet Jackson at their annual fash­ion show. The next year, a ribbon covering a female stu­dent's chest !'ell off, leaving her breasts completely exposed. 
Last year, a male partici­pant removed his pants, 


Students strut their stuff on the walkway at the 1997 Asian Allure.
see ALLURE/page 4 

=====================================================================================================================--~=-=-=---=-~­
IT'S BEGINNING TO LOOK A LOT LIKE CHRISTMAS 

News ANALYSIS 
Profs: WfO protests have lllixed aillls 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR News Writer 
Cell phones and gas masks wnro the weapons of choice in Seattle for pro­testers at this week's annual World Trade Organization conl'erencll. 
An estimated 30,000 activists con­verged on the city to protest the orga­nization's record on workers' rights and environmental issues. 
But developing nations, which com­prised 100 of the 135 WTO member states, claim they cannot afford the types of changes protesters demand. These claims are not unusual. experts say. 
"When international treaties declared slavery to be unfair trade practices over 150 years ago. nations who used slaves rather the business internsts that used slaves to raise profits in host nations. complaiJrnd it would impede economic growth," countered Teresa Ghilarducc:i, associ­ate professor of nconomics at Notre Dame and director of Higgins Labor Research Center. 
WTO ministers from some devnlop­ing countries, including India, claim the United States and other Wnstern countries aim to use reforms as pro­tectionist mechanisms, but Ghilarducci said these claims am 
see WfO/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, December 3, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Watch out for strangers? 
I talk to strangers. I know, you're not sup­posed to -didn't McGruff the Crime Dog drill that into everyone ·s head in grade school? 
But maybe it's just where I was raised -a 
litth~ town in South Dakota that no one besides my closest friends has ever heard of. 
At home it's the norm to greet everyone you meet with a friendly hello ­whether you know them or not. When I get in the car to drive back to Notre Dame, I have to break myself of the habit of wav­ing to every car that passes 
by. . One of my friends who is more familiar with "city life" has attempted to edu­cate me about the error of my ways. 

Erin Piroutek 
copy editor 

"The first rule is to never make eye contact. Everyone knows that," he tells me. "Erin, you're asking to be mugged." 
H's possible that my life has been too shel­tered. The Notre Dame campus isn't exactly crime central (Security evidently spends most of its time dealing with bike thefts and sports injuries). 
But despite that, I refuse to believe his "rule." I can't help it -I don't want to live in a world where a friendly smile can cause harm. 
In my psychology class today, our professor told us about a woman who was murdered in her New York City apartment. Thirty-eight of her neighbors heard her scream for more than half an hour, but not one of them called the police or attempted to help. Are people really so uncaring that they wouldn't help someone they don't know personally-even when that person is in dire distress? 
I'd really like to think not. 

My family went on a vacation in Denver when I was seven. I've forgotten every silly tourist attraction that we visited, but one incident stands out in my mind. 
It was the end of a long day and we were on a busy Denver freeway that runs through a poor section of the city. We were slightly con­cerped when our car began to make a funny rattling noise. Although my mom glibly pre­tended nothing was wrong, my sister and I exchanged worried glances. 
Five minutes later, our car could go no far­ther. In the days before everyone had a cellular phone, we were in trouble. As cars frantically rushed by, we scanned the area in every direc­tion, looking for somewhere to go for help. Nothing. Finally my dad decided he had no choice but to walk towards an exit several miles back. 
Surprisingly, however, at that moment anoth­er car pulled off the freeway behind us. A man got out and asked, "Can we give you a hand?" 
Soon we were at his home. While the man took my dad to get parts to fix the car, his wife and their children treated us as old friends who had arrived for a long-anticipated visit. 
I'm forever grateful they had the courage to reach out to a carload of strangers. And I hope fear won't keep me from doing the same. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and nut necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Kate Steer Amanda Greco Erin Piroutek Graphics Kyle Andrew5 
Joe Mueller Sports 
Production 
Noah Amsradcer 

Kerry Smith Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 

Dustin Ferrell Angela Campos 
The Observer (VSl'S 599 2-4000) is publislml Monday through Friday cx«;;ep, durlng ex.im and 1Jaur~on periods. Th~ Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All rcproducuon rights are reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Hesburgh addresses U.S. Senate December 5, 1969 Father Theodore Hesburgh, president of Notre Dame and chairman of the Civil Hights Commission, urged the Senate to kill a House amendment relating to "freedom of choice" desegregation plans in the South. Hesburgh warned that the amendment would be "an irreversible setback to the overall effort to achieve 
desegregalion and equal opportunity." 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Tim Brown wins Reisman December 5, 1987 Senior multi-purpose back Tim Brown won the 53rd­annual Heisman trophy by a significant margin over 
Syracuse quarterback Don McPherson. Brown is the seventh Notre Dame player to win the Heisman and the first since quarterback John Huarte in 1964. Coach Lou Holtz said, "[Brown] is the best player I've ever seen." 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Nebraska president def ends fetal cell research 
LINCOLN. Neb. 
University of Nebraska officials are standing behind the use of tis­sue from aborted fetuses for med­ical research despite recent contro­versy. 
NU has come under fire from state politicians and Creighton University counterparts for using fetal brain cells for Alzheimer's disease n~search. 
NU President Dennis Smith said in a letter sent Tuesday to Governor Mike Johanns that he would not cease the studies conducted on brain cells at the University of Nebraska Medical Center. 
A Bellevue doctor who performs abortions provides the fetuses free to the Medical Center. 
Johanns had written Smith to request an end to the research, which he called "particularly dis­

-

turbing." Smith and other officials said the issue was not about abor­tion rights but about academic free­dom. 
James Linder, interim dean of the College of Medicine at UNMC, said the research was not unique to Nebraska. He said fetal tissue research had a 20-year history in the United States and that 288 sepa­rate projects involving fetal cells are in progress in the country. 
He said work with fetal cells at 
UNMC began in 1997. 

"This is important research," 
Linder said. "If it wasn't, it wouldn't. 
be going on." 

Linder said he appreciated 
Johanns' feelings on the issue, but 
as a physician. Linder thought the 
research was necessary. 

Gail Latta, president of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln's Academic Senate, said research using fetal cells was important to future developments in treating brain diseases. . Latta said politics should not be 
part of any research-related deci­
sions. She said using fetal tissue in 
research did not encourage abor­
tion. 

"This research does not promote 
abortion in any way. It is not in any 
way linked to abortion," Latta said. 
Texas A&M victiIP clings to life 
AUSTIN, Texas 
A 19-year-old Texas A&M student who was injured in the Bonfire collapse remains hospitalized in critical condition as operations to save his life continue. John Comstock, a biomedical engineering freshman from Richardson, underwent two surgeries Wednesday to remove decaying cells on his body which could have become infectious, said family friend Reverend Philip Postell. Doctors at College Station Medical Center amputated part of Comstock's leg Friday and removed infected tissue from his stomach in an oper­ation Monday, he added. "The fact that they're keep­ing him alive this long is reassuring, but it's tough," said Postell, president of the Jesuit College Preparatory School in Dallas, which Comstock had attended. "There's only so much upbeat energy you can maintain and after a while you say, 'This is God's will and it's OK.'" Postell said Comstock has been unconscious since the Nov. 18 accident that killed 12 students and injured 27 others. He added that Comstock's legs were badly damaged in the collapse and he also suffered a broken wrist. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealher® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Friday; ~ 
,,,,, 
i 
Saturday ~ ~58 

''"'Ii·'­
Sund~y ~ 51 
... '"' ... " 
Monday 9,-•45 Tuesrlay ·.. ·1:, ~ :)42~ 1::39; 
. '"!J~·----~..~1•'··.,__....f. '... ',': ,:,. ·~ .. _:,., :/'" -·~. '';; ./·. 
Q,Q,~p~Q(f ~6 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via AssocmMd Press GraphicsNet 

Va. Tech student missing in Florida 
BLACKSBURG, Va. 
A Virginia Tech student is missing in Key West, Fla., 
after she failed to reboard a cruise ship with her family last week. Rebecca Myers, a junior public and urban affairs major, was on a Royal Caribbean Cruise vacation with her family when she and her sister Sarah took an afternoon to shop during a stopover in the Florida keys. Twelve-year-old Sarah met their parents, Scott and Elaine, at noon Thanksgiving Day by herself. She told them her older sister had gone in search of a beach to take a nap. The family reboarded the ship and discov­ered about 30 minutes after leaving port Myers was not aboard. Cynthia Edwards, public information ofiicer for the Key West police, said all officers are carrying pic­tures of Myers. Edwards said Myers' parents returned to Florida Sunday from Manassas, Va., Sunday to search. Edwards said the parents did not believe Myers would . take off without telling them, but believe her to be safe. She said the police do not suspect foul play. Kira Pedersen, Myers' roommate, said she was afraid some­thing might have happened to Myers, but said Myers 
talked about trying to get away in the past. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<" forecast for noon, Friday, Dec. 3. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

C> 1999 AccuWoath~,-. Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pnuun,: 
® © 
,..


High Low Showers Rein T-111orma Flurries Snow Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
VIit AHOCifllecJ Press 

Atlanta  63  48  Laredo  80  62  Portland  48  38  
Baltimore  58  40  Memphis  70  52  Sacramento  58  36  
Boston  48  38  Milwaukee  53  41  St. Louis  60  48  
Chicago  52  44  New York  54  42  Tampa  76  54  
Houston  76  64  Pittsburgh  56  42  Wash DC  60  42  

Friday, December 3, J999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Sorin rector leaving 
for East Africa 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Assismac News Editor 
Wlrnn Fatlrnr Steve Newton took the position as Sorin rector 1 l years ago, Im ntlver anticipated staying long. As for next y e a r . when ho loavos tlw Golden Dome for E a s t Africa, Im plans on 
a n 
1lxt11nded stay. 
''I'll he thl're l'or al least thrne y£iurs," N1\Wton said. "llowevnr, I suspBCL this lvisitl will !lasll tlw rnst of' 
rny lifo." 
Spocilically, Nnwton will be exploring tn~atment options for Africans struggling with addiction. a job similar tu the one he now holds as 1ixucutiv11 dirnctor of Life Treatment C:nntnr in South Bnnd. "The problnm rates arn thn samu as tlrny arc lmre. hut tlwre am no treat­monl programs," lw said. noting that he discovered this during his first visit thnrn. 
/\l'l1!r N1iwtnn prnsnntcd his suggnstnd solutions for the povcny-stricken rngion and l'ornwd a f'N!eration to pro­vide direct assistance to Urnse who need it most, Im still l'nlt as if' Im could do 
lllOl"U. 
"I rnalizecl the nned was strong and I was being callnd lo h1dp," Ill' said. "As a Christian. I am obligatPd to." 


Newton will concentrate his efforts in Uganda and Kenya. Ile will live "with the IIClly Cross CClmmunity in Jinga, Uganda" in accommo­dalions that lack "the com­forts of my suite at Sorin llall." 
On a previous visit to the region. Newton spent five days in Nairobi without run­ning water. 
"The life of a priest in Africa is just a little better than the life of an ordinary person there," Newton said. 
Despitu his excitemont, Newton will miss the life he has established here. 
"I will miss very much the people," he said. ''l'vH met the best people of my life at Sorin," 
Students that live with Newu,n tJXpress similar sen­timents. 
"I think his leaving stinks frnm u selfish point of view because he is the coolest rec­tor vou could have," said soptiomoro Timothy Fallon. "But, in the bigger view, he is being put to much better use of who he is and what he can do." 
"I think we all will miss him. My roommates and I think ho is a great guy," said freshman Mike Crnich. 
Newton plans on nccasion­aI returns to the United States, primarily for fundraising. Despite the dis­tance, Newton said he will maintain strong contact with his frinnds at Notre Dame. 
"Now with e-mail it will be easier," he said. 
f\t this point, Newton does not know who will be the next Sorin rector. 
Conference to honor Mcinerny 
. Notre Dame professor has influenced many through teaching and writing 
By ERIN LARUFFA 
News Writer 
Most people do not have the opportunity to attend conferences held in their honor. 
Ralph Mcinerny, however, a Notre 
D a m e professor of philoso­phy and medieval studios, will do just that 
n 

McKenna Mcinerny Hall on Saturday. 
"It's very unnerving in a way," Mcinerny said. "Jt's very flattering, of course." 
Philosophers from universi­ties around the United States will participate in the confer­ence. They will lecturn on topics ranging from 16th century natural philosophy to the role or Catholic philoso­phers. 
Mcinerny, who has taught at Notre name since 1955, specializes in medieval phi­losophy and the works Thomas Aquinas. 
"He has been one of the three or four most important figures in the last century [in keeping alive the neo­Thomast movement]." said philosophy professor David Solomon, referring to the 20th century movement 
based on the ideas of Thomas Aquinas. Solomon has been largely responsible for organizing the confer­ence. 
Mclnerny's respectability within the philosophical com­munity has earned him six honorary degrees from uni­versities around the world. 
Currently, Mcinerny has the honor of giving the Gifford Lectures in Scotland. 
He has published many philosophical books, includ­ing his recent translations of Aquinas' writings. 
Mcinerny, however, has not limited himself to philosophy. I-le has also written 63 fiction books, including a series of mysteries set at Notre Dame. 
Mcinerny authored the Father Doweling mystery series, which was made into a television series that ran for three years. 
"I have three or four mys­teries a year that come out and I do non-mystery fiction as well," Mcinerny said. 
Mcinerny has started two magazines, which Solomon said are "two of the most important Catholic maga­zines." 
In the 1980s, Mcinerny founded Crisis, which he described as "a journal of Catholic lay opinion." About four years ago, he began the Catholic Dossier as a forum to place Catholic doc­
continuing to the priesthood, it seemed natural for him to pursue a career as a philoso­pher. 
"Philosophers are always wondering if' there is such a. lhing as philosophy," he said. 
Philosophy is an important subject for students because it deals with the larger ques­tions of life. Mcinerny said. 
"It's not some technical thing that you thnn go out and use," he said. "It is real­ly pondering questions that are inescapable for every­one." 
He taught for a year at Creighton University before coming to Notre Dame, which he had never visited until after he was hired. 
"I Jove it here. I can't imag­ine being anywhere else," Mcinerny said. lie also added that it is difficult to age in a setting with so many enthusi­astic young people. 
"It's hard to grow old in this kind of situation," said Mcinerny. "You watch gener­ation after generation come in." 
All six of Mclnerny's chil­dren attended Notre Dame. He also hopes one of his 15 grandchildren will attend the University next year. 
"rNotre Dame] is unique," he said. "It stamps people. usually for the good." 
Additionally. Mcinerny is 
the director 
of the 

trine  in  its  "{Ralph Mcinerny] is  .Jacques  
correct con­text. Mcinerny also has  just about the most productive person any ofus have ever known. "  Maritain Center at Notre Dame. The center  
tremendous  consists of a  
influence through his teaching at  David Solomon philosophy professor  library col­lection dedi­cated to the  
Notre Dame.  work  of'  
"Ile  has  Maritain.  a  

taught an enlire generation French philosopher who con­of Ph.D.s," Solomon said. "He sidered himsoll' a friend of is just about the most pro­Notre Dame. ductive person any of us The conference, which will have ever known," said celebrate Mclncrny's life and Solomon. career, coincides with Notre 
Mcinerny actually spent Dame Press' publication of lwo years in a seminary, "Hccovering Nature: Essays where he was first exposed in Natural Philosophy, to philosophical teaching. Ethics, and Metaphysics in Although he decided against Honor of Ralph Mcinerny." 
St. John's Center House of Prayer 
283-0048 
We are opening an ecumenical House of Prayer near Notre Dome and are looking for volunteers. 
Our mission is to have a place where volunteers could go for prayer and also pray for those who call with requests. 
There are even a couple of rooms that will be available for a modest rent for those wishing to actually live there 
Please give us a call and pray for our mission. Thanks!! 

Graduating Seniors! 
(So~homores, Juniors, and Advanced Degree Students may also apply) 
This is the year to maximize your job/internship search with 

Careers 2000 
The class of2000 may be the most high{v recruited 
group of college grads in 20 years! 
But to land the right job for you-you should make your final choice from the largest, most attractive group ofjob choices. 


To Apply to Careers 2000 Register online with updated resume, and current GP A by Dec. JO, J999 to: 
www.careerconferences.com or send to: Conference Dates: 
•New York: Jan., 4 Careers 2000, PO Box 840 •Allanta: Jan., 17North I lavcn, CT 06473-0840 

•~:Jan.,24 •DC: Jan., 28 

~ ­
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December 3, 1999 
Hibbs exalllines 'Seinfeld,' other shows about 'nothing' 
'Characters must never learn from what they are doing., 
Thomas Hibbs philosophy professor, Boston College 

Asia. The fashion part of the
Allure 

show will have the guys continued from page I checking out the girls 
because,"that is what makes exposing his thong under­the audience cheer," Wong wear. said. 
To guard against incidents Asian Allure was created by such as these, Asian -Allure the AAA because, according will have dress rehearsals for to Wisner, "The president [of at least the next two years in the AAA] in 1996 wanted an 
preparation for each show, event to share the culture but according to Nancy Wong, co­also to do something that is president of the Asian modern enough to attract American other peo­Association ple." [AAA!. Any "This year's is different A s i a n participant Allure mod­
because there isn't such 
who. adds els have 
a contrast between the 
something to practiced the program modern fashion show s i n c e the night of October, col­
and the cultural groups." 
the perfor­lecting props mance that and projec­was not pre­Monica Wisner tors and sented in the AAA co-president searching for 
rehearsal pictures of will be fined. Asia. 
Student Activities officials "l haven't slept for the last would not comment on the few days," Wong said, noting incidents. how much time is put into the 
Saturday's performance will event. have a unique twist, and According to Wong, Asian Wong said participants are Allure was nominated last expecting a sold-out show. April for outstanding club 
"This year's is different program under the ethnic 
because there isn't such a division at the University's contrast between the modern second annual club recogni­fashion show and the cultural tion banquet. groups," said Monica Wisner. The show, "The Asian J\AA co-president Through Image: Mark of the comedy. the masters of cere­Millennium," will be held at 
mony will take the audience 7;30 p.m. Saturday in through a simulated tour of Washington Hall. 
Got 
news? 1-5323 
ERASMUS BOOKS1 
•Used 
books bought and sold i 

•25 
Catrgorics ofBoo\::s 


•25,000 H.irdback and Pap~rback 
bookslns&ock 
•Out-of-Print ~arch ~i«:: $2.00 
•Appr.iisals larg~ and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 {219} 232-8444 

on single individuals. Whenever pursuit of happiness, he said. 
By JOHN HUSTON a familial situation is addressed, These "adolescent power

News Writ~r 

it is usually with a reeling of struggles" also aid the "irra­impossibility or unfeasibility. tional obsessions" that lead toThe sitcom "Scinfeldtt uses 
Shows like "The Simpsons," the destruction of the charac­
comedy to camouflage its 

which Hibbs also classifies as ters' lovfl relationships.
nihilism, said Thomas Hibbs, nihilistic, combine family and "The amoral tone of 'Seinfeld' professor and chair of philoso­

nihilism through character doesn't mean therfl aren't any
phy at Boston College, in a lec­de\'elopment. Homer is more a rules," Hibbs said. ''There's a ture Thursday night on "Nihilism child than a father ligure. lfomer medley of rules with no seemingin Popular Culture; Seinfeld, The is "barely rational" and "inartic­relation to one another. 

Simpsons and Ally McBeal." 

ulate" and demonstrates a "Characters must never learn
Hibbs said that "Seinfeld" is ''a "primitive, subhuman state of from what they are doing ~ lh<iy way of thinking through what nature." must remain what tlwy intrinsi­nihilism rea!ly means." Applying While the nihilistic sitcom for­cally arc," Hihbs said. They are his ideas to today's culture, he mula "destroys the possibility of doomed to a life of repetition.

explained how the nihilistic 

the family," Hibbs said it is sec­In the show's final episode,humor in the show comments on 
ondary to the relationships "Seinfeld" and his friends are 
modern relationships and family themselves. "Cold calculations sitting in jail, talking about the life, as well as society in general. 

replace love and romance," he buttons on George's -sweater. 
Hibbs relies on Nietzsche to said "Haven't we had this conversa­

deline nihilism as the devalua­The characters on "Seinfeld" tion before'?" George asks, which tion of important values, as a lite deal with trivial things in rela­is a reference to a line from the "devoid of fundamental meaning tionships, said Hibbs. For first "Seinfeld" episode. 

or final purpose." 

instance, Jerry breaks up with a "There's no way out for th1~m." 
Compared to the basic. classi.­

woman because she has "man's Hibbs said. The characters an)
cal structure of older sitcoms, hands." If not complaining stuck in a life or eternal recur•

such as "The Honeymooners" or about relationships. the charac­r<rncB -a situation that Hibbs"I Love Lucy," " Seinfeld" marks ters display the "sense of being said the show applies to tho real a decisive break, said Hibbs. 

literally trapped. Love becomes world. 
While older shows depended on sadomasochistic. It becomes a llis most recent book. "Shows 

a resolution.of a dilemma in 

one-up on the other person,"· About Nothing," examines order to end the episode happily. 
said Hibbs. "Seinfeld," "Ally McBeal" and the catastrophe in an episode of 
A state of perpetual adoles­"The Simpsons," along with 
"Scinfold" is frequently left unre­cence drives the "Seinfeld" char­movies such as "Seven," "LA solved. "['Seinfeld'] goes for the acters as well. The goal, Hibbs Confid(mtial" and "Pulp Fiction" art of the unhappy, but the very said. is to attain the advantages to explore the growing nihilism funny," said Hibbs. 

of an adult while retaining the in pop culture. 
The role of the modern family responsibilities of a child. The Hibbs is also the author of 

also comes under nihilistic 

characters can never achieve "The Practice_ of Virtue: Aquinasanalysis. he said. While older this, or anything else they want, on the Good Life" and "Narrative shows concentrate on the family which leads to the show's over­in Aquinas: An Interpretation of' unit, Seinfeld focuses primarily whelming skepticism about the the Summa Contra Gentiles." 
Like to write? Write for us. 
Call 1-5323. 


orld 
a 
n 
Friday, December 3, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
AFP Photo 

Rescue teams and firefighters remove rubble from an apartment building that exploded Thursday in Wilhelmsburg, Austria. The collapse, caused by a natural gas explosion, trapped as many as 40 people. 
Building explodes, traps victims 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Train crash kills 11 
SYDNEY 
lfoscuers wnrknd inlo Urn night Thursday imarching for bodies in thn tangled wrnckagn of' two trains thal collicl1id in mountains out­side Sydrwy, killing sevnn passnngers and injuring morn than 50. A commuter train car­rying 450 pnophi roundnd a blind corner dur­ing the morning rush and slammnd into the hack ol' Urn transcontinental Indian Pacific, which was currying 159 passengers, state rail authoritins said. "Snats Wf'lll 11ying, puople went !lying, goods wcnl 11ying," said Michael lrik, whu was aboard the commuter train. The front of the commuter tr;iin was mangled and carvnd open by the impact. All of the dnad had bt)flll riding in the lirst car. "When I saw tlw carriagn in front on its side and an arm sticking out thal was all black and not mov­ing, I krrnw Llrnrn was death there and I had to go," said survivor Danielle Diamond. 
German lawmakers open 
probe on Kohl 

BEHUN 
ln a growing scandal centered on former Chanc(l!lor lln!mul Kohl. German lawmakers 111w111HI a probe Thursday into socret pay­mPnls and suspicions ol' graft that could per­marwntly tarnish his lrgacy as the leader who rt!U n i J'icd his country and pushed ro r EuropPan integration. Kohl, who ran G1mna11y with a fathnrly hand and his conser­vativn party with near-total control, admitted this week that Im had managed secret party accounts, but he has rnpeatedly denied receiv­ing bribns or kickbacks. Testing that asser­tion, parliament will now examine whether government decisions were influenced by cov11rt payments lo Kohl's Christian Dmnocrats while he was in charge. The probe was triggered by rncent rnvdations about a covert $530,000 payment to the treasurer of the Christian Democrats while Kohl was chan­cdlor and party chairman in 1991. 
China denies detentions 
BEIJING 
A Chinose official on Thursday denied reports that Beijing authorities have detained mum than 35,000 members of the Falun Gong spiritual movnrncnl since the govornment bannnd tlw group J'our months ago. The figure instead rnprns,mtccl llrn number ol' times l"ol­lownrs Wf\rn stopp1id by police, said Qian Xiaoqian, a spokesman for the State Council, China's Cabinet. A !long Kong-based human rights group, lhc Information Center of lluman Hights and Democratic Movement in China, reported Monday that Li Lanqing, a vice prnmier and mmnber of' the Communist Party's supreme decision-making body, said in a sprnich that 35,792 detentions took place in Bnijing lwtwuen .luly and October. In deny­ing that rt!port, Qian said the number was actually a tally of each time police prnventing holiday gatherings by the group took away or told a Falun Gong follow11r to leave. 
IW•idiiii@Mt•I
Dow AMEx: 
833.36

]ONES -1.22 Nasdaq:
+40.67 
3452.78 t-99.07 
NYSE: 
637.16 
+2.39

~ s&r soo: Composite1409.04 
Volume:

11,039.06 111.32 
1,099,100,450 
VOLUME LEADERS 

~UI r1,1u ~ C:llltil a £:Illa 1:11:a 
PZt.t, CotlPU'TD DSLl, .,.11 . 1.815& 31. 20 1111e..,01on ••n •1.7t +1.1:ns ::a?.'?(I Mel WO.J.ltOCON IM NCOII •LIi +1,J1,o :n.10 ANSJt?C.A OWLTD +5. 09 . '3 .8'J'S0 211.00
"°L 

COll•A.Q COIUU'TIUl C>Q .5 ••• +1.••00 1:2,JO UTt.oJU: CONII IRU •UO.ll +l. 5d,o :u.. 10 Uff&f..li!'.'.'I' COMM lCOMC .,, . J(I +Cl.5900 21. 90 CJICO HS'f&IUI caco ,J,OU;S 19.H
+J.,. ,in co• 1»c TJX •U,U .,1.:aso 11.10 urrai. co"P nrrc +1. ,1 +1.:2''5 ts. ,o 
AUSTRIA 


IRELAND 

New Belfast cabinet makes history 
Dublin. It did not name its In that cautious spirit, the appointee. day passed in Belfast with-
Associated Press 

" I welcome the IRA's out the sort of big celebra­announcement. It shows tions that followed the IRA BELFAST that on day one the IRA ~ cease-fire of 1994, which 
On a day of historic firsts have kept and defining moments, their word Irish Republican Army sup­and that porters sat down with their 
augurs well 
Protestant antagonists on for decorn ­Thursday in a new missioning," Northern Ireland govern­s a i d 
ment. Britain's top 
That first meeting pro­official in duced no decisions but Nor the r n encouraged great hopes Ire I and, that throe decades of P e t e r bloodshed may truly be at Mandelson. an end. "It seems 
Also Thursday, the IRA we are at confirmed it had appointed tho end of a 
"It seems we are at 
the end oif a terrible era ofviolence and suffering, and at the beginning ofa new 
era oflife here." 
Seamus Mallon 
Catholic Deputy leader 

ruins, but Austrian televi­sion reported later that many of the residents had been out of the building at the time of the blast. Rescuers said some people who don't live in the build­ing also may have been vis­iting friends there. 
The governor of Lower Austria state, Erwin Proell, said on state television that the explosion could have been caused by a hole drilled by mistake into a gas pipe during work to install anti-lightning devices. 
mander who now is respon­sible for education. He called the meeting "cordial, respectful and busi­nesslike." 
"It is now possible to believe the day of the gun and the bomb are in fact didn't last, and without the kind of 
m a s
5 

protests that killed a 
short-lived attempt at power-shar­ing in 1974. 
"It was a 
good start,.. said Martin McGuinness, the former IRA com-
After people noticed the odor of gas, they were ordernd to leave the build­ing and a nearby kinder­garten. However, residents were allowed to return to their homes after repairs were made. The blast occurred about a half-hour later. 
Officials said that it was unlikely that many sur­vivors would be found. 
"This is a hopeless situa­tion," Proell said. "There are practically no hollow pockets in the mound of rubble." 
over," President Clinton said in Seattle. It was Clinton's man, former Sen. George Mitchell, who prod­ded the parties to make the concessions necessary to form a government. 
Earlier in Dublin, the Hepublic of Ireland amend­ed its 1937 constitution to drop its territorial claim to the British province. Britain and Ireland also signed treaties to create all­Ireland and British-Irish institutions envisaged in tho Good Friday accord of 1998. 
"As we look into a new millennium, the people of Ireland and Britain are redefining their relation­ships as partners and equals," said Irish President Mary McAleeso, a Belfast-born Catholic who had lunch at Buckingham Palace with Queen Elizabeth II. 
Associated Press 
WILHELMSBURG 
An explosion leveled a three-story apartment building Thursday, and res­cuers worked into the night searching for victims believed buried in the ruins. 
At least one person was confirmed dead while about 200 firefighters, soldiers, police and dogs searched through the mound of rub­ble. One woman was brought out alive after medics amputated both of her legs to free her. 
The blast in this town 30 miles west of Vienna could have been caused by an ignition of natural gas, authorities said. 
It was unclear how many people were inside the building, which contained 12 apartments, when the blast occurred about 6:35 p.rn. Firemen earlier said two dead had been found but later corrected the report. 
Officials first estimated that 30 to 40 people may have been buried in the 
a senior member to meet soon with a Belfast-based disarmament commission. The outlawed group issued brief statements to the British Broadcasting Corp. in Belfast and to RTE, the Irish state broadcasters in terrible era of violence and suffering, and at the begin­ning of a new era of life here," said Seamus Mallon, the Catholic deputy leader of the new government. ''People are almost afraid to express that hope." 
w-+ 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December 3, 1999 
w 

lence, President Bill Clinton joined protestors in calling
wro 
for sanctions on countries continued from page I that would not conform to -----------certain workers' rights and mistaken. environmental provisions. 
"The protestors have "President Clinton men­moved beyond protection­tioned that clean technolo­ism," she said. "Thf!y don't gies promote growth -he 
agree with Patrick could have mentioned that Buchanan's formulations high road labor practices that we must stop trade in also promote productive order to save American jobs growth based on innovation the foreigners are taking rather than competition away." based on who can lower 
Other experts disagree. wages faster." Ghilard ucci Notre Dame associate pro­said. fessor of economics James 
Rakowski said that. while 
A call for 'openness'
the protestors are well­
Clinton's comments were 

meaning, they do not share an important validation for the same interests as work­
the protesters. However, 
ers in developing nations. 
some WTO officials, includ­The reality facing the work­ing Supachai Panitchpakdi, 
ers is very different than 
Thailand's commerce repre­what the protestors know. 
sentative who is scheduled 
"I think that although to take over leadership of 
they're loathe to admit it, 
the WTO in 2002, believe AFP Photo 
they .are well intentioned 
that his comments may have 
Anti-World Trade Organizat!on ~ctiyists protest outside the King County Jail in Seattle Thursday.
and they've clothed it in a· alienated the targeted audi­
Hundreds of people were jailed m violence that marred massive protests against the WTO's environ­
new language -it's old­
ence. Panitchpakdi told mental and worker safety standards, which critics assail as being too weak.

fashioned protectionism," he 
reporters he believed 
said. 
Clinton's stance could jeop­
the key issue because it is

ardize a new round of talks. 
who has power -voters or

From butterflies to bombs Experts say, however, that 
corporations," said

While protestors intended the focus of his and the pro­
Ghilarducci. "'Openness'

their actions to sharpen testors' concern is essential 
refers to the anti-democratic

focus on trade issues, much to a fair and successful 
structure of the WTO that

attention focuses on the vio-WTO. 
says that a nation's laws can

1ence and ensuing crack­"As far as f'm personally 
be dismissed if corporations

down by Seattle police. concerned, to have a consid­
insist it impede their trad­

Protest organizers aimed eration of large-scale trade 
ing."

to cause large-scale disrup­absent any employment con­
McIntosh realizes that

tion to meetings, but non­cern and environmental 
defenses put forth by devel­

violent activism quickly led consequences is simply 
oping nations should be

to destruction. The scene wrong," said Robert 
taken into consideration, but

went from one of monarch McIntosh, professor emeri­
he said they are not suffi­

butterfly costume-clad tus of biological sciences at 
cient reason to forego

marchers stubbornly. yet Notre Dame and editor of 
addressing larger questions

peacefully, delaying the the American Midland 
at hand.

start of the conference to Naturalist, an environmen­
"You don't expect the

widespread destruction' of tal journal published by the 
Congo, for example, to have

property and businesses. University. 
the same types of controls

Several members of an Though not an expert on 
[as developed nations]." he

anarchist group called Hlack the specific circumstances 
pointed out.· "But without

Clad Messengers admitted to facing the WTO, McIntosh 
some effort to ameliorate

taking part in the uprising. thought the issues raised 
[the problems) I don't think

They focused their destruc­through the protests show 
anyone would argue that

tive efforts on major nation­that the organization is a 
you will achieve [progress

al retailers in Seattle's com­"tool of corporations and 
on these issues]."

mercial downtown area. government agencies inter­

Room O I2, La Fortune Student Center (lower level) 
Last chance lo ship lhose holiday '3ifls lo arrive by Chrislmas. 
I 

Holiday Hours 
Mon-Wed  11am-5:30pm 6 8:30pm-12mid  
Thursdays  11am-5:30pm  
Fridays  11am-3:30pm  

Come visil us and lel us lake cue of all your shippin<3 needs! 

ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
This generated a response from thousands of police officers and nearly 200 National Guard members. When the original group of protesters realized what was taking place, many attempted to defend proper­ty and condemned violent behavior. 
While condemning the vio­ested in trade" which kept citizens' groups "out of the loop." 
One of Clinton's focuses was on the secretiye manner in which the WTO conducts its proceedings. He called for openness and public inclusion in the organiza­tion. 
"I think that openness is 

NEED MONEY FOR BREAK? 
TAKE OUT A SHORT-TERM LOAN FROM: 
THE MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 11:30-12:30 M-F IN FRONT OF THE 
DOOLEY ROOM IN LAFORTUNE 
CALL 1-6561 
WlTH ANY Q1,JESTIONS 

WHYSELLYOURUSEDTEXTBOOKSBACKTOTHEBOOKSTOREFOR 
LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? 
CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED 
TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY 
AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" 
1 

CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. 
THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF 
WINNING. 

WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAMPUSMONSTER.COM 


Posmons1en.com 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 
hiday, Decemher 3, 1999 The Observer . GOVERNMENT NEWS page 7 
Publicity ads push Bradley's campaign budget limit 
and other campaigning expenses spend as much as they want. . Airing television ads on sion station in the runup to tho 
Associated Press 
arn factornd in. To date, tho Texas governor Boston television stations, which primary as if they wore intr.ndnd Bradley, who's made cam­has reported raising $57 million. reach into vote-rich southern for viewers in Massachusetts. paign finance reform a central Forbes. a millionaire publisher. New Hampshire, yet applying Massachusetts doesn't hold its
WJ\SIIINGTON 

tenet of his campaign, reserved has reported raising only $4 mil­only a fraction of that spending primary until March 7, more
.lumping dangnrously dose to 
another $55,000 worth of time lion, but in 1996 he ended up to the New Hampshire limit. than a month after New
tlrn lngal spending limit, Bill 
on a nnarby Illinois station -a contributing $37.5 million of the A $100,000 ad buy in Boston, llampshiro's Feb. 1 primary. But
Bradley on Thursday scoop1id up 
way of reaching Iowa viewers $41. 7 million he spent on his !'or example, counts as only such accounting would allow the 
aho·ut 

without counting fully towards first presidential campaign. $16,800 in New Hampshire candidate to chargn about 80
$400,000 in 
Iowa sponding limits. McCain is lighting hack with spending, since TV ratings show percent of the ads' cost against
Iowa TV 
"We expoc;t to compete well in tactics that make-a farce of the that only 16.8 percent of lhe the $2.5 million limit for the
time to 
Iowa with tho caps in mind ,--on $660,000 federal spending cap Boston-area audience lives in Massachusetts primary -an 
o-nsuro 
an organizational level, on a in New Hampshire. New Hampshire. allowance nearly four limes of'
prinrn nxpo­
modia level, on a caucus-prepa­Among the techniques allowed In the past three weeks, that in New Hampshire. 
surn in tlw 
rati on level," Bradley under Federal Election Bradley has bought $550,000 McCain ollicials refused to dis­
three wHoks 
spokesman Eric llauser said. Commission law: worth of time on Boston TV sta­cuss speci!ics Thursday, rnfor­
leading into 
Bradley is not alone in taking . Claiming that any expense· tions, while spending just ring a reporter to a campaign
Urn .Jan. 24 
Bradley full advantagfi of convoluted in New Hampshire is for "fund $178,000 in New Hampshire. finance report due to be filed 
caucuses. 
spending rules for candidates raising," which immediately His rival for the Democratic with the FEC on .Jan. 31 -the
Although 
who accept federal matching allows candidates to count only nomination, Vice President Al day before the New Hampshire
tho moiwy is not sµnnt until the 
funds. half of the expense against the Gore, has spent $285,000 for primary.
ads actually air, Bradley's 
Son. John McCain of Arizona, state's $660,000 limit. television time _in New "We will disclose what we're
.January orclnrs at five Iowa TV 
another campaign finance Candidates can do so even if Hampshire but nothing yet in spending everywhere whim wr.
stations brought his advertising 
reform champion, is using time­the spending has nothing to do Boston. file our report," said McCain 
costs in tlrn state lo around 
tested tactics to try to compete with licking envelopes and seek­. In a twist, McCain also is spokesman Howard Opinsky. "It
$880,000 -a total that bull<, up 
with Gov. Gm,rge W. Bush and ing contributions, up to a maxi­expected to account for some of will be available at that time, but 
against thn $1.1 million spend­
Steve Forbes, both of whom mum deduction of $6.5 million the television ads he runs on we're following the letter of the
ing limit ,wen bd'orn travlll, staff 
declined federal funds and can during the primary campaign. New Hampshire's main televi-law in all of our exprmditures." 
<{:) 
'-.) 
O­
-E -;r­
0 

We're \00Kin9 for new ideas to 
ma~e LND 14 11-\f, B£.~T CVf,fZ-1 

Steering Comn1ittee NOWFORMJNG! 
?\case. contact kara at 1-ii,1 or ~usie. ~t 1-3'5"31 
Z?~~ 
Gingrich won't party with GOP 
interested or would even con­over the political implications
Associated Press 

sider attending such an of his recent troubles if they event," Gingrich wrote. "I am decided to invite him to partic­not and would not." ipate in the event.
WASI-IINGTON 

Gingrich, widely credited "He's trying to get out of the
Amid private GOP grum­

with masterminding the first controversy and he did it mas­
blings about whether he House GOP majority in 40 terfully," said Sen. Paulshould be invited, former 

years, stepped down as speak­Coverdell, R-Ga., a longtime
House Speaker Newt Gingrich 

er and associate of 
says he does not plan to attend resigned from Gingrich and 

a celebration next year to "No one called to ask ifI
Congress one of the
mark the fifth anniversary of­

a f t e r was interested or would planners of
the Republican takeover of 

Republicans even consider attending the January
Congress he engineered. 

lost five celebration.
In a letter published such an event."
House seats In the let­Thursday in the Capitol Hill in last year's ter, Gingrich
newspaper Roll Call, Gingrich 

elections. Newt Gingrich said he decid­
said he was both amused and 

In July, he ed to leavo
house speaker
amazed at recent reports tlrnt 

filed for Congress tu
House GOP leaders were 

divorce from remove him­
debating whether to invite 

his wife of 18 years and subse­self from the spotlight so con­him. 
quently acknowledged through gressional Republicans could"No one called to ask if I was 
his lawyers that he had been focus on the issues that pro­involved in an intimate rela­duced their electoral success­tionship with a 33-year-old es. House committee aide for the "A celebration of five years past six years. of Republican control of 
Gingrich's letter came as Congress is really an opportu­
lEADERSHIP FOR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE AND PERSONAl SUCCESS lECTURE SERIES 
presents Mr. Mike Harper, Former Chairman and CEO of RJR Nabisco and ConAgra 
"The Power of the Individual" 
Friday, December 3 1:00 p.m. Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration University of Notre Dame 
sponsored by The Management Department 
congressional Republicans nity for the current Republican planning the five-year leadership to set llrn stage for anniversary celebration were the fall 2000 elections," engaged in an internal debate Gingrich wrote. 

AII Times for Dec. 3-5 Only Salurday & Sunday Matinees In llracket, 
; Star Wars Episode I: (PG) Digital Sleepy Hollow (R) Digi1al , I The l'Tlantom Menace Chw·11y s,·,~,,,;,,R [°I I:40 2:051 4:40 7:05 9:30 i [11:10 1:50) 4:30 7:10 I0:00 112:30 3:001 5:30 8:(X) l0:30 ' Toy Story 2 (G) Digital Pokemon (G) Digital : ' [! 1:00 1:301 4:00 6:30 8:50 Il:201 3:50 6:20 
I11 :30 2:00] 4:~5 7:00 9:20 Doi,m1 (R) Digital ' I12:00 2:30] 5:00 7:30 9:50 11 :551 4:45 7:35 10:25 
> 

: Endofl>dy~ (R) Digital Anywhere But Here (PG-13) Digital 
[11:20 2:151 5:10 7:45 10:20 I11 :45 2:201 5:05 7:40 10: 15 
[1:40] 4:15 7:15 9:55 The Bone Collector (R) Digital , 
• The World is Not Enough (PG-13) [2:401 5: 15 7:50 I0:35 
' 

. [12:40] 3:40 6:40 9:40 Digital Double Jeopardy (R) Digital' 
[1:10] 4:10 7:20 10:10 112: JO 2:501 5:35 8:IO 10:35 The Sixth Sense (PG-13) Digital The ()in~a Code (PG-13) Digital 
[2: IOJ 4:55 7:25 I0:05 8:45 
.,,.,,..v,vN-,v•.,.••W•'< _,,._.,..,,-,.,,.,,,.••.., ~,.w.--o ...,,,. ,._.,_._,,,.,.,...,.,.,,_,_,_, 

ONL y $1 00 All Show, Before 6pm
SCOTTSDALE 6 • Everyone• Everyday Scottsdale Mall • 299-6063 $1.50 All Evening Shows ;16. 
: Three to Tango (PG-13) For Love of the Game (PG-13) 
I:30 4:50 8:00' I:00 4:00 7:00 9:30 
Runaway Bride (PG)
1Blue Streak (PG-13) 
1:10 4:40 7:10 9:40I:50 4:40 7:30 9:50 
ln.~pector Gadget (PG)
'Bowfinger (PG-13) 
I:20 4:30 6:4() 8:50
' I:40 4:20 7:20 9:45 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, December 3, 1999 
Gene therapy results in death 
. Treatment for a rare disease leads to first gene therapy­related death 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

In a setback for one of the most 1~xciting fields of medical research, investi­gators confirmed that a young man who died dur­ing a gene therapy exper­iment in September was killed by the treatment. The preliminary report 
on  the death  of Jesse  
Gelsinger  of  Tucson,  
Ariz.,  found  that  an  

infusion of corrective genes, encased in a weakened cold virus, triggered an extreme immune-system reaction that caused multiple organ failure, said James Wilson, director of the University of Pennsylvania Institute for Human Gene Therapy. 
Gelsinger. 18. is believed to be the first person to die as a direct result of gene therapy. 
The case has stirred debate over using patients in gene-therapy experiments who are not close to death. Gelsinger had a 
modified cold virus and 
engineered genes into an 
artery leading into his 
liver. He suffered from 
ornithine transcarbamy­
lase deficiency. a genetic 
disorder that leaves the 
body unable to produce 
enzymes that remove 
ammonia from the body. 
Ammonia is a byproduct 
of protein processing. 
Most victims of the rare 
disot·der die as infants. 
Gelsinger had a mild 
form that he kept in 
check with medications 
and low~protein foods. 
Researchers said they 
still do not understand 
precisely why Gelsinger 
died. Seventeen other 
patients had been 
through the procedure 
without ill effects; and 
none of' the studies· on 
animals indicated that 
there would be an 
immune reaction such as 
the one that killed 
Gelsinger, Wilson said. 
The preliminary investi­. gation suggests that the 
cold virus should not be 
injected into the blood­
stream or liver the way it 
was done in Gelsinger's 
case, Wilson said. But it 
has caused no problems 
in some other patients. 
Gelsinger's father, Paul. 
has said his son knew 
there was a chance he 
could die 
f r o m 

severe 
"People say, '/ have a partic­
gene dis­
ipating

o r d e r disease and I want gene 
in the 

C O n ­
therapy. I don't care study,
trolled 
about the risks.' Then but he
by drugs accepted
and diet someone dies and every­
the odds

but was one says, 'How could you because
relatively 
let this happen?"' he want­
healthy 
ed towhen he 

h e I pb·e g an Arthur Caplan himselfthe ther­
bioethicist and oth­
apy. 
In addi­tion. the results could delay experiments that use viruses to lransport the corrective genes into the body -currently the most common treatment method. 
In the Penn trial, the corrective genes were encased in a weakened cold virus, which researchers had thought was safe for humans since even a full-blown cold virus usually causes no damage. 
"People say, 'I have a disease and I want gene therapy. I don't care about the risks.' Then someone dies and every­one says, 'How could you let t'his happen?'" bioethicist Arthur Caplan of the University of Pennsylvania said Thursday. "It will slow it for a while, then the pressures will build again, and it will get going even faster." 
Gelsinger died Sept. 17, four days after researchers injected the ers. 
In gene therapy, working genes are inserted to compen­sate for genetic naws. It is a growing field of research that holds promise in curing ail­ments from heart disease to cancer. 
After Gelsinger's death, the university study was stopped and the Food and Drug Administration ordered a halt in the enrollment of new patients in two experi­ments by Schering­Plough to use gene thera­py to treat liver cancer and colorectal cancer. Those studies, like the Penn experiment, used relatively high doses of the cold virus to pass new genes into the liver. 
Several clinical trials are also under way that directly inject corrected genes into a person's organs -so-called naked DNA infusions. Naked DNA does not carry the added risks of using a virus. 
ValuJet conspiracy trial underway 
The other defendant. Daniel Gonzalez, a vice president of main­tenance, was accused of pressing Florence and other mechanics to sign the paperwork in a small room at a session attended by ValuJct representatives anxious to get a new plane in service. 
If convicted. florence faces up to 15 years in prison. Gonzalez would face up to 10 years. 
SabreToch also faces 17 counts of hazardous materials violations and could pay up to $5.8 million in fines, as well as restitution for vic­tims' families. 
ValuJet. which has changed its name to AirTran, and SabrcTech have settled most lawsuits brought by victims' families. but a handful arc set for civil trial. 
SabreTech also has been charged in state court with murder and manslaughter in the crash. 
Sabrc'(ech is no longer in busi­ness. Its maintenance operations were sold by Sabreliner, which has retained the SabrcTech name. 

Associa1ed Press 
MIAMI 
A federal jury on Thursday began deliberating the case of an airline maintenance company and two former employees who are charged with conspiracy and lying on repair records leading up to the 1996 ValuJct crash that killed 110 people. 
In her closing argument, defense attorney Jane Raskin said the ValuJet crash alerted the aviation industry to the dangers of handling hazardous materials but did not result from a crime by the jet repair contractor, SabreTech. 
There was an unfortunate lack of required training for SabreTech employees, she said. "lf we had it all to do over again, we would have done better." 
After her arguments. the jury met for about 30 minutes before leaving for the day. They were set to resume deliberations Friday morning. 

Earlier, federal prosecutor Caroline Miller likened SabreTech's perspective to the lame excuses of a child. 
"SabreTech is in denial about what happened hero, and maybe that's understandable," she said. "It's hard for them to face the truth." 
The case concerns 144 oxygen generators removed by SabreTech from other ValuJet planes and delivered to the ill-fated flight with­out any markings indicating they were hazardous. 
Crash investigators blamed the explosive-tipped generators, put aboard the plane by ValuJet work­ers, for starting a .2.200-degree cargo fire that brought down the DC-9 on May 11. 1996, in the Everglades. 
Mechanic Eugene Florence. a defendant, sigrn~d a work card stat­ing he had installed shipping caps on the generators but admitted days later that he had not. 
Nothmg beats our big,juicy Double Cheeseburger. It's got the great taste offlame broiling and has 75% more beef than McDonald's"'_Cheeseburger. 
'(Price and participation may vary.) 
The Huddle • Lafortune Student 1., 
It just tastes better.
•

@1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the Bun Halves logo trademark. McDonald's is a registered trademark ot the McDonald's Corporation. 

Friday, December 3, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Polar Lander 01ission finally ready for Mars landing 
A,socia1cd Press 
PASADENA, Calif 

Afler Lwo NASA missions lo Mars over the past six years ended in sudden failure. the stakes am cspncially high Friday for the Mars Polar Lander, and tlrn list of things that can go wrong is long. 
"It's about as do-or-die an event as they come," flight operations manager Sam Thurman said. 
The Polar Lander is set to tuur.h down Friday afternoon roughly 500 miles from the lled Planet's south pole. Scientists hope to learn about Mars' cli­mate by studying layers of dust and possibly ice during the 90­day mission. Instruments will measure vapor in the atmos­phere, while a claw on the spacecraft will collect samples to be cooked and analyzed for water. 
Hut .there arc many mission­ending scenarios: The space­craft's parachute or descent thrusters could fail. It could land on a rock that causes it to tip over. Or it could touch down into the quicksand-like per­mafrost in the never-explored south polar region. 
In September. NASA's $125 million Mars Climate Orbiter vanished as it approached the Red Planet. Investigators blamed the loss on scientists' failure to realize that English­style units of measurement ­feet and inches -had not been converted to the metric system. 
And in 1993, the Mars Observer, a $1 billion NASA spacecraft, disappeared just before going into orbit around the Red Planet. It is believed to have exploded as its fuel lines were being pressurized. 
"The tension on the team is up by several factors because of' what happened," said Richard Cook. spacecraft operations 

dreds of contingency plans for home. nearly every possible glitch. Communications will also be 
"When we're working on con­complicated by the loss of the tingency plans, we're thinking Mars Orbiter, which was to gory details about everything have relayed scientific data that can go wrong," Thurman between Earth and Mars. said. NASA hopes instead to relay 
The Polar Lander will deploy data through the Mars Global 
flight operations manager 
a  parachute  Surveyor, which  
and  fire  a  has been orbit­ 
dozen retro­ "[This mission] is  ing Mars since  
rockets, slowing from about  about as do-or-die as they come. "  1997. If the first sig­n a I from the  
15,400 mph  Polar  Lander  
to 5 mph as  Sam Thurman  doesn't arrive  
it lands  on  as  expected  

the surface. about 38 min-
manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. In the weeks since the Mars

ff'heXDMOB\J 
Climate Orbiter's failure, con­trollers for the $165 million Polar Lander mission have reworked and reviewed plans to

Giving ff'Ttt 

deal with the myriad of things that could go wrong at the end of the 157-million-mile voyage. 
They have put together hun• 

H~~ hDS set up trees tn North,-S01Ath, 

"It goes through a series of
cil.niruj hails ruw. LoFortw,.e with, 
steps," said operations project manager Richard Cook. "We just need to wait for the space­
craft to try those different things." 
otnoments that hcwe o, ehilcl's nrune. 
ruw. age 011. tt. Please toke o,n. otnrune.ni 
Once communication is estab­lished and the science begins, 
backup plans are available for everything from a less-than­desired landing position and 
ruw. bc.ty ru-t opptOf>ti.ate gift fot tk 
IMs fortunote.. T~ Mm.eS h.ave. bee.rt 
power problems to computer shutdowns and malf"unctioning
prO\ltded, b~ Co.th&lie. Chotttte.s. 
sensors, And just to be certain, the sci­
entists at JPL have their good luck charm. For more than 35 years. jars of peanuts appeared on desks before launches. The tradition had faded in recent 
0ny 9rft will. be gtM!~ op~~ 
The Gilling tree will end We.d Dee. 8th. 
years, but for the Polar LandPr, the nuts will be back. 
A few minutes before landing, it will break off communication with Earth. The highest priority is making sum the probe can re-establish con­tact. 
NASA said there is a 50 per­cent chance that even if the spacecraft lands safely and deploys its camera, weather mast and antenna, it will fail in its first attempt to cont.act 
utes after the 

12:01 p.m. PST landing on Friday, controllers will use the Deep Space Network, a collection of giant antennas on Earth. 
They will listen Friday and Saturday for signals at pre­arranged times. 
And if by Sunday the Polar Lander hasn't yet contacted Earth, it is programmed to send data at a higher frequency that can be received and relayed by the Mars Global Surveyor. 

NEEDS COMMISSIONERS! 
Pick up your applications outside #315 LaFortune from November 29th -December 8th 
Applications must be returned by December 8th 
Questions? Call 1-6028 or e-mail us at BKSTR.l@nd.edu 
WELCOME TO OUR 
A 
Humble Abode 

1632 N, Adams Street 
South Bend, IN 46628
Need a comfortable place to 
stay while visiting South Bend? 
Toll Free 
1-877-6624l29 

• 
3 Bedroom/2 Bath Home Jay & Barbara Brown 

. 
Reasonable Nightly/Weekly Rates 


. 
2,5 Miles from Notre Dame www.apamnent-tech.com/humble html 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME BLACK CULTURAL ARTS COUNCIL (BCAC) ANNUAL FASHION SHOW APRIL 1, 2000 IN THE CENTURY CENTER 
T!Je BCAC welcomes any person interested in becoming a 
model for the fashion show to attend the clinics and tryout. 
Anyone with modeling experience is welcome, but no previ­
ous experience is required. All interested students, regard­
less ofethnicity or gender, are encouraged to attend. 
MODEL TRYOUT INFORMATION: 
CLINICS: SUNDAY & MONDAY, DECEMBER 5&6 7:00-8:30 PM THE ROCK, ROOM 30 I 
TRYOUTS: TUESDAY, DECEMBER 7 8:00-10:00 PM THE ROCK, ROOM 219 


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dome. IN 46556 024 Sou1h Di"ing Hall, Norre Dame, IN 4GS56 
EDITOR IN CHIFF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EurroR  BUSINl'SS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogcro  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 

SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vancga.. SAINT MAAv's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MA.NAGER: Bryan Lucz 
AD Dl'SIGN MANAGER: Bret Hudar SYSTEMS ADMINl5TllATOR: Michad Revers WEB ADMIN!STRA'rOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timorhy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERiGENERAL INFO.............63 l ·7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/6840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................63 I -4 542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.................... 631-454I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoin1. l@nd.edu SroRTS..... ...................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-87 67 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Obsecver 
articles published alter 
to meec the edicors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisemenrs, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither inStitution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters 10 the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom r,garding Obmver pol,de; should be direct­ed tQ Editor in t1ntfMichelle Krupa. 
DILBERT 
A silent but deadly war is being waged against the people of Iraq. Since Aug. 6, 1990, millions of Iraqis have been the innocent victims of econoru.ic warfare waged by the U.S. government in the form of eco­nomic sanctions. Once dependent on Susan Gordon imports for 70 per­cent of its food and 
For a More
medical supplies, 
Just and
Iraq, a country of 
Humane
22 million, is now essentially cut off World from the rest of the world. 
Sanctions deny the Iraqi people access to the basic necessities of life, including food, medicine, education, employment and clean water. Importation of adequate chlorine and spare parts to repair water treatment and sewage plants destroyed during the Gulf War is banned under the sanc­tions, consequently tap water is unsafe and raw sewage runs through many streets and is dumped into the rivers. Children, the weakest and most vulner­able, suffer the most. According to UNICEF, 4,500 Iraqi children under the age of 5 die each month, primarily from preventable and treatable diseases. This situation is well beyond a state of emergency and demands our immedi­ate attention. 
As a mother of two, I am especially sensitive to the impact of the sanctions on the Iraqi children. My heart breaks for the millions of mothers who have had to sit by helplessly and watch their children die for lack of food and medi­cine. And I am filled with rage against my government leaders who have the power to lift the sanctions and ease the suffering, but who choose to do noth­ing. I am disappointed in the lack of public outcry in opposition to the sanc­tions from Americans and can only hope that it is misinformation or the 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


lack of information that keeps most 
people from caring enough to speak 
out. The story of the human suffering 
resulting from the U.S./U.N. imposed 
sanctions regime needs to be told and, 
unfortunately, our media are not telling 
it. 
The need to witness and to draw 
attention to the truth regarding the 
sanctions is one reason I feel compelled 
to travel to Iraq. On Nov. 25, I will par­
ticipate as a member of a five-person 
Colorado Springs delegation to Iraq. 
We will be sponsored by Voices in the 
Wilderness, a Chicago-based organiza­
tion working to end the sanctions. We 
will be travelling throughout Iraq for 
approximately 10 days visiting hospi­
tals, private homes, U.N. offices and 
both governmental and non-govern­
mental organizations. We will have the 
opportunity to meet and speak with our 
Iraqi sisters and brothers and hear 
first-hand of their suffering. 
The sanctions policy is an indiscrimi­
nate weapon utilized in total disregard 
of international law. The sanctions vio­
late Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights, the U.N. Convention on the 
Rights of Children, as well as the very 
charter of the U.N. More importantly, 
they violate my own conscience which 
is guided first and forem'ost by God's 
law. 
My government is contributing to the 
slow starvation of thousands of Iraqi 
children each month. These are chil­
dren who are no more or less valued 
and cherished than our own. Madeline 
Albright says the cost is worth it. I don't 
agree. As a person of faith and a per­
son of conscience, l must do everything 
possible to nonviolently resist these ille­. gal and immoral sanctions. This 
includes traveling to Iraq in open and 
public defiance of the sanctions law. 
which according to the U.S. Office of 
Foreign Assests Control, is punishable 
by up to 12 years in jail and $1 million 
Friday, December 3, 1999 


in fines. 
There are many ways you can get involved in the effort to stop the sanc­tions. And I beg you, PLEASE do some­thing. Write your congresspeople, write a letter to the editor, attend an organiz­ing or informational meeting. If it's more information you need, check out Voices in the Wilderness' Web site at www.nonviolence.org/vitw. Each of us traveling to Iraq would welcome the opportunity to talk with any individual or group before and/or after our trip. 
Because the five of us are members of the Catholic faith community and because our trip may coincide with the pope's proposed visit to Iraq, we have asked for and received our bishop's support. We will be carrying with us a letter signed by Bishop Richard Hanifen and other priests from our diocese, expressing their opposition to the sanc­tions and solidarity with the people of Iraq. We will also be delivering a sym­bolic amount of medical and school supplies for the children of Iraq in defi­ance of the sanctions law. 
Finally, your thoughts and prayers are always needed and welcome. I embark on this journey only after much soul-searching, thought, prayer and struggle. There is still a part of me that is very uncertain and afraid, but I sup­pose it is my faith that allows me to embrace this fear and move forward, knowing that God is always near. 
Susan Gordon is a Notre Dame grad­uate ofthe Class of 1984. For a More Just and Humane World is a bi-weekly column sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. Comments and discus­sions are welcome at ND. ndcntrsc. J@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofthe Center for Social Concerns or The Observer. 


SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"They are slaves who fear to speak, for the fallen and the weak." 
James Russell Lowell American poet 

·1 
VIEWPOINT 

THE Fri<lay, December 3, 1999 OBSERVER page 11 
Approaching the millennium with hope 
l11 the ynar 999, thousands ner­vously crammed onto the Vatican grounds as tho pope celebrated midnight mass on Dnc. 31. Many had sold their possflssions, believ­ing that the end of the world would cume when the year I000 arrivnd. To Lhe relief of cveryonf' pm­scnl. llw I0th chronological n•ntury p,tsscd J)IHlC(l 1'11 Ily into Llw rwxl millennium. Tim y1iars fol­lowing have yet to s1w the coming of the end of the world. 
Today, as wn approach Urn transition into the next millenni­um, Uw world's religious "gnofips" am at it again with pre­dictions of doom and d(istruction. .Jrn·ry Falwell, for example, announrnd months ago that Im has stored "plPnty of canned goods and ammunition." Militia groups and those with generally "unusual" lrnlids am bracing !'or the big Y2K meltdown. Fringe groups l'rom across the political and rnligious spcctrums will make this Nnw Year's cdebration one lo renwmb1!r. 
But fringe groups are not Lhe only ones who at times have actml with carnlcss. rigid, reck­less or down­right inhumane 


Discrimination and AIDS
treatment experimentation against others. are but two of many of animal tissues. Upon rnllection Today, pig hearts
issues the Church and 
of' the past mil­are implanted
society must approach
lennium, we into humans, Catholics at in more imaginative thus giving them added years of ·
limns have had ways during the 
our sham ol' quality life. Many
next millennium.
goofy moments and crusading causes. Most notably were the 
inquisitions, beginning with Pope Gregory IX and running beyond 
Pope Jolm XXII. 
As we 1wolve into a more sophisticated society, the lessons loarrwd am oftentimes lost during tlrn heat ol' a recent moment. Our sights must bo sPl on the future, and our lead1ws must revolution­izo our actions so that people, not doclrirw arn om primary con­cnrn. Vatican II under Pope .John XXIII forover changed and some­what modnrniznd the Church. That modm·nization, along with Urn drastic decline or rnligious serving lhe Church, hclpnd fuel a l'rtmdom Catholic university administrators hav11 1111joyed until the recnnt efforts o!' bishops to liavo the Valican control higher oducaLional institutions. 
It is ironic that Notrn Dame, for example, strives to pnrtrny itself as "the" Catholic university in the Unitnd Statns by strictly and con­sNvatiwly adhering to Church dogma. Using such an approach is a tactical and convenient nwthod to justify denying thos(l who snPk a 11nndiscriminaLion clawm that indudes sexual orien­tation. 
Whilu som<' portray the Notre l)anw administration as mini­inquisilors in modern-day dolh­i11g, nthors agron with Lhe admin­islratio11 that tho Church's mis­sion is not negotiable. We "cal'etn­ria Catholics" would like to think that the Church could be like a big tent that can include every­one. However, the realization is that at any given moment actions arc taken according Lo the philo­sophical rigidness of current lead­ers. Wo "K-mart Catholics" are nut as cheap with our religion as dogmatic Catholics would like to portray us, and we seek the com­ing of a new John XXIII who can update Church dogma with some practical application. 
Fighting AIOS in Third World countries is an issue our Church must soon address in a reason­able way before this great plague rivals the Middle Ages. Not ,,cighing the positive medical consequences of contraception in these ravaged countries belies past explanations. All sexual con­tact is not solely intended for pro­creation. Thinking that the absence of a contraceptive device validates a couple's urges, espe­cially while in the state of mar­riagn, is a naive and hollow excuse that defies biology. Furthermore, maintaining the position that the impeding of' the procreation process is wrong, evnn when an epidemic rages with the undflr-educated popula­tion of the Third World, is in itself backward thinking. Ignoring the need to educate and immediately stop the spread ofAIDS is almost like condemning the least educat• ed to death. 
Twenty years ago, Hight-To-Life supporters vehemently opposed 
artificial insemi­
nation and 
families have 

only begun with the help of artificial insemination. Think how it must feel for that son or daughter who is alive today to contemplate what may not have happened had the thoughts and fears of two decades ago been set in stone. To my way of thinking, some "cafeteria sci­entists" are to be congratulated. 
Discrimination and AIDS are but Lwo of many issues the Church and society must approach in more imaginative ways during the next millennium. Unl'orlunalely, changes will take time -maybe not until the next John XX!ll-type of thinker is elected Pope. It may be a genera­tion or two away. IL may be a cen­turv or two from now. Hegardlcss, we should celebrate the passing of this millennium with the hope that the future holds remarkable achievements yet to come when our future lead­ers adapt accordingly. 
Gary J. Carnso. Notre Dame '73, is currently serving in President Clinton ·s administra­tion as a Congressional and pub­lic affairs director and worked at the U.S. /louse ofRepresentatiues for 17 years. !Jis column appears every ulher Friday. 
The 11iews expressed in this culwrm are lhose ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe 0/Jseroer. · · 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Women are not to blame 
This is in response to Gabriel Martinez's column yesterday. I should say up front that I am one of the people Martinez calls "dam­aged goods." 
I do not dress provocatively. I do not wear low-cut shirts, high-cut skirts, fishnet stock­ings or anything skin-tight. I dress like a completely comfortable 21-year-old. 
I do not go to debaucherous room parties. I do not drink. I do not smoke. I admit I do swear sometimes. My friends are not sluttish. They are not easy. I am not easy. l would . make a caring wife and a caring mother and I am a caring sister. I am a good person, despite being "damaged goods." Dozens have not "handled me," but more than one has. 
It wasn't my idea. I was gang raped. I assure you it had nothing to do wilh the way I was dressed at the time. These "pigs" did not attack me because I "looked easy." I didn't send them any "signals," consciously or unconsciously. They attacked me because they felt like it, because they needed to feel strong and powerful and dominant. 
Women do not send the kind of signals Martinez suggests; we act according to what we believe and what we feel and what we want to do. Men perceive they are receiving these signals because they want to think that they are desireable; they need to believe in these to inflate their egos and to justify their oppresive, macho behavior. Many men, both "good guys" and "pigs," believe that women were placed on this Earth for their pleasure and will not listen when anyone tells them differently. 

Women cannot bring unwanted sexual attention on themselves, and they are not in charge of making sure that men respect their modesty and their limits. Men are responsi­ble for their own renderings of women's dress, dancing styles and drinking habits. 
The law supports this idea. Any rapt~ victim can tell you that it is certainly not legal defense to say that the victim was wearing a miniskirt, so she was asking for it. It is tiqual­ly ridiculous to suggflst that men look at a woman dressed in a certain manner 11nd decide she "looks easy" and therefore is just playing hard to get when she says no. In fact, it is exactly this attitude that cuusf:s women to receive unwanted advances. It is a woman's right t.o dress as sho ploasos and act as she pleases without harrassment l'rom men. As a woman I was insultnd by Martinez's assertion to tho contrary. 
As a rape victim, I sat down and cried that he would flver suggest a woman is to blame for any unwanted sexual attcnlion. 
As Martinez says, a woman's clothes can provoke a man's reaction. The problem, however, lies not in the clothes, but in the reaction. 
Anonymous December 2, 1999 

The Irish Guard must go 
This in no way represents the official views of the band as a whole, its officers or the directors, but as a member of' the band of the Fighting Irish, I am very upset with the way the Irish Guard has conducted itself' in public this year, which reflects poorly on all of us band members who march behind them. 
It seems like a weekly occurrence getting a handful of' complaints via mail, e-mail, phone calls and letters to The Observer about the Irish Guard. As an auxiliary group to the band, they have done nothing but tarnish the golden image of the band by misrepresenting us when they knock over helpless children, the elderly and students' fiancees. 
Where were you guys this year when at Michigan two large men cut right in front of a row of band members marching back to our busses? That's right, you were busy knocking over some little old lady who hap­pened to be standing along the side of the road. You guys can't even protect the band, your first and foremost duty. 
If the Irish Guard was actually good for something other than providing a few cheap thrills for girls hoping to get flashed, then it might be a different story. In 1949, director of' bands II. Lee Hope con­ceived the idfla of the Irish Guard for adding color to the band while maintaining the dig­nity befitting the nat.ion's oldest university band. I serionsl.y doubt the black and blue marks that the Irish Guard's victims have niccived are the type of color he was talking about. As for maintaining dignity, nice try! 
It comes ·down to two things. The Guard is not doing its job and they are only making it harder for everyone else to do ilrnirs. The marching band has been the best and has worked the hardest this year than in any year before; evflryone will tell you that. At rehearsals, everyone in the band is giving 110 percent while guard members screw around and do everything except for what they are supposed to be doing, which wastes everyone's time. 

The Irish Guard has been disbanded in the past for different reasons. I think it is time for it to happen again. There are so many musicians that show up to band camp in August who 
don't make the band and are heartbroken and would die for the opportunity to 
march in the band. Why don't we let 10 more well­
deserving musi­
cians in, dis­band the Irish Guard and kill 
two irritating birds with one easy-to-throw stone'? 
I realize the Irish Guard is a tradition, 
but is this a tradition we really want. painting Notre 
Dame and the band in such a poor light? I know 
this is going to roll some heads and I am glad because 1know manv band members are thinking exactly what I'm thinking but are afraid lo say it. 

I know I am speaking for the silent majority. This nfleded to be said by someone and I have no problem with that snmoomi being mo. 
Antonio Di Pasquale Junior Dillon H:111 l)c,ct'm\wr 2, 1999 


y
H 0 
cene• 
O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Friday, December 3, 1999 
~~ tweiv,e ~a9s Ctirts 
Scene presents the holiday spirit found throughout teeming with examples ofeach ofthe gifts given in t 
Twelve drummers drumming ... 

KEVIN DALUMIThe Observer 
Peppily piping, the piccolos pro­vide a melody to match the dozen drummers' beat . 

. . . Ten lords -a -leaping ... 
MARY CALASH/Tha Observer 
Bounce. Bounce. Bounce. The Notre Dame women's basketball team prepares for its game with the grace of a "Nutcracker" ballerlna. 


Bang Bang! Boom Boom! For more than 154 years, the Notre Dame drum line hasn't missed a beat. From football to basketball, year after year, the drummers keep a drumming . 

... Eleven pipers piping ... 
Walking into the winter wonderland of the Joyce Center, the Notre Dame hockey team offers a warm wel­come • 

... Nine ladies dancing ... 

y

H 0 
cene• 

O
THE Friday, December 3, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
--------------------------------~-------------------------­
a,s, Xotre Da,me st9Ce 

pus. From athletes to students, Notre Dame is 
popular carol, "The Twelve Days of Christmas." 
... Eight maids -a milking • • • ••• Seven swans -a -swimming ••• 



KEVIN DAL UM/The Obse,ver 

Six geese • a • laylng .•• In the water. These geese opted to stay In the lakes and await the snow rather than head south for the winter. 
Golden rings adorn the fingers of 
many Notre Dame students come Christmas day. 
These Jewels of school pride top everyone's wish 
11st. 


.:::. 
-l. 
..... 

y
H 0 
cene• 
"1:HE 

page 14 VtiSERVER Friday, December 3, 1999 

• • • Four calling birds ••• •• • Three French hens ••• 


.. 
So maybe she's not a partridge. And maybe it's not a pear tree. More like ... a Virgin in a pine tree. Our Lady of the Lake watch­es over the Notre Dame community, to remind all to keep the spirit of Christmas· alive throughout the year. 
KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 

Joyeux Noel! French professors Vicki Toumayan, Marie-Claire Escoda­
Risto and Odette Menyard aren't chicken to give out an F or to wish 
a merry Christmas . 
Ahhhh. Isn't that cute? The mistle­toe can be a great place to meet that special someone, so be aware of all things hanging from ceilings and doorways ... 

••• And a partridge in a pear tree. 


Friday, December 3, l 999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Police seek to question Smith 
. Teenager may have threatened ex-girlfriend with gun 
A;socia1cd Press 
CIIICAGO 

l.<1<111 Smith. tlrn trou­bl od tcnn-agnr with tlrn Dallas Mavericks, was bning sought for ques­tioning by police Thursday after they rccoived a report he threatened his ex-girl­friend with a gun at her Chicago high school. 
Tim allegations are the latest bizarre twist involving tho 19-ynar-old who jump1HI straight from high school tu the pros. 
Authorities have not issuod an arrnst warrant l'or the 6-foot-11 Smith. but said they want to talk to him about the alleged 
confrontation,  police  
spok1:snian  Ed ward  
Alonzo said.  

Police have not said that the Smith they are looking for is the Dallas playcir, but NBA !>layers union director Billy llunter confirmed the conrrnction. 
Mavericks coach Don Nelson. in Chicago ()11 Thursday night for a ganrn against the Bulls. declined t() comment. 
Smith's Arizona-based agent, Matt Muehlcbach. did not rnturn a call seek­ing com mcnt. 
Smith allegedly went to John Marsh.all Iligh School on Chicago's West Sidn early WednBsday morning and confronted the 16-year-olcl girl. Smith thrnatmrnd the girl and then told her he would shoot her brothor if she told him about it, Alonzo said. 
Smi.th thirn produced a handgun and showed it to the girl. who lled, police said. 
The girl reported the incident to police. 
The Chicago Sun-Times rnported Wednesday that Smith and his ex-girl­friend, a star basketball player at Marshall, had recently broken up. Chicago police had no such details. 
"We would just like to talk lo him al this point," Alonzo said. 
If Smith was indHed involved, it would be just tho lat,~st troubling episode for tho teen-ager who lived in various group homes while spending 14 years as a ward of Illinois. 
He's been estranged from his parents since he was 5. 
Loss than throe weeks ago in Dallas, Smith was arrested and put in a psy­chiatric ward after police found him overdosed on aspirin. 
Smith was charged with criminal mischief after he allegedly smashed the rear window of a sport utility vehicle owned by a friend. 
When officers arrived, they found Smith passed out on the floor of his apartment and wearing gnrnn war paint on his face, a police report stat­ed. 
Smith's friend told police Smith had taken more than 250 pain relievers. 
Smith was taken to the psychiatric ward of Parkland Health & Hospital System in Dallas. 
Smith declared himself eligible for the NBA draft after averaging 25.5 points, 14.5 rebounds and eight blocks as a senior at Chicago's Martin Luther King High School. 
San Antonio took him with the final pick in the first round, then traded him to Dallas. 
Under NBA rules,· all first-round selections get three-year guaranteed contracts. 
Smith's deal was worth $1.447 million. 
Problems began almost immediately when during his first practice in July Smith clashed with assis­tant coach Donnie Nelson about running laps. 
Team officials then unsuccessfully Lried to convince Smith that he would be better off spending the season over­seas or in a developmen­tal league. 
Last week, Hunter and Purvis Short of the play­ers' union traveled lo Dallas to meet with Smith. 
They spent four days with the rookie, helping him with such basics as obtaining a photo identifi­cation card. 
The Mavericks planned to have Smith play a sea­son in a minor league or in Europe, but Smith balked. 
The team is keeping him on the injured list with a lower back strain, and Hunter has com­plained that Mavericks management has kept Smith isolated from the rest of the team. 
NFL 

Authorities find Carruth played role in murder plot 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE. N.C. 
The Carolina Panthers cut off Rae Carruth's salary Thursday night, one day after authorities said he played a pivotal role in an alleged plot to try to kill his pregnant girlfriend. 
The Panthers, who placed Carruth on a paid personal leave after Cherica Adams was critically wounded in a drive-by shooting Nov. 
16. said Thursday night they were changing his status to a leave of absence without pay. 
"Hae obviously has a lot of' con­cerns to address," coach George Seifert said. "We are not making a judgment on the case, but the situa­tion makes it impossible for Rae to fulfill his contractual obligations." 
Also Thursday night, Charlotte­Mecklenburg police made a fourth arrest in the attack on Adams, who was shot four times from a passing vehicle as she drove through a Charlotte neighborhood. Stanley D. Abraham Jr., 19, of Charlotte, was arrested on charges of conspiracy to commit first-degree murder, attempted murder and shooting into an occupied vehicle -the same charges as Carruth and the other two defendants face. No bond for Abraham was immediately set. 
Seifert said Panthers owner Jerry Richardson made the decision to stop paying Carruth after consulting with team officials as well as NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue and Gene Upshaw, head of the players' union. Seifert said Tagliabue and Upshaw supported Richardson's decision. 
Team officials said their move was based in part on a clause in stan­dard NFL player contracts that stip­ulates that players must be able to perform services for their team. They also said that if' Carruth is exonerated, he would get whatever money the team owes him. 

George Laughrun, Carruth's attor­ney, said his client was trying lo come lo terms with the increasing likelihood that he would not bn able to put together the money minded to post his $3 million bond. 
"He has adjusted as well as any­body could," Laughrun told The Associated Press in a telephone interview Thursday night. "llis atti­tude is, 'Let's wait and see what happens.' He understands what he's facing. He understands the long road we're up against." 
Carruth, a wide receiver drafted by the Panthers in the first round in 1997, is in the third year of a four­yP.ar, $3.7 million contract that rails for him to get a 1999 salary of $652,500. That works out to $38,382 for each of the 17 weeks that players are paid during the sea­son. 
The team's derision to cut off' Carruth's salary came one day after Laughrun failed in his bid to get his client's bond lowered to $100,000. 
Carruth  is  being  held  at  the  
Charlotte-Mecklenburg jail.  
When  I.aughrun  went  before  

District Judge Phil Ilowcrton to seek a reduction of the bond amount, prosecutors opposed the move by saying Carruth played a key role in the crime. 
They also said eyewitnesses and direct evidence put Carruth and the two other defendants at the scene of the attack. 
"Rae Carruth was the instigator here," Assistant Mecklenburg County District Attorney Gentry Caudill said. "We are a heartbeat away from a double-murder case." 
Adams and her baby, who was 10 weeks short of full term when he was delivered by emergency Caesarean section shortly after tho shooting, remained in critical condi­tion Thursday at Carolinas Medical Center. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline fl'lr next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Browse icpl.com for Springbreak Phone Cards 669min. $20 THE LAST ISSUE OF THE "2000".AII destinations offered.Trip 243-9361 or 258-4805 OBSERVER IS WEDNESDAY, Participants.Student Orgs & DEC.8.
NOTICES FOR RENT PERSONAL 
Campus Sales Reps SPRING BREAK 2000 If you want to wish your friends a wanted. PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA happy holiday in the classifieds. the THE COPY SHOP Fabulous parties,hotels & ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND-FAX IT FASTI!! deadline Is LaFortune Student Center prices. HOME FOR PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT Sending & Receiving 2 pm Tuesday, Dec. 7. PHONE 631 ·COPY Call Inter-Campus ND-SMC EVENTS. THE "FUN PLACE"! at www.CopyShopND.com 800·327-6013 VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN· THE COPY SHOP Hey Brooke, Hey Julia 
Store Hours 243-0658. MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT-LaFortune Student Center Brooke have fun at the dance 
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight "DESPERATELY SEEKING•• ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE Our Fax # (219) 631 ·FAX 1 Julia take care of Chuk don't let him
.. ..
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm ZORICH #50 JERSEY Looking for 1 more roommate to HARD BODY CONTESTS FAX IT FAST!!! hurt himself 
Sat: Noon-6:00pm move into beautiful off-campus 3 POOLS LAZY RIVER RIDE I forgot to give him the tickets. I will 
Sun: Noon-Midnight Will pay $$$ for ANY house in Riverside historic district. WATER SLIDE leave them in an envelope on my #50 ND Football Jerseyl Male or female (currently 2 male, 1 HUGER BEACHFRONT HOT TUB tack board. 
FREE MONEY (new/used, home/away) female living there) who wants a MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES www.thecommentator.com 
htlp://expage.com/page/ajnmoney I am DESPERATE! clean, safe house and likes good UP TO 10 PEOPLE Pele ... you stopped watching foot• Help make X-Mas special music. N-Sync fans need not reply. 1-800-488-8828 www.NDToday.com ball to make popcorn and watch for a HUGE Chris Z fan. 280.00/month plus utilities. Call WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM Maverick? Tool Call with info/offer: 268-4517. Babysitter needed for 4-year old,LOST & FOUND 4·4325 SPRING BREAK 2000 transportation required. Tues. & Daily, WALK TO SCHOOL Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Thurs. 2:45-7:45 or 5:30-7:45 for I'm counting on you 10 punch 
LOST· •• Chris Zorich Superfan •• http://mmmrentals.homepage.com Jamaica and S.Padre. Reliable Spring semester. HARD. No wimpy stuff. 
Silver Charm Bracelet 232-2595 or TWA flights. Biggest Parties &Best Experience with children preferred Go for blood. 
lost 1n middle of October EXCELLENT compensation mmm.rentals@aol.com Packages. Book by Dec , & SAVE but not necessary. Call Beth at Krupa 
High sentimental value. for marketing college up to $200! 1-800-Surfs·Up 254·9060 or email at 
~3727 -Megs products at BEST prices. 3 bdrm. duplex. one mile from cam-www.studentexpress.com BLP1975@aol.com. My favorite girls • hope you all have Go NOW to: pus. Appliances, W/D. fun at the formal. Take pictures! ·' LOST 11120 Blue Northface Coat http://www.akademos.com/campus-503 Eddy St 273-8332 1988 Honda CRX UMPHREY'S McGEE and CASH REWARD call Mimi x2735 rep 104K, 4 Speed. ALI BABA'S TAHINI Malt, MDeath in unision: "Bear'butt' 6 BEORM '00·'01 Runs Well. is our favorite person in the 
LOST. $1200/mo. 273·0482 $750 288·3408 TONIGHT at WHOLE world! She is just so cool. 
DARK BLUE COLUMBIA WINTER 
.........................fl•*••··
COAT WITH BLACK ACROSS THE SHOULDERS &BLACK Sony Playstatlon FLEECE ZIP-OUT LINING. LGST to give as a Christmas gift. AT SENIOR BAR ON NOV. 20 Looking for a good deal. AFTER ND-BC GAME.$$REWARD Call Chas 
CALL PAT AT 1·312•245-4294. 4-2686
................................ 
EARN $5$s
WANTED 
FOR EVERY HOUR YOU 
SPEND SURFING Free CD ot cool indie music when you register al mybytes.com, the THE INTERNET.FOR DETAILS ultimate website for your college SEND E-MAIL TO WORLD-needs. WEB1@GO.COM 
room for rent call for Info 256-6929 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $2791 Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlile!Cancun & Jamaica 7 N_ights From $3991 Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 NEC 15" MONITOR $95 287-6459 
5 PHISH NYE ti~ ND Phan dying that plans fell through. Help me unload these' Will negotiate price Call 4-2677 
92 Ford Tempo, 4-dr., auto. loaded, 120k ml. runs well, $1350/best. 
232-5609. 

We wish we could be more like  
BENCHWARMERS  her."  
236 S Michigan St.  
9:00 pm 21+  Is that enough ol a dltalogue tor  
you? I sure hope so because that's  
www.umphreys.com  all you're going to get.  
MANDATUM  It's a pretty poor mind that can only  
Need one? We've got ·em in stacks!  think of one way to spell a wurd!  
Act now! Save time, trouble. and  -The SinNott  
$$$ by using our Hotline! Bad credi·  
bility? No credibility? We'll fix every- Hey Erin! I hope you're not giving  
thing! Call 1-800-GET-RITE and  KHS too much of a headache. See  
ask for Msgr. O'Riordan.  you in a couple weeks!  

HI CHAS. Do you know the way to San Jose? 
C O w,.


The Observer . SPORTS

page 16 
NFL 
Bears start fifth QB of season 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. 

Switching quarterbacks is hardly a new experience for the Chicago Bears. Now. after Jim Miller's four-game suspen­sion for violating the NFL drug policy, they're doing U again out of necessity. 
When they play the Green Bav Packers at Soldier Field Sunday, the Bears will turn back to opening-game starter Shane Matthews, who has been recovering from a hamstring injury and hasn't played in five weeks. 
It will be Chicago's fifth switch of starting quarterbacks this season. 
"That's never the thing you 
want to do," Bears coach Dick 
Jauron said. "You want to stay 
in rhythm. "We're confident 
Shane will step up." 
The starter's breakdown this 
season goes like this: Matthews 
six games. rookie top draft pick 
Cade McNown three and Miller 
the last three before his ran­
dom drug test showed traces of 
Nandrolone, a substance 
banned under the NFL's steroid 
policy. 
Matthews, who had been cut four times before winning the starter's job, led the Bears to a 3-2 record in the opening five games before injuring his right hamstring during the fourth quarter of the fifth game against Minnesota. 
McNown, who had berm get­

ting one series a game to get 
him acclimated to the NFL, 
filled in as a starter for two 
games before Matthews 
returned Oct. 31 against the 
Redskins. . 
Matthews reinjured the ham­

string in that game, and 
McNown then got his Lhird 
start the next week against the 
Packers. 
But McNown sprained a knee 

ligament during the first quar­
ter at Lambeau Field and was 
replaced by Miller, who led the 
Bears to victory, then took over 
as starter the next three 
games. averaging 327 yards 
passing as Chicago lost two of 
three. 
Now, it's back to Matthews. 
who admits his hamstring is still not completely healed and might not be until the season is over. He's been the Bears' third quarterback the past two games. 
"There might be some rust, but it's my job to pick up were I left ofT last time I was playing," Matthews said. 
"We're going to miss Jim," receiver Curtis Conway said. "We have four critical games to play and we've got to get our heads in it. Shane was the orig­inal starter, and I think every­body has all the confidence in the world in him." 
Glyn Milburn, the Bears' all­
purpose runner. receiver and 
kick returner, said it takes a 
slight adjustment to a new 
quarterback. 
"With Jim we got used to a 
certain style and it will change 
some,"Milburn said. "Anytime 
you change, it's a little different 
because they are all unique in 
the styles they use." 
WOOL SUITS 
$249.00 
www.droeges.com LaPorte, IN 
219-362-3615 
Friday, December 3, 1999 

.MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
LA shortstop faces assault charges 
Associated Press 

!AHAJNA, llawaii 
Los Angeles shortstop Mark Grudzielanek faces an assault charge for allegedly punching a bar bouncer earlier this week. 
Grudzielanek, a former All­Star player, was in Moose McGillycuddy's on Front Street late Tuesday night when a bouncer asked him to leave, Sgt. Donald Simpson said Thursday. 
Grudzielanek then allegedly 
punched the bouncer several 
times in the face, opening a 2­
inch cut over his left eye. 

Grudzielanek was placed 
under citizen ·s arrest and held until police arrived. 
He was charged with misde­meanor third-degree assault and released early Wednesday morning after posting $200 bail He is scheduled for a Dec. 22 hearing in Lahaina District Court. 
Dodgers spokesman Shaun Rachau said Thursday he spoke 
· with Grudzielanek's agent, Seth Levinson, and "according to him. there's no merit to the case and it will ultimately be dis­missed." 
Hachau said Grudzielanek, of North Palm Beach, Fla., was not available for comment. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
George Frideric Handel's 
~ESSIAH 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
8:00 p.m. Thursday, December 9, 1999 
Friday, December 10, 1999 Washington Hall 
Open to the public. Admission: $6 Reserved Seats; $3 Students & Seniors · Tickets available at Lafortune Box Office, 631-8128. 
Castl~'Poiot 
Apartments 

Cleveland and Ironwood Roads/18011 Cleveland Road/ South Bend, Indiana 46637/ (219)272-8110 
New Castle Point Select .Units Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 


---, 
Friday, December 3, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Bryant completes Lakers' line up 
CBS airs 1963 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

With the return of Kobe Bryant. Lhe Los Angeles 1.ukers finally have all their picc!ls in place. The way they playod without him, that could mean trou­ble f'or th!l rnst or tlrn NBA. 
Bryant 
had 19 
points, six r 1i bounds and lhrne assists in his first ganrn of' tho sPason Wlldnesduy night as tho 1.akors bf\Ut Golclnn State 9 '.{­75 f'or their fourth straight victory. 


"I felt good getting out there and playing, it was a rush," said Bryant, who drew plenty or raves from the crowd of 17,689 at Staples Center. "My timing was off. My wind was good. I felt tired at first. then I got my second wind. My legs were a little heavy. 
"I expect to be rusty for a bit, I haven't played for so long." 
Bryant, who averaged 19.9 points, 5.3 rebounds and 3.8 assists last season, was side­linnd since breaking his right hand Oct. 13 during the pre­season opener. 
"It was nice to have Kobe's energy," Lakers coach Phil Jackson said. "He's just a wild, impulsive kid right now. He's still foeling his way." 
Whon asked how he would 
grade Bryant's first game, Jackson replied, "I would say 

Army-Navy game 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Watching sports on televi­sion changed forever on a December day 36 years ago. 
It was early in the fourth quarter of the 64th Army-Navy football game. Army quarter­back Rollie Stichweh broke a tackle from .1 yard out and ran in for a touchdown. A few sec­onds later, television skating event instead). 
Verna said he started think­ing about a way to show replays out of frustration after missing too many key plays. 
''I'd say, 'What happnned on that play'?' and someone would say (Eagles receiver Tommy] McDonald had tripped," Verna said. "What if wn could let people see that again?" 
At the same time, Verna also had the problem of the devas­
tatingly long 
pauses 

viewers "/ think it·s hard to between
The Lakers performed a lot 

watched it plays.
better than expected with 

imagine viewing sports 
again -the "In thoseBryant on the sidelines, win­
without the instant
first instant days, when ·­
ning 11 of 15 games. 

replay. replay. After that, every I Eagles
"We did a good job without 
"This is

him, now we expect to do a lot sporting event had to quarl<lrback 
not live!" Norm! Van
better with him," said Glen 

use it or people would
C B S Bro-ck Ii n announcer complain." threw the Lindsay ball and Nelson said. walked back
Tony Verna
"Ladies and 
to the hud­

CBS TV director
gentlemen, dle, it was 
by the end of the year, we would give this a D or a C. It was sub-par. He's still in pre­season form, I think." 
Shaquille O'Neal, who had 28 points, 23 rebounds and four blocked shots despite sit­ting out the fourth quarter, thought Bryant played well considering it was his first game in seven weeks. 
"He got a lot of rust off," O'Neal said. "He did OK. This was his first night in this building. lle's going to play a l_?t l!,etter. He's going to be lme. 

Rice, who along with Bryant  

"As You Wish" '-g'·.,,;'-0..,,IMPORTS .,,  and O'Neal, provide the Lakers with an imposing offonsive trio. "He's got an ability to penetrate, get the ball up the tloor quickly. lt's  
Silver Rings & Toe Rings Sarongs from Bali Jewelry Tapestries Sweaters Accessories And much much more! Gautemala. Mexico • Bali • Thailand. India. Ecuador Incredible Prices!! Great Christmas Gifts!f Clearance Corned! 10% Discowits for St. Mary's Students with I.DJ! Proceeds from sales_of jewelry guarantee the loving nands of Guatemalan fom1hes 3 times their overage salary, a.swell a.s furids for their education. La Fortune ­Room 108 (near telephones) Nov. 29 -Dec. 4 ( Saturday!) 10am-5pm  going to be fun." The Lakers (12-4) will get a good idea of where they stand Friday night when they face the Portland Trail Blazers (14­3) at the Staples Center. "Friday's going to be the true test," said O'Neal, the NBA's player of the month in November with averages of 28.7 points, 13.4·rebounds, 3.36 blocked shots and 3.0 assists. Jackson said Bryant, who came off the bench and played 30 minutes against the Warriors,· would not start against Portland. One area where Bryant clearly needs to improve is defense; he was beaten sever­al times by the Warriors.  
@1K'Ce~ic·k A BRILLIANT CHOICE! BEBE SMART! COOL! (Excellence =Gene Glick Management company) Williamsburg  

Army did not score again!" 
The rest is history. On Saturday, the rivalry will be renewed for the 100th time. 
In 1963, the Army-Navy 
_ game was the nation's biggest football game with one of the largest TV audiences for a sporting event. A pi:irfect opportunity to try out a revolu­tionary TV idea, decided young TV director Tony Verna, who had attended the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. "I think it's hard to imagine viewing sports without the instant replay," Verna, 65, said this week from his office in Pacific Palisades, Calif. "After that, every sporting event had to use it or people would com­plain." Verna was only 29 when he launched instant replay, but he was already well regarded and trusted with lop athletic assignments. (The Army-Navy game in 1963 was considered more important than the first Super Bowl, held in 1966; CBS sent Verna to a European ice 
boring," he said. "You could eat a 
ham sandwich it was so slow." 
His idea was to (ilm games on videotape, then cue up a play much like can be done now on a home VCH. Video replay had been used by ABC on its halftime shows but never during a live game. 
There were problems: Videotape was cumbersome to use on location and hard to 
·come by. Verna ended up bor­rowing an old tape of "I Love Lucy" -he had to give it back, so there is no video record or the first instant replay -and placing a refrigerator-sized tapn machine with the onlield camera crew. 
In addition, videotape showed static for a few sec­onds or longer when it cued up. 
The problem was how to show a few seconds of football footage without any static. In about 50 practice runs before the game, Verna was unable to get a perfect cut but decided to try it anyway. 
el 

256-0237 302 Village Drive Mishawaka, IN 46545 
G:r
!IIIW.HOOSIHG 
OPl'OR11JNITY 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, December 3, 1999 
NFL 
Peter suits up for practice to test arm 
Associated Press 
CHAHL(ffrE, N.C. 

Jason Peter is back on the praclice field for lhe Carolina Panthers. trying to salvage what is shaping up as his sec­ond disappointing season in as many years in the NPL. 
"It's not exactly what I had pictured," Peter said Thursday before going out to once again test a surgically repaired left arm. one that doctors said nearly seven weeks ago should be fixed in four. 
Peter said he wasn't sure if he would miss his seventh con­secutive game Sunday.when the Panthers (5-6) take on the NFC West-leading St. Louis Rams (9-2). 
"I don't know what's going to happen," he said. "I think if I do play at all, it will be very limited." 
Coach George Seifert said it was too soon to make a deci­sion on Peter's status for Sunday. But Seifert said the most likely scenario would be that Peter would sit out for one more week. 
Peter, a defensive end taken with the 14th overall selection in the 1998 draft, missed two games as a rookie because of biceps and neck problems, helping limit him to just one sack in his first year as a pro. 
He had just 1.5 sacks this year in four-plus games before being sidelined by numbness and tingling in his left arm and hand. The injury occurred when Peter's arm was twisted awkwardly while he was trying 
to  make  a  tackle  during  
Carolina's  victory  at  San  
Francisco on Oct. 17,  

Doctors diagnosed the prob­lem as a disc that was putting pressure on a nerve. Peter had surgery to have the disc shaved down Oct. 26, and he began rehabilitation the next day. 
When the projected four­week recovery period ended, Peter tested the arm at prac­tice, only to find that one good shot to his head by a teammate created the same feelings of tingling and numbness in the arm. The only difference now is that instead of the problem lasting for more than a week. the tingling goes away in a matter of seconds. 
Peter's frustration became evident Nov. 22 when he told a few reporters that he was con­cerned that he might not play again this season. 
On Thursday, however, he softened that stance. 
"I want to play," hfl said. "There was some speculation that I had thrown in the towel, but I didn't mean that at all. I want to get back in as soon as I can." 
Peter said he met with spe-• cialists last week who assured him that the injury is fixed. Peter said they told him the only reason he continues to experience tingling is that there is still some swelling in the area, and that the tingling will go away as the swelling does. 
"That's what they tell me, so I believe them." he said. "They're the doctors. It gave me a lot of confidence." 
Wednesday was the first day he had pads on and took part in full-scale contact work since the injury. He has been outfit­ted with large roll of padding that looks like a collar, a brace designed to prevent his head from snapping too far to either side. 
"I was a little scared at first," he said. "I didn't know how my neck would react the first time I got contact. But it held up well. It's stiff today, but that's just expected. We knew that would happen." 
The Panthers did not work out in pads or conduct contact drills Thursday, and Seifert has no more such practices sched­uled this week. 
Seifert said that when Peter does return, it is unlikely to be as a starter. Rather, he will be worked into the lineup on a gradual basis. 
Peter, meantime, continues to wait. 
"There's still a lot of football to be played," he said. "Depending on these next cou­ple of games here, even if it's just one or two games at the end, I'll be happy with that rather than not playing at all." 
The College of Science 
DISTINGUISHED SCHOlAR lecture ~-~ries 1 
FROM the DIAMETER of the WorldWlde Web to KEVIN BACON
New 

Oirectlans In Complex/ty 

Albert-Laszlo Barabasl 
Deoa,tment al Pny;/cs 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1 
8: 00 PM Debartolo Room 138 
Vermeil defends Rams' strategy 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS Dick Vermeil doesn't like being called a bully. 
The St. Louis coach has bris­tled this week at suggestions his NFC West-leading Rams have run up the score in recent weeks. 
"People that know me know I'm not trying to enhance my ego or status or our offense's status by scoring at the end of the gamA," Vermeil said. 
The evidence: Marshall Faulk ran 18 yards.on a sweep with 
1:11 to go three weeks ago in a 35-10 victory over Carolina. and last week James Hodgins scored from the l V\ith about three min­utes left in a 43-12 vktory over New Orleans. The defense: In the first case, Vcrrneil said he believed his running game hadn't gotten enough work and 
tackling. On Sunday, he said he 
backed off and used only run-
G)
ning plays. Hodgins is a backup fullback who had only three car­ries for 5 yards all season. 1• 
"It was just like the same 
C 
oflense I ran at Hillsdale High
School," Vermeil said of his first head-coaching job. "I didn't ~ expect to score... .._ 
In any case, Vermeil isn't 
en 
expecting criticism from Panthers coach George Seifert, whose team entertains the Rams Sunday. or Saints coach Mike 
c 
Ditka. Vermeil has done his homework, and pointed out that. 
Cl)
Seifert-coached teams have' scored 50 or more points four times, and 40 or more on 18 ~ 

conservative play-calling. olJense." 
"We're professionals," Seifert, whose team will Williams said. "We're not throw­attempt to keep the Rams from ing bombs and trying to run clinching the West on Sunday, reverses. We're just running our tiptoed around the subject. 

~ 

~ ~ 
.e.e..-7  ·  
.~  .  ·  
O becem er  9 1999­I  

Thursday 
7-9pm 

Joyce Center Ice Rink 
Bring your Student ID for FREE ADMISSION AND SKATE RENTAL 
occasions. As for Ditka, Vermeil ~ Hot Chocolate and brought up the Bears' 46-10 vie-cookies will be provided tory over the New England 
0

Patriots in the 1986 Super Bowl. For more information, Rams tight end Roland please call RecSports at 1-6100 .~
Williams said the proof is in the 
CJ-ltR]STMJl.S IS IN '!J-FE}lJ~ .. 


C09vf.P. JOIN VS PO(}( 
C001(I~antf O<RJ{jl_<Jvt.P,:JVT 


cfecorating in tlie (J)OOLP/Y<R.5)0:lvf. 
followed' 6y X-:M}1S tree fightine at PFEL<DJfOVSP. 9,1JlLL. 
Satunfay, <Decem6er 4tn 7:00-9:00 p.m. 
.ft.LSO..... Pi,ctures ·with S.:4.:NT.ft_! I P(}{P/E X-mas coo/{.i.es, hot chocofate ancfcid'er! 

live X-mas music!I 


Friday, December 3, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 

QB Jared Clark 6'4" 225 lbs. from Sarasota, Fla. QB Carlyle Holiday 6'3" 190 lbs. from San Antonio, Tex. AB Vontez Duff 6'0" 180 lbs. from Copperas Cove, Tex. RB Albert Hollis 5'11" 190 lbs. from Sacramento, Calif, RB Brandon Royster 5'11" 190 lbs. from Fairfax, Va. RB Derron Parquet 6'0" 210 lbs. from Metaire1 La. WA Michael Jenkins 6'5" 200 lbs. from Tampa, Fla. WR Ronnie Rodamer 6'4" 190 lbs. from Morgantown, W.Va. WR Tab Perry 6'3" 205 lbs. from Milpitas, Calif. OL Alex Barron 6'6" 260 lbs. from Orangeburg, s.c. DUOL Greg Pauly 6'6" 270 lbs. from Waukesha, Wis. DL Bobby WIiiiams 6'5" 250 lbs. from Smyrna Beach, Fla. LB Mike Goolsby 6'3" 230 lbs. from Joliet, Ill. LB Keyaron Fox 6'3" 200 lbs. from Westlake, Ga. LB/RB Brandon Holmes 6'3" 210 lbs. from Atlanta, Ga. DB Nate Curry 5'11" 175 lbs. from Miami, Fla. DB Garron Bible 5'11" 190 lbs. from Kingwood, Tex. DB Abram Elam 6'1" 195 lbs. from West Palm Beach, Fla. 
•1nformetlon from Mike Frank, recruiting e)(pert from Omaha, Neb, 
'fhe Observer/Joe Mueller 
Venite Adoremus 
Correction: The campus-wide Eucharistic Adoration vigil mentioned in Tuesday's issue of the Observer (pl3) will begin on Monday, December 6 at 11:30 pm and conclude on Tuesday, December 7 at 10:00 pm (benediction at 9:45 pm). It will take place in St. Paul Chapel of Fisher Hall. Sorry for the confusion over date and loca­tion. The author freely admits to bejng a bit sleep deprived:-) See your liturgical commissioners to sign up, or call Laura at 4x2378. 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
said assistant coach Jerry Hosburg, whose duties also include organizing and adminis­trating thH recruiting process. "We wouldn't bring someone to campus just to check them out. We·ve done most of our leg work in lhat regard." 
Several recruits are expectud to visit this weekend, induding quarterback Jared Clark (Sarasota, Fla.), wide receiver llonnio 11odamcr (Morgantown, W.V.). linAmen Alex Barron (Orangeburg, S.C.), and Greg Pauly (Wauaesha, Wisc.I, who all have attended the Notrn Dame summer football camJl. The coaches are also allowed to crmtact tho recruits oncH a week by telephone during the months of September, October and November. 
With the NCAA rules resiricl­ing contact with the high school players, Hosburg behoves that, in particular. the summer camp presents a valuable opportunity for the coaches to evaluate potential recruits. or the 21members of this Yl}ar's fresh­man dass, 10 attended the camp prior to signing with the Irish. 
"It's become an important evaluation tnol for all schools because we have less and less opportunity to evaluate and con­tact players," Rosburg said regarding the camp. "So we, like everyone else in America, try to bring them to our summer ca~ps to get to know them bet­ter. 
Coming off a 5-7 season and with possible NCAA violations due by the end or the year, this is an important recruiting year for the Irish. The past two class-



Presents: 
VOICES IN CONCERT 
COME AND GET YOUR FILL OF THE SPIRIT! 
This Sunday, 12/5/1999 Admission: Students -$3.00 (w/StudentlD) General -$5.00 
At Washington Hall 7pm 
es have ranked in the top JO in the nation according to recruit­ing experts, yet the results on the field have not been up to par. 
"I can assure you that the response to Notre Dame has been very positive," Rosburg said. "The people out them know what Notre Dame stands for both academically and ath­letically. The interest level has been very good. 
"Notre Dame has enough posi­tive things to sell that when it all comes down to the end, they'll see what Notre Dam(l is," Hosburg added. "They'll have a good impression or what Notre Dame is all about." 
At least one well-respected known recruiting expert. Tom Lemming from Chicago, believes that the on-field performance this season will actually help the Irish in the recruiting wars. 
"A lot or times a bad season can even enhanre recruiting," Lemming said. "Players feel th11.t they can have a chance to play right away." 
There are plenty of concerns for an Irish team coming off its first seven-loss season since 1%3. The two biggest areas to fill for the Irish cnme at quarter­back and cornerback. 
The only returning quarter­backs are Battle and r:ary Godsey, who was recruited as a tight end but spent his freshman year as the third-string signal caller. At cornerback the combi­nation of Clifford Jefferson, who allowed eight touchdowns, and the graduation of Deveron Harper leaves a void in the defensive backfield. 
The Irish may get some help this weekend as two quarter­backs, Clark and Carlyle I Ioliday (San Antonio, Texas) as well as a pair of cornerbacks in Garron Bible (Kingwood, Texas) and Abram Elam (West Palm Beach. Fla.) are expected to visit. 

The weekend's festivities begin Friday night with th(i annual football banquet honoring the team. While awards like most outstanding offensive and defen­sive playBrs will be pmsnnted, the highlight of Urn banquet may be the guest speaker, Hegis Philbin. Philbin, the host of "Live! With Regis and Kuthie Lee" and the newly popular tele­vision game show "Who Wants To Be a Millionaire" will try to add somt> personality to the evening's series of events and !urn the prospects to attend his alma mater. 
AL least one prominent rncm­br:r of thtl Notre Dame football team understands the impor­tance of having a nationally nic­ognized alum assist in selling his program. "We're putting all the prnssurn 011 Hegis Philbin," hnad coach Bob Davie said on Wndnesday. "We're going lo have a great banquet and a great recruiting weekend if Regis can deliver for us, which I'm sun1 he will." 
Following the banqtrnl, the recruits will be get to oxporience tho social and academic lifo at Notre Dame. Current players will serve as hosts to the recruits to explore the campus and to experience the social and acade­mic atmosphere at Notre Dame. 
Two years after his official visit, it's now Battle's turn to show the recruits the full Notre Dame experience. 
"I don't want to mislead any­one and let them come here if they're not happy," Battle said. "We'll let them know how it's going to be and go from there. lt's not an easy place and we tell 
...
the recruits that when they get here." 



. # Pre-Leasing for Fall 2000! 

41)'"1he Best Value In Off Campus Living,, 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, December 3, 1999 
HOCKEY 
ND set to 
play host 
toMSU 

MATT OLIVA 
Sport< Wmer 
The Notre Dame hockey team returns to CCHA play this weekend, lwice matching up with Michigan State. 
The Irish (5-2-2, 3-5-2 in the CCHA) play host to the league­le ad ing Spartans Saturday night before traveling to East Lansing for Sunday's game. 
The Spartans have started out fast with a 11-4 overall record. 10-2 in the CCHA. Michigan State leads the CCHA in overall defense -allowing 
1.73 goals per game -and power play percentage, while ranking fourth in scoring and penalty killing. 
Freshman Ryan Miller has posted a 5-1 record, with a 1.40 goals-against average, a .934 save percentage and three shutouts. Junior Joe Rlackburn has equally impressive statistics with a 6-3 record, 2.04 goals­against average, a .90.5 save percentage. and one shutout. 
Offensively, the Spartans have several strong players. Senior forward Shawn HorcoIT leads the CCI-IA with 26 total points, scoring six goals to go along with his 20 assisli;, while sophomore forward Adam I-tall ranks fifth with 12 goals and eight assists. Hall is tied for first in the CCHA in goals scored, including four game­winning goals. 
The Irish will look to several players offensively to continue their recent production. Senior left-wing Andy Jurkowski has seven points in the last nine games, while senior right wing Joe Ousbabek has added five pnints in the last seven games. 
Also coming on recently is sophomore center Brett Henning. who has four points in his last five games. 
Freshman goalie Tony Zasowski leads the Irish defen­sively, turning in six strong per­formances this season. He has a 3-2-.2 rncord as a starter to go along 1..vith a 2.10 goals-against average and .925 save percent­age. Zasowski's efforts this year include a 19 save shutout and five 2-goal games. His CCI-IA goals against average of 
2.31 ra-nks eighth best in the · league. 
Anywhere But Here  PG-13  ss  
1:20 3:55  
End of Daya  R  ss  
1 :05 4:00 7:10 9:55  
2:00 4:50 7:45 10:25  
House On Haunted HIH  R  
2:05 4:45  
Messenger  R  
9:30  
Pokemon  G  
12:05 2:25 4:45 7:15  
12:40 3:00 5:20 7:55 10:15  
Sleepy Hollow  R  ss  
12:00 2:20 4:40 7:00 9:20  
1:00 3:20 5:40 8:00 10:20  
The Bachelor  PG-13  
7:30 9:55  
The Bone Collector  R  
1:10 3:50 7:20 10:10  
The Insider  R  
7:55  
The World la Not Enough  PG-13  SS  
12:15 3:05 5:55 9:15  
1:15 4:05 7:00 9:50  
2:10 5:00 7:50 10:35  
T%,~~'1:fs s:os 7:40 1~00  



S4.00 Students/Children/Seniors 
$6.50 Adult 
Stereo Surround Sound in all Theatres 
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish net spot in NCAA tourney opening round 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sports W rirer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team travels back to California this weekend for the opening round of the NCAA tourna­ment. 
The Irish earned a berth in the Central Sub-regional and will face Ohio State at UCLA's Pauley Pavilion Saturday. It marks the eighth straight sea­son that the Irish have qualified for the national tournament. 
The Irish bring a 20-8 record into the tournament against the Buckeyes. The Irish faced the Buckeyes once before in NCM action at the 1996 tournament, when Ohio State defeated Notre Dame in five games at the Joyce Center in the second round. In 1999, Ohio State is 16-11 overall and finished an even 10-10 record in the Big Ten Conference. 
The Buckeyes are led by all­Big Ten honoree outside hitter Jen Flynn, averaging 3.29 kills per game and 2.42 digs per 

GRAND OPENING Bombay Boutique 
Friday, Saturday, Sunday everything 15 % off!! 
Edison Plaza • 1635 Edison Road • Corner of Edison and 23 • Next door to LULA'S CAFE 271-8865 Monday-Saturday 10 am -8 pm • Sunday 12 pm -6 pm 
Large Selection Of: 

u\ni91,1e dl"esses1 ski.--ts1 and blo1,1ses f.--om cas1,1al to ele9avtt 
• f-lavtd-knit sweate.,,-.s1 jackets1 9loves1 mittens1 carJs fl""om Ec1,1adol" 
• Bedsp1-4eads from Jvtdia • Silvev l"ivt9s avtd eal"l"ivt9s 
• Shids fov-mevt 

• 
Bv-onze B1,1ddhas and othel" l"eli9io1,1s ad • Papy1-4l,\S paivttivt9s fl"om Egypt 


• 
Jvtcense and incense holdev-s 

• 
t-land-cal"ved wooden boxes 

• 
Stone cal"vings 


• 
t-land-cal"ved mahogany and teak fl,\v-nit1,1l"e 

• 
And m1,1ch mov-e! 






Gift Certificates Available 
game. Big Ten honorable men­tion selection Rosie Snow is first on the team in kills per game with a 3.56 mark and in digs per game with a 2.69 aver­age. Setter Katie Virtue was named the Big Ten freshman of the Year. 
"l don't know a lot about Ohio State, but we'II probably learn as much as we can in thP­next couple days and just take it one game at a time," Brown said. 
The Irish will look to Big East player of the Year Mary Leffors to lead them in the tournament. The middle blocker set Big East records for most blocks (671 and highest hitting percentage (.47 5) in conference matches and is currently ranked fifth nationally in blocks per game. 
Leffers is joined by junior Denise Boylan on the all-Big Easl first learn, while junior Christi Girton and sophomore Kristy Kreher were named to the all-conference second team. Boylan ranks fourth in the Big East in assists per game in con­ference matches and has led the Irish to a .280 hitting per­centage and a phenomenal .359 hitting percentage in Big East matches. 

GThe winner of the Notre Dame-Ohio State match will face the winner of the UCLA (25-3)-Eastern Washington (24­
7) contest on Sunday at 5 p.m. Notre Dame faced Eastern 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
,4 Stud.e1tt eham6er /ltusic:. W.ec:.ltal 

Washington a year ago for the first time in the first round of the 1998 NCAA Tournament at Stanford, defeating them in four games before falling to the Cardinal. Should Notre Dame and sixth-ranked UCLA face each other on Sunday, it would be tho first meeting between the two schools. 


...w--___

..,_____________ 
Friday, December 3, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish prepare to take on No. 10 Tar Heels in tourney 

By KERRY SMITH Sports Writer 
The Irish will have their hands full when they travel to Virginia to take on the Tar I !eels of North Carolina Saturday in the first round of the Wachovia's Womcm Invitational Tournament in women's basketball action. 
i\t 4-1 this season, the No. JO Tar Heels will pose a formidabh~ challenge as the Irish will try to capture the championship titln in the four-team tournament. 
"They're a tough team and they're really athletic," said freshman guard Alicia Hatay. "We're going to have to come out stroug and keep our intensity up to win." 
The Irish are coming off a 77 ­57 routing of Butler in Notre Dame's home open(lr on Thursday. Led by center flulh Riley and Balay, the Irish took control of the front and back courts from the outset of" tho game.
MIKE HARRISrfhe Observer 
Ratay came up ½ithin 16 points

Sophomore guard Ericka Haney passes the ball in Notre Dame's 77-57 win over Butler. The 
to lead the offense, while Hiley

Irish travel to Virginia to take on the No. 10 Tar Heels in the Wachovia's Invitational Saturday. 
was big on defense, tallying s1wen blocked shot,; in just 'J 9 minutes. 
"I was forcing shoti, in our loss to Illinois," said Ratay. "The dif­fercnce in the game against Butler was that I was just letting 
Fudge-House.com 
Free Fudge, cllecll nout 

•• ,,..,; J:. 
' . ? ~-. ~ '--~-;;:t:1.•1~
i?/ttitif r~·.. . .,.,;•=.•:•.··--~ 
the shots happen. We k1lpt giving the ball to Huth because sho wa,<; having an awfisome game." 
Guard Nicle Ivey added 1:1 points in the victdry. 
The Irish (2-1) struggled in their second game to put an 11ffec­tive defense on the court, but showed no signs 'of woaknnss Thursday, as they went on a H>-0 nm midway through thn first half' to break open thn game. 
Tho Irish will look to continue thoir strong play against the Tar Ifeels. 
"W1;1're trying to focus on rebounding against North Carolina," said llatay. "They crash the boards rnally w111l and so we're going to need to work to stop them." 
The Tar I lnels entnr tho tourna• ment al'tnr a dose win over the Sun Devils of Arizona Stato. In a game that was decided by a bas­ket at Urn buzzer, the Tar llnels had trouble putting the unranked Sun Devils away early. 
In order to beat tho Tar I leels. the Irish will have to contain potontially-explosivc forward LaQuanda Barskdale. Barksdale scored a game-high 24 points against the Sun Devils and has proved to bn a force both offen­sively and defonsively throughout the entire season. 
This is the first meeting between the Irish and the Tar Heels. The winner of' tlrn Notre Dame-North Carolina matchup will face either Lib11rty or Rkhmond in Urn final round on Sunday. The Irish met the Flames and the Spiders once each and were victorious in both games. 

Annual Skating Party Sunday, December 5th 
Many Notre Dame Students choose not to drink. 
5:00 -6:30 pm
For those who do drink, males average 1 time a week ND Ice rink (JACC) and females 2 times a month. 
*Based on randomly samoled self-report in Spring 19avi&ii~foro. i::ampus N 
•Bring $1 if you want to rent skates 
A messagefrom Pll · •Christmas snacks provided & ndDrug 

OPEN FORUM 
SLF Auditions
Open to students who have December 6 suggestions about SUB programming 
Big Daddy 

8:00 in SUB office 
Tuesday, December 7  7:30  December 2-4  
Montgomery Theater  
December 12th  
Movie Marathon December 7th  Stress Reliever  

r w 
• w 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, December 3, 1999 hand, have played four top-25 counter Langhi at the domi­said. "He should be all right." Although the squad only quali­
Irish 

teams. nant big man position. Murphy Vanderbilt also has a talent­fied for the NCAA tournament 
continued from page 24 

Vanderbilt is undefeated and has won at home against Belmont. Tennessee-Martin and East Tennessee State. If the Commodores defeat the Irish, they will become only the second Vandy squad since 1986 to open the year 4-0. 
While the Commodores have yet to lose a game, lhey haven't faced a ranked oppo­nent. The Irish, on the other 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
a team like Santa Clara four goals and expect to win." 
To stop the potent Bronco attack, the center Irish backs -Jen Grub and Kelly Lindsey -must slow down the Santa Clara offense while goalkeep­er LaKeysia Beene must make the big saves. Beene has played especially strong in the post season -making key saves against Stanford and Nebraska in the third and quarterfinal rounds, respec­lively. 
"We need to have the kind of performance we have had from them the last two or three NCAA games. Grubb and Kelly Lindsey both need to have great games," Waldrum said, "Keysia needs to come up big for us against. Against Stanford she made some saves that won the game for us. Against Nebraska she came up big for us as well." 
The Irish face one of the best 1-2 scoring combos in the nation in Aly Wagner and Mandy Clements. Wagner just missed making the 1999 World Cup team while Clements leads the nation in scoring with 71 points. Both Wagner and Clements are two of five· finalists for the Hermann award, which is given to the country's top female soccer player. 
Most of soccer analyzers are not giving the fifth-seeded Irish much of a chance against the No. 1 Broncos. Collegesoccer.com has made Santa Clara a 4:1 favorite. 
"We kind of feel like the pressure is completely on Santa Clara. For us the only pressure is what we are putting on ourselves," Waldrum said. «The feeling I am getting listening to most of the media talk around here is that most of them don't think we have a chance. We kind of like that." 
The semifinals will be tele­vised at 10 p.m. tonight on channel 46. The winner of the Santa Clara-Notre Dame game will face the winner of the Penn State-North Carolina game at 4 p.m. Sunday on ESPN. 
One challenge for the Irish will be containing forward Dan Langhi, who was named a pro­soason All-American. The 6­foot-11 Langhi is ave.raging 
19.7 points per game this sea­son, and scored 33 points in the Commodores' 68-63 victo­rv over the Irish in 1998. 
•"He's got a lot of skill levels," Palmer said. "Whoever match­es up against him is going to have a tough time." 
The Irish have 6-foot-10 sophomore Troy Murphy to 
leads Notre Dame with 26 points per game, and has had five double doubles so far this year. 
Other players down low for Notre Dame are forwards David Graves and Harold Swanagan, along with Palmer and freshman Jere Macura off the bench. 
Macura, currently being treated for vertigo according to Palmer, should return in shape by tip-off. 
·'I-le's a tough kid," Palmer ed back court duo in senior guards Atiba Prater and James Strong. 

Strong is the team's second leading scorer and averages 
4.3 assists per game, while Prater leads Vanderbilt in assists. 
Dillon and Martin Ingelsby are the starting guards for Notre Dame, while freshman reserve Matt Carroll has a soft shooting touch. 
Vanderbilt also has new head coach Kevin Stallings. 
once in the past six years, Stallings may turn that record around. As a colleglate player and a coach, Stalling's teams have made post-season appearances 18 of 21 years. 
"Coach talked about break­ing the game up into four 10­minute quarters," Dillon said. "We're hoping to put Vandy back on their heels and set the tempo early on. We're going to set our game plan and stick to it no matter what Vanderbilt throws at us." 


Experi 
·ng wi 
aker? 
motio 
resume 


oney 
$$$$$ 


Work for the Observer Ad Design Department 
If you are a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior with Mac skills and want to work for a few hours a week call Brett Huelat at 246 ..1488 or stop by the Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Payf! Very Flexible!!! 

This Saturday Notre 
,c:1me Hockey·ii···an st. 
'£% g .

J6y.ce (?enter Fieldhouse 
J;'i~t tit~ game for a 
nci!-. to~wln a Sony 
Playstdilon and game pack from K-B Toysl 

Friday, December 3, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
Wl\'{t.l'e, "I Wt.~ 60\~6 ,o N.t..ltJi:. Ei~Tt.:,' '-.)~f\: pf:,l(...OUT M.\\'!>ER I.WI" ntl~~ U ~"E. ffEl.-11\JG, 1 t,.N SttlO T. S~lJt.P \iJt\\T ·w t£CIDE. If.' s '3El1WSE OF SOME '' C.\\RI$Tl'\11.5 61FT 1'1-IIN6'' 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
UM, JASON, You  ll·IIS IS OEC£M8ER!  MAYBE '1'0\J CAN  
l"hGHT WANT  SLEDS HAVE PRI0R1TY  SLED o\JER HERE,  G  
/  To MOVE.  OVER FR1S8EES!  J"ASoN ­I DR•88LEO  
SoME ICE CREAM.  
English major shock.  
beam.1@nd.edu  

64 Delivery persons' info 
DOWN 
1 Site of the ancient Olympic games 
2 Bird named for its call 
3 "Political Discourses" author 
4 Sheepish 5 Rolls out the 
red carpet for 6 Suffix with verb 7 Big zero 8 Rolled by 9 Less enthused 
10 Strauss's • und Verklii.rung" 11 Certain 
Protestant: Abbr. 12 Sting operation? 13 Roll out the red 
carpet for 
14 ~~~j0~~~f!on 
15 Casting requirement? 22 Of a sacred text 24 Unprotected from the sun 26 Common prefix 
with phobia 
-,,+,-,+-,~ ...-:::+:-:,1-,E:1 27 _-Pei (dog) 29 Moving sight 30 Mauna 32 Cambridge 
University college 35 Acting tor 
-=-t....,......-=-+-+--+--+--i 36 Concerto ..,,......,,.,i--e-ii-=-i-=.-G-+-0 S I S instrument .......,......._.__._......,_o.....__w O R E s T E S 37 Scents organ 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
~-------------------------------------------------------·-~---------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN  46556  .J  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name ----------------------------­ ..  
Address------------------­City _______ State ____ Zip______  


antelope peg 
58 Leap at the 40 "MS. Found in a 52 Philippics ballet 
Bottle" writer 42 Heavyweight champ before Dempsey 45 Point (southernmost point in continental 
Europe) 
47 Brusque 
48 Long-necked 
instrument 
53 Nav. ratings 59 Metal containers
54 "Good Luck, Miss Wyckoff'' 
61 Asian occasion novelist 62 Austrian article 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ouv Osbounw, f.:,1tar111,1 Witt, Bnan llrni,,111, And, \\'dl1a11,s, Ric~ Mears · 
Happy llirthday: t1f,,•11 up ,111d kt tht• world h.how \•\'hat \Pll <1n• trying to acco,npltsh, ,1nd ~·t)LI \\'ill l"'l' suc­n~ssful. You can expect li..l exp1:riencl) new adventun•s th,1t \\"Ill lead to greater kno,vled~e D1~1..-t.H'l'r ,·our­self and what 1·ou re,1111· l\'ant to dt> Your munbe rs: 1, 18, 21i. -~ l. 40, 4h 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Problems at home \\'tll esc.il,1t,• Deception is likel\' at an emotional level. Your te111per 1s not go111g to be easv to control. Don't 1ump to con­clusions without hal"lng ,111 the perti­nent iacts 011 hand. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You ,are likelv to O\'Prreact tl1 emotion(1I situation·, II is best to step back tro111 the situation rather thi111 take sides or n1ake hasty decisions regarding your response. Avoid senous talks 000 
GEMINI (May 21-)une 20): You 
-will probablv ha,·e problems with your partner if you are bus~· doin~ your own th111g You ""'II pick up information thal will t'IMble vou to change your professional d1rec:hon in the new year 00000 CANCER (June 21-Juiv 22): You will be ready to argut.> ,,·1"th anyrnw and everyone. Somel1ne \'OU care about may 1101 be completdv honest with )'OU. Control vour temper 1f 1·ou wish to avoid separatiL)ll. 00 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Under­handedness is quite possible. Don't tell an~·one ~·olH per~<.H1,1l St"LTt"t~.. Expand your circle of triends b,· join· 111g wnrthwhill' groups Y,n, should consider helping the homelt>ss thi, iestive season. 0000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Make 
EUGENIA LAST  
~'lllll' pl,11h l.1rl'lulh· Hl1 sun• lo m,11'.l' noll'S l'l'':.!ilrd111g ,lf'PtH11tme11ts ot d1rL·d1ll1h l,1ur 1111p,1t1e11Cl' will bl., 11llt1Ct'c1blt· ll• t1lhl•f<; Tn to (lllltn1I vour tL'111p,·1 000 I.IBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): lnl"ltc· friends un•r rlwn• will bl~ plent\' ol prcp~11\ltwn~ for tht:> lt·st1\'e sec1son goin~ lll1 at ~-our pi,ll'l'. Pel\' extra cll­tentwn hi ,·,ll1r m,,tl'. Be .iware th,11 sonwo1w m,1\' il'l'd ,·nu false 111fnr­111at1011 000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): R,,1­ati,·0s m,l_'' ht• dt•mand1ng. Don't dilll\\' them t,, 111lr111ge 011 the tune vou require tn 1,,llo\\' through \\"1th 1·our 011·11 pl,ws. Consider taking a tnp, or at k•,,st g,•t nut of the house ior tlw d,11· 000 SAGITTAHIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Crn1c,•11tratl' 011 11101ie1·111aki11g 1dec1~. Y(lu Lan makt> a little extra cash thrln1gh \'our rreat1\'e endeavors Take tmlt' 1,, upgrade vnur loving quar­ters or dt~1... oratt" for the festi,·ittl·S 0000 CAl'HICOHN tDec. 22-Jan. l'I): Soco,11 ,1ct11·1t1L's that 1m'C1lve the wh,lle l,1111111 ll'ill be L"'llJO,'able. Take• tinw to h,t,•n tu children and lwlp them with d1tt1cult projl'cts. 00 AQL'AHIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Get intn \.l,ur lrt'~1ti\'t" proJeds. You \\'ill "·,frk t1·,•II ,nth children. B.ir­ga111-hu11t111g will be successtul 11 you g,, slwpp1ng Ynu art• li~elr tn run intt' F't.'l1piL ll'l)t11 ~'CHJr p.1~t 00000 ' PISCES O·eb. lg-March 20): Tr,w­c•I will bnn.~ ,1d1·e11ture and sahst,,c­tion ,11,111~ with cultural k11<n,·1L•dg,• that will l 1Pl'll dours to inkrt'st1np. new lrit!1hi..:h1p-.. Suddl~n changP!-­111\'lllnng ~1 ,1tl'llt1,1l parlnl·rs \\'Ill sur• pnSt' \"Lill 00  • ...  

Birthday Baby: Tht' 111llrt' n1t1 do throughout 111,·. tlw 111<1re _1·011 will "-.1111 tu dC1. You are strong-11'1!1,•d and energetic. You 1qll 11e1•c•r bl' s«tJSIIL'd as ,1 bvstander, and the c•xperience \'OU ,KLJuire will n>ntnbutt> t,, 1·our succc•ss. 
(Need adl'i,e 7 CllL'ck out Euge111,1's "\\'l'I, ,11L-s ,11 ,islroadvic,•.cum. eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
~· Jt)'.N l'111H•r,1i 111\''"' ...,, 11dll,ll1 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Giving-up point 16 Provides means 
of escape 17 People at a special showing 18 Saint-Germain's river 19 Spring mo. 
20 rum 
21 PC site 23 Like Chianti 25 Certain no. 26 Grate 
-expectations? 28 Blanket 31 Buddy 33 X-ray spec 34 Kind of pen 38 Fast time 40 A person may 
be taken in by taking it 
41 Old trail destination 42 Trial and tribulation 
43 Boy armed with bows and arrows 
44 43-Across and others 46 Fork in the road 
47 Govt. money dispenser since 1946 
49 41-Across borderer: Abbr. 50 It's a wrap 53 Hot stuff 55 Initials in 19th­century lit. 57 Folk music accompaniment 60 Thin ice, e.g. 63 Boer War participant 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
o 
---:-11--:-,H~i-;.;..~1-N=-l --t--,-+--+-1-....-1-5-i 
1--:-,>-=-l--:-f-:-E~ 
M 

------------..---------r------------------•----------_...., 

Shooting for Success 
Freshman Alicia Ratay looks to ltad the Irish backcourt when Notre Dame takes on No. ro North Carolina on Saturday.
PORTS 
page 21 
~HE 

page 24 vnSERVER 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish look to avenge loss to Broncos in seniifinals 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sporrs Editor 
ln the biggest game of the season so far, the Notre Dame women's soccer team faces the Santa Clara Broncos -a team that defeated the Irish 4-2 in
• 
the regular season. 
Head coach Randy Waldrum said that his players are excit­ed for a rematch with Santa Clara and look for revenge on the team that dealt them their worst loss on the season. 
"I think they are really excit­ed about it," Waldrum said. "I know that sounds surprising but as poorly as they d.id the last time they faced each other, they are anxious to get on the field and try to redeem themselves." 
The Broncos jumped out to a 4-0 lead thanks to four goals in less than nine minutes. 19 sec­onds in the first half. The Irish battled back to score two sec­ond-half goals but a four-goal deficit is a steep hill to climb against any team -let alone the No. 1 ranked and unde­feated Broncos. 
Waldrum knows that his team can ill afford to fall behind the Broncos by four goals again. 
"Most of what we have to do to get ready is psychological," Waldrum said. "We can't spot 
see SOCCER/page 22 


FOOTBALL 
Recruits Illake first official visit 
By TIM CASEY Spons Writer 
... Several inches of snow blan­keted the ground. Instead of wearing shorts, students were bundled up in winter coats. There was no indication that winter would ever end. After growing up in Shreveport, La., it certainly was a unique atmos­phere for a young recruited quarterback named Arnaz Battle. But on that first weekend in December two years ago, after spending the past few days with the Irish football team, Battle had a good idea of where he wanted to spend the next four years of his life. "Going into the locker room, seeing that sign (Play Like a
t. 
Champion Today], seeing the gold helmets and the blue jer­seys was what stuck out," Battle recalled of his recruiting visit. "It was nice to sec first hand what I had heard all about." 
As a high school senio~ in the winter of 1997-98, Battle was highly recruited by the majority of the top football programs in the country. In fact, before spending the weekend at Notre Dame. Battle had scheduled official visits to Tennessee, Nebraska, Georgia and Texas A&M. 
But after spending the follow­ing weekend at Nebraska, Battle had already made his up his mind. So the current Irish quarterback cancelled his sub­sequent visits and decided on Notre Dame. 
"I was pretty sure I wanted to come here after the banquet but I still wanted to take more visits," Battle said referring to the aptly named banquet week­end because it coincides with the Notre Dame football ban­quet. "But after visiting Nebraska, I knew this [Notre Dame] was the place for me." 
Now, two years later, the scene remains the same on the first weekend in December. 
Only the names have changed. On this, the fu-st official visiting weekend for recruits, 18 high school seniors are expected to be on campus. Th.is period extends until the end of January, excluding the Christmas vacation. 
The first official day that play­ers can sign their letters of intent is Feb. 2. 
The recruits come from all over the United States; from large cities like Miami to .lesser­kn own areas like Copperas Cove, Texas. Their personalities may differ, their idea of an ideal school may not be the same and it's a near certainty that they all won't be wearing the Blue and Gold next fall. 
But the unanimous goal for the Irish coaching staff will be to try to convince each and every player that Notre Dame is the right fit ror them. 
"Anyone we bring to campus we would be very interested in," 
see RECRUITS/page 19 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish look to snap three­game losing streak 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The men's basketball team comes home to the Joyce Center to face the Vanderbilt Commodores with the goal of 
ending a three­game los­i n g streak. 
" 0 u r No. 1 goal is to start establish­


ing our Dohertywinning streak again," senior guard Jimmy Dillon said. "We've played some tough competition." 
The Irish, under first~year head coach Matt Doherty, began the season 3-0 for the 
first time in 11 years. They opened with a win over then­No. 4 Ohio State in the first round of the Pre-Season NIT. 
However, they dropped their next three contests to ranked foes Arizona, 
·Maryland and Indiana, all on the road. 
"We don't want to get into a rut where we're complacent with losing," senior forward Todd Palmer said. "We want to learn from a loss, but we don't want to expect to lose." 
Notre Dame dropped behind early in its three loss­es, leaving too much ground to make up. The team lost to Maryland by five and to Indiana in overtime. 
"I think it built more char­acter on our team," Dillon said. "Last year we kind of questioned whether we would have hung with a Maryland or an Indiana." 
see IRISH/page 22 
• 
NCAA Semi-finals at Wachovia Invitational vs. Santa Clara Richmond, Va. vs, Michigan State 
SPORTS *JI -~;J 
Friday, 6:30 p.m, Saturday-Sunday ~ Saturday, 7:05 p.m.
ATA . 
vs. Vanderbilt Volleyball ~ Saturday, 2 p.m. vs, Ohio State 
Saturday, 5 p.m. 

GLANCE • 




