
Every little piece of their heart 
Proudly waving their flags 
The U.S. Army rights a half-century-old mistake 
Thursday
Saint Mary ·s thespians remember the Vietnam 
War with ..A Piece ofMy Heart. ,. 
by recognizing the heroics ofone veteran. 
Scene . page 18 News . page 12 
NOVEMBER 11, 1999 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 50 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
STUDENT SENATE 

Members dissatisfied with GALA ad ban 
agreement to let the. University then-Univnrsity presidflnt
. Resolution, open 

handle accounting procedures. Father Theodorn llnsburgh to
letter address The 

The University also functions David Dzilldzic, then-editor in Observer and as a quasi-bill collector, gath­chief of The Observnr. ering the $12 yearly subscrip­In tlrn lntter, llesburgh

University relations 

tion fee with each student's stresses that he will not intm·­
tuition payment. These fees fere with the The Observer's By FINN PRESSLY constitute approximately 15 editorial content, the definition A•sistanr News Editor percent of The Observer's bud­or which includns advnrtisn­
get, she said. ments. Recently, this arrangement "The bottom line of' this issun
A tense, 130-minute meeting 

has caused problems as the is the independence of The
of Student Senate yielded a 

University has tried to use its Observer and the academic
resolution and an open letter 

oversight over that 15 percent freedom that underlies it." said
responding to the ongoing 

to dictate· The Observer's Matt Mamak, chief or staff for
debate regarding the 

advertising policy, Krupa the office of the student body
University's relationship with 

explained. In particular, the president.
The Observer. 

University Krupa
Michelle Krupa, editor in 

has set wclcomns
chief of' The Observer, 

"The bottom line ofthis issue is 
forth a a meeting
addressed the senate in order 

p O l i Cy the independence of The w i t h
to provide background on the 

dictating University
issue. Observer and the academic 
to The prnsident
"We are a newspaper serving 

freedom that underlies it. " 
Observer Father
a Catholic community. We are 

that it Edward
not a Catholic newspaper," she 

may not Malloy.
said. "We do not have an agen­Matt Mamak 
accept but said
da to promote Catholic teach­chief of staff, office of the student
advertise­that his
ing. If we do promote Catholic 

body president
me n ts office had
teaching through stories we 

f r o m refused to
cover or ads we run, it is coin­

G A L A schedule a
cidental to our primary obliga­

ND/SMC (Gay and Lesbian time for him to meet with rep­
tion to report and provide 

Alumni of Notre Dame/Saint resentatives from the newspa­
information responsibly." 

Mary's College). . per.
According to Krupa, the 

She maintained that as an "We have twice requested a
Universtity functions as The 

independent publication, The meeting with Father Malloy."
Observer's accountant, rather 

Observer has created and she said. "We were told it
than publisher. The Observer, 

abides by its own policies, not would be impossible to meet
which is an independent stu­

those presented by the with Father Malloy due to his
dent-run organization, entered 

University. busy schedule."
into the University's account­

"We have our own policies, Fisher senator Philip Dittmar
ing system following financial 

which, over the years, hun­expressed outrage over
trouble in the early '80s due to 

dreds of student journalists Malloy's refusal to meet with
misappropriation of funds, she 

have collectively created for The Observer.
said. The University loaned the 

the newspaper," she explained. "The president of our univer­
newspaper enough funds to 

The senate was also present­
relieve the situation in 

ed with a 198 3 letter from
exchange for The Observer's 
see SENATE/page 4 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


SMC considers future of Dalloways, Observer policies 
. Open forum will address ad ban  The governing body is inter­cste d in student's feolings towards what The Observer can  moved to a new location. Due to tho age of tho building, it is pos­sible that the building would not  BOG was to build a new Dalloways, taking as many characteristics from the original  "This increase would signifi­cantly enhance the quality of current programs. assist tlrn  
content  and cannot print as an indepen­ survive  the  as  possible.  students' ability to implement  
dent newspaper connected to  move,  Duba  and  to  con­ traditional programs in a fiscal­ 
By KATIE MILLER New, Writn  Catholic schools, said student body prnsident Nancy Midden. A proposal is in the process of being drafted, and will be pre­ said. A second plan calls for Lim demoli­ "We are trying to let the student body have input."  struct the new building in a similar style as the  ly responsible manner, and sup­port the evolution of future co­curricular opportunitir.s." said Stud-1rnt Govr. rnnrnn t Advisor  
Saint Mary's Board of (;ovnrnancl' announced a plan to orga­nize an  sented to the Board of Governance in coming wtrnks. The forum will likely occur before the Thanksgiving holi­ tion of Dalloways, and rebuild­ing at a new  Nancy Midden student body president  original Dalio ways. "The new building will  Georgeanna Hosenbush. . An endorsement for a study day at the encl of the semnster was also approved.  
all~schoul  day.  site  using  bo structural­ The study day would takn  
forum  to  "Wtl are trying to lel lhti stu­ what can  be  ly  sound,"  effoct rwxt semester.  Scluidulml  
discuss  dent body have input," Midden  preserved  said Duba. "A  for  the Friday bef'orn  exam  
l  h  C  said.  from the original building.  possible  location  is  Lake  week,  students  would  bn  
aclminis­ The fate of' Dalloways coffee  A third proposal would be to  Marian."  exempt from assignments, and  
lrativn ban  clubhouse was also discussed.  demolish Dalloways and relo­ no classos would bn sdwclulnd.  
011 The Obs1wv11r's Middenad VI\ r tis -ing rights Wmln1isday night.  Julie Duba. cumpns dubs com­missioner, presented three options rngarding tho future of the building. First, the clubhouse could be  cate the rurrent student use of the building to the new student center, slated for construction in the Campus Master Plan. Duba's recommendation to  In other BOG news: . HOG voted to endorse an increase in the student activity fee.  The study day proposal still needs endonrnment from Student t\etivities Board and Residnnce Hall Association to take effect.  

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, November 11, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 

We Rellletnber 
In Flanders fields the poppies blow Between the crosses, row on row ... At 11 a.m. on t-he 11th day of the 11th month 
in 1918, an armisti.ce took effect that ended the Great War which raged across Europe from 1914 to 1918; a war which left more than 8 million dead. morn than 20 million wounded. 
Today we commemorate that armistice and celebrate what is called Veteran's Day in the United States, Remembrance Dav in Europe and Canada. 
Veteran's Day is a forgot­ten holiday in the United States. It's mentioned in newspapers, it appears on calendars. our veterans and their families commemo­rate it. But it passes the rest of us by. 
It shouldn't. 
Last year I was in London for Remembrance Dav. The entire city -the enti;e 


Laura Petelle 
Assistant 

Managing 
Editor 

country -stopped at 11 a.m. to observe two minutes of silence in memory of those who died to secure the freedom of Britain. Cars pulled to the sides of the roads, shoppers stood still in stores and bowed their heads, baggage belts at Heathrow stopped. 
Two minutes of silent memory is the least we owe the millions who have served to protect our country's freedom in the past two and a quarter centuries. Since 1775, more than a million men and women have died defending the United States. Since 1980, 745 men and women have died in armed conflicts. During your lifetime, 7 45 soldiers have paid the ulti­mate price to guarantee your right to life, liber­ty and the pursuit of happiness. 
The lines that begin and end this column were written by Major John McCrae, a young Canadian surgeon, after the Second Battle of Ypres in World War I. At Second Ypres, the world witnessed the first large-scale use of poi­son gas in war, as the Germans released 5700 canisters of chlorine gas, which sank into the foxholes and trenches. forcing the infantry to choose death by suffocation or death by enemy fire. 
The men who choked on that gas at Ypres ­who went over the top at Gallipoli -who drowned in the mud at Passchendaele -were not protecting some abstract idea. We enjoy the freedoms they won for us every single day. We would not have the academic freedom we rely on as members of a university if millions of soldiers had not put their lives on the line to defend it. We who dissent would not be free to protest our government's military actions if the brave men and women of the United States Armed Forces were not willing to fight to the death to defend the Constitution. 
At Arlington -in Normandy -in forgotten graves that only God remembers lie millions of soldiers who paid that ultimate price. Millions more carry the wounds of war -physicaLand psychological. There are 25 million veterans living in the United States today. These men and women offer us the greatest gift imagin­able. They were willing to die so that we might be free. ...,.._ ­
To repay their sacrifice in the only way we can, we have a sacred duty to honor our free­dom and remember those who fought -and continue to fight -so bravely for it. 
To you from failing hands we throw 
The torch; be yours to hold it high. 
lfye break faith with us who die 
We shall not sleep, though poppies grow 
in Flanders fields. 

The 1,ieu•s expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Noreen Gilespie Julie Hamilton 
Matthew Smith Mike Vanega~ 
Sam Derheimer Graphics 
Sports Katie Kennedy Kathleen O"Brien Production Viewpoint Lauren Berrigan 
A.J. Boyd Lab Tech Ernesto Lacayo 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durinE; exam and vacation period,. The Observer is a member of the A..!isociac~d f>r~i. All r~production rights ~re reserved. 
THIS WEEK Ar NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday Friday 
. 
Hypnotist: Tom . Now Available: "Social Delucca, performing at Concerns Courses" book at St£'pan Center, 7 p.m., $2 the Center for Social 

. 
Minority Law School Concerns Forum: Presentations and . Film : "The General's refreshments. at the Law Daughter," Cushing School, 6 p.m. Auditorium. 8 & 


10:30 p.m. 

Saturday 
. Film: "The General's Daughter." Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 
10:30 p.m. 

. Science and Technology 
Competition: Midwest regionals, CCE Auditorium. 8 to 11 :30 
Compiled from UWire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Wisconsin fees case heard by Supreme Court 
WASHlNGTON 

The Supreme Court heard debate Tuesday on whether manda­tory student fees at state universities can support student organizations promoting political beliefs. 
The case. board of regents of the University of Wisconsin vs. Southworth, stems from a University of Wisconsin-Madison complaint that student fees are used to promote lib­eral organizations, and students who do not support these groups are required to pay nonetheless. 
"We really felt the university engaged in unconstitutional policy by forcing students ... to fund activi-· ties of private student organizations not directly associated with the uni­versity," said Scott Southworth, one of the three original plaintiffs. 
The Court is expected to reach a decision sometime next year. The 
U. Florida racial preferences to end 
GAINESVILLE. Fla. 
Gov. Jeb Bush issued an executive order Tuesday that will take the first steps in eliminating racial preference in college admissions. Bush's "One Florida Initiative" also includes programs designed to bolster Florida's K­12 education system and increase the number of minorities enrolled at public universities. "We can increase opportunity and diversity in the state's univer­sities and in state contracting without using policies that discriminate or that pit one racial group against another," Bush said Tuesday. The plan calls for the elimination of race as a factor in admissions decisions. Race is one of many factors currently used in "alterna­tive admissions" in the state university system. Other factors include athletic ability, income level and geo­graphical location. Last year, more than 3,200 students, or 11 percent of the incoming freshman class, were alternatively admitted to SUS institutions. By continuing to use those other factors and not race. Bush said diver­sity can be achieved. He also ca.lied for an additional $20 million in need-based scholarship aid, and anti­
affirmative action in 2000. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatuces 

Thursday ~ 51 43 Friday 
35 Saturday ~ 66 4,5 Sunday ~.. 62 

. .·.~ ¥,;:1
Monday .. f':1~ ""·"" ,-: _,.' .. ::: •.• . ·_
~J'•·'?.J'\,•''--v-'..,,., ··...,,_/ .. 

~-~,~e~Q (f ~ u 
Show8rs T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Jee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V,s Assoc.lated Pross GmphicsNet 
Sunday 
. Church Service: In the Basilica. of Sacred Heart, 10 and 11.45 a.m. 
. Mara Fox Fun Run: 
Regstration begins at 
10:30 a.m., race begins from Lyons Hall at 11 a.m. 

"The basic mission ofthe 
university is to provide a 
forum for all kinds ofideas" 
Katharine Lyall 
President, University of Wisconsin 
case could impact state institutions across the country who use manda­tory student fees as a way of funding student organizations. 
Th€ University and its board of regents said the mandatory student fees help provide educational experi­ences for students. 
"The basic mission of the universi­ty is to provide a forum for all kinds of ideas," said Katharine Lyall, president of the University of Wisconsin system. '"We provide the resources that enable many more viewpo.ints to be expressed on cam­pus." 
Lower courts nave sided with Soutliworth, saying the mandatory fee violates students' constitutional rights. 
The high court Tuesday challenged the university's claim that the school is providing both services to student · groups and promoting a forum for ideas. 
"You could call any speech service to students, helping them learn things," Justice Antonin Scalia said. 
But other members of the court, particularly Justice Stephen Breyer. said minority opinions would not be represented without distribution of funds in a "viewpoint-neutral" fash­ion, as the school describes it's procedur:e. 
Students applaud teacher's return 
TAMPA, Fla. 
University of South Florida students in Introduction to Art class expected answers Tuesday morning. Instead, they got results. Fine Arts Dean Ronald Jones came to the class to meet with more than ·200 students who protested the reassignment of a graduate teaching assistant Thursday. Jones told the class the student teacher would be returning. Jones left and class went on as scheduled with a new instructor offering up a lecture. Ten minutes later, though, the artist quietly. walked into the back of the lecture ha.II. Less than a minute later, one student noticed and began clapping. That triggered more applause and eventually led to a standing ovation for Washington, who remained in the back wearing sunglasses. "Thank you. I appreciate all of your efforts," he said. Washington was reassigned by the university I\Jov. 2 after a parent complained a photo Washington showed in class made his daughter feel sexually harassed.The photo depicted Washington, a black man, having sex with a white woman. It was used in a class discussion on the effects of stereotypes, Elmeer said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

~lgh Low Showers Rain T•storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloud)' 
\/111 Ass.,Cllllad Press 

Atlanta 71 55 Dallas Baltimore 56 52 Fredonia Boston 42 42 New Orleans Buffalo 39 32 New York Chicago 52 44 Orchard Park 
I I 
I , l 

-----. 
80 60 Philadelphia 56 49 43 34 San Francisco 68 56 82 58 St Louis 59 47 49 49 Tampa 83 62 39 32 Wash DC 58 52 
/ 

Thursday, November 11, 1999 Tbe Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Neyrey: Jesus changed traditional views of manhood 
. Sexual status, insults are key to manhood 
By BASIL FARJO 
New, Writer 
What makes a man a man'? Tim tru<lilional l!eurnw view of' manhood was sexual prowess, insulting flllf:mies and saving faC(\. lhJwev1H, .IPsus radically challenged tliesti notions in his Sermon un the Mount. nxpluitrnd Fat.her Jpromf' NPyrPy, a prnfossor of theology who spm.:ializes in N,~w Testament Biblical theol­ogy, on Tuesday. 
"(llonor( is worth, reputa­tion, th11 rr:sp(ict you get from 
oL h r: r p1w p Jc , " he s a i d . "Belii,vn mt1, il was tlrn only 
game in town where people died for it." 
Jesus lived in a culture that placed a high value on male honor. Neyrey explained that Lo insult one's enemies was a primary way of achieving honor, much like rnceiving a merit-based reward in today's 
culture. Insults typical­ly were repaid with violence, not otlHH insults. 
Jesus' Sermon on Lim Mount includ­ed antitheses between tradi­tional Hebraic teaching and 
"Everything is in front of everybody else. Everyone is watching this tennis 
game. 

Father Jerome Neyrey Theology professor 
what he himself preached. For instance, Christ proclaimed, "It is said thou shall not kill; and whoevflf kills shall be 
The Observer. 
We 're where you get your news. 
liable to judgment. But l say to you, whoever is angry with his brother will be liable to judg­ment ... and whoever says, 'You fool' wtll be liable to fiery Gehenna." 
The worst. hurt comes from names, Neyrey said. "One of Lhe worsl names 
was 'stu­pid.' Jesus challenged the idM that achiev­ing honor entailed humiliating one's ene­mies," hP said. 
Jesus said that when 
someone is making a sacrifice and remembers a dispute he has with another person, that person must leave his sacrifice at the altar and go make peace with that person, according to Neyrey. That meant withdrawing chal­lenges and foreswearing revenge. This message had special significance because leaving something important, such as a sacrifice, unfin­ished was seen as disgrace­ful, Neyrey said. Jesus said that making peace was more important than avoiding 
cmbarrassment. 

Insults had a particularly 
powerful impact because they 
were public challenges to a 
==================================,i 

''You will go to Stepan Center TONIGHT at 7 PM to see 
You will pay just $2 at the door. 

event."
You will not miss this 
www.nd.edu/~sub 
man's honor. 
"Everything is in front of everybody else. Everyone is watching this tennis game," Neyrny said. 
Female sexuality played a major role in defining male honor. Seducing a woman meant disgracing her father and husband. 
Jesus took the prohibition· against adultery a slep l'urther by saying that a man who has thoughts about another man's wife has already committed adultery with her, albeit in his mind, Ncyrey explained. 
Jesus said that if a man's eye caused him to sin, he should pluck it out, because it would be better to enter heav­nn without an eye than to bP damned. 
Jesus also said that if a man's hand causes him to sin, he should cut it off. The llebrew Bible uses 'hand' to euphemistically refer to a 
man's sex organ. 
"I can undArstand take out the eye, but what about the other piece of anatomy'?" Neyrey asked. 
In Jewish culture at the time, men would praise 01m another for their sexual feats. Also, it was commonplaee for a man to divorce his wifo to marry a woman with a greater dowry. Jesus was essentially telling his male followers to reject the idea of a manhood that involved sexual aggres­sion and the acquiring of "tro­phy wives," Neyrey said. 
The Sermon on the Mount also disputed the idea of "an Aye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth." Injury to parts of the 
face were the most disgracP-ful blows. But Jesus said to turn the other cheek. To do that would be to invite extreme dis­grace in addition to that already incurred, Neyroy said. 
The idea that retaliation was natural and good was either universal pr nearly so in the ancient world, according to Neyrey. Many great thinkers of the period who am seen as the founding minds of Westnrn culture wrote in favor of this view..To fail tu even try to take rovenge on an offendnr was seen as defrauding one's family. 
Jpsus unsntthid this picture by saying that God sends the rain and the sun on both the good people and the bad. In other words, Neyrey said. God refuses to have enemies. 
ThP.reforo, the logic ol' the ancienL world would hold that the God presP-nted by .Jnsus was honorless, according to Neyrey. 
The domain of' men in llebrew society was outdoors, where men were cxpectod to nat and talk tognther. Wonrnn stayed in tho borne. 
"A man couldn't say, 'Tm going to take a nap,"' said Neyrey. That would Im unmanly. Jesus denounced those who made public shows of their worship. lie instructed the men instead lo pray in a room in their houses, with tlrn doors locked. This conflicted with the public aspect t.hat played such a large part in the life of Jewish men. .Jesus was telling the men to go and wor­ship in the world or women, Ncyrey said. 





rffle1NI !CINI J\\JIINl!Ofj~
If th~re may be a reason you are not listed as a junior by the registrar, and you still wish to participate in Junior Parent's Weeknd, pick up a form in the JPW office in the mezzanine of Lafortune student center. 
Some possile circumstances may be: 
• 
you were abroad last spring 

• 
you have sophomore/senior hours 

• 
special needs 



Also, if you would like to be entered into the lottery drawing for reservations for your parents for the Morris Inn the week­end of JPW, stop by the Morris Inn before Nov 22 to fill out and submit an application. 
Last but not least. Ms;· ''i4f1{'''!l~~ ' .··•· 
'a ftmi.(fo ~nock yourself out! 
:·:_:> :_·· ___.,..., :1~·:>· ···:::: -·-<·.:'(~lF:1 
ove. 
039 C. and 18063 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 11, 1999 
ACE program mulls expansion 
. Program may head to L.A. for diversity 
By LIZ ZANONI 
NewsWrit<'r 
The Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) program is considering an expansion into the Los Angeles area, said John Staud. ACE's director. 
Although the program will not make any decisions 
about the "[Los Angeles] has the 
move until fastest growing diocese after the appli­
in the cttrJ:ntry and 
cant pool is 
draws its roots from all
established in March. Staud over the world." said that the Cardinal 
Al Stashls
Mahony, arch­bishop of l.os associate director, ACE program 
Angeles, has been asking ACE w consid­er expanding into his diocese for the past five years. 
Staud said ACE is interest­ed in Los Angeles because the program wants, "to target schools serving needy and ethically diverse popula­tions." Staud added that mass is said every weekend in over 50 different lan­guages in the Los Angeles diocese. 
Al Stashis, associate direc­tor of ACE said that Los Angeles has, "a richness in ethnicity that represents the universal church." Staud added that Los Angeles rep­resents an example of the broad globalization of the Catholic Church in the world of the 20th century. 
The ACE program hopes that an expansion into the Los Angeles area will instruct students and teach­ers how to adapt and change in a culturally diverse area. 
Stashis added 
that Los Angeles, "has the fastest growing diocese in the coun­trv and dr·aws its roots from all over t h e world." 
Staud said that because 
California ranks high in terms of the number of out of state students who attend Notre Dame, Los Angeles may be of particular interest for students who want to do service in their home state. 
Although Stashis said that ACE directors are still in the "talking mode," they are assured that the expansion would greatly contribute to both ACE participants and the diocese of Los Angeles. 

The Observer. 
We write it, you read it. 


''It's a Wonderful Life'' 
Stage adnptation ofa classic holiday favorite. 

Sunday, 

November21 at 7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 





1Mf='Jc~
THE ARf!..­
~NOTRE DAME, IN 
Fotticketinformationcontact 284 4626 
the SaintMacy's College Box Office ­
Senate 
continued from page 1 
sity is too busy for his own stu­dents," Dittmar said. "This is appalling. I don't understand how this can happen." 
Represenatives from The Observer have met with Malloy's liaison to tho newspa­per, Chandra Johnson. 
"She [Johnson] said, on one occasion, that nothing in writ­ing exists to describe such a relationship and that Notre Dame is not willing to create such a statement," Krupa said. 
for that mason, the senate drafted a resolution to create an administrative committee that would arrive at a concrete University policy regarding the administration's relationship to The Observer. 
"Father Malloy said the cur­rent policy is not based on a new policy, but rather a long­standing one," said Keough Hall senator Brian O'Donoghue. "What policy do they keep referring to as their authority and power if they don't have a policy'?" 
"The reason you have an unwritten policy is so you can change it as you go along," 
is overstepping his bounds," Dittmar said. 
Some members of the senate then debated the actual defini­tion of the editorial indepen­dence assured by Father 

Dittmar said. The resolu­
"IfThe Observer is an
tion eventual­ly passed independent newspaper with 27 mem­
as it claims to be. then I 
bers of the 
think anything {Malloy}
senate voting in favor and does is response to what one voting 
The Observer does ... is 
against. 
overstepping his 
Following a five-minute bounds." recess, the senate turned 
Philip Dittmar 
its att,mtion 
Fisher Hall senator
to an open letter from tho senate 
Hesburgh's 1983 letter, and whether or not it includes advertising. 
"Editorial indepen­
dence  is  
across  the  
board  
cover  to  

cover," said Pasqueril Ia West senator 
A u d r a 
Ilagan. "This isn't 

that officially declares their dissatisfaction with the ban on GALA advertisements. 
"If The Observer is an inde­pendent newspaper as it claims to be, then I think any­thing [Malloy] does in response to what The Observer doos ... 
a newspaper that just goes to [Malloy!. This is a newspaper for us," said farley Hall sena­tor Chrissie Veliky. 
The senate\ voted to approve the letter with 23 votes in favor, three opposed and four abstentions. 

ND uses endowment for fellowship 
. Medieval Institute receives $400,000 

Special to th.e Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received a $400,000 challenge grant from Andrew Mellon Foundation to endow a fellow­ship in medieval studies. 
The Mellon Foundation's chal­lenge grant, which requires Notre Dame to raise an addi­tional $350,000, is itself a response to a $450,000 chal­lenge grant to the University form the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). The NEH grant, made earlier this year, is contingent upon Notre Dame's raising $1.8 million for the library collections and facul­ty fellowships in the Medieval Institute and the Keough Institute for Irish Studies. 
"We are grateful to the Mellon Foundation both for this gener­ous grant and for the recogni­tion it conveys," said University president Father Edward Malloy. "The Medieval Institute is among Notre Dame's most celebrated acedemic entities and these challenge grants will strengthen it yet further." 
Father Philip Moore estab­lished Notre Dame's first medieval studies program in 193:1 with the assistance of the French medievalist and philos­pher Etienne Gilson. The University's Medieval Institute was established 14 years later and is today, under the direction of Patrick Geary, among the most prominent interdiscipli­nary programs of its kind in the nation. 
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation makes grants on a selective basis to institutions in higher education; in cultural affairs and the performing arts; in population; in conservation and the environment; and in public affairs. It has provided support for Notre Dame's Medieval Institute. 

Brad Metz, C.S.C. • Irish Guard 1992-95 Ordination Date: April 6, 2002 
Can you make this team? 

ANSWER *­
THECALL W 


Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 







orld 
on 
Thursday, November 11, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Pakistani police arrest a protester belonging to toppled Prime Minister Nawaz Sharlf's party in Lahore, the home town of Sharif. The lone protester was demonstrating against the detention of Sharif after a bloodless military coup in the country Oct. 12. 
Deposed Premier faces charges 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Cuba left off list of drug importers 
WASIIINGTON 

Hnjncting appnals by llousc1 Hopublicans, l'n\siclt>nt Clinton on Wndnesday dPclined to in(·ludn Cuba on a list of' countrins used to ship ill,~gal drugs to the Unilnd Slates. State l>npartmcnt spnk(1snwn .lanrns Rubin said an inlnr-agency assossnwnt concluded tlrnrn was 110 cocainn clc\tl\Ctod transiting Cuban soil or ports 011 llrn way to thn llnitnd States during thn first six months of' 1 <JIJ<J. Thn list included 2(, c·ountrins and tnrritorins -two f'nwnr than last vnar -that am rcgardml as drug source or drug transit countrios. Countrins includnd on tlw list can lw subjnct to nronomir. ponal­tiPs if tlwy arn found not to hn cooperating with U.S. 1·011nt1•rnarcolics efforts. 
London prepares for mayoral elections 
LONDON 

Four hopPl'uls, including a party mavnrick and Osrar-winning actrnss c;lcnda Jackson, suhmittPd bids WNlrwsday to bncomn the l.ahor Party's candidatn fc;r London's first mayor. Along with .larkson -a f'ormnr Cahirwt minislPr -lcif'l-wing lawmaknr K1)t1 l.ivingstonP, l'ornwr IIPalth Secretary Frank l>ohso11 and husirwssman KPn Balclry filed nomin;ilion forms and statenrn11t.s outlining why they considPr Lhmns1•lvPs the best c:andi­dal.!• l'or tlw ,iob. S1wc11lation is mounting that the• party hi1•rarrhy might cut l.ivingstorrn from t.lH• short-list lrncausn of' his f"rnqunnt attacks 011 l'rinw Ministnr Tony Blair's Labor govPrnnwnt. Tlw sPlnc:tion board will moot l.'riclay to dPridP which applicants will go for­ward f'or an intPrviPW. Tlw mayor will bn a high-proliln political ligurn, ovorsoning a $!>.2 billion liudgPt and lwing rPsponsibln for polic1•. transportation, l'in• and 1\11H'rg1•11<·y sPrvirPs, nc·orwmic dl'VPlopmc•nt and promot­ing tlw l'apilal. 
East Timor refugees blocked from returning home 
.IAKARTA, Indonesia 

Most of thn 200,000 East Timornse rnfuge11s still sheltPring in Wost Timor are b11ing blocknd from rnlurning home by gun-wielding militias. a U.N. spokesman said today. Many East Timornsn an• lrning forcncl at gunpoint to rnmain in camps that lack food, sanitation and nrndical cam, said Yusuf Hassan, spokesman for the United Nations High C:ommissionnr for Hofugees. "The moment an East Tinwrns,i ,ixprnssfls a desire to leave the camps and go home their life is in danger," Ilassan told The Associated Press in Jakarta. lnt,\rnational air! workers in West Timor nsti­matPd that 15.000 pro-Indonesia militiamen arn still activ•~ in refugee camps in the lndmrnsian-held western half of tlrn island. 

S&P 500: 
t373A6


10,597.70 
i8. l 8 

VOLUME LEADERS 

CPNFAHI  UClill  \  CiHAHPE  $ CNM191  PRICI  
UNIT.ED PUCIL  UPS  +J5. 76  +17, 11600  67. 88  
CKA.R'!'R COIIN-CL  CHTJI  •9.89  +l'. l5OO  5,00  
crco SYSTEMS  csco  +7 .01  -tS.2500  79. 50  
COMPAQ COMPUTER MICROSOFT CORP  CPO MSPT  +6 .02 -1.n  +1. 2S00 -1.7550  l2.00 87 .i:z  
ITAPLSS INC  SPt.8  +u..n  •J. 5000  20.00  
DILL COICPUTl:11  Dl:LL  +:ili.l.6  +O. 1175  u.u  
LUCUIT Tl:CH I ¦C  LC  +:l .C0  +L 7500  , ...75  
tBTl'.11.N DIOIT.\.L IftlL C'OJ:-P  WDC IHl'C  . J0.71 -1.lJ,  ..1.OO0a ..1.0,u  l, •.H 79.00  

PAKISTAN 

Associated Press 
ISL\MABi\D 
Nearly 0110 month al"ler throwing out tlw civilian government, Pakistan's new military rulers on Thursday acci:1secl dcposnd premier Nawaz Sharif and eight otlrnrs of treason and kidnapping -charges that carry the death penalty. 
A formal complaint was lilcd in connection with an incident Oct. 12 in which Sharif refused landing rights to a passenger air­craft carrying Army Chief Gen. Pervaiz Musharrar. The general responded that day by ousting Sharif 


RUSSIA 
Chechen refugees plead for help 
neighboring Chechnya leader Kim Traavik. lie 
rusociated Press 
since September, many of said Chechnya could no 
them now living in tents in longer be considered an 
SLEPTSOVSKAYA lngushctia. internal Russian problem. 
Angry and frightened Thfl plight of the The dnlegation, which Chnchen refugees pleaded refugees, who were will try to assess what can for help Wednesday as already short of food and be donn to help the international officials adequate refugees, tou rod a ton t cily where sheller, dete­"They are killing us was fre­tlrnusanJs huddlr.d in riorah1d fur­quently sur­
both morally and

lhmzing cold and snow. ther with tlrn rounded by "They are killing us both onset of snow physically." anxious. morally and physically," and freezing sometimns onn woman shouted as the nights. angry peo­
Unidentified

delegation from the International ple. Many
Chechen refugee

Organization for Sncurity aid groups refugees 
in a bloodless coup. 
Undnr Pakistani law, a complaint was lodged with tlrn police. A police inquiry will now be launched and formal charges made against the accused. 
Sharif, who has been in military custody since his overthrow, was also accused of assembling peo­ple with the purpose to kill and physical endanger­ment. both of which carry prison terms. 
Among those accused in the complaint are Sharifs former adviser Ghaus Ali Shah, former director of Pakistan's national airline Shahid Haqqan Abbasi, 
former l'olicn lnspcctnr Rana Maqbool and former director general of Pakistan Civil Aviation Aminuddin Chaudhry. 
Thi\ ccimplaint. stems from the high-altitude drama that occurred ovor the Karachi International Airport on Oct. 12 as tho army fanned out on the ground and took control. 
The Pakistan International Airlines night returning Musharraf to Pakistan from Sri Lanka was then refused landing rights. 
Musharraf said in an earlier interview that the pilot circled the airport 
urged jour­nalists to turn their way. 
"Film us. Look at our torn shoes. We have noth­ing," one woman shouted. 
"I can tell you you're not forgotten," Traavik told the crowd. 

awaiting instructions as fun! was running out. Tlw 
aircraft was  rerollll\d  to  
thn  southnrn  city  ol'  
l\awabshah.  

WhilP th<) aircraft was en route, the army gairwd full control of thn country ­including tho Karachi air­port. and ordcrnd tlrn air• craft to land. When the air­craft landPd at Karachi Airport, Musharraf said, there was less than 1(1 minutes of fuel rnmaining. 
Ile accusnd Sharif at lhe time of attnm pting to kill him and 1mdangering the lives of the more than 200 passengers and crow on board. 
Russian forces, moan while, continuflcl to bomb Chechnya, with jets attack­ing rebel positions in the southnrn mountains and around somo towns. The military said its jets llew more than Ml sortins Wednesday, according to thn ITAH-Tass News Agi\ncy, and an Associatncl l'rnss reporter in Chechnya !ward h11avy homhing. 
Thn Hussian military claimed to have destroyed night rr.lwl strongholds, a tPlephorrn nxchangn, a command post and snvnn vehiclPs, as w1,Jl as mining almost 12 miles of roads. Thero was no way to con­firm the claims, which am often thought to be little more than exaggerations. 
and Cooperation in Europe got a firsthand look at tlwir situation. 
The OSCE officials said conditions in the Hussian region of Ingushetia were grim. Up to 200,000 people have fled the fighting in 
have yet to provide much help. 
"We can't pretend to know nvcry detail, but what we have seen during our brief visit is a signifi­cant humanitarian prob­lem," said delegation 
Thursday, November 11, 1999 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Lay ministry program allows education, service 

By NICOLE HADDAD News Writer 
Compassionate minds, open 

hearts. and helping hands are 
the foundation through which 
Saint Mary's students are given 
the opportunity to build a 
future of lifelong service. 
Through the newly developed 

Lay Ministry Certification 
Program (LMCPl, students will 
be prepared for future work in 
ministry. 
".I am excited about this cer­

tification because it will give us 
the opportu­
nity to inte­
grate our "The Church needs istry at Saint academic leaders with experience Mary's. 
study of the­"Several hun­
and I hope1to be ofuse."

ology and dred students religion with serve in min­real experi­Melissa McClure istry roles 
ences in the while at Saint
lay ministry participant
community. l hope to come away with a better sense uf what God's calling is in my life," said sophomore social work major Sunny O'Brian. 
Developed by the campus ministry department in collabo­ration with the religious studies department, LMCP offers cours­es, workshops and supervised experiences in various aspects of ministry. When students suc­cessfully complete the program, they will graduate with a minor in religious studies and receive a certificate indicating that they have satisfied the college's requirement for qualification as lay ministers. 
"When I look back, it's the 
natural thing for me to do," 
said junior Melissa McClure, communications and religious studies major. As Mass coordi­nator for Sacred Htrnrt Chapel in Holy Cross Hall, she agrees that this program provides a great opportunity to combine religious studies and campus ministry. "The Church needs . 1.caders with experience and I hope to be of use," McClure 

said. "It teaches us how to be leaders in minislry. '' 
"The establishment of this program is a response to the emerging need for educated and formed lay leadership in the Church," said Judith Jean, director of campus min­
Marv's and 
often volun­
teer at local 
parishes. They now have the opportuni­ty to deepen their religious education while serving oth­ers." 
Joe lncandela, chair of the religious studies department at Saint Mary's, says the unique certification program gives students a distinct advantage. 
"These women will really know their stuff before they go out and pass it on," says Incandela. 
"Students credentialed 
through this program wff 
become teachers, social work· 
ers, doctors and business­
women. But as lay ministers, 
they will be more than leaderE 
in their chosen field. They will helping others and this program be compassionate leaders with gives me a good opportunity to the desirf" and qualifications to P.xperience this," said sopho­minister to their communities," more Angela Fox who is interest­he said. ed in applying to this program. 'TvP alwavs been interested in "In hi~h school I was involved in 
the Church as well as teaching Sunday school, and I've found it to be such a rewarding feeling. I'm so glad that they've devel­opPd this program that calls peo­ple to service." 
''HOLL~WOOD MIGHT/'' 
C4'4PUI-WIDI 


D4MCIP4RT~ 


Saturday 
9PM-1AM 
AI.U'4NI-IINIOR CI.UB 
FREE FOOD! FREE ADMISSION! 
BrougLI lo you Ly: Student A.cti~ities Office &. Classes of ~00~ &. ~003 
A-LL A-GE 5 WELCOf'-1Ei 
Q .. 
Replv Forward 

Goto www.co11E-getrave-1network.e:om. SNL in NYC, BABY! RE-gister-your name­on their-site .and we could win .and live it up in N -Y -C: RT plane tickets, phat hotel room, txts to SNL LIVE! LIVE! LIVE! Yeeehhhaawwwvt ... 
Later (oh ye.ah, feed motorhieoad) 
urrent proje< 

~'pu!Chase necessary. void where prohibited. Conte&t begins 10,/1 S/99 and ends 11/30/99. Contest open to U.S. residents age 18 and O'Jl!lr, further restrictions.'!.try form and complete rules available at www.collegetra~~:,: 
Thursday, November 11, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
-::::=.-=====-=::=.================================================================================ 

GOP agrees to Clinton teacher-hiring proposal in budget 
Asso~iatc<l Press 
WASI IIN<;TON Undnr prnssurc from Urn 
WhiW llousn, Republicans agrond Wndnesctay lo a new installmenl of' Pn1sident Clinton's plan to hire now traclwrs as the two sides worked tnward a budgd deal that could sirnd Congrnss home !'or thn year next w,wk. 
Thu Miministration and 
1),..1""'\,,hli,....-,..,"~ •1IC"I"\ ....,.-..nun,I 1nu.t!lt'd 
restoring roughly $12 billion in Medicare cuts to hospitals and nursing homes enacted two years ago. and neared a deal to let the Int1-mrntional Monetary Fund step up its deht-relief 
efforts. 

But as congressional and White House bargainers met into the evening, they gave up hope of finishing in time for C()ngrcss to adjourn Friday. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, H-Miss., sent the Senate 
home for Veterans Day and planned no votes there until at least next Wednesday. 
"There's no way we ran get this done tonight." Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Ted Stevens, R­Alaska, said of the bargaining. 
The two sides agrned to a sec()nd year ol' Clinton's seven­y1rnr plan to hire 100,000 teachers, said people rrom both parties. The White House has made that proposal its highest-







HOMES FOR RENT 
-Domus Properties has six, seven, and eight bedroom houses available 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
Ncmw ~ N• 
NEW! A Lighter, More Diverse Menu: 
Our famous steaks plus more sandwiches, salads and pastas. Not only for special occasions. 
222 S. Michigan • South Bend • 219.234.5200 next door to Heartland 



StUdetft 
80D1Es Meeting IYeekly 
-

$1 COVER(with college I.D., must be 21) and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. 
Da®@~1J[s@[ru@)0§ 
COLLeGe n1GHT 
More pictures on line every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 
This Friday Night 

ART 


ARTICHOKES 

CALL THE HERRTLRND CONCERT RNO 
........._....~::.=:.~ EVENT LINE 
219.251.2568 222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 
profile issue in this year's bud-mining companies dump waste get fight. into valleys and streams by sus-
CJinton had requested $1.4 pending provisions of the Cloan billion for the program for fis-Water Act. Languagn doing that cal 2000, which began Oct. 1, temporarily was lrning consid­and negotiators agreed to ere{I, said a Democrat who $1.325 billion. Twenty-nine spokA on rondition of anonymi­thousand teachers were hired ty. in the first year of the program Republicans did agrnii to add 
and Clinton's  $1.45 billion  
request would  for  labor,  
have provided  'Tm pleased. Would I  lrnalth  and  
money to hire  have liked more? Yes.  education  
8,000 more in fiscal 20oo.  Would they have liked  programs. compared to  
Bargainers  more? Yes."  $2.3  billion  
also agreed to  that  Clinton  
let school dis­.tncts use 2 5  WIiliam Gooding  sought earli­er.  
percent of the  chairman of the House Education  11  0  u  s  e  
p r o g r a m · s  and Workforce Committee  M a j o r i t y  
funds  for  Leader  Dick  
tAacher train- Armey,  R­ 

ing and other education pro-?~~as, said he was nearing an grams. That limit has been 15 ''·agteemen'i · with Treasury percent, and Republicans have Secretary Lawrence Summers wanted school districts to have over international dAbt relief. more flexibility in using the Armey had opposed an money. administration effort to let the 
Teachers hired under the act International Monetary Fund would have to be certified, and sell up to 14 million ounces of schools with at least 10 percent its gold and use the extra of uncertified teachers could money to help multinational request waivers to use the banks forgive some debt owed money for training instead of by poor countries. Helping hiring. some of those countries' 
"I'm pleased," said Rep. economies by easing their loan William Goodling, R-Pa., chair-problems has bncome an man of the House Education administration priority. and Workforce Committee. ArmAy said the two sides are "Would I have liked more? Yes. moving toward an agreement to Would they have liked more? let the IMF re-value some of its Yes." gold at more than the $48 per 
The two sides also exchanged ounce it is currently valued and offers on an effort by conserva-use the extra capital for dAbt tives to restrict ovArseas abor-forgiveness. Included would be tion lobbying. "iron clad" language limiting 
Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., the use of that money for debt still was insisting on letting coal forgiveness, Armey said. 
@@Q'1fJD@@ ISJ 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 11, 1999 
An Open Letter to the University of Notre Dame du Lac Community 
The Student Union Senate of the University of Notre Dame after much research and thought within the committee structure believes that The Observer's editorial policy, including articles, editorials, and advertisements, should be independent of the administration of the University. We believe that The Observer holds itself to the highest standard of journalistic integrity including its decisions concerning which advertisements 
.1, 

appear within the paper. The Office of the President of the University has acted beyond the limits of its professional relationship with The Observer in its decision to censor advertisements, in particular those from the Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. In a letter dated December 6, 1983 from Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, then President of the University, to David Dziedzic, then The Observer editor­in chief, Father Hesburgh outlined the relationship between the University and The Observer. In this letter, Fr. Hesburgh states unequivocally 
The administration of the University has ensured the editorial freedom of The Observer in the past and continues to do so. A three-member arbitration board, agreeable to The Observer and the University, to adjudicate changes of editorial interference meets with my approval. In turn, The Observer will meet its responsibility of financial accountability by participating in the Unit Budget 
System. 

Therefore, the Office of the President of the University has acted contrary to University policy as set forth in this letter, and thus inappropriately. In closing, we further 
reiterate our belief that The Observer needs to be editorially independent in all respects 
from the University administration in order to fulfill its duties of informing and being 
-~:P-

responsive to our community. 
Sincerely Yours in Notre Dame, 
Michael Palumbo, Chairman, Student Union Senate Student Body Vice President 
Thursday, November I I, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Bradley opposed to raising retirement age 
Associated l'ress 
WASHINGTON 

Ten days after Im insistl"d the quosUon be held open, Rill Bradlny stoorl Wednesrlay against an incrcas11 in tlrn rntirunrnnt age for Mndicaro and S!lcial S"rurity, Lrying lo deny rival t\l Coro any advan­tago with 


senior citi-Bradley 
zons. "You have no fear about 
your Modicarc and you should have no foar about your Social Security," Bradluy told resi­dents at Detroit's Arcadia Snnior Citizens llome. 
Tlw vicn president, con­vinced th1tt he has Bradley on the run in the health care dcbatP, sent to air in New llamµshirc and Iowa a new :rn-second TV ad touting his uwn child health proposal as 0110 that can be achieved "within a balanced budget." 
For a Democratic presiden­tial campaign that quietly ran for nine months with both can­didates ignoring each other, Wodrnisday's developments ­including the Bradley cam­paign's "Does this sound famil­iar'?" charge that Gore all but plagiarized his opponent in the ad -symbolized the race's near-desperate tightening. 
The nonpartisan Consumers Union entered the candidates' testy back-and-forth over their competing health proposals, and sided with Bradley's as "preferable" on seven of eight measurements: commitment to universal coverage, progress insuring all children. Medicare prescription drugs, insurance market reforms, equitable tax policy and "steps in tlrn right direction." 
Determining that Bradley would morn widely provide health insurance, Gail Shearer, Consumers Union's director of health policy analy­sis, concluded; "More coverage is better than loss -even if more costly -and therefore Sen. Bradley's plan offers a more meaningful starting point for tackling the problem of the uninsured." 
Consumers Union rated Gore's plan preferable in terms of long-term Medicare reforms. 
But Shearer chastised Lhe vice president for painting Bradley's $65 billion proposal as a budget buster that threat­ens Medicare, saying the criti­cism raises doubts about Gore's commitment to univer­sal coverage. 
Bradley, in response to a question from an unidentified man in his Detroit audience, said emphatically, ''I'm not proposing to raise the age for Medicare. I'm not proposing that for either [Medicare or Social Security], as a matter of fact. I don't think it's a good idea." 

Bush sides with GOP on budget 
Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. 

Hacking Republicans in Washington's budget battle, presidential front-runner George W. Bush on Wednesday opposed President Clinton's plans for hiring 100,000 teachers a n d endorsed the GOP minimum­w a g e increase. 
Hush entered the fiscal fray at a news conference in South Carolina before flying to New Hampshire to formally register as a presidential candidate. New Hampshire will conduct the nation's first primary Feb. 1, followed just 18 days later by South Carolina. 

Under skies threatening rain, the two-term Texas governor walked with supporters to the state Capitol to make his can­didacy official. 'Tm in, and I'm honored to be in," Bush told New Hampshire Secretary of State Bill Gardner as he signed the necessary papers and handed over his $1,000 check. 
Afterward, Bush defended himself against criticism for skipping two debates and for not spending more time in the state. "What was important was not necessarily the fre­quency of stops but the num­ber of hands I was able to, 

shake, the number of people I was able to see," he told New Hampshire reporters. 
On the budget, Bush sairl he was tired of Lim "arguing and bickering" on Capitol Hill and said he would proposn chang­ing the federal budget process from an annual review to an every-other-year procedure. 
'Tm like a lot of Americans who are concerned about the constant budget hassles that seem to dominate the Thanksgiving season. Maybe it's now time for us to reform the budget process to avoid the annual budget showdown and have a biennial budget," Bush said. 
With tho president and Congress trying to wrap up this year's negotiations, Bush Jn"ltised HepubHcan efforts. 
Poll: Giuliani leads Clinton in NY 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. 

A · new statewide poll Wednesday found Rudolph Giuliani with a slight lead over Hillary Rodharn Clinton as the first lady's support continues to erode. 
The poll, from the Quinnipiac College Polling Institute, found the New York City mayor favored by 47 per­cent of voters with 42 percent backing the first lady. 
Both are expected to run next year to succeed Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D­N.Y. 
A Quinnipiac College poll in February had Mrs. Clinton leading Giuliani, 54 percent to 36 percent, but her lead has gradually eroded since then. 
A May poll from Quinnipiac put her ahead, 48 percent to 42 percent. 
A poll a month ago from Quinnipiac had the two in a statistical dead heat, with Giuliani at 46 percent and Mrs. Clinton at 43 percent. 
Other statewide polls have shown similar trends. 
"This is good news for Giuliani," said Maurice Carroll, head of the Hamden, 

Conn.-based polling institute. 
Carroll said Mrs. Clinton was suffering from "overall erosion" in support and that "the only thing keeping her afloat is tho black vote." 
Among blacks, Mrs. Clinton led Giuliani, 83 percent to 6 percent. 
But among the state's politi­cally important Jewish voters, the two are statistically even, 46 percent for Mrs. Clinton and 43 percent for Giuliani. Such numbers among Jewish voters are not a good sign for any Democratic candidate running statewide, Carroll said. 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 11, 1999 Thmsday, November 11, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 


Clinton: Y2K crisis under control 
W/\SIIINGTON Prnsidl'nl Clinton assurpd 
Americans Wednnsclny that ho 
expPcts no major national 
hn'akdowns bncaus,• of Y11ar 2000­r c I a L c d comput11r failurns. 
Bul his lop r.xpr.rl cautionnd Lhal many schools and IJ I I onrnr­gr.11cy cnntnrs arn falling lwhincl 011 n~pairs, and "il is im~vitablr. there am going to hn some glitches in some systPrns." 
Clinton. whnsP advisory coun­cil isslwd its final rP.port on thn nation's n~adincss, 1ixp ressed confidPncf' that tlw f'Pchiral gov­ernmr.nt will bn ready for Lim Nnw Ymir's date rnllov1ir. 
"If wn \.Vork togntlrnr and USP this limn wnll, WP can ensure that this Y2K computer problem will b1' rmnnmbPrnd as tlw last lrnadaclrn of' thn 20th century, not the lirsl crisis of' the 21st" Clinton said on the White llou~c lawn minutes bd"orn llying to l'nnnsylvania. 
But with only 51 days left. the prnsiclent and his top export. John Koskinen, said some of Urn nation's !or.al governmonts, schools. hospitals and small businessPs an~ lagging on rnpairs. 
Only hall' America's <J 11 call r.enters -usually run by local governnrnnts -conlirmed last month tlrny w1irn rnady. The White Ilouso previously warned that <J 11 failures probably wouldn't prevent polir.e or fire departments from taking calls. But it could force employees to use manual dispatch svstcms. moaning it will take longer for rescun worknrs to rnspond. 


"There arpn't a lot of days left," said Koskinen, chairman of the Prnsidenl's Council on Year 2000 Conversion. Ile said familins should know in advance tulephone numbers to dir,ictly dial policn, hospitals and lirefightcrs. 
The study also said more than one-third of the country's ele­mentary and secondary schools told tho Education Department they aren't yet prepared. Failures rould affect heating, lighting. lire alarms, elevators, student records and teacher payrolls. "Time is getting short," Koskinen said. 
The rinal report said some health-care provirlers and med­ical organizations "exhibit trou­bling levels of readiness," and it chicl(id small businesses for tak­ing a wait-and-see approach to possible failures. 
"They're basically asking for trouble," Koskinen said. "They're going to be in a logjam with all the other thousands of organizations that didn't do their work in the first weeks of .January." 
Koskinen acknowledged that a new liability law gives com­puter companies 90 days to respond to reports of problems -meaning failures could go unresolved until spring -and he warned of' long waits for software fixes and technical 
advice in the early months of 
2000, 
Otherwise, tho final Whitr House report broke little new ground. It noted that the best­prepared sectors continue to b<' the federal government, pow1~r and water utilities. airlines and rail companies and telephonti services. Koskinen expressed a "high degree of confidence'' in those areas. 
Experts recommend that, while nati()nal failures are unlikely, Americans should assess the risk for any local problAms and take precautions now -such as buying drinking water if the community treat­ment plant can't guarantee it will be rnuclv. 
But experts have repeatedly warned against stockpiling sup­plies, saying a run on food, gasolirn-1, prescriptions and 1wen cash might cause more prob­lems than the threat of Y2K fail­ures. 
Tho president's study said failures overseas remain possi­ble. It cited Russia. Ukraine. China and Indonesia as "more likely to experience significant failures." 
But the largest U.S. trading partners, Canada and Mexico, will be ready, and so will most developed countries with which the United States conducts the bulk of its trade, the report said. 
The new study also debunked worries about a misfired nuclear missile. 
"Y2K problems will not cause nuclear weapons to launch themselves," it promised. "Nuclear weapons launch requires human intervention." 
mca recording artists 
CO 
hailed as one of the best rock/blues bands, these boys from new orleans 
Veterans groups shrink in numbers 
Associated Press 
JOLIET, Ill. 
Taking a break from work­ing the bingo game at Veterans of Foreign Wars Post No. 367, Jay Minarich talks about what he and the rest of the post's honor guard have going for thu week. 
"We buried a guy today, we've got one on Wednesday, and Friday we've got arc dying at a ratn of I. 1 00 a day, VFW spokesman V1m1 Pall says. To the VFW. that trans­lates to a loss or 200 to 300 members a day. 

And as they die. posts shrink and close. Afllir rising nvery year from 1965, the nurnb1H" of VFW posts has been declining since 199:1. Today, the VFW has 9.979 posl<; -nearly 1,000 fewer than five years ago. 
Of the .Joliet post's 1.300 
members, 
about. 900 am 

two," says "We buried a guy today. World War II the 77-veterans.
we've got one on

year-old For ynars,
Wednesda!J,JJ,JJ,d Friday
World War Jolinl was the II veteran. we've got two." kind of hard­"That's the working town way it is." that sent its
Jay Minarich

That's young men oil' the way it is veteran lo fight the 
at posts across the country. 
With World War II veterans now in their 70s and 80s and dying off fast, membership in the VFW and the American Legion has declined by a com­bined half-million members since the early 1990s to 4. 7 million . 
"The rule here is when a member dies, you're supposed to get two to join," says Minarich, whose post has lost some 80 members in each of the last two years. "How the hell are you supposed to do 
thatr 
World War II-era veterans 
··. ·•· 's? 
nation's wars, 

and wel­comed them back to raise fam­ilies and work in the steel mills. paper mills and horsn­shoe factory. 
The VFW came to Joliet in 1920. When il was time to build a new post in the 1940s, what rose from the ground was a structure any town would have been proud to have as a courthouse, right clown to the big white columns. 
When the boys came home from World War' II. thny bnllind up to the bar with vnterans of the First World War. And the boys who fought in Korea did the same. 
BOY MOtJTH 
coming to notre dame on · · · · · november 17 . 
8 pm at stepan center 
are known for their  
incredible live shows  
including performances at the house of blues, and for their hit songs such as "jenny says."  get your tickets now: $10 nd/smdhc $12 public lafortune info desk  

e visit www.nd.edu1::-s~r www.cowboymouth~com to learn !!!Qra-----­
. . 
page 12 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 11, 1999 
Bubbleboy virus threatens Windows users 
Microsoft Outlook Express acti­of a host of malicious programs. was more playful than destruc­viruses, Melissa wreaked
Associated Press 
vates its hidden code. "This ushers in the next evolu­tive as it worked its way havoc only after users double­It also takes every address in a tion in viruses. It breaks one of through a computer's hard clicked an attachment to theSAN FRANCISCO computer's e-mail program and the long-standing rules that you drive, renaming the comput­seemingly benign messages.
Computer security experts are passes the virus along, unless have to open an e-mail attach­er's registered owner as "Bubbleboy" only requireswarning of a dangerous new e­the computer user has installed ment to become infected," "Bubbleboy" and making other that the e-mail be previewedm ail virus, one able to destroy a patch distributed in August by spokesman Sal Viveros said. "Seinfeld" references. on the Inbox screen of
information 

Microsoft. "That's all changed now." Such a display can he a Microsoft's Outlook Express, a
Bubbleboy even when 
The virus, technically a "Bubbleboy" was e-mailed late warning salvo. Gullotto said popular e-mail pr:ogram. As
users don't

E-mail virus will "worm" program, requires that Monday to Network Associates more destructive versions of soon as the e-mail is highlight­
fully open their a component of Windows, called and the company put a free soft­the virus could soon follow. ed, without so much as a clickaffect Windows messages. 

Windows Scripting Host, also be ware patch capable of blocking "This could be the catalyst," of a mouse, it infects the com­"Bubbleboy,"
2000, 98 and installed on the victim's comput­the attack on its Web site the Gullotto said. "While the puter.
apparently 

er. It doesn't affect Microsoft's next day. Melissa virus was 'hell coming The virus appears as a black
95. nicknamed 
more robust Windows NT soft­The company isn't certain to dinner,' we have reassessed screen with the words "The
after an

. can disable 
ware typically used by compa­who sent the virus, but that and know that something Bubbleboy incident, picturesepisode of the
PC, Macintosh nies. Unlike viruses, worms are researchers believed the threat bigger, meaner and nastier is and sounds" in white letters.
TV show 

self-contained and don't attach is so serious that they notified on its way." It affects computers with
. avoid use of "Seinfeld," is 
themselves to another program the FBI, said Vincent Gullotta, The Melissa computer virus Windows 98, Windows 2000the first known 
Microsoft to propagate. director of the company's virus clogged e-mail systems around and some versions of Windows
e-mail virus 

Researchers at Network detection team. the world when it hit in March, 95 that also use Microsoft's
Outlook that doesn't 
/).ssocia,tes, a Santa Clara com­"It could basically disable but many computer users were Internet Explorer 5.0 andeve'n ·need •to­puter security company, said your PC easily," Gullotto said. able to avoid trouble by delet­Outlook Express Web browserbe fully opened "Bubbleboy" could become the "This could be a watershed." ing e-mails without reading and e-mail programs, Gullottoto be activated. Just highlighting 
framework for the easy delivery The virus sent Monday night them. Like previous e-mail said.
the e-mail's subject line in 
Army apologizes to WWII veteran 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

A half-century ago, Sgt. Edward Carter Jr. prove·d himself an American hero on the battlefields of Nazi Germany, and yet the Army drummed him out of uniform without explanation. 
After years of pressure from a family devoted to clearing his name, the Army formally apologized Wednesday for banishing the decorated war­rior as a suspected communist and denying him the life of soldiering he dearly loved. 
"He was destroyed. Now he has been restored," Allene Carter, the wife of Carter's eldest son, said at an emotion­al ceremony in the Pentagon's Hall of Heroes, where Carter's picture now hangs with other Medal of Honor winners. Carter died in 1963 at age 4 7, months after being diagnosed with lung cancer. 
"Today, Sgt. Carter has been vindicated," Mrs. Carter said. 
Gen. John Keane, the Army's vice chief of staff, presented the Carter family with a set of corrected military records to remove the stain of suspicion that declassified Army intelli­gence records show had no basis in fact. Keane said he regretted this sad chapter in Army history. 
"We are here to apologize to his family for the pain he suf­fered so many years ago at the hands of his Army and his government," Keane said, looking out to an audience that included Carter family members and friends as well as World War II veterans. "We are here to say we are sorry." 
"He spent the last years of his life trying in vain to clear his name and to return to the life he loved so well," he said, "We must acknowledge the mistake, apologize to his fami­ly and continue to honor the memory of this great soldier." 
Keane, with Carter's widow, Mildred Carter, seated at his side, also presented the family with three military awards that a review of his personnel file showed he qualified for but never received. They are the Army Good Conduct Medal, the Army of Occupation Medal, and the American Campaign Medal. 
The injustices to Carter were brought to light last spring by 
U.S. News & World Report, which chronicled a long strug­gle by Allene Carter to uncov­er the truth and force the Army to admit its mistake. 
"It's an end to that dark cloud that has been hanging over the family for about 50 years now," she said in an interview. She and other fami­ly members visited Carter's grave Wednesday at Arlington National Cemetery. 
In 1997, Carter and six other World War If veterans became the first black soldiers of that conflict to receive the Medal of Honor, the nation's highest honor for combat heroism. That followed an Army study of why no black soldiers had received the honor. It was not until the U.S. News & World Report story on Carter in May, however, that the other wrongs came to light 

SIEMENSWestinghouse Science and Technology Competition Midwest Regionals 
Saturday, November 13 CCE Auditorium University of Notre Dame 
8-11:30am: 
/ndlviduaVTeam Competition 
~pm: 

:The Keynote SpeakerCollege Dr. Leon Lsdarman,EBoard 1988 Nobel Prize Winner In Physics 
"Sclenca and Science Education
S:l.emena 

tor the Next MIiien/um•
Foundation 





Thursday, November I 1, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 13 
Kinkel sentenced to 111 years 
Associated Press 
EUGENE, Ore. 

Kip Kinkel, tlrn 17-ynar-old who filled his journal with rage, snlf-loathing and fan­tasies of violence, was sen­tcrncod to nearly 111 years in prison Wednesday for gunning down his parents and going on a riunpagti in his high school cal'Neria that left two students dead. 
Kinknl will not be entitled to paroln, mnaning that unlnss tlrn governor commutes his sP11tenc11, he will di11 behind bars !'or Urn attack at Thurston High School in Springfinld. 
Artnr hearing days of wrenching statements from victims' rnlativus and many of tlrn 2!> people wounded, Judg1~ Jack Mattison said il was more important to mukn the victims fool saf'e than to try to rehabil­itate Kinkel. 
Before thn snntP-ncc was isstwd. Kinkel rnad an apology from a small sheet of white paper. 
"I absolutely loved my par­nuts and had no mason to kill them. I had 110 reason to dblikc or try to kill anyone at Thurston. I am truly sorry for all or this," he said. "Thus,i rwents have pulled me to a state of deterioration and 
s1df-loathing  that  I  didn't  
know existnd."  
lie stood  with  his  hands  

l'iaspnd in frnnt of him as the judge gave him what amounts to a life sen­tnncl~. Kinkel was 15 when hn 
Supreme Court debates student fees 
either have to stop using the 
Associated Press 

fees to finance student groups or figure out some 
WASHINGTON 

way to exempt some stu­If Tuesday's courtroom 
dents. 

session was an indication, The justices took turns the Supreme Court is find­
peppering both lawyers with ing it hard to decide whether 
dozens of questions. and public universities and col­
offered little insight into how 
leges across America can 

they might vote. 
keep using money from 

Justice David Souter at ono 
mandatory student fees to point noted that most 

finance controversial campus University of Wisconsin stu• 

groups. 

dent groups finance them­As the lively. hour-long selves through dues and argument careened from one 
other kinds of fund•raising.
constitutional consideration lie told Ullman that fact 

to another, Justice Antonin undercut "your argument ... 

Scalia pondered aloud: ''1· Stlu can't ha:ve this kind of 

just wonder if universities 

speech in the university set­are going to crumble if they ting" without using student can't do this." 
activity fees. 
Perhaps 
B u t 
not, but the 
Souter 
court's 

"/just wonder if I a t e r 
decision, 
appeared

expected universities are going to 
to defond a 

by late crumble ifthey universi­June, could 
can't do this . ., ty's right
change the to say "we 

way public a
think 

universities Justice Antonin Scalia 
Babel of and col­supreme court iustice voices is a 
went on the shooting spree in May 1998 and therefore ineli­gible for the death penalty. 
Many victims said they were satisfied with the sentence and hoped someday to get on with 
their Iives. 
"I am so glad Kip Kinkel will be put behind the bars," said Teresa Miltonberger, who nearly died after being shot in the head. "If he wasn't, I wouldn't feel safe." 

Kinkel's attorneys said the sentence is too harsh and they plan to appeal. "Thiire was some possibility of a better result at trial. We're very dis­appointed," attorney Rich Mullen said. 
After being expelled from school for having a stolen gun in his locker, Kinkel killed his parnnts at their home on May 20, 1998. 
The next day he donned a trenchc(lat and drove to sch(lol with three guns and thousands of rounds of ammunition and opened fire on the packed cafeteria. Mikael Nickolauson and Ben Walker were killed. 
Kinkel later told doctors he had been hearing voices tnlling him to kill since he was 12. 
Experts testified he was psy­cho tic, probably paranoid 
schizophrenic. and deeply depressed. 
Kinkel pleaded guilty in September and agreed at the time to serve at least 25 yp.ars in prison for the murders, plus whatever the judge might add. 
"I am so glad Kip Kinkel 
will be put behind the bars. Ifhe wasn't, I wouldn'tfeel safe. " 
I 

Teresa Miltonberger Oregon school shooting victim 
The judge crafted a combination of concur­rent and consecutive sentences that added up to 111 years, eight months. 
The sen­tencing 

hearing left many still wonder­ing why Kinked went on his rampage. 
The closest he came to explaining it himself was a note he left at home, saying his parents could never live with the embarassment of his expulsion. and a journal filled with hate, self-loathing and fantasies of a bloodbath. 
Ile wrote about wanling to blow up the school or "walk into a pep rally with guns." 
Prosecutors discounted the effects of mental illness. say­ing that Kinkel had spoken often to his friends about tak­ing a gun to school and that he had been nasty and violent since he was a little boy. 
"Justice was done," said District Attorney Doug Harcleroad. "All of us lost something on that horrific day in May last year. 
Communities ofFaith Sharing and Scripture Study 
IT'S NEVERTOO LATE!! EMMAUS FAITH-SHARING GROUPS ARE STILL BEING FORMED!!! Take advantage of this opportunity to deepen your friend­ships or discover new ones while growing in your faith. Each Emmaus group consists of6-8 members meeting weekly for about an hour to pray, discuss Scrip­ture and faith-related issues while sharing the "ins and outs" of daily lives asND students. Join individually, with afew friends or as an entire group. 
For more information contact Clare Sullivan at 1-3389 in the Badin Campus Ministry Office. 
leges oper­ate. 
Sus a n Ullman, a Wisconsin assis­tant attorney general, urged against changing a long tra­dition. 
Creating a forum where many voices can be heard is "a legitimate function for any university," she contended. 
But Jordan Lorence, a lawyer representing University of Wisconsin stu­dents who challenged their school's fee system, said his clients were forced to sup­port groups they found objectionable. 
"Students have a First Amendment right not to speak," he said. "The univer­sity has a constitutional duty to respect the right of con­science of the students." 
If the objecting students win, state-run schools would g o o d 
thing." 

Justice Anthony Kennedy seemed concerned about several aspects of the university's student fee system but also told Lorence the objecting students are "asking us to do something that is against the tradition ... of many cen­turies ... a tradition of diverse speech." 
Three previous Supreme Court rulings are likely to play a role in the justices' deliberations. 
In 1977, the court said unions cannot compel their members to subsidize politi­cal advocacy through mandatory dues. And in 1995, the justices prohibited bar groups from using por­tions of objecting lawyers' mandatory dues l'or political lobbying. 

Monet 

The Fine Art of Hair Design For That Lasting Impression 
Debbie LaFree 
340 Cleveland Rd. 

Granger, Indiana 46530 
Phone: 273-0441 

Women's Hair Cuts: $40 Men's Hair Cuts: $25 Highlights: $80 30% off thru 11/18 


VIEWPOINT 


page 14 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. I.lox Q. Notr~ Dame. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining HaJI. Nor<c Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  Bus1NF5S MANAGLR  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  
Lima Perelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan V1EWl'OINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR, Brian Kessler 
ScENE EDff0R: Michael Van~ga.,; SAINT MA.RY'S EDITOR; Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum ·~~ .. 
ADVERTISING MANACER: B,yan Luc1. 
Ao 0FSIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelac SvsTLMS ADMINISTRATOR: l\!ichad Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
C0NTROtll'R: Timorhy"Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL fNF0..............631-7471 
FAX.....................................................631-6927 ADVERTJSING.....................................63!-6900/8840 
observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................ .................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO......................... ...............................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS..... ...........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news 
. from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-rhe 
movies/ music for 
weekly student reviews 
minute furecasrs 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives m search for 
to meet rhe editors and
articles published ali:er 
sraff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is che independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe srudenrs of rhe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither insricurion. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as acrurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and department· editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free eJCpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contact infom1ation. 
Qumwnr r,garding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichrll.t Krup,;. 
DILBERT 

O
THE BSERVER Thursday, November 11, 1999 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Freshmen's letters lack all sense 
Maybe it's my liberal California upbringing or maybe it's because I have more common sense than most, but I've been seeing some ridiculous statements in the Observer·s Viewpoint section recently. The first and most amazing to me is a letter in today's issue (Nov. 10). A freshman wrote that the cartoonist of "Depraved New World" showed bad taste with a car­toon featuring the recently deceased golfer, Payne Stewart. The cartoon showed Payne in heaven, being courted by a heavenly figure to be on his team for a golf scramble. There was nothing offensive in this cartoon, yet this fresh­man declares that it is "completely unnecessary to remember him in such a way." If remembering him as a good man and a great golfer is not the way lo remember him. then I don't know what is. The cartoonist does not ne€d to apologize for anything; his cartoon was a tasteful, humorous tribute to this man. After living through the student cartoonist "scandals" in past years, I do not want to see another one brought about by a freshman who has nothing better to do than complain and get overly sensitive about a harmless car­toon like this. 
Another letter in today's issue was writ­ten by yet another freshman, this one showing why an argu­ment from an associate dean at the law school regarding the shooting of Demetrius DuBose was ( full of fallacies and that it came from a "dream world." How nice of the kind freshman to show his superiority in this matter. Less than three months into college, and he is already destroying rational, well-made arguments from a• law school dean with who knows how many years of experience in the legal field. Surely this prodigy must be accepted into law school next semester in order to further enlighten the world ½-ith his knowl­edge. Not to mention the fact that the freshman states his belief that 12 fatal shots are justified to stop a man who had NOT attacked the police officers. Apparently shooting his leg to not allow him to run away was not enough. Who needs a fair trial and a chance at self­redemption anyway? Certainly not Mr. DuBose, who the freshman compared to a hunted deer, which he says are shot many times uout of compassion." Anyone who believes the brutal slaugh­ter of innocent animals for fun is com­passionate is so obviously wrong that I 
don't even need to elaborate on this point. 
Finally I have noticed a disturbing trend among recent columns in the Observer. This trend is not limited to any one group, as both Cappy Gagnon (whose columns I usually enjoy) and Sean Vinck (whose columns' "ratio­nale" provides me with laughs at lunchtime} have participated in it. The trend? Defending Bob Davie. l have no particular fondness for Lou Holtz -he 
was here for my 
~----freshman 
go to a 
bowl game. I 
wasn't impressed. Nevertheless, I know a bad coach when I see one, and Bob Davie is a BAD COACH. Our winning records under him are attributable to the talent of the players under him, not his coaching. The "aura" around Notre Dame (enhanced by actually GOOD coaches in the past) still lures quality players here. ND will always win some games based on this talent, but it's too bad the coach cannot utilize that talent to win the oth­ers. The bowl games we've gone to? All it rMlly takes to go to a bowl is a win-
SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"No man is good enough to govern another man without that other's consent." 
Abraham Lincoln 16th President of the United States 
ning record, which I've just explained. More examples? No problem. When he couldn't figure out how to run off 2:1 seconds against LSU last year, Jarious got hurt, we lost to USC, and didn·t get to go to the Fiesta Bowl. He stuck with Sanson for way too long. when it was obvious he wasn·t getting the job done in game situations. He has stated in an interview that he cuts down Jabari Holloway·s (an amazing player and potential All-American) playing time because Jabari chooses to go to his physics lab instead of going to practice when the times conflict. This is despica­ble. Reducing one of your best player's opportunities as a punishment for choosing his college education over football practice is inexcusable. I want to apologize to Jabari for Bob's behav­ior, and ask him to please stick with the team for the team·s sake. They need 
you. So far this year, Davie has man­
aged the clock so poorly that we lost 
two games we should have won on 
the FINAL PLAY of the gam11, in the 
EXACT SAME way. Then against 
MSU, he had so little faith in his 
running game (Notre Dame's 
strength, by the way), that he 
opted to punt on 4th and less 
than one yard to go in the fourth 
quarter of a game in which we 
were behind. I don't believe the age discrimination lawsuit was his fault, but this doesn't mean he is a good person either. I personally watched him yell at a man who was watching practice until the man told him that he 
was Kurt Vollers' father and had come to watch his son play. Kurt was then a freshman, meaning 
Davie had recruited him less than a year ago, and he must have met Kurt's parents. Yet he had no 
memory of that and belatedly tried to joke around with Mr. Vollers once he realized whom he was yelling at. Yelling may be a manly 
quality, which Cappy Gagnon likes, but I'd prefer a nice man who happens to know the game of football well enough to coach it instead of Bob Davie. What do you think'? 
I hope I've expressed my points clearly. I just want to encourage people to think a little more carefully about situations before they decide to go on a self-important diatribe via the Viewpoint page. Cartoons (especially nice ones like this) shouldn't be a cause for argument, killing should be avoided whenever possible (which it was), and a coach should have two main responsi­bilities, neither of which Davie fills. The world would be a little simpler and a lot better off if people would just use a little more common sense. 
Ryan S. Davis Senior Morissey Manor November I 0, 1999 
......._u..~_;;::.;______ 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Thursday, November 11, l 999 BSERVER page 15 
Taliban's abuse of womens' rights is not 'peace' 
For tlmsn ol' you who don 'l follow r.lll·­ront nvunls, or who U(ln'L care, or who happ1•11 to lw library rats who never see Uw light of day aml therefore wouldn't havn a clun if thn outsidr. world was taken owir by alii-ns, 
Nakasha

tlww ~as a coup in tlw small mun­Ahmad try or Pakistan about a month 
So, What's 

ago Tlw military 
1Wy Point?

coup ovorthrnw a dnmoaaticully nlnctPd govPrn­nwnt lhal was st1·aling, looting. and pretly much chnating its citimns. A gorwral is now in chargn of the country. 
i\bout two weeks ugo, them was a panel discussion lmld in the I Jr.sburgh Center on tlm coup. Orw ol'tlrn participants was Dr. .-\shutosh Varsl11wy, an associatn professor ol' govnnnwnt and int1\rt11tlional studies, and a fl'llow ol'both thn Kro,: and Kellogg lnstitutc,s. The other participant wa..,; Dr. Moonis Ahmar. a visiting follow at the Kroc lnstitut<,. connect1id with the Universitv or Karachi in Pakistan. Sinco my pan>1its urn from Pakisl/ln, and I still lmv1! some family thurn, I thought the pannl might be interesting. After the talk, tlwre WPW a number or questions from thn audi1me11, and a fow p11oplc asked what elTect this coup would have on the 
Taliban in Afghanistan. 
The Taliban is an EXTREMHY right­wing religious group that calls itself Muslim. According to news reports, this group has forcfld women to leave their jobs and quit their educations. Almost no women aro allowed to work. Tho govern­ment does not allow male doctors to treat fomale patients -and since very few of the women doctors ani allowed to work, women arn not gelling any type 
of' ad1•quatc medical 'The Taliban has violated gasped audibly. care. Womon arc not Peaceful? Yes, Dr.
human rights in any and
allowed to leave their Ahmar. any country hmm?s unless they wi-mr every sense ofthe word. " will be more "peaceful" 
thetic to the Taliban. So naturally, one of the qunstions to be asked is how the Taliban might react, and the implications of the coup on that facet. 
When asked that question, Dr. Ahmar responded to the effect that people had been making too much of a deal about the Taliban, and that Afghanistan had been more peaceful than it had been for a long time under the rule of the Taliban. 
Them were only a 
few women in that 
room, and all of us 

a heavy veil and are in t.he presence of a male relative. Any buildings in which womfm live have in havr. the win­dows blacked out, so they aren't getting any type or sunshine. The suicide rate is rnportod to be growing. 
If you arn a normal human being, you will pretty much !iutl these conditions hor­rible. The Taliban has violated human rights in any and every sense of the word. Since Afghanistan shares a border with Pakistan, there were rumors flying about that the former government, under Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, might be sympa­when you deny half of 
the population any 
basic human rights and lock them in their homes. These women are completely dependent on male providers. They can't get medical care. Hell, they can't even get sunshine. Certainly, it is true that American media has a bias against Muslim groups-I would be the first to admit that. However, it is equally true that the Taliban has violatod women's rights in some essential and pretty terrible ways. 
To say that such conditions are excus­able or expedient because they bring peace is plain wrong. To use the word peace in the narrow sense or "not war," or "not fighting" is to hold human rights and women's rights as not as important. If half' of the population of a country was being shut up on the basis of race or nationality or some other quality, them would be a hue and cry from the international com­munity. What if tho U.S. decidnd that it was going to shut up half of the population in thnir homes? It certainly might be morn peaceful. but it also destroys peop!n's civil 

. rights. Dr. Ahmar nxhibits a rash tlisrl!­garcl for tlrn rights of women that I find, quite frankly, dangi1rous. Locking peopl11 up in their homes is not excusablo on the basis of "pea't~:•• Boal pMl!e comos when all people have the freedom to work, to go out in the world. Denying these rights to half the population does not bring true peace. The rnal question is, what price will we pay for "peace?" 
Nakasha Ahmad is a junior at Saint Mary's College. Iler column runs every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are ' those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Diversity issues prompt peer education courses 
(;rnmi and white posters arc posted on tlm b11lh1ti11 boards inviting first year stu­d1mts lo partake in a dialogue on Tuesday evening 6:30 -8:00 p.m. Not much of an option if you can attm1d or not, since it is mandatory. Humblings arP hnard in thn hall­ways. In the sussion "They k1ww this was a Catholic univnrsity hdon' tlwy camp lwrn. So why did they come?" ;\ qrnistion pos11d about students ol' clilfor.-nt snxual ori­t)fltation. The same qw•stion could bP asked about non­ratlrnlics or students or color, since Notrn Dame is 84 perctmt whitn. 
I low did this conver­sation begin or why is it occurring? I rrflcctcd on the Diversity Education Institute that I attended the sumnmr of I1J98 at Texas A&M University. Forty administrators and faculty spent four intense days discussing oppression, the 'isms. hegmnony, and the cycle of socialization. Many of us have been work­ing in thn area of divnrsity for years. Snv1!ral worn new. They joined us because they rnaliznd the urgency in awakening our campuses to thn changing clcmo­1,rraphics and the demands corporations are placing on institutions of higher !earn­ing. To fully pr<ipare our st.uclents, WH had to suhjm:l ours1•lvus to discussions, which would mov11 many ol' us outside of our comfort znnns with 1wople we had just 
met. 
.-\flcr brief inlmduc:tions tlw rigors of the training bngan. We participatnd in work­shops Llwt exposnd old wounds. identified new hot buttons, and forcod us into Vf\rV stressful areas. We rw longer talked in · terms or political correctness, but to tlm heart and soul of what made each of us uniqut! and why that may make one uncomfortable. We confronted the hypro­crasy or our religious practicHs. We am taught to love one another, but wo have interpreted it to mean "love those like us and not accept those who arc di!Tercnt for whatever reason: race, nati()nality, gen­der. sexual orientation, etc. Yes. I admit­ted there were 'isms that I still needed to deal with no matter how painful it would bo. In order to become a role model for 


the students I work with, it was necessary 
for me to stop "skirting my hot buttons" 
and face them head on. 
l low I chose to do this was for me to 
take a visible stand for issues that I had 
stated in private, and not yet revealed 
publicly. That was in support of students 
who were struggling with their sexual 
identity. It has been very ea...:;y for me to 
speak on bnhalf of students of color, 
because they were facing similar situa­
tions that I had in college and still do in 
many areas, such as being one of two or 
thrM administrators of color in depart­
mental meetings or the only one in a com­
mitten, thereforn my voice is on the behalf 
of all under-represented groups. It 
becomes very frustrating and tiring, but if 
someone has to do it, then it is my duty. I 
foe! that Goel has placed me here. 
Therefore it is a small price to pay for my 
existence, especially if l am paving the 
way for others. 
As an administrator it is difficult to sit in a meeting and go head to head with col­leagues on diversity issues ofwhich you are passionate and realize that they can not even begin to understand why others feel isolated among the Notre Dame fami­ly. I mean, after all, we are all children of God. But if a student is Hindu or Buddhist, who is he or she a child of, per their per­ception? Do they need to turn from their religious beliefs of 18 years and embrace a form of worship completely foreign to their culture? 
Realizing that Notre Dame is 84 percent students of European descent. does that ml1an that under-rnpres('nted students must assimilatfl? Can they not sit in a classroom and give their opinion from their experience without it being stated that this is how all Latinos feel on the topic? Can an African American male walk across the campus and be acknowl­edged that he is here because of his acad­emic ability and not tho fact that he must be on the football team'? Or can an Asian or Native !\merican student be the recipi­e11i of a fencing scholarship versus filling a quota'? For over eight years students of color have posed those very questions and more to me, I have talked to them about being teachers, while attf\mpting to obtain their education. 
We have discussed at great length how they have had to address disr.riminatory acts by their peers. faculty, administra­tors. and visitors to campus, while contin­uing to hold their heads high with dignity 
and pride. Last year a Latino male who 
has been very active in the Notre Dame 
community shared his experience of work­
ing with catering during Junior Parents' 
Weekend. During the closing banquet he 
was serving and one of the parents in 
attempt to get his attention said "Hey, 
Chico." I wonder ifhe had been a white 
ma.le. would this parent have used a slang 
for whites, or if that is how he behaves in 
a restaurant. Also, what example has he 
been setting for his son or daughter in 
regard to under-represented groups? 
Because one is privileged, must he or she 
disrespect another who is assumed not to 
be? It reminds me of the quote from The 
Bad News Bears movie about assump­
tions. Not wanting to fit that definition, I 
can only believe that he is a perfect exam­
ple of why we need mandatory diversity 
workshops for all students attending Notre 
Dame. 
It is not becauso they are malicious and want to discriminate. Some just do not know any better, but others do. Some stu­dents have stated that they have been in morn diverse environments, and for oth­ers this is the most diverse experience they have had. This was one of the rea­sons why, upon my return to Notrn Dame, I began recruiting allies for a pHer educa­tion course. I felt if Texas A&M could have such a course and students willing to par­ticipate in educating first year students with or without credit, why could this not exist at Notre Dame. Certainly we have students waiting to be selected for the Learning to Talk About Race Hetrr.ats, the Center for Social Concerns ·cultural Diversity and Civil Rights Seminars, and Prejudice Heduction Workshops. So to recruit students for a diversity course would be easy, especially since many were enrolled in courses addressing race, eth­nicity and other relative topics and spoke very enthusiastically about them. 
The Office ofStudent Affairs' initiative which would call for diversity workshops in halls was a perfect match for a peer education component. Administrators and rectors volunteered to work on the steer­ing committee and spend three intense days with trainers from Toxas A & M to create several programs for the course. We all agreed that the workshops would be a starting place for dialogue. We did not want students sharing their stories as the focal point so those in attendance would emphasize with the panels and then go on their merry way with no personal assessment. We wantnd them lo look-at 

their values, percnptions, and determine 
how they could be an ally to someone dif­
ferent than themselves. At the least we 
wanted the students to leave asking a 
question. 

Having 27 students committed to attain­ing this goal is commendable. They have sacrificed evenings to perfoct their presen­tations and prepare for possible questions. I have seen these enthusiastic young adults place themselves on the lino for diversity. They realizn that for some, diversity will be a hard pill to sallow. Aller each Tuesday evening the lirst year stu­dents will look at them in a dilTerent light. Some will be thankful that they wHre given a forum to express their frustrations of not feeling welcome, while othnrs arc angry or frustrated because uncomfortable issues have beon raised, which they are forced to address. From the evaluations one theme has remained consistent: "I can not believe how narrow-minded some of my peers are." That to me is an excellent summation of why it is iniperativc that Student Affairs continue with the Practicum on Diversity Education. 
So I say to the tnam members as you see the solemn faces fi!n into the mandatory session, ~~~J?,,Y,PUr eye on the purpose of enlightenni(mt. That we are not asking other students to serve as b!eHding hnarts to make a point that we all have issuns with differences and that we need to address them. We need to servn as allies to those in need and judge each person on their own merit, not on stnrnotypes pro­vided by the media or a nngative interac­tion with one person. One person does not a group mako. 
Continue to talk about racism, classism. snxisrn. ableisrn, heterosexism and reli­gious discrimination. It is not an easy cross to bear, but there are allies and stu­dents who nefld to know that we are there. Also, know that Notre Dame is attempting to become a p!acu that is wel­coming to all. As David Moss, assistant vice•president for Student A!Tairs, continu­ally reminds us, the program is a "work in progress" and so aro we. 
Iris Outlaw is the director ofthe Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. This column usually runs every other Wednesday. 
The iiiews expressed in thi.,; column are those ofthe author aud not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


THE page 16 OBSERVER Thursday, November 11, 1999 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Collector' surpasses 'Copycat' with thrills 
ine. he sees she has a natural talent 
By CASEY McCLUSKEY 
in forensic sciences. Scene Movie Criric 
Since he no longer has the use of his 
body, he needs her. They need to 
The newest mystery thriller that has work together to become one unit to come out of Hollywood is director . examine the crime scenes. Donaghy Philip Noyce's ("The Saint," "Clear needs to let Rh vme be her teacher, and Present Danger," "Patriot while Rhymn nneds Donaghy to be his Games"! latest l'ilm, body at the crime ''The Bone scenes.
"The Bone
Collector." Linruln This case is not an HhvmP. (Denzel isolated one. The Washington) is the Collector" killer has left a num-New York police ber of forensic clues department's top 
that will lead the forensics expert. lfo police to his next vic­has written dozens tim. If Rhyme and ol' books about Donaghy can solve the
out offive shamrocks 
forensics and crime puzzle on time, they scenr.s and has br.en can save the serial called as an expert Director: Phillip Noyce killer's .next victim. If wit1rnss in hundreds they are too late more
-Starring: Denzel Washington,
of court cases. clues. and more bod­!Jut four years ago, Angelina Jolie, Queen Latifah and ies, will be left to lead 
a tragic accident left 
Ed O'Neill

Rhyme paralyzed. Ile only has use of one finger on his right hand and Pverything from the shoulders up. He is confined to the bed in his apart­ment and does all of his work through a state-of-the-art computer system. Since his brain is still fully functioning and Im is still regarded as the foren­sics expert. the police department has kApt him on the payroll as a consul­tant, though leaving him alone over the past four years. 
Then a new troubling case comes along which forces the NYPD to enlist its top expert. The case is the murder of a wealthy. powerful New York busi­nessman. This man and his wife got into the back of a cab and were never, seen again. 
A beat cop named Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie} stumbled across the body near an old railroad track. and using a disposable camera, took pic­tures of the crime scene before all the evidence gets washed away by the oncoming rain. When the department takes this evidence to Rhyme to exam-

them to figuring out 
the big picture. 
"The Bone Collector" is definitely an exercise in Denzel Washington's acting ability since he does not have the use of his body. I-le is forced to use facial expressions and voice intonations to portray his char­acter struggling with the fear of becoming a vegetable because of threatening seizures. Washington suc­cessfully pulls ~his off with an intensi­ty that he is famous for. 
Angelina Jolie, who has been seen in television's "Gia" and the movie "Pushing Tin," is brilliant as the stu­dent unsure of the abilities her teacher, Rhyme, sees as being so obvi­ous in her. She is-an upcoming star continuing to prove her ability to shine and increasing her visibility in Hollywood. Jolie is one of the most exciting new actors to come out of Hollywood and can be seen in her next film "Girl, Interrupted" which is coming soon. 
Director Philip _Noyce also makes himself known with this film. Through his direction, he creates a very-gothic feel in New York City where evil is around every corner and no one can be trusted. There are some amazing shots of the city that give New York's already mysterious personality a little evil twist. He continues to play with the camera and keep the scenes with Washington fresh, which is not an easy task to do since there are only so many angles to shoot a man in a bed. 
Many critics have compared this movie to "Seven" and "Silence of the Lambs," but a more valid comparison is "Copycat." This film succeeds where that one fails, though. The mystery is a little more intriguing and the· suspense a little more real. It is interesting to see how Hhyme, his motley crew of forensics experts and Donaghy figure out the clues that are le ft to them. and chase down the killer. The movie builds the audience up and has it on the edge of its seat, but does not quite deliver the killer ending to make this film go down as a classic of the genre. 

VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

Bridges leaves fear behind in 'Fearless' 
By JILLIAN DEPAUL Scene Movie Critic 

There is no doubt that most people have, at one time or another. had an experience that opened their eyes to that simple beauty of life they take for granted each day, even though it is always at their fingertips. And then, most likely, after a few days, the pettiness of everyday lifo creeps back up to draw a veil over their newfound vision. The rhythm of liv­
"Fearless" 

ing is so r,onsum­ing that sometimes iL is easy to forget
Director: Peter Weir 

to listen to the Starring: John Turturro, Jeff music. The main char­
Bridges, Isabella Rossellini, Rosie 

acter in the 1993 
Perez, Benicia Del Toro movie "I; earless." Max Klein (Jeff Bridges), survives 
a plane crash at thP opening of the movie. This experi­ence is intnns<'ly <'YP-opi>ning for him. He gains a whole new perspective on life that stems frnm the fact that he was not afraid during the crash. He comes to beli1we that his lack of fear was the reason for his survival. 
Consequently. he resolves to leave his foar behind in the ashes of the crnsh and to attack life with the reck­lr.ss abandon of a person who has conquered death. Even though he does not physically die in the crash, this experience is a spiritual death and rebirth. Max becomes enlightened, feeling as if he can see for the first time in his life while the rest of the world is com­pletely blind. He becomes marginalized because he has no tolerance for people who do not share his vision, which is just about everyone else that he comes in con­tact with. As a result, he alienates his wife and son and only associates with other people who shared his life­changing experience. 

Rosie Perez, who was nominated for an Academy Award for her performance in "Fearless," plays Carla. a woman who survived but lost her two-year old son in the disaster. Carla reacts conversely to the same expe­rience. She closes herself off to the rest of the world and just wants lo die because of the guilt she feels for losing her son. 
Despite their opposite reactions. these two characters are both marginalized because of their lack of ability to engage in a conventional lifestyle duci to their alternd state of mind. Therefore, they form a relationship that cannot be categorized. Although this relationship goes beyond friendship, and they have strong feelings of' love for one another. it is not truly a romantic attach­ment. Eventually, their situation becomes destructivn to not only their personal lives. but also their physical lives. 
Peter Weir, the Australian director or such othor fish­out-of-wnter lilms as "Witnnss," "Thi' Truman Show" and"Dead Poets Society," directed "Fearless." With"Fearlcss," Weir continues his own thematic tradi­tion of making films about characters who arn som<1­how enlightened within an oppressivn atmosphere. In "Fearless;" his direction is truly brilliant in that iL places lhc audience on the fringes of society along with Max. He gives his audience both an exhilarating taste of his freedom, while keeping them conscious of tho dc~structiveness of his behavior so thp,y can sham in his predicament. 
--------------------, 
M 
c~ne E ­
Thursday, November 11, 1999 ohsi:RvER page 17 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Being' is believing with John Malkovich 
By JOEY LENISKI S,·,•ne Mnvie Critic 
ln his "/\lhl~ory or tlw Cavn." thn C}nwk philosopher Plato f'ram!is tlH~ contnxt in whirh most humans per­cPiv,i n•a!ity using a very simpln m<itaphor. Ile claims I.hat wn dnlinn rnality as watching our own slHtdows hrr-ak upon a sto1w wall. whilP tlw sun and moon trav­,d ,tcrnss l!iP sky behind us in tlw ma! world of which w,• n·11111i11 blissfully unawarn. Onlv lhosn who turned l'rom U1Pir falsP p·rojPctions into· tlrn light or truth lwyond 1111' Cav1, could ovPrconw their "blindness" and 11!'hiPv1• ,•nlight1•1w<I thought. that !'or which all rn1•11 should slrivl'. 
But th nri• is irony in this 
"Being John

ancirnl t>:--am­plP. Olli'(' PXposPd lo tllf' Malkovich" light lhP phil11suphPI', ovPrwh<'lmPd hy tlw brigh 1­

0111 of fiue shamrocks

tH•ss a11cl IH•at 
or this IH'W rPalm. f'incls 
Director: Phillip Noye

that hP cannot sustain himsl'!f' Starring: John Cusack, Cameron Diaz 
i_n s u c ll an and John Malkovich 
l'llVil'OlllllPlll. 
IIP thus rPtrl'afs back lo c111111'url and sa1H'-lity or Uw Cave. wlrnrn hn is l'ren to think and liVI' in ('.11nt1:ivPd darknnss without the terri­hlt> rnnsriousnnss of' rl'alily or tho brutality of' tlrn light. 
"B.-ing .loh11 Malkovich" op1irat<is within this cont<ixt. PXrt•pt ii places a diffnrenl spin on Plato's classic 11wclnl or philosophy. The .film's characters do not ('lllPl'ge from tlm cave into a state or higher conscious­thing happoning before thoir eyes. They know it to be this year. Cusack is perfectly pathetic as tlrn prospec­ll<'SS. l!atl11ir, they nxist always in the light and the absurd, but wonderfully so. tor or the out-of-body experience, and Canrnron Diazharsh rnality which accompanies it. Like the ironic Screenwriter Charlie Kaufman skillfully interweaves shines as his frumpy, sexually-schizophrenic wifetwist in tlw "Allegory of the Cave," tlwse characters 
tlrn lives of five people who share little else in common Lotti.
sn11k slwltPr from tlw rnal world in the dank confines besides their obsession with the secret which Craig Catherine Keener plays workplace femme fataleof a world outside of Lhmns1\lves and their rnsponsibili­has revealed. Maxine with sultry enjoyment, toying with all three
tiPs. 
But the story is not played as straight drama. It is main characters as they try making sense of theirBut unlikl' Plato's story, this movie cwntually throws hidden underneath a "Comedy of the Absurd" which at spectacular serendipity. And then there is Johnllw playprs from th1iir place of hiding back into the times resembles skits from Saturday Night Live lay­Horatio Malkovich (yes, he actually is in the movie)ligh!. forcing t!wm \() confront reality and define their ered atop one another. His script flows fluidly from who pulls off the most difficult task of all -playinglivPs within ils t('rribl<1 scope. 
monologue-heavy drama to sketch comedy then back himself in the realm of everyday life. His "acting with­Marrind couple Craig and Lotti Schwartz (.John 
to drama without leaving characters behind or dis­out acting" method exhibits such realism that the
Cusack and Ca11rnron Diaz) nounder in the tedious tra­rupting the rhythm of' the film. audience almost forgets he stars in a movie with hisvails of' day-Ln-day life iri the Big Apple until the hus­
Director Spike Jonze, notorious for his "no-bound­same name.
hand discovers something remarkable: a way to 
aries" approach to the world of music videos for such "Being John Malkovich" is a hilarious yet poignantbt!conw the rnal-lifn actor John lloratio Malkovich for bands as the Beastie Boys and Fatboy Slim, shows his dark comedy which asks the viewer to suspend reality
15 111inut1is at a time. 
thematic maturity while retaining his penchant for for a couple hours and embrace everything illogicalTh,m• is whern the synopsis stops. To give away any captivating kinetic shots. Through inventive camera­about wanting to be somebody else. Like the charac­morn plot ddails hnr<~ would be to unravel the inge­work he creates a palpable experience for both char­ters in the film, the audience has the opportunity to
niously wovnn story which serves as the strongest 
acter and audience as they try to resolve the visceral throw themselves in a nonsensical world for but aas1wct of the lilm. The plot is consiructnd such that the world with the super-conscious experience of living mere fraction of its day. See this film and believe inaudi,)ncc is meant to uncover each action, surprisn or through another human being. what it has to show. And when it is -ll over, returnquirky asid(i in the movie as the characters on-screen Above all this is a character movie, and the film ben­into the light of reality and sec how the world has(\111·.ounter lhem. Thus as tlrn celluloid events tran­
efits from some of the best performances of' any film changed.
spire, vi1iwPrs sne, feel. laugh al and believe in every-


Box OFFICE 
This past weekend, 
~ eJi rJ. s-7
Denzel Washington 
and Angelina Jolie Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales "collected" the top spot in box office sales. The new 1. The Bone Collector $ 16.7 million $ 16. 7 million release, "The Bone 
2. House on Haunted $ 7. 7 million $ 28.0 million 
Collector" is a grip­ping tale about an Hill unusual murder that 
the brilliant head of 3. The Bachelor $ 7.5 million $ 7.5 million forensics, 
4. The Insider $ 6. 7 million $ 6.7 million
WashinW,on, must solve with the help of 5. The Best Man $ 4.3million $ 24.0 million a beat cop in train-,,,...,,
6. Double Jeopardy $ 4.3 million $ 104.3 million
ing, hotrayed by Jolie. Was ington sees 7. American Beauty $ 3.3 million $ 58.9 million 
much potential in Jolie's detective 8. The s·1xth Sense $ 3.1 million $ 264.0 million skills and therefore 
9. Music of the Heart $ 2.8 million $ 7.7 million 
trusts her to lead up the investigation. 10. Fight Club $ 2.4 million $ 31.9 million 
Source: universal Poetures 
Source Yahoo.com 

-
T H 
c~ne E R 
O
THE page 18 BSERVER Thursday, November 11, 1999 
THEATER PREVIEW 

SMC drafts 'A Piece of My Heart' 
later. the cast had finished a 
By MICHAEL VANEGAS real performance. and it lillecl 

Scene Editor 

the energy potential folt in tb1 
beginning. 
Forrest Gump went to But ";\ Piece of My Heart" Vietnam because it was the does not try to baflle audiences' only place that would take him. emotions with deeply profound The Jove of his life, Jenny, dramatic scenes. Instead. it protested it. attempts to lightheartedly and Robert De Niro and honestly delve into the hearts Christopher Walken went to and minds of the American 
•Vietnam in "The Deer Hunter," women who served in Vietnam. to fulfill their duties as an More than a feminist take on Arnt~ricans_ American military history, the 
Meryl Strecp, who loved them play provides a raw and viscer­both, stayed home, waiting for al perspective of lifo in the late their return. '60s. at the heart of America's 
llundrcds of' thousands of involvement in Vietnam_ 
American men served in The small cast of' "A Piece of Vietnam, for various reasons, My Heart," which includes six and with various outcomes. women and two men, provides 
Thousands of American a look at the diverse nature of women endured the Vietnam those Americans who served in War as well, typically as war the war. Thero is the war brat, nurses, and also as entertain­the intellectual, the sheltered ers. pariah, the hippie. the African 
"A Piece of My Heart," which American and the showgirl. opens tonight at the small the­Each cast member works with ater of Saint Mary's Moreau the other to present short but Center, focuses on the experi­detailed fragments of the ences of the American woman Vietnam experience. This, of in Vietnam. weaving the stories course, requires great empha­of six women into one quickly sis on the value of the team paced quilt of humor, regret, over the individual. The effec­drama and catharsis. tiveness of the cast as a team is 
At Monday's dress rehearsal. clear, as much of' the play the cast's first run-through in involves physical intimacy and full dress and with full techni­highly synchronized timing. cal work, the energy of a per­Ultimately, the strengths of formance ready to burst onto each of the actors in "A Piece of stage was high. This was evi­My Heart" will shine in the dent even in the sound booth, small auditorium at Saint led by a gal named Kate. who Mary's. In a play where there is couldn't help but yelling, "OK. I no designated lead actor, keep­have way too much damn ener­ing the audience's attention gy tonight." depends largely upon the evolu­
Monday night was also the tion of the unknowing time for the cast to realize the American female recruit into importance of acting in real­the hardened but sensitive time. Prior to the opening American female military scene, director Mark Abram­nurse. Copenhaver told his actors, "Do That this nvolution takes not play off things that are place within "A Piece of My imagined; play off things that Heart" is what will make the are actual." When the play a pleasant and eye-open­rehearsal ended 90 minutes ing journey into Vietnam. 
The cast of "A Piece of My Heart" takes a trip to Vietnam . 
..... 
CBS creates earthquake in New York City 
By CHELSEA J. CARTER  ited dialogue and mobility, she turns out her typical quality performance.  4-minute quake that topples the Manhattan ~\yline is a masterpiece of  
Associated Press Writer  "Aftershock" is a story that's supposed  computer graphics and special effects.  
to be fun  -the Big Apple getting cored.  Under the direction of Mikael Salomon,  
LOS ANGELES  But this effort takes itself too seriously,  who flooded a small town in "Hard Rain"  
Let's face it. movie makers and televi­ focusing too much on the characters'  and created a watery wonderland in "The  
sion producers love to beat up on New  relationships rather than their struggle to  Abyss," the earthquake wreaks uncom­ 
York City.  .  survive. The result is too many loose ends  fortably realistic destruction on the city.  
It's been stomped on by a giant lizard,  when the credits roll.  The Guggenheim Museum collapses,  
swallowed by a tidal wave and smashed  The movie also takes a few liberties  the World Trade Center's twin towers tilt,  
by an a-,teroid.  with reality-seismic and otherwise.  the Empire State Building crumbles and  
Now CBS is shaking and rattling it in  For instance, our ballerina arrives late  Rockefeller Center is buried under rubble.  
..,...  "Aftershock: Earthquake in New York," airing Sunday and Tuesday at 9 p.m. EST. "Aftershock" opens in Manhattan wilh joggers in Central Park. street vendors in  Photo courtesy of CBS "Aftershock" airs Sunday and Tuesday at 9 p.m-on CBS.  for a rehearsal and leaps into her jetes and plies without stretching so much as her pinkie. Yeow! And what about quake truths'?  Wall Street is flattened, the Brooklyn Bridge snaps and the Statue of Liberty takes a nosedive into the river_ It's television disaster at its host, eclips­ 
Times Square and workers grabbing cof­ "I thought we were  having an earth­ ing its 1970s predecessor "Earthquake,"  
fee on their way to work. Hours later. a magnitude-7.0 earth­quake crumbles the city. The story follows an only-in-New-York cast of characters through the debris of what was once their city as they struggle  vives the quake in a subway tunnel with her just-found-innocent-of-murder-hut­really-guilty client. To round out the cast, there is a feuding mayor (Charles Dutton of ''Oz") and fire chief (Tom Skerritt of "Picket Fences") as  quake," says the California mother (Sharon Lawrence of "Ladies Man") to her son. "Chill out, Mom. We don't live in L.A. anymore," responds the boy. Be assured; Those who have been  which destroyed Los Angeles. The highlight for disaster aficionados is the aerial view of a devastated city from a television news helicopter. But truthfully, there's nothing romantic or adventurous about such an earth­ 
to survive unimaginable devastation. There's a struggling ballerina (Jennifer  well as a transplanted California couple, apparently the only two people who know  through an earthquake know a tremor when they feel one.  quake. However unlikely, scientists estimate a  
Garner of Fox's "Time of Your Life") who, after diving for cover from falling bricks,  to stand in a doorway during a quake. The standout performance, though, is  In another scene, rescue officials gather thousands of survivors inside a stadium  magnitude-7 .0 earthquake -similar to the one that shook the Southern  
finds romance with a cabbie ("Armageddon" alumnus Frederick Weller). Then there's the defense attorney (Lisa Nicole Carson of "Ally McBeal"), who sur•  Emmy winner Cicely Tyson, who portrays the mayor's mother. She spends much of the movie trapped underneath a wooden beam of a destroyed church, preaching salvation to a street tough. Even with Jim- built out of brick. But that's the last place rescuers want people congregating in the hours after a quake, which is typically fol­lowed by numerous aftershocks. Despite the miniseries' handicaps, the  California desert last month -would cause a minimum of $200 billion in dam­age and at least 100,000 injuries if it hit New York City. In the end, that's not a pretty picture.  


Thursday, November 11, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
TENNIS 
No. 2 Davenport defeats Stevenson 
advanced to tho third round. As,ociat.cd Press Hingis, who has clinched the No. 1 ranking for the year, dis­VILLANOVA, Pa. patched Chanda Hubin 6-3, 6-0 
Al,ixandra Stevenson's in 49 minutes. She will face the 
rnmalch with Lindsay winner of Thursday's match 
Davcmport wasn't a slam dunk. between Amy Frazier and 
In thP shadows of the city Justine Ilenin in the third 
whcrn her father, Dr. J, soared round. 
to stardom, Stfwcnson had to Capriati defeated wild-card 
sett!P for improvrmenl. entry Kim Clijsters of Belgium, 
navonport, rnnkHd No. 2, 7-5, 6-3 for her first victory in 
ended Stevenson's first tourna-the Philadelphia area since 
nwnt in hnr fatlrnr's backyard 1992. Capriati, ranked 26th, 
Wndnnsday night with a 6-2. 6-must win the Advanta to quali­
3 victory in the second round fy for the Chase 
of the Advanta Championships. Championships in New York. 
It was their first mmiting Dav,mport had nine aces to 
s.ince Davenport . bo~th,,Stcvcnson's 13 and was calm, 
Stnv1)nson (;-1, b-1 rn Oie methodical. efficient as usual 
Wimhlndon somilinals, capping in advancing to the third 
a tumultuous omergence for round. Davenport, who has lost 
tlrn young woman Urn world in the finals of this tournament 
learrrnd was Julius Erving's the last two years, plays Julie 
daughter. llalard-Decugis of France in 
"It's a. grnat city. I like it tho third round. 
lwr<•." said Stev<>nson, who ''I think she will improve," 
played a couple of miles from Davenport said of Stevenson. 
wh1ir1i lwr dad lived wlrnn he "You definitely have to take 
playnrl f'or the Philatl,~lphia your losses when you're young 
7ficrs. and learn how to play.... She's 
"Shn 's always Hnjoyed also Amurican, so that makes 
l'hiladdphia," said her mothnr, for a bit of a rivalry. But I think 
Samantha StPVHnson. "She I have other rivals right now 
playml tlw grass courts here who come before her." 
for y1mrs. Slw's snen the Bnisy Much like their Wimbledon 
Hoss house, she"s seen it all." match, Davenport dominated 
Earli11r W11clnesday, top-early. 
sMdcd Martina llingis and She won the first five points 
unslieded .IPnnifor Capriati and broke Stevenson's serve 
twice in to take the first set 6­2. 
When Stevenson took a 3-2 lead in the second, her mother said, 'This is where you've got to be tough, right here!" It was Davenport who did that. win­ning the next four games. 
Stevenson hit a shot wide on the final point, pursing her lips as she shook hands with Davenport at the net. 
There was much less fanfare than at Wimbledon, when Erving acknowledged during the tournament that he was the 18-year-old's father. Only a few thousand fans were in the arena. 
Playing competitively for the first time in three weeks. Ilingis relied on a strong serve and solid groundstrokes to beat Hubin. 
"This was pretty good for my first time out in a while," said Ilingis, who plays the winner of the Justine Henin-Amy Frazier match on Thursday. "In the beginning I didn't know what to expect again. I served well today, which helped me." 
IIingis said she could play as ifshe had nothing to lose. 
"One thing's for sure," Hingis said. 'Tm going to stay No. 1 no tnatter what happens. 
That's a little bit of pressure off me. But I'd like to defenct my [Chase] title." 
BOXING 

Nevada investigates 
Boxing Federation 
Associated Press 
CARSON CITY. Nev. 
A weok after an International Boxing Federation official was indict­ed, state authorities outlined plans to probe the role of the !BF and other sanctioning organizations in Nevada's box• ing industry. 
Attorney General Frankie Sue Del Papa said Wednesday an investigator from her office will help the state Athletic Commission in scrutinizing how people licensed by the commission -including box­ers, managers and promoters -deal with the sanctioning groups. 
Del Papa said investigators also will examine the corpo­rat1~ status of the sanctioning groups, and consult with feder­al attorneys regarding the Nov. 3 indictments in New Jersey. 
Dr. Elias Ghanem. chairman of the Nevada Athletic Commission, said the panel "must ensure that everyone associated with the boxing industry is above reproach." 
"While we do not license sanctioning organizations, we do license promoters and box­ers who area members of these organizations," Ghanem said. 

"If tht~ attorney general's office uncovers evidence that any Nevada licensee has brought discredit to this state or to the boxing industry, this commission will take appropri­ate disciplinary action against that person or persons." 
IBF president Robert W. Lee Sr. and three group officials were accused of taking bribes from promoters and managers to manipulate rankings in a span of 13 years. 
None of the promoters and boxers believed to be involved were named in the indictment. but it referred to a fight in which a heavyweight champi­on faced a previously unranked boxer in 1995. 
There was only one such fight that year. when Ceorge Foreman defeated Axel Schulz to retain his title. 
Federal prosecutor Hob(irt F. Cleary said the bribes, totaling $338,000, started shortly aftHr the IBF was founded in 1984 and affected rankings in 10 of' the 15 weight classes, with larger payments made in the heavier divisions. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

gmbid.com is a pre IPO start-up SPRING BREAK 2000 4 Pit! Tix for sale Funky GOURDS 
NOTICES  luxury auction web site, pioneered by Georges Marciano, the founder of Guess? Jeans. We are looking  FOR RENT  Panama City Beach, Florida from $149 per person. Sandpiper Becaon Beach Resort  face value Dan 234-8646  Three for a dollar!! Fun imaginative shapes.  
tor a part time campus representa­ THE "FUN PLACE!"  B-BALL SEASON TIX  
THE COPY SHOP  tive to join us in arranging local pro­ ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Tiki beach bar entertainment by  $30 Call 4-4222  
LaFor1une S!udenl Center  motions, PR, giveaways, e-mail  HOME FOR  Boogie Incorporated.  
PHONE 631-COPY  campaigns, sponsorships, etc. Must  ND-SMC EVENTS.  Bikini contests, male hard body  FOR SALE:  STUDENT WORK  
WWW CopyShopND.com  be interested in marketing, a self­ VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  contests.  2 BC GA's with parking pass!!  Vector Marketing Corp. is now filling  
Store Hours  starter, fun, and a team player.  243-0658.  3 Pools, laxy river ride, water slide  call x4523  pit cust. sales & seivice positions.  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnighl  Please email resumes lo:  Huger beachfront, hot tub, mini golf,  Flex. around class.  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  reps@gmbid.com  WALK TO SCHOOL  gift shop, suits up to 10 people  Elton John tickets, face value  Transfers avail. over breaks.  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com  1-800-488-8828  Call 634-4588  $10.55 base-appt. Good resume  
Sun: Noon-Midnigh!  Wheelchair-bound woman seeks  232-2595 or  www.sandpiperbeacon.com  exp. scholarships awarded, cond.  
WANT TO LEARN ABOUT THE LAW? ND law School needs volunteers to be jurors  long-term wkend help for housewrk, errands, yardwrk. Avg Hrs 4-8 / wkend@ $7/hr. Day & time nego­tiable.  mmm.rentals@aol.com 4-6 student rental houses. Lots of extras. Huge Party Room.  TICKETS  Need 2 BC tix. Call 634-2755 Buying and selling Notre Dame vs. Boston College tickets/  apply. call mon-wed 12:30-5:30pm 282-2357  
in mock trials on Dec. 4 & 5.  Call Linda@ 219-273-7045 or 616­ Washer/Dryer, etc.  Call 289-8048.  
Stall, faculty and students are  663-2573  Dave 291-2209.  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual  
welcome. Please call Gloria  BALL TICKETS  4 BC Tickets needed!  students of ND/SMC  
Krull at 631-6860 to sign up.  FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!!  3 BDRM DUPLEX  271-1526  Must be close lo field.  Meeting each Thursday .  
SPRING BREAK 2000  REMODELED  Willing to pay big $.  For info, call (877)631-6OUT  
LOST & FOUND  StudentCity.com is looking tor  501 EDDY ST. 1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS  Call Brad @ 232-3464.  live rock and roll with  
Highly Motivated Students to  APPLIANCES, W/O  277-6619  Need as many BC tickets for as  
lost: earring, silver and amathysl,  promote Spring Break 2000!  273-8332  close as possible for friends and  ART  
sentimental value. Oct. 13 between  Organize a small group and travel  FOR SALE  family. Help me out. Call Brian at  &  
DeBartolo, stadium parking lot, and Decio. 233-8672  . ,!~REE!! Top campus reps can earn Ii Free Trip & over $10,000! Choose Cancun, Jamaica, or  FOR SALE  BC & ElTON JOHN tix. Best Prices AM -232-2378  634-3346  THE ARTICHOKES at Heartland  
$$$$Money found ...On South Quad... Early morning, Sunday,  Nassau! Book Trips On-line.  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  PM -288-2726  PERSONAL  10 pm Friday $1 w/lD  ...  
October 17...(Sunday before  log In and win FREE stuff.  Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  ND Football !ix  
break)... the sum was somewhat  Sign Up Now On Line!  Meals!  BOUGHT & SOLD  To my homies: Yo Yo Yo to Mary Z  
considerable...lf it was yours, call  www.StudentCity.com  Awesome  AM -232-2378  Quality Copies. Quickly'  and Carolyn B  
634-0970 wilh information  or 800/293-1443  Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun &  PM -288-2726  
Jamaica 7 Nights From $399'  We're open early, late, &  
LOST: Crucifix with brown beads  Kitchen Help  Florida $129!  FOR SALE  weekends.  
before break. Keepsake. Please  springbreaktravel. com  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  THE COPY SHOP  Look,ng for a unique gift idea?  
call Carol al 631-7484.  Now accepting applications for part­ 1-800-678-6386  laFor1une Student Center  How about a personali:i:ed color  
time kitchen help. Responsibilities  CALL 271-9412  Phone 631-COPY  picture calendar?  
WANTED  include seiving meals on a tray line and clean up. Hours: 4:30 pm to 8:30 pm. Meals  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412  WANTED: 4 Tenn. Tix 312-951-5008  Quality Copies, Quickly!  Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures and we'll do the rest!"  •  
provided.  FAX IT FAST!!  THE COPY SHOP  
Loving NO-SMC couple wishes to  Call Brenda for appointment 287­ FOR SALE  ELTON JOHN TICKETS  Sending & Receiving  Lafortune Student Center  
adopt. Will provide a lifetime ot  6501  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  at  
laughter. love, devotion and oppor1u­ Cardinal Nursing & Rehabilitation  CALL 271-9412  272-7233 GOOD SEATS ......  THE COPY SHOP  
nilies 800-484-4699 cocle 0019  Center  LaFortune Student Center  
To our 4am inquirer: all into kept in total confidence Please call back  1121 E. Lasalle South Bend, !N 46617  Phone Cards 669min. $20 243-9361 or 258-4805  I NEED BC TIX! GA OR REGULAR!  Our Fax II (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST!!!  www.thecommentalor.com  
anytime.Our prayers are with you.  EOE  634-2595  
Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  How much fun can you have in two  
Free One Bedroom Apartment near  WANTED:  with orthopedic mattress set and  Spring Break 2000 Free Trips &  hours? Nol much.  
Campus  Two part time employees to work in  deluxe frame. New, never used. still  NEED 2 ND-Pitt tickets. Call John  Meals.  
A family with three children seeks  a retail environment cloing custom  in plastic. $235  634-2795  Jama1ca,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad  
fun.energetic student or graduate lo  framing. Flexible hours. great pay,  219-862-2082  os,Florida.Padre.Book now for Free  There are no classes in Dillon.  
live In charming apartment for  and store d1scoun1s. Ideal appli­ Two Boston Collage tickets needed  Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before  
FREE in exchange tor mutually agreeable babysitting responsibili­ cants will have creativity, artistic expression. and skill to craft. Apply  '90 Toyota Tercel, 84K miles, 4­ call Tom 4-4853  Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!!  I won't hit you with my arm band next rime  
ties.Fax name.phone# and brief  in parson at Frame Factory,  speed, good condition. $1900  1800-426-7710  
note describing experience and  Scottsdale Mall, or E-mail resume  299-1608  Selling 2 Pitt tickets  Good luck tonight, Brooke!  
interests to Walker al 233-2308.  lo GMDALE@AOL.com  call Tim 4-4853  www .sunsplashtours.com  

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November l l, 1999 
NBA 

Orlando wins, despite Iverson 
Associated Press 
ORlANDO, Fla. 
Pat Garrity scored 25 points, and Darrell Armstrong had 20 points and 10 assists as the Orlando Magic weathered Allen Iverson's season-high 46 points to beat the Philadelphia 76ers 110-105 Wednesday night. 
Garrity came off the bench to make 10 of 11 shots and John Amaechi scored five of his 13 points in the final minute to help the surprising Magic improve to 4-2 with 
• their third straight victory. 

,.. 
Iverson overcame a slow start to score 36 points in the second half, including 22 in the third quarter when he made all eight of his shots and was 4-for-4 on 3-point attempts. 
The strong third quartPr by the defending NBA scoring champion lifted Philadelphia to 76-73 lead. But the 76ers, who are 1-0 at home but 0-4 on the road, never took con­trol of the game. 
Monty Williams gave the Magic the lead for good, 90­89, beginning an 15-6 spurt that allowed Orlando to go up 103-95 with just under three minutes to go. 
Suns 104, Nets 89 
Penny Hardaway scored 25 points as the Phoenix Suns won their fourth straight game, over the New Jersey Nets on Wednesday night. 
Phoenix hasn't lost since dropping its season opener at Denver. The Nets fell to 1-4. 
Tom Gugliotta scored 18 points for the Suns, and Jason Kidd added 15. 
Stephon Marbury led the Nets with 27 points, while Johnny Newman added 26. 
The Suns built a 33-16 lead after a first quarter in which they held the Nets to 31 per­cent shooting, outrebounded New Jersey 14-8, had four steals and blocked four shots. 
It was never close after Phoenix used an 18-4 run to take a 27 -12 lead. Hardaway led the charge with seven points. while Luc Longley and Shawn Marion each added four. 
The Suns led by as many as 24 points in the second period before taking a 56-36 lead into the break. 

Hornets 117, Bucks 1.11 
Eddie Jones had 33 points and the Charlotte Hornets overcame Milwaukee's 83 per­cent shooting in the third quarter for a victory over the Bucks on Wednesday night. 
Jones, who finished two points short of matching his career high, added five rebounds as Charlotte won for the first time in three games. 
The Hornets, which shot 52 percent and improved to 3-0 at home, also got 20 points from David Wesley and 18 apiece from Bobby Phills and Anthony Mason. Wesley had 10 assists, and Mason added eight assists and eight rebounds. 
Glenn Robinson and Rav Allen had 24 points each t~ lead the Bucks. who came in averaging an NBA-best 109.8 points. 
Sam Cassell added 21 points and nine assists for Milwaukee, which scored 42 points in the third quarter. 
Supersonics 109, Wizards 95 
Reserve Vernon Maxwell scored 24 points, and Gary Payton added 20 points and tied a career high with 17 assists as the Seattle SuperSonics continued to dominate the Washington Wizards with a victory Wednesday night. 
Seattle, which improved to 4-1, beat the Wizards for the 20th time in 24 meetings. 
Ruben Patterson scored 14 points and Vin Baker 15 as all five Sonics starters finished in double figures. 
Richard Hamilton had 15 points. and Isaac Austin and Juwan Howard scored 14 apiece for Washington, which has dropped four straight since winning ii'> opener. 
The Wizards, who started the game with a makeshift backcourt, have allowed 100 or more points in each of those losses. 
Washington's regular start­ing tandem of point guard Rod Strickland and shooting guard Mitch Richmond was missing. 
Richmond sat out the game v.ith a sore left knee a.nd was replaced hy Hamilton. Strickland was pulled from the starting lineup 45 minutes before the opening tip for undisclosed reasons. 
Wes Unseld, Washington's executive vice president and general manager, refused to comment on the reasons for Strickland's removal and called it a coach's decision. 
Lakers 89, Rockets 88 
Shaquille O'Neal and Charles Barkley ejected for a sAcond-quarter scuffle and Glen Rice scored 24 points as the Los Angeles Lakers sent the Houston Rockets to their fifth straight loss Wednesday night. 
The Lakers won for the fifth time in six games but had to do it the hard way. 
O'Neal and Barkley were ejected after a scuffle under the Rockets basket with 9:03 to go in the second quarter. 
Barkley tried to go up for a layup and was blocked under the basket by O'Neal and the ball went out of bounds. Barkley retrieved the ball and got a small shove from O'Neal. 
Barkley threw the ball at O'Neal and the two went for each other and grappled each other to the floor as players and coaches from both teams rushed to quell the scuffle. 
The Lakers led 50-49 at the half and the Rockets got only one brief lead in the second half, 78-77 after a 3-point play by Hakeem Olajuwon with 
7:22 left in the third period. The Lakers led 89-84 with 
1:38 to go and the Rockets got it down to one point on a bas­ket by Carlos Rogers with 57 seconds to go and two free throws by Steve Francis with 38 seconds left. 

The multicultural Student flffairs Office 6 
The ftfrlcan 6 Hfrlcan-Hmerican Studies Program proudly present 
African Dance & Dn1m Workshop 
By

.. 
Boynarr Mamadou Sow, Master Instructor or West-African Dance & Drumming from Senegal 
Dates & Time: 


Friday Nov. 19 @ 4:30 PM 
&· 

Sunday Nov. 21 @ 3:00 PM 
Venue: Ballroom/Lafortune 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Duke faces Stanford 
•

1n season opener 
A.lsociated Press 
NEW YORK 
The opening game of the col­lege basketball season will fea­ture two nationally ranked teams loaded with freshmen. The second game will bP. Connecticut's first as defending NCAA champion. 
The Coaches vs. Cancer Classic at Madison Square Garden on Thursday night starts four months of collegP. basketbaJl, culminating with the Final Four in lndianapoiis. 
No. 10 Duke meets No. 13 Stanford in the opener, fol­lowed by No. 1 Connecticut against Iowa, a rematch of last season's NCAA tournament round of lfi. The championship game is Friday night. 
Duke lost to Connecticut in the title game in St. Petersburg. Fla., last March. The only returning Blue Devils are for­wards Chris Carrawell, Shane Battier and Nate James. 
Gone are senior sharpshooter Trajan Langdon as well as national player of the year Elton Brand. William Avery and Corey Maggette. all underclass­men now in the NBA. 
That means coach Mike Krzyzewski's recruiting class, considered the best in the nation, will be the core of a team that last season finished 37-2, including 16-0 in the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
'Tm glad we had them. but to me that was ages ago" Krzyzewski said of the four lot­tery picks. "In coaching, you have to get on to the next thing right away. Once last year was over it's over. My complete focus went to the next year and mine has been." 

The freshman who should get the most notice is point guard .Jason Williams. 
"Jason is still learning how to play point guard and develop the feel and thought process of handling a team for 40 min­utes," Krzyzewski said. "He's going to be an outstanding potnt guard. He's a good one now and he's a willing learner." 
Stanford has only senior for­ward Mark Madsen back from last season's team that reached t,he-1reeond ·ronnd of the NCAA tournament. 
"It seems awfully early to be playing a game of this caliber," Stanford coach Mike Montgomery said. "We are young, and stuff you assume they know they don't. Obviously, we have some quali­ty back with Madsen. But I've been concerned with -can we be ready as quickly as we need to be?" 
Connecticut has three starters back from the team that won it all. One player the Huskies have to replace is All-America Richard Hamilton. 
"l really want them thinking that last season is over," coach Jim Calhoun said. "It was a sea­son for a lifetime. Let's start another season for a lifetime and build upon that. But this is a new season. We're 0-0, not the team that won the national championship." 
Iowa has a new coach in Steve Alford. Seven of last sea­son's top nine players arc gone from the team that lost to the Huskies in the tournament. Calhoun called that game the most physical of his 28-year career. 
On Wednesday, November 17 from 2:30 to 3:30, Mr Bill Shore will give a presentation at the Hesburgh Center for International 
Studies Auditorium. Following this presentation, Mr. Shore will do a book signing for his latest book, 
The Cathedral Within. 
'1':'r 
BILL SHORE is the founder and executive director of Share Our Strength, a national nonprofit organization that has raised more than $82 million to sup­port anti-hunger and antipoverty efforts worldwide since its founding in 1984 and has mobilized tens of thousands of individuals to contribute their own talents to such efforts. 

-·--­

Thursday, November 11, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
OLYMPICS 
. 

Co01mittee wants US to join international drug agency 
Associated I'ress 
LONDON 

The lulernational Olympic Committee <'stablishcd an international agency Wednesday to comhal drugs in sports and hopPd its loading critk -the Unit,\d Sl!ttes -will t.akn part. 
The agnncy is tnmpornrily based in Urn IOC's h onrn city or I.uusan n e, 
Switzerland, with IOC vice president Dick Pound Urn chairman. 
The new group will operate under Swiss laws and be known as the World /\nti-Doping Agency. 
Its tasks include: cslablishing a sin­gle list of banned substances, coordi­nating unannounced out-of-competi­tion drug testing, developing standards for collecting and analyzing samples, pushing for unified drug sanctions and 
Social Concerns Seminar: Theo 366 Spring 2000  tl-11CEN1ER FOA  
SOCIAL  
CONCERNS  


-> A two-week service-learning opportUnity in Mexico: May 17 -31, 2000 -> Students earn one credit (Fall 2000) -> In Mexico, students experience and reflect upon the economic, political, and 
social realities ofLatin America -> Students chosen to participate in the Mexico Seminar meet weekly during 
the Spring Semester to plan, organize and fundraise for the trip 
-> Knowledge of Spanish is helpful, but not required 
-> Open to Notre Dame and St. Mary's juniors, sophomores, and freshmen 
-> The Seminar fee is $500 ($100 deposit with remainder due in April) 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Monday,November15,1999 
4:30 p.m. Center for Social Concerns APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE CSC APPLICATIONS DUE NOVEMBER 22 (preferred) or November 30 (last day) With $100 Deposit Deposit returned if application is not accepted 
For more information contact 
Ben Peters, 631-5370 or 631-5293 Joe Lake, 634-4917 Marina Ziolkowski, 634-2532 


It's time for you to make the calls. To create your own future. 
To have a real Impact. 

After all~ it's your world. 
And we'd be a perfect f'lt. Because only at Ford Motor Company will you find a spectrum of opportunities this broad and a level of Impact this Impressive. The fact Is, we"re experiencing a majcr transformation -to a consumer company that provides automotive products and services. And to be successful, we need professionals with the hunger to 1earn. The knowledge to teach. And the ability to lead. We"re entering a period full or big challenges -and even bigger decisions. ls your world ready for It? 
Please join us for a presentation by: 

Michael H. Rogers Chief Financial Officer John A. Kaplan 
Executive Vice President Ford Unlimited EnterpriseFord Mot.or Land Services 

and car-club.com 
Jordan Audit.orium College of Business Admlnist.ration November 16, 1999 
1:00 p.m. 

Ford Representatives wlll be available to answer your questions and discuss career opportunities with Ford Motor Company. 

sv choice. we ant an E<1ual Opportun1ty·Emp1ov,cr c:ommltwd to a .:ultunrlly dtvene wcrlcf'on:e. 
promoting research. current framework for the WADA as 
The agency will be governed by a inadequate to protect the world's clean board of at least 10 members and no athletes." more than 35. Mccaffrey will head a U.S. delegation 
"Everybody has a stake in making it at the 26-nation International Drugs in work," Pound said. "As Sport Summit next far as I can tell, it's the . week in Sydney,
"As Jar as I can tell, it's

first time you're going to Australia. He said have all the players on the first time you 're the summit can the same table at the going to have all the produce the same time with the same improvements for a
players on the same table

objective." "fully effective and Members will be at the same time with the independent appointed to three-year WADA."
same objective. ,, 

terms, with the possibili­Pound, in a tele­ty of two additional phone interview terms. with The
Dick Pound Twelve members have IOC vice president Associated Press, 
been appointed so far. 
The four IOC represen­tatives are: Pound; Arne Ljungqvist of Sweden, who is also chairman of the medical commission of lhe International Amateur Athletic Federation; Prince Alexandre de Merode, longtime head of the IOC med­ical commission; and Jacques Hogge, an IOC executive board member and vice chairman of the' medical panel. 
Representing international sports federations: Hein Verbruggen, presi­dent of the Imernational Cyling Union. and Anders Besseberg, prnsident of the International Biathlon Union. 
Members of the IOC athletes' com­mission: former U.S. Olympic volleyball player Robert Ctvrtlik; former Italian cross country ski star Manuela Di Centa; Norwegian speed skating great Johann Olav Koss; and commission chairman Peter Tallberg of Finland. 
Public authorities are represented by Suvi Linden, Finland's culture minis­ter; and Awoture 
Eleyae, secretary general of the Supreme Council for Sport in Africa. 
The IOC said the agency is expected to invite representatives of national governments, including Australia and the United States, to serve on the board. 
One of the most outspoken critics has been Barry McCaffrey, director of the White House drug office. He called the agency a "starting point" on Wednesday and emphasized he does not think it will be sufficiently indepen­dent from the IOC. 
"In the long run we've got to do bet­ter," he said in Washington. "The United States continues to view the 

said he hopes the United Stutes comes on board. 
"It's a very important country, a country in which there is a consider­able concern about doping," he said. "I think we have addressed all the con­cerns about independence and trans­parency that the general raised." 
Pound expects the first meeting to be in mid-December. I-le said no single group can control the agency. 
"I don't understand how you could come to any other conclusion," he said. "The IOC is going to have only a 12.5 percent share." 
Pound said it's "unfair and unreason­able" to demand the IOC have no role in the agency. 
"The IOC has initiated or been part of every single action against doping in sport for the last 30 years," he said. 
The agency was endorsed by Vivien Reding, the European Union's sports commissioner. 
"I believe the Americans will join when they see that really the agency is working in a balanced and transparent way," she said in Belgium. 
Mccaffrey and others do not want the agency in Lausanne. 
A number of European cities would like to serve as headquarters, and the IOC plans a bidding process for a per­manent seat. 
The IOC has contributed $25 million to start the agency but expects govern­ments and others to pay their share. 
"We'll be carrying the freight our­selves for the first couple of years," Pound said. "After that, you have lo pay the same price for a place at the same table." 


Visit The Observer online at http://www.nd.edu/-observer 
Cu:i(ios??? about ltow"' WU1U • positive impression 
on e11tployers? 
attend the 

Pro,fessional Etiquette 
Workshop! 

When: Thursday, November 11, 1999 Wherg: Flanner Hall -Room G20 (Lower Level) Time: 4:00 -5:30 p.m. Le..-n tecbaiquea for conda.cting yo11nelfappropriately la a baainess settiuc! 
(Worksr..op wtll also cover e-mail etiquette & effective /i.,tentng teclmiques) 
Presented by: 

Gwerl,McCauley, Region Development Manager General Mills 
and 

Olivia Williams, Asst. Director Office ofThe Career Center 
A.II Collqo Welcome/ 

Ei 



page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 11, 1999 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Wisconsin's Dayne 99 yards from division rushing title 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Tr,xas 
One season after Ricky Williams set a bundle of records and staked a claim to be consirlerPd among the best running backs in college histo­ry, his must cherished record is about to be broken. 
Wisconsin's Hon Davne needs 99 yards Saturday against a · bad Jowa team to dethrone Williams as the Division I-A rushing king. 
Williams' former teammates and coaches at Texas say that shouldn't take away from what last year's Heisman Trophy winner accomplished in shat­tering a record that Tony Dorsett had held since 1976. Williams finished wiLh 6,279 yards. 
"So many people were pulling for it and he did it in style," offensive lineman Roger Hoesler said "With Ricky, no one approached the rncord for 22 years. No matter if Dayne breaks his record or not, peo­ple will rememher Hicky for those reasons." 
Williams and Dayne ran to 

Saint Mary's ColleQe Apowerful drama based on the actual VietnafTJ War experieRCIJS of sixArnerican women. 
Thursday -Saturday November 11 -13 ..atap.m. 
Sunday, November 14 
at2:30 p.m. 
Little Theatrs 
· Box Office at 
2844626 




.,. 
TIit;· -llJrAS.O:N$.
. ­
TO ·1'-AltfY •R-E
• • •• I ­
!ENl>~E.S. .Sl 
GIANT PARTY SUBS FOR ANY OCCASION! 
(Please Order At Least 48 Hours In Advance) 
•1706 
South Bend Ave (Walking Oistance!)243~7738 

•SR 
23 & lronwood/277 • 77 44 •Indian Ridge Plaza/271-1772 


•52577 US 31 N (North Village MaI1)277-1024 
the top under remarkably dif­ferent circumstances. 
Dayne has been a featured back for four seasons. Williams spent his first two years under former Texas coaeh John Mackovic as a fullback. 
Breaking the record was a mission last season for the Longhorns and coach Mack !frown. 
Wisconsin coach Barry Alvarez has refused to alter his game plan to help Dayne pad his stats. 
Williams, the dreadlocked Californian with the pierced tongue, evolved into a cult per­sonality among the Texas faith­
ful. 

After he broke the record, Austin city offir.ials toasted Williams and his teammates with a downtown parade. 
The mood is more subdued this year in Madison, Wis. While Dayne's chase has been an avid topic of conversation, the No. 9 Badgers' six-game winning streak and Rose Bowl hopes are getting just as mur.h publicity. 
The Longhorns went into Williams' senior year off a 4-7 season that got Mackovic fired and Brown hired. Williams had surprised everyonf' by staying 

TAOS ARTISTSAND THEIR PATRONS, 
1898-1950 
FINAL WEEK 
Exhibition Closes Sunday November 14 

Special Closing Day Tour Sunday, November 14, at 2:30 p.m. led by Dean A. Porter, director emeritus of the Snite Museum of Art and co-curator of the exhibition 
Free and Open to the Public 

The Notre Dame presentation is generously sponsored by Mr. and Mrs. Arthur J. Decio 
The Snite Museum of Art . University of Notre Dame 
SU B's ~ophomore literary festival presents-
November 16 
Lafortune (huddle} 
8:00-10:00 pm 
in college and Brown felt he owed his star a shot at the record as a token of' apprecia­tion. It also was the best way to help Texas win, and it worked as the Longhorns went 9-:1. 


Thursday, November 11, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
Calendar of Events 
Freshman Retreat #26 (Dec. 3-4) Sign.Up 
Monday, November 8 through Monday, November 29 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Farley, Fisher, Knott Pangborn. Siegfried, Stanford, and Welsh Family 
El Retiro Retreat 
Friday -Sunday, November 12-14 Sunset Lodge in Michigan 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, November 16, 7:00\.M. Badin Hall Chapel 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, November 17, 8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesday. November 17, 10:0010:30 p.m. Walsh Hall Chapel ­A spirit-filled, student.led power half hour of prayer and music for students of all Christian faith traditions 
Thirty-third Sunday In Ordinary Time 
Weekend Preslders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, November 13 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Michael J McCarthy, S.J. 
Sunday, November 14 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Rev. James B. King, C.S.C 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. John A. Herman, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Proverbs 31: 10-13, 19-20,  
30-31  
2nd Reading  1 Thessalonians 5: 1-6  
Gospel  Matthew 25: 14-30  

Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Chastity but Were Afraid to Ask 
Jim Lies, C.S.C.[Lies.4@nd.edu] 
[ went to lunch a while back with two Notre Dame seniors. It's dif­ficult to explain just how our conversabon came around to such topics as sexuality, but eventually it was established that both of the young men were virgins -by choice. I wish that fact, and the fact that I've recounted it here, wasn't so alarming to the average college student. I'm embar­rassed to say that I was actually surprised by their willingness to share such an intimate detail, especially in a culture which appears to marginal­ize anyone who would make such a commitment, and certainly anyone who would proudly proclaim it. Even as such a choice and such honesty are remarkably refreshing, I don't feel comfortable using even their first names here for fear that they might come to be known and thought fools for such a choice in our time. The claim that "The names have been changed to protect the innocent," has never meant so much. Both that they are innocent and that, in our time, they need to be protected. 
Even as I am quite sure there is a silent substantial minority, if not majority at Notre Dame who live chaste lives, whether by choice or not, theirs are not the stories we hear. For some reason, it is not the least bit fashionable, or hip, or cool, or trendy, or whatever the contemporary par­lance would label it these days, to talk about sex unless, of course, you're getting some. In what imagineable context, afterall, would someone who chooses chastity have to brag about his or her latest exploits? What has created the culture in which we are supposed to be embarrassed for mak­ing morally relevant choices? How is it that we have come to a time when sex is portrayed as a virtual recreational activity for which the only moral criterion is mutual consent? I have no answers, and I realize I risk offend­ing many by even taking up the question, but it's high time we stopped to reflect on the choices we've made, and will make, in this regard. 
There is much confusion these days about just what chastity is or why one would choose it. It is all too often thought to imply repression. Sadly, we speak little of the merits of it, even as the choice of it would undoubtedly enhance the lives and happiness of all who would choose it. In an article in America, Mary Patricia Barth Fourqurean writes that "chastity means passionate love for God, others and ourselves, a three­fold love expressed in three different ways," through marriage, vowed religious life, or the single life. Chastity does not necessarily imply celiba­cy. The chaste marriage is not sexless, but faithful. For vowed religious, celibate chastity frees us from the exclusive bond of marriage in order to be freer to serve God and others. For those who are not called to religious life, and who are not yet married, chastity means "a temporary, non-geni­tal commitment to this three-fold love of God, others and ourselves." The grace in the decision to be chaste is that one is freed from having to rene­gotiate the limits of sexual expression with every encounter and every relationship, and that one is freed from having to play sexual games. 
Ultimately, what we probably most need to hear about chastity is that it increases our own sincerity by assuring us that we will not say more with our bodies than we mean with our hearts. It does not rule out rich intimate relationships; it fosters them. Each and all of us long to be men and women of integrity, and to live lives which reflect that which we believe. In a world which seeks instant gratification, there is the real dan­ger that we do not reflect enough about something so important. This is especially true when the worst choices we make in this regard are so often induced by alcohol. Some of the most painful conversations I have had as a rector and as a priest have had to do with the deep regret young men and women have after expressing themselves sexually in a way that was not consistent with who they knew themselves to be, and whom they want so desperately to be again. 
It's time to rise to the challenge of living the lives that deep down we know we want. It's time to consider who we are and who we want to be. It's time to support others who would make the same choice, either to maintain their virginity or to reclaim their chastity. The choice for chastity is not about outdated traditions and strictures; it's about living life with integrity. Please don't enter into a sexual relationship because you can't think of a reason not to, or because "everybody else is doing it." Enter in because you love the other, and because all of who you are says "Yes!" in the context of a lifetime commitment. 
C. S. Lewis said it far better than I when he spoke to a group of col­lege students at Oxford, "Indeed, if we consider the unblushing promises of reward and the staggering nature of the rewards promised in the Gospels, it would seem that our Lord finds our desires, not too strong, but too weak. We are half-hearted creatures, fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us, like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea. We are far too easily pleased." 

-CAMPUS 
~INISTRY 
----~ 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 11, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Prentice denied 
ownership of Royals 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Miles Prentice's $75 million bid to purchase the Kansas City Royals was rejected by baseball on Wednesday. 
Baseball owners voted 29-1 in September to table the bid, saying the wanted the team to pursue other alternatives. On Tuesday, Prentice asked the Royals to ask the commission­er's office for specific objec­tions. 
Robert DuPuy. baseball's chief legal office, responded with a letter to the Rovals late Wednesday. · 
"I spoke with Mr. Prentice this afternoon," DuPuy said, "and told him that based on the opinions of the ownership committee and the commis­sioner, he would not be approved as the control per­son, that we appreciate his efforts and his enthusiasm for the Royals and baseball, and that I was sending a letter to the board advising them of that." 
Prentice, a New York lawyer who had purchased a condo­minium in Kansas City with the hope he-would take over the team, had said Tuesday he was worried baseball's decision was "a fait accompli." Baseball officials have said since May that Prentice's group of 40­plus investors was too large and that it did not have enough money to successfully operate the franchise. 

"We're sad tonight for Miles, for him and his whole family," Royals president Mike Herman said. 
The Royals said the sale process will be reopened and will continue to be managed by 
J.P. Morgan, a New York investment banking firm. 
"The Royals board would like to extend our appreciation and admiration to Miles and his investor group for how they have handled themselves throughout this difficult process," Herman said. "They made a substantial offer for the ballclub and worked well with the board." 
Prentice did not attend the news conference Wednesday night. The minimum purchase price for the team will remain at $75 million, Herman said. 
"We advised the board that we look forward to continuing to work with them to speedily find a way to keep baseball in Kansas City, which is a prima­ry objective," DuPuy said. 
Commissioner Bud Selig declined comment, referring the matter to DuPuy. 
"Now that major league baseball has made a decision," Herman added, "we need to reopen the process and contin­ue towards our objective which is to insure that our team stays in Kansas City and we get the maximum value for charity." 
Barger nruned to All-MIAA terun 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Sports Writer 
Senior co-captain Katy Barger was elrcted to the All­MIAA First Team Nov. 9, becoming the first Belle in Saint Mary's history to be named to either the First or Second Team AII-MIM in soc­cer. 
"Katy Barger is one of the best players to ever pass through the doors of [Saint Mary's College]," head coach Jason Milligan said. "She pos­sesses talent that would place her among the best players in the nation." 
Barger scored eight goals and made nine assists during the 1999 season. She finished the season with 25 points. Barger also made the MIAA League Leaders list for her assists. 
"Katy is a phenomenal play­er." fellow honoree Heather Muth said. "She's been a huge inspiration to me all year. She's one of the most dedicat­ed players I have ever played with. Her positive attitude real­ly helped our team achieve a successful season. I think it says a lot about her as a player that she not only accomplished individual goals but assisted her teammates in achieving theirs." 
Barger also scored more 
shots than any other member 
of the team, with 111 of the 
team's season total of 400. The 
center midfielder scored two 
goals (one was a diving head­er) and had one assist against Goshen College on Oct. 3. 
Harger also had a hand in all five goals in the shutout against Defiance College on October 23. In that game. Barger scored one goal and then made four of her nine season a._<;sists. 
"Barger works really hard," fellow honoree and senior co­captain Rachel Egger said. 
Egger. Muth and Mary Campe were named to the All­Ml AA Coaches' Honorable Mention. 
"I think it says a lot about our team that even though we finished fifth in the conference we still got recognition," Barger said. "llhc fact that] some of us did receive confer­ence honors is a tribute to the whole team. [Soccer] is a team effort. We really had a success­ful year." 
Primarily a defensive player, Egger also scored two goals this season on seven shots. 
"I love our team," Egger said. "l love playing with all of the girls. I was very lucky. Jared [Hochstetler, the assis­tant and defensive coach] inspired me on and off the field." 
With goalie Brie Gershick, Egger and her defensive team­mates allowed only 26 goals off of 192 shots, and held for eight shutouts. 
"Rachel really did a great job as far as holding the defense together," Milligan said. "Her leadership on the team this year has been wonderful. She always brings a smile and a good work ethic to practice." 

Campe, a freshman, moved to forward from defense early in the season. 
She finished second behind Barger with 45 scoring attempts, four of which she completed to score, 
"Mary did an outstanding job," Milligan said. "She's a freshman this year and we look for her to do an outstand­ing job in the future." 
Muth. also a freshman, fin­ished the season with two goals and one assist. She is credited with the l -0 win against Adrian on September 
25. The game was scoreless until Muth got past the Adrian defense with two minutes left in the second overtime. In a one-on-one with Adrian goalie Sarah Moulik. Muth shot the ball across the goal from the left side into the upper right­hand corner fur the win. 
"Heather Muth will be the next star at [Saint Mary's College]." Milligan said, "She has a wonderful attitude and will achieve a great deal while she is here.·• 
Barger and Egger both made the Coaches' Honorable Mention squad in 1998, along with current seniors Liz Coley and co-captain Erin McCabe, junior Laura Paulen. and sophomores Katy Robinson and Jessica Klink. 
"It's a great honor because this season was fun and we worked hard," Campe said. "I think this is the beginning of a great future for Saint Mary's soccer." 



JOHN DAILYffhe Observer 

Playing here against the International Select All-Stars, sophomore Harold Swanagan hopes to retain his image as a defensive threat on the court this season. 

The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 11, 1999 
"My goals are always high," Swanagan said. ''I'm looking forward to making it to the NCAA tournament." 
In order to do that, they will need contributions from the entire team. Top upperclass­men returning arc guards .Jimmy Dillon. Martin Inglesby and Antoni Wyche. 
Newcomers to Notre Dame basketball include freshmen Matt Carroll in the backcourt and Jore Macura at small for­ward, both of whom scored in double digits in the first exhi­bition game. 
"We can't wait for them [the freshmen] to matuni," Graves said. 
"With the help of them, we'll surprise a lot of people around the country. The big difference about this year and last year is we weren't as ta!­
ented and as deep as we are now." 
Doherty is confident at the team's prospects heading into the regular season. 
"I just think we're capable of doing whatever we set our minds to," Doherty said. "l want to be able to expect to win every game." 
Tontght, the Irish get their final chance to tune up before the wins and losses start to count. They face '.\1arathon Oil at 7:30 p.m. in the JACC. 
"I think they'll be a good opponent for us." Doherty said. "But I'm more concerned with ourselves and gntting ready for the Ohio State game." 
The first exhibition game for the Irish ended up a 94-79 win over the International Select All-Stars. 
You buy a $20 card. You get $20 worth of vvireless calls. 
( It's not like you need to take Critical Perspectives in Economic Theory to figure that one out.) 
S1Q FREE AIRTIME 
WITH NEW ACTIVATION* 
Our Prepaid Wireless service is a great way to get wireless when you need it at a price you can afford. Simply purchase our Prepaid Wireless Cards. You can use your own phone, or buy our prepaid package and get a phone. When you need more time, just purchase additional minutes. It's truly wireless when you want it. 
1-800-219-9636 • www.alltel.com Mishawaka: 505 W. Douglas Road • Elkhart: 3365 S. Main Street 
.AlltEl 
The power to simplify 
i 10 free otter good with new a<.,ount activation. Offer good until Decernber 31, 1999. Customet ma~ provide equipment or purcha«: equipment from ALLTEL Non·u5age fee of up to i4 a vveek may apply Roaming and long-distance foes may epply. Taxes will appty on a per-call basis and will be deducted from S 10 free airtime credit. See ~ore for detail~ 
• 
----7 
I 

Thursday, November 11, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 27 I 
I I

student union 
HAPPENINii§ 
STUDENT UNION BDARD WWl/ll.nd.edu/-sub 
Movie: The General's Daughter. 
11/11.  Thursday.  Cushing Auditorium.  1030PM.  
11 /12.  Friday.  Cushing Auditorium.  0800PM & 1030PM.  
11 /13.  Saturday.  Cushing Auditorium.  0800PM & 1030PM.  
Acousticafe.  
11/11.  Thursday.  Lafortune Huddle.  0900PM-1200AM.  
Tom Deluca.  
11/11.  Thursday.  Stepan Center.  0700PM.  
SLF Coffeehouse.  
11/16.  Tuesday.  Lafortune Huddle.  0800PM-1 000PM.  
Cowboy Mouth.  
11/17.  Wednesday.  Stepan Center.  0800PM.  
SUB Member of the Month.  
Liz Etta.  October.  Congratulations Liz!  

HPC (HALL PRESIDENT§' COUNCIL] 
Navy Ball. 11/12. Friday. 
Farley/BP Dance. 11/12. Friday. College Football Hall of Fame. 
Walsh Dance. 11/12. Friday. Off-Campus. 
Air Force Gala. 11/13. Saturday. 
Circle H 
Service Week. 11/6-11 /13. All week. e-mail Doyle.45@nd.edu for info. 
CLAS§ OF i!!OOi!! and i!!UU3 
Dance. 11/13. Saturday. Alumni Senior Club. 10O0PM-01 OOAM. 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT-
Saferide. 631-9888. 11 /11. Thursday. Where the Action Is. 1 000PM-0200AM. 11/12. Friday. Where the Action Is. 1 000PM-0300AM. 11/13. Saturday. Where the Action Is. 1 000PM-0300AM. 
Ml!iCELLANEDU!i/CAMPU!i-WIDE 
ND Vs. Pitt. 11/13. Saturday. Away. 
Tickets: $2. 
Tickets: $2 at the door. 

Tickets: $10 ND/HC/SMC $12 Public on sale now at LaFun Ticket Desk. 
,. 
. 
" 


;oooeeooeeeeeoeeoeeee · , 
Thursday, November 11, 1999
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS 
'-· 
against Ron Dayne's credentials either this year or for his 
Chorney 

career. Even more impressive, the Heisman race. His lack of candidacy will be another example of a Heisman slight and a cheapening of the award. 
Awards should be given for merit and for nothing else. Single season awards should be given for solely that season, not a career. We have a Hall of Fame for lifetime achievement are curiously similar to market­ing a product. Web pages spring up; Signs are given out; Game plans change just to get a player exposure. If a candidate doesn't get this support or the endorsement of the talking heads, he stands little chance. 

For whatever reason, Jones hasn't been ablP to enter into 

YOU'RE INVITED VETERANS' DAY JOINT MILITARY RETREAT CEREMONY 
Thursday, November 11 
(ND's Army, Navy, & Air Force ROTC units pay tribute to America's military veterans) 
Starts 5:00 pm at Clarke Memorial Stonehenge (weather permitting) or 101 DeBartolo (inclement weather site) 
Fr. Hesburgh is the guest speaker Flyover conducted by Toledo Air National Guard 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 

WHYSELLYOURUSEDTEXTBOOKSBACKTOTHEBOOKSTOREFOR LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE 
NEWS. , 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS . TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER. COM 

PUSfflODSTBR.COffl 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 
awards. I feel it is my duty to correct the aforementioned grievous wrongs and declare the rightful candidacy of Thomas Jones for the lleisman. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
continued from page 32 
most deserving on his team. His replacement at first base, Lee Stevens, and the other regular first basemnn put up defensive numbers better than Palmeiro's. 
This mistake unfortunately happens repeatedly. Athletes are given awards that they don't deserve. As much as it hurts a loval Jazz fan to admit, both of Karl Malone's MVPs are questionable. 
His first award was given while Michal'l Jordan still ruled the hanlcourt. Can anyone real­istically claim that Jordan didn't deserve the award EVERY year he played the game'' Hnt because Malone's numbers were higher than nor­mal and Jordan's numbers were lower than normal. Malone walked away with the trophy, Certainly Jordan shouldn"t be punished for rack­ing up astronomical statistics in previous years. 
Malone's second award came 
after Jordan retired. With MJ 
out of the picture, he logically 
assumed the role of MVP fron­
trunner. While Tim Duncan had 
the statistir.s to win the award, 
Malone had paid his dues and 
consequently won. 
Most years, the worst case of 
injustice in postseason awards 
comes in the form of the 
Heisman trophy. This year is no 
different. No one can argue Dayne's numbers would proba­bly be even more astounding if he played the entire game every game. 

But mauy believe that if he breaks Ricky Williams's record, he's assured victory. Why should that matter? The Heisman is giVfm to the most outstanding player _of THAT 
year. 

And then, thern's Thomas Jones. Despite leading the nation in rushing, (yes, he's run for more yards than Ron Dayne) he"s not even mentioned. 
Jones suffers from two of the 
problems associated with the 
Heisman. 

First, he's on a team that, 
despite its win over Georgia 
Tech, is not very good. It's not 
Jones's fault that Virginia 
hasn't surrounded him with 
players capable of winning. Yet 
he is the one hurt most by the 
ineptitude. 

Jones is hurt further bv the 
fact that the Heisman trophy 
campaign is just that, a cam­
paign. The talking heads on 
television repeat the phrase, 
"He's entered the I-leisman 
race," and "He's a I-leisman 
candidate," week after week. 
Single-handedly, the press 
deems who is worthy of con­
tention and who is i{ot. H's 
almost as if a player must 
declare candidacy and then 
impress the talking heads. 
Universities have begun to 
mount Heisman campaigns that 
Student & Fae/Staff/Family Tennis Clinic 
Monday, November 15 6:00-7: 75pm Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Stroke Analysis & Playing Situations 

Presented by : Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis Teams Free ofcharge • Open to all Dependants 23 years ofage andyounger No advance registration necessary • Bringyour own Racquet Tennis Shoes Required • No Running Shoes Allowed 


For more information, please call the RecSports Office at 1-6100 
INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Moral issues surrounding technolouv assessment. bioethics, human genetics. environmental management, computerizaUon, and architectural design confront us evervdav. 
To exulore these problems in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame STV Program. This is aminor requiring 15 hours ol course credits lhat can be taken by students in anv college. Within lhe STV Program vou mav develop con­centrations in specific tracks emphasiZino srv interac­Uons with Business; Environmental Studies; Pre-profes­sional Studies: Philosophy and Theolouv: Computerization and Phvsical Sciences; and Government and Public Policv. 
Course offerings tor Spring 2000 mav be reviewed bV infor­mauon obtained at 346 O'Shauohnessv, or visit our website 81 hnu://www.nd.edu/-stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal appointment. 
Thursday, November 11, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McGraw helps Irish sign two top-40 players for 2004 
Special 10 The Observer 
The Irish inked two of' the lop high school players in the nation !'or nnxl s1mson to help tlrnm continlll' tlrnir winning 
ways. 
J1\1wka Joye,~. a 5-1) shooting guard from Jopeka. Kan. and l.e"Ta11ia S1w11rn, a 5-9 point guard from Fl. Lauderdale, Fla.. havn sign1\d national let­tf'rs of intnnt to attnnd Notrn Dame bnginning in the fall of 2000 . .loycn is rnwd 26th by Bltw Star Basketball, while S!\vm·e is liskd 40th among the top SO prnp players. 
"We am nxtn•mt)ly plnascrl with our rncruilin~ class," S4.YS I :Hh-year hnad cmwh Mtfter McCraw. "Both players are ranked in lhn top 40 by Blue Star lndnx and this is th11 first time iu my careHr at NotrH Dame that WP have been able to sign two high-caliber play­nrs ranked in the top 40. Jmwka and l.n'Tania will be a grPnl compfinH'nt to this team. We f'ill1\d a lot or our noeds, and tlw acldilion of these two 
players gives us considerable quickness, speed and strong outside shooting. They arc both great people who will add a lot !o our program and this team. 
.Joyce, a sixth-team presea­son All-America choice by Strnet & Smith's. averaged 
22.0 points last year as she lerl her Washburn Hural High School team to a 23-2 record and the 1999 Class 6A statn championship. A three-year startP-r, she has helped Washburn capture two confer­ence championships and com­pile a 64-8 rer.ord since 1996. 
A two-time first-team all­state solection, Joyce was a USA Today honorable mention AII-Anrnrica choice following her junior season and was the Topeka dty player of the year. 
Joyce was invited to attend the Heebok/WBCA Premier and Nike camps this summer. In addition, she has played for the Missouri Valley AAU All~Stars for seven years. 
"Jeneka is a complete player because she does so many things," McGraw says. "She shoots thn ball well from the outside, is a strong rebounder and has excellent ball-handling skills. Jcneka is a great passer with excellent court vision. I am very excited about her, but what impresses me most about her is the poise she displays on the court under pressure. Joneka is a real team player and will contl"i!Jute immediate­ly." 
Severe, who will play her final year at Ft. Lauderdale High School during the 1999­2000 campaign after attending Flannigan her first three sea­sons. 
As a junior, she averaged 
19.0 points, 8.5 rnbounds and 
4.0 assists and helped her team finish with a 15-8 record. She also earned preseason honorable mention All-America honors by Street & Smith's. 
"Lc'Ta.nia has tremendous speed and quickness anrl is an exceptional athlete," McGraw says. "Like Jcneka, she is a team•oriented player who will lead the break and help our 
,----------------------------------­

GOT A WORD FOR OUR TASTY NEW (HICKEN CLUB SANDWICH' (RAVEABLE. 
(.IT'S NOT · A REAL WORD, BUT WE LIKE I TI ) 

THE TASTY (HICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
Ono bile of the delicious Chicken Club, am1 you'll always crave the flavor of its att-wh11e-meat chicken lopped with crispy b11con. fresh letture and tomato and mayonnaise. And that's no problem, because now IhIs ultra-satisfying sandwicl1 iS here to stay at BURGER KING~ So come on m and indulge your craving 
The Huddle• laFortune Student Center 
PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 


11 JUST TASTES BFTTER~ 
www burgerk1ng com 
transition game; she fits in well are something that we are with our running style. going to need with the loss of Lc'Tania is an outstanding guard Danielle Green at the defender. Her defensive skills end of this season.'' 

This year, coach Muffet McGraw recruited two top-40 players, Jeneka Joyce and Le'Tania Severe, for the first time In her 13­year career. 

63•tudont1 

&6i>~nion program ineludiu 
~ t'l'!l/i>MC piano lrio11
~f06'!'l by t1aydn. ~ortin
ovoilobl~ ot tho 
end 'flvorak 
l.6f'or1uno llox Ofpco or oh•rS• b~ phon~ 
(219) 631-8128. 

i'\orlo .lil&bl10n, plono: Coralyn Plumm!Zr, violin; 1k Ko~ 1lur11n1k01. •~llo 
2 pm, ~undey, Nov~mb{Zr 14, 1999 '(lnnrznbrzrg '(luditorium, ~niti Mu$ium of '(lrt 
for moro lnformallon, pl"'1•• .,.11 (219) 631-6201, f!fflftil mualo@nd.i,du,or vl1il Ollr w!lb •II• ol """"1.nd.i,dut--mu1le. 
• 
(. 

page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 11, 1999 
FOOTBALL 

Chance of bowl appearance depends on two Irish wins 
The top two teams in the BCS eligible, it needs to finish the By KERRY SMITH rankings receive an automatic season with six wins. The Big Assistant Spotts Editor bid to the Sugar Bowl, the game East. assuming Notre Dame 
which will decide this year's becomes bowl eligible, could With the NCM football season national champion have four eligible teams and only Other bowls then invite three spots open. 
going full throttle into the month remaining teams to their respec­Virginia Tech, a football pow­of November, teams are racking tive bowls, in a previously deter­erhouse undefeated so far thisup wins and losses while keeping mined order, and acrording to season, is setting its sights onan eye on the post-season. 

individual agreements made playing in the championshipAs each football program 
between bowls and conferences. game, despite its current l3CSbegins to size up its chances for 
The Big East is specifically ranking of third. Virginia Techbowl invitations, only one thing associated \.\ith the Toyota Gator and Miami face off this weekend is for certain -there's a lot of Bowl, the Insight.com Bowl and and the winner will most likelyfootball left to be played. 
Bowls will have their pick of the Music City Bowl. become the Big East champion, But add the Big East's agree­earning an automatic bid to the
qualified teams this year as 

ment with Notre Dame into the BCS.
many teams have posted strong records to date despite formida­

mix, and things start to get com­If Miami, at 5-3, loses to plicated. The agreement allows Virginia Tech., it still only needsble schedules. 
for any one of the three bowls to one more win to become bowl
As the Bowl Championship 

choose Notre Dame over a Big eligible. That win could easilySeries currently operates, con­
• fernnces from around the nation East team if the Irish are bowl­come from any of Miami's 
-the Big East, Atlantic Coast, eligible and do not qualify for the remaining opponents, making Big Ten, llig 12, Pacific-10 and BCS. Miami eligible for the Gator· 
In determining which teams to Bowl.
Southeastern -along with 

Notre Dame as an independent, invite to which bowls, all three Boston College, a team which means that one six-win team in them unable to earn the neces­have joined with the sponsors of Big East-affiliated bowls must is already bowl-eligible, could the Big East could get Iert out. sary wins to remain bowl eligi­abide by tho conference's one­snag the third spot in the Big The Irish, with a 5-4 record, bk.
the four major bowl games ­the Tostitos Fiesta, FedEx 

win rule, meaning that whether East with a win over Notre Dame need to win two of their final Notre Dame must overcome Its Orange, Nokia Sugar and Rose they select a Big East team or next weekend and become eligi­three games to reach the 7-4 five away-game losing streak by Notre Dame, thP, selected team blP for the Insight.com bowl. mark that would make them eli­beating either Pittsburgh or
bowls -in order to produce an 

NCAA college football national has to be within one win of all Syracuse, with a 6-3 record, is gible for the post-season. The Stanford on the road to evPn champion and a slate of runners­eligible teams. also already bowl eligible and Eddie Robinson Classic, which have a chance at the seven-win The Gator Bowl must select could be looking at the fourth produced a 48-13 Irish win over mark.
up. 

When the champion in each either the second-place Big East spot in the Big East and the Kansas at the beginning of the The entire 1999 college f"oot­team or Notre Dame, the Music City Bowl. season, does not count towards ball season and post-season
participating conference is deter­mined, the four bowls will have a Insight.com Bowl has dibs on Pittsburgh, which faces Notre '.'Jotre Dame's number of wins rests on the final three weeks of choice from those teams as well either the third-ranked Big East Dame this weekend, is currently_ for bowl eligibility. · NCAA action. Notre Dame is 
team or Notre Dame, and the at 4-5 with the potential of If the Irish can produce those playing not only for a chance of
as any independent program or team finishing among the top six Music City Bowl has the option of becoming bowl-eligible as well two wins, they will most likely be being selected for a bowl game, spots in the BCS rankings that selecting either the Big East's bv the end of the season. snatched up by one of the bowls but must go up against two of fourth-place finisher or Notre ·with very few at-large bids -probably the Insight.mm or the teams it could potentially be
does not have an automatic 

selection agreement. The BCS Dame. available and even fewer of Music City bowl. knocking out of the post-season can also choose from any team Such is the problem, or poten­those likely to be awarded to Big In another scenario, however, on its quest for a bowl invitation 
,.; that has tallied nine victories and tial problem, in the Big East East teams, the presence of Pittsburgh and Boston College -making the competition dur­is in the top 12 in the BCS poll to Conference this year. Notre Dame, which is just on the could seal Notre Dame's fate by ing the month of November even fill its bowl positions. In order for a team to be bowl cusp of becoming bowl-eligible, defeating the Irish and rendering more intense. 
Dear children! Today, I call you to accept and live my messages with seriousness. T1zese days are the days when you need to decide for God... 112s;93 
Medjugorje and the Year 2000 

Our Lady of Medjugorje 
'f,"' 
it 

... 

THE MESSAGES: Our Lady comes 
to recall the world to the Gospel 
message of prayer, peace, and con­

_) 
version. Each month she gives a message for the world: 
*Dear children! I do not want your hearts to wander in today's darkness. I will help you. As a mother, I ask you to permit me to do this. 3/18/99 
*Dear children! If only you knew the greatness ofthe graces God was giving you, you would pray without ceasing. 11/8/84 

SISTER EMMANUEL 
will be coming from 
MEDJUGORJE 
for a Day of Reflection 
sponsored by Notre Dame's Children ofMary 
Saturday, November 13, 1999 
All students welcome! 
MEDJUGORJE: A small village in Bosnia-Hercegovina where the Blessed Virgin has been appearing daily since July 1981 to six young Croatians. Medjugorje is protected by the Catholic Church as a sanctuary of prayer and worship. Each year millions con­tinue to travel on pilgrimage to this place where Our Lady has "come to call the world to conversion for the last time." 
DATE: November 13, 1999 TIME: 8:30am-6pm 
LOCATION: Mount Alvemo, 1515 Dragoon Tr, Mishawaka 
(right across the street from Marian High School) 
** The retreat is free. Transportation and lunch will be pro­vided. Rides will be leaving from Main Circle at 7:45am. If you have any questions, or if you need to arrange to come late, please contact Derek 4x4970 or Laura 4x2378. 
Sister Emmanuel will also be giving an evening reflection at Sacred Heart Parish Center on Thursday, November 18, 1999, 7:30-9:00pm. All are invited! 
Sister Emmanuel and her ministryblessed by Pope John Paul II 

SISTER EMMANUEL: Sr. Emmanuel is a member of the Beatitudes Commu­nity in Medjugorje. Originally from France, her books, tapes, videos, ra­dio shows, and television programs have been translated into numerous languages, and have helped Our Lady win countless souls across the globe. Some of the countries touched by Sister's ministry: the United States, Aruba, Poland Croatia, Canada, France, India, Japan, England, Haiti, Austria, Australia, Haiti, Mexico, Hungary, etc. 
HOROSCOPE  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS  
DAY:  Demi  Moore,  Leonardo  
DiCaprio, Jonathan Winters, Daniel Ortega  
Happy Birthday: _You'll have to  
keep a close eye on your goals, or  
you may find yourself falling short  
of them. Along the way, don't let oth­ 
ers distract you, trying to get you to  
help them pursue their goals instead  
of your own. You need to put time  
aside for yourself if you want to be successful this year. Your numbers: 6,  
14, 18, 22, 31, 47  
ARIES (March 21-April 19):  
You'll do your best work at home  
where you can avoid interruptions.  
Your health may suffer if you have  
been burning the candle at both  
ends. Don't put limitations on your­ 
self or others. 00000  
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take  
an interest in the groups that the lit­ 
tle ones inyour family join. You need  
to spend more time interacting with  
others. You will learn through the  
connections you make. 000  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Prob­lems with roommates can be expect­ 
ed. Don't get taken for granted. Real estate investments will be profitable.  
Puzzle by Matt Gaffney 27 Ciudad de los Reyes  46 Small boats 48 Made use of  54 Concerning 55 Wax attacker  You can buy products for your home, but don't go over your budget. 000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be taken advantage of by  
28 Notice 29 Eat like 30 lady of Spain 31 Battle of Bull Run general 33 Turner in history 36 Odometer readings 38 Start of two Henry Miller  51 Dinar earner 56 Infamous Colombian city 52 Cough remedy: Var. 57 Queensland neighbor: Abbr. 53 Challenges for rats 60Alley_ Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute).  friends or relatives. Don't be too eager to lend money or your posses­sions to others. It's time you did something special for yourself ­maybe a day at the spa. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make some money if you push your ideas to those in a position to back you financially. You will have to watch out for minor health problems that are directly related  

Thursday, November il, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 31 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
I vi,H not Throw {>Qpcr I a,rplqne<:, 1n tl<W, t l Will not throw pqv,r ' 
CliYplqnes in C:IQSS, 
I will not booby-trcip 

I will not p1.1t spiqers 
!Wt-1AT0 5 TI-l!S SHooT. r the li<:11\ wQfer ft>llnlqin 
ii'\ tne girts' bqthroom. 
j ABoUT KNEW 11-iERE I will not booby-trctp . 
I will not p1.1t Spiqers 
~ SP1DERS? WAS ONE 
in the •:f1,IS' l,qthroom. 
l . n, GoTTENtlie hqtl wqt~r f01.1ntqio. 
-r~ ,. AWA.Y 
WfTl-l. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Descriptive wd. 58 Party animal? t Chairs 32 Holmes friend 59 Noted "toycoon" Adler
6 Stump 61 Saturn revolver 34 Number of
9 Cuff 62 Course
mousquetaires

13 Nahuatl speaker 63 Chef's hat 
35 Field work 

14 One of the 64 Picks one
37 DemandHindu trinity 65 Nurse39 Fool15 Daughter of 66 Barbershop40 "You'reHera and Zeus 

sounds 16 Trilogy writer 
trouble!'-' ­
42 It'll take you 18 Goes back out 

back DOWN 19 Bettors bet on it 44 i=or instance 1 Pilgrim's title 20 Wavelength 
45 Without 2 College founder symbols 

anesthesia, as Cornell et al.. 22 Second-longest" surgery 
3 Places in the Bible book 47 It may be 
heart 23" et mon 
imperative 
4 Particular droit" (motto of 49 Certain race, 5 Hanks's "Bosom the British informally Buddies" co-star royalty) 50 Stickler's creed 6 Clock numeral 

24 Scientologist 54 Water-related Hubbard 
7 Stunt-doer57 Its capital is Knievel

26 Not set in stone Abuja 8 Citizen Kane's estate ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Cubs' 

supporters? 1 O Co-founder of the N.A.A.C.P. 
11 "Fernando" singers 12 Hardy soul? 14 Polish name ending 
17 Site of Pakistan's Shalimar gardens 
21 Pitcher's target 

Z  I  P U P  ---.--+---1 25 Link  
E V  E N T  O M  --+--1---1---1  26 Vade  
D E S K S  R  1 G  S S  (handbook)  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

H y 
Friday and Saturday vs. Alaska Fairbanks 7:00pm
RoB 

First 100 students getfree pizza! ~ ~ Win a FREE Playstation at\S®v0 Friday's game courtesy of K.B'Toys, 
Birthday Baby: You'll make your loved ones proud. Your dedication, loy­
titles 

Annual subscriptions are available for the 
alty and courage will help you to follow your dreams. You are not one to give
41 Chap best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
up or get down about anything. Instead, you set your sights on what you
43 Ciphers years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 

BILL AMEND 
TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

W .: BIG DtoNuT WIIERI?: N, P­Aitf'? 1 '16U e,ETCHA 
WK.frr"? : F EC f;5 .SfAtt.Je. 11'-\A.&i:; OF \/ll<GINwMfREf, ~ooKLYN ~T?-. 1-lYC. c.ou~Ts 
' ;,A'{ YES. 

~1!: f'dT..,_TO ­fOp.l<.-g.....iA.1-JA-PEA -1-'\0tJS"TE= 1Z--, .,...£lit.I'? : 5 PH 
~it?: ACCD~t,tNG To Tt\E: MON \'TO~S, APPAF.E-N1L'( "16[ 
beam.1@nd.edu 

Men's Basketball Thurs. vs. Marathon 7:30pm Joyce Center 
~women's Soccer ~ NCAA 2nd Round 
Sunday v. Evansville/Dayton 1:00pm Alumni Field First 200 Students Freel 
want and relentlessly pursue your desires. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialasLcom, astromate.com.) C 1999 UniV<!r.lill Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
to stress. 00000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't 
with family memben who fdn~p with the workload. Tue care of the things that matter to you and leave their jobs undone. 00 
LIBRA (SepL 23-0cL 221: Don't depend on in-laws to stay out of your business. Be prepared to coun­teract whatever they do to upset your household. Don't overreact, but hit them with the truth and the facts. 
0000 

SCORPIO (OcL ~Nov. n): You should ask for help if you need iL It's time to promote your ideas and find individuals who can make your dreams come true. Don't hesitate to say what's on your mind. You will tum heads. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Emotional matters will not be easy for you to handle. You don't like confrontations at the best of times, but you may find them difficult to avoid this time. Observe and ~n. 
000 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Luxury items will cost way too much. Don't Ji>ick up the tab to impress others if you go out on the town. Your changes of attitude will upset some of the people who love 
you.000 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Joint financial ventures will only result in confrontations and loss. You must be careful not to let your stress level get out of hand. Lowered vitali­ty will slow you down. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Don't let your partner take advan­tage of you emotionally. You need to join forces with someone who under­stands you better. It's time to pro­mote your creative work. 00 
•­
I 
. l 
j
-
-
!. 

Two more times 
With a current 5-4 record, the Irish need two more wins to be eligible for post-season play in a bowl game. 

PORTS 
page 28 


OTHE 

page 32 BSERVER 
MEN 's BASKETBALL 

Sophomores become heart of Irish team 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN A.ssisranr Sports Editor 
The Class of 2002 came to Notre Dame touted as one of the top recruiting classes in thf' Big East, but unproven as Division I college players. One year later, sopho­

.. mores Troy Murphy, David Graves and Harold Swanagan have put thPir talent into play and are three nf the go-to play­ers for the Irish basketball team. 
Murphy and Graves wPre the top two scorers for the Irish as freshmen, with Swanagan playing a significant role off the bench. Murphy also led Notre Dame in rebounding. and was recognized as Big East player of the week several times dur­ing his rookie season. 
"Boy, Trny's one of the best players in the country," first-year head coach Matt Doherty said. "He needs to do a lot of things for us -shoot the ball, rebound and maybe even pass the ball. 
"Harold's presence is mainlv inside as a low-post scorer and rebounder," added Doherty. "David's job is mainly outside in his abilitv to shoot the ball." 
The trfo of sophomores began their role as impact players for the Irish early on, especially as the Irish struggled to adjust to the graduation of All-American Pat Garrity. 
"We played a lot of minutes last year, and I think that helped us out tremen­dously," Graves said. "It gave us a lot of exposure and a lot of experience how to play Division I basketball. I consider myself a leader on the team because of the amount of time I played last year." 
Murphy, a 6-9 forward out of New Jersey, averaged more than 19 points per game last year to lead the Irish. He also pulled down nearly 10 rebounds per game while playing 33 minutes per contest. 
Murphy was named to the Preseason All-Big East First Team as well as several national preseason publications, but dis­counts such preseason recognition. 
"You have to go out on the court and prove it," Murphy said. "You just have to let your actions on the court speak." 
As classmates, Murphy, Graves and Swanagan highlight the closeness of the Irish players. 

-
"Dave, Harold and I are real close," Murphy said. "We do everything together. Dave, Harold and l share a special bond." 
Swanagan and Graves were familiar with one another prior to arriving at Notre Dame. Both natives of Kentucky, they played together on all-star teams in high school and were both named first team all-state. They also carried that camaraderie with them to Indiana. 

... "They're my best friends on the team," Swanagan said of Graves and Murphy. "Dave is my best friend, being from Kentucky." . Graves is a 6-5 small forward whose shooting touch sets him off from other 
Sophomore Troy Murphy, seen here shooting in the first exhibition game against
players. As a freshman, he played in every 

the International Select All-Stars, was named to the Preseason All-Big East First
game, averaging 12.3 points per game as he started all but two contests. Team. Last year, he averaged more than 19 points per game. 
"My role as a basketball player is to 

"My role i.s as a hustler, a rebounder the ar.hieovement of that goal will be the~ score points," Graves said. 
and a banger," Swanagan said. transition from John MacLeod to DohertySwanagan also played in every game in The sophomore class, along with the as Irish head coach.
the 1998-99 campaign, using his physical rest of the squad, are seeking to improve "l feel like I transferred," Murphy said.

prowess to dominate on defense and snag on a 14-16 record last season. Assisting in rebounds for the Irish. 

see B-BALL/page 26 


Thursday, November 11, 1999 
Honors 

not based 
on past 

Too many times. individual yearly awards in sports arc given for the wrong masons. They an' given for career achieve­ments, success of the sur­rounding team or b,isecl on the ath­
lete's suc­cess that year in relation to the rest of' 
a career. 
On Tuesday, the Amerirnn Leagun announced the recipients of' this year's Gold Glovn awards, given to the best defensive player at a position. Among the winners were the usual names: Griffey, Alomar and Rafael Palmeiro?? 
Palmeiro had a fantastic sea­son and deserves considera­tion for MVP. His offensive numbers as a designated hitter ranked among the league's best. His clubhouse presence was vital to the Rangers divi­sional first-place finish. But neither clubhouse presence. nor offensive numbers deserves a Gold Glove. 
Palmeiro is an astute defen­sive player as well. He's won a Gold Glove the past two years at first base, establishing a reputation for himself as one of baseball's best fielding first basemen. But neither past per­formance nor reputation should guarantee a Gold Glove. 
Palmeiro impressively made only one error this year at his position. Impressive. that is, until you take into account that Palmeiro was hurt most of the year and only played 28 of the 162 games at first base. Twenty-eight games! Seventeen percent of the regu­lar season games the Rangers played this year! 
Obviously baseball managers and coaches didn't have nor spenrl the time to actually investigate their choices. (Makes you wonder how all of the coaches voting for the col­lege football polls have the time to watch four times as many teams before ranking them.) 
Palrneiro didn't believn he dfJserved the award. In fact, he believed he wasn't evm1 the 
see CHURNEY/page 30 


.!. 
vs. Marathon, vs. Alaska Fairbanks, Volleyball Today, 7:30 p.m. ~ Friday, 7:05 p.m. at Villanova, 
SPORTS ftJ Saint Mary's Swimming 
Saturday, 1 p.m. 

vs. Albion,ATA Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. 
• 

Swimming Cross Country at Pittsburgh,
(I

vs. Pittsburgh, at NCAA District IV, Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Friday, 6 p.rn. Saturday, 10:30 a.m.
GLANCE • • 







