


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
LONE RUNNER 

Julius Jones (above} received little help from his teammates in Saturday's 27-21 loss to Michigan States. Jones rushed for 126 yards while his teammates totaled only 26 yards. See the Irish Insider for additional details of Saturday's game against the Spartans. 
STUDENT SENATE 
Senate calls emergency meeting 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Although page 136 of the tele­phone directory lists Brian Clemency's address as 262 Zahm Hall, he came before the Student Senate Sunday night to appeal the Judicial Council's decision that disqualified him from run­ning for off-r.ampus senator. • 
The senate unanimously turned down Clemency's appeal. 
"The constitution states that a senator must reside in the con­stituency that he or she repre­sents, but does not say that he or she must only reside in this con­stituency," said Clemency, who said he also lives at his uncle's house in Granger, Ind. 
"It does not prohibit an individ­ual from residing in two places. Nor does it say that some one who lives on campus is not eligi­ble to run from off-campus," he said. 
Despite Clemency's argument. Judicial Council president Tony Wagner and vice president John Banters concluded that because Clemency had his mail sent to Zahm and slept most nights on campus. he could not run to rep­resent the off-campus popula­tion. 
see SENATE/page 4 

VOLXXXIV NO. 25 
Freshmen elect reps to class council 
ByJASON McFARLEY Assisc.1111 News Edirnr 
The Class of 2004 made its ini­tial venture into Notre Dame stu­dent government last week, hold­ing-elections for freshman r.lass representatives in each or lhe Univfirsitv's 27 residenc~'. balls. 
AlthcHigh the process is not over for the dozen or so student.'> who will square off in run-off (!lections today. the contests proved a worthwhile experienr.c for the r.ouncil members whose positions are derided. 
"I enjoy student government and thought it would be a good ·way to nmrt p<mple in my dorm," said Tai Homero. thP Walsh Hall winner. Homero. or Baton Rouge, La.. said she has aspirations of advancing in student government and thought thP freshman class council might provide a solid start. 
For Matt Heibel. his election as freshman representative from Keenan Hall came as both a sur­prise and an honor. 
"I really didn't participate in studP.nt government in high school, but since I want to be a government major. I thought I should get involved in somr--kind of government.'' said Heibel, 17. of San Diego. 
"It's certainly an honor being elected by your peers," he added. 
Badin Hall representative Keri Oxley. 19. said she intends to use her position on the r.ounr.il to "meet r,ampus leaders and make a positive dilTerence in the fresh­man dass." 
Oxlev. a native of Frnemont, Ohio. si'iid she is excited about the 
see COUNCIL/page 4 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

GALA holds first local reunion 
By TIM LOGAN Senior Srnff Writer 
Over the last six years. there has been a lot of talk about gays at Notre Dame. 
But in all that time, the group which some consider the leader in the fight to extend gay rights on Notre Dame's campus has not.gathered here. That changed this weekend, when the Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame and Saint Marv's (GALA-ND/SMC) held its first ever national meeting in South Bend. 
GALA, whkh is not affiliated with either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, had not r,ome together at the plar.e which binds all its members since the summer of 1994. when the group began. Past meetings have taken place in Chicago, New York and San Francisco, but meeting at Notre Dame was different. 
"People have mixed feel­ings," said John Blandford. chair of' GALA. "They still have very strong ties, but they have mixed feelings about those ties." 
For some gay alumni. this was the first return to a cam­pus where they felt ostracized as undergraduates. 
"It was a spooky experi­enr,e," said Tom O'Neil, who has not been to Notre Dame since the late '70s. "It's like the prodigal son comes home, except that I had to forgive the school." 
Blandford said that meeting at Notre Dame was a good thing for the group to do, and it helped some old wounds to heal. 
"It was sort of a cathartir. experience to r,ome back and feel a part of the University again," he said. 
Turnout was good, ar,cording 

to Blandford. who said that 50 
people registered for the entire 
weekend of events. One hun­
dred and two showed up for 
the Saturday night banquet. 
Saturday morning, there was 
a panel discussion about anti­
gay bias at Notre Dame and 
across. the nation. The Gender 
Studies department sponsored 
the talk, which featured alum­
ni. current students and talk 
show pioneer Phil Donahue, a 
1957 alumnus who has been 
supportive of GALA for years. 
"The thought was to evaluate 
progress at Notre Dame. as 
relative to the progress nation­
wide," Blandford said. He said 
that there has been improve­
ment in treatment of homosex­-ual students. "The general cli­
mate is much better among the 
students than it was in the 
past." 
That night. at the banquet, 
GALA presented Donahue with 
its Tom Dooley Award. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, September 25, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

All in the family 
Last week, alumnus Jim Arkedis wrote a letter to lhe editor of The Observer criticizing the paper for what he sees as flaunting its independenl status. In his letter, published on Friday, ArkPdis complained, "Hecent articles harshly criticize the administration and are not relevant to the majori­ty of the campus." Arkedis was, of course, speaking "primarily of the 'gay rights"' issue, as he put it !If' said The Observer overstepped its bounds as an independent· paper because lhese arti­cles address an issue that affects only a small part of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
Arkedis told his read­ers lo "do the math." 

However, he failed to point out that The Observer covers many issues that affect only part of the Notre Dame family. 
[<'or example, the same day that Arkedis' letter ran. there was a news story on the accounling department. Most Notre Dame students are not accounting majors, but those who arc accounting majors are part of the Notre Dame community and deserve coverage in the paper. 
The Observer has also done stories on stu­dents who participate in ACE or ROTC. There was a feature story on the first female mem­ber of the Irish Guard. Most Notre Dame stu­dents are unaffected by ACE. R01'C and the Irish Guard. But students in each group are part of the larger Notre Dame community. and therefore, their stories are relevant to the entire community. 
Similarly, gay students and student jour­nalists are two other groups which are part of the Notre Dame community. As a paper serv­ing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, The Observer should write articles on issues involving and affecting different students at the two schools. 
Instead. we at The Observer should attempt to rel1ect the entire community. We must cover as much news as we can. A single article could never encompass all of, or even a majority of. the student body. Many articles are needed to reflect the many diverse inter­ests on our campus. 
In othnr words, as much as possible, we must cover all news that affects students, even if it's just a few students. 
But it's not up to The Observer staff to determine what you care about and write articles only on issues that EVERY student r.ares about. 
Our job is to report the news objectively so that, hopefully, members of the community are informed about issues affecting them and others surrounding them. 
The Piews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and nut necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Finn Pressly Jackie Browder Nate Phillips Graphics 
Tim l ogan 

Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production Noali AmstaJtcr 
Andrew .Soukup 
l.anren Conri 

Karie DcMenr 
Viewpoint 

Lab Tech Laurl'n Heck 
Lisa Vdtt 
rltr Obsavcr (tiSl'S ,,19 2-4000) is p11blishcd Mond,ty rhmu~h l'rtday rxcrp1 durJ11µ. exam ,111d v.1c,11inn r~riods. Th~ Ohserv~r i~ a m~mhc-r ofrhc Assoc1;Hcd Prc5s..A..11 rr-prm.h1ction rights .ire rc.-.ervt'd. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Exhibit: "Ramiro  . Lecture: "Ethics in  
Rodriguez Exhibition". all  Advertising; The  
day, 230 McKenna Hall.  Perspective of the  
. Workshop: ''Summer  Church". 7 p.m.. Jordan  
Internship Workshop, 12  Auditorium.  
p.m.. 131 Decio.  . Dance: Swing Lessons,  
. Movie: "Conversation",  8;30 p.m .• 301 Rockne,  
7p.m.. Snite Mueseum.  $4/lesson, $30/semester  

Wednesday 
. 
Job fair: "Post Graduate Service Fair", 6 p.m. to 9 p.m., Stepan Center. 

. 
Meeting:' "Interfaith Christian Night Prayer", 10 p.m. to 1 l p.m., Morrissey Chapel. 


Thursday 

. 
Lecture: "Science as Art and Imagery". 4 p.m .• Snite Museum of Art. 

. 
Event: "Acoustic Cafe", 9 p.m.. LaFortune. 


. 
Movie: "The Godfather". 10;30 p.m., Snite Museum of Art. 


Compiled Imm U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Universities snub Napster ban request 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

In a broad rebuke to attorneys representing the artists Metallica and Dr. Dre, four prominent uni­versities rejected the request to ban Napstcr access on their campuses. 
The Boston Globe reported Thursday that Harvard University is expected to respond similarly next week. 
MIT, Stanford llniversitv, Duke University and the Unive.rsity of North Carolina all declined to restrict access to the music-sharing service in letters sent to Howard King, the attorney representing Dr. Dre and Metallica. 
The four universities were the first to respond to the attorney's request for a Napster ban on col­lege campuses. 
"Stanford offers its faculty, students and staff connec­tions for digital online com­munications, online services and network access." 
William Abrams Stanford attorney 

ln similarly argued letters, the universities claimed that as Internet service providers (ISP), their networks acted simply as con­duits of information, and they had no legal responsibility for the mis­use of their systems. 
"Stanford has no involvement in the alleged infringement described in your letter," wrote William Abrams, an attorney representing Stanford. "Stanford offers its facul­ty, studPnts and staff connections for digital online communications, online services and network access." 
Furthermore, the Universities argued that blocking access to Napster was inconsistent with their commitment to the freedom of information. 
Letters from officials at both Stanford and MIT said they did not approve of copyright infringement, and would refuse to ban Napster. 
The recent controversy concern­ing Napster has been a major issue on campuses around the nation. 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
Study shows sex may extend life 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
New research suggests that sex may actually keep your heart healthy, increase your immunity to dis­ease and might even make you physically stronger. Scientists recently studied 51 men between the ages of 20 and 47. Of that group, the men who had sex 16 or more times per month had stronger hearts and lower average blood pressure than guys of the same fitness level and age group who had sex eight times or fewer per month. Sexual intercourse, including foreplay, can burn up to 180 calories an hour. Their theory: By giving guys a way to manage day-to-day difficulties and reducing stress, it also helped them stay in better shape by providing them with one more source of aerobic activity -namely sex. "I don't know where I would be without sex," said Todd Mytkowicz. a senior computer science major at Syracuse University. "I definitely feel that it's made improvements in many parts of my life." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day Soutti Bend FOl:ll!CBEt: /\ca.WHthar !are::ast far ~a:n:J:i.ti01S am hig-i taiperat:ures 
H L Tuesday ~ 65 46 Wednesday ~60 36 
Thursday  ~  55  40  
Friday  ~63  46  
Saturday  ~  62  43  

Q,Q,Q_4.~Q tJ o u 
Showers T-storms Ram Ftu"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Ctoudy Cloudy Vl.1t A~soc,aff.tCI Pr~s GraphicsNel 
TEXAS A&M 
Bonfire leaders cope with loss 
. COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
The first round of tests for the fall semester has come, but some Texas A&M University students must pass a test in a subject far more difficult than calcu­lus or accounting. This time last year, the leaders of the Aggie Bonfire were busy preparing cut sites. giv­ing safety training courses and otherwise preparing for the two-month-long process of constructing the largest bonfire in America. There is a disturbing void where students once sat sharpening axes and paint­ing pots. And. when the time comes for blazing music to arouse the slumbering members of the Fowler. Hughes and Keathley Complex (FHKJ. there will be an awkward silence. "Sometimes I wake up and think that everything is still the same. that nothing ever happened," said Gran Potter, a crew chief' and sophomore business major. "But then something, a picture or a song. will bring it all back. It just feels strange. I still have my pot, and I'm never going to get rid ofit. It's just sitting there on a shelf." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<> forecast for noon.Monday, Sept. 25. 

.......... ..._._~ 

02000 AccuWeather, Inc GOLD WARM STAIIONARY 
Hlg!-i Low Shower• Rein T•alorm• Flurrle• Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
A!lanta  74  62  Las Vegas  83  60  Portland  56  40  
Ballimore  74  47  Memphis  80  62  Sacramento  61  48  
Boston  70  49  Milwaukee  50  43  St. Louis  71  58  
Chicago  68  48  New Yori<  70  49  Tampa  88  68  
Houston  83  48  Ph,laoelph,a  75  48  Washington DC 75  49  

Mon<;fay, September 25, 2000 The Ohserver . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's graduates return as professors 
By CYD APELLIDO and STEPHANIE PATKA News Writers 
Sitting in the leclure halls and dassrooms, few studrnts envision themselves on the other side of the podium in that verv room. 
The p·ercentage of l'aculty thal havn made that jump. hovvever, is striking. Out ol' the 17'.{6 faculty at Notrf' Danw and Saint Mary's. :112 received degrees f'rom ont: of thr institutions. 
"It's  an  honor  to  be  back  
here  al  
S  a  i  n  t  

Mary's and "I believe in what Notre it's like 
Dame stands for and l 
going back 
wanted to be a part ofit.
to family." said biology The students do more professor than get an education. 
Lisa Rania. 
They are taught their 
w h o majored in responsibility for lhP 
I:nglish and betterment ofsociety arl history 
as a whole." 
at tlrn College. After !'our Steven Batill years at professor 
l\larquetle and Saint Marv's, Bania· officially became a Saint Mary's lfrlle in 1994. She worked as a lab instruc­tor in Saint Mary's in 1995 and finally becanw a full-time biology professor on campus in 1999. 
"At first, it was intimidating to be working with colleagues who wern actually my former teachers. However. [biology! Professor {Barbara] Flvnn helped me to adjust to ·the 

A  Houses f"or Rent: .1.. BR HO!'vl.ES 1.210 Cedar-St. $390/!'l,l(th 2BRHOI\'1:ES 1337 Fren'l.ul'IC. $550 .fl'l.-1:th .3 .BRHO~ES 2203 SMI.TH $55011"1.d'­4 BR H0:1\-'I:ES 1706 TAYLOR. S:575/M"th 1. .BR APTS ­l\,'l"JSJ-:l'V'\fAKA 314 WeUs -$100/Wk l-800-3:28-7368 Division or Culver Oevc:loprnen.t  


t1rnching r~nvironn11'nl I lovr1 te,Lching and it's rnwarding to gAt an opporlunily Lo work with oth!;r profpssors who were l'ornwr Saint Mary's graduates," ltunia said. 
As a reason for returning to their alma nrntPr, rnanv of' tlw. alumni professors said they believo in the mission ol' llw institutions th!'Y graduatPd 
from and now L<'ach ,Lt. · 
"I belicvP in what '\Jotrp Danrn stands t'o1· and I wanted lo bn a part or it. Th!' stud(~lllS do mor<' than get an ('dura­tion. They ar<' taught tlinir responsibility for 1lw !wt lP1·­
nrn n L oI' soc: i­nt.y as a w h o 1<' . " s a id prnf'Pssor Sl!WPll l~atill. who n:r('ivcd thrcP dPgrn!'S from tlw UnivPrsity. 
T h (\ 
UnivPrsity allows llw prol'Pssors LD continut' to embark on new frontit'rs. Th is way. llwy are continual­ly \naming." 

The small class sizt>s al Saint Mary's is something Llw alumni apprc'ciatc aboutlwing a faculty m11mbcr al th!\ College. 
"Saint Mary's still holds ll'll!' to the tradition or having a small teadrnr-student rntio. 
Al though llwre lrnvn bcnn somr. r<1novation and Lnrhn()­logical changes in tlw school. Saint Mary's still maintains an accessible faculty whPn' tlw 
t e a c h e rs gP l a ('. h a n c (' t o interact with their stud<'nts on a one-on-orn' basis." said Flynn. who graduat,·d l'rom the Collngt• in 197(>. 
"It's rewarding to go b,ld; and teach at Saint :Vlary's. 
l sa"W 

·corps, d 
"°With _t\lneri o.eighborhoo b ~ond. tnY . 
ei c. t unie-

for the i.1rs 

After graduating from college, Josh 
Borus joined AmeriCorps to help the youngest members of his community-and he discovered a whole new world. As a teacher's aide in a low-income neighborhood near his home in Boston, Josh worked with students well beyond the regular school hours and provided support they often didn't get at home. "If you se~ a problem, you have a responsibility to do something about it," Josh 
says. "AmeriCorps gave me that chance." 

Post-Graduate Volunteer Fair, Wednesday, September 27, 2000 6pm-9pm, Stepan Center. For mo·re information contact Courtney Nicholas at (312) 353-0574 or 
cnicholas@cns.gov. 
AmeriCorps:Are you up to t~e challenge? 
1-800-942-2677 www.Jmericorps.org/joining 

It's a grPal !'PPling to SP.e stu­cl<!nls improvt' and progn'ss in llwir stud it's. 1:or mP. it's also surprising bPrausn I am l.Pal'l1ing sc1rn1• ol' my l'ri,\nds' daught,•rs ... 1:1ynn said. 
Sonw or tlw prnfossors have morn prarlical reasons for rPlur11ing to lt'ach when' they r<'t:!'ivnd t.lwir undr,rgraduate cl Cgl'(\('S. 
"I am planning to go to gradual!• school in the very near f'uture." says Bridget c;r(•nn. a I<)tJ'J Notre Dame gradual<' and prof'Pssor of Spanish. "/\ posilion bc<·.anrn availablt' lo \1·ork in the In lo' r n a Lion a I St udi P s o !Tice and it St'('lllPd like thn right choicP al Lilt' tinw. lksides. it also allows rn1· to be. able to t t' at: h a ('lass in Sp an is h which not only lwlps tlw stu­dt111ts. but nw as wPll." 
Crnnn graduated with a 
dcgrl'<' in Spanish and philos­
ophy and a maslrr's degrPe in 
Spanish literature. 

"This is a wondPrl'ul University academically," she said. "You can gnt a lot out of it as a student and as tcacher as wnll." 
Aside f'rom those faculty who graduated from the insti­tution they arc tea,:hing at, there are numerous faculty 

who crossed  U.S.  31  after  
graduation.  
Constanre Biegel.  a  1978  

Notre Dame graduatn is another addition to the Saint Mary's teaching community. 
"I like teaching at SMC because it is a four-year insti­tulion allowing mo to l'o!' us on teaching rathtir than trying to juggle teaching and research at the same time." said Biegel. 
William Swilmoe. a history prol'essor at Saint Mary's.-11rst P.arned a maslPrs degt·<\n and Ph. I). in history from Notre Dame. HA rxplaincd that being at Saint Mary's gave 
Sophomores & Juniors!. 
$CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE NOW! 
AF ROTC -Producing Leaders for the Air Force and Building better citizens for America 

Non-competitive Scholarships ­$17,480 annually, are available for select majors for sophomores and 
for ALL juniorsI 
Don't waste a moment! Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
him an opportunity to experi­ence college life. 
"I commutted to school everyday as an undergraduate student in the University of California and that did not give me a chance to immerse myself in the college scene. Here at Saint Mary's, students get a chance get a chance to participate in many activities taking place on campus. If I have to go to college all over again, I would definitely choose a small private institu­tion like Saint Mary's College," he said. 
Svelmoe explained that teaching at a women's college is not a big change from a co­ed institution like Notre Dame. 
"It doesn't feel any different teaching in a women's col­lege; in fact, I am privileged to get an opportunity to work in a classroom full of great students," he said. 
Every time a company makes a product, they also use energy and naural resources. Every time you make a purchase, you could save some of tha energy and those resources. 'Cause when you buy durable and reusable products, there's less to throw aw;,:.;. And less to replace. For a free shopping guide, please call 
NI00•2•RECYO..E. 
BUY SMART. WASTE LESS. SAVE MORE~M 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 25, 2000 
Council 
continued from page I 
opportunity to serve her r.la.ss. 'Tm interested in listPning-to ideas from others' on campus and incorporating them into student govrrnment,'' she said. 
But some rcprPscntalives wiU move into their council positions with loss delim!d agendas. 
"/\ lot of pcop!P ar<~ talking about their plans and ideas. but I'm just not sum yet. I 
".11 lot <~/'people are
don't know council posi­what to talking about their plans tions an> expect," 
determined,

and ideas, but I'm just
Homero Moscona
not sure yet. I don't know
said. said mem­That's t.1.1/wt to expect. " bers will one reason have a busy
why in the few months
Tai Romero
first f'ew ahead of 
Walsh Hall representative
months them. Next 
meetings. give them a tour of the student government offices in the LaFortune Student Center and introduce council members to the faculty and student lead­ers with whom they'll be work­ing. Moscona said he also plans to make the frflshmfm familiar with handling required paper­work, operating the treasury and getting evenli;; approved. 
The sophomore class council will also serve as a supportive body for thP frPshmrn, arcord­ing to Moscona. 
Once all 
freshman 

,i.f'!nr the cuuncil is f'ornwd it \-Viii receive direction from morn experienced student governors. 
Each year the Student Senate appoinL<, a sophomore student advisor to guide the newly­elecl<~d council throughout its first year of' existence. This ypar Brian Moscona, a freshman rcpresnntative from Stanford Ila!! a year ago, will fill that roln. 
"I'll be there to explain how the system works and lo give them idea.'> about what they can do as a council. Basically, I'm just them to help them rnakr. their council effective," said Moscona, who also serves as sophomore d,L.,s prnsident. 
Moscona said he will attend the f'mshman council's weekly 
week, the 27 

represen ta-· tive will elect four executive om­cers -a president, vice pmsi­dent, socrrtarv and treasurnr ­from among them. Then, they'll have to organiw their class con­cession stand for the Nov. 11 Boston College football game. 
Moscona also said he'll encouragfl tbe council to devise a class T-shirt for sale at the concession stand. 
"We want to encourage them to do all that they can. But ulti­mately we want them to take control and be leaders of tlrnir class." Moscona said. 
And that's the purpose of thfl council, according to Heibel. 
"It's groat to get together with people who want to do the same thing as you -be student lead­ers," he said. 
Notre Dame Freshman Class Council Election Results 
Alumni Hall . No information available Badin Hall . Keri Oxley Breen-Phillips Hall . Primary election today Carroll Hall . Adam Krenn Cavanaugh Hall . Jessica Lebowitz Dillon Hall. . Na information available Farley Hall . Colleen Bell Fisher Hall . Run-off election today, Greg Celia and Nick 
Williams 
Howard Ha II . Lauren Beck Keenan Hall . Matt Heibel Keough Hall . Ron-off election today, Al Peetz and Luke Slonkosky Knott Hall . Jeffrey Newcamp Lewis Hall . Stephanie Rochel Lyons Hall . Pr;mary election Tuesday McGlinn Hall . Rebecca Williams Morrissey Hall . Jason King O'Neill Hall . No information available Pangborn Hall . Beth Guzowski Pasquerilla East Hall . No information available Pasquerilla West Hall . Carmen Roman Seigfried Hall . Run-off election today, Rob Keller and Derek Schmitt Sorin Hall . Pat Hallahan St. Edward's Hall . Stephen Garcia Stanford Hall . Run-off election today, Kevin Conley and Phuc Nguyen Walsh Hall . Tai Romero Welsh Family Hall . Jazmin Garcia Zahm Hall . Run-off election today, Pat McGarry and Dan Maguire 
Senate 
continued from page 1 

Clemency said he was using the Granger address "for the purpose of the eler:tion" and 
· therefore Wagner concluded Clemency could not claim off­campus rr.sidfrncy. The senate unanimously sided with Judicial Council and said that becausn Clenwncy has a room in Zahm Ila!!, reasonably, Im could not run f'or off-campus 
senator. · 

Keep recycling working. : IL Buy recycled. 
0 

Celebrate America Becycles Day on November 15th. 
For a. free brochure, please call l-800-CALL-EDF or visit our web site at www.edf.org 

Support 

The College Fund. 
Call 1-800-332-UNCF. 

The College FundtUNCF 
A mlodis a lbriblc dllog 10-. 

is pleased to announce the presentation of 
The Thomas Dooley III, M.D. Award ofExceptional Service 
to 

Phil Donahue '57 
in recognition of his work in advancing the rights of Lesbian and Gay citizens ofthe nation and ofthe ND/SMC community 
The Dooley Award, established in 1996, is a national honor awarded to persons who, through a faith-based background centered in Gospel values, have demonstrated extraordinary personal courage, compassion, and commitment to advance the human civil rights of lesbian and gay Americans. Previous recipients include Virginia Apuzzo and Brian McNaught. 
The Dooley Award was formal1y conferred to Mr. Donahue on Saturday, September 23 at GALA-ND/SMC's Reunion 2000 Banquet at South Bend's Union Station. 
Reunion 2000 is the first official gathering ofGALA-ND/SMC members in South Bend since 1994. GALA has no official affiliation with-and receives no support from-the University ofNotre Dame or Saint Mary's ColJege. Our strength and support come from our membership and our numbers. 

Monday, September 25, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Former Peru spy chief flees bribery 
scandal: PPni's o\lstPCl spy chid 111\d Sunday lo Panama, trigg1Ti11g opposition demands that l'rPsidPn( ,\lhi-rf.o Fujinrnri's govPrnnwnt explain hmv the furnll'r top aide eluded arrest 111Hl proSt!Clllion ovPr a brib1'ry scandal at honH•. Though Fujirnori focrd opposition angi1r. tlw Psnqw ol' Vladimiro MonlP-sinos could n•solw for him tlw pohinlially dangProus qtu•s­tion of what to do \Vith his formm· aidP. who il \.nts li•an•d rnulcl rally his pmwrful ,illins in tlw military lo his sic!P if' pros11ct1lPd "vlontnsinos· prt'-dawn !light. madP i11 sPcrncv, t'.a11w alter Lalin .\nwrirnn l'OUtllrins. back<'ci by tlw Unitt'd Stat1is. urgPd Panama to takP him in dt•spit!\ its carliPr rl'f·usal -apparently lo smootlw Pnru's ,,vay mll ot' it" politiwl crisis. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Gas prices stay high: c;asolit11\ pric<'s rPmainPd sll1ady ovPr tlw past two w11eks, with nn imnwdiate impart f'rorn Prnsidnnt Clinton's d11!'.ision to lap 30 million barrels of' oil from enwq!;pm:y slockpiles. an analyst said Sunday. Tlw l.undlwrg Survey of 10,000 stations nation­widP found that the avnragf' pricti of all grades, plus taxPs. was $1.Ci2 per gallon Friday. It was a tl'nth or a cent per gallon lowPr than prices tlw survey found two wn11ks ago, but 28 cents ptir gallon higlwr than for th,1 sanw period a ypar ago. Analyst Trilby Lundberg said that prkPs likdy wouldn't drop to 1999 it'vels any tinw soon. 
Two arrested in postgame brawl: A Florida youth football ganw PndPcl in a brawl with mon' than I00 par<•nts, coaches and tPPn­ag!' playPrs shouting and shoving 01w anollwr and thrnwing pundws after an owrtinw touch­down won tlw ganw. Polic'.11 on Sunday wnrc still dPbating who started Saturday's mcl,w lwtwP1'11 tlw l1•ams of 14-and 15-ynar-oldfrom Porl Orang<' and WinlPr Springs. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Judge will hear abortion case: A 
Marion County judgt' hears final arguments this WPt'k from attorneys !'or Llw Indiana Attorney CP1wral's ollicc and two abortion clinics se(1king to nverturn Indiana's abortion law. Tlw clinics vvant the courts to ovf'rturn thn statp's current abortion lav.·. ,vhid1 pNmits M!•dicaid funding ol' abortions only if Llw wom,m's lifo is in danger or she is a victim of' rapt' or incnst. Lawyers f'or the Clinic for Women in Indianapolis and Women·s Pavilion in South !fond say the law violates Indiana's Constitution because it dis­l'riminatPs against pn•gnant wonwn. 
Market Watch 9/22 
Dow· 

10,847.37 +8 l .85
}ONES 
• 
Composite
Up; Same; Volume:

1.338 473 

1,172.199,936 
AMEX: 929.94 +2,19 Nasdaq: 3803.76 -25.11 NYSE: 659.34 +5.ll S&P 500: 1448.72 -0.33 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANYISF.Cl!RITY %Cl1ANGE $GAIN PRICE INTl·I t'.<>l~I' rtNT( ·1 ...!..?.Oj 1.i.r;l.f ,..... ,,.. 
:: ,... _,_.,,,
llHI <'ll~(l•tr rl·TI ii )11.! I i;,-_,_1,1 
t:I\L() '\:,II .'vt\ ,c,c11, -IH -ILHI l,illl 
W!JIU11.('( )~-1 INC /\VCO~ll ,,~ -D.12 2(,_i:;t) 
\-11(,j!( I\UFT Ull(i' iMSl·J'i .l.4(, -·0.1)4 (,.L?.'i 
C0MPIIE!) FH0M TIIE OBSEHVEH WIRF SERVICES page 5 
YUGOSLAVIA 

. Challenger claims victory in election 
Associated Press 

IJEU;lli\DI: 
With thn opposition claiming victory. Slobodan Milos11vic: was loc:kl'cl in a bitl(1r cl11ction ract' Sunday that rould s1wll llw PIHi of' his 13 ynars in pm,c'r. ,ilkr Yugoslavs l.urnncl out in largl' numlwrs in 1'11aotir. voting. 
!lours al'tt•r polls closncl, it appeared llw bns! that Milosevic could hop<• J'or was to h11ad into a rnnoff Oct. S against his slrongPsl chall!1ng1•r. Vojislav Koslunica. 
Kostunica's supporters claimed Im had won out­right and -after a day whnn vote monitors reported widespread irreg­ularities accused Milosevic of trying to· manipulate the vote count to force a runoff. 
"There is no doubt that WP overwhelmingly won on all levels," said opposi­tion campaign manager Zoran Djindjic. "Milosevic has to seriously under­stand the _judg1mmt of his­lo ry, and he shouldn't gamble any longer. He has to recognize the defeat. It seems, this is the end of his career." 
Sensing a dramatic turn, huge crowds of opposition supporters strnamod into the streets of downtown Belgrade late Sunday to await official results. Ilelmeted riot police car­rying shields and armed with tear gas launchers cordoned off the group but later withdrew after a concert by Milosevic's sup­porters ended. 
Similar gatherings were reported in Nis, Novi Sad, Cacak and severai other towns in Yugoslavia's main republic Serbia. There were no immediate reports of clashes. 
Early Monday, the state election commission sus­pended the official count for the night without announcing any results. Kostunica's supporters said they would offer proof 
that their candidate had won the election. while political parties issued dif­fering figures they said were based on their poll watchers' reports. 
Cedomir Jovanovic, spokesman of Kostunica's Democratic Opposition of Serbia, said that based on returns from 45 percent of 10,000 polling stations, Kostunica was leading with 57 percent to 33 per­cent for Milosevic. Three other candidates are in the race. 
Milosevic's Socialist Party claimed the presi­dent was leading Kostunica by about 46.87 percent to 38.6 percent based on returns from 754 polling stations. 

VENEZUELA 
OPEC faces challenges at summit 
President Clinton's efforts to push Secretary General Rilwanu Lukman of 
Associated Press 

down oil prices drew clashing reac­Nigeria insisted Sunday. "The last 
CJ\RACJ\S tions from IPadcrs of the Organization timP we did that, the pricp,s went 
"Ve1rnzu1>li1 l'romotcs Global of Petroleum Exporting Countries, down to $10 a barrel ... and nobody llarmony." trump1•ts f hi' two-story who lind tlrnmsclves under immense was sorry for us." banner drnp1:d in l'nllll oJ' the Caracas pressun: to boost production. What Venezuela. which holds the rotating tlwaler wlwrn ()l'l·C IPadPrs are hold­had bel\11 billed as a feel-good summit OPEC presidency, insists the cartel is ing tlwir lirst sulllmit in 2:i yc\ars this on long-term OPEC strategy has unified ~ and that no production deci­WP1•k. lmcoum a wild card that will gauge the sions will be made during the summit. 
lh1t the polic<• and lrn111b-sniffing 1 ·1-nation cartel's efforts at solidarity. which runs Tuesday through 
dogs in tlw. barnwr's shadow and the "We arc not going to allow ourselves Thursday, That issue will come up at global damor owr oil prit·cs suggPst to be pushed into lrcloasingl more oil an OPEC meeting in Vienna in otherwise. than the market needs," OPEC November, members say. 
Monday, September 25, 2000 

Monday, September 25, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
UNITED KINGDOM 
Monica Lewinsky to 
appear on British TV 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Monir.a I.cv1,inskv. whose affair with Pn~sidcnt Clinton made h£;r a rclebritv in thn Unilf\d Statns, will be: report­ing on Anwrican cnlturn !'or a BriLish tnl,;vision 1wtwork. her publirisl said Sunday. 
Tll<' formPr \Vhit" llousP intNn has agn•nd to host six 4-minutf' SC'gnwnts dubbt>d "Postcards f'rom l\lonica" for Britarn·s Charnwl 5. according to Juli NadlPr, Lewinsky's spokesw,1man: 
l\iadlcr said.lhr• sngnrnnts would br a "lightlwartf'd look al ,\nwrit:an pop rultu.rn !'or British vic"vVPrs" Slw drr:linPd to say how rnul'h Lrwinsky 
would bn paid. 
Though LhP scgm,H1ls will air in NnvembPr, Lewinskv won't be reporting on th~ United States· nu~jor evnnt of that month -thr prrsidcnLial clcrUon. ' 
"Monica's agrrrment with IT'.'J, ClrnnnPl 5, stipulatns what has alwavs bN'n ht>r position -that shP n>l't1SPS to mukr any publir rnnrnwnL on anv political issu,,s. inrluding tlw U.S. L'IPr.tions," Nadlr,r said. 
Clinton's affair with u,winsky IC?d to his imprnrh­men t trial last ypar in thP SPnatP. !Ir was 1tc.quittrd 
Sin('.C thr scandal. Lewinsky has writtPn a book and has startPd hPr own line of' hand-

LIECHTENSTEIN 
Banks abolish nailleless accounts 
• Bankers of tiny nation hope to fend off critics 
Associated Press 
VAIH.iZ 

Lircbtr,nstr,in's bankers said Thursday limy have formally a p prov(\ d th(' abolition or anonymons ac<'ounts, fulfilling a commitment thny madn two months ago unclrr prt'ssurP to damp down on motH\Y lrnrnd<'r­ing. 
The dPcision. \\ hkh ~oes into dl't•ct Orl. 1, •..vas nrnd<' at a spp1·ial ge1wral mrwting of thn LinchtrnstPin Bankrrs Association. which stressed that bank cust.omrr S<'nrcy is othrr­\visP inta<'t. 
Bcginnin){ 1wxl month. banks will rt'quirri lawyPrs and nth1ir intnrmcdiariPs to disrlos0 tlw namrs or th,, dPµositors they reprcsrnt. Tlw hanks tlwn will rhC'rk oul th<' iclPnlilics them­selves. 
They also will check tlw iden­tities of' existing anonymuus account holders. "The banks hope to r.omplt>te the work by tlrn end of' 2001 at tlw latest." their association said in a state­mnnt. 
Thi' Alpine principality of 32,000 peoplr has been in thn international spolligbt over thr past year following the publica­tion of allegations that it is a [avon•d location for organized criminals and drng traffickers to laund1T money. 
In June. it was placed on a blacklist of nations accused of !'ailing to cooperate in the fight against the r.onrealment of ille­gally earned funds. The govern­ment has pushed through a package of measures to tighten thfl law. 
"With the new policy, the bankers association is acting decisively to counter the criti· dsm against Liechtenstein with concrete measures," the bankers' association said. Sanctions for failing to comply would include exclusion from the group. 
The bankers havo said that some clients, sur.h as founda· lions, may refuse to disclose their identitv and decide to withdraw their funds. 


The "Know Your Customer" _requirement has been applied in neighboring Switzerland over the past decade to halt foreign potentates and criminals from using so-called -numbered accounts to hide ill-gotten gains. 
An estimated one-third of Lier:htenstein bank deposits are placed by intermediaries. 
SPOTLIGHT ON LIECHTENSTEIN 
Perched in the Alps between Switzerland and Austria, this tiny principality has attracted billions of dollars in wealth from foreign investors. Bui outsiders allege LiechteDstein is an international money laundering haven, forcing authorities here into an unprecedented clampdown against white collar crime. 
Population: 32,000 

Area: 62 sq. miles ,'!f!_ Prince 
~ 
Hans­

Businesses: Financial " ~ / 
Adam II

s-ervices, electronics, textiles ---.., _,.,. 


and ceramics ,------,-~-,----3-m-il-es-----, 
• 
3km German, Alemannic dialect 
Principal language: 
Ruggell/
<., I// R.
'""­
Government: Hereditary 
" 
constitutional monarchy 


Source: The World Almanac AP/'Wm. J. Castello, S. Hoffmann 

El Salvador.,., Monday., September 25, at: 8 pm DeBartolo 138 
* 
The struggle £or human rights: resisting economic and political oppression 

* 
A critical look at US involvement in El Salvador during the 


* 
This event International the Theology 



is co-sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for Studies, the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies, Department, and the Catholic Social 
Monday, September 25, 2000
page 8 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 
Clinton, Lazio reach soft money ban agreement 
. Candidates make history with ad ban pledge 
Nl!W YOHK 

It's a historic d<'VPlopnrnnt in tlw nation ·s most-walc.lw.d SPJHlll' racP: llillarv Boclharn Clinton and fwr ll;\publican opponf\llL. Hep. Hick Lazio, !mv,· banned sof't-monny ads from th<\ir campaigns. 
On Sunday, as both sidPs jostlNI to tab· credit. watch­dog groups cher.rnd ­
but also 
"We't•e never had two 
stating, "\'nt.c

f\xpresirnd 
candidates agree not to for so-and­
s k ,~ p l i ­cism. spend money that they so." 
Should sol'L
··we 'vp 

could have had. " 
mon<'y h<'

111iver had 
banned,

two candi­
Lazio could

d a Lr~ s Larry Makinson 
have an

agreP not Center for Responsive Politics 
a<lvantnµ;n.

to spend 
m o n e y 
that thcv could hav;1 had," said Larry Makinson of the Cr.nter for Responsive Politics in Washington. D.C. 'Tm surprised. And like the campaigns themselves. I'm a little wary that it will stick." 
The two campaigns reached a dnal latP Saturday that pro­hi bits the political parties Pndorsing them from airing TV and radio ads boosting their candidates or attacking their opponnnts. That applies to thP Hepublican and Conservative parties on his side and the l)emorratic, Liberal and Working Families parties on h,~r sidn. 
Violations will be punislwd rr!ciprocally: If' onp side buys about this. they would both pledgn to pass a sofl-mo1wy ban when they're elnrtnd." 
Lazio said Sunday on ABC's "This week" that llrn volun­tary agreement betwcPn llw two campaigns showPd "wn can lnad without a law lwing in plan~." 

Soft rnonnv refors to unlim­it<•d funds c·o!lect<'d by politi­cal partiPS: Whil,, hard morwy ('(rntributions. limiLPd lo $2.000 per donor. can bt· usrd for ads that advo('atl' voting for or against a ('andi­date, so!'t money ran only br· . used lo advo<'atri an issuP. boost a candidatr or attark a 
canclidatl'. 
ralhRr than 
The lat,•st 
l'cdcrnl f'il ings 
showr1d his r.ampaign had more hard money than hers -$10.2 million to $7.1 million. 
Sen. John McCain. 11-Ariz .. who made campaign finance n~form his top issue in his bid !'or thr Hepublican prnsid<!Il· tial nomination. praised it as a "bnld agreement'' on sort money. 
"The New York rac(, would have been one of ttw mDst soft money controlled 1°!Pc­tions in the history or SnnatP elections," McCain said, "but these two candidates hav1· taken a risk that can onlv be n e f'i t th e ru tu r () () r () lli· democracy." 

Gore denies knowledge of tape 
Associatt'd l're,s 

,\USTIN, T11xas 
Vic t• I' ros icl 1 • n t 1\ I (;ore 
d1'1·lar1\d Su1Jclay that he 
doPsn't know lww his 1•.am­
paign 1•1Hlnd up with a boot­
lt•g vid,•o­
t ii p(' () I' 
(;(\lll'gP \\'. 
B LI s h 
ri·hPars­
i n g l'o r 
11 t' :,,; L 
month's 
d1•batns. 
l~ut. hi' 
l o I d 
r1~port1·rs. 

.. 1r s o m p bo c1 _\ i n t 11<, Bu s11 
,·a111paign kt\Pps SPnding con­
l'id1·nti1tl inlcrnul data to us. 
w1\'!1 k1•np turnll)g it ovor to 
tlw l;BI." 

That 1·0111nw11L, in a .confPr-1•11rP rail with rnporters, r;inrn as thP two camps trad­1•d IH'\I accusations ovnr the myslt'rious parkagn -and . 11lwtlwr thf\rt• is a Gori' spy 
in Husli's 1·amp1tign. 

Hush opcrativns soiznd 
upon tht· Gori' ('ampaign's 
susµunsion of' a _junior staffer 
i11 ! lw m at tri r t o h u r I n e w 
arr.usalions al Gore's 
Nashvii In. Tenn. -based opnr­
ation. 

.. ThP morr\ lhe FBI 
inquirt\S, the more nervous 
t h<'~'·r<' gl'Lting in Nashville," 
said Bush spokcsman Ari 
I:11•ist:!wr. 

Tlw Core staffer. Michanl 
Doyn<'. L8, was susp1rnd<'d 
al't1•r hi' af'knowledged 
boasting of a "rno!P" plantnd 
in Bush's campaign. 

l)oyn1• now insists the 
"rnolc" \\'as a product of his 
imagination and Gore 
spnknsman !\-lark Fabiani 
said campaign officials do 
nol i)('iiPVP thnP is anv such 
lkmo('ratir spy. · 


But Fleischer said Doync's suspension "raises questions on whether others in the Gore campaign havn infor­mation" obtained through political espionage. 
"It def'iPs rrodibiliLy," Fleischer said of tho wholr-1 incident. 
GOP· running mate Dick Cheney said there's cause for ro1101rn. "Thorn snems tu be a little bit of smoke there. WhPther or not there's a fire. I don't know," hr said on ABC's "This Week." 
On Sept. 13, a packag11 including tlw tapP arrived at the Washington olTicn of' for­mer Hep. Thomas Downey of New York, who had b<rnn !wiping Gorn prnparn f'or the debates. It had an Austin postmark. 
Gore told rnporters lhat Doyne "has signed a sworn al'fidavii that he has no knowledgP-whatsoever of any so-called mole or Gore sympathizer wilhin the George Bush presidential campaign. That's all I know about it." 
As lo the tape, "I don't know who sent it," Gore said. ''l'vo read the reports that the FBI has identified a Bush campaign official as the person responsible but I have no knowledge other than that." 
B u s h r, a m p a ig n o ffi ci a I s have denied strongly that anyone involved in debate preparations sent lhe tape to Gorn's campaign. 
However, they have not ruled out thn possibility that a junior staffer may have stumbled upon a copy of the tape and passed it on, or that a security lapse may have allowed the tapr, to be copind outside campaign hnadquartnrs. 
FBI agents wore in Austin on Friday interviewing staffers with direct access to debate pn~paration material. 
Both candidates stayed close to home Sunday ­Gore in Washinglon, Bush in Austin -while the race was conducted by conl'erencn calls laying out tho coming week. 
Handling his own phone work, Gorn promised a "dntailed book" -74 pages, an aidn said -on how hp would modnrnize and expand Medir.arn. 
"Medicare facns insolvency unlnss wn act now. I want tu make a rock-solid commit­rnen t to Mndicare," Gorp said. "The othnr side treats tho surplus as a piggybank for a tax r.ut." 
Bush, just back from a two-day trip lo Florida. was leaving Monday on a thnrn­day trip to Oregon. Washington state and California during which he. will promote his education plans. 
Timed to coincide lhe trip is a new Hepublican National Committen ad suggesting the nation is in thr grips of an "education recession." 
Citing low test sr.ores. par­ticularly on math and sci­ence, the ad implies that part of' the blame rests with the Clinton-Gore administra­tion. It also praises Bush's record as governor of Texas. 
Bush's camp also wel­comed new weekend polls suggesting he had reclaimed somn of his losses to Gore. It also confirmed reports of' sharply reduced advertising in Illinois. a key battle~ ground state, but dcnind that was becausn the campaign felt Gore's lead there had become unassailabln. 
$100,000 worth ol' air tinw, 
l h<' o tlw r s id<' c an cl o th <> samP Tht• agr<'Pl11Pnl dons not 
DOUBLE
ban dil'I\C'I mail or gl'l-out­tlw-votP t>fforts. Mall Kr•IIP.r. dqrnty IPgisla­
EXPOSURE
tivP dirPrtor or Common Caus,•. a w11lrhdog group in 
Thomas Bowes, violin & 
Washington. said it would b1\ 
Eleanor Alberg ., piano
llw first major campaign in which both ll'ading randi­
Tuesdqt, October 3, 2000
datPs signnd such a plt>dg<\. 
"The best thing about it is llutl it shows they'n• trying to addrPss sort monpy; Lhn worst 
1,;.,..,,,.,.C•ll•·•o

thing is. we think it's nWI'!! politics than actual rPf'orm," 
1M8_fflf!'fr._ 


said Hach1d I.Pon. exPrutiv1\ 
~NOTJI•DAM.. IN 

dirt•ctor of Common Causn­
For ticket information conlad the Saint 10ory's Box Office, 2844626 
NY. "If tlw candidates want­Pd lo show thPy'rp serious
,­
!At~ a 289-5080
~a!J~ Announces the Following Introductory Offers Of.. 
e) l'io¾ OFFI r $26, r S59 , ,.. $68 ., ,-$69 ., 
I Aveda I I Cut & I Ir:c101. cu1 &: ,I)'~ I I Perm, Cut I I Hilites & I 
L ~t!!! ..J L ~Y_: .J L;!"!..Pr!«!!J L ~z_!e.J 1£u!.!'lty~ 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
NOT VALID FOH SPlHAL PEH.MS, LONG on TINTED HAIH ADD $10, No OTIIE!l DISCOUNTS APPLY. OPEN SOME EVENINGS. ATRIA SALON RESERVES TIIE RIGHT TO REFUSE SEHVICE TO ANY CLIENT WIIOSE HAIR CONDITION rs UNSUITABLE. 
Valid with the Following Stylists Only: Sarah, Vicki, & Connie 
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must Be Presented To Receptionist Before Services Are Performed (Certain Restrictions Apply) r357 N. Ironwood Dr. Offer Expires rn/10/2000 

Tickets available at the Morris Box Office and selected Majerek's Hallmark locations. 
******* 
TICKETS: $25.50 & $20.50 
******* 
Charge by phone 
at 235-9190 
or 

1-800­537-6415 
M
.\IO R.R I~ 
. ,, . ' .... 
( I '·, I i P 
,ports• entertainment •travel 
Morris Performing Arts Center 


Monday, September 25, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 
California mulls car seat laws 
25% of our country's homeless are families with children 
(National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty, 1999) 

The Center for Social Concerns is "Gear"ing up for another successful year for Project Warmth! Last year, approximately 1550 jackets were collected and redistributed to those in the community who were in need of them. 
GEAR csc 
C E N T E R F O R
Starts October 23, 2000 
----SOCIAL
• 0 • I II O a I S 
Citizens blame US law in ambassador fracas 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

In a country when~ rule­breaking has always been the rule, the American penchant for laws and rngulations has long been the butt of jokes ­but no one's laughing now that the U.S. ambassador's security clrarancr has been suspended for sloppy handling of sensitive materials. 
Tsraf'lis sympathized 
with Martin "The mishap that is ambassador 
was guilty

lndyk liable to dash his career 
only of enthu­admired here 

could only have siasm for his
for his dedica­tion to peac:e­happened in America." job. 
"He took hismaking -and 

work homescornPd an 

Nahum Barnea 
with him."

unforgiving 
columnist Haber told
American burr.aucrar:y. 
" T 11 e mishap that is liable to dash his career could only have hap­pened in America," wrote columnist Nahum Barnea in Sunday's Yediot Ahronot. He blamed the suspension on "American stiffness." 
lndyk's indiscretion involved the use of an unclassified. gov­ernment-owned laptop c:omput­er to prepare classified memo­randu ms about discussions with foreign leaders, said a source outside the State Department who is familiar with the investigation. 
"I regn~t that my trying lo do the best possible job under very difficult conditions has led to thP tPmporary suspension of my security clearances," lndyk said in a statement. 
Eitan Ilabor, who has be<'n lndyk's friend since the heady days of the peace process·s launching in 1993 -President Clinton had just hired lndyk as an adviser. and Haber was a senior aide to Prime Minist<·r Yitzhak Babin -said the 
Israel TV. 
"We all do.·• 

The same laws in Israel are universally honored in the brt")ach. HabPr said. 
"If the laws were applied, the truth is. myself and virtually every Cabinet minister would all be sitting next to Arieh Deri," a former interior min is­ter jailed recently for bribe-tak­ing. 
Israelis pride themselves on rule-breaking -according to their national myth, it's how the small state survived sur­rounded by their Arab ene­mies. 
Associated Press 
WEST SACRAMENTO 

Han~ is the day Victoria Williums' two c:hildren, ages 1 and 2. don't try to wriggle out or their car seats. 
"I'll be driving down the high\-vay and have to pull over because they are totally out of their scats," Williams says. "They hate those things." 
Given their disdain for the straps and hard plastic, Anthony and Brandon won't appreciate the effects of a bill awaiting Gov. Gray Davis' sig­naturn that, if signed, would require they be strapped into booster scats until age 6 or until they reach 60 pounds. 
If Davis signs the legislation, California will be the first state to institute such a boost­n r srat rule. A similar law passed earlier this year in Washington is expected to go into el'f'ect shortly after Calil'ornia would begin in January 2002. 
Similar legislation has been discussed in Idaho, Texas and Colorado. In New York, a bill to requiro boosters seats until age 7 was sunk by the state Senatf'. 
Sr!Jl. Jackie Speier, a Daly City lkmocrat whose husband died in a car crash, sponsored the California bill, contending that standard seat belts are d11sigrwd for adults and fail to protect young children. 
A small child can slip out of a standard seat belt in a colli­sion and be thrown from the vehicle, or receive serious 
internal injuries or cuts from the belt falling in the wrong place, she said. 
Child safety seats -typically costing $30 to $100 -raise a child so the lap belt fits over the pelvis and the shoulder strap fits across the chest. 
California currently requires the seats for children up to age 4 or 40 pounds. 
Speier aides say they are "cautiously optimistic" the governor will sign the bill. Davis has not said whether he will sign it or not. He rejected 
Boosting child safety 
California could be the first state to require that children in cars use booster seats -a hard foam piece that lifts a child at least six inches off the seat -until thev are 6 vears old or weiah 60 oounds. 
Without a booster seat BWlth a booster seat 

I 
I 

Booster seats for children weighing between 40 pounds and 60 pounds require both a lap and shoulder belt to meet government safety requirements for head and neck injury protection. 
Source: Boost America AP 
a proposal last year to legis­late booster seats for children up to age 7 because the bill lacked a weight limit. 
In addition to increasing the age required for booster seats, the new bill would double the fine to $100 for first-time vio­lators. Subsequent infractions would be $250. Part of the money collected from the fines would remain in the commu­nities for use in child passen­ger safety education programs that would loan or offer dis­counts on booster seats. 
® CONCERNS 
http://www.nd.edu/~ndcntrsc/ProjectWannth/new/index.html COMING SOON! 
.. 
I • •

·--·-·-·-······-····· ... :;. ............... -·-··--·----·----··-J 
.------------------------------------------------------------------------~---­
VIEWPOINT 
page I 0 os~tRvER Monday, September 25, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.. 0. Jlox Q, Notre Dame, IN 465% 024 South Dmin~ Hall, Nurre D.,mc. IN 465'i(, 
EDITOR IN CtHEI' Mikt' Connolly 

MANMilNG [OITOR  Bl!SINf.~S MANAGER  
Non:rn Gillespie  Tim L.mc  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Christine Kr.1k  Brian Kcssl.-r  

NEWS Ennon: Anne Marie Marringly VWWl'OINT EDITOR: l.il.1 Haughey SrORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith 
ScEN£ EDITOR: Amand.1 Crern SMNT MARV'S EnrroR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: F!i1:1beth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pac Peters 
Ao Dt~\IGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS Al)MINISTRATOR: Mike c_;luwillc 
WEil Al>MINISTRAf0R: Adam Turner 
CoNTROl.tfR: Boh Woods 
GIUl'IIICS El>IT0lt: Jose Cur.liar 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE M/\NAGFR/GENERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX .. .. . .......... ..... ..................6., l -6927 ADVfRTISINt;..................................651-(,900/8840 
nh~crvt·r@darwin.cc.nd .edu 
Emnrn IN C!IIEI'............ ··········· ..............631 ·4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME .................... 6.~ 1-454 f BUSINESS 0H'ICE.......................................63 l -'i3 I 3 
NEWS ... ······································631-'BB ohscrver.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'OlNT..... .........................................631-5303 
observer.virwpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS .... 
···············•·············••·····631-454:I 
ohservn.spnrrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.. .....................................................631-4540 ohsawr.sccnc. l@n<l.edu 
SAINT MARV'S............................................631-4.324 obscrver.smc. l@nd.edu l'IIOTO....... ...................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB AllMIN!STRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Wd, sire at http://observer.nd.edu for d,1ily updates of campus news, sports, foam res and opinion columns, a.swell as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from the As,,ociaccd Press. 
s 

n1ovies/music for
weather for up-co-the 
mjnute fon...-c;1sts 

weekly s rudenr reviews 
advenisc for policies 

online features for spe· 
.md rates ofprint jd, 

cial campus coverage 
archives lO ,earch for 

ahout The Observer 
to meet rbe editors and 
.midcs published atier 
A11~usc I')')') 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rh,· indcpcndrnr, daily newspaper publi,lwd in print and online by tl1e srndenrs of rhe Univcrsiry ofNotre Dame du Lll ,md Saint Mary', Colkge. hliwri.tl rnnccm. illlfoding adverri,emrn1s, is not gnvcrncd bv policies of the administration ofcithe1 msticmion. Tlw Ohservtr reserves rhe righr ro rdi1sc Jllvertisemenr3, based on contt."nl, 
!'ht· news i, n·ported J, accurately and ohj,·ctivcly a, pm,ihk-. Umigned ditori.il, represent the opiruon of the m.1joritv nfrh,· Fditur in Chit'f. Managing Editor, A.si,r,1nr M:111.rging Editor .md dq,annwnr edirors. ComnH.·1H;1ril's, l<·uers and colunrn.1» present thi..· views of rhe a111hor. .ind nor neces.,.1rily those ofThe 
Vicwpoinr ,p,1ce i, available to all reade1s. The free expression ot .ill opininns through 1..-crers is cnnH11.1ged. Letters to rlw 1-.diror must l,e signed and must include cn1u;1cr inli1rmui<m. 
Qumums r~(1ll'di11,rt. (Jhsmw policie., should he d,rm­al rr, hlitor III C'l11t'jitfikr C0111111l/y. 

Questioning Knight's reputation 
Two W(\eks ago, Indiana Univnrsity lirnd head basketball coach Bob Knight. Three national championships (including the undefeated 1976 team), 11 Big Ten titles and 763 can•er wins ensure Knight's place among lhe 
Scott Blaszak 
game's greatest coaches, but, per­haps unfairly, thny will not be~ why 
The Early 
he's renrnrnb<ffl\d. 
Essays

Controversy plagued Knight's 29-ynar rnign at Indiana, and as a result of his tnams' lack or success over the last dc\cade, his acrimonious btihav­ior becam(\ <wen morn magniliPd. 
I. myself. havP always likPd Knight. As college baskfltball grows morP and morn dominated by the highlight rt•nl, with showy, egotistical atblnlt!S strip­ping control and rPspPcl away l'rom lax coaclrns. Knight's hard, no-1w11sP11st• instruction and disciplined, unsdfish system remain a refreshing throwback. 
J\nd it's not like 1werything you hear about him is factual. Sum, tlwrt! was a thrown chair and lliat \·\.'holl' dnal down in Punrto Hirn, hut thci media has done wonders to blow Coach Knight's temiwr out of proportion. Don't beliPVI' nw? Below is a list of Knight's most out­landish 1:an1cr lowlighls. Nol all or them am tnw. St•e if you can dt'!·iplwr Llw veritable incidences rrom the e1-ro­n<\ous rumors I f'ound rocketing across tlw lntnrncL /\nswc1rs are givPn at tfw end. 
llere WI\ go: 

I. 197:i-76: Upsc\L over two tu,·novers. Knight jcTks soplwmorc .Jim Wisman by his jers,1y into his seat. 
2. 
1979: Knight is convicted and sen­tenced to six months in jail for striking a Puerto Hican policeman while serving as the U.S. baskntball coach at the Pan Amnrirnn Games. In 1987, Puerto Hico ceases efforts to t~xtraditc him. 

3. 
1980: Knight is banned from conti­nnntal Africa for attempting to bring back Nigerian slavus for insnrtion into his injury-depicted l'ront court in nxchangn for molasses. 

4. 
1981: In Philadelphia for tlw Final Four. Knight involves himself' in a shov­ing match with an LSU fan, who alleg<>s that Knight stuffed him in a garbage 


can. 

:i. 1984-85: Knight hurls chair across Asst•mbly llall in a game against Purdu!1. For this ho is ejected and sus­1wndcd one game by the Big Ten. lie latPr apologizes. 
6. 
198(>-87: lhcensed by his power forward's failure lo provide wcakside lwlp in a home ganrn versus Valparaiso, Knight shoots sophomore Dugan Thomas sc~ven timns in the chest with a vintage WWII revolvm· that once: belonged to Knight's hero, Georg<> Patton. lie latl'r apologizes. 

7. 
1<)88: During an NBC interview with Conni<\ Chung, when asked how lw manages stress, Knight says, "I think that if rapn is inevitable, relax and <' nj oy il." 

8. 
l 989: Five minutes into tlw follow­up interview, Connie Chung asks Knight about his policy of banning wumcn reporters from his locker room bnfore and af'tnr games. Outraged that a woman is asking this question, Knight stuffs Conni<· Chung in a garbage can. 


9. 1993-94: During a tinrnout on the 
road at Michigan State, Knight uninten­tionally head butts Indiana freshman Sherron Wilkerson. 
10. 
1994-95: Unhappy with the pre­game analysis nt a home game vs. Carnegie Mellon, Knight intentionally lrnad butts ESPN commentator Dick Vitale, who had attacked I.U.'s non­conference sclwdule for being "cupcakn city." 

11. 
March 2000: A videotape surfacns supporting !'Jcil !fond's 1997 allngation that Knight choked him during a prac­tice. Hcports of other incidents emcrgn, onn in which Knight throw a vase at a university secrntary, and another in which Knight, disguised as tlrn most cunning of all animals. ofTnred the for­biddPn quinc•p lo an unassuming l!vP. 

12. 
Sept. 7, 2000: Knight grabs Indiana stud<•nt by the arm and lc>c­turns him about manners af'tPr tlw stu­c!Pnl greets him with, "llny, Knight." 


1:1. S<ipt. 8, 2000: On a fishing trip in Canada. Knight misconstru<is sarcasm in his guid<\0S small talk, tins him up with fishing lilw and uses him for tlw lwtter part ol' tlrn nvening as an anchor. Tlw guide had simply said, "What a nice night." 
Thanks f'or playing. I!en• ar<' tlw answers. 
l. T;2. T:3. F;../-. T:5. T;6. F; 7. T: 
8. F; 9. T; 70. F; 11. mostly T; 72. T: 13. 
F. 
Scull Blaszak is a senior l:'nglish major. /!is column appears in Viewpoint ecl('ry other Monday. 
The views expressed in t./zis column are those ofthe author and nol neces­sarily lhosc• of The Ohseruer. 
DILBERT 
DOG BER. T CONSULT5 

WHAT ARE
MY
HER.E'S MY REPORT 
YOU
FEE IS
FULL OF OBVIOUS 

RECOM­
$90,000.
GE.NE.RALITIE5. 

MENDING? 
E 
8 
i 
i 

SCOTT ADAMS 
I RECOMMEND 
TELLING 
EVERYONE IT 
WAS FREE. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A free press can ofcourse be good or bad, but. most certainly, without freedom it will never be anything but bad ... Freedom is nothing else but a chance to be better, whereas enslavement is a certainty ofthe worse. " 
Albert Camus author 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 25, 2000 
Jumping into ND social scene, gender relations 
\mong th1: misf'ortun('s tl1at !Jefdl me in my "summer from hell" that I didn't mention in my last column was the ending of a six-month relationshiµ with my girlfriend. My friend Amy describes the reason for our breakup as "overkill"; we had a)ong-distancc relationship in which we couldn't stand bring apart, but it didn't ri>ally work well when we werr cioS(), either. I eventually got over it, though,.and rubbed my hands with eager anticipation over Hw prospect of joining the Notrr Uame social scene for the first time as an unattached guy. 
God, ,im 1disappointed. 

ThP ND social scene, [ soon figured out. consists pre­dominantly of getting plastered and "hooking up." Now. although I havP a solid idea, I'm not quite sure what the latter mPans, chiefly because [ hmen't managed to achicwc it yd. This sticks me in tlw embarrassing posi­tion of having to -gulp! -ask people for advice. 
What normally happens is that I try Lo solicit sugges­tions from someone rational (read as: "sober"), and invariably, I'm interrupted by a guy who has apparent­ly consumed his own weight in Natty Light. 
"Duuuuude," ho thoughtfully begins, "just compli­m!mt her shoes and you'rn in, maaaaan." As 1write, "Compliment shoes," in a pocket notebook, someone else with a blood alco­hol'content of somowhern around 0.7 offers a dissenting opinion: "No way, maaaaan, say you like her hair, duuuuudo." And these two gentlemen argue amongst themselves until they nearly come to blows, but soon realize that if they do nngage in fisticuffs, they'll have to put down their beers. So they just agrcn ~o disagrne and tlwn toast to their renewed friendship. 
It took me almost 15 minutes to realize that even the bHst advice in this area is inherentlv useless and that. I have no choice but to swallow mv foars and just talk to ~omen. Sounds easy, and for many guys it is, but I h,~ve a rather chronic and acute condition of "foot-in-mouth syndrome." l'vlen the world over recognize this as the occasional action of saying or doing some­thing remarkably and irrevocably stupid in the presence ol' a female. For me, it setims, it's not a question of if; but of vvhen and how severe. Add this to a recent bout or acne the likes of which I haven't experienced since I was 14 (siwe clearnd up, thanks to approximately six gallons of l\oxzema), and I can sometimes feel like a rngi·ng geyser of uncoolness. 
It's just as well, anyway, because I find the whole concept of hook-ups repugnant and a cheap substitute for a meaningful and truly satisfying rela­tionship. A cynic would attest here that I only feel comfortable saying that bPcause I'm not getting any, which is partially true. A hookup would be inli­nitely better than the giant sack ofjack-squat I have now, but I'd much rather have some kind of lasting bond. · 
Fat chance. 

All one has to do to discover the pitiful state of gender relations in the bub­ble is look at the polls and message boards on ndtoday.com, check out Tyler Whatdy's cartoon on Sept. 13, which equates dating at ND to prehistoric mating rituals or listen to angry guys lob chauvinistic slurs like "ice queens" to rationalize their own strikeouts. 
But I'm extending the blame too far if I impugn my environment for my dismal results. After all, Monk Malloy isn't the one supplying me tips ("Duuuuude. say you like her chastity, maaaaan"). The clearest reason of why I'm having no luck is because, well, I'm not very good at any ofthis. 
Analyzing my failures is an easy task. ·when 1see a female that renders me absolutely thunderstruck, I realize that she is attractive, and assume that she is intelligent and charming -and therefore wholly uninterested in a doofus like me whose best pickup line is, "Wanna look at my ... column?" {It's not as successful as you might think). And ifl do manage to survive the small talk without blowing it, I freeze up when it comes time to ask for the all-important phone number. This is because asking for her digits is practi­cally an overt statement that,J find her attractive, so instead of summoning some charm and bravado, I usually cram my foot in my mouth, whether it wants in or not. 
Over the years. a lot of people have compared me to D-Bob from Rudy. Ile found sonrnbody here, so I guess thafs reason to be optimistic. Now. if you'll excusn nm, I'm gonna grab my notebook and my Noxzema and head out on the scene. By tllf' way ... nice shoes. And I love what you've done with your hair. 
Mike Marchand is an oJJcampus senior English major and a Cancer who enjoys candlelit dinners and long walks on the beach. He would like to thank Arny, Megan, Noelle and M.B. for lheir continued support. He also wants to r<'mind any females who are somewhat interested in dating him that he has an unoccupied ticket in the selJenth row to see "Weird Al" Yankouic at the Morris Center on Oct. 1. His e-mail address is Marchand3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

OTHL BSERVER page J1 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Debating The Observer's independence 
Former editor defends journalistic freedom 
As a rormer Obsener nditorial board member, I may not be the right person to respond to The Observer indopcndence issue. Nevertheless, I write to address 1. the importance of maintaining Tho Observer's indepen­dent status; and 2. the misconception that The Observer has abused its independent status in recent years. 
First, I do nut think that any­one can df'ny I.he importance of an independent news­paper in a community to promote knowledge and discussion about sali~nt issues. As Observer Editor in Chief Mike Connolly explained at the recent Student SHnate meeting, in order for the ND community to believe the news reported about the administration, The Observer must have the independence to question that same administra­tion. Take away the independent status of the paper and you take away its credibili­ty and its worth to the cornmunitv. 
Secondly, it is a complete misconception to state that The Observer has abused its independent status by reporting on the gay rights issues in the past years, especially when that criticism sterns from the argument that gay rights issues affect too small a percentage of the commu­nity to merit significant news space. If the relevancy of news articles was decided based on numbers, progress would never occur. Just because a minority of the community feels the direct effects of the gay rights issues does not mean it is not a salient issue that all people should have an oppor­tunity to read about. The Observer editorial board does not create the news; it reports the news as it hap­pens. Doing so does not abuse its independent status or cloud its objec­tive view. 
In a time when criticism of media seusationalism is abundant, let us not be too quick to judge any.publication that reports on controversial issues. As the threat of the loss of its indepen­dent status looms closer, I challenge thn student body to express to the administration the importance of maintaining this independent status. Have faith in vour current editorial board that they will continue to report the issues that affect daily life on cam­pus. And when they fail to do so, cher­ish the freedom to take your com­plaints directly to the student editors making their own independent deci­sions. 
Sarah Dylag Class of'99 September 22, 2000 

Alumnus criticizes bias, policy 
ln regard to the possibility of the University revoking the independent status of The Observer, i would like to make sev­eral points. 
First, no newspaper is unbiased. Many do a good job at rooting out bias, but complete neutrality is impossible due to the unavoid­able reality that a newspaper has only so much space to print news. Even without regard to the slant of the stories that will 
be included, the fact that there is limited 
space forces editors to decide which 
stories and topics will be extensively 
covered, and which will be covc. red 
minimally or not at all. A perfect 
example is the disproportionate amount of coverage GLND/SMC 
and similar organizations have 
received from The Observer 
over the past few years. The 
question is not whether the 
newspaper is to have a bias. 
The question is who will con­
trol the bias. The University 
has apparently decided that it 
has had enough and that it 
would rather be in charge. If 
they fund the paper, then they 
have every right to do that. If the University doesn't fund the paper, then The Observer will 

just have to alter their produc­tion and distribution if they wish to continue to exist independent­
ly. 
Secondly, The Observer is consis­tently and unabashedly biased. I am referring to the news articles and edi­
torials. The Observer does a decent job of including all sides of issues in the "let­ters to the editor." But with regard to issues dealing with Catholic teachings, The Observer often crosses the line into Protestantism. I am not a holier-than-thou Catholic, either. I am an agnostic, but it doesn't take faith to recognize heresy, just a correctly reasoning mind. It is a natural, human reaction for the editors to be suspi­cious and critical of the University for revoking their independence. But for Mr. Connolly to imply that The Observer is somehow necessarily unbiased simply because it is independent is disingenuous at best. 
Thirdly, to claim that "journalistic credi­bility" would be damaged might be taking yourselves a bit too seriously. The Observer is a campus newspaper. It is a tool to inform students of campus events and issues. It's not the Washington Post. Most people read the sports, the cartoons and maybe the editorials. In my four years at ND I never had a friend say to me anything remotely resembling, "Hey, did you see that article about the Student Senate's resolu­tion on the University Board of Directors' resolution on on-campus meetings of non­University sponsored organizations? How gripping!" 
Ask yourself this before criticizing the University: why should any institution will­fully perpetuate a publication that is con­sistently critical of its policies; moreover, in this case, why should an institution with a formal Catholic affiliation perpetuate a publication that often espouses opinions that are in direct conflict with papal dic­tates and Church doctrine'! 
Eliot M. Held Class of'97 September 23, 2000 


O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Monday, September, 25, 2000 
=====----================--=-=-----=--=-----=-----=--=--=--=--=----=~=======-===---=-=---==----==----·-=·=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=-=-:==========================:::::=-=========================== 
St. Ed's embraces class and dignity 
By RYAN MOODIE 
Scene Writer 
NP.stlNI in a small niclrn of' campus and not quill' 011 any quad, St. Edward's Hall litPral­ly sits in the shadow of the dome. Named in honor uJ' SL. Edward King of Englancl. Father Sorin's patron saint, St. Ed's is tho olc.!Pst dorm on cam­pus, construded iII l 882. Nnarlv a ecntury after it optrnntl its doors to students, tlw dorm n<'arlv closed them l'on~ver. · 
Twenty years ago, in 1980. the entire l'ourth floor and much of tlw wing was g11ttPd by tirn. University oflicials had to d11cide whether to rr•mod1d th c d o rm o r d t\ m o I is h it in favor of' a newPr building. In honor or St. Edward's llall's long history. thP University rebuilt the dorm in which Knute Hor,kne received his first communion. 
Today, St. Edward's Hall boasts a community of' just ovnr 170 men. Father David Scheidler, tlrn rector in his sixth year at St. Ed's, believes that the small size is St. Ed's' greatest strength. 
"It's a great size for gelling to know nvcrybody." he said. "and whiln WP may not have Lim size or nurnbcrs of some of' tlw other dorms, tlw heart tlrn guys put into living here means wn definitely makl' our mark." 
Tho character and communi­ty ol' St. Fd's is a quality that nach rnsidnnt considers to be a del'ining quality of why Im chooses to livr\ there. From thn seniors down lo the freshmen, each person is a part ol' a closEi-knit identity, this extends even to the University cleaning staff. 
Debbie Clark and Larry Corkins are as much a part of the daily life of Stedsmen as video games and class. Sections and floors will often times go out of their way to make sure that a mess is not left after a football game for Dr.bhie and Larry, 
Both ol' them am friends and, indeed, almost family to many of the men or St. Ed's. Debbie likes the idea that she is the hall mother. "I have 170 some­
thing sons here -!.ht\ sons I never had." she said. 
"I feel morf' like tlwir liig brother," Larry chimPd in. Both agree that tlwir fuvoriln part of working wher(, they do is thnt each rPsid1'nt who Llwy meet has a di!Ternnt story. They lovt) to takr1 Llwir brnaks talking to diffrn•nt Stndsninn from various parts ol' tlw cou n­try. Each 1rnrson, liH'Y say, and each room has a wlwlti dilT(•r­ent background and a uniqut' personality. 
This st,ntimenl is 1·chemd (lll each floor of St. Edward·s 11 a II. Mikl1 Carof'ola, a junior on tlrn third floor and captain or Llic dorm's football tl'am, bt>liPvPs that the grnatest part aboul the• building known as Sl. l:dwanl's llall is that there, isn't a cooki<' cuttt~r atmosplwrn. 

"Each room has its own character," lw said. ··and nol just nvery room. EvPry stiction and Pvery !'lour is llw sa11H• way." 
In fact, one will not find many duplicate rooms in St. Ed's. Each floor has difTcrinl-{ ceiling heights: tlrn second floor has the highPst at 1:1 l't•t•l while the first l'loor has tl1n lowest at around<) 1/2. 

The large room sizP plays a factor in choice of many Stedsmrm in their decisio11 Lil continually live in St. Ed ·s. Sophomore transfor C:oniy Tri was nicely surpris11d by this. 
"The rooms am a lo! bil-{gnr than I exp<1t:lecl." lw said. [A funny comment considnring Curey is in the smal!Pst rnom in the dorm. a first l'loor duu­ble.l 
Because of thP ampln rDotll size and height. Io l'ts Ii av<~ become a mainstav in Lh1~ majority of the rooins. Ovnr time, they have evolvPCI from being a simple means of" rais­ing a bed to work or art. playnd out 10 feet above thn floor: tlw largest such being a six man bed system which dominat!~s the ceiling of' a fourth l'loor room. 
In addition to bncls, now tPln­visions, stereos, drnss!~rs. desks and old luggage am lwld in suspended animation whil<' leaving every inch ol' floor space available to deep couch­es and luxurious rucli1wrs. 
l.ol'ls also 111ak(• space ;11·ailalile l'or l11rgP rlorrn gatherings, ,lll t'.V('llt for wliich third and fourth !Joor l'rnslI­
11 I !' tl Cf LI a cl S 
an· known. 
C ll Ill t! l1(1lll<' f'ooL­IJ it 11 IV(\ pk ­t•11cls. loud 111usic arid In rgP groups 
lll"(' a COlll­
lllOll sight 1111 
lht> uppPI' 
floors of St. 
I:ti's. 
"You'll not find a group or guys who kllll\\' how to hd\'(' run and party like the• guys hort!," said Carn['ola. 
In addition 
t.o Lh P 
utnrnspherc, St. l~cl's is also a dorm or tradiliun. Tilt• third rlo()r l{A, 
.I u d s o n 
1'(•11lo11 said. ··11 ·s rt'laxnd l1t•n•. We d1i11'1 h,IV(' LO liv<' up to an 
i Ill a g (~ . \ \' t' ' r P _j LIS t L1id bat'k, classy gP11­tl(•11wn." 
In truth, tlH· tradi­tions at St. Fcl's ,He alJout class ancl dignity. Co-pnisidcnts 1\111ir Tahmass(ibi, Adam Buss. ;1 nd l)nrrick Bravo have pla1111Pd to expand thP trndi­tional t'Clebration ol' Fouml(ir's I lay 
"\Ve' rn 11atn!1d in honor of l·atlu)r Sorin's patron saint. so \1 t' likP to celebrate l;ound!!r's \\'t!Pk." 
This ynar. in addition lo the all-dorm l'ormal mass. St. Ed's 

What Would Jesus Do 
in college? 
This is not an easy question to answer. And there is proba­bly no way 
to tell for sure where .Jesus \Vould go to col­lege. But 
we can try to ligurn it out. I don't imagine 
that Jpsus was vnry snooty, so I don't think he would have gonn to an Ivy League school. 


There are probaLly sonw community colleges tlrnl could really use his help to improvti their curriculum or incrnasP funding. I am sure people would want to givn 1110111:y to the college whnrn Jesus attnncl­ed. I don't think he would w11111 to bring this kind of' al1P11tio11 l.o himself, he might havn t.o rhang1\ his name to ,IPSS<', s1, ;is nol to ups<~l ihP natural 01·dn of things. 
So would .Jesus alttind a school where h(~ was most needed, or would lw go to school where he was most loved'! I think it would b(i lianl Lo rnsisL going to a university v1 l1t•rn they had a big mural or 11w 011 their librarv, and a stat­LI(! or 1110 in the center or cam­lJLIS. 
So yns, Jpsus would probably go to l\otn, Dame. i\nd he · would livn in Knott Hall. I can d(·li11itPl_v sen him sporting one 1,1· tlwst> flashy orHng<' T-shirts. 
.\s rur sports. I don't thi11k he 111lldd lui 011 tlw f'ootliall Warn. 11(• prnlia.bly would11'1 ha\·n 1•111J11gli quicb. ll<' might lw in donn ultinmtn, i\ncl ror surt\ Im \11111ld tr·y out for Troop ND. Maylm hn vrnuld work on got­ting tlw rtiputation of" "Dancing .h•sus"'. 
will be hosting its SYR and planning othcr activities around it. 
The dorm also has the dis­tinction of bt\ing the first dorm to wnar kilts to a pep rally, whid1 has bt)comc a common sight. Fatlwr Scheidler claims it was a brainstorm from watching Bravoheart a week bef'ore the dorm pep rally three years ago. So, St. Ed's donned green and yellow kilts, and the 
whole dorm marched into the pep rally behind its bagpipe player. 
Traditions old and new at St. Ed's all reflect the inherent class of Notre Dame's oldest and perhaps most historic dorm. Freshman Adel Hanash summed up the St. Ed's experi­ence for each resident saying, "There is nothing more I could ask for in a dorm. Awesome people and awesome rooms." 

As for his clothes, I don't think he would fall into the Abercrombie groove. Of course he would wear a robe around everywhere. No, he would probably have a lot of hippie rlothing and Im would always wear sandals. 
Most people would probably say that fosus would major in Thnology, but I sne him morn as a Finance major. Jesus could be tlrn ll()X( wiz o!' Wall Stre(,t. 1 don't know what kind oJ' grades h11 would get, probably Bs. He son111s like a very social guy, and l can't picture him with his h11ad always buried in a book. 
We could dclinil!)ly use Jesus 
in the cafeteria. Everybody always loves when we have croissants, but we hardly ever have them. He could turn the bread into croissants every day! 
What other kind of things would Jesus do as a student? Would he help his buddies get good grades? Would he bring more sunny days here? The possibilities are endless. Jesus on campus would make every­(me's life beW~r in one way or another. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Ob.server. 

NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, September 25, 2000 BSERVER Notre Dame at Michigan State 

By TIM CASEY Assistant Sports Editor 
EAST IANSING, Mich. 
As he headed down the metal steps of the press conference trailer adjacent to the visitors' locker room at Spartan Stadium, after Notre Dame's 27-21 loss to Michigan state, Irish head coach Bob Davie looked confused and exhausted. 
He then made his way through a herd of reporters before seeing a familiar face. 
T.J. Duckett. 

Duckett and Davie, forever linked through the infamous Sports Illustrated article, shook hands, walked a few feet away from the crowd towards the field, stood side-by-side and placed their arms around each other's shoulders. For a l"ew minutes, Duckett, the rising star and Davie. the veteran oft-criticized coach. talked. About what, only they know. 
Flashback an hour earlier to one play and the tone of that conversation would have been completely different. 
With less than two minutes remaining and the Irish ahead 21-20, Michigan State was down to its final hurrah. On 4th and 10 from their own 32, freshman quarter­back Jeff Smoker dropped back. With linebacker Anthony Denman and corner­back Brock \'Villiams famong five Irish players! r.oming on a full blitz. Smoker looked to his right and fired a completion to Herb Haygood on a slant pattern. 
One play with less than 2 minutes remaining determines fourth consecutive loss to Michigan State 
Haygood beat Tony Driver in man cover­age and when safety Ron Israel slipped, the junior flanker ran free into the end­zone. 
Moments later, for the fourth-straight season, Michigan State beat Notre Dame, 
27-21. 

"We were talking about how we're going to try to run the clock out," offen­sive coordinator Kevin Rogers said. 
Added Davie: "You replay that (4th and 
10) just over and over and over. And you just wish you could. do it again. You wish you could call something again." 
Did that one play define the entire game? Of course not. But a stop would have given Notre Dame a realistic chance at a BCS bowl. Now? Irish fans are once again debating who the next head coach will be. Blame Davie, the campus cliche, may be stronger than ever. 
Saturday provided enough subplots for any good debate. First, tho revolving quarterback duo of Gary Godsey and Matt LoVecchio. Thirteen davs aft.er Arnaz Battle suffered a broken left navicular bone in his left wrist, Godsey completed only 4-of-15 passes for 20 yards. And two series after he threw an interception mid­way through the third quarter, LoVecchio came in and completed a 42-yard toss to Javin Hunter near the goal line. 
On Sunday, Davie claimed the position was open for competition. 
"I think the way Matt Lovecchio fin­ished the game; not so much that he per­formed at such a high level, but just with our -offense, you feel like you could get back in the flow a little bit," Davie said. "He may have a bit of an advantage head­ing into this week." 
Let the controversy begin. And it starts with the predictability of a stagnant offense. Against Michigan State, Julius JonPs carried 26 times for 126 yards and two touchdowns, proving once again his value to the team. But take away Jones's 56•yard run in the first quarter, 20-yard run in the second quarter and LoVccchio's completion to Hunter and the Irish gained just 94 yards on the remain­ing 48 plays. Until LoVecchio's pass, the Irish ran the ball on 15 consecutive first do-wns. 
"We tried the last two weeks to play it in a box to a degree, try not to make mis­takes on offense," Davie said. "I think it was the right plan. But for us to move for­ward, I think we've got to open it up a lit­tle bit more in a way that our staff is com­fortable. I don't know if we necessarily have to throw it a lot more but we have to do different things." 
What they do not have to change is the defense. For the fourth straight game, the unit kept the Irish hopes alive. They sacked Smoker six times, picked off a pass [Anthony Weaver] and recovered a fumble [Darrell Campbell] in the fourth quarter and gave the offense good field position. Despite yielding 141 rushing yards to Duckett, the unit limited the Spartans to just 3.3 average yards per carry and Smoker completed 12-of-24 passes for 181 yards. 
But mention the 2000 Michigan State game, and fair or not, they will be remembered for one 68-yard play. 
Two weeks after questioning them­selves for playing in a soft zone on 3rd and 10 in the overtime against Nebraska, the staff decided an all-out blitz would faze the true freshman quarterback. Plus, it was the same defense called on the forced fumble. 
The only difference was the result. 
"I was thinking it was going to be a happy bus trip home," defensive end Anthony Weaver said. "This is like a bad nightmare." 

player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
T.J Duckett  "One play doesn't ever mean  97 return yards by Irish  
The sophomore tailback gained 142 ofl\,fichigan State's 229 rushing yards and made two  a game. That's the bottom line. " Greg Mattison  special teams Notre Dame's special teams, which have carried the offense  
catches to lead the Spartan offensive arsenal.  Irish defensive coordinator  in past games returned only 97 yards in I 8 plays.  

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 25, 2000 
report card 
C-
quarterbacks: Godsey showed his limita­tions. Wh<'n ho's nol accurate. tlw Irish struggle. LoVPr.rhio was not rm1rh bPtWr. And lw's a true frnsh­man. 
B-
tunning backs: With Battle• out. Jonns is 
the only "gam<'brPakPr" on offense. 
But ckspill· two long gains, he only managc•d JO yards on Uw othnr 24 carrit•s. IIP is tlw running attack.' 
C 
receivers: Ilunter ran a nice routn on th1• 4<,-yard rl"<'!'ption and rarne back to an un<lPrthrown hall. 'Where W<'l'C 
ttw tight Pncls" 

C 
offensive tine: Jonns gainnd the bulk 
of his vards oul.;id,i thP tackles. Tho 
linP dt;•wrV(!S somP of' t.lw blarnP l'or 
th(' o!T(•nsivc wo(\S. 

A-
defensive line: WeavPr play(~d arguably tht> besl ganH\ of' his carPPr. Holwrts had his fourth sack in as 
many games. Smoker was prnssurnd 
all day. 

A-
linebackers: Denman, the team·s lead­ing ta(·klPr in 2000, had a sack and contmued his dominance. Harrison 
8-
and Boinrnn an\ third and fourth on tlw l11,u11 in tackles. defensive backs: DPspit(' the obvious mistakP on 4th and I0. Driver played well. \Vallon seems r.oml'ortabln. 
SmokPr rnmpll'led only half of his 
pass attl'mpts. 

C 
special teams: l\lissPd li1>!d goal. nwn­taf mistah by Giwns at the l'nd. no 
signifirnnt yardag1\ on kick returns. htr diffN1'nt than last two WP<'ks. 
C-
coaching: Hun on first down, minimal or no gain on second. third and long, punt. Tlw gam<' plan is very pn•­
dictabh•. Full blitz on 4th and 10 was the wrong mil. overall: EvPn if' tlw Irish won. 
this ganw oxposcd many 
wnaknnss('S. Tlw oft'PnsP is 
Jones and who? Can'l rely on
2.47 

d1:fPnsP and sp(!cial teams to win games. 
adding up the nulllbers 
number of passes thrown to 
o 
Notre Dame tight ends. 

3 
number of Irish quarter­
backs used against the 
Spartans (Godsey, 
Lovecchio and Givens) 
Yarcls gained by Haygood on the 
6 8 
final MSU touchdown. 

15 
number of rushes on 
first down before 
LoVecchio's completion 
lo Givens. 
number of carries by Irish run­
2 

ning backs not namecl Julius Jones. 
number of sacks by the
6 Irish defense. consecutive losses to MSU, the 
4 

most since Miami (1983-B7) and Air Force (1982-85). 
consecutive losses away from Notre Dame Stadium, includ­ing the 1999 Gator Bowl. 
INSIGHT 

EAST LANSING, MICII. 

Supporters and critics alike of Irish football have an easy time getting away with blaming Notrn Dame's drfense for many of the mistakes leading to the 
team's loss Saturdav to Michiga~ State. 
The evidence is glaring enough to make !'ans wince: 
Case 1: The defense's inabili­


ty to blitz the 
Kerry Smith

Spartans effec­
tively when it rounted. Sports Editor 
With a 21-20 edge and 1 :48 Ir.ft on the fourth-quarter clock, the Irish let Spartan freshman quarter­back JelT Smoker conner:i with Herb Jlaygood who rushed 68 yards untouched for the winning score. Irish free safety Tony Driver missed his coverage and was a good l'our · feet away from I Iayguod when the widn receiver blew by him. Strong sal'cty Ron Israel should have played deeper on such a key play and was l'orr.ed to engage in a fruitless chase down the field as Haygood flew into tlrn end zone. 
Case 2: On a key MSU 3-10 drive in the second quarter. inside linebarker Anthony Denman made a huge play, virtually (insuring a Spartan punt by sacking Smokrr. but a latn hit by out­side linebacker Hocky 13oiman kept MSU's drive alive. 
What should haVf, been Notre llamn's ball turned into a 50-yard Spartan field goal. 
Cas11 3: Hepcated mistackl11s by the Irish throughout the game handed thr, Spartans extra yards that kept 
their drives going. 
Spartan tailback T.J. Duckett gave the Irish trouble all day, dragging tacklers for yards before he was finally brought down. Small plays added up to big things for MSU in the end. 
But as easy as it is to point out the defense's failures Saturday, it is even easier to credit them for putting Notre Dame in the position they are in -a team with two wins over ranked teams and two miar-misses; a Learn that has risen to the challenges of the nation's toughest schedule and injured key players. 

The truth is the Notre Dame defense deserves much morn than its team has given it. It has played over ilc; head and is responsible for keep­ing Notre Dame in every single game it has entered until the final seconds. The defense has worn its heart on its sleeve since the opPning kickoff against Texas A&M, pouring every ounce of energy into their job and leaving it all on the field. 
Case 1: Despite three pass interfer­tmcr~ calls against the Aggies, the defense stepped it up when the game was on the line. making kt>y goal line stands when the score was close and swinging momentum the way of the Irish. 
Case 2: The defensive line rnf'used to be intimidated when No. 1 Nebraska came to town. limiting the Cornhusker offonse to 27 4 yards. n<'arly hall' lhc gain Nebraska has rnadr, this season against other oppo­n<'nts The defense compensated for quarterback Arnaz Batlle's 3-15 passing rerord and the offense's 180 yards rushing. 
Case 3: Thr. defense kept l-leisman­candidatc Drew Brees in check with one interception retunwd l'or a 
touchdown and one lr1ss pass com­
pletion than his Irish counterpart. 
The deJ'cnsC' turned what could havr. 
been an aerial disaster into a run­
ning gamn that they could control. 
Case 4: Byan Hoberts' entrance into the starting line-up as a replace­ment for injured captain Grant Irons has been nothing but a positive for the defense. Roberts' tcnar.ity lands him as the only Irish dr,f'ender to tally a quarterback sack in each game this season. While losing a key player on offense has proven to be a headache, the defense has not missed a beat with Roberts on the field. 
Sure, the defense has had its less than stellar moments -they have missed tackles, blown coverage and cost the Irish yards with penalties caused by mental mistakes. But they have pulled a lackluster offense through a tough four-week stretch that would bfl a whole lot worse had the defense matched the perfor­mance of the offense. 
The next time someone wants to criticize the Notre Damn dofense, he or she should remr.mber that it is that very same defense that has Notre Dame !'ans holding the Irish to the high standards they are. It is that dcfonse that, unlike last year. has the Irish believing they are not beat before tlrny step out onto lhe field. And it is that same defonse that timP and again has turned heart-breaking possibilities into lrnart-stoppi ng plays that have proven key for Irish suc­cess. 
It is fine to bP <Titir.al. Just make sure to be fair. 
The opinions expressed in this col~ umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserl!er. 
-· 

Monday, September 25, 2000 The Observer. . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish need to answer quarterback question 
back Julius Jones to run 1.he Ry KATHLEEN O'BRIEN ball up the middle on first and As,ocwe Spuns E.ditor scrond downs, leaving the 
quarterback of the moment to The NotrP Dame football attempt third-and-long more -Warn is in the middlo of an often than not. idnntity crisis_ ''Not only did wr, not throw it 
,\ quartcrb,tck crisis. to be on first down. we didn't have more specific. Against gn1at productivity on first Mil'higan State, Bob DaviP down. whirh led to those scPrned to blindlv draw names third-and-longs," Davie said. out or a hat a,;d throw the "We got in way tuo many 
(unlluckv sclcruw in to lead third-and-long situ,tlions.... tlw Irish 001T1ms1·. or lack therP­Looking bhck, we maybP of'. In tlw second half. ~otTP should have tril'd to rreatc DamP. us,'d thn:1\ quarh,rbu,cks more big plays offensiYely You -,.. 
Carv Godsev. Matt know, do some things maybe LoVPcchi,; nn<l !Ja,id. Givens -on first down to trv to loosen 111 an alti•nrnling fashion tl,at them up.'' · IPl"t !'ans playing "Cw,ss ·who'1" That's a good realization. 
"W1, had µla n n<'d coming in but it came a day too late. that ir W(' got boggr>d dnwn Even Davir, admilll-,d that wr,'d go with Matt'. and we something has to give. 
wt>rn bogged down." Davie "We really have Lo evaluate 
said to 1\xplain his dPrision the quarterback situation," Nut. even a veteran quartcr­Davie said in a press c·onfor­bac k. whir.h t.lH'. Irish lar:k. ence Sundav. "That's no secret. rould play up to his potential bemuse it's putting the hand­wlrnn he doesn't know if be'll cuffs on us a little bit right hP in the g-amr to tak0 thr nl'xt now with the big guy back snap. Whilt~ iL may have been there. that doesn't cm ate nPcPssnry to rnplacc Godsey, many things running the ball." who f'inislwd the gamP 4-for­!leading i.nio an op<'n datP-, 
l :i in pass attumpts with one the quarterback racr. is wide in1.f'rf'eption. tlw Irish nePdf\d op1rn britween Godsey, a little morP nmtinuity_ Thrv LoVeuhio and l'reshmen r:ouldn't drvP!op that whc~ Carlyle Holiday and Jarrd LoVPtT.hio playi:d the first ,rnd Clark. spc.ond downs. thPn lost his "We're just going to battlr 
spot to {;odsey on each third an d do what's best for th r. down. team," Godsey said. Davie's rationale for putting Th~ Irish arr, hoping llir 
LoV!'cchio in was that the true implausible will happen ­f'rnshnrnn could run tlw option that BaitlP .will b<~ back sooner bC'llrr than GodsPv. Ilis reason than Pxpcctl'd. Da viP srrid f1Jr pulling him ()lit on third Saturday that Battle is ahead dtJ\vn v\·as that Codscy ·was of sch1,dule in his rPcoverv, supposPdly a bPttrr pass11r_ but claril'ied that lw is still o~t Yf't it was LoVPcchio vvho com­indefinitely. leaving Davie with pIi> LP d th P 4 :-r-yard pass 1 o tough d<:cisions to makP. .Javin l!untPr. good for morP "Thr first thing is that if 
than twicr as many yards as !\rnaz is out tlw rPst of the all (;odsP.•(s completions put season. then we probably do togPthcr. have lo get two l'rnshmr,n Hven worsP, the quarter·­quarterbacks ready,'' Davie ba<·ks lost any drnnn1 ol' gain­said. "II' we think Arnaz mav 
ing ronf'idcfH'<' with Notre be back at sonrn point, we'r~ Dame's offensive g,lmP. plan better off to give every rep to that is as cautious as someone that one freshman." 
trying to walk through a mim~­Hegardlr.ss of what the deci­l'ield and as pn•dictabln as th<1 sion is. Davie nePds to make it mailman. Against the in a hurry. The Irish need an Spartans, the Irish ran the ball offense, one thP roaches have 
I:i consP<:utive times on l'irsl enough confidence in to call down at onP point. On almost aggressive plays, and they 1\V1\ry series. tlw Irish s<mt tail-ne1ed it in a hurry. 
scoring summary & stats 



AP poll 

scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
team record points Michigan State 0 10 10 7 27 7 0 0 14 21
1 Nebraska 3-0 1,743 Notre Dame 2 Florida State 4-0 t732 team statistics MSU ND 3 Florida 4·0 1;603 
first downs 19 84 Virginia Tech 3-0 1,491 
rushes-yards 50-167 37-149
5 Kansas State 4-0 1;434 
passing yards 181 63
6 Washington 3·0 1,426 
comp-att-int 12-24·1 5· 16·1 
7 Clemson 4-0 1,223 
punt returns-yds 2·22 2-13
8 USC 3-0 1}181 9 Michigan 3·1 t;J60 kickoff returns-yds 4-79 5-84 10 Miami (Fla.) 2-1 1,,079 punts-avg. yards 5-39.8 6-44.0 
11 Tennessee 2·1 .1,043. fumbles-lost 3-1 O·O 12 Ohio State 4-0 995 penalties-yards 8-72 6-50 13 Texas 2·1 747 
lime qfpossession 34:17 25:43 
14 Oklahoma 3·0 740 
individual statistics
15 UCLA 3-1 71.7 
passing

16 TCU 3·0 6.40 
MSU -Smoker 12·24·1-181
17 Wisconsin 3-1 594 
ND -Godsey 4-15·1-20, Lovecchio 1-1-0·43
18 Michigan State 3-0 583 
19 Auburn 4-0 545 rushing 20 Oregon 3·1 457 MSU -Duckett 26·141, McCoy 2·21, Moss 4·11. Dortch 2-9. 21 So. Mississippi 2-1 418 Flowers 1·9, Smoker 15·(·24) 22 Purdue 3·1 414 N/J -Jones 26-126, Lovecchio 4-21, Getherall 2·6, Givens 1·2, 23 South Carolina 4-0 291 Fisher 1-(-1), Lopienski 1-(-1), Godsey 2·(·1) 24 Illinois 3-1 268 receiuing 25 Georgia 2·1 199 
!HSU -HaygoOd 3-92. Baker 2-28, Richardson 2-26, Duckett 2· 12, Waters 1-17, Wilson MO, Flowers 1·H)
other teams receil•ing votes: NOTRE 
NU -Hunter 2·57, Givens 1-8, Murray 1-6, Jones 1·(-8)
DAME 172, Air Poree 22, No. CarolincrSt. 
Leading tacklers fl, Mississippi 15, Pittsbu.rghfi'5,'ATiiona 

.fl.fSU -Shaw 11, Wright 7. Thornhill 6, Guess 5, Bryan 4, Sayler 4
St. 13. Arkansas 13, East Carolina 7, 
ND -Driver 11, Denman 9, Williams B, Walton 5, Harrison 5, Legree 5, Weaver 4, Roberts 4, Israel 4, Earl 4, Boiman 3 
ESPN/USA Today poll 
scoriI_ig 

summary team rtli:6rd point$ 1st 1 Nelfraska 3·0 1,455 NI! -6:09 . 2 tc1te 4•0 li424 
Murray 6·yd. pass from 3" 4~0 1,346 Godsey 
4 VirQl11ia Tee.Ii: . 3·0 1,274
Setta kick, 7·0 

s ~.!.~!,t~I~!e 4~o · . J,233 
6 W1shingto11 3~0 ··1;135
2nd 

1 use.. a~o 989 
MSl! -7:53 

& ••!} V 973
Duckett 6-yd. run 

g a~l > 964
Schaefer kick, 7· 7 MS/I -1:29 10 Obfn Stale · 4•0 Schaefer 50-yd. FG. 10·7 
\.,,i939 

11:.,.12....!....:.:.:.e Je.n.i...n.·•··.·.e.)~~e.·.>.'.? : . . 2.t.1.> ,.. 
.. Ml~(nl;{Fliq •... 'Ni" '2;1t· 774 
..
13 Texas . 2-1' &39
3rd 
_ 
· t1I ... w.1~~~~~1~ .: '<"' .;. iii},, •.•.•• a~t>. 6.10 
MSll-5:42 

15 Mllifligan.State .·· · "' · 3·0) '609 
Schaefer 36-~d. FG, 17-6 

16 Oklahoma 3~0 .552
WSl/-2:23 

Wilson 10-yd. pass from ·.tr ,YGM ~:1: )~~1 Smohr 11F lCU 3;0 .. . 509 
Schaefer kick. 20-7 

19 Purdue 3-1 . .424 
20 . A~iui~ ... L 4..Q( )387 
4th 21 S(H MlsSl$$ippl 2~1 ·· . 356 22 1moots 3-1 229 
1\1/J • 14:36 

Jones 2-yd. run ·• 23 soutii Caroli11a 4•0 .J!l18 Setta kick. 20·14 24 Georgia 2-f . 217 NI! -7:59 
25. Oregon H · 183 
Jories 2-yd. run Selta kick. 21-20 
NIJ -1:58 

&ther tel~;·,.;;;;;ini~bt~;:•iloniiiDAME:....: 
Haygood 68-yd. pass from Smoker 6'#, :'1r~~~~••tt·/Vo. ~'ffOli1fJSt.,.J6, 
Schaefer kick, 27-21 ...$:i'$s:isstpptSt;:JJ, t'6tq,ro.doS(!;:ts>ie~.«$A&tl1">· 2fi: Stunjord 24; /:>/.ttsburgh .u, MisSissippi 20. · 
O
THE Notre Dame at Michigan State BSERVER Monday, September 25, 2000 


Defensive tackle B.J. Scott (93) celebrates after sacking Michigan State's Jeff Smoker. The Irish had a season-high six sacks Saturday. 
SPARTAN UPRISING 
The Irish faced an uphill battle Saturday as they fell to the Spartans of Michigan State 27-21 
on the road. Notre Dame scored early in the first quarter. but Michigan State's oITense took control midway through the game with a 20-7 lead. The Irish rallied late, but could not hang on to a one-point lead when the Spartans scored the winning touchdown with 1 :48 remaining in the fourth quarter. The loss is Notre Dame's fourth consecutive to Michigan State. 
. 
photos by 

ERNESTO LACAYO 



Monday, September 25, 2000 
page 13 
It's an indian summer for fall TV 
Bismol and th,~ Tums.,. said I· ilPs." 
By DAVID BAUDER 
Preston Bnckrnan, 1•:-,;pc·11tivn vir:r, Simpsons" and Associated Press Television Writer 
president of' strategic program­"Malcolm in the ming at Fox. !\lidcll<~." NEWYOHK ,\t the urging of' ABC. CllS and NBC: is also cr1v(•r­
It's late Septmnlmr. The air is Fox, Nielsen Media lfosearl'h i11g tilf' · lrnsnball crisper, footballs are flying and pushed the omcial starting claw playoffs, which has after months of reruns. tP!evi­of' tlw new TV stHt~Dn bal'k two p r <' , <' 11 t e d sion viewers am finally reward­wPeks to Oct. 2. Si ncP NBC is '"l'rovidPn1·1;'' from ed with new shows and n~turn­dominating primn-t.inw now starting until (kt. 20 ing favuritcs. with the Olympics, tlil'ir rivals a11d "Frasi1'r" until 
Well. at least two out. of' tlrn felt it would givP NBC an unfair (h'L 24. three an' true this vear. head start for ratings brngg'ing Vic1w1~rs ma~· not hill is arriving alittl(i law in rights l'or the season. lw that conlused 
TV land. And bPtwren tlrn \Vith no moa11ingf'ul itJCt'nlive al)()ul NBC's sclwrl­Olympics, baseball and presi­to r.ompc~tc uguinst the uf<,, siiH'.ti it is able to dential debates. television oxec­Olympics, most 1rnt\1·orks havn p1·omot1i its pro­utivPs ;irp wond1,ring i[' viPWl!rs held bal'k their 111•v1 11rnt<;rial. grams 1·Pl1'11tl,1ssly will have much of a chanc,~ this The c!xceptions are 11w mini-11Pt­during tlw Olympics. snason to set.Lin into old habits works (UPN, ttw \VB and l'ax Its riv,ils don't havt' and 1:rcatP 1ww ones. T\'), \\hich haVI' roll<'d out srn1w tl1at luxury. Fu°', l'"r "All the planns an· alignPd to new shows to Pnlin' h111•pd insUtlH'P .. is lrnying makr, us run for tlrn Popto-channel surfors. 111rn·<• hiIll.ward spac0 
Tlwn. just. wiwn and rndio ads tlw rwtworks wPr<' lwcausP it can't ruady to gt•t rolli11).( c11unl 011 manv vinw­on ()cl. 2. tlw first Prs du ring the presidPnlial dcbal!' Olympics w1·Pks, was scl1Pdulecl for ll1wkman said. Oct. :1 and tlw vice But in this post­prnsidPnlial dcbatP "Survivor" Pra. thr for two nights lal<1r. l'.i II T\' prPnlinrr 
Sonw quick shuf­s,,ason -an institu­fling ('llSU!)d: NllC's lion as old as tnhwi­prized Thursday sion its1,II' -may bn lwcoming SomP producers of 1ww pro­networks in September for new night li1H'up puslwd ,111 anachronism anyway. grams actually prnf'1•r to start material, just like cars are intro­
back its s1~aso11 prn­"Mon\ and morc1, tlw 1wt,-vorks anytinw but th1: f'all, since it's duced at a certain time," m ierns to Ocl. 12.. · ar<' moving Loward a ynar-round 
<!asier in autumn l'or tlwir shows Beckman said. "It's the time of The CBS hit. prngrnrn cf1,1·1dopnrnnt slrn tngy." to g11t lost in Llw arnlanche of the year when people are used "Judging ;\my." was said Bob 1:iood. senior vie<' prns­1ww things and lw ovrn·looked to seeing the goods that the net­
delay('(I i'Dr a Wt'Pk. idnnt at thl' advortisi11g I'irm bv vimvt•rs. works have. They are sensitive and so was 1\HC's Optinwclia lnll\l'lrntional. ·still. l~eckman isn't n'adv to to it. They're attuned to it." rww sit('olll starring Taki• tlw two TV s1•11satio11s of' 
gi\!• up Lhn old way of' d;ing With summer over and the GPena Dm·is. lhn past y11ar: ··survivor" 11as a things. nights getting longer, people Fox has t:l10s(111 Sllllllll('r Sf'l'il'S. starting in !al<' 
l•:v1!ll lhough the odds of a new naturally gravitate to spending not to 1:ovnr thn f\lay and climaxing in /\ugust.. !'all SPries becoming a hit are more time in front of the tube. debatPs. But sinC'<\ il "Who Wants lo Bt1 a Millionaire" 
long, they an\ historically better The television business is built 
is broadcasting d1d1ut1\cl in August ItJ9CJ and than shows that start al other around the announcement of a baseball playo!Ts didn't join 1\BCs rr-gular sdwd­tin)(~S of thn year, he said. new fall schedule each spring, and tlw World uln unlil tlw l'ollowing .January. Broadcasters t<'.IHI to save for and the resulting rush of adver­Series, SllllW or its Midsnason nlll of1.1•n Im a midsnason programs that they tisers to buy commercial time. most popular prn­l,1L111('hing pad l'or hits, su!'h as didn't think ,vern quite good Even though networks are slow­grams won't ap1war "l'rovidPn1•p" and ''Malcolm in cmough for Lim f'all srlrndule, he ly becoming more cognizant of with 1ww i,pisodi,s Llw Midd!(,_" Nt)lworks an· 11Jor<! said. keeping their audiences happy until Novn111b1'r, npl Lo try 11n11· shows al any "Tlwrn's a cycl1) to tlw seasons throughout the year, that struc­
including "The\-P"int in LhP ynar now. and the vicw(ffS still louk to the ture isn't likely to change. 



Friday 
-"Timecode," directed b.J! 
Mike Figgis, admission: $:...., 
.l\nnenburg Auditorium, Snite 
Museum, 5:30, p.m. 
~ The Language of Awareness: Steve Stockdale. Debartolo Hall, room 129, 
3:30 p.m. 
Saturday 
Sunday 


~ Domer Run 2000: $6 in advance, $7 day of 
-Sophomore Class Mass, presided by Fr. 
the race. Sl.epan Center, 17 a.m. 
Hesburgh, Holy Cross Hill, 4 p.m. · 
~ Irishpalooza, f'eaturinq: Clark,· Stillwell, 
-Ying Quartet, $3-10, Annenbert 
Wafj1elwuse, The Retreads: and DJ ()uanlwn, 
Audiloritim. 2 p.m.
North Quad, 5 p. m. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 25, 2000 
CROSS COUNTRY 

ND IDen and women do01inate invitational 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associ,11c Spons Ediio1 

Tlw Irish swPpl thP lop prizes at 1:riday's National Catholi(' Cross Counlry l11vit,lt.io11al, winning tl1(! U\tun and individ­ual nw,is for both tlw mPn and women. 
;\ trio of Notni Darm• ju11i(1rs finishf'd c111H-two-thrne in tlw varsity nwn's ract•. l .ukP Walson ran with dassmat.Ps Marc Striowski and Pat Conway during the lirst sPwrnl miles of tlw race. thPn µull,id out alwacl lo pick up llw titln in a liw-mile t.im,• of 24 minutns, 5(i soeonds. Striowski linislrnd a 11osP alwad of' Conway. both rrossing llw lirn~ in ::!5:19. 
"Ont•, two, Um•1i went vnry wnll," Notrri Damn men's cross country coac:h .Ion Piarw said. "All three of th~m1 are very rnpabln of running v,iry w1:ll. I'm especial­ly pll'ascd with Lhe improvement Pat Conwav hw, made." 
Froshnrnn David Allwrs and Brian Kerwin roumlnd out Notrn Dame's top fiw. placing 1. <)t11 and 21st overall. 
Tho Iri,;h totalml 4:3 poinb on tJie day, ('asily outdbtancing tlm nearest <'ompeti­tor Loyola {Chic:ago), which scored 103. It was Uw sixth straight time Notrn Dame came away with the championship, despitP losing two of' i1s top thnw nmn11rs 
from ll year ago. 

"Wn ran as a b'foup which was the most import.ant tl1ing," Wat<;on said. "We were actually hoping lo score a little bit lower, but a couple guys didn't have their best
-days." ThP wonwn farnd a slightly tougher task in winning their sixth cons<!cutivc champi­onship, as they were missing their top runrH•r .Inn I l,mdlcy, but managed to edge Loyola :-Q to :-W. "Coming in, I didn't know if' we could beat Loyola without Jpn lllandleyj in them." womc'n's cross country coach Tim Conndly said. "Our kids compPtnd well. It w,L'i likn a boxing match bntwnm1 us and Loyola." Frnshma11 Megan Johnson picknd up the slack in Ilandkiy's absmH'.e, winning Uie 5,(){)0-m1!tPr racn in a time of 18 rnin­ut11s, dght SPronds. "Wn just tried to stay in a pa('k, work wdl together and push each otlwr," Johnson said. "WP wantnd to win the rat:n, mid that was nur goal." Srmior Chrissv Kuensler finishnd fil'th overall l'or the ·Irish. freshman Hach el Endress took sevnnth. junior I lilary Burn placed ninth and sophomore Muffy Schmidt wound up 10th. 

DUFFY ARNOULTrThe Observer 

Freshman David Albers nears the finish line during Friday's National Catholic Cross Country Invitation. Albers finished fourth for the Irish and 19th overall. 
Overtiine 
continued from page 24 

The Belles will be able to look at this wmiknncl's gamo as a job wnll clone, hav­ing spm1t tlw wnek af'inr WNlnnsday's loss to Manchnstnr working on tlwir shooting. 
''Now that wn have! our Sl\cond co11fer­1mce win. I fop! likP this has giwn the team rnorP conlidnnr.11 in our abilitins," 
lrnw s1)11ior Laura Pauh)ll snid. 

Thn BP!les W<'l'I' ('onfic!Pnt 1·nough in tlrnir ability to win that tlwy put Tia Kapphahn in at forward at thn bngin­ning of' owrtinw play, whil<' f'rpshrnan backup Laura MPtzgPr saw her first. action in tlm nPl. MPtzgnr wm1t in at for­ward in the second half of tho loss to Dnl'auw. 
"I was glad to sr1c Laura g11t in," Artnak said. "She play(~d kccpPr in over­timn." 
Although thoir scoring output was low, the Bellns worn still happy with tlwir oflensivn p(fort. 
"We had an incrndibly high numbPr of shot'i against. Adrian," Muth said. "We just attar.kcd their goal from tho start ol' Uw game and couldn't gnl any nf our shol'i to fall. unfortunatnly." 
Saint Mary's came out of the Adrian game focling that thoy had avnngod the l -0 loss to Manchester oarlier in tlrn wcok. 
"There was an all-around sense of relief afkr this gamo," Muth said. "We were in a slump and our conlidencn wm; suffering coming in to this game. This victory really lifted our spiril'i and gave us a positive outlook going into one of our toughtest games of the season ,L'> wn play Calvin on Tuosday." 
The Belles pulled thnmsdves out of their scoring slump hy leaning on each other for support. 
'The whole t<)am rnal!y came together for this game," Muth said. "I w,L'i rPal!y proud of our intensity. Evnryorw played their hnart<; out. It W,Ls a tmtm effort." 
Muth and l'aulen want to sen the team use this rediscovernd conlidPncn and trntmwork to attack tlm n'st of' th() sea­son and maim it successf'ul. 
"We want to beat fWery ti•am r<\gard­lnss of p:cL'it experinnrns or pres1mt rank­ings," Paulcn said. "We played with skill and aggressiwness tlrn nntirc 90-plus minutes. Wn had to drive to get to every ball first and take it lo the nnt. That wa'i the diflcrcncc. We played together a<; a tnam, trusting in each other's abilitins and !mart. [We won] ber.ausn w1~ were united in showing the other team that we had the ability and talent to win." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 014 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refirnds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  That Pretty Place, Bed and  Babysitter: Looking for an ener- UNLEASH THE WRATH!  
273-3911  Breakfast Inn has space available  getic babysitter for the evening of  
~,  LOST & FOUND  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115,  Fri. Oct. 6, and afternoon of Sat. Oct. 7, to watch 2-yr.-old and 4-yr.­ PERSONAL  Remember when you told me to call you daddy?  
A.M. -232-2378  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  old.  Will pay $12/hr.  FAX IT FASTIII  
LOST ND-PU WEEKEND ­ OUR  P.M. -288-2726  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­ Call 937-294-4857.  Sending & Receiving at  Tim, I'm pregnant  
PURDUE FLAG WAS LOST IN  9487.  THE COPY SHOP  
THE PARKING LOT ON THE  BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TIX.  EXPANDING INTERNET COMPA- Lafortune Student Center  Who am I? Helmethead. What am  
SOUTH SIDE OF EDISON ROAD.  HOME & AWAY.  2 BR, 2nd fir. Apt. 525/mo.  NY SEEKS PEOPLE INTERESTED  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  I?  
THE 6 FT. X 10 FT. FLAG WAS  (219) 289-8048  Along St. Joe River  IN EARNING PART-TIME OR  FAX IT FAST!!!  
HAND SEWN BY MY WIFE. NO  NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX  Incl. Water/Sec. Syst./Trash  FULL-TIME INCOME. EASY  The Gargoyle is no more  
QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE  NEEDED  288-2654 or 288-2788  MONEY: NO EXPERIENCE NEC- Colleen McCarthy rocks.  

DROP OFF AT THE OBSERVER OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL THANK YOU VERY MUCH  VICTORY TKTS BUY-SELL'TRADE ND FOOTBALL  3,4 & 5-bedroom alumni-owned homes for rent. Please call Jason @240-0322 for homes close to  ESSARY. CONTACT DREW AT 273-1998 OR BILL AT 251-1362. WILL BUY USED CARS CALL 272­ and this space is for her because I said I'd give her a classified.  Henceforth, it shall be called The Face HHHIIIIIIII DDAAAANNNNNNI!  
TICKETS  232-0964 www.victorytickets.com Dad needs 2 lix to Stanford gamCkrosey@mindspring.com  campus NICE HOME AVAILABLE NOW e! NORTH OF ND [ROSE~ND] 277­3097  4776 WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK Ski & Beach trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call 1-800­SUNCHASE TODAYI  P and S ­thanks for the room It makes for a great story. DFP ­how random is my life? Hey KT(l ­Look, Magellan, I think  Everyone like the untimely appear­ance of Brother during Basketball? It's 3:12 -I really want my bed  

FOR SALE, FOOTBALL TICKETS, WANTED ALL GAMES -272-7233. ND FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280 
ATTENTION: Paying $50.00 per FOR SALE ticket for last 3 home games. ONo 
student conversions wanted.O 

(219) 289-8048 B&B lodging in alumni home for ND 
games. (219) 243-2628 or SELLING garyb@mvillage.com 
ND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE 
AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ A.M. -232-2378 email:mmmrentals@aol.com P M. -288-2726 232-2595 
WANTED 
Help! Staffer needs to rent condo/guest house/room in Pasedena, CA. General area for New Year6s hoh­day period ( 12-27 to 1-2) My son is marching in the Rose Bowl Parade' Would consider hosting your family for the usc2001 game. tickets included, ND fans onlyl Please email tdatnd@aol.com or call 259-7544, as for Tina. Thanks Christian family in need ol upbeat caregiver for 18-mo.-old boy in our home near campus. Flex. Hours & great pay. Call Sharyl at 237-0911. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale SPRING BREAK 2001 -Jamaica. Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring Campus Reps -2 Free Trips! Free Meals-Book by 11/3. Call 1-800­426-n10 or sunsplashtours.com. 
we're gonna be okay here.  WHY DON'T I HAVE PICTURES!  
Jose ­you asked, it was me. !let them out Bow Wow. Hey Gate people, IT'S OUR CAM· PUS  Hey man, this 1s dope Not really, I just want to go to bed I don't really suck that bad at CS Anymore  
Hey when is your SYR?  Dawn -Zo wants you to wear shorts  
I'm really sorry aboul your car  Carrie must call me if she reads this  
l want to go home  K loves one woman at a time  
I have lots of room tonight  I'm skipping gym tommorrow  

Monday, September 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame escapes with 2-1 overtime win 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Writer 
Notrn Damu narrowlv cscapnd being knocknd f'rom tlrn top spot Sunday in a com1wtitive 2-1 win against tlw West Virginia Mountaine<irs. 
All week long, the Mountainerrs had bnen eagnr to topple the Irish from their pedestal. A brilliant ef'forl saw tlwm nearly do just that, as the Irish had to rnly on an ovPrlirnc goal l'rom l'rushman Amanda Gu e r ti n lo e k1; pa s t tlH' rvlountaincc~rs. 
.\nticipating a hostile nlC'nption l'rnm the notorious­ly boisterous Mountairw()r !'ans. Wnldrum eautinnecl his team on th(~ importanc1• of not looking past a West Virginia that had everything to gain and nothing to los1~. 
"Wn knew West Virginia would tw a tough tnam to break down." Waldrum said. "Wi-also had sonw concern of' fatigue after a tough strPtch or ganws and travel we'vp <'XIWl'iPncrd ovnr the lasl l'v\'O \\'PP ks.,. 
FatiguP n<'Vl:r Sl:cnwd lo bP a fal·tor. but tlw voracious Mounlain1rnr d<d'ens<\ was. WPsl Virginia packed the box with as many as six dcfond­nrs at a tim1• in an attempt to klH'P tlrn scorP closl'. 
"It's l'rustrating wlwn that Ipa('king tlw box I happ<!llS." \-\'aldrum said. "It's a stv!P I wouldn't plav. I don't thi;1k it docs anythin·g ·ror the ganw." 
\)pspitl' several narly cl1ct111·l•s to brPak tlw ganw 
open, the Irish led just 1-0 at halftime. Sophomore Nancy Mikacenic crossed the ball from the right flank to fresh­man sensation Amy \Varner who zipped a low one-timer home from there for the only goal or the half. 
Walclrum l11nwntr,ct oppor­tunitios missed. "We had sev­1:ral chances lo break it nprn." he said. "Wr just weren't sharp wlrnn wn needed to be." 
Notre Dam1~·s dullness nearly cost them dearly. Just over 11 minutes into tl111 ser­on d half, junior dld'ondcr Lindsey .Jo1ws brought down a Mountainonr forward in tho box: West Virginia junior Kat10 Barnns buried the nnsuing p<!nalty kick to tio 
Urn game. 
With tho oner irn possible thought of' an Irish loss about lo bcconrn a reality, frnsh­111a11 Amanda Gucrlin rnmwuvered down the center of' the field. evading thn clutches of sevornl Mountainc11rs, beforl' drilling a low shot just inside tho loft post f'or thn game wi111wr. 
Whil1! rnliovod at tlw victo­ry, Waldrurn was brutally honest in assessing his team's performance. 
"l told tl11!m it was some of worst soccer we playnd all year," Waldrum said. "Wo 1rned lo got used to gntting <'Vl\rybody's bnst effort." 
Tlw Irish will 1rnPd to do just that. Sitting atop tlrn rankings, the Irish have lrn!'onrn PV<1rybody's targnt. tlw t<1am to boat. "It comes with tlw tPrritnry," Waldrum said. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK The 11ashlight was brighter than the star. 
Wayne Chrebet upstaged for­mer teammate Keyshawn .Johnson on Sunday, catching an 18-yard touchdown pass from running back Curtis Martin with 52 seconds rmnaining lo give the New York .lets a 21-17 vktory. 
Wayne Chrebet had the last laugh Sunday. t:atching the game-winning touchdown. .Johnson was a frequent critic of Chrcbet when both were with the .lots and even wrote about it in the book "Just Give Me the Damn Ball." Johnson disrespected Chrebct again in the werk loading to thr game matching :-3-0 teams. 
The Buccaneers receiver also likened his former teammate~ to a flashlight and himself to a sLa_r. Chrebet didn't respond helorn the game, and he said the winning catch wasn't a mcssagu for Johnson, either. 
"It's not about that, guys. You're losing sight of' what's important here," Chrebet said. 
"The New York Jets arc 4-0. We haven't been in this situa­tion, I don't know, ever. This is a big 180. We used to lose games like this. l think thaL's so important. I can stand up here and say things and point fin­gers. but l 'm bigger than that." 
It was certainly poetic justice that Jets wide reciever Wayne Chrebel should ealch the win­ning touchdown pass after all the talking that former team­mate and Bucs wide recicver Keyshawn Johnson did throughout the week. 
For Keyshawn (one catch, onr yard), maybe next week 

A: When It's the prestigious Luce scholarshlp, finding you an exciting 1-yr job In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 3, 2000. 
lnterestoo1 29 Cf )00"'1 Have you ra, (« Vfffl )tXJ nave by~ eoo dMay, 2001) an ND oogree1 No east-Asa e•? FCf rrae ~foorab,mntadMrs. liaTranteg (1rantsg.1@oo.edu} 
NFL 
Chrebet shuts up Keyshawn 
he'_ll do a little less talking and a httle more preparation to get ready for their game against the Redskins. 
Ra'lens 37, Bengals O 
Coming off a game in whir,h their offense sputtered and the defense was manhandled the Baltimore Ravens were lo~king for a turnaround. 
Hello, Cincinnati! 

Baltimore's Tony Banks threw a pair of touchdown passes in Sunday's victory. Rookie Jamal Lewis ran for 116 yards and a touchdown to back a dominating effort by the Baltimore defense, and the Ravens forced four turnovers in a rout of the hapless Bengals. 
Tony Banks threw two touch­down passes for the Ravens (3­1l. who were intent on bounc­ing back from a 19-6 defeat in Miami last weok. 
"We needed this for our con­fidence. We needed this, peri­od," said defensive tackle Hob Burnett, who knocked Cincinnati quarterback Akili Smith out of the game in the second quarter. "H's very grati­fying to be able to throw a goose egg, especially after what happened last week." 
The Bengals (0-3) proved to be the perfect cure. Cincinnati which had only 4 yards rush~ ing, has been outscored 74-7 this year. 
Cincinnati coach Bruce Coslet, obviously frustrated over the defeat, summed up his feelings in 10 seconds. ''I'm going to be short," he said. "You saw the game. Congratulations to the Ravens. They played a heck of a football game and we didn't play very well at all. I'll just leave it at that. Thanks." 
Rams 41, Falcons 20 
. Kurt Warner did it again, this time to the Atlanta Falcons. 
Isaac Bruce had a pair of TD receptions for the Rams on Sunday.Warner threw four touchdown passes, including two to Torry Holt of 85 and 80 yards. and the unbeaten St. Louis Rams beat the Atlanta Falcons and scored 30 or more points for an NFL-record 10th consecutive regular-season game. 
Warner also threw a pair of TD passes to Isaac Bruce of 14 and 66 yards as the Rams (4-0) increased their scoring average to 40 points. 
Warner has already had huge games this season against San Francisco (41-24), Seattle (37­
34) and Denver (41-36), throw­ing for 1,221 yards and six TDs. 
"We know that we can score whenever we get the ball." Warner said. 
It was the 12th time in 19 games that Warner has thrown for more than 300 yards. He completed 12 of 19 passes for 336 yards and an interception. 
"We didn't get a lot of shots, but we took advantage of them when we did get them," Warner said of his scoring passes to Holt. "He did a great Job. We gave him some chanr,es one-on-one and he took care of the rest." 
The Rams, averaging 400.3 yards through the air and 506 total yards, wound up with 395 total yards against the Falcons (2-2). 
"They're the world champs," Falcons linebacker Keith Brooking said. "You can't make mistakes like we made." 
The Rams defense, which was ranked 30th -next to last -in the NFL coming into the game, pitched in with eight sacks -three by right end Grant Wistrom -two intercep­tions and two fumble recover­ies, including a 94-yard fumble recovery _for a touchdown by safety Kmth Lyle. The fumble by Jamal Anderson gave him five this season, and he has lost a league-high three. 
Once again, Atlanta had diffi­culty trying to find a way to stop the Rams offense. 
Kurt Warner continued his unbelievable play this year with four touchdown passes ­including three long TDs (66, 85 and 80 yards). The Falcons meanwhile, were victimized by turnovers. They were in this game early but Chris Chandler threw two interceptions ­which is uncharacteristic for him -and Atlanta also fum­bled twice. One fumble was returned 97 yards by Hams safety Keith Lyle for a touch­down. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
"The Best of Both Worlds" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday September 26, 2000 
4:45 PM 102 DeBartolo 
With Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs 
Application Deadline: December 1 For Fall 2001 -Spring 2002 AY 2001-2002 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 25, 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
RellleDibering Clary, Whirlwinds win 21-6 
well, yet both captains believe down. The Chaos would also The Lyons offense respondedBy KATIE DeMENT, CHRIS there is convert the two-point conver­aggressively. Sophomore quar­FEDERICO and ELIZABETH much room for improvement. sion on a pass from Olszowy to terback Sarah .Jenkins and
HOHN 

Harcourt said,"Hopefully when Marcolte to bring the score to freshman receiver Roxie Sports Writers 
the receivers and thii quarter­14-0. Trevino paired up to lead their back start connecting things Pangborn got the ball back team down the field. They will start to happen." and moved successfullv down didn't get far enough though,
The Welsh Whirlwinds were Rak admits to " having some the field before they turned the with the score still 6-0 as the playing for much more than a missed opportunities in offense, ball over on downs. first half came to a close. viclory Thursday night in lheir missed passes but also having a Once again, Olszowy found Just as the second hall' was 21-6 win against the Lewis few good plays." her favorite target Marcotte, starting, the game was abruptlyChicks. this time for a 40-yard touch­stopped, as the lights over 
"We did what we had to du to down pass to give each her sec­Stepan field clicked off, causing
Cavanaugh 20, Pangborn 0 

win on Thursday," Welsh quar­ond touchdown of the game. a 15-minute game delay.
Cavanaugh brought its chaot­
ter back Katie Rak said. Cavanaugh missed the con­Both teams huddled up and
ic, high-flying offense to Stepan
"Wednesday night we received version on the last play of the tried to stay warm during the
field Thursday. Led by the
news about Brionne Clary, one strong arm game. unanticipated
of quarterback
of our friends, passing away, so In the sec:ond half. Lynn intermission before charging
Lynn Olszowy, the Chaos
some of us didn't sleep very Olszowy was red-hot going 4-7 onto the field for more action.
blanked the Pangborn Phoxes
well and our minds were not all with two touchdowns. After the Howard came up with anoth­
20-0.

thore. We wore ribbons on our game, she praised her team­er touchdown, with Veselik
Both teams had trouble get­
sleeves in her memory and we mates saying, "Our squad has a finding senior receiver Vanessa
ting started offensively in the
dedicated the game to Brionne" great mix of individual athleti­Nero in the endzone this time.
first half. 

Clary would be happy with cism and team enthusiasm." The Ducks then converted for
There was no score until late
her teams efforts. Marcotte gave credit to her the extra point, putting them
in the half when Cavanaugh got
J\fter Vanessa Liclwn kicked team's defense saying, "It is the ahead 13-0.
the ball on their second posses­
off the Welsh scoring with a defense that anchors our team Lyons refused to give up,
sion from their own 33-vard
touchdown, the Whirlwind by playing so well and giving rebounding with several long
line. · 

defense shut the Chicks offense. our offense such great field pass attempts. First, Jenkins
Quarterback Lynn Olszowy
The strong defensive effort position to work with " found freshman Allison Shenk
found her target on a 20-yard
was no surprise to the Rak who almost 25 yards downfield. This 
passing play, and then scram­said "defense has always been 
momentum was spoiled by
bled for another 20-yards on a Howard 13, Lyons 0the anchor of the team." 
another Veselik interception,
quarterback draw. They Thursday night, Stepan field
Lewis captain Katherine but then regained when a
pounded the ball into the end­hosted fierce competition
Harcourt admits being "shell 
Howard fumble turned the ball
zone with an option pitch to between two South Quad
shocked by the skills of Welsh." 
back over to the Lyons offense. 
tailback Meghan Myers. The women's interhall football
llarcourt and Amber Azevedo 
Jenkins completed another
attempted two-point conversion teams, as Howard shut out
intercepted numerous pass, this time to senior captain
failed. Lyons 13-0.
Whirlwind passes, giving the 
Lisa Thomas, but one more
Pangborn got the ball back The Lyons squad came out
Chicks a confidence boost. 
attempt to propel the offense
with 1:17 to play in the half, but fired up, but in the end, its
llarcourt attributes the teamOs with a long ball was foiled by a
was unable to manage a drive. efforts were no match for
liwliness to "a lot of the fresh­Klimek interception. The Lyons
Arter a couple of three-and­Howard. The Lyons defense
men who are new and enthusi­turnovers throughout the game
out series to open the second was strong, with several key
astic." 
frustrated the team.

half, Pangborn started out plays by freshman Marie
Jen Grubb, former Notre 
Trevino said, "For the most
again from its own 18-yard Kochert.
Dame soccer player, now shows part I thought we improved, but
line; however, Melissa Kalas The Howard squad was led
her Welsh spirit on the interhall it just seemed when we needed
was intercepted by Cavanaugh by junior quarterback Jill
team. Grubb's strength and 
a key play, we lost the ball."

defender Julie Baron. This Veselik, who ended the 0-0
athletic ability were clearly Time expired with Howard
would be all Cavanaugh would deadlock in the first half. Her
noticeable as she executed victorious, and Veselik was
need to get started in the sec­interception and run gave her
rocketing throws and speed. 

pleased with her squad. "We
ond half. the perfect position to complete
"Throw her in the mix and 
have a young team," she said.
From Pangborn's 10-yard pass to freshman Elizabeth
people don't know who to key a "But they stepped up and did a
line, Olszowy hit wide receiver Klimek in the end zone for the
in on," said Hak. 
good job." 

Melissa Marcotte for the touch-game's first touchdown. 
Both teams did exceptionally 
Unbeaten 
continued from page 24 

"I give their goalie a lot of cred­
it," Waldrum said. "She made 
some great saves out thnrc." 

Warner almost put the Irish on the board with a breakaway goal in the seventh minute. The fresh­man dribbled to the left of Hrown and fired the ball toward the lower left corner of th(~ goal. but it was saved by a Pittsburgh defender. 
Senior Meotis Erikson nearly scored Notre Dame's second goal in the 55th minute, but her shot clanged off the middle of the crossbar. 
"Their defense was tough to handle," Warner said. "It seemed like we'd beat one defrmder, and another would be there. We had trouble getting a clear shot off, and when we did, we didn't make it count." 
"We've faced this kind of defense before this season and I know we're going to face it again," Waldrum said. "Our kids have to understand that for the remaining part of tho season, teams are going to play this way. We ju~t have to learn how to han­dle 1t. 
The Irish defense has only given up one goal in the past 408 minutes of play -a penalty kick by West Virginia during the Irish's 2-1 overtime win on Friday -but Waldrum wasn't satisfied with the win. 
"I think we might have played some of the poorest soccer this season," said Waldrum. "There's a sense that the team has some mental fatigue." 
Waldrum said he plans to give the team a few days off this week before they host Seton Hall on Friday. 
"It really becomes two seasons -one to get into the playoffs and then the six games af'tcr that," Waldrum said. "We've got to stay sharp and keep our focus so we get into the second half of' the season in good shape." 
HOLY CROSS at Notre Dame If you've never thought about being a priest, ignore this ad, but if you have ... 

why not find out more?? 
Informal pizza night/prayer/discussion Tuesday, Sept. 26th, 9:00-1 0: 15p.m. @ Corby Hall 
CONTACT: Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. ANSWER :-'d:;;": THECALL '<!Y
1-308 7-vocation. l@nd.edu 
"You know my great desire to be close to the young. I declared so at the beginning of my pontificate and repeat it now: you are the future of the world, the hope of the Church." Pope John Paul II 

Monday, September 25, 2000 The Obsaver . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish fall to Pirates and Huskies during Big East 01atches 


Club Sponsors: Management Club, Accounting Club. Finance Club. Hispanic Business Students Association, Marketing Club. Science Business Club 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Edicor 
Coming into back to back B i•g Ea s t c o n tc sts a g a i n s t Seton Ilall and Connecticut, Notre Dame men· s soccer coach predicted, "I think we have a good enough team to go 2-0 this Wf';ekend, but both teams arc strong enough to beat us as well." 
Apple's analysis proved eerily correct as the Irish fell 1-0 in each game despite playing well in both. 
Hosting No. 2-ranked Connecticut on Sunday, the Irish (3-4-1, 1-3 in confer­ence) kept the game even until the game's 80th minute, when Connecticul's Darin Lewis scored on a header. The goal followed a drive by Edwin Rivera that drew Irish goalkeeper Greg Tail 

"We had a lot ofchances,
away from scored its only
the goal we just hit them wide or goal 19:31 bcfor1-1 high." into the con­Rivera test, as fresh· passed off man forward to a diving Chris Apple Ingo Dittel Lewis. Irish head coach scored his 
great goal scorer, when he gets one he's going to get 20." 
The Irish missed another chancA at 64:57 as freshman Chad Riley's penalty shot was blocked by a defender. 
Despite finding defeat with­in the jaws of victory, the Irish remain positive regard­ing their play against the nation's No. 2 team. "We def­initely proved to ourselves that we're a good team," said Tait. "We can hold our own against any team as long as we don't beat each other.'' 
Friday night's game matched the Irish up against another Big East rival as the Pirates of Seton Hall traveled to Alumni Field. Despite dou­bling the Pirates in shots taken by a 18-9 margin, the Irish failed to put the ball in the net and dropped the 
game 1-0. 
Seton Ila!! 
"He got it  
out  on  the  
outside, he  
got it past a  couple of our  
defenders,"  said  Tait.  

"Because he brought it in so close to the goal I had to con­centrate on him." 
Connecticut took the game only after the Irish squan­dered various opportunities to take the lead. At 35:09 into the game, sophomore forward Erich Braun stole the ball from the Huskies' Brent Hahim and broke away downf'ield. 
One-on-one with the defender, Braun shot the ball to the right of the goal, nar­row I y missing the game's first score. Despite the miss, Apple still has confidence in last year's leading goal-scor­e r, who is still not at 100 percent after returning from a hamstring injury. 
"I still think he's quick," said Apple. "He's putting a little pressure on himself to score the goals. They're going to come. He's a great goal scorer and if he relaxes and jus( tells himself he's a 
first career 
goal. Dittel 

stole the ball at midfield and ran past two defenders before putting the ball past Tait. 
"He brought it across the right side, cut across the middle and got a shot on goal," said Tait. 
As they did on Sunday, the Irish were successful in cre­ating shots, but were unable to convert. Braun took six shots -nearly making three -while senior midfielders Dustin Pridmore and Griffin Howard each took four. 
"Against Seton Hall I felt that we created some great opportunities," observed Apple. "I thought we needed to do a better job of putting our chances on goal to make their keeper make a save. We had a lot of chances, we just hit them wide or high." 
The Irish have a week of practice to regroup from their losses before hosting another Big East rival as the Panthers of Pittsburgh come to Alumni Field Friday at 7:30. 
International Summer Service Learning Program 
·.  Year 2001  
Oa111badla Gllaaa  Naill  louador Hondu,a1  Iii lalYador lndla U9ando  

ISSLP is an 8-week community based summer ser:1, e-leaming course where students work in one of twelve countries around the world with organizations and ministries meeting the needs of the poor and marginalized. Includes: Travel Expenses, $1,700 Tuition Scholarship, 
3.0 credit Theology course, Preparation & Re-entry Classes. 
Qualified candidates must have strong conversational skills for Spanish speaking sites and previous experience in service-learning. 
~ At the Center for Social Concerns 
~ Thursday,September14, 6:00pm Tuesday, September 26, 6:00pm Sunday, October 8, 6:00pm 
Applicatioru> Available at the Center for Social Concem~ 
Deadlines' Due Wednesday, November 1• 
Questions? Call tne ISSLP Director, or Andrea Mechenbier or Dawn Lardner at 631-5293 
Presented By Gibson & Associates, Inc. Brought to you by The Management Club 
tl#tl 
~, N f I JI r O 11 SOC I,._ L CONCERNS 


Monday, September 25, 2000
Dasso 
continued from page 24 

today. l think I usl'Cl it all uµ this week. IBeilikl played well. Every gaml' was close, but I couldn't quitri gN my munwntmn going." 
Tlw two wonrnn may meet again in the spring when Wake Forest comes to South Bend 
Fnb.10. 

N(lt to bt> nutdon,, by the suc­cess of Dasso. the rest of the Irish wonwn also played well this wrPkcn<l in tlrn Maryland lnvitalional tournanrnnL 
Tlw t<1urnamen1 was high­lighted by thP imprPssiV<' play of NotrP Damn ('rnshnwn Caylan Leslil', Emily Noighbours and Alicia Salas who all adY1u1ced to Uw littals of tlwir 11ights. 
Cnvlnn Lesli<' and Emily Nl'ighbours both won thei·r lfoa Is on Sunday in straight Sl\tS, along with junior fforicn Day. Salas playt>d well but lost in the linal · "WP rPally had a great wock­tind." said Loud ,i rbac k. "All thn•I' of our fr1islrnrnn µlayPd l"l!illly WPII." 
Lnsli1', who is tlrn sixth-high­<'St ranked l'rnshman in the country. b•iga11 lrnr r.ollcgiate rari>er quite well with a 6-4, h-4 victory over Maryland's Dnlila 
Causevic in the finals. Leslie, who did not drop a St!t if! tlw tournament, looked very impressive as she took on Causcvic, who eliminated junior Irish tennis player Lindsay Green in a hurd !'ought three-sf't match in the semi-linuls. 
Neighbours and Salas also b<1gan th(~ir carpers on a high note. Neighbours beat Svracuse's Kati11 Thompson 6-1, 6'-2 in Sunday's final and also finished the tournament without losing a sPt. 
After winning two three-set matches on her way to the linal, 1\Jotrc Damp's Salas foll 6-2. 6-4 to William & Mary's Nina Kamp. 
The Irish, who art! led by 11­year head roach LoudiirlJark, look to b11 picking up right whf~re ttrny left off last year, which tlrny <!ndcd with a 21-7 rncord. J.oud1,rbark, last sea­son's Big East Coach ol' the Year. has r1'cruitcd a solid freshman rlass and !Jelievcs that the combination of tho f'nishmAn and junior players such as Lindsay 1;re1111 and Nina Vaughan will bn a big !'actor in how well tlw Irish do !'or lhP n•mainder of' tlw rail and in the spring. 
Next wcrnk<ni<l I.Im Irish will stay in South Bend to play in the Eck classic Friday through 
Sunday. 


JEFF SHUfThe Observer  
Senior Michelle Dasso prepares to return a shot in a match last year.  Dasso battled stomach  
pain to reach the finals at the Maryland Invitational Sunday.  

YOU CAN KNOCK OUT THOSE "FRESHMEN 151" 
HAVE WEIGHT WATCHERS CO.ME TO YOU WITH OUR NEW ON CAMPUS PROGRAM. 
Yo1Jr i:upeN!Onvenient dtearn diet from a mime you ttui:t i1: coming to ~otta Dame! 

No eornplleiited counting! Eat pizza, ffJst-food meali:­any food you crave &i:till loi:e weight. 
Gata full 1:et of fflfo..PJ:Jcked booklet!:, tong of eai:y reeli:,es, plu1: 1:peeialfzed in-rneetlng and on line Cff=' tuppott ftorn tlillned Weight Watchm miff. ~ 
\ ;:;;~-OtJLY ,;79 f:OR 7 WtI~! --<;:""''P;i,.ol1 ..-Ragitfl!t today ovl!t thA phona:
"'"",.. 

~f 1-i00-572-5727 
Vlmi, M~tmCard end Dl~et acceptlld. oneamp11t®ww-wrnl.com 

0 2000 Weight Wllcl!en lntc:nwiooll. Inc" OM>er or WEIGHT WATCl!ERS irademlrk. All righls ,...,,,ed.. 

' ~ , ~*) ,.., .,. . :(~
RETIREMENT INSURANCE' MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES ,1 TUITION FINANCING 
While TIAA-CREF invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance like this. 
TIAA-CREF has delivered impressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT3 ln our CREF Growth Account, one of many CREF vari­able annuities, we combine active management with enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have 5 YEARS 6/30/00two ways to seek out performance opportunities­helping to make your investments work twice as hard. This approach also allows Combine this team approach with our low expensesEXPENSE RATIO us to adapt our investments and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from CREf GROWTH INDUSTRY to different market the competition. Call and find out how TIAA-CREF ACCOUNT AVERAGE conditions, which is can work for you today and tomorrow. 0.32%' 2.09%2 especially important during volatile economic times.  
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.'"'  1.800.842.2776 www.tiaa-cref.org  
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. 1. TIAA-CREF expenses reflect the waiver of aportion of the Funds' investment management fees, guaranteed until July 1, 2003. 2. Source: Morningstar, Inc. 6/30/00, tracking 939 average iarge-cap growth annuity funds. 3. Due to current market volatiiity, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The investment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the prfflcipal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemption. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities • Teachers Personal Investors Seivices, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annu1t'J component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIA.A and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuitie.s. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03  

Monday, September 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Irish, Spartans share similarities 
I don't know why I rwver thought about it bPfon1 today. 
Thn similarities. I mr,an. Iktwncn tlw Mir,higan State and Notre Darm~ football teams. On Saturday, when tlw Irish took tlw !Pad 1'arly. Llw Spartans rPspondnd with 20 unan­swPrPd. Notr<' Danw ranw back to takP a Olll'-p11int !Pad. and tlwn \!SC srnn'd tlw \\'inning [(Juchdown with lnss than two minutns il'l'l. I didn't WI' how alikP thesP two tc'ams 
arP. 
Th1\y both rnnw into this s1~a­son with high nxpPrtations l'or junior qtmrt,,rbarks who had snPn limit1·d action in tlwir l\rst l'wo yPars But 1witlwr Arnaz Batt!P nor Hvan Van l>vkP would takl' a sing!<: snap in six1rtan Stadium. 
As a n~sult. both offonsPs rl'liPd on tl1Pir soplrnmon' tailbacks ­thr Irish mi Julius . .lo1ws. Michigan State' on T . .J. l)urkPtt ­to k1'PP t!wir def1·ns1'S from com­plr'tPly ciPriding thP ganw. 
Both dPf'PnsPs still rnnw prPtly rlosl'. 
In l'arl. tlw main n~ason Notre· I lanw !I'd 21-20 latP in tlw fourth qua1-tl'r was bncausl' of' a df'lrnsP that \\/LS oncP again ov<'rplayPcJ but rnwPr ov!'rrnalf:hPd. 
Mi<"higan State· lwld tlw ball for owr 34 minutPS and usPd that tinw lo 21 morP olfon~ivn plays than tlw Irish. Down 20-14 narlv in tlw fourth. the Irish forcnd · quartr>rback Jeff Smoknr into a scrnmblc. knockl'd llw ball loosP. and tlwn rncovnrc•d LIH· l'umb!P. at tlw Spartan 12. 


When thP of'fonsn didn't convnrl on fourth-and-I f'rom tlw 3. tlw dnf'P.nsP. sucke\d it up and c:anw back on tlw f"u·ld. Anthony \VnavPr intPrTe'ptl'd a s1:rPPn pass. and returiwcl it a f'P_,v yards to tlw 2. This !Pel to an Irish touchdown and a 2 1-20 lnad that. lwld up until MSLI l'a/'Pcl a l<rnrth and tnn in tlw ganw·s ilnal monwnLs;, still (11-i ~'arcls l'rom tlw !'tld ZOO(', 
I think the 1wxt play is still on unwilling yPi rnnlinual rnplay in LhP minds of' both Irish playnrs and f'ans. 
That said. no blanw should bP put 011 llw Notn• I>,1 nw dl'fPnsn. You (:an !wt Llw guy's on llw field wlwn Il<'rb I la~'good brok<' off tlw biggnst play of' his rn1T1'r take' l'ull rnsponsibility l'or what happPnnd. 
But that dews11·1 nwan sonw analvsl can sit tlwrc and sav: "Ma;1, that d!'i'PnS(' ('()St tlwi11 tlw ganw." And I don't think many p<'oph• havr. 
You can 'L blanw t111, of'l'nnsP, ('.itlwr. Looking al only 212 yards of'total olfonsl'. I think many more of'us might ,,ant to. But that's too easy.of' an PX plan al.ion. 
Tlw offonsiw li111• still opC'tWd up holrs and Jrnws still took advantagn of' t.lwm, Lo llw tun,, of' 12<> \ ards and t\\'o LOLii' hdowns. d1•spitP the fart that tlw dd'PllS(' kn<'\\' !lw Irish m,uld IJI' hesitant to throw tlw ball \\'ith Pitlwr of' lhnir two young quartPrbacks. 
Wlwri tlwy did throw t!in hall. it 
usuallv wasn 'l 11 su(·e·pss. Sixtv­
thn'(' yards passing is prPtty · 
inffiminating "' id1•ncP. 
Still. thr No. I and 2 quarte~r­
backs haVP just IJ!'<'ll thrust into 
thosn roles and don't boast much 
collngP nxp<'ri<•nr1' be·t.wnPn 
them. You can't 1':XJWt'l tlwm to 
go into thr ganw and mak1· likf' 
I)rrw Brn<'s against anyone. 
And wlwn they did gnt a rha11cP. th(\ NotrP nanw rec<'ivnrs. an underrated group, madn plays . .I ust look at Javin lluntnr se\Lt.ing up a score on a 43-:vard pass by stopping his roul1' and coming-back bPhind Ilw cli·fonclrr t1J m,tk(\ a r.atrh at tlw two. 
S11 wli1\!'I' clops a St'11'-rnsp<'1·ting Irish l'an pl arc· tlw bl,tnin for tlw loss that droppPd Llw tnam to 2­
2'? 
Tl11• ans,,·t•r: 110\\ lwr!'. 
This Notr<' lhnw lPam looks dilftTt'lll than it did a month ago. largc,ly bi•rausP of' sonw kny i11j11ri<'s. That's macll' winning l'ootlmll gamns hardl'r than it would otlwn\'isl' havl' been. 
Tlw d!'1'1•11sP rnis~e•s Grnnl Irons. but vou'd llP\'Pr know it bv tlw mty Lli°P~' pla~'-· · 
011 t.lw otllC'r sid,, ol' tlw ball. Llw Irish haw to 11nd a way to g<'t tlw ll1'1'!'11s1' rnnning agai11. Tlwy haw llw abilit\ -LhrPP inrredi­bh' tailbacks. fr,arlnss and fast wicl1· rPrnivnrs, and some _tight nncls lo whom till! tPrm "rnliabil·" would bn an 11ndr•rstatPnwnt of' hug,, proportions. lluL likr. a sal'C'­1TarkPr. LiH'Y now lrnv<' to find tlw riglll romlJinalion to makn it all rlirk. 
The' ~·oung quart('rbark 1weds to I)(' giVf'll a slralngy that will IP.t him ('()Ordinal<' all LIH'S<' wnapons lo t'Xplod1' on opposing def'Pnsns. 
In a ganll' with two :c.imilar Warns. it r"uld Pasilv havr' b(\Pll Nott 1• I>anw e:Pil'bntling a rome­bark win and fVliC"higan State' dPaling ,, iU1 its own prnbli,ms. 
lnsl<~ad. tlw Irish lost a top 20 spot in till' polls and Michigan Stat,• look 01w O\'l'r. 
llut l'or l\\O tPams so muC"h 
alik, ·. it woulcln 'L lw right for the 
Irish to Id thn Spartans hang out 
tlwr,\ nlo1w f'or too long. 
'/11r' l'ic11·s t'.tpressed in this co/­1111111 ctre !WI 111•cessaril_11 those of The IJhsercer. 
VOLLEYBALL 


DOROTHY CARDERffhe Observer 

Junior Jolie Lebeau came away with 10 solo blocks as the Belles recorded their first win Thursday night. 
Belles finally earn season's first win 
By CECILIA OLECK Sports Writer 

The bdls of Saint Mary's are ringing loud and rlear for the women's volkyballteam.who ended a HJ-game drought with a vir,tory against Manchester College on Thursday night. 
The Belles handPd thP Spartans a 10-15, 16-14, 15-17. 15-11, 15-9 defoat Angela Meyrrs led the team with 30 kills and 25 digs. . 
JoliP. LeBnau played a solid game at the net and came away with 10 solo b]or,ks, two block assists. and 14 kills. Jaime Dineen racked up 56 assists. while Leigh Anne Matesich r,ame up with 24 digs and contributed 20 points in the vktory. Victoria Butcko also added HJ digs. 
The win givPs Saint Mary's a 1-10 record. but more importantly gives a much needed boost to the team's morale and reinforces 
their conlidenr,e that they r,an play more r,ompetitively with in · their league. Outside hitter Matesich said that the diITerencP in 
this game was that we communicated 100 pPrcentbetter." 
Coar,h Julie Schroder-Bick felt the deciding factor was that. 
"They rriaintained their for.us throughout the match. They did not 
let the frustrations of the game distrar,t them from their goals." 
Schroeder-Bick felt a great sensP of pride in her players. 
"Manchester was the scrappiest team we played yet," she said. 
"Most teams fold with frustration when they have a great hit or a 
grP.at tip and the other team just ker,ps getting a hand on it... I 
was very proud of how hard the team fought for that win." 
The Belles are on thr~ road at Olivet on Saturdav and then 
return home for games against Alma and Albion on Sundav and 
Tuesday. resper,tively. · 
L'NIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAJ\-lE INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRA.VIS 
201 SECURITY BUILDING 
!llolre Dame, Indiana 46556 T: 631-5881 Fu:: 631-57ll 



OIV Cross lisSill 
in Coachella, CA Seminar 
"Immersion in the Latino Community and Holy Cross Parish" January 2-9,2001 
Informational Meetings: 
Wed., Sept. 27 7:30pm@CSC Thurs., Sept. 28 9:00pm @CSC 
.CENTER FOR

-¦
SOCIAL 

~
CONCERNS 


Bridget Green, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
Wednesday September 27, 2000 
4:45 PM 129 DeBartolo 
page 20 The Observer"' SPORTS Monday, September 25, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Daine splits Illatches in Golden Dome tournalllent 

nanH!nt champion Colorado S~ate. Up 14-10 in game three, thP Irish foll apart as th1~ Harns racked up live points in a row for tlw win. <,irlon led Notrn Dame with I (i kills and 12 digs. 
"It was kind of' a disappoint­ing <111d lo what was a good wPnkn1HI ovn ral I. Our rn ai n goal against Color:ido SlnlP was to gnl 011n ganui. which wn dnfinitt'ly rnuld haw done, so it kind ol' pul a dampn on tlw wi\Pkn1Hl. But our goal l'or tlw wholn w11nkond was to win two ol' our thrnn nrntclws, which
"I think we had our best
strikn we did. So it \Vas b a c k . passing weekend this good but il was Goralski also had
year.
racked up because W(\ 10 kills know that wn out of 12 Christi Girton could havn fin­
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Spom Writer 

following Notrn Damn vol­lryball's win ovn Wyoming and loss to No. 4 Colorado State this Wt)ckend. senior Christi Girton and junior Malinda (;oralski W<'rc named to lho Coldon Donw all-tour­
nament tnam. 

Thi' Irish ddPatNI Wyoming in just tlm'<' games (15-1, 1 S­:i. l.5-8l, jumping ahcad in game onn lwfon, tlrn Cowgirls had a rhancf' to 
attempts senior in the match for a ll impres­sive .833 hilting pcrcentagti and also added snven blocks. Girton had 10 kills and five· digs to aid Notre Dame. 
"I think wP had our best passing weekend this ynar. Usually passing is what gives us the most problems but because we had good passing we were able lo run a bethir offense," Girton sai cl. "Our defense is better than it has been recently but we still have room to improve." 
In its first loss in six games. Notre Dame fell (7-15, 7-15, 14-16) to f'ourth-ranked tour­
ish<'d on a b<'ttPr 
notP." Cirton 
said. No. 24 Nolrn 
Damn is coming 
off an upsnt ovnr No. 22 Loyola Marvmount 1 !i-9. 1 (1-14. 1 !i­17, ·1 (i-14 in which junior Kristy Krnhor snl a new school rocord with 32 kills in four ganrns. 
"Wn have trouble l'inishing games. Wr. did that against UCL/\ and we did it against Nebraska whnn wn should have bmm abln to gel a gamn, but we·ve been working on that and hopefully we'll be abln to get it," Girton said. 
The Irish. now 9-4. will host Villanova on Friday as thny begin Big East play. 

Monday, September 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish take 42 of 59 lllatches at To01 Fallon Invitational 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sports W, irer 
If the Torn Fallon Invitational stood as a test for the Irish men's tennis team. then the squad named a passing mark. 
Al'tPr compflting against William and Marv. Purdur, Baylor and Michigan during thn weekend's competition, the Irish racked up 42 total victo­ries out of a possiblP 5() in sin­gles and doubles matches, proving that they will be a force to contend with during tlrn 2000-2001 SC,lSOll despite the loss ol' key starters. 
"I'm very (encouraged. and. I'm pretty excited about our team." Notrn Damr. head coach Bob Bayliss said. "I think we have a chance to really do something this year. but it's the first step of a very long year. and it's n little wema­turP to be jumping up and down .at this point." 
Juniors Aaron Talarico and 
Casey Smith stepped in at the 
lop singles spols for the first time in their Notre Dame careers, and were able to silence any critics who did not think they rould handle lhe pressure. Talarico cornpr.ted ip the No. 1 singles position for three out of the fom matdrns, upsetting 90th-ranked Trevor Spracklin of William and Mary by Urn score of 7-5, 6-2, ,vhile losing close matches against Purdue and iVlichigan. 
"Yeah, I was nervous [about playing No. 1J." Talarico said, "But I've worked hard and I deserved tu be there. I just tried my best to keep my men­tality intact, and it was a posi­tive experience for me." 
With Talarico sidelinPd because of an injury, Smith filled in at No. l against Baylor and pulled out a solid victory against Sean O'Connor 6-1, 7-6 (7-5). Smith recorded a 4-0 singles record over the week­end by also notching wins in the No. 2 singles position against William and l\Iary, Purdue, and Michigan. ;\fter playing in the top half of the lineup during all of his sopho­
Sunday's Results from the Tom Fallon Invitational 
s 


more season, Smith was ready to compete at No. 1 and took it in stride. 
"I don't think it really mat­ters what number you play," Smith said. ''I've learned over the last two years not to he picky about where you play. The thing is, a point is a point. If I win I win, if I lose I lose, so you just need to go out and win wherever you play." 
Smith also teamed together with freshman Luis Haddock­Morales ·in doubles to post a 4­0 mark, giving him a spotless record overall for the week­end's competitions. 
The 9th-ranked lrish doubles team of Tnlarico and Javier Taborga also made a success­ful debut in season-opening play. The duo ekPd out a win against William and Mary 9-8 (10-8) while defeating Purdue 8-5 to post a 2-0 record for the weekend. Despite their early success, the pairing knows they still have room to improve. 
"Right now we are not play­ing as good as we want to," Taborga said. "We are trying to get to another level and we are doing things we not used to doing. For example, we are trying to be more aggressive and go up a lot more. If we want to stay top 10 we are going to have to be more aggressive. Hight now we are not as solid as we want to be. but at the same time I think that the weapons we are work­ing on are going to pay off dur­ing the season." 
Taborga also pulled off a stunning victory in singles play, defeating 68th-ranked Mark Williams of Baylor bv taking the third set tiebrnaker, finishing the weekend with a 3-1 record in singles. Junior Andrew Laflin also recorded 


Irutitute Jur Latino Stuaies Presents 

,_.~. ., 
!'""F 
\i'..:~

"~etween J-fome and£a Patria: Cuban .Jlmericans Reffect on Cuba" 

~-mk~ll 

'Reacfings and'Discussion f~ 

-"'"''·-"""',_,.,

By Or{ando .Menes and 
""""~~"...-,c· ,!.§<'t-,o ••••·n,o.,c"' .,~h<6o~#.P,-<>=.~:>",•·1''••A:'-W<>> 

(jera{c[ 'Poyo 
T'uesday, Seytem6er 26 

6:30 P:M 

=.,...,_.,...,-J1<..,,.,.w ---tlll<;~,,_.. 
~'<i::--:~,-,.-•,·::,,:,•:~-·•{v<~,.:,1'.,,. 

Juuan Samora Library 
204 :McXenna J-fa[{ 






~' .IM..-,,.~~-cl-:a'l<:;11!. -••ir:-... __ ,.-...... 
"""~1>-'·':~c,,·i~~~ 


an impressive start to the sea­son, going 4-0 at the No. 6 sin­gles position. 
Freshman newcomers Haddock-Morales and Matt Scott both kicked off their Notre Dame varsity careers with success, which is good news for the future of the Irish. · 
"[The freshmen] have been terrific so far. They're a real bright spot for us," Bayliss said. "These guys are good. They are capable of moving up and playing higher, and it's going to put a healthy pressure on the guys who play one, two, and three. They've got great attitudes; and they're some of the hardest workers on the team." 
Playing against William and Mary, Purdue, and Michigan at the No. 4 singles position, and against Baylor at No. 3, Haddock-Morales turned in a perfect 4-0 singles perfor­mance over the weekend. Scott played in the No. 5 sin­gles slot for the Irish for three of the matches and moved up to slot number four against Baylor, recording a 3-1 mark overall. 
The Irish started the new season with a bang, swiping away any concern that the squad could not recover from the departure of All-American and Irish tennis legend Ryan Sachire and the absence of senior starter Matt Daly due to injury. 
"We were able to hang in at the top positions, which had to be a concern with the top two players from last year not being available." Bayliss said. "And we looked really strong in the middle and lower part of the lineup." 

OelfiH-rt1f Tk ~Hzza/ 
&~· 

"Fighting Irish Spec:ial" 
Sunday-Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday 
5:00 · 7:00 PM 
LARGE CHEESE PIZZA 
$5.55 
N,otre. D,c,l~e,. S~.in~ IYfaeyJs,; 
271-1177 271-7272 
Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 am Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am Sunday Noon -1 am 
•TIie most p,o,p,u,l;a,,:, f/; 06', c,•mPI!•") 
----· -­
oo,o

000 SYDNEY 2000 
page 22 Monday, September 25, 2000 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Greene, Jones combine for American I 00 meter s-weep 
joyed and overwh•ilmerl and be a cool cat. I'm going to run. Associa1cd Press 
everything and just filled with I'm going to celebrate. Then 
,1oy. when you cross that line and 
SYDNEY .Jones, wearing chromr.-platerl everything all of a suddl'n just 
l\1arion .lmws had barely /in­shoes so shiny they looked like hits you when you re,1lizc that ish ed her victory lap when mirrors. went sleeveless on a you can be described as an Mauricr Grr.enc joined her as cool night on which winrl Olympic champion. finally, it an Olympic I00-111Ator champi­swirled around the soldout was verv emotional." on. l 10.000-st=>at Olympi!'. Stadium. Jones~ husband, shot putter 
Jones, who as a youngster After a false start by Thanou, C.J. Hunter, was all smiles as wrotn on a bedroom blackboard Jones made up an early deficit his wife drcled the track. "I want to be an Olympic cham­to Jamair.a's Tanya Lawr('nce "I'm just very, very happy. pion," got her wish on a r.hilly, and sped past the fir.Id to win That's what she likAs is chal­windswPpt Saturday by winning hy a comfortable margin. lPngPs." l-l11ntPr said "! think tlw women's 100-metm· !inal in Thanou won the silv<::r medal in this is the easiest of her events, 
10.75 seconds. 11. 12 seconds and Lawrence but we're to~allt conl1dent she One down, four to go. was third in 11.18. can do anything. "It's bAen my dream for 11J The only bigger winning mar­In the men's 100, Greene 
yr,ars, and finally it's herP," said gin in an Olympic lOO-meter defeated training partner and a sobbing Jones, who hopes to final. either men's or women's, Sydney houscmate Ato 13oldon win live gold medals in Sydney. was Marjorie Jackson ·s win by of Trinidad & Tobago, who took 
lier winning margin of' 37-.38 over Daphne HasenjagN in silver after getting the bronze hundredths of a second over 1952. medal in Atlanta. Bold-on fin­Fkalf:rini Thanou of GrPece was Merlene Ottey of Jamaira. ished in 9.99 seconds. Obadele the second biggest in Olympic who has won seven Olympic Thompson of Barbados was 100-meter historv. medals, finished J'ourLh -a third in 10.04. 
.Jones had jus"t completed a hundredth of a second behind "I knew this was a race joyous, playful lap around the Lawrence. Ottey, 40, recently Maurice would have to give Olympic Stadium, waving small returned from a one-year drug away for anybody else to have a 
U.S. and Belize flags, when suspension. chance," Boldon said. "Maurice Greene sped to his gr'Jld medal Jones' victory was the first just destroyed us out there, to with a time of 9.87 seconds. step in her quest for five golds. be honest." Jones' mother was born in Only one track athlete, the Greene failed to qualify for Belize. "Flying Finn" Paavo '.\urmi, has the 1996 Olympics and cried in 
Green11 wrapped his head in won that many in one Olympics. the stands while watching the his hands after crossing the fin­He did it in Paris 76 years ago. 100 final at the Atlanta Games. ish line, then pulled off his red­"It's nice to have the first one This time, he was all smiles as white-and-blue shoes and held done. I don't know if it's going he crossed the finish line and them high. Ile threw them into to be harder or easier [from thrust his fist in the air. thi-; crowd and draped himself now on]," she said. "I've seen a "I remember crying in in a U.S. 11ag. lot of Olympic Games, I've seen Atlanta," Greene said. 'Tm glad 
"You work four years for a lot of people cross the [[inish] it's all over. I have a lot of pres­something that's only going to line and I was thinking about it. sure off me and now I have last nine seconds. It's hard to "I was like, 'There's no way. I other things I want to accom­do," Grnenr. said. ''I'm over-was going to cross that line and plish." 

MEN'S SOCCER 

U.S men's squad advances to first ever semifinals 
Associated Press  had an assist and earned a penalty ~ick in the prelimi­ it had won the World Cup, tearing off shirts and pump­ 
naries as the United States  ing clenchP.d fists in tri­ 
ADELAIDE, Australia  won Group C at 1-0-2. "Me,  umph.  
Look out Sydney, here  I'm just exr.ited about going  Japan, which l1:d  twice,  
they come.  to Sydney to be a part of the  stood back bewildered, jaws  
After edging Japan 5-4 in  Olympics. It's going to be  dropped.  
a  sudden-death  penalty  pretty wild. We're going for  The Americans rallied  
shootout after two periods  a medal and its going to be  twice, including Vagr.nas'  
or overtime in Saturday's  exciting."  ·  penalty kick after a dubious  
quarterfinals.  the  U.S.  Victorine, who came on as  call by Zimbabwi:an referen  
men's  soccer  team  is  a substitute in overtime, put  Felix Onias Tangawarima.  
Sydney-bound and hungry  the fifth penalty kick just  Wolff and Tomoyuki Sakai  
for that "Olympir. feeling."  past the desperate dive of  were  vying  for  the  ball  
The  U.S.  men,  who'd  goalkeeper Seigo Narazaki.  when the American striker  
never before advanced out  I-le said minute-for-minute,  was  barely pushed from  
of the first round at an  it was the greatest game of  behind and  appeared to  
Olympic tournament, now  his  career after ho hadn't  take a  dive  near the end  
go into a semifinal Tuesday  played a minute in the three  line as the ball went out of  
against Spain, a l-0 winner  preliminaries.  hounds.  
over Italy in another quar­ "Coming off the bench  llis  performance  con­ 
trrlinal.  into a  situation like that is  vinced Tangawarirna it was  
Josh  \Volff scored  the  amazing," Victorine said. "I  a foul.  
Ameri,:ans' lirst goal to tie it  don't  know,  it  was  just  Wolff defended the ref'cr­ 
1-1, then rnrncc!  a  last­ incredible  to  be able  to  ce·s  decision, saying the  
minute penalty kick, which  come  in and lrnlp thP team  penalty was warrnntnd.  
Pete Vagenas put home,  like that."  "I got mys,ilf' in f'ront, he  
sending the game into over­ While Wolff described the  clipped my feet and I was  
time.  win as the defining moment  forced down,'' he said. "It  
lfo then took the critical  in  the  team's·  history,  was a good PK to give us a  
fourth kick in the shootout  Vagenas said the entire  tie, and fortunately wi: won  
,d'ter  Japan  misserl  its  game was "surreal."  it on penalty kicks.  
!'ourlh.  Wolff  gave  the  ·  "I don'L think it's sunk in  "I don't think  wn  were  
United States an  edge for  -maybe when we leave to  dead at any point. Wf'. were  
the first time, before leading  play in  the  semifinal  it  down twice. but we kept up  
the celP.brntions as the jubi­ might hit me." he said.  the spirit  ...  and deserved  
KRT Photo Japan's goalkeeper Seigo Naraz.aki punches away the ball as he's being put under pressure by USA's Pete Vagenas (left), Conor Casey (2nd from left) and Chris Albright ( right) in their Olympic semifinals match.  lant •hench spilled onto the field whim Sasha Victorine nailed tlrn winner. "We're pumped,'' said Wolff, who scored a gnal,  After Victorine scored just inside the post to thP blood­ied Narazaki 's lr,ft, the entirn Anrnrican squad sprinted onto the field as if'  what we got," he said. Philippe Troussier. hr.ad coach of thn Japannsn tnam, said he didn't want to dwell on refereeing decisions.  



Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Monday, September 25, 2000 The Observer . TODAY TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 

BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS .34 Insane 
page 23 TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

Things Could be Worse will return tomorrow. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-+-+--+--D-4 31 Gait faster than 
a walk R E P E N A R I O S 33 Test taker's dirty ASS ADY PAST secret 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
62 Full house, e.g. 63 Creme de la creme 64 Quote as an example 65 Bartenders 
tender them 66 Echolocation 67 Baby goats 
DOWN 1 Piece of band 
equipment 2 Compete 3 Down with the 
flu 4 Son of Adam and Eve 5 Opponent in an 
argument 6 Shackles 7 Harbor 8 Perimeter 9 Christmas tree 

shedding 10 Monastery heads 11 Influence 12 Hardly the prim 
sort 13 More certain 21 Campaign 
worker 22 Boars Head product 23 Small compartment 24 Become 
accustomed (to) 25 Jordan's capital 29 Liable 30 Leaves harbor 
39 "What _ Is" (1988 #1 
country hit) 
41 Languages 42 Plaintiff 43 Carolina 

(little songster) 44 Rips tQ bits 45 Opponent's vote 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
6  7  8  9  




47 University of 53 Nobel Peace Nebraska Prize city campus site 54 Bridle strap 48 Magnificent 55 Loading area 49 Wrinkly fruit 59 Caesar's three 60 Inc., in Britain 
50 Major blood carrier 61 "You bet!" 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TiflS DAY: Will Smith, Heather Locklear, Barbara Walters, Michael Douglas, Juliet Prowse 
Happy Birthday: Let your cre­ativity lead the way. You need an outlet to help you balance out your emotional ups and downs. Put your energy into the things you find most productive. You can achieve your dreams if you concentrate on what is necessary to complete the pertinent job efficiently. Your numbers: 13, 22, 27, 34, 39, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Domestic investments will be lucra­tive. Get involved in sports events that will use up some of your energy. Take time to listen to friends with problems. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Romantic encounters will develop at social functions involving friends and or relatives. Travel will be plea­surable but costly. Stick to your bud­get, or you won't have enough mon­ey put away for the festive season. 
000 ­

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make plans to have friends over. You can also hold group meetings in your home. You may be interested in tak­ing on a small part-time business of your own. Don't underestimate yourself. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be emotional today. You need to get out and do things that will make you feel better. Shopping may help swing your mood around, but don't overspend. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Superiors are not likely to see your situation the same way you do. Wait and get all the information before talking to your boss. Keep your secret findings to yourself. Be patient and everything 
EUGENIA LAST 
will tum out. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will impress new acquaintances with your intellectual conversation and obvious knowledge about you1 business. Socializing will lead to romantic encounters. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-OcL 22): You'll have a problem with someone you live with if he or she doesn't like the changes you are making. Try to spend more time with family, not less. There are people counting on you.000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should be looking into travel possi­bilities. Going away for the festive season will be a great way to cele­brate this(ear. Looking forward to a change o scenery and some relax­ation will lift your spirits. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may have to help an older relative today. Don't blow situations out of proportion. It is best to do what's necessary and be done with 
it.000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your mate will be emotional if you haven't been spending enough time with him or her. All work and no play will lead to a lonely state of 
affairs. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): This is a great time to pick out a pet to keep you company. You should consider shuffling through some per­sonal papers that need to be updat­ed. You can make career changes if you want. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will enjoy taking trips that will enhance your knowledge. VISits with friends or relatives are enjoyable. Romance will develop through educational groups you belong to. 0000 

-
1 Hertz competitor 
5 Mature 10 Play parts 14 1/soo of the 
Indianapolis 500 15 Wear away 16 cheese 
(salad topping) 17 Animal skin 18 Valley_, Pa. 19 Wild pig 20 Where to get 
scared 23 Org. with secrets 26" a small 
world ... " 27 Second of two 28 Still rumpled, as 
a bed 30 Wineglass features 32 Where to get jarred 
37 Child most likely to be spanked 38 de Janeiro 39 Satisfy a 
hankering 40 Hankering 41 Where to get 
dizzy 44 Hoity-toity sorts 46 Debit's partner 47 "Little 
Annie"­50 Decorated war pilot 51 Place to recuperate 52 Gentle alternative to 20-, 32-and 
41-Across 56 Shaking chill 57 Computer 
operators 58 Greasy 




I I 
-
t 
t ' 
Here come the Irish 

The Irish captured 42 ofa possible fi9 matches en route to victory at the Tom Fallon Invitational.
PORTS 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

No. I Irish beat Panthers to stay unbeaten 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sport, Writer 

.S,mior /\nne Makinen scored tlw lonr. goal as the Notrn Dame women's soccer team beat a df'l'ensivc-oriented Pittsburgh squad 1-0 Sunday afternoon. 
After this game, the No. 1­ranked Irish extrmd tlH~ir record to 9-0 overall and 2-0 in the Big East. while the Pantl11-~rs fall to 3­7 overall and 0-2 in the Big East. 
Makinen's goal, her seventh of thH season, came at 33:35. Frnshman forward Amy Warn11r faked out one dcf,rndcr and passed the ball to the middle of the field, whcrn it was partially deflN•tpd by a Pitt-;hurgh delend­cr. Makinen recovered the ball and blasted it into the upper left corner of the net. 
I lnr goal was all the Irish would need for the win. Although Notni Dame outshot Pittsburgh 27-1, thP Panthers oft(•n played with six defenders in the penalty box, making it rlifTicult for th1! Irish to gl't a quality shot at the net. 
"It's very difficult to break teams down when they pack I 0 or 11 into their half of thP field," said Irish coach Handy Waldrum. 
Even after the Irish scored, the !'anthers seemed reluctant to attack the Notrn Dame defense. Notre Dame goalkeeper Liz Wagner never faced a serious scoring thrnat and was not cred­ited with a single save. 
"We always came out and tried to play," Waldrum said. "That's biwn my philosophy as a coach. Even once they got behind one, they still stayed packed in. It's a little bit frustrating." 
The Irish had multiple scoring opportunities, but had difliculty putting the ball past Pittsburgh goalie Rachel Brown. Brown fin­ished with 15 saves. 
see UNBEATEN/page 16 
WOMEN'S 

Dasso fights stomach pain but reaches finals 

By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sporrs Writer 
In its first tournament of the s,~ason, the women's tennis team headed lo Maryland to compete in the l11tercollegiat(~ 

T. Howe Price Clay Court Ch am pirinsh ips and the Maryland Invitational. The weekend was highlighted by the gusty play of senior Michelle Dassr1 in the Clay Court Championships. 
The l'il'th-seeded Dasso ­who advanced to the finals 

despite pulling a stomach mus­cle early in the tournament ­battled her way through the first two rounds by defeating 31st-ranked Janet Bergman from West Virginia and 44th­ranked Mira Hadu from Mississippi, all in three set matches. Playing hurt and tired Dasso fought her way into the. finals where she faced Wake Forest's second-seeded Rea Bcilik. 
"She pulled her stomach mus­cle in the second round and QY the finals it really hurt her," said coach Jay Louderback. 
"She lost almost all of her 
serve, which usually gets her 
some easy points." 
Despite the pain, Dasso bat­tled on but lost in two sets to Wake Forest's Beilik 6-1, 6-3. Heilick, who did not lose a game in. the five matches played on the way to the finals. said, "I knew coming out that (Dasso] was going to run down a lot of balls so I was going to have to be patient. Luckily I was able to win some key 
•points when I needed to and I think that was the difference today." 
Dasso's appearance in tlw fin al marked the best ever showing for an Irish women's tennis player at a grand slam tournament. 
"She is such a tough kid," said Louderback. "She makes every point a war and doesn't give up. She has worked really hard and to start off her senior season like this was great for her." 
A tired and worn out Dasso said after the match. "I think my luck just kind of run out 
see DASSO/page 18 Monday, Sepcemher 25, 2000 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Belles 
•
Will 1-0 thriller 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Spores Writer 

Veteran-scorer Heather Muth put away the winning goal for tho Belles on Saturday in a 1-0 owr­ti me victorv ovor tho /\drian Bulldogs in a ·match that was just a litlle too clos1~ for comfort for the B,illes. 
The overtime goal was reminis­cent of a similar Belles victory last year, when Muth scored with one minute left in sudden-death dou­ble overtime against the Bulldogs. 
"Heather had most of our shots." Stephanie Artnak said. Artnak is now tied with Muth at the top of the Belles scoring list. "She had a bunch of brnakaways. It was such swer,t justico that she scored [the winning goal!." 
Muth saved her team and coach some stress by completing her goal a littlo earlier than last year's shot. Fivn minutes into the first and final overtimn, Muth dribblnd to her Jell and took a shot from 20 feet out. The ball hooked right and found the uppnr right cornor of tlw Adrian goal, slipping past Bulldogs' goalie Sarah Moulik, who also let Muth's game-winrn1r by in the 1999 Belles win. 
"[Muthl playnd forward this game," Artnak said. "She wa-; the strongest player in the game." 
Muth led the team in shooting a'i well as scoring, taking 10 of the team's 23 shot<;. 
"I was just glad to br. ab]() to put the ball in the net," Muth said. "Everyone had plenty of shot<; on goal. If I hadn't put it in, I am con­fident another player on our team would have." 
The Belles dominated the game, a'i goalie Tia Kapphahn and her dofensive corps allowed Adrian just 10 shot'i on goal. 
"We had a lot of scoring chances that hit the crossbar or the post<;," Artnak said. "They had a rnally good goalie. Sim was. tlwir strongest player by far." 
Muth, who !'aced Moulik last year, thought Moulik had improved since the 1999 match. 
"The goalie from Adrian was amazing," Muth said. "She was thn best keeper we have laced all year. We had high shots, low shotc;, corner shots -but she got lo them all. I was so f'rustratod, because no matter whr.n! I put the ball, she was right there. She made the gamn a challenge." 
All in all, it was one of the best games of the snason for the Belles, who have at times struggled to win despite dominating the game. The 
see OVERTIME/page 14 
JC at Calvin at Albion vs. Villanova 
Tuesday, 5 p.m. ~ Wednesday, 12 noon Friday, 7 p.m. 
SPORTS 
ATA 

Golf vs. Sewn Hall vs. Pittsburgh 
vs. Albion friday, 5:30 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
'if
GLANCE fl 
Tuesday, 6 p.m. 




