_
_________.____________________ 
Let the race begin 
The Observer asks the presidential tickets the tough questions and finds out their stances on the issues. 
Election Coverage . page 6-7 

THE 
MULTICULTURAL 
Panel: Diversity at ND presents challenges 
By KATE STEER 
Assisrnnr News Ediror 
The Notrn Dame community has ils work 1,;ut out for it whnn it conrns to div11rsity. 
According to tlrn eight pan­elisls in the "Colors of the World" prnsentation Wednesday, r-.:otrn Dame pre­sents a myriad of challenges for minority and majority stu­dt>nts alikP. 
As part ol' the weeklong Marlin Luther King Jr. cele­bration. the panel brought together students of various rthnic and racial back­grounds to offer their person­al insights of Notre Dame and diversity. 
Mike Brown, a junior, chose Notre Dame without visiting tlw rampus. llis exp1~ctations for lifo on campus were based on the statistics he read in college guidebooks. 
"! went based on the maga­zine," he said, "and I didn't expect too many minorities to be on campus." 
Other students visited cam­pus as part of recruitment programs and had opposite impressions of the University. 
"I came on recruit weekend. and I sa'i\· more minorities than I have ever seen. Then ,-11hen I cam1! back that first W(!ek or school. I was like 'Where'd they all go'?"' said Sharon Watson, a sophomore 
Elian reunites with grandmothers 
Another chapter was added to the Gonzalez saga Wednesday as the 6-year-old met his grandmothers at a neutral site. 
WorldNation . page 5 


from Tulsa, Okla. 
Watson's parents, whom she called "mixed," came to the United States in the 1970s and settled in a predominant­ly white area of Tulsa. Watson's experiences as a minority began early, and the 

http://www.mccain2000.com
BACKGROUND 
*I967-1972: During an air raid on Hanoi, becomes a POW in what soldiers called the ·'Hanoi Hilton" 
*1982-1986: Represented Arizona in the House of Representatives 
*1986-present: Represented Arizona as U.S_, Senator 
"Congress has found the funds to raise their own salaries, but they can't find enough to help lower and middle-income Americans," 
-John McCain 


recruitment weekend gave her the impression that Notre Dame offered a more diverse environment. 
Meghan Healy, a junior biology major, grew up with experiences in the white Africa. "When I was applying to colleges, I didn't think race was going to be a big deal. and I expected normal inter­action among different groups," she said. 
minority of Brazil and West see DIVERSITY/page 4 



McCain disputes old politics 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Associate News Editor 
Riding his campaign bus, the "Straight Talk Express," across the country, Republican presi­dential candidate John McCain has made it clear he doesn't play within political party lines. 
Known for arguing with Republican colleagues in Congress, the Arizona senator holds many characteristics of traditional conservatives but bucks the GOP on various issues. This hasn't earned him many points among the Republican party faithful, and could hurt his chances to win the Republican presidential nomination. 
Leading the fight for campaign finance reform, which most Republicans bitterly oppose has distanced him from some con­servative voters, said Patricia Fav.'l, communications director of the Alexandria, Va.-based American Conservative Union. 
"Although his chances in the New Hampshire primary are fairly strong, conservatives have political system and make sure taken issue with McCain over American citizens' best interests First Amendment rights related are represented over those of to campaign finance reform," special interest groups. Fava said. "He is, in effect, alien­"You take away the big ating conservatives with his money, you're going to take 
stances on 
s o m e 
issues." 
McCain, who co­sponsored a cam­p a i g n finance reform bill with Sen. R u s s Feingold (D-Wisc.) addressed 
"You take away the big money, you're going to take away their power. and you 're going to break that iron triangle oflobbyists, big money and influence over the legislative process. " 
John McCain presidential candidate 
the issue in a Dec. 7 Republican debate. 
The McCain-Feingold bill called for banning unlimited contributions that corporations, lobbyists and unions can give to national parties, 
In the debate, McCain argued that campaign finance reform is the only way to clean up the 
Thursday 
JANUARY 27, 2000 
New plan 
•


increases college aid 
By ERIN PIROUTEK Assistant News Editor 
With college tuition rapidly outpacing the rate of infla­tion, financial worries rank with chemistry tests as major sources of stress for many students. Especially at private institutions like Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, students and their families often make great sacrifices to afford edu­cation. 
Help may be on the way. 

In a press conference last week, President Bill Clinton unveiled plans to help stu­dents pay for higher educa­tion. 
"When we make college more affordable, we make the. American dream more achievable," Clinton said. 
The plan's central compo­nent is the "College Opportunity Tax Cut." Phased in over 10 years, the $30 bil­lion program would provide an average of $10,000 in tax deductions per middle class family as well as a possible $2,800 in tax credits for each student. 
The plan also removes the 60-month limit for deducting 
see EDUCATION/page 8 
a w a y t h e i r power, a n d you're going to break that iron triangle of lobby­ists. big money and influ­ence over the leg­

islative process that has embar­rassed so many of us," McCain said. 
In a January debate in South Carolina, Republican presiden­tial candidate George W. Bush argued that McCain's campaign finance reform bill would hurt 
see MCCAIN/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, January 27, 2000 

INSIDE COLUMN 




Tumbling Dovvn 
1fell down the stairs in DeBartolo. 
There's nothing quite so embarrassing as falling down stairs. H's like screaming, "Look! I don't know how to walk1 I'm incapable of 
putting one foot in front of the other! J don't know how light switches work either!" I felt like I was back in high school, a freshman falling on the senior stairs. 
But in my defense, the stairs were slippPry with all the melted snow carried in on people's boots. Anyway. it was at 3: 15 on a Tuesday afternoon, when lhe halls were full of masses of stu­dents rushing to get out of DeBartolo. I slipped, my feet went out from under me, and I took a beautiful fall -an arms-in-the-air, limbs-flying, hip-banging, 

Laura Patelle 
assistant 
managing 
editor 

arm-whacking sort of fall. Uhurl. It startled me. Why was I suddenly on my butt when sec­
onds ago I was walking down the stairs like a 
normal person'? 

The stairs were packed with people, a verita­ble sea of humanity. It took me a minute lo gel reoriented. to regain my feet (and my dignity) and to continue on my way. 
A couple of my fellow students snickered at my plight. But everyone else hurried on to the next class. Not a single person offered me a hand up. Not a single person asked, "Are you okay?" NOT A SINGLE PERSON. Not one of my fellow Domers could be bothered to take a minute out of his busy day and offer me a hand or inquire if I needed help. I was just another obstacle in the day, just one more thing to be hurried past and stepped around. Most people didn't even bother to look at me. 
Now, granted, this is a small incident. ff I had seen me fall. I probably would have laughed. It was funny. It's a natural human reaction to laugh when someone falls. But it's also a natur­al human reaction to ask. "Are you all right?" 
There's this story of a class of divinity stu­dents who had the room assignment changed for their final exam. As they rushed to the other side of campus to make the final on time, they were stopped by a homeless person asking for change. :'lot a single person stopped. They all arrived at their final to discover that that WAS their final, and none of them had passed. 
I'm told the story's apocryphal. But it makes a good point. 
Most of the students who passed me on the stairs were probably involved in volunteer ser­vice -77 percent of Domers are. Lots of them were probably hurrying off to the CSC or to tutoring projects or similar service activities. 
Yet not one of them had the time to offer a hand to me when I fell. Not a single person could turn from their mindless following of the DeBartolo herd to ask ii' I was all right. I sat there with my twisted ankle, wounded dignity and bruised pride, and was startled to discover that nobody was willing to stop and help me to my feet. 
Helping others isn't something you get to schedule from 2 to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Wednesdays. Helping others is something you do when you see limbs flying and bodies falling on the stairs at 3:15 on a Tuesday afternoon in DeBartolo. Or whenever else someone needs it. 
ThP views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Jash Bourgeois Amanda Greco Macrhew Smith 

Graphics 
Courtney Boyle Jose Cuellar 
Sports 

Production 
Karhlecn O'Brien 

Brian Kessler 


Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Amanda Greco 
Liz Lang 
A.J. Boyd 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, publi>hcd Monday rhrough FricL.y ex.cep, dLiring exam and vacation period~. The ObseT\'c-r is a member ofthe" A,;,mci.;1ccd Pre.:.~. AH reproduction rights. arc rcse·rved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/ SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Sunday 
. Concert: Darlene Catello and Dawn Westman, 
2:30 p.m.. Haggar Center, Saint Mary's College 
. Life Choices Program: "I Am Woman: Is Feminism Dead'?," 6:30 a.m., WNDU, channel 16 

Thursday 
. Lecture: "Chinese Women's Art and Values," Lioa Wen, 4 p,m., Hesburgh Auditorium 
. Meet the Candidates: 
forum with candidates, 7 p.m., Haggar Parlor, Saint Mary's College 
Friday 
. Film Festival: Student film f'estival, 7:30 and 
9:45 p.m., Snite Museum 
. Competition: "Play of the Mind," 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College 
Saturday 
. Discussion and 

booksigning: Ralph Mcinerny, philosopher, 2 p.m., Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
. Film Festival: Student Film Festival, 7:30 and 
9:45 p.m., Snite Museum 
Compiled from U-Wire reports



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
LSU dean stabbed at home; student charged 
BATON ROUGE, La. 

A Louisiana State University stu­dent allegedly stabbed the University's dean of students Monday morning, after the student found out he was being investigated for grade tampering, according to Baton Rouge Police. 
Interim dean of students John Baker sent a letter to Marques Smith, 21, informing Smith he was being investigatPd on the charge, said Cpl. Don Kelly. 
The student then allegedly went to Baker's residence at approximately 
7:10 a.m. Monday morning and posed as an FBI agent, Kelly said. 
Baker was backing out of his dri­veway when police said Smith stopped Baker and told him to get out of his car, Kelly said. 
"When [Baker! saw this guy, he realized he was no FBI agent," Kelly 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high lcmpernlures 
H L 
Thursday i)-24 11 Friday ~ 31 21 
Saturday 24 Sunday 24 26 

Q,Q,~88~ (f -~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pr. croudy C/ouay Via Assoeiated Press GraphicsNel 
"When [Baker/ saw this guy, he r.ealized he was no FBI agent." 
Don Kelly 

Baton Rouge police officer 
said. 

Smith stepped between the car and the door, and the two men began to argue, Kelly said. 
When Baker tried to exit his car, the student allegedly pulled out a large kitchen knife, Kelly said. 
Baker and Smith then allegedly fought over the knife, and in the process Baker sustained a stab wound to his neck and Smith received a wound 1.o his arm, Kelly said. 
After the incident, Smith attempt­ed to run away, but one of Baker's neighbors detained him until police arrived, Kelly said. 
Smith, who was taken to Earl K. Long Hospital and treated for a w.ound on his arm. was later released and booked into East Baton Houge Parish Prison, Kelly said. 
Smith, a junior in philosophy, is charged with attempted second degree murder. Kelly said. 
Baker was admitted to Our Lady of' the Lake Medical CenlPr and treated for a stab wound and several cuts to his face and ears, Kelly said. 
Baker was released from the hos­pital Monday morning, according to OLOL. 
Baker has served as the interim dean of students for the university since August 1998. 
Freshman beer-drinking declines 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
Freshmen may be less drunk than ever before -at least according to new research. Alcohol consumption has decreased among freshmen college students, according to a study by the Higher Education Research Institute at the University of' California Los Angeles. This year, the annual study shows the lowest level of freshmen beer drinking in the 34-year history of the survey. Additional findings of the survey were an increase in stress among college freshmen and a high percentage of freshmen who reported being bored in high school. The number of freshmen who drank beer frequently or occasionally was down to 50 percent in 1999, compared to 75 percent in 1981. Liquor and wine rates were 67 percent in 1987, when the question was first asked, and have now fallen to 54 percent. Kareen Johannessen, University of Arizona director of health promotion and preventive services, said University of Arizona freshmen drinking has dropped by 20 percent in a survey done last year. This figure is based on five or more drinks in the last two weeks in one sitting, she added. 
Breakers spring for cash in rip-off 
BOSTON 

The glossy travel brochure on Bobi Slabin's lunch table showed beautiful young men and women sun­bathing on white beaches, relaxing under a clear blue sky. Her spring break, the literature promised, could resemble this pictured paradise -for few hundred dollars. However, Slabin, a College of Arts and Sciences freshman at Boston University, was unim­pressed. "There's no such thing as a free lunch," she said. "It seems sketchy. It's just too good to be true." Rachel Brasier, who works for Touraine Vacations and Cruises, agreed. Students eager to get away for spring break, she said, can be easily attracted to tour packages promising cheap vacations full of amenities. Many packages include meal plans, parties, nightclub admission and drink coupons. But there can be trou­ble in paradise. According to Brasier, fly-by-night firms often stuff their brochures with bonuses to com­pensate for a shoddy vacation package. "They're cheaper for a reason," Braiser said. In the past, Brasier has encountered problems with spring break tour operators, whose vacations become nightmares. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

.&-a..
......... ~ 

CO 2000 AccuWealhor, Jnc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
@"''."'© . [2:] High Low Showers Aaln v,.i Assoc'8ted Press  IT}] T-alorma  ruJ Flurries  [&] Snow  8] lee  . ~\'Ii' Sunny Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Atlanta Buffalo Boston Chicago Dallas  43 14 25 29 37  28 6 12 17 30  Fredonia Houston Las Vegas Memphis New York  13 58 62 35 27  6 46 41 26 16  Orchard Park Philadelphia St. Louis Tampa Wash DC  14 26 26 58 30  6 13 17 44 14  

Thursday, January 27, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

====================================================================================================================================== 




Senate: Mass campaign e-mail violates bylaws 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assisr,mr News Edimr 
CandiclatPs for studPnt body nlnctions cannot us<' e-mail t;i dirertly communicate with vot­r,rs. dorm rr.prr,scntatives d1icided at Wednesday's Studfmt Senate meeting. 
Judicial Council president Kelly Folks presented her com­mitwe·s bylaw regarding e-mail Hngulations in support of the rr,solution. 
"The prnblem uf abusing e­mail has not been an issue yet becausP n-mail simply hasn't lwnn around," Fulks said. "Now f'Vnrvone ass11mes r,vervonc has e-mail and thcrnf'orc it can be a.bused easily. Candidates have th!' option of talking to people personally or making a public appearance, but soliciting votes by e-mail is not allowed." 
Candidates running for oflice am nncouragPd to create a \Vpb site> and th(rn Urn Judicial Council will send out an e-mail Lo nolif'v students of tlrnse vari­ous Web sitrs, Folks said. 
Senators reaelions varied regarding thP proposal 
"My personal opinion is that if people want to sit around and typP. in each individual address ,rnd waste that much time, they should be allowed," said Welsh Family Hall senator Candice Marcum. "People then have the option to click on it, delete it, and never have to even read 
it... 
Other senators disagreed, 
saying e-mail should not be 
used in political campaigns. 
"I back Kelly," said Brian · O'Donoghue, Ke.ough Hall sena­tor. "It is the senate's responsi­bility to ensure that abusing e­
mail does not happen." 
"It is not fair that people who 
don't \Vant these e-mails still 
receive them," said off-campus 
senator Pat Foy. "This is abus­
ing people and thus this issue 
should be made black and 
white. It must be cl.ear because. 
even eliminated all e-mails, 
there will still be issues. We 
have a committt\e assigned to 
this issue, and I support their 
opinion 
O\•erall. almost all senators 
agreed with Foy and 
()'Donoghue and the resolution 
was passed. 

INTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPOR~UNITY 
Open to all majors. SIGN UPS NO\V OPEN 
r-=t1
,C C Jt 1' [ I r O ill 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

CIVIL RIGHTS & 
SOCIAL CHANGE 
SEMINAR Spring Break, March 12-18, 2000. 

THE SEMINAR 

• 
An Experiential Learning Seminar created to provide 

hands-on exposure to the living history of the Civil · Rights Movement in America: 

• 
Travel to Atlanta ,Birmingham, Montgomery & Selma. the sites of historic Civil Rights actions in the 1950's and 1960's. 

• 
Visit students and staff at educational institutions which cultivated the minds and spirits of the Student Leaders of the '60's. 


• Tours of the King Center in Atlanta, the National Civil Rights Institute in Birmingham. the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery. 
• The Seminar connects the past with the future by stimulating ideas and conversation about today's society 30+ years after the Civii Rights Movement. 

INFORMATION SESSIONS 
Thursday, January 27, 2000 
6:00-6:30 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
Monday, January 31, 2000 7:00-7:30 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
Further Information: 


APPLICATIONS 
Available at the CSC 
DUE DATE: (Preferred) Friday, Jan 28, 2000 
(Final): Monday. Feb. 7, 2000 
Deposil: $40 of $125 fee due with application: check ormoney order ONLY; payable to the Center for Social Concerns (if accepted non­
refundable), 

Jay Caponigro al the CSC@ 631-5293 

The senate also discussed Saint Mary's reaction to The Observer's role as an indepen­dent publication. 
"Since this is not a black-and­white issue, the Saint Mary_'s student government was hesi­tant to comment until we had some clarification as to how the College's administration viewed our position on this issue," said Saint Mary's/Notre Dame liai­son Maureen Donovan in a pre­pared statement. 
The College administration perceives Saint Mary's role as a secondary one of subscriber and contributor to the newspa­per, Donovan explained. "But The Observer's declared 'inde­pendent' newspaper is never totally independent because it exists because the University is there. A college newspaper is more of a laboratory of those who wish to practice the craft of journalism. Therefore, it is not without the need for super­vision to some extent," _ 

Donovan explained that Notre Dame has a different relation­ship with The Observer than Saint Mary's, whose role will remain secondary because it does not provide the same resources as Notre Dame. 
"In response to the restric­tions being placed on The Observer's advertising policy, the Saint Mary's College admin­istrators told our student gov­ernment that they would not discourage the student body to exercise their personal rights to express their views, as sub­scribers on this issue in the form of editorials, et cetera," Donovan said. "However, the administration did not feel that it was their responsil;lility to comment on an issue that defines The Observer's rela­tionship with the University of Notre Dame." 
In other senate news: 
. 
Vice president Michael Palumbo noted that student government lacks a Saf'eRide coordinator. As soon as one is hired, SafeRide will be up and running, he said. 

"If we could get a coordinator and get drivers trained, we could be up and running next week; but that is ideal," Palumbo said. 'To give you our honest opinion, it's really in the preliminary stage." 

. 
Palumbo also said the online book sale is awaiting help from the Office of Information Technologies. "It is a little stag," he said, "but we're trying to get it started up again." 

. 
Emily Todd, Hall Presiden.ts' Council liaison to the senate, announced that HPC's date week will be Feb. 21 through 27. "This semester we have extra money and we are asking dorms to sponsor separate events," she explained. "Thus, these will be held on campus and more stu­dents will be able to attend." 


Please i,4ecycle The Obsei,4ve~. 

"Superlative Millennial Dance music" Judge #5, South Bend Battle of the Bands Umphrey's McGee at the State Theatre 212 1/2 S. Michigan St. 21+ Early Showl · 9pm-12am Friday night Come for the dancin~ stay for the pie! (our last show in The Bend 'til March) www ,urnphreys,com  



page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 27, 2000 
issues," said Patrick Pierce, associate profe·ssor of political



McCain 

science at Saint Mary's. "McCain is a real maverick kind of guy, 
continued from page 1 

but the Republican party is not a the Hepublican party and con­maverick kind of party. He has se1·vative interests. taken a lot of issue stances that 
McCain responded, demon­will alienate the conservative strating his willingness to grr core and the Republican party against party politics and said, rank and file." . 
'Tve always thought that what's The McCain campaign ignored best for the the Iowa country is hest Caucus and
''I've always thought
for the party," instead rocusPd 
Taking un that what's bestfor the its energies on issues that the country is best for the the Feb.1 New 
Republican Hampshire pri­
party."
party vehe­mary. mently opposes It appears could hamper John McCain N e w 
McCain's Hampshire
presidential candidate 
conservative winning the voters like Republican presidential nomina­McCain's politics. tion. A Jan. 25 CNN poll shows that "All along orn1 of the things 45 percent New Hampshire 
that has been a problem is his Hepublican voters would vote for tendency to go against the McCain with only .33 percent Hepublican party on certain voting for rival Bush. 
chances for 




Latin A01erican progra01 creates new understanding 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 2000 D 10 S<QMETJR!I:NG DIFFERENT THIS SUMMER .. Deadlines for summer credit e~rnin.'g progr,a.m! ~ ACCION ­FEBRUARY 17, 2000 ~~ WATCH FOR INFORMATION MEETING TIME COMING SOON/ ~~ LEADERSHIP OOERNS-FEBRUARY 21, 2000 ~ • AFRTCAN AMERICAN • HISPANTC INFORMATION MEF:ITNG: WttER.£: CENTER FOR Soc.JAL CoNCERNS (COFFEE HousE) WHEN: MONDAY, JANUARY 31 TTME: 7:30 PM -8 PM e-INTERNATIONAL SUMMER SERVICE PROGRAM ~ (DEADLINE PAST) ~ SUMMER 5ER~CE PROJECTS-JANUARY 28, 2000 INFORMATION AND APrUCATIONS FOR ALL PROGRAMS ARE AVAILABLE AND DUE AT THE CENTER FOR SocIAL CONCERNS  

By l'vlAUREEN SMITHE 
Assistanr News Editor 

When Isabel Jakob arrived in the United States in 1981, she was fleeing a civil war in her home country of El Salvador. 
"The Spanish Civil War had lasted three years, so when l left two years into the civil war in my country, I figured I would go to the United States for a year or two until the war was over," Jakob said. · 
However, the civil war in El Salvador lasted another 13 years, and Jakob was settled in America by the time it was over. Now a Spanish professor at Notre Dame, Jakob met with several colleagues to support the new Latin American Area Studies Program (LAASP). funded by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
ln a reception Tuesday cele­Mexico and Chile. brating the Program's incep­"We can celebrate and help tion, Father Tim Scully, vice one another understand the president and senior associate life of another culture," Scully provost, talked about how the said. LAASP will "form a community Fran Hagopian, acting direc­of people who are willing to tor of the Kellogg Institute, 
s h are experi­ences, scholar­ship and ideas." 
T h e goals of the pro­gram are f a r ­reaching a n d include develop­

ing research grants, internship like LAASP," she said. "It is opportunities in Washington, exactly the type of thing we D.C, Minneapolis and Mexico 
and-foreign study programs in 

AMPUS -WID 



DANC PA 
SATURDAY, JANUARY 29th 9PM-1 AM ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 



FREE FOOD AND DRINKS!
I I I NO COVER!!!! 
/SMC ID REQUIRED...ALL AGES WELCOM ~· 
S-POJ'l36PJ;D 'BY STLJDEJ'lTAc-JlVIT1E5 QFFl(E 


found it a real "/ am convinced that the pleasure 
United States -especially to have 
faculty

among educated people and 
and stu­

Catholics -should get much d e n t s more involved with our Latin interested 
in this
American neighbors.,, 
program. 
"Every Father Patrick Gaffney university should

anthropology professor 
have a program 
should be doing." 

LAASP will look closely at all Latin American countries, including Brazil, where, unlike most Latin American coun­tries, Portuguese is the-nation­al language. 
Notre Dame Portuguese pro­fessor Ana Maria Goulet and visitor Sandra Teixeira stressed the importance of Brazil's impact in Latin America. 
"Brazil is the biggest country in Latin America, and I want more people to know about it," Goulet said. "This prograII). will give more exposure to Latin American students and open up their horizons." 
"I moved to South Bend 18 months ago from Brazil and I am very interested in the insti­tute," Teixeira said. "We can 
not neglect the importance of Latin America." 
Many faculty members from departments not involved in Latin America were on hand for the reception. American studies professor Susan Ohmer noted the program's ability to unite people. 
Anthropology professor Father Patrick Gaffney agreed. 
"I am convinced that the United States -especially among educated people and Catholics -should get much more involved with our Latin American neighbors," he said. "The history of indifference has isolated many English­speaking Americans from eco­nomic opportunity and politi­cal possibilities. This program gets students involved and that is something very important." 


orld 


Thursday, January 27, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSEHVER \VIHE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Blix becomes Iraq's lead weapons inspector 
UNITED NATIONS 
llans Blix. the rc1tirnd chief of thfl U.N. nui:lcar watchdog agency. is slated to bccomfl the n1•w load U.N. weapons inspector for lraq -a r.ompromisc appointment that raised questions Wednesday 1~-ven before il was for­malized. Tlw Sncurity Council gave its unani­mous approval to tlrn Swede after a tortuous month of negotiation to f1nd a candidate all 15 nwmhPrs rould agrPP on. Arter consultations WPJucsJuv morning. U.S. Amb,tssador Hirhard I lolhrook(\ ,rn1111unc1•d that ronsensus had bl'('l1 r11,u·h r1d and Secretarv-Gencral Kofi Annan formally nominatf'd Bllx. "L<1t thosr. whn saw divisili'ns in the inlf'\rnational commn­nily know lhat I am speaking now rm behalf of a unitrd. unanimous SHurilv Couneil." said llolbrookP. thP n11-rf'nt rot;ncil prnsident. llussia. r:ran!'.I' and China last week rejcr,ted .l\nnan's tirst nominer\, Bolf Ekeus. who head­Pd the· first inspection agrncy in Iraq until he b<icanw Swl'df'n's U.S. ambassador in 1997. France prnposPd Blix in a bid to compromise ,rnd tlw United Stal!1s lukewarmly went along !'or thP sakr' of ronsPnsus. diplomats said. 
Mexico receives upbeat drug evaluation 
MEXICO CITY 
Citing improvements in ter.hnology, strategy and rnordination. top f\foxiran offir.ials gave an upbeat evaluation \VPdnPsday of their fight ag,linsl drug smuggling and said they were more than doubling thPir spending on the bat­tle. But it was undear what effect their strug­gln has had on the availability of drugs. For tht> first time in yr.ars. Mexiro doesn't have lo worry much about winning "certification" in the United States' annual rvaluation of coun­tries' cooprration in combatting drugs. Secrt>tary of State Madeleine Albright said this month that cooperation has been "at a very good lr.vel." So in the Mexican government's annual report on the progress of anti-drug efforts. officials delivered a barrage of figures and plans they said showed they have come far in 1999. 
British lawmaker dies at age 82 
LONDON 
Former lawmaker Willie Hamilton, a flinty republican who missed few opportunities to lambast the royal family, has died at 82. funeral organiZPrs said Wednesday. Hamilton dird at a hospital in Linwln. eastern England, early on Sunday, funeral director Danny Docherty said. The cause of death was not given. Ilamiiton rnpresented the Scottish dis­tricts of Wr,st r:m,. and then Fife Central. for the Labor Party in the House of Commons from 1951 until his retirement in 1987. 
l1fEiildlitttNiMWti
Dow 
AMEx: 
912.21 

./ONES -3-15 

Nasdaq: 4069.91 -97.50 
NVSE 
628.4.3 +360 


S&P 500: Composite 1404.09 
Volume:
11032.99 1.073,700,000
-5.94 



VOLUME LEADERS 

CQM.2111:i:X Ill:lf.ift ~ CliiAtii.~ • ~HlatKii: li:lU,E 
QlJALCOMIII  iNC  QCOII  -U.31ii  -l4,.J8U  12•. 62  
?~GING NETWO!l.!t  fAGE  +ll-138  1'0,:L213  l.'9i  
COMiJ.Q '-""OM'iU'rE"­MCI WOM.bCOM IN  ~•<l ""°"  ~6.94 -1.,n  -2 .1'100 -1. 4..97S  l'&.!ij u.,s  
MICROSOFT C'OKP  MSFT  -3 .34.  -3.4325  99 ."}8  
INTEL COR.P OM-CLE CORF  !NTC! ORCL  ~4. 98 -2.u  -5.06'25 -1.3775  96 .so 55.06  
iPICOR SOi'TWAR.i.  .iPlC  +38, 79  ..2.5156  !LOO  
LUC'BNT TBCH INC  LU  +O. 5&  •0. 3125  56. 00  
LOCH HAll.US TN,("  !,O('ft  +fO. 57  . 0 ..000  1.,49  

SWEDEN 

Associated Press  "In another few years, · the generation of the  in Europe and said increased international  Swedish Prime Minister Goeran Persson. who was  
STOCKHOLM In the first such interna­tional gathering of its kind, world leaders and activists came together Wednesday to keep the memory of the Holocaust alive in the face of rising neo-Nazism. Prompted by a lack of awareness among youth, the Swedish government organized the forum as part of a Holocaust educa­tion campaign in its own country. Six million Jews and 5 million others -including Gypsies and homosexuals -were killed during World War II at the hands of Nazi Germany and its support­ers.  Holocaust, the living wit­nesses, will be gone," Israel's Prime Minister Ehud Barak told some 600 delegates. "Even now, Holocaust deniers and neo-Nazis ... are operat­ing in the open." As he spoke, three neo­Nazis were on trial in the southern Swedish city of Helsingborg, charged with distributing racist videos and compact discs. German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said that education was imper­ative "so that ordinary people shall never again ... turn ordinary places into execution chambers," Schroeder, speaking in German, warned against the spread of Neo-Nazism  cooperation and the use of police and the judiciary were needed to fight racism. The three-day confer­ence opened with Holocaust survivor Tana Ross. who read a poem about the need to speak out. The meeting was the first of its kind to bring together world leaders and activists to discuss the Holocaust. and Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel sug­gested Sweden make it an annual event. "Why not declare that this is only the first," he said. "From now on have an annual Stockholm con­ference on humanity and conscience."  applauded by the forum for inroads he has made in World War II education, agreed to work to create an annual forum. "The danger lies in our failure to learn from histo­ry; our failure to see the connection," Persson said. The conference comes at a time when Sweden is reevaluating its wartime role and confronting inr.reasingly visible neo­Nazi activity. A 1997 sur­vey showed that nearly one-third of youths between the ages of 12 and 18 did not believe the Holocaust happened. However, questions have been raised recently about the survey's numbers and the way it was conducted.  

Gonzalez reunites with grandmothers 
in Miami want him to stay and are Some cheered and others booed as
Associated Press 
fighting a U.S. government order the grandmothers were driven by. 
sending him back. The grandmothers had also flown 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. 

The grandmothers were to see to Miami on Monday but left town Elian Gonzalez was finally reunit­Elian privately, with the boy's without seeing Elian. The Miami ed with his grandmothers 
Florida relatives nearby in the relatives insisted that any reunion 
Wednesday at a "neutral site" that house. Elian's father, in a letter take place at their home in the had to be arranged by the U.S. gov­printed in the Communist Party Little Havana neighborhood, but ernment because of the personal 
newspaper Granma. asked to be the grandmothers said they were and political passions swirling 
included in the reunion by telephone. uncomfortable going there. Anti­around the 6-year-old Cuban boy. Justice Department spokeswoman Castro Cuban immigrants have Elian was driven to a nun's house Carole Florman said the women been holding protests around the in Miami Beach to see his grand­
would not be allowed to take the boy home. 
mothers, who had flown in from 
home with them afterward. A lawver After long negotiations. the Washington and were then brought for Elian's relatives, Spencer Eig, Justice Department ordered Elian's to the home in a helicopter. 
said the visit was expected to last relatives to bring him to the nun's 
The grandmothers came to the 
two hours. house. The agency said it had the United States last week to appeal A few people tossed flowers at the authority to do so under the to the American people and 
car that took the women from the arrangement letting the boy stay in Congress to send the boy back to 
helicopter to the house, where about this country pending further immi­his father in Cuba. Elian's relatives 
200 demonstrators waited outside. gration proceedings. 
BOARD OF ERNANCE 
page 6 Thursday, January 27, 2000 
Simplicity is key for Renner/Nagle campaign 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saine Mary's Editor 

Crissie Renner and Michelle Nagle may not have included several objectives in their election platform, but as the saying goes, less is more. 
Including only five objectives that span campus wido, the Renner/Nagle Ucket's goal is to increase campus-wide com­munication. starting with Board of Governance. 
"When studl'nts look at our platform, they may only sec five goals and ask why," Nagle said. "Behind each one of these goals is an incredible amount of research. These are feasible. Wo know that we can make them happen." 
Renner noticed a lack of consistent communication between governing boards during her three-year tenure on Board of Governance. 
"It seems right now that people are distant, and a little hazy about what's going on around campus," Renner said. "Often, among BOG, Student Activities Board, Student Academic Council. and Residence Hall Association, I feel like we're competing for that same audience." 
As a solution, Renner and Nagle have proposed bi-week­ly meetings of representatives from alt campus governing boards, forming "synergy" among the boards to increase attendance and quality at campus events. 
Secondly, the team has pro­posed a programming com­missioner for BOG, who would handle the organization of Pride Week, Winter Carnival and other special events throughout the year. 
"It it is difficult for one per­son with other responsibilities to give 100 percent Ito !'ride Weeki," Nagle said. 
By turning over rosponsibili­ties to the programming com­missioner, they hope to include an odds/evens class powder puff game, a campus wide prayer service, a battle of the bands. and potentially incorporate Midnight Madness into the week. 
"Pride Week was a tremen­dous success, but we didn't feel that it met its full poten­tial," Renner said. 
The pair also introduced the possibility of restructuring the current meal plan, adding more "Munch Money" for use at Haggar Crossings. 
The ticket has received the go-ahead for complimentary guest passes, which would allow students to bring one guest per semester free of charge to eat in Noble Family Dining Hall. 
The team also investigated expanding library and postal hours to make them more accessible for student. After 
····&-½.. 

.... .. Ja~for~'.-il"''~-:;,ts
.. ,. JK.:··· .,_ 
./;;,· 
Most feasible idea 
adding programming
commissioner to BOU 
Least feasible idea 
adding mo,;e.Mimch
Money to ,rff}<tlplan · 
The final•· word 
While not as ambitious 
as other candidates, 
Nagle and Renner have 
attainable, practical, 
a·.nd relevant goals for 
the SMC community. 
meeting with library direc­tors. a trial period before midterm exams could clear up speculation that students aren't interested in the expanded hours. 
As far as including more on their platform, Renner and Nagle are careful to point out that their platform will con­tinually develop as the year progresses. 
"What the students believe in, we believe in," Nagle said. "We know our resources, and we know how to execute things. Board of Governance has a huge impact on cam­pus. We want to bring under­standing about who we are to students." 

Koelsch/Rodarte fight to find delicate balance 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
Presidential candidate Emily Koelsch and vice presi­dential candidate Rachele Rodarte want to stay away from big ideas. 
"[Board of Governance] has done a great job doing new things this year," said Koelsch, who has served as the commissioner for women's issues the past two years. "The big ideas have really come out. Pride Week was bigger and better, we're planning a new Winter Carnival. What we want to do now is take things that arc already on this campus and take them to the next level." 
The duo seeks to improve is the Women's Resource Center. currently located in the basement of Le Mans Ilall. The Koelsch/Rodarte platform contains a proposal that would redefine the cen­ter, potentially integrating it into the ongoing Campus Master Plan. 
"As a women's college, something is missing if you don't have a place where you can go, as a woman, and ask for help," Rodarte said. "It seems like we need an area to promote that." 
The ticket also hopes to expand the alumnae-endorsed application 
Platform•··Highlights 

Most 
stude rsed 
applitQ.tton · 
Least fea$ible idea 
Koels,
havet al··· 
ate . . ... 
attentif:m~ 
iticli,as the 
worn 
stu 
cha 
·. awh"i 
t, 4fa!,• 
process, extending the idea of a student-endorsed appli­cation 
"We want to have a way for students to go into the com­munitv and recruit," Koelsch said. ''When you have a stu­dent who has endorsed your application on campus, that's a powerful connec­tion." 
Iletaining students was also a campus concern for the ticket, who looks to spin off September's Senior Celebration and formulate class traditions to create a more cohesive experience during a student's four 
years, including a junior ring blessing, sophomore abroad care package pro­gram and a first-year wrap up event. 
"It seems that we come together for orientation, and then we graduate, and there's nothing in between," Rodarte said. 
While the platform is dom­inated by smaller ideas, they also have big plans, one of which is a cable TV station. 
"We have the satellites and wiring all over campus for a cable station already. This is something we can do," Rodarte said. 
But while the pair came up short with specifics or fund­ing proposals for the project, they did express hope of inte­grating it into the College curriculum through the com­munications department. 
Overall, concern for com­bining spirit, academics, and community to bring Saint ~1ary's into lhe millennium and to the next level are their goals, Koelsch and Rodarte said. 
"Emily and I come from completely opposite ends of the spectrum," Rodarte said. "Because we have different perspectives of' tho school, we feel W<' can put thosP togeth­er for balance, and direct those views to take Saint Mary's to the next level. It's a delicate balance." 


BOARD OF 
ERNANCE 
.<~~·* 

Presidentiii Cµln)aigns 
Thursday, January 27, 2000 page 7 
Koepke/Hollis tackle needs of average student 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saim Marv's Editor 
.!iii Koepke and Desir<m Hollis focus on the little things. 
Assembling thPir leadership experience t'rom smaller lead­erslli p organizalions, such as Ln Mans liall council. VISA IVoluntPcrs in Support of' Admission), the Pridn Week rnmmiltPll and junior class board, tlw Krnipl...dHollis licket pridPs itself nn having a per­spnrtiVP that only the every da) studPnt can lmve. 
"I am a normal. PVPry day st11dm11.'' said I Iollis. "I work in tlw dining hall. l don't have a rnr. I feel !ik,\ it's an advantage tu bring in tlrn perspective of tlw avnragp student." 
Not having any previous (1xpPrienc.ci in Board of GovPrnancn, Koepke said that nnw faces with knowlPdge of every day li!'P at Saint Mary's is an advantage. 
··1rs not that we haven't been involved at all," Koepke said. ··we are two rww faces that anin't the typical BOG faces. While having BOG experience would be nice, it doesn't neces­sarily makP us less qualified." 
One of thn key iniLiatjves Koepke/Hollis look to continue is to build on the tradition of Pride Week. which they said is symbolic of one of the key points of their campaign. 
"One ol' the most important 
Platform H1ghlights: }'l 
Most feasible idea 
l!mpha/i=ing interhafl ' 
¢ompeijtion through 
new intramural 
program support. 
Least feasible idea 
Formal auction 
The final word 
Clearly the platform has 
,pri<;?e forSain( Mary.'s 
in mma ... but ltttle else. 
things is to be proud or the school you go to," Koepke said. "We want to do things to bring the campus together, to improve spirit." 
The ticket plans to support Saint Mary's enhanced intra­mural program and foster more inter-hall competition to increase pride, they said. 
The ticket also targets increased communiction, through e-mail access to BOG and more information distrib­ution through the Web. 
The ticket strongly empha­sizes fundraising activities that will continue to foster spirit, but will also allow petty funds for BOG to use in the event funding is needed. 
One of those proposals is an "Inner Beauty" Pageant, which raises money but also seeks to recognize involved students on campus. 
"A club, organization, or dorm could nominate some­one who is very involved on campus, academics or in activities," Koepke said. "They would have to demon­strate thf1ir inner beauty, ... some funny talent or some­thing else. We want to recog­nize students on campus who aren't recognized," she said. 
Amoug fundraising activi­ties such as capturC' the flag competitions, snowball tights and a dating game to rnplace the discontinued date auction, the ticket also proposes a for­mal auction to raise money. 
"Basically, seniors would donate their formal dresses when they were leaving and by silent auction, students could bid on them," Hollis said. "A lot of students don't have the money to buy new dresses, and no one wants to wear the same one twice." 
The ticket also prides itself on activities that would bring the campus together, such as more twilight tailgates, pic­nics, on-campus movies and more programs with Notre Dame and Holy Cross. 
"Our biggest concern is really bringing this campus together," Koepke said. 


NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

Jill Koepke and Desiree Hollis hope to make school pride a strong theme m their administration. 
Bittner/Banahan illuminate with ideas 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
While typical candidates for student body president and vice president can boast years of Board of Governance experi­ence, neither Missy Bittner nor Molly Banahan can include such credentials on their resume. 
But that, Banahan said, is their advantage. 
"It's when you bring new peo­ple in that the greatest ideas come about," Banahan said. 
Bittner and Banahan, who each hold positions on junior class board and Le Maus Hall council, haw assembled a plat­form that includes more than 20 goals for the year, in areas stemming from Pride Week, multicultural development, spirituality and service and communication improvement, don't bR!icve that the volume nf proposals will hinder any of them from being accomplished. 
"You could say that it's only a year, but you could also say that we have a year to get this dorni. A year is a long time," Bittner said. Bittner and Banahan have already set the ball in motion for sc~cral of their initiatives, one of which is enhancing Pride Weck activities that have become central to celebrating Saint Mary's spirit. 
Banahan contacted the Oprah Winfrey show late in the semes­ter to investigate the possibility of bringing the talk-show host in as a special speaker. 

"Bringing Oprah, a woman who has clearly struggled in life and enjoys celebrating women, would be wonderful because she is a very powerful role model," Bittner said. 
Winfrey, who has a summer home 10 minutes from South Bend, was interested in speak­ing at a women's campus, Banahan said. 
"They said that we had about a 70 percent chance of getting her here," she said. "And that's incredible. Right now, we're just waiting to hear." 
Other initiatives central to the ticket's campaign arc to work to increase communication on campus, which the ticket said is central to keeping students involved. 
Part of their communication package includes initiating a proposal for a campus cable network, 
Other communication propos­als include investigating a call waiting/integrated messaging option that would allow stu­dents to check voice mail, e­mail and faxes on any campus computer. 
"There is a telecommunica­tions switch that has to be replaced within a year," Bittner said. "We can replace it, or we can integrate a new system, Call waiting/integrated messag­ing conld be that new system." 
Platf6rm Highlights 
MtJst feasible idea 
Bringing Oprah Winfrey 
tQ campus was 
. researched .... and 
surprisingly attainable, 
Least feasible idea 
cable TV channel 
The final word 

~~/. 
Thts·ticket is motivated,
but may be biting off 
more than it can chew. 
.And with sq many p_ro­
posals, will there be 
adequate funding 
available? 
Overall, proposals that 

include using detex cards for 
laundry and vending machine 
use, expanding meal plan 
options, including interculturnl 
courses in the core curriculum, 
and Christmas at Saint Mary's 
service projects are all goals 
that can be attained, the ticket 
said. 
"Coming to college, you're 

like a rock thrown into a pond," 
Banahan said. "Some rocks 

make little ripples, others make 
large ones. We're here to make 
large ripples," she said, 
"When we're gone, we want 

the good things that we started 
to shine on," Bittner said. 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 27, 2000 
Diversity 
continued from page l 

Senior Joline Cruz, whose family is of the San Juan Pueblo tribe of' New Mexico said students need to proac­tiveJy seek experi.ences with various cultures and races. 
"If you want to consider this a diverse university, you have to go out and find it, but it's then•," she said. 
The panelists spoke about the progress that they have seim in their college experi­ences. 
"! think I've seen a lot of people learning from each other. People have different opinions about how things are on campus, 
but I'm 

"People have different
starting to Murphy 
recognize opinions about how responded the lssuo things are on campus, to chal­
as an lenges from 
but I'm starting to
important the audi­
one to peo­recognize the issue as an ence lo ple," said take note
important one to people."
J e s s e of the Dang, a minority junior MIS Jesse Dang stereotypes major, who junior of the main element that the pan­elists pointed to as neces­sary and lacking in racial and ethnic relations. 
Diversity is a valued quali­ty of any setting and can be successful if there is an effort. 
Brown, the University's first black leprechaun, said he faced potential problems in this role. 
He was encouraged to pre­pare for stereotypes lhai he might encounter, hut he feels confident that he is prepared for other people's images of the way things should be. 
"What I'm doing now to deal with stereotypes is what I've done in the past; to be myself," said Brown. 
Student 

body presi­
dent Micah 
is first­generation American born lo Vietnamese parents. 
Other members of the group have not had an opportunity to witness change within the Cniversity, such as freshman Scott Kelley. 
Kelley was born in Korea and came to the United States at age 8 to live with adoptive parents after his father died. Despite the lim­ited time that he has spent here, Kelley is aware of the problems that the communi­ty faces. 
Citing his personal rela­tionships, Kelley said com­munication between minori­ties and with the majority is the key to overcoming the barriers. 
Communication was the 
majority by 
offering a method for overcoming stereotypes in a diverse environment. "Comfort zones keep people from reaching out and learning about other cultures. We have to challenge ourselves to step out of these comfort zones and expand our hori­zons." 
Anna Lisa Vargas, former La Alianza executive, agreed. 
"The most important thing is to meet each other in the middle. If we don't do that, we'll never get anywhere." 
The panel was coordinated with student government. The Martin Luther King Jr. celebration will conclude today with a prayer service at 7 p.m. in Keenan­Stanford Chapel. 

r----------------------~ 
: Shorin-Ryu : : Karate l 
I •Discipline ~ I I •Self-Defense I I •Self Confidence I I •Fitness I 1-I 
I I I -I 
I I I I 
1lilllia1i11M• I 
I Register in Advance at RecSports I I For More Info. Call 1-6100 I I Demonstration I I Tuesday, February 1, Rockne Rm. 219 6:30PM I I Re<,~ I I www.nd.e8u/~recsport I 
~----------------------~ 
Education 
continued from page 1 

interest paid on student loans and increases Work-Study funding by $77 million. 
Additionally the maximum Pell Grant, aimed to aid low­
in come  families,  would  
increase  from  $3,300  to  
$3,500.  

Sue Brandt, associate direc­tor of Financial Aid at Notre Dame, applauded this move. 
"They're increasing grant money to the neediest of stu­dents," she said. 
The GEAR UP program, which targets middle school students from low-income families, would receive an additional $125 million. 
The program enlists the sup­port of colleges to provide stu­d en ts with opportunities to eventually receive post-sec­ondary education. 
Brandt noted that the pro­posals cover all phases of col­1e ge education. The Pell Grants help students while they attend school. 
Tax credits benefit students' parents, who often shoulder a large portion of educational costs. 
Making interest tax-deductible helps students repay loans after graduation. 
But students shouldn't rejoice yet. The measures, which will be appended to the administration's fiscal 2001 budget proposal, need Congressional approval -a formidable hurdle in this elec­tion year. 
"Major things will have to wait on the next president and the next Congress," Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R­Miss.) told reporters last Wednesday. 
Despite apparent benefits, Brandt stressed the need to be cautious about approval of the plan. 
"Right now we don't have 
Where is the money going'? 
When President Clinton's "College Opportunity Tax Cut" plan becomes operational in 2003, the money will be divided as follows: 

( all numbers in millions) 

*The program gives a $10,000 tax cut to middle-income families with children in college. 
JOSE CUELLAMhe Observer 

enough information," she said, noting that other programs could potentially be cut to pay for the proposed increases. 
The proposal will expand upon currently available edu­cation tax credits. The Lifetime Learning tax credit is now a $1,000-per-family cred­it that is applicable for any year of post-secondary educa­tion. 
The Hope tax credit ­which remains unchanged in 

Clinton's plan -provides up to $1,500 per student during the first and second years of college. Family inr.ome deter­mines eligibility for the cred­its. 
There is little that student aid offices at universities can do to influence Congressional votes on Clinton's proposal, hut they are able to help stu­dents make the greatest possi­ble use of existing aid pro­grams. 

Looking for an 1n1ernshiPP 


SlaltWllh 
Virtualintern.com 
111, bell darn l¦ter•hlP PIIC1118nl Wlb sill vu• Cid fBldl 
Be .nm: to cl11dt us out ot rht 2()()0 Sum,nu J11ternshlp l<'llir tod1,y ftor,i noo11 to ,pm at 1/111 JACCI 
Elections!! 
Are you interested in running for 
Student Body PresidentNice President 
for the 2000-2001 school year? 
If so, please come to an informational meeting on 
Monday, January 31, 2000 at8pm In the Notre Dame Room 
on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center 
At least one member of each ticket should attend. If you are unable to attend, or have any questions, please contact Becky Demko, Judicial Council Vice President at 631-4556. 
~ .. ..:1!'-f-1 c~ 
brought to you by : J(..,(,.(,tA...(..MMi 
Thursday, January 27, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
'Play' fosters intellect, leadership 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Ncv-,s Writer 
Creative new ways to shape the new century will spring to life this weekend at Saint Mary's. 
For lO vears. the Plav of the Mind program has challenged students. faculty and adminis­tration to think intellectually. This year's theme. "Intellectuals in Actinn, Shapin){ the New Cr.ntury," slrnsses the rolr.s and responsibilities that college slu­dents and faculty have in the intrllectual world. 
"Play of' the Mind started frum an attempt to help students feel more comfortable when think­ing about ourselves as intellec­tuals and how it affects things outside the classroom." said Patrick White, director of Plav of the Mind since its incrption. · 
Thirteen women's colleges will partir:ipate in this year's festival. Visitors will stay with 175 host students, who worked with faculty and student devel­opment professionals to plan prr.sf\ntations and prepare to !rad group discussions. 
About 30 faculty and adminis• trators will he involved as well. 
"Our mission at Saint Marys is a role of leadership and connec­tion to the rest ofthe world. How can four stu­dents], as intellectuals, as thinking women, make a difference for good. " 
Patrick White director, Play of the Mind 
"I think it helps give our stu­dents an opportunity to meot students from other women's colleges -there an~ only about 80 left," said Georgeanna Rosenbush, conference director since 1994. "It also gives them an opportunity to see what hap­pens on other campuses." 
Intellectual cooperation 
Play of the Mind has alwavs been about intellectual life and leadership. 
"When it was started it was to help students practice ways to be leaders and have an affect on this institution," White said. "! think in the United Slates we're still nervous about the 
.-------------------------­
F 
E 
&INC~SUB! 


WHEN? 3 HOURS ONLY! TONIGHT: 5 -8 PM WHERE? ONE PLACE ONLY! SUBWAY-1706 South Bend Ave 
(Near ND-Next To Welsh Service Ctr) 
Order Your Super Bowl Party Sub Now! 

FREt: 6 lneh Sub \\1ith Purt~ha._~ Of 1"lediu1n Or Larg•, ltrink! 

=PEPSI 
Coupon Required. RegularSum Only(No Dbl MeatorExtraCheese). One FreeSub Per Customer. Not GoodWith Other Offers. Good Only@ 1706South BendAve,Ja.i127th, 2000, 5 -8 PM. 
term intellectual and what it might mean. We accuse intel­lectuals of being dry and not fun, but we're trying to break out of that here." 
The interactions throughout the weekend are especially important. 
"There is a great deal of ener­gy and sense of flow from the participants," White explained. 
Play of the Mind helps give people a sense of encourage­ment and new ideas to plant on their campuses. 
Rosenbush remembers a shy student who attended the con­ference. 
"She came as a shy girl, but Play of the Mind gave her confi­dence to get up and out and do things." Hosenbush said. The girl later got a job for CNN and was "introducing all kinds of people." 
White believes everyone can benefit from Play of the Mind. 
"Our mission at Saint Mary's is a role of leadership and con­nee lion to the rest of the world," he said. "How can lour students]. as intellectuals, as thinking women, make a differ­ence for good." 
Guests from other colleges arrive today, and the confer-
1:'nCf' kicks off tonight with the keynote presentation, "Re­imagining the Intellectual: Facing the future, Seeing the World," in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 7:30. 
Your brain sends 
billions
ofmessag 
to your body every second 


Profs: Under U.S. law, Elian must go 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
News Writer 

Since he was found floating in an inner tube off the Florida coast on Thanksgiving Day, controver· sy over Elian Gonzalez's fate has continued to rage. 
"The law is pretty clear ... he needs to return to Cuba," said Barbara Szweda. profes­sor of immigration law at Notre Dame. 
Although many refugees do receive political asylum because they fear returning to an oppressive culture, the fact remains that Elian needs to prove his case just as any other immigrant would. Szweda explained. In the past, the U.S. has offered immunity to persons perse­cuted in their home country because of religion, ethnicity, nationality, membership in social groups or political opinion, but no one is ever guaranteed admittance into the country. 
Because of the recent well publicized mobilization of both Cuban nationalists and Cuban Americans, Elian's case has developed into a much deeper controversy. 
"He ought to be sent back to his parents," said Benjamin Radcliff, professor of government at Notre Dame. "That is the obvious course that will follow. [This] INS issue has been caught up in the political, as the Cuban population in Miami is trying to use Elian as their own public relations tool." 
"The battle right now is politics versus the law," Szweda said. Elian's relatives in Miami are currently attempting to tie up the courts in order to stall the INS immigration process. Legally, however, Elian's future resides in the hands of his father, his rightful guardian, Szwr.da said. 
Anthony Messina, Notre Dame professor of govern­ment, concurred. 
"The law is on the side of the father," he said. "It's pretty straightforward that there is little legal founding on the decision to keep him in the U.S." 
Elian has been in the U.S. for two months, and concerns are beginning to surface that some type of decision needs to be made quickly. 
"The longer he is here, the more difficult it will be to leave the world of Disney," Messina said. 
American Heart ft 
Associationa~ 
Fighting Heart 01SB8Sil snd Slrol<o 
HERE ARE A FEW YOU SHOULD ALWAYS PAY ATTENTION TO. These are signs of stroke, or brain attack. Get help immediately. Get the message? For more information call 
AHA's STROKE CONNECTION AT 
1-800-553-6321 
C:.1991'1, Amtrictn Hnrl AS$otiii1ion. 

Job Search Workshop 
Resume Development and Interviewing Tips from an Organization that Does On-Campus Recruiting 
Presented by 

Gibson & Associates, Inc. Management Consultants 
http://www.gibsonconsulting.com 
Monday, JaM.uary 31st 
7:00 -8:30 PM Room 112 Center for Continuing Education 
Refreshments will be served I 
All Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students Welcome ! 
page lO 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Thursday, January 27, 2000 

student union 
HAPPENINGS 
STUDENT UNION BOARD www.nd.edu/•sub 
Movie: American Pie 1/27 Thursday 101 DeBartolo 10:30PM Tickets: $2 1/28 Friday 101 DeBartolo 8:00PM & 10:30PM 1/29 Saturday 101 DeBartolo 8:00PM & 10:30PM 
Acousticafe 1/27 Thursday Lafortune Huddle 9:00PM-12:00AM 
CLASS OF 2003 
Valentine's Date Match: Registration 
1/27-28 Thursday & Friday Both Dining Halls 
Banner Signing for Jeff Goett 
2/1 Tuesday North Dining Hall 2/2 Wednesday South Dining Hall 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Candidate Information Meeting: For those interested in Student Body President and Vice President Elections (petitions will be available at this time) 
1/31 Monday Student Government Office 3:00PM-5:00PM (2nd floor Lafortune) 
**Anyone interested in the position of Student Union Calendar Coordinatoror or Safe Ride Coordinator please contact Matt Mamak at 631-7668.** 

Coming this weekend to 101 DeBartolo 
Thursday, January 27, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
ISRAEL 
Palestinians refute newspaper's peace proposal report 
settlements to Israeli sovereignty last week -is a backdown on Palestinian state as part of a the Americans, nor to others, we 
Associakd Press 
in exchange for parts of Israel. It rpfugee policy. final peace deal. didn't even discuss these pro­also reportedly offers joint According to Haaretz, the new Haaretz did not give the posals with the Israelis. ThisJERUSALEM administration of Jerusalem. Palestinian proposal has Israel source of its report. looks like an Israeli trial bal­A Pal-estinian proposal for a Another recognizing the right of Palestinian officials said there loon."
final peace settlement that 
innovation Palestinian refugees whose fore­was no basis to the report, Still, two of the proposals ­includes concessions on Jewish in the pro­bears left Israel during its inde­insisting their bottom line land trades that would allowsettlements and Jerusalem was posal pendence war to return -but remains the same: a return of all some Jewish settlements to
reported Wednesday in an 
reported by not actually allowing such a Palestinian-inhabited land cap­remain under Israeli sovereign­Israeli newspaper -but it was Haaretz to return in practice. tured by Israel in the 1967 ty, and shared administration of
immediately repudiated as 
have been The issue of refugees' right to Mideast War, a capital in east Jerusalem -date back to infor­unfounded by Palestinian offi­unveiled by return to Israel proper is largely Jerusalem. and the unequivocal mal talks held by Israeli Yossicials. 
Palestinian symbolic because Israel is not right of Palestinians to return. Beilin and Palestinian MahmoudAccording to the report in leader expected to allow it in practice. "It's not true at all," said Abbas five years ago. Both men
llaaretz. the proposal cedes 
Vasser However. the refugees are Yasser Abed Rabbo, one of the are now in inlluential positions:some West Bank territory con­Arafat in a expected to be allowed to return two lead Palestinian negotiators. Beilin is Justice Minister andtaining large blocks of Jewish meeting with President Clinton to territories of an eventual "We didn't submit such a plan to Abbas is a top aide to Arafat. 



Saint Mary's College: Wednesday, January 26 3:30 -4:30 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Lobby 
NETHERLANDS 

Tribunal reaches final verdict 
Associated Press 
THE HAGUE 

The first war crimes trial since the post-· World War II prosecutions at Nuremberg and Tokyo came to an end Wednesday after nearly four years of hearings, appeals and cross-appeals. 
U.N. 
judges concluded Dusan Tadic's case by shaving five years off a 25-year sentence given to the Bosnian Serb police reservist for torturing and murdering Muslim and Croat prisoners. 

U.N. 
Chief Prosecutor Carla Del Ponte welcomed the ruling, despite the show of leniency to the 44-year-old nicknamed Dusko. "We are hoping that this is the last the tribunal will hear of Dusko Tadic, that he will be able to start serving his sen­tence," said her spokesman, Paul Risley. 


Tactic's case, which began May 7, 1996, was emblematic of the glacial pace of pro­ceedings at the U.N. tribunal, set up in 1993 to try war crimes suspects from the Balkan conflicts. The tribunal has convict­ed 13 Serbs, Muslims and Croats, but Tadic's case is the only one to have fin­ished the appeals process. And more than 
DO 

DIFFERENT 
TEIIS SUMMER~
At.-,.e 2000 KEENAN REt,<,. 
f ebruary 3, 4, and 5 
Ticket Distribution: 
DO 
SSPI 



This summer is your chance to learn and earn ~­3 credits working with the underserved. ¥
Notre Dame: Thursday, January 27 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 2000 
4-5p.m. 

• 
8 WEEKS OF SERV1CE LEARNING 

• 
$1700 TUITION SCHOLARSHIP


JACC -Gate 10 

• 
VALUABLE ALUMNI CONTACTS 

• 
POSSIBILITY OF EARNING $1100 THROUGH AMERICORP 

• 
3 CREDITS THEOLOGY, WITH POSSIBLE CROSS-LISTS 


30 suspects remain at large, including Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic. 
Summarizing the appeals ruling, Judge Mohammed Shahabuddeen of Guyana said Tactic's conduct "was incontestably heinous" but the original sentence was overly severe given his limited responsibil­ity. 
"His level in the command structure, when compared to that of his superiors, or the very architects of the strategy of eth­nic cleansing, was low," Shahabuddeen said. 
Tadic was given credit for nearly six years spent in pretrial custody. The defen­dant gazed ahead indifferently during the half-hour session. 
Tadic was arrested Feb. 13, 1994, by German police in Munich after refugee!> recognized him from the Omarska and Trnopolje prison camps in northwestern Bosnia. 
In 1993, the world was horrified by pho­tographs of emaciated men behind barbed wire at those camps, evoking images of Jewish prisoners at Nazi death camps in World War II. Under pressure to act, the 
U.N. Security Council set up the tribunal. 
SOMETHING 
• 0vER 200 SITES ACROSS THE U.S.
No lines more than an hour ahead oftime. 2 tickets per ID, one ID per person 

**DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS**:
Tickets are, as always, FREE! 
JANUARY 28"' (FRIDAY) RI 
SOCIAL

CENTER FOR SocrAt CONCERNS ~ 
~ 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page l2 BSERVER Thursday, January 27, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noiro Dame, IN 46556 024 :Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46'.>56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pctclle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen ,Gaughcn SPOIUS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Nmeen Gille,pie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dah1111 
ADVERTISl'lG MANAGER: Bryan Ltm. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Brel Hnelar SYS'fEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMIN15TRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO............. 631-7471 fax................ . ..................................... 631-6927 AflVERTISING.....................................63 !-6900/8840 
observer@daiwin.cc.nd.edu ED!l'OR IN CHIEF.................................... 631-4542 M,\NAG!NG EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OfFICE......................................631-5313 NEWS...................................................... 631-5323 obscn·er.obsnews. l@nd.cd LJ VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS.............................._. .........................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE. ........................................... .......631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edt1 SAJNT MARY'S... .........................................631-4324 
observcr.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO....... ...................................631-8767 SY~H.MS/WEB AuMINISTRATORS ................... 631-88.39 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web sire at hup:/lobserver.nd.edu for da(lv updares ofcampus news, sporrs, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 

movies/mu.sic for minute forecasts 
weather for up-to--the 

wc-ekly ~rudent revi~ 
advertise for policic,,; 

online features for spe­and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer anides published afre1 archives to search for 
m meet rhe editors and 
August 1999 staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the scudcnts of che University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conccm, including advertisements, is not guvemed by policies of Lhe adminisua1ion ofeither instimrion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reponed a;; accurately and objenivcly as possible. Unsigned ediwrials represem the opinion of rhe majority ofthe E<litor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assis1:rnt Managing Editor and depmmenr editors. Commencarics, lelters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily dm,e ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint spare is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to che Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct· ed to Editor in Chief Michelle Krupa. 

With our recent leap into the 21st century comes news that China and the Vatican are at odds over the installation of Catholic bishops. 
China, without Vatican approval or consultations, ordained bishops of their political liking into the Catholic Church. In an obvi­ous and blatant dis­regard of the Holy Sec, politics is dri­ving the Asian country's agenda. Yet the Vatican has remained paralyzed in this outrageously disrespectful assault on the Church. 
Such blatant actions against the Church have historically triggered more than just a luke-warm condemnation as in this instance. Some wonder if the lethargic inaction is an indication that Pope John Paul JI is unable to keep pace with the rigors necessary to lead the Church against major assaults from powerful government officials. 
Critics cite one paradox that immedi­ately comes to mind as a slowing down of the pope. While the Vatican has not forcefully acted against China, last year the Holy See took swift and Jieavy­handed action against Sister Jeannine Gramick, a school sister of Notre Dame, and Salvatorian priest Robert Nugeut, who ministered for 29 years to Urn gay community. The Vatican permanently prohibited !Jle two "from any pastoral work involving homosexual persons" and declared them "ineligible, for an undetermined period, for any office in their respective religious institutes." 
In defending the Vatican's actions, Bishop Joseph Fiorenza of Galveston­Houston said that while Sister Gramick "offers the opinions of others, she does not mention the church's teaching" that homosexual activity is intrinsically dis­ordered "and she confuses theological opinion with authentic church teach­ing." The bishop went on to say that Sister Gramick offered the opinions of moral theologians who hold that, like heterosexual acts, homosexual behav­ior "is good and holy in God's sight when it is an expression of special and unique love which one person has for another." 


Swift and harsh sanctions were' issued over how the rank-and-lile reli­gious carried out Church dogma regarding what is intrinsically evil ver­sus intrinsically 1wil persons. Bishop Fiorenza seems to be supportive of swatting a Gy with a bowling ball in an effort to maintain discipline within the Church ranks. Yet the seriousness of the bishops' elevations in China is met with silence. Not since the. days when popes sold cardinalships to raise cru­sade funds has such perplexing behav­ior come from the Vatican. 
Pope John Paul H was the right man at the right time when elected pope. His roots in oppressed Poland tied into a global movement to crush communism and eliminate the Iron Curtain. lie energized oppressed peoples around the world and greatly contributed to the new world order steeped in freedom. 
In light of the pope's failing health. some question why cardinals arc required to retire while a pope is infal­lible for life. Is the policy another of those "corrected" details, like establish­ing Christmas in late December to coin­cide and compote with the pagan holi­day, that were defined during the early days of the Church? Does anyone really believe that the next pope miraculously somehow changes on the day of his election, or is he, as some contend, the same today -mere years, months or maybe just weeks before he ascends as pope? 
Many wonder why the current pope cannot retire. Modern demands of 21st century society upon the Church, like the current China situation, the AIDS crisis in Africa or starvation in overpop­ulated Third World countries, dictate that the pope be more responsive. Was it Jesus or a pope who decreed that popes serve until death? Wouldn't it strengthen the Church to have a pope emeritus to advise a sitting pope? 
We need not abandon our values while moving towards bold, imaginative responses to world problems, A vast majority of Catholics in the l 970s, along with political leaders like Ronald Reagan, opposed both abortion as well as the use of fetal tissue research. Yet today, through fetal tissue experimen­tation, scientific research, without intrinsically supporting abortion. is close to curing the very disease that will soon claim Reagan's life. Fetal tissue research is now seen by many Catholics as a valuable tool in the fight of disease. 
Each journey into a new millennium carries with it a new set of demands along with a now sot of opportunities. It is easy to rnwrite scripture so the con­gregation may better understand it. llowever, increasing the ranks of our religious may depend upon relaxing the rule of celibacy. Thwarting AIDS, hunger and overpopulation in undered­ucated nations may demand the use of contraception. 
Tho Catholic Church's survival in Asia may rely on the retirement of a pope. What some view as words of a heretic may just be bold, successful answers in a difficult, fast-paced global society. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is serving in President Clinton's adminis­tration as a Congressional and public affairs director and is currently assist­ing Vice President Gore's Empowerment Commission. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 

SCOTT ADAMS 
I'LL COME BACK IN TEN MINUTES TO 
DO THAT AGAIN. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The worst prison is a closed heart." 
Pope John Paul II 


-·-----:.------------------..-IC!'"""'--------------..----~-~-----~-----~ 
I -.... 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Thursday, January 27, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS ·TO THE EDITOR 

MLKamodern prophet 
On Sunday, Jan. 16, the eve of the Martin Luther King Jr. hol­iday, we rnad the story of young Samuel being called by the Lord to deliver a mossage to tho oldN Eli. At that timo, Sartmd was not familiar wilh the Lord ber.ause the Lord had not rnvP.aled anything to Samuel yet. He was young. Then one day the Lord called him. "Samuel, Samuel." Samuel ran to Eli and said, "llere I am. You called me." Eli said. "I didn't call you. Go back to sleep." The Lord r.alled a second time. "Samuel, Samuel." Samuel ran to Eli again and said, "Here I am. You called me." Eli realized what was happening and said, "The Lord is trying to talk to you. Go back to sleep, and the next time you hear the Lord's voice say, 'Speak Lord, I am listening.' Finally, on the third try, Samuel heard the Lord's call and obeved. He went to Eli and told him everything he heard from the iord. "At that moment. he caught a glimpse of himself. He grew up, and the Lord was with him, not permitting any word of his to br ,..,·ithoul effect. He became known as a prophet of the Lord." 
WhilP the young Martin Luther King Jr. completed his gradu­ate school requirements, the voices of Rauschenbusch, Niebuhr and Tillich inundated his thoughts. Should he follow their example and become a working minister first or should he take the advice of many and begin teaching in the academy? While Martin completed his dissertation, there were several churches in the South looking for a pastor. Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in Montgomery, Ala., decided to "audition" the young graduate student to see if he could preach. On Jan. 10, 1954, the 25­year-old King ascended the pulpit of Dexter and gazed out over a packed sanctuary of inquiring faces. He thought to himself, Later. he said he thought "Keep Martin Luther King in the back­ground and God in the foreground and everything will be all right. Remember, you're a channel of the gospel, not the source." He preached on "The Three Dimensions of a Complete Life," Revelation 21:16. The sermon was a success. Martin, like Eli standing before God, "caught a glimpse of himself. He grew up, and the Lord was with him, not permitting any word of his to be without effect. He became known as a prophet of the Lord." 
Since September, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Committee has met each Thursday at 8 a.m. in Greenflelds Restaurant. As administrators. getting up early is no great sac-• rilic(1. For students. it's quite the opposite. Walking to the south end of campus at 8 in the morning for anything other than class is unheard of in the Free World. Yet, every Thursday morning for three months, it happened. As the planning began. the force and impetus behind the entire celebration derived from the ideas and vision of students. Your peers are young adults who respond to the call to participate in what we believe each year to be a worthy endeavor. To each meeting they bring their ideas,'energy, passion, insight and commitment, and they put together three days of thought-provoking events. Even though their knowledge of Dr. King has been formed by oral tradition, history assignments and annual news clips, somehow the spirit ol' the man ignites something within them. Like Samuel and \.1:artin, their youth, vigor and faith in Go<l are the very things which keep us hopeful. As administrators, we relish this ambi­tion and delight in tllli witrwss of God's presenc(' in them. 
Tonight at 7 p.m. in Keenan-Stanford Chapel, we will con­clude our celebration with the prayPr sPrvice '"Walk in. the Light of Christ." Your peers invite you to gather and listen for God's call. Join them and respond by saying. "Speak Lord. I am listen­ing." Like them, examine and act on the depth anrl breath of your word. ,\s a University community, we will test the tenacity of our convictions and listf)n to the storv which defines the truth of' our prl'seni reality. Collectively. vrn {vill <lispel the <larkrrnss which challengns us and walk in tho light which will forever 
unit!' us. 
'.vlay llw days to c:omc provide moments of re11ectiou and introsp1.11'.tion. as we sharp this light. Then, onP day. we may proclaim, ";\t tbal moment. we caught a glimpse of ourscl\'es. W11 grnw up, and the Lord was with us, not permitting any word of' ours to be without effect. We beeamc known as_ prophets of Lhe Lord.'' 
Chandra Johnson and 
Priscilla Wong 
Campus Ministry 
lmuary 26, 2000 
Do you really belong here? 
I came to the University of Notre Dame to con­tinue to grow in my faith. I'm here to learn and pray, to be a better person for having been here. lsn't that everyone's ultimate goal? Relieving this, l was confused by the words of one of my peers. A freshman, Jeff Eyreman, wrote Tuesday that marriage is not necl'ssary for true love. Knowing from definite personal experience, I agrne that lovA can develop before marriage, but it completes itself in matrimony. Marriage is a relationship including not only the two people, hut also (iod. To truly give yourself to someone, there must be a commitment to the other person and to God. There must be marriage. Jeff, this is not a pArsonal attack, and I'm nut pretending to be perfect. However, how can a teenager who has not yet even chosen a major make such a decision? God intended us each for one person, and I believe that our bodies belong to the per­son we're going to marry someday. Our bodies are not ours to give or take. We are in God's hands. 
This is Notre Dame. We are special and alone. We are many things and have many identities. But we bear the name of Our Mother, the Virgin .Mary. A Catholic university and a Christian envi­ronment. To c.omc here you must acknowledge that you will be surrounded by it. If you can't accept the morals, ideals and teachings of the Catholic Church and the views of this place where you have chosen to be educated, then do you really belong here? 
Elizabeth Bauer 
freshman, McGlinn Hall 
January 27, 2000 

Sex means commitment, not just affection 
Tuesday, Jeff Eyerman wrote a letter endors­"love" can erase that sin; only the sacrament of ing the view that marriage is an out-dated and Penance can do that. But sex in marriage isn't unnecessary sacrament. According to him, mar­just for the procreation of children; it's also for riage is not necessary to legitimize sex as long as strengthening the bond of love between the man two people are "in love." For the moment, let's and woman commited to the marriage. set aside the question of what constitutes being Sex, as Mr. Eyerman doesn't seem to under­"in love," because frankly, that whole line stand, makes each partner extremely vulnerable. sounds like a grade B movie come-on. It's supposed to; that is the way God intend­
Instead, let's look at the other side of ed it, so that the husband and wife may this argument, from the doctrine of 
truly become one. The vulnerability 
the Catholic Church. Sex is sacred. Maybe many of you reading this have never heard that particular phrase used before and maybe even find it trite. That's because you haven't thought it through. Sex is the act by which ordinary human beings become co­creators of new life with God. As a result of the impor­tance of this act, 
God has created a safe, nurturing environment for sex: within mar­riage. Sex unites two people in the act of creating new life, one new soul and body , from two individ­ual people. Remember that reading? Genesis 2:24, "Therefore a man leaves his father and mother and clings to his wife, and the two become one flesh." Also, Mark 10:6-8, "But from the beginning of creation, 'God made thPmmale and female.' For this reason, a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh.'' Black-and­whHe, clear as crystal. Sex is 
reserved for the holy union of mar­

riage with the blessing of God. God intend­ed sex to be used for the procreation of children, the formation of a family and the strengthening of the relationship betweell husband and wife. 
This relationship is important enough that it is used to mirror the relationship of Christ to His church: Christ is lhe bridegroom, the Church is His bride. Starting a family is not !'.omething to be taken lightly; therefore, neither is sex. If one does choose to have sex outside of marriage, there are serious consequences. The first is that the two individuals have sinned against God and against His laws for man. The second conse­quence is that the two individuals have cheap­ened something very sacred. And no amount of LJ thatsex creates is filled by know­ing that your spouse is dedicat­ed to vou for life. Just like the vows said, "For richer or I~\ poorer, in sickness and in ~ health" and all the rest of it. Without the commit­ment of marriage, sexr:::==:=====--iJ?\'\C-
\ will leave you totally 
~~ exposed and emotion­[::-:::rr::_j:::~-~.:::>_-_-_--.,,..--..Jl!:"~•!!_.!ot-~oL\ ally deserted, no mat­
ter how much "love" 
you have! Within marriage, 
however, it raises you, your partner and your love to unbelieveable heights and actual­
ly moves you clos­er to the heart of God. Mature Christians realize 
that true love requires commit­ment. Otherwise it's just a child-like 
infatuation, one that will someday fade. Most people don't want a one night, one 
month or even a one year intense relation­ship with the fear that 

someday the one they love will break up with them, leaving them alone again! Commitments are hard; that's why many people like to pretend that they aren't nocessary for sex. But they still are. God designed our species that way. The solid commitment of mar­
riage is also worth it. People have been making just such commitments and raising close, loving families, all the while being deeply in love. And that kind of love can be learned and prac­ticed oven when vou don't feel like it, even when it isn't convenien't. 
Marriage brings with it the grace and TRUE love to withstand anythii;ig, forever. Love, true God-intended love between a man and a woman. IS precious. It's also sacred. And the two souls become one. · 
Katherine Hoppe 
freshman, Lyons Hall 
January 25, 2000 


MOVIE REVIEW 

'Girl, Interrupted' delivers it all 
I3y JILLIAN DcPAUt Seen~ Movie Criri.: 
When Susanna Kaysen spent a year in a mental institution during tho 1960s for attempting suicide, she was diagnosed with a borderline personality. Even after rcad­ing "Girl, Interrupted," the memoir Susanna wrote during 
ly into ti.Im. Therefore, the film injects the necessary elements of plot and direction into the bare-bones story, while maintain­ing the essence of the book. This essence is the desperation. confusion, and eventual strength of the main character. conveyed in an honest and compassionate voice. 
In the tradition of the rather specific mental institution genre of !i.lmmaking, including "One Flew 
her time in the infamous Over the Cuckoo's McLean Hospital (it's the "Girl, Nest," "Girl. same hospital in which Interrupted" has a Sylvia Plath spent a few Interrupted" terrific cast ensi>mble. of her teenage years), The other patients, and seeing its movie rep­
nurses, doctors and resentation, it is stiH even orderlies collec­unclear what is actually tively give the. film a. wrong with someone out of five shamrocks sense of place. And who suffi:~rs from a bor­consequently, the hos­derline personality. What pital itself becomes a 
borderline is she cross-Director: James Mangold touchingly funny char­
ing exactly? ls it mad-acter at times and a ness and sanily, or is it Starring: Winona Ryder, frightening one at oth­
merely adolescence and Angelina Jolie, Whoopi Goldberg, ers. Whoopi Goldberg adulthood? This is the is as solid as ever question at the heart of Clea Duvall and Vanessa Redgrave 
playing Valerie, the 

"Girl. Interrupted." Is the woman in the center of this story insane, a danger to herself and society, or is she simply confused and mis­understood by the very society in which she is trapped? 
Making "Girl, Interrupted" was a labor of love for its star and executive producer, Winona Ryder, who said she read the bril­liantly poignant and concise memoir by Susanna Kaysen and was inspired not only to see it adapted into a film, but to see it done right. The project was several years in the making, since Ryder shopped it around to several different screenwriters and directors before finally settling on James Mangold. an unlikely choice, who also wrote and directed the 1997 police drama "Cop Land," and "Heavy" in 1995. The film version of "Girl, Interrupted" suc­ceeds because it does not adhere to the unspoken and often incorrect rule that a good adaptation is a strict adaptation. The book is simply a collection of the author's memories and thoughts of that time in her life, which, despite being extremely provocative, does not translate well direct-tough but caring head 
nurse of their ward; an antithesis of Nurse Hatched, Valerie usually understands the girls better than their doctors. Vanessa Redgrave is radiant but underused as the only one of Susanna's doctors who has a clue, chal­lenging her to re-engage with society on her own terms instead of withdrawing from it completely. 
But the real prize of the film is a group of patients who form a camaraderie that is in some way demented, but mostly gen­uine. There is Georgina, Susanna's room­mate and a pathological liar, played by Clea Duvall. There is Polly (Elizabeth Moss), a sweet, young woman who hap­pened to burn off half of her face when she was a girl and is affectionately called "Torch" by her ward mates. You cannot forget Daisy, played by Brittany Murphy who you may recognize from "Clueless," the aloof member of the ward who eats whole chickens which are supplied by her father and stores the carcasses under her bed. 
Finally. Angelina Jolie is in a class by herself as Lisa, the heartless, sociopath ringleader of the group. Jolie gives one of those rare electrifying performances that absolutely ignites the screen. She has already won a Golden Globe for her perfor­mance, which is without a doubt }'VOrthy of an Academy Award. The success of the film hinges on the validity of her portrayal of Lisa, the alternative to reassimilation into society for Susanna. Lisa tells the truth when society lies. Susanna is both drawn to her truth but anchored in the reality external to the hospital walls, even if it is false. Jolie captures simultaneously the seductive and the destructive qualities of her character. The chemistry between Jolie and Ryder is a marvel to watch and "Girl, Interrupted" is definitely worth your extra holiday cash, if you still have any. It covers all the bases; it's a smart, powerful film with a clever sense of humor, and it even has a good soundtrack. 

VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
A romantic Woody Allen musical? 
By JEFFREY Q. IRISH Scene Movie Critic 
Does everyone say "I love you?" Woody Allen thinks so. He wrote, directed and starred in this 1930s style musi­cal about an extended family and its bouts with the most wonderful feeling in lhe world. 
"Everyone says" opens with Ed Norton ("Fight Club") singing ..Just you, Just me" to Drew
"Everyone says I 
Barrymore ("Ever After") next to a
love you" 

fountain in Central Park. [t brings an immediate grin to
Director: Woodv Allen 
your face as you
Starring: Alan Alda, Woody remember what it's 
Allen, Goldie Hawn, Drew Barrymore, like to be young and in love as these
Edward Norton, Natalie Portman, 
two most certainly 
Julia Roberts are. The grin rarely leaves your face as you get 
looks at all the family member's different feelings and confusions of love. 
The plot centers around the extended family and each individual's search for love. The deepest love is the friendship between Joe {Woody Allen) and Stem {Goldie Hawn). They were previously married and have one daughter, DJ, who is the narrator of the film. Steffi has remarried and had two children with a successful busi­nessman named Bob (Alan Alda), who already had two children of his own. Bob's children from the previous marriage arc Skylar (Barrymore) and Scott (Luke Haas). Lane (Gabby Hoffman) and Laura (~atalie Portman) are the two middle-school-aged daughters of Bob and Steffi. 
Also involved in the love game with a member of the family are Julia Hoberts ("Notting Hill") and Tim Hoth. All ol' the actors use their own singing voices (except Drew Barrymore) whether or not they had any training. Goldie Hawn has a wondert'ul voice, Julia Roberts does not, but it doesn't matter because they are both singing their feelings and that is why "Everyone says" is so amorable. 
"Everyone says" is a characteristic Woody Allen film: intelligent, funny, romantic·. leftist and set in New York. As an artist, Allen has tried to do films in different gen­res to challenge his talent: it was only fitting that he attempt a musical. Few modern films employ the classic musical format, only "Utile Shop of Horrors" and "Evita" come to mind. "Everyone says" surpasses them in b(Jth comedy and romance. All romantic comedies play on the belief that there is that "special someone for you.'' We watch the boy meet the girl; and then they split up for 60 minutes, and then the resolution is solved usually by the two falling in love. There is something about Allen's bumbling character that makes you con­nect with him. We feel his frustrations -because every­one says "I love you." 


-------r ____________.._____,________ -------~----------------:=------------------­
....
M 
E 
Thursday, January 27, 2000 page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Play It to the Bone' lacks eye of the tiger 
By JOEY LENISKI 
Sc:ene Movie Criric 
Sports movies rarely concern themsplves exclusively with the sport shown on the f'ronl of the promotional poster. lnvariably the story goes beyond the confines of the gridiron, the squared circle. the diamond or tht> big gr<)<'n. inlo thr conflicts and struggles ·or thn lrnro's pnrsonal life. See "Haging Bull." "North Dall.as Forty," "Hocky" or "Slap-shot" for dassic Pxam­ples whr,rc Lhis tactic 
the three pack their bags and head out into the desert. 
\Nhy two fighters givm1 a drPam-shot at Lhe I.it.le would drive io Las Vegas instead of flying is beyond me, and never explained at all in the movie. Everyone knows that all road trips will inevitably rPsult in unforeseen disaster and conflict between the travelers. Not surprisingly, this is exactly what happens with our thrC'e crusaders as th<'y travel to fortune's Mecca via automobile. Everything from Jesus sightings to break-ups to homosexu­
ality threaten to end 

succeeds. Vince and Cesar's Formulas. howr.vPr, "Play It to the friendship and their are fickle things. The trip eastward. But modern manifestation of Bone" thanks mostly to the this convr.ntion, while fierv attitude of Grare, adding depth to typically 
th/se two warriors thin plotlinPs. is used swallow their pridP primarily to sell sports and remember how to 
movie lickNs lo women out offive shamrock5 behave like adults just who could can~ less how in time to step into the rnanv rounds Hockv Director: Ron Shelton ring and pummel each 
Balbf;a lasted in his lir;t Starring: Antonio Banderas, other with their fisl'>. l'ight against Apollo Who wins the fight? 
Cre(•d. Woody Harrelson, Lolita Davidovich, Do they get their title­

of the film involving the physical and psy­chological aspects of boxing are either too flippant or extreme. The first half of the movie plays out like a typical buddy-drama with a twist of romance. But the fight sequence near the end is shot like a per­verse nightmare, complete with unrealistic blood-bath and topless-women hallucina­tions, none of which has motivation or adds any important information to the story. 
The thematic and formal schizophrenia in "Play It to the Bone" is ultimately con­fusing and unattractive. It will take its place with the other sports movie failures collecting dust on a video store shelf, while the more convincing titles will remain clas­sics. Spend the money on renting "Tin Cup," or, better yet, go play a round of mini-golf. Will you choose the right color ball? Can you avoid the treacherous wind­mill? We shall find out ... dum dum dum. 
By trying to l'orm a Lucy Liu wPll roundPd storv. film­makers will ofte1{ makP­t\-vo Pntirely di!lerent movies whir.h end up suturrd togrLhrr somewherr near the last quarter of tlw film. SP.e "Gladiator," "Blue Chips" or '"Horky V" for prinw examples when\ this tactic !'ails. And for further ref­1ininc:c on this disturbing trend. please sec "l'lav It to thP Born' ... 
·n;is 1ilm dors not stray far from the sports movir formula: Two friends have onr. day to drive from Los Angeles to Las Vegas to light each other for a chance at tlrn championship rnatr.h. but can they sur­vive each other along the way? Chances are yes, othP-rwise the moviP would end half-way through. But let us suppress logic for now and give this movie the benefit of the doubt. 
Vince (Woody Harrelson) and Cesar (Antonio Banderas) are over-the-hill prize­fighters who are offered the deal of a life­time: a fight with one another as the undrrcard malch-up for yr.t another Mike Tyson comeback bout. At stake: a shot at the Litle. something that has eluded both fighters throughout their careers. Fate smiling upon our heroes, they pack their bags, borrow Cesar's girlfriend Grace's (Lolita Davidovkh) car, and head into the clcsnrt -almost. Grace insisL'> on driving her soupPd-up convertible GTO herself. so shot? Will you care at 
this point in the 
movie? Yes. 

The fact that the audience actually cares about who wins the match this late in the story proves the film does have some redeeming quality. Unfortunately, the majority of "Play It to the Bone" is dis­jointed and rather disappointing. Writer/dirnctor Ron Shelton ("Bull Durham." "White Men Can't Jump." "Tin Cup") is no stranger to the sports movie genre -in fact he basically reinvented it in the late 1980s. But the staple of the typ­ical Shelton film was a main character with one great character flaw that con­stantly caused him to screw up both on and off the playing field. By the end of the movie, the hero never actually changes but achieves a moral victory by sticking to his guns. The audience loves this charac­ter, who it both pities and admires. 
The two heroes in "Play it to the Bone" are convincingly flawed and pathetic, but neither Vince nor Cesar becomes admirable to the audience. Their flaw seems to be that both are just plain mean and immature with one another. In fact, the only character that invokes a real sym­pathy from the audience is Grace, the girl­friend/manager played with refreshing confidence by Davidovich. 
Besides character problems, the portions 
Box OFFICE 

Ice Cube stars as Craig in this week· end's No. 1 movie, "Next Friday," a more than expected success as sequel to the 1995 box office hit "Friday." Craig's trip in the suburbs proves to be a big hit with movie fans across the country, who find the 'burbs even funnier than the 'hood. 
PhotQ courtesy of New Line Cinema 


Weekend Sales 
$ 8.0 million $ 7.6 million $ 6. 5 milllon $ 6.4 million $ 5.4 million $ 4.5 million $ 4.3 million $ 3.7 million 
$ 3.4 million $ 3.2 million 
-
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 
7. 8. 
9. 
10. 
Movie Title 

Next Friday Down to You The Hurricane Stuart Little The Green Mile Galaxy Quest Girl, Interrupted The Talented Mr. Ripley Play It to the Bone Angela's Ashes 
Total Sales 

$ 31 .8 million $ 7.6 million ... $ 22.9 million $ 117. 1 million $ 109.6 million $ 54.3 million $ 16.2 million 
$ 68.2 million $ 3.5 million $ 3.6 million 


Source: Associated Press 



page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 27, 2000 
NFL 
Dorsetts becollle first father-son duo to start Super Bowl 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at rhe Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al dassilicd.s must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per charauer per day, induding all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all dassificds for content without issuing refumls .  
...  
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  2-6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272­ SPRING BREAK 2000  
WANTED  The Early Childhood Development Center, located at Saint Mary's  6306  FOR SALE  PANAMA CITY BEACH, FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND­ PERSONAL  
College and the University of Notre  3 bedroom duplex  PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT  
Dame, 1s looking for volunteers who  appliances, W/D  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  THE "FUN PLACE"!  
Work for an exciting College  enIoy young children. If you would  1 mile from campus  with orthopedic mattress and  TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN·  www.thecommenJator.com  
tocused company at your school!  be interested in spending 2 hours a  273-8332  deluxe frame. New, never used, still  /;1ENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORA T- 
Looking for motivated individuals  week reading children's books,  in plastic. $235  219-862-2082  ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE  guess what, Gina? This is a classi­ 
..  with strong leadership, entrepre­neurial and business skills.  building with blocks, and singing songs with children, please call  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE  96 Ford Ranger XL. 54k mi., CD  HARD BODY CONTESTS 3 POOLS LAZV RIVER WATER  lied' Just for youi  
Tech skills not required.  Amy Moskalick at 284-4693  http://mmmrentals.t1omepage.com/  player, man. trans. $7000, obo. Call  SLIDE  Hey erin,  
Great expenence, pay and options!  (ECDC·SMC) or Thayer Kramer at  email:mmmrentals@aol.com  Tony, 273-5319.  HUGE BEACHFRONT HOT TUB  how's 1t going? enIoy your snow  
631·3344 (ECDC-ND). Please join  232-2595  MINI GOLF  day? I hope so....  
Contact info@uconnections.com.  our lun filled days.  USED COMPUTER, COMPAQ  GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10  
6 BEORM. '00-'01  167 MgHz Pentium Processor  PEOPLE  oh my goodness  
SITTER WANTED  $1200/mo. 273-0482  33 Hz Modem 64 MB  1 800-488·8828  
Tues and Thurs, 12:30 -6:15  FOR RENT  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  Comes with new 4.0 AOL Diamond & Norton Anti-Virus. HP Oeskjet  WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  guess what? this is a classified just for you,  
On Campus, a! Univ. Vig. Apts  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF NO  540 & Sldespeakers included  New Phone Card  
6 BDRM HOME.FURN.AVAIL  EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD  18 Shared CD-ROM  886 mins. $20  almost finished  
Call Chris or Shannon: 634-4751  NOW.$150. PER. 272-6306  CLOSE 2773097  Please call 277-8567  258-4805 or 243·9361  donel  

Associated Press 
ATLANTA Ile looks a lot like his dad, built like him, too. 
The son is 5-11, 200 pounds. The father was 5-11, 190 when he played in his first Super Howl with the Dallas Cowboys. 
Anthony Dorsett will play in his first Super Bowl on Sunday, trying to win the same kind of championship ring Tony Dorsett has worn since 1978. 
But unlike his Hall of Fame father. the younger Dorsett isn't one of the biggest names on the field. He's one of the Tennessee Titans' special teamers, and he'll start against the St. Louis Rams only because free safety Marcus Robertson broke his leg during last week's AFC champi­onship 
game. 
But by getting the starting j o b , Anthony has put the Dorsetts in the NFL 

r e c O r d Tony Dorsett b o o k : They're the first father and son to do so in a Super Bowl. "I think someone needs to give us a commercial or some­
thing," said the 26-year-old defensive back, who deliberate­ly uses Anthony -without the Junior -to establish his own identity. 
His proud father said he was "delighted as can be." 
"I don't think anyone in America could be happier than I am," said Tony Dorsett, who will be in the Georgia Dome come gamctimc, cheering for his son. 
So, has Dad hPen calling with advice? 
"llc's trying to make sure I keep focused and keep my head in the game with all this media frenzy and people culling for tickets,'' he said. 'Tm doing what he says to keep my head on a level plane and just roll with the punches." 

Robertson's been talking to him. too. 
"He knows it's going to be dif­ficult, but his attitude is that he's going to go out there and have fun," Robertson said. "I keep talking to him about play­ing what he sees." 
Dorsett's football genes were noticeable from the outset. 
The first time he touched the ball in a Pop Warner game in Pittsburgh, he returned a kick­off 75 yards for a touchdown. 
"Immediately when I started playing ball, everyone was com­menting on how we were doing things the same," the son said. "And everyone always rem.~rked on how big our eyes get. 
He moved to Dallas as a teen­ager to spend more time with his father during the late 1980s. Being in the limelight as Tony's son didn't bother him. but he tried to limit compar­isons to his dad by switching from running back to wide receiver and cornerback in high school. 
Recruiters, however, didn't beat down his door. so he chose Pittsburgh for sentimental rea­sons -Tony helped the Panthers win the 1976 national championship. 

-
THE 
is accepting applications for: 
2000-2001 
Editor in Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor in chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Michelle Krupa by 5 p.m., Monday, Jan. 31. For additional information about the position or application process, contact Michelle Krupa at 631-4542, or stop by the office downstairs in South Dining Hall. 

r-----~--~~--~---..---------------------------------__,_____ _ 
Thursday, Janu3.ry 27, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

textbooks, get them in one to three business days, and all of this from a Web site that's completely reliable 
-
and secure. So there you have it, you decide. 
SAVE UP TO 40%. ON TEXTBOOKS. 
Savings off distributor's suggested price. Books delivered in no more than lhree business days. Some restrictions apply. See site for details. 


1-­
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 27, 2000 
PROFESSIONAL TENNIS 
First 'Grand Slam' winner dies of cardiac arrest 
titles -Wimbledon and the the major championships. · pro champion for many years beat me. .Just think of how
Associated Press 
championships of Australia, "I was the amateur champi­after that," Budge once said. many more Wimb'lcdons 
Don Budge. who swept all four major tennis tournamP-nts in 1938 to become the sport's first "Grand Slam" winner. died Wednesday of cardiac arrest. He was 84. 
He died at Mercy Hospital in Scranton, Pa., hospital spokes­woman 1\fary Leone said. 
Budge was injured in a car accident in northeastern Pennsylvania on Dec. 14 when he lost control and drove off the road. He was hospitalized in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., until Jan. 8, when ho was trans­ferred to a nursing facility near his home in Diugmans Ferry. Budge was taken to Mercy Hospital ori Jan. 17. 
Budge had a complete game built around a whiplash back­hand. which still is considered the best ever. He backed up a strong serve with power and accuracy off lhe ground and volleyed effectively. 
He was inducted into the Tennis Hall of Fame in 1964, and selected one of Tennis Magazine's 20 greatest play­ers of the 20th century. 
"I consider him the finest player 365 days a year who ever lived," tennis great Bill Tilden once said. 
Born June 13, 1915, in Oakland, Calif.. John Donald Budge was a superb athlete who played all popular team sports, including baseball and basketball. When he was 13, his brother Lloyd, who played on the tennis team at the L'niversity of California, per­suaded Don to take tennis seriously. 
Nine years later, Budge beat Germany's Baron Gottfried Von Cramm in what is consid­ered to be one of the best Davis Cup matches ever. 
That same year. 1937. Budge won both Wimbledon and the U.S. Championships. In 1938, he became the first player to sweep all four major 
the department of film, television, and theatre 
presents 
+}e ~ e/et\t. o(+}e. C!£1\hy 1f 
notre 
-

france and the United States. 
The feat, dubbed a "'Grand Slam'' by tennis writer Allison Danzig, has been equaled by only four other players since. 
"In the recent light of Andre Agassi achieving a career grand slam, Dad's accomplish­ment becomes all the more stellar," said ))avid Budge. one of his sons, a music and film publicist in Los Angeles. 
It was the only time in his career that Budge played the French or Australian champi­onships. 
After reaching the Wimbledon semifinals in 1936, Budge took five months off the following winter to change his game, taking the ball earlier and improving his forehand. 
In 1937, he won Wimbledon easily, then on July 20, 1937, met Von Cramm on the grass courts of the All-England Club. 
While in the dressing room before beginning the match. Von Cramm received a tele­phone call. As Budge listened, Von Cramm, an anti-Nazi, lis­tened, then ended the call by saying politely, "Ja, mein Fuhrer." It was Adolf Hitler. 
By the time the two took the court, the best-of-5 competi­tion was tied a two victories apiece. Budge triumphed 6-8, 5-7, 6-4, 6-2, 8-6, giving the United States the victory. 
"Don, this was absolutely the finest match I have ever played in my life," Von Cramm told him. 'Tm very happy that I could have played it against you, whom I like so much." 
Budge received the James E. Sullivan Trophy as the nation's outstanding amateur athlete in 1937 and was The Associated Press athlete of the year in 1938. 
After his 1938 Grand Slam, Budge turned pro and domi­nated in an era when profes­sionals were not allowed to play tournaments, including 
on for two years and then the "There was no one who could could have won." 

Saint Mary's College 1), 
2000-2001 .Student Body President & Vice President Elections Time Line 
MEET THE CANDIDATES 
Thursday. January 27, 2000 6pm in Haggar Parlor 
ELECTIONS 

Monday,Janumy,31,2000 7-9am, 12-2pm, 5-7pm (in the Dining Hall for on campus students) 11am-3pm (in the OffCampus Lounge for offcampus students) 
RUN-OFF ELECTIONS (ifnecessary) Wednesday, February 2, 2000 7-9am, 12-2pm, 5-7pm (in the Dining Hall for on campus students) 11am-3pm (in the OffCampus Lounge for offcampus students) 
*sponsored by B.O.G. 
"Encuentro Chicago" Retreat 
"An overnight immersion in Chicago's Latino neighborhood ofPilsen" 
February 19-20, 2000 
Experience: The Resurrection Project The Mexican Fine Arts Museum Cristo Rey High School St. Pius V Parish 
Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns or Campus Ministry, I 03 l{esburgh Library. Applications can be handed in at the Center for Social Concerns. Application deadline is February 2. 

-
CENlElt fOR 

SOCIAL (CMPUS 
CONCERNS MINISTRY 
--­-------------------------------------------- 
Thursday, January 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS  page 19  

NHL 
Belfour's 36 saves leads Dallas to 3-1 victory over L.A. 

Mark Parrish put Florida back the second period. in front with a breakaway goal Witt opened the scoring with at 8:58. 2:30 left in the first period, 
Jason Arnott tied it with and Hnat Domenichelli tied it 
9: 13 left, deflecting Sheldon at 5:50 of the second. Souray's shot from the point Witt ended a streak of 55 past Vernon. games without a goal by flut­
The Panthers dropped to 17-tering a slap shot from the left 5-2 at home, and are 6-2-1 in point for his ninth career tally. their last nine games His last goal was March 13, 
1999, against the Flames. Domenichelli skated

Blues 4, Senators 1 
unchecked through the slot toStephane Richer scored his convert a centering pass from
400th career goal and Scott 
Benoit Gratton. Domenichelli'sYoung added two goals as the 
one-timer beat Kolzig, who
St. Louis Blues beat the has started every game during
Ottawa Senators. 
the streak and has a career­Richer beat goalie Patrick high eight-game unbeaten
Lalime on a power play at 
run.
8:42 of the first period. Richer 
Washington, 2-7-5 against

has eight goals this season for 
Western Conference teams,
Tampa Bay and St. Louis. 
has won the first two games of
Young scored the winner at 
a four-game homestand.
8:57 of the second. 
Calgary had a two-game win­
Chris Pronger also scored ning streak broken. The
and Pierre Turgeon had three rlames have lost four of five
assists for St. Louis, 11-0-2 
on the road.
against Canadian teams this season. 
Roman Turek made 29 saves Red Wings 4, Maple Leafs 2 for the victory, allowing only Sergei Fedorov scored his Patrick Traverse's third-peri­first goal since Dec. 20 and od power-play goal. Chris Osgood made 30 saves 
The Senators are 1-3-2 in as the Detroit Red Wings beat their last six games. the Toronto Maple Leafs. 
Young one-timed Turgeon's Pat Verbeck, Nicklas pass from behind the net past Lidstrom and Kirk Maltby also Lalime at 8:57 of the second scored for the Red Wings, period, and made it 3-0 with who've won two straight after 
3:08 left in the period with a an 0-3-2 skid. The victory also shot from the top of the right snapped a four-game winless faceoff circle. streak (0-3-1) against Toronto 
Pronger closed the scoring and gave Detroit a 269-268-92 with a power-play goal mid­edge in the series. way through the third period. The Red Wings lead the 
Western Conference with 65 points. while Toronto is tied
Capitals 2, Flames 1 
for second in the Eastern
Ken Klee scored the winning Conference with 63.
goal as Washington beat 
Maltby's goal. on a break­

Calgary, extending the 
away with 4:15 remaining in
Capitals' unbeaten streak to a the third period, was his firstseason-best nine games. 
of the season. He's missedBrendan Witt also scored 
most of the season after her­and Olaf Kolzig made 26 saves nia surgery in October. 
for Washington, 8-0-1 during 
Fedorov, who hadn't scored

the streak and 10-1-3 since in his last 11 games, gavedropping three consecutive 
Detroit a 3-1 lead in the sec­road games in December. The 
ond period. Fedorov missedninii-game streak is 
Detroit's last three games
Washington's longest since 
because of a neck injury.
late in the 1986-87 season. 
Steve Thomas and MatsOn the decisive goal. Ulf 

Sundin scored for Toronto. 
Dahlen directed the puck to 
Osgood who played his bestRichard Zednik off a faceoff. 

game in 10 since returningZednik backpedaled before 
Jan. 2 from missing 15 gamessliding a pass to Klee near the 
with a broken hand. He madeblue line, where he fired a ris­
close-range saves on Bryan
ing slap shot that beat Fred 
Berard and Sundin.
Brathwaite with 6:29 left in 
ljfl££E'l 
•Introduction 
to all levels 

•
Students are instructed according to their level Classes Meet;The fun way te;~,tay healthy an~ fit 


Beginner Sundays 1:OOpm-2:3,Qpm Wednesda,1'_::of3Dpm-7:4.?f31TI 
y: .] I I "! 
·~--.,,,,: l , , .1 
Advanced ~1t§U.ntja.y~,.,:~~:Z;,~0pm~~;00pm Wedriesdaysf .7;45pm--9:00pm 
--~~--' !~ .·'J/4_)l 
Pointe Sundays·--..i,.,-,_,. ,m-4:4Spm Wednesdays-kt; ·. ..· ... rrr9~30pm All classes meet at the Rolf~i§fiq~i~ecreation Center 
lnforma:tfqh-Miijting
Sunday,'-?Ji·nu'ary 30 
... 

Register in Advan.~e at RecSPorts Registration Fee is $39.0()fjor Ballet & $1 Ofor Pointe Sign-Ups Begin Monday{Janua1y3l--:-8:00am 
1:OOpm -Rolfs Spfrrts Recreation Center 
Space is:timited 
R~~ 
play early in the second peri­od. Zubov's slap shot from tho right point beat goalie Jamie Storr. 
Mike Modano had a goal and two assist. and Brett Hull added an empty-net goal with L4. I seconds left for the injury-plagued Stars. Dallas is missing several of its top play­ers. including defenseman Derian Hatcher, center Joo Nieuwendyk and left wing Jere Lehtinen. 
The Stars' penalty killers kept the Kings scoreless in six power-play chances as Dallas improved to 9-3 in its last 12 

Associated Press 
DALLAS 

Ed Helfour made 36 saves as the Dallas Stars ran their franchise-record unbeaten streak against the Los Angeles Kings to 22 games with a 3-1 victory Wednesday night 
Dallas. 4-0 against Los Angeles this season, is 16-0-6 against the Kings since April 6, 1995. The Minnesota North Stars had a 21-game streak (17-0-4) against the Kings from 1970-73. 
Sergei Zubov scored the ti~brcaking goal on a power 
games. The Stars took a 1-0 lead at 
11:10 of the first period on Modano's rebound goal. Modano's 19th goal orthe sea­son came one second after the Kings killed a power play. 
The Kings tied it at 18:24 of the opening period when Craig Johnson scored his sixth of the season on a wrist shot from the right circle. 
Devils 3, Panthers 2 
Patrik Elias scored with 1. 7 seconds left to give New Jersey a victory over Florida, extending his Devils-record point streak to 14 games. 
Martin Brodeur made 21 saves to extend his winning streak to 10 games and tie his franchise record of 14 straight' games without a loss. He's 12­0-2 in his last 14. In 1997, he went 8-0-6. 
The Devils, first in the NHL with 70 points, have won five straight, six in a row on the 
road and are 12-1-2 in their last 15 games. The Devils' only loss. 3-2 to Washington on Jan. 14, came in overtime and also netted them a point. 
Elias intercepted Robert Svehla's clearing pass to the right of goalie Mike Vernon. The Czech star skated in, faked, and slipped the puck past Vernon's glove side for a dramatic victory. 
Elias has 20 goals in his last 21 games, and 15 goals and eight assists during the streak. 
Only one penalty -a late second-period tripping call on New Jersey's Brad Bombardir -was called in the game. It was the first time Florida has not been called for a penalty. 
Florida opened the scoring on Victor Kozlov's first-period goal. Randy McKay tied it at 
5:21 of the third period, but 

find your most compatible match for 
You You 
WITHOUT WITH your Data Match your Data Match Printout. Printout! 

January 27th & 28th North and South Dining Halls SPONSORED BY FRESHMAN CLASS COUNCIL 
Valentine's Day! 

-----------------------------------~----~--­
-

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 27, 2000 
· -SUPER BOWL XXXIV 
Improbable matchup presents challenge to ABC 
their 14 games on Fox were anyone would have predicted out great." ABC producer Ken offset any lack of interest in 
Associated Pr~ss 

shown. on average, to about 20 this." Wolfe said. "San Francisco, the the rest of the country. percent of the country. The Cenainly the NFL schedule Jets and Denver falling apart "Because there aren't bigThe St. Louis Ilams and Cowboys got more than 2 1/2 makers didn't think that makes for a difficult time for markets involved, there'sTennessee Titans just started times that exposure. Tennessee and St. Louis would all of us. I don't think the bound tu be some fall off. How
creating excitement in their 
The Titans, who played twice go from a combined 12-20 last league was entirely happy. If mur.h is anyone's guflss," said 
own cities this season. They 
on ESPN, were beamed, on season to the Super Bowl this this comes to pass, it would be Ron Frederick, an advertising
sure haven't built a national 
average. to season. Or that a great thing for the us and the execulive at J. Walterfollowing yet. 
about 12 Atlanta and fans." Thompson.
That's the challenge facing 
percent of 'This game is perfect for Denver would That won't help ABC this The small-market effect
ABC this week, getting the 
the nation on the fans tired ofseeing go from the week. wasn't that dramatic in the
entire country interested about CBS -less Super Bowl to So instead, the four-hour league championship games.
two teams most people haven·t the Packers, 49ers and
than one­a combined 11-pregame show will mix in an Fox's coverage of St. Louis­seen play until the last couple 
quarter of Broncos every year. " 21. emotional feature on Walter Tampa Bay was 2 percent
of weeks. 

the coverage If they did, Payton with a national intro­higher than last year's late"This game is perfect for the area of the the Rams or duction to the two teams play­game between Denver and the
Al Michaels

fans tired of seeing the 
Dolphins. Titans would ing this week. Jets, while CBS' telecast of
Packers, 49ers and Broncos ABC announcer
T h e r c have made an "We can't take for granted Tennessee-Jacksonville was 6 every year," ABC announcer Al hasn't been a appearance un that everyone watching is percent lower than theMichaels said, trying to put a Super Bowl "Monday Night totally familiar with these two Atlanta-Minnesota game a yearpositive spin on this matchup. 
between two outsiders like this Football" down the stretch, teams," said John Filippelli, ago.
"This is probably the most 
since Cincinnati played San instead of San Francisco, the vice president of produc­Frederi~k predicts that the
improbable Super Bowl 
Francisco in 1982 -the only Atlanta, Denver and the Jets. tion for ABC Sports. "It's small markets, the lack ofmatchup of all time. Looking at other matchup of teams that That's why the NFL is consid­incumbent on us tu find the exposure, and even the efimi­it in the prcseason. this would didn't have winning records ning a proposal for next year right balance between letting na tion of the bye week allhave been an almost inconceiv­the previous year. to hold off deciding which late­people know the players and could contribute to Al3C fallingable pairing." 
The silver lining for ABC is season games will be shown on doing what's emotional." short of its goal of a 42 rating. 
While the networks were 
that the Bengals-49ers Super Monday nights and nationally ABC also isn't helped by the However, even if that hap­pumping up Miami, Green Bay. 
Bowl was the highest-rated on Sunday afternoons until a fact that St. Louis and pens, enough people will still
Denver and Dallas throughout ever. having been watched in few weeks before, instead of a Nashville are the 21st-and gather around their TV sets
the season. St. Louis and 
49.1 percent of American few months. 30th-largest markets, respec­Sunday night to make theTennessee played in the rela­households. "Clearly as our schedule tively. That means there aren't Super Bowl the highest-ratedtive obscurity of regional TV "This is a very challenging evolved th is year, it didn't turn enough fans in those cities to show of the year. 
coverage. 

matchup for us," ABC directorThe Rams didn't make a sin­
Craig Janoff said. "These are
gle prime-time appearance on either ABC and ESPN, and 
Happy 19th B,pthday Michael! 
' ·. 
hugs .,5. Kism 
Dad, Mom, Care11, Colin, Courlne11, & Maureen 



~ 

THE TASTY CHICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
one bite of the delicious Chicken Club, and you'll always crave the flavor of its all-white-meat chicken topped with crispy bacon, lresh lettuce and tomato and mayonnaise. And that's no problem, bocause now this ultra-satisfying sandwich is here to stay at BURGER KlNG~ So come on In and indulge your craving. 


The HUcldle -LaFortll19 Sl!Jdenl Center IT JUST TASTES BETTER~ 
www.burgerking.com 
PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 
C'l1997, American Heall Association 


Thursday, January 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

TEXTBOOKS ONLINE. SAVE UP TO 40%. 
FREE SHIPPING!* 
FOR $10 OFF** ENTER CODE #650913 AT PURCHASE CHECKOUT 

' F!w •hipping"" 11/mlted lime on onlffl av« $35. " $10 offer expires February 15, 2000. 0 2000 BIGWOIIDS, Inc. 

BOXING 
Tyson awaits Francis in England 
Associated Pres• 
MANCHESTER, England 

Mike Tyson hit town Wl:dncsday night, three days before he'll hit Julius Prancis. 
A crowd of about 700 people greeted the former heavy­wcigh t champion when he arriVf~d by bus at his Manchester h o t e I Tyson was hustled through a back door, but later waved to the crowd from a hotel window. 
"I think il's a good thing for him tn come to the area ber:ause it bonds people and it is bringing everyone together," said Asian Vasi, 27, who lives in the city's tough Moss Side district 
Francis, tht> British heavy­weight champion, is not expect­ed to last very long. But he is 1)xpr,cted to get hil very hard. 


The last time Tyson fought outside the United States. he lost the undisputed heavy­weight title. He was knocked out in the 10th round by James "Buster" Douglas in l 990 in one of the biggest upsets in boxing history. 
But Francis is 35 years old and does not possess the box­ing skill or punching power of Douglas. And while Tyson has slipped at 33, he's still a dan­g(~rous tighter. 
Certainly against Francis, who has a record of 21-7. Tvson carries a record of 46-3,wHh 1 no contest and 40 knockouts, into the bout at l\1EN Arena. 
Tyson worked out in London on Wednesday before being driven three hours north to Manchester. 
Tickets for the 10-round fight at the 20,000-seat arena went on sale in December and were gone within two days. 
If the purpose of this journey to England was an ego trip for Tvson, the mission has suc­c~eded. 
Despite the controversy over allowing Tyson into Britain because of his three-year prison term on a rape convic­tion and the protests of a women's organization, Tyson has received star treatment from the public and much of the media. 
It seems almost every utter­ance by Tyson is reported, often in headlines. 
Consider his statement. "I think I'm going to kill Julius Francis," in which he was merely trying to say that he was going to knock out Francis. But the British tabloids regard­ed the remark as if Tyson wore speaking with criminal intent. 
Since arriving 10 days ago, Tyson has mounted a public relations campaign to soften his image. He recounted how he had been humiliated recently, j,n California. 
"My wife and I were in Hollywood and we went to a wax museum," he said. "We went into the Chamber of Horrors and there was a wax dummy of mfl in a cage. It dev­astated my wife. They humiliat­ed and degraded me in front of my wife. All my life I have been humiliated." 

NFL ·­
Dallas proD1otes Cam.po to head coach 
Associated Press 
IRVING. Texas 

Dave Campo was promoted from Dallas Cowboys' defen­sive coordinator to head coach Wednesday, according to broadcast reports. 
A news conference was scheduled for 6:30 p.m. EST. While the Cowboys made no immediate announcement, the hiring was reported by ESPN. Fox and WBAP radio. 
Campo. 42, has been with the team since Jones bought it in 1989. He was among the group of assistant coaches Jimmy Johnson brought with him from the University of Miami. He's been defensive coordinator since 1995. 
Campo is a low-profile guy taking on one of the highest­profile jobs in pro sports. He's only the fifth coach the Cowboys have ever had ­and the first three all won Super Bowls. 
But Dallas hasn't been a contender for championships lately. The Cowboys have won only one playoff game since the last title in 1995 and they're 24-24 over the past three seasons with two first-round playoff losses. 
Campo has one thing in common with the previous four Cowboys coaches: No NFL head coaching experi­ence. 
Secondary coach Mike 

BOUTIQUE 
EXCHANGE 
Exdld/.UU-e eo.MM~ $ko.p °J)e~11, I.J11,aMdd, g Viniacje /-M Meng 1k/1M1,en UP TO 50 8/e OH SElECTED ITEMS 
M-F 10 am to 8 pm Saturday 10 am to 6 pm Sunday 12 pm to 4 pm 2324 Miracle Lane Town and Country Shopping Center 257-070 I 
Zimmer is ex pee ted· to replace Campo as defensive coordinator. Campo spent six seasons overseeing the sec­ondary before taking over as coordinator. 
.Jones' 15-day search for a new coach hardly extended outside team headquarters. The only other known candi­dates he interviewed were special teams coach Joe Avezzano and offensive line coach Hudson Houck. 
Campo and kicking coordi­nator Steve Hoffman are the only coaches remaining from Johnson's initial staff. 
Campo is the third member of the Class of '89 to become an NFL head coach. joining Norv Turner and Dave Wannstedt. Butch Davis, who was defensive coordinator after Wannstedt and before Campo, is the head coach at the University of Miami. 
That still leaves Dallas in need of an offensive coordi­nator. Chan Gailey held both jobs before being fired Jan. 11, two days after the Cowboys were blown out in the first round of the play­offs. 
Gailey. whose two-year tenure was the shortest in team history, also was the offensive coordinator N and that's where the team strug­gled most. Campo's defense allowed 13 points in four of its eight losses. 

page 22 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 27, 2000 
PHOENIX OPEN 
Duval is favorite in field without Tiger 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 

David Duval won't have to think about Tiger Woods at the Phoenix Open. 
Woods, the only golfer hotter than Duval the last three years, is skipping the raucous event. Last year, a fan heckling Woods was found to have had a loaded pistol in a fanny pack. 
Organizers have tightened restrictions on drinking, but the commotion from last year did not determine Woods' decision. He simply does not like to play more than four consecutive tournaments, and is expected to enter four next month. 
That leaves Duval to deal ½ith the rest of a deep field -and with the TPC of Scottsdale course itself. He has had 31 top 10 finishes since 1996, but none at Phoenix. 
"l like playing here, and I'm surprised I haven't contended a little more seriously than I have," Duval said about the 7 ,083-yard layout. 
His final rounds have ruined his chances. In 1997, when he tied for 14th, he followed scores of 66, 65 and 66 with a 7 -over 
78. He was even worse the other years -tied for 35th in 1996, 27th in 1998 and 18th last year 
"" after closing with a 7 4. 
But Duval is off to a strong start this season. lie was second in the Williams World Challenge, 
third in the Mercedes 
Championships behind Woods 
and Ernie Els and tied for fifth in 
the Bob Hope on Sunday. 
It's beginning to instill even more confidence in a player who has a world of it anyway and is looking to improve his putting. He has no quarrel with those who make him the favorite this week. 
"That's something I think I expect of myself as well," Duval said. "So if I don't feel like I have that opportunity when I start ... I don't think I should br. playing that week." 
The field features Davis Love IIJ, Vijay Singh, Chris Perry, Hal Sutton, Justin Leonard and Jeff Maggert, who all won more than $2 million last season. There's also Jcsper Parnevik, the Hope champion and 2000 money leader with $808,700 earned in three tournamr.nts. 
Duval wishes Woods -who has never won in Phoenix ­was teeing up this week. 
"When I win a golf tourna­ment, I want everybody there to feel like they have played as well as they can," Duval said. "Because I want to think I have beaten somebody when they are playing as well as they can. 
"It's no different with Tiger. I want him to walk away from a tournament that we played, and I want him to think he played the best he can and I got him. That's kind of my attitude about 
it." 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

NCAA reduces Purdue penalties 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Purdue will pay about $80,000 in penalties rather than $800,000 for violating rules on recruiting, extra bene­fits and ethical conduct in its men's basketball program, the NCM ruled Wednesday. 
The NCM's decision leaves unsettled the fate of former assistant Frank Kendrick and Purdue's 1995-96 Big Ten championship. Purdue offi­
cials said Wednesday it's too early to tell what will happen in either case. 
"It's been a long haul. A lot of different people have h<lcn involved," Purdue athletic director Morgan Burke said. 
Purdue had challenged the NCM's committee on infrac­tions, which said in June that Kendrick arranged the con­tacts leading to a $4,000 bank loan made to Purdue playor Luther Clay in August 1995. The committee also said Kendrick arranged con­tacts for !inancial assistance provided by Indianapolis businessman Gene '.\1cFadden to tho mother of former Purdue player Porter Roberts. 
The appeals committee on Wednesdav vacatr,d one find­ing against Kendrick, saying evidence the assistant arranged for the mother of a prospect to move to Indianapolis wasn't reliable. Kendrick has been reas­signed to another university position. 

The committee also reduced the financial penalty from $800,000 to $80,000. 
NCAA spokeswoman Jane Jankowski said Purdue origi­nally was fined 90 percent of all money going to the Big Ten from the 1996 NCAA tourna­ment. She said the appeals committee ruled that the school should instead return 90 per­cent of ib share after dividing the payments with other Big Ten universities. 
Purdue also will forfeit 24 games it won while Clay was on the team during the 1995-96 season when the Hoilermakers won the Big Ten championship and finished 26-6. Burke said the Big Ten's compliance com­mittee will have the final say on whether Purdue's champi­onship will be affected by the forfeits. 


Summer Service Projects 
WHAT ARE YOU DOING THE SUMMER OF 2000? 
. 
8 weeks ofservice learning with the unaerse111ed 

. 
$1700 tuition scholarship 

. 
Valuable alumni contacts 

. 
3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists . over 200 sites across the U.S. and abroad 

. 
Possibility ofadditional $1100 Americorp funds 


Applicalion, a,e aYailable al Ille CJC-opplfl nou,!
csc 
C[HTER l'OR 

Deadline: Jan 18" (,ollin9 acceplance,) 
SOCIAL 

Quertionr7 Ca(( TPACY at 631-911-0'J.
CONCERNS 

.., 

.._ 

Thursday, January 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
'Pow-er box' needs to cheer on Irish basketball team -­
Once upon a time there was a king and his jester. This king had power over a vast empire of student-;, alumni, and rabid fans. And wherever the king went. his jester was by his side. 
The king and his jester enjoyed 
being 
ent1~r­
tai11ed and 
thus 
attm1ded 
many 
sporting 
events. 
If at all possible. such as at football games, the king stayed far from th1l townsp<\ople in the comfort of' luxury boxes with other mem­b<\rs of thr aristocracy, sipping thP finest drinks aud dining on Hw best food. Most importantly, he wa:; protected from the mass­es by tinted windows and locked doors. 


Not all sports offered these luxuries though. The king enjoyed basketball very much. stemming from his days as a player. If he was to enjoy a bas­ketball game. though, he would have to grace his subjects with his presence. And so he attend­ed his beloved game sitting near thfl court in the finest seats in the building. His loyal subjects sal behind him with his jP..ster by his side. 
And so the king and his jester came faithfully to nearly every game. 
One would think that this sort of enthusiasm and support would be appreciated by his sub­jects for it isn't often that a king would lower himself to being that close in proximity to the proletariat. 
But there was something wrong with the king and there was something wrong with the jester. At least it appeared as if there was something wrong, 
For the king and his jester simply sat and stared, arms fold­ed, eyes glazed, looking as if they didn't want to be at the game. Looking as if they didn't want to be near their subjects. 
The team competed, occasion­ally looking unbeatable, occa­sionally looking incompetent. The subjects cheered, celebrat­ing the good times and roaring their encouragement through lhe bad times. Hut the king and his jester refrained and simply stared ahead. 
After the game, the loyal sub· jects filed out of the arena, some days smiling, some days shaking their heads in disapproval. But the king and his jester didn't change their expressions. they just picked up their coats and left. They didn't even clap. 
OK, so storytelling isn't my cup of toa. J'll spare you the sequel. In case the metaphor wasn't clear enough for you. J'll explain. 

WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOI3 INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAAfP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS F'RIDAY, JANUARY 28th FROM 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
Something strange happens at every Irish men's basketball game. To the let\ of the remark­ably loud student section and in front of a group of children loyal to the Dome, who scream for their heroes, is what has affec­tionately become known as "the power box." 
'The power box" is filled with a majority of the decision-mak­ing power on campus -Father Mark Poorman. Father William Beauchamp and even Father Edward Malloy. While Poorman, the newest member of "the power box," showed signs of life. cheering as a real fan does, the other two prominent figures, Malloy {our king) and Beauchamp (his jester) appeared less lively than the statue of Moose Krause lounging outside of the Joyce Center. 
They just sat there staring ahead, arms folded, chins tucked down, nearly asleep. 
Troy Murphy threw down a 
thunderous dunk and they sat ere in silence. fed Valentine made a "Ted dentine" call and they sat ere. The results of'the game didn't atter. They just sat there. It baffies me that two such ·ominent Notre Dame figures ,uld sit and be so apathetic ward their team. No, they eren't just apathetic. They ere rude. At one point, Beauchamp 1shed the leprechaun, who was ying to rouse the aforemen­Jned youngsters, out of the way 3cause the leprechaun stood in eauchamp's line of sight. No ixcuse me," just a shove. Malloy refused to acknowledge group of students chanting for 
him to stand up and join them in rooting for the school he runs. He just ignored them. 
As a player for Notre Dame from 1961-1963, Malloy should have an idea what the players are enduring on the court and how beneficial a loud crowd is to creating a tough atmosphere for opponents to play in. He should also know what it's like to play before a crowd that looks as bored as he and his executive vice president have looked this year. 
Beauchamp. on the other hand. should know the impor­tance of success of our teams. 
His primary responsibility is to act as a link between Malloy and the athletic department. Their success reflects upon the quality of his job. Why would he act so catatonically at the game? 
At what point in becoming important did these two men for­get how to have fun? The games are played so that spectators can enjoy them. not endure them. 
We can all agree that it's admirable for the two or them to attend games with the regularity that they do. But attendance is not enough. Anyone can attend class, but it is only those who lis­ten that get anything out of it. 
Don't simply attend the games. Be a fan. It's OK for important people to smile and have fun. 
If acting like you're enjoying the game is too much of a chore, then I urge you to stay home. Leave those seats open for the kids behind you. At least they look like they're alive. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
.. 

Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY for 
D0@@~7J[1@Cfu@)0@coLLeGe n1GHT SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
$1 Co•ljER (with college I.D., must be 21)V J and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. 
222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 More pictures online every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 



page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday , January 27, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Langhi's last-second free throws give win to Vandy 
Wildcats 75, Bulldogs 69 
Tayshaun Prince scored six of his 14 points down the stretch Wednesday night and No. 16 Kentuckv continued its domina­tion of Georgia with a 75-69 victory, the Wildcats' 13th straight over the Bulldogs. 
Kentucky (14-5, 5-1 Southeastern Conference) won its fourth straight overall and 10th in 11 games. Georgia (9­10, 2-5} last beat the Wildcats on Jan. 8, 1994, a ~)4-90 over­time victory. 
Saul Smith's :~-pointer 3:42 into the second half gave Kentucky a 52-43 lead. Georgia tied it 64-64 with 3:47 to play on a basket by Anthony Evans. 
But Prince and Jamaal Magloiro, who led Kentucky with 19 points, then led an 11-5 spurt over the rest of the game. Prince put the Wildcats ahead to stay at 66-64 with a basket with 3:35 left and Magloire made it 68-64 55 seconds later. 
JEFF HSU/The Observer 
Georgia got within two points 

The Vanderbilt Commodores earned its No. 20 ranking by win­
twice more, but Prince's basket 

ning the close ones. Last night Vanderbilt beat South Carolina
with 1 :40 left made it 70-66. 

61-60, and in December it beat Notre Dame 87-85 in overtime. 
Spring Break Seminars 
March 11-19, 2000 Experiential/ Service Leaming 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 10 sites in the Appalachian region 
-> An ND tradition of service-learning 







Lucas with just one second left.
Associated Press 
The senior forward calmly drilled both free throws to helpDan Langhi's two free throws the Commodores snap a four­
with one second remaining in 
game slide in South Carolina. 
the contest lifted the 20th­ranked Vanderbilt Commodores 
Cowboys 71, Wildcats 56
past the South Carolina Desmond Mason had 23
Gamecocks, 61-60, in an SEC. 
points and 10 rebounds, lead­clash at Frank McGuire Arena. 
ing the 15th-ranked OklahomaLanghi finished with 21 points State Cowboys to a 71-56 win
and 11 boards for the 
over Kansas State in a Big 12
Commodores, who moved to battle at Bramlage Coliseum.
13-3 on the season and 4-2 in 
The Cowboys (15-2, 4-1 in thethe conf'erence. ThP Gamecocks 
conference) also received 14
(9-10, 1-5 SEO have lost five 
points and nine hoards from
straight. 
Brian Montonati in beating theWith Vanderbilt leading 57­Wildcats (8-9, 1-5 Hig 12} for
56. Chuck Eidson drilled a 
the fourth consecutive time. 
jumper to give the hosts a one­Oklahoma State had a seven­
-,.. point edge with just under 
point edge with just under 12
three minutes to play. The 
minutes to go in the openingGamecocks would up their lead half, but Galen Morrison scored
to 60-57 on an Aaron Lucas seven straight points and later
basket with 59 seconds remain­
hit two free throws to giveing, but the Commodores 
Kansas State a 21-20 advan­
scored the final four points or tage with 6 1/2 minutes left.
the game to steal the win. 
The Cowboys then vvent on an
Anthony Williams' putback 
18-5 run to close the half' with 
with 23 ticks on the clock 
a 38-26 lead. Mason had 13 ofpulled Vandy within one, 60­his points at the break.
59. South Carolina then turned The Wildcats got as close as
the ball over to give the 
seven in the second half withCommodores one last chance. 
I 0:48 remaining, but theWilliams attempted a shot 
Cowboys would not let thethat was blocked by Herbert 
hosts get any closer.
Lee Davis, but Langhi picked up the loose ball and was fouled by 
.. 
•• Beginner Jan Dance 
,.c­
• 
_., Information Activity Roo 
• 
Register in Adv Sign-Ups Begin Mon 



Thursday, January 27, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Arizona wins cross­Agassi, Sampras to face off today 
state rivalry over ASU 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 

Fifth-ranked Arizona, led by freshmen guards Gilbert Arenas and Jason Gardner. routed Arizona State 82-55 Wednesday night, one point short of the most onn-sided road victory ever for the Wildc<1,ts against their arch­rivals. 
Arenas scored a career-high 24 points on 10-for-13 shooting and Gardner added 16 as the Wildcats (17-3, 6-1 Pac-10) broke the game open in the final six minutes of the first half, then turned it into a a full-fledged blowout in the second. 
Arenas also had a game-high eight rebnunds seven turnovers, five in the first half. 
Only a late spurt by Arizona State prevented the Wildcats from recording their most one­sided road victory ever in the series. The biggest win for Arizona in Tempe was 101-73 in 1988. The largest margin in the series is 40, a 99-59 Arizona vic­tory in Tucson that same season. 
The Sun Devils (11-7, 3-4), who feature six freshmen in their reg­ular rotation, lost tlrnir third in a row and shot just 33 percent, compared with Arizona's 56 per­cent. Tanner Shell and Tommy Smith each scored 10 points for the Sun Devils. 
ASU's Eddie House, the Pac­
IO's leading scorer, had his third 
consecutive sub-par shooting 
night, going 4-for-14 from the field a!)d finishing with eight points. 
Luke Walton, Loren Woods and Hick Anderson each scored 10 points for Arizona, which bounced back from Saturday's loss at Southern California. Walton's total was a career high. 
The last two times Arizona came to Tempe, the Wildcats escaped with a one-point victor~. This one was much, much easi­er. 
The Wildcats outscored the Sun Devils 16-3 over the last six minutes of the first half to take a 39-22 lead, then went on a 22-7 run to start the second half and made it 61-29 on Michael Wright's inside basket. 
The lead reached 70-33 when Anderson, one of two reserves in coach Lute Olson's seven-man rotation, made a free throw, missed the second, then grabbed the rebound and scored with 
8:12 to play. 
Both teams were sloppy. Arizona had 26 turnovers and Arizona State 22. 
The Sun Devils, who haven't beaten the Wildcats since 1995, shot 28 percent in the first half (9-for-32), compared with 57 percent (17-for-30) for Ariz~na. 
Arizona State last beat Arizona 
March 11, 1995, in Tucson. 
The game got so out of hand that both teams sent football pl.ayers onto the court ­Arizona's Peter Hansen and Arizona State's Todd Heap. Heap just joined the basketball team on Monday. 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia 
At a moment when Andre Agassi and Pete Sampras are playing arguably the best tennis of their lives, they will meet a round too soon in the Australian Open semifinals. 
It is the final before the 
final, a match that could set 
up the tournament for an 
anticlimactic finish. 
The women final would be 
infused with greater drama if 
Jennifer Capriati and Lindsay 
Davenport, Olympic champi­
ons who took different paths 
to reach the same juncture, 
were to meet for the..title. 
Instead, they will face each 
other in the semifinals. 
Reaching the semis on the 
other side of the women's 
draw Wednesday were three­
time defending champion 
Martina Hingis and 1998 
runnerup Conchita Martinez. 
Hingis crushed Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario 6-1, 6-1, and Martinez emerged a 6-3, · 4-6, 9-7 winner over Elena Likhovtseva, who had previ­ously knocked out Serena 
Williams. 
Defending men's champion 
Yevgeny Kafelnikov reached 
the semis, beating Younes RI 
Aynaoui 6-0, 6-3, 7-6 (4), and 
will face the winner of 
Wednesday night's match 
between No. 4 Nicolas Kiefer 
and No. 12 Magnus Norman. 
Agassi and Sampras both 
are anticipating the high 

"We both feel like the 
other is the potential 
guy in our way. 
Andre Agassi professional tennis player 

voltage that courses through all their matches, a charge that emanates from their days in the juniors and inten­sifies year by year as the .stakes rise and they edge closer to the end of their 
careers. 
On this occasion, Agassi 
will be seeking to become the 
first player to reach four 
straight Grand Slam finals 
since Rod Laver swept them 
all in 1969. For Sampras, 
history awaits as he tries to 
win his 13th major title and 
surpass Roy Emerson. 
"Once 6 o'clock, 6:30 
comes around, you get the 
nerves going and you feel 
like, 'This is it,"' Sampras 
said. "We are always a little 
nervous in the beginning of 
the matches, but once we get 
into it we are fine." 
Yet there is a fear that 
Sampras senses again,'lt 
Agassi and no one else. 
"He stands on the baseline 
and is basically looking you 
in the eye and saying, 'Ace 
me!' And if you don't ace 
him, he is going to pounce on 
that second serve," Sampras 
said. 
Similarly, Agassi is 
undaunted by everyone else, but he knows that Sampras 
is capable of breaking down 
his baseline game with 
relentless net attacks. 
"It's always going to be 
close and it's always going 
to be a little that decides 
the difference. He's one of 
the greatest big-situation, 

big-match players that have ever played the game. Every time we're playing, it's a stage of the tournament when he's probably the least vulnerable. Ilc's just a diffi­cult player to beat." 
The pity is that the top­seeded Agassi and the third­seeded Sampras, so obviously performing at a higher level than everyone else in the Australian Open, will meet Thursday night, not in the final Sunday. 
"It's much different playing a semi than a final," Sampras said. "It's the way the draw worked out. I would sooner walk out on Thursday with the atmosphere like a final, but we know there is a lot of work ahead, if he beats me or r beat him. On Sunday, you have that trophy sitting on the court." 
From Agassi's point of view, too, the trophy is far more important than the rivalry. 
"While I think it's better for the game if we play in the final, just because of the interest that it draws, it doesn't matter a lot," Agassi said. "We both feel like the other is the potential guy in our way." 


SafeRide Coordinator Needed 
student Government Wants to Bring SafeRide Back to You But, We Need A Coordinator 5-10 Hours/Week 
.. 
$$$ Extra Cash $$$ 
Work With Student Government and the Security Office For Info Call: 631-9888 


All Together 

r~----=-----•-"'ll-...,....,.=.,.=------•... ----.-----........-·-~ 
' 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 27, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ivey up for St. Louis honor 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior guard Niele Ivey. has been named a finalist for the College Sportswoman of the Year award. 
Nominees for the award are those from the St. Louis area who have distinguished them­selves in the community and the athletic arena. 
Ivey is a co-captain on this year's 1999-2000 Notre Dame women· s basketball team which is ranked fifth nationally with a 15-2 record. 
She is a thrfle-year starter on the Irish team, currently is one of four players averaging dou­ble figures with an 1l.4 scoring average. She leads the team in assists and steals and currently ranks ninth nationally with a 
7.0 assist average. Ivey was a third-team all-Big East Sf\lection in 1999. 
Ivey was a four-year starter at her high school, Cor Jesu, where she averaged 24.0 points per game and 8.0 rebounds per game in her final scholastic sea­son. She earned USA Today Missouri player of the year hon­ors in 1996. She finished her four-year career owning school records for points, rebounds. assists, steals and. blocked shots. 
As a junior, she led Cor Jesu to the 1995 Class 4A state championship as her team fin­ished with a perfect 31-0 record. 

February is l•.•I month. Be good to yours by participating in 
..'A.ffairs of tlie J-feart! 
February 3, 21 or 23 February 10 & 11 
7/dJI C'PJ< 2Jfood7Jriue 
6:J0-9::JOpm, !Rc5Yi'C 9am-.J:.JO, Y?c5:7?G 
Call 1-8662 to register Register @ 1-6100 Minimum of 6 participants or in the RSRC 
,.,,.., 
February 13 February 15 
Valenlr'ne ?lerobics 21/ood:JJressure 0creeniny 
2-4pm in .JO min. seymenls ll-l,4-6 
,. 
Court 1, RSRC Donation at the door RSRC Classroom 
February 23 
"Jfea.rl 72Jeffness a.mlCarcha.c %:d!Reduclion" 
12:10-12:SOp.m. 
Dr. James Fink, Director of the Mind/Body Medical Institute Cardiovascular Wellness Program, Medical Director of the Chapin Street Clinic. Please bring your questions with you to this informative talk. Notre Dame Room, Lafortune. Call I ~5829 to register. 
lYllYl~fYJ~1¥1¥1 
Sponsored by RecSports, IRISHealth & Health Services' Student Wellness Advisorv Board 
Fencing 
continued from page 28 
ing." 
Unlike most schools that rely on experienced fencers who have converted to sabre fencers. members of the Irish squad had never fenced in NCAA competition before last weekend. Last year the Irish only competed in a few exhibi­tion matches against schools with women's sabre I.earns. 
"[Last year] Wfl were just excited to have any fencing time we could," McCullough said. "At the time we had never competed at all as opposed to some fencers who came to school and had already fenced in a lot of competitions. We had never even seen comp<Hition until we got on the strip against Northwcst11rn and othflr schools that have women's sabre." 
While the sabre group trained everyday just like every other squad, it did not travel to away meets. Missing out on some of experiences last year was diffi­cult, according to Flanagan. 
"It was disappointing when they came home from away meets and had all their stories," 1-'lanagan said. "But we knew going into it that we weren't going to be doing anything last year and it was all for this year." 
Brian Banas is a big reason for the strong start by the squad. Banas, who fenced sabre on the men's side from 1996 through 1999, helped coach the women last year and has con­tinued to lend a hand this year. 
"Brian Banas really taught us everything about the basics of sabre last year," McCullough said. "Ile really took us under his wing. Our squad was kind of like his baby, I guess." 
Banas' "baby" is all grown up now and faces a stiff test this weekend when defending national champion Penn State comes to town. After such a strong showing against St. John's, Notre Dame just needs to stay upbeat, according to McCullough. 
"We need to keep the spiril. that we had last weekend," sh1\ said. "We had unbelievable spirit on the strip. All of us watched everyone's bouts and :were constantly cheering. We Just have to keep practicing hard. Attendance has never been a problem for the women's sabre team. We are pretty much putting all of our heart into it." 
No matter how the .rest of the season pans out, the opportuni­ty to be a part of the first women's sabre team in Irish history is special, according to Flanagan, 
"Rtght now I don't th.ink any­thing of it," she said. "I am just trying to do my best. But later on I will look back and be like 'Wow, I was part of the first sabre team at Notre Dame."' 

Who We Are 
Today. 
,-----·., 
-----------------------·--·---------..,------....-----------­
Thursday, January 27, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 

YOUR HAND 
RtGHi 

THROU~H ME. 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
... 

Step away from the cartoon. You are too close to the cartoon. 
beam.1@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Graphic_ 5 No-frills 
10 Deer sir 14 Something eaten with the palms? 15 Exxon alternative 16 Quaint sigh 
17 About 
18 Red Sea borderer 19 Charger's acquisition 20 Dickens's pen name 21 Fine-tune 22 C&W singer Tritt 
24 Home of the legendary Morgan le Fay 
26 They're involved in pageantry 
28 Admonition to a child 
29 Fortune 500 chemicals company 
30 Like Beethoven's Sonata No. 30 
31 Commedia dell'­
32 Helping for a while, with "over" 
34 Sheraton hotels owner 
35 Be busy 
37 One of the Chaplins 38 Phys., e.g. 40 Honest 42 They're cast 


45 "How the Other Half Lives" author Jacob 
48 Singing syllable 
49 Honeybun 50 "Seinfeld" regular 
52 Source of some 
clicking 54 More crafty 55 Extremely 56 Off-course 58 Journalist 
14  2  4  6  7  8  9  

17  
20  
24  
28  
31  

Kupcinet 
59 Note 
60 Big name in 
daytime TV 
48 
62 Cash in Capua 
52
63 B 64 Heads-up 
55 
65 Quotation notation 
59 
66 Actress Daly 
63
67 Hot spot 68 Ernie's "Sesame 1,:..-1---+--1--­
66 
Streer pat 
Puzzle by Harvey Estes and Nancy Salomon 
DOWN 
11 See ?-Down 43 Holiday window 1 "Open sesame!" 
12 Completely item sayer surrounding 44 What tellers 2 Exceed 
13 Prepares lack? 3 Jungle swinger 
21 Ad 46 Mistaken4 "So me!" 
23 Steps up? 47 Leporello, e.g., in 5 Rifle attachment 25 Stead "Don Giovanni" 6 End of grace 
27 Say "Li'I Abner," 
7 With 11-Down, say 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
3-Down's last Answers to any three clues in this puzzle LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You
33 Violinist Stem 
words? are available by touch-tone phone: should be aware of deception by busi­8 Rocks 36 Goldfinger? 1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). ness acquaintances. Use your charm 39 Rugged rock and intelligence, but don't sign docu­
9 Hold in check Annual subscriptions are available for the 
ments just yet. Correspondence will 

40Crack best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
HOROSCOPE 
12 
13 
THURSDAY,JANUARY 27, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mimi Rogers, Troy Donahue, Donna Reed, Bridget Fonda, Tracy Lawrence, Chris Collinsworth, Frank Augustyn 
Happy Birthday: You will take the road less traveled this year, and that may cause some concern for family members. You need to follow your own direction and not allow others to talk you into living your life according to their agenda. This is a period in your life where you must stand up for yourself and satisfy your needs. Your numbers: 6, 17, 25, 27, 34,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Romance is evident. Partnerships will make you happy. Your outgoing nature will contribute to your popu­larity. You can help others and receive rewards for your good actions. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Watch out for someone who may be a little underhanded. You may want to spend some additional time with children They will need extra help. Your creative abilities will be in a high cycle. 000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't even think about getting involved in 51 Put 
financial schemes. You are not likely to make smart purchases today. If
53 Stingless bee 
you must shop, look but don't buy.
57 Certain money 
00000 

transfer CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have personal problems if you
61 Schnozz tip? 
are ignoring complaints made by
62 Family dog, for 
loved ones. You must learn to let 
short 
others be who they are. Let go of the past. Your fear of change may be your demise. 00 
EUGENIA LAST 
not dear up issues. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make extra cash through home product sales or mail order. Don't put too much cash into the project to begin with. Let it grow slowly. Your business sense will be acute. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Look after your own affairs first. Get out and buy yourself those things that are sure to improve your image. You need a change, and any personal alterations you make will be favor­able today. Don't overreact to disrup­tions in your domestic scene. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Moneymaking ideas will be more than valid. Look into the red tape involved in taking such ventures to fruition. Sudden travel may be neces­sary. It is best to keep your ideas to yourself. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): Business opportunities will 
develop through the new contacts 
you make. You can get help from 
those who can make a difference. 
Changes regarding your income are 
likely. 0000 . 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You may as well forget trying to deal 
with emotional matters. You will not 
be able to reason with your loved 
ones. You can make financial gains if 
you focus onbusiness interests. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Consider traveling to countries that 
spark your interest from a cultural or 
philosophic point of view. Deal with 
relatives and in-laws who may have 
wrong perceptions. 00000 
...
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Redecorating or purchases made for your home will pay off. Help those incapable of taking care of their own financial and personal affairs. Rewards for past good deeds will be 
yours.000 

co-Nobelist 41 With pluck years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Birthday Baby: You are smart, outgoing and know exactly what it takes to become successful. You will help many people achieve their goals throutliout your life, and for this you will be praised and recognized for your contrilrutions. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, aatromate.com.) 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
tO 2000 Univeisal Press Syndicate 


Men's Basketball 

• 
• 

Saturday, Jan. 29th 
ii ~---/:: =if.
vs. #25 St. John's 
SArlmvAtJANUARY, 29
3:00pm Joyce Center 
7:30PM JOYCE CENTER 


Only true fans wanted 
Columnist Brian Chu.mey has some harsh words for basketball spectators who don't make their presence known.
PORTS 
page 23 
FENCING 

Irish fencers add bright spot with sabre squad 
By MlKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Editor 
Fifteen months ago, four women began train­ing with one purpose in mind -to help Notre Dame win a national championship in fencing in 2000. 
With 2000 as the first year of NCAA competi­tion in women's sabre, Carianne McCullough, Donna Mowchan, Katie Flanagan and Mary Beth Willard spent an entire season training and practicing in preparation for this year. As walk­ons that first started fencing in physical educa­tion class, the four tried to get their feet wet last year._ 
"Last year was getting my foot in the door," 1--'lanagan said. "I had never picked up a weapon before P.E. I didn't even know about the team. Last year I was just getting a feel for it but I always had in mind this year -knowing that I would be competing." 
Five days ago, the women's sabre team made its debut at New York University. The squad compiled a 4-0 record against top competitors St. John's, Stanford and Columbia to become the only Irish squad to start the season undefeated. 
The strong 'showing was surprising even to sabre captain McCullough. 
"I think we thought we were going to do OK," she said. "I think we had a little bit of a shock when we beat St. John's, They were supposed to be one of our toughest matches and we beat them 5-4." 
McCullough and Flanagan were joined on the strip by freshman Natalia Mazur in the first competition of the season. Mazur led the squad in wins with 10 while McCullough and Flanagan were not far behind with nine anrl eight wins, respectively. Flanagan fenced especially well against St. John's -compiling a 3-0 record. 
Head coach Yves Auriol was very pleased with the sabre team's results. 
"Most of the fencers came from the physical education program," he said. "And it is really amazing how much progress they have made in the year and a half that thAy have befm train-
see FENCING/page 26 

Me111brial Service 
_ for · Coach Mike Berticelli Thursday, January 2 7 Visitation hours: 2:00 ~ 4:00 p.m. 
6:00 ~ 8:00 p.m. McGann Funeral Home University Chapel 

2313 East Edison Road (ComerofEdison and Ironwood) 
Friday, January 28 Service at the Basilica at 3:30 


O
THE page 28 BSERVER 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

... 
Freshman Alicia Ratay scored nine points last night as Notre Dame handily defeated conference foe St. 
John's 69-49. The Irish advanced to 16-2 on the season with the victory. They have won their past 12 
games, and remain undefeated in the Big East. 
Irish extend win streak to 12 
By KERRY SMITH Assisram Sports Editor 
History repeated itself Wednesday. 
Two years ago, the Irish traveled to New York to take on the Red Storm and won by a decisive 20­
• 
... point margin. Last night, they did it again. Keeping their perfect record against the Red Storm alive at 8-0, the No. 5 Irish extended their winning streak tu 12 with a 69­49 victory. The win gives head coach Muffet lvlcGraw and the Irish their longest winning streak since the 1990-1991 season. Improving to 16-2 overall and remaining undefeated in the Big East conference, the Irish are in 
prime form heading into the final stretch of the regular season. 
Irish guard Danielle Green and center Ruth Riley paced the squad with 16 points apiece. Green took mntrol of the court in the first half, registering 11 points and putting on a solid defensive performance. 

With tight Irish defense on the Door, the Red Storm had trouble tinding the basket in the first half, connecting on just six of 32 for a season-low shooting rate of just 19 percent. 
·Despite poor shooting, the Red Storm stepped onto the court 
Groen left off on offense. Scoring 12 of her 16 points in the second half, Riley secured the win for the Irish. 
The Hed Storm came within 10 with less than seven minutes remaining in regulation, but could not rlose the gap. The Irish dis­tanced themselves with a 15-0 run to take a 67-44 lead with less than two minutes remaining on the clock. St. John's loss drops the squad to 6­
ready to play in 12 and 1-7 in the Big
Notre Dame 69,

the opPning min­East. The Red Storm
St. John's 49

utes of the game. has won only one of 
Latasha Thompson's two-pointer put the Hect Storm on top 14-13 midway through the first half'. 
The Irish defense refused to let the Hed Storm extend the lead. Instead, McGraw's squad went on a 12-1 run to lead 25-15 with eight minutes remaining in the half and extended the margin to 33-19 by the buzzer. 
That type of stifling defense has been typical for the Irish in confer­ence games this season. Solid play has resulted in an opponents' scor­ing average of just less than 55 points per game. 
From the opening tip of the sec­ond half, Riley picked up where their last l Ogames. 
The Irish were forced to rely on their inside game to beat the Hed Storm -for the first time this season the Irish failed to drain a shot from behind the arc. Three-point sharpshooter Alicia Ratay was held to just nine points and made only two three-point attempts all night. 
Scoring in double digits for the 16th time in 18 games, Riley remains the leading scorer for the Irish this season. 
The Irish win capped a three­game away stint with the win. 
Notre Dame returns to the Joyce Center Saturday night to take on Georgetown. 
Men's Swimming 

-
vs. St. John's 

at Alaska-Fairbanks vs. Oakland University ar 
Saturday, 3 p.m. 

Friday, 7:05 p.m. Milwaukee
SPORTS ~ Fencing 
Saturday, 1 p.m. 
vs. Penn State 

ATA • 
Saturday and Sunday 

vs. Georgetown
Track and field vs. Olivet 
Saturday, 7 p.m. 
at Indiana Saturday, 3 p.m. 
GLANCE 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. 






