Full Election Coverage 
This election season is nearing completion with 15 House and Senate races and the run for the 
Wednesday
White House left in the balance. Look to The Observer's coverage of2000 local and national campaigns. 
See pullout 
-NOVEMBER 8, 2000 

The Independent Newspaper Sewing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 51 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



TOO CLOSE TO CALL 

Total National Votes 
5:40 a.m. GORE: 47,811,320 BUSH: 47,603,233 
Total Florida Votes 
5:40 a.m. GORE: 2,905,390 BUSH: 2,904,403 
Courtesy of CNN.com 

George W. Bush (left) and Al Gore (right) are locked in one of the tighest political battles in history. Reports had candidates swapping the lead position throughout the night. Final results are expected later today. 

Florida holds key votes in what may be the tightest presidential race in history as poll workers head back for a recount 
when NBC poll figures showed nally gave the state to Gore, ing he was not going to con­A Bush victory would give
Observer Staff Report 

the vice-president with a 554 but. backtracked .as Bush cede the election. America its second father-son 
vote lead nationally over Bush. eased ahead. "There's never been a night presidents after John Adams 
Gore had tallied 47,811,320 Gore was prepared to con­like this one," said William (1797-01) and John Quincy
Despite network declara­

votes as of 5:40 a.m.. cede the election after vote Daley, after his boss retired Adams (1825-29).
tions of a Bush victory early 

The vote margin in Florida projections showed a Bush for the night -unsure Two other states were still
Wednesday morning, Texas 

between tvlr. Bush and Gore victory in whether he to close to call at press time:
Governor George W. Bush 

wavered between a low of 629 Florida, but had won or Oregon and Wisconsin also 
cannot yet move into the "There's never been a
votes and high of 1,200 votes he decided not. reported narrow margins.
White House. 
in the early hours of the morn­not to when night like this one." "Until the Wisconsin reported Gore with
Bush maintains a slight lead 

ing. Poll workers were called new figures results in a 233 vote lead early
in Florida this morning, where 
back to Dade County, Fla. showed the Florida Wednesday morning, while
the state's 25 electoral votes William Daley 
shortly after 4 · a.m. margin in that become offi­Oregon's statistics also report­
remain the deciding factor in 

Wednesday to recount state's state was just campaign chainnan cial our cam­ed that the candidates' mar­
one of the closest presidential 

votes. Under Florida state law, a few hundred for Al Gore paign contin­gins w~re narrow. 
races in history. Florida could 

the narrow margin of the elec­votes, and its ues," Daley Gore won Iowa, a 
put either Bush or Gore over 

tion called for a mandatory electoral votes said to cheer­Democratic bastion that near­
the edge of the 270 necessary 

recount. would not be ing support­ly went to Bush.
electoral votes needed to win 

Florida had been the epicen­assigned to either candidate ers iri Nashville. With Florida officials contin­
the election. 
ter Qf the campaign as a criti­yet. The election offers voters a uing their tally, the New York
Gore surged ahead in the 

cal swing state, and was tur­"Unbelievable," sighed Bush choice of four more vears of Times said Bush had won and 
nation's popular vote slightly 
bulent throught evening elec­adviser Karen Hughes, after Demo-cratic rule • or a
before 5 a.m. this morning, 
tion returns. Networks origi-fielding a call from Gore say~ Republican "fresh start." see ELECTION/page 4 

CLINTON CLINCHES NEW YORK 
Hillary beats Lazio 56-44. See election pullout page 5. 

ROEMER EDGES CHOCOLA 
Newcomer loses 52-48 to veteran. See pullout page 4. 
O'BANNON RETAINS POSITION 
Incumbent defeats McIntosh 56-42. See pullout page 4. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Show support: stop laughing 
How many times have you heard a joke or comment that humiliates or degrades an indi­vidual, race or orientation and I.hen proceeded to laugh? I cannot say that I am perfect and never laughed after hearing one of these jokes, but for quite some time I Kl b 
1
have made it a point to m er Y 
avoid laughing at or say-Springer 
ing these poor jokes and 
remarks. I•ather Gary 
Interim Ads 
Chamberland, eloquently 
Manager
states one of the reasons I 
strive to do this in his 
article in the Nov. 2 
Campus Considerations advertisement. 
I take this opportunity t.o commend Father Chamberland for his challenge to the Notre Dame community "to make an honest examina­tion of conscience" and to assess our "attitudes. words and behaviors". I cannot possibly com­prehend the feelings and confusion an individ­ual encounters as they come to understand their sexual orientation·in the world. let alone at this University. Unfortunately. Notre Dame tends to be closed-minded toward homosexual­ity. Therefore, it takes even greater courage to "come out'' at Notre Dame than It would in another environment. Too often I hear pointed insults on this campus about gays and lesbians and it absolutely enrages me because these people are not merely insulting gays and les­bians -they are also insulting the family and friends of gays and lesbians. These comments hit home for me because although I am not gay, my best friend from home is. 
After a difficult struggle, my best friend determined his sexual orientation the summer before our senior.year in high school and he has "come out" to several individuals. including his mother. But he has not told his father because he fears the outcome. This fear should not exist and my best friend should be free to express his true self and not have to hide who he is in order to avoid hatred and ostracism. I love my friend for who he is, and the fact that he is gay and brave enough to openly share that trait makes him even more special. 
I constantly wonder when people will open their mind to people or ideas that differ from their own beliefs or ideals. Why is it that the minute someone reveals they are bi-sexual or gay, they a.re suddenly a. completely different person? When my best friend sat down with me and explained what he was experiencing, our friendship was strengthened because he trusted me with this difficult decision. But at the same time, l felt horrible for all the sense­less discrimination I knew he would endure. 
Some individuals believe themselves to be distant from gays and lesbians, but in reality, they probably work alongside or are friends with a homosexual person without even know­ing. Just as Father Chamberland stated, "Homosexuals live and work at our University; they are our teachers and our classmates; they work in our offices and empty our trash." Therefore, I strongly advocate his challenge: that we strive to create an environment that respects gays and lesbians for who they are and "commit [ourselves] to acknowledging the goodness and worth of every person, gay or straight." If you do make a conscious effort to do these things, it might be your best friend that finds the courage and strength he or she needs to reveal his or her true self to you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Finn Pressly Graphics Liz Zanoni 
Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Tim Casey Rachael Protzman Viewpoint Kerry Smith Patrick McElwee Lab Tech Scene Molly Walsh Laura Kelly 
·11,c Olncrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi,hed Momlay through Friday <;XCCpt during cx.,m and va~tlon pcriu<ll>. The Observer 1:s .a m~mhcr of the A!lsoi.:iated l'rcss. AJl rc-productjon rights. arc re5erved. 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Wednesday Thursday 
. Free flu shots: Available . Fall Choral Concert: to all' Notre Dame student,;, Saint Mary's Women's faculty, and staff. Requires Choir and SMC-ND Notre Dame identification Collegiate Choir. 7:30 card and short sleeves. 9 to p.m., O'Laughlin 4 p.m.. Hesburgh Library Auditorium Concourse and the Dooley Room. Lafortune 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
UCLA students debate FAFSA question 
LOS ANGELES 

A federal drug conviction provi­sion has left more than 7,000 stu­dents with either partial or no gov­ernment assistance this academic year. 
Under the drug provision, which Congress included in amendments to the Higher Education Act of 1998, applicants may be ineligible for financial aid if they have more than two convictions for possession or more than one conv"iction for selling drugs. 
Students may regain their eligibil­ity by entering and completing a drug rehabilitation program that includes two unannounced drug tests. or by having the conviction reversed. 
For some students. losing finan-

UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON 
TAs vote to strike in favor of union 
With their polling stations closing last Friday, 86 per­cent of graduate teaching assistants voted to strike if the Universtity of Washington administration refuses to rec­ognize their union. More than 1,100 graduate TAs par­ticipated in the four-day vote, resulting in 984 votes in favor of a strike if necessary. "The number of teacher's assistants on campus range from 1300 to 1400 every quarter," said Melissa Meade, member of Graduate Student Employee Action Coalition/United Auto Workers. "We're pretty pleased with the turnout." GSEAC organiz­ing committee member Ken Lang agreed. "It's exciting," Lang said. "It's another huge mandate for the University to respect our demand for collective bargaining." Since 1998, GSEAC/UAW has argued that a graduate TA union will improve wages, working conditions. job security and employee benefits. Organizing two union card drives last winter and spring. GSEAC reported more than 80 per­cent of UW graduate students support a collective bar­gaining agreement. Despite the majority, UW adminis­trators refused to recognize GSEACIUAW. 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeadler 11,,=ist frr daytim: conditionsand high temperntures 
I 
}~--­

Thurs. ay Friday Satur ay Sunda,y\ I 
,, 

Mon,day
~_,,i ..··J... ·, ~v,,,.,.\.,J; 

4AQ,~yQQ. ~u 
Showers T-stouns Ram Fl.;,;,es s~d~ Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
V,a Associated P18ss GraphicsNot 



UCLA 
cial aid due to a drug violation could mean the end of their educa-· tion. 
"I would have to drop out of school because I am dependent on financial aid," said Bernardo Castro, a first-year chemical-engi­neering student at the University of California at Los Angeles."I would 
Friday Saturday 
. Stadium tours: Stadium . Concert: "Concert for the will be open to visitors. Missions," Notre Dame Folk 
11 :30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., Choir, 9 p.m., Basilica of enter at the Leahy Gate of the Sacred Heart Juniper Road . Pep rally: Gates open 
. Performance: "Under to the public at 6:10 p.m., Milk Wood," 8 p.m.. Little Gate 10, Joyce Center Theater 
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Gene therapy lawsuit settled 
The family of Jesse Gelsinger settled their wrong­fu I death and negligence lawsuit against the 
University of Pennsylvania and others involved with Penn's Institute for Human Gene Therapy for an undisclosed amount of money last week. The settle­ment, announced on Friday, comes just six weeks after Gelsinger's family filed the lawsuit, and more than a year after 18-year-olct Jesse died while partic­ipating in a Penn gene therapy trial, becoming the first known patient to die as a result of gene therapy. Gelsinger's death prompted the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to suspend all human experiments at the !HGT and brought Penn national scrutiny for its scientific research methods. Last summer, the administration dramatically reduced the IHGT's mandate. "This has been a difficult year for every­body involved, and we are pleased that we have been able to reach an amicable resolution of the lawsuit," university president Judith Rodln said in an e-mail statement. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
FRONTS: 
............................ 

<!:> 2000 AccuWealher, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
PllHurt: 

®© ......
High low Showara Ruin T-stotm• Flutrlea Snow lea sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
i1J Assocfaled Pross 

Atlanta  74  62  Las Vegas  84  60  Portland  52  40  
Baltimore  65  50  Memphis  65  53  Sacramento  66  53  
Boston  53  45  Milwaukee  48  39  St. Louis  71  58  
Chicago  52  43  New York  61  51  Tampa  83  56  
Houston  65  45  Philadelphia  65  49  Washing1on  DC 68  53  

have to depend on my parents and get a full-time job." 
As of Oct. 22, the U.S. Department of Education reported that more than 8.6 million students had applied for financial aid. according to Joe Aiello, media rela­tions director for Student Financial Assistance at the department: 
He said 91 percent of those appli­cants were fully eligible for federal aid under the new drug provision, while only .07 percent, or 5,675 applicants, were partially eligible. Those eligible for partial aid may gain full eligibility one to two years after their last conviction or if they complete a drug program. 
Less than 1 percent, or 1,327 stu­dents, were ineligible because of recent drug convictions. 
Wednesday, November 8, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
f ACULTY SENATE 

MeIDbers OK Student Senate rep 
By TIM LOGAN Senior StaffWrirer 
For years, students have sat in on Faculty Senate meetings. 
Now,  a  faculty member will  
have  a  seat in  the Student  
Senate.  

Stuart Greene, an associate professor in the University Writing Program, was unani­mously approved to represent the faculty to the voice of the student body. 
Greene has served on the Faculty Senate's Student Affairs Committee for three years. In that time. he has been a part of several major resolutions. including ones supporting the Women's Resource Center and The Observer's independence. 
Currently. Greene is working with student and faculty lead­ers ·on revisions to Notre Dame's Honor Code. 
He is looking forward to the new challenge as a go-between for student and faculty leaders. 
"I've always worked closely with students, and thought I could be an advocate for stu­dents on the Faculty Senate," Greene said. 
He said he hopes to open the lines of communications between students and faculty on important issues that the two groups tackle. 
The motion to put a faculty representative on the Student Senate initially came out of that group. Earlier this term, the Senate passed a resolution ask­ing for a Faculty representa­tive. Greene has been doing the job on an interim basis, and Wednesday, he was given it full-time. He is also one of two faculty representatives on the Campus Life Council. 

In other Faculty Senate News: 
. 
While election returns came in from across the nation Tuesday night. finance profes­sor Richard Sheehan was awaiting some results of his own. Sheehan ran for South Bend School Board. 

. 
Student body president Brian O'Donoghue and Dillon Hall senator Brendan Dowdall met with the Student Affairs Committee to discuss student concerns and tactics for influ­encing University policies. · 


"They had some very politi­cally astute recommendations to make to the committee," said Ed Manier, the committee's chair. 

Career Showcase to host over 40 exhibits 
By KATIE RZEPKA 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College will host the 17th Annual Showcase of Careers Thursday to help students navigate the seemingly over­whelming search for a career. 
The event is co-sponsored by the College's Counseling and Career Development Center and the Board·of Governance. 
"The main idea that we want to get across to students is career exploration," said David Wilkeson, assistant director for Career Development. 
Wilkeson said that the showcase is geared toward all students. First-year students and sophomores may gather information to assist them in selecting majors and defining career direction. The. show­case provides a chance to learn more about the world of work and to talk informally 
with employer representa­tives. 
Juniors and seniors can benefit too, he said. The showcase provides students the ability to access up-to­date career information and learn about possible intern­ships. 
Nearly 40 organizations will visit campus to offer informa­tion about employment oppor­tunities, internships, graduate school and volunteer pro­grams. The variety ranges from Arthur Anderson to WSBT-TV to the Peace Corp. 
"There are internship and job opportunities. That's, why we ask people to bring their 
resumes,"  said  Jolanta  
Szumial, Career  Services  
Secretary.  

Employers will gain as well because they have the oppor­tunity to reach a large num­ber of prospects in a short amount of time. 
The showcase ·runs from 3 to 5 p.m and will be held in the LeMans lobby. 
NEED A LOAN? Morrissey Loan Fund Up to ~250 at 1% interest rate for 30 days (must be a ND student) La Fortune Student Center Across from the Information Desk Mondays from 3:00-4:00 Tuesday-Friday from 12:30-1 :30  


November 7 -November 10 9am -9pm November 11 9am -5pm free admission open to the public Century Center Convention Hall B 
120 South St. Joseph St., South Bend, IN 46601 
We accept VISA, MasterCard, American Express•!: J.Crew credit cards. cash, and personal checks (with proper identification). 
Directwns From the North or South· St. Joseph Street is anoithbound one-way stree_t. the continuation ot BusinESS US 31. through downtown South Bend from t11e South, the Century Center is en the right s1<le of t11e street ne,:t to the river. T!1e parking lot rs on tile sou,h side of the Center. From the North. US 31/933 becomes Main Street (or.e•way southbound) rn downtown South Bend Follow snulhbound. tum left to Jefferson. turn 1eft to St. Josepti Street Century 
Center 1s on the right side. , from the East Indiana foll Road 80/90 westbound, look for South Bend Exit 7, Notre Dame. Turn flghl at tl;e oottom ol tho ramp. head southbsund on US 311933 into the middle of town rum left at Jetterson Street into the Centur; Cer.ter p,nk1ng lot. . , . 
·294 westbound. exit Route 12 towards Niles. Cross US 31 and St. Jose_ph River E,.1, US _31,933 to Soutll Bend. Take~ left on Jefferson Street. Century Center parking 1s ,~the_en~ of tne street. From the West. lndia~a Toll Road 80/90 eastbr,und, look for South Bend txit , 7•_l . lre Dame. Turn right at the bottom of thermo. head snufhbourd on US 31/933 mto the m•odle of the 
town.1urn \eit at Jefferson Street rn\o \he CtnturJ Center p~r~ing lot. • 294 eastbGund across the Michigan ~late line. the second exit 1s marked Roule 12 Niles. biL and turn right ~n Rour1, !Z. Cross US 31 ar:d St. Joseph River. Exit US 31/933 to South Bend. Talle a!eft on Jefferson Street. Century Center parKing is at the and of ti1e street. 
Thu know that noise your heart makes when you work out? 
IT'S CALLED APPLAUSE. 
Think of each beat as your heart's way of cheering you on for staying physically active. Want a standing ovation? Try keeping your diet low in cholesterol and saturated fat too. For more ways to lower your risk of heart attack and 
.. . h rt ~ 
stroke, vrsrt www.amencan ea .org American Heart 4&a or call 1-800-AHA-USA1. Association.V 
Fighting Heart Disease and Strek• 
---------_j 

page4 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, November 8, 2000 


Student jets to Jersey to coIDplete civic duty 

family. She added she believes
By ERIN LaRUFFA 

that voting is important
Associate N.-w, Editor 

enough to be worth spending 
money for a plane ticket and 
missing her classes. 

At 2 a.m. Tuesday morning, Most of Donne11y·s genera­Notre Dame junior Kelly ti on, however, would not Donnelly decided to fly half make such a sacrifice. In fact, 
way across the country to less than 1/3 or 32 percent, of vote. 18 to 24-year olds voted in 
''I didn't like the idea of tho 1996 prosidential election. missing this election, it being "If everyone thinks that so close and 
their vote 
all," Donnelly said from her home in Edison, N.J. "If I didn't come, it was something I would regret for the rest of  "Ifeveryone thinks that their vote doesn't matter. nothing is ever going to get done ... You 're giving up the right to have a voice."  doesn't mat­ter, nothing is ever going to get done," Donnelly said. "You're giving up the right to have a voice."  
my life." Donnelly  Kelly Donnelly  A major motivation  
purchased  junior  behind  
her ticket at 2 a.m .. and had to wake  Donnelly's decision to fly home was the  

up at 4 a.m. to make her G closeness of the presidential 
a.m. 11ight. race in New Jersey.

!\!though she had discussed "Gore's ahead, but he's onlythe plan with her mother, no ahead by the margin of one in her family knew defi­error," Donnelly said, in 
nitely that she was coming. regards to pre-election pollsDonnelly arrived in New in her state. York's LaGuaraia airport at Although she agreed with 
9:30 a.m. She took a train to much of Green Party candi­her hometown and called her date Ralph Nader's environ­surprised grandmother for a mental and other policies,ride the rest of the way home. Donnelly said she decided to 
"They all think that it's vote for the Gore/Lieberman great that I came home just to ticket because the race was so vote," Donnelly said about her close between Bush and Gore. 

UVE, STUDY AND WORK 

ABROAD WHILE EARNING COLLEGE CREDIT 
• 
Year and semester-long programs in JAPAN, CHINA, ISRAEL, INDIA, ENGi.AND OR COSTA RICA. 

• 
Year-long program in Comparative Religion & Culture in TAIWAN, THAILAND, INDIA and ISRAEL 


Experitnti,,I !em-rung tlrrough cultural immersion, 
academic seminar,, and indep,,u/,,nt field study make, frirnd.s World ,he ,duccuional experience of a Ufetime. 
FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM 
l.oNGlsIAND
(631) 287-8474 ~RSS-,­e-mail: fw@southampton.liunet.edu J_~ www.southarnpton.edu/fw 219 Monrauk Highway• Southampton, NY 11968 
GLOBAL EDUCATION FOR SOCIAL CHANGE 


Isn't It Exciting
To Be 21? 

Happy Birthday, Jen! 
Love, from all of us 


Bush? Gore? Who's the leader? Check out tomorrow's coverage. 



COVIRID IN NAILS: 
A TRIBUTE TO NINI 
INCH NAILS 
Various Attis'5 
DANNY flNAGLIA 
London 







Election 
continued from page 1 

congratulated him on "the ama,:.ing politicul feat of Jap­ing to the White llouse after only six years in public 
MINISTRY OF SOUND'S \ 15r.los:,) SASHA TRANCE NAnON AMERICA ----· ·' 
San Francisco Various Arlis'5 
MEDIDPLAY" 
Your Entertainment Super•tore 
For the store nearest you, 
Join Replay:
call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
The dub that rewords you, 
love of entertainment. uo


MediaPlay.com-
Ask onOCigfe for dAloili
,ndna may vary ontlne:. 
office." The New York Post reported that Bush was the winner as well, publishing their morning editon with the headline "Bush Wins!" 
Green Party candidate Halph Nader only captured 3 percent or the national vote, falling short of the 5 percent of the vote needed for the Green Party to be eligible for federal funding in the next election. Nader did well enough to potentially tip sev­eral states to Bush. however. 

The Associated Press con-· tributed to this report. 
Sale ends November 18, 2000. 
Cassettes ovoiloble on .elec;t titlo1. 
8275015811 












ATION 
Wednesday, November 8, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Muslim rebels release prisoners: 
About 100 suspected Muslim rebels used rocket-propelled grenades in a daring jail assault early Tuesday, freeing a rebel leader and 67 other prisoners, officials said, One prisoner was killed and five people injured, including two guards, in the clash at the jail in Apupong, a village near General Santos City in the southern Philippines. police said. 

Saudis open bord·er with Iraq: 
Saudi Arabia has opened its border with Iraq for the first time since the 1991 Gulf War to facilitate exports, a newspaper reported Tuesday. Saudi companies signed contracts worth $600 under an exception to U.N. sanc­tions that allows Iraq to export oil to pay for food, medicine and humanitarian supplies, the paper said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Children get E. Coli at petting zoo: As many as 21 children became infected with 
E. coli during a visit to a petting zoo in Lansdale, PA., health officials say. Two of the children, girls ages 3 and 4, remained on kid­ney dialysis Tuesday. E. coli infections have been confirmed in 12 of the children and are suspected in nine others. All of them had vis­ited Merrymead Farm. Investigators from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have been at the farm collecting feces· and analyzing the water supply and animal health to try to pinpoint the source of the bacteria. 
15 years later, Oregon girl found: An 18-year-old woman who vanished 15 years ago was reunited with her family after she wandered into a sheriffs office and asked for help. Fallon Marie Hodges allegedly van­ished with her baby sitter, but the disappear­ance was not reported at the time, the Medford Mail Tribune in Eugene reported. 

INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Rally and festival respond to KKK : A Christian-themed rally planned for Saturday in Elkhart is a response to another rally scheduled that day -one by the Ku Klux Klan. And on the same day, the Heart of Elkhart Ethnic Festival is also being held to showcase the city's diversity. The city had already scheduled the ethnic festival when the Klan received approval for its rally. City officials decided to focus a spotlight on the ethnic festival as an alternative to the Klan gathering. Rally organizor, Edith Pasley, expects most people to attend the festival. 
Market Watch 11 /7 
Dow 



10,952.18 -25.03 
]ONES 
• 
Composite
UP-: Same: I.'111: 
Volume;

l."163 538 
NIA 
AMEX: 919.10' +6;16 
Nasdaq: 3415.79 -0.42 
NYSE: .,,L§~'.?2 ~0.87 ;*---:--;--/. S&P 500: 1431.87 -0.32 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURilY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (C5CO) ,2.95 , 1.62 56.75 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) .4,93 -L37 26.SG 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) , 1.44 , 1.00 70.50 
WORlDCOM INC (WCOM) -1.01 -0. I 8 17.88 
]OS UNIPHi\SE(JDSU) -4.28 ·3,3l 74.12 
ISRAEL 


Associated Press 

JERUSALEM 
Israel's prime minister Ehud Barak said Tuesday, in the clearest terms yet, that a Mideast peace treaty would produce a "viable Palestinian state" but he would not make conces­sions to the Palestinians under the threat of vio­lence. 
In new rock-throwing clashes and gun battles in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, a Palestinian was killed and more than 50 were wounded. 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat on Tuesday renewed a call for the deployment of a 2,000­strong U.N. protection force that would shield Palestinians against Israeli troops. Arafat said he would raise the demand when he meets with President Clinton at the White House on Thursday. 
The U.N. Security Council was to discuss the Palestinian request on Wednesday. The United States and Israel oppose an international force. However, U.S. officials did not say whether they would veto the proposal, and diplomats, including some from the United States, noted that interna­tional observers were dis­patched in the past to the tense West Bank town of Hebron. 
Barak, who is to meet with Clinton on Sunday. sent a letter to heads of government worldwide to explain Israel's position. Barak said Israel has acted with utmost restraint, while the Palestinian Authority has been trying to "replace the peace process with an armed• struggle." 
The Israeli leader said he made concessions dur­ing a Mideast summit at Camp David in July. "We could resume negotiations which -based on the ideas discussed at Camp David -will lead to the creation of a viable Palestinian state," Barak wrote, "or we can suc­cumb to the route of vio­1ence and unilateral Palestinian action." 

If the Palestinians choose violence, he warned, "Israel will be forced to take measures to ensure the security of our citi­zens." 
In the past. Barak has said he would not absolutely rule out the cre­ation of a seperate Palestinian state, hut Tuesday's statement was his clearest promise yet of an eventual Palestinian independence. 
Spain monitors Basque separatists 
the four suspects were also detained, arrived in the Spanish capital on Oct.
Associated Press 

although it was not immediately 31, a day after a car bomb explosion MADIUD known if they belong to ETA. which in Madrid killed a Supreme Court 
Police broke up a Basque sepa­has been fighting for Basque inde­judge. his driver and his bodyguard, ratist commando group in Madrid pendence for more than 30 years. Interior Minister Jaime Mayor Oreja that may have been just days away As part of tho operation, police said. from staging an attack, the govern­raided an apartment late Tuesday in The suspects did not take part in ment said Tuesday. the northeastern citv of Barcelona that bombing but were studying tar­
Police on Monday arrested two and arrested two· women. one· gets for a new attack and were prob­women and two men believed to French and the other Argentine, who ably weeks away from acting, he belong to the armed Basque sepa­both had recently lived with one of said. Police who arrested them ratist group ETA and found four the Madrid suspects and whose links seized two pistols and three sets of apartments allegedly used as safe with the armed group were being false identity papers. houses. The women were arrested as investigated, a spokesman of the Mayor Oreja said the dragnet they left the Cuban Embassy. Interior Ministry said. began when the suspects realized 
Two other people accompanying The suspected ETA members that they were under surrvaliance. 
Wednesday, November 8, 2000
page6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

TANZANIA 

Chaotic election ends with ruling party win 
Associated Press 
ZANZIBAH 
The ruling party candidate was proclaimed Zanzibar's new president Tuesday, ending a chaotic nlection that was criti­cized by international observers and by an opposition that said it would not recognize the results. 
The Zanzibar Electoral Commission, hand-picked by thn ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi party, said party leader Amani Karume won 67 percent of' the vote in the semi­au ton om o us region, while 
the leader of 
International donors cut 
ties.
the opposition 

all financial aid to Karume,
Civic United 

52, is the son
Front, Sr.if Zanzibar in 1995 after 

of Zanzibar's
Sharif llamad, 
observers said that the 

first presi­
got 33 percent. 

election was rigged_ dent, Abeid
International 
and Tanzanian . election moni­
tors said the original Oct. 29 
vote was fundamentally flawed 
because of stolen ballot papers, 
voting irregularities and police 
interference. 
A rerun was held in 16 dis­
tricts on Sunday to address 
some of those problems, but 
the Civic United Front had 
demanded new elections in all 
50 districts under an interim 
government to guarantee a fair 
vote. 
Despite opposition calls for a 
boycott of Sunday's vote, the 
electoral commission said a 
total of 85 percent of 
Zanzibar's 446,482 registered 
voters took part in the elec­
tions. 
As soon as the results were 
announced, hundreds of jubi­
lant Chama Cha Mapinduzi 
supporters took to the streets 
of the impoverished island 
region, chanting the party's 
name and singing campaign 
songs. 
In opposition-dominated 
neighborhoods. shops were 
closed and people cleared the 
streets. Civic United Front ofli­
cials have told their supporters 
to stay indoors to avoid any confrontation with police or ruling party supporters. 

The electoral commission said the ruling party had won 34 scats in Zanzibar's 50-mcm­ber l louse of Hepresentativcs, a two-thirds majority that will allow it to alter the islands' constitution. The Civic United Front won 16 seats, all on Pemba, the smaller of Zanzibar's two populated islands. 
Chama Cha Mapinduzi lead­ers and electoral commission officials have said they arc sat­isfied that the election was free and fair and deny there were any serious irregulari­
Karume, who 
was assassi­nated in 1972. He has dis­tanced himself from outgoing Zanzibari President Salmin Amour, who is reportedly under investigation for fraud. 
Zanzibar united with Tanganyika in 1964 to form the United Republic of Tanzania. Zanzibar, a group of islands offshore, retained a limited amount of autonomy, including its own president and legisla­ture. 
Chama Cha Mapinduzi faces no serious competition on the mainland. But voting in Zanzibar has been plagued by problems this year and in the nation's first multiparty elec­tion, in 1995. 
International donors cut all financial aid to Zanzibar in 1995 after observers said that election was rigged, and the sanctions arc now expected to remain in place. 
Serious riots followed 1995 vote, but this year police used beatings and arrests to avert opposition protests. The Civic United Front said more than 150 opposition members were arrested in the week after the Oct. 29 vote. 
2000-0 I Season Notre Dame Film,Television, and Theatre Presents 

by Eric Bogosian, William Finn, John Guare, Tony Kushner, Marsha Norman, Ntozake Shange, Wendy Wasserstein 
DIRECTED BY SIIRI SCOTT 

Some themes and language in this play may be offensive to some viewers. 
PLAYING AT  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15  7:30 PM  
WASHINGTON HALL  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16  7:30 PM  
RESERVED SEATS $9.  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17  7:30 PM  
SENIOR CITIZENS $8.  SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18  7:30 PM  
ALL STUDENTS $6.  su·NDAY,  NOVEMBER 19  2:30 PM  

TICKETS ME AVAILASLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. 
MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-81 '28. 
CAMBODIA 

Hospitals face rise in acid attacks 
Associated Press 

PHNOM PENII 
In Cambodia, awash in weapons after decades of war. there are plenty of ways to take revenge. But for thusc who throw acid instead of' grenades, the aim is not to kill hut to strip a woman of her beauty. 
And unlike in other coun­tries where acid-burning is usually done by men, in Cambodia some two-thirds of attacks are perpetrated by women. 
"J have little hope for any­thing now," whispers 17 -year­old Tat Somarina, a model and karaoke star who was doused with nitric acid one year ago in a high-profile attack by the wife of a man she was seeing. 
Doctors and human rights workers count at least 20 copycat attacks since Somarina's, and many more probably have gone unreport­ed, 
Some blame rapid social change. Though still one of the world's poorest countries, a market economy and interna­tional aid after years of' isola­tion and communism have bred a rich urban elite. 
Girls don't get equal access to education, so beauty is often the only ticket to a com­fortable life. 
Bigamy, once discouraged, has become commonplace among the male elite. 
"It's not seen as a moral issue any more, even if the girl is very young," said Oung Chanthol, executive director of the Cambodian Women's Crisis Center. which provides acid victims with shelter and basic medical treatment. 

A woman whose husband takes a "second wife" may beg him to stop or threaten the newcomer. But if she resorts to acid, it is most likely to be against the other woman, not the man. 
Somarina now lives with a brother in Lynn, Mass. Her skin is a thick, immobile mask, her nose reduced to two holes her newly reconstructed lip~ swollen and raw. 
She will undergo years of treatment at Shrincrs Hospitals in nearby Boston, but has little hupii ol' regaining anything like her former looks. 
SOUTH AFRICA 

Passenger trains collide south of Johannesburg, at least 2 killed 
Associated Press 

JOHANNESBURG 
Two passenger trains crashed head-on late Tuesday afternoon, killing at least two people and injuring 76 others, police said. 
The two Metro Hail trains apparently were traveling toward each other on the same track and collided about 4:30 p.m. in Wadeville, and industrial area south of Johannesburg, Superintendent Andy Pieke told The Associated Press. 
"There's one coach on top of the other so it's really dilTicult at this stage to determine what may have happened," he said. 
Rescue workers were trying to get into some of the damaged carriages to see if people were trapped inside, Pieke said. 
The trains have the capacity to carry hun­dreds of people, though it was unclear how many were aboard at the time of the accident, he said. 
The South African Press Association reported the two dead were the trains' drivers. 
One of the trains was traveling to the Johannesburg suburb of' Katlehong, while the other was headed toward the suburb of Elsburg. 

Wednesday, November 8, 2000 

The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
DENMARK 

Queen Mother Ingrid dies at 90 
+Swedish-born queen helped modernize crown 
Associar<"d Press 
COPENHAGEN 
Swedish-born Queen Mother Ingrid, beloved for her casual, forthright style and mother of Denmark's first female monarch in five centuries, died Tuesday, the royal palace said. She was YD. 
Ingrid died at 4:27 p.m. at the rrcdensborg Castle north of the capital, Copenhagen, the palace said. Her three daughters ­Queen l\turgrethe. Princess Bonedikte and ex-Queen Anne­Marie of Greece -and 10 grandchildren were by her bed­side. 
"Denmark today has lost a wise queen and a great human being with a deep solicitude for our whole country," Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Hasmussen said in a statement 
Dozens of people with torches and candles silently gathered outside Fredensborg Castle, while others laid !lowers at the central royal palace in down­town Copenhagen. 
"When she said something, everyone listened. She was everybody's grandmother," said Michael Birk, a 43-year-old computer consultant. 
Ingrid Victoria Sofia Louise Margaretha was born March 28. 1910, at the royal castle in Stockholm, Sweden. She was the only daughter of Sweden's King Gustaf VI Adolf, a great-grand­daughter of England's Queen Victoria and an aunt of Sweden·s current King Carl XVI Gustaf. 
She married then-Crown 

Prince Frederik of Denmark at insisting on system, order and the age of 25 and entered accuracy in her undertakings. Europe's oldest royal house, Ingrid remained active into old putting her mark on the monar­age, though osteoporosis often chy from her earliest years as forced her to use a wheelchair crown princess. in recent years and she broke 
Ingrid was credited with help­her hip bone in a fall in 1997. ing to shape the modern: demo­She was patron to some 40 cratic royal way of doing busi-social welfarn and aid organiza­
ncss,  an  tions, compil­ 
approach car­ried on by her daughter Q u e e n Margrethe 11, th c first woman to take  "Denmark today has lost a wise queen and a great human being with a deep solicitude for our whole country"  ing a unique record of visit­ing virtually every Danish social welfare and cultural institution.  
.over  the  Her summer  
monarchy since her namesake  Poul Nyrup Rasmussen Danish prime minister  home in Graasten in southern  

Q u e e n Margrete I ruled from 1387 to 1412. 
Ingrid herself sat on the Danish throne as wife of King Frederik IX from 1947 until his death in 1972. 
Danes loved the queim mother from the moment she sailed into Copenhagen in the spring of 1935 as Frederik's bride. By 1972, when she and her daugh­ters followed on foot as a gun carriage carried Frederik's cof­fin through Copenhagen streets, the sentiment had expanded to respect and admiration. 
As a young mother during the bleak years of Nazi occupation in_ World War II, Ingrid pushed a baby carriage along Copenhagen sidewalks and used her bicycle for shopping. She also walked her daughters to school and steered them clear of some of the isolation of the royal court. 
Elegant and graceful. Ingrid was sometimes referred to as the first Danish queen to take a professional approach to the job, 

Denmark became a common gathering place for her children and grandchildren living in Denmark, Germany and Greece. 
Ingrid was credited with sort­ing out affairs in 1964 when Anne-Marie, her youngest daughter, fell in love at the age of 15 with the young King Constantine of Greece. She allowed Anne-Marie to become engaged at 16 and to marry at 
18. The couple went into exile in London after the Greek monar­chy was abolished in 1974. 
Princess Benedikte married German Prince Richard of Sayn­Wittgenstein Berleburg. 
During a banquet in January 1997 celebrating Margrethe's 25 years as Denmark's popular fig­urehead monarch, Ingrid made a very personal and moving speech. 
Turning to Margrethe and addressing her by her nick­name, she said: "Daisy, you have two wonderful sons and they will do their best for Denmark so I can safely close my eyes." 

ADVANCE YOUR CAREER. FAST. 
Start off your new career managing a SCORE! Educational Center for kids. From there, you'll be trained in sales, marketing and management so that you'll have the entrepreneurial skills to move up quickly. If you want a job where the only thing that can slow you down is your own ambitipn, visit www.scorejobs.com. 

~~\_t'.,,.? :.;. ~:.,,.--, ~ , ,., , mo
~!!,'.re$~-. Laam mor& about SCORE! at our Info S!1$sion tomorrow night at §pm at DeBartolo Hall, Room 149. ''iJ'"•,"', ",""•C 
w... ;:;. ..__: ~ti rl>J\\:,,:tt; ... ffi'~ft:! ...~®~:ii:ff,*)$t '" ,vi:c®,At)B,./lf,,®;m::~:~>ivm:,_;;'itl£°,~£~mi):t;jt:!W,:,~ :$)t.,~«~,,:~, w:,rjt;~m-~'M.;,~ lt(~ :tf,< { tt"~I'i,-:,:~,./ii'.}~~ 
RUSSIA 
Authorities call off sub recovery effort 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Russian and Norwegian divers cast a wreath Tuesday on the arctic \1vaters above the sunken nuclear subma­rine Kursk and gave up their effort to recover more bodies from the vessel, saying they had done all they could. 
The remains of only 12 of the 118 crewmen who died in the Aug. 12 disaster were brought to the surface and identified during the risky 18­day operation in the Barents Sea off Russia's northern coast. But navy officials had cautioned that most bodies would not be recovered. 
The explosions that sank the Kursk likely blew many of the crew to bits, and hurled heavy equipment and machinery around the shat­tered vessel's compartments, making it impossible for divers to safely reach parts of the sub. 
Northern Fleet spokesman Vladimir Navrotsky said the decision to end the operation was made after a conference between Russian and Norwegian officials supervis­ing the work. The divers assembled on the mother ship Regalia for a short ceremony before the vessel headed for home in Norway. 
"In their short speeches, the divers said they had done everything possible for the Kursk, and more," Navrotsky said. 
The divers had worked for the past two days to remove jagged debris from the upper deck of the submarine's fourth compartment, yet could only move 6 feet along a single passageway, and no remains were found. The divers then welded .shut the hole they had cut in the sec­tion. 
Divers decided not to search for remains in the fifth compartment because any bodies were likely to be locat­ed on a lower level. which could only be reached through a hatch too small for the divers' bulky suits, Navrotsky said. 
All the bodies were recov­ered from a rear compart­ment, farther· from the bow where the explosions are believed to have occurred. 
Navrotsky said the Russian cruiser Peter the Great and a Russian ship checking for possible radiation leaks stayed at the site. The Russian divers will remain aboard the Regalia for sever­a I more days to complete decompression necessary aftAr deep diving, he said. 
Navrotsky and officials from the Norwegian arm of Halliburton, a Dallas-based oil-services company hired by Russia to organize the recov­ery effort. said the operation had been a success. 
"We did what we set out to do," Halliburton spokesman Birger Haraldseid said. "We did something no one else has done. by cutting a hole in a submarine at the bottom of the ocean." 
After attempts to find more bodies failed, divers went back down to the submarine Tuesday to inspect the hull in preparation for a possible operation to raise the entire vessel next year, Navrotsky said. 
The divers worked in shifts around the clock more than 300 feet below the surface, with occasional pauses because of harsh weather. 
At least 23 sailors survived the initial explosion in the rear of the vessel, as indicat­ed by a letter found on the body of Lt. Dmitry Kolesnikov. 
The cause of the Kursk's sinking remains unknown. Russian officials favor a theo­ry that a collision with a for­eign submarine set off the powerful blasts. But others have said the most likely rea­son was a torpedo exploding in its tube because of a tech­nical malfunction. 
I!] ~ 
I Curious about Mass in another language?
Ii

I Miss hearing Mass enfrancais? 
;I 
~ 
i

ri! The Notre Dame French Club invites you to a
Ii
!
; 

~ FRENCH MASS
I

I ~ iI
IMass said in French by Father Driscoll I
I · I
I Thursday, November 9th I 
I; II 
9pm in the Badin Hall Chapel 
~ ~
I No knowledge of French is necessary! II Booklets of the parts of the Mass I d ~
I will be provide ffl 
Please join us! ~ 
; 
~ 

page 8 

The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 8. 2000 
EUROPEAN UNION 

Ministers support intervention in spiraling euro crisis 
Thanks to you, all sorts of everyday 1 products are being made from the paper. plastic. metal and glass that you've been recycling. 
But to keep recycllng working to help protect the environment. you need to buy those products. 
BUY RECYCLED .. 

·----=-::.~~ • 
' ­
•. 
1' t· I 
'' 4 
/, /1, 
I, ': 
l 
I 
\, I 
I 
AND SAVE: 
So look for and buy products made from recycled ma.tertals. And don't for­get to celebrate America Recycles Day on November 15th 
It would mean the world to us. For a free brochure. call HIOO-CALL-E.1>For Visit our web site at www.edl.org 
1 

FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 10TH 5:00 P.M. 

Acoustic Guitar, LIVE Singing, and Entertainment, Open Mic Karaoke Free Food, At 8 p.m. and Prizes 
decision to intervene and predicting an economic
Associated Press 

stood by ECB President Wim expansion of 3.4 percent Duisenberg. Pabius said the growth this year and 3.1 per-
BRUSSELS European finance ministers bank's cen.t in 
action

expressed support Tuesday 2001. 
should be

for the European Central "The euro has the "We cer­
judged in tainly
Bank's decision to intervene potential to rise and
the longer a
in world money markets in have 
term, rather that's becoming ever sustain­
support of their shared cur­
than looking a b I e
rency even though the curo more clear. " 
at its lack of

continued to sink. upward Speaking for the 11-nation immediate potential," 
success in Hans Eichek s a i dcurrency bloc, French 
pushing up Gennan Finance Minister Austrian
Finance Minister Laurent 
the euro. Finance
Fabius said he was confident 
"We in the Minister
continued robust economic 
euro group welcome the Karl-Heinz Grasser as he
growth at over 3 percent this presence of the ECH in the arrived for Tuesday's meet­year would eventually boost 
exchange market," Fabius ing.
the euro. 

said. "It's a continuing German Finance Minister
"There is large possibility process. We will continue to Hans Eichel said the euroof appreciation for the euro 
pay attention to the mar-would recover as the
because of the fundamentals 
kets." European economy begins toof the European economy," Fabius chaired a dinner outstrip U.S. growth.
Fabius told a news confer-
meeting of euro-zone finance "The euro has the potential
encc. " T h e ministers late to rise and that's becoming Monday and ever more clear," Eichel told
euro group 

"There is large possibility the· regular reporters.
remains 

committed ofappreciation for the monthly gath-"The growth rate in the ering of min-euro zone is stronger than it
to a strong 

euro because ofthe 
isters from all is in the dollar zone, at least because a fundamentals ofthe 15 European in the last quarter. That's an stronger European Economy." Union nations essential change." e u ro is Tuesday. Fabius stressed the need good for Despite the for vigilance to ensure creep­growth in Laurent Fabius euro's ongo-ing inflation did not under­
French Finance Minister ing shakiness, mine growth. 
e u r o 
the euro 

minis le rs But he and Sol bes said
zone and were buoyed underlining inflation, which

the world economy." 

by prospects or a stronger excludes fuel prices,
The beleaguered currency 
economy. remained under controlwas selling at 85.94 cents in Pedro Sol bes, the EU's • despite the impact of expen­
New York trading Tuesday commissioner for economic sive oil which ministers
after the ECB 's effort to buy 
and monetary affairs, said blame for driving up euro­euros Friday and Monday 
the euro-zone would meet or zone inflation to a six yearbriefly took the it above 87 even exceed growth forecasts high of 2.8 percent.
cents. 

Since its launch at $1. 17 
almost two year's ago, the 
euro has lost over a quarter 
of its value. 
Krit-

The ECB's intervention has been criticized as too little too late, partic-ularly 
Happy Entry to

since this time it acted 
alone, unlike its first foray 
into the markets in 
the bars...

September, when central banks of the United States, 
Japan, Britain and Canada Take that 
joined in defending the euro. Nevertheless the euro­
Finnigan's! 

zone ministers backed the 
A fa sanfe! 


About the Euro 

Last Sep. 22, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the central banks of United States, Japan, Britain and Canada joined to defend the euro. On Nov. 3, the ECB carried out an intervention in a renewed attempt to try and bolster the continuously sliding European currency. On Nov. 6, another intervention was attempted with no success. 
Recent euro developments Friday Nov. 3 
Wim Duisemberg 
ECB's President 

Decided Friday, Nov 3 that the ECB should take care of the interventions and has not requested international help. 
Tuesday Nov. 7 
Finance ministers, backing ECB President W. Duisenberg, agreed with the intervention decision. 
The finance ministers 
Pedro Solbes 
EU's commissioner for 
economic and monetary affairs 

Predicted that the euro-zone will have an economic 
expansion of 3.4% 
growth for this year 
and a 3.1% for 
year 2001. 
Laurent Fabius 
French Finance Minister 

Believes the ECB's intervention should be judged on a longer term and committed to a 
stronger euro, beneficial 
to the euro-zone and 
world economy. 
L. Fabius and P. Solbes on inflation 
Believe that underlying inflation 
(excluding fuel prices) is under control 
despite the impact of expensive oil. 
Inflation in EMU since Jan. 2000 

1.S J F M A M J J A S 
-----2000 _,,__,,_,,_____, ...... 

The euro has lost a quarter of its value since Jan. 1999 
Euro -US Dollar 
0.90 


JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASON 
1999 2000 
Karl-Heinz Grasser 
Austrian Finance Minister 


Believes that the euro-zone's 
economy has 
sustainable 
upward 
potential. 
Ireland 

1 Germany 
xembourg 
Austria 
• ' Italy 
Portugal 


Sources: Compiled from AP wire reports; European Central Bank, Eurostat AP 

UNITED KINGDOM 
Metropolitan 'Flying Squad' foils D01ne dia1nond heist 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Police foiled an elaborate plot to steal hundreds of millions of pounds worth of diamonds from a display at the Millennium Dome in what they said would have been the world's biggest robbery. 
Scotland Yard police headquarters said 12 peo­ple had been arrested fol­lowing the attempted heist -which would have netted some 350 million pounds ­after a police operation that took months to plan. 
With robbers disguised as workmen, Flying Squad offi­cers disguised as cleaners and a powerboat waiting on the River Thames outside as a getaway, the audacious bid had all tho makings of an action movie plot. 
The robbers' plan may even have been inspired by the latest James Bond movie "The·World is Not Enough," which featured a speedboat chase to the Dome -showpiece of year 2000 celebrations -in the opening sequence. 
But even if they had been successful the raiders would not have netted the fortune they were after -the dia­monds had been switched for replicas shortly before they struck. 
Lying in wait for the thieves after a tip-off, police allowed the gang to punch through the side of the Dorne and into the vault holding the diamonds with a heavy earth-moving vehicle. Officers directed 64 visitors already in the Dome away from the trouble. 
Police only discarded their rubbish sacks and grabbed their guns to arrest four of the suspects -all of whom are believed to be British ­after they had smashed through the glass case pro­tecting the diamonds with sledgehammers and nail­guns. 
The vault usually holds a rare display by South African diamond mining company De Beers, includ­ing a huge diamond described by experts as priceless. 
"When they entered the vault they imprisoned them­selves for us," Detective Superintendent Jon Shatford, who led the 100­man operation, told a news conference. "Had we arrest­ed them beforehand we· would have increased the threat to the public. 
"If this robbery had been carried out ... this would have been the largest rob­bery in the world." 
Shatford said Tuesday 

Botched heist at Millenium Dome 
Scotland Yard foiled an Four men were trappedin the vaults where 
attempted robbery of $500 ~· million worth of gems, JA,;i,;/~~IV:~R:" including the spectacular ,,1~€.S ·_.......-­203-carat De Beers iP Millennium Star diamond in London on Tue~f¼Y morning. 
Robbers crash bulldozer through perimeter fence _>> 
Source: Millennium Dome NMEC; compiled from AP wire reports 
was just one of 24 dates on which police had expected the robbery attempt to take place. 
Dressed in gas masks and body armour, the robbers also used smoke bombs in a vain bid to hide from police but it was unclear whether they were armed with guns. 
One of the gang was caught in the speedboat, one was arrested in a getaway car on the far side of the Thames and six more were held in raids in Kent. Police hint­ed there could be more arrests, saying the operation was still going on. 
The prize the robbers were striving for was a huge, flawless 203-carat pearshaped diamond dubbed the Millennium Star ­one of the world's largest gems. It is surrounded by 11 other unique blue diamonds. 
De Beers said they had been told about the raid and had replaced the diamonds with worthless copies late on Monday. 
"We have been working closely with the police and our own secu­rity advisers and had been noti­fied this raid was going to take place," company spokesman Andrew Lamont told Reuters. 
"On the basis of that informa­tion we switched the diamonds lit­erally hours before the raid." 
Dome Chief executive Pierre-
William Castello, Frane;:ois Duckett/AP 
Yves Gerbcau was simply relieved the operation was over without any injuries. "I had known [about the operation] for some time. I was very worried," Gerbeau said. 
Publicity is just what the belea­guered attraction badly needs. 
The Dome has been a business failure, swallowing up a billion pounds of public money. Having fallen far short of its target for visitor numbers. the buyer lined up to take it over at the end of the year then pulled out amid a finan­cial scandal. 
The government is now strug­gling to offload the celebration showcase, which many say should simply be demolished. 

Who should attend Saint Mary's Annual Career Fair? 
tiJ First year students -gather information to assist in deciding a major. tiJ Sophomores and Juniors -find out about internship opportunities. tiJ Seniors_-gain networking contacts for employment after graduation. 
This event is open to all students of Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's 
This annual career fair is co-sponsored by SMC Board of Governance and Saint Mary's College Counseling and Career Development Center HAVE YOU REGISTERED YET?..:.. http://saintmarys.jobdirect.com 
Saint Mary's College Counseling & Career Development Center Le Mans Hall 166 Notre Dame, IN 46556 PH: 219.284.4565 FAX:219.284.4524



JobDirect.com 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page JO BSERVER Wednesday, November 8, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
l' 0 Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining I !all, Notre D.mc, IN 46S56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINE$S MANAGER 
Nor-,,:n Gillespie Tim Lane 
A.~T. MANIIGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANI\GER 
Chris1inc Kr.Jy Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smi1h SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Eli7.abcrh Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Par Peters 
AD Dt:SIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROI.Lf.R• Bob Woods 
GIIA!'HICS EDITOR: Jose Cudlar 
CONTACT Us 
0Fl'!CE M"-NAGER/GENl'RAL (Nm.. ... ,., ...631-7471 FAX.... ,., ................................................. 631-6927 
ADVERTISING ., . . .. ....... .. .......... , ....... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF............................. , .......... 631-4542 MANAGING EorroR/Assr. ME.................... 631-454 l 8US!NF.SS 01'FICE.................................., .. , .. 631-5313 NEWS... , ................. , ...... ,.. ,, .................. .......631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VJF.Wl'OINT.... ......................................,, .....631-5303 observer,viewpoinr. l@nd.edu Sro RTS.. ...........................,..........................63 l-4 543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.... , .. ,. ........... , .......... ,,. ....... ,, ........ , .....631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJN'I' MARYS...... ......................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ...... .................................................63 l-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINl>'TRATORS,,,,. ... , ........63)-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visic our Web sice ac http:llobm-ver,nd.edu for daily upd.itcs of,;am pus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carroons, reviews and breaking news from chc Associaced Press. 
SURF TOI 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/music for 
minure forec.asts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives ro search for 
anicles published after 
to meet che editors and 
Augusr 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College, Editocial content, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies of che adminisuaiion ofeither insticucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content, 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department edicors, Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression of >tll opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to chc Editor muse be signed and must include contacc information. 
()_u,,tiom rtgarding Ob,m,er policit< should br direct­rd to Editor m ChiifMiftt Connolly. 


I believe it was the so very wise Mel Gibson who once said (in "Braveheart") that "every man dies but not every man really lives." And then he proceeded to really live. painting his face in bold, I'm­going-to-save-my­land blue, raising a 
Anna Barbour
big broadsword 

over his head and 
kicking some British 
butt. People don't 
Get a Life
"live" anymore 

quite like William 
Wallace did. I won­der why? 
That's my question for the day. Why the heck don't we fight the British any­more? No, not exactly, that's a separate issue. I want to know why the heck the apathy of individuals, at least in the United States, has skyrocketed; why peo­ple are everywhere so depressed, bored, tired of living or generally unimpressed by life? I'd also like to know why boys can play video games until their eyeballs fall out on Monday and be back playing more games on Wednesday. but that's also a separate issue. 
Now, I've pondered the apathy of peo­ple, and I've come to some conclusions. People are apathetic because they buy water. We buy water. We also buy sun­light, but I will discuss this in a moment. 
Why do we buy water? We buy water because we have no sense. In a two-hour time period at the 1-luddle, $30 worth of water will easily be purchased. If you do the math and analyze a lot of factors, you will come up with statistically significant figures concerning people's water buying habits. People have lost the will to get l'ree water. We have discovered that a fresh bottle of Evian is so much easier for us to obtain than standing by the old­fashioned drinking fountain with an old but faithful. bent-up water bottle. We've 
got to have new, new, new. Have we lost 
our minds? The water in South Bend, 
after its purification processes, is fine. 
Now, imagine this scenario: Next spring break you decide to go to Baja California. As you are llying over Death Valley, your plane goes down. You sur­vive but you wish you were dead because you are stranded in Death Valley. We ail know that in Death Valley any water is good water so why can't we translate this extreme love of free-flowing, Death Valley water into our normal, everyday lives? 
Because we have lost the gift of appre­ciation somewhere in the midst of fast food, Land Cruisers and 32-screen movie theaters, we have lost the ability to appreciate the freer things in life. And because we can no longer appreciate what comes freely, cheaply, naturally, how can we expect ourselves to know happiness? Nothing will ever be good enough in a world where people would rather buy bottled water than have almost the exact same water for free. 
This brings me to my second agenda ­the American need to buy sunlight. Now, what the heck is this all about? The goal of tanning is basically to burn oneself. and we are actually willing to pay for burnt skin? I'm sure Freud would have a field day with this and would probably triple his hourly rates for people with these tanning issues. Why don't you just throw your money away? Just llush it down the toilet as soon as you get it. I am assured that people have lost apprecia­tion for living when they decide to closet themselves in a tanning bed. 
All right, it is faster than natural tan­ning and much more even over the entire body surface. But it costs money. Some things ought not be bought. Love. 
Love cannot be bought. Air. Air cannot 
be bought. Or can it? There have been 
oxygen bars in Tokyo. Are we just going 
to name a price for everything? 
As soon as everything has a price tag, 
everything is in jeopardy of becoming 
unobtainable. When cars were consid­
ered unnecessary luxury items. people 
did not need them. Now cars are very 
important to everyday life for most peo­
ple. But what happens when you take 
something you already cannot live with­
out, like water, air or love, and you make 
it profitable? A person can live without a 
car but not without the essentials for 
physical and mental well-being. 
So, in a decidedly roundabout way, the 
next time you buy water or pay for sun­
light, you are contributing to your own 
unhappiness. You have chosen not to 
really live. Sometimes it is necessary to 
have discomfort, to take the longer route 
or to reuse one water bottle over and 
over so that in the end, the ability to 
appreciate the naturally free things, to 
appreciate life, can still exist. Don't lose . the ability to appreciate life. 
And for God's sake. stop buying gold 
and blue, twice-as-expensive M&Ms at 
football games, when the regular ones, 
already overpriced, taste exactly the 
same, melt-in-the-mouth-not-in-the­
hand, exactly the same. One is tempted 
to tell people who buy water, tans and 
the most expensive colored M&Ms that 
she also has some land in Florida she 
would like to sell them. 
Anna Barbour is a junior theology and 
pre-med major. Her column runs every 
other Wednesday. 
The L1iews expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
'YOU SHOULD PUT AN 
"E-" IN FRONT OF YOUR TITLE. 
) 

SCOTT ADAMS 
IT'S TOO BORING 
FRO!"\ IF ONLY 
JUST BEING THE 
NOW ON, THERE 
DIRECTOR OF 

CALL I"\£. WERE AN 
IN FOP.MATION, 

EASY WAY
THE

OPERATIONS AND 
E-OIOT. TO 
TECHNOLOGY. 

REl"\EI"\ BER
) 
THAT. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Life is a maze in which we take the wrong turning before we have learned to walk." 
Cyril Connolly author 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Wednesday, November 8, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
Open dorms to 
co-ed life 
Did you know that no two studcnt.s who claim to be Asian/Pacific-Islander, African-American, I JLc,panir/Latino or Native American on their admissions application respectively are going to be roommates with one another as a freshman? As a matter of fact, minority students are intentionally placed throughout the rnsidencc halls so that each hall is as.diverse as it can be, relative to the percentage of minority students on our cam­MSPS pus. Apparently, many Notre Dame adminis­trators feel it is important to diversify our res­idence halls so that students can shai:e with 
What's Your 
one another the unique differences that they 
Shade?
have. Sound like a good idea? 
Did you know that Notre Dame administra­tors have pondered the question of whether or not to have designated "dry" residence halls or floors for stu­dents who wish to avoid the alcohol-dominated social parties that occasionally occur during the week and fh,lquently occur during the weekend? Apparently, however, one of the reasons "dry" halls or floors have never been established is because administrators feel it is important that those non-drinkers who are responsible are among the drinkers who might not be. Babysitters and designated drivers are a good thing, don't you think? 
Did you know that it was in the early 1990s that Notre Dame started making a concerted effort to make their residence halls handicap accesstble? A student named Alex Montoya, who was born ½ith only one limb, was accepted to Notre Dame, but didn't have an accessible home. A ramp and a couple automatic doors later. St. Ed's became a place that someone like Alex could live with his classmates -and his classmates could learn about him. Enter the 1990 Individuals ½ith Disabilities Education Act, exit inclusion at Notre Dame. Do you have someone like Alex living in your hall now? 
Did you know that Sorin is going to be co-ed? 
Okay, I lied. That isn't true. That would never happen at Notre Dame. Breaking tradition is one thing, but not having parietals is another. Having men and women living together is completely different than having people of different races living with one another, right? At least with people of other races living togeth­er. the University is making a concerted effort to improve race relations on campus. If men and women were living together, what would the University get out of it? Improved gender rela­tions? Of course, there is not really any problem with gender relations at Notre Dame, is there? Men and women on campus get along fine, right? They have plenty of opportunities to inter­act, get to know one another, and bond with one another, right? They know how to act around one another and how to treat one another, don't they? · 
In classes, men and women interact together all the time. You never see all the men sitting on one side of the room, and all the_ women on the other side. And even if that does happen, you always have the dining halls. Men and women are always eating together in the dining hall, aren't they? Well, they at least say hi to one another, don't they? Okay, well they are at least talking about one another, or staring at one another, right? 
So men and women might not establish relationships in the classroom or the dining halls. But social gatherings are always taking place in the residence halls with both men and women. And of course there are always the SYR dances. I am not sure how meaningful the male-female interactions are at those partic­ular events. but at least some interaction is taking place -very often as both parties are in a drunken stupor. Come to think about it, I am not sure that SYRs reveal such a good example of the gender relations on campus. As a matter of fact, they may just expose how terrible gender relations seem to be. 
Men and women certainly do have to learn from one another, and as we all know, treated equally. Since the University finds it to their advantage to be inclusive in the residence hails with respect to people of color, non-drinkers and physically chal­lenged individuals, I think it is time that the residence halls be inclusive with respect to gender. Maybe ifwe had co-ed halls, men and women would have more substantial and significant relationships. Maybe then they would be more inclined to inter­act with one another in the classroom. Maybe then it would be a little easier for some to find a date. Maybe then people would actually go out on dates. Maybe then there would not be such disparity in residence hall regulations. Maybe then women would be treated with more respect. Maybe then it would be easier for you to meet the person you keep talking about in the dining hall. 
Do you think if I double-dared Father Malloy he might consider the whole Sorin idea? 
'What's Your Shade" is contributed by Multicultural Student Programs and Services and runs every other Wednesday. This column was written by Kevin Huie, assistant director ofMSPS. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and nol necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Applauding
Letter did not broadcast
address 'reality' 
I was extremely pleased to see In her letter in the Monday edition of The Observer. Emily The Observer's support of the Dagostino promises one thing and then delivers the oppo­expansion of WVFI Friday. As an site. With a title like "Facing Abortion's Reality," you might alumnus of both Notre Dame and 
expect either a discussion of a woman's right to privacy, an WVFI (I was a staff announcer for unborn child's right to life or even whether or not a fetus is four years), it was heartbreaking to a living human being. Instead, the letter i~ a series of sec the administration pull the plug stream-of-consciousness musings on such things as our last fall on the student body'simperfect world, God and the evil of judging the behavior of opportunity to broadcast globallyothers. It esslmtially bypasses any serious discussion of the via the Internet. In fact, I can recall abortion issue. 
the sweat and tears that were putMs. Dagostino says that "God understands that we're just into the station's futile attempts to humans and so we screw up every once in a while." 
go FM while 1 was there. 
Therrfore, she says, W<' should be allowed to "deal with the Thankfully, the Internet has sometimes unforeseeable and unexpected consequences of changed the game and instead of our actions without being condemned by our more perfect fighting to be he.ard all over South neighbors." The fact that Ms. Dagostino could make it to her Bend, technology has allowed the junior year in college believing pregnancy to be an unfore­current body to be heard across the seeable result of sex is the most compelling argument for world. What an incredible opportu­sex education that I have ever heard. 
nity! Indeed "why weren't students Beyond that, the suggestion that we should be above always given this opportunity?"
reproach in however we choose to deal with the conse­Campus radio stations are a quences of our mistakes is so overly broad a statement that tremendous way for aspiring broad­I doubt even Ms. Dagostino actually believes it. Suppose I casters to hone their communica­
"screw up" and spend all my money on beer and cigarettes. 
tion skills. Moreover, they embody Broke and hungry, I decide to deal with the consequences of our first amendment right to free­my actions by walking into a 7 -11, shooting the clerk and dom of speech. Students can dis­stealing a couple of big-bites. 
cuss their views on important cam­Would Ms. Dagostino support me in this decision to deal pus issues and play music that maywith the consequences of my actions or would she become not have otherwise been played on one of those "more perfect neighbors" and condemn my commercial radio. 
decision to shoot the clerk and rob the store? I have to think I applaud the administration's that the latter would be the case and she'd be right. As soon decision to let the "Voice of the 
as my decision to deal with the consequences of my mis­Fighting Irish" be heard globally. I takes involved trampling on the right.s of another person, 
ask that station manager Adam ­my decision ceased to be personal and rightfully became the 
Frick and his staff confirm this rul­
business of Ms. Dagostino and the rest of society. 
ing by demonstrating the profes­Likewise, the question of whether or not a woman's right sionalism, creativity and enthusi­to an abortion outweighs an unborn child's right to life is a asm that Notre Dame students are 
matter for debate. However, to offer a supposedly consid­capable of. And I hope that the ered opinion on abortion without even addressing the argu­administration's decision marks a 
ment that it destroys an innocent human life can hardly be 
turning point in allowing other pre­described as "facing abortion's reality." 
viously "silenced" voices on campus be heard. 
Emmet Day 

Notre Dame law student 
Anthony Limjuco 

Fischer Graduate Residences 
class of '98 Nov. 7, 2000 
Nov. 7, 2000 

Alcohol-free on the FlipSide 
I am responding to the Wednesday, Nov. 1, "In Focus" section on the Notre D_ame alcohol policy, mainly to the article entitled "University begins long-term study of alcohol policy." I simply want to set the record straight. 
Throughout the report, the article lays out the three-pronged plan of action that the Board of Trustees proposed in order to improve the social scene of Notre Dame. The blueprint begins with a plea for consistency in the application of du Lac, continues with a call to increase alcohol education and ends with a need for more alcohol-free events. 
In all but the final step. the article cites examples of past or present successes in these programs, yet only criticizes the existing non-alcoholic events. The final paragraph of the article states, "(Student government chief of staffi Smith pointed out that such events currently have low turnout because it is difficult 'to compete with Rally in the Alley, Lafayette.' Until Student Activities can afford bigger produc­tions, said Smith, non-alcohol events may take a back scat." This is simply not true. <,ind FlipSide proves it every weekend. 
FlipSide is a student-run organization whose sole purpose is to provide alcohol-free events on the weekends for those who choose not to party and drink, either as a lifestyle or for only one night. We are not an "anti-alcohol" group-we simply do not want any person to feel pressured to drink due to a lack of alternatives. 
Yes, we find fun things to do in South Bend, and when we cannot uncover them, we create them. 
Over the past couple of years, we have at least doubled our numbers and popularity with activi­ties such as trips to haunted houses, bowling and dances. Last weekend at our ice skating event, we set a new FlipSide record with more than 250 
attendees; however, this record will not last for long. With upcoming events such as paintball (this Friday), a Christmas shopping and sightseeing trip into Chicago (Dec. 2) and snowtubing (next semester), we could not possibly go anywhere but up! 
One of my biggest frustrations as a student is to hear other students com­plain about the lack of social options on campus, despite our attempts to rectify this situation. I realize that not every event is suited for everyone, but we strive to serve as much of the Notre 
Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross com­munities as possible. If students have any ideas on how we could help them (i.e., suggestions for events, more effective advertising, etc.) or would like to become involved with one of the fastest growing orga­
nizations on campus, they can always contact me or come to our weekly meetings at 8 p.m. on Sundays in the second floor lounge of Lafortune. We are taking alcohol-free programming from the back burner into the spotlight. Before long. Rally in the Alley will have to compete with us. 
Tim Ruggaber 
sophomore, FlipSide president Morrissey Manor Nov. 7,2000 

I
i 
I N 
cencs E T 
page 12 Wednesday, November 8, 2000 
Robots can now 

play fetch, mow lawns, score goals 
Jley kids, what's more American than getting someone else to do something for you? Getting a robot to do it instead! And if you have the pocket change to drop on robots. ihPy can dramatically increase your time on the couch, leaving you lo watch the Bears and the Vikings with a frosty beverage of your choice. 
We've all seen "The Real World," where  
our beloved whiny 20-somethings cuddle with  
a robot dog so real it will even mount your leg  Jeff Baltruzak  
"if the mood catches him right." That dog is  
Aibo, a Sharper lmagn product, and can be  
had f'or a cool $1,590. The technology that makes Aibo like a real  Short Circuits  
dog is its ability to learn and mature with  
artificial intelligence. It can even adapt to its  
surroundings with u camera in its nose.  

Included with your Aibo is a software package for "personality." It allows Aibo to express surprise and anger, among other emo­tions. There's nothing quite like an angry robot dog chasing a kid around the house because the ankle-biter threw Aibo's pink ball at it. Pink ball included. 
Although Aibo is dumb as a post at first. it can eventually learn up to 50 verbal commands like "sit," "stay," "bite" and "chase cars." Apparently. they have even programmed a-soul into this plastic puppy. It will respond to your voice, and you can even name it. Suggested names include "Waste of Money," "Rich People's Toy" and "Spot." 

No cash for Aibo? I think they still sell Chia-pets and real dogs at the mall. But seriously, this product shows the degree of commer­cialization of artificial intelligence. 
Some critics believe we should keep "intelligence" strictly human. But Aibo is hardly a threat to the human race's unique thinking capabilities, although its wagging tail could be construed as a threat to dog intelligence. The National Association of Real Uogs Against Aibo (NARUAA), led by president Lassie and treasur­er Old Yeller, have lobbied Congress to ban Aibo. 
While you may not share Lassie's passionate protesting of Aibo, you may still want a more useful robot for your money. Take Sundays, for example. Sundays are for football, not for mowing the lawn. And nobody wants to pay the neighbor's kid $20 lo do a sub-par job. 
Straight out of Europe comes the Robomower, a product that uses ultrasound technology. The Robomower is a machine aimed at the huge lazy-American market. All the owner must do is put special pegs around his or her yard. press a button, and off the Hobomower goes, avoiding birdbaths, dogs (even robot ones) and that pink flamingo Aunt llelga bought you for Christmas. 
An on-board computer directs the mower, which retails for $795. The processor interprets ultrasound signals from the pegs while mowing in a triangular pattern. These signals tell the Hobomowcr when to turn and how to avoid obstacles. It will mow any shape yard and go up and down hills easily. 
But there arc several downsides to this gift from heaven. The Hobomower will take up to three times longer to mow your lawn than it would take you, and will only run for 2 1/2 hours. That means if you start the Hobomower at halftime, you might have to leave the living room during the fourth quarter to stop il -a tough sacrifice to make. 

Still, using the Hobomowcr is better than cutting your lawn yourself. and you can justify your laziness by saying it's environ­mentally friendly, which it is. The Hobomower is virtually silent and produces enough no emissions from its battery-powered oper­
ations. 
liven the presidential candidates Al Gore and George W. Bush shared opinions about the Robomower in this frenzied election seasnn. Gore said that, like the Internet, he "invented the Hobomower." Wilen Bush was asked about his position on robot lawnmowers, he replied, "What's a lawnmower?" 

If' getting robots to mow your lawn isn't high on your agenda, how about using them to improve sports? Everyone knows soccer is boring. So those enterprising Australians have come up with something bnttcr: robot soccer. lloboCup 2000, held in Melbourne, Australia from Aug. 28 to Sept. 3, brought together robots from all over the world to test their metal in five divisions. 
The competing robots pass. shoot, and execute soccer strategy just like Manchester United. However, because these robots are. simulating soccer players, no artificial intelligence is required. 
Apparently the games have scores high enough to make it a legitimate sp1•ctator sport, unlike human soccer. Also in develop­ment are ,·obot soccer hooligans that throw computer chips at the compriting robots and trash each othPr's circuits in the stands. 
Tho moral of' the story is that you can make robots do lots of things you don't want to do, like play soccer and mow the lawn. And that's a good thing, for us, the lazy Americans. 
Tfip views expressed in Ihis column are those of lhf' author and not nPcessarily those of ThP ObsPrrJer. 

Weighing the benefits of IDp3 

File sharing services like Napster, Scour, 


By JOSEPH REISING Scene Writer 

A quiet afternoon last April turned into a day that will live in infamy. After more than a semester of mp3 downloading frenzy that drained the resources of Notre Dame's net­work. the University decided to block Napster usage. 
so 
T h e 

that the resulting 
appropri­p a n i c ate royal­s e n t 
ties can be m a n y 
paid to the students 
r e c o r d search­
ing for alternative mp3 sharing sites ·to satisfy the urge for free downloadable music. Such searching turned up sites like Scour Exchange and the friendly insect-themed iMesh as suitable substitutes for Napster. 
Over the summer, students could once again gobble up harddrive space with mp3s from Napster, to the chagrin of pouting heavy metal stars like Metallica who nearly shut down the whole system once and for all. 
Yet Napster survived Lars' battle, and stu­dents returning this semester to their beloved computers were greeted by a wel­come surprise. Napster worked again and all was right with the world. 
But unfortunately the status of free mp3 sharing has been turned on its head once again, as both Napster and Scour Exchange have been bought by corporations pledging to charge for their file sharing services. 
Here is a look at how the major file shar­ing sites stand at the moment. 
Napster (www.napster.com) 
According to Bill Kirk, assistant vice presi­dent of' Residence Life, the fortuitous reap­pearance of Napster had nothing to do with any University decision. Napster use is still currently prohibited by the University, which 
has blocked the primary port f'or download­ing. Yet Napster's inventiveness has allowed Notre Dame students to get around tho blockage and continue downloading music. 
However, the German media corporation Bertelsmann's recent purchase of' Napstcr means the service will no longer be free. 
The two companies are working to develop 
technology that will keep track of what is d O W ll • loaded 
Pholo courtesy ol savenapster.ne1 C O m Pa n Y · H a n k Barry, the chief executive of Napster, has suggested a monthly fee of' $4.95 for the Napster service, but no definite fee has been established. Neither Napster nor Bertelsmann have a 
con­crete p Ian f o r how t h e r e e b a ­s e d shar­i n g 
will work. 


gnutellaNet Uploads Downloads 
Search 
Monitor Config 
Connections: 
38 gnulellaNet 0 uploads 0 downloads 
gnutellaNet stats: 
2005 hosts 342,293 files 
5,451,950 MB 
Update 

jhippos mp~ Search 29 item{s) found... Minimum connection speed (kbps) 0 File Size s .... 
01 · Lost It -The Hippos -Heads Are Gonna Roll.mp3 02 -Wasting My Life -The Hippos -Heads Are Gonna ... 03 -Struggling -The Hippos -Heads Are Gonna Roll.mp3 04 · Pollution -The Hippos Heads ,6,re Gonna Roil. rnp3 05 -Thinking -The Hippos -Heads Are Gonna Roll.mp3 06 -Something -The Hippos -Heads Are Gonna Roll.m... 07 -Always Something There To Remind Me -The Hip.. 08 -Better Watch Yow Back -The Hippos -Heads Are... 09 -The Sand -The Hippos -Heads Are Gonna RolL mp3 10 -Paulina -The Hippos -Heads Are Gonna Roll mp3 11 -Far Behind -The Hippos -He,3ds Are Gonna Roll.m... 1 2 -All Alone -The Hippos · Heads Are Gonna Roil. mp3 13 • He Said -The Hippos -Heads Are Gonna Roll.mp3 14 -Paulina [Reprise) -The Hippos -Heads Are Gonna ... The Hippos -01 -Far Behind. mp3 Hippos -Our Lips Ji.re Sealed.mp3 The Hippos -01 -Far Behind. mp3 The Hippos -02 -Please. mp3 
. 


""He-W1rl1 
front Page 
HI wor,ydboutmy child dnd the Internetdll the tin. re's Whdt I wonydb0llt. I wony thdt 10 or 15ye4 were you when tneytookfreedom ofthe press dW4 
Napsler may still allow free file sharing, but with limited access and fewer features. 
Paying members would get unlimited access to files and additional features. Until all the questions with the new fee-based sharing system get ironed out -and there is no definite time set for that -Napster will not be a viable option for students looking for mp3s. 
Scour Exchange (www.scour.com) 
. The Scour Exchange service was very simi­lar to Napster but in addition to. mp3 trad-
Download selected files .I Stream selected files I 
2888748 . 3185499 
3678691 
4135311 
3234087 2574756 4370413 3060634 3323948 3779001 4170315 3707948 4700601 746185 4010004 1973313 4010004 3303088 
15( 15( 15( 15f 15( 15( 15( 15( 15f 15( 15. 
15( 
15f 15( 20( 15( 
15[ 

Photos counesy o1 gnutella.wego.com 

What's Inside ... 
National Senate Races Governor Result Da_y in the life of a Focus on Nader 3rd District Results poll worker 
Students volunteering Indiana Governor Race Campaign Scene from at DC Metro area Notre Dame graduate race Soutfi Bend and Chicago 
Wednesday, November 8, 2000
page 2 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 
AROUND THE NATION 
Michigan still undecided: Hepublican 
U.S. Sen. Spence Abraham and Democratic chal­lenger Debbie Stabenow spent more than $18 million -the most expt1nsive campaign in Michigan history -in a fight that drew national attention as Hepublicans fought to hold onto their majority in the U.S. Senate. Then they waited into Wednesday morning to find out the result. 
With 57 percent of precincts reporting early 
Wednesday, Abraham had 51 percent with 
1,192,702 votes and Stabenow had 48 percent 
with 1,121.429 votes. 
"Regardless of what happens, what's impor­
tant is that the people have participated and 
come to the polls. and it's wonderful to see that 
happen," Stabenow told supporters just after 
midnight. 
"What can you say? We've just got to wait until all the votes are counted," Abraham spokesman Joe Davis said. 
An exit poll, which found the race too close to call when the polls closed, showed Stabenow fared better among women. while Abraham did better among men. 
Suburban voters were almost evenly divided between the candidates. but Abraham dominat­ed rural areas and Stabenow ran strongly in cities. according tu the exit poll conducted by Voter News Service, a partnership of The Associated Press and the ABC. CBS. CNN. Fox and NBC television networks. 
Montana seniors power Republican win: In the U.S. Senate race. a majority of vot­ers over age 65 favored Hepublican Conrad Burns, despite Brian Schweitzer's campaigning for lower prescription prices and powered-Burns to a tight win. Independents and moderates favored Schweitzer but the Democrat still lost by 13,000. 
Democrat wins Jersey race: New Jersey voters rewarded multimillionaire Democrat Jon Corzine with a seat in the Senate for a campaign that sel new standards for spending by a very slim margin. 
Corzine, the former chairman of Goldman Sachs & Co.. assured himself a place in the record books by spending an estimated $65 mil­lion -most of that from his own pockets -in an effort to succeed retiring Sen. Frank Lautenberg, D-N.J. 
Franks, a four-term congressman and former state GOP chairman, accused Corzine of trying to buy the election and confidently predicted he would pull off an upset for the ages. 
But it was not to be, as Hepub!icans continued a string of futility in Senate races. The last GOP win came in 197 2, when Clifford Case won a fourth term. 
"We were outspent better than 10-to-1," Franks told supporters after calling Corzine to concede. "The assault on the airwaves, it never stopped." 
Nebraska Republican squeaks by: 
George Bush's popularity lifted Republican Don Stenberg into a tight Senate race against former Gov. Ben Nelson. but Nelson pulled out a close victory 51 lo 49 percent. 
Nelson had 51 percent of the vote, while Stenberg had 49 percent. That was a much tighter margin than the 12 percentage point lead that Nelson had in a poll released last week. 
Despite wintry weather in much or the state, Secretary of State Scott Moore stood by his pre­dictions or 71 percent of the state's 1.085,000 voters would cast ballots. 
Overwhelming voter turnout caused polling places in at least four counties -Douglas, Sarpy, Cuming and Buffalo -to run out of ballots and others faced long lines as polls closed. After long waits to get their ballots, no voters were turned away. 
Some 538,000, or nearly 50 percent. of the state's voters arc registered Bcpublican. About 392,000. or 36 percent. are DemocraL-;. Another 153,000, or about 14 percent. are registl\red as indepcndenLi;; 
Election Section Staff: Editing: Tim Logan Production: Anne Marie Mattingly Graphics: Jose Cuellar Lab Tech: Liz Lang 

NEWS ANALYSIS 

pt 

·'· ••, . .­
··•···.:·r.. ..•.•. •·,.
~,

< .. 
,,.. ,. 
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 

Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader speaks at the last of his campaign SuperRallies in Washington, 
D.C. at the MCI Center Sunday. Nader encouraged his supporters to vote for him despite claims that their votes would hand a victory to George W. Bush, saying, "A vote for Nader is a vote for Nader.'' 
Nader may spoil election for Gore 
• Green Party candidate garners 2 to 3 percent of nation's popular vote 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assisranr News Editor 
Ralph Nader's failed presidential bid Tuesday won't keep his name out of the history books. 
With the votes the Green Party nomi­nee received. he may have become the first third-party candidate to possibly cost a major-party candidate the elec­tion, according to some. 
Although Nader only received about 2 lo 3 percent of the nationwide presi­dential vote Tuesday, he took votes from Democratic nominee Vice President Al Gore in key battleground states, said Notre Dame sociology pro­works had rescinded their earlier pre­dictions about Florida, deeming the race too close to call. 
With nearly all precincts reporting, Bush appeared to have won the popu­lar vote in Florida by some 200 votes over Gore. Nader's 3 percent showing in the state represented about 95,000 
votes. 

"As far as making any strides or state­ments, that's irrele­vant. Nader's cam­paign will to little more than usher Bush into office," Fishman said. 
Polls seemed to indicate that Nader may have impeded 
"/ did not run for President Nader's campaign would hurt Gore's
to help one or the other of 
chances. Nader

the major candidates." 
appealed to sup­porters to "vote Ralph Nader their conscience," Green Party presidential candidate even in states 
a Gore win 

fessor Robert "In effect, Nader has hurt 
have voted !'or Fishman. In particu­Gore. He's handed the Gore had the lar, Nader's showing Green Party
presidency to George
in Florida may have leader not run.
Bush."

handed George W. The poll showed Bush the presidency. that only 10 per­"In effect. Nader has Robert Fishman cent would have hurt Gore. He's hand­sociology professor voted for Bush and 
Tuesday. According to a CNN exit poll 
conducted in Oregon Tuesday, 61 per­cent of Nader sup­porters would 
ed the presidency to George Bush," 
Fishman said_ 
As of 5 a.m. today. that had yet to be determined. 
The initial announcement of Bush as Prnsident-elect came around 2:20 a.m. today, shortly after the Texas governor received Florida's 25 electoral votes. Just prior to the announcement. cam­paign strategists' projections indicated that the candidate -either Bush or Gore -who won Florida would win the electicm. 
By 3:30 a.m .. major television net-
that 24 percent wouldn't have voted at all. 
Fishman isn't surprised. lie said Gore and Nader tend to attract the same types of voters -people interested in social and environmental issues. 
"Those who feel racial discrimination may have agreed with Gore's views and voted for him: or they may have voted fur Nader. It's a similar situation with the environment. and both believe that corporate power should be restrainPd." said Fishman, who not,1d that issues such as abortion and gun control may have also been blurred the line between the candidates' views. 
The difference between the men is that "Nader gathers votes to the left of Gore and also the middle-of-the-road people," Fishman said. "Nader goes to greater lengths than Gore." 
While some Democrats complained prior to the elec­tion Tuesday that 
with close races 

between Gore and Bush, the Associated Press reported today. 
"You can't spoil a system spoiled to the core," Nader told a standing-room crowd in the ballroom of the National Press Club in Washington, D.C., Tuesday. 
Nader failed Tuesday to collect the 5 percent of the national vote needed to qualify for federal campaign funds in the 2004 elections. But he may have also played a factor in races between the major-party front-runners in Colorado. Nevada and New Ilampshire -slates predicted to have been won by Bush Tuesday. 
Nader. who made it a point through­out his campaign to blast the other candidates· for their seemingly similar, moderate views. denied accusations that his candidacy might dictate the outcome of the election. 
"I did not run for president to help elect one or the other of the lwo major candidat1is." Nader told the Associated Prnss earlier Tuesday in Philadelphia. 
Material from the Associated Press was used in this report. 
Wednesday, November 8, 2000 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 page 3 
CAMPAIGN TRAIL 

Republican students promote political activity 


By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
News Editor 
WASIIINGTON 

Members of the College Republicans at the University of Maryland-College Park felt it was important to show their support for Republican presi­dential candidate George W. Hush Tuesday, though they cor­rectly believed that Democratic; candidate Al Gore would carry the state. 
Gore won the state's 10 elec­toral votes by a 17-point margin, 57-40. 
"I think it's important that we have a presence on campus," said Jessica Ryan, a 19-year old sophomore. ''f think some peo­ple are Republicans but they feel shy or they feel like it's hopeless, and even though it probably won't amount to a whole lot in the state of Maryland because we are majority Democrats, I think just letting people know we're here and that there are people on the other side lis important]." 
To that end. the university's College Republicans passed out signs, bumper stickers and liter­ature outside their Stamp Student Union. Government and politics major Ken Shepherd said be believes that although the state has traditionally voted for Democrats, the students' presence could cause others to reconsider their political affilia­tions. 
"On this campus, it's like, Democrat turf. But that's going to change. That's going to end, because we're starting to fight back," he said. "We're starting to say, 'We're going t.o get. the people of this campus to see that there's a viable alternative to the Oemoerats. We're going to get them to see how the Democratic policies hurt them and how the Republican policies help them. 
"We're sick and tired for being told that we're always going to be in the minority in this state, that Gore is going to win, that Clinton and Gore have reshaped the whole process," Shepherd continued. "Even though we might not sway this campus to vote for Bush ... people will see that we're out here, that we're fighting for their vote, and that they should pay attention to us to sec what we have to say." 
Despite expert opinion that last minute campaigning has lit­tle or no influence on the out­come of an election, 18-year-old Lindsey Garver felt that her efforts this afternoon were important. Garver explained that the purpose of her presence at the College Republicans table this afternoon was less about influencing voters' choices and more about encouraging partic­ipation in the political process. 
"It's last minute and maybe it won't make a difference in this election, but always it's just get­ting the message out. Even if somebody just reads a bumper sticker. it makes an impact. It can discourage .the opposition and it can encourage people who maybe wouldn't have voted," she said. "It's not so much as changing people's minds, but it's more like enforc­ing it, and people that were maybe a little shaky, maybe didn't have the propulsion to go out and to vote, maybe if they keep seeing it over and over again, they will." 
Maryland's student Republicans ultimately con­curred that more youth interest in campaigns and elections are needed. Junior George Waranonwitz said that turning out to vote in large numbers is the only way in which youth can solicit the attention of major candidates in future elections. 
"I think it's very important, especially among this age group, because this is the age group that has always been the least active in voting. There's just a Jot of apathy there." he said. Waranonwitz noted Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader's efforts to target youth voters and said that this is a tac­tic the major party candidates should adopt. 
Ryan emphasized that voting is a privilege which citizens must exercise proudly. 
"I think a lot of people take it for granted," she said. "So many people made sacrifices just so that we could have this opportu­nity." 
Young Democrats work to energize youth voters 

PETER RlCHARDSONfThe Observer 

Tashik Trich (right), a University of Maryland-College Park junior, explains the importance of the youth vote to fellow students Tuesday. Trich is the executive vice president of the Black Student Union. 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
News Writer 
WASHINGTON 
On campuses and in polling units across the nation Tuesday, college students and volunteers rallied to support Democrats Al Gore and Joe Lieberman and the voting process in general. 
Tashik Trich, a 20-year-old junior at the Ulliversity of Maryland-College Park, was no exception. 
Trich spent the day on her feet at the campus's student union, talking up the importance for young blacks to vote, espe­cially for Gore, and she didn't show one bit of fatigue. That's probably because the executive vice president of the campus Black Student Union is a self-proclaimed political hound. 
"I was always a person who hates to see things not getting done," she said. "I like things to develop, create new things, events programs, whatever it may be -to bring about change. You can't progress if you're not changing." 
Part of the change Trich hopes to make is a general increase in youth voting. 
Low turnout for young voters isn't good, the criminology and politics major said, because "we're the next generation. We're the ones who will be leading the nation." 
"If we do not let them [candidates] know that we have a focus, tl1at we are impor­tant, that we do have needs," she added, "then they'll never focus towards us." 
Sara, 23, who works for the federal gov­ernment and could not give her last name, is a recent graduate from Smith College in Massachusetts and worries about youth voting apathy. She was one of several vol­unteers handing out election information fliers supporting Gore in front of polling spot at Hine Junior High School in Washington Tuesday. 
As a recent graduate, she added, she feels it is vital to students that Gore win the presidency, espe­cially for his stance on education issues. It's very important, she said, for young people to make their voices heard because "voter turnout for our gen­eration is so low. We need to show the leadership that we have a voice." 
She catls herself "100 percent supportive" of Gore and Lieberman, and said more Democrats need to be in Congress. 
Democrats are more in tune with important issues, she said, especially those that affect her as a young woman. 

Rachel Kibiaer, a volun­teer in O.C. 's Gore/Lieberman head­quarters, agreed. "Ut'sl crucial for women especially," specifically those of reproduc­tive ages, to understand and agree with the Democratic Party, she added. 
In a room wallpapered with hundreds of "Gore/Lieberman 2000" posters. volun­teers from across the Washington, D.C., area went to work campaigning for Vice President Gore. 
Her job as a campaign volunteer is important, she said, because a lot of Democrats are not necessarily those who had the time or transportation to get out and vote. · 
Kibiaer, who plans to study political sci­ence at the University of Maryland next year, said she voted for Gore mainly because of his stance on contraception and financing education, both hot button issues for young voters. 
"This is their future," Jean Daniel. deputy press director for the O.C. Gore/Lieberman headquarters said of the youth vote this year. 
Daniel, who involved herself in cam­paign volunteering when she was college­age, said she is "shocked" at how few young people get out and vote. 
"This is so much fun, I can't imagine not ... investing in the future and being a part of it," Daniel said. 
The 45-year-old public affairs director has worked on campaigns at the national and local level, and said young voters should take as much advantage of political volunteerism as they can. 
"It's important for [students] to volun­teer because one day they'll be in the age group where issues like Social Security will impact them," said volunteer Cynthia. Owens, 49. 
Owens, among others, spent her election day calling people encouraging them to vote, specifically for t.he Gore/Lieberman ticket. Other volunteers focused on provid­ing transportation for those voters whom otherwise could not reach their polling places. 
Volunteering for the Democratic Party, Trich said, is one way she has been able to help energize her generation in the politi• cal process. 
"I think it's really important that we do show we are here. bring some attention to ourselves if we have to," she said. "So that they see that we care about what's going on." 
page4 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 
Breakdown of


HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Roemer wins 6th term in 3rd district 
Observer Staff Report 
Congressman Tim Roemer won a tight race for reelection Tuesday, edging Republican challenger Chris Chocola 51 percent to 48 percent. 
Hoerner. run­ning for his sixth term, prevailed early Wednesday morning when results came in from LaPorte County. The Notre Dame graduate will return to Washington for another two years. 
Hoerner survived an aggressive advertising blitz from Chocola, and visits to the district in the last two weeks by high-profile Republicans, including George W. Bush and John McCain. The challenge to Roemer was framed by some as a chance for Republicans to maintain their slim lead in the House. 
But an upset was not to he. 
A handful of supporters gathered at South Bcnd's West Side Democratic Club for a post-election victory rally, but as the night wore on and no final results came in, Roemer cancelled his appearance at the club. He is expected to make a public statement at 10:30 a.m. today. 



Chocola concedes defeat 
By ERIN PIROUTEK Senior StaffWrirer 
Remington Anksorus spent the last several months cam­paigning to elect Chris Chocola to an office he hopes to one day hold him­
self. 
"I want to be a politician when I grow up," s a i d Anksorus, 


noting he Chocola hopes to be Indiana Representative 
from District 3 someday. And the Penn High School senior isn't even old enough to vote. 
But for now, Democratic incumbent Tim Roemer will return for a sixth term in Congress. And although Anksorus is disappointed in the election results, Chocola sup­porters can look forward to supporting Anksorus in future elections. 
"I picked Chris because he basically stands for the same beliefs that I have," Anksorus said. 
The race between Chocola and Roemer was too close to call for much of the night 
Even when local media declared Roemer the winner around midnight, Chocola staffers refused to accept 
defeat, counting on the final precincts to push their candi­date into the lead. 
Finally, at 1 a.m. Chocola conceded the race. Nevertheless, he remained positive. 
"There is no losing tonight. We've got a lot more friends than we had a year ago," the challenger said. 
Many of his volunteers had no previous political experi­ence, but supported Cbocola because they believed in his message. Volunteers included the very young. 
"A lot of people have had their kids involved with the campaign 
from the "I think it opened a lot of the elec­
beginning," tion results 
people's eyes. I think 
s a i d and local
[Roemer's] next election will
Cho cola television volunteer be tough for him to win. " shots of Brenda Roemer's O'Grady, a sparsely­
Jason Mazurkiewicz 
mother of attended
Chocola headquarters director
five. She supported . Chocola in part because of his support for school voucher pro­grams. She felt that the cam­paign offered a good opportu­nity to teach her children about the political process, an experi­ence that she didn't have when she was younger. 
The future voters at the Chocola gathering learned first-hand how important a few votes can be as the race unfolded. 
Although Roemer jumped into a large early lead from St. Joseph County returns, Chocola steadily gained throughout the night, as results from the traditionally Republican Elkhart County and Kosciusko County were report­ed. 
The atmosphere grew more tense, as Chocola slowly and surely. made the race a dead heat. Even into the early hours or' the morning, support remained strong at the Republican camp at the Holiday Inn in South Bend. People crowded around big screen televisions, trying to 
glimpse 
S o u t h Bend victo­ry party. 
Supporters consider the rela­tively unknown Chocola's effort a successful challenge to the popular incumbent. 
"1 think it opened a lot of people's eyes. I think [Roemer's] next election will be tough for him to win," said Chocola headquarters director Jason Mazurkiewicz. 
Chocola did not discuss his future plans. 
\. 32 
~ 
·~­~. 

Hawaii 
4 


Sena 

Republi 
For the first time since 1920, the Republicans will retain control of both houses of Congress for four consecutive sessions. 
With all 435 House seats 34 of the 100 Senate seats at stake, the Republicans appeared to have held control of both houses at press time. 
Republicans held 223 seats compared to the Democrats 210 scats with independents holding the other two. At 4:30 a.m., the Republicans had won 215 seats while the Democrats had won 203. Both indepen­dents appeared to have retained their seats. Fifteen seats remain undecided at 

The Observer . ELECTION 2000 page 5 
Electoral Votes N.H. 4 W. Va. "··· ··:! 1 . · _Mass. 12 } J5 .·•_ t._,_*~-~ ----,--~-~--~l •· 1 r-·-·-A.I. 4.,,.,...,w,-.--~ ·..·-·-·-··~,. Conn. 8 N.J. 15 Del. 3 Md.10 D.C. 3 Democrat•) Republican()· NotO decided *At press time  

 
House ofte Representatives (2) (15)RepublicanCJ Democrat iiii Independent iiiil Undecided CJ  

ans retain Senate, House 
press time. 
The Republicans held a 54­46 advantage in the Senate and had 19 seats up for reelection. At press time, cnn.com predict­ed the Republicans would win only 15 of lhoso seats. Hillary Clinton and decease Missouri governor Mel Carnahan helped the Democrats win 18 seats. The race in Michigan was still too close to call at 5 a.m. Democrat Debbie Stabenow held 20,000 vote lead with 87 percent of all precincts report­ing over Republican incumbent Spencer Abraham. 
In addition to Missouri incumbent John Ashcroft who lost to Calahan, Republicans lost several key Senate seats. Delaware Senator William Roth, the former chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, lost to Democratic governor Tom Carter. Internet million­aire Maria Cantwell defeated Washington Senator Slade Gorton and Minnesota Senator Rod Grams fell to Mark Dayton. 
The Republicans, however struck back with wins in Nevada and Virginia. Incumbent Democrat Charles Robb lost to former governor George Allen in Virginia while Republican John Ensign cap­tured the empty former­Democrat seat in Nevada. 
In the House, Republicans captured open Democratic seats in Pennsylvania, New York, Missouri and Virginia and barely retained seats in Pensylvania, Kentucky, Indiana and North Carolina. 

The narrow victories and tiny majority held by the Republicans could make parti­san battles even worse in the next two years. 
"We will have to reach across the aisle and do things on a bipartisan basis," Republican House Speaker Dennis Hastert said on CNN. Hastert recap­tured his seat in Illinois with 7 4 percent of the popular vote. 
SENATE 

Hillary Rodham Clinton triumphed in her historic quest for the U.S. Senate, defeating homegrown GOP Rep. Rick Lazio on Tuesday to become the only first lady ever elected to public office. Just before 11 
p.m. Tuesday, with 51 percent of precincts counted, Clinton had 1,698,421 votes, or 54 percent; Lazio had 1,423,562 votes, or 45 percent. "You came out and sa.id that issues and ideals matter," Clinton told a cheering crowd minutes later. In the wings, her husband, the president, watched and grinned. "I am profoundly grateful to all of you for giving me the chance to serve you," she said. "I will do everything I can to be worthy of your faith and trust and to honor the powerful example of Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan." The campaign, which pitted her against a powerhouse New York City mayor and then a lesser-known Republican congressman, was the longest and costliest race in the state's history. It saw issues of character, place of birth, marital fidelity, and campaign finance collide with discussion of education, Social Security and the state's economy. But Clinton herself -her activism, her issues, her pres­ident husband and her love-it-or-hate-it personality -proved to be the main issue in the campaign against the Long Island congressman to replace retiring Democrat Moynihan. "She overcame the skeptics, and worked and worked and won," Sen. Charles Schumer, O-N.Y., said. 


John 
Ashcroft (R) 
49% 

Missourians elected a deceased to the Senate on Tuesday, choosing Gov. Mel Carnahan -who perished three weeks ago in a plane crash -over Republican incumbent John Ashcroft. Carnahan's widow had agreed to take her husband's place. With 84 percent of precincts reporting early Wednesday, Carnahan had 1,075,872 votes, or 50 percent. Ashcroft, a Republican, had 1,039,409, or 49 percent. The plane crash that killed Carnahan, his son and an aide Oct. 16 turned the nationally watched con­test against Republican Sen. John Ashcroft from notoriously bitter to decidedJy bizarre. Carnahan died too late to revise the ballot. No one had ever posthumously won election to the Senate, though voters on at least three occasions sent deceased candidates to the House. Gov. Roger Wilson, who took office after Camahan's death, said he would appoint Carnahan's 66-year-old widow, Jean, to a two-year term should Ashcroft lose. Mrs. Carnahan became the implicit challenger when she declared herself strong enough to accept appointment. Some Republicans had threatened a court challenge if that happened. Early Wednesday, as her husband pulled ahead, she addressed hundreds of St. Louis-area support­ers by phone from her home in Rolla."You have stayed the course; you have kept the faith; you have carried our hopes and dreams," she said. 
~ 

• • ' 

George lnta 
,Charles Allen ( Robb (D) 
~%----~~~.;:____;__________ ~ ~%
~ 

Republican George Allen became the first Senate candidate to unseat an incumbent with his victory over Democrat Charles Robb in a close Virginia Senate race. Allen, the former Virginia governor, had a 52 to 48 percent lead with almost all the precincts reporting. Robb's loss ended more than 20 years of public service for a man who was first elected to statewide office in 1977. Robb was first elected to the Senate in 1988. Before his election to federal office, he served as governor and lieutenant governor Allen's upset victory helped the Republicans hold onto their slim majority in the Senate." Tonight, my friends, we begin moving for­ward and it sure is sweet," Allen told the hundreds at his election cele­bration at the Richmond Marriott. "This is your Senate seat and I will be a senator for all the people of Virginia." The turnout in Virginia was high and lines were reported at many polls. There also were some problems at the polls as prospective voters who thought they had registered at Department of Motor Vehicles offices found out they weren't entitled to vote. The Democratic Party of Virginia was gathering complaints. Craig 
K. Bieber, executive director of the state Democratic Party, said the General Assembly would have to deal with the unexpected fallout from the motor voter legislation. 
-compiled from The Observer's wire services 
page 6 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 Wednesday, November 8, 2000 
INDIANA GOVERNOR 

Incumbent O'Bannon eludes GOPs McIntosh 
. Democrat runs away with 13­point victory 
By LAURA ROMPF 
and MAUREEN SMITHE 
As,iscant News Edi tors 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Coming as no surprise to most Indiana voters, Democrat Frank O'Bannon was reelected as governor for a second term, beating Hepublican David McIntosh handily -57 to 42 percent. 
The outcome was evident 
early because O'Bannon led 
McIntosh by double-digits for 
much of the campaign season. 
Some Indiana voters waited in lines for up to 90 minutes Tuesday, giving this year's elec­tion one of thu highest turnouts in recent history. 
At a celebratory party in Indianapolis, 0'13annon thanked his many supporters from across the state. 
"I want to give thanks to all of you who believed we put Hoosier families first, and we will continue to put Hoosier families first," O'Bannon said. "Jt's been a remarkable, remarkable year, and we 're glad to come to a victory on this night." 
O'Bannon cited his improve­ments over the past four years. including adding 500 police to the streets and a $1.5 billion tax cut. He also said he intends to further improve education. 
"We look at the next four years to make sure the commu­Notre Dame alum Joe Kernan nity college system is up in the said his reelection signifies state of Indiana," O'Bannon Indiana's movement in the right said. "There are things that direction. need to be done in the state of "The state of Indiana spoke Indiana. We've got a lot more to loudly, clearly. wisely and deci­do.... We look forward to con­sively today in reelecting Frank tinued progress here." O'Hannon as our governor. He 


From his political headquar­has lead our state for four years ters in Muncie, Ind .. McIntosh with great distinction and our 
delivered his  state  today  
concession s p c e c h around 7:50  "/ plan to be forever dedicated to make sure  has never b e e n stronger by  
p  m  Indiana's best days are  every objec­ 
Tuesday. McIntosh,  here to come. "  tive measure­ment you can  
who elected  was to.  Frank O'Bannon  imagine," Kernan said.  
Congress in  Indiana Governor  D  a  v  i  d  

1 9 9 4 , thanked spe­cific supporters, including his campaign manager, campaign chairperson, finance chairper­son, volunteers and staff. 
"l want to thank everyone here, everyone in this team ... You are all winners because you supported the cause," McIntosh said. 
During the speech, McIntosh also highlighted the strong points of his political career, including protecting social secu­rity, tax relief for working fami­lies and increased jobs in Indiana. 
"I plan to be forever dedicat­ed to make sure Indiana's best days are here to come," McIntosh said. "I absolutely believe Indiana has a specific destiny ... It can be a great place to live, raise a family and own a home." 
Lieutenant governor and 

Indiana 
Johnson, who 

lost his bid to unseat five-term Republican Senator Dick Lugar, expressed his support for O'Bannon at the post-election party in Indianapolis. 
"Thank Cod he is going to be our governor for the next four years," Johnson said in his con­cession speech. "Many of us [Democrats] had conceded that the other side had so much more money to spend on the races this year." 
Kernan and O'Bannon cited areas where the will focus over the next four years, including education, economic develop­ment and public safety. 
O'Bannon has had a long political career. Prior to his position as governor, O'Bannon served eight years as the lieu­tenant governor and 18 years as a part-time legislator in the Indiana Senate. 

David McIntosh (R) 
42% 

. O'Bannon camp cheers Govenor's re-election 
By LAURA ROMPF 
and MAUREEN SMITHE 
Assi>tanr News Editors 
INDIANAPOLIS 

The day the music died for Indiana gubernatorial challenger David McIntosh, the band played long into the night to celebrate Frank O'Bannon's reelection. 
Red, white and blue balloons floated through the air at the Indiana Convention Center in Indianapolis, while more than a dozen television news announc­ers reported to voters at home. 
The celebration, sponsored by the state Democratic Party, attracted supporters from all over the state. 
"I'm very excited for tonight. This party will be wild, absolutely wild," said Lavon Siaeoi, of Indianapolis. Siaeoi said she attended the party to support her daughter who worked on O'Bannon's campaign. 
"Tonight is definitely going to be a happy celebration and very long lasting," said Jayelynn Willman, who worked for the campaign at phone banks. "l like him better because of his views on the issues." 
The party included supporters of all ages. Even 1-year-old James Welch Ill cheerfully celebrated O'Bannon's victory. In a small green shirt decorated with O'Bannon campaign stickers, James danced to the band's songs and ate popcorn. 
Because the race was not close, many O'Bannon supporters began celebrating before the polls closed. The party in Indianapolis began at 5 p.m., but polls remained open until 6 p.m. 
"I got up this morning and had some pre-game jitters, as you do before any big game," said lieu­tenant governor Joe Kernan. "But by two o'clock this afternoon I knew this thing was going to be alright." 
Other polls didn't want to cele­brate too early. 
"I am a very cautious person because I never want to be embarrassed by a surprise. Any celebration would be premature in an election season as tight as this one, but I still felt confident O'Bannon would win," said William Cordell, who worked on the U.S. Senate campaign for Democrat David Johnson. 
Since a law passed in Indiana in 1972 allowing governors to work for two consecutive terms, an incumbent has .never lost. O'Bannon continues that legacy. 
"What I admire most about Governor O'Bannon is his integri­ty. What he says is what you get. There are no political smoke screens," Cordell said. 
''I think he is definitely the best man for the job. He has the expe­rience to do it, he's been gover­nor for four years, and I just don't think the other guy wa'l ready for the job,'; Siaeoi said. 
The excitement of the evening even served to ignite the enthusi­asm of Running With Scissors, the band. 
"This is very cool,'' said lead gui­tarist and vocalist Mark Sullivan. "We get to play in an awesome room with great acoustics, to a big crowd." 
Both said they supported Governor O'Bannon for reelec­tion, citing his experience and character. 
"llc's been leading Indiana as governor and lieutenant gover­nor," Sullivan said. "It's been the same group in oflice and we defi­nitely want four more years." 
When O'Bannon stepped up to the podium at 9 p.m., he thanked his many supporters in Indianapolis and throughout the state. 
"I want to thank all the people in Indiana who said we were mov­ing in the right direction," said the once and future governor. 
As O'Bannon f'inished his speech, "These Are The Days" by 10,000 Maniacs blasted over loud speakers. Young James cheered as loudly as the next supporter ­although it was a bit harder to clap with a bottle full of milk in hL'> hands. 
INDIANA HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Ehrhard fails to win state house seat by 30 percent 
school. knock off Bauer. influenced his decision. not only politically strategic, but they
By KIFLIN TURNER 

"Me and my law school buddies decid­"I became very close the Republican have been the most important and mem­
News Wrircr 

ed to go for it -organized a primary community in St. Joseph's County," he orable aspects of Ehrhard's campaign. campaign and mapped out everything said. "They had all along wanted me to "The best part is that I've been able to... After graduating from Notre Dame Law up until election day and besides study­take on Pat Bauer, one because I'm very actually get involved in politics to a level School in May, James Ehrhard made a ing for the bar this summer, the cam­young and very energetic and I had built that most people would never get a 
run to represent South Bend in the 

paign was my absolute a lot of political ties." chance to, from all aspects of fund rais­Indiana House of Representatives. 
priority," he said. The race against ing, to grassroots, to the speeches and 
Ehrhard, the 

Ehrhard said Notre 'The best part is that I've Bauer has been an the debates." 
Hepublican nominee, 

Dame was a source of been able to actually get unbelievable experi­Ehrhard's campaign focused on taking
lost Tuesday, 65 per­encouragement in the ence, according to the on a more personal and fair approach

cent to 35 percent. to 
involved in politics to a
beginnings of his cam­young candidate. involving the people of the county. Going 
Democratic incum­level that most people
paign. "I loved it,'' he said. door-to-door and pursuing a grassrootsbent Pat Bauer in the "When I won the pri­never get a chance to ... " "It's been one of the campaign is the key to victory, he said. 
race for the District mary, I was still a law key experiences of my Ehrhard's stated that his outreach to 

6 seat. But before 

student. and my sup­life, especially at the the St. Joseph community as being
James Ehrhard
the results came in. 

port from the Notre state [representative] rewarding and supportive.
he reflected on the Ehrhard Indiana house candidate
Dame community has level, you get to touch "Being an opponirnt makes me a public
past few months of 


been overwhelming," upon campaign fund figure by nature, and people have rallied planning and campaigning for office. 
he said. raising to media advertising and an around my race to take out Pat, and Ehrhard had been planning to run for Ehrhard became involved with local extensive door to door campaign." they actually want to hear what I have office, wiLh the help of a few fellow Republicans, and this network, as well Taking the initiative to go out into the to say, and I have found that to be vuryclassmates, since his third year of law as what he saw as an opportunity to neighborhood1 and the communities is enjoyable and encouraging." 
The Observer . ELECTION 2000 page 7 
BEHIND THE SCENES 

Poll workers keep elections running smoothly 
By KERRY SMITH 
News Writer 
The imposing metal box stood cloaked in a dingy off­w hite drape as a Portage Township resident cast his vote using the machine ballot during Tuesday's election. 
Poll worker Martha Choitz looked on from her Precinct 1 post at a table in the Joyce Center. As she heard the crank of a vote being cast, she grinned broadly. 
"When they decide to get rid of that thing, I want to buy il and put it in my base­ment." Choitz said. "It's so old, it reminds me of my childhood." 
Almost as ·old as the machine ballot is Choitz's affinity for involving herself in the community, particular_­ly around election time. A long time public activist, Choitz is in her clement help­ing voters cast their ballots in a precinct made up of stu­dents often bewildered by· Indiana's particular voting regulations. 
"It's always confusing to vote here," Choitz said. "The 

records can't be kept up precincts were or where their· because students are always designated ones were located. moving and changing "A lot of the people coming addresses. We're here to help in here today have been con­them and thank heaven they fused." inspector Diane have been coming in and ask­Freeland said. "One, there ing us questions. That's why weren't many advertisements
. 

w  e  r  e  a  b  o u  t  
here." If voters  "We want everyone to vote.  where vote  tu and  
are  the  That's why we try our  two,  some  
lifeblood of a democra­cy, then poll work­ darndest to straighten everyone's situation out right here. "  of the stu­dents' vot­ing places w e r e  
ers  are  the  moved."  
arteries  Martha Choitz  Despite  
that keep the election  Joyce Center precinct worker  the confu­sion inher­ 
flowing  ent in stu­ 

smoothly. Without the help of dent balloting, Choitz and the the poll workers stationed in Precinct 1 staff patiently the Joyce Center. many Notre worked through each prob­Dame students would have­lem. been out of luck aL the voting "We want everyone to vote," booth. she said. ''That's why we try 
Students poured in with our darndest to straighten questions about casting their everyone's situation out right votes; some came armed with here." absentee ballots unsure if Yet despite their attempts, they could still be counted. the poll workers were not others unaware of the differ­able to remedy all students' ences between Indiana and voting needs and some that their home states' registra­tried to vote were unable to tion and voting rules, while do so because of improper others had no idea what registration or voting proce­dures. 
Notre Dame students were not the only ones blocked from the voting booth. Less than a mile away from the Joyce Center, 17-year old Saint Joseph High School junior Mara McDonald also was unable to cast a ballot Tuesday. 
But that did not stop her from participating in the elec­tions as a pollworker in South Bend's fourth district. 
In a small high school weight room, with exercise equipment pressed against the walls to make room for a check-in station and voting booth, McDonald worked alongside other poll workers to keep the fluctuating line of voters moving. 
Wedged between a leg press and sets of dumbbells, McDonald sat checking off names as she gained a first­hand taste of the electoral process. 
"A lot of people have come already -the turnout has been good," McDonald said as Indiana's election day moved into its third hour. "We've had some confusion with peo­ple showing up at the wrong 
precincts, but everyone has been working hard and they've been working it out." 
In the end, McDonald's hard work will pay off fur state leg­islature candidate Michael Dvorak. 
'Tm doing this because he's a family friend," McDonald said, pointing tu two separate lists spread on the table on front of her. "My job is to mark off the voters on one list and then circle the number that's been assigned to them on this one. Then every cou­ple of hours someone [from Dvorak's campaign] will come and pick up the list from me. I'm not sure what they use it for, but l guess it helps." 
Not yet old enough to vote, McDonald has just begun to learn the ins and outs of elec­tion day strategy and the roll poll workers play in it. 
While just up the road, Choitz added one more elec­tion to her list. And together they, along with thousands of other poll workers across the country, work tirelessly each year to assure voters are able tu caste their ballots and elections run as smoothly as possible. 
CAMPUS CONNECTION 

College Republicans, Democrats support Bush, Gore 
. Republicans volunteer at headquarters, host election return watch 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame College Republicans finished a season of campaigning aimed at mobilizing students and South Bend voters on Election Day. 
'Tm proud that we helped to increase voter awareness on campus," said Trip Foley, College Republicans treasurer and campus representative for the Bush campaign. 
Club members spent Election Night watching the returns in three different places. Some gathered in Sorin Hall and others went to the Holiday Inn down­town with volunteers from the Chris Chocola congressional campaign. 
Others joined College Democrats and student government for an election watch in LaFortune Student Center. This was the last of the 2000 election season's many bipartisan voter awareness events. 
While the bipartisan events were suc­cessful. some antagonism naturally remained during election season, according to GeolT Heiple. 
"!Disagreement! is typical of both of our parties. You've got to put on a game face," he said. 
Besides co-sponsoring events, the College Republicans promoted local Republican candidates by volunteering at their headquarters. 
"A lot of people have been amazed just how grassroots it is," said John Sadowski, a campus coordinator for the Chocola campaign. 
During the election, the club has grown and the new members have become involved in the 2000 campaigns, accord­ing to Ileiple. 
"We've had eager people who've been coming out to do whatever they can," he said. 
Despite the campus-wide effort by the College Republicans along with others to increase student voter registration, they did face some lack of interest from stu­dents. 

Foley said that even apathetic students should have exercised their right to vote. 
"Students don't have to know what they think or what political party or can­didates they support," he said. "But it is important that they educate themselves." 

. Democrats work at elect candidate Tim Roemer to his sixth 
Roemer phone bank to increase local turnout 
By LIZ ZANONI 
News Writer 

Notre Dame College Democrats pulled together for a final effort Tuesday to re-term in the 3rd District Congressional race against Republican challenger Chris Chocola. 
It began at 9 a.m. as a group of Notre Dame students made their way to Congressman Roemer's headquarters in downto\'in South Bend. Students were put to work at the phone bank, calling local Democrats and reminding them to vote. 
Junior Kristin Corcoran, who worked 
on one phone bank, said she was excited 
to watch volunteers immersed in the 
election process. 
"Volunteers are important to every 
election," she said: 
Roemer's campaign is only one of the 
many activities the Notre Dame 
Democrats have sponsored or participat­
ed in since the beginning of the school 
year in August. 
In a joint effort with the College 
Republicans, the College Democrats 
were involved in a Voter Awareness 
Drive before the election. In 13 residence 
halls on campus, a group of students 
from each party addressed questions and 
concerns over campaign issues and voter 
registration. 

The purpose was to answer questions 
for the undecided and provide material on absentee ballot registration, said sophomore Lisa Demidovich, Vice 
.,.

President of the College Democrats. 
Vice presidential candidate Senator Joseph Lieberman's speech at Washington Hall on Oct. 25 was a momentous event on campus for the College Democrat:.. Many worked with his advance. team by helping with the National Press Corps and the motorcade. 
"We were surprised how much the. Gore and Lieberman staff depend on vol­·unteers in each place they go," Stuffings said. 
They have also reached off campus. and o·ut of state. Sophomore Clayton Swope and several other students trav­eled to Michigan last Saturday to go door­to-door for Presidential candidate Al Gore. 

Members of the Notre Dame College Democrats (above) and College Republicans (left) gathered for election watches in Tuesday's race. The election was too close to call. 
. 

photos by 
ERNESTO LACAYO 
.. 
page 8 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 Wednesday, November 8, 2000 
CAMPAIGN CLOSE TO HOME 


America Speaks* 
. 47,551,403 votes 
. 47,824,378 votes 
. 
29 states carrie.d . ·19 states carried 

Bush Gore 

November 7, 2000 
"'at press time 

All of the three most publicized tickets seeking the White House visited the South Bend or Chicago area during their campaigns. 
. 
Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader addresses citizens at the University of Chicago-Illinois on Oct. 11 (left). 

. 
Connecticut Senator Joseph Lieberman, running for Vice President on the Democratic ticket with Al Gore, discusses faith and values at Washington Hall Oct. 25 (below). 

. 
Texas governor and Republican presidential candidate George W. Bush rallies a crowd at the Michiana Regional Airport after a visit to Lake Michigan College Oct. 28 (bottom). 


. 

photos by 
CHRIS PEARSALL, LIZ LANG and TIM LOGAN 


I N 
cen 
E T 
Wednesday, November 8, 2000 page 13 
ing sites: cost, speed, accessibility separate coD1petitors 
esh, Gnutella, Aimster and Freenet fight to keep music free for eager fans 
ing. it also allowed users to download movies and other video files. These services led to a lawsuit filed by the Motion Picture Association. In October Scour.com filed for bankruptcy. 
Just one day after Napster's deal with Bertetsmann. Listen.com, a music search sil.e partially sponsored by all five major record com­pan.ics, bought out Scour.com and its file sharing technology. The deal prompted Scour to shut down its service, and when it finally becomes available again, it will no longer be a free ser­vice. 
!Mesh (www.imesh.com) 
How can anyone sue a free file sharing site when its icon is a cute little ladybug? That may be what the creators of iMesh were thinking when designing the site. If so. their theory has worked so far. Of' the three major file sharing services con­nected by a central server, iMesh is the only one currently working. 
While i~esh docs not boast as many usc·rs as either Napster or Scour, and thus offers less files to search from. it is still very easy to install and use, working just as well as either Napster or Scour. The 
iMesh 


appli­cation a ls o 
e roJec 
e Internet~ 
allows t h e user t 0

from now, she will come to me ilndsay "DilddY, where 
rom the lnternetr ~-Mike Godwin 
search f o r
Photo courtesy of freenet.sourcelorge.net V i d ­eos, images, software and documents. Probably the most useful feature of iMesh is that once an item is added to the download list, it remains there until it is completely downloaded. 

r 
This is particu­1 a r I y helpful when you 
o n l y manage to down­load a part of the song. IM es h keeps on search­ing for the user 
to com­p l e t e t h e son g. 

Nullsoft, the creator of Winamp. The original ver­sion was scrapped, however, because AOL, Nullsoft's parent company, declared it an "unautho­rized freelance project." 
The open source code was still made available for testing to a few hundred users, and thus the tech­nology spread through many different clones, which are still available from different sites. 
The one disadvantage to using Gnutella is that it is nowhere near as user friendly as Napster or iMesh. In order to get the most out of it. you need to read all the various tutorials and FAQs available. Even then it may take a lot of trial and error before you can begin to dovrnload on a consistent basis. 
Despite this difficulty and the Jack of cute insect icons. Gnutella still promises to be the most versa­tile and legally-resistant file sharing service in the future. 
And for anyone with an interest in computers, the time spent trying to choose between the various Gnutella clones and learning how to use them can be an adventure. 
Aimster (www.aimster.com) 
Aimster is actuallv listed as one of the clones off the gnutella.wego.com site. According to the Web · site, this applica­t i o n C O m ­b i n e s today's 
t W. 0 
m o s t 
ne mmmane seaPcn Toon powerful 
cour Exchange is your tool to search, In ternet crwnload, and share multimedia files 
applica­
rom the web and our rapidly 

tions:
rowing community . •>,,;ifu&,;,

f users learn more >,, A@#.1,,11,,~,,w, f i I e 
. DOWNLOA sharing 
a n d
....;,. 

,fNOWH 
instant
SC . UREXCHRnue·· Q~n{;,~

····"·~•-,..;,.•· 
messen­
ging. 
and often finishes the download unexpectedly. 
!Mesh contains many other features, like a "media manager" which allows you to preview all of your new files without having to open. install or run a separate player. This feature is confusing to operate, however. and may not be particularly use­
ful. 
!Mesh also allows you to chat with other users -a new feature com­mon to Napster and Scour as well. In the absence of Napster and Scour, iMesh is the best option for finding mp3s, even though it may take a lit~ tie more patience to find obscure songs. Gnutella (gnutella.wego.com or www.gnutelliums.com.) 
Since the Napster blockage on campus, Gnutella has grown in pop­ularity. Unlike Napster. Scour or iMesh. Gnutella has no central serv• er. Each computer connects individ­ually to other computers. forming a large network. 
Gnutella therefore Jacks a central database where a list of all the songs and files available for transfer arc stored. No central server means Gnutella software is a lot harder to block and according to the gnutel• lanews.com Web site, allows it to withstand a band of hungry lawyers. 
Gnutella was originally created by 

Photo courtesy of scour.com T h e 
basic idea is that Aimster allows you to trade files with people on your buddy list. However, your buddies must also be running Aimster and AOL at the same time, and have the file you want. 
Since AOL's Instant Messenger already contains a 
iMesh 
SEARCH 
NEW REL 

Versic.-i 2 Beta is rcw o.t ard avai Ia~ e fa yooto c:b'wTioad. 
There are many r,ew :ard exciti~feati.res si.xh as Meda Manager, Om mo::le, Searcha~e H!lp, \fl.mt's Lp panel ard 
mu::h, mi.xh mcre ... 
file-transfer sys­tem. the Aimster service seems somewhat irrele­vant. 
Also, Aimster's recent develop­ment has results ed in many minor problems that still need to be worked out. 
Still, in the absence of Scour and Napster. Aimster may prove to be a valuable tool in sharing files. 
FreeNet 
(freenet.source­forge.net) 
If you thought 
Photos courtesy of aimster.com 

Gnutella was complicated, you may want to steer clear of FreeNet. This application works along the same lines as Gnutella -it has no centralized server, making it hard to trace information transfers. However. FreeNet claims to be more efficient than Gnutella. 
Despite this, FreeNet's download instructions are complicated and a bit intimidating. 
Yet in the post-Scour and Napster environment, Freenet may become a legitimate option, provided one has the patience to figure out how to run it and is not intimidated by computer jargon. 
With all the options out there, this is just a glimpse of the various file sharing resources avail­able. There is no definite date for Napster or Scour services to begin again. There is also no word on how much they will cost or how they will operate. 
In the meantime iMesh remains the easiest and most reliable source for getting mp3s, even though its library of files is not as extensive as Napster's was. 
For the more adventurous and technologically­adept. Gnutella and Freenet are two other viable options whose technology is likely to become more widespread and popular in the future. 
Photo courtesy ol ,mesh.com 
-~-------­

8-ball 
continued from page 24 
defense in their practices lead­ing up to the exhibition contest. 
"We've focused a loL on defense in the preseason," Carroll said. "Lasl year, we played a lot of zone and this year we arc going to push out and play a lot of man-to-man. We've been working on our help on our backside defense," 
The Irish will also look to their bench for some quality minutes. Sophomores Jere Macura and Ivan Kartelo saw extensive playing time last sea­son and were key contributors. 

... Brey will also get his first glimpse of freshman point guard Torrian Jones and center Tom Timmermans. "The great teams in college basketball all have eight, nine or 10 guys that can play," Carroll said. "We are a lot deeper than we were last year and that will help as the season progresses." 

NFL 

Aikman's health causes concern 
Associated Pre.. 
IHVING, Texas 
After giving Troy Aikman a new offense and a new star receiver, Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones came into this season figuring his quar­terback would play anywhere from three lo six more years. 
Now, Jones wonders whether Aikman will be back next year. 
"We all want to be very real­istic," Jones said Tuesday. "The best way to express our feelings now is that we're con­cerned." 
Aikman's back is the latest reason for concern. lie received a second round of pain-relieving injections Monday in hopes of easing the lower left side of his back. The gains made by the first series of shots were lost when he was slammed to the turf by Jacksonville's Tony Brackens. 
Aikman was going to try 

practicing Wednesday in hopes that he can play Sunday against Cincinnati. Whenever he returns, there's the fear that another big hit will again trigger the pain. He must go 10 days between shots and can have no more than three rounds in one year. 
Should Aikman, who turns 34 in two weeks, decide to retire after this season, the already salary-cap-strapped Cowboys would be in seriously bad shape. 
NFL 

Pittsburgh struggles with poor offense 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGII 
The Pittsburgh Steelers are closing in on a defensive record set by the famed Steel Curtain defense, yet it almost seems overshadowed by the griping and complain­ing about their offense. 
Those complaints made it to the coach's office shortly after the Steelers' 9-7 loss at AFC Central leadc r Tennessee on Sunday, and Bill Cowher wants to prevent them from reaching his play­er's ears. 
That's why Cowher sug­gested his players simply tune out the media and fan criticism of an offense that has scored only four touch­downs in each of its last four games. And not lose sight that the defense is playing as well as any in the· NFL. 
The Steelers' streak of 20 consecutive quarters without allowing a touchdown is the NFL's longest since the 1976 Steelers had a team-record 22-quarter streak. That team shut out five of its final nine opponents. 
These Steelers haven't allowed a touchdown since Jacksonville's meaningless score with nine seconds left in a 24-13 Steelers victory on Oct. 1. 
"I told our football team that every team in this league, or most of them. 

have shortcomings right now," Cowher said Tuesday. "The teams that can handle that and recognize that and not dwell on it arc the teams that will separate them­selves. 
"The thing you try to do is strengthen your weakness, but, at the same time, don't weaken the strength." 
So, even though Kordell Stewart was only 7-ol'-22 for 112 yards and an intercep­tion Sunday. Cowher said the Steelers (5-4) must throw the ball often -only more effectively -t.o pre­vent defenses from loading up against the run. 
Stewart will start Sunday against Philadelphia (6-4). his first start in Three Hivers Stadium in more than 11 months, or since he was pulled from a 27-20 loss to Cincinnati on Nov. 28, 1999. 
"If you don't strengthen the weakness, you put too much burden on what you're doing well," Cowher said. "We've got to try to throw the football and make people honor that, to allow the run­ning game to continue to be the success it is." 
Obviously, the Steelers' strength is a defense that has allowed 93 points in nine games, including six field goals in five games. They are the only NFL team to allow fewer than 100 points. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND TREK BIKE in parking lot one week ago. CALL MATT 4-4B94. 
LOST on campus at Stanford game 1 1 /2 inch thick gold bracelet REWARD call Carol at 312·946· 1800. 
FOUND: lronman Triathlon watch ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS. BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219 289-8048. 
Need 1 Ticket ForNDv BC 247-0965 
I NEED TWO BC TICKETS! MY PARENTS ARE COMING! WILL PAY! CALL 284-4334' WE'LL TALK! 

FOR RENT 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:rnmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595 
GREAT APT. FOR RENT FOR BC WEEKEND! Turtle Creek Apt. for rent BC week­end, Sleeps 4 comfortably, parking for one car, contact adipaola@nd.edu 
WANTED 

International publication based in Granger has opening for assistant editor. Writing and grammar skills necessary. Knowledge of motor-sports a bonus. For more informa­tion call 277-0033. 
Locally based racing publication in need of web design to help to improve and maintain present sites. Strong graphic design ability a must For more info, call 277-0033. 
CAR FOR SALE: 1991 Pontiac Lemas LE, 20, Mileage: 77,000 Phone 273-6056; email erdem.1@nd edu 
PHONE CARDS 
$20 1558 MIN. 
CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805 
'95 Honda Civic EX, red, moonroof, 5 spd. 52k mi., $8950, call 1-6953 COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 300,000 + private sector scholar­ships available for undergraduate and graduate students at accredit­ed colleges in the USA regardless of their GPA, finances, age or citi­zenship. Write or call for FREE information and application. Scholarship Database Service P.O. Box432 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556-0432 BarnyardB96@hotmail.com 1-800-936-3706 

1993 Ford Explorer (2 door) holding my breathEcan't watch W. Manual 4-wheel drive for 4 more years. 66,000 miles 
on Thursday night between  Pizza is great.  
Lafortune and Nieuwtand Science  NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE  HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01  WANTED FORMER ISLI PARTICI·  call: 784-B303 or 219-232-5557  
Hall. Man's watch with black, gray,  GA'S. PLEASE CALL MANYARD  4/5 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus.  PANTS TO FACILITATE UPCOM- I'm Henry the eighth, I am.  
and orange coloring. Call Steph at  AT 1-800-638-6963, X 6093. CALL  773-486-8822  ING CONFERENCE ON 11/18100.  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  
4-1675.  WILL BE RETURNED ASAP.  ORUDY' WILL BE THE GUEST  with orthopedic mattress set and  Almost done!  
2 ND/USC TIX+ AIRFARE!  hotel available for Nebraska game  SPEAKER. CALL JIM HART AT  deluxe frame. All new, never used,  
GOTO alumni.nd edu/-ndc_satx  9/8 9/9  Call rich 917-946-1800  277-1599 OR DR.LOMBARDO AT  still in plastic $235 219-862-2082  Hey Kalie Metzi, do you have a test  
TICKETS  Please help out a fellow American I  That Pretty Place, Bed and  THE CCE.  
 today or did I just make that up? well, if so, good luck. and if not,  
WANTED  need two tickets for the BC game. Contact Matt: 631-4111  Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115,  FOR SALE  PERSONAL  wen, nevermind then. Hi kelle ann  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  A family despret!y needs boston  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  
..  289-9280  college ticKets Will pay top dollar $$$  Toll Road, Exit#107, 1-800-418­9487.  #1 Spring Break 2001 NCancun,  Impress potential employers Keep in contact with friends and rel­ orgo, schmorgo ­all you chem peo­pie study way loo much, learn to  
@277-1659 thanksEE.  Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica,  atives  ' live a a little  
SELLING  Students Wanted! Alum-owned  Florida & S.Padre. Reliable TWA  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  For Sale: 2 GA BC tix 287-1449  2stry 5-6 bdrm, 2 bath  flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or  Student "business" cards are NOW  Gore  
251-1570  New: carpet, appliances, washer- FREE trips-call for details!  available at  
I need one G.A. ticket for B.C.  dryer. furnace-roof, & Security.  1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentex- Bush  
VICTORY TKTS  game. Please call Erin 4-4190.  Huge yard. 1blk N. of Club 23  press.com  THE COPY SHOP  
BUY'SELL'TRADE  $1375 inc. until Call Jason 240·  Lafortune Student Center  Gore  
ND FOOTBALL  I NEED BC TIX. 272-6306.  0322.  Phone 631-COPY  
232-0964  Spring Break 2001 Book group of  Bush  
BO GAME TICKET, PERFERABL Y  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  15 and GO FREE! Book before  THE COPY SHOP  
www victorytickets.com  IN STUDENTS SECTION,  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND.  Nov. 3 for FREE Meals! Visit us at  Gore  
DESIRED TO BE BE PURCHASED  GREAT AREA. 277-3097  sunsplashtours.com or call tor free  Lafortune Student Center  
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  BY CURRENT HIGH SCHOOL  info@ 1-800-426-7710  Store Hours  Bush  
273-3911  SENIOR AND PROSPECTIVE ND  2520 sq. ft. home for sale or lease  
OR SMC STUDENT, ENTERING  to buy in Knollwood. Moving.  Mon-Thur: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  Florida needs to make up its mind  
FALL 01, WILL BE VISITING BOTH  $174k 277-7992  94 Mitsubishi Galant  Fri: 7:30 a.rn -7·oo pm.  already!  
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  SCHOOLS BC WEEKEND.  Black/Sunroof/195k  Sat: Noon-6:00 p.m.  
A.M. -232-2378  PLEASE CALL ERIN GRIFFIN  3,4 & 6 BDRM HOMES. FURN.  $1950 obo  Sun: Noon-Midnight  Well, I'm outta here -g'night and  
P M -288-2726  (313)822-3263  NOW & 2001-02  272-6306.  Call (219) 634-0849  PHONE 631-COPY  sweet dreams alll  


· page 15

Wednesday, November 8, 2000 The Observer . FULL PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


• 
I 


• 
It really is that easy. Free, too. 
I 
~ I 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer OBSERVER 
online classifieds
• 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Indians let Ramirez explore market without guarantee 
A.ssociatcd P rcss 
AMELIA ISLAND. Fla. 
The Cleveland Indians appear will­ing to let Manny Ramirez check out the free agent market for himsnlf. 
But general manager John Hart also has a warning for the slugger: There might not be any money left in Cleveland for him if he eventually decides he wants to come back to the Indians. 
"We're probably first on a lot of peo­ple's list," Hart said Tuesday at the GM meetings, where he is plotting a strategy for life without Manny. "Players on the market view Cleveland as a very attractive place to play. We have a great team. a great core. great ballpark and great fans." 
Owner Larry Dolan said last week after receiving Ramirez's request for a $200 million, rn-year contract that the team would respond to agent Jeff Moorad by Tuesday. 
Moorad still is awaiting a counter­proposal. and l lart said there proba­bly would be one before Saturday, the first day Hamircz can discuss money with other teams. 
"We are in the same place we were last week and for several weeks before that," Moorad said. "Manny Hamirez would prefer to play with the Cleveland Indians. The organization asked us for a proposal and we gave them one in good faith. 
"Nothing has happened to change our position and it doesn't appear that anything has changed theirs," he added. "There really hasn't been any­thing new in the last 24 hours." 

Hart said he believed that Mourad had created an "artificial market" for Ramirez, and could be in for a sur­prise when he starts negotiating dol­lars with other teams on Saturday. 
"They made it very clear that this will be an economically-driven con­tract," Hart said. "They made that very clear to us. and I think they will make it very clear to other clubs." 
There are few teams that can aITord the salary Ramirez wants. The Yankees are one of them and have made Ramirez one of their top priori­ties. 
Armed with a new cable television contract, their revenues could top $200 million next year. However, even they appear unwilling to give Ramirez either $20 million annually or a 10­year contract. 
"This is Cleveland. It isn't New York," Hart said. "Our seven-year run has continued because we haven't paid too much to one player." 
Hart has cited statistics that no team since 1985 has won the World Series paying more than 13.4 percent of its payroll to one player. Figuring on a $90 million payroll, that would limit the Indians to paying about $12 mil­lion to their top player. 
"If you have five kids surrounding one star. will that get you to the promised land? Will you be playing meaningful games in September and make the postseason?" Hart asked. 
The Indians are already lining up replacements for Ramirez. and will be one of the leading contenders for free agent outfielder Ellis Burks. who is expected to get a two-year deal worth about $16 million. 
NHL 

Mcsorley suspended I year 
• Suspension will expire Feb. 20, 2001 for Feb. 21, 2000 attack 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Marty Mcsorley was sus­pended through Feb. 20 by NIIL commissioner Gary Bettman on Tuesday for slashing Donald Brashear across the head. 
That makes the total sus­pension for the former Boston Bruins defenseman one year -the longest for an on-ice act of violence in NHL hL-;tory. 
Bettman had suspended McSorley indefinitely after the attack during a game in Vancouver on Feb. 21, 2000. 
McSorley was convicted this past month in a Canadian court, but received a suspended sentence. 
Mcsorley. a free agent. can negotiate and sign with any NHL club, and he can begin practicing on Jan. 1. But he can't play until Feb. 21. 
Bettman, who noted that the player skipped a hearing held two days after the game, originally suspended McSorley for the remainder of the 1999-00 season and playoffs. 
He then was convicted of assault with a weapon on Oct. 6, with Judge William Kitchen giving McSorley a 
"I believe I owe it both to this player and to all the other present andfuture NHL players to impose a suspension ofa definite and ascertainable length." 
.Gary Bettman NHL commissioner 
conditional discharge, mean­ing Mcsorley will not have a criminal record. 
The conviction, which McSorley said he will not appeal, was the first of an NHL player for an on-ice hit since 1988. 
McSorley. a 17-year NHL veteran, met with Bettman a week ago, seeking approval to resume his career. 
Bettman looked at enhanced videotapes of the slash before rendering his decision. Mcsorley claimed he was trying to goad Brashear into a fight late in a 5-2 loss and was not attempting to injure him. 
Brashear missed 20 games with a concussion, but rejoined the Canucks this past season. 
Before making his decision. Bettman met with McSorley, his agents Mike Barnett and 
J.P. Barry. and his attorney Paul Kelly. Ian Pulver and Ian Penny of the NHL Players Association participated in the meeting by telephone, while Bettman was joined by Colin Campbell, the league's executive vice president and director of hockey opera­tions, who handles most dis­ciplinary cases. 

"I believe I owe it both to this player and to all other present and future NHL play­ers to impose a suspension of a definite and ascertainable length," Bettman said. "I have also considered Mr. McSorley's desire to have an opportunity to play in the NHL again in conjunction with his expressed remorse for his actions. 
"I simply cannot in good conscience justify imposing a suspension of less than one calendar year given the nature of the incident in question. regardless of the effect that suspension may have on Mr. McSorley's career. At the same time, however, by imposing a sus­pension of one year (as opposed to a set number of games). and with the suspen­sion scheduled to end nearly one full month before this season's trade deadline, I believe it is quite possible that Mr. McSorley might. in fact, be able to sign another NHL contract and thernfore continue his NI IL earner dur­ing the 2000-01 season." 
Phone calls to McSorley and his agent were not immediately returned. The Bruins declined to comment. 

¦¦¦ 

laFORTUNE BAllROOM 


THURSDAY, NOVEMBER ·9th 
1:00 

ACE lnlormation Night 
BE AN ACE TEACHER. 
ACE is a two year post graduate service program featuring three pillars: Masters Degree teacher preparation, community life, and spiritual development. To find out more about ACE, please stop by 109 Badin Hall or call us at 1-7052. 
Wednesday, November 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Furcal named Rookie of the Year 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Atlanta Braves shortstop Rafael Furcal was a run­away winner Tuesday in voting for the NL Rookie of the Year. 
Furcal, who hit .295 with 40 steals in 54 chances. received 25 of 32 first-place votes in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
The only player listed on all 32 ballots. Furcal got six seconds and one third for 144 points. . 
Rick Ankiel of the St. Loms Cardinals, who gained noto­riety during the pla_yoffs ~y becoming the first pitcher m 11O years to throw five wild pitches in one inning, was second with 87 points, get­ting six firsts, 17 seconds and six thirds. 
Wednesday, November 8 Friday • Saturday, November 10 -11 at 8 pm 
Sunday, November 12, 2000 at2:30 pm 
Little Theatre 
S•;n1 Muy'• Cofl..,0 
,~~~ 
~NOTREDAME, IN 
For ticket information contacr the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
284-4626 
New York Mets outfielder Jay Payton was third with 3 7 points, followed by Philadelphia outfielder-first baseman Pat Burrell with 10 points and Houston catcher Mitch Meluskey with seven. 
Furcal. whose claimed age of 19 has been disputed, became the first middle infielder to yvin the NL award since Steve Sax of Los Angeles in 1982. He became the sixth Braves player to win, joining Alvin Dark (1948), Sam Jethroe (1950), Earl Williams (1971), Bob Horner (1978) and David Justice (1990). 
After spending 1999 at Class A, Furcal led NL rook­ies in runs (87), walks (73), steals aml on-base percent­age (.394). He had only four homers -all in September -and 37 RBIs. 
Though he batted .306 

against right-handers, "Furcal slumped to .250 
against left-handers. 
Ankiel was 11-7 with a 
3.50 ERA and 194 strikeouts in 175 innings, helping St. Louis win the NL Central. 
That was overshadowed 
by his performance in the 
third inning of the 
Cardinals' postseason open­
er, when he became only 
the second pitcher in major 
league history to throw five 
wild pitches. joining Hert 
Cunningham, who did it for 
Buffalo of the Players 
League on Sept. 15, 1890. 
"Something obviously was 
wrong," Ankiel said. "What 
do you do? Put it behind you 
and look forward to the next 
one." 
During the regular season, Ankiel threw 12 wild pitch­es. By the time the postsea­son was done, Ankiel had 
nine wild pitches and 11 walks in only four innings. 
"He's a young kid and he's tough as nails," Cardinals pitch­ing coach Dave Duncan said after Ankiel threw two wild pitches in the NL Championship Series finale against the New York Mets. "He's going to be fine." 
Voting was done before the end of the regular season, and the 21-year-old left­hander impressed his opposition. 

Woods lashes out at PGA Tour in interview 
&sociated Press 
TRUMBULL. Conn. 

Tiger Woods lashed out at the PGA Tour for taking advantage of him, saying in a magazin_e interview that his frustration 1s serious enough that it "could escalate into a bigger situation." 
In an interview 
for the Nov. 10 
"Obviously, the Tour an opportunity
issue of Golf 
takes the concerns to discuss
World magazine, 
Tiger's con­

Woods said com­ofany ofits members 
cerns."

missioner Tim seriously. I'm sure the Asked to
Finchem speaks 
commissioner and Tiger characterize
to him only when 
his relation­

he wants the No. will have an 
ship with

1 player in the opportunity to discuss 
Finchem,

world to play in a 
Tiger's concerns. " Woods said a
certain tourna­
dialogue bare­

ment. 
ly exists.

Woods also Bob Combs 
"The only

said he didn't 
Tour spokesman 
time he talks

like how the tour was using his image for its own marketing and promotional purposes. . . .. 
"I believe what I believe m, Woods said. "I understand the whole picture. What amazes me is how much the public doesn't understand." 
When asked the seriousness of his conflict with the tour, Woods said, "Serious enough that if w_e don't make everyone aware of it now, it could escalate into a big­ger situation." 
Tour spokesman Bob Combs said Finchem does not discuss player relationships with the media, but added that the com­missioner and Woods have a "solid relationship." 
''I'm confused by these impli­cations," Combs said. "At every tournament, Tim has been very public and very clear about the excitement Tiger has injected into professional golf. 
"Obviously, -the Tour takes the concerns of any of its members seriously. I'm sure the commis­sioner and Tiger will have 
to me is when 

he wants me to do something for him," Woods said. "To play in this tournament or that tournament. It's not like he comes up to me and asks me how I'm doing." 
The magazine said Woods' relationship began to sour a year ago when the tour refused to let his father follow the "Showdown at Sherwood" against David Duval in a golf cart. 
Since then, he has become per­haps the biggest celebrity in sports. Woods has won nine tournaments this year, including three majors that made him, at 24, the youngest player to com­plete the career Grand Slam. 



Most ND Students Make Healthy Choices i 
C: 
i 
·c: Cl :::, 
'ffi 
,2 
j f 
I 
l

More than 80% drink only once 
i

a week or less frequently. 
f

Many ND students choose 5 NOT to drink alcohol.* 
J 

A message from PILLARS with Alcohol & Drug Education 311 Lafortune Student Center University ofNotre Dame · (219) 631-7970 http://www.nd.edu/~aldrug/ 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Strawberry's lawyer argues his condition 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 

Rather than expose Darryl Strawberry's medical and men­tal health secrets, his lawyer is dropping a legal strategy that argued his client should be treated leniently because of problems not related to drugs .. 
Joseph Ficarrotta said Tuesday he will continue argu­ing that Strawberry should be returned to a Tampa drug treatment center instead of being kept behind bars. 
Some of Strawberry's doctors 

may  be  called  to  testify  
Thursday  when  the  case  
resumes.  

Strawberry. 39, is battling a drug addiction and colon can­cer. He is being held in the Hillsborough County Jail on charges that he violated his house arrest in October by leav­ing a residential drug treatment center with a friend to use crack cocaine and the prescrip­tion drug Xanax. 
Tuesdav's developments come just four days after Strawberry appeared before Circuit Court Judge Florence Foster and told her he was using drugs and had stopped chemotherapy because he wanted to die. 
Prosecutors said it's the third time Strawberry has violated his probation from a 1999 arrest for drug and prostitution solicitation. The State Attorney's Office is asking that the eight-time All-Star be sent to prison. , . 
"It's the State Attorneys posi­tion that he is a threat to soci­ety," prosecutor Steven Wetter said. 
Initially, Ficarrotta had indi­cated he would ask the judge to consider that Strawberry has a "dual diagnosis," a legal term that could net Strawberry a lighter sentence. 
Under Florida drug laws, a dual diagnosis means a defen­dant has both a mental illness and a drug addiction. The des­ignation -which comes after doctors complete formal evalu­ations -lets judges opt out of mandatory prison sentences and instead send defendants to treatment. 
In Strawberry's case, Florida's sentencing guidelines wouldn't require Foster to send him to prison. but she could. She also has the option of sen­tencing him to more time in the county jail or returning him to the treatment center. 
Strawberry had lived at the center since Foster sentenced him to house arrest in early September. Ficarrotta said Strawberry would agree to wearing an electronic monitor if he could be sent back to the center. 
"The bottom line is this guy is a drug addict and he needs treatment," Ficarrotta said. 

Wednesday, November 8, 2000
page 18 The Obmver . SPORTS 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Defending champion Connecticut tops rankings 
cast is deep and talented. and 
Associated Pres• 
Auriemma brought in a top­notch recruiting class headed
NEW YOHK 
by Naismith player of tho year
UConn was unanimous at 
Diana Taurasi.
No. ·1 Tuesday in the 
Last season, the Huskies had
Associated Press women's 
an average victory margin of
basketball poll, the third time 
nearly 31 points and over­
since 1995 the Huskies have 
whelmed Tennessee 71-52 in
started the season on top. 
the national championshipThe defending national 
game. Only a one-point loss tochampions. ranked No. 1 f'rom 
Tennessee on Feb. 2 kept
beginning to end last season, UConn from being undefeated.
returri all live startfirs and all "I think there·s a feeling thatbut two reserves from a 36-1 
hey, that was team that last year's team.
romped "/ think ifwe weren't pre­
this is this vear'sthrough the season no. 1 and people t e a m· , " 
NCAA tour­
Auriemma said,
didn't expect us to win · 
nament. 
"and we're going
winning the whole thing. our kids 
to be even better 
every game 
would be disappointed." than we were
by al least 
last year."
15 points. 
Connecticut
T w o Geno Aurlemma 
received all 42 
years ago, 
Connecticut head coach 
first-place voteswhen the 
from the national
Huskies 
media panel and were No. 1 for sevnn weeks, had 1,050 points. Tennessee.
coach Geno Auriemma said his 
which also returns its entire
players weren't ready for the 
starting lineup, was a solid 
pressure that followed. Now, No. 2 with 1,002 points -48he said, thcv thrivt} on it. 
more than No. 3 Georgia,"I think i.f we weren't pre­which has twins Kelly and 
season No. 1 and people didn't Coco Miller for one more sea­
expect us to win the whole thing, our kids would be dis­son. 
Georgia and Connecticut
appointed," Auriemma said. 
meet Sunday in the Tip-Off
"That's just the way they 
Classic at Hartford.
feel." 
Tennessee, 33-4 last season,Connecticut's power-packed will rely on its senior trio oflineup includes two first-team 
Tamika Catchings, Semeka
All-Americans from last sea­Handal] and Kristen Clement. 
son, Shea Halph and Svetlana 
Catchings was the national
Abrosimova. The supporting player of the year. 
'~~~~­

1 . Connecticut ( 30-1) 1,097 1 2. Tennessee (28-3) 1,055 2 3. Louisiana Tech (28-2) 1,001 3 4. Georgia (29-3) 970 4 5. Notre Dame (25-4) 860 5 6. Penn St (26-4) 843 7 7. Iowa St (25-5) 785 10 8. Rutgers (22-7) 770 8 9. Santa Barbara (30-3) 736 9 10. Duke (26-5) 712 11 11. Texas Tech (25-4) 662 6 12. Mississippi St (23-7) 605 12 13. Purdue (22-7) 567 13 14. Old Dominion (27-4) 543 14 15. LSU (22-6) 503 15 16. Auburn (21-7) 377 16 17. Boston College (25-8) 312 17 18. Oklahoma (23-7) 270 18 19. Virginia (23-8) 265 19 20. Oregon (23-7) 226 24 21. Arizona (24-6) 216 22 22. Tulane (26-4) 214 21 23. No Carolina St (20-8) 210 20 24. Xavier (26-4) 96 NR 25. Michi an (22-7) 89 25 

.., 
' 
I 
Earn $20/hr! 
MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT
.. 
Still waiting for that killer test score to bring in some cash? 
Here's your chance! Call 1-888-581-8378 or ___,., email info.chicago@review.com Tlie 

for a teaching pos!lion today'  <:!.!incefOn  
Review  
www.review.com  1.888.581.8378  


Purdue, the 1999 national Wisconsin, North Carolina the week of Nov. 30, 1999. champion, was fourth, Duke State and Vanderbilt. Southwest Missouri State last was fifth, Notre Dame sixth, The final five were appeared in the poll the week LSU seventh and Rutgers, Southwest Missouri State, of Feb.17.1998. coming off its first NCAA Final North Carolina, Oregon, Among the conferences, the Four appearance, is eighth. Auburn and UC Santa Southeastern leads with six Louisiana Tech and Iowa State Barbara. teams in the Top 25 ­complete the Top Ten. Wisconsin, Vanderbilt, Tennessee, Georgia, LSU, 
At No. 11. Stanford is the Southwest Missouri State and Mississippi State, Vanderbilt highest-ranked team that did North Carolina also were not and Auburn. not appear in the final poll in the final poll last season. The Atlantic Coast last season. Vanderbilt and Southwest Conference has Duke, 
Old Dominion was 12th and Missouri State were not Virginia, North Carolina State Penn State 13th, followed by ranked at all during the sea­and North Carolina. The Big Oklahoma. Virginia, Texas son. East, Big Ten and Big 12 each Tech, Mississippi State, Vanderbilt was last ranked has three ranked teams. 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 


SO MUCH TO CHOOSE FROM... 
ONE SOLUTION. 
THE SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT 
. Devote 8 weeks to the service of those in need . Choose from over 120 sites across the United States . Earn 3 Theology Credits (with possible crosslists) . Receive a $1900 Tuition Scholarship with the option for 
an additional $1000 Americorps Scholarship . Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dome Alumni 
Informational Meetings at the Center for Social Concerns; Wednesday, November 8, 2000 7:00 PM Thursday, November 30, 2000 7:00 PM 
APPLICATIONS DUE NOVEMBER 27, 2000 FOR STUDENTS STUDYING ABROAD THIS SPRING FINAL DEADLINE FOR ALL APPLICATIONS -FEBRUARY 7, 2001 
Wednesday, November 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

No. 2 Miami scrutinizes BCS 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
Defensive tackle ·Matt Walters stared at the latest Bowl Championship Series rankings, analyzing Miami's position in each poll and try­ing to figure out what the Hurricanes need to happen to move into one of the top two spots. 
Walters, like many of his teammates, is learning more and more about the BCS every day. Even coach Hutch Davis is studying the system for the first time. 
Miami has to, especially since beating the iop two teams in the country and being ranked second in both major polls may not be enough to get the Hurricanes into the BCS championship game. 
"It's getting kind of inter­esting," Walters said. "The BCS was a good attempt to do something other than the polls, but right now it doesn't look like it's Lhe best idea. I'd be really disappointed if we won out and didn't play for national title. But we'll see. Hopefully, it will take care of itself. 
"Who knows? It might work out." 
Or it might not. 
The Hurricanes (7-1, 4-0 
Big East) might need to win big against Pittsburgh, Syracuse and Boston College, their three remaining oppo­nents. They also might have to hope for help, despite already beating then-No. 1 Florida State 27-24 last month and then-No. 2 Virginia Tech 41-21 on Saturday. 
Miami moved up two spots 
"The BCS was a good attempt to do something other than the polls, but right now it doesn't look like it's the best idea. I'd be really disappointed if we won out and didn't play for a national title. " 
Matt Walters Miami defensive tackle 
Lo third in Monday's BCS rankings, but is a little more than three-tenths of a point behind the Seminoles. And by the end of the year, FSU's strength of schedule will rank higher than Miami's. The Seminoles play No. 5 Florida on Nov. 18; Miami does not have a ranked oppo­nent remaining. 
But perhaps the biggest reason Miami trails FSV is the computer polls, one of four components used to determine the BCS rankings. Of the eight computer polls, seven factor in margin of vic­tory. 
Florida State is beating teams by an average of 37 points a game; Miami is win­ning by an average of 26 points. FSU's 54-7 win against No. 10 Clemson prob­ably means more than the Hurricanes' 20-point win against Virginia Tech. 
"It used to be there was a time when only the bookies were concerned with how many [points] people won the 
games  by,"  Davis  said.  
"Obviously  now,  that's  
become a factor."  

Also hurting Miami is an 11-point win over lowly 

Louisiana Tech and a sea­son-opening win over McNeesc Sta·tc that doesn't factor into the BCS because the Cowboys are a Division I­AA school. 
Miami could make up the difference by running up the score in its final three games. If not, the Hurricanes might need to start rooting against Oklahoma, Nebraska and Florida State. 
"We have to continue to keep scoring points," receiv­er Reggie Wayne said. "It's going to be real important because that's what it's all going to boil down to. It's dif­ferent when you're running up the score for no reason. But when you're running up the score to try and get some where, to the national cham­pionship, it kind of makes you look good. 
"We're trying to get to the national champ'ionship. [The computers] don't care who's running up the score. People have to understand it's out of our hands, so we have to do what we have to do to get there." 
Davis, once opposed to a playoff system for college football, seems to be leaning toward one after what has transpired in the BCS rank­ings the last few weeks. He paused for a few seconds when asked about how he would like to see the national title determined. 
Then he said, "Ask me in a month and I'll tell you." By then, the Hurricanes will know their BCS fate. 
"Ultimately all that really matters is winning," Davis said. "If you just keep win­ning, everything else will take care of itself." 
Maybe. 
Institute for Latino Studies First Annual Speaker Series 
"Corazon y Conversion: The Dynamics pf Undocumented Mexican Immigration and Spiritual Transformation Fr. Dan Groody, C.S.C. November 13, 2000 
"Bronze Screen: 100 Years of Latino Images in Hollywood" Nancy De Los Santos November 29, 2000 
"Lullabies, History, and Memory" Antonia Castaneda TBA -Spring 2001 
"Cuban Exile Catholics: Militancy, Community, and Identity: 1959-1992" Gerald Poyo April 3, 2001 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Battier, Murphy lead All-America team 
Associated Preso 
NEW YORK 

Shane Battier, a defensive star with an impressive all­around game, and Troy Murphy, the first player to 
lead the Big East in scoring 
.a n d 
rebound­ing, were the leading vote•geL­t e r s 


T u e s d a y Murphyfor The Associated Press' prcseason All-America team. Battier, who enters his senior season at Duke, was one vote short of being a unanimous selection by the 72-member national media panel. while Murphy. who will be a junior at Notre Dame, was on 62 ballots. Joining the forwards on the preseason team were Arizona senior center Loren Woods, who got 46 votes, and senior guard Jamaal Tinsley of Iowa State and sophomore guard Joseph Forte of North Carolina, who both had 39 votes. Maryland senior forward Terence Morris was sixth with 19 votes. The 6-foot-8 Battier is known for shutting down the opposition's top scorer regardless of size, as well as for the lost art of taking charges, but his offensive game has been impressive throughout his career. He averaged 17 .4 points and 5.6 rebounds last season and was among the top five in the ACC in 3-pointers per game, scoring, free-throw percentage, field-goal per­centage, blocked shots and steals. Then there is the matter of Battier, a second-team All­America last season after being an honorable mention pick in the preseason, being one of the best leaders Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski has ever had in his program. "Shane can score in every way," Krzyzewski said. "He's our best 3-point shooter, he's an outstanding foul shooter, he can post, he can fill a lane, he has really improved on driving the basketball. His position defensively is mag­nificent, almost on every play." Murphy averaged 22.7 points and 10.3 rebounds last season to lead the Big East in both categories, but even more surprising was that he returned to Notre Dame for his junior season. Matt Doherty left after one season to bcc.ome coach at North Carolina, but Murphy is ready to play for new coach Mike Brey. 
The 6-10 Murphy is the only 
returning All-America from 
last season but it's not indi­
vidual accomplishments he's 
looking for. 
"Until I accomplish all of 
the goals I have, I'll be 
around here," Murphy said. 
"The thing that's missing 
from my college experience is 
playing in that NCAA tourna­
ment. 1 don't care if I average 
12 points a game or four 
points a game. I want to get 
into the NCAA tournament." 
Notre Dame hasn't been in 
the NCAA tournament since 
1990. 
"I think he wants to be the 
guy that gets them back 
there," Brey said. "I think 
that means a lot to him." 
Woods missed the final 
month of the regular season 
and the NCAA tournament 
last season because of a back 
injury that required two oper­
ations. That forced him back 
for a fifth year of college and 
he said he's stronger than 
ever. 
The 7-foot-1 Woods, who 
set the NCAA record for 
blocked shots in a game last 
season with 14 against 
Oregon, averaged 15.6 points 
and 7.5 rebounds. The other 
four starters for the top­
ranked Wildcats all received 
votes in the preseason All­
America balloting. 
"If we win the national 
_championship and we play to the level we're capable of playing, then we will be the greatest team ever," Woods said. 
Tinsley ran the offense last 
season for the Cyclones while 
Marcus Fizer received all the 
individual attention. The 6-3 
New York City native aver­
aged 11.0 points, 5.1 
rebounds and 6.6 assists last 
season, but impressed even 
more people over the summer 
when he played for the Select 
team of college players that 
worked out with and played 
against the U.S. Olympic 
team. 
Forte was the ACC's rookie of the ,year last season as he became the first North Carolina freshman to lead the team in scoring. His 16. 7 scoring average might be affected this season as he will help with the ballhandling chores following the gradua­tion of point guard Ed Cota. Still, the 6-4 Forte was more than a shooter last season when he averaged 5.5 rebounds and 2.6 assists. 
Last year's prcseason All• America team consisted of Mateen Cleaves of Michigan State, Scoonie Penn of Ohio State, Chris Porter of Auburn, Quentin Richardson of DePaul and Morris. 
Cleaves was voted to the 
1 

second team at the end of the season, while Penn was a third-team pick. The others were all among the honorable mentions. 
Please recycle The Observer. 
page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November 12, 2000 
SAJhE-SE~ ATTRA-cTi0 ns: 

0URAGE 
I 
AilD THE BEAVTY AilD
I 
I I I 
I ST~nGTH OF THE 
I 
I. 
CATHOLiC TEACHiITG 
Homosexuality is one of the 
most controversial topics in the American social landscape. 
Unfortunately, public discussions of this subject onen bounce between the extremes of "gay rights" on one hand and "God hates fags" blbllcal fundamentalism on tho other. 
But this needn't be the case; the Catholic Church -virtually alone In Christendom ­leaches amessage of both real compassion and real hope for the men and women who live every day with some degree of same-sex attraction. 
Our two speakers will discuss some of the aspects of the lives of those who have such attractions, and the pastoral cam that can be provided them, in the context of the most Important consideration of all: Christ's Invitation to each of us to become saints in tho Kingdom of God. 
THURSDAY 
TT0VEllIBER 9~ 2000 
7:30 P.m. 113 DEBARTOLO HA.LL 
Question\and Answer Period. 
..:: 
.,, 
/' .,.,.,... 
I 
f~ ...l' '\.• 
,, ' 
/ /
/ ./ 

, ' I I' -.._ ,,..,,,,.,r~· 
¢1" 
I, 
,,. ..... , -~,_.,.,,,.,..,..... 
. .1 

... _ . ~..,.,,_.1........,.-'" -.1-·•.,.,.,~··· 
Rev. John Harvey, OSFA, STD. couRAGE Mr. David Morrison. Aware of his attraction to other is an organization that provides spiritual supporrior men and women boys from aboutage 13, Mr. Morrison grew up as an isolated, angry striving to live chaste lives in accordance with the Catholic Church's adolescent who'then became a gay activist1until his late twenties. pastoral.teaching on homosexuality. Fr. Harvey is the founding Director Becoming disill~sioned with the actively gay life, he turned to God of this remarkably effective movement. He has written and lectured for and, later, the Roman Catholic Church. He has written extensively 
over forty years on the pastoral care of individuals with same-sex on issues of fajth, identity, sexuality, and cultLre. Mr. Morrison is also 
attractions. He is the author of two books including The Truth About the author of the widely-read book BeyondGay (Our Sunday Homosexuality: The Cry of the Faithful (Ignatius Press, 1996). Visitor, 1999). \ / 
·, /

________________________.._______k,/
" / 
•. . 
"""'--it.. .._ .._(It

0 f f e r e d i n Co o p e r a t i o n wi t h ! ·-._.,..,.. -~·, Jacques Maritain Center • Knights of ··columbus Sc h u b m e h I -Pr e i n C h a i r En d ow m e n t • S t . T h o m a s Mo·re·-.. So c i et y 
Gemlllde voo Annibale Carracci, 1560-1609, Domine, quo vsdis?. National Gallery, London. 
--... -......................... . 
Wednesday, November 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

V-ball 
continued from page 24 
do that tonight in two and a half games.'' 
The Notre Dame seniors came out strong in the third game to lead the 
"We had a little bit ofa
Irish to a 
12-0 lead lapse in the end ofthe before third game but we allowing 
showed some composure
the under• 
to pull it out in the end." 
classmen a chance at St. Louis. Debbie Brown · T h C 
Irish head coach 


Billikens, however, fought hack to close the gap to 13-10 before the Irish secured their win. 
" I thought it was great for the seniors to play together for two and a half games," Brown said. "They did a great job. For a last regular­season game I think it's good. I think our young ones learned that they needed to get the job finished and they finally did -they just made us all sweat a little bit. 
"We had a little bit of a lapse in the end of the third game but we showed some 
composure ~o the end." 
pull it out in 
Shimmel· set a career­
high  with  
nine  kills  
and  five  

blocks in the match while Girton also set career­highs with 15 kills and 11 digs. Senior 
Denise Boylan racked up 40 assists and Kreher added 13 kills, four blocks and six digs. 
The Irish will end its regu­lar season at Syracuse this Saturday before moving on to the Big East champi­onships, to be held Nov. 18 and 19 at the Joyce Center. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
LIZ LANG/fhe Observer 

Jo Jameyson, shown above, sends the ball past Fairfield defense in a win earlier the season. The 
-------------------------Irish are currently 22-5 on the season following a win against St. Louis.
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Guest Lecture Series presents 
~benb=::MUSIQVE 
Concert XV: MEDIEVAL CHANT & ORGANUM 
~1!l $'>cbola :ifflustcorum 

Wed., Nov 8, 2000 
9:30 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public 
For more information, lease call (219) 631-6201 or visit htt ://www.nd.edu/~congoers 
(Qpy SHOP 
Lafortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPV 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm• Sunday: Nooi1 to Midnight 


Copyright 2000 • All Ri!!,hts Kcservcd • ·J J/00 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
"She is a good player. She got me a little scared in the second but I was serving well. Overall I am happy with the way I played." 
In the doubles final, going for their second straight crown. Dasso and Varnum faced off against the second seeded team of Dascoli and Monica Rinon. 
The Irish duo once again rolled through the match to claim an 8-3 victory and their second consecutive doubles title. Dasso and Varnum, who are now ranked seventh in the country, have earned spots in the Rolex National Indoor Grand Slam with this finals victory. Overall Dasso and Varnum were happy with their performance and glad to repeat their champi­onship. 
"Throughout the whole tour­nament it was tough because 

As professionals, The Copy Shop in the LaFortune Student Center will provide you with high-quality documents. We pride ourselves on being masters of accuracy. Whether you have manuals, brochures, or other copy projects, you can he sure of receiving the highest level of accuracy for your dollar. We'll show you what accuracy is all about! 
High Volume Copying & Printing Color Copying, Scanning & Printing Binding/ Tabs/ Laminating/ Fax Service Newsletters / Reports / Business Cards Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! Quality Copies, Quickly!~ 
We Accept

www.CopyShopND.com 
,;.¥~RS 

everyone was out to get you," Dasso said. "But I was kind of relaxed. I just wanted to go out and enjoy it and have fun." 
The story of the season for the Irish has to be Dasso, who has played better and better each week. Dasso set out some lofty goals for herself this year but has stressed having fun and enjoying her last year as an Irish tennis player. 
'This fall I tried to keep a pos­itive attitude and I just wanted to go out and enjoy my senior year as much as possible and do the best I can," Dasso said.. "Heading into the fall I just wanted to improve on last year. They key was staying positive and believing in myself." 
This marks the last tourna­ment of the fall for the Irish and Dasso. They open up the team competitions in January against Duke. 
"In the spring I just want to help the team as much as possi­ble," Dasso said. "I ·think we can do very well. We have some great freshman and great juniors." 
After a solid first semester the Irish froip. the seniors right down to the freshmen will look to make some major waves in team play starting next spring. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 81 2000 
FOOTBALL 

Politics, election hit home for Davie, Irish 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistam Sports Editor 
Proving that the attention given to close presidential election extends everywhere, Irish head coach Bob Davie t o I d reporters of his feel­i n g s regarding the cam­paign at his weekly news con­fer enc c Tuesday afternoon.· 
Davie compared the prepa­ration that the candidates put into their campaigns to the weekly prnparation the Irish go through before taking the field on Saturday. 
''I look at the schedules those guys have kept -not that I follow it closely -but just all the time those guys have put into things," Davie said. "All of a sudden it comes down lo today. They' re going to tabulate those votes just like you tabulate {the score) at the end of that game." 
Davie also revealed having an indirect relationship with the Bush family through his close friendship with Texas A&M coach H.C Slocumb. The two had jogged together around a pig farm adjacent to the football practice fields while conching together in College Station. Where that pig farm once sat is now the Bush Memorial Library. 
Slocumb has also become good frinnds with former pres­ident Bush. 
"RC has become good friends with George Sr.," Davie said. "They golf a lot together. They're good friends." 
Davie also addressed the possibility uf moving injured starting quarterback Arnaz Battle to another position when he returns next rail. While making it clear that Battle would be the current starting quarterback were he not injured. Davie admitted that with the development of freshmen Matt Lovecchio, Jared Clark and Carlyle Holiday, he has toyed with the possibility of switching the athletic Battle to another posi­tion. 
"You know what, if those young quarterbacks make that kind of development and can pass him up," Davie said. "I 


think it would be a win-win 
situation for us because that 
means those young quarter­
backs would have to be really 
good." 

Looking onto Saturday's 
game against Boston College, 
Davie is paying little attention 
to talk that Eagles' star quar­
terback Tim llasselbeck will 
miss the game with an injury. 
Davie believes that 
llasselbeck·s backup, Brian St. 
Pierre. is nearly as capable as 
Hassclbeck. 

"Ile throws the ball well. 
He's pretty mobile," Davie 
said. 'Tm not sure he runs the 
same way Tim Hasselbcck 
does. lie can run. We recruit­
ed him." 

Facing a multi-faceted 
Eagles offense, Davie 
expressed concern after the 
Irish defense has proved vul­
nerable in the fourth quarter 
of the last four games. 

"I think looking at it, it's been three different kinds of situations." Davie said, "But it's still a situation where we need to improve on pass defense. I mean, that's still our Achille's heel. just like it was back before a game was ever played here." 
The pass defense will have to improve as reserve corner­back Clifford Jefferson is out with an ankle injury. 
Jason Beckstrom will get more time on the field as a result of Jefferson's injury. Davie believes this week's game will be a test for Beckstrom. 
"Jason Beckstrom is going to play," Davie said. "He played a lot at the end of the Air Force game. lie got tired at the end of the Air Force game. No. 5 did some good things against him at the end of the Air Force game." 
NOTES 

. With offensive coordinator Kevin Hogers' name being mentioned for various head­coaching spots, Davie believes that wide receivers coach Urban Meyer would be an appropriate replacement. lie also revealed that Meyer has been considered for the head coaching spot at Bowling Green. 
"I've got no reservations about Urban Meyer being a head football coach. I have no reservations about him being an offensive coordinator. He has a tremendous future," he said. 

Student Workers Needed To help assist other students using the temporary, DA.RT registration system at che Registration Center, Gl84 Hesburgh Library from 
rh · 
November 8 through December l '' 
Hours: 9:00 am to 5:00 pm 
Dates: 

November 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 28, 29, 30, December 1 
We need student help rhroughour rhe day... you pick your time you are available 
Please Contact: Arlene Vogt, Assistant Registrar, 105 Main Building, Registrar's Office 631-6050 


LIZ LANG/The Observer 

Boston College quarterback, Tim Hasselbeck, shown above, will be out of the game this week­end due to an injury. Davie expects an equally capable performance from his backup. 

TIAA-CREF provides financial solutions to last a lifetime. 
Call us for 
afree 
co?sultatian 

Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out With TIAA-CREF, how those assets can provide you with a 
you can receive:* 
comfortable retirement is quite another. 
• Cash withdrawals At TIAA-CREF, we can help you with both. You • Systematic or fixed-period payments** can count on us not only while you're saving and • Interest-only payments planning for retirement, but in retirement, too. • Lifetime income payments** 
• A combination of these 
"Guaranteed by our daims·paying ability.
Just call us. We'll show you how our flexible range of 
payout options can meet your retirement goals. 
CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT 1 
With TIAA-CREF, you benefit from something few 
other companies can offer: a total commitment to 
27.87% 
26.60%
26.70%

your financial well-being, today and tomorrow. 
SINCE INCEPTION AS OF 6/30/00 5 YEARS1YEAR 
4/29/94 . *Note: Availability may depend on your employer':; retirement 
6/30100 
-~--~:·0,"!-.~!,·~·-,:tt··-2 
,·..·,i--':•i',.::,:,.'.,,,:'•· :,><,i,r,f

:,,, ... l...,:•~ .-r'. ,'" 
plan provisions contract. Under tederol tax law, w1thdrawc1ls 
prior to age 5911 may be subject to restnct1ons, and may also be CREF Growth is one of many CREF variable annuities. 
subject to a 10% additional tax. Additional restrictions also 
apply to the TIAA Traditional Annuity 

Ensuring the future 
1.800.842.2776 
for those who shape it.'M 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext 5S09, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully 
1. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The invest­ment results shown tor (REF Growth variable annuity rellects past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate. so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemp­tion.• TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Sefllices, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements • TIAA ~nd TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
~ 
before you invest. 


TYLER

TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

fottooRer,ov 
~ 
'lou -th,I\\< tho.+'s 
ho.rd · W~o.t t't'\& 
ne,k Wo.~ ~ -th1W\k1~? 
l 

BILLAMEND
Fox TROT 


Gl'IE IT UP, lASoN. I'M 
NoT 
Yl'NoT1!ED. 
.,
THIS FoOCAULT 

PENOVLuM'S 
A RtP•OFF. 
,-;;::::.' 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 39 Writer Sarah 1 Music whose 
Jewett name is Sanskrit 40 Russian for "color" regulars on the 5 Bear 
Lawrence Welk Show?
9 Commandment word 
44 Part of a western landscape
14 Border on 45 Fireballer Ryan 15 Fiendishness 46 Place for quiet,16 Room on board at times17 Lion's share 47 Give a pep talk18 "And bed": 50 They're taboo
Pepys­
52 Surgery sites, 19 Ain't right? 
briefly20 Russian Irving 
54 Score marksBerlin classic? 
58 Request to a23 Opera house Russianattire 
procrastinator?24 Pendulum's path 
64 Stick with a pin 25 Shoptalk 
65 Scratch 29 Do a second 
66 Priest of the hitch with 
East 34 Tread the boards 67 "Mule Train" 37 Kind of game singer 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

=-t--,,.+-,-+,,.,i 12 Austrian city on I S the Danube 13 Demolition stuff 21 Chutzpah ~~~---~~;.;.. 22 Misquote, say -=--t-=1--:-:-1111r.::-t-::-t-:~-1 26 Card game cry ..;.;.J1-...;~:..i-.=+=-1 27 Valhalla V.I.P. ~~~ 28 Dovetail part 30 Scribble 31 They could use refinement -+--+-M--A,-t 32 Concerning =-t--+E-,+-,N,... 33 Kite's home ____.__,___..._ N G 34 "Don't look _!" 
68 Tutor of Siamese royalty 
69 Anon's partner 
70 He caught Holyfield's ear 
71 Gobi rarity 
72 Newsroom fixture 
DOWN 
1 Hospital egresses 2 Here or there 3 Zest 4 Fifth-century scourge 5 Cancun coin 6 Bristof's county, in England 7 Name of two British P.M.'s 8 Greeting or farewell 9 Numismatist's 
description 10 Mata 11 Act as lookout, 
say 

Puzzle by Fred Plscop 
35 Food that's part of a square meal? 
36 Musician John 38 1952 Winter 
Olympics site 41 Southeast Asian 42 Golfer Woosnam 43 Bullpen sound 48 Way past ripe 49 Take a whack at 51 S.W.A.K. part 53 To date 55 Amistad 
passenger 56 Marathon data 61 Radius neighbor 57 Lewis Carroll 


62 Rajah's wife 

critter 58 Wharf 63 Ugly Duckling, eventually
59 "The Haj" writer 
60"Money_ 64 Nonkosher object!" lunch 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Katharine Hepburn, Angel Cordero Jr., Bonnie Raitt, Courtney Thorne-Smith, Rickie Lee Jones, Parker Posey 
Happy Birthday: You will be aggressive, persuasive and deter­mined to get what you want this year. You contribute good ideas and gain hands-on expertise, which will raise your profile as well as your confidence. You can achieve plenty if you are willing to accept change. The more you do, the more you will learn this year. Your numbers: 5, 18, 26, 34, 41,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Don't go fooling yourself. You aren't likely to see situations at work cor­rectly. Help someone you care about. Spending too much on others will cause financial problems. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Secrets will be made public if you have told too many people your pri­vate matters. Confusion re~ardlng travel is likely if you haven t made careful arrangements. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Groups that you have joined will not be as serious about important issues as you are. Your time will be wasted if you don't make things clear in the 
beginning.000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Spend time with those you enjoy. You should look into activities that will allow you to exploit your talents. Your interest in history and genealo­gy will attract others. 0000 
LEO Quly 23-Aug. 22): Get out of the house. You need to go out with friends and avoid the stress and ten­sion that is hanging over your home environment. Look into jobs that involve a residential move. 00000 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): Stay away from get-rich-quick schemes. You will be a bit of a spendthrift. Purchases made today will be unsat­isfactory. One-sided infatuations are likely. Spare your heart by keeping tlungs in perspective. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cL 22): Don't make up stories about your where­abouts. You may be trying to keep the peace, but deception is not the way. Talk to your confidant and ask for good sound advice. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful not to step on toes at work. Minor health problems may set you back. You need to put in a little over­time if you want to get everything done.000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't take financial risks. You will have trouble hanging onto money. Begin a sports activity that will tire you and keep you out of trouble. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jlll. 19): Moves will be hectic, but beneficial. You can expect family members to become upset if there is too much 
stress. Try to make the situation bet­ter by decreasing the workload. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will take things the wrong way 1 today. Don't overreact to the innuen-I does made by others. Be yourself and do your own thing. Rumors won't last if you don't acknowledge them.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be taken advantage of if you don't watch out for friends who don't have your best interests at heart. Don't be too eager to help those unworthy of your kindness and compassion. 000 
Birthday Baby: Your happy-go-lucky attitude will bring you popularity among your peers. You will have the courage to stand up for your rights as well as for those you care about. You are loyal. giving and eager to please. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaat.com, astromate.com.) C 2000 Univ\,rsal Press Syndicate 




MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tonight, 7:30 pm 
vs. California AAU All-Stars 
Support Mike Brey in his coaching debut! Come watch #15 Notre Dame in their first exhibition ofthe season! 



Electing to win 
Irish head coach Bob Davie prepares his team for Saturday's clash with the Eagles ofBoston College.
PORTS 
page 22 

O
THE page 24 BSERVER Wednesday, November 8, 2000 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Dasso wins Midwest singles, doubles championships 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Spans Wrircr 
Another women's tennis tournament, another out­standing performance for Michelle Dasso. This pasl weekend Dasso wun both the singles and doubles finals al the Midwest Regional Championships in Michigan. This is lhe first time the Irish have won both the singles and doubles finals in the event. Dasso won the singles title as a freshman in 1997 and also won the doubles last year with partner Becky Varnum. 
''One of my goals has been to win both my senior year," said the All-American. 
This tournament marked Dasso's second finals appear­ance this season. Her first came in the T. Howe Price Invitational in September. The No. 1 seeded Dasso came out strong in singles and won a pair of straight-set matches to get her to the semifinals. 
She later teamed up with partner Becky Varnum as the defending champion doubles duo reached the semifinals 

... after two more straight-set victories. Last year in their first tournament as a team the two advanced to the finals after a tough first few rounds and then won the Midwest Regional Championship. 
"This year we played a lot better as a team," Dasso said. "Becky played unbelievable and we pretty much rolled though the tournament." 
In the semifinals Dasso and Varnum rolled through Western Michigan's fourth­seeded Larissa Chinwah and Meaghan Colville 8-2 to reach the finals for the second con­secutive year. 
In the same day Dasso defeated Northwestern's fifth­seeded Colleen Cheng 6-1, 6-1 in her third straight set singles match of the tournament. The win set up a finals match against second-seeded Kristy Dascoli from Ohio State. who had knocked out Dasso in the semifinals of the Midwest Regional last year 
In the singles final. like in much of the tournament, Dasso came out strong in the first match winning 6-2. Dascoli, however, battled back in the second, sending it into a tie-breaker after being down five games to two. In the tie­breaker, Dasso finished her off winning the match 7 -6 (8­
6). 
"Dascoli and I always have tough matches," Dasso said. 
see TENNIS/page 21 


Michelle Dasso, shown above, won "both the singles and doubles finals at the Midwest Regional Championship this past weekend to become the first in Notre Dame history to hold both titles. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish ready to move into season 
and No. 17 in the ESPN/USA Junior Harold Swanagan (6.4
By BRIAN KESSLER 

Today Coaches Poll after post­points per game) also returns Sporrs Wriccr 
ing a 22-15 record last season at center for the Irish. en route to a runner-up finish "It's definitely a lot of fun to 
The 2000-01 season hasn't in the NIT. It is the first time play with Troy, Ryan and even started yet and the Notre the Irish have been ranked Harold," Carroll said. "We have lJame men's basketball team is since the first regular season some good big men and you already sick of each other. poll of 1989-90. know when you get the ball 
Sick of playing scrimmages The Irish, under first-year inside to them. they are going against each other, that is. head coach Mike Brey. return to score." 
"We've been playing against four starters from last year's Sharp shooters David Graves each other since July," sopho­squad, including All-American (13.2 points per game) and more guard Matt Carroll said. and player of the year candi­Carroll (9.8 points per game) "We're ready to get out there date Troy Murphy. expect to pick up where they
r: and take on some new guys." As a sophomore, Murphy was left off last season. while senior The Irish will have that oppor­the only player nationally to Martin lngelsby will run the tunity tonight when they host finish in the top 10 in both show at point guard. Ingelsby, the California AAU All-Stars in scoring and rebounding as he who started at the point during an exhibition game at the Joyce averaged 22.7 points and 10.3 his first two seasons for the Center at 7:30 p.m. rebounds on his way to Big Irish, played behind senior 
"I don't know too much about East player of the year and Jimmy Dillon last season. them, but we looked at some of first-team All-American honors. "Martin has looked really their stu!T today and there were Murphy and senior transfer good," Carroll said. "He worked a fow plays that I recognized Ryan Humphrey are expected really hard in the preseason from other teams," Carroll said. to be one of the best front-line and he done a great job so far "They am a bunch of talented tandems in the nation. in practice. He's a senior with a guys that had successful Humphrey, a 6-foot-8 forward, lot of experience and I know he careers in college and they've will see his first action in a can't wait to get going." played a lot of good teams Notre Dame uniform since With a potent scoring attack tough in the past." transferring from Oklahoma in place, the Irish have stressed 
Notre Dame finds itself where he was a third-team All ranked No. 15 in the AP Poll Big 12 selection in 1998-99. see B-BALL/page 14 
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish win last home regular-season game 
The Irish, currently 22-5 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 

overall and 10-0 in the con­
Sports Writer 

ference, jumped into game one to grab five points before The Notre Dame volleyball 
allowing the Billikens to team, Big East regular-sea­
score. Seniors Adrienne son title holder, swept St. 
Shimmel and Christi Girton Louis University in a three­each racked up four kills to game victory (15-5, 15-5, 15­
aid the Irish in the win. 
10) in its 


Game two went back and last reg­
forth between the teams, ular-sea­
before Notre Dame was able 
s o n 

to dominate the game. Girton h o m e 
slammed seven kills while match of 
junior Kristy Kreher added the year. 
six. 
" We 

"Christi Girton in particular thought 
had a great game in every
th at we Girton 

aspect, blocking, hitting, should 
defense, everything," Brown be able to beat them in three 
said. "She and Denise, all our games if we played well," 
seniors, have shown great head coach Debbie Brown 
leadership throughout the said. "We did come out and 
entire year and continued to play strong. I think it was 
about what we expected." see V-BALL/page 21 
=====================================================================================-::----­
vs. California AAU All-Stars Women's College Cup Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Second round 
SPORTS • ti 
Saturday, TBA Cross country ATA NCAA District IV Championships in Ypsilanti, Mich.
at Boston College 
vs. Boston College
-
Saturday, TBA
Friday, TBA

GLANCE ~-,~ Saturday, 3:30 p.m. • 
' 






