
Access denied 
Campaign 2000 
JJrilish and French troops.fired tear gas inlo a 
Candidates for Saint Mary's class of]ices and 

Tuesday
crmNI ofethnic 11/banians who tl'ere allempting 
Di1,ersity Hoard discussed their platforms at a 
to cross a bridge into a Serb-occupied z-one. 
Meet the Candidates session. 
FEBRUARY 22, 
WorldNation . page 5 
News . page 4 
2000 

The lndependent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 88 HTTP:!/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Hanover rejects appeal; O'Donoghue victorious 
BvTIM LOGAN 
In a surprisP movP Monda.y, I lu111. I lanov1'r and .John Mic:<'k said thrw would not nppr'ul tlrn l(!Pt'.Lion· CommittPt'S forl'l>iturr or dwir candiclacv for stu<font body pn'sidl'nl a,;d virn prt>si­rlt·nl. l'llcling an dt't·tiun Lhnl !ms bP1•11 mark1•d wilh 1·ontrovl'rsy f'rom thP start 
Tlw dl'l'ision wa,; made Sunclav £'VPning. anurding to i\1ic1d.:. aftPr tlw pair ,tnd somP of sup­pnrtPrs nwl and agrnPd thaL Lo 
file an appeal. dragging out what has already ber,n a long and arduous election. ,..,ould only l'ur­thr.r alienate studrmts from stu­d r n l gov­ernment. 
"\IV h C 11 you rn <'i<,ctecl,.. h<' 
said ...You rq:irescn t tht> atti­tudns ol"thc, studPnt body. and this elec­tion has puslwd lhc student body 

om of student gov·ernment." 
Micek expressed hope that the newly elected Licket -Brian O'Donoghufl and Hrooke Norton 
would work to repair-that damage. 
o·oon­oghue, no longer wor­rind about an appeal. was enthu­sia..stir'. to get to work. 
"Brooke and I are really happy now that we have tho opportuni­ty to go full-steam straight ahead and ·work to make Our Lady's University a better place," he said. The pair has been working as student body president and vice president-elert sinre Friday. he said, preparing for the year in office. 


The forced forfeiture rast a shadow over their initial victory Thursday, but O'Donoghuo did not predict a similar shadow would be cast over the coming year. 
"Would we have liked to won on a popular vote. absolutely," 
Belles welcome Hispanic students 
Mary's contribute to the inclusion of' many minori­ties, and Latinas are the group most represented on campus. 
Recent studies per­formed by the Educational Testing Service and Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities show that Hispanics, more than any other single group, believe a college education is important for everyone. The curriculum at Saint Marv's has evolved to reflect a more diverse population, and now indudes courses on Chicano literature, Latin American politics and international business. 
"Our Chicana lit class discusses the struggles of being a Chicana woman." said junior Mariecruz Segura. "Students become close because we feel we can relate to one another. We tell stories, going fur­ther than the text, and by opening up and finding examples, we become a very personal class." 
For some students, it is important to feel part of a larger community before Lhev can learn. Such a feeling is especially diffi­cult to achieve ,vhen they are in the minority and milP-s from home. 
"When you leave hon1c. you leave behind your sup­port -your family," Hernandez said. "In col­lege my friends became my family and support. since sometimes onlv other Latinas can understand what you l'eel and see around you. It is only understandable that you look for a network of sup­port similar to your own family." 
However, like many 
see LATINA/page 6 

• Recent studies indicate that SMC is an attractive option for Latina students 
By NICOLE HADDAD News Writer 
Friday afternoons mark a celebration like "Cinco de 1\.Iavo" in Manuela Hernandez's Le Mans !--!all dorm room ea1:h week. With her Latino music blaring. Hernandez usual­lv relaxes, relieved to have finished another week of dasses. 
During her tinw at Saint i\.lary·s. the meaning of being a Latina student has c:hanged significantly. The number of Lal.inas has increased. and the College has been recognized for efforts to acrommodate these students. 
The Hispanic Outlook. a publication dedicated to exploring issues related to Hispanics in higher educa­tion. recently listed Saint !Vlary's College in its 4th annual "Publisher's Picks" issue as a college offering outstanding opportunities !'or Hispanic students. Selections were based on factors such as t'i1rnnrial aid, scholarships and rep­resentation of Hispanics in faculty and administration. 
"Saint Mary's College offers many opportunities for our Latina students to become involvrid n.nd grow. said ,f,luria Oropeza. director for the Office of Multicultural Affairs. "Our financial aid here is very strong. vvhich enables students to look al us seriously as a choice for them." 
The progressive financial aid programs at Saint he said. "But is this in any way going to hinder our administra­tion. absolutely not." 

The pair was handfld the presi­dency Thursday when the Election Committee, made up of judicial commissioners from each dorm. voted that Hanover/Micek violated three election bylaws, and thus were eliminated from the race. The violations each involvfld the use of' e-mail in campaigning, and one noted that senior Michael Fairchild, a Hanover/Micek sup-
see ELECTION/page 6 

Students provide tax assistance 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Associate News Editor 
For more than 25 years. Saint Marv's and Notre Dame stu­dents have reached out to mem­bers of the South Bend commu­nity by applying classroom learning to assist low-income individuals file their taxes. 
Begun by a Notre Dame law student and MBA student in 1972, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Tax Assistance Program recruits mainly accounting and finance majors to volunteer during February, March and April to provide free tax preparation for community residents who make less than $30,000 per year. 
All students who choose to be involved in the program must take an income tax course as a pre-requisite, said Ken Milani, faculty coordinator of the pro­gram and a professor in the College of' Business at Notre Dame. At the start of second semester, the students are also required to have additional training outside of the class. 
"The extra 10 hours of train­ing the students take focuses on situations they may encounter most often," said Milani. "We emphasize the child tax credit and dependent care credit among others. that may not be emphasized in their tflxt books on income tax. 
"Howevrr, these are impor­tant to be aware of' with our clients. Also, becausfl many of the students participating are not from Indiana, we spend about three hours on the Indiana tax return form itself." 
ctaude Renshaw, coordinator of' the program for Saint Mary's 
see TAXES/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, february 22, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Jubilee justice, 
ND style 

We are aJn,ady six weeks into the Great Jubilee Year 2000. hir YlK. millennial parties or even graduation from Notre Dame, we have waited and planned l'or yP.ars. But as Christians, we have also been preparing for the 
Great Jubilee that is a part of this historical year. 
A tradition with its rooL-; in the Ilebrew Srripturcs and il'1 beginning Ifor Christiansl in A.D 1300. tlrn .Jubilee is a year in which debts both spiritual and 


material are forgiven. In the 
ancient Hebrew tradition. A.J. Boyd land was not fanned and everyone's debts of land or 
n~.,11,,d assistant 

money were ca '·" " . Since the 14th century. spe-Viewpoint editor rial indulgences have been granted to pilgrims visiting sacred sitPs and forgiving their debtors. Orig'inally once a century. the Jubilee now occurs every 50 years. This year is no exception. Pope John Paul II asked the leaders of the world's nations to participate in this ancient tra­dition by for1-,>iving international debts. Most com­plied immediately. Even the champion of capital­ism and usury. the United States. agreed to for­give billions of dollars in debt to the poorest of nations. The Holy Father and the bishops of our Church havP asked that everyone adopt the same penitPntial and charitable actions. Which brings us to Notre Dame. Most demand­ing rurriculum ot' any undergraduate school in the country: world-renowned in theology, philos­ophy, architecture. law and athletics; third largest university endowment in the country (15th in the world); and an annual operating budget more than 220 percent that of the Vatican City. There is no question that Notre Dame is one of the premier institutions of Catholic education in the world. It is also the wealthiest. Every year approximately 65 percent of the student body receives linanc:ial aid in the form of scholarships. loans and work-study. It normally takes 10 years to pay off these debL.;;, which typi­cally amount to between $20,000 and $25,000. Many of our students don't need the maximum allowance for loans. but assuming that everyone who reHeved financial aid were indebted to the fullest. the University of Notre Dame would be able to forgive their students' debts entirely from its annual surplus in less than three years. I stress that this debt forgiveness that I suggest would come from surplus and not even the endowment or actual budget of the University. Christ says in the Gospels that the poor widow's mite was worth all the more because it was all she had. while the rieh man who gave out of his surplus would not enter the Kingdom of Heaven. So what I am asking is hardly anything ... if the University's administrators really wanted to show their faith, it would be a reduction of overhead expenses to increase free grant aid to all students who have the need. Forget Ex Corde Ecdesiae. If the University wants to be true to its Catholic character. it shouldn't 1wen question bending over backwards to ensure that all of its current students and indebtc~d alumni are forgiven their trespasses so that they might go about forgiving the debts and trespasses of others. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Maureen Smithe  Emmert Malloy  
Erin LaRuffo  Jenn Zatorski  
Helena Rayam  Graphics  
Sports  Jose Cuellar  
K.ithleen O'Brian  Production  
Viewpoint  Brian Kessler  
A.J l~oyd  Lab Tech  
Betsy Srorcy  

Tlie Observ.-r (USPS 59'1 2-100UJ "published M"nd,y thmugh Friday excepr dt1rin~ t·x;,m ;1ntl v.1c:11itm }">t'tiods. Tltt' Ohse-rvrr i~ J me-11,Ut'r of,he A,;.~oL"i.utd Press. All. reprodul'.tio11 ri~lits: ,m: rl'served. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 

"Ifwe look at higher "{Father Richard "This is going to be "The workload education in terms of l'vlcCormickl was a one ofthe goofiest is so demanding Christianity, then the gracious gentleman elections ofall that it's difficult 
.goal [for students} is 

who seemed time. Just watch, to form social not: lhe momenl of comfortable with something is going relationships."graduation but the 
his humanity." to happen."
moment they che." 

Tim Dysart Maureen Hallinan James Jesse sophomore
Monika Hellwig sociology professor Student Union treasurer on the social scene
executive director, on the death of Father on the student body at Notre Dame
Association of Catholic 

Richard McCormick presidential election
Colleges and Universities 
Compiled from U-Wlre reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Police storm U. Wisconsin anti-sweatshop sit-in 
MADISON, Wis. 
togPther with U-locks around their 
The University of Wisconsin­necks. Madison's lates·t round of anti­By the time police entered the sweatshop labor protests culminated building, nearly 70 protesters wcrn in an 89-hour sit-in in Chancellor waiting for them in Ward's office David Ward's Basr.om Hall off'ic:r, singing "We Shall Overcome." While tlrn.t was forcibly disbanded narly six officers secured the adjacent lec­Sunday morning. ture hall, two others entered the 
At :3:50 a.m., over 40 University office and the remainder secured the polic.e officers, Da1rn County Slrnril'f"s rest of the wing. deputies and Madison police of!icfirs At that point, police gave the
ference or personal dang(lf as they
began massing in the parking lot demonstrators live rnin.utes to evac­
go about their bt1siness .. These
behind Bascom llall. The officers uate before they would start arrest­
problems did develop. They had to
won> gas masks anrl dressed in full ing people.
end."

riot gear, some carrying tear gas With less than one minute left in
Sleeping protr,str.rs ,.vern jolted
canisters and pepper spray. Neither tlrnir ultimatum. the protesters
awake by others who had stayed up
agent was used over the course of began rhythmically r.lapping. One
to serve as guards. Within minutes.
the morning. protesl!\r shouted, "We are beauti­
while police officers assembled, the
"I authorized this action." Ward ful, and we are right!"
protesters had moved themselves
said in a statement Sunday. "l did so At 4:13 a.m.. one of the officers
into Ward's ol'fic:P-. Seven of the
because it is my responsibility to called out. "The time period has
demonstrators closest to the office's 
ensure th,tt students, faculty ctnd expired. Everyone remaining in the
front door chained themselves
staff do not face intimidation. inter-building is now under arrest." 
Dartmouth prof quits class over scandal 
HANOVEH. N.H. 
In the wake of the chealing scandal in a computer sci­ence course. visiting professor Hex Dwyer announced Friday he will no longer be teaching the class after stu­dents -reported that he stormed out of class on Friday afternoon. Dwyer also wrote in an email message to the class that he has identified approximately 40 alleged cheaters. Dwyer wrote that ho had accepted an offer by the chair of the computer sr.ience department to stop tear.hing the class, citing personal difficulty in acting fairly to the majority or the class that did not allegedly cheat. "I apologize for the difticulty I've had lately keep­ing in mind the interests of the 75-80 percent of you who have behaved honorably during the course of the term," he wrote. He wrote in the message that he would be turning in "slightly more than 40 names" to the adminis­tration. The computer science chair said that he dis­cussed with Dwyer the possibility of' Dvvyr,r leaving the class on Fridav afternoon. This is the second dass thiit Dwyer has ce,tsed to teach. For the most part, students contacted by Dartmouth's student newspaper were crit­ical of' Dwyer's handling of' the course l'rom the begin­

Sit-in ends as U. Michigan joins WRC 
ANN ARBOH, Mich. 

Members of the Univr,rsity of Michigan's Students Organizing for Labor and Economic Equality evacu­ated Oean Shirley Neuman's office Friday after the University's president agreed to membership in the Worker Rights Consortium on a conditional basis. The agreement is being treated with guarded enthu­siasm by some in the anti-sweatshop movement. who are curious to see how the University will define the conditions of its membership. The WHC is a policy developed by students to enforce labor codes of conduct in the production of collegiate apparel. The University will join the organization wilh two other schools, Indiana University an{! the University of Wisconsin at Madison. In a written statement, the three universities have agreed to join the consortium "without endorsing all of the provi­sions stated in the preliminary charter of the WHC." Interim Coordinator of the WRC Maria Roper said the organization is "very excited" over the agree­ment. but called the statement released by the three schools "really vague." 
38 
49 
51 
55 
37 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend l<'orecast 
AccuWea1l1i.::r"llfore<.:t1s1 for <l~1y1imc conditirn1s i111d high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® to recast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 22. 
r•,.... 
H L 
Wednesday ~ 59 44 
! 
Thursday ~ 56 45 Friday C 57 42 
.. ' ' ' ' 
Saturday Q 52 37
' ... ''~ 

Pm,w,. 
® © D CJ CI]. Em. {)
. .

High Low Showe.rs Rain T~atorms FIUJflOI Snow '"" Sunny
Sunday /.~ 49 34
:~ ':, ..... 

VISASM!<C/Ml'JC'Pffll!I,
/~... ··\. 
~ ' ' Atlanta 65 45 Las Vegas 52 30 Baltimore 50 34 Memphis 69 53 Boston 42 34 Milwaukee 52 45

q_~,~qgQ(f~u 

Chicago 59 51 New York 47 38
Showers T-storms Ra,n F/u~;,es Snow Ice Sunny Pt. CIO<Jdy Clouriy 

Houston 75 65 Philadelphia 50 35
V,a Associettrd Press GmphksNet 


' Tuesday, February 22, 2000 CLC Murphy demands increased Council productivity 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

JOB TURNERrTneObserve, 

CLC members met Monday to discuss "housekeeping items" such as Council productivity, attendance policies and committee work. 
By HELENA RAYAM News Wrircr 
Student body president Mirah Murphy called for morn productivity f'rom the Campus Life Council during its meeting Monday. 
Addressing what Murphy called "housekeeping items," he suggested that members ask the question, "What are we really doing here'?" 
According t.o the CLC's mis­sion, the council is comprised of student leaders. faculty. administration and rectors who meet collectively every other week and have commit­tee mcelings during the week to discuss specific UnivP-rsity matters. Murphy challenged tho CLC not to limit its meet­ings to discussion. but to con­tinue to act through committee work and by µassing resolu­tions. 
",\ bunch ol' words without actions isn't really doing any­thing," said Murphy, "I don't want to see us slow down." 
Murphy reviewed some of the CLC's top issues for the year including binge drinking. eating disorders, diversity, 24­hour space and a clarification of' the student appeal pror.ess. Murphy introduced additional issues that dealt with "improv­ing daily life" on campus. He mentioned upper class tutor­ing, bike racks and making more use of campus technolo­gy. 

Assistant vice president of l{esidence Life William Kirk added, "We've had some good efforts from this group, but we can do a wholP. lot more." 
The CLC specifically dis­cussed problems with its attendance policy. Hecause members serve on other University committees and organizations, perfect CLC attendance is not possible for all members. Murphy and oth­ers also stressed the need for members to be present at CLC meetings. 
"Let's just kind of get back to the heart of why we're here," Murphy said. 
In other CLC news 
. CLC members approved a resolution requesting that a studtrnt member be on the University Advisory Committee on the Disabled. Although in the past. studP.nts have bP.en on the committee, the CLC wants to make a permanent student position. 
"I really support their idea to have student representation," said professor Edward Manier. 
. Because of recent prob­lems with the student body presidential elections, Murphy and Judicial Council president Kelly Folks want to form a cornmittP.P. to address prob­lems in the election bylaws. 
"My goal is to clarify the bylaws so that we won't have some of' tlrn problmns that we had during this election." said Polks, adding that the new committee will meet during the next two weeks. The cur­rent Senate will still be in ses­sion to approve any new bylaws. 
. 
The Academic Committee will suggest professors be allowed to scan the NDAccess I-Drives for copies of old tests. Professors should be awarn of test files and decide whether to permit the use of tests, the committee reported. 

. 
Murphy suggested the CLC look into a past resolution about the consistency of pari­etals across campus during Junior Parents' Weekend. Parietals were not equally enforced last weekend, he said. 

. 
The Gender Relations Committee will bring its 24­hour space resolution back to the floor after it receives feed­back from rectors and hall monitors. 


Trustees approve SMC renovations 

.. 
C 
cu 
E 
>a 
0 I
-~ 
E ·­
cu
.. a.., ., ; 
C ._ a, 0 'CS a. 
:I a. 
.. 0 
in 
3 
cu 
z 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
Information Desk & Box Office 
Bookkeeping/Accounting Student Assistant Needed 
Responsibilities include preparation of daily deposits arid reconciliations. 
Position open to current Sophomores & Juniors. Business Majors preferred, but not required. Must be detail oriented, have an upbeat attitude and be flexible in scheduling. 
Applications available outside the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune. 
Application deadline Friday, Feb. 25. 
(Position will start training in March) 
www.nd.edu/~sao/ 
By MOLLY MCVOY News Writer 
The Saint Marv's Board of Truslees approved plans for reno­vations to Dalloways Coffeehouse. the Welcome Center and Regina lfall at last weRkcnd's meeting. 
'Tm very excited about the prospect of moving forward Lwith Dallowaysl." said Keith Dennis. vice president of Finance and Administration. 
The board approved using money from the College's Plant fund to finance Regina renovations. The fund was begun years ago, and money has been put aside for build­ing rnnovations and improvements. 
As part of the approval of the Dallowavs Coffeehouse, the board said the ·proposed cost of $600,000 must decrease before construction will begin. The College could not release the amount suggested by board members. 
Dennis explained that although it is a significant amount, the College has already begun discussions with Ziolkowski Construr.tion about how ments in technology and the athletic to lower the figure. program. Members also discussed 

"l think we'll have it nailed down the need for more meal plan by the end of the week," Dennis options, a big sister/big brother pro­said. "When we get it down to a gram and more job fairs on cam­reasonable budget. the board has pus. authorized us to go ahead." "We walked out of there with a 
The Welcome Center was very good feeling," senior class approved as pre­president Anne sented. Pangilinan said.
"I'm very excited about 
A student "We thought the
the prospect of
panel also board was very addressed the moving forward attentive. They board about stu­took us very seri­
[with Dalloways]." 
dent life. Board ously." members asked Eldred was very questions of cur­Keith Dennis pleased with the rent students. vice president of Finance and outcome of the 
"[The board] student group as
Administration 
was really open­well. minded," said "It really turned Penelope Kistka, a senior and mem­out to be a dialogue between the ber of the panel. "You go to school students and the board," she said. here so long and get so involved, The board also was presented but you never get to meet the peo­with a preliminary budget for next ple who are behind the scenes." year as well as information about 
The student panel discussed posi­how the changing costs of a Saint tive and negative aspects of life at Mary's education will affect the Saint Mary's. It covered improve-school next year. 

When should you apply for Financial Aid for the 2000/2001 school year? 
C: At some point D: Later 
The priority deadline is approaching. Need to use a lifeline? The Financial Aid Office is available as your phone-a-friend. So what will be your FINAL ANSWER? 
FAFSA and PROFILE Applications are due to the processing centers by the following dates: 
NOTRE DAME: February 28, 2000 SAINT MARY'S: March 1, 2000 

L[feSt-e;p~ 
"It's not just about eating. It's about what triggers your eating and what choices you can make when confronted with those situations. We also examined the role and importance of physical activity. The hands-on activities, the sensible informationin the notebook and the availability of a dietjtian combine into a program that works. The message ofthe program was that the "little" changes will make.a difference and they did for me. I highly recommend the LifeSteps program:' 
·:Y#JPast Program Participant 
•Tuesdays, February 22 -May 2 
•2 consultations with a dietitian •12:10 -12:50, RSRC •$120 ($25 refund based on attendance) 
•Contact Jennie @ 1-5965 or Jessica @ 1-5829 for more information. 
•.,.::

R~~z+=­
Tuesday, February 22, 2000

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC 01eets candidates for class councils, diversity board 
move on important issues this year. 
Th() forth ticket, led by prPsi­"We should encourage stu­di>n ti al ('/tndidale Jen dents to join in activities llackbush, would also like to plamwd by the board," Karen imp!Pnrnnt a sophomore class lliglny, who is running for lock-in next year. llowevPr, treasurer wilh llackbnsh. the ticket would Ii kc th<' event Matha and her runningmatP.s to bendit a charity. Tlw tiek<'L -Kim Jensen, Kristie Maurer vvould also like to havP opnn and Molly O'Shea -agreed. board meetings and a more "We~ can"t turn away from in formativn class ncwslettc r. othm·s· ideas." said Jensen, the with its ma.in objn<:tiv<' being ticket's vice-presidPntial can­to bring tlw board closer to tbe didatl'. Class of ~O(H. The ti1·kets also agreed that 
"We can come in with a bct­leadership ,\·as an important te r out look, wn saw what part of' building community. went wrong and right this "I wanted to run and gel year," said llackbush. involvnd. As a member of BOG. 
All candidatfls agrnnd that I was able to listen to the r.lass unity was one or the most r.lass," said Pace. 
BIG EAST TOURNAMENT 
March 10-11, 2000 
Included Features I-night at The Holiday Inn Broadway Tickets to SEMI FINALS (3.10) &FINALS (3.11) at Madison Square Garden, New York City Full American breakfast at the hotel Admission to the Empire State Building All taxes &service charges DAITCO Representative 
I I
Cost Per Person $259 Double $349 Single Child w/2-adults $159 
Additional night(s) available upon reQUest-I 
For Information & Reservations DAITCO TOUR & TRAVEL 583 South Street, New Britain, CT 06051 
1-800-229-4879, ext. 600 
By NICOLE HADDAD 
N-.."W:-. \'vrircr 
i\fomb!'rs of lh1' Salnl l'vlat-y' s community wPre givf'n the opportunity to meet each dass·s presidential 1·andi<lates as well as candidates l'or the Diversity Board during LhP Meet the Candidates session Monday. 
Bnfore opPning tlw floor to questions from students. can­did atl's answered quf\stions genPrated by thP Board ol' Govf'rnanr(' 
Diversity Board 

Monday night's s<'ssion start­ed with the candidates for the Student Diversitv Board. which was approved by the Board of' Governance two weeks a.go. 
This will be the diversity board's inaugural ekction. 
"Not evervon(' who a.tw11ds Saint Marv;s is Catholic .. 1,\·orki;1g with campus ministry ,\'P hope to work with people and make more peoplP lb)] at home." said Jessica Delgado. who is running for vice-presi­den t of the· board with Akmaral Omarova Omarova and Delgado also expandt>d on their ideas for social and cul­tural events. 
"[We want to] try to bring in more diversitv in terms of intellectual speakers on cam­pus. we need to get more peo­ple here to educate us. For example. lwe want to] bring in someone who will teach us to African dance. something that will educate us and be f'un fat the same time!," said Omarova. 
Nikki Gonzalez and Andrea Romero, also running together for the diversity board. said thev want to increase the number of' multicultural stu­dents on campus. They pro­posed having multicultural students on campus make recruiting calls to prospective multicultural stud(rnts to encourage them to come to Saint Marv's. 
The thi;d pair of candidates running for the Diversity Board is Katie Poynter and Julie Frischkorn. The first issue they disr:ussed was lhe anti-discrimination rlause in their platform. 
"There first needs to be a way to spread the word that la anti-discrimination dause] does not exist .... We 
want people Lo know Saint Mary's is a diverse campus," said Frischkorn. 
"If all of us do our jobs effectively, the divPrsitv will come to us," said PoyntPrand. 
All six candidates also offen~d their own definitions o!" diversi­ty. 
"Diversity to me is a lot of everything that makes up sr>mnthing. Earll of us 11111.kes up Saint Marv's. WP hold a signifir'ant part lo Pach othnr.·· said Delgado. 
Class of 2001 

Onlv 01m ticket, led by p1:tesid('ntial hopn­ful ,\utumn Palacz, is running for thf~ class of' 2001 's class coun­
cil. That ticket's ideas are to create a senior dass mural in th('. tunnnl system. to gen­ciratc crciativc l'undra.ising activities to rnduce Lh!~ cost of' the S1~nior Formal and to int'-reasP studPnt involv!!llH'llt in communitv sPrvk<'. 
"\Ve ll('c·d lo lcav1.· an imprnssion of our ,ixperiencP,.. said Alyson Lnatlrnrman. who is running f'or tn\asurl~r. Some or thnir significant contribu­tions to their dass this voar have been tlw monthly sei·vicc P v P n ts . in c III d in g tlw t\ Ill S walk. 
"This gives juniors tliP opportunity to re1tl'h out to tht' communitv.·· said Julia Makzynski: tho vier-presiden­tial rnndidatP. 
Class of 2002 
Candidates for thn dass of 2002's council had the oppor­tunity to PXplain specific of their respective. 
Presidential candidate Katy Robinson spokl' of her ticket's proposed support group. 
"[Tho group would act] as a youth group that rt'aclws out to tlrn class and IPts th1\ people know that. thnr11 are others who want to listen to you. It's a wav for the class to inter­act," i~obinson said. 
Presidential candidatr. Abeer Zayed suggested a trip to Windsor, but emphasized that the trip would not promote underage drinking. 
"It's not a traditional activi­ty. rather a way to show stu­dents a new culture," said one or Zayed's runningmates, vice­presidential candidate Kristen Wojtas. 
Presidential candidate Erin Callahan and her running­mates suggested a Big Sister/Little Sister program. 
"This would be implemented with children in the communi­ty allowing students to devise groups to take on a child and sponsor activities," Callahan said. 
Another ticket. led by presi­dential candidate Katy Robinson, suggested a Woman's Survival Day with the motto "Teaching women everything they're not sup­
was v0ry important, 
"We all have dil'forent inter­«'sts, and through the different dcpartnrnnts. wn igniLD c.hange through c-ommunication," Wojtas said 
Class of 2003 
M0Pt t!w Candiclat!ls contin­UEd with the ca11didat1os run­ning-for the Class of 2003's !'lass counril answering ques­tions about their platforms. 
Presidential candidate Stephani,, l'acc said that her Lickd's !lXporicncn givns it an PdgP over its opponents. 
"\Ve know the pco1ilc, we know how to run the board. I think our cxperi1mr.e rrom this year will lrn!p us nt>xt yPar and the years to com(\. The knowlodgt-) we have this Vf'ar l'rom working on the board will hPlp our c.lass lake a step for­ward... said Alison Joseph, running for vice president with Pace. 
Presidential r.andidate Kristen Matha said her ticket's strength rested in its diversity. Matha would like to implement the Sober Sisters pro­gram, increase attendance at the sporting events and start a sopho­mo rc spirit dub and spirit week. 
Presidential candidatn Katie Vinccr, however, discussed her ticket's ideas of having a class trip. T-sbirt and lock-in. 
"Within this 
lock-in w11 will 
bring different 
posed to know." Topics would bands in and include self-defense and have baskPtball changing a tire. games. P-retty
•·we want to celebrate our much just to women's collegP and rec:ognize bring thr class that we are in a vacuum," said together." said Mandy-Schomas, running for Vincer. "It's time secretary on the Robinson for a chang('. It's ticket. time to become 
The class of 2002 tickets part of a class. agreed that communication We' re ready to 




St.Ed',/Wat:.,k GlUIU! Wtdck ilt Wabk 1sMCltteid 7~11{ S~6'1ie.d/PW Sew Titwitl iu. S~b'tied 
fflo.t'timy/l-fowaltd/£ym .£-11 fa~e!UUlZa ~e.e.d fU<d OIU!W .fu6m 7~111-mIKD.1tll.4ae'.f -PE Sl«IW Pfl'lhJ 3-5(>11t D!lf6ilk PE 
fOJt(ey ~ilt 1)itWl6itg, Jwi,..Audifu'ttW!l. 7~nt 
Yu~'o fl(U Vwoeu ~~ CCUfJ 
Pt!ftt Uitto't i1tu a~pelizt>Jt nit fuaeu ~e't uupei ci«Jt1uJ Ckwe fltU ~ 'Beauit 'BDW! Go.h 'BWtt ha wifk ftU¢ GfUJ g~ 
featuring 
Nancy Lesh-Cello 
accompanied hy 
Phil Hollenbeck-Pakhawaj Friday, Fehruary 25, 2000 
7:30 p.m. 
at the Auditorimn, Hesburgh Center for International Studies, Univen,ity of Notre Daine 
Sponimrt•d by: The India Association of ;\lott't~ Dame & Offfrc of International Stwlt~nt Affairs The A~ian Indian Cla~siral Music Society of 1\,Jichiana Tiu~ Joan B. Kroc Institute for lntl"rnational Peace StudieH 
ND/SMC Faculty & Staff: $5 Students: Free Contact: Amitava Dutt (631-7594; 273-0928) 


orld 


Tuesday, February 22, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
China threatens Taiwan with attack over unification 
BEIJING 

With a month to go in Taiwan's presidential rlcction campaign. China warned Monday that it might attack the island if Taiwanese leaders indp,finitely refuse to talk unification. The threat, delivered in a policy paper from China'!.-i cabinet. was intendPd to increase the pressurr on Taiwan's throe presidential can­didatf'S. Although them was no immediate reaction l'rom Taiwan's government or the candidatrs' camps, policy toward China has bern at thc1 renter of the campaign. which nnds March 18. Already this month, China sailod its newly acquired, heavily armed Hussian-built destroyer through the Taiwan Strait. Additionally, Chinese President Jiang Zemin toured military bases over the weekend in southern China that would be the ones-used in any invasion of Taiwan. the Hong Kong media n'p(irted. 
Irradiated meat arrives in markets after food rules change 
WASIIINGTON 

Ground beef that's been zapped to kill deadly bacteria could start showing up in supermarkets next month. New rules tbat allow the irradiation of raw beef. pork and lamb take effect Tuesdav. To its advocates, irradiation could be (;ne of the biggest advancements in food safoty since the pas­teurization of milk. The question is whether consumers want it. "Most people are ready. They arc sick and tired of hearing of cases of food-borne outbreaks," said Christine Bruhn, director of the Center for Consumer Research at the University ol' California-Davis. Most meatpackers intend to start small. testing irradiated ground beef in select markets to see how it sells. 
Pope's pilgrimage to Egypt will be religious, political 
CAIRO 

Popo John Paul ll's visit to Egypt is in many ways a personal pilgrimage, but it will also focus attPntion on sectarian tensions in a country where politics and religion ol'ten mix in volatile ways. "We cannot deny that there will bi' a political aspect," Egyptian Catholic Bishop Youhanna Kolta said Monday at a news conference called to outline the pope's three-day visit. "llis holiness is aiming to make his visit lo Egypt a spiritual journey, a pilgrimage," the bishop said. "The political side is to strengthen relations with the Egyptians here. with the Coptic Orthodox Church and with the Muslims." 
lfiititliM.MI
Dow AMEx: 
931.96 

JONES ·5·50 Nasdaq:
-295.05 

4411.74 
-137.18 
NYSE: 
586.67 
-1.J.59 

S&P 500: Composite 1346.09 
Volume:

10219.52 l,25:i,043.7@
-42 17 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMP~Y TICICBR '% CHAf•/G• I CILWGB PRICB 
VERTICA.l. COKPUT  VCB'l  +.25.1!17  t-0. 5200  l. 51  
Mit:il.OSOPT CORP ORA.CL£ CORP  MSPT O:RCL  -•. 58 -.f. .91  _,. 5'50 -l.o,so  95.0,6 58. 5'6  
DELL COMPUTER IN'l"2L C'OR.P  DELL INTC  -1. 54 _, .20  ..-0.6215 _,. 6200  4,Q,06 lOS.18  
'J'BCHNICLOlif.B COi.  'fCLN  .. 37 .oo  +.:.1.2200  e.a:a  
GLOBAL CROSSING  vBLX  -H •.22  ... &.6:8.2S  S2. J.8  
QUA!.COMM '.!:NC crsco St"sTE.NB  QCO• csco  +l. fEi -3 .59  .,. sooo -,. 6,oo  1:u.so 115.81  
JlfCl WOFl.i,,DcON Ill  ..,ON  -&.36  -1. noo  U.1l  

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVEH WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
YUGOSLAVIA 


Associated Press 
KOSOVSKA MITROVICA 
French and British troops fired tear gas to push back thousands of ethnic Albanians trying to force their way across a bridge into the Serb-con­trolled side of this ethnically divided city. 
Up to 4,000 Serbs were waiting on the north side of the bridge, deter­mined to battle the Albanians them­selves to keep them from entering their part of this northwestern Kosovo industrial city. · 
The Albanian crowd, numbering between 6,000 and 10,000, managed to breach French positions on the 

approach to the bridge over the !bar River, and more French troops rushed to the bridge and began firing volleys of tear gas in five-minute intervals. 
British troops blocked the bridge with armored vehicles and pushed away ethnk Albanian men who tried to climb over the vehicles. 
By the 6 p.m. start of a daily 12­hour curfew, crowds on both sides were dispersing. 
In a sign that the Serbs were pre­pared for a showdown, some Serb women and children began evacuat­ing the city, and a local Serb leader, Nikola Kabasic, told a Belgrade radio station that the Serbs were bringing in reinforcements from neighboring villages to defend their part of the city if NATO cannot control the Albanians. 
No American troops were involved in the scuffles at the bridge. On Sunday, U.S. troops taking part in a weapons search in the Serb part of the city withdrew to the ethnic Albanian south bank after Serbs pell­ed them with stones. 
The commander of the embattled, NATO-led Kosovo Force, German Gen. Klaus Reinhardt, congratulated the troops for showing restraint in the face of escalating tensions, which threaten to engulf this city and per­haps the entire province in a nr,w round of bloodletting. 
80,000 protest U. S. Navy in San Juan 
doncd off by hundreds of Archbishop Roberto Navy and does not con­
Associated Press 

police officers. Gonzalez Nieves. "It is a sig­tribute to the serious work SAN JUAN 
Called by top religious naI o! hope and confi­that Gov. Rosse!lo has done Summoned by Puerto leaders, including the dence. to obtain the Navy's exit," Rico's top religious leaders, 
heads of Puerto Rico's Organizers depicted the said House speaker Edison more than 80,000 people 
Catholic and Methodist protest as nonpolitical, Misla Aldarondo. staged one of the biggest churches, the "Peace for though many members of Clinton and Hosscllo demonstrations in years Viequcs" march repudiated this U.S. territory's tiny agreed last month to allow here Monday to protest the an agreement between Independence Party partic­the Navy to resume limited planned resumption of U.S. Gov. Pedro Hossello and ipated. training using inert bombs. 
Navy training on the •island 

President Clinton to Church leaders' increas­The pact calls for a refer­ofVieques. resume limited training on ing involvement in anti­endum. likely to be held in 
Carrying banners bearing Vieques, the Navy's prize Navy protests has angered 2001, that will give Vieques the portrait of Jesus and Atlantic fleet bombing many pro-statehood politi­residents two choices. reading, "We Want Peace,"' range. Police Chief Pedro cians here. They fear the One will allow the Navy along with red, white and Toledo estimated the protests could harm efforts to resume use of the range blue Puerto Rican l1ags, the crowd at 85,000. to make Puerto Rico -on its own terms -includ­protesters staged a silent "We are showing the recipient of $11 billion in ing the use of live bombs. march along a one-mile consensus in Puerto Rico's federal funds annually -They may also require the stretch of San Juan's Las heart in favor of peace and the 51st U.S. state. Navy to cease all training Americas Expressway, cor-justice," said San Juan "lt is anti-American, anti-by May 1, 2003. 

i-­
! page 6
===========================================T,~'h~e~O~b~se~r~ve~r~.~C~A~M~P~U~S~N~E~W~~S=========================Tl~u~e~sd~a~y,~F~e~b~ru~agry~2~2~,;2~0~00 
Latina 
continued from page 1 
other Latina students. adjusting to college lire at Saint Mary's was no easy task. 
"Because I didn't have any of my family or friends here. I would get more homesick because I would keep going home. I f e I t 
a Ione," rllach tlrn
"Because I didn't have 
additional money for these 

s a i d needs of 
people which in some cases
any ofmy family or

sopho­students of 
amounts to several hundred 

m o r e friends here, I would get diversity. 
dollars through

Jessica more homesick and keep T h e 
credits. Now

Delgado. Diversi_ty 
that's a good
going home. I felt alone." 

"We want the students to
"Saint Board is 
a time
way to make

Mary's onP or thn 
someone's dav.'' know the ins and outs of for them 
offers me Jessica Delgado big thingi; 
to give
Last y,~ar, ttrn the tax form. We want
the col­S it i 11 t 
bad to
sophomore 
program l"iled

l e g e experi­ence I've always dreamed about -but it was not handed to me on a silver platter. I had to go out and look for it." 
Joining La Fuerza and other campus organizations, allowed her to prove her strength and courage. Delgado said. 
Opportunities for minority students to feel more a part of the Saint Mary's commu­nity indude a special orien­tation meeting for interna­tional students. specific eth­nic clubs and the wide range of leadership opportu­nities. 
"At Saint Mary's. we have really worked lOward giving our students the best oppor­tunities we can. If they make the effort to reach out, someone will be there to hold their hand." said Oropeza. 
"This college has done an excellent job of making me feel like Saint Mary's is my home awav from home " said Delgado. "My seco~d semester I became more involved with !the Hispanic student organization] La Fuerza and then I started becoming bett<1r friends 
Election 
continued from page l 
porter. campaigrwd on bdmlf of the pair on an election dav. Thesf' violations Wf're wh~Lt llanovr1r/Micck intended to 
appeal, but thP candi­d a t e s changed t Ii t' i r minds over thP weekend. deciding not to draw out the elf'r­t i o n process any fur­tlrnr. 
"This i s n l 
about all ltlw violationsl." Micek said. "\-Ve want to make it known that Wt' want this to end. and wP think tlw student body is crying out l'or this to fmd." 
With tlw election having 
"Brooke and I are really happy now that we have the opportunity to go full­steam straight ahead and work to make Our Lady's University a better place." 
Brian O'Donoghue student body president elect 
lOam to end 

DART wilt be available for summer registration from March 22 to June 23. Students tlw nleclion. onf' tlrnt th(i\' 
may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period·
:J
foared was aliPnating th:, 

no appointment times are necessary. ' 
VPry studrmts thny were hop­ing to reprnsent. 
(f) 

Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the first day of "It was a vPrv dilfo:ult dnr:i­
the course. Students who decide to register after DART closes on Friday, June 23 
sion." l'natP sa(d. 

must complete the standard summer session application/course selection form. 
them to be aware ofall
Mary's will 

the com­
nearly 3.000 tax
bold on to." 

returns. Many the credits they may be munity
W hi I e 

that they
customers able to get additional
students 

h a v e
return eve·ry 

money for these people
have noticed these progros­

become
y e a r .
sive changes. some said they 

which in some cases a part of
Throughout the
did not agree with the valid­

during
years. the pro­amounts to several
ity of the ·magazine ranking. 

t h e i r
gram has 

hundred dollars
"I was very surprised," 

lime at
become popular
said senior Rocio B.odriguez. 

with residents of though credits. " S a i n t 
"I can'l say they've made a 

Mary's
the community
lot of prngress. I've strnn 

or Notre
and students. 

Claude Renshaw 
changes in the expansion of 

Dame."
"The fact th at
Multicultural Affairs. but I 

Saint Mary's
we do as many Saint 
do not agree that Saint 

program coordinator Mary's 
Board of Trustees." 

0 f n o t r e dame
Hernandez said. 

JUNE 19 -AUGUST 4, 2000 
vote. how<'v­

english 
er. 

trench
Thursday n i g h t . I lanovcr and 
L
Micek said they would appeal. and 
Q)
campaign managrr llan P1iate had pm-pared an 
Eappeal docu­nwnt. which was Pxprct­ed to bo fil()d Mondav. But 
Einstead. thP 

to year. this year a record 90 students are taking part. Students generally volunteer to work one three-hour shift per week at any of five South Bend locations. Although times and days vary form cen­ter to center, the program operates Monday through Saturday from Feb. 12 through April 15. 
"The primary motivation for a lot of the students to partic­ipate is that they are looking to go in to the professions of accounting or l'inance and this is an opportunity for them to get real-world experience," s a i d Mi Ian i. "It's also 
senior 
acco u n l-
i n g major Kim Jakob participated in the tax assistance program last year and felt the opportu­nity provided her with a solid background to prepare her for doing tax work after gradua­tion. Although Jakob is not participating in thf~ program this year. she is assisting for­mer clients she helped last year with their taxes. 
"In class, we learned dif'fer­ent situations we could encounter but I got the real gist of different tax situations that could occur when I was 
The '2000 summer session will begin on Monday, June 19 (enrollment) and end on Wednesday, August 2 (final exams). Some courses -primarily in science and languages -will begin and end before or after these dates. The summer session Bulletin contains complete schedule information. The Bulletin is available at the Summer Session Office (51 OMain Bldg.) beginning on Thursday, February 10. Information on summer courses, as it appears in the Bulletin, is also available at the summer session Web site 
(http:/ /www.nd.edu/-sumsess/). 
Notre Dame continuing students ­undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 2000 who are eligible to return in the fall ­must use DART 1) to register for summer courses and 2) to add or drop courses through Friday, June 23. The DART PIN (personal identification number) for summer will be sent to al1 continuing students in early March. Course call numbers, along with all other course information, is published in the Bulletin and at the Web site. 
doing this for real." said Jakob. "I appreciated the interaction with clients and trying to figure out what they've done throughout the year and helping them deter­mine if they are in a situation to receive tax credits. or in some cases, penalties." 
Jennifer Mulsoff. a Saint Mary's junior accounting and finance major, said her expe­rience with the program this year has allowed her to apply what she learned in the class­room to real-world tax situa­tions. 
"It's a challenging and rnwarding experience. This is something I may want to do after graduation, so I thought it would be good to get involved early," said Mulsoff. "It is definitely good training to be able to work hands on with people from the commu­nity. WR have people from the community who come in and do11't have a clue about how to do their taxes. 
"They lay out all their paper work in front of us and we go through it all with them. When they find out they are getting money back, they are always so happy." 
Students generally work in pairs and at most locations, a Certified Public Accountant is on hand to assist if questions or situations arise that the students are unsure of how to tackle. 
Mulsoff, who works on Saturday mornings for three hours at the Mishawaka Library, saw the popularity of the program the first day she volunteered. 
"We arrived early that Saturday because it was the first we were volunteering," she said. "We arrived at 9 
a.m. and didn't open until 
9:30 a.m .. but there was already a line outside the doors. We had at !Past 30 peo­ple waiting in line that first Saturday." 
with the Latinas on campus. I started going to Spanish Mass. participating in more multicultura.l events and beginning to feel more at home." 
Delgado said she is glad to see a significant expansion of Multicultural Affairs. 
"Saint Mary's now offers more opportunities such as bilingual Masses," said Delgado. "They are also making an effort to 
Taxes 
continued from page 1 
and professor of business administration, said thorough training is essential for stu­dents. 
'"We want the students to 
know the ins and outs of the 
tax form," said Henshaw. "We 
want them to br aware of' all 
the credits that are available 
so they may be 11.ble to get 
Mary's has an outstanding representation of faculty and administration. I don't know of any Hispanic pro­fessors except in the lan­guage department. However. with the incrnase in Hispanic students. I can see the dedication from fac­ulty. They are more open to what they need to do to get more students." 
Hernandez said she hopes that there will be even more diversity at the College in the future, including a more divtirse faculty. 
"I hope in 10 years when I return to visit Saint Mary's, I will see more diversity in all as peets of the college, including the glass case that holds the photographs of the returns as we do indicates we have a lot of credibility in the community," said Milani. "They are aware that we have competent individuals that we arc sending out to assist them." 
Above all. 1:rndibility is cru­cial, said Milani. 
I tell the students that they can be compassionate, caring and concerned, but if they are not competent, that creates real problems for us," said Milani. 
Although the number of stu­dents who participate in the program fluctuates from year 

german government history International relations italian japanese mathematics music philosophy physics psychology spanish sociology theology 
bctm !"orf'eited. the actual vote tallies were never rPleased. so almost no onr knows who would havr rmeq{Pd victori­ous if thP Eb:tion Commitl()!' had beon overturnrd. o·nonoghun/Norton won tlw primary el(\Ction Monday. Feb. 14 by ninl\ percnnt ol' tlw 

anthropology art biology business chemistry 
economics engineering 

Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans wdl be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 2000 will be $232 per credit hour plus a $40 general fee. 
. ·--­

Tuesday, f-ebruary 22, 2000 The Oburver . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
RUSSIA 
Moscow vows to coillplete war against Chechen rebels 
Associatetl Press 
"v!OZDOK 

Waves of' Hussian bombers on Monday slarnmPd thn nntrancr to a gorgr wh1~rn thousands of" Clwclwn 11ghttirs an• h{,lpcl up. while Moscow promised to prnss the offcn­sivP until thP last r11b(~l is wipPd out. 
Jt>ts roared off i.n pairs l'rom Mozdok. thP main Hussian mil­itary basr near Che,r-hnya A Hussian mi Ii ta ry o!Ticer. spf•aking on condition of ilnonymity, said th1\,bombnrs wn ni striking Lh P so-(, all 1• d Woll"s Cat1•s. al llw mouth of' llw ,\rgun Corgi'. 
Sergei Yastrzlrnmbsky. the Hussian prnsidcintial aide in clmrgP of the Kn,mlin's int'or• rnation campaign on Chnchnya said up to 4,500 rebels are in thn gorge. 
"ThP gunnH1n are totally blocked there, and the block­adP is gradually tightening," hi' said. Acting PrnsidPnl Vladimir Putin said Ll11· olTcn­siw would rnntinu1' until the rnb1•ls ,tr!' annihil.ttnd. 
Tlw war "will bP brought lo 
its logical r.nd," when thcrP 
,HP no militants lPft in 
Chechnva and the small n~publir 0 is brought back under Moscow's control. hr. said at a military awards ceremony in the Kremlin. 
SincP-rebels t'lcd the Chi\rhr,n capital Grozny en massr. in Parly FBbruary. Hussia ha.s focused its offen­sive on the southern moun­tains. 
The Argun 
March 26 Hussian presidential elections. 
Putin already is far ahead of his challengers in pre-election opinion polls and ending the war before the voting could substantially boost his sup­port. 
Putin's strong showing in the polls apparently is a reflection of wide approval of his tough 
handling of 
a.nd Vedeno the l'ive­
gorges cut "The gunmen are totally m on th -old 
deep into blocked there, and the war. the ster.p, Nonetheless.
blockade is gradually 
l'oggy moun-Russian 
tains and tightening. " authorities arc1 kev are clearly channels l'o1· concerned
Sergei Yastrzhembsky 
thC' rebels to about a rebel
Russian presidential aide
transport resurgence. equipment Rebel bands and rein-continue to forcements. mount spo-
Over the past week. Hussia radic raids on Hussian-held has redeployed many of its towns and officials have troops from olher parts of repeatedly said the rebels are Cherhnya to positions near the believed to be preparing wide mountains, preparing for a full attar.ks for Wednesday. assault Thal day is both the Russian 
/\ top Bussian military offi­Defender of the Fatherland cial said recently that the war holiday and the day that could bti over in a month, rais­Chechens commemorate the ing the possibility that its end bitter memories of thf1 1944 could como just before the mass-deportation of Chechens 

to Central Asia under Soviet rebels by reiterating Russia's dictator Josef Stalin. frequent refusal to hold nego­
Defense Minister Igor tiations with Maskhadov. Sergeyev, attending a Hussian In Grozny, Emergenr,y military parade in the Chechen Situations Ministry workers r,apital Grozny, said troops were burying bodies retrieved were try-from basements 
ing to encircle  'The main thing is not to  where most civil­ians hid during  
Chechen  let the bandits out ­ to  the Russian bom­ 
rebels in t h e Ar gun  finish them offin the areas where you have  bardment. Almost no civil­ians have been  
gorge to prevent  pushed them."  visible on the streets since the  
t f  h r  e m o m  Igor Sergeyev  military sealed the city and pro­ 
ambush­ defense minister  hibite d all  non­ 
ing feder­ military traffic  
a 1-he Id  until  at  least  
areas.  March 1.  

"The main thing is not to let Yastrzhembsky said the the bandits out -to finish city's civilian population had them off in the areas where plunged to just 9,883 people. you have pushed them," Since the blockade was Sergeyev said. imposed last week, 11,127 
Interior Minister Vladimir people have fled the Chechen Rushailo said Chechen capital, he said. President Asian Maskhadov Russia sent troops into and warlords Salman Raduyev Chechnya in September, after and Shami! Basayev were hid­Chechnya-based Islamic mili­ing out in the Argun gorge tants invaded Dagestan. The with rebels, the news agency Chechens also are blamed for !TAR-Tass reported. four apartment bombings in 
Rushailo underlined Putin's Russia in September that intention to wipe out the killed 300 people. 


For Delivery, call Delivery times 6pm 
Tomassito•s 


Offer valid on arq Tuesday of Spring Seineste~ 2000. Prices valid from 10;30am. Tueaday !llDrning until 1:OOam Wednesday morning. 

While high blood pressure may have no symptoms, it does have consequences. Like increasing your risk of heart attack and stroke. That's why you should ask your doctor to check your blood pressure and help you control it. Learn American Heart .,,; more at www.americanheart.org or Association. call 1-80O-AHA-USA1. Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
Notre Dame Film Television and Theatre presents 

Actors fro111 tl1P Lo11do11 Stagll
All's Well That Ends Well 
H  William  Shakespeare  
Sunday Matinee. February 20 .......... 2:30 pm  Thursday. February 24 ........................ 7:30 pm  
Wednesday. February 23 .................... 7:30 pm  Friday. February 25  ........................... 7:3U pm  

Saturday. February 26 .................. 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Students S12 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
The residency of Actors frnm ,he London Stage ,s sponsored. ,n part by :he Henkels L,cture Serres 
~~~ This Jetr.1t'; 1smane Pfli.l'!!Jie ·ri !!er:~;:~~ CJ~munir,.-F~~M.:!!,Jr. :! t11:i! J;j~D-: ~~::ri:.-r~u;r ::i~ 1~a1:i:-..! /\1'7S . *k~~ Cornm:!SiO:t.? :::A~ lg!nt:. ·:.1trt :-.m~s 1:~m :t!t ln~,;riJ Ger.~11 ~:e~:•·.-j1(:l f: ·:.:i.~::'.!l t~nc-:;:":~r.: ~r ::-i~ kl! 114(2~ 
= 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 22, 2000 
Historians rank Clinton last in 'moral authority' 
Associa1ed Pre,s 
WASl-llf'/(;T(JN 

Pr<'sidcnt Clinton rates 1war the top for managing the r('(momy and pursuin!{ <'qual justice. but dead last whnn measurPd for "moral authority." according to a rank­ing of pn's­id P nt.s bv !:i8 llisl<lri­ans. 
Overall 

Clinton

arnong 
presidents. Clinton comes across in the middle. 21st ()ut of 41 men who hav," occupi('d the Ov11,l Office. 
Two other presidents marked bv scandal -Hirhard Ni.xon and Warren !larding ­came in just aboV!' Clinton in the historians· vi<•w of moral IPadPrship. 
Thi' academics rated i\brabarn Lincoln, Franklin 0. Roosevelt, George Washington. Theodore Roosevelt and Harrv Truman 
as the best leaders over­all in a sur­vev r.onduct­ect' bv the cable ·public affairs televi­sion network C-SPAN. 
Historians from acrnss the political spectrum rated the 41 men who have served in the White Hous1\ on I 0 · 
"When today's headline writers cede influence to tomorrow's historians, the achievements ofthe president will prove quite remarkable in significance." 
Joel Johnson 
White House spokesman 

qualities. The acadPmics were ask ed to rank presidents using a scale of one to 10. 
with 10 being "very effective." 
Clinton rates 20th in crisis leadership: 21st in interna­tional relations: 21st in 
administrative skills: 22nd in 
v. · d ?1 t · perl'ii
1s1on: an _ s rn , r­
manr.e. 
His high sr.ores are in "pur­suing equal justice" (5th),
· ,,.,ti

economic management ,) 1,I and publir persuasion n1th); 
president's moral ranking, Johnson said time will LOil. 
"When today·s hcadlinP writrrs {'.Cdn influnncc to tomorrow·s historians, tile ud1i1!vements ol' lh1) president will provP quite remarkable in signil'ir.ancP," Johnson said. 
Hilted worst overall as Icad­
e rs were William llcnry 
Harrison (371, Warren {;. 
!larding t:~8l. Franklin Pierce 
(:19), Alldrew Jobuson 1401 
and Janws Buchanan (411. 
Honald Hcagan was rankt'd 1 l th ovnrall, Lhe high1\St of' presidents of the past 20 years. Georgn Bush came in 
at No. 20, Jimmv CartN at 22 and (;erald For<! 2'.~. Nixon. al No. 2G. was among those grouped toward the middl(i. Presidnnt Lyndon Johnson \.vas ranked 10th, Dwight l;isenhower was rankP-d 9th and John Kennrdv was ranked /Hh. " 
The historians inr.ludP prcs­identia l sper.ialists David Kennedy and Stephnn Ambrose. 
The survey was r.ondur.lcd in December and Januarv. It is not scientifir.. since it sim­
ply asked for the his­torians' subjective opinions. 
A sepa­rate survey. r.onducted through C­SPAN's web site in December. asked for public opin­i o n Viewers also placed Clint.on on 
the bottom for moral authori­ty. but otherwise rated Clinton more harshly than 
historians. 
Viewers rated Clinton as No. 
36 overall, with rankings below average for every catP­
gory except economic man­agement (19) and public per­suasion (15). 
The viewer survey is also unscientific, since it counted only those 1,145 viewors who 

his IOw srOres \VI' re in cO11 ___c_h_o_se_,_ll_J_P_a_r_t1_·c_io_a_t_e_.------, 
gressional relations (36th) and moral authority (4lstl. 
''President Clinton came into offir.e with a three-part strategy for the economy: f'is­r.al discipline. investing in people and opening markets abroad to benefit American workers," White House spokesman Jonl Johnson said Monday. "13y any measure. this has proved rnsoundingly successful." 
J\skfld spt\cifically about the 
LEADERS 
Full-time college student or graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post offer mental and physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com 

/ce B(akner. • • 
Happy 21st ! ! ! 
I hope you weren't too e~t,arrassed in c(ass +odav. Ac+uaUv, Yes I do. 
~ From a Guy in Big Trouble 

Nicotine Inay allay some diseases 
Assucia1ed Pre,s 
WASl IINC;TON 
Despite ils evil image. nmv research suggests thal nir.otine is a surprisingly potPnt drug !'or a vu.riely of diseases that afflict the brain, including Alzhl1imer•'s, Parkinson's and Tourctlc's syndrome. 
Many small studies over the past dcrndr: have explored tlrn possibll' lwriol1ts of this ubiqui­trnis drng. But the field appnars to b<i taking' on fresh life as doctors test nicotine patches l'nr nPurological dis­f\ases in bolh children and the elderly, and drug companies race to eoncoct nicotine substi­tutes tliat carry fewer sid1\ nffr.cts. 
At a conf'crcn('.n Monday, doi:Lors said tlrn field's first gold-standard study -one in which dummy treatments arc rigorously compared with tho rnnl thing -sug~ests thn paLch shows real promise in childrr.n with Tnurnltc's svn­dromc, a strange al'l1ictiori in which victims are beset by spatt>s of tics. shouted ohscf'ni­ties and violent urges. 
Still, nicoline has many drawbacks, including its unsa­vory reputation as the addic­tive grabber in cigarettes. Some experts belicvn nicotine's real future is in fakr. forms ol' the drug. 
"The probhim with nicotine is that it is nicotine. You're asking parents to pul their kids on nicotirrn," said Dr. Paul Sanberg of the University ol' South Florida, who has teslnd the drug on more than 100 young Tourctle's patients. 
Typically, doctors treat Tourntte's with Haldol, a pow­erful tranquilizer that is also used against sr.hizophrenia. In the latllst study, Sanberg and r.ollcagues combined nir.otine 

patr.hes and Haldol in 70 chil­dren. half ol' whom got dummy patches. 
Tim study found those on nicoline did better and were able lo control their symptoms with lower than usual dos1,s of IIaldol. "The data suggest that a low-dose nicotine patch may b1, useful in Tourr,ttr,'s syn­
d r o m 1~ , " s a i cl Sanberg. 
l In and others cxperi­rn,inting with nieo­t i n e described t h c i r resParch at a cont'nr­cncc in Washington s ponson)d 
"The problem with nicotine is that it is nicotine. You 're asking parents to put their kids on nicotine." 
Paul Sanberg Ph.D., University of South Florida 
by the American Association for tlrn Advanr.ement of Sr.ionce. 
Nicotine patclrns and gum are available in drugstores without prescriptions. They are intended to help smokers wean themselves oil' cigarettes. 
The researchers cautioned that smoking is a bad way to get medical nicotine. Besides the obvious canr.er risk, drug levels spike mur.h higher in r.igarettes. 
They also say more research is needed before nicotine patr.hes become routine to treat diseases. However, Sanberg said that if Tourette's patients cannot control their symptoms with standard 
· drugs, a low-dose patr.h might be worth trying. NicotinA has been testod for many years in small-scale experiments against Alzheimer's disease and more ror.ently against Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's causes 
tremors. rigid limbs and a shurfling walk, and like Alzheimer's, it may also msult in problems with mnmory and thinki11g. 
Dr. Paul Newhouse of the University of Vermont tried nicotine patches on 15 Parkinson's patienl'i. Although there was no comparison 
group, his pilot study suggested that nicotine substantially improved their move­ment and relieved their nrnntal diffi­culties. 
Newhouse also tP.sted a synthetic form of nico­tine, Abbott 
Laboratories' ABT-418. on six Alzheimer's patients. Despitli its small size, Newhouse said patients showed "a significant improvement in verbal learn­ing and memory'" on standard­ized tests. 
Since no drug firms havii exclusive rights to nir.otine, rcsearr.hcrs say companies have little interest in paying for studies to prove il'> health ben­efits. However, several am working on nicotine substitutes that can be patented. These drugs could be more prer.isely targeted against specific disor­ders. r.arry fewer side el'fer.ts and be available as pills rather than patches. 
Nicotine is thought to work by regulating the brain's levels of message-carrying chemir.als such as dopamine and acetyl­choline. Researchers say they see no sign that patients get hooked on the patr.h. The main side cffcr.ts arc nausea and itching around the patch. 


College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
Invites 
Nominations 
for 
the Father Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
B~th stu~ents and faculty are invited to submit nominations for this :years ':w":r?-. Please send your letter indicating what is special or s1gn1flcant about this instructor to: 
Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Wednesday, March l5t_, 2000 
Sheedy Award 
Tuesday, February 22, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
TANZANIA 
Mandela urges Burundi peace deal 
Associated rress 
AHUSIIA 

NPlson Mand1da issLl!'d a 
report rard Monday on tlw 
Burundi 1wacc Laib. praising 
rrngoliators f'or inrhing toward 
rornpron1is1\ but v\'arning tlwm 
thal tirnl' was running out to 
Pnd thP r.ountry's sl'VPn-ynar 
rivil war. 
.. , would likP tlw lnadPrship 
of' Burundi lo sPiz1' this oppor­
tunity and not allow it to slip 
away," lhP l'ornwr South 
,\fril'an presidnnl told 
Burundian politicians and civic 
lnadnrs gatlwrPd in th is north­
Pt'n Tanzanian Lown. 
Sincn 1'J'J:-3. lighting bPtwnnn 
llutu rPbnls and thn Tutsi­dominatPd armv has killed mor<' than · 200,000 llurundians and uprooted mor1• than 1.2 million otlwrs. . /\nd sillf'I\ ScptPlllbPr. tlw a r m y has lw rd 11 d rw a r Iv 3:i0,000 llutus into l'amps·. inr.luding many l'arnwrs -a stralq{y that now thrnatPns tlw impovPrislwd counlrv ,vith 
fami1w. · 
Mand1\la. who lo11k ovPr as 
nwdial.or of' th1· talks lasl 
month. told 1111• 1wgotialors 
that no 1warP was possiblP in 
l\urundi without rt'making its 
polilil',d landsrap1•. whPre 
minority Tutsis rontrol tlw 
gov1\rnm1·nt. ll11' 1•r.onomv and 
thn military. · 
"LPadcrs must bill' tlw bullet 
and addrnss this situation," he 
told an audiPnr.P of' :iOO. whirh included sovc'n African heads of stat!' as well as orfirials l'rom Europe and tlw Unitnd Stat(!S. 
Among Mandela's listnnPrs was Burundian l'rcsidcnt l'ierre Buyoya. who later said hb gm·<'rnnrnnt "would span' no effort" to reach a "lasting pPace." 
Hy focusing international att<'ntion on the 20-month-old talks. the anti-apartheid cham­pion is hoping to groups into the Lalks because without them. he said, no agnrnment rnached in Arusha was S{~curn. 
Mandela was no less blunt ia his views about the f'uturn of Burundi's military and its elec­toral system. Tho army should hP at least half Hutu. and vot­ing should combine on11-man­on f1-vote with some form of group representation, which he did not specify. 
Mandela also 
stressed the 
prod rcp­"Leaders must bite the importance of rPse n ta-gaining the sup­
bullet and address this 
tives of' port of the coun­
situation."
th 11 1 8 try's fi.2 million political people. But other than an
and civil Nelson Mandela groups elite few among
former president of
partic­the country's
South Africa
ipating in tlw talks toward a SPttlement. That campaign will continur, Tut~sday, with Prnsident Clinton sr,hr,dulr,d to hold a public vicleoconference with Mandr,la from the White 
Ilouse. 
Besides Huyoya, the hrads of stat<~ attcnding Monday's talks included Yoweri Musnvnni of' Uganda. Benjamin Mkapa ol' Tanzania. Joaquin, Chissano of Mozambiquc. Thabo Mbcki of South Africa -and l'asLeur Bizimungu or Hwanda. 
On the k1w issue of rnbel participatio·n in the talks. Mandela was unequivocal. Discussions were under way to bring the two main rebel minority Tutsi 
and majority 
Hutu, most peo­ple know little of the progress of the talks. What they do know rests mainly on rumor and state-controlled radio. 
"Negotiators could come to some agreement, but there would be no understanding of it because there's been no widH debate on the issues," said Frands Rolt. director of Studio ljambo, an indf\pendent radio news operation in the Burundian <:apital. Bujumbura. 
Last month. Mandela invoked the recent past to warn of the perils of an opaque negotiating process concluded under intense international pressure. 

ARGENTINA 
Investigators inspect 1947 plane crash site 
Associated Press 
TUPUNGATO 
Army specialists worked Monday at the site of a 1947 plane crash bigh in the Andes Mountains, hoping to bring down pieces of the plane and remains of passen­gers missing for dec:ades. 
investigators were racing to do as much recovery work as possible before an expect­ed onslaught of bad weather at midweek on the 21,848­foot Tupungato volcano, said Maj. Alberto Quinones, an army spokesman. 
Mountaineers stumbled upon the wreckage last month. Its disappearance had been one of the longest-run­ning aviation mysteries in the Andes, the mountain range that was a virtual gravevard for planes during the first half of the century. Investigators now hope that a study of the wrer,kage will help solve the lingrring mys­tery surrounding the cause of the disaster. 
"An advance team of 12 
men have gone up to mark 
the area where pieces of the 
plane were found," Quinones 
told The Associated Press. 
Luis Estrella, an air force 
official on the team, said 
authorities were studying 
whether the plane flew into 
th1~ face of the towering vol­cano during a snowstorm on Aug. 2, 1947. 
Air force helicopters took advantage of fair weather on Sunday to fly over a rocky field high on the volcano where the wreckage was found. Argentine news reports said. The air force had no immediate comment on the reports that at least one helicopter briefly landed in the wreckage fir,Jd, about 16,500 feet up the volcano. 
On Monday, army soldiers escorting journalists remained at Trcs Quebradas. at 8,100 feet, hoping to ascend Tuesday bv mule to a base camp supply.ing investi­gators at the site. 
The plane, called Stardust and operated by the now­defunct British South American Airways. was car­rying 11 pcopl~ -five crew members and six passengers. The flight originated in London, and it made a stop Buenos Aires before vanish­ing on its way to Santiago, Chile. 
The passengers included 
three Britons, a German 
woman, a Palestinian and a 
Swiss man. 
Following the crash, search 
teams from England. Chile 
and Argentina searched the 
area by air and on skis but 
turned up nothing. 

Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 

Call today and 11am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11am-Jam fri-sat 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 OBSERVER Tuesday, February 22, 2000 
--========-================= 
THE OBSERVER 
P 0. Box Q. Notte [),1111<. IN 46556 024 ::;outh D111i11g H.,11. None Dnme, IN 46556 
ErnrnR lN CHIEF Michelle Krup,, 

MANAGING ErnroR  Bt;SlNE.>S MANAGER  
M. Shannon Rvan  D,ivid Rogero  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  
Lauro Perelk  

NF.WS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SrcmTS EDlTOR: Brian Kcsslet SCENE EOlfOR: Mid1ael Vanegas SAINT MI\RY's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO Eu1roR: Kevin DJlum 
AnVEIITISJN(; MANAGER: Bryan Lurz 

Au OF.SIGN MANAGER: Bret Hudat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAl'HICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GFNFRAL INFO.............Ml-7471 FAx............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTJSJNG....................................631-6900/8840 
ol,scrver@darwin.cc.nd.~du EDITOR IN CHIEF................................... 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME...................6.31-4S41 Bus1NESS OmcL...................................... 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edll SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. J@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S ............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WES ADMINISTRATORS...............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observ<·r.11dedu for daily upda1es ofcunpus news, spons, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-ro-rhe 
weekly srudenc reviews 
tninure forecasrs 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
co mee r the edirors and
articles published ali:er 
scaff
Augusr 1999 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim· and online by the students of rhe University of.Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advenisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisrrarion ofeitner iusrirurion. The Observer reserves rhe right ro refuse advertisements based on con rem. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Ediror in Chief. Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editor and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available to alt readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lercers co rhe Editor muse be signed and muse include conrnct infom1:1tion. 
Q11tstiam regardin?, Oburver policies should be direct­ed ro Editor i11 ChiefMiche!le Kruptr 
Note: Mary Both Ellis is a highly esteemed scientist rcgulary showered with peer recognition and prizes (most recently: second place. St. Jude Elementary School's 1989 Junior High Science Fair, for a groundbreaking 
Mary Beth Ellis
representation of the solar system featuring styrofoam Changingballs and Tempora 
attitudes,
paint.) Currently 
Changing
she is studying the 
latitudes
effects of popular music upon natural and social phenomena, which is to say she watches reruns of Mystery Science Theater 3000 until she runs out of Cheez-lt money, at which point she resigns herself lo slapping together some attempted science (see below). 
QUESTION: What effect docs Andy Williams have upon line motor skills? 
MATERIALS: 1991 SounDesign AM/FM receiver/double cassette recorder/CD player; Andy Williams Greatest Hits: Live From Moon River Theater in Branson 
HYPOTHESIS: I predict that 47 min­utes of exposure to Andy Williams will result in a signilicanl drop in line motor skill abilities -those functions that allow us to type, perform self-grooming tasks and prepare a really line gin and tonic. 
PROCEDURE: 
l l Remove Andy Williams Greatest Hits: Live From Moon River Theater in Branson, Mo., from case. 
2) Experience concern with Andy's hair on album cover photo. What's going on here? It's too ... comby. 
3) Take scientific nap. 
4} Press "play." 
5) What the hell? Become alerted to something serious going down in CD player. Immediately investigate as to why Andy Williams sounds like The Bangles. 
6) Remove "Rad Hits of the '80's" from underneath Andy Williams Greatest Hits: Live From Moon Hiver 


DILBERT 
THIS TECHNOLOGY 
WILL WORK OR M'f NAME ISN'T PAUL TERGEIST. 


Theater in Branson. 
7) Check on progress of "Winter Spectacular of Pro Figure Skating"on ABC. 
8) Press "play" again. 
9) Press "pause" again. 
10) Visit Little Scientist's Room. lll Flush. 
12) Press "play" again. 
DATA AND OBSERVATIONS: The Hawaiian Wedding Song: Test dexterity by opening one (1) 12-ounce can of Coors. Successful save for experiencing small chip in lingernail of right index finger. 
Moon Hiver: Begin filing down finger­nail, which results in tragedy when, in act of filing, accidentally chip index fin­gernail of other hand. 
Can't Get Used to Losin' You: Give up on fingernail. Turn attention to 12­ounce can of Coors instead. Williams is suddenly easier to bear. 
Born Free: Terrifed to discover an inability to tie shoes until reach realiza­tion that am in fact wearing cowboy boots. 
MacArthur Park: Concern with fine motor skills suddenly surpassed by overpowering desire to off self. 

Canadian Sunset: Drag self off of' floor, vastly relived that Williams is· rio longer concerned with striped pants and drinking wine while it is warm and never letting you catch him, as stated in "MacArthur Park." Attempt to do "This is the church, this is the steeple." Fail miserably. Sob. · 
Lonely Street: Greatly comforted by fact that can still do this thing where I sit crosslegged on the floor, push off with my arms and make a complete, 360-degree rotation on the axis of my buttocks. Beer now warm. 
May Each Day: Still recovering from terror of' MacArthur Park. Fine motor skills are slightly diminished, but not­woiwaeeoiu !oag7yn%,8uA43T?}. 
L.O.V.E: Oh, the hell with it. 
CONCLUSIONS: What's up with my nails? I buff them, I apply calcium over­coats, I avoid manual labor. Still I get 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~ ~ 
@I 
.ff
.. ~ 
~ 
!;I 
E 
0 
u 
t: 
~ 
'6 


this chipping. 
Also, 1 highly recommend "Rad Hits of the '80's." It has Cyndi Lauper AND Richard Marx. 
CONTROL EXPEHIMENT PROPOSALS: This groundbreaking information raises more questions than it answers. I can­not sleep nights fretting about the fol­lowing: 
The effect of Perry Como on the apogee of the orbit of Mercury; 
The effect of Whitney Houston on the performance of Proctor & Gamble stock options; 
The effect of John Denver on the set­ting of a Mandarin Orange Jello salad. 
Only with further experimentation can we fully develop the Andy Williams Theory of Fine Motor Skill Interference, which, although formerly a corollary of the Law of the Mutating Effect of New Kids on the Block on Kraft Cheese Singles, is poised to revolutionize for­merly held scientific assumptions and create a safer universe. for instance, a mere two years ago we had no idea of' the implications of the combination of Barbra Streisand and the low-orbit per­formance of the space shuttle Columbia. True, "The Way We Were" caused critical shutdowns in the life support systems, but we'll never make THAT mistake again, will we? Nor will we ever again subject the secondary of the Cincinnati Bengals to the Ray Conniff Singers. 
1will, of course, require a massive amount of federal and private funding in order to continue. So if anyone out there has a copy of "Poems, Prayers and Promises" and/or "Savin' All My Love For You," pitch it my way. Proctor and Gamble stock, too. Lots and lots of P&G stock. Also Cheez-Its. 
Mary Beth Ellis, SMC '99, is an MFA candidate at Bennington College. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What we do for ourselves dies with us . What we do for our community lives long ajler we are gone." 
Theodore "Teddy" Roosevelt President of the United States 
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 

Tuesday, February 21, 2000 BSERYER page 11 
ND should freeze tuition, fees 
Willia!lls Collng1• will freHzn tuition and otlwr charges !'or 2000-0 I at $:11.:320. lt is tho first PXdusiv1• privatP col11\gl' or 11ni­vcr::;ily in dPcarllis lo hold llrn lirn•. "11111 a low inllation cyclP with our· cnclow­nwnt irn:rnasing and our 1·on­tributions from alumni VNY strong." Williams prPsidonl C.trl Vogt, said. "ltlhis sn1·ms a logi­r:nl movp... Prinn1ton will hold ils inc:reas{i to 3.:l pc1T<ml, tlw low­tist in :~o wars. "These shows of rnstraint.~' said Tinw Magazirw, "may signal a turnaround from the whopping ... incrnasns o!' r<'rPnt vnars. as some schools now rn;1sidPr using Uwir Pndow­nwnts lo control priC(\ hikPs." 
Should :'ioln• Danw fi>llow \Villiams· 1•xamplP'! Yes. although Williams is an undN­grad col!Pge with only 2.000 stu: cl<'nls. Al both publil' and privalP institutions avNagP tuition. adjustPd f'or inl'lation. doublnd !'rum 1976 to 1995. Tlw impact was grcatlist on students at pri­vate schools. (In 1998-<JlJ. tuition avPrnged $].200 at four-yl'ar public rnlhigl's.l Congrnss· rPmoval. in I978. of inconw rc•strictions on fPdt>ral stud1ml loans l'1rnb!Pd major univPrsities to linann' tlwir wsearch and building expansion through undergrad tuition. Tlwy lobbied Congress for im:rnascd loan lim­its. raisNI tuition to absorb those in<TPas11s. lobbiPd for higher limits. raisPd tuition. and so on. Notrn Damn. which ddin<1d itsdf as a lfosParch L:niVC'rsity in 
JlJ78-7<J. play1'd this immoral 
ganw. 
In I<J78-79. Notn• Danw·s undPrgrad tuition. room and board totaled $5.180. If it had lwpl pac<' with inl1ation. as mPa­sun•d bv llw C:onsumiir Price lndPx, th11 \991)-2000 total would be $12.84(1. For I999­2000. tlw total incrnasm! by 5.7 perc1mL Lo S27,780. As Father Malloy stalml last Nowmber. our "pp1ir institutions ... are incrnas­ing tlwir tuition 11\SS than WP an•." Notrn Ilame makes a V(~ry 1·omnmndablP nfforl lo ,:xl1'ml financial aid lo stuclnnts. But thn primary form or linandal aid rPmains the student loan. 
Williams l'rozc tuition because 
its Plldownwnt tripled. sinrn 
1990, to morp than $ I billion. 
Notre Danrn's emlowmnnt was 
$114 million in 1978-79. c1nd it 
is nbuut $2.2 billion now. 15th 
among privall' u11iversiti11s. The 
I<J99 Fact Book statPs that. in 
1rJ97-<JK, ,:u1Tcnl rnvmiues 
includPd $188.8 million from 
tuition and $:-!8.9 million (or 9 
percent of current rflvenm1s) 
from Endowment.. The 1999 
Annual llcport slates that "Over 
$54 million dollars in 
IEndowmPnt] earnings is ... dis­
tributed ... oadi year to ... sup­
port ... chairs ... scholarships 
libraries ... academic programs, 
and ... other nndowed funds.'· 
Fifty-f'our million dollars is 2.5 

percent of t.lrn Endowmont prin­cipal of$2.2 billion. What do they do with ttw .rnst of the. Fmlowment incnme" 
Ornr the past two decades, our ltmdnrs have shown a remark­able apility to raise and spend money and to uuild the Endowment toward the Top Ten. Thev havo transforrnl'd the for­nrnrly pastoral campus into a ('rowdcd imitation of urban research universities. The opu­lent new Bookstore remains opnn for 11 hours on Sundav, which rnduccs the chance that any she11p will pass through this campus unshorn. We also seem about to vault to t!w top of' the category, Largest and '.\ifost Expnnsivc) Campus Ministry Building. And Lhe end of the building boom is not in sight. Undergrads are paying more than twice as much, in real money. than they did two decades ago. But. in terms of quality and availability of com·s­es and teachers, they arc short­changed. In the Fall of 1999, 56 or 2:1 percent. of 100 !evol Arts and Letters sections were taught by "Student Instructors," and 32 or I:1 p11rcent by "Non-Regular Faculty." not c:ounting lab cours­es and tutorials. Of Arts & LntL11rs 200 levd courses, 42 or 18 perrnnt. were taught by "Studm1t Instructors" and 40 or 17 percent, by "Non-Hcgular Family." 
The law of thP market, huwcv­nr. may be catching up to the universities. LikP used-car lots. Notni Danw and othnr universi­ti1is offer discounts from their ,1xorbitant sticker prices to atlracl students with very high test scores who will gai1-1 the approval of U.S. News and other arbiters of' prestige. ][' present tr<'nds continue. the only non­wnalthv students at Notre Dame will lie·scholarship athletes, non: students. a limited num­bHr ol' minority scholarship stu­dPnts. facuttv and staff children, some of' the ~tudents whose lest scores brought them heavy dis­counts and n diminishing pool of non-wealthy students who opt for NotrP Dame even at the price of assuming a crippling loan burden that will distort their career and family options. Notre Dame ought not to become "a rich kids' school." 
Our leaders ought to freeze tuition, room. board and fees for two years for openers. This would not confer a major advan­tage on present students. But it would signal that Notre Dame intends. at least in pri.nciple. to recover its traditional mission which included the provision or oducation to qualified students regardless oJ: their financial sta­tus. And it would signal that Notre Dame is opting out of lhe shabby game by which tho major univnrsities have financed on thH backs nl' non-wealthy borrowing students a pursuit of rnsAarch prestige which benefits those students only marginally if at all. 
Charles Rice is on lhe law 
School faculty. Jlis column 
appears ev_ery other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this 
column are those ofthe author 
and nol necessarily those of The 
Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Disqualified candidates explain no-appeal decision 
In a time of chaos within the ranks of the Student Government, we, Hunt Hanover and. John Micek, desire to reach out to our fellow students and put un ugly issmi to its final resting place. After consultation of our confi­dants, we have decided not to file an appeal to the Student Senate and Judicial Council surrounding the decision handed down last week. We feel this course of action is the best step for nil parties involved. 
We feel that the student government gives students the opportunity to represent their peers while having a good time Therefore, prolonging the election with an appeal would go against our heliefs. The appeal process would do no good and create a situation in whicb many would accuse others of'violations based upon heresay. We did not want this appeal to lead to mudslinging, which may be inevitable. Both tickets wanted to end this election with the popular vote decision; unfor­tunately that is not possible. By no means do we feel that Kelly Folks or Becky Demko are to blame. In fact we would like to commend them for all their efforts and just decision­making throughout the election. 
We believe that as representatives of the student body it is our duty to uphold the Office of the President and the values associ­ated with anyone within. If taken to the sen­ate, it is obvious to us that things would unavoidably have become disgraceful to both the parties involved and student government as a whole. We must realize that this was simply an election to choose two representa­tives for the student body. This being the case it is important to mention that the student body president and vice president are not above any single student on campus. 
We believe that although some of the tickets in this year's election were not seriously vying for the position. they carried with them 
the wave of public opinion. Upon this wave rode the sentiment of the students, a senti­ment which sounded resoundingly with cries for normalcy. Students are fed up with lead­ers who do not represent campus life and attitudes. There is nothing in the constitution which states that student government must b~ stiff and somber. Although the Office of the P_1·esident is not primarily a programming body, the lighter side oflife must shine through the second floor windows of CaFortune and upon those in occupance. Thr. el-ection craze has left both the Judical Council in bad light and turned the democra­cy of Notre Dame into a virtual circus. In end­ing our quest for the second floor, we hope to send this circus out of town and allow timefor review and reorganization of the election ptoccss. · ~-Finally, we would like to thank all those who assisted us in our campaign efforts. We would especially like to recognize Dan Peate, · our campaign manager, for his tireless efforts. The past three weeks have shown us how truly special the people are who make up the Notre Dame community. Together we have commited ourselves to the Notre Dame community, which we will continue to serve in new and exciting ways. We trust that our efforts in this endeavor will not fall by the wayside. 
Hunt A. Hanover Presidential Candidate Junior, Sc. Edward's Hall 
John J. Micek IV 
Vice Presidential Candiace Junior, Keough Hall 
February 21, 2000 

Freshman defends letter on racial ignorance 
Although disappointed, I am not regretful for submitting a letter recently describing prejudices that exist in some Notre Dame classrooms. The idea of my Jetter was and remains to be that ignorance, while not always intended to hurt. does inevitably lead to the infliction of pain onto others. I chose the word "ignorance," first of all, not as an accusati_on or insult, but because the very definition implies "not knowing better," and I still feel confident in remarking that, just as in every other place in the world, ignorance does exist at this university, and people are getting hurt. 
Racism is a word which implies nothing but hatred and crueslty, and I have met fow if any racist people in my life. This is why r chose not to use the word "racism" in my original letter. Prejudices combined with enough hatred do often lead to racism, there is an important distinction between racism. ignorance. and prejudice (prcconcievcd ideas), and the three should not be confused. 
I wanted to write again to further explain and clarify my message. Ultimately, my rea­son for writing the letter was because I want­ed to share my friend's stories as an illustra­tion of how easy it is to make an offensive or prnjudiced comment without realizing it. I felt that my friend's experiences were apropos for the message of my letter, and I do not regret sharing with others how he felt in two specific situations at Notre Dame. 
I believe that it is vitally important that fac­ulty and students alike be sensitive and con­scientious of the comments that they make to one another. So many people (including members of my own family) have suffered from prejudice and ignorance and know how much pain this can cause. Ignorance, though, is not a taboo word. In the context of my let­ter, I intended it to describe how some people do not realize the impact or implications of some of their comments. As I stated in my let­ter, I do not believe that evil intentions, ulte­rior motives, or racism drives most people at Notre Dame and in the world. Not knowing that one's comments or ignorance can hurt others is an innocent mistake, and although I wish it did not happen, it does unfortunately. My friend's teacher probably did not intend his/her comments to be hurtful to my friend just as I, by writing my letter, certainly did not intend to hurt or offend anyone. Mistakes are understandable; it is what people do after making them that makes the difference. 
I still feel that the issue of improving race relations at Notre Dame necessitates students and faculty embracing one anther's humanity and learning from their mistakes. No person should feel awkward or uncomfortable because of a comment made by a faculty member or student. Being accepting of each other's feelings and willing to change and understand why it is people feel the way they do are essential ingredients to making sure that ignorance stops hurting people. Armed with this open-mindedness and by avoiding complacency, Notre Dame will surely contin­ue on the right track toward improving race relatii;ms. As a final note, I send my apologies to anyone who felt offended by my letter; this was not my intention. 
Ken Seifert 
Freshman, Stanford Hall February 21, 2000 


MUSIC COLUMN 
Don't make us say 'Uhhh' anymore 
As a sophomore I. have fortunat.ely retired from dorm parties. yet I can't cscapr. from attending gatherings that ocr.ur in honor of' a dorm formal. O'Neill Hall's Mardi Gras or other func­tions sur.h as West Quad Formal. Don't get me wrong about these gatherings. I often have a blurry blast, but the catch is that most of these gatherings are host­ed by friends, which means I'll most likelv tolerate their choi~es for the soundtrack to our gathering. Although when I arrive at the actual dance or when freshmen in my dorm host a party, how many times do I have to hear Jay-Z spat out "Can I Get 

A ...'"? Or whv is it that a friend or mine rcr.ontly attended a. Pangborn llall danct! during whir,h the D.J rofused Lo play "Give It Away" by the Hod Jlot Chili Peppers an<l instead blasted a heavy dose of bass off of Dr. Dre·s Chronic: 
20()()? 
It seems as if .students here party, danr.ing to the monotonous sounds of songs drivrm by the loud thud of a rap beat accompanied by a ridiculous sub­ject; some argue "songs" such as Master P's "Make 'Em Say Uhhhh." bor­derline the definilion of mush:. Master P groans and chants to a beat: that duesn'l exactly take that much true 
musical talent,, Hap "artists" arc becom­ing limitorl as far as the subject of their rapping as well. 
Let's review -prostitution. gangs. drug sales and the ghetto in general have all been covered at least once before. 
As mur.h as some of us are tired of hearing Dave Matthews Band. too. we would rather dance to that music than constantly jolting our bodies around to a DJ's stream of' songs primarily con­sisting of' rap. Parties and dances here aren't ALI. lt/\P, /\LL TIIE TIME. but what is it being played if it is not rap'! 

. "Come on. Eileen?" Please! People, why are we playing the same songs over and over again? Why are the majority of them so bad and so over­played? I undnrsland lhat some of' us like these songs, but can one honestly admit they are fine pieces of music? I can't. Maybe it is linked to the diversity on this campus, and an angle lo that exists that we just do not realize. Is Notre Dame saturatr,d with audiophiles? That must be it. U93, ironically owned by the University. fuels the r.ampus with the sound of the musir.ally popular, not nec­essarily fine pieces composed from, say, a musically theoretical standpoint. and the musk on U93 might not be rap, but chances are you'll hear some boy band 
that epitomizes the latest tt'leny-bopper · r.raze. 
Or perhaps it is our style of party: drinking beer and getting sloshed. The terrible music played here differs from that. of a scene where people dance to the music such as Phish. But oh my gosh! Those fans arc taking hallucino­gens and smoking marijuana and then dancing around! Yet few r,an argue that Phish songs are not composed from a brilliantly theoretical standpoint. and people still dance to it. 
Who knows, but in the 1700's people danced to Mozart, and now we settle for Jay-Zand Dexy's Midnight Hunners (did you even know that's who sings "Come on Eileen''?). 
So it's lime to overcome our habits and groove to some relativflly good music. If we can't do that, then can we at least try to groove to something dif­ferent, maybe somflthing that's not rap?! 
And jeez. no more Eileen, please. 
Vertical Horizon & Stroke 9 
Stepan Center ·-Wednesday, March 1, beginning at 8 PM 
Tickets are still available at the LaFortune Information Desk 
Students -$14 

UPCOMING CONCERTS 
South Bend 

The Transoms, American S1:andard & Justin Dunn 
Lynx, The Ninjas The Transoms & The Bu~1:erfly Effect 
Yercical Horllz;on & s1:roke 9 
Umphre-,•s McGee 
Henny Wayne Shepherd 
Senior Bar 
The Hive 
Stepan Center 
Benchwarmers Hearcland 
Indianapolis 

Umphre-,•s McGee The Patio. 
Chicago 

G Love & Specllal Sauce Vic Thea•re 
Feb. 25 
Feb. 26 
ltar. • 
Nar.4 Mar. 28 
Feb. 26 
March 11 

General Public -$16 
New RELEASES 
Today 
The Chief1ons -Wa1er From 1:he Well Alex Chilton -Set Michael Hu1chence -Michael Hucchence (¥2) WilHam Orbit -Pieces in a Modern Style 
February 29 
Bone Thuas-N-Harmony -BTNHResurrection 
Oasis -S1andina on ihe Shoulders of Glian1s 
Smashin9 Pumpkins .. NACHINA 
Steely Dan • Two A9ains1: Nature 
March 7 
Black Rob • Life S1ory Violent Femmes -Freak Maane1 



Tuesday, February 22, 2000 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Mann and Magnolia are a perfect match 
By TIMOTHY COLLINS 
Scene Mu<il" Criric 
Movil' soundtracks todav seem to just r.apilalizc off of' a few old hil sin~les and sonrn big name artists to sell copit-is. Harrly does a soundtrar,k 

Magnolia 

Reprise RecGrds 
**** {out offiveJ 
come along that fully capture the essence, mood and feeling of a film.· But Paul Thomas Anderson. with his film Magnolia. has done it. lie recruit­ed Aimf'e Mann, leader of the '80s band. 'Til Tuesday, to write and con­tributr her songs to the film. 
The album opens with Mann's cover of Three Dog Night's unknown gem "One." Mann delivers the lyrir.s with a certain passion that makes the listen­er feel as if she is singing right to them as sh(! says, "Om1 is the loneliest n_umber that you'll ever do." 
"Deathly" opens with Mann asking. "Now that l 've met you, would you object to. never seeing me again?" The listener almost feels like answer­ing her. Like the rest of the album, this song centers around Mann's smart lyrics and catchy melodies. This is one of the catchiest albums in a while; the listener will be singing all or these songs after they listen to them without even realizing it. 
Each one of Mann's new contribu­tions seems to build upon and get even better than the one that pro­ceeded it. "Driving Sideways," "You Do" and the instrumental "Nothing ls Good Enough" am all great songs that will not bP forgotten anytime soon after listening. But Mann saves her best for last. 
Tlw singlP "Save Me" has already garnered Mann an Osr,ar nomination 


ALBUM REVIEW 
Follow-up soundtrack is mediocre 
this song is any indication of the 

By ROBERT CALLEROS 
rumon~d N.W.A. reunion album, it 

~H..:c:nt.· lvfusic CcitiL· 
definitely looks promising. 

Ice Cube is also adds to the hype asIt's Friday1" Actually it's thP Next he combines with Mad-10 on the 1:ridav. l'irst song ot' the album. "You Can Do It:<' c·ubr' is back with thn movie ft" is a dub jam. which will definitely sPqunl and anothPr soundtrack in get those bodies moving around the hoµ11s or getting those booties bounc­dance 11oor. Although the movie is a ing and thosn heads ringing again. comedy. one wouldn't be able to tell With as many big from the sound­nanw artists con­track ber,ause like tributing to the fol­"You Can Do It,"
Various Artists

low-up soundtrack most of the songs and production by arn serious club no1w otlwr than In• jams. CubP. it is a shanw Keeping with the that NPxl Friday popular wave of bardv managns "Latin music explo­kP <' p · pac1\ in a sion," Next Friday world l'illPd Lv also boasts a track m 1· dior r I' sou n c!"­bv Frnst (aka Kid tracks. This is not Frost). Don Cisco lo say Lhat Uw !\jnxt and Kurupt called Fridav soundtrack .. Mamacita." On the d1.11~s "not hav1• its H&B tip. "Make bright spots. Your Hody Sing" by 
.\c:tually. it's just tho Isley Crothers is llw 11pposil1'. Tlwn, a definite highlight. ar1• a f'p,r tracks Thi' lslfy Brothers "hich ar<' notcwor­am bal'.k with their l h v, s u (' h as seductivR style or N ~\/./\. 's f'irst track 70s funk and soul. in lnn VPars. "Chin 
In addition Wyclef Chrirk ·., le!' Cubf'. Jean. Bizzy Bone, MC Hen and Dr. Dre Krazy Bone arP all bai:k, wilh Aalivah, Eminem. tlw addition of Snoop Doggy Dogg to Ja HulP, Wu-Tang Clan and several replace the late Easy-E. in a track others nrnke contributions to the definitely worth chl~cking out.. The album. song. ho\HVl\l', docs not rnl'Iec:t the Overall. Next Fri-day is a big name ha r dc o n; a l l it i dn o r Llw orig iII a I compilation of some of Hip-Hop and NW.A. lnst~'ad. "Chin Check" H&B's brightest st:trs whkh tends to sounds much mon\ like the usual sparkle and fade into an at times laid-back funk of' West Coast rap. I!' amusing soundtrack. 

rte~tfri~~Y>, 
·· "·• 
for· Best Ori­ginal Song and will almost certainly get a Grammy nom­ination next year. She sings "From the ranks of the freaks, who suspect you would never love anyone," and asks to be saved with the urgency that fits the char­acters of the film perfectly. 

But Mann also contri­butes some of the great songs from her first two solo albums to the soundtrack. "Momentum," and "Build That Wall'' are both some of the bet­ter songs of her career. But "Wise Up" from 1996's I'm With Stupid provides one of the best moments on the soundtrack and the best in the film as the characters sing Mann's heart­wrenching lyrics: "It's not going to stop until you wise up." 
But alongside Mann's nine contribu­tions. the soundtrack boasts two '70s classics from Supertramp -: the great "Goodbye Stranger" and "Logical Song" -and an early '90s catchy dance tune, Gabrielle's "Dreams." 
Anderson's Magnolia is one of the more interesting films to come out of Hollywood in recent years and the sad. dire situations that its characters are presented with are perfectly rep­resented by its soundtrack. It offers catchy new and old songs from Aimee Mann alongside some great old songs, and the only thing that the listener might regret about it is that tlrnre isn't more Aimee Mann. 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Burnside's blues are a hidden treasure 
original material and arrangements of By JAMES SCHUYLER traditional blues songs. While Burn-side's Scene Music Critic 
music has changed somewhat significant­
ly over the years, the original songs onAlthough now still playing at the age of this album reflect the some of the best of 
. 73. R.L. Burnside's music did not his music. receive much attention at all till his sign­Of special note on this album are the ing with Fat Possum records in the early title track, "My Black Name A-Ringin'," 90s. Although he has been playing pure and Burnside's arrangement of the tradi­delta blues ·since the 50s, his music never tional "Catfish Blues," which has probably really escaped the been played by every­poor Mississippi town one who has ever con­that he himself was sidered themselves born in. Burnside's blues artists even in a music is a rarity in the remote sense such as music community Jimi Hendrix. "Nine because it is pure: he Days in Jail" gives the plays delta blues the listener a clear idea of way t was meant to be how Burnside's sound played, straight out of has evolved. hell. However, much of 
Burnside's voice is the deep hearted and colored by obvious very real blues of R.L. years of smoking, Burnside has been drinking and story bao;tardized in the last telling. He sings ol' release off of Fat things that make most Possum Records, mep cry with a little Come On In. On that bit of a smile. Much of album tracks from Burnside's music now Burnside classic songs is coined punk blues were sampled in an because it is not the attempt by the record metancholic type of company to make a blues that most be dance album similar pP-ople think of. HP­to the style of Beck. sings of pain and loss This album destroys but only to spit in its the pure form of face. Burnside's music. 
Recently Adelphi Unfortunately, there Records released a collection of songs are a number of other artists such as R.L from a 1967 recording session which Burnside who have not as of yet been showcases the talents and style of given the attention in the music industry Burnside in his youth. My Black Name A­that they deserve. These artist's music are Ringin' is a treasure of real blues from the treasures waiting to be discovered. hilltops of Mississippi containing both 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 22, 2000 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 

St. John's knocks off UConn for sixth-straight win 
El-Amin missi~d a 3-pointor Associue<l Press for UConn and Barkley went the length of the floor for a NEW YORK layup that made it 56-40 with 
St. John·s starting backcourt 12:54 to play. of Erick Barkley and Bootsy Connecticut · coach Jim Thornton outscored its counter­Calhoun then called three 30­parts 42-2 and the Hed Storm second timeouts during the rolled to their sixth straight vie• next 1 :51 but the Rt>d Storm tory. 79-64 over No. 22 took their biggest lead, 61-4.2, Connecticut ou Munduy night. on a free throw by Postell with 
Tht• cloud of a second !\CAA 9:44 left. investigation in a month didn'l Kevin Freeman led the appnar to be affecting the Hect Huskies with a snason-high 22 Storm (19-6, 11-3 Big East) on points and Voskuhl added 10. the court as they beat a ranked El-Amin, tlie lluskies' leading conference opponent for the scorer at 16.3 points per game, second straight game. scored two points. He had u 
Saturday night's 76-75 victo­previous season low of four ry over then-No. 9 Syracuse points against Fairfield. was also in front of a sellout Mouring, second iil scoring at crowd of 19.410 at Madison 14.3, had six points twice, both Square Garden and started a in the opening five games of the tough closing stretch tu the n;g­season. ular season. The victorv was the :~OOth for 
The loss was the fourth in '.\!like Jarvis:who is 47-15 in his sixth games for the Huskies second seasou with St. .John's. (18-8. 7-6). who have lost more His overall mark, including games this season than the last stints at Boston University and two combined, including last George Washington, is 300­season's 34-2 run to ihe 156. national championship. St. John's doses the regular 
St. John's came into the game season with games at No. 2 10th in the conference in 3-Duke on Saturday. at home point shooting at 29.7 percent. against Seton Hall and at but had its best game of the Miami. season behind the arc. going 6­of-9 (66.7 percent). 
Oklahoma State 84,
Barkley finished with 22 points. Thornton had 20 and Missouri 72 each had four assists. Lavor Desmond Mason bad 25 Postell also had 22 points on 8-points and nine rebounds as 
for-12 shooting for the Red Oklahoma State held off a furi­Storm. who finished 26-for-47 ous late rally by Missouri for a from the field {55.3 percent). victory. 
Connecticut's starting guards. Brian Montonati added lb

' 
' Khalid El-Amin and Albert points and 11 rebounds for the
I 
Mouring. were a combined O­Cowboys {22-3. 11-2 Big 12).

' .
I for-16 from the field. including who have won eight of nine and 
missing nine 3-point attempts. · moved into l'irst place in the The Rnd Storm led 39-33 at conference. Oklahoma State halftime, the same score as in overcame a season-high 24 
the previous meeting between turnovers. 
the teams at Connecticut, The Cowboys seemingly 
which St. John's won 82-77. pulled away .by hitting 10 of 
The Huskies. who haven't their first 12 shots after the won consecutive games since a break, leading by as many as three-game winning streak 20 points. The gap was sfill 14 from Jan. 27-Feb. 2, were with­when the Cowboys had a shot 
in 47-40 on a rebound basket clock violation with 2:30 to go. 
by Jake Voskuhl with 15:02 to Missouri hit five 3-pointers 
play. the rest of the way, and trailed 

Reggie Jessie hit a jumper to by only four after Kareem Rush 21 points f'rom Joe Adkins and with three points. half considering Missouri's hor­start the Red Storm's 9-0 run connected with 51 seconds to 12 from Glendon Alexander. Mason hit a 3-pointer just rid start. The Cowboys shot 48 that included a five-point play. go. Oklahoma State escapnd had been 2-26 at the llearnes before the halftime buzzer for a percent, held Missouri to 28 
Voskuhl was called for a foul when Mason answered with a Center. 28-23 lead and he had two percent shooting and had a 19­with 1::1:23 to play and was dunk after. a length-of-court The Big 12's top defense sti­more baskets in the opening 11 rebounding advantage, but then given a technical foul for pass. fled the Tigers until the late 1:33 of the second half to help hurt themselves with 13 complaining about the call. Keyon Dooling had 19 points going. Missnuri began 1-for-13 Oklahoma State open the gap. turnovers. Donald Emanuel made one free for Missouri (16-9, 9-4). Thn and shot 34 percent. Alexander's 3-pointer gave Missouri didn't make a con­
Tigers have lost three in a row

throw for the foul and Barkley Kareem Rush, who averaged Oklahoma State 10 baskets in ventional basket until Pat made two for the technical. On at home for the first timr. since 25 points last week. was held to 12 shots to start the half and a Schumacher made a layup with the ensuing possession, 1992-93, with all the games 
13. Clarence Gilbert. averaging 54-37 lead with 11:18 to play. 8:28 to go in the half, but shot Thornton followed his own shot against ranked opponents. 13 points. missed his first eight Oklahoma State had a sur­50 percent the last 10 minutes to make it 54-40. Oklahoma State, which also got shots and finished 1-for-11 prisingly tough time in the first to get back in. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
Help! Silver and blue Guess watch lost somewhere between Debartolo (rooms 155 or 205) and the SDH on Friday, February 1 B. It found please call Julie at 2374 
WANTED 
Childcare needed. 
1 or 2 students for 20 hrs per week between 9 and 5 to watch 2 yr old & newborn for ND prof in our home.Experience and transporla­lion required.Some flexibility ,n scheduling possible. Please call Rose at 289-3865 ATTENTION: THE PHONE NUM­BER IN THIS AD HAS BEEN COR­RECTED. PLEASE CALL AGAIN IF YOU TRIED BEFORE ANO GOT A WRONG NUMBER. 
Wanted 50 serious people to lose weight, safely & effectively. NaturaVguaranteed www.lose-now.com or 1 ·800-883-1569 
FLINT COMPLETE PERSONNEL SERVICES 102 N MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND 
FUNT IS RECRUITING FOR THE FOLLOWING PERMANENT POSI· TION 
INSIDE SALES REPRESENTA­TIVE Growing and Expanding Staffing Looking For Highly Motivated, Energetic Person Must Have C/S Skills and Sales Exp. 
Interested Candidates Please Contact Kim (219) 233-2150 Young family seeks fluent German-speaking mother's helper 2-3 limes/wK 5 minutes from ND. Must have transportation. 271-8355 
SUBLEASE YOUR HOME this summer to visiting faculty of ND Needed in June and July. Professor with 3 children and a dog. Must be close to Notre Dame. Please call 631-3165. 
SUMMER CHILO CARE NEEDED for visiting faculty of ND. Schedule will include day class time, some evening and weekend hours. Will need references. Call tor an appointment 631-3165. 
ASPIRING WRITERS! www.maincampus.com seeks stu­dents for stories ranging from Politics/Sex/Culture/Opinions $25 per story! Email us at earn@maincampus.com 

NICE HOMES FOR NEXT Student Activities is now hiring SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA sound technicians. For more FOR RENT NORTH 2773097 information or to pick up an applica­lion, stop by 315 Lafortune. 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA Go Zahm Fear' AND CLOSE NORTH 2773097 http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ fear fear email: mmmrentafs@aol .com 
tear 232-2595 New Phone Card fear fear B'NB REGISTRY 886 mins. $20 219-291-7153 258-4805 or 243-9361 fear 
FOR SALE 
fear 3•4 bdrm new home, flp, cathedral Beautiful brass bed, queen size, ceilings, 3 baths, 2-car garage, with orthopedic mattress set and and Jessie! family room. deluxe frame. New. never used. still $1400/mo. in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 pq 
decisions, decisions 616·683-5038 mk 219-340-1844 
PERSONAL
219-232-4527 ec. 
how's it going girl? miss ya EXCELLENT 5 BEDROOM HOUSE GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097 www.thecommentator.com calculus. you + me = us 
Tuesday, February 22, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Happy

0MPU5 f\111NISTRY 
J2K! 

@ JJ2 Badin Hall 631-5242 ~103 Hesburg'1 library 631-7800 (@Jemail ministry.1@nd.edu 10web www.nd.edu/~ministry 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday, February 14 through Monday, February 28 103 Hesburgh Library Freshman Retreat #28 (Mar. 3-4) Sign-Up 
T argeted dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Howard, Keough, Knott, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, and Sorin 
Monday, February 14 through Friday, Morch 24 103 Hesburgh Library 
Senior Retreat #2 (Mar. 31-Apr. 1) Sign-Up 
Tuesday, February 22, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, February 22, 7:00--8:30 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel Confirmation -Session #9 
(Part 2) We Live What We Believe The Virtues -The Ten Commandments -Social Justice 
Wednesday, February 23, 8:00 p.m Wilson Commons 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, February 23, 10:00-10:30 p.m. Walsh Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Thursday, February 24, 7:00-9:00 p.m Montgomery Theatre, La Fortune Student Center 
6-part Class Series on Natural Family Planning for engaged & married couples 
Co-sponsored with The Natural Family Program of St. Joseph County. Fee: $125 00. -Financial aid is available. To register call 237-7405 
Friday-Saturday, February 25-26 
Handbell Choir Tour to Michigan 
Friday-Saturday, February 25-26 St. !oe Hall 
Senior Transition Retreat 
Co-sponsored with the Center for Social Concerns 
Saturday-Sunday, February 26-27 Moreau Seminary 
ROTC Freshman Retreat 
Sunday, February 27, 10:00 pm 
Farley Hall Chapel 
Pop Farley Mass -ND Handbell Choir 
Monday, February 28 through Friday, March 3 103 Hesburgh Libr<m'. 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #61 (April 14-16) Sign-Up 
Good Stuff to Know 
CLASSIFIED

ii-----------------------i 
NTE 

15 . SENIORS FOR RETREAT; 
NO EXPERIENCE REQUIRED. MusT BE 
WILLING TO HAVE FUN WITH FELLOW 
CLASSMATES WHILE SHARING HOPES 
AND FEARS FOR<f:inu_§p ? 
SET ON THE BANKS OF BEAUTIFUL 
LAKE WAWASEE IN SYRACUSE, IN. 
1{ POSITIONS OPEN FOR 
lMAR. 31-Af'R_J/ 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE 
IMMEDIATELY AT CAMPUS MINISTRY/ 
103 HESBURGH LIBRARY* 
DIRECT INQUIRIES TO CLARE 1-3389 
WOHH. WOJtH.. WORli. WO~K~ WOHH. WOHi{. won«. WORH.. WORH. WORH.. '\VORH... WOJtH. WQHH* WOll~.K. WOHH.. WORH. \IV'ORH .. WOHi(. wont<. WOHH~ woru<. WORI<.. WO:flK., WORJ-{,. WORK. wonH. WORH. "\IJl(H'U·C WORK. WORJ!i. WORff., WORH.. WORK~ WOJ)K.. wonH. WORH.. WORH.. WOHH.. WORH.. WOHH~ WOllH. wonH. w·on,c.. WOkK.. WORM. PRAY. WORH. WOflH. \/1.fOnK. wont<. WORK.. WORH.. WORH. WORH., WOJU-,(_ WOHi·(. W'ORI«. WORK. WORH... WORH. WORt{,. WORM. won«. "•,!tfOJIH,, wo~~H. WORM,. WORH.. WOJ-t'{. WOJli{. wo,,1-t.
~,·I~ ·· 'tWll ;:~:;;~.-;~•~;u";~~i­
. . . THE EIID OFYOUR DAY?. wffl)c{.ht It) ii•t~r ~oRH.. wonH.. wo,iu.. woHI-(. WOR.t.t:. WOJ~f<. W~RJ::, wonH.. WOHi{. WORH. wonH. 
EVERY WEDNESDAY. I OPN. WALSH HALL CHAPEL. 
--~--------------------------------. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 22, 2000 
BASKETBALL 

Murphy earns sixth Big East player of week honor 

Special to The Observer 
Forward Troy Murphy has brien namPd the Hig Fast Player ol' lhe Wnek !'or the sixth time this season after scoring :~5 points, grabbing eight rnlfounds and hlocking throP shots in his team's 76­74 victory at 25th-ranknd S11ton Hall. 
Murphy's sixth player-ol'-lhe week honor ties him with John Wallace of Syracuse who also was a six-time winnc•r during the 1995-96 campaign. 
The 6-foot-I0 sophomore leads tho league in both scor­ing and rebounding as he is avPraging 23.5 points and 
10.7 rebounds, respectively. 
llis 35 points against the Pirates tics his career-high and marks the ninth time this season he has scored 30-plus points in a game. 

\1urphy has led the Irish in scoring in 22 of its 26 games. 
Riley, Ratay outrank 
competition 
Junior centnr Ruth Riley and l'rnshman guard Alicia Ratay were winners of the Big East wnokly awards after leading tlw fifth-ranked Irish to a 2-0 week with victories on the road at Villanova (70-52) and at oighth-ranked Hutgers (7 8­74 in overtime). 
Riley was named th11 playcr­
o f-the-week along with Svetlana /\brosimova of Connecticut earning the award for tlrn second time this season. 
She averaged 20.0 points and 11.0 rebounds, scoring 14 points and grabbing eight rebounds against Villanova and then recording lrnr fourth 
double-double of the season with 26 points and a season­tying 14 rebounds against Rutgers. 
Ratav is named the rookio­of-the-werk f'or the sixth timr (the most by any freshme11) in 1999-2000 as she averaged 
19.0 points and 7.0 rebounds. In the overtime win at Hutgers, Hatay set the Big East three-point field goal 
percentage  record  as  she  
rnatle  all  seven  of  her  
attempts.  

She finished the game with 26 points and 10 rebounds in recording her second double­double of the season. Hatay also had 12 points and four rebounds against Villanova. In the two games, the freshman guard shot 73.3 percent from tlrn field (11-15) and was scven-of-nim~ from three-point rungc. 



Tuesday, February 22, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Belinda battles multiple sclerosis 
Associate<l l'ress 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

Staring down a clutch hittor whi!P trying to protnct a onn­run lead wilh th<\ lmsns load<,<l in tlw ninlh inning al Coors Field is 0111• ol' bas1:ball's scari­<'St challm1g1•s. 
Try staring down multiµle sclerosis. 
Stan lfolinda has done both and said therP's rPally no comparison. 
Belinrla, a right-handed l'Plinwr who is bidding for a spot 011 tlw Colorado llorkilis rosl"r this spring, has l'ash­imwd a uniquP 1wrspc('tiv1· on bnscdrnll and 1111 lil'I' si11cP bcd11g diagnosPd with tlw dcg1\1Wraliv1· 1wrv(1 dis(1as1· in SqllPmlwr I</98. 
''! wanl to win with this dis­nuse, and I wanl Lo win as a tPam," llPlindu. :{:{. snid on Monday. "I think I can do both." 
lfolinda's troubles began wlrnn 11(' woke up in a New York hotld room in mid-May 11)98 with tingling and numb­rwss in his leg. 
"That was just tho onP thing that startl'd it, and it just esca­lated lhnn llwn:," tw said. 
ThL! numbness spread over most of his bodv. Then came the diagnosis i~1 S(~plember that he was in ~lw early stages 
of \1S. "You can't prcpan• yourself for something likP tha1," 
Belinda said. 
Them is no known cure for MS, but if' caughl 1•arly and with prnpcr diPL, DX1'.rcisn and mcdicalion. victims can livo a normal lifostyln. Sonw \1S suf­fernrs d<w1dup s1~v1m: Jisahili­tit•s including loss of motor function and blind1rnss. 
13elinda resum1•d pitrhing midway through Uw I991J s1•a­son, and he has bocn mostly symptom-f'rne sincP his treat­nwnt twgan. 
"I hoJH' som(, 1wupil: !'ind inspiration from this," lw said. "My insµiration is my l'amily lwil't~ Lori alld thrnP rhildrnnl and c;od "Unl'ortunutc>ly for mP, I golsomP bad rwws. but I'm dualing wilh it and I'm just trying lo stay upbeat and try­ing tu pcrl'orm. (;od wil!i11g, I'm going lo ltnish my career the way I want to finish it, and that's lo go out on lop." 
Helinda, acquirPd by Colorado in the (kt. :HJ lrudc with Cindnnati that also brought outlfoldiir ll'i'frev Hammonds lo Lhe Horkins f'o~ Dante Bichettn, is pan ol' a glut of' right-lrnndnd rdinvors on lhP Hockies' spring rnsh!r. 
Typically, he accepts his sit­uation magnanimously. "TlH\rn's a lot ol' us, aren't 

SCHLUMBERGER gives you the finest technology, training and support 
in the world. Then gives you the autonomy to prove your mettle. 
Accept the challenge. Push your limits. The view is great at the top. 
Notre Dame Interviews 
Information Meeting: 
February 24, 1000 • G:30pm-8:30pm 
Moni; Inn, Alumni Room 
Interviewing: 
February 25, 2000 

I, > www.slb.com< jj 
Schlumberger 

,_~ Visit our site. An equal opporwnity employer. 

Irish 
continued from page 24 
week honors for her perfor­mances against Villanova and Rutgers. In the Rutgers game, Riley had 26 points, equaling Ratay's total, while also grab­bing 14 rebounds. 
The two teams met earlier in the season, on Jan. 22 in Coral Gables, Fla. The Irish posted a 76-54 victory behind Danielle Green's 22 points, six 
.DaytonLBeach Resort 
m CGIFIIEICE mm 
~~~=::'!,:1••S89~g 
800-654-6216 
Visit ff 1i wn.d.7lo11be1drcsod.c011 Of www.dbc011H>rcalco• 
assists and three steals. Riley had 15 points while Julie Henderson chipped in with 13 
and 11 rebounds  as  the Irish  
dominated the paint.  
Notre Dame had  a  40-27  

advantage on the boards and 48 of their points came off of layups. Miami shot just 39 percent from the field and committed 23 turnovers. Martha Bodley had a team­high 13 points for the Hurricanes. 
The Irish hold an 8-2 all­time advantage in the series. 
Got Sports? Call 1-4543 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
VS. 
Providence 7:30pm 
This Wednesday 
a.I':. 
VARSITY SHOP
,.•. 

UESb4Y! I : · · · · YCE cftM1!t< 
there?" he said. 
So many, in fact. that they might squeeze out some !eft­hander candidates, possibly leaving Colorado with only one lefty in the bullpen. Still, some o[' the right-handed relievers won't earn u job here. One of them could be Belinda. 
"That doesn't bother me," he ·said. "The team has to make its decision. If things don't work out here -uotjust for me but for any of these other righties who are capable or doing what they can do on tlw field -tlwy're going to have jobs in other places. I just havo to go out on the field and perform thn way I'm capable ol' performing." 
In 11 major-league seasons, Belinda has compiled a 40-34 record and 3.89 ERA, but his ahhreviated 1999 campaign was sub-par, which he altrib­utes to lingering concern over his illness. 
"Mentally, I wasn't prepared like 1 should have been in spring training," ho said. "And physically, I didn't put much effort into it the winter before. I didn't get myself prepared for sµring training like I did in years' past just because l was trying to get my head on straight." 
Bis progress early in 1999 was hampered by biceps ten­donitis, which Belinda has a history of. 
"By the time I was ready to pitch in June, our bullpen was set," he said. "There were times when I didn't pitch for 10 lo 12 days." 
g Bears! n away! 
·. f 
:~,•1?''.':<=;-:,··,· 
..;« jt 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 22, 2000 
HOCKEY 

leer Zasowski shines on defense, earns player of week 
Spcci,1 to The Observer 
Notre Dame freshman goal­tt> n d er Tonv Zasowski has earned his tl{ird wecklv award from the Central Coilegiate Horkey Assoriation. r1~ceiving the league's defensive playcr­of-the-week award after help­ing thr. Irish post a 5-:~ win and 1-1 tie at Bowling Green 
on Feb. 18-19. 
Zasowski -who has started ear.h of Notre Dame's last 13 games-opened tlH) win at Bowling Groen with 25 saves en route to a 31-savn nighl. with two even-strnnt~th goals allowed. The next night. he made 20 saves while allowing a third-period goal as the Irish maintained possession or lifth plare in the CCHA. 
Notre Dame players have been honored three times by the COIA during the past five weeks, more than any other team iu the 12-member CCHA. Zasowski -who also has twice been named CCIII\ rook­ie of the week -is just the fifth freshman to earn a CCI-IA player-of-the-w,~ek award this season. 
Zasowski ranks seventh among regular CCHA goal­tenders with a 2.29 overall season goals-against average and fifth among league net­minders who have played 1,000-plus minutes-while his .908 overall save percentage ranks sixth among CCIIA goalies with 1.000-plus min­utes. Both of those marks remain on pacP to best the 
Notre Dame rncords set by Forrest Karr 12 5H. I99H-99I and Mark Kronholm t.907. 1970-711. 
II is 11 vktories this season are tied for fourth-most in the CCHA, behind LakP Superior's Jayme Platt, Northern Michigan's Dan Haguscll and Michigan State's Hyan Miller. 
Zasowski has allownd just 35 even-strnngth go,ds in 2:i games played this sr:ason­including just 14 in thr last 13-while allowing 0-2 total goals in 15 of' his 21 starts 1-fc> has posted two shutouts Lhis season (19 saves vs. Alaska Fairbanks, 24 vs. Michigan State) to join Karr us the only Irish goaltend1ws rwer to post multiple solo shutouts in the same season. 
Notre Dume players huve combined for five total CCJJA weekly awards this s11ason. ranking brhind only Michigan. NMU. MSU and Lake Superior. Irish freshman center Connor Dunlop was named CCHA rookie of Lhr week on Oct. 18 while junior left wing Dan Carlson was named o!Tt'.nsive player of thti week on Feb. 7. 
Zasowski is one of four CCHA players who have totaled three-plus awards this season, with the others bdng: Michigan center Mike Comrie (three-time player of' the week). Ferris State forward Chris Gobert (two-tim,i rookie of the week. offnnsiv1\ playPr of the w1rnki and MSU's Miller {two-tinw rooki1~ of the wnrk. defensivP player or tlw wPnkl. 

~ 
· Attention all Juniors: 
Summer Internship Opportunities 
The Environmental research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science & Technology, will award up to two Summer 2000 internships at ANL in argonne, IL-with a follow­up campus research appointment in the Fall. Stipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week pro­gram. 
Swdent crpp/icants .vhou{d have re.fearch interests in an environmentally­
related discipline (any fit:!d ofstudy) concerned with or likely to con­
rrihure to the understanding, assessment, or improvenumt ofthe environ­
ment. ApplicantJ must be US citizen.v or permanent resi4ents, enrolled · at Notre Dame, lwve completed their Junior Year bv MC1v 2000, and be 
regi.l'lered;to retum in the FC1ll of2000. · . 
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental Science & Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
Application deadline is February 23, 2000 


-

DELICOUS, FRESH-BAKED CINI-MINIS OR SAUSAGE EGG AND CHEESE BISCUIT. 
Ifyou don't consider yourself a morning person, perhaps these will make you reconsider. Delicious, hot Cini-Minis, from the: heart ofthe bun, or the tasty Sausage Egg and Cheese Biscuit. Hey. you may have to make your bed in the morning. but thanks to Burger King, at least you don't have to make your breakfast. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 

HJusttastes better. 
www.burgerlcing.com For a limited time. Price and participation may vary. 
Copyright 1999 Burger King Corporation Burger King Corporation is the exolu$il/e licensee of the Burger King Bun Halves and Crescent Logo and 1h11 'It just taster better" trademarlt and th registered Burger King trademark. 
Tuesday, February 22, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SOFTBALL 
Irish open with four wins 
the fifth before Oregon grabbed two more 

By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
for the early win in the bottom of the 

Spon, Wri1cr 
inning. 
Against the University of California at 

The Irish gra_bbr.d four wins and a loss Santa Barbara, freshman Andrea Loman in tlrnir season opener at the University of slammed a throe-run home!' over the Nnvada Las Vegas Tournament this past fence with two outs in the fifth inning to wrn,kmid. hand Notre Dame a 3-0 win. 
"Overall I thought it was a good weck­Freshman Andria B!Adsoe finished 4­<\nd." Notre Dame for-4 at the plate for Notre Dame while head so!'lbaH coach Liz 
Kriech was 2-for-4 with a triple. Notre Miller. "We did better Dame combined for a total of 14 hits as a team and the against UC-Santa Barbara. freshmen did a good Uefensively, Sharron grabbed her sec­job stt>pping up to llw ond win by allowing three hits and strik­competition." ing out eight. 
.Junior Melaniti Notre Uame ended its weekend with a \I ki rn IP d Lh (' lr is h 2-l win ov~r Utah. olTnnsiv1dy with a .5(d In the top of the lirsl inning, Rebei.;ca baLting 1;vorng<1 with Sharron Eirncn, a pinch runner for Sharron, f'iv<' !Oil's ovnr tho scored on a double by Alkire to give Notre lhrnP-day lournameut wbile pitcher Dame the lead. Utah retaliated in the IPnnil'er Slrnrron holds a 3-0 record after bottom of the inning to tie tlrn game. With giving UJ.l unly one earned run. two outs in the top of the third, Alkire 
"Sharron did a good job at being in con­scored on a single by junior Lizzy Lemire trol on the, mound, in all areas of' pitch­to secure thP Irish victory. ing," Miller said. Sharron allowed just three hits in her 
Notrn Damn started the wneknnd with a third straight win of the season. 5-'.~ win over Portland Stale on Friday. "Overall, l think we swung the bats 
Sharron !I'd the Irish defensively by aggressively," Mille!' said. "As a team, this allowing just f'our hits was our first big step in whilo striking out I0. "Overall I think we developing strengths Sop horn on• .l nnn ifor among ourselves."
swung the bats

Krinch finished 3-f'or-] ThP Irish struggled as
aggressively. As a team,

offensively while J\lki re they played outside for grabbed an RBI and a this was our first big step the first time this sea­run. son, particularly in run­
in developing strengths

Michnlle Moschel and ning the bases. 
among ourselves."

,\lkirP combined to shut "We did not anticipate out Southern Utah 8-0 or make the best judge­while giving up just two ments in base running,"
Liz Miller 

hits and striking oul Miller said. "This is
softball head coach

11ight. The Irish grabbed where our lack of out­ni1H! hits in tlw fivc!-door practice really inning game with Alkire showed, but we adjusted i(iading with a two-run homer in the bot­quickly for the conditions." tom of the fourth. Notre Dame travels to Fayetteville, Ark., 
NolrP Dame !'ell L() Oregon 11-3 this weekend to participate in the Saturday for their only loss or the tourna­Morning News Invitational. nwnt. "Five games were tough to do," Miller 
With the Ducks leading 3-1, Notre Dame said. "It was physically draining, but we gave, up six runs in a single inning. The were able to handle that. The big test will Irish closed the gap Lo 9-3 in the top of be six games this weekend." 

Oel/l,,.e,""r1f Tk !}1i~ Rzza,I 
CLUB SPORTS 

Ski team finishes sixth 
Special to The Observer 

The ski club's season came to a prnmature end this weekend as the team fell .03 seconds short of quali­fying for the national champi­onships. 
The sixth-plai.;e Irish finish at Regionals was the best in school his­tory. Five varsity programs edged the Irish, with national NCAA power Northern Michigan winning the tournament. St. Olaf and St. Thomas, ranked first and third nationally by the USCSA, placed sec­ond and fifth, with Minnesota and Minnesota Duluth finishing third and fifth, respectively. . 
Seniol' Nikki Douillet completed a standout career, ranking 13th in the slalom and 12th in the giant slalom. Molly Munsterer capped her break­out season with a sixth-place slalom run and an 11th place in the giant slalom, .04 seconds ahead of Douillet. 
Ellen Block moved to third in the line-up, rnplacing skiel's attending Parents' Weekend, and rose to the occasion with a very respectable 32nd in the slalom. Kate Ryan, Elisha Hines, Katy Vossvinkel and Randi Sliva rounded out tho strongest contingent in school histo­ry. 
Mike Ryan's 18th in the slalom highlighted the men's competition, as the club finished 15th, in the middle of the pack. 
Equestrian 

The equestrian club earned Reserve High Point honors with a second-place finish behind Illinois at Purdue's IHSA show last weekend. 
Diana Mastej's first place in her open flat class, Jackie Nesson's first in intermediate flat and Suzy Weber's second in novice fences qualified all three for Regionals at Taylor University on April 22. Sheridan Griffin, who also placed first in an open flat class and Laura Anderson had already qualified. 
Bowling 
The toughest lane conditions of the season at the ACUI Regional 9 tournament at Indiana University, coupled with the annual loss of members for Junior Parents' Weekend resulted in the lowest averages of the year for the bowling club. 
Dan Buttke's 178 average paced the club while Jason Pawlak's 166, Kevin Gertken's 146 and Colin Boylan's 139 -all about 30 pins below their season average ­rounded out the team scoring. 
The featured ll'ish performance belonged to Anne Deitch, who rolled a 172 avernge, to place fourth among the top 50 women. 
Tho club will return to action in two weeks at Ohio State's Buckeye Classic. 
Rodeo 
The rodeo club opened its compet­itive season at the Michigan State University Rodeo Championships. 
Neal Driscoll. club president, teamed with Brent Cherry to claim seventh place in the team roping competition with a 17.9 second average. Driscoll also paired with Adam Smith of Abraham Baldwin for a 27.5 second showing, good enough for 25th place in the event. 
Karoline Pershell competed in two events for the Irish, bull riding and barrel racing, finishing 21st in the latter, in 15 .18 seconds. 
Men's volleyball 
The volleyball club, also under­manned because of Junior Parents' Weekend, posted a 2-3 record at the Midwest Regionals at Marquette. Two victories over Calvin were off­set by losses to Marquette, Iowa State and University of Wisconsin­Oshkosh. 
Read The Observer online at observer.nd.edu 

SAINT 

~

MARY'S


C3@ru\l ~ul@ @ . ®@lh Lf(!]@~<flal~gg 
ELECTIONS 
Anytime 
Anytime you call between you call between 

FOR CLASS OFFICERS
10:30-12:59
5:30 & 7:00, 
the price of your 

AND THE N£W
the price of your 2 large 1 

STUDENT DIVERSITY BOARD
large 1 topping 
topping pizzas 

ARE ON W£DNESDAY!
pizza 
is the time you call.
is the time you call. 

VOT£ IN TH£ DINING HALL
* Plus tax
* Plus tax 

7-9AM, Jl-'2.PM, S-7PM 
r---------------,
Lunch Special
1 1 

OFF-CAMPUS STUDtNT VOTING ND store 1 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint. Mary's/ 
1 Small 1 Topping 1 

IN THE HAGGAR. GAM£ ROOM JI-JPM 
I $5 99 I •
L ______ _:. ______ ...1 North Village Mall 


;~-:~...;....-:::-:_;;.._... ~r:.
271-1177 
.•.;:
27:1-PAPA 


:------------------------­page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 22, 2000 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

NBA 
Abdul-Jabbar finally 
Irish fall to Cardinal, Trojans 

By KEVIN RERCHOU Spores W ri,er 
It was a weekend of spectac­ular highs and crushing lows !'or the Irish women's tennis team. 
Playing in the USTA/ITA National Women's Team Indoor Championships. the Irish rode a roller coaster of' Pmotion to a solid seventh­pla.ce liHish. 
The 17th-ranked Notre Dame women kicked off the weekend in style as Lhey besl­ed 12th-ranhd William and tvlury. 5-2. in tho tournament's first round. 
"I thought we played extremely well against Wil.liam and Mary," head coach Jay Louderback said. "To beat a great team like that is always a thrill." 
The upset was fuelerl by the brilliant play of the doubles tandems. 
The pairing of junior star Michelle Dasso and sophomore Becky Varnum scorPd an 8-3 victory over William and '.\tlary's coupling of Delphine Troch and Carolijn van Rossum. The 17th-ranked combination of junior Kimberly Guy and freshman Katie Cunha then notched an impressive 8-6 win to clinch the doubles point. 
"The doubles keep getting the job done," Louderback noted. "They're still the strength of this team." 
As the match .shifted lo sin­gles play, the Irish continued to be strong. Notre Dame took four of the six singles matches contested to send William and Mary packing. With the win, the Irish advanced to the quarterfinals for the first time since 1995. 
The second round, however would not prove as kind. ' 
Notre Dame faced the diffi­cult task of battling Stanford, the top-ranked squad in the country. The Irish put forth an admirable effort but they could not fly as high as the Cardinal, dropping a 5-2 deci­sion. The Stanford lineup. which featured five ranked singles players, was too much for I\Jotre Dame in the end. 
"We went in thinking we had a chance," Louderback said. "They won a couple of close matches that could have aone either way and they're ;bvi­
ously the best team  in the  
country."  
The Irish raced  to  a  fast  

start as Dasso and Varnum netted a victory over Stanford's Marissa i"rvin and Teryn Ashley in No. 1 doubles, but stumbled and lost the dou­bles point when the Cardinal rallied to take the No. 2 and No. 3 matches. 
Stanford finished off Notre Dame by winning four of the six singles matches. 
Despite the loss, Louderback was enthused. 
"We played well and lost a tight one to a good team," Louderback said. "I think we're a bit better than I antici­pated at this point in the year. We 'II just be looking for more consistent play in the singles." 
After falling to Stanford, Notre Dame was eliminated as it fell 5-2 to the No. 13 Trojans of Southern California. 
A new experimental l'ormat contributed to Notre Dame's demise in singles play. Instead of playing a third singles set, the tournament's format pro­vided for a match tiebreaker, with the first player to reach 10 points earning the victory. The Irish stretched three of the six singles matches into a tiebreaker but lost all of them. 
"That did hurt us, Louderback said. "When you play a full third set, you have more chances to win." 
The new formal, however. did make for faster play. "The matches wine very fast-paced and exciting," 

lands coaching job 
Louderback noted. "It was a weekend of highs and lows." 
The Irish will look to get back on track Saturday when they travel to North Carolina to take on the Tarheels in a dual match. 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Mayl.Jc they didn't think he was serious. Maybe t.hcy didn't think the NBA's career scoring leador would be will­ing to sit on the sidelines as an assistant coach. Maybe he intimidated them. 
Wha.t1wer thP reason, nobody seemed to believe Kareem Abdul-Jabbar when he said he wanted to coach. There WP.re cursory conver­sations. almost courtP.sies for one of the cornerstone play­ers in NBA history, but noth­ing morn than that. 
"I can't attribute motives," Abdul-Jabbar said Monday, as he prepared for his sec­ond game as an assistant with the Los Angeles Clippers. "I don't know if I was black•balled. I was taken aback when I couldn't get any interviews. That bothered me. It was frustrat­ing." 
Finally, the Clippers, reconstructing their bench staff, docided Abdul-Jabbar could lrnlp new head coach Jim Todd. "Friday at 10, I was retired in my house," he said. "Friday at noon, I had a job." 
Abdul-Jabbar has wanted this chance l'or a long time. lie said there were conversa­tions with GMs Al Attles at Golden State and Wayne Embry at Cleveland and for­m al interviews with Wes Unseld at Washington and Ernie Grunfeld when he was with the Knicks. 
There were, however, no 
offers. 
"The chancellor at UCLA talked to me when Jim Barrick got in a bind there,'' Abdul-Jabbar said. 
Nothing came of that con­versation, either. 
"When I retired, I was very burned out," he said. "It took three or four years Lo gel my equilibrium back. I wrolf! three books. 1 did family stuff, made up time with my kids. It took three or four years before I wanted to get back in." 
l'hc itch to coach became eVfrn more intense last year whim Abdul-Jabbar worked with the basketball team at White Mountain Apache Reservation in Whitcriver, Ariz. 
The Clippers, equipped with the youngest team and the worst record in the NHA decided to give him a chance: 
"This is the best situation for me," he said. '"!;hey need help. San Antonio with David Robinson and Tim Duncan? They don't need a whole lot of help. 
"A whole lot of about the game is not being translated. Stuff I learned in grade school. People mastering the fundamentals of the game, learning how to play as a team, how to help teammates on defense. 
"You've got kids with size and agility but they don't know how to get it done with four others." 
With the Clippers, the most productive big man in bas­ketball history will work on the inside game. lie calls himself a troubleshooter. 





Tuesday, february 22, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

SMC 
continued from page 24 
win. 
Although Matha lr.d tlw learn in rebounding. total points and sLmtls. she dons not want to b(• called the star of the game. 
"It was a total team effort." she said. "EveryonP was just knocking down shots when th11y rwedPd to." 
Matha had support in scoring from Norman 1.-vilh 11 points and sophomurn .lainw Stouffer 
Electrical 
Engineering 
Open House 
Engineering intents, 
check out the cool jobs you can have as an Electrical Engineer. Tour our state-of-the-art 
labs. Talk to engineering students and faculty. 
Have some food; we start serving at 6 p.m. 
Don't be late. 

258 Fitzpatrick Hall TUesday, February 22 & to 7:30 p.m. 
e x a m n e y o u r options 

Track 
continued from page 21 
Saturday and finals on Sunday, followed by the :1,000-meter run two hours later. His performance was no worse off for the challengo, as he placed third in the mile lwith Boyas runners taking first and fourth). succeeded by a fourth place finish in the 3,000-rneter run. 
·'Jt was a tough double to rnn, the mile and then the 3,000 two hours later," Watson sairl. ''I'm not really used to that." 
In the 5,000-meter run, Ryan Shay and Marc Striowski ran for fifth and sixth places, respectively. 
A big difforencc in the scor­ing came in the relays. Georgetown outraced Notre Dame in the 4x800-meter relay, 4x400-meter relay and distance medley relay. 
Cochran seized victory in the 60-meter dash and the 400-meter run. His 60-meter time of 6.79 seconds was a new meet record. In the 400­meter run, he won in a time of 47.76. 
"I was very pleased to go out my senior year winning the events I was entered in," Cochran said. "Basically in the Big East, I was just look­ing to do my best, to win." 
Senior Marshaun West excelled in his return from a hamstring injury, winning the long jump and taking over second in the 200-meter dash. The Irish went one-two in the long jump, as Gilbert was the runner-up behind West. 
Fellow senior Matt Thompson took third in the 35-lb. weight throw, record­ing a hurl of 17 .97 meters. Sophomore Quill Redwine earned third in the triple jump. 
The women's squad placed sixth of 13 teams in the con­ference, dropping from third place a year ago. 
"Obviously we didn't do as well as we were supposed to," sophomore sprinter Liz Grow said. "That happens on any given day. We just didn't perform up to par." 
Villanova and Georgetown duked it out for the champi­onship, with Villanova con­quering its competitor 101 to 
100.5. Miami placed third, 

followed by Seton Hall and West Virginia, with Notre Dame taking sixth with 68.5 points. 
"We were ready and nrnn­tally prepared," freshman Tameisha King said. "A lot of other teams stepped up." 
Notre Dame's strong areas were the field events, where it picked up the majority of its points. 
King capturnd second in the long jump, with her Sf!a­son-best leap of 20-4 :v4. 
"I was excited about. mv long jump because it was ai'.i improvement," King said. 
Fellow freshman Jaimf) Volkmer jumped to fourth place in the triple jump. 
In the high jump. senior All-American Jen Engelhardt earned second by leaping 5-9 3/4. Connecticut's Tamika Toppin cleared the bar at !i­HJ 3/4, besting Engelhardt for the fourth straight year indoors. 
Volkmer vaulted to second in tho Big East with a vault of 11-3 3/4, and Natalie Hallett joined her in Irish scoring with a fourth-place finish. 
Also in the field events, Emily Bienko, a senior, was fourth in the Big East pen­tathlon with 3,349 total points. Sophomore Dore DeBartolo placed sixth in the 20-lb. weight throw and eighth in the shot put. 
Grow was the lone victor for the Irish women, racing to first in the 400-meter run in a time of 55.27 seconds. She crossed the line a hair ahead of West Virginia's Tameca Williams, who com­pleted the race in 55.28. 
"I really wanted to win, and I thought I could win." Grow said. "I just try to run to win, and time usually takes care of itself." 
The Irish were shut out of all other individual running events except the 5,000­meter run. in which senior All-American Alison Klemmer took seventh. 
Both the 4x400-meter relay and the distance medley relay took fourth for Notre Dame. 
The 4x400-meter relay team of Carri Lenz, Amanda Alvarez, Kymia Love and Grow set a new school record with a time of 3:45.29. 
The Irish will rest this weekend and return to action at home with the Alex Wilson Invitational March 3-4. 
who recorded 10 points in the win. 
The eighth-rankucl Belles will fac(1 thP Comnts of !lope Collr.ge toniglit in thP next 
we can do it," Norman said. "13ig upsels take place every night. With this momentum behind us, anything can hap­pen. We just need to keep our heads in the game and play hard the entire game." 
A victory against Hope will not depend on another super­star performance by Matha. The entire team will need to step up and compete on IIope's level. 
"That's the great thing about our team," Norman said. "We don't have one superstar, but someone always steps up." 
round of tlrn playoffs. I lope is ranked lirst in tlw MIA,\ head­ing into today's game. I!opH has won both prcwious meet­ings with Saint Mar) ·s by a 
margin  of'  more  than  25  
points.  
llowPvnr.  even  with  the  

Flying Dutch's daunting 14-2 league rncord, tlw BPll(is feel tlwv lrnv<i a diancn. 
"i Lhink the key is lwlieving 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 22, 2000 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame tops Wisconsin, drops match to Miami 
By RACHEL BIBER Sports Writer 
The Irish had their oppo­nents right where they wanted them. but they couldn't get tne job done. 
After a 7-0 blanking of the Wisconsin Badgers on Friday, 29th-ranked Notre Dame was rnady to take t'ull advantage of the borne court edge against 32nd-ranked Miami (Fla.). but the Hurricanes had other plans, taking Sunday's match­
~ ')

up, :i-~. 
"We had a good crowd, and we were on our home court." Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. "It's an opportunity we let slip away, and it's a big disappoint­ment to me." 
Notre Dame's sweeping victo­rv over Wisconsin began the ~eekend's play on a much sw1-1eter note. with each player in the lineup coming away with straight set victories in singles 
play 
The Irish started against the Badgers by stealing away the doubles point with an intense and narrow victory in the deci­sive No. I match bv the 53rd­rankert duo of Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico. The two rallied for ll 9-8 (7-ll win over 42ncl-ranked David Chang and Scott H.utherford. 
Down 3-6. Talarico and Taborga came up with two key breaks of serve and won four consocutive games to take a 7­6 lead. In the tiebreaker. they stormed out to a 5-0 lead before eventually taking the matt;h and securing the dou­blPs point for th<' Irish. 
Seniors Trent Miller and Ryan Sachire had no problHms brcPzing to an 8-1 victory at i\o. 2 doubles over the Badger's Justin Haker and Adam Schumacher. 
Matt Daly, seeing action for the first time since being ham­pered by a shoulder injury, and Ashok Haju wern trippP-d up at No. 3 doubles 9-8 (12-10) by Wisconsin's Jason Gonzaga and Dannv Westerman, in a match that featured a number of match points for both teams in the tiebreak. 
Sophomores Casey Smith and Andrew Lal'lin quickly cush­ioned the Irish lead with wins at No. 2 and No. 5 singles respectively. Smith downed Wisconsin's Change 6-4, 6-4, while Laflin edged by Stefan Reist 7-6 (7-5) in the first set before steamrollering through thP second SPt, 6-0. 
Taborga clinched the win for the Irish at No. 4 singles with a 6-4, 7-5 win over the Badgers' Schumacher. After blowing the second set wide open with a commanding 4-0 lead, Taborga watched his opponent creep back in contention for the set, but held on for the win. 
The Irish completed tho 7-0 sweep of the Badgers by claim­ing the remaining three match­es in second-set tiebreakers. 
Seventeenth-ranked Sachire topped Wisconsin's Westerman 7-5, 7-6 (7-4) at No. 1 singles. while Notre Dame's Talarico came back from a 2-5 rlcficit in the second Sflt to gain victory over Rutherford h-4. 7-6 (7-:1) at No. 4 singles. Brian fiarrell also mounted a second-set comP.back by rallying t'rom 2-4 to overcome the Badgers' Dustin Friedman 6-4. 7-6 (7-41. 
After the Badgers left town, the Miami Ilurricancs came whirling through to hand the Irish their first loss since a Jan. 29 tlefoat against the Indiana Hoosiers, snapping a four­match winning streak. The loss ldt Notre Uame with a 5-3 rocord, while Miami n•mains undefeated with seven wins. 
'.\itiami notched a 1-0 lead by securing the doublPs point with wins at l\os. 2 and 3 doubles. The Hurricane,;' Mike Lang and Jose Lieberman clinched the doubles point by rallying for a 9-8 (7-4) win over Sachire and Miller at No. 2 doubles. The Irish pairing had the opportunity l'or victory with two match points at 7-6. hui. let Uw match slip away. 
Notre Dame's Daly and Raju also witnessed a comeback by thflir opponent. as Miami's !\lark Arrowsmith and Joel Herman overcame a 5-2 deficit to pull out an 8-6 victory The No. 1 doubles match was sus­pended at 7-7 between Talarico and Taborga, and the Hurricanes· Hoffman and Smid when the doubles point was awarded lo Miami. 
All-American Sachire and Laflin provided the lone points for the Irish by locking up vic­tory in the Nos. 1 and 4 singles matches, respectively. 
Sachire conducted business as usual, improving his singles record to 20-6 on the vear with a 6-3, 6-2 drubbin"g of the Hurricanes' Smid. Lanin had no problems disposing of Miami's Arrowsmith, breezing to victory, 6-0, 6-0. 
After the two Irish wins. the Hurricanes tore through the rest of the lrisb lineup, earning straight-set victories at Nos. 2, 
3. and 4 singles. The Hurricanes' Johan Lindquist topped Daly 6-4, 6-3 at No. 2, Hoffman defeated Irish sopho­more Smith 6-2, 6-4 at No. 3, while tho Hurricanes' Lieberman barely escaped Talarico 6-3, 2-6, 7-5 at No. 5. 
Disappointment charader­iwd the Irish camp after the Hurricanes claimed victory, but the opportunities to top thR rival opponent were just not 
•

: ~ dal} 8:30 p.m. ! 0° Ce h.. Rockne 30U 
,y./ll. : 
.lJ us : 
•
•

• 
r •
This Tuesd~y lear~­
the 'lc-xtt--c-t 

.$2 for a 45 minute beginner lesson. :$3 for a 90 minute beginner + !i advance lesson i 

seized quickly enough. come through. Against 
"Miami has a good team. I Wisconsin, they were the ones give them a lot of credit." to blink -against Miami, we Rayliss said. "We just didn't WPrfl the onPs to blink." 
The team will attempt to return to winning ways Saturday .at home against Purdue. 


Applications for the 2000-2001 Board of Governance are now being accepted! 
Pick yours up at the Haggar Front Desk! 
Applications due Monday, Februarv 28 th at 5pm Questions? Please call Crissie at x5212 or Michelle at x5223 

Tuesday, .February 22, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
·­

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
DOE..SIJ'i 60T~E.~ '( Wr\t.N I NE.E.ti 10 ~;rvctr' 
t-11',1
i\O,T '(OV 1-\A.\/E:llJ. -:X: 0,N 'i>ISM'\>E!o.'K lNTO tr-IE. L.1~1>.~'( FOR DAYS. 11,.T "' "Tl t-\'i:: 

Fox TROT 

RecSport:. Office Rolfs Sports Recreation Center
Deadline for all: February 24th 
1·6100 • http://www.nd.edu/Nrec:.port 

I'M YOUR 
WIFE. 
../ 


beam.1 @nd edu 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Red Cross 59 Simone de 1 Boston team, supply Beauvoir, to informally 33 Sea sound Sartre 6 Plant with a 34 Dundee denial 60 Just lying frond 35 Haughtiness around 1o Popular pens 36 One with a 61 "Butterfield 8" 14 Unique smiley face? author 15 • ... baked in 38 Motivate 62 Princes, e.g. " 39 Dodger, 63 Look 16 Kind of Brooklyn-style 64 Away testimony 40 "In a minute" 17 1966 sci-Ii 41 Wee one 
DOWN 

classic 42 Lurid pulp 
1 Joe, in France 

20 H,S. magazine 
2Zip

requirement founded in 1926 
3 Overshot

21 Baker's dozen? 46 Lodge member 
4 Rubble-maker

22 Having crow's­47 List wrap-up 
5 Albatross, e.g.

feet 48 Persian Gulf 23 Christie's port 
6 Like cows before slaughter 

"Death on the 51 Hawk's gripper 
" 53 "No _• (menu 7 Sweeping story 24 Some go for 6 phrase) 8 Like chocolate­or 12 mos. chocolate cake 
56 "Man of La 25 1970's-80's TV Mancha" tune, 9 Ariz. neighbor hero, with ''the" with "The" 10 Winningly youthful ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Mujahedin base 12 Zoo feature A A 13 Winter toy A V 18 Garage activity M A 19 but wiser P I ~~=--... • 23 Base figures, for 
AL ~ort 24 "Bravehearf 
~..;;...:...;.i,;.;.; •~~i,..;...i group 
25 Another name for ancient Troy ..--..--+--+-~ 26 Bellini opera ,.....;4,.;,.~ 27 Dungeon 5 
restraints i--+--+-,..+,o,. 28 Gift beautifier 1,.;..;.11--,1.,..0.,._R-1 29 Remove, as a 
I C A 28-Down E A N 30 Retreats 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://o~server.nd.edu/ 

Puzzle by Fran and Lou Sabin 
31 Composer Jerome 
54 Draped dress 
32 Rum cake 49 Bullets, e.g. 36 Go kaput, with 55 Gangster
50 It may be on a
"out" chaser
tennis ball 37 Cabin element 51 Almanac topic 57 Wine tasting? 38 Go yachting 52 Skilled 
58 Pi's follower 40"_Mamer" 41 "Beverly Hills 
90210" fellow Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 43 Six in a million? are available by touch-tone phone: 44 Person with lots 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
of bills Annual subscriptions are available for the 45 Native best of Sunday crosswords from the last so Oklahoman years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Drew Barrymore, Edward Kennedy, Sybil Leek, Michael Chang, Ryne Duren, Julius Erving . Happy Birthday: Forge ahead and you will do just fine. Fear is something you must disregard, as it will only hold you back. You must follow the more obscure direction in life to be happy and feel satisfied. You have so much to offer due to your abundance of knowledge and your experience. Your numbers: 4, 8, 16, 25, 31, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Moneymaking opportunities are evi­dent. You will never have a more auspicious time to do your own thing. Take heed of the financial advice from someone you respect 
000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Your creative talents will flourish today, You can work in fine detail. Take courses related to the arts. Get involved with children's projects. 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your 
best efforts will come through your 
ability to work with precision. You 
can achieve great things if you chan­
nel your energy into redecorating or 
renovations. 00000 
CANCER Qune 21-July 22): Part­nerships may blossom today if you allow open communication to take over. Opportunities for new loves will develop if you partake in group activities. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can 
raise your self-esteem, not to men­
tion your position in society by 
Birthday Baby: You have an abundance of chann. Everyone will want to get close to you, You will be able to use your powers of persuasion to get your own way throughout life. You are intuitive and sophisticated. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 10 2000 Universal Pn!ss Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 

contributing to your community. Your generosity and benevolence will attract members of the opposite 
sex,0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your involvement with group or organiza­tional events will lead to new roman­tic developments. Your practical per-­sonality will attract mates of an intellectual nature. 000 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-0cL 22): You can make extra money doing creative free-lance jobs. Take time to talk to friends who have not been well late­ly. Romance is evident if you get out and mingle. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel will be in your best interests. You can mix business with pleasure today. Do not hesitate to speak your mind to get the best results. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't tell others how you feel about important political issues at work. You may be alienated due to your beliefs and attitudes. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your creative talents and ability to work in detail will bring recognition from those in a position to help you promote your work. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your creative talents can be used to pursue hobbies. You can make home improvements cheaper by doing the work yourself. Overtime will pay big dividends. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your intellectual approach to your career will aid you in choosing the proper direction. Escapist tendencies will be your biggest downfall. 000 


Split 
Notre Dame's men's tennis 
team knocked offWisconsin. but fell to Miami over the weekend.
PORTS 

page 22 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, February 22, 2000 
BIG EAST TRACK AND FIELD CHAMPIONSHIPS 

Irish men return as runner-ups 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN A~sisunr Spores Editor 
The senior-dominated Irish couldn't gel over lhe hump. finishing as the runner-up in the Big East Indoors Track and Field Championships for the fourth straight year. 
Georgetown outdistanced Notre Dame in men's competi­tion 139 tu 125. but Notre Dame came closer to victory than in previous years. 
"\i\'henever you get second place, at least for us. you're never satisfied." sophomore distance runner Luke Watson said. "We know that we could have made up 13 points. But overall. it was a pretty strong performance." 
The I loyas edged thn Irish in several events. allowing them to turn the corner to triumph. 
"We knew it would bP a real­ly big challenge to beat them," senior sprinter Chris Cochran said. "They're a very good mid­dle-distance team. and the indoor championships are real­ly kind of structured around the middle distance." 
Although Irish seniors Tim Kober and Phil :\1ishka put forth strong performances in the 500-meter run, the 800­meter and the l 000-mPler. th(' Boyas (:ame oul with lhn advimtage thanks to a deeper squad. 
Kober captured second in the 800-meter run in a time of 8 heels in fourth and lif'th places. Despite his outstanding race. really came through for us and

minutes. 22.51 seconds, but 

Mishka smashed tlw Notre tlrn I loyas wern able to better scornd some much-neededGeorgetown had three runners Dame school record in the his scoring by placing three points," Watson said. 
in the top eight to top Kober's 1000-meter run bv owr a sec­runners in the top eight. Watson ran a difficult dou­

point total. Kober also took 

ond; taking lhn· runnnr-up "On the strnngth or Tim ble, with mile preliminaries on
third in the 500-meter run. 
position in a time of' 2:22.22. Kober and Phil Mishka. they
with Hoyas athletes on his 

see TRACKJpagc 21 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish host Hurricanes in Big East matchup 
pions for tlw lirst lime in school history. Notre Dame fans can thank the inside­By TIM CASEY But first. tlw focus is on tonight. when outside duo of Huth Hiley and Alicia 
Sports Wri,er 

'.'Jotre DamP hosts Miami at the Joyce B.atay for continuing the nation's longest Center. winning streak on Saturday against the Consider tlw wonHm's bask<ilball t()am Miami (11-13. 5-8) is Scarlet Knights. warned. They'\'(' bePn told time and coming off a (1<i-(11 loss to Hatay, the Big East rook­
Women's

timP. again by· their coaches of' th11 ulti­Georgetown on Saturday. ie of the week, was a per­
Basketball

mate cliche the "we\·<i got to take it one Senior Cina Crnziani scored fect seven-for-seven from game at a time" line, one of' the most a team-higli 18 points and No. 5 Notre Dame v~. the field, all from beyond popular phrases in prnss conferences dished out 8 assists for the the 3-point line, and fin­
Miami

and gyms everywhere. 1-lurricanos. rreshman ished with 26 points. She It's never more important than now. Alicia llarLlaub addtid l 6 . Where: Joyce Center was also live for six from The Irish (23-2. 14-0) are coming off points. the foul lino and added 10
. When: Tonight, 7 p.m.

their biggest win of the season. a 76-74 Sheila Jamns leads the rebounds. Ratav saved the overtime victory over the Hutgers llurricanos in scoring, best for last, hitting two 3­Scarlet Knights on Saturday, their 18Lh pouring in 12.G per game. p o inters in the final in a row. Ilautlab is th11 only other Miami player minute of regulation, including one with 
Next Saturday. NotrP Danrn !'aces its in double figures, contributing 10.5 3 .6 seconds remaining, to force over­nemesis Connecticut at Storrs, Conn., points per gamn. Graziani ranks second time. where Notre Dame alwavs seems to in Big lfast history with 450 assists, just Riley earned co-Hig East player of the struggle. Two more wins and the Irish 21 off of Providence's Shanya Evans will become undefeated Big East cham-record set from 1987-91. see IRISH/page 17 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles win MIMplay­off game 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Assis1,tnt Spores Editor 
The Saint Mary's basketball team made history Monday night by winning the first game that Belles' basketball has ever won in 
MIAA playoffs
t h C MI A A Saint Mary's 68 
playoffs 
Olivet 62 with a 68-62 victory over Olivet College. "'It's really exciting," said junior guard .Julie Norman. "It's kind of a nice turn around to a really long season. Now is the time we needed to peak, and we are.'" This win marks only the fourth win of the Belles' sea­son, making the victory that much sweeter. They dominated throughout the game, thanks largely to the play of freshman Kristen Matha. Matha recorded a game-high 25 points and car­ried both the scoring and the emotion of the team as she played. "I can't tell you how proud of her I am," Norman said. "She showed so much maturity as a freshman out there.'" The game was very physical. with both teams combining for 37 fouls by the sound of the buzz1~r. This type of game only inspires the Belles to step up their play, Matha said. "(A rough game] always fires up our team," she said. "Its just natural to get !ired up and want to score it in their face ... Saint Mary's capitalized on the foul shots it had. shooting 85 percent from the foul line for 17 points. Matha alone had 11 points from the line. The Belles' defense took advantage of' every opportuni­ty the Comets' offense allowed, scoring 22 points off or turnovers to the Comets' nine. Saint Mary's also had 12 fast break points in the game, while Olivet did not. register one. The Belles led by eight at thn half' and never relinquished the lead. They led by as many as 12 during the game. Olivet mounted a comeback near the end of the game, bringing it within five points many times, but Saint Mary's kept control and secured the 
see SMC/page 21 


at North Carolina 
:H Hope vs. Providence Softball Sacurday, noon
MIAA Championships Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. at Arkansas T ournamenr 
Today, 7:30 p.m. Friday-Sunday BaseballATA vs. Miami v,. Air Force at Loyola T ournamem vs. Purdue Today. 7 p.m. ar Millington, Tenn. Saturday, 8 a.m. Saturday, noon Thursday, 4 p.m. 
SPORTS 
GLANCE­



