keyplay over NDToday 
Two kids, awitch and a dew fairy
Jimmy Dillon and keyplay. com hung on 
The Notre Dame Opera brought Engelbert 
Monday
through weeks ofBookstore action to 
Humperdinck's "Hansel and Gretel" characters 
clinch the tournament, 21-17. 
to l{fe last weekend. Check out the review. 
MAYl,
Irish Insider 
Scene . page 13 
2000 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 129 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Law students aid local residents through ND Clinic 
By TIM LOGAN News Writer 
Adela wants to sf'e her children again. 
That is why the 50-year-old El Salvadoran has come to the Notre Dame Legal Aid Clinic for help filing for perma­nPnt rnsidenr-y in thfJ U.S. It is why she is sitting across thn table from third-year law student Kira Ludgri, telling someone slw's never met bd'orP about her f'amilv and lw,· life. · 
Tears run duwn .'\dela's face as she talks about lrnr two adult rhildren who have diPd in El Salvador since she came lo tlw Unitrd State's 10 years ago. She talks lovingly of tlw otllPr two, whom she hopPs to seP again someday. Adela, whose name has been changed because lwr case is still pending. was granted political asylum last year by the Seventh Circuit C:ourt in Chicago. and now the Bristol. Ind .. n•sident is beginning the two-yt>ar application process for perma­l1l'nt Li .S. residence. 
For more than a half'-hour. Adela and l.odgP sit ·at that table, going over the forms the El Salvadoran must fill out to beconrn an Anwrican -disrussing her rnsP in Spanish. the only language Adela knows well. 
This mother is· one of dozens of immi­grants who comes to tlw Legal Aid Clinic from all over Michiana each Tuesday and Thursday seeking help in navigating this country's immigration system. And Lodge is one of the student interns who gives them that help, free of charge. In return, she and other interns gain a learning experience that many call the most important of their law school careers. 

offered through the Legal Aid program, it dent and said the Legal Aid program was big deal to come to this country, to get a
The courses taught through the Legal Aid Clinic are not required for a Notre is one of the only chances for law students one of the main reasons he came to Notre job, to get permanent residency," he said. Dame law degree, nor do they focus on to gain experience outside the classroom. Dame Law School. His parents are both "Seeing the whole process they went legal theory or historic decisions. But "It adds a real perspective to the whole immigrants -from Mexico and El through made me want to help people to Legal Aid Immigration Clinic I and n do law school education," said immigration Salvador -and after graduating next reach their American Dream." provide students who are interested in clinic intern Rudy Monterrosa. "It's one year, he wants to return to the West Coast Several students who work at the Legal this growing field of law an opportunity to thing to read about it in books, but it's and help immigrants make their way in Aid Clinic, which, in addition to immigra­see firsthand what immigration is all another to see it in your clienl'>." the U.S. tion, also handles family law, consumer about. And. along with the other classes Monterrosa is a second-year law stu-"I saw how, for [my parents]. it was a see LEGAL/page 6 

Report calls for more student involvement 
• Board of Trustees to review student government plan 
By LAURA ROMPF Assiscanr News Edicor 
After weeks of research and intervie\vs, student government will rnll for increased student involvement in University deci­sion-making in its spring Board of' Trustees report. presented this week by John Osborne and Mark Donahey. 
"This semr,stcr's report dis­cusses the role of the students in University decision-making," said Osborn. "We were moti­vated by what we pcrr-eived to be discontent among the stu­dent body about the way sever­al recent decisions were made by the University -non-dis­crimination. sweatshops. sophomore siblings, etc." 

The report calls for enhanred student involvement in gover­nance at both the collegiate and university levels. Osborn said. · 
• '"I think [student involvement isl a very feasible idea. We're not proposing major. radical changes, but a few easy and logical improvements to the existing systflm," Osborn said. 
lie added, however. that in order l'or the plan to succeed­ed, it must have cooperation from all levels. 
see REPORT/page 4 
ND, SMC discuss WRC future 
By MOLLY McVOY Saint Mary's E<liror 
Representatives of Saint Mary's and Notre Uame attended a Worker's Rights Consortium (WRC) convention in Chicago last weekend to dis­
cuss the organization's govern­ing hoard and policies and to ask questions about the labor watchdog's institutional identi­
t
y. 
Saint Mary's attended as a voting member, whiJe Notre Dame, which is still a member of the Fair Labor Association (FLA}, attended as an observ­er. This was the first WHC event that was open to non­members. 
"I think it was very success­ful," said Sandy Vander'Werven, the Saint 
"ft was great to know that other schools, both members and non­members, have exactly the same questions we do.,, 
William Hoye Notre Dame WRC representative 
rapidly and the people [who are not members] seem very interested." William Hoye, the represen­tativo from Notre Dame, 
explained that the University had many questions about the WRC's governing, finance and 
policies that they wanted answered before they consider taking any steps. "I tho1;1gh~ it went well," Hoye said. It was great to 
Mary's representative. "The ---know that other schools, both group seems to be moving members and non-members, 
have exactly the same ques­tions we do. It was also frus­trating that a lot of' our ques­tions have just not been answered. The WRC is still in such an early stage." 
The structure of the working groups that will determine the consortium's organization were discussed at the meeting. Once the governing board is elected by e-mail this week, that body will appoint working group members. The groups will r-onsider and finalize the bylaws and pplicies, and the entire organization will meet again in June to begin imple­mentation. 
There also was discussion about cooperation with the FLA, VanderWerven said. 
"We want to open up a dia­logue between the FLA and the WRC," she said. "It sounds like 
see WRC/page 4 
• I .. ,.' 

Monday, May I, 2000
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Red and Proud 
Although you'd never know it from my pic­
ture. I have red hair. 
l spent many years trying to deny this, even 
going so far as trying to dye my hair brown. The 
dye actually only made my hair look redder. 
It's tough being a red­
head. You go through life 
with perfect strangers 
touching your hair and 
commenting on it. If your 
parents are dark-haired ­
like mine -you hear far 
more than your fair share 
of "postman" jokes. The 
number one question peo­
ple ask redheads? 
"Where'd you get your 
hair?" Many redheads in 
brunette families go 
through childhood secretly 
convinced they're adopted. 
You get nicknames like 
"Carrots," "Haggedy Anne," 
"Duracell" (the copper top). "Big Red," "Penny," 
"Little Orphan Annie," "Honald McDonald's ille­
gitimate child." and -my favoritP -"Pippi 
Longstocking." Everyone thinks it's funny to 
give you Big Red gum for your birthday. You 
endure dozens ofjokes about qL1ick tempers ­
and it certainly doesn't help if you actually have 
a quick temper. 
People will demand to know where you get 
your hair done or what dye you're using. Some 
people become downright abusive when you 
insist it's natural. and that your eyebrows are 
just naturally a different color than your hair. 
Cutting class? Forget it. You're the first one in 
class whose name the professor learns. You 
might as well sit in the front row and get the 
brownie points, since you have to be there any­
way. 
Your friends, however. appreciate how easy it 
is to find you in the dining hall or pick you out 
in the crowd. And remind vou of that fact inces­
santly: "I just looked for your hair." (If you're 
wearing a hat, your own parents can't find you. 
I'm not kidding.) 
There's something about red hair that makes 
people feel the need to point it out -"Gosh. you 
have red hair," -as if you've never noticed. 
This is most prevalent among strange men try­
ing to pick up a redhead. I've heard everything 
from the simple to the downright perverse, my 
favorite being a man who approached me and 
announced {language censored for family news­
paper). "God, I love redheads. I've always want­
ed to sleep with a redhead." 
Forgive me for NOT jumping at that chance. 
As I grow older, I appreciate the uniqueness, 
despite the difficulty in finding make-up that 
doesn't make me look like a French whore. 
Redheads make up about five percent of the 
U.S. population. We're an elite group with a certain esprit de corps. It isn't just a hair color, it's a state of mind. 
Redheads share certain experiences, from old ladies in church to childhood nicknames. from tales of scary fetishists to an affinity for Anne of Green Gables. We can discuss our sunburn problems and solutions endlessly (I swear by Bain de Soleil 8-hour waterproof). We know that true redheads have "opinions" on dye-jobs, ranging from the indifferent to the downright scornful. fQuoth a fellow redhead: "You can absolutely tell a dyed redhead from a natural one any day!") 
Though we may never be as trendy as blondes or as stylish as brunettes. we're happy to find ourselves trussed in shades of red. orange, auburn. ginger, copper, rust. titian and even crimson. We mav be few in number, but wr're easy to pick out in a rrowd. 
· The 1•iews expressed in the inside Column 
are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Michelle Krupa Amanda Greco Jason Mcbrley 
Graphics 

Kiflin Turner 
Scott Hardy Sports 
Production 

Noah Amsradtcr 
Lauren Bcrrig,rn 

Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Colleen Caughen 
Joe Stark 

The Observer (USPS 5')9 2-'iil00) is p11blish,d Monday through Friday excepr during ~x.tm .tnd v-,1c..,"cuion periods. The Observer is a member of the A.ssociare<l Press. All rcpro<lucrion ri!')llS are reserved. · 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Confirmation: The  . Panel: "!Iistory, Morals  
Sacrament or Confirnrn.lion,  and Philosophy," Ifobert  
Father Daniel Jenky,  Pippin and Charles  
Sacred Heart. 7:30 p.m,  Larmore, Hesburgh Center  
. Lecture: "The Intellect- Lounge. 4:15 p.m.  
ual Origins ofTotalitarian­ . Meeting: Faculty  
ism,"Hesburgh Auditorium.  Senate. McKenna llall,  
7:30 p.m.  Room 202. 7 p.m.  

Wednesday 
. 
Seminar: "Dante's Infer­no: Instructions for Usn," ThP.odorn Cachey, Hesburgh Center. Hoom 102, 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. 

. 
Film: "Once Were War­riors," Montgomery Thea­ter, 8 p.m. 


Thursday 

. 
Lecture: "Weapons of Mass Destruction and Urn Islamic Ethics or War," Sohail Ilashmi. 1-lesburgh Center, Room 103, Noon 

. 
Music: Spring concert, ND Symphony Orchestra. Washington Hall, 8 p.m. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Nike breaks off negotiations with Michigan 
ANN AHBOH, Mich. 

Two-and-a-half months ago, it appeared that Michigan would renew its contracts with Nike lo provide athletic footwear and apparel for the Michigan Athletic Department through August 2006. 
But Nike director of college sports marketing Kit Morris told The Michigan Daily Thursday that the wmpany has withdrawn from nego­tiations with the university and that he "doesn't foresee reentry." 
"There was a meeting of the minds, and it became apparent that we couldn't agree to terms." Morris said. Michigan made the "require­ment that we would have to live by an undisclosed code of conduct that would require Nike to adhere to any demands made during the contract." 
Michigan interim ahtletic director Bill Martin said Michigan's support 
"It came down to one issue. [The WRC issue] was what it was all about," Martin said. 
According to Martin, Nike felt uneasy about the university's rela­tionship with the WRC -an organi­zaiton that supports and verifies licensee compliance with production codes of conduct. 
In a statement releasr,d by the 

Texas A&M murder suspect arrested 
COLLEGE STATION. Texas 

Kenny Wayne Lockwood. a 31-year-old San Antonio man, was arrested Thursday in the dPath of Texas A&M student Kerry Kujawa. Kujawa. a junior mechanical engineering major. was l'ound dead on a ranch outside of Austin shot in the back or the head, last Wednesday. April 19 after being reported missing April 17. Authorities said they believe Kujawa was killed shortly after he lnft College Station on April 7 to meet a girl named "Kelly" from San Antonio. whom he had met over the Internet. Lockwood admitted to police that he had been posing as Kelly in Internet chatrooms and in email correspondence with Kujawa. Kujawa told friends he would return to College Station on April 10. After days had passed and he failed to return, Kujawa's parents received email messages purportedly form him. Thr. emails usually ended with "Everything is okay. I'll be back in a few days" "Kelly's" email address was used to send the email messages to Kujawa·s parents and friends, officials said. Authorities said tracing the emails from Lockwood were key in cracking the case. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
.,............... ,........ 

f"'-,,.,......~  H  L  
Monday  ~  61  46  
Tuesday  ~  65  47  
Wednesday  c.£Q  73  53  
Thursday  L1  76  56  
Friday  £[j  79  57  

~..~ 
8,Q,~qgQr)~u 
Showers T-storms Pein l'fur;ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Prsss GraphicsNBI 


company, Nike said it was "surprised that the agreement the university submitted to NikP. contained specific nr.w parameters compelling the com­pany to comply with the university's undefined and still evolving Labor Standards and Human Rights Policy." 
"Michigan has been very clear that it requires its licensees to abidr by its code of conduct." WRC governing board representative Peter Friedman said. "Nike will lose exposure by not having the maize and blue "swoosh" 
on football Saturdays." 

The WHC. which hopes to appoint a governing body this summer. would like to eventually set up a watchdog system over companies including Nike. By becoming a provisional member of the WRC on Feb. 18. Michigan established a new set of rules by which a licensing agent must abide. 
Directors seek basketball reform 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
The NCAA Division I Board of Directors approved a broad range of measures aimed at reforming collegiate men's basketball Thursday. The governing body, which is composed of 18 university presidents. pulled a rare surprise move by approving a proposal that had not been sent to it by the Division I Management Council. The board approved a measure instructing the council to draft legislation that would take away one scholar­ship from schools that graduate men's basketball play­ers at a rate below 50 percent. The Management Council rejected a number of similar proposals, but chairman Graham Spanier and the rest of the board deemed the issue serious enough to merit legislation. "My presidential colleagues and I believe that the cur­rent graduation rates arc unacceptable," said Spanier. who is president of Penn State University. "We want to send a very strong message throughout the country and to the schools that graduation rates matter." Since the board has only instructed the Management Council to draw up legislation. no timetable has been set for implementation or the measure. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, May 1. 50 4os Lines separate hIgn temperature zones for the day. 

e 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY PreaJJre. 
ii.\_ 

~i,;fj~~­
® © D CJ ~ .. [TI D ,.::~~'.

High Low St1owers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny""' Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via A8soc,arf!d Prets  
Atlanta  83  63  Las Vegas  92  65  Portland  69  51  
Ballimore  74  57  Memphis  85  64  Sacramento  79  54  
Boston  61  51  Milwaukee  65  49  St. LOUIS  68  54  
Chicago  65  48  New York  63  55  Tampa  85  62  
Houston  87  70  Philadelphia  73  57  Wash. DC  75  58  

Monday, May 1, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page~ 
SMC trustees OK investments 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI S:1im Marv's News Editor 
Tlw Saint Mary's Board of TrustePs mt\l Saturday to approvP an investment policy and nnxt year's budget. to recd vP u pd at()S on the Master Plan. strategic plan­ning and Student Lifo, and to discuss suveral important purchasns f'or the CollegP. 
ThP board approved an lnvcslmPnt Commillen policy which 1•slublishm; a range for thl' Col Ing(~ ·s endownrnn l IL111d. clarilfos Saint Mary's s11cial responsibility and declares that tlw College will not invPst in organizations thut deal with nuclear weapons, weapons produc­tion or tobacco products. according to Keith Dennis, vice president for finance and 1\dministration. 


Dennis also presented the results of the Investment Committee's search for a "small rap" investment man­ager and reported the progress Saint Mary's has madn in thfl construction of a shipping and receiving C()n­tcr. 
"Wn approved funds for purchasing a parcel of land that is norlh or the Facilities Building as part of th(' project for a shipping and rorniving center," Dennis said. "IL will 
nrrn 
casrt? 
Look no further-the OIT is HIRING! 
Cluster Consultants (suMMER/FALL EMPLOYMENT) 
DUTIES INCLUDE: 
-ASSISTING USERS & FELLOW CONSULTANTS -MAINTAINING A PLEASANT WORK ENVIRONMENT -ADMINISTERING THE CLUSTER POLICIES & PROCEDURES 
Resident Computer Consultants (FALL) 
DUTIES INCLUDE: 
TROUBLESHOOT ING INSTALLING & REPAIRING NETWORK CONNECTIVITY OF RESIDENT COMPUTERS IN THE RESIDENCE HALLS ANSWERING GENERAL INTERNET SOFTWARE QUESTIONS 
Apply now at http://www.nd.edu/-ndoit/employ 
Questions? Call 631-8417
.¦ 
.¦ 
have two loading docks, one !'or semis an<l one for delivery trucks, to minimizo dnlivnrv­pedestrian traffic on ca111­pus." 
ThP next phase of the Master Plan also calls for the construction of a student activities center and the ren­ovation of Madeleva Hall. Designs are being construct­ed as space is allocated and organized, but plans will not be finalized until funding is established, Dennis said.. 
As part of usual events in this late-year Trustees meet­ing, the Trustees also approved next year's opnat­ing and capital budgets. Saint Mary·s will use the capital funds to purchase equipment to renovate Regina Hall and repair the exterior ol' Haggar Student Center. 
They will also buy a spec­trometer for the chemistry department and 11ew chairs l"or ()'Laughlin Auditorium. Trustens voted to continue purchasing new computers for the studimt labs and recy­cling the older ones to the 
facu I ty  an cl admini strution  
offices.  
Also,  Linda  Timm,  vice  

president of Student Affairs, presented a report on Student Life at Saint \fary's. Molly Kahn, the new Student Trustee, was introduced, and Trustees approved the list of graduates. 
Members also held Executive Board elections, re­el octi ng current chairman William J. Schmuhl, Jr,, and vice chair Sister Joan Marie Steadman, a 1967 alumna. 
Barb Hamel, a 1979 gradu­ate, was elected treasurer. Hamel is a senior vice presi­dent of the Bank of America in Chicago. 
SMC women support gospel feminism 
. Theologians sign Madeleva Manifesto 
By KATIE McVOY News Writer 
Sixteen prominent women theologians made a statement of hope and courage to women in thn Catholic Church when they signed the Madeleva Manifesto Saturday at O'Laughlin Auditorium 
A charter of women and faith, the document was signed by 15 previous speak­ers and rn~xt year's spi,akPr in the Madelcva Lecture series, talks on women and faith given in honor of Saint Mary's founder. 
Following the presentalion, the women held a forum, explaining what thA Manifesto means. It is a liberal call for change based on the solemn 
traditions  of the  Catholic  
Church.  
The  manifesto  calls  on  

women in thrwlogical study to "Reimagine what it is to be the body of Christ. How things are now is not the way of God." It asks young women in the Church to follow gospel feminism, to overcome oppression based on gender, sexual orientation, race and social class. It calls for women tempted by despair to "reimagine what it means to be a full human being made in the image of God and to live and speak this truth in our daily lives." 
"This is tradition at its best," said Joan Chittister, who led the panel discussion. 
The Manifesto reminds women who suffer the cost of discipleship that they are not alone. It calls young women of the Church to carry forward 

[Fr============================================================================5lgospeI feminism to institu to 
far-reaching changes in the Church and society. 

• 

The Manifesto states that individuals are morally bound to change things th~t treat men or women as less than 
fully human. It is a pledge to biblical justice and to continue

en1or 
"dialogue on issues of freedom for women." The women who wrote the Manifesto "Invite 

last Class Dinner 
· pizza, subs, and wings · · Trivia & prizes· 
When: Wed, May 3, 2000 5-7pm Where: Alumni-Senior Club Cost: $2 
•

• Bring your ID 
others to join [them) in imag­ining the Great Shalom or God." 
"This statement is not ours," Chittister said. "The statement is meant for you." 
The women who wrote the Madeleva Manifesto arc strong believers in the Catholic Church looking for a necessary change. 
"We're entering into a dark time and we need to bank the fire," said Elizabeth Johnson, the 1993 guest lecturer. "This statement is going to keep that fire." 
The 16 women r.all for jus­tice and for "freedom, joy, contemplative intimacy and dignity," acr.ording to l\1onika Hellwig, the first Madeleva lecturer. 
The women also look for change. They adopt the term feminism, but they want to change it to gospel feminism. Secular feminism, they said, has certain dead ends that gospel feminism docs not. 
"One of the meanings of mentoring is to create a space where obedience to the truth can be practiced,'' lecturer Elizabeth Dryer said. 
"Gospel feminism is a way that doesn't deny our differ­ences, but allows us to embrace the good news from aany position in society," Jeanette Rodriguez, the 1996 lecturer, added. 
The women are hopeful that they will bring about change. 
"We are the witness of the commitment of women," Johnson said. "God is on our side, and God doesn't lose." 
In addition to the presenta­tion of the Madeleva Manifesto, Sandra Schneiders delivered a lecture on femi­nism in the future, "With Oil in Their Lamps: Faith. Feminism and the Future." 
Schneiders· talk focused on 
issues women will face in the 
future of the Church and what 
direction they should take to 
face those issues . 

Schneiders is a professor of New Testament studies at the Jesuit School of Theology in Berkeley and has written sev­eral books, including "Women and the Word." 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, May 1, 2000 
Report 
continued from page 1 
.. It is. or course. a matter of attitudos as murh as it is one ol' structu rt>s. so it will rn~cd the commita111 nt of the students. ranilty ;ind administration cquall~1 lo be suecessful. but we scP-it as being beneficial to all parties involved," Osborn said. 
/\!though some r,ommitte<'S currently have student mcm­bnrs. no rnlcs exist regarding how thesP st11dPnts are elPctPrl or if students must be included on these committees. 
''!Thn r<!portJ increases stu­clnnt membership on college councils and provides for their dimct <1lection. It also incr0ases student mem!Jership on the t\cadomic Council aud universi­ty com rnittees and providl's for a centrally coordinated appli­cation and appointment process," Osborn said. 
All tl1t> information for the proposal was gathered through interviews with the deans uf all thr colleges and many srnior administrators. Osborn· said he believes this research proves thr issue is feasiblf~ and thus 
hopes  the  Trustees  will  
respond  favorably  to  the  
report.  

'Tm hoping that they'll be rereptive to the whole thing," lw said. "I don't want to go into the meeting assuming that some points are hopeless. My attitude is that our 1·eport is very reasonable and the changes \Ve propose have the best interests of the University at heart." · 
Furthermore, Osborn said he hopes he and Donahey will suc­cessf'ully present their proposal and argue their position per­suasively, because thr, Trustees may find some of the issues disputable. 
"We have the support of many senior faculty and administrators on many of our points," Osborn said. "But the. 
The last issue of The Observer will be 
May 3. Good 
luck on exams. 

report will he controv11rsial. simply because it challongcs lhe status quo. The issue of student rnprnscntalion on tlrn Board of Trustees will also be contentious." 
,r tlHi board approV!lS tlrn report. Osborn and Donahey will conctrntrate on implenrnn­tation during tho sumnwr and throughout 111~xt year. 
"The next stnp if tho plan is approved is making tlw institu­tional changes that will be nec­essary," Osborn said. "It won't be possible to get everything acromplished IH'f'orP tlin nnd of the year, but we hope to get work do11e over the su111mer and br rracly to hit the ground running next f'all. I'm project­ing that Urn earliest it would all b!' in µlac<' would ho next spring. We're targeting the next student election cycle as thn goal." 
Overall, Osborn stressed that studm1ts tlrnmselves must initi­ate efforts to increase their involvement in derision-mak­ing. Also, student support for that increasP is PSsential. 
"An important point is that '-'Ve, as students, must demon­slratr, thal W(\ arc interested in grPatPr involvement and will take our new responsibilities and inflllence seriously," he said. "I have faith that W<' will bo able to rise to the occasion, but there is significant conccm in the administration that stu­dents are uninterested in bning and unable to be worthwhile participants in the governance process." 
to Ireland* 

Register at lrelandByNET.com to win an Irish Holiday for Two! Visit lrelandByNET.com today to enter for a exciting trip for two to Dublin, including airfare and hotel accommodations for 4 nights at one of Dublin's finest hotels. There's a new trip to win every month!* 
Hurry and enter -the first trip will be given away in June 2000! 
lrelandByNET.com is all things Irish with news, sports, weather, history.culture, live chat, discussions & forums and tourist information. Visit us today! 
WRC 
continued from page I 
a  good  idea  to  nw  
because  \\'c're both  
working  towards  the  

samo goal." 
Notre Dame liopns to have a onii-on-onc mert­ing with WHC rnprnson­tativns. lloy1\ said. 
"We carno in wanting morn information. The meeting didn't give us much in the way of answers; it was coml'ort­ing to snP that we're not alone in our concnrns," lloyn said. 
Saint Mary's has said that part of tlw excit0.­menl ol' joining the WHC in its early stages is being involved in the development of the gov­erning board and its poli­ciP s. Notrf' Damp has said that it 1uwds to wait unUI lhc WHC is more solidified 
"vVe're in a dilfornnt situation than Saint 
Mary's," lloye said. "We have put so much in placn at Notre Dame on our own. We'r() so far down the road in uur own system that it makes more sense to get infor­mation now. We neml to see if what thev arc doing is compaliblii with what we're already doing." 

Tests show turkey did not cause sickness 
Observer Staff R~port 
Tests of ninn Cood samples and seven stool samples l'rom stud1mts who bccanw ill after eating turk,~y at North Dining Hall on Thursday. April B. shownd turkey was not tlrn cause of' the sickness, direct.or of Food Servicns Dave Prnntkowski said Fl'iday. 
"Thern was absolutnly wro correlation bdween Lim turkey in the dining halls and the ill­nPsses the stmhints had," ho said. "It did not comn from th<) turkey at l\orth Dining llall. The tnsts veriffod that." 
Prentkowski explainod that officials who interviewed sick students at IleaIth Servic1\S in i­tially found a common link in the turkey. Food services con­

sid1,rcd food poisoning as the worst case scnnario and removed Lim turkny as a pre­caution. 
But as the Wflok ('()lltinued. students who had not eatnn at North Dining Ilall or who had natnn thnre long after tlrn turkPy was rumoved !)pc•.arnP 
ill. and UnivPrsity officials bogan lo doubt lhat food poi­soning was tho causn. 
"Tlw speculation is that it is just a flu virus," said l'rentkowski, who noted that the causn or the illness is still uncortain. A contagious bacte­
rial infection may also have 
b1\011 involvod. 

Ol'f'icials aro pleased with how thn situation was handlod. al'cording to Prentkowski. who notnd that safoty is Food Services· top priority. 

HAVE A SAFE AND HAPPY SUMMER. 



. . .

orld 
•I 


Monday, May 1, 2000 COMPILED FROM TIIE OBSERVER WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
---_-_-_-_-----.-.~-_=================----=-=-=-=-=-=::================================================================================== 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Azerbaijani Popular Front protests parlimentary fraud 
BAKu, Azerbaijan 

I\ IPading opposition group said Sunday that 200 pnopk w,\re arrnstml and 60 wounded in a proLest Lhat saw police with batons violently disp!'rS<' about 1.000 dPmonstrators The Azcrbaijani Popular Front said in a statement llrnt I:i of its mnmbers. including several leacll'rs. wnrn arrnstPd during the protost on Satunlay. Opposition leaders held the rally in downtown Baku to demand that this fall's parlianwntary elnctions be fret' of" fraud or govcrnmn11t intimidation. /\ut.lrnrities rnfuscd to sannion il, saying they could hold a d,·mnnstration on the city's outskirts instead. But d1\1111rnstrators ignored th!" order. and hundrPcls brokn through polic(i lines around tlw C('lllrnl Fizuli Square. Police said 4() pco­plP Wf'rn dtilai1wd and :w polkemnn wonnrled in tlw rlaslws. 
Portuguese rival gangs clash 
I.ISBON. Portugal 

llundrcds of young rival gang members armed with maclwtcs. sticks and stones skir­111 islwd Parlv Sunclav in the East Tirnorese capital. Dili.· :\t least four people were hurt and unrnnfirmed reports said one person was killt>d. ac·cording lo tlw Portuguese nPws agPJJ(")' Lusa. U.N. police and troops were dt•ployni to quell tlw violent street clashes, Lusa said. ThP skirmishes lasted several hours until nightfall. Lisbon radio TSF said. Brawls first broke out at a soccer stadium wlwrP a martial arts demonstration was tak­ing place, Lusa said. Portuguese police and Brazilian soldiers reportedly moved in after thn claslws spread to surrounding streets. The United Nations took over the. administra­tion of East Timor last year to end a cam­paign of violence by pro-Indonesia militias following a vote for independence. 
Citadel demotes top-ranked female cadet 
CHARLESTON 

The CitadPl's top-ranking fomale cadet, one of the first women to attend the school, has bmm demoted over hnr reaction to being tar­geted by a mess hall prank. Petra Lovetinska went l'rom cadet major and battalion execu­tive otlicer to senior private and received 20 denrnrits. Lovelinska was targeted by the prank called "wiping out the shoes," said Citadel spokeswoman Heather Anderson. The prank is part of' the 154-year-old military school's tradition An upperclassman tells a freshman cadet, callPd a knob, to crawl under the tabln and pour condiments such as kPlchup or salad dressing on an upperclass­man's shoes without getting caught What got Lovetinska in trouble is the way she reacted. She grabbed the knob, a male cadet, and wiped her shoes on his trousers. 
•,ihildlMfMMM·•
Dow AMEx: 
922,45 ]ONES -,.20.36 
Nasdaq:

-154.19 
3860.66 

JJ 
•8(J,6J 
NYSE: 
644.16 -6.29 S&P 500: Composite 
Volume:
1452.43

10733.90 1,1 I0,400,000
-12.49 
VOLUME LEADERS 

Si;ONP!E: :[IC!SI! % CM!m& i C!!Y9! PR.IS;I 
IHCII.OSOl'T COII.P  MSPT  -0 .09  -0.0625  n.1s  
CJSCO SYS:'l'&HS AT.T 'lfIJI.EI,'!8S 0  csco....  . 0.48 •0.4.D  ... o. 3)00 . O.U75  69.33 31.IJf  
MCI WOPI.LI>COH lN  l<COH  +O·, 1,f,  +O.D650  '5.44  
MASDAQ 100 SHAil  QQ  . 3.8'  +3. 5000  94 .75  
CONS't'CO INC'  CNC  -19.,:l.  -1.3ff00  S.5J  
INTEL CORP  ItlTC  tl...!Cl  +l.'975  l.26. 81  
SXODOI COIDI '""  EXDI  +1'.61  +U.502.S  89.U  
DELL COKPUTU OlUC~ COJUl  DELL ORCL  -3.1!'5 +J .40  -1.6300 .. :a.6;ns  50.12 79.3',  

ISRAEL 


Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israeli soldiers and para­mi Iitary police forcibly removed dozens of Jewish settlers from a shipping container they had illegally set up in an attempt to expand their presence in the West Bank town of Hebron on Sunday. 
Meanwhile. Palestinian officials angrily protested Israeli plans to expand what is already the West Bank's largest Jewish set­tlement. 
In Hebron, some settlers barricaded themselves inside the rust-colored structure festooned with Israeli flags, while others handcuffed themselves to its roof. Among those dragged off by the authori­ties were mothers holding infants. 
About 500 Jewish set­tlers live in Israeli-con­trolled enclaves in Hebron in tense proximity to the town's 130,000 Palestinians. 
The settlers said setting up the container on land near the Jewish enclave of Tel Romeida -which they claim was stolen from the Jewish community -was also a protest against Israeli concessions to the Palestinians. Their action came hours before peace treaty talks were to resume between the two sides in the southern Israeli resort town of Eilat. 
The two sides have set Sept. 13 as a deadline for an overall accord, which would mean settling their differences over Jewish settlements in addition to other thorny issues such as the status of Jerusalem and the concept of a Palestinian state. 
"We will struggle for the preservation of Jewish land," said Noam Amon, spokesman for the Hebron 's Jewish communi­ty. "Because of the negoti­ations. we don't know what our fate will be ­there is word of evacuation and dismantling of some settlements. We will fight against it." 

The Hebron incident came as the housing min­istry said Sunday that Israel has opened competi­tion on bids for the build­ing of 174 new housing units in Maale Adumim. the West Bank's largest Jewish settlement. 
The move came despite a partial construction freeze on settlements that Prime Minister Ehud Barak put into effect. which was meant to fulfill an election pledge to shift national resources away from set­tlement construction. 
McCain agrees to support Bush campaign 
including Social Security, education ning as vice president. Appearing on 
Associated Press 
and health carP. three Sunday talk shows, McCain 
WASHINGTON Asked on CBS's "Face the Nation" said he has asked to be left off the 
Sen. John McCain said Sunday he whether he can "enthusiastically list of possible vice presidential can­will endorse George W. Bush even if endorse" the Texas governor absent didates being drawn up by former they don't agree on campaign an agreement on campaign finance Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, who finance reform, as he expects, when reform, McCain said he could. is spearheading Ilush's search for a they meet next week. "If I didn't, I would be litmus test­running mate. 
Overhauling federal campaign ing him, and I don't think that's McCain also appearnd on finance laws was the signature issue appropriate for me to do," McCain CNN's"Late Edition,"which originat­of McCain's now suspended cam­said. "But I believe he has begun to ed from a library at the vice presi­paign for the Republican presidential and is continuing to pursue a reform dent's official residPnce because of a nomination. Bush opposes some pro­agenda." live interview with Al Gore. posed reforms. The May 9 meeting in Pittsburgh Gore asked to speak with McCain 
But McCain said that discord would between the two former rivals was after the senator's taping and they not preclude an endorsement of nearly scrapped last week in a dis­discussed campaign finance reform Bush. the all-but-declared GOP presi­pute over the agenda. McCain also and foreign affairs at the Naval dential nominee, since the two agree was miffed that Bush planned to ask Observatory, said McCain spokesman on other areas in need of change. him whether he would consider run-Todd Harris. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, May 1, 2000 
ence," she said. "So much of­with Bosnia, but as an ethnic munities need help getting asy­"Must of our students are law school is book learning, Hungarian, he frequently faced lum, or refugee status, from upper-midd!P.-class kids, and
Legal 
and this is a chance to utilize threats and discrimination from their home.countries. Rwandan many of them had no idea that 

it." his officers. He was forced to and Serbian refugees who fled people were living in the condi­
continued from page l 
Lodge has worked at the clin­wear a different uniform, the lighting in those countries tions that our clients were living ic since January, aiding clients O'Brien says, so that his fellow in the mirl-'90s are common. as in," Fox said. "They just had no in their attempts to navigate soldiers would know to shoot arc Mexicans and Central idea that this world was outfraud and Social Security cases, the complex U.S. immigration him if he tried to desert. His Americans who have come there. In exposing our students
want to enter public service 
system. At any given time. she farm was burned and his north to find jobs. to this, it helps them under­
law. Others sec it as a good 
is helping between 10 and 15 daughter was assaulted three The remaining 60 percent of stand things better. Hopefully,opportunity to gain experience people with such essentials as times by Serb men before the cases deal with civil disputes exposure to our clients and the
working with clients face-to­
greP.n card renewals and resi­two tfod to the United States. ranging from domestic violence kind of' work they do will helpface. 
dency applications. Right now, Had the pair nut received asy­to consumer fraud. Most of them become better lawyers,
When a dient comes to the 
one of those is Adela. lum, they would have been sent these arc tried at St. Joseph and better people."
Clinic. it is usuallv the students The two sit at the tabh~. the back to Serbia. County Court in South Bend. In a few weeks, Lodge willhe sees first. lnterns take down intern translating rnsirlency O'Rrien savs that often tlrn According to Szweda, thP Clinic graduate from Notre Dame andthe case information, and often. 
forms for the client. Adnla has most powerful parl of his work only has the resources to tak1! bead to Phoenix, Ariz .. to pm­as Lodge does with Adela, help brought with her a plastic shop­is interviewing tho clients to on approximati. ly onH-f'il'th of pare for the bar examinationthem through the legal process. 
ping bag full of important docu­compile their stories for tlrn the clients who contact it. and to start practicing law.
Many times, students' language ments. Two thick envelopes asylum hearing. "Boc;ausc there are not a lot of Adela will still be in Bristol,
skills facilitate this guidance. 
from the Chicago law firm that "Yuu have to help the client legal services for the poor, awaiting a rnsponsP to her
Nearly all of Monterrosa's 
aided in hPr asylum application tell their story bel'on\ a judge," we're in demand." slw said. The app!kation and hoping to sne
clients, for example. are 
hold all sorts of documentation, he said. "You have a glimps11 of Clinic does not havo a lot of' her children again some day. In
Spanish speakers. and his nu­
much of it indecipherable lo the what it musl he like. You gnl a lawyers, and those who do work the fall, a new class of studentsency helps him to handle thPir Spanish speaker. 13ut right now, glimpse all of a suddnn nf how there genBrally spocializP in will work at tlrn Immigrationcases. 
it is not enough. Lodge tells rf'al it is." certain fields. These are two Clinic and, evPry day, new
After the initial intakn and 
Adela she must cume back next Deuling with real clients, and major reasons the Clinic turns waves of clients will conrn to till'
meeting with dients. studPnts 
week with pay stubs, her Social helping them in rnal situations, away customers, but fwcn so, white house on !Inward Strnet.
discuss their cases with one of Security number and the names has a hallmark of' tlw Clinic the office usually has more than Whf'n Ad1\la"s intPrvicw withthe Clinic staffers -thrne l'ull and addresses of all her since its 1966 beginning as a :{00 cases active at any one Lodge i~ over and tlw two have
timP and sPveral part-timP 
cmployers for the last five studnnt group found11d lo work time. set up an appointnwnt to mnet
lawyers. These professionals 
years. All of this documentation for prisoners' rights at thn stat11 There is ono other f'rcn lt•gal n11xt. wenk, tlw oldf!r woman
are licensed to practice in 
is needed for the residency penitentiary in Michigan City, aid clinic in South Bend, but it gathers her papers and stands
Indiana and superviso the 
application. And tlrnt's not all. lnd. In the Clinic's early yuars, handles much of' northern up from Urn tablo. Slw smilns al
process throughout. But any 
Ilave you ever bPen a prosti­students also helped dcl'nnd Indiana, and NotrP Damp's is Lodge and thanks IH'r, and tlw
certified student -one who tute? Lodge must ask the 50-indigent clients in Michigan, the only one that provides two embrace.
has complr.ted one-half of law year-old grandrnothnr with but 110w it handh~s only civil immigration snrvic,~s. "Obviously, IAdPla has] had asrhool -can appear beforn a curly blaf'k hair anrt a bltw cases. It has grown substantial­Clinic directors say the clicn­hard lifo," Lodgn said lat11r.
judge in a courtroom, so the 
Mickey Mouse polo shirt. IlaVf' Iv sincf' 1990, when c111-rPnt co­telc teaches the l'uturn lawyers "She works hard to make a liv­interns gain trial experience as you ever been a Communist, or direr,tors Barbara Szweda and something about li1'11 on the ing. She's got a family slw camswell. Thus the program givPs 1rngaged in polygamy'? ThesP. Eileen Doran were hirnd, and lower rungs of tlrn nconomic about. Sim's no diffnrent than
law students the chance to 
are questions on tho applica­the Clinic took on a tnaching ladtlnr, as well. anyone elsn."
praclice law, both in tlrn uflicn tion, aml Lodge has to ask them co111po11cnl. The pair sel up Lim
and in the courtroom, while of her client. "It's kind of omce like a normal law prac­
providing free legal services to embarrassing," the intern says. tice, and the University movedindigent Michiana residents. 
Happy Birthday "Non-Athlete" 
Fortunately for her application, it to the current location, a
In part because of the high 
Adela answers no to all of these white, two-story house at 725
cost of Law School tuition ­
questions. Howard Street. "one block from 
l ···· ·e Onyeagbiko

$22,630 this year -few Notrn 
Today, with all or Adela's Notre Dame Avenue and a . .. r·1=
Dame Law graduates actually 
paperwork complete and the short bike ride l'rom the Goldenenter public service law. which 
necessary medical exams Dome.
rarely pays as well as private 
passed. Lodge will mail the In 1995, the Immigration
practice. But, Clinic directors 
application. [t will probably be Clinic was founded after a Srisay. students' experience in the at least two years before Adela Lankan came to tlw Clinic for
Legal Aid program can make 
receives a reply. The U.S. gov­help obtaining residency. A
them better lawyers in the 
ernment grants approximately local priest soon starlnd direct­
future. · 
50,000 permanent residencies ing Central Americans there for
"Even if our students don't go 
each year to asylum cases, but, assistance, Szweda said, andon to do public interest work. 
given the high volume of appli­the immigration spncialty took
being here at least sensitizes 
cants, it can take several years off. Now it accounts !'or 40 pnr­
them to the needs of the other to process the paperwork. r,ent or the office's caseload.
half, basicallv," said Judith Fox, 
Cutting through tlrn volumi­There are several large immi­
who teaches"in the Clinic. "And 
nous red tape of immigration grant communities in South
they'll consider those things 
law and helping people !'ind Bend, ar,cording to Szweda, and
when they're taking action in 
their way to a better lit'n in some membr.rs of tlrnso c:om­
whatever kind of firm they go 
America motivates somp of' thc
into and they'll be willing to 
immigration interns. Scan
take some free cases. some pro 
O'Brien is a second-year law
bono r,ases." 
student who has handled morPLodge is one of those stu­
than 100 Clinic cases, includingdents. She will go to work for a those of refugees from war-torn
firm in Phoenix, Ariz.. next 
nations on tllf' other side or theyear. and specialize in employ­world.
ment and labor law. But, she 
Recently. O'Brien helped ansays, she hopes her experitmce ethnic Hungarian f'rom Serbiaat llw Immigration Clinic will and his daughter win asylum inhelp her do pro bono work in the U.S. The man was con­that city, which has a large 
scripted to fight !'or the Serb
population of migrant workers. 
army during that country's war"I wanted a hands-on experi-
SUMMER WORK 
Vector Marketing Corporation is again filling summer positions throughout the U.S. 
$13.55 base-appt. 

Great resume experience Customer service and sales Scholarships available Conditions apply Call office nearest to summer location 
South Bend (219) 282-2357 Muncie (765) 289-7345 Goshen (219) 875-8843 N. Indianapolis (317) 575-9600 Fort Wayne (219) 471-6113 SW Indianapolis (317) 248-1300 Merrillville (219) 769-2352 Bloomington (812) 477-9274 Kalamazoo (616) 349-8146 Terre Haute (812) 298-8555 Kokomo (765) 453-1664 Evansville (812) 477-9274 Lafayette (765) 420-0507 Jeffersonville (812) 284-5310 
www.workforstudents.com/BT 
QueNch vour thiRst for Knowleoge onLine at Versitv.com LecTure notEs . Novel notEs . exAm preParaTion amonG otHer mourh wAteAing acadeMic rreats -always (1-140.355) open-


Where to go when you need to know.~ 
--------~ --­

Monday, May l, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
ND law teams win national contest 
Congratulate a friend. 
wrr~Thl ~l]lIT .mID®IITTflIIiJflmu:ce ttiluca Tux~&0ll:o 
Reserve your ads for The Observer's senior edition. 631-6900 
Gibson and Associates, Inc. Management Consultants 

proudly welcomes the following consultants who will be joining us from Notre Dame and St Mary's 
Emily Affeldt '00 
Katie Cousino '00 Jim Dillhoff'00 Scott Eckman '01 .. 
Abigail Fleming '00 Francis O'Connor '00 Daniela Papi '00 

We look forward to visiting both campuses again next fall! Check us out at http://www.gibsonconsulting.com 
• Students take first, second place in trial competition 
By KELLY HAGER 
News Wrirer 
AftPr threP days of competi­tion. The Notre Oame Law School trial teams were crowned national champions and second place linalists at the 25th Annual National Trial Competition {NTC) March 30 through April 1. 
Sponsored by the American College of Trial Lawyers and The Texas Yong Lawyer's Association, the competition was held in Dallas, Texas. from the 280 teams that originally entered the competition at the regional level. only 24 emerged to compete at nationals. To be eligible to compete at the nation­al level. teams first must win first or second place at regional level competitions. Finishing first and second place at regionals. both the Blue. Team and the Gold Team advanced. Notre Dame has not progressed to the nation­al level since 1993. 
For competition at nationals, 
got news? 1-5323. 
Have a great 
day! 

Notre Dame's new London Summer Program!!!! 
Starting the summer 2001 
Four and a half weeks for six hours of academic credit (May 17 to June 17) 
Information Meeting: 
7:00 PM Tuesday, May 2 
Location: Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge (next to the auditorium) 
or call 1-5203 (International Studies Office) for an application and program information 
the Barrister's were given a ficti­tious case -Old Trustworthy Insurance Company v. Gordon Tower -and four weeks to pre­pare. During the four weeks. the teams practiced an average of 10 to 15 hours a week. 
Progressing through quarterfi­nals and semifinals leading to their final victory, the champi­onship team faced and defeated Georgetown, Hofstra, Howard, StPtson and two-year reigning national champion Temple. The second place national finalists faced and defeated Western New England, Maine, Houston. Syracuse and University uf Washington on their way to the final round. 
As top seeds in each of their competition brackets, Notre Dame's Blue and Gold teams found themselves in an awkward position -they had to compete against each other. Although they had practiced together, this was the first time the two teams faced each other in competition. 
"We joked about it at regionals but never thought it would hap­pen," said Tamara Walker. Blue Team captain and president of the Black Law Association. "We were not prepared for it to hap­pen." 

Only one other school in the history of the NTC has had teams that won both first and second placed in the competi­tion. 
"It was unreal -all our prac­tice and hard work had paid ofT," Walker said. "No mattnr the outcome we couldn't have suc­ceeded without the support of the rest of the team." 
Next October, the national champion Notre Dame team will attend the annual meeting of the American College of Trial Lawyers in Washington, D.C. In addition to awards they have already received. team members will receive the Kraft W. Eidman Award consisting of a $5,000 gift and a silver bowl. Grissom will also be awarded the prestigious Spiegelberg Award, given to the Best Advocate in the final round of competition. 
The Blue Team was comprised of Shazzie Naseem, president of the Student Bar Association. Walker. Ryan Redmon, and Kelly Murphy, were named national champions. Their teammates, the Gold Team, included Stone Grissom, Scott Kellogg, Steven Practico and Matt Woleski. 
GOP hearings on Elian may be no-go 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Congressional hearings on the government's seizure of Elian Gonzalez may never happen, despite Republican demands for an inquiry into the Justice Department's use of force, a key lawmaker :mys. 
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, R­Utah, said he will need to see the government's documents before deciding whether such proceedings are warranted. 
"Once we get those, I think we can make an intelligent appraisal as to whether hear­in gs should be held or not. Whether we should go forth, whether we shouldn't," Hatch said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Asked if hearings might not be held at all. he replied: "If they're not justified, I guess there won't be." 
Democrats said I-latch's reasoning for postponing the proceedings gives Republicans a graceful way to bow to public opinion. which polls show has over­whelmingly swung against a congressional inquiry. 
"I doubt there will be hear­ings, and there shouldn't be hearings," Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont. the top Democrat on I-latch's committee, said on NBC. 
The possibility of nu hear­ings is a stark departure from tile demands of GOP congres­sional leaders last week. who accused Attorney General Janet Heno of prPmaturely ending negotiations with the 6-year-old Elian·s relatives in Miami and ordering an exces­sively forceful raid on their home. 
Fi>deral ag11nts sPized Elian on April 22 and reunited him wiLh his fathPr, .Juan Miguel Gonzalez. The pair, along with Elian 's stepmother and infant half brother arc stav­ing a secluded retreat on Maryland's Eastern Shore. 

In a letter Thursday to Reno, Hatch gave the Justice Department 24 hours to turn over all documents "related to (1) surveillance of the Miami home, including but not limited to the possibility of weapons in that home; (2) seeking and obtaining the search warrant and the arrest warrant; (3) the deci­sion to enter the home and the means of entry. and (4) the conduct of the operation of entering the home, seizing the boy, and taking him to Ylaryland, including but not limited to any tactical plan or rules of engagement." 
The Justice Department announced it was unable to comply with the request in 24 hours, and with the blessing of Republican leaders. Hatch postponed the hearings. 
While those proceedings might never take place. Hatch and others said ques­tions still need to be answered about the legality of the agents' search war­rant, among other things. 
"The ends don't justify the means here," Hatch said. If he sclrndules any hearings, Hatch said he would ask Heno to testify. but probably not Elian's Miami family. 
Some Drmocrats said they would support forward-look­ing hearings nn how to improve the immigration sys­tem. 
"I think we ought to take a look in a very dispassionate way at all of the cases ... and see if there isn't a bntter way of handing thesci matters," said Sen. Dianne FPinstein or California. She add<'d that she believes Reno followed the law. · 
Republicans k11pt up their attacks on Beno, saying pho­tos showing gun-toting agents grabbing a sobbing Elian raises questions about whether the Constitution still protects Anwricans against tlrn government's excessiv<' use of rurce. 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, May 1, 2000 
Clinton pushes plan to protect consumers' privacy 
Associated Press 
YPSIL\NTI, Mich. 

American consumers run too many risks as they unwittingly divulge growing amounts of personal and financial informa­t i o n , President Clinton said Sunday as he proposed reforms in the way banks. insurers and other corpora­tions share information about their cus­tomers. 
"No one should have to worry that the results of their latest physical exam could deny them a home mortgage or a credit card." Clinton said during a commencement address· at Eastern Michigan University. 
"A bank is not just a bank,n in today's fast-chang.iug financial services ind ustrv, Clinton said. There are downsides to the interconnected web of corpora­tions and services that make many daily tasks easier for many consumers, Clinton said. 
"In this information age we can't let new opportunities erode old. fundamental rights," Clinton said. "We can't let breakthroughs in technology break down the walls of priva­cy." 
·Clinton's plan would, in many cases, require a company to tell customers it was going to share sensitive consumer information such as medical and insurance records. or lists of what people buy and where they buy it. 
Clinton '>vould also give con­sumers the option not to have that information shared, and give consumers a new right to review their credit reports for 

Wtt,.,t-, ~~e-\;, ~tth-, 
~ l~tan-,et ~p~ 
Zoomculture.com 
b hir,Y\A f ,eld re~~te l' •~ture ~tudaWlt 1ifa <ilWI vi.!a<a,, ,eWI l''lmpu~ er 41'\Y..,he.-e t:fa t<'lli.e;)"eu. 
apply at: 
www.zoomculture.com/internship 
errors. 

The plan, which stands little chance of passage in Congress this election year, includes pro­tections Clinton supported in the past and which he said were lacking in banking reforms passed last year after more than a decade of wrangling. 
The banking law, which Clinton signed in November, makes it easier for financial firms to merge and use economies of scale to lower costs on products such as checking accounts, insurance policies and brokerage services. 
But critics, including much of the financial services industry and some congressional Republicans, say Clinton's new proposal undflrmines last year's legislation. 
Opp_onents said adding addi­tional consumer controls would prevent securities, banking and insurance firms from creating less expensive financial services for customers. 
The White House labeled the new proposals a Clinton-Gore plan, and the vice president hopes to make a campaign issue of further consumer protection in the fast-changing world of financial information. GOP pres­idential nominee George W. Bush has not taken a position on the Clinton plan. 
Public opinion polls chart a growing concern among Americans that they must divulge too much information to too many anonymous institu­tions. At the same time, Americans are eagerly using the new kinds of services that many of those institutions offer, such as buying and banking online. 
Clinton spoke to more than 1,300 graduates at Eastern Michigan, a public university just outside Detroit. Clinton plans two more commence­ments addresses this spring, his last as president. 
Later Sunday, Clinton was the headliner at a fund-raising din­ner for the Detroit-area National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. The event, which organizers said drew about 9,000 people, also honored Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich .. for his civil rights work and legislative career. 

In his speech, Clinton ticked off a list of accomplishments during his administration, such as lower crime rates and the booming economy, and called on Congress to pass gun control legislation and vote on his lan­guishing judicial appointments. 
The president was particular­ly pointed in criticizing the Senate for delaying the judicial votes, including some who have waited for three years. 
This is not an oxymoron. Wildflower has it all! Log & stone homes. Cathedral ceilings, stone fireplaces, decks overlooking the St. Joe River and Orchard Hills Golf Course. Starting under $200,000. 1 1/2 hours from the loop. A great location just 20 minutes from N.O. campus. 
616.695.6043 
Northern Lights, Inc. Broker. 
Contact: 

WILDFLOWER DEVELOPMENT 3035 NILES-BUCHANAN ROAD BUCHANAN. Ml 49107 

We wish to congratulate and welcome this years summer interns and full-time hires from the University of Notre Dame to 
PricewaterhouseCoopcrs. 
We look forward to having you on our team. Together, we'll change the world. PricewaterhouseCoopers is proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer www.pwcglobal.com/ocp 
/JRICEWAtRHOU5E(aJPERS I 
Join us. Together we can change the world.5M 

CJ,W(XJ ftiU'Witi1.•IhoUSt.Crn1pt•fS LLP. Priu:w,itt·rlivu>t . .'Coop.•rJ rc:fc:fS fu rfo: U.S. fim1 ofPrit:L'W,1tt•rhmm:C11op<:" LiP ,md otht•r mL•mlx.:r, ti! tfll' worfdwick.• Pril·Lwafl.•rhou.~,.:Coopers orx,miz.1ti11n 
Monday, May I, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Gay activists 01eet on Capitol Hill 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

llundn-ids of thousands ol' gays and supporters marched Sunday on the Capitol, trans­forming UH~ National Mall into a sea of multicolored flags and joining hands in a show or unity they hope will transform rncnnt victories into wider pro­wctions f'or homosexuals. 
"\Vp'i-e on!.{ asking for thP samP rights ,is anyone else," ;\dam May of Atlanta dedared as he ,,alknd ·with tho throngs of marclwrs.''"Dnpriving 0110 person ... puts cvnryone al risk of losing." 
In a crowd dottl'd wilh open­ly gay celebrities. the marchers celclJrawd a week of victories that irtrluclr.d fHl.ssagP of a new law in Vormont giving gays marriage-like rights and a r·encwed plPa by Presidnni Clinton's for a federal !late Crim('S Prnvention Acl. 
But participants vowed not tu tion in history" that has rest until same-sex couples get appointed more than 150 equal rights in all 50 states, openly gay people to important and some wore costumes or government posts. carried signs calling attention /\lso in the crowd was the to lights still on the horizon. father of Matthew Shepard, the 
One man 21-year-old wearing a Boy gay University 
Scout uniform "We're only asking for of Wyoming and held up a the same rights as student who 
"Straight 

anyone else." 
Scouts for gay scouts," calling I attention to a Adam May case heard by 
Atlanta activist 
the Supreme Court lac;t wePk in which a Srout leader was fired because he was gay. Others carried signs saying "Stop IlalP Crimns" and chant­ed "full rights for gays." 
Clinton spukr. via videotape to what was the firs( gay rights march on Washington since 199:~. His image shown on a giant screen, the president declarf'd he had prPsidf'd over "the most inclusive administra­
spriny menus are in bloom al Oorin's. 
Dine in the true spirit of Notre Dame, while experiencing the budding navors of the season. Springtime at Sorin's brings a renewal of our menu as we honor our commitment to bringing you tl1e finest foods available. Visit Sorin's at The Morris Inn, and embrace the season. 


~ , ~~--•· 
~MonishllL __ 
·:sorlnsnd.com, Resenations Recommended· 631-iozo 

Shepard Clinton 
d iecl in October 1998 after being beaten into a rnma and tied to a fence. 
Den11is said he met with on Fridav and was 

optimistic the hate· crimes bill would pass. 
"If my son was alive, he would be here today," Shepard said. "Gay rights is the civil rights issue of this century." 
Small Business Ad ministration head Aida Alvarn praiserl Clinton and Vice President Al Gore as "true believers" in making govern­
-------------~---_,______.,. ment represent all groups.
Law enforcement officials said there was no sign of any anti-gay rights demonstrators, and agreed with estimates the crowd numbered at least 200,000 in size. March co­chair Donna Red Wing gave a much higher estimate, saying it may have been as large as 1 million. 
March organizers spoke of trying to mobilize gay and les­bian supporters into an impor­tant voting bloc for November's presidential election, and some dismissed Republican George 
W. Bush's recent overture to the gay community. 
Gore in search of complement for VP 
. Candidate might look for GOP mate 
Associa red Press 
ABOARO AIR FOHCE TWO 
In his most extensive public comments yet on his top­secret search for a running mate, Vice President Al Gore s a i tl Sunday he is looking for some­one unlike himself and hasn't ruled ouL tapping a Repub­

Gore
lican. 
" I t ' s most unlikely, I don't want to mislead you," Gore said. "I3ut I don't completely rule it out." 
He was asked about the possibility during a discussion with reporters about biparti­sanship -the campaign theme these days of Republican rival George W. Bush -in which Gore said, "My natural instincts are to reach out and create biparti­san coalitions." 
Gore has insisted on keep­ing silent about who will be No. 2 out of deference, he's said, to the candidates who will be vetted by former sec­retary of state Warren Christopher, who is heading up Gore's search. 

But on a campaign flight from Boston to Washington, Gore, who ventured into the press cabin to trumpet his meeting with Republican Sf'n. John McCain earlier in the day, entertained an expansive musing about what he's look­ing for in a running mate. 
Ile said he is forcing him­self to get past what he called a natural "human instinct" to seek out someone like himself' ,ind he disagreed with grum­blers in political circles who say the pool of obvious Democratic candidates ­particularly minorities and women -is pretty shallow. 
"You ask the question is the person the best person to take over as president would that become necessary," Gore said. 
He discounted speculation that his choice would be affected bv who Bush selects as a running mate. The He publicans National Convention where Bush and his running mate will be nom­inated comes two weeks before the Democrats con­vene on Aug. 14. 
"The conventions are so close together that whether or not [my choice] is announced, it will be effec­tively made before then," Gore said. 
As for the process, Gore said he has spoken with Christopher on how to pro­ceed but "I have not given him a list of names." 
Congratulations to the following men and women who will receive the Sacrament ofConfirmation on Monday, May 1st at 7:30 p. m. in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart. 
1LHJE <CONJFJ[RMATUON <CANDl[DATlE§ & their sponsors 
]FRANK AGOSTINO 
Michael Agostino 
JfANE lB~LEEG 
Brigid Sweeney 
KIMBERLY KATHERINE JBouLDS 
Rebecca Palmer 
AsENCION CASTANEDA 
Claudia Quinonez 
Kaidn IEid.n Connolllly 
Erin Maxwell 
Kiri§ta.Jnt Therese Cum1mi.1nts 
Jeanine Skendzel 
Va1me§§a M[o1rnica. Diaz 
Christopher Sanger 
]BEN THOMAS DILLON 
foe Priest 
PetteJF lFira§§O 
Nathaniel Hannan 
lR.01be1nt JH[agairn 
Stacy Horan 
Suzanne Rose Hambright 
fen Connor 
K,atthl«een Kendlfidk 
Tom Resig 

Jo§eph ]K.(o,§elk. 
Shawn Storer 

MUchelle lBe1rn.-ai.1rd Lai.gueurx 
Clare Sullivan 

David Thoma§ lLatdhtan.at 
Kelly Coilim 

Meghan JB1ri.gi.d McCutheon 
Joanna Fee 

THOMAS PATRICK McDERMOTT 
Marissa Kelly 

KATIE GABRIEL M[cKENNA 
Katie Netzinger 
JI AMIE MORAN 
Meredith Curley 

GRABLE M[URAIDA 
Fr. Steve Newton, csc 

Jles§n.ca Catthe1rine N«eflf 
Jillian DePaul 

JuHe l[Ire1t1e Pendergast 
Maura Halbach 
M{ icha(el D,arviudl JP>on d.u§ 
Scott Gavin 
CLAUDIA ]flAMllREZ 
Colleen La.wler 
]KEITH Jm-IN RAUEN!UEHLER 
Scott Ellingson 
AMANDA ]PlEYES 
Magdalena Zepeda 
l\\11.ICHAEL )fOHN RILEY 
Ellen Wright 
R.. ICHARD JOHN RODARTE 
Stephen Koeth 
THOMAS JONATHAN RODRIGUEZ 
Melissa Trevino 
NOEMI AGNES R..UBIO 
Colleen Kerwin 
lLESUE ]FRANCES SAUNDERS 
Sarah Culley 
TIFFANY LINDA '\\VHITTAKER 
Mary Koenig 
M[ONICA WISNER 
Lusiena Wong 
-0Jy1PU5
tv11NISTRY 
. '.-l.C·," ,,,,, • .. 
Speq,~~l T1'c1nks, to the ~':;;hf{TYl-tio,_~team for their support ofthese m'jji and women throughout ,e.hei?jo'!urnrys to becoming confirmed. 
'f Fr. J~hn Gonleyt csc , i'i,~iggie Clemency,~wnii~m Dai.Ley, csc <:\Scott Ellingson 

Margaret Laracy 
Megan Walsh 

VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 

page 10 BSERVER Monday, May l , 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox ~. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 ~omh Oi,1ing. H.ill. Nntre DJme, IN ,16556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim Lane  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Tim Log:.in  llrian Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne :\1arie MJrtingly 

VJE'X'POINT fntTOR: Lila Haughey SroRTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith 
SCENE EDITOR: ArnanJa G1cco SAl:-.!T MARv'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Eliz.ibeth Lang 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Par l'erers 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS A.DMJNISTHATOR: Mike Gunville 
WEB AnMTNISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROU.ER: Bob Woods 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL iNFO,., ....••....631-7471 FAX.... ··•··........ ..... ...................631-6927 ADVERTISING...................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nJ.edu EDITOR IN CH!EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDnoR/AssT. ME....................631-454! BUSINESS 0FFICE........................................63 l-53 l3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.a bsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAJNT MARY'S... ·········································63!-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at http:llobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports. feamres and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-co-the 
weekly srudent reviews 

minute forecasts 
online features for spe­

advenise for policies 
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer

archives co search for 
to meet the edirors and 

articles published after 
staff

Augusr 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe Universicy of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial coment, including advertisemems, is no, governed by policies of the administration ofei1her ins1irution. The Observer reserves rhe right ,o refuse advertisements based on conrem. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objeccively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edimr and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint sp:1ce is avaibble ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners ro the Ediror must be signed and must include rontau information, 
QuestiallS reg11rdi1lf Observer policies should be dire.-i­,,J to Ldiror Ill C.hie[Mike Lo111wlly. 
No 'ultimate sap' in this goodbye 
So. This is my last regular column as an undergradu­ate student al Saint :vlary's. 
I'd always thought that I'd put a lot of time and effort, a lot of sweat and tears, into my last col­rnnn here. Aftm all, I've been doing this every two weeks for the past three years. And although I've produced some sloppy thinking and bad writing over the years, I've also written a few pieces that I'm still really proud of. Overall. writing this column has been a blast and I don't regret it for a second. Well. except for the three million seconds I'd spend before every deadline desperately trying to find a topic. 
Any topic. 

So that's why I thought that I'd reward my nine loyal readers with some­thing really phenomenal for this column. Something touchingly poignant, or bril­liantly witty or stupendously profound. Something that would make people turn and look at each other and say, "Wow." Something that people would bring up as a conversation topic. "Hey, did you read The Observer today? There's a great col­umn in here! You gotta read it." Something that would make hordes of people rush for their scissors and make a mad slash at the paper in order lo clip this out. 
Riiiiight. 

I haven't written anything brilliantly witty since my freshmen year, when I had my English/philosophy tan­dem. I haven't written any­thing stupendously profound since my sophomore year. And touchingly poignant? 
11mm. I don't think I've ever done an:,thing that was touchingly poignant. (Hey, I use "touchingly poignant" as a synonym for "ultimak 

Nakasha Ahmad 
So, ¼'hat's My Point? 
sap." It's just not my genre.) 
In fact, f haven't done any­thing all semester. Yes, all semester I do not mad f'or my classes. 1turn papers in days late. And I don't stress about it. 
At all. 
On the other hand. I have frinncls who don't turn papers in this semester at all. So mayl.Je I'm doing bet­ter than most. 
rn other words. the senioritis bug has finally bit­ten me too, and I don't ham the energy left to write the earth-shattering, news-mak­ing, Ted Koppel-calling col­umn that I wanted to. 
Oh, well. This response is a sure sign or senioritis. Please understand one thing. Seniors do not care anymore. 
About anything. 
I would however, like to take the time lo thank the people who made writing this column such a great time. The various highjinks of administrations, national and collegiate; my friends, who would laugh at some inane thing I said and told me to turn it into a column; and my parents, who would valiantly try to give me topic ideas when I whined I had nothing to write about, and then patiently put up with me when I rejected every single idea they suggested. 
I'd also like to thank my parents for all the criticism (good and bad) they gave me. If I'm a bettflr writer now than I was three years ago, it's because of them. 
Finally, I'd also like to thank the two people who had lunch with me this afternoon. When I whined about how I wanted to make 
a really good column and couldn't think of any­thing, they suggested that I write just that. 
Blame this on them. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a senior at Saint Mary's whose e-mail address is ahma34 95@sainlmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obserl'er. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Money mentality causes debt, sacrifices quality students 
Like hundreds of my fellow students probably did, I received a half-joking, half-scared e-mail from my father the day he got Father Malloy's letter in the mail regard­ing the tuition increase. The lowest percentage increase of tuition in two decades, huh? Is that supposed to make us feel comforted'? 
But the real issue isn't with the letter. It's with the University's refusal to freeze tuition (or God forbid) lower it. If it is true that we did increase our net assets by $259.3 million and have the luxury of a $30 million bud­get surplus, ':hy do so many students face the possibility of not returnmg next year? Friday's Observer article about the budget surplus indicated that in order to attract the brightest students to Notre Dame. we need to continue to increase spnnding on technology and infra­structure. But are we that asinine to assume that the best high school seniors in the country are the ones whose parents can afford Notre Dame's skyrocketing costs? 
The bottom line is this: Notre Dame refuses to halt tuition increase because they assume that less expensive equals less equality. Rice University, which is ranked higher than Notre Dame in most U.S. News and Report rankings (14th to 19th), tops us out atjust over $21,000 a year. CalTech, this year's No. 1-ranked school in the nation, is cheaper than Notre Dame as well. But because Harvard is $32,000 a year, we feel that we have to be too. This keeps us elite. 
This nrnntality not only drives hundreds of top students from Notre Dame every year, but also puts students lrnre so far in debt that they end up paying out much more for much longer than they can afford to. 
I'm not blaming the Financial Aid Office -they have the u~rnnviable task of fairly allocating what funds tlrny are given lo work with. But if private donations fund so much of our building costs, why can't we afford to divert more money to Financial Aid? Next time you visit one of" the many new immaculate buildings on campus, ask yourself what's most important to our administration. 
lley ND, thanks for paying your tuition. 

Grant Gholson Sophomore Keenan 1-lall April 2'J, 2000 
DILBERT 
A50K, THIS WILL BE THE MOST IMPORTANT ASSIGN­MENT IN YOUR ENTIRE. CAREER. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

YOU MUST A.FFIX THE A55ET TAGS IN THIS FOLDER TO OUR OFFICE EQUIPMENT. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"! have a simple philosophy. Fill what's empty. flmpty what's full. Scratch where it itches." 
Alice Roosevelt Longworth American author, daughter of Theodore Roosevelt 
• 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Monday, May l, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Fatherhood should take 

precedence over political ideology 
While I do not particularly ure for the histrionics dis­played by Eli,in's Miami family. J do oppose the rer.ent INS action against the same. From a legal standpoint, the riicnnt "sl'ard1 and seizurn" carries far rnaching implica­tions, not just for Cubans, but for all immigrants who are or will onn dav conw under the hegemony of thfl INS. 
Tlw action llccomcs particularly ominous upon one's rnalizing that 1J Eli.in was a. petitioner in good standing; 2) them wern ongoing negotiations, or at least the appcar­arwn of' thP sanrn with kl'y players in place; 3) the control­ling legal authority nevnr declared tlrn pclitioner to he unlawfully held (the fact that the court is unwilling to award custody to th11 Miami family after tho seizure of Elian is irrelevant, once the seizure is understood to have been "tolerated" as opposed to "ordered"); 4) the INS is an administrative agency with no power to set legal prece­dent; 5) tho power and rosourccs available to any govern­ment agency, including the INS. far outweigh those avail­able to the average citiznn; 6) other !peaceful) means were widely and readily available to implemr.nt the transfer of Elian; and 7 I tlw distinction drawn by Janet Reno between "thP show of' forcp" as opposed to "the use of force" is a crock and a spPcious distinction, because any "show of force" can potentially become~ a use of Urn same. 
Americans who have !'ailed to make the r:onnection between family values and politics have conveniently for­gotten about King Gcmrge. Fatherhood should take prece­dence over political ideology, as long as that ideology is not thrnatm1ing to thn same. Those whose political system poses no such danger have no need to question it. Without their realizing il. their very words draw their power from the political context or frame in which they are spoken. The frame goes unnoticed or is taken !'or granted because it is part of the sHt stage. It is not until one has to give up or sacrificr, something that one realizes that something much bigger than self or even family, exists. 
Tlw "something bigger," or in this case, freedom, ber:omes the condition precedent to the merely incidental. Not that fatherhood is merely incidental. However. if you would havr, asknd a .Jew or an African American whether lrn'd pre((irred a native son to be with his father at Auschwitz or tlw plantation or not, I'm sure they would have much rallwr prefprrnd the latlPr. Posterity demands such a price. 
I think that Juan !\1iguel Gonzah1z knew, long beforn com­ing lwre, probably at the time of Elian's recovery, or short­ly thPreafter, that any petition for asylum filed on his behalf would probably be turned down. And that's because this present administration is not willing to pay the cost of another Mariel for an Elian. Knowing that the U.S. govern­nrnnt's denial (dl)Spite its manufactured sensitivity) would have ultimately lead to his untimely death upon his return to Cuba. '.'v!r. Gonzalez has acted reasonably within the face of danger. 
As Cuban Americans. we have to do two things. First, we have to do a better job of painting the big picture. So far, our emotions have gotten the best of us. And finally, we mwd to realize that somewhere in that picture, there are similar cultures and peoples, although somewhat different (a rainbow of colors). but just as beautiful nonetheless, whose circumstances bear a striking resemblance to those ol'our own. 
Manny Losada, Ph.D. 
Miami, Fl. April 29, 2000 
8 e,fl,,i,c,--t,j ! 

Send in your letters for the graduation edition. 
viewpoint. l@nd.edu 


SI article paints skewed picture of ND 
While the April 28 Sports Illustrated artide on the Notre ·name football program raises a number of valid issues, I wonder why the admissions office deems it ner,essary to even speak with SI when the article's intent is to paint an unfavorable picture of the office's role in recruiting student-athletes to Notre Dame. 
It is especially troubling that the circum­stances of individual admission deci­sions for student athletes are now national news, when those cir­cumstances should be a private matter for the prospective student, parents and the school. Wouldn't a simple "no comment" have suf­ficed'? 
Also, why does the admissions director allow SI lo take a photo of him as if he has just dccended from the throne of heaven inside the 0omc·t ls that the message the school wants to send'1 [tjust doesn't seem necessary. There is a media element that would never like Notre Dame even if we were national champs every year and the whole team went to the NFL and did off season work at Oxford -why fan the names'! This is PR 101-it seems! We haven't learned anything from the Joe Moore and Kim Dunbar PR fiascos. 
rt both'ers me that freshman calculus now appears to be the sole barometer of a student's future academic success. As a parent of two cur­rent Notre Dame students, I appreciate the benefits and standards of a rigorous academic curriculum. However, I struggled through calculus at Notre Dame almost 30 years ago and can honestly say that in 25 years as a CPA in public accounting and a CFO in private and public companies, I cannot recall one practical application of calculus in my day-to-day tasks. In addition, I have many class­mates who never took calculus and have gone on to outstanding profossional and personal r:areers since graduating from Notre Dame. Obviously, there are other success factors that are pertinent here, but in the article it appeared that certain people were denied admission sohiy because of a perr,cived inability to handle calculus. 
The last 10 years have indicated that Tony Hice and Chris Zorich are even better people than they wern Notre Dame football players. They succeeded because "T" \ '-of their own hard work and .,I.. I-a propPr support, but mostly because they were given a chance. It's too bad they wouldn't have that chance today. 
I don't kn;iw any of the recruits mentioned in the SI article. but I did have tho opportunity to see Jarrett Payton play and observe him at a 
few post-season ban­quets because my son-played in the same con­ference. He had a poise
:. ~~«~ e and presence that would .;' ...._ have fit well at Notre Dame. . ' Many of us saw that very well 
during the difficult time of his father's death. It's a shame he did 
not get the same opportunity as Rice and Zorich simply because someone thought he couldn't handle calculus. 
The admissions office at Notre Dame has a tough job, and many times it is a thankless one. I know from working on the Alumni Schools Committee here in the Chicago area that these people always have the best interests of Notre Dame at heart in whatever they do. 
But I don't think SI cares about that; they just wanted the story. Next time, certain parts of the story should stay in the family. 
Ed O'Connell Class of I974 Chicago, Ill. 

ROTC is cause to mourn 
Mourning, surely, is the deepest form of protest. And so, Pax Christi-ND mourns the ROTC Presidential Review that took place on South Quad last Wednesday. Indeed, that this glorification of violence took place at a Catholic university named after the mother of Jesus should be cause for us all to mourn. 
Instead of protesting this display of destructive power in a humble and peaceful fashion, as would befit ministers of the Church, "Reviewing Officers" Malloy and Warner -two men in part responsible for the Christian formation of Notre Dame students -stood with the officers of the deeply un­christian military. Monk's action suggests that "Country" and "Notre Dame" may have usurped "God" in the hierarchy we proclaim on the side of the Basilica. Our allegiance is not with the teach­ings of the Gospels, but rather with the authority of the state. This is morally reprehensible. 
Our administration tells us that we host the "Ministry of War" on campus so to infuse the mili­tary with officers of Christian moral sensibilities. They tell us that the U.S. military works to promote and sustain peace in the world. They tell us that, in accordanr:c with Just War Theory, the U.S. uses military force as only a last resort. If all this is true, then why do we proudly salute. ooh. aah and marvel at armed warplanes as they fly overhead? 
Do we not realize that an F-16, though techno­logically astounding, is manufactured to kill and destrny'? An F-16, ultimately, is no more than a really big gun. If. instead of a tly-by. a cadet squeezed off a few rounds from hT<i·M-16 into a human dummy, would we have been so transfixed in starry-eyed splendor? 
We mourn for the ROTC students who lined the South Quad in stiff formation. These young. intelli­gent and eager students are our classmates, room­mates and friends. We mourn for them because they are entering into an institution that uses vio­lence and fear to force others to conform to the whims of our nation. We mourn because they are entering into an institution that cares little for life, even when that life is one of their own -simply go to Washington to see the many homeless veterans who were once young, intelligent and eager mem­bers of the U.S. military. We mourn because our friends are entering an institution that will call upon them to offer their lives not for love of neigh­bor or self' or_ country, but lo defend unjust eco­nomic policies, dictatorship "democracies" and even oil. 
We could have been there on Wednesday protesting with posters and signs; instead, we pray for our University and we pray for our students in ROTC. 
And we mourn. 

Ben Peters Masrer of Divinity Asst. Rcccor Keollgh Hall Kyle Smith Senior Otl~Campus Pax Christi-ND April 30, 2000 

•
ene 

page 12 Monday, May 1, 2000 
TECH COLUMN 
Home of future is wired for-change 
With eomputers penetrating everyone's life at a staggering rate. it is only a malter of time unli! they enter the household with the same force. 
The idea of creating a "wired home" is nothing new, but.lately the steps toward making it a reality 


are becoming fewP-r and fower. Recen1.ly, there have been many advances in networking technolo­gy and wirelPss connections that will make the goal of a fully wired. housn possible. With the new devices that are coming out, like the ones I wrote about in my last column. the devir.es are already beginning to tu.kc it upon themselves to try and communi­
cate with each o'ther. Hut a uni-versa! standard is going to be rPquired lwfnre there is a home-computerized solution. The latest thing to hit the con­sumer market for the home is the 
Mike Revers 
access denied 

concept of Internet appliances. The first to market a device like this was the Netpliance Company who sold the first Internet appliance, the I-Opener, for about $200 at the end of 1998. Since tlrnn, compa­nies such as DHll, Compaq and Sun have all report­edly begun work on their own versions of thesr~ products. 
These devices an, in a montage of l'orms. but usu­ally offer the same basic functions. These functions ca;1 include things such as e-mail, the Internet. voice messaging or even virtual cnokbooks. But the products of the future will have much more than these basic functions. As the Internet gains more and more popularity, it will become the source for all of our interactions with others and our source for all the information we could ever want. You can already sign-up for daily e-mails on your favorite sports team or information on daily news in a city in any of th8 50 states. So, it is not too unbelievable to imagine a world where you download full movies, TV shows or even digital books -straight to a cen­tralized unit in your home for personal enjoyment. 
The Xerox company has recently invented digital paper which. when interacted with a scanner-like device, changes the print until you download anoth­er set of pagi;s. And other manufacturnrs have begun to crnate Internet appliances that are pnrtabl(! -like> the webpad from the Qubit Company that communicates with the Internet through a wireless connection. 
'Currently, it connects through a wireless modem but could easily be converted to a simple connection with a central computer in one's home. There is also a newer technology referred to as blue tooth technology, which allows multiple devices to "talk" to each other in a universal language, making for tighter interaction between electronic devices. 
With the world becoming more digitally minded and anxious for technology, these changes will eventually take shape. Once the bugs are worked out and the technologies involved are polished, we will all see a large amount of change take place in our daily lives. The homes of the future will have many new gadgets and gizmos -some of which have not even been imagined. One thing is for sure, though: Tlw home of the future is about lo get a lot more interesting. 
On a morn personal note, this is to be my final col­umn for The Observer here at Notre Dame. After being the network administrator for two years, this was a welcomed break from fixing the daily prob­lems that we have here. 
I hop(i that you have enjoyed reading the topics I discussed or that you at least read part of them. But most importantly, I hope that at least when you read my column you learned something from it. I am always happy to "talk tech" with anyone, which often annoys my l'amily. friends and counterparts. 
To all the other graduating seniors out there, con­gratulations and good luck. And, to all who we leave behind. remember that your time here is short and savor it while you can. Thanks for reading, and I will see you in C:ylrnrspace. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe wa!wr and n()l necessarily those of The Observer. 
Art and murder mix in 'Lo Mein' 

By MARY ANNE LEWIS 
Scene Writer 
The following is an excerpt of an interview with Hobert Eringer: 
Q What. inspirnd you to wrilo "Lo Mein?" 
A. A variety of disparate influ­ences, a balance of caffeine and alcohol, a dash of lunacy. And a brier newspaper articln about the dangers of eating squirrel brains. 
"After rejection number 45, Stukey began a countdown inside his Sohn loft." Willard Stukoy is a painter. Mornover. he is a creative genius l\lltitled to much fame and success. Hejection simply does not belong in his vocabulary, and he would never think to apply it to himself. But his first painting is not. received w11ll, nor his SBC­ond, nor his third -until he swears to himself that after the 50th rejection, he will switch media and thereby achieve the glory he so deserves and embodies. He will deposit his genius into other arnnas. Jin will devote himself to fulfilling his destiny as an artistic mas­ter. lie will make the public rncognize his superlativn talent. 
Willard Stukey, mass murdnr­er. famous American cnlebritv, began his career in Walt Disney World! 
That is correct, ladies and gents. Stukey has found a new medium: killing peopln. Now he must explore form. !low does one perl'onn the perfect killing; how does one bring about the divine ending? Form. after all, is of utmost importance -espe­cially in one's rnasterpi!icn ­TIIE grand finale. Kill some­body and fulfill rule number one in the art world: 
"Stir emo­tion." Fulfill rule num­bnr one in 
the  art  
world  and  
watch  the  

art collec­tors knock down your door just to speak to you. Willard Stu key is preparing himself to b r e a k records. W i 11 a rd Stukey has a plan. 
Meet "Lo Mein," a novel by Hobert Eringer, who was once upon a time a non­fiction writer and who now writes high­Iy-crnati ve novels. This pastime amuses him while simultaneously earning him money. Journalism did not suf­fice in providing the haven that he sought for his imaginings. And so he switched to a more inviting prospcr,t -the novel, as defined by Eringer. Ile loves 
Photo courtesy of Corinthian Books In "Lo Mein," an artist uses the attention he gains through mur­dering to promote his art -like the piece above, represented on 
the back cover of the novel. 
what he docs u.nd hopes his readers grasp such mirth from his writing. 
In his most recent book, "Lo Mein: A Novel," Eringer's imag­inative, zany and provocative Oare for the distortion ol' reality 
C O m C S 
through magnificent­ly, striking the reader 
u.t odd, but somehow wonderful, intervals. 
Somewhat like the author him­self, "Lo Mein 's" principal character, W i l I a rd Stukey, has decided to change his career a bit. T h i s explains his decision to perform innovative murders rather than paint. The former does, after all, require m o r c thought and preparation, provide 
more risk and excitement and 
receive more attention than the 
latter profession. 
'"I had to.' snapped Stukcy. 'No one was paying any atten­tion. My act of violence made them sit up, take notice. Sometimes desperate measures u.re necessary.' 
'Killing people?' 

'You have a hang-up about that?' 'Like, me and society in gen­eral, man.' Stukny looked straight ahr.ad. annoyed by this simpleton.'' 
Stukey soon finds himself' hav­ing to watch his bu.ck, for a Bruen Willis look-alikn­Tourette's syndrome-ridden for­mer FBI agent -hired by a worried and anxious Disney chairman -makes it his per­sonal mission to capture the nation's hottest criminal celebrity. Jeff Daikin is the name of that agent, and he and Stukey make for quite a pair. 
In his own way, Eringer tu.kes on the role of painter as hn por­trays a bizarre world with bright and flashing colors. vivid action and the insanity of wis­dom. 
"Lo Mein" is a book that will make one laugh and wonder about this crazy world. Eringer ensures that the reader takes on the role of writer while read­ing the book, for he leaves ideas and pu.ths wide-open through­out the novel. The rnader pro­vides the answers to questions concerning priorities. pop cul­ture, art and humanity. 
Finally, in the words of Robert Eringer: "Eventually everyone died. Life went on. 
"Three hundred years later, Willard Stukey was recognized as the greatest artist of his time. 
Lo mein." 

The novel is currently avail­able. See the publisher's web­site, http://www.corinthian­books.com, for additional pub­licity information. 



BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
O
rHE Monday, May l, 2000 BSERVER page 1 
Dietrich caps off sweet victory for seniors 
. No. 1 Keyplay.com edges NDToday.com 21-17 to win title 
Br KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
A,soci:11c Spom Editor 
Both K1,yplay.co111 rrnd ;-.JDTuday.com sailed through the Bookstorn Baskntball tour­nanwnt, llattnning thnir com­1wtitio11 like steamrollus. One had to lose when thP.y play.-cl mw anotll()r in Sunday's [inals. 
In a classir Bookstore show­down, lhP two teams traded lh1'. l1md throughout the game, 0111> that l'ould havP. <iasily go,w Pitlwr way. Kcyplay.r.om !'ound its nidw al tlrn right tinw. though. and scort)d Ow linal nve µoints to earn a 21­
17 victory and go hom1! cham­pions. 
N DToday.(·om 's B . .J. Kloska. a rrowd rtivoriLP, pul his squad alwad 17-1 h with a shot from behind tlw 3-point line. Thos!' wPrP tlw last points NDToday would sron•. as Knyplay siJ1,ncl'd tlwir orfonsP tlw n!st 
of tlw wav. 
"Down.tlw strdch. I think vv<> at! gol our s<>r.ond \Vind." K,•yplay·s Tom llil'lrich said. "!John l TPasdali· had a rnuplP big baskPts. Cas ISch1wllPrl had a 1·ouplP big rPl)()unds. Paul [\loon·! clampPd down on dPfl'llS{' . .Jimmy IDillon I had that :l-point sh~t. That was a bomb. That madP them tightPn up on df'!'pnsP, and lPt us g'l't lo tlH' bask('L" 
Dillon finallv found his varsi­t~· playing l"or;n afkr an unim­p n•ssiv1• start, and slamnwd hnnw a dunk on a pass !'rom Tournanwnt "vlVP Dic•trirh. 
I\DTodav turned th1• ball 11\er its n;•xt trip do\\n tlw rnurt. tlwn l'ou!Pd Keyplay's SrhtwllPr Lo send him to llw l'rPl' thro,v Jin!'. Schn<•llPr missPd tlw rn•,• shot, but his !Pam rPtai,wd possPssion, and DiPlrirh pourNI in OIW or his tPam-high 1•ight bmkPts with a pull up jumpl'r. 
"I thought that wti matdwd 
up with llwm pnitly V\f'll with 
the PXcptHion of Torn 
lllit)trirhl," KlosklL said. "Ile 
shot tlw lights out i!wry tinw 
lw gol the ball. That's what 
MVP's do." 
Down 18-17, NDToday missed a shot whieh bounced a jump ball, and this time the advancfHI to the Final fnur the Final Four the past two Keyplay's way the rest of the out ol' bounds to hand posses­possossion arrow pointed in together two seasons ago, and years. and made it over the afternoon. sion lnu·k Lo KPyplay. Dribbling favor of KPyplay. Dictrkh, who repealed that performance last hump yesterday. Those guys "Tom [Dietrich I was on all down thP n>url. Dillon drnw up was rnd-hot all dav from tho year with Teasdale. This yoar. were great, Versatility aud day," Mikolyzk said. "lie kept and knocknd down a surprise lit•ld, continued his·stri>ak. lie they pulli>d in Dillon after his NDToday." hitting his outside shots.•· attrrnpt. a long-distance shot took u 3-fighting The two teams were the top NDToday had two players on from well !Jrhind the 3-µoiut point-rang11 Irish bas­two seeds frurn the start uf the the First Team All-Tournament lilw that gave Keyplay all the sbot. anrl "We really wanted to make ket b a 11 Lournament, and the box score in Kloska and Mikolyzk, and lllOITll'l1llllll. even the career con­showed there were 13 ties in Muething was named to the
sure u1e were the ones cm 
In a loosi> ball situation. refs hand of r I u de d, thP. game. The two teams wern Second Team.
fire at the end this time. We
1:all1,d a _jump ball. which kPpt NDToday's and, with tied at every point interval but "It's really nice to be recog­possession in the hands of T i m were determined to go out f O LI r one in the first half. nized arter four ve ars." NDToday. But they missPd their Muething seniors, got Roth Kloska and Dietrich Mikolyzk said. "My whole team
as winners. 
nnxt shot, and wern called for a in his face the results scored live baskets in the Drsl earned this award." 
l'oul on thf' rpbound Knyplay rouldn't thev'd period. NDToday went into In addition to Dietrich being 
had missed its first three prevent it Cas Schneller searched halftime ahead 11-10 after named Tournament MVP, 
attempts from tlrn charity from going Keyplay.com for the past behind the arc shot by Keyplay's Schneller earned 
stripe, but T11asdale managed d o w n . two years. Mikolyzk. He also scored the Second Team All-Tournament 
to nail one to give Keyplay a Dietrich's "We· v e first hoop of the second stanza, honors. 
20-17 lead, just onH point from nothing-but-net shot was a per­beP.n to this place two years laying one in to make it 12-10 While only Teasdale is an 
victory. fect ending to a Bookstore before, and ended up on the NDToday. underclassmen from Keyplay's 
"Our l'ouls in the end killed Basketball career, and the losing end both times," Oietrich answered with a shot squad, NDToday returns all but 
us," NDToday's Dave Mikolyzk senior wound up his three sea­Schneller said. "We really that set the tone for the rest of Mikolyzk and Mark Godish. 
said. "That had a lot lo do with sons of playing in the tourney wanted to make sure we were the game, a 3-poinl.er that ''I'll come _back next year to 
thr ,mding. It just went their by earning a team champi­the ones on fire at the end this bounced well above the back­watch you guys win," Godish 
way al the end." onship and MVP title. time. We were determined to board but fell through the net, promised Kloska as he walked 
The two squads scrapped for Dietrich, Moore and Schneller go out as winners. We went to and the ball continued to roll off the cnurt. 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, May 1, 2000 
Brandenburg pulls off three-peat with JAAKE 
Serond String f'ound themselves in foul 
By BRIAN KESSLER trouble. but JMKE couldn't capitalize. 
Assistant Spore. Editor JAAKE bricked three free throws and 
Muffct's Second String startrd to gain 
When Erin Brandenburg took the court some confidence. in the finals or Bookstore Basketball Sophomore Meg lleynders of Muffet's XXIX, she had one thought in mind ~ Second String opened th<\ S(!Cond half' three-peat. with a sweet drive and lay-up. Then 
And Sunday, the third-year law student McEwen, Sullivan and Holly Hoffman got surely played like it. in on the action, rattling off three straight 
Brandrnburg poured in eight points to hoops to make a gami> of' it. Heynders lead No. ·1 JA~KE to a 21-9 victory over scored again to cap the 5-0 run and cut Nu. 2 Muffct's Second String in ahard the lead to 11-7. JAAKE, however, strug­
fought game that took morn than an hour gled shooting at the rock at its second half to complete. rim. "I think the differ­"l was getti11g sick to ence was experience." "J think the difference my stomach [when they said Brandenburg, made that run],"
was experience."

who captured her Brandenburg said. "We third straight womfm's werr taking somr good Bookstore title. "Kelli Erin Brandenburg shots, but the lid Moran and I won it JAAKE wouldn't come off the last year and Amy rim. We were able to Andi>rson and I won stick together though and 
the year before. So we definitely had hang in therr. and even­experience un our side." tually we wern able to break them down. JA<\KE took advantage of that experi­We knew we were playing good defense 
ence early on. Brandenburg and Moran and so if they were going to come back it were on lire from the outside and J1\AKE was going to take a long time." jumprd out to a 6-0 lead. JAAKE flVPntuallv settled down and 
"We didn't know how we would do Moran finally put ·an end to Muffet's 
against their zone, so it was tough early Second String's run. JA.AKE stepped up on,'' Brandrnburg said. "We started to the intrnsity on defense and held its oppo­make a run and then they switched to nent to just two points down the stretch. JOHN DAILYfThe Observer 
man and we knew we could play against McEwen scored twice for Muffet's Second Meghan Grisham of Muffet's Second String drove her team past No Name but man defense." String, but missed free throw and poor Got Game into the finals, but couldn't get past JAAKE for the championship. Freshman Kaitlin McEwen finally got execution led to its demise. 
•

Muffet's Second String on the scoreboard JAAKE took advantage of turnovers and "Usually everyone else steps up, but blast," Brandenburg said. "They were and Colleen Sullivan added a jumper to fast break opportunities to close out the today, my teammates were making good tough. But we all wanted this bad and we cut the lead to 6-2. victory. Brandenburg's drives and passes and I was hitting my shots in the came.. out and really played well as a 
JAAKE, however, went on a 5-0 run to Anderson's rebound baskets accounted first half. Then we really got our fast team. close the half. Brandenburg drained two for seven of JMKE's second half points. break going in the second half." JMKE advanced to the championship long range shots and Abby Coons, Jen Moran finally ended it with a game-win­Moran scored five points for JMKE and game with a 21-12 over No. 4 Silk Stefanski and Anderson each added a ning free throw. Amy Anderson had four. Kaitlin McEwen Puppets in Friday's semifinal game. bucket to give JAAKE an 11-2 advantage Brandenburg led the way for JAAKE scored a team -high four points in a losing Muffet's Second String made it to the at the break. with a game high eight points. effort for MufTet's Second String. finals with a win over No. 6 No Name but 
Early in the second half. Muffet's "That was rare," Brandenburg said. "It was fun out there; I really had a Got Game. 
Hall of Fame game showcases talent of Bookstore 

Bookstore 2000 Awards 
Mr. Bookstore -Steve Craig (Franchise) MVP -Tom Dietrich (Keyplay.com) Iron Man (courage through injury) ­
Matt Wolbeck (Majesties) -Severed nerve in forearm Hoosier Award (Player who shoots the most, but scores the least) -Red Croker (Coco Butter) Golden Hatchet (Bookstore's biggest hacker) ­Dan McGowan (Double Down) 
First Team All-Bookstore 
Ross Hansen -Versatility Pete Ryan -Majesties Dave Mikolyzk -NDToday.com Sean McCarthy -F-Bombs BJ Kloska -NDToday.com 
Second Team All-Bookstore 
Cas Schneller -Keyplay.com . Tim Muething -NDToday.com Matt Canna -Franchise Doug Bartels -F-Bombs Justin Heberle -Majesties 
Third Team All-Bookstore 
Chris Dillon -Versatility Jason Childress -Versatility Brian Ostick -Please Call Us Bosephus Coley Brady -Double Down Brett Ganson -Mourning Wood 
All-Davie Team (Bookstore's Best Football Players) 
John Owens -Coco Butter Tony Fisher -Coco Butter John Teasdale -Keyplay.com Gary Godsey -Rampage Brian Olenicek -Nylon Strokers 
Ryan, Coley Brady and Matt After seeing their lead
• Doherty plays 

Canna, in addition to Keough stretched to 16-9, the Goldto crowd with Hall rector and Nunc Dimittis team moved to put the gamefiesty play in gold player Father Tom Doyle. out of reach. Mighty Mouse 
The Gold team triumphed Matt Canna did just that,team victory over a Blue team that was dunking on basket that was 
captained by leprechaun Mike thought to be far out of his By KEVIN BERCHOU Brown and coached by athlet­reach with a boost from team­Spores Writer ic director Kevin White. Todd mate Pete Hyan. 
Palmer suited up for the Blue From there on in, the "real squad, but was outdone by his pros" took over, as Doherty
What do you get when you 

coach who seemed to relish buried a couple long-range
combine campus celebrities, 

his role as the "go-to guy." bombs before Sky Owens
Bookstore all-stars and a little debauchery on a bright, sunny "We focused on shutting caught an alley-oop off the 
down Palmer," Doherty said. backboard and slammedSunday afternoon on the 
Though the casual observer home the victory.
Stepan Center Courts? 

may have thought otherwise, Father Doyle did the clergy
Trouble? No, the Bookstore 

the Irish proud with
Basketball Hall of Fame game 

coach hasn't his feisty
of course. 

'Tm amazed how Sky and
In a contest that was far had much play 

time to work contributed
more fun than it was furious, Owens doesn't practice 

on his game. several
Gold defeated Blue 21-11 in 
all year and then comes

"I haven't assists to the
the annual Bookstore 

worked on it out and is all ready for effort. But
Basketball Hall of Fame clas­

all year, Doherty was
sic on an afternoon that fea­Bookstore. " 

Doh.erty u m
tu rcd everything from a n i ­
admitted. "If pressed.
Leprechaun making a layup to 

I did I'd be Matt Doherty "It's a
a Notre Dame coach (surprise) 
broken

heckling the officials. Gold team good thing down." he has a job
Men's basketball coach Matt All Doherty

Doherty was on hand tu steal on campus 
did Sunday was brnak down as a rector, because he
the show, showcasing a daz­

the competition. After finding bf1longs on the bench in a col­
zling repertoire of long range shooting and reverse lay-ups, his touch from three-point lar,'' Doherty noted em phati­
range, Dohf1rty forced the cally.
while swatting shot after shot 

defense to respect his "game" Always on the lookout fur
from his defensive post. Sparked by the fiery play of and was able to compensate talent to help next year's var­for his obvious lack of speed sity team, Doherty admittedDoherty, its captain, the Gold 

with some ball fakes that led that he found none, but didsquad bolted to an ll-6 half­to some highlight reel buck­note that Mike Brown "would
time lead and never looked ets. make a good leprechaun."
back. 

The Gold team was also Arter leading the Gold tPam
"The guys were intense on 

boosted by the solid play ol' to victory, Coach Doherty haddefense and unselfish with the 
ball on offense," Doherty Owens. who was mocked by high hopes for another of' his Doherty for finally getting pupils to score a Sunday
noted. "I thought we played 

real well." some playing time. afternoon victory. Doherty Teamed with familiar com 'Tm amaz(id how Sky stuck around for the men's
-

Owr!ns doesn't practice all final, the result of which he
pany in f'ormer player Skylard Owens, L)ohcrty and his pro­vcar and then comes out and correctly predictC'd. 

is all rnady for Bookstore," ".Jimmy Dillon all the way,"tege led a team that also fea­
said a baffled Doherty. he had said.
tured Hookstoro all-stars Pete 
a 

Monday, May 1, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
For love or money, Bookstore played for the love 
-,. 
players." NDToday.com junior B.J.
• Top-notch talent 
rans see top-notch co1npeti­Kloska, a First Team All­makes tournament tors, some of whom could have Tournament pick. was sought unique event starred at the collegiate level al after to play Division II basket­
a lesser-known college or uni­ball but the Elkhart native chose versity, but chose instnad to <md to come to NotrP Dame instead.
In a time when fans pay their competitive r.areers (aside· "My whole dream had alwaysupwards or $20 to sco a college from the annual Bookstore been to come to Notrn Damebaskntball game in which the Basketball competition) in favor and play basketball and eventu­players arP of't1rn morn interest­of a stint at Notre JJame. ally get a diploma," Kloska. said. 
ed in securing multimillion dol­One example is Tournanrnnt Kloska managed to walk onlar NBA MVP Tom Dietrich, who gave the Fighting Irish basketball contracts. 
fans an eyeful with his high­team a year ago. but chose notBookstore scoring performances on the· to repeat the effort this season.
BaskPtball road to a title with Keyplay.com. He kept playing hoops at Rolfsolfors the Di0trich scored a school record ('Very day to prepare forNotrn Dame 1,200 points at Alliance lligh Bookstore. which helped him1:ommunity School anrl was named to the form some great fri1rndships.
the biggest All-Ohio team as a senior. Ile "When you really make thebargain in was recruited to play college friends. H's down there atllw house. 
ball at Division 1schools such as Holfs," Kloska said. "lt's inter­Onlookers Vamlerbilt, Bowling Green and esting because the guys you seegl't a frnp Miami (Ohio). But he passed up down there every day are the 
scat to 
those prospects in favor of ones who make the final eight, watch great watching Notre Dame basket­the linal four. It's friends before basketball ball from the sidelines. the game and after the game, 

~.~DCTA.' Men's
5AID Bookstore 2000 Results 
Championship 
Keyplay.com def NDToday.com (21-17) 
Final Four 
Keyplay.com def.Versatility (21-15) NDToday.com def. Majesties (21-11) 
Elite Eight 
Majesties def. Franchise (21-17) Versatility def Coco Butter (21-18) NDToday .com def F-Bombs (21-17) Keyplay.com def Please call us Bosephus (21-10) 

.. 
playcd by done, you have to walk away "There's nothing like it. That's
This year's Mr. Bookstore, but during the game, there's a 
guys revvm.l with a smile on your face." the best part, the crowd sup­
Franchise's Steve Craig, likely switch that turns on." 
up and Several football players port," First Team All­
could have kPpt. his carPer going Second Team All-Tournament
CX!'.itml about every chauce to starred on the hardwood in high Tournament designee Hansen
beyond prep school. At Notre senior Camm. a short but scrap­
compHtP. Tlrny get to watch school. Hit Squad's Eric said. "!lalf of them am heckling
Dame. however. his basketball py guard, wouldn't change a
play11rs give it their all day after Chappell was named all-state in you and half of them are cheer­
competition consisted of pickup thing about his decision to com1c1
day for lhti oftf1n overloukPd basketball as a senior. Tony ing for you. It's just a great
games at Rolfs and title runs in to Notre Dame and hang up his
rcvmrds of onlookers' cheers Fisher of Coco Butter averaged atmosphere to play in." 
Bookstore. Nol that hP regrets hightops.
and npponents' respect. 20 points and 10 rebouods per That atmosphere. created by
the trade-in. "When I was in high school. I
"One ol' my f'avoritP images of game. And Javin Hunter was the fans. players and r.ommis­
'Tm just lucky because I got thought about maybe playing in 
tile tournament is walking up named the MVP of the state bas­sioners alike, makes Bookstore 
to play with great players for college," Canna said, "Rut I also
that hill at Stepan and si=,eing ketball tournament his sopho­Basketball the best show in
four years," Craig said. "You kept in mind that college is for 
!rn11dn1ds of students just out more and junior seasons. town.
have to go deep into the tourna­one thing and one thing only,
Llwrc to watch a pickup game Versatility's Ross Hansen. a 
ment to win this. The tourna­and that's a diploma. It W!lS
with Hi normal guys," Division l prospect in high The views expressed in this 
ment itself is so much fun. I kind of a pipe dream for me. My
Franchisn player '.Vlatt Canna school, did just that as he played column are those of the author 
enjoyed it all four years, and I four years here have been fan­
said. "I think the fans almost Bookstore because of the bois­and not necessarily those ofThe
think they knew how much I tastic. I wouldn't change that for
have a betfor tirrni than the terous atmosphere. Observer.
enjoyed it." anything. After it's all said and 
NDToday.com, Keyplay.com roll to Final Four victories 
"We get our offense from  our  Following an 11-7 halftime  throw, one of three he bricked  game, but could  never  pull  
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assuci,,r~ Sports E<liwr  defense," Mikolyzk said. "Even when we got ahead by a lot, we didn ·t let up on defense. and that  lead. Keyplay let Versatility back into it. Versatility's Joe Lillis drove the lane, Jason Childress  down the strntch. Versatility. on the other hand, hit two of its three frne throw attempts. And  away. Todd Titus and Mark Godish hit consecutive shots to give NDToday a 17-14 edge.  
NDToday.com romped through the Buokston• Basketball semifi­nals with a 21-10 ride over the No. IO Majesties. Thti second-seeded team scored the lirst four baskets uf the ganw on drivf's by Todd Titus and B . .l. Kloska, a 3-point range shot by Kloska and an off­b a I an cc jumpnr by Dave Mikolyzk. The Majesties' Justin 1leberh\ who was named to the SPcond Team ,\LI-Tournament. triml to answer with two shots from bnhind tlw 3-point line, but NIHiiday kept on knocking shots down. ··we always think we're going to go out and play harder than tht1 other learn," NDToday's Tim Mucthing said. "Ifyou just get off to a good start. then you're on a roll and it helps." Th11 l'avornd team wm1t into halftime up 11-4. Mikolyzk nailed nearly all his attempts from tlw lield. hitting five of his team's 11 baskets in the first poriod. '"They were falling today," Mikolyzk said. "We wanted to jump out quick and make them play from behind." To start off the second half, Muething ar.c~d in a jumper, one which Majesties' Corey Hartmann quickly countered with a jump shot of his own. Kloska. a former Notre Dame baskntball walk-on. swished three shots from 1rnar the 3­poinl line or beyond to give NDTodav a 15-6 l•'ad. Tlrn t~·o teams traded baskets the next two times down the court. Heberle made a jump shot for Majesties, then Mikolyzk drovn the lane to make the score I(>-7. Ilelrnrle drove beneath the IJask,~t for a reverse lay-up, and NDToday's Muclhing swooshed a trny lo put Lim scorn at 17-8.  made it hard for them to get back into it." An NOToday foul put llarlmann at the line to knock down a free throw, and Majesties' Peter Ryan scored to close the score to 17-10. After that, NDTodav finished off the Majesties. Titus put back a rebound for a bucket. Kloska and Mikolyzk nailed free throws. And following a lay-in by the Majesti('.s' Ryan. Kloska dropped in a long jumper to ice the victo­ry. The on-fire shooting of NDToday was the key tu the vic­tory, as it rarely missed a shot. "They were sharp from the outside," Majesties' Matt Wolbeck said. "We tried to swing out on their shooters, and get a hand in their face every time. Obviously. it's disappointing to lose in the semis. Our ultimate goal was to win the whole thing, but we came up a little short. We'll be back next year." Top-ranked Keyplay.com suf­fered through sloppy play and ice-cold shooting to advance to the finals with a 21-15 victory over fifth-ranked Versatility. "It was nice to get in a close game for once," Keyplay's Tom Dietrich said. "It was a pretty rough game. Our rebounding helped. We didn't get them too many extra shots." The semifinals round match was filled with turnovers and defensive stops for both teams. After Keyplay jumped out to a 6­2 lead on three baskets by sharp-shooter Dietrich. there was a stretch in which neither team scored on 15 straight pos­sessions. The offense improved somewhat after that, as Versatility's Ross Hansen got into a groove and Dietrich con­verted on a couple key drives.  banged in a bucket and Chris Dillon pulled up for a long jumper to make it 12-10. Keyplay's Jimmy Dillon put back a bucket and Dietrich hit a free throw to widen the gap to 14-10. As the game wore on, the careless play continued. But Keyplay got a few more of its shots to fall, and that was the dill'erence in the game. "They just had too many weapons," Childress said. "[t was a scrappy effort by both teams. I think we missed a lot of shots we should have hit. They played good defensi=, though." Quarterfinals Fourth-and fifth-ranked Coco Hutter and Versatility battled to the finish, with Versatility win­ning out 21-18 by earning the edge on free throws. Versatility stormed to an early 10-4 lead behind the play of First Team All Tournament play­er Ross Hansen. "We started off too slow, and just could never get things going," Coco Butter's Red Croker said. But Coco Butter climbed back into competition, as it got two baskets by Croker, one by John Owens, one by Justin Thomas and another by Doug Conners to make the score 10-9. Coco Butter scored three of the next four points to grab a 12-11 lead on two Croker jump shots and a Tony Fisher rebound putback. Things were nip-and-tuck early in the second half, but Hansen nailed a reverse la.yup and a jumper to put Versatility ahead 17-14. Fisher answered with a long-distance shot, but Versatility scored the next two buckets. Owens missed a key free  Hansen banged in the final buck­Sean McCarthy, a First Team All et for the victory. Tournament selection, answered "It helped. us getting 10 fouls with a bucket of his own. Godish on them," Joe Lillis said. "We've and McCarthy traded hoops all played high school ball, and again. followed by an F-Bombs we'vf\ played a lot here, so we hoop to narrow the scoring gap know how to shoot those pres­to18-17. sure free throws." Titus made a shot, followed by While Coco Butter and a basket by the F-Bombs' Matt Versatility engaged in their tight Canna that left the score 19-18 quarterfi-NDToday. Two nals battle, First Team All No. 6 "We think they {Please Call Tournament Majesties players fin­Us Bosephus] are going to and No. 3 ished thingsbe the team to beat the Franchise off for played a next three years. " NDToday, as similarly Kloska sealed close game an off-balanceCas Schneller on the next driving jumperKeyplay.comcourt over, and Mikolyzk with the hit the game-two games winning shot. matching one another point for "Both teams gave it the best point. they could," F-Bombs' Doug Majesties worked its way to a Bartels said. "Some shots didn't 9-4 lead, and Franchise came fall the way we wanted them to, back a la Coco Butter, scoring but that's basketball." the next five points to tie things Senior-laden Keyplay.com up. The two teams matched used its age and experience to points on every bucket up until beat the all-freshman Please Call the teams were even at 17. Us Bosephus squad. Suddenly Majesties figured out Dietrich, Dillon and Paul how to shut Franchise down. Moore combined for all 11 first Hartmann drove for a basket, half points by the winning team. starting a four-point run for the In the second period, Schneller underdogs. lit things up with a 3-pointer, "I thought there were some layup break and drive. Referees calls that didn't go our way, and had to pause the game just in the end, we didn't hit our before completion as Dietrich shots," Franchise's Dan Reidy was bleeding at the elbow and said. the knee. NDToday.com survived a chal­Although Keyplay didn't have lenge from the upstart No. 7 F­too much trouble with Please Bombs. outdueling its competi­Call Us Bosephus, it expects the tion 21-19. young team to be a force to con­"They played reaBy rough and tend with in future Hookstore physical," Kloska said. "We were tournaments. just fortunate to pull this one "We think they are the team to out." beat the next three years." J\iDTodav carried a one to two Schneller said. "They're going to point lead through most of the be great."  

SLY._. .. t 
40 

w .... C U 4 4.U a es a 434 SI a
4

F• • z •-as 
-

O
TI-H page 4 BSERVER Monday, May 1 , 2000 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer NDTr"ay.com's Dave Mikolyzk, a First Team All Tournament selection, goes up for a jumper over Keyplay.com's John Teasdale. 
photos ~y JOHN DAILY and JEFF HSU 
All the sentiments came out in Keyplay.com's  
Yictory over NDToday.com, from excitement in tri­ 
umph to disappointment in loss, from exhilaration  
after a made 3-pointPr to frustration at a missed  
shot. The hundreds or fans gathered at Stepan to  
watch tlw game got more than their 11wn0y's  
worth, as they saw a nailbiter game for no cost.  JEFF HSU/The Observer Keyplay.com's Jimmy Dillon slams home a dunk after catching the ball mid-air on a pass from  
Tom Dietrich. The basket started a five-point run for Keyplay.com that cemented its victory over  
NDToday.com.  

Bookstore Basketball XXIX 


C 
ne 

Monday, May 1, 2000 page 13 
ND Opera adds musical twist to Hansel and Gretel 
By BRIAN SEAMAN Scene The;itcr Criric 
Voices soarPd this weekend as the Notre Dam11 Opera appeased the audience's swuP.t tooth with a produclion of Engelbert Humperdinck's "Hansel and Gretel." 
Setting the famous fairy tale to beautiful lyrical melodies and lines, llumperdinck ably extPnds the rangp of this tale far past two children. their parents and a witch. by adding angels. a sandman and a dew fairy -all to good effect. 
D1\spito this extension, the production nonoth11lnss remains focused on the adven­tures and trials of the Litle characters. I !ansel and Gretel, played in this produc­tion by Michello Holden and J\nney Gi!lottc rnsp(ictively. 
Playing Gretel. Annoy Gillotto delighted tlrn audience, warming the stage with her cherubic face and gentle voice. While singing opposite a performer wilh a bil 11111m vocal maturity. Gillotte nevertheless charmed the audience. inviting them not only to wilnpss her character's happiness, but also to smile right along with her. 
As an encrgetir.ally na'ive Hansel, Mich11lle !lold,rn commanded attention with lmr soaring voice and strong abilities. 
Ms. Holden's mastery of the stage was especially apparent while engaged in child­ish play throughout the show, her voice reflecting an enjoyment of the task at hand. 
Yet. it is this very enjoyment which seemed lacking in the production as a whole. Despite the opera being about two playful children. the actors were at times too concentrated on the moving melody lines to consider their enjoymnnt as char­acters or singers. 
This was evident throughout, yet espe­cially apparent in a scene in which Hansel and G:-etel come upon the candy coated house of the evil witch. Instead of being elated by the absolute joy of such a child­hood dream abode, they were restrained -as if they were so concentrated on mak­ing the singing beautiful that conveying a sense of joy to the audience was sec­ondary. 
Yet the energetic shot in the arm that this production needed was provided with brilliance by Paula Rae Kearney in her role as the Witch. · 
Kearney's first entrance, painted with black teeth and menacing fingernails, was comic perfection, peeking out of a Dutch door with a menacing joy. From this moment on, the production took a turn in a 



~ DircctillfJ Fim..ib -t/m~c orw-m:r p/uys in the Lob T/}('(llrt', Wos/1ill<Jlon Hull, ,:oo JJ in. -free ncfmbsion 
-S,\IC fl<Titul Forum. J:.:! p.111. -, p.m., Uttk Tlwotrc 
Friday 
STUDY DAY 

-.Sprinn s, PincJ nonce ur tlw JACC. 7-J I pm, $5 tl'it/1 NDISJ\JC ID 
~ "Tl lC' TCll<'I lf('(/ i\ lr. Riplqj" in J() I J)C'BUl1olo (I/ H p.m. fr W:3U JJ.1 n. -$2 u<lmi.ssion 
-Directing Finals. V\'aslli11gro11 /loll. 7:(X) p.m. -free admission 

much more exciting direc­tion. 
With such a performer join­ing the zestful Holden and Gillotte onstage, "Hansel and Gretel" f'inallv came fully into its own. While the production up to Kearney's entrance was technically impeccable, only with the witch's entrance did the audience become fully involvf1d in the action. 
During the hilarious sequence in which Gretel saves herself from scorching in the witch's oven, Gillotte and Kearney played · comic prattle off each other gloriously -suggesting to the audience that these actresses would be equally per­fect in a musical comedy. 
Apart from Gillotte. Kearney claimed the stage as her own during a sky high solo performance in the third act. Brandishing a magic wand. this lovably terrifying witch clicked her clawish fingernails at the audi­ence, in"viting them to fall under the same spell as the children. 
While casting her spell, the witch shook her hips as if her feminine wiles were the basis of her magic; such a transfer of voice into body carriage was wonderful. 
Gillotte, Holden and Kearney collectively were sheer candy coated delight for the audience, yet these singers were required to work extra hard at points to have their voices heard over the booming volume of the orchestra. 
Conducted by John Apeitos, the orches­tra was -as with the actors -technically superior. Though. whether due to the acoustics of Washington Hall or simply due to the number of musicians, the singers 
-Seniors· Last Class Dinner at St>nior Bar. 5 -7 p.m.. $2 with student JD 
-Diwrti119 Fi11ols. Woshingron Holl. 7:CXJ p.m. -Ji-c-".e admission 
l,ost /sstu-> qfThe Obsen1er 

-Book Readino for mothers and children by south Bend rn1t/1or Julie Wolters in tile f-lommes Booksrore, 1 1 c.1.m. 
-"The Tole, Jted fl.'lr. Ripley" ii 1 Io J neBartolo ar 8 p.m. mn1 10:30 p.m. ~ S2 admission 
-SMC "Girl 1111ern1ptecl, .. s p.m.. Corroll l\uciitorium 
were many times completely drowned out by the instrumentalists. 
During the first act, the orchestra was so dominating that details or lines were often lost to the audience, thereby causing plot discrepancies. \\lhile no one can be blamed for this distraction, it nonetheless detracted from the overall effectiveness of the evening. 
Volumes notwithstanding. the perform­ers involved rose above any technical prob­lems the production may have had. A'i in prior years, the Notre Dame Opera has proven that the musical talent on campus is extremely high. 
After tossing the witch into her oven, Hansel and Gretel happily sing "Oh. the witch is toast," providing the audience with a giggle in what can be -at times -a serious opera. 
Yet. as with the title characters, all does have a happy ending and the crowd at Washington Hall this weekend definitely walked out the door with a sweet taste in their collective mouth. 
STUDY DAY 
-"The Taknted f\.1r. Hiµ/ey" in 1o J DeBC1rtolo at J0:30 p.m. -S2 arlmissio!l 
-SMC SprillQ Choral Co/lcert, 
7:30 p.m., Little Theoter 
-Book Hending LJ!J Norre Dame Alum, Stn1e11 Varni. 2:30 µ.m., Hammes Bookstore 
-Seniors, wriw a poem, s/1ort story or other creatiue piece reflecting on your years at Notre name for the Commencernent edition of The 0/Jsen,er. 


------------------------------~---------~ 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, May 1, 2000 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Bench play leads Kings to 99-91 win over Lakers 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO. Calif. 

Shaquille O'Neal lost his shooting touch. Kobe Bryant was slowed by foul trouble. And suddenly. the mighty Los Angeles Lakers were not invin­cible. 
Chris Webber had 29 points and the Sacrnmcnto bench finally camr. alive. sparking an 18-4 run in the fourth quarter. as the Kings defeated the Lakers 99-91 Sunday to stav alive in the playoffs · · 
The Lakcrs won the first two games by comfortable margins in Los Angeles. Game 4 in the best-of-five series is Tuesday night at Sacramento. · 
O'Neal had 21 points and 17 rebounds. but went 8-for-22 from the field and 5-for-14 from the foul line. Bryant. who picked up his fourth foul early in the third period. had 16 of his 35 points in the fourth quar­ter. 
Predrag Stojakovic had 19 points and Tony Delk added l 1 as the Kings' self-proclaimed "Bench Mob," which bad little success in the first two games of the series, <>u-ts;,oretl the Lakers' reserves 34-11. 
The Kings still face a harrow­ing task as they try to upset the best team in the NBA this sea­son. Only 12 teams have rallied to win a series after trailing 2­
0. and none since the Houston Rockets in 1995. 
Sacramento opened the fourth quarter with a 7 -1 run. taking its first lead of the game on a 3-pointer by Stojakovic with 9:43 remaining after Delk 
CLASSIFIEDS 
twice kept the possession alive with offensive rebounds. 
O'Neal's dunk and two bas­kets by Bryant gave Los Angeles a 78-73 lead. but the Kings replied with a 14-0 run that included another ]-poinit>r by Stojakovic, a windmill dunk bv Webber and Vlado Divac's block of a layup by O'Neal. 
After Glen Rice scored !'or Los Angeles to end the run. Delk and Webber scored baskets to give Sacramento a 91-80 lead with 3:18 remaining. 
Leading 51-46 al halftime, the 1.aker.s used a 9-0 run ­including a 360-dcgrne spin­ning layup by Bryant and Hice's 3-pointer -to take a 64-54 lead early in the third period. The Kings pulled within a point late in the period, but trailed 71-66 go•ing into lhe fourth quarter. 
The Kings missed 11 of their first 13 shots and fell behind 1 S-7 midway through the first period. A three-point play by Rice gave the Lakers a 27-1 7 lead late in the first quarter. 
The Kings hit eight or their trnxt 11 shots, responding with a 13-3 run and tying the game at 30-30 on a jumper by Stojakovic, but the Lakers answered with a 9-0 run. 
A three-point play by O'Neal. following a turnover by Williams on an errant behind­the-back pass, made it 44-36. The Lakers. led by O'Neal's 15 points and 12 rebounds. held a five-point halftime lead. 
Knieks 87, Raptors 80 
On to Miami for the New York Knicks. who got a lucky 3­
pointer from Larry Johnson to  utes in the first quarter and did  seasons, had his second triple­ 
swl1ep the Toronto Raptors.  not score, then sat out the final  double  in  a  week  with  23  
Johnson bunked in  a 3-po.int­ !'our minutfls of the second  points. 12 rebounds and 10  
er from  a  llfHtrly straight-away  quarter in  a  curious move  by  assists as  the Wolves pulled  to  
angle with 24.2 seconds left to  coach Butch Cartor.  2-1 in the best-of-live series.  
ltiad the Knicks to a victory over  New York missed  10 of it;;  Game 4 is Tuesday night at  
the Haptors in the first NBA  first 11 shots as Toronto started  Target Center.  
playoff game played in Canada.  2-for-11, and neither team led  Only four  teams have over­ 
"Dcl'initely. the gods  were  by more than fivfl in a first half  come a  2-0 deficit since 1984.  
with  mP , "  .Joh n son  said .  '' I  which endf'd with Urn Knicks  when the league adopted the  
didn't call a bank on that one."  ahead 46-45. llouston led tho  best-or-live format for the first  
The Knicks had lo work hard  Knie ks with 10 points. wbil11  round of tlrn playoffs.  
for this one. just as  they did in  Davis had 14 for Toronto to  Playing just  their  second  
the  first  two  games  or  the  make up for a lack ol' produc­ home game in three weeks, Urn  
series, and the difforence came  tion from Cartr.r and Tracv  Wolves did what they couldn't  
down  to  whir.h  team  could  McGrady.  .  do in Portland: stil'lc Scottie  
make the right decisions and  The llaptors made the first  Pippen (Hi points). cxerute  
sink the key shots in the final  big movo  of tho game midway  down the stretch and rurb their  
minuto.  through the third quartu as  mistakes  against  the  more  
Allan Houston. who lt>d New  Mce;rady scored eight straight  cxpcrienred g)azers.  
York with 23 points. made the  points for  a  59-52 leatl. but  The tr.ams combined for just  
first one  when he sank a  21­ Houston spurred a quick come­ 1:~  turnovers. setting an  NH/\  
footjurnper with 44 seconds left  back with a steal, a blork and n  playoff record.  
for  an  82-78 lead. After  u.  pair  3-pointer as New Yurk  ran  off  Steve Smith scored 22 points  
of foul shots by Antonio Davis.  an  8-0 spurt  to  regain  the  for the Blazers, who hit their  
Johnson made the  next big  momentum.  first 17 free throws. When th(1y  
play.  Toronto led 63-61  entering  finally missed. Brian Grant got  
His 3-point.er slammed off the  the fourth. and each team had  his own rebound with  a chance  
backboard  and  went  right  a run -8-0 by the Knicks; 7-0  for Portland  to  cut its 80-77  
throu,gh the net without touch­ by the Raptors ­ in the first six  delicit  
ing the rim, and Johnson point­ minutes of the final quartN.  But  Grant  committed  an  
ed his first al his right elbow ­ offensive foul with just under  
his "Big L" gesture that has returned to fashion after a one­year absenre. Only this time. the "L" might just as well have stHouston had his highest-swr­ing game of the series. while Johnson added 14 points. Patrick Ewing had 12 and Sprewell 11. Davis led the Haptors with 18 points. The biggest statistical differ­ence was in 3-point shooting, as New York went 9-for-16 and  Timberwolves 94, Trail Blazers 87 Terrell Brandon scored 28 points and shut down Damon Stoudamire as the Minnesota Timberwolves staved off elimi­nation with a victory over the Portland Trail Blazers. Brandon helped hold Stoudamire, his pal rrom their hometown of Portland. to two free throws, 14 points below his playoff average.  live minutes left and the Wolves would never relinquish their lead. Joe Smith made two free throws and Anthony Peeler (13 points) stole the ball and scored on the break f'or an 84-77 lead. J\rvydas Sabonis hit a wide­open 3-pointer to cut it to 84-80 . with 3: 18 left, but the Blazers could get no closer and Brandon hit all six of' his free throws in the final 28 seconds. Sabonis finished with 17  
Toronto was 3-for-21. Carter played only seven min- Kevin Garnett. who has just two triple-doubles in five NBA  points and Hasheed Wallace had 15.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 \1.m. at rhe Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, inclu<ling·all spaces. The Observer reserves rhc right ro edit all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
Summer Server Needed  Study Days & Finals Week  •SENIORS•  nana nana nana nana na na  
LOST & FOUND  Flexible Hours, Great Pay Close to Campus  FOR SALE  ...SPECIAL•••  Going to Duke next year for law/med/grad school?  nana nana nana nana na na  
K's Grill & Pub 277-2527  
LOST: blue warmup jacket left in  1988 Mazda 232·126k, new clutch,  $0.035 self-serve copies  Looking for a roommate?  Krupa, feel better!  
Lafun. Please call Enc at x4606.  parts, excel!. cond. $1000 obo  $0.035 sell-serve copies  E-mail petelle.1@nd.edu  
FOR RENT  call Chiara  $0.035 self-serve copies  Missed ya, Jnell.  
@ 232-6113  From 511 -5/12  Hey 8211 What a weekend! We  
WANTED  HOUSE FOR RENT  THE COPY SHOP  really rock, don't we.  Yo. Stina. keep going. Almost made  
2 ROOMS AVAILABLE  COMPLETE BEDROOM SET!  LaFortune Student Center  it!  
RECSPOATS STUDENT SUPER­ -SUMMER SUBLEASE  Full size bed, 2 end tables, desk w/  We accept Domer Dollars too!  All the  
VISOR  OR  overhead bookshelf, sm. table  Call 631-COPY  Mark...thank you.  
~.  SUPERVISORS WORK AT LEAST 15 HOURS PER WEEK. SPLIT­ -SUMMER+SCHOOLYEAR SHORT WALK TO CAMPUS  $350.00 (obo for ind. items) Call Chiara  FULL COLOR  small things  g'night, world.  
TING THEIR TIME BETWEEN  $250/MO  @ 232-6113  Copying  Voss and Jess ·  
OFFICE HOURS AND ON-SITE  CALL 243-8573  · Printing  Nice mugs.  Let's see if this works.  
SUPERVISION OF RECSPORTS  Vintage Gibson ES-160.  Scanning  
ACTW\TIES. EACH SUPERVISOR  College Pk apt to sublet from 5124  Aaren at  THE COPY SHOP  M'Shan. Congrats on getting  IM me: Fghtnirsh8  
IS ASSIGNED TO VARIOUS  to 8/1 very good condition, low price  4-4235  LaFortune Student Center  Mickey into the 'backer. Everyone  
INTRAMURAL SPORTS  Call 243-0190  Call 631-COPY  should be allowed into the 'backer.  I mean, I know E-dogg will lM me...  
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR AND  GIBSON LP  
IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ADMINIS­ SUMMER INTERNS!  234-6245  THE COPY SHOP  it's my last night ever here.  But I'm looking for some new  
TEAING THESE ACTIVITIES  Apt. for rent in Chicago's Lincoln  Lafortune Student Center  material.  
FROM SIGN-UPS TO COMPLE·  Park area. Avail. July 1-Aug. 31 (w/  1987 Black Saab 900  EXTENDED store hours during  no flying electrical devices.  
TION. WEEKEND WORK IS  opt to extend for 12 months). 2  In great shape. Need to sell!  finals week  Maybe a senior, or a fifth year, or a  
REQUIRED.  bdrm, 1 bath, kitchen w/ new appli­ $2300 -negotiable.  Mon-Fri· 7:30am-Mid  cool.  prospect...haha  
ances, large dining rm, deck, yard.  Call Stacey:  Sat & Sun: 1 0:00am-Mid  
WANTED: Part time sitter for two  On tree lined street 1.5 blocks from  634-2511  come to Shirley's lunch today,  I've already got my townie picked  
kids. Fle~ible hours, good pay,  el and bus. $1155/month. Call  Need help with a project?  Observer clan. There will be carrot  out.  
walking distance from ND campus!!!  Amy, 773-868-6064  MOVING SALE  Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING  cake. And Shirley is your favorite  
Transportation preferred. Starting  www.nd.edu/-abailey/moving_sale  services are available at  mom  Outback guy, I love you  
May 8th or 15th, preferably.  2BR, 2nd llr. apt, 525/mo.  html  THE COPY SHOP  
Possibility of job tor academic year  Along St. Joe River. fnc!Water/Sec.  LaFortune Student Center  b- E•dogg and Min, I love you too.  
1001 Call Carmen at 631-3815 or  Sys./Trash 288-2654  Mazda 66LX '90,  Call 631-COPY  oh what a night (or two) -m  
Nanni.2@nd.edu  air, sunroof, 4-dr, great cond.,  Mindy, I'm sorry about your heinous  
COLLEGE PARK APT. FOR RENT  $3300  FULL COLOR  chicks  life.  
PI\IO INTERNET INTERNSHIP:  JUNE II.ND JULY. Will PI\Y  Copying  
Lead campus promotions for online  WATER BILLI W/D, CLEAN, GIRL  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  Printing  So I hear there's a cnegger kegger  Don't torget...she's SO young. And  
company 1-888-420-9800x319. or  RENTED. 28, 2B. CALL  with orthopedic mattress set and  Scanning  coming up?  she's SO in Seattle.  
adam@moneyformail.com  243-2779  deluxe frame. New, never used, still  THE COPY SHOP  
in plastic.  LaFortune Student Center  a what?  HAHAHA  
WANTED: SUMMER SUBLEASE  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, PRI­ $235  Call 631-COPY  
Grad student needs 1 or 2 bdrm, 1  VATE BATH. PRIVATE KITCHEN,  219-862-2082  a duck  Hey Annie, another classified for  
bath, ale, non-smoke, Dan 4-3144  LAUNDRY, PHONE, 5 MIN. N of  THE COPY SHOP  you!! Hey you .... church group.  
CAMPUS  95 Red VW Cabrio, 5speed, blk  LaFortune Student Center  a what?  
PROFESSOR SEEKS SUMMER  272-0615  leather, 40K mi. excellent condition,  That was too tunny.  
NANNY FOR ENERGETIC 4­ $10,000/Best, must sell, call 243­ High-Speed Copying  a duck  
YEAR-OLD BOY. MUST LIKE  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed­ 8901  Color Copying  Mr. Bill!! Mr. Bill!!  
HORSES AND HORSESHOWS  room. $1000/month, 2) 2-bedroom,  Resumes  a duck  
WEEKENDS. CALL PROF. MILLER AT 631-4133 STfPEND  $500/month. We'll make almost any changes to the houses. Call bill at  PERSONAL  Business Cards Fax Se!Vice  Jess,  Jeffrey, I LOVE YOU!! Haha. You actually get a real classified. You're  
PLUS EXPENSES.  675-0776  Desktop Publishing  We got a date tonight?  a big nerd though. And I don't like  
.....The FINAL issue of THE  & a whole lot more!  you. Haha.  
Need child care in Granger home.  Rental houses for 4-6 studen1s with  OBSERVER is May 3rd:····  she leaves me roses by the stairs  
15 hr/wk. Summer. Call Katie 271­ large rooms.  The date o! 1he commencement  Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery  Noah. thanks for the Abercrombie.  
1935  W&D 291-2209 DAVE  issue is May 19th.  Call 631-COPY  surprises let me know she cares  I'm worth so much more though.  


Monday, May 1, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame falls to Rutgers, ends losing season 5-10 
sai<l. "We played hard the whole each half. The first put the "One of the biggest things was cementing their victory with a Bv SARAH RYKOWSKI game -It would have been nire Knights up 5-1, and the second being able to move [past] the goal in the final seconds to end Sports WrirN to come out with a win." bumped them to a 13-5 advan­goalie." Durkin said. "We were the game at 14-7. 
The Irish finish the season tage in lhe second portion of the shooting straight to her stick. "It could have been anyone's 
HutgPrs Pnsurod Saturday that ·with a ~-10 rerurrl while the game. The shots weren't going in." game," Durkin said. t11f' Notrt• Dame wornen's Scarlet 
"There's always mistakes at After an early goal for the Rutgers' offense was led by lacrosse lP,am P,nded its 2000 Knights both ends," Durkin said. "It Scarlet Knights increased their Ail-American senior Liz season in a loss, complete could have gone either way." lead to 8-3, the Irish defense Chambers, who scored 5 goals in 14-7. But despite Rutgers 14 their season Thanks lo an early goal by held firm for 10 solid minutes, Saturday's game, including two strong of'f'orts, Notre Dame 7 7-8. Irish attacker Kathryn Perrella, scoring two goals in the mean­in the first half. Uw kam walk11d The Irish the Irish jumped to a 1-0 lead in time to chip away at Rutgers' "She was getting in some shots away wishing it matched the the first three minutes of the lead. Riley got another free posi­right around the crease, which could have ended on a positive Scarlet game. Rutgers, not willing to tion shot, and defenseman Tina have a 99 percent chance of note. Knights in <.;onceed the game then and Fedarcyk connected to help the going in," Durkin said of 
"Going out and playing even thPre, responded with their first Irish up to 5-8. Chambers. "She's a very good
all areas of O'Shaughnessythough we had a losing record their game, set of fiye consecutive unan­But a scoring drought led the pl aye~:. with very good place­show our team ·s I df-ldication !,'' cxcopt for swered goals to take the lead by Irish to a point deficit, while the ment. starting goalk1'Pp1'r Tara Durkin two five point scoring runs in fonr with 11 minut"s to play. Scarlet Knights went on thoir The Trish begin mg F.ast play in rc="""'....,""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""-'"""""""""""~"""""""""""""""'====---;i Three minutes later, freshman second scoring drive of the after­the 2001 season, where they will 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 
~ 

,  College is a time for decision  
....  Choose to become a leader  
",  

Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
lti..." 
Cadet Gamache 

Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Contact Captain Klubeck -631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 

11:14 p.m. finding a great job. 
While you're doing your thing, we're doing ours. Matching you to great jobs with hundreds of top employers -24/7. 
Log for  on a  to chan www.jobdirect.com/cash ce to win $500 today!  
JobDirect.comQP Where students and employers click!  

WOMEN'S ROWING 

Three boats place at Georgetown 
schools that sponsor rowing Katherine Burnett and Katie 
Special to The Observer 

including Georgetown, Besson did not advance to the 
Syracuse, Rutgers, Connecticut, finals, as it finished third to 
WASHINGTON, D.C. Miami, West Virginia and Miami and Boston College in its 
The Second Novice Eight boat Villanova. preliminary heat. of Pamela Swan, Andrea Amoni. The First Novice Eight crew of The Second Varsity Eight Katherine McCauldren, Laura Erica Drennan, Beth Fruzynski, crow of Erin Kiernicki, Megan Aull, Ann Gurucharri, Megan Elizabeth Jeub, Julia Kelly, feely, Kerri Murphy, Maureen McPhlHSon and Kathyrn Casey Buckstaff, Becky Luckett, Carr, Elizabeth Nerney, Emily /\nderson placed first Sunday, Ashlee Warren, Ann Marie Deyc, Allison Bartsh. Joslyn while the First Novice Eight and Dillhoff and Cassandra Murphy Moreau and Leah Ashe placed the Varsity Four placed second placed second third in its at the Georgetown Invitational tu Rutgers .in race behind
"Overall, it was a pretty

on the waters of the Potomac the grand final. Syracuse and niver in Washington D.C. while the good showing to put four Miami. The Georgetown Invitational Varsity Four boats in the finals "Overall, it featured all of the Rig East boat of Cassio was a pretty
against established

Markstahler, good showing Kolleen Myers, programs. to put four Kassie Stuart, boats in the Mary Lampe finals against
Martin Stone 

and Sandra established
head coach

Peterson fin­programs, ished second to head coach Syracuse in its final heat. Martin Stone said. "We are an 
In the varsity races, the First up-and-coming program and Varsity Eight boat of Claire are progressing nicely. I was Bula, Michelle Olsgard, proud of our Second Novice Courtney Mercer, Kristen Eight crew as they won by over Vandehey, Katrina Ten Eyck, nine seconds. They pulled really Lauren Lyons, Amy Braun, hard and raced well." 

Anne Hiley scored off a free posi­tion shot to put the Irish back in the game. 
Lael O'Shauglnrnssy tallied on for the Irish, helping l\'otre Dame close in on Rutgers' lead wilh 7 minutest to go. Rutgers slipped two more shots past Durkin to end the half up 7-3. 
noon to lead 13-5. 
Soph9morc attacker Maureen Whitaker brought the oITense to life with a tally at the 1 minute mark. 
Freshman midfielder Danielle Shearer also connected for the Irish with 30 seconds to play, but the Scarlet Knights held on, again face the Rutgers, along with Syracuse, Boston College, Connecticut, Georgetown, and Virginia Tech. 

"We're definitely able to per­form against Big East teams next year," Durkin said. "We didn't have many wins this season, but we built a foundation." 
page 16 The Obseruer . SPORTS Monday, May 1, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL 
Belles manage one win in two weekend doubleheaders 
By KATIE McVOY 
Assistant Sporrs Ediror 
The Soflbelles had a less than satisfying home stand this wcnkPnd, finishing 3-1 at the Sl\1C Classic. 
Saint Mary's faced oIT against Alma College on Friday. dropping both games by large nm margins. The Belles lost the first game 11-2, then the second 11-3. Game 1 
Sophomore Kristin Martin 
Alma College 11

pitched the first game of the dou­blP header, and junior Anne Saint Mary's 2 Senger pitched the second game. 
Game 2

Marlin came into to relieve Senger near the nnd of thr sec­Alma College 11 ond game. 
Saint Mary's 3

"We weren't hitting very well," senior Elise Ilall said. "But the Game 3 loss was really due to the fact Wisconsin-Oshkosh 8 
that we wern playing against the 
Saint Mary's 3

No. 1 team in the conference. It really wasn't anything Wf1 did." Game4 Alma came into this weekend's 
St. Mary's 9

tournament with a 13-1 l\1IAA league record and a ~4-6 overall Wisconsin-Oshkosh 3 record, leading the MV\A. 
The Belles faired slightly better in the fair weather on Sunday, facing University of Wisconsin-Oskosh Saint Mary's looked weak in the first game, dropping it 8-3, despite a good pitching effort by Martin. 
Not wanting to leave the weekend on a bad note, however, they came back to win the second game of the double header 9-3. 
"Our bats really came alive [Sunday] during the sec­ond game," Hall said. "We looked a lot betJ.er." 
Rachel Deer and Melissa Hayes both hit well for the Belles. Hayes went 6-7 on the weekend, boosting Saint Mary's offense. 
Sunday marked the last home game for the senior Belles on the softball team. "It was a very sentimental day for the seniors," Hall said. "And it was good to end on a win." 
Saint Mary's plays its last regular season game on Tuesday at Grand Valley State University at 4:00. The Belles will not attend the MIAA league championships because they did not finish as one of the top four teams in the league. 

Please, come back me. 



Visi-t Jesus 1n­Euchar·is-tic Adora-tion. 
Mo·nd·ay 11 :30 p.m. to Tues.day 1.0-:·00pm in Fisher Hall 
Friday -1:.2:00.pm-S:OOpan, Lady Chapel-, Basilica 
Eucharistic Ado•rat±.on J.s sponsored by Campus M±nistry. !~~~~?.}:.~~~i}_~~-~ ~~ nd ~ ea\:: for more information or to sign up for a pe:r:manent hal.f-haur or. hou.:c. .si.ot. 
Monday. May 1, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
..... 

Ths is yo~r'fift chance. THERE iifjf•~-sPo~ OPEN!!! There will be a final informational 
meeting Monday, May 1 at 5 PM in the Montgomery Room of Lafortune. Ifyou are 6'2" 
or taller, THERE IS NO REASON NOT TO TRYOUT!!! This year is the biggest opportunity to make the Guard. 6 out of 10 members are gradu ating. Tryouts are a blast and start the week befor class begins. Come to the meeting and find out more about being part ofthis great tradition. If yo miss the meeting or have any questions, e-mail; brush@nd.edu. 

BLUE AND GOLD G 
O
THE 

page 18 BSERVER Monday, May l, 2000 
spring sitti.ng down with Coach football in his hands more." [offensive coordinator Kevin) One area where the Irish
Football 
Rogers, watching film. I think coaching staff decided not to continued from page 24 the chemistry is there this concentrate on was the run­
year." ning game. The lrish's top Saturday's game used a com­"The only concern we had three tailbacks, Tony Fisher, plicated scoring system that with Arnaz was that he seemed Julius Jones and Terrance awarded points for various to be a little bit laid-back when Howard, had a combined 12 offensive and defensive situa­Jarious [Jackson) was here," carries for 59 yards. tions. The game also featured Davie added. Before the the offense against the defense, "Would he "There's always a game the three instead of the normal Blue vPr­step up and running backs ­
temptation when you
sus Gold format. Lake control? Fisher, Jones and 
Add in the fact that the quar­Would he get out there in .front of Howard terbacks were not allowed to have the con­fans to try to do too flipped a coin to get hit, the game plan was a fidence? I determine who
many things ... You
fraction of the lrish's entire think since would start.
' 
play book and the ability to Jarious has would love to do more Fisher won and
i 
I ,, 
evaluate the team's outlook for left he's things scheme-wise, thus began the next year is minimal. shown that game.
maybe give Arnaz
"There's always a temptation confidence. "We have three when you get out there in front Guvs take on Battle a chance to beat tailbacks right of fans to try to do too many different per­you with his legs either now that are things," head coach Bob Davie son al it i es equal in my opin­
by running the option 
said after the defense beat the when it's ion," Davie said. offense 39-31. g But I fought their turn -or something else." "It looks like now that temptation today. You So much of we have four run­would love to do more things playing that ning backs but
Bob Davie
scheme-wise, maybe give position is those three
head coach
Arnaz Battle a chance to beat when some­[fisher. Jones you with his legs either by run­thing bad and Howard] are ning the option or something happens, slill ahead of else." when that offense starts to Chris Yura." 
"I don't know how much we struggle will he be able to jump After David Miller connected can determine from the out­in there and get that offense on a 26-yard attempt, the come of the game, if anything. back on track?" Davie added. offense led 6-0. But the defense But it was a good day." "All of us will have to wait reeled off 24 straight points, 
The day began with a field and see. But from a talent including a 39-yard intercep­goal kicking contest pitting standpoint he's line." tion return for a touchdown by David Miller. Nick Setta and The other quarterback, Anthonv Denman. The senior Matt McNew against each Godsey, also threw 23 passes. linebacker earned the defen­other. Each kicker attempted completing 12 for 148 yards. sive MVP honors for his play. field goals from 32. 37. 42 and Godsey showed what the "I was a little concerned 45 yards out. Both Miller and coaches have been saying all early," Davie said, rellecting on McNew were perfect on their spring: he's a legitimate back­the 24 points by the defense. attempts, while Setta missed up quarterback. "The way things go around from wide left on the 37 and Joey Getherall was on the here I didn't want tn explain all 45-yard attempts. The trio also receiving end of six passes summer at all these Notre had a chance to kickoff. while tight ends Jabari Dame clubs why the final score 
Miller and McNew kicked to Holloway and walk-on Joe of the spring game was 98-62 the 15-yard line but Setta Recendez caught four balls or something like that." again struggled, kicking it out apiece. Luckily for Davie, the offense 
started tn settle down and con­trol the ball. Though they failed to score a touchdown, the Irish offense cut the deficit to 29-24 in the third quarter. 
As the players concentrate 

Blue and Gold Game Scoring System 
Offense 

6 for a TD 3 for a field goal 2 for a two-point 1 for each first down 1 for each play over 20 yards 1 for each PAT 
Defense 

12 for interception for a TD 5 for interception 5 for recovered fumble 3 for a field goal block 3 for stopping a fourth and one behind the 50 2 for stopping a fourth and one inside the 50 2 for stopping a two-point play 2 for a sack 1 for forcing a punt 1 for tackle behind line of scrimmage 1 for blocking a PAT 
on studying for finals and get­ting ready for the summer, thn memories of last season still remain. And those memories won't go away until the Irish win some games. 

"We've been through so much," Battle said. "But we have the athletes, we have tlw ability. Now it's having that team chemistry and doing what's right." 
of bounds. Setta and Joey Hildbold also competed in a punting contest with each get­ting two chanres. There was no real winner, as both pun­ters averaging 35.5 yards per punt. 
Hattie started at quarterback for the Irish but alternated with Gary Godsey. With the Irish running no option attack or quarterback draws on Saturdav. Battle had the opportu~ity to work on his passing game, a concern head­ing into the fall. For the game. Battle completed 10 of 23 pass­es for 117 yards. 
"l have a lot more confidence with the offense now," Battle said. "I learned so much this 
Holloway, in particular, stood out on the Irish offense. The senior-to-be from Riverdale, Ga., was Battle's favorite early target, picking up 23 and 19 yards on two catches on the first drive of the game. For his efforts, members of the media named Holloway offensive game MVP. 
"We've got a bunch of' Notre Dame people happy out there now," Davie said of his plan to throw to the tight end. "There's no question Jabari's a talent. Here's a player that has a legitimate chance to be a first round choice [in next year's NFL draftl. We've really worked hard this off-season to try to find a way to get tho 

Leaders' Statistics Blue and Gold Game 

Rushing Julius Jones  No. Yds. Avg. 4 17 4.3  
Tony Fisher  3  15  5.0  
Chris Yura  6  11  1.8  
Tenence Howard  3  9  3.0  
Passing  Att/Cmp/Int.  Yds.  
h:i.11az Battle  17-8-0  87  
Gary Godsey  8-5-1  48  
Receiving Jabari Holloway  No. Yds. 4 58  
Joey Getherall  4  30  
Jay Johnson  1  27  
Mike McNair  1  7  


BLUE AND GOLD G 
Monday, May I , 2000 
page 19 
Less prominent players impress Davie in scrimmage 
By KERRY SMITH Spore, Editor 
With a limited offense, a coaching staff using only a por­tion ii' its playbook and eight of ,wxt year's probable sturLcrs on tlw sidnlinc, Saturday's Hluc­Cold scrimmagn was not indica­tivl' ol' things to conrn in the 2000 season. 
.-\dcl iu a rwwly-formatted srnring systt\lll that allowed the dPl'PnsP to scort! points for <'er­tuin plays and lhe most any fan fo11ld garner from Saturday's Blu,'-Gold scrimmage was a gliu1psl' at sourn of the talent the Irish squad has stored in its walk-on and reserve players, rathnr than a pr11vi1iw ol' the rnmplPtn Irish arsm1al slfltcd tu takP thP !i(~ld wlwn it counts in thn !'all. 
Onn of Saturday's biggest sur­prisPs was iwnior Matl McNew's pnrformance at kicker. A walk­on from Arlington. Tex. who led tlw Irish nwn's soccer team for !'our y1\,HS as a dP-fcntlcr. Mcl\Jni~ provPd lit> has what it taktis to kick for the Irish. 
An imprnssive kicker during his high school career, McNew <'.hos!\ sorc(1r over football in his first four yPars at Notre Dame, was porfoel on Sunday, nailing 5-5 field goals. 
"In high school, Matt kickfid a 52-yard field goal in the state tournament at Texas Stadium," said Irish hefld coach Bob Davie. "He came here to play soccer, but rnal!y wanted to play foot­ball. Now he's exhausted his four years and wants to try tu give football a shot." 
With Davie trying Lo come up with a better kicking gamr. than he has produced in the past, that shot seems to be as good as the four shots McN1~w put through the uprights in the pre­scrimmage field goal contest, McNew tierl fellow kick<'r David Miller by connecting un 32-yard, :H-yard, 42-yard, and 45-yard attempts. 
McNcw later hit a 23-yard !fold goal under tighter defen­sive pressure in the second quarter. 
Davie doesn't env1s1on McNew's impact to be on tbe scoring end, however. Ile plans to use McNew·s talent on kick­offs. 
"He has been really impres­sive with the kickoffs, and if we had to play tomorrow, he would have a really good chance at being our starting kickoff man," Davie said. "lie has a chance to be back in tlrn fall with a schol­arship." 
McNew showed his ability in the pre-scrimmage kickoff con­test, when he and Miller again tind with kicks to the 15-yard line. 
Sophornorn Chris Yura may 
have earned himself some play­ing time with a solid perfor­mance as well. The 5-foot-11, 2 l 1-pound fullback/tailback from Morgantown, W. Va., led the Irish in rushing yards. 
"Chris Yura helped himself today," said Davie. "You can see why when hr. was in Morgantown High school he gained all those yards. He's a talenterl football player and betwnon fullback and tailback we just might have tu find a spot for him." 
Backup quarterback Gary Godsey found a good runner in Yura, who topped the Irish ros­ter with 11 carries for 46 yards. 
Two junior walk-ons also made their mark in Sunday's drills. 
For the second-consecutive Lime in his college career, 5­foot-5, 170-pound tailback Timmy O'Neill led his team in rushing average in the Blue­Gold scrimmage. O'Neill carried the ball three times for 22 yards, averaging 7.3 yards a carry. Last year, O'Neill averaged 5.7 yards a carry in the scrimmage. 
Fellow walk-on Matt Sarb, 5­foot-11, 201-pound strong safety scored five points for the defense when he recovered a fumble in the fourth quarter when senior tight end Joe Recendez dropped the ball after catching a pass from Godsey at the 44-yard line. 



Coaches avoid llledia with excuses, unwarranted pride 
I I<' waikl'd from tlw Irish lock­hour rehashing tlrn news of the I questioned Gary Godsey about the 2000 Irish team is "excel­for Ara Parseghian's Nieman Pr room, through a door kading day (or lack of it) one at a time to what the offense was working on lent" just because Davie said so Pick Disease Foundation, met to lht' adjacent ml'dia room, a dozen di[forent people. in practice, he said he wasn't would be foolish. If the Irish with Davie. d<•rwhing a boWn of water in his All we wanted to know was allowed to share that informa­were winr,ing the national cham­"lie was telling a story of how right hand. IIP made his way up simple things, like how the play­tion. This was after the second pionship, or even contending for two years ago they were 4-12," lo tlw front ers were performing, or an practice of the spring, before the it, the optimism, the "positive" Davie said of the meeting with of'thn injury update. It wasn't like Bob Irish even wore pads. outlook on the team's future Vermeil. "Everybody said he was room, his Woodward and Carl Bernstein of Or maybe the media excuse would get the publicity. But now. too old and the game was behind lwad the Washington Post, who broke explains why Davie was upset with a relatively inexperienced him. It's funny how you talk angli•d tlw story on Watergate. asking that Clifford Jefferson told me team, an unproven coach and a about passion and coaches towards tlw Prcsidrmt Nixon about lhn sran­the secondary brutal sched-showing passion. He said two lloor. dal. would play more years ago he showed all that
"To write that the outlook ule, it's dilli­

\\'lwn lw A year ago, thern were two man coverage cult to find passion and people thought he
for the 2000 Irish team is

advam·pd to scrimmages prior to the Blue­this fall. Bet much on the had lost his mind because they tlw l'ront, Gold game open to the media. Purdue quarter­'excellent·just because field opti­were lo~ing and he should get lw pla!'.Cid But al't11r a :i-7 season, the lirst back Drew mism. out of' the game. All of a sudden,
Davie said so would be 

tlw bottk NCAA violation in school history Brees is having This isn't to he's that same guy who showed
foolish. Ifthe Irish were

Oil tile and a few disciplinary suspen­trouble sleeping say that Notre the passion now and they ground and sions, a tight-lipped Davie after hearing winning the national Dame football !reporters] said they won !the stood in refused to open up any practices, that news. is terrible. Far Super Bowl] because of his pas­
championship, or even 

f'ront of' a save for two when the Irish host­The coach­from it. There sion."
contending for it, the

podium. In ed a high school coaching clinic. media relation­are plenty of' "It's amazing what winning t'ull vi<'w And when he did open prac­ship has always optimism, the 'positive' things to take does," Davin added. "IVcrnrnill 
W<'n' about. :iO p1•oplP -sports tice, the Irish ran about 10 per­been strange. pride in: the shared that with the team. and I
outlook on the team's 

information assistants. some cent of their offensive package, Coaches would commitment thought it was a good message."
future would get 

1·oadws and various others, Even on Saturday, according to love for media of the coach­It was a great message. But inrluding nwml.Jnrs of tlw mmlia. Arnaz Baltlc, the Irish playbook mcm bers to be the publicity." es, the off­has anyone ever criticized 
Mo11wnts l'Hrlier. ttw delense consistnd of eight insidP runs, like Aristotle's field contribu­Davie's passion? If you've ever had b<'alcn tlrn olfonse 39-:-n in five drop-back passes and six friends of utility, tions of I.he seen Davie following a game or llHi annual Bltw-(;olcl scrim­play-action passes. No option. no where the object of the relation­players to the local community, especially the Sunday alter a inagP. Now it was timt' !'or !mad quarterback draws, no clue on ship is the value obtainable from the high graduation rate, These loss, it's clear that passion is not warh Bob Davi11 to address the how Battle or the Irish will per­the friend. In other words, when are things that matter a Jot more an issuo. I hi works every day, all nwdia form in the fall. the tc-•am wins, thi> mi>dia is wel­in tlrn long run than whether or year long, trying to turn this pro­
Tlw dn~adt>d nwdiu. Maybe Davie has exhaustPd a.II come. !Jut when they lose or not the Irish beat USC in 2001. gram around. 
It was an intl'r(•sting spring the other excuses -the lack of some sr.anctal arises, stay away, But when a player sells his But he'll always be judged by rnwring tlw Irish l'ootball team talent. the injuries, tho dillicull let them share their sorrows complimentary tickets or anotl1-victories, Winning does change On morn than mw occasion, sdmdule. Davie has become like amongst teammates and coach­er gets suspended for nunwrous everything. l>uvif' chose not to talk to the a gulfPr who shoots fl!l 82. then es. violations of parietals am we If the Irish start next year 4-0 media al'tcr practice. says tlw.t if he hadn't missed four Too bad it doesn't work that supposed to not print that and contend for a national 
N<•VPr mind that before the three-foot putts and had scornd way. The goal of journalism is to because he's a fellow student? or championship the same media ~pring bngan, roportnrs, Notre a birdili on a hole instead of a be accurate, to portray intelli­course not. that has criticized tlrn Irish will Danw's sports information dime­triple bogey, he would have bro­gent news judgement. I'm sure Davie's feelings about the write "positive" articles. tors and Duviii had decided al'ter ken 75. The Pxcuses have there arc students on this cam­media were never more appar­And the same Davie will each practice that Davie would become legendary. pus who believe The Observer ent than on April 6, after the address the media next spring, talk to the mndia in a group in Maybe now he want..c; the pub­should stick up for our fellow fourth practice. When reporters after every practice, in front of front of' thn gates facing . lic to believe the media leflked student athletes, that we should had finished asking questions, Notre Dame Stadium. Touchdown Jesus, 011 his wav information to opposing teams' avoid criticizing the losing Davie shared a story. Earlier The views expressed in this into the locker room. This was waching staffs, leading to the teams. that afternoon, Dick Vermeil, the column are those of the author done to please Davie, so he demise of the 199<flrish. But that would be na'ive. retired St. Louis Rams coach and not necessarily thoes of The wouldn't have to spend a half-Maybe that explains why when To write that the outlook for who was in town as a speaker Observer. 
; . ..J, 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, May 1, 2000 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Drake Relays, Purdue Invite prepare runners for Big East 
VolkmP.r pole vaulting her PR of 11-5 By BRIAN BURKE 1/4, she also triple jumpt:'d 38-1 1/2. Sports Writer One group that did struggle was the 
men's 4x100 meter relay squad of Chris 
With the Big East Championships one Cochran, Travis Davey, Tom Gilbert. week away. the Notre Dame men·s and and Marshaun West. They finished women's track and field t{~ams took a third in thAir heat running their race in small group to Des Moines, IA for one 41.06 seconds. final tunP-up at thi> prestigious Drake "Our Pxchanges didn't go well," said Belays. v\'hilc the Irish faced some stiff Davey. "We ran well, but the passes competition, several athletes turned in hurt us." perf'orrnances that can provicfo enco11r­"The 4x100's f~xchangPs WPn> a bit age me11t going into the conference suspect," Piane said. meet. While Piane thought the team overall 
"Collectively we ran did well, he also pretty well. Individual!.', "Collectively we ran realized many of the we all might have been top athletes wern
pretty well. Individually
able to run better but using this week to there were no bad we all might have been rest for the Big East races," sophomore Luk<' able to run better but Championships. Watson said. "We were 
there were no bad races." "!The week offl is 
pleased with the perfor­def'initely going to mance. It was just a big help. Guys like Ryan race and a fast race. Luke Watson Shay who are run­Stanford was in our ning in a 10.000, the
sophomore 

race and a bunch of last thing they need-other tough teams." ed would have bonn 
Senior Tim Kober's NCAA qualifying a hard mile or 5,000 this week." 800 meter time of one minute. 48 sec­In addition to the group tra,nling to onds was the highlight of the Drake Drake, the Irish also sent a team to meet for Notre Dame. Along with West Lafayette for the Purdull Kober, another solid race came from Invitational. thP men's 4x1600 meter relav team of In that meet a pair of wornnn's dis­Watson. Pat Comrnv, Sean Zanderson, tance runner took the top spot in their and .John Dudley vvhich placed eighth respective races. Chrissy Ktwnstnr fin­with a time o[ 16:45.17. ished first in the 3,000 motors with a 
"The 4x 1600 meter relay, the time tinw ol' 10:16.67, while J\nnP McGrath they ran was three seconds faster than ran the 10,000 meters in 38:28.79. Ana the· winner from last year. There was Morales finished second in the 800 grnat competition in that race," Piane meters with a limP ol' 2:13.68, and said. Kymia Love placed third in the 400 
Thompson's discus throw of 175 feet meters, clocking in at 57.22. four inches was good for 10th at Drake. For the men, Terry Wray ran a good He also threw the hammer 155 feet, 200 meter race, linishing second with a nine inches. time of 22.42. Mike Gricwe and Ryan 
Meanwhile Engelhardt's high jump of Maxwell finished first and second in the 5-8 3/4 gave her the highest finish for 5,000 with times of times of 14:54.48 Tim Kober, shown here in an early spring meet, qualified for NCAA national champi­the women, a tie for fourth. Besides and 15:00.17 respectivnly. onships with a time of one minute, 48 seconds in the 800 meter race this weekend. 

"G-w~ ~~ #l, IAd ~~ Ht ~ G~-'JJ-. H~ lDN~ ~~~,t,,i." 
P~106:1 

Campus-wide Prayer Vigil of Gratitude 
Join us for 23 hours ofprayer in Eucharistic Adoration 
to express our thankfulness for God's goodness in this jubilee Year. Eucharistic Adoration is an especially intimate form ofprayer in which the Blessed Sacrament is exposedfor all to look upon as they pray and meditate. 
Tuesdar, May 2nd, 2000 Midnight to 11 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel Join us for 30-minute btochs beginning at Midnight 

0MPU5 
• 

MINISTRY
For more info: Erin at Rockenhaus.J@nd.edu or4-1497 or Frank Santoni at 1-3250 


Monday, May I, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
third baseman Andrew 
Bushev, who each had three
Baseball 
hits. . 

With the Irish up 2-1 in the 
lop of the eighth inning. Cavey anothP-r gPm ill LhP oponr-r. In loaded the basns with one out collncling his ninth consecutive before Mainicri brought in win in tht~ 8-3 Irish victory, Corhin to closfl the game. After IIPilman l'('rnrclcd nirrn strikP­giving up a game-tying outs in sown innings for his groumlout, Corbin allowed a confpri•r11•p-lf1ading S('V('nth single by Eric Potts which put comµlnll' ganw. the He<l Storm up :1-2. 
"It was anollwr typical pnr­In the bottom of the eighth. f'ormancn for thn Irish (I 1• i I Ill i.l I) , " "/Sunday 'sl game was a regained the said MainiPri. lea·d on a l1rnd­
continued from page 24 
lremenduu.s victory. 

l\'IPyPr l<'d off triple by 
the o!Tnnse in There were about 1500 !\foyer, fol­!hf' opf'nPr. people there today-just lowPd by a cnli1·cting a double by cen­
hearing the crowd was

triple and two ter -l'i elder douhlns. "This nice. Stcv1i Stanley wcPkPrHI was and a single by gn~a,. I was Bushny.
Paul Mainieri 

rnally S<'t•ing Corbin, how­
head coach

tlw ball woll," nver. could not said a modt)sl hold thP 4-3 Ml'ym. lead in the bottom of the ninth, 
In tlw SP<:tmd !{anw, s1inior as the previously unbeaten rightha11d1•r Scott CavPy closer gavn up three runs, The pitchPd w1dl. hut endnd uri Irish were not able to muster a with a no-(lncision as tlw lfod comeback in t.lic bottom frame, Storm rallil'd lahi Lo win thP and fnll by the; final or 6-4. ganw <>-4. "That gan111 was a heart­
.lunior shortstop A!Pc PorzPI hreakc>r." said Mainieri, "It luad off tlw game ,vilh u home was seemingly in our hand. run, his l'ou rt.Ii of' tlrn spason. then wu lost it." Junior All-American Aaron Heilman pitched the third game in the Notre Dame vs. St. John's Also c1111lrihu1ing in ganw one Tlw frish host Northwestern series, taking his ninth consecutive victory with nine strikeouts in seven innings. Leading the wcrt• F1•lkPr a1H.l sophomore at (>:115 p,rn. on Tuesday. conference in number of complete games, Heilman pitched his seventh on Saturday. 

•

anov1c
• 

University of Notre Dame
nst1tute 
for European Studies 
presents 

Tzvetan Todorov 
''The Intellectual Origins of Totalitarianism'' 
Monday, May 1st 7:30pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 

''History, Morals, and Philosophy'' 
A panel discussion with Robert Pippin, Chair of the Committee on Social Thought and professor of philosophy, University of Chicago and Charles Larmore, professor of political science, University of Chicago. With the support from the Center for 
Ethics and Culture. 
Tuesday, May 2nd 4:15pm Hesburgh Library Lounge 
An internationally renowned writer and director of research at the National Center for Scientific Research in Paris, Professor Todorov has published numerous books in literary studies, intellectual studies and cultural analysis. Among them: Facing the Extreme: Moral Life in the Concentration Camps, Qn Human Diversity, A French Tragedy, The Morals of History and The Conquest of America. 
--W-­
Saint MarY-'s College 
O
NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
ENO OF THE 
YEAR MASS! 
Sunday, May 7, 2000 '):00 PM Church orOur Lady orLoretto 
There will be NO masses in the residence halls May 7th. 

I""""-------------~----------­
Monday, May I, 2000
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
I 
MEN'S GOLF 

Kent takes fifth, Irish finish third in Big East tourney 
tournament's first dav, the Irish By KEVIN BERCHOU fared much better in ·the second Spom \'<:'ritcr round, matching the Pirates of 
Seton Hall shot for shot with a 
It was a tale of two seasons for solid 290. 

Notre Dame men's golf team. "Everyone tried really hard 
After a sterling autumn that saw out there," Kent said. "We put a 
them surge into the nation's top lot of hard work and practice 
25. the Irish experienced a sig­into this, we just lost our fo1.:us nificant fall in confidence in the and didn't execute well." early spring and could never "I was disappointed with the recapture their early season team's effort as a whole," 
success. Thomas said. "I really expected 
After averaging a paltry 292 much more." strokes per round in the fall, the The Ione bright spot for Urn Irish stumbled in spring play Irish was Kent, who shot a amt saw their aggregate stroke remarkable final round 68 that total soar to 303 strokes per included five birdies. Kent's 
round. SCOr<! of 145 placed him
"We just "We just struggled in the 

struggled in the fil'th in a field
spring. We just [seemed/

spring," junior of 45 and star Al8x Kent to lose confidence." earned him a admitted. "We spot on the Big 
just [s8emed] to East All­
Alex Kent

lose confi­Con fe re n ce 
junior

dence." team. 
Coach George "Kent played Thomas agreed. "We seemed to admirably," Coach Thomas said. lose our momentum somewhere 'Tm really excited about his along the line," he said. development in the future." 
Nowhere was that lost Kent was also happy with his momentum more apparent than play, particularly pleased with at the Big East Championships, th.e !'act that he was able to held on campus at the new bounce ba1.:k from an opening­Warren Golf Course this past round 77. weekend. Entering tournament "My putting was awful on the play as one of the favorites, the first day. I couldn't make· any­Irish disappointed. After finish­thing, and my confidence spi­ing the first day in fourth place, raled downward from there," he the team failed to overcome a admitted. "On the second day, I 14-stroke deficit to eventual could have made a few more champion Seton Hall. Rutgers putts but I was happy about the was also able to sneak ahead of way I played." Notre Dame, leaving the Irish Kent finished four strokes 
. with an uninspired third place behind Seton Hall junior Eugeml 
... 
finish. Smith, who tied a tournament "We were very mediocre," record with a 141. 
Thomas said. "I think the excite­Sunday also marked a sad 8nd ment of having the inaugural for the careers of two players home tournament put some who have been cornerstones of added pressure on the kids and the Irish program. Seniors Todd they didn't respond very well." Vernon and Jeff Connell sunk After a total of 304 on the their final collegiate putts, and 
_ Chinese ~ American h~ CR£AT Restaurant and
,uALL Cocktail Lounge 
JJ' ft Authentic Szechuan, Manderin & Hunan Cuisine 

Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
Lunches starting at__ $4.25 

Dinners starting at __ $5.95 \'utL·d n~~t Onl'nt.il llL·~taurant
Banquet rooms availahle fnr ur to 2••. 1 in i\tid1i.111.1 In 
220 Dixie Way 5., South Bend :\lichimw No1t· 

Why lug your 
campus? 

B~'fKESPWS 
Call 277-5555 for free pick up at your roon1 -on or off-ca1npus. Boxes Plus •the lower p1iced sliippe1·• 5622 Grape Road -Wilshire Plaza 
Bring your belongings and this ad to Boxes Plus and receive a 10% discount. 
linished with two-day totals or route to a final round 66 that a tough second half of the sea­149 and 154 respectively. broke the Big East champi­son for thn Notrn Dame golf Other action of note Rutgers onship record by thren shots and team. A deep talr.nt pool ha-, the 
sophomore Daniel Lee sunk established a Warren Gold Irish hoping to dive into nnxt three bunker shots and carded Course record. year's with hopes of rnnewed seven birdies on the linal day en All in all, it was a tough end to success. 

· Every course we serve at Papa Vinos is a celebration ofgreat taste! 
Generous portions, all at affordable prices. Here's just a sampling: 
Bruschetta Sizzlelini'" Fried Calamari Lasagna Spinach Artichoke Dip Salmone al/a Griglia Fepperoni Bread Spaghetti Calabrese And more... Daily Features 
PIZZAS &CALZONES 201 DESSERTS 401 
Margherita Caramel ~can Cheesecake Primavera Spumoni Torte Quattro Formaggio Apple Crisp Wild Mushrooms Cannoli Special Daily Lunch Calzone;; Tiramisu 
Sq if you're looking for great food with an Italian flair, come to Pdpa Vinos. 
A celebration of great taste. 
Mishawaka • 5110 Edison lakes Parkway • 219.271.1692 
Great rates, great service -if only I could still be a member of the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union after graduation • .. 

Duhhh. But of course you canl And their web page, ndfcu.org, makes it super eas7 with 24 hour free home banking. Plus no matter where you are, checking is always free! 
219-239-66 l l 800-522-66 l l 114..NOTREDAME 


• FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit 
1il 
a.I INDEPENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 



Monday, May ! , 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, MAY 1, 2000 

ACROSS 35 Rooms with 63 Bring to 212° 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON nns will be your downfall. 000 DAY: Glenn Ford, Rita Coolidge, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Love
Worker stairs leading to 64 Charlie Chan 
Walter Suss.kind, Judy Collins, Jack is likely, and you're ready to get
protection org. them portrayer 
Paar, Tun McGraw serious. Talk about future plans and 5 Nuclear weapon 37 "Ski,p to My Warner Happy Birthday: Set your goals let rour family know just how you 10 Cry from a crib 65 Ooze and make your move. There isn't fee . You can expect to face some 
39 China's Chou 67 "Just this anything that you can't handle this opposition. 000
14 Smart-_ 
En-_ year if you put your mind to it. Chal­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Things
" 

15 Rome's river 
lenges have always made you will be more hectic than you like at
40 Flowers given to 68 Recoil in pain

16 Eclipse, maybe, stronger in the past. Welcome what­work today. Hang in there; you will
the Preakness

to the ancients 69 Close tightly ever cards you are dealt and be shine if you can hold it all together.
Stakes winner 

70 Shade of red relentless in turning any negatives Be sure to rejuvenate in the evening. 
17 Shuttle launch 
44 Place with into a positive. Push hard and you 000
sound 71 In the buff
microscopes will have no regrets. Your numbers: SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be
18 Verdi work 72 Grand Ole 
3, 7, 12, 22, 34, 41 prepared for an active but rewarding
45 14, in old Rome

19 The African ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your day. Get involved in activities that
46 Nail polish 

Queen, e.g. DOWN gut feelings will lead you into pros­will be fun for the whole family. 47 Liability's perous financial ventures. You will Camping, swimming and picnics
20 1967 Van 1 Dinghy propeller 
opposite have innovative ideas that you can should all be considered. 000
Morrison hit 
2 One whose develop easily. Partnerships will be SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
23 Lose, as skin 50 Unused 
business isn't in your bestinterests. 000 21): Get busy. It's time to work on 24 "Erie Canal'' 52 Swap picking up? TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you. Lose weight, get fit and make mule 53 Jabber 3 Listen to Don't let others take advantage of positive changes. Don't be upset by you today. Losses are likely if you criticism; do something about it.
25 •-la vista!" 55 Reagan's first 4 Word puzzle 
trust others with your possessions or Don't let anyone make you insecure.
28 The U.S.A.'s Secretary of 
5 United (with) if you lend friends money. Offer 0000
"uncle" State 
6 Humans, e.g. advice and mental support instead. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22•Jan. 19): 31 City west of 57 1970 hit by 000 Take heed of the advice given by
7 Listen to

Montgomery Sugarloaf GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You friends, but make up your own mind
8 A _ pittance 

have the discipline to pick up knowl­when it comes down to it. You may 9 Slender nails edge or skills that will help you get want to spend some time re-evaluat­10 Ceiling-hung art 
ahead in your chosen field. Don't ing your motives. 00 neglect your partner in the process AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
11 Love, Spanish-Puzzle by Gregory E. Paul 
or you'll have problems at home. You'll get a pat on the back for your
style 

34 Bridal path 56 Threw in 61 Not shallow 0000 insight into future trends. The same 12 Lunch or dinner CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your people who thought you were pre­
36 Reason for an 
57 Auctioneer's last 

62 Four seasons interest in changing your profession­mature will eat their words. It's your 
13 Aardvark's tidbit X rating 
word 
al direction may lead you back to day to prosper. 0000

21 Hit with a bang 38 Put to work 
58 Paddy crop 63 Go up and school. Your creative ability must be PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 22 Car fill-up 41 Yang's down in the developed and incorporated into and your mate will have problems if
59 Director Kazan 

25 "Usted _ counterpart water your goals. 00 you haven't been completely honest espaiiol?" 42 Before 60 U.S. soldier in LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't take with one another. Make changes or 
W.W.11 66 Thickness on financial burdens that will put the situation will get worse. Back up
26 Map site 43 _ Sea, in the 
you in a tight spot. You need to cut and see if you can salvage this union. 
27 Knife wounds North Atlantic 
back, not incur more debts. Your 000 29 Tylenol 48 Hole for a lace Answers to any three clues in this puzzle generosity with family and friends competitor 49 Menlo Park are available by touch-tone phone: 
Birthday Baby: You have a headstrong attitude and willpower that will 
30 Up-to-date monogram 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
help you get your way no matter what obstacles you face. You are strong,
32 lncan transport 51 From what Annual subscriptions are available for the stable and stubborn. 33 Like a horse or place? best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, lion 54 On the map years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) Cl 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at 


~el'i 
c .re 1.rs~
o./Ji_ ce. l <a
'll.Je :fve 'O ~ 
(7) Zlio ci lj, cl.f.ls 
v'J.so 'rqtj~ ee /}cl~ ep· 

...
:((0~ '1.f.1/ 
OH, SHooT. WE'RE oUT of EG~S. 
I 
RoGER, WOULD 'YOU BE A DEAR AND RUN To THE STORE FoR SoME EG~S? 
I ­
J: SURE. I'LL 

.020006111 ~lldftitst bylln.1versal Pr~Sy111ticaW 
'l'OU'VE GooT 'YOU!! C~EDtT CA.RDS, RIGHT, 
DA.!>?'-. 
HOO 
'YEAH, '--­
There's just no pleasing some people. 

beam.1 @nd.edu 
. ­

-·-----------------------------,
·~ ---· 

Nationals-bound 
At the Drake Relays this weekend, senior Tim Kober ran an NCAA qualifying time in the Boo-meter race.

PORTS 
page 20 

page 24 
Monday, May 1, 2000 

FOOTBALL 

Team unity pushes Irish through Blue and Gold game 
By TIM CASEY 
Assiscant Sports Editor 
Fresh off a 5-7 campaign wl1ich included a few embar­rassing off the field incidents, the Notre Dame coaches and players came togethflr this off­season and formed a leader­ship committee. 
This leadership committee included approx­imately 15 play­
Gold 39 
Prs who were 
Blue 31
responsible for creating team unity and more open commu­nication among coaches and players. 
"!L's not to separate us from the rest of the team." said Arnaz RattlP, a committN' member. "It just gives the coaches a chance to hear what the players feel and know what's going on." 
"There were some incidents that could have been prevent­ed last year," Battle said. "We've tried to not have that distract us going into the sea­s011. We've got to look out for each other. Every little thing you do goes to the media and gets out in the public so we try to keep things clean. do what's right and get rid of the dis­tractions." 
On Saturday. 14,135 fans had a chance to see the 2000 Irish for the first time since November in the annual Blue­Gold game. 
Was this game the result of the new emphasis on team cohesion? It's tough to tell. 
Unlike in years past, 
see FOOTBALL/page 18 


BASEBALL 

Strong pitching helps Notre Drune take St. John's in series 
Instead of giving in, Gagne Three of those runs came on a the ball hard, but still allowed Awareness Game," a project of By NOAH AMSTADTER held his own, giving up three tremendous home run by two runners to score on ground former Irish catcher Chuck Sports Writer runs in six-plus innings. freshman right-fielder Brian balls as the Red Storm tied the Lennon's management class. Meanwhile, the Stavisky. game at eight runs apiece. One of the main planners from In a series that featured Irish offense Game 1 In the eighth inning, each The Irish provided the most the class was sophomore Paul some of the best pitching in the clicked against team scored one run. The Irish exciting moment in the event­O'Toole, who got two hits to go
Notre Dame 8
Big East, outstanding crowds McGeery, scor­scored on a homer by designat­ful game in the bottom of the along with two diving catches and a walk-off home run, the ing seven runs St. John's 3 ed hitter Ken Mever, who had a ninth inning as senior first in left field on Sunday. lrish baseball team took two of in seven Game2 tremendous weekend at the baseman Jeff Felker hit a the "It was really an exciting three games over the Red innings. plate, cracking out eight hits, ball over the fence to win the event, the class did a great
St. John's 6
Storm of St. John's this week­Notre Dame six of which went for extra game l'or the Irish by a score of job," said Mainieri. "The crowd end. opened up tho Notre Dame 4 basPs. 9-8. was great and I foci everybody ln what was seemingly a mis­game in the Unfortunately, the Irish could "[Sunday's] game was a benefited from the knowledge
Game 3
match on the mound Sunday seventh inning. not hold the two-run lead in tremendous victory," said head they provided. It was a fun day afternoon. freshman J.P Gagne After the Hed Notre Dame 9 tho top of tho ninth. Buchmaier coach Paul Mainieri. "There at the ballpark." took the mound against St. Storm scored gave up two hits to begin the were about 1500 people there The two squads split a dou­
St. John's 8 
John's pitcher Kevin McGeery. three runs off inning before head coach Paul today -just hearing the crowd bleheader Saturday afternoon, MeGeery. who brought in a 5-2 Gagne and 1\faiuieri brought in senior clos­was nice." with junior All-American record, is rated as one of the sophomorfl reliever Matt er John Corbin to try to stop The game had been heavilv Aaron Heilman pitching yet top collegiate pitchers in the Huchmaicr, the Irish scored tho bleeding. Corbin kept the advertised on campus all week country. four runs to take a 7-5 lead. St. John's hitters from hitting as the "Breast Cancer 
see BASEBALL/page 18 
.. 
Softball 
Tennis

e at Grand Valley Stare 
Track and field Sofcball
SPORTS 
MIAA Conference 

Tuesday, 4 p.m. 
Big East Championships Big East Tournament
T ou rnamem

ATA At Piscataway, NJ at Chestnut Hill, Mass. 
e • •
at Albion College 

Baseball 
Friday-Sunday Friday-Sunday
A vs. Northwestern f riday-Sarurday
GLANCE • 

Tuesday, 6:05 p.m. 


