
Good Bye Ben 
Happy Thanksgiving 
Scene music critic Geoff Rahie says goodbye to 

Tuesday

The Observer will resume publishing Tuesday, 
one of the most innovative and energetic 

November 28. Have a safe and happy holiday. 
bands oflast decade, Hen Folds Five. 

NOVEMBER 21,
Scene . page 13 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 59 

MPs detain 8 ND, SMC students 
whern the base is located, toBy TIM LOGAN join in that remembrance. Once

Senior Staff Writer 
there. they participated in a two-day vigil with an estimated"Romana Nicholas. Age 2. 

6,500 other protesters from

Guatemala," a voice cried out across the country.
when the drum roll stopped. 
"It was pretty powerful," said "Presente," replied the thou­junior Rachel Soltis. "It's a

sands of marchers. each one 
diversity or people, but you can raising a little white cross into 

see in their the air to 

eyes it's all

symbolize 
the same

that the tod­"ft was pretty powerful. 
why they're

dler was pre.­it's a diversity ofpeople, there." sent in spirit. 
but you can see in their The 33

Romana travelers,
Nicholas was eyes it's all the same why 
their num­

one of thou­they're there." bers upsands of 
from 24 a

innocent 
year ago,

Rachel Soltis

people killed 
had a long

by graduates junior 
journey.

of the School of the Americas (SOA). a U. S. Army program located in Fort Benning, Ga., which trains Latin American officers in human rights, democracy, and. some speculate, torture. And Sunday, Nicholas and every other innocent victim of SOA graduates was remembered at a vigil and mass demonstration calling for the school to be closed. 
Thirty-three students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's traveled to Columbus. Ga .. 
They left 
Friday after­noon. After a brief prayer ser­vice and procession through the snow from the Center for Social Concerns to Library Circle, they piled into four vans and headed south. 
On the way, the travelers anticipated the upcoming demonstration, sang songs, slept and got to know each other. 
"It was totally like your clas­sic road trip," Soltis said. Nineteen hours later, at noon on Saturday, the vans arrived. 

Most of the students went to a vigil Saturday afternoon at the base gate where speakers discussed some of the atrocities committed by SOA graduates. A number of the school's 60,000 graduates, including former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega and Roberto D'Aubisson. who is widely believed to have ordered the assassination of Archbishop Oscar Romero, have been accused of human rights abus­es. 
The big event came Sunday, on a cold and rainy afternoon. That was when the "funeral procession" and march onto the base itself would take place. As the demonstrators took their places in line, more speakers, including actor Martin Sheen, encouraged them and denounced the SOA. The marchers lined up, linking arms five across, and the pro­cession was ready to begin. 
Then it started, and the line marched towards the base, while a drum rolled and singers shouted out the names of victims of SOA graduates. 
"It was really powerful because we'd hear the whole family, one by one," Soltis said. This went on for more than an 
see STUDENTS/page 4 
HTTP:! /OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Police arrest 1,700 at SOA protest in Georgia 
. Martin Sheen among arrested demonstrators 
As,ociated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ga. 

Wearing white masks and black robes and carrying card­board coffins and crosses, thousands of demonstrators marched slowly through the gates of F o r t Benning. 
A s they've done every year since 1989, they c a m e Sunday to demand the closing of the Army's School of the Americas, which trains Latin American soldiers. Critics blame the school for human rights abuses committed by some of its graduates ­charges the Army calls absurd. 
''I'd characterize it as false and as propaganda," Maj. Gen. John LeMoyne, the post com-


mander, said. 
Police arrested 1,700 protest­ers. including actor Martin Sheen -about half the num­ber that entered the west-cen­tral Georgia post Sunday. An estimated 3,000 others contin­ued the protest outside the gates. 
Most of those arrested were charged with trespassing, given a warning and released, said Col. G.T. Myers, Fort Benning's provost marshal. Some who poured fake blood on the street were charged with damaging government property, he said. 
· The annual demonstration commemorates the Nov. 16, 1989, killings in El Salvador of six Jesuit priests, to which some of the school's graduates have been linked. 
Though the school is sched­uled to close Dec. 15 and be replaced by the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation, oppo­nents vow to keep up the protests. 
"We see this as cosmetic," said Roy Bourgeois. a co­founder of School of the Americas Watch who has 
see PROTEST/page 4 

In memory of Brionne 
moved on to a better place,"

. Mass honors 
University president FatherWelsh junior who Edward Malloy said to a crowd 
comprised mostly of students

succumbed to cancer 
and Clary's fellow Welsh Hall residents.

By JASON McFARLEY Malloy, who presided over the 
Assistant News Edi tor 
50-minute Mass, also delivered Clary's homily. He lauded ClaryTwo months to the day of her 
as a symbol of courage and per­death, Brionne Clary's friends, sonal strength.family and neighbors gathered "She was courageous in fight-to celebrate 
ing her med­the life of the 
ical dilemma. former Welsh 
"Although it is with great She didn't 

Family Hall 
want it to be a
sadnes that we gather

resident at a strike against well-attended here today, it is with her or an memorial Mass 
great confidence that we obstacle. She 

Tuesday. fought grace­
understand Brianne has 

The atten­fully and with dees filled the moved to a better place." a sense of Basilica of the purpose; and Sacred Heart 
in doing that,
Father Edward Malloy

to more than she serves as
University president

half capacity a model for all and remem­of us," Malloy bered the 
said. Notre Dame junior whose Sept. 
Malloy praised Clary, of Tyler. 20 death marked the end of a 
Texas. as an asset to the years-long battle with leukemia. University."Although it is with sadness "To the members of Briooiie's that we gather here today, it is family: Thanks for the gift of with great confidence that we understand that Brionne has see BRIONNE/page 4 

Tuesday, November 21, 2000

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Holiday Blues 
Two years ago this Thanksgiving eve was my family's day from hell. My big brother was gone visiting friends. My mom had taken our truck to work and then to help her friend pack for a move. My dad had gotten a ride to 
work because his car was  Sarah  
in the shop. It was a dark. rainy, cold  Rykowski  
day. I left the house with  
plenty of time to get to my  Saint Mary's  
doctor's appointment.  News Editor  
Until I realized that the  
entrance ramp was backed  

up to who knew where, and I decided to cut across town. I knew I was going to be late once l realized that traffic was a mess. 
Smack in front of my high school, I pan­icked. I switched lanes none too subtly and bumped a black sedan that had somehow sQuck up on my left. Since it was my first accident and the people were not friendly, I was a basket-case in no time l1at. 
Meanwhile. my mom was on her way to her friend's house and heard her tire blow when she was almost there. By the time she parked at the house, it was completely flat. She called my father, who got a ride out to the house, and the two of them had to fix the tire. 
The lug nuts would not budge. Finally they managed it, only to arrive home and listen to my frantic messages on the machine. My mom dropped my dad off at the accident, and he helped me deal with the police officer and the couple in the other car. My dad drove me home after the accident, since I was in no state to drive. 
Halfway home, he turned to me and remarked that he was getting wet. It turned out that I had dented the driver's side door hinge, so that at the top of the door there was about an inch of open air between it and the car itself. 
And to top it all off, my poor little brother, Pete got left at basketball practice for about two hours. After dropping my dad off, and undergoing severe emotional strain because of yours truly, my mom had drive back across town to my brother's high school in hellish traffic to pick him up. 
Pete waited patiently by the gym, knowing any minute his mom would show up to take him home. Ironically, right before my mom got there, he gave up on her and got a ride home with someone from one of the girls' basketball teams. 
All of us were finally all home when we remembered we were supposed to be at our friends' house for dinner, and that my older brother would be meeting us there. We were all tired and emotionally exhausted, but we went anyway. Most of the evening was spent swapping car stories, but I wasn't the only one supplying the laughs. 
By the time I woke up the next morning, I was very, very grateful for a lot of things, including a safe car to drive, loving parents and hilarious and supportive friends. And I was still alive. And I'm not a bad driver any­more. 
I have the dubious distinction of being the only member of my family who is speeding ticket free. But that could just be because I drive slow. 
The 1Jiews expressed in lhe Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  •  Scene  
Kiflin Turner  Sam Derheimer  
Maureen Smithe  Chris Scott  
Myra McGriff  Graphics  
Sports  Dana Mangnuson  
Kathleen O'Brien  Production  
Viewpoint  Todd Niero  
Kure Bogaard  Lab Tech  
Amanda Greco  

The Observer (USl'S 59') 2-4000) is p,,l,lishcJ Monday through Frida)' C'X1.:t'pt Jllring txam and vo1.c;uion periods. Th~ Observer i~ a member of thr ru~ociJIC'd Pre~s. AH rcprod.union righu arc reserved.. 

QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"/ could talk about  "/ absolutely endorse  "You can play bigtime  "Americans struggle  
the hostile  the idea that a loss of  football at Ohio State  with a sexual culture  
environment but let's  faith or the criticism  or Florida, but I  divided between  
skip all that. Let's  offaith can  wanted a bigtime  Puritanical  
just get down to the  ultimately  degree."  repression and  
teachings ofthe  strengthen it."  pornographic over­ 
,, 
church."  exposure.  
Dean of the College of  Ron Israel, Notre Dame  
Father John Harvey on  Arts and Letters, Mark  strong safety  Peggy Sanday on 'rape­ 
homosexuality at Notre  Roche on questioning  prone' campuses  
Dame  religion  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
San Diego State mascot receives criticism 
SAN DIEGO through a human symbol," Weber 
"Monty" Montezuma will continue said. "But we must do so in a way the San Diego State University tra­that respects and accurately por­dition of running through the stands trays the individual represented and and twirling his flaming spear dur­his or her culture. ing football games. At least for the "It is not unreasonable to also timn being. expect that San Diego State's sym­
Monty's future as the San Diego bols and logos be appropriate." State University mascot has been in For now, Weber said everything jeopardy the last two months after a will stay the same. "Monty" will group of students from the Native still perform at scheduled sporting American Student Alliance asked events and the Campus Bookstore the university to stop the human will still sell paraphernalia donning depiction of Native Americans. the red-faced mascot logo. 
University president Stephen Last Thursday, Weber emerged Weber has asked the Academic Weber has prolonged the two­from months of silence about the Affairs and the Alumni Association month debate until possibly May 1, issue and told the nation his deci­to submit a proposal on ways the when a 20 member task force will sion: the Aztec nickname will stay, campus can educate students about 
report to him whether the mascot but the mascot will be looked into. the Aztecs; whether it be through a should be changed or hit the road "I am open to SDSU continuing to series of lectures, artistic presenta, completely. express its aspirations and values tions or discussions of the culture. 

OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Riots erupt after football game 
Police made 29 arrests and fired tear gas and rubber bullets in response to rioting at Ohio State University in Columbus early Sunday morning. Rioters set 129 fires and a student was stabbed during the violence that followed Ohio State's 38-26 loss to Michigan in Saturday afternoon's football game. "That student was operated on this morning and is out of the woods," Ohio State spokeswoman Elizabeth Conlisk said Sunday. At least five cars were overturned or signifi­cantly damaged. Ohio State officials expect to know Monday how many students were among those arrest­ed. Police were unable to say whether any University of Michigan students were arrested. "It is obvious that excessive alcohol is at the core of this problem, and in addition we will continue our efforts to curb alcohol abuse," Ohio State president William Kirwan said in a written statement. The riots occurred despite a video shown during the football game. Kirwan also sent an e-mail earlier in the week to Ohio State's 48,000 stu­dents with the same message. 
MIT 

Window fall kills student 
A woman was killed Sunday night after falling from a high floor of a graduate student dormitory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, campus offi­cials confirmed. At about 9 p.m. Sunday night, wit­nesses saw the woman fall from a window in a tower at the Westgate complex on MIT's west campus. Two sources familiar with the incident, including a wit­ness, said the woman fell from the 14th floor. Paramedics from the Cambridge Fire Department and the Professional Ambulance Company were on the scene within minutes but were unable to revive the woman. For a few hours, a small crowd gathered outside the dormitory as MIT officers and engineers secured the scene. A spokesperson there said he did not know the identity of the woman. Police and the Suffolk County Medical Examiner's office will con­duct separate investigations into the death.The last death at MIT occurred in April of this year. Elizabeth Shin, then a sophomore, died after setting herself on fire in her dorm room. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeatherw forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 21. 
H L 

Wednesday fE1 31 19 Thursday fE1 36 26 Friday ~ 43 31 
C 2000 AeeuWHlher, Inc. 
~_._._~

Saturday ~ 47 32 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 


High Low Shower• Rain T0 11orm1 Flurthll• Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Sunday ~ 45 30 
.. " .. '" 

Atlanta  40  26  Las Vegas  63  40  Portland  50  40  
Q,~-~9,Q.Q ~  ~ u  Balhmore Boston  40 43  26 31  Memphis Milwaukee  55 30  33 22  Sacramento St. Louis  59 28  40 20  
Showers  T~storms Rain  Fl1,1ffies  Snow  Jee  Sunny  Pt. CI01,,Jdy  Clovdy  ChiCaijO  32  22  New York  42  31  Tampa  60  36  
Via Associ.af~d Prllss GraphicsN8t  Houston  61  46  Philadelphia  41  26  Washington  DC 41  25  

I• I'•

'. ... ' .' . ' .. 

Tuesday, November 21, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Prof leads environment conference 
. McElroy discusses effects of tourism on island habitats 
By KATIE MILLER 
News Wrirer 
The scientific committee on problems of the environment (SCOPE) discussed the effects of tourism on the locul culture and 1rnvironment of island nations at a conference in late September. Saint Mary's eco­nomics professor Jerry McElroy is a member of the committee that serves n.s a network of international envi­ronmenta! researchers. 
In addition to SCOPE mem• hers and academic researchers, travel writers, und representatives from island governments and tourist industry attended the conference. 
In March, J\IcElroy met with SCOPE members in Paris to choose a focus for September's conference. 
''WH decided to focus on observing bio-diversity and its link to tourism especially on islands. Tourism is the lifeblood on islands. We want­ed to discuss managing diver­sity in the long run. Islands have the most to gc).in by man­aging assets." said McE!roy. 
The conference presented two background papers dis­cussing the use of info-tech­nology on tourism. The con­ference also included McElroy's paper that dis­
cussed the impact of tourism in small islands. 
"The hope is that from these studies common ingredients for sustainable tourism will surface," he said. 
McElroy acknowledged the great need for environmental protection without a large 
.amount of 
governmen­
tal interven­
tion. 
"One way 
to preserve 
bin-diversity 
is with 
national 
parks. The 
hote I and 
a i r I i n e 
industries 
must support 
preserving 
national 
assets," 
McElroy 
added. 

discuss pertinent environmen­tal issues in the future. 
"I th.ink it's safe to say we don't have any strong recom­mendations at this point. It is business as usual; bio-diversi­ty will not work as long as it affects local culture and envi­ronment." McElroy said. 
"We decided to focus on observinq bio-diversity and it's link to tourism especially on islands. Tourism is the lifeblood on islands . ... Islands have the most to gain by managing assets." 
Jerry McElroy SMC economics professor 
Island nations tend to make tourism a larger priority than their local culture and envi­ronment. 
"In islands, travel interests go towards profits; the envi­ronment suffers the most. There is a new understanding that it is to our economic interests to preserve our envi­ronment, and when people travel, it is to learn some­thing, not to observe an extension of their own cul­ture," he said. "Unless people are concerned, nothing will happen." 
The conference members hope to continue meeting to 
McElroy presented an example of an island nation exe­cuting bio­diversity. An international organization appropriated one of the Seys he Ile islands in the Indian ocean as a bird sanctu­ary. As a result. 

tourists from ail over the world visit the island to see the unique habitat. 
"It is important to find ways in which we can foster soft forms of tourism and eco­tourism," he said. "This is done by visiting sites in small numbers to learn about or appreciate different forms of wildlife." In order for any country to preserve its envi­ronment and local culture, cit­izens must be involved, he added. 
"The greatest safeguard to the environment is citizen awareness. The citizens will not allow the government to destroy what's there." 
ND appoints new assistant provost 
Special to The Observer 
Joy Vann-Hamilton, most 

recently  director  of  the  
Minority  Enginee ring  
Program  (MEP)  at  the  

University of Notre Dame. has been appointed assistant provost of the Uni­versity, 


according Vann-Hamilton to Nathan Hatch, provost. Her appointment was effective Nov. 1. "I am delighted to wel­come Joy to the Provost Office," Hatch said. "Joy has been extremely successful in developing and imple­menting a number of initia­tives within the College of Engineering designed to strengthen retention and graduation rates among students from historically underrepresented racial groups. I am confident that she will bring wonderful skills and an excellent per­spective to the Provost Office, and I look forward to working with her." As assistant provost, Vann-Hamilton will oversee the University's Trio pro­grams -Upward Bound, 
Educational Talent Search and the Ronald McNair Post-Baccalaureate Program. all federally fund­ed projects designed to enhance postsecondary edu­cational opportunities for economically di:'iadvan­tagcd young people. She also will assist in appoint­ing and approving leaves for tenure track faculty, direct a tracking system for Notre Dame undergradu­ates who pursue graduate education, serve as the provost's liaison with the University's Early 
Childhood Development Center, and work on special projects. 
Vann-Hamilton served for nine years as the director or MEP. which was established in 1987 to challenge and encourage minority stu­dents in their pursuit of undergraduate degrees and provide them with the lead­ership skills necessary for successful careers in engi­neering. 
A graduate of Wichita State University and for­merly a resident of Fort Scott, Kan., Vann-Hamilton earned her master's of busi­ness administration degree from Notre Dame in 1998. She currently is pursuing a doctorate in teaching, learning and administration from Andrews University. 

PR 
:E 
R T 

Don't FORGET... GEARfar Sport~ is sponsoring a competition among the campus reszdence halls, givzng a cash awardof $I, ooo to the hall which collects the most coatsper capital 
So ... bring backjacketsfrom home after Thanksgiving break! 





Bring your jacket to one of the Give away your coat ... and 
various Project Waimth sites on 

Share the Warmth!
campus and receive a coupon for a 
25% discount on a new GEAR 

Hammes St. Michael's For Sports® 
Bookstore Laundry 
jacket at the Hammes Bookstore! Student UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Activities 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, Noember 21, 2000 
"It's so pow­
esting to talk erfu I." said "We didn't want to turn with him. to junior Katie 
around and walk away. hear his per­
Millar, one of 
spective,"
We wanted to co~lfront
16 Notre Dame 
Millar said. 
travelers who and show our presence." "We weren't Pntered the 
protesting the
base. 
people who
Katie Millar
"To me it worked at the
junior
was so over­SOA or saying
whelming that 
that they werethe act of 
evil people." 
crossing the line was just part of After the processing, Millar and the procession." she said. "It was her seven companions, along with just a continuation of the proces­
other detained demonstrators,
sion for me." 
were bussed off the base, whereProtnsters who entered the base they reunited with those who hadwere given the chance by military 
not entered and those who had
police to turn around and face no turned back.
sanctions. But the 2,000 who did And the Notre Dume group gotnot. including eight from Notre back in their vans for the ride
Dame and Saint Mary's. wore back to South Bend, thinking
apprehended and processed. One 
about their journey to Georgia
of these was Millar. "We didn't just want to turn and searching on the radio for the score of Saturday's football game. 
around and walk away," she said. "We wanted to confront and show They will have a public discus­our presence." sion of the trip and the School of 
After a several hour wait, these the Americas some time after demonstrators were pho-Thanksgiving, according to Soltis. 

a 
ARTHURANDERSEN 
Meet. Greet. And eat. 
gy, enthusiasm and sense of lidence that she lived her life humor'' evident in Clary's worthily," Malloy said, calling
Brionne 
academic work and for the audience to do like­
extracurricular activities. wise.
continued from page 1 
Clary, a mechanical engi­Clary died from pneumonia, your daughter or your sister neering major. was active in a complication of her cancer. to the University. She has interhall basketball and She was first stricken with enriched this community," other dorm activities. leukemia in high school but Malloy said, addressing the "We know a lot about recovered from the disease. 20-year-old's parents and Brianne from her friends She was re-diagnosed in two sisters. and your presence here August and didn't return for 
Malloy spoke of an "ener-today. This provides us con-her junior year of studies. 
rain. Many protesters, wear­to a year in prison if charged ing plastic parkas. shivered with trespassing on the post
Protest 
as they marched to a point again within that period. continued from page I where they were halted by Sister Mary Johnalyn, 68, 
police. of West Allis. Wis.. said she spearheaded the protests. Sheen, who plays the was photographed, f'ingcr­"H's like taking a bottle of nation's president in the hit printed and given a letter poison and writing TV show "The West Wing," barring her from the post 'Penicillin' on it." has joined the protests the She said she was charged 
The new sr,hool will be run past three years. Myers said with damaging U.S. property by the Defense Department, he did not know what laws for spilling fake blood. under guiding principles of the actor was accused of "1 was a missionary in the Organization ol' American breaking. Mexico and I found those States. Those arrested were given people so loving," she said. "1 
The demonstration Sunday letters barring them from don't want them to come up took place in near-freezing visiting Fort Benning for five here and learn to be ugly temperatures and occasional years. They could be subject murderers." 
NEWS IN BRIEF 
Corrected United Limo times: United Limo leaves from Notre Dame's west guard gate to Chicago-area airports this week at the following times: 4:05 a.m., 5:05 a.m., 6:05 a.m., 8:05 a.m., 10:05 a.m., 11:05 a.m. 12:05 p.m., 2:05 p.m., 4:05 p.m. and 6:05 p.m. 
Assurance Business Consulting Corporate Finance eBusiness Human Capital Legal Services Outsourcing Risk Consulting Tax Services 

Interested in a career at Arthur Andersen? Want an internship next summer? 
Join us at our "Meet the Firm!" event on November 28. We'll present descriptions of what we do-in all our services. Come learn about exciting opportunities at one of the world's leading professional services firms. 
Meet the Firm Night! 
Auditorium Center for Continuing Education Tuesday, November 28 
6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. 
Please bring an updated resume. And bring your appetite-we'll have pizza and refreshments! 
www.arthurandersen.com 
Note: The services offered In particular areas may depend on local regulations. In some locations, legal and/or tax services are provided by Andersen Legal, the international network of law firms that is ~sociated with Andersen Worldwide SC. 
Arthur Andersen refers to the U.S. firm of Arthur Andersen LLP and other members of the Arthur Andersen global client service network. © 2000 Arthur Andersen. All rights reserved. 
Students 
continued from page I 
hour, until the procession reached the gatus of Fort Benning. Only about half of tht! marchers intended to cross the line into the base, and in so doing break the law. Those who would not cross left the ranks. Hut tho rest cuntin­ued on. 
tographed, fingerprinted and given "ban and bar" letters, pro­hibiting them from entering Fort Benning for five years. During the wait, several base administrators met with protesters to discuss tho school, to tell them the Army's side of the story. One colonel who talked with Millar spoke of the good work the school does in training its students to respect human rights and democracy. 
"It was inter­
Pleaser 


ATION 
Tuesday, November 21, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Japan parliament motion defeated: 
/\ no-confidcnco motion against Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori was defeated in Parliament early Tuesday after a leading rul­ing party member withdrew his support for it. Tht' motion failed by a vote of' 237-190 in an early rnorniug ballot after a marathon -and often raucous -session in which opposition lawmak1m, argued Mori's government was a failure. 
China joins U.N. human rights: China agreed Monday to accept United Nations help to move it toward complying wilh international human rights tn'aties, a derision hailed as a milestone by the U.N.'s human rights chief. Under the agrcrm1mt, human rights workshops will be arrange<l witb government officials. judges, prosecutors, lawyers, police and prison officials. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Protein linked to AIDS virus: A pro­tein that does housekeeping inside cells plays a key role in spreading the AIDS virus to other cells of the body. researchers report. In studies appearing in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. researchers say a group of proteins, called proteasomes, are used by I!IV. the AIDS virus. to assemble new viral par­ticles and to spread those new particles to other uninfected cells, Ulrich Schubert of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases said test tube studies show that block­ing the action of the proteasome proteins can reduce the spread ol' HIV infection by about 98 percent. 
FDA says Tamilflu prevents flu: 
Taking the prescription f1u therapy Tamit1u not only treats influenza, but a pill a day during an outbreak can prevent the misery­inducing illness almost like a vaccine, the government announced Monday. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Indiana highway hero: A truck driver from north-central Indiana has won the 2000 Indiana Goodyear Highway Hero Award, the tire company announced Monday, Heath Martin, of Kewanna, was honored for his efforts in battling a house fire in Roanoke, Indiana. 
Pastor faces deportation: A pastor who has lived in the United States since he was 10-years-old could be deported because he voted in an election and was not a U.S. citi­zen. Frank Audia. 28, is a native of El Salvador. 
Market Watch 11/20 

Dow 
10,462.65 -167.22 

]ONES 
Compo•ite
Same: Volume:
497 

-NIA 
Nasdaq; 2875.64 -151.55 S&P 500: 1342.62 -25.10 
·­
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SEC:URITY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -l'i,10  -4,ilb  24.75  
WORLDCOM INC {WC0\1)  -~-.rn  _(Ul)  1,.06  
Cl~CO s,,TeMS \CSCO)  -l,M  -1.50  SI .25  
NASDAQ HKI SHAR (QQQ)  .4.0H  ~2.4J(i  69.86  
MICROSOFT CORP (M5FT)  -l,71  -1.~7  67.19  

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Associated Press 

A transfixed nation turned its eyes to Florida's Supreme Court, where an army of lawyers for Al Gore and George 
W. Bush battled Monday over whether the marathon election should drag on. Weary recount workers pecked through ballots in three Democratic-leaning coun­ties. wondering if their labor would be for naught. 
After 13 days of sus­pended political anima­tion, lawsuits and coun­te rsuits, "chads" and 
"pregnant chads," the presidential election may come down to this: Seven justices, all appointed by Democratic governors, will decide if the GOP sec­retary of state can certify Bush's minuscule lead without accepting votes counted by hand. 
Bush's official lead stands at 930 votes. Gore picked up 134 votes in manual recounts by late Monday, which if counted would reduce Bush's mar­gin to 796. Gore advisers were frustrated by their relatively small gains; Bush's forces cried foul in the one county where the 
vice president gained ground. 
The historic Supreme Court hearing opened with a court marshal bel­lowing, "God save these United States," and the justices got right down to business -peppering lawyers with questions of law in a case riddled with political landmines. 
Chief Justice Charles Wells pressed both sides about how long the state might wait to certify its election results without jeopardizing its 25-vote stake in the .Dec. 18 roll call of the Electoral College. His questions 
sketched a scenario in which recounts might continue, perhaps into December. 
"Tell me when Florida's electoral vote would be in jeopardy." Wells said again and again. "Why wouldn't it be in this unique circumstance a better thing to do to wait" to certify vote totals. 
Justice Barbara Pariente asked whether selective recounts were unfair to voters who live in counties where the bal-' lots were tabulated only once -a point that Bush has made in his legal fil­ings. 
SUDAN 

U.S. supports Sudan war victims 
apartheid movement," Hice said in the rebel stronghold of Yei in south­
Associated Press 

the town of Rumbek during a two­ern Sudan, killing 18 people. RUMBEK day visit to southern Sudan. Norwegian People's Aid said more Sitting in the shade to escape the than 50 others were wounded when
Moved by the accounts of freed slaves, a senior U.S. official on searing heat in Maria! Bai in the 14 bombs hit the town. It is the lat­Monday pledged America's diplo­war-devastated province of Bahr el est in a series of air attacks by the matic, humanitarian and moral sup­Ghazal on Sunday, Hice listened to Sudanese government on rebel-held port to the people of southern Sudan four women tell how they were held areas. as slaves between 1998 and 1999. War has plagued much of Africa's 
caught up in a 17-year-old civil war. 
Susan Rice, the assistant secretary "The U.S. will never tolerate slav­largest nation for 33 of the 44 years of state for African affairs, said ery and will never rest until the suf­since it gaine<l independence from their problems -including abduc­fering you and many.others have Anglo-Egyptian rule in 1956. tions. slavery and airstrikes -have experienced is ended," Rice told The latest conflict broke out in captured the sympathy of them. 1983 and is seen as a fight between 
In a fresh reminder of the brutal the predominantly Christian south,
Americans.• 

war. an aid organization working in which is seeking greater autonomy
''The Sudan issue resonates in a way with the U.S. public on a scale Sudan said Monday that govern­and religious freedom and the we have not seen since the anti-ment planes bombed a market in largely Muslim government. 
----------------------. 
page 6 . The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 21, 2000 


•
010 
• 

•
IC 
• 
It really is that easy. Free, too. 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer OBSERVER 
online classifieds 
Tuesday, ·November 21, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
NETHERLANDS ISRAEL 
U.N. court hears rape prosecutors 
Associated Press 
THE HAGUE, Netherlands 

War crimes prosecutors on Monday urged a U.N. court to show no mercy toward three Bosnian Serbs accused of sexu­ally enslaving and torturing Muslim women. 
The U.N. war crimes tribunal for the former Yugoslavia was asked in the strongest terms to put Dragoljub Kunarac, Hadomir Kovac and Zoran Vukovic behind bars for up Lo 35 years. The men have not been convicted or sentenced, but the prosecutors can call for ajail term. 
"No sentence this court can possibly devise can adequately deal with the injustice the vic­tims sulfored at the hands of these men," prosecutor Dirk Ryneveld, a Canadian, told the three-judge panel in the first international prosecution of wartime sexual enslavement. 
Prosecutors detailed the abus­
es inflicted on dozens of Bosnian 
Muslim women, including the 16 
who bravely took the witness 
stand since the trial began in 
April. Although their identities 
were concealed from public 
view, the witnesses stood face­to-face with their former tor­mentors. 
Victims as young as 12 and 13 years old were assaulted "in all possible ways," said German prosecutor Hildegard Uertz-Retzlaff. · 
One woman, identified as "witness no. 75," was gang­rapnd for three hours by 15 men. Tvvo teen-age girls were held for months by Kovac as personal sex slaves and then sold as chattel. 
Women were assaulted in front of their children. Others were forced at gunpoint to strip and paraded outdoors. Several tried to commit suicide. 
"Not one of them will ever for­get," said Ryneveld. 
The U.N. tribunal. established in 1993, has convicted 14 Bosnian Serbs, Muslims and Croats and handed down prison sentences ofup to 45 years. 
No date for a verdict in the rape case has been set by the trial chamber's president, Florence Mumba of Zambia. 
The tribunal is known to take sex crimes very seriously in con­trast to the Nuremberg and Tokyo war crimes trials follow­ing World War II, where they were not prosecuted. The court's statutes require no cor­roboration of rape victims' testi­

mony. 

The accused allegedly fought with paramilitary gangs in the southeastern Bosnian city of Foca, "ethnically cleansed" by Serb forces at the outset of the 1992-95 Bosnian war. 
Women were separated from their husbands and detained with their daughters for up to 2 1/2 years in a sports hall, a high school and Serb homes. 
The defendants claimed the sex was consensual. Kunarac, the key defendant, went so far as to assert that one of the vic­tims actually forced herself on him. 
Prosecutors, however, reject­ed Kunarac's claim, saying the girl was coerced into having sex with the gang leader by his sub­commander. 
During the trial, defense lawyers challenged the motives of the witnesses, alleging they concocted the stories together. 
"There was only one reason. and one reason alone, for the witnesses to point their fingers at these accused," said American prosecutor Peggy Kuo. "These men did these unspeakable things to them." 
0

,RET IREMENT INSU.RAff,CE MUTUAL FUNDS )aiust"SERVftE(: )u1TIDN FINAN~,.NG 
\Vhy is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
Th_e TIAA-CREF Advantage. 
·rear in and year out, ernpbyees Jt education 2nd research institl!tions h;,ve turned to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy d1vers1ficatic,n 2mong a range of expertiy managed iund, 

• 
A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service 

• 
A strong commit:nent to low expenses 

• 
·Plus, a full range of flexib!e retirement income options 


For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider 1s simple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF 
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it:~
~ 


TBE TIAA-CREF 
L 

ADVANTAGE 
f 
-
-
j 

investment Expertise 
I 
' 

Low Expenses 
[ 
i

Customized 
[,

Payment Options 
i 

-
"·

Expert Guidance 
r 

..,"'!". ,,,,i,·····~-1f$r~·,·~,:""··,\ttjt·"·:,t~=\»tm·''-·7~:wr 
" 

1.800.842.2776 
W'A-'W. tiaa-cref.org
-----------------------'----------­
For more complete intormation on our securities products, please call 1.800.842 .2 733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc distributes the CREF and TIAA Re;il Estate v;iriable annuities • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Per5ornl Annuities variable annuity component,"mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co, New York, NY, issue insurance and clnnu1ties. • TIAA-CREF Trust Cornµany, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, rn3y lose value and are net bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
Three Israeli siblings suffer boIDb injuries 
Associated Press 
BEERSHEBA 

Two years ago, Noga Cohen's children escaped injury when a suicide bomber blew himself up near their school bus. But on Monday another bomb struck home. 
Three of Cohen's seven chil­dren -her son Israel, 7, and two daughters, Tehila, 9, and Orit, 12 -lost limbs when their bus was sprayed by shrapnel from a mortar shell detonated by Palestinian mili­tants as it traveled from the Kfar Darom settlement to their school in the Gaza Strip. 
Israel lost a leg, Orit part of a foot, and Tehila was badly hurt in both legs. 
"It looks like there are no more miracles," said Cohen, as she waited at Soroka Hospital in the Negev Desert town of Beersheba for word from doctors on whether they would have to amputate Tehila's legs. 
Cohen, 32, and her husband Ofir, 33, have lived in Kfar Darom, a settlement of 250 families surrounded by Palestinian-con trolled areas, for 10 years. 
Ideology brought the Cohens to Gaza. They wanted to claim some of the poverty-stricken, overcrowded strip with 1 mil­lion Palestinian residents for the Jewish people. The Cohens, who are among 6,500 settlers in Gaza, believe Gaza is part of Eretz Israel, the bib­lical land promised to the Jews by God. 
But Noga Cohen said she never imagined she "would have to pay such a heavy price for safeguarding our home­land." 
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak visited the Cohen chil­dren Monday evening. 
"These are children who will carry on their bodies, for the rest of their lives, the scars of this grave, criminal. barbaric act which we saw today," Barak told reporters at the hospital. 
The Cohen children, along with other youngsters and adults from Kfar Darom, got on an armored bus at about 
7:30 a.m. Monday for a 15­minute drive to their school in Gush Katif, a duster of Jewish settlements in southern Gaza. 
About three minutes after the bus left the heavily guard­ed settlement, three Palestinians detonated a 155mm mortar shell several dozen yards from the vehicle. 
Shrapnel tore melon-size holes into the right side of the bus, killing two adults. Nine passengers were wounded ­the driver, three women and five children. 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
"The studentS' First choice in ofj-camyus Housing"' Is Now rakinfj Apyltcations For The 2001-2002 school Year! 

Phone: 272-8124 M-F 911.111 -6pm, sat 1om11 -spm "Loc11ted Just east tif the Notre Dame soccer field" 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 21, 2000 
Controversial abortion pill heads for U.S. clinics 
offer mifepristone abortions and the National Abortion must get mifepristone training. Mifepristone blocks the
. RU-486 still 

using a method that means less Federation. More than 300 They must be able to date action of progesterone. vital for second to surgical hassle for patients than the such clinics are expected to early pregnancy and uncover an embryo to develop. A sec­abortion, doctors say Food and Drug Administration­offer the pills within a few ectopic pregnancies that ond drug, misoprostol, causes approved method -swallow­weeks. Most say they'll cost the require special care. For the contractions to expel the ing fewer pills and making one same as surgery -$300 to rare cases when mifepristone embryo. Studies show the com­
Associated P~•• less doctor visit. $700. fails. they must either perform bination causes abortion 95 
Still. it takes several days Women can get mifepristone, a surgical abortion or have a percent of' the time; seriousWASHINGTON 
It was hailed by pro-choice and miscarriage-like cramping known by the brand name backup surgeon on call. bleeding is a very rare side and bleeding before the pill­Mifeprex, only directly from Some gynecologists and fami-effect.
groups as a turning point in 

the abortion wars -a caused abor-abortion 1y practitioners in regions The FDA instructs women to
pill to 

tion is com­providers where abortion access is limit­swallow three mif'epristone
increase access to abortions 

"A woman might feel that
plete, while who agree ed are showing interest. Forty tablets. return to the doctor
and let women get them pri­

surgical abor­all she has to do is take a to follow attended mifepristone training two days later to swallow two
vately from their own doctor 

tions are fin­certain at the Women's Health Center misoprostol tablets, and return
instead of facing shouting pro­pill and the pregnancy 
ished within an FDA safety of Duluth, Minn., where again within two weeks for thetesters at clinics. 
kind ofmagically
hour. And the standards. women drive hundreds of miles doctor to check that the abor­
But with the first RU-486 

pill only works disappears, and of So far. from parts of Minnesota, tion worked.
abortions to begin this week. 

in early preg­many pri­Michigan and Wisconsin to get But manv abortion clinics
don't expect such sweeping course that's not true." 
nancy -49 vate doc-abortions. Nobody knows. how­plan to have women swallowchange yet. Private doctors so 
days after the tors are ever. how many of the physi­one mifepristone tablet and
far aren't rushing to embrace 

start of the last Maureen Paul w a r y . cians then ordered the drug. carry misoprostol home where,
the abortion pill, now called 

menstrual peri­doctor for Planned Parenthood Some cite Key may be how many two days later, they'll insert it
mifcpristone -and many of 

od -caveats security patients ask their doctors for vaginally. Then they'll makethe thousands of women flood­
abortion concerns. it. says Dr. Steven Tarnarin. a one return doctor visit to
ing hot lines seeking it are providers must ensure that One graphic Internet site is New York City family practi­ensure the abortion worked. Alearning surgical abortion 

women understand. identifying doctors who offer tioner who has never per­study in the Journal of the
remains the option most 

The FDA approved mifepris­mifepristone and other abor­formed abortions because he's American Medical Associationappropriate for them. 
tone in September. 12 years tions, sometimes naming their not a surgeon. Yet he has found the second, easier
"A woman might feel that all after European women began children, too. It's a reincarna­referred so many patients to method worked as well.

she has to do is take a pill and using it and after years of bit­tion of a mid-1 Y90s site that abortion clinics that he plans Only women in the first seventhe pregnancy kind of magical­ter opposition by anti-abortion some Internet providers shut to offer mifepristone next weeks of pregnancy are candi­

ly disappears. and of course 

groups. down after doctors were month -but only to his regu­dates. Most state abortion laws
that's not true," said Dr. 

On Monday, U.S. marketer attacked. lar patients. also apply to mifepristonc, so
Maureen Paul of Boston's Danco Laboratories shipped But there also are practical Regardless of where women timing the pill must take into

Planned Parenthood League of 

the first mifepristone supplies, obstacles: Insurers are debat­get mifepristone, what can account waiting periods and
Massachusetts. 

mostly to abortion clinics affili­ing whether and how much to they expect? It depends on parental notification require­
Many clinics are about to 

ated with Planned Parenthood pay for mifepristone. Doctors where they get the pill. ments. 
~ 
i[f'' !el 


CAMPUS YIIIII IPIRTIDlftTI 
M.\. 1801 IRISH WAY-SOUTH BEND, IN 46637-(219) 272-1441 ~
':'liU 
M:\. 

waL/efug Distauce to campus!! iJJH 
i1.: Iii ~ 
P:f) H 


LOOKING FOR A 



;:'.j/i!
NEW ''VIEW'' NEXT FALL? ~ 
~ 
~
lj';l1__1 
)i1/~1 
~ 
.... u 
~

CAMPUS VIEW OFFERS: 
~ 
M'.:\.
;l:'.! 1 
,j)lli

*Large, spacious apartmentsft *Limited Renovated Kitchens ~ 
(j)_II 

~ *Swimming Pool, Tennis and Basketball Courts 
''i':.,,· 

*LOCATION! A short walk to a Grocery Store, Drug Store, ~ ~ Restaurants, and CAMPUS! 
::a:L'! -~ 
*Affordable Pricing


" M;\.
f]n 
(j{~t 

~ Filling Fast! Reservations now for Fall 2001. Get them while they last! 
~
it".'.~-~­
iiJtu 


Tuesday, November 21, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Massachusetts nurse on trial for veteran deaths 
federal case, brought by the by falsifying medical reporls. government because the alleged He said Gilbert confessed to crimes took place on federal the attacks to Perrault and to property. her ex-husband. He quoted her 
Prosecutor William Welch said as telling PP.rrault, "I did it! I did Gilbert provoked medical emer­it! You wanted to know? I killed gencies so she could respond all those guys by injection." and attract the attention of Welch said it is practically peers and James Perrault, her impossible for so many patienl'i boyfriend who worked as a hos­with strong hearts to suffer car­pital security guard. diac arrests for no apparent 
In emergencies, Gilbert was reason Ile said that is like seen flirting with Perrault and "lightning striking not once, not pressing her body suggestively twice, not three times, but mul­
.against him, tiple times ...Ithe prosecu-in the same 1tor said. He ward -and
"All life ends. For the four 'said she men who died here. life all following 
o n c e this defen­
has simply come to
climbed atop dant." a patient an end." If the jurors and strad-convict dled him, Gilbert of
David Hoose
apparently murder, they
defense attorney
to display a must decide garter belt in a separate to Perrault. penalty phase 
The prosecutor displayed whether she should get the photographs of the patients on death penalty or life in prison several oversized television without parole. monitors around the court­Massachusetts last executed room. He then showed the jury an inmate in 1947 and has not a vial of adrenaline and said had capital punishment since Gilbert "transformed this drug the state's highest court struck from a drug of life into a drug down the death penalty in 1984 of death, solely for her own during an attempt by prosecu­personal, selfish pleasures." tors to bring the death penalty 
Adrenaline is usually used to against three men accused of restore a normal beat to a gunning down a state trooper. stalled heart, but when used "There's something deeply incorrectly can make the heart unsettling about seeing a federal race. capital trial in a state that has 
Welch said that each man said no to that," said Ann had a normally functioning Lambert, a lawyer for the state heart when he ~ntered the branch of the American Civil intensive care unit and that Liberties Union. The ACLU Gilbert tried to cover her tracks opposes the death penalty. 
Moon's Mankind and Extra-Terrestrials 
Stanley L. Jaki 
AHungarian-born Catholic priest ofthe Benedictine Order, is Distinguished University Professor 
at Seton Hall University, South Orange, New Jersey. With doctorates in theology and physics, he 
has for the past forty ye.m specialized in the history and philosophy ofscience. The author of 
almost forty books and over ahundred articles, he served as Gifford Lecturer at the University of 
Edinburgh and as Fremanlle Lecturer at Balliol College, Oxford. He has lectured at major 
universities in the United States, Europe, and Australia. Heis honorary member ofthe Pontifical 
Academy ofSciences, membre correspondant ofthe Academie Nationale des Sciences, 
Belles-Lettres et Arts ofBordeaux, and the recipient ofthe Lecomte du Nouy Prize for 1970 and 
ofthe Templeton Prize for 1987. 
4pm, Monday, November 27 Hesburgh Library Lounge 

since the 1980s. illnesses that ultimately killed 
Associated Press 
Kristen Gilbert, 33, of them. Setauket, N.Y., is accused of "All life ends," he said. "ForSPRINGFIELD, Mass. 
murdering four patients at the the four men who died here, life
A nurse murdered four 

Veterans Affairs Medical Center has simply come to an end."
patients at a veterans hospital 
in Northampton by injecting Hoose said investigators madebecause she liked the thrill of them with high levels of adrena­a scapegoat out of Gilbert, andmedical emergencies and want­line. She is also accused of try­suggested her colleagues turned ed to impress her boyfriend, a ing to kill three other patients. against her because they sided 
prosecutor said in opening 
Defense attorney David Hoose with her husband in a divorce. 
statements Monday in said that all the patients who Massachusetts banned the 
Massachusetls' first capital case died were suffering from serious death penalty in 1984. This is a 


FORTUNE COOKIE 
fo·fr your JIUS 1c 

Slightly different music 
~-----------,-·--J 

(because you're slightly different). 

MEDI 
PLAY® 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the 5tore nearest you, 

Sale ends December 2, 2000.
Join Replay:
call toll.free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
The club that rewords your 

Cas,;ette• available 
love of entertommenl. • 
MediaPlay.conT 

on sDled titles, 
Ask oswc,ate lor de~nl! 
Prk&,,s..wy.,.,..,..,,.,,.•. 
827901 5999 



VIEWPOINT 
page l 0 Tuesday, November 21, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Norrt Dam,. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre D,ime. IN 4655(, 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Laue 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR O1'EKATI0NS M,'NAGEK Christine Kraly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smirh SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY\ EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Eli1aheth Lang 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYHEMS ADMINl~TKATOR: Mike Gunville WEIi ADMINl~"TRATOR: Ad.im Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAJ'HICS EDITOR: Jose Cut:llar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL (NfO........... 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 A.DVERTISING ....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME ...................631-454 I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews.I@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SrORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.. .................................................... 631-4540 
observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"S .............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0 ........................................................631-8767 SYHEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:l!ohserver.11dedr, for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associa red Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-1he 
movies/music for 
1ninute fOrecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for p<Jlicies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives co search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
co meet the editors and 
August 1999 
scaff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Maiy's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right co refuse aJvercisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assis ram Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries. leuers and columns present the views of the aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions ch rough lecrers is encouraged. Lctcers to the Editor muse be signed and must include conracr information. 
Q"miom regarding Observer polities shouU be dire,·t­rd to Edi1or it1 ChitfMikr Connolly. 
I think therefore I am ••• what? 
Does anyone else reali:z:e we are all make the decision to go days without lege is just something you do if you feel insane'! I'm talking loopy-loo-put-me-in­showering because our class and study the nCP.d and being individuals. we all do a straightjacket nuts. And finally, I've schedule does not allow the time to do things differently. For some. it's a natur­found the reason why. I'm a college stu­so. al progression of sorts. I honestly don't dent. This mental state comes with the I decided to search why other people I know what I would have done had I not territory. know went to college. Their answers gone to college (except maybe live out 
Think about it. were surprising, though not abnormal. my dream from when I was live years
Molly
Think about all the Well, not really. "It's been ingrained in old and wanted to be a Jewel check-out ridiculous things Strzelecki my head since I was little," "It's _____ clerk) and I guess that is really why you or J have done what comes between high I'm here -to figure out what I in our time here school and marriage," "It want to do. (I'm open to sug­and I do not mean Growing Up to was either go to college or gestions. by the way.) at parties or the pay rent," "Well. when I Taking a look back at all
Be a Kid
like. I mean only was little, other kids my classes, all the things college students played house and I I've done, in and out of would think it was played college dorm the classroom. and my
(9

absolutely OK to stay up until the wee room," "Beers and \. whole college "experi­hours of the morning studying our chicks." cnce," I've realized brains out for a test and then do the So where does that I am. indeed. same thing again two nights later. this leave mo? Still r.;;;.,.---, nuts. My mental Looking back on my past years here, I lost as to why I state at times is not had a revelation. A breakthrough. An 
went to college l..---------1 so hot and there 
epiphany. if you will. That test I had last and why anyone arc wct1ks when I week that I walked into knowing nothing goes to college. I _..__1.::~::::::::;ri question everyday and walked out of as if I had just been guess it could be that I'm here. held hostage for the last 50 minutes ... it because a higher -If' you can live won't matter in 10 years. education can give through that scnsP 
Hell, it won't matter next year when you a better job you get every once
*~ 1JJ; I 
I'm in the "real world" and will (hopeful­ly) have a job. I highly doubt that a per­spective employer is going to question 
E:~~~r£'." ~ ~~~:~ r~~1~~}~~it:i~1hy
how my test grade was the week of people who did that {,~ down the reason you November whatever. If they do care, and never went to ' J 'J are in college is then I am telling you now. I'm in trouble. college. And think of I because you love to
ti //}
And 30 years down the line in my job the people who tried '\1..----n learn. then it will be 
that I will hopefully have. it really won't college and it simply OK. It's a love of know-matter, because by that point it probably was not their bag and ~ ing all there is to know will not matter if I even went to college. they still wound up doing 0~ about a subject that makes 
So why do we go to college anyway? whatever it was they want-~~~ you want to forgo your pil-Some people say it's because it's the best ed to do to live out their low and blankets and skip four. five or six years of your life. To dream. Think of the fact that just -......:::_ _. "Law & Order," just so you can which I say. if the best times these peo­because you have a degree does not learn more about your passion, ple had were crammed into a short four entitle you to your dream job or any job whether it be English, Biology or year period, then they lead sad, sad for that matter. If that's the way it's Marketing. If you love it. you do question lives. Because I, for one. do not plan on going to be. then I'm going to sell back it sometimes. Especially since learning letting the memorable and fantastic my books now and take the 12 dollars can occasionally really suck. But we do times I have had over the years come to and go see a movie. I'm hoping, howev-always come back for more. It's a screeching halt on May 19. 2001. er, my B.A. in English will mean some-inevitable. Think about it. You may not 
Considering some 15 million people thing more than the 'x' amount of dollars realize it now, but you like it. You may arc enrolled in colleges and universities spent on an education, a constant cough even love it. You may even want some across the country and about 9.4 million and cold because my body is too weak more of it. of these people are under the age of 25, from lack of sleep to fight the sniffies there must be some good reason why we anymore and the knowledge that if you Molly Strzelecki is a senior writing do this. Why. after 12 years of learning pull an all-nighter, Papa John's stops major at Saint Mary's College. She can we choose to go on for at least another delivering at 2 a.m. and "Law & Order" be e-mailed at strz7359@saintmarys. four. Why we voluntarily stay up late comes on at 4 a.m. on A&E. edu. //er column appears every other and get up early to make the best grades I am in no way a philosophy major and Tuesday. we possibly can. Why we push ourselves I do not have all the answers. One The views expressed in this column are to be at the top of our class. Why we answer I can come up with is that col-those ofthe author and not necessarily 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Princes of Babylon rock Senior Bar 
On behalf of Student Union Board (SUB) and the Princes Having recently opened for the likes of Bela Fleck and of Babylon, we would like to extend our deepest thanks to Leftover Salmon, the band returns to its alma mater for an all those who attended the band's show last Saturday at all ages show. Senior Bar. Being the third installment of our monthly Loft Again, many thanks to everyone who made Saturday's Show series, the Philadelphia band treated the enthusiastic show an absolute blast. crowd with over two hours of its unique blend of rock. blues and hip-hop. The Princes of Babylon were very grateful and Emmett Malloy impressed by the support of the ND community. Jenn Zatorski 
Please be sure to check out the next Loft Show, SUB Campus Entertainment Umphrey's McGee on Nov. 30 at LaFortune Ballroom. November 19. 2000 
DILBERT 
MY NAME. IS WALLY 
AND I'LL BE. YOUR 
ENGINEER. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
I'LL JUST 
DO YOU 

HAVE A 
WANT TECH­
SARCASM NICAL 
WITH THAT? 
REVIEW. 
\ 

~ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The education of a man is never complete until he dies." 
Robert E. Lee Civil War general 
.----------------­
Tuesday, November 21, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Combating obscene phone calls 
I'm writing to all the women at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and anywhere they may reside, whether they own a tele­phone or not. The Bell Telephone Company has on request a brochure that instructs all of us and especially women, how to react to obscene phone calls and the like. 
The timely brochure instructs us how to react to such calls. When one receives such a phone call whether it be harassing, obscene, threatening, intimidating, threats to one's life or property. bomb threats, threats, threats to inflict bodily harm or injury, threats of kidnapping or just any type of threat. 
We are instructed by Bell's brochure that when such calis are received, we should "hang up immediately," (Don't tarry with this criminal individual), note the time. the date and the day, call the police. whether campus security or South Bend Police, and follow their instructions to the letter. Thev are experienced at this kind of criminal behavior. Some · people are afraid to be rude and may carry on a conversa­tion. The more one talks. the more this individual will harass you. Don't listen. but as I mentioned before, hang up immediately without delay. 
My nephew Doug who is employed by the Bell Telephone Company remarked to me that Bell receives thousands of such calls each day in the U.S.A. Pass the word along. 
Brother Edward V. Courtney, C.S.C. Columba Hall November 16, 2000 

VIEWPOINT 
~HE
vnSERVER page 11 
Women's soccer enjoys 
support 

=================================================================================================================================== 

-

+ 
+ 
­


Progress at our 'rape-prone' school 
Let's talk about rape. I take that back. Let's talk about why we don't talk about rape. 
This editorial is not belated, because we must make sure that sexual assault awareness, as relat­ed to this campus, Brittany lasts longer than Morehouse one week. 
Last Monday, anthropologist and 
It's All About 

rape researcher 
Anthropology

Peggy Sanday informed the stu­dent body of her dis­coveries about rape occurrences at uni­versities. The next day I was talking to a friend, senior Eric Glass and mentioned her lecture. Before I could summarize her findings, Eric interrupted me. "I bet this campus is the perfect example of a 'rape-prone' campus," he said. I was shocked. Not because of what Eric said. but because if you ask Peggy Sanday, Glass is right. l-ler description of a "rape­prone" campus was frighteningly close to Domer-home. 
Let's look at Sanday's criteria for clas­sifying a "rape-prone" campus: Importance of athletics (at Notre Dame ... what?), binge drinking (no way, Molly's is much better than Bridget's!), emphasis on all-male groups (130 years as an all­male school is a short period of time!), homophobia (didn't they just pass that new policy?) and administration and reli­gious stances that tend to promote silence (um ... am I going to Res Life for this?)_ 
It is understandable that one might feel the subject of sexual assault isn'l applica­ble enough to be a hot topic at Notre Dawri, but there are new ways to consid­er rape that expand its operational defin­ition. The "stranger in the bushes" cliche is seldom apropos these days. In fact, stranger rape on college campuses is almost nonexistent. A~quaintance rape, on the other hand, incorporates many types of incidents that are strongly con­nected to campus life, such as the friend­ly stranger at a party scene. the casual friend scene and even the dating scene. 
No matter whether a woman suffers stranger rape or acquaintance rape, the psychological effects on her are devastat­ing. In fact, those who feel their negative sexual experience doesn't constitute rape "are just as likely to suffer from psycho­logical distress as those who name their experiences rape," reports Martin D. Schwartz from Violence Against Women. In other words, when a girl is too drunk to say no and is too confused the next morning to know if she consented, her mental suffering will not be any less than a girl who is raped by brute force. 
Enter the unfounded, ridiculous self­blame theory: the idea that women have no reason to claim rape because they couldn't control their own drinking. This argument is most dangerous when it comes from feminists. such as K. Roiphe, author of "The Morning After." Roiphe writes that "claims" for rape are basical­ly a defense mechanism. The publication of her book received lots of attention even though she has no proof for her statements and wrote this book while a graduatn student in English at Harvard University. In short, she's not a rape research expert and wasn't trained to be. It is indisputable that t)1e acquaintance factor and the self-blame factor are seri­ous points of concern for universities. 
Our dialogue on the subject is too limit­ed. "Rape should not be considered a woman's issue; it is a man's issue too," says Glass. Rape dialogue is assumed to be exclusive to a female forum. We can see other examples of this compartmen­talizing in, for example, our major party political platforms. When canvassing females, these platforms focus on "women's issues" -that is, domestic pol­icy and child care. Foreign policy, social security and weapon control are not con ­sidered "women's issues," as though women don't care about them or are too unworldly to participate in the debate! If rape were part ofthe larger, general forum, male awareness would surely decrease the likelihood of sexual assault. 
Talking can't help if talking isn't allowed. Are we sure of our own University's statistics? What we do know is still unclear. In 1998, Congress tough­ened the 1990 Clery Act requiring uni­versities to regularly post crime data. It added the potential fine for $25,000 for each unreported crime. However, if the cases are not handled in a court of law, they are not technically considered crimes. Almost every sexual assault case at this University is handled in the Office of Residence Life. Sanday pointed out that the expense of how the "image of the institution mattered" is alarming. 
In all fairness, the hush-hush treatment is a trend that happens at universities all over the country. "It is usually the senior administrators, not the campus police, who want to hide this stuff," says S. Daniel Carter, vice president of Security on Campus Inc. "No one wants to look bad. And no one wants to go first." This is no excuse for hiding the facts, howev­er. We shouldn't keep promoting the Myth of the Plawless Bubble. 
And again in all fairness, many rape survivors will not talk either. Sanday warned that silence is the worst thing of all. Victims need to look for help from the administration, newspapers, police, friends and courts or counselors. I will always remember a friend of mine who struggled with the negative labeling she received from others here because, first, she would not reveal the identity of her acquaintance on campus who raped her and, second, she did not fit the typical "victim" image. I did not know what more I could do except to listen and that was frustrating. 
What is most important is the progress we continue to try to make. And I do believe that we've come a long way. My stepfather was an R.A. for Flanner Hall in 1973, the year after women were first admitted to this University. His biggest dorm problem that year happened to be a rape case involving a male in his sec­tion and a female student. Although the charges were made on very good grounds and were proven, the male stu­dent suffered absolutely no consequences from the administration. Nothing hap­pened to him. Everything was handled behind closed doors and then swept under the rug. 
Proof of progress: the Office of Residence Life has wall-to-wall carpeting. 
Brittany Morehouse is a senior major­ing in American studies and anthropolo­gy. She is open to all post graduation offers and if anyone is interested in her services, she may be reached at Morehouse.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

--·-------------------------­

page 12 Tuesday, November 21, 2000 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Blink 182 finds success with mix of new and old 
likes of the Vandals, The band spent name. 
The Mark, Tom and

By BRIAN KORNMANN cunsiderable time overseas, particularly Dude Ranch Scene Music Critic in Australia. where it developed a very brought Blink 
Travis Show 

large fan base that would pay its divi­182 nation­Blink 182 has travelled an unusual dends over the next three years. Based wide success road to success within lhe music indus­on a growing reputation and overseas and airplay 
Blink 182 

try, and its latest album, The Mark, popularity, Cargo records signed Blink based on Tom and Travis Show, stands as a live to a oue album deal in early 1995. songs such as 
MCA Records 

collaboration of its mu sical and Cheshire Cat was released in late 1995. "Dammit," comedic efforts along the way. and for the first time, the band gained "Untitled" Formed in 1991 by friends Mark national exposure within the United a n d Hoppus and Tom Delonge. the San States. College radio picked up on the "Voyeur." 
Rating 

Diego punk trio dev·etopcd a rapid release and the album became a mod­The band underground following based on their erate success. Blink's big break, howev­gained even 
....:...,,

insane live shows and raw energy. The er, would not come until later. more national baud's hard work in the underground In 1997, MCA records decided tu sign exposure punk scMe led to a friendship with the Blink to a record contract, specifically spending con-very Blink-esqe punk icons, Vandals'. because of the band's huge popularity secutive years on the Vans Warped Perhaps its best feature is the exces­Under the Vandals supervision, Blink in Austr_alia. Because the name Blink Tour and tours with Punk-Ska main­sively crude, vulgar and disgusting released ils first album. Buddha. on already belonged to an Irish band, the stays Less Than Jake. commentary made by the band cassette only in 1994. band decided to re-christen itself as Between appearing in American Pie throughout the album. From guest 
Following the release or Buddha, Blink 182, and in late 1997. released and working on their third album, appearances, such as the voice of Blink began touring heavily with the the album Dude Ranch under the new Enema of the State, Blink 182 kept busy S_atan, to repeated rcquosts !'or crowd nudity and bowel function wisecracks.
for the next two years which lead 
the release capturns the hilarity thatup to the release of the band's 
has always been associated with Blinkfourth album, 182's live show. 
The Mark. 
On the other hand,

Tom and 
For a live album. The Mark, 
one decided weak­

Travis Show. 

Tom and Travis Show is ness ol' the album is
The album is captured about as good as it comes. its over relianrn on 
the nower. watered­

from 1999 The release captures Blink's 
down, pop-punk

live shows in 
sound very well and also Blink 182 songs
both San 
Francisco does an excellent job ofcon­from Enema of' thl' State. Among many
and Los veying the raw energy ofa 
Blink 182 rans,Angeles and Blink I 82 show Enema is recognized

mainly fea­
as the band's weak­

tures songs 
est release becausP

from Enema of the State. inter­of' its poppy nature and (thanks to themixed with some songs off both wonders of' Carson Daly and TRL) gross
Dude Hanch and Cheshire Cat. 
national overexposure.
The album also contained the 
Overall, the album is good but doespreviously unreleased track Man not stack up to the live albums releasedOverboard. 
by the Pixies, NOFX, Less Than Jake orFor a live album, The Mark, Pearl Jam in recent years. Nonetheless.
Tom and Travis Show is about as the album will appral to both hardcore
good as it comes. The release 
fans and to the newer Blink 182 fans ascaptures Blink's sound very well well. For fans who have some money toand also does an excellent job of spare and consider themselves a fan· of'conveying the raw energy of a Blink 182, The Mark, Tom and TravisBlink 182 show. 
Show would not be a bad investment. 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Reflection embodies next step for hip-hop 

porting the intelligence of its underground counter­·. day hip-hop died?/ ls it too early to mourn, is it too Rebels," a track tinged by HI-TEK, with a reggae part at the same time. Reflection Eternal showcases late to ride?" feel. Also, the angelic voices of the French duo, Les Kwcli's concern with black consciousness, history Here, he argues that there is a definite inconsis­Nubians. soften the well-written "Love Language," 
and enlightenment. III-TEK employs an eclectic tency in today's rap and also subtlely positions him­which preaches the universality of love and emo­range of' beats and scratches for each track, making self in the "neutral" category of an underground tion. the album a mosaic of themes and sounds. artist who is commercially well received but not Although those music fans that fall squarely with­The album begins with "Move Something," in quite mainstream. in either of Kweli's aforementioned categories ­
which Kweli dismisses other rappers, proclaiming, This status allows artists such as Mos Def, extreme commercial or radical underground -may 'To be continued/ Let's see what's on the menu run Pharoah Monch, Dilated Peoples and Common, sleep on this album. there is something to be said up in you/ Lyrics that b11 fu .."*n with you in the among others, to rest comfortably with their fame about riding the line. Talib and 111-TEK have suc­mental/ Pick any mcntaL instru, funda, detri, extra, and success without feeling that they have sold out cessfully combined the lyricism and enlightenment extra large... " or that they have foolishly diminished the quality of of underground rap with some of the beats and 
Here, I-II-TEK's production complements Kweli's their music for popularity's sake. themes of more mainstream artists. style and delivery perfectly, emphasizing the force In keeping in line with the trend of hip-hop col­Ultimately, they create an album that could easily and magnitude of his words. laborations, Kweli seeks the aid of the highly spark a revolutionary change in the blatant stratifi­
On the exceptional "This Means You," Talib and esteemed group De La Soul to energize "Soul cation of music and status in the hip-hop world. 

Mos Def, his partner from the Rawkus­By ADRIENNE THOMPSON 
born duo Black Star, display their Scene Music Critic 
inherent chemistry and artistic compat­
ibility. Where Mos Def is forceful and 
Mas-ter·piece \'mas-ter-pes\ n: an outstanding loud, Kweli is subdued and composed. work of' art or craft; something superlative of its Their verbal exchanges include numer­kind. ous allusions to the boroughs of New 
York. childhood memories and their The simple, succinct definition above speaks vol­superior skills. HI-TEK employs the umes about Heflection Eternal, the latest album Ooating beauty of strings, making the from Hawkus H.ecords featuring lyricist Talib Kwcli track all the more perfect. 
and producer DJ HI-TEK. As major members of the Next is the haunting "Too Late," in unique mainstream/underground scene wh\ch, which Kweli questions the present sta­according to Kweli, is "[breaking] the surface quite tus of hip-hop, saying, "Nowadays rap like an alligator nose," this duo has successfully artists corning half-hearted/ detached itself from the blatant repetitiveness and Commercial l.ike pop or underground foolishness present in commercial rap today, sup­like black markets/ When~ were you the 

Tuesday, November 21, 2000 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Forever abandons 'girl power' for lame imitation 
By TIM BODONY Scene Music Critic 
A picture is worth a thousand words, or in this case, a thousand notes. True to that rule, the cover of the new Spice Girls album, Forever, says more about the state of affairs in Spiccworld than the actual music does. No color. No more Village People-esque profiling giving each girl an identity. No marauding enthusiasm. No Geri. Nope, nothing but bland black attire and lorced smiles (no teeth from Posh, as pnr usual). 
The same holds true for the music. Forever is a failed attempt at maturity that lacks the adolescent and playful energy of the Spice Girls' first release, Spice. Where that album set trends, ·or at least instilled the virtues of "girl power," Forever merely mimics pop styles that have sold well in recent years. 
Much of the blame for. this album reslS with il'i blatantly money-chasing produc­ers. But what are the Spice Girls if not an overly produced marketing ploy? It has been this way from the start. These ladies did not meet in the smoky back room of' a London jazz club -they answered a cast­ing t:all put out by the London entertain­ment publication, The Stage. The ad read: "R.U. 18-23 with the ability to sing/dance? 
B.U. streetwise, outgoing, ambitious and dedicated?" Feeding off the burgeoning hormones of adoleseent boys, as well as the naivete of young girls searching for role models, thP. Spice Girls project did quite well after it hit American shores in 1996. 
Though inherently contrived and artifi­cial. the Spice Girls was fun and entertain­ing -all that a group of this type should be. It didn't matter that the girls lacked tal­ent or creative ideas of their own: as long as their producers and managers stuck to the game plan, everything went well. But now these producers have led the band painfully astray. Forever tries desperately to build a new image for the Spice Girls, vainly relocating the band to the world of adult contemporary and modern R&B. Exi.led from their original image, the Spice Girls is no longer spicy. And thanks to three years of tabloid-filling escapades, tl1ey are no longer girls. 
The album's naughtiest and worst track, "If You Wanna Have Some Fun," clearly portrays this transformation. As always, our heroines are looking for some action. But instead of announcing their desire to "zig-a-zig-ahh," they ask an unknown and apparently attractive male: "Tell me, do you like the rudest stuff?" Mel B's forays 
into child­bearing and 
m a r r ­
iage/divorce cycles sud­denly make sense. To make matters worse, Scary needlessly interjects the phrase "In a rub a dub style" in the song's rap 

.. 
interlude. 

Fortunately, Bob Marley is not alive to hear this. Unfortunately, the rest of us are. 
The beautiful irony of Forever is that it openly judges itself. 
The lyrics repeatedly snow signs of seU'­awareness, with the Spicers trying to justi­fy their continued existence at some times, and practically calling out for help at oth­ers. "Right Back at Ya" tries to plead their case, insisting that "there've been tears along the way/ But we're still the best of friends" and that they are "not forgetting the days when we were all wannabes." 
But the music fails to validate these claims. Far from vigorously asserting their return to pop dominance, this song hits about as hard as a plastic hammer. 

The best revelations surface in the song "Tell Me Why," a face-lift of just about every Janet Jackson song ever written, yet still admittedly catchy. The girls cry out "tell me why oh why did we end up this way," and if the references to Ginger's departure were not already apparent enough, then merely listen on: 'Tell me why/ Did you feel you couldn't stay/ But we could have stayed together/ But you want­ed it this way." That pretty much sums it up. 
FEATURE COLUMN 
Ben Folds Five bids fond farewell to music scene 
A lew weeks ago, Ben Folds Five, J-\.arguably the most underrated band of the 90s, decided to call it quits. 
The piano-powered rock trio from Chapel Hill. N.C. said they have accom­
plished as much as they could as a band, and after sLx great vears of music, it is time to move on. The three individuals (Ben Folds on piano, Darren Jessee on drums. and Robert Sledge on bass) 


already have solo pro-Geoffrey Rahie jects on the horizon. including Folds' debut solo album due out 
Scene Music

this spring. 
Writer

The news came as a shock to the hard-core fans who enjoyed the band's stellar albums and incredible live shows. Although they really only had one radio hit in the single "Brick," Ben Folds had a loyal fan base that packed dubs across the nation. Supposedly, Sony/550 was less than excited by the low sales of the latest album. The band's songs appar­ently lacked marketing appeal, despite the presence of Folds' catchy transitions in nearly every tune. 
ll is a shame that lhe band could not continue for a few more years, but let's be honest, Ben Folds Five was not going to attract a huge amount of fans anytime soon, especially since its only radio hit occurred nearly three years ago. 
Isaw this band as a group of'visionaries. I never purchase u compuct disc until I have heard at least three tracks from the album and have a good sense of what the band is about. This was not the case with Whatever and Ever Amen by Ben Folds Five. I read a review of the disc by colum­nist Brian McCoUum in Tho Detroit free Press back in 1997. I got a strange, happy feeling from the review and decided to purchase the album without hearing any of the tracks. v\'hen the frantic opening piano line from "One Angry Dwarf and 200 Solemn Faces" raided my bedroom. I immediately fell in love with the band. I couldn't believe what I was hearing. There were three men making this gigantic sound that just wouldn't let up. 
The entire album captivated me. Isoon saw my first show on the Horde Tour that summer and was equally amazed by the band. Two albums and five shows later, !3en Folds Five is still one of my favorite bands. Folds called its music "punk rock for sissies." Well. I am definitely a sissy then. 
Although the band is history, there's no reason that the men of Ben Folds Five should be forgotten. They produced some of the most original music of the 90s, and recognition is certainly in order. lfyou have never heard the band before, check out its catalog. I have included a summary of a11 four releases and even give a descrip­tion of one amazing live show. 
Ben Folds Five (1995) 

The band's debut album was an inde­pendent success selling well over 200,000 in its limited release. Notable tracks include the anthemic "Philosophy," the peppy "Where's Summer B" and the live favorite "Underground." The closing track, "Boxing," has since been covered by Bette Midler. 
Overall. the album provides a great introduction to Ben Folds Five. The songs on this disc showcase the band's spontane­ity and playfulness. The quintessential "The Last Pulka" basically sums up the band's ability to create thoughtful music v,/ithout a hesitance to rock hard with a piano. bass and drums. 
Whatever and Ever Amen (1997) 
This album will be remembered as the effort that brought Ben Folds Five to the forefront of modern rock. forget the hit "Brick." This major label debut twists from angst with "Song for the Dumped," to puppy love in "Kate," to lost dreams in "Smoke." The delicate "Selt1ess Cold and Composed" always makes me think of the first time I saw them play live and will always put me in a trance. 
Caleb Southern's production technique !Al" thA band act like children and adults at the same time. Song sequences and transi­tions are all aligned perfectly, making this album one-of-a-kind. This disc will always be the band's most commercially success­ful. Whatever and Ever Amen was both accessible and magnificent. 
Naked Baby Photos (1998) 
This collection of B-sides. live rarities and previously unreleased studio material was a big hit with the super fans, but ignored by the mainstream consumers. The collection on this album reveals how the group evolved musically and also showcases its influences. "Eddie Walker" is as meaningful as it is tongue-in-cheek, and "Ernaline" forces the listener to basically laugh at relationships. 
The goofy live tracks, including "Satan is My Master" and "The Ultimate Sacrifice," are very entertaining and succeed in show­ing these musi­cians' sense of hwnor. "For Those ofY'all Who Wear Fannie Packs" is a hilarious, impromptu rip on rap music that never gets old. This album is a must for hard-core fans. 
The Unauthorized Biography of Reinhold Messner 
(1999) 

Reinhold Messner was the band's crowning achievement. Although the album was still piano-based, the band experimented with a wide array of key­boards and new sounds. A string section and even a horn section found its way into the mix with "Don't Change Your Plans," "Army" and ·"Lullabye." 
This release was the closest Ben Folds Five got to a concept album. Reinhold Messner is the real name of a man who scaled Mt. Everest, but it is far from being about him. The disc is more about the typi­cal male that has problems dealing with relationships, career and even himself. "Don't Change Your Plans" might be the best Ben Folds Five song of all time, and "Army" proved that they could still rock. The Darren Jessee penned "Magic" explores the loss of loved ones, and "Mess" discusses low self-esteem. This release may be the best album of 1999. All in all. the band's best work. 
The Live Performances 
Ben Folds Five was not a jam band. It was simply a great live band that injected its album tunes with energy. The first time I saw the band back in 1997. l couldn't believe what was going on. Here were these three nerdy guys armed with a piano, bass and drums, jumping up and 
down on stage. 
There were no 
fancy lights, 
electric guitars 
or corporate 
sponsorship ­
just amazing 
music in its most 
raw form. Of 
course, the band 
would play a 
healthy dose of 
its album mater­
ial along with 
the favorite 
"Theme From 
Dr. Pyser." A 
wide range of 
covers included 
the hilarious 
"She Don't Use 
Jelly," "Video 
Killed the Radio 
Star" and 
"Frecbird." 

Every other time Isaw the boys perform there was the same result: The crowd would go absolutely nuts and I would be in another world. I have orten told people that Ben Folds Five could play the exact same set every night and I would still go to the show beeause it really wasn't about the songs themselves. It was more about three friends having a good time doing what they loved to do and sharing their experiences with new friends they would meet along the way. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 21, 2000 
FOOTBALL 
Notre Dame travels to California, dreaming of BCS bowl 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sport• Wntcr 
A possible Bowl Champ-ion­ship Series bowl hangs in the balance as lhe Irish travel to Los Angeles to battle the USC Trojans Saturday. But a chance to win in the Coliseum for the first time since 1992 and lock up that BCS bid isn't the only reason the Irish are anxious to hop on a piano to the West Coast. 
"This is crazy weather out there," senior captain Dan O'Leary said after Monday's indoor practice in the Loftus Sports Center. "I love the snow. I am from Cleveland and everything like that, but it is going to be nice to get out to California and the warm weather." 
Despite California's perpetu­ally warm weather, the Irish havt~ received a cold reception l'rom the Trojans on their last three trips west. In 1994, the 
Men of Troy snapped an  11­ 
game losing streak with a  17 - 
17 tie.  

The Trojans ended their 13­game winless streak against the Irish when Notre Dame returned irt 1996. USC won 27 ­20 in overtime and ended Notre Dame's chances for a BCS bowl. The loss to USC also ended Lou lloltz's career at Notre Dame. 
Bob Davie led the Irish back to L.A. with a BCS bid on the line in 1998. but without start­ing quarterback Jarious Jackson. the offense sputtered as Notre Dame was shutout for the first time since 1987, 10-0. 
O'Leary remembers the dejected feeling he had walk­ing off the field in 1998, but said the past will not play a part in Saturday's game. 
"It was pretty disturbing Hos­ing in 1998) but we don't like to look too much to the past," the fifth-year senior said. "What's done is done. We have USC this week and we're not going to make the same mis­takes we made in '98." 
Davie emphasized that the 2000 Irish are not the same as the teams that haven't won in LA since 1992. 
"This is an entirely different team," he said. "We are going to enjoy tbis game and ei:ijoy the preparation for this game. I am jacked about this one and l know our team will be." 
This year's match-up appears to be a mismatch. USC is unranked with a 5-6 record and no chance for a bowl bid. Notre Dame enters the game ranked No. 11 in the latest BCS standings. If the Irish win, they should be eligible for a BCS bowl and will most likely be selected for either the Fiesta or Sugar bowls. A loss would send the Irish back to the Gator Bowl in Jacksonville, Fla. 
The Irish are not concerning themselves with the BCS impli­cations of the game or the his­tory of the series. O'Leary said they are completely focused on this week's game and this week's game alone. 
"We can't control what hap­pens with [the BCSJ so we are just trying to control what we can right now," he said. "We've got USC. It's our last game of the season. We are just focusing on the things we can control -the way we play, the way we focus and the way we execute. After that game we will talk about the BCS." 
In addition to the BCS-hopes dashing upsets in 1996 and 1998. USC has typically played the Irish tough as underdogs. In the 13 games where a ranked Notre Dame team took on an unranked USC team, the Trojans won six times and tied twice. 
Leading the Trojan upset bid this year is sophomore quar­terback Carson Palmer. Palmer rushed for a 2-yard touchdown in USC's 1998 win. Palmer was red-shirted in 1999 after breaking his collarbone in the third game of the season and missed the Notre Dame game. 
Despite starting just 19 games, Palmer is the fifth-lead­ing passer in USC history. This year Palmer has completed 
55.5 percent of this passes while throwing for 2,663 and 14 touchdowns. Palmer is prone to the interception, how­ever, as he has tossed 16 on the season. With starting cor-


Senior Joey Getherall breaks loose from a Rutgers tackle and scores a touchdown. He played 
an key role in the Irish victory over the Scarlet Knights. 
nerback Shawn Walton out and top reserve Clifford Jefferson slo·wed by an injury, Palmer could pose a stiff test to the depleted Irish secondary. 
Palmer will hand off to sophomore tailback Sultan McCullough who has rushed for more than 1,000 yards and scored six touchdowns this year. 
Sophomore Kareem Kelly leads the USC receivers with 51 catches and three touch­downs in 2000. He was named to the Freshman All-American team in 1999 and can stretch defense with his speed. 
On the defensive side of the ball, the Trojans are one of the better run-stopping teams in the country giving up just 110 yards per game on the ground. Tackles Ennis Davis and Ryan Nielsen have combined for 68 tackles, six sacks and two forced fumbles. 
Zeke Moreno leads the defense from his middle line­backer position with 89 tack­les, three sacks and two fum­ble returns for touchdowns. 
The USC secondary is a weaknesses this year as both starters from 1999 have been injured for all or part of the 2000 season. All-American Antuan Simmons has missed the entire season after under­going surgery to remove a tumor in May. Darrell Rideaux, Kevin Arbet and Chris Cash have filled in for Simmons in his absence. The other starter, Kris Richards, has been slowed by a knee injury for most of 2000. 
The Irish do not enter the game injury-free either. Senior tight end Jabari Holloway will miss the game with a sprained knee. Davie hopes Holloway will return for the bowl game. 
If the Irish manage to break their losing streak in the Coliseum Saturday, Davie can sec only one possible destina­tion for the Irish -a BCS bowl. 
"If we were 9 and 2, you are darn right I think we deserve to go. I think there would be a bunch of people that would like to have us because we are an improving team," he said. "If you look at our football team a month from now which is when those BCS bowl games are played, we are going to be a darn good football team. A month from now. with the young players we have and quarterback who now has what amounts to a spring wall, and getting all our players healthy. we will be a pretty good football team a month from now." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT, 4,5,6 bdrm, turn, sec.syst, w/d. Lost: a men6s brown Jacket. If Resumes, Business Cards, joining the official Notre Dame FOR RENT PRIME Locations. Util. Included. found, please call 246-1558. NOTICES Laminating & Morel mullet club. Call Tyler or Kurt for 233-9947. Thank you. At details. 
Shout out to the P.E. girls... Mary, THE COPY SHOP HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 Rose, Rachel, Lisa and Beth. You Lafortune Student Center T-Dawg and Dan ... you guys know 4/5 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus. 5 bdrm. 2 bath, completely gals know how to party. Phone 631-COPY how to throw a phat party! 
WANTED

773-486-8822 remodeled 8/00, new: furnace, -JimmyF. Free Pick-Up & Delivery! 
roof, carpet, appl., W/D, security Amanda Panda-thanks for the 
& more. Home is on 3 lots. Alum Retail positions available at UP patience. Hope the car didn't get 3,4 & 6 BDRM HOMES. FURN. owned, must see. 240-0322 Mall NO PLANS FOR THE HOLIDAYS? towed. NOW & 2001-02. 272-6306. Jason. 20 seasonal.sales associates NEW YEAR'S? Looking for a unique gift? Bring 
needed Vacation In Chicago for in 12 of your favorite pictures Full & Part time positions avail• $22/nlght. Stay at Hostelling Int'! and we'll make a 2001 color copy Prediction: Kings to win the 
Seeking creative, energetic able Chicago. Call 312/360-0300. calendar that is sure to be appre-West. HOUSES FOR RENT provider to care for 2 children in Flexible hrs. for your conve-www.hichicago.org. ciated. 2001-2002 my Granger home. 20-25 hrs/wk. nience THE COPY SHOP When's the snowball fight? 10 BEDROOMS-Call 277-1622. Avg. $7-$18/hour LaFortune Student Center 4 BATHS Outgoing personality, sales Happy Thanksgiving from The 3 KITCHENS experience a plus VOTE FOR NOTRE DAME IN EARN $$$$at Observer staff 
340-3761 TOURNEY OF TRADITIONS! Saint Mary's Madrigal Dinners 
LOST & FOUND

5 BEDROOMS Goto Theatrical performance requires Playstation football... 2 BATHS !Jtti;i:/lgro.mo.tiQrJl!,gQ,1iQmle§11al!!2 female servers/actresses on Dec. Leon: 42 wins GREAT FRONT PORCH LOST: MAN'S WEDDING RING IN i;titQ!ilfr!:rnt11ag11,hlml and vote for 1, 2, 3; S-11 p.m. (also 12-6 p.m. Kurt: Owins 
SOUTH DINING HALL AREA ON FOR SALE ND in ESPN.com's Tourney of on Dec. 3). BOTH HOUSES HAVE WASH-MONDAY, NOV. 13. PLEASE Traditions! Vote now for ND to Petey's likes... ERS, DRYERS AND ALARM SYS-Call KEITH AT 1-6147. advance through the top 16 to $6.25/hr-paid before Christmas Tater tots TEMS REWARD!! PHONE CARDS win No.1 for the school with the sleep 
$20 1558 MIN. best football tradition. While erin CALL KRAMER CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805 you're there, enter for a chance Are you a generally happy per-stay tuned for more to be added 234-2436 LOST: GOLD HEART & C.Z. to win a trip for up to 10 people son? Interested in joining the later OR CELL 274-1501. BRACELET AT ND-BC GAME, to the 2001 Tostitos Fiesta Bowl sunshine club? Call Leon at 4­
SECTION 32. GIFT TO MY WIFE, 1993 Ford Explorer (2 door) in Tempe, Arizona. Go ND! 4936 for details. Turner... loser... i hope you Newly remodeled 2-bdrm house HUGE SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF Manual 4-wheel drive bounce on 19775 Detroit St. Close to FOUND, PLESAE CONT ACT ME 66,000 miles GIimer Park. $600-tdeposit. Call @ DUBE.1@ND.EDU call: 784-8303 or 219-232-5557 High-Speed Copies, Color Do you have a mullet haircut? If Chuk and Noreen best friends 1 233-5285. Copies, Binding, Fax Service, so, you may be interested in and 1a 
. 
·-----------~-----------------------------, Tuesday, November 21, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
This Week in Campus Ministry Yesterday as I was walking up to the 
front door of Corby Hall, some
November 6-27 
thing caught my eye and I looked 
103 Hesburgh Library 
up. The trees had thinned to reveal a great 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #32 robin's egg blue niche at the top ofthe build­ing bearing a snow-white Madonna which I had not noticed in some time and had 
(Dec. 1-2, 2000) 
Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Fisher, Knott, 
nearly forgotten. After greeting her with a
Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford, Welsh Family 
barely audible "hi, Mom" I thought to 
myself: This is what I love about Notre 

Monday-Tuesday, November 20-21 
Dame, around every corner there is another little Catholic surprise-signs of the devo­
11 :30 pm-10:00pm 
tion which inspired the hands and hearts that built this place. At Notre Dame, we form 
St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
a community that is fascinated with and inspired by the pious oddities one encounters 
Eucharistic Adoration 
only in so Catholic a place as this. Ironically, these same expressions ofdevotion probably would not be included in the plans if Notre Dame were being built anew in our times. They are expressions of a piety which captures our imaginations but which the contem­
Tuesday, November 21, 7:00 p.m. 
porary mind does nor produce. The "attic'' ofCatholi-
Badin Hall Chapel 
cism is full ofsuch old furniture-devotions, doctrines,
Campus Bible Study 
practices, prayers, relationships, ideals. Much of this At Notre Dame, we form a 
furniture has collected a little dust. It could use some 
community that hfalcinated 
Tuesday, November 21. 7:00 p.m. 
polish and care to become once again the prized an­
tique in the parlor. with and impired by the piom
Siegfried Hall Chapel 
oddities one encounten only in
Confirmation-Session #5 
Iwas born in 1965, just as the Second Vatican Council was closing. Like almost everyone born rn Catholic aplace as thit 
Monday. November 27, 7:00-8:30 p.m. 
there after, I was raised in a thoroughly contem­
102 Earth Sciences 
porary Catholicism without memory of the "Old Church" as some call it. Like so many 
Basilica Community Choir Rehearsal 
of us of the post-conciliar era, I was not well formed in the mind of the church. Educa­tion in religion, or catechesis, was poor. My own grandmother, a convert, knew her catechism front and back. My childhood memorization repertoire never extended be­
Monday-Friday, November 27-December 1 
yond the Our Father. As an adult I have grown in my appreciation for the tradition ofthe
Hesburgh Library 
Church, but with a certain wariness as well. Catholicism when seen as something quaint 
Sign-up, Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #64 
or nostalgic, or merely cultural, becomes little more than a historical artifact. It loses its 
(Feb. 9-11, 2001) 
power to convey the Gospel. All of the trappings of Catholicism have one single pur­pose-to draw us into a relationship with Jesus and the Kingdom he preached and made real. It is my hope in this column to polish some of the old furniture in the attic by

Weekend Presiders 
drawing out the connections between the stuff of Catholicism and the Lord it seeks to 
reveal. 
Christ the King 

Please join in this column by sending your questions and suggestions to ministry. l@nd.edu. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS 
BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 

Celebrate 
Saturday, November 25 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 

This Sunday at the 11:45 am Mass in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart we will recognize those members ofthe Notre Dame community who are seeking to be become folly initiated into the Catholic faith community in the Rite ofWelcome. These men and women have met together the
Sunday, November 26 Mass 
past several months to explore their faith and the Catholic Church more deeply through the RC/A
10:00 a.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 

process. Catechumens seek foll initiation through the sacraments ofBaptism, Eucharist, and
11 :45 a.m. Rev. John A. Steele, c.s.c. 

Confirmation; Candidates are already baptized and seek to be received into Full Communion with the Catholic Church through the sacraments ofthe Eucharist and Confirmation. The Rite ofWelcome gives all ofus an opportunity to encourage these men and women as they continue 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR 
their journey ofinitiation in the months ahead. 
THIS COMING SUNDAY CATECHUMENS & their sponsors FRANKLIN HARKINS Sheila McCarthy MARCUS CAMPBELL Mark Coomes TAYLOR HEAPS Chris Reilly
1st Reading Dn 7: 13-14 
LISA HUDSON Christine Harding SOREN JOHNSON Caleb Congrove 
2nd Reading Rvl:5-8 
JAY JOHNSON Colleen Dunne KATIE LATSHAW Brendan Cox 
Gospel Jn 18: 336-37 
RYAN KENNY Megan Murphy MARK MATSON Rodrigo Morales 
CAITLIN MURRAY Pat Virtue MIKE MORGALIS Pat Millea 
JAMES RILEY Mirella Riley SARA OBERLIN Amy Schlatterbeck 
KRISTA ROBINETTE Brian Robinette NICOLAS PACELLI Christina Sullivan 
ANDREW POKER Jeanne-Nicole Saint-Laurent 

CANDIDATES & their sponsors HOPE RUIZ Mark Ruiz MATT BLANCETT Mary Beth Stryker JAMIE SCHEIDERER Jason Scheiderer GUETON CUBILLO Cindy Santana ELAINE SOSA-RAMIREZ Julie Vecchio 
KIERSTEN FERGUSON Becky Klein MIKE WELLS Carrie Strobel JULIE FOSTER Lisa Gutowski KATIE WILD Erin Flynn TISHA GREENSLADE Jill Perry KEN YOUNG Anthony Sieh ERIN GRISWOLD Tom Curtin
(2MPU5f\71lNl5TRY 
Prayer Opportunity 
112 Bodin Hall 631-5242 Join the Community Christmas Choir 103 Hesburgh library 631-7800 Share in a joyous evening ofmusic ana prayer email ministry.1@nd.edu for the Christmas Mianight Mass web www.nd.edu/~ ministry at the Basilica ofthe Sacrea Heart. March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center Rehearsal will be held on Mondays, beginning November z7th @ 7:00pm Call Andrew Mcshane, 631-5141 for more information. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 21, 2000 
CLUB SPORTS 

Women's water polo finishes 2-0-1 in preseason tuneup 
Special co The Observer 
Determined to improve upon its seventh place national rank­ing of a year ago. the women's water polo club hosted a prosca­sou round robin in Holfs Aquatics Center this past week­end. Nolre Dame defeated Bowling Green in the opener 9-4, tied Purdue 10-1 0 in the second round and throttled Northwestern in the weekend 
WARREN Hill 
Love Ufe 
CHRISTOPHER PARICENING 
Bernstein Concerto For Guitar 
CRAIG CHAQUICO 
Paoorama: The Best OF Craig Chaquica 
·. 
JAM MIAMI: A CELEBRATION Of LATIN JA'U. 
Various Arlis/5 
finale 17 -4. Twelve players scored to demonstrate the team's depth. 
Veterans such as junior cap­tain Liz Parolin, who firnd in seven goals, and Meg Daday, who not only played exceptional defense but also rocketed the ball into the net from six meters out, wern complemented by sev­eral promising freshmen. Vickie Barone played fierce defense, while fellow frosh Allison Gienko lit up the scoreboard with 10 goals. Added to the mix next semester will be last vear's lead­ing scorer, Lauren Kt1zniar, who is currently studying in London. 

The club will open Midwest Conference play in early February at Ohio University. 
Men's volleyball 
A short-handed volleyball club playing without several starters continued to show development and promise in the Back to the Hardwood Classic at Michigan State this weekend. 
In opening pool play, the Irish split four tightly contested three game matches, beating Iowa State and Lewis before succumb­ing to Northwestern and Hall State. The third place finish qualified the Irish for the Division 1 Silver tournament bracket in the 41-school field. 
The netters entered the tour­nament with only seven players and three regular starters. To 
start off the tournament, Notre Dame upset a highly regarded Kentucky squad despite drop­ping the first game. However, the club then lost its only setter and the now six-man squad. forced to put players into new positions, was unable to over­come Michigan. 
Outside hitter Adam Schrcinr's hitting and passing, coupled with Hob Smith's blocking and swing­ing and John Linzer's versatile play, kept the Irish competitive. 

LARA& REYES 
World Jazz 
GEORGE DUKE EUGE GROOVE 
Cool Euge Groove 
RONAN HARDIMAN 
Anthem 
' ·:..:,::=:.--,_, """''~· "'" .......... ,~.. 
·~.i•finl-... rlii't11i11 ~-h 11;.-,t \l\l~L,+>' ... >•i,0,i, dJ•~• ·.., llifn••m.:i~\,; ,ii!
JESSE COOK 
(ij;t;,,,:.,;.,,.,,il!a+••<iiill:.>i~,'l]ffltfiilful·''·;".'};~
Free Fall 

THE IRISH TENORS 
Live In Be/{mt 
The best jazz for the best price. 

STMCOLE THE MANHATTAN TRANSFER 
Between Us The Spirit Of St. Louis 






THE QUINCY JONES-SAMMY NESTICO ORCHESTRA Basie & Beyond 
ANONYMOUS4 1000: A Mass For The End Of Time 

MEDI 
PLAY® 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
DIANE SCHUUR 
Friends for Schuur 

Sale ends December 16, 2000. Cu55ette• available on ,elec;t titles. 828402 6128 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA or visit us online at www.MediaPlay.com.
Priting may vary anline. 
Tuesday, November 21, 2000 · The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Shoulder injury puts season on hold for Nixon 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Spom Writer 
Senior Carrie Nixon watched her teammates board the bus to Bloomington, Ind., Thursday as the women's swimming and div­ing team left on a weekend trip to the Indiana Invitational. Loaded down with heavy swim bags slung over their shoulders and high expectations for the competition, the squad left eager to compete in one of the biggest invitationals they would compete in during the regular season. 
Rut as the bus pulled away from campus, it left the senior sprinter and co-captain on the sidewalk. waving goodbye to a team that would compete with­out her. 
Nixon learned last week that she will not be competing with the women's team for the rest of the 2000-2001 season, after doc­tors discovered earlier this month that persistent shoulder pain was enough to require surgery. The surgery, completed Friday, Nov. 10, repaired a torn labrum, the soft tissue that con­nects the shoulder near the rota­tor cuff. The recovery period, estimated at four to six months, is long enough to knock Nixon out for the remainder of her senior season. 
"She's handled it extremely well," said Bailey Weathers, head coach. "It's hard to be as competitive of an athlete as she is and be out for any period of time. But she's probably han­dling this better than anyone I've ever been around." 
"I don't even know if it's hit me yet," Nixon said last week. "I think it hit me a little more when the bus left. because I couldn't be there swimming with or sup­porting the team because it was too soon after the surgery." 
Nixon, one of the most deco­rated swimmers in Notre Dame hi:;tory, came off the best season in her collegiate career last March by placing second in the SO-yard freestyle at NCAA Championships. Earlier in the season, she had earned the title of Big East Swimmer of the Year for her performances at the Big East Championships, where she helped lead the Notre Dame squad to its fourth consecutive conference title. Before return­ing to school in August, Nixon narrowly missed making finals at the Olympic Trials in Indianapolis, placing high expec­tations for a winning season in her final year with the Irish. 
But the co-captain. who had not competed yet this season to preserve her year of eligibility, will return next season as a fifth­year senior. And she doesn't mind putting this year on hold if it means she can come back to finish her college career with a bang. 
"I have so many goals, but they're just going to have to wait a year," Nixon said. "This is more of a hiatus ... the decision about the surgery was really about if I could end my collegiate career the way I wanted to. I wasn't happy with how I was training ... it was really the only choke I had." 

But that doesn't mean the choice was easy. 
Nixon didn't even tell the team how serious her situation was until she was certain she was going in for surgery -and even then played it down to protect her teammates. 
"They weren't expecting this at all," she said. "I didn't make it out to be a big deal." 
But the team is taking it as well as can be expected, said head coach Bailey Weathers. 
"They've taken it in stride ... it's important to all the kids on the team that her health is a concern right now. I think they'd muGh rather see her get well than try to push through the sea­son." 
Nixon is determined to remain an active leader on the team, however, as she faces the chal­lenge of fulfilling her role as co­captain for the rest of the sea­son. After turning to football captain Grant Irons, who was sidelined earlier in the season, for advice, Nixon has made some realizations about her situation -and her role on the team. 
"I still see myself as a captain, as a role model, as a leader," Nixon said. "I don't see my role as changing all that much ... but all of a sudden you have to switch your role on the team from action to support." 
"I just told her not to get over­whelmed by this injury," Irons 

Senior Carrie Nixon swims in the 2000 Big East Championships. Nixon is sidelined for the remainder of this season due to a shoulder Injury. 
said. "It's very easy to get down doesn't think the surgery should on yourself and get negative but set her back -and expects to be I just told her to think of the pos­right on track this time next itives. Since we both have the year. same injury, we are going to pre­And part o[ her is thankful she serve and get through this injury has a little bit of extra time at together." Notre Dame. 
As Nixon embarks on an inten­"When the seniors go off and sive physical therapy program get jobs, I'll still be going to for the next several months and school ... and that's something looks forward to shedding her that I couldn't pass up. The pros sling, she will begin to re-evalu­outweigh the cons by far. I've ate her goals for next season. been offered another year of col­Remaining optimistic, Nixon lege -everyone wants that." 

Friday, November 24th -Friday, December 22nd 
9:00 a.,n. to 5:00 p.,n. Daily 
for some ofthe best deals ofthe holiday shopping season on high quality Notre Dame merchandise! 
Discounts from 20 to 60 percent off. 
Special items available at even higher discounts! High quality merchandise from Champion, Gear for Sports, adidas, Jansport, New Era, University Square. The Notre Dame Catalog Center is located at 1602 North Ironwood just south ofSt. Road 23 
No additional discounts apply. All sales final 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 21, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Belles split weekend games at Wellesley College tourney 
By KATIE McVOY 
Assistant Sports Ediror 
This weekend provided the Saint Mary's basketball team with the springboard it needed to get this sea­son oJT to a good start. 
The Belles new to Boston to take part in the Wellesley College Invitational. where they broke even. Saint Mary's lost to tournament win­ner Wellesley 85-45 on Saturday, but came back to dominate Johnson and Wales University 66-28 on Sunday. 
"This was a very important win for us," senior captain Julie Norman said. "It not only boostc; morale, but gives a lot of hope for the rest of the season." 
In addition to racking up their first win of the season, the Belles were proud to bring home a record breaker and an all-team player. 
Sophomore center Kristen Matha broke the school record for rebounds, rncking up 18 boards for the Belles during Sunday's game. Sophomore point guard Shaun Russell, an All­Tournament selection, led Wellesley in front of a home team crowd. 
Saint Mary's had a rough start against Wellesley. The Blue opened the game with a 12-0 run that forced the Belles to play catch-up for the rest of the game. 
"We had to try and fight back the whole game," Norman said. "And they had the home court advantage." 
The Wellesley defense overwhelmed Saint Mary's early on, and the Belles never came back. The veteran Wellesley team took its toll on the young Saint Mary's team. 
"They had great senior leadership," 
Norman said. "They talked it up on 
defense and we were intimidated 
because that's how we usually play." 

Matha led the team in scoring with 11 points. Anne Blaire and Russell each scored 10 points for the team. 
Following Saturday's loss, the Belles scouted the next day's competition. Although Johnson and Wales boasted two All-Americans on its team, that didn't stunt the Belles' confidence. 
"Watching !Johnson and Wales] on Saturday gave us the confidence that we could win," Norman said. 
And win they did. 

The Belles came out strong and never let up intensity the entire game. Saint Mary's led the entire game, leading by as many as 34 points. 
''From the tip off to the final buzzer we never lost our intensity," Norman said. "To anyone watching, we were a completely different team. We were confident." 
The Belles boasted four players in double figures on Sunday. Blair racked up 14 points for the team, joined by Norman, Matha and fresh­man Leighann Matesich who all scored in double digits. 
With one win under its belt. Saint Mary's is looking forward to games over the Thanksgiving holidays. 
"Sunday's over and we have to move forward," Norman said. 
The Belles will face off against Franklin College on Wednesday, enjoy the holiday, and then travel to Marietta, Ohio for a four-team tourna­ment next weekend. 
Irish dive into second place 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sport, W ri rer 
Powered by the breakout performances of Marie Labosky, the Irish women's swimming and diving team churned to a second place finish at the Indiana Invitational this weekend. The freshman, who won three events on the week­end, combined to be the Irish women's top point-scorer. 
Labosky's performances were the highlight of the weekend. beginning with her 
first win on friday. 
Labosky clocked in for first place once the first day of competition, capturing the 200-yard individual medley in two minutes, 5.21 sec­onds. She followed suit in Saturday's competition, securing a win in the 400­yard individual medley by more than five seconds and breaking a 10-ycar old Notre Dame school record. Labosky tallied another win in the 1,650-yard freestyle, and also checked in for third in the 500 freestyle and sev­enth in the 200-yard back­
stroke. 
"She was in a situation that was pretty competitive for her," said women's head coach Bailey Weathers. "She's a pretty aerobic ath­lete, and where most of the other girls were broken down, she was still capable
of swimming some gre_'.'.:a..::._t______________________
7 

races." in the 200-yard breastroke 
Even after an intense after posting the fastest 
period of training, qualifying time during pre­Labosky's performances lims. But her evening perfor­were still surprising, mance barely succumbed to Weathers said. Miami's Courtney Caples, 
"Her 400 IM was a bit of a falling by only three-hun­surprise," he said. "I knew dredths of a second. she could break the record Junior Kelly I-lecking post­thLc, year, but I didn't expect ed a second place in the 100­hertodothatthisweekend." yard backstroke Friday, 
Indiana University won the clocking in at 2:03.07. She event by a 200 point margin completed her backstroke over the Irish by the conclu-dominance in the meet with sion of Sunday's races. a win in the 200 backstroke Indiana held onto a firm lead Sunday, out-touching from the first day of competi-Indiana's Susan Woessner in tion, when it outdistanced 2:03.07. Notre Dame by approxi-Junior diver Heather mately 100 points. Notre Mattingly put up impressive Dame finished second as a performances from the team, followed by Miami of boards, winning second Ohio. place on the on the three­
"They're a team similar to meter board and third on the ours_ they're deep and one-meter board. l\lattingly good in diving," Weathers barely slipped past Miami's said. "When you get into a Katie Beth Bryant on the situation where you're three meter board, posting a behind, it's hard to over-score of 490.00. come that. We probably Labosky's classmates were where we thought we Laurie Musgrave and Lisa would be _ as a team, they Garcia also posted solid fin­were in a better place in ishes on the weekend, with their season. They kind of Musgrave earning third pointed to this as their big place in the 100 breastroke meet in the same way we'd and fifth in the 200 breas­point to the Notre Dame troke. Garcia won second in Invitational as our big meet." the 100 butterfly and sixth in 
Irish had several individual the 200, and also placed fifth standouts on the weekend. in the 200 individual medley. 
Other first place finishes Freshmen Sarah Bowman included junior Allison Lloyd and Danielle Hulick assisted with a win in thelOO-yard Hecking and IJoyd to a sec­breastroke. Lloyd narrowly ond place 200-yard medley missed posting another first relay finish Sunday. 
r-------------------­




Large One Topping Pizza 
I 
every tuesday 
Every Day Specials 
$7.99 Large One Topping before 9 pm $6.99 Large One Topping after 9 pm $11.99 -2 Large One Topping $8.99 Dominator One Topping $14.99 -2 Dominator One Topping 

271-0300 
11am-2am sun-thurs 11am-lam fri-sat 


-

--~-~----------------------------------------, 
page 19

Tuesday, November21, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

page 20 The ObJerver . SPORTS Tuesday, November 21, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish face quality competition in holiday tourney 
By TIM CASEY Assisr,rnr Spurn EJiror 
While most of their class­mates rest. the No. 5 women's basketball team faces its first test this weekend in the Coaches vs. Cancer tournament in Madison, Wisc. Notre Dame opens against No. 19 Wisconsin in the second half of a doubleheader on Wednesday night. The other contest pits No. 6 Georgia agains L No. 12 Oklahoma. 
"This is like an NCAA tournament subregional." coach Muffot McGraw said. "We've got some great teams." 
In the first four games ­including a pair of exhibi­tions -the Irish have outscored thnir opponents by an average of nearly 34 points per game. But the Badgers, the 2000 Women's National Invitational Tournament champions, will pose prob­lems for the Irish. 
Wisconsin enters the game with 
a I·1 
more aggressive this yea1:." 
Although Hiley receives most of the publicity, two other Irish players have turned in strong begin­nings of the season. Senior point guard Nielc Ivey, the team's emotional leader, according to McGraw, scored 12 points and had 10 assists against Valparaiso. On Monday night. the St. Louis native 
tallied  14  points  and  
dished of f 11 assists.  
But  in  lhe  first  two  

games, sophomore Alicia Hatay has been the biggest scoring contributor. She has shot over 68 percent from the field. including 11 for 15 on 3-pointers, and averaged 23 points per contest. 
"Niele's just a great, great f'loor leader for our team," McGraw said. "She's played extremely well. And when you've got Alicia Hatay on the 3-point line and Huth Hiley on the block, you've got some great options." 
If the Irish defeat the Badgers, they may face a 
talented 
Georgia 


r e c o r d "This is like an NCAA squad. 
after los­The Miller
tournament

ing to twins 
Oregon subregional. We've got Coco and 
71-57 and some great teams. " Kelly defeating are among E I o n t h e 
Muffet McGraw 

College nation's 102-49 in Irish head coach best play­
last week-e n d ' s Glaxo Wellcome Invitational in Haleigh, 
N .C. Four players have averaged double figures with 6-foot-3 forward Jessie Tomski's 15 points 
per game leading the t-.am. 
"They've got a tremen­dous front court," McGraw said. "Tu play them at home will be a very big challenge for us." 
Sophomore Nina Smith, a 6-foot-4 center, enters the game averaging nine points anti 6.5 rebounds. Last season. Smith started the first nine games before a broken right foot side­lined her for the next 17 contests. In high school. USA Today and Parade Magazine named Smith the nation's top player. 
Smith will guard All­American center Huth Hiley, who has averaged 15 points and seven rebounds in two regular season games. More 
importantly,  Hiley  has  
eommitted only  one  foul  
al{ainst Valparaiso  and  

i\rizona. 
"It's a terrific rnatchup," McGraw said. "Nina's a strong player. Huth's not so much a physical player although she's been a little 
ers. The 
senior guards from Minnesota shared the 2000 Sullivan Award as the nation's top amateur athlete last sea­son. 
The Bulldogs lost to No. 
1 Connecticut 99-70 on Nov. 12 but rebounded with a 7 l-(i3 win over Massachusetts. Before the Connecticut game, Georgia was ranked third in the nation. 
"I know what that reels like going up tu Ilartford and playing in front of a big crowd," said McGraw, who has never bea.ten UConn in 11 tries. "(Connecticut's) a great team. I'm surprised Georgia dropped because I think they're still a very good team and probably should be ranked higher than they are." 
The tournament final will be televised by ESPN on Friday following the 
1 :30 p.m. consolation game. 

Isn't it time your home gave something back to you? 
6.9%APY• 
PRIMEquity Line-of-Credit Loan Low introductory rate! 

Bed N' Brt:;lkfast Registry foy~c: Smigic:lski ' Stay ill a "Home dose: t<nhc: Dome" 
219/232-0774 888/830-7722 http://husincss.mid1iana.org/hnhreg/ 
9 5%APY'
e 
Even our regular rate is hard to beat!
'uJ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 

219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org 800/ 522-6611 
Independent of the University. 
•Annual Percentage Rate. Property insurance is required. Not valid with any other offer. Rates subject to change. Consult a tax advisor regarding the deductibility of interest. A balloon payment 
6)will result at maturity. After the six-month introductory period, the rate wiH revert to the highest ~ IIUI~ IUUI( prime tending rate of the previous quarter. Minimum amount is $5,000. Maximum amount is $100,000 LENDER 
............................., .,.._._.,.,..-._ ;.,._......._._.._.-.-•-•b--• ~ Ironwood family Dentistry .I ;, 271-7500 RUSSELL A MURPHY, DDS 
1639 NORTH IRON WOOD DRIVE SUITE 109 SOUTH BEND. IN 46635 

10% COLLEGE STUDENT DISCOUNT 



Tuesday, November 21, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
SOFTBALL 
Irish sign three versatile players to Class of 2005 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame softball team has announced three new additions to its program. Megan Ciolli, Annie Dell'Aria_ and Carrie Wison have signed letters of intent to attend Notre Dame beginning in the fall of 2001. 
"We are expecting all three ot' them to come in and have an immediate impact on the team." said Irish head coach Liz Miller. "We believe all three have the talent to conlribule from their first day on campus." 
Indiana native Ciolli is a three-sport standout (softball, baskP.tball and soccer) at North Vigo High School in Terre Haute. Ind. A three-time Most Valuable Player on the softball team, Ciolli has been named all-conference and a,11­countv all three years at North Vigo. She also c·arncd all-state honors in 2000 and was the state home run champion in 1999. 
"She has primarily played third base in her career, but she is enough of an athlete that she can make the switch to the outfield," Miller said "That is what makes her such an asset. She has a lot 

The easy, hassle free way to fly. 
Fly to Orlando/Sanford • Portsmouth, New Hampshire• St. Louis/Belleville, IL• Philadelphia/Allentown, PA 
.,.. ..,,,~--:,\'.t,.01tii,' 
·· • FREE Parking • Easy access to all highways • Convenient • Secure 
For Pan Am: 1-800-FLY-PANAM www.flypanam.com For More lnftnmation 
www.garychicagoairport.com 
of ability to move around and play a lot of positions." . _ . _ 
Ciolli smackP-d ;{7 consecutive hit-, m 2000 and posted a .596 batting avernge. She also boasts a .543 career hattmg average and 55 stolen bases. 
"It was the school I wanted to attend from the beginning," Ciolli said. "Th_e atmosphere is great and the opportum­ties that Notre Dame provides are unparalleled." 
Dell'Aria hails from Fairfax, Va.. , and is a two-sport athlete (softball and vol­leyball) al Bishop O'Connell High School. Dell'Aria helped the tMm to an unde­feated record in 1998 and helped the team extend its string of consecutive conference championships to seven in 2000. The team also was nationally ranked in '98 and '99. 
"The first word that comes to mind with Annie is 'power hitter'," Miller said. "Her primary position is catcher, so she might switch to a different position next year because Jarrah Myers [N_otre Dame's current starting catcher] will be a senior." 
Dell'Aria was named the Washington Catholic Athletic Conference Player of the Year in 2000 and was a first-team all-state selection as well. She posted a .522 batting average last season with 29 RBI and a team-best 36 hits. 
"It is a dream come true to sign ½ith Notre Dame," Dell'Aria said. 
A four-year letter winner at Sonora High School in La Habra, Calif., Wisen as an all-freeway league pick in 1999 and 2000 and led Sonora to the league championship both years as well. 
"Carrie is very strong," Miller said. "Her best pitch is the change up and the drop curve. Because of her strength, she has the ability to come in, throw hard, and learn a lot of pitches." 
Wisen went 6-1 in 2000 and posted a 
0.59 ERA for the season. 

"The feeling of actually finishing the signing process is great," Wisen said. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Special to The Observer 

The top-ranked Notre Dame wom~-?·s soccer team (22-0-1) ½ill face a familiar foe in next week's NCM quarterfinal round as Santa Clara advanced on Saturd~y afternoon with a 2-1 overtime win at BYU. 
Notre Dame will be making its seventh straight appearance in the_ NCAA qu:i,rt~r­finals while Santa Clara will be making its ninth· trip to the quarterfinals and sixth in the last seven years. 
Santa Clara has faced Notre Dame five times during the last six seasons (Notre Dame holds a 3-2-0 series edge), including three meetings in the last 13 months. The Irish dropped a 4-2 game at Santa Clara's Buck Shaw Stadium on Oct. 17. 1999, before avenging that defeat with a 1-0 
win over the top-ranked Broncos in the 1999 NCAA semifinals. 
Notre Dame posted a 6-1 win over a depleted Santa Clara squad earlier this season, on the first day of Notre Dame's Key Bank Classic. 
Santa Clara (16-6-1) -which gained one of 24 at-large berths in the NCAAs ­is riding a five-game winning st~eak, including a 2-0 second-round wm at California to eliminate the ei'ghth-seeded Golden Bears. 
NCAA Notes 
. 
Notre Dame, North Carolina and Connecticut are the only teams to advance to the NCAA quarterfinals every season since 1994. 

. 
Since Notre Dame began sponsoring varsity women's soccer in 1988, just three schools have advanced to more quarterfi­nals than Notre Dame's seven: North Carolina, Connecticut and Santa Clara. 


Happy 19th Birthday, Gavin! November 22nd 
We Love You! 
Nov 27-Dec 22, 2000 
Bring your ID and receive an extra 20% offall sale items. 
• Excluding balls 
Pro Shop Hours Mon-Fri 9-5 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 21, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

High-scoring Irish stress illlproved defense before break 


By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sporn Editor 
The Notre Dame men's basket­ball team knows it can score fol­1owing its 104-point output against Sacred Heart. In this week's games with Loyola (Chicago) Wednesday and No. 17 Cincinnati Saturday, it wants to prove it can play its new man-to­miln defense as well. 
"Offensively, we know we're going to score points," junior small forward David Graves said. "Defensively, we_ need to get bet­ter. There are a lot of things that people r.an work at. Some people are picking it up [man-to-man] quicker than others, but l defi­nitely believe that there's improvement." 
The Irish (1-0) feature an explosive offense led by All­American power forward Troy Murphy and All-Big XII transfer Ryan Humphrey, both are prone to eye-catching dunks. Both players can also hit 3-pointers, but better known for their perimeter shooting are clutch shooters Graves and Matt Carroll, along with point guard Martin lngelsby. 
In No. 16 Notre Dame's attempt to move into the ranks of the nation's elite programs, a game against a program like Cincinnati that's already estab­lished itself is key. Even more key for now, however, is not looking past Wednesday's oppo­nent, Loyola (0-1). 
"We have to concentrate on each game at hand," Murphy said. "We can't look ahead to anybodv. I think that was our problem last year." 
Loyola. a 10-10 team a year ago, lost its two leading scorers to graduation. The Hamblcrs' top returning lettermen arc guard David Bailey, forward Schin Kerr and 6-foot-10 center Silvijo Turkovic, joined by freshm,in forward Hyan Blankson. 
The Loyola Ramblers, coached by third-year head coach Larry Farmer. dropped their season opener to Stephen F. Austin 64­60 Sunday. In the prcseason, the Ramblers faced one of th~1 same foes as the Irish in the International Select All-Stars. The Ramblers didn't get the same result, losing 81-74, while Notre Dame won that matchup 89-71. 
"Loyola's going to be a good test for us before we get to Cincinnati." Graves said. 
After playing in front of a nearly full house Saturday, the Irish are hoping for the same against the Ramblers. 
After Wednesday, Notre Uanrn will turn its attention to Cincinnati (1-0), which it will face Saturday in the John Wooden Classic in Jndianapolis. 
For the Irish, shut out of the NCAA tournament the past 10 years. the early-season game against the Bearcats is a pin to be knocked over on the road to March Madness. They also face tough non-conference opponents Indiana, Vanderbilt, Miami (Ohio} and Kentucky by mid­January. 
"Those are some tough games," Graves said. "We need to establish ourselves early. We need to show not only our fans, but the country, that we deserve to be ranked where we are." 
The Bearcats were one of the nation's top teams a year ago, with a !lawless 16-0 record in Conference US/\ and a 29-4 overall record. They lost in tlw second round ·of the NCAA tour­nament, but would likely have advanced further if top playnr Kenyon Martin, the No. l pick in the N i3A drart by the New Jersey NeL'l, had not suffer1!d a season­ending injury jusl before the tournamnnt began. 
Cincinnati returns head coach Bob Huggins, sophomore guard Kenny Satterfield and 6-11 sophomore i;enter Donald Little. Satterfield srored a rareer-high 27 poinls in his school's season­opening 73-(il victory over Boise State. Both he and Little pulled down nine rebounds in tlrn game. 
This season's squad. while still expHcted to be strong, is missing several cogs in its team from a year ago. In addition to Martin, the Atlanta Hawks selected DerMarr Johnson as the No. 6 pick in the drart and Pete Mickeal went to the Dallas Mavericks as the l'\o. 56 pick. 
"They lost their two best play­ers, Kenyon Martin and DerMarr Johnson, so we're not going to be intimidated by them," Murphy said. "Cincinnati's always good, but they're not going to be as good as last year." 
Following the conclusion of the 1 p.rn. Notre Dame-Cincinnati game will be the second featured game of the day, between Purdue and Arizona. 


Friday, November 24th -Friday, December 22nd 
9:00 a.,n. to 5:00 p.m. Daily 
for some ofthe best deals ofthe holiday shopping season on high quality Notre Dame merchandise! 
Discountsfrom 20 to 60 percent off. 
Special items available at even higher discounts! High quality merchandise from Champion, Gear for Sports, adidas, Jansport, New Era, University Square. The Notre Dame Catalog Center is located at 1602 North Ironwood just south ofSt. Road 23 
No additional discounts apply. All sales final 

TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
BILLAMEND

Fox TROT 
WHAT ARE 
YOU 
SMILIN(;, 
AT?! 
I 

I 
I '­
"'8ft) 
Tuesday, November 21, 2000 The Obierver . TODAY page 23 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 "When Will 61 Jai 
1 Five-time loved" 62 Tony-, Oscar­Wimbledon 35 He should have and Emmy­champion swatted those winner born 
two flies 10/10/1900

5 Box a bit 36 Stephen of 'The 65 Starting point in
9 Prepare to Crying Game" tennisswallow 37 Oscar-winner 66 Cremona violin­13 "I'll go along for 62-Across, makerwith that" 1970 67 Russia's14 Part of an act 41 New Deal org. Mountains 15 Marathon 42 Column next to 68 Graze 16 Play starring the ones 69 Puente known 62-Across, 1952 44 New: Prefix as "El Rey" 
18 Wrinkle remover 
70 Cabbagelike 19 Humbug vegetable 
45 'The Thinker'' 
sculptor

preceder 
47 Play starring 20 "_we having 62-Across, 1958 DOWN 
fun yet?" 51 Wahine's 1 Big flop 21 Malady offering 2 Gumbo 23 Mosque priests 52 leader's place 3 Impetuous 25 Get the picture 53 Unlucky 4 Sock hop locale 26 Film starring 57 The Trojans 5 Plot 62-Across, 1932 58 Diagnostic 6 Eastern 33 More mature scanner, briefly Canadian prov. 7 Moffo or 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 SignMagnanion 

L E G G 9 War of Puzzle by Frances.Hansen 
A M O R 1853-56 28 Hersey's bell 10 loser to a 
town tortoise 
29 Wall St. deal 
11 Nobel Prize subj. 
30 Sonata section12 Didn't stay 31 Madame Curie14 Pallet stuffer 32 Defiant answer17 "Cheese" is to "Shall!"
produced near 
this 
38 Where Yankee Doodle stuck a22 Prideful one, feather
astrologically 23 High dudgeon 
39 Alternative to a Maxwell
~;,,.+-,,.+,,,-1 24 Remove, as shoes 
40 Soldiers' ditch 
~~;,.;.+-,,,.L+-,L~ 26 Main artery 43 Defiled 
.__.__.___,__E_._E_. 27 Armada 46 Go (for) 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Irish Hockey Fri./Sat. Nov. 24th and 25th at 7pm 7pm 
Notre Dame vs. Northern Michigan ALS First 350 students admitted free 
SANTA CLARA free
FRIDAY A chance at free tuition for one lucky stud 
courtesy orSouth BendTribune 

Chance to win a free scooter courtesy of :30pm SATURDAY vs.. Loyola. (Chicago) Chance to win a Papa Vino's/Chili's gift certi .B. t-shirts with coupon 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . 
HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Marlo Thomas, Goldie Hawn, Dr. John, Bjork, Ken Griffey Jr. 
Happy Birthday: You will be extremely ambitious this year. Your goal will be to acquire money and material resources. Through your dealings with other people's money and possessions, you will realize that money must be circulated in order for it to do any good. If you are greedy, you will lose. If you are will­ing to keep the money moving, you will find tnat it will continue to come back to you. Your numbers: 3, 8, 11, 13, 37, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You 
may have some difficulties with co­
workers or bosses. You should stick 
to your own job and not ask for help. 
Self-improvement rrojects will be 
quite successful i started today. 
000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Children may be on your mind. If 
your children are older, you may 
want to make plans to visit or do 
things with them. If you haven't had 
any yet, you may want to think 
about it. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Leave your domestic problems at 
home. You won't be able to make 
changes that will suit everyone. It is 
best to work on your own interests 
until times get better. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Talk 
to a close friend about a personal 
matter. You have been confused late­
ly and need to get an objective point 
of view. Try to be compfetely honest 
when describing the situation. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money­
making opportunities are apparent. 
Be creative when dealing with your 
personal financial budget. You can 
stretch your money further than you 
thought possible. 0000 

Birthday Baby: You will use your willpower to make the changes in your home that you feel are necessary. You will influence family members at a very early age and will always have a say in the decisions being made. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenWut.com, astromate.com.) ~ 2000 Universal Preu Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You have to spend more time with your partner if you don't want to end up alone. Although you have managed to get your way in the past, the situa­tion no longer looks cut-and-dried. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You have been doing too much, and it's time to sit back for a moment. You will probably find it impossible to do notliing, but can relax by doing things you enjoy. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Relationships will surface through connections made at work. Those you meet will think you stable, loyal and honest. It looks like the begin­ning of new and lasting friendships. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Join new clubs or do thim(s that will bring you in contact with new friends. Relationships can be devel­oped, and partnerships can be formed. Be receptive toward others. 
0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will meet compatible mates. Don't take the chance of ruining your present relationship for the wrong reason. Get involved in ac­tivities that will bring you added knowledge. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make extra cash if you invest in new domestic products. Your partner won't want you in­-­volved in risky ventures. Don't jeop­ardize family finances; put your own cash on the line. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You're in the mood for love. You and your partner are ready to start talk­ing about getting serious and malc­ing future plans. Starting a family maybe onyour mind. 000 

48 Unexciting grade 49 Closely following 50 Egypt's Mubarak 53 Big share 54 vera 55 Smooth the way 56 Big rig 58 Dame Hess 
59 Genuine 
60 Part of an 
archipelago 
63 Opposite of long. 
64 Bering Sea bird 





Seeking redemption 
Bob Davie's Irish want a victory in the Coliseum after not winning there since 1992. A victory over USC could clinch a BCS bowl. 
PORTS 
page 14 

O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, November 21, 2000 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 


Junior Luke Watson shown above in the Big East Championships, placed seventh for the Irish In the NCAA Ch,ampionships Monday, pacing them to a ninth place finish. 
Irish do it again, take ninth at NCAAs 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Spores Editor 
They weren't even supposed to make it to the NCAA Championships. 

The Notre Dame men's cross country team lost four runners to graduation and All-American Hyan Shay to a redshirt season, leaving a sparse roster for head coach Joe Piane. Yet the Irish not only qualified for the national meet, they chalked up a top-10 finish, their 10th since 1987. . . 
The Irish finished ninth in the nation rn Monday's NC'AA Championships in Ames, Iowa, led by a seventh-place finish by junior Luke Watson, their top runner all season. Watson crossed the finish line in 30 minutes, 29.4 sec­onds. 
Watson's improved dramatically since last sea­son, when he placed 58th. This year, he never missed the top 10 in a meet. He even surpassed the 1999 pt1rformances of Shay, who qualified for the U.S. Olympic Trials this summer, in some meets. 
Junior Pat Conway, normally the third runner for the Irish. captured the No. 2 spot for Notre Dame Monday with a 36th place finish and 31:04 time. 
Marc Striowski, a top-10 finisher at the Great Lakes Hegional meet, crossed the finish line six seconds after Conway to take 42nd. 
Freshman Todd Mobley placed 99th for the Irish in a solid rookie performance. Senior Sean Zanderson closed out his Irish career by covering the 10,000-meter course in 
32:18 and assuring the Irish of a top-10 finish. The sixth and seventh Irish runners were David Alber and John Keane. Arkansas won the meet, and Providence's Keith Kelly captured the individual title. 
The Big East Conference was the dominant league in the meet, as it placed four teams in the top 10. Providence placed third, Villanova took sixth, Georgetown was seventh and Notre Dame earned ninth. Kelly, the meet champion, also won the Big East title earlier this year. 
Even better than Notre Dame's finish this sea­son is its prospectus for next year. 
Only Zanderson will graduate, while the remaining six varsity runners return. The Irish will also welcome the return of Shay, who will have a ntth year of eligibility. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame dominates Arizona inside, outside 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Spores Editor 
This time, they made both halves count. 
Following a sluggish second­half performance in its season­opening win at Valparaiso Friday night. the Notre Dame women's basketball team domi­nated the University of Arizona for all 40 min­u t e s Monday, showing a versatile inside-out­side game while picking up a 95-65 victory. 
"I knew going in that Notre Dame probably had one of the best inside-outside games in the country," said Arizona head coach Joan Bonvicini. "I thought that was evident from the open­ing tip." 
The Irish used the combined athleticism of All-American cen­ter Huth Hiley -who scored 17 points in the game to go along with a team-leading seven rebounds -and sharp-shooting guard Alicia Hatay. who led all scorers with 26 points. Niele Ivey completed her second double­double in as many games with 14 points and 11 assists. 
Notre Dame established its dominance early over Arizona ­a team that reached the second round of last season's NCAA tournament before falling to eventual champion Tennessee. After taking the tip-off, Ivey missed her first shot of the game before forward Ericka Haney stole the ball as Arizona carried the ball upcourt. 
Haney found Hatay open on the 


wing. The sopho­"We came out the first think any more guard five minutes and really time that 
swished the open­you can
shut them down."
ing shot to give play a qual­the Irish the ity team like game's first Muffet McGraw Arizona and points. rest your
Irish head coach 
what we wanted to do. We shot the ball extremely well the whole game. but especially in the first half." 
Also helping the Irish in their dominant first half -a half in which they at one point led by 30 before entering the locker room up 57 -29 -was power forward Kelley Siemon. Siemon scored HJ points and added live rebounds in the early half. while also exhibiting passing skills that set the Irish offense in motion. 
"That first half was the best she has ever played," McGraw said of Siemon. "She was very involved in the offense. She rebounded. she ran tho f'loor well, she passed tho ball." 
Leading the Irish attack once again was fifth-year point guard Ivey. While she showed her accu­rate shooting touch. the 5-f'oot-7 Ivey also displayed a surprising inside game, scoring at will below the basket. Ivey feels her versatility adds to her leadership role on the team. 
"As a loader I'm trying to got better every game," said Ivey. "We have so much talent that if I can get bettor as a leader I can carry the team as far." 
After building the lead to 43 points following another Batay 3­pointer with 14:07 left in the sec­ond half, McGraw gave her starters a rest and handed tho game over to reserve players. 
Despite playing against Arizona·s starting lineup, the· reserves held their own. lmani Dunbar finished with six points and three assists, while Monique Hernandez added five points and three assists. Amanda Barksdale scored four points while blocking four shots in 20 minutes. 
'The best part of' the game was that we got to rest the starters almost the entire second half'," s a i d McGraw. "I 

Following an Arizona miss, Ratay hit virtually the same shot to put the Irish up by six. Ratay's hot shooting con­tinued throughout the first half, as she made all four of her field goal attempts -including three from downtown -to go along with a perfect four of four from the free-throw line to finish the half with 15 points. 
"We came out the first five minutes and really shut them down," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw, "which was 
starters, I 
think you're 
having great success." 
Despite thn dominating loss. Bonvicini feels that her team will learn from the experience of playing No. 5 Notre Dame. "No one likes to take a whooping like this, but I think we're going to be better because of it," she said. 
The Irish 1wxt takP the court Wednesday evening in Madison, Wisc. at the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic to takP on Wisconsin in the first round of the tournament. 

vs. Loyola (Chicago) vs. Northern Michigan
Volleyball Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. at No. 6 USC Friday, 7:05 p.m.
SPORTS 

Friday, 6 p.m.ATA at use
at No. 16 Wisconsin vs. No. 24 Santa Clara 
Saturday, 3:30 p.m. 

Coaches vs. Cancer Classic NCAA quarterfinals 
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Friday, 7p.m.GLANCE 




