
Ex-slaves to receive $5M
Battle of the Bands 
Negotiators decided to allocate 

Friday

Several campus bands prepare to monry to compensate Nazi-era slaves andforced laborers. 
compete tonight at Senior Rar. 
Scene . pages 20-22 
MARCH 24, 

News . page 8 
2000 
THE 



VOLXXXIll N0.107 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Snite exhibit explores color of Mayan traditions 


Rainy season ( above) and Boy with Iquanas (left) are two of the photographs by Jeffrey Becom currently on exhibit at the Snite Museum. Becom's art work reflects the importance of color zn the Mayan culture. 

Restructured SafeRide starts tonight 
are also going to be paid," Mamak expand into Thursday night and into By LAURA ROMPF said. "We believe that this will help more hours," Mamak said. "The Assisranr News Ediror to make the program much more O'Donoghue/Norton administration 
accountable than it has been in the along with the coordinator will eval­
Aft(\f months of restructuring, the past." uate the program after the semester Saf'nRide program will be up and ivlamak said he hopes that to determine whether or not running once again this weekend. SafeRide will changes need to 
In its efforts to reinstate the late­exceed its past be made. I have night van service, student govern­numbers and full confidence
"I hope that we will have to 

ment formed an Ad Hoc committee current expecta­that it is going to
expand into Thursday 

to work on the structural problems tions. run very well. with the program. "At its peak in night and into The basic goal is "Tlw basic problems that the Ad th A past. to serve as many
more hours." 

Hoc Committee identified were reli­SafcRide was students as pos­ability of the program and account­giving anywhere sible." ability of' the volunteers to drive." from 50 to 100 Matt Mamak Mamak said said chief of staff Matt Mamak. "The rides per night," office of the student body president that, overall, he basic structural change is that the Mamak said. "I hopes most prob-coordinator of the program is going hope that with 1ems have been to be paid !David Powers). He works good publicity, accountability and solved and that the program will for both security and student gov­reliability, we will be able to exceed run smoothly. ernment. but will be paid through those numbers." "I believe that we have addressed security." lf SafeRide proves popular, he as many problems as humanly pos­
Other student workers will receive continued, the program could be sible. The rest of the semester will compensation as well. expanded after further evaluation. give us a chance to address any fur­"Also. tho people driving the vans "J hope that we will have to ther problems that arise," he said. 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
News Wrircr 
Few Americans would dare to paint their houses bright blue like the ocean or their cl1urrh a rich red, but the Maya people use colors to Exhibition represent 


Info 

different aspects of . Through May 21 
life. . Tues./Wed. 10 On the 
Notre Dame a.m.to 4 p.m. campus, the . Thurs.to Sat. 10 blue and red 
a.m. to 5p.m.

walls of the 
. Sun. 1to 5 p.m.

S n i t e Museum reflect the luminous, rich col­ors of this new exhibit, Jeffrey Becom Photographs: The Maya and Their Color Cosmos. 
"It's a different world -the tropical and subtropical world is much brighter -It's a much more colorful place," said Steve Moriarty, associate art profes­sor and associate professional specialist at the Snite. The exhibit consists of three topics: painted houses, painted churches and painted tombs. 
"This is the first museum exhibit of this photographer's show," said Gina Costa, mar­keting and public affairs spe­cialist. She said that students could benefit from the exhibit's immersion into the very beauty of vivid colors within a tradi­tional indigenous Mexican soci­ety. 
"Sometimes we are not aware of the very sophisticated system [the Maya people] have of symbolically using colors," Costa said. Colors are not just pigments selected from a palate, but rather, represent death. the heavens or even sac­rifice. 
Becom reflects those tradi­tions in his photography. 
"[Becom 's I obsession is color," said Costa, explaining that the photographer accl'ntu­ates the beauty within the Mayan's poverty. 
"It became clear that painted architecture -and specifically its colors -was my life's call­ing, whether I photograph. paint or write books about painted color customs. myths. and meaning," Becom said. 
Becom uses a silver bleach process to highlight the rich colors in the architecture. 
"Dye structure is a positive­to-positive process that pro­duces prints directly from color transparencies without the need for an inter-negative," said Becom. "During the pro­cessing .. . some of the dyes are bleached out to remove unwanted areas of color." 
In the Mayan tradition, hous­es should all resemble each other to avoid envy from neigh­bors. 
"Only in those towns where the lure of the outside world holds sway do customs loosen; and Maya might dare personal­ize their houses with flamboy­ant colors," Becom said. This does not hold true for church­es, however. Before the Spanish explorers, Mayan peo­ple painted their churches in red paint "as a potent symbol of blood sacrifice and a prayer for renewal," Becom continued. Because this practice was con­trary to Catholic beliefs of red as the devil and sin, the Mayan 
see BECOM/page 4 


Callahan calls on Church to rethink gender issues 
By LINDSAY FRANK 
News Writer 

The Catholic Church needs to develop a more inclusive sexual ethic, said Sidney Callahan, pro­fessor of psychology at Mercy College, in her lec­ture Thursday night. 
The Church should rethink how it deals with issues of gender differences. contraception and sexual orientation. Callahan said. 
When discussing issues of gender, she empha­sizes that one could be Christian while disagree­ing with gender stereotypes of women as home­makers and men as being in the workforce. 
"I became one of the first people to advocate Christian feminism," she said. "J didn't find that there was one specific location for women or for 
see CALLAHAN/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, March 24, 2000 

INSIDE COLUMN 




Firing Ideological Blanks 
Ah, gun control. The issue makes otherwise intelligent people sound like complete buffoons. So it's no surprise that a debate on the issue should be prominent at Notre Dame, where intel­ligence abounds, but common sense is as easy to find as a natural tan in Michiana. 
Both extremes in the drbate offer ample amuse­ment. Radical gun lovers claim that the Second Amendmrmt fully grants them the right to hunt rab­bits with anli-tank missiles. Anti-gun pundits claim that we need to hold the avail­ability of guns responsible, not the evil tendencies of humans. 
Sadly enough, the truth is closer to your gun-loving Uncle Rufus up in Montana than the legislation-happy gun control Lealots, which speaks volumes. As much as I hate to side with the guys who wear !luorescent Jeff Gordon hats, their stance is, I'm afraid. more logical. 
Persomtlly, J would be happier than a guy with a pocket foll of quarters in a nickel stripper bar if banning guns would have any significant efTed on gun violence and crime in general. But Prohibition and the "war" on drugs teach us valuable lessons: as long is there is a high demand for something -whether it be guns, money for sex or drugs, then your laws must reflect this. 
Though comparing gun use to prostitution or substance abuse is rather "apples and oranges," it is still an important point. Whereas prostitution and recreational drug use are illegal (except in Nevada and the Mayor's office in D.C., respec­tively), there are legitimate uses for guns by civil­ians, whether they be self defense. sport or other legal and legitimate means. 
There are several horrible arguments in favor of gun control -never mind the fact that more restrictions are no guarantee of less crime. We have the "It works in England" simpletons who disregard societal factors as a role in gun vio­lence (By the way, prohibition is alive and well in Saudi Arabia). 
These individuals, when studying statistics on gun-related violence, reason that by making a law to take the gun away, the crime vanishes as well, or at least decreases considerably. Won't these criminals find other means to purchase weapons? Of course they will, and they already do. Allow me to introduce the phrase "black market" to the world. 
Wouldn't our efforts be better spent in han­dling the problems leading to the crimes or even addressing the criminal? And if they would, is it adequate to assume that because we don't know how to go about effectively stopping the crimi­nals, we should just pass more laws in the mean­time to appease the electorate and convince them we're making a difference? The answers to these questions grow more obvious by the hour. 
The issue won't go away, because it provides fodder for gutless politicians to bolster their images as "caring" more about people than about an outdated Amendment they perceive as "taken out of context." (Interestingly enough, these same clowns trample the premises of the First Amendment.) 
And if they ever succeed in banning guns, they will gaze cluelessly at unfaltering crime rates, pondering the failure of clueless advocates of years past. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsen>er. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Erin LaRuffa  Amanda Greco  
Maribel /v1orey  Mike Vanegas  
Nicole Ha.ddad  Graphics  
Sports  Jose Cuellar  
Kevin Berchou  Production  
Viewpoint  Noah Amsradter  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Lab Tech  
Angela Campos  

The Ob,erver (USPS ~99 2-4000) is p11bli.shed Monday through Friday ercc:pt during ex:im and vacauon permds. The Observer is a member of rhc­A:-,ocialed Pre\!>. All reprnducrion rights 0-re r(:~ervcd 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Student seeks to sell Sacred Heart 
March 17, 1970 

In an effort lo purchase food and medicine for starving and injured people, Peter UuBois, a Notre Oame senior, circulated a petition to sell the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. He gathered 42 signatures, including one profes­sor. "The altar alone would bring in a sizeable sum and the bricks might be able tn be sold as building material and perhaps even as 'souvenirs,"' Du Bois said. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
TV royal graces campus with his presence 
March 22, 1996 
Flanner sophomore Hieb Kizer became MTV King of lhe Reach during spring break in Panama City, Fla. "I wasn't cocky. I wasn't too serious. I realized that I was a moron. Ijust like to have fun," Kizer said. The new king's room­mate took credit for his crown: "In the beginning it was just raw talent, but we molded him into what he is today," he said. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Michigan students murdered in Costa Rica 
ANN ARBOH, Mich. 

University students from across the country travel the world each year gaining new communication skills and cultural experience. But Sunday's murder of a 19-year-old Ann Arbor woman and her friend in Costa Rica raises questions about student securi­ty abroad. 
Emily Eagen, "vho was arlrnitted to the University of Michigan as a non­degree student l'or the upcoming fall semester, and Emily llowr.ll, a 19­year-old student at Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, were found dead Monday on a highway near the tourist town of Cahuita, Costa Rica. 
Eagen was a 1998 graduate of Ann Arbor Pioneer High School. "They were murdered Sunday night some­where on the coast," Eagcn's older sister Sarah said. 
"We have been told they were last seen leaving the hotel to go get beer or go to a bar. We have been told it is not a sex crime. My sister was found fully clothed. We would like to clarify that." 

Authorities reported finding the girls' rented sports utility vehicle badly burned several miles away from the bodies. Howell, of Lexington, Ky., and Eagen, a former Antioch student, were found with clothing, belongings and credit cards, authoritios said. 
Howell was doing a photography project as part of an Antioch College curriculum that requires students to spend five semesters doing co-op work to fulfill graduation require­ments. 
Eagen had been visiting Howell for 15 days in Costa Rica, and her sister said she had investigated the area before traveling. 
"We thought it was okay, it was a peaceful place," Sarah Eagen said. "Now we have been informed that in the past two weeks there have been five other murders in the region." 
Sarah Eagen said she thinks it is wrong to send students ofT abroad on their own with no place to live. 
"Antioch dumps you with no place to live. llopefully due to this tragedy they will look into changing things," Sarah Eagen said. "We can't hold them responsible," she added. 
Penn State team protests flag 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
By taking a mostly Southern issue into Northern hands this past weekend, the Penn State baseball team raised awareness of the racism a century-old piece of heritage can still imply for some. In this case, the heritage was a reddish cloth with a blue "X" and white stars known as the Confederate flag. And when the team showed up to play against Winthrop University in Rock llill, S.C., Saturday, more than a few in the audience noticed the red wristbands each Nittany Lion wore to protest the prejudice commonly associated with the flag. "We just wanted to make a statement on how we felt about a flag that has a lot of different meanings, of course," Penn State infielder Willie Melendez said. The flag, which flies in many areas of the South but most noticeably on South Carolina's capitol building, has been the subject of many debates during the past few years. "I think you have to live here and be from this area to understand what proponents of the flag issue are thinking," said Winthrop University sports information director Jack Frost, originally from Kentucky. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeathcr®forecnst for daytime cnmlitinns and high temperntures 


Friday  u \.''''  65  52  
Saturday  ~  58  40  
Sunday  c:::1  57  40  
Monday  LJ  59  43  
Tues.day  d .,.,:-,. ..... ' '  59  42  

::}··'\'. 

.:;;:1,:;;A~A 6f. ~ i) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V,a Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Morgan State U. shuts down paper 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

When oJ'licials at Morgan State University stopped the presses of the student newspaper, they couldn't have forr.se<rn the reaction the administration would receive. Since the school pulled the plug on an issue of the newspaper, questions about the constitutional­ity of its action have reinvigorated a university press freedom debate. "It's so clear that school officials have violated the rirst Amendment," said Mike Hiestand, an attorney with the Student Press Law Center. "They stopped the presses without even see­ing the final product." The nr,wspaper, the Spokesman, is part of the student government system at Morgan State. The publication also receives a por­tion of its monetary support from student fees. The specific issue at the newspaper in question was a preview of the student government elections which did not include any sort of official endorsement, Hiestand said. "They were going to print what the editor described as fairly routine coverage of the election," Hiestand said. "They stopped short of run­ning any sort of endorsement." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 


v~a Assoc1a1ed Pmss  
Anchorage  41  29  Dllllas  85  62  New Orleans  79  61  
Berl<eley  59  49  Honolulu  81  66  New York  52  28  
Boston  53  37  Kansas City  71  50  Rapid City  71  58  
Boulder  55  31  Louisville  72  54  Savannah  74  53  
Chicago  64  51  Miami  79  69  Wash DC  68  47  

friday, March 24, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Couple wins first Hes burgh award for work in South Africa 

• Recipients began tondation in honor of slain daugter 
Hy KIFLIN TURNER 
News 'w'riter 
Notrn Danw's Centl'r for Ethics and Heligiom, Values in BusinPss nanwd Peter and Linda Birhl as recipients !'or the inau­gu nil llosburgh Award for l1usi1ws~. 
Thi' Bichls Dstablisbcd tlrn ,\my IJi<illl hJtmclation in memo­ry of th1iir daughter, a human rights advon,te murdered by a mob that stoned and stabbed lrnr lo dnath in tlrn township of (;uguletu. South Africa in 1993. 
"I think slw would bP glad to know that wn h,l\'I' the ·inncr­ca paci ty to con tin u n in lrnr work," Peter Biehl sc1icl. 
\Villi $:i00,000 in donations and $ I million in U.S. aid, as wPll as tlH' HinhJs' own contrihu­tions, tlw f'oundation provides musir. 11r1., l11!.orials and othflr programs in South Africa that provide students with the prepa­ration to 1mrstm n higher oduca­tion or lo acquire marketable skills. 
"We are l'ocus,~d on disadvan­taged and marginalized commu­nilil's." Mr. Biehl said. "We view businesses as a servant of mankind and bdiPve that busi­rwssPs should fw t·ommitted to social change." 
The idea of changing the role of businesses to take a more responsible foothold in rn-shap­ing society is a goal to which the Biehls remain committed. 
"When we hear the word poverty, we mean marginalized South African communities are desperately impoverished ­thcy·re impoverished in terms of acr.ess to mainstream develop­men ts in South Africa," Mr. Biehl said. 
The townships in South Afrira are impovorished, with poor school systems and other inl'ra­structur(i in bad shape. 
"As a consequence. these peo­plr, am impoverished in terms of potf'ntial carBers and impover­islrnd financially." Mr. Diehl said. 
The official unemployment rate ol' Soulh Africa is approxi­matf'ly 45 percent. But Mr. Biehl argued Lhal the real unemploy­nwnt rato is between 70 and 90 percnnl. 
"When we rel'er to business Pnterprises, we nil'er to grass­roots cntcrprisf's," said Mr. Biehl. Statistics show that betwcrnn 70 to 80 percent. of South Africans reside in disad­vantagod settings. 
''Wtl are trying to follow in Amv's r.ommitment to human rights. /\ person has a right to hope and dream," Mr. Biehl said. 
The foundation maintains a 
non-profit identity, meaning all Mr. Biehl said. "And we am then proceeds are funm~lnd back into capable of giving back to our programs such as violence pre­violence prevention programs ventiun. without creating a taxable event 
"We are trying to harness the to further the work in a disad­efficient powers of businesses to vantaged community." mi>et a purely social agenda." Lack of' affordable and accessi­Mr. Biehl said. "We have discov­ble groceries is another problem ered the value of harnessing that plagues South African com­busirrnsscs to sustain prnventa­munities, and which the Bichls tive violence measures in the said they hope to combat. community." "There's nothing more funda­
Housing and infrastructure montal to poor people than developments arc critical needs bread," Mr. Biehl said. "Bread is in South Africa. To help solve very important to the masses in them. tho Biehls founded con­South Africa. We're going to businesses. In work, even in its most basic lovels, thrro is digni­ty," he said. "In business, the daily struggle leaves no room for temptation." 
strucliun firms  bring bread  
that  provide  to 70 to 80  
concrete and other rare mate­rials. They also started a con­ "},Ve uiew businesses as a servant ofmankind and believe that businesses  percent of the com­munity. W e · r e  
struction  ser­ should be committed to  going to rlo  
vices unit to provide an edu­ social change. "  this by making  
cational  trust  b  r  e  a  d  
and  further  Peter Biehl  accessible.·•  
training fur its Pmpl.oyPes.  award recipient  In hopes of attaining  

The Biehls hope that by pro­viding the community with more educational and economic opportunities, the overall work rthic of the community will improve and strengtlrnn the relationships of the worknrs toward creating a more ef1icient and stable community. 
"Facing those who rely on you each day is good on building integrity," he said. "We find that selflessness requires self-esteem as a pre-requisite. Parl of the process of creating self1cssnoss is by first creating self-esteem. Our goal is to facilitate human improvement. restore hope and convert that hope to reality." 
The ceremony marks the sec­ond installment of thr, Frank Cahill Lecture Series. father Oliver Williams. a management professor. said the series, and the Hesburgh award will he!µ provide the Notre Dume r.ommu­nity with exemplary leaders in business. 
Amy Biehl who received a Fulbright Fellowship in 1993, was working on voter registra­tion projects was a Fulbright Fellowship recipient in 1993. She was in the process of work­ing on voter registration projects before South Africa's first-ever all-races election in that year. 
POLICE BLOTTER 
Public exposure 
Tuesday at 5:30 p.m, a Notre Dame student on a bicycle near Eck Tennis Pavillion reported harassment from a man in a white jeep with a black top. The man yelled at her, then exposed himself. Notre Dame Security/Police found tlw suspect, positively identified him along with the vehiclP and then arrested him !'or public indecently. 
He is being held in St Joseph County jail. Rex Hakow, director of Notre Dame Security/Police, linked the suspect to similar incidents last spring and urged any other victims to contact his office. 
cinema@thesnite 
"We have the opportunity to make the young managers an rquity in this busi­nP.ss," Mr. Biehl said. 
Their employees not only help to reconstruct the community, but they also have lhe opportu­nity to acquire skills to compete in an almost non-existent work­force. 
"We have learned to view business as a charity. We can organize charities that trade," 

this goal, the Biehls have establislrnd bak­eries that are designed to pro­duce 10,000 loaves a day. These bakeries are now among South Africa's largest baking business­es. 
The Community Baking Trust is a "satisfying way to do busi­ness," according to Mr. Biehl. 
"We have concluded that grass-roots leads to a rediscov­ery to the new empowerment of 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION NEEDS YOU TO 
WORK FOR 
REUNION 2000! 
(June 7-11) 
EARN MONEY AND HAVE FUN AT THE SAME TIME. SHUTTLE FOLKS AROUND CAMPUS, REGISTER GUESTS IN THE DORMS, CARE FOR CHILDREN AT THE CHILD CARE CENTER OR ASSIST AT REUNION HEADQUARTERS. THERE ARE MANY JOB OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE. 
-


Wminute~, 100,000 DM, and Iflame-haired Berlin punKette. 
''It moves with the zig•za,~ velocity ofan MTV fever 
•dream and 'resets' itself like acinematic Nimendo game. Breathless. 11 ~Emerrainmem Wuklv 
Fri. &Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. 
Friday, Sr,ecial Guest Proiectionist; Toomas Owen-LYnch Nelson 
presented by ND Film, Tclcvisi()n, and Theiitrc 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT STUDENT EMPLOYMENT 
(115 Main Building) 
OR THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION (100 Eck Center). 
(RETURN APPLICATIONS TO THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BY FRIDAY, MAY 5.) 
W\VW,nd.edu!-cothweb 
'1ft,c,.,;,, ~J re,~: If~»~;tt0>1;, 7,.~. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 24, .!.uuu 
tographs. The colors in the pho­
Beco01 
tographs are amazingly capti­continued from page I vating becausf\ of thf\ Mayan 
people's reliance on color people were forced to paint through diffenrnt stages of their churches white as a sign life. of purity for the Europeans. Before visiting the Mayans 
The only place where the in Mexico and Centrnl Mayans were able to show America. Beeom pho­their true artistic talents tographed the radiant without i.nhibitions was at the MeditRrranean architecture tomb uf a relative. Choosing of Europe. Although this is 
bl uc and green as the most his l'irst showing, lw is well appropri-known with­ate colors in his field f'or thP. "In i\tlayan. every shade and his work dead, thn has boen
ofblue and green is 
Mava11 shown on
simply one word -yax
pt' o· p I e Pl3S, accord­consid­-the color ofthe ing to Costa. Bridging
crnd death hem•ens and precious 
a transi­this exhibit 
water." 

and Urn last than an C u b a n (HHling to exhibit. Lim 
tion rather 
Jeffrey Becom 

lifo. S n i t r.
photographer

n Museum is Mayan. trying lo overv shade of blue and introduce gree,1 is simply one' word morn Latin American art. vax -the color of Urn hem·­"We've benn trying to do ~ns and precious water," said something v\ith Lalin Berom. Amnrican issues becausfl 
Becom spent two extended Notre Dame does have an trips. months at a tinrn, work­interest in Latin Amnrica," ing on tlrnse photographs of Moriarty said. This shnw the Mayan villages in Mexico brings new photographic ele­
and Central America. His wife nrnnts to the Snite while show­helps him with the books that ing the richness of a culture correspond to the pho-many consider long forgotten. 
Conference aims to interest girls in math and science 
Special co The Observer 
"Expanding Your Horizons." a career conference for 6th to 8th grade girls with an accompanying program for par­ents, will convene Saturday at 8 a.m. in the University of McKenna Hall, the Center for Continuing Education. 
The conference aims to increase young women's interest in mathematics and science and to make them more aware of career opportunities in math-and science-related fields. 
Some 200-250 girls from schools throughout northern Indiana will attend the conference. About 50-60 parents will participate in a separate program, which includes a panel discussion on "Women in Academia" and a session on "Preparing Your Daughters for College." 
The conference will include interactive workshops for the young participants in animal health sciences (handling live animals). computer sciences, business and finance, engi­neering, human health sciences, life sciences and physical sciences (with hands-on chemistry activities). Closing the program is a demonstration with live eagles by the Raptor Chapter from Auburn, Ind. 

Ave Maria prints book of essays 
Special to The Observer lime or another: facing suffer­love for his faith, his studm1ts, 
ing, true friendship, love and his teaching, the church, and 
"Keeping the Paith, Making a sex, marriage, the chalhmges of the priesthood is abundantly Difference" by Father Wilson Christian manhood and woman­cloar on each page." Miscamble, associate profossor hood today and the rnsponsibili­Miscamble has been a mem­of history at the University of ties of parenting." ber of the NotrP Dame faculty Notre Dame, has b<ien published A plainspoken Australian since 1988. Educat1id in lhn by Ave Maria Press. native, Father Miscamhle is a University of Queensland. from 
The book is comprised of 2(i popular teacher whosn homilies which he was graduated in 1973 nssays which grew out of homi-are as remarkabl1i for tlrnir and obtained a master's degr1·e 1ies and talks given by directness and simplicity as for three years later, lw came to Miscamblo to students at Notre their wide-ranging erudition. Notrn Damp in 11176 to pursuP Dame, where Im lives, lnachos llis sources l'or scriptural rnllec­graduate studies in history. history, ministers to studnnts tions include confessional auto­lie received his doctoral and regularly presides and biography; ancinnt and contem­degree in 1980, work<\d !'or two preaches at Mass in snvnral or porary theology; aphorisms of years as a North Ammie.an ana­tlw Univ1\rsity's rnsidrnce halls. Cicero, St. Thomas More and lyst for the Australian govNn­
Father MiscamblH describes George Bernard Shaw; such ment and returned to Notn\ thn collection as "a simpln hook films as "The Crad uatn," "One Dame to study for tlrn priest­about some significant nrnlters" Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nnst," hood in the Congregation of which addrP.sses not only Llw and "Saving Private Byan"; Holy Cross in 1982. Aftnr com­foundational doctrines of' papal encyclicals, curront nvnnts pleting his theological studies lw Christianity. bul also "a number and book reviews and articles in serverl as deacon in Sacred of more personal issues which scholarly and popular journals. Heart Parish at Notrn Danrn and my studrnt l'riends have raised Ar.cording to onc rnviPwer, was ordai1rnd to tlrn pril~sthood to me in various ways al one Jonathan Lang, "his onormous in 1988. 
Callahan 
continued from page I 

men. I decided Freud and Homanticism were wrong and that while gender differences do exist, you can either maximize or minimize them. 
In her own experiencn, Callahan said that friendship, man-iage and childbearing experi­ences had demystified gender for her. 
"l discovered gcndPr and sexuality do not solely determine a person's identity. Character 
is morn inf'luential," she said. 
If onn accepts that gender diffnrrrnc<1s arP minimal then then\ is hardly any r<1ason why women should not he ordained, Callahan said. As thesn gender roles loosen, somP people imagine that there is no reason to deny same sex marriagns. 
"I cannot agrne with a ban on [femalnl ordi­nation, contraception and homosexuality. 1 sPn these three issues as a tightly wrapped pack­age supporting each other." she said. "If you agree that marriage is fruitful in non-procre­ativn ways then you should support same sex marriages." 
CORRECTION 

An article in Thursday's Observer said that two students were arrested at Denny's Diner on Sunday, Feb. 27. There were four students arrested that night. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Fo. ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or K1ubeck.1@nd.edu 

orld 


Friday, March 24, 2000 COMPil,EO FHOM THE 0RSEHVER WIHE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Taiwan president leaves party post after political upset 
TAIPEI 

Taiwan's prPsidnnt resignPd as leader of tho ruling NaLionalisl !'arty on Friday, bncoming thP biggl'sl vil'tim of' tlw opposition's stunning ups<>t in Taiwan's pn·sidPntial nlN·tions. Sine<' Llw party's humiliating ci<•foat in Saturday's l'(prlion. proiPSi<'rs hav(' dPmonslrated out­sick tlw :\:ational ists· IH•aclquartPrs. demand­ing Lhat Pn•sidPnl I.PP Tt>ng-hui resign immr­diatP!y as party ('hairman. I.Pl', who has ]pd Taiwan !'or I~ VPars. had ofTPrnd to sl<'p down in SPptPmbPr·. Thl'n on Thursday. lw told party IPac!Prs hP \\·ould rPsign today. VicP l'rPsidPnt l.iPn Chan. who f'inishPd a distant third in thP prPsidPntial votP. vrns to S(\l"VP as thP party's ,Lrling t"hairman. Although thr nwdia clubbPcl IP<' "Mr. lkmocracv" b1•r,wse h1· fHPsidPd ov1•r Tah\an's d;•mocratic n•f'orms. hr rult'd his party likP an authoritar­ian. 
Justice department team to question Pinochet aides 
SANTIA(;O. Chik 
. \ l .S. .l usticc· IlPpart nwnt lPam is in Chill' to follow Llw qut>slioning of' top aidPs from f'or­nwr dirlator (;(•11 ..\ugusto Pinodwt's rrginrn O\'N a 1'176 assassination in Washington, offi­rials said Thursc!av. Tlw UnitPd States had l'l'(jll!'StPd tlw inll•rr:ogalions in its bid to push J'onrnrd thP long-opPn investigation into the killing of' Orlando l.dPlicr. a l'ormr,r Cabinet mPmbcr and l'inoclwt opponent. Leteli<H", also a l'orm<'r cnvoy to Washington. and an .\nwriran aidP. l!oni MolTiLt. WPrr killrd by a bomb that blrw up their l'ar in SPptember 
l 97(1. Thi• killing was trnc(\d Lo PinochPl's fparPd s11crf't police. ThP questioning ol' th(~ 42 civilian and militarv officials starts nPxt W(\£!k. tlw Suprrnw Court·said Thursday. 
Crew abandons sinking Greek cargo ship 
llt\MILTON, Bermuda 
A c;rpch: cargo ship with :n crnw m<'mbnrs aboard sank in tlw Atlantic Ocran more than 400 milns off of' Brrmuda on Thursday. forcing Llw sailors lo Lakt• lo lifoboats and wait on rough sPas for rnsrnPrs still hours awav. ThP 77(>-f'oot Lradrr L scnl out a dislrnss ntll at 1 :32 p.m. EST that it was laking on watPr through a 45­!'oot gash in tlw starboard side of the hull, said Allison von llagn. a U.S. Coast Guard spokes­woman in Nnrf'olk. Virginia. The crew bPgan abandoning ship. Thr Coast Guard confirmed that tlrn ship sank northeast of Bermuda. but it has not bnrn ab]P to drtnrminn whethrr all 31 crnw nwmbp1·s mad;-it into their lifeboats. 
lifi,,i,fliiWMMM 
AMEX:

Dow 
I 036.4 +6.16

JONES 
+253.16 "'iasdaq: 4940.61 -'-7'.86 
NYSE 

~ 
652.J I 
;-l) ()7 

S&P 500: Composite 1527.35 Volume:

11119.86 +26.71 I ,O<iJ,230,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY  TICKfiR  '\ CHANGE  I CHMGR  PRICE  
cuco SIYSTEMS  csco  +7. 79  +S.6225  77 .81  
M!CROSOFT  CORP  MSFT  . 8. 36  +8.6300  111.BB  
COMPAQ  COMPUTER  CPO  -7. JS  -2. 3700  29. BB  
,OCl:NT  TECH  INC  LU  +4.19  +2. 6250  65. 25  
W~I  WO.!lLDCOM  IN  WCOM  -1. 71  -0.7475  42 .94  
ORAC'I,B CORP !NTEL CORP  ORCL,.'TC  . 3.:3:i ~1.00  •2.8175 ~l.4425  86 .98 U2.62  
DELI.  ".'OMP'UTER  DELt.  -1. 08  -Q. 6250  57 .so  
QUALCOMM  lNC  QCOM  +6, 85  +9.2450  144.12  
UIGEN  INC  AMGN  -6. 57  -4. 0600  5,7 .69  

INDIA 

The violence in Kashmir spilled Sikh village of Chati Singhpurn. 40 Associated Press over to New Delhi. where angry Sikh miles south of Srinagar. protesters torched two buses, but Ali said Yaqub has not yet been SRINAGAR police there managed to contain the charged in the case and will be inter­
Police detained a Kashmiri man crowds. rogated today. Thursday after survivors of a mas­The violence left more than 100 Authorities say they fear religious sacre of 40 Sikhs told police he had police and demonstrators injured, dashes in Kashmir. shown the killers the wav to their vil­which added to the troubles that have Jammu. which is less than 20 miles lage. a police official said: dogged President Clinton's visit to from the Pakistani border, is the only 
The arrest came as thousands of India. Muslim majority state in Hindu­Sikhs with iron bars, swords and Police Deputy Inspector General majority India. sticks stormed through Jammu. the Raja Aijaz Ali said it was unlikely that During the 10-yPar separatist insur­winter capital of Kashmir. to protest Muhammad Yaqub -picked up gency. more than 25.000 people have Mondav·s massacre. Thursday when he visited the Sikh vil­died and hundreds of thousands of 
Som~ Sikhs beat policemen on the lage where the massacre took place Hindus have been driven from their six-mile march to Jammu and shout­-was a member of a Kashmiri sepa­homes. But Monday's massacre was ed "blood for blood!", demanding ratist rebel group. the first time Sikhs have been target­retaliation against Pakistan-based "There are lots of missing links and ed. Muslim militants accused of Monday's we will have to wait until we question The two main Pakistan-based mili­slaughter. The marchers defied a cur­him," Ali s'trid, noting that at least two tant groups and Pakistan's govern­few, and an ord<'r to shoot curfew people had identified Yaqub, 21. as ment have denied involvrment in the breakers on sight. the man who led killers to the mainly killings. 
NORTHERN IRELAND 
Critic challenges Trimble for leader~hip 
alliance with the outlawed the backing of a "signifi­Trimble has struggled to 
Associated Press 
Irish Republican Army. cant" number of party sup­keep the support of party
BELFAST 

Sinn Fein "still have not porters. dissenters throughout nego­
A Protestant critic of 
been prepared to go forth It is Smyth's second tiations that led to the 1998 
Northern Ireland's peace 
as bona !ide democrats," he attempt to win the leader­peace accord and last 
settlement announced 
told the British ship. rfo lost to Trimble five year's establishment of a 
Thursdav he would trv to 
Broadr.asting Corp. years ago when James four-party Catholir:­
oust David Trimble from 
"They are hiding behind Molyneaux resigned. Protestant coalition admin­
leadership of the province's 
the figment of imagination Trimble, a central figure istration for the province.
largest party, the Ulster 
that they actually cannot in the Northern Ireland He shared a Nobel Peace 
Unionists. 
speak for the IHA when we peace process, said he was Prize that vear for his 
Ulster Unionist Martin 
all kno'w that they are an "somewhat surprised and a efforts. · 
Smvth, South Belfast mem­
inseparable body," Smyth little bit disappointed" by The new Cabinet -which 
be/ of Parliament, said he 
said. the challenge. but that he includes Sinn Fein -was 
opposes involvement of the 
Sm\'lh, 69. said he would hoped it would "finally clear suspended Feb. 11 when 
Sinn Fein Party in a 
challenge Trimble at the air." He said he trusted Ulster Unionists threatened 
Northern Ireland power­
Saturday's meeting of the delegates at the council to resign their posts over 
sharing government 
Ulster Unionists' 858-mem­would endorse a continua­the JRA's failure to hand 
because of the party's 
ber council and that he had tion of party policy. over any weapons. 

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 24, 2000 
Ohio sixth-grader holds classmates at gunpoint 
Associated Press 
LISBON, Ohio 
A 12-ycar-old who told authorities he wanted to be with his mother in jail brieOy held his sixth-grade class at gunpoint Thursday lrnf'ore a teacher persuaded him to give up the weapon. 
No one was hurt and no charges were immediately filed against the 
bov. who w,ts takl•n 
Mich.
into custodv. 
ThP b;>y said "his biological mother was in jail and he wanted to visit her. lw with her." s a i d Anthony 
Krukowskf. s tqwri ntP n­dP nt ol' Lisbon schools. 
Police Sgt. Fred Carlisle confirmed tlrn boy wantPd to reunite with his mother. "Yes, that's what he told a teaclH\r and one of the police of'licers," he said. 
The boy's father told police thr \.\'eapon --a loaded, 9 mm semiautomatic -had been stored on a dresser top with a fully engagerl trigger lock. 
Pulice Chief John Higgins, who would not disclose the Loy's name because he is a juvr.nile. said the boy appar­ently found the key and removed the trigger lock. 

About 8:45 a.m., the boy stood up in his classroom at McKinley Elementary School, pointed the gun at the l'loor and told his fellow students and teacher to get down, Higgins and Krukowski said. 
"It seemed like forever we were sitting on the ground. It was probably a few minutcs,"said the teacher, Dan Kemats, 24. 
A student in the hall over­he a rd the exchange and sum­mon c d another teacher, Linda Bobb, Krukowski said. 
Hobb stood in tlrn door­way of the rlassroom and askocl tho boy if she could talk to him. 
AP The two walked out into the hall­
way and hugged, and the boy handed tlrn gun over to Hobb, police said. 
Tlw student was taken into custody by police in this city, which is about 25 miles south of Youngstown in northeastern Ohio. near the West Virginia and Pennsylvania state linm,. 
The Vindicator of Youngstown reported that the boy was on crossing duty with another sixth-grader, Katie Hartman, on Thursday morn­ing. The girl said that at the end of their duty the boy told 
her: "Goodbye, Katie. I won't garten through sixth grade. paigning at a Cincinnati ele­be back." will be closed on Friday but mentary school, said the inci­She asked what he meant, will be open for student coun­d nn t "once again raises the but he didn't answer. seling. question that has confronted us 
Sixth-graders were sent "Naturally the students were so often in the past year or two home, but tho other students shook up, any time you have an or three. That is, how can wn were kept in class because the incident like that," Krukowski all come together to give our district didn't want younger said. children better values?" children going home without Krukowski said Im wasn't Gore said the student's making sum their parents Vl~ry familiar with the boy and accAss to a firearm points out knew. Krukowski said. was unaware of anv behavior the need for gun control mea­
The school, which has about problems. · sures such as child-safety trig­(>50 studonts from kinder-Vien Prcsi<font Al Gorn, earn-g<•r locks. 
QUALITY Service• Student Di ounts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
For Your Best Tan Ever! What's Your Plan? Get a Fun Tan! 
1111 
© 1985 FUN TAN, INC. 

NEW UNIVERSITY LOCATION! 
We've kicked open the doors at the new FUN TAN University facility on the corner of 23 and Ironwood! Near Kinkos. FUN TAN brings you the newest innovations in designer tanning with beds and booths that deliver 40% more tanning rays than any other· bed on the market!! 
Why settle for less? 

272-7653 NEW University Lo..:ation State Road 23 & Ironwood 256-9656 Corner of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood 

Friday, March 24, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Researcher: Hunting cause of Moa extinction 
Assocaa1ed Press 
W/\SIIINCTON 

TIH\ lirst humans arrived in New Zealand about the year 12:i0. bringing \Vilh them sharp stmw points, wood and borH' clubs. c:ontrollPd firo and a natural hunger for 
nwat. 
Tlwy found on the two pris­ti 11 P South Pacific islands hugP numlwrs of Moas, night­lPss birds that ranged up 1o 440 pounds. Tlw animals had rwvcr s,•en ptioplP and. thus, had no snnsr of how danger• ous humans could be. Tiley wi•rP easy prny lo tlH! snarns und r.lubs of' hungry hunters. 
A nC\'\' study suggests llrn rPsult was n quick pxtinctinn !'or all 11 sµ,iciPs of the Moa, along with th«\ disappearancr. of' many oth<'r NPw Zoaland plants 0:nd animals. 
In a study appnaring Friday in Science. two New Znaland rnsearclwrs suggest that humans may killed off all of thl' Moa. pl'rhaps in only about (i() yc1ars. 
"TlwrP has bPml a debate as Lo wlwther humans can oxter-
THE 

minate anything by hunting," said Richard lloldaway of Palaf1col fiesc~arch in Christchurch, New Zealand. "Our stu<lv shows that not only can pe.oplP hunt things to extinction, but they can do il very quickly." 
M oa prnviously · lrnd born thought lu have disappeared over about 1,000 years, but tlrn study by lloldaway and Christopher Jacomb or Cnntcrburv Museum in Christcl111r~:h indicates that 
the  damage  took  only  
decades.  
Holdaway  said  the  Moa  

wr.rc primed for extinction. The 11 species ranged from llirds that stood 6 1/2 feet tall and weighed hundrnds of' µounds lo Lurkey·sizrd fowl. They were the only known feathered birds without wings. Their fatal characteris­tic may have been a lack of fear or'humans. 
"They would have been very r.asy to kill." said !foldaway. One expert suggests obtaining a Mou for dinner would have b!-rnn "like plucking fruit" for the stone-age hunters. 
TASTY 
/\ study of' the bones  ........,  
and other debris scat­ No more Moa 
terer! about ancient  
human camp sites in New  New Zealand was home to the  
Zealand shows that Moa  Moa when the first humans  Weight:  
was "a major source of  arrived there around A.D. 1250  up to 440  
food for these people,  the birds were a major source  pounds  Height:  
providing :w to 40 per·  of food for the settlers and  up to  
cent of their caloric  were hunted to extinction  6.5 feet  
intake," saicl Iloldaway.  within 160 years. There  
But that only lastr.d for  were 11 species living  
a few decades, he said.  
in forest and ~~;.:,:..NORTH 
Eventually, Moa bones  grasslands of NEW ••··.· · <ASL.4ND 

b!:'came rarrr and tlwn  both islands.  ZEALA  ....  
disappeared altogether  
from the geologic record.  
Holdaway believes New  
Zealand settlers hunted  
them to death.  
"In effect, the re was  
the removal of a com­ 
plete ecosystr.m within  
160 years or less," saicl  
lloldawav. lie said the  
Moa could have disap- 
Source: Science  
pcarcd in just 60 years.  
The conclusion bv  

Holdaway and Jacomb is con­"There are extinctions that sidered controversial among have followed hard on the experts because of .its speed heels of human arrivals, but and because some doubt that as to it being caused by hunt· hunting alone is ever suffi· ing alone, that doesn't seem cient to wipe out whole plausible," said Ross species. MacPhee, a zoologist at the 
BACON 

American Museum of Natural History. "There must have been co·factors, such as disease." 
MacPhee said that vast numbers of extinctions occurred after humans arrived in the Americas. Animals such as the mammoth, the camel, 
the horse and the sabertooth tiger all
CHEDDAR WHOPPER: 
disappeared after humans arrived about 11,000 years ago. But he said the extinctions took 
about 400 years, not the short period that Holdaway is propos­ing for the Moa in New Zealand. 
Holdaway said that 

THINK OF IT AS A WHOPPER® THAT'S 
DRESSED UP WITH SOMEPLACE TO GO. 
one reason for the rapid loss of the Moa was that the bird lived for a long peri­od of time and repro­duced infrequently. When humans start­ed killing the adults 
AP 

and eating the Moa eggs, he said, the population crashed quickly. 
"We think this shows that when you push things too hard, you get to a point where it suddenly falls down," he said. "You may not even notice what is happening until it is too late." 
Holdaway said the first New Zealand settlers, Polynesians who are the ancestors of the present-day Maori, arrived about 1250. 
They brought with them not only weapons, but also egg­eating rats that contributed to the widespread New Zealand extinctions. 
Within only a few decades, the Moa were gone, along with many ground birds, frogs and snakes. History's largest eagle, a 35-pound bird called Haast's eagle, was gone. 
The settlers used fire as a weapon and tool, burning into extinction an entire forest that was then replaced by grassland. An estimated 40 percent of the woody plants became extinct, said Holdaway, and this destroyed habitats. 
By the time Europeans arrived in New Zealand, in the 18th century, hundreds of animals and plants were gone forever, said Holdaway. 
Foik Nominations Invited 


The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee invites nominees for the award, which is given annually to a library faculty member who has contributed significantly to library service to the Notre Dame community or. to the library profession through personalscholarshiporinvolvement in professional associations. The award is named for the Holy Cross priest who served as director of Notre Dame's library from 1912 to 1924and was a leading figure in the library profession in the first quarter of the 20th century. It is among those announced at the President's faculty 
di_l)l1er in May. Recent winners have 
in~foded Dwighl'l<ing, Jr., Head of 
Research Department, Law Library, 
Stephen Hayes, Business Services 
Librarian, and Katharina Blackstead, 
Library Advancement Officer. These 
three past recipients will serve on the 
award committee. 
All members of the University THE WHOPPER' WITH A NEW TWIST FOR A LIMITED TIME. 

Libraries' and Law Library faculty with two or more years' service are
If you're already a fan of ''America's Favorite Burger,"· why not try it a whole new way? 
eligible. Please send names of nominees, including a letter or other supporting docwnentation, to the 
With crispy bacon and melted cheddar cheese. it's sure to put a smile on your face. 
So head to a BURGER KING~ restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee, c/o Larry Rapagnani, 
Office ofInformation Technology, by March 31. 
-· . --·--------•-·------------------------~ 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
_______________,
'-------------------------·----­

Friday, March 24, 2000 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
If vou have anv QUESTIONS:p1ease-;C8II Rob Kellv in the ADMISSIONS OFFICE @1-4419 
GERMANY 

Ex-slaves receive payments 
. Negotiators reach decision on method for distributing $5M to victims of Nazis 
Associated Press 
RERUN 
Ni>gotiators agreed today on how to allocate the money from a $5 billion fund tu com­pensate Nazi-era slave and 
forced  
laborers,  See Also  
resolving the last  "Citizens await  
m  a j  o r  pontiff's reflections  
point  of  on Holocaust"  
C  O  n  - 
t e n t i o n  page 9  
a  f  t  e  r  

months of negotiations. 
The agreement would allo­cate $4 billion for compensat­ing slave and forced labor vic­tims and another $500 million to cover claims for property, bank accounts and i.nsurance policies stolen by the Nazis as well as "humanitarian cases," said Deputy Treasury Secretary Stuart Eizenstat, the 
U.S. government envoy to the talks. 
Estimates of how many peo­ple could benefit range from 800,000 to 2.3 million. Most are non-Jews from Eastern Europe who had been left out of previous compensation efforts because they were behind the Iron Curtain. 
Lnder the deal. slave labor­ers -those who were put to 
~Studentsw one of ~,If you can 
rke/1 
~trli Please i < 
~ 
stat 
~-l] .,
~Aconfirma to you 

work in concentration camps and expected Lo die doing their jobs -would receive up to $7,500 each. Forced laborers, wlw worked in factories out­side camps. would get up to $2.500 each. 
"We have taken a huge step forward today," Eizenstat said. "This brings this process a substantial step closer to com­pletion." 
Another $350 million will be used for a foundation to spon­sor research and educational projects around the theme of Nazi labor, with the remainder 
going for administra­tive costs and legal foes. 
All sides agreed in December on the size of the fund, to be financed half by the German gov­ernment and half by indus­try. But nego­
tiators had bAen wrangling over how to divide the money among the various groups to be covered. 
Noah Flug, an Auschwitz survivor who heads an umbrel­la organization of Holocaust survivor groups in Israel and was one of the negotiators, said two-thirds of the people who could have been eligible for the fund had already died. 
"It is better late than never," Flug, 75, said today. 
"We have taken a huge step forward today. This brings this process a substantial step closer to completion." 
Stuart Eizenstat 
U.S. government envoy for negotiations 

Rabbi Michael Melchior, 
Israeli minister for diaspora 
affairs, said it was a fair com­.promise. 
"What I think won out, in the 
end, was a settlement where 
there is a strong sense of 
morality and something that 
should be done." he said in 
Jerusalem. 

Eastern European countries 
had been pushing to get the 
most money possible to cover 
victims of the Nazi labor prac­
tices, while (;erman industry 
insisted that the foundation for 
future projects was an integral 
enact legislation creating the foundation. Ile emphasized that it must conform exactly to the principles agreed to in the talks if German businesses are to get the legal relief they are seeking. 
"If it does not incorporate the substance of the agree­ments reached here. it will not be deemed to be sufficient basis for dismissal of the law­suits or for the U.S. to act in support of that goal," he said. 
part of the effort. .Jewish groups had wanted to make sure an appropriate 
amount was 
allocated for property claims. 
Eizenstat said it was now up to the German gov­ernment to 
MEXICO 

Gunmen attack federal agent, kill bodyguard 
Associated Press 

MEXICO CITY 
Gunmen opened firn at a former federal agent report­edly accused of having drug ties and three others as they entered a hotel in Mexico City on Thursday. The agen­t's bodyguard was killed, and the agent and two oth­ers were wounded. 
Cuauhtemoc Herrera Suastegui, a former official with the organized crime unit of the Mexican attorney general's ()ffiee, was enter­ing the Imperial Hotel with his bodyguard and two women when four assailants, two outside and two inside, began to shoot, officials said. 
The bodyguard, whom offi­cials identified as Sergio Alberto Chavez, died at the scene. Orlkials initially said that llerrera had died. 
Later, Mariano Herran Salvatti, who leads the anti-
Full Tuition Scholarshi 
Through the Navy ROTC Program Scholarships are currently available for sophomore students in one of the following majors: Engineering, Mathematics, Computer Science, Physics, Chemistry To be eligible, a student must have a cumulative GPA of 3.00 
or greater. Contact Lieutenant David Rowland of the Navy ROTC unit at 631-6061 orb email at Rowland.9@nd.edu. 
into ctdrawing for 
'<:·>: ·-_··-·:·-·--,_··.·­
.. .-;<and your home 


drug operations or the Mexican attorney general's office, told t.he Televisa net­work in a live interview that Herrera was alive and in stable condition at a city hospital. The two women also were hospitalized. 
Six people were detained, including the hotel manager. Authorities believed a sev­enth person fled the scene. 
Herrera, who resigned from the attorney general's office on Jan. I4, was under investigation for possible links to the powerful Juarez drug cartel, the daily news­paper La Cronica reported Monday and Thursday. 
Herran Salvatti was quot­ed by the newspaper on Thursday as saying that Herrera had been asked to respond to the allegations this week. 
IIcrrera was linked to the cartel by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, La Cronica rcportc~d. 
page 9

Friday, March 24, 2000 The Observt'r . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
ISRAEL 
Citizens await pontiff's 
reflections on Holocaust 

Associated Press 

JE!1USALEM
INFOF=IMATIONAL 
It is a stop nParly every state 
visitor to Israel makes, a virtual 
moral requirement of any itiner­
ary. Yet never will the symbol­
ism be so grnat as when Pope John Paul II SP.ts foot today on the soil of the Yad Vas hem memorial to the Holocaust. 
For Israelis, it should be the emotional high point of the pon­tif'fs weeklong trip. Many are hoping he'll do something a pope has never done before: 
MEETING 

cn=>eN TCJ ALL eNC31NeeFtlNG. 
make a direct apology for the 
AMEFIIC::AN STWCJIES, ANCJ 
Catholic Church's public silence during the Ilolocaust.
BUSINESS MA-lCJAS 
Some hope he'll go even fur­ther and criticize Pope Pius Xl I. the wartime pontiff that many Jews accuse of doing little while the Nazis exterminated their brethren. But students of the Vatican say that is highly unlikely. 
The Vatican has said Pius' diplomatic silence during World War II actually 



"/ can stand before him ... in
helped c a I l y save thou­my holy city ofJerusalem, to important sands of for Israel
look him straight in the eye and 
Jewish as Wed­
say to him: 'The vision ofthe
lives. He is nesday being con­Prophet Ezekiel that the dry was for the sidered for Palestin­
bones will come to life is taking
beatifica­ians.
place before our eyes. "' 
tion, to the In his dismay of only day in manv in Jewish
Meir Israel Lau 
Israei. w e s t
rabbi and Holocaust survivor 
i~ !jI I I ~-­I I I I)..._I ;I jtI II ~ I I ~ I I --~ I I:1 I I I I C I I I 0I I I .\:: ~  SCHEDULE OF EVENTS  
Saturday, March 25 Indian Assoc. of Notre Dame -"Bhangra Night" Lafortune Ballroom 9 pm -2 am Sunday, March 26 International Village Monday, March Z7 Lafortune Ballroom II arn -S pm (Sunday) 9 am -5 pm (Monday) lnfe!n'lfion81 Retreshmenfs w,I/ be seNed Tuesday, March 28 P.ikistan Assoc. -An lntrodudion to Cricket Center For .Social Concerns 5.30 pm Wednesday, March 29 International Film -".Secrets of Wornen" (Sweden) Montgomery Theater 8 prn ! FREE I I Thursday, March 30 No-fre Dame United Muslim Assoc. -"lion I of the Desert" (filrn) Montgomery Theater 8 pm I I FREE I  
I. I I I c-c: I I ~u iI .-;. I +; '1  Friday, March 31 Jackie Chan Movie Matinee -"Police Force· Montgomery Theater 2 pm FREE Saturday, April I Family Movie Matinee -"Anas+asia" Montgomery Theater 2 pm FREE Ilntema+ional ,£"ports Tournament ! £occer, Badmin-lon, Volleyball &-Ping Pong  
Rolfs Sports Center 7 i,rn -10.30 pm  
~~  Jatl\. '-"' ~e1t. a. wuk $~ ~w,. tuit/t =ce. ~­€,~-cu.f.6 Cl.Ni  
~f-4 fp)m. l'W!lUlld. th.ti. woitl!d. I  
I  
G/_&,i,,ersil/1 ef..Nolrr! !!/)ame  
I I  Bptm.Yl'red IJy fie ©.Jftce if§nlernatitmaf Bludenl .JII..Jfairs  

The pope began his day, the fourth of his weeklong pilgrimage, by celebrating a 90­minute Mass for clergy at the traditional site of the Last Supper on Mount Zion just out­side Jerusalem's Old City. 
Toward the end of the cere­mony, John Paul was left alone in the grotto-like chamber where tradition says Jesus shared his last meal with his disciples. Sitting in a gold-and­white chair before a small altar, the white-robed pope buried his face in his hands and sat motionless for a few moments. 
The pope's next stop was a meeting with Israel's two chief rabbis, Meir Israel Lau and Eliyahu Bakshi-Doron, at their office in west Jerusalem, ahead of what many Israelis feel is the most important element of the trip -the visit to Yad Vashem. 
The Polish-born Lau, a sur­
vivor of the Nazi concentration 
camp of Buchenwald, has said 
he had high expectations of the 
pope's speech at Yad Vashcm, 
monument to six million Jews 
who perished in the Holocaust. 
The rabbi said the pope's visit 
in itself was of great symbolic 
importance to the JP-wish peo­
ple. "I can stand before him in 
my home, my national home, in 
my holy city of Jerusalem, to 
look him straight in the eye and 
say to him: "The vision of the 
Prophet Ezekiel that the dry 
bones will come to life is taking 
place before our eyes."" 
Meir Gorsky, a professor of 
dentistry who lives near Tel 
Aviv, said he was sure the pope 
will say something about the 
r.hurch"s role during the 
Holocaust, and that "it will be 
great." 
Gorskv will be there to hear it firsthai1d. Tho pope, a dear childhood l'riAnd of Gorsky's late father, Leon (;oldbcrgcr. has made a special request that Gorsky come and meet him. 
"I'm· nially looking forward to meeting him," Gorsky said in a telephone interview. "lie is nice, gentle, friendly. And hr. didn"t have to do this. 1le is reallv sun~ that he loves Jewish people." 
Gorsky said his father and the pontiff, tlrnn simply Karol Wojtyla, were soccer buddies in Wadowice, Poland, each playing goalkeeper for opposing teams. Karol would often have Sabbath dinner at his Je,.vish f'riend"s home, h,~ said. 
When his father visited the 
pope at the Vatican many years 
later, Gorsky said, the pope 
looked at the broadly built man 
and said, "l can see why you 
wern a good goalkeeper." The 
pontiff also told Goldberger not 
to call him "Your Holiness" -it 
was too formal. 
Gorsky, 54, said his father 
also played the piano as a 
youngster -and the pope sang 
along. 
Along with Gorsky, some 20 
other former friends from 
Wadowice are expected to 
reunite with the pontiff today, a 
day that is 
as symboli­
Jerusalem, 

the pontiff will also meet President Ezer Weizman. Some, like Habbi David Rosen of the Anti­Defamation League, see the meeting with Weizman as the most important event because it would be "a recognition of the transformation of the Catholic Church's attitude toward the Jewish people in the land of Israel." 
During the last papal visit in 1964, Pope Paul VI never ven­tured into west Jerusalem and never publicly uttered lsrael"s name. 
On Wednesday, the pope visit­ed the cradle of Christianity, cel­ebrating Mass in Bethlehem's Manger Square. 
But as expected, the day was a potent mix of prayers and pol­itics. John Paul gave a forceful speech in the presence ofYasser Arafat, during which he recog­nized the Palestinians' "legiti­mate aspirations" and thnir "natural right to a homeland." 
The Palestinians prP-sented 

him with a golden bowl of soil, 
to which the pontiff briefly 
touched his lips. 
The pope's spokesman par­

ried suggestions that he was 
endorsing a Palestinian state, 
saying such a state has not yet 
been proclaimP-d and that the 
Vatican would consider the 
issue wlrnn it happened. 
Later in the day, John Paul 

showed sympathy with 
Palestlnian refugees from tlrn 
1948 Mideast war, visiting the 
Dheisheh camp near 
Bethlehem. 
The visit was a peaceful one, 

and especially satisfying for 
Arafat, who beamed alongside 
the pope as he spoke. 
page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 24, 2000 
Hastert names priest 
House chaplain 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

For the first time. a Roman Catholic priest now holds the title of Hous!" chaplain. ending a fractious selection process that embroiled the Republican Party in allegations it was biased against Catholics. 
Speaker D1rnnis Hastert on Thursday named thf' Rev. Daniel Coughlin, the vicar for priests in the Chicago archdio­cese. as chaplain. 
Hastert and Republicans have been under firP since late last year when they announced the selection of the Rev. Charles Wright. a Presbyterian minister. for the position. 
Democrats insisted that a Catholic priest, the Rev. Timothy O'13rien, was the top choice of a bipartisan selection committee. Hastert has main­tained he was unaware of any ranking. 
For four months, the issue raged as some Democrats and Roman Catholics fin,ct rharges of an anti-Catholic bias. GOP strategists fretted about the impact of such allegations, par­ticularly given that Catholics make up more than 25 percent of the electorate. 
In ending the controversy, Hastert accused Democrats of playing an "unseemly political game" by claiming religious bias. 
"I am a patient man," said the Illinois Republican, who took office 15 months ago with a pledge to lower the level of acri­mony in the House. "But even I did not easilv take in stride carelessly tossed accusations of bigotry:·· 
Coughlin's appointment seemed to quiet the brouhaha for the time being. He won bipartisan applause on the House floor. a sharp contrast to the partisan struggle that prompted Wright to withdraw Tuesday. 
Coughlin. who flew to Washington on Thursday and was quickly sworn in. called his appointment "terribly unexpect­
d ,. 
e . 
He told reporters the united States stood for "unity mixed with diversity." 
William Donohue. president of the 350.000-member Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights. said the group had been "dismayed by the way Republicans handled this mat­ter" but "we have no interest in fighting this fight any longer and we commend House Speaker Dennis Hastert for brin,,ging this chapter to an end. 
Deal Hudson. editor and pub­lisher of Crisis, a magazine of politics, culture and the Catholic church, said Hastert clearly sent a message to Catholics with the selection of Coughlin, who hails from largest Catholic diocese in the nation. 
The selection helps "refute the notion that somehow Hcpublicans are country club Protestants who cannnt include Catholics within their ranks," Hudsnn said. 
ThA House has never had a Catholic chaplain; the Senate had one in 1832 but he was un the job only a year. 
Coughlin's duties, in addition to opening each day's session with prayer. will be to minister lo llouse members and their families. 
Vfright, his nomination in limbo for months, met privately with Hastert in the Capitol on Tuesday and offered to with­draw. In a letter released by the speaker's office, he referred to the political controversy. "Let us be thankful that God is not an independent, not a Democrat and not a Republican. He is for all ofus," he wrote. 
In a somber speech on the House floor where he retraced the controversy and responded to critics, Hastert commented that those charging bias "don't know me or are maliciously seeking political advantage by making these accusations." 
"l have never said and I never believed that there was a bias involved in the making of this selection," llouse Democratic leader Dick Gephardt said moments later. 
Wright's nomination emerged in October from a bipartisan committee of lawmakers, but Hastert has the authority to name a chaplain himself. 
Rep. Earl Pomeroy. D-N.D., offered a resolution shortly after Coughlin's nomination that would require that future chap­lains be voted on by the House. 
REAL ESTATE TRAINING CENTER ­Presents ­
Indiana Real Estate License Course 
Real Estate licensing classes will be held each Tuesday and Thursday evening, be­ginning April 11 and running through June 
8. Class times are .7..IW!h..UDtil 10 p.m. 
• 
£am extra income by becoming licensed and amemberofour referral uet­work, or talk to us about a Real Estate career. 

• 
Class fee is $349.00 . A $100.00 deposit required with enrollment. Balance due fi.rst day ofclass. 


Classes to be held at the Continuing Education Building, University ofNotre Dame 
Send deposit payable to Coldwell Banker, Attn. MMangold, 1807 South Bend Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46637 
Certificate 


Real Estate Training Center 
SS0.00 tuinon discount with student or faculty I.fl Authoriz.ed by: Michael ).-1, ManKokl 
&,-~1,.?CIIIO 
Space warranty to expire 
. NASA's station remains unoccupied after 500 days aloft 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
1'ASA's space station war­ranty runs out this week, and the agimcy is no closer to fin­ishing the project than it was when the first two pieces rock­elr,d into orbit in 1998. 
Mt.er almost 500 days aloft. tlw international spaco station has no occupants. nn experi­ments, no firm assr,rnbly plans. Instead, it's a barren two­roomer with bad batteries, noisy c-iquipment and poor ven­tilation. 
Blame the Russians: They wern supposed to launch a ser­vice module that would assume control of the station and provide living quarters just livr, months af'ter the ini­tial components soared. but they have been stymied by insufficient funds and malfunc­tioning rorkets. 
As a result, the all-important third component, the Zvezda service module, will not fly before July and astronauts and cosmonauts will not move in until October -at the earliest. 
In the meantime, the war­ranty for what's in orbit is expiring. And that has space shuttle astronauts nying to the rescue next month. 
The 496-day guarantee for Russian-built electronic equip­ment runs out Thursday, according to figures provided last year by then-station man­ager Frank Culbertson, an astronaut who will command a future station crew. 
NASA expects the space sta­tinn tn keep running normally until astronauts arrive in mid­to late April with new batter­ies, fans, air filters, lire extin­

guishcrs and smoke detectors. you know with your automo­
The astronauts were supposed bile, it may break a day aftnr to wait until the service mod­you drive it out of the show­ule was in place. but with the room and it may run for warranty expiring and batter­100,000 miles." ies failing, NASA moved up the Built by Russians with U.S. visit. funds, Zarya was launched 
"Would you like it to rail out from Kazakstan on Nov. 20. of the sky?" asks NASA 1998. That's when the 496-day Administrator Daniel Goldin. "I warranty began. NASA sent up mean, we're going to go up a connecting chamber called 
and  keep  it  Unity  two  
in repair we'll  good and be  "[W]e're going to go up and keep it in good  weeks later. Since then. tho spaci\ sta­ 
ready for tlrn  repair and we'll be ready  tion has cir­ 
service mod­ule when it comes."  for the service module when it comes."  cled Earth nearly 8,000 timos. ShuttlP  
Space sta­ crews  have  
tion chief Mich a e I  Daniel Goldin NASA administrator  been inside twice to drop  



Ilawes expects the upcoming repairs by astro­nauts to extend tlrn certified lifetime of the orbiting Zarya control module to the end of this year. 
Neither Hawes nor program manager Tommy Ilolloway is overly concerned. 
The design lifetime of parts is "mostly paper analysis kind of stuff," Holloway says. "As 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY TO OUR PRECIOUS KER-BEAR. 
LOVE 
ALWAYS, MOM AND DAD 
off supplies and make repairs. 
The main trouble has been the batteries. Six an~ on board to provide power and have been faltering one by onn. 
In addition. a crane attadwd to the outside of the station by spacewalking astronauts last spring is not locked down properly. The next shuttle crew will go out to secure it. 

DON'T LEAVE YOUR SCHEDULE UP THE CREEK IN FALL 2000! 
Registration ends 
TODAY for French and Spanish placem.ent exams. Call 1-6887 and fallow the recorded instructions. You MUST register in advance, so be sure to call before 5 p.m. on March 24th. Questions? Contact the Departm.ent of Rom.ance Languages at 1-6886 or stop by the department office, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

Friday, March 24, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 11 
House approves $1.82 trillion budget, okays tax cut 
. Party line vote ends 14 hours of debate on funding 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Dcspitr unrest by some con­srrvatives. Hnpublicans drove u $1.82 trillion budget for 200 I through tlrn IIouse early Friday, mapping House Budget dHnpnr 
Highlights

tax cuts u 11 d . At least $150 
I o w r r 
billion set aside for 

donrnstic 
tax cuts

spending l h a n • Up to $40 billion for P r1e s i ­
prescription drugs for 

d (! 11 t cI i n t II n seniors 
. Spenas $1 trillion 0 v e r 
Social Security sur•

the 11ext f' I V C plus on debt reduction yPars, thP-mea­sure would set aside at least $150 billion for tax cuts and tlw rntire $1 trillion in pro­jt>t:ll'd Social Sncurity surplus­es l'or debt reduction. It would also provide up to $40 billion to create a prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipi­ents, though Republicans would narrow Clinton's plan to PxcludP higher-income senior citizens. 
Final approval came on a mostly party-line 211-207 roll call shortly after midnight, nrmrlv 14 hours after debate 
began. And despite ongoing 
dissension bv Senate conserv­
atives. it mo~ed Republicans a 
step closer to their goal of 
adjourning Congress by early 
fall so GOP lawrnakors can go 
home and defend their House 
and Senate majorities in the 
November elections. 
"If vou're for the reform 
agenda, you're going to sup­
port this budget," said Ilouse 
Budget Committee Chairman 
John Kasich, R-Ohio, i>choing 
a campaign theme of apparent 
GOP presidential nominee 
Gcorg1:) W Bush. 
In a replay of last year's budget fight. Democrats accused Republicans of squan­dering surpluses from non­Social Security programs on tax breaks for the wealthy, and doing liltle lo buttress flawed and fails to provide a Social Security and Medicare. balanced and workable eco­

Likening the Republican nomic plan. In the past, this budget to a tr,lAvision gamfl approach has delayed, rather show, Rep. Brad Sherman, D­than expedited, action on" Calif.. asked. "Who wants LO subsequent budget legislation. risk Social Security to give Most Republicans supported huge tax breaks to multi­the proposal. But eight conser­multi-multi-millionaires·?'' vatives voted "no" on an early 
Democrats said the GOP plan procedural vote because they embraces spending cuts so said it lacked controls to severe that Congress would ensure that spending never approve, and they chal-remained within budget. 1en ge d the "It means GOP's num­we'll spend
"rf you 're for the reform 
bers, saying $25 billion to t h e agenda, you 're going to $30 billion Republican more than
support this budget." 
plan would what we eat into Social say, said 
Security. Rep. John Kasich Rep. Tom Republicans House Budget Coburn, R­denied that, Okla., a
Committee Chairman 
with Kasich leader of the saying that to discontented arrive at that conclusion, group. "It's another wink and Democrats had to "cook num­nod from Washington." bers and make things up." With the GOP's wafer-thin 
The budget, which does not 11-scat House margin, their need the president's signature, defections could jeopardize sets overall tax and spending the budget's final passage. targets for the fiscal year that Party leaders labored through­begins Oct. I. out the day to quell the upris­
The GOP plan would match ing, and succeeded after or exceed Clinton's proposals promising efforts to prevent for defense, schools and veter­spending bills from growing us ans. and calls they move for tax cuts through the 
for many mar­"Who wants to risk Senate. ried couples The conser­
Social Security to give
and for health vative disaf­
huge tax breaks to multi­
care and fection was other expens­multi-multi-mirrored in es. But such the Senate.
millionaires?"
details are There, Senate advisory only, Budget and lawmak­Rep. Brad Sherman Committee ers will shape D-CaJif. Chairman specific pro­P e t e grams in later Domenici, R-bills. 1'.M., has yet to even try push­
TTPiterating administration ing a similar plan through his opposition to the GOP plan. panel because conservatives White Ilouse budget chief Jar,k want to hold spending down. Lew wrotr rongressional lead­At issue was the $596.5 bil­Prs that it is "fundamentally lion the budget would set aside for jet fighters, road building and every other fed­eral function but automatically paid benefits like Medicare and interest on the debt. 
Of that amount, $307 billion would be for defense, $1 bil­lion more than Clinton's request. Its $289 billion for domP-stic programs is almost $30 billion below the presi­dent's plan. 
In early votes, the House overwhelmingly rejected five rival budgets by black, pro­gressive and conservative Democrats, Democratic lead­ers and conservative Republicans. As they did when Kasich pushed the plan through his committee last week, Republicans blocked a Democratic effort to force a vote on the $483 billion, five­year tax cut Bush has pro­posed. 
Bush's proposal and the con­gress iona! tax cut are not directly comparable because they cover different five-year periods. Nonetheless, the Bush plan would eat into Social Security surpluses as projcct­e d by Congress, and few Republicans would be com­fortable voting to do that. 
Clinton proposed $99 billion in tax cuts over the next five years, nearly offset by $96 bil­lion in higher cigarette and some business taxes. 
House conservatives won a promise from GOP leaders to pursue at least $4 billion more in debt reduction this year. 
In exchange, they dropped budget language that would have prohibited spending any of this year's projected $27 billion surplus. In effect, that would have killed a separate $9 billion measure financing anti-drug efforts in Colombia. 
U.S. troops in Kosovo, and aid to victims of Hurricane Floyd and other domPstic disasters. 
Be our guest for the premiere medical ethics lecture ofthe year. A time to share your questions and aspirations with alumni physicians. 
The Philip & Doris Clarke Family Lecture in Medical Ethics 
"Alternative Medicine: Challenge to Mainstream Medicine and Traditional Christianity" 
The rise ofalternative medicine challenges the traditional modality ofconventional scientific medicine. In 1997, 4 out of 10 Americans spent an estimated 27 billion dollars out ofpocket in the quest for better health care. Do physicians have an ethical obligation to investigate, judge, warn against or even recommend alternative approaches? Scientific medicine as well as the spiritual basis ofhealing are being examined in ways like never before. Can this new dialog and developments improve the understanding ofthe "art of medicind" 
Sidney Callahan, Ph.D. 
Professor of Psychology 
Friday, March 24, 2000 
4:00 p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium Reception following the lecture 
Kenneth W. Goodman 
University of Miami, Florida 
Director of the Forum for Bioethics & Philosophy & Co-Director of the Program in Business, Government & Professional Ethics 
"Digital Doctoring: Ethical Issues in Using Computers in Health Care" 
Date: Monday, March 27, 2000 Time: 4:15 p.m. Place: 102 Debartolo 
Sponsored by The John J. Reilly Center for Science, Technology, & Values Program in History & Philosophy of Science & Co-Sponsored by CAPP 
i,., I\Ssoc • 

Sponsored by: Notre Dame Alumni Association 
0
-!-~­
< = 

Alumni Continuing Education 
Coatlalli.ng Edocatioa 

Do you like to write? Write for us. Call Anne Marie at 1-5323. 
r 
page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 24, 2000 
Support existing programs 
Cultivate emerging ideas Create new initiatives ... 
in tutonng and mentoring 
Funding Available 

Come to 1010 Flanner Hall on March 30 at 7:00 p.m. 

interested entrepreneurs contact John Eriksen at 1-4447 or John.R.Eriksen. l@nd.edu 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------.-­
Frid;1y, March 24, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Army replaces defective Patriot defense missiles 
bat debut against Iraqi Srud 
Associated Press 
missiles fired on Saudi Arabia WAS!IINGTON and Israel, is a key to the 
Tlw Army quickly and quir.tly defense of U.S. and allir.d forcr.s rr.µlaced hundrnds of' Patriot air in tlrn Gulf and on the Korean defense weapons in thP Persian Peninsula. Patriots in the Gulf Cult' and South Korea aftr.r clis­and in South Korea are kept on covciring a pattr.rn of problems high alert because of short with the missiles that were kept warning times. constantly on a high state ol' Lt. Gen. Paul Kern, a senior alnrt. oflirials said Thursdav. Army acquisitions ol1icer, told a 
Tho Patriot, which ga.inPd Pentagon news conference that public. f'anrn in 19'J1 in its com-the dccifiion to replace the mis-
To All In Ministry At The Basilica 
Ministers, servers, and choir members: You are all invited to participate in a mini-retreat on Saturday, March 25th from 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Our principal speaker will be Rev. Joseph E. Weiss S.S, Associate Director, Center for Pastoral Liturgy. If you plan on attending, please e-mail Steve Camilleri at Camilleri.4@nd.edu 
siles with newer ones was made about 10 days ago and the swap-out was completed Tuesday. 
None of the seven foreign countries that operate U.S.· made Patriot missile batteries was told about the problem until this week. Kern said. "'I don't think any of them are angry about the situation," he said. "Tlrny are concerned. probably, the same as we are, that we CTnd solutions to the problem." 
Asked why Israel, Saudi Arahia. Kuwait. the Nrtlrnrlands, Germany, Japan and Taiwan wore not told about the possible vulnerability of their Patriot missiles. Kern replied: "We did what we thought was a very fair assess­ment ot' keeping thr, srcurity of our forces and or allies in check, and ~e think we did it the right way. 
The technical problem, as dP.scribed by Kern, appears relatml to the wav in which the Patriots are used.' 
Testing has shown that those kept constantly on high alert ­with electrical current keeping tlrnm in "hot status"readv to fire -have developed proble;ns wilh a component known as thp, radio frequency downlink, described by Kern as a "black box"that sends signals back and forth from a ground station to guide the missile in !light. 
Kern said the manufacturer, Haytheon Co., had warranted the missile to work properly while in "hot status"for a maxi­mum of six months. The Army has kept some Patriots in that status for years, he said, while swapping 50 to 70 of them a 

/!'tie P~tti .. . 
intercepts an 
SU rface,to-su rface rillssi 
Recently, hundreds hadto , 
be replaced in the Mideast 
and South Korea because 
of a potential flaw in the 
device that helps guide 
Missile:

them to the target. 
Is 17 feet long 

and weighs 2,000 The problem: A 
pounds. Travels malfunction in the 
'black box' that
3.7 times the 


Launcher: 
Source: U.S. Army 
year for testing and running diagnostic tests on them in the field. 
Kern said the cause of the 
problem has not bem1 found. 
Rep. Floyd Spence, R-S.C., chairman of thA llouse ArmAd Services Committee, issued a statement saying he harl been assured by the Army on Wednesday that the swap-out of missiles has left U.S. forces at no higher level of risk. 
"However, I am concerned that these steps are only short­term and the long-term solution for fixing yet another military shortfall has not yet been deter­mined ,"Spence said. 
The missiles that developed problems range in age from 3 years to 10 years, Kern said. The components suspected of failing cost as much as 
AP 

$100,000 per missile, but the replacement effort will cost more than that. Kern said he could not offer a total cost esti­mate. 
The problem and the swap­out of missiles was first reportcd Thursday by The Wall Street Journal. Thn newspaper said Patriot missiles were pulled from approximately 11 batteries in South Korea, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. Each battery has about 64 missiles, although Kern would not confirm specific numbers. 
The Patriot is used to defend against aircraft and short-range ballistic missiles at medium and high altitudes. 
An upgraded version, called the PAC-3, is being developed to provide a greater capability against short-range missiles. 
The Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies at the University of Notre Dame has been awarded a special grant to place Notre Dame students from all colleges and all degree levels as 
Kauffman Entrepreneur Interns starting summer 2000! 
Successful Kauffman Entrepreneur Interns will receive: An exciting paid job experience with an entrepreneurial business A great resume reference as a Kauffman Entrepreneur Intern Flexible summer internships across the country and school-year internships in South Bend Structured mentoring relationship with the founder or entrepreneur of the sponsoring company 
Yes, dot.com internship opportunities will be available 
p A I D I N T E R N s H I p $ 
You're invited to the kickoff meeting of the most exciting paid internship program yet! 
The Kickoff Meeting is on Tuesday, March 28 at 6 p.m. Room 160, College of Business 
Plenty of pizza -lots of soda • Yes. We'll even feed you. How good can this get? 
These paid internships are limited -don't delay. 
THIS PROGRAM IS SPONSORED BY THE GIGOT CENTER FOR ENTREPRENEURIAL STUDIES AND THE EWING MARION KAUFFMAN FOUNDATION. 
These internships are open to all colleges, all majors and all University of Notre Dame Students. Women and minority students are especially encouraged to apply. 
The Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies is located at: 234 College of Business Call us at: 631-3809 or e-mail us at: Theresa.B.Sedlack.4@nd.edu or: jfalkine@nd.edu 
v aKAUFFMAN CENTER
l:1.1¦ .FOR ENTREPRENEURIAL LEADERSHIP 
page 14 The Observer . ELECTION NEWS Friday, March 24, 2000 
Poll: Voters find Bush 'arrogant'
Gore, Bush battle 
Associated l're,s 

on Social Security 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
Al Gore, accustomed to the Democratic Party's upper hand on Social Security. bitterly dPridecJ George W. Bush Thursday as 
t h C lfopublica11 staked his own claim on that issue. Anv school child could "go to the bl:ick­

board ancl Gore 
demon­strate how his numbers don't add up." Gore contended. 
Battling for the favor of senior citizens, who reliably vote in powerful numbers, the vice president alleged that the only way Bush could pay for his proposed tax cuts would be through massive budget deficits or Social Security cut­backs. 
Bush countered that Gore was naive to think he can save the program for future retirees simply by throwing money at the Social Security Trust Fund. 
"People need to ask, 'Who's the reformer in the race, who's going to bring people together and get something done and who's an obstacle to reform,"' Bush said in Orlando, Fla. "Step one is you better have a candidate for president who understands it is a problem." 
When people were asked in a new poll by the Pew Research Center who would do the best job of keeping Social Security and \1edicare sound, 4 7 per­cent said Gore and 36 percent said Bush. 
Bush. the Texas governor, made clear his determination to change those numbers. 
lie started Thursday's spit­ting match in an interview published in The Washington Post. in which he declared he would make Social Security a centerpiece of his fall cam­paign. He said Gore has a "major credibility problem" on any kind of policy reform. 
Bush has not offered a plan to reform Social Security for the coming baby boom retire-OHi.ANDO, rla.

ments, and he has derlined to Siner. wrapping up the GOPpromise be·II have one before prnsidential nomination. Georgethe November election. More W. Bush has been sounding like important than specific propos­
a sorn winner, making acid
als, he said, is his commitment 
remarks

to usP his political capital as 
about Al

prnsident to bring Republicans 
{;om andand Democrats together to 

dismissing

make changes. 
former Hn­

But Gorn citml Bush's previ­
p uh Ii can 

ous sugg-ristions that he would 

rival John

considnr such changes as 
\.'lcCain.

raising the retirement age Voters are
and privatizing part of the 
starting to 


Bush

program, which Gort> oppos­tell pollsterses. 
Urn Texas

Both Hush and Gorn would governor is "cocky" and "arro­
commit the entire Social 
gant."

Security surplus to protecting With his Texas swagger and aSocial Security. Gorn says he look that some voters describewould additionally pay down 
as a smirk, the governor's
the national debt and use the remarks on everything from thebillions of dollars in interest 
election to executions have
saved from debt reduction to renewed ques­shore up the Social Security 
tions about PollTrust Fund for the next 50 whether he's 

years. 
ready for his Results

At Orlando's Colonial High 
Prime· time . 31 percent of
School, Bush used a student's 
presid1rntial

question about future retire­
run. respondents 

ment benefits to criticize Gorn 
A new Pew chose a

for contending that Social 
Hesr.arch .

SP.curity is not "broken" and 
Center poll negative term to 
needs only more money -not suggests Bush decribe Bush program changes. 
is being hurt . MostGore "says there's nothing 

by it all. 

wrong, it ain't broke, you don't 
Among peo-frequently used
need to fix it. Well, I happen to 
pie who now negative terms
think it's broke and I think this 
support his

country needs to elect some­
Democratic to describe 

body who will spend the capi­
rival, Vice Bush: arrogant,
tal to !ix it," Bush said. 
President Al dislike,

Gore labeled Bush's critique Gore, the per­
a personal attack and said it 
untrustworthy,
centage who was not surprising because 

dislike Bush wimp, bad,"Pat Robertson Republicans 

because of his have been known for this." 

personality cocky

In the library of the Sands 
has jumped

Montessori Elementary School, from 19 percent in October toGore executed some confusing 33 percent. The figure for Gore
big-numbers math warning among Bush supporters is 22
parents, teachers and school­percent, compared to 24 per­children that Bush's proposed 
cent in October.

tax cuts would spend the fed­eral budget surplus and then 
And 31 percent ol' all tho poll's respondents chose a negative· term when asknd the one word that b1~st dHs1Tib1icl Bush, com­pared to 12 percent who thought of a negative term first a yoar ago. 
Whiln tho majority of rnfor­
enccs to Bush worn positive, 
tlrn most l'rcqunntly mHntioned 
negative words wore "arro­
gant," "dislike," "untrustwor­
thy," "wimp," "bad" or "cocky." 
The most frequently men­
tioned negative word for Gore 
was "boring," and "dull" was 
second, tied with "politician," 
undefined as to positive or neg­
ative. Next on tlrn negative list came "disho11cst" and "incom­petent." 
Fred Greonstoin, a political president. 
Asked directly whether Gore has tho honesty and integrity to SHrve as prnsident, Bush replied: "That's what I'd like to know and that's what America ,vould like to know." 
The remarks l'amn a week after Bush got into political hot water by coming off as dismis­sive of McCain, his closnst rival for the GOP nomination. 
In an interview with Thr, New York Times, Bush was asked whethnr the Arizona sonator had raisml his consciousness about reform. 
Bush replied, "No, he didn't chango my views." Bush also said he had no intmltion of mak­ing concessions to McCain on campaign finance reform. 
science professor at Princeton University, said 

"/ know people on the 
Bush risks being 

vice president's team
labeled "a non gravitas wise guy don't like me to remind -that is some­
people that this gu.lJ will 
thing he has got 

say anything to get
to put some effort into working on elected, but I'm going to." or walking away from" if he is to 
George W. Bush
win in NovAmbHr. 

presidential candidate
Perceived arro­gance won't nec­essarily hurt, said Darrell West, 

professor of political science at 
Brown University, "if it leads 
people to viow you as a strong 
and effective leader." 

But Hill Mayer, a political sci­
ence professor at Northeastern 
University, said that too often 
Bush's campaign seems to 
"show him off in ways that 
accentuate the notion that he is 
not very substantive ... has no 
great reason to appear so 
cocky." 

In an interview published Thursday in Tho Washington Post, the Texas governor launched into unsolicited and repeated criticism of the vice 
some: 
"Any of the children in this room could take out a piece of chalk and go to the blackboard 

SAY ... 
and demonstrate how his num­
,,

bers don't add up. One trillion plus one trillion equals two tril­lion and, if you have a non­Social Security surplus of one trillion, two trillion minus one 
ee4ee .e 


trillion still leaves one trillion." 
COFFEE & BAKERY 
Back from break? 
Proudly Serve 

Need asummer iob? 
• 
CORNER BAKERY
look no tunher. 
From Chicago

The nation's largest publisher of college and university campus 
telephone directories is offering paid full-time summer sales and marketing internships Tremendous practical business experience and resume booster. Positions begin in May with a 
While thn gov­ernor I a t e r sof'tcmid h i s remarks about McCain, his initial criticism mimic­k C d remarks from his p re s s secre­
tary, who said when asked about negotiating a settlement with McCain, "Negotiations? Governor Bush won." 
Bush didn't directly address the issue Thursday, but he touched on his approach to Gore when answering a question about Social Security. 
"I know people on the vice president's team don't like me to remind people that this guy will say anything to get elncted, but I'm going to," Bush said at a news conference lrnld aftor he spoke to students at Colonial High School hero in cnntral Florida. 


week-long, expense paid program in Cl-,apel Hiil, NC. Interns 
Mon-Fri 7am-1 Opm/ Sat. 1Oam-1 Opm market official directories locally, se:ling advertising sp.:ice to area businesses in specific college markets, including The 
(Special Hours Before & After Theatre 
University of Notre Dame. Earnings average $3000 for the 
Performances)
lO·week program. All majors welcome! 


Call 1-800-143-5556 ext.143 or visit our website at 
213 North Main Street, Downtown 
www.universi1Ydirec1ories.com 
South Bend

tor more information and to apply. 
(Behind Morris Performing Arts Center) 
233-<Jaje

~University Directories 
88 VilCom Center• Chopel Hill, NC 27514 • (8001743-5556 • Fax· {9191968-8513 
Friday, March 24, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
Scientists: World's 
•
oceans are warming 
difference, scientists said. 
Associated Press 
In the NOAA study, scientists 
WASHINGTON for the first time have quanti­
Scientists havn discovered a fied temperature changes in significant. even surprising, tlie world's three major ocean warming of the world's oceans basins and at such depths. over tlHi past 40 years, provid• "We've known the oceans ing new evi­could absorb heat. transport it dence that to sqbsurface depths and iso­
Results of 

r,omputcr late it from the atmosphere. rnodP-ls may study Now we see evidence that this be 011 target is happening," said Sydney when they Levitus, chief of NOAA's Ocean 
. Ocean

prndict thn Climate Laboratory and prin­Earth's temperatures cipal author of the study. warming. Levitus and fellow scientists, 
have increased

The broad who have worked on the pro­study of since the 1950s ject for seven years, examined t,\mperaturn temperaturl.' data from more
. Some 

data from than 5 million readings at var­
scientists believe

tlw ocnans, ious uepths in the Pacific, dating to IIH\ this finding is Atlantic anrl lndi.an oceans. l 1J50s. from 1948 to 19%.
significant in the

shows avm·­They found the Pacific and agc• tPmpr•r­global warning Atl:tntic ocnans have been atu rl's have warming since the mid-1950s,
debate 

inc rn as,· d and the Indian Ocean since morP than tho early 1960s, according to expectPd -about half a the study published in the clt!greP Fahn!nlwit C'losPr lo journal SriPncP on Friday. tlw surface\ and onc-t{mth of' a The grnatest warming degree evm1 at dPplhs of up lo occurred from the surfac:e to a 
10.000 fnpt depth of about 900 feet, when~ 
Tlw findings, reporl(~d by tlrn average hr,at content sriPntists at the National increased by 0.56 degrees On•anic and Atmosplwric Fahrenlrnit. Water as far down ,\dministration. also may as 10.000 feet was found to explain a major puzzlr1 in tlw have gained on average 0.11 global warming dcbatl): why degrees Fahrenheit. comput('r models havr1 shown "This is one of' the surprising morn significant warming than things. We've found half of the actual tPmpcrature data. warming occurred below 
Global warming skeptics 1.000 feet," Levitus said in an t:ontend that if the computer interview. "It brings the cli­models exaggerate warming mate debate to a new level. that already has occurred, We can no longer ignore the they should not be trusted to oc:ean." predirl futurn warming. The The study did not pinpoint models hav1! shown higher the cause of the warming temperaturns than those found trend over such a lengthy peri• in surfar11 and atmosphrric od, but said both natural and rPadings. But now, the new human-induced causes were ocean data may explain the likely. 
Justice Department probes White House e-mails 
. Criminal investigation begins over vice president's missing correspondence 
Associated Press 

WASI-lINGTON 
The Justice !Jepartment announced Thursday it has opern~d a criminal investigation into how the White House foiled to review thousands of e­mails that may have been under subpoena. Lawyers divulged most of Vice President Al Gore's messages are among the missing. 
The White House failure to archive vice presi­dential e-mails before 1997 means that most of Gore's electronic correspondence was never reviPwed to determine whether some pieces should bA turned over to investigators looking at Democratic fund-raising abuses. 
"It appears that much. if not all" of Gore's e­mails were not captured by the White I-louse archive system. While House counsel Beth Nolan informed Congress in a lotter. 
Nolan told lawmakers they are reviewing backup tapes from the vice presidential e-mail system to see if nny o!' the A-mails ran be recon­structed. 
The archive failure was "the sole result of human mistakes and entirely unintentional." Nolan said, explaining that Gore's office simply used a different e·mail system that until 1997 could not be archived by the normal White House system. 
"We have found no indication that those peo­pIe producing documents [under subpoena) were aware of this problem." Nolan wrote. 
But the House Government Reform Committee, which is investigating the e-mails, disclosed that current White House Chief of Staff John Podesta may have known about the e-mail glitch back in the summer of 1998 in the midst of the Lewinsky scandal. 
The White House acknowledges that the glitches caused White House lawyers to fail to review thousands of messages to sec if they were responsive to subpoenas and should have been turned over to Congress or criminal inves­tigators from the many Clinton-era controver­sies. Some of the e-mails may be lost forever, aides said. 
In a court filing, the Justice Department q,ivulged it has opened a c:riminal investigation into the missing e-mails, and allegations by some White !louse contract workers that they were threatened by presidential aides never to disclose the problems to investigators. 

Riley, whose buildings and
NEED CASH? 

eight years connect 
under Clinton makes him the classrooms to the Internet. 
nation's longest-serving educa­This year, conservatives on 
tion chief. "If a kid can't read by Capitol Hill again are opposing 
the fourth grade, somebody the Clinton programs, saying
NEW DONORS 

ought to be doing something they encroach on states' rights serious." and responsibilities to educate The proposed tests -which students.
EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 
Saturday, Nar am LaForcune B 
#.":~ .,;,·' ~
SERA CARE PLASMA .t:.".#i:'.>.:. ,, :i:':p//:'_':-,~-:;·i . 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 

Education chief favors national tests 
They like competitive systems." also could be made available to 
Associated Press 

Riley, a former Democratic homeschoolers on the Internet governor of South Carolina, -would measurn how well
WASHINGTON 

praised states' efforts to boost fourth•graders can read,
National tflsts in reading and 

student achievement -includ­whether eighth-graders can
math could ensure that schools 

ing those of Texas Gov. George solve math problems and 
are teaching the essentials with­

W. Bush, the likely GOP presi· whether 12th•graders are ready
out wresting control of educa­

dential nominee. to graduate, Riley said. States
tion from states, Education 

He also repeated President and schools could use the results
Sec:retary Richard Riley said 

Clinton's oft•criticized proposal to improve their own standards,
Thursday. 

to test children nationally. he said.
"This one-size-fits-all is not 

Uniform tests in basic skills The Republican-led Congress
the American way of doing 

would help has opposed
things," Riley said in an inter­

Americans Clinton's
view with The Associated Press. 

measure how "If a kid can't read by the efTorl'l to cre­
"Americans don't like that. They 

well children fourth grade, somebody ate national
don't function well like that. 

are prepared testing, as
ought to be doing 
to compete in well as dedi­a global work­something about it. " cating feder­force, he said. al dollars to "Reading is hire teach•
Richard Riley

such a basic ers, repair
Secretary of Education
skill," said old school 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 16 BSERVER Friday, March 24, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bux Q, None Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46)56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
M;keCommllv 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER ~orcen Gillespie Tim Lu1c 
A.~ST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Tun L.O!',Jll flrian Kessler 
NFWS fDIT0R, Anne Marie M:mingly VIEWPOINT EDTTOR: Lila Haughe)' S!'OlffS EDITOR: Kerry Smich ScFNE EDITOR: A1111nda Greco S.vr-..T MARi"s EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lmg 
ADVFRTISINC MJ\NAGFR: Pac Pecers An D.:srGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTF.MS ADM!NISTI\ATOR: Mike Gtmvilic \'(Im ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 

Orne£ MANAGER/GENERAL lNFo.............. 631-7471 
FAX........................................................... 631-692 7 ADVERTISING... ....................... 631-690018840 
observer@d;1rwin.cc.11d.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME.. ..................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................6.11-53 lJ NEWS.. .............................631-5323 
observer. obsnews. I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................6.11-4 543 observer.sports. J@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................63 l-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................6.11-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................631 -8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit om Web site at lmp:llob,erver.ndedu for daily llpdates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che A5sociated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 

weekly student reviews
min ure forecasts 

online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial Gimpus coverage
and races ofprim ads 
about The Observer
archives ro se.irch for 
articles published after 

co meet the edimrs and 
Augusc 19q9 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published i11 princ and online by the students ofthe Universitv of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Marv's College. Edirorial conrent, including advertiseme~ts, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institurion. The Observer reserves the righc to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of che majoricv ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror. Assiscant Managing Editor and department edirors. Commentaries, leners and columns presem rhe views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to rhe Ediro:· must be signed and must include conwct informarion 
Qumiom rexmdiug Obsnva poli,ies ,houid bf direa­ed ro Editor m Chief/l'Jil.,e Connally. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame should assume founding 
position in Workers' Rights Consortium 
The convnrsation botwn011 lop Notrn Dam0 ol'ficials, lr.ad­ers of tbe Progressive Studnnt AlliancP. and student suµport­Prs this past TuPsday on anti-sweatshop initiatives was in many ways a model for such convnrsations, 
Two vr~ry simple questions wr.rn not asked and no informa­tion rnlevant to them ·was providt>d. "What am tlrn costs or risks Lo the University in accepting Lhc conditions set by lhe Workers' Rights Consortium !WHC) !'or official participatiun in its originating "constitutional convention" in NYC? Why does Notre Dame consider these costs excessive''" 
Fiftp,e.n months ago the University acceptod an invitation to join in the founding meeting of the !;air Labor Association. It did so an<l is proud of the inlluP.ncr. it has had on the forma­tion of standards in the FU\. 
Notre Dame could play a similar role in lhr. wm:. Its rea­sons for declining tlrn option to participate in the founding meeting of tliis new urganizatiun are hardly derisive. (1) Since the WRC is operating on a shoestring. with one slaffcr. and since the WRC intends to be a "bottom-up" organization whose founding members will collectively determine its goals, there is no draft charter at the pr~senl Lime. (2) To participate in the founding meeting, Notre Dame would have lo commit a year's dues and "join" the WRC prior to the meeting. 
Notre Dame's pending counter-offer to the WHC is an application to participate fully in t'fie founding meeting on the basis of a written "good faith" promise to make a firm "up or down" decision within 30 days after the meeting. Nothing is wrong with that counter-uffp,r. 
But it is also very simple to draft an alternate offer dissolv­ing tho currPnt impasse. 
Notre Dame could offer I) to pay imnrndiatnly a full share or the costs of holding the founding meeting of tlw W11C or 50 percent of one year's dues, the exact amount to be negoti­ated, and f2) to fully support tlrn costs of attendancP at the meeting by an attonH'Y from the Office of the Goncral Counsel. a faculty member of the anti-swP.atshop task l'orce at Notre Dame, and two students tone chosen by tho Student Body PresidPnt and onP chosen by the Progressive StudPnt Alliance). In return, Notre Dame should require rights ol' full participation in the founding meeting. Notrn Dame would also continu(' its offer to make a final "up or down" decision concerning mnmbership in tlrn WHC within 30 days of tho rompletion of thP meeting. 
Why should Notre Dame consider adding memlwrship in the WHC lo its VHry influential role in tho FLA'! Tak<1 a simpl<1 look at the history of organized labor. The right to organizP is for Lhc sako of' collective bargaining. You chn't bargain with bosses you can gel to Urn table. FLA has garment manu­facturers in its tent. But garment manufacturnrs who an-' exploiting third world labor can't be trusted much further than Notre Danrn has successfully kirked a fir.Id goal in recent memory. Meaningful negotiation to improve labor conditions can't bo achieved unless the stick of public expo­sure of continuing abuse is readily available. That's what tlrn WRC sta1ids for. So should the Fighting Irish. 
Ed Manier 
Prnfessor. Philosophy & Reilly Cemcr 
M,ll'ch 23. 2000 

We are all guilty of racial profiling 
I have been considering ideas for a Viewpoint letter ever since I heard the verdict of the l)iallo case a few weeks ago. For those that do not know, Armadou Diallo was a 22-year-old West African who had immigrated to New York and was shot last February by four plain clothes police officers as he stood in the doorway of his Bronx apartment. On Feb. 26 the officers, who fired 41 shots on tlrn unarmed Diallo. striking him 19 times. were acquitted of all charges brought against them. 
I have had a dillicult time articulating the emotions that I felt as a result or the verdict. ranging from sadness to rage, into words that l hoped would promote awareness on our campus. After all, Diallo was far awav in the citv or New York and, as many of us here o·n campus often ignore the 1;ews of' the world outside our microcosm, it was hard to convey a message Lo which peo­ple could relate. I was finally pushed to wriLe this when I picked up The Observer just before spring break and read the headline "ND students arrest­ed at local Denny's." This tirnr the problem had explicitly revealed itsel!' on a local level and was affecting mem­bers of our community. The vnry prob­lem that left an innocent and unarmed 22-year-old dead in his doorway at tlw hands of the polie<~ landed four inno­ceut !\'D students in jail. The problmn is racial profiling. We am all guilty. Guilty, at very least, of being indifferent and unaware. But more often, we arc guilty, at some level or another, of the same kind of racial profiling that takes 

place on a daily basis throughout this nation. Sometimes it is highly publi­cized, as in the Diallo case, but more often that not it goes unnoticed by tlrn population at large. We arc guilty of it when we assumP that a black follow student must be an athlete, that he/slw must have a partirular background. or that brJshc is here only because of a race-based quota policy that displaced a morn deserving white student. We have all lrnard oi· participated in llrns1• assumptions and complaints. Every sin­gle person here deservns tlrnir spot and each has something valuable to con­tribute to the university as a whole. whether it is excellence in academics, athletics, or a different point of viPw. A large perc(mtage or our school's popu­lation, namely that of the white American male. must come to terms \•vith the fact lhat it has never and probably will never be oµpresscd in any way in its lifetime. Only when this is realized can we hope LO alleviate the burden of tho men and women who face unwarranted prejudice every day. Author James Baldwin stated the fol­lowing in a letter to his nephew: "this is the crime of' which I accuse mv country and my countrymen, "that they have · destroyed and are destroying hundreds of thousands or lives and do not know it and do not want to know it." Thnv are. in effoct, trapped in a history whfch lhny do not understand; and until they understand it. thHy cannot bn released from il." We must open our eyes, pro­motP awareness, and release ourselves from all types of prejudice and profil­ing, including racial. sexual. and reli­gious. Quite simply, as it was once stal­ed on some bathroom graf'liti, "I ley apathetic college studnnls, think!" 
Kiernan Moriarty 
First Year. Sr. Edward·, 
March 21. 2000 


SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Between men and women, there is no friendship possible. There is passion, enmity, worship. love. but no friendship." 
Oscar Wilde British author 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, tviarch 24, 2000 osstRVER page 17 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Graffiti Dance is part of a larger 'meat market' 
In respornw to lhe recr•nt wntroversy surrounding the (irat'fiti Dance, let me take time to defend it. The Graflili Dance is Notre Dame reality. It may not be pretty, it may be a meat market. but that is Notrn Dame. In u very rnal way, it does "orient'' one to ND. Ever been to a party? That's reality. I feel like every night at Senior Bar is really "free-undergrad night" for the Law School... 
If we havfl a problem with meat markets, or with upper-classmen drooling over freshman girls, then for heavcm's sake let solve the problem, not the symptom. Canning the Graffiti Danco does noth­ing for our currnnt an<l continued subjugation of women, minorities and other "outsiders" on this campus. 
Will McDonald Knott Hall March 22, 2000 

Everybody wins, take a trophy 
Last woPk, somebody swiped tho Oscar stal­ucttr~s from a loading dock. Who took them? I wondcrnd. Perhaps a ran of .lim Currey's, pP-r­turbcd by th(i Academy's f'ailurn to grant him a bPst actor nomination. pil­
!'cred the gold-plated tro­phies in prot.l!SL Maybe a potential best director pinched the prizes in order to practice' properly his acceptance spec~ch. Or per­haps a desperate individual stoh, the trophies in a last drastic attt1mpt to prnvcnt 

onn more awards show.  Joanna  
Awards shows cPrtainlv  Mikulski  
appear to dominate tlw  ,  
miniaturP silver screen.  
Various channels trPat vinw- Tuesday Voice  
ers to the Golden Globes. tlrn  on Friday  
l'ooplc 's Choict-i Awards, the  
Emmys, the Daytinw  

Fmmys, the Grammys, tlrn American Music Awards, the Nickelodeon Kid's Choice Awards and the list continues. Spocu!ation about potential winners, losers, and unfashionable dressers preci,de each of thPse shows. (Beware tho ill-clad actress at the Oscars, who receives Joan Rivers' scrutiny.) The hoopla condudcs with an extended, cornmercial­inh,rruptnd prnsontation of trophii,s. At the cr,cl of the show (or at IP-ast the line of various awards shows), everyone in the entertainment industry snems to leave with some sort of honor. EntcrlainP-rs n•ceiving trophies give grand acccptanw speeches and thoso slighted receive sympathy, attention and publicity for th<' slight. I wonder somr.tirnes if the media should save itself tirnn by broadcasting a sin­gk all-Pncornpassing awards show in which nvr.ry pf~rson n!motfdy connected to entertain­nwnt stands around. applauds everyone else and thr.n thanks them. 
This propnnsity !'or awarding prizes extends throughout /\nwrican culture. Like the majori­ty of NotrP Damn studrmls, I rnccived numer­ous trophies !'or my childhood and high sc·.hoo! Pndeavors, partinilarly those in sport. At first l rclislwd tlw opportunity to acquin) any type ol' statunltc. My sister Christine and I counted nur trophit\S and compared their size and shape. 
llowcvcr. Uw trnph11's eventually lost luster. Coaclws gavn out nunwrous "participation" awards to less skilled athletes like myself. /\Jt.1ir o,w soccer tournament. all the players on mv I.Pam walkcrl away with a small. hronzc sru!p.lure of' a girl soccc1: player dPspitl' our last place finish. (From far away it looked 1.ike a third-place award.) By high school, J did not even want the awards distributed at tourna­ments and banquets, including those for actual 
victories or accomplishments. I threw them 
into a box in my closet. I gave my "participa­
tion" awards to my younger sister, Laura, to 
whom the trophies still looked impressive. 
The coaches at these awards banquets and 
tournament prize presentations meant well. 
They hoped to alleviate the pain of the disap­
pointment suffered by those not receiving 
actual awards. I remember a discussion at an 
end-of-the-year swim team banquet in which 
one mother boasted that no child would leave 
without a prize, as she admired the rows of 
miniature trophies on the table. 
unfortunately, the children receiving these 
prizes did so without the benefit of actual 
accomplishment. They obtained a sign of suc­
cess without actual success. In American 
society today, as evidenced by the numerous entertainment awards shows and the "partic­ipation" awards now sitting in a box in my closet, awards and trophies signify ultimate success. However, as an increasing number of these trophies circulate throughout society, the success that they represent becomes increasingly trivial. The distinction between those who deserve an award and those who merely participated becomes increasingly blurred. The average director, actor or athlete becomes victorious. Do those coaches and bestowers of entertainment prizes truly believe mediocrity deserves honor? 
Perhaps they simply want everyone to feel accomplished. In the case of the entertainment industry, the awards shows also aid their busi­ness. The awards show itself draws attention and viewers to the network broadcasting it. I wonder. could ABC or NBC receive an Emmy for their skilled. thoughtful coverage of the Grammys'? 
And maybe some people benefit from the participation awards. II' the average person believes themself successful. fewer people will turn to self-help gurus in their middle age. As for 1\otre Dame, my friend \fary Anne offers a differing theory. "Here," she says. "they make everyone feel average by making everyone fail." But then, she seemed a little bitter at the time. 
Joanna Mikulski is a freshman from McUlinn !fall. !!er column appears every other Friday. 
The virJws expressed in lhi:; column are tlwse ofthe author and not necessarUy those of The Observer. 
•

keep 'em coming. v1ewpo1nt. l@nd.edu 
Concrete destroys campus beauty 

When I was a kid visiting this campus, soaking up the Saturday morning football atmosphere and the cool fall air, there was always one particular memory of Notre Dame that stood out. The campus, full of large oak trees, famous buildings, and expansive greenery always made an impression in my head. The beauty of this campus alone could have solrl me on coming here. Ever since I arrived here, it seems as though the campus is transforming from its former into a concrete jungle. 
Everywhere I turn, in any direction, there is a concrete path to guide me. The concrete sidewalks have swallowed up almost all of the lawn on North and South quad. Right in front of my dorm, they decided to connect two roads with an adjoining road right through the middle of the West Quad. Did they consider tearing up some of the old sidewalks that lay there before? NO, they simply connected all of the former paths with the new road! Now the West Quad looks more like the west side of Los Angeles, bare of any grass or trees. The campus looks very grey and depress­ing, seemingly to reflect the moods of a lot of students. Ever since a Dutch Elm disease hit the South Quad, wiping out a num­ber of the large trees that once created a green canopy in the spring, South Quad now resembles a bleak Chicago alley. It's a shame too, because we are definitely not lacking any beautiful buildings in that area either. 
What needs to be done on campus is to end of all utilitarian improvements to the campus. What I mean is that they need to stop placing sidewalks were they are unnecessary. First of all, every diagonal and shortcut sidewalk should be eliminated. If our buildings were spaced out miles apart I could see the point in having them, but everything is relatively close enough where could have at least 40 percent less sidewalks. Besides, if people feel that the extra 20 seconds they save is worth it by cutting through on the lawn or using one of the unnecessary sidewalks, then they should invest more time in leaving earlier for their classes. 1can't understand how anyone could argue with me. There is no doubt that there is an excess of sidewalks. If vou consider the Debartolo/Business school quad, you would have to agree that tlrnre is definitely a lack of warmth and comfort. Besides the fact there aren't any large trees, there is again an abundance or sidewalks. I am sure that if we eliminated all of thC' extra concrete on campus, and convince tho student body to stay off the grass for the most part, then they would comply. It seems everyone takes pride in our rampus; all WP need to do is bring it to everyone's attention that we are corrupting its former beauty by depriving it of its natural beauties, Other schools that have large lawns have not given in to utilitarian pathways (Duke, UVA, Dartmouth). and neither should we. 
Notre Dame thrivAs off its campus beauty; we should do every­thing in our power to keep it intact. Get rid of the sidewalks, and throw a f'ew large trees in where nenissary. If' Fatlwr Sorin Pnvi­sioned a concrete jung!fl for our campus, he would have scttlNI 90 miles west in Chicago. 
Albert Gembara 
Keough Hall M,uch 22, 2000 

w E 
ceneN D 
O
THE 

page 18 BSERVER Friday, March 24, 2000 
Anything can happen with Mr. 0 
In "Magnolia," one of this year's Oscar-nominaled films, it rains frogs. The theory is that sometimes .... frogs are swept up into the air dur­. ing tornadoes and become caught up in the strong winds, only to fall back Lo earth miles from where the tor­natl o originally struck. It happens from time to time in South America, and it's a weird phenom­enon, but then again last year "Shakespeare· in Love" upset "Saving Private Ryan" for Best Picture. 
Best Picture 
When this year's nominations were announced it seemed that there was no clear-cut frontrwmer in the best picture category. Most recently though, "American Beauty" has made such a sweep of other year-end film awards that it would probably degrade the award if any other film won. So far this year "American Beauty" has won three Golden Globes (best picture, best director and best screenplay}, three Screen Actors Guild Awards (ensemble acting, Annette Benning and Kevin Spacey) and the Director's Guild Award (Sam Mendes). It was also chosen as best film by more than 15 newspapers, television stations and radio stations (L.A. Times, Chicago Tribune, Rolling Stone, among others). 
Well-known critic Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times has predicted "American Beauty" to not only win Best Picture, but for it to "sweep" the five major categories that it was nominated ­best picture, best actor, best actress, best director and best original screenplay (it also received nominations in Sound, Score and Editing}. In the 71-year history of the Academy Awards, only three films have accomplished this feat, the last being the thriller "Silence of the Lambs" in 1991. 
The film most likely to upset "American Beauty" Sunday night is "The Cider House Rules." "The Insider," "The Green Mile" and "The Sixth Sense" were also nominated but really don't stand a chance. 
"The Cider House Rules" is believed to be a strong contender, not because it is a movie worthy of winning best picture, but only because of the strong marketing pro­gram of its producer Miramax. "The Machine," as the program is called, has in recent years punched out many nomina­tions for its films ("The Crying Game," "The English Patient," "Shakespeare in Love"). There have been so manv nomi­nations that an Web site started arumor that there is an executive of Miramax sleeping with an executive of PriceWaterhouse Coopers (the official vote counters). But most Hollywood insid­ers just believe it is because of the mar­keting program. 
If the fact that the romantic comedy "Shakespeare in Love" defeated "Saving Private Ryan" isn't enough proof of The Machine's power, "The Cider House Rules" receiving seven nominations must be. The film was not accepted very well by critics and did even worse at the box office. Many critics complained of thfl muddled abortion issue, which wasn't really much of a problem. It was a heart­warming story, but in a year with so many good films ii. is hard to believe this film deserved seven nominations. 
Just a few of these other good films that 


This year's Oscar battle pits a 'Beauty' against a field of wanna-beasts 
. i 



were snubbed by the Academy and are deserving of an honorable mention are "Magnolia," "Being John Malkovich," "Three Kings" and "The Hurricane." Most of these films received lesser nominations in other categories. 
Best Director 
Sam Mendes of "American Beauty" is by far the leading candidate for winning this category. This was Mendes' first fea­ture film after being discovered by Dreamworks executive Steven Spielberg. Mendes has already won the Director's Guild ofAmerica Award, an award that in more than 50 years has only been wrong in predicting the Oscar four times. 
Other newcomer Spike Jonze (a.k.a. Adam Spiegel, heir to the Spiegel maga­zine fortune} is an alternative favorite for his artistic work "Being John Malkovich." Jonze was imaginative and worked on many levels, but as the miracle man in "The Princess Bride" said, "It would take a miracle." Like Jonze, Lasse Hallstrom of "Cider House Rules," M. Night Shyamalan of "The Sixth Sense" and Michael Mann of "The Insider" also stand little chance of winning. They all made great pictures out oflesser scripts, and they should remem­ber that "it is an honor to be nominated." 
Best Actor 
Originally, Denzel Washington was thought to be a frontrunner for this award. He transformed a sub-par movie about a black man wrongly accused of murder into a somewhat worthwhile and interesting story. In recent wep,ks though, there has been numerous articles about the inaccuracy of the movie -it seems it left out a few felonies that Carter commit­ted. This does not take away from Washington's performance, but it does hurt the perception of I.he film and could hurt the voting. 
Kevin Spacey was the other frontrunner and it seems as though he is currently the man to beat. There is no question that Spacey's dry, sarcastic voice made "American Beautv," and he will benefit from the progiiosticated sweep of "American Beauty." He has already won the Screen Actor's Guild Award, which is a correct indicator of the Oscar winner 90 percent of the time. 

Best Actress 

This category seems to be wide open. Annette Bening, whose husband Warren Beatty will receive a special Oscar at the awards show, seems to be a frontrunner due to the overwhelming popularity of "American Beauty" and her win at the Screen Actor's Guild Awards. But some feel her role was to small to be in the Best Actress category. 
Benning is contending with Hilary Swank's gender bending role in "Boys Don't Cry" and Julianne Moore's throw­back role in "The End of the Affair." 
Swank has been highly praised for her meticulous role as a distraught woman/boy, and she won nearly every award outside of the Screen Actor's Guild. Her role was tough to play and award­worthy, a far cry from her days as "The Next Karate Kid" and as Steve's girlfriend on "Beverly Hills 90210." Who would have ever dreamed that an Aaron Spelling pro­duction could churn a chance to win an Academy Award? 
Julianiie Moore is the darkhorse of the race. Her role as a promiscuous wife was hardly deserving of a nomination, but she also had roles in four other movies in 1999, including a large role in "Magnolia." Meryl Streep was again deservedly nomi­nated in what seems to be an annual occurrence, this time for her role in "Music of the Heart". 
Best Supporting Actor 
Tom Cruise is one of those life-time achievers who seems to have an asymptot­ic reach for the little gold trophy. He has been nominated for best actor twice for his roles in "Born on the Fourth of July" and "Jerry Maguire," has never made a bad movie, yet he has never won on Oscar. 
P.T. Anderson wrote the role of T J Mackey with Cruise and a best supporting actor Oscar in mind. The role is both active, as we see Mackey scream about seducing women, and dramatic, as we later see him unfold when his father dies in front of his eyes. It is the perfect role to w:in Cruise the Oscar, and has already won him a less-than-satisfying Golden Globe. 
Also on Cruisc's side is that "Magnolia" was snubbed from the "Best Picture" cate­gory. But negating this fact is Michael Cail1e, whose "The Cider House Rules" will probably not win best picture. I receive some sympathy votes in his Cail1e played the ether-addicted d search of a successor. He is the old ever nomiliated for best supportir at the age of 79. Like Cruise, receive some votes for his previo1 ("Hannah and her Sisters," "Dirl3 Scoundrels"), but his role was too to overtake Crui,e's masterpiece. 
In direct opposition to Cainc'i Haley Joel Osment, who is th youngest child to be nominated at of 11. He showed maturity far beJ age in last summer's surprise be smash "The Sixth Sense." 
Other nominees include pretty Jude Law, who was nominated his role as the rich boy with a si kick named Matt Damon in '" Talented Mr. Ripley," and Mid Clarke Duncan, who gave a ste performance as a prisoner or death row in "The Green Mile." 
Best 

Supporting 
Actress 

For her part in the film "Girl, Interrupted," Angelina Jolie seems to be the consensus pick of most critics despite bad reviews and poor box-office receipts. 
Catherine Keener may get some votes for "Being John Malkovich," although she owes all of her attention to Spike Jonze, who was the real hero of the film. Former "Kids" star Chloe Sevigny of "Boys Don't Cry" should also receive some attention, but not enough to win. 
Best Original Screenplay 
"Magnolia" is far and away the most deserving film in this category. It was orig­inal and interesting with the best dialogue of the year, and it gave the actors a chance to let it all hang out. P.T. Anderson magically wrote the combination more than nine stories into one film. It was almost three hours, but you want to know so much about the characters it doesn't seem anywhere near that long. It is a deli­cious treat for actors, and with the actor sector making up the largest portion of the Academy's voting population, "Magnolia" should win out. 
However, it does have to upstage the giant "American Beauty," which again should benefit from the sweep factor. "American Beauty" does have the editing process working against it though. Most people probably don't know that the origi­nal screenplay ended in a trial, which if it did, would be a travesty in itself. 
Best Adapted Screenplay 
"The Cider House Rules" is really the only choice for winning this category. "The Machine" will be enthusiastically promot­ing it, and one should notice the fact that .John Irving (who wrote the novel) worked for years on perfecting the screenplay. If anything, it should be a token award for not winning best picture. 
The awards will be banded out this Sunday at 8 p.m. on ABC. The red carpet will be rolled and the stars will be dressed to the hilt in their designer dresses that cosl. more than our tuition. It should be entertaining, but don't plan on repeats of Roberto Renigni's performance from last year. 

NSIDER 
O
THE Friday, March 24, 2000 BSERVER Women's Basketball NCAA Tournament 

LIZ LANG/The Observer Senior captain Niele Ivey has overcome injury in her Irish career and is poised to lead her team in the NCAA tournament's Sweet 16. At the helm of the Irish floor game, Ivey leads the team in steals and assists on the court, but also plays a crucial role off the court as the team's emotional leader. 
GAME PREVIEW COVER STORY 
IRISH POST PLAY PAGE3 PAGE4
PAGE2 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 24, 2000 
Post players step up to help Riley in paint 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Editor 
Any Irish fan will tell you that Ruth Riley dominates in the paint. 
From the echoing bellows of her name when she enters the game to the Baby Ruth candy bars thrown into the r.rowd after every blocked shot, fans relish every minute the junior All­American center plays on the court. 
To add to the hype the Irish have been touted as tho "Ruth Riley Show" all season long. 
Riley's role in the eyes of her fans has moved from an aggres­sive post player to a one-woman legend in her four-year career at Notre Dame -and the legend is not far from the truth. 
But as dangerous as Riley is in lhe paint. one player cannot win an NCAA tournament. One play­er cannot lift a team to the No. 6 spot in the nation. And one play­er cannot sustain the success the Irish have attained all season. 
She needs help. 
Riley finds Lhat help down low in the increasingly-potent post play of senior forward Julie Henderson and junior forward Kelley Siemon. 
The tr.io of Riley, Henderson and Siemon on the inside serve as a sweet compliment to an effective set of Irish guards behind the arc. 
George Washington head coach Joe McKeown learned that the hard way when Notre Dame handed hi'> squad a ticket home Sunday with a 95-60 wi11 in the second round of the NCAA tour­nament. 
"They have a lot of weapons and some kids that probably do not get enough credit. Players like [Niele] Ivey, [Danielle] Green and Henderson played very well for them tonight," said McKeoV\n after the focused Irish foiled his team's upset bid. "Their role­players are high school All­Americans, so don't feel sorry for them. It may he played up to be the 'Ruth Riley show,' but they are all good players. A'l you watch film on them you become very impressed with players like !Kelly] Siemon. They are very talented and I do not underesti­mate some of their other play­ers." 

Notre Dame's post play has been a vital component to its 27­4 season record. While the guards direct the offense, the forwards and center get tho job done under the basket on both offense and defense. 
Riley leads Lhe Irish in a host of categories, including scoring, field goal percentage, rebound­ing and blocked shots. Averaging more than 16 points and sm·en rebounds a game, her domi­nance in the paint has been unmatched in almost every game the Irish have played this year. 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw knows the value of Riley's presence on the court. 
"I think [Riley] has improved trnmendously and has a great work ethic. She does a great job getting position, she has been a little more physical this year, and she does a great job reading the defense," McGraw said. "She does a lot of things with her size that a lot of the teams don't know how to deal with. There is no one in the country that can do what she does." 
But even legends have their weaknesses. 
Riley's one glaring blemish this season has been her penchant for getting into foul trouble and landing a spot on the bench for extended periods of time. That's where Henderson and Siemon come in. 
The two forwards have picked up where Riley has left off all season and have become more of a threat to opponents as the year has progressed. 
"Our team has the mentality of it's us five guarding you so Ruth is not alone on defense," said Henderson after the win over George Washington. "We know [teams] are going to try and get her in foul trouble early in the game. But it is us five guarding you. We had Ruth's back all game. It was great. All the post played great so we are very happy." 
Henderson's post play has come alive in the latter part of the season. 
More accurate with her trade-


LIZ LANG/The Obse,ver Ruth Riley powers her way to the hoop in the Irish win over BC in February. The All-American averages 17 points a game. 
mark hook, the senior starter the second round win. "I thought has seen more playing time on our post game was outstanding the court and more payoffs at today. I thought Julie Henderson, both ends of the court as a Kelly Siemon and Ruth Riley just result. played so well inside." 
Henderson, who averages That inside play will be pivotal more than five points a game, for the Irish as they head to has more than doubled her Memphis on Saturday to take on offensive production from her Texas Tech in the Sweet 16 and previous three years of action possibly No. 2 Tennesee on and looks to be even more of a Monday. threat this weekend in Memphis. If the Irish plan to make Henderson tallied 14 points in Memphis more than just a pit the Irish win over the Colonials, stop on the road to Philadelphia, marking a season high and their inside game will have to be matching her career high scor-top-notch. But no one needs to ing record. tell that to Riley, Henderson and 
Siemon has also come alive Siemon. They already know. this season. The junior forward "We have a goal every game," averages nearly seven points an Henderson said. "Our mentality outing and has led the Irish in is just to kill them. We don't scoring once, with 23 points over want them coming back at all. It Providence, and in rebounding is do or die the whole tourna­four times. ment, so we are going with the 
Henderson and Siemon corn-kill them attitude every game." bine to preserve continuity for The Irish plan to translate that the paint. McGraw recognized aggressive mentality into aggres­their effectiveness in Notre sive post play to propel them to a Dame's recent vvin. spot in the NCAA's Final Four. 
"I am so proud of the team right now," McGraw said after 

Sizing up the competition 


Mideast Bracket 
The top seed in the Mideast, the Tennessee Lady Vols are hungry for their seventh national championship. Averaging 82 points per game, the Vols' strength lies in their offense production. Tamika Catchings, Semeka Randall and Michelle Snow am tough to guard in the paint. Perimeter defense has been a con­cern for the Vols all season, but with a 24-3 record, the team has shown it has what it takes to bring home the title. 

A surprise winner in the ACC, the fourth-seeded Virginia Cavaliers find their leadership in Renee Robinson. Robinson's season of' success shocked many -the senior point guard more than tripled her scoring average since­last year. The Cavaliers are a solid shooting team, but they have struggled on the boards all season. Lack of depth could also hurt thP Cavaliers in their run for the title. 



The Notre Dame Fighting Irish pack a potent punch with strong inside and out­side shooting. All-American center Ruth Riley L'l a force in the paint and a trio of guards, Niele Ivey, Alicia Ratay and Daniello Groen, arc a menace around the perimeter. The second-seeded team has struggled with turnovers all season, averaging 21.4 a game. Key inside play­ers will need to stay out of foul trouble in order to make it to Philadelphia. 
Making their 11th straight NCAA tournament appearance, the third­scedcd Texas Tech Lady Radiers lost four starters and the bulk of their offense t.o graduation last year. The young team has proven worthy of the Sweet 16, however. With key players stepping up, the Raiders are monsters on the boards and boast the ninth-best defense in the country, allowing just 55 points a game. 
Friday, March 24, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish journey to Philadelphia makes stop in Memphis 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Editor 
It may not be the quickest route to Philadelphia, but Muffet McGraw's Irish squad has no choice -it must go straight 
through Tennessee on its way to the Fin­al Four. 
And win­ning a pair of games in Mem­


phis this McGraw weekend won't be an easy task for the second-seeded team in the Mideast. 
Touted as the toughest bracket in the NCAA tourna­ment. the Mideast boasts four of the top teams in the nation: T1rnnessee, Notre Dame, Virginia and Texas Tech. 
While the Lady Vols and the Irish are the favorites. the Cavaliers and Lady Raiders are hungry for upsets. 
Second-seeded Notre Dame will take the court at The Pyramid on Saturday in the fourth round of the tourna­ment against No. 3 seed Texas Tech. 
Texas Tech, a Big 12 pow­erhouse, will pose a formida­ble challenge for Notre Dame in their quest to reach the Elite Eight. 
"We're just getting back to the fundamentals to get ready," said senior guard 
N 
South Bend 
S.R. 23 

Danielle Green. "We're focus­ing on basic drills, defense and rebounding." 
Not onlv do the Raiders boast a powerful offense and stingy defense, the experi­enced squad has a little extra motivation coming into Saturday's game. 
Two years ago, the Irish traveled to Texas and handed tho Raiders an early exit from the NCAA tournament -the only home court tour­nament loss the squad has suffered in 14 outings -and that's something the Raiders won· t soon forget. 
"George Washington was out for revenge too," joked Green about Notre Dame ·s win over the Colonials to advance to the sweet 16 last Sunday. "Thinking about revenge just hurts them. When you play with a lot of emotion you get off your game plan." 
The Raiders muscled their way to the No. 6 spot in the nation and captured the Big 12 conference title this sea­son for the third consecutive year with a 27-4 record. 
But now they are eager for a chance to avenge their 1998 tournament loss with a win over the Irish in Memphis. 
Forwards Plenette Pierson and Aleah Johnson lead the Raiders' fast paced offense while Keitha Dickerson patrols the paint. 
Averaging 10 rebounds and 
12.3 points a game, the six­foot senior will challenge Riley and Henderson at the 
post. 
But Riley's distinct height advantage over Texas Tech's starting five could work in Notre Dame's favor. 
The trio of Irish guards Niele fvey, Danielle Green and Alicia Ratay, will keep the Raider defense on its toes. 
Notre Dame's balanced scoring attack has proven to be a menace for opponents and has propelled the Irish to a 27-4 record. 
If the Irish can survive Saturday's contest, the road to the Final Four will only get tougher facing the win­ner of the Tennessee­Virginia game Monday. 
No. 2 Tennessee, the Mideast favorite playing in familiar territory. is a tough draw for any team in the fifth round. 
Vols' head coach Pat Summit has cultivated a powerful inside game and her veteran squad holds a 27-3 record on the season. Forwards Tamika Catchings, Semeka Randall and center Michelle Snow spearhead a high-scoring offense that averages more than 80 points an outing. 
While the Vols' outside game is their weakest link, Tennessee lays claim to freshman point guard Kara Lawson, the leading three­point shooter in the SEC this season. 
Lawson will provide a good match-up for Ratay, who has also made her mark from behind the arc. 

(East of Ironwood) Elkhart (N. of Cleveland Rd.) I I
NOTRE DAME AREA 1832 Cassopolis SERVIMG ST. MARY'S 
143-1111 106-8888 143-1111 : OFF: 
I Any Xlarge Pizza! 
Purchased At Regular Menu Price 

. 


. .. Plus Tax Where Applicable. Excludes Otfler Offers. I °i
I

. •••• • Oelriery Service $LOO. FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS. :i 
.

m .. I _______ 
~ 

-
• Minimum Purchase For Delriery. .. § 
® 


South Bend 
52750 U.S. 33 North 
: $ 00 : 
If the Notre Dame faces Virginia, the Irish won't have much of an easier time than they would with the Vols. 
The Cavaliers, who finished the regular season with a 21­7 record, are an experienced squad that has also benefited from young talent. 
Senior point guard Renee Robinson directs an offense that loves to take the ball to the hoop. 
Freshman center Schuye LaRue, at 6-3, leads the Cavaliers in scoring with 14 points a game. 
The Cavaliers have had to 
r 
I 
: 
I 
I 
,;. 

,. Other Offers. Delivery I 
SeMc:e $1.00. Minimum 
R/i~for Delivory. 
Additional Toppings $1.20. I 
LIMITED TIME OFFER. 
work hard defensively to get 
ready for post-season action. 
After finishing sixth in the 
ACC in rebounding, head 
coach Debbie Ryan's squad 
will focus crashing the 
boards. 
But the Irish aren't think­
ing about the possibility of 
playing Monday yet. 
"We can't even think about 
Tennessee or the next 
round," Green said. "We need 
to focus everything we have 
on getting past Texas Tech. 
That's the only thing on our 
minds." 
And that's enough for now. 
Two -., 
I 
ubs:
9 
I 
I 
•
llalian • Veggie I 

• 
Steak & Cheese 

• 
Ham &Cheese

•
Chicken Club I 



PlulsTaxsWhere~1pilcaoblReE.EExDcEluldesOthoerOcffers.us I
Oe rvery ervice • .0 . F IVERY N AMP .
.. _..;. Minimum Purchase For Delivery M2.39 ..
I -. _____ 
r-------.. 
...., 
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 24, 2000 
Ivey leads Irish into battle for NCAA title 
• Senior point guard overcomes adversity to put Irish on top 
By TIM CASEY Assistanc Sports Editor 

Ivey 
The embrace spoke louder position: point guard than any amount of words. year: senior Less than four minutes 
awards: Irish team captain
remained in Sunday's victory 
'99-'oo, Third-team all-Big 
over George Washington when head coach Mullet McGraw sig­East team '98-'99, Notre naled for Imani Dunbar to Dame National .Monogram replace Niele Ivey. With the Irish 
Club MVP '99, USA Today
comfortably ahead 87-53, Ivey, 
Missouri player ofthe year
who had scored a season-high 
notables: Ivey has battled
23 point<;, slapped a high-five to Dunbar and walked to the side­against knee-injuries in lines to take her place on the herfour year career with bench. 
the Irish and missed most
Before she sat down, Ivey was 
ofthe r999 post-seaon, but
met near midcourt with 
is poised to take her team
McGraw's outstreh.:hed arms. It lasted only a few seconds but all the way to PhiladP-lphia the bond between player and this year.coach was readily apparent with that hug. 
"It was an emotional moment for me," McGraw said. '"I just 
"I knPw then that Coachlove her. She's someone you want McGraw was serious," Ivey said.
to hug all the time. I think we have a pretty special relation­First, though, Ivey needed to 
ship." consult with her mother. After McGraw visited the Ivey home, 
The relationship has had 
Mrs. Ivey gave her daughter her
moments to cherish, particularly this year, as the Irish won 20 approval. straight games and posted a per­"My mom had good vibes with 
her," Ivey said of the meeting.
fect 15-0 record at the Joyce 
"All the other coaches who visited Center. 
were standoffish. Right afterBut there have also been val­
every coach left, my mom was Henderson. Ivey also averaged 13.4 points for cleared to run until August, sheleys along the way, most notably 
like 'No' but after coach McGraw "She was the main one that the Irish. honed her skills in stationarythe two anterior cruciate liga­kept me going," Ivey said of Notre Dame entered the Big shooting and ballhandling drills. 
ments irrjuries in both knees that left she nodded her head. She was very personable." Henderson. "I got to see her East tournament with a 23-3 The dedication has paid off this,.. Ivey suffered in her freshman Ivey took an official visit to every day. Julie was the one that record and a No. 8 national rank­season as the captain is averag­and junior seasons. 
campus during a football week­pushed me every day." ing. After defeating Villanova in a ing over 11 points while rankingThrough it all, the achieve­
end in the fall of 1995. On her She pushed Ivey through gruel­quarterfinal round game behind 13th in the nation in assists withments and setbacks, one constant 
trip, after seeing the Irish beat ing exercises, mainly focused on Ivey's 19 points (on 5 of 5 shoot­6.4 per game.
has been the mutual adoration. 
the quadriceps and hamstring ing from the field and 6 of 6 from Her numbers are even better in "I'll always remember that she USC 38-10, she verbalJy commit­ted. The Missouri player of the and improving her flexibility. And the line), the Irish advanced to the first two games of the NCAA[McGraw] was always there for 
me [during the injury periods)," year was heading north to South when Ivey needed someone to play Rutgers. The Scarlet tournament, averaging 18.5 voice her concerns or vent her Knights, playing on their home points per game. 
Ivey said. "She said I wish you Bend. 
"I wanted a home away from frustrations at, she turned to court, were no match for the More than just an improvedwere out there and always said 
she had confidence in me and home and I felt she would give Henderson, who was willing to Irish, as they were scorched for player, Ivey has been the emo­me that," Ivey said. "I just felt this listen and console her best friend. 43 first-half points. tional leader of the team as well.
couldn't wait until I came back." 
bond." "It was the worst," Ivey said of "I felt I was on fire and on Her outgoing personality com ­"She's so important to me and She made an immediate impact her rehab. "I was definitely down another level," recalled Ivey of bined with her formal role asjust so special," McGraw said. 
on the 96-97 Irish squad, vaulting on myself asking do I really want the Rutgers game. "I was very, captain has been an asset to the
From the moment they first 
into the backup point guard role to come back, do I really want to very confident. I didn't think any­team's success. 
saw each other, the two could 
sense an immediate connection. for the first five games of the sea­do this. I was so frustrated, hope­one was going to stop me that "We invite everyone over, we son. Then crune a Nov. 23 game less and felt sorry for myself." night." try to do alot of things, try to get
McGraw recalls a state tourna­against Bowling Green when her While her teammates were on With 14 minutes remaining in to know each other," said Ivey ofment game during Ivey's senior 
rookie campaign abruptly ended. their way to a Final Four berth, the game, the third-team All Big her role as captain along withyear at Cor Jesu high school :in St. 
Ivey had just made a steal and lvey could only sit and watch and East performer was finally Henderson. "That's what'sLouis. With her team's season on 
went up for a lay-up when she think about the future. She perse­stopped. Not by a defender but by helped us this year. We've all got­the line, Ivey calmly sank 13 of 13 vered, regained her former atti­fate. Ivey and three Rutgers play­ten real close." 
free throws as they advanced to was pushed from behind by a Bowling Green player. After the tude and finally was cleared to ers were hustling after a loose Notre Dame now stands at 27 -4 the next round. 
contact, her right knee collided play in September. Ivey's role as ball. When she tried to change on the season entering this week­"Each year we target certain with the floor. a sophomore changed from back­direction, lvey's knee collapsed. end's game against Texas Tech.
kids and pick out the number one 
"I had no clue what was going up to starter at the most demand­"I knew it right away that I did A victory over the Red Raiders
kid that we've got to have," 
on," recalled Ivey of her ACL :ing position in basketball. Though the same exact thing," Ivey would set up a possible matchup McGraw said. "She was the one 
,.. just by the way she played and injury. "It never crossed my mind she averaged 8.2 points and 3.3 recalled of her second ACL injury with national powerhouse that it [tearing an ACL] would rebounds per game and led the in three years. "I knew that pain, Tennessee and a shot at the Final 
the things she could bring to us. 
We didn't have someone at that happen to me. \"'hen they told me Irish to a Sweet 16 appearance, I knew it was over again. I had to Four. I couldn't believe it." Ivey still felt the effects of her start back from scratch." lvey's career has come full cir­
time like her." 
The initial prognosis was that ACL injury. "I felt that was the year we had cle. She never expected the rideGrowing up in St. Louis, Ivey 
"My sophomore year I would a shot to get to the Final Four,"
wasn't too familiar with the Irish. the injury would heal in three to to be this bumpy. But the journey 
always think about my knee and McGraw said. "Without her it is still far from finished. Ivey willLike most people, she knew of the six weeks. But a few days later the doctors realized its severity. going down again," Ivey recalled. showed how import.ant she was return next year, after beingf'ootball team but didn't realize Instead of returning to the team "It really took me the whole year to this team. I felt it was really granted a fifth year of eligibility the success of the women's bas­
after Christmas break, the fresh­to get that out of my system. I 1mfair to her." for missing almost her entire
ketball team. 
man was scheduled for surgery didn't know if I would ever be as Without their point guard, the freshman season.
That all changed one day dur­
in January. good as I was before." Irish lost a second round NCAA Yet as Ivey knows from experi­ing the summer before her senior 
Those concerns were quickly game to LSU. ence, she must focus on the pre­year in high school. Ivey remem­"That's something I would 
never wish on anyone," Ivey said, put to rest as Ivey entered last It was a premature finish for a sent, where she has a certainbers playing in a pickup game at recalling her surgery. "It's very, season playing the best basket­talented team and player. goal to accomplish.
the local YMCA with a group of 
very scary. But I had a lot of peo­hall of her career. She had Ivey vowed to come back, to "We rJulie Henderson and llguys when McGraw showed up to ple help me." rngained her confidence, was not prove her critics wrong. always said that we'd do whatev­
watch. NCAA rules forbade 
Among these aids were her concerned with the knee and "I knew exactly what I needed er in this four years to get us toMcGraw from conversing with 
became more of a leader. The to do," Ivey said. She stayed all of that championship," Ivey said.
her future point guard hut the mother, high school coach and teammate, best friend, and room­team leader ifl assists (6.5 per last summer working on her "And now it's wide open for any­appearance left a lasting impres­
mate and fellow captain Julie game) and steals (2.6 per game), game. Though she was not one."
sion. 

birthdate: September 24, because: It was close to and better
up close & 
1977 home andfelt like home the most influential people in 
hometown: St. Louis, MO since I've been at Notre Dame my life have been: My moth­
dorm: Welsh Family Hall I've learned: The lessons er, Tonya Jackson, Nahari
personal 
major: History and tests ofcharacter on Ivey, my brother, Gary 
WITH NIELE IVEY dimensions: 5-foot-8 and offthe court have Glasscock and Delana I chose to attend Notre Dame only made me stronger Ivey 
w E 
ceneN D 
O
THE Friday, March 24, 2000 BSERVER page 19 





Jillian Depaul 
Scene Movie Critic 
Living up to tradition, the toughest races of this year are in the supporting acting cate­gories. In the supporting actress category, there is an exciting, scene-stealing perfor­mance by Angelina Jolie, whose father Jon Voight is an Oscar winner himself. These are the type of p0rformanccs that usually take home the gold in supporting categories. But, if we "look closer" at her compe­tition, we see Chloe Sevigny's gracefully understated perfor­mance as Brandon Teena's lover in "Boys Don't Cry." lt is 
Sevigny's portrayal of Lana Tisdel that brings this 
movie to the next level, turning it into an emotional 
powerhouse, instead of merely a vehicle for 
Swan.k's courageous gender-bending performance. 
Critics'· Comments 

The Academy played it safe once again with best picture selections in the traditional molds; four of which are about as exciting as watching paint dry. No, wait, even less excit­ing than that. There was apparent­ly no room for anything original like "Being John Malkovich" or "Magnolia." Nor was there room for anything disturbing ("Boys Don't Cry," "The Talented Mr. Ripley"), nihilistic ("Hght Club) or controversial ("Eyes Wide Shut"). That's too bad, because my choice for best picture, "American Beauty," isn't nearly as good as any of those films. 

And the Oscar for snub of the year again goes to the Academy ... 
Last year, many were angered by the Academy's perceived snub of Jim Carrey by failing to nominate him for his performance in "The Truman Show." For my part, I felt the truest snub occurred on Oscar night itself as "Shakespeare in Love" very nearly shut out "Saving Private Ryan." but this year Carrey has 

truly been snubbed for his masterful per­formance in "Man in the Moon." It's hard to believe that the Academy, with its tradition of overcompensating, would not nominate Carrey for his depiction of Andy Kaufman, but once again they have gone beyond the call of duty in ignoring a great perfor­mance. I can only hope that they were tact­less and thoughtless enough to make Carrey a presenter again this year. 
This year's nominations exemplify the Academy's cow­ardice for taking chances on films that don't necessarily go for conventional effect. With the notable exception of "American Beauty," the Academy gave little respect to actors' bravery, rather than taking more direct chances by nominat­ing films not of traditional Hollywod form. The recognition of disappointing films such as "The Green Mile" as opposed to far more innovative and interesting work such as "Three Kings" or "The Talented Mr. Ripley" goes to show the need for security in the minds ofAcademy voters. After the luke­warm critical response to the toned-down "The Cider House Rules," one has to think that its nomination was out of elimi­nation ofriskier films that might have stirred up too much controversy for the Academy's unsteady and sensitive voting body. 

John Crawford 
Scene Movie Critic 
So is the Academy going to award Tom Cruise -who surprised many, myself included, by showing some serious acting chops with his role as the seduce-and­destroy motivational speaker in "Magnolia" -or Haley Joel Osment -the kid whose per­formance is critical to "The Sixth Sense" being so good? Two great performances, but hopefully they award Cruise. Sure, he plays another in a long line of cocky characters, but his work in "Magnolia" covers the emotional range 

from confidence to denial to rage. His character's 
meltdown before the television interviewer is a 
roller coaster ride through the soul. 
Although many people are more concerned with the lead actor roles than with the sup­porting actor roles, that is where the most interesting races lie. it seems as though Angelina Jolie is a shoe-in for best supporting actress, but Chloe Sevigny deserves to be neck and neck with her. All of the hype from "Boys Don't Cry" has gone to Hilary Swank, but Sevigny was just as impressive in the role. The movie really did depend on whether the audience could buy if she would fall in love with a gen­
der-confused woman and she sold everyone. 
Anyone may win for best supporting actor. Michael Caine is the sentimental favorite, Tom Cruise is the old (young) pro who has yet to receive an Oscar and took a chance on a risky role, and Haley Joel Osment is the youngest male ever to be nominated and made ghost stories believable again. All in all, Osment impressed me the most because he made me believe in ghosts once again. 
The supporting actress cate­gory holds the most mystery. Catherine Keener's no-non­sense vixen in "Being John Malkovich" held the early lead. Now, Angelina Jolie, as the crazy chick in "Girl, Interrupted" is the frontrunner. But the Academy likes Woody Allen, they really like his actresses and they love giving the award to actors playing characters with a handicap.
Scene Movie 

Think Daniel Day-Lewis in "My 
Critic 

Left Foot" or the deaf Marlee 
Matlin in "Children of a Lesser 
God.") Samantha Morton's 
sweet and moving portrayal of a mute girl in Allen's 
little-seen "Sweet and Lowdown" is the upset of the 
night. 


Jason Hammontree 


The only two who are real frontrunners arc "American Beauty" for best picture and Hilary Swank for best actress. Her performance was head and shoulders above anyone else's in this category. The race in the best actor category is close to caU but Denzel Washington edges out Kevin Spacey by a hair because of the powerful character he por­trayed in 'The Hurricane." The supporting actor and actress cate­gories are pretty much up for grabs. The Oscar should go to Haley Joel Osment, who was absolutely amazing in "The Sixth Sense," but the Academy may overlook him because he is so young. Angelina Jolie wins best supporting actress because her performance was the only worthwhile thing in "Girl, Interrupted." She had to carry the movie while the others were aided by the people surrounding them. As far as best director goes, all the nominees were phenomenal. But the one that truly stands out as the most original and creative film is Spike Jonze's "Being John Malkovich." he will probably be over­looked, but his work on that film was awesome. 

page 20 Friday, March 24, 2000 
ND bands are back and ready to rock 
Scene provides all you ever wanted to know about the campus bands and performers playing at tonight's NAZZ Battle of the Bands 
By AMANDA GRECO 
Scene Ediror 
More than 12 years in thP, running, the NAZZ Battle of the Bands will be hitting campus this NAZZ 
evening to showcase the talents of various cam-The Battle of the Bands pus bands and solo per­form c rs. While the exact origins of NAZZ . Who: All ages are unclear and though 
. Where: Senior Bar 
no one really knows 
. When: Tonight,
just what "NAZZ" means, one thing is 8 p.m. -1:30 a.m. sure -this is a much . Tix: $2 at the door 
anticipated event for all involved. Sponsored by the Student Union Iloard and organized this year by Tony Cak, campus entertainment corn­dinator. NAZZ will feature 13 bands and five solo performers. Descending on the Senior Bar, the performances will be split between soloists and bands on separate stages. The winners of this battle will be determined bv throe judges for the band category and three judges for soloists. Judging criteria is based on performance, crowd response. skill and overall presentation. Of the six judges, three are rep­resentatives of The Observer. two are frnm WVFI and one other is a student. Prizes will be awarded to the top three performances in each section. All winners will receive various gift certificates to Woodwinds and Brasswinds music store. The evening will be led by announcer Christina Castrillo and there will be pretzels and pop provided for the audience. The first 150 people through the door will receive a free T-shirt. 
In lengthy, serious interview sessions. Scene asked each of the performers a few important questions about their music and inf'luences, focusing on ideas of artistic representation, such as what type of Spice Girl or car part they feel best represents them. 

The Butterfly Effect 
The Butterfly Effect has been together for two-and-a-half years and has appeared twice before at NAZZ. Doug McEachern (class of '97) jams on guitar and vocals. Ph. D candidate Hon Garcia plays the bass while Vinny Carrasco (class of '96) bangs away on drums. Their music is influenced by the music they listen to, the movies they see, the books they read and "the hugs our friends give us after we play," Doug said. The only bands they listen to are the "good ones -only the best ones around really." When asked if they play covers, they replied, "No. all originals of course. We couldn't really call them our songs otherwise, now could we?" They play rock and roll music, sounding "like the way a hug from a friend you haven't seen in years until vou run into them in a coffeehouse after thev've had about three ·huge cups of coffee feels," according to Doug. Their last show will be on April 15th, as Doug is moving to Portland a week later. "He's choosing to be with his girlfriend of three-and-a-half years instead of being a rock star. if you can believe it," stated a disgrun­tled anonymous source. Their best NAZZ memory is of their set last year when they played for a very enthusiastic crowd. They were dri­
ven to return to NAZZ this year by "a need for acceptance that stemi;; from some much deeper childhood issues we would prefer not to discuss in these pages," Doug said. They have elected to be the Anti Spice. Why? 
"Just 'cause." 
Sexual Chocolate 
"It's a nmss-around name for a mess­around band. We play to have a good tinrn and we don't take ourselves too seriously. So why would we need a "real" name?" Thus is Lhe rationaliza­tion behind the name ·•sexual Chocolate." They started over a year ago with only a guitar, a voice and somr rrazy backup singPrs. They added a bassist and drummer to the band last Varettoni on acoustic guitar and sophomore Joe Madia on fllectric guitar. Ai;; for the name. it's of "ques­tionable origin" according to valid sources. They bring a unique sound that is "a weird mix of modern rock and funk, hard rock with acoustic guitar." They are currently working on compiling an album of ten original songs to be released in a few weeks. Wlrnn asked about the band's future. Bill said "We've always called it what it was. We said 'We're just gonna have fun in college.' It worked out really well." Doc Brown was a surprise hit at last year's NAZZ. Originally, they didn't make the cut, but when SUB extended the time and needed more bands, they brought Doc Brown in. Unexpectedly. they won third place. "We did it all on heart and soul; there were no gimmicks. Because of the situation going in. we lacked a lot of enthusiasm. But it turned out to be our best show. The audience erupted on the first chord and you could feel the electricity running through the band. It was worth it," Bill said. Look for Doc Brown to deliver a crowd pleasing performance. And remember Doc Brown for all your ailments. They're undeniably l lealthy Spice, cause everyone needs a good dose of Doc Brown. 

spring. With srmior .luan Pablo Montufar on guitar, junior Mickey McGarry on bass, sophomore Kevin O'Bryan on drums, sPnior John Tabis dolivrring lead vocals and the Pralinns ·n Dkk backup singers. their soumJ is compleLn. They call their style "eclectic." "Ifyou were honest. you would call our style completely random but really funny." Thriy said. They'wi been in.~pired by musical lligcnds like Poison. Color l\1e Gadd, Warrant, Bel Biv Divoe and Juvenile. They tt111d to play a lot of r,overs. though they do have a few originals. "In general we cover a lot of songs that most people feel shouldn't be 1'.overed at all. Funny songs, really bad songs. songs from 7th grade, or anything prw­ple can dance to." "Nazz last year was inr.redible. The best moment wa.o; when we looked out into the crowd and everyone head-banging to AC/DC's 'You Shook Me All Night Long."' Srxual Chocolate plans to continue to entertain the Notre Dame students at their l'avorite venue. AcoustiCafo, and at other campus gigs. They plan to hold a post-graduation national "Sexual Chocolate Reunion Tour" when they're in their 60s. Simply said, they an' Dudo Spice, "because we'n, calmer than you are. (Ever see the movie 'The Big Lebowski'?)" 
Wish a happy birthday to The Transoms tonight, as this year's NAZZ performance is the second anniversary of their first show together. Senior John Huston provides guitar and lead vocals. junior Scan Markey drilivers his talent on bass and Ph. D candidate Hon Garcia will seduce your auditory senses with his drum skills. This group is sum to delight everyone with their all-original songs. "l try to make my songs as unique and original as possible," said John, who writes the lyrics. The Transoms can bn defined as an emo band -post-hardcore, indie rock sound with emotional lyrics. 
They draw their style from bands like Nirvana. Braid. The Dismemberment Plan. Hazel, Kinda Like Spitting and others. The Transoms chose their name because it "allows thfl listenrr to intrrpret for himsrlf or herself what the undrriying thr,mes or ethos is behind the music," John said. For thosr of you who don't know, a transom is the window located above doorways (seen in some of the older dormsl. With this in mind. thr band's motto is "We're like the Doors, but higher." Their NAZZ appearance last yoar was well received by the crowd, so the guys are excited for tonight. their fourth Senior Bar appear­ance. With the amicability of the members of' this band. it is easy to sre why they chose to be lluggy Spice. As John said. "We like hugging people. Free hugs to all in exchange f'or votes!" 
Doc Brown camr, to be just before last year's NAZZ and has been going strong ever since. Senior Ryan Murphy leads on vocali;;, accompanied by senior Bart Lanahan on bass and back up vocals. senior Brian "Petra" Petrina on drums, senior Bill 

American Standard has brien together for a little over a year and has gained a lot of support in that short time. The band features the talt>nl'i of s<'nior I lolly Hoffman on lead vocals. senior Chris Osos on guitar. senior Grant Hamsny on drums. seuior Dan Puccini on guitar and sophomore Tom I !ayes on hass. Their :mund encompasses many diffornnt styles. "According to the guys in our band. our original stuff is inlltwnced by .Jewel. hut it doesn't really sound anything like Jrwel," band mPmbnrs said. Evervone in the band has their own dilforont tastes that affnct the sound they creatii. When the band plays covers. they "try to h,ok for good bar songs. flockin,' part.yin' tunes that a crowd ran get into." American Standard has progrosscd from their cover-band days to now playing all originals and they recently recorded their own CD. This will be their second NAZZ show. Their l'avoritl' momnnt is from last vcar's show. "When wr, bust11d out with "Sweet Child O"Mine"-man, that waijust 1-rotch-grabbingly great," they reminiscrd. They're hack this year for to take advantage of the rare opportunity for campus bands to be showcased. "When NAZZ rolls around it's a big deal. It's just a great way to get all the bands together and give them a big show," thfi band said. Thr, band as a whole would likf~ to be called Bed Spice cause they've got three rndheads. Though Holly added,"Personally. I would like to br called Ninja Spir,e, brcausP ninjas are neat-o." 

Friday, March 24, 2000 
0-BoNeZ 
le 

"ll" is for Dnl_v llar1ws. "B" is f<ir 13 r t' n d a 11 O'Connor. "N" is l'or NP ii Carmkha1d, and "/,'' is !'or Zach Limwrt. Put ·rm togPlhPr and what do you gt·t'1 Il-Bo:'kZ. a fairly \'Ollll~ lh·shman 
band that promis1•s somP gn•al sounds. (You may have previously heard of' this group under Llw litJ,, "NPil Cnrmirhael's UnnamP.d Band." Thev decided on their current name "c:ausP WI' ncwckd lo hav(, om; to play '.\/AZZ.") When he's not adding to this group's l'unk-bluPs sound. Daly disµlays his <lrurn talent in the ND Jazz Band. According to Nt>il. Bn•ndnn is so good on bass "it's pathetir·." 1-litving had only three WPP-ks lo~Ptlwr. the group will bf' presenting some covers with their own blues twist. hop­in~ to lak1• Uw campus by storm as an unPxpectedly talented new band. Currently, tht> group is S!'Pking a keyboard player to compli>if' tlwir sound bP,fore they i-xpand lu do mon· gigs. Humor ha.s it lhey might like to haw~ some sort of following in the studPnt body. It se<m1s appropriatP that this band takes the titlP of Unnamed Spice du<' to their lac·k or initiative in choosing a band namr.. As Nr.il said, "How do you PXpl'('l nw to d1uosc a Spice Girl name whm, I can't even pick a band name?'' 
No Redeeming Qualities 
No Hndl'Pming ()ualities fra!urns Nick Wymb on drums. Josh llich on bass and vocals. Jew (;rabPnStf'ttcr on vocals and JerPmy RentP.ria rm gui­tar. TIH•y ,viii bi• joim·d on stagp, by Jay Newman pla_ving bass tonighL The sophomorns have been playing togethPr !'or ovPr a year. beginning as a rnvl'r band but now incorporating some origi­nals as WPII. Tlwir sound has been inllu-PnrPd bv a vari<'tv of bands. Nir.k likes the (;1,t lip Kids; Jo:,;!1 likes Dcalloncs. Jemmy likPs Nirvana and JoP lik"s NIN. yet brings in a rnorl' lrainl'd sound a" a Glee Club singl'r. Whil<' Ill'\\. to NAZZ, tlw band nrnm­b,• rs thought that this would be a good opporLUnity to b1• serm. "Wn'd like to build somr kind of following lo play off-campus as wPll as bPcomP more rnrognized on-campus," J1!n·my said. Tlwy would also likP to play more gigs in tlw South lknd arna and Chic:ago. And the boys s,t~· that thny would deiinitdy bP Scary Spice, bf'caus(• "m•'n• not a typical ND band so w0 may be sr.en as scary but Wl'l"I' n~allyjust a bund1 ofnire guys." 
The Mad River Bluegrass Society 
The• naml' almw is Pnough to ere at(' in tnr­Ps t. and th<' sound is sun' lo f"ollow suit. Tlw Mad BivPr B I u 1• g r il s s Socil't\. l'ormnd a f'pw Wl'Pks ago. shov.-r,tsl's soml' 

prnmising tall'nl and unusual instrumP11ts. Sophomorp, Jared Marx picks away at his banjo, joinPd by his brother. senior Nathaniel Marx 1111 bass. freshman :vtarcel Lanahan 
Seven Pounds of Groove 
When asked what the significance was behind their unique name. all that the members of Seven Pounds of Groove had to say was "no c:omment." vVith sophomore Alan Maginn on vocals and lead guitar, junior Chris Corr on drums, sophomore Luke Burk on bass and junior \,.··.·.· " Mark Miller on guitar, 
~t 
this group is a self-pro­claimed "jam band." "We play anything from blues standards to Radiohead 
and everything in between," Alan said. The bands that have influenced them include Phish, Led Zepplin, Jimi Hendix and more. Thev will wow the crowd tonight with an even mix of origi­nals and covers. Though they went on 
a "mini-tour" of the Northeast over spring break. thf'y felt they should play NAZZ because, according to Alan, "nobody knows who we are." They plan to start playing in the area bar sr.ene soon. In some bizarre, cryptic message, the band declared them­selves not unlike an '84 Toyota Camry named "Wease." 
Bird in Space 

Senior James Beaubout, senior Mike Camilleri and senior Jeremy Sienkiewicz have < been playing togeth­er for four vears.
81RD IN SPACE • 
Their band, Bird In Space. plays an acoustic, folk sound inllu­enced by groups such as Indigo Girls and Bob Dylan. Their performance tonight will be a split between covPrs and originals. They're here at NAZZ "just to have a little fun," James said. For those of you who may be wondering. they are "the ga-, 
cap. Isn't it obvious?" 
1111 guitar and junior Shawn Storer on mandolin. Thr main inl1uenc1i for thPse guys comes from the blw•grass music of thf' 40s. Th(' Bltwgrass Boys and Bill Monroe invented the genre long ago, and Tlw Mad Hiwr Blw11:,1i-ass Socir•ty is kPeping it aliw. The band will play c:ovf'rs with some solos and variations. 1--:.P!'P an (1,u· op1m f'or some LPstnr rlatt and Earl Scruggs a, well as a cover of' "Will the Cin·I<' !w l'nbrnkPn'>" Thrir music is "folky with a h<mL Four string instrument, get a lot of rhythm." J,m•cl and Nathani('! have playt>d Ar:ousliCafo iu llw pasl. but lhoughL that NAZZ would "be fun and a good opportunity lo bring a difl\.•rpnt g(mrr to th!' scrnr. and break things np a bit." Jared said. As lil1' Hw l"utun· of this group. they say thcy'rn going town.it to sec where things go. "Besides," Jared addN-J. "I don't know what kind of market there is for Bluegrass in South Bend." This altruistic group tnkr•s thr• lillr> of H1,d1wck Spic<' as tlwy t.ry to bring "a good. happy. dPan-cut image of rednecks" to 

Notrn Dame. 

Alizarin Crimson 
No. it's not "a lizard in crimson."it's Alizarin crimson. named for a color 
used by TV's Bob !toss, painter of the "happy little trees."Formed two 
months ago, this loud grunge band has a noticeable blues inlluencc. 
Comprised of' senior Dom Valore on rhythm guitar, senior Mike Faloon on 
lead guitar, senior Chad Mikolajcik on bass. sophomore Will McGrath on 
drums and senior James Gomochak on vocals, this band will be making its 
dobut at NAZZ tonight. They will be playing a mix of originals and covers, 
with a sound akin to that of' Pearl Jam and The Smashing Pump!Jns. "NAZZ 
is the perf°pct opportunity for an audience."Dom said. "We've played in our 
basement long enough. I think we're good enough to play live,"he added. 
Alizarin Crimson can most easily be likened to the broken mutllcr of a '77 Monte 
Carlo, "c:ausi> it's loud." 
page 21 

The members of Moonshine would like all to know that there is no con­nection between their name and alco­hol. Freshman Meaghan Netherly pro­vides lead vocals. freshman Tim Bradley comes in on guitar and vocals, sophomore Fish plays guitar and freshman Bill Taylor delivers percus­sion. They would like to thank their main influence, David Hassclhoff, though they have also been inlluenced by Ani DiFranco and music types such as ska, classic rock. punk and indie. They will present one original and some covers in their "god awful. fuzzy, catchy, pop, rock 'n roll mayhem" style. They appeared once at AcoustiCafe and would like to play there again, though they want to expand to play in "strip clubs and industrial porn theaters." The long­term goal for the band is a European tour. "We are self-proclaimed materi­alistic hogs," Fish said. "We're only at NAZZ for the money." Just call them Nudie Spice. "That will sell more albums than anything. It's all about the money." 
Lazy Blue Method 
Getting their start three weeks ago. Lazy Blue Method takes the individual interest,;; of each band member and incorporates them to make their band's sound. With freshman Ben Dillon on guitar and vocals, freshman Aaron Estes also on guitar and vocals. junior Tom Dolphin on drums and freshman Luis Moctezuma on bass, this group ha.., plenty of different musical interests to draw from. "We lis­ten to music ranging 

from Santana to Red Hot Chili Peppers to Pink Floyd ­and it all affects our sound," Luis said. Though the band is young, they're quick on the draw, already hav­ing two to three original songs to present. along with some covers, tonight at NAZZ. "We decided to· apply for NAZZ because we all wanted a band and an audi­ence, the opportunity for other people to hear us," Luis said. The guys want to keep playing together and to expand their gigs and play some parties. Though it's not quite certain why, the band insists they want to be the steering wheel. "because it's round." 


Soloists tak~ the stage by storm in style 
....
...., 
V, 

::s
..., 

Senior Justin Dunn has been playing music since he was three, when he picked up his first violin. lie started singing before high school and somewhere in those high school years, he quit the Yiolin. Len with his vocal talents, Justin decided to try the guitar freshman year here al Notre Oame to complete his songs and provide the opportunity to do more performing. .Justin practiced throughout his freshman year and was play­ing AcoustiCa.fo hy the end of the year. His sophomore year, Justin tl'amed up with his thl'n-Notrn Damn S<'nior brother, Aaron. to record a CD and play NAZZ. Last year. Justin gave a solo performance at NAZZ. What he rmnembcrs most was when he ran over time covering "JI' I !lad a Million Dollars" by Bare l\aked Ladies. Though they pulled the plug on him. the crowd kept right on singing. This year. Justin will sing a mix of covers and originals for us, with tho originals display­ing his "folk-alternative" sound. llis style takes some cues from Dave MattlHnvs Band. JackoPierce and Simon and Garl'unkJ.,I. An experienced NAZZer, Justin feels that the Batt!!' of the Hands is OM of the best things SUH does. "It's a 
healthy environ­
ment,;. Justin added. Lastly, .Justin wants to be Ginger Spice. and not because of her glamorous sex appeal, but because "she was wise enough to leave!" 
Bill 


Senior Bill Varettoni, a member of Doc Brown, is no stranger to performing. though the solo performance he will be gracing us with tonight is a rare treat. "Writing personal songs has always been my catharsis, though I seldom write to perform," Bill said. NAZZ will be Bill's third solo public performance. On stage will be Bil!, his acoustic guitar and original songs with a funky-rock sound. Most of his musical influence derives from Michael Hedges, who Bill declares a "phenomenal guitarist" and from music teachers over the years. Bill played NAZZ last year with Doc Brown. but says this year "l figured since l was leaving it would be nice to do something on my own." While Bill was confident in his decision to perform at NAZZ, he couldn't quite decide whether he would prefer 
to. be... ~urry Spice [ 1t s yel­low and packs a punch"] or the drive shaft or a car ["it gets stuff going"!. 
Photo Courtesy of Bill Varettoni 


Senior Christian Parilla will bn soothing our cars this evening with his jazz and blues vocals and style on the piano. Ilaving spent 17 years playing, Christian is sum to amaze the audience. 

Josie Vodicka is a second year grad­
uate student in creative writing. She's been playing guitar, 
singing and writing songs for about six 
years now She plays almost all originals. 
She listens to jazz. mainly, but also anything 
from Alison Krauss to Zap Mama. Hight 
now. she's a big fan of Lucinda Williams, a Ifolksy/countryish songwriter with a pop 
edge. "That's the kind of stuff I like to play, 
tlw kind of acoustic music that doesn't 
Pxartly fit into a neat genre, but plays off all 
sorts of influPnces. from jazz to world or 
what have you." Josie said. She played at 
NAZZ last year and thought it was a great 
experi1'nce. "It's interesting to see what 
people are doing musically on campus. It's a 
good event because some of these 

bands/solo acts seem to come out of the PhotocourtesyofJosieVocticka 
woodwork and it gives everybody a chance to hear campus musicians that don't necessarily play out a lot," she said. Josie plans to continue with music when she's done at '.\!otre Danw. As far as the car part or Spice Girl is concerned, Josie said "I would just rather not be the exhaust pipe !which is what the Spico Girls would be if they were part of an automo­bileJ." 
Solo Line-up 
----1. 
C 
ra
....
.... 
V, 
.,... 
.c: ~ 
u 

Drawing from sur,h _grnats as George Gershwin. Scott .Joplin, B.B. King and Glen Millnr, Christian·s sound ranges from rough blues Lo smooth swing to mellow jazz. Most impressivnly, Christian doesn't havn anything planned for tonight. Ilow is this impressive you ask't Ile will be making it up as Im goes along -straight imprnv. Christian played at Lim Blues Festival two ynars ago and makes appearances at i\coustiCaf'c. and he also appeared in NAZZ last year. Tho most memorable monwnt for Christian from last year's performance was rolling a piano <lnwn tlrn sidnwalk. In tho frantic search for an instnrrn,•nt, he was caught unprnpared and wingnd it quite successfully. "Making a fool of' myself in front of' a largo crowd is always a good idea," Christian said. And when it comes to cars, Chrislian sees himself' as a shoddy muf!ler. "It makes a lot ol' noise but keeps a rhythm going anyways." 

,... 
~ 
\  ,·-·-·:>·•.  -~  
.,  
\  \'\,"··''•':\_· ., .'''.'\'?  

Photo Courtesy of Christian P~rilla" 

s:oo p.rn. 
9:00 p.rn. 1o:oo p.rn. 1 1 :oo p.rn. 12:00 p.n1. 
Vinita Ollapally Josie Vodicka Bill Varettoni Christian Parilla Justin Dunn 

Junior Vinita Ollapally will be performing solo tonight with her guitar and her "hard folk" style. lier musical inflwrnces include Ani Difranco, Joan Osborn and Dar Williams. though she enjoys listening to anything "from Bela Fleck to rrankie Bones to Blur to Ani. Ani. Ani." She plays mostly originals but will includo somo covers. 
When it comes to music, Vinita says "I love writing and per­forming music, but because I'm still pretty inexperienced I'm just trying to get a feel for how far I can go with it." This is her first NAZZ apptiarance. She decided to apply when a friend 
suggested she try it. When she appears in a car, Vinita wants to lw tlw hula girl 011 tlrn dash­board, "because she's weird and cute and 1wery guy wants lo hav,~ lwr." 




Friday, March 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Fencing 
continued from page 36 
Carnic•k"s 7.7 rPcord was 0spP· dally surprising. Tlw fresbmun l'rom Mishawaka finished the yrar strong-with a Midwest Conl'f'l'PllCP Ppm· championship and was expected to br a k1•y pir•cc· in a possible !\Jotre Dame !Hlliomtl championship. 
Notrl' DamP h,,ad roach Yves t\uriol rhalkcd up the bud start by thc• np1,p team to norvcs and inrxprrimwP 
"Thew an, a littll' bit i11timi­dutrd a·nd a littk bit nervous:· h1"\ said. '"Epi·n is thr kind of wmtpon whrrn if" you lose your focus vou losP a f'P\\' toL1ches and yo·u ;.n, in trouble." 
But just when it seemed that tlw Irish had i"rncod thomselvos out of competition for f'irst place on thi• first day. Magda Krol and Liza Boutsikaris took tlw strips for the women's foil c-ompPtition. 
Boutsikaris rnmbined for 20 wins and _just eig-ht losses as thr Irish climbi>d into third placf' -just three points b(ihind Sll('ond plac,'. St. John·s and within striking distancri of the lradrr. P1•nn State. 
"!Third placrl is gTPat for our L<'am.'' Krol said. "It's even a highrr ranking that I expect-1-ed af"tAr tlie first dav. I think that if we kf'ep up th~ inlPnsity and finish strong tomorrow. it could br very good for the men going into Sattirday." 
Krol's intensity carried her to second place after thr first four rounds with a 12-2 record. Krol split two bouts with Stanford and dofoated Susan Jennings of Columbia. who lin­ished four in epee at the 1999 Championships. Krol's only other loss came against Kristen Dorf of Northwest.em. 
"I kind of lost [her intPnsity] -.vhen I lost the two bouts [in the se1:ond round,]" she said. "But right now, l have it back. I felt [the intensitv] in the third round and in the.last round." 
Krol and Bou Lsikaris finished the day on a high note for the Irish as the swept the fourth round and pir,kcd up six points. 
The women will fence the last four rounds of each weapon today before the men take the strips on Saturday and Sunday. Auriol said he expected a slow starl from the women but the men, who are tl1e strength of this year"s team, should make a run at the title over the weekend. 
"It could have been worse," he said about being in third place after the first day. "I 

Senior foilist Magda Krol scored a touch in the NCAA finals Thursday evening. Krol placed sec­
ond in her pool. The NCAA finals continue this weekend. 
thought we were struggling a her 7-7 record but said that hope to take the strip Friday a little bit but we are in decent she would fence better today. little more relaxed and a little position for the final days. It's "A lot of the people I lost to, more focused. another day tomorrow and l can beat no problem," she "We just need to be steady." then our men are the stronger said. "My mind just wasn't Auriol said. "We have some squad. I guess we were expect­focused." tough matches against Penn ing to be were we are now. " With four rounds of fencing State and Princeton ftodayl but 
Mazur was surprised with under their belts, the Irish we are still in the picture." 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Purdue victory ends Gonzaga's Cinderella run 
second appearance in a region­gave eventual champion The Badgers (21-13) will meet 22-14 lead. LSU went scoreless
Associaied Press 
al final in that span. Purdue lost Connecticut a major scare. This Purdue (24-9) on Saturday for a over the final 5:03. to Duke in the Southeast final in year, the Bulldogs were at it spot in the Final Four. The Wisconsin took twice as many
ALIH..iQUEHQUE, N.M. 

1994. again, until they were shut Boilermakers beat Gonzaga 75-shots as LSU in the first half andGonzaga is gone, don11 in by Carson Cunningham added 14 down bv the Boilermakers. 66 in the other semifinal. the Tigers had as many
defonsP and rebounding. and 
points, Greg McQuay scored 11 Gonziga made several runs at Coupled with Michigan State's turnovers as points. LSU fin­Purdu1• coach Gene Keady is and Brian Cardinal had 10 for Purdue. win over Syracuse in the ished with 23 turnovers to one victory from his first trip to Purdue. Cardinal had eight Down 61-45 with six minutes Midwest, the Big Ten has three Wisconsin's 9. 
tlw Final Four. 
rebounds, and Cornell and to play, the Bulldogs scored teams in the final eight. It got uglier in the secondPurdue slowed the game Lo a 
Mr,Quay grabbed seven apiece eight in a row, the last six by Jon Bryant led Wisconsin with half.
half-court pace and pesternd 
as Purdue dominated the Calvary, to cut it to 61-53 with 16 points, Stromile Swift and An offensive rebound basketGonzaga ·s guards into a miser­boards 44-33, 20-13 on the 3:35 remaining. But after a Jabari Smith each scored 12 for by Lamont Roland got LSU with­able shooling night to beat the offensive end. timeout, Cardinal scored inside. LSU (28-6). in 26-18, but the Badgers usedBulldogs 7!i-Ci6 on Thursday Casey Calvary scored 20 then batted the ball to the back­LSU, which used its speed and a 10-0 run to take a 36-18 lead
night in th,• \Vest Regional 
points and Axel Dench had 14 court to a teammate after frontline duo of Swift and Smith with 13:44 left. Bryant's 3­s1•mili1mls. 
for No. 10 sep,d Gonzaga (26-9). Cornell"s missed free throw. to beat Southeast Missouri State pointer got the run going and.laraan CornPll. whose sea• Hichie Frahm scored 14 but Mike Robinson scored on a and Texas in the first two Duany Duany's 3-pointer endedson-long shooting slump came nearly all came late in the goaltending call against rounds. hit a wall against a it. Bryant also scored on a layupto an <·nd wlwn tlw NCAA tour­game. He was 1-f'or-5 from 3-Calvary. and Gonzaga's tourna­Wisconsin team that forced its and Maurice Linton added ananwnt bngan, sc(m\d 18 points point range. Matt Santangelo, ment magic had run out. deliberate, halfcourt offense jumper from just inside the arc.
!"or the sixth-sncded 
like Frahm in his final collegiate and man defense on the frus­Wisconsin advanced despiteBoilrrmakers (24-9), who play game, was 4-for-18 from the trated Tigers. missing 18 of its first 2 3 shots
Wisconsin ga1rn~ in Saturday's Wisconson 61, LSU 48
field, 1-for-7 on 3-pointers. The 48 points were the fewest and shooting 38 percent. But
rrginnal linal. Wisconsin is still winning
Gonzaga, a small Jesuit col­scored bv LSU this season. The while the Badgers were having
In KPady's 20 srasons at ugly, with the plodding but pro­
lege in Spokane, Wash., cap­previous·1ow was 57 in a loss to trouble scoring in the game's
PurduP. llw Boilnrmakrrs have ductive Badgers beating LSU on
tured the heart of basketball Florida in January. first 15 minutes. LSU was hav­
bPl'n Lo Llw round of 16 f'ive Thursday night to make it an all
fans last soason with its run to Wisconsin scored the final 11 ing a difficult time holding onto
Limes. including thr last threr Big-Ten final in the West
the West final. where the 'Zags points of the first half to take a the ball.
yPars. But this will be just their Regional. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr ro edit all classifieds for con rent wirhour issuing refunds. 
South Bend based company is Staying for the summer? 2 bed-Fax it fast! presently in search of a dynamic rooms. 2 bath apartment for lease. Fax it fast! 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-MId Frr 7:30am-7:00prn Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Mid Free Pick-Up & Deliveryl Call 631 ·COPY We're open late so your order wilt be done on time! 
Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls Research http://www geocities.com:80/ Athens/ Rhodes/7031/deadsea.html 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: Metal watch in Hesburgt1 Library.Call Tim to 1dent1ly @ 247­1107. 
FOUND: Beaded arrowhead neck lace. Claim at Observer office, basement of South Dining Hall. 
WANTED 
ASPIRING WRITERS! 

www.maincampus.com seeks stu­dents for stones ranging from Pohtics/Sex/Culture/Opin1ons $25 per story' Email usat: 
eam@maincarnpus.com 
The South Bend Parks & Recreatron Department (The CitV of South Bend) is currently accepting applications for golf rangers, con­cessions, beverage cart drivers (must be 21) and other seasonal help. Pay ranges from $6.00-$8.00 per hour. Apply at the County City Bldg. 14th floor EOE 
SUMMER JOB: Caregiver: two chil­dren, ages 7&8. Mon-Fri,7:30AM· 3:15PM. Jun 12,Aug 18 Granger. 272-6107 or 284-3485 
HELP1!! I need 2 extra !Ix for gradu­ation. It you can help me, please call Rachel @ 246-1072. 
accomplished IT professional/Web guru for the development of its new internet business team. Successful candidate possesses advanced computer skills and has an extensive knowledge of all aspects of web management, graphic/technical design and pro­gramming. Fo,ward resume to: Human Resource Dept. PO Box 1007 Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
South Bend based company seeks talented graphic designer. Advanced PhotoShop and other design software skills required. Send resume, salary requirements and portfolio samples to Personell Dept. PO Box 30 Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
HELP1I! I need 2 exlra tix for gradu­ation. ff you can help me, please call Rachel @ 246-1072 
FOR RENT 

HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed­room, $1000/month. 2) 4-bedroom, $900/month. 3) 3-bedroom, $700. Call Bill at 675-0776. We'll make almost any changes to the houses. 
U21 Rarick 3 Bedroom, Family room with Fireplace, Fenced Backyard, C/A Gas Heat, Across From Park, Very Safe Neighborhood $995/mo. 12 mo. lease Call 232-4527 Close to Campus 219-340-1844 616-683-5038 

Look! New Home for Rent 314 Bedroom 3 Bath. Cathsdral Ceilings, Fireplace,Retrig,Range,Disp,Dish, Washer & Dryer.Gas heat/ CIA, 2· car garage.Family room.Close to Campus. 616-683-5038 219-232-4527 219-340-1844 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097 Washer/dryer, just oft campus. Call 4-4238 if interested. 
FOR SALE 
New Phone Card 886 mins. $20 258-4805 or 243-9361 
Home for sale: 3 BR, 2 Bth, 2000 sq ft+ full basement, 2 car .gar. 5 min from ND, $99K By appt. 288­9167 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 
PERSONAL 
www.thecommentator.com 
SI says this could be the year. I agree. The curse has to end some 11me 

Fax it fast! Sending & Receiving THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-3291 
One week until the Lewis Crush!! 
LESBIAN? GAY? FRIEND OR FAMILY of someone who is? You're welcome to join others on Retreat. March 31-April 1. Call Tom@ 1-4112 or Alyssa 4-3194 ior details. 
.,, er... 
I don't know about anyone else. but I'm looking forward to pancakes 
Pedro! Pedro! Pedro! 
cocktail talk: 
gesamtkuntstwerk 
talk amongst yourselves, ~The SinNott 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 24, 2000 
MLB 
Cardinals swap Bottenfield for Angels' Edmunds 
needs. it was such an attractive 
Associated Press 
deal that it just made a lot of sense tu us. and it made sense
LOS ANGELES 

from the Cardinals' standpoint.
Desporate for pitching help. 
the Anaheim ,\ngels finally 
with a 3.97 ERA last season.
unloaded Jim Edmonds. 
and made thr. NL All-Star team.
The Angels arquired 18-g-amr 
lie cntr.n-1d last year having
winner Kent BottPnfield and 
won just 18 big-league games.
second basP.man Adam 
Starting pitching has been a
Kennedy from the St. Louis 
major question-mark !'or the
Cardinals on Thursday for the 
Angels. who lost ace Chuck
(wo-limr. Gold Glove centPr 
Finlcv to the Cleveland Indians 
DeldP-r 
via free ag0ncy during thn ol'f­
Eligiblt' for frer agency after 
season. Bottf:nneld gives them
thP season, Edmonds had been 
a proven starter.
rumored to be on his wav to 
"lle's a guy who found him­
Oakland S1•atlle and the New 
self (last year). and had bAen
York Yankees in rec1rnl 
having a good spring training
months. 
Lhis year." Stoneman said. "The 
t; enc ral man agrr Bill 
reports on both of these players
Stoneman recently s,tid he 
were outstanding."
wouldn't tradP. Edmr;nds. Then. 
Edmonds, 29. hit .250 with
h1• got an offer he couldn't 
five homers and 23 HBls in just
rnfusr. 
55 gam<is l1tst season al'tPr
'"This is something that ('.amr 

being sidelined until August
togPthrr very quickly." 
whilr rrcovcring from surgery
Stonrman said from the Angels' 
on his right shoulder.
spring training headquarters in 
lie had a bniakout season 
Tempe, ,\riz. "\\'hen it started 
with the Angels in 199!'i. hitling
to bPcomP apparent that WP 
.290 wilh 3;~ homers ,tnd 107
might bf' ablf' to fill two of our 
RBIs. A lnl't-handr.d hill(H, 
NEED AJOB FOR NEXT YEAR? 
Student Activities is now hiring for the 2000-2001 academic year. 
Positions available: Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew DeBartolo Event Manager Information Desk LaFortune Building Managers Office Assistants ND Cake Service ND Express Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers 24 Hour Lounge Monitors 
Applications available at 315 LaFortune or on-line at U11v111N.nd.edu/ ~sao/forms. 
Deadline for applications is Monday. March 27. 
f~~ii1'1! lNTERNATlONAL VLLLAGE Joir, the Office of !ntemationa! Student Affairs and inlernalional student groups as we celebrate the (nlernational Village ·· a 2-day CULTURAL DISPLAY of clothing, jeweir::,; books, music, posters. and arts artd crafts from over ,o countries. Learn about other cultures and countries!! Travel the world without leaving Notre Dame!! lnrtrnatio1UJI 1<,Jmhmtn1s wf{( &, scrvu/... FREE ADMJSSION. EVERYONE 15 lNV!TED!/1 'WJ..-lJ::;N? Sunday, MaT'Ch ,6 11 om • 5 pm MasJay. M"'-rch '17 9 c,m -5 om \)(ihJ::;RJ::;? \.el=o-.kane 9o;l,'00m, ,rJ J=loor l..!i=o-r'<une Stude•t Co0 te~ ·n... .......tlu"""""""' tur,.""""'; uu,Ww'\J"'-• c,-,c...... hinuW\ip o......J WiA er,.,,,... tl-.... ~..t.a °'-l Pc.J,r,to,,(P=t...O....,.J 0-1,1= (~~81""Mt e,...,J ~ o.-.:..~BW..t o"l~,J r_.,,...,, c-,,,... ('llow r:i.,,.. 'U..:tocl ~0-c.J 0.,..(0..,,.,. ~&...t.t> IA­~~ -t,>:., ~­__.,,,_ ... I/IITERNmoNAt. WEEK 2000 ­THE WORLD CONVERGES AT NOTRE:~:"' ,:::·:,  

Edmonds avPraged 27 homers "lie was a proven commodity rmt like Jimmy is not going to a season from 1995-98 and and a lot of Learns had interest be replaced. Fortunately for us. won AL (;old Gloves in both in him," first-year /\ngr.ls man­I think we havo enough guys 1997 and '1998. agnr Mike Scioscia said...A ta\-that can do the job." 
Castle~oiot 
Apartments 
.., ~­
' 1\ 
_, 

Resort Living Vear-round at 
Castle Point Apartments = 
A resident ofCa:stle Po"1nt can l~ad an 11ctive life or a quiet life where ,0nie:"s home is truly 2 castle. ill-I
Located on the corner ofClevda.nd :ind. Ironwood, Ca:&tlc: Point in neat University Pnrk Mall, , 
downtown Somh Bend, Michigan. the ToU R.o~d ';Ind many other major ro2dways. ,w • Ap:artrnenB a.re ,padous, fully eupctt:d 2nd ,:i:vailable in a va.riety ofsiu:s 2nd stylt"-S indudi.ng _ -~· tome with round bcdroam.t and loftt. Fully-equipped kitchen., offer a convenience ofeasy care living enabling rnore free rime to enjoy the H~alth 1;1.nd R;u;quct Club.•. another amenity •t Cude Point, A swim.ming pool, indoor and outdoor rcmn!:s courts. r'&cquctbalJ couru, saunas, wh.irlpool, exercise room plus indoor and outdoor ba.ske1baH a:nd sand volleyball courts uc also av.ilable to t'e'!lidencs ofCastle Point. 
.. Why rent somewhete el~ a11d pay for health dub ;activities when one t":a,n live (hete) and ~nj6y the s~me he~th dub privileges." uidJ2-ck Goen,, General Manager u Cutle Poinr...(\Ve) have virtually everything thllc a health dub hn!'" 
Comparing chc cost ofhealth clubs against the cost ofliving 2c Castle Poim with fu.u health and racquet club privileges, Gocn:s said s.evcral hundred dollan can be saved. 
Ad'd~d Coem, ther~ ia the King's H-all where parties can be. scheduled, A full~tlmc activities director also org.anizc11 regular evene. for Castle Point ,esidcntlf who m.ay wish ro aerobic dance... or simply have a privat~ puty ~~hcdult:d 2t the clubhouse, 
Office hours at Castle Point Apartments are 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday and on Saturdayfrom 10 a.m. until 6 p.m., Sunday noon to 6 
p.m. For more information regardingliving "the regal life" call Castle Point 
at (219) 272-8110. • ~!!!~'Poiot 
Friday, March 24, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
"Calling Us All to Jubilee Debt Relief" 
TUESDAY, March 28, 2000 7:00-9:00PM 
Ms. BAYINNAH BELLO -HAITI @ Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's AND DR. ELIZEUS RUTEBEMBERWA -UGANDA FR. ToM McDERMOTT, CSC -UGANDA @ Morrissey Hall, University of Notre Dame 
"Jubilee Debt Relief & Women's Concerns" 
THURSDAY, March 30, 2000 7:30-9:00PM 
SR. ESTHER AoJOA ENTSIWAH -GHANA Ms. BAYYINAH BELLO -HAITI @ the Center for Social Concerns 
"The Church Responds to Jubilee Debt Relief" 
FRIDAY, March 31, 2000 12:00-2:00PM 
ARCHBISHOP OSCAR RODRIGUEZ -HONDURAS @ the Center for Social Concerns -Refreshments Served 
"Jubilee Debt Relief: A Call for Global Solidarity & Response" 
SATURDAY, April 1, 2000 3:00-4:30PM 
ARCHBISHOP OSCAR RODRIGUEZ -HONDURAS SR. ESTHER AnJOA ENTSIWAH -GHANA DR. ELIZEUS RuTEBEMBERWA -UGANDA @ Notre Dame's Snite Auditorium 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE -Center for Social Concerns HOLY CROSS COLLEGE -Campus Ministry CATHOLIC CHARITIES 
-SALT & LIGHT 
HOLY CROSS FAMILY OF CONGREGATIONS 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 24. 2000 
PGA 

Woods survives round one of Players Championship 
Associated Press 
PONTE VEDHJ\ BEACH. Fla. 
TigPr Woods made his first doubl<' bogry in 223 hoks. Hal Sutton was thP only player to break 70. Lloth !'Alt a sensP of rrlief when thEw finished the 
first  round  or"The  Plavers  
Championship.  ·  
Thcv survived.  

Sutton figun~d out when to 
attack and when to take his lumps. firing 
a 3-under 6<J in rool. blusterv conditions Thursdav. 

The sco;e Woods is the high­est to lead the tournament in 
the 19 years it has been played on the TPC at Sawgrass. 
Two-time U.S. Open champi­on Lee Janzen. no stranger to demanding conditions. was among sevP.n players at 70. Woods, tied for the lead after 16 holes. hit into the water on the island-grren 17th en route to the double bogey and a 71. 
Omar Urrsti was at 2 undrr through 16 holrs when play was suspended by darkness with 21 playns still on the course. 
"That's what makes this a major." Sutton said. "\1ajor championships ... you've got to be patiPnt whPn rnnditions get difficult on a great golf rnurse." 
And likP a major. therr were plenty of horror stories. 

Craig Stadler had a double­hit out of the rough on No. 12 that led LO a triple bogey. 
lie made another one on the 16th when he chunked a wedge about 4 feet. then got so l'ed up that he swatted his ball over the green and into the water. 
At least it wasn't moving. like what John Daly did in tho U.S. Open last year. 
·•1 did a few 
Course. although he had few complaints. · 
Showing the power and con­trol that has carrird him to 10 victories in his last 16 evrnts on the l'GA Tour, Woods was tird with Sutton at 3-undP.r when he stood on the 17th tee box, staring at the swaying palms and pines as hr tried to gauge the wind. 
llis 9-iron 
things I've never done," Stadler said.  "J wasn't upset at all when the ball went in the  started right, caught a gust and splashed  
Chris Perry had a chance to tie for the lead  water: I figured I'd knock it up there."  down about 5 feet short of land. After  
with  an  eagle  taking a drop  
putt on No. 11. Four putts later. he walked  Tiger Woods pro golfer  and putting his next shot some 40 feet above  
off  with  a  tho  hole,  ho  

bogey. had to make a 10-l'ooter for his 
Defending champion David first double bogey since the Duval bogcycd five or eight thi.rd round of the Nissan Oprn. holes and had a 75. Ile didn't get mad. Ile cer­
''It's not that great of a tainly didn't get oven. Woods scorP," he said. 'Tm not partic­simply added up his sr,orn and ularly pleased. But at the sam<' f'igured anything under par ti1rn>., it's not terrible on a day wasn't such a bad dav. like this. It's a long race." "That's why I wasn't upset at 
It could br a short week for all wlH'n the ball went in thr those who signed for an 80 or water." he said. "I figured I'd worse -22 players, including knock it up thrre. make my Sergio Garcia (82) and Phil double, play 18 and still shoot a Mickclson (831. number in the r<~d." 
'Tm very happy to get off thc Sutton's 69 was the worst course." Billv Mavfair said aftrr scorn to lead Thr !'!avers his 70. lie \~as the only player Championship after the ·first to reach 4 under in the first round sincr a 70 by seven play­round. Prs, inrluding Jark Nic.klaus, in 
Woods. meanwhilr. kPpt one 1978 whrrn it was playr,d arross streak alive. Llw strnPl at Sawgrass Country Ile still hasn't broken 70 in Club. 
1 :1 rounds on the Stadium Thr wind blew about 20 mph, 
but consider two holes by Woods. 
On the 535-yard 11th hole, hr hit driver 348 yards and an 8-iron 190 yards to set up a two-putt birdie. On the 358­yard 12th hole, which goes the opposite direction, Woods hit driver and still had a wedge from about 100 yards to reach the grren. 
He birdied both, and needed them lat!'r. 
"The golf wurse was showing its teeth out there." Sutton said. "You couldn't get through with­out making some bogeys." 
Most playrrs would have been happy with that consider­ing therr were 144 scores of double bogey or worse on Thursday. 
Sutton might have avoided one on the fourth hole when his 
BE "IN IT TO WIN IT" ON YOUR 21ST! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
ELLEN! 
tne shot barnly bouncrd into the rough. leaving him 120 yards to llrn grnen over a pond. 
He acted lih it was a U.S. Open, pitching saf'nly to the !'airway to take double bog<-~y out of the P.quation. 
"You want lo stay away from a big number if you can," he said. "That's what makc!s this golf coursP gnHLL There's always that urge to test it." 
Sutton picked his spots, hit­ting a 4-wood into 8 foet for an ragle on No. 2. He also had Pagle awimpts on the I1th and 16th. two-putting both of thrm. and hit a couple of 9-irons into 2 feet for routine birdies. 
"This is a vrry penalizing course," Mirkelson said. "But obviously, some guys shot under par. so it couldn't have bren that unfair." 


Friday, March 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
Golf 
continued from page 36 
first tournament appearance since the Johnson administra­tion wcrn heightened with a solid second place finish at the TrPasurP Coast Classic in Port St. Lucir. Florida. Led by Connell who posted a top livR finish in the individual <'ompe­tition, Notre Darn<> was ever so barely nipped at the tourna­ment's (ind by a vrry rompeti­tive Libertv Learn. 
Al'tPr so· much fall surcess. the Irish ½ill be forr,ed to raise thcir levcl or play a notch, while doing thP opposite to tlwir scores· if they an' to rise in the• national rankings. 
"\Ve didn't play against a lot or tlw bBsL warns in the fall." Hatay sai<l "The lt>v1cl of corn­pcti tion this spring will br high,ir, so wt>'ll bH tested narlv .. ThP Irish seem pre­pared to acn CVl'ry one of' their upcoming exams. With confi­d<'ncp at an all-tim<' high, thn Irish will bP looking to ostab­lish thr>msPivr.s as a national powr.r. and an NCAA tourna­nH\nt birth would be the higg('St sLPp thPy could takP towards Lhut goal. "It would b,~ hugr," Ratay said of a potrntial NCA:\ bid. "That's LhP way to get attrnUon. When guys dPcidr whrrr to go out of high school. that's one of thP first things they look at. They want to know whr.ther or not vou madP thP NCAAs." · Tlw fat·t that tht•y are play­ing for somPthing morr than wins is what pPrhaps sPpa­rntm; th(• Irish f'rom their com­petitors. With a sudden swell in talrnt and the opening of a bPautifu! nr>w course. the Irish frPI prr.ssurn to perform well, 
knowing that talent and facili­ties can only do so much to establish a national reputa­tion; they know they need to win. Wh.ile it mav be a strPtch to say that the future of the program rides on the suct.:ess of this year's squad. strong play in the NCAAs this spring would go a long way in help­ing the Irish gain the position they want so dearly. 
Hoping to mimic 
While the success of the their male counterparts has perhaps overshadowed the Notre Dame women's golf team, it is has become increasingly evidt>nt that thP ladies of the links are not to be overlooked. Like the men, the Irish women hope to help uslrnr in the golden era of Notre DamP golf. Led by sophomore Kristin \1c'.'vlurtie, who posled a career best round of 73 to tir fur third. the Irish finished eighth in the 20­tcam Snowbird Invitational. 
Juniors \.1arv Klein and 
Shane Smith als:.1 played well, 
and will be kev factors in the 
l!rnm's anticipated emergence 
as a national power, an emer­
gence in which the Warren 
Gulf Course will play a major 
role. 

The Crown Jewel 
With the Lalenl in place and opportunities to win ahead, the Irish have put themselves in great position to become a national power at the perfect time. With the Warren Golf Course sPt to open. the Irish will gain a powerful recruiting tool. The antiquated. relatively plain, nine-hole facility that previously served as the team's home course did little to attract recruits. The new 
Warren Golf Course, which purports itself to be of cham­pionship ralibN should sPrve as a recruiting magnet. The par 71 layout designed by two­time Masters champion Ben Crenshaw promises to be one of college golf's 
finest facilities. It's likely that the course's beautv will work to offset the recr11iting disadvantage l\'otre Dame has dnA to its weather. Many top recruits choose to play thrir college golf in the south, where warm Wfrnther allows for year round play. A course as nice as \Varren will go far in dissuading would be stars from venturing south. instead wooing them to Our Lady's University. 
Though the Wa.rrnn Course is not yet open to the public (the new target date is '.'vlay 1), members of the golf team have had a chanr,p to tPst their skills on the new links. 
"It's a great course, not too easy, not too difficult," Ratay noted. "I think it'll be a good home advantage for us. The greens are tricky, and undu­lating, so local knowledge is a goo<l thing to have." 
The course will favor shot­
makers, as accuracy of the tee 
will be required. The rourse's 
rather short layout (less than 
7000 yards) puts a premium 
on accuracy rather than dis­
tance. 
Hazards are common, as 
players will encounter lakes 
on both nines, as well as a 
creek that winds through the 
finishing holes. 
"You have to be accurate," 
Ratav said. "You need to keep 
it in play." 
Boasting a beautiful layout, 
and a clubhouse with all the 
necessarv amenities, the 
Warren Golf Course should 


Senior Jeff Connell tees off at last weekend's Treasure Coast Classic. Connell's total of 223 over the three-day tournament led the Irish. 
further Notre Dame's cause with a good showing they can and help it rise to the ranks of boost their national standing the nation's elite programs. considerably. Wins will bring top recruits, which will bring national recognition. It would
Golden Era? 
be a shame not to take advan­Every shot will matter that tage of the recruiting possibili­much more this spring. With ties the new course will pre­
talent and a sparkling new 
sent. For Notre Dame golf. thefacility, the Irish know that future is now. 
"1¥1iy not: give ~ being .L-'AZYfor .Lent:?? 

COME DC> COMMUNITY SERVICE VVITH NOTRE DAME CIRCLE K! ! 
We provide: 
* 
Over 20 different weekly community service projects in the South Bend community, you can choose whichever fits into your schedule. 

* 
Transportation to and from each ofthe projects from library circle. 

* 
The opportunity to meet friends, share memories, and give back to those who are less fortunate. 


Come to our general meeting to find out more!! 
SUNDAY• 7 P'M: • LIBR.AR.V AUDITORIUM 
www.nd.edu/--circlek 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 24, 2000
page 28 

======-=--=---=---=---=--_---:.__---:.__-_-_-_-~~~--_---:.__-----­
---_----~---_-_-_-_-_­
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 

Experience, training drive sprinter 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN ,\.,sociare -'f>Orts Editor 
Senior sprinwr Chris Codmm is reaping tlw rewards of four years worth of' hard work this sNtson. 
Cochran has racked up two Big East titl<'s and earned 
A I I 
American honors in the distance 

m e cl I e y Cochran rPl11y. "That's basically thf' ultimate thing lO do," said Cochran of being an All-American. Cochran rnn the 400-meter l1:ig on Notre Dame's senior-dominat­ed distance medley relay at the Indoors Nati01ml Championships. 
The squad captured sixth place in a timo or nine minutes, :~8.82 seconds. just of'f Lhe srhool record it set Aarlier this vear of 
9:38.15. Joining Cochran-on thr. All-American relay cre,v were seniors Tim KobPr on the 800­meter leg and Phil Mishka at 1200-meters, along with sopho­more Luke Watson i·unning the 1600-meter leg. 
"I can't say it was one of our best races, but we weren't that far off our best time," Cochran said. "Overall, we were looking to step it up a little bit more for the big meet, but in rnality, it did­nOt happen." 
Earlier in the indoor season, 
Cochran captured two of his 
three career Big East 
Championships. Last year, he 
won the 400-meter Outdoors 
Championship. This season, he 
beat out his opponents in the 60­
meter dash and the 400-meter 
run. 
Turning to his senior season, 
Cochran developed a sense of 
urgency. 
"The big change in my mind is you know ifs your last year," Cochran said. "Now it's do or die right now." 

Cochran's been accomplishing most of his goals for llrn year. Th<' biggPst aim lell on his list is winning a Big East Championship as a wam. As a team captain, pulling off Notro Dame's first-ever 13ig East Ch11mpionship would be a major feat. 
"He leads certainly bv his actions," hf\ad track ~nc( fi!'lct coach Joe Piane said. "Ile's a great runner. Ho's a many time Big East champion. Ihi'Il do any­thing that Coach 1.Jolinl Millar of sprints asks him to." 
Cochran's high school career was marrt. cl by a slew of' injuries. 
"Ho r.ame in with a lot of !al­enL." Piane said, "flut he Vias injured a great deal during high school, so I think thal his tfthint was largely untapped." 
In becoming onP or Notre Dame's best track athl<'tos, Cochran devoted a greaL deal ol' time in tl1f\ off-season to training and practice. He also became more in tune with how much strnss his body can handle, lead­ing him to avoid the injuries that plagued his high school career. 
"Weights is the big thing that's 
led me to be healthv," Cochran 
said. "I think that's also led to my 
body being stronger, and led my 
body to not be as susceptible to 
injury." 
With the added strength, 
Cochran had raised his expecta­
tions and lowered his times on 
the track. In the 200-mctcr dash. 
he is aiming to run around 21 
seconds by the end of the year, 
while in the 400-meter run, 46 
seconds is the time to beat. 
'Tve always been striving to be 
high 45s, low 46s," Cochran said. 
When Cochran won the 400­
meter run at February's Big East 
Indoors Championships, he ran a 
strong time of :47.76, but one 
that, in his mind, leaves room for 
improvement. 
ALL STADIUM SEATING • ALL DIGITAL SOUND 
SHOWPLACE 16 
Just West of Main St on Chi ewa • 299-6063 Students and Seniors s4_so Anytime 
s4,so All Shows Before 6 pm • Adva~~='ll~k~t~ales Available ;7 6. 
AII Times for Mar. 24-26 Only 
Return to ::vle (PG-13) Digital 
. SNEAK PREVIEW 
7:20 PM. on Saturday 3/25 Only' · Here on Earth (PG-13) . Digitnl
[12:40 3:(X)] 5:20 7:40 10:10 , Whatever It Takl!S iPG-13) Dieitul [J:UO 2:50] 5:10 7:30 9:50 ~ 
Sweet and Lowdown (PG-13) 
112:45 3:15] 5:30 8:00 10:15 trin Brockovich (R) Digital 12:50] 3:50 6:50 9:55 
l :20J 4:20 7:25 I 0:20 · 150 4:50 7:50 I 0:40 .• Romeo Must lJie (R) Digital · ~!JO] 4: IO 7:fXJ 9:45 
2:15] '\:00 7:45 10:30 1\ v Do~ Skip (PG) Digital 
!
: rr·45J 4:os ti:45 
--,---------_..........,......... 
SCOTTSDALE 6 
Scottsdale Mall • 299-6063 
· Stuart Little (PG) [ I :20] 4:00 6:40 9:00 Sixth Sense (PG-13) [1:50] 4:20 7.10 10:00 · Eye ofthe Beholder (R) [l·lO] 4.10 7-Cl(I 9::\0 

Saturday & Sunday Matinees i11 Bra~kets 
The Hurricane (R) OPEN CAPTION 
4:45 P.:vl. on Tue 3128 &Wed 3/29 On!)! 
Final Destination (R) Digital [2:(X)l 4:00 7: 10 9;30 [2:30 5:05 7::15 10:()() 
Cider House Rules (PG-13) Di_gital rl:(XJ] N5 6:40 9:25 The Whole Nine Yards tR) Digital [2:20] *5:40 8: 15 10:15 
* No Slmw Tne 3/28 & Wed 3129' 
Mi.,sion To Mars (PG) 
Digital [1:15] 4:1) 6:55 9:40 The Ninth Gate (R) Digital [1:30] 4;30 *7:20 10:25 
•No Show Sat. 3/25! 'The NextBestThing (PG-13) Digital 9:10 
American Beauty (R) Digital [1:40] 4:40 7·15 10:05 
ONLy $1 00 All Shows BefOl'e 6 pm
• Everyone• Everyday $1.50 All Evening Shows ,;f 6. 
Sleepy Hollow (R) [ I :40] 4:30 7:20 9:4() 
The Talented Mr. Riple (R) 
[l:(Xl] 4:-1-0 8:10 
l!Sn't She Great (R) 
[ I :30] 4·50 7:30 ()::,() 

LAST CHANCE  FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE  
TO SIGN UP  SATURDAY AND SUNDAY  
12pm ­2pm  

BECAUSETHEREII/VIBEAIIIVIVITTlPLAT 

Botta Trading, L.L.C. 
has current openings in: 
• ON-FLOOR OPTIONS TRADING • 
OFF-FLOOR TRADING IN EUROPE 
TRADING TECHNOLOGY/ SOFTWARE ENGINEERING 

Botta Trading, L.L.C. is a major market maker of index and stock options with floor trading operations at the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the Pacific Stock Exchange in San Francisco, the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) in New York, and the Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Botta also conducts electronic screen-based trading on German and Swiss equities traded on the EUREX from our Frankfurt office. With over 60 market makers, Botta provides significant market liquidity in exchange-traded options on approximately 500 stocks and indexes. 
Botta does not require its candidates to have a prior background in economic or financial matters. Instead, we carefully seek individuals who have demonstrated strong leadership abilities and who display a keen ability to work with confidence and discipline in a highly competitive, fast-paced environment. Botta has an extensive internship program and welcomes underclassmen to attend its information session. Botta representatives will be discussing and answering questions regarding employment in both trading and technology-related positions for all of our locations. For additional information, please visit Botta's web site at www.bottatrading.com. 
Visit us at the University of Notre Dame 
Arts & Letters Job/Internship Fair March 24, 2000 10am -4pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Botta Trading, L.L.C. 
Chicago New York San Francisco Frankfurt Amsterdam 

Pridar, March 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
BASEBALL 
Heilman, Cavey lead Irish in Big East season opener 
By NOAH AMST ADTER Sports Wrtter 
Following a dominating 10­
victory ov~r Dntroit \VPdtwsdav. tlw Irish baseball team bPgi~s this season's Big East play as they travel to l'hiladPlphia to take on Villanova. 
'.\Jotrc Dame. whose irnpres-
CIN[M .\l~K JHF.All~ES 

All Sh,iw:-. Bdurc 6 PM $.\.Oil :\iJ 01:I Stmkn1:,;/('h1hlre111Si:-nrn,)o .\(1.~fl Atlult 
Sl~l\'il St11Tt~unO Sornu.l in all Tlw,ur~s 
American Beauty R 
1·'.30 4 15 7:10 9·50 
Orowning Mona PG-13 
12 45-:l.00 5. 15 7"35 10:05 
Erin BrockovlcK R 
1·OO 3•50 7 10 10:00 
Fi11$1 Destination A SS-New 12 so 3, 10 5.20 1,so mIs Her• On Earth PG-13 SS-New 
l2:55 '.l15 5·'.35 8.00 10::20 
Mission To M~rs PG 
1:15 4.05 7·15 10:00 
My Dog S~ip PG 1·05 320 5-35 7'5 955 Ninth Gat,;, A ss~N•w 
H)O 3 55 7 00 10-10 
Pitch !:)leek R 705 950 Rom.o M-.ist Die A SS•N•w 
1·3S 4 20 7·20 10· IO 
Snow Dey PG 
110 3'25 
The Next Best Thing PG13 1 20 -4 ,o The Tigger Movie G 12:55 2.50 4:45 
The Whole Nine Yards A 
12 45 3-05 5·30 7·55 10:20 Three Strik&S R 7,30 9:40 Whatever tt Takes PG·13 SS-New 12.50 305 5·25 7:40 10:05 Wonder Boys R 
7:15 9:55 
roo,m lll,IIS Olin ,OUR O.:.T l!W.:NCE UCIEI Slits i.N01Ci1J> 1.CCE:15111.1 fNO PAIIB • NO SU,ru/.\115 
sivc 13-3 record has earned th<' team a No. 24 ranking by Collegiate Bas!"ball, i'> coming off of its best start sinr,f! the 
1963 tr.am openfld the season 15-3. Thny will attempt to surpass that record in three games against a Villanova team that finished last season 27-26-1 and tied fur seventh place in the Big East. 
The Irish lead the all-time series against their conl'er­nnce opponP.nt: winning eight of the 10 contests between the clubs. Last season. the Irish swept a doubleheader over tlrn Wildc:ats. winning 4­0 in the l'irst game and 10-8 in the sewnd. 
Head coach Paul Mainieri !'eels strong heading into the opening games of conf'erencc play. 
"Our pitr.hing has been strong all season." he said. "And during our last few games the offense has really began to perform. I couldn't be happier with our team right now." 
The Irish will send their top thrne pitr.hf'rs out against the Wildcats. For Saturday's dou­blr.hcrn.der. junior co-captain Aaron lleilman and senior Scott Cavev take the mound for Notre hame. Freshman right-hander Matt Laird throws thB finale on Sunday afternoon. lleilman has yet to viBld a run in 10.2 i:areer innings against the Wildcats. I-le has silenced the Villanova bats to the tune of 13 strike­outs and no walks while col­lecting one win and one save. 
CavPy. a senior leader fin­ishing off a stellar career, has dominated in winning all thnw of his starts this season. The right-hander was forc:ed to miss his last scheduled start in Florida after being hit by a line drive. He is, howev­er, expected to return at full­strength on Saturday. 
Laird has filled a gaping void in the I.rish rotation this season. Hec:ording a 1-0 rncord to go along with a 1.98 EHA. Laird has solidif'ied thi> rotation behind studs Heilman and Cavey. 
The offense has been pow­ered by freshman Brian Staviskv. whose four home runs an·d .638 slugging per­centage lead the team. 
'Tm feeling really r.omfort­able aL the plate right now," Stavisky said, "The coaches have really been helping me a lot." 
Sophomore r.enter fielder Steve Stanley has been pro­ductive while batting in the second spot for thf' Irish. I-ff' leads the team with seven steals in eleven attempts to go along with his .407 batting average. 
Villanova is led by junior second baseman Matt Longo. who was named a first team all-Big East selection last sea­son and is rated by Baseball America as the 105th best prospect among draft-eligible college players. First base­man Rob Cafiero's .361 sea­son an d 1 0 ho me ru n s las t season earned him a spot on the Big East all-rookie team. 
Play begins at 12 noon on both Saturday and Sunday. 



• 
AIJC NEWS NIGII1'LINE 

• 
BLOOMBERG FINANCIAL MARKETS 

• 
JJUCK CONSULTANTS 

• 
COX AUTOMATION SYSTEM 

• 
ENTERPRISE RENT-A-CAR 

• 
JOVllNAl., AND COVIUER (GANNETT) 

• 
MEIJEJ'C. STOIIBS 


• 
PROFUND SYSTEMS, LLC 


Attend and Register at the Job/Internship Fair! 
• 
You could Win a 19" Color TV! 

• 
Find Jobs and Internships 

• 
Use "GO IRISH" (www.nd.edu/-ndcps/) to: 

• 
Obtain list of employers attending the Fair 

• 
Research companies and various industries 




• 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 

• 
BOTTA TRADING, LLC 

• 
CAMPUS VIBE.COM 

• 
EASTER SEALS -WISCONSIN 

• 
ESPN 


• 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL SEllVICES 

• 
PFIZEl'C.-STEERE PHARMACEUTICALS 


Job and lntership Fair: Friday, March 2"4th 
10:00 a,.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Ballroom -LaFortune Student Center 
For btlore Infonnation Contact: 
~ 

The Career Center, Flanner Hall 631-5200 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 24, 2000 
Chorney 
continued from page 36 
that you decide 1.o make Stay in school Murphy. and shun instant fortune and fame Make no mistake vou should r.ome back · to good ol'Notre Dame. 
Dear Mr. lvlurphy. 

Players of your raliber are rare. especially at schools when~ football mediocritv often out­ranks basketball iuccess. It's bPen a pleasurn for wn who had to endure the MacLeod vears to watch you play and retti'rn respect to a basketball program that sorely lacked it only two years ago. 
As adept as your skill is though, it's the almost childlike love for the game that you dis­play on the court that makes you enjoyable to watch. You capture the spirit of college basketball. 
I know that you've never explicitly said that you're consid­ering leaving us for the NBA after this season. but you have commented that it's not out of the question. I sincernly hope that you rid yourst>lf of any con­sideration for your teammates, your fans, your school, the thou­sands of Domer kids that hope to be Troy Murphy some day and for Troy Murphy. Stay for your­self. You're one of the best play­ers in the entire r.ountry right now. You 're a front-runrnff for next year's awards. You poten­tially can af'hieve what only three players have previously in Big East history, winning player­of-the-year two years in a row. 
You can establish yourself as one of the greats in Big East his­torv. 
/\side from simply personal achievement, you appear to have so much fun playing, a joy that's a rarity in the money-driven NBA. Ask Corey Maggette if he regrets giving up a chance to be the best player at Duke and enjoying March Madness for being a bench player in Orlando and enduring a losing season. 
You can't go back to college. The NBA will be around for years to come. You r,ould cost yourself millions. The rookie salary scale increases in value as your draft position becomes higher. While this year you look to be a mid-first-round pick, next year you could be a high-lottery pick. Thus, the riches of the NBA may be greater the longer you wait. 
You certainly could succeed in the NBA. That doesn't take away the fact. that you simply aren't ready. Another year of college will help you increase your size and strength. preventing oppo­nent<; from brutalizing you on defense. ls it a coincidence that your worst games were against teams that had big, physical post players that could assault you each trip down the court'? 

Learn this lesson in college and still dominate the game or learn it inthc pros and try to shake the disappointment label. Would you rather be Antawn Jamison, who has ber.omc a good player only after struggling for a year, or Tim Duncan who immediately made an impact'? 
Stay for your teammates. You once said that one of the reasons you came here was bocause you and David Graves wanted to build something together. You've begun to do that. But just as an architect doesn't abandon his design in mid-form, you shouldn't abandon your pro­gram. Don't leave your team­mates on the cusp of respectabil­ity. 
Stay for the selection commit­tee that shunned us. Give them no reason to be able to do so next year. Earn some redemp­tion. 
Stay for Ryan Humphrey who waited an entire year to play with you in hopes of alleviating the triple teams you draw. Stay for the Domer basketball fans who can smell the successes tha1 our fathers enjoyed and now want to taste it. 
Stay for Notre Dame. We havfm't had a basketball player 
"My Dad's own 
broker couldn't 
come up with this 
Good a Quote!" 
If You're Worth at least $100,000 Let Us Underwrite and Guarantee Your Future. Consider Owning Preferred Term Life Insurance (low cost) and You Invest the Difference. In South Bend Call 272· 3234. Or, for Our Pre­Recorded Message Call 
1 800 668 9273. 
We survey over 1,500 top rated insurers. Lock in the Lowest Rates for the Next 20 Years. Ironwood Financial Group 

leave early f'or the draft since Adrian Dantly over 25 years ago. That's something that even Duke can't say anymor<'. \Ve take pride in ourselves here !'or doing things the right way. Dlln't opPn the doors f'or future playr,rs to leavr, early. 
Most importantly, stay l'or those kids that bounce in their chairs dreaming of bPin!{ you. I can remember the despair I l'elt after Borket Ismail announced he was leaving early f'or thr, draft.. I urge you not to make anyone feel thn same. Let the Dome continue to gleam brightly for kids, as a symbol of' what should bf). not what always is. 
I know the risk of injury is great. Take out an insurance clause ifyou'rn too worried. Don't let fear make the decision for you. Decide what's best for Troy Murphy next year. And what's best for Troy Murphy is to stay in school. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily lhost, of The Observer. 


RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
While TIAA-CREF 
invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance like this today. 


TIAA-CREF delivers impressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. 
In our equity accounts, for example, we combine active management with enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have two ways to seek out With over $250 billion in assets, we're the world's 
CREF GLOBAL EQUITIES "ACCT. 1  
36.05°10  22.02°10  18.75%  
1YEAR AS OF 12/31/99  5 YEARS ASOF 12/31/99  SINCE INCEPTION 5/1/92  

performance opportunities-helping to make your largest retirement company and the leading choice investments work twice as hard. 


Combine this with our low  on  America's  campuses. If that sounds good  to  
expenses  and  you'll  see  you, consider this number 1 800-842-2776, Call and  
how TIAA-CRE:C stands apart  find out how TIAA-CREF  can  work for you today  
from the competition.  and tomorrow.  

ii 
Ensuring the future 1 800 842-277'6 
for those who shape it.'" 
' -www.tiaa-cref.org 
l.The investment results shown for the CREF variable armu1ty reflect past pefformance and are not indicative of future rates ofretum. Thew returns and the value of the prlnr cipal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shc1res you own may be more or less than the~r originat price upon redemption. Foreign stock markets are subject to additional 
risk~ from changing currency valuE's, interest rates, gm,ernment regulations, and political and economic conditions. 2.TIAA-CREF expen~ are subject to change and are not guaranteed for the future. 3.Source:Morningstar, Inc. 12/31/99,trac:king 279 world stock mutua! funds.TIAA-CREF lndNidual and Institutional Services,lnc. distributes CREF cer­tificates and interests in theTIAA Real Estate Account.Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annuities,mutuai funds and tuition savings agreements. TIM and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co. issue insurance and annuities.TIAA-CREF Trust company, FSB provides trust services.Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose \l'alue and are not bank guaranteed. For more complete information on CREF, including charges and expenses, call 1800 842-2776,ext. 5509, for the prospectus. Read it carefulfy before you invest or send money. Cl 2000 TIAA-CREF 1/00. 
Friday, tvlarch 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Buckeyes drop Irish record to 3-2 lVith I 0-9 victory 
Bv SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Wri cer Th<• Ohio Statr Buckeyns 
handed women's lacrosse their son, after starting oJ'f at 3-0 srcond consrcutivr defoat brforn suffrring a defrat at the Thursday, sliding past Notre bands of No. 16 Syracuse Dame 10-9. University. 
Th<' Irish fall lo 3-2 on the sra-Thn Trish matched the Buckeyes in scoring during the first half 4-4. After pulling ahrad 9-7 in the second half, the Buckeyes held tlrn Irish scoreless for the rnmainder of the game. The Buckeves then scored 3 goals in a row to take the lead for good. Ohio State's Laurnn Cochran scored the winning goal in the close match with just over a minute remaining in the game. 

Team co-captain Lael O'Shaughnessy continued to lead hnr team, s(:oring twi<:e in the matrh. With lwr talliPS against Ohio State, o·shaugh-Notre Dame 
n e s s y vs. Ohio State 
increased her season Buckeyes 10 Lo taI to 12 Irish 9 goals and 3 assists in just five games. She finished with 50 goals and 19 assists last season, and her total or 69 points made her the team's lrading scorer. Sophomore Natalie Loftus also scored twice for the Irish, con­tinuing her aggressiv<' play against the Buckeyes from the l 999 season. Loftus also scored in Notre Dame's home loss to Ohio State. Co-captain Kathryn Perrella, Tina Fedarcyk, Angela Dixon, and Danielle Shearer a.lso tallied for the Irish. Perrella., Kelly Mccardell, and Anne Rilev each notched an assist against Ohio State. Dixon, Shearer, McCardell, and Riley, all freshmen. and 
members of a class that is mak­ing its presrnce at Notre Dame known. Shearer leads the fresh­men laxers with 7 goals and 5 assists. 
Ohio State outshot Notre Dame 44-31, but the Irish took control of thri draws, taking 14 out of 
21. Irish goalie Tara Durkin made 19 saves. improving her save percentage to .612. Megan Barnett had 9 saves for tbe 8ur'.keyes. 
\lotre Dame returns to act.ion wilh an away gamP against Johns Hopkins on Saturday, March 25 at 7:00 p.m. This will be the first ever mPeting between the two teams. 
The Blue Jays enter Saturday's game with a 4-2 record, after a smashing 16-6 victory against Stanford March 22. 
The Johns Hopkins women's lacrosse team is led by sopho­more Jamie Larrimore, ,vho has 23 goals and 5 assists so far this seasun. She finished t.he 1999 season with 48 goals and 10 assistb. 
Sara Love is the starting goalie for the Blue Jays. The senior has posted a .515 save percentage and a 9.55 GAA in 308 minutes of play. 
The Blue Jays are coached by Janine Tucker, who has headed the Johns Hopkins program since 1993. In her seven-year tenure as head coach, Tucker has posted 82 wins against 22 losses. 
Do you know how to write? Do you love sports? Observer Sports could be your career opportunity. Call Kerry at 1-4543. 
page .32 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 24, 2000 
SOFTBALL 
Home opener yields split decision for ND 
Bv RACHEL PROTZMAN 
Sports W'rirer 
Notre name softball kick1~d nff its home season with a split der,ision against the Purdue Roilf'rmakers. 
T h e Notre Dame 

Irish. I\Jo. 22 ir1 tlH3 vs. Purdue 
National Game 1: Fastpitch Coaches Irish 8, 
A s s o r -Boilermakers 0 i at ion 
Game 2:

Di vi.'iion I p o l I . Boilermakers 2. entered 
Irish 1 

the gamr ,\·ith 1-5 all-timP mark against the Boiler-makers with their only \Yin coming in a split deci­sion last year. Notrr; Dame. now 19-7. was victorious in game one as il shut dovvn Purdue 8-0 in just six innings. 
Srnreless going into the sec­ond inning, :\Jotre Dame was quick to grab tlrn lead. Sophomore Jarrah Myers start­ed thP frish with a single before freshman Andria Bledsoe belted a single to right field. Lizzy Lemire hit a hard single to left field to drive in two runs for the Irish before sroring herself on a single by pitcher Jennifer Sharron. Junior 'vlelanie Alkire grabbed a doubk to knock in three runs to end the Irish rally. The Boilermakers had a scoring opportunity in the fourth with one out and runners on second 
and third, but Sharron was ablA 
to strike out two batters to qunll 
the rnllv. 
In th·e bottom or the sixth Bledsoe got on base by way of a lfoilPrmaker error before advancing to third on a double by Lemire. With two strikes, jt;nior Dcmirlle Klavrnan singled to drive in thr run and Pnd the game early. Notre Dame was not so lucky in game two action as it tell to Purdue 2-1. 
"You come out and vou win big the first game and _go into a second game complacnnt and that's v.hat happt'.llS, you g<~t beat." said Irish head ,·oach Liz 'vliller. 
The Irish grnbbed an Party IPad as sophomore Jennil'nr Krierh singlPd before iworing on a series of sarrilires. But it was not enough to k1\ep t.hc Boi!Prmakers f'rom rallying in the second inning. PurduP racked up three hits while sccw­ing two runs and the lPrtd. 
Notrn Dame had another opportunity lo scon: in the sixth. but was unablP to execute. Kriech slammed a doublP into deep center before advancing to third, but was left stranded.·· 
"I thought we were aggressive in the first game. l did not think we swung the bat aggressively in the second game at all," Miller said. "We just made con­tact; we just didn't come out and swing hard. We just thought r that game two started where game one left off and it doesn't work like that." 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation · 


ANSWER~ 
THECALL '<!::,/ 


Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 

Chemistry Engineering Materials Science Human Resources Environmental Science Business, Finance, &Accounting Information &Process Control Technology 
The Observer: Your source for 
Tlie Norne Dame Music Depa,nmenr pResenrs 
N01Xe Dame Glee CLUB 
Sp~~~t~~!SeTff 
WORks BJ ]OSQ.Uin, Isaac, Srnauss, ano PenoeReck1; 
FoLk sonqs ano sprn..nuaLs 
Tbu1tsoay & F1tzoay, MaKcb 23 & 24, 2000 8 pm, Wasbzn(JTOn Hall 
The conwus aRe FRee ano open TO rhe puhL1c. 
FOR mo11.e lnfORmarwn, call 631-6201 OR VISIT www.no.eou/~mus1c. 

Friday, March 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish going to Carolina to take on UNC, No. 5 Duke 
Ry RACHEL BIBER Sports Writer 
Wlrnn the upclaled rankings wPrc released bv tho l11t1•rcollegiatc ·Tennis Association this week. the Irish rrnrn's tirnnis team recognized tlw diflkult task ahead of them. The numbers arP not scaring them away from the challenge. 
No. 23 Notre Dame heads to the East this weekend to take on No. 28 North Carolina on Saturday and No. 5 Duke on Sundav. 
"lt's·obviously a big weekend for us," Irish head coach Bob Bayliss said. "[North Carolina and Duke! are formidable oppo­nents but it's not a chall<~nge we are afraid of taking on. We are excited and ready to go." The Irish hope to extinguish the recent hot streak of the North Carolina Tar Heels -a team that leaped from No. 44 to ~o. 28 in the recent rankings. The Tar Jfoels won two big matches last week. ovflr South Carolina and Florida State, to improve to 8-2 overall and 1-0 in the ACC. Depth seems to bo an asset foi· tlrn Tar Hm~ls, and the Irish will look to counter that strength by continuing their strong doubles play and by taking advantage of the opportunities for wins in the top part of the lineup. "We arc playing very good doubles right 

now," Bayliss said. ''I'd like to think that is ber.oming a strength for us." 
Notre Dame also made a remarkable jump in the latest rankings due to a strong showing at last week's Blue-Gray National Classic in Montgomery, Alabama, where it posted big wins over Virginia and UAB. The 9-5 Irish earned a season high ranking of 23 after being slotted at No. 36 last week. The Tar Heels also 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used books bought and sold -25 Categories oi Books -25,000 Hardb.ick Jnd Paperhack books in stock -Out-of-Print search service: $2.00 -Appraisals large and small 
OPEN NOON TO SIX TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 1027 E. WAYNE SOUTH BEND, IN 46618 (219) 232-8444 

feature a strong No. 1 singles underscored by five players player in 4 7th-ranked Tripp ranknd among the top 100 in the Phillips. who recently upended nation, Duke is able to present Florida State's 28th-ranked an ever-changing lineup that Xavier Luscan. Phillips will meet often catches its opponent off­Irish All-American and 10th­guard. ranked Ryan Sachire in the top The Blue Devils 18th-ranked match. Ramsey Smith, son of United 
After the Irish face-off against States tennis great Stan Smith, the Tar Heels they will look to 42nd-ranked Doug Root, and 
continue their  51st-rankfid  
winning ways in Duke territo­ "ft's obviously a big  Andrew Pedroso have  
ry.  weekend for us. "  shuffled  in  
The Irish and  and out of the  
Blue Devils will meet for the 14th time in a  Bob Bayliss Notre Dame tennis coach  top singles position throughout  

series Duke leads 9-4, but Notre Dame has won two of the last three meetings overall and two of the last three matches at Duke. The Irish posted 4-3 wins at Duke when the Blue Devils were ranked fourth in 1994 and 1:~th in 1998. Notre Dame also won a 4-3 match over eighth­ranked Duke at home in 1997. Duke comes into the weekend's compelilion after suffering a string of losses to now eighth­ranked Baylor, top ranked UCLA, and fourth ranked 
Pepperdine, dropping to 9-4 on the season. The Blue Devils have not been defeated three straight times since the 1993-94 season. 
With a singles squad that .is 
the season. 

The Irish squad will most likely have all their weapons intact as they hit the road for the uprnming com­petition. Aaron Talarico, who has been pestered by an ankle injury, has been cleared to play after fear that his pains were a result of a stress fracture. Talarico will definitely appear with doubles partner Javier Taborga to form the No. 1 Irish duo in doubles. but Brian Farrell will be ready to fill in if Bayliss decides to pull Talarico from the singles lineup. 
In the end, the rankings are mflaningless and the intensity and quality of' play of the Irish will be the deciding factor in determining the wins and losses. 
AsiaV\ AmeJl'-icaV\ AssociatioV\ P~eseV\ts... 
Dco'\ce of the Dra9oi,-\ 
AV\ JV\clusive DaV\ce Pal"-iy Sa+v\rday1 March 25th 
$5 PeJI'-Covtple FR66 FOOD & R6FR6St-lM6NT 

r 
' 
t 
page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 24, 2000 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Team splits up, heads to Arizona, Stanford, Purdue 
at the Mt. Sac Invitational was She is also one of' tlw l<'am's Junior Cross Country champion, woman to clmt!' thn 6 foot barri­By BRIAN BURKE the team's best. strnngcr sprinters. run the best time in the 3,000 er last year with hr,r 6-0 3/4 Spnrrs Wmer West. who also was an All­.Junior Byan Shay and sopho­meter st,iepler.hase last vnar for leap at th<-1 Mt. SAC Invitational. 
American for the Irish in the more Lukr Watson am among the Irish with a time of 8·:5h.70. Meanwhilo much of tho Irish 
The NotrP Dame men's and indoor long jump in 1999, will the top men's distance runners Senior high jumper Jennifer track and 11eld squads will be women's track teams \'\ ill look join Cochran. Tom Gilbert and competing at the Stanford Engrlhardy will lead the starting oft' the season at tlrn to get tlw ouLdoor spason off Lo Travis Davey on the 4x100 Invitational. Shay earned All­women's squad that is trekking Purdue Invitational. a strong start this weektmd with meter relay team that begins American honors last year with lo Sianf'ord. A two-time All "This is an opportunity for a split squads traveling to the the season with high hopes. a seventh-plare finish in thr American and Big East champi­lot of' the runners to got ready Arizona State Invitational on "Our 4x100 team is looking lo 10,000 meter contest at the on in the outdoor high jump in for thr scoring mret we have Fridav and Saturdav. and the establish a standard. We plan NCAI\ championships. 1998 and 1999, Engelhardt here Iat Notrp Dame] next Stanford Invitational and on going after the !school] Watson, th<' 19')9 World became thn f'irst Notrr Dame werk," Piane said. Purdue Invilational on record this year," said West. Saturdav. West was the Big East's most 
"Some: kids have a legitimatf' outstanding track performer sho l at I q ualil'ying for l the last year, winning the 200 at NCAA ·s. so this gives us the the Big East outdoor r.hampi­opportunity to get some good onsl1ips with a time of 21. Hi 
HOMES FOR RENT 
r.arly season times," head coach s1cconds. Jof' Piane said. "I personally want lo get back The Arizona on track in 
2000 -2001 SCHOOL YEAR 
State Invitational "Some kids have a tho long will feature some legitimate shot at jll~P.: ' h/'
of the top sprint­said l hnrc s 
NS and middle [qualifying for] the a lot ol' good 
-Domus Properties has three, four, five, distuncl' runners NCM's, so th;s gives us competition 
and eight bedroom houses available 
for lhr Fightin){ thP opportunity to get Iat Arizona Irish. inducting State! and it's -Student neighborhoods close to
some good early season
srniors Chris gDod we lrnd C:ochra.n. Phil times." the week of'l' campus Mishka, and to gl't people 
-Security systems provided 
Marshaun WesL healthy."
Joe Piane
for thf' men N o t r <1 -Well maintained homes 
head track coach
Cochran and Dame's super 
Mishka are parl sopho111ore -Maintenance staff on call of the distance med!ev relav Liz Grow will lead the women team that placed sixth. at the sprinters at Arizona Stale. Grow 
NCAA indoor championships ran the 100, 200, and 400 last week with a time of meter races during last fear's 
9:38.82. I\Jotre Dame's highest outdoor season, notching sPven finish since 1968. Cochran, an first place finishes and earning 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year 
all-ronference. performer. won All Big East honors. thC' 400 meter rarP at tfrn Big Freshman Tameisha King also East outdoor r.hampionships figures to contribute. King 
BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT
last vPar with a tinw of 46.86. comes off a first place perfor­
M{shka finished second in the mance in tho long jump at tlw 800-metf'r Big East champi­Alex Wilson Invitational, with a Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 onships. His 1:48.94 in thP 800 Meyo Field record of 20-I 1/2. 

from Saturday Night Livel 
Saturday, March 25th, 8 pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium $2 for students 
$3 for non-students 
(pay at the door) 

e wvvw.nd.edu/.sub 


Friday, March 24, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 35 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 29 They can be 52 It's inflatable 
FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 2000 
1 Bahraini V.I.P.'s: fertilized 53 Sanford and Var. -30 Annoyances son 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS interludes. It's time to make the DAY: Steve McQueen, Kelly changes that will lead to your happi­
7 Kind of 31 Back in 56 Make 50-Across 
LeBrock, Bob Mackie, Patti Labelle, ness. 00 
atmosphere 33 Chicago suburb 57 Turn off David Suzuki, Lee Oskar, Vince VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A 14 They may be completely Jones, Robert Carradine female member of your family may given test runs 36 "Homage to Happy Birthday: Your unique not be easy to deal with. Be compas­
Sextus 59 Lead statistic 
approach to everything you do will sionate and listen to her plea for
16 Creator of a Propertius," e.g. 61 Rapprochement certainly attract a lot of interest this help. You can find solutions if youbear market? 38 Good ranch year. Let your ideas flow freely, and put yourself in her shoes. 0000 17 Dorothy Parker stock? you will get a helping hand whenev­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Social
62 Dash 63 Woman of the er you need one. You have the activities will result in newfoundhad one 41 Sitar 
future? courage and stamina to do your own friends and possible potential mates. 
18 Man, for one accompaniment 
thing regardless of what anyone Be careful not to exceed your budget. 
64 Did a bank job? 
thinks. Because of this, you will Don't let co-workers know too much become a leader in your field. Your about your personal life. 000 
19 Go for the 44 "Man in Revolt" 
bronze? author Brunner 
numbers: 3, 29, 32, 35, 40, 44 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):20 Made one 45 Women's org. DOWN ARIES (March 21-April 19): Min­Recognition can be yours if you pre­22 Hair stylist's since 1890 1 1997 New York gle with those in high positions. You sent your ideas and objectives to can express your opinions and your boss. Don't let family members 
challenge 47 Xenocrates' City mayoral 
receive help from your peers. Your put you down. Jealousy may be an
23 Jim Davis's dog mentor candidate 
popularity is growing, but you must issue. Exaggeration may cause upset.2 Focus of a bull use discrimination when picking 000
25 They're used to 49 2-Down's fashion models accessory session? your friends. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 21): Your emotions will be unstable if
26 Dog command 50 Irish export 3 Comb rubber 
Older members of your family may you haven't been completely honest 27 "Uh-uh!" 51 Dying words 4 East extension be demanding today. Take care of with your partner. Clear the air their problems quickly and get on with before you jeopardize the relation­
5 Brand name 
your own business. Don't overspend ship. 000 ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE on renovations or redecorating. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
with an accent on it 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't Rewards or gifts for your past good AB 6Wow Puzzle by Elizabeth C. Gorski let your partner make you feel that deeds will lielp you get through a 24 One of the 42 Grating pattern 53 Busy time for you have done something wrong. difficult period. Take care of any7 DuPont has one Stand up for your rights and speak legal matters hanging over your
Costanzas, on 43 Executive's ministers 
your mind. After all, you' re entitled head.0000
8 Leporine 

"Seinfeld" burden 
54 Roster abbr. 

to your own opinion. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
leapers 

26 Fall apart 46 Plot differently 55 Zero CANCER (June 21-July 22): Stabilization of important relation­9 During Career limitations may set you back. ships will enhance your reputation
28 Soup pasta 48 In the minority 58 E.U. country 
Losses are evident if you get and position in society. Overindul­
10 Fringe 

32 Mouth: Prefix 50 Commits a 60 Dallas player, involved in joint financial ventures. gence must be curbed. Make sure 11 Cosmopolitan 34 Bon deadly sin briefly Someone you work with may try to you don't have dubious ulterior competitor dump his or her responsibilities on motives.00 35 Great deal you.00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
12 Lays away 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Re-evalu­Avoid idle chatter today. Gossip will
37 Some
13 Like the divers' ate your present situation. Self­only make you look bad in the eyes 
are available by touch-tone phone:

movements
end of the pool awareness will be necessary. Social of your boss. Others may twist your 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

38 Breaks away activity will lead to romantic words to their liking. 00000
15 Watch word 
Annual subscriptions are available for the ADD E f-=-+=+-=+::-:+:-+-:=+,:-f 21 Sugar or flour 39 Picture best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 Birth~ay Baby: You are dedicated, creative and true to yourself. You will S purchase 40 Zinger, maybe years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
accomplish what you set out to do and will have no trouble sticking to your initiatives. You will set your own pace and follow your own dreams. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) © 2(00 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
T (11.N.T t3HIE\IE \T ! 
-:I WANlf-1) l"O ill,¥,.£ fl. 
SHOl-tT N~P SO 1'. 51,1" MY >M,RM FoR SEVEN ,No TttE 
'irllN(;, t\JfllEK WENT oFF 
Fox TROT 
TOM KEELEY 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
OC,i<., '<'OV ~>,\JE 11" 5€.T 10 00 Off ti., St:\JEN ' u. i0/-1.CR _ _,,_,. /i/T/fE 
BILL AMEND 

OZo»8111~-"'~r41$11Pres:tSJl'ldiCll8 
www.1ox1rot.com 
YOU MIGHT YOU'D THINK WA,r,IT To PICIC lllON MAN 
UP YOUR PACE WOULD 


beam. 1 @nd.edu 



Headin' South 
The Irish men's tennis team heads lo North Carolina this treekend tu take on lhe No. 5 Duke BIile Del!ils.
PORTS 
page 28 
O
THE 

page 36 BSERVER Friday, March 24, 2000 
=======================:=-:==================-~=---=-=-=-=-=-=--=========-====================================================================== 
ON THE Hor CORNER 
Stay with us Troy Murphy 
By BRIAN CHURNEY Spom Writer 
Dun't leave f\lurph SomPWhPre David Haugh is laughing .-\nd somewht1rc anLi-lrish 
fans shout ButtherP ~ 
is litlle joy · · · 
at NotrP •,::,·· ,::::,. 
Damp 
hir the Irish wrre left out 
Rather than just Churney pick the team whose credentials were the best 

Thev chose a tearri that beat Princ~ton. but was in the Mountain West 
So Cinderella's left at home. no Invite to the Dance But fear not. Darners. next vear is another chance 
• Don't wallow in your sorrow. Don't shed a single tear 
Just dream of Murphy, Graves, and Humphrey and what may be next year 
Of course before next year begins there's a battle to be fought 
Will Murphy leave and go pro -or will he stay, as he ought? So here's a little letter, some advice I hope you'll take About the choice fans all hope 
see CHURNEY/page 30 

NCAA FENCING CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Day one finishes with women third 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Spam Writer 
PALO ALTO, Calif. 
After finishing tlrn day with a (,-8 record. frnshman Ppeebt Meagan Call was a. bit down at the :WOO NCAA Fencing Championships. 
Then slrn found out thi! Jrish were still in third placfl after tho first day of compe­tition. lier mrlanrholy looks 
· quickly turned into a smile. 
"\Ve can definitely make a run Iat first. place in thr last three days of competition." shf: said. "!-oil will kick somP butt tomorrow and women's sabre will do well. Anna !Carnirkl and I can will definitely step up !in epee]." 
Cali's change in attitude mirrored the fate of the Irish. Thursday. Featuring four freshmen and a junior qualifying for the first time, the Irish started slowly. Natalia Mazur and Carianne McCullough won just 13 bouts while Call and Carnick combined for just 13 wins as well. With just 26 points and defending national champi­on Penn State pulling away. the Irish languished in fourth. 
"I fenced really bad," said Mazur who went 7-7 on the day. "1 wasn't aggressive enough. I was kind of tired and my mind just wasn't into it." 
While Mazur's, Cali's and McCullough's near .500 records were disappointing, 
see FENCING/page 23 

GOLF 

Ratay, Irish prepare to usher in 'golden age' of golf 
of talent coupled with thr, four fall events yielding an scrutiny, the Irish did just has him ranked 32nd among
By KEVIN BERCHOU 

anticipated opening of the unprecedented national rank­that. After tying for first in the all NCAA golfers.Sports Writer 
championship caliber Warren ing is led by seniors Jeff Legends of Indiana "I think the program has Golf Course poses the chance Connell and Todd Vernon. Intercollegiate and winning really moved up in the last 3 
Steve Ratay is well aware of for the Irish to thrust them­both of whom played brilliant­the Louisville to 4 years," Hatay noted. the opportunity that lies selves into national promi­ly during the fall. Vernon Intercollegiate, Notre Dame "We're starting to make a before him. Every drive ripped nence. boasts the second lowest scor­showed that after years of name for ourselves. Winning down the center of the fairway ing average in Irish history futility it may will do that for you." is playr,d with purpose. Every (7548), and his 66, scored inderd be on the threshold
Falling out of nowhere 
putt is sunk with a singular earlier in the season. repre­of greatness.
Almost out of nowhere, thr Ending the wait
goal .in mind. Every year since sents the best round by an While the success of the
Irish scored the best fall cam­After playing so well in the
1966. the Irish havr been left lrish golfer in 37 years. team was surprising, the indi­
paign in school history, post­fall, Notre Dame rnturns to
out in the cold during the In opening the fall slate vidual play of Ratay was even
ing an aggregate team score a spring action with a NCAA
NCAA Tournament. If Notre with a win in the 24-leam Air more so. Not even considered
full seven strokes lower than birth very much in reach.
Dame's sophomore sensation Force Invitational, Notre a lock to make the squad's
last year's team record total. Currently ranked fourth in the
has it his way, this year will name stunned the NCAA golf­starting five at the year's
"Everyone contributed," region, the Irish will be keep­
be different. ing community and raised onset. Hatay grabbed the spot­
noted Ratay. •·we had every­ing one eye on those rankings.
Ratay wants to help usher in expectations for the rest of the light with a win in the individ­
one play well. We all wanted knowing full well that the top
the "golden age" of Notre campaign. ual competition in the Legends
to win." six qualify for the NCAAs.
Dame golf, and he sees no bet• Well aware that to gain of Indiana Intercollegiate.
The squad that captured !lopes of the squad making its 
ter time than the present to do national recognition, a team That win. along with his
three first place finishes in 
so. An awesome compilation must play well under clos1; strong play over the summer. see GOLF/page 27 
Baseball at Johns Hopkins Fencing at NCAA w NCAA Mideast regionals at Villanova Championships,
SamrJay, 7 p.m. vs. Texas Tech 
~ ;,
Saturday, noon March 23-26 
Saturday, I :30 p.rn. 

SPORTS • •
ATA tie l
NIT semifinals Softball at North Carolina Lacrosse vs. Hofstra
M} 
vs. Penn Stare vs. Purdue Tournament 
"t;,,,;__ Saturday, I p.m. Sunday, I p.m. 
Tuesday, 9 p.m. Saturday-Sunday
GLANCE • 


