
Playoff action 
Entrance denied 
The Oakland A's took an early lead in their 
Debate officials turned away Ralph Nader, 

Wednesday
playoffseries against the New York Yankees. 
while activists blocked the entrance to 
GOP headquarters.
Sports . page 18 
OCTOBER 4, 
News . page 6 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 32 . HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Mother recalls son's fatal 21st birthday celebration 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY News Edicor 

American college students do not take the danger of alcohol abuse seriously enough and repeatedly put themselves at serio_us risk. said Cindy McCue Tuesday. McCue's son Bradley died on Nov. 5, 1998, after drinking 24 shots to celebrate his 2 Ist birthday. After his death, she and other family members founded an organization called "Be Responsible About Drinking," also known as 
means you've had something to drink, you're tired and you fall asleep." 
When Bradley passed out. his friends did not recognize the serious nature of his condition and did not seek medical help, explained McCue. 
"They didn't understand that even though he had passed out, the alcohol still in his stomach was continuing to increase his b.loo<l alcohol," she said. After checking on him for an hour. they put him to bed. lie died .two hours later from alcohol poisoning. 

BRAD, which seeks to educate 

"[Alcohol] demands that
parents and students about the dangers of excessive you make educated, drinking. responsible choices 
"Alcohol is a drug. It's a 

for yourself"
legal drug," she said. "It demands that vou make edu­cated, responsible choices for Cindy Mccue yourself'." 
activist 

Alcohol causes a series of physiological effects based on the number and types of drinks ingested. Early effects range from a loss in decision-making ability to exaggerated emotions to poor coordi­nation each time a person abuses alcohol. If a person continues drinking, he or she may suf­l'cr from alcohol poisoning, which results in a loss of consciousness and, in some cases, death. McCue emphasized that once a person loses consciousness from alcohol poisoning, that person is in serious danger and needs help. 
"Passing out and sleeping it off are not the same thing," she said. "Passing out means your body is shutting down. Sleeping it off 
Instead of being-left alone, people who appear to fall asleep after consuming large amounts of alcohol should be awakened repeatedly, said McCue. If the person cannot be awakened, one should seek emergency help imme­diately. Other warning signs of alcohol pois,oning include cold, clammy or blue skin or a breathing rate of' less 
than12 breaths per minute. A heart rate or 50 or fewer beats per minute. down from the nor­mal range of 70 to 80, also indicates that the body is shutting down. McCue explained. 
There is also a danger of asphyxiation while intoxicated because muscular reflexes respon­sible for vomiting are depressed by alcohol, resulting in incomplete ejection of stomach contents. This may cause liquid or food to enter the lungs. 
"Lay them on their side and prop them up so that if they do vomit, the gravity can help," 
see SHOTS/page 4 
CAMPAIGN 2000 


Gore, Bush clash over social security, taxes 
Associated Press 
-BOSTON 
Al Gore and George Bush clashed over tax cuts Tuesday night in campaign debate, the Texas gover­
nor declaring See Also that all tax-
p  a  y  e  r  s  "Wheelchairs  
deserve  a  block GOP  
break  in  a  
time of bud- entrance"  
get surpluses,  page 6  
and the vice  
president  

saying he wanted to target mid­dle class families for relief. 
In the opening moments of their first debate of the fall cam­paign, Gore said Bush's plan would "spend more money on tax cuts for the wealthiest one percent than all of the new spending he proposes for educa­tion. health care, prescription drugs and national defense all combined. I think those are the wrong priorities." 
But Bush, standing a few feet awav on a debate stage, said Gore\ economic plan would lead to "dramatically" bigger govern­ment with 200 "new or expand­ed programs" and 20,000 new bureaucrats. 

"It empowers Washington," added the governor, who has­tened to tell a national viewing audience he was from West Texas -not the nation's capital. 
Gore and Bush met for the first of three presidential debates over the next two weeks, pivot points in a close race for the presidency. Poll after poll has the two men sepa­rated by only a point or two in the battle to succeed President Clinton. Their vice presidential candidates, Democrat Joseph Lieberman and Republican Dick Cheney, debate Thursday in Kentucky. 
Jim Lehrer of PBS was moder­ator, operating under strict rules negotiated in advance by the Gore and Bush camps. It was, he said at the outset, the first of three 90-minute debates between the two men -a for­mat that excluded Ralph Nader and Pat Buchanan, running as 
see DEBATE/page 6 


Malloy foresees budget crunches 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assistant News Editor 

Despite the recent success of fundraising efforts, Notre Dame could end up in a finan­cial bind one to two years from now, University President Edward Malloy told faculty members Tuesday. 
That announcement, part of his 45-minute annual address to the faculty, was news Malloy called both "inspiring" and "sobering." 
"There's inspiring news about resources. but there's also sobering news about bud­geting problems," Malloy said to a nearly-full DeBartolo Hall auditorium. 
What's promising is that cur­rent figures indicate increased support of fundraisers and rapid growth of' University assets. Perhaps, the most notable of the University's financial achievements is the Generations campaign, which recently surpassed the $1 bil­lion mark. 
''What a sign of confidence in this place. There's not a single Catholic institution that has received this kind of generosi­ty," Maltoy said of the three­and-a-half-year effort that wraps up in December. 
In addition, Malloy said Notre Dame's endowment perfor­mance last year placed it among the nation's best. The endowment currently stands at $3.1 billion, up from $606 mil­lion in 1990. 
The University's internal scholarship fund presently tops $850 million and some 3,000 undergraduate students received $34 million in scholar­ships this year. Annual tuition increases are frozen at a level of five percent, as mandated by the Board of Trustees. 
But the difficulties that possi­bly loom ahead complicate the financial picture and may place the University in a crunch In coming years. 
Most of the concern to the faculty audience concentrated on salary and benefits prob­lems that could spring up as early as next year. Malloy said tight budgeting will mandate a 15 percent increase in health care costs next fall. He also said that paying competitive salaries could present difficul­ties in the near future. 
"It may be hard keeping up with wages and salaries paid at other universities," Malloy said. Facultv and staff salaries and benefits currently account for roughly half of the University's operating budget. 

Officials are also paying close attention to the overall operat­ing budget. The budget more than doubled from $234 billion in 1990 to $535 billion this year. 
Presently, the University is in the process of hiring 150 new faculty members. a goal made possible by funding from the Generations campaign -a move that adds to concerns about for office and laboratory space. 
Malloy expects building ini­tiatives to increase stress on the·operating budget. He said that spending for facilities operations would increase by about $800,000 once the Coleman-Morse and philoso­phy-theology buildings are run­ning next fall, and by $3.5 mil­lion when the Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center opens. 
Other topics addressed: 

. Malloy said there is an "intense demand" for sophisti­cated information technologies on Notre Dame's campus. He called the current resources and facilities "inadequate" and said that he's looking into the matter with representatives in 
see MALLOY/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 





Smoking. 
The word alone irritates me -but not nearly as much as it irritates me to see people partaking in such a nasty habit. My life has been greatly affected by smokers who died of smoking-related illnesses and also people who died ofsmoking­related diseases who were not smokers. My parents Kelly Hager both know how opposed to smoking I am. and yet, the power of addiction still compelled thiim to smoke. Copy Editor 
Even my father, in spite of 
daily harassing from me, 
still continued to smoke at least a pack a day. 
Until one year ago. 
He began smoking at an early age with the doc­
tors believing it had little to no affect on his cur­
rent health. And then one day, it happened. He 
went in for minor outpatient surgery and didn't 
recover from the anesthesia. His elective surgery 
became complicated and was no longer a matter 
of being routine -it was life threatening. My 
father wa.,; in acute respiratory distress and on 
life support. 
I was flown home from college and was met at 
the! hospital by my tearful 16-ycar-old brother. 
Together, we made our way to the hospital, and I 
found out all the details that had remained 
untold to me during the previous week. The story 
unfolded in the car, and ended with the synopsis 
through the ooors of the ICU. This briefing was 
my preparation for what laid ahead. 
llowever, nothing prepared me for the sight of 
my father. Nothing could have. Less than one 
month before. I had seen him laughing and smil­
ing; only two weeks before I had talked to him on 
the phone and told him about my poor study 
habits. Now. there he was, attached to tubes and 
dependent on a respirator. I watched the moni­
tors closely as I held his hands and brushed his 
forehead. Ilow could this be, I thought to myself. 
Why? Why my dad? He had never done anything 
to deserve this. As healthy as he appeared, my 
father was being immobilized by a habit. A habit 
that had grown out of control. A habit that almost 
took his life. 
Many months later, my father has recovered 
but continues to struggle. I am so proud of his 
ability to continue on with life, and more so, his 
ability to discontinue smoking. 
l always thought a life-changing event like this would make people realize how beautiful life was and make them realize how disgusting smoking really is. But even after all this, my mother con­tinues to smoke. And. although she claims she doesn't really inhale, watching her "not inhale" irritates me even more. 
At a young age, people are shown the deadly effect tobacco has on their bodies, but they still find the need to experiment. Harsh reality: kids are trying it at younger ages. On top of that, the legal buying age seems to have no relevance to consumers anymore. Today alone. I witnessed a freshman giving an upperclassman friend money lo purchase cigarettes for her. Later on that evening, I watched another freshman beg a ciga­rette off someone else and attempt to smoke for the first time. 

To those who are thinking oftrying it -don't. Think about the gross taste of kissing a smoker, think about the nasty smell that lingers on the skin of smokers. Think of how smoking affects people's teeth and gums. Now think about what your lungs will look like. 
To those that find themselves smoking more and more consider how much money could be accumulated without the need to spend $3 on a pack of cigarettes. Trust me, it adds up. 
And if you are addicted, please get help soon. Please. Think of how your life may be affected; think of how your life choices may affect your family. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Finn Pressly Amanda Greco 
Kelly Ha.ger Graphics 
Liz Zanoni Karie Annis Sports Production Molly McVoy Kathleen O'Brien Viewpoint Lab Tech Lane Herrington Ernesto Lacayo 

Th, Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday ,hrough Fridty excepr <luring exam .1nd v;:1c.ation periods:. The Observer is a mC"mber ofch~ J\ssocia1~d Press_ All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, October 4, 2000 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Performance: Broadway  . Performance: Broadway  . Concert: Notre Dame  . Event: "Hands -on •  
Theater League presents  Theater League presents  Glee Club; 8 p.m.; Stepan  Internet"; St. Joseph  
''RENT" the musical; 7:30  "RENT" the musical; 7:30  Center, tickets available at  County Public Library; to  
p.m., Morris Performing  p.m.; Morris Performing  LaFortune.  pre-register call 282-4635.  
Arts Center, For tickets  Arts Center; For tickets  . Lecture: "Obsessive­ . Event: "Niles Haunted  
call 245-6085.  call 245-6085.  Compulsive Disorder,"  House"; 8 to 11 p.m.; Dr.  
Victor Tan; 11 :30 a.m.  Frightmare's Phantom  
to 1 p.m.; Madison Center.  Theater.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Campus school uses race as admission factor 
LOS ANGELES Deborah Stipek, director of the 
The U.S. Supreme Court let stand a school was pleased with the court's lower court's ruling Monday that decision. Corinne Seeds University Elementary "The ruling.frees the school to con­School, located on the UCI.A campus. tinue to function as a laboratory, as can continue using race as a factor it was intended lo function," Stipek in admission. said. "The ruling gives our group



UCLA
The lower court ruled i.n Hunter v. control over scientific research." Kegents of University of California The appeal argued against the that because the school has a justifi­affirmative action-style police by able reason for considering race, it saying, "Once the downhill slide has does not violate the rights of stu­started, there is no delineated stop­dents not admitted. ping point until the slide bottoms out 
UCLA's Graduate School of in race-has,id preferences in all sec­Education & Information Science tors of society."
language to create an environment
uses the elementary school to study But Stipek said tho "narrow tai­
that can be studied for its diversity.
racial groups' learning skills and lored ruling," would have "no broad 
The lawsuit was filed by James
recommend new teaching methods. implications."
Hunter after his 4-year-old daugh­
As a "laboratory school," school University of California lawyers
ter Keely Tatsuyo was not admitted
officials consider applicants' ethnici­could not be immediately reached 
to the school in 1995.
ty, sex, family income and dominant for comment. 
CARNEGIE MELLON 

UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
FDA forum discusses illegal drugs
Alumni club grants affinity cards 
PHIIADELPHIA

PITTSBURGH 
Got Viagra? If not, you may be surprised to find that
Students aren't the only ones receiving freebies 
you can purchase it on the Internet with the completion
from credit card companies for signing up for a card. 
of a simple electronic questionnaire. Food and Drug
Carnegie Mellon University's Alumni Association 
Administration Commissioner Jane Henney addressed
established an affinity card program with Maryland 
the online accessibility of prescription drugs and other
Bank of North America in 1993, whereby MBNA was 
public health issues in her lecture entitled "e-Regulation
able to market a card with a CMU identity to the 
and Public Health: FDA in the Information Age" at the
school's 55,000 alumni and 8,000 students. In return, 
University of Pennsylvania on Friday. The seminar, held
Carnegie Mellon's Alumni Association receives royal­
in the Clinical Research Building, was the first in a year­
ties on purchases made by affinity cardholders. ln 
long !-lea.Ith Policy Seminar series, "From e-Commerce to
July 1999, CMU negotiated a five-year contract 
extension with MBNA to continue the affinity card 
e-Healthcare" sponsored by the Leonard Davis Institute 
of Health Economics. On its Web site, the FDA estimates
program. The Alumni Association accepted an 
that there may be as many as 1,000 sites that sell pre­
advance on royalties in addition to the future consid­
scription drugs. Many of these sites are legitimate phar• 
erations. However, terms of such advance were 
macies licensed at the state level, but others offer pre­
undisclosed. "Credit card companies don't want col­
scriptions for FDA-approved drugs without a face-to-face
leges comparing their advances, so they keep that 
physician consultation. Drugs not approved in the United
information confidential," said Jennifer Neubauer, 
States -or anywhere, for that matter -are also avail­
director of Alumni Relations. Carnegie Mellon is not 
able.
alone in connecting with the credit card industry. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day SQJ.th Bax'l Fon!CB.!t: 

A:n.ttatrer ba:ast fer daytirre a:n:litims arrl high tacpa:atJ.Jre, 
\ 
1 

Friday Satur ay 
..............................


Sunday< 

@ 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
I 
Prusw,; 

®© ...... 
High low Showers R¦~n T-atorm• Flurries Snow Jes Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloud

Monday 1~ 

Via 14ssooated Pf'Bt;.S
0vJ'-""-·v/\'-', 


,,,.••• ,,.J 

Atlanta 83 67 Las Vegas 84 60 Portland 56 40 Baltimore 76 51 Memphis 80 62 Seatlle 65 46 Boston 65 56 Milwaukee 55 46 St Louis 71 58 Showers T·storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice · Sunny Pr CIOUCly Cloudy Chicago 61 51 New York 71 61 Tampa 86 76 Via A•soci.rud P,.n Grap/1ic!JNor Houston 88 67 Philadelphia 73 59 Washington DC 75 54 

q,~,~9.GQ (f ~ u 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Faculty, students unite for research projects 
By BECKY REGALADO 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College held the Student Independent Study and Reasearch (SISTAR) in conjunction with Saint Mary's Pride Week to incorpo­rate academic pride into the week. The program provides student and faculty members with the opportunity to work with one another on research projects during the summer. 
"Not only did it give me the opportunity to work on a pro­ject of my own desire and my own design, but it allowed me to work closelv with a facultv member whos·e project bcne·­fited and aided my own," said Nora Byrne, who worked with philosophy professor Patti Sayre. 
At the heart of the SISTAR program is the interaction between student and the fac­ulty members. 
"We share a lot of stories. we have some history together now," said mathematics pro­fessor Joanne Snow of her col­laboration with Angela Finke. "I got to relive some old joys by watching her discover things that I thought were really neat." 
"It's a wonderful opportuni­ty to not only get to know a student, but to see a lirst rate mind at work," said music professor Clayton Henderson, who worked with Rebbeca Klest. 
Amv Dooms worked with Christopher Dunlap chemistry department worked on vari­ables affecting the phosphate levels in soils, and both stu­dent and teacher found posi­tive results outside the lab table. 
"To be able to talk to some­one who was interested in the same things in science was a wonderf'ul experience for the summer," Dunlap said. 
"The best part was that the SISTAR grant gave me a lot of confidence as a chemist," Dooms said. 
Many of the participants in the SISTAR program echo the same sentiment, that the pro­gram is fun and enriching for all of those who are involved. 
"If you have a passion for any topic, grab a faculty mem­ber," Snow said. 

Founder's Day to feature rides 
Founder's Day commissioner sponsor the event. By LAURA ROMPF for St. Edward's. "With so many groups Assistant News Editor "Founder's Day was a cam­involved, I think that the night 
pus-wide and well-recognized will be a lot of fun and a time 
Walking through the quad in holiday with many festivities. to remember," she said. front of Rolfs Hecreation SL Ed's If the festi­Center Thursday night, people always hosted val is well
"/ never thought it would 
might fear they have been a campus­attended and
be possible to actually
transported to a county fair wide charity goes smooth­miles away. However the car­carnival along get full scale thrill rides ly, the Student nival rides, including the with many Union hopes
to [Notre Dame]." 
Gravitron, the Rock'n'Rolt and other dorm to make an the Sizzler, are all part of the events during annual event, Founder's Day festivities spon­Founder's Brooke Norton Nerlinger and sored by the Student Union. Week," he student body vice-president Norton said. 
"Founder's Dav is the cele­s a i d bration of all tha't Notre Dame ''However, in is for us and all those who recent memory Founder's have gone before us," said vice week has fallen out of campus­president Brooke Norton. "It wide knowledge and has recognizes Saint Edward's become simply a small event Day, and what better way can where St. Ed's residents would we show our appreciation for dress up in honor of their Notre Oame than for us to namesake," honor those who founded our Norton said large donors for Universitv," she said. the festival include the Class of 
The festival will be from 4 2003. the Class of 2002, Class p.m. to 10 p.m. and will of 2001, Student Government, include 17 game booths. two of Student Activities Office, St. which are moonwalks, and a Edward's Hall, Coca-Cola and carnival-themed dining hall Food Services. She also said picnic. There will also be a that over 30 clubs, including concession trailer, serving hot NAACP, NASAND, College dogs and popcorn. Democrats, Student Alumni 
Founder's Day used lo be a Relations Group, Rodeo Club, week-long celebration hosted Troop ND, The Bagpipers, by St. Edward's Hall, said Habitat for Humanitv and the Andrew '.\lerlinger, the Rodeo Club, have also helped 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Summer Engineering Program ·Foreign Study in London, England 
INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 4, 2000 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00 p.m. 

$5M grant to explore Latino life in Chicago 
By LINDSAY FRANK 
News Writer 
The Institute for Latino Studies will use a $5 million grant from MacNeal Health Foundation to fund a five­year research initiative that will study and aid Latino communities in the Chicago area. 
"We're interested in research in the area through a series of studies, needs assessments, survevs of fam­ilies, and case stu.dies. We might also study sub-popula­ti on s like youth," said Gilberto Cardenas, director of the program. "We plan to work with community lead­"In the 
future, we would like to expand the event to be a full weekend event, perhaps including a dance," Norton said. "St. Ed's hopes to move this in subsequent years to be our own signature cam­pus-wide event," Nerlinger said. 
Norton said she is excited about the rides and hopes stu­dents will come out and sup­port the festival. 
"I am excited for the rides. I never thought it would be pos­sible to actuaUy get full scale thrill rides to [Notre Dame]," she said. "Come out because of the rides. The games will be awesome. It is a landmark event for Notre Dame, and it's the place to be." 
ers to determine how they define their community and the obstacles they face. 
The aim of the study enti­tled "The Berwyn-Cicero Hispanic Community Initiative in Education, Health, and Family" is to profile communities in the poorer areas of Chicago, principally the Berwyn­Cicero, Little Village, and Pilsen neighborhoods. 
These obstacles include those to education, employ­ment, and medical care. 
"We want to provide groups with information so they will be better informed about the communities' needs," he said. 
Due to the Institute's focus on the Latino experience in the US, Cardenas said Chicago was the best site in the area for such a study. 
"Chicago has the single largest concentration of Latinos in the Midwest. It behooves us to do a study in Chicago," he said. 
Currently those involved in the project work within the Institute but there are plans to include people outside as well. 
"We want to approach other units on campus and to conduct internships for undergrads and work for graduate students, We also plan to have partners in Chicago," Cardenas said. 
Recruiting for student internships will begin .later this fall with opportunities for summer positions. 
Although still in the initial design phases for the needs assessment, Cardenas plans to have numerous reports and briefings on their web site as well as books authored by faculty members which will help in developing a protocol. 
"Hopefully our project will persuade other centers to do similar studies," he said. 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
drink. 
McCue explained that key



Shot:s 

differences in the physiology continued from page 1 of men and women, such as 
women's smaller body size, said McCue. Still, she cau­greater amount of body fat, tioned against the popular higher estrogen levels and notion that if a someone has 
lower levels of the molecules had to much to drink, a 
that break down alcohol !"riend shoulcl cause that per­means that women ultimately son to throw up by reaching arc more affected than men down the person's throat. who have consumed similar "It' the gag reflex isn't 
amounts of alcohol. This is working on its own, you don't one major factor in the want to increase their chance reported sexual assaults. of choking," she explained. "A woman's going to get The effects of drinking are drunk faster and sober up 
not  Iimited  slower," she  
solely to physiological  "{Younger drinkers] are  McCue. Legal  con­ 
conse-· quences. and alcohol abuse can result in  drinking without understanding what it does to them.,.  scq u enc es also exist for those who choose to  
snrious harm  drink under­ 
even if a per­son does not consume  Cindy Mccue activist  age. she explained.  

enough to 
cause alcohol 
poisoning. 
Peoplu und1~r the influence of alcohol are at greater risk for sc rio us injury. said McCue. who noted that one third of all fatal accidents ·involve alcohol use. 
In addition, instances of sexual assault occur much more frequently when one or bolh people involved have b11<rn drinking. said Mccue. 
Seventy-seven percent of all reported campus rapes involve alcohol, and one in 12 college males admit thal lhey have participated in activity that fits lhe definition of rape after drinking 
"Alcohol is the date rape drug," she said. noU ng that drinking is involved in many more unwa.ntcd sexual encounters than GI-IB or rohypnol. In addition, the use of other drugs. even over-the­cou n te r medications, will increase the impact of each 
"All 50 
states make 
their own laws... One thing they have in common is that you must be 21 to purchase. to possess, or to consume alcohol." she said. McCuc said she supports the drinking age because she does not consider people younger than 21 to have the nccessarv mental, emotional or physical capacities to responsibly handle all situa­tions involving drinking. 
But despite the law, 80 per­cent of young people have experimented with alcohol before reaching college, and 50 percent had consumed alcoholic beverages within 30 days of being surveyed. 
One third said they engaged in binge drinking, which is defined as five or more drinks in one sitting for men and four or more for women. 
Those four or five drinks can be 12 ounces of beer. five ounces of wine or a one to 1.5 ounce shot. depending on the 


------=========-========================== 
place to oversee the athletic department's adherence to



Mall<>y 

National Collegiate Athletic continued from page 1 Association standards. 
the Office of Information . Malloy said that a recent Technologies. survey i-anked collections in the 
"Hight now we're searching 1-fesburgh Library No. 53 for new senior leadership," among all national universities Malloy said. and No. 17 among private insti­
tutions. Ile said the University 

. Responding to the Univer­continues to search for sity's No. 19 rank this year in endowed collections and to 
U.S. News & World Heporl, respond to space needs in the Malloy said, "It puts us in good facility. wmpany. lnst11ad of looking at 
who's ahead ol' us. look at . The University will contin­who's behind us." ue to be a strong force in the local community and on the 
. Malloy called it a "tough national scene. according to last year" in the athletic depart­Malloy. Ile told faculty mem­ment. llowcvcr, he commended bers that the University is cur­nuw athletic director Kevin rently supporting activities at White und his staff for their the Community Learning Center experience. and the Northeast 
"We now have an athletic Neighborhood Center. both in administration that reflects the South Bend. campus like never before, on "We're also working hard on racial and gender grounds," he lobbying in Congress in said. Washington. We're expecting 
The University president also some excellent rewards," said announced the athletic budget Malloy, who added that the would be integrated into the University is may establish a overall budget. In addition, center for its political activity in three complianc,~ officers are in the nation's capital. 
StaffpositioV\s are available o+ The Obse~ver. 
Call 631-5323. 
alcohol content of the liquor. Each drink adds 0.02 to 
0.025 grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood. A blood alcohol level of 0.1 is considered legally intoxicated in most states, and a person is at risk for death with a blood alcohol level of 0.35 or greater. Bradley's blood alco­hol al the time of his death was 0.44. 
"They are drinking without 
understanding what it does to 
them," said McCue of' the 
younger drinkers. 

One other common miscon­
ception is that one can only 
get alcohol poisoning from 
drinking hard liquor. 

Cases of the disease caused 
by other, less potent alcoholic 
beverages arc less common 
because the alcohol cannot be 
consumed as quickly, but 
they are still possible. 
explained Mccue. 

''You can get alcohol poi­soning from beer or wine. It just takes a larger quantity," she said. noting that with larger quantities the body is more likely to expel the bev­erage sooner. 
McCue also noted that until recently, educational institu­tions have failed to recognize that alcohol abuse is a major problem among college stu­dents. 
"Many universities are real­izing they need to be more realistic about education ... instead of just saying. 'It doesn't happen here,"' she said. "Being a school full of good students doesn't mean you don't have problems." 
She concluded by challeng­ing the audience to make responsible choices. 
"Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, commit­ted citizens can cause change," she said, quoting American anthropologist Margaret Mead. "Indeed, it is the only thing that ever has." 


Eldred discusses faith in wolilen's education 
By KATE DOOLEY 
News Writer 
As part of the annual "Women and Religion" lun­cheon. Marilou Eldred. presi­dent of Saint Mary's College, spoke on the benefits of a women ·s education based in faith. 
The lecture. "Understanding Our Daughters: Faith and Learning" explained that this sort of education prepares women for achievement not only the workforce but in soci­ety as well. 
"A woman should give as much as she receives," Eldred said of a woman after college. 
She stated that a faith-based education is advantageous in three basic ways. The first is having the ability to interpret. analyze and make sense of problems utilizing your spiri­tuality. 
She quoted Mother Theresa. "God doesn't require us to succeed, but only to try." 
The spirituality from a f'aith­based education will give stu­d en ts the ability to what Edlred called "adult problems" faced during the college years. 
Spirituality leads to the sec­ond advantage, Eldred said. This advantage is the ability to explore and deepen that faith in an encouraging environ­ment. 
"[Exploring your spiritualityJ provides more preparation for life than any career could," Edlred said. 
The last advantage, which she focused on the most. was that at a faith-based institu­tion, one learns the impor­tance of service. 
"Education alone does not 
give you success or a career." Dr. Eldred said. "We need to get out into the world and help our community. not just to analyze them as an object. but as a fellow citizen. to meet them and learn from them." 
In order to fully understand the worId. studcn ts need to participate in it firsthand. Saint Mary's and institutions like it give students many opportunities to do service in the surrounding communities, at places like Saint Margaret's House and homeless shelters, she said. 
"Service gives us many new experiences in which to test our beliefs and faith opinions," Eldred said. adding that utiliz­ing the advantages of a faith­based institution gives stu­dents "grounding l'or life after graduation." 
A well-rounded experience is necessary for success, not just academics, Eldred explained. 
In reference to this, Eldred quoted Walter Cursey, "You can get all A's and still nunk 
life... 
"You must practice balance, besides school you should pray. meditate ... you must 
work and play," said Dr. Eldred. 
Overall, Eldred emphasized the importance of role-models and mentors in college. 
"Look for mentors every­where for spiritual. intellectu­al. and emotional guidance." 
Regardless of the type of cducation, Ed Ired stressed the importance of such an educa­tion. A college education is not something to be taken for granted. she said. 
"lligher-earning education is a gift and a privilege." 


SEI INVESTMENTS 
SEI is best described by what it is not. It is not slow. It is not boring. It is not typical. SEI 1s financially strong. It is innovative. It is different. 
We are a leading global provider of technology, mutual fund, and asset mana_gement services tor institutions,_ professional investment advisors, and affluent families. 
If you want to find out how you can be a part of our success ... come talk to us. 
Resume Submission  September 15 • October 19  
I nformat1on Session  October 5, 7:30 p.m. • Greenfield's Cafe  
Interviews  November 10  
All majors are welcome.  

www.seic.com/newh ire 

ATION 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSEHVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Father asks to avenge boy's death: 
The father of a 12-year-old boy whose on­camera death in an Israeli-Palestinian gun battle shocked the world said Tuesday he begged tho Israelis to stop firing, and he urged the international community to avenge his son's death. Jamal Aldura. 37, said he and his son. Mohammed Jamal Aldura. were returning home Saturday when they were caught in the battle. "They started shooting at the taxi we were in and we got out to seek bntter shnlter," he told The Associated Press. 
Dominica welcomes new leader: 
Former schoolteacher Pierre Charles was sworn in as prime ministr,r of the small Caribbean island of Dominica 011 Tuesday, replacing Roosevelt Douglas, who died of an apparent heart attack. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Teacher assigns murder for work: 
A high school English teacher is out of a job after assigning his students the mock task of picking an assassination victim and planning the killing without getting caught. School offi­cials on Monday refused to say if Andrew Phillips resigned or was fired after giving the assignment to students reading Edgar Allan Poe's "The Pit and the Pendulum." "The first thing that hit me was Columbine, and what if he has a loose end in the classroom that wants to make a name for himself and the teacher is supporting this type of action? It could be (my son) that's shot or bombed or whatever." parent Joyce Jarvis said. 
Congress sets drunk driving law: 
Congress agreed to a tough national standard for drunken driving with penalties for states that don't abide. President Clinton called it a "common sense nationwide limit" that will sav<i an estimated 500 lives a year. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Camm faces murder charges: A for­mer state trooper accused of killing his wife and two children told a priest Monday night that he did not commit the murders. David Ray Camm was allowed to leave his jail cell briefly sc, he could view the bodies of' his wife, Kimberly, 36. and the couple's two children, 5-yirnr-old Jill and 7-year-old Bradley. The thrne were found dead in tlw family's garage Thursday. Police said it appeared the young girl had been molested recently. A funeral for the victims was scheduled Tuesday at Graceland Baptist Church in New Albany. 
Market Watch 10/3 
DO\Y/ 

10,719.74 +19.61 
]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same:' Volume:1.454 441 1,197,190,016 
AMFX: 937..4'6 Nasdaq: 3455.83 -113.07 NYSE: · 664.62 :-1.75. 

S&P 500: 1426.46 -9.77 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTLl. CORI' (INTO +0.4u +0.18 40.13 
CISCO SYSl°El',IS COCO! t 1.J~ +Cl 75 5(1.25 
ORACLE CORI' (ORCL) -l 1.75 -915 69 50 
DELL COMPUTER !DELL) -236 -.69 28.56 
,\,1ICROSOHCOI\P (MSFT) -4.34 -2.56 56.56 

CANADA 


Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
Thousands of Canadians wept and applauded at for­mer Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau's funeral Tuesday as his son remembered his father's love of country, told the nation to carry on his work -and then buried his tearstained face in the flag draping his father's coffin. 
"The woods are lovely, dark and deep. He has kept his promises, and earned his sleep," Justin Trudeau said, near tears as he paraphrased the American poet Robert Frost to close his eulogy. 

"Je t'aime (I love you) Papa." 
Inside and outside Montreal's ornate Notre­Dame Basilica, dignitaries including Jimmy Carter and Fidel Castro and thou­sands of ordinary Canadians gathered to pay their respects to Trudeau, the dashing former prime minister who boosted a nation's pride with his charisma, his willingness to buck the United States and his dedication to Canadian unity. Five days of nationwide mourning culminated at the two­hour state funeral here. Solemn prayers mixed nas­ily with tears and applause from the 2,700 mourners inside during the service, conducted in French and English. 
Justin, Trudeau's eldest son and a Vancouver teacher, delivered the final eulogy in a voice eerily like his father's and cracking with emotion. He spoke movingly of his father's abiding love of his country and family and of his admonition never to speak harsh words about any individual. 
"This simple tolerance and {recognition of) the_ real and profound dimen­sions of each human being, regardless of beliefs, ori­gins, or values -that's what he expected of his children and that's what he expected of our coun­try," Justin said. 
Trudeau, who died last Thursday of prostate can­cer at the age of 80, served as prime minister from 1968 to 1984 with a short interruption. Justin Trudeau challenged Canadians to keep his father's dream of a united, tolerant, bilingual and multicultural nation alive, saying: "It's all up to us, all ofus now." 
After speaking, he walked to his father's cof­fin , kissed the Canadian flag draping it and buried his face in it as he sobbed. 

Test-tube baby may save sibling 
Doctors should know in a couple of genetics at the Reproductive Genetics 
Associated Press 

weeks whethrr the infusion is help­Institute in Chien.go, where A.dam MINNEAPOLIS ing Molly develop healthy marrow was conceived. "I have absolutely no 
ln the first known case of its kind, cells. ethical problems with this whatsoev­a Colorado couple created a tPst-tube Screr,ning laboratory-created er." baby who was genetically screened embryos for genetic diseases before Molly was just beginning to show and selected in the hope he could implanting them in a woman is not signs of leukemia, which is frr,quent­save the life of his 6-year-old sister. new. But this is the first known ly associated with the disease, when 
The sister, Molly Nash, has a rare instance in which parents screened she had the transplant, said Or. John genetic disease, Fanconi anemia, and selected an embryo in order to Wagner. her physician at the that prevents her body from making find a suitable tissue donor for an University of Minnesota. The infusion bone marrow. But last week, doctors ailing sibling. procedure between siblings has a 90 gave her an infusion of umbilical­"People have babies for lots of rea­percent success rate. cord blood from her newborn little sons: to save a failing marriage, to "Molly's doing very well," Wagner brother, Adam, to try to correct thr, work the family farm," said Dr. said Tuesday, although she had a disease. Charles Strom, director of medical slight cold. 

page 6 The Ob,erver . CAMPAIGN 2000 Wednesday, October 4, 2000 

REFLECTIONS ON AUSCHWITZ AJOURNEY TO APOLISH CONCENTRATION CAMP 
AStudent Panel Discussion Wednesday, October 4, 2000 7P.M. CAVANAUGH HALL 
Refreshments to Follow 
Sponsored By . 
THE NOTRE DAME HOLOCAUST PROJECT and CAVANAUGH HALL 
Debate 
continued from page l 
minor party candidates but 
locked out of the proceedings. 
In addition to I.ax cuts, Bush 

and Gore clashed over prescrip­
tion drugs for the elderly. an 
issue that ranks high in impor­
tance with voters. particularly 
in the key battleground states of 
the Midwest. 
Bush blamed Washington for 

failing to pass legislation, and 
touted his own plan to have 
states offer benefits. "You've 
had your chance. Mr. Vice 
President," the governor said. 
But Gore. who favors a pre­scription drug benefit available to all Medicare recipients, said that under Bush's plan only the low-income ,vould receive immediate help. Everyone else would havn to wait up to four years, he said. In addition, he added. seniors could be forced into IIMOs to get a prescription drug benelit. 
"I ca.nnot let this go by, the old-style Washin.~ton politics. trying to scare you with phony numbers," Bush swiftly replied. lie accused Gore of "Medi­scare." 
"This is a man who has great numbers," he said of the vice president. 'Tm beginning to think not only did he invent the Internet, he invented the calcu­lator." 
Asked about energy policy, Gore attacked Bush for propos­ing oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Area. 
Bush said such domestic oil exploration was preferable to continuing to import a million barrels of oil a day from Iraq's Saddam Hussein. 
To keep the candidates cool, university officials turned the thermostat inside the Clark Athletic Center gym well below 65 degrees. That's the show­time temperature, once the lights were !1ipped on and seats filled, that was required under contract by the Commission on Presidential Debates. 
The bipartisan group is spon­soring all four debates with the idea that they will be shown on as many TV networks as possi­ble. Most were carrying the first one, but NBC gave its alliliates a choice between the baseball playoffs and the debate, while FOX went with its series pre­miere of "Dark Angel." 
Veteran PBS newsman Jim 
Lehrer was moderator. 
A New York TimmVCBS News 
poll underscored the depth of at 
least one stereotype that Bush 
was hoping to erase through the 
prime-time debate: that he is 
too green for the job. 
In the survey, 71 perccnt of rnspondents said Gore. a former congressman and senator, had "prepared himself well enough for the job of president." Just 49 percent associated that quality with Bush. the former oil com­pany executive and managing partner of baseball's Texas Hangers who has served nearly six years as Texas governor. 
On issues, Bush held a clear advantage over Core when respondents were asked who would lower taxes and keep the nation's military defenses strong. Gore was overwhelm­ingly favored on questions of making health care more affordable and being able to negotiate effectively with world leaders. 
Early on debate day, Core had stayed inside the Florida beach bungalow he used for "debate camp,'' while Bush indulged in a run and a nap in West Virginia. The 9 p.m. debate start was just hair an hour before Bush's usual 9:30 p.m. bedtime. 
"Heady to go," Bush told reporters as he made his way to Boston from a campaign stop in heavily Democratic West Virginia. 
He joked about turning up in "early Hegis wear," a reference to game-show host Regis Philbin's monochromatic attire. 
Just kidding. Bush hastened to add. "Tonight's not the night for gimmicks. Tonight's the night to talk about hard, compassionate issues." He blew kisses to office workers watching him leave his Huntington, W.Va., hotel. 
Gore, by contrast, uttered no public words as his motorcade pulled out of Florida's Longboat Key resort Tuesday morning. Supporters greeted him with a bedsheet spraypainted: "It's game day, go get 'em!" 
Both Bush and Core hoped to ride fresh momentum into key battleground states on Wednesday, with Gore headed to Ohio and Bush to Pennsylvania and Ohio. 
Preparing for the next debates. Lieberman joked. "We've gone through training camp. I feel as if I'm a boxer this week. We do a little 'Hocky.' We, you know. run up and down the stairs." 
Nader denied entrance to debate 
Associated Press 

BOSTON 
Green Party presidential can­didate Ralph Nader. shunned by the presidential debate commis­sion. scored a ticket to Tuesday night's debate but was turned awav at the door. 
"It's already been decided that wh!)thrr or not you have a ticket you are not welcome in thr debate," John Bezeris, a representative or the debate commission, told Nader. The commission had excluded all but Democratic and Hcpublican candidates. 
''I didn't expect they would be so crude and so stupid," Nader said after being turned away. "This is the kind of creeping tyranny that has turned away so many voters from the elec-
Wheelchairs block GOP entrance 
which started at 4 p.m., forced
A.»ocia.Led Press 

the cancellation of a fund-rais­er and kept party employeesWASHINGTON 
from leaving the building,
Dozens of handicapped peo­although some climbed out of
ple in wheelchairs blocked 
first-floor windows. 
entrances to the Republican 
The protesters began dis­Party's headquarters for five 
persing after police prepared
h o u r s 

to make arrests by moving
Tuesday 

buses up to the building.
demanding 

"We accomplished as much
a meeting as we could here." said

w i t h Michael Auberger of Denver,

George W. 

a spokesman for Adapt, a
Bush, the 

loosely organized group that
GOP presi­

organized the protest.
dential 

The protesters said they
nominee. 

want Bush to sign a pledge
T h e 

supporting the 10-year-old
protest, 


Trapped by Food? 
toral process." 
Nader, who took the subway to the debate site, had received the ticket as a gift from Todd Tavares, a 21-year-old Northeastern University student who said he got it from a room­mate. 
When he arrived at the site of the debate at the University of Massachusetts-Boston, Bezeris, surrounded by several police otlicers. told Nader he could not enter because he was not an invited guest. 
Nader was among a trio of third-party candidates who did their best Tuesday to keep the Hepublican and Democratic nominees from stealing the show. 
Hours before the debate. a judge threw out a court chal­lenge filed earlier in the day by Massachusetts Libertarians to try to force organizers to include their candidate, Harry Browne. 
"The plaintiffs have slept on their rights by waiting until the last minute to seek relief," Suffolk Superior Court Judge Gordon Doerfer ruled. He said intervening in the debates would deprive the public of information it needs about the candidates. 
The lawsuit claimed Browne should be included because Massachusetts, which o!'ficially recognizes the party. spent $900.000 to lrnlp pay for the debate. 
Nader also criticized the com­mission's decision to limit the debate to candidates with more than 15 percent support in national polls. 
Americans With Disabilitir,s Act, a law barring discrimina­tion and requiring wheelchair ramps and other accommoda­tions for the disabled. Bush's father signed the legislation into law. 
Republican officials did not immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the protest. 

"A letter would have been sufficient but we will convey their request" for a meeting with Bush. said GOP spokesman Cliff May. "We asked them to take a look at the governor's record on dis­abilities issues." 
Free Yourself. 
The Healthy Options for Problem Eaters (HOPE) program of Madison Center and Hospital specializes in comprehensive care for eating disorders. 
With help, people with eating disorders can Jearn how to regain control of their lives. If you or someone you know struggles \Vith an eating disorder, please call today. 
219/283-1280 
• Madison Center and Hospital 
403 E. Madison Street, South Bend 
ao+ Mews? Call 1-5323 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Congress approves high-tech visas 
Associated Pre,s 
WASHINGTON 

High-tech companies could bring in almost b00,000 addi­tional skilled foreign workers over the next three years and also hire thousands more for­eign students from U.S. gradu­ate programs under a bill that sped through Congress on Tuesday. 
The Senate passed the bill on a 96-1 vote, and the House fol­lowed with voice vote passage several hours later, abandoning a version of its own that met serious opposition from the technology ind us try. 
The quick congressional action after nine months of jockeying fulfills an election-year promise by both Democratic and Republican leaders to a high­tech sector that is increasingly flexing its political muscle through lobbying and campaign donations to both parties. Presidenl Clinton has said he will sign it. 
"We should pass the bill jusi as it is, so we don't have to con­fe ren cc it," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif.. "It's the best bill that's been considered vet." 
Lofgren had cosponso~ed a similar bill with Rep. David Dreier, R-Calif., that had stalled in the House in favor of a ver­sion that had more protections for American high-tech workers. 
With U.S. unemployment rates holding steady near a 30-year low. companies in California's Silicon Valley and along other booming high-tech corridors say they need the additional work­ers with six-year 11-1 B visas to fuel their continuing rapid growth. 
"The short-term problem is how to fill the key positions immediatelv so that we don't lose opportunities to foreign competitors or so that we don't force American businesses to move offshore to where skilled workers might live," said Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich. 
A bill by Rep. Lamar Smith, R­Texas, that was approved by the House Judiciary Committee would have required companies using visas to increase the medi­an pay of their U.S. workers and establish job projections for them. The industry ()pposed Smith's bill. 
Dreier. who chairs the House 

Hules Committef', ca!IP.d the 
Senate version "dynamite" and 
had said earlier that House lead­
ers would find a way to get it 
passed. 
Industry advocates -includ­ing Microsofl and Sun Microsvstems, the U.S. Chambf'r of Commerce and the National 
·Association of Manufacturers ­
praised the Senate vote and 
called for the House to follow 
suit. 
"If we want Lhc United Stutes 

to maintain its technological 
advantage, employers must be 
allowed l() hire the professionals 
they need," said Paula Collins, 
director of government relations 
for Texas Instruments. 
Technology businesses have more than doubled their politi­cal contributions during the past two years, according to the inde­pendent Center for Responsive Politics. The companies have given candidates $22.1 million since the start of last year, with Democrats getting a little more than half of that. 
Computer software and other high-tech companies contend that 300,000 jobs are going unfilled for a lack of qualified workers. Labor unions, howev­er, argue that that the compa­nies want more immigrants to put keep down wages of Americans holding the same 

Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization AP 
jobs. 
While lifting the ceiling entire­ly on the H-lB visas, Smith's bill requires employers to pay the immigrants at least $40,000 a year and not use them to replace Americans on their pay­rolls. Companies would also have to document that they have at least $250,000 in capital to participate in the program. 
Sen. Ernest F. Hollings, D-S.C., cast the lone vote against the bill. Sens. Dianne Feinstein, D­Calif.; Edward M. Kennedy, D­Mass., and Joseph Liebermaµ, D-Conn., did not vote. 

The Senate bill would allow the Immigration and Naturalization Service to issue up to 195,000 new H-1B visas . annually for the next three years to skilled foreign workers. The bill also would exempt from the cap foreign graduates of U.S. master's or doctoral programs or foreign workers at U.S. col­leges. providing another source of labor to high-tech companies. 
L~J~tt ~l)) Stnlli~~Jl~ 
l~l~ulk~ 181~111~\J CUu~i1~~ 


~"°1' -~~·-'.~ ~·t . ,.l .,..., .. ~""""· ~•• 
When ND students t choose to.drink men have 5 ~ or f e .., 
...... . 
drinks per eveni 
,Al --·
womenhav 

·1,drimk •= ·1 /2,oz [pt1r\e\a cd.l:ldl 
which is approximately 1Ooz 5% beer= 4 oz 12% wine= I oz I 00 proof liquor 
A ml's,n~t· fr<'m l'ILL\RS 
wirh :\kulwl & Drn;.: E,lu,ari,,n 11 I L.1 h1rtunl' Srmk·nt l\·ntt:r Lnin:r~it,· ,if :-:urrl' D.tmi.: (2!•)) <~H-797~' http://www.nd,c·du/-,1Uru-,:/ 

Fed leaves interest rates at same level 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Federal Reserve policy-mak­ers decided Tuesday for a third straight time to leave interest rates unchanged but signaled that further rate increasP.s are possible because of rising energy prices. 
The central bank said soar­ing crude oil costs have had only a "limited effect" on underlying price pressures so 
far, but it added that higher ener­gy costs posed the risk of "rais­ing inflation expecta­tions" down the road. 
That reve­lation disap­pointed Wall Street, which had 
hoped the central bank would sound a definite all-clear as far as future rate increases were concerned. 
The Dow Jones industrial average, which had been up more than 140 points before the Fed's midafternoon announcement, shed those gains as traders focused on the new inflation worries. The Dow finished the day up just 19.61 at 10,719.74. 
"The markets shouldn't have been surprised," said Allen Sinai, chief global econo­mist at Decision Economics in New York. "For a central bank to declare victory on inflation before these energy questions get settled would have been a big mistake." 
The decision to leave rates alone followed similar stand­pat decisions at the Aug. 22 and June 28 meetings of the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee, composed of Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and col­leagues who meet eight times a year to set interest rates. 
The last rate change occurred on May 16 when the Fed boosted its federal funds rate. the interest that banks charge each other, a half­point to 6.5 percent. 
In a brief statement explain­ing Tuesday's decision, the Fed said the demand for goods and services had moderated to a pace closer to the economy's potential to produce, helped by continued strung advances in the productivity of American workers. 
But the Fed cautioned that labor markets remain excep­

"For a central bank to declare victory on inflation before these energy questions get set­tled would have been a big mistake." 
Allen Sinai economist 
tionally tight. For the first time. the central bank said an increase in e n e r g y prices "poses a risk of raising infla­tion expecta­tions." 
Going for­ward. the Fed said it 
viewed the balance of risks as weighted toward higher infla­tion. Wall Street had hoped the Fed would switch to a neu­tral stance at this meeting, indicating a view that future risks were equally balanced between the threat of inflation and the threat of weaker growth. 
The inclusion of rising ener­gy pri-ces as an inflation threat, analysts said, was meant to put markets on notice that future interest rate increases remain a distinct possibility. 
"Not only is inflation still a concern, but oil prices have been added to [tight] labor markets as a threat," said Joel Naroff of Naroff Economic Advisers. "We will have to see not only growth slow and labor market pressures ease, but also oil prices fall before we can feel confident that the Fed is done." 
Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, said he still detected a change of tone in the Fed's announcement from earlier in the year. 


Salsa Ni[ht Every Thursday 
September 28 October 5th October26 
El Son De Aqur Freddy Kenton Benji 
y Los Ases Del Merengue y Su Merenbanda 
November2 November30 December 7th 
El Son De Aquf El Son De Aquf Fuerza y Alma 
The Club Landing• 1717 Lincolnway East• South Bend, IN. 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 

page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
.---------------­

Something for 

every one of 

your 9,000 tastebuds. 
Introducing the new 99C BK CRAVERS™ Menu. 
NEW MENU ITEMS 
• Finger Foods -Mozzarella Cheese Sticks -JALAPENO POPPERS® 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
GERMANY 
Firebombing disrupts celebration of reunification 
Associated Press 
DRESDEN 

Germany celebrated 10 years as one nation Tuesday in a city rebuilding symbols of its pre­World War 11 splendor, but the bombing of a synagogue dark­ened the festive mood, 
Thousands of Germans joined dignitaries, including 
U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and French President JacquRs Chirac, to mark reunification in Dresden, a once magnificent city whose devastation by wartime Allied bombers left a potent Nazi-era wound on I.hf\ nation. 
With Dresden landmarks enjoying a post-unification renaissance, the city was an ideal stage for reflecting on the good -and the bad -that followed the Oct. 3, 1990 union of communist east and capital­ist west Germany. 
During a ceremony at the gilt-columned Semper Opera. 
Chirac honored the East synagogue in Duesseldorf. German pro-democracy nearly 500 miles Lo the west, demonstrators who brought lent new urgency to concerns down the Berlin Wall in about the ugly side of united November' 1989, paving the Germany. way for unification only 11 Police said unknown months later. assailants 
He and tossed as
"Younger people say we

Gorman lead­many as three ers stressed Molotov cock­
are one society, but for their coun­older people there is t ails at the tries· commit­synagogue's
a barrier. " 

ment to com­front door just pleting the before mid­process by Ralf Rudolf night Monday. bringing the A prominent
citizen of Dresden 

ex-communist German nations of Jewish leader eastern Europe into the west­condemned the attack as a ern fold. sign that far-right hate is not 
"United Germany has found limited to the economically its place in this Europe," said struggling east. Saxony governor Kurt "The Nazis and their vio­Biedenkopf, whose state host­lence in both cast and west arc ed the festivities. "We are now also united," Michel thankful also for that on Friedman.said. German Unity Day." In Dresden, musicians 
But after a summer marked dressed in folk costumes sere­by resurgent neo-Nazi vio­naded officials as they walked lence, the firebombing of a a route lined by thousands of 



HOMES FOR RENT 
2001-2002 SCHOOL YEAR 
-Domus Properties has 4,5,6,7,8 
· and·l O bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods dose to campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance ·staff on call 

Available for the 2001-2002 School Year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 8 HOUSES LEFT 
C~ntact Kramer (219) 274-1501 or (219) 234-2436 or (219) 674-2572 
"•;;~s~-,cc~":'''i ~,E 'l;f?"~lit~ 
.-.. 0 F · ·••,.• .. ,.":·· -. )E. N G '. N E E R. I N' G:· 
D STINGUISHED 
L E C T u R E 
s E R E s 
Larry Augustin 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director VA Linux Systems 
revelers from a church service io the main cere­mony at the opera. Watches and mugs mark­ing the unity anniversary were on sale. 
Semper Opera is one of several historic buildings refurbished by the former communist regime. 
Inside, President Johannes Rau warned 
fellow citizens to fight "all forms of anti-foreign­er sentiment" and vio­lence against other minorities. 
"We must not allow that people are hunted in the middle of Germany," he said, a remark recalling 6 million Jews and many others who died under the Nazis. 
Notably absent from the festivities was the main architect of German unity, for­mer Chancellor Helmut Kohl. Kohl, 70, stayed away after being denied a chance lo speak because of his central role in a financing scandal dogging his Christian Democratic party. But Chirac and Rau lavished praise on him for his historic achieve­ment, drawing big rounds of applause. 
The national holiday and the celebrations in various towns across the nation offered Germans on both sides of the former divide a chance to reflect on their common achievements -and on what still separates them emotional­ly and materially. 
With its mix of new upscale stores, rotting factories and reviving cultural landmarks, Dresden is still in transition. 
Though living standards 

have largely equalized over the past decade, eastern Germans still earn less than their western counterparts and unemployment in the region is twice the national average. 
Even within families, there are disparate views of the 1989-90 changes. Ralf Rudolf. 32, a Dresden native who works for an electronics com­pany in a western city, said he still feels like an outsider. 
"There are still borders," he said during the festivities. "Younger people say we are one society, but for older peo­ple there is a barrier." 
His 27-year-old brother had a more optimistic view. "You can't simply speak of east and west," said Roland Rudolf, an out-of-work pharmaceutical engineer. "I think that's just too simple, 10 years after uni­fication." 
··.. '
•,·..··J.~­
,. .,..., ·'. ·. '~ 
·~· .. '. •''iF, 
~.·•··... '·~1­
t . ,:•r, 1\-j-·. . 
7o
oo1c 01c 


The Future of Software Development and the Internet ­
Friday, October 6 
12:50 to 1 :40 p.m. in the DeBartolo Auditorium, Room 101 Live Web cast available at: http://www.nd.edu/-webcast/ 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, October 4, 2000 

THE ()BSERVER 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dinin,: Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillcspii·  Tim Lane  
A~T. MANAGING EDITOR  O1'ER.ATION, MANAGER  
Chri<tinc Kraly  Brian Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VJF.WPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDfrOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lmg 
ADVERTISING MAN.\CER: Pat Peters AD DESIGN MAN.,GfR: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner C0NTROI.LER: Bob Wood. GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CoNTACT Us 

OHICE MANAGER/GENERAL INrn .............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVF.RTISING .. .. .. .. ... .. .. ... .. 63 J-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmTOR/J\.ssr. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICf'........................................631-5313 Ni-.WS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS................... ..................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR.v's................ , ............................ 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO..................... ..................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visir our Web sire m http:llobsm,rr.ndedu for daily updates of campus news, sporc.s. features and opinion columns, as well as ca, toons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for u fHo-,:he 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

onlinc features for spe­
and rares of print ads 

cial campus coverdge 
archives co search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

ro meet rhe editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is th,· independent, daily newspaper published in print an<' online by the students of the University of Notte Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including advertisements, is nor governed by po!ic:es of the administration ofeither institution. The Obse.:ver reserves the righr m refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is repom·d as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managmg Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views of the authors and noi: necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. ~tt~rs to the Editor r,us1 be signed and must include concacc informacion. 
Quesliom ,,gardmg Obsm,n· polici~s should be dincl­rd to Edimr m ChiefMilte C'an11oliy. 
I believe it was the cool Marsellus 
Wallace from that crazy film "Pulµ 
Piction" who once said. "I am going to go 
medieval on your ass." He was about to 
get down to some especially violent busi­
ness, business too 
inappropriate to be Anna Barbour 
considered modern. 
People are more 
sophisticated than they used to be, you Get A Life know? Moderns, unlike medievals, don't heave their trash out of their windows anymore. And most (although not all) wash up after using the lavatory. We moderns have laws against indecent exposure, which is important around finals time on the ND campus. 
Right, so we are not "medieval" any­more. Or are we still medieval at heart? We may bathe more often; we may not split people's heads open \\ith flat swords anymore; but we do have what is known as World Championship Wrestling, which while not so refined, has enough viewers to challenge the sacred domain of Monday Night Football. 
And we do have what is known as the "Gentlemen's Club." From coast to coast, from Canada to Mexico, from Babes in Maine to Club Love in Hawaii, from 4 Play (get it?) in California and The Boom Boom room in Oregon to Teasers in Louisiana and Secrets in Mississippi, with Kit 'N' Ka Boodle in Texas and Deja Vu in South Bend, every state has Gentlemen's Clubs; and most have Ladies' Clubs, like La Bare and Chip 'N' Dales (which for some reason, are much less advertised). How is it possible that a minimum of approximately 60 of these "night clubs" still exist in every state of America? Who patronizes these places and brings his business associates? Who works in these places? Does the exis­tence of aforementioned clubs and the WCW prove the stagnation of the human condition? 
Peering down 1-35, blurry-eyed from a 1, 100-mile drive away from the Golden Dome. I see a billboard advertising a scantily clad woman and the Venus Room. Looking away, my eyes rove over the opposite side of the highway and what do you suppose I see again? Another semi-nude woman advertising fun at Obsession. What the heck? Fun? What kind of fun? So I get on the Internet for more information. And Obsession does have a site from which I learn that at certain "night clubs" one can, if so inclined, purchase five-star cui­sine, be "entertained," rent a private room. buy high quality wine and liquor and have his Benz valet parked. Thus, gentlemen's clubs offer a complete evening of fun not only for the everyday rabble but also the richest in society. 

Why have these clubs gotten such a sleazy, immoral connotation throughout the years? Is it bad that planes with trail­ing banners circle high above our Catholic university advertising some of these clubs during every home football game? Well, let us ponder. Could these "clubs" have gotten an unholy label because an individual, for monetary gain and before an audience, stripping one's clothes off in a gyrating manner, does a service that can be implicated in the old­est of professions -prostitution? 
An article in the June issue of Honey magazine reports on the boom in the stripping business for both men and women. The article accounts for this burst of growth by the economic pros­perity of the early '90s. The article describes strip-shows in New York seen by some 900 kicking, screaming, mob­bing women. 
Also, according to the article a strip­dancer can make $150 to $250 an hour working private parties. In the classifieds of most city newspapers, want ads over­flow with promises of big money to inex­perienced dancers. In the summer months, the South Bend Tribune adver­tised: "$1,000+ cash/wk must be 18+" for night club dancers. At the same time, ads in the Boston Globe and the Arizona Republic respectively stated: "Dancer $500 -$5,000/wk" and "earn up to $1,500 a week, 19 years." The Times­Picayune of New Orleans and the Chicago Tribune simultaneously adver­tised: "$1,200/wk Exotic Dancers, $75/hr plus tips." and "Dancers/Showgirls opportunity of a lifetime. $300 ­$500/day not uncommon. No exp nee. must be 18+." Memphis' The Commercial Appeal and Kansas' the Wichita Eagle also had: "Over 18, $1,000 per week guaranteed commission" and "Dancers earn $1000/wk." In New York's Newsday: "DANCERS exotic wanted for corporate and private parties." The Honolulu Advertiser/Star Bulletin: "Exotic dancers. Will train. $$$ nightly! Make top pay." 
Sifting through a mountain of exotic dancer want ads, I made a few connec­tions. First and foremost, absolutely no experience is necessary. Secondly, every club offers big$$$ (except the Show 'N' Tell bar in Philadelphia which offers $101hr). Thirdly, every club is upscale, exclusive and has good working condi­tions. Lastly, you must be eighteen to apply. 
Maybe it's just me, but isn't it truly a tad old-fashioned and perhaps wildly strange that there still exists a job in every state where an inexperienced, teenage girl can make $1,000 a week showing her body in an exotic fashion to men who may or may not be gathered for a corporate party? 
As Neil Diamond says, "Money talks," and its got to be screaming at you when you can obtain it without much training and without being old enough to drink alcohol. Imagine working for minimum wage, imagine working for $6.10 at the Huddle, or imagine working for $75 an hour plus tips. I don't know, but econom­ically one job does beat the other by a vast margin. 
In the end, whether it's 1492, 1992 or 2492, times do not.seem to be a­changin'. Wherever there's a dime to be made in the flesh peddling business, there's always going to be that exotic Spanky's or that X-rated Shagnasty's, right there. ready to let the rich and poor alike spend as many greenbacks as they desire. 
Anna Barbour is a junior theology and pre-med major. Her column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
E
DOG BERT CONSULTS 
~

----_-_-_-:_-_-_-_:_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_-,.::---1 i 
@
YOU N[IE:Q TO 
.. 
E
..
..,
I\E0RGA.NIZE BY 
CUSTOl'1\ER TYPE. 
i.. 
ONE DIVISION 
WOULD FOCUS ON SELLING TO 
FEEBLE-MINDED PEOPLE. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
A.RE '{QU GESTURING AT ME BECAUSE I WOULD WORK IN THAT DIVISION? 
WHAT'S 
YOUR SECOND GUESS? 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Mothers all want their sons to grow up to be President, but they don't want them to become politicians in the process." 
John F. Kennedy former President of the United States 
VIEWPOINT 
~HE 

Wednesday, October 4, 2000 vnSERVER page 11 
Multicultural groups invite all to participate 
Recently, I have heard murmurs that Multicultural Student Programs and Services, and many of the ethnic organi­zations which fall under our direction, are an exclusive group or groups, that our programs and initiatives are sepa­MSPS rating us from the majority of Notre Dame students. What's Your Subtle as they might Shade? be, demands have surfaced in our staff meetings and student organization meetings asking us to reach out to the whole community and include the majority population in our activities. Segregation and exclusivity, they say, should not be perpetuated. 
Well, I agree. We should not exclude anybody from attending our events. And we should not exclude anyone from join­ing our organizations. But I feel impelled to remind everyone that like the College Oem01.;rats or the Polo Club, or even the Porn Squad or the Judo Club, the Korean Student Association, La Alianza and the Black Cultural Arts Council all have a purpose for people who hold a specific interest and repre­sent a specific population. Certainly, the Water Polo Club members do not play chess at their practices. And I am quite certain the Recyclin' Irish du not per­form hip-hop dance routines as a part of their programs. 
My assumption is that the Gymnastics Club is for gymnasts, or at least people interested in becoming one. And mem­bers of the Pre-Law Society probably have a sincere interest in the law pro­fession. Similarly, many of the Filipino American Student Organization mem­bers are Filipino or have an interest in learning about them. And the same can be said about the members of the Native American Student Association of Notre Dame. the Vietnamese Student Association and the Hawai'i Club. Hut unlike many other organizations, nei­ther FASO, NASAND, VSA nor the Hawai'i Club are going to exclude a stu­dent who isn't Asian or Native American, Vietnamese or Hawai'ian. I can speak from experience. 
These organizations and the members who make them up are excited to see others who don't necessarily represent the name within the title, get involved with their groups. To this day, the Filipino American Student Organization insists that "you don't have to be Filipino to go to Fiestang." Fiestang Filipino, the cultural dinner show put on by FASO annually for the past four years, has had an extremely diverse attendance of nearly 300 people every year. 

The Asian American Association makes it a point to diversify the repre­sentation of their models for their cam­pus-wide production of Asian Allure, a fashion show put on in Washington Ball. And they do so while still allowing them­selves a chance to celebrate the Asian culture and to educate the audience on Asian values. 
La Alianza. the major Latino/Hispanic programming organization, has recently teamed up with WVFI in order to fur­ther their outreach to the Notre Dame community. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council is presently advertising try-outs for their talent showcase, Blak Images, as an opportunity for anyone who wants to sing, dance, or show-off a talent (look for advertisemfmts in The Observer'). 
The bottom line is simple. You may see a poster that says the NAACP is putting on a formal dance, the Vietnamese Student Association is hold­ing a cultural dinner or Multicultural Student Programs and Services is cele­brating Black History Month. But just because the words Vietnamese, Black, Hispanic or Multicultural are in a title ~n a poster doesn't mean you arc not invited. 1 promise you that the word "only" will never follow any of these words, and that you won't be told to leave when you show up. 
Anyone and everyone are welcome. As a matter of fact, my guess is that if those who feel like they arc being excluded start showing up, people are going to stop thinking any of the above men­tioned are exclusive groups. Show up. Please come. You'll see. We want you to become involved no matter who you are or what you look like. 
And maybe then I can avoid using the words you and us in my articles. 
This column was written by Kevin Huie, who is the assistant director of Multicultural Student Programs and Services. MSPS has a column that appears in Vi.ewpoint every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed here are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Campaign against excessive 
U.S. military spending 
In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus emphasized the loving care of God by comparing it to the care we give our own children. "Is there anyone among you, who if your child asks for bread, will give a stone?" (Matthew 7:9} 
Congress recently approved a military budget for 2001 of $310 billion, which is $4 billion more than Clinton requested and $20 billion more than military funding for 2000. This includes $60 billion dollars on new weapons despite the vast superior­ity of U.S. weapons systems. For $60. bil­lion. we could fully fund Head Start for six years and provide health insurance for all 11 million uninsured children in the U.S. 
The U.S. presently spends 18 times as much on military spending as it does on foreign diplomacy, international assis­tance and support for international insti­tutions. If the budgets for foreign policy and diplomacy were more in balance with the military budget, there would be a bet­ter chance of preventing conflict, avoiding military intervention and working toward a more secure world. 
The real threat to U.S. national security is the number of people who continue to live in poverty. In the U.S., 35 million peo­ple live in poverty, including 19 percent of all U.S. children. Forty-four million people are uninsured, including eleven million children. This is a consequence of federal budget priorities that spend 4 cents on health care and 6 cents on education for every 50 cents spent on the military. 
If this reality. a reality in total contradic­tion to Catholic Social Teaching, not to mention the teachings of Jesus, bothers you, it should! We are giving our children the stones of war when they need the bread of life. To learn more and to get involved in an effort to change this reality, please come to the Bread Not Stones National Catholic Campaign to redirect excessive military spending, Thursday on the South Quad from 4 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. 
Ben Peters 
graduate srudem 
oft:campus 
October 3, 2000 

Give Clinton a break 
I have had enough of Notre Dame students attacking every little thing that Bill Clinton has done in past months. The latest issue is the release of strategic oil reserves in an effort to lower prices. I was unimpressed by Sean Vinck's com­ments which seemed to mirror com­ments by other people in the news. He said it was "too little, too late" and that Clinton released· the oil with the upcoming elections in mind and that his lack of an energy policy caused this sudden problem. Gee, I've heard Clinton critics on televi­sion saying that too. 
When will everybody just let Clinton's presidency ride out? When can we all just let him slip into his­tory and stop complaining about everything he has done, hasn't done or may have done? Did it ever occur to anyone that Clinton might have released the reserve with the well­being of the American people in mind? Can't we just stop thinking politically for a minute? Why does everything that Clinton does in his last few months in office have to benefit Al Gore's campaign in some way? When will everybody realize that Clinton has done nothing to put this country in worse standing than it was when he took office? 
Vinck's statement that Clinton's incoherent energy policy is to blame for the sudden crisis is not easily backed up. If his lack of an energy policy was such a problem, why did it take until the very end of his pres­idency for a crisis like this to occur? Crises like these do not take this long to develop. 
I think it is time for everyone to stop complaining about Clinton and focus more on the upcoming elec­tion. Please everyone, I ask that you just leave Bill Clinton alone for a few more months. Then you won't have to worry about him anymore. 
Patrick Depew 
sophomore Stanford Hall October 2; 2000 

I N E T 
page 12 Wednesday, October 4, 2000 

Classes could bring srniles, reduce strt~ss on campus 
College is when we are really supposed to get to study about what we arc most interested in in lil'e. Hopefully we will like what we am studying more and more and then be able to make a living doing what wo love to do. For me, I often feel too busy to enjoy what I am studying. 
I think there is some room for classes at 
Notre Dame tha,t enrich lives just by being there, and not contributing to our stress lev­els in any way, just fun and simple. 
llypnotism Class-In almost evliry situation hypnotism could come in handy. The final ex.am could be 1.hat each student has get the professor to do something really ridiculous. If you could hypnotize anyone. you could always get whatever you want. 


Why isn't this a mandatory core class Scott Little already'' We could learn how to hypnotize our future boss,es into giving us raises, our future spouses into doing the dishes and our future dogs into dancing. 
Practical Joke Class: I remember seeing some list of the 15 strongest desires in humans. Vengeance was one of them. And so was humor. This wouldn't just be stink bombs and itching pow­der. This would be rats in the cafeteria and missing statues. The students that took this class would be masters at giving people just what they deserve. 
Energy Class: This class would be for all the hippies on cam­pus. They would be chained to big wheels and then walk around in a circle generating energy for the University. Although not a lot of learning would be going on, they would be helping the envi­ronment and ND would be teaching them the all important value of standing up for what you believe in. 
Monkey Business Class: This class would be a big room about the size of' Debartolo 101, and it would be a room full of wild monkeys. Students would go in for an hour every other day and copy what the monkeys do and try to become friends with the monkeys. This class would probably be in the Anthropology department. I think it would help us learn a little bit more about who we arc because we are physiologically so close to monkeys anyway. 
Thrill Seekers Class: This class would be sky diving, bungee jumping, hot air balloon rides, sleeping with snakes and stuff like that. Again, this. is not education in a traditional sense, but I think it would help students to build their characters, something that ND is already known for. With this new class we would be unsurpassable. 
Messy Fun Cln.ss: This class would be different ways to make a mess. and then you do it. It would help engage the creative parts of students' minds. 
Carnival Studies: Students taking this course would learn the history of carnivals and circuses, the development of amusement parks and fairs. There would be a lot of guest speakers, and for a final project. students would have their own carnival and invite everyone on campus! 
/\nimal Riding Class: This class would have a different animal every class period and then students would write papers about which animal was there favorite ride. This would help students to learn about tne world of animals and ergonomics. 
Massage & Tickle Class: Tickling other people has helped me with some of my greatest personal successes in life. I think the art oi' tickling should be explored more, and what a great time to learn. It would be a great way to meet people, and a good time is guaranteed. The massage part would help everyone relax more on campus. 
Stain Removal Class: This would be for chemists and anyone else. There arc a lot of chemicals that go into stain removal. Students would learn how to take the stains out of all fabrics, no matter what the stain agent was. 
Classes like this would make us all smiley-er and it would put us up even higher apart from other college grads. 
The views expressed in this column are those oflhe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
'Paid to surf' Web sites 
Learn the ups and downs of earning fre 
By MERIDETH PIERCE 
Scene ~'riter 

If you arc like most Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students, you spend at least 10 hours online a week. This online time counts the Internet, writing and receiving e-mails, or talking on the ever-addictive Instant Messenger. 
Wouldn't you like to be paid to do exactly that -:---be online at your computer and get money to do whatever you would normally do? That "too good to be true" idea is behind many of the growing "paid to surf' Web sites. You might ask, what is a "paid to surf" Web site? Where are they? Which are worth while? 
"Paid to surf' Web sites range in organi­zation. methods of payment. requirements and rules. Yet there are a few underlying ground rules for all of them. The basic idea is that you aflow a "paid to surf' program to run a small ad window at the bottom or top of your screen. 
This ad window has required software that must be downloaded from the Web site. Ads are ·then displayed on the window as you are online. But this window is usu­ally less than an inch tall and can be turned off at any time. 
The "paid to surf' program gets paid for running these ads and 
in turn pays you to 
ever have to fill anything out. view them. And if' you cannot find their 
Most Web sites rec­
privacy statement, the site is 

ommend that you occa­not worth it. sionally click on the ads Now to the bottom line: llow that interest you and much MONEY can you get? It see what they have to all depends on the Web site. offer, claiming you will 
Some pay by the hour, some find great deals by by a percentage, and some doing this. even pay through sweepstake
Besides picking up a chances. few bucks by being 
Courtesy of Jotter com Hou r I y ratCs range f'r Om 
online, you can also multiply your earnings by referring others to sign up. You then earn a set amount for all the time your friends spend online, as well as money for the time their own refer­rals are online. 
PaidtoSurf.com is a site that explains and reviews the trend of earning money while surfing the Internet. The Web site claims that "many. people are making hundreds, and some arc making thousands of dollars every month" through these sites. But claims like these may leave you skeptical. 
Maoy questions arise about "paid to surf" Web sites. Does this gimmick cost anything to set up? The answer for all sites is no. All you have to do to sign up is download soft­ware for the ad window, and then share some information with the site. 
In general these programs do not share personal information, but they do share broad demo­graph­i C info r ­mation w i t h 0 U t ­s i d e adver­tisers. If this causes 


C O 11 ­
cern, y O U can refer to each program's privacy state­
ment. easily found before you 

between 20 and 70 cents for each hour you surf. f'rom eight to ten cents for the time your referrals surf, and two to five cents for your indirect referrals. 
Although this may not sound like much, suppose you are getting paid the average 
Got a favorite band? 
A favorite song? Scene is looking for music 
•
reviewers. 
Call 1-4540 or visit the basement ofSDH. 

I N 
C 
E T 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 page 13 
too good to be true or too good to pass up? 
oney online from sites like DesktopDollars, ClickDough and Al/Advantage 
amount for all payments. If you refer five peo­ple to the Web site and they in lurn refer only three, your rheck will he over $330 a month for spending only six hours a week online! 
By far the best "paid to surf" site is lJesktopDollars.com. Although the homepage is chock-full of links and information, it is still easy to follow and provides all the essential information. To start earning money on DesktopOollars.com, you must join and down­load their ad banner -the "PHOFITzone." Then your payment begins. 
The amount you earn on DesktopDollars.com depends on the amount of ads you view while connected to the Internet. 
This is 
a ben­
e f i t 
o v e r other p r o ­grams where y O U have to be active­I y 

rsonal Profit Net1t10rk 

Courtesy ol ClickDough.com surf ­
ing on 

t h e Internet. With DesktopDollars.com you can be working on a paper and get paid as long as you are online and the ads are running in your sight. 
The payment rate for DesktopDollars.com is 45% of the amount the Web site earns to run the ad in the first place. But with extra referrals you can earn up to 70% the amount DesktopDollars.com receives. Other perks for this site include monthly giveaways of $25,000 and a $250 bonus each week for the top earners. 
The payment plan for DesktopDollars.com is one of the best available. Payment that depends on the company's revenue is a better deal then a fixed rate for the subscribers. 
When Web sites with fixed rates increase their revenue, you still only receive the same amount of money. But when sites like DesktopDollars.com increase their revenue, so do you. 
Many other pro­grams have stricter referral restrictions. On some Web sites, if you viewed 1000 ads and your referral viewed 5000 ads, you would only be paid for the 1000 ads you saw. For DesktopDollars. com, however, you are paid for any amount. 
Still sound too good to be true? In some cases, it just might be. All sites range in their perks, their agreements, their payments, and above all their definition of "being online". Discrepancies and loopholes can leave much room for scamming. 
The top rival for DesktopDollars.com is Jotter.com, according to AboutPaidtoSurf.com. 
Grab, Your Friends,
Surf the Web 
Stuff Your Wallet 
Despite the high ranking, Jotter.com is confusing for new visitors. Information about payment rates and the benefits of Jotter.com over other sites is hard to find. 
The Jotter.corn site offers an overwhelming amount of information on its ad banner. Virtually everything on the banner can be tailored to your tastes, including the bar's skin. The bar I equipped with search engine, reminder service, storage for your favorite places, a media player, quick e-mail access, stock update ticker, news service, and -of course -a large, continually-changing ad banner. 
For as much information t h a t Jotter.com gives on its ad banner, there is absolutely no informa­tion on the site about how you are paid. Despite Yahoo.com declaring it the "Swiss Army Knife of the Internet," Jotter.com earns a big zero for lack of information on the site's purpose -paying you. 
Another problem with "paid to surf" sites arise when you are required to give all your personal information before you can even access the home­page. One site with this problem is highly-ranked 
ClickDough.com. 
ClickDough.com pays in a percentage like Desktop­Dollars.com, but its percentage of pay­ment is considerably lower. ClickDough's advantage is that it allows for eight gen­erations of referrals. This means that if you are online for two hours a week, and refer two people who 
in turn refer two more -and this continues for eight generations of refer­rals -then your monthly check will be $150 a month. 
Unlike DcsktopDollars, you have to be onlinc for ClickDough's payment to be in effect. However you need not download anything to earn money because 

Courtesy of ClickDough.com 

ClickDough.com is one site that is run right through the Internet. 
Completely different from percentagely paid sites is AllAdvantage.com. Founded in 1999, AllAdvantage gained over· five million customers in less than eleven months. Originally a pay-by-the­hour site, AIIAdvantage.com now pays with chances to win large amounts of money. 
Like most sites, you must provide personal infor­mation which is "never sold" and then you can download the ad banner, called the AIIAdvantage Viewbar. 
T h e 
AllAdvantage Viewbar is larger than other ad banners ­about 2 inch­es high across the length of the screen -but it offers a variety of p e r k s besides con­tinual ads. 

There is a direct search page condensed on the bar, in addi­tion to a menu option that stores links to your favorite sites. Before you even download the Viewbar you can view a "Viewbar demo" which is linked to the homepage. 
Unlike the rest of the reviewed sites, AllAdvantage does not pay you by the hour. Instead it gives out one daily prize of about $50,000. All you have to do is surf the Web for at least five minutes a day and one entry is automatically filled out for you. You receive another entry for each additional five minutes online. 
Referrals work slightly different for Al!Advantage as well. If one of your referrals wins the grand prize for the day, you will win a portion of that amount. There are also random monthly prizes that run from $10 to $1,000. 
With dozens of services out there, the "paid to surf' idea will not fade away any time soon. The promises of large amounts of money for little to no work are enticing and worthwhile to investigate. 
Some other sites of interest are AllCommunity.com, GetPaid4.com, PaidforSurf.com, SurfAd.com and UtopiAD.com. Each Web site offers a variety of different features and options, and all it takes is a little time to find the one that suits you. So for all those online junkies, check it out -it just might be too good to pass up. 


Courtesy of AIIAdvantage.com 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 4, 2000 
AMERICAN LEAGUE PLAYOFFS 
White Sox give game away to Mariners 
A.sodated Prc:ss 
CIIICAGO 
After making the most of their 

chances during the regular sea­
son. the White Sox fell victim to 
wasted opportunities in their 
playoff opener. 
Chicago let its best chance to win slip away in the ninth. With the winning run on second and one out, Jose Valentin and Magglio Ordonez flied out, leav­ing the door open for Seattle to break through in the 10th to win 7-4 Tuesday. 
Four times, the White Sox advanced a runner to third with less than two outs. All four times, the major league's highest-scor­ing team failed lo drive those runners in. 
As a result. Chicago is still in search of iL'l first pnstc,eason vic­tory at home since 1959 and needs a win Wedne:;dav to avoid ahead to Seattle down 2-0 in the best-of-five series. 
"We had the opportunities early to knock them out and we didn't," said Frank Thomas, who left the bases loaded in the fourth and stranded four runners. 
"A lot of young guys made mis­takes. Guys were keyed up.... I tried to do too much -trying to hit home runs when all you needed were singles." 
Thomas, who led the White Sox with a .328 average, 43 homers and 143 RBIs this sea­son. finished O-for-3 with two walks. 
In the ninth. a bloop single by Charles Johnson leading off brought a rare sellout crowd of 45,290 at Comiskey Park to its feet. Hay Durham advanced him to second with a sacrifice bunt. 
But Valentin flied to left and Mesa walked Thomas intention­ally after going 2-0 to the poten­tial AL MVP. 
With the chance to end it, Ordonez hit the first pitch for a routine nyout to right. 
Moments later, Keith Foulke 
gave up back-to-back homers to 
Edgar Martinez and John Olerud 
in the decisive 10th. 
"I just threw a bad changeup (to Martinez) and it's one of those occasions where you pay for it," said Foulke, who had nine saves and a 0.75 ERA from Sept. 1 through the end of the regular season. 

Chicago missed an early chance to blow open the game after it loaded the bases with one out in the fourth. Singles by Herbert Perry and Charles Johnson and a walk to Ray Durham helped knock out starter Freddy Garcia. 
But Brett Tomko came in to squelch it, getting Valentin and Thomas to fly out. 
In the sixth, with runners at first and third and one out after a walk to Perry and a Johnson sin­gle, Seattle shortstop Alex llodriguez dived to his left to grab Durham's hard grounder up the middle, then nipped to Mark Mclemore at second to start an inning-ending double play. 
Chicago manager Jerry Manuel blamed playoff jitters in part for his young team's failure to deliv­er in the clutch. 
"We had some opportunities to really put the ballgame away and basically we just didn't get the job done," he said. "They made the key pitches at the right time ... (and) we might have been little impatient in those situations. That's a part of the youth that we have. 
"But I think for the most part that we played a decent ball­game for our first game being in an atmosphere such as this, and 1think we'll be fine." 
Chicago had 133 errors in the regular season -fourth-most in the AL -but got unexpected standout defense, including Ray Durham's sparkling over-the­shoulder grab of Joe Oliver's fly to short right in the fourth. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Brees, Randle El terrorize Big I 0 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS 
Purdue's Drew Brees and Indiana's Antwaan Randle El seem about as opposite as the two coasts while playing in the s a m e 
state. 
Brees has the record­setting numbers. t h e lleisman hype and 


thrives in Brees 
t h C 

Boilermakers' pass-happy 
offense. 

Randle El flashes the fleet 
feet, the spinning moves and is 
the most dangerous weapon in 
the Hoosiers' blue-collar 
option attack. 

Both pose big concerns for 
opposing defenses. But which 
player creates more 
headaches? 

"I couldn't choose between 
them because I think they're 
equally difficult to defend." 
Michigan coach Lloyd Carr 
said. "What would be ideal . would be to have Indiana and Purdue off the schedule." If only the Wolverines were so fortunate. 
Instead, Michigan faces a 
worst-case dilemma -playing 
Brees on Saturday and Handle 
El next. 

It's not a task Carr. or any other Big Ten coach, relishes. 
"Oooohhh," Wisconsin coach Barry Alvarez said, wrinkling his nose as he explains who he'd rather face. "Both guys are very talented, but the schemes are totally different. Brees is so good, you hate to play against him, and Randle El is a combination guy. I real­ly don't like to play either one." 
Alvarez, whose teams have won the last two Rose Bowls, calls them the two toughest players to defend in the Big Ten. period. 
The statistics attest to that. 
Brees. a 6-foot-1, 220-pound senior, has shattered school records for attempts, comple­tions. touchdown passes and total offense during the past 2 1/2 years. 
This weekend, against Michigan, Brees needs just 178 yards to surpass Mark Herrmann as the Boilermakers' career leader in passing yardage, giving him every major career record at a school that's produced such prominent quarterbacks as Bob Griese, Gary Danielson. Mike Phipps. Herrmann and Jim Everett. 
He also holds Big Ten records for attempts and com­pletions, and his next touch­down will break Chuck Long's conference record for touch­down passes (74). 
But Brees' greatest attribute isn't measured in numbers. 
"Drew is going to get the ball off real quick, and he Any time he has the ball in his hands, you have problems." 
On Saturday, Handle El became the sixth player in NCAA history to rush for more than 2.000 yards and pass for more than 4,000. 
He's also on pace to become only the second player in NCAA history to account for more than 200 points both rushing and passing. 
"It lets you know you can't sleep," said Badger corner­back Jamar Fletcher, an All­American. "He can drop back and get out of the gates and hit you for a 20-or 30-yard play." 
And, if dealing with a break­away threat at quarterback wasn't tough enough. Randle El has developed his passing game, too. 
In the last nine-plus games, Randle El has thrown just two interceptions, compared with 15 touchdown passes. 
''I'd definitely say Handle El 
is tougher to 
defend 

makes smart "/ think it's really a because he decisions," does so much
matter ofpick your 
Michigan m o r e , " State corner­poison. Fletcher said. back Renaldo "He's like a lit­Hill said. "He tle jitterbug.
Lloyd Carr 
puts the ball He can run. he
Michigan football coach
in places you think you've got covered. Plus, he can run. If there's any breakdown. he makes you pay for it." 
So does Randle El. 
The Hoosiers quarterback, a junior, stands just 5-foot-10 and weighs 194 pounds, tiny by Big Ten standards. But his contributions have been big time. 
He has not missed a start in 2 1/2 seasons, and along with Brees. began the fall on the 30-player list for the Davey O'Brien Award, which honors the nation's top quarterback. 
"You always have to be aware of where he is," Alvarez said. "He'll create problems. 
can throw, he 
can throw on 
the run, he can do it all." 
Fletcher and other defend­ers claim Brees is a surpris­ingly good runner himself, and that no matter what a defense devises or what conditions he encounters, Brees still some­how finds a way to beat you. 
Carr believes the only good thing about facing either quar­terback is the motivation it provides. 
"Everybody that plays against them that week. the defenses get excited," Carr said, smiling. 'They all know what they're playing against. 
"I think it's really a matter of pick your poison." 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
thanks jen, rnissy, col and far for a  matt and anthony --how are my  
great time.  new york kings doing?  
LOST & FOUND  TICKETS  FOR RENT  FOR SALE  hey kiflin  Wednesday night off, I CANNOT  
SPRII\IG BREAK 200 I  Jamaica,  remember the scrumptious one.  WAIT.  
WANTED  Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring  
LOST CAMERA IN BLAC-< CASE  ND FOOTBALL TKTS  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  Campus Reps  2 Free Trips! Free  hint: red pants  Kate, I miss ya work isn't the same  
IN THE HAMMES BOOKSTORE  289-9260  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Meals-Book by 11/3. Cati 1-800­ with you or ... UH-HUH!  
ON MONDAY, 9!25. PLEASE CALL  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  426-7710 or sunsplashtours.com.  time alter time:  
BARBARA HUTSON AT  ernail:mmmrentals@aol. corn  i'rn here too late  by the way,  
1-732-257-0881  SELLING  232-2595  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  that means not enough sleep  thanks for the quote of the day,  
CALL COLLECT  ND FOOTBALL TKTS  with orthopedic mattress set and  they always make me laugh.  
251-1570  ThatPretty Place, Bed and  deluxe frame. All new, never used,  countdown to fall break:  
Breakfast Inn has space available  still in pJastic. $235. 219-862-2082.  9 days  25,600 hours in a year  
NOTICES  VICTORY TKTS  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths,  1992 CHEVY LUMINA, GREAT  snow in South Bend  why disclose your feelings when  
BUY-SELL•TRADE  $80-$115,  CONDITION. $3,500; 272-4776.  you can never see the person?  
COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS  ND FOOTBALL  Middlebury,  sun in Orlando  
300,000+ private sector scholar­ 232-0964  30 miles from campus.  '93 Olds Ciera, 87k, showroom con­ this is why so many  
ships available for underg1aduate  www.victory1ickets.com  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­ dition (no rust}, needs nothing,  i'rn going to disneyworld  staffers are single •·  
and graduate students at accredit­ 9487.  $3600/obo. 272-8333.  no time to have a life.  
ed colleges in the USA repardless  BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  well close anyway  
of GPA,  273-3911  3, 4 & 5-bedroom alumni-owned  Tutoring needed in  not when you're here every night  
finance,  homes tor rent.  Win2000/Network-MCSE.  back to winning ways on Saturday?  instead of at the bars  
age  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  Please call Jason @ 240-0322 for  Please call 277-4443.  
or citizenship  A.M.  232-2378  homes close to campus.  Carrie --can't wait for your place  duh, who reads these anyways?  
Write or Call for FREE information  P.M.  288-2726  Thursday night.  
and application  so your friends will know ... big  
SCHOLARSHIP DATABA3E SER­ ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. 232-2378  WANTED  PERSONAL  Gipo's corning!  deal.  
VICE  P.M.  288-2726  Gipo's corning to the states!  they're laughing at this right now.  
PO Box 432  High-Speed Copies, Color Copies,  
Notre Dame, Indiana 465!',6-0432  Dad needs 2 tix to Stanford game!  WILL BUY USED CARS  Binding, Fax Service, R ;asurnes,  wait until you see Heartland, Gipo.  well, not NOW now,  
Bardyard896J@tiotmail com  Ckrosey@mindspring.com  CALL 272-4776.  Business Cards, laminating &  but when they read them NOW.  
1-800-936-3706  More!  you'll never want to leave Indiana.  
2 ND/USC Tix + Airfare  at  that's what I like to call "DUH."  
THE COPY SHOP  GOTO alurnni.nd.edu/-ndc_satc  Shift Mgr  THE COPY SHOP  who needs Italy when you've got  
LaFortune Student Center  University Park Mall  LaFortune Student Center  Heartland and ND tailgating?  who'd you rather ... sets up some  
Store Hours  FOR SALE, FOOTBALL TICKETS,  Auntie Anne's Pretzels  Phone 631-COPY  good matches for the SYS  
Mon-Thurs: 7:30 a.rn.-Midnight  ALL GAMES  up to $8,  Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  Joe, your barbeque man misses  
Fri: 7:30 a.m.-7:00 p.rn.  272-7233  20-30 hrs,  you.  Hey Inferno quad  
Sat: Noon-6:00 p.m.  call Pat or Kathy  go see rent!  I mis you all.  
Sun: Noon-Midnight  NEED: 4 Stanford tickets for family.  219-271-8740  perk up, things will get better,  
PHONE 631-COPY  Call John, 4-2795.  6 more pullouts  karaoke.  Yes, no more space! Goodnight!  

Wednesday, October 4, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NATIONAL LEAGUE PLAYOFFS 
La Russa defends pitching decision 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

There were no apologies from Cardinals manager Tony La Russa, a day after his playoff ruse. 
La Russa sent 20-game winner Darryl Kile, who will start Game 2, to the inter­view room on Mondav so rookie Rick Ankiel could escape media attention. 
The 21-year-old Ankiel made his first career post­seas on start in Game 1, 
becoming the first pitcher in 110 years to throw five wild pitches i.n one inning or a major league game. Still, t h e Cardinals won 7-5. 
La Russa pointed out before the 
"Huery time I said we were keeping our 

options open. Ifyou 
paid attention, you would have seen the signals that things were not settled. " 
Tony La Russa Cardinals manager 
opener that Kile never men­tioned that he'd be pitching in Game 1. 
"We didn't lie," La Russa said. "He said he was going to pitch in the series." 
It was worth taking a little heat for La Russa to keep the media glare off Ankiel. 
"The biggest reason is there was enough on Rick Ankiel whether he pitches today or Thursday," La Russa said. "He doesn't need to sit up here and have to answer a lot of questions, stuff that's getting into the way of his pitching 
"So we wanted to avoid making it tough for him. This is a big enough chal­lenge as it is." 
La Russa said he decided to send Kile to the interview room because league rules 
dictate he make a pitcher available. 
He also said he scrupulous­ly avoided announcing Kile as the Game 1 starter the last few weeks of the season. 
"Every time I said we were 

keeping our options open," La Russa said. "If you paid attention, you would have seen the signals that things were not settled." 
The only reason the switch worked out was the fact there are off days after each of the first two games. 
Without those breaks, La Russa said he'd have gone with Kile in Game 1. 
The schedule allows the Cardinals to use Kile in Game 2 and 5, if needed, on three days' rest. La Russa said Kile is the only pitcher on his staff that he· would use on short rest. 
La Russa was still holding his options open regarding a Game 3 starter, with Garrett Stephenson (16-9). Andy Benes (12-9) and Pat Hentgen (15-1 2) all in the mix. Both Benes, who pitched the regular-season finale on Sunday, and Stephenson, who threw in the bullpen on Monday, were unavailable for bullpen duty Tuesday. 
The Cardinals will go with 11 pitchers in the first round, adding rookie Britt Reames. Reliever Matt Morris, who had experi­enced shoulder discomfort his last few outings, also is· on the roster. 
Those moves mean the 
Cardinals will not have any 
left-handed batters on the 
bench, with both Thomas 
Howard and Larry Sutton 
not making the cut. 
The Braves went with 10 
pitchers instead of nine, 
adding reliever Scott 
Kamienicki and deleting 
rookie first baseman Tim 
Unroe. 

MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER PLAYOFFS 
Califf's goal sends Galaxy past Wizards 
Associated Press 
PASAOENA, Calif. 
Danny Califf scored in the third minute of sudden-death overtime to lead the Los Angeles Galaxy past the Kansas City Wizards 2-1 Tuesday night in the semifi­nals of the Major League Soccer playoffs. 
More than 20,000 people at the Rose Bowl watched Los Angeles take a 4-1 lead in points as the team heads to the decisive third game, to be held Friday night in K11;nsas City's Arrowhead Stadium. 
Each victory counts as three points, with ties worth one point. The first team to earn five points will go to MLS Cup 2000, the league final. 
If Friday night's game is tied after regulation, both teams will play two five-minute halves of sudden-death over­time. 
If neither team scores dur­ing the first set of overtime halves, Los Angeles advances to the final. If Kansas City wins, the Wizards tie the series and two 10-minute periods of sudden-death over­time will follow. 
If the series remains tied, penalty kicks will determine the outcome. 
Califf. who arrived in Los 

Angeles on Saturday after 
playing in the Olympics, 
scored off a corner kick from 
Cobi Jones. Califf beat Kansas 
City's Matt McKean by con­
verting a 7-yard header that 
bounced inside the left post. 
Jones gave Los Angeles a 1­
0 lead in the 15th minute. The 
Galaxy's Ezra Hendrickson 
eluded Kansas City defender 
Brandon Prideaux near the 
right end line and passed to 
an unmarked Jones. who con­
verted from seven yards 
inside the left post. 
McKean tied the score in the 
29th minute with a 30-yard 
free kick into the upper-left 
corner of the net. 
Kansas City's Mo Johnston 
had a chance to tie the score 
10 minutes eatlier, but Galaxy 
goalkeeper Kevin Hartman 
dived to his right to stop 
Johnston's 13-yard volley: 

Hartman made another crit­ical save in the 82nd minute by deflecting Miklos Molnar's 15-yard line drive with his · right hand. Califf then cleared 
the ball. 
Wizards goalkeeper Tony 
Meola made a crucial save in 
the 76th minute. Mauricio 
Cienfuegos' 11-yard line drive 
ricocheted off Meola's right 
foot. 

CN' CREDIT AGRICOLE INDOSIUEZ. ,.,.. ~_•',-1t.,',1,J4'~ ( --~~,,,,~1,i.r/ In.dosu.ez Capital {,.-ordial!J.• ·invif"e-s_yon ro a presenfation dist.:ussin,g. 1\.·fet.:chan.t Bankir1.g Fin.at-icial ...l\.t-ialyst Or>poru1.t-iitie.s '.-vithin the I ....e ...veraged B1..1.yout at-id Prh.rate Equity Con-i.1n.1..1nities at D·eBartolo Hall Roon-; 208 (Jniverst{y C?.t·.r,rotre l"Ja,ne Oct:ober 4, 2000 6:00 -8:00p ...n-i. Business C'asu.ul Attire  

page 16 Wednesday, October 4, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 
1 
NFL 

PanthE~rs' offensive coordinator resigns 
Associated Press 
CIIARIDTn•:, N.C. 

Bill Musgrave resigned Tuesday as Carolina's offensive coordinator, ending a four• game stint in which the Panthers' offonsc slipped into an unexpected impotency under him. 
Musgrave, 33. was in his first season as Carolina';a; offensive coordinator. I le was the quar­terbacks coach last year and helped 14-year veteran Steve Heuerlcin to the best year of his career in Lhat role. 
Beuerlein threw for an NFL­best 4,436 passing yards and earned his firsL Pro Bowl berth while leading the Panthers to the second•best passing offense in the league. 
But the Panthers have ·strug-· gled on offense this season and dropped to 1-3 with a 16-13 overtime loss to Dallas on Sunday. 
"Bill told me this morning that he felt like it was in the best interest of the team to resign," coach George Seifert said. "We met at length and I tried to convince him to stay, but I couldn't change his mind." 
The Panthers also cut kicker Richie Cunningham. who ­along with Musgrave -played a large role in their loss to Dallas. 
Tied at 13 with 6:25 lo play on Sunday. Carolina had a fourth-and-1 play at the Dallas 30. 
Because Cunningham has been so inconsistent since tak• ing over for the injured John Kasay -he's made 5-of-7 field goals -they dccidt•d not to let him try the 47-yard field goal and instead went for the lirst down. 
BeuPrlein was given two options by Musl{ravc. The first was a quarterback sneak, the second a short pass if Dallas' defense had jamml'd the line. Beuerlein called !'or the pass at the line uf scrimmage, but his throw was incomplete and Dallas took over on downs. 
289-5080 
Announces the Following Introductorv. Offers Of... 
r "ss;", r 's6i', r 'i69°',
I Cal()/ (',;l;5t,k I I ~rm, Cut I I Hiht~, & I t:;n!.!':~!!I L ~2.:e..I I;.°~;!Y:I 
Seifert took full responsibility for the play on Monday, saying he has the power to overrule any call. 
"Sncond-guessing myself, I 

would have run a different 
play," Seifert said. 
Carolina's offensive numbers 

are down this year. The 
Panthers averaged 26 points 
and 355 yards a game last 
year. 
But aside from a 38-point performance they had in a win over San t-:rancisco in Week 2, the Panthers have scored a combined 40 points in their three other games. 
Musgrave joined the Panthers last year as quarter­back coach after spending the last 1 O games of the 1998 sea­son as offensive coordinator of' the Philadelphia Eagles. lie was promoted in January when Gil Haskell left to take the same job in Seattle. 
Assistant head coach Richard Williamson will take over Musgrave's duties. 
Williamson has been with the Panthers since the team's inception in 1995 as receivers coach and has played an instrumental role in the devel­
opment of Pro Bowl receiver Muhsin Muhammad, Patrick Jeffers. and Donald Hayes as well as Haghib Ismail of the Dallas Cowboys. 
Meanwhile, the Panthers signed Joe Nedney to replace Cunningham. Nedney had been kicking for the Denver Broncos while Jason Elam was recover­ing from an injured back. 
In another move, wide receiver Dialleo Burks was waived, clearing room for punt returner lheanyi Uwaezunke, expected to sign Wednesday. 
Uwaezuoke went Lo training camp with the Panthers last season before being released and played 10 games for Detroit, where he returned 18 punts for 150 yards. 
The Panthers need Uwaczuoke because punt returner Eric Davis broke his hand and needed a cast, mak­ing him unavailable to return punts. 
Chiefs change it up at quarterback 
So who gets to have all the Associated Press 
fun against Oakland in the Chiefs' next game?
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
"I guess it will be Sylvester's
Every week during Kansas 
turn again," Gonzalez said. 
City's three-game winning 
People around the league
streak, a different receiver has have been talking about what a 
come through for the Chiefs. 

hot hand Grbac has had and 
On Monday night in a 24•17 how the Chiefs' passing attack 
victory over Seattle, it was 
has been uncharacteristically
Derrick Alexander, who caught 
overshadowing the running 
a momentum• 

game.
turning 73-yard But the multitude 

completion from 

"Getting Sylvester of weapons now at 
Elvis Grbac in Grbac's command 

the third quar­Morris was really 
must be especially
ter and finished 

a shot in the arm troubling to every
with live recep­

for all ofus." defensive unit on 
tions for 15:3 Kansas City'syards and one 

schedule. 
touchdown. Gunther Cunningham 
"That's how it's 
The week 

Chiefs' coach got to work," said 
before, in a 23­Gonzalez. who was 

22 upset at voted to the Pro 

Denver. it was tight end Tony Bowl last season. 
Gonzalez, catching 10 passes 
"In a successful offense,
for 127 yards and a touchdown. 
you've got to have players who 
The week before that, it was are all capable of being big•play
rookie wide receiver Svlvester type guys," he said. 
Morris who had six cat~hes for Morris, the Chiefs' first-round 
112 vards and three touch­pick from Jackson State, has 
downs in a 42-10 rout of San had a profound impact on the 
Diego. 

entire receiver corps. For one 
thing. he seems to be inspiring an even greater effort from Alexander. an eight•year veter­an who was always solid but is now making some of the finest catches of his career. 
"Getting Sylvester Morris was really a shot in the arm for all of us, the receivers in particu­lar," coach Gunther Cunningham said. 
The fact that three different receivers have had big games in each of the past three weeks is probably not just a coinci­dence. 
Alexander caught the game· winner against Denver, capping a last-minute, 80-yard drive, and followed his 73•yard catch Monday night with a leaping 17-yard touchdown• catch between two defenders. 
Holding it all together, in the meantime, is Grbac, the 30­year-old quarterback who was booed in the season opener but is now becoming a fan favorite. Monday night's 16-of-27 perfor­mance for 256 yards and two touchdowns and no intercep­tions lifted him to a 95.3 rating, fourth in the AFC. 


While TIAA-CREF 
invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance 
like this. 

TIAA-CREF has delivered impressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. 
In our CREF Growth Account, one of many CREF vari­able annuities, we combine active management with enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have two ways to seek out performance opportunities­helping to make your investments work twice as hard. 
This approach also allows
EXPENSE RATIO 

us to adapt our investments 

CREf GROWTH 
INDUSTRV 
ACCOUNT 
AVERAGE 
0.32%] 
2.09%2 

to different market conditions, which is especially important during volatile economic times. 


CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT3 
I• 

.26.70% 
27.87% 
26.60% 

1YEAR 
5YEARS 
SINCE INCEPTION 
.


. AS OF 6/30/00 
6/30/00 
4/29/94 

.. ... .. . ......
··•••····. 

Combine this team approach with our low expenses and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from the competition. Call and find out how TIAA-CREF can work for you today and tomorrow. 
Ensuring the future
ii 
1.800.842.2776
for those who shape it.'M 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1800 842.2733. ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. 1. TIAA-CREF expenses reflect the waiver of aportion of the Funds' investment management fees, guaranteed until July 1, 2003. 2. Source: Morningstar, Inc 6/30/00, tracking 939 average large-cap growth annuity funds. 3. Due to current market volatility, our securines product.s' performance today may be less than shown above. The investment results shown for (REF Growth variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemption.• TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities.• TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
----------------------, 
page 17

Wednesday, October 4, 2000 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


arrow 
Go to the Carnival! 
4-lOpm In Front of Rolfs 
Free Food! Free Admission! Free Rides! Gravitron, Moonwalk, Carnies ... 
What More Do You Want? 
Sponsored By:  
The Office of the Student Body President  Saint Edwards Hall ( advised)  
S.A.R.G.  Class of 200 I, 2002, 2003  
Student Activities  Coca-Cola  
WVFI  WSND  
College Democrats  Habitat for Humanity  
H.P.C.  C.C.C.  
M.S.P.S.  

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 4, 2000 
MLB PLAYOFFS 

Yan:kees continue slurnp against A's 
Associa.tcd Press 
OAKIAND, Calif, 
Even the comfort of the post­
season couldn't break the New 
York Yankees out of their deep 
funk. 
Hamon Hernandez drove in two runs, including a go-ahead double in the sixth inning off Hoger Clemens, and the Oakland Athletics defeated the struggling Yankees 5-3 Tuesday night in the opener of their play­off series. 
In a matchllp of near-oppo­sites, a small-market A's club making its first playoff appear­ance since 1992 was patient enough to outlast Clemens and a mega-rich Yankees club trying to defend Hs two straight World Series titles. 
Overpowered for the first four innings, the A's scored four times in the fifth and sixth oIT a tiring Clemens -he threw 111 pitches in his six innings -and_ then held on to take a 1-0 lead in Lhe best-of-Jive AL division series. 
The Yankees stumbled into the playoffs this year, ending the regular season with a seven­game losing streak -the worst skid ever for a team entering Lhe postscason -and 15 losses in their final 18 games. 
They hoped the postseason would provide a panacea ­after all, they had won 18 of Lheir previous 19 postseason games heading into this series, including a record-matching 12 straight World Series victories. 
The slump prompted Yankees owner George Steinbrenner to issue a statement earlier in the day about his team. 
"Tired? Yeah, maybe. Struggling? Yeah, maybe. But scared'? ... That word ain't even in our vocabulary," he said. 
The A's, on the other hand, won eight of their last 10 regu­lar-season games to overtake Seattle for the AL West title, clinching the di\, ision title on the iinal day. Their 21-7 record in September was best in the major leagues. 
Journeyman Gil Heredia, making the first postseason start of his nine year major league career, allowed three runs on seven hits in six innings for the win. 
Jeff Tam and Jim Mecir com­bined for two scoreless innings of relief and Jason lsringhausen got three outs for his first post­season saVl'l. 
The Yankees had only three hil'l in the last seven innings. 
Clemens, who now has a 3-4 record in 13 postseason starts, allowed !'our runs on seven hits in six innings. 
The Yankees took their first lead in a week when consecu­tive HBI doubles by Luis Sojo and Scott Brosius gave New York a 2-0 lead in the second inning. That broke New York's streak of 63 innings without a lead. 
Clemens struck out five and allowed only one hit, an infield single by Terrnnce Long, in the first four innings. But the A's finally broke through in the fifth. 
Hernandez and Randy Velarde had RBI singles and another run scored on a wild pitch by Clemens, giving the A's a 3-2 lead. A questionable play by New York second baseman Luis Sojo, a defensive replace­ment for Chuck Knoblauch, hurt the Yankees in the inning. 
With runners on first and sec­ond and no outs, Long hit an easy grounder to Sojo. Instead of throwing to second for a force or tagging Hernandez on his way to second, Sojo threw to first and the return throw to second was too late to get Hernandez -who scored three batters later on the wild pitch. 
The Yankees tied it at 3 in the sixth on a sacrifice fly by Tino Martinez. 
Oakland regained the lead in its half or the inning on two-out singles by Eric Chavez and Jeremy Giambi and the RBI double by Hernandez. Giambi 
also  tried  to  score  on  
Hernandez's  hit,  but  was  
thrown out at home.  

Oakland made it 5,3 in the eighth when Miguel Tejada sin­gled, moved up on a wild pitch by Mike Stanton and scored on a single by Chavez. 

Musicians: 
'Would you fike to perfonn at tlie cCosing 6runcli ofJunior Parents Weekend2001? 
'The JT'W Txecutive Committee is Cooking for tafentedmusicians, sucli asyiano. vf.o{in, f(ute, arufguitaryfayers (other instruments afso welcome) to _perform on :February 18, 2001. 
Ifinterestea,pCease can.tact :Mariah at 4-2607 or via emai{at Gitfef1@nd.et:lufor more informatian arufto sclied"u{e an audition. 
Giants look to World Series 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO 
Jeff Kent smiled and. joked. Ile made fun of somebody's hat. When asked why he liked playing for Dusty Baker. he praised his manag­er's ..really cool wristbands." 
It was clear San Francisco's intense second baseman was in an unusually playful mood as the Giants prepared for Wednesday's start of their NL playoff series against the New York M~ts, his former team. 
That's why it was difficult to tell how serious Kent actu­ally was when he talked about how much a champi­onship would mean to him. 
"I put so much effort into 
playing this game as a team, that if we win the d a n g W o r Id Series, you might not see me playing next year," said Kent, an NL MVP candidate 

"/ put so much effort into Arizona. They won. then
playing this game as 
were eliminat­
a team, that ifwe win ed 4-2 by 
the dang World Series, Atlanta in the NL champi­
you might not see me 
onship series. playing next year.'' This year, the Mets clinched the
Jeff Kent 
wild card with
Giants' cleanup hitter 
and the Giants' cleanup hit­ter, 
"That's how valuable win­ning the championship is for me. I'd trade just about all my valuable possessions just to be there. I would trade everything I have, because that's what you work for when you're an athlete is to be No. 1. ... I could be No. 1 with the championship ring and the championship trophy on my fireplace." 
Whether Kent was kidding or not, the stakes in this series clearly are high. Game 1 on Wednesday features 1997 World Series hero Livan Hernandez pitching for the Giants against Mike Hampton. Both teams began the season expecting lengthy postseason runs, but one won't get there. 
The Giants finished with baseball's best record and coasted into the postseason, while New York, making the playoffs in consecutive sea­sons for the iirst time, had a chance to catch its collective breath this fall. 
Last season, the Mets were forced to win a wild card tiebreaker playoff in Cincinnati before advancing to playoffs against 
four games to 
spare and got 
their top play­ers as much rest as possible N especially catcher Mike Piazza, who was injured last October. 
The Mets' star is a career .210 hitter in the postseason, and many think it's because of the wear and tear he endures over a season of catching. 
But manager Bobby Valentine judiciously rested Piazza this season with an eye toward the playoffs. 
Piazza said he's !'airly healthy this October, even though "my body actually looks like an old banana." 
His .231 average in September notwithstanding, Piazza feels ready for the rig­ors of postseason play. 
"All of us have worked hard and we've got some war wounds. but we're ready to go," he said. "We've had some time to recuperate, and it's all even from here on out." 
Piazza and Barry Bonds, a career .200 postseason hit­ter, aren't the only players looking to shake October slumps. Hampton. who said he sees no significance in his 9-0 career record against the Giants, hasn't won in three previous playoff appear­ances. 
New York manager Bobby Valentine said Hampton's success against San Francisco was a primary rea­son he got the first start over Al Leiter. 
''I've never seen him in a fight, but he can compete," Valentine said of llampton. "He does well in the battle." 
It also helps that Hampton is a left-hander. San Francisco went just 19-20 against lefty starters, though neither team puts much stock in that statistic. 
Baker isn't scared by the Mets' left-handed look with Hampton followed by Leiter in Game 2. Marvin Benard and J.T. Snow N two Giants who struggle against lefties N will be in Baker's starting lineup on Wednesday. 
''I'm just going with the best team I think that we can field for the first game," Baker said. 

~ _~~~~(Q)IfJJffe\Ib ~ffe\IF~Jf'V 
m ~~IlIMJ~ ~~~W~~Jfll@~ 
~~~TU~@ 
RIDR NOTRE DAME 8c ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 


PRESENTED BY Q,MUS PROPERTY INVESTMENTS & THE SOUTH BEND POLICE DEPARTMENT 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2000 
LOCATION AT 600 BLOCK OF NORTH ST. PETER STREET SOUTH OF SOUTH BEND AVENIUE 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED STARTING AT 5:00 PM HAMBURGERS/ HOT DOGS/ CHIPS & SODA 
EETlNG WJLL START PROMPTLY AT 5:30 PM SEATING IS LIMITED 
::Jl$~otJFf2ii'irJA~I~L,r:':·.•<:::12-j;j 


Wednesday, October 4, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NATIONAL LEAGUE PLAYOFFS 
Cardinals cling to victory in postseason duel with Braves 

is'sues. ·· In f~ct•h: in a shorttotiio brandro'f'd(vers\ty ... ·· odelJor cqllabgf 
yii;p\iment' . sol 
·-.·-;h 
/:\:r' 
cerningJh~••·• an health invariabl ·. ··· 
···~~kpo~frt
ayJh .. .sity~ 
. i9 ·.....··. . . 
.. 
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS 
The Cardinals opened the playoffs with a wild 'vvin, beating the bum­bling Atlanta Braves despite the most out-of-control pitching in the major leagues in more than a centu­ry. 
Rick Ankiel. a surprise Game 1 starter for St. Louis, became the first pitcher in 110 years to throw five wild pitches in one inning, but St. Louis held on to a six-run, first­inning lead and beat the Braves 7-5 Tuesdav. 
With the help of two errors and a fly ball center fielder Andruw .Jones apparently lost in the sun, St. Louis got its first five batters on in the first against Greg Maddux, who dropped to 10-11 in postseason play. 
Placido Polanco, who went 3-for-4, hit a two-run single as the Cardinals. tied a postseason record for runs in the opening inning. Jim Edmonds added a home run in the fourth. 
Atlanta made three errors in' all, contributing to two unearned runs. just two days after Chipper Jones' ninth-inning error cost the defend­ing NL champions home-field advan­tage in the first round. 
Mike James relieved Ankiel and got the final out of the third, then pitched two more innings for the win. Dave Veres worked the ninth for the save, allowing an RBI single to Brian Jordan, who had three hits. 
After a day off Wednesday, the series resumes with Darryl Kile pitching for St. Louis against Tom Glavine in a matchup of the NL's only 20-game winners, then travels to Atlanta for the weekend. 
Ankiel, a 21-year-old rookie, origi­nally was to pitch later in the series, but Cardinals manager Tony La Russa made the switch Monday. 
Given the 6-0 lead, he stumbled in 
the third and became 
only the· second pitcher 
in major league history 
to throw five wild pitches 
in an inning. On Sept. 15, 
1890, Bert Cunningham 
did it for Buffalo of the 
Players League in the 
first inning of the second 
game of a doubleheader. 
All but one of Ankiel's 
wild pitches were fast­
balls, most of them high 
over the head of catcher 

..

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

HOLY CROSS MISSION IN PHOENIX 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Where: When: Time: 
Contact Person: Rev. John Herman, C.S.C. Applications Available at the CSC 
Center for Social Concerns Thursday, October 5, 2000 
7:30 pm 
Carlos Hernandez. The fifth was a 
curve that bounced about five feet in 
front of the plate. 
Hernandez also made a leaping 
grab to prevent what would have 
been another. 
Ankiel, scheduled to pitGh again in 
Came 4 on Sunday, threw 12 wild 
pitches in 175 regular-season 
innings. More than half (34)" of his 
66 pitches Tuesday were balls. 
Maddux lasted four innings, giving 
up seven runs -five earned -and 
nine hits. 
Atlanta was just 3-for-13 with 
runners in scoring position, while St. 
Louis was 3-for-15. 
Mark McGwirc, limited to one 
plate appearance per game because 
of knee pain, pinch hit in the eighth 
and was intentionally walked by 
Kerry Ligtenberg. 
St. Louis, which took a 3-1 lead 
against Atlanta in the 1996 NL 
championship series and then lost 
three straight, quickly got ahead. 
Fernando Vina reached on an 
infield single leading off, J.D. Drew 
singled and Edmonds' fly ball 
dropped next to Andruw Jones as 
the game's first run scored. 
• Will Clark's single made it 2-0 and Ray Lankford reached when his grounder bounced off the glove of third baseman Chipper Jones, allow­ing another run to score. 
After a sacrifice and an intentional 
walk, Placido Polanco hit a two-run 
single to center and advanced to 
second when Andruw Jones' throw 
home hit the mound. 
Catcher Paul Bako allowed anoth­
er run to score when he threw wild­
ly to second, trying to catch Polanco 
going for the extra base. 
The third was even wilder. 
Ankiel opened the inning with a 
four-pitch walk to Maddux, then 
threw a fifth ball before getting a 
visit from pitching coach Dave 
Duncan. 
La Russa didn't start warming up 
a reliever until Brian Jordan. the 
sixth batter of the inning, hit an RBI 
single. 
Andruw Jones scored on the first 
wild pitch, Jordan hit an RBI single, 
and Walt Weiss had a two-run sin­
gle. 
Cardinals rookie Britt Reames, an unexpected member of the postsea­son staff, escaped a bases-loaded jam in the seventh when he got Reggie Sanders on a popout and pinch-hitter Bobby Bonilla on a groundout. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 4, 2000 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Twin.s sign manager Kelly to one-year contract extension 
The Twins' payroll this sea­Pohlad also initiated talks Twins' training camp in Fort expects Ryan to be retained,
Associated Press 

son was a major-league low Tuesday with general manager Myers, Fla. Twins chief execu­but the final decision is Terry Ryan, who was at the tive officer Chris Clouser Pohlad's. 

$15.8 million.
MINNEAPOLIS 
"We've made the team better
Tom Kelly agreed Tuesday to 
one time, two times," Kelly
a one-year contract extension 
said. ''I'd like to make it better 
to return for a 15th season as 
one more time. It's a chal­
manager of the Minnesota 
lenge. Do you accept it or go
Twins. 
somewhere where they give
Kelly, who has the longest 
players $80 million to play?"
tenure of any major league 
Though few have questioned
manager, led the Twins to 
Kelly's ability to manage, some
World Series titles in 1987 and 
players raised doubts as to
1991, but in recent years has 
whether he was the right man
led Minnesota through eight 
to handle the youthful Twins.
straight losing seasons. 
Doug Mientkiewicz, a U.S.
lie met for nearly three 
hero at the Olympic Games,
hours Tucsclay with Twins 
said his stint with the Twins 
owner Carl Pohlad before the 
was like "walking on
extension was announced. 
eggshells." Todd Walker, the
"I said I wanted to manage 
Twins' top pick in 1 tJ96, strug­
at least one more year, maybe 
gled under Kelly and criticized 
not more than that." Kelly 
the way he handled young
said. ''I've been managing a 
players.
long time. 
"I think
Some say too 
Kelly can go

long, but I "He /Tom Kelly} is without 
to the
don't think 

a doubt one ofthe finest extreme when
so." 
he talks about

managers in tlze game
Kelly, 50, 
what a guy

has guided today and we are 
can or can't
the Twins 

extremely pleased to have do," Walker
since Sept. 
said after he

him leading our club. " 
12, 1986, 
was traded to
when he 
Colorado in
replaced Hay 

Carl Pohlad J u I y
Miller. 

Twins' owner "Especially
"Ile is 
what he can't
without a 
do. I think
doubt one of 
ultimately I consider the
the finest managers in the 
source." 
game today and we are 
Kelly had said in recent days
extremely pleased to have him 
that he wanted to continue
leading our club," Pohlad said 
managing the Twins, though
in a statement. 
only if he had management's
A native of Graceville. Minn., 
support. The team has a strong
Kelly -nicknamed "TK" ­
base of starting pitchers (Brad
began his relationship with the 
Hadke, Eric Milton and Mark
Twins as a minor league play­
Redman) and some promising
er in 1971. 
young players (shortstop
Kelly has a 1,055-1,167 
Cristian Guzman and outfield­
career record but is 529-709 
ers Matt Lawton, Torii Hunter
during the past eight seasons. 
and Jacque Jones). 


Wednesday, October 4, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

Colu01n 
continued from page 24 
lion to our athletes. Belles teams and Irish teams take abuse from both sides of the street. Now it's time to offer support from both side as well. 
As a Saint Marv's student and a member of this com­munity, I support my Irish teams. I was probably one of the lirst to lose my voice at the Nebraska game. The support of Saint Mary's ath­letics doesn't end at U.S. 3l. 
The invitation is open. You just have to cross the street. 
Wear your Belles apparel or throw on your favorite Irish T-shirt. We're all part of the same community here to support each other in Christian fellowship. Belles athletes and Irish athletes deserve our respect and our support as a stu­dent body. Now's the time to show that support. 
It doesn't matter what side of State Route 31 you live on. Come over to Angela Athletic Facility todav at 4:45 and. show your·support to the mem­bers of your community. 
It's time for another Notre Dame community pep rally. Only tonight the Leprechaun can sit back and relax as the Belle Heads take the helm. I encourage all of you, from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alike, to come and support your school by sup­porting your community. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
The Society for Human Resource Management & The Management Club invites everyone to attend the 
Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
Rocky Bleier 
··Empowering Employees Through Quality Skill Training and Motivation" 
The '79 Super Bowl ga.me was tied 
and Bradshaw threw a pass ......... . 
Too soon and too high .............. . to Rocky Bleier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . who snagged it for a T.D., ........... . And thereby helping the Pittsburgh Steelers win their third Super Bowl. 


Friday, October 6 12: 15 -1:30 p.m. 
Jordon Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Football 
continued from page 24 
and second down and then Gary Godsey comes in [to throwl on third down," Davie said. "l just don't think that you can win al. this level doing that." 
Uncertainty behind the line of scrimmage is not the only reason the frish were looking forward to an off­week. Four highly-touted games against ranked oppo­nents to open the season have left the Irish emotion­ally and physically exhaust­ed. A last minute win against Purdue and losses on the final plays of the games to Nebraska and Michigan State have taken a toll on the Irish squad. 
"Let's face it, losing that game on the last play of the game up there in East Lansing takes a lot of wind out of you," Davie said. "You're glad you don't have to come back and play the next week." 
Physically, the Irish also benefited from the rest. 
"We had five or six players last week that maybe could have played another week, but may not have been ready to play the following week," Davie said. "You know, there are some guys that pushed it pretty hard and have been playing nicked up." 
While the Irish hope their performance on Saturday benefits from the open date, the Cardinal learned first hand that an off-week is not always a bonus. 
After riding a 2-1 record and an upset over Texas into a free weekend mid­September, the Cardinal lost any momentum they had 
gained since their loss to San Jose State and per­formed poorly against Arizona, putting·only nine points on the board. 

The Irish that they have 
used their week off better 
and plan to show it on when 
they step on the field. "These guys are hungry and they are excited, and that's the most important thing to me," Davie said. "You know, you sensed the energy yesterday. There was a genuine excitement at practice. 
I think this team real­izes that even though it has two losses, we have a chance to be really a good football team. So I think this team sees that there certainly is a lot to play for." 
Directed by Wendy Arons 
Wedne~day, Oct. 4 ...... 7:30 pm Thursday, Oct. 5 .......... 7:30 pm Friday, Oct. 6 .............. 7:30 pm Saturdaj~ Oct. 7 .......... 7:30 pm Sunday, October 8 ...... 2:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $9 • Seniors $8 • Students $6 Tickets are available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. For MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
half with an aggressive offense. At the 47:40 mark, sophomore Erich Braun drove the ball towards the goal before passing the ball off to the side to freshman Filippo Chillemi. Chellemi quickly found Detter dashing across the far right wing, where Detter took the pass and kicked the ball into the right side of the goal for his second score ot'the game. 
"Fillipo C:hclcmi played me a great ball across the middle," said Detter. "I just struck it well and it went in." 
The Irish continued to create chances throughout the second half. At the 57:00 mark. senior tri­captain Connor La.Bose nearly put two headers in the goal, each of which was stopped by a diving Berlin. 
Five minutes later, Rosso was fouled in the box, giving the Irish a free kick, which was taken by Braun. 
Braun shot the ball to the far right side of the goal, only to see Berlin make another amazing stop. 
"He stopped a very well-hit penalty," said Apple. Apple also noted that the Wildcats moved to a defensive Jocus during the second half. "They put 11 men in the box at times," said Apple. "When a team does that it's hard sometimes to break them down. It's hard to score." 
Detter's goals give the freshman three on the season. After a strong start during exhibitions and the season-opening tournament in Las Vegas, Detter has struggled with his shot while shuffling between forward and his natural position in the midfield. 
Tuesday night, everything seemed to go right for the spiked­haired blonde from White Lake, Michigan. Detter took eight shots, all of which had a real chance to go in the net. "Justin had a great game," said Apple. "He won every single air ball. He and Griffin [Howard] were great today in the air. He had two beautiful goals." 
Detter credits his coach's offen­sive focus for the improved play. "One of our big focuses on training the last week or so has been hav­ing the discipline to put the shots on goal," said Detter. 
Despite coming into the game with a winless record this season, Northwestern put forth an impres­sive effort. Apple has observed that most teams try a little bit harder against the Irish. 
2000-2001 Season Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
oodnight 

<j)~ 
(Good Morning 
:}ulul) 
by Anne-Marie MacDonald A comedy of 
alchemic proportions 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 4, 2000 

Belle!, bolster for tough road game against Hope 

By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Spom Writer 

The Belles hope to outgun the 
Flying Dutchmen in an away 
match today. 

"Yesterday we had a really good. intensive practice," sopho­more forward Shawna Jiannoni said. "If we play tomorrow like we practiced [this week!. the game is ours. We just have to put the intensity and effort into it." 
After the shutout loss to top­ranked Albion, the Belles spent Monday and Tuesday working on their shots and lilling in holes in their lineup. 
Saint Mary's soccer will face the Flying Dutchmen without two of their top defensemen, Alissa Brasseur and Jessica Klink. Brasseur is out for the season with a foot injury and Klink, Belles tri-captain, is out at least for this game. Both women play sweeper. 
"Alissa [Brasseur] and Klink are both core defenders," Jiannoni said. "Whoever replaces them will have to do some moving to make up for what we've lost." 
Saint Mary's feels that practice will fill in those gaps and turn around the offensive problems. 
"We've been practicing really 
well lately," sophomore Lynn 
Taylor said. "Hopefully our 
injuries will not hold us back, 
We'll be able tu adjust but our 
offense will have to step it up." 
The Flying Dutchmen arc look­ing for their second win of the season, as they will enter Wednesday's contest with a 1-7­1 record overall and are 1-4-1 in the MIAA under first-year head coach Leigh Sears. 
They defeated Adrian on September 12 in a i)-0 shutout victory, but otherwise have suf­fered defeats at the hands of Calvin. Albion. Kalamazoo. and Olivet. as well as non-league losses to Wheaton, and Aquinas. 
The Flying Dutchmen opened the 2000 season facing their new coach's alma mater, Ohio Wesleyan, and were shut out 13­0. 
"I think we can definitely com­pete against them," Taylor said. ''I'm ready for a well-played game." 
Unlike the Belles. the Dutchmen return most of their 1999 squad. 
Although sophomore tri-cap­tain Laura Splinter was given the starting job in goal at the start of 
the season, freshman goaltender 
Lauren l linklc has seen most of 
the action in the net this season, 
and has only allowed 20 goals 
since the first game against Ohio 
Wesleyan. 
Junior Arny Dobb leads the Dutchmen with 3 goals this sea­son, tied with Stephanie /\rtnak. who has scored 3 goals on penal­ty kicks for lhe Belles. Hope's 1999 AII-MIAA players, Emilie Dirkse and Lindsey O'Dell, also return. Dirkse was also narnPd All-MIAA in 1998. 
"We need to build team chem­istry," Jiannoni said. "We are working on it, and its coming on slowly but sun1ly. That's tlat out what we need to win tomorrow." 
In the 1999 match-up bntwccn the Belles and the Dutchmen. the Belles fell 2-1, with the lune Saint Mary's goal coming from veteran scorer [·leather Mu th. The Dutchmen finished that sea­son 8-9-1 overall and 5-3-0 in the MIAA to just beat out the Belles for fourth place in the final conference standings. . 
"We're working hard for this game," Kristin Priganc. junior forward, said. "We need lo go in with a positive menlal attitude and then we will walk away with a win." 

ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Presentation and Information Session 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 6:00 -8:00 pm Dooley Room LaFortune Student Center 
DOROTHY CARDER/The Observer 

All students interested in learning more about
Saint Mary's hop,es to rebound from a shutout loss to Albion last weekend by defeating the Hope Flying Dutchmen today. 
the actuarial profession are welcome to attend. 
The Belles are coming off a strong week of practices heading 


Allstate. 
You're in good hands. 
www.allstatecareers.com 

Into the match with the Dutchmen. 
PLEASE 
RECYt:LE 
THE 

Houses for Rent l BRHCIMES 1210 Cedar SI. $390/Mth l BR HOMES 1337 Fremont SSSO iMtll 529 Chicago $55-0/Mth 1BR APTS -IVIISHWAKA 314 Wells -!HOO/Wk 1-800-3211-7368 A Division ofC..1lver Development 

Interviews -Full Time Thursday, October 5, 2000 
Check with Career & Placement to schedule an interview time. 
(Qpy SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPY 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 


Copy Shop in the Lafortune Student Center can ease your workload in a_jiffy. We can handle any material you need copied: manuals, flyers, newsleuers, sell sheets, postcards, virtually anything you want. Free up your time and let us do the copying for you. We're the copy expert, ready to lend you our helping hands! 
High Volume Copying Color Copying, Scanning & Printing Binding/ Tabs/ Laminating/ Fax Service Newsletters / Reports / Business Cards 
Complete Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! Quality Copies, Quickly!" 
www.CopyShopND.com 
Copyright 2000 • All Rights Re~erved • I 0/00 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 The Observer . TODAY 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
I CAN'T IMAi;INE NOTRE !>AME BEFORE UNrV~SITY·SPONSOl!EI> 
ALL WEEKENI> !>RINKING FESTIVALS 

Fox TROT 
WtiAT Do YOU MEAN,CAN NICotE AND I 
(:,O UP TO TtiE CITY WHAT FoR?! Do I HAVE ON SATUlcOAY? 
To f:,1VE YoU A REASON I WHAT 
foR E"ERYTH1NG?! FoR? 
I 

TOM KEELEY 
CAN'T IMAGINE NOTR EAT E BEFORE ASSIGN AR!>IANS ANt> EL 
BILL AMEND 
So, NICOLE, I WAS MoTt-tER! SHEESH! CAN'T I 
I'M foURTEEN YEARS otD, 
THINKING WE COU\.0 
(:,O UP TO THE CITYDo ANYTHIN(:, WITHoOT A 
oN SATURDAY.
/ FULt-BtoWN 

I WHAT C,AT10N?! FoR? 
1NTERR0­
n 
page 23 
TYLER

THINGS Couto BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
Doe~ th,~ r,n9 t"l~Ke. Me. \ooK hKe. 
o. p1rnp? 
'.!,, I 
,P 

The question everyone must ask themselves when buying a class ring 
-.> 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Anne Rice, Armand Assante, Susan Sarandon, Charlton Heston, Jackie Collins 
Happy Birthday, You won't give up easily this year. You will observe clearly everything going on around yo·u. You will recognize what and who are good for you and will have an opportunity to get rid of all the negatives in your life. Once you do, you will be able to achieve the suc­cess you crave. Your numbers: 11, 15, 27, 29, 42, 46 
ARIES {March 21-April 19): Get more education, and you will raise your earning potential. You need to get out and socialize with those who can keep up with your energetic pace. Physical activities will be your best outlet. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Complete those unfinished hobbies. A greater involvement with children will benefit you. Work out of your home if at all possible. You need to keep active to forget past mishaps. Don't let depression stand in the way of new adventures. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't lead your emotional partner on. Either you want to be in a full-time relationship or not. Be honest with yourself as well as with your lover. A little soul-searching may be necessary. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let your emotional mood swings affect your work. You need activities that will calm the nerves. Try looking into some relaxing forms of self-improvement. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Mix busi­ness with pleasure. You will shine at social events. Your ability to capture 
EUGENIA LAST 
the attention of influential individu­
als will help get your ideas off the 
ground. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will not see things in your normal logical way. Do a little re-evaluation concerning your own motives. Get­ting back to basics should help issues atli.ome.000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may have a problem with relatives. You can expect delays due to trans­portation difficulties. Don't be too quick to criticize loved ones. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can raise your earning potential if you deal with those who are willing to promote your ideas. Your determi­nation and stamina will heighten your reputation and help you close 
deals.0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your emotional attitude may be confusing to others. You need to get out and ·meet people who will inspire you. Don't become involved in secret affairs. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You will have to be careful not to give away personal information that could hurt your reputation. You need to look into organizations that can help you exploit your talents. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Force yourself to get out with friends. You need to put yourself in a position that will allow you the freedom to do your own thing. Look into business partnerships. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Spend some time at home if you don't wish to upset your mate. Look into home-improvement projects that will make the whole family more comfortable. 0000 

Birthday Baby: You know how to put on the charm if you want some­thing. Your ability to persuade others to follow you and to help you when necessary will lead to all sorts of positive and fruitful events throughout your life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
Where Sherlock Holmes "died," with "the" 

5 Deejays' platters 
10 Omnibus alternative 
14 Ticked off 
15 Ripley's last words? 
16 Shakespearean ensign 
17 Energy source 
18 Get stuck 19 River of Aragon 
20 Outsized sleeping accom­modations? 
23 Calypso offshoot 
25 Long intro? 
26 Blubbers 27 Too-small 
topper? 32 Where the action is 
33 Thought: Prefix 34 Encircle 35 Like cheddar cheese on a tray 37 One of the Ivies 41 "Duck soup!" 
42 H.M.O. requirement, usually 
43 Too little of a bad thing? 47 Russian pancakes 49 Dawn goddess so Tale teller 51 Somewhat belated desire? 56 Ruination 57 Fess up 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.......-.--.--... 

A I -+-+--+-.... 
I
N 
~.,,+-,+:-+,-,-1 
58 Pro 61 Dilly 62 Sailor's respite 63 Prolific auth.? 64 Noggin 65 Maze word 66 Seeds often get 
them 
DOWN 
1 Center of a comparison 2 His wife was a pillar 3 Vulgar sort 4 It might jackknife 
5 Maturity classification of sherry 
6 Move forward 7 _-Aryan 8 Year-end 
libations 
9 "Keep as is" 10 _ del Fuego 11 Animal in a 
warren 12 Match, grammatically 13 They sometimes swing 

i..;;..~,.;..i,.;.,;..t....--.-+:-:+:-+,-,-+-,-+-:-1-=i~f=I 21 Star in Lyra 
--+--+-,,,.+--1  22 Go off the wall?  
-=+,,.,.+,..+ee-t  23 Hose problem  
24 Opera's _  Te  
Kanawa  
L U  28 "Bitter" part  
A S  -+--+-..+-....  29 Nation with a  
S  T  solid green flag  
H Y  __,.___.__......__  A T  30 Poetic homage  


31 Nancy Drew's 43 Official seal 52 Brown rival  
boyfriend 44 "Psst!" follower, 53 Where it all  
35 No-goodnik  maybe  started  
36 Manipulate  45 Reason out  54 Latin 101 verb  
37 Shortstop, e.g.:  46 Hang out  55 Horseshoe  _  
Abbr.  47 Jazz variation  59 Last X of X-X-X  
38 Spiritualrevelation  48 Thick vine  60 ''T' or "F": Abbr.  
39 Prefix with  

Puzzle by Wlhiam A. Ballard 

second Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 40 AMEX are available by touch-tone phone: 
counterpart 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 41 Lighted sign Annual subscriptions are available for the 42 Dermatologist's best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
diagnosis years: 1-888-7-ACR0SS. 


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the tw? campuses. Please complete the accompa­nymg form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-~ 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
I 
I 
I 
-I 
----------~ 

Seattle sinks Sox 
Ken Gri)Jey and the 
Mariners go one up on 
White Sox thanks to 
bloopers by Chicago. 
page 14

PORTS 


Griffey 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Wednesday, October 4, 2000 
Belles, Irish share att.1letic 
•
community 

Proud rans sporting warn appan~l. The mu.sect riling up the crowd. Coaches and play­ers promising wins. 
Evrry Fridav 
night, before a home football game this 
is Lhe 
scene at the JACC. !low would I know? I'm a Saint Mary's student 
and as 
part of the Notre Dame community I head across the street on Friday night to support my teams. 
For years women from Saint Mary's have been don­ning thnir "Irish" gear and joining their Notre Dame counterparts in supporting men's and women's athletics. Our hosts at Notre Dame have been more than welcoming, encouraging us to support the teams that are a big part of our community. 
Coming from a family of alumni. I can't imagine a Norrc Dame pep rally without the entire community, includ­ing Saint Mary's, being pre­sent. 
It's time for Saint Mary's to take its turn as the host and invite the entire community to come and support its teams. This afternoon, Saint Mary's will be hosting a pep rally to show support for its athletic teams. We want to extend an invitation to our Noire Dame community members to come 
join us in supporting our women athletes. 
These teams that play on the Saint Mary's campus don't belong only to the women of Saint Mary's. They are part of the entire commu­nity. Students of Nol.re Dame -they are your teams too. Our student athletes welcome your support as your student athletes welcome our support. 
We can't give you Division I play or promise a swarm of rnporters, but that's not what it's all about. A sense of com­
.. 
munity is something that stu­dents on both campuses have been struggling for. I!ere is an opportunity to show our­selves and each otht:r that we can come together through mutual respect and dedica-

sec COLUMN/page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish end slide in defeating Wildcats 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assisrant Sporrs Editor 
Ending a three-game losing streak, the Irish men's soccer team literally shut the lights out on the Wildcat<; of Northwestern during their 2-1 win Tuesday night. The Irish put 2!i shots on goal during the game which was delayed for 40 minutes in the second half' when the lighL<; went out due to a power outage. 
"We had a lot of shots." said Irish head coach Chris Apple. "We shot the lights out, so to speak." 
The Irish started out the scor­ing 13:37 into the game, as fresh­man Justin Detter took a corner kick by junior Matt Hosso and headed into the lower left side of the box, past Wildcat goalkeeper Chris Berlin for the game's first score. 
The lead would not last long, as the Wildcat offense soon came alive. Four minutes later, Northwestern senior Jun Kim took a pass from teammate Paul Elkins near llrn back of the box. Kim Jct the ball drop off of his chest, kicked the ball bdore it hit the ground, and watched as it sailed past Irish goalie Greg Tait into the upper-left end of the goal. 
The Irish took four more shots in the first half, none of' which they were able to get past Berlin's goal-keeping. 
"Their defenders saved more balls off the line than I've ever seen," said Apple after the game. "Their goalkeeper made some great saves.n 
The Irish opened the second 
see SOCCER/page 21 

Davie, team use bye week to advantage 

LIZ LANG/The Observer Senior midfielder Griffin Howard kicks the ball away from a Northwestern defender in Notre Dame's 2-1 victory. 
FOOTBALL 


ble starter in Saturday's con­test, but cautioned that the decision could come down to the wire. 
"If I had to say right now it would probably be Matt LoVecchio, if I based it just on yesterday's practice," Davie • said. "But I'm still not ready to say that (the starter! defi­nitely is Matt LoVecchio. I don't know that there will be any dramatic changes between now and Friday or Saturday, but certainly there will be the opportunity for some changes if somebody comes out there and just docs a tremendous job. But l think and then Gary Godsey and then Jared Clark." 
Unable to run the option, Godsey struggled in his sec­ond start of his career at Michigan State and the Irish had to turn to LoVecchio, a more versatile player to take the helm of a struggling offensive attack. 
"The situation that we got ourselves into when Gary was the quarterback against Purdue and Michigan State took a big chunk of our offense away and that's why I do not want to get into a situ­ation where it's Matt on first 
By KERRY SMITH 
Spons Ediror 
Open dates on a football schedule can prove to be either a bane or a boon for teams trying to weigh in on the winning side of a score card. 
Struggling teams cannot seem to find enough free weekends to regroup and teams on top of their games do not need the break to keep the juggernaut rolling. 
For head coach Bob Davie and his struggling 2-2 Irish. last weekend's break was perfect timing. 

"The open date came at a good time for us for obvious reasons," said Davie Tuesday in his weekly pregame press conference. "[Being inJ some­what of a transition right now offensively with young quar­terbacks, I think certainly the more time that you have, the better you're able to put a plan in and all of the checks and things." 
The uncertainty behind the line of scrimmage remains with four days until the Irish head back into Notre Dame Stadium to take on the Stanford Cardinal. 
Davie pegged freshman Matt Lovecchio as the proba­
right now it rs Matt LuVecchio see FOOTBALL/page 21 
vs. Adrian Cross country 
.,,

... 
Today, 6 p.m. Nurre Dame lnvicacional 
SPOF~TS 

~ 
Friday, 4: 15 p.m. vs. Stanford Saturday, I :30 p-m.
ATA 

at Georgetown t@ at West Virginia ·~ 
Friday, 4 p.m. Saturday, 11 a.m.
GLMfCE 

--:­







