
Crazy Phoxes 
China patterns 
Check out the story about Pangborn and get WednesdayClinton signed a controversial bill to 
the skinny on the dorm hy the Rock. 
resume trade with China. 
Scene . page 1 O 
World and Nation . page 5 

OCTOBER 11, 2000 




The Independent Newspaper Se11Jing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 37 HTTP:/!OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Passing the buck 
Affording college tuition may be important to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, but the issue is also important in the 2000 presidential campaign 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Associate News Edi ror 
The high price tags that go along with a c;ollcge education arc a con­cern for many American families. It's only natural then that the issue of how to pay for higher education and to make it more affordable has become an issue in 
the presidential See Also 
election. Republican candi­"Professors: d ate George W. 
candidates'
Bush and Democratic candi­tuition plan date Al Gore are 
may not work" 
going against their 
page6
Party's traditional stance on the issue with Bush focusing his proposals for college tuition aid at the poor and Gore targeting the middle class. Regardless of who the candidates are catering their plans to, the question that remains is will those who need aid most benefit from these plans. 
Gore's plan would allow people paying for college to deduct $10,000 a year in tuition from their taxable 

AFP Photos income or take a $2,800 tax credit. Democratic presidential candidate Al Gore (above) met with school The plan would primarily help middle children along his motorcade route in Bradenton, Fla. Tuesday. class families earning between 
$40,000 to $120,000. Families earn-

Republican presidential candidate George W. Bush (left) and his wife Laura take off from Austin, Texas, for a day of campaign ral­
see TUITION/page 4

lies in Tennessee and North Carolina Tuesday. 
BOT reviews alcoholpolicy 
met with various offices and adminis­
ByMEGDADAY trators, including Father Mark 
News Writer Poorman, the Office of Student 
Activities, the Office of Residence Life,While some students may have been the Office of Drug and Alcoholplanning a weekend of alcohol con­Awareness.
sumption, the Board of Trustees met "We wanted to get a feeling for what 
with student representatives on 
administrators' perspectives are onThursday to discuss the University's student drinking and compare themalcohol policy. 
with our own thoughts," Smith said.
Students Jay Smith, Susan Roberts 
The Board of Trustees committee
and Mike Heinz met with two commit­
sponsored student focus groups to
tees of the Board of Trustees and 12 determine students' impressions of the 
members of student government to 
alcohol policy, Roberts added. 
discuss alcohol use at Notre Dame. 
"We asked students whether it's fair"After talking with the administra­or not and any ways they might want ittion, we decided it would be advanta­to be changed. We also asked them to geous to talk about alcohol, which wac; outline the policy," said Roberts. She
what the trustees wanted.," said 
said the informal meetings were "dis­Smith, student government chief of cussion based" and they tried to varystalT. 
the types of students they interviewed. 
Although other issues were dis­"We met with freshmen and talkedcussed, the main focus of the report about their experiences with alcohol was alcohol. 
thus far and [resident assistants] about "Our main objective was putting a inconsistencies between dorms," shestudent perspective on the alcohol poli­said. 
cy and alcohol use since we knew they When the presentation was deliv­would be talking about it in the morn­ered, the group said the preparationing," Roberts said. 
was worthwhile.
"We did our homework." said Smith. 
"My impression was that they react-describing how the student committee prepared for the presentation. They see BOT/page 4 

Board gives students a voice 
are to try-to link together all sample various Thanksgiving By AMY GREENE 
the different government recipes brought in by stu­News Writer 
boards and organizatic;ms of dents that will be prepared 
Saint Mary's student gov­Saint Mary's and sec what by the dining hall for dinner. ernment has expanded this we can do to assist them." According to Omarova, year with the addition of the Despite the fact that the members of the board are Student Diversity Board. board is new this year, they also compiling a list of places 
The board was initiated have many events planned around campus. that are not last year when students for the year. handicap voiced concerns that certain "We' re accessible. students are being underrep­about to "It's important to They plan to resented, such as ethnic send a notify Student
understand we're 

minority students, women newsletter Affairs and
all different and

with different religious back­to all the Residence Life grounds and sexual orienta­n o n -have different about these tion and handicapped stu• Catholic areas so they
cultures within us. " 

dents. The result was a 23-women on can be consid­member board under the campus to ered in the guidance of president see if they Akmaral Omarova budget for next Akmaral Omarova. would like a diversity board president year. 
The board includes a wide list a "Right now spectrum of representatives churches or we're trying to including LaFuerza, places of worship in the area get our name out and edu­Peacemakers, Campus they could go to," said cate people about us," she Ministry, Environmental Omarova. "We want to do said. "Essentially we want to Coalition and Disability what we can to make them be the crossroad on campus Awareness. feel more welcome." that unites the different 
"It's important to under­The board is also planning boards and students. It's stand we're all difforcnt and the Cultural Thanksgiving important to recognize our have different cultures with­Potluck scheduled around different culturrs and l<'arn in us," said Omarova. ''Our Thanksgiving in the dining to undPrstand and apprPri­goalr;; on the Diversity Board halt. Students will be abh~ to ate all our dilfon•nrPs." 
Wednesday, October 11, 2000 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Rainbo-ws for 
all God's 
children 
Do you reach out to those who arc in need of 

support? Do you rally lo show support for those 
whose rights are not being acknowledged? Do 
you comfort someone who is need of comforting? 
Chances are many of you would -and there­

fore, would also consider 
yourselves to be good 
Kelly Hager 

Christians. 
Now. ask yourself this: W()uld you attend a march in support of a homosexual Copy Hditor friend? Would you rally for the rights of a bisexual coworker? Would you take the time to minister to someone who was serious­ly questioning his or her sexuality? Would you wear a rainbow ribbon or would you be too afraid -thinking that someone might associate. you with the cause? 
Now ask yourself the original question again. In your daily living, arc you sharing a message of Christian love? 
Too oft('n, I witness fear overpower a person's r1\aclion. Fear so powerful it can silence even the most outspoken individuals -even when they arc around people whom they feel comfortable with. 
Them arc also those who arc homophobic and believe homosexuality will never have an impact on their personal lives. Also. there are people who proclaim religion, even Catholicism, as stating that homosexuality is wrong. To those fbw. you arc hiding. But what arc you afraid ofl 
I hardly think Jesus would rip off a ribbon rep­resenting support of another human. or point fin­gers and laugh at someone whose view was dif­forent than his own. God loves everyone -black, white or rainbow. I don't think Jesus would ever remain silent as others poked fun. 
Chances arc you sit by someone in class who is struggling with their sexuality. Chances are you live in the same hall as someone who is gay. Chances are one of your friends is loo. Ask your­self: would you treat that person any differently if they were to reveal their orientation with you? Would you feel uncomfortable talking about sex­ual situations with them? Why'? By not reaching out to those friends, you arc ignoring another person's need for assistance, and therefore, ignoring a call for help. 
Are you afraid of going against the church's teachings? Fear not. The teaching of the church is to support, love and assist your brothers and sisters in any way that is pastorally possible. In no way docs the church support banishment. In no way does it give any person the right to be cruel. 
Let today be a beginning -reach out to those who are struggling-don't be afraid. Through talking and helping people who arc facing deci­sions regarding their sexuality. you will be able to witness first hand the healing power of under­standing and compassion. You can admire the courage of many brave individuals as they deal with something very difficult to overcome. 
Happy National Coming Out Day. To those find­ing the courage to speak for the first time, I wish you the best: you will be in my prayers. For those who have yet to Ond the courage to reach out to other friends in support -I will pray for you as well. 
And, to those who wear a cross around your neck -will you back that up with a Rainbow? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Laura Rompf Laura Kelly Kelly Hager Graphics Liz Zanoni Kacie Annis 
Sports Production Tim Casey Rachael Protzman Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Lane Herringron Amanda Greco 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a m~mber ofth~ J\S.'i.ot.:iJtcd Press. All reproduction dglu~ ate reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Event: "VibeNation,"  . Event: "The Ultimate  . Production: ''Tartuffe,"  . Exhibit: "Picturing  
led by Jim Catalano and  Corn Maze", 5 to 10 p.m ..  IUSB Campus Auditorium,  Lincoln." 10 a.m. to  
Jim Bollero, 6:30 p.m., St.  Barbott Farms and  call 237-4203 to purchase  5 p.m.. Indiana Center for  
Joseph's County Library,  Greenhouse. call 616 - tickets  l listory  
Western Branch  422-2378 for information  . Lecture: "Attachment  . Event: "Niles Haunted  
.-Event: "Haunted Castle  Disorder: When Kids Don't  House," 8 to 11 p.m .. Dr.  
and Alack Forest," 7 to  Bond," 11:_30 a.m. to 1 p.m.,  Frightmare's Phantom  
9 p.m.. Fort Wayne  Madison Center  Theater  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Michigan State students protest Columbus Day 
LANSING "genocide and acculturation" of mil­The scent of burning sage filled lions of Native Americans. the cold night air Monday night in 
Those who attended the gathering
,.
front of the rock on Farm Lane. at the rock listened to various speak­The smoke, used for purification, ers throughout the night. Stoney wafted over the nearly 200 people Polman, a psychiatric and brain who gathered with tho North injury specialist for the Resource American Indian Student Center for Persons with Disabilities, Organization to observe Indigenous described her experience of being a People's Day. The holiday is cele-· Native American in the military. bratcd each year by Native Polman also addressed Native Americans in protest of tho federal American students by stressing the observance of Columbus Day. importance of looking at history crit­
Michigan State University interna­ically and using information to bene­
be the equivalent to the Jewish com­
tional relations and German senior fit f'uturc ge111\rations.
munity of celebrating the day that 
Darren Kroenke. a NAISO co-chair­"We were supposed to fade away,
the Nazi party came to power in 
man. said commemorating but thanks to you, we're still here,"
Germany," said Kroenke, who is a 
Christopher Columbus· arrival to the she said. "You have a responsibility
member of the Ecyamm
Americas in 1492 is similar to cele­to education. Never let education
Quittoowauconnuck nation. 
brating the Holocaust. take away from you. You're here to
Kroenke, and others who attended 
"Celebrating Columbus Day would gain, not to give up." 
the event, blame Columbus for the 
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Student info sold to companies 
PHILADELPI IIA 
College sophomore Vincent Chan knows he can expect a 9 a.m. wake-up call to his dormitory room several times a semester. And he doesn't even have to ask for it. That's because the free service L5 being provided by an MBNA telemarketer more than willing to extol the virtues of a Visa card that Chan doesn't want and certainly doesn't need. "I say thanks and then hang up," Chan explained. "It's kind of like I'm sleeping now -leave me alone."' Not likely. Chan can rest assured that he'll be called again. And if you live or work at the University of Pennsylvania. you can probably expect a phone call sometime soon, too. The university sells your directory information each year to a select group of businesses. Through a few royalty and licensing deals -sometimes worth millions of dollars ­Penn provides a list of student and faculty names, phone numbers and addresses enabling private businesses to contact you at work and home. And if that doesn't give you pause, consider this: Even without Penn's help, all it takes is a little effort and the right legal loopholes. 
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 
Men's enrollment drops nationwide 
AUSTIN 

In tho last two decades. women have gradually wrestled away a societal privilege once held solely by their male counterparts: college attendance. Al an annual meeting of tho National Association for College Admission Counseling, academic ollicials analyzed a nationwide trend resulting in more wqmen attending U.S. universities than men. Although women's college enrollment is on the rise, ofli­cials attribute the dramatic trend to a drop in men's cnroHment. Nationally, less than 45 percent of undergrad­uates are men, down from about 57 percent in 1970. In 1997. the last year for which data is available, about 20 percent more women earned bachelor's degrees than men, according to a report by the Center for the Study of Opportunity in llighor Education. Utah is the only state with more men than women attending college. 'Tm really troubled by this," said Thomas Mortensen. in a statement. He added that the trend is partly duo to male disengage­ment from family life, making male students loss con­cerned with earning enough money to support a family. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon. Wednesday, Oct. 11. Pco.iffltrer t<n>:mt forchytine cm:ii.tiallarlhi<;l:l tffiµ'!l:atUreS 
\ 
i 

Wedn~sday Thurs~ay ~ Friday) · ~ 
/ 
FRONTS: 


Satur~ay .............................. 

~­

0 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY PrH.Sute
~,:is6

Sunp~,Y .s,'\.~ u.·,. >t)? ® © D D D D D D 
High Low Shower• R•ln T•atorm& Flurrie• Snow lea Sunny Pl. Cloudy CIOudy 
'"••·•s,P 
~.)·./\l 

AUanta 74 51 Las Vegas 84 60 Portland 61 40 Baltimore 72 50 Memphis 74 52 Sacramento 68 51 Boston 65 42 Milwaukee 66 53 $1. Louis 71 58

Q,~,~9.'fJ.Q (f ~ u 
Chicago 74 50 New York 68 45 Tampa 78 54
Sflowers T-sto,ms Rain Aurries Snow Jee Sunny Pl CI01Jdy Cloudy 
Houston 88 67 Philadelphia 63 43 Wash DC 70 52
Via Auoaared Pmss OIAPhicsNel 
-•~~-••··"'· ............... ~-••ioi. 

Wednesday, October 11, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Campaign surpasses expectations 


Judicial council 
also the specific goal that the t:am­Thus l'ar, members of' the Notre 
By NATASHA GRANT 
paign has been able to realize," said Dame community, directly and indi­News \X'ricer 
given more cases,
Universitv President father Edward rectly, have played a key role in the 
The Generations campaign at Malloy who organized the campaign. campaign's success. Notre Dame has set a record-break­He mirrored Reagan's thoughts "Our alumni, our Notre Dame par­ing pace since its start six years ago about the campaign exceeding its ents, our Notrn Dame friends answer 

responsibility
in 1994. Daniel Reagan, Executive goal saying that there is no excess the call each and every time the Ollicer of Development along with money. University embarks on a capital cam­William Sexton. Vice President of "The original campaign had other paign," Reagan said. 
By MYRA McGRIFF UniVf~rsity Relations, arc in charge of goals but since we've responded Reagan also attributed the su1,;cess 
News Writer the campaign and dismiss rumors other needs have arisen," Malloy to "clarity of vision" saying, "this loy­about billions of extra dollars being said. ally would be much harder to keep if At the beginning of fall semester, Saint Mary's disci­raised. He said that the people that con­there were not a clear vision and a 
plinary committee allowed the student-run judicial
The campaign begun internaily but tributed to the campaign were instru­true desire to continuously improve board to hear more violation cases. 
was not made public until three mental in the placement of the funds. the University," he said. 
The new procedure sends students who have violated years later in September 1997 and is "Usually when people give money, Reagan said he never doubted fire safety, noise or visitation rules to the judicial board. 
set to run until December 2000. they specify where they want their they could reach the original goal, Six students and two co-chairs sit on the committee, "The campaign has a set of targets money to be used. The highest priori­but they just wanted to strive for deciding the sanction of students found in violation. 
which were based upon the Colloquy ty has been financial aid for under­more and now that they had The meetings between the committee and students for the year 2000," said Reagan. graduate studenls, professional stu­achieved it, they must go forward. 
are designed to let the students prnsent their case and "The university's 10-ycar plan for dents, graduate students and funds "There's no question that the fund for the board to vote on a sanction. What each student 
progress was created in 1993. That for endowed professors," Malloy said. raising at Notre Dame cannot stand must do is decided by the judicial board. · particular report had priority needs Reagan said that although organiz­still. It must continue to improve for "We are really focused on educational sanctions. We totaling in the area of $2 billion. The ers have made great improvements the sake of the University's as students know what will make us learn. The most 
vision was tempered to translate where this is concerned, they are still progress," he said. 
popular sanctions arc papers based on research," said itself into more achievable fund rais­unsatisfied. "Notre Dame has enjoyed a Shelly Ameroziak, co-chair of the judicial board. 
ing goals." "Most recently financial aid lremendous show of loyalty over the The new procedure was set up to free hall directors The campaign will continue until improvf'd the point where all demon­years from its alumni," Reagan 
from hearings and paper work. i1.'i dose or until all its needs arc met strated need of students is being added. "There is certainly a growing 
"I am able to handle more in hall situations that resi­
fully because despite its phenomenal met," Reagan said. "What we want to percentage in number of alumni who dents are having and wqrk better with my resident success, there is no extra money. eliminate now would be the need for are supporting the University advisors," said Sara Scalzo, hall director for Lemans 
"It is a tremendous success not loans, so that is our next goal in through estate and planned gifts as 
Hall. only in terms of the money figure but terms of financial aid fund raising." well." 
In connection with Saint Mary's new no smoking poli­cy, most of the cases going before the judicial board are fire safety violations. Although the judicial board is com­prised of all students, some students may choose to appeal to have their case heard by a hall director. 
''Residents are feeling that it won't be as private going before the judicial board, but it will. Everything is confi­dential," said Scalzo. 
Some students agree with the new set up of the judi­cial board and see no problem presenting their case in front of a student comprised boa.rd. 
"These are violations that are not complicated and that everybody is aware of," said Alyson Leatherman, Saint Mary's senior. 
Other students feel that as a small college we should look out for one another. By establishing a productive 
student comprised judicial 
board, they feel part of that 
objective is accomplished. 
"Because we live in a

Expectant mother of twins with one 
community we should be 

year old child seeks child care 
there to give guidance to 

assistance in Granger 
others in our own commu­nity," said Julia Malczynski,

Good Salary, Monday-Friday Saint Mary's senior. 
call Jasmin 277-5106 
Enter pra;i rie/7/t1 Midwest's premier business plan competition 

All you need is a business idea summary and a web browser. The deadline for submissions is October 30th. Details available at www.prairiefire.org 
Org?ni;e_d_ By1 
@McKimey, First Tuesday 
Gold Sponsors: 
Hewlett-Packard Company, Lante Corporation 
Silver Sponsors: 
Comdisco, Compaq Computer Corporation, Corporate Technology Communications, eBlost Ventures, iXL, Noth & Rosenthal ·Sonnenschein 

Community Partners: 
The Illinois Coalition, Mayor Daley's Coundl of Technology Advisors 
Eduqgional Partnjtl".§.; 
Kellogg Graduate School of Management, University of Chicago Graduate School of Business 
t,lf!~ia Spqn~o_rs.; 
Chicago Tribune, WBEZ 
MCAT Prep at ND! 8 Po'int kllerage Score Improvement, 4,000 Pages ofPractice Materials, 72 Class Hours. No'W Less CASH! Enroll in a MCAT class by

The 
October 21 and get a $1 00


rinceton 
discount. Classes start on campus this spring. Call (8001-2­

Review 
REVIEW or register on-line at www. Princeton Review .com. 

800.2Review www.PrincetonReview.com 
Wednesday, October 11, 2000
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
BOT 
continued from page I 
ed positively," said Smith, 
"because they were inquisitive as 
to what the scene is on campus." 
The students first proposed that the University try tu develop a con­sistent alcohol policy across cam­pus by bringing administrators, rectors, resident assistants, stu­dent government and other stu­dents together to define a specific policy, said Smith. 
The studmns also rncornmended the University take more stnps to inform students about alcohlJI, I\SpPcially edl!cation for the fresh­men and olhl'r ,weds of uppcr­classm1•n, Hob11rts said. 
"Each year students arc faced · with a lol of different circum­stances and pressures," said Smith. "The motivating factors why students drink chango. We 1wud to addrrss rvolving neods." 
HobnrL'i said it would be bcndt­cial tn educate off-campus students 

abollt Indiana state laws regarding 
issues such as the sale of cups for 
keg parties and the presence of 
minors at those parties. 
The final recommendation the committee presented to the board was the need for a student center, said Smith. 
No decisions will be made. though, immediately regarding the suggestions of the student govern­ment committee. 
"On the whole, we felt gnod. We felt we were wcll-r~ceived; we felt discussing things they had already discussed was important because it gave them studnnt input. ff we hadn't addressed !alcohol!, they wouldn't have gotten their ques­tions answered," HoborL'i said. 
Roberts said the discussion wa'i good because it generated an open dialogue between students and the Board ol'Trustees. 
"Most of' the trustiies seemed verv enthusiastic and interested in wh;lt we were discussing," said Smith. "It was good in that tht>y werl' trying to und<>rstand wher<> students were coming from." 

Saint Mary's aims to recruit online 
By Ki\TIE MJLtER 

News Writer This fall, Saint Mary's will join 180 colleg,~s and universi­ties across the nation in host­ing the first Online College Fair program which is sponsored by the National Association for College Admission Counseling. The online college !'airs implement a new technique in recruiting. Prospective stu­dents will be able to access the fairs by compllter and interact with representatives from col­leges and universities. ''This program is the first lJf its kind." said Marv Pat Nolan, Saint Mary's admissions direc­tor and member of the nation­al commiHee. "Saint Mary's wlll have their own virtual booth with multi-media chat rooms that allow studrnts to chat with linancial aid advi­
sors, administrators, Saint Mary's students, etc." 
Between Oct. l 9 and April 18, 2001, Saint Mary's will appear at 10 on line fairs. In order for students to partic­ipate, they must register at www.OnlineCollcgeFair.com and l()g in at the scheduled time in order to enter the fair. 
"I think that the most won­derful part of this program is that students anywhere can log in," said Nolan. "It's a way for them to get comt'orl.able in their own space. Students experience a better comfort level when using a computer for communication." 
Some of the online !'airs will be marketed to minority stu­dents. students with special needs and business and sci­ence students. 
"Tht1re is something for everyone," said Nolan. 
Nolan says she hopes that . the online college fairs will 
reach out to stud1mts no mat­
ter their location and provide 
Saint Mary's with grnatcr 11cxi­
bility in communicating with 
prospcctivo studenl'i. 

"It is a wonderful opportuni­
ty for us to b<i exposed to stu­
dents everywhern. It doesn't 
matter wlwrc wo an~. It 
expands opportunities for 
Saint Mary's as well as stu­
dents," said Nolan. 

The electronic fairs will not 
rnplace actual visits with stu­
dents at collcgc !'airs nr during 
campus visits according to 
Nolan. 

"We don't want to loose the 
personal outreach. The elec­
tronic fairs will bring morn 
students to Saint MiLrv's cam­
pus. This opportunity goes 
beyond anything wc'v<! done 
bcforr.'' she said. 




Tuition 
continued from page l 
ing ovlir that amount would 
not be Pligible l'or his pro­
poiwd plan 
Unlike Hush who wants to 
fund !'ell grants, which benefit 
lower income· familius, would 
fund up to the maximum 
$5,100 for the first year ol' 
co!tegr1. Gore's plan figures in 
increasing the numbnr of Pell 
grants but doesn't figure the 
money to cover the grants into 
the budg11L 
Patrick Pierce. associate 
professor of political science 
nl Saint Mary's, attributes 
Gore's proposal to tlw move­
ment of tlw Dmnocratic Party 
to catnr towards votnrs in thn 
cmltnr. rnLhcr than more lib­
eral voters. 
"Gore's proposal has to do \·vith Uw transformation oJ' the Domocratic Pariv that occurrnd under Bill ('.linton," said Pierce. "The transforma­tion is from a party that was focused on inequalities and poor individuals to a !'arty thal bnlicvcd as 11 result of e1lection debacles in the '70s and '80s lo shift over and not be pegged as too liberal. 
"This slartcd with Bill Clinton and the New Democrats. Gore is in a nurn­bcr of ways comfortable with the transformation from less liberal stances and this is clearly one of those issues." 
Targeting those voters who fall in the center ideologically means targeting middle class voters, in particular. married white suburban middle class women who are the swing voLe in this election. said Sean Savage. associate professor of political science at Saint Mary's. 
"If you look at the so-called battleground states of Missouri, Michigan and Pennsylvania, it seems that since Gore has started talking about Social Security and Medicare in those states, he is gelling the support and votes of senior citizens," said Savage. "Now, it seems that the vote of married middle class white suburban women has tightened up so Gore is trying to appeal to them by focusing on middle class tax credits for higher education." 
Savage said that polls have consistently shown that mid­dle class white suburban men arc supporting Bush at 55 percent. so it is logical that the campaign is targeting the 

wives of these men. who may 
be vascillaling in who they 
will vote i'or. 
"I think they are trying to 
bring in this group of women 
to vote for Gore at the last 
minute," said Savage. 
The only reason Gore's tar­
geting or the middle class for 
college aid relief' is not supris­
ing is bccallse it is consistent 
with his tax cut strntogy, said 
Savage. 

"Gore's proposal is consis­
tnnl with his belief that anv 
kind of tax cut should be• tar·­
geted and encourage responsi­
ble social activity," said 
Savage. "By 'responsible 
social activitv' that means 
using the tax ci1t and tax code 
in such a way to benefit soci­
ety and make college more 
affordable for moro people." 
Gorn has consisl.nnlly distin­guished himself l'rom Bush by focusing on targeted tax cuts versl!s Bush who has advocat­ed universal tax cuts, said Savage. 
"Gore is trying to show he is more fiscally responsihle than Bush," said Savage. "Jie is projecting a message that he is not spending too much and only using income tax cuts if it is socially responsible in achieving policy goals." 
Gore has also proposed cre­ating a national teacher corps that would give tuition pay­ments up front [or those who agreed to teach for four years af'ter graduation, 40l(j) edu­cational savings accounts that would let people save $2,500 per year for college or job training. Rush's plan also includes allowing families to save $5,000 per year in tax­advantaged accounts for edu­cational purposes. 
Bush's plan, which focuses on funding Pell grants and giving merit based scholarhips to students, is allowing Bush to distinguish himself from 
Gore. 

"In contrast from Gore, Bush wants to distinguish college aid from an income tax cut," said Savage. "He doesn't want to mix higher education or any other issues with tax cuts. It goes back to his campaign message that 'this is your money and government shouldn't tell you what to do with it."' 
Bush's proposal is not going against political party type as much as Gore, said Pierce. 
"Bush's proposal is straying from the party a little but not nearly as much as Gore," said Pierce. "You see them both reflecting the move toward the ideological center of their party's bul for higher educa­tion it is a more dmnonstratcd confusion. But it's nut nearly as mark<•d for Bus·h as Gore on this issue." 
Pell grants have come to have fairly widespread sup­port among Republicans so Bush's proposal to direct more funding for Pell grants is not out of character, said Pierce. 
Despite using the issue of college aid to court middle class swing voters, higher 
nducalion in itself' is not a key issup, io the campaign, said Savage. 
"In tlrn past, higher educa­tion is only a key issue as rplated to others in presiden­tial campaigns," said Savage. "In the 1960 election, fJohn 
F.I Kennedy wanted to con­nect higher education with economic and technological growth in relation to the Cold War and the space race and used it to show how many murc engineers tlw Hussians 
were graduating than in tlrn 
U.S. But il's 1Hw1ir been an 
issun in itsoll'. Pierce agrend. "lligher education is not the 
level of cducatoin that is focused on," said Pierce. "Hathnr, the focus is often on e lti rn nII ta ry an cl s·<1 con d a ry <1ducation because it is not as symbolic an issue as nlcmen­tary and secondary educa­
tion." 


All New; All Yours: All Freil 
NladAdz 
that you can put towards 

vuelcol1,es 
.rent, tuition, books, or wJ\atever, · warded to tw!l students a day,University of Notre Dame live days a week, just for posting a classified on www.madadz.com. 
HOMES FOR RENT 


2001-2002 SCHOOL YEAR 
-Domus Properties has 4,5,6,7,8 and 10 bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 

Available for the 2001-2002 School Year 

BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 8 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219) 274-1501 or (219) 234-2436 or (219) 674-2572 







ATION 

Wednesday, October 11, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Death taints Sri Lanka vote: As Sri Lankans waited for the results of an election that could stop the 17-year civil war, they also grieved Tuesday for Sirimavo Bandaranaike, the matriarch or the nation's politics. Thousands grieved for Bandaranaike, 84, who died after casting her vote. Shelling by Tamil Tiger rebels, election-(we killings and the death of Bandaranaike, the world's first female µrime minister and the mother of the current prl'sident cast a pall over the parlia­mentary elrctions. 
U.N. says Israeli soldiers are safe: 
The United Nations is negotiating for the rPlease of thrr!e Israeli soldiers captured by Lebanese guerrillas over the weekend, U.N. Secrctary-(jeneral Kofi Annan said Tuesday, adding that he believed they were healthy. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
House names Guam time zone: 
The country's ninth time zone, sitting amid Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands, would be called Chamorro Standard Time under a bill passed by the House Tuesday. Since the first time zone bill was passed more than a century ago, various parts of the coun­try have received names for their time zones. There is Eastern Standard Time, Central Standard Time, Mountain Standard Time and even Hawaii/Aleutians Standard Time. Guam is 14 hours ahead of Eastern Standard Time. 
Congress seek oil export ban: Five congressmen from the Northeast called on President Clinton Tuesday to issue an execu­tive order banning the export of heating oil, saying the fuel "should not be sent to Europe" when U.S. supplies are low. While statistics are scarce, there has been evidence that refiners stepped up exports of heating oil Tuesday. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Police arrest Elkhart gang: Nine heavily-armed Elkhart men who told police they intended to shoot members of a rival gang were arrested early Sunday in what police are calling an example of growing gang influence here. The men, ages 15 to 23, were armed with an assault rifle, three loaded handguns, 35 pounds of ammunition and var­ious blunt weapons, said Goshen Detective Capt. Al Mackowiak. Police stopped the men, because they had illegally-tinted windows and out-of-town license plates and were weaving on the city's side roads. 
Market Watch 10/10 

Dow 
10,524.40 -44.03 
]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: Volume:
1.261 496 

1,181,5)(,,54/4 
AMEX: 922,42 -tOS). Nasdaq: 3240.54 -115.02 NYSE; 650.36 • . .'hl9 
5&1' 500: 1.387.02 -15.0 l 
• 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
ALTERA CORP (Al.TR)  -27.07  .11.06  2'J.al  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -H5  -1.50  37 56  
XILINX INC (XLNX)  ~21 .09  -16.68  ol.44  
CISCO SYSTE\1S (CSCO)  -4.  -2. 56  'Sl.12  
DEi.i. COMPUTER (DELL)  -\.37  -1.37  24.25  

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER wmE SERVICES page 5 
CHINA 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton signed the China trade bill Tuesday, a hard-fought victory for the White House that promises to open markets in the com­munist country to billions of dollars in U.S. goods and services. 
Even as he signed the bill, the president was dis­patching U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky to Beijing Tuesday night to nudge the Chinese to complete its agreements to join the World Trade Organization. Talks are stalled as China backpedals on details of its trade accords with the United States and other nations. 
"Our work is not over when I sign the bill. China still must complete its WTO accession agree­ments," Clinton said. "But when it happens, China will open its markets to American products from wheat to cars to consulting services, and our compa­nies will be far more able to sell goods without mov­ing facilities or invest­ments there." 
Clinton was joined at the ceremonv on the South Lawn bv several members of the cabinet and about 50 Republican and Democratic lawmakers. The measure passed the House 237-197 on Mav 24 after much arm-twis.ting by the White House. It eas­ily passed the Senate, 83­15, on Sept. 19. 

Not all Republicans dis­agreed with the president. Not all Democrats agreed. 
"In case you've all for­gotten, this thing was hard to pass," Clinton joked. "This was a lot of trouble." 
The measure establishes permanent trade relations with China. The United States had to scrap its annual review of China's trade privileges in order for U.S. Pxportrrs to gain the benefits of China's lower barriers. 
Labor, conservative groups and human rights campaigners argued that the annual review gave the United States a chance each year to pressure China on human rights, trade practices and weapons exports. 
Clinton maintained that opening markets to U.S. goods and services and strengthening U.S.-China relations would ease the way toward economic free­dom for China's more than 1 billion people. 
The bill still drew con­troversy Tuesday as Clinton signed. 

Pin fore es shuttle launch delay 
and its external fuel tank. about 8 ounces, has a 3-inch handle
Associated Press 
Engineers feared the pin could across the top, and is attached to a CAPE CANAVERAL blow into Discovery during liftoff and 10-inch cord, said launch commenta­
NASA was forced to call off possibly damage the shuttle. tor Joel Wells. Tuesday night's planned launch of ··we just can't get comfortable with NASA considered sending out a space shuttle Discovery because of a the pin," said launch director Mike team to try to remove the pin, but small metal pin found on a fuel line a Leinbach. He said another launch did not have tools long enough to few hours before liftoff. attempt would be made Wednesday reach it, Wells said. Managers dis­
The 4-inch pin was discovered evening -provided the pin can be cussed the possibility of dislodging after the seven astronauts had removed by then. the pin with streams of water or air, boarded Discovery and the count­It will be the fourth launch attempt but to no avail. down was underway fur NASA's in less than a week. The previous NASA must launch Discovery with 100th space shuttle launch. Workers delays were caused by gusty wind two new segments for the space sta­conducting a routine inspection of and mechanical problems. tion, and the pieces must be installed the shuttle spotted the pin on the liq­The pin. apparently a piece of before the outpost can be occupied uid-oxygen line between Discovery ground-support equipment, weighs full-time. 

Wednesday, October I I, 2000 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
Professors: candidates' tuition plans 01ay not work 

Most ND Students Make Healthy Choices 

Many ND stU1dents choose NOT to drink alcohol. 

More than 80% drink only once a week or less frequently.* 
A message from PILLARS with Alcohol & Drug Education 31 l Lafortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
(219) 631-7970 
http://www.nd.edu/-aldrug/ 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
A.ssociate News Editor 

Questions have been raised as to whether the plans for helping families pay for college put forth by prnsidnntial candidates Al Gore and George W. Bush will rrally benefit those who need the aid most. 
At the !wart of his plan. Gore's plan targets middle class fami­lies. llis plan would allow people paying for college to deduct $10,000 a year in tuition from their taxable income or take a $2.800 tax credit. The plan would primarily help middle class families earning between $40.000 to $120.000. Families curning over that amount would not be eligible for his proposed plan. 
While Gore calls for increased Pell grants. he docsn't allow for funding or the grants in his bud­get. Bush ·s plan focuses on fund­ing Pell grant,; and giving merit based scholarships Lo students but some wonder how much funding would be left for the grants after his proposed increases in defense spending. 
Mary Nucciaronc, director or !inancial aid at Saint Mary's, deals with families who will be affected by these proposals and questions whether those who need aid most will benefit from the candidates' proposals. 
"When you look strictly at income, it makes sense that Gore would target those earning between $40,000 to $120,000 because if your objective is to target middle class families, those figures are high but if you ask people making. for example, $100,000 a year, they consider 
and see themselves as  being  
middle  income,"  said  
Nucciarone.  

At Saint Mary's, based on 1,035 student..'i (66 percent of the student bodyl who filed for financial aid this year. the mcdi­an income in those students' families was $68,900. 
"If you are focusing on those families of Saint Mary's students, those families would certainly fall in the group that Gore is talking about targeting in his proposal," said Nucciarone. 
In many cases, tuition credits that the government now pro­vides docs uot benefit lower income families because the credit can't produce a refund for them based on their income so they don't benefit from the cred­it. said N ucciarone. 
"The idea of a tax credit that Gore proposes is a nice idea but I'm not sure if in terms of the cost of private education it would do much to decrease the cost and make it more afford­able to more people," said Nucciarone. 
Ciore may be missing the mark ol' those who really need aid for college by not funding more Pell grants and instead targeting the middle class. said Nucciaronc. 
"More Pell grants would cer­tainly be more beneficial," said Nucciarone. "That would affect and help nearly 200 Saint Mary's students. It would also give us [Saint Mary's) relief on our institutional budget to direct that money that would have gone to students receiving the Pell grants to other students who don't qualil'y for Pell grants." 
Nucciarone was skeptical of the $1.5 billion in merit-based scholarships proposed by Bush. 

Se1c Our Web page For Details On Cont('sts And Specials www.ml.~du/Nasc 
WEDNIIDA~, 
OCTOBER 25TH 
(FIRfT WEDMEID4YAf'TER BRE4K) 
CIT READY FOR 
posals is to make education available to a wider range of stu­dents in terms of income or if the goal is lo give more money to those who already have the means to go to college," said Nucciarone. 
"Aid programs tied to merit are not necessarily bad but they may not benefit those who truly need help," said Nucciarone. 
Many times, merit-based scholarships are earned by stu­dents who attend more al11uent schools or who are already get­ting scholarships from the col­lege they have chosen to attend, said Nucciaronc. 

"As a matter of public policy. we need to ask if what we arc trying to do through these pro-
CO/TUM.El, PRIXII, A.MD FUM
ATT'ilil~iff.iMAL 
Wednesday, October l l, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 7 
Jeb Bush: working hard for brother 
Gore pushes college 
Associai.,,I Press 
MIAMI 

Jeb Bush bristles at the notion that he hasn't cam­paigned hard enough for his brother, Hcpublican presiden­tial candi­
date Gt>orge 
W. Bush. 
"I'm bust­ing my hump," the Florida gov­ernor said Tuesday. ''I've raised 


a lot of Bush money;· I've campaigned when my brother has come in the state." 
But he has also said he's got his own slate to run. And lhal's something he has always clear­ly focused on more than the polilical aspects of his job. including campaigning. 
Some Hepublicans. very qui­clly. have sug:gcsted that Jeb Bush has not done as much as many expected. 
The responses he and his aides give boil down to people, time and money: 
. 
At least three of his ·staff members have gone to work for the Bush presidential campaign in Florida, and the spokesman for the state lottery in the gov­c rn or's administration, Leo DiBenigno. is working for George\-\'. in Miami. 

. 
Jcb Bush campaigns when­ever his brother or Hcpublican running mate Dick Cheney are in the state -so far nine times since the Hcpub!ican conven­tion. 


The governor said that just this week he also took personal time to go to Lakeland and state, our best strategist," said Miami to campaign for his Al Cardenas, chairman of the 
plan in the South 
older brother. And he has gone state llepublican Party. "He 
outside Florida to campaign, knows every inch of rtorida too, especially during the pri­from the Panhandle to the 
Associated P tess mary season. Keys." 
. While the presidential cam­"The irony of it is that if he 
BRADENTON, rla. 

paign could not give a figure were to spend every single soli­
Al Gore said Tuesday his for how much money Jcb Bush tary moment of every day cam­

plan to expand college tuition had helped bring in, Florida -paigning, he'd be c:r:iticized for tax breaks would dramatical­

at about $5.·6 million -is ignoring his duties as gover­
ly increase students' access behind only Texas and nor," Cardenas said. "It's a bal­

to higher

California in the amount of ance." 
educa­

money it has given to the cam­Jeb Bush also has done plenty 
t i o n 

paign effort, according to the of interviews with local media 
without 

Center. for Responsive Politics, about the presidential race leavingbased on the most recent during campaign cvnnts, 
t h e m 

Federal Elections Commission DiBenigno said. 
saddled 

report. The Democrats, hardly unin­
w i t h 

Jeb Hush "has lo walk a fine terested observers, say they 
debt. 

line," said• Susan Macl\1anus, a expected to sec the Florida gov­
T h e 

political science professor at ernor out campaigning more 
V i C C the University of South Florida. but don't think he makes much 
presi­

"Too much and it looks like his difference anyway, dent made his comments as 
older brother can't do it on his "People vote for people, not 
he divided his day between 


own. Too little and he's not a "/ would never live it down if 
commii­my brother didn't carry
t e d 
Florida. Imagine all the fami­
younger brother." ly gatherings for the next 20 
Earlier years when he looked at me 
this sum­
every time and said, 'What 
mer..Jeb 
Bush said happen in Florida?"' he knows his broth­
Jeb Bush 
er is 
Florida governor
counting on him. "I would 
never live it down if my brother rrears. But she also said she 
with the 12th grade."

didn't carry Florida." he said in doesn't expect him to hit the 
The Democrat was pushing

August. "Imagine all the family campaign trail by himself. 
his proposal to give families 

gatherings for the next 20 "It's natural when he appears 
back 28 percent of up to 

years when he looked at me with his brother," she said. "If 
$10,000 in college tuition, 

every time and said, 'What he appears by himself, it would 
saying that students for too 

happened in Florida?'" look like, Who's running for 
long have been forced to rely

"lie is our best asset in the president, Jeb or George?" 
on loans that leave them sad­
for their 
debate preparation and cam­
brothers," 
paigning in an important
said Bob Poe, 
state where he is threatening
chairman of 
Republican George W. Bush's 
tho• state 
expectations of victory. 
Democratic 
In focusing on education,
Party. 
he was emphasizing an issue 
MacManus. 
that traditionally works well 
the South 
for Democrats but on which 
Florida pro­
Bush has made inroads this 
fessor, said 
year.
she expects 
''I'd like to make the first 
to see more 
two years of college pretty
of Jeb in the 
much an expectation," Gore 
coming 
said at Manatee Community
weeks as 
College. "Education in this 
Election Day 
day and time should not stop 


dled with debt upon gradua­tion. 
"We have overdone our reliance on student loans," Gore said. "By the time they graduate, they've got a huge 

FALL BREAKALERT. .. 
Do not forget to bring back 
your coats froDl hoD1e! 
Nader criticizes Firestone tire sales 

debt." 
Republicans argue that Gore too often simply wants to throw more money at schools. Bush also has pro­posals to encourage students to go to college, including major scholarship and grant plans. 
"I don't think the answer is money alone," said Gore. But he added, "You still can't get the resull'> we need without more resources." 
In addition to increasing deductions for tuition, Gore said he would bolster exist­ing grant programs for youngsters. 
. "They fit together like a hand and glove," he said 
The vicA president was spending three days in Florida, mostly in private debate preparation with top aides. Still. he made a point of making a campaign appearance at the communi­ty college, hoping to make gains in Florida where the polls show the race is close. 
Gore held his event outside the college's student aid office, speaking briefly and laking friendly questions from about 60 selected stu­dents and teachers. 
With Bush's brother as governor. Florida had been considered a strong state for the Republicans. But Gore is pushing hard for the state's 25 electoral votes. 
Florida Democratic officials showed off a new television commercial they are begin­ning to run in the state criti­cizing Bush on environmen­tal issues. They plan to spend $850,000 over the next 10 days showing the ad in virtu­ally every market in the state. 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
Green Party presidential hopeful Ralph Nader criti­cized the auto industry on its own turf Tuesday, calling the F i r e ­s to n e t i r e recall "a classic

Begins Monday, October 
cover­up" and saying a u to ­

23, 2000! 
makers 
were lax Nader in push­ing to improve vehicle safety 
and fuel efficiency. 
The longtime consumer crusader also said federal traffic safety officials have become "consultants" who need greater power to charge corporate "fat cats" who knowingly allow defec­tive products to stay on the market. 
"We really have to have a little equity in law and order apply to the rich and power­ful," Nader told the Economic Club of Detroit.
He accused ford Motor Co. and Bridgestone/Firestone Inc. of a cover-up over "inherently unstable" Ford 


Explorers and the Firestone tires supplied with them that have been linked to 101 deaths in the United States and more than 50 overseas. 
"I think we really ought to raise our expectations really high in accordance with what this industry can do when it's put under pres­sure" of federal regulation, Nader said. 
Ford spokesman Ken Zino 
countered that the 
Explorer's track record 
"shows it to be one of the 
safest vehicles on the road." 
I le added that Ford believes 
the information it has sup­
plied federal investigators and Congress shows its actions in the tire recall "were in the best interest of our customers' safety." 
"We feel we acted appro­priately," Zino said, "We will continue to fully cooperate with whatever government officials necessary to show that criminal charges do not apply to Ford Motor Co." 
Noting his 1965 book "Unsafe at Any Speed" that criticized automakers for putting profits ahead of safe­ty, Nader opened Tuesday by joking that "invitations to the Detroit Economic Club do not come frequently to me, for obvious reasons." 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 8 BSERVER Wednesday, October I I, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo• Q. Notr< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Oini1ig }·fall. Norr< Dame, IN 46~56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANACfR Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
A.ssT. MANAGING EDITOR O!'ERAn0NS MANAGER Chrisrin<' Kraly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie M.mingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey Srmrrs EDITOR: Kerry Smith Sa;Ni; EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR, Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: EliLabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pac Peters AD OF.SIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSlFMS AflMINlHRATOR: Mike Gunville Wt:8 ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner COl'ITROLLER: !lob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICF MANAGfll/GF.NfRAL INFO........... 631-7471 FI\X.............................................................631-6927 AI>VF.RTISING ....................................,631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EunoR IN CHIEL.....................................631-4542 MANAGING EorToR/A.ssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................63I-53l3 NEWS........................................................ 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
Yll:WPOINT.................................................631-5303 observcr.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SrORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE........................................................631-4540 observer .scenc. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.. .......................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO...... . .................................. 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE 0BSER\IER ONLINE 

Visit our Web sire at bttp:llob,erver.,ided11 for daily upda1es ofcampus nc-ws, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as car1oons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/ music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advcrti>C for policies 

online featuccs for spe­
and rates of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
Augusc 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. Editorial conrem, including adverrisemencs, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institu11on. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, As.sisram Managing Editor and departmcn t editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewroim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contacc information. 
Q1mtrom r,gttrding Obmwrpolicies 1houfd bt direct• ,Jw Editor in ChiifMik, Camw~y. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Learn to accept differences 
Today is National Coming Out Day, which means that our community is once again being confronted with the issue of sexual orientation. It is no secret that this issue has becrn highly explosive on our campuses in the past and there is a great possibility that today will be no different. What I would like to suggest. however, is that it should be. 
There are extremely strong opinions on all sides ol' this issue and it is neces­sary and good that there be an ongoing dialogue concerning them. Because this is such an emotional issue for so many people, discussion tends to emphasize areas of ideological dis­agreement. Lost in the debate over our differences arc the important thing we all have in common. 
Discussing the inappropriate 
I didn't go to the football games last year. I didn't have any money when it was time to buy football tickets so I didn't get tickets. I did. however, watch every game on television, and I enjoyed that. I didn't really feel like I was miss­Marlayna ing a lot. particu­
Soenneker 

larly when the 
weather was bad 
and everybody else llere We Go 
had to troop oIT to Again 
see the game in the 
freezing cold. 
I did get football tickets this year, and I've been to three of our four home games so far. I've found that I did miss a lot of things at the games. I missed the marching band, the team running on the field, the excitement and electricity in the air, the alma mater and the team raising their helmets in salute to the stu­dent body. These are all important parts of the tradition that I simply didn't get a chance to experience while watching the games on television. 
But unfortunately there have been other experiences I've had this year that almost make me wish I was still watch­ing television in the dorm. First among these is the experience I've had at two of the three games l've attended. At these games, I have had the opportunity to spend the entire game listening to really drunk guys on various sides ofme dis­cuss sex loudly, extremely graphically and in a really disgusting way. 
Now, I know that pretty much all guys discuss sex and probably most of them spend some time discussing it in that sort of detail. But most guys are smart enough not to do this in front of girls and when, by accident, they do, they are decent enough to be embarrassed. 
Case in point: Sometimes my dining hall job requires me to run about cam­pus and deliver what arc known as fam-
First and foremost I hope that we all agree that every person in our commu­nity deserves and needs respect. love and support, The fact of the matter is that there are people hern who do not consider themselves heterosexual. · Hegardless of what each of us thinks about that fact, they arc part of our community and we should all make them feel welcome. National Coming Out Day is a chance to acknowledge that someone you know and love (though you may not exactly know who) is gay. You may dispute their lifestyle, their actions, their choices but you cannot dispute their humanity. 
Contrary to its name, today is much more that a day to "come out." It is a day to demonstrate solidarity with those who are struggling with this 
ily ties. the cakes and cookies that par­ents send to their children for important events. I was doing this a couple weeks ago in a guys dorm. I got to the recipi­ent's door and knocked. No one answered. Behind me, I could hear some guys discussing sex rather graphi­
cally in their room. I knocked on the other two doors near the right guy's door, but no one was home. 
So I finally knocked on the door with ttte sex-discussing 

guys just as it opened. setting like a football There, in the doorway, game. was a guy wearing noth­But get some of these ing but a towel. He same guys drunk and all looked at me. I looked at of a sudden they don't him. He sort of turned care whether there's a around and said "Hey. girl around or whether guys! There's a girl out they arP standing in an here." Two other guys all girl group. That's sort of peered around really rude and I don't him and looked at me. think that being drunk They all looked sort of is an excuse for being guilty. I could tell all an offensive idiot. If three of them were rack­these guys can't contr.ol ing their brains, wonder­what they say when they ing what they'd just said, are drunk, then maybe how offensive it was and they shouldn't get so drunk how long I had been out in the before the game. hall. I have a right to go to f'ootball 
I explained that I needed the guy across the hall and they were really nice. They told me I had the wrong room and told me where I needed to be and even helped me carry the stuIT over there. They really were nice guys who had been caught having a locker room moment and felt bad about it. 
Cut to last Saturday at the game. l'm happily standing in the stands, minding 
. my own business. when I am treated to a graphic discussion of what one of the cheerleader's thighs make the guy behind me want to do and how he wants to go about doing it. I get to listen to a general, game-long banter among these 

.-----ing more than sex objects or pieces of meat isn't appropri­ate, particularly in a public 
issue, Hegardless of' your personal stance, today is a day to acknowledge the presence of sexual divPrsity in our community. Soil" you sec someone wearing a rainbow ribbon. interpret it as a sign of their respect for all people no matter what their sexual orienta­tion. Take it as nothing more and noth­ing less and ask where you can get one. 
Tomorrow we can continue to talk about our difforences, but let today be a day to celebrate our love and respect for everyone in our community. 
Katie Poynter 
Senior LcMans Hall Ocrnl>er l0. 2000 
guys around me about what they want to do, to whom and why. 
Any non-drunk guy that I know here would have taken one look at me and my friend and thought seriously about attempting to die out·of embarrassment on the spot. Most of the guys I know arc really decent guys who realize that talk­
ing about women like they arc noth­

games and not be subjectc1d to some of the raunchiest discussions of sex l've ever heard. (Discussions where the word sex is never actually used to rcf'cr to the act.) I want to leave the game feeling excited about wining, not nauseated by the guys around me. Otherwise. I might as well just watch it on television. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a sophomore psychology major. lier column appear~ every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
I JU5T MET WITH TH[ BIR.DA.BON SOCIETY. I HAD TO PROMISE WE WON'T HURT ANY BIRDS.  OUR CATERER SERVED CHICKEN 5A.NDvJICHE$ FOR. LUNCH.  I PRETENDED TO GIVE MINE CPR BUT I WA.5 REALL''( EATING IT.  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"People whofightfire withflre usually end up with ashes." 
Abigail VanBuren first lady 
..: 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Wednesday, October 11, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
Taking action against world hunger 
Oct. 16 is World Food Day. If someone asked you, "How many people are there in the world and how many of them am hungry?" or "How many people are there in the United States and how many of them are hungry?'' what 
csc

would you say'? 
The world popula­tion is morn than six For A More billion people. 
Just and 

Globally, 30 years 
Humane 

ago, there wero 
World

close to one billion undernourished people in the developing world. Today there are about 800 million -in spite of a two billion rise in population. 
The population of the L'nitcd States is more than 260 million. We have seen a 12 percent drop since 1995 in the num­ber of Americans facing hunger, but there arc still 31 million people who grappled with hunger or at least the fear of it in 1999. 
Why are people hungry? It's not because there is not enough food. It's not nature's fault. It's not because there arc too many people. People are hungry for many reasons but the major ones include poverty and warfare. 
But what can be done? 
There is hope. As the above data shows. we have made progress. We need to do more. There are strategies to end global and national hunger, includ­ing broad-based economic growth to create jobs; debt cancellation to release funds for hunger and poverty reduction in the debt-ridden countries; education and health care programs to give people the skills and care thev need to be active participants in their w·orlds; and an increase in opportunities for people to have a say in the decisions that affect their lives. 
The United States can help. For an additional $5 billion a year ($18 a por­son) invested in nutrition programs, in only a few years the number of American people who arc hungry or food insecure could be cut in half. For just $1 billion more, it could do its part to cut world hunger in half by 2015. That total -$6 billion -is less than one-third of one percent of the federal budget. 
What can you do? 
When it comes to ending hunger, most people think they can .only make a tem­porary difference by working at food pantries or serving meals at a soup kitchen. And doing things like that is important. But, believe it or not, you can do more. 
You can learn more about hunger problems. 
Bread for the World is a Christian citi­zens' movement dedicated to advocating specific policy changes to help overcome hunger in the United States and over­seas. Check out its web site: http://www.bread.org. 
Donating food is another way to help. "The Hunger Site" (http://www.the­hungersite.com) is the world's first "click-to-donate" site where more than 88 million visitors have donated more than 10 thousand metric tons of free food to help feed the hungry. The dona­tions are paid for by The Hunger Site's sponsors and are distributed by the United Nations World Food Programme. 
Without much effort or time you could easily become nationally involved. You could even act today! Set aside five min­utes to write your members of Congress and ask them to cosponsor the Hunger Relief Act (}·1.R. 3192). This act includes provisions to restore food stamps to all low-income legal immigrants and increase funding for emergency food pantries. To look up the names of repre­sentatives or find tips on writing letters, you can visit http://www.bread.org/issues/index.html. It's important to act now because the congressional session is winding down! 
As the election draws closer, think about how you will vote. Include in your considerations what your local and national candidates are doing about hunger and poverty. Where is it on their priority list'? Check out their records through Network: A National Catholic Social Justice Lobby (www.networklob­by.org) or Common Cause, a nonprofit, nonpartisan citizen's lobbying organiza­tion that promotes open, honest and accountable government (http://com­moncause.org). 

You could become involved locally by signing up with the World Hunger Coalition to donate one meal each week from your food plan. E-mail Lisa Brintnall (Brintna1L1@nd.edu). 
Notre Dame's first ever "Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week" will be Nov. 13 through Nov. 17. If you'd like to get involved, e-mail either Rene Mulligan (Mulligan.12@nd.edu) or Meghan Gallagher (Gallagher.55@nd.edu). 
As Pope John Paul II said, "With the means available today, poverty. hunger and disease can no longer be regarded as either normal or inevitable." 
Join in the movement to end hunger. Together we can make a difference. 
"For a More Just and Humane World" is a bi-weekly column in The Observer. Rene Mulligan is a senior majoring in the Program ofLiberal Studies with an interdisciplinary minor in Peace Studies. • 
The views expressed here are those of the author and not necessarily the views of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Supporting the right to express op1n1ons 
Before I begin, perhaps I should tell you that I am neither Catholic nor conservative. Nor am I pro-choice or pro-life. I don't see that issue in black-and-white. And, so, this letter does not address the actual matter of abortion. 
!leading Maribel Morey's article in The Observer on Monday, Oct. 
9. I was reminded of a story my father would tell on some occasions when he returned from work. Across from his office was an abortion clinic. Every week, a lone man would stand outside of that clinic and beg each woman entering, "Please, Ma'am, don't kill your baby." That is all he would say. But I was struck cold by his words and felt very badly for the women who had to hear this even as they were making what must have been a profoundly difficult journey. 
But as I thought more about this unidentified man's actions, it occurred to me that he had every right to do what he was doing. And the Right to Life group that sponsors the "Innocents' Cemetery" has the same right. Confrontational speech is often the by-product of emotional debate. We do not lose our rights to freedom of speech or thought when we accept Notre Dame's invitation. 
Yes, we arc a family. And we must support each other to the last breath. But being in a family does not mean that we turn a collective blind eye when we truly feel that one of our ovvn is making a hurtful choice. 
Finally. I note that Ms. Morey bemoans the unavailability of University-sanctioned condoms. Even as a (non-Catholic) student, I wondered why some ofmy classmates felt they had the right to sug­gest (demand?) that Notre Dame change its policies to adopt new practices in contravention of the Church's teachings and/or man­dates. I find myself wondering that same thing right now. Out of step with reality or "the times?" Perhaps. But you knew where you were going to school. That does not mean that you don't have the right to disagree. Just don't be shocked when "things" don't change. 
Debate, even argument, is healthy-even among members of our family. 
Brant Beckett 
Class of '89 
October 9, 2000 

Questioning morality of embryo testing 
In Response to Charles Rice concerning "Human embryo research destroys life," Oct. 10, I have to ask myself this, is this guy for real? It seems as if this man is trying to bully and intimidate me with words seemingly copied from a bad science fiction novel, "In our pagan culture of death ... " and with allusions to scenes from the Holocaust, "But how is killing them different from what the Nazis did in harvesting the organs of Jews ... " He claims that research with human embryos is destroy­ing a life, but what about those with "Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, heart disease, dia­betes. spinal cord injuries, burns and other ail­ments?" 
Isn't their life affected bv their trauma? I doubt Mr. !lice would hardly take the same stance on this case if he was afflicted with one of these illnesses and was not allowed treat­ment because of lack of federal funding. This seems to be more an issue of "If the Catholics believe it. it must be right," rather than an issue dealing with human rights. 

The author also refers to "unalienable rights by his Creator." And what creator is this?! His mother? Not everyone believes in the same creator here. sometimes people seem to forget that. The small voice while reading this article was saying that "This is wrong" Charles Rice. and I hope I have made that clear. 
Peter Prina Keenan Hall October 10, 2000 


C 
s
en@ 

p:1ge 10 Wednesday, October 11, 2000 

By SCOTT LITTLE 
Scene Wrirer 
"Pangborn Phoxes: Hall of the Year 1999-2000." The banner hangs proudly over the front doors of the odd-looking dorm at the end of South Quad. 
Pangborn·s more than 200 resi­dents are proud of their home, despite its Jess-than-appealing exte­rior. The location offers easy access to South Dining Hall, the Hock, D6, the golf course and the lakes. 
Pangborn's brother dorm, Fisher Ila!!, was remodeled during the summer of 2000, and Pangborn is slated for renovation at the end of this academic year. 
Two lions guard the front of Pangborn, along with a 24-hour-a­day dctex system designed to keep the Phoxes safe. Once escorted in by a resident, one can find charm in Pangborn's eccentric style of archi­tecture. Recent additions to the dorm include throw blankets and pillows to compensate !'or not-so­attractive lounge furniture, and a smattering of plants to add warmth to the cinder-block construction. 
The chapel, home to Sunday and Wednesday mass. is perhaps the most attractive aspect of the dorm. It features green enameled brick architecture with stained glass win­dows, one of which is featured in 
the  "Windows  of  Notre  Dame"  
poster.  
The residents'  rooms  are  among  

the biggest on campus and boast triple-wide \Vindows. The women of Pangborn take pride in making their own space comfortable and attrac­

De-stress during midterms with Web sites, joke 
\1idtcrm week 2000 is here. Many of us will work hurl to get the grades we deserve. And in between working hard, many of us will be taking the all-impor­tant study break. This should never be underestimat­ed. Resting up in between studying is comparable to 
phying MegaMan -if you want to shoot a big bullet, you have to save up your power. So here arc two suggestions to make the week easier. and then a joke to lighten things up. 
Visit Uglypeoplc.com. This Web si1e has been in existence for quite some time now. But that doesn't m 'lttcr, because there are so 1mny ugly people in the world. There will always be more pie­tu res of newly-discovered ugly p1•ople to look at. What this site consists of is 13 galleries of ugly women and 13 galleries or ugly m,)n, all for you lo view and laugh at in the comfort of your own room or computer cluster space. This is a really gmat idea. 

You will just feel sorry for some of the people fea­tun·d. They probably don't know they are on the lnLernet and being laughed at everyday, and they probably have had a hard enough life already -hav­ing lo go lhrough it being so ugly, 
There are also some people that just don't seem ugly mrnugh to be on a Web site for ugly people. I feel sorry 
Scott little 
just a little 
Proud Pangborn phoxes boast 'Hall of the Year' 
tive. Each double room is f'urnislrnd with plenty of' overhead storage space, built-in closets, and a shared dresser. With four singles, two triples, two "six-mans" and many quads, residents have many options when it comes to style of living. 
Phnxos aro never at a loss for a place to work, socialize or strengthen community. The dorm has an air-con­ditioned 24-hour space on the l'irst floor, study lounges on the first and third lloor and a social space with big screen television and a kitdwn in the basement. 
The Pangborn community considers themselves very service-oriented. With more than 15 programs last year alone, these women work to serve their own llall f'amily and the Notre Dame community, as well as the South Bend area at large. Bcsidenls have created such programs as the Congo T-Shirt Drive, the Price is Hight and a kindness chain. 
In addition to community service, Pangborn is famous for its dances. which have been known to send boys to the grotto, hoping to be invited. In the fall the dorm hosts the Phoxf'irc, which was cancelled this yeardue to weather conditions. In the spring, the Phoxes host lhe Spring Fling in con­junction with Fisher's annual Fisher Hcgatta. 
The phoxes of Pangborn are a close­knit and spirited group, but arguably the most famous or all Pangborn resi­dents was George Wendt, or "Cheers" fame, who resided in 34-36. If' "Norm" were a Phox today, he would surely be a proud resident of Pangborn I lall. 
Kate Steer contributed to this report. 
for them as well. There is this one guy with a cone­shaped head that has this sad look in his eyes, like he is saying, "I sure could 

us art 
use a friend instead 
~. l.,,,,,,.,

of this cone-shaped head." I feel bad for 
v 

him and I want to 
be is friend. 
Some of the thumbnail pictures arc hard to see, and you can't tell just how amazingly ugly the person is until you enlarge their picture. One warning -some of the people are naked. Their private parts are covered up, but the extra skin really lets you know that they are ugly all over their bodies. 
All this site contains is ugly people. Go look at them, and laugh at them, and be glad you are not one of them. And if you arc one of them, submit your picture so the rest of us can laugh at you. Or another option would be never to go outside and instead get a big mir­ror and laugh at yourself. You could keep your ugliness a secmt, your very own funny ugly secret. 
If ugly people aren't your thing, then you may get a giggle at Bullseycart.com. This site has a lot of car­toons, some of which are incredibly offensive, while others are pointless and complete wastes of time. The two I recommend are in the archives. "Jlooptie-Goo·s 1 laikus" and "Episode 1 of Porkchops" ought to relax your overworked brain. 
Photo from Bullseyean.com 

And finally, here is a joke for everyone who has a midterm. I did not write this joke. I am retyping it l'or the joke's reuse and enjoyment. I think it is a good joke for Notre Dame: 
The time has come for St. Peter's annual three-w<ick vacation, and Jesus volunteers to Iii! in for him at the Pearly Gates. "It's no big deal," St, Peter explains to Jesus. "Just sit at the registration desk, and ask each person a little aboul his or her life. Then sond ltwm on lo housekeeping lo pick up lheir wings." On thn third day, Jesus looks up to see a b(iwildcrcd old man stand­ing in front of him. 
'Tm a simple carpenter, "says the man. "And once I had a son. lie was born in a very special way, and was unlike anyone else in this world. lie went through a great transformation even though he had holes in his hands and feet. Ile was taken from me a long time ago, but his spirit lives on forever. All over the world people tell his story." By this lime, Jesus is standing with his arms outstretched. There arc tears in his eyes, and he 
embraces the old man. "Father," he criPs out. 
uglypeople.com "It's been so long!" The old man squints, star(is for a moment, and says, "l'irHH.:chio'!" 
The views cxpressl'd in this column are those of I.he author and rwt necessarily those of The Observer. 
Photo from uglypeople. com 



Wednesday, October 11, 2000 page 11 

MARY CALASHffhe Observer 

Angela Lyzinski, sophomore, chats on the phone and Meghan Myers, sophomore, studies diligently while the two relax and enjoy their Cavanaugh Hall dorm room. 
Spirited Cavanaugh dedicated to service, tradition 
By I.AURA KELLY 
Assistant Scene Editor 
t Most students pass by the corner dorm on North Quad without realizing that chaos reigns inside. This is Cavanaugh Hall, home of the "Chaos" and 232 spirit­ed Notre Dame women. "The 'Naugh is known for not only its great location but for its unique, conta­gious spirit, which is captured in our 
mascot. the Cavanaugh Chaos," said Sister Patricia Dearbaugh, four-year rec­tor of the dorm. 
Built in 1936, Cavanaugh was named after Father John Cavanaugh, the presi­dent of Notre Dame from 1905 to 1919. He was known as "Notre Dame's ambas­sador" and according to Dearbaugh, "the women of Cavanaugh carry on his tradi­tion of ambassadorship through service to the community." 
Cavanaugh became a women's dorm in 1994, and has been focused on establish­ing traditions ever since. 
Among the activites that Cavanaugh is known for is the '"Naugh Fest," a spirit week held every spring that concludes with an SYR. Another 'Naugh dance is the Snowball. a winter formal held in the first week of February. 
"The Snowball is our longest-standing tradition," said Dearbaugh. The dance features a swing dance contest whose winners are crowned the "Snow King and Queen." Cavanaugh also hosts a Father­Daughter Weekend. in which dads come in to visit their daughters and dance the night away at the College Football llall of Fame. 
"We have lots of wonderful traditions that we hope to keep going," said Dcarbaugh. 
One important Cavanaugh tradition has been Lhe dorm's dedication to service. "We're a highly spiritr.d dorm." said 
Dearbaugh. "The women are dedicated to the community of the hall and work to extend that community out to Notre Dame and the greater South Bend area through service." · 
Many Cavanaugh womNi pafffcipate in various forms of servif"e, including tutoring and fundraising projects. The dorm's main project is serving at "nrL 
raising money for St. r,,,,argaret's House, a shelter in dow·~town South Bend. ,. 
"Almost everyone is i;Ttvolved in ser­vice of some kind," said~resident assis­tant Kathleen Fanning, "The girls of Cavanaugh are very gen-us with giv­ing their time to the comn1f.mity." 
This service is often ;,nvolved with spiritual concerns. "Sviritual life is very important at the~ 'Naugh. We come together in many ~.\s to share our faith. especially at Sunday night liturgies," said Dearbaugh. Bible study and prayer services aFc offered and attended by many Cavanaugh women. 
Another strength of Cavanaugh is the unity and closeness among its resi­dents. "Each section is its own family and has a life of its own." said Fanning. "We do lots of section events in addition to dorm activities." 
Cavanaugh's efforts arc clearly pay­ing off as the dorm creates a name for itself. Others have recognizes its spirit as well, since Cavanaugh has been runner-up for "Dorm ol' the Year" two years in a row. 
"Community service is definitely the strf'ngth of this dorm." said Fanning. "I think people arc starting to recog­nize our dorm's reputation for and committment to service." 
It is clear that the "chaotic" women of North Quad are establishing a tradi­tion of' spirit and service in Cavanaught Hall lhat wilL continue for years to come. 

MARY CALASH/The Observer 

Valerie Baur, freshman, plays a game of pool in the basement of Cavanaugh. 
,------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----­
page 12 Wednesday, October 11, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 

MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Stanford hopes to extend season, Morrissey hopes for first win 
By SUSIE CARPENTER and 
KATIE HUGHES 
Sports Writer, 
Two different mindsets will meet tonight in Stanford's game against Morrissey. As both close out their regular seasons. a win for Stanford is a necessity if they hope to play in the post season. 
At 1-2. a victory tonight will guarantee them a berth in the playoffs. Undiscouraged abr,ut their loss last week. the Griffins are det1:rmincd to clinch the win. Stanford coach. Errol Hict~. is confident about his team's ability to perform. 
"If' WP play the game we want to play, we should come out on top," Rice said. 
Hice says he hopes to main­tain the same basic strategy for tonight's match-up but wilh some improvements on offense. 
"We need to th row a lot more and see what we can get going on the running game.'" he said. 
Hice expects to sec some key performances from tailback JC Perez, running back Mike Profeta and quarterback Nick Bef'era. As a young team, he also will look to the freshmen to make a big impact. 
The Manor has had a disap­pointing season thus far with a record of" 0-3. With several close losses and with no chance of playoff action. Morrissey intends to finish the season strong. 
"[This year] we just haven't produced on offense and we gave up plays on defense," captain Edward Hernandez said. "We're going to go out there and just play." 
Contrary to Stanford, Morrissey has nothing to gain or lose. 
"We are going to play hard and play tough," Hernandez said of his strategy. 
He will also look to the lead­
{1 rsh ip of defensive end Joe 
Larson and tailback Josh Rife 
to dominate on the field and 
to carry Morrissey to a win. 
"Joe Larson is an unstop­pable defensive end. He's a truck," llernandez said. "And if Josh Rife comes through with a solid game, ii could be an exciting night." 
Keough vs. O'Neill 
Tonight Keough will be lighting for their last possible shot at the playoffs. while O'Neill will be trying to end a tough season with a victory. The Kangaroos lost to Alumni on Sunday. while the Angry Mob was shut out by Keenan. 
"We're looking for our first win ever against Keough," O'Neill captain Josh Rich said. "We know that we can beat this team because we scrim­maged them this week and had a good look at their defense. We're just as moti­vated as Keough. We've really improvPd this season and got­ten a lot more organized." 
The Angry Mob will depend on quarterback Phil Irvine and running back Alex Jackson to shut down the Kangaroo defense. 
"We're gonna pretty much take it to 'em," Keough cap­tain Hyan Yorkery said. "This season we were pretty confi­dent after our first win but our last two losses made our players a little less confident. We kept it pretty intense against Alumni, and we have to go out with that mentality again." 
Keough will rely on quarter­back Andy Hess and fullback Kevin McAbee. 
"We hope to come out with a solid victory," Yorkery said. "I know everyone would be pumped up if we made it to the playoffs. But it's bad when it depends on the outcomes of other games." 

The Observer accepts classifieds eveiy business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r-m. ,11 rhe Norrc Dame ulftcc,o;4 Suurh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.rn. Al classified, must be prepaid. 
T'.)e charge is 3 cencs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserve, the right to edit all· classifieds for contenc without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
-----------------------------..,_:-----------------------------------------­
LOST & FOUND 
LOST-Canon zoom camera on 9/29. Drop off in 220 Main Bldg. Or call 513-703-2990. No questions asked. 
FOUND!! Fossil Steel watch found outside of Rolf Os Center Please caII 631­
3825. 
TICKETS 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL ThTS 289-9280 
Help! Ineed two tickets for Boston College for my parents! Call 284-4446 
SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 
VICTORY TKTS BUY'SELL'TRADE ND FOOTBALL 
232-0964 
www.viclorytickets.com 
BUY/SELL NO TICKETS 273-3911 ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 
A.M. -232-2378 
P.M. -288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE 
A.M. -232-2378 
P.M. -288-2726 
2 ND/USC Tix + Airfare GOTO alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_satc 
FOR SALE, FOOTBALL TICKETS, 
ALL GAMES E272-7233 
I NEED 4 BC TtX'TOGETHER CAN PAY ONLY $200. CALL 243-1621. 
For sale 2 GA tix Air Force 287­1449 
Selling 6 tickets for ND v. Navy Call Jen at 277-8620. 
FOR RENT 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email• mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­9487. 
WANTED 
Tutoring needEJ jn Win2000/Netwirk·MCSE. 
Please call 277-4:J,! 
UCONNEG,i:JO~ COMl.Jiring part­time po~wl'I~. no. experie'nce required. Contact zallen@nd.edu 
EARN MONEY OVER FALL BREAK The Early Childhood Development Center at Notre Dame has employment opportunities for Fall Break (October 16-20) for indi­viduals who enjoy young children. II you are interested in spending time reading childrenOs books, building with blocks, and singing songs with children, please contact Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 as soon as possible. Have fun and get paid! 
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­MENT CENTER PAID OPPORTU­NITIES Earn money and resume experience. The Early Childhood Development Center at the University of Noire Dame is current­ly accepted applications from col­lege students for part time employ­ment opportunities. The opening is tor M-F 12:15-1 ;jQ (the position could be divided into MWF and TTH positions.) If you are interested in applying, please contact Thayer Kramer, Program Director, at 631­3344 for more information and an application Need childcare 11 , our Granger home. Tues. ano rhurs. Musi have transportation c,111 271-1935. 
NANNY WAI\~: 25-35 hrslwe~ontacl Krista @ 425-793-120~ for more info or email KROBKE@CE:l'lWER.COM 
NOTl~ES 
COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 300,000 + private sector scholar­ships available fo, undergraduate and graduate students at accredit­ed colleges in lht:: Usa regardles$ of their GPA, financ~s. age or citizen­ship. Write or call 1or FREE intor­malion and application ' Scholarship Database Service P O Box 432 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0432 Bamyard8961 @hot­mail.com 1-800-936-3706 
FOR SALE 
SPRING BREAK 2001 -Jamaica, Cancun, Barbados. More. Hiring Campus Reps -2 Free Trips! Free Meals-Book by 11/3. Call 1-800­426-7710 or sunsplashtours.com. 
#1 Spring Break 2001 NCancun, Mazatlan, acapulco, Jamaica, Florida & sPadre Reliable TWA flights. Best Prices Earn $$$ or 
FREE trips-call for C1e1ailsl 
1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentex­press.com 

Spring Break 2001 Book group of 15 and GO FREE! Book before Nov. 3ior FREE Meals! Visit us at sunsplashtours.com or call for free info@ 1-800-426-7710 
ATTN FACULTY & STAFF Great house for sale by owner. 1 mile north of campus in "Fernwood at Cleveland " Days 243-6040 ext 231 Will e-mail amenities dhickey@carletoninc.com 
Videotape your next on or off cam­pus party' www.1cecoldvideo.com 
'88 Ford Taurus, 6-cyl , stereo wlcassette player. Well maintained by responsible female. $2,000/obo Lv. msg at 291-5366 
PERSONAL 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30 a.m.-M1dnighl Fri: 7.30 a.m.•7:00 pm Sat: Noon-6:00 p.m. Sun. Noon-Midnight Phone 631-COPY 
GET WELL MARY!!! 
WE NEED YOU'!! Love, Your friends at The Observer 
Only FOUR WHOLE DAYS U!itil 
LAS VEGAS, BABYI 
two more papers and four mo:e 
days 
not that I'm counting 
okay, I'm counting 
Finn, thanks tor the chair ballot E 
and knocking me down on m~ tele­
phone books 
Kate and Jose -had anothe great drita Monday. 
hey kalie metz1, good luck on your 
exams today and tomorrow! 
tor a good time. go lo room 303 alumni hall, that is, if you coniiider it a good time watching care bears and transformers! 
hello markus darlin'. hope that your day is lull Of joyl 
zacky, are you thinking of fabJfous brott1erly duties that you can perform lor your awesome adopted sister? 
that goes for you too rnary! 
kate, kris and lauren, hope ycu all have a fab break and don't miss living with me too much! 
helllloooo kelle! have a good Jne 
just one more paper, i will survive! 


Wednesday, Ocmber l 1, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture invites you to its inaugural conference: 

Schedule ofPresentations 
Thursday, October 12, 2000 
7:30 rM • Judge John T. Noonan, Jr. 
Court ofAppeals for the Ninth Circuit 
"Cooperation in Intentionally lnRicting Death" 
CCE Auditorium 

Friday, October 13, 2000 
9:00 AM • Alasdair MacIntyre 
Univmity ofNotre Dame 

"A Culture of Choices and Compartmentalization" 
CCE Auditorium 

10:30 A M • Concurrent Sessions 
(A) Legislative and Judicial Issues at the Beginning of Life• CCE Auditorium 
Helen Alvan:~, Columbus Schqo[ ofLau,, Catholic University ofAmerica 
Gerald Bradley, Notre Dame law School 
(B) Caring for the Disabled in a Liberal Polity• CCE, Rm 210-214 
Hans Reinders, Vnje Universiteit Amsterdam 
"The Future of the Disabled in Liberal Society: Further Thoughts" Commentators: 
Paul Weithman, University ofNotre Da11fle 
F. Russell Hittinger, University of Tulw 
1:30 eM • H. Tristram Engelhardt, Jr. 
Rice University 

"After Christendom: The Moralization of Religion and the Culture of Death" 
CCE Auditorium 

3: 15 PM • Concurrent Groups 
(A) The Concept of Culture • CCE Auditorium 
E. Jane Doering, University ofNotre Dame "Simone Weil and the Death of Cultures" 
John W Carlson, Creighton Umvmity 
"The Paradox of a 'Culmrc of Death': An Elucid.uion in Light of Karol Wojtyla/John Paul Il's Philosophy of Culture" 
J. Daryl Charles, Taylor University "Obfuscating Orwell: The Collapse of Communication as a Prelude to PoliticalTyranny" 
(B) Capital Punishment • CCE, Rm 210-214 
Philip E. Devine, Providence College­"Capital Punishment: The Paradoxes of Abolitionism" 
Richard Garnett, Notre Dame Law School 
"Volunteering for Capital Punishment" Steven Long, University ofSt. Thomas "Evangelium Vitae, St. Thomas Aquinas, and the Death Penally" 
(C) Virtue and the Culture of Death • CCE, Rm 112-111 
Rebecca Konyndyk DeYoung, Calvin College "Aquinas's Paradigm ofCourage: Power Made Perfect in Weakness" 
Robert C. Miner, Boston College 
"Atavistic Subversions of Human Dignity: The 'Culture of Death' as a Return to Barbarism" 
Moira Walsh, Boston College 
"Vulnerability and Freedom" 
(D) Political Theory and the Culture of Death• CCE, Rm 202 
Donald Uitvlugt, University ofNotre Drtme "The Culture of Death and the City of Man: A Comparison Between Evangelium Vitae and De Gvitate Dei" 
Benjamin J. Bruxvoort Lipscomb, Univer.rity ofNotre Dame "'Get Big or Get Out': The Culmre ofDeath as a Problem ofScale" Travis White, St. John's University "John Paul II and MacIntyre on Human Rights" 
7:30 r.M • Helen Prejean 
Sisters ofSt. Jouph ofMedaille 

"Dead Man Walking-The Journey" 
CCE Auditorium 
Saturday, October 14, 2000 
9:00 AM. • Concurrent Sessions 

(A) 
Sidney Callahan, Mercy College • CCE, Rm 210-214 "Isolation and Indifference: The Icy Path to A Culture of Death" 

(B) 
Paul E. Sigmund, Princeton University• CCE Auditorium "Jubilee 2000, Debt Forgiveness, and Third World Poverty'' 


I0:30 A.M • Concurrent Sessions 

(A) Catholic Feminism and the Culture of Death • CCE Auditorium Panelists: Helen Alvare, Columbus School ofLaw, Catholic 
University ofAmerica Margaret Monahan Hogan, King's College Maura Ryan, University ofNotre Dame 
(B) Bioethical Dilemmas• CCE, Rm 210-214 

Gilbert Meilaender, Valparaiso University 
"Stem Cell Research: Probing the Limits of Compassion" 
I:30 PM • The Culture of Death and the Arts 

Ralph Mcinerny, Unimsity ofNotre Dame 
"The Death of Culture and the Culture of Death" 
Thomas Hibbs, Bo5ton College 

"Free to Choose: Hollywood Nihilism and Mainstream America" 
CCE Auditorium 
3:15 PM.• Concurrent Group Sessions 

(A) Capital Punishment• CCE, Rm 210-214 Joseph Capizzi, Catholic University ofAmerica 
"The Authority to Punish/" 
Christian Brugger, lo_yo/.a University 

"Capital Punishment and the Catechism of the Catholic Church: The Teaching of the Magisterium Interpreted" 
(B) Social Aspects of the Culture of Death • CCE, Rm 112-114 
Scott Moore, Baywr University "Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness: The Culture of Convenience as a Culture of Death'' 
Vincent D. Rougeau, Notre Dame Law School 
"The Role of Catholic Social Teaching in Containing Individualism" 
Christian F.R. Illies, University ofEssen 
"Death in the Time of Cinema" 
(C) Particular Dilemmas • CCE Auditorium Karen Stohr, Mount St. Marys College 

"Human Dignity and Bargaining with Terrorists'' Terrence Pell, Center for Individual Rights "Racial Preferences and the Culture of Death" Randall K. O'Bannon, National Right to Life Educational Trust Fund "Postmodernism and the Politics of Partial Birth Abortion" 
(D) Political and Biological Aspects of the Culture of Death • CCE, Rm 202 Jeffrey Langan, University ofNotre Dame 
"The Place of Evangelium Vitae in Democratic Theori' Christopher Mims, University ofNotre Dame 
"The Human Person as Organism" 
Sean Raftis, S.J., Go11vtgt1 Jesuit Conm1u11i(v "Strange Bedfellows: Pro-Choice Catholics and the Evil of Legal Abortion" 
5:00 PM.• Mass Basilica of the Sacred I lean 


r 
I r 
I I 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 11, 2000 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Zahm, Siegfried hold on with strong defense for 7-7 tie 
By JOHNNY LEITNER 
Sports Writer 
Zahm and Siegfried both approached lhcir game on Sunday as a must-win. 
makn-or-brrak affair that could secure or obliterate their playoff ambitions. After four quarters of' gru­eling, dcfcns1!-dorninatcd play. little had been dccid­nd, as the Habid Bats and !{amblers ducll•d lo a 7-7 tic. 
The game began as a battle between punttirs. Neither offense was able to make much headway on their opening drives. Zahm was frequently pinned inside its own 20­yard line; although Siegfried started several drivi,s at midlfold, it foill~d to capilalize against Zahm's tenacious defen­sive front. At the end of the socond 4uartcr, how­ever, it appeared Siegfried was poised to claim a lead. 
After starting at the Zahm 35, the Siegf'rit\d offense advanced the ball. relying on a power rushing game featuring captain running back Travis Smith. After being tackled at the six, though, Smith lost a shoe. In the confu­sion that ensued, the Hamblers were unable to run another play before time expired in the first half. 
"It was tough lo keep track of time," Siegfried captain and quarterback Rob Plumby said. "We just ran out." 
Siegfried came out in the second half eager to atone for its lost opportunities. On their first drive. amidst a stiff wind and frigid driz­z I e, wide receiver T.J. Fontana took the ball on an end around and then threw a 25-yard pass to Pete Aguiar. Quarterback Hob Plumby then found Aguiar for a 15-yard con­nection, and the Humblers found themselves at the Zahm 25. After converting 
@] • 

I~ 
I til--tl 
CENTER (OJI
I
I 
SOCIAL 
I 
CONCERNS 

a fourth down inside the 
Zahm 10, Plumby took a 
quarterback draw into the 
end zone. The subsequent 
extra point gave Siegfried 
a 7-0 lead. 
The Zahm offense, after being frustrated in the first half. also emerged in the second set with relined determination. Zahm took possession after Siegfried's score and immediately began to march, mixing puriphcry running with a variety of passes. Artrr clawing to the Siegfried 10, quarter­back Dan Burke dropped back to pass, but was quickly f'lusbcd from the pocket by a swarm of Ramblers. Though the play appeared broken, Burke had other ideas, rolling ouL and throwing down­field, where he found receiver Cf:iris Bystedt tightrope walking the rear edge of the end zone. Zahm captain Brian Zant's kick tied the game at 7-7. 
Siegfried tried to retali­ate on their next posses­sion, but failed to convert a fourth down at their own 45-yard line after Smith was denied a gain by an armada of Zahm defense men. With the fourth quarter winding down. the rejuvenated Zahm offense sought to claim victory, forging ahead as far as the Siegfried 15. Stymied in the red zone. the Rabid Bats opted for a 31-yard field goal attempt on fourth and 10. Unfortunately for Zahm, Zant's kick had plenty of distance but veered right, barely missing the uprights. 
The Ramblers attempted to make good on their final possession. but the sloppy playing conditions and dwindling game clock hampered Siegfried. The game concluded with a tie, the second straight game between these two teams to end in stalemate. 
"Playing Siegfried is always a tough game," 
~,AssoC'..
$'.~
::, ,::. 
-0
< ::i 
I Thinking about how to spend next summer? Want to gain valuable experience?I I THE
i 

I 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT IS YOUR ANSWER! 
i 
i • SPEND 8 WEEKS PROMOTING SOCIAL JUSTICE THROUGH DIRECT SERVICE • CHOOSE FROM OVER 120 SITES ACROSS TIIE NATION I 
• EARN 3 THl!OLOCY CREDITS (WITH POSSIBLE CR0SSLISTS)i • RECEIVE A $1900 TIJITION SCHOLARSHIP FOR THE FALL 200l SEMESTER • MAKE VALUABLE CONTACTS WITH ND ALUMNI 
I 

THINK ABOUT IT.••
i 
~ 

• INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS
I 

TliESDAY, OCTOBER 24 AT 6:00 PM 
I 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8 AT 7:00 PM THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30 AT 7:00 PM 
I 
•=i 

@I
@]. 
Brian Zant said. 
With this match in tho books, the playoff picture is a bit unclear. Zahm ends its regular season with a 2-1-1 record, while Siegfried, currently 1-1 -1, will play a decisivo fourth game next week against Sorin llall. The outcome of that critical game will fig­ure heavily into the playoff destinies of both of these 
squads. 
"All or our guys know that it is a must-win game," Siegfried captain Rob Plumby s;i.id. "But this game was important for us. We played hard and didn't make any mis­tak cs. We're confident against Sorin." 
For the Rabid Bats, little of the regular season remains except biding their time and hoping that the pieces fall into place for a playoff spot. 
"We haven't hit on all cylinders in a single game yet," Brian Zant said. With the year reaching its 

dramatic playoff finale. ELIZABETH LANGfThe Observer the Bats hope that they Zahm players run the ball earlier in the season. The Rabid Bats needed a will have another chance 
win against Siegfried to secure a spot in playoff action. 
to hit that mark. 

Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
I; @] 
;
;
I
I 
~ 
I
I 
;I 
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I 
~ 


The TIAA-CREF 
Advantage. 
Year in and year out, employees at education and 
research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. 
And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy d1vers1fication among a range of expertly managed funds 

• 
A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service 

• 
A strong commitment to low expenses 

• 
Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options 


For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF. 

THE TIAA-CREF  
ADVANTAGE  
Investment Expertise i  
Low Expenses  
Customized  
Payment Options  
Expert Guidance  


1----------------------'------------··------···­
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Serv1Ces, Inc distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities.• TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
"/_.,.... 

Callus fa~" 
. afree 

mformation .· •
package 
r 
·••.· .. ,. 

Wednesday, October 11, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
program. them and prove it on the court." Vanderbilt, a matchup with add a physical presence inside, "We have to go out there and Notre Dame's schedule won't Cincinnati in the John Wooden with Humphrey a scoring threat
8-ball 
show what we can do," Murphy make success easy. Its noncon­Classic and a home date with in­as well. Graves set a Notre Dame 
continued from page 20  said. "It's nice to be one of the top teams, but we have to go out  fcrcncc slate includes games at Kentucky  road and  slate rival Indiana. Then come Big East opponents Syracuse,  
Seton llall, Connecticut and  

r-==============================----======-iJ Georgetown, to mention a 


The Notre Dame Writing Center has expanded its hours. You can now talk your papers over with a Writing Tutor on Sunday afternoons and evenings. 
The Notre Dame Writing Center is dedicated to helping all shtdents improve their writing. Writing tutors help shtdents with writing projects at any stage during the writing process. From understanding 
the assignment, to developing arguments, to organizing materials, to critiquing that final draft, Writing Center tutors will work withyou 
through the writing process. 
So stop by for a good conversation about your writing! Our locations 
and expanded times are: 
01.1r Evening and Afternoon Hours Are: 
few. 
But the Irish boast six legitimate starters -cap­tains Murphy and lngelsby, along with Carroll. Graves, Humphrey and Swanagan ­and several key reserves. 
"Not everybody's going to play as much as they want," Rrey said. "Is everybody still going to be on board with two feet? That's our big challenge." 
After averaging 22.7 points and 10.3 rebounds a game last year, Murphy turned down the chance to jump to the NBA. The 6-foot-10 play­er is a preseason All­American and candidate for the Wooden Award. Humphrey and Swanagan record for 3-pointers in a single season last year as the team's second-leading scorer. Carroll and Ingelsby can also drain the long distance shot, as each hit 35 percent or better from behind the arc in 1999-2000. 

Beyond the starting lineup come sophomore center Ivan Kartelo. sophomore forward Jere Macura, freshman guard Torrian Jones, freshman center Tom Timmermans and junior guard Charles Thomas. 
Following the first semester finals, former player Hans Rasmussen will become eligible after transferring back to Notre Dame from Portland. Freshman Chris Markwood underwent surgery last month and remains questionable for the season. 
"We're deeper this year," Carroll said. "We're more talent­ed this year." 
CLUB SPORTS 

Water polo extends winning streak to 20 

Knott Hall Leaming Resource Center Center for Social Concerns 
B012 DeBartolo 

Our Morning Hours Are: 
B012 DeBartolo Monday-Thursday 

Sunday 
Monday-Thursday 
Sunday 
Sunday-Tuesday Monday-Thursday 
Monday & Wednesday Tuesday & Thursday 
7-lOp.m. 
3-10 p.m. (new!) 
7-lOp.m. 
6-10 p.m. (new!) 
7-l0p.m. 1-4p.m. 
10:30-noon 
9-11 a.m. (new) 
Special to The Obseiver 
The men's water polo club's winning streak in Midwest Division play reached 20 this weekend. but not without a couple of very stifT challenges at the Kalamazoo Invitational. The 10-2 Irish opened play with a convincing 13-6 win against Toledo. The second round against host Kalamazoo was played before an overflow crowd as the Irish held on to claim an 8-5 deci­sion that was close through­out the match. 
The semifinals pitted the Irish against Western Michigan and the club coasted to a 17-9 victory to set up the championship contest with Grand Valley State. With less than a minute remaining, and the Irish trailing 10-8, goalie Eric Saul was called upon to stop a penalty shot. His save and two ensuing goals by Matt McNicholas forced overtime. 
After a scoreless first over­time, the Irish again found· themselves down a goal with 20 seconds on the clock in the second overtime. John Penilla provided the next heroics, fir­ing the tying goal as time elapsed. With a huge crowd wildly cheering on both teams, Peter Asmuth came through in sudden death over­time, scoring the champi­onship goal for the Irish. The club will next host the Conference Championships, Oct. 22-23 at Rolfs Aquatics. 
Ultimate 
The ultimate club earned its way to the semifinals of' the Michigan Wolverine Invitational this weekend. Dave Iloffman and Mike Shiel spearheaded an attack that scored quickly and often in defeating Michigan ll 13-2 and Ohio State, 13-5. in early round action. The club lost in pool play to Dayton. 13-9. before taking on Western Michigan in the final qualify­ing round. 

With a 7-6 lead at the half, the Irish switched to a zone defense and limited the Mustangs to a single second half point while posting a 13­8 victory. In the quarters, another Michigan team was the opponent, and fell 13-0. Fatigue caught up with the short handed Irish squad in the semis as they lost to Ohio State in the rematch, 13-10. Next up for the Irish will be the Nov. 4-5 Volunteer Invitational at Tennessee. 
Bowling 
Led by veterans Jason Pawlak and Darren Kraft, the bowling club placed 34 at the Midwest Collegiates in Milwaukee. competing against all the top teams in this sec­tion of the country. Pawlak's had a 201 average and Kraft's managed a 188. The Irish will return to the lanes next week for the Ebonite Hoosier Classic at Indianapolis. 
Field Hockey 
Inclement weather and poor travel conditions in Chicago forced the postponement of Sunday's scheduled match with the University of Chicago. A make-up date has not been finalized. 
Men's Rowing 
The Head of the Rock in Rockford, Ill., proved to be a coming out party this week­end for the men's rowing club. The men's varsity 8 sprinted to a silver medal. fin­ishing only behind the Wisconsin Alumni in a field that included schools such as Northwestern. Iowa. and Nebraska. The varsity 4 also distinguished itself, placing fourth among 19 boats. while the Lightweight 4 claimed third and the bronze medal. The club is now preparing for Boston's famed Head of the Charles, and will train next week in Connecticut. 

page l <, The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 11, 2000 
==-=-=-=-=-:-===============================================================================-:=============== 

continued from page 20 
"We had a package that we came inlo summer camp with that we're now able lo do again jwith a mobile quarter­back!," Davie said. "The pack­age of Purdue and Michigan State, that's gone now. just trying to buckle it up and hammer people and play so ultruc,rnsBrvativc. But we do have to get some consist<\ncy when, we' re not everything every week. There's no way you can survive doing that." 
Davie slresscd Navy's offonsl' could present prob­lnms. 
''I dl)n't think thP fact that Navy has not won a game has a whole lot to do with this," Davie said. "You look at their schedule. They've played some good teams ... Obviously it's a big d.allenge with the wish­bontl schemes ... when you look at the formations, it docsn 't make sense to your players. They'rn different for­mations than you sec. There's such 1 p11riod of just gt>tting players comfortable with, 'What do we call this? What is this f,1rmation? Who are the eligible guys in this forma­tion'!' You're out of your com­fort zone. They have you out of your comfort zone. That's probably the biggest thing." 

PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer Anthony Denman (39) and Clifford Jefferson (15) tackle a Stanford back in the lrish's 20-14 victory over the Cardinal Saturday. The Irish hope to stay focused throughout the remainder of the season and take care of the last six games. 


'TH E ST AN D I NG COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDENT NEEDS 

Irish look to stay undefeated on the road against Illinois 
------·. 

Wednesday, October 11, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
VOLLEYBALL 
page 17 


I I 
I 
I 
j 
I 
' 
I 
l I 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will look to remain unde­feated on the road against l!!inois State today. 
The 20-ranked Irish have posted a 6-0 record un the road while standing at 13-4 on the season. 
"I think that we're a pretty good team this year and we focus on one game at a time," junior Kristy Kreher said. "We don't think about the fact that we have a winning streak on the road when we play. We just go out and play our 
game." 
Today marks the 13th meet­ing between the teams. The Irish hope to earn the series lead which currcnlly stands at 6-6. The Redbirds are 8-5 in the 2000 season, coming off a battle against Witchita State in which Illinois State was able to capture the match in five games. 
"We play Illinois State every 
year," Krehcr said. "It's always a good competition between teams. We have fun with it." 
Kendra Haselhorst will look to pose an Jrish threat with 210 kills this year. 
Notre Dame topped West Virginia and Pittsburgh this weekend in its first conference games outside of the Joyce Center to improve to 4-0 in the Big East. 
The Irish swept West Virginia Saturday in three 
games (15-0, 15-7, 15-4) 
Outreach ND 
wishes you a happy 
National Coming Out Day 
Outreach ND offers peer support and social activities for gay, lesbian, bisexual and questioning students at the University of Notr_e Dame. 
For more information, contact 
info@outreachnd.org 
or go to 

w-w-"W.outreachnd.org 
OutreachND is not an officially recognized s{udenl group and is not affihated with the University of Notre O.ame or Saint MBJ)''s College. 


(()py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPY 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm• Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
Copyright 2000 • All Righrn Reserved• I0/00 
~-----------------------­
before battling with Pittsburgh on Sunday for the 15-9, 10-15, 16-14. 16-14 victory. 
Kreher will look to make her mark on the Redbirds today. Kreher has racked up 224 kills this season on a .320 hilting percentage to lead the Irish while senior Christi Girton holds a .270 percentage with 

Are your copy projects overtaking all of the time in your work schedule? The Copy Shop in the Lafortune Student Center can ease your workload in a jiffy. We can handle any material you need 


copied: manuals, flyers, newsletters, sell sheets, postcards, virtually 
anything you want. Free up your time and let us do toc copying for you. 
We're the copy experts ready to lend you our helping hands! 
High Volume Copying Color Copying, Scanning & Printing Binding /Tabs/ Laminating / Fax Service Newsletters / Reports/ Business Cards Complete Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! Quality Copies, Quick/yr 
www.CopyShopND.com 

209 kills in 2000. 
"I just think that as !orig as we play our game against Illinois State we should pretty much take control of the match," Kreher said. "We need to focus on our side and not worry about what they're doing." 
Got sports? Call 1-4543. 
Houses for Rent 1 BR HOMES 1210 Cedar St. S350/Mth 2BRHOMES 1337 Fremont $550 /1\'llh 5?9 Chicago $550/Mth 750 Dundee $550/Mth 

l BR APTS -MlSHWAKA 314 Wells -$100/Wk 1-800-328-7368 A Division ofCulver Development 

~-----------------------------------------­
1 page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October I 1 , 2000 
: ===-=-==-================================================================================================================== 
' 
' 
' 
I WOMEN'S SOCCER 
I 
I 
Belles fall to Olivet 3-2 in final moments of game 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI SporuWruer 
In their first home C[)ntest since a sel'ios of devastating losi,es, the Bolles came out roaring. only to fall to the Olivet Lady Comets 3-2 after a lato goal by Olivet's Doris Sullivan. 
"11 was a great individual effort on the part or Doris Sulivan," Belles head coach JasJn Milligan said. "She's a great player. She's been a pain in our neck for years." 
Sullivan scored all three goals f'or the Comets, and look seven of Olivct's eight shots on Belles goalie Tia Kapphahn. Lori Lucas had the only othnr shot for the Cof'rnts. 
F,,r the most part. however. the Belles dominated the game, keeping the ball in the Cornets' zone and taking 31 shots. 
"II thought [the lfollesl looked a lot better," Cornets head coach Hans Morgan said. "They improved quite a bit They looked a lot more or~anizcd. They looked more dangerous offensively." 
llealher Muth scored first for the Belles 20 minutes in the game to put them up 1-0. Muth's goal was unassisted, making a breakaway and dodging Olivet's defense to put the ball in the net, high and to the right, just out of Olivet goalie Tanja Rupert's hands. Muth had seven shots for the match. 
"We scored goals today," Milligan said. "That was defi­nitely something to put a smile on our faces." 
Stcp·hanic Artnak, who along with Muth leads the Belles in scoring this season, put the ball in the net again to give the Belles a 2-0 lead. 
It wa.s Artnak's first regular action goal, after her first three carrni on penalty kicks. Then the tide of the game turned against the Belles. Sullivan scored her first goal less than a minute after Artnak's off an assist by Laura Fiorino. 
Sullivan scored again to tie the game with 17 minutes to go, and then cemented the victory for the Comets with her third goal with six min-
IN'fERHALL SOCCER 
S,tanford upsets Knott t~or cha01pionship 
By MICHAEL RAMPOUA 
Sports Writer 
"'light and day," was how senior captain Kelechi Nd 1kwe compared the regular s(rnson play of' Stanford I!all's soccer team Lo its perfor­ma nee in the playoffs that ended in a 2-0 win in tho championship against defend­ing champion Knott. 
Coming off a lackluster 1-3­1 season. the Stanford team was seeded 12th out of the 12 te<1ms that Pntcred the play­ol'fo. 
For the first 25 minutes, the ball spent equal time on both ha:ves ol' the tield. with nei­ther team able to gain a clear edge. AL halftime, the game remained scoreless. due most­ly to the physical and tena­cious del'ense displayed by bcr,h teams. 
After the second half, the ofl'ensc was on the attack, hardly letting up on Knott and forcing its defense to make consistent plays. But the North Quad men proved too much for the Mod Quadders, as a centering pass l'rom 
Ndukwe was struck home by junior Kevin Muempl'cr to put Stanford ahead 1-0. 
Later in the half, a tripping call inside the box set up -a penalty kick, which was dri­ven past the keeper by Muempfer. 
"In our first game against Keenan. we were unorganized. We had the talent and experi­ence, but we couldn't put it together," said Ndukwe. "Four top-five wins in the playoffs was a definite change of pace. We started moving the ball, spreading it out, and really played Stanford soccer." 
"Defense was our heart and soul. both in league play and the playoffs," Ndukwe added. 
Stanford llall's first'game in the pl.ayoffs against No. 5 O'Neill Hall end,ed in a 1-0 win. moving the Griffins into the quarterfinals against No. 4 Keenan llall. 
The 2-1 win landed them in the final four round. where they faced No. l Dillon llall 
· Monday night. A long and hard-fought 50 minutes 
gained them a 2-0 win against Dillon and a place in the championship game. 
utes remaining in regulation. 
The Belles did not stop their offensive efforts. Artnak and Kristen Greenwood led the team with eight shots each. Laura Paulen and Wendy Irvin each had two attempts. while Lynn Taylor, Adrian Kirby, Shawna Jiannoni and Katie Green each got off one. 

"We moved the ball real well," Milligan said. "We con­tinue to improve." 
Kapphahn made two saves, seeing little action on her end or the field except for Sullivan's breakaways. Hu pert held the Comets in the game with 17 saves. 
"This was dcf1nitcly the best I've seen a lot of the team play." Milligan said. "We're getting there slowly but sure­ly. We feel positive about today's game." 
The Belles face Alma on Oct. 15. 

(because you're slightly different). 



Giving Birth To A Stone 


1989-1993 

MEDl6PLAY@ 
Your Entertain1111ent Superstore 
Join Replay: 
The dub that 
rewards your love of entertainment:" 
Ask associate for details. 

for the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. Med·1aPlay. com•M Cassettes avail~ble
• on select titles. Sale ends O<tober 21, 2000. Pricing may vary online. 826400 5AA7 
Recycle 'fhe Observer. 
Wednesday, October 11, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

Things Could be Worse will return Thursday. 
BlLLAMEND

Fox TROT 

So WHO CAN TELL ME. WHY MACBETH SEES AN IMA&I• NARY DAGGER BEFoRE HIM? 
\__ 

PETER 
UM•.• 

Fox? 
EIL 

. '-­
-----1 
'1 
HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Luke Perry, Daryl Hall, Eleanor Roosevelt, Jerome Robbins, Joan Cusack 
Happy Birthday: Deal with your own problems before you decide to help others this year. If you have pending issues, you aren't likely to get anything done. You will have plenty of energy, but it must be chan­neled properly if you want to reach your highest potential. You have some great ideas, and it's time to put them into motion. Your numbers: 5, 12, 19, 23, 30, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Don't let passion get the better of you. Secret affairs may be intriguing, but they will be hurtful in the long run. Don't fool yourself. Self-decep­tion is evident. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will experience difficulties en route. Plan your day carefully. Leave extra time in case you get lost. It's best to concentrate on making personal changes to enhance your appeal. 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will do well at work if you stick to your own business. Your relentless detennination to succeed will make you popular with the boss. Go after
49 Really enjoyed 
your goals. 0000 
52 Qom home CANCER (June 2.1-July 22): Romance will be your prime con­
53 Angel's worry 
cern. Do what you can to make 
54 Mummy's home allowances for others. You will want to keep the peace and remain open to
55 Undergarment 
do as you please. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Legal mat­ters should be taken care of. You will have the edge if you researched your 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle case well. Take advantage of money­making investments. Fix up your 56 Drumstick 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
EUGENIA LAST 
house.000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Romantic opportunities will be plen­tiful. Be sure you make the right choices. You may be a little emotion­al about matters concerning children. Don't overspend to impress others. 
0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You must rely on yourself if you wish to get ahead. You can do the job proper­ly if you use creative initiative. You'll be surprised at how well it will be received. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will feel great pride when the chil­dren you are close to achieve their goals. Your positive support will help inspire confidence in those you help.00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should do some work around the house. Don't neglect the ones you love. Secret affairs will cause anxiety and frustration. Sort out your own motives. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your change of attitude may baffle family and friends. Try to explain your actions and listen to the advice given bithose who love you. Com­munication will be important. 000 . 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't hold yourself back. Your lack of confidence will be your downfall. An opportunity for career advance­ments will be yours if you're willing to take a chance. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will want to experience exciting new activities. Allow your creativity to flourish. You need stimulating friends who will be supportive re­garding your endeavors. 000 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Snatches 5 Nuclear treaty result 8 Farm cry 14 Three-layer 
treat 15 Sport_ 16 Like a white rat 17 Cousin of a 
canvasback 18 E-mail address ending 19 Golf pro's concern 20 Spy movie catch phrase 23 It may be sold in yards 24 Crunches 
tighten them 25 Coffee holder 26 Tabloid photo 
subject 
29 Cool cat 31 LP contents? 
32111 humor 
33 Calls up 
35 More smart­
alecky 36 Sampler sentiment 39 "Platoon" actor 
Willem 40 In addition 41 Pound sounds 42 "ER" extras 43 Slip away 47 "May I help 
you?" 48 "_who?" 49 The fin man? 50 Morgan of the 
comics 
51 1984 Cyndi Lauper #1 hit 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE A T s E s w E 
I 5 
C H 
---1---1---1--1--1 
A Y 
I E 

55 Gives a clarion call . 57 Pastoral place 58 Skip 59 Ply with food and drink 60 SOS part, supposedly 61 Parcel 62 Scully and Mulder, for two 63 Letter abbr. 64 Rabbit's title 
DOWN 
1 "I'm impressed!" 2 Pupil 
surrounder 3 Conked 4 Unloaded, in a 
way 5 Persistent 
problems 6 Quarks' places 7 Actress 
Campbell 8 Monopolymaker 9 John of song 10 Meir contemporary 11 Untouchable's belief 

....-l,~~s;;.i..;s:..i 12 Mandela's org. _ __......_s;;.J...T;..i 13 Misfortune 
U E 21 Freshmen's and 35 Ahab, e.g. 
sophomores' 36 Also-ran of fable team 
37 Behind the 
0 L E O A S I F A O R T A 22 Cliched movie 
scenes P L A N G A Z E C L A S S ending 
38 Soldier Field T E N S S U E D K O P E K 27 Turn tail crew 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

Birthday Baby: Oh, you little C11tie. You will be hard to resist and hard to Annual subscriptions are available for the say no to. You are a channer with sensitivity and good intentions, a romantic best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 and a dreamer. You will win the admiration of others easily. 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenWaslcom, astrornate.com.) e 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 

Name --------------------------­
Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


Road Warriors 
Notre Dame volleyball will look to remain undefeated on the road with a seventh win against ltlinois State today.

PORTS 
page 17 

r I page 20 oRstRVER Wednesday, October 11, 2000 
I 
l 
i 
I 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
I 
I I I1·ish hope to return in 2000 as 'kings of the court' 
I 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assoc.,Hc Spom Editor 
L 
They're all grown up. Now all they need is a coming out party. 
Last season, the Irish were lcf't out of the NCAA Tournament like high school students too young to atte11d the seniur prom. This year. they're hoping not only to attend the Big Dance, but to be kings of the court. 
''I knew this group had the chanee to take the next slep" first-year coach Mike Brey said. 
M,~dia Day on Tuesday was the debut for the 2000-01 Notre Dame men's basketball team. a squad that returns four startr.rs from last year's NIT runners-up comingent. including All-/\merican forward Troy Murphy. post player Harold Swanagan and guards David Graves and Matt Carroll. Also on the rostl'r arn seni,)r Martin lngelsby, who started al point guard his firs: two seasons and All-Big 12 transfer Hyan Ilumphrey in the front court. 
Practice doesn't officially get underway unti I Saturday. but the players are ready to go. All 12 players passed a preseason conditioning test Tuesday with fly­ing ,:olors. running 22 sprints, each one four lengths of the court, each in less than 22 seconds. 
"We're in great shape," Ingelsby said. "We're ready for the season." 
Now they wanl to pass a bigger exam -thr. entrance requirements for the NCM tournament. something Notre Dame hasn't accomplished since 1990. 
"That experience. there's nothing like it," said llur:1phrcy, who advanced to the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament at Oklahoma. "/\ll the injuries and ail­ments, they disappear once you get into the tourna­ment. It's like a potion." 
Although the Irish have undergone a decade-long spell oulc,ide the tournament, expectations arc soaring. 
Twn years ago, beneath then-coach John MacLeod, the Irish w1mt 7-11 in the Hig East Conference and didr<'t make any post-season tourney. Last year, under coach Matt Doherty, Notre Dame finished in a tie for sixth of' 13 league schools and made a run to the finals of the NIT. Now, they're picked to linish second in the conl'en~nce and among the top 20 in the nation. 
"!L's a challenge," Graves said. "That's the great thing about college basketball. That's the reason why we came hem. Troy, Harold 1:nd I came here with nothing and now look at us." 
G·av1is, Murphy and Swanagan, along with lngelsby, have been at Notre Dame long enough to play for three coa,;hes and underwrite a visible rise in the level of the 
see B-BALL/page 15 

Fc10TBALL 
[~avie stresses staying focused in the rest of the season 
By BRIAN BURKE Sports Wri1cr  match-up as significant in severul ways. "When we first start­ "My point was that the last six games were what really mattered."  is their offense which slipped from 106th to 109th  do. But it's being able to exe­cute doing a lot of different things. We all realize we're  
ed, we talked about how  nationally  last  not going to rely  on  tricking  
With the so-called "brutal" portion of the 2000 schedule behind the Fighting Irish, Bob  the first five games would take care of themselves, regardless  Bob Davie head football coach  week. "I think we [established  have an  somebody." Davie said the 11vc receiver, empty backfield formations  
Davie  emphasized  at  the  of how much conversa­ identity.I  I think  would be  more the exception  
Tuesday press conference the importance of his team remaining focused through the final six games of the season. Dm:pite the fact that the Irish face a winless Navy in 0r1ando, Davie sees this  tion there was coming into the season about those first five games," Davie said. "My point was that the last six games were what really mat­tered. Finishing the season was the No. 1 priority, keeping  this football team together, getting stronger in the second half of the season -that's really been the priority since last January." Beyond Navy, the most pressing concern for the Irish  we spread the field. We are still a team that runs the football with spread­ing the field. We still have the ability to put two backs in the backfield," he said. "We have the total package of what we  than the rule in the future, and that the offense could now be tailored to a quarterback with mobility, as it was' with Arnaz Rattle. see FOOTBALL/page 16  

at Illinois Sme Cross country vs. Navy .. Today, 7 p.m. Pre-National Meet ~i in Orlando
SPORTS 

.~ 
Saturday, I I a.m.
Saturday, TBA 
ATA 
•

vs. Boston College at Alma vs. St. John's
Vj; srs Jl,
Friday, 7:30 pm. Saturday, 12 p.m Saturday, 7:30 p.m . 
GLANCE 
.. 


