
Student films arrive 
History professor dies 
'The Loft Tapes,' a collection ofstudent 
A visiting professor at Notre Dame lost her 

Wednesday
films focusing on Generation X, is now 
battle with breast cancer, leaving two classes 
available in the bookstore. 
with a hard lesson to learn. 
JANUARY 26, 
Scene . page 15 
News . page 4 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXX!ll NO. 70 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
"Coaching with him was a great experience. He taught me everything I know about soccer." 
Chris Petrucelli fonner women's soccer head coach 



Men's soccer coach dies suddenly at age 48 
By KERRY SMITH Assist.int Sporrs Editor 
The Universitv of Notre Dame lost one of its own Tuesday morning with the death of Irish men's soccer head coach Mike B11rticelli. 
Berticelli, 48, died suddenly at his home of an apparent heart attack. 
University officials received word of Bertic1dli's d11ath during an 8 a.m. meeting in which the coach was sup­posed to be present. 
"The meeting was cancelled and I advised the coaches of what had occurred," said Notre Dame athletic director Michael Wadsworth. "People just couldn't concicve of it. It was just shocking." 
The University's coaching staff was not the only group shocked and dis­mayed by news of Berticelli's death. As Irish head coach since 1990, Berticelli made many bonds and forged many friendships "vith colleagues and play­ers. 
"The team is taking this very hard," said Stephen Maio, who played under Berticelli for three years. "We all saw him al practice yesterday when we were training.... He was excited about mixt season and the future.... Nobody expected this. We're just trying to stick together and work through this.•· 
A native of Lewiston, Maine, Berticelli began his involvement with collegiate soccer as a goalkeeper and captain for the University of Maine at Farmington. 
In his 23 years as a head coach, Berticelli compiled an impressive list of accomplishments. 
He began his collegiate coaching career in 1977 at Thomas College in Waterville, Maine, where he guided an ailing soccer program back to health. 
He found continued success at the University of North Carolina­Greensboro, highlighted by earning an NCAA Division II National Championship in 1983. 
"As a coach, he was extremely moti­vating and driven to succeed," said Chris Petrucelli, former Irish women's soccer head coach and player and an assistant coach under Berticelli. "Coaching with him was a great experi­ence. He taught me everything I know about soccer." 
Berticelli went on to bolster a suc­cessful men's soccer program at Old Dominion from 1984-1989 before accepting the position of head coach at Notre Dame in 1990. 
Hard work and dedication to the needs of his players during his years as 
see COACH/page 4 


Al • • 

ELECTION 
w .. .. 

http://www.billbradley.com BACKGROUND 
*1967-1977: Starting forward for NBA's New York Knicks 
*1978-1997: Represented New Jersey as U.S. Senator 
"People accuse me of offering big ideas that they 
say are risky. I say that the real risk is not doing 
the things that I've set out to do in this campaign." 
-Bill Bradley 




Challenger aims to reform 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
News Writer 
With issues of the upcoming presidential campaign center­ing around finance and healthcare, Democratic can­didate Bill Bradley has emerged as the prime compe­tition Al Gore will likely face in the upcoming primaries. 
"He's something of a reformer," said John Roos, professor of government and Bradley campaign volunteer. "He brings a different approach to problems." 
Bradley, an opponent of unregulated contributions, intends to attack campaign finance. He believes Americans should be able to trust government, instead of finding themselves embar­rassed by it. 
He is also a strong support­er of social and ethnic equali­ty, and supports healthcare for all Americans. He believes Americans who earn less than they need to provide adequately for themselves and their families should be given a grant to buy private or governmental medical insurance plan. 
Bradley has done well with liberals and young voters, including many college stu­dents looking for reform. He has also received much sup­port among male voters. 
Bradley was unable to win the majority in Iowa, but was endorsed by the Des Moines Register and two newspapers in New Hampshire. 
"Bradley is not simply polls," said Roos, "The most important question is leader­ship." 
If Bradley is to win the Democratic nomination, "[He] will run much better than Gore against Bush," said Roos. Although Bradley is a Democratic candidate, he works as an independent thinker, Roos said. 
Bradley originally planned to run in the 1992 campaign, but dropped out because he said he felt his timing wasn't quite right. 
"It's got to be the right per­son at the right time," said Roos, and for Bradley, the right time is now. 
Bradley, who turned down a Duke University basketball scholarship in favor of acade­mia, is a graduate of Princeton University. After graduation, though recruited by the NBA, Bradley opted to attend Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar. After two years, he returned to the States, and in 1967 was drafted by the New York Knicks, where he spent 10 years as a starting for­ward. 
In 1978, Bradley was elect­ed Senator of New Jersey and served three terms. In 1996, he made the decision to teach, and has since taught at the University of Maryland, Stanford and Notre Dame. 


Mike Bertlcelll suffered a heart attack, leaving behind a wife and two sons. Praise from players and colleagues contributes to his winning record. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, January 26, 2000

INSIDE COLUMN 


Everyday Heroes 

It was at about noon today when I realized that the utopia of the newborn semester was quickly fading. As the deadlines piled high on my dt>sk. the list of things to do became unmanageable and the unfinished reading began to accumulate. I realized that stress, after its month-long hiatus, had triumphantly returned. 
I found some solace in knowing l wasn't alone; friends griped of meetings. mL55ed classes and slipping behind even sooner than last semester. That all­too-familiar feeling of the unstoppable tornado of activitv that never lets us stop spinning was beg'in­ning to make me dizzy ­and already, I feared I was losing my grip. 
And when you're strug­gling to hang on. you start tu wonder what you're hanging onto. 
You start to wonder if all you're doing is hanging un to the relentless pressure of expec­tations. the inner struggle to avoid failure. and Lhc horror of admitting that perhaps, this time. vou won't be able to do it all. · And that's when you let go. 
You reach a point when you have to say it's OK that it won't get done, OK to admit you're not superhuman, OK lo occasionally succumb to failure. You reach a point when it's OK to put your feet up on your desk at the end of the day, and even if your list of things to do isn't done. relax. 
Someone told me once that stress did not exist. that stress was a self-induced figment of our imaginations that we use as an excuse for our actions. As I tried to hold in my laughter at such a ridiculous notion, the concept struck home. 
We choose to accept stress if we choose to accept expectations that others place on us; we choose to accept stress if we do not allow our­selves to fail. The amazing power of that notion is that we choose. We have the power to choose stress; we have the power to choose to rid our­selves of it. 
So as the day closed and my tornado of activ­ity flew me out of its whirling chaos and allowed me to rest for the night, I closed my eyes, let the spinning stop. and realized s_ome­thing -only superheroes can fly and spin without getting dizzy. Only superheroes can compete 26-hour days without getting tired. Only superheroes will never fail. 
But superheroes aren't real. 
Ifs the everyday heroes that aren't afraid to fail. it's the everyday heroes that choose to live up to their own expectations -choose to take each day as it comes. 
It's time I became an everyday hero for myself. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Kate Steer Mike Vanegas 
Sam Dcrheimer Graphics 
Kare Nagengasd Sandy Lonick 
Sports Production 
Kerry Smith Racheal Protz.man 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 

Colleen Gaughen Liz Lang 
The Observer (USrS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during e1<.1m and vacanon periods. The Observer is a member ofrho A.lsociartd Prw. All rcprodurnon riglu, are re.erv«i. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday Thursday 
. 
Film: Asian American . Art: Southwestern Spring 2000 Film Festival. Michigan College Art !loom 1001. Wiekamp Gallary, ''Welding Show," Hall, IUSB, 7 p.m. Dale Lyons Building. 

. 
Music: The .<\ltcnberg Dowagiac, 6:30 p.m. to Trio in Concert, Snite 8:30 p.m. Museum, 2 p.m. 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Friday 

. Theatre: Brighton Beach Memoirs, Bristol Opera House. Bristol. 8 p.m. 
. Crafts & Hobbies: 
Collectible Show and Sale, Pierre Morgan Mall, Elkhart, 10 a.m. 
Saturday 
. 
Dance: Lula Washington Dance Theatre, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. 

. 
Music: Vesper Chorale. First Christian Church, South Bend, 7:30 p.m. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Study: Fifty percent of college students cheat 
EAST l.ANSING. Mich. 
It's a scenario that's probably happened to more than one Michigan State University student -during a tough final the profes­sor steps out of the room and a stu­dent is close enough to ask a friend for some answers. 
Whether or not the student decides to cheal in this instance. there's a 50-50 chance he or she has cheated at least oncP during college. according to a recent sur­vey published by Ball Slate University rosearchers. 
Most students who admit to cheat­ing claim they cheat because of pressure on them for high grades. Their behavior can include looking on other students' papers during exams, or plagiarizing other people's work. 
"Personally, I have never cheated," 
Winter storm closes Rutgers 
NEW BRUNSWICK. N.J. 

Classes were canceled for the third time this year after snow blanketed campus Tuesday. The New Brunswick, Piscataway, Camden and Newark campus­es shutdown all offices except for non-essential per­sonnel this morning. Dining services, police and stu­dent center personnel all staying to service students who are stranded on campus. "We base it on if the weather report has been predicting significant snow­fall for the day [and) we take into r.onsideration the long term forecast," Leslie Fehrenbach, associate vice president of administration and public safety, said. "There is a strong r.onsideration for the safety of stu­dents, faculty and staff." While the streets are not done being plowed and more snow is on the way. no decision has been made if Wednesday's classes will be canceled. The University plans to start clearing resi­dence parking lots Wednesday. Cars will have to move from their assigned lots in order to make way for the plows. Robert Spear, the director of Parking and Transportation Services, said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

"When large lecture classes provide an easy way to cheat and get a good grade, students develop that type of mind set." 
Linda Gerard professor of psychology 
anthropology freshman Joe Declercq said. "You take a class lo learn tho matHrial in it. There is no reason to cheat." 
"Cheating has no benefits,"he said. "Students who cheat are not learn­ing the material in the course ­they are not understanding the sub­ject. They get nothing out of it." However, many students find rea­
sons to cheat, said assistant psy­
chology professor Linda Gerard. She 
said peer pressure may be one of 
the most important factors behind 
student dishonesty. 
"Students cheat for many rea­
sons," she said. "The main factor 
may be a matter of conformity. 
Social pressure from friends to flirt 
with danger and try to get away 
with it may bo encouraging a lot of 
the r.healing." 
Too large a f'ocus on grades rather than learning course material encourages students to lie and cheat. especially in classes that give students a large opportunity to do so. Gerard said. 
"When large lecture classes pro­vide an easy way to cheat and get a good grade, students develop that type of mind set," she said. "It seems an easy way to benefit themselves." 


New bill bans colligiate gambling 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

A bill that would ban gambling on collegiate athlet­ics will be introduced to the U.S. Senate Wednesday, a Pac-10 official said Monday. The High School and College Gambling Prohibition Act will be introduced by Senators Sam Brownback. R-Kan.. and Patrick Leahy. D-Vt., according to Pac-10 Assistant Commissioner of Public Relations Jim Muldoon. If the bill is passed, it would eliminate gambling on high school. college and Olympic athletic events. It also seeks to eliminate the publishing of point spreads in newspapers. The bill is a reaction to the increase in gambling on college sports -and gambling on college campuses in gener­al -sinr.e the early 1990s. The problem has made itself felt in point-shaving scandals. which have hit both Arizona State and Northwestern in recent years. Point-shaving occurs when a student-athlete intention­ally doesn't score points when his team is ahead in order to keep the final score under the point spread. Gambling by college students has also become a major issue on campuses across the nation. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

........ 
~ 

0 2000 AccuWuth.,, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
-.,--------~­® © D c_;] c.Il ru3 fil2'l fill;] 0 ~ a. 
Low Showen R•ln T••tom,• FlurrlH Snow le• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
H""' 
V• ASMJcJa19d Prn1 
Atlanta  36  20  Las Vegas  62  50  Portland  42  32  
Baltimore  31  16  Memphis  36  20  Sacramento  45  39  
Boston  33  28  Milwaukee  34  24  St. Louis  25  14  
Chicago  17  2  New York  30  21  Tampa  55  34  
Houston  52  44  Philadelphia  27  30  Wash DC  25  20  


Wednesd1y, January 26, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Rap~ victim's survival story educates many 
·raped, you have three days to go to the By ALISON HEINZ 
hospital to get evidence collected. Do News Writer 
not forget this," said Koestner. Koestner especially addressed the 
Katie Koestner. date-rape survivor men in the audience because rape is and sexual assault-prevention advo­an issue they must deal with as well. cate, asked her audience Tuesday "One in eight men is sexually night, "!low long does it take each of assaulted. If that doesn't concern you, you to trust somebody?" keep in mind that one in four women 
Koestner was raped during her first will be sexually assaulted in her life­semester at William & Mary in Virginia time. That means maybe your mom, and. because of what she calls her your friend, your girlfriend, your sister University's inadequate response to or one day maybe your daughter," said her story, Koestner now travels to Koestner. schools all over the country to educate William & Mary urged Koestner to students about date-rape. rethink her decision to press charges 
"Victims are often described as against the young man who raped her, naYve. The definition of na'ive must be reminding her of to think that it is possi­the seriousness of ble to be alone in a the charge.
"One in four women will 
room with someone and Koestner refused to
be sexually assaulted in
not have sex," said reconsider, and her Koestner. "But alarm­her lifetime.·· attacker was found ingly. in 84 percent of guilty at a rape cases. the victim Univers.ity hearing.
Katie Koestner

knows lwr attacker." However, his pun­
Koestner's attacker date-rape survivor ishment was a one­was another freshman semester ban from she met during fresh-Koestner's resi­man orientation during her first week dence hall. at school. Koestner reported the inci­Outraged, Koestner took her story to dent to her resident assistant a l'ew the media and has since appeared on days later and was immediately taken the cover of Time magazine, the Oprah to the campus health center where a Winfrey show, NBC Nightly News, nurse gave her sleeping pills and told Larry King Live and more than 30 her shn would feel better after a good other programs. . night's sleep. "Last week I told my story to a high 
"No orw told me about the 72-hour school in California and after the 
rulr,. If you or somnone you know is assembly I counted 52 hugs from girls who came up to me and said, 'Me too,"' said KoAstner. "l didn't reach those ~~rls in time, but I haven't given up yet.
FREE POOL 
Koestner was invited to Notre Dame by the Campus Alli a nee for Rape E°Iimination (CARE). the Women's

TONIGHT! 
Resource Center, Lvons Hall, the Counseling Center and Notre Dame Security/Police. CARE vice-president
10PM-12AM 
Kelly McGeever said future activities sponsored by the organization include
ND EXPRESS 
a sexual assault awareness week, which will be held later this semester. 
GIT RlADY FDR THI 
TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS! 
University Dit·ectories ..,I J 
Sales & f\.farketing Internships 
The nation's largest publisher of college and university campus telephone directories is offering paid full-time summer sales and mru-ket.ing internships. Tremendous practical business experience and resume booster. Position begins in May with a week-long, expense paid p,o~m in Chapel Hill, NC. Interns market official directories locally, selling advertising space to area busincs.scii. in specific college roarkels. Earnings average $3000.00 for tbc 10­wcck program. All maJors welcome! 
We will be attending the Notre Dame Job Pait on January 26 am! conlluc:ting interviews on January 27 and would Jovo to speak with you. De sure to slop by our display Lablc. Call l-800-743-5556 ext. 143 or visit our website at www.universitydirectories.com for more information. 


~University Dh-ectories 
PO Doll. 8830 • Chape: Hi.11, NC 27514 
800-743-5556 • Fa:x: 919-968-8!S \3 www. \l n i v.:rsitytl i r~ (; t 1:>rie i.. c,, cn 



NIH­

cc•,·· Appalachia Seminar
~Qllll 
SOCi-'L CONCERNS 




THE SEMINAR 
• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia. March 11-18, 2000 

• 
One credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation retreat & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminru: are encouraged to 


appply as Site Coordinators , Presents opportUnity to work, laugh, & learn with others 
The Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break prese~ts a unique_servi?e­leaming opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites m Appalachia _which focus on issues concerning rural health care, the environment, women, children, and housing construction. Through hands on work and perso~-to-person contacts, smdents experience the cultural richness of lhe area _and begm to understand and analyze the social forces lhat influence the Appalachian people. 
APPLICATIONS 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, January 27, 12:00 PM $40 deposit with application · 
(non-refundable if accepted) 

INFOB.c'1ATION 
Avaiiable at the Social Concerns Festival Tuesday, January 25, 7-9 PM at the Center for Social Concerns 
F\llU'HER INFORMATION 
Rose Domingo. Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 634-3960 Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Director, 631-5293 

page 4 Th(' Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 26, 2000 

Professor succulllbs to breast cancer 
or 30 years of students who 
By TIM LOGAN can not benefit from her 
News Edicor teaching." 
The students who had 
Maureen Mulligan. a visiting Mulligan in the one semester assistant professor of history she did teach appreciated her and core course instructor. as well. died of breast cancer Saturday "I think she was a wonderful at her home in Dowagiac, teacher. She really motivated Mich. her students," said sophomore 
Mulligan, 53, began teaching Joe Grabenstcttcr, one of at Notre Dame in Augusl. She Mulligan ·s core students. She taught a section of core and a brought hAr perspActive as a class · on Revolutionary history professor into her America last semester. This teaching of non-historical sub­spring she was teaching core jects in core. he said, and and a class on the history of touched the lives of those she the American West. met in the classroom. 
Mulligan's colleagues "Riess hm· family," he said, remember herfor her courage "And everyone who knew her. and dedication to teaching. They're better off for having 
" S h e known her." taught all Mulligan
"She did beautifully 

the time that specialized she had this with the gifts she was on women serious ill­in the
gil'en, and those were 

ness." said· Am eri.can
considerable."

C b r i s West and Ham Ii n. had a con­chair of tht~ Walter Nugent tract for her 
history history professor b o o k 
department. "Common "She acted Cares: with an enormous courage, Women and the Family Farm which l think reallv meant a in the Midwest, 1920-1930." lot to all those her around her. She received her Ph.D. from We will miss her." Notre Dame in 1996. She also 
History professor Walter received two masters degrees Nugent directed Mulligan's from the University. Before dissertation when she was a joining the Notre Dame facul­doctoral student at the ty, she taught at the University University, and he praised his of Nebraska and Grand Valley late student and colleague. State University in Michigan. 
"God will love her," he said. She leaves her husband "She did beautifully with the Mike. and her two sons, gifts she was given. and those Michael and Brian. Visitation were considerable. She was and funeral will be Thursday renowned as a teacher. both in at 6 and 7 p.m. at the her commitment and execu­McLaughlin-Clark Funeral tion. The real loss is to the 20 Home in Dowagiac. 

DIFFERENT 


DO AN SSP! 
This summer is your chance to learn and earn 3 credits working with the underserved. SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 2000 

• 
8 WEEI<S OF SERVICE LEARNING 

• 
$1700 TimION SCHOLARSHIP 

• 
VALUABU! ALUMNI CONTACTS 


• 
POSSIBIUIY OF EARNING $1100 THROUGH AMERICORP 

• 
3 CREDITS THEOLOGY, WITH POSSIBLE CROSS-LISTS 

• 
0vER 200 SITl!S ACROSS THE U.S. 





**DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS**: JANUARY 28™ (FRIDAY) [Ci.I 
/! l >I: • , F II~ 
!. . .Q...£J...td~
CENTER FOR SoCIAL CONCERNS 
~ 

Coach 

coaching honors 
continued from page I 
~-•• ~ tqri'(l f~~'ch i>Jtne 'gear 

Div . tt Ill Coaokof the Ye~r a head coach led Berticelli to ·pixie Conference Coq,ch of the Year professional success and a •f6, q,ch of ear, Southern 
291-135-42 overall record. t;e$> . , . w'"s "Mike Berticelli was great ll(J, ofthe }!'c,ar; to his players," said Notre ·pionsl(itl at Univqrsity of 


Dame associate sports direc­·Gr oro tor Bernadette Cafarelli. "Ile 
ar, §pYt~~m .... 
was a man who genuinely 
,1<Jr,J:eren'c'c Coach
cared about people and cared 
QftheY~tJr
about making a dH'ferenct1 in 
·sunbelt Conference Coach ofthe Year
peoples' lives.... lie was a 
.~utlbe(t -S~*.lereflce f?,achof the Yeqr 
terrific individual who always 
•· ,'!lidwest~t,n <::oll~giate.Conferenoe
had the best interest of the 
·Coacliofthe Year

players in mind. The players were his first priority as a Elected senior vice president for education 
coach. He was driven to suc­i9/th~,'/fS:CM 
e~equ.,tt~~ board 
ceed but not at their expense -he was always there for his players." 

Father Bill Seetch. Over the you form a bond and a con­
The University held a meet­

ensuing days they are going nection that's hard to break. 
ing with the men's soccer 

to want to ask questions and All the players can look back team Tuesday to inform them try to get some answers to on Coach Berticelli and know of the death. 
things that am pretty difficult two things: One, that he "We met with the team and 
to understand." brought us to the best univer­
I think it is difficult [for them) 

In the wake of Berticelli's sity to play soccer, and two. 
to believe," said Wadsworth. 

death, players and friends that he coached us on a team 
"We left our meeting where 

remember his commitment to that allowed•us to establish so 
we were able to give them the Notre Dame and his team. many bonds and friendships."

basic information that we 

"It's very hard to lose a A funeral Mass will be cele­had, and they went off into coach," said senior forward brated for Berticelli on fridaytheir own meeting with assis­
Ryan Cox. "When you've been at 3:30 p.m. at the Basilica of 
tant coach Chris Apple and with someone for four years the Sacred Heart. 



INTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 

RECRUITING DATES: February 7 & 8, 2000 at Career and Placement Services. Japanese Language skills NOT required. Open to all majors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
C ( JI TI It r 0 It 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
-· 


CIVIL RIGHTS & SOCIAL CHANGE 
SEMINAR 
Spring Break, March 12-18, 2000. 

THE SEMINAR 
• 
An Experiential Leaming Seminar created to pro:vide hands-on exposure to the living history of the Civil Rights Movement in America: 

• 
Travel to Atlanta ,Birmingham, Montgomery & Selma, the sites of historic Civil Rights actions in the !950's and 1960's. 

• 
Visit students and staff at educational institutions which cultivated the minds and spirits of the Student Leaders of the '60's. · 


• Tours of the King Center in Atlanta, the National Civil Rights Institute in Birmingham, the Soulhem Poverty Law Center in Montgomery. 
• The Seminar connects the past with the future by stimulating ideas and conversation about today's society 3o+ years after the Civil Rights Movement. 
INFORMATION APPLICATIONS SESSIONS Available at the CSC 
DUE DATE; (Preferred) 

Thursday, January 27, 2000 Friday, Jan 28, 2000 
6:00-6:30 p.m. (Final): Monday, Feb. 7, 2000 
Center for Social Concerns 
Deposit: $40 of $125 fee due with application: check or money order 

Monday, January 31, 2000 
ONLY; payable to the Center for 7:00-7:30 p.m. Social Concerns (if accepted non­Center for Social Concerns refundable). 
Further Information: Jay Caponigro at the CSC @ 631-5293 



AFP Photo 

Colombian refugees, who fled the army-guerrilla violence in their hometowns, symbolically crucify themselves in front of the headquarters of the International Red Cross (IRC) in Bogota Tuesday. Refugees took control of the IRC building 40 days ago, demanding help from the government of President Andres Pastra. 





Columbian Army violations decline 
Wednesday, January 26, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Cuban grandmothers to meet Elian 
WASHINGTON 

Under government orders, the Flor.ida rela­tivns of Elian Gonzalez agreed Tuesday to make the boy available for a meeting with his (uban grandmothers Wednesday at a neutral sill!, the Justice Depanment said The grand­mothers pressed their insistenre for thP boy's return and pleaded with Congress not to force 
U.S. citizenship upon him. "The meeting will take place at the timfl and site selected by the Immigration Service," Justice spokeswoman Carole Florman said Tuesday evening. The agrnmnent culminated a long day of rrngotia­Lions marked by an order from the Immigration and Naturalization Service to hold the neutral-site meeting, that had been thwarted on Mondav bv the relatives. Florman said the government Jiad rP.assured tlrn rPla­lives that Wednesday's session at the Miami lfoach home or the president or a Dominican college would br just a visit and would not result in his being taken back to Cuba. 
First Euro rocket launch 
of 2000 works 
EVRY. France 

Tlw first launch of tlrn millennium of the Ariane-4 rocket successfully sent up an American Galaxv XR telecommunications salel!ilP from u;e launch site in Kourou, Frnnch Guiana. The launch late Monday is the 52nd straight success for the Ariane-4 rocket, the workhorse of the 13-nation European Space Agency. Built by Hughes Space and Communications for the PanAmSat Corporation, thr. Galaxy XR will allow trans­mission of television and Internet signals to and from North America. Galaxy XR is the 15th satellite placed in orbit by Arianespace for PanAmSat. Arianespace dominates the world's commercial satellite-launching mar­ket, competing with U.S., Russian and Chinese firms. 
Elevator cable snaps in Empire State Building 
NEW YORK 

An Empire State Building elevator with two people aboard plunged 40 stories before a safety system linally stopped the car on the fourth floor. The passengers were not serious­ly hurt. "I thought I was going to die," Shameka Peterson said. "It was going really, really fast." Ms. Peterson and Joe Masoraca, who work in different offices on the 44th floor, boarded the elevator Monday afternoon and prr.ssed a button for the lobby. "It just plunged," Ms. Peterson told the New York Post. "It was like a bungee fall. It was terrify­ing." The elevator dropped about 400 feet bP.!'ore the safety system caught it and slowed it to a stop on the fourth floor. 
l•tt,,ftlliii@MWI

Dow AMEx: 
915.36 ]ONES +9.87 Na~d.u1:
+21.70 
4167.-H 
+ 71.33 

0 
. 
. 
NYSE 
624.83 
-0.41 


S&P 500: Composite 1410.03 Volume: +!U2 1,290,237,820 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CPMPNfl 1'tcliM \ CHAN9E $ GH!:HPI PllICI 
TELLABS INC Tu.JI -13.85 -"9 .55 59.50 MC.I WORLDCOM WCOM +5. 63 +2 .38 f3. l3 l-'.tic-1mson co~P MSrr .. 1 . .,. +l. !,E 10:2 .ei. DISNJ:\' fWALTJ C DIS '+1~. 57 +t.19 31 .so COMPAQ C.:Ok"Ui'.ER CPQ -5.JO -1.75 Jl.45 CISCO SYSTEMS csco ,;.:2. BO +3. 08 11:2 .12 C'Ht.ACL!: C'ORP +4.16 +2. 23
OllC'L !ifi .,, lN'?gt, CORP ,.,.,.c +2.78 • .2 .'75 101. 56 l'AGINQ NETWORX i'AO.t. . J7. 60 tO. t7 l.7:l 
PA~ C!!.N'!"UPY C'YJII pecLJ' +15. 56 •O-'35 2.60 






orld 
•I 
COMPILED PROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
COLUMBIA 
page 5 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Colombian President Andres Pastrana expressed hope Tuesday that a sub­stantial decline in human rights violations by the Colombian Army will ease congressional concerns about a proposed two-year, $1.6 billion U.S. aid pack­age for his country. 
"We know we have prob­lems regarding human rights in Colombia," Pastrana said after a 45­minute meeting with President Clinton. 
But, he said, there has been a substantial drop in the number of violations committed by the Colombian Army. Without 
CROATIA 

Election sets Croatia on new course 
being more specific, he said, the violations have fallen from 2,000 to 70. 
A State Department offi­cial, asking not to be identi­fied, agreed that the army's rights record has improved in its struggle against both a leftist insurgency and drug traffickers. He said the paramilitary groups linked to the army are responsible for most violations, followed by leftist guerrillas. 
Paramilitary groups have killed thousands of people they accuse of collaborating with the guerrillas. 
Pastrana spoke briefly with reporters outside the White House, buffeted by a snowstorm. 
Among skeptics about the aid package, is Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., who has said a concerted effort is needed by the Colombian Army to thwart the paramilitary groups. 
He also says the Colombian Army must show a greater willingness to turn over personnel accused of rights violations. Other Democrats share Leahy's concerns. 
Before his meeting with Pastrana, Clinton acknowl­edged to reporters there was no guarantee that the aid program, primarily aimed at curbing drug traf­fickers, would produce the desired results. 
"There's always a risk when you go out on a limb to try to save a neighbor and help people to help 
democratic change, sup­pression of human rights and free speech and dreams of annexing part of Bosnia to Croatia left the country moored in pu!Hical and eco­nomic isolation. 
"And now suddenly, we are breathing freely," said Milorad Cupic, a 40-ycar-old computer expert. "There is hope. There are brighter days ahead." 
Western governments have already welcomed Croatia's new course. 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright tele­phoned congratulations to Social Democratic leader Ivica Racan soon after his party and the Social Liberals themselves, that it won't work," Clinton said. 
"I believe the risk in the investment is something that we ought to do." 
He said Colombia's twin challenges of drug traffick­ing and a guerilla insur­gency could be a microcosm of what lies ahead world­wide -"enemies of nation­states forming networks of support across national bor­ders and across otherwise discrete interests." As examples, he mentioned drug traffickers, organized criminals, political terrorists and weapons dealers. 
"We have to ... try to help them (Colombians) gain some measure of control over their own country again," Clinton said. 
won the Jan. 3 parliamcn­tarv elections. 
Top European Un.ion leader Romano Prodi came to Zagreb last week to show support for democratic changes. The EU, which maintained only low-level relations with Croatia in recent years, decided Monday to form a joint EU­Croatia task force to work on future relations. 
Both Mesic and Budisa pledged to accept curtail­ment of presidential powers that critics say Tudjman abused. And they also have promised to cooperate with the U.N. war crimes tribunal and lead Croatia toward EU and NATO membership. 
Associated Press 
ZAGREB 
There is still a round of voting to go before Croatia has a new president, but that ballot seems almost anticlimactic in the wake of two elections that have set the nation on a new course. 
The 11rst election, a con­test in Januarv that resulted in a Western-oriented Parliament, dealt a stinging defeat to the party of the late authoritarian president, Franjo Tudjman. The sec­ond vote, held Monday. eliminated the Tudjman party nominee from the presidential contest. 
Now, the two leading can­didates. Stipe Mesic and Drazen Budisa. will face each other in a runoff on Feb. 7. Both have pledged to lead Croatia out of nearly a decade of authoritarianism and into genuine democra­cy. 

"It is the end of one histor­ical proress, which is open­ing big chances for C..roat.ia's future," said Branko Smerdel, one of the creators of Croatian constitution. 
Croatia is a mix of Balkan, ~leditcrranean and south­eastern European values, and voters seemed ready to be rid of Tudjman, who had ruled Croatia since it gaimid independence in 1991. 
His refusal to initiate 
' ­
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 26, 2000 
BOARD OF GOVERNACE 

Board considers press rights, co-sponsorship funding 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Ediror 
Board of Governance repre­sentatives met with College President Marilou Eldred in late December to discuss a proposal by Notre Dame·s administration that The Observer refuse ads from cer­tain groups unofficially affili­ated with both campuses. 
Ttlf~ studcut government organization has yet lO make an official statement regard­ing its stance on the issue. 
··sasicallv. from an adminis­trative point of view, !the administration felt] it's not really an issue that we can do a lot about," 'said student body president Nancy l\'lidden. "The Observer administrative­ly falls under Notre Dame, and Saint Mary's dor,s not have the same fiscal relation­ship." 
Executive board members said this does not mean that Saint \ilary's administration believes College students should not voice their opin­ions on the matter. 
''They see our position as 


NELLIE WILLIAMSfThe Observer 
subscribers and contributors, 

BOG members discuss the relationship of Saint Mary's students and administration with The Observer. 
and as subscribers, we do have a role in the paper," said to various boards and outside statement, Kahn said. 
vice president Angie Little. 

groups for funding. . The Winter Carnival is"We. as subscribers, should "We're basically going to lis­currently being planned, pos­
be free to take whatever 

ten to the people and hear sibly to coincide with Little
action we see necessary," said their stories," Sondag said. Sibs Weekend, Feb. 25-27.

Notre Dame/Saint Mary's liai­The board upped its co­Events will include a recogni­son Maureen Donovan. 

sponsorship of the El Salvador tion ceremony for spring ath­
An official statement from 

project from last year's $600 letes, a dusk bonfire with hot
Board of Governance is not 

contribution to $1000, voting chocolate and s'mores, the
expected soon. A statement 

12 to one. SAC college bowl, a snow­will not be made unless stu­Stacy Anderson also pre­woman building contest and a
dents request one, Midden 

sented a proposal that would campus Mass in one of thesaid. 
bring a yoga class to Saint residence halls. Mary's athletics for the spring
Selecting co-sponsorship 
semester. Anderson recog­
The board also voted to pass nized a need for the program,co-sponsorships for athletics, 
citing the fact that Saint political science, the El 
Mary's stu­Salvador pro-
dents can­
gram and a not have
"We, as subscribers,
yoga class to access to 
begin this should be free to take N r
o t e semester. whatever action we see Dame's 
Sophomore 
Rolfs athlet­
necessary.
class president 
ic facility
Michelle Nagle 
unless theyrequested Maureen Donovan are on a funding for 
ND/SMC liaison sports team. 


two political 
The board 
science stu­voted to 
dents selected to represent supply funding for the 
Saint Mary's at Election 2000, instructor of the program, but 
an intensive academic pro­
withheld further funding until gram that focuses around the 
a strong base of interest was 

.you
Democratic and Republican 
shown by the student body.
national conventions this summer. 
In other BOG news:
"This is something that goes . Elections for student body

right along with the student 
a 
president and vice president
government mission state­
will be Monday, Jan. 31.
ment," said Nagle, who will "Meet the Candidates Night"
attend the program with 
will be Thursday, Jan. 27, atjunior Heather O'Donnell. 



Sister??
7 p.m., in Haggar Parlor.
The board passed the 
Campaigning begins today atmotion to give students $600 noon, and four teams are run­
to cover airfare, food and 
ning.
transportation expenses while . All-campus formal ticketsat the conventions. 

Come and see.
can be purchased beginning
The athletic department 
Monday, Jan. 31, in the Lealso received financial sup­
Mans lobby during dinner
port for Midnight Madness, hours. One thousand tickets
scheduled for March 31. 
will be sold.
Event coordinators received 
. The board votfld unani­

clearance from Eldred to Mary's Solitude, Saint Mary's campus
mously to donate $150 to St.
include a free semester's 
Margaret's House, a shelter
tuition, free semester's books 
for women .in downtown

and free room and board for a Thursday, January 27 • 8:30. 10 p.m.
South Bend.
semester among the prize list. 
. Molly Kahn, mission com­
The board voted unani­
missioner, expressed interest
mously tu co-sponsor that 
in receiving student feedback

project. (a// or wrife: 
to the first draft of the revised
Andrea Sondag requested 

1219) 284-5356 • vocotions~~cscsisters.org
college mission statement.
funds to assist eight students The revision, which has beenwho will travel to El Salvador in the works for several years,during spring break. The pro­

seeks to condense the state­SISTERS OF Tl IE JIOLY CROSSgram, which needs approxi­
ment to keep Saint Mary's in
mately $15,000. is appealing touch with the heart of the 


Wednesday, January 26, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

is accepting applications for: 
2000-2001 

Editor in Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor in chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Michelle Krupa by 5 p.m., Monday, Jan. 31. For additional information about the position or application process, contact Michelle Krupa at 631-4542, or stop by the office downstairs in South Dining Hall. 

N· ear 

Kn wm 


1r-·-· 
MictosottPress 
le! 

FREE t-shirt* with purchase of any Step by Step title! 
NOTRE DAME 


BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
an •~part,,., of r~tollett.com. 
1,1,EW 6. LISED C0UEGETE)(T9001tl 
"while supplies last AfiCtosoft· 
THE 

Storm dumps snow on East 
Associated Press 
A surprisingly fast-moving storm blankfited the East Coast with up to two feet of wind-blown snow Tuesday, clos­ing airports and schools, paralyzing the nation's capital and leaving North Carolina looking more like North Dakota. 
"The snow has completely covered my car. lt's gone, I can't even see it." Thomas Allen said in Raleigh, N.C. 
A 5-year-uld girl was missing and feared dead in Massachusetts after falling into an icy river while walking to school in heavv snow. 
At least three·people were killed in weather-related traffic accidents Monday or Tuesday in tho Carolinas, and two people were found dead out­side from exposure in South Carolina. 
The storm even intruded on the pres­idential campaign. Most of the candi• dates flew to New Hampshire after the Iowa caucuses, but Republican Alan Keyes got stuck in Detroit, unable to fly into Boston. 
The storm -known as a nur'easter -drove northward along the coast, with moist air from the ocean colliding with cold air over the land. During tho morning, snow fell from South Carolina all the way to Maine. 
The storm raced into the Northeast wHh a speed that surprised forecasters. 
"We knew it was coming. It just decided to hit us a day earlier," said National Weather Service meteorolo­gist Tim Morrin in New York. 
The storm system was to press toward Maine by Wednesday morning, bringing moderate to heavy snows from Pennsylvania through New England. The Southeast was to get a break from the heavy precipitation. 
Tuesday's storm the third snowfall in a week for some states, but for mud1 of the region it was the first major storm in a season that has seen little snow. It was also the worst snowstorm to hit the area since the blizzard of January 1996. 
Most federal agencies shut down in Washington, and were scheduled to be closed again Wednesday. Legislative meetings were called off in Delaware, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania, and Delaware Gov. Thomas Carper had to postpone his State of the State address for the second time in a week because of snow. 
Schools were closed from South Carolina to Maine, including nearly all schools in New Jersey and Maryland. 
Up to 17 inches of snow fell in parts of Virginia. The Baltimore-Washington lnternational Airport got more than 7 inches. Ten inches had accumulated outside Philadelphia at King of Prussia, and New York City measured 6. 
Snow up tu 18 inches deep was fore· cast by the end of the storm in the 
Berkshire  hills  of  western  
M assachusotts.  
The  storm  hit  hardest  in  the  

Carolinas. North Carolina got a record 
20.3 inches at the Raleigh airport. 
The North Carolina utility CP&L had 81,000 customers without power, Duke Power Co. reported 87,000 outages in North Carolina. More than 140,000 people were without power in South Carolina and Virginia Power reported fewer than a thousand customers in the dark. 
North Carolina Gov. Jim Hunt declared a state of emergency, activat­ing the National Guard to help clear streets and rescue stranded motorists. Stalled cars and trucks shut down five miles of Interstate 85. 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 26, 2000 

Students join march for lives of unborn children 
ByA.J. BOYD 
News Writer 
Tens of thousands of pro-life demonstrators participating in the 27th annual March for Life greeted members of Congress as they returned to Washington, D.C., on Monday. 
The protest annually com­memorates the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision that permitted legalized abortion in the Unitod States. 
The National Right to Life Association and staple groups like the Knights of Columbus were joined by pro-life organi­zations of all kinds, from the Dentists for Life to the Pro-Life Eldorly and Homebound. However, continuing in the trend of nicent years, the majority of the ·nrnrchcrs were students predominately from Catholic high schools and col­leges across the country. 
Nearly 200 members of the Notre Dame and Saint Marv's community dedicated much· of last weekend to participate, according to trip co-coordinator Julie Fritsch, a Notre Dame senior. Members of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus and Lwo Holy Cross priests joined the ND/SMC Hight to Life club for the event. 
Father Felippo Morel, of Santiago, Chile, presided at a Mass that began the official events during the busy weekend for NotrP Dame and Saint Mary's participants. Father Pat Neary, gave a homily that set the tone for weekfrnd as he invoked the memory of Mother Then'>sa's prophetic criticism of the United States' pro-abortion 

-
-· 
l/l 
~ 
G)

0 Basement: 
laFortune Student C~nter -,_ Notre Dame. IN 46556 Q..(219) 631-4004 
(Q Open: 
Monday-Saturday
:::, 
12:30-5:30pmVl 
Better still, etch the warning 
signs into your brain. And while you're at it, make a mental note to call 9-1-1 to get help fast any time !hey 
show up. To learn more, visit 
www.americanheart.org or call 1-800-AHA-USA1. 
American Heart ~ Association.V 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 


A.-I-'-2000 KEENAN RElft,~ 
f ebruary 3, 4, and 5


Need 

Ticket Distribution:
A 

Saint Mary's College: 
Wednesday, January 26



Job? 

3:30 -4:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Lobby 
stance in 1994. He likened the weekend's mission to Jonah's warnings of God's wrath at the negligence for life in Nineveh. 
Students then attended the Inaugural College Conference for Life held at Georgetown University. The conference foa­ture d Helen Alvaro of the United States Catholic Conference, and House .Judiciary Committee Chairman Henrv Hvde. 
Hyde, who compared the esti­mated 40 million casualties of legaliwd abortion in the United States to the tragedy of the Holocaust, reminded his audi­ence that "unlike many of the Germans during the beginning of the holocaust. we cannot claim ignorance of this mass homicide." 
In her speech, Alvarf described the efforts of her 
The Men of Keenan Hall Proudly present: 
office in recent years to bring legislation against partial-birth abortions and the sale of vic­tim's organs to research and medical facilities. Twice in recent years Congress has brought such legislation forth only to be vetoed by President Clinton. In both cases the majority was strong enough in the House for an override, but lacked necessary votes in the Senate. 
''.Clinton is literally the one man in the way of protecting thA lives of these children," Alvan~ said. 
The March for Life itself start­ed with a rally on the White House Ellipse at noon Monday. 
Now Open! 
,L?: ,< 
lllolly me guire's coffee house 
Monday-Thursday  7am-llpm  
Friday-Saturday  7am-12  
Sunday  9am-10pm  

1025 South Bend Avenue (Corner of Eddy & So. Bend Ave.) South Bend, Indiana 46617 (219) 287-6966 
$1 OFF SANDWICH/ BEVERAGE COMBO 
Expires February 5th 

e~Soo,,,, 



Notre Dame: Thursday, January 27 4-5 p.m. JACC -Gate 10 
About a dozen members of Congress addressed the assem ­bled protesters, offering their snpport and urging voters to rally behind pro-life candidates in this fall's presidential elec­tions. 
More than 30 representatives several religious groups offered prayers and support, in the ecu­mcmical spirit of the movement that was voiced by Orthodox Archbishop Herman of Philadelphia. 
"We all gather as God's chil­dren to pray for those who don't understand life," he said. "An attituue we can only change if we walk in the footsteps of Christ." 

No lines more than an hour ahead oftime.
Inquiring for a delivery 

2 tickets per ID, one ID per person
person to work a few 

Tickets are, as always, FREE! 
hours per day. 

Wednesday, January 26, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
PAKISTAN 


Taliban rejects U.S. requests, condemns terrorism 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD Afghanistan's ruling Taliban aud Pakistan's militarv leaders havn rebufied 
U.S. appeals to er.ark down on terrorism, and one militant group warned Tuesday ol' a violent backlash if 1hey tried. 
On a visit to the region last week. a top American envoy urged the outlawing of a group blamed f'or hijacking an Indian µlane last month and that steps also be laken to bring terror suspect Osama bin Laden to justice. 
Pakistan did not agree to any specific adions. India charges that Pakistan had a hand in the hijacking, a claim that the United States has rejected. And in neigh­boring Afghanistan, Taliban leaders have refused to hand over bin Laden, charged in the United States with masterminding the deadly bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998. 
Of partir.ular concern to the United States is Harkat ul-Mujahcdeen, the suc­cessor to a Pakistani-based organization that has been declared a terrorist group by Washington. 
A spokesman for a sister organization, Harkat ul-Jehad, warned of violence if Lhe government tried to close the group's offices in Pakistan. 
"We will not hesitate to take any action and believe me there will be a free-for-all hem in Pakistan. It will be anarchy," Abu Mahmood Ashraf said. He added that his group trains in Pakistan and Afghanistan to fight in Kashmir -the flashpoint of Lwo wars between India and Pakistan -and "in 

other Muslim countries "We will not hesitate to spokesman James where Muslims are being take any action ... Rubin dtcd concerns attacked." for some time "that
It will be anarchy."

Ashraf also called bin agencies of tho Laden a hero to Muslims Pakistani govern­world·wide. "Any injury or Abu Mahmood Ashraf ment have provided bis death would be a general support to a
Harkat ul-Jehad spokesman
great shock to us and we would not stop until we have severely punished the United States," he said. 
India accuses Harkat ul-Mujahedeen of staging the Indian Airlines hijacking that ended with 15 5 hostages freed in exchange for the Indian government's release of three members of the group. 
President Clinton said Tuesday them was no evidence that Pakistan supported the hijacking, which Pakistan strongly condemned again on Tuesday. 
"The government uf Pakistan regards lhe highjacking as abhorrent and is com­mited to prosecute any person or persons found and apprendcd on our territory, or in Kashmir, who may be suspected of havng committed that crime. If they are convicted they will be subject to the death penalty," a spokesman for Pakistan's foreign ministry said. 

Ilut State 
Department 
number of groups 
operating in 
Kashmir, including 

llarkat ul-Mujahedeen." 
U.S. assistant secretary of state Karl Inderfurth discussed terrorism concerns last week when he met ruling Gen. Pervcz Musharraf and other leaders of Pakistan. 
"We hope that the government of Pakistan will take steps against such extremist groups which carry out acts of violence inside Pakistan, as well as in the region," Inderfurth said, specifically 

We didn't become Fortune• magazine's America's Most Admired Company* by accepting the status quo. We got there byhiring and training graduates with the confidence and courage to think in innovative and revolutionary ways. 
No other corporation can match the diversity of opportunities at GE. Because we have small company attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, and never leave GE. 
We're a leader in everybusiness we compete in, and we're looking for leaders like Alphie who will take us even further. Start your career byvisiting our website now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. . 
Learn about us at ~ ' .,, _·, ,. ; 

www.gecareers... cam 

GEAircratt Engines•GE Appliances• GE Capital Services• GE Corporate Research and De11elopment•OE Industrial Systems GE Information Services• GE Lighting•Gf Medical Systems· GE Plastics· GE rower Systems •GE Supply• GE Transportation Systems· N6C *3/1/99 
PleaseJoin GE at the Intern Career Fair 
January 27th 12:00 -4:30 pm 
Joyce Center Arena (Stop by to discuss intern opportunities with GE repsfrom Edison Engineering, Financial Management and Information Management Programs -bring your resume) 
We bring goad things to life. 
naming Ilarkat ul-Mujahedeen. 
Pakistan did not promise to crack down on such groups. What Indcrfurth got was a statement sharing Washington's con­cern about terrorism. 
Two days before the Oct. 12 military coup that ended civilian rule in Pakistan, then-Interior Minister Shujaat Hussein told The Associated Press that militant Islamic groups were created by Pakistan, its military and its intelligence agency. 
Hussein said his government had asked the Taliban to shut down camps in Afghanistan, where Pakistanis were receiving military training. While publicly denying the existence of these camps, Hussein said the Taliban privately promised Pakistan to close them. 
The United States also has asked Pakistan, one of only three countries to recognize the Taliban, to use its influence against bin Laden. 
Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil, the Taliban's foreign minister, said Monday that bin Laden won't be extradited or handed over to the United States or a third country for trial. Taliban leaders had met with Inderfurth, but of further discussions with the United States, Muttawakil said "we don't want to talk to them." 
GUATEMALA 


Police issue warrant in bishop's death 
. Authorities seek bishop's assistant for questioning, arrest cook and military personel 
Associated Press 
GUATEMALA CITY 

Authorities again want to arrest a priest who was implicated and then released in the slaying of a Roman Catholic bishop and human rights leader. 
The warrant Monday for the Rev. Mario Orantes comes after weekend arrests that indicate possible military involvement in the slaying of Bishop Juan Gerardi. Police did not clarify the renewed interest in Orantes. 
Gerardi was bludgeoned to death in his garage April 26, 1998, two days after pre­senting a report blaming the military and pro-government death squads for most of the deaths during Guatemala's 36-year civil war, which ended in 1996. 
It was the first slaying of an activist since the government and leftist guerrillas signed the peace accords. 
Orantes, who was Gerardi's assistant, was jailed for seven months but was released in February after protests that investigators had overlooked possible mil­itarv involvement. 
Orantes' family members said Monday that authorities may have trouble tracking down the 40-year-old priest, who received permission to travel to the United States in October, citing anonymous threats and health reasons. 
Police over the weekend also arrested a church cook and two men with army ties. and said Jose Obdulio Villanueva, a for­mer presidential guard who is serving time for the murder of another priest, had a possible role in Gerardi's death. 
The intense movement in the case comes barely a week after new president Alfonso Portillo took office. 
Portillo, a former Marxist scholar, vowed during the campaign to clear up the case. 




~·· •. --------­. .~ . . I . 
.·. ·,11¥Pf818 
•.. •·:!i-·. ~.n-,:.~t-.t n--,;· •~"lh«ai: 
::~ ~==. t : . . -:JY¥.~ C@llj:v•: 
··,ft'i 111-~fu tfl:H ·. · i.-i;-"-''.-~::·:·'-•~ic~:~:'1 i1:::'M': 
U}f No1!lJ1l-.;~t'.'}~.i~~~ ~-;,f;li!E~~-ra'f 
test 
h.trurwM,.,...,,.._'ti 
on 
i::.:~1$,h,) .,, 1_.~:; .._:~;_:h'l.ll,..L6?..Jl r-~-, -,F•_tlf 1-',d111~:1':.# ,;;n:.-=Bi•~~ ~--~~&in~ .,v..
•t-..~,,-'
s 
~: 1$' ! ~"!-,.'.':~ ~ir--.~,~~-i-~-~~:\111$:.t.,~~t.. ~ 
op on 3,000 50 industrie 

;.,,>;..-~~ ,,.,,',:lJ Jf~'.°'."<~c-J..:;:•:1;/. ~~} !',t~t ~ ~~-• t'.~1N''U · r·k~Jl'\.ll;;)'):-f. ~d'if'°4~·J'f ~flJ-jW~'IJ:)··;it, ,'i>lt!l.~"1/ ilf ,ui 1;,,,.,-•nU1•Wl tr:.<fJ;o;4~,•-:i ••·1 t;,,-~ai <->tC· .-1--•~Ji:llll 
k-1:liit~..'-·J ,~ •~~Wl t~~ -t;.,t1f4"'•¢cortr .......~~--l.13it:'' 
fi'folmall hr,llJlilwlt 
:.. ;~;::1.~-~:.::,V;;._~?:_:·;_·_-.:_:_2,;t,. t·· ·,; 
l.ra·~ 
"'" ~-tHJ,f', Jo,k P""""rl lrt ,n,uw..,..1..y-
JuL S1HkUi 
Wednesday, January 26, 2000 The Obsnva . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
AFRICA 
U. N. begins efforts to reinforce failing cease-fire in Congo 
shore up Congo's faltering peacekeepers. ment of the observer mission their homes. 
Associated Press cease-fire. Congo's government, the could be weeks away, while Holbrooke invited leaders of The gesture of support came country's rebels and tlrn sur­authorization for a full-fledged the nations involved to New UNITED NAllO;-.JS after seven African heads of rounding nations that were peacekeeping force is still in York this week to renew their Responding to Afriu_m lead­state -including major play­drawn into the conflict signed doubt. pledges to last summer's ers' requests, the U.N. Security ers in the regional war -a cease-fire accord last sum­The U.S. Congress must cease-fire agreement. The Council was laying ground­accused the Security Council of mer. The accord envisioned approve any expansion of the sides began talks Monday. On work Tuesday for an eventual shirking its responsibilities by U.N. peace-current U.N. Tuesday, they met in closed­
U.N. pPacPkePping force to ddaying the deployment of keeprrs. mission. door meetings to discuss
"/The! meeting ofthe 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
;;;:;:;a-. 
JPW 2000 Seating Registration 

Seating picks are due this week, so be sure to choose who you will sit with, and hand in your brunch and/or dinner slips! 
¦ You can drop off your slips: ¦ Thursday, January 27th, 1-6pm Friday, January 28th, 12-4pm 
At the Center for Continuing Education (next to the Post Office) 


But the "We think details of implcmenting the agreement African presidents that y·cster­peace accord. has since illustrated the fact that day' s cxtra­Kabila said Tuesday he still teetered on o rd in a r y wants to make the peace
they all want to make
the brink of meeting of process work. lie said the collapse, with progress. " the African cease-fire agreement had fighting p r e-s i d e n t s failed thus far because it between the illustrated hadn't led to the withdrawal of
Richard Holbrooke 
two sides in both the fact Rwandan and Ugandan troops
U. S. ambassador
several parts that they all from his country. The peace of Congo. want to make accord calls fouhe full with­l\Jeanwhile, progress, but drawal of all foreign troops. the possibility of a full-fledged that there are serious prob­Rwanda and Uganda say peacekeeping mission has lems, and that the U.N. has an they arc supporting the remained distant. important role to play there," Congolese rebels to protect 
The United States has been Holbrooke said. their own borders from seen as a major stumbling The war in Congo has drawn attacks by Rwandan and block to sending in troops. But in a half-dozen African Ugandan rebel groups based on Mondav, it said i.t would na.tions. Uganda and Rwanda inside Congo. Rwandan support a peacekeeping force· back the rebels who rose up in President Pasteur Bizimungu if all sides begin consolidating August 1998 to said Tuesday pnacP,. oust Congolese he was will­
"We don't want them
U.S. Ambassador Richard President ing to with­Holbrooke, the current presi­Laurent shooting us in draw his dent of the Security Council, Kabila. Kabila, troops "even
our own backs. " 
told reporters Tuesday that a meanwhile, tomorrow" resolution now being drafted enlisted the as long as
Pasteur Bizimungu
outlines U.N. recommenda­support of Rwandan tions for an initial 5,500-man Zimbabwe, Rwandan president Hutu mili­force, including 500 military Angola and tants in observers and 3,400 troops to Namibia. Congo are protect them. The war has destabilized the permanently disarmed. 
So far, there are 79 U.N. entire region, killing untold "We don't want them shoot­military _liaison officers tn numbers of people and uproot­ing us in our own backs," he Congo. Approval and deploy-ing close to 1 million from said. 
ABN AMRO/LaSalle Banks AFLAC AT & Tl Finance Alcoa Allegiance Corporation Allstate Insurance Company American Express Financial 
Advisors American Management Systems Amway Corporation Andersen Consulting Arthur Andersen 8DO Seidman, LLP Bank One Corporation Baxter Healthcare Corporation CSG Systems, Inc. Camp Sweeney Cargill Cassady, Neeser & Brasseur Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. 

Chase Securities, Inc.  Hewitt Associates  
Ciberlncorporated  Hill & Knowlton  
Clarity Consulting, Incorporated  Honeywell  
Clarke Environmental  IBM  
Mosquito Management  Illinois DOT  
College Gifted Programs  Indiana DOT  
Compaq Computer Corporation  INTEL Corporation  
Credit Suisse First Boston  Isanogel Center  
Dana Corporation  KPMG,LLP  
Davis, Conden, Enderle & Sloan  Kajima Construction Services  
Deloitte & Touche  Legal Services of Northern Indiana  
Delphi Automotive Systems  Meijer, Inc.  
Discover Financial Services  Meritor Automotive  
Enterprise Rent-A-Car  Minnesota Life  
Ernst & Young  Nabisco Biscuit Co.  
Ford Motor Company  Navigant Consulting  
General Electric  Northwestern Mutual Life  
General Mills  Notre Dame Council for International  
General l\lotors  Business Development  
Geneva Youth Center  PricewaterhouseCoopers  

AMS Tech Alliance for Health Reform American Business Press American Civil Liberties Union American Legislative Exchange Council 
A,nerican Rivers, Inc. Americans for Democratic Action Appalachian Mountain Club Appel Farm Arts & Music Center Aquarium of Niagara Au Pair in Europe BUNAC-Work in Britain 


2000 SUMMER & INTERNSHIP JOB FAIR 

Sponsored by The Career Center 
EVERY MAJOR! EVERY DEGREE! EVERY GRADUATION DATE! Thursday, January 27, 2000 
12:00 noon -4:00 p.m. Bring your resumes to the 
North Dome (Hockey Rink Side) Joyce Center Arena! 


Resume/Document(s) drop 
Burke/Triolo Productions Center for Campus Organizing Chesterwood Museum Comerica Bank Concordia Orchestra First Investors Corporation Fox News Channel Goldman Sachs Gregg M. Rzepczynski & Associates ldyllwild Arts Summer Program Indiana Dept. ofTransportation Johns Hopkins University Center 
For Talented Youth 


Procter & Gamble (3 Divisions) Right Services, Incorporated SARG -Student Alumni Relations 
Group Signature Graphics, Inc. South Bend Silverhawks State of Indiana -State Personnel Dept. Student Conservation Association TRW Technology Services Group Tellabs The Associates The Mony Group, Inc. Tucker Alan, Incorporated United States Air Force United States Marine Corps University Directories Virtualintern.com William Mercer, Inc. Wolfram Research, Inc. 
Kids Corporation Lake View Hotel -Mackinac Island Mandalay Pictures & Television McGraw -Hill Publishing Merrill Lynch Mid-America Committee Monterey Bay Aquarium 
Research Institute Museum of Contemporary Art Musiker Tours & Summer Discovery NASA -Johnson Space Center Naval Historical Center New England Financial Nordam Overseas Private Investment Corp. Plimouth Plantation Project Future Project on Government Oversight Random House Roswell Park Cancer Institute Rubin, Brown, Gorstein & Company Sagemark Consulting Sigma-Aldrich Corporation The Atlantic Council of the U.S. The Brookings Institution Vector Marketing Corporation 










VIEWPOINT 
OTHE page I 2 BSERVER Wednesday, January 26, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
Tl,~ !1Jdtpmrf~ut, D.11ily NtmJpapt'"' Strring Norr, D11mt' nNII Snim Mrrryl 
P.O. Box Q. Notre 0.1me, IN 46556 024 Sot1tl.1 Din111g Hall, Norre Dame, !N 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF IA ichclle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MA"IAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pnellc  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPO11'T EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS FDITOR: Rrian Kessl~r 
ScEN.E EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MAJly's :EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO FDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lun 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Hudar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik K,1shrn 
CONTROLLER: Timothy I:me GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGE.'IERAL INFO............ 631-7471 FAX............. . . .... ....................................631-6927 ADVERTISING..... .. .............631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF. ................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EotTOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS......... ............................. 631-5323 observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT... ............................. 631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS .......................................................631-4543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu SCENE .............. ..... .... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu ........ 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO....... ....................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS...............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver. nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carrnons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
weekly srudenr reviews 
minute tOreGlSts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
arrides published afrer 
ro meet che edi rors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudencs of rhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpomt sp.i.ce is available ro all readers. The free exprc:.·ssion of all opinions rhrough lenen is enc0t1L1ged Letters to the &liror must be signed and must indude t:ontJ.~r in!Urnurion. 
Qutstiom regm·tli,,~ Obm11er policies should be direct­ed to &Iitor i11 Chie/Michef!e Krupa. 

Don't slash the ballot -I want to vote 

This column is a lament for Monday night's losers. 
I haven't voted yet. . 
And I don't mean in this election. Being an Independent living in 
Maryland, ram 
not allowed to vote 
until November. 
I haven't voted in any election since r became eli­gible for such a privilege in 1993. 
Yes·. I was a gov­ernment major at Notre Dame. Yes. I watch C-SPAl\J and CNN whenever I can. Yes, I do have extensive opinions about American politics. 
A long period of time without any permanent address and a lack of Maryland state elections in 1999 will make the first presidential election of the new century also the first election in which I will vote. 
The only problem is that I am not too certain that I want to. 
Unlike a large number of people that I know. I am a moderate liberal. I would have voted for Bill Clinton despite his scandals. But he didn't need my help. 
I was ready to embrace Al Gore as a carrier of similar ideals but with the added bonus of being an environmen­talist (and relatively scandal-free). 
Then I heard the man try to give an impassioned speech. 
I hate to say it. but our vice president just does not sound sincere in that tone of voice. I-le sounds like a man who thinks to himself'. "This will get applause." before he says something. 
Another unfortunate aspect to the Democratic frontrunner is that. in his normal tone of voice. he couldn't inspire w0.t grass to grow on a warm. sunnv dav. 
Soi tur.ned my thoughts to the mulli-talented Bill Bradley. Suppressing the retch of voting for a New York athlete, I watched his demeanor on the cam­paign trail and the Sunday morning talk shows. 


What I saw was a man who could lead the country. He gives off the air of a leader. None of his policy statements about gun control, education or cam­paign finance seemed too radical for a Republican Congress but rather like a step in the right direction. 
Ignoring media-fed hype about his temper or his heart problems. he seems dynamic enough to do the job. Unfortunately, a poor showing in Iowa against Gore may go a long way in eliminating him from consideration before I even get around to the booth. 
I hope not. 
I wasn't even going to think about the Reform Party. It should be renamed as the 1-don't-have-a-chance­in-hell-of-a-regular-party-nomination Party. Donald Trump probably thinks he could convert the White House into a nice. posh tower hotel. Jesse Ventura is a "sexual tyrannosaurus," as he so eloquently puts it in the movie "Predator." and therefore completely out of contention for a job that needs to be held by a man who will NEVEH have sex. at least not for the next few years. 
In my estimation, Pat Buchanan is the perennial recipient of the Adolf Hitler award for most hatred espoused in one lifetime since 1945. Plus, he went to my rival high school, Gonzaga College-High School in Washington, D.C., so I couldn't vote for him even if' he were human. 
Then I considered whom I might take from the right. 
George W. Bush is the great unknown. As governor of Texas, he has led one of the largest states in the country. But that doesn't help me to get past the creeping sensation that he is a front candidate whom a large por­tion of the Hepublican Party is getting behind simply because he can win with his name. I liked his father as presi­dent. But that doesn't mean I am ready to vote for the son. 
Steve Forbes is trying to buy the presidency and should therefore be sent to Canada. 
Alan Keyes is from Maryland. We have heard enough out of him here. 
Gary Bauer gives me the creeps. The way that he stares at the camera, I want to run and hide under my bed. I don't know anything about him and I am afraid that if I find out it might only scare me more. 
Orrin Hatch has all of the charisma of a man without a pulse. Has anyone checked for,it recently? 
I lived in Arizona for a couple of years and thus felt a special connec­tion to John McCain. who used to be my senator. Yes, he has a temper. Yes, he did say that Nancy Reagan ·s "Just say no" campaign actually worked. But still, hr, has proven that he is willing to work with Democrats on such vital issues as campaign finance reform and gun control measures. Such non-parti­sanship is what I was hoping for in a candidate. That. in addition to his record of war service to this country and his attitude of certainty about his principles, makes him the only candi­date on the right that I can vote for. 
But alas. He, like my Democratic choice. also did poorly in Iowa. I only hope that this state -and other minor players like it -don't keep either of those candidates from my ballot when I step up in November. 
I want to vote. I really do. 
I just don't think that I can. in all good conscir,nce, unless Bradley or McCain is on the ticket. 
Can you? 
Matt Loughran, a 1998 Notre Dame grad, is an editorial assistant at a publishing house in Lanham, Md., and is studying for a master's degree in liberal arts from St. John's College in llnnapolis, Md. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
BY TUESDAY MY 

GREAT.
~ WALLY, 

I'LL JU5T
BRAIN WAS SO 
j I HAVE 

FORGET
J SOME
FULL THAT I HAD 
:,Q) 
1ij INFOR· 

THE FIFTH
TO FORGET THINGS 
u.."' 

GRADE.
MATION
TO MAKE ROOM 




QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Vote for the man who promises least; he'll be the least disappointing." 
Bernard M. Baruch former presidential advisor 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Wednesday, January 26, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Give Democrats a chance! 

This letter is in response to Laura Antkowiak's r.olumn entitled "Abortion issue still vital no mat­ter what candidates say." 
Laura is certainlv wrrect Abortion. whether you are pro-life or.pro-choice, is an important issuf', and it should be taken into r.onsidern.tion when deciding for whom to vote. But is abortion the only issue? In a coun­lrv where onf' out of t'ive r.hil­
d;cn lives in poverty, 45 million PfWple are with­out medical insurance 11.nd the political sys­tem is flooded with massive "soft money" contri­butions from spcrial interest groups, I tend not to let a single issUf~ decide my ballot. 
Laura. on the other hand. has chosen to "ignore the Democratic primary. as Vic1\ President Al Gore and Senator Bill Bradlev both staunrhly support 
abortion." In tlrn upcoming elec­lions. I urge voters to take a 
~\lSLt".-1 
.~ 
.----.J 

__.,__.I
Ocl'J A. 
~ 

look at all the issues confronting our nation. I think a surprising num---------­income tax system with lower and fewer rates that would increase fairness to millions of Americans b_v closing billions of dollars worth of special interest loopholes. By contrast, 36 per­cent of G.W. Bush's proposed $800 billion-plus tax cut is directed toward the top 1 perc1mt of 
income earners. The Democrats are fighting to reduce handgun violence and decrease the proliferation of the guns that kill 13 children a day. Conversely, Republicans are notorious bedfel­lows with the NHA. While Democrats
\ 
fight to reform 
1 the campaign finance sys­tem so that 
you and I have equal influence on our govern­ment as big 
business, the Republicans routinely vote to keep big money firmly 
within the political arena. Finally, the 
Democrats are far . superior to Republicans regarding race relations, the environment and opposition to the School of the Americas. 

ber or Notre_ Dame stud~nts will actually find In the upcoming election. I urge you to look themselves m support ot the Democrats. at the big picture and refrain from narrowing 
Currently. thr. Democrats are fighting to guar-your decision making process down to one issue. a.ntec health care for every d1ild, provide access Lo affordabl!' health care to everv American Jeffrey Stuffings reducr child poverty and case the pressures· on Secretary working families. Republicans are more intent College Democrats on finding new and creative ·ways to "slash" the January 25, 2000 
welfare rolls. The Democrats are fighting for an 


ViewpoiV\t waV\ts 


)!Ov\. 
SubW\it tvVo 800-vVoJ,Ad coliunV\s to SDf-1 by Friday1 3aV\, 28. 
Do it for the letters. 


Notre Dame still needs to diversify 
"Why do you talk so white?" 
"Aren't you going to wash your hair?" 
"Ifyou are supposedly Latino. why is your skin so white?" 
"Hey chink. why are you here? Go back to your lab!" 
"Do you speak Mexican?" 
"I refuse to live with a black girl; I 
OMSA

demand to change roommates." "That stuff you are eating smells so bad, get it out of here!" 
What's Your

"White people can't dance!" 
Shade?

Whoa! Pretty appalling comments. huh? Surprisingly, they are actual statements between students collected to catch your attention and interest you into reading this column. 
Whi!e some of you have been at either the receiving or giving end of these comments. others might be shocked and wonder­ing, "How can this be happening? Not at Notre Dame! Not at a Catholic school, an institution that stood by Martin Luther King Jr. during the Civil Rights Movement and a university that embraces all cultures and races without prejudice!" 
Well, you better start believing because problems involving race relations are still rampant on this campus. At this point, you may be pondering your own views on diversity. You might personally believe that everyone, regardless of race, ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation should have equal treatment and opportunities. Since you are void of any prejudiced sentiments and have never experienced offensive comments (or been aware of them}, race relations may not be a priority. Perhaps you think claims of racism on campus are outrageous and unfounded, especially since this has never affected you direct­ly. Perhaps you think that this is nothing more than people making a storm over of cup of water. My question to you and to myself. however. is this: How have you actively promoted and enhanced diversity in your life? 
For instance. let's analyze the issue of race relations. When was the last time you sat by someone with a different color of skin. dress-style or accent? And even if you have sat by people different from you, how often do you talk with them and make an. effort to hear their stories? Minority students, in particular. represent a segment of the Notre Dame culture whose diversity is magnified within the· mass of the majority. It is sometimes hard to imagine being the only person in an entire classroom, dining hall, dorm room or party that has certain physical characteristics -unless you have been in that situation. 
Imagine walking into a classroom where everyone is Native American, and you are the only one who is not. Can you con­template how strange and awkward it is to sound different and to look different from the majority, day in and day out? Minority students often react by clinging to one another and isolating themselves from the majority. Consequently, this cre­ates distinctive groups that are isolated, and the communica­tion between them is almost negligible. 
There becomes an invisible barrier as people begin to lose their desire and willingness to reach out to each other. The dining hall offers many ways these barriers are exemplified. Whether it be students desperately seeking to be with those people with whom they identify or other students who feel intimidated and unwelcome at the "Black," "Asian," "Hispanic," "Athletic" or even the "Zahm" table; the invisible lines are drawn. 
Many students face these lines over and over, but their sto­ries often go unheard. Other students recognize these lines, but have no motivation to do anything about it. Either way, the fundamental idea is that people are scared to leave their com­fort zones. They get trapped in a path of complacency. so secure in their apathy, that they never make the initiative to bridge the gap. ls failing to leave these comfort zones or mak­ing an effort to understand how diversity enriches life any dif­ferent from being a racist? 
It is easy to see why many people feel overwhelmed and dis­illusioned. But what can be done to revert this sad picture? It all begins with the little things. Instead ofjust passing by stu­dents that look different from you, go up to them and introduce yourself. If you hear offensive jokes or comments. do not let it just slip by -speak up! When you sit at a table filled with diverse people, make an effort to really get to know them. 
Take the time to notice various cultural events on campus. and make an active effort to attend and participate in these events. (Note to self: Don't delete the OMSA messages, and if you don't know what OMSA stands for, find out!) 
More than anything, remember to be persistent, be coura­geous and be willing to learn about the overlooked diversity of our "Notre Dame bubble." The path of complacency leads to a dead end. Each person has a responsibility to leave his or her comfort zones and embrace the spirit of reciprocity in which you receive and contribute to who we are today. 
Anthony Sieh, Sharon Watson and Ken Seifert contributed to this column. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necesarily those ofThe Observer . 
.,... ________,,.._______.___ _.________ 
T H 
en 
E R 
page 14 Wednesday, January 26, 2000 
THEATER PREVIEW 


Student players present 'Jeffrey' 

NIELSEN RATINGS 

By JACQUELINE OSTROWSKI 
Scene Writer 

A gay man's der.ision to give up sex spurs the complex series of events that take place in the Notre Dame Student Players' production of "Jeffrey." 
The play centers on the main character. Jeffrey, played by senior Quincy Starnes, who 
larly enjoyed the role of' Debra Moorhouse. "She's the nation's hottest post-modern evange­list," said Murray-Nolan, quoting the script. "l love her because she's so confident and kick• butt." 
The Notre Dame Student Players is an entirely student-run group, so studenl.:; do everything for "Jcffrny," from costumes and lighting to directo­rial decisions. Lane noted that the players do work with the theater department. but all der.i­
decides that sex is too com­"AIDS is out there. What if sions are student-made. plicated. Consequently, he "We don't have sCfmery and
you do Jall in love with 
decides to become celibate lighting to work with like in order to detach himself someone who's HIV-positive? mainstage productions," completely from all tempta­You need to know how to deal said Starnes. tions. Instead, the cast uses cre­
with this. " 

Supporting characters ative costumes and distinct include Steve, an HIV-posi­acting to separate charac­tive man who wants to be Quincy Starnes ters. Scenes are designated with Jeffrey, and a gay cou­actor by details as small as the 
ple, Sterling and Darius, who offer their unique insighl<i to Jef1'rey's situation. 
The play contains conlrovcrsial matter, includ• ing some vulgar language, sexual dialogufl and sPnsitive topics, such as the conflicts between homosexuality and religion. Sophomore Kathleen Lane, who serves as student director for "Jeffrey," acknowledged Urn potential for controversy, but remained confident in the pro­duction. "I'vn gotten good reactions from most people I've talked lo Iabout the playl," said Lam1. 
This material posed a challenge l'or some actors. Lane said one dmllengc lays in "forming deep relationships betwmin some of the charac­ters. We had to work on connections lbdween charactf1rs] and instant attraction. One look has to show so much emotion." 
In a play with only nine cast mcmbPrs, eight of' whom play multiple characters. character devel­opment proved cspr1cially important. Sophomore Michaela Murray-Nolan, who plays four strik­ingly different clrnraclflrs, i'rom a "Jersey Malia princess" to a symbolic Mother Teresa, particu­
addition or removal of' 

r:hairs or tables. Still, the impact of ''Jeffrey's" content far outweighs its scenery. The subject matter proves strong enough to carry the play through Jeffrey's tumultuous emotions. 
Cast members seem to share the desire to enlighten their audience. "I hope people can come in and take something away from l'Jcffrny'I." said junior Tom Dolphin. who plays Steve, Jeffrey's love interest. 
Starnes aw-ees. "It's hard bning so young, but we deal with this every day," lw said. "/\[l)S is 
out there. 
What if vou 

"Jeffrey" do fall. in love with 
. Who: Notre Dame Student Players 
someonc 

. 
Where: Washington Hall who's IIIV­p o s i ti v e? 

. 
When: Thursday -Saturday, 7:30 


You need to 

p.m. know how to deal with
. Tickets: $2 at the door 
this." 


Quincy Starnes 
and Otis Hill star 
in "Jeffrey." 
MARY CALASHrrhe Observer 

k ofTanuary I7-23 


Television show Rating 
1. Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (fhursday) 19.6 2. Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (fuesday) 19.2 3. Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (Sunday) 17.4 4. Golden Globe Awards 15.0 5. NFC Football Championship Post-Game Show 14.1 6. Friends 13.3 
7. Everybody Loves Raymond 12.3 7. Frasier 12.3 9. Jesse 11.8 
10. NYPD Blue 11. 5 



Total Viewers 
19.8 million 
19.4 million 
17.5 million 15.1 million 
14.2 million 
13.4 million 
12.4 million 
12.4 million 11. 9 million 
11.6 million 
Source: Associated Press 



Wednesday, January 26, 2000 page 15 
VIDEO REVIEW 
FTT's 'The Loft Tapes' showcases ND's student films 
Bv MIKE VANEGAS 
Scene Editor 
T~w '90s were a tumultuous deradc. With the threat or an onrnming millennial revolution !which never took place). all facf'ts of American culture cncmmterPd identitv crises con­rerning their roles "and purpos­es in the ruture. But within the mind of !Wery man and woman in every corner of the world, all imaginahle risks and dangers disappeared into nothing. Those minds lived dailv on creative inspiration found in the most rommonplacr. bits or life. 
Alas. those minds created what common folk call student films. But in truth. they are gateways into the crazy imagi­nations or Generation X. In the 1rnwly released conglomeration "The Loft Tapes." onP sees the Seinfeldian minutiae that domi­natcid the 1990s. 
The 110-minute videotape, availablf' at thP bookstore. bngins with lhefilm "Eat. Mate. Die" bv Brent DiCrnscenzo and M-K K·enncdv. The film takf's a look at the future of humanity, presPnting a monotonously doonwd world in which all that people do is eat. mate and. of course. die. 
ThP nonchalance of the inhabitant-; of this world alluw thPrn to takf~ a jog over count­less dPad bodiPs and dL'irnss the "Star Wars"-ian nature of humanity while burying bodies at thf' bPach. Eventually. the mildly sarcastic tone of tlrn piece prepares viewcrs for the rest of the student films to appear on the vidr.otapc. 
In Brian Faiola's and Kevin Loncar·s "Lungwamen," a young boy who feels a primor­dial urge to !'ind his Native American roots beromes a leg­end among his Native American pePrs. What lirst seems to be a coming-ol'-ag{) narrative. though, soon becomes a critique 
• of and 


explana­
The effect

tion f6r the "The Loft Tapes: 
was that a

current female

state of Student Films from 
sensitivity

various 
was given


Native Notre Dame" 
to a some­

American 
t i m e seconomies. 


insensitivewhirh rnst 

subject ­

largely 
the male 

upon casi­out of five shamrock~, 
nos. b o d y . Despite the 
The film 
Facets Video awkward

has a sto­
presence

rybook quality, At the bookstore for $24 of, as the 
making its in i ti a I attraction understandable. But soon the lack of a consistent tone -is it serious or mocking" -makes "Lungwamen" just anotlmr student film. 
"The Loft. Tapes" does not get into its groove, really. until its eighth film, Jennifer Crcscenzo's and Jim McNamee's "Full Frontal Nudity," which is perhaps the most provocative film in the col­lect.ion. 
The film opens with a female voiceover speaking about the trials and tribulations of being a nude model for art students. Simultaneously, one sees a screen behind which someone -perhaps a female -is strip­ping in preparation fo1· a ses­sion. 
Suddenly, though, viewers realize that the nude model is a man. 
The juxtaposition of the male body and the female voice was 
indeed a 
surprise. 
title of the 
film warns, full frontal nudity, the film suc­ceeds in making an emotional connection with viewers. In this case. one realizes the sacred­ness of the human body, in a.II forms, and the often absurd preoccupation Americans have with nudity. 
The final seven films of the r.ollection continue what "rull Frontal Nudity" begins -a look at the diverse nature of mankind's thoughts. fears, likes and dislikes. "Restroom" acts as a teaching tool to those interest­ed in everything having to do with lavatories. Using various scenes from a "Leave it to Beaver" dinner to a Mafia shoot-out, the film humorously but effectively brings the bath­room into American social prominence. 
Addressing a more serious subject through lighthearted teen angst, "Pocket Guide to White Youth" flashes through various sequences of typical American teenagers. But when the film spirals toward its attack on suburban race relations, it strays from the "Dawson's Creek" it tries to be and advances toward the "American History X" it becomes. Well, perhaps it is not as dramatically heavy as "X,'' but it does prove to be a smart commentary on "White Youth." 
Perhaps the wackiest of the 15 films, "Leather Coat" at first glance looks to be another social commentary on the drea­ry subject of homelessness. But it quickly becomes a farcical enjoyment that puts into ques­tion the motives of those advan­taged Americans who at all costs try to help the disadvan­taged. Rut like "Pocket Guide to White Youth," the film ends bravely, with the goodness of good will winning out over the cynical nature oflife in the '90s. 
Finally. "Love Dad" takes a look at dads and their unwill­ingness to show their love for their kids, especially their sons. But instead of some mother­daughter melodrama on the lines of last fall's "Anywhere But Here," "Love Dad" is a slapstick 

AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

PHILLIP CARUSO/Warner Bros. 

Robert De Niro will receive a lifetime achievement award at the Berlin Film Festival. 
Film Festival will honor De Niro's life 
BERLIN Robert De Niro will be honored with a lifetime achievement award next month at the Berlin Film Festival. 
Festival chief ~oritz de Hadeln said De Niro "has captivated the theater pubhc ~orldwide with some of the most exciting and noteworthy actmg performances in films." 
De Hadel~ said he hopes De Niro will accept the award in person durmg the Feb. 9-20 festival, which also will feature 12 of De Niro's movies. 
De Niro won an Academy Award for best actor in 1980 for }laging Bull." His other movies include the Oscar-winning The Godfather Part II," "Taxi Driver" and "The Deer 
Hunter." 

Boss makes encore of reunion tour 
NEW YORK The Boss and his band are coming back for an encore of their acclaimed reunion tour. 
On Tuesday. Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band announced 28 new shows in 24 cities beginning in February and running through June. 
_The first show is scheduled for Feb. 28 at State College, Pa. Tickets go on sale Feb. 5. The tour concludes with a five-night stand at Madison Square Garden -June 12, 15, 17, 20 and 
22. Those tickets go on sale Feb. 19. Ti~~ets will go on sale this Saturday in nine other cities, and add1twnal shows will be announced later this year. 
Last year, Springsteen and the band did 8 7 shows in 44 cities in Europe and the United States for more than 1.8 mil­lion fans. 
It was their first extended series of shows in more than a ?ec~de and th~ ~econd highest-grossing tour of 1999. bring­mg m $61.4 m11lwn, according to Pollstar magazine. 
t.
l 930s record may be Sinatra's first 
HOBOKEN, N.J. Experts say a lacquered aluminum record from the 1930s could contain Frank Sinatra's first recording as a solo artist. 
The recording, made by amateur musician Walter Costello, features Sinatra singing "Roses of Picardy," accompanied by Costello on the accordion. 
"My opinion is that the record is for real," said Tom Owen, a voice identification expert. "If it's not Sinatra, it's the best fake you could do." 
Sometime over the past decade, sound from the warped record was transferred to a CO. 
Costello's widow, Angela "Dolly" Calandriello, said she has no plans for the disc other than to display it at a Sinatra mini­museum in Hoboken, called From Here to Eternity. 

Tennis Hall of Fame inducts Navratilova 
LOS ANGELES 

The International Tennis Hall of Fame has thrown open its doors to Martina Navratilova. She will be inducted July 15 in Newport. R.I. In a career that stretched from 1973 until 1994, Navratilova 
won 167 singles titles and 165 doubles crowns, both records. Her singles titles include a record nine Wimbledons, four U.S. Opens. three Australian Opens and two French Opens. 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 26, 2000 
NHL 

The Obsen:e~ accepts dassifie_ds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
T helch~firgedts) cents per characte~ per day, includ111g all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit


CLASSIFIEDS 

11 
a c asst 1e s ror content without 1sst11ng refunds. 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  6 BEDRM. '00-'01  SPRING BREAK 2000  I like my friends with a side of  
WANTED  The Early Childhood Development Center. located at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre  $1200/mo. 273-0482  PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SANO­PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT  PERSONAL  tolerance. I am a bitter, vindicative woman.  
Dame, is looking for volunteers who  THE "FUN PLACE"!  
enjoy young children.  www.thecommentator.com  Scrunch, scrunch, scrunch.  
COACH: Need Jr. High girls coach- JI you would be interested in spend- Available Fall 2000. 4-6 Student  TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN­ 
responsible,clependable,student or  ing 2 hours a week reading chil- Rental House ...2 112 baths: lots of  MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT­ skrinch. skrinch. skrinch.  
grad to coach ?-8th grade girls bas- dren's books, building with blocks.  space; Parking Lot and Laundry ...  ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE  What do you WANT me to do?  
ketball B-teamJan-Mar;for south- and singing songs with children,  Dave 291-2209  HARD BODY CONTESTS  mung. mung. mung.  
side elementary school, located  please call Amy Moskalick at 284­ WHAT do you want me to do?  
near Scottsdale Mall on Miami  4693 (ECDC-SMC) or Thayer  3 POOLS LAlY RIVER WATER  gross. gross. gross.  
Street.Must be available for prac- Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC-ND).  SLIDE  What DO you want me to do?  
tices Mon-Thurs from 2:20-3:15.  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  HUGE BEACHFRONT HOT TUB  Hi my name is slim shady.  
Game schedule varies with 9-10  Please join our fun filled days.  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF NO  MINI GOLF  What do YOU want me to do?  
games beginning after school at  EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD  GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10  I have been in the basement for 12  
4:00,or 5+p.m.  CLOSE 2773097  PEOPLE  What do you want me lo DO?  hours and 15 minutes.  
Paid position Call 291-4200 to apply.  FOR RENT  1-800-488-8828  What do you want me TO do ?  let me go, please ...  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  
6 BDRM HOME.FURN.AVAIL  FOR SALE  USED COMPUTER, COMPAQ  What do you want ME to do?  hey T, we went from having zero pictures of you to having a about a  
Work tor an exciting College  NOW.$150. PER. 272-6306  Hello my girls!  million in less than an hOur.  
focused company at your school!  167 MgHz Pentium Processor  
Lookin.g for motivated individuals  2'"6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272­ Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  33HzModem  you know who you are  pretty, impressive, huh?  
with strong leadership, entrepre­ 6306  with orthopedic mattress and  64 MB  
,-,  neuria! and business skills.  deluxe frame.  Comes with new 4.0 AOL Diamond  kale. and kristin and lauren and  I think so  
Tech sk~ls not required.  3 bedroom duplex  New, never useo. still in plastic.  & Norton AnU-Virus.  kelle and keara and jackie  
Great experience, pay and options!  appliances, WID  HP Deskjet 540 & Sidespeakers  I also think its high lime this column  
Contact info@uconnections.com.  1 mile from campus  $235  included.  i love the fishes 'cause they're so  is done  
273-8332  18 Shared CO-ROM  delicious  
219-862-2082  and this page is printed.  
SITTER WANTED  Please call 277-8567  Happy early birthoay Kristin!  
All SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  and we are done  
Tues and Thurs. 12:30 -6:15  AND CLOSE  96 Ford Ranger XL 54k mi., CD  
On Campus. at Univ Vig. Apts.  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  player, man trans. $7000, obo  New Phone Card  I love you, grow up!  and this day Is over  
email: mmmrentals@aot.com  886 mins. $20  
Chris or Shannon: 634-4751  232-2595  Call Tony, 273-5319.  258-4805 or 243-9361  Girls are dumb!  the end  
--------... --~  ·-•------.  



Sabres shock Lightning, 2-1 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO 
Miroslav Satan and Michael Peca scored goals 2:37 apart in the second period, leading the Buffalo Sabres to a 2-1 victory over the Tampa Ray Lightning on Tuesday nighL 
Martin Biron made 21 saves for the Sabres. who snapped a three-game losing streak as well as a three-game home losing skid. 
Darcy Tucker scored fur Tampa Bay, which has lost six straight games and is 1-16-2 since mid-December. Dan Cloutier. who gave up eight goals Monday night at Washington. had 22 saves against the Sabres. 
Satan opened the scoring with 8:01 remaining in the second period. He scooped up a loose puck behind the net and guided it into an empty net for his club-high 24th goal of' the season. Cloutier mis­read the rebound on a shot by Cory Sarich and was caught on the wrong side of the goal. 
Peca then scored his eighth goal of the season, poking home a rebound after Cloutier made the stop on Eric Rasmussen's slapshot. 
Tucker spoiled Biron's shutout bid 1:30 into the third period. Chris Gratton made a nice pass from behind the net, and Tucker scored his 13th goal with a shot through Biron's glove. 
The Sabres remain 11th in 
the Eastern Conference stand­
ings, but moved within four 
points of Boston for eighth 
place and the final plavoff 
seeding. • 
The team also announced 

I 
American Heart v"'­

l 
goaltender Dominik Hasek is slated to practice for a limited time with the team Wednesday morning. It will be his first participation in a team practice since a groin injury Oct. 29. 
Rangers 4, Penguins 3 
Mike Knuble scored twice in the third period and the New York Rangers won their sev­enth game in a row, rallying twice from two-goal deficits to beat the Pittsburgh Penguins. 
The Rangers were 1-17-3 when trailing after two peri­ods until Knuble tied it with his eighth goal at 8:48, then won it by grabbing a loose puck along tho goal line and lifting it over goaltender Tom 13arrasso at 15:37. 
The winning streak is the Rangers' longest since the 1993-94 season and was accomplished largely on the road. as they r.ompleted a four-game road sweep by winning three times in four nights in three cities. 
By winning eight of nine, the Rangers (21-20-7) have moved over .500 for the first time since Oct. 17. 
The Penguins squandered a two-goal lead for the second time in three nights and are 1-2-1 without injured NHL scoring leader Jaromir Jagr, who has an injured stomach muscle and may not play again until after the All-Star break. 
The Rangers, obviously growing weary of the road, looked tired and sluggish for most of two periods before closing to 3-2 on Valeri Kamensky's fifth goal at 8:05 of' the second period. 

Knuble tied it in the third, grabbing a ri>bound of Eric Lacroix's shot as it skittered along the goal line near the right-wing boards and wrist­ing over Barrasso's right shoulder at a difficult angle. 
Knuble's game-winning goal came from the opposite side of the ice and gave the Rangers their first victory in Pittsburgh in exactly three years, or since Jan. 25, 1997. The teams· last three games in Pittsburgh ended in ties. 
The Penguins, 1-6-1 in their last eight games, took an early 2-0 lead for the second game in a row. For the second consecutive game, they quick­ly lost it. 
Former Rangers player Alexei Kovalev dP.flected a shot off goaltender Mike Richter on a Penguins power play at 7:19 of the first period -his 16th goal and third in six games against New York. Richter stopped 20 of 23 shots and faced only three shots in the third period. 
Pittsburgh made it 2-0 at 
13:23 on Tyler Wright's fifth goal. off Matthew Barnaby's backhanded pass from along the boards and into the low slot. But, just as they did in Sunday's 4-4 tie against Philadelphia, the Jagr-less Penguins couldn't kr.ep their momentum. or the lead, as the Hangers' Tim Taylor srored his ninth goal less than a minute later. 
Hans Jonsson restored the Penguins' two-goal lead with Pittsburgh's fourth short­handed goal of the season putting in a rebound of To~ Chorske's missed shot on a breakaway at 4:51 of the sec­ond. 
Rangers, Penguins 

miss Stevens on ice 
Associated Press 

PITI'SBURGH 
There was something -actu­ally, someone -missing from the New York Rangers­Pittsburgh Penguins rivalry on Tuesday, and it bothered the Penguins as much as it did the Rangers. 
Kevin Stevens, a Hangers for­ward and a star on the Penguins' Stanley Cup champi­onship teams in 1991 and 1992, wasn't on the ice. Ho wasn't even with his team. 
Instead, Stevens is awaiting treatment in a substance abuse facility after being arrested early Sunday in suburban St. Louis on felony drug charges. A prostitute who was with Stevens told police that the player purchased $500 worth of crack cocaine before his arrest. 
Stevens was one of the most P<!pular Penguins ever, not just with the fans but with his team­mates, and his personal troubles clearly troubled the players who once played alongside him. 
"It's sad, it really is," Penguins forward Rob Brown said. "You don't want to see anybody get in trouble. I hope it's a wakeup call and he gets the help he needs. Maybe this will turn his life around. He's got a wonderful family." 
Stevens has two children, and his wife is pregnant with the couple's third child. 
Penguins owner Mario Lemieux, who played alongside ~Levens on the Penguins' top !me for nearly five years, issued a statement of support for Stevens, who faces imprison­ment if convicted of a felony. 
"Our thoughts and prayers are with Kevin and his family," Lemieux said. "He knows that his many friends in the f'.ittsburgh Penguins organiza­tion are here to help him in any way possible during this difficult time." 
Several players said they 
couldn't believe it when word of Stevens' arrest filtered through Mellon Arena during the Philadelphia Flyers-Penguins game Sunday night. 
"He was a very good hockey player -and a very good guy," said Penguins captain Jaromir Jagr, whose transition to the NHL as an 18-year-old rookie in 1991. admittedly was eased by playing alongside Lemieux, Stevens and Ron Francis. "It's too bad it happened to him." 
Assistant coach Eddie Johnston. the Penguins general manager when he acquired Stevens from the Los Angeles Kings in 1983, remembered how Stevens often loosened up the locker room with his humor. 
But he also said Stevens was a leader, such as when Stevens promised the Penguins wouldn't lose their Wales Conference championship series against Boston in 1991 even after they fell behind 2-0. 
The Penguins won the next four games. 
Stevens had 54 goals in 1991­92 and 55 in 1992-93, when the Penguins set an NHL record by winning 17 consecutive games. Ile scored 40 or more goals for four consecutive seasons from 1990-94, finishing with 251 goals and 276 assists in 458 Penguins games from 1987-95. 
Stevens' scoring dropped up significantly after he smacked the ice face-first and was knocked unconscious in the Penguins' Game 7 upset loss to the New York Islanders in the 1993 playoffs. 
Still, the Penguins apparently were interested in reacquiring Stevens just prior to Stevens' arrest. 
"I don't know if he was com­ing back, but I know that [gener­al manager) Craig Patrick was talking to the Rangers about some things," Johnston said. 
"l know there was a possibility that he {Stevens] was going to be bought out, so there was a pos­sibility he might be available." 

Wednesday, January 26, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Titans, Rams tighten lips to media 
Players Association 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA Call it the Ray Burhanan Rule. 
The Tennessee Titans and St. Louis H:tms, both Super Bowl neophytes, lef'l lheir dog col­lars at lrome Tuesday. ·Fo,: good measure, they avoided anything that r,ould bB con­strued as an insult and respectfully dediued to guar­an tcw a victory in Sunday's game. 
"We want to be careful in what we sav and what we do," Tennessee· rer,eiver Derrick Mason said Tuesday at the annual phenomenon known as niedia day. "We don't want to say anything about the Hams that might get them motivat­ed." 
A year ago, 13ur,hanan first guarant<!ed a vir,tory, then arrived for interviews wearing a silver-studded dog collar as a way of dramatizing his team's underdog role againsl the Denver Broncos. 
Instead of being motivated, the Falcons melted, losing 34­
19. 
With that in mind, everyone watched their words this year. 
"We're not going to do stuff like that," Hams tight end Roland Williams said. "We're going first class to get the job done. We -respect our fine opµonent, the Tennessee Titans." 
Hey, wait a minute. Who's that guy over there wearing the black bandana and carry­ing a microphone?' Why, it's Mr. Dog Collar himself. 
"These guys look a little tense, a little intense," Buchanan said, a special media badge around his neck instead of something studded. "They ne1;,d to loosen up, have some fun. 
Figuring he was just the guy to dress down this formal affair, Buchanan waded into a group of reporters surrounding Titans safety Blaine Bishop, armed with a microphone from the Rlar:k Entertainment Television nelwork. 
"You should be loose. There should be a smile on your face," Buchanan advised, grin­ning mischievously. 
'Tm pretty loose," Bishop responded, managing a weak smile. 
"Jusl don't guarantee a vie· tory," Bur,hanan quipped. 
"Oh, no," Bishop said, "I would never do that. Not with all the weapons they have." 
Not the kind of answer you'd get from lJeion Sanders or Jim McMahon. Then again, this game just doesn't have the star power of past Super Bowls. 
Many rnportPrs kept glancing at the one-page rosters that wen~ handed out at the Georgia Dome, trying to figure out who they were talking to, 
No. 77. Who's that? 
Long before each team exhausted its one-hour ses­sion, the crowd in front of most podiums went from thick to thin. Soon, reporters were interviewing each other, point­ing microphones toward play­ers-turned-commentators like Joe Theismann. Jim Kelly and Ron Jaworski. 



files against Cards 
Associated Press  
MESA. Ariz.  
The  NFL  Players  
Association flied  a grievance  
against  the  Arizona  

Cardinals, saying the team improperly retained its fran­chise player tag. 
The Players Association claims the Cardinals violated the collective-bargaining agreem!;)nt last year by nego­tiating a deal with franchise player, Rob Moorn, that was designed lo ensure the fran­chise player tag could be used on a different player this year. 
The union says Arizona should lose its right to apply the tag to another player for the four-year duration of· Moore's contract, a move that could keep the Cardinals from designating star defen­sive end Simeon Rice as its franchise player this year. 
At issue in the grievance, filed two weeks ago, is whether Arizona came to a one-year agreement with Moore while a Jong-term deal already was completed or near completion simply to retain the franchise tag. 
By announcing a one-year agreement with Moore 12 days before a multi-year deal was inked, Arizona believed it had retained the right to use its franchise tag on another player for the 2000 season. 
Had the four-year deal been announced originally. the Cardinals would have lost the franchise tag for the duration of that contract. 
"Any situation in which there was a wink, nod or tacit agreement," in order to retain the tag is not allow­abIe, Richard Berthelsen. general counsel of the NFLPA, told the Tribune, a newspaper serving suburban Phoenix. 

TEXTBOOKS ONLINE. SAVE UP TO 40%. 




FREE SHIPPING!' 
FOR $10 OfFtt ENTER CODE #650169 AT PURCHASE CHECKOUT 


• FNa 111if1P1n9 a aHmllecl llmeononln aver $3i. ..SIG offer explrM FellnMly 1i,2000. 
O2000 BIGWORDS, Inc. 



the department of film, television, and theatre 
presents 

notre 

festival 2000 

~ p .far 
(-.1\--.i\e. .(J,e.y \a4J 

friday • saturday • monday 
january 28 • 29 • 31 7:30 & 9:45pm 
snite museum of art $3.00 admission 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS W{"dnesday, January 26, 2000 
... 
NFL 


Judge denies Belichick's request 
Associated Press 
NEWARK. N.J 
Bill Bclichick remained a 
coach without a team Tuesday 
as a federal judge denied his 
request for an order allowing 
him to seek another NfL coach­
ing job. 
In a sternly worded ruling, 
U.S. 
District CourL Judge John 

W. 
Bissell said Belichick created the very probl!'rns he asked the courl Lo solve for him when· he resigned as coach of the New · York Jets one day after being appointed to succeed Bill 


Parcells. 
His lawyers claimed the NFL is 
preventing Belichick from mak­
ing a living the only way he 
knows. and Bissell acknowl­
edged Belichick's distress at not 
having a team to coach. 
"But who does he have to 
blame for that?" Bissell asked. 
"He had a head coaching posi­
tion with the New York Jets. 
highly compensated, with the 
prestige, the title, the exposure, 
the market and the team that 
certainly should have provided 
tu him adequate rewards. It was 
he who turned his back on that," 
Bissell said in denying 
Belichick's request for a tempo­
rary restraining order that 
would have enabled him to seek 
coaching opportunities with 
other NFL teams. notably the 
New England Patriots. "In large 
measure, he put himself in this 
position." 
Belichick. angry with NFL 
commissioner Paul Tagliabue's 
ruling last week that he cannot 
coach another team this year 
without the Jets' permi.ssion, 
sued the league on Monday. His 
lawyer, Jeffrcv Kessler, said the 
league's coaches have been 
ordered to "boycott" Belichick in 
violation of federal antitrust 
laws. 
Tagliabue's ruling applied only to the upcoming 2000 football season, and did not address the other two years remaining on 

WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 

CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 

INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, JANUARY 28th FROM 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer 
"ff this opportunity is lost to coach Helichick, there is no assurance he will ever be given another opportunity to be a head coach in the NFL again." 
Jeffrey Kessler Belichick's lawyer 
the contract Belichick signed with former Jets owner Leon Bess, who died a year ago. 
That $ l .4 million contract called for Belichick tn become coach upon Parcells' retirement, which occurred Jan. 3. ·Belichick stunned the team by resigning the next day, citing the uncer­tainties posed by the impending sale of the team, and potential problems from Pai'cells' continu­ing association with the team in a front-office capacity. 
The judge scheduled a confer­c>nce call with lawvers for the sides Wednesday to·determine if another hearing should be held friday to consider a preliminary injunction enabling Belichick to seek another job in the league. 
The practical difference between a temporary restrain­ing order and a prelim\nary injunction is that an injunction could last longer. But, more sig­nificantly. if Bissell denied a pre­liminary injunction, Belichick's lawyers would -then be free to take the case to a federal appeals court. 
Bissell said an early look at evidence in the case did not bode well for Belichick's antitrust claims. He said Tagliabue's ruling prohibiting Belichick from coaching else­where for the 2000 season was logical and well-reasoned, and said the league's anti-tampering policy was "a legitimate pro­gram to ensure the sanctity of contracts." 
Belichick's lawyers argued that he would suffer irreparable harm it' a restraining order was not granted. Kessler said New England presents an ideal situa­tion for Bf'lichick, who was an assistant there under Parcells. I-le also said there is no guaran­tee that Belichick would receive another head coa~:hing olfar. 

"New England is particularly well-suited for him,'' Kessler told the judge. "It's in a confer­ence he knows. ht• coached there, he's familiar with the players, and ho has a relation­ship with the ownor of the team. If this opportunity is lost to coach 13f11ichick, them is no assura,nce he will ever be given another opportunity to be a head coach in the NFL again." 
Bissell rejected that assertion, noting that former PhiladP.lphia Eagles coach Dick Vermeil, after a long absence from coaching, led St. Louis into the Super !Jowl. 
"We dn have examples of poo­ple who haw~ lell the NFL coach­ing lines and returned to suc­cessful revivals of thc~ir careers: Rill Parcells, Jimmy .Johnson, and Dick Vermcil. Mr. Belichick a year from now will bring to tho table, for any team that may have a vacancy, still an ,~xcellent resume," the judge said. "Ile's acknowledged as a defensive genius. lie will not lose the ben­elit of that ability or that reputa­tion one year from now. lfo is being asked to abide by the con­sequences of his own actions." 
Kessler said he was disap­pointed by the judge's ruling, but declined further comment until after he could discuss it with Belichick, who did not attend the hearing. 
Jets lawyer Glenn Kurtz declined comment other than tn say, "We're happy with the deci­sion." 
He would not say whether the Jets would pay Belichick's salary if he were forced to sit out the 2000 season. 
"That never came up,'' he said. 
NCAA 

NCAA adopts basket review rule 
Associated Pres• 

INDIANAPOLIS 
Officials will be allowed to review Jast-sectind baskets on a replay monitor under a rule change adopted Tuesday by the NCAA. 
_The men's and women's basket.ball rules committees unanimously approved the change after an emergency conference call Monday. The change takes effect Friday once officials are made aware of the change. 
The rare midseason switch was prompted by controver­sies over last-second baskets that altered the outcome of recent games, including Johnny Hemsley's buzzer­beating 3-pointcr Jan. 17 that gave Miami a 67-66 win over Villanova, and the final basket in Texas A&M's 88-86 victory Jan.15 over Texas Tech. 
"Obviously there is no call in the game that is more important, and it's the one call that's remembered longer than any other. If' we have the technology available to help us. we want to make sure we 
Connecting ideas and action 

Get Engaged 
THE CENTURY INSTITUTE 
Summer Program 
June 251h to July 15th at Williams College in the Berkshires 
This three-week fellowship is intended for undergraduates with an interest in civic engagement and public policy. Students, scholars, and prominent policy practitioners together will explore the challenges America faces in building a just and prosperous society. 
The Institute will cover all the expenses including transportation, and students will receive a $1,000 stipend. 
For more information or to apply, visit: 
www.centuryinstitute.org 
or contact Ann Stinson via e-mail at cisp@tcf.org or by phone at (212) 452-7705 
.i p1ojt'< I <;f undPr\\ 11llc.'n b, 
The Century Foundation The Sagner Family Foundation 
I 



lion Dollars! 
use it to get the call right," said Reggie Minton, chairman of the men's basketball rules committee and Air Force coach. 
Previously, officials were barred from using monitors to see if a shot was released before or after the buzzer, which led to the suspension of a Big 12 referee who counted Texas A&M's game-winning basket. 
Officials at the Miami­Villanova game declined to review their decision to count Hemsley's three-pointer. 
The last time....the NCAA made a midseason rule change was in 1990-91. to stiffen the penalty for fighting. 
Villanova coach Steve Lappas welcomed the change Tuesday, but said it should be used to revc rse his team's loss. 
"! think, first of all. they're a day late and a dollar shurt. that's for sure," Lappas told The Associated Press. "Do I think it's better for the game? Yes, I do. But I think it should be grandfathered in, as they say -or don't put it into effect until next year." 

Wednesday, January 26, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 26, 2000 

AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Interested in Doing Research at a



Agassi meets Sampras in semis 
World-class Research Institute? 
Associated Pres< 
MELBOVHNE. Australia 
At a moment when Andre Agassi aud Peto Sampras are playing arguably the best ten­nis of their lives, they will meet a round too soon in the Australian Open semifinals. 
It is the final before the final. a match that could set up the tournament for an anticlimactic finish. 
The women final would be infused with greater drama if Jennifer Capriati and Lindsay Davenport, Olympic champi­ons who took different paths to reach the same juncture, were to meet for the title. Instead. they will face each other in the semifinals. 
Reaching the semis on the other side of the women's draw Wednesday wAre three­time defending champion Martina Hingis and 1998 run­nerup Conchita Martinez. 
Hingis crushed Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario 6-1. 6-1. and Martinez emerged a 6-3, 4-6, 9-7 winner over Elena Likhovtseva, who had previ­ously knocked out Serena Williams. 
Defending men's champion Yevgeny Kafelnikov reached the semis. beating Younes El Aynaoui 6-0, 6-3, 7-6 (4), and will face the winner of Wednesday night's match between No. 4 Nicolas Kiefer and No. 12 Magnus Norman. 
Agassi and Sampras both are anticipating the high volt­age that courses through all their matches, a charge that emanates from their days in the juniors and intensifies year by year as the stakes rise and they edge closer to the end of their careers. 
On this occasion, Agassi will be seeking to become the first player to reach four straight Grand Slam finals since Rod Laver swept them all in 1969. For Sampras, history awaits as he tries to win his 13th major title and surpass Roy Emerson. 
"Once 6 o'clock, 6:30 comes around, you get the nerves going and you feel like, 'This is it,"' Sampras said. "We are always a little nervous in the beginning of the matches, but once we get into it we are fine." 
Yet there is a fear that Sampras senses against Agassi and no one else. 
"He stands on the baseline and is basically looking you in the eye and saying, 'Ace me!' 

,,. And if you don't ace him, he is going to pounce on that sec­ond serve," Sampras said. Similarly, Agassi is undaunt­ed by everyone else, but he knows that Sampras is capa­ble of breaking down his base­line game with relentless net attacks. "With Pete, there's a certain respect that goes along with playing him that makes you focus even more," Agassi said. "With the respect comes a level of anticipation and ener­gy. "It's always going to be close and it's always going to 
Yf 
be a little that decides the dif­ference. He's one of the great­est big-situation, big-match players that have ever played the game. Every time we're playing, it's a stage of the tournament when he's proba­blv the least vulnerable. He's just a difficult player to beat." 
The pity is that the top-seed­ed Agassi and the third-seed­ed Sampras. so obviously per­forming at a higher level than everyone else in the Australian Open, will meet Thursday night, not in the final Sunday. 
"It's much different playing a semi than a final." Sampras said. "It's the way the draw worked out. I would sooner walk out on Thursday with the atmosphere like a final, but we know there is a lot of work ahead. if he beats me or I beat him. On Sunday, you havP. that trophy sitting on the court." 
From Agassi's point of view, too. the trophy is far more important than the rivalry. 
"While I think it's better for the game if we play in the final, just because of the interest that it draws, it doesn't matter a lot," Agassi said. "We both feel like the other is the potential guy in our way." 
By the time Sampras fin­ished his anial performance in the quarterfinals Tuesday night -flying high for 
overheads, launching 135 mph serves, rock­eting backhands down the lines -he left no doubt he is ready to take on Agassi. 
"I felt like I was play­ing one-on-one with Michael Jordan," Chris Woodruff said after absorbing a 7-5, 6-3, 6-3 pounding by Sampras. "He brought the A-game today. He came ready to play from the first ball. I didn't have a chance." 
Sampras had strug­gled to find his rhythm the first week and nearly crashed out in the third round when he lost the first two sets to Wayne Black. But, as he has so often in the past, Sampras raised his game match by match. 
"It took a week and a half, but it definitely came together tonight," Sampras said. "It was my best match so far. As the match went on, my confidence grew and grew." 

Of the 28 times Sampras and Agassi have played against each other in thoir pro careers, Sampras has won 17, including four of six in Grand Slam tournaments. 
Agassi beli1wes his bnst per­formance against Sampras came in the 1995 Australian Open final. which Agassi won in four sets. 
"Quality wise, some ol' the best tennis that we ever had between us happened at the quarterfinals of Paris [indoors] in 1994," Agassi said. "Unfortunately, it wasn't televised back home, but it was incredible tennis, explo­sive and powerful. 
"The match he probably played best against me, you could probably flip a coin between the 1990 final of the 
U.S. Open, or this last Wimbledon. But I would have to say last year at Wimbledon." 
Undergraduate Summer Internship 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity ofNotrc Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science & Technology, will award up to two Summer 2000 internship at ANL in Argonne, IL -with follow-up campus research appointment in the Fall. Stipend, room & board are provided for the JO-week pro­gram. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environ­mentally-related discipline (any.field ofstudy) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improve­ment ofthe environment. Applicants must be US citi::.ens or per­manent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have coriipleted their Junior Year hy May 2000, and he registered to return in the Fall o/2000. 
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental Science & Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
UNDERGRAD SUMMER RESEARCH GRANTS 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Got a research project you want to work on this summer? Perhaps a senior thesis or honors paper? 
The Kellogg Institute for International Studies gives several summer research grants of up to $3,000 each year for research on international topics. 

Come to a meeting on 
Monday, January 31 at 5:00 pm DeBartolo 131 
Or contact Professor Michael Francis (1-5203) Applications for the Kellogg Underdraguate Summer Research Grants are avilable at 
216 Hesburgh Center or 200 Security Building 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday 2000: Who We Are Today 

food from around the world will be served presented by Student Government Tonight • 6:00 p.m. • La Fortune Ballroom 

Wednesday, January 26, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Spring Break Seminars March 11-19, 2000 Experiential/Service Leaming Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR -> Work and learn at one of 10 sites in the Appalachian region -> An ND tradition of service-learning CIVIL RIGHTS & SOCIAL CHANGE SEMINAR -> Travel to key civil rights sites in the South (e.g., the King Center, the Nat. Civil Rights Inst.) -> Learn from leaders who were instrumental in civil rights legislation and development -> A new and unique Seminar opportunity L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR -> Live for a week in community with persons 0 with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR -> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families WASHINGTON SEMINAR Theme: Jubilee Justice -> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -> Service and political awareness opportunities All seminars offer one academic credit tillCtNTER FORApplications Available Now at the CSC SOCIAL CONCERNSA p p I i c a ti o n s D u e: Ja n. 27, 2000  

NFL 




Doctors rebuild Thomas' spine 
A!-isociated Ptes.5 
MIAMI 

Derrick Thomas underwent more than four hours ol' surgery TuP.sday to rnbuild part of his spine and doctors said his spinal cord was not damaged as badly as feared 
Thomas' spinal cord was sevenily bruised, neurosur­geon Barth Green said. 
Doctors originally thoucrht it might have born severnd ~hen Thomas. 33. was thrown from his car Sunday after losing control on an icy highway nf'ar Kansas City. Mo. Thomas broke his spine and neck and wound up semiconsdous with no feeliug in his legs 
Though the N PL star r<1maincd paralyzed from the t'.hcs t down at .Jackson Mt>rnorial Hospital. doctors cxprnssed hopr he'd walk ,tgain. 
"Tlrnre havl' b1:en rascs of pPople with similar injuries whll havP r<'cov1•rnd and there hav•' b11en p<'oplP who haven't rl', ovPred," Green said. 
"Anybody who knows Derrick knows that you don't bet against him. But it's too early to tell right now. We just have to see how he does. " 
Barth Green Thomas' neurosurgeon 
"Anybody who knows Derrick knows that you don't bet against him. Gut it's too early to tell right now. We just have to see how he does." 
The Kansas City Chiefs line­backer's operation included decompressing the spinal cord, stabilizing the spinal col­umn with screws, titanium rods and hooks, and implanti­ng bone grafts from Thomas' hip. 
Doctors said surgery went as planned and that Thomas. who remained sedated Tuesday afternoon, could be transferrnd to a rehabilitation facility in about two weeks. He al.ready ha_s begun working with therapists. 
In the meantime, he will be surrounded with family and friends. His mother, Edith Morgan. and other relatives were at the hospital along with teammate James Hasty and former teammate Neil Smith. 
"Derrick is in very good spir­its. he ·s got his usual sense of humor and he's taking all of this onP. day at a time," Morgan said. "One of the first things he said to me was 'Mom, I'm going to hav,1 t~ have a lot of rehab.' But he's real positive and real opti­mistic about everything. 
"We know that we have a long road ahead of us, but we're going to get through this." 
The hospital is the home of the Miami Project to Cure Paralysis. the world's largest spinal cord injury research center, and its surgeons have operated on several famous athletes, including race car driver Emerson Fittipaldi. 

AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
Capriati sails into semis over Sugiyama 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE. Australia 

If there were any doubts that Jennifer Capri.ati is ready to rhallenge for Grand Slam titles again. she erased them Tuesday as she charged into the Australian Open semifi­nals. 
Not even a strained abdomi­nal muscle, which caused her to take an early injury timeout. slowed Capriati in a thorough G-0, 6-2 thrashing of Ai Sugiyama, who had knocked off No. 4 Mary Pierce. 
Capriati. 23, hadn't reached a Grand Slam semifinals sincf' Wimbledon and tho li.S. in 1991, when she was almost universally viewed as the future star ofwomen's tennis. 
But she foll in the quarterfi­nals of majors six times over lhe next two years. then drift­ed out of the game and didn't return to play the full Grand Slam circuit until last year. when she t'ail.ed to get past the fourth round. 
This time. at a tournament where she had never gone past the quarters. she showed that all her work in coming back, all the practice sessions with coach Harold Solomon, all the counseling she has undergone have paid off ' 
Playing under the closed roof because of light showers, Capriati crushed returns so consistently that Sugiyama managed to win only four points on serve in the first set which lasted just 24 minutes: 
Capriati kept pummeling groundstrokes down the lines to race to a 4-0 lead in the sec­ond set before finally yielding on her own serve. 
After Sugiyama held serve for the first and only time, Capriati closed out the match by holding serve easily and breaking Sugiyama for the sixth time to win in 55 min­utes. 
"I really felt in a groove out there," said Capriati, who hit 
~10ti'>? global leader" in '!he teiecommunk.aton.. al::le and wrele:;~ b..sines,,. 
16 winners to Sugiyama's one. 
Capriati shrugged off the injury and said it won't ham­per her in the semis against t~e winner of Tuesday night's Lmdsay Davenport-Julie Halard-Dccugis match. 
Martina Hingis felt sorry to see Serena Williams depart so soon from the Australian Open, only because she wanted to knock Williams out herself. 
Williams, seeded No. 3. might have stood in Hingis' way in the semifinals but self­dcstructed with unforced errors in a 6-3, 6-3 loss to Russian Elena Likhovtseva. 
Asked whether it was a relief 
" 
for her to have Williams gone fro!11 the tournament, Hingis smiled and shook her head. 
"I would have liked to play her actually, especially from what I've seen of her play," llingis said. "She didn't do that great, so I thought I would have a good chance to beat her right here right now. because it has been my tournament for the last three years. 
"A champion. even if she's not playing well, still gets through matches like that." Hingis said in a jab at Williams. "But she hasn't played much." 
To become the first player to win the Australian Open four tii_nes in a row in the open era, Hmgis must get past Aranxta Sanchez-Vicario in the quar­ters, Likhovtseva or Conchita Martinez in the semis, and, most likely, No. 2 Lindsay Davenport in the finals. 
"You see all these girls out there, especially the younger ones, and they hit the ball so hard," Hingis said. "They run and they work every day. Then you see Conchita and Arantxa still in the draw and they make the quarterfinals again, over and over, because they use what they have. They use their weapons very well and they are very experienced. They know what to do out there. Sometimes that's more impor­tant than anything else." 
... 
~AT&T 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 26, 2000 
NCAA 



Texas uses stingy defense in 82-55 routing of Nebraska 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN 
Lawrence Williams and Chris l\Iihm each scored 14 points and No. 17 Texas held Nebraska to five points over the last 11 minutes of the first half in an 82-55 victory Tuesday night. 
Williams was 4-of-5 from three-point range for Texas (13-5, 5-1). Steffon Bradford led Nebraska {9-10, 2-4) with 13 points. 
Long on talenl under the basket. Williams and the Longhorns found their shoot­ing touch from the perimeter early. Texas hit five of its first six 3-point attempts. 
The Longhorns also forced 14 Nebraska turnovers in the first half which Texas convert­ed into 20 points. Texas forced 28 Nebraska turnovers for the game as Williams also had four steals. 
Texas looked like it could be in for a long night when Nebraska center Kimani Ffriend caught Mihm Oat-foot­ed with a lighting quick spin move and layup for the game's first points. 
Ffriend also blocked Mihm's first shot attempt before the Longhorns' ?-foot center made a layup and scored seven of his team's first 11 points. 
The game was tied 14-14 at 
12:28 of the first half when Texas caught fire from 3-point range. Chris :vtcColpin, Lawrence Williams and Darren Kelly each hit 3-point­ers in a 13-4 run that put Texas ahead 31-18. 
After a timeout, Ivan Wagner hit an off-balance 3 from the top of the circle and Gabe Muoneke jammed two dunks as Texas reelfld off a 14-5 run to dose the half with a 45-23 lead. Muoneke also grabbed 14 rebounds. 
The Longhorns kept up the pace in the second half as Wagner and Williams hit three straight three-pointers to stretch the lead to 60-32. Texas held its largest lead at 71-36 with 8:33 to play. 
The loss left Cornhuskers coach Danny Nee one victory shy of 253 wins at Nebraska. the school record held by Joe 
Cipriano (1965-801. 
No. 25 St. Johns 61, Rutgers 57 
Erick Barkley scored 18 points, including the final five of the game for St. John's, and the 25th-ranked Red Storm snapped a two-game losing streak with a victory over. 
Lavor Postell added 16 points and nine rebounds for St. John's 113-4, 5-1 ). His frno throw with 3:19 to play gave the Red Storm the lead for good at 56-55 and his block of' a dri,e by Joel Salvi with 20 seconds to play and St. John·s leading 60-57 scaled the victo­ry at Madison Square Garden. 
After Postell's free throw, Barklcy hit a foul line jumper with 2:45 to play and three seronds left on the shot clock. Salvi scored on a rebound with 
1:19 left to bring the Scarlet Knights (1 l-7. 3-3) within 58­57. 
Barkley, who was just 7-for­20 from the field, then hit a driving jumper with 28 sec­onds to pl.ay and the shot clock again in single digits. Postell made his big defensive play eight seconds later .and Barklev closed it out with a free th~ow with 7.3 seconds to play. 
St. John's overcame a horri­ble shooting start -the Red Storm missed 13 of their first 14 shots -by closing the first half with a 10-1 run to get within 29-26 after trailing by as many as 12 points. 
Neither team led by more than five points in the second half. 
Chudnev Grav added 11 points fo~ St. J~lrn's, which finished 25-for-63 from the field (39.7 percent). 
The Red Storm were 1-for­11 from three-point range with Barkley missing all five of his attempts. 
Dahntay Jones led Rutgers with 18 points and 10 rebounds. It was his basket that tied the game 55-55 with 
4:25 left. Jeff Greer had 11 points. all but two coming on 3-pointers. 
St. John's had lost to Seton Hall and Ohio State last week after beating then-No. 5 Connecticut on its home court. 

The victory was the sixth straight over llutgers for St. John's, a streak that dates to Jan. 29, 1997. 
Indiana 85, Michigan 50 
Indiana's defense never looked better. Michigan's offense never looked worse. 
Kirk Haston had 19 points and l·l rebounds Tuesday night, including eight points during a 25-2 first-half run that carried Indiana to an 85­50 victory over the struggling Wolverines. 
Michigan 112-5, 3-3) came in as the best-shooting l<'am in the conference, but with Indiana coach Bob Knight shouting "Defense!'' from ihe sideline, the Hoosiers (15-3, 5­
2) applied constant pressure that held the Wolverines to a season-low 25 per­cent from the f'ield. 
Indiana wasn't much better at the start, but after the first f'ew min­utes the Hoosiers began hitting their shots while the Wolverines never recovered. 
After a three-point play by LaVell Blanchard, who finished with 19 points and 13 rebounds, the Wolverines managed .iust one field goal over the next nine minutes. 
The Hoosiers reeled off 14 straight points, including six by A.J. Guyton and four by Haston. After a basket by Michigan's Peter Vignier. Indiana ran off another 11 straight points for a 39-11 lead. 
The Wolverines had made just 3-of-22 shots at that point. and they 
missed their next nine shots before another three-point play by Blanchard with 2:42 left in the half. 
Indiana took a 45-18 lead at halftime and, playing reserves much of the second half', built the margin to 38 points. Guyton finished with 18 points and freshman Jeffrey Newton had 10 points. nine rebounds and four blocked shots. 
Michigan. which has won only two games on the road, started hitting some shots in the second half, but by that time, it didn't matter. 
Two three-point baskets by Guyton and a fast-brnak dunk by Lynn Washington pushed the Indiana lead to 57-23. The Hoosiers matched their 34­point margin 20 seconds later when Guyton hit two free throws on a technical against a frustrated Wolverines coach Brian Ellerbe, who claimed one of his players had been fouled. 
Knight yanked most of his starters midway through the second half, and Indiana took its biggest lead at 76-38 on a three-point basket by Luke Jimenez with 5:45 to go. 
The only other Michigan player in double figures besides Blanchard was Jamal Crawford with 12 points. 
The Wolverines' previous low shooting percentage this season was 38 percent at Boston College last month. The previous low for an Indiana opponent was 30 percent by Canisius. 
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK 
Where do you see yourself this summer? Choose A or B 
A. Sharing a trail with a mountain B. Commuting in bumper to goat as you hike through snow bumper trafic? capped glacier peaks? 
A. Meeting your new best friend 8. Spending the summer under the "Big Sky" of Montana? with the same old crowd? 
A. Watching millions of stars & B. Spending hot & humid the northern !ights on a clear, summer nights next to cool, August night? an air conditioner? 
If you answered "A" to any of the above, choose a summer in the "Last Best Place". St. Mary Lodge & Resort (Glacier Park's finest) 
We will be interviewing on campus February 2nd for our 2000 summer season. Call (800) 368-3689 today to schedule an interview. 

Can you make this team? 



ANSWER :-d';, 
THECALL W 
Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Wednesday, January 26, 2000 The Obseroer . SPORTS page 23 
NBA 

Cavaliers snap five-game losing streak in overtime win 
Associated Press 
CLEVEIAND 

Brevin Knight found his range just in time and Bob Sura sr.on'd a career-high :n points as the Cl,W(!land Cavaliers snapped a fivr.-game losing strnak Tuesday night with a 11 (i-1 Oi overtime win against thr. Det.roi1 Pistons. 
Knight, who missrd his first four lirl<l-goal attempts, scored 12 points in the l'nurth quarter and four more in overtime on 7­ol'-8 shooting as the Cavs rallied after hlowing a I 9apoint lr.ad. 
ClPvnland. playing iLs first home game following a disas­trous 1-6, West Coast road trip, outscored the Pistons 20-11 in overtime. 
Jerry Stackhouse. forced to carry the scoring load with star Grant l-lill injurPd. scored a sr.a· son-high 38 points for the Pistons. Hill missed his second straight game with a bruised right hip despite getting all-day treatments. 
Lamond Murray bad 19 points -nine in overtime -and Shawn Kemp had 15 points and 10 rebounds for the Cavs, who were welcomed home by just 



• 

D1SCOOJr F1nancal Services, a oosmess unit of Morgan Stanley Dean Willer & Co.• operates all Discover Brands willl more lhan 47 milloo cartlmembers and Iha Discover°/Novus Network'. The Network is lhe largest independenl crodrt card ne\WO!I\ in \ho 'Jnhoc! States wilh more than 3 n-;\lion me,chant and c.,sh access \ocations. We a,e currenlly soelling individuab with experience in any of Iha follawng areas: 
COBOL ¦ C(CS • VSAM ¦ D112 • JCL • C • c.. ¦ JAVA • ORACLE ¦ UNIJI • ASSEMBLER 
• WINDOWS UINT • OOP • PIJt • DATA WAREHOUSING • OSIZ • CUENT/SERVER 
Please join us at the: 

SUMMER & INTERNSHIP JOB FAIR Thursday• .lanuary Z7th 
1 Z:00NOON-4:00PM 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SPORTS HERITAGE HALL 
JOYCE CENTER CONCOURSE-ZND FLR 
We otter awide array of worl<place amen~ies including excellent salaries and benefits, 401K, profrt sharing, lurtioc reimbursement limess center and a casual dress environment. tt unable lo anend, please send your scanable resume to: 
Discover Financial Services, Inc. Human Resources, IT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road • Riverwoods, IL 60015 Fax: f847J 405-1388 
Visit our Web Site at: • -. 
www.di.scoverfinandal.com 
EOEM/FION 
Are you planning on serving food at any ofyour JPW or club activities? 
Did you know that you must have at least I person in your group who has received food service certification in order to hold the event? 
Have you been trained in safe food handling procedures since Fall 1998? Ifnot, here's your chancer 
10,930 fans, the smallest crowd in Gund Arnna history. Kemp played just 23 minutes because of foul trouble. 
Lindsey Hunter added 17 points and Terry Mills 14 and 12 rr.bounds for the Pistons, who lost their fifth straight. 
With the scored tied 96-all, Stackhouse. who scored 24 point.., in the second half, missed a fadeaway jumper from the left corner at the regulation buzzpr. 
Sura scored to open the exlra session and Knight's defonsfl was responsible for Cleveland's next two baskets. He tipped away a OetroH pass before hit­ting a short jumper to make it l 00-96. and then made a steal that Murray followed by drain­ing a 3-pointcr to put the Cavs up by seven. 
After trailing by 14 to start the second half. the Pistons quickly pulled within eight after Mills hit two three-pointers in the first four minutes. And when the Cavs failed to get out to cover him again. the 6-fout-10 Mills hit another trey to bring Detroit within 61-55. 
Jud Buechler's three cut Cleveland's lead to 67-63, and with Kemp on the bench with four fouls. the Pistons closed the quarter with a 13-1 run to open a 73-68 lead after three. 
Even Hill, dressed in street clothes and sitting at the end of Detroit's bench. was impressed, gingerly walking out onto .the court to greeted his teammates when they came off the floor. 
Heat 115, Celtics 89 
The Miami Heat ran off 16 
consecutive points in the second 
period for a 25-point lead and 
coasted past the Boston Celtics. 
Voshon Lenard 
scored 21 points 
and Alonzo 
Mourning 20 for 
the Heat, who shot 
55 percent, includ­
·ng 9-of-13 on 
hree-pointers. 
iami's starters 
played only half 
the game and took 
the fourth quarter 
off. 
The Celtics 
missed 13 consec-
Thursday, Jan. 27 



4:00 PM 
LaFortune Student Center Montgomery Theater 
Training begins at 4:00 pm sharp! Latecomers may not be admitted. 


FOOD WILL BE SERVED! 
Food Service Certification training is coordinated by the Student Activities Office, Catering By Design, and Risk Management and Safety. 

utive shots early in the second quarter, which allowed the Heat to score 16 points in a row, their largest run of the season, for a 47-22 lead. 
The margin was 59-39 at half­time, and Boston was never closer than 18 points after that. 
Miami won without starting gnard Dan Majerle. who went on the injured list before the game. lle's expected to be side­lined six weeks with a stress fracture in his left lr.g. 
Boston played without starting forward Paul Pierce, who strained his left hamstring Saturday against Charlottr.. 
Pacers 93, Phoenix 87 
A return home was just what the Indiana Pacers ner.ded. 
After losing three cunsecutive mad games, the Pacers defeated for their 14th straight victory in Conseco Fieldhouse. 
Heggie Miller led Indiana with 21 points, including four free throws in the final 24 seconds that helped Indiana hold off the Suns after they had reduced an 18-point deficit to one. 
Clifford Robinson led the Suns with 24 points and Jason Kidd had 22. 
Phoenix trailed 83-68 after 
Miller, who made all 10 of his 
free throw attempts, was fouled 
attempting a three-pointer and 
hit all three shots with 7:35 to 
play. But Indiana missed its next 
seven shots while the Suns ral­
lied. 
Consecutive three-pointers by 
Rodney Rogers ignited an 11­
point run by Phoenix. Sam 
Perkins responded with a 3­
pointer to give Indiana an 86-79 
lead. 
Two free throws by Jalen 
Rose, who had 15 points, put 
Indiana ahead 88-79 with 3:55 
remaining. Phoenix then surged 
again on a layup and jumper by 
Penny Hardaway and four free 
throws by Kidd. 
Dale Davis made one of two 
free throws for Indiana, which 
sho't only 29 percent from the 
field in the fourth quarter, to 
give Indiana an 89-87 edge with 
39.4 seconds remaining. 
After Tom Gugliotta threw up an airball for Phoenix, Miller was fouled with 23,7 seconds left and his free throws put Indiana ahead 91-87. He then hit two more free throws after Kidd missed an off-balance 3· point attempt. 
Kings 110, Hornets 99 
Nick Anderson scored a sea· son-high 29 points and the Sacramento Kings kicked off their longest road trip in 13 years with a victory over the Charlotte Hornets. 
Chris Webber had 30 points and Sacramento shot 53 percent in its first victory in Charlotte in nearly 10 years. 
The Kings, starting an eight­game Eastern swing, shot 9-of­17 from three-point range, including their first three in the fourth quarter. Anderson led the way with a 3-for-3 showing from beyond the arc, helping Sacramento end the Hornets' five-game home winning streak and four-game overall winning streak. 
Charlotte could not overcome an off night by top scorer Eddie Jones, who missed 11 of' his first 13 field-goal attempts and wound up with 11 points on 5­for-18 shooting.. 
The Kings hit three-pointers on back-to-back possessions in the fourth, with a 26-footer from Anderson making it 100-89 with 
5:36 remaining. 
Charlotte got no closer than eight, and Sacramento stretched it as high as 12 in the closing minutes. 
Hawks 96, Bulls 89 
Isaiah Rider scored 28 points 
and Dikembe Mutombo had 14 
points and 23 rebounds to lead 
the Atlanta Hawks past the 
Chicago Bulls. 
In a game between the two worst teams in the Central Division, the Hawks put together their first two-game winning streak since Dec. 8. 
Mutombo's rebound total, his 
best since pulling down 29 
against Minnesota on Dec. 14. 
helped Atlanta to a 52-42 
advantage on the boards. 
Elton Brand, who fouled out 
with 1:01 remaining, led the 
Bulls with 22 points and 10 
rebounds. Ron Artest had 1';" 
points and four steals. 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 26, 2000 
Irish fans should take 

cue from Wolverines 
The semester has just started, but I already have some confessions to make. 
First of' all. like I said once last vear, I don't know a whoie lot about hockev. Secondly. despite being a so-callPd sports­writer. before last Pridav. I 
had . never actuallv been tf; a Notre Dame hockey game. However. over break, I had the chance to attend two Michigan hockey games with a friend who prides himself on being a Wolverine. The second game was on \firhigan's home ice a.t Yost Ice Arena. Mv third cont'flssion? Well, whenever I go to Yost, although I have a general aversion to cheering for any sports team donning the maize and blue, I become a Michigan fan for three peri­ods. How, you ask, could some­one whc'ise dislike of Michigan football pumps through his blue and gold blood and who has little more than a working knowl­edge of hockey attend and enthusiastically cheer for the enemy for three hours? Confession No. 4: It's real­ly fun to mess with the other team, especially their goalie. Now I don't mean just standing there by yourself, yelling: "Hey Burleigh. Your mom wears combat boots!" But when the whole crowd starts to mess with the other team, well, that's just beau­tiful. Example: Michigan just scored its third goal of the game. Everyone holds up three fingers and waits for the announcer to say who scored the goal and who collected the assists. Then.someone in the band yells: "Ready!" like a drill sergeant, and everyone counts out: "One! Two1 Three!" Then, while twirling their index fingers yell, "We want moooooore goals!" And finally, the conclu­sion, by far the best part, the whole house accusingly points at the goalie, first 
screaming "Sieve!" about seven times, and then, "It's all your fault!" four more 
timi>s. 
A mid-game variant of this cheer occurs when a face lost somewhere in the crowd bellows out the goalie's name to which everyone immediately responds, "Sieve!" It goes on as long as the bellower's voice holds out. 
The reason I bring all this good-natured yelling up has to do with the absence of this environment at the Notre Dame's game versus Western Michigan on the Jan. 21. 
Sure, there were about 20 or 25 students who heckled and cheered in this way, and I give them credit for doing so. However, when there is only a handful of people getting into the act, vou can't call that a raucous atmosphere. 

Twenty people yelling "Sieve!" doesn't quite have the effect of a couple thou­sand. 
The person who heard most of the heckling was not the Broncos' goalie but the usher who told the small group to·clean up their cheering act. 
Please, they haven't seen an entire crowd take up this mission to annoy and bother tho opposing squad. They've only seen a few guys who like to think of themselves as "freedom fighters" but whose revolution is often met by the deafening silnnce of the cavernous JACC, 
We can't let this be the case. The student section on the other side of the maze of' concourses at thr Joyce is coming back to life for bas­ketball games, so why not make the rink just as impos­ing? 
J'm not saying copy Michigan's cheers. The guys cheering now have a good base of' heckles. Although the lengthy tirades shouted.· at the goalie by one fan don't really do much except wear one person's voice out. 
If everyone, or most everyone. could join in and direct those guilty of penal­ties, "Tu the box!" or remind the goalie, "It's all your fault!" (except, of course, when he makes 52 saves, as the Western goalie did) the JACC would be transformed into a true col­lege hockey venue. 
After that, people will look at the Joyce Center a little differently. 
Hockey seniors across the country will tell the incom­ing freshmen: "Going to South Bend? Man, that's tough." 
And then, stating the obvi­ous, a new sign will be hung outside the JACC bearing this simple message: "When the JACC starts a-roekin'. don't come a-knockin'." 
Or we could just forget that last part and leave it to become a really tough place to skate three periods. 
That works for me. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Berticelli 
continued from page 28 
pushed his players to do the same. 
"l had been injured and out for a while and then I came back and got another minor injury," said Hvan Cox, a senior Irish forward. "I shied away from playing because I was afraid of getting injured again and he came up to me and said, 'You need to get back on track and get over that injury mentality.' He was very direct with the team -if he thought you should be doing something or needed to improve on something, he would come right out and tell vou. lie ww, that kind of roach" · In a career that spanned three decades, Berticclli earned enough prof<'ssional accolades to fill a room. 
He was awarded consecutive coach-of-the-year honors from 1977 to l 984, then again in 1989 and l 993 in the conferences in which he coached. 
Berticelli's players respected him both on and off thr. fip,Jd. They paint a picture of a man who was dedicated not only to his passion f'or coaching but also his concern !'or others. 
"l·le'd go to bat l'or anybody," said Maio. "Ile was evervbody's friend on lhc team and he would 

Photo courtesy of Sports Information Mike Berticelli, pictured here coaching a youth soccer camp, made an impact on many lives at Notre Dame. 







Please Recycle The Observer 
support his players no 
what their history ... lie was always there when vou needed to talk. lie was ~ rnach and a friend." 
His dedication to his players' well being was so apparent that his players viewed him as more than simply a coach. 
"He was very demand­ing, but he always had vour back," said Cox. "He Zvould support you no mat­ter what. You could call him in the middle of the night and he would be there for you -he was just that type of father fig­ure." 
In October, after garner­ing his 100th win as Irish head coach, Berticelli told about his strong love for Notre Dame. 
"One of the quotes Lou Iloltz used to say is that "No matter what back­ground you come from or what you think is impor­tant, Notre Dame will not become you, you will become Notre Dame,"' said Berticelli. "For me, that reflects all the beliefs and traditions of this place. Everyone here has their priorities in the right place." 
Luckily fur Notre Dame, Berticelli's heart was there, too. 


PICK ONE OR MORE 

Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course 
FllEt: 6 lneh S11h \\"ifh P11rt•l1a*• 
Register in Advance at RecSports 

Of Mc~dium 01· Laarge ltrink! $5.00 Charge Wear Layered Clothing and Worm Gloves 

=PEPSI Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge to be paid at the Golf Course on the day of the clinic. 
Coupon Required. RegularSubs Only (No DblMeat or Extra Cheese). One FreeSub PerCustomer. Not GoodWith OtherOffers.
R~~ 

Good Only@ 1706South BendAve,Jan 27th, 2000, 5-8 PM. 
matter-----------------------.. 

Coupon& 

Purchase Of Medium Or Large Drink 


Required! WHEN? 3 HOURS ONLY! 
Thursday, Jan 27th from 5 -8 PM 
WHERE? ONE PLACE ONLY! 
SUBWAY-1706 South Bend Ave (Near ND-Next To Welsh Service Ctr) 
Order Your Super Bowl Party Sub Now! 
Wednesday, January 26, 2000 
Tbe Observer . SPORTS page 25 

" Saint Mary's College e,




rl \~ 
2000-2001 Student Body President & Vice. President Elections Time Line 
MEET THE CANDIDATES 
Jbursday, January 27, 4000 6pm in Haggar Parlor 


ELECTIONS 
Monday,Januru:y,31,2000 7-9am, 12-2pm, 5-7pm (in the Dining Hall for on campus students) l lam-3pm (in the Off Campus Lounge for off campus students) 
RUN-OFF ELECTIONS (ifnecessary) Wednesday, February 2, 2000 7-9am, 12-2pm, 5-7pm (in the Dining Hall for on campus students) l lam-3pm (in the Off Campus Lounge for off campus students) 
*sponsored by B.0.G. 


R~~ 
LRTE HIGHT 




LYMPIC 
2 D
. . 


Co-REC VOLLEYBALL HALF COURT 3 ON 3 BASKETBALL (M & W) NERF FOOTBALL Co-REC INNERTUBE WATER POLO WtFFLE BALL Co-REC SOCCER TARGET GOLF 8ROOME3ALL ( M & W) KICKBALL RAC~UETBALL SINGLES (M & W) 
KAYAKING 
MONSTER D . DGEBALL TABLE TENNIS LNO OBSTACLE COURSE 
THE DEADLINE F"OR ENTERING A TEAM IS MONDAY, .JANUARY 3 1. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2000 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM 
JOYCE CENTER • 631 -61 00 
ALL LNO MEDALS WERE D . NATE:D BY THE NOTRE 0AME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 

Kessler 
continued from page 28 
we're going to put things 
together and we'll be the team 
to beat." 
That day better come soon. With just 10 games remaining on the regular season schedule, the Irish need to make a move if they hope to earn a NCAA bid. 
Saturday's game with St. John's could be the turning point of the season. A win over the Red Storm would get the Irish in the right frame of mind as the season winds down toward rematches against Syracuse, Connecticut and Miami. 
But the Irish obviously didn't have that frame of mind last night. as two Irish players were benched for not being mentally prepared. 
''Everyone has a scouting report and they're supposed to know the players or group of players they could possibly guard," head coach Matt Doherty said. "David [(;raves] and Harold [Swanagan) weren't as prepared as I would have liked them. So I got on them and told them starting is a reward. After that I said this was behind us and I thought Jere and Ivan should start." 
In addition to not being pre­pared, last night's 63-49 loss to the Hurricanes could be an indication that the Irish are going to have a difficult stretch ahead of them. 
"During the key moments we tried to turn things around and hope momentum would swing our wav," Dillon said. "It's tough. it's the Big East and it's hard for us. but were going to strike back and learn from it and get ready to play Saturday. 
"Our defensive effort wasn't bad," Dillon continued, "We just couldn't put the ball in the bas­ket. That was the bottom line." 
According to Doherty, the loss had nothing to do with a lack of effort. 
"I think at Rutgers they took the fight out of us. Tonight I think our kids competed," Doherty said. "We didn't exe­cute our plays as well as we should have, but that's some­thing we'll work on." 
lt has been Notre Dame's 
.... 
"play hard" attitude that has 
bred confidence and made this 
season a successful one. On the 
down side. it has also been a 
source of encouragement for 
opposing teams. 
''I think our players' effort tonight was a result of the respect our players have for the Notre Dame basketball pro­gram," Miami head coach Leonard Hamilton said. "The coach has done a tremendous job with that team. They play within themselves. They have one of the top four or five play­ers in the country. They are a tremendous shooting team and our youngsters went in to the game with a clear understand­ing that if we were not on our defensive game tonight we could very well have our hat handed to us." 
Nevertheless, Doherty was apologetic about his team's per­formance. 
"I want to apologize to the .. fans and the students. I appre­ciate them being there. That means a lot to me and the guys. We.want nothing more than to give them reason to get them really excited and we didn't do that. It's not that we didn't try. I promise you that." · 
And the Irish will be sure to give it the good ol' college try when nationally ranked St. John's storms into town. 
"I_ think we really have to watch the film and study it and see what we can do in the framework of our personality and what we have," Doherty said. 'Tm not going to scrap our offense or what we've been doing because it's been suc­cessful here and it's been suc­cessful at Kansas. We just have to make sure we execute it." 
Dillon, however, still remains confident and knows the Irish will be ready to play Saturday. The only question for him is whether St. John's will be ready for Notre Dame. 
''I've been here four years now and I was talking to people before the game and they're asking, 'Are you going to be ready for these guys,"' Dillon said. "I don't look at it like that anymore. Those teams should be ready for us." 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

-
... 

Irish prepare to weather Red Storm in Big East match up 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
By KERRY SMITH Assistam Spom Fditor 
While everyone wants to win. there is ,always an advantnge to being the underdog. If you're not at the top. then you have nothing to lose. 
That's not the f'.ase with the Irish this season, however. as they sit atop the Big East rank­ings with an unblemished confer­ence record and bold fast to a fifth-place national ranking. Riding an 11-game winning streak, the Irish have little room for improvement and everything to lose. 
But as pressure seemingly mounts for the Irish as they enter 

.. a pivotal final stretch of the regu­lar season. the squad isn't ner­vous. "Most people say that with being ranked fifth in the nation comes more pressure, but we don't put emphasis on that. We don't feel it that much," said Irish center Ruth Riley. "We've just been concentrating on playing well during each game." In fact, the only pressure the Irish have felt most of the season is the pressure that they've put on their opponents. Despite a rocky 4-2 start. the Irish have doled out decisive defeats to their opponents since their winning streak began in December. And the onlv two loss­es that scar the sqa~d's 15-2 record were on the road to Illinois · and Purdue -two top 20 teams. Downing their opponents by double digits in all but one of their wins. the Irish have seen stellar performances by more · players than just their starters. "We're a deep team. That's one of our advantages," said Riley. "We change the starting line up around quite a bit." Riley has been a necessary 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 2000 
DO S'OMET:H!NG 

DIFFERENT 

-
... 

De,aidli:n.,es for su.miim1er 
cr~dit ,earning pxo,g:ram 1 
~ ACCION -FEBRUARY 17, 2000
V 
WATCH FOR INFORMATION MEETING TIME COMING SOON! 
LEADERSHIP INTERNS-FEBRUARY 21, 2000 
• AFRICAN AMERICAN 
~ 
• HISPANIC INFORMATION MEETING: 
WHERE: CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS (COFFEE HOUSE) WHEN: MONDAY, JANUARY 31 TIME: 7:30 PM -8 PM 
INTERNATIONAL SUMMER SERVICE PROGRAM 
(DEADUNE PAST) 
~ SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS -JANUARY 28, 2000 
INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS FOR ALL PROGRAMS ARE AVAILABLE 
-
SOCJ"L AND DUE AT THE 
~ 
CENTER FOR 5ooAL CONCERNS 

component of the squad's winning style. The junior All-American candidate leads the Irish a.-cross the board. averaging more than 15 points and seven rebounds a game. 
Veteran guard Nicle Ivey has also been a solid player all sea­son. Even though she is the third­leading scorer for the Irish. she leads the team in assists, proving herself as a playmaker. 
With a firm foundation for the team to be built around Hiley and Ivey, the ri>st of the Irish players have stepped up when necessary to get the job done. 
"Each game a different player stops up," said Riley. "Everyone has the ability and each time it's someone now." 
Freshman starter Alicia Ratay has had her share of impressive outings. She leads the team in scoring and comes up with key baskets at several points through­out the season. Meanwhile, senior guard Danielle Green had her best game of the season as she turned on the heat to lead the Irish in their win over Miami 
(Fla.) Saturday. 
Riley also credits the team's chemistry for their success so far this season. 
"This year we're a lot clos­r,r as a team," said Riley. " I think that has a lot to do with experienced players coming back. During my freshman year, we were a relatively young team. This season we've got more experience and play together well." 
Given the squad's style of play, which calfs /'or a big presence in the paint backed by more than capable shoot­ing from the perimeter, any player on the court can earn her time in the spotlight. 
The Irish will have their next opportunity to shine tonight as they make their 

Univ. Laun ry anmng at the Campus Shoppes 1813 South Bend Ave. 
Monda Dollar Day Tanning Tuesda Senior Day Free Drying For Senior Citizens Wednesda 
Free Hot Dogs Thursda Students Free drying w/College ID 

.45¢ Drop OffAll Month 
final stop on a three-game away stint in New York to take on the Red Storm of St. John's. . The Irish won't be doing any­thing different than what has worked for them all season long when they step on thr, court. 
"We realty don't change our game plan a lot from game to game," said Riley. "We basically use the same strategy for each game. We don't change according to who we're playing." 
St. .John's, with a 6-J 1 record has struggled to put together a successful program all season. With one of the worst conference records at 1-6. next to Seton Hall and West Virginia, the Red Storm has won only one of its last nine games. 
A St. John win over Notre Dame wuld be a turning point for the Hed Storm, as the squad has been unable to pull off a win over a ranked team yet this season. 
The Irish hold the edge over the Red Storm ii' history plays a role. Notre Dame has never lost to St. .John's in the schools' six-game history. 
Till Feb. 29th 

"Encuentro Chicago" Retreat 
"An overnight immersion in Chicago's Latino neighborhood ofPilsen" 
February 19-20, 2000 
Experience: The Resurrection Project The Mexican Fine Arts Museum Cristo Rey High School St. Pius V Parish 
Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns or Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library. Applications can be handed in at the Center for Social Concerns. Application deadline is February 2. 

CENTER FOA 

SOCIAL 0,t0PUS 
CONCERNS MINISTRY 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 26, 2000 
BOUTIQUE 
EXCHANGE 
f;a.clu,u{).e ec;.n-u~eni $ kr,.p, :/)e,u~eli /!,!z,rY1,di fJ. V;,niay,e f,,1/, J/1en fJ. Wu-m.en 
UP TO 5O0/o OFF SELECTED ITEMS 
M-F 10 am to 8 pm Saturday IO am to 6 pm Sunday 12 pm to 4 pm 2324 Miracle Lane Town and Country Shopping Center 257-070 I 
-

Wednesday, January 26, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WOW, ALL 1,Jf.. !-\AVE 10 00 '.> GcoD/ 1-\0\(/ 1S 'tovl:)~l<s Ou'T Wrl<P.i ''YCNR ~ \(OU AR~ 6011st, io S,,.'<. l.VR_\Jl{..ff)V~ 
1-J61j <,Af,\E 
Fox TROT 

,HE,KMATE. CMECICMATE. CHECKMATE. CHECKMATE. CHECKMATE. 
www.fQ)(tfot com 
CHECICMATE. CHEckMATE. CHECKMAn. CHECICMATE. CHECKMATE. 
ATE. CHECKMATE. CHECICM MATE. CHECKMATE. CHEC TE. CHECICMAT£. CHECl<M ECl<MATE. CHECKMATE. 
~-...\If'.£ 

BILL AMEND 
COMPUTERS ARE THAT 

ETTIN<?, ,A. i AD CONCLuDES 
FAST,1F ooR NEXT 
U ASK ME. 
I 

.... 
Closet Britney Spears fan #470J. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2000 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Wayne Gretzky, Anita Baker, Paul Newman, Bob Uecker, Eddie Van Halen, Scott (:,!enn, Angela Davis, Jules Peiffer, Gene Siske! 
Happy Birthday: Be prepared to rid yourself of people and things that are no longer to your benefit. Ad­vancement should be your main con­cern. Pick up whatever knowledge is req_uired to reach your goals. The higher tech you become, the better you will do in the future. Your num­bers: 3, 8, 16, 21, 35, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Diffi­culties with your mate will crop up if you have been neglectful. Financial frustrations will result if you haven't been able to budget your needs. You may need to get a part-time job. 
000 

TAURUS (April 20,May 20): Problems with co-workers may hold you back. Try not to get into heated discussions with them. Don't become involved in the personal problems of others, and cfon't take on their responsibilities. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Money-making opportunities will be present if you get involved in real estate. New friendships will be last­ing. Join groups of interest in order to expand your circle of friends, 
00000 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you put family first, you may be taken advantage of. Don't allow your mate to shirk responsibilities. You will overindulge if you are emotion­ally upset. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stabiliza­tion in your relationship can be expected if you have treated your mate properly. Look into joint business ventures. Put things in writing. You can do well if you work 
EUGENIA LAST 

hard.0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your extremely creative ideas can make you extra cash. Put your thoughts into action and don't hesitate to sum­mon your family if you need a help­ing hand. 000 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-0ct. 22): Don't take things too seriously. You will have a tendency to be excessively, yet unnecessarily, sensitive. Decep­tion is apparent; however, it could &e your or your partner who is being deceptive. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You must take better care of yourself. A combination of wony and poor diet will result in minor ailments or stom­ach problems. Arguments will evolve if you are too pushy. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will get encouragement from the connections you make, but don't expect them to physically help you accomplish your goals. Roll up your sleeves and get busy. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 

You have individuals around you who are not the best influence. Don't be a chameleon. Lending belongings or money to others will result in loss­es. Self-deception is apparent. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 

Travel or just getting away from the everyday routine will do you a world of good. You need to become involved in other things that will help take your mind off pressing issues. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take care of your personal papers and overdue accounts. Don't get 
-
involved in get-rich-quick schemes. You can borrow money, but be sure you can live with the additional rost. 
000 
Birthday Baby: You are a nurturer. You care deeply about the well-being of others and will always lend a helping hand throughout life. You will be rewarded for your kindness and will set an example for others. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) C2000 Univenal PreisSyndicale 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Watch's innards 6 Parts of Morse 
code 10 Wrists, 
anatomically 14 Duck 15 Shiite leader 16 Place for a 
turkey 17 Mercury model 18 French parent 19 Leaf part 20 Soft headrests 23 • won't be 
afraid" ("Stand by Me" lyric) 
24 Common cowboy nickname 
25 Chinese Mafia 28 Undiluted 31 Certain steak 35 Amiens 
affirmative 
36 Mideast's Gulf of 37 ESPN anchor Rich 
38 Loser in the first World Series, 1903 
42 Rhea's role on "Cheers" 43 Bifocal, e.g. 
44 End of some Web site addresses 
45 Zeno was one 46 New Jersey cagers 47 Two tablets, maybe 48 "The Godfather'' 
novelist 50 Purpose 52 Rich pie filling 58 "Stop your 
gabbin'!" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
T E C -:-+,:-:+:::+.:+;;, W R E N OG ODE RATE 

59 One of the major leagues: Abbr. 
60 Beach sights 62 Toast topper 63 Envelope sealer 64 Writer Jong 65 In a heap 66 Longings 67 Fix, as a 
driveway 
DOWN 
1 Unseld of the N.B.A. 
2 One of five Norwegian kings 
3 Yokel 4 Grammy winner tor "Constant 
Craving," 1992 5 Take care of 6 Five's partner 7 One of the 
major leagues: Abbr. 8 Player with a 
Puzzle by Ethan Cooper 
string quintet 27 Prefix with 9 It may be glycerine
picked up in a gym 
29 Alway 30 ft's measured in
1oEquatorial nation 
degrees 32 Bone: Prefix11 Swear 12 Graycoats 
33 Food and shelter, e.g. 
material, maybe 34 Follow 21 Shiva worshiper 36 Item with beads 22 Engine 39 Sloppy 
measures 40 Worked (up) 25 Subjects 41 Starts to raise, 26 first 
as a hem (diamond call) 46 Register button 


47 Reserved 55 Guadeloupe and others 
49 Full of life 56 Soldier's
51 Fly catcher 
assignment 52 Think (over) 

57 Art 53 "Gotcha" 58 Western Indian 54 Take aback 61 Sucker 
Answers to any three clues In this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http.1/observer.nd.edu/ 

------~---~--~~----~-----------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address __________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


PORTS 
page 28 
Berticelli 
embodied 
ND spirit 
By KERRY SMITH 
Assisrnnr Sporrs Ediror 
Bernadette Cafarelli was 
having a bad day. So, of 
course, she went to talk to the 
friend she knew could cheer 
her up. 
C a fa ­relli. the associate sports informa­tion direc­tor. vented her frus­trations to M i k e Berticelli. The next day, a bouquet of flowers sitting on her desk welcomed her to work. 
Mike Berticelli always knew the right thing to do. 
Whether it was cheering up a co-worker or demanding his teams play to their fullest, the 10-year Irish soccer coach seemed to have the perfect words or gestures for any situ­ation. 
"Mike could cheer up your day just by saying something funny." said Cafarelli. "I always enjoyed talking to him. Many times I would go down to his office with the intention of staying only five minutes but end up being there for over an hour just talking." 
The unexpected death of Berticelli leaves a void in the Notre Dame community that will be hard to fill. 
The University will remem­ber Berticelli, who died Tuesday of a heart attack at the age of 48, as a demanding soccer coach. a thoughtful col­league and a loyal friend. 
In his 23-year coaching career, Berticelli was known for rebuilding failing soccer programs into success stories. In the last 10 years, he took Notre Dame from a lackluster program in the late '80s and thrust it into the national spot­light with impressive recruit­ing and consistent winning records in the '90s. 
Although he could share a joke off the field, Berticelli was an intense and demanding coach on the sidelines. 
"As a coach he meant a lot to the team. He cared more about the players and the team than anyone," said Stephen Maio, a junior defend­er. "He put so much effort into coaching and brought a lot of enthusiasm and excitement to the team." 
Bcrticelli worked hard and 

see BERTICELLl/page 24 

.. 
SPORTS 
ATA 
GLANCE 
• Notre Dame fails to match Miami's shooting 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The ball didn't fall in Notre Dame's favor Tuesday. 
Notre Dame (12-8, 3-3) and Miami (12-7, 5-2) were virtu­ally even in every statistical category Tuesday, with one major exception -shooting, which led to a 63-49 Miami victory. 
"It's tough when we're shooting the ball and it's not going down for us," Irish for­ward Harold Swanagan said. 
The Irish shot 32 percent from the field compared to the Hurricanes' 47 percent, lead­ing to the lowest point output of the season for the Irish. 
Notre Dame head· coach Matt Doherty said the effort was there, but Miami came at the blue and gold with more than it could handle. 
"You really have to r,redit Miami's defense, and I didn't have an answer for it," Doherty said. "It was really an awful, helpless feeling on the sidelines. I thought their defense took the energy out of us. I thought our kids played hard, and I thought our kids competed. We didn't have many open looks." 
Miami had a lot of open 
at St. John's Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 
at Alaska-Fairbanks Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
OBSERVER 


looks, thanks to the 11 assists by Vernon Jennings. 
The two teams played on an even keel to open up play, but the Miami defense smothered Notre Dame's shooting. 
Trailing by four with 5 min­utes. 29 seconds remaining in the first half, the Irish were called for five fouls in the next 
2:16. and the Hurricanes pulled ahead by eight. 
The Hurricanes built their lead to as many as 12 early in the second half behind five points from Johnny Hemsley, who had 18 in the game. 
The Irish began to make a move, however, as Carroll hit a long three to close to within nine. 
Then Murphy rebounded a David Graves miss, taking it up for a slam-dunk to lower the gap to seven. 
But what could have been a momentum swing for the Irish swung to the other side of the pendulum as the officials whistled Murphy for a techni­cal foul for hanging on the rim. Hemsley nailed both free throw attempts. 
"I didn't see him hanging on the rim," said Doherty. "It was unfortunate because we were kind of getting a little juice going." 
Murphy tried to use the technical as motivation. 
"I played harder after that because it got me fired up," Murphy said. "I wanted to get down and play some defense 
Weathering the Storm 
Niele Ivey and the Irish prepare to keep their perfect Big East record intact tonight when they travel lo 
New York lo take on 
St. John's. 
page 26 

and get a run going." Unfortunately for the Irish, that run never developed. 
On the following possession, Mario Bland knocked two free throws on a Jere Macura foul. The next time down the court, Bland got two points more on a short jumper to put the Hurricanes ahead by 13. 
Notre Dame never got any closer, falling behind by as many as 21 late in the contest. 
The Hurricanes' defense controlled Irish star forward Troy Murphy, limiting him to 14 points, compared to his usual 25 per game. 
"Our kids were energized," Hamilton said. "[Murphy] worked awful hard inside. He fouled Elton Tyler out, and I think Mario [Bland] had four fouls guarding him." 
Notes 

. 
The Hurricanes were an impressive 17 for 18 from the free throw line, giving them an advantage the Irish couldn't combat. 

. 
Both teams had 31 rebounds and 18 personal fouls in the conference con­test. Miami had 16 assists to Notre Dame's 13, and 17 turnovers to 18 for Notre Dame. 

. 
Macura and freshman Ivan Kartelo started in place of Graves and Swanagan, who Doherty said were not mental­ly prepared at the pre-game dinner. 


Men's Swimming Oakland University at Milwaukee Saturday, l p.m. 

s 
vs. Olivet 
Saturday, 3 p.m. 
Wednesday, January 26, 2000 
• Irish cannot stay on top of game 
After last night's disap­pointing loss to Miami. Irish fans have to wonder which Notre Dame basketball team will take the floor each night. 
The one that knocked off Ohio State and Connect­icut on the road or the· one that got spanked by Rutgers and Syracuse? The team that shot the lights out against Pittsburgh or the team that wasn't able to exe­cute at home against Miami. 
"We have everything there. I just can't figure it out," point guard Jimmy Dillon said. "Matt [Carroll] and I were sitting in the locker room trying to figure out what more we can do to be ready for games. We're a young team and one day it is just going to click for us and 

see KESSLER/page 25 
Fencing vs. Penn Stare Saturday & Sunday 










