
Backstreet's Back ... alright! 
Need help coping? 

Tuesday
Scene compares Backstreet's second album to 
Kate Rowland gives advice on how to deal with

'N Sync·s newly released sophorrwre album. 
the stressful time ofl\4ay on campus.

See who wins the battle ofthe boy bands. 
MAY2,
Viewpoint . page 9

Scene . page 11 
2000 
THE 



The Indepeudent Newspapa Servi,1g Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 130 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Londomers caught in anti-capitalist protest 

By FINN PRESSLY London Correspondent 
LONDON 
As central London dissolved into ~1ay Day protests Monday, the Notn~ Dame London Cenire found itself on the brink of the chaos devf1l­oping just See Also yards away. 
"Internationals
Though 
protest against
classes at the 
Notre Dame capitalism" Centre were 
page5
cancelled for Bank lloliday, the approxi­mate British equivalent of Labor Day, many students were in the building using computer and library facilities when the protests occurred. 
Protesters were initially focused at Parliament Square, about a mile away from the Notre Dame building, though the melee eventually .spread northward along Whitehall to encompass Trafalgar Square, just one block away from the Centre. 
Police in riot gear formed a barricade outside the Notre Dame building, and eventually curious students ventured into the demonstration, which had proceeded relatively peacefully throughout the morning. 
Junior Tom Ogorzalek wit­nessed one of the most violent 
incidents of the day, when a McDonald's restaurant on Whitehall ·was smashed and pil­laged by anarchists protesting globalization. 
"At 2 p.m .. a bunch of masked ... individuals started to take chairs and bash in the windows of McDonald's," he said. "In about 1 5 or 20 min­utes, it wasn't recognizable as a McDonald's anymore." 
"They were throwing fries into the crowd and all of the change from the cash regis­ters," he said, adding that municipal police were initially beaten back by the protestf1rs, who were only dispersed by the 
see RIOTS/page 4 


Protesters gather on and around Nelson's column in Trafalgar Square, London (left), to protest against capitalism. Police units (right) form a barricade between the square and the Notre Dame London Centre. Protests were also held in Berlin, Moscow, as well as a number of U.S. cities including Porland, Ore., New York City and Olympia, Wash. 
Committee may be dissolved, revamped 
By HELENA RAYAM NcwsW,irn 
The dissolution or change in function of the Campus Life Council 
(CLC) is a possibility for tho future, as members <lnbated this and other last minute 
issut~s at Lhe 
final meeting of thE) CLC of' the scliool year 
1 

!'vlonday. 
"If ti1is body !continues tol nxist, thnre is work to do," 

O'Donoghue

said Brian ()'Donoghue, student body president. A current proposal by the Academic Council recommends the formation a new 
council that will address similar issues to those of thn CLC. 
The proposal's main recommen­dation calls for the formation of an advisory committee to the presi­dent of student affairs comprised of student. faculty and administrators. 
This IICV\, Advisory Committee will operate by "bringing the key play• ors to the table -the students, fac­ully and administrators -to talk about the prohlems and tensions LhaL exist between acadcmk and student life." said Michael Palumbo, outgoing student body vi.rn prnsident. 
Though the recommendation does not explicitly announce the dissolution of the CLC, some mem• bers questioned if' thn CLC would still be a viahle council and if the advisory council would tackle com· parable topics. 
The Academic Council, chaired by Father Edward Malloy, submit­ted the proposal to the CLC for its review, but also to make thf)m aware that the Officer's Group will rneet in August to make more final decisions on the formation of the Advisory Council. 
"He does not want to dissolve the CLC without another [council) to take its place," said O'l)onoghue. 
"l think he's trying to get a sense of whether those who sit on this body think this is a good idea because they are the onos most affected," said student body vice president Brooke Norton. 
O'Donoghue said tho Advisory Council would have a different "channel of communication" with 
see.CLC/page 4 
Malloy, Crenshaw dedicate new golf course 
Sprecial 10 The Observer 
The William K. and Natalie 0. Warren Golf Course was dedicated Monday and is open to the public beginning today. 
The private dedication ceremony featured a blessing of the course by University president Father Edward Mallov and remarks from the designer, professional golfer Ben Crenshaw. 
The course is named in honor of the par· cnts of Notre Dame alumnus William Warren Jr., of Tulsa, Okla., who chairs a foundation founded by his father that made a $7 million gift to underwrite construction of the course. 
Warren and other benefactors participated 
see GOLF/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, May 2, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Who we are 
The dork h; ticking. 
There are just a [cw short weeks left of my career al Notre Dame. As graduation and bigger things get closer, I find myself trying to capturn what it was like to spend five years in this University. I wondrr what 
my classmates, studying architrcture, drawing 1.:ar­toons and all those other things haw done to shape me. 1want to know what kind of person a graduatP of NotJ•p Dame becomes. As a collected group, who are we'? 


l have detPrmined that we  Jeff Beam  
arc many things, several of  
them in contradiction. We  
are hugr ­ the school's  
national name and interna- Cartoonist  
tiona.l draw gives campus a  
largf-r-than-life image. When  
someone throws a bottle on  

a basketball court it's national news. The samn goes for the administration and nearly every decision they make. But we arc also incredibly small. As a collected community we barely fill the .IACC Evervonc seems Lo know everyone els<•, so news traveis fast and cont,mtious news even laster. We~ poke our noses in each others· busi­1rnss and make others concer11s rnir own. Te11 years from now we'll probably tell people about our friend Conor who got sick, whether we knew him or not. 
We are arrogant. though sometimes it is endearing. even charming. We know how dini­cult it can be to get into and through Notre Dame and arc damn proud of the fact we've done it, and that self-confidence is attractive. Our favoritP game (and most unsettling) is to prove to everyone that we have more work and have had less sleep tban they have. There is no school more boastful when our athletic teams do well. 
We are critical. We berate our own teams when they struggle. We rip into the few people courageous enough to speak from another view­point. For every concession or consideration we get from the administration, we find four more things to criticize. Frequently we are right, some­times we are wrong, but we are constantly look­ing for a better model. 
We are insensitive. So many of us are similar in background and upbringing that we some­times don't understand the outlook of someone who wasn't. Just as often. though, we are too sensitive. WP-take every joke or satirn way out of its context and determinr that it has offended every inch of our souls. We refuse to laugh at ourselves. We do not realize that finding humor in our faults is a healthy way of beginning to deal with them. 
We are enterprising. Many alumni have criti­cized us for tarnishing the school's image. In the end. though. we'll be remembered for more posi­tive things. On our guard, '.'Jotre Dame students have launched NDToday.com. providing the con­sistent social dialogue the school has been trying to foster for years. Other students formed the women's boxing program. Formerly an all-male school, I\D has developed into a powerhouse for women's athletics. We have preserved time-hon­ored traditions for those Lo come and creat(id new ones. 
We are compassionate. We rally around class­mates who need our support. We do service work in astounding numbers. Our classmates created Teamwork for Tomorrow, a brand new mentoring and literacy program for youth Lhat will eventually serve as a model for similar pro­grams around the rountry. 
We are loyal. We are concerned. We are spirit­ed. We are i\D. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are lh(Jse of lite author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Laura Rompf Chris Scott Kare Nagengasc Sam Derhei mer 
Kitlin Turner Graphics Sports Kris Forcier Katie McVoy Production Viewpoint Molly McVoy Pacrick McElwee Lab Tech Peter Richardson 
rhe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mond•r rl,mugh hid,,y c-xLcpt during ex;1m :md vac,uion period.,. The Ob~erver i., a rnemh.·r of die A.s/ioci:ueJ Pre.~~-All reproduction rights an: reserved. 

QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"iVolre Dame may be  "The faith that we  
the only major  have has been passed  
institution where  clown to us primarily  
athletics actually  by many groups of  
Jund~ arademic  women.  
advanrement ­ at  
most schools the  Dolores Leckey  
athletic department  Madeleva lecturer  
loses money. "  
Scott Malpass  
ND vice president of finance  

"It's a goud thing he has a job on campus as a rectur, because he belongs on the bench in a collar." 
Matt Doherty men's basketball coach, on Father Tom Doyle's play in the Hall of Fame Bookstore Basketball game 
"We need to reach beyond the walls <~( laFortune to educate students lo all the opportunities which we work so hard to provide them with." 
Brian O'Donoghue student body president 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Clinton speaks at Eastern Mich U. commencement 
YPSILANTI, Mich. 

As access to the Internet sprnads and personal information becomes more readily availabl(i, President Clinton addressed concerns that many may be having about their own personal security. 
"/\II the possibilities must be nwa­sured against the challenges of' this new era. Challenges to our privacy as individuals. to our pledge of equal opportunity to nvery member of our community. to our steward­ship of the environment as citizens of the planet," Clinton said Sunday to Eastern Michigan University's graduating class at their com­menc()ment ceremony. 
"We arc in the midst of a pro­found revolution. the most sweeping since the industrial revolution a century ago," Clinton said. 
With major-advances in technolo­gy that include genetic research and 
"All the possibilities must be measured against the challenges (~{ lhis new era." 
Bill Clinton 
U.S. President 
advanc11d internet access. the l'rnsident outlined plans to ensure privacy is not jeoparclizod by tech­nology in arnas of individual finan­cial and medical records. 
"The same genetic code that offers hope !'or millions can also be used to deny health insurance. The same technology that links distant places can also be used to track our every move online," Clinton said adding that "we can't let break­throughs in t,ichnology, break walls of privacy." 
The Prnsident's plan incluch~s 
allowing consunwrs to determirrn what information can be exchanged between two companies; banning Llw use of medical records against individuals in casns of health c·owr­age, mortgages and crndit; protnct­ing personal consumer information; and ensuring access to records and correction of errors. 
Among otlwr issues concerning the President is tlw widening gap betwenn llrn rich and poor becaus<1 of' limited access to technology. 
".lust as we had to close the industrial divide in tlw 20th cpntu­ry, we must now close tlw digital divide in the 21st century," Clinton said. "We have to mak(• the lntnrnnt as common as tPlqihmw usagP." 
Information tc>chnology makes up onP-third of tlw nation's growth but USI\S only 8 percPnl of tlw work­force, Clinton said. P-mphasizing tlw need to narrow tlw "digital divide." 

IU Greek functions forced off campus 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

The Indiana University Interf'raternity Council announced Friday it is banning ale.oho] from all hous­es on campus. Tlrn resolution passed by IFC strictly limits social functions and requires alcohol at off-cam­pus functions be served by a third-party vendor. "We are saying that we are going to go alcohol free for a change and start drinking responsibly by going through a third vendor," junior Malt Couch, Kappa Sigma president said. "We are going to be proactive versus reactive and take care of' the problem now rather than later. A number of houses had some prob­lems ... but not us." The resolution received the neces­sary two-thirds majority and passed 17-4. l'anhellenic Association agreed Wednesday night to only co-spon­sor events with fraternities that am alcohol-f'ree in support of fraternitins that have plPdged to abstain from alcohol. Thn four-part policy rPquircs houses to register social events 72 hours in advance with IFC unless IU grants an exemption. The policy defines a social nvent as involving two or more fraternities or more than 100 people, and all rules and regulations will be enforced by the lU administration and IFC. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather(\sl forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Tuesday  ?)­ 71  49  
Wednesday  ~  73  55  
Thursday  ~  79  58  
Friday  ~  80  59  
Saturday  ~  80  56  
'\/  

4.~,G.p~Q q ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pr Cloudy Cloudy Vra Assoc:taled PFsss GraphicsNef 
U. Washington freshman shot, killed 
SEATTLE 
Univnrsity of Washington freshman .Jami's Sanderson was fatally shot by a 2:{-year-old Seattle man at I0:50 p.m. Saturday. Sgt. Bog,•r Dixon of tlw Seattle Police Department said the shooting involVPd two mains, "with one fatally shot and the other in rus­tody ISaturdayl." The suspect was released Sunday and has not yet been charged with a crime. I lis namn has not been released and tlrn investigation is still underway. According to witnesses, the shooter was a pizza delivery driver. Sgt. Hichard O'Neill of tlrn SPD's North Precinct said Sanderson jumped in front of a car in the intersection and then climbed on top of tlrn hood. The driver told Sanderson to get o!T the car, yelling in a loud voice, police said. Sandnrson then supposedly tried to force tlrn driver's sidl' door of tlw car open, at which the driver rnacted by shooting Sanderson in the chest. Sanderson was given CPI{ on the scern! then taken to Harborview Medical CPntcr where he was declared cl<~ad on arrival. Officials in tlw homicide department said he was dmtd almost imme­diately. Investigating ol'ficers did not say whether alco­hol was involved in the incident. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, May 2. 

FRONTS IQ2000 AccuWeather, Inc. ~ ~ ~ 
@"'"'© . CJ CJ CJ . G;J {) <,et:·: 
j High Low Showers Rain T•.storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt CloudL_Cloudy 
V,a Associated ~,ass 
Atlanta  83  64  Las Vegas  96  68  Portland  65  50  
Baltimore  72  49  Memphis  78  65  Sacramento  78  52  
Boston  63  43  Milwaukee  61  47  St. Louis  76  59  
Chicago  71  51  New York  66  50  Tampa  85  65  
Houston  77  66  Philadelphia  10  51  Wash DC  72  53  


Tuesdav, May 2, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Knights of Columbus donations help charities throughout area 
ing 1.o S(~II a hoagie or two. sale is just one of 1.he 
By HELENA RAYAM Morn n-icently, howflver. the fundraisers that has allowed 
N~ws Wricer food of choice for tho Notre the Knights to help South 
Dame Knights of Columbus (K Bend and surrounding com­
Ovor 20 years ago, Notre 
of Cl concession stand has rmmities.
Dame l'oolball [ans might 
been steak. Recently donating "We've been soiling some­
hav<' seen students wildlv 
$4:i ,500 to charities, tho steak thing outside the Knights
!;houling 011 South Quad try·­

ATTENTION NOTRE DAME 
JUNIORS & SENIORS 
RESIDENT ASSISTANTS NEEDED: 
Holv Cross College is looking for afew good men 10 serve in our residence life program. 
Mature men are needed in acoed environment of over 200 freshmen and sophomore resident students. 
Live across the street from Notre Dame while being an RA. 
The successful RA ca'ndidate will receive room and board. 
Holy Cross College is atwo-year, liberal arts college with atransfer-intent curriculum and a population of approximately 500 students. 
If interested, please contact: 
Mr. Chris Ruhe Director of Residence Life Holy Cross College P.O. Box 308 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-8409 cruhe@hcc-nd.edu 

* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Right for you. Right from the start. 
© 2000 Holy Cross College 
building for quite some time," said olltgoing grand knight Peter Breen. 
The primary beneficiaries of the donation are Jibault School for Boys and Corvilla, a home for the mentally chal­lenged. Other recipients of donations include Holy Cross Missions. the Women's Care Center and several other charities. As the oldest and largest Notre Dame student group. the K of C strives to represent Catholicism, service and fraternity 
"That element of faith is what's able to tie the Knights of' 
Columbus togeth­
"Here we have the 
nr so tightly," said tries to Breen. Founded at Catholic traditions. draw in the University in members
That kind ofcore set 
1910, the chapter who did
ofvalues help to lay
will begin to cclc­community bra tn its 90th the groundwork service in anniversarv dur­h i g h
for our charity''
ing the fall semes­school. 
ter. All mem­Because the Peter Breen bcus are money from steak outgoing grand knight encouraged 
the success of groups such as K of C. 
"Herc we have the Catholic traditions. That kind of corn set of values helps to lay the groundwork for our charity," said Breen. 
The K of C is comprised of' Catholic males ol' at least 18 years of age. a demographic that is not as numerous on non-Catholic campuses. "We always get a lot of young and new guys who are ener­gized," said Breen. 
Currently, the Notre Dame K of C has about 80 mem­
bers. Breen 
said that 
the K of C 
sales goes to char­ity, the Uni\'ersity permits the K of C to have the sales for every football game. According to ·Breen, over the years, the "pre-game tradi­
tion" of steaks has attracted many faithful fans. 
"We've been very blessed. We have had a lot of loyal customers," he said. Breen, a Notre Dame graduate student, attended the non-religiously affiliated Vanderbilt University, and said that reli­gious affiliation influences 
to do indi­
vidual as well as group service includ­ing being ushers for the Basilica masses. A continuous project that the K of C assists is Food Share, which provides the Homeless Center with leftover food from the dining halls. 
K of C, both a social and charitable group, has over 
1.6 million members and Notre Dame K of C is one of the 12,000 councils nation­wide. 





nrrn casK? 
Look no further-the OIT is HIRING! 
Cluster consultants (suMMER/FALL EMPLOYMENT) 
DUTIES INCLUDE: 
ASSISTING USERS & FELLOW CONSULTANTS MAINTAINING A PLEASANT WORK ENVIRONMENT -ADMINISTERING THE CLUSTER POLICIES & PROCEDURES 
Resident Computer Consultants (FALL) 
DUTIES INCLUDE: 
TROUBLESHOOTING 
-INSTALLING &REPAIRING NETWORK CONNECTIVITY OF RESIDENT COMPUTERS IN THE RESIDENCE HALLS ANSWERING GENERAL INTERNET SOFTWARE QUESTIONS 
Apply now at http://www.nd.edu/-ndoit/employ 
81 
Questions? Call 631-8417 
page 4 ..The Obsm1er . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, May 2, 2000 
a fundamental problem with the 
had been uprooted, and all any of the other protestersCLC:. 
of the grass had been put and tourists leave.
CLC 

Riots
"We get diverted way too often 
into the road," said "They basically had with procedural matters," said 
Herman. "Most of' the stat­everyone trapped. They
continued from page 1 continued from page I
Kirk. 
ues had gral'liti on them." kept pushing everyone in Faculty Senate member Professor 
Though riot police tried into a smaller and smallermore administrators. 
Edward Manier also expressed his 
arrival or riot police. to contain the demonstra­area with no exit," she
Tlw nevv Council's structure 
problem with procedures, but saitl 
"Hint police started doing tion to Parliamfmt. Square, said. "PPople were yellingwould differ from that of the CLC, 
that he supported the Advisory 
charges 10 yards al a Berman said that they at the cops. l was scared. I
having 18 members with six stu• 
Commiltce as a rnplaccmcnt of CLC 
time," Ogorzalok said. eventually succeeded in thought violence woulddent. fac:ulty and administrativi> 
because the faculty voice would be 
"t\ftnr the third charge, breaking· the line and break out."
members to look ai student and 
heard. 
there was just a line of began marching south Guest said that bdore
academk issm~s. 
"This body was supposed to talk 
w:ople, myself' included, along thn Thames River. the oxits were seallld, the
As members discussed their sup­about academic and rnsident.ial 
taking pict.urns." Iforman said the atmos­mood had bepn non-vio­
po rt or concern about the new 
<'Oncerns and academics always Becausn the crowd was p he ni in Parliament lent. Once thP, police beganAdvisory Council, tlrnrn was unc:cr­
take the back burner," said Ava 
(·.omposed of such diverse Square, was rnlatively closing in, the tension was
tainty as to how the ne,v Council 
Preacher, assistant dean or the 
protesters, ranging from peacef'ul, comparr.d with. lwightennd dramatically.
would directly affect the CLC. 
College of Arts and Letters. 
anarchists Lo cnvironnrnn­the vandalism in progress The mason for theirBPcause the school year is Pnding. 
Sympathizing with Preacher, St. 
talists. Ogorzalok said the further up tho road. three-hour internment wasthe CLC will not know the progress Edward's Hall n-'ctor Father Dave 
mood of' the dmnonstration "Ilippins, communists, so that police could checkof' the Officer's Group decision f'or 
Scheidler expressed his own senti· 
varied greatly. anarchists, socialists -the faces of those leaving
three months. 
ments and those other rectors 
"t\t times it was really ... everyone was then~." he Trafalgar Square against"We want lo b!1 able to dcliberal!l 
while trying to represPnt tlw stu­
violent, but at otlrnr times said. "Tlrnre was lots of pictures taken during earli­
before the Allgust meeting, but ... 
dnnts on committees and councils 
it was really pnacnf'ul." he drug use going on and lots er incidents. namely thethe timing is bad," said former stu­
with more faculty and administra­
said. "It was so interesting of' drinking." McDonald's riot, slrndent body prnsident Micah Murphy. 
tors. 
to see these things first As riot police began clos­explained.
"Fssentially, what !the Officer's 
"Somel.imes we fool truncated," hand." ing in on Urn protest, some Guest recalled u conver•Group and Father :'vlalloy] are look­
said Scheidler. "Maybe the el'f'e<> 
Torn I l!ffman also f'ound students found themselves satinn she had with anoth·
ing for is our input before a final tivencss of the CLC could increase 
himself in the middle of' the trapp!ld in Trafalgar or person being detained indecision." said O'Donoghue. 
by narrowing its focus." 
action, this timo on Squaro. Junior Laura Trafalgar Square.
Oue concern of some CU: mem­
With fewer issues on its table, the Parliament Squarn, when! GU!·lSt was among those "This guy told us. 'Inbers was the reductio11 in the num­CU: would nol step on the toes of a self-proclaimed "guerilla who spent ,warty three Anrnrica. you guys arn citi·
ber of students on the Advisory 
nnwly formnd Advisory Council, but gardeners" wern reclaim· hours behind a police bar­zens. llere. we're sub­Commiltee c.omparcd Lo CU:, which 
continue to address campus lif'e 
ing urban spaces in the ricade. jects.'"
has 13 students, one administrator, issues. 
name of r,iturning to more Though slrn only spent Then he pointlld toward
six rrctors and two fac:ulty mem­At t.he conclusion of' tlrn meeting, environmentally conscious 10 minutns in Trafalgar Buckingham Palacn andbers. 
CLC members voted against a pro­
society. Square, Guest said that riot said, "And it's all bncausn
"This Ad lloc eommittee also 
posal for the immodiaw implflmen­"All or Parliament Squarn police refused to let. her or of her."
requires the same thing only less• 
tation of the new Advisory Council,
ening the number of' students," said but the majority of' the membersoff-campus senator Pat 1--oy. 
want to get more information and
"We'll have our voice dimin­to deliberate on the status of tfrnished," said Murphy, referring to 
CLC at a later date.
the situation where the new Advisory Council replaces the CLC. 
Palumbo brought up the µoint In other CLC News: that a council with administrators . The Faculty Senate submitled a on it would decrease the number of resolution about clarifying Ian• 
necessarv recommendations guage in duLac and "The Source," because tile administrators would especially with regard to discipli­be accessible to address those con­nary hearings. 
cerns. "Some student organizations have 
"I can't sen this group talking academic purpose. They have to be about the sanrn lhings that we do," free to discuss without concern that said Bill Kirk, vice president ol' their discussions will be subject to Student Affairs. lie gave examples reprimand," said Manier. of the parking and AT'.'vl resolutions . The resolution was not passed 
passed previously this year. because of' possible discrepancies in Kirk and others did say there was thn clauses of' the resolution. 

"As You Wish" ~ 
IMPORTS~~: 
Sweaters, Tapestries, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much More! Guatemala • Bali • Mexico • Brazil • Thailand • India • Ecuador 
Proceeds from sales of jewelry gaurantee the loving hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average salary, as well as funds for their education. St. Mary's -In front of Hagger -Rain or wind in LeMans 
May 1-May 5, 10 to 5 pm Notre Dame: LaFortune Room 108 (near phone) May 8-May 12, 10 to 5 pm___ 
Whylug your campus? 



B~'fKESPWS 
Call 277-5555 for free pick up at 
your roo111 -on or off-ca1npus. 
Boxes Plus 
•the lower priced shipper• 

5622 Grape Road-Wilshire Plaza 
Bring your belongings and this ad to Boxes Plus and receive a 10% discount. 

Register at lrelandByNET.com to win an Irish Holiday for Two! . . Visit lrelandByNET.com today to enter for a :xciting trip for two l? _Dublin, including 
airfare and hotel accommodations for 4 nights at one of Dublin s finest hotels. 
There's a new trip to win every month!* 
Hurry and enter -the first trip will be given away in June 2000! 
lrelandByNET.com is all things Irish with new_s, ~ports, ~eathe_r., history.culture, live chat, discussions fr forums and tourist information. V1s1t us today! 




orld 



Tuesday, May 2, 2000 COI\IPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Columbian prison search reveals contraband, corruption 
BOGOTA, Colombia 

i\l'ler a bloody inmaw riot, security for1,;es rnnductcd a swci~p through a high-security µrison, confiscating two AK-47 assault rifles, as well as pistols and explosives, police said Monday The search bv 2,000 armed solrliers and pohce at Modelo ,;rison uncovered moon­shine distilleries. sophisticated communica­tions Pquipmrmt and even attack dogs, nation­aI poli(;e chief fiosso .Jose Serrano said. /\uthoritif's mounted the raid. the first sweep of tlw Bogota prison in ·1 5 years, after a battle b1\twe1'11 rival inmate grouµs on Thursday that clainwd 2(i lives anrl left I fl inmates wounded. "This was a cent('!' of crime. extortion, kidnap­ping, prostitution -ove11 satanic sects, .. :-,1n-rano said. Corruption among guards has made it easy for prisoners to smuggle wPapons into Colombia's overcrowded pris­ons, which have boconw incrnasingly unruly. 
Haider steps down as leader of Austria's Freedom Party 
VIE'.'JNA. Austria 

.lcH'rg llaidcr. the leadPr of Austria's far­right Frrn'dom Party steppPd down today after 14 yPars as party leader and several months of international and donwstic protest against his party's inclusion in government. Vice Chancellor Susanne Hiess-Passer was elected as 1-laider's replacement by an overwhelming majority. In a speech to thP congress, Haider callcd for unity in the party under H.eiss­PasS(\r·s dirnction. "It must be our goal to work so hard in the future that in the next dection. thtirc will be no shirt lO the left," he told tlw fJ<)0 del!)gatcs. llaider, 50. gained notorir.ty f'or his statements praising th~ "ord1ffly" full cmploymPnt policies of Adolf Hitler. and calling Waffen SS veterans "men of honor." llr. has repeatedly apologized for such remarks. 
U.S. opens fund to compensate Holocaust victims 
WASHINGTON 

Th<' Clinton administration and the U.S. Chambr.r or Commerce announced Mondav the Cl'Pation or a fund to solicit donations from American corporations to compensate victims of Nazi forced labor during World War II. l)f)puty Treasury Secretary Stuart Eizenstat said "wr. certainly hope they will be as gener­ous as possible." Craig Johnstone, the cham­ber's senior vice president for international affairs, said the project is the result of requests !'mm a number of member compa­ni1•s who were "interested in doing this if the funds go to the victims and not into the pock­l'ts" or trial lawy1)rs. Several large American corporations have acknowledged that their German subsidiaries lrnnel'ited from slave labor after operations were taken over by the German government during the war. 

S&P 500: Composite 1468.25 
Volume;

10811.70 984,5000000,000
+15.82 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY ':"I.C-ltER ' CKANGE 1 C!OJIGE PP.ICE 
11.ICROSOf'T CORP  MSF'I  . S •.2j  -r3. 6!i00  73.U  
C'ISCO SY9'1'~S  csco  +-J .05  .J-2. 1119  71.U  
A'N,T WlREL.ISS <; Dl':LL COMi'UT~R ?l'll.SDM 100 ..,..  AWE DELL QQO  +10, 37 +-l. 87 +.O ,,;2  . ;I. 3i2!5 -i-0.;,'350 +O.'a1M)  35. 25 51.06 95. 62  
INTEL CORP  u,rc  +0,l&  -+0,3075  127.l2  
MCI WORLDCOM IN  WCOM  ,._l, ll  +O. !.iOJ.5  45. 94  
ORACLE CORP  ORCL  -.Jl  -.24i5  79. 69  
AEJCALL SUNDOWN  llX5D  +:.ill. 77  +4.UOO  23.U  
GLC,BA.L CROSSING  GBLX  ... 10. 51  +3. JlQO  34. Sl  

YUGOSLAVIA 


Associated Press UROSEVAC Touring separate parts of Kosovo, Defense Secretary William Cohen and the departing NATO comman­der Gen. Wesley Clark warned Monday of new Serb-Albanian violence. Pentagon spokesman Kenneth Bacon, who accompanied Cohen, said 120 more U.S. soldiers had arrived in Kosovo to begin surveillance operations along Kosovo's eastern boundary with Serbia, where concerns have been raised about insurgency and arms trafficking. "We have strengthened 

our capability of interrupt­ing the flow of weapons," Cohen said. 
Clark, who leaves his post Wednesday as supreme Allied commander, also warned the Kosovo Protection Corps, the suc­cessor to the disbanded Kosovo Liberation Army, to stay out of an insurgency in the Presevo Valley, a region just outside Kosovo, but which has a majority Albanian population. 
A newly formed ethnic Albanian rebel group has emerged, calling itself the "Liberation Army of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac" after the three predominantly ethnic 
Albanian towns in the region. Clashes in the area involving Serbian police have been attributed to the new group. 
Clark stressed that the Kosovo Protection Corps was set up to give help in nonmilitary emergencies like natural disasters. 
"We're not going to allow them to get involved in pro­viding logistic support for any fighting," Clark said. "They're not going to be permitted to have a securi­ty role and certainly not a logistics role." 
Cohen told 500 U.S. troops at Camp Bondsteel. the main U.S. base near Urosevac in eastern Kosovo, that Kosovo remained "a very danger­ous place" and declined to speculate when peacekeep­ers may leave the province. The 40,000 NATO peace­keepers arrived in June after a 78-day NATO-led bombing campaign drove Yugoslav forces from the province. 
"The passions that still reside here are still pretty high, and they are likely to remain high for some time to come," Cohen said. "You are helping ... people to see the benefits of engaging in peaceful interchange ... as opposed to the kind of hatreds that mean digging more graves." 

Internationals protest against capitalism 
There were also May Day protests in The demonstrators tried unsuccess­
Associated Press 

the United States. Police in riot gear fully to storm St. Martin's in the Field broke up a protest by hundreds of Church, daubed anti-war slogans on LONDON 
workers rights supporters in down­the Cenotaph war memorial and Anti-capitalist protesters dashed 
town Portland, Ore. In Olympia. Wash.. defaced a statue of Churchill by puttingwith police Monday in central Lonrlon, 
several hundred demonstrators red paint on his mouth to look like 
tearing down the golden arches of a blocked one uf the city's busiest inter­blood and spraying the communist :'vlcDonald's and spray-painting a ham­sections to protest glohal corpora.lions. symbol on his jacketmPr and sickle un a statue of' Winston And in New York City, more than They also covered the lower part of' Churchill in a May Day protest. 

l,000 immigrants protested outside Nelson's Column, the slendor white 
In Berlin, a march against "capital­City Hall. tower that anchors Trafalgar Square,ism and imperialism" '\ifonday night The riots erupted in London when a with anarchy symbols and scrawled erupted into violence in the Kreuzberg group broke away from a peaceful "Heclaim the Streets 2000" across it. 

neighhorhoorl. a stronghold of leftist demonstration held by protesters As darkness began to fall, 2.000 pro­activism. More than 100 police oflicers planting seeds in front of the Houses or testers corralled in the square were were injured as they used water can­Parliament. allowed to leave, resulting in more vio­nons, tear gas and nightsticks against Demonstrators threw stones and lence. They smashed car windows and a crowd of 10,000 anarchists. At lca.'lt 

other objects near Prime Minister Tony severely damaged several businesses three dozen leftists were arrested. 
IJlair's otftcial residence at Downing before being pushed across the Elsewhere in Europe, the workers Street, where a dozen officers in riot Waterloo Bridge to the south bank of 
who are usually commemorated on 

gear took up positions. The prot<~sters the Thames, where authorities once May Day took a bark seat to the far 
then stormed a nearby branch of again penned them in. 
right. as JJCo-Nazis rallied in German McDonalcl's, breaking windows, tear­"The people responsible for the dam­

cities and nationalist partiAs held 

ing dovrn the large "M" sign and dis­age caused in London today are an demonstrations in Prance. 
tributing food. absolute disgrace," Blair said. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, May 2, 2000 
and the first hole. The Warrnn Golf Course \Varren, Jr., is an avid spans 6,744 yards from the

Golf 
golfer who is a member of Lhe back tees, (,,:~46 vards from Augusta National c;otf' Club in the middle tees ·and 5,302

continued from page 1 
Augusta, Ga., home of the yards from the forward tees. 

Master's Tournament and It includes 86 bunkers, as in a private, opening-day out­Southern Hills Countrv Club well as waler -in the form ing. Joining Warren in the in Tulsa, which will host the of two lakes and .ludav Creek first foursome were U.S. Open for the third time. -on six holes. It als;, has a Crenshaw, Father William While sening as president driving range and putting Beauchamp, executive vice of thn board of Southern Hills greens. presict en t of tlw tJ n iversity in 1991, Warren worked The Notre llame m1>n's and and Stephen Warren, son of closely with Crenshaw and his women's golf teams will make the donor. parlner. Bill Coore, the the Warren course their 
A 1956 graduate of' Notre designers of the club's West home. Dame, 'vVarrnn is the chair­Nine Course. That association A 7,000-squarc-fout club­man of thP. board of the led to the select.ion of house, built in a French coun­William K. Warren Crenshaw and Coore as the try style, foaturns Warren Foundation and Warren designers of the new l\'otre Grille, which o['fers a wirfo American Oil Company. His Dame course. selection of specialty sand­varied business interests Located on 250 wooded wiches and beverages and a involve oil and gas explo­acres adjacent to the north­pro shop with a variety of golf ration itnd produrtion, real east corner of the Notre Dame mPrch andisP. estate and i11Yestmc11ts in campus, the Warren Golf Environmental safeguards common stock securities. Course incorporates tradition­were a priority in the design Warren sicrves on the adviso­al elements of the great goll' and construction of the ry council for the Mendoza courses of the late 1<)th and course and included more Collegr> of HnsinAss and is 20th centuries. than $500,000 for improve­member of the University's Perhaps the most distin­ments to and monitoring of' Edward Frederick Sorin and guishing -and certainly .Imlay Creek. John Cardinal O'Hara unusual -characteristic is The courso's dAsigners, Societies. that there is no par for the Crenshaw and Coore, founded 
Warreu's father, William course. Like one of the their architectural firm in Warren Sr., prPceded hi.s son world's most traditional goll' 198n. Based in Ausli11, Texas, as a member of Lhe business courses, Muirfield in iL has established a reputa­college's advisory council Scotland, only the yardage is tion for creating courses from 1949-1986. A pioneer­posted for each hold of the baSl'd on Lradilional, stratligic ing Oklahoma oilman, he Warren Golf Course, allowing golf. founderl Warren PPtroleum players to attack the course In addition to numerous Company in 1922 and merged from their own perspective renovation projects, Coore it with Gulf Oil in 1956. He and without the preconceived and Crenshaw, Inc., has established the family's chari­notions inherent to par. designed tlrn Barton Creek table foundation in 1945 and Other features are rectan­Club in Austin; the Plantation lived to age 92, dying in 1990. gular and square tee boxes Course in Kapalua, Hawaii; Natalie Warren supported that provide a classic start to the Sand Hills Golf Club near numerous Tulsa civic organi­each hole, undulating greens Mullen, Neb.; the New Town zations and was active in the of varying shapes and con­Golf Club in Indonesia; family's foundation until her structed in a push-up style Talking Stick in Scottsdale, death at the age of 97 in hat slopes from back to front, Ariz.; the East Hampton Golf' 1996. false fronts to most greens Club on Long Island; and 
In addition to the Warren that allow the option of run­nine-hole additions to Foundation's $?-million gift, ning the ball to the flag and Southern Hills and Onion Warren and his family made strategically placed bunkers Creek Country Club in Austin, a benefaction to underwrite that visually enhance each Texas. the construction of the club­hole while challenging play­In a career that spans three house dining room, pro shop ers to proceed with caution. decades, Crenshaw has 
ing for the previous four tributed to the construction
recorded 19 PGA Tour 

years as head professional of the course with other gifts
Victories, including the 1984 

and general manager at the for the holes, the varsity golf
and 1995 '.'vi.asters. He was 

award-winning Blackthorn complex, driving range,
captain of the 1999 U.S. 

Golf Club in South Bend, Ind. putting green, scoreboard,
Hyder Cup team that made a 

A native of Michigan City, clubhouse patio, and starter's
remarkable comeback to 

Ind., Godfrey has completed cottage.
defeat the Europeans at The 

three phases of the PGA Notre Dame students, facul­
Country Club in Brookline, 

Business School and is a ty, staff and alumni will payMass. 
Class A member of the PGA. reduced greens fees and may
Coore began his profession­

Rieth-Reilly Construction schedule tee times on the
al design and construction 

Company of South Bend Warren Golf Course two
career in 1972 with the noted 

moved some 100,000 yards of weeks in advance.
golf course architect Pete 

dirt in shaping the Warren The public may request tee
Dye. He formed his own com­

Golf Course, and Ziolkowski times one week in advance.
pany in 1982 before joining 

Construction, Inc., of South Special schedules will be in
forces with Crenshaw four 

Bend was principal contrac­place during the football sea­years later. 
tor for the course's buildings son.
The Warren Golf Course is 

and other structures. Notre Dame will continue to
directed by Brian Godfrey, 

In addition to the Warren operate its nine-hole course
who was appointed PGA 

Foundation and Bill Warren, on the southwest side of cam­
director of golf and general 

other benefactors have con-pus.
manager in 1998 after serv-




Tuesday, May 2, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Albright: Lott 'stuck 
U.N. aims to eliminate nuclear arms 
. U.S., Russia, U.K., 

in past' on AIDS issue 
China, and France 

A»ocial«l Press 
W/\SI !INGTON 

S<lcr11tary of State Madeleine Albright suggested Monday that SPnat<• Majority I .eftdcr Trent Lott was "stuck in thr. past" in not rcc­
o g n i zing AIDS as a threat to national security. 
''It is very important 
f'or people 
to under­


stand what Lott arc tlw thrnats to national sncurity," /\!bright said at a llP\<\S confornnco. 
Loll. a Mississippi HPpublican, said Sunday the administration's d<\daration llrn.l the disease was a 
threat "is just the president trying to make an appeal to, you know, certain groups." 
This came as hundreds of thou­sands of gay and lesbian rights supportNs marched in the capi­tal. 
"I don't vir,w (AIDS! as a nation­al security threat, not to our national security interests, 110," Lott said. 
Albright said that with millions of pnople succumbing to the dis­ease "AIDS is a national security issue." 
She said the administration was asking for anothm· $100 million next year for prevention educa­tion programs and "it is very important for all those in Icadcr­shiµ µositions to understand what the new threats to our societies arc in the 21st century." 
Asked if she included Lott. Albright sairl, "If tho slrnc fits ..." 
criticism of the live countries' disarmamrnt records that has

NAY, look who's 21 ! 
been mounting since the con­
ference began last week. The trraty, whirh went into

Happy B-day Crazy forcr. in 1970, commits the live countries to pw:sue disar­mament while barring non­nuclear weapons states from obtaining nuclear arms. 
Countries that don't have nuclear arsenals have com­plained that the nuclear pow­ers haven't conducted good­faith negotiations toward the treaty's ultimate goal of a nuclear weapon-free world. 
The five are "using buzz­words of 'unequivocal com­mitment' in the hopes that no one notices that they're not committed to the elimination of nuclear weapons any time soon," said Rebecca Johnson, 


support new treaty 
Associated Press 
UNITFD NATIONS 
Five nuclr,ar powers pledged their "unequivocal commitment" Monday to rid­ding the world of nuclear weapons, but gave no time frame or new ideas to achieve the goal. • 
In a joint statement issued at a conference reviewing the Nuc!r,ar Nonproliferation Conference. the United States, Hussia, China, France and Britain reaffirmed their sup­port fur the treaty and bucked negotiations l'or other disar­mament efforts. 
Arms control groups and countries without nuclear weapons dismissed the state­ment, however, saying it didn't go far enough and was issued only to assuage thr, editor of "Disarmament Diplomacy," a monthly arms control journal. 

She nevertheless said it was astonishing that the five coun­tries were able to agree to a joint declaration at all consid­ering the vast divisions among them. 
The statement only covered the first live nuclear powers, not India and Pakistan, which exploded nuclear devices in 1998 or Israel, which is believed to have nuclear capabilities. 
In the statement, tlrn five plPdged their "unequivocal commitment to the ultimate goals of a complete elimina­
Irish delegate Darach MacFhionnbhairr said the statement merely reiteratr,d the commitmr,nt of the nuclear powers to the NPT's original goals -to which they am already legally bound ­not to any new undertaking to actually achieve them. 
"The unequivocal commit­ment in the ... statement doesn't move forward at all toward what we are seeking in the New Agenda," said MacFhionnbhairr, head or dis­armament in Ireland's Foreign Affairs department. 
Several arms control experts also pointed to the apµarent discrepancy in the 
tion of nuclear weapons" "[The five are] using buzz 
as well as 
words of 'unequivocal
another 
treaty on commitment' in the hopes general that no one notices that 
and com­
they're not committed to the
plete dis­
elimination ofnuclear
arm u ­mfmt. weapons anytime soon. " 
Th c y also bad 
Rebecca Johnson 
negotia­
tions for a editor of "Disannament Diplomacy," treaty a monthly anns control journal banning the pro­duction of the fissile material disarmament. 
statAITI(~llt and new d () C II ­m e n ts that the private Bulletin of t h e Atomic Scientists reportr,d w e r e drafts of 
U.S. 
pro­posals !'or 

U.S. 
and Hussian nuclear 



needed to make nuclear war­heads. 
And they declare that none of their weapons are "target­ed" at any state -a point emphasized by French dele­gation leader Hubert de la Fortelle in presenting the statement to the general con­ference. 
But members of the New Agenda Coalition, a new group of seven moderate countries pressing for further commitment, said the state­ment didn't go far enough. 
The proposals called for the United States and Hussia to possess "large diversified, viable arsenals of strategic offensive weapons" that would enable both to deploy missiles with nuclear war­heads "over the next decade and thereafter." 
Daniel T. Plesch, director of the British American Information Council, said either the U.S. proposals. dated .Jan. 20, are null and void "or the statement the 
U.S. has issued today is a lie." 

Great Opportunity for anyone living in the South Bend/Granger area this summer 
Help out a child with 

Special Needs! Many families 
Why start your day stuck in traffic? There's 
are seeking volunteers 

no such thing as rush hour at an EYA wilderness camp. Our youth counselors live
for the summer. 

and work in some of the most beautiful, natural settings in the eastern United 
Flexible hours to fit your 
States. Hike the Appalachian Trail. 

better than breathing exhaust fumes twice a day? For more information, park your mouse at www.eckerd.org. 
Send resume to: 

Selection Specialist/ND. P.O. Box 7450 Clearwater, FL 33758-7450 
Canoe the Suwanee. Sleep under the 
or e-mail to: recruiting@eckerd.org
schedule. For more 

stars. Develop personal relationships. And help at-risk kids get back on the 
All majors encouraged to apply.
information, please call 

right path. Doesn't that sound a lot Paid training provided.
Jessica Hauser at 634-2856 or 
1-800-222-1473 • www.eckerd.org EOE
Kim Lawton at 675-9554 
_J 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 8 BSERVER Tuesday, May 2, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.0. Box Q. Notre D.unc. IN 465% 024 Sourl1 Di,ung H,111. Noire Dam<. IN 465~6 
EDITOR IN CHIH Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MM/AGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim Lane  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MAN.\GER  
Tim Log,111  Brian Kcssb  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Mari,· Ma11iaglv VtEW!'OlNT EDITOR: f,ifa Haughey SPOR1S EDITOR: Kerry Smich SCF.NE EDITOR: Amand,i Greco S,uNT l\Wff'S EDITOR: Molly McYoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
AflVFRT!SlNG MANAGER: Par Peters An DESIGN MANAGER; Chris Avila SvsTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROLUR: I.lob wooJs GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OmCE MANAGE.RiGENER.~L lNF0 .............. 631 ·7471 fAx ........................... ..........................631-6927 AflVF.RTISING.................................6.31-6900/8840 
obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu Eu!TOR IN CHIEF............ ., ........................6:,1-4542 MANA(;ING EmToR./AsST. ME............ ....631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................6:11-'i:l13 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5.303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE. ... ......................................... 631-4540 qbserver.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR.Y's . ...........................................6:, l-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO. . ....... .................. ............ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS .................651-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at h1tp:llobreroer.11d.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports. features and opinion columns. as well as catto()l1S, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up•m-the 
weekly srudent reviews
minure forecasts. 
advertise for policies 
online features for .spe­
cial cnnpus cover-Jge
.111d r.11es of prim ads 
archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
micles published afrer 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prim and online by the s1uden1S ofthe Universirv ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint M,uv·s College. Edirorial content, incl;,ding advertiscme~r.s, is not governed by policies of the adminisrn,rion ofeither mstitution. The Obseiver rcsetvcs che right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news i, reported as accurately and objecti,·ely as possible. Unsigned edirnrials represent the opinion of che majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor and department editors. Commentaries. lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Obseiver. 
Viewpoint space is available tu all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact infor111ation. 
(.!,mtions regnrdi11g Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
DILBERT 
WE'LL BE OE5TR0'(1NG 
~NOTHER 1-\EA.LTl·{'t' COMPAN)' VIA A. 
PROC.E5S WE CALL 
MERGING. 


Changing minds, saving lives through kindness and respect 
Let me tell you a true story about something that happened a few days ago. 
It was described by Mikn Johnson, a lawyer in Baton Rouge and sent to me by one of his col­leagues. Mike .Johnson's account, which I quote with permission, is as fol­lows: 
"A remarkable event took place at our law office vester­day ... Last week, a woman called one of our senior part­ners, Tommv Benton, to schedu!n an appointment to discuss llw succes­sion of a large, family estate. Though Tommy had no immcdiatfl recollection ol' this woman, she reminded him that she was an old client of one of our lirm 's former asso­ciates more than 20 years ago, and thal she remembered Tommy as being a person whom her family could trust. I le thanked her for the kind gesture, and scheduled her for an appointment early this wePk. 
"Yesterday !Monday, i\pril 10th]. tho woman arrived al our oflice to discuss tlw necessary legal work. She was accompanied by her daughter, a bright, attractive 23-year-old, who sat in on and contributed to the routi,rn mer,ting. Tommy enjoyed making the rr,-acquain­tance with this old client of our ftrm, and particularly enjoyed the input and cheerful smile of the client's daughter. After the meeting, the woman and her daughtPr warmly thanked Tommy for his time and for agreeing to accept their case, and (pft our ollkc. 

NO ENGINEER.$ WIll Bt. DOWN­
SIZED AFTER 
THE MERGER. 

"/\bout an hour later, Tommy canrn into my onice with a rare, somewhat stunned expression on his f'ace. 'The most ... wonderful thing just happened,' he said. 'I just received a most remark­able phone call.' Less than an hour after she left their meeting, the woman had called Tommy to share with him a very moving story. 
did not go into the attack mode. Nor did he start a debate about abortion. Instead he treated lwr as a person, with kindness and concErn. I le was ready to help. Ile spoke tlw truth, with "compas­sion and mason." i\nd God took cam of the rnst. 
J\s Cardinal Edouard Gagnon 
d<iscribcd a conversation he had 

· "She explai1rnd that over 23 with Pope .John Paul II, "Ile years ago. she was agoniz­told me truth has a grace ing over a personal crisis. attached to it. Anytime we lfocausc her circum­
speak the truth ... there stances at tlrn limo is an internal gram or made her situation God that accompani<>s snem unlmarabh), she that truth. Tlw truth dncided to tnrminal<' may not irnmndiat<'ly her unwanted preg­
nntl'I" in tlrn mind nancv. When lwr 
and heart of' thosn f'emaln attonrny (our 
to -,,vhom we talk. former associatcl 
but tlw grace of God learned that the 
is tlwre and at tlw woman had sched­
time tlrny nel'd it, uled an abortion, slrn God will ;ipen tlrnir convinced tlrn woman !marl and tlwy will to make one anony­accept it." mous phone call to an MikP ,Johnson·s associate in her lirm who account rl'minds us that had lrncn 11xlensivcly tlm essential pro-lifn mis­involved in various Christian sion is to changP minds and pro-lire efforts in tlrn past. That hnarts with prayer and the 
associate was Tommy Benton. and Urn woman reported that it was becaus!\ or the compassion and mason that he shared in that call, that she ulti­mately dncided to keep her baby, tlrn grnatest blessing and joy of her life. 
"On the phonn yesterday, Tommy realized before tho woman finished her story that the beautiful young lady whom Im had just md was tlrn child that he had literallv talked into oxis­tencc over 23 ynars earlier." 
That is tlw encl of Mike Johnson's story. What can it tell us? When Tommy Benton took that anonymous call, he 
truth, and to savn lives one by onP. But the point of Mikn Johnson's story transcends abortion. i\s he summarized it: 
"The lesson? Be rnady. You never know when God might us<• you to change someone's life f'onwer." 
Something to think about. 
Proji,ssor Hice is on the Law School /acufly. I/is column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neees­sarily those of The Ofiseroer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Do not take life too seriously. You will never get out ofit alive." 
Elbert Hubbard author 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Tuesday, May 2, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
How to de-stress 
If you ani al all like mH, you are a liUle strung out right Hll\V. End of the yl\ar pro,iects and term pap1ws due the last day of' dassrs arr' building up. Finals, though not quitP uµon us, are certainly imminent. Tim knowledge that you lwve pr11parf'd !'or your history linal hy studiously not allending class and reliably never doing your reading should be rt\achin),{ your brain about now. E\'1!11 ifyou'rn a senior. vou still have lhal minimum amount of ;,_,ork to get donn lo graduatri, and most s1iniors have, as I have, put this all off as long as possible to hang about with friends. 
But harn faith, gnntln rnadcr. I have Utkon it upon myself' to fint.l a list of itthir(•sting and fun ways lo help relax. without ncc1~ssarily leaving campus and without taking up too much lime. 
lkacl childrl'n's books. I hit upon this on<• wlwn my 22-monlh-old brother Dnrwin canw to visit for the Blu<: and Gold game, bringing with him a copy of ''Mister Parrol llnlps You Lflarn Your Colors." Af'l.er three or four hours of "Human Gcnl'tics: A Molecular 1\pproach." Mister Parrot is damn amusing. I broke out my copy of the children's dassic "Hand, Hand, Fingers, Thumb" to keep him from tearing my room apart, and within seconds. I was thn one who was sitting quietly on the bed looking at thn pictures. If' you are not familiar with this story, there is no gnod way to accurately l\xplain its attraction, but it tells, in rhynrn, what cartoon monkeys can do with hands, fin­g<:rs, thumbs and musical instruments. As the climax approaches, you, Loo. gel caught up in the action: first. thiH·e arP just a few monkeys and a fow drums, then many morn monkr.ys. many morn drums, and, by the final pages of' thn book. there arn millions of fingers and millions of thumbs and millions or monkeys drumming on drums. You cannot lrnlp but laugh with glee at the pageful of monkeys. 
"Grnen Eggs and llam" and "Go Dog Go" are other favorites. You will spend days wandering around mum­bling, "I do not like them, S-,am-1-am." A good way lo de­slrt'SS your frinnds is to ask them, "An\ you my mother'?" tlwn look absoluhily dnspnndent and say, "But that was not tlw baby bird's motlwr, eitlrnr." They, too, wiil rPmember tlrn Laite of "Arc You My Mother?" This book also has the advantage that, when you compare the plight of the baby bird with your finals plight, that bird has way bigger prob­lmns than you do. !IP. thinks a bulldozer is his mother. You just think that Benzene is a chiral molecule! 
tr childrtm's books aren't your thing, you could do what column consultant Zacharv l lild!lbrand from Utah advises. "We hirks out west take our .22's and go find some goph1:rs," is an exact quotr) from this ambassador from the otlwr side of the Mississippi. Ile assured me that this does a lot lo rnlieVP strnss. although I'm not sure how destroying wildlife would mak11 you foe! better. On lhe other hand, I know some ducks that am asking for it. 
Another column consultant shared her wisdom: "J do math," said Suo Tregner. "Doing proofs relaxes me." With this kind of help, I w1\nt back to thinking up stress rdievers on my own. 
Play sports. Beat the crap out ol' someone else on the playing licld. Pound that soccer ball. Run till you are physi­cally incapabl,, of' caring about anything but stopping. It dews you good. Towards lhP <md of last semestflr I found mvself on a Co-Rec lnnertube Water Polo team. The far­th~•r along in the smnnster we wen,. the more vicious the ganws would gt•t. but the better we all fell at the final buzzer. My Co-Hee soccer team this semester played its gamns under a similar philosophy. The last game was intcnsP and downright gory at times. Sports are fun, and. t!XCt\pt !'or gelling kicked in the shins or gelling repeatedly dunked, thcy makn you feel better. 
Sing. Loudly and out loud, No one will care, unless your roommate is studying. Evcryonn understands it is finals lime and that the whole world is at the breaking point. So for thosn of vou who were in C1 around 2 a.m. last Wednesday rind lrnard two women singing along with Marc Anthony blasting from their car. the mystery of whal they wnrc doing is solved. Tlrny wprc letting go of strf'ss in a 

Kate Rowland 
Read This. It 
May Save 
Your Life 

positive mann<)r. The part vvht)re they started to dance is 
another mattPr t\ntirelv. 
My final suggestion: suck it up and get to work. There's 
no better way tu gt"L rid of' stress Lhan to eliminate the 
sln~ssnr. Writ1\ your paper, finish your prnsentation. prn­
parn for your exam, and your life will look a lot sunnier. 
/\lfor all, your life is pretty sunny already. You know who :your motlrnr is. 
Kate Rorl'!and is a senior who will graduate with a diplo­ma in 11ntonio Banderas studies. She will miss writing this column. She will miss all the people she doe:m 't know who 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
1 

Poor 'kept in place' by government, capitalism 
Amadou Diallo was shot 41 times hy tlrn New York City police for pulling a wallet out of his pock­et. Abner Louima was brutalized with a broomstick and suffered permammt injury due lo this same police department. In Los Angeles there is the ever-expanding Hampart scan­dal, where police planted drugs and guns on people to incrimi.nate them and even shot a hand­cuffed person in the hPad causing paralysis, and then helped send him to prison as a criminal. A few years ago in Philadelphia, there was a simi­lar police scan­dal. 
The U.S. media treat these incidents as aberrations with no real systemic cause, and even liberals and leftists maintain that all that is needed is civilian oversight. I disagree with both these viewpoints. 

The police in the U.S. serve the same purpose domestically as the military and the CIA does in foreign countries -to keep poor people in their proper place. For example, the CIA overthrew a government in Gauternala on behalf of the United Fruit Company and a government in Iran on behalf of American oil companies, eliminating govern­ments that were responsive to the needs of the poor. 
Public safety is a concern oi' the police dcpart­m1rnts, but it is only a secondary function. The pri­mary function of the police is to repress dissent. strikes, demonstrations and any organized threat 
to the existing property relationships in society. In other words, it is to pro­tect capitalism. At times the National Guard can serve lhis same function. On April 20, 1914, I.he Colorado National Guard opened fire 
with machine guns on a tent colony of strik­ing miners, killing men, 
women and chi!-· dren in what became known as 
the Ludlow Massacre. Corporate crime in 

terms of pollution, unsafe working condition, unsafe products and wars to protect their interests costs the country far 
more in lives and property loss than all the crime committed by poor people. Yet, how many corporate executives does one find in prison? 
If anyone doubts my analysis, just read "A People's History of the United States_" by Howard Zinn. The documentation is very extensive. 
Gary Sudborough Bellflower, CA April 17, 2000 

Senate comes through with funds for transfer students 
I'd just like to take a little time to thank the Student Senate. They did what I thought was unimaginable last night -they sacrificed their own funds in order to ensure a successful Transfer Orientation next year. Transferring in your college years can be rough. Many transfers arrive here not knowing anyone. Many do not have a room on campus because they have last priority for housing. You feel somewhat like a freshman all over again, but you're not. I can tell you from experience that this school does not feel like it is your own just because you are enrolled. The adjustment to this new environment can take time. 
This is why Transfer Orientation is so important. When mv cohort, Tim Lulich, and I were informed that our·budget had been cut in half this year we were distressed. We knew we had to appeal the budget, but in all honesty we thought no one would care. After all, we are "just transfer stu­dents." 
I must say that J was blown away at the Senate meeting. Numerous senators stood up to support us. They spoke of the importance of Transfer Orientation and of transfer students as a whole. President O'Donoghue got the ball rolling by · standing up and offering $500 from his own bud­get to give to us. As one of the senators said at the meeting, that is true leadership. There were a handful of senators who strongly supported us and to you I want to give special thanks. I only regret that I do not know your names in order to recog­nize you personally, but you know who you are ­thank you. 
Last night, the Student Senate sent a message to the transfers on campus that we are just as impor­tant as any other student. You do not know how much that means to us. I only wish that all the transfers on this campus could have been there to see it. On behalf of all of them I offer you our sin­cere thanks. 
Heather McDonald 
Junior McGlinn Hall April 20, 2000 

Seniori 
Viewpoint is accepting letters for the senior edition. Please send them to observer. view­point. l@Jid.edu labeled "senior week." 
read it and then <'-mnil her rheir thoughts on it. /1.nd she will miss the deadlines. Oh. wait, she does lhal now. The 11i<'WS expressed in lhis column arc those ofthe author and not necessarily !hose of The Obseri•er. 

ALBUM REVIEW 

Fatboy Slim takes trip down memory lane 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY Scene Mu.sk Critic 
Whcu asked in 1988 lo describe the music that hr wanted to make, the answer for Norman Cook was the kind that would get peoplP on the dam:P flour. 
''I'd like to make a rerord that will always get put on at parties," Cook saiti. 
As a musician and DJ. Norman Cook has known many faces. Cook is betler known by lhe moniker Fatboy Slim and is the man that brought you club favorites like "The Rockafeller Skank" and "Going Out of My Heau.·· Fatbuy Slim's 1998 album You've Come A Long Way Raby wt>nt platinum several times and was critically acclaimed as the party album of 1998 and 1999. 
"Collection" serves primarily as an anthology of the work Cook has dorrn over the past 15 years. The man who would hecomp. known around the world as f.atboy Slim spent the first few years of his musical career in several different British groups that enjoyed sucf'.ess -but not longevity. As the bassist for Disque ,\ttu.ck and then the Houscrnarlins from 1985 to 1987, Cook learned the tricks of the trade and finally returned to Brighton in the late '80s to start his disc-spinning days. Tho track "Payback," a trib­ute to the Godfather of Soul, James Brown, is tak1rn from these riarly at.iP.mpts and is one of the first ,·inyl albums Cook ever released. 

Overwhelmingly. the record provides great tracks which show the roots of nlcc­tronica. However, sinco most or the world had nev0r lrnard ol' Fatboy Slim heforo l 996, many of the styles Cook experiment­ed with -most notably dub and rnggae ­fall short of what wo would expt'Ct from the man who bas remixed for llrn fkastie Boys, A Tribe Called Quest and the Holling Stones. 
As a remixer under lhn collection of musicians known as Beats International, Cook produced a numlmr of tracks which pay homage to i-eggae music. "The Sun Doesn't Shine" from Beats International, "Start an Avalanche" from rapper Shinehearl and "Tribute to King Tubby" (a Jamaican pioneer of dub music killed in 1989) by Beats International all update Jamaican rhythms, but one is lel't wonder­ing whethei: Cook should have left these 
dull tracks alone to begin 

with. 

The rest of the album fol­lows a lot of' the sam c tricks that have made Fatbov Slirn's other albums so popu0lar. Big beats mixed with wonderfully obscure samples dominate the rest of the album. "The World is Made Up of This and That" 
by Deeds + Thoughts may be the most With remixes for A Tribe Culled Quest and other complex remix Cook has ever produced, pioneers of eleclronica on the record, this anthology is and he often includes it in his live shows. a must have for those who have followed ratboy Cook's Old Skool Mix of Wildchild's Slim's career with interest. It is an amazing trip down "Henegade Master" could be played to the memory lane and shows what a long way Fatboy Slim delight of everyone at a party or club. has really come. 
By EMMETT MALLOY 
Scene '.Vl usic Crim 
Poor Jimmy Page. The former Led Zeppelin guitarist and rock guru is just itching to play some Zep songs but none of his old bandmates are interest­ed. Although frontman Robert Plant was up for a mini-reunion a few years back, he now prefors playing English pubs with an oldies-blues cover band. Ex­bassist John Paul Jones -who was left out of the Page-Plant tour -is current­ly enjoying success with his debut album and first solo tour. So instead of singing the blues, Page has teamed up with the torchbearers of southern-fried boogie, The Black Crowes. 
Recorded last Oct. 18 and 19 at L.A.'s Greek Theatre, the double live album, Live u.t the Greek: Excess All Areas, ft'a­tures some of the bnst and rarest or the Zeppelin catalog, in addition to some old blues standards. Although some may regard the collaboration as a cheap shot at nostalgia. the pnrfor­mances on this album exceed all the expectations that any Zep fan would have of the project. The septet -fea­turing a keyboardist and two guilarists in addition to Page -actually succneds 


Norman Cook, better known as Fatboy Slim, revisits his past in his recent release. The Fatboy Slim/Norman Cook Collection is an anthology of Cook's work over the past 15 years. 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Zeppelin guitarist refuses to sing the blues 
in achieving 
Live At The Greek: 
the full effect or Zeppelin's 
Excess All Areas 
layered. com­plex sound ­
Jimmy Page and 
a task that 
The Black Crowes
not even Led Zeppelin itself could 
www.musicmaker.com 

accomplish in a live envi­
Rating

ronment. 


The Crowcs fully capture the mastcrv of Zeppelin·. 
with everything from the chaotic'. inter­lude of "Whole Lotta Love," to hard-dri­ving riffs or "Sick Again" to the bluesy jams of' "The Lemon Song." Much crndit should be given lo Crowes lead vocalist Chris Hobinson who manages lo strike a nice balance betwcnn Plant's and his own distinctivo stylo. Also deserving of mt~rit is bassist Sv011 Pipien who absolutely shines on the Zop classic "What Is And What Should Never Be." 
But this album !'natures some obscure covers that dcmonstralns tho strongth of tlrn camaradPrie hetwtwn Pagti and the Crowns. Hcaching way back into his past, Pagn leads the group on a cover of "Shape or Things To Come'' by his prc­Z11pµcli n band, Tim Yardbirds. Evnn mon• fascinating, the Jeff Beck (whom Page rcplacPd when he joined the band) rendition is covered. and the song is interestingly driven by some tough melal muscle instead of tho usual pop and psychedelia elements associated with the original. Covers of 1313 King's "Woke Up This Morning" and Willie Dixon's "You Shook ~c" explore Pago 

Former Led Zeppelin guitarist and rock icon Jimmy Page ( center) has released a double live album featuring his recent collaboration with The Black Crowes. The two CD set features some of the best and rarest of the Zeppelin's tunes and is only available at www.musicmaker.com. 

and the Crowes' rich blues inl1uences. 
The biggest shamn about this album is the lack of Crowcs mawrial. Dun to a clauso in tlrn band's record contract, tho Crowes wnrn forbidden from rnlcas­ing any of' their songs on thP album. Although performed in concert with Page on lead, such Crowes gems as "llard to Handin" and "Hnmedy" were not allowed to be included. 
Overall. considr\ring the lack of livn Zoppclin albums, Live at the Grenk: Excoss All Areas is perhaps tllf' best thing to have happmrnrl to ZnppPlin fans in a long time, and it demonstrates that Jimmy l'ag,1 has not lost his incrP<libl<i touch and ability. As for The Black Crowes, this collaboration shows how incrPdibly ndept tlw baud is al its craft. On() lirlal note: Live al the Greek: Excess All Areas is only available at www.musicmaker.com. At the Website, one may purchase the album as a download in Windows Media or as a double CD. The option of buying all the songs or just a fflw sfllectfld tracks is available with the CD. 
-----------~ 
( 


Tuesday May 2, 2000 page 11 
ALBUM COMPARISON 
Boy bands battle it out for fans' approval 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Scene· Music Critic 
For the fifth straight week, teon idols 'N Sync rntained the lop spot on tlw national music charts with thPir sophomorn album No Strings Attached. A similar phenomenon occurred last May when thfi Backstreet Boys· rclousnd their second album Millennium. Although both albums have quality pop songs, Millennium's overall variety makes it a much stronger album. 
'N Sync's first rcloasn off their new album. "Bye Bye Bye," is one of the album's h<•sl songs. It has cat<.:hy lyrics and a fun ben.t thn.t has proven to start 1rnoplc dancing at any SYR. Tlwir second release. "It's Gonna BP Mc." offrrs tlw same qualities -u fun. rianceable song. However. the two 
As much as people don't 

songs closely resem­few tracks later blP Pach otlrnr and want to admit it, "Digital Get Down" is thus leav<' the listen­
Backstreet and 'N Sync the worst song on No 

er longing for more Strings Attached. I'm a 
songs are instant hits at

varietv. huge fan of 'N Sync On tl1<' other hand. dances andjust singing but this is simply not a Barkstrnet's first along to them can good song -unless, of rolcasn. "I Want It course, you're into
improve your mood. 

That Way." differed cyber lovin'. Unlike considerably from "Digital Get Down," their second song, "Larger Than Life." none of the songs on Millennium have "I Want it That Way" gave listeners to be skipped. Millennium is complete­only a fow linos or lyrics to memorize Iv solid. The album has two ballads "I and this made it an instant hit, allow-Need You Tonight" and "Back to Your ing even the most inexperienced musi­cians to sing along. "Larger Than Life" was a tribute to Backstreet fans and brought back the tedrno-synthesized sounds which l\1illi-Vanilli and '.\Jew Kids 011 llrn Block made famous years ago. 
Backstreet's third release added even more varitlty to their first two songs. "Show MP tho Meaning of Being Lonely," is a ballad that emphasizes the pain of losing loved ones for vari­ous reason. "Show Me the Meaning'' is not the typical boy band ballad; I-love­you-so-much-please-rome-back-to-me. Rather, it expresses deeper feelings of rejection, loss and despair. 
Another strong hallarl is found on 'N Sync's No SLrings Attached. "This J promise You" is enough to make any girl tear up. "I've loved you forever/ in lifetime's before." Honestly girls ­
what line is sweeter 
than that'! However. a Heart'' which showi;ase the Boys· voic­es and prove to skeptics they ·r10 have talent. 


Both albums do include a "hardcore" track -or at least as hardcore as a boy band can be. Backstreet Boys' "Don't Want You Back" describes one of the band member's encounters with an ex-girlfriend who liked him for his fame and fortune and simply used him. But he's getting the last laugh: "Don't bother tellin' me your reasons why/ just let us sing a story about you and I/ I don't want you back." 'N Sync's song "It Makes Me Ill" illus­trates the same type of hardcore lyrics while describing an old flame's new love. lt says, "'Cause now I know the competition's very slim to none/ And I can tell by lookin' that he's not the one / He's not the type you said you like / his style is wack / clothes are bad I come on girl let him go / I want you back." That's enough to make you leave their women alone, huh guys? 
Overall. I'd recommend buying both albums. As much as people don't want to admit it, Backstreet and 'N Sync songs are instant hits at dances and just singing along to them can improve your mood. Backstreet does offer more variety, but both albums have hits that make them a must have for any CD collection. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
'High Fidelity' soundtrack has rare variety 
Br JOE LARSON Scene 11.fosic Critic 
I lave you nver tried to make a sound­track of your life'.' A collection of songs that tixplain exactly who you are when you madt• it'' I'm not talking about songs you lib, because they're funny or popular. but songs that del'ine you. (I hope tlw soundtrack of your lifo does not contain "Barbie Cir!" in German.) I mPan songs that simply convey a sPt of µarlicular Pmotions that make you rnnrnmb1~r meaningful feelings you've had during your life. I mean songs that stir vou inside. I mean music that takes vou "over and forcns vou to rernmnber those !\Vents of vour ·life which cannot lw described in" just words. They are the songs that eventually bncomc the emotions they convey. 
In "High Fidelity," John Cusack's character does just that. A record store owner whose break-up with his girl­friend causes him to reevaluate his entire life, Cusack journeys tu find out what is truly important to him. The movie takes place primarily in a rare records shop, which provides the per­fect backgr-ound for an incredibly pow­erful and original soundtrack. Cusack's character addresses all the people in his life with music at one time or anoth­er. and this soundtrack is his charac­ter's account of his life throughout the duration of the movie. 
After the break-up, Cusack's charac­ter reverts back to his former girl­friends and tries to figure out what led them to break up with him. During his attempt tu [igure out his previous short­
comings, the audi­ence is ){iven these songs which ampli­fv the character's 1;ain and suffering over the loss of' his girlfriend, whom he really loves. The soundtrack is amazing. Executivcly pro­duced by John Cusack, DV. DeVincenLis, Steve Pink and Katl1V Nelson, this sound·­track follows Cusack's charac­ter's plight. and ­ultimately -his revival. The sound­


track wonderfully

John Cusack's character in "High Fidelity" uses his vast 
conveys his true

music collection to create the soundtrack for his life ­
feelings thrnughout

and the movie. 
the course of the movie. 
This sound­track is an incredibly eclectic mix of b-sides and rare songs. [t has everything from 60s rock 'n' roll to a 90s hybrid of bass­backed punk. Each sung has its own original 

personality that makes it stand out on the disc. There are great break-up songs like the Thirteenth Floor Elevators' angry "You're Gonna Miss Me," Bob Dylan's sad "Most of the Time," John Wesley Harding's defeated 'Tm Wrong About Everything" and Smog's mellow "Cold BloodC'd Old Times." 
Thes11 songs are vvoven between more upbflat songs like tbe Kinks' "berybo<ly's Gonna Be Happy," lloya.l Trux·s "Inside Game" and Jar,k Hlack's cov1ir of tho ~1arvin Gaye classic ''Let's Get It On." There are two tracks from The Velvet Underground, a hrillirmt group who provides a sound that can only be said to resemble an extrmncly sad Boatles. The three best songs on the all.ium are "Always See Your Face" by Love, "Fallen Flor You" by Sheila 
'Nicholls and "I Believe" by Stevie Wonder. "Always See Your Face" is a drivC'n sung with a boautiful accompa­niment of horns reminding a lost lover that their relationship will not be for­gotten. "Fallen For You" is a desperate cry of a woman trying to get the atten­tion of her admired. It is a great story of a woman trying to figure out her 

unrequited love. Nicholls' voice is amazing, complemented by the piano behind her. 
Quite possibly the best song on the album is ''I Believe" by Stevie Wonder. A great song by Wonder, its strong lead and backing vocals force this song to stay in listen.ers heads for hours. It is a person's calling for real love in a world of hardship. This song seals tlw album and closes it on a positive note. The album takes the listener on a vrritable rollercoastor of emotions as it changes from upbeat to melancholy and from classic rock 'n· roll to Motown. 
The "High Fidelity" soundtrack is a perfect example of an album that exem­plifies emotion. It shifts its moods but it shifts in a realistic way that everyoirn has done before. which makes it more than lislenable. It makes il utterly pleasing. Plus. it gives the listener exposure to rare songs we probably would never have heard. It saves us the time of listening to quantities of old records looking for songs to express ourselves. It may even provide us with a few songs we could use for our own musical autobiographies, 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, May 2, 2000 
NHL 
Larionov, Fedorov lead Wings to first wing against Avs 
Associated Press 
The Detroit Hed \Viugs turned to their Hussian connection for new life in thc.ir second-round playoff series with the~ Colorado Avalanche. 
The Red Wings goL goals from Igor Larionov and SRrgei Fedoro\' on Monday night in a 3-1 victorv over the Avs. who eliminal!;d Detroit in the Western Conf'ercnce semifinals last season. 
Rrendan Shanahan also scored for the Hed Wings who lost the first two games ol' the series in Denver. 
Peter Forsberg scored for Colorado. which had won 14 of its previous 15 games. 
The best-of-seven series con­tinues with Game Four on Wednesday night at Joe Louis Arena. Game five will be Friday night in Denver. 
The first three goals came on power plays and Shanahan scored into an empty net with 40 seconds remaining. 
The Bed Wings. who had looked a tad old and a step slow during the first two games against the high-flying Avs, looked more like a team bent on reclaiming the Stanley Cup championship during the first period. Detroit outshot the Avs 36-23. 
The Avs had outshot their opponents in every playoff game this season. but the Red Wings had a 14-6 edge in shots during the first 20 minutes, flashing the speed and precision that made them the top-scoring team in the NHL during the.regular sea­son. 
And they also had the lead for the first time in this series. 
The !led Wings. scoreless in their first nine power plays or Urn series. took a 1-0 !Md on Larionov's first goal at 9::38 while Colorado forward '.'vlilan Hejduk was off for holding Tomas 1-lolmstrorn's stick. The goal was sM up by Nicklas Lidstrom who patiently glid,'d through the left cirdc with the puck before passing it to Martin Lapointe near tho left post. 
Lapointe tipped it to Larionov who had an opirn shot on the right side before C<'llorado goal­tendt~r Patrick Roy could rncov­Pr. 
Forsberg, who had scored the winning goal in three r,onsecu­tive playoff games, tied it 1-1 wiLh his fourth goal at 9:39 of the second while Larionov was off for holding. Forsberg, taking 
a. pass from Ray Bourque, sent a slap shot over Detroit goalie Chris Osgood's left shoulder. 
Fedorov's fourth goaL :{O scc­on ds aftrr Shjon Podein was sent off for tripping, gave Detroit a 2-l lead. Hoy, partially blocked by llolmstrom and Steve Yzerman. didn't appear to get a good look at the shot from the top of the lefl circle. 
The game was held up for about five minutes at 7:48 of the third period after Larionov was driven into the boards by Avs forward Serge Aubin. 
The Red Wings, who won con­secutive Cup titles in 1997 and 1998. have been eliminated from the playoffs the last three times they have fallen behind 2­0 in a series: in 1996 against Colorado. in 1995 against New Jersey (fourl and in 1992 against Chicago. 
The last time Detroit fell behind 2-0 and won a series was in the first round of the 
1992 playofls against '.\1inncsota in seven games. 
Devils 5, Maple Leafs 1 
If the Toronto Maple Leafs have hopes of ending their 3:{­year Stanley Cup drought. they better !ind a way to start beat­ing Martin Brudcur and the New J!·irsey Devils soon. 
Brodeur withstood Toronto's best period of' the sm·ics and went on to slop 22 shots in lead­i.ng the Devils to a victory. 
Jason Arnott, Scott Gomez. Patrik Elias, Petr Sykora and Alexander Mogilny scored as the Devils took a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven Eastern Confr.rnncc sr:mifinal series. Elias also had two assists as "Jew JP.rsey dominated f'or the third straight ganrn. 
New Jersey could easily have had a 3-0 lead if Curtis Joseph hadn't stolen the opening game with a 32-save performance in a 2-1 Toronto victory. 
The Maple Leafs, who gener­ated only a couple of' scoring chances in the opening two games at home, had seven out­standing chances in the opening 20 minutes with Brodeur stop­ping odd-man rushes by Wendel Clark, Igor Korolev and Dmitri Khristkh and some good close­in chances by Sergei Berezin and Adam Mair. 
Brodeur came within 4:17 of recording a second straight shutout before Kevyn Adams scored a short-handed goal. 
Mair picked up a four-minute high sticking penalty for cutting Devils defenseman Ken Danevko and it only took the Devils· 37 seconds to cash in. Sykora made a nice play getting the puck into the offensive zone and Arnott eventually tipped a Bobby Ilolik shot past Joseph from right in front of the crease at 9:42. 

Gomez, who was in danger of being benched for Game 2 despite his rookie of the year credentials. stretched the lead to 2-0 at 15:03. He beat Adams on a faceoff above the top of the circle, took a skate pass from 

Claude Lemieux and beat Joseph low to the glove side. Sykora put the game away at 
4:27 of the final period with a tap-in goal set up by Arnott and Elias. 
Mogilny closed out the scoring on a power play, putting the rebound of a Lemieux shot into an empty net. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.rn. ro 3 \i.rn. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.rn. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. · 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SUMMER INTERNS!  
WANTED: SUMMER SUBLEASE ­ Apt. for rent in Chicago's Lincoln  1988 Maza 323-126k, new clutch,  Study Days & Finals Week  Enrique is the only man for us.  
LOST & FOUND  grad student needs 1 or 2 bdrm 1 bath ale non-smoke.  Park area. Avail. July 1-Aug 31 (w/out opt to extend for 12 months).  parts, excel!. Cond. $1000 obo Call Chiara @ 232-6113  ...SPECIAL... 3.5 cents self-serve copies  CK-Maybe you should get Chubby  
Dan 4-3144  2 bdrm, 1 bath, kitchen w/new  3.5 cents self-serve copies  Rain a subscription to Maxim for  
LOST: blue warmup jacket. Left in  appliances, large dining rm, deck,  3.5 cents self-serve copies  Christmas.  
Lalun. Please call Eric at x-4606  Summer employment in Granger for  yard. On tree lined street 1.5 blocks  1978 MUSTANG,  From 5/1-5/12  Chubby Rain, thank you for the  
child care for 8 and 10 yr. old girls.  from el and bus.  65,000 MILES.  THE COPY SHOP  release of Enrique. We're glad the  
LOST: gold necklace with small  4 days a week, must have own  $1155/month. Call Amy 773-868­ RUNS GREAT.  Lafortune Student Center  situation was settled amicably and  
cross; lost 4/25; reward: please call  transportation. Looking for some­ 6064  $6999  We accept Domer Dollars too!  everyone came out unscathed.  
4-3706  one who wants to interact and play  CALL TREVOR  Call 631-COPY  
with the girls. Interested applicants  College Pk apt to sublet from 5124  Boocher... yeah he is pretty bad.  
should contact Amy Mailander 273­ to 8/1 very good condition, low  THE FINAL REGULAR issue of  
WANTED  1975. References antl resume to be supplied.  price. Call 243-0190  PERSONAL  THE OBSERVER is May 3rd.  Doobie Doobie Doo ...  
The commencement issue is May  Frasso ... congrats. Now we will stop  
Moving Away?  19th.  making fun of you ... no wait No we  
Summer Server Needed Flexible Hours. Great Pay  Help us furnish our house. Want to buy: couches, futons,  FOR SALE  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  I like family bonding.  won't  
Close to Campus  chairs, grill, patio furniture, TVNCR,  Eeyore, Piglet and Tigger -only a  
K's Grill & Pub 277-2527  dressers, desks, etc. in good condi·  EXTENDED store hours during  To the family members who went  couple from Pooh today.  
lion. Please e-mail avogel@nd.edu  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  finals week  running with me this weekend,  
Need child care in Granger home.  with orthopedic mattress set and  THANKS!  Mrs. Shanahan · you're hubby did  
15 hr/wk. Summer. Call Katie 271 ·  PAID INTERNET JNTERNSHIP:  detuxe frame. New, never used, still  Mon-Fri: 7:30am-Mid  Let's hear it for tag-team running  well tonight!! Lots of lovin' from you  
1935  Lead campus promotions for online  in plastic. $235 219-862-2082  Sat & Sun: 1 0:00am-Mid  this weekend  later???  
company  
RECSPORTS STUDENT SUPER­ 1-888-420-9800x319, or  Mazda 626LX '90, air, sunroof, 4-dr,  Room 450 would like to report that  Beautiful and More Beautiful in 115  
VISOR  adam@moneyformail.com  great cond. $3300  the raid of a certain room to reclaim  Holy Cross · love ya tons and have  
SUPERVISORS WORK AT LEAST  219-291-1927  A Enrique Iglesias CD was sue- a fantabulous day!!  
,c  15 HOURS PER WEEK, SPLIT­ cesstul. Although the two SMC  
TING THEIR TIME BETWEEN OFFICE HOURS AND ON-SITE  FOR RENT  MOVING SALE www.ncf.edu/-abailey/moving•  Need help with a project?  agents were authorized to use force, although he protested at first  Dave -my sternum still hurts. I'm gonna get you!!! • Merideth.  
SUPERVISION OF RECSPORTS  sale.html  Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING  Enrique's captor, Chubby Rain  
ACTIVITIES. EACH SUPERVISOR  RENTAL HOUSES FOR 4-6 STU  services are available al  handed the CD over peacefully and  Kendall -the moon is calling again.  
IS ASSIGNED TO VARIOUS  DENTS WITH LARGE ROOMS.  198 7 Black Saab 9000  THE COPY SHOP  no force was necessary. The  I hope you are packed and ready to  
INTRAMURAL SPORTS  W&D. 291-2209 DAVE  In great shape Need to sell!  LaFortune Student Center  Enrique CD was returned intact,  answer!  
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR AND  42300 · negotiable  Call 631-COPY  with all pictures of lhe Latino hottie  
IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ADMINIS·  HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 5-bed- Call Stacey: 634-2511  and the Cd unscratched. T!1e  Special K · ttie t,ealthy way to start  
TERfNG THESE ACTIVITIES  room, $1000/month 2) 2-bedroom.  women of 450 celebrated upon  the day -right Arch???  
FROM SIGN-UPS TO COMPLE­ $500/monlh. We'll make almost  Gibson LP  return by having a major dance  
TION. WEEKEND WORK IS  any changes to the house. Call Bill  234-6245  party with Enrique.  Lissy• Ralph loves you.I  
REQUIRED.  at675-0776  Fax rt last!  
Vintage Gibson ES-160. Aaron at 4­ Fax it fastt  Benny • now that you have an in  
COLLEGE PARK APT. FOR RENT  4235  Fax it fast!  CK· Oh yeah! Let's hear it for  with the band, can we get free  
PROFESSOR SEEKS SUMMER  JUNE AND JULY WILL PAY  Sending & Receiving  strong, capable women who can  tickets to away games???  
NANNY FOR ENERETIC 4·YR·  WATER BILLI W/D, CLEAN, GIRL  COMPLETE BEDROOM SET!  disassemble a loft and put up bunk  
OLD BOY. MUST LIKE HORSES  RENTED. 2B, 2B. CALL 243·2779.  Full size bed, 2 end tables, desk wl  beds In the timeframe of one hour.  Pokey -can I take over brownie  
AND HORSESHOWS. WEEK- overhead bookshelf, sm. Table  THE COPY SHOP  Mr. VanOverberghe may want to  smashing duties for you on  
ENDS. CALL PROF. MILLER AT  2BR, 2nd fir. Apt, 525/mo.  $350.00 9obo for ind. Items)  LaFortune Student Center  hire us next year CK. At lec!_st we  
631-4133 STIPENED PLUS  Along St Joe River Include.  Call Chiara @ 232·6113  Our Fax# (219) 631-3291  would have jobs after we graduate  Gumbi we are single-handedly  
EXPENSES.  Water/Sec. Syst.rrrash 288-Z654  next year.  taking down Scholastic!  

Tuesday, May 2, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Seniors 
You can still purchase tickets for Senior Week! Come to 216 LaFortune Tuesday 6-8p.m. or Thursday 3-5p.m. Purchase T-Shirts too! Class Dinner @ Alumni Senior Club on Wednesday! Check your E-Mail for further updates on Sr. Week. 
Questions? Contact Julie Reising 
@ 1-5117 
or Andrea Selak 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Sox ace predicts no suspension by MLB 
Associated Press 
Pedro Martinez doesn't think he should be suspended for hitting Roberto Alomar with a pitch. After all, Martinez says. he vvas only doing his job. 
"They shouldn't suspnnd me," he said Monday. "I didn't fight. I didn't do anything. I do what I have to do for my team." 
No disdplinary action has been taken since a brushback pitch by Martinez sent Cleveland's Einar Diaz sprawl­ing in the seventh inning of Boston's 2-1 win Sunday. 
In the top of the eighth. Charles Nagy hit Jose Offerman in the side with a pitch. As Offerman took a few steps toward the mound. the Red Sox and Indians ran onto the field from the dugouts and bullpens. Then, in the bottom of the inning, Martinez's tirst pitch struck Alomar in the backside. 
Again, the benr,hes emptied. Again, no punches were thrown. 
But Martinez was thrown out uf the game. 
'Tm going to do what I've been doing. I'm not going to change a thing," he said about protecting his teammates. 
Martinez said he doesn't expect to hear from Frank Robinson. baseball's vice pres­idont of on-field operations. 
"There's no discipline to be issued. There's nothing. There's no fight," Martinez said. "This is all part of the game." 
Diaz had doubled twice off MartinAz. So the pitchp,r want­ed to back him off the plate. It worked so well that Diaz ended up striking out. He and Martinez glared at each other as he returned to the bench. 
"He's a catcher. He knows what's going to happen," Martinez said. "He should just tak,~ his place and understand he's going to be pitr.hcd iflside after he gets two (hits) on two changeups away. He has to expect to be pitched inside." 
After Offerman was hit. Martinez stayed in the Boston dugout until Cleveland's Scott Kamieniecki pointed at him. Martinez didn't apologize for not coming out before then. 
"I thought everyone in the stadium saw how much guts he has by throwing at a guy's head and then staying in the dugout," Kamieniecki said. 
"I understand what I need to do," Martinez said. "I had told (Offerman) not to go out (to the mound) if you get hit." 
And he didn ·t apologize fur hitting Alomar. 
''I'll back up my teammates any time I have to," Martinez said. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, May 2, 2000 
CLUB SPORTS 
Irish rowing skims past Huskies 
Special to the Observer 
The men's rowing club com­
peted in the Big East 
Championships in Washington 
DC this weekend. 
The best showing by the 
dub was in the novice four, 
which placed second to 
Temple. just ahead of 
Connectieut and Virginia 
Tech. 
The varsity eight had a 
shaky morning start and fin­
ished fourth in their heat. 
The boat rebounded in the 

afternoon to plare serond in 
the petite finals, and sixth 
overall. 
After finals, the rlub will 
travel to Worcester, Mass. to 
compete one last time this 
season. 
The men's varsity eight won 
the silver medal in the most 
prestigious race at last week's 
Midwest Rowing 
Championships hold in 
Madison, Wisc. 
Only Wisconsin. a varsity 
LPam of national recognition 
crossed the finish ahead of' the 
Irish. 
Left in the wake of' coxain 
l\lolly Kleinheinze, stroke 
Sharbil Nammour. John 
Hagan. Chris Szzzefc, Sam 
Wang, Ken Traugoot, Ed 
Bowers, Jack Connor and 
bowman Ryan Carlson were 
Northwestern, Chicago, 
Michigan State, Nebraska. and 
Cincinatti. 
The second varsity eight 
capturpd the Bronze medal, 
again losing only to two boats 
from \'\'isr,onsin. 
The novice eight A boat fin­
ished firth among 14 boats. 
Ultimate 
Thfl men's ultimate team may have played itself' into the national tournament with an inspired seven game perfor­mance at the regionals. 
The Irish r,ruised through their first five games. 
After defeating Denison 15-:3 and Ohio University 15-6 in the opening rounds, t.hc club defeated a strong Oberlin squad in tho quarterfinals, 15­12, and pr.rennial power Illinois, 15-8 in the semifinals. 
The Irish then stumblcd against Michigan in the l'inals, 15-10. before rebounding to crush Oberlin, winners of the losers bracket, 15-8, to claim second in tho tournament. 
Jim Fleming led the Irish in sroring throughout tlie week­end, catching 20 points. 
Patrick McCorry's spPi>d out­distanced all his dr.f'cnders and was rrspo nsibln for Cou r layout Ifs. 
The women's ultimatr, team enjoys an equally good chance of reaching tlw nationals after an outstanding weekend of' play. En Le ring the regionals as the fourth seed, the women also finished second in the ev1-1nt. 
Mia Stephen, Monica Kerchner and Lara Pozorski led the team to an opening round 11-4 trouncing of Ohio Statfl to set. the stage !'or a rematch with Northwestern in the ser.ond round. The Irish avenged their 6 -point loss to the Wildcats two weeks ago. with a 13-7 victory. 

CORRECTION 
The statistics in Mondav's Observer for tl1<1 Blue and Gold ganw werr incorrect. The following arr tlrn correct statistics. 
pnssing 
Arnaz Batlle 10-23-0-117 
Gary Godsey 12-23-1-148 
rnshing 
Tony Fisher 4-18 avg. 4.8, Julius Jones 5-19 avg. 3.8, Chris Yupa 11-46 avg. 4.2 
receit•ing 
Joey Getheral 6-63, Jay Johson 12-46, Mike McNalr 2-16 
The Observer regrets the error. 
SUMMER WORK 

Vector Marketing Corporation is again filling summer positions throughout the U.S. 
$13.55 base-appt. 
Great resume experience Customer service and sales Scholarships available Conditions apply Call office nearest to summer location 

South Bend (219) 282-2357  Muncie (765) 289-7345  
Goshen (219) 875-8843  N. Indianapolis (317) 575-9600  
Fort Wayne (219) 471-ij113  SW Indianapolis (317) 248-1300  
Merrillville (219) 769-2352  Bloomington (812) 477-9274  
Kalamazoo (616) 349-8146  Terre Haute (812) 298-8555  
Kokomo (765) 453-1664  Evansville (812) 477-9274  
Lafayette (765) 420-0507  Jeffersonville (812) 284-5310  

www.workforstudents.com/BT 

Game honors went to Angela 
Bauer and Jenny We!lman. 

A third round 13-6 win over Ohio was highlighted by Carolyn Sr,ully's layout D's and Carolyn Grimes bucks. 
Sunday was also payback day, as the Irish defeated Purdue B-6. 
Purdue had claimed Noirn Dame's Whitesmokc champi­onship last month. 
Coming up short in the l'inals against Illinois, Michigan blockou the possible path to the nationals with the playoff for second ranking. 
Led by Ali llndrick. Laurnn Cangelcsi, and Megan Kovac. the club pasttHl the Wolverines, 15-5, keeping hopes aliv<1. 
Field Hockey 

The lield hockPy club swept a pair of games u.t Wheaton College this wc<1kond. 
Kevin Kuhn's two goals led the scoring in the opening game 4-0 victorv over Wheaton. · 
Liza Naticchia and Lindsay Goodwin also found the back of' the net for thc Irish. 

Goals by Jarrnlle Tranquillo on a penally stroke, Lindsay Goodwin and Laura Antkowiak par,ed the ·c1ub Lo a 3-2 win over Chicago. 
Laura Antkowiak's bard work was rewarded as thP graduating senior sr.ornd her l'irsl canrnr goal, the game winner, in her final game. 
Gregg Nielsen stepped into goal for the first timo this sea­son and produced S!lveral highlight reel saves. 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Warner signs with Irish for fall season 
Special to The Observer 

1ligh school senior Amy Warner has signed a nation,;! lettcr of intent to attend Notre Dame. women's socccr head coach Handy Waldrum announced. 
Warner comes to Notre Dame l'rom La Cueva High Sr.hool in Albuquerque, N.M. She joins Amanda Guertin, Handi Scheller and Melissa Tancredi to comprise Notre Dame's Class of 2004. Warner was a two-time, first-team all­state forward at La Cueva I ligh School, leading the statn in scoring as a senior with 33 goals and 26 assists. She also had the most assists as a junior with 18 and was third in goals with 27. 
She helped lrnr high school win slate championships in 1998 with a 19-3-0 record and in 1997 with a 23-0-0 rlleoru whf'n the team was ranked third nationally. The Albuquerque native also has bern a standout on the high school track team, competing in the lO0 and 200 meters. 
"Arny is a tremendous ath­lete," said Waldrum. "She has excelli~d not only in her soccer environment. but as a track athlet!l as well. We are very Pxcitf'd about the sperd and athleticism she will be bring­ing to our program, as .,,ell as her goal-scoring abilities." 

Admissions Calendar 2000-01 June 15 Last day to apply for Fall 2000 May 19 First day of Summer Sessions July 18 Last clay of Summer Sessions August 28 First day of Fall Session For further information, visi1 our Web p<.t!s<'. 
LOYOLA 
M.S.W. Admissions: Jude Gonzales 

~ •·,~ UNIVERSITY
i s" CHICAGO 
at 312.915.7289
i!:. 

o1~ .~ Graduate School ¼. ~ ofSocial Work 
E-mail: jgonza@luc.edu 

Oeliu-el"11f Tiuf}:_+t Pizza/ fB@[l~ ~[b@ @O@@fil TI1rn@~~[l>JgH  
Anytime Anytime -~­you call between you call between 2 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 9 9 the price of your the price of your 2 large 1 large :1 topping 6 topping pizzaspizza is the time you ca1I.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r---------------,Lunch Special 1 1 I Small 1 Topping I ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5 99 I •L ______.:., ______.J North Village Mall271-11.77 271-PAPA  

TuesJay, May 2, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMEN T page 15 



page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, May 2, 2000 
Notre DaIDe grads score big in Hall of Fallle inductions 
. Dove to be inducted to College Football Hall of Fame 
Special to the Obscn,er 
Notre Oame two-time consen­sus football All-American Bob Dove is one of 14 individuals selected for induction LO the National Football Foundati.on's College !foll of Fame for 2000. 
Dovf' is onA of 14 players and two coar-hes who will be officially inducted at the National Football Foundation's 43rd annual award dinner on Dec 12, 2000, in New York City 
The class will then be 

enshrined at the College Hall of 
Fame in South Bond in August, 
2001. Dove becomes the 38th for­
mer Notre Dame playPr inducted. 
Notre Dame boasts more hall of 

famers than any other school. 
including five coachr-s 
A three-year starter at end in 1940-42. OovP played on Frnnk Leativ·s first two teams at Notre llam\.,, and bcr.ame the first sophomore to start for thn Irish in 
11 seasons. 
As a freshman in 1939, he caught 15 passes for 187 yards from future llcisman Trophy win­ner Angolo Bertel!i. 
He recrived the Knute Rockne Memorial Trophy in 1942 as the top collegiate lineman in the country and also played in the East-Wesl Shrine All-Star game. 
He was a serond-team sPlcctinn on Street & Smith's All-Time Dream Team for the first 50 years of its publication from 
1941-90. 
A third-round draft pirk by th,) Washington Redskins. tlw Youngstown. Ohio. nativP spent three years in the Y!arine Corps. 
I-le played ninii seasons for sev­eral professional teams, earning Pro Bowl re(:ognition in 1951. 
HP served as an assistant r.oar:h from 1969 through l lJ86 for the Detroit Lions and Buffalo Bills and for tho University of Detroit and Youngstown State. 
f-!P. r,urrnntly resides in Canlielcl. Ohio. 
l}ovc ber.ame th11 first player c.hosen by the llall of Fame's Honors Review Committee. which ronsiders players who played more than 50 years ago. 
2000 


}College Hall of Fame Inductees 
Players 
Bob Dove ND Marcus Allen USC Kurt Burris Oklahoma Dan Dierdorf Michigan John Elway Stanford Michael Haynes Arizona State Terry Hoage Georgia Stan Jones Maryland Johnny Musso Alabama Johnny Rogers Nebraska Joe Schmidt Pittsburgh Harley Sewell Texas Billy Ray Smith Arkansas Eddie Talboom Wyoming 
Coaches 
Terry Donahue UCLA 
Forest Evashevski Hamilton, Washington State, Iowa 
. DeBartolo to present Montana at Pro-Football Hall of Fame 
Associated Press 
Joe Montana selected the former owner of the San Francisco 49crs as his presenter for induction into the Pro Foot.ball llall of Fame. while Pittsburgh Steel1irs owner D,rn Hooney r.hose one of his star players to introduce him. 
Bonnie Lott will be introduced by his father whi!ti Ilowie Long and Davr~ Wilcox will be rcprcst>nted by their former position r,oar,hes. 
The inductions will take place July 29 on the front steps of tlrn Pro Football Hall or Fame. 
Montana picked Edward J. DcBartolo Jr., whilo Roonoy pirkml former Stoelers great Joe Greene. 
Lott bocomes onlv the sncond out of 204 indudPos to b<' prt'snntod by a parent. 
Former Oakland df'ft>nsivr, linP r,oach Earl Lnggdt, who urg<'d that the Haiders takn Long in tlw d ran, will present him. Wilcox will bP introdur:ed by Mike Giddings, his former Jinn (:oach with tlw 49Prs. 
LOW 
student 
Airfares 
Europe •Africa Asia •South America 
More Than 100 Departure Cities! 
Eurailpasses Bus Passes Study Abroad 
C student
I =• universe
•Ollll 
IT"S YOUR WORLD_ EXPLORE IT_ 
StudentUniverse.com 
800-272-9676 

Rustic elegance This is not an oxymoron. Wildflower has it all! Log & stone homes. Cathedral ceilings, stone fireplaces, decks overlooking the St. Joe River and Orchard Hills Golf Course. Starting under $200,000. 1 1/2 hours from the loop. A great location just 20 minutes from N.D. campus. 
616.695.6043 
Northern Lights, Inc. Broker. 
Contact: 
WILDFLOWER DEVELOPMENT 3035 NILES-BUCHANAN ROAD BUCHANAN, Ml 49107 
WILDFLOWER 
.,~ 


Graduating colleg~ seniors get an extra $400 cash allowance toward the purchase ofanew Dodge vehicle: 
2000 Dodge Dakota 
$750 cash allowance** plus $400 college graduate allowance 

2000 DodgeNeon 
$],500 cash allowance plus ~ $400 college graduate allowance 

2000 Dodge Stratus 
$],250 cash allowance plus $400 college graduate allowance 

Dodge~Different. 
SeeThe FriendlyDodge Dealer NearYou 
*Ask for eligihility requirements. Not availahle with certain other offers. **For select Regular Cah Dakota~ (V-6 &V-8). 
Tuesday, May 2, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SOFTBALL 
Myers, Sharron receive Big East honors 

Special to The Observer 
/\fter leading 19th-ranked Notre Dame to its fifth slraighl Big East regular s1iason softball title and the top seed at this weekend's r:ouf.'ercnce tournament, sophomore r.atr:lwr .larrah Mvers and junior pitcher J1;11,1il'P.r Sharron both l\arncd Big riast wet>kly hon­ors. 
My<'rs named hPr second nod as Big East Plnyer or the Week, wbilf\ Sharron won lwr third 13ig East Pitcher of the Week award, sharing thfl honor with Villanova pitrher Keri Stoller. 
Mvers Jeri the Irish on offense, by hitting .474 (9­for-19) in six games includ­ing 1-ix runs scored, a double. three home runs and a team­best eighl l{BI. She also hit a team high .615 18-t'or-13) in Big East games against Seton Hall and St John's. witb a "1.385 slugging per­centage. 
Mvers' week was highlight­ed bv a two home run pcr­formirnce in Notrr1 Dame·s 6­2 win over Seton Hall, tying her for lhe team lead with 10 
BRUNO'S 
STUDENT DINNER BUFFET 
Pizza, Pasta, Salad, and other Italian Dishes 
2610 Prairie Ave. Location 
288-3320 
*Accepting reservations for* GRADUATION 


ities school rncord) in 2000. Myers· two homo runs also lifted the !ris h to a lolal of 31 for the season, breaking the previous school record of 29 set bv the 1999 squad. 
Sharron. a leading r,andi­datc for r,onfcrence. Pitcher of the Year honors. went 3-0 in thrne appearanr,es last week with a 0.33 P-arncd-run average. She allowed just one earned run, walked three and struck out 30 in 21 innings pitrhed. 
Against 22nd-ranked Illinois-Chicago, Sharron pitched a romplPte-game shutouL, striking out 11 and allowing Just one base runner to advance to third base. Sharron tal­li cd her second 11 ­strikeout performance of the week Sunday, pitching a three-hitter against host Seton Hall. The Notre Dame soft­ball team will be back 
Photo courtesy of Sports Information 
in action this Friday, 

Sophomore catcher Jarrah Myers was
May 5, at thfl Hig East championships in named Big East player of the week 
Chestnut Hill. l\Iass. for the second time of the season. 
NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 

SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 

Softball 
continued from page 20 
1.kular Jarrah Myers who hit the ball hard everywhere," Miller said. 
Notre Dame continued week end play and secured the title with two wins over Seton Hall. 
Myers led Notre Dame offon­sively with two homeruns in game one as the Irish won 6-2. Myers tied Alkire with 10 homc­runs this year for the school record. Notre Dame also top its previous mark of 29 homers in a season as the Irish now stand at 31. 
Sharron struck out 11 and allowed only three hits to earn her 23rd win Loman singled to deep left in the first to drive in two runs before Myers blasted her first homPrun of the game to put Notre Dame 4-0. 
Myers hit her second homer in the fourth inning before the Pirates rallied to score lwo in thfl fifth. Madrid singled in the seventh before scoring the final Irish run on a double by Kriflch. 
Moschel struck out sevfln in game two with a perfect game going into the seventh before a Pirate homerun put a stop to her no-hitter. 
The Irish are currently on an ei.ght-game winning streak with wins over Pittsburgh, Illinois­Chicago, St. John's and Seton Hall. 
Notre Dame will face Boston College '.vray 5 in Chestnut Hill, Mass. in the first game of the Big East tournament. 
W.,t -1 ~~ 1~\i wttn -1 ~t~ta~t~p~ 
Zoomculture,com 
i~ hiril'I!! :f-ielJ rep~ te t'lpture 

~tuJe.l'lt 1,fe <>l'I vl.lee,, .el'I t'lmpu, 

apply at: 

www.zoomculture.com/intemship 
:IJ

·LOW : iSTUDENT; &r ~ !AIRFARESI 
0 E I i 
.c 
~ 
~ Europe •Africa •Asia •South America s::: t More Than 100 Departure Cities! I £Eurailpasses •Bus Passes •Study Abroad ( 
] s::: 
~ z ~ 

,rs YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT. 



www.StudentUniverse.com 
j 
:::, E aJ 800-272-9676 CJ 
page 18 The Obsemer . SPORTS Tuesday, May 2, 2000 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Lax players extend win streak to 6, beat Crimson 
By STEVE KEPPEL Sporn Writer 
The 12th ranked Notre Dame :\frn's lacrosse recordPd their sixth straight win Sunday, defeating Harvard 11-10. The win puts the Irish at 9-3 giving them their first nirn~-win season sincP the 1997 campaign. 
Arter b(•ing down 5-4 at tl1e half. the Irish let up anothr>r three quick goals in the third period. Behind by foLtr with sevirn minutPs lPft in the third, the Irish rallied behind the solid play of their offense and scored seven straight goals giving them the 11-8 lead and icing the game. 
"On the whole we didn't play 
poorly, we just didn't make some 
plays early in the game and their 
goalie is Vf)ry good," said C:oarh 
Kevin Corrigan. 
··1n the first half we didn'L play 
too well. They got a couple of 
cheap goals." said ,iunior Tom 
GaHzel, who had four goals on 
the dav. "I think we really domi­
nated· thP sPCond half of the 
game. We had a nir.e run where 
we scored seven goals in a row 
and that put them in a hole that 
they couldn't get out of." 
Tom Glatzel started the second 
half run, scoring four of the 
seven unanswered goals in the 
third quarter. Dave Ulrich joined 
the attack with five assists. Jon 
Harvey added a goal. The start­
ing attack for the Irish accounted 
for a total of 10 points Sunday. 
..This year's team is a little 
more balanced offensively. We 
have a lot of guys who can 
score," said Glatzel. 
The high expectations of the team fell early in the season, starting off at 3-3 
"We were extremely disap­pointed to be 3-3 early in the year. We didn't foe] like that was reflective of our ability," said Corrigan. 
"In the beginning of the season we had a couple of tough losses and W!' kind of' lost a litlle hit of' our confidence," said Galtzel. The Irish improved their play, ending the regular season with a 9-~ rernrd. 
"On the whole this year. I think we have got a young team that has dPveloprd very wrll," said Corrigan. "We can't help but pleased that we came back and won six in a row and finished up as strongly as we did." 
After playing well and winning their last sh games the Trish have picked up an added confi­dence that should help them to do well in the tournarmmt. 
"H was after the Loyola game that we really turned things around," said Glatzel. "Since then we have really been playing well as a team. [The Harvard gameJ was a pretty big win fur us because going into the tour­na ment we wanted a lot of momentum. Right now we feel that we can beat whoever we're paired up against." 
The lrish have a week off before finding out who they will play in the tournament and where they will be seeded. This trip to the NCAA's marks the eighth time in the las~ nine years that a Notre Dame lacrosse team has made it to the post-season. 


LIZ LANGfThe Observer 

Sophomore midfielder Chad DeBolt defends against Villanova's attack on April 19. The Irish beat the Crimson Sunday, despite allowing 10 goals in the game. This gives the Notre Dame lacrosse team their first nine-win season since 1997. 

•
en1or last Class Dinner 


· pizza/ subs/ and wings · · Trivia & prizes· 
When: Wed, May 3, 2000 5-7pm Where: Alumni-Senior Club Cost: $2 • Bring your ID 


k?~~ 
The Office of Recreational Sports would like to thank all those who Rectors made this past year a success. Joyce Center Ice Rink 
N.D. Security 
Athletic Grounds Crew The Observer Athletic Commisioners 
N.D. 
Golf Course RecServices Course Instructors Rockne Memorial 


Joyce Center Rolfs Aquatic Center 
Intramural Officials Loftus Sports Center 
THANKS 

Aerobic Instructors Issue Room Workers 
Student Supervisors First Aid Personnel Medical Services 
EMT's 


Tuesday, May 2, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
\\E. C.OO'tl ll£.WS W\\'I' M~E 
\$ Wt oo~'T '(ov ~'€ 10 woR LOIN6 FIR£. 

Fox TROT 
THEY SAY YoU'RE NOT SUPPOSED To SHoP ON AN EMPTY STOMACH. 
I 
0THERW1SE YOU Go CRAZY AND SUY WAY Too MUCH fooD. 
I 

BILL AMEND 
C,ooD THING WE HA[) THOSE. SANDWICHES I'LL PUT BE.FoRE WE CAME. THIS C:ART 
I WITH OUR / oTHE.RS. 
lt's amazing what happens to attendance when the syllabus says "final review." 
beam.1@nd.edu 
..;.+~,;..+-:--1 26 Welby and Leppard-Kildare: Abbr. 43 The contiguous 29 Not gregarious 48 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


44 Dirty 52 Beyond's partner
45 Oddballs may draw them 

54 "Desire Under 46 Zodiac fishes the 
47 "Ten-hut!" 

55 Cereal grasses
undoer 50 Talia of "Rocky" 56 Toward the tiller 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Bianca Jagger, Larry Gatlin, Bing Crosby, Lesley Gore, William Hutt 
Happy Birthday: Put your best foot forward this year. You can get ahead, but only if you are consistent in your actions. You may face some unexpected changes in your life, but if you are ready to take on the world, these minor events will make you even more determined to reach your goals. Your numbers: 5, 18, 23, 31, 38,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You are probably overtired and disgrun­tled about everything. It would be best to get involved in individual sports; however, keep in mind that you are accident-prone. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take action and make those changes you've been talking about. If you im­prove your surroundings, your atti­tude will improve as well. Do as much of the work as you can yourself. 
000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll have plenty of romantic opportuni­ties. Get out and enjoy the compli­ments. You have style, and the changes you've made to your ap­pearance will be gratifying. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let your secrets out of the bag. Be careful when talking to those who might want to see you look bad. Col­leagues may be jealous of your ac­complislunents. Be nice to everyone. 
00 

LEO {July 23-Aug. 22): Take the leadership role in group or organiza­tional functions. Your ability to ini­tiate new projects and spark enthu­siasm in others will be an asset. 
00000 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): :Make 
Birthday Baby: You've got charm, charisma and enough stamina to out­last any opponent you face. You will use your creative imagination to find your way ilirough life. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
© 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 

FJie-,;-. 
11 -lJ,n
co-OJ ece1:,r<a 
'llie/Ji eci 'O Fq
S ~ o_,.:} .Ere 'IJ8 
...
•Jo "-<(J~ e 
llc1~ ep_·
~tlcy 1-01 
EUGENIA LAST 
changes to your residence. Real estate deals or any project that will enhance your home and raise its value will be to your benefit. There will be lots of activity going on around you. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your personal situation will not be too clear. Your household will be disrup­tive. Try to do things with positive individuals who will help you sort out your thoughts and help you turn things around. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Con­centrate on getting your work fin­ished. You may feel somewhat under the weather. Plan to take it easy rather than burning the candle at both ends. You have to start pacing yourself better. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Travel for business or pleasure will lead to new connections. Don't be afraid to make career changes or start your own business. You're in the driver's seat, so start moving. 
00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Expect tension in your personal en­counters. You will have to keep the peace by making sure that you pull your own weight. Don't take advan­tage of your mate. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Pleasure trips will be entertaining and educational. You will experience new cultures that will enlighten you and make you surer of yourself. Apply what you learn to your every­day life. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Don't put off what you can accom­plish today. You will have difficulty putting your financial picture into perspective. Be careful not to spend money you don't have. 000 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Current units 5 Many comedy teams 
9 Squirrel away 14 Some is junk 15 Archer of 
"Patriot Games" 16 Marseille menu 17 Collection in Old 
Icelandic 18 Carpe _ 19 'The 
Incident'' (1943 Fonda film) 20 Assume what's being asked 23 Parting word 24 Not happy 25 Flushed 27 Trinity member 28 Ginnie 30 Mystery writer Josephine 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
31 Mr. Potato Head part 32 Early Microsoft offering 33 "A mouse!" 34 Captures 
35 Wake sleeping dogs,soto speak 
39 Jones's locker 40 NASDAQ listings: Abbr. 41 Speakers' pause fillers 42 Ending with methyl 43 Round Table title 44 Indy 500 logo 45 Place to take a cure 48 Cone bearer 49 Italian poet Torquato _ 
51 Suffer a loss, slangily 53 Get closer to 
home, in a way 56 Not level 57 like service 
station rags 58 Black-and-white 
hunter 59 fatale 60 At liberty 61 Victory signs 62 Long lock 63 A.T.F. agents 64 To be, to 
Tiberius 
DOWN 1 One-celled 
pond dwellers 2 Got by 3 Hardly the 
Queen's English 4 List of candidates 5 Miami­County­6 More than 
unusual 7 Get the better of 8 Academic term 9 Shipmate of 
Bones and 
Spock 10 Downtown cruiser 
11 Like sloths and 
tree toads 12 Alley Oop's time 13 Chop down 21 Sitcom material 22 Search for 
Puzzle by Nick Grivas 
32 Like some martinis 33 Sci-fi visitors 34 Air rifle ammo 35 Item that may be slid down 36 Paycheck booster 37 Least fortunate 38 Called balls ancJ strikes 39 Rock's 



Streaking 
The Irish lacrosse team extended its win streak to six games and has its hesl record since the 1997 season.
PORTS 
page 18 

page 20 
Tuesday, May 2, 2000 
SOFTBALL 
Homers help clinch Big East title for Irish sluggers 

Notre Dame's softball team was led by both solid offensive production and strong pitching against St. John's and Seton Hall this weekend. The Irish now hold the top seed heading into the Big East tournament. 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
:-.puns Writer 
Notrn Dame suf"tball ama..-;sod !'our wins this wrt~kPnd to clinch its liflh-sLraight Big East rrgu­lar season title. 
The 19th-rankPd Irish, now 43-12 overall and 12-2 in Lh<~ conforencP-, defeated both St. John"s and Seton Hall twire as lhcy earned the top sPt-\d l'or mixt week's Big East tourna­
ment. 
"I thought we did a good job of working togf':ther. We had team goals instead or individual goals," said sophomore Michelle Moschel. "We leanrnd l"rom our lossr,s to grow togethfff towards our goals. Wr, did a good job of lighting back and staying in it even with losses wr, shouldn't havo lost Plus, as a young tnam we worked hard not to ict br.ing a young team be an r,xcuse for us." 
Improving to 6-6 after a :1-13 Big East finish last season, St. John's showed the most improvement thniughout lhi. conference. But improvement wasn't enough to stop the Irish. 
Junior Jennifer Sharron earned her 22nd win with eight strikAouts as Notre Dame won game one, 7-2. 
"I lhink our pitrhing staff did an excellent job this WPek1•nd. Jenn Sharron and Michello Moschel threw vorv well the entire weekend," h·nad coach Liz Miikr said. 
With the game scoreless in tlrn fourth. junior .larrah Myers hit a homerun to drive in two runs while Dani1-1!1e Klayman doublnd bef'ore scoring on ·a sin­gle by freshman Alexis Madrid. 
St. John's struck back in the bottom of the inning with a run. 
Junior Melanie Alkire slammed her 10th homerun of th<' sPason in thP seventh to match her career high as wdl as the school record. Myers and Klaymnn both singled to com­bine to drive in three runs to closr thr Irish seoring. 
St. John's scornd onr run in tho seventh. 
But tlrn Irish refused to let thr Bed Storm have the last word as they shutout SL John's 5-0 in game two and tied another school record with their 21st shutout of the year. 
Moschel rarned the Irish win as she allowed just thrnP hits. 
Freshman Andrra Loman doubled in lfw f1rst to kirk off tho lrish scoring as sh<' drovo in a run while JennifPr Kriech doubled in the fifth to drivP in another. 
Notrn Dame secured its win as it scornd three more in the seventh. Alkire singlPd beforp scoring on a double by Lizzy LnmirP while Myers also dou­bkd to send in tlw final two runs. 
"We hit the ball well. in par-
see SOFTBALL/page 17 

BASEBALL 
Big bats lead Notre Dame into Northwestern matchup 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sporrs Writer 
After winning two out of three games against St. John ·s to remain in second place in the Big East this weekend, the Notre Dame baseball team hosts Northwestern today at Eck Stadium. 
The Irish offense, a question mark ear!v in the season, has been pou~ding the ball as of late. Designated hitter Ken Meyer has has seen his bat conHl to life. :vteyer has sur­passed junior shortstop Aler Porzel for the highest balling average on the team. 
Following eight hits in 13 v\'eekend at-bats. Meyer is now batting .389. 
In addition to Meyer's hot streak, Porzel, freshman right fidder Brian Stavisky and senior lirst baseman Jeff Felker have contributed to the offensive surge which saw the Irish score eight. four and nine runs in the last three games respectively. 
"Hitters generally hit better in warm weather," head coach Paul :vlainieri said. 
Northwestern, 10th in thA Big Ten. sports an 8-12 conference record. The team is led by junior catrher Joe Hietpas, who leads the Wildcats in batting average (.370), home runs (5). and runs batted in (41). Junior shortstop Jeremy Kurella also stands out for the men f"rom Evanston. He is currenlly bat­
t.i n g .339 whilt> leading the Wildcats with four Lriples and 31 stolen bases. 
While Notre Dame is still com­ing duwn from the excitement of Felker's walk-off home run. "'.'J orthwestern is looking to get back into the win column after losing three of four games at Iowa last weekend. 


After an 8-4 victory f.riday night, the llawkeyes swept the V\'ildcats in a Saturday double­

header before tho Wildcats picked up an 8-6 win Sunday. The first pitch tonight is at 
6:05 p.m. at r:rank Eck Stadium. The ganrn can also bn heard on the Internet at www.und.com. 
Softball 
Tennis

at Grand Valley State Sofrball
• Track and Field
SPORTS ttJ 
MIAA Conference
Tuesday, 4 p.m. 

Big East Championships Big East Tournament 
Tournament

ATA At Piscataway, NJ at Chestnut I !iii, Mass.
ttJ 
at Albion College 
Baseball 

Friday-Sunday Friday-Sunday 
vs. Northwestern Friday-Saturday

GLANCE • 
Tuesday, 6:05 p.m. 


