
She's back 
Memories never fade 

Thursday
Superstar actress Julia Roberts' new mo,Jie 
A Saint Mary's student remembers classmate 

'Erin Drockovich · has people flocking to 
Kristi Morris, who died in a car accident over 
theaters. 
spring break. 

MARCH 23,
Scene . page 18 

Viewpoint . page 20 

2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXlll N0.106 


Meningitis strikes Ireland program student 
Bv NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Nl'w, Wri,et 

Wlwn .Julia Fletcher ld't for the Saint Mary's Ireland proh•ram in SP-ptembM. slu") was not l~xpBct­ing what was to rnmr five months later. 
Aflnr struggling v.-ith a bout of' mononucleosis, Flrtc!wr wok11 up Fr.b. 23 tired, with a fever and sick to lwr stomach. ShP thought sh1~ just had the Jlu. Less than tw1\nty-four hours latn. she was admittPd into intt\nsiw care in the hospital for hav­ing typP ( meningitis. . 
AllPr altrnding some morning classes. Hetcher wl'nt back to Iwr room and slept the rest of the day. Later that night, she had an extremely high tem­perature and couldn't move her legs murh. She also noticed big bruises and spots appearing on her body, but just thought she had bumped into some­thing earlier. When the counselor of the Ireland Program came over to sP.e her, she called the doc­tor right away. 
"I just thought it was the f1u -even when the doetor t·amti that night," Fletcher said. 
Fletrh11r was so Wl)ak she couldn't gct out of bed. Tlw doctor gaw Flotcher two shots of' penicillin 
see STUDENT/page 4 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Mendoza donates $35 Illillion to ND 
. Gift for College of Business marks record donation 
By ANNE MARfE MATTINGLY News Edicor 
The singlli largest monetary gH't in Notre Dame history will be directed to the College of Husiness, Notre Dame Public Relations announced Tuesday. 
The gift, in the amount of $35 million, . was donated by 1973 Notre Dame alumnus Tom Mendoza and his wife Kathy as part of th~ University's "Generations" fundraising cam­paign, bringing the effort's totals to over $900 million. 
"Torn and Kathy Mendoza have our deepest gratitude, and we are delighted by their magnificent gen­erosity," said University president Father Edward Malloy in a press release Tuesday. 


Carolyn Woo. dean of the College of Business, said the gift was unex­pected. 
"It is a surprise for the College of Business." she said. "The credit should really go to Father Bill Beauchamp and the development oflice." 
The funds will be used to better the quality of business education at Notre Dame, said Woo. 
"It will not be used for bricks and mortar," she said. "It will be used for building excellence." 
Woo outlined a three-fold vision for the gift. The first area will include efforts to improve the facul­ty through retention, recruiting, and support, said Woo, who noted that faculty are a source of excel­lence. The College will also focus on program support, including cur­riculum development, new course offerings and new learning experi­ences as well as technology infra­structure for business education. 
Woo said that the University has not yet made any decisions on the specifics of how it will budget the dollars and cents. 
"We have not determined the pro­cedure [for deciding how to spend the money]. but it will be a process of conversations and planning that 
will lead us to an action plan and stewardship with respect to this gift," she said. 
The University will rename the rename the College of Business to the Mendoza Collr.ge of Business to honor the family, though Woo said the date for the official implementa­tion of the new name has not yet been decided. 
"It's just a matter of going through thf' logistics and the paper­work. but there is no question that we are committed to that name." she said. 
Tom Mendoza expressed his hap­piness to be able to increase the quality of education at Notre Dame's business college in a press release Tuesday. 
"Kathy and I are delighted to be in a position to support Notre Dame with this contribution," he said. "\,Ve are convinced that the University is committed to making the Mendoza College of Business a world-class college. We are both looking forward to working togeth­er with Dean Woo and the rest of the college's faculty and staff to help them meet their goals." 
To that end, Kathy Mendoza will 
see MENDOZA/page 4 


By LAURA ROMPF Assistant News Editor 
Citing the same sentiments as the administration, the student senate passed an open letter last night concerning the RosP.land Dennv's incident where two stu­dents· were arrested, possibly for racjst reasons. 
"We stand by our students just as the administration has stood by our students. It is unbelievable that this has happened in this day and age," said Keough senator and President-elect Brian O'Donoghue. "This can not be tol­erated. accepted or ignored. This shows the group that the student body stands behind them for jus­tice." 
The letter, which can be sent to numerous involved parties, states: "The officers' actions were without justification. We, the Student Senate, as rPprPsflnta­tives of the entire student body, find the actions of thesA officers both reprehensible and inexcus­able." 
Also discussed at Wednesday's meeting was the cancellation of the Sophomore Sibs weekend. Zahm hall senator Ryan Becker discussed several issues which 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group says actions of police 'inexcusable' 
were raised by the Sophomore Class Council including no clear official reasons for the cancella­tion and lack of communication between Student Activities, the Class Council, and the students themselves. Student Activities said reasons for cancellation included low attendance and high expenses due to !\lotre Dame's geographically diverse popula­tion. The main concern. however. was hall staffs dissatisfaction and worries with the weekend. After sophomores submitted a new proposal hoping to rrmedy these problems. student activities still said no to the weekend. 
"Joe Cassidy chose seven rec­tors to look at the new proposal and the rectors did not respond with enthusiasm to have the weekend," Becker said. 
After all the research, Becker concluded that the situation was unfortunate due to poor commu­nication and similar actions arc trying to be prevented in the future. 
"I feel student activities did nothing wrong intentionally. There ,vas simply poor timing and that they did the best they could. I believe they gave the pro-
see SENATE/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, March 23, 2000 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Walking on sunshine 

I am from Arizona -a warm, sunny place, where cold is never discussed -where cold is considered evil. I was the kid who froze from air-conditioning, the kid who turned ice-cold from summer water balloon fights. So, when I 
told everyone in my homc-­ 
town of my plans of going  
to college in Indiana, they  Kelly Hager  
laughed.  
They laughed, and  
laughed. They laugherl for a long time, and many of  Copy Editor  
them continue to laugh,  
but now, they are smiling  

and laughing for another reason -disbelief. 
Unknown to many people at college, I suffP.r from a disease called Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy -a disease that has restricted me to wearing braces, and a disease that is very difii• cult Lo cure. 
In unfamiliar territory, I am afraid to share -but need to. Some things need to be shared, an this is one of them. So here it is, my grand epiphany. 
Remember the huge blizzard? The one which led to the merciful cancellation of some early morning classes? That was my birthday, and the blizzard was my birthday wish. 
My celebration was simple -a brownie and a match. After celebrating, I flmerged from the dining hall 11incteen and ready to make my first Indiana snowman. It was cold. 
In freezing temperatures and blinding snow, a friend and I trekked across campus hand in hand. Him face down cursing the snow, and me, mouth wide open catching nakes on my tongue and laughing as others tickled my nose. It was quite the sight. And then, it hit me 
I. Kelty Hager, was at Notre Dame. Nol only at Notre Dame. but also in the snow, facing what most said I wouldn't be able to tolerate. I had conquered the last major feat in my first year away from home; I had survived the snow. Immediatelv I was filled with many emotions, from happi;1ess to a grand sense o·f accomplish­ment. 
Instead of taking the shuttle home, I walked by way of the Grotto. I was the only one out­side, perhaps because it was snowing like crazy. But there I was, so happy to be there, and so happy to be able to experience it all. 
The path was newly dusted; there were no car tracks, or tread marks. Just a single set of footprints -mine. I stopped countless times along that road to think and appreciate. While walking a favorite poem came into my head: "Two roads diverged in a wood, and I, l took the one less traveled by. and that has made all the difference." (Robert Frost) 
I smiled; there was my inspiration. And there I was, ready to brave not only the snow, but also any other hand I was dealt. 'Cause I knew if I could handle Indiana weather, I could han­dle anything. 
By the time I reached home, it was midnight. It had been an awesome birthday. 
I don't know how or why I ended up where I am or in the predicament that I find myself fighting, but I do know one thing -I wouldn't exchange my life for anything and I am not holding back. Sure, I would love to be totally healthy. to be able to run fifty miles non-stop in some exotic marathon, but I know what I can and am able to do, and I am using those gifts to the best of my ability. 
I have to agree with Walt Disney when he said, "It's kind of fun to do the impossible." It has been a blast. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and not necPssn.rily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
New~ Scene 
Colleen McCarthy Mikt: McMorrow Kelly Hager Graphics Courtney Boyle Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Karie McVoy Molly McVoy 


Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Lila Haughey Shannon Bennett 

Th, Ob«rvcr (USl'S 599 2-4000) is pllhli,hrd Monday through Friday excepr during e:<am :md v:icarion per.iod,;-, The' Observer is :1 membt"r of rhe A.,so,iated Pre~~. AH reproduction right!! a.re reserved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Concert: Glee Club  . Concert: Glee Club  . Workshop: "Expanding  . Concert: U.S.Continental  
Concert, free. 8 p.m.,  Concert, free, 8 p.m.,  Your Horizons in Science  Army Band Woodwind  
Washington Hall  Washington Hall.  and Mathematics," 8 a.m.  Quintet, free, 3 p.m., Notre  
. Lecture: "Change and  . Lecture: "The Hole of  to 2 p.m., DeBatolo Hall.  Dame Band Building.  
Conflict in Catholic Sexual  Business in Overcoming  . Event: "Dancespring  . Event: Family Workshop,  
Ethics." 7:30 p.m..  Poverty," Peter and Linda  2000," Southold Dance  "Happy Houses. Beautiful  
Hesburgh Center  !Jiehl, 4 p.m., .Jordan  Theater, 2 p.m., O'Laughlin  Beginnings," The Snite.  
Auditorium  Auditorium.  Auditorium, Saint Mary's.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 


Duke finds cheaper alternative cardiac drug 
DURHAM, N.C. 
pared to $1,500 for Heopro. 
Sometimes, creating a drug that Blocked arteries are a very com• can save heart patients' lives is not mon ailment among heart patients. enough; researchers also have to In such cases, the blockage inter­make it affordable. A newly tested feres with tho blood flow and caus­drug trade -named Integrilin es heart pain, also called an angi­promises to do both. na. In a procedure call coronary 
Dr. .James Tcheng, a cardiologist angioplasty, doctors remove such at the Duke Clinical Research blockage by inserting a tube into Institute, led nalionwide cliuical tri­the body and passing it to the heart. als of the drug -also known as Such coronary interventions are eptifibatide -and presented the alternatives to surgery and are findings at the annual scientific open partially clogged arteries, doc• used only when the number of' mi>eting of' the American College ol' tors now intravi>nously give blocked arteries is fairly low. A Cardiology. patients abciximab, also called catheter and a balloon are used to 
Integrilin, similar to a currently Heopro. The drug blocks a specific press the blockage nat and a stent available but expensive drug, was platelet-to-platelet interaction of medical-grade stainless steel is shown to cut by 40 percent the receptor and thus prevents blood implanted to prop the artery open, number of heart attacks, post-pro­from clotting. restoring bloodflow. Around 
ced ure complications and emer­lntegrilin, the new medicine, per­600,000 coronary angioplasty pro­gency surgeries within 48 hours of forms the same function as Heopro cedures arc performed in the a coronary intervention. at nearly a quarter or the cost -United States each year -of these. 
To prevent clotting after doctors lntegrilin costs about $400 com-more than 95 percent use stcmts. 
Napster reinstated for trial period Drug offenders lose financial aid 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Indiana University announced Tuesday they will unblock access to www.Napster.com servers for a two week trial period beginning Saturday. According to a press release, a new method will lower network traffic which will permit the playing and download­ing of music as well as other multimedia files. Napster Inc. and lU worked jointly to find a solution to the congestion problem in order to allow Napster to be reinstated. "Students can use Napster like before and the practical result of what is going to be done is that if students are looking for a particular music file then it will look as close lo IU as possible to find the file," said Mark Bruhn, informalion tech­nology policy officer for University Information Technology Services. "If a file cannot be found with­in the universities network then it will go outside (the network), but it will look there first." Bruhn 
BATON ROUGE. La. 

Students using drugs may find themselves high on life and short on federal aid when section 484 of the Higher Education Act goes into effect July I, 2000, but several groups are working to get this section of the act repealed. The Higher Education Act covers all types of student aid, including Pell grants, Stafford loans, federal work-study programs, Perkins loans and other forms of federal financial aid. Section 484 allows the government to deny or delay financial aid to any student convicted of a drug offense, said Kris Lotlikar, national director of Students for Sensible Drug Policy. Financial aid is need­based, and this section of the act is unfair because it dis­criminates against students from low-income families and does not punish students who can afford to pay their way through college, Lotlikar said. Biased drug laws also cause the act to discriminate against minori­ties, Lotlikar said. "It's pretty obvious who this law will 
said he expects Napster.com to make use of this 
be affecting, and that's people of color," Lotlikar said. 
"We feel that education should be used as a key tool to
method. especially since it will hnlp Lo lower the 
amount of space it originally took up, which caused 
fight drugs, not something to hold over their heads." 
it to be filteTed. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime-conditions an<l high temperatures 
H  L  
Thursday  ~  62  45  
Friday  c:::1  62  45  
i Saturday  Q  62  44  
Sunday  LJ ' ' ' .. '  58  38  
Monday  ..~ _ .  59  41  

j...:r . ',.rv-••-......vr \,...:J 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, March 23. 
30s 
FRONTS: 
.....,,. .._._ 
~ 

0 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY Pressure: 
® © D D ~ .. Q]' E]' ';@'fl'' liA'@# 
High Low Showers. Raln T~slofms Flunle-s Snow Ice Pt. Cloud'Y Cloudy 
Atlanta 7t 52 las Vegas 73 51 Portland 53 38 
Baltimore 51 49 Memphis 72 55 Scarsdale 63 40 
Boston 52 40 Milwaukee 55 42 St. Louis 66 54
q_Q,~9.E}Q ~ ~ u 
Chicago 61 47 New York 59 44 Wash DC 62 45
Sh0Wt3f5 T-storms Rain FIUffiBS Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 80 64 Philadelphia 62 42 Whitewater 62 43
Vt,i A$SOCl6t9d Press GmphicsNet 

Thursday, March 23, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Spring break a 01ix of learning and fun for biology class 
By KATIE McVOY 
News \X1rircr 
for 15 Saint Mary's women. spring break was full of fish, rnlturn. friends and education. 
A marine biology class. accompanied by Platt and his wife, spent the week in .Jamaica learning about the eulturt> and the marine life that lives in the watnrs sur­rounding its coasts. The trip gave the women a hands-on nxperiencr, of what they have spent the semi1ster studying. 
"The real focus was for the students to hr. abIP to observe t1rst-hand the marine life they havp, !men looking at this sl'mPster," said Dr. Thomas Platt. who teaches the marine biology course. "They looked al rockv short' habitats and cxplorPci zonation, distribution of organisms, and rnlated that to wavP action and tide cycles." 
ThH group left Monday and spun( th() W!iek near the town 
of Ckho Hio . Ea e h da v th e women Wfrnl snorkeling and collected samples or algae, snails. and other marine crca­tu res. They then identified their finds and classified each om~ accordingly. At the end of the week. the women had a comprehensive quiz on the 
specimens they found. impact of both man and 
"I learned a lot about the nature." habitats," junior biology major [n addition to snorkeling, the Chris Diana said. "I learned women also enjoyed other about what kinds of specimens activities in the surrounding the coral reefs could support." waters of' Jamaica. One 
The women also learned evening was spent taking a about the effects of humans night walk in the shallow and natural cycles on the coral waters. The students also went reefs that surround Jamaira. ortopus hunting, Diana ratrh­
both of which have 
"ft 's important to see
srriously damaged what effect these the reef in 
/humans and natural 
recent 
cycles} have on the
years. Hurricane human population uflhe Allen in 
island, such as effects on 
1 9 8 0 
the nurition ofa third
destroyed a major coral world country. as well as species and 
the effects on the reef" 
the long­s pined Black Sea 
Thomas Platt urchin was biology professor almost totally elim­

ing an octopus. 
The women also took a trip to explore a mangrove swamp. Platt described the complex ecosys­tem as orrn tl1 at is very impor­tant in terms of stabilizing the seashore and producing new land. Very few mangrove swamps still exist due to deforestation of 
inated by an epidemic in tho the mangrove trees. early 1980's. "The swamp is a very messy 
"It's important to sec what place," Platt said. "The stu­effect these have on the dents were tremendous in tak­human population of the ing on the challenge of explor­island, such as effects on the ing it." nutrition of a third world Along with learning about country. as well as the effects marine life, the women spent on the reef," Platt said. "The time learning about Jamaican women could look at these sys­culture. tems and really appreciate the 'Tm glad we didn't stay in a 
Panel discusses issue of debt relief for developing nations 
at Saint Mary's offered stu­discussHd centered on why sary to first define what devel­By NICOLE HADDAD 
dents an opportunity to learn overseas loans the U.S. makes oping countries are, which he
News \'v'rirer 
more about the state of debt in should concern citizens and explained as countries who are third world countries through people of faith. immaturely developed and less
In celebration of 
a panel discussion directed by Belanger began by address­
lntercultural Studies week, the 
Mark Belanger, professor of ing the danger in focusing in
Intercultural Studies Program 
political science. The issues on the debt process. It is neces-

,, 
e 
COFFEE & BAKERY 
Proudly Serve 
• 
CORNER BAKERY 
From Chicago 

Mon-Fri 7am-10pm/ Sat. 10am-10pm (Special Hours Before & After Theatre Performances) 
213 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend (Behind Morris Performing Arts Center) 
2JJ-eafre 

hotel," sophomore Lauren O'Neil said. "We had the chance to interact with the people of Jamaica and I really enjoyed that." 
The women did not spend the entire week learning. how­ever. They had some time for fun activities that were just for themselves. The women visited Dunn River Falls, a 600-f'oot waterfall they could climb. stand under, and jump off of into the surrounding waters.The women also heard a lecture one night about Jamaican history and culture. They learned about the .Jamaican language, Patois, and even went to mass at a 
Jamaican church. 
"11. was loud and there was a lot of cl~PP).ng," O'Neil said. It was verv different than mass here." 
The women also spent one day exploring a local Jamaican market. The staff of the Hofstra University sent the students on a scavenger hunt to find vari­
"/ learned about the history ofJamaica and also, how to integrate our culture with theirs so that we could interact with them." 
Chris Diana Saint Mary's student 
m e r course in 1992, but found the semester C 1 a S S m o r e effective. He hopes to offer the class 
e  v  e  r  y  
o t  h  e  r  
year.  

"It was 

ous native products. The scav­a lot of fun," O'Neil said. enger hunt encouraged the "We're all science majors, so it women to speak to the people wasn't just the tourism. It was of Jamaica, as well as learn the science that made it fun." 
industrialized. 
"This has been a problem for the United States for a long time, at least since World War II," Belanger said, "and the problem has not gotten essen­tially better." 
Belanger discussed ways the International Monetary Fund (IMF) organization deals with helping countries with pay­ment problems to get loans until the exports are paid off. 
"The IMF tends to have visi­ble representation of the national community," Belanger said. "It is a symbol of the peo­ple and a representation of understanding the production of development." 
According to Belanger, debt helps in the understanding of third world development and is a logical extension. "The prin­ciple wisdom is bringing capi­tal to third world countries and building a western style econo­my," Belanger said. "Bringing in technology will lead to an increase in economic growth," he said. 
Belanger said one pervasive problem in third world coun­tries is the level of borrowing does not allow countries to keep up with the growing gap between the rich and poor. He explained that there are two aspects of this problem. One is that the free market philoso­phy can be a "medicine." 
"This solution will solve the problems of the third world, however it hasn't economically worked because it pulls people to cities, leading to massive urbanization." Belangnr said. 
"The second aspect of the problem is that the state will be held accountablf!. Citizens 
, have a sense of their own polit­ical agency and can make their own changes," Belanger said. 
about some of their customs and beliefs associated with the articles they were looking for. 
"It was a good experiencH for the students to talk to the .Jamaican folks," Platt said. "It provided good. concrete inter­action." 
"I learned a lot about Jamairan culture itsHlf." Diana said. "I learned about the his­tory of Jamaica and also. how to integrate our culture with theirs so that we could inter­act with them. It was a great experience." 
This is the first year the marine biology class has been offered as a semestp,r elective at Saint Mary's. Platt offered the course as a two-week sum-
Belanger emphasized that breaking the chain of debt in­developing countries involves working with the people in order to understand what the problems are. "These are high tech answers," said Belanger. 
Ways of working with the poor are first, to realize that the concept of development doesn't change and second, encouraging global exchange. 
Katie Poynter, junior philoso­phy major, discussed her expe­riences as an intern in Uganda last semester. "The problem I encountered was that children in school don't have parents with an education," she said, "there is no support system." 
Right now Uganda is looking for funding to aid the develop­ment of educational facilities. "Developmental money comes from the outside and influ­ences how programs take shape," Poynter said. 
"I feel that education is ongo­ing and makes parents see that they have a role," she said. 
Poynter commented on what she discovered in Uganda made her realize what many people take for granted in the 
U.S. "l never realized that there are homeless shelters and social services every­where," she said. "There are none in these third world coun­tries because the government does not have the money." 
"You see people with extreme disabilities and there's 
no  where for  them  to  go,"  
Poynter said.  
Maureen  Capillo,  junior  

English writing major and jus­tice education minor, discussed the social movement, and how the IMF is trying to reform the problem in the widening gap between the rich and poor. "Humans rights groups are try­ing to fix them and they realirn it's a lot bigger than simply fix­ing a sweatshop," Capillo said. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 23, 2000 
on the victim. Dormitory living, smoking,

Student Rosca condemns mail-order brides 
and alcohol consumption adds 

continued from page 1 
immediatelv. 
"[The penicillin] is what keep her alive," says flctchflr's moth­er, Marv Claire Suddendorf. "She came 20 to 30 minutes of d)ing." 
When hearing that her daugh­ter had been hospitalized and put on a respiratory breathing system, Suddendorf panicked. 
"We just couldn't get there fast enough," Suddendorf said. "We were just hoping she would still be there when we got there." 
Fletcher was put on medica­tions and monitored very close­ly. She left thP hospital two weeks later. 
Carolyn Langley, diredor of the Saint Mary's Ireland pro­gram, was very proud of how everyone handled the situation in Ireland. 
"Everyone was so very calm and sane," she said. "Thev were wonderful caregivers." · 
Everyone who had come into close contact with Fletcher immediately received prophy­lactic preventative autibiotics. 
Although the cause of menil1­gitis is not known, college stu­dents have a greater potential risk ofcontacting it. 
According to the American College Health Association, "meningitis is an inflammation of the linings of the brain and spinal cord caused by either viruses or bacteria." Meningitis symptoms are very similar to the flu: fever. severe sudden headache, etc. A rash can also erupt on the arms and legs or bruises may appear sporadically 
Mendoza 
continued from page 1 
serve on the advisory• council of the College. 
Tom and Kathy Mendoza have both worked in the com­puter industry for more than 20 years and are both cur­rently employed by the Sunnyvale, Calif.-based 
Network Appliance (NetApp), the leading provider of net­work attached data access and management solutions. The company was listed as the fourth fastest growing by Fortune magazine in 1999 and is a member of both S&P to students' risk. Meningitis is transmitted though the air in the form of respiratory secretion droplets or with direr.t contact of an infected person. However, the bacteria usually do not live outsidfl thfl body for more than a few minutes. 
"Five to eleven percent of the general population carries meningococcal bacteria in the nose and throat in a harmless state,'' (American College Iicalth Association). 
Although the annual incidence of Lhe virus in the UniLed Stales is only about 1.5 cases per 100,000 persons comprising all age groups. it is still a devastat­ing illness when it hits. An immunization against tho meningococcal disease is avail­able at most health servicfls. The immunization approximate­ly lasts up to three years. Director of Saint Mary's H('alth Services, Judy Kenney, recom­mends the vaccine. 
"It mimics the flu and then it's such a s~itch when you realize it's meningitis," Kenney said. "I recommend it for everyone. If you can prevent it, why not?" she said. 
Fletcher, who is now back home in Mir.higan. is recuperat­ing from somP minor hearing loss, muscle weakness, and sores. 
"I had to basically relearn how to walk. I lost a lot of muscle mass," Fletcher said. 
Her mother feels it could have been a lot worse. Fletcher is concentrating on finishing her classes at home. 
''I'm doing really great," she said. "It's quite a miracle." 
500 and Nasdaq 100. 
The College of Business, founded in 1921, was recently ranked among the nation's top 20 best MBA programs in terms of return for the invest­ment by Forbes Magazine, while Business Week has rated the College's business ethics curriculum as the best in the nation. The college is Notre Dame's second largest with 1,800 undergraduates,
780 graduate students and 
130 faculty. It includes the departments of accountancy, finance and business econom­ics, management and market­ing as well as a number of concentrations and six cen­ters for scholarly research and teaching. 
NEED AJOB FOR NEXT YEAR? 
Student Activities is now hiring for the 2000-2001 academic year. 
Positions available: Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew DeBartolo Event Manager Information Desk laFortune Building Managers Office Assistants NO Cake Service ND Express Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers 24 Hour Lounge Monitors 

Applications available at 315 LaFortune or on-line at """'"n•.nd.edu/~sao/forms. Deadline for applications is Monday, March 27. 
By DOROTHY CARDER New, \X1ricer 
Advocating the awareness of the trafficking of women and childrnn, particularly in Asian countries, was tlrn focus of the lecture given by Nonotchka Rosca. 
Hosea, founder of the Gabriella network. whir,h works to raise awareness about the trafficking of women and childrnn. spoke about the continuing and growing amount or women and chil­dren being used as "sex slaves" and as mail-ordered brides -a fad that is becom­ing particularly popular in the United States. 
"(t is harder to open a ciga­rette store that il is to open a mail-order bride agency," Rosca said. 
Many women, 20 million around the world to be exar.t, 90 percont who are women of 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
posal fair consideration. It is a shame it didn't work out because the proposal was great," Becker said. 
A new committee is being formed to determine a new sig­nature event for the sophomore class with the hopes of starting it next year. 
In other senate news: 
. 
Senate unanimously passed a statement issuing 'The Michael 

J. 
Palumbo Award" which will honor a member of the Student Union each year. 


color, am used to promote this industry. They arc forced to prostitute, though they arc told they will work in restau­rants in countries like Thailand. 
The issue is not only occur­ing in foreign nations, but the mail-ordered bride agencies are what is more prominent in obtain their green card, and the men realize this, taking advantage of their vulnerabili­ty in that stage, beating them, torturing them and degrading them as sexual slaves. 
"The amazing thing is that this is legal in the United States," Rosca said. 
Something must be done to 
t h e United 

"It is harder to open a
States, 

s a i d cigarette store than it is 
Rosca. to open a mail-order Hosea 
bride agency." 
s a i d there is nothing Nonotchka Rosca being 
founder of Gabriella network 
done to stop it, n o 

legal action being tak1rn and no political observation of the state the women are forced to believe is right and good for them. The women are wanting to cross into America and 
"He is the epitome of a leader for me." said Matt Kloscr, KPenan Hall senator. "He puts everything he can into his job, and there is no one who deserves this more." 
Palumbo was left nearly speechless. "To all the senators a profound thanks for the award that I hope I am worthy of. I feel I don't deserve this but I appreciate lhe thought and sentiment of this award that was named on my behalf. This is beyond comprehension," he said. 
. Senate passed a Charitable Donations Bylaw so that the stu­dent activities fee is used cor­rectly with in student organiza­make the world acknowledge what governments are doing for the sole sake of "paying off their debts" Hosea said. 
"When thinking of prostitution, you have to let go of what you used to 
think about it," said Rosca. 
Rosca said there is some­thing peoplP can do to fight the problem. She suggested wear­ing a purple rose in support of opposition to the traflicking of women and children. 
lions. 
''Our main purposo is to rnako sure that the money from fees at the beginning of the year allocated to student activities is spent on the students rather than on someone else," said Katy Fallon, a representative from Executive Cabinet. 
. Senate unanimously approved the nominations for judicial council president, vice president of elections. and co­vice presidents of advocacy. 
Tony Wagner will be President, John Bauters VP of elections, and Angela Galui, Amanda Dovidio, and Nicholeen DePersis will be co-vice presi­dents of advocacy. 


We'.-e having a Spring Preview Day ... Sunday, March 26 •.. I :00 -4:00 p.m.... and you're invited. 
There's a lot more to Holy Cross College than a fresh, new face.We're kicking off the new century with an expanded curriculum, a new associate of arts degree in business administration, spruced up landscaping, additional sports and recreation facilities and more on-campus housing. Just recently, we broke ground on a new student apartment complex. 
Some things haven't changed, though.We're still a small, dose-l<nit, two-year liberal arts college where you'll get the personal attention you need for success. 
Come to our Preview Day. And see how we do it. 
* ROLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Notre Dame, Imlianu 
P.O. Box 308 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 www.hcc-nd.edu 
©2000 Holy Cross College 

orld 



AFP Photo 

Palestini•n girls wear mock chains and hold up posters of Pope John Paul II in the Daheisha Refugee Camp in the West Bank on Wednesday, during the pontiff's landmark visit to the squalid camp on the edge of Bethlehem. Violent clashes between Palestinian youths and Palestinian security forces erupted right after the Pope departed. 
I Palestinians clash after Pope's visit 
Thursday, March 23, 2000 


WORLD News BRIEFS 
Glickman declares Florida counties disaster area 
HOMESTEAD, Fla. 

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Dan (;lickman dPt·larPd an agricultural disastPr area WPdnesdav in four Florida counties where an in1·uriblP citrus disease is ravaging groves that once providNI nearly all of the nation's limes. "This loss i.s just as devastat­ing as a drought." <,lickman said at a grove that was bulldozed because it was infected with citrus ranker. South Florida limo grow­Prs havi> lost morp than half of their $20 million-a-ycar crop. and officials !"ear the «·itrus cank<'r could threaten more or the state"s $8 billion citrus industry if it spreads north into Florida's orange. grapefruit and ot hPr citrus groV1\S. 
Prisoner loses rosary case 
HOSTON 

..\ murdPrPr f'ai!Pd tn show his rPligious rights \\Prn 11iol.at1·d by prison guards who sl'iZPd his rosarv bPads out of concnrn the bl'ads might lw ·a sign of gang activity. the statP's higlwsl court rn!Pd Wedrrnsday. The Suprl'm<• .fudici,Ll Court ruled that Pntcr Kant'. who had whit!' and blark beads on his rosan. bad lwPn ofl'Prcd an all-black sPt of bt>ad~ at a prison worship sPrvic<'. "The plaintiff offPrs no rPason why Im could not USP tlw black rosarv !wads that wPrn offPred Lo him at nach religious sPrvicc," t\rn court said of Kan<'. who is a Roman Catholic. Karw ·s black-and-whit<' rosary was confis­rntl'd during a shakPdown of his CPI! at thf' statP prison in Shirl<•y in July 1997. IIP had usPd tlw bnads sinc1• a prison chaplain gave tlwm to him in 1995. Prison officials said tlrnv had to ban multicolorrd bnads because Llwy w1\rn concC'rnPd that such bnads could bf' ·usnd by gang mnmlwrs to identify each olhnr. 
Cocaine, heroin prices fall 
WASHINGTO'.\I 

Th(' prices of cocaine and hrroin have fall(m to record lows and the drugs remain widely available, federal officials say, while insisting that progress is being made against drug use in the United States. In remarks prPparPd for presentation Thursday before a House Appropriations subcommittee, White llouse drug control policy director Barry McCaffrey cites declines in youth drug use and drug-relatf'd crime during the past year. But he also notes that heroin has become morn popular among young people and says nrnthamphetamines have a "serious poten­tial nationally to become the next 'crack' cocaino epidemic." While use of cocaine itself has stabilized. it continues to be readi­ly available in nearly all metropolitan areas. 
It 
uJ,Ji 
A:vtf:X:

Dow 
1030.2-1 • ~6.-1 l

]ONES -40.64 ~asdaq: 

486-l.75 
\ Same
rl 53.07 , ;;02 
NYSE 
6-t3.24 
•()..+5 
S.,'\,p 500; Composite IS00.64 Volume:
-

10866.70 "6.77 1,077,120,00 
VOLUME LEADERS 

S:OigMfi' TICliH ) C:HNBB $ Cft:N:iG7,i PRI:CI 
MICJI.OsorT CURP 
~nrc"-om.tm: 
COIIPAQ COMPUTE.a ::>'!.._.L COMl'U'TEJ\ 
MC! WOPLOCOM IN 
CISCO STST'l!.:MS 
f'SlN'Z:T INC 
!.l!~E1l"l' '!'Et'."H INC 
ltff!L CORP OlU.CU: CORP 
M:SFT ,ot  .. o.4., +fi. 86  +O. S00() +4.615.0  103 .JS .72.00  
C>Q  +S.1i  +1. 7SOO  l2 .l5  
;::.~i,.i., WCOM  -rO.~~ -0 .. 28  +0.1.40-0-o.1n,  ~e.u 41. ~9  
csco  . .2.SO  +3. 5201  lU. JS  
UlX  -l.6.04.  -+-:. ,,oo  U.56  
LU  -6. 54.  ~4.38'00  G"2. 6J  
IN'l'C  +4 .OG  .. s. Ga.:s  lU.Ol;i  
UJl:CL  +.f.18  -+l..112)  U.Of.i  


(ol\1PILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
ISRAEL 
page 5 


Associated Press 
WEST BANK 
Hundreds of young Palestinians hurled stones at baton-wielding Palestinian police shortly after Pope John Paul II left this shanty town today -a grim reminder of the vio­lence still troubling the Holy Land. 
The clash, a sign of grow­ing dissatisfaction with Yasser Arafat's autocratic rule, spoiled the Palestinian leader's festive day in the 

Sharpton begins ten-day sentence 
spotlight as a statesman­like host of the pontiff. It also came on a dav when John Paul made several generous gestures read by the Palestinians as an endorsement of their statehood aspirations. 
The violence erupted around nightfall, less than an hour after the pope left the Dheisheh refugee 
camp,  a  cluster of shacks  
that  is  home  to  about  
10,000  Palestinians.  

Witnesses said police try­ing to push back curious 
his father. "If my father were alive. he would be right here next to Bev. Sharpton." 
Sharpton was convicted in November on two counts of obstructing traffic at the protest. He and 75 others were arrested after backing up traffic lrnaded into the casino capital on the busy Fourth of July weekend. 
The Atlantic County jail is no Hilton: It's overcrowded, some inmates sleep on mat­tresses on the floor and many arc violent offonders. 
"WP 'II treat him like we treat every other inmate," said County Executive Dennis Levinson. "This is a 
onlookers beat several of them with clubs. In response, an angry crowd hurled stones at police officers. Some officers hurled stones back. 
The clash died down briefly, and the streets of the refugee camp were littered with rocks. 
But then, in an expres­sion of anger, some Palestinians tried to smash the blue police barricades that had been set up for crowd control during the pope's visit. 
guy who's all about equal treatment for everyone. right'? Well. he'll get the same treatment as everyone else." 
Sharpton will get an orange jail uniform, a cup. a spoon and toilet paper. Built for 470 inmates. the jail now holds about 970. Up at 7 a.m., inmates are allowed twice-a-clay recreation opportunities and visitors three days a W!iek. 
Richard Mulvihill, Atlantic County's public safety direc­tor, wouldn't say what Sharpton's accommoda­tions will consist of, saying only that he'll get no spe­cial consideration. 
Hundreds of camp resi­dents gathered for a protest march through the streets of Dheisheh. Demonstrators and policemen menacingly fired shots in the air. 
Abdel Rahman Ahmar, a leader of a radical PLO faction, said the camp's anger was directed both against Arafat's oppres­sive rule and against the Israeli-Palestinian peace accords, from which he said refugees have reaped no benefits. 
A..sociated Press 
MAYS LANDING, N.J. 
Casting himself as a mod­ern day Martin Luther King. the Hev. Al Sharpton sur­rcnclcrnd today to begin a l 0-day jail term for leading a d0mo11stration last sum­mer against police treat­ment of minorities. 
Sharpton. 45, rallied with about 600 supporters in a parking lot next to the .\llantic County jail before marching a shorL distance and surrrmdnring to author­ities. 
lie walked arm in arm with Martin Luther King Ill as well as the victims of a 1948 New Jersey Turnpike shooting as he headed toward the chain-link fence of the Atlantic County Justice facility. IIt~ was also accompanied by his wife and two daughters. 

"This comes out of a long tradition of the movement started by Dr. King, which is why his son is here," Sharpton said. He added that the people responsible for radal profiling in New Jersey haven't served a day in jail. but that he was being jailed for protesting it. 
"Injustice anywhere is a threat to justicA every­,vhere," said King, quoting 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 23, 2000 
Job/internship fair aims to help Arts and Letters students 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
News \Xiri1er 
With a new facility. a new director and a new outreach program, the Career Center is excited and willing to help Arts and Ll'ttcrs students in a variety of new ways -including lhe first Arts and Letters Job/Internship Fair being held Friday from 10 a.m. to 4 Arts and 
p.m. in 
Letters

LaF<)rtune. "We've Job/ had a 
Internship

stereotype that !The Fair C a r e c r . Where: 
Center! is 
Lafortune

only for business Student Genter and engi­
. When: Friday

neering stu­
dents," said from 10 a.m. lo Lee Svete. 4 p.m. Svcte has bceu lrne11 the director of the Career Center since coming to Notre Dame from Colgate University last July. 
"So what we set out to do was to draw some organizations to campus that have never been here before, and that would want to him arts and letters students," Svete added. 
"We started to make some phone calls and found very quickly that the reputation of Notre Dame was that of a great liberal arts school ... so I felt we 
HAPPY 21ST 
BFLY! 
rVJ8%CREW... 
V SMELLY, 
MINO AND CHIHUAHUA 
coulrl do more for arts and let­ters students." 
The center decided on a spring job fair because many employers who are interested in arts and letters students are "just-in-time recruiters," Many hiring companies aiso wait until late spring to hire employees because they are unsure of their hiring needs until immediately befor!' the positions should be filled. 
"ThP.re is this whole wave of social service organizations, government agencies, and fash­ion merchandise, broadcast journalism, education, law. and the list goHs 011 ... that don't even start hiring until March, April or May. Whilr. we operate on semesters ... many of these Pmployers who want to hire arts and letters students don't oper­ate that wav," said Svete. 
Although· hosting a fair like this is challenging for many rea­sons, The Career Center is opti­mistic about the success of this event with over 100 employers in over 20 different industries planning to attend. 
"This has been one of the most exciting and explosive job markets we have seen in a long time," said Olivia Williams, Assistant Director of Career and Placement Services. "For us. it is phenomenal to have this many employers represented at an arts and letters job fair held in the spring. We've got compa­nies we don't even have any place to put," Williams stated. 
For many years, The Career 

Center hosted a earner fair for arts and letters students, but its µurpose was to µrovide students with information, not employ­ment. This job and internship fair marks The Center's first attempt at aggressively gather­ing companies from a variety of industries who have an immedi­ate need for arts and !otters stu­dents. Each company represent­ed at the fair will eithflr send a representative or have a resume drop box, 
"Traditionally, arts and totters students have not felt that earner centers really addressed their needs," said Williams. "They would look at the list of companies !.hat corm~ and find that they are generally business related. WhilA we don't have a lot of control over who comes to our campus recruiting, lcspe­cially since many businesses interested in arts and letters studPntsl .. , may have a smaller poo I of recruiters because in lhosn industries thero may not be as many jobs available," she added. 
Svete agreed, "We have to be aggressive and go lo them, [Through the resume drop boxes] some great employers will look at our students' resumes because we've reached out to them." 
The Career Center invites not only arts and letters upperclass­men, but students from other colleges within the University, underclassmen, and students from other area colleges as well. 
"We are seeing a lot of com­panies start earlier with intern­ships to identify students as potential future employees. It used to be just juniors, but now the arc increasingly looking at freshmen and sophomores," said Williams. "The earlier the students start in this process the grnater their chances of success will be." 
However, the process does not havR to be a complicated one. "If this is a student's first time, !the fair isl informal enough that he or she can approach the representatives, somli of whom arc alumni. and make the per­sonal contact, pick up a busi­ness card and follow-up later in writing. If a student knows that they have a particular intr,rr,st, do some research and ask intel­ligent questions at the fair to show the representative what he/she knows," said Sveto. 
This first annual fair will hr, sponsored by larger corpora­tions like ABC News Night.line, Bloomberg Financial Markets, Buck Consultants, Enterprise Rent-A-Car, Journal and Courier (Garnnelt). Pfizer­Steere Pharmaceuticals, Meijor, Anderson C:onsulting, Rntta Trading, Easter Seals ­help arts and letters students find themselves, where they want tu go and what they want to do," said Svete. "I think the best way to figure that out is to participate. rlo internships early, to get into the world of work and find their skills." 
"[But] the challenge is three­fold: the first being to bring tho companies to campus, the sec­ond to engage the arts and let­ters students to start thinking about the process. I think the third thing that's going to hap­pen is that these employers are going to recognize the talent that is here and want to return." 
However, The Career Center is not only reaching out to busi­ness on behalf of arts and let­ters students but to the arts anrl letters students themselves. The Center now offers evening hours, on-call times for walk-in appointments at convenient 

Wisconsin, E S P N . Kaplan "For us, it is phenomenal 
Educational to have this many
Services, 

employers represented at
Profund Systems. an arts and letters job 
and Cox fair held in the spring. " 
Automation System, so 

Olivia Williams
that smaller businesses assistant director of Career and will not have 
Placement Services 
to pay a par­ticipation 
locations like O'Shaughnossy and LaFnrtune, a new coun­selor specilical­Iv focused on advising arts and letters slu­den ts. a com­puting center; an updated career library, the "Go Irish" "web site for recruiting. 

fee. The sponsors also provided for the raffle of a 19-inch color 
TV. 

As the variety of industries present at Friday's fair shows. without being trained in a spc­ci fic skill like accounting or architecture. arts and letters students have a variety of options for employment; howev­er, this often leads to confusion. 
"Part of the challenge is to interviewing and scheduling, and an outreach program focused on cooperative efforts with hall rectors and college deans to inform students of their services. 
'The [Center's] outreach this year has just been tremendous. but the in-pouring and recep­tiveness of the students has been even more magnificent," said Williams. 


Be our guest for the premiere medical ethics lecture ofthe year. A time to share your questions and aspirations with alumni physicians. 
The Philip & Doris Clarke Family Lecture in Medical Ethics 
"Alternative Medicine: Challenge to 
Mainstream Medicine and Traditional 
The Notre Dame French Club is proud to present 

Christianity"
the last movie ofthe French Film Festival 2000: 

The rise ofalternative medicine challenges the traditional modality ofconventional scientific medicine. In 1997, 4 out of 10 Americans spent an estimated 27 billion dollars 
My Life in 

out ofpock.et in the quest for better health care. Do physicians have an ethical obligation to investigate, judge, warn against or even recommend alternative approaches? Scientific medicine as well as the spiritual basis ofhealing are being examined in ways like never before. Can this new dialog and developments improve the understanding of the "an of
~Pink~ 
medicine?" 
(Ma vie en rose) 

Sidney Callahan, Ph.D. 
Professor ofPsychology
Sunday, March 26, 2000 
2:00pm 

Friday, March 24, 2000 
4:00 p.m.
Snite Movie Theatre 

Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium Reception following the lecture 
ADMISSION IS FREE! 

~' fi..ssor-, •
f.~,:.
-0
<. ::,
Sponsored by: Le Cercle Franyais, Student Government, 

Continuing Edncalioa
SUB, the Department ofRomance Languages, and the Nanovic Institute 

Sponsored by: Notre Dame Alumni Association Alumni Continuing Education 

Thursday, March 23, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Kaeser: acupuncture useful for animals, humans 
By KATE STEER Associate News Editor 
In a culture increasingly dominated bv science and 
Western medicirrn, local veteri­narian Te1Ty Kaes1'r is an unusnal practitioner. A certi­fied VPterinary acupuncturist, Kanscr practices acupuncture on many of' his patients in lieu of drugs such as stimulants, depressives ur anesthetics. 
"Arnpuncturr is just another modality of medicine. Acupuncture. being an Asian art. is over 2000 years old,''said Kaeser. "I It! It's a way or trying lo balance nature, or the chi or energy. source." 
Most people immediately associate nendles with acupuncturn, and associate the use of needles with pain. However, the needles used for acupuncture are quite different than those used for medirnl purposes. 
"Acupuncture uses a tapered-point needle. so it SPp­arates tissue -it pushes tissue away. A hypodermic needle actually takes a core of tissue out, and cuts through tissue," Kaeser said. 
Acupuncture is used in vet­erinary medicine and on humans for treatment for Kaeser, who has been prac­problems from allprgies to neu­ticing acupuncture since 1976, rological disorders regarding equates it to Western tech­seizures. Kaeser niques. 

uses it primarily for skeletal  "Acupuncture is just  "There are 400­ 
problems such as hip dysplasia or slipped spinal disks.  another modality ofmed­icine. Acupuncture, being an Asian art, is over  s o m e [acupunc­ture] points on the  
"Acupuncture is not dirrctly  2000 years old. "  b W  o d h e  y r  . e  
related  to  the  there  are  
area where vou  Terry Kaeser  different  
put !he poi~ts.  veterinarian  pharma­ 
Oftentimes you  ceutical  
treat hip prob- remedies  

lems in the feet area or in the for things like headaches, there upper spine," he said. are differnnt positionings or 
'prescriptions' that we can use if one doesn't work." 
Treatment varies, according to Kaeser. In his own practice, Kaeser evaluates his patients after two or three sessions. If success is limilcd, a different 'prescription' might be tried. 
Kaeser demonstratCTd the procedure on a volunteering German shepherd, Nanook, Wednesday as part of a series of presentations by the University's· pre-veterinary 
club. 
The club's next presenter will be Kristi Bush, a veterinar­ian specializing in touch thera­py. The presentation will be at 
Bookstore Basketball Last Week to Sign-Up!! 
Bookstore 
Bookstore B-Ball 8-Ball E-mail: Phone#: BKSTR.1@nd.edu 631-6028
2000 
REGULAR SIGN-UPS THIS WEEK FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE MONDAY-FRIDAY Gpm-9pm
815 

TUESDAY-FRIDAY 11 am-2pm 
BECAUIEIHEBEIINIBEA/IN/Ill II P/Af 



Got News? Call The Observer at 631-5323 and fill 

• 
us 1n. 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 23, 2000 
Report: Web journalism threatens Chinese government 
Turkey had imprisoned  more  researcher Kavita Menon, "It  report says.  weapon  used  against  the  
Associated Press  journalists than any other  remains to be seen how effec­ The committee suspects the  media.  
WASHINGTON The Internet, which is help­ countries, with boLh holding 18 journalists behind bars. Among the jailed in China  tively the Chinese government can actually control it and police it because of course the  deaths of an additional 18 journalists in various nations were linked to their reportage,  "It seems that this kind of thing is increasing." said Anderson, who was held  
ing to fuel the U.S. economy  was software entrepreneur  Internet is so vast."  but the committee's investiga­ hostage in Lebanon for seven  
and President Clinton's desire  Lin Hai, who was convict.Pd of  The Clinton administration,  tors are still working to sub­ years. 
to increase trade with China,  "inciting the subversion of  meanwhile. is trying to con­ stantiate those connections.  "In the last few years, it's  
apparently has also become a  state power" and sentenced to  vince Congress  The report  become clear that government 
threat to the Chinese govern­ment's policies of suppressing  two years in prison for provid­ing the e-mail addresses of  that nent  perma­normal  "/n the cases in China,  suggests that many  and antigovernment groups both are trying to directly  
press rreedoms,  a new report  30,000 Chinese citizens to a  trade relations  many of[the imprisoned  countries  influence news conference by  
says. China's ministry of state security now has an entire departn;ent devoted to track­ing dissidents and their writ­in gs online. according to "Attacks on the Press in 1999," an annual report by the Committee to Protect Journalists. The report details the num­ber of killings, imprisonments and other forms of harass­ment of journalists around the world. The report found that by the end of 1999, China an(l  U.S.-based online magazine that supports democratic reform in China. "That was really a very striking phenomenon this year. In the cases in China, many of them were using the Internet to get their work out," said Ann Cooper, execu­tive director of CPJ, a New York-based group that defends press freedoms around the world. "What we're now seeing is the beginnings of crackdowns on this." However, noted committeP  with China am usingjournalists] were usingwould eventu­other meansthe Internet to getally lead to a to repress betterment of their work out." the media, human rights as well, there. "includingAnn CooperAccording to such subtler executive director of CPJthe report, 34 tactics as journalists squeezing died in the line them finan­of duty in various countries cially through fines and puni­last year. Sierra Leone, a tive taxation." small West African country The vice chairman of the roughly the size of Indiana, committee, Terry Anderson, was the deadliest assignment former Middle East correspon­of 1999, with 10 journalists dent for The Associated Press, losing their lives there, the said kidnappings are another  attacking journalists." After Sierra Leone, the most dangerous place to report the news was in Yugoslavia, where six journalists died. Colombia also was risky. with five reporters killed on the job. The report documents a wide range of other types of attacks against journalists, including hundreds who were fined or assaulted, and a total ot' 87 who were being held behind bars for their work by the close of 1999.  

TbuPSJoqs oPe students nlq"t. .Students P«eive 2596 off meal p•ice with qou• stud.int I.D. 

Michiana's most unique dininq •xpePi•nce Locotec& In fl.e brewu., at tLe Hisfol'ic 100 Cenfe• in MisLawalco (219) 257-1792 www.100cenfer.com 

~~ r r rl 
DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY,1 
Se s s 1 on s) 
Courses, Workshops, Seminars, Study Abroad 
Transferable Credits 
Accelerated Sessions 
Start Dates: May through July 
Register by fax, phone, mail or in person 
Call 1.800.283.3853 for our complete Summer 2000 Informationl Application Package 
@) 
_0rJQUESNE 
lJNIVERSITY PmsBURCH, PA 15282 
www.duq.edu 
e-mail: summer@duq.edu 

THE TASTY BACON CHEDDAR WHOPPER: 
T H I N K O F I T A S A WH O P P ER® T H A T ' S DRESSED UP WITH SOMEPLACE TO GO. 

THE WHOPPER' WITH A NEW TWIST FOR A LIMITED TIME. -
If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger,"* why not try it a whole new way? With crispy bacon and melted cheddar chee&e, it's sure to put a smile on your face. So head to a BURGER KING<!' restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
The Huddle • Lafortune Student Center 


Thursday, March 23, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Lawsuit awards wo01en $508 M 
today. It is a delicious victo­individual casf' in the courts,

Associated Press 
ry." even though the suit had been In addition to the $508 mil­certified as a class-action
Wt\SHlNGTON 
lion that must be paid to the case, government lawyersSome 1. ·1 00 women who women -approximately decided to settle to save 

were denied jobs with the fed­$450,000 apiece before taxes money; they had already losteral agency that disseminates 
-the federal government 46 of the 48 cases that hadU.S. government news and must also give them nearly gone to trial, with eachinl'ormation 

$23 million in back pay and woman winning aboutovcrsr:as won Lawsuit interest and pay their attor­$500,000. Those 46 wlll also$508 million neys' fees. Those fees will be share in Wednesday's settle­

from tlrn gov­Specifics 
at least $12 million, because ment.

Pr 11 rn en t 
1,100 women 
the lawyers intend to bill the "We took into account the

Wednesday 
denied jobs by a government for approximate­prior court. decisions of thP

in the 
Iv 90.000 hours of work over trial and appellate courts ... , 

larg<'st-evN U.S. federal 
the 2'.-3 yPars. the results of the individualsetthrnrnnt of' agency will "TlHi message has to be class members' hearings that 

a fNleral SPX sent to the L'nited States gov­had been conducted to date,
discrimina­receive 
ernnrnnt, to Pmployers in this as well as our independent

tion case. 
$450,000 a~iece country and to employers projections of the likely

The agnrn­around the world; The cost of results of the remaining hear­
ment. ,..,hich beforetaxesin 
discrimination is high. If you ings in the absence of a settle­

stil I rpq ui rns the settlement. 
compoun<l that with <lelay, ment," said Wilma Lewis, U.S.

app1·oval 
the cost of discrimination is attorney of the District ofl'rom a l't•der­
enormous, said Bruce Columbia.

al judge. comes 23 years after 
Fredrickson. the women·s The government had been

the first woman. the then-29­lead attorney. dealt a 
year-u Id Carolee Brady The Justice series of
llarlman, accused the now­"J went for a job 
Department legal blows

defunct U.S. Iuformation 
interview and the man
said that over theAgency and its broadcast 

although who was interviewing me years. In

branch, the Voicr~ of America. 
there have 1984. the

of turning lrnr down for a job told me that he was not
been larger ll S 

as a writer becausp, of her 
going to hire me because I 

settlements District
gender. 
involving was a woman. Court here

"l went for a job intl~rview 
other forms of found theand the man who was inter­

discrimina­govern­

viewing me told me that he Carolee Brady Hartman
tion, this was ment guilty

was not going to hire me 
the largest plaintiff of sex dis­

because I was a woman," said 
federal sex c rim in a ­
Brady, today a 52-year-olcl discrimination tion. Since
divorcPd social worker living case since the then, the
in San Francisco. "At the Civil Rights govern­
time, l just didn't know how 
Act was signed into law in ment filed and lost two

to respond. !\ow, I have a way 
1964. appeals and was denied a

of rnsponding, and this is the 
In the end, after many years hearing by the Supreme
victory that we all celebrate 
of insisting on trying each Court. 

INDIA 
President pushes 
India on environment 
slapped their desks in applauseAssociated Press 
at much of the president's speech but listened in silence as
AGRA 

he urged nuclear restraint andPresident Clinton marveled at contact with Islamabad.
the wonders of the Taj Mahal "In a nuclear standoff, there on Wednesday but lamented is nothing more dangerous than
that pollution has blemished the believing there is nu danger,"gleaming white marble walls of Clinton said. 
India's 
lie said the United States and
treasured 
former Soviet Union, despite
monument safeguards and regular commu­in a way nication, "came far too close tothat wars, nuclear war."
invasions 
But even before the presidentand natur­spoke, India's government had
al disas­rejected his call to sign a 
ters could nuclear test ban treaty and oth­
not. 
erwise restrain its nuclear pro­
{I e 
gram.
u r g e d 
And afterward, Foreign
India, one of the world's poorest Ministry spokesman Raminder
nations, not lo sacrifice the 
Singh Jassal said this was not
environment for the sake of 
the time for talks with Pakistan. 
economic growth. "Givo us a 
"How can we have a dialoguechance to work with your scien­with Pakistan when massacrestists to prove you can achieve arc taking place with cross-bor­even greater economic growth der terrorism?" he asked, refer­
and make the environment 
ring to the killing of 40 peoplecleaner," the president said. 
in disputed Kashmir by gunmenThe president toured the Taj 
whom India calls Pakistan­Mahal after addressing the 
backed militants.
Parliament in New Delhi, urging 
Pakistan "must stop cross­
India to forgo nuclear weapons border terrorism and cease hos­
and resume a dialogue with ti I e propaganda against us,"
Pakistan despite bitter tensions. 
Jassal said.
"You don't make peace with The address to members of 
your friends," Clinton said. 
Parliament concluded Clinton's"Engagement with adversaries two days of official business in
is not the same thing as 
New Delhi. 
endorsement." Legislators 


GOLFPASSES NOWAVAILABLE! 
THE NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
STUDENT 

Spring Passes $50 Course opening through Graduation 
Fall Passes $50 

Orientation through course closing 
Annual Passes $125 

Pass holders may can 631-6425 for tee times up to 30 days in advance 

WARREN 
GOLF COURSE 

STUDENT 
Annual Passes 
$500 
Fall Passes 
$200 
Pass holders may can 631-4653 for tee times up to 30 days in advance 
p:ige 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 23, 2000 
student union 
HAPPENING§ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Movie: Being John Malkovich 3/23. Thursday. 101 DeBartolo 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 3/24. Friday. 101 OeBartolo 0800PM & 1030PM. 3/25. Saturday. 101 OeBartolo 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 3/23. Thursday. Lafortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
Nazz: Battle of the Bands 3/24. Friday. Senior Bar (all ages) 0800PM. Tickets: $2 
Jimmy Fallon 3/25 Saturday Library Auditorium 0B00PM. Tickets: $2 
CCC (CLUB COORDINATION C:DIJNCILJ 
National Disabilities Week Speaker: Chris Burke from television's "Life Goes On" 

3/29 Wednesday. TBA 0700PM 
CLA§§ OF i!!OOI 

Bowling Night 3/24. Friday Beacon Bowl. 0900-1200PM $2 at the door 
0 
CLAS§ DF i!!DD3 

Freshamn class spirit week Class Mass with Fr. Hesburgh 3/26. Sunday. Alumni Hall Chapel 0400PM 
Brother/Sister Dorm Pizza party during "Who Wants to be a Millionaire?" 3/28. Tuesday. 
Freshman Talent Show 3/29 Wednesday Reeker's 

Freshman with class T-shirt get into SUB movie Free 3/30 Thursday 101 DeBartolo 1030PM 
Campus Wide Scavenger Hunt 3/31 

Video Dance Party 4/1 Saturday Stepan Center 1030PM-0130AM 
Ml§CELLANEOLJ!i/CAMPLJ§-WIDE 

French Film Festival: My Life is Pink 3/26 Sunday Snite 0200PM. 
Thursday, March 23, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Eiian relatives fight Court ruling 
of an international custody reunite Elian with his father in
. Family hopes to 
dispute and a power struggle a prompt and orderly way. Butkeep Cuban boy in among his relatives since he she did not set any deadline. United States was found clinging to an inner Justice officials have made 
___________ tube off Florida on Nov. 25. clear that they want to avoid His mother and 10 others any steps that would trauma­
Associated Press 
drowned when their boat cap­tize the boy or provoke a con­MIAMI sized during an attempt to frontation with Miami's large ,/\ttornr.ys for Elian reach the United States. Cuban exile community. Gonzalez's great-uncle said ThP Immigration and In South Africa on Naturalization Service has Wednesday, Cuba's foreign
Wednesday they would go to ttw SuprnmP Court if neces­ordered the boy to be reuniled minister said Elian was being with his father in Cuba. but manipulated by forces that
sary to keep the 6-ycar-old 
boy in the United States, while his relatives in Miami have think only "about revenge sued to prevent that, saying he against Cuba" and "drqam of a
Cuba.n-American groups mef 
deserves the opportunity to war between Cuba and the
to discuss the tactics they would use if the bov is sent 
live in America that his moth­United States." The minister, 
back to the communis\ island._ flr sought for him. Felipe Perez Roque, would not The leaders of 17 Cuban­elaborate, but it was clear he
"Tbis an extraordinary case 
American groups -which was speaking about the Cuban
that could reach the highest levels of our court system," have often protested the gov­community in South Florida. 
ernment's decision to send Greg Craig, tho attorney forsaid attorney Kendall Coffey. 
Elian home Elian's father,
"I've never sern a more com­pelling or dramatic story in met said on NBC's 
Wedmisday "/ don't think sending "Today" that
my life." For now, tho legal team is in Miami to him back is in his best the · most 
discuss humane action
focusing on the next step. The interest. We want his 
measures the Miami rel­
attorneys filed a notice of 
father to be here. We love

appeal with the 11th U.S. they would atives could Circuit Court of Appeals in take if the our family in Cuba and take would be Atlanta on Tuesdav, hours boy is for us it's tearing us to drop their 
returned. appeal.

after U.S. District Judge 
apart."

"Should a Ile said the decision father, Juan Michael Moore dismissed the 
Miami family's lawsuit and 
c o m e M i g u e I
affirmed the government's Georgina Cid Cruz decision to send Elian to his 
w h e r e Gonzalez,
cousin 

father in Cuba. something would come to happens, tho United
"Elian has been saying over 
that the people don't like. let's States immediately to pick upand over again that he doesn't 
see why he has to go back," demonstrate so that our mes­Elian, but only if he were cer­said the boy's cousin, sage can get to Washington," tain the bov would leave with him. ,
Georgina Cid Cruz. "I don't said Ramon Saul Sanchez of 
the Democracy Movement. The Miami family's appeal
think sending him back is in his best interest. We want his After Moore's ruling focuses on a provision of U.S. father to be here. We love our Tuesday, Attorney General asylum law that says any alien Janet Reno said she would has a right to apply for asy­
family in Cuba and for us it's 
consult with other Justice lum. "Any alien also means
tnaring us apart." 
Elian has been at tlw center Department officials on bow to Elian Gonzalez," Coffey said. 
Hostages say they drugged assailant 
getting out on bail, he kid­
Associated Press 
napped Whitehead and killed three people who tried to helpBALTIMORE 
her, police said. Whitehead
After four days as hostages, a 
escaped on March 8, but

couple managed to escape sus­Palczynski killed a woman andpected killer Joseph Palczynski shot a child in the face whileby putting a sedative in his iced trying to steal a car, police said. 
tea, then slipping out of an 
The 31-year-old unemployedapartment window as he dozed. 

electrician eluded police forPolice stormed the small almost two weeks, allegedlyapartment Tuesday night to fleeing to Virginia and then

rescue the couple's 12-year-old forcing a man to drive him back 
sun, then shot Palczynski to 
to Baltimore at gunpoint.

death when he was startled awake and made a "furtive ges­On Friday night. Palczynski ture." Pulice said he had three 
forced his way into the apart­ment of Whitehead·s mother,
guns within reach. "He put us on an emotional 
Lynn Whitehead, and held her roller coaster. hostage along with McCord ­We would her boyfriend 
-and their

think that he "He put us on an 
was readv to 12-year-old
emotional roller coaster.
give in, 'but son, Bradley then he would We would think that he McCord. in the 
say, 'I'm was ready to give in, but suburb of 
going to die Dundalk.
then he would say, Tm
here or I'll McCord said 
escape,"' going to die here or I'll he and Bradley hostage Andy escape. barricaded McCord told themselves in T h e a bedroom 
Andy McCord
Associated w h i I e Press on hostage Palczynski Wednesday. shot about 50 "We're pretty r u u n d s exhausted. We just thank God through the door. They escaped we're alive." injury, however, and endured 
It was a dramatic ending not 100 tense hours with Palczynski only to the ordeal of the three in the apartment. hostages, but also to a three­Palczynski -who spent near­week spree of violence by ly all of his adult life in prison, Palcyznski. mental institutions or on proba­
He was arrested March 4 for tion -called himself "Colonel allegedly beating his ex-girl­Palczynski" and went through friend, Tracy Whitehead. After sudden, wild mood swings. 
WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN MATHEMATICS? Many excellent career opportunities are available to students with degrees in mathematics. Of 250 occupations ranked in order of desirability by the 1999 publication Jobs Rated Almanac, the top six are all mathematically based! The training and analytical skills acquired in studying mathematics are precisely what many companies and professional schools look for. Here are some of the careers pursued by recent Notre Dame graduates in mathematics. • Actuarial Positions in the Insurance Industry • Computer Programming and Systems Analysis • Management Consulting • Teaching at All Levels • Post-graduate Study in Business Administration, Computer Science, Engineering, Law, Mathematics, Medicine, Music. For inforn1ation about majoring in mathematics contact Professor Warren Wong (wong.l@nd.edu), Department of Mathematics, room 315 CCMB.  

L----.·---------·---· -----· -----------------· ---------­
-------------------------------.. ---< ------------~ -------­

"Bank of the Last 25 Years" as awarded by International Financing Review, the journal of record of the international capital markets. 
CREDIT 
FIRST 
SUISSE 

BOSTON www.csfb.com 
Thursday, March 23, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Court rules student fees are no violation 
Associated flress 
WASIIINGTON 

State-run schools can subsi­dize campus groups with money collected from mandatory stu­dent activities f1ms without vio­lating the rights of students who '1nd soum of' those groups ot-(jec­t ionab Ie, the Supreme Court ruled Wednesday. 
The justices unanimously upheld tlrn Universi.ty of Wisconsin's student-fee system aft.nr finding the school does not pick and choosr which student groups to fund based on the views they espouse. 
"The First Amendment per­mits a public university to charge its students an activity fee usnd to fund a prugrarn to facilitate extracurricular student speech if tho program is view­point neutral." .Justice Anthony Kennedy wroti> for the court. 
The amendmr.nt protncts free­speech rights, and the mandato­ry fops had been challenged by students who said their rights were violated by forcing them to contribute to groups they oppose. 
Had the justices ruled the other way, public colleges and universities across /\mcrica would have had to stop giving money to controversial student groups or figum out some way to give partial refunds to those students who wanted t!H1m. 
Liberal groups praised the rul­
ing. 
"College and university cam­puses have a long tradition of providing a forum where many voices can be heard." said Ralph ;\leas of People f'or the Anwrican Way 
n·ut conservative groups said the decision shortchanged some students. 
"The court accorded little value to a student's right," said Liberty Counsel's Matthew Staver·. "This decision takes away the rights of the objec­tors." 
The court previously had allowed members of labor unions and bar associations to opt oui of paying mandatory duos that might subsidize politi­cal advocacy. But Wednesday's ruling drew a distinction by emphasizing what Kennedy called "the important and sub­stantial purposes of tho univer­sity, which sm~ks to facilitate a wide range of speech." 
Thr. court had split 5-4 when ruling live years ago that public universities and colleges cannot create a "public forum" for stu­dents by supplying subsidies and then refuse to fund some groups because of their view­points. 
The l 995 decision. involving a campus religious group at tho University of Virginia, divided the court along its ideological fault line. That gap was not in evidence Wednesday, surprising liberal and conservative advo­cates alike. 
'vVhen Wisconsin's student­fees system was challenged in 1996. about $15 of the $166.75 that students paid in fees each semester was earmarked for distribution to campus groups by the student government. For a school with some 38,000 stu­dents, that created a total fund each semester of about $570,000. 

Senate ends Social Security limits 
• Decision allows benefits to be collected without regard to income 
Assodated Press 

WASHINGTON 
By a 100-0 vote, the Senate joinPd the House in agreeing Wednesday to let Social Security recipients collect 
tlrnir full  
b e n e fits  The Plan  
no matter what they e a r n .  More than 800,000 people  
President  who remain on the  
Clinton h a s  job from age 65­ 
promised  69 will be eligible  
to sign the bill.  to receive Social  
T  h  a  t  Security benefits  
was  wel­ 

come news for Lewis Bowers, 65, of Columbia, Md., and about 800,000 other people who remain on the job through their late 60s. 
Bowers said he got a nasty surprise when his tax pre­parer told him he had to reimburse the government a big portion of last year's Social Security benefits because he had continued to work construction and earned more than $17,000. 
"It was a rude awakening," said Bowers, who was visit­ing the Capitol on Wednesday. "A lot of people my age are going to be happy tonight," he said after the Senate vote. 
The House passed an almost identical version by a 422-0 vote three weeks ago. It will have to vote on it 
again. most likely next week, congressional ·aides say, because the Senate made a technical change to assure that workers age 64 are not penalized. 
KI look forward to opening a new era of opportunity for older Americans by signing this measure into law," President Clinton said in a statement from lndia, where he was visiting the Taj Mahal. 
The change would be made retroactive to Dec. 31, 1999, effectively boosting the income of 800,000 workers 65 through 69 by thousands of dollars before election day next November. 
Un de r current 
"We need the workers. It
law, those ment] needs workers would be ridiculous at a to drive now must people from
time when we have these 
i-eturn $1 of the work
[employment] needs to
Social force." Security drive people from the Sen. Bob benefits for Kerrey, 0­
work force. '' 
every $ 3 Neb., who is they earn not seeking a b o v e Spencer Abraham re-election, 
$17,000, U.S. Senator (R-Mich.J sounded the 
U n t i 1 Congress raised the ceiling before the 1996 election, new beneficiaries could earn only $11,250 a year before losing some of their benefits. 
For folks like Clarence Plante, 68, a Wal-Mart employee from Manassas Va., those extra dollars that will stay in his household are sorely needed. 
"This was a penalty that really hurt," Plante said. "Today, it's not a luxury to work after 65." Many seniors 
are raising their grandchil­dren, and after bills are paid, "nothing is left over," he said. 
Lawmakers in both parties called the earnings limit a Depression era relic intended to push seniors out of the workplace to make room for younger workers. 
With a current unemploy­ment rate of only 4.1 per­cent, penalizing able-bodied seniors for continuing to work is the last thing the government should be doing, said Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich. 
"We need tho workers," Abraham said. "It would be ridiculous at a time when we have these [employ­
only discord in two days of debate. While sup­porting the bill, Kerrey said he was troubled that more extensive Social Security reform wasn't being pursued. Experts warn that without an increase in the current 
12 .4 percent Social Security tax or a decrease in benefits, the fund will start paying out more money than it receives in 2017, shortly after the post-World War II baby boomers begin retiring en masse. 





Full Tuition Scholarship 
Through the Navy ROTC Program Scholarships are currently available for sophomore students in one of the following majors: Engineering, Mathematics, Computer Science, Physics, Chemistry To be eligible, a student must have a cumulative GPA of 3.00 
Botta Trading, L.L.C. 

or greater.
has current openings in: 

Contact Lieutenant David Rowland of the Navy ROTC unit at 631-6061 orb email at Rowland.9@nd.edu.
• ON-FLOOR OPTIONS TRADING 

• OFF-FLOOR TRADING IN EUROPE 
NOTRE DAME DISCOUNT: 
• TRADING TECHNOLOGYI SOFTWARE ENGINEERING 

$20 OFF ON ANY SPA! 
SUPIII 
a Available to all students and Parents with rhis trading operations at the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the Pacific Stock Exchange 
Botta Trading, L.L.C. is a major market maker of index and stock options with floor 
coupon. in San Francisco, the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) in New York, and the 
Valid Sunday -Thursday -not valid for Special
Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Botta also conducts electronic screen-based trading on 
Evenrs

t.laTEL
German and Swiss equities traded on the EUREX from our Frankfurt office. With over 
l-80 ,11 Exi1 77 • 'i282'i US 3.,N • South !lend. IN• 272­
60 market makers, Bolta provides significant market liquidity in. exchange-traded options 
on approximately 500 stocks and indexes. 
9000 !-RO ,11 Exit 77 • 52825 US 3.,N • Solllh Bend, IN•
L _______________________ J Botta docs not require its candidates to have a prior background in economic or financial matters. Instead, we carefully seek individuals who have demonstrated strong leadership abilities and who display a keen ability to work with confidence and discipline in a highly competitive. fast-paced environment. Botta has an extell$ive internship program and welcomes underclassmen to attend its information session. Botta representatives will be discussing and answering questions regarding employment in both trading and technology-related positions for all of our locations. For additional information, please visit Botta•s web site at www.bottatrading.com, 
Visit us at the University of Notre Dame Arts & Letters Job/Internship Fair March 24, 2000 10am -4pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Botta Trading, L.L.C. 

Chicago New York San Francisco Frankft,rt Amsterdam 

272-9000 
-----------------------. 
page 14 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 23, 2000 
Want to make a Difference? 
;f(J)J;f@m]g g g 
Come to 1010 Flanner Hall on March 30 at 7:00 p.m. 
Learn how you can start your own tutoring and mentoring program 
Funding Available 
Bought to you buy the people who brought you ACE!!! 

,:-o_n
It Jl1 • 

. F 

interested entrepreneurs contact John Eriksen at 1-4447 or John.R.Eriksen.1@nd.edu 
( 
t t ­
Thursday, March 23, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
McCain shows GOP support in return to Capitol Hill 
Associated Press 
WASI IINGTON 

.lugglin,< party loyally with political indt>pendenci', Sen. .John McCain promised llouse Hepuhlicans on Wednesday he will cam­paign vigor­ous Iy for thPrn. then proddnd formPr COi' r i v u I CPorgP W. Bush to support fcdt>ral n~g­u Iation or tobacco. 
"l hopP thP govPrnor will lakP lh11t position." he said in an Assoc:ialNI Press inlPrvi1iw. 
Bush. who de!'P-al!'d Mr.Cain 
to lock up thP Republican prcs­
idc n t ia I nomination, bas 
d,,rJinnd to say wlwllrnr hp 
ravors federal regulation. 
In the int.Prvil'w in his SenatP 
office. McCain said he, intends 
to board his campaign bus, the 
Straight Talk Exprnss. one 
more lime. and ride il this 
summor from the Capitol to his 
party's national convention in 
Philadelphia. 
lie said he underwent a "10­
to-12 hour period of depres­
sion" thP night of Super 
Tunsdav when he realized his 
campaign was over. lie lay 
awakP for hours, he said. not 
b1\causp lw lost. but bocause 


"the ride was over." I.le said he taining the GOP majority. At and also served as a challenge was proud of the reform-based the same time, he has repeated to Rush. campaign he ran. conceded his delermination to press the The Texas governor sil.le­some mistakes but defended "reform agenda" that helped stepped the question of FDA one of his most controversial fuel his rise in the presidential jurisdiction in a statement acts, a sper,ch strongly criticiz­race and frequently brought issued on Tuesday, and again ing Pat Robertson and Jerry him into r.ontlict with his o,"'·n on Wednesday. "He believes Falwell in the days bdore the party. that Congress should pass Virginia primary. On tobacco, McCain said he tough laws to keep tobacco out 
The speech "needed to be will support an effort to pass of the hands of kids similar to given," he said. "It would not legislation this year giving the strict anti-teen smoking laws have be,m fair for me to haw: Food and Drug Administration be advocated and signed in 
won the primary and then" jurisdiction. The Supreme Texas," it said. madn the commirnts, which Court ruled c,n Tuesday the If McCain was parting com­many Republicans say trig­agency currently lacks such pany with his party on one gered a backlash among cul­power, a 5-4 opinion that issue. he signaled his loyalty on tural ronservatives that cnst renewed interest in tho legisla­another. In a closed-door meet­McCain dearly at the polls. tion. ing with House Republicans, he 
McCain has been grudging in "l lrnlicvr. we could pass a bill promised to campaign for GOP his praise of' Bush sinr.e return­that would give the FDA the candidates without imposing ing to Washington this week, authority," conditions such although he has frequently said he said. !IA as support for he will support the nominPe of added, 'Those {Republican his key issue of 
his party. though, candidates/ are far better campaign 
"I respect the verdict of the that" when finance legisla­
people for me to deal with 
voters,"he saict. "I respect l see the tion. 
Governor Bush. bul I have to huge inllu­than Democrats on a broad "There may say in the interests of straight encc of the variety ofissues because be Hepublican talk I would not have run the tobacco candidates that
at least I share the same
campaign be ran unc.ler any companies I campaign for cirr.umstances." the philosophy with these who may not After Bush lost the New Republican Republican candidates." totally agree HampshirP. primary, he sharply Party took with me on attacked McCain in the wel'ks $7 million some issues of 
John McCain
that followed, relying on surro­from the reform. Those gates in South Carolina and tobacco U.S. Senator (R•Ariz.l are far better elsewhere as well as his own companies people for me campaign television commer­then to deal with cials. obviously I'm concerned." than Democrats on a broad McCain, with his campaign McCain's comments put him variety of issues because at over, has sought to re-enter the at odds with Senate Majority least I share the same philoso­Senate this week as a loyal Leader Trent Lott, who opposes phy with these Republican can­
Republican committed to main-expanding the FDA's authority, didates." 
Even as McCain met with Republicans, Democrats sought to exploit the issue. Rep. Patrick Kennedy. D-H.I., who chairs his party's campaign committee, said McCain has put himself in an awkward position of supporting lawmak­ers who oppose his bill. "!louse Republicans are controlled by the wealthy special interests ­and not even the Straight Talk Express can get them back on track," Kennedy said. 
McCain was warmly received by the !louse rank and file -a contrast to the derision that many Republican havP-heaped on his call for a ban on cam­paign "soft money." According to several Republicans, one lawmaker who faces a tough race. Rep. Brian Bilbray, pub­licly asked McCain to campaign on his behalf in his district in California. 
Rep. Jim Rogan. another Californian who faces a strong challenge, urged McCain to join the GOP ticket as vice presiden­tial running mate this fall. these Republicans added. 
In commenls to fellow law­makers, McCain demurred about joining the ticket. 
In the interview, he dismissed the idea. 
Asked whether he might ever run again for the White House, he said he doubted it. 
"You never rule anything out in life, except the vice presi­dency," he laughed. 

Please Recycle The Observer. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 16 OBSERVER Thursday, March 23, 2000 
DILBERT  
ALICE, THIS 1$ ME fROM THE FUTURE.  IS THAT TRUE?  
E 0 CJ -g .a 'i3  

L--___1..,,1,
__~....-'----llilll.....,1 ......__u.._.....;::;..........i-._...."""'!L-.l-..l..l.-L..i..o....wl..;...~---~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
NO, BUT AFTER TODA'r' SHE NEVER 
DRANK AGAIN. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A man travels the world over in search of what he needs and returns home to find it." 
George Moore playwright 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining H.11, None Dame. TN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF Mike Connollv 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Tim Logan Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Ma1tingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smi1h SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EmTOR: Li, Lrng 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Par Pecers AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINIST"RATOR: Mike Gunville WER ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turncr GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cucll;1r 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNFO ...........631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin. cc. nd. ed u EDITOR IN CHIEF...................................•...631-4542 MANAGING E01rn11/AssT. ML.... ···········631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......•.....................•...•..••..631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu Sl'ORTS.......................................................631-4 54 3 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.....................................•..•••.........•...631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. J@nd.edu PHOTO... .............631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ..............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports. leatures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

,nd rares of pri nc ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives co search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meer the editors and 

Augmr 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and on line by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edicorial coment, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the adminimarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right co refuse advertisements hased on content. 
The news is reporced as accurately and ob;ectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiet'. Managing Editor. Assistant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, leccers and columns presenc che views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to F.tNt0r in Chief Mike Cnnnolly. 
Dispelling most small town myths 
I come from a small town. Most people immediately think of things like gigantic belt buckles, country music and large pickup trucks when they think of small towns. Aller my brother's freshman year at college, his frater­
Marlayna
nity buddies wrote in his personal sum­Soenneker mary for lheir annu­al, "After hearing 
Here We Go
about the wonders 
Again
of MIT. Richard sadly left his goat­herding duties in Oregon behind and traveled to big town Boston." We small town folks get a bad rap. 
But, despite the rumors, there mally are some poople out then>, like me, who come from small towns and yet don't own a belt buckle or a large truck and who even hate country music. (Note: my familv does not now nor have we ever owne·d goats, sheep or any other hArd­able creatures.) 
My small town is called St. Helens, Ore:. and it's about thirty miles north of Portland. We have two grocery stores, three video stores and one movie theatre with one screen. This movie theatre is probably the last place on earth where you can get still three tickets to a show, a huge bucket of popcorn and two sodas for $15. 
My town has about 10,000 people, so I figure that if you add up the Notre Dame student population, the faculty, the administration. the grounds keepers and the food servicA people, this placr-is probably about as big as my home town. And you see some of the samA things I like about my hometown here on cam­pus. For example, going to Mass at the Basilica is always interesting for me because I am just as likely to see a stu­dent I work with as a professor I have in 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Truly celebrating the eucharist 
In response to Thomas Cooney's letter on Mar. 21 responding to Salvadora Hernandez's critique of the Basilica's policy of reserving large sections or seats for people at certain regularly scheduled masses: 
In my view, Ms. Hernandez's letter reflected an authentic, and quite tradi­tional, appreciation for the communi­tarian meaning of "liturgy," "eucharist" and "church." rather than an "ultra­touchy and whiny attitude." as Mr. Cooney puts it. 
The liturgy is the "work of the people" giving praise and thanksgiving to God. It is the work of all the people, together. The community celebrating the eucharist, doing so as the church, shares one baptism, one profession of faith and one Christ. To paraphrase one theologian. the eucharist is a festival of the pew next to me. But there are a few 

uniqmily small town things that I rnally 
miss. 
My town is small enough that I actually live n<>xt door to my high school English teacher and across the street from my best friend. My window looks into my English teacher's garagP. I used to drive by her house late at night on my way home when we had turned in a big pro­_ject or paper that day in school, and if the lights were on. I would think lo myseif "Good! You stay up as late grading it as I stayed up doing it!" 
Another thing about small towns is the fact that you sometimes have the same teacher for several years in a row. We only had one band teacher in the whole town, so I started with him in fifth grade and ended with him as a senior. You can really get close to a t{mcher in eight years. My parents are divorced, and my mom used to live on his wav home, so every week or two. he would drop me off at her house after school and pick me up the next morning. 
That's an example of the kind of caring that only results from years of knowing someone. 
Probably the nicest thing about small towns is the trust. I went to ACE Hardware to get a key copied for my car last year. The lady made the key, handed me the copy and the original. and told me to go try the key on the door to see if it worked, and then come back in and pay. I could easily have taken off with my new key, but, of course, I didn't. 
So. you say, that's just a key. Small loss 
fellowship and love, a participation in the passover from sin to grace. It is not a graduation ceremony or a "fundrais­er-thank you," even though we rightful­ly celebrate the generosity of people within it. It is not about "space-man­agement." 
The introduction of rank and privilege into this reality -together with ushers to enforce this rank and privilege -is simply incompatible with the nature of the mass itself. With a block of 250 peo­ple given a place of privilege in the mid­dle of the Basilica, one can easily see why Ms. Hernandez felt shoved aside, and why it did not "fit" with what she, and everybody else, was doing there. Who was discourteous to whom? And more importantly. who was acting out a sense of the meaning of the mystery of the celebration and who wasn't? 
if I hadn't brought it back. My best small town story is from my father. The mouse for our computer was not working, so he took it in to the computer store in town (we only have one of those) and asked the guy what to do. The man said he needed a now mouse, and set about finding him one. 
Wlrnn he found it. my dad asked what he owed the guy. The guy told my dad to take it home and see if it worked with our computP.r, and if it did, to come back and pay. Now tell me that is not small town trust and honesty! (My father did, of course, go back and pay.) 
True, there are down­sides to small town life. The guys in my town 
have invented a sport that may be new to everyone else on earth callAd "mudding." In this sport. you take your car or, preferably, truck 
and go to a big muddy hill, where you proceed to four-wheel in the mud 

until it gets dark or you get stuck. Usually the latter. And I must admit that I did once meet a guy with a belt buckle larger than my hand. But despite the borndom and 
backwardness that can sometimes come with small towns, the peace, friend­liness and trust are soothing to the soul. 
Marlayna is a freshman Psychology major. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Mr. Cooney argues that the 5 p.m. mass in question is analogous to a wed­ding mass. It is worth pointing out, though. that a wedding is normally not held at a regularly scheduled mass time, and is a bit more personal. When my wife and I got married, our parents sat in the first row and everyone else just filled in. I've been to a lot of wed­dings. but I've never seen a huge chunk of space set aside in the manner described by Cooney and Hernandez. The Basilica needs to think this through. 
James Ball Graduate Student Theology March 22, 2000 

Tim rsJay, March 23,2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Sprewell leads Knicks to trouncing of Bulls 78-6 7 
bled the ball up court and Conference, while the Hawks Walker, went on a 20-8 run to Pistons 104, Trail Blazers 
Associa1ed Press 
passed to Peeler. who shot fell for the fifth time in six close the half and lead 53-42. 
95 
from the left corner as a games. The Clippers played without 
Grant Hill took over the 
stumbling •Pierce ran toward Atlanta was led by its leading scorer Maurice 
fourth quarter for a second
Latrell Sprewell swred 21 
him bench, as Dion Glover, Chris Taylor, who missed the game 
straight night, scoring 14 of
points and New York pro­Boston's only hope was slim Craw~rd and Lorenzen with a sprained left ankle. 
his 24 points in the period
duced its best defensive effort 
-tap the inbounds pass in Wright had I 8 apiece in the Derek Anderson led the 
Wednesday night as the
of the• season in a 78-67 victo­for a 3-pointer. losing cause. Clippers with 17 points, while 
Detroit Pistons rallied to beat
ry over tho Chicago I3ulls on 
It disappeared when Orlando jumped out to an Olowokandi added 14 points 
the Portland Trail Blazers
Wednesday. 
Garnett tipped the ball a.way early 28-18 advantage aftf'r a and six rebounds. 
104-95.
The virtory snapped a two­
from Anloine Walker. 13-4 spurt. capped by two 
Jerry Stackhouse added 23
game losing strrak for Ne" 
It was a tough defoat for the Armstrong free throws with 
points and Terry Mills had 14
York and was thP eighth con­Suns 114 Kings 93
Celtics, who had won seven of 2:33 left in the first stanza. 
of his 16 in the second half on
srcutivr loss for thP Bulls. J\n ankle injury to Jason
their previous nine games to The Magic held a 32-22 
4-of-5 3-point shooting for the
who have droppl•d 16 ol' their Kidd tempered the Phoenix
movP. 1 1/2 games behind advantage alter one courtesy 
Pistons, who have won three
17. Suns' 114-93 victory over the
Orlando for the final Eastern of eight Monty Williams 
straight road games after los­
Tim 67 points were the Sacramento Kings on
Conference playoff spot. points. 

ing their previous 11.
fr.west surrendf'red by the Wednesday night.
It also ended their f'ive­Atlanta slowly chipped away 
Rasheed Wallace and Steve
Knir:ks this season. The All-Star guard injured
gume home winning streak. at the Magic's lead during the 
Smith each scored 20 for the
New York led 61-55 enter­his left ankle with .2 seconds
Malik Scaly added 24 second quarter. pulling the 
Blazers, who led by as many
ing thP. fourth quarl!ir. but left in the first half while rac­
points, inducting two frne gamt1 even. 55-55, at the 
as 14 in the second quarter
Sprrwell and Larry Johnson ing the clock to take a shot.
throws that ended a five-point intermission on a Glover 
and 11 late in the third before
1-'arh scored four points in an Suns officials were uncer­
run and gave Minnesota a buckflt. G 

the Pistons started hitting
8-0 run that put thr. Knicks in tain of the extent of the
106-103 lead with 18 seconds Wright lf'd thtJ charge for 
shots from all over the floor.
control at 69-55. injury, and said Kidd was
to go. Atlanta with 12 first-half 
Backup Jerome Williams
Chicago. which madfi just taken for an MRI.
lie made all 13 or his free points, while Amaechi netted 
added 13 rebounds for the
onP l'il'ld goal in the first I] Cliff Hobinson sr.ored a
throws. Peeler scored 16. 14 for the Magic. 

Pistons, who shot 58 percent
minutes of thr frnirth poriod, game-high 26 points for the 
in the second half.
was n1'Vl'r ablt> to cut the Suns, who remained 1 1/2
76ers 106 Raptors 93 

Spurs 103 Clippers 78
Knicks !0ad to less than ninP. games ah1rnd of the San
Allen Iverson scored 44 

Tim l)uncan scored 30
the rest of the wav. Antonio Spurs for fourth place Lakers 119 Warriors 96
points. including 31 in thf1 

points in his best game since
Thf1 Hulls missed their first. in the Western Conference. Shaquille O'NP.al scored 14
second half, and Tyrone Hill 

returning from an injury, and
12 shots and fell behind 9-0. The Spurs beat the Los of his 22 points in the first
added 20 points and 12 

the San Antonio Spurs
But the Bulls hung in and Angeles Clippers 103-78 ear­eight minutes Wednesday
rebounds as the Philadelphia 

rebounded from an embar­
trailed by 10. at 49-39. on a lier Wednesday. night as the Los Angeles
76ers defeated the Toronto 

rassing loss to Dallas with a
short jumper by Elton Brand Reserve Rodney Rogers had Lakers took command early in
Raptors 106-93 Wednesday 

103-78 victorv over the Los
late in thr half. 18 points and Randy rolling to a 119-96 victory
night in a preview of a poten­

Angeles c·lippers on
Patrick Ewing and Charlie Livingston, subbing for Kidd, over the Golden State
tial first-round series in the 
Wednesday night.

Ward answered with baskP.ts added 17 for Phoenix. Warriors.
Eastern Conference playoffs. 

Samaki Walker came off the
for the Knir.ks. but Chicago Chris Webber, who battled The win was the fourth
Vinr.e Carter overcame a 

bench to tie his season high
closed to 4 7 -41 at tlrn half on foul trouble much of the straight and 23rd in 24 games
tough first half to score 26 

with 18 points for the Spurs,
Chris Carr's jumper two sec­game, scored 16 points to for the Lakers, whose 57-12
points. 

who blew a 22-point to Dallas
onds beforn thP buzzer. lead Sacramento. record is the NBA's best. The
Tracy McGrady added 20 

in Tuesday night's 97-96 loss.
Ewing addf'd 12 points and Vlade Divac and Jason Warriors have lost three in a
for Toronto. which lost its 

Spurs forward Sean Elliott
Allan llouston had 11 l'or the Williams each had 14 for the row and 13 of their last 15.
ser.ond straight game after 

scored six points in 19 min­
Knicks. while Brand led Kings, who saw their three­O'Neal left the game for
winning 11 of 12. 

utes, marking his best pro­
Chicago with 22 points and 13 game winning streak good with 39 seconds left in

It was the fourth straight 

duction in his five games
rebounds. snapped. the third quarter and the
victory f'or the 76ers, who 

since returning from a kidney 
The Suns hit 16 of 24 shots Lakers leading 95-70.
pulled into a tie with Toronto 
transplant. 

to outscore the Kings 38-22 Adonal Foyle and Bill Curley
Timberwolves 109, for the fourth spot in the _con­
Duncan had an easy time 
en route to an 88-74 lead tried to guard O'Neal without
ference at 39-28.

Cletics 106 handling Los Angeles defend­
after three quarters. success, and Foyle picked up
Anthony PePl<'r's 3-pnint ers Keith Closs and Michael 
Everything reversed in the his fifth foul early in the third
Magic 103 Hawks 90

bask(1t with two-tenths of a Olowokandi. 
second quarter as Phoenix, period.
Darrell Armstrong poured

sPrond IPl't ,rnd Kevin Duncan, who missed for 
which shot 70 percent in the Kobe Bryant added 18
in 27 points and dished out 10

Garnrtt·s carPPr-high 40 games from Feb. 25-March 4 
first period (14-of-20), missed points and Glen Rice had 17
assists and John Amaechi

points gave thc l\tinnosota with an abdominal injury, hit 
nine of its first 12 field-goal for the Lakers. Rice also sat
added 16 points. to lead the

l'imbl~rwolvr.s a 109-lO(i win 12-of-20 shots and also attempts. out the fourth quarter.
Orlando Magic to a 103-90

ovPr tlH' B,iston Celtics on grabbed 11 rebounds. 
The Suns went 5:42 without O'Neal, who watched the
win over the Atlanta Hawks at 

The Clippers took a 16-9
Wr.dncsday night. a field goal and committed 11 entire second period from the
the 0-Rena. 

lead and held the advantage
Paul Pit'rre had tied the of their 18 first-half bench, scored six points in the
Orlando won its second 

ganw at I06 with a 3-pointer midway through the second turnovers. first 4:10 of the third quarter
straight contest to remain in 
quarter.

with 6.7 seconds remaining. to spark a 17-3 run. putting
sole possession of the eighth

TrrrPll Brandon thrn drib-But the Spurs, keyed by 
the Lakers ahead 82-48.
playoff soot in the Eastern 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m, ar ,he Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Halt. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds fot content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
dren, ages 7&8. Mon-Fri,7:30AM-room with Fireplace, Fenced 3:15PM. Jun 12-Aug 18 Granger. Backyard, CIA Gas Heat, Across Lewis Crush-will you be asked? NOTICES WANTED 272-6107 or 284-3485 From Park, Very Safe 
FOR SALE 

Neighborhood $995/mo. 12 mo. THE COPY SHOP www.maincampus.com seeks stu­South Bend based company seeks lease LaFortune Student Center dents !or stories ranging !rom talented graphic designer. Call 232-4527 Close to Campus New Phone Card Yes, the withdraw! is beginning. Store Hours Politics/Sex/Culture/opinions Advanced PhotoShop and other 219-340-1B44616-683-503B 886 mins. $20 But then, I have to get Grab ono Go Mon-Thur: 7:30am·Mid $25 per story! design software skills required. 258-4805 or 243-9361 every day so I keep seeing the Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Email us at: Send resume. salary requirements Look! New Home for Rent 3/4 office. Sat: Noon-6:00pm earn@maincampus.com and por1folio samples to: Personnel Bedroom 3 Bath, Cathedral Horne for sale: 3 BR, 2 8th, 2000 Sun: Noon•Mid Dept Po Box 30 Notre Dame, IN Ceilings, Fireplace. Refrig, Range, sq ft+ full basement, 2 car gar. 5 Free Pick-Up & Delivery' The South Bend Parks & 46556 Disp.Dish, Washer & Dryer.Gas min from ND, $99K. By appt. 288-JM-Sorry I canot be there to be Call 631-COPY Recreation Department (The Ci1y of heat/ CIA, 2-car garage.Family 9167 among the mad. But toll be mad in Weore open late so your order will South Bend) is currently accepting South Bend based company is room.Close to Campus. spirit. Wait, that sounds bad. be done on time! applications for golf rangers, con­presently in search o! a dynamic 616-683-5038 Beautiful brass bed, queen size. Anyway, it might be too late. 
cessions, beverage cart drivers accomplished IT professional/Web 219-232-4527 with onhopedic mattress set and Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls (must be 21) and other seasonal guru for the development of its new 219-340-1844 deluxe frame. New, never used, still SR-I miss you. Leave it to my first Research. httpJlwww. help. Pay ranges lrom $6.00-$8.00 internet business team. Successful in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 night holding down the fort and geocilies.com:80/Athensl per hour. Apply at the County City candidate possesses advanced NICE HOMES FOR NEXT www.thecommentator.com weove got 36 pages. And I bet Rhodes/7031/deadsea.html Bldg. 14th floor EoE computer skills and has an exten­SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA youore at Sr. Bar! :) 
sive knowledge of all aspects of NORTH 2773097 HELPI I need two extra !ix for grad­web management, graphic/techni­Yay, SMCers at CJs tonight. ltos uation. If you can help me, please cal design and programming. Staying for the summer? 2 bed­time to celebrate a week of hard 
LOST & FOUND 
call Rachel@ 246-1702. Forward resume to: Human room. 2 bath apanment for lease, work. Dnot miss it.
PERSONAL 

Resource Dept. Po Box 30 Notre Washer/dryer, ust off campus. Call FOUND: Metal watch in Hesburgh SUMMER INTERSHJPS CON­Dame, IN 46556 4-4238 if interested. Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING Library Call Tim to identify@ 247-STRUCTION MANAGEMENT services are available at 1107 Pierce Assoc, !nc. a large regional IT'S NOT TOO LATE THE COPY SHOP LaFortune All I have to say is I want to go to 
mechanical contractor with. A newly remodeled 5 bedroom Student Center Call 631 ·CoPY bed. Now. I want my bed now.
FOR RENT 

headquaners in Washington. D.C. house 1s still available ot rent for teh FOUND: Beaded arrowhead neck­wil be on campus 3123 • 3124 hold­fall semester. 2 full baths, wash­lace. Claim at observer office. base­ing interviews for summer 2000 HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed­er&dryer. huge rec room, security FULL COLOR These scary o's will be haunting me ment ol South Dining Hall positions. Interested engineering or room, $1000/month. 2) 4-bedroom. system. Call now to see. 277-0636. Copying for years to come. I hate them. 
business majors should Immediate­$900/month. 3) 3-bedroom, $700. Printing ly forward resumes to Cati Bill at 675·0776. Weoll make FOR RENT FoR FALL SEMESTER Scanning jdunleavy@pierceassociates.com almost any changes to the houses. 4 bedroom, 2 full baths, washer & Isn't it Friday yet?? 
dryer, basement with hot 1ub, new THE CoPY SHoP furnace, security system. Call for a LaFortune Student Center SUMMER JOB'. Caregiver; two Chil-1721 Rerick 3 Bedroom, Family showing 277-0636 Call 631-COPY 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Julia Roberts shines as 'Erin Brockovich' 
By CASEY K. McKLUSKEY Scene l\lovic Critic 
Julia Roberts is back on the screen in one of her most impressive roles yPt, playing thP tit!P role in thP movie: "Erin Brockovich." 
This movie is based on tho real life story of Erin Brorkovich. a woman full of spitfire ·who would do anything to puL food on thr' table for her three young children. Unfortunately, because of her lark of education. rnosl Pmploycrs f1oPl Hrockovich is not qual­ified !'or tbe jobs that she applies for. This does not slop Brockovich. though. Whrn shP i.s down Lo watching dozens of people fall ill to a variety of' diseases. The result is a true David and <;oliath class c1ction suit that attempts to bring at least monetary compensation to the vic­tims. 
For the first time in her life. Erin is respected as a professional at her job. but the job is keeping her away from her family and the firsL man (Aaron EckharU who cvnr respertP.d hPr for being a mother. 
Director Steven Soderb1•rgh docs a masterful job with lhf' rharactPrs hr is working with. lie dor:s not porlray Brockovich as a perfect saint. She is a complex character with both rmlear-


hc>r last pcnni,~s "Erin Brockovich" in the bank, shi-) walks into her lawver's offire anct' demands a 

0111 ufffue shamrocks 

job, refusing lo lravf' until she is Director: Steven Soderbergh 
givPn one. !Irr crass atti-Starring: Julia Roberts, Albert 
tude. truck-dri-Finney and Aaron Eckhart ver vocabulary. and uniquo wardrobe raise quite a fow eyebrows in the small firm. but these qualities, along with her hard-work. energy. and compassion. endear her to the firm's head lawyer, Ed Masry. played brilliantly by Albert Finney. While working on one of the firm's new real estate cases. Brockovich cannot figure out why there are med­ical rncords in with the real estate information. Upon further investiga­tion. she learns that a national utilitv company has been knowingly poison·­ing the groundwater in a small town. This company has been turning its back on the community and pretend­ing to help the small town while 
MOVIE REVIEW 
De Palma's 'Mission' too friendly for its own good 
ByV. VAN BUREN GILES 
Scene Movie Critic 
"Mission to M.trs" is a great chil­dren's film. That must be said first because usually when people hear the name Brian De Palma they think of violf'nt gangster nlms like "Scarface" and "The Untouchables." But those 1:xpccting to seP a gruesome. bloody, f'uturistir space voy­
ag<' are in for a 
"Mission to Mars" and Hobbins to

rude awakening. comr, rescue their 
''Mission to Mars" 
buddv from thr 
.. :J~). ·:c-. .

is vPrY friendlv and ,;jiJ '-'>,;} .i. horrn;·s of the rnd 111noc·1,nt to· the 
planet.point of it bring a out offive s/wmmcks C!H)ad!P's char­clrnesv scieucP fic­
acter discovers tion lfir.k. It's about Director: Brian De Palma intelligent lifr on 
a closely knit group the dosolatfi planet of astronauls who Starring: Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, when an enormous art! prt\paring a trip 
Don Cheadle, Connie Nielsen and Jerry !'ace is r1;vealed on 

to l\lars. IL is a 
O'Connell

·· po p (' o r n " fl ic k l o say the least and one often wonders if these shiny, 
happy peop!.e exist in real life. 
The characters arc introdur:ed at a family pirnic on the eve of thP; launr.h, sharing in each others' joys and fears about the mission, Garv Sinise ("Snake Eyes." "Hansom"! ·plays an astronaut who has been saddened by the rr•cf'nt loss of his wife and has troublr readjusting to his NASA duties, Tim Robbins i"The Shawshank He:demption." "Jn<'ob's lad<lPr"J plays 
movie like 
ing qualities and per-
so,~~~~;~~"· takes 
th is ch aractr,r and portrays her with such honesty and charisma that it brings thr, film to a higher lfivcl. This is onf' of Roberts' best perfor­mances vet. The movie hinges o~ her. She suc­ceeds in keeping the audience inlc)rcstPd in this onp, ntse wherr. a "A Civil Action" failed. 
Brockovich is the type ol' f,haracter that charms an audience because of her sharp-tongued wit and hometown girl compassion, She says things that most people only dream of saying -or think to sav about a half hour too late. 
If Roberts had not delivered in this role. the whole film would have fallen apart. Not only does Hoberls deliver, she is able lo elevalR other actors in the film as well. Albert Finney is won­derful as Masry, the old ornery lawyer who needs someone like Brockovirh to kick him in the rear every once in awhile. He is able to return the favor to Brockovich too. The chemistry 
Sinisc's friend and co-worker who will stick his neck out to get his friPnd bar,k in the controller's sMt of a mission. Don Cheadle ("Boogie Nights." "Out of Sight") is the third member of' the space-bound trio, llis role as space captain for the mission takes a horrifying turn.resulting in the strange deaths of his fellow astronauts. lie is the, only surviving member of the original team and iL is 
now up to Sinisn 
the dcsi~rt l'loor by a monstrous torna­do that claimed tho other astronauts' lives. This giant twister makes for some superb spr,­cial effects as does lhe giant face. 
which is discovnrnd  to  be  an  alien  
artifact.  
The l'ilm has  some  verv  childlike  

and warm qualities to it. 'Each char­acter has a special. loving g'low about them as well as a strong sense of duty to the mission. Some of the dialogue is hilarious -it resembles the weak !1L1mor and melodrama l'rom early bntween these two shines through on the scrnnn as they banter back and forth with each other. They poth seem to be exactly what the other needs, 

Aaron Eckhart plays George. a street smart Harlev-lover who moves next door. Brockovich, who has been divorced twice, does not exactly trust men anymore. George seems too good to be true. but he proves to be the man Brockovich has been looking for. He loves the kids as if they were his own and respects what Brockovich is trying to do. Their relationship adds an extra depth to the film that makes it more enjoyable. 
Although this film may seem to have more appeal to women, do not write it off as only a chick flick. Erin Brockovich may be someone that many women may admire, but she is the type of person anyone can cheer !'or. 
In these last weeks before the Oscars, few new movies come out and even fewer are worth the cost of a ticket or the time of the movie. "Erin Brockovich" is a film that is worth it. 

Star Trek television episodes 
It is not diff'icull to notice strong simi!aritir,s to Stanley Kubrir.k's leg• r,ndary, sci-ri classic "2001: A Space Odyssey." 
..Mission to Mars" is a mix of fanta­sy and family that leavr,s the audii~nce with feelings like those provided by Hallmark greeting cards and the 80's song "We are thP-World." 
Check it out for a new look at future spacr exploration. But definitely go for th<' laugh of seeing Gary Sinise with blonde highlights and what looks to be eyeliner and mascara that he sports in every scene. 

Thursday, March 23, 2000 page 19 
OSCAR WATCH 
And the loser is • • • almost everyone 
With four losers for every winner, the biggest Oscar party is a party for losers 
supporting actor. His performance was a By JASON HAMMONTREE partic:ular favorite of the critics that year. Scene Movie Criu~ 
Another picture that many felt was unfair­
ly left out was "Out of Sight." the George 
With th!' !\cadcrny ,\wards only days Clooney-JPnnifer Lopez dark comedy, awav and tlw stolen Oscar statur,ttcs which had won the New York Film Critics 11naliv r<'roverPd. thf\ nomimws for this Best Picture Award. y1•ar·~ PVPnl can bcgin work on lhc hard­But the most interesting snub of that Psl and most important part of the year was Jim Carrey's performanr:c in i'Wning: tlw loser's smile With four losors "The Truman Show." Ho won a Golden J'or f'VPrv winner. most actors must work Globe for the movie, yet did not got a best hard to iwrf'cct that gritty grin lh11t is dis­act.or nomination. That scenario repeated play1•d upon hearing anotlrnr porson itself this year. with Carrcy again winning rallPd to Uw podium. A grin that says, "Oh the Golden Globe for his performance as yPs. you ar<' such a deserving winner," comedian /\ndy Kaufman in "Man on the ,\ hi!P underneath that tee thy, locked-jaw Moon." But again. come Oscar time, both smil!'. tlw i>xplctivcs and ('0mments about Carrcy and the film go empty handed. tlw winnrr's outfit ran be unlf'ashr.d. It is Two ''Best Snubs" in a row: Way to go a smilr• so absnlutdv l'akl'. and vPL so ncc­Jim! Whal makes Carrev·s snubs so f'Ssary. lo avoid being raught ()~ [cir.vision provocative (and entertaining) is not that \\'ith a death stan' as cmr's nanw is not he was necessarily deserving of the nomi­rnllPd. nations, but that he refuses to "grin and 
Sonw of Llw nominC'es and winners bear it." lie has spoken openly many 
sPr.m obvious: others leavr, us shaking our Limes on how he "was robbed." 
!wads. In this wondprf'ully spiteful spirit. Which brings us to this year's Oscar 
Scnm· thought il would be fun to take a race. We can only talk about the "Best 
look at thr losers of the past few years. Snub" nominees right now. of course. 
l,tnd thos1' not l'Ven nnminatodL in anoth­We'll have to wait until Monday lo cry foul 
er imponant movie category: "Best Oscar over the winners. But already there has 
Snubs." been much talk on the films that were left 
W(•ll bPgin with the 1997 awards, the out of the show. Entertainment Weekly 
so-called Yfmr ol' the Independent Film. called 1999 the best year of film ever. 
That year r.ritks and film punditc; pontifi­with so many wildly inventive films made. 
rntPd about lhf' death of lhP studio picture ture. 1998 was the Year of "Titanic," in all that was not without some exciting snubs Many then were disappointed when films 
and thP lack of vision and ('rr,ativitv to bP its big-studio, bigsbudget glory. It's hard and controversy. The first "Best Snub" such as "Being John Malkovich." 
found there. for thr. truly great niatures to remember other films from that year -occurred with the early favorite "Saving "Election," "Three Kings" and "Fight 
wc'rl' in the low-budget independent films. were any other films even nominated? Private Ryan" failing to win best picture. Club" received few. if any, nominations. 
This hubbub started when the best pir­But though "Titanic" recciwd a whopping Now, "Shakespeare in Love" was a Other snubs include "The Talented Mr. 
tu rP nominees for that year were 13 nominations, winning 11. there was deserving film. but there was a feeling Ripley," Minghella's first since "The 
announced, and "Jerry McGuire" stood as also one ''Best Snub" for the film. Mr. that the Oscar had been bought because English Patient," which only got one "big" _ 
the only big-budget studio film nominated Leonardo DiCaprio was not nominated for of Miramax's strong push for the film. The nomination (Jude Law for best supporting 
(the other four: "Fargo," "Secrel'i & Lies," best actor. Lest you think this kid is some amount that they spent promoting actor). And, "The Hurricane" received 
"Shine" and "The English Patient"). ac:ting slouc:h. remember that he was "Shakespeare" (especially to the Academy only one nod (Denzel Washington for best 
Thf' /\cadf'my had rewarded the smaller nominated in 1 993 for a terrific perfor­voters) made many feel that the integrity actor). That film was hurt by questions 
films and the wonderful performances in mance in "What's Eating Gilbert Grape." of the awards had been compromised. over the film's bending of the truth. and it 
thrm: and WC' were introduced to artors And so, while everyone and their brother This sort of thing arose again this year wiped out virtually all its support. 
likP Emily Walson. William I!. Macy and got to go on stage for "Titanic:," Leo sat at during the Golden Globes, when Sharon And so. the snubbing continues. 
Edward Norton. and dirertors like home. watching the show on television. Stone, wanting a nomination for her work Enjoy the broadcast Sunday night. And 
Anthony Minghella. whose "The English !Although. don't worry Leo. None of the in "The Muse," sent gold watches to mem­when the winners are called. watch the 
Patient" swr.pt the big awards. For once, performances from that movie won an bers of the Foreign Press, who vote for losers use their pearly whites to try and 
it ser.med that the AradPmy had gotten it Oscar.) those awards. The watches were eventu­draw attention away from their beady lit­
right. Tlw desPrving wern nominated. and 1999 was an exciting year. which saw ally returned. tle eyes. And if that doesn't work. they can 
tlw clPSf\l'Ving won. But no "Best Snub" "Shakespeare in Love," "Saving Private Other "Best Snubs" for last year includ­always be like Carrey and claim they were 
winrwrs is liltlP f'un. so let's move on. Hyan" and "Lifo is Beautiful" duke it out ed the movie "Hushmore," especially the snubbed. Good luck and may the "Best 
If 1997 was thl' yHar of tlw small fea-for the year's best. and an awards show failure to nominate Bill Murray for best Snub" go to the sorest loser. 
Box OFFICE 


Weekend of March L7-L9 
Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales 
1. 
Erin Brockovich $ 21.8 million $ 21.8 million 

2. 
Mission to Mars $ 11.4 million $ 40.6 million 

3. 
Final Destination $ 10.1 million $ 10.1 million 

4. 
My Dog Skip $ 5.3 million $ 21.6 million 

5. 
The Ninth Gate $ 3.5 million $ 12. 5 million 

6. 
The Whole Nine Yards $ 3.2 million $ 51. l million 

7. 
American Beauty $ 3.2 million $ 103.1 million 

8. 
The Cider House Rules $ 2.5 million rt-.µ 56.4 million 

9. 
Snow Day $ 2.2 million $ 56.4 million 

10. 
The Tigger Movie $ 1.8 million $ 41.6 million 


Source: Yahoo! 
Photo courtesy of Universal Pictures 




VIEWPOINT 
THI: 

Thursday, March 23, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Memories of a true friend 

Throughout my three years at Saint Mary's College, I have encountered some of the most amazing and remarkable women that I will ever have the chance to know. These women have proven to be faithful friends, voices of reason and comfort in times of sorrow. It is in this spirit that I can call myself truly blessed to have known and loved Kristi Morris -not only did she meet all of the aforementioned criteria, but she far exceeded it. 
Kristi truly was the epitome of the ideal woman: she gracefully walked the fine line between wildness and groundedness. I will never fully understand how she managed to maintain such a complex paradoxical exis­tence, but I will forever be in awe of every aspect of her life. 
l\ot only was Kristi stunning on a physical level, her beauty was offset by the depth of her faith and her hon­est concern for those around her. Few of us have the capacity to love as Kristi did, nor do we have the persev­erence to keep fighting in the face of adversity. With her knowledge in social work and her understanding of the human psyche. Kristi was a resource for me in my deal­ing ·with high school students. 
lam currently student teaching at a local high school, and one group of students had driven me to the point of complete frustration the last time that Kristi and I spoke. She gave me a kiss on the forehead and told me, "Ellen, teaching is what you've always wanted to do in life. Don't you dare let one group of kids take that right away from vou." She assured me, as she walked out the door. that she would be praying for me in my time of need. It is with great hope, amidst this time of sorrow, that I know that my prayers will now be personally answered. 
There is no doubt that heaven has brought one of'it's own back home in the passing of Kristi Morris, and I con­sider myself incredibly blessed and my life enriched for the time that we were allowed to borrow with this angel here on earth. Kristi will be forever missed by those who knew and loved her. but her memory will undoubtedly serve as inspiration to anyone who hears the story of her remarkable life. Kristi, we love and miss you, but we wait in anticipation for the day that we may join you in your new life I can never thank you enough just for let­ting me bask in the radiance that was your earthly life. I am forever in debt to you, Angel. 
Ellen Anderson 
Senior Otl~Campus March 21, 2000 

What's on your mind? 
viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
OBSERVER page 20 
Conflicting with Catholic teachings 
In rncent weeks the PSA (Progressive Sturlent Allianr.el has been urging the University Task force on Anti-Sweatshop Initialives and President Malloy to accPpt two proposals or demands. The Todd David first is to join 
Whitmore 
the Workers' Rights Consortium; 

The Common the sP.cond is Gnod 
t.o withdraw from the Fair Labor Association. 

/\ March 7th letter signed by nine memlmrs of the PSA invoked "'Catholic Social Teaching" to put the message in no uncertain terms. "If the University of Notre name does not leave the Fl.A and join the WHC by March 27, 2000, we will take this as a message that tho University prefers to protect tho interests of its corporate funders rather than following Catholic Social Teaching by acting in soli­darity with the working poor." Other PSA documents and state­ments refer to Catholic social teaching in a similar way. 
This invocation of Catholic social teaching -both the fact of it and the manner in which it is done ­raises a number of points for reflection. Mv own sense is that there is a fai~ amount of affinity between the general aims of the PSA and the concerns of Catholic social teaching. Both seek to address the needs of the poor. The official church statement that comes to mind when l think of the PSA at its best comes from the introduction to the 1971 Synod of' Bishops' "Justice in the World": "Action on behalf ofjustice and participation in the transformation of the world fully appear to us as a constitutive dimension of the preaching of the Gospel, or, in other words, of the Church's mis­sion for the redemption of the human race and its liberation from every oppressive situation." 
If we take the statements by the PSA as they are written, however, there am some difficulties when we move from general affinities with Catholic teaching to specific claims. The first is that some of the PSA statements appear to view corpora­tions and the market economy within which they function to be intrinsically evil. I know that this is the view of a significant number of persons who are active in and sup­portive of the development of the Workers' Rights Consortium. ThH above-quoted PSA letter also refers to "the corporate-contaminated FLA." While Catholic social teach­ing may be drawn upon to con­demn the practkes of particular corporations, it does not condemn the market economy itself as fun­damentally evil. Important hero is the distinction, made clearest in John Pau1 Irs "Laborcrn excrcens" and "Centesimus annus" bntwce11 the free economy -a market econ­omy with moral ·and juridical limits -and capitalism -an economy where the market logic overruns all other considerations. For the Pope, this is a distinction with a dilfor­encc; for many persons backing the WRC, it is a distill(;tion without a difference. The PSA is at best unclear on the matter. 
What is clear is the implication in the PSA's statement that any policy proposal that does not match up verbatim with it own is necessarily at odds with Catholic social teach­ing. This is the Sflcond difticulty in their claim of representing that teaching. Absent here is the distinc­tion, central in Church teaching, between general principles and specific applications. Paragraphs 8 through 12 of the American Catholic bishops' "The Challenge of Peace" are apropos here. "At times we reassert universally binding moral principles ... at other times we apply moral principles to specif­ic cases. When making applica­tions of these principles we realize ~ and we wish our readers to rec­ognize -that prudential judg­rmmts are involwd bas1id on specif­ic circumstances which can change or which can be interpreted differ­ently by poople of good will." This does not mean that all judgments are equal or that none are out of bounds, only that the application of principles lo specific circumstances is not as univocal as the PS/\ letter implies. 
The bishops' reference to "people of good will" points to the third dif­ficulty with the PSA statement. The suggestion that the Task Force and President Malloy, if they do not support the PSA's specific pol­icy proposal, necessarily "prefer to protect the interests of corporate funders" over the obligation to protect the well-being of the working poor is a charge of bad will. 
I am on the Task Force. By now my columns have made dear that I do not "prefer to pro­tect the inter­ests of corpo­rate funders." To say that I -or any other mem­ber of the Task Force or President Malloy-arc such corpo­rate lackeys simply because we support remaining in the FIA would be like the countercharge that if Aaron Kreider and the PSA disagree with our specific proposals then they are necessari­ly radical wannabes trying to keep up with the Wisconsins and the Penns. Both depictions are inaccurate and unfair. 
The fourth dillicultv is that the PSA proposal focuses more on who Notre Dame associates with than the substance of tho recom­mendations of the Task Force ­thus far unanimously supported in the Task Force and adopted by President Malloy. Concerns about association arc important, particu­larly when the act or entity associ· ated with is intrinsically evil, as it is, for instance, in debates on Catholic health agencies in relation to abortion. Perhaps the PSA's accent on dL"iassociation with the FLA docs arise out of a conviction that corporations are intrinsically evil, 
Ifwe focus on the substance of the proposals, what is illuminated is the degree of agreement between the Task Force recommendations and the concerns of the PSA. In fact, a recent South Rend Tribune artide on Mr. Kreider and tlw PSA cites them as claiming significant credit for the Task Force's recom­mendations. If we l'ocus on the question of' association, it is not clear that Catholic social teachi11g cashes out the way the PSA wants it to. Many persons who ar<> active in devnloping the \VRC are Marxist, communist. and atheist. Mr. Kreider describes himself as a Marxist. There are many more con­demnations in Catholic teaching of these latter sets of belief as l'unda­mentally evil than there are of' Ow market economy as such. 
Paul VI, who is sympathetic with mur.h that socialism attempts to achieve for workers, writes in "Octogesima adveniens," that "the Christian who wishes to live his faith in a political activity which he thinks of as service cannot without contradicting himself adhere to ide­ological systems which radically or substantially go against his faith and his concept of man. He cannot 
adhere to the Marxist ideology, to its atheistic materialism." Wfl can debate the meaning of "Marxism" and whether it necessarily involves atheis­tic materialism, but the point is clear: the ques­tion of association cuts both ways. The final difficulty 
with the PSA's invo­cation of Catholic social teaching is 
that it remains on that level. There is no argument from 
concepts to pro­posals, no citation of texts (not even selective and ten­
dentious proof­texting). There is only reference to "Catholic Social Teaching" and no more. 
This raises the question of whether the PS/\ is serious about the teaching or 
rather is using it simply because the phrase "Catholic 
Social Teaching" has rhetorical lever­age in the present 
context. The PSA should either draw deeply and fairly l'rom 
the sources (thflre are texts that would back much of what the PSA supports) or drop any pre­
text -if it is that -of commitment to the tradition. If I at any point think that 

the response of the university to the issue of sweatshops is at odds with Catholic teaching, I will say so, and so will the other members of the Task Force. That is why we were formed as a Task Force by President Malloy in the first place: to re-examine and correct where necessary tho existing code of con­duct for our licensees in light of Catholic teaching and other insights. If I do feel compelled to speak, I will do so through argu­ment, drawing from the texts and with as much fairness as I am capable of manifesting. 
Todd David Whitmore is an assis­tant professor ofTheology. His col· umn appears in the Observer every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Thursday, March 23, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 21 
Calendar of Events 
Senior Retreat #2 (Mar. 31-Apr.1) Sign.Up 
Deadline to sign-up is March 30 103 Hesburgh Library • For information, call Clare SumvJn,at 631,-3389 
Retreat for Gay and Lesbian Undergraduates and Friends (Mar. 31-Apr. 1) Deadline for sign-up is March 30 ' 112 Badin For information, call Fr. Tom doyle, c,s.c. at 631-3391 Or Tami Schmitz at 631-3016 
Freshmen Retreat #29 (April '7~) Sign-Up Monday, March 6 through Monday; 
T3 103 Hesburgh Library Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cava Farley, Fisher. Pangborn, Morrissev,"Star\.f lsh Family 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, March 24-25 Fatima Retreat Center 
Retreat for Ministries at the Basilica 
Saturday, March 25, 9:30 asm, •12~30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Meet at Earth Sciene(;)s for snacks at 9:30 a.m:/ 
10:00 -12:30. at tne Basilica 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, March 28,J';OOp.m. . Badin Hall Chapel .. 


Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, March 29, 8;00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesday, March 29, 10:00-10:3Op,m. Walsh Hall Chapel 
Third Sunday of Lent 
Weekend Preslders Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, March 25 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. John A. Herman, C.S.C Sunday, March 26 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, C.S.C 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Patrick M. Neary, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for This Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Ex 20: 1~17  
2nd Reading  1 Cor 1: 22-25  
Gospel  Jn 2: 13-25  

WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
Chris Etzel & Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
They were both seniors. They had dated for almost two years. Graduation was looming in their future. They both were interview­ing for jobs. They felt that this relationship was special; they were serious about each other. But they just weren't sure what the next step was. Should they look for jobs in the same city or should they test the relationship with some distance? Should they get engaged now or should they work for a year or two first and establish some career goals? We all know them, or "couples" just like them. 
Well this particular pair came into the Campus Ministry Office one day hoping for some information. Perhaps we had a compatibil­ity test they might take to see if they were truly meant for each other. Did we have any articles they might read? Did we have any advice on what they should do? 
They caught us off guard. This was a new twist. Though we had offered programs for engaged couples for many years, we had not really thought about this category of couple; what should we call them? "Serious but not yet committed?" "Pre-engaged?" We were greatly impressed that a couple would so seriously question their future as to come to our office for advice. Yet a program for the engaged would not be appropriate for this couple. They were still exploring their relationship -the decision was not yet made; and the decision might eventually be to not continue the relationship. What could we do for couples like these? 
After much discussion we focused on some of the issues and ques­tions facing couples in significant relationships: -How can we determine if we're really ready for marriage? -Should we try to find jobs or graduate schools that are in the same city? -How will a long distance relationship affect us? -How can you express your true feelings without pressuring for commitment? -How will the demands of career/graduate school affect our relation­ship? -How might differences in our families of origin affect our relation­ship? -How can we communicate better? 
After identifying the issues we put together a program and called it "What's the Future of this Relationship?" It includes some presentations on the stages of relationships and decision-making. While we were able to avoid "compatibility tests", we did include a marriage expectations quiz. There is time for answering questions and a lot of time for discussing answers with your partner. There is a discussion period for questions. There is a folder of articles for addi­tional information and reflection. 
What most couples seemed to enjoy about the program was the time and the opportunity to discuss their relationship, especially areas or topics they hadn't considered before. 
If you are in a significant relationship and are asking the kinds of questions listed above we encourage you to attend the pro­gram this semester. 
"What's the Future of this Relationship?" will take place Sunday, April 9, from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Pre-registration is required. Registration papers can be obtained in both Campus Ministry Offices (Library Concourse and Badin Hall). The registra­tion deadline is Thursday, April 6. Unfortunately, space is limited to 25 couples. There is no cost for the program. If you have any ques­tions, please call Chris Etzel, Sylvia or John Dillon at 631-5242. 
-CAJv1PUS 
tv11NISTRY 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 23, 2000 
Jordan plans to leave endorsements 
done." Jordan told the Chicago
Associated Press 
Sun-Times. "But thev under­stand from convc~salions
Michael Jordan. always the we·ve had wherp, my lifo is 
scene stealer, is looking for 
headed. They have to gradual­
more work heh.ind the scenes. 
ly work their way into otherThe former Chicago Bulls 
r.ampaigns."
superstar who made numer­David Falk. his agent. said ous appearances in commer­Jordan intends to honor his
cials for Nike shoes. Hanes 
existing contracts, which could
underwear. Wheaties cereal 
include additional commercialand McDonald's burgers was work in the years ahead.
quoted in a Chicago newspa­In addition, Falk said Jordan 
per on WP:dnesday as saying 
may appr,ar in ads for busi­he was "getting totally oul of 
nesses he owns like the online
the endorsement aspect of sporting goods startup
things" when his current con­MVP.com lhal he formed wilh tracts expire. 
John Elwav and Wavne
His agent said he wanted to Grelzky. • • 
develop himself as more of an Falk said .lordan didn't wantinvestor and businessman. 
to do "the traditional kind of
"I told thf' endorsement 
product endorsements that he
companies to go ahead and 
has done." 
use the commercials I'vc 
T/Je Norne Dame Music Depall.Tmenr prusenrs 
NOTRe Dame Glee Club Sp~!,~tf~.~~e1tT 
woRks l;y JosQum, Isaac, Srnauss, ano Penoe1<ecki; FoLk songs ano spm.irnaLs 
TbuRsoay&FRlOay, MaRch 23 & 24, 2000 8 pm, Wasbin(JTOn Hall 
The conwzrs a1<.e fRU and open w r/Je puBLzc. 
FOR 01O/ZE WFORmanon, call 631-6201 OR VISIT WWW.no.eou/-music. 

Holy Cross: 
Men for aNew Millennium 


ANSWER ~ THECALL '<!::/ 


Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
3rd print~ng . 50,000 copies m pnnt 

"Horowitz
•

IS a clear and ruthless thinker. 
What he says has an indignantsanity about it.'' 
-TIME Magazine 
Available at bookstores or call (800) 752-6562 
www.frontpagemag.com 
Spence Publishing ISBN: 1-890626-21-X $24.95 

-

Thursday, M:mh 23, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 23 ­

WITHOUT GOING ON 
, 
-
'
T.V. 

' 
THE SIBC ENCOURAGES YOU TO LEARN HOW... 
JOIN 

CYRUS F. FRIEDHEIM JR., '57 OF ND 
VICE CHAIRMAN OF BOOZ-ALLEN & HAMILTON, INC. 
-' 
HE WILL BE SPEAKING ABOUT HIS BOOK 
THE TRILLION-DOLLAR ENTERPRISE 
FRIDAY, MARCH 24TH 10:45-11 :45am 
I
JORDAN AUDITORIUM, COBA • I 

page 24 The Obmver . SPORTS 
NCAA 
Gonzaga prepares for NCAA 
Associated Press 
Gonzaga coach Mark Few says the better his team does in the NCAA tournament. the harder it is for tho Bulldogs to schedule big-name teams dur­ing the regular season. 
The 10th-seeded Bulldogs, in their third NCAA tournament.. have again made an impres­sion by toppling Louisville and St. John's. 
Oddsmakers in Las Vegas favor the Bulldogs as a point over No. 6 seed Purdue in the West llegional semifinal. The Boilermakers have b1rnn to the tournament 16 times and the round of 16 four times under coach Gene Keady. 
"Scheduling is probably harder than recruiting at Gonzaga," Few said. 
"We don't get to play Purdue on our homf' floor. we never get to play LouisviIIe on our home floor, or St. John's on our home floor. For us to play those games. we have to go on the road." 
Maybe the oddsmakers ­and the other big-time pro­grams -have taken into account that Gonzaga has reached the regional semifi­nals for the second straight year and is 5-1 in the tourna­ment in the span. 
At any rate, those statistics have made it harder for the Bulldogs to schedule attractive opponents at home. Plus, they play in the relatively unknown West Coast Conference, which includes the likes or Pepperdine, Santa Clara and St. Mary's. 
It's a Catch 22 for Few. 
If his team continues to advance in the tournament, it can look l'orward to another year of' being avoided by the marquee programs. 
"The Zags are still looking for games next year," he said. "I doubt that's going to change." 
Purdue's Greg McQuay is turning his concern for his younger brother's illness into inspiration. 
Former Boilermaker Gary McQuay is in the hospital bat­tling acute leukemia. 
But that hasn't stopped the two from supporting each other on the court. 
Gary phoned Greg from the hospital and gave him some words of encouragement before lhe Boilermakers took on Oklahoma in the second round last week. 
Greg responded with his best game of the year-, 16 points and five rebounds, in Purdue's 66-62 victory. Greg. who has averaged 8.1 points per game as a senior center this year. credited his perfor­mance to his brother. 
"He's working hard to get better in the hospital to fight 

his illness. and I think I should work hard on the court," Greg McQuay said. 
Greg McQuay wears his brother's No. 5 on his shoes and his fingers. Gary faces at least two more weoks in the hospital. 
"I ,vanted to dedicate the (Oklahoma! game to him." Greg McQuay said. "I put that there to let him know he was thern in my memoriAs and he was there with me in spirit. lie even shed a tear when we won, He's going to keep me stronger and hopefully he will get stronger." .. 
Wisconsin coach Dick Bennett has a method for dealing with the high altitude in Albuquerque. Substitute quickly and often. 
"When we sec a guy looking really beat, we will sub. That's kind of how we did in Salt Lake City," Bennett said on the eve of Wisconsin's game against LSU. 
The Pit, home court of the University of' New Mexico, is more than a mile above sea level. But that doesn't discour­age Bennett, who depends on his team's depth to win games. 
"We have managed to sub­stitute and change lineups," Bennett said. "Everyone gets quality minutes. and everyone ... get~ a consistent number of shots. 
Thursday, March 23, 2000 

Olajuwon benched 
for three weeks 
Associated Press 

Doctors told Hakeem Olajuwon to stop playing for up to three weeks because of ongoing breathing prob­lems. 
"He is still having prob­lems so wo asked him to take some time off," Dr. James Muntz said Wednesday after examining the Houston Rockets star center. "We told him he would probably be out two to three weeks and that's getting to~ard the end of the irnason. 
The NBA regular season ends April 19. 
Olajuwon. 37. was diag­nosed March 1 with a dis-· ease that restricts the flow of air through his bronchial passages during heavy exer­cise, causing spasms in his lungs. He has been taking medicine for the condition. 
The breathing problem has limited Olajuwon's play­ing time -he has played as much as half a game only once since the diagnosis. He is averaging 24 minutes a game for the season, 13.4 below his career average. 
"If he was not playing bas­ketball, he would not even know he has this condition," Muntz, llouston's team doc­tor, said. "If he were work­ing at the bank or the news station. he would never know it. If he were jogging with me, he would nrwcr know it." 
Olaj uwon missed seven weeks earlier in the season to recover from hernia surgery. 
Olajuwon, the NRA's all­time leader in blocked shots and the Hor.kets' leader in virtually every offensive cat­egory. has said next season would be the last of his career. It also is the last of his contract. which is due to pay him $16.5 million for 2000-01. 
The Hockets are mired in an eight-game losing streak and is guaranteed to finish with a losing record for the first time since a 29-53 mark in 1983-84. Olajuwon joined the team the next season as the league's No. 1 draft pick out of the University of Houston. 
Houston, which Olajuwon led to NBA titles in 1994 and 1995, will miss the playoffs for the first time since 1992. 
Olajuwon's career aver­ages were 23.6 points and 
11.8 rebounds heading into the current campaign. 



Thursday, l\larch 23, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NFL 
Replay debate resurfaces in NFL 

votes. 
So did the committee's co­chair, Rich McKay of the Bucs, who harl expressed some reservations during the season. 
One change that needs no 
vote stems from that contro­versial call in the NFC title game. 
Under a new interpretation to be used next season, a ball that hits the ground can br 
. r,uled a good catch if the receiver has full possession. 
: Replay sliowed Tampa Bay's Bert Emmanuel indeed had possession, but under last season's rule, the simple touch to thA ground was enough to negate the catch on replay. 

C.J. 's Pub 
Friday Night Lenten Dinner SpecialsFriday Night Lenten Dinner Specials Friday Night Lenten DinnerSpecials 
success last year. 
Several teams always seemed to lose their chal­lenges, notably Tampa Bay, which also had a crucial catch overturned by replay in the final minute of its 11-6 loss Lo St. Louis in the 0iFC championship game. 
That makes it a question mark again this year. 
"It's always a close call," Joe Browne, the NFL's chief spokesman, said in a confer­ence call Wednesday. "Some clubs spoke up against it dur­ing the season. The calm of the orfseason may have calmed them down some." 
The only negative vote on the competition committee came from l\like Brown, pres­ident of the Cincinnati Bengals, one of three teams to vote against replay last season. 
Bob Ferguson, general manager of the Arizona C:url inals, voted for replay, even though Arizona owner Bill l::lidwill was another of last season's three "no" 

MLB 
Rodriguez highlights Mariners' roster 
Larry Bowa's eyes light up two guys are not better than A­when he's asked about his Rod." opinion of his new pupil, Alex When Bowa finally retired Rodriguez. after playing 14 games with 
"He comes along every 50 the New York Mets in 1985. he years in an organization," the held the major league record Sea:ttlo Mariners' new third for the highest lifetime lidding base coach said with a smile. percentage for a shortstop. "There's really nothing on the At 5-foot-10 and 170 pounds, field that he can't do. Really, Bowa was a .260 career hitter. there are no flaws in this guy's Playing great defense was his game." game. 
Bowa, 54, played 16 seasons Rodriguez is a shortstop in a in the major leagues and was different mold; a 6-3, 210­one of the game's premier pound right-handed power hit­shortstops in the 1970s, when ter who can run like a deer he was a five-time All-Star and play defense, too. with the Philadelphia Phillies. He's one of three players in 
At 24, Rodriguez already has major league history to hit 40 an AL batting homers and title and two steal 40 42-homer "There's really nothing bases in the seasons. The same season.
on the field that he can't 
Mariners B o w a
do. Really, there are nu
shortstop has shakes his played in flaws in this guys game.,, head in three All-amazement Star games. when he
Larry Bowa

B o w a a s s e s s e s 
Mariners' third base coach
· spent the Rodriguez's 
past three seasons watching Rodriguez as a mem­ber of the Anaheim Angels' coaching staff. Ile joined the Mariners' coaching staff under manager Lou Piniella this win­ter. 
He's trying to help Rodriguez become even better than last season, when he came back after missing 32 games because of surgery on his left 
. knee and matched his AL record for· the most homers by a shortstop with 42. But, Rowa concedes there's not a lot he can offer baseball's top draft pick in 1993. "He has it all," Bowa said. "If you were to build a franchise, that's the guy you_'d start with." In 13owa's eyes, Rodriguez is better than Boston shortstop Nomar Garciapara and New York Yankees' shortstop Derek Jeter, who were 1-2 in hitting in Lhe AL last seRson with .357 and . 349 averages. Rodriguez hit a career-low .285. "They're all superstars," Bowa said. "But A-Rod has the whole thing over all of them. When it comes to ever~th'ing. I can honestly tell you that those 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow-Air Fo ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision ·. Choose to become a leader 
Smart move. The whole' concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and 
Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
abilities. He 

is particular­ly impressed by Hodriguez's power to all parts of the ball­park. 
"He can go straight; l1e can go to right, he can go to left." Bowa said. "Most right-handed power hitters hit the ball to left fiAld a long way. This kid hits the ball to right-center and straightaway center like left­handers hit them." . 
Mariners fans have watched Hodrigue7 play regularly for four seasons after he appeared in 17 games with the team in 1994 and 48 games in 1995. Cnfortunately for them. he could be playing his final sea­son in Seattle in 2000. 
Rodriguez is in the final year of his contract and he and his agent, Scott Buras, have said they won't sign a contract extension with any team. The Mariners are risking losing Rodriguez as a free agent at the end of the season. 
But after being forced to trade Ken Griffey Jr. to Cincinnati in February. the Mariners didn't think their fans could take a double body blow by trading Rodriguez, too. 
. Teams to vote on continuation of replay system 
Associated Press 
Tim NFL's annual instant replay debate is ready to start again. 
After the l"irst season with replay since 1<)91, the league's compPtition cornmit­tf'c has voted 6-1 to recom­ITIPnd use of" the same system in 2000. 
It will he votrd on by all 31 teams at the league owners' meetings next week in Palm Beach, Fla., with 24 votes needed for approval. 
Replay votes have been a staple of these meetings for the past 15 years. 
It was votfld in for the 1986 season and voted out after 1991, primarily because of delays it caused. 
It was reinstated for last season after a series of con­troversial calls in 1998 with a coaches· challenge system. 
It wasn't always a critical 


www.ndfcu.org
North Dining Hall 
Independent of the University 

Flll91Hll1Alt TIAltVI• W/ Flllll 
Campus Locations: 
Full Service: 
Reckers Douglas Road Office 
Cash Dispenser Only: 
Hammes Bookstore Grace Hall 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 23, 2000 
BASEBALL 

Naumann leads ND to easy victory over Detroit 
Special to the Obserwr 
The Notre Dame baseball team continued its solid start· as it dominated the visiting Detroit, 10-3 on Wednrn:;day. 
Junior lerthander Mike Naumann pitr.hed five strong innings of middle relief and sophomore Paul O'Toole had two hits and three runs scored tD lead a balanced Notre Dame offense. The No.24 Irish won for the 10th time in the last. 11 games at Erk Baseball Stadium. 
The win featured most of the ingredients that have rharar.terized Notrn Dame's 13-3 season, with strong pitching and defense, offen­sive contributions up-and­down the lineup and a late­inning explosion from the Irish. 
Detroit opened the game with a two-out ratlv. as Juston Davenport hit a· first­pitch double to left-center before scoring on MikP Daguauno's 1-2 single to right. Trevor (~entry then parked an RBI double in the left-center gap. for an early 2-0 lead. 
Two errors helped the Irish tie the game in the third. Senior catcher Matt Nussbaum drew a full-count, leadoff walk before sopho­more second baseman Kris Billmaier singled to third baseman Mike Malley, with the runners moving up on the errant throw. 
Sophomore centerfielder Steve Stanley then hit a pil,ch to the first baseman Daguanno, who fired home to nail Nussbaum at the plate. 
Freshman rightfielder Brian Stavisky plated the first nm with a groundout to the second baseman before junior shortstop Alec Porzel's grounder went through the legs of his counterpart. allowing another run to score. 
O'Toole was hit by a one­out. 0-2 pitch in the fourth and scooted to third on sophomore third baseman Andrew 13ushey's first-pitch single through the right side before scoring on sophomore DH Matt Bok's bunt singl.e to the left side. 
The Irish stretched to a 4-2 cushion in the fifth, after Stanley's bunt single to the pitcher's left. Stavisky's sin­gle through the right side, and Porzel's Hl31 groundout to the second baseman. 
O'Toole lit the spark again in the sixth. with a first-pitch single off the glove of second baseman Ron Blackmore. After a stolen base and Bushey's 2-2 single to tho shortstop, Bok lifted a sacri-· fice fly to center for a 5-2 Irish lead. 
Detroit's linal run came in the seventh, with Billmaier's throwing error allowing the leadoff hitter Gentry to reach base. 
A groundball out moved the runner to second and 

pinch-hitter Mike Mitrcvski then delivered a run-scoring double to right. 
O'Toolc came through again in the leadoff spot, slic­ing a first-pitch hit into left­center that he convr.rtcd into a hustling <loublr. in the eighth. 
Bushey then drew a full­count walk and Bok's sar,ri­l'icc bunt was thrown down the rightl'ield line by Andrznjak. The rightfield('r Davenport thrr.w errantly as well. allowing Bushey to sr,ore for a 7-3 Irish load. 
Nussbaum followed with a first-pitch bunt single to the left side and Billmaier dropped the next pitch into right-centp,r to plate another run. Junior righthander David Wampler tonk the mound and threw a wild pitch before Stanley plated the final two runs with a 3-1 singlo past the head of sec­ond baseman Rlackmore 
The Irish broke open the game with five runs in lhe eighth, representing Notre Dame's most runs in an inning this season. 
Evp,ry Irish starter regis­tc red a hit. Five different Notre Dame players com­bined for the team's seven RBI while seven Irish players crossed the plate. 
Notre Dame's big finish gives the Irish a 19-4 scoring edge in the eighth inning this season and a 36-9 margin in the seventh and eighth innings combined. 


t I 


Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 
Q{]@@~LJ[b@[ru@)0§ COLLeGe DIGHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 


$1 Co•liER (with college I.D., must be 21)W ~ and lots ofother stuff for a buck, too. 
222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 More pictures online 011ery week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 

Make no mistake, Chicago Steakhouse serves amazing steaks, FRIDAY~ MARCH 24 pasta, salads and more that seem like they should be pricey (but aren't) and features a fun, casual atmosphere you don't
BIG BANG 

have to get dressed up for ( unless you want to). Great for groups, too. 
SATURDAY, MARCH 25 

222 S. Michigan • South Bend • 219.2345200
HOT DJ'S FROM CHICAGO 

www.aceplaces.com/heardand 
}~ 

Thursday, March 23, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
Indiana investigates Knight 
Drug tests planned 
Associated Press 
Thi, ripples from Bob Knight's latest controversy widened Wednesday beyond his Indiana University locker room. 
A university sports advisory r.ommitter planned lo review areusations that the llall of FanH' coach choked former player Neil Heed during a 1997 practice. 
"Then~ am people who are positive. negative, blaml.3 the press for bad timing. They're all over the map." said Bruce Jaffee. a business professor and r,hairman of the Indiana University Bloomington Athletks Committee. 
"It's comr from all over the placf'. f'verything from !"-mails to people on the street. Obviously. this is a big topic of discussion." lw said. 
The acr.us•• tions were expertPd to be heard by the 13-mrmb(1r punnl composed of l'arulty. studt:nLs and alumni at the regular monthly meet­ing Wednesday night at Assembly Hall. Knight was not sd1eduled to attend. 
Jaffe said the panel might make recommendations to the school's president and athletic director. The group has no power to discipline Knight. 
Indiana athletic director C!arenr.P Ooninger was to brief the committee, but school officials said there were no plans to play a videotape or review the transcript of a CNN/Sports Illustrated report in which Reed said Knight choked him. 
In that report. Heed and two other players also said Knight . pants around his ankles, used a r,rude bathroom gesture while upbraiding his team. They also said Knight once ordr,red school president \.lyles Brand to leave a team practice. 
Knight said that while he sometimes uses colorful mPans to motivate players, he 

denied the bathroom episode ever occurred. Knight also 
for Olympics 
said he did not kirk Brand out 
i\.tl)c.::•11f,;dl\ I le,illl .-:.a 
"~"'-,rf«.;i,;111(7(·~ 

in time for the Sept. 15-0ct. 1
ft ¦...,.. .
f rahu~,., th• u• t, i•• .-.~ .-.,-ut ~•• ,.... ,. 

games.
IS A DREAT Tl/I/IE TO INCREASE YOUR PHYSICAL ACTIVITY. 
EPO allows users to cram 
--~--extra oxygen into the blood­stream. Pound said it's possi­ble an EPO test will be devel­oped in time, but IOC medical commission member Arne Lj ungqvist disagreed. "It will take a vear at least if the test is to meet all the crite­ria to meet all the legal demands," he said. "I've heard plenty of rumors but seen no facts that anyone has come up with a valid test." 
of practice. 

After Heed left the team in 
1997, hf' said he was physical­
ly and mentally abused by 
Knight, although he offered no 
specifics publicly. 

Following Heed's departure 
from the team, the athletics 
committee heard from 
Doninger, according to panel 
member David Towell. an 
associate professor of geology. According to Towell. Doninger said Reed spoke to him but revealed little. Doninger told the wmmittee . only that need said he was 
unhappy and was leaving. 

"Clarence had encouraged 
him to finish the semester." 
Towell said. 

The alleged bathroom dis­
play and the charge that 
Knight once grabbed Heed by 
the throat are "totally news to 
me," Towell told The 
Indianapolis Star. 
-

WADA, which met at International Olympic Committee headquarters Wednesday, said it is pressing governments to allow immedi­ate access to athletes for out­of-competition testing. 
In manv countries. testers arc deni.ed entry visas for weeks, giving athletes time to purge their systems. 
"If governments don't com­ply we'll raise a wall of shame," Pound said. "It's not in a government's interest to have it known they are hinder­ing out-of-competition testing." 
The IOC will continue to have authority over drug test­ing, analysis and sanctions in Sydney, but WADA will moni­tor the process and be informed of any positive tests. 
At previous games, the head of the IOC panel was the only official lo receive test results from the lab. 
In Sydney, four other people will be notified. That group will report any positive find­ings to the full IOC medical commission, which will makr, recommendations to the roe executive board. The board will continue to have the sole authority to disqualify athletes for drug use. 
A full report on testing results will be made within a month after thr, games. 
WADA is temporarily based in Lausanne, but is seeking a new home and a new chief executive officer. It expects to choose both within a year. 
. ~ !II American Heart A 
l\ ~ itn·: Association.V
I'.""a~ l ;. fighting Heart Disease &nd Stroke 
eaftftful Foods 
O_ne Day Table Tennis Tournament March 25, 2000 

Sign up at the RecSports office Deadline for registration is March 24 at 12pm 
,Z?-.~ 
For more information, please call the RecSports office at 1-6100 
Associated Press 
Half the 10,000 athletes at 
the Sydney Olympics are 
expected to be screened for 
drug use before the games. 
The World Anti-Doping 
Agency [WADA] will start out­
of-competition testing in April. 
the group's interim leader said 
Wednesdav. 
"We plan to have as many as 
2,500 tests under our pro­
gram," IOC vice prnsident Dick 
Pound said. "With national 
and international federations 
performing unannounced test­
ing as well, that would be in 
excess of 5,000 out-of-compe­
tition tests performed. That 
would mean, on average. one 
in two athletes participating in 
Sydney will have been tested 
in unexpected circumstances." 
Another top official doubted 
a test for the banned perfor­
mance-enhancer erythropoi­
etine. or EPO, would be ready 

page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 23, 2000 
~-========-::====-=====~-::====-== 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Laxers run to competitive start in 2000 season 
. Irish finish spring break with a 3-1 record 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sporrs \X'ritel 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team went 2-1 over spring break, defeating Ohio L'niversitv and Rir.bmond at home and losing to 16th­ranked Svracuse on the road. 
This b;ings lhe Irish to 3-l overall on the sPason 
"I think the tt>am is doing real!v wPll." Tara Durkin. the Irish· squad's starting goalie, said. "It's going to be a ){feat year." 
Against SyrncusP., the attack corps struggled. as the Ornngewom0n held Notre Dame to just 27 shots on goal for the game. The Irish trailed 5-3 at tho half. with goals coming J'rom Lael O'Shaughnessy and Kathryn Perrella. both junior co-cap­tains. along with freshman Danielle Slrnarer. The Irish \\ere scoreless in the second half. 
The three goals against Svracuse are the fewest N·otre Dame has scnred in a single game this season. The Orangewornen widened their lead to end the game at 9-3. Durkin had 18 saves for the Irish in that matrh. 
"We wpre the bt>tter team." Durkin said. "That should have been our game." 
The game against Syracuse marked the last time the two will meet as independents. Next season women's lacrosse will be sponsored by the Big East Conference. and Notre Dame will join Boston College, Conn er ticu t, Georgetown. Rutgers. Virginia Terh, and Syracuse in round-robin play. 
Even without any seniors this year's squad set several school records in its 22-3 vic­torv over Ohio Universitv. The game. held March 11 ~t the Lolh1s Sports Center. opened the home season for the Irish. Eleven different Irish players scored against the Bobcats, the most players ever to score in an Irish 
Back from break? Need asummer iob? 
look no tunher. 
The nation's largest publisher of college and university campus telephone directories is offering paid full-time summer sales and marketing internships. Tremendous practical business experience and re,ume boo,ter. Positions begin in May with a week-long, expense paid program in C~apel Hill, NC Interns market official directories locally, selling advertising space to area businesses in specific college markets, including The University of Notre Dame. Earnings average $3000 for the 10-week program. All maiors welcome! 

Call 1-800-143-5556 ext 143 or Visit our website at www.universitvdirectories.com tor more information and to aooiv. 
~University Directories 

88 VilCom Center• Chapel Hill, NC 27514 • (800) 743-5556 • fox: 1919) 968-8513 
women's lacrosse game. The total of 14 assists and 36 points in the gamfl against Ohio University mark single­game highs for the four-year­old Irish program. Notre Dame al.so had two scoring streaks. l O straight goals in the firsl half, and 8 in the • second half 
"The depth fon the t.cuml is a lot bettP-r." ()'Shaughnessy said. ''Tho juniors ha\'e steppP.d up, and it's a whole group thing." 
O'Shaughncssy and sopho­more Maureen Whitaker led thC'ir toam with 4 goals earh against Ohio University. 
Perrella. Shean~r. Natalie Loftus. Tina Fedarcvk. and Katharine Scarola: junior Maura Doyle. and f'reshmen Anne llilev and Eleanor Weille all r.ontributed goals for the Irish. 
"It vvas really nice to open thf' season with a ronfidcnt win like that," ()'Shaughnessy said. "Everyonf' gets in and gets tu play." 
Durkin allowed just 2 goals in 38 rninutPs of' play. With the help of fellow goalies. junior Carrie Marshal! and freshman Jen White, who allowed just one goal between them in 22 minutes. Notre Dame held Ohio Universitv to 12 shots on goal for the entire game. 

"The defense has definitely first half, lhe Irish took ovor, stepped up their aggressive­sr.oring seven goals in a row. ness," ()'Shaughnessy said. The Irish left th(' half wilh a "They play more as a unit 9-4 lead. In the second half now. They are very good at tho Spiders came buck 
causing turnovers." strong, answering Notrn 
A day tater, the Notre Dame·s two initial srores to f}ame women's lacrosse bring the game to 11-6. The tP.arn managed a 14-13 vkto­Spiders then W{'nt 011 a scor­ry against the Richmond ing drive. sr,oring three goals Spiders. Although the Spiders in the final three minutes of had took tho lead P.ariy in the the game. outscoring Notre 
LIZ LANG/The Observer Junior Lael O'Shaughnessy led the Irish over spring break with goats in each of Notre Dame's three games. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used books bought and sold -25 Categories oi Books -25,000 Hardback and PapNback books in stock 
-Out-of-Print search ~ervicec $2.00 -Appraisals large and small 
OPEN NOON TO SIX TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 1027 E. WAYNE SOUTH BEND, IN 46618 (219) 232-8444 


Dame 9-5 in the second half. With 17 seconds left in the game and the scorn standing at 14-13. Irish defender redarcyk won the final draw to run out the clock and save the virtorv for the Irish. 
"The freshmen arc fantas­tic.," ()'Shaughnessy said. "They are t'illing in their spot-; well." 
The t!)am's next game is al 
Business, Finance, &Accounting Information &Process Control Technology 
. Notre Dame travels to Columbus to take on Ohio State 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse tram travels to Ohio State Marrh 23 to face lhe Buckeyes at Jesse Owens Memorial Stadium. 
Ohio State has a record of 3-2 nntering Thursday's game. 
The last meeting betwp,cn tllf' two teams was on March 2(1, 199'). a homn ganrn for the Irish. Ohio State won that gamr 15-12. outshooting tlrn Irish 33-26. Irish goalie Carrie Marshall made 12 saves for Notrn Damn. Ohio State goalie Megan Barnett had 14 saves in that game. finishing thP. season with a .544 save fJ!\rr,entagP-. 
Tho Irish have a 1-2 record against the Buckeyes in the last threP-years, losing in 1997 and winning in 1998. 
"We definitely want to como bac:k and beat them," Irish junior r.o-captain Lael O'Shaughnessy said. "We just huvP-to go and play our game and not worry about what they do." 
()'Shaughnessy continues to lead her team in the attack with 11 goals in four games so far this season. She is the third­highP-st returning scornr among NCAA Division I schools from the 1999 season with 50 goals last spring. O'Shaughnessy has scored at least one goal in all but one or her career games at Notrn Dame. 
Tara Durkin, starting goalie for the Irish this season, has a .59 save pflrcent­age and a GAA of 8.82. In lhe loss to Svracuse last wePk. Durkin and her d~fense hold the nationally ranked Orangcwomen to 9 goals. 
"We held SyracusP. to very low num­bers." Durkin said. "The defense did not let up at all." · 
Ohio StatP is also coming to Thursday's game off a loss. The Burkeyes sulfored a 10-8 dPfoat at the hands of Boston University on March 19. 
Chemistry 
Engineering Materials Science Human Resources 

Environmental Science 


Thursday, l\larch 23, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
Please join your faculty at a Faculty-Student luncheon to be held today, Thursday March 23 
119 O'Shaughnessy Hall 12-1:30 P.M. 
GIFT RAFFLE WILL BE HELD Sponsored by Sti1dent Government , 
Midnight 
continued from page 36 
r.nter thH facility. 
,\long wi1h an all-night DJ, there will also be free food and drink all night and draw­ings for prizes, including a one night's stay at the Saint Mary's Inn. Wendy's gift cer­tificates. a free .semester of aernbics. Saint Mary's appar­el. and much more. 
Although there will be some athlf'tic 1w<'nts, th<i focus of the night is not just athletics. 

HOMES FOR RENT 
2000 -2001 SCHOOL YEAR 
-Domus Properties has three, four, five, and eight bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year 

BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
ATTENilQ 
"This is not about athlet­drawing will be held. 

ics,"Kachmarik  0  n  e  
said.  "This  is  "Come in here and show  n  a  m  e  
about recreation that anyone can participate in  your Saint Mary's pride. By coming and  from each class box will be  
and about rais­ing school pride and school spir­it."  supporting this event, you are supporting the whole Saint Mary's  drawn to compete for the weekend  
At  2  a.m.  the  community.,,  Chicago  
winners  of the  trip.  
intramurals will bf' presentPd  Lynn Kachmarik  The trip includes  
with  trophies  athletic director  a  t  w  o  
and  T-shirts.  n  i  g h  t  
Following  this  accommo­ 

presentation. the grand prize dation at the Ritz in downtown 
Chicago. a Saturday night din­ner at the John Hancock Signature Hoom. and a $1,000 shopping sprer. One final win­ner will be drawn from the four names. 
The entire Saint Mary's community is encouraged to join in. Faculty and adminis­tration have been invited to participate as judges and com­petitors. 
The event promises to be full of activity and all are invited to join. 
"Come in here and show your Saint Mary's pridr," Kachmarik said. "By coming and supporting this event you are supporting the whole Saint Mary's community." 
Women who are planning to comA to Midnight Madness must be in Angela Athleticwe Facility by midnight on March 31. 
G}iet all 
t e tax 
relief 
the I a -w-· allows 

The IRS wants you to know all the savings to look for. The Child Tax Credit for children under 17. The HOPE Credit and Lifetime Learning Credit for higher education. Tbe Roth IRA. And more. Check your 1999 tax booklet or consult our Web site: www.irs.gov 
Hoops 
continued from page 36 
you're not going to win." 
Notre Dame won despite 18 turnovers and a less­than-perfect defensive out­ing, according to Doherty. 
"It wasn't the prettiest game for a lot of reasons," Doherty said. "J want every­body operating at 100 per­cent capacity, and I felt we were a little bit flat at times. The energy wasn't there on the bench. When you win and you don't play your best, I think you 're a pretty good team." 
Game Notes: 
. 
No player for BYU scored more than 10 points. but Wesley, Vranes and John Allen all tallied exactly 10. 

. 
Murphy led the Irish with 19 points, as eight Irish players scored in the outing. 

. 
Dillon rlimbcd to 206 assists on the season and now sits just eight behind Jackie Meehan's 1970-71 record, with two games remaining. 

. 
This year's Notre Dame squad has played the sec­ond-highest number of games in school history. The 1908-09 Irish played 40 games, while this year's team will play in 3 7. 

. 
Notre Dame's next game will be in the semi-finals of the NIT. The team will take on an 18-15 Penn State team Tuesday at Madison Square Garden. 



page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 23, 2000 
IRISH INSIGHT 
Notre Dame will prove worth to NCAA committee 


can 
e 
and I 
con 1c 

Tell Greg at USA Coaches in New York to warm up the bus. With a 64-52 victory over BYlJ Wednesday night. Notre Dame is headed back to the Garden for the third time this season. 
"We've been there a lot, but we want to win more there," head coach and New York native Matt Doherty said. "We've had some prPtty good competition. We'll probably have Greg the bus driver again. He's picked us up the last two or three times." The Irish (21-14) will also look to pick up their game while in thr, Big Apple. Notre Dame dropped games to Arizona and Maryland in their first trip to New York dur­ing the Final Four of the presea­son I\JIT back in November. They rebounded with a win against Rutgers two weeks ago in their return trip during the Big East Championship. but tell in the sec­ond round to Miami. 
Despite Notre Dame's 1-3 record at Madison Square Garden. sophomore forward David Graves called it the frish's "home court away from home." "We know the deal there," Doherty said. "We know where to practice and we should have some big ticket requesl'i." Graves, however. doesn't care if tho Irish play in New York or South 

Bend. as long as they get to keep playing more basketball. After this weekend, the Irish will be just one ofeight rollrge teams that are still playing. 
"I don't care where we play," Graves said. "The important thing is that we are still playing basket­ball. We get to go back to the Garden and play a tough Penn State team. We're not just happy making the semifinals. We want to prove that we are legit and deserved a spot in the NCAA Tournament." That has served as a motivating force for l\otre Dame in its ,-vins over Michigan. Xavier and now BYlJ. Th11 NCAA selection committee isn't No. 1 on Notre Dame's list these days and so the Irish are on a mission to show thr,m who they arc missing in their Big Daner.. 
"I'm ready to go," sophomorn center Harold Swanagan said. "I wish we could play tomorrow. I just look forward to playing more games. We're going to go back to New York and prove the commit­tee wrong." But the NIT may be a blessing in disguise for this y,oung Irish squad. For Doherty, the win over BYlJ also allows him to put off filling out expense reporl'l, returning phone calls and dealing with the huge pile of mail that awail"> him when the season final­ly ends. But on a serious note, the Irish are guaranteed to play 37 games this season ­possibly the most by any team this year. Also. they gained some posl'i(mson experience and an opportunity to play deep into March. 

"We got the oppor­tunity to play three morn games on national tnlevision when NCAA Tournamont games aren't going on." Doherty said. "So you've got Friends, ER and Not.re Dame basketball. I like to look at the glass as half full. ll'wc made the NCA.t\ it would have been a great thing. But we didn't so we noed to make this as positivo as possible. It's thto only thing we can do. We want to win though. No one likes playing in the consolation game." But on second thought. he may have prefcrrnd one game in the NCAA rather than take home an NIT title. 
"It's a tough choice -to lose in the first round of the NCAA or win the NIT," he said. "No offonso to the NIT. but I probably would have taken the NCAA. That's the big pot of gold at the end of the rainbow." It's a pot of gold the Irish won't enjoy this season, but the season has exceeded presea-
Sponsorer.; by 

THE STANDING COMMJTTE£ ON GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 

in Catholic sexual ethics MOVING TOWARD AN INCLUSIVE APPROACH Thursday, March 23, 2000 
7:30 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Public reception to follow in the Great Hall of the Hesburgh Center 
Sidney Callahan is a columnist for Commonweal magazirie and author on topics ranging from families and sexuality to religion and polistics. She is a professor of psychol­ogy at Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry, New York. A graduate of Bryn Mawr College, 


Callahan received her M.A. in psychology from Sarah Lawrence College in 1971 and her Ph.D. from the City University of New York in 1980. She was awarded the Laetare Medal in 1994. 
son expectations. In his first year as a head coach, Ooherty took a losing club and turned them into a 20-game winner. The students and fans have rallied around him and the team and a NIT title may be just one week away. 
"I don't think it's essential for the program," Doherty said. "I would like to win it a5 much as any coach would, but I think we did enough good things this year. 
I don't think it's win or bust. We've accomplished a great dNll this season. But that won't soflon our approach. And wouldn't it be nice to hang an NIT bannnr in the Joyce Center." Two wins in New York and Doherty will have it. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
-

page 31 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 23, 2000 
SMC softball keeps goals in mind with 5-4 opening 
By KAREN SCHAFP Sporrs Wriret 
Saint Mary's softball team began their season last week with a tournamont in Florida. !lead coach Joseph Speybroeck and assistant coad1 Oavid Martin say they "have very spe­cifir goals for their 2000 soft­ball Learn." Thny intend on becoming an academic all-cnn­ferencc team, place within the lop four in the MIAA. and have a 25-win season. 

The team is young compared to past years, but the team has a lot of strong qualities. 
"Two :;trong pitchers. great speed in the outfield. and six strong hitters are some of the positive assets that the team possr,sscs this year," said coach Speybroeck. 


Both Speybroeck and Martin believe that with the great chemistry among the players, a successful season is within reach. The coaches are positive that their players' experience. talent. hard work, and enthusi­asm will pull them through. 
Spring br!'ak has proven to be a positive start. The Belles went 3-1 in pre-season competition. 
Saint Mary's continued their season with a 5-4 record in their Florida tournament. 
Coach Speybroeck credits the team's win to their "experience, talent, and depth of the mem­bers of the team." 
Co-captains Trish Klockner and Megan O'Keefe will lead the team this season. 
The Belles are hoping that the energy and cohesiveness the team displays will lead them to a successful season. 
"We have really good leader­ship that pulls the team togeth­er," said sophomore Kristin Martin. "This year's team has got chemistry." 
Sophomore Amy Clark added that she is "looking forward to [the rest of the season]. We played really well against some tough teams." 
Saturday, 3/25, 8 pm 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium $2 for students, $3 GA (pay at the door) 

-www.nd.edu/-su.;:. 

You do:n.'t pay tax: 
Reith 
I R A 

Thi• i¦ the b,;g an-ract:fon. or 
• floth lR..A--yo..-don't p~y t.a~ wben.. yotl. ~•ke a qu;;;altf'led withdrawal, not c'\l'e'l!n on ch.a ~rnin1r and gain• th•t: build up. 
You mu•t follow ee.r'taln rulea, 

•uch ii.II holding t:.hc: Roch IRA for S year.sand rca..;:hing; age S9''.1• 
Whac•• r(lorc:::" you c:an <1;0nv1::rt many t:rad.ltional IRA,. accoun.t• to a Floth IRA. And you cart eontt-ibute ~o .i Roth IRA. .-fter the age of 70 ''.2­
You need to meet the ga.idc­line•. compare, and examine which choice i111 best f'or you. 
Other IRA option• al •o offer tax advan"Ca.ges. For c:xamplc. you can withdraw up to 
S 10,000 from moat IRA accounts without paying carl:y­"A"id\dr•wal uuc., if' you use the funds to b~y a first home or pay for higher cduc;atlon, 
For •ll the f;ac;:u on Roth ;and other IRA. beneflu, 111cc ~-our 1 999 tAX booklet. Or check our 
VVeb ,;,ite~ ------l~.9ov  
I 1,.  In,,, ,1,  fP..  ,  ,  '­ • 1  
-=~I  ,£.,,...!__ ·~~  ,).!ti!, ..,_,  fl  •  :,, .. ,  

I 
·1
l 

Asia~ Ame~ican Association P~ese~ts... 
DaV\ce of the Dra90V\ 
An Jnclitsive Dance Pa.,..~ Sa+vtrday1 March 25th 9:00 PM -2:00 AM AlumJ!li -Senio~ Clt1b 
$3 Pev-PeJl4-SoV\ 
$5 Pe.,._ Couple FRE-6 FOOD & R6FR6St-lM6NT 


page 32 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 23, 2000 
Final stand for adaptable Krol 
• Senior looks for individual, team title to close collegiate career 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Wrirer 

Krol 
Magda Krol was lost. 
position: fnilist

On Notre Dame's campus !'or tht' first tinw in August of' year: senior 1996. the freshman from awards: 1997 epee national Vancouver. B.C. searched the champion. three lime /Ill­c·ampus for DeBartolo llall 
American. 1996. 1997

and her French placement 
Canadian junior epee cham­

exam. 
But as she and her fatlrnr pion. r997, r998 Midwest wandered thi> campus looking Conference epee champion, for the test. Krol found the 2000 Midwest regional.foilplace she wan tnd to spend 
champion. 199() l'\iestem

the next !'our vears. 
Canadian senior champion

"GPtting lns't at a place like Notrf' Danw is not a prob­in hoth foil and epee. mem· lPm." she said. "l love tlw her qf.,;enior Canadian foil entire campus. Friendly peo­
team in 1997, 1998 

ple all over the place lost just 
notables: 1997 epee winning

likr I was." 
perce11tage of.968 is best

In manv wavs Krol was the typiral {resl{nrnn. She had single season margin Irish troublf' finding her dorm and u•omen 'sfencinq history. lwr dasses and adjusting to 
her 230 career u·in s ranks 

lil'P at a university. 
her se1•enlh in Irish
"Slw had evf'l'v freshman 
women's fencing history,

quality," said Nic.ole Paulina. a 1999 graduate and Krol's her .885 career u·inning roommate last vear. "She was percentage is sel'enlh best rwrvous and l;nsure of' hPr­
all-time 

self." Whilr Krol mav have berm the typiral fresh.man on the 
srorPs '>\'!'rt' in the individual 

quads. in tlw fenr'.ing gym. she 
bouts. All that I carnd about 

was anything but typical. She was to win for Notrn Dame. It 
quickly demonstrated to lH•r 
felt incn'dible when the whole 

teammates that she was some­
thing was over. l wits in a 

thing special. 
tran<'.P. I couldn't tell what 
"She-adjusted quickly and 
was going on. I couldn't 

obviously her impact on the understand it at all. It was one 
fencing team was felt immedi­of the best frncing that l had 
a tel v," Paulina said. "She 
ever done." 

vvas~ 't really a freshman. Due Even after seeing Krol excel 
to her international experi­in practice and at the Penn ence, she was much more 
State open, the team was still 

experienced than some of the little surprised see
a to a 

seniors we had. 
freshman handle the pressureShe brought a different fem:­of the Championships so well ing style and it was nice to see and rome away with the title. 

that in the gym. I think it "It was just amazing,"
helped everyone improve." 
Paulina said. "Especially since form of energy and use that to When she arrived on campus what she was done, she went Krol made an impact on the she was just a freshman and beat my opponent." as a freshman she switched from foil to epee and then collegiate fencing world out­she had all that pressure. She As the only '.'Jotre Dame weapons from foil to epee. As epee to foil. When she leaves side the Joyce Center as well. 
doesn't falter under pressure senior to qualify for the an epeeist she won a national there is going to be a big hole I n 
at all. She Championships, the pressure title and was named an All­in the women's team." 
h e r 
tends to handle is even greater this year. American three times. Then While Magda's graduationf i r s t "Whatever I did with her in pressure very Three years of second place last summer, with the loss of may leave a hole in the 
colle­
the four years she has been well." overall team finishes has dri­so many talented seniors and women's team. he presence
giate 
Three years ven Krol to strive even harder the influx of new talented this year has been a pillar for
here. she always came

meet. 
later. Krol. this year to win the title. freshman, head fencing coach other fencers to lean on. 
t h e through. That is very unusual. 
now a senior All that pressure has Yves Auriol asked Magda to "Magda is awesome," fresh­
presti­
When she leaves there is captain of the brought out the best in Krol. switch bark to foil for her man foilist Liza Boutsikaris 
g i ()us 
Penn going to be a big hole in the foil squad and She says that the feeling of senior vear. While at first a lit­said. "I really. really learned a a three time excitement and invincibility tle hesitant, lot from fencing with her. I 
State women's team. " 
All-American. that filled her three years ago Krol excelled as foil captain learned to always fence my 
open, 
will face that is back for the first time this in her senior and recently won hardest. I always look to 
Kr o I 
pressure for vear. the Midwest Regional foil title. Magda and look up to her. It
Yves Auriol w o n the last time as · "Leaving the gym (Tuesday] "l decide with the help of my won't be any different at the
head fencing coach

f i r s t 
a collegiate I felt that exact same feeling parents and my coaches that Championships."
place. 
fencer todav at that I hadn't felt last vear or [switching to foil] would be a Krol leads by both words S h e the NCAA the year before," Krol ·said. "I good thing," Krol said. "It and example. Her love for 
f o I ­
Championships in Palo Alto, feel really good heading into would help me and help the fencing and Notre Dame refus­lowed that up a few months 
Calif. But Krol isn't concerned this Championship. Something team. It was just a good move es to allow anything less than 
later with a national title in 
with the pressure that she is telling me that this is going with the recruits that we had her very best effort in every 
epee at the NCAA 
alwavs seems to handle wf'll. to be it. I havf' to finish with a and the seniors that we lost." match. 
Championships in Colorado. 
"I think pressure pushes me bang and the whole team has Krol adaptability is very "I know in my heart that I 
"It was a dream," Krol said 

to perform even better." she to finish with a bang. I am just rare, according to Auriol. can only give my very best,"
about her NCAA tournament 
said. "T take it as something going to go out and do it." "What ever I did with her in Krol said. "I will give 100 per­run in I 997. "It was unreal. i 
that instead of drawing me Opponents had best be the four years she has been cent. I will give more than didn't even back and pulling me away aware · whenever Krol sets here. she always rame that. I promise that I won't 
know what 

from my best. I block tho pres­her mind to accomplish some­through," he said. "Thal is give any less than my ultimate t h e sure and turn it into a positive thing, it usually happens. very unusual. To be able to best bemuse I am a fighter." 

<'.~Mk 

~ l;, birthdate: .!\uq. 24, 1978 a word to describe her off the 
hometown: Vancolwer. !J.C. strip: good old Canadian major: psychology/computer greatest accomplishment on the applications strip: scoring winning touch 
up close & 
personal 

height: 5-fool-7 while falling against Nortweslem a word to describe her on the at 2000 Midwest Championships strip: horse greatest accomplishment off the
WITH MAGDA KROL 

favorite class: sports ps,t;chology strip: making !Jean ·s List 

Thursday, March 23, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
Irish defy odds "Wi.th strong return to Chainpionships 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sporrs Wrirer 
The Irish travel to Palo Alto. Calif. today to compete in the 2000 NCAA Fencing Championships with a mixture of exdtement and apprehension. 
"It's a little bit overwhelming," freshman foilist Liza Boutsikaris said. "I am kind of nervous but I am really excited. I don't really know what to expect." 
With eight fencers making their NCAA debuts, the Irish hope that the infusion of new blood will propel them to a championship after four straight second place finishes. 
"It's an entirely new outlook and new energy," said Nicole Paulina, a 1999 alumna and four-year fencer who now serves as armorer for this year's team. "We have so much talent and so much enthusiasm right now, I think we can do really well." 
Standing betwren the Irish and their first championship since 1994 are host Stanford, defend­ing champion Penn State and 1999 fourth place finisher Princeton. These are the only three schools besides Notre Dame to qualify the maximum 12 fencers for the Championships. 
While Stanford and Princeton may be strong teams. the real challenge on the weekend will be Penn State. For four straight years the Nittany Lions have bested the Irish at the Championships. This year, the Irish think they have a cha.nee to knock off the defending champs. 
"I hope I can take them," freshman Meagan Call said. "I know Anna [Carnick] can take them. I am pretty sure women's sabre can take them and I am confident in women's foil. The men will have no problem.'' 

The men arc led by 1999 NCAA sabre runner-up Gabor Szelle. 
"I am verv confident about [the Championships] and I think this year I can win because I don't think there is any more competi­tion left in the championship," he said. "I think I am definitely the favorite." 
Also competing for the Irish in sabre is junior All-American Andrzej Bednarski. He finished 11th as a freshman at the 1998 Championships before taking 1999 off. 
The only other Irish male fencer with NCAA experience who qualified for this year's Championships is sophomore All-American Brian Casas. Casas finished eighth at the 1999 NCAA Championships and led the 2000 epee squad with a 35-11 record. 
The other three Notre Dame male fencers to qualify for the NCAA Championships are com­peting for the first time. 
Jan Viviani, a freshman from Haworth, N.J .. has at times looked like the best epeeist on the team but has been extremely inconsistent. He posted a perfect 3-0 record against Penn State during the regular season but lost two bouts to club fencers from Purdue the next weekend. 
At foil the Irish feature a pair of talented freshmen. Forest Walton has been solid all year but Ozren Debic is the star of the squad. Debic led the foil team with a 42-3 record and won both the Midwest Fencing Conference foil championship and the Midwest Regional foil champi­onship in the post season. Despite his strong season, Debic is modest about his prospects for a victory in foil. 
"I don't think of myself as the favorite because the whole tour­nament is five-touch bouts," Debic said. "You can't rest at all and think that you are going to win because one bad call or one missed touch and the guy can beat you." 
Freshman epeeist Carnick also dislikes the five-touch bouts that decide the round robin bouts in at the Championships. 
"I am personally a big fan of 15-touch bouts rather than five­touch because in five-touch bouts pretty much anything can happen," she said. "But that is just something you have to deal with." 
Carnick's opponents will have to deal with the freshman's quick attacks and sharp reflexes. Carnick's prowess on the strip earned her a 41-10 record and the Midwest Conference epee title. 
Also representing the Irish in epee is Call, who finished the 2000 season with a 37-10 record. 
The Irish feature two strong competitors in women's sabre. Freshman Natalia Mazur and junior Carianne McCullough are both making their first appear­ances at the Championships. 
At foil the Irish boast two strong fencers in senior Magda Krol and freshman Liza Boutsikaris. Krol is the only senior representing the IrL'ih and will be called upon to be a leader on and off the strip. 
"I think that it will mean that I have to be a leader because I am thl'l oldest and I have to be a leader," Krol said. 
Boutsikaris led the foilists in wins in 2000 with a 36-8 record and finished third at the Midwest Conference Championships. 
Magnificent seven make Championship debut 
made up for the loss of the grad­By MIKE CONNOLLY 
uating seniors." 

Spnrrs Writer The youth and collegiate inex­
perience of the freshman fencers 

When the Class of 1999 traded forced sophomores like All­their fencing weapons for diplo­American epeeist Brian Casas mas last spring, many thought into unexpected leadership roles. that the Notrn Dame fencing "There are so many freshman program would face a down going; it kind of makes me feel yrar. old," he said. "I kind of told them 
Critics said four All-Americans that they should take it seriously would bt' nearly impossible to but not to worry about it too rPplarr in a single rpcruiting much. Thev are all verv talented class. Irish hrad coarh Yves fencers. They just can't let the Auriol would stress get to havn to settk for them." lesser finishes for ''There are so many While the 
a fow years while freshman going; it kind of freshmen 
thn talent camn are making
makes me feel old. " 

bark to the levrl their first that raptured appearance !'our straight sec­Brian Casas in the pre­ond plan~ fi.nish­mier colle­
sophomore epeeist 

es I'm rn I'J'J G tu giate event, 1999. thev are all 
But proving all exp.erienced the critks wrong. in big time J\uriol rrrruited onr of his bl'st fencing. Fenring in national and freshman classes and put the international events as high Irish in position for yet another schoolers taught the freshmen nm at the NC.AA Championship. how to prepare ror big events. With seven freshmen -Liza "Our team is pretty deep in the Boutsikaris. Meagan Call. Anna sense that most of the people Carnick. Ozren Dl'bic, Natalia going have a lot of experience -Mazur. Jan Viviani and Forest maybe not collegiately but Walton -qualifying for the nationally and internationally ­Championships this weekend at we have some strong experience Stanford, Auriol has one of the in thr group, " epeeist Carnick youngest squads in Palo /\Ito. said. 
the young guys hav<' a lot of national team, hut. no collPgiate "I think in most of the cases weAs one of' four Learns to quality Debic, who has been the fencing experience. It won't mat­experience. won't have any problem becausethe milximum 12 fencers fnr the brigl1lesl jewel this year in ter that they are frr,shmcn." Szelle, however, proved that they are very experiencedChampionships, he also has one Auriol's treasure chest of a class, Sophomore Gabor Szelle was previous NCAA expPriencc is not fencl'rs," he said. "But in thoseof Lhr brsL expecL,;; a challenge but believes in the same position last year as required for success as he cap­cases where they might be prob­"J think coad1 did an nxccllcnt his classmates will perform well. 
this vear·s freshmen. He came to tured silver at the lems, they definitely have to con­joh recruiting this year," foilist "It won't be easy for sure but it Not~e Dame with a wealth of Championships. He feels that ce ntratc a little bit more andWalton said. "The kids that we is nothing that I haven't experi­international expr>rience from this year's freshmen can enjoy focus on the bouts. I think it will did gel and did qualify definitely enced before," Debic said. "All his time on the Hungarian the same success. be an interesting experience." 

page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 23, 2000 
SOFTBALL 

Irish softball kicks off season in Las Vegas tourney 
By RACHEL PROTZMAN Sports \X'riter 
The 2000 lrish Softball team will kick off its sPason this week­end as the womPn travPI to the University of Nevada's Las Vegas Tournament, 
Notre Dame will play five of the 16 participating teams. 
Head coarh Liz Miller, now in her eighth coaching sea­ference. 
The Irish lt-iad off the thre,1-day tournarrrnnt against Portland State Friday morning. Finishing with a 12-37 record last season, the Vikings have nevnr ['aced Notrn Dame in competition. 
Notre Dame plays Southorn Utah next. Thr~ Thunderbirds, ending last year at 10-48 and returning just three of its nine start,~rs, arP-rurrently 0-2. 
Saturday 
morning the 



son at Notre "Right now we set very Irish an' slut­e d to fare
Dame, has high high goals for ourselves. expectations for Oregon. The
We expect to go and win
the opener this llucks stand 
weekend. every game." at4-1inthe "Right now 2000 season, we set very losing only to
Liz Miller 
high goals for fifth-ran kr d 
head coach
ourselves. We Southern 
expect to go and win every game." 
This year the Irish are making their first appearance in the top­25 rankings sinre 1997 with a 22nd place ranking. 
The Irish. coming from a 42­20 record last season, will look to improve on last year. But it won't be easy. 
With an undefeated confer­ence performance, Notre Dame grabbed its first Big East cham­pionship last year before advaming to NCAA Regionals where thev defeated fifth-ranked Michigan' before falling to Nebraska in extra innings. 
This year Notre Dame looks to repeat last year's stellar perfor­mance. 
The team is expected to finish first again in the Big East by a poll of conference coaches. 
The Irish secured eight of nine first place votes. finishing with 64, 11 more than No. 2 Boston College. 
Notre Dame led off this season with a bang at the Kia Classic at Cal State Fullerton. 
The Irish went 4-2 in the tour­nament that included 10 of the top 25 and six in the top 10 rankings. 
Notre Dame advanced to the semifinals after defeating Cal State :\lorthridge. Texas. No.16 Louisiana-Lafayette and No.6 Oklahoma. · 
The Irish fell to No.2 Arizona and No.3 Arizona State. 
Pitcher Jennifer Sharron was honored by the NFCA in last week's outstanding Division I player performance list. Sohpomore pitcher Michelle Moschel and freshman first baseman Andrea Loman were named as the pitcher and rookie of the week by the Big East con­'vlississiµpi. 
They fin­ished last year at 40-29 after advancing to the NCAA Regionals and grabbing the No. 25 national ranking. 
With a 1-1 history against the Dw:ks, Notre Dame looks to have the upperhand. 
Notre Dame is looking to revenge its 6-2 loss to Santa Barbara during the 1999 season. UCSB stands at 3-1 in the 2000 season. 
The Irish end weekend play against Utah. The Utes, picked to finish first in the Mountain West Conference, are currently 0-3 after the Fiesta Bowl Tournament last weekend. 
Although lacking senior lead­ership, the Irish have returned seven starters, including 1999 Big East pitcher of the year, Jennifer Sharron and 1999 Big East player of the year, short­stop. Melanie Alkire. 
Also returning from the all-Big East Team, are outfielders Lizzy Lemire and Jennifer Kriech. 
Notre Dame has a new defen­sive look in the infield this sea­son as freshmen Andrea Loman, Alexis Madrid and Andria Bledsoe are slated to start at first, second and third bases, while sophomore Jarrah Myers switches from third to catcher. 
Joining Lemire and Kriech in the outfield is junior Danielle Klayman, a returning starter. 
The Irish. who have not played outdoors yet this year, face teams that have already started the 2000 season. 
"We have a little catching up to do, but we won't let that be [the other teams') advantage. It doesn't hold us back," Miller said. "We need to go out there and play our game." 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
We're your source for the best theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you needl 
Spring Clearance Sale! 
20-80% OFF ALL BOOKS MARCH 22-24. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE• 234-0003 • cmeehan@com-ctr.corn 
2.37 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), <lowntown So. Bend 
Now open until 6:00 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday! 
Open l 0-5 Mon/Wed/Fri, and 11-6 Tuesffhurs 


Thursday, March 23, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 35 
-----------------------~-------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
'Wl'\11-'T I l)O).i'T VND£RS1MI IS W~\' WE EVEN Nf.E.D 1ES.is fl,'i il.t..L 

Fox TROT 
AND THAT A8oUT 
SUMS U;> THE TWO 
CAMPAIGNS So FMt 
-e;vr;:~c,~1;;... A• "t"~I'> .5'-~C¢1.. 1-1.,_'::. S~E: Df6~Ef OF NTE ll..lt',et-lCE ~lG,l,IT~ E\JE.io'­ONE 1.E"~N~ "TI\E. /'\._•E~~I\L 8Ui Nor E.\IERYe.oO'i CAN $µOW IT ON .._, 'i~S.,.­

TOM KEELEY 
"fE,l>.C."ER', JUST GIVE'.. M '11\E BEN£ ·  v'R E. 1i1NG VR KE.IV  
~  ~  

BlLLAr-.1END 
MEANWHILE, IN LOCAL 
l'IEWS, A lO•YEAR·oLD BoY IS 8EIMG OAN&LEO 
FROM HIS WINDOW... 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

' I 
~~UlUlh111111l':'_~-~ !!,dil!lf@lff 
Which is worse, hypocrisy or pathetic honesty? 
n 
beam.1 @nd.edu 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1111t-:::-t:+=io..t-:::+::+::+=+-:-+=-+:;-l 
___....._-&.;;;;..i 
.;.;.i..;;;..i..;;;.i.;...1 
~~.....::.&..:;;..i 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa~ nying form and mail it today to receive The Obsrrver in your home. 
60 & 62 Runner-up (who cracks me up!) 
65 End-of-book matter 66 Major coca producer 67 Spouse's meek response 68 Unity 
DOWN 
1 Suit to 2 Tug, say 3 Estimator's 
phrase 4 "The Thin Man" 
co-star 5 Business letters? 
6 Popular vodka, 
familiarly 7 Zeroing (in on) 8 Yemeni city 9 Linda _, Supergirl's alias 
10 One way to run 
11 Novelist Tillie 12 "Unchain My Pu:zzle by Manny Nosowsky Heart" singer 
32 Director Louis 
13 Ship to Colchis 
33 Follows
14 Brightly-colored 
35 Shows of 
21 Prima donna 
irritation
problems 23 Buddies 
37 Stars on stage 24 Packinghouse 39 AT&T competitor stamp 
41 Gambling, e.g. 25 Procter & 
44 "Do others
Gamble brand 
" 
26 Jerk 
47 Pacific
27 Shake like 
48 Park feature 
28 Crows' hangouts 30 It may be 51 Surrendered, 
temporary or 
with "in" practical 53 Enticed 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95it per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TiilS 

DAY: Joan Crawford, Chaka Khan, Marty Allen, Moses Malone, Ric Ocasek, Amanda Plummer 
Happy Birthday: This is the year to get serious about being the best that you can be. Don't hold back; do the things that will help raise your self-esteem. The better you feel about yourself, the more successful you will be. Your efforts won't go unno­ticed, and your unique ideas will attract some people with clout. Your numbers:8,10,23,37,41,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your thirst for knowledge must be satis­fied today. Attend lectures or just visit your local library in search of some pertinent information. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Res­idential changes will enhance the value of your property. Do the work yourself. Contractors will cost more thanyoubargainfo~OOO 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotional partner may be difficult if you haven't expressed your feelings lately. Spend quality time or plan a short trip with the one you love. 
000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Busi­ness trips will be successful today. Take care of red tape or legal matters that have been hanging over your head. You can enhance your appear­ance; however, you must avoid extravagance.00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Educa­

tional pursuits or listening to a 
knowledgeable individual will give 
you the answers you've been looking 
for. Take time to digest the informa­
tion before you apply it. 00 
Birthday Baby: You have a strong sense of justice. You will always do what's right. Although uncertainties will be present throughout your life, you will know what needs to be done in order to meet your own criteria. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
Cl 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Your emotional life may interfere with your professional life today. Try to deal with them separately and don't let those you work with in on your personal problems. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl 22): Ask for favors today. You can make financial and professional gains if you play your cards right. Take charge of your life by making the necessary alterations. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can accomplish just as much work­ing at home today. Don't let others put unreasonable demands on you. Say no if you haven't got the time. 
000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The people you live with may try to make you feel guilty, so be pre­pared to put them in their place. Res­idential changes are likely and are a positive direction for you to follow. 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Your discipline will pay off today. Make sure you listen carefully to the thoughts of others. The insight obtained will be far more beneficial than you imagined. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Take heed of the advice given by friends and relatives. You are not likely to think clearly; therefore, run your ideas past those you trust and respect. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: Mix 
business with pleasure and invite colleagues out after hours. Financial ventures should be lucrative if you have taken care of all the angles 
yourself.00000 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Get rid of 8 Loser 
15 City on Lake Ontario 16 ''Well, I_!" 
17 & 18 Spend­thrift's motto (which cracks meup!) 
19 W.W. II combat area: Abbr. 20 Lender's recourse 22 Military mission 23 Stage assistant's job 25 Phnom 26 Goldman (brokerage) 29 Noggin 31 Latin lover's word 
34 They keep people off beaches 
36 Khartoum-to­Nai robi dir. 37 Gray 
38 & 40 American novelist (who cracks me up!) 
42 Staffs 
43 Neediest cases site?: Abbr. 
45 Swinging 
46 Gamy 
47 It might be 
involved in a police roundup 49 Beer delivery 50 Settles with certainty 52 Lore 54 "_ what you say, but ... " 56 Sludge 57 Break 
54 Words to an "old chap" 
55 Harbor 
56 Actor Sharif 
57" Mea Break" (title for this puzzle?) 

58 Sales term 59 Grps. that liaise 
with principals 61 Dietary abbr. 63 Order at the 
Green Dragon 64 China's Piao 



Magnificent Seven 
Fencing heads lo the NCAA championships led by Senior Magda Krol and seven tal­entedfreshmen.
PORTS 
pages 32-33 

O
fHE page% BSERVER Thursday, March 23, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Dillon steps up in Irish victory over Cougars 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sporrs Echror 
Every time Brigham Young looked like it would givn Notrn Dame a run for its money Wednesday nigh l. senior point guard Jimmy Dillon came through for the Irish. 
Dillon tallied four steals to bring his season total to 64 and smash former Irish star David Rivers· 15-year-old single-season record of 61. Dillon's defensive efforts helped li!'t l\lotn, Dame {21-14) to a 64-52 victory over Hrigham Young {22-11 j in the quar­terfinals of the National lnYitation Tournament. 
"It's an honor." Dillon said of the record. "It's a shock. Hut it's a groat accomplishment.., 
Dillon sp11.rkPrl the Irish with his fourth and final steal. which he drib­bled down the court for a breakawav lay-up. Those points ended a more than four-minute scoring drought for thP Irish. and put them ahead 52-45. 
··1 think Jimmy has given us energy all year long." Notre Dame head coach Matt Doherty said. "Ile gives us some athleticism at the guard spot that we need. Ile gives us some toughness. He's a good ball-handler. l think he really enjoys running the show. and he's done a good job. He's a smart player." 
The Cougars countered with a jumper by junior Mekeli Wesley to cut the Irish lead to five. 
Sophomore forward David Graves worked his name into the record book a minute later. Graves tied Ryan Hoover's 1983-84 season record for 3-pointers with his 80th of the year on a Dillon assist that led off an 8-0 Irish run. 
The streak continued as a Harold Swanagan defensive rebound led to another Graves basket. 
On BYU's next possession, Troy Murphy pulled down one of his game­high nine rebounds. The rebound returned the ball to Notre Dame. and 

freshman Mike \.1onscrez nailed a 3­
pointflr for his only points of the 
game. 
"That pass David !Graves! made to Harold !Swanagan! was big." Doherty said of a jumper just before Dillon's final stea.l. "Mike [Monserez]'s shot was big. Jimmy !Dillonl's steal was big. That gave us some lire, and maybe took sornP-lifo from BYU." 
With the Irish now up 60-47, the victorv was virluallv in hand. 13 rig h,i. m Yo u n g <: ria c h St e v n Ckveland knnw things W£!rf' gptting out of control for his squad, and callf'd a :rn-ser.ond timeout. The Irish team sensed they were ·on the verge of another trip to New York, as Graves huggf'd Murphy on tlw way off the court. 
The closost thr, Cougars could r.ome artr. r tlrn tinrnout was an Pight-point deficit wilh 2:09 remaining, following two free throws by Eric Niclsnn and a trey by MidiaPl Vranes. 
Their only hope for victory aftr.r that restAd on sending tlrn Irish to the charity stripe. But the Irish werr, golden from Urn linr.. 
Murphy knocked down two free throws to givP the Irish a 10-point advantage. 
i\otre Dame shot 89 percent from the free throw line on 16-for-18 shooting. 
"It was an ugly game," Graves said. "We found a way to survive by hitting free throws at the end." 
The Irish benefited from 58 porcent shooting l'rom th<' field. while thc Cougars suffered at 37 percent. The Cougars faced a zone det'Pnse for the first time since before Christmas, a challenge they fared poorly against. 

"When you play against a zone, you have to make perimeter shots," Cleveland said. "We don't have the size to battle Notre name inside. If we knock those threes down, this thing goes right to the wire. [f you LIZLANGfTheObserver don't make !open shots] on the road, Graves led the Irish to a 64-52 victory over the Cougars of Brigham Young 
Wednesday night. Notre Dame now advances to the semifinals of the National 
see HOOPS/page 29 Invitation Tournament where they will take on Penn State. 
Midnight Madness arrives on Saint Mary's campus 
By KA TIE MCVOY 
Assist.int Sports Editor 
rirst. there is March Madness. Then. there is Midnight Madness. 
Designed to enhance school spirit and pride. the S a i n t Marv's 
athletic depart­ment has organized the first ever Midnight Madness. On Friday, March 31. Angela Athletic Facility will be rock-

ing with championships, music. and prizes. Midnight Madness will arrive at Saint Mary's. with the grand prize of a trip for two to Chir,ago. 
Athletic Director Lynn Kac.hmarik designed Midnight Madness, along with student director of intramurals, Janel Miller. The event was designed as a way to get the Saint lvlary's community involved in activities on its campus, 
"!L's a great event."Kachmarik said. "This is a way to keep our women on this campus on a Friday night. It's a great opportunity !'or us to come together and celebrate." 
The evening will kick off at 

JO o'clock Friday night with the winter intramural champi­onships. Kachmarik and '.'vliller have been working to revamp the intramural pro­gram in order to get more women involved. This year the intramural teams were associ­ated with residence halls. Each team had to be com­posed of women from only one residence hall. Friday night Kachmarik is looking for sup­port from other women in the residnnce halls. 
"Every rnsidence hall is rep­n~sc n te<l," Ka.chm ar ik said. "We want tho women to come out and support the people they are living wilh." 
Following the conclusion of' the intramural champi­
onships, the focus will shift from hall pride to class pride. Each of the four classes will have its own section in tlrn gym and members of the class should come dressed in the assigned class color. Freshmen should wear white T-shirts, sophomore shou Id wear red shirts, juniors should wear grer.n shirts and seniors should wear blue shirts. Angela will also br, decorated in these colors. 
Following the intramural contests, the ganrns will begin. There will be cross-class com­petitions, ranging from athlet­ic events to trivia contests. Some of the evening's activi­ties are a three-lrgged race, musical chairs, dodgcball. :rn 
second shot contest, and even "What would you do for a Klondike bar?"The evening will also host a tug-of-war between teams composed of freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors. The class that wins the tug of war will face off against a team com­posed of faculty members. 
A DJ will he in Angela all night playing music. and throughout the night there will be various emcees. Particpants will be selected from a box at the door for several 111' the night's competi­tions. 
Women may place their names in the box as they 
see MIDNIGHT/page 29 

Baseball • Fencing at NCAA
at Ohio State 
at Villanova Championships, March NCAA Mideast regionals 
Thursday. 4 p.m. 
Sarurday,noon 23-26 vs. Texas Tech 
SPORTS • ~ 
Saturday, I:30 p.m.

ATA NIT semifinalss Softball 
at North Carolina 

vs. Penn State vs. Purdue (DH) 
(I) 
Lacrosse vs. Hofstra
Saturday, I p.m. 

Saturday, TBA. Thursday, 4 p.m. 
Sunday, I p.m, 

GLANCE • ~ 






