
An 'X'ceptional lesson 
Movie critic Jude Seymour says "/\.meriran llistory X" is a lesson in racial hatred not to be missed. 
Scene . page 17 
Thursday 
SEPTEMBER 21, 2000 

Political Face-Off 
The College Democrat.c; and Republicans square · off about the role that taxes will play in this year's presidential elections. 
Viewpoint . page 15 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 23 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
. 

'Enthusiastic' Welsh junior succumbs to pneumonia 
person iwliol worker! very leukemia tl11• Mondav before ed pneumonia late last week, of her illness. "[She wasl a
. Leukemia left 
hard at her studies," said this school year began, after said Piennette. While hoping very determined young
engineering major l'iennette. "For a person who successfully for a bone woman," 
had SUf'h a lwavv course load beating the marrow Piennette indicated that the
prone to illness 
.... she did disease in "{It was/ a shock for transplant, women of Welsh will feel her best to high school. C l a r y Clary's absence. 
everyone. She was doing
be artiYe in "!It was] a remained "She's a presence that's
By ANNE MARIE l\1ATTINGLY 
the hall." shock for really well, so she said." committed missed in the hall and has
News Fdiror CI a r y, everyone, to returning been since school started, 
from Tyler, s a i d to Notre especially in the junior class,"
Adrienne Piennette
Notre Dame junior and 
Texas, was Piennette, Dame. she said. 
Vvnlsh Family Ila!! rosident a mechani­"She was rectress, "She really Counseling services have Brionno Clary passed away cal engi-doing really Welsh Family Hall wanted to been made available to friends Wednesday from complica­Clary n e e r i n g well, so she get back of Clary, and Piennette hope to tions of leukemia. said Sister major and said." here," said hold a memorial mass later in Adrienne Piennette. rector of active participant in interhall Clary had been in regular Piennette, who explained that the year for her family and Welsh. Clary was 20. basketball. said Piennetie. She contact with friends in Welsh Clary had not returned to friends. She is survived by her 
"She was a very enthusiastic '\\'as re-diagnosed with nearly daily until she contract-school this semester because parents and two sisters. 
STUDENT SENATE 

Members discuss The Observer 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assi,tant News Editor 
The Observnr could lose its indepen­dP ncr at the end of this month. the Student SPnate learned Wednesday 
night.  
The Ad I-loc  
1 11  1 e  r  11  a  I  See Also  
H  e  v  i  e  w  "SMC addresses  
Committee for Tim Observer  paper's status"  
,vas formed to  page4  
investigate the  "Two proposals could  
relations hi.p betwePn The Obscrv1•r and  result in campus changes"  
the University  page 6  
and will  ren­ 
der a dncision  

on actions to take within the next few wePks. 
"University control over The Observer would significantly damage the journal­istic crndibility and day-to-day opera­tion or The Observer." said Mike Connolly, Editor in Chief of The Observer. "As an indep@dent pnblira­tion, Tlw Obsm·ver can, to the best of its ability cover with out bias the pro­grams. events and peoµln of both cam­puses. 
Connolly said he was primarily com­ing lo Urn senate to inform and ask tlwm 10 inform the students within their dorms or tlw c11rrc11t situation. Connolly said if The Observer goes under University control. several of' its employees would be forced to quit their jobs. 
Under the current policy, jobs at The ObsC1rvnr an' parallel to off-campus jobs and do not interfere with a stu­dent's financial aid from the University or the govC'rnment. However, if The Obsnrvnr goes under University control, 
from other venues. education would be forced to stopObserver jobs would be similar to any 
"Observer staff members who invest working at The Observer," Connollyother University job, and llms hinder a 
hours of their free time at the paper for student's ability to rec"ivc scholarships their own cnjoynrnnt or journalistic see THE OBSERVER/page 4 


Zelazny, Weck to lead SMC Class of 2004 
By NICOLE CLERY 
News Writer 
Zoe Zelaznv and Madonna Weck will lead Saint Mary's freshmen into 2001 as the new class officers. 
After· gaining an 8.8 percent lead over their oppo­nents, Abby Van Vlerah Election Stats 
and Megan . Zelanzy/Weck: 53.6% 
Olive, Zelazny 
and Weck won . Van Vlerah/Olive: 46.4% with 53.6 per-. 44% voter turnout cent of the 
vote. 
Only 44 percent of Saint Mary's freshmen voted. and Tuesday's "Meet The Candidates" did not attract a large audi­ence. 
Elections commissioner. Stephanie Pace said that "Meet" did very well but "[We] did not get the turnout we had expected." 
With the campaign pressure finally off, Zelazny and Weck said they are ready to start working. At last n·ight's initial Freshman Council meeting, Zelazny said, "It was such an honor to be elected." 
"Now we'll be doing rverything we can to have a great year," said Weck. The first item of business was class t­shirts. 
"We really want to bring the freshman class together," said Weck of their hopes for this school year. 
Aside from class shirts, Zeiazny and Weck have big plans for their fellow classmates. The duo working on organizing more class­wide Pvents like dances and masses and hope to establish a freshman brothers pro­gram with Notre Dame during their term. 
Looking back over the past few weeks, both Zelazny and Weck felt the elections went really well. One of the key components to their success, Zelazny said, was "getting out and introducing us to everybody," 
Weck agreed that the campaign was excit­ing and she said she especially enjoyed meeting her freshman sisters who "were all very friendly." 

--_J 
----------,.------------------------------------------~------------------~--------­
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, September 21, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Teaching qualifications 
My mother teaches second grade. When most p1wple !mar that, they ask me if rwant to become a teacher, too. My typical response is an emphatic "Never!" 
One of my friends recently mentioned that his 
motlrnr is also a tPar.her. 
hut like rm~. my friend has 
no inllmtions of following in .his mom's footsteps. 
"Especially since I'm going t11 Notrn Dame," my l'ri1,nd addt1d. "My parents am spending a lot of money for me Lo get a good educa­tion here. Maybe if I were going to a state school. back home it would be okay for me to become a teacher." 
I agrned. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are among the lwst and bright­est in the country. Maybe it's okay for us to volunteer to work with litth! kids. But spend our entire careers tP-aching them reading. writing and arithmctir.'? No way. I.et people with lower SAT scores teach nur future generations th(1 skills essential to futurn success in life -or so a lot of us ND and SMC students seem to think. Do you have any idea how disturbing this way of thinking really is? 
The people who teach kindergarten through 12th grade can have a wonderfully positive impact on their students. These teachers are crucial to preparing students for studying fur­ther in college or for entering the workforce. Why shouldn"t our society encourage its best and brightest to become elementary and sec­ondary level teachers? 
Of course, having the academic ability and determination to go to prestigious schools like Notre Dame and Saint Mary's does not make a ptffson a good teacher. _A lot of incredible teach,~rs attended schools ranked far outside 
U.S. News and World Report's top 25. The best teachers are the ones who are caring, patient and dntermirrnd. 
My mom. for instance, has worked tirelessly with students who struggled to learn skills most of us take for granted. My mom has com­forted the t(\ars of countless 7-and 8-year-olds. No matter what, each morning, she and every other teacher must greet each student with enthusiasm and confidence. Her former stu­dents often go out of their way to tell her what a positive influence she had on not only their education but also on their lives. 
Going to a prestigious school does not some­how raise you above the level of elementary and secondary school teachers. Children need and deserve excellent teachers, and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students arc intelligent enough to be among the best educators America's schools could ever offer. 
I know a lot of you out there are wondering what to do with the rest of your lives. Think about becoming a teacher. 
There's no better way to help your communi­ty. 
The r,;ews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and nol necessarily thos<' of The ObsPrver. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Jason McFarley Matt Nania Hdena Payne Graphics Courtney Boyle 
Dana Mangnuson Sports 
Production 
Molly McVoy 
Kerry Smith Vitwpoim 
Lab Tech l'arrick Orlewski Meg Kroener 
The \ lb-.,-cr (USl'S 5<J9 l-40GU) is pt>bl»hcd Mon,-hy throllgh 1-rahy cxcr:pc duru1g el(am and v3c,mon periods. The Observer is a m~mlxr of .-he A.ti,odared Pr~s~. All rcproducrion rights are rcst"rv~d. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Lecture: "Brazil in the  . Film: "Time Regained,"  
90s: Culture and Politics in  6:30 and 9:30 p.m.,  
a Changing Society," 12:30  Annenberg Auditorium,  
p.m., Hesburgh Center 10:-3.  Snite Museum.  
. Lecture: "Should  . Theater: "ThP Abesha  
. Evolution Be Taught in the  Conspiracy," 7::~o p.m.,  
Public Schools?" 7 p.m.,  Saint Mary's Little Theatre.  
Carroll Auditorium.  


Saturday 
. Lecture: "Asian Culture and the Biblical World," 
1:30 p.m.• Notre Dame Room, Lafortune. 
. 
Music: Club Karaoke. CJ p.m., Alumni-Senior Club. 

. 
Film: Road Trip, 8 and 


10:30 p.m., 101 DnBartolo. 
Sunday 

. Jubilee Event: Jubilee Pilgrimage to Notre !Jame: Our Lady's University. 10::30 a.m., Moreau Seminary. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Harvard sues Web site to protect domain name 
CAMBRfDCiE, Mass. 
Notllarvard.com. an online educa­tion site, changed its name Tuesday to PowP.red. com. several months after Harvard University sued the company for trademark infringe­ment. 
l\otHarvard sued the university on July 27 sPeking an injunction to pro­tect its domain name. The university responded by suing notHarvard sev­eral days later: 
But university officials said that despite the fact that notllarvard no longer exists, Harvard will press on with its lawsuit against the company instead of waiting for Powered to turn over the domain name voluntar­ily. . 
"We are seeking a solution that's legally enforceable, instead of rely­ing on an individual's promise," said university spokesperson Joe Wrinn. 


Paul Danziger, a lawyer for Powered, said that the company would be willing to turn the notHarvard domain name over to the 
university on 
WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY 
Students receive Gateway laptops 
MOHGANTOWN, W. Va. 
As part of the Nailler Foundation Computer Scholarship Program, laptop computers are currently available to students in West Virginia University's College of Business and Economics. The laptops are up­to-date Gateway computers. complete with a wireless network card for accessing the local area network with­in the building. "The oldest computer is only a year old," said Carol Henry, Director of Information Technology at the College of Business and Economics. The network offers students Internet access. as well as access to spe­cial business applications like statistic analysis software. Lab printers can also be accessed via the network. If a student enters a dead spot in the building, like a stair­well, downloading or other network activity pauses until re-entering on another floor. The network actually extends beyond the building, out to the street. "I drove by the building on a stormy holiday and saw a student working on his laptop in the network outside the build­ing under the overhang," 1-ienry said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day Soutn Bend Fo:ceoa.st 
kXli'liBtrer !ore:::a.st fer caytirre =rl.i.tirns an:1 hig1 IBTp=ratures 
H  L  
Thursday  ~  69  52  
Friday  ~60 45  
Saturday  r-i'J ~ ' "  64  51  
Sunday  q ,. ' ... ''  66  50  
Monday  ~  60  45  

9,~,~qQQ (f ~ u 
Showers f.-storms Rain Fl~,;ies S~o-~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V,a Associated Pr11tss Graprnc:sNel 

Dec. 7. The delay is 
necessary, .he said. to allow a suit­able transition period for Powered. 
Powered officials said that the company had been planning to change the nAme since early May. 
"The name notllarvard no longer fit our business really well," said Mark Gonzalez, acting vice president of marketing for the company. "It was originally a code name that we usi~d that stuck." 
Gonzalez dismissed the entire con­troversy as "an amazing case of bad timing." If the dispute had surfaced two weeks later, he said, notHarvard would have changed its name already. 
!,ucia Lim, a public relations offi­cer for Powered, said the litigation did not prompt the company to change its name. 
UNIVERSITY OF IDAH0 
School recovers from water scare 
MOSCOW, Idaho 
Test results from Saturday and Sunday-show no prob­lems with the University of Idaho water supply after tests Thursday indicated the presence of coliform bacteria in the UI water system, Ken White, director of facilities management, said. Tho EPA has determined coliform bacteria to be a precursor for harmful bacteria, such as 
E. coli. White said the university has not located any problems with the campus water system and they do not know the cause of Thursday's test result. He said when such a problem occurs it is often the result of construc­tion and adding a new building to the water system. This is what happened when water was shut off at the Commons last semester, White said. Michael Griffel, director of University Residence, said that as soon as the results came back positive on Friday, action was taken to ensure the safety of those students who live on campus. Fliers telling students to either boil or avoid drinking the water were posted at all water fountains, restrooms. showers and building entrances. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 21. 
FRONTS, 


~ ....__,._ ~ 

~ 2000 AccuWealher, tnc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Prossur~: 

® © D D D -. D D 
High Low ShO\l'l'~ra Rl'lln T·sto-nns Flurrloa Snow tee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via l\ssocui/ed Press 
Atlanta 80 66 De1roit 64 44 Oklahoma City 87 55 Boston 71 57 Los Angeles 71 62 San Francisco 75 57 Chicago 62 46 Miami 87 78 St. Louis 80 53 Dallas 96 64 Nashville 82 57 Seattle 66 46 Denver 68 48 New York 68 60 Wash DC 71 62 
Thursday, September 21, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

ND soccer games kick off to Latin-American rhythms 
By LIZ ZANONI News Writer 
Although over a month has pnssP-d sinre the Notre Dame women's soccer team returned home from its 10-day pre-sea­son excursion in Brazil, players arc reminded of the South American culture every time they step onto Alumni Field to defend their home turf. 
As warm-up begins, players glance to the packed benches on the opposite side of the field to hear the sound of the first Rrazilian brat from a small but loyal group of' percussionists. 
"All over the world, there is no soccer willwut percussions; it's part of' the game," said Notre Dame computer science and r.ngineering professor Hamzi Bualuan. 
Bualuan, along with a few devout musicians, for two years have played nonstop for thR full I.JO minute games at the men and women's socrer matches. The drum beats turn Notre Dame soccer games into a cul­turally unique experience by creating Latin beats from the Irish sideline. 
In South America and Europe, soccer thrives on sounds from an impassioned crowd. For diehard fans in countriPs where thousands pack stadiums to view their national sport. the intensity of a 
Erikson said that the sounds know their limits. from the percussion help set "There must be a happy bal­the pace for the players on the ance between the great amount field. "It helps you get into the of enthusiasm expressed in the 
rhythm  and  crowd and a  
flow of game," Erikson.  the said  "There must be a happy balance between the  healthy respect for what the  
Loyal Irish soccer fan Nick Pacelli enjoys the upbeat  great amount ofenthusi­asm expressed in the crowd and a healthy respect for what the  game is about," said Wolf. "I think it can be hard  
atmosphere  game is about. "  f  o  r  
the  percus­ Americans to  
sion adds to the game. "It makes the  Ed Wolf band founder  understand the culture of soccer," said  
soccer game  Irish defend­ 
more of a cul­ er  Nancy  

tural event, rather than just a Mikacenic whose Croatian roots sporting event," said Pacelli. have allowed her to witness 
Despite the wide spread pop­first hand the differences in ularity of Bualuan, Wolf and the attitudes at soccer matches other percussionists, they were abroad. forced to put down their instru­Mikacenic and her team ments last season when the Big members agree that playing in East Conference banned all Brazil last August was some­noisemakers due to an incident thing different than what they at another university where the would have experienced travel­crowd was taunting the players ing around the U.S. from behind their bench. At the As more American children next Big East meeting Apple enroll in soccer each year, it is pushed for a reconsideration of only a matter of time before the issue and, the committee players and fans alike will learn realizing it had taken extreme more about the cultures that measures, retracted the rule. envelope the sport, Wolf said. 
"Our percussion band is in "Over the years soccer is the spirit of the game," said developing a following that is Apple. . slowly carving it's own niche in 
Wolf agrees that fans must American culture," said Apple. 
soccer game proves that a match can be just as much fun for the fans as it is for the play­ers. 
This rhythmic tradition from abroad has transferred to South Bend thanks to former men's coach the late Mike Berticelli and then assistant coach, Chris Apple, who approached Bualuan two years ago seeking for a way to inject more excitement into the soccer matches. 
Bualuan. who was managing a band now called San de Aqui, a salsa group playing Cuban, Puerto-Rican and Caribbean 
music, was aware that traditional Brazilian beats could animate and energize a soccer game. 
T h e 
Brazilians utilize a vari­Pty of percus­sion instru­ments includ­ing congas, timbales. 
snare drums, guiras, cowbells and shakers. 
"lts something about the beat of the drums. They say it's why the Brazilians have such a beautiful rhythm to their game," said Apple. "When the drums start beating, excitement fills the air." 
Ed Wolf. a 1993 Notre Dame graduate from South Bend who had the original idea for the Afro-Latin band, participates along side Hualuan and others to produce the rhythms at the games. 
According to Wolf; the lead drummer watches for a change of action by the players on the field and then calls to the other drummers to either speed up or slow down their beat. 
"Each instrument has its own role within the band," said Wolf who enjoys the organization 
"It's a specific rhythm. We find the rhythm to fit the excitement ofthe soc­cer game. We feel award­ed by a wonderful play in the game." 
Ramzi Bualuan professor, computer science and engineering 
and flow of the drum­mers in tune with each other. KThe cheer has to be continu­ous, like the gamP is con­tinuous." 
"It's a spe­cific rhythm. We find the rhythm to fit the excite­ment of the 
soccer game," said Bualuan who hopes that the intense beats provide energy to the players and crowd. "We feel awarded by a wonderful play in the game." 
Senior forward Mcotis 

Interested in "running your own business" in a challenging, fast-paced envi­ronment with unlimited growth opportunities? Target headquarters is hiring entry-level Business Analyst Executives for our corporate offices in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
Welcome to Target, one of the country's fastest-growing retailers. 
Target recruiters are visiting the University of Notre Dame! Please check us out while we are on campus! 
• Join Target executives Kristin Pederson (ND '99) and Stacey Geist (ND '98) 
at the University of Notre Dame Career Fair on September 21st in the Mendoza College of Business. 
• 
Join Target executives Paul Burke (ND '98), Mark Muckerheide (Target Team Member) and Gina Ryan (Target Team Member) for the Target Media Presentation on September 26th from 6:00-7:30 p.m. in the Alumni Senior Club -acasual presentation regarding Target, the Business Analyst in Merchandising position and Minneapolis, MN -pizza, beverages, and prizes. 

• 
Join Target executives Cathy David (ND '85), Dave Gerton (Target team member) and Mary Irene Slatt (ND '99) for the Target Prenight Presentation on October 25th from 7:30-8:30 p.m. in the Alumni Senior 


Club -a casual presentation on the specifics of the Business Analyst in Merchandising position -treats and prizes. 
• Join Target executives Cathy David (ND '85), Dave Gerton (Target team member) and Mary Irene Slatt (ND '99) for interviews on Oct. 26th in the Career Center, Interview Center in Flanner Hall. Sign-up via the Notre Dame website! 
We had great success at the University of Notre Dame last year. Matt Funk (ND '99) began his career as a Business Analyst at Target in January. Andrea Kle·e (ND '00), Melissa Gaydos (ND '00) and Kara Hoadley (ND '00) started in Sep­tember as Business Analysts. EOE 
--~----. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 21, 2000 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 




SMC addresses paper's status 
By AMY GREENE 
News \X1rim 
The issue of The Observer's independ1111ce was discussed f'or tho l'irst time with Saint Mary's stud!'nl government ol'licials at Wednesday's Board or GovPrna11c<' meeting. 
"!\lost ol' thn discussion on this issue has !wen happening on tlw other side ol'U.S. 31," s a icl No ree II Gill cs piI! • t Im Managing Editor of' The Ohserv1~r. "This is not only Nolrn Dame's newspaper." 
Tlw Observer has been dis­cussing its relalionship with tlw Univorsity since tlrn I999­;woo m:adcrnic year. 
CillespiP Pxplairwd tlrn histo­ry or llw paper and whnre the discussion stands at 
University President . fathnr Edward Malloy at the end of the month. Gillespie emphasized that the indepen­dence of the paper is crucial for both the College and the University. 
"You, as students, have the opportunity to pick up a daily campus newspaper and know that thn coverage is unbiased, uninfluenced and reported eth­ically because of our position as an indPpendent newspaper," shP said. "You am onn of the r,1w campuses in the nation that still has this opportunity." 
c;ill,ispiP explainrd that the 1iditorial board dons not br.lieve 

The Observer would be able to function if it went under the control of the University. 
"Should we fall under University control, The Observer as we know it will not exist." she said. 
After hearing tho information Gillnspie brought. the members ol' the board discussed what steps they should take, if' any. Board members agreed that tinw is necdf'd to fully under­stand lhe situation before a rlecision can be marle. The 
issue  was  tabled  until  next  
Wednesday's meeting.  
"I just want to  make  sure  

everyone on our hoard is fully educated," student body presi­rl1mt Crissie Hcnner said. 
The board will be reading a 
packet of informa­tion on the his­tory of 
T h e 
Observer and its relation­ship with b o t h institu­t i O 11 S before 11 e X t week's meeting. 
"The members w e r e 
The Observer 
continued from page 1 
said. "The high standards of The Observer would be com­promised by the potential loss of numerous critical staff members from all facel'l of the newspaper." 
How1wer. Connolly said University control of' The Observer would have an even more adverse effect on the credibility of the paper. 
"Even more critical that the Joss of valued staff members would be the loss of the credibility among the student body. The Observer was J'oundnd in 1966 in responsc to l11P. stu­dents need for an independent voice separate from the University-controlll~d mcdia which was seen as merely a voice of the administration." he said. 
"The indepnndence of The Obs0rvcr is not just a concern of the GPneral Board of The Observer but rather a concern for the whole community. A voice covering the govcrnnrnnt, with editorial policies set by the government cannot be unbi­ased." 
Christinr, Kral.y. Assistant Managing Editor of' The Observer, said The Observer must look out for its f'uturn and although this is a small step by the University now. it could just be the beginning. 
"I don't think tlrn University is going to start Ii ring the Observer staff right now, but we havn to look down the line. Who knows what this will mean for the f'uturn," she said. "We're not just looking out !'or us, we'rn looking out for what's to happen in years to come. It is a risk we're taking, but we're taking il for them, notjust for us." 
Mark Leahey, chaplain for the student senatP, questioned Connolly and Kraly on whether it was worth risking losing The ObsPrver for the issue of independence. 
"It seems the only time that the administration has had a problem with The Observer is when it published materials against Catholic teaching. Do you really believe this fight is worth fighting?" Leahey questioned. 
Connolly responded by saying that students would lose faith in The Observer if it were a puppet of the administra­tion. 
"We need the freedom to criticize Father Malloy and the administration," Connolly said. "The only reason people believe when we print something good about them is because they know we also have the right to criticize them. Students can't think that we'll feel threatened if we say something bad ab9ut the administration," he said. 
Vice president Brook Norton urged senators to review the situation and support The Observer's independence. 
"One of the only ways we can speak freely on this campus is [through] The Observer," she said. "It is our main outlet for freedom of speech and we want people to know what is happening." 
t h ci momnnt. According t 0 Gillespie. t h e University has a com­mitt Pe investigat­ing its rela­tionship with the papnr and will make a proposal lo 
"fou, as students. have the opportunity to pick up a daily campus newspaper and know that the coverage is unbiased, uninjl.uenced and reported ethically because ofour position as an independent newspaper. ... Should we fall under University control, The Observer as we know it will not exist. " 
Noreen Gillespie Managing Editor, The Observer 

presented with a lot of infor­mation," student body vice president Michelle Nagle said. "We want to be fully knowl­edgeable before making any decision." 
In addition to the current status of The Observer, the board discussed sexual assault, a topic that has become increasingly impor­tant on Saint Mary's campus 
"As student leaders and liaisons, it is our duty to edu­cate more naive students anrl make them aware of incidonts occurring on campus," said vice president. Michelle Nagle. 
There has been discussion whether Saint Mary's security is effectively monitoring and educating students about reported incidents. Security has not commented. 
"Knowing sexual assaults and rapes have occurred on your campus is a very scary thing. But inc:idents like these have and will happen on college campuses. We nend to raise awareness and realize that Saint Mary's is no different," 
said  board  member.  Julie  
rrischkorn.  
Security  currently  posts  

"Crime Alert" fliers alerting students of reported assaulls occurring on c:ampus. 
"Many assaults go unreport­ed, however. and remain off the record," Frischkorn said. 
The HOG proposed to have a forum to raise awareness about sexual assault, but did not set a date. 
The Board of Governance also focused on increasing school spirit. Saint Mary's annual Pride Week will kick off next Monday with a picnic and "gives students an opportunity to really come out and support our athletics and school." said vice president, Michelle Nagle. 
In other BOG news, an "Interview Skills Workshop" will be held today in Madeleva at 5 p.m. and Whitney Ross and Kate Moeller are McCandless Hall's new president and vice president. 
Molly McVoy contributed to this report. 



If you are interested in representing Notre Daine at your high school over fall break or Christinas break, you \.Vill need to attend an information session on Tuesday, September 19 or Thursday, Septe1nber 21 at Too pm in 155 DeBartolo. 
Questions: E-mail Mike at Seeley.4@nd.edu 
Thank You! The Admissions Office 



Thursday. September 21, 2000 COMPILED FH0M THE OBSERVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Peru president fires chief spy: 
Prcsid~nt Alberto Fujimori has assunid Peruvians that military commandnrs aro loyal to him and theni is no dangnr of rnlrnllion OV('r liis decision to firP his foarnd spy chief. who has strong allies in the high command. 
BuL Lhe armed l'orcos rnmai,wd ominously silPnl WPdnPsday -in sharp contrast to the swif'L. rock-solid support thny cxprcssed !'or Fujimnri w!wn hr shut Crmgn~ss in \'l92 ­and tliat sile11c:e worried many in 1.his country with a history of' coops. 
Kosovo War crimes trial ends: A 
Serb studnnt was snnLnncecl LO 20 ynars in prison Wrdnosday for killing ethnic Albanians in thn first trial for war crimes commilted in Kosovo during th\:' crackdm'lln by Yugoslav forcHs last yPar. Milos Jukic, 21, was round guilty of killing Hexlwp Emcrllahu, 27, ordering tlrn killing of anothC!r ethnic Albanian and of raping an f'thnk Albanian woman. I le was also found guilty of' illegal possession of arms. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Nevada Senate race tightens: 
HPpublican John Ensign's 20-point IPad in N<•vada's U.S. SnnatP race over Dcmocralic challPnger Ed BPrnstPin has bern cul ,warty in half. according to a JW\.V poll. Tim poll, taken for tlw Las V1•gas HPviPw-Journal and lasvegas.com and published over tlw weekend, showNI Ensign's support had dropped to 50 p<TcPnt, down l'(·om :,(, percent in a .Jmw poll. lfornstPin was llw choi\'P of 39 pPrcent, up i'rnrn .lmw's 36 percent. 
Pentagon had access to classified files: The Pentagon acknowledged Wednesday that it had accPss in 1998 to computer files that would havr pPrrnitted thP agency to assess the damagP of' dassifipd information entered on unsecured computers by fornwr CIA Director .John D(,utch. Thr Pentagon. which only brgan its itrn'.stigation in February, initially blamed tlw dPlay on a lark of acTr.ss to the docmrnrnts or computl'r files that contained the secrets. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Dogs kill census worker: The owners of a Brown County home where a pack of dogs attacked and killr.d a 71-year-old u.S. Census worker will be tried in Nashville on charges o!' r.riminal recklessness. A -request by lawyers rcprPsPnting Way,w Newton and Joann Latvaitis for change of venue to another coun­ty has been denied by Brown Circuit Judge .Judith Stewart. 
Market Watch 9/20 

Dow 
I0,687.92 -l0J.37 

/ONES 
• 
Composite
Same:
Uf>t 
Volume:
1.086 480 
1,268.189,984 

AMfX: 936.77 -13.91 Nasdaq: 3897 44 +3 l.80 NYSE: 653,84 -7.27 · S&l' 500: 1451.34 +8.56 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY .•:oCHANGE $GAi:::!, PIUCE 
INTI'.! l'!lRl'!INTCi  +4.4'1  +2..68  ,~.1i 0(1  
U\Ul w, J'E/,I\ ,c,cu1  . I.Kl  , 1.12  (d.l!  
llFI I < < IMl'I I ll'H ([)El.I I  +{J_!l)  ~2..l'-1  18%  
\\'JU I H '.t lM INl -i\\/{'l)\j \  .;_\j(,  -1. 12  D ..11  
\11! '.I{( l\! l~ I (:,>HI' 1,\·\Sl· I I  I "  -0,7'\  h<L.~'l  

YUGOSLAVIA 

Democratic Opposition Supporters of Serbia fill the street in front of the Yugoslav parliament building in Belgrade Wednesday. President Slobodan Milosevic appeared before the parliament opposition campaign rally before federal elections were held this weekend. 

Thousands support Milosevic rival 
Many shouted, "lle's fin­Yugoslavia's two republics, tial law. 
Associated Press 

ished,;. waving signs with where pro-Western leaders At the sports hall, in a 
BELGRADE the same slogan or pictures have urged residents to gathering complete with 
Morn than 150,000 peo­of Milosevic headed out the boycott what it considers an standing ovations and the ple jammed the streets out­door. Others chanted, "Save unfair vote. orchestrated rhythmic side parliament Serbia from this madhouse, In Belgrade, the president clapping, Milosevic said Wednesday, jeering at Kostunica," or jeered loudly later addressed about the opposition is "incited President Slobodan at any mention of the presi­10,000 supporters in a [by the West] to spread Milosevic and chanting, dent's name. sports hall across the Sava terrorism and crime ... "lle's finished," in an elec­"There is a great chance River while Kostunica pre­and destroy families tion rally for his top oppo­and hope that after pared to speak. Although through religious sects, nent that dwarfed a pro­[Sunday's} elections, we will the size of the hall limited spy groups and drug Miloscwic gathering nearby. begin a new life in different the crowd, the turnout for lords." 
Opposition candidate Serbia." Kostunica told the the candidates' rallies He vowed to fight the 
Vojislav Kostunica joyful crowd, concluding his backed the message of "evil" op position "which 
promised a "different speech with: "May God help recent polls. wants to destroy the 
Serbia" in an address to the you to have enough courage Opinion surveys show minds of our children and 
crowd outside Belgrade's ... to win freedom. For Kostunica with a double­youth ... just like we 
Fmleral Parliament building Serbia." digit lead on Milosevic. fought the aggressors," 
in a boisterous display of Milosevic labeled his There are fears, however, during last year's NATO 
anti-Milosevic sentiment opponents "rats and hye­that Milosevic would not bombing that forced 
before presidential and par-nas" while on a campaign concede a loss and could try Milosevic to cede control 
1iamfrn tary elections stop earlier Wednesday in to stay in power by rigging of Kosovo to the United 
Sunday. Montenegro, the smaller of the vote or imposing mar-Nations. 
ENGLAND 

Explosion rocks MI6 headquarters 
which sent crews to the scene, said believed to be an explosion. 
Associated l'ress thc>re had bef'n no rf'ports of any Police, who said only that they casualties 90 minutes aft.er the were investigating two loud bangs.
LONDON 

rnported blast. "I think an hour and a immAdiately closed off the area.
Firelighters and witnesses said at 
half later it is safe to assume there The building looked intact from a
lrnst ono possibln flxplosion wrnt off 
are none," a spokesman said. distance of several hundred yards,.
late Wednesday near tho lleadquar­A report overhf'arrl on the police but witness James Trott, 42, said
ll'rS ol' Lhe MIG intelligence SBrvice in 
radio said everyone in l.he building there was shattered glass on the
central London. Emergency oflicials 
had been accounted for and that river side of the building.
n~porled no casua!Lies. 
Lht're were no injuries. The M16 headquarters, a big mod­
The hlast reportedly took µJaco in 
A London Firn Brigade spokesman ern structure, was featured in thethn ;.irea of tho \;fl6 building, closP to 
said crews were called to the James Bond movie "The World is
Vauxhall Bridge, which crosses the 
Vauxhall Cross area on the south not Enough" and in one scerie was
Thames Hivm· not far from lhi> llousps 
bunk of the River Thames at 9:25 shown being blown up by a terror­
of ParliamenL 

p.m., and that the incident was ist bomb.
The> London !\mbulancn ServicP, 
• t •••••• 

i-• I · • '" 1 • " " , , • t J ~-, • , •
-1 • / 1 i I ' f I l -. ; • \0 l I • I 
~ -, \; ~ • • , 4 t t Ii•~--•\•; "•' '• 'r i ·' • . •," · f, .. -.. -. . .. . -.. -....
• I , j I • l .. , ' , ~ -' 
, .. ~~ ..... 1.. .. ,.,t1t1,1r.1.:.1, f..J.~ 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 21, 2000 
STUDENT SENATE 




Two proposals could result in campus changes 
. Resolution may add faculty voice to Student Senate 
By LAURA ROMPF Amsram New~ Ediior 
Thn Student Senate approved an anwndment Wednesday night that will add a faculty senate rncrn!wr to its body. Faculty Scnat1! will appoint one ol' its nrnmhers to be the liaison with speaking, but not voting privi­leges. 
"We decided we wanted some­one f'rom the faculty to be a mnmhei· of the senate. Wo want to givn them speaking privileges oecause it is our hope that we will then bP given sp1•aking priv­ileg(:s lat Faculty SmiateJ," said Kathleen Bufalin. Farley sena­t.or. 
The Student Senate will review and approve the nomination for the liaison that cannot serve morn than two consecutive tnrrns at a time. Thn liaison will attend the weekly meetings of the Student Senate. 
Although the student liaison to Faculty Senate does not have speaking privileges, the senate decided tn give the faculty mem­ber to its body speaking privi­leges. Many senators folt advice f'rom a faculty member would be useful for senate decisions. 
"It is important that we make informed decisions that will posi­tivnly alfoct the Univr,rsity," said Cavanaugh senator Kristen Caponi. "Why would we want to limit ourselves and the knowl­!'dge wP can receive''" 
KPvin Berchou. Sorin hall sen­ator, pointed out that although tlw faculty nrnmbrr can spt!ak. they still cannot vote. 
"Thn kev is to rnmember that llwy am anon-voting member. We still havl' the ultimate say. W1! will get anollwr pPrspoctive but we'rn not losing any control. Tlwy havn no vote, but we still havo their inpllt," he said. 


Student senators and student body president Brian O'Donoghue consider appointing a faculty rep­resentative to the senate. Many students felt the senate should remain an independent voice. 
·corps, d.
"With Atnert netghborhoo b .vond rn-Y . 
,,

e1 e t urne.
for the 1.1rs 

After graduating from college, Josh Borus joined AmeriCorps to help the youngest members of his community--and he discovered a whole new world. As a teacher's aide in a low-income 
neighborhood near his home in Boston, Josh worked with students well beyond the regular school hours and provided support they often didn't get at home. "If you see a problem, you have a responsibility to do something about it," Josh says. 

"AmeriCorps gave me that chance." 
Post-Graduate Volunteer Fair Wednesday, September 27, 2000 6pm-9pm • Stepan Center 
For more information contact Courtney Nicholas at (312) 353-0574 or cnicholas@cns.gov. 
AmeriCorps: Are you up to the challenge? 
1-800-942-2677 www.americorps.org/joining 
Although the majority of sena­tors agreed with Berchou and Caponi. Pasquerilla East senator Nikki McCord said the faculty member should not have speak­ing privileges. 
"The Student Union Senate is designed for the students." McCord said. "We as senators represent the voice of the stu­dent body. I believe that there should be. a faculty member on the Student Union Senate, how­ever their voice should be heard in the context of committee 
meetings." 

"I am eager tu hear some of the suggestions that Lhe faculty members have to offer. llowever. those opinions should be voiced through committee reports submitted by the student committee chairs. We should keep the Student Union Senate fully run by the students so that we can accurately represent the student body," she said. 

l.saw 
But overall students thought the faculty member should have speaking privileges, and voted to pass the amendment. 
"It is important that we give them speaking privileges brcause what they do affects us ... and what we do may affect them. 
I feel they'll only contribute when it's helpful." said Pangborn senator Kaitlyn Dudley. 
In other senate news: 
. The committee on g<inder issues is working on having sex­ual assault meetings in ear,h dnrm next year. Committee members met with Jeff Shoup of RcsLife and are planning meet­ings that would be tailored sepa­rately for men and women. 
. 
The committee on residence life met with Shoup and Bill Kirk to discuss issues about 24-hour space and food service. Because inequalities exist between dorms, the committee is working on compiling a list of what stu­dents can do in 24-hour space. 

. 
The committee on University affairs met with Broadwing and is collecting information on long distance ca_lling at the University. 

. 
A joint academic affairs aml university affairs subcommittee was formed to examine the 1lonor Code. 



. $70,000 aimed at improving Rock 
By LAURA ROMPF 
/\ssistanr News Editor 
South Quad students won't 

have to walk far after fall break to workout on new equipment. RecSports has spent $70,000 to upgrade the recrnational facilities at the Hocknc Memorial. 
A resolution passed by Student Senate last March requested the upgrade of the exercise equipment at the Rockne Memorial, and according to Sally Derengoski f'rom the office of RecSports. that resolution was the incentivr, HecSports needed to petition for the new equipment. 
"We takn your suggestions very seriously," Derengoski said. "We took the article from The Obsnrvor [about the resolution I and showed it to many people." 
Derengoski said when Rolfs Sports Recreation Center was built. the University was hoping to have two good facilities rather than a good and bad one. 
"From my standpoint, the Hock is a beautiful building and it is in a great location. We want to have two great facilities and it was general knowledge that the Hock needs an upgrade," she said. 
"For the basic person wanting a general workout of cardiovascular and Weight training, this will be a great room." 
Clarity Consulting, Inc. 
Looking for a career in a small but nationally recognized technology consulting firm? 
Clarity Consulting, Inc., with offices in downtown Chicago, specializes in building high-profile web sites and e-business systems for clients ranging :rom s,:nall startup~ to Fortune 50 companies. Our consultants participate 1n ful_l-l•fecycle pro1ects and are experienced in strategic planning, requirements analysis, technical design, custom application development and project management. 
• 
Clarity has developed a reputation for building robust, scalable web sites and e-business systems. 

• 
Clari_ty is ~ Mi~rosoft Solution Provider Partner and has a close working relat1onsh1p with many of the Microsoft product groups. 

• 
Clarity consultants regularly speak at premier technical conferences around the country and have articles published in national trade publications. 

. 
~larit~ consultants have diverse educational and technical backgrounds, including Computer Science, Engineering, Business, and Liberal Arts. 


Clarity will be discussing career opportunities in an on-campus presentation. ff you want an exciting career that offers continuous challenges and a great future. mark our presentation on your calendar. Visit www.claritycon.com for more information. 
Date: Thursday, September 21st Time: 7PM-9PM Place: Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room 
*Refreshments will be served 
CL\RITY 

CONSl ILTi\C; 
IM!crosof1:­
lf0Mi , , · 
,..rtnor 


Thursday, September 21 , 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 


Belanger: Music part 
Author to question evolution 
By KATIE McVOY 
News Writer 
Tlw Scopes Monkey Trial opened the question, and now scholar and author Robert Pennock will visit Saint Mary's to take a stab at answPring the the sarrw ques­tion: Should evolution be taught in publir schools? 
l'mmock. an associate pro­fessor at tlrn Lyman Briggs School at Michigan State, rnccnUv wrotn "The Tower of Bairn!: Tlw Evidence against the New Creationism." Thursday night Pennock will givt' a lccturn rintitled "Should Evolution Bn Taught in the Publi(' Schools? What Dorothy Leanwd wlwn tlw Crnationist Whirlwind llit Kansas." The !rn:lurp will takP plac1· at 7:30 p.rn. in Carroll Auditorium. 
Thomas Platt. associate pro­t'Psso r of biology at Saint Mary's, lwliPvPs Pennock's dis(';lssion on this topic will draw students. faculty and nwmbPrs ol' lhP surrounding community. 
"This is· a topic not only of interest to members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. It will also bring members from the surround­ing community," Platt said. 
rriday Pennock will give a lecture entitled "Ethical Challenges of Emerging Biotechnologies" in Stapleton Lounge at noon. This lecture will be a more technical dis­cussion. 
"The talk on bioethics was created for a smaller venue that is more focused on stu­dents and faculty," Platt said. 
Both issues -evolution in tho classroom and biotechnol­ogy -arc prominent on the campusos of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, as well as in the world al large, 
"These am two isstws ol' sig­nif'icant public conc:Prn," Platt said. "llow science should be taught and issuos ol' bioethics am both important issues." 
The lecturn will be spon­sored by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's chapter of tlrn Sigma Xi llHscarch Society, presented in conjunc­tion with the Saint Mary's 


1-5323 
departments of biology and philosophy, and the dean or faculty. 
The Saint Mary's depart­ments sponsoring the event believe it presents an excel­lHnt opportunity for students. 
'Tm absolutely delighted !Pennock! is coming here," Platt said. "This is an oppor­tunity for students to be exposed to one of the frontline thinkers in this area." 
Pennock is the recipient of the Templeton Prize for Exemplary Paper in Theology and Natural Sciences and a National Endowment !'or the llumanities/National Science Foundation followship on Scientific, Ethical and Social Challenges or Contemporary Gc~netic Technology award win1wr. 
Pennock will come to Saint Mary's after being named a national Distinguished Lecturer for 2000-2002 by tlrn Sigma Xi Society. Both of his lectures arc open to all stu­dents and faculty of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity. 
of Hispanic culture 
By KATIE MILLER 
:'/cws Writer 
Culture. Diversity. Tradition. Professor Marc Belanger used these ele­m1mts to define the pluralis­tic culture of Latin American music during a lecture Wednesday afternoon. Belanger held the lecture at the request of students as part of a celebration or Hispanic heritage month. 
"Leaving many issues aside, being llispanic covers a very diverse group or peo­ple. I've learned a lot about diversity in music from dis• cussions in my Latin American politics class," Belanger said. 
Belanger used music from bis personal collection to demonstrate the different influences found in Hispanic music. 
"Forces from the past 400 to 500 years shape Latin music," he said. 
Relanger opr,ned the dis­cussion with a Spanish piece from the 14th Century enti­tled, "He Who Serves the Virgin Well." 
"At this point in history, Spain has not been to the New World, but it is already multicultural. Christians, Jews and Muslims populated 
Spain at this time. It was a very cosmopolitan place," said Belanger. 
Spain's conquest of America brought disease and brutal conquest to the indigenous people, according to Belanger. 
"Yet there was more than just the bloody aspect. this began with the Virgin of Guadelupe," he said. Belanger demonstrated this with a piece from the 15th century that was written by an Aztec composer in praise of the Virgin Mary. 
While the Spanish were conquering the indigenous people both militaristically and culturally. slave traders were also bringing Africans to the Americas. This adderl to Latin-American culture, Belanger said. 
"You can hear [an African] presence in the music," said Belanger. who played a 17th Century Mexican song that com bines a class.ic chorus with an African beat. 
Belanger also played music of the 195 0 s by Ruben Gonzales, a Cuban composer. 
"Personally, I feel that Cuban music is the most influential of all Latin American music. Life is faster; the music speeds up," Belanger said. 
:> 

ARTHURANDERSEN 
Drop us a line. (Or two.) 
Assurance Business Consulting Corporate Finance eBusiness Human Capital Legal Services Outsourcing Risk Consulting Tax Services 

Interested in a career at Arthur Andersen? Earning your degree in accounting, finance, MIS, CAPP, or engineering? 
Now's the time to let us know! We're holding our first round of on-campus interviews for all our U.S. offices on October 4. 
Drop your resume on GO !RISH! by 8:00 in the morning on Monday, September 25. And get in line for your future! 
www.arthurandersen.com 
Note: The services offered in particular areas may depend on local regulations. In some locations, legal and/or tax services are provided by Andersen Legal, the international network of law finns that is associated with Andersen Worldwide SC. 
Arthur Andersen refers to the U.S. firm of Arthur Andersen LLP and other members of the Arthur Andersen global client service network. © 2000 Arthur Andersen, All rights reser.1ed. 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 21, 2000 




SIU_dent Union Happ1Jnings 
Find out where the fun i§ 
This week: 
Next week: 

lSept.25-301 

Today: Men 1sTennis Tournament (All Day) Women 1sVolleyball 7pm AcoustiCafe 9pm LaFortune Huddle Movies: Road Trip 101 DeBartolo 10:30pm 
The Wizard of Oz (with Pink Floyd 1s Dark Side of the Moon Soundtrack) 155 DeBartolo 10:30pm 
Friday: ND Cross Country meet vs. National Catholic 4:15pm ISSA presents American Culture Through Music Dance Party: Alumni Senior 
Club 5-7pm Hayride/Campfire w/ Flipside 7:30 pm In Hall Formal: 01Neill Hall 1Time Regained 11 6:30, 9:30 Snite Movies: Road Trip 101 DeBartolo 8pm & 10:30pm The Wizard of Oz (with Pink Floyd 1s Dark Side of the Moon Soundtrack) 
155 DeBartolo  8pm & 10:30pm  
Saturday: 11 Time Regained 11  6:30, 9:30 Snite  
Movies: Road Trip 101 DeBartolo  8pm & 10:30pm  

The Wizard of Oz (with Pink Floyd's Dark Side of the Moon Soundtrack) 155 DeBartolo 8pm & 10:30pm 
Sunday: Men 1s Soccer vs. Connecticut 1pm Women1s Soccer 3pm 
September 25: 11 The Conversation 11 7pm Snite Museum 
September 27: 11 Cafecito con leche11 w/ Ray Blanco LaFun Ballroom 7:30pm 
September 28: Los Angeles Guitar Quartet: 8 PM -Hesburgh Auditorium AcoustiCafe 9pm LaFortune Huddle Movies: Return to Me 101 DeBartolo 8pm 
Godfather Trilogy 155 DeBartolo 8pm 
September 29: Women's Volleyball 7pm In-Hall Dances: PW, Morissey, Cavanaugh, Walsh, Alumni, Fisher Movies: Return to Me 101 DeBartolo 8 & 10:30pm 
Godfather Trilogy 155 DeBartolo 8 & 10:30pm Timecode 8 & 1Opm Snite Museum 
September 30: Keough Chariot Race 12-3 PM McGlinn Fields IRISHAPALOOZA 5PM -midnite North Quad In-Hall Dances: Farley, Pangborn, Keough, Knott, Sorin, McGlinn Movies: Return to Me 101 DeBartolo 8 &10:30pm 
Godfather Trilogy 155 DeBartolo 8 & 10:30pm Timecode 8 & 1Opm . Snite Museum 
Thursday, September 21, 2000 
The Observer . NEWS 

L~l~tt WlJ)) Sth!ilirl!~l'.l~ L~f;;,1~~ ll·U~Uttlt,.11 Cl~.1~i1~~ 
., 


~ 1 · 
·•. ,.· .......,,y .. 
,•'$ ~~......'t 
•

When ND students choose to·drink 
.,, '• ... 

men have 5 or....fe 
_. ~­


drinks per eveni 
..... _,,,


womenhav · 
I 
·'1·.......' ........-,_ .. 
•, -...,: 

'1 ,d r.i rn k:= 1/2 ,oz 1p£1r\e ~alco'.hol 
which is approximately 10 oz 5% beer = 4 oz I 2% wine= 1 oz 100 proof liquor 

A mc,-~.,~c fwm Pl LL1\RS 
with Akuh,,[ & Drug E,!uc·atilln 111 L.1 h,rtLm~-Stu,!.:nt Cc·nrc-r l'nh·a~it,· ,,f '.\:urrc !lame (2 l 9) 6> l-79,l) http://,Y\\W.n,l.l"llu/ ·ldru~ 


Enjoy dining out in a big way with juicy Chicago style steaks in hassle-free down­town South Bend. Pull up a chair to a tender filet, an extra thick t-bone, or our specialty, 12 oz. of USDA prime New York strip steak. Lighter options, too. 


222 S Michigan, South Bend 219-234-5200 
page 9 


Sophomores & Juniors! $CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE NOW! AF ROTC -Producing Leaders for the Air Force and Building better citizens for America Non-competitive Scholarships -$17,480 annually, are available for select majors for sophomores and for ALL juniors! Don't waste a moment! Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu  
Want event coverage? Contact The Observer's News department at least one week prior to the event. 1-5323  


PETER RICHAROSON!The Observer 
Jessica Brookshire (left), wellness coordinator for Notre Dame's department of human resources, works with John 
Osborn, a member of the University's First Aid Team and Student Wellness Advisory Board, to promote local blood dona­tions. Their efforts have become increasingly important in recent months as the national blood supply dwindles. 

day. get in anywhere," said John
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Blood levels at the Central Osborn, a University senior who 
News Writer 

Blood Bank (CBB) of South Bend works with the First Aid Services 
When blood supplies in South this summer were at 60 percent Team and the Student Wellness Bend reach critically low levels, of optimum capacity. and the Advisory Board to publicize the the South Bend Medical CBH was unsuccessful in getting drives. Foundation often turns to Notre the blood it needed from Mobile Without the recent blood drive Dame students for help. Blood Drives. Faced with a short­at Notre Dame, hospitals may 
"They Juve coming here. It's age over the three-day Labor Day have had to cancel elective surg­one stop, and they get quite a lot weekend, Notre Dame sponsored eries because the Red Cross and of blood," said Jessica a special blood drive to increase the National Blood Exchange, Brookshire, wellness coordinator the blood levels. two organizations from which the in l\otre Dame's department of "The blood bank was nearly CBB is usually able to purchase human resources. empty. They needed a drive from blood, are also experiencing 
Every year there arc Lwo regu­us before the long three-day extreme shortages. larly scheduled blood drives at weekend. A nurse said that if The next drive will take place Notre Dame. Each last two days they weren't able to get in here, at the Rolls Sports Center on Oct. and collects about 35 pints per they wouldn't have been able to 12-13 from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. 

Ait~xa zs9~soso
~QE>~ Announces the Follow.ing Introductory Offers Of... 
~ fio¾OFFI 1$261 rs59I 1$681 1$69,
I Aveda I I Cut & I I rg1r,. C'lll '-S1)·1o I I Penn, Cut I I Hilitts & I 
L !:~ ..J L ~~;!! .J C:!':e!!J L ~~e..J ~0!!!ty~ 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do out best to merit your confidencd and patronage. 
· We hope to see you soon. 
NoT VALID FOR SPIRAL PERMS, LONG OR TINTED HAIH ADD $ro, No OTHEH DISCOUNTS APPLY. OPEN SOME EVENINGS. ATHIA SALON RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REFUSE SEHVICE TO ANY CLIENT WHOSE HAIR CONDITION IS UNSUITABLE. 
Valid with the Following Stylists Only: Sarah, Vicki, & Connie -NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must Be Presented To Receptionist Before Services Arc Preformed (Certain Restrictions Apply) I N. Ironwood Dr. Offer Ex ires 10-10-2000 
~· ------·----­
page lO The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 21, 2000 
ND students' donations boost local blood levels 
Thursday, September 21 

7:00 p.m. Women's Volleyball, Loyola Marymount vs. ND, Joyce Center Arena 
7:30 p.m "First Things First:How to Get Started Writing a College Essay", Writing Workshop, 119 O'Shaughnessy 
8:30 
p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 


8:30 
p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 


9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, Lafortune Student Center Huddle 

l 0:30 p.m. ''Road Trip: DeBartolo 101 */ ''The Uu'ard ofOz andDark Side ofthe Moon=Dark Side ofthe Rainbow". RM 155 
Friday, September 22 

5:00 p.m. Cross Country Meet: National Catholic Invitational. Burke Memorial Golf Course 
6:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, 'Time Regained: Snite Museum* 

7:00 
p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 


7:00 
p.m. Women's Volleyball: Wyoming vs. ND, Joyce Center Arena 


7:30 p.m. Men's Soccer: Steon Hall vs. ND, Alumni Field 
e·'., 

7:30 p.m. Flipside Hayride and Camp Fire (Depart from Hesburgh Library Circle)* ; ei, 1 
8:00 p.m. ''Road Trip: DeBartolo l01 */ "The WJZard ofOz andDark Side ofthe Moon=Dark Side of the Rainbow: RM 155* · ·•·· ·· 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ..Time Regained', Snite Museum* 

10:30 p.m. ''Road Trip: DeBartolo l 01 */ "The WJZard ofOz andDark Side ofthe Moon=Dark Side of the Rainbow". RM 155 
Saturday, September 23 
6:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Time Regained: Snite Museum* 

7:00 p.m. Women's Volleyball: Colorado State vs. ND. Joyce Center Arena 
8:00 p.m. ''Road Trip: DeBartolo 101 */ "The Wizard ofOz andDark Side ofthe Moon=DarkSide of the Rainbow", RM 155 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m.-Midnight Club Karaoke. open karaoke night, Alumni-Senior Club 

9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, u Time Regainecf, Snite Museum* l 0:30 p.m ''Road Trip: DeBartolo 101 */ "The Wizard ofOz andDark Side of the Moon=Dark Side of the Rainbow". RM 155 *Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students This calendar is compiled by the Student Activities Office. Programs are subject to change without notice. For up to date info check out the ND calendar, Today@ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 631-7308. To add an event to further calendars, please send the details about the activity to sao@nd.edu. 
--------. 
Thursday, September 21, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
PHILIPPINES 

French TV journalists escape Muslim rebels 

Associated Press 
MANILA 

Free after 2 1/2 months in captivity. two French journalists smiled as they told a news conference Wednesday ho'vv they evaded their Muslim r£'bel captors in the darkness and then hid overnight in the jungles of a remote island in the southern Philippines. 
The talc of Jean-Jacques Le Garrec and lfoland Madura and how they camr to flag down a military truck and be rescued was the first word from any of the 19 hostages held by Abu Sayyaf rebels. The rebels have been on the run with their rnptives since Saturday, when the Philippine government launched a massive military assault on Jolo Island. The other 17 people are still believed to be held. 
The two men. of France-2 television, described how they took advantage of dark­ness Tuesday night to bolt from the rebel group as it was rushing to cross a road. 
"We hid for some minutes, and after that we ran on the road," Le Garrec said. "We spent the night hiding in the jungle in case they would be looking around for us." 
At dawn, he said, they flagged down a mili-

We didn't become Fortune$ magazine's America's Most Admired Company-* by accepting the status quo. We got there by hiring and training graduates with the confidence and courage to think in innovative and revolutionary ways. 
No other corporation can match the diversity ofoppor­tunities at GE. Because we have small company attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, and never leave GE. 
We're a leader in every business we compete in, and we're looking for leaders like Ayako who will take us even further. Start your career by visiting our website now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Come team about GE's entry level training programs for business majors at the 
Business Career Forum 
September 21st Mendoza College of Business 
6:00-8:30 PM 
~ 

Note: Forum held on the 
22ndfrom 9:30-3:30. 
Learn about us at , · 

www.gecareers.com 


We bring good things to life. 
tary truck on the road and were taken to a military camp. 
Philippine officials had initially said that the military rescued the two hostages after a clash with thfl rnbels. 
Both of the former hostages smiled and appeared well as they spoke to reporters at the presidential palace in Manila, where they were flown from Jolo. Abu Sayyaf had taken them hostage after the p'air came to Jolo to interview other hostages. 
"It's been 2 1/2 long months for us, but we feel very good," Le Garrec said. 
The separatist Abu Sayyaf have kidnapped scores of people since March, Most have been released, with Libya and Malaysia reportedly paying more than $15 million for 19 foreign­ers. After five months of negotiations, President Joseph Estrada decided to attack the rebels last weekend, a decision that has been widely supported by Filipinos. 
Heversing earlier comments, Estrada said Wednesday he would order a halt to the assault on Jolo if the other hostages are freed. 
Estrada also said an American hostage., Jeffrey Schilling, had been spotted and that troops hoped to rescue him later Wednesday. 
The rebels also are holding three 
Malaysians, a Filipino kidnapped from a Malaysian diving resort in April, and 12 Filipino Christian evangelists, 
The rebels had earlier threatened to attack southern cities and behead Schilling, of Oakland, Calif., to retaliate for the military assault. 
Schilling, who converted to Islam in 1994. visited an Abu Sayyaf camp with his wife on Aug. 28 and was reportedly abducted because of an argum(rnt over religion with the rebels. His wife was not seized. 
Early Wednesday, a bomb exploded on a passenger ferry shortly after it arrived at rniarby Zamboanga city, killing at least one person and injuring six others. two critically, officials said. The military said it suspects Muslim rebels were responsi­ble. 
Military officials said the bomber appar­ently posed as a porter and boarded the ferry after it docked at Zamboanga. The man was killed in the explosion, Col. Jovenal Narcise said. 
Seven rebels have been killed and 20 captured in the five days of fighting, while six government troops were wounded, military officials said. 
They said the rebels were laying land mines as they fled. One group in a speed­boat was stopped as it attempted to flee from Jolo, they said. 
eF'tghtinglrish.com' 
The Marketplace 
((<~ 

CLICKRADIO 
Don't listen. Choose, 

Paid Internships 
for college students to promote ClickRadio on and around campus. Passion for music, marketing & cool technology necessary. 
Send resume to interns@clickradio.com 
WWW,CLICKRRDIO,COm 

GE Aircraft Engines• GE Appliances• GE Capital Services• GE Corporate Research and Development• GE Industrial Systems 
Cl 2000 C11ckRad10·"' Inc

GE Global eXchange Services• GE Lighting • GE Medical Systems • GE Plastics • GE Power Systems• GE Supply• GE Transportation Systems • NBC '2121/00 
page 12 Ihe Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 2 I, 2000 
Clinton Whitewater probe ends 
Asso,iatcd Press 
\\'/\SIIINCTON 

l'rospcutors ro11clud11d \l\ndrwsday tlwrP is "insuffi­ri<'nt" Pvic!Pnrl' that l'rt,sic!Pnt Clinton or his wilii rommiltc\d a crime in W h i 1 t' ­w a 1 n r , bringing tlw six-year investiga­tion to an a11ti(:limar­lic Pnd !'our months lrnl'orP llw p r n s icl t' 11 l l1•avns of1icP. 
Pn•sid1•ntial aid(is brPatlwd a sigh of n·li!d" that lnd(·pt'mlnnt Co u n s P I HobI' rt Bay's bus i ­nnsslikP statl'nHmt containnd no harsh languagP _that could caus<' trouble i11 Hillary Hodham Clinton's campaign to win a Senate seat from Nnw York. 
Hay's six-pagi· statenrnnt dis­sipatPcl a cloud that hed1•vi1Pd thn Clintons since the I9CJ2 dec­tion campaign and that m,ulP Clinton tho most inv<'stigat1,d pr(\Sid,rnt since Hichard .\1. Nixon, who rnsig111\d rathnr than confront impnacl11rnmt and rPmoval l'rom ol'lil'P. 
'Tm just glad that this is linal­lv ovPr." Mrs. Clinton said, riuPstioning why so much mom'y was spent. The presidPnl ignon~d a question about Whitewater as hn stroller! through tlrn Whit<' !louse Hose c;arclPn with Italian Prinrn Ministnr (;iuliano Amato. 

Hay has orw major pi(~cc of' unfinished busi1wss in tlw rncord $52 million indqmndent co1111sPI investigation -a deci­sion wlwtlwr to indict tlw prnsi­r!Pn t allPr hn leav1\S ortice for his conduct in tlrn Monica I .!'Winsky scandal. A grand jury was irnpannlrd in July in Washington to lrnlp makP the decision. 
It was tlw sanw inrl11p<'ndrmt counsel ol'!ice undrr Hay's pn!­rfoccssor. Kc111l!'tl1 Starr. that f'ii·sl cataptJltPcl the Lewinsky scandal onto the l'ront pages unrl spurrnd Clinton's impnach­nrnnt and SPnato trial. wlrnrP lw was acquitted. 
Hay said his of'ficl' investigat­ed al least srwrn sPparatn crim­inal allegations involving thn prosirlHnt or his wifo in Whitewat.nr. 
"This office deh~rmined that tlw evidence was insullicient to prove to a jury bPyond a rPa­sonabl11 doubt that either l'rnsidont Clinton or Mrs. Clinton knowingly participated in any erirninal conduct." Hay 
said. 
I low1wnr, the prosecutor cited "delays in obtaining relcv1rnt nvidnnce" -including the rnfusal of' Whitewater real nstate partIrnr Susan McDougal to tPsti['y, "tlw l'ailurn by the White llousn" to produce Mrs. Clinton's law firm billing records until 1996 and Inga] challenges to turning over White llouse lawyPrs' notes of conV(!rsations with Mrs. Clinton. 
Tlw White House was low-key 
in its responsP. 
"HobNt Hay is now the lal!\St investigator to l'ompletP an 

examination of tlw transactions rnlatPd to Whitewater DPvelopment Co. and co1H·.Judn that tlrnre am no grounds l'or Inga! action." Whit<' llousn press secretary Joe Lockhart said. 
Lockhart rpjoct('(I Hay's com­plaints or White Ilouse delays. "We just don't lrnlicvc that thorn's m(•rit to any or those suggestions." hn said. 
Mrs. Clinton told a nrnnting in Albany, N.Y., of' state nwmbcrs of Tho J\ssncintcd l'mss that "'I think ... most New Yorknrs and Americans ... mad1'. up thnir minds a long limn ago about" Whitewater. 
"l think that taxpayers havo a right to ask why was all this money spnnt, nspncially sinCf\ ... the conclusions wnrn readily availablfl five ynars ago," slrn addPd. 
Thn Clintons' legal ddense fund has raised $8 million ov11r 2 l/2 yPars. The f'und says tlw Clintons still owe about $4 mil­lion in legal fees. 
Later. in an interview on "Tim News!Iour with Jim Lehror" l{ay said he announced his find-· ings now to rernoH1 "any linger­ing cloud that would hov(ir !iver the first lady's campaign, or over the electoral process as wn move now closer to November." 
Hay's announcPment was in sharp contrast to the bitt11rncss the investigation m1gnndnrnd in Washington and across America for most of' Clinton's presidency as Democratic clef'enclers clashed with B.epublican oppo­rwnts over tlw merits ol' the allngations. 
Study: Minimum Wage can't pay rent 
cent of their gross inconw on 
As.,ociatcd Press 

housing. Using that stan­dard, no minimum-wag,~
WASIIINGTON 

earner on a 40-hour week 
Employc\eS earning thn fed­can afford an avcirage rent in 

eral minimum wage over a 

any county, the coalition 
40-hour week cannot afford 

said. 
what Urn l'nd('ral governm!'nt 
Marin, San Francisco and 
considers a "modest" two­
San Matno 
bed r o o rn 
cou11tins, 
apartment in 

"Rents continue to a II in 
any county, California, 

according to increase dramatically, 
tied for the a study while the minimum wage lnast­rflleased 
af'f'ordable

has not."
Wednesday. county, Federal 
with a JI O U S i II g Andrew Cuomo worker Ser:n1tary 
U.S. Housing Secretary net>ding to 
Andrew Cuomo said thn rnport by the National Low Income !lousing Coalition. an advocacy group that l'avors raising tlw mini­m um wage, demonstrates the flip sido of the booming economy. 
''Rents continue to incrcase dramatically, while the mini­mum wage has not," he said. 

The study used tho Department of Housing and Urban Development's defini­tion of "fair market rnnt" to determine the hourly wagn needed to pay for an average apartment in each state. county and metropolitan area. 
The fednral minimum wage is $5.15 an hour. IIUD says people should not spend morn than 30 per-
c a r n 

$2 8 . 0 (i f'o r an a vn ragci a pa rtm on t. Nantucket County, Mass .. was next ($25.54). followed liy Santa Clara County, Calif'., ($25.15). Barbour County, Ala., was rankod most affordable ($6.73). 
Nnw Jersoy was rankncl the least-affordabln statn, with worknrs having to narn $16.88 pnr hour to pay for an average apartment, th11 study l'ou nd. 
Washington, l>.C., was rrnxt ($1 (i.60), followed by Ilawaii ($1 (>.52). Massachusntts, ($1(>.43) and N11w York ($1(>.()4). 
Excluding thn s1df­employed, tlw average U.S. workc1r narns $1 (>. I 7 an hour, according to th<' Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
What you need to know about Investment Banking  
#1 rank in /PO aftermarket performance with a 381% returnDAI #1 rank in combined /PO and Follow-on aftermarket performance with a 248% returnAAUSCHER Raised over $13.2 Billion in Capital in 1999 WESSELS Completed a record high 101 domestic equity offerings in 1999 EQUITY CAPITAL A Managing Underwriter on 4 ofthe top 5 IPOs front 1999 and the first halfof2000MARKETS Top 5 Petforming IPOs Rank Company Return 1 Brocade Communications Systems 3763% 2 Rooback Networks 3015% 3 Juniper Networks 2470% 4 TIBCO Software 2045% 5 Ariba, Inc_ 1605% Source: CcmmScan EquiDesk (I) Top 5 IPOs in I 999 and first halfof 2000 •• measured by % appreciation from IPO to 6/30/00. Dain Rauscher Wessels will be at the Notre Dame Career Fair on September 21 from 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM and September 22 from 10 AM to 3 PM Meet with Notre Dame graduates Ed Lagerstrom (MBA), Niall Cannon, Mike Monroe and other Investment Bankers from Dain Rauscher Wessels Austin-Bosto" Dallas Houstsn Menlo ~rk Minneapolis New York-Paris San ltrancisce Seattl.Av .. , , .. ...  

Thursday, September 21, 2000 The Ohserver . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 13 
Clinton: blacks should back Gore 
Associated Press 
WASHT'.'JGTON l)(•claring that his prPsiclPncy "set th<' table for Amnrica's 
roast," 
Pr('sidPnt Clinton madn an all-out p ; t C h Wnd1rnsday l'or blal'k vo If~ rs to turn out l'or 


:\I c;on,. Gore 
1)11ring an adclrPss lo tlw Church of' God in Christ's annual bishops rn11for­r1n 1·p, Cli11!011 l'ast Gorn and DPmoeratic running mate .lnsPph l.inbnrman as "good snr­van t.s" most likPly to guid1• th11 rountrv as h(' would. 
Clint;,n also madn a pitch for (;or<' latPr i11 tllP dav at tlw Congr!'ssinnal Ilispanir· Caucus· annual din,wr. Corl'. hims<'IL racPd back from rnmpaigning in California to addn~ss tlw aucli-1·11rP. which waitrcl paliPntly !'or thn•P hours to lwar him spr>ak I'm· about fivP minutr•s. 
If' l'!Pdnd, Con• said he would cfr,fpnd artirmativ1\ action. advo­1'.al1• a l'airnr immigration status f'or long-tnm migrant workers and ronsicfPr \1Pxico a strategi<' part1wr. "not just our 1wighbor." 
"This nl1wtion is not a n~ward !'or past performance ... Cori• said. "lt is about tlw lwlll'r, !'air­
"".• 11101'1' prospProus Anwrica Wf' ran build log!'llwr .. \,\'n mav nol all shan) a rommon 
path but as i\nwrirans W<' shan' a rommon f'ulurc." 111 halting Spanish. Clinton 
said. "El que no siPrnbrn no l<:v­anta," a 1\foxican provNb that translatos: "flo who dons not sow does not harvest. .. lie sp<·cifkally cited tlw "unbrliev­able light" with Congress that has left many ol' Hispanic nomi­m!r!s Im submitted f'or the redPr­al Iwnch hop1dPssly dPlayl1d, and suggestnd that Latino votnrs express their frustration al tho ballot box. 
"II' you want an end lo this ki11d ·or clPlay and denial. it wo11ld really help if' you had Al Core and Joe Lidrnrman and S!rnators liku Ilillnry." Clinton said. "Think of' what wn have done togethf'l', which wou Id not havP been possibln without you." 
While Clinton spoh. the NAACP unveilnd a $9 million effort lo turn out black voters, th rough issuos ads and grass­roots mobi­
lization in 12 

statr~s targnt­ed as battlP­ "/This election] is about the better, faire,; more  that should  thry hack  
ground statns for tlw prc•si­d<'ntin I ntcP  prosperous America we can build together ..  Gore think your  "if' you I was faithful  
or  congrl's­ snrvant." and  
siunal  con­ Al Gore  compared  
tPsts. Tin' NAACP said it has rq{is­ Democratic presidential candidate  turning votors Election  ont on Day  
tc1red 21,000  to  preparing  

new voters and has mobilized for a sumptuous meal. voluntf'nrs to sign up morn. "The best is still out there. 

COGIC's prnsiding bishop, /\II we havn donn is basically Chandler Owens said 400 black snt thn table !'or America's churrlws wnrt' pooling tlwir f'<!ast," Clinton said. "But rongregations in N<)W York to you've got to serve it up. You. providl' a forum f'or Ililary can't leav!l thn food in the Clinton -primarily out or loyal­rcf'rignrator and the stovo and ty to Clinton. <!X.pnct thn banqtrnt to be 
"W11 ·rl' with llrn pn1sidnn t enjoyml." 
now. wn·ro with him after this is 
· ovPr." Owens said. "A lot of the blows ho took were because he would not forsake us.... 1 told tho prcsid(rnt that he was a black man masquerading in a white body. Tho president lauglrnd. but incidentally, he lwlil'vos it." 
The bishops also made it abundantly clnar that. thPy would do whatever Clinton asked regarding support of lkmocralic candidates. "I am a card-carrying Dc~mocrat. Dyrd in thn wool," said Bishop L.T. Walker ol' Arkansas. 
,\s Clinton gave a warm-up spiel about how "we have a dncision to make" in this rlec­tion on how to kerp the econo­my strong. a mcmbor of the audience shoutrd: "Put in Al (iorn!" 
"Yes, I'm getting to that." Clinton said. lie suggested 

GOP funds hit high with $200 million 
Associated Press 
WASJIINGTON 

The Republican National Committoe smashod through the $200 million fund-raising mark and entered September with $(13 million in the bank, nstablish­ing a huge financial advantage over the D e m ­ocrats. 
The Republicans' balance at the beginning of the month was almost as much as the $67.6 million in public funds that the presidential nomi­nees each received to run their fall campaigns. 
"It is a virtual dou-bling of a campaign's advertising bud­get," former Hepublican chairman Richard Bond said Wednesday. 
Party officials said they raised $29.3 million last month, $21.5 million of that within federal limits that mean the money can be used to directly aid Republican candidates. Since Jan. 1, 1999, the Republican l\'ational Committee has raised around $210 million in all. 
While trailing the GOP in 


f'und ra1srng, the Democratic National Committee did takn in $26 million at big-ticket events in the four weeks since its national convention, including $5.1 million at a post-convention gala featur­ing 13arbra Streisand and a concort at Radio City Music Hall last week that brought in $6.5 million. 
Liko Bush, Vic<' President Al Gore has received $67.6 million for his presidential campaign, but the Democrats will have less money than the 
GOP to spend separately on 
his behalf. Party officials declined to say how much less until they release their fund-raising figures on Oct. 15. 
"We're going to have enough to be competitive, but we, unlike the Hepublicans, don't think the party that brings in the most amount of rnonoy is the party that wins the race," spokes­woman Jenny Backus said. 
At the end or June, the GOP had $53 million in the bank to $33 million for the Democrats. Of those totals, the Republicans had $21.1 million in federally limited contributions to just $9.3 million for the Democrats. 
LeP Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion, said Gore will have enough money to compote. 
presents in Technicolor: 
the music of 'P-w,,./4 f~~ 
Dark Side of the Moon 
the classic movie 
The Wizard of Oz 
~~ 1:o,edw,,, m ~~r* 
155 Debartolo $2 admission 
Thurs. September 21 10: 3 0 pm 
Fri. September 22 
8:00 & 10 · 3 0 pm 
Sat. September 23 
8:00 & 10: 3 0 pm 
*Guides will be provided. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 14 BSERYER Thursday, September 21, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
I' ( ). Ilqx (J. None I l.,me. IN 4(,5'i(, 024 ~omh Drn,ng Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46'i56 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF 1'1ikc Connolly 
MA.'IACJ,'IG EnnoR BtNNESS MA.'\JAC!R Norern l;illespit' Tim Lane. 

ASST. MANAl.IN(; ElllTOR OPERATIONS MANAGf.R Christine Kr"ly Brian Kessle, 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Ma1ti11i:ly VffWPOINT EDITOR: I .il.i H,lllghey SPORTS ED/TOil: Knry Smith ScENl' EDITOR: Amanda (;reco SAINT MAl!Y's EDITOR: Molly McVoy l'IIOTU EDITO!l: Eli1,.1bcth Lang 

AllVf.IlTISlNG MANAGER: !'.it Peters AD DESIGN MANAGFll: Chris Avil;i SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville Wtm ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner Co:-; rRoLLEH: Bob w·oods GRAPIIICS Enrron: Jose Cul'll.ir 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICF MANAGUt/GENEl!.-\L i.'>Hl ............(,3 [.7'f7l 
FAX...  ....631-6927  
ADVERTISING....... .  .................65 I -G\ltl0/8tl40  
1,b~crvt.·r(~hcfarwin.cc.nd t:dt1  
ElllT0ll IN CIIIEI  ..........................631-4~42  

MANAGING EDITOR/ASST, ME........... .. ...(,.'\ 1-4~4 l BUSINESS OHICE.. .......63 l -53 l.3 NEWS.......... .. ............................. Cd I-~J23 obsrrver.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.... .. ..............................631-5303 obscrver.vicwpoinc. l@nd.edu SronTs...................................................... 631-4543 observer.sports. ]@1ul.edu SCENE.......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu Pl!OTO..... .. ...............631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEil ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsen,er.11ded11 for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fraturcs and opinion columns, a, well as cartoons. rt·views and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SLRF TO: 
weather lor up-to-the minutt' fOrecasts 
advertise for policies and rates ofprim .ids 
archives ttl se.1rcl1 lt,r ,lftides published alicr August I<J<)l) movies/music for weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­cial ca1npus coverage 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors e1nd staff 

POLICIES· 
The Observer is the indeprndern. daily newspaper published in print and onlinc by the srndems of the Univrrsity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Ma1y's College. Fdimrial c,1ntent. including advcrrisemcms, is not govl'mcd by policies of the ,1dministration ofeid1er instit111ion. The Observer rese1ves the right tn rdc1Se advertiseme,Hs b.t.sed on crnirenc. 
The news is reported as '1Ccuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority oftl1c Editor in Chief. Managing Editor. Assistant Managing Editor and dcp,mment editors. Comrncnrarics, lcrn:rs and colwnns present the views of the authors and not ncct"ssarily those oi'Thl' ( )hscrver. 
Viewpoint space is ,wailable m all readers. The free rxprl'ssion of.ill opinion., through leuers is encouraged. 1.tttcrs 10 t!i,· Ed,tm 111ust be signed ,u1d must inclLtde t.:nntacr inform.ition. 
Q11esno11., n:gardi,,g Ohsm1er p,,/icies should be direct­


ed/() r.i!1tor II/ Cl11ef'M1kr Cim110/ly. 
DILBERT 

E 
8 
~ 
@J 
E ~ 
" 
.i lJ 
.,u 
E 
0 
t: '-' 
Cl) 
:2 
'5I 

a lot easier than marriage. 
But imagine, as I described before. five or six 20-something girls sitting around in jeans and sweats, faces glued to the computer semen, not furthering tlrnir education in anyway except to learn the manv intricacies of certain matrimonial Internet sites and possibly the psycholo­gy behind creating ideal wedding situa­tions in one·s head based solely on a whole lot of hope. It is a far cry from the bobby-socked ponytail days of yore when girls really did marry Bobby the football captain a week after high school gradua­tion. Nowadays marriages seem to come much later in life and even by the two's and three's. According to the National Center for Policy Analysis (NCAP), 14 million Americans between the ages of 25 and ::i4 have never been married. And in 1998, 56 percent of U.S. adults were married. A pretty high percentage, right? Not really, considering that it is down 12 percentage points since 1978. 
It has got to be an unconscious. undis­covered section in the female~ brain that at some point or another clicks on to weddings, then maybe shuts off after awhile and possibly (if ever) clicks back on at a later date. I'm pretty sum that this snlf-indulging wedding talk proves only to satisfy one's ego. Face it. your wedding is a day dnvotr,d to you. All eyes on you. Bridesmaids· colors, acctmt col­ors, what dish to serve, the script used on tho invitations, flowers, the church ­it is all up to you. You, as the brido, tho motlrnr of' this child called a wedding, get to choose every aspect, with some help of course, from mothors, friends and the husband-to-be. But in essence, you, as the bride, get to play God. "Pownr unto me!" you may exclaim·in a booming voice as thn first picture book of wedding cakes is set in front of you. 
J\r:conling to '/11eKnnt.com, 80 pcrrent oi' Amoricans consider marriage part or tlw "goud lifo." And this piece of the "good lif'ci" pie will cost only cost you about $19,000 -a mere pittanco com­pared to the fairy talc weddings of. celebrities we are bombarded with on television. So not only can thoughts of weddings consume every atom of our bnings, but they can also physically con­sume every aspect of our wallets. Maybe it is because I am neither married nor engaged, but I cannot fathom spending what for me right now is a year's worth of education on a huge one day party. This is not to say that I wouldn't do it. I 
just can't see myself doing it right now. 
Maybe that's because I only hawi $43.67 
in my checking account. 
A wedding represents a lot in America's culture: love, friendship, fami­ly and a really big party. And there arn worse things to which our thoughts could bn devoted. The bnst part about fantasizing about our future weddings, though, is that it is always a happy story, despite what realistic outside factors there may actually be. The pressure snems to bn on, now that my friends and I am of'licially out of our tennage years, to find that man (or woman), zip up that long white dress, pin a veil to our heads and march ourselves down the aisle. But as the group Green Day once sang, "You can't go f'orcin' somethin' if it's just not right." And marriage is not for evnryorrn. I, personally, enjoy the thought of being married and having a wedding, but not right now. 
Although I have heard of a miw wPb site that •.viii wordinate my entire wed­ding entirely on-line as long as r put clown a date and my husband-to-he's name. Thn hunt is on. 
Molly Strzelecki is a new columnist to the Viewpoint page. She is a senior h'nglish major at Saint Mary's College. Iler column will appear every other 'J'uesday. 
'J'he views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those r!f' The Observer. 

.__.._._...._............._.........,.-;;;;...r.......i,.___,, rr L-S~~-.Jl~~:::~;;.;;;;i_J 
It snuck up on us lik(1 a cat through the night. It was reinforced through print. computers, television and all other medi­ums put together. Once the words dropped from one person's lips they ran like wildlirn 
Molly
through the eyes and ears of the Strzelecki lucal population, consuming us in a wrath or ribbon. Growing Up to satin. lace and 
Be a Kid 
taffeta. W c were getting married. 
Not any time soon, mind you, but when the four ofus first logged on to the Modern Bride Web site, the gleam in all of our eyes could not for the life of us be dulled. We all wanted to get married right then ... well, not actually married per sc, but morn we all wanted to plan a wedding of our own, to have all tho attention focused on us in our long ball gowns and diamond rings, hair done in pin curls and honeymoon in Barbados. It was set. We drnamily set our sights on a last minute lipstick touch up. !luff the train. open the doors and .... ahhhh ...wedding ... me ... 
Me? Married'? Tlwre's a·thought that ... well. yes, I have thought about it, but right now I'm 21. I have always thought that being married by 24 or 25 would be ideal. What I didn't realize, however, is that tlrn age of 24. at my present state is oh my God, that's only three years a\rny. I don't evnn have a boyfriend. I don't ev(m hav(i any prnspects. l\iow, realistically, the young women and evnn young men for that matter, in my samn prndicanrnnt. could set themsnlves on a quest for a partner and make this a who!P ord(\al, bcicausc really, in my mind it is !)('coming an ordeal, but do I have the timP'! Frankly. no. At the moment I have tests to study for and ,~rrands to run, rwithcr of which f'orce me to com­promise my i11telligcncc or mnutional capacity, and both of'which arP a hell ol' 
YOU COULD TE&T THE CURRENT VERSION. 

SCOTT ADAiv1S 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards., . 
Benjamin Franklin scholar 


VIEWPOINT 
O
TIIE 

Thursday, September 21, 2000 BSERVER page 15 
POLITICAL FACE-OFF 
Saving the people by saving them money 
Giving help to those who need it the most 

Tlw 2000 pn'sirlnntial doction is onr, taxes hcwausn its inrornn is under of llw most important elections in U.S. S24,900. Bush's plan docs absolutely historv. Why? Ntw<'r in rncrnt memory nothing for them! hav(' ~(' ha;:! llw gold(!ll opportunity to lnstnad ol' a broad sweeping tax cut, 1•xt1•nd our nation's prosperity to virtual­Vice Prcsidrmt Gore has proposed $500 ly all ol' its citizpns. billion in tax cuts over the nrxt 10 ynars l>espit1· th(• stun­Jeffrey targetnd toward low and middle-income ning growth we Stuffings l'amilies -nsperially thosP with S('hool­have Sfll'n during aged childrrm and eldorly parents. The Lhe Clinton admin­big winner under the Corn tax plan is a 
College

istration. tno manv family making $'.~5,000 a y<'ar that has a pPoplP n'main on -Democrats child in day cam (a tax credit of up to 1lw out:>id1· looking $2,1(i()), u sick mother in a nursing in, \1iddlP dasc; hnm(' (a ~3,000 c.rcclitl. and a retire­1.vagPs haw bPrn stagnant l'or nearly 30 ment-savings plan (federal math of up y<•ars. Loo many working famili<~s must to $2,000). Gorn soeks LO expand the fight to c;lay abov(• the poverty !Pvel ancl carn('cl inconrn tax credit, the child 1ht• inronw gap lwt.wPPll thn rich and the care tax crndit and Ow college poor is al an all-tinw high. opportunity tax cul. while reducing 
This November we will be f'acPd with a the marriage pmrnlty and tho inher­critical docision. Do WP use our prosper­itance tax for the families that need ity to Pxtcncl a helping hand to thosP the most help, I think it is clear who nPPd lwlp tlw most'' Or do we which candiclalP is truly pro-family. rl'turn to our old ways of comt'orling tlw In addition. Gorn propos~;s setting rnmf'ortabl(•'! lf'you agrP(' WP should fix aside nearly half the projected lmd­tlw rool'whilP tlw sun is still shining and g<'t surplus to kPPp Social Security usP our prosiwrity to lw1wfit J\nwrica's solvr,nt, and to limdly start paying middlt\ ('lass and working poor, tht'n you nfT tlw national debt. Ile has pro­will bP in favor of'tlw tax plan proposPcl posed $4'.12 billion of thP budgPt sur­hv VirP l'rPsiclPnt Al Con'. plus go to shoring up Medicare and 
·I.Pt us takP a look at both thr Gon1 and providing seniors with a prescription l~ush tax plans. (;ovPrnor Hush proposPs drug benefit. Finally. in case the pro­spPnding $1.3 trillion of' tlw projPctPd jncted surplus dm\S not materialize, l'PdPral surplus on tax ruts over tlm nt\Xt Gm'e wants to SP,t aside $300 billion for 10 VPars. IIP claims, "I haw laid out a !wiping ,.,,ith unfornseen costs in tlrn plan that is going to ('ll[. thr. ratPS Oil future. Corn's plan is simply more pru­l'VPrybocly in Anwrica, a plan that is dent. ronser\'ativt' and a plan that is t·ompas­In th1; coming election we must choosP sionalP." I.Pt's just SPP how mmpassion­whetlwr to mow forward or !'all back. atP tlw Cowrnm's plan rPally is. We <·.an revnrt to the tactics of thn 
Bl•rausP Bush's tax plan is an across­Reagan and Bush administrations, tlw-board cut. tlw wc'althy Pnjoy tlw which stratifiPd the distribution of grPatPst gains. Tlw plan is a blPssing f'or wealth in thc U.S. and saddlrd our gcm­tlw vnn rich,,\ small number of afnuPnt <'ration with an enormous national debt. 1woplP ·will rP('Pivt' rnon• than half of' tlw Or WP can take the appropriat0 steps not hPnPfils. Tlw wt•althiPst 10 1wrcPnl of to squander our golden opportunity to taxpayPrs will rPcPiv1• 62 pPrr.Pnt of tlw ensure that evcrv American shares in tax rnt. By contrast. tlw bottom 60 por­our prosperity. 13ctwmm the iwo tax rPnt of' taxpayPrs will rPrPiVl' only 11 plans prrsentPd bd'orP us in this elec­p<'tTt'lll of' tlw brnelits. with thP lowest tion, tlw Gore plan is the one that makes 20 pPITPnt of' Laxpaym·s rnceiving nn surP tlrn most help goes to the people aVl'rag(• of' only $4'.1 a yPar. ! guPss it is that need it most. no surprisl' why snft-monpy from wPalthy donors has bPPn !lowing into Jeffrey Stu.flings is president 4 the tlw Bush rnmpaign at rPrnrcl lnvPls this College Democrats Cfuh. The Political pJpt·1ion . Face-(~f.T 1cilf appear euery Thursday 
.\nd think !'or a S<'('.oncl about tlw mil­until the election. lions ol' pP(1plP wlrnsl' inronws are so The uiews expressed in this column low tha1 tlwy do not pay taxPs. PirturP a are tho:w <if the author 'and not neces­family of' li>ur that do!'s not havl' to pay sarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
Correction: 

The MSPS column that appeared in Viewpoint on Sept. 20 was written by Iris Outlaw, Director of Multicultural Student Programs and Services, not Kevin Huie. The Viewpoint staff regrets the error. 
Returning tax dollars to the people 
Campaign season has already heated 15 percent and ends at $39.6 pPrcent up, With less than 50 days to go until with natter, lower rates, which range election day, one of the issues that has from 10 percent to 33 percent. Tax attracted the most attPntion i_n both the relief will come in other areas as well, national and local political spotlight is including an expansion of charitable taxes. Exactly deductions, allowing taxpayers who do what kind of tax Daniel Tyszka not itemize to deduct contributions. cut for hardwork­Robert Sina Al Gore claims that Bush's "large, ing families is fea­risky tax cut" will endanger Social sible when Social Security in America. The fact of the
College

SPcurity faces matter is this: Gore only wants Social
Republicans

impending Security surpluses put back into the bank-Social Security Fund while Bush rupt­believes that part of the national sur­cy? plus should be put back into Social 
As George W. Bush Security. The tax cut proposed by Bush clearly pointed out, the in no way takes away money from current tax burden is Social Security. 
too high. American Moving on to the proposed tax plan families pay nearly 40 that Al Gore has presented. The Gore percent of their income plan is nothing more than a complicat­
to the government in ed maze of restrictions. Gore has taxes. These historical­rocently launched a new web site ly high levels mean explaining how "real families" will ben­that American families efit from his program. One look at his pay more to the gov­mythical families, and you will see that 
ernment in taxes than the restrictions under Gore's tax cut they do for the cost of will help only a small percent of the food, clothing, shelter American population. Ironic since Gore and transportation com­has pretended to be the candidate bined. Further, the aver­ready to help "most of America." age American family must Al Gore's plan often eliminates fami­work from Jan. 1 until May lies that would be included under 
11 each year just to earn the Bush's plan (usually requiring that they amount it will pay in federal, make more money). Under Gore's plan, state and local taxes. little money will ever be returned to the 
Thnse terrifying facts -combined people and even more dollars will end with the prrcliction that over the next up in the coffers of the IRS to be spent 10 years the budget surplus will exceed for more entitlement programs that $4,6 trillion -means that hardworking promote a dependency on bigger gov­families can be provided with tax relief ernment. Further. this new spending at a time when they need it the most. Of by the federal government will not help course, this can only happen if spend­to lower interest rates -even Alan thrift bureaucrats in Washington could Greenspan has repeatedly said that. get beyoncl the idea that they can han­Greenspan has also acknowledged that dle the money of the American people the best way to remedy this situation is better than the American people them­by keeping people's money in their selves. pockets, an idea truly radical to 
The Bush plan to cut taxes rests on Democrats. the idea that Americans can and will The choice is simple. Will Americans spond their money well if given the pick candidates on the Republican side opportunity to do sci. Of course, Al Gore of the ticket like George W. Bush who and the Democrats have already believe that individuals are better able brought class warfare tactics into play. to spend their own mpney than the gov­As alwavs. the Democrats sav that the ernment? Or will Americans pick candi­Hcpuhlican's tax cut will help only tho dates like Al Gore who believe that wealthy. Yet the facts are that the cut bureaucrats in Washington can manuge will help small business, the cornPr­their money botter than they can? 1 stonP upon which our nation was don't see how it's much of a choice. founded and has flourished, 
Among the features of' the Bush plan is a doubling of the current child credit to $1,000 per child. This, of' course, stands to help lower and middle-income Arnrricans more than the wealthy, Hush's plan also simplifies the current fiw-rate lax structure. which bPgins at 
Daniel Tyszka and Robert Sina are members ofthe College Republicans Club. The Political Face-Off will appear every Thursday until the election. 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces• sarily those rlThe Obseruer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
If you want reform vote Reform 
Srn1H' 1wopl1' \1ho likt' Pal B1whana11 anrl likP 11w t'.an arrnrnplish much. II' Pat gf'ls !i or 10 pnn-Pnt of' tho agP to lw heard. If Pat gf'ls S percent of tlw vote, this \Viii things lw stands for say llrnl tlwy do not want to vol!• !'or vol!' it. will S<'nd a nwssag!' Lo tlw H1•p11blican lnadmship establish him on tho lmllot and make him a force to be him bP1'at1sP it. wiH lw a vote for Con'. Tlwy have bl'Ptt that tlwn• am so1111• who do not agrP<' with their plans reckoned with in the future. Please votr• your conscience. l'rightPt1Pd by tlw l{pp11blirn11 pa1·ty 1vhid1 says that <'l<'n f'or .\t1l('rka -that llwn• an\ issuPs that rn•f'd to be Vol<' for principle. Do11 ·1 lw srnrPcl off the the old song 1ho11gll lh1sh may not f'ulfill rill tlwir dl'mands lw is rais1•tL that at least lw's lwttrn· than -whoPvPr and PV<'ll pn•l'Prnbl(• to tlw otl11•r choi('I'_ 1IPn' is sonrnthing for you V\'hy wlwn (10 1wrcPnt or mon• do not favor China gt+ though you'rn not a big l'an hold your nose and votti. to rnnsiclt'L Indiana will in all probabilit~· ,H-rm·di11g tu all ling spt·c·ial trl'at11w11L and getting into tlw WTO an' tlw Your prot,~sl vote will send a mr•ssagP. Explon' 1m1j1,rti1111s go to !lush, GOP l!'ackrsjoining with Clinton and tlw S,•nntn Buchanan's stand on tlw issups and considPr 1.·oting for 
It is so solidly in lh1sh's camp that c;ol'(' will nut rnm­llmnol'rnts to providP China this spPcial ravor'? Wh\'n the him -tho most prolil'P canclidatl' running. JHtign IH't'P Wt",>' ltHTPl'trlly and Bush 1,·ill nol llhf' his linw majoriLy or Anwrira11s do not fornr our im,olwment in or illOil('\' II IH'JJ Ill' i:,, air'('adv assun·d (Jr tlw Olltf'Ollll'. In f'on·ign rivil 1.1ars why an' ,ill th<' majot· ligurl's for it? Paul Rem:! ;1 srP11,1t:io lik1• thi.; I propos;, tlrnt a \ otP l'or Bttdrn1111n \\'!' IH't'd a st•parnt.l' indPp1•nd1•nt 1·oir,, from llw l~on \\.':1\'nt. Ind. \\ill 1H1t sPriousl:,· dmnngP llush's win11ing tlw statP, But it lh111101T,1ti1·-l{ppublirn11 monopol:,. WP tlPPd somn ltw<'r-Sqltl'lllht•f J 1) . .:'.000 

page I(1 Thursday, September 21, 2000 
MOVIE COLUMN 
Candidates wrong in attacking Hollywood 
111 this ('IP1·tio11 \'«'ar. in IVhil'h up 011 a 1-'Pd1•ral Trad1· 111wk. "Th1•rp is a 110 OIH' issuP has galvanizNI 11w ( :0111 mission rt•port rl1lpasPd 011 problnm with tlH' nalion and its politi.. ians. SPpt. I l, ll'hirh atTus1·d somP produd tiH'Y mar­llollvwo11d has sudd1•11lv lllOlion pil'tUl'I' ('lllllf)H!lil'S of k1•t, 110 mall<'r how PllH:rgPd as tlw surrog;;l.t• polit­in1Pn1ionally markl•ling H-rnt­tlwy markl't it.". iral whip-ing moviPs to kids as young as WhilP ping ho~· f'or 12. (i()l"I' has prnmis1~d ··to du H1•ptdilil:a11s loVP lw1'1 prPsi-Matt Caccamo snnwthing about this" if' <'ll'c1Pd to point to tlw dt•ntial this l'all. DPmmTats' ca111paig11s. Tlw prnblPrn lwrP is that tilt> hypocrisy. Lhny 
OvPr tlw .\,·ene .\!ol'ie ll1•m11nalit' !'arty is tr,•ading liaV<' SOllll' past Lw11 Critic dangProus watPr. During this Pxplaining 111 do WP1•ks, hoth £1lp1•tio11 cydP. LIH• l)pmoc1·ats thPmsnlvns. For BPpuhl ir,111s havP rnisPd rnorl' than $13.(, <•xampl1•, how do and million dollars from individuals movins nnd music Il1•1110tTals ha 1·1• ra ikd againsl and rompanil's n•lati>d lo tlw lw,·p mon! to do th(' s1•.\, violt·1H·1· and profanity P11ll'l'Lai11m1•11t industry. It is 110 with violl'nn• in in .\1111•rirn·s 111usir. \'id1•0 and SPl'l'l't thal l'rPsid1•nl Clinton's ,1\nwrica than film indusll'iPs. To Ill' morP most ardPnl support1•rs arP in guns'? That's an ps;a('t, l'Vt•r sitH'<' Virl'-I lollywood. This s111ad..s of in!.Pl'('Sling Qlll\S­1'r(•sid1•11t .\I Cori• l'lws1• hyporrisy, a11d tlw lkpuh!i..ans tion, 0111• Lht>y most SPnator ,losPplt l.i1•lwrma11 as havP nol lwsitalPd to point it lik<>lv won't lourh his running matn in mid­Olli. in tl1is or any otlwr ,1\ugusl, tlw 1·ulturP of' HqHlblirnn national chair­PIPction. 1lollywood has bPl'll brought man .Jim Nicholson q111•stio1wd Without a doubt. bark into tlw politirnl spotlight. tlw VirP l'rPsidPnl's commit­tlrn issw' of' 
As a Sl'llH!or for mon• than a nwnt lo n•gulating I lollywood I lollvwood 's dPrarlP. i\lr l.iPlwrman has last Vvl'Pk afll'r llw Corl' cam­invo.lvPmnnt in madl' a ri·1watPd targPl of tlw paign raisPd $(i:i million dol­American's "dP!P­PntPr!ninnwnt industrv. In his lars in a onP-night ('Oll<'Prl at riorating moral hook n•lPasPd 1•arliPr this yPar, "Hadio City l'vlusir Ila!!: "But fiber" will not lw "In l'rais1• of' l'uhlil' l.if'i•." with l\'h11m d1H's 111• stand s11lvPd by this Pl<•r­l.iPlwrnwn says "!Ila! mtwh of' tonight: tlw pan•nls whosP tion-yPar's fingnr our n1lt ttrl' has b1·1·01111• toxi1·. young kids arl' having their pointing. Blaming that our standards uf' dl'<'l'IH'Y minds pollullid and llwir souls moviPs, musir and and civility an• !wing signifi-· r01-rupt<•d by l lollywood. or lhn videos ganrns f'or cantly (•1·od1•d" by· l lolly\vood·s powerful I lollywood PlitP who tlw dP1•1wr prob­vahws. put tlw monpy in his porkPt?" lPms in Am<'rican 
Whill' tl11• SPnator has That's a good qu1•stion. but sociPty is a curious l'ol"USl'd mainly 011 tlw film tlw BPpublieans arPri't alt.o­<'Op-out that won't industry in his altal'ks. Llw Vici' gPLlwr innoci'nl 011 this issue• di<' al'tPr l'rl·sid1:11t's \Vif'P, Tippl'r (;11rP. Pitlwr. Thpir rnndidal1i, Nov1'mb1•r. has madP thP music industry (;ovPrrwr (;Porgl' \-\'. Bush, and Tlw issue ol' !IH• IJuU of l1<•r l'riticism. Shi· his running mat<'. Hil'liard l lollywood's \\'HS otlf' ol' tlw !Padi11g advo­ClH•111•y, havl' also bt>Pll nitiral d1•c,;ying cultu1·1• ca1ns f'or \\'ar11i11g lalwls on of' thl' l'tl(Prtainnwnt industrv. takPs plan• in tl11• ,·11111pal't disl's and t;qws t.hal \\'hilP not rnising tll'arly as ' c1J11t1\xt of' a widnr \.\'Pl'<' instill!ll'd in th1• latP-llllH'h morwv f'rom l lollywood argunwnt among 1<)80s inl<•r1·sts. tl1.Py haw taknn tlwir mostly oldnr 
(;orP. loo, has joi1wd in tll(' fair shan•: $8.fi million. Amerirans that latPst round ol' 1lollvwood criti­Tlw H<'publirnns. at timPs, vil'w the first half of' this centu­you're on tlw right track. P11liticians. Pl<'rtion ynar or cism by focusing th;, se<'lll to be going a stnp ru rtlwr ry through rosn-colorl'd glass­Tim problnm is that this not. 1ie11d to f'ol'us on this prob­llPmo!Tals' atta1·ks 011 lhP wav than tlw Dcmorrats with thdr es. They Sl!e a timl' when slanted, unn1alistk view of tlw l()m of' PnforcPnrnnt. to makP in which tlw lilm industry mai·­rriticism or· tlw cntertainnwnt cvPrything was pPrfoct; no orw past has unfairly placPd blanw sum that ;\nrnrica's d1ildrnn kPLs thPir i111-rPasi11gly vi;iltmt industry. As Clw1wy's wifo, fought. no orw sworn, no 0111! on llollywood. Wlwn was tlrn don't SCP tlH' wrong movies. produ('t. LynnP Clrnrwy, cxpr<'ssPd al a PVl\11 dabbled with drugs. II' last tim<' you lrnard somPonP While it might Ill' politirnlly 
Tlw (;orp campaign pi<·k1\d Congrnssional !waring last you've SPl'll "l'leasantvillt\," blamP tho continuance of sng­11xpmlinnt for (;ore and Bush to rngation in tlw first half' of this criticizl' tlw artists in century on films with 110111•-too­llollywood, it makPs much subtle racial undnrto1ws likP morn sPnSI' to crark down on "Corm With the Wind?" Or how th11 busincss sid11 of' tlw 11nt<'r­about blaming g<'ndnr irwquali­tainrnent industry. Tlw gowrn­ty on blatantly snxist rn11vics nwnt should closPly monitor like the JamPs B,rnd serios, movin tlH'at11rs' compliatH'P whirh treat wonrnn as nwro with regulations snt down sexual objocts? Tlw short decades ago. lf' a tlwat.nr is answer is nrwer. But, of' course, caught lntting kids into tlw tliern wcro no prob!Pms :iO or next QtH'ntin Tarantino film, 1)v1rn :rn ynars ago. Lihly story. thny should IH' !wavily li1wd: if 
Tim solution to prt•vn11t.ing this persists, tlwy should lw young kids from sening movies rlosPCl down. II ·s as sim pl«' as not moant l'or tlwm is alrPady that. in place. It's thn self-adminis­l{oth political parti1is would tnrNI MPA;\ ratings syst.1•111. lwrrn!it gr<'ally from this · which too many p<'opi<' hav<' approach IJl'raus<' any pffort to giv<'n up on in rnc<'nt ynars. rngulato or 1'.Pnsor l.lw lilm or Tlw truth is that thP film indus­music industry would sl'I. 11rT try has bcPII morP than honnst First AnwndmPnt. alarm lwlls about rating itsnll'. H,trnly d11 in llw American c11nsci1111cn. you watc.h a moviP and r.om­CPnsorship has 1wv,·r lwnn a rnPnt on it.s rating !Jl'ing too popular isstH' among ;\mPrican low. votnrs. 
The problPlll with tlw ratings This, r1H1p!Pd with tlw vast systt·m !ins at !Ill' doorstl•ps 111' a1111111nt of' powl'r and 1111111Py Anwrica's movin llrnat1•rs. As wil-idPd by l lollywood intPr­W<' all know, most. m11vi1• thP­Psts. should rnnvinr.1· politi­atPrs ari• lax in tlwir i>nf'orc11-l'ians of tlw rwPd to !'ind a new nwnt. of' tlw rules ba<'king tlw approach to this old dPhaf<'. ratings. Most Anrnricans ('an · count 011 one\ hand tlH~ numbnr The opinions c·xpressed in of times th11y Wl'r<'n't allowPd this colwnn are those 1d' the 


Democratic presidential candidate Vice President Al Gore ( center) and his wife Tipper (on his into a movie as children author and not nece.'isarily b1!c1wsn it was rat11d H. those of The Ohseruer. 
right) attend a Democratic National Committee fund-raiser at Radio City Music Hall in New York. 

Thumby, September 21, 2000 page 17 
MOVIE COLUMN 
A 'History' lesson not to be missed 
Forceful 'American History X' comments on_ racial hatred 
It is an lltH'XPlain<'d plw110111P­11011 th a { SO!ll P or tlw wnrsl 1110vics b1•co11H· audi,•m·c hils. and smm· ol' llw most inlltwntial rnm·ips go u11r1•rn~1izPd for yPars a11d sonw­ti11ws 1"11n•v-
Jude Seymour

1·r. ··;\nwrirnn l listorv \.." a 
.'·ice,w 1\.lm•iP

l<J<JK ;Irama 
Criti"

dil'<'f'[Pd by Tony hay,·. 
t"Olll(lllls 
11u~ssngPs that r<'fJt'Ps1•11t somP Ill' tilt' most thought olll and pro­grPssivP idl'ilS ab11111 wv1-rsing ra!·ism. II. 11111cl1• (1.7 million dol­lars. whid1 h•ll its prodw·tion 
rnrnpany. r\i'\\' U1w Ci1wma. holding tlw bag-011 tlw IO million dollar budg<'l. Sinn• rnm·iq:(rn·rs fail<·d to <'mbrarP "i\nwrican I listorv X." its availability on vidPo (am! ti1is urtic!P) will ho1j1,ru1Iy inspin· som1•i,1w to rnnl it and sharr• IIH• moviP's !lH'ssagl' with tlwir fri1•nrls. 
".-\nwricm1 1fistorv X" stars hlwarcl \orton ("Fight Club." "KP<'ping tlw Faith") and 1-:clvvard hll'long l"T1•rmi11ator 2." "lktroil H,wk City"I as brntlwrs living in \ 1•t1il'P lkad1. Calif'. '.'1/orton·s rlrnnt('l<'r. l)pn•k Vimard. lms !itl!Pn illlo IIH· s1•Pdv tmdPrlwllv ol' llw !own's 1Yhil<' p1.111·1•r organfza­Liun. lt•ad lw Canwrnn Alr•xandPr {Stal'y KPac:hL 
l>PrPk has bt·1·oml' tlw inspira­tion li,r 11ia1w bon•d and Pasilv inllw•ncPd 11:hitPs looking to · blanw anyrnw for tlwir lo,wr­middll' 1·i1L,;s wo<'s. 1I<' bP1·om1•s tlw mouthpiPrP !i,r Canwron. and lw is qui!·kly idolizPd. 
lt is during tlw movi!'S op1•ning s1•qw•111·" that tlw progrl'ssion or ll<•n•k's liatn•d is mapp<'d out: a car-jacking by two black nwn 11,ads lkn•k to rnmmi\ douhlc­homiric!P and subsc>qw•ntjail 
Lim<'. 
Tlw rPst of'tlw rnoviP altPrnatPs l)('[\\'P<'n !)prpk's rt'IPas1· f'rom prison (and subs<'qw•nt rPi11tP1-,'ra­tio11 into his f'amilyl and a sPriPs ol' llashbacks lhat r•xplain Dl'rt>k's path to ra<"ism. 
ll is up l.o tlw r<'li,rnwcl DPr<'k to n'Pslablish himsPlf' as an inllu­l'tH·1• in his brotlwr Danny's Iii,,. 
and Lo savP him f'rom 1·011tinui1Jg Llw lrgacy of'hatP that DPrnk hirn­sdl'sti.rtf'Cl l)(•n•k 111w,I ('OllH' in rnnllict. with his old IPadP1·. his old l'riPnds and. most importalltly, his old idnals. to n•s1·rn• Dannv f'rnm Llw VPni1·p lkach whit(' p;,wrr group lll' hdpPd ('f'('ah·. 
It is through striking visual Px,unpl<'s that l)pr<'k's l'H('ism is displ,tyPd. 
!)p1·pk 11rgani:tl's tlw ransacking of a hon·an ow1wrl si;11·p lwcausn 11(' lwli1•vrs tlw words that haV<' b1•1•n liwc·(•-f'<•d to him ilv :\lPXiilld('I'. . 
'1 \w srnrit'sl part is that. lisl<\ll­ing to his SJJl'Pch bf'lcm• tlw mili­tants d<•strov tlw com·rn1iP11cr mart. his sp11ech sounds almost logirnl. l>Pn'k rnmarks. "Tlw statP spnnt thrn(' billion dollars last yPar on Sl'rvil'.1•s for thosn p!~oplP who bad no rig-hL to bP lwrn in tlw first plac<'. This is about your lif'P and mirn•. It's about d<•cPnt hard­mirking J\merirnns foiling into th<· cracks and g(•lting tlw shaft lwn1usP tlwir govt•rnnwnl rarns morP about tlw ('onstitutional rights ol' a bunch of 1wopl1• who an•n't !'\Pll !'iliz1•11s in this c·m1n­try. <hi tlw statu<' ol'lil)('rtv ii savs: '(;iVI' me· your Lin•d, your liungry, your poor.' \Vl'II. it's ,\nwric.ans who ar<' tin'd and hungry and poor. And I say. until you takP can• ol'Lhat. dos!' llw book." 
Thl'r<' is !HlC' gn•at flaw in this tirade·. hmv<!Vl'r. \VhatPV<'r race. whal<•v<•r nationality. our 1·ountry n·pms(•nts opportunity. Thal opportunity is <;xhibiwd only wlwn all nt('('S work togi•tlwr for a rnmmon pros1writy. It is not thn blacks or tlw K01·pans that an' Llw \\'hitc-s' ('JH'mies, as DPrPk has stated. Just becaus1• l)prpk's h1ropean grandl'atlwrs nune owr and 1•slablislwd land lwrn. which subs<'qtl<'ntly guarantPPcl t'itizPnship to him upon birth, dot's not giw l)pn•k or any of his whitP pmVl'r frinmls an nxcus!' to excfudP pnoplP. 
This 1ww message is rnprnsnnt­Pcl in a quotp from ,\braham l.inr.0\11, which. incidt•ntally, r<'p­rnsents Danny's com•prsion al tlw C'onclusion 1ir"t!w movi(': "\VP arn not 1;11PmiPs. but 1'1·i<>nds. WP must nol bP nnc•mil's. Though passion mav haw slrainml il must llOl bn;ak our bonds of alfoction. Tlw myst.ic chords or nwmory, stretch­ing l'rom pvcry ba1tJP!i1•ld und patriot gra,'<' tn Pwry li\'ing heart am~ !warthstonn all owr 1.his broad land. will wt swPll t.he clw­rus ol' thi: Cnicm: when again t.oudwd. as surnly tlwy will b,1, by t.lw lwttc>r angPls or our naLurn " 
In prison. 1)1•rnk al first rnsolvns to adlwrP to hi"i '\vhilP power" ideals. It is only allrn· lkn:k finds himsPlf' at his lownst posit.ion in Iii\• that lw clrriclPs to makP rhallg<\S. 
Hapml nnd ht1miliat1,cl, DPrPk is laid up in a hospital. lIr• rncPives 11 vL-.it f'rnm one of his high school t!mchers. This tnaclmr, Sweeney, a blal'k rnan, asks him tlw ques­tion that changns his lili•: "llas anything you·v,. done madn your life• bPttm·?'' 
DerPk rnalizes in those crucial monrnnts that his lifo has been rqmisnntr,d so rar by a wd) of lins: lies that Cameron 11•<:ds him, untruths in thP sermons lw pn\a<·.lws and lins that hav0 sprnad into his housnhold. 
It is also in discussions with Lamont, a black inmatn and latm­dry partner. that D!m•k r<•alizes Llw absurdity of what lw has pn•ad11•d mitsidP or prison. I k also romps to understand the cor­n•ct c·o1H·.lusion that, rq{anllL:ss of ral'<'. lw should !w !wiping unify our rnuntry and <•mbracing il'i diwrsity. 
Wh6n Derek is relcas!xl !him prison. his only concern is remov­ing Danny from Canwron's "club." Convincing Danny to leave this group bPhind is not easy. but it is an act of utmost low on Der!'k's part. 
In tlw movil!'s most tqud1ing moment. Dernk utt<:rs. "I 1wPd you to undcrstand. Bm:aus1' I love you and you'n• my bnst frimd." DerPk is tirnd of' cwerything: tirnd of fPP!ing mad at tlw world, tired of foeling empty and tirnd of not being a proper roln mmlPI for his brotlwr. 
Tlw inl<'n'tmtion is a surcrssful orw: Danny is rcf'ormPd. IIowewr, lw still has a large d1•bt to repay soci!'ly for all tlw hatt• lw sprPad lwforn lkrnk canw home. Tlw movie addresses this fact in much "American History X's" message the same way "American Beauty" go unheard. hamlled Kevin Spacey's life refor­After all, it is up to everyone to mation, Acting reformed does not make Anrnrica truly a land of just wipe the slab~ clran. "equal opportunity." 


At the conclusion of the rno'>'ie, Danny's words ring all too true: The opinions expressed in this "JI ate is just baggage." column are those ofthe author 
It's never too late to watch an and not necessarily those ofThe inspiring movie; don't let Obseruer. 

Edward Norton (far left, far right) plays Derek Vinyard, a militant white-power supremacist sent to prison after committing a double homicide. Derek, after being released from jail, tries to convince his younger brother, Danny (Edward Furlong, center), of the lies behind the white-power movement. 
--' 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 21, 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 

Wild women stomp Bullfrogs on game's final play 
Aftt>r nach tr.am \lnts forced to By MATT HARRIGAN, 
punL quarterback Prisr.illa 
BRYAN KRONK. and KATIE 
Clem,~nts completed a 50­HUGHES 
yard pass to put thr Bullfrogs 
Sp"m Wiirer~ ,war tilt' Walsl1 goal line. Four plays lalnr. Badin punrhnd it in on an option,
Walsh 13, Badin 12 
but thr conversion attempt
In u battlr> that canrn down was thwarted by Angela
to tlw final play of tlrn ganw. 
Polsitrnlli, a11d \Valsh was
tht• Wild WonH'n of Walsh able to rPtain thP 13-12 lPa.d,
ddPalt·d Lhr Badin Bullfrogs On tlw r.nsuing possession.
1:~-12 at StPpan Fit>lds Walsh was f'orcr.d to punt, but
Tuesday night. 
they look the ball right bar.k
Thn beginning of' tho ganw 
with a momentum-dnstroying
was chararwrizi>d bv Badin's intercl'ption by Mayorga.
:;trong rushing attack and After another Walsh punt.
shon passing ganrn. ThP Badin looked rc\ady to pull-off
Bulll'rogs' drivn was intf'r­tho comeback. llowr.v<n.
ruptPd by an in Lti ri:eption. Karina Mayorga oner. again
but lh1w took thn ball back dashf'd thP Bullfrogs' plans
two µla}'S later. Badin WPnt with a
on w s!'or<' on a 
ganw-sav­
tPn-vard tourh­
<low·11 p,lSS by "We had our chances. ing inter­coption as
P r i s 1· i I I a 
and we should have 
t i Ill PClPm<·nts lo take 
ronr1erted orz the extra 
expired,
a 6-0 lnad. The Badin
Bullfrogs failPd points." 
was clear­
to 1-11rnplctt' thP ly disap­
o n t' -po i n t t· o n ­
Priscilla Clements 
p n int e d
\'!\rsion. how<'V­
Badin quarterback wi l h th1\
Pr. and it would loss, but
provP costly. tlwy know
ThPn. Walsh took possPssion and hold of 
tlH'Y played vr.ry WPII, and nParly IPfl victorious,
tlw ganw thanks lo a powPr­"\Vp ,had our chann\s. and
fu I rushing attack !Pd by \\'!l should havP convPrt<'d on
Krisl<'n Kcnnv. l!Pr 25-vard rPVPrsP run· put thf' ~Vild 
the PXLra points." said Bullfrog quartrrbal'k Priscilla
Womt'll in scoring posilion, and thPy put it in the nnd CIPmnnts. who thrrvv f'or one tourhdown and four interc(~p­
zonn four plays later. Walsh tions. "Our n play1~d great
thPn c.onvPrlPd for one and took a 7-6 !Pad, lmmPdiatPly and only gavP up two big aftPr Badin took ovnr. thP. 
plays. I think our ol'f'Pnsc is Wild Wonwn pouncPd again. 
rnady to go for BP. and I hope our dPl'Pnse can shut ·em
,ts Knrrna Mayorga mad<' r.tw out,"
f'irst of' IH'r thl'l'l' intrn•pp­() 11 th P O th C r Si d (' 0 (' th C'
tions in lhP ganw. This big field. Walsh was very ,~xcitrd
play was t'ollnw1'd by a 35­vard Kristl'n KP1111v Tl> scam­
about llw win. "\V1! had trouble at thn
pPr, and Walsh l;JOk a 1:1-<i start. but WP pirkPd it up in
!rad in!o tlw hall'. It appParr.d as if Badin was thr middle and finishod 
don!' l'or, but tlwy canrn t-1ut strong." said running bark 
gunning in tlw sPro1Hl half. 
KrisLPn Kenny, who rushed for 60 yards and 01w tourh­down, 

Wlwn asked what was going t h r o u g h h or m i n d as sh 1\ mad<' thn intorcoption to pro­servn the victorv, Walsh DB Karina Mayorga ·,mid. "I hopfl I don't drop iL." 
Shf1 didn't, and the Wild Women proved that arn rrady to relakn a spot among tlw inte rhall Plitt'. 
Off-Campus 12, Breen­Phillips 6 

On a warm and windy TuPsday night at Stepan Fields. the strong Off-Campus offense overpowered thl' young Brren-Phillips dl'f1,ns0 to secure a 12-(> victorv. 
For most ol' tlH\ fir~t hair. the Off-Campus offnnsP kept the BP de fenS(\ on tlw fie Id. oxecuting on short running plays and taking advantago of sPvPral BP defi>nsive iwnal­ties. 
Off-Campus scored first, midway through th(' first half'. as quartPrback .larni Stouffrr ronnerted with rercivcr Nicolr Benjamin for a tnn· yard touchdown pass to put tllf' Off-Campus team ahead. 
The extra point convl'rsion l'ailPd, but Ofl'-Campus still !1cd 6-0. 
BP's ofrnnsr finally got going later in thc first half with somP succpssf'ul runs bv q u a r tr, r b a r. k K a ti ;! McFarland. but the momnn­tum stopprd whon BP gave thP ball back to Off-Campus with nine seconds lrfL 
II ow P. v er. LIH' B P cl c fo n s e stPpp<'d up. as Triria KPpp1'l ramP up with a hugP int!'r­rc' ption off Stouffn, as Krpp1'I. evading SPV<'ral Off­Campus defrnders. rPturnPd the interception JO yards l'or the Bl' touchdown, tying thr score at six hPading into half­timr. 
The second half' saw more key plays by both t<\ams on 
dcfonse. as both offcnsPs sputtered after half'time. 
After the Ol'f-Campus defense forced the Bansheos to punt. Stouffer was inter­c e pt ed a gain . th is tinH1 by BP's Kelly Landers. 
However, any momentum shift in BP's favor was soon dashed, as Off-Campus's Anna Benjamin interc11ptrd Mr.Farland's nr.xt pass,· 
Off-Campus b0gan to wnar down tho inrxperionced BP drfense towards llrn nnd of 

thr. second ball'. and  r:onvert­ 
ed  on  fourth  down  to  keep  
their drive going.  

Four plays latPr. on a tTII· cial fourth down play, Stouffer convf'rted on another touchdown pass, this tim1\ connerling with Francesca DeLayo. giving the O!'f'­Campus team a 12-(1 load with two minutfls to play. 
BP's final drive failrd to convert on a fourth down play. forcing a turnovffr on downs. 
With no timrouts ldt. BP was unable to prevent Oil­Campus from running out Lim clor.k, as the game ended with thr. Off-Campus L<'am victorious. 
Overall, BP captain Jpnny \,VahoskA was satisl'i0d with the team's pnrformancr. 
"The defonsp, needs to be quicker and make more tal'k­Ies. but that's just our i1wx­pnrience: wn'r11 still lhn underdogs hPrc'." sho said. "We'rr. prrtty happy with that for a first ganrn; Off-Campus was tough," 

· Off-Campus roach Paul Diamantopoulos saw room for improvement alfrr his team's sloppy win. 
"I was very pleased with our overall pcrf'ormanc(i against BP. but w1' loft thn ganrn with a bad tasto in our mouth," Im said. "Therf' is no doubt that wr WPrc happy to 
win. but W(~ were simply dis­appointed in ourselves for allowing their del'cnsP to scorn a touchdown against us when our own d<d'ensP had shut them down so well," 
BP 10-1) will face Badin on S LI fl day at MC GI in 11 Fi(~ Id , while the Off-Campus loam I 1-0-1 J will also next play Badin on '1'111'.sday al Stepan, 
Pasquerilla West 7, Farley 0 
The Purple Weasels just c o u I d n ' t wa i t. Li kl~ kids o n Christmas morning who can't wait to opnn thoir nrw toys. PW broko out a nnw play right away to scorn thn l'irst and onlv touchdown in their game against Farley Tuesday night. /\manda Gallr.n made the touchdown, the first of many displays of spP-od and agility. "Lots of our plays aro directed toward Amanda," said PW coach Erir l'lutnirki. 
Corner Erin Schulte sur­prised Farley's ol'f'cnsn with an array of' impr!'ssivr intf'r­r r ptions, and safety Jill Houghton hrld of'f prnssurr from Farl(\V's 01'f'11nsc in lhf' sPcond ha!( 
"I thought WP playP.d w,~11, though we had a laps<! at the brginning," said ·FarlPy Captain Hnbecca c;Iatz. "BP th McKav and Lindsev Kosinski both had great cat,:Iws in llw socond half. and Jpn Morgan had a good sack." 
In tlw last play ol' lhP ganw. PW's SusiP CarpPnter collidNl with Far11,y's off'PnsP. Pnding tlw ganw with tlw rush ol' thP rnd shirtPd first aid squad on to tlw f'i 1d d , Carp<' n t<' r's tPammatPs left victorious. but unsure wlwthnr slw had bro­knn her noso. 
"Susie's got tlw most lwart on thn tPam. Last ynar slH' led in sacks," said PW roach Eric Plutnicki. "She's a lot like Lawr<'nc·p Taylor." 

The Oh,erVt'r accepts cl.issifieds every business dar from 8 .1.111. to 311.111. at the Notrt' [hmc office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-d,1y classifieds is 3 p.m. Al cl.1ssificds must he prepaid, 
The charge is 3 cents per chara'ctcr per day, induding all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr m cdir .,11 classifieds for content without issuing refunds, 
CLASSIFIEDS 

ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  2 BR, 2nd fir. Apt. 525/mo.Along St.  Babysitter: Looking for an ener­ She's a lucky, she's a star, but she  
LOST & FOUND  A.M. -232-2378 PM. -288-2726  Joe River lncL Water/Sec, Syst/Trash 288-2654 or 288·2788  getic babysitter for the evening of Fri. Oct. 6. and afternoon of Sat.  like to spend my Thursday nights at the Library. Especially the 13th  cries. cries, cries in her lonely heart.  
BUY/SELL N.O. FOOTBALL TIX.  Oct. 7, to watch 2-yr.-old and 4-yr.­ floor. It's great. So many people  She cries because she wants to be  
LOST NO-PU WEEKEND -OUR  HOME &AWAY.  3.4 & 5-bed room alum n I-owned  old. Will pay $12/hr. Call 937-294­ hanging out reading books. Some  like Christine.  
PURDUE FLAG WAS LOST IN  (219) 289-8048NO STUDENT  homes for rent Please call Jason  4857  are nice enough to bring one to  
THE PARKING LOT ON THE  CONVERSION TIX NEEDED  @240-0322 for homes close to  you.  But Christine has to work tonight.  
SOUTH SIDE OF EDISON ROAD  campus.  NoticesSKYDIVEI!  
THE 6 FT. X 10 FT. FLAG WAS  MSU vs. ND football tickets bought  Training Students for 35 Years1  Hey Kraly,Who let the dogs out?  That really sucks for Christine . and  
HAND SEWN BY MY WIFE. NO  and sold (219) 289-8048  Hour North of South BendGREAT  Manda Pancia has my car.  
QUESTIONS ASKED PLEASE  WANTED  LAKES SKYDIVERS, INC, 1-800­ Hello Kerry. Talk to you later.  
DROP OFF AT THE OBSERVER  Dad needs 2 tix to Stanford game'  351-6617  Kerry lives in this office.  
OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH  Ckrosey@mindspnng.com  WINTER BREAK/SPRING  Gilligan... the skipper too ...  
DINING HALL THANK YOU VERY MUCH  2 ND/USC Tix+ Ailrare  BREAKSki & Beach trips on sale now1 www.sunchase.com or call 1­ PERSONAL  The.millionaire.. and his wife.  Some of us even pay rent.  
GOTO alumni.nd.edul-ndc stax  800-SUNCHASE TODAY!  I pay my rent in coconuts.  
WANT TO BRING YOUR HORSE  The MOOOOO-VIE star, the prates- 
TICKETS  FOR RENT  Looking for 1 oenterprising students tor part time computer work Earn  TO SCHOOL? SAGEBRUSH STA· BLES IS THE PLACE. JUST 25  sor ancJ Maryanne.,. all on Giligan·s lslancJ,  Trix are for kids.  
up to $4,000lmo. 1·888-304-0414  MINUTES FROM NOTRE  Silly wabbit.  
WANTED  For RentB&B lodging in alumni  Lv Msg  DAME.INDOOR RIDING ARE- The bestest date movie is When  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS 2899280  home for ND games. (219) 243­ NALIGHTED OUTDOOR ARE- Harry Met Sally.  It's 3:10, and I'm waiting.,.  
·-----------.  2628 or garyb@mviJJage.com  Chrislian family in need ol upbaat  NASECURED TACJ{ ROOMFLEXI­ 
ATTENTION Paying $50.00 per  caregiver for 18-mo. Old boy in our  BLE RIDING HOURSCLEAN SAFE  The bestest dates have initials M.S.  and waiting ...  
ticket for last 3 home games. "No  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  home near campus, Flex. Hours &  ENVIRONMENTFAMIL Y OWNED- 
student conversions wanted."  AND CLOSE TO  great pay. Cati Sharyl al 237·0911.  SAGEBRUSH STABLESBOARD·  I don't nave class until 12:30  Too bad Noah doesn't have his car.  
(219) 289·8048  CAMPUShttp:tlmmmren!als.home- ING LESSONS HORSEBACK RID- tomorrow.  
page.com/email:mmmrentals@aoL  Need afterschool care tor two boys  ING55251 SAGE Rd.21 ~-232-3361  he could give me a ride home,  
SELLING  com232-2595  (9& 12) in our home, flexible days,  I saw my best friencJ today, .. she  
ND FOOTBALL  must nave car, Call Kim or Matt  SPRING BREAK 2001 • Jamaica,  looked really really cold.  Home ,.. so far away right now,  
TKTS 251-1570  That Pretty Place, Bed and  Bloom 255-3472, 1-5104.  Cancun, Barbados. t,,tore. Hiring  
Breakfast Inn has space available  mbloom@nd,edu  Campus Reps •2 Free Trips! Free  We had a press conference in  Bulla Road has never looked so  
VICTORY TKTS  for football!pc1rent wknds 5 Rooms  Meals-Book by 11/3. Call 1-800­ Journalism today. Officer Colwell is  dark,  
BUY'SELL 'TRADE  with private baths. $80-$115.  Help!Stafler needs to rent  426-771 Oor  the coolest.  
ND FOOTBALL  Middlebury. 30 miles from campus  condo/guest house/room in  sunsplashtours.com  or so sad and dreary,  
232·0964  Toll Road. Exit #107, 1-800-418­ Pasadena, CA. General area for  90210 Every day. 3·5 p.m. 338  
www.v1ctorytickets.com  9487.  New Year's hoildi'ly penod(12•27 to  NICE HOME AVAILABLE NOW  Keough. Tell 'em Noah sent ya  I really hope my roomma1es are  
--­-­--­ 1-2) My son is marching 1n the  NORTH OF ND [ROSELAND] 277­ comfy in their beds.  
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  I have 5 bedrooms for renl in my  Rose Bowl Parade! Would consider  3097  $4 Haircuts. 337 Keough,  
273-3911  n,cely·decorated private home for  tiosting your lam11y for the  Hey Kevin, move your darn leg so I  
Football weekends: less than 2  USC2001 game. t1cKets mcluded,  I m done a little late but that's OK  $3.99 Haircuts, directly across the  can go to sleep  
"  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  miles north of s!a'11um. continental  ND tans only!Please email tdat­ hall. .. with a free shave.  
AM. -232-2378  brkfst included Many happy repeal  nd@aolcom or call 259-7544. as  Hey Jessir.a, your favorite player is  Ann, will you go to dinner with  
P M -288-2726  customers' Call Kim 277-8340.  for Tina. Thanks  on tomorrow.  Saleem is the dream,  Plaxico. even if he has no car.  

Thursday, Seprember 21, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

BEST MUSICAL 1996 TONY' AWARD 1996 PULITZER PRIZE 

\ THREE PERFORMANCES ONLY I OCTOBER 3-5 
MORRIS PERFORMING A.RTS CENTER 
Frowi the front pe.ge of THE NEW YORK TIMES to the coTer of NEWSWEEK, fro• its Pulitzer Prize to its sweep of the 1996 Tonye Awards, Jonathan Larson's wru.sical has been hailed as •a raw and riTeting 
¦ilestone in wru.sical theaterr• by ROLLING STONE. 
STUDENTS SAVE tl5 
219.245.6085 

•UNITED AIRLINES 
Broadway Theatre League 


Not Talid ,nth any other discount or proaotional offer or on preTiously purchased tickets. 3ubject to aTailab111ty. Not Talid on a20 seats sold 1 hr before curtain. Valid only with 3tudent ID. 
, 

r 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday September 21,2000
' 
,<; 
NFL 

Cowboys say Aikman will start against 49ers 
Associar._.J Press 
IHVING. TPxas 
Troy ,\ikman. who has missfld two games aJ't1ir his ninth rnnrussion. will be back in the starting lineup for Dallas against San Frant'isco. 
Cowboys owner .lt:rry Jones said Wcd,rnsday night that. based on a post-practic1• evalu­ation of Aikman. tlrn quarter­back would indeed start Sunday's game. 
"Tlwn' is no reai;on al this tinw to delay him from com­peting." Jones said. "Our plans had been all along this week to evaluatl~ Troy whrn he came into lo stnrt this w1wk. llr-is 

.. 
rnady to go." Jones and coach Dave Campo both said Aikman was 
eHiLed about geLt.ing the offi­cial word about starling again. but the quarterback had already told rnportnrs earlit>r Wednesday that lw had been cleared to play and expected to sLart. 
"I feel like crnough Lime has pass<>d and I don't l'cel like I'm putting myself at risk," Aikman said before taking a majority of _the snaps during thP Cowbovs· two-hour workout. 
Bight aftc>r prarlice. Campo said team ortic.ials wPrn still in an evaluation mode and that t\ikman's playing slalus had not been uetermined. Two hours later, in a hastily called news conf'erence. it was. 
.Jones said Aikman was eval­uated bv tPam trainers after Lhe practice iii pads during the head ol' the day. Tho owner 
Pulling Your Hair  
Out?  
Come To:  
oJJ"  \/\ 1·,l 1(~;~11l :1~\I V]I I if)-\ CYb  
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days AWeek"  
1811 South Bend Ave. South Bend IN 46637  
(219) 271-7674  


$2 OFF WITH THIS AD THRU Ocr. 1st! 

said 1weryonf\ involved in the decision agreed that Aikman could return to ga.mn action. 
"Certainly. he's ready to play and planned to play," Joll(\S said. "We wanted lo makP surf' it was in the best in tnrcst for him and the team." 
Aikman didn't ta-lk to reporters after practice, a ses, sion that wasn't attnndPd by Jone's. 
Before practi<:(', Aikman said lw had met with team dor.tors. who told him he was clear to play, 
''They say it's a dc1cision 1 r.an make. I'm feeling good," Aikman said. "The idea is that I will be playing this week. 1 foe! like I'm capabln ol' doing that, and am looking forward to it." 
Aikman has not played sinr.P 
being sarkcd f'or tho fourth time in tho first half' of' the opening 41-14 loss to Philadclphia on Sept. 3. 
Randall Cunningham started at Arizona and Washington. Aikman practiced throughout last week but was held out again against the Hedskins. The Cowboys won 27-21. with Cunningham throwing for 18:.i yards and two touchdowns. 
"It was nvaluated from a miidical standpoint as far as what would be in the best interest for me long term. It wasn't about how I l'elt follow­ing those pra(:tices." Aikman said. 
Aikman has had three con­cussions in his last IO rngular­season starts. inrluding in con­secutive games last season that. forcPd him to miss two games. 
lie was still having 
hcadachfls last wmik from the 
latest roncussion, but he said 
Wednesday he wasn't having 
any rnorr. concussion-related 
symptoms. Aikman appeared 
upbeat after practice, unlike 
he had last week. 
While he has been especially 
susceptiblP to conrnssions the 
past year. Aikman insists he 
has no worrins about getting 
hurt again. 
"I wouldn't play if I felt I was 
going in tentatively. I don't 
anticipate that happening." 
Aikman said. "It never has in 
tlrn past, and I don't think that 
is the r.ase now. If it is, I'll b11 
thfl first one to say I shouldn't 
be playing. You can't play 
effectively if you're concerned ·about getting hit." 

bright fY.l!MISYLVANIA 
OSRAM SYLVANIA l~ known aro11nd the world for i,,novativ" lighting .~olutions and quality products. Our dedication to a brighter future extends to your career, and we have exciting opportunities available for recent graduates wl,o share in our commitment to excellence and quality. 
The projects are real -ENGINEERING, FINANCE, HUMAN RESOURCES, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, MANUFACTURING, and MARKETING. As a participant in OSRAM SYLVANIA 's Associate Development Progratn, you will he personally responsible for addressing and completing challenging assign,nents in our core businesses andfunctions. 
We 're looking for people with exceptional academic and personal achievement, initiative and a willingness to relocate every eight months while putting their .~pedal talents to the test. Upon succl!ssfu/ completion ofthe two year program, your .~kills and performance will be consideredfor reglllar position openings in fl,e company. 
Askyour career placement offlcefor information riboul our,n-campu!j. recruitJ,rg opportunities or to learn more visit our web page at WWW. !ii y Va'' , a.COm 


L-------------------------------------------·--· 
2000 Mendoza College of Business 
Career Forum 
Thursday, September 21, 2000 6:00pm-8:30pm (MCoB) 
***For Seniors, MBAs, and MS in Accountancy students only*** ***Dress is Business Formal*** 
Friday, September 22, 2000 10:00am-3:30pm (MCoB) ***For ALL students*** ***Dress is Business Casual*** 
• 
Meet and talk with representatives from over 100 companies 

• 
Take advantage of great networking opportunities, to assist with attaining full-time positions and sununer internships 

• 
Attend information sessions to learn more about different career fields and options 


Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business 
Thursday, September 21, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 2 J 
11 ­
Come visit Jesus in Eucharistic Adoration. He too has 
been hungry, weary, lost, and lonely. He waits for you. 
"Each moment that you spend with Jesus will deepen your union with Him and make your soul 
everlastingly more glorious and beautiful in Heaven, and will help bring about an everlasting 
peace on earth. When you look at the crucifix, you understand how much Jesus loved you. 
When you look at the Sacred Host, you understand how much Jesus loves you now." 
Mother Teresa 

'The Holy Eucharist contains the whole spiritual treasure of the Church, that is, Christ 
himself... He who is the Living Bread, whose flesh, vivified by the Holy Spirit and vivifying, 
gives life to men." Vatican Council II 

"Sooner would heaven and earth turn to nothingness than would My Mercy not embrace a 
trusting soul. Let no soul fear to draw near to Me, even though their sins be as scarlet." Jesus to St. Maria Faustina 

There is no special format, you can pray, read, write in a journal, or just sit silently. This is your special time each week to spend with Jesus, truly present in the Blessed Sacrament. For more information, or to sign up for a timeslot, please contact Mary Tarsha 4x2469 (tarsha.1@nd.edu) or Lisa Demidovich 4x0847 (ldemidov@nd.edu). 
\I 
Areyou hungry? 
Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for 
the food which endures to eternal life, which the 
Son of man will give to you.. . I am the bread of 
life, he who comes to me shall not hunger. Jn6:21,Js 
.. 
' ' 

Areyou weary? 
Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, 
and I willgive you rest. Take my yoke upon you, 
and learn from me; for I am gentle and lowly in 
heart, and you will fmd rest for your souls. 
Mt 11:28-9 

Areyou lost? I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father, but by me. 
Jn 14:6 

Areyou lonely? I will not leave you desolate; I will come to you. .. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. Jn 14: 1s. 21 
• 



page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 2 I, 2000 
NBA 

Ewing dealt to Supersonics in four team mega-trade 
the Lakers before being bring the Knicks their first "It was important in doing With the Sonics, Ewing will 
Associated I' rcss 

shipped immediately to New championship since 1973. bnt so. however, that we had the take over the starting spot at 
Patrir.k Ewing's 15-year ,·,irePr with the Knicks ended Wednesday night whrn New York sent him to Seattle in a four-tciarn, 12-player trade also involving the Los Angeles Lakers and Phoenix. 
The Knicks sent Ewing to the Supersonics and received Glen Hice from the 1.akers and Luc Longley from the Suns. Among the other major players mov­ing wern Horace Grant from Seattle to Los Angeles and 
Chris Dudley from  New York  
to Phoenix.  
Various  trades  involving  

Ewing and Rice have been in the works for the past monlh. including one involving Detroit that fell apart at the last moment in mid-August. 
Thr Knicks, Lakers and Sonirs thf\n discussed a three­le am dflal. but the Knicks wouldn't put! the trigger bncausP they fell they werr.n ·t gr.tti ng enough in return. 
Once tlw Suns entered the picturf'. the tctlks heated up again. 
HicP. a frp11 agPnt, rnceiv11d a onP-vnar off'Pr from the Chit',;g-o Bulls this week. But lw wavt1recl on signing it as his agrnt. David Falk. trird to brokPr another dral, and tlw Bulls l'in,tlly pullPd ilH' offor off the tablP Wednrsdav. 
H i c t' " n d P cl u p w ith th e Knicks as part of a sign-a.nd­trnd1' transaction in whirh hf' got a multiyear contrart l'rom 
120 North Main-St.· 
Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 
York. 
Several other players were included in the trade to make it work under league salary cap guidPlines. The Knicks got Vernun Maxwell. Vladimir StPpania and Lazaro Borrnll from Seattle and Travis Knight from Los Angeles. 
New York also got firsi­round draft picks in 2001 from the Lakers and Sonics, 

it never happened. ability to add value, and we 
Ewing's only appearance in believe we have done that." the NBA Finals came in 1994 Ewing has a no-trade clause when the Knicks lost to in his contract, but said he Houston in seven games. The would waive it if he was trad­Knicks made i.L back Lo the ed to a team of his liking. Ile fina.ls in 1999, but Ewing was met with Walker in August injured and did not play. when the first four-team trade 
"Patrick is one of the hard­was discussed. est working. most loyal play­"There were many times we ers I have ever been around," thought the deal was com­
New York pletely dead, but it got resur­
roach .foff Van rected and here we are," 
and two sec­"Seattle is.fortunate Gundy said. Walker said. "We feel great ond-round "l have told about it. The trade is not with­
to get a player

picks in him more than out risk given Patrick's age
ofhis talent

200 I frnm once that be is and injury history. But he's Seattle. and character." a champion still one of the top half-dozen The Lakcrs even if he players in game. also get Greg hasn't won a "If it doesn't work out, we'll 
Jeff Van Gundy

Foster, championship. have some cap flexibility next C h u c k Knicks coach lie practiced summer. 
Person and 
Emanuel 
Davis f'rnm Seattle. Phoenix gets the Knicks' No.' 1 pick in 
2001. 
"Getting Patrick accomplish­es a big ·offscason goal of ours," said Sonics general manager Wally Walker. adding Lhal 48 lrade scenarios wP-rn discussed between the · Sonics, Knicks and Lakr.rs. "Until we got on thci confor­ence call with the league this afternoon. I had no con!'idPncc that the deal would get donl'." 
The trade brings a closP to Ewing's earner in New York. wlwre lw arrived as the No. I pirk in the 1985 draft. I le was expected to be the type ol' franchise player who f'ould­
(219) 255· 7737 Fax: (219) 259-9579 
~~ .....~ 
Restaurant 
T.J. Laughlin
General ManagerClass of 1973 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
"The Best of Both Worlds" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday September 26, 2000 
4:45 PM 102 De Bartolo 
With Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs 
Application Deadline: December 1 For Fall 2001 -Spring 2002 AY 2001-2002 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 

and played like a champion 
center that was manned by Grant and Vin Baker. 
The NBA champion Lakers, who were on the verge of' los­ing Rice on the free-agent market and getting nothing in return, come out looking like the big winners. Grant fills their void at power forward, while Hick Fox will presum­ably replace Hice in the start­ing lineup 
The Knicks received six players and four draft picks for a 38-year-old centPr with bad knees and a surgically repaired wrist. But they no longer have a top caliber cen­ter and have a glut at small forward and shooting guard with Hice, Allan Houston, Latrell Sprewell and Maxwell. 

every day he was here. Seattle is fortunate to get a player of his talent and charact.er." 
Ewing has one year rPrnain­ing on a four-year, $GO mi11ion contract and has said he would like to play two more years beyond this upcoming season. The Knicks expressed no interest in giving Ewing an extension, and they started exploring th(, possibility of trading him earlier this• sum­mer. 
"H ber.anrn clear that he was looking for achangr. and whPI1 he requestt>.d a lrade, we respected his request," Knicks g1:neral mannger Scott Layden said. 
Tluarsdoqs oPe sludenls nigl-t. StuJenfs Peceive 25% off meal p•ke with qouP sfud-t?nt 1.0. 
U £I
n
~D 
' 

·; f..·~.. 
Jii:\\~t.,, .:,{tf\;::,,~2RZ-rj~~""
:.d:.;::::_",:;._: 

Mrcl1ian<1'S most unique Jinlnq ••P•l"i<ence, Lccafed In the b,-ewepq at tbe Hisfof'ic 100 Cenfer in Misl.awalco (219) 257-1792 www.100cenfer.com 

Invites you to join their representatives this Thursday and Friday at the Notre Dame College of Business Career Fair to discuss opportunities at Ford Motor Company. We will be looking for positions in Finance, Accounting, Purchasing, Material and Logistics P1anning, Marketing and Sales, and Process Leadership (IT). If you cannot attend, then please visit our website at 
WWW.MYCAREER.FORD.COM 
WE'LL SEE YOU THERE!! 

Associated Press  The Packers won their first game on Sunday without scoring  offensive lineman, Earl Dotson, might miss the rest of the season  didn't feel any better. Usually, you look at it and. 'Hey, it's not  important Corey Bradford is. I'm not trying to tear this football  
GREEN 13AY, Wis. These arc Lhe Green Bay Packers of old -antl not the glory days, either. Green Bay's sputtering offense is mired in its worst three-game slump since 1992 and is ranked 29th in the NFL.  a touchdown, something they hadn't done in 35 years. "Our running game is strug­gling. Our passing game is strug­gling," receiver Antonio Freeman said. "It makes you say, 'What is wrong with us?"' For starters, Grncn Bay's best  with a bad back and speedy wideout Corey Bradford is out with a broken leg until rn~xt month. H.unning back Dorsey Levens (knee) just returned to action and sore-elbowed Breit Favre is still finding his groove after missing most of training camp.  as bad as you think.' " But there's no sugarcoating this one: the Packers, who no longer have Hobert Brooks and Mark Chmura to prevent teams from double-teaming Freeman, a.ren't nearly the prolific scoring machine they were in the l 990s. They've scored just 40 points  team apart. We need everybody. Th~,t means Corey Bradford, too. Schroeder shrugged off Freeman's critical comments, saying "l didn't hear him say it, so I don't know how I should take it." Favre said the tough times  
in three games. and the dissatis­ won't divide this team.  
faction  began  to  boil  over  "It's easy for anyone to step  
Monday when Freeman took  out on the field and play or prac­ 
several subtle swipes at No. 2  tice  or sit in meetings when  
receiver Bill Shroeder.  you're 6-0," Favre said. "But you  
"It wasn't  a  bash  against  find out a lot about the character  
Billy," Freeman said. "It was my  of guys when things  are  not  
speaking out on the fact of how  going the way you want them to.  
How you handle that determines  

 your team's future."  
Ironwood ramig: Dentistry 271-7500  v\'hen things are going bad. he added, "nice things won't be said about you all the time. And  
RUSSELL A MURPHY, DDS  you've got to be thick-skinned. You've got to be strong. It's easy  
1639 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE SUITE 109 SOUTH BEND, IN 46635  to go your separate ways. And when you start doing that, that's when your team will dissipate.  
"I don't foresee that happening  
with this team."  
10% COLLEGE STUDENT DISCOUNT  


Thursday, September 2 l, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
Favre: low times won't bring down Packers' high spirits 

Professional Athletes Choose Chiropractic 
Logan's national reputation as a pre­mier chiropractic college is due in large part to faculty members like Dr. Ralph Filson. 
In his private practice, Dr. Filson acts as consulting doctor of chiropractic to the St. Louis Cardinals and the World Champion St. Louis Rams. 
In both capacities, Dr. Filson treats 
some of the world's best athletes in 
professional sports. 
lfyou would like to learn more about an exciting career in chiropractic, please contact Logan Collge for an informational packet. 
......\"~~ 

Dr. Ralph Filson with Mark McGwire 
1-800-533-9210 
www.logan.edu loganadm@logan.edu 
1851 Schoettler Road, Chesterfield, MO 63017 An Equal Opportunity Institution of Higher Education 

campus senator? 
Call Judicial Council 631-4556 for more information by 5:00 Thursday, September 2L 
LOW 
student 
Airfares 
Eurailpasses More Than 100 Departure Cities Study Abroad 
IC:•. 
student Universe~ 
IT"S YOUR--WORLD. EXPl.ORE IT 

.. 
studentuniverse.com 800.272.9676 


,------~-----------------------~·-. 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 21, 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 

Howard, Lyons clash for South Quad dominance 
Sunday) the way we usually do in
BvUZ HOFHN, KATIE 
practice," said tailback Julicl
[lEMENT, and CHRIS 
Hobbs said. "but we'rn rfladv to
FEDERICO 

clrnnge thut." • LPd by s1'nior l"aplains Jacki Bonaguro and Lisa Thomas, the Tlw baitl1• for South <)uact 
Lyons squad hopes to display 
~lory kicks off tomorrow night tonight all the hard work they've wlwn llw womPn or Lvons llall put in on the field. Uth 011 lloward llall :tl <) p.m Tim <'. om petition, tho ugh. 
b<'tv.'cl'n those two South Qwtd
outsidt· tlw StPpan CPntcr. Fad1 1.l'Hfll looks to avengP a 
halls is friendly. loss suffcn•d on Sunday. Thi' .. l.yc!.ns llS ll'.l !Iy ~Mi .~ gr:o.d Ducks or l loward Ital!. d1'1'1•atl'd lPam. Vesehk said. so 1t s 
bv tlw I.Pwis Chkks last W<'Pk­ulwnys a fun ganw." P;l<l. PlltPr tlw ganw with a mix of both up1wrclnssmc•n and Welsh vs. Lewis l'rcshnl!'n. ()uarterback Jill Fans should br pn,parnd for a \i1ispl1k n11d st>nior ,·aµtain 
hard fought match-up Thursday JPanrw TrPIPasP both agrPNl on al 8 p.m. when Lhn Wrlsh tllf' strati•gy for this week's VVhirlwinds play thn Lewis 
ganw. Chi(•kpns on Strpan Fit'ld. "Wr•'rp g()ing lo mix it up a lil­
When thP htdir.s battl,•d it out tlP bit this ganw," TrdBasn said. last year the S!'0rf' was 25-(J in lot of nPw
"\Vp'II lw trying a f'avor of the \'Vhirlwinds. The things mi olfonsr." gamn was plagued with numr.r­VPsPlik. a junior and returning ous intrn:0ptions and sloppy play 
startH. said 
on belrnlf' of tlrn tlw tt>a111 will I,Pwis 1Jffonse. fol"us mainly "We'[{ be trying Lewis captain 
on imprnving Kath1~rine
a lot o.fnew
Llwir gamP llarcourt real­
and simply things on offense. " 
izes that with coming out to Welsh 's strong play hard. dPfensl' they will
Jeanne Trelease 

Contributing have to keep the
Howard captain

to tlw d<'fp n -off'ensl' movingsiw pffort will 
for this bP sPnior 
Thursday's 
1-:mily llorg ganw. whilP 1111 tlw ort'PnsivP PrH!. "\Vp hopP to shut tlwir olfonsn I liiward will n•ly on kPy rr'rPiwr down this tinw." she said. Va111'ssa !\J1•ro. also a SPnior. 
llarrnurt rnalizes that with Thi' wom1'11 ol' lsons l!all an' \Vl'!sh's strong cll'fonsl' Llwy will n·bounding 1·ro111 ,; 2(>-0 loss Lo 
havP to knPp tlw offpns1• moving Cavanaugh on Sunday. Tlw tPam for this Thursday's ganw. is young. rnnsisti11g larg1•ly of 1:rnshman quartnrbaC'k fr1•slrnwn. bul will usP ils dPJ'Pat Chantal ])(>it-uaz )Pad LPwis with last \\'Pl'kP11tl to motivatP tlwm 
a touchdown pass in tlwir ')pen­liir tonight's nrntrhup. 
ing ganw (1-0 win against "\\11· just didn't play ion 

barks that will try to <listurb Cavanaugh's passing gamn. 
Def'r,nsive captain Erin Piroutck knows that the Chaos have a potr,nt offonsP. but she has contidcnco in her squad. 
"Wr,'rc up to t!w rhall<'ngn." she c:laims. 
On offense. Pangborn is rather incxpnrien!'nd. with len of thP starters playing a new position. Offt.msive captain Nirholn MPycr is hopdul that thny will play well. 
"We had some good plays in practice against our ddenso, which is very talPntnd. so WP hopn to do as wP!I in tlrn ganw," she said. 
Pangborn may PlllPr tlw ganw with emotion on tlrnir sid,i. 
They are trying to turn around a losing sr.ason last ynar. whi!P avenging consccutivr~ losses to Cavanaugh I.hi' past two years. 
Tho Chaos, nwanwhile, are trying to build on tlwir solid start and f'VPn improve last year's fin­ish, when thny made it. to thr, 
srmilinals in Urn playoffs. 
HaPPY 21st Birthday Annie! 
From All Your Friends 

lloward. Lc'vvis hop<cs to giv0 Welsh a run for their money wh0n Delrnaz is bi\hind tlrn hall. 
Wl'lsh "has a very strong team this year. with a ton of exc01lenl players who work well together." said W11lsh team captain Allson Tullis. 
The last game was an easy win for the womrn of Welsh with a 29-6 defeat over Pasqtwrilla West. 
Senior quarterback 

Chaos will bring their explosive offense, fresh off a 26-0 drubbing of l.vons Hall, to the stonewall defense of the Pangborn Phoxes. 
The Chaos arc led by Junior quarterbacks Mandy Heimer and Lynn Olszowy, who hope to have another productive day throwing to their favorite target. Melissa Marcotte, who had thn~e touch­down receptions Sunday against 
Lyons. 
When asked 
about her squad's 

Katie Hak "We hope to shut chances 
has been a their (l/ense down." Thursday, captain lPadBr on Arny Szestak said, the offense• "I just hopn w11 do 
Katherine Harcourt
!'or Welsh our bAsl. We~ like this sCHtson Lewis captain to play evr,ryon11 
along with former soc­cer player Jen Grub. 

Wlrnn the veteran Whirlwinds face the Chkkf'lls the experir~nce behind them can turn out to bt1 nn advantage over the young Lewis team. 
The Whirlwinds just might b,• sending t.lrn Chickens straight to their roops if they keep up tlw strong action that has so far been an obvious strength for them. Welsh and Lewis haw an important gamf' at stake. 
Aggression and few mistakes are thn kr,v Plements that will determinfl ~1ho r.onws out victo­rious Thursday. 
Cavanaugh vs. Pangborn 

It is an agP-old quPstion that has bt'f'n askPd linw and again in tlw world of' sports: are games won with outstanding offpnsf' or dominant dl'f1,nsf''1 
Th is question may bc ansW('.rcd tonight at 7 p.m. at Stepan Fields. Tlw Cavanaugh 
and move the ball 
around a lot." 

Cavanaugh ought lo be challenged by Pangborn's solid defensive squad, which thinks it will be one of the league's touglrnst this year. 
They return three solid line­backers and have fast defensive 
,.,.. 
. .~....................~-............ ·-·--•--...---.. -----· ~ ... ----­
....... 
Thursday, Seprember 21, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 :===================~=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=-===========.:.=.:.=.:.=:.=:.=:.=:.=.:.=.:.=:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=:.=.:.=:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=:.=:.=:.=:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=:.=:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=.:.=:.=:.=:.=:.=:.=:.=:.=:.=::=... 
1
This Week in Campus Ministry 

Hfricentric Spirituality:
Tuesday, September 19, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel Campus Bible Study Tuesday, September 19, 7:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel Confirmation-Session # 1 Wednesday. September 20, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel C:::, NEW LOCATION!!! Interfaith Christian Night Prayer Friday-Saturday. September 22-2 3 Sacerd Heart Parish Center (St. Joe Hall) Freshmen Retreat #3 0 Saturday, September 23, l :30 p.m. Notre Dame Room, Lafortune Asian Culture and the Biblical World Dr. Seung Ai Yang, Biblical Scholar University of St. Thomas Saturday-Sunday, September 23-24 Oakwood Inn Asian American Student Retreat Sunday, September 24, l :30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Felipe Morel, csc Monday-Friday. September 25-29 103 Hesburgh Library Sign-up, Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #63 (Nov. 3-5, 2000) September 25-October 30 103 Hesburgh Library Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 (Nov. 3-4, 2000) Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Keough, Howard, Dillon, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, Sorin Monday. September 25, 6:00 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom Emmaus Kick-Off  Hn flwesome notre Dame Experience ne ofche first theology lessons introduced to many African American first-year students at Notre Dame takes place at Fatima Retreat Center on the Friday evening of the first week mofclasses. After the traditional ice breakers and informal introductions, "Our History and the Garden of Eden" is one of the first talks presented at "The Plunge," an overnight retreat experience offered to freshmen ofAfrican descent. We begin here because students who attend the retreat gather to see themselves and each other in the image and likeness of God as members of a broader community with a history and purpose to be realized at the University of Notre Dame. "The Plunge" is just one component of Africentric Spirituality, the Campus Ministry-Cross Cultural Ministry program created in 1996 to contribute to the spiritual, social and educational experience ofstudents ofAf­rican descent. As the name suggests, the program helps FU11d1•wtthll1iii&ifili444Mhil to welcome into our midst an clilssmilte, ilthlete, slilff, ildministriltor,Africentric image of God as seen in the ministry of Jesus leprechaun, leiJder ilnd friend, milhes for il Christ, through the witness of our saints and ancestors, spiritually-cohesive notre Dame family. and in our daily interactions with peers, faculty and staff. Seeing Christ as professor, roommate, classmate, athlete, staff, admin­istrator, leprechaun, leader and friend, makes for a spiritually-cohesive Notre Dame family. The programs offered in Africentric Spirituality include: • the monthly Rejoice! Catholic Mass • Freshmen Intro (which includes "The Plunge") • Sankofa Scholars Honors Program • Rediscovering Christianity: A Bible Study in the Africentric Perspective • and many others As with other ethnic programs offered at Notre Dame, Africenrric Spirituality is a program of inclusion. People from all cultural and ethnic backgrounds are invited to participate. Sharing our stories opens our hearts to the many faces and expressions of God. Africentric Spirituality is one such expression. All are welcome! For further information, phone or e-mail Dawn Foster 'O1, Stephen Steele '03, or Chandra Johnson, Assistant to the President, Assistant Director ofCross Cultural Ministry. [I] Great Idea --··· ---'. ----­,,,­... -.. ----... --~ Asian Culture and the.:,...,....;_,,;lital.World ,oz'.'"ti ~::; An insightful lecture by '/Dr. Seung Ai Yang, Biblical Schol University of St. Thomas ..i i~ , Septkmber 23 .· . /.., 1 :30 p.m. -All are Welcome Nbt[f Dame ,~,p(1m, LaFortune ;~~-,~· y;,,,:,'.~",i;>IMJA·•~ ~ Big News ln1erfai1h Chris1ian Niah1 Prayer has New Location: Morrissey Chapel Same Awesome Prayer Same Awesome Music Every Wednesday @ Io p.m.lnte~uMm NORRISSEY Hall Chapel mrl_ht [Uj,v.rer ALL ARE WELCONE [!] RCIA Info IT'S NOT TOO LATE Want to explore becoming Catholic? Join us. First RCIA Session Sunday, September 24 10-11 :30 a.m. Lafortune's Notre Dame Room ALL ARE WELCOME• Contact Tami Schmitz@ 631-3016  
0MPUS tv11N1STRY 112 Badin Hall 631-5242 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 email ministry.1@nd.edu web www.nd.edu/~ministry March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center  



page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 21, 2000 
--------------------=-----=--------~======-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=-==========================-========================---­
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Belles drop close match 
Even ii' they lost on Urn Priganc made two atlc~mpts Hy SARAH RYKOWSKI srnn•bonrd. th<' B0llf1s felt for t.lrn Bcllfls, Laurn :-ipom Wri rrr thPy c.amr> out and playPd Paulcn. Jl'ssir,a Klink. thnir hearts out. The major­Catherine Valent, Adrian ll \\'its a nightmarish casr' ity of' lhf' ganw was spPnt in Kirby, Kristin Grernwood. of dt',ia Vll. tlw Spartans' zonr. and Stephanie Arlnak all 
For tlw sPrnnd tinw this llnidi Zawadski. who <·hallr.ngrd thr. Manchnstrr s1•ason. thP BP!l('s lust a scorrd tlw winning goal !'or netmindrr once. matrl1 in 1.lw f'inal minutPs thr visiting tPam. and her "Wc1 had a lot of' energy. 10 a 1Nll11 who was dParlv ll•ammatPs had sPveral and it rrally workrd wt'II for oulmatl'lwd and outplayed. breakaways. All but 0111~ us," Priganc said. "\,Ve'rn Tlw Ma111·lwstPr Spart;.ns Wt'n' stoppnd by thti f~ellr,s growing !Paps and bounds s1·ort>d with thn•P minutPs dnl'Pnsr1 or Kapphahn at thn Pvrrv dav, both as individu­l<'l't in n·gulalion to dPf'PaL 1wt. On tlw winning goal. als ,tnd as a team." tlw BPIIPs 1-0. \\'pcfiwsdiw. 7.awadski ki!'kt>d tho ball Likc1 the Hose-llulrnan 
"I don't think lhl'rc ~as towards the right pust. and game. which the Belles lost anything w1• 1·ould havP tlw ball apptHU'ed to wrnp in the linal minutes. this is a donP about Iha! goal." around tlw insidP of thP g-anw thr BPllrs folt thPy \-VPndv Irvin said. "WP wen• post to drop in tlH' right r.or­should have won. They arl' on h~r and slw just gol n<' r of Llw nt't for thP alrnady looking to thPir nPxt llH·k_v." Spartans goal. g-amn to do just that. They 
Tlw ga11w against tlw Sarah Thomas, fact.' Adrian in a '\11At\ rnn­Spartans markPd Irvin's Zawadski's lPammalP, liad l'Prnncn match on Saturdav, lirst rnllPgial1· miltrh. Irvin t1rvo shots of' thr. five and an: looking for Owir sull1•rt>d a st.ri•ss fracturl' Spartan shots first ronferrncp ,.,in since 1•url~-in the· s1•ason. and As !'or thr lkllcs. ln'iu It'd thn victorv uwr Alma in Uw only r<'Ltmwd lo !hi' l11wup Lill' tc'am with six shots. honw Dpc~wr. and fwgan pra('til"P last l!Pathrr Muth was sorlmd "l think WP playnd with a 
KRISTENE KAAI/The Observer 

W1'PK. II' th1· injury was with l'ivn. while Emilv lot ol' heart today." Priganr aff1•rtin~ twr plav. it was 1-:rchick. also a frl'shman·. said. "t think it -was unl'nrtu­Belles goalie Tia Kapphahn makes a diving save during practice. She had not obvious clu;·ing the l,nislwcl with ttm•P. natl' hnw il nndecl. bul I'm nine saves in the first half in the team's recent loss to Manchester. Saint Mary's lost on a goal scored in the last three minutes. 

"Christ expects 
'ftlli ngs from YOUNG PEOPLE" 
~\. "$;. 

·· --Pope John Paul II 
"Our vows bind us together in community. We commit ourselves to share with one another who we are, what we have and what wedo. Thereby we form a community as did those who first believedJn Christ's resurrection and were possessed by his Spirit. The whole group of believers was unite nd soul." 
( Constitutions of the Congregation of Hfl: 
Join us as our brothers in Holg Cross celebrate their perpetual ptafes$ton. ofvows 
·· ...··· ·, . ~ ·, ··•· ' 
and consecrate themselt,~fc:Qq Cltfist forever: 

ANSWER ~ Vincent Coppola, C.S.C.1li\, \VilU&fo:~':"'~ailey, C.S.C. THECALL \/])/ 
' 
Saturday, September 23, 2000 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
1:30 p.m. 

Kevin M. Russeau, C.S.C. 
• ---.....--.. t, • ,. -? "t • -• 
-••••, ... -•• -· ---•-. ·• ..... i; .. •, ,,. ct .. .. • -----.. 
gamI'. Irvin f'i 11 is IH' d lhr KatiP Cn'<'n and Kristc'n rPally proud or this tf'lll11." 
gnnw with six shots on goal, most ol' llwm br1'al,rnwavs, and with two clos1' ki/ks nrarly getting past 
\1anchPstPr llPtminder 
LauriP Vt>llnPr. VPllnt'r madP 20 savPs on 22 Saint Mary's shots in tlw first hair alrnw. 
BPIIPs goalkPPpPr Tia Kapphahn talliPd nine savPs in llw /ks! hair Stats WPrr' unavailablP !'or parts ol' thn srcond hall' br<·ausP ol' rain damagP to tlw sr·orf' book. 
··t think WP rPally pickPd it up in llw St'rnnd half." Irvin said. "I had a blast. It was su good to bP bal'k. It l'Pels so gTPat tr> l'inally bt' back." 

121 ~outh Niles Avenue (219) 234-9000 South Bend, Indiana 46617 

John J. Bowman General Manager Class of 1977 


Tune into wvfi.nd.edu and Preview ND's New ii'7\Basketball Coach, 
~ Mike Brei 
on the Boneyard this Thursday at 7:45 PM. 


Thursday, September 21, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
Isn't it time your home gave something back to you? 
6 e go/oAPY• 
PRIMEquity Line-of-Credit Loan Low introductory rate! 

9.5%APY• 
Even our regular rate is hard to beat! 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 
219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org 800/522-6611 
Independent of the Univ<'"rsity. . . . . . • 
•Annual Perl'.'entage Rak. Property 1nsurnnce IS required. Not vahd with any other offer. RatE'!:S 
@
subject to change. Consult a. tax advisor regarding the deductibility of ~ntrr_est. A balloon pa~ent ~ IOUUIIIGMS!Mr, will rl'"su\t at maturity. After the six-month introductory period, tiae rate w11l r~vert to the highest LENDER 
CENTER ,o:a SOCIAL CONCERNS 

* The struggle for human rights: resisting economic and political oppression 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Indians beat Red Sox, sweep doubleheader 
Jim Thome followed with an 
Associ.tted Press 
HBI single that gave Cleveland the lead. 
BOSTON Steve Karsay (5-8) got the The Cleveland Indians are win. Rhea! Cormier (2-3) took finding the best route to the the loss after being caught nap­
playoffs mighl be through ping by Vizquel. tough enemy territory. Boston led 3-0 on run-scoring
They beat Pedro Martinez, · doubles by Lou Merloni and an swept a day-night doublehead­RBI single by Brian Daubach er over the Boston Red Sox, 2-1 
before Roberto Alomar made it and 5-4. and jumped a half­3-2 with a two•run single in the game ahead of Oakland in the 
fifth. Vizquel, who had walked, AL wild-card race Wednesday. and Alomar pulled off a double Not even the sight of steal before Hamirez walked. 
Martinez (17-6) on the Fenway 
Cormier replaced Paxton Park mound stopped the Crawford with the bases Indians in the opP:ner as Steve loaded. 
Woodard (2-3) pitched six Vizquel took off from third, shutout innings. In the second while Cormier took his time 
• game. they overcame a 3-0 going into his stretch, and stole deficit with the help of Omar home without a throw. Vizquel's steal of home. Trot Nixon gave Boston a 4-3 When the day began, lead with his 10th homer in the Oakland led Cleveland by a fifth before Cleveland went half-game But the Athletics ahead in the seventh. Cormier split a doubleheader in allowed a single to Lofton and Baltimore to drop into second a walk to Vizquel, and Rich 
place. 
Garces gave up the decisive 
The Red Sox, who have singles to Ramirez and Thome. another doubleheader "I always told these guys one Thursday against the Indians. of these days we were going to 
are reeling. They fell to fourth get him," Indians managerin tho wild card race, four 
Charlie Manuel said. "Pedro games behind Cleveland with pitched Pedro's way today. Our 
11 to play. 
pitching stayed right there with Kenny Lofton had five hits him." and four runs in the double­
Woodard allowed three hits header. Manny Ramirez, shut and no walks and struck out down by Martinez, singled in four. Bob Wickman saved both the tying run in the seventh games, giving him 12 with inning of the s.econd game and Cleveland. 


MONDAYS & THU8$'t)AYS 
,.w~'-~M.••~··i•l2 ~p;H,:-, 
Ulltli41TID BOW~IMG 
.'I;i\$5 PER PtR.$9~ , \;;,~;.&] $HOES EX"fRA 
.• -····<··:···_ · ... k·::-'c:-·-·=·<."·· -? _, •·

• A critical look at US involvement in El Salvador during the civil war and now 
• The call of the Gospel: building the Christian community 
' ' 
· a . een destroved by the .··.· 

ATTENTION
ho, 14-year reside~t of El Salvio 

SOPHOMORES!!!
· ·the tebuilding of the repatriated 

Do you want to get involved in JPW 2001?
rough his youth organizatio1 ·. ··•• 
. ·--~-. ' 

This year's Junior Parents' Weekend committee is looking for a sophomore chairperson. This is your chance to get involved in this exciting event prior to participation next year, so 
* This event is co-sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, APPLY NOW! 
the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies, the Theology Department, and the Catholic Social Traditions Department. **Pick up an application in the Student Activities office (315 LaFortune)** **Return applications and sign up for an interview 

page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday September 21, 2000 

DOROTHY CARTERrThe server Middle hitter Jolie LeBeau spikes in a recent match. The Belles dropped their match to Calvin College in straight games. 

.s;;;; 
(.) 
;§ 
LOWN .s;;;; 0 .!.? (DC :::, :::, 0 
(1)
:E .!: <
a;·
ai :::,
a:, :::,
student "TI E 
OJ "E C Q. 
Q) 
0> 
"tJ 
(1) 
c( ~ !!l. 
-0 7ii 0 j;l 
0 (0 
C 
co Airfares 0> 
(1)
E 
OJ
0 
3i <O Ill 
:::, 
a
~ 
C Eu rail passes "' 
(I) s:: 
0
en Cf)
co 
0
.s;;;; 
C 
(I) 
Q. 
0 
r
More Than i ur
(.) 
0
(I) 
:::,
.!.! 100 Departure Cities 0­
z 
s:: 
0>
(J) 
a.
·c s.:
a.."' 
(l)
Study Abroad .!: 0> 
:0 :::, a 
(1)
Cl 
:::,
C 
0 
"tJ C ~ 
_J 
IC:•. 0 0> 
~ 
0 
en <·· 
c_
"' 0
E :::,­
0 student Universe~
tU 
0>
en :::,
IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT :::,
i l& 
0­
{:!. C 
a3 "' E 0 
:.::; ~ 
en 
~ 
<( 
studentuniverse.com 2: 
800.272.9676 

WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Belles suffer tough loss 
By ALICIA ORTIZ 
Spons Writer 

Jolie LeBPau did not cPle­brate her 21st birthday with a win Tuesday night. 
lnst1-1ad .. the dav was ovPr­shadowed hy a l(;ss to Calvin Colliegr. 
"\i\'e didn·t play as a team,"said rniddll' hitter Le Brau. "it \!ViLS not a good game at all." 
The l3el1Ps lost three straight gamrs to Calvin. with scores of 15-J. 15-2. 15­2. 
"We only had seven points," said Coach Julie Schroedor-Hiek. "with 900 square feet to snrvn, tlrnre is 
• no reason not to gd back in the gamf' and focus." Lost serves wen~ not the only factor in the Bnlles loss. Silence on thP rnurt was deli-. nitelv a conc<'rn. 
"\:VP. -w(~l'I~ quiet on tho 
court," said rightside hitter senior Victoria Butcko, Denise Langolis. "We were defensive spncialist. not quite together last night." "llopel'ully wn can put this 
Focusing their practicPs on behind us and start f'rPsh rommunication and defPnse. against Manchester." thr, Btdlns were preparr.d. Saint Mary's plays at Somr,thing was dr,finil!~ly Manrlwstr.r CollPgr. tonight missing in llolland Tuesday al i µ.m. night "\Vr. havr. a good shot al a 
"Wo havo played llw b('St win," Mr.yr.rs said. "IL should tnams in our conf'erence. bo a good gamr.." almost all in a row." said out­Manrh!~str.r is orw nf' tlw side Angi(' Mcyors. two tPams that Saint Mary's 
Mcy11rs  plays  out­ 
lwrsell' had seven kills  "We have a good shot  s icl r. of' MIAA.  th('  
and  s(1vcn  at a win. It should  " \;\I •~  a r r.  
digs night.  last  be a good game. "  hoping f'or a win," said  
Af'tnr  L,,Br.au.  "I  
continuous  Angie Meyers  kno,,.·  prac­ 
losscs. Tl]('  outside hitter  tice  will  gr.I  
now  0-10  us rr.ady."  
Belles sr.em  S  a  i  n  t  
to havr. lost  Mary's plays  
their opti­ 11PXt  at  

mism. hut at this point thr.rc Manrhnstpr Collr.gr. Thursday is no where to go but up. night. The Spartans enl(\r "It was truly a loss. we did the match with a record of 1­not show up to play." said B. 

ADVANCE YOUR CAREER. FAST. 
Start off your new career managing a SCORE! Educational Center for kids. From there, you'll be trained in sales, marketing and management so that you'll have the entrepreneurial skills to move up quickly. If you want a job where the only thing th9t can slow you down is your own ambition, visit www.scorejobs.com. 

EDUCATIONAL mnrns 
Come check out SCORE! at the career fair on 9/21 & 9/22 
:.;-~ < 

@1997, American Heart Association  Am.erican Heart ~ Association.~ Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke ONE OF THESE CAN CHANGE A THOUSAND LIVES SUPPORT MEDICAL RESEARCH  


000 SYDNEY 2000 0 
-~.f--:-. 
:'.--, ::;'.. 


Thursday, September 21, 2000 page 29 
SOFTBALL 

Australia upsets heavily favored United States in 13 
had won 112 in a row 
Associated Press 
hPading to Sydney and hadn't lost thrne straight 
The U.S. softball team in internationally sanr,­can no longer afford to tioned games sinr:e 198~. worry about rnvenge. The last U.S. loss. 
Lisa FPrnandez gave up beforn this week. had 
a lwo-run homer bePn to Australia at the Thursday as Australia 1998 world champi­ral!iPd in tlrn bottom of onships. 
llrn 13th inning to win 2-1 Tho Americans' only 
and sPnd thP UnitPd loss al tho '96 Olympics Statl'S to a shocking third cam<' when Australia's t'.Ot1s<wutiv0 loss. Joanne Brown homen~d 
FPrnandPz struck Olli off Fernandez with two 
2:i and gavP up just two outs in the 10th to spoil hits. but the Amcrir,ans her pcrft->ct game. WPrn unablr,-to score until That was flnough to Christifl Ambrosi's RBI make Thursday's singlc in the top of the matf'.hup the focus for 13th made it 1-0. both teams. 
1.-crnandez rctirPd tho But the game became first two batters in thP inr.rnasingly important bottom hall' beforp Peta when both teams lost to l•:dPboiw hit it over the Japan -and then the lel't-f'it~ld wall to send tllP Americans lost to China. ,1\ustralian crowd into a which has yet to play fr1,nzy. Australia. 
WhilP the_ Aussies The top four in th·e 
droppPd to thr: ground in eight-team tournament Pxhaustion around homr: advanr:e after the round­platr. thi, Americans robin. retreated to the dugout. But the medal round is 
crying. set up so that the third 
It was the third r,onser:­and fourth place teams utivP U.S. game that was would have to win an sr.orelPss into extra extra game to win the 
innings. and thP third gold medal. that Pndf'd with th<' Having lost to the top dd'r:nding Olympic cham­three teams in the stand­pions in shock. ings. the Americans -
Tbe thn,p-gamP losing heavy favorites coming in streak is a stunning turn­-are likely headed for around !'or a team that fourth. 
GYMNASTICS 

Nemov slips past Wei, takes home all-around gold 
impressive for a guy who's Michael Jackson video. 
Associated Press 

only a senior in high school His only stumble of the and bodes well for the night came on the vault, future of U.S. gymnastics. when he landed short and
Russia's Alexei Nemov is Watch him for one rou­had to take a step forward
going to have a bright, 
tine. and it's easy to

shiny souvenir for his baby see to keep from falling on his why. He's simply better face. Still, the judges gave
bov. 

than everyone else on the him a 9.65, prompting onel3laine Wilson could not 
give the U.S. its first all­floor. I-I is lowest score of fan to yell. "Just give the night was a 9.65 on the Nemov the gold now!" 
around medal since 1984. vault, better than some After he finished his par­
Nemov, who became a 
gymnasts' highest score. allel bars,· his last routine,
father for the first time 
While gymnasts

Sept. 2. on Wednesday won other Nemov appeared to be 
worry about how many flips holding back tears as he
the all-around title that and twists they can throw waved to the cheering
eluded him in Atlanta. He 
into their routines. Nemov crowd. He hugged coach
took the gold with 58.474 remembers that the name Leonid Arkaev and then sat
points. 

of this sport is "artistic down to wait out Yang, who
China's Yang Wci won gymnastics." needed a 9.86~ on th11 pom­
the silver. l'inishing 0.113 
He looks like a trapeze mel horse to pass Nemov.
points behind Nemov. artist on the high bar. Wilson finished just 0.001
Oleksandr Beresh of drawing oohs and aahs points from the bronze
Ukraine t,ook the bronze. 
with his soaring flips. On medal at last fall's world
Five-time national cham­
one. he throv.-s himsPlf high championships, and he T
pion BlainP Wilson finished 
above Lhe bar and dues a

sixth. continuing Amcrir,a's looked su good at the 
somersault, slapping his Olympic, trials that U.S.
all-around drought. The 
thighs in a move that looks coach Peter Kormann
United Statns hasn't won an 
more suited for Cirque du thought he might contend
all-around medal sinr,e 
Soleil than the Olympics. for a gold.
Peter Vidmur's silver in 
On the floor, his favorite But the usually rock-solid
1lJ84. exerr.isP, he moves with gym rat has been out of
Paul Hamm. who per­power and purpose und synch since the games.
formed like a -grizzled vet­makes it look effortless at began. He faltered during
eran for most of the team the same time. ·when he the team competition, as
competition. linally showed does his flares -swinging the United States finished
the jitters· of a 17-year-old. his bodv around on his fifth. He looked more like
He foll off the high bar, his 
hands ~•hile he scissor­his old, nasty self during
first rwent. and made a 
kicks his legs -he throws the all-around, but he had
series of other small mis­
in a little turn on his shoul­just enough bobbles and
takes lO finish 14th. Still. ders that looks like some­wobbles to keep him off the
his finish was mighty 
thing out an early '80s medals podium. I 
I I 
I I I 
J 


page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 21, 2000 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish enter tournament with question marks 

fall competition. ranked 9th in doubles after adjusting parts of their game 
Following Smith and Talarico being knocked out of the NCAA that needed improvement. 
in the 3, 4 and 5 singles spots Doubles Championships in the "Javier is playing well. and 
will most likely be junior Javier first round and finishing the Laflin looks very solid and is a 
Taborga and freshmen newcom­1999-2000 season with a 17-9 more complete player," Bayliss 
ers Luis Haddock and Matt Scott, mark. Taborga and Talarico noted. "Casey is volleying a lot 
while junior Andrew Laflin turnPd a lot of heads last season. more and coming to the net and 
rounds out the squad in the sixth racking up an 8-4 record against he looks like an improved player. 
position. ranked opponents. Brian Farrell looks very good 
"Javier Taborga, Luis Probable starters at the num­and is hitting the ball great, as is 
Iladdock, and Matt Scott will be ber two doubles position for the Bryan Acken." 
three, four and five," Bavliss Irish will be Smith and Haddor.k. No team scores will be record­
said. "I may alternate them alit· followed by a pairing of either ed during this weekend's invita­
tie bit, I'm not sure. Andrew Scott, Farrell. Laflin. senior tional due to rules imposed by 
Laflin has earned the number six Ashok Raju. or junior James the NCAA. Without official 
spot. and Brian Farrell and Malhame. announcements ol' the winners of 
Bryan Acken are the next two The upcoming competition ls dual matches. teams witl be ablf! 
guys. At this point they are the not going to be a time for Notre to record only one playing date 
top eight or so !following Smith Dame to get rid or any rusty play, instead of four. giving more 
and Talarico)." but they rathf'r hop!1 to line-tune opportunity for more season 
A duo Lhal is sun: to hit tho the skills they worked on al'tcr play. However. all individual 
highlight reels this yfiar is the last season came to a close. The matches will be recorded and 
doubles team of Taborga and Irish did not spend their summer taken into account in tho singles 
Talarico who start the sea.son vacation relaxing. but worked on and doubles rankings. 
;:f~/leg,ance 
a Cardinal Health company 
We are looking for ... talented individuals majoring in either Finance or Accounting that have an interest to work in the corporate Finance Setting 
We offer ... 2year Financial Development Program which allows you to experience up to 4different rotations that will further your career Domestic &International Opportunities both during and after the Financial Development Program 
*Resume Drop Dates: September 8-25 Look for us at the Business Career Forum: September 21 -22 VISIT OUR WEBSITE @ WWW.ALLEGIANCE.NET 
By RACHEL BIBER Spom Writer 
Fall may bi-coming soon. but tlw hol competition that wi_ll sur­face during the Tom Fallon Invitaliona.l this wnekend a.t the Eck Tennis Center may cause an unseason­able risP in South Bend tempera­tures. 
Ten teams are rxpPcted to bring their top play~:rs to r.omp1•tc with the Irish nwn·s tennis team during the f'our-d ay battll'. while seven of' the tr.n squads are returning from stints in the 2000 NCAA Championships. The !fold is high­light<id by the likes of 7th-ra.nked Bavlor, 23rd-ranked Michigan, 29th-rankr.d Indiana. and the hnm11town Irish who kir.k-off the year after finishing the 1999­2000 sPason with a 13-11 dual rPcord and a ranking of 34. 
Notre llamP f\nded play in tlrn spring with a CindcrPlla-likP run in the NCAA championships, knocking off 42nd-ranked New Mnxico State in Lhc first round beforn being dcf'cat11d in a tight matrh against thr 2nd-ranked UCL\ Bruins. Irish head coach Bob Bavliss knows that more surpris.ing plots are sure to unfold this season. 
"Wn are going to fool some peopln this year." Bayliss said. 

"We are going to be really good." 
ThP Irish will initiate play in the tournament againsl the Tribe of William and Mary on Thursday. Io the remaining dual matches of the event. Notre Damp is set to match-up against Baylor. Kansas and Indiana State. 
Gone from the Notre Dame lineup is All-American Ryan Sachire. who played an integral role in the success of the team last season. Sachire, who was one of six elite players selectt>d to join the 2000 USA Tennis Collegiate Team ovPr the sum­mer. wrapped up his career with the Irish ranked 11 in singles play, posting a 30-11 record dur­ing his senior year. 
The battle to assume the Irish top position is a new experience for the squad who has been accustomed to the steady play of Sachire. But juniors Casey Smith and Aaron Talarico are not intimidatr.d to mend the big hole created in the lineup by taking over as the numbPr one sing]Ps player. 
"Hight now tentatively Aaron Talariro and Casey Smith hav<1 the top two spots so far," Bayliss said. "Aaron and Casey have looked better than anyone else this season." 
Senior Matt Daly was poised to take over Sachire's duties. but a shoulder injury has sidelined him for this weekend's play. Daly, who played in the number two singles position during most of the 1999-2000 sea.son. faces shoulder surgery that could side­line him for morn than just tht1 


.,, 
Thursday, September 21, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 31 

CROSSWORD 
48 Louie Bums ACROSS 29 Land of Robert 51 Full of chutzpah 1 Nears, with "on" 

9 Animal shelter 30 Dewey 52 Stets 35 Humorous 
13 Paper-folding 53 Roasting
illustrator_ 
platformcreation 

Searle 14 Like a rainbow 54 1968 pitcher36 Not be calm with six 16 Huey 
37 Oscar­consecutive nominated role 

19 Dancing Astaire shutouts 
of 1966

20 "Now I 
38 King's word remember!" 

DOWN
39 Econ. figure 21 Fertility clinic 1·Orient Express stock 42 Latch (onto) 

terminus, once 22 "_do" 43 It may be 
2 Misledwaxed23 Enjoy a rose 3 "Big Brother is 

44 Memories of a

24 Skelton's watching you" 
whirlwind trip, 

Kadiddlehopper writer
maybe 25 Scale tone 4 Ecodisaster
45 38-Down's 26 Tucks away home: Abbr. 5 Besides 
27 Tippler 46 Pipe cleaner 6 Pedro or Paulo 
28 Frau's abode 47 Like sod 7 Well-known, but not well-liked 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE aHuey, Dewey and Louie 
PARA +;.,+-,..+-:::-+=-ZZ
--9 Mike holder

A L E E 
R o o s u s 1 O Makeshift cradle I ---+--+=t-=-11 Hosp. ward 

8+.:-1 12 Unwavering 
15 Gets down to M work 
17 Brother Castor B E and sister Olive 
D A 18 Attacked 
O N 23 Mike holder 24 Kind of skin 
26 Rock that may A D hold fossils 

Where the dining hall gets fruit. 

HOROSCOPE 
Happy Birthday: This will be a year of great l:'rogress for you if you follow through on all the ideas that you want to implement. You will have the drive, the determination and the wherewithal to make things hap­pen if you just stick to your set goals and refuse to be tempted to wast'e time pursuing other people's endeav­ors. It's time to put yomself first Your numbers: 6, 14, 23, 32, 36,41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get down to business and get yourself into shape. Involvement with chil­dren will keep you hopping. Go after your dreams. Use your initiative to get the ball rolling. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your ability to do well professionally is quite evident Spend time working on those hobbies tl:iat you enjoy so much. The people you live with will be hard to understand today. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Talk to friends about your current situa­tion. Valuable advice will be avail­able. Take a long, hard look at your­self and make the necessary and applicable alterations. 00 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Trav­39 Tongue, 44 stiff eling about will be very hectic for you anatomically today. Elders may need to lean on
46 7th-century date 
you for assistance. It is always best to
40 Cooking.,agent 
avoid confrontations with relatives.

47 Relig. leaders 
41 "The Scarlet 0000 Letter'' woman 49 Tax form info: LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will Abbr. dazzle others with your colorful sto­
43 Doesn't wear 

ries. You love the limelight, and the 
well 50 Kind of care 
chance to capture new friends and 
lovers will be yours. Your confidence 
will enable you to influence those 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Puzzle by Mark Diehl 
27 Longtime "Today'' show personality 29 Contractor's info 30 Like "Othello" 31 Continues, after 
a fashion 32 Nebulous 33 Critically injure 34 Jean Valjean, at 
the start of "Les Miserables" 38 Overseas carrier 
TYLER 
WHATELY 
EUGENIA LAST 

who could further your career. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
can make some very favorable 
changes. Use your wit and charm to 
enhance your reputation. Social gath­
erings will be to your advantage. 
Your precise attitude will attract oi:h­
ers. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take 
heed of the advice that you've been 
given. You will be experiencing 
changes in your home environment. 
Acceptance will be the key to getting 
through a period of uncertainty. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Investments can be lucrative, but they must also be conservative. Your pro­fessional goals can be achieved if you're willin.e; to put in the time and effort that will be required. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You must work at getting ahead in your chosen industry. You will have the fortitude to get involved in com­petitive sports and self-improvement projects. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Sudden good fortune will be yours if you're willing to take a chance. Don't overspend on luxury items or on entertainment. You will have the opportunity to take care of an elder' s personal papers. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Your mate may overreact to your per­sonal situation. You will have to be more affectionate with him or her if you wish to keep this insecure lover. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have the ability to encourage col­leagues. Your creative approach to life will be inspiring to otliers. Your per­sonal partner may get angry if you have neglected him or her. 000 
are available by touch-tone phone: Birthday Baby: You were born with what it takes to be great. Don't let your 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). lazy side hold you back from accoml'lishing all that you're capable of. You are a wanderei; always looking for something different. You want to try new things
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
in search of fame and fortune.
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
(Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

www.eugenialast.com.) 
.. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/

11ora•,••••, Sperfs lleelfend 
MEN'S SOCCER Thurs v. #22 Loyola Marymount 7:00pm FRI v. SETON HALL 7:30pm 

Golden Dome Invitational
* First JOO students receive a free ND futbol t-shirt! Fri v. Wyoming 7:00pm
SUN v. #2 UCONN 1:00pm 

*Students, get a coupon for a ii }WOMEN'S SOCCER 
FREE 6" BLIMPIE'S SUB! 
* Chance to win CHICAGO
SUN v. PITT 3:00pm 

BEARS TICKETS! 
*Students, attend any soccer game and get a FREE 6" SUB this weekend at BLIMP/E's/ at v. #4 Colorado State 7:00pm 
SOCCER #24VOLLEYBALL 



Chaos ensues 
71ie Cavanaugh Chaos take on the Phoxes of Pangborn tonight at Stepan Field. 
page 24
PORTS 

page 32 OBSERVER Thursday, September 21, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish move to No. I as Tar Heels stumble to No. 4 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
NSCAA Women's Soccer Poll
.\pons Writer 
team record point~
It's official Notrn Danw has tlw bPst 
1 NOTRE DAME 7-0-0 295 
worn1'11's soct·pr team in tht• rountrv 
2 Clemson 8·0-0 285 
accordin~ lo th<~ lawst National Sorcf'0 r 
3 Nebraska 8-0-0 281 
Coarlws ,.\ssoriation of i\m!'rica !'oil. 
4 North Carolina 8·1·0 264 
Tlw Irish recPived 295 points in tlw 
5 Stanford 5·1·0 252 
lat!'Sl poll to placP them ·1 () points 
6 UCLA 6-1-0 237 
ahead ol' Sf'cond-plur(' ClPmson. 5-2-1 224
7 Penn State "It's c·t~rtainly a special mnm11nt for 8 Duke 6·0·0 213 NotrP Danw soccnr, but Wf' hope that 9 Hartford 5-1-0 192 tlrnrn ,tr<' many morn to come this sPa­10 Texas A&M 5-3-0 185 son." h!'ad rn,lrh Handy W1tldrum said 11 California 7·0·0 182 in a prPpar!'d statemnnt. 12 KentucJ<v 7-1-0 176 The Irish ascended to the No. I 13 Virginia 4-3·0 155 rank in gs after two shutout victorirs 14 Portland 7-1•0 132 against. No. 14 Portland und No. 15 15 Washington 7-1-0 123 Washington this werkP.nd. Last week, 
16 Harvard 2-1·0 108 No. 2 Cl<•mson knorked off former No. 
17 Southern Methodist 5·2·0 89 1 North Carolina to open the top spot 18 Florida State 5'4-0 88 
19 Santa Clara 4·3•0 86
l'or Notrt' Dame. 
20 Wake Forest 5·2·0 49
/\!though Waldrum called the new 
21 Maryland 4-4-0 48
ranking a "tremendous honor," the 
22 Boston College 6·2,0 47
team docs nol talk about rankings, 
23 Southern California 6·1·0 38
acrnrding to sophornorn midfielder 
24 Michigan 3~3-0 34
Ashley Dryer. 
25 Arizona State 7·0·0 22
"We try not to focus on it." she said. 
25 Connecticut 3-3·1 22
"We still have a lot of stuff we need to do." other teams reCeiving votes: Missouri, Senior captain Anne Makinen said Marquette, West Virginia, BYU, Furman, William & she cares littk about the rankings. She Mary, Purdue. 

--
did not even find out the Irish were ranked No. 1 until reached for com­nwnt Wednesday night. 
Senior Meotis Erikson moves the ball during the Aug. 27 6-0 win over
some people vvho thought -justifiably
"WP don't really talk about rankings," 

so -that we might be down a little bit Detroit. The Irish are now ranked No. 1 in the nation. 
she said. "I don't pnrsonally follow 
after graduating five starters," 

In the semifinals last year, the Irish Notes
rankings. They don't matter in the 
Waldrum said.

end." knocked off the No. 1 and previous-. Senior captain Kerri Bakker was 
The lowered expectations from peo­

Waldrum said the No. I ranking is ly unbeaten Santa Clara Broncos. named Big East defnnsivo pluyor of thr 
ple outside the program only motivated 

Dryer said the Irish must avoid get-week. The senior from Washington.
espel'ially impressiV!' considering how 
the Irish even more. Dryer said. 

ting cocky as the season progress-N.J .. helped the Irish post a pair of
much tlw Irish lost !'rom last year's 
"Everybody did basically write us off 

es. shutouts against Washington and
national runnPr-up team. Notre\ Dame 
but we knew W<' had good freshmen

had to rl'placP f'ivP starters from last "When vou lose. it kind of builds Portland. This is tlrn third week in a 
coming in and good returning players,"

yPar's Lt'alll -including lfw most pro­you drnr'acter," she said. "But il' row that an Irish playor has won Big
Dryer said. "I think our team always 

you always win you have to be East defensive player of the week.
lifir scorPr in Irish history. Jenny 
thought we could dn it."

Str·piffnr. carel'ul to rnalizr, that vou can be Senior captain Kelly Lindsoy was 
Ttw Irish an~ also well aware of the 

beatfrn and you don't ~vant to be namP.d Big East defon:Sive playor of the
"Tlw phtyPrs dl'sPrVP a lot o!' cn~dit, 
dangers of being No. 1 and unbr,atcrn.

bPC'.HUS!' we'vr kind of snuf'k up on beaten at th11 ond of the season." week the previous two weeks. 

VOLLEYBALL 

Netters take on No. 22 Loyola Marymount tonight 
• Irish prepare for Golden Dome  StaL1, and Wyoming this wnek­end in the GoldPn Dome Invitational.  by bPing named the Most Valuablr, Player while senior Denisr, Boylan and llomhack  Notre Dame has the upper hand with a win in the 1994 Golden Dome Invitational 115­ leads Wyoming this season with 170 kills and 141 digs while Melody rriehauf will  
Invite this weekend  Notre Dame is coming off a  were  also named  to  the all­ 6, 15-4, 15-8). Tim Lions only  also provide an Irish challengr,  
sweep  of  tournament team. Sophomore  loss this year was  to  Duke in  with 69 blocks and 138 kills in  
the  Ladv  Janie  Aldorr.te  t  h  e  :woo.  
..  By RACHAEL PROTZMAN Spons Wri{cr  Seminol;1 Volkyball  earned best defensive special­ "This is a huge weekend  Blimpie­/lloosier  Colorado State holds the upper hand with two previous  
NotrP l}anw vol lny bal I will play No. 22 Loyola ~larymounL tonight as it prepares for ttw ColdPn DomP Invitational which will bP h1•lcl at the Joyce CPntPr this WPf'krnd. AIL11011gh tlrn No. 24 Irish will l'af'P Loyola Marymount today, which also participates in this Wl'<'kl'nd's tournnnwnl.  Uassic in Tall-ahas­see, Fla., where' it toppP.d Florida KreherI\ & M . Florida State and Samf'ord /'or the tournanwnt title. .lu-nior Kristy Krrher led the  ist honors l'or the weekend. "This is a huge weekend for us." said Alderete. "It was definitely good for us to come out with three wins last weekend and we were able to get a  for us. It was definitely good.for us to come out with three wins last weekend." Janie Aldrete Irish sophomore  Invita­tional II. Notre Damo will f' a C C Wyoming in its first match of' the tour­n am P n t action on  wins ovflr the Irish and will look for the third when thcv f'are Notre Dame al 7 p.m. on Saturday. The Hams arn cur­rently 11-1 on the season with Courtney Cox leading the team with 173 kills. "Wr.'re just going to takP it one match at a Lime. one ganrn at a timr, in P.VPry matrh and Lake the opportunities that  
1hc' match is not part of the tournamPnl a('lion. 1\Jotre llanw will l'aci-No. 4 Colorado  Irish in the nrntrh against Florida State with 1') kills whiln MarciP. Bomhack added  bunch of peoplr. in." Loyola Marymount is rentlv 8-1 as it faces the  cur­lrish  Friday beginning al 7 p.m. The Cowgirls are 6-7 with tho Irish earning a win aftr,r thrir  we're given," Aldcretr. said. Today's game against Loyola Marymount will take place in  
1]. Krnlwr led the tournanrnnt  for the second time.  first meeting. Jamie  Burke  the Joyce C:enter at 7 p.m.  

ar ITA National Clay ar Ivfanchcscer College • Cross Country at Adrian
SPORTS (ifi':1 Courts s(@ Today, 7 p.m. National Catholic Invite SJJ Saturday, noon.•,.;:::::::~• 
Today-Sunday Friday, 5 p.m. 
ATA

~ 
Golf vs. Loyola Maryrnou111 vs. Seton Hall 
at Michigan State 

at Kalamazoo '(@ Today, 7 p.m. ~ Friday, 7:30 p.m 
ttJ 
,.... Saturday, 3:30 p.m. 

GLANCE Today, l p.m ~ 
• 






