
Don't just do it? 
Nike-affiliated schools joining the ~1/RC may lose Nike sponsorship. 
News . page 2 

VOLXX:Xlll N0.116 
Saint Mary's reps 
to help shape fledgling WRC 
By MOLLY Mc\'OY S,1111! :-.t.irv·s Editor 
,\s Saint Mary"s Col!Pg'<' takns its first st<'p in 
tlw fight against sweatshops, repr<'SPntatives 
from ttw Coll1•g1• will lravl'I to tlH' Worker 
!lights Consnrl.ium founding confprnn1•p this 
WPck1•11d. 
Tlw collPgP joi1wd tlw Consortium on :Vlarch 
29. HPpn•sPntativPs l'rnm tlw inv,1stigative work­ing group on swPatshops will at1('1Hl tlw first nw1•ting nf the consortium this Friday in l\,ew Yori-: Cilv. 
"This ·\\l'Pkf'IHI. tlw \\'l{C \-\·ill beconw a reality and will lwgin its task or PmpowPring work(1rs l;> improvt' conditions in factoriPs around the world." said Kati(• l'oyntPr. a junior attnnding tl11• conl'Pri·nn•. "As a founding 111Pll1bPr and conr(•rPnn' parliripant. Saint Mary's has the opportunity to lwlp shap<' thP way in which the WHC: will 01wratn." 
To claLP. 28 ('o!!PgPs and univPrsiti<\S haV(\ j1Ji1wrl t\w consortium with Saint Mary's. This WPPk••1Hl's ror1f.-rr-1H'<! \rill snrvP a number of inrormational and administrativt' purposes. C:u1-r<'nt WHC mnmll<'rs will <'IP,·t tlw govPrning board. :\r·1·orcli11g to tlw l>ylaws of tlw \VHC, the gm·r•rning board will rnnsist ol' thrPt' voting com-
see WRC!page 6 
-=--=--=--=--=--=-------~ 
Aplea for debt relief 
A law School alumnus encourages support for a loan forgiveness program at Notre Dame. 

Viewpoint . page 15 

Thursday 
APRIL 6, 2000 

THE 

. ND and SMC volunteers help El Buen Vecino impact families 
By ERIN LaRUFFA ,\ssisc,1111 :-icws hlitm 
01w yPar ago. a 2-and-a-ha!J' ~ ~-par old boy wanr!Prnd away from his South BPnd homn. quilP rurious about Uw cars Im saw \\·hizzing by him. 
IIP walk<'d about thnw blm·ks lwl'orl' a woman found him standing tH•ar tlw sidn or tlw road. B,•causQ slw spok<' only b1glisb and lw spokn only Spanish, she had lo tak1! him to Llw polir.P sl,Ltion. Police olTi­!'f'rs wen' Pvnntuallv able lo !'ind his parPnt.s -in;migrant.s from MPxiro who spok1• no l!nglish. AulhoritiPs rhargNI tlw par<'nls will! 1wglm:t and look tlH• boy away f'rom tlwm. 
Tlw l'amily was 1ivP1llually ahlP to !"('gain custody of the child. in part through tlw lwlp of Sara ltabt\r. 
!laht'r. a Cuban immigrant, has worked for ovPr 30 vears vvilh llispanirs in the U~1itNI Stall's. Eighl years ago, she founckd Fl BuPn V1·rino. whid1 nwans "Tlw Cood N(•iglllrnr." ll is now locatnd in its nwn build­ing in South !fond and offf'rs 1111mt-rous programs to f'amiliPs in tfw an'a. including tutoring in English and assistancP filling out job applications. 
"I want to help our communi­ty to lwllPr the lifo of' our fami­1i,1s," said Haber. "El Buen Vecino is uniqLw in tlw commu­nity bncausc fitl is the only agP111·y that assists the low inro Ill<' fa m iii cs -mostlv llispanics -that come to t,i;1 community ... The family needs all tlw support [ill can get." 
Haber runs much of the orga­nization lwrsPlf. but also relins on tlw assistance of student vol­untPClrS from Notrf' Dame and Saint Marv's. 
Nolf!\ bamn junior Susan Palladino decided to st>rve at El Buen Vecino at the beginning-of her sophomorn year after spending time in Mexico. She has voluntnerod on a weekly basis over sinco. 
"Tho plani is never boring • thNP's always sonwthing going on. It's always so busy that your hcad spins on somn days,., Pa.ll:idino said. 
At first, Palladino primarily tutored adults and played ganrns with childrnn. This year she is involved in program administration and grant writ­ing. Whnn slw starlnd volun­t,~Ning at El Ruen VPr:ino. slw krH'\-V slrn wanted to be a busi­ness major hut dtcl not have a. spcci f'i c carcic r goal. Art<' r 
i -:-HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Conference explores pro-life movement 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Saint M,iry\ News Editor 
Taking a rPvolutionary stand in thl' pro-lil'n movement at the colle­giate IPvel, thc1 Hight to Liff> duhs or Notre Dame an<l Saint Mary's will host a con­f'nr1·ncC' ontitled "Our Dutv to S(•rvP, Our· Call to Lead" this wePkend. 
"This is the first time any­one has ever tried to host a national colle­giate pro-life confernnce." said Emily Moriarty, president of Saint Mary's Right to Lif'P. "It's really exciting that we'rp a part of this." 
!\1oriarty and Hight to Liff' mem­bc r Hachrl Hichmond are co­chairing llrn event. U.S. Hcprpsontative Chris Smith (N.J. ), Co-Chairman or the II oust-l'ro-Lifo Caucus, will deliver tlrn keynote address on Friday night in {vhich hP will discuss pro-lifo lcadorship and human rights abuses. A strong advocatP of human rights and d1ild lwalth. Smith is kncnvn for his kgislative victories banning overseas groups that pPrl'orm and promote abortion from receiving federal family planning funding. Smith has also advocated legisla­tion for maternal and child wel­f'arP in thn dovp\oping world and lrns initiated legislative nwasures dealing with adoption and mater­nal health. 

"A lot of people think that pro­1if'crs are oxtrnmists," Moriarty. said. "But that's not what tlrn pn;. life movPment is about." 
Several other noted mmnbers of the pro-lifo community will also speak at tlw ronferPncc. 
Janel Smith, professor of philos­ophy at the University of Dallas, will speak on "Abortion, Contraception and Our Culture" and present pro-life arguments against the cnntraceptivo mentali­tv. Smith founded tho Women's (:are crisis pregnancy network in South Bend in 1984. 
"We had a meeting to try to find different pro-life leaders who had a Christian focus.'· Richmond said of the sele('tfon procf)SS for speak­
ers. 
Father Matthew llabiger. President Emeritus and Chairman or the Board of Iluman Life International. ·will give a talk on "Constructing a Culture of Life," lo tnacb studPnts how to sprnad thn pro-!ife movement in society. lluman Life International is the 

largest pro-lil'n organization in the world. 
"It's really good that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are taking the lead in this and undPrscoring how 
"Our Duty 
to Serve, Our Call to Lead" 
. 
Series of pro-life lectures 

. 
Friday through Sunday 

. 
College of Business Administration 


See Also 
"House bans 'partial-birth' abortions" 
page 9 
Person." 
important all life is at all stagl's, born and unborn, Moriarty said. 
Dr. John Crosby. profpssor of' philosophy and Chairman of Graduate Philosophy at Franciscan University of Stcubcnvilln. Ohio, will address the "Dignity of Human Pnrsons, Both Born and Unborn," pursu­ing the abortion debate f'rom a philosophical context. Crosby is the author· of "ThP St•lfhoocl of thP lluman 

FathPr Joseph Iloward. director uf' the /\moriran BioP!hics Advisory CommittPP. will f.Ntch 
see PRO-LIFE/page 4 

Students serve as 'good neighbors' to local community 

working there, she decided to attuned into the communilv, pursue management of non­whcrn often times tho businrss profit organizations. world falls short." 
"I think working there n1ally "Susan has been a daught!'r solidifind my direction," to me," llabcr said. "It's amaz­Palladino said. "The non-profit ing how she's helpnd me." world ha.s a diffPrm1t pace than Otlrnr resi(\pnts of \'al!a.dino's the business world. Thcy'rn dorm, lluwurd llall, often vol­
untcer at the organization alongside hnr. Campus groups. such as Circle K, send volun­lt•<ws evmy wnck. Tlwrn is also on(1 intnrn from NotrP Dame who is earning credit l'or his work at El Buen Vecino, and 
see VECINO/page 6 

The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, April 6, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Apple Juice 
"Why can't v.e name her apple juice. Mom? It's my favorite drink and I think it's a ~reat 
,, 
name 

It has been 20 years since my sister request­ed to name me Apple JuicP. I'm not exar.tly sure of her reasoning, but 
thank God my parents did not to give in to her plead­ing. 
"Oh no! Elizabeth! l can't get the wagon to stop! We're definitely going to fly off the bridge into the creek!" I don· t understand how 12 yt>ars have pass('d since my sistr>.r and I decid­


ed to take our little red Laura Rompf wagon and go-earl down the huge hill 011 RedLud La1m. 
,1ssistant
"Mom I Laura poured glue 

News Editor 
in my hair! It's gross and she's laughing!" It's hard to believe that it's been almost eight years since I endf'd a fight with my sister by opening an Elmer's bottle and emptying it in her hair. 
"Uh, Elizabeth ... I'm not surn how to ltell you this, but my head's bleeding -BAD. The -sterno speaker must've knocked me in the head 
when it foll from up there." 

Can someone please explain to me how four years has nown by since l visited my sister, atlf;nded a fnishman dorm party and ended up with staple stitches in my head? 
For 20 years now l have fought with, ynllcd at and even rcst~nted my sistnr. We've grown apart and back together again, We've shared a room, telephone privileges and even Michael Thompson. tlw boy that gav<' both Elizabeth and I onr /irsL kiss on the check. There was a tinrn in mv lifP I never could have im·agined becoming· frinnds \Vilh my sister, much less best frie11ds. 
For 18 years. I did Merything possible lo avoid the path slw took. She played bask1~tball; I was a r.hP1'rl1\ader. Sim was smart: I actRd clum b. She liste1wd to rock; I listened to coun­
trv. 

:!\nd, vr.t now in about a month, I will gi•t tlrn sP.paration rrom Elizabeth I wanted for so long. She will graduatP. from Notre Dame, move on to her real life, and WC will sec each other only <luring short visits and holidays. 
I realize from this momPnt on, I will 111wPr !ive dowu tlw hallway from Elizab1cth and most likelv I won't even live in the same city. Now the day has come when I wish morn than any­thing that Elizabeth could continue living on this same campus. For the first time in my life, I am so proud to follow hor footsteps. 
Last werk in u1rn of my classes my teachN acricl<mtally called me 'Elizabeth.' That alone was the singlf' mason I almost did not attnnd '\loln' Dame. I was sick of the comparisons. And yN last Tuestlay, Leiug called the wrong nanw did not bothc•r me at all. For the first time in my lifo. l took it as a compliment. as if I'd been told l resembled a famous model. 
Elizabeth, I've always complainod about fol­lowing your foutsteµs and what a burden it's bPen on my life. But now I'd lik<i to thank you. Thank you f'or everything. Thank you l'or always letting mP tag along and welcoming me into your world. Thank you for always listening and giving sound advice. 
Most of' all, thnnk· you for letting mn follow your l'ootstt'ps. It's a womlnrful path you've lcl't behind 
And Elizabeth'! You can Pvcn call me Apple Juice> if you want. 
J'he l'ieu•s expressed in the Inside Column are those(~{ the author and not necessarily tlwse ,~{ The Ohserl'er. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Erin LaRutfa  Man Nania  
Kelly Hager  Graphics  
Courrney Boyle  Jose Cuellar  
Sports  Production  
Tim Casey  Noah Amstadrer  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Lila Hughey  Sh,mnon Bennett  

The Oh.,en·er !USPS 59'/ 2-4000) i, p11bli,hrd Munday rhmugh Friday cx1.:c:pr <lming ex;1111 and \'ac:uinn pl'riods. The Oh~erver is ,1 membt"r of tht A~..,od.ul'd Prt:'.'i!t. Al! rc.:producrion right.., ;ire n:~el'ved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Lecture: "Thi-' Prohlem  . Lecture: "New  . Event: .Junior Mom's  . Event: .Junior Mom's  
of Stale ­ 13uil<ling in  Challenges !'or Urban  Wcwkend; Saint Mary's  Weekend; Saint Mary's  
Postcommunisrn," Veirnlin  GovPrnance in a Global  . Event: 5K, 10K, plus 2­ . Concert: Notrn Damn  
(;arvny. Kellogg Visiting- Context;" Saskia Sasscn;  mile walk; Pro.cf\ods bHnc­ Coilogiurn Musieum:  
Fellow; 12:30 p.m.  3 p.m.: l!Psburgh  fit Christmas in April:  8 p.m.;  Basil!ica ol' the  
llesburgh Center  Auditorium  11 a.m.; Bogister in  Sacred Heart  
. Event: Acoustic C.afe;  u.dvance at llolrs  
9 p.m.; LaFortune  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Nike contracts threatened by WRC 
MINNFAPOLIS, Minn. the factnrins," PPstridgn said. 
University o/' Millnesota President 
"What you're saying with tlw WHC Mark Yudofs decision last month to is that wn don't know how to do that." _join the Workor Hights Consorlium So far Brown, a founding WHC might twentually lighten the momber, is tho only institution to /'ace, University's por.kntbook hy morn than repercussions hecausp ol' their just the price o/' WRC dues. involvemcnl. 
Last Thursday, Nike tt1rminated its Pestridge said Nikfl will dnal with contract with Brown University after each univnrsity on a per contract scbool officials tried to renegotiatti basis. But tho University· or tlrnir contract in accordance with llw they say (T<\at.es distrust lJNw(itm all MinnPsota, whoso mm1's and wom­\VRC code of conduct. a set ol' stan­inv(:sLcd parties. en's basketball and hockey teams and dards championf'd by students. Simon Pnstridge, Nike's labor prnc­foothall tPam all sport. uniforms bear­sweatshop activists ancl organized ticos manager. says the corporation ing the company's trademark swoosh, labor groups nationwide. prnl'ers their membnrship in tho !;air could lind itself in th1\ samn precari­
In anticipation of this Friday's Labor Association, an altPrnal.ive ous position oncP the WHC is fully founding WHC meeting, 1.he move has labor-monitoring group criticized by established. raised more than a fow eyebrows at activists and organiwd labor for Ai issw•, in part. is ilw structure of' universities nationwide. r,atering too heavily to corporatn each individual contrart. Brown 
Nike ollicials say the WHC is coun­intenists. University was in tho sec1111d year or a terproductive bncause r:orporalions "Wp've b<wn involved with thcs11 t.hrnn-yt•ar dnal that providncl Pquip­are not allowed to sit at the consor­labor issLws for c1 long lime, and Wf' ment lo tlwir nwn's horkPy tParn at tium's hargaining table\, an exclusion know how lo makP improvcm1\11ts in wholesalP prices. 
Fruit fly genome found 
UA students protest to join WRC 
TUSCON, Ariz.
BERKELEY, Calif'. 

Univ1H·sitv or Arizona Students Against SwPatslwps
University of' Calil'ornia-Hnrk1di>y scientists anno11111'.r1d 
nwm!Jl'rs k0ickPd off tlwir thrPn-day 1•clucational forum
last wrn'k in the journal Scioncc that they havn suct·Pcd­
-which will includn sp11 1Hli11g nights in front or tho
cd in mapping the vast majority of' llw f'ruit 11y g(•nomn 
administration building. "This is not a sit-in," S/\S prPsi­
-a success which resoardwrs s11id could lrnlp lhem 
dtml and spokeswoman Lydia Lcst(~r said. "Wc'rp hnr!' 
curn human diseasPs. ln sol\•ing tlw map of' tlw 
lmcaus11 wt' want tho univ('rsity to join Lim vvm: now." In
drosophila nrnlanogastPr gonomc, rnscarchors <.liscov­
cl'll'bralion of National SiudPnt-Labor Solidarity Day,
Pred thnl many of thoir g-erws are similar lo thosn in 
SAS set up a "Collngo ol'Worknrs' Hights" booth. inform­
humans and that much of tlw sanrn ger11\lic material 
ing tlrn campus on work1ws' rights and thPir push for U/\ 
appnars in both organisms. A g1monw is all of the DNt\ 
lo join tl1p Worknr Highl-; Consortium, a group mad(i up
in a sHt. of ('ht·omosomns, Tho Bnrknlny Drosophila 
or :15 universities and non-governmental organizations
Geno111.1i Project., hnad11d Ly UC Berk11l1!y professor 
that plans to monitor l'actorins. UA is a member of' 
Cierald Hubin, is part of a 11/tlionwicl(• nlfort lo map I.he 
another group, the Fair Labor Organization, which
cntirn genome of' S<'veral model organisms. The same sd 
includPs corporations. non-governnwntal org,1 nizations
of hundrnds of scinntists from around thn nation 
and a university rt1fH'CS<'11tativei. Timm an~ more than
annoum:(~d last ynar that they had completml sequenc­
I;{() univnrsitins in the FLA, which is undPr tlH' U.S.
ing the full fruit 11y ge11onw. In part bm:ausn or its lust 
Dnpartmcmt or Labor. In almost 90 degn1t~ wcatlwr. SAS
replication cycl(', the f'ruit fly has long hnPn usPd as a 
memlmrs chanted, totod signs and carrind out various
model organism in biology, and was used to lay many ol' 
activitins, such as showing WHC support to U/\ l'n•sidr>nt
llrn foundations for tho lil'!d or gcnotics. For nxampl1\, 
Peter Likins through signing ribhons to tie 011 thn chain­
the l'ruit fly was used in 191 (1 lo prove that g11nes lay on 
link l'cnc11 nnxt to the administration building.
chromosomes. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
er® orecast or noon, hursday, Apr. 6.
5 Day South Hcnd Forecast 
l\n:uWcalh~r("'forecast for daytime comlititin~ am! high 1cmpera1tires 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
50
H L 
70s

Thursday ~ 58 41 
'.'/@

Friday cCJ, 61 40 
80s ,~Os '/ 80s IOO~s·10s .~:-.r­
__.r, 
41\1..-80s 

, a ~J
Saturday ~ 48 36 
20s 
JOH~~ 
FRONTS:
~ 40s

Sunday c==1 54 33 
....-T' ..&.....&. .......... 

© 2000 AccuWeather, Inc, COLD WARM STATIONARY 
--------------~ 
Pre-ssure: 
. 
-;c;.:.·:w:ri
,;<:_ ~.-··"'

CJ D D D
Monday ~ 65 45 
® © . .

Hi h Low loud Cloud 
~ 
Atlanta 77 55 La Porte 59 40 Portland 54 39 Baltimore 71 51 Las Vegas 85 60 Rochester 53 36 Boston 61 50 Milwaukee 61 37 Sacramento 72 47
~QQC~~ ~ u 
,. ''' ~ . '.,'' ..:.. . .;. ·:• --­
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 60 43 New York 64 50 Tampa 79 55 Via Associa/ed Press Graph1csNet Houston 83 67 Philadelphia 69 51 Wash DC 72 54 

Thursday, April 6, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
==========-=-================================================================================================= 
Blood drive 
honors 

Seattle girl 
Ohscncr Staff Report 
Tlin Arnold Air So!'intv is spo11sori11g a blood driV<\ t<;day in l.ahlrlun<' Ballroom from CJ 
a.m. lo :~::10 p.111. in Llw name or Patty 
Blood drive Collins. [t S11 a tlI " g i r I S LI f' f' (' r i 11 g 
. Today, 9 a.m. from a rar<~ form ol' liver
to 3:30 p.m. 
i:11 nnir. 

. LaFortune 
Collins' 

Ballroom parnnts, Bill 
and Kathy.

. Sponsored by 
graduatnd 

Arnorold Air 
from Notre Damn and

Society in name 
Saint Mary's

ol young cancer 
rcs1wrtiv1dy 

patient and ar<' orga­nizing blood driv<'s nation­
wid<• to rais<' 1,000 pints of blood in llw girl's 1rnm<'. Sho was diag110s('(I with t.hc canrc•r in S<'ptPmlwr. and has rncPivPd sPvPral blood transfusions. 
Thirty studnnls gavt-a pint al 
an ,\rnold /\ir Socielv driw for 
Collins on Nov. l1. l!J!J9. 
Organizr·rs <'Xpr~ct SO studnnls 
tomorrow. Nurs,•s will 1·omP 
f'rnm the South lknd i\fodirnl 
1:ou ndation Blood l{ank to 
draw tlw blood. 
Most 1woplP in good hnalth 
who ar<' morP than 17 V<\ars 
old and \nigh at l,•ast I l 0 
pounds are eligible to donate. 
Students who would likn to 
du so hut c,rnnol com11 tomor­
row can contact the South 
BPnd Medical Foundation 
Blood Bank Monday through 
Saturday downtown at 234­
11 S7 or in Mishawaka at 273­
8879. 
csc 

Appalachia Seminar 
STUDENT SENATE 
New officers debate parliamentarian nomination 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Last night's Student S<rnato 11Hrnting was tlrn fil'st for tlrn 1ww o!Ticers and vice prosidnnt Brook11 Norton. Although Lim agenda includPd very fow itnms. tlw meeting lasted nearly two hours dun to a lengthy debate over the nomination for parliamnntarian. 
''I'm not sum whv tlrnrn is so much df1bale ovPr a simpl~1 nomination ror an offico like parliamontarian,'' said for­mer .Judicial Council prnsiclent K<'lly Folks. Slw continurid by advising new sPnalors that this type of debate for a routine nomination was "not normal." 
EarliPr in llrn week. current council prnsiclf'nt Tony Wag1rnr had nomi.nated John Osborn. Board of Trustees Chair, as parlianrnntarian. 
"Th<irn wPr1~ two applic·ants for the position. We carnf'ully mad over the applications, condtl('tnd intervicws and d<•c·id<'d .John would lw best for the position. IL was a hard decision to 111akn bn<·ause both candidat<'S WC'rn qualif'ic,d. llowewlr, John brought some e>XpPrinncn oulsid11 studm1l govcrnmPnt and Lh<'n' is thn argunwnt that student governnwnl simply rnplicatns its<df, so wn thought it would be good lo have a f'rnsh f'ar<'," Wagner _said. 
Somo sPnators thought that Paul 
Slad11k, fonrnir St. Edward's !tall sena­
tor. the othnr applicant, was better 
qualified for thn position. 
''Wn have a duty as an oversight group lo just not simply stamp every­thing that C'.0nws across our desk," said J\udra Ilagan. Pasqucrilla Wnst sena­tor. 
"If a nominen is not qualified, we 
should reject the nomination," said 
Katie Thompson, the McGlinn senator. 
"I knnw as a new senator. I may not 
know the constitution well. but it is the 
parliamflntarian's job to know it inti­
mately and I think it would be better to 
have somnone who actually worked on 
putting this constitution together." 
llownver. several senators disagreed. 
"I do not know [Osborn] well° al all, but he seems extremely intelligent and qualified for this position," said Grant Gholson, Keenan senator. "If we can get anyone to do this job, I think that is good. l think we should respect the nomination, I do not see any reason to reject it. lfo seems willing to learn and it will not be hard to get the rules 

down." 

NEED: LEADERS FOR 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
TASK FORCE 
The Appalachia Seminar is currently seeking members to join the Appalachia Task Force for the 2000-2001 school year. The Task Force consists of eight undergraduate students who form a leadership team responsible for planning, implementing, and creating new opportunities within the Appalachia Seminar. The Task Force is dedi­cated to experiential learning as a means to enhance higher education. We are in need of interested, enthusiastic, and committed persons to join us. 
If you have participated in the Appalachia Seminar, please consider applying to the Appalachia Task Force. 
APPLICATIONS: Now available at the Center for Social Concerns 
Applications are due: Monday, April 10, 2000 
For further information: 
Rose Domingo, Task Force Chairperson, 4-3960 
Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Director, 1-5293 
Others agreed. 
"We're question­ing a judicial coun­cil decision here. Personally, I think we shoulrl respect other parts of the . student union." Luciana Heali, 
Lewis llall senator. 
"I know John 
Osborn very well 
and I can attest to 
the quality of his 
character," said 
Hyan Becker. Zahm 
hall senator. "lie is 
dedicated and does 
care a great deal 
about student gov­
ernment. He wants 
to stay involved and 
I feel this is a per­
fect way. I am confi­
dent he can serve in 
this task." 
The recent 
The Ian 
and most po 

literature,  fas  natural  
beauty and intemat!  ortunities  
Learn fa.<,t:  lo tensive coms  ...  

Fulfill the tangw.1.ge:r,eq\iir;ment in 2 semesters 
Contact: 

acquaintance rape  on  campus  was  
another topic of discu ssion  at  last  
night's meeting.  

"When I read the Viewpoint article in The Observer, it is clear that this is an issue that effects many students," said Heali. "It is a difficult issue to deal with on this campus because people are not willing to talk about it." 
Heali recommended that the senate form a committee to create an educa­tion system for the campus to educate students on the issue. 
"I belive we should form a committee immediately to try and solve some of this issue," Reali said. "We must start to raise awareness. 
Reali said that senators should talk to administrators, students and rectors in order to get a complete understanding of problem and what can be clone. 
In other senate news 
. 
Nominations were pn~sented last night as following: Trip Foley for secre­tary of the student union. John Osborn for student senate parliamentarian, Mark Lesheey for chaplain of student senate, Jay Smith for office of the presi­dent chief of staff, Susan Roberts for academic delegate and Matt Clark for office of the president controller. 

. 
Senate passed a resolution establish­ing a Sophomore Signature Event Planning Committee. 


Language 
. t argest 
Vof rich 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 6, 2000 
Pro-life 
continued from page 1 
studP.nts  about  "Fetal  
Ex periin c n t a ti o n  an d  
Bioethics."  

From thP. Notre Dame com­munity, law professor Charles Hice will also speak. Hice has !Pd and ad\'ised numerous pro-life organizations around till\ rnuntry, including thP Free Speech Advocates of Catholics Unil11d for Life. Ile will share his nxpr,ri1rnrn with the design and advocacy of the Hurnau l.ifo Amendnwnt. 
"It's an effort to bring people in from various college cam­puses to prnvirle mutual Pdu­cation 011 right to life issues," Kict> said of' llw ronference. "I think it's a great idt'a. It's a vciry useful oµporlunity for NotrP. Damn students to Lncome informed on the isstw. 
Along with thP lc;ctures, tlrn planning committee has scheduled workshops to empower students to deal with issues ranging from death row ministry, the death penalty, post-abortion trauma counsel­ing, crisis pregnancy centers and aid for low income moth­ers. bioethics, stem cell research, international adop­tion, euthanasia and moral concerns, pro-life ethics and strategies for pro-life student organizations. 
"The purpose of the confer-

Conference Schedule 
All evenrs will be in the College of Business 
:qfC1fi::eathei\ Mat#l , .... .•.•·· ..•·. ·.····•·....···•· .. .. .
Legislative lssues, Represen.tative ChristopherSrhitff·"·•

Uffafthe Gfotto c··· ' ·· •... > •· •····· •.· ·· · ··· ·· ·.· • 
Saturday, Apql,~thi,•iQOP 
·r}~ ~:2(1:ve't\i~~:t?t~~irltual fot1ection.·•tucharistk Adoratio11, opportunity{or confession -and spiritual direction 
9:30·am ~  ·  ·  ··  ···  · tracpption and Our Culmre,Janet Smith  
llam<.  "#1  .·  .  ·  .  ·  ....  
•lprn."4',p11  ~J~jghtto-•Life, CharlesRice ... ,•• '•• ·, ...  
'"3tl5  
6 pin ! .\,  .  ..........  tk(5lls~' Be@ $~)ntalid tJllborn, )oMCr6s}>y  . .  . ...  

ence is to bring colleges and universities together for spiri­tual education. to share ideas with ol.hor students and to spread the pro-life culture," Moriarty said. "Our workshops will be on a wide range of top­ics to help studflnls make lheir clubs more cffoctivt~ on cam­pus and to generate more enthusiasm for the move­ment." 
Father Mark Poorman. vice president for Sludent Affairs, worked with the students when they approached him initially with tbe idea of host-
Scene is now accepting creative writing entries from seniors reflecting on their time at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. Poems and short stories should be of reasonable length and will appear in the senior edition of the Observer. E-mail pieces to scene@nd.edu or call 1-4540 for more information. 
TbuPsdoqs oPe students niqli.t. StuJenfs Pecelve 25% off meol pPica with lJDUP student I.D. 

M1d,1ona'wost uniqu~ dininq ••P•-"i<llff(:4' Lo-cof~J in file b.-fflf at ib.., HisfoPic 100 Center in Mislaawalca (219) .257-179.2 www.JOOcenfer.com 
ing a confornncP. 
"We wcro supportiv<1 from the be.ginning," Poorman said. "All of our rnsn1·vations WtffP logistical, Lut !the planning commitl<w] rose to lhe chal­lenge." 
"lie was complettdy support­ive of' our objective," Moriarty said. "Tlw administration has been very supportivn through­out Urn whole procnss. I would expect we'd have a lot more obstacles at a public universi­ty. There would probably he protests." 
According to Antkowiak. the 
r:onforcncc was rlesigtH'.d by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to provid(J studnnts nationwidn with the practical means to sprr,ad the pro-life message on their campusns. and to propose the formation of' a national pro-life network. Students from at least 10 other institutions of higher learning am ex1rnctod to attend. 
The conference was also sponsored by the ND Center for Ethics and Culture, Jacques Maritain Center, Amnesty International. St. 

Thomas More Sori<ity. Children of Mary. Knights of' lrnmaculata, Knights of Columbus, .Jus VitaP, Campus Ministry, and Notre Dame's Dr,partment or Theology. Most lectures will lrn hold in Jordan /\ U cl itO r iU Ill i ll CO 11 () g(\ 0 f' Business Administration. 
"This conforencn will equip and motivate students for their r:ritical rolo as leaders in the new millnnium," Antkowiak said. 
Pangborn Hall Presents 
The Priee is.Right 

Saturday, April 8th Library Auditorium 
8:00 PM Chances: 1/$3 or 2/$5 
Win fabulous Prizesf Play Plink-a, Punch Out, Golf, and SPIN THE BIG WHEEL!!! 
*All profits benefit the Grace Community Center* 

orld 



Thursdav, April 6, 2000 COMPILED FHOM THE 0BSEHV1m WIHE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Wild fires burn near Everglades 
MIAMI 
SmokP 1•m·<1lo1wd arc>as or wPSlr\rn Miami­DctdP County on WPd1rnsday as winu \\orkrd ,igainst firdighfnrs battling 11 2.000-arrr> blazn ,Ll Llw l'{lgP of Llw l·'.vergladns I.al!· in Llw day. lll'ilt·bv rnsidnnts Wl'!"I' ask1·d to stav indoors. kP1'p \\'indows ancl doors shut and tu,:n on tlwir air 1·1mclitio11i11g. That was "duP t" toxir f'umns l'rom tlw lirP in tlw arP,1." arcording lo an advi­s11ry isstwd by :Vliami·Da<l1· polici: dnpartnwnt. Tlw iir1' brok1• out Saturday. ac·.rording to tlw 1:Jorida Division of ForPstry. and a strong north­\\!\Stt•rly wind puslwd it through an undcvPl­11pPd. swnmr.v ill'Pil 011 \VPd1wsday. No ri•si­d1•nr.1's or busi1wssPs wPrr' LhrPatn1wd bv lirr. but sm1ikP hamp<'rt>d visibility !'or driv<;rs on t1Parbv Tamiami Trail. Okc>Prhob!'P Hoad and 1:Joridit's Turnpik,•. said Daviu UtlPy, EwrglauPs distrirl m;inagPr for tlw staf(' J)ivision Ill' 1:111·,,slr~·­
CIA returns former German spy files 

Bl•:HLIN 
Tlw CL\ has givPn (;Nmany a firsl batch of' spy fi!Ps oblain('d l'rom th1\ former East (; P rrnany lhal ro u Id (' x p11st' many agP nts who opPratPd in llw \VPsl during-Lhn Cold War. The· arrhivn. said to !'ontain 320.000 n,mws. was oblainPcl by tlw C.S. intnlligPncP agPn1·y al'tPr tlw lkrlin \-\'all 1'1•ll in 1989. though tlw cirn,mstanrPs hav!' 1wver bPPn offirially 1•.xplai1wd. (;ov1•rnm1\t1t spok<'sman U\\ P-Karsl1'11 I l1·vt' said \\'!'drwsdav lhal llw lirsl CD-HO:l.l ar1·iY<'d al Charn:nllo1· CPrhard SrhroPdf'r's offirP last Fridav. It was still s1•a!Pd and had not V<'l bPen· analvzt>d. lw said. Some 1.000 J'urtlwr disrs arP to follow llVl'l' LhP 11('Xl 1111!' and a hair y1•ars. IIPy(\ said. 
15-year-old boy will stand trial for shootings 
Ll·TI I BMII)(; H. i\lbPrta 
A I:i-vPar-uld bov who shot t½-o studc•nts at his higl{ Sl'hool last·y1•ar is mPntally lit lo stand Lrial in r\itlwr adult or juvr•11i11i rnurt. a judg<\ rukd \VPdtwsclav. Thi' shooting in TabPr, ,\ltwrta. rnTUITl'd ;,ight days a!lPr Llw LittlPton. Colo.. sl'!100I slrnoting-s in which two stud1'nts killl'd 1J pPop!P bPl'or<' !urning-tlw guns on tlwmsr'IVl's. llall'our lkr. tlw b()v's lawwr, said \\'t•d1wsdav his l'lit>nt lirnd llw ~hots U{aL killPd .lason Lani;. 17. and woundPd anothn ym;th in tlw hallway of \\'.IL \lyPrs Sl'hool in April 1<J9rJ. "\\'p will 1111I rhangl' 11ur position that lw pullc\d Llw trigg1)r." !)pr said. "!L's nt'VPr bP<'n an issut>." Bv law. th,• bov·s nanw cannot b<'. n•h•as1'd b;•rausP lw is a 111inor. lkr hw, said his diPnt \\as n·acting to bullying al school and also was alTP1'tPd by tlw Colorado shootings. ,\l"tPr his arTPst. tlH' boy undPn\·Pnt opc•n-lwart surgt\ry lo rntTt't"t a pn·viously undPl!'t'lPd birth 
dd"pr•t. 

S&P 500: ('omposilr ,·0111me:
1487.37

11030.92 I.120,844,544
-7 36 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CC>NPANY  l'ICKER  '  CHANGE  $ CHANGE  Pfl.ICE  
ClSCO .SYSTEMS  csco  -l. l7  -1.00.5-0  72 .12  
METI,IFO:  UK'  MF:T  +7.9"3  •1.1300  15. :'l8  
MTC.JI.OSOf''I' C"ORP  M.SFT  -1.46  ~2 .1825  86 .38  
NASDAQ 100 SHAJl. ORACLE CORF  QQO 08.CL  -1. 7"8 +3 .05  -1.8175 •2-132~  100.12 76 ,2S  
D~L!, COKPUTti.:R I:NTBL CORP  O'F'.U, INTC  -0 .12 +-2 .1,6  ~o. 3915 -.i.8700  5L92 12,.ee  
JDS l.."Nl.PHASE  JDSU  +l, 04  +'.L2500  110.25  
SUN MIC'ROSYS'I'EM  SUNW  -1.19  -1. 250-0  ae. i5  
P~RAMETRIC TEC'H  PMTC  •'L4J  +0."3B7  9,f7  


President Bill Clinton puts his arms around Microsoft founder Bill Gates and World Bank President James Wolfensohn during the White House conference on the economy Wednesday. Leading economists and industry experts discussed world economic trends and predictions at the meeting. 
Clinton boasts strong economy 
Associated Press  in thn midst or the longest economic expansion in  come, such as computers that can listen and learn.  IntPls, Cisr:os and Microsofts should be IPss  
our history and an eco­ "The magic has really just  affected."  
\V,\SIIINGTO[';  nomic Lransl'ormation as  begun ... the best is yet to  Yale University econom­ 
PrnsidPnt Clinton boast­ profound as that that led  rome."  ics professor William  
ed Wednesday that  us into the industrial rev­ Abby Joseph Cohen, the  Nordhaus said he was  
America is enjoying its  olution." Clinton said.  resperled chief invest­ concernNI about inflation  
strongest nconomy in his­ Fnderal HPsPrve  ment strategist for the  and overvalued storks.  
tory but heard warnings  Chairman Alan Greenspan  investment firm Goldman.  "Even though inflation  
about stork market turbu­ vowed to remain vigilant  Sachs & Co., said she has  has bPen well brhaved."  
lPncP. lhP threat of' rising  about inllation. "We nerd  been enthusiastir about  he said. "it s0r.ms unlikely  
in!lation and tlw hugP U.S.  to be rarel'ul to keep inlla­ the outlook for U.S. stocks  you can continue tlw cur­ 
trade defirit with other  tio nary pressurns con­ for the past decade. "And  rent growth rate without  
countrins.  tairwd," Im said.  we remain so." she said.  inflation."  
In the ornate East  "The evidencP that  Some participants pre­ Furthermore-~. hP said  
Bourn. Clinton presid0d  inflation inhibits econom­ dir:ted eronomir troubles  stock prict\S WPrn unreal­ 
ovPr a day[ong Whitfl  ic growth and job rrnation  ahead.  istically hig-h. "Ovcrvalu0d  
House ronference on the  is too crndible to be  Investment bank!-n  markets make us !'eel  
"nnw eronomv," a meeting  ignorPd."  Roger Allman said there  good but they are not  
that fell onr d·av after Wall  Billionairn Bill Gates  already arc signs of a  · healthy for us." Nordhaus  
Strncl suffernl its wildest  was wctrmly introduc0d by  stock market correction.  said.  
one-day swing in history.  Clinton -just two days  "If there is going to be a  International economist  
TIH! presid0nt was  aftnr Microsoft Corp.,  correction." he cautioned,  C. FrPd Bergsten said hP  
joined by Wall Street  which he co-founded. was  "it's probably going to be  was troubled by "the hugP  
g-urus. invPstment  found guilty of violating  a sharp one at least in  and growing tradr.  
bankPrs. Pconomists.  antitrust laws. Gates  terms of-technology equity  dnf'il'it." which hit a  
thinkers and higb-terh  s po k <' o l' ter h no Io g-i r a I  values. Not all companins  record high of $2(17.6 bil­ 
1mtn~preneurs. "\Ve nwet  breakthroughs yet. lo  will be afl'erted: the  lion last year.  

JAPAN 
Mori to continue successor's policies 
. Election of new Prime Minister resolves leadership crisis 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 

Huling party insidcr Yoshiro Mori took control as .Japan's new prime ministPr Wednesday. squelching spccul..tion he would call narly elections and promising to plow 
alrnad with his  prcdccrssor's  cco­ 
nornir rncovery plan.  
The  Plnrtion  of'  Mori  by  

ParliamPnt rcsolvP<l a leadership rrisis in the .Japanese govcrnnrnnt triggered Sunday when Prime Minister Kcizo Obuchi suffernd a stroke and went inlo a coma. Oburhi remainPd hospitaliznd on life support. 
At his f'irsl nr,ws ronference as prime ministnr. Mori brushed off suggestions that opposition pres­sur0 would l'nrre him to rail a gen­eral 1\lcction bef'ore July. when lcadr.rs !'rom the Group nf' Eight nations will hold a summit in Japan. 
Mori, the former serond-in-com­nrnnd in the Liberal Democratic Party. said bol~tering the economy and preparing for tho summit wen~ his prioritifls. not elections. The government must ra!l el0ctions by October. 
"I havr. ollwr major tasks to carry out and I havn to make sure that I 
ex!icut0  those tasks in  a  proper  
manner," he said.  
Mori,  62, look  office  with  a  

promise to ker.p up the poliries of Oburhi. who mounted a huge public spr.nding campaign tn jar .lapan out 

of recession. !Ir kept Oburhi's Cabinet intact. with all th<' minis­ters the same except !'or th0 top spot. 
Mori said his I'irst job would bP to end .Japan ·s dcica<ln-long-stretch or malaisfl, and especially to boosl pri­vate consumption, long considnrnd th1:1 central weak spot in tlw econo­my. 
"I will be following the path of Prime Minister Obuchi." Mori, declared. "I will finish what hP has started and left unl1nislrnd." 
A f'orrn"r trade minister. Mori won solid majoritifis in votes Wcdnnsdav iri both housPs of Parliamrnt f'ollowing-his installnwnt earlier in the day as presidPnt of the LDP. Ile and his Cabirwt Wl!re sworn in by Emperor Akihito. Mori PmPrgcd as the most viablt) rPplace­m en t as prime ministPr shortly after Obuchi's stroke. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 6, 2000 
WRC 
continued from page 1 
µonenb. There will be lhree studP.nt represP.ntatives 
elected by 
Students Sweatshops, 
three col­lege and university representa­tives eli~rted by the par­tic i µants and six rep­rescntativos from thr> already existing Advisorv CO u 11 C i 1·. These thrnci groups will 
the United Against when we have a question about a certaiu vender," Station said. 

Because Saint Mary's is a small college, tile amount of apparel sold by the college is not as substantial as some other members. Many rep­resentatives, however, feel that the educa­
'This weekend, the WRC tional will become a reality and benefits 
thP stu­
will begin its task of 
dent hodv empowering workers to w i I ·1 
improve conditions in receive 
from thn
factories around 
WHC an~ 
the world." as impor­t.ant as informa­
Katie Poynter 
tiou on 
Saint Mary's junior 
apparPI 
serv1\ as the governing body or Uw Consortium and will ,·ote on future decisions for the WRC. 
!11 adrl.ition to PovntN, stu­denLs l\laurccn Citpillo and Callie Kusto, along with Ute director of thr. bookstore, Sandy VanderWervfrn. and Jfosty St,ition. thl'l coordina­tor of the working group, will be attending. 
VanderWerven hnpPs that, aside from learning ahnut the functioning of the WHC, tlrn group can gather some information on the manu­facturers the college uses when producing rnllf1giate apparel. 
"My expectations are just [to] learn more about how I. as a buyer for the campus, will be made aware of what is occurring," she said. 
Currently the College buys from the corporations Jansport and Gear. Both Station and VanderWerven hope that, eventually, the WRC will make it possible for colleges and universities to know all of the vendors various manufacturers use in order to assure thev are treating their workers fairly. 
"We hope to learn how [the WRC:] is going to work 
NEED AJOB FOR NEXT YEAR? 
Student Activities is now hiring for the 2000-2001 academic year. Positions available: 
Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew 
DeBartolo Event Manager " Information Desk -~ LaFortune Building Managers 
Office Assistants ND Cake Service ND Express Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers 24 Hour Lounge Monitors 
Applications available at 315 LaFortune ,.., or on-line at ,nnn,,n,.nd.edu/ ~sao/forms. 
Deadline extended to April 7. 
Vecino 
continued from page l 
two Saint Mary's students 
~--intern there for the work-study 
tr program. "There arc tons of opportuni­ties for one-time service," 
· Palladino said, adding that indi­vidu11.ls or entire dorms can get involved without a weekly com­mitment. 
Anotlrnr junior, who asketl that his nu.me not be used, orig­inally went to El Brnrn Vncino this yl'ar because he owed 40 hou,~s of community sorvice. Instead of fulfilling that obliga­tion through unrelated, one­time only sorvico projects, he completed all 40 hours at El Buen Vecino. !\ftnr finishing his rnquinmwnt. he still volunt.ncrs rogularly thorn. 
"I just got involvocl wiLh it ... I lik<'d the nl'g:tnirntion. so [ kept on goi11g," hn said. 
Them are also lwnefits f'or the volunteers thnmsnlvns, according to Palladi110. 
Many stud<,.nts who SlffVn as tutors at the organization aro not l'Iunnt in Sµanish but ar(] 
, able to practice spPaking Urn 
languagP with m1m1b11rs or lhc community who come t.o be 
tutored, Palladino said, issues such as sharing, disci­
More volunteers would be pline aod helping with house­beneficial to the organization as hold chores. well, said Palladino, ospocially El Buen Vecino began this for a family-oriontod program, program in 1998 after receiving Care for Our Children. a grant from the Indiana 
The program specifically aims Children's Trust Fund, a divi­to help families to deal with sion of Family and Social cultural issues and includes Servic<. s. The grant is funded seminars for adult family mmn• from the sales of "Kids First" bers in areas such as health, license plates. ch.ild-developrnent and the "We am asking all the stu­proper organization or a home. dents ... everybody from Notre 
"In ordc-lr to live better you Dame ... to buy have to have that houso orga­u ized 
"This place is never
Fveryone ca.n 

boring -there's always
live i11 a healthy land safol envi­something going on. It's ron m c n t," 
always so busy that your
llabm· said. 

Jt is important head spins on to include all some days."membors or tho f'amily ~ not 
Susan Palladino
just the µarnnts 

of the> childrri'1 junior 
-in tlrnsn srmi­n an; bocauso 


the plate," 1laber said. ''We need support from tho staff. f'acul­ty and evcryonn who livos i 11 Indiana." 
!\s with all pro­grams at El B u e n Vecino, tlw f'amilins 

manufac­
turers. 
"!Ev<'n though Saint Mary's is small], it's still imporlant i.o take a stand," Station said. "!The WllCI has important symbolic and Nlucational signifkan('.!'." 
Poynter agreed thaL Llir, Consortium has mlucational significance. 
"We are also attending Lim ronferf'nce so that we ran become more informed about the \'YRC and c:an get pluggi,<l i11to tlrn trntwork o/' rampuses that care about sweatshop issues," Poynter said. "We also hope to bring back information which we can use to eel ucate the rest of the Saint Mary's College community about this issue." 
Aside from electing the governing board, thP week­end will provide informa­tional sessions on both sweatshops and the WHC. Congressman George Miller will be addressing the par­ticipants, and there will be a panel discussion with rcprn­sentatives from universities and anti-sweatshop advo­cates. 
After the initial confer­ence this weekPnd, the WHC will meet three times a year. 
INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 

Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwider 
The TIAA-CREF Advantage. 

llispanics tond lo livP in cxtnttd­who partiripat!' in Carp f'or our ml family groups, uccording to Children are not committnd to llalrnr. attend al! nvnnts rnlat<'d to the 
In acldilion to ramily-orirrntnd program. s11minars for adults, Care f'or ''Tltny are not obligated to Our Childrnn offers family come lwrc. They conw wht~ll counsnling. and snparatc semi­tht'Y can, when they lrnv1' nars l'or cltildrnn dnaling with Limn," Ilaber said. 

Year in and year out, employees at education and research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
Easy diversification among a range of expertly managed funds Solid performance and exceptional personal service Strong commitment to low expenses Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options 
With an excellent record of accomplishment for more than 80 years, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader:TIAA-CREF. 


ii 
1 800 842-2776
Ensuring the future for those who shape it."' 

www.tiaa-cref.org 
• Accon:lir,g to DAlBAR, Inc.. afinancial services research firm.In its most recent study, 1997 Ol!finf!d Conrriburion ExcellenceRatinqs, TIAA-CREF was voted n1,1mber one in partici­panr satisfaction. TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. Inc. distributes CREF certificates and interests in the TIM Real Estate Account. Teaa(".hers Personal lnl/estors Servi<.es, ln<:,-distributes the variable component of the personal clr\nuities, mutual funds and tuition sa'Jings agreements. TlAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co.issue insurance and anr1uitAeS. TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust :ioefvices. lnve-stment producu are not FDIC in.,ured. may lose v.-lue and are not bank guaranteed. ~or moce tompletei.ofonnation on our sec.uri,t~ products. indl.Kilng charges and expens,es.all 1 800 842-2776, ext. 5509, for the prospectuses. Read them car@ifully before you 
,nvert or send money. 0 2000 TIM-CREF 1/00. 


Thursday, April 6, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
FACULTY SENATE

SMC group presents at 
Group evaluates classroom use
national conference 




By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College was well rriprescntcd last week at the National Meeting of Arrwrican Chemical Society in San f'rancisco. 
Seniors Julie Bower, Anne Pangilinan. Katie Goolsby and Laura Carroll, along with junior Emily Koelsch and profossors Deborah McCarthy and Philip Hays, atfonded thr. four-day conference dirm:ted towards learning and pre­snnting clwmiral research. Of tlrn 16,000 in aUcmlance. only about 
2.000 worn undergraduatti stu­dtrnts. The four Saint Mary's seniors each µrrn;nntcd a poster on rnimarrh they had conducted. 
Anne Pangilinan 's research title was "Comparison of DHll·T FTIH for Quantitativn Determination of Silica and l'ht>sphorus l'entoxide in a Mixture". She got Ow idea for research from her advisor, McCarthy. who has been working since 1997 with Ilonevwell Aircraft Landing System in S01~th Berni. 
"I just continued the rnscarch they started back then," Pangilinan said. "I was ablo to bcgi11 working on it this past sumnwr through SIS­T.'\H grunt through Saint Mary's." 
llcr follow colleague, Carroll, 
rcscarc·hed ionic competition in 
Lymphoblastoma cells, using a 
technique known as Fluorescencn 
Spectroscopy. 
According to Carroll. the confcr­
l'llce is like a "giant science fair 
with pnnplc that know way more 
than you walking around asking 
questions." The students were 
questioned about their own 
rnsnarch and were also allowed to 
question other students and learn 
11wn• alJou t othor research pro­
j,·cts. 
"l'nople come up with questions you've nnver thought of in another dirnr.tion," said Carroll. "I l1rnrned 
Front Lawn ofCarroll Hall 3-6 PM Saturday, April 8th 
t~ Baod~ 
NAZZ winner Sexual Chocolate Carroll Hall House Band D-BoNeZ Doc Brown 
TBE FOOD 
a lot about communication skills ­communicating what you've researched. communicating with other scientists -and a lot about networking. It really exposes you to different things you can do." 
Pangilinan expressed excitement about some of the information she. r0quirnd from other professors for help on her research. 
"I benefited a lot," l'angilinan said. "I think we represented Saint Mary's very well. There are stereo­types that chemistry majors are geeks. You can he cool and a chemistry major." 
Saint Mary's Affiliates of American Chemical Society (SMAACS) also presented a poster. Koelsch and Carroll are co-presid1mts of the club. 
"[Koelsch) wnnt with us to go to leadership workshops and pre­sent the SMAACS poster with us," said Carroll. 
The group received an out­standing achievement award in 1999. 
/\!though the poster prestintation is not a requirement for chemistry senior comprehensives at Saint Mary's, it is valued for the experi­r-nce. Koelsch went as a student affiliate to attend workshops and learn about what othor r.hemistry chapters are doing. She noted that the chemistry field includes great diversity. 
"We discussed stereotypes of 
chemistry and how to break 
those down. It was verv obvious 
to me, that there is no itereotype 
for chemistry. There were a lot of 
minorities [at the conference]." 
Koelsch said. 
Koelsch also learned about the 
apathy of many chemistry stu­
dents, who work hard and then 
do not bmrnfit from it. 
"We learned how to deal with 
apathy and what to do ,vlwn you 
get tired of chemistry and it's 
your job," Koelsch said. 

. Members also discuss student transcripts, academic honors 
By JOSHUA BOURGEOIS 
Senior Staff Writer 
The Paculty Senate passed a resolution encouraging the Academk Council to investi­gate the eflicient use of class­room spacH and sent another resolution back to the com­mittees on Student Affairs and Academic AITairs regard­ing information reported on students' transcripts and the awarding of honors at gradu­ation at its April meeting Wednesday. 
The resolution requesting the investigation by the Academic Council into the under-utilization of available classroom space came from the committee on Student Affairs. The creators of the resolution intend1~d for the resolution to acquire infor­mation on the issue about the shortage of classrooms dur­ing peak hours of the day. 
Furthermore, the resolu­
tion states that "the costs of 
increasing number of class­
rooms to remedy these 
'shortages· divert University 
funds from real needs 
!increased faculty, tuition 
reduction)." The resolution 
also states that more than 15 
percent of the classrooms 
that are used Monday and 
Wednesday are not used on 
Friday. 
The Faculty Senate debated 
the relevance of the resolu­
tion, but after members from 
llrn committee on Student 
Affairs explained that the 
LOFT FOR SALE 
Single Loft Measures: 76" tall, 84" long, 45" wide 
Great Loft Excellent Condition Call Gretchen 
284-5148 

1lilealthful 
Foods 

Christmas in April Benefit Run 

purpose of the resolution was to request information and not regulation. the resolution passed 23 to three. 
The committee on Student Affairs proposed another res­
oIuti on regarding the increase in cumulative grade point averages throughout the University and address the discrepancy among the colleges in regards to award­ing graduation honors: 
According to the resolution and University of Notre Dame Fact Book, the mean under­graduate cumulative grade point average for seniors increased from 3.198 in Fall 1995 to 3.299 Spring 1999. Also, in Spring 1999 the median cumulative grade point average in the college of Arts and Letters was 3.363 while in the college of Engineering, it was 3.178. According to the resolution, this disparity resulted in a "disproportionate award of grade point average-based honors." 
To aid in resolving these issues, the resolution called for the University to require the "numerical value of the mean grade assigned to all students" to be placed on the transcripts of all students next to the individual stu­dents assigned grades. During debate, the Faculty Senate also requested that the size of the course to be placed on the transcripts. 
The resolution also suggest­
ed the restriction of the 
awarding of honors at gradu­
ation and in deans' list recog­
nition to the top 25 percent of 
students in each particular 
college. 
During debate on this reso­1ution, it came to be known that the committee on Academic Affairs was cur­rently working on a similar issue. Since both committees had been working on the issue and there was a lot of debate on the resolution itself, the Faculty Senate, by a vote 29 to one, decided to send the resolution back to committee. Both the commit­tee on Student Affairs and Academic Affairs will work on the resolution jointly. 

Finally, the Far.ulty Senate passed a resolution proposed by the Executive Committee regarding the Faculty Senate's input into any changes to the Ar.ademic Articles regarding the Faculty Board on Athletics. 
According to the resolution, the senate requested that a copy of any proposals for change to the Academic Articles submitted by the President of the University regarding the Faculty Board on Athletics be sent to the Faculty Senate. Furthermore, the resolution asked the Academic Council to allow the Paculty Senate to add their input before the Academic Council decides on any changes to the Academic Articles in_ regards to the Faculty Board on Athletics. 
The resolution passed 
unanimously 27 to zero. 
In other senate news 
. 
In her chair's report, Jean Porter announced that a Nominating Committee has been formed to nominate the candidates for committee chairs and officers for next year's senate. 

. 
Porter also announced that the final Faculty Senate Forum on Academic Life will convene on Monday, April 10 from 3-5 p.m. in McKenna Hall. The topic will be "Diversity and Community" and presenters will be Associate Provost Carol Mooney, Professor Jimmy Gurule of the Law School and Adela Penagos. coordinator of Multicultural Student Affairs. 


American Heart A 
Association.V 
Fighting Haart -and ­
Choose 

Dairy Queen, Domino's, Papa John's, and Wolfie's 
All proceeds benefit the Make A Wish Foundation 
Food tickets available pre-sale or at the door for $0.50 each (Rain location is in Stepan Center) 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 6, 2000 

Thursday, April 6, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
House bans 'partial-birth' abortions 
Associated Press 
WASJ-llNGTON 

The Rf~publican-controlled llouse voted anm\ Wednesday to ban what critics call "partial birth" abortions, cager for an r.lection-Vflar veto sh.ow­down with implications for the presi­dential cam­paign as well as the batllc for control of Congress. 
The vottJ was a bipar­tisan 287 -141, the third time in five years the House has backed the ban. And while the majority was wide enough to override J>rnsident Clinton's threatened veto. the bill's supporters appear to be short of the strength thny would nPnd to prn­vail in the Senate. 
"God put us in the world to do nobln things, to love and to cher­ish our follow human beings, not to destroy them," said Rep. llonry llyde. R-Ill.. one of the staunchest opponents of abor­tion in the !louse. "Today we must choose sides." 
Several supporters of the mea­sure offered graphic descrip­tions of Urn procedure the bill would ban. 
"Everybody in this room knows this is wrong. It is not legally or morally defensible," said Rep. Rick Ilill, R-Mont., describing a procedure in which Im said a fetus is partially deliv­c red, then its "brains are extracted with the suction device." 
DPmocratic opponents coun­tnrnd that by focusing tlrn debate on one gruesome procedure. Republicans were seeking politi­cal gain without giving up on tlrnir long-term struggle to ban all abortions. 


in cases in which the life of the mother 
..God put us in the world 
was threat­
ened. to do noble things, to love 
The vote and cherish our fellow came a few 
human beings, not to
weeks before 
the Supreme destroy them. " Court is scheduled to 
Henry Hyde
hear argu­
R-111.
ments on a ban of such abortions 
attempt was rejected, 289­140. 
A bipartisan group of oppo­nents of the measure also sought a vote on an alterna­tive that would ban "post-via­bility abor­tions" except in cases where the woman's 

Former inmates seek 
to ban death penalty 
"Proponents of this bill are not just chipping away at the right to choose, they are taking a jackhammer to it," said Rep. Louise Slaughter, D-N.Y. 
Added Rep. Jim Greenwood, a Pennsylvania Republican who supports abortion rights: "This is all about politics. It's nut about saving lives. It's not about winning hearts. It's about saving seats in the Congress." 
;\s drafted, the House bill seeks to ban abortions in which a doctor "vaginally delivers some portion of an intact living fetus until the fetus is partially outside the body of the mother'' and "kills the fetus while the intact living fetus is partially outside the body of the mother." 
The only exceptions would be 
. 

causes many Democrats to part company with organizations that support abortion rights. 
Still, the discomfort of Democrats was evident. The party's leader, Rep. Dick Gephardt of Missouri. did not participate in the debate and voted for the bill, as he has bt>fore. 
Given one opportunity to seek a change the bill, Democrats sought to create a new class of exceptions from the ban for cases in which the mother might suffer "serious long-term physi­cal health cnnsequences." 
rt marked the first time that opponents of the measure had dropped their long-standing demand for exceptions based on mental health. Even so, their 
. Men declared innocent after years on death row visit Capitol 
Associatal Press 
WASHINGTON 
Three men who spent years in jail waiting to die for murders they didn't commit came to the Capitol on Wednesdav to seek a halt to all U.S. executions until stronger safeguards are in place to rmsure innocent peo­ple aren't executed. 
"'You cannot bring a man back from the grave after you find those errors," Darby Tillis said. He and co-defen­dant Perry Cobb are among B men freed from Illinois' death row since 1987 after being found innocent of the crimes that sent them there. 
Tillis, along with former Illinois death-row inmates Ronald Jones and Gary Gauger, support an execution moratorium bill sponsored by Rep. Jesse Jackson Jr., D-Ill. 
The leg­is I at ion 

treated fairly before the Jaw." 
Though there has not been a federal execution since 1963, the number of people put tu death by the states is increasing, including 26 so far this year. There are 3,CiOO people on death rows nation­wide. 
Meanwhile, 87 have been freed since 1973, according to the Washington-based Death Penalty Information Center. Some were cleared with new trials. Some had their convictions overturned on appeal. Some had DNA prove their innocence. 
Tillis and Cobb were arrested for the murder of two men during a 1977 rob­bery at a Chicago hot-dog stand. Because of a lack of physical evidence and dubi­ous witness testimony, it took three trials to send them to death row. 
Their convictions eventual­ly were overturned, anothflr trial ended in a hung jury, then a judge acquitted the men -after they spent nine years, one month and 17 days in jail. 
Gauger was convicted of 
slitting his 
parents' 
throats on 

passed by the Nebraska legisla­
turn, a law rejected by a federal 
appeals court. 
While there is no direct con­nection between the court case and the legislation, sponsors say the measure was crafted to meet _objections raised in the appeals court ruling in the Nebraska 
case. 
Numerous Democrats com­
plained that the GOP leadership 
was more interested in political 
gain than in reducing abortions. 
Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colo., 
accused the GOP of trying to 
exploit a "wedge issue in this 
election year," a reference to the 
extent to which the measure 
life or health were in jeopardy. The GOP leadership successfully prevented the measure from coming to a vote. 
Clinton has vetoed the so­called "partial birth" bans twice in the past, each time saying he would sign a bill that provided exemptions for both the life and the health of the mother. 
The impact of the abortion issue on the campaign is unpre­dictable. 
George W. Bush, the GOP nominee-in-waiting, has sought to soft-pedal his opposition to abortion at points, but has repeatedly said he would sign a "partial birth" abortion ban. 
Featuring interviews 
with Forest Whitaker and Indie film legend, Jim Jarmuscb. 
Click on 
CampusVibe!' 

Click the flix page of campusvibe.com for: 
• 
independent film• interview "close-ups 

• 
movie,previews • now showing • coming soon 


be Outrageous! 

Watch for cvrv, where outrageous student visions hit the web. 

~~~\~i~\ife~ www.CAMPUSVIBE.COM 
w o u I d 

"You cannot bring a man
immediate­t h e i r 
back from the grave after 
ly suspend Illinois farm in
all execu­you find those errors. " tions by the 1 9 9 3 . federal Police told 
govern­Darby Tillis him they ment and fonner death row inmate had evi­
the states for seven years. To resume executions, states would have to provide access to DNA testing to everyone on death row. 
Competing measures in the House and Senate also seek protections for capital defen­dants but do not call for a moratorium. 
Illinois Gov. George Ryan, who rekindled a national debate over the death penal­ty in January when he halted executions until a commis­sion could find out why more people were freed than lethally injected in his state, released a statement praising Jackson's measure as a step toward "ensuring that every­one accused of a crime is 


d e n c e 

1inking him to the crime and he made what he said was a hypothetical statement about blacking out that was taken as .a confession. A state appeals court overturned his conviction in 1996, and two gang members from Wisconsin have since been charged with the murders. 
Jones confessed to the 1985 rape and murder of a young mother of three and was convicted. He later recanted, saying he made up a story so police would stop beating him, but he went to death row anyway. 
He was released last year after a DNA test proved he didn't do it 
-------· -----­
page I 0 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 6, 2000 
Calendar of Events "What's the Future of This Relationship?" (Apr, 9) 
Deadtine for sign up is Thursday,;April 6 -­112 Badin Hall or 103 Hesbu rary Aworkshop for couples in a ser -relationship whO want to explore choices and de 
Senior Retreat #3 (Aprll 14-15) f 
Deadline to sign-up is April 12 103 Hesburgh Library 
Freshmen Retreat #29 
Friday-Saturday, April 7-8 St. Joe Hall-
RCIA: Rite of Reception Into 
Sunday, April 9, 11:45 Mas_s Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Graduate Student Bible SWd · Wednesday, April 12, 8;00,pit,q} Wilson Commons "' 
Interfaith Christian Nig 
Wednesday, April 1~. 1 Walsh Hal! Chap . 
Weekend Preslders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, April 8 Mass 
5:00 p.m. 
Rev.John E. CC1nley;,CO;;,:c, ..­
Sunday, April 9 Mass 
10:00a.m.'· 
Rev..James K Foster,C,S.~ 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. PeterD-.-Rocca,C.S.C. 
What is it about this place? Jitn Lies, C.S.C. 
I find myself wanting to say something about Notre Dame and about what this place mec1ns to me and to so many. Not only because our seniors are inevitably con­sumed by thoughts of their imminent departure; but because I myself am preparing to leave Notre Dame al the end of this academic year. I have been given the blessing of my religious community, the Congregation of Holy Cross, to take my leave of this place and to pursue doctoral studies in moral psychology. I don't need to tell the seniors that this leave-taking comes with mixed em0tions. There is in me great excitement at being able to pursue that which I've long wanted to; but at the same time, there is more than a tinge of sadness at the thought of leaving this place which I have of late called home. 
What is it about this place that makes it so hard to leave? There are as many answers to that question as there are people who've been faced with leaving here. There are undoubtedly some among us who won't find it difficult at all, a few who've looked forward to this day for a long time. And then there are those who can't imagine life beyond il. And then there are most of the rest of us who fall somewhere in the middle, pained at the prospect, but excited, and grappling at the same time at making the best of these remaining days. 
I find myself reflecting a good deal personally on why this place might mean so much to me. Clearly, it is the relationships with the many in this place who fill the everyday of my life that I will most miss. 111ere are numerous encounters each day which leave me a better man for each. There is also the sense of this place as being big­ger than any one of us, and even bigger than the collective, a spirit which takes all of us beyond ourselves. There are circumstances lately that have brought this home to me more powerfully than I might otherwise have appreciated. The most obvious are the events surrounding Conor Murphy's relatively recent diagnosis with leukemia and the remarkable love and support that have been expressed for him. Clearly, the marrow donor drive, which garnered the participation of so many, was evidence enough of our collective willingness to stand together in times of adversity, and to support one another in a time of need. 
As a rector and a campus minister on this campus, I have most enjoyed the opportunity that it has provided me to enter into the lives and stories of so many fine people, young and old. I am humbled and honored to have walked with so many through some of the most important days of their lives. As I write, it is the anniversary of my ordination to priesthood. I suspect there is no other gift for which I am more thankful as I reflect on my days of ministry here at Notre Dame. There is a richness to our sacramental life and to our shared faith that leaves me speechless with gratitude before God. This evening I will offer a Mass at the Log Chapel to yet again give thanks for the many blessings that I, and all of us, have known in this place. 
Not long from now, I will miss being able to wander out in the middle of any night to spend some time at the Grotto; I will miss the ceaselessly joyful liturgies which grace our beautiful Basilica; I will miss many things, but most of all, I will miss the peo­ple. I will miss the multitudes who make up this place, the people who challenge me every day to be more than I am, whether they be students, faculty, staff or administra­tors. As I prepare to leave this place, I do not apologize for being sentimental about it; I am sad, I am excited, I am moved and I am grateful. There is simply a lot of sentiment in that' 
I want to close with a prayer that has meant much to me ever since my theology studies in Berkeley. They are the words of Teilhard de Chardin, but so much the thoughts of my heart in these days, for myself, and for you. His words might encourage us to be present to each moment, even as they are numbered. 
Above all, trust in the slow work of God. We are quite naturally impatient in everything 
to reach the end without delay. We should like to skip the intermediate stages. We are impatient of being on the way 
to something unknown, something new. And yet it is the law of all progress that it is made by passing through some stages of instability ­and that it may take a very long time. 
And so I think it is with you. Your ideas mature gradually -let them grow. Let them shape themselves, without undue haste. Don't try to force them on 
as though you could be today what time 
(that is to say, grace and circumstance 
acting on your own good will) 

will make of tomorrow. 
Only God could say what this new spirit gradually forming within you will be. 
Give our Lord the benefit of believing 
Scripture Readings for This Coming Sunday 
that his hand is leading you,
1st Reading Jer 31:31-3416, 1~23 
.:it..::~:;::,.,'"'.i{\:. * 
and accept the anxiety of feeling yourself 2nd Reading Heb 5:7~9 in suspense and incomplete. 
-O\MPUS 

Gospel Jn 12: _20-33 
MINISTRY 

morP  f'!Pxibll'  in  talks  on  
nxpanding  
tho  I :i-~  
ll1<'mbPr·.:.  
lJ  N  . ;.  
SP cu r it Y"  
Council.  
B  u  t A  
diplomats  
cautionr-d  
that rnform  
or 1111' most  A nnan  
impor(ant  
U.N. body  was  still bogg<'d  

,--~------------~------­
-· .. 
----------------------~·­
Thursday, April 6, 2000 
The Observer . NEWS page 11 
Annan welcomes 
U.S. flexibility 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

U.N. Secrntary-Cenernl Kofi Annan said Wndnesclay he welcom<'d a U.S. dncision to bn 
down by c:ornpnt.ing national and r<'gfonal d<•nrnnds. 
Hirhard llolbrookn. thP U.S. ambassador to th<' Unitrid Nations. told th<• (;<•nnral Assn 111 !J Iy' s Op(' n -I•: n cl Pd Working Croup 011 Monday that Washington \\'as dropping its riPmand for any <'xpansion or tlw rnuncil to haw a cniling of 20 or 21 mPm lwrs. 
"Tlw U.S. is now prnparpcl to rnnsid<>r proposals that would rPstdt in a siightly larg£ir num­bPr ol' seats· than 21." lw said. without giving a 1ww cniling. 
Annan. SJJl'aking to rPport£'rs in Honw on \\'pdnnsday said lw was Pnrourag1>d by I lolbrook1• 's annouJH'.nmPnl. 
"I think it will l'arililal1\ tra11sartion arnong mcmbnr sta1PS l'or rf'!'orm in tlw coun­cil." lw said. 
Tlw SPrurity Council. tho only U.N. body with pmwr 1.o cnf'orrn its dndsions militarily or economically. has fivn per­manPnt mPmlwrs -the Cnitcd Statcs. Britain. France, Russia and China -and I 0 11011-pPrmanPnt mnmbcrs 
whoso terms rotate every two years. Holbrooke stressed that the 
U.S. position during future negotiations would be based on the need for tho Security Council to be reformed and strPngtlll'ned, not merely expanded. 
"While progrnss will not be easy, ii" w1~ approach this dis­cussion with a spirit of open­ness, we can Pnergize this debate and begin to build com­mon ground," hn said. 
Thn United StatPs and France favor adding f'ivn new p(1rmanent scats -Japan, Germany, ancl one member from Asia, Africa and Latin Anwrica, tq be s1dPcted by their rngional groups. Those rngions am a long way rrom agrl'Pm1rnt on a singlP country to rnpn~sent th(m1. 
Many industrializncl and developing ('ountrins oppos,i any <'xpansion of the p<'rma­nPnt nwmlwrs, who havp veto prn-ver. And proposals for thn sizP ol' t.he council go up to 2(1 nwmlwrs. 
As Italy's U.N. Ambassador Sf\rgio Vento told the working group, adding new pnrmanent 111<'111 bPrs would bP discrimina­torv and would furtlrnr divide 
Ill£: rnuncil and makP rlrlcision­
making more di11icult. 
China's dPputy U.N. ambas­sador ShPn Guofang said lkijing is flexible on the num­lrnr. but is concerned about maintaining Lhe council's ofli­ciPncy and wants to ensure "thn reprosPntation of thn dnvcloping countries." 
"It's a step in the right direc­tion," said Namibia's U.N. Ambassador Martin Andjaba, a non-pnrmanent council member. 
Sun, six planets to align in May 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Don't put away that Y2K 
survival kit just yet. 
Next month, the sun and six of the planets, including Earth, will line up like cosmic billiard balls -an alignment lhal has doomsayers predict­ing the end of the world. Again. 
Some astrologers believe the alignment could shift tho Earth's poles, trigger earth­quakes and ruin the stock marknt. 
Tonight. in a celestial pre­view. thrP.e planets and the crescent moon will appear close together in tho sky as they march toward the grand alignment. 
/\stronomcrs say there is no need to worry. Ti1ey, too, are bracing for the May :i-16 alignment. They will be busy debunking end-of-the-world prndictions, just as they did in 1982 and 1962. Such align­ments occur about once everv 20 ynars. · 
"If people are determined to be anxious about something, 1 think it would be a lot better if thev were anxious about their ·driving on the free­ways,'' said E.C. Krupp, direc­tor ol' the Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles. 
Tonight, Mars, .Jupiter and Saturn will appear bunched up in the sky of the western United States. Hemember, there's no risk or a collision: Tho moon is 239,000 miles away from Earth; Mars 216 million milns away; Jupiter 543 million miles away, and Saturn 927 million miles away. 
Tl1e May alignment will involve the sun, Mercury, Venus. Earth. Mars; .Jupiter and Saturn. It won't be visible because of the sun's glare. 
"It's very pretty," said· Dennis Mammana, astronomer at San Diego's Reuben H. Fleet Science Center. "I think that's the limit to th€1 significance of this thing." 
Every planetary alignment brings a m1w round of dooms­

day predictions.  
A book  
called  
" T h e  
Jupiter  
Effect"  
reci~ived  
w i d e  
attention  
with its  
false pre­ 
diction  
t h a t  
California  
would be  
rocked by  
a major  
earth­ 
q u a k e  
indirectly  
caused by  
the 1982  
alignment.  
Another  
book, omi­ 
nous I y  
t i t I c d  
"5/5/2000:  Alpha  
lcB, The  Ceti  
i11 c re as Od Source: Sky and Telescope Magazine AP 



Ultimate 

Aquarius. Disaster," 
That's not a predicts good thing. tho align -The "pikup nHrnt and or energy" is
going to lead s o I a r to "some very activity serious nwPr­will unleash a complex chain sals in tlrn stock markot,'' said ol' events causing the Earth's astrolognr Norman Arens. lie crust to slide and poles to also predicts cataclysmic shift. quakes, l1oods and volcanoes 
"Quite frankly, it would be a as well as a movement away geological Armageddon," from 2,000-year-old Christian author Hichard Noone said. princip!es. "You'd have volcanism going Mammana countered that on globally. Earthquakes nobody has ever been able to beyond the scale anything explain how rocks in spaco Richter ever dreamed of. can influence lives. 
Tsunamis hundreds of feet 
high, sweeping hundreds of 
miles inland." The 390-pagc book uses "pole shiftin,.(' to explain everything from the disap­pearance of the civilization that built the pyramids to why woolly mammoths appear to have been flash-
frozen in Siberia. Noone has moved his family to safo­ty in Georgia. 
Astronomers say thcrn's nothing to worry about bl\CHUSP the extra pull and stretching from the aligned plan­ets is a small fraction of' the moon's tidal and gravita­tion a 1 strength. 
Astrologers also sav the planetary alignment sig­
Mars 
nals a change from the AgP

Jupiter 
of Pisces to the Age of 

PPE THE CONCENTRATION IN -~ PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE Concentration invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 

(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, 


then PPE wants you! 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Government Department, Roos. I@nd.edu. 
FOR:·AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor David O'Connor at O'Connor.2@nd.edu. The application deadline is noon on Friday, April 7. Late applications will be accepted only if openings are still available. 
The general warning signs for heart attack are: 
• 
Uncomfortable pressure, fullness, squeezing or pain in the center of the chest lasting more than a few minutes 

• 
Pain spreading to the shoulders, neck or arms 

• 
Chest discomfort with lightheadedness, fainting, sweating, nausea or shortness of breath 


02000. Amertcan Heart Association 
••••••am•••••t FIIII 
page 12 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 6, 2000 
GOP blocks drug coverage amendment 
Associatcd Press 
WASHINGTON 

Senate Republicans rebuffed Democratic efforts Wednesday to bolster prescriptirrn drug coverage and schools at the expense of tax cuts in votes underlining each party's elPc­tion-year effort to embarrass the other. 
As the Senate debated the Republicans' $1.83 trillion budget for next year, lawmak­ers rejected an amendml'nt that would have erected pro­cedural hurdles to senators even voting on the GOP\; cov­eted tax cuts unless prescrip­tion drug coverage is enacted first. 
Hours latrr. the Senate killed another Democratic provision that would have shrunk the G0P's proposed $1 :iO billion tax cut over the next five years by $28 billion and used it to boost spending for schools. Only Sen. Lincoln Chafee. R­R.I., crossed party lines as the measure was defeated 54-46. 
Democrats were hoping that even in defeat. the votes would let them grab the political high-ground on a pair of issues that are widely popular with voters. Their goal was to cast Republicans as more cov­etous of tax cuts than of help­ing senior citizens or students. 
"There's no guarantee" in the GOP-budget that "you are ever. ever. ever" going to push prescription drug legislation through Congress, Sen. John Kerry, 0-Mass., told Republicans. 
Ile contrasted that with bud­get language ordering con­gressional committees to write a tax-cutting package later this year. saying, "Why is it there's ~bsolute certainty for tax cuts. 
Hepublicans fired back that tlwre was enough room in the budget to both cut laxes and extend Medicarn cov<~rage to prescriptions. And tlwy said that before adt.ling another hendit to the health-insurance program for the-elderly, law­makers should secure its sol­vency. 
"It. is deceptive, it is not right" to do otherwise. said Sen. Bill Frist, R-Tenn. "Seniors deserve better." 
The Senate also defeated a pair of amendments -nne by Democrats. the other by con­servatives ~ that would have sharply inaeased the money set aside for debt redurtion at the expense of the tax cuts and spending. 
The budget snts tax and spending totals but leaves details for later legislation. The House approved a similar spending plan on March 24. President Clinton's signature is not required. 
The GOP budget would set aside up to $40 billion for a new Medicare drug benefit if one is created. Though they have yet to write specific legis­lation. Hepublicans would bar coverage for higher-income people while President Clinton and Democrats prefer univer­sal coverage. 
The vote was 51-49 for the prescription drug provision. But it died because under a GOP parliamentary move, it needed 60 votes to prevail. 
In a measure of how thor­oughly politics pervaded the debate, Democrats let the amendment be sponsored by Sen. Charles Robb, D-Va., who faces perhaps the toughest re­e le c ti on fight of any Democratic incumbent this fall. 
And of the six Republicans who voted for Robb's proposal. four face the voters this fall: Spencer Abraham of Michigan, Conrad Burns of Montana, Lincoln Chafee of Hhode Island and Mike De Wine of' Ohio. 
Th<' othl'r Lwo Hepublicans voting "yns" were Sens. Peter Fitzgerald or Illinois and Arlen Specter of" Pennsylvania. 
BENEFIT CONCERT 
To help terminally ill area children live their dreams! 
Featuring the music ofContemporary Christian recording artists "Tatum & Leniski" performing songs from their recently released CD "Help me to Believe.." Plus guests. Music in a Lively and entertaining environment! 
Good music, Good cause! 
April 7"'. 21N, 8.-Npm O'Ianghlln~StMary's 
College 

~Mm-A-\V,sh Poaoduimf 
,rf-~­

• $10.SOat the door In advance, witli student ID $8.00 
Tickets available at: Family Cbristiall Stores, and the O'Laughlin Auditorium box office. For mort infromotion call: 219.234.1262 
-e:-mail: t,atµmlemski:'dtminc com 
States investigate gun industry 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD. Conn. 

Smith & Wesson was lauded by many for rexercising corpo­rate responsibility earlier this year for agreeing to make its weapons morn childproof'. 
Gun groups and competitors. however. protested the deal. One group, Gun Owners of America, even urged its 200,000 members to boycott Smith & Wesson and Lo ask their dealers to stop carrying the company's products. 
Now prosecutors in at least six states are investigating whether the gun industry is illegally trying to punish Smith & Wesson. Under antitrust law, it would be illegal for companies to colludn to deprive Smith & Wesson of business opportunities. 
"Exercising corporate responsibility should not be reason for your rnmpetitors to put a bull's eye on your back," said Nathan 13arankin, a spokesman for California Attorney General Bill Lockyer. 
More than 20 subpoenas have been issued for firearms manufacturers. distributors and others, Connecticut Attorney General Hichard Blumenthal said Wi,drrnsday. He said the federal govern­mr>.nt also is studying the issue, hut the Justice 0cpartment did not return a message seeking comment. 
Smith & Wesson last month 

In exchange, a number of municipalities, states and tho l'edcral governments agreed not to sue th<) company over gun violence. 
Now, Rlumenthal said lrn had rereived reports of com­munication among companies, Internet postings, conversa­tions or threats involving a 
agreed to include 

safety "Exercising corporate locks with responsibility should not 
all hand­

guns be reason for your ()xternal competitors to put a locks at bull's eye on your back." 
first, and intornal 

Nathan Barankin
ones with­in two spokesman for the California 
years. attorney generalNew guns will not 
ban on maga­zine ads for Smith & Wosson. and attempts to discourage lawyPrs from rnpresnnting the manufac­turer. 
Blumenthal and the attor­neys general of New York and Maryland 
accept magazines holding more than 10 rounds of ammunition. Additionally, the company agreed to .invest in "smart gun" technology that allows only the owner to pull the trigger, and to eliminate advertising that might attract children or criminals. 

began the investigation last week. Blumenthal said that California, Florida and Massachusetts am joining tho probe. 
"The indications are suffi­ciently strong that we believe a full-scale effort is justified," Blumenthal said. 
ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!!!!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting applicants for the position of Admissions Counselor 
-As pai1 of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, fhe Counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection ofthe freshman class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents. high school personnel, and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
-Responsibilities include extensive planning. travel. communications within the geographic area. assessment and evaluation ~fapplications. and group/individual infonnation sessions on campus. Additional responsibilities. including the possibility of diversity recruitment. will be assigned by the Director of External Operations and the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
-Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and familiarity with all aspects ofstudent life at Notre Dame. 
-Essential qualities include strong communication and organizetional skills. enthu.siasm. diplomacy, and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
-Preferred stan date is July I. 2000 

Appl)' with resume, cover letter, salary history and reference information by April 14, 2000 to: 
/\dmissions Counselor 
Job #0007-l0 I 
Department or Human Resources University of Notre Dame Notre Dame. IN 46556 



---------------=--------..-;:-__________________,..,.___..._________________ ~...--~­
Thursday, April 6, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 

The Center for Asian Studies presents An informal colloquium by Liu Zongkun 
Christianity's Co01eback in China 
After the Cultural Revolution, Christianity came back to China first through the re-opening of churches to the public, and then through the renewed study of Christian themes by scholars not affiliated with the state church. 
Thursday, April 6, 4:00 209 O'Shaughnessy 
Liu Zongkun (PhD, Peking University) is a post-doctoral fellow at Notre Dame's Center for Philosophy of Religion. Co-sponsored by Campus Ministry. 
Holy Cross College is a small, close-knit, two-year liberal arts college where you'll get the personal attention you need for success. We'll challenge you, too ... with an expanded curriculum that includes a new Associate ofArts in Business Administration degree. And wait till you discover our campus life. We've spruced up the landscaping, added new sports and recreation facilities and created more on-campus housing. Just recently, we broke ground on a new student apartment complex. Looking for the path to a brighter future? It starts right here at Holy Cross. 

.·•0"fjs~-r;et<:;'t:1 
,~kA,~~w·i~%Mit=~·-· 

HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 

Notre Dame, Indiana 
P.O. Box 308 Notre Dame, IN 465S6-0308 
219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 
www.hcc-nd.edu 
©2000HCC 
IRAN 

Minister: U.S. needs actions, not words 
forg<lt the past," Albright said.
. Albright's 

She also con dPmnPd the 1979remarks could seizure of thf' U.S. Embassy in rebuild U.S.-lran Tehran and criticizr,d Iran as a 
supporter of terrorism, an
relations 

opponent of" Middle East peacemaking and as bent on acquiring weapons of mass
Associated Press destruction. TEHRAN, Iran Kharrazi said Wednesday Iran's foreign minister on that his ministry would givr a Wednesday welcomed a df~tailed responsl' to J\lbright r e c e n t later. But he said overt 11 re Washington's apparent inten­b y lion to improve rnlations nood-S e c re tary eel to be demonstrated in prac­of State ticc. Madeleino "Ir the United Sfotes is really Albr.ight to for an improvement of tirs b e g i n with Iran, it should take prac­r eve rsi n g tical steps in this regard and decades of show that it has abandoned its mistrust, Albright hostile policy," Kharrazi told a but said joint press conference with words needed to be supported Danish Foreign Minister Niels by actions. He.lveg Petersen. Albright's comments last Kharrazi called for the month contained some positive release of Iranian assets that points, Foreign Minister are frozen in the United Kamal Kharrazi said, accord-States. ing to the official Islamic "There is long list of issues Republic News Agency. which Iran believes should In a speech March 17 in change before any talks with the which she abolished a U.S. ban United States. Before anything on imports of Iranian luxury else, we want to sec sincerity goods, Albright said that the from the United States through United States wanted a "new changes in Washington·s foreign relationship" with Iran. policy," he said. Albright said the sbah, Asked whether his remarks whom the United States had showed a shift in Iran's line on backed until it was over-the United States, Kharrazi thrown by the 1979 revolution, said: "What I said was that had been brutal to Iranians, Mrs. Albright's speech and that Washington had bePn revealed some changes in "regrettably shortsighted" in Washington's attitude toward its tilting toward Iraq during Iran, but it still contradicts the Iran-Iraq war of1980-88. what the U.S. government "Neither Iran, nor we, can does in practice." 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THF page 14 BSERVER Thursday, April G, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notr< Oame. IN 46556 024 Soud\ Dining Hall. Norre D.1111t', IN 4(,)56 
EDI fOR IN CHIU Mike Connolly 

MANAGING fmT0R BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Cillt:sf>i,· rim Lane 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER rim Log.111 B,ian Kessler 
NEw.s EDITOR: Arnw Marie ;,.,lmingly VJEWI'OINT Ell!TOR: Lil., H.1ughcy SPORTS EO!TOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Gr.-co SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Mollv ,\lcVoy PHOTO EmTOR: Liz Lang 
AIWERTl:'ilNG MANAGER: Par Percrs An DESIGN MANAGER: Chis Avi!J Svsn.MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunvillc Wrn ADMINISTIU TOR: Ad,1111 Turn,·r CONTROi.i.ER: Boh Woods GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
C . NTACT Us 
OFFICF MA'IIAGFR/GF"IEML INFO. . ... 6~ 1-7471 FAX........ ........... ........... .... . ... ··••·· 631-6927 
ADVERTISING.......... .......... .... ......6.'\ l -69U0/!l840 
obscivcr@da1win.cc.nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF..... ..............631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME...................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................63J-'ij l 3 
NEWS.........  .. ···•••·••··· ··························631-532.'l  
observcr.obsnews. l@nd.edu  
VIEW'f>OINT...  .................................... 651-550,  
nhservt'r.vie\vpoinr. l@nd.edu  

SPORTS.......... ············· .. ······························6j l-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................63 1-4 540 ol,server.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.......................................... .631-4324 obscrver.smc. I@nd.edu PHOTO......................................................63 l -87 (1 7 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ohser11er.11d.ed11 for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fcarnrcs and opinion columns, as well as carronns, reYiews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
Sl'Rf TO: 
movies/music for

weather for UJHO•thc 
weekly srndent reviews 

n1inutt' fruccasts 
advertise for policies 
online fearnres for spe­

and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published afrcr 
to meet the editors and 

Augusc I999 
suff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print .111d c,nline b,· rhe students of the University ofNnrrc D,11nc du Lie and Saint Mary's College. Editorial coment, including advenisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofcithcr institution. The Observer reserves the riglu co refuse advertisements ha.sed on content. 
The news is ref,oned as accur,ndy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the rn,1jority ofchc Edimr in Chief. Managing Editor, Assiscant Managing Editor and depamnenr editors. Commentaries, lencrs and columns prescm the views of the authors and nor necessarily chose oF The Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available co all readers. The free exprnsion ofall opinion, duough beers is encour,1geJ. ln,ers to the Edi,m 111,ist be sigacd aml must it1d1de conran infi.>rmarion. 
Quemm,s reg11rdi11g Oh,erwr policies s/1011/d be direa­,d10 Editor i11 Chuf/lfike Comw/6·· 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Students are talking about sex 

Living is earning a sufficient wage 
One ol' the remaining questions that thci Univnrsity's Task Force on SwPatshop Initiatives must address is that of the living wag1!. My own position is that we! should uphold the living wage. The first reason for doing so is tlw improvement such a wage would bring about in the lives of thP workers. The second is that the living wage has bcic•n a standard part of modern Catholic social tP,H"hing from its inrnption with I.no XIII's Herurn Novarum through thn latest docu­mnnts. Both of' thes1• reasons am cli'ten cilP(I. 
Thnre is a third mason. howewr. tl1at is ol'ten missnd: the lack or a living wago s1w1·rely curtails and cwPn violates a p<'r­son's right to lirn. This !"act is substantiat­!'d in a wide range of' studios that have app1\ared in journals rrom The New England Journal of Medicine to Tlw British Medical Journal. Such studies appnar under academically inllecWd titles such as "The Increasing J)isparity in Mortality between Socionconomic Groups in thn United States, 11)60 and 1986," but thn point is sulliciently clear: ll'you dt'ny sommme a living wagn, you rob thi\m of a significant portion of thc\ir lif'P. 
What lnads to this loss or Iil'e is a vari­ety of factors -for inslanct', long-limn strnss, illness. nwlnutrition, lack or lwallh cam -with diffnrrml !'actors lwrnming pn·dmninant in dilfornnt cir-cumstanc1\S. Just how much of a per­son·s life he or slm is dm1hid is hard to c!Ptimninn in any specific instance, but studiPs like tlw above can gmmraliz<' and estimatP that in tho circumstances or tlrn 

U.S. 20 ynars or mum can bP lost (The circumstanccs am frequently worsn abroad.). What thn studios miss are the instances of increased infant and child mortality in f"amilic\s that do not earn a living witg1\. In a l'amily wlmre then! is no living wage, more than onn person is cl1mied years oflifo. 
The American Catholic Bishops rnrng­nizn the ways in which the lack of' living wag<\ and tlrn rrnqunnlly attnndant lack of" ad<~quate health can' impact childrPn. "Tlw lack of" basir hc\althcarn -and l'ac­tors tit'd ,dirnrtly to povnrty -haw• bPPn doc:umnntncl in thn tragic rnality that poor childrnn arn twicn as likPly as ot.lwr chilcln'n to havt\ physi1'.a] or mPnlal dis­ahilitit\S or otlwr clmmir lwalth comli­tions that impair daily activity. Our nation's continuing fail urn to guaranleP ac,·.<iss to quality lwalth ntrn l'or all ptio­pin c1xacts its most painful toll in pr<'­ventable disabilitins. deaths, and sick­noss of' our infants and childrmi." Wlwn dPaLh is involV!'d in tlwso casc•s, murh more• is lost than 20 y<'ars. J\ living wagn would 1'.oVPr such lwalth earn. 
Catholic tPaching of'tPn distinguislws bPtwnon "quality of lil'P" issu11s on tlw one hand and "right to lil'e" issues such as abortion, m1thanitsia and capital pun­ishnwnt on the otlwr. What thn rnsnarch data indicate and what the teaching also al'Jirms is that evm1 with quality ol' lifo isstws tlwrn is a lloor bn1wath which Llw lack of' quality lmcomes a matt<)r ol' a right lo lif'n. This is llw f'orcp lmhind tlw Snrnnd Vali1'.all Coundl"s admonishment "lo renrnm!Jor llw saying or Uw Fathnrs: 'FnPcl tlw man dying nr lnmgPr, lmcausn ii' you haw not !'ml him you haw kil!Pd 

him."· 

Tlw /\nwrican Bishops put tlw matlPr into tlwir own words in rdi\rc'1H·P to tlw global economy: "In our hearts, we know sonwthing is wrong as WP watch chil­clrnn die on Urn nightly nnws. Wn nend to link those hnartbreaking picturcis or hungnr and dnspc\ration to tlw structures ol' dnbt and devnlopnwnt, c:onllid and viohince which ('()ntributP -dirc'1·tlv or indirc)ctly -to tilt' d1\ath or those rl~il­cln·n." 
The\ lack ol' a living wag<' is part or tlm currnnt global "structurns of devnlop­mnnt." Tlw living wage idm1Lili<'s that floor bP1rnath which pNsons lwgin losing not simply this or that quality 111' lif'P but also !iii• its1'1f. 
Whal gops undPr tlw name ol' nwrc' 
_ sustPnancP is not sustnnan1·p al all bPrnus11 it doc\s not, in fart, sustain 1wr­sons ovnr tlw long haul. !•:king out sur­viva! on substandard rations clav al'tPr day takes its toll and PVPntuat<·~ in pr<'­maturn d!)ath for onPsPII' and orw's lowd onns. Tlw living wag<' -that wag<' which can support and sustain a lirP ol' dignity-is rrncessary. It is, ultimatPly, a mallnr or thn right to lil'n. That is why it is callml a "living" wagP. Tlwre are a numlrnr ol' objPc.tions to thn living wag,1 both as a c·oncnpt and as a cnncrd<1 d11siclfiratum. Critic's claim that it cannot lw calculatPd and that if calculatnd that il would bn ,vrong to implmmmt. I will tak<> up tlws<> con1·nrns and otlwrs next tinw. 
Todd !Jauid Vl-'hilmorl' is a,1 assislanl pr<!{essor ofTheology. I/is column appears Cl'ery other Thursday. 
nu, 11iews exprr'ssed in !his column are those ofthe rmtlwr cmd not necessarily those ofThe Ohserucr. 
DILBERT 

I MISSED TI-\E CAMARADERIE. AND THE. 5TIMULATING 
CONVER5ATION. 

SCOTT ADAt'dS 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"You don 'l gel to ehoose how you 're going to die. Or when. You can dedrie how you 're going lo live now. " 
Joan Baez singer 
-z: 
',llsoca::. --­

1 l 
l 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 6, 2000 
Show mercy 
and turn the 
other cheek 
lam not votihg for Gnorgn W. Bush. The main reason l'or this is his rncord down in Texas for killing folks. In his ynars as governor of Texas, tho number of rleath row prisonnrs nxm:utnd has incrnasnd almost logarithmically. 
I truly hold ,\1r. Bush porsonally accountable f'or those dnaths berausn ht\ could havn called the~ prison and commuwd thoso s<m­Marlayna tmcns. IIn had direct control over 
Soenneker 
Lhosn 111urd<1rs, and lrn chosl' not to us<> iL 11' a man watrh0.s anothPr man kill somnonn and does nothing 
Jiere We Go 
Lo stop it, lw is calInd an acci:ssory. Again But in our gov11rnnwnt, such a man is called a kader. 
I have a m11nber of objPctions Lo the dPalh penalty, both moral anrl kgal. My moral ob_j(!ction is simplr: ~ I um against murdnr, in any form. by anyone. Just because thoy are llw govnrnnwnt of tho• United Staws docs not nwan that murder is okay. .lust because he is a murderer or rapist doPs not mean that murder is okay. Them is an an{"itmt saying ovnry pan'nt says to every child who thinks tlw rnrr<)Ct thing to do whtm hit by a sibling is to hit that sibling back, and that is "two vvrongs don't make a right." lkath pPnally supporters could us<i a dose of that advic.n. 
For tlrnsti who want to go to tlw Bible to argue tlrn point. it is lnt<' that the Old Testarmmt distinctly supports the idPa of" killing murdPrcrs. But then Jesus came along and said a lot of' things that \\'Pren't in tho Old Tnstament. lih forgivt! orni another. turn th<l other cheek and love your 1'1wmins. I cannot undt>rstand how any Christian pnrson rnuld say tlrny <'spousPd .fosus' teachings and tlwn ignon• tlwm so compll'Lnly as to support the death prnalty. 
IIt• didn't comp lo tPIJ us to lovn the pPopk that were Pasv to lmP but to tdl us to love the ones that am hard to car;, about. 
My l11gal worry str.ms from tlw pnrmannncn of dnath. If you kill srnirnorni and lat11r rPalizP they didn't do it, it is hard to takn clnath back. Th<' state of Illinois has rmnovecl rnon\ pt~oplP from df'ath row f'or retrials or acquittals than it has killml: 13 pcophi have been taken ofT thr. row. 12 ha,P lwrn1 killed. 11· mon' 1wopln on death row rlidn't do it than did. how many of' the pPople who have been kill<'cl rnally did it? And how will we evnr know? 
Ispent last summnr in Chicago at a journalism coms11 al NorthwPstt'rn Univm·sily. I hPard ajournalisrn profes­sor giw a !Pt·lun~ thnn· that I will remember l"or the rest of' my lif'P. IIt• had made a sort or hobby of' investigating death row r.asc)s that wPrP rl'i<'tTnd to him to dett'rmine if tlwn• was P110ugh PvidPnct• ror thii convirtions and if' then· was 1110n' information lo lw dug up. 
lIP told us tlw story ol' i<>lll' nwn who had benn arrestncl 20 years ago for murder and l'ound guilty. Thn only wit­ness was a woman who had bmm with tlrnrn that night. Tlw pol in• walkPd this wmnan around tlw 1:rime scene, rwar tlw blood pools. and askPcl hnr owr and owr what she Imel SP1m tlw men do. suggPsting idPas all the way. Finally slw brokn down and lwgan telling tlwm what they wi.mlecl lll lwar. 
ThosP li>ur nwn w1ini 1·011virted. and two wern SPll­LPnt:!'d to ckalh. 18 years laLPr. this profossor came on llw scPne and b<)gan to urnkrsland what a lerribl!~ mis­1·arriag11 ofjusticl' had m·<·u1-rPd. IIn workt•d long and hai·d lo COITPrt it and af'IPr 18 years on d,,ath row, the two nwn W<'rn rdeasnd. 
I mnt <llw or lhosn nwn. and I uon't think I will ever for­get listn1i11g lo him s1rnak. IIn told us about spcrnding 18 years 200 fopt l'rom tlw room lw thought he would die in. living ,..,·ith thn knowlnclgn that lw could be killed at almost any nrnmcnl. All l'or a crime he didn't commit. Ile missPd most of his 20s and :ms. I le went in as a young man and carnn out micldiP aged. 
f\o OIH' can give him that Lime back, but al least the stalP was ab!<' lo giw him his l'uturo back. !!'those lllPn had diPd, 1111 01m could havn r<istorecl anything to thorn. ,\nd despil<' tlw surc1issful ending ol'this story. it lias Lo make you wonckr how many pnople on ckath row arc· c4ually i11mH·n11t hut arn murdered anyv,ay. 
In llw Bibln. Abraham manages Lo wlwedlo Cod down to snvlng Sodom and Gomorrah if 1hcrc are _just lIJ good 1wophi in flw Pntire f"ity. WP alrnady know for a f'nct that thnrt\ huvn bmrn morn than IO innoc<mt people on death row. I low many innocPnl human beings are wn \.villing to kill lwf'on· WP. too, haw mercy'' 
/Vlarlayna Soenneker is aji·eshman psychology major. lier cofun111 nppears e1Jcry other T!lllrsrlay. Tfte 1•ieu•s e.Tpr<'s.,·ed in I.his column are those 1?{the author and not necessarily those q/'The Observer. 
O
fHE BSERVER page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Loan f orgiviness benefits the poor 
I graduated from Notre Dame Law School in 1996 and practice law as an assistant federal public defend­er in South Texas along the t,,foxican border. Tchose to attend Notre Oame because I wanted a good education and because, as a practicing Catholic, I wanted to attond a school that would allow mo to grow spiritual­ly. However, attending Notre Dame has unfortunately made it dillicult for me and others to practice law in kePping with our Catholic faith. 
/\s you are undoubtedly aware, attending Nolrn Dame is expensive. As of this year, it costs approxi­mately $21,000 per year in tuition to attend Notre Dame Law School. Adding living expenses to the total, the typir.al law student graduates from Notre Oame with a student loan debt of over $90,000. 
The prirc of Notre Dame Law School's tuition is comparable top other top law schools. The tuition they can command is a consequence of the demand from students who comp<'tn for the opportunity to attend a good school. It is also a reflection of the salaries its graduates ca1-µiarn upon graduation. Tho average annual salary of a Notn• Dame Law School graduate going to work for a large law firm. for example, is approximatnly $90.000. A person earning this income can alTord to make his or her student loan payments. If, however, a graduate wanted to practice law as an attorney helping the poor, his or her salary would not be large enough to make his or her student loan pay­ments. As a result, many students are prevented from pursuing a career in public interest law. 
In my class alone. approximately 25 percent of the class wanted to practice public interest law, but only approximately seven percent could afTord to do so. I chose to try to do so and have faced significant finan­cial difficulties -without a family to support. I am single and have no dependents. Even so, my student loan payments make it difficult for me to pay for rent, utilities and food. A.it.er practicing public interest law for almost four years, my student loan payments still consume over one-half of my net take-home pay. 
The need for attorneys willing to help the poor is real. People) am illegally evicted from their apartments b{'cause of their race, refused their rights under con­tracts, denind basic educational opportunities and taken advantage of in a variety of ways. Tho poor in our communities are always the most vulnerable. When a person cannot afford to hire an attorney to help them, their rights, the same as yours and mine, go unprotected. As a result, people sufTer. 
As Catholics. we believe that we have a moral oblig­ation to serve the poor. Jesus called us all to recogniz<) our responsibility to those less fortunate than our­selves. When wc appear beforr. him, .Jesus said that he will ask us, "When I was thirsty, did you givo me something tu drink? When I was hungry, did you give me something to eat? When I was alone, did you come to visit me?" If not, we will not be recognized as his followers. Whatever we do, or do not do. for the least among us, wr: do to Jesus himself. 
Some law schools, many of them secular, have rec­ognized their duty to produce law students who are able to help the poor as well as the rich protect their legal rights. they do so by offering loan forgiveness. If a graduate decides to forgo higher paying job opportu­nities to praclice public-interest law, his or her law school will help them make their loan payment<;. Law schools arn able to do so because running a law school is a lucrative business. Law schools, including Notre Dame. mak<' millions of dollars ear.h year from the tuition they charge. In essence, these law schools charge all of their students a high tuition because they will earn large salaries, but set a aside a portion of the tuition for loan forgiveness for those students who are willing to work for the poor and will not be making a large salary. 
Working to help its students serve the poor is of course in keeping with Notre Dame's mission as a Catholic university. As one of the most prominent Catholic universities in the country , Notre Dame is in a unique position to take a leadership role in recogniz­ing the responsibility law schools have to the commu­nities they serve. In doing so, Notre Dame will be set­ting a Christian example for others to follow. As the Bible advises us, they will know we are Christians by our love. 
I encourage everyone in the Notre Dame community to support the development of a loan forgiveness pro­gram at Notre Dame and to help raise awareness of this need by attending a rally being held by Notrn Dame Law School students and professors. It will be held this Friday, April 7 at 12:00 p.m. in front of the Main Building. I understand that the implementation of a loan frlrgiveness program is a top priority for the dean of the law school and others within the universi­ty. Help make it a reality. 
Fred Tiemann Class of'% Sourh<rn T cxas April 5. 2000 

Justifying abortion leads to increased injustices 
I was greatly troubled by the April 5 Inside Column perfectly happy using words like, "baby" and even by Lauren Berrigan, "Assess abortion cases stiparate-goes as far as to say, "I do b(llieve that the rights of 
l(' Iler ar~uments s~ep :With logical contr•a~d~ic~-the unborn child should be protected." llowever, t1ons, drastic generahzat10ns and a most after admitting the truth of the personhood of' shocking disniga.rd for the truth. the unborn child, she then sees nothing 
So, what is the truth? The language wrong with killing him or her for the sake of' used by Berrigan attempts to veil the "future opportunities." If you agrne that the reality of what is occurring in an abor-unborn child is a person and has rights, lion. She says, "Iler baby's health ~~==:::::~ 
how can you them proceed to allow him forced dodoi·s to perform a medical or her to be killed in any circumstance'? abortion." Is killing the pationt a Allowing the circumstancH to dirtatr sound means of "protecting the \ whether or not killing a person is per-health" of the baby'/ Indeed, the ~ missible is a frightening prospert when health of the baby is not what this umsidcring morality. One net'd not young woman had in mind when think to hard to discover an example she and her doctor chose (not, ._w......,11,11111,.., when the circumstances of having a 6­"werc forced") to kill him or her. year-old child present a burden to the 
It is rwirhmt in Berrigan·s value parents' "future opportunities." Th11 system that human life must [irst be ,,,zn-,,.i,.~,ii,,,1...11 only di!forencn between this case and scrutinized to determine its relative the case of abortion is tlrn child's stage conwnience. comfort and l(:Vel or ~...,_.~UI~ of development. dependency before the person is Where do vou draw the line? 13irth'! allowed tu live. If we use these crite-Viability'! Both of these am slippery 
ria b<'fon, giving someone the right to ~~ lines. The former is a mere mattPr of life, there will be no end to the viola-O.,._ spacio-temporal location, and the latPr
fllions ol'lifo. Those lives that are vu!-~ is subject to technological advancement neral.Jle, thoso who cause inconve-~ Either human life is always protPCtPd, or ninncn to another may then bn disrnrd-~~ there will b<' no end to the trPachr.rif's ed. Not just the unborn fall into this cate-born from human cruelty. gory. but soon the sick, the aged, the poor and the handicapped. Ifhuman lifo is not val­ued regardless of the circumstance, then no · Erin Rockenhaus 011(~ is safe. Sophomore 
Perhaps the must disturbing thing about Berrigan's Lyons Hall article is her satisfaction with contradictions. She is Aprils. 2000 

page 16 • Thursday, April 6, 2000 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Cusack and co. lend sharp humor to 'Fidelity' 
ByJILLIAN DEPAUL 
~,.:ene .i'v1ovie CritK 
Tlw offlwat romantic c:onwdy "lligh l·idrlity." rtirf'rtPd by StPphen l'n~ars and adaplPd from the novel of tho s am r II a nm b v Ni c k 11 o rn b v, is a dPlightf'ully f'rpsh ('Oming-of-agn story about a 30-something slacker named Hob (;ordon. play<'d by 
.John Cusack (\YhO also "H1·gh F·1de1·1ty" toughl'st bn'ak-ups. Ile• 
,·o-wrole and l'o-pro-dPcidPs to l'!Wisit thr.sc dui·!'d tlw filml. 
wom<'n with tht' hopn 
ThP ne<lils of "lligh of' finding out why he is FidP-litv" read likP a doonwd to lw al on c ganw oi· Six Drgreps of fon'V('r. To makP mal­
011£ offiue shumrocks John Cusar·k: It stars l<'rs worsl', Hob is try­his sistPr. two-tinH' ing to gl't bal'k togPth­
Director: Stephen Frears
Oscar nominnP Joan n r with his Iat 11 st Cusack: it is dirPctl'CI by Starring: John Cusack, brnak-up. Laura (nPw­Fn·ars. who dirPrtrd lbene Hjejle, Jack Black, Todd ro mcr lbf'nt' lljejlcl .lohn Cusark's l'>'Hl and trying to hook-uplilm ...Tlw (;riftf'rs:" and Louiso, Catherine Zeta Jones, w i l h Ill u s if' ia n '\,I a r in it was wriLU.;n by Stl'V<! Lisa Bonet and Tim Robbins dci Salli; (Lisa Bo11nl). 
of a rerord storr in downtown Chicago. whost' inst'curitics about Uw rnality of' his potnntial nrn.nifnst. llrnm­scl\'f'S in ranked lists and an OVf'r-tho­top love of music (spncifi('.nlly, his own r!'cord coll!'ction). 
"I ligh Fidelity's" story actually lakes th(l form of a rr.lationship history for the commitment-phobic Hob, who. al'h\r brt'aking up with his lat1'st girl­
f'riP nd. ran ks his top 5 Znla-.loncs as one of the f'ivc dreaded ex-girlf'riPnds and Tim Hobbins as tho spiritual guru with whom Laura shacks up with al'l(ir sh,• lnavns Bob. 

Tlw standout supporting stars of' "lligh Fidelity," howPvcr, arc' Hob's two nmploycns: Dick and Barry. 
Hnlativc 1wwcomer J,u'.k Black plays Barrv and Todd Louiso, who sonrn will rncognize l'rom his "child tedrnician" rolc in "Jcrry Maguin1," plays Dick. 
Each ol' tl1cS!! music-obsessed employees lacks something in his lil'P ,rnd overcompensates it with his exces­sive lovn for music. Dick is a sensitive guy who longs to share his feelings with morn than a rncord player and l~arry sPnr.tly dreams ol' rol'k-and-roll f'anw. \Vlwn tlws(i two gPt togntlwr and d is r us s musir. usu a 11 v in a s<' r i (' s of' challPngPs to <·omn up ·with thn "top :i" of sonw obsrurP catPgory, thPir bantPr is prirnlnss. 

Thn rPal supporting rharartPr of' "I ligh FidPlity." howPV<'r. is tlw r<'!'Ol'd ston' itself'. Named "Championship Vinyl." it lak<!S on a distinct 1rnrsona to which contributing !'actors arP t.hP interaction ol' thn employPns. the dernr and the rnusir itself. This is appropri­aln since tlw film communicates in tlw languagn of music. 
livnn though "1 ligh FidPlity" nnvPr truly r0aclws tlw height<'nPd nmotional lcwPI of' which it is rapablP. it is a funny and intPlligPnl movi<'. It's a shoo-in t'o r l h P .. top 5" of' that r a r ,, bn'<'d: smart. romantic ronwdiPs. 
Pink. D. V. DcVinrrntis. StPVl' Hosenthal and Cusack. who rollPctively \.vrote .John Cusack's 1997 film "Gross Pointe BlankP," a film which dared to ask the question "!low dons a hitman handle his IO-year high school reunion'?" 
It has seemed. throughout his canwr. that Cusack has bc1•n drawn to charac­ters with similar hang-ups. such as an unrertainty about the future and fear of their own potential. Hob is no differ­ent. lie would certainly appn~riate the "I don't want to buy anything. sell any­thing or pror.ess anything" monologue delivered bv Cusark's Llovd Dobbler (thf' originator of the booTI1-box sere­nadet in 1988's "Say Anything." 
Rob would also appreciate the fart that "Gross PointP Blanke's" Martin Blanke became a professional killn to avoid going to co!l(•ge. 
Gordon is an undrrarhieving owner 
Throughout. tlw film. Hob addressns th1; audien,·p dirPctly. offering his quirky musings on li!'c and love. This does wondnrs l'or his char­actnr. allowing him to bn sPnn as endearingly insecure. instead or shal­low and selfish. lie offers snnrn won­dc\rful insights into the world of rela­tionships. such as, "It's not what you arc lik1', but what you like. Books, films. music. These things an• impor­tant." 
Another extra special moment is when Hob explicates the intricacies of making a successful compilation tape. Thes1\, among many others. are memo­rable moments r.rcated by a genuinely ciriginal and devr.r script. And Cusack delivr.rs them with an uncommon sin­cerity that allows him to shin!' despite his unfortunate haircut. 
The film features a few big-nanrn stars in bit parts, such as C:at.lwrine 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
'Clowns' displays humor and insight ahead of its time 
d!'serving pPrformancP by "\Viii lw 'sell-out' and gPt a s io n P cl s p n ,i r h lo Mu rr a y .
By JASON HAMMONTREE 
Barry Gordonf and doing as normal job, ]pad a normal lil'P. arguing that a jDb is tllf' sar­
Scene J\.1ovie ( :riric 
he pleas11s. This inclucfrs for thn sakn of' his ridation­ril'icci onn makes to bn with 
1ij A.. ]J

going to tlw Statue of' LibPrty ship with Nick'?" and support 01w's f'arnil~1 • 111' 
~l«

A f'ri,•nd 0111'1' suggPst1'd that ll'or thP oiw-hundrcdth or so \Vhil<' it dPals wilh this !'air-claims he is tlw lwst /\moldthe pPrfoct way lo bPgin a 
time), playing in the park and ly S<'rious topic. it dons so in a hP ran !Jp becausn lw doPs film collPction would b<' to waving good-bye to peop!!\ on very funny manrwr. It is a just that. buv r.verv Best Picture nomi­
thn ships in N11w York Ilarbor classic film because of ils Nick. who idolizes tlw life of ne~. lie· had movies !ikP "A -even though Im do<'sn't ironic humor. This is a rnsult his uncl11, lrins at first Lo con­Thousand Clowns" (nominal­
actually know of llerb vincn Murray to bn likn cvery-Pd in 1965f in mind when lw ,tnyonc· on thP Gard11(1r's stPl­0111' elsP. Nick tlwn starts to said it. boats. "'A Thousand lar writing and g!~t upset \•vlwn Murray actu­
"A Thousand Clowns" was a 

Ile goes about tlrn actor's won­ally docs so, bn('.aUS<' it means 
film years ahead of' its tlmt~. having fun. Clowns'' d nr l'u lly 'rich 
an nnd to the r:ardrPn life \Vhc>n you say the words flnjoying lifo on clrnriu:tPl'S. Lhny both had lead. "conwdv in blac·k and white" 
his terms and ";\ Thousand It is this complexity of ~tory most (:;>n,iurt> up images of 

hassling otlwrs Director: Fred Coe Clowns" works and charactPrs that adds Capra-likP S<'ntirnPnlality, or f'or their boring bPcausc it poig11c.u1t ll]('aning to all t!w l\farx-Psq Uf' slapstick. lifcstvl<'s. Starring: Jason Robards, avoids making Jokes. 
l~ut ··clowns" is inst.Pad a 

For Pxamp!P, Barbara Harris, Marlin Murray a hnro Th<1 f'ilm's mod<'rn nwssage
mod<•rn c.omcdy, with punch­
this is how hP or making and humor makn it snnm out
Balsam, William Daniels arid
!inns as funny and as full of 
answers thi~ ev1'ryo11n PlsP or pla!'n for a 19(1:i black a11d irony and meaning as any­
phmw; "ll1\llo. is Barry Gordon who drn\s liv11 a white movi<i. !n fact. this Photo courlesy of Uniled Artists 
thing f'rom "Sf'inl'<•ld" or "Tlw this somronP more orthodox n•vi('W<'r's rc•action upon first Jason Robards and BarbaraSimpsons.". 
with good news or rnoll!'Y'i llfti tlin bad guys. lnstt•ad. seeing it was. "I didn't know 
Harris star in "A Thousand
The l'ilm tells t.he storv ol' 

(pauso) '.\io." llangs up. nv<'ry t:haractnr gnts an t lrn y m ad n rn ovi n s Iik n t. h is 
Clowns," a funny, insightful

Murray Hurns tplayl'i by 
But a tPam of' soda! work-opportunity to try to· c:onvinr<' back thc>n." In a limn wlwn 
comedy-drama that garnered

Jason Hobardsl. a Kramrr­
1-'rs. concnrncd by Nirk's Murrav Lo snttln down. with­bolh par1'nls arp f'orrt'U to 
a Best Picture nomination

lik1• P1Tnntrir tto <·ontinue Llw in('rf1asing ahs,:nr·.c l'rom out th;, snipt making a jok<' work. and whcn thP work­Sl'inf'r>ld r·omparison), who way back in 1965.
sc Ii ool. !'!Jill!' to Murrav and ol' tht•rn. Even the uptight wnck snPms lo gnt lo11gn and rcfusns to play soricity's ganw. try to convince him t;, fall sorial worker (William longf\J". thn qunst ions raisi~d l\lurrav is a ,,Titt>r \,\'ho has 
bafk into lht> fold and r1•join D a n ic~ I s l h () qo nt b I y go ts a in this ['ilm :i<'.Clll !Wen more nwaning that !ins b<'nPath tlw just qti"it his job ,ls head 
normal soC'i1•ty -h<'cause ch,llll'.(\ lo dnf'PJHI his !if<' rn!nvanl today. surf'acn. as WPI! as its wrih•r for thP. "ChurklPs tlw "ur1know11" status make it a
that is th!' prop~ir nnviron­clrnicns, and hn dons so V<'l'Y DPspitP all this. "A Chipmunk" show. finding tlw flH'ilt in which to raisn a child. convi11cingly. · Thousand Cl11wns" rnrnains a shockingly dclight/'ul surprisP 
I
L 


work rnmpktf'ly unsatisfying. 
And th<'v LhrPat<'n to take Martin Balsam, who won 11 !ittln SP<'n l'ilm. rarnlv shown wnl! worth a drivP to lnsLP<td. he spnnds his days 
Nick away if' he doesn't. Besl Supporting /\rlor award on TV or cable. Bul its intclli­Blockhustnr. Or bf'ttcr yd, raising his 12-vcar old So. the ('cntral conflict for /'or his rolP as Murray's broth­g<•nt humor. wond!'rl\il pnr­tak<' my frinnd's advirP and n " p hn, Nic k t an Osca r -'.\1urray b1'conws th<' qu<•stion er. Arnold. gives an impas-l'ormanc.c)S and profound acid it to your collection, 
ws-~ wwww
_.JJ--.. .. 

Thursday, April 6, 2000 page 17 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Secret societies, killer provosts abound in 'Skulls' 
By MIKE McMORROW '."icenc i\-1o~:ie (~riri( 
"Tlw Skulls" r!'r.<'iv,•s two shamrock halv1•s: on(' l'or tlw fact that it d1ws mak!'. on!' laugh on many occasions tallhough tlwy'r" unintPntional), and another !'or tlw fan that any moviP that ,·ontnins a killPr provost ·dr,servPs at t(•asl sonw C'rnlit. 
Yns. folks. din•rtor Hob Coht'll's nflw !'ilm has a charadnr who is llw chipf acild('llliC offic('f or ,m Ivy LPagu1~ Ulli­Vf'l'Sil_v but spr>nds rnort' 
tlrnir bank accounts. They also gr-1t ,t car. a girl "who knows f'Verytbing about you" and conirnctions beyond imagination. In addition, each inductee is pairnd up with another inducrne and the l'wo are declared "soul mates." Luke has the misl'ortunA of being paired with Calf,b Mandrako. who hap­peris to be the son of one of the group·s Plder lnaders. 
Everything bils tlw l'an. people die and accusations ar(! madf'. Luke wants out but can't because, of course. they can do anything they \Vant to him. 
The movie is so 
ol' his tinw giving ludi­poorly paced, arLed nous ins,(nP looks "The Skulls" and writtnn that it's 
,·atht•r than !(•1·turcs. hard to care evc\n the Thh will br• Lrt'iLSllrPd slighU-\Sl about any of !'or a long li11w. t.hn plot occurnmc·ns or 
Tlw Skulls is it Sl'lTl'L rnothat.ions. NevPr has
0111 ofti'ue shomrocf<s 
sm·jp\v at an anonvrnous th l' re be lm a ti mo Ivy l,;•aguP srhor;l. bul whr·n a movir that
Director: Roh Cohen
the l'ilm doPs Pnougb to takl's itsPlf so seriously !'lat out call il Yal!' lthc• Starring: Joshua Jackson, fails so miserably at its sl'hool's logo is a big PaulWalkerandCraigT.Nelson attPmpt to uncover any style. 

Jackson gives no depth to Luke. who could have at least shown some convir:­tion before the obligatory moral-high­grounded ending, which comes off as especially unearned and hokey. 
Truth be told, though, I enjoyed Craig 
T. Nelson's portrayal of Litten Mandrake. the evil and conniving father of Caleb. Nelson accomplishes two things: One, he makes the audience f'inallv react to a character; and two, makcis one wish "Coach" was still on the air. 
Of cours~, it wouldn't be appropriate to leave out thn killer provost. who by his very nature steals every scene he's in. If' the whole movie had been about 

the killer provost. thore might have been something worth watrhing. 
To close a review of "ThP Skulls" on a serious note is tough. but here is one thought: was there a movie to be made at all here? The plot and the set-up are ludicrous, but it may have worked had the movie been self-aware. Perhaps if the script required more panache from the actors (with the notable exceptions of the killer provost and the evil "Coach" Nelson), it could have worked as, what Roger Ebert terms, a Good Bad Movie: a movie that's aware of its ineptness and relishes in it. Or they could've just given the lead to the killer provost and had tlrn first Oscar-winner for "Best Actor in a Parody." 
"Y"). That nrnk1·s SP!lSP. lwrausP Llw Skulls sori­t't\' is mnsl lib•lv basPd on thP Skulls a~cl Bo1ws soc\~'.ty to which GoorgP Bush supposrclly bC'longrd. 
Thr l'il111 franws Lim story around tlrn 1:haractPr of Luke McNamara Uoshua Jarkson). a f"antastic rowPr for the ,rnw tram. Luke\ is not rich. lie is f'rom New l lavPn and attends on the basis of his rowing skills. 
;\flpr a big victory. Luke rncrives a phonr call asking him. "Are you rrady to bP rPborn':'" r,.,-o prizPs for g:uessing Lhat it's tlw bPginning of the Skulls ini­tiation pro,:ess. which consists of steal­ing tho mascot ol' anotlwr srcret socirty at tlw univPrsitv. Soon. LukP is an of'fi­r i a I 111 " 111 b<' r (1 I' tlw S k u l l s -s o b o thinks. 
This is some club. Hach nwmbPr gots a hugt' living room and b,~droom in a homt' similar to a l'rat-housr and gPts $20.000 automatically d!'positPd into 
Box OFFICE 
kind of rnmplexity in 
its 1·haracters. 
This is a fundamental problem, but it's worsnned by the fact that it moves along so gracelessly in the first place. There is no rontinuity or smoothness between scenes (which is -something that can be used ddiberately. but cer­tainly not here), and consequently therP is really no mounting suspense. It turns out to be an exercise in unintend­ed parody of everything that can be poorly done in ct movie. 
Thc> film's actors am really given nothing to do. thanks to the horrid lar:k of development. but even in their vapid roles the acting here really leaves something to be desired. Paul Walker is wooden as Caleb. who could have at !Past bPen a one-sided love-to-hate boor (which would have made the audi­e nr,e dislike him). But people were laughing at his appallingly unsteady dtdivory and altogether unr:onvincing 


I -Apr. 02 
Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales 
1
. Erin Brockovich $ 13.8 million $ 75.8 million 

2. 
The Road to El $ 12.8 million $ 12.8 million Dorado 

3. 
The Skulls $ 11 . 1 mill on $ 11 . 1 million 

4. 
Romeo Must Die $ 9.4 mill on $ 38.8 million 

5. 
High Fidelity $ 6.4 mill on $ 6.4 million 

6. 
American Beauty $ 5.4 mill on $ 116. 7 million 

7. 
Final Destination $ 5.4 mill on $ 28.3 million 

8. 
Mission to Mars $ 3.3 mill on $ 54.5 million 


•

9. 
Here on Earth $ 2.3 mill on $ 7.9 million 

10. 
Whatever It Takes $ 2.2 mill on $ 7.3 million 


Source: Yahoo' 

Though "Erin Brockovich" proved no April Fool, winning the first position at the box-office 
. 
for the third weekend in a row, the animated adventure "The Road to El Dorado" opened strong thanks to its family audience appeal. The big surprise though was the lightly pro­moted Joshua Jackson teen-thriller "The Skulls," which defied expectations with a very impressive opening. Appearing on significantly fewer screens, the critically acclaimed John Cusack film "High Fidelity" debuted in fifth place with a decent 6.4 million. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 6, 2000 
NBA 
Indiana takes New Jersey with help froin Rose, Miller 
Rose had six points during streak. Iverson made a steal. drove the George made it 95-81 with 6:21 
Associated Press 
Indiana's 14-pnint run, starting Kukoc had onA of his hnst all­floor and flipped to Kukor: for a remaining. 
with a jumper with 10:59 left in around games since joining the dunk that gave Philadelphia a Marshall hit a 3-pointer wit.h INDIANAPOLIS the period. His 19-foot jumper Sixers with 10 points, nine 26-16 lead. 2:50 left to cap a 15-7 run that Jal1m Rose made three free with 7:59 remaining ended the assists and eight rebounds. He Tlrn Six1-)rs then sr-i!'mf1d to lose pulled thA Warriors within six throws and Reggie Miller hit two nm. giving the Pacers a 62-47 Learned up with Iverson for a interest. for a while. Bimbo Coles points. and Sam Jacobson's fol­-all in the final 17 seconds -!Aad. couple of brilliant court-length scored fivfl points during an 1l-2 low shot with 2:13 left pulled as Indiana held off thr New passes. run. and thA Hawks eventually Golden State to 102-1)8. But Jersey Nets. 105-101. Tyrone Hill had 21 point.-., one tied it at 40 on a 3-pointcr by O'Neal added two more baskHts
Pistons 111, Celtics 106
Keith Van florn had 26 to lead shy of' his SPason-high. and Gfov1•r. and Brvant hit. fivn foul shots as
Grant Hill had 27 points and
an injury-plagurd New Jersey n~serv1~ l\.latt Geiger conlribute<l the Lakcrs held on for the win.
eight rebounds and the Detroit
team which was playing without nine points and 10 rebounds.
Pistons survived a 17-0 run to Lakers 111, Warriors 104
leading scorer Stephon Marbury The Sixers took sole possession
beat Boston sending the Celtics Despite the happy 1rnding, Rockets 118, Trailblazers 105
for the first time this season and of fourth place in I.he East ahead
to tlrnir ninth straight loss. Kobe Bryant might havt) had Shandon And!lrson had :rn
lost Evan Eschmever wilh a of idle Charlotte. 
The Pistons. winners of three more fun at the movies.. points and 10 rebounds as the
sprain0d left ankle Parly in the The Bawks, playing without
straight. moved within one game A day aftf1r ratching the film Houston Hockets used a blistPr­
second quarter. Marbury didn't injured starter Jim Jackson.
of Toronto for sixth place in the "llomeo Must Die" while sitting ing third quarter to stun the
makA the trip because he is have lost four in a row. seven of
Eastern Conference. out a one-game suspension, Portland Trail Blazers.
scheduled to have an MRI on a eight and 10 straight on the
Jerry Stackhousr had 22 Bryant was held to 16 points as Cuttino Mobley added 22 
sore right knee un Thursday. roarl. Hookie Dion Glover led
points for the Pislons, while the Los Angeles Lakcrs strug­points and Stnvc Francis and
Rik Smits scored 17 of his 25 Atlanta with 18 points. Dikembc
Lindsev Hunter added 18. gled to a win over the woeful Walt Williams each scored l 8
points in the first quarter to give Mutombo had 12 points, IG
Kenny Anderson led Boston Golden State Warriors. for the Hockcts. who broke a
Indiana a lead it never lost. rebounds and a sf'ason-high five
with 24 points, including eight in Shaquille O'Neal srored 49 nine-game losing streak and
Now Jersey trailed by as many assists.
the final (}() seconds, while Paul points as the Lakers won their beat a winning team away f'rorn 
as 20 points in the second half. After the Sixers squandArnd a
Pierce added 20 points, seven 11th straight game and dinched home for just the second time
but redur:ed its deficit to 98-97 HJ-point first-quarter l!~ad,
rebounds and six assists. homecourt advantage through­this season. 
on a 3-pointer by Van Horn with Kukoc and Iverson showed how
The Pistons Jr,d by as manv as out the playoffs. Los Angeles has Houston's last road win ovrlt" a
47.7 seconds remaining. dangnous this team can be in
13 i.n the first ha.If. but "ttrn won 30 of its last 31 games. team currently above .500 was
Sam Perkins then found DalA the playoffs. Kukoc dished to I!ill
Celtics wiped that out with a 17-Deveau George hit all four of har:k on Nov. 12, a 97-81 dflfeat
Davis open underneath Lhe bas­for a short jumper that made it
point run midway through the hi.s 3-point attempts and scored of the Los Angeles Lake rs. 
ket for a dunk with 33.4 sflconds 70-61. and Hill srorPd again on
second quarter. 14 points for the Lakers. The Steve Smith scored 24 points
left. Davis was fouled on the a fastbrnak layup before Kukoc
Detroit led bv 11 with 2:30 to rookie had hit just 10 3-pointers and Raslrnrd Wallacti had 21 to
shol, but missed lhc free throw made the play of the night.
go, but the Celtics kept coming all season before Wednesday lead the Trail Blazers. who had
and New Jersey got the rebound. The 6-foot-11 swingman
and two 3-pointers by Anderson night. won three straight.
Scott Burrell missed a layup grabbed a defensive rebound
pulled Boston to 108-105 with Bryant, suspended f'or fighting Houston trailed bv th roe at
off a drive and Rose snared the and spotted Iverson sprinting
20.4 seconds to go. N(nv York's Chris Childs on ha!llime but surged to· a 13-point
rebmmd. He was fouled and toward the other basket. He
Boston fouled Jerome Sunday, went 5-f'or-14 from Lhe lead by making 10 of its first 11
made both free throws, giving threw an 80-fooL. one-handed
Williams, and he missed 'the first field and was held six points shots in the third quarter while
Indiana a 102-97 lead. Kendall baseball pass that hit Iverson
free throw before hitting the sec­below his average. The Lakers the Blazers started 1-for-10. The
Gill's driving layup brought New perfer,tly in stride for a layup
ond to make it a four-point trailed l'or most of' the game, Hockets shot G7 pnrcnnt in the
Jersey to within three again and foul. Kukoc pumped his fist
game. Antoine Walker was regaining the lead only in the period, with Andnrson making
until Miller sank two free throws three times, and l\'erson missed
fouled, but could only split the Jina] ser:ond of the third pAriod. all six of his shots and scoring
with 11.2 remaining. Van Horn the free throw for a 7 4-(Jl lead
free throws. Stackhouse then hit Donyell Marshall had 32 15 points.
got a dunk with six seconds to with 2:23 left in the third.
two from the line to finally rlinch points and 18 rebounds for tlrn The Blazers managed to rut 
go and then Rose made one-of­The Sixers closed the quarter
the game. W;trriors. who lost their season­the lead to 85-80 by the fourth.
two free throws with 5.2 with their biggest lead to that
Boston led 50-46 at the half high Aighth straight homn game. but Ilouston stayed hot. An awk­
remaining. point, 81-66, on a three-point
and increased its margin to as Goldr,n State has lost 10 ward. leaning jump!\r off tlw
Johnny Newman scored 20 for play by Hill.
many as seven early in the third, straight overall, and J8 of 19. glass by Matt Bullard pushed tlw
New Jeisey, while Gill and Elliot Moments later, though, it
but couldn't find a way to stop This is the srcond time thn lead to %-88, and a 3-pointer by
Perry had 14 apier:e. became dear that the Sixers am
Hill, who finished with 13 in tlrn Warriors have had a 10-game Francis made it 98-89 with 6:44
Indiana had five players in still having trouble adjusting to
period. losing streak this season -thr,y left.
double figures. Hose finished Kukoc. Loping past the 3-point
Six or those came in a 12-3 lost 12 straight in Decembr,r and A layup and f'oul shot by
with 17 and 10 rebounds. Davis line, Kukor shouted to an immo­
run that helped Detroit take a January. Anderson made it 106-93 with
also had a double-double with bile Iverson. "Move!"
73-68 lead, and the Pistons also After trailing 51-47 at half­4:30 to go. 
11 points and 11 boards, while Iverson did, and Kukoc drovf)
scored the final six points of thr, time, the Lakr,rs pulled ahead Ilouston shot an amazing 73
Mark Jackson scored 16. to the basket leading to a put­
period to takA an 80-71 advan­77-75 rmtering thn fourth quar­percent in the second half. going 
The victory reduced Indiana's back, by Geiger for an 83-66
tage. tf!r as O'Neal scored 18 points 25-of-34. induding 11-.for-l 3 (85 
number for clinching a serond lead with 11 :23 lcf't. 
while going 5-f'or-5 from the percent) int.he fourth quarter.
consecutive Central Division title The Sixcrs built a 10-poinl 
field in thr, third p11riod. Bryant The BlazPrs led bv as manv as
to anv combination of two 76ers 107, Hawks 86 lead in the first quarter. shoot­
hit c1 3-poinlnr with one-tenth of' six points in the se;:ond qw;rtnr
Pacers victories or CharlottA Allen Iverson scored 30 poinl'i ing a snason-high 70 percent 
a sr,cond left in the third to give but !'ell !lat in the third. missing
losses. It also put Indiana 2 1-2 and Toni Kukoc asserted himself (14-for-20). They capped the 
Los Angr,les its lirst lnad since nine straight shots al't<'r WallacP 
games ahead of \1iami in the in the offense as thA Jlurry with two plays that sym­
the opnning quarter. hit a short jumper to put the 
race for home court advantage Philadelphia 76ers defeated the bolized how easy the night 
Brian Shaw and George hit Blazers ahead 55-52.
throughout the Ea.stern Atlanta Hawks. would be. 
consecutive 3-point<Jrs to op<rn Williams started the Hockets'
Conference playoffs. Despite a broken left toe that Kukoc got tlrn ball at the foul 
tho fourth period and give the 15-0 run with consecutive 3­
Indiana appeared to h,we bro­left him with a slight limp, line, faked an undrrhanded pass 
Lakers an 83-75 lead.and two pointers, and Kenny Thomas
.. 
ken the game open as it scored Iverson had all of his usual to a cutting Iverson and hit a 
straight baskets by O''\leal made added a 3 and a fastbreak layup
J4 consr,cutive points in an 18-2 explosiveness as the Sixers jumper to make it 24-HJ Thnn 
it 87-77. Another 3-pninier by to help wid!)n the lead to 67-55. 
run early in the third quarter. ended a three-game losing 
The Observer accepts cbssifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
"II classifieds for comcnt without issuing refunds. 

SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART Fax it lastr I wonder if I'm approachable EDUCATION ASST for Snite Fax it fast! 
NOTICES Museum of Art FOR RENT FOR SALE Fax it fast! Hot crew guy can approach me Assist Education Curator with sum-Sending & Receiving anytime he wants. mer youtt1 art program focusing on Large clean 2+ bedroom with base-Like new, Man's 14K Yellow Gold 5 
THE COPY SHOP museum ob1ects and related hands-ment and garage. Top 1Ioor of very Diamond Wedding Band. Appraised THE COPY SHOP Oh, and that goes for the Knott laFor1une Student Center on activities clean duplex near ND. Ideal for sin-$900, Best offer. 289-8509 LaFortune Student Center hottie in my history section. 
June5th to July 28th, 10 hrs/week. gle grarlw,te student wanting space Tir,kets Our Fax# (219) 631-3291 Store Hours Fine Arts maJor with exp. teaching arid convenience. $600/mo plus And I didn't mean that to be a play Mon-Thur: 7 30am-Mid and/or working with children pre-utilities, deposit 674-1670 Erin. I will show you mine. on words. Fri; 7:30am-7;00pm /erred Sat: Noon-6:00pm June 26th to July 28th additional APARTMENT FOR SUMMER SUB-PERSONAL I want to go to Bake(s Square on He has red hair. Sun: Noon-Mid Work Study hours-if eligible-with LEASE! College Park · 2 bedrooms. Friday. I want French toast and 
Nation::il Youth Sports Program to furnished. Call 243-8194 -Oui-san? eggs. And pie. And soup in a I like red hair. Free Pick-Up & Delivery! make a total of 40 hours/wk if Yes? bread bowl. And apple juice. desired. -I have just obtained the ingredients Someone in this office would be Call 631-COPY PLUS room and board included B&B 287-4545 In Challenger's frying pan! Let's I want watermelon from Meijer. approachable if tie didn't have 
• 
June 26th lo July 28th take a look at the instant replay! barbecue sauce all over his shirt. We're open late so your order will CALL education curator Shannon NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND-Erin doesn't like watermelon. be done on time! Masterson, 631-4435, ASAP GOOD AREA 277-3097 I love you, Michael Peter Quinn. Or if he ever changed his shirt. 
CURATORIAL ASSISTANT: want· You're my number one all lhe way1 She doesn't like any kind of melon. ed for Snite Museum of Art Work RENTAL HOUSES FOR 4-6 STU-Ice that foot or you'll end up a crip-Or if lie ever showered. study is available 10-15 hrs/wk for DENTS WITH LARGE ROOMS. pied gimp like me. Thanks for the Erin's kincJ of a strange duck. 2000-01 school year. W&D. 291-2209 Ask for Dave shake, I kept It down. You rock. But he has a car.
WANTED 
Responsibill!ies include scheduling But I love her anyway' 
tours ancJ entering computer info. Need help with a project? Which is how I'll get my Baker's SUMMER JOB: Caregiver; two chil-Fine Arts major with knowledge of NEED A PLACE TO STAY FOR I LOVE YOU, E-DOGG!! Square and my watermelon. dren, ages 7&8. FileMaker Pro and design programs THE SUMMER? 2 rooms avail., low Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING Mon-Fn.7·30AM-3:15PM. preferred but not necessary. Call rent, within a few IJlocks ol campus services are available at Mindy -now she's cool. Woo hoo -new Friday night plans. Jun 12-Aug 18 curator of education Shannon Completely furnished house THE COPY SHOP Granger. Masterson at 631-4435 for more Please call Sam at 287-3006 or LaFortune Student Center And very approachable, I might Did I mention that I have an acute 272-6107 or 284-3485 info. Ken at 4-3482. Call 631-COPY add. lack of a soul? Well, I do. 
Thumby, Anril 6, 2000 .,..,_ Ob . SPORTS
-=--=--=--=--=--=---=--r-~=====-=-==============-===================1=,r;e==s=er=ve='r=========================~-==~======:=========~p;a~ge~l~9 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Orioles' Erickson returns to mound 
,\ssodated Press 
B,\LTIMOBE 

Srot.l l;rirkson. striving for an Parli(,r than nxpnct­«'d I'!' Lu r11 !'rum Llw disablt•d list. IPSL<-d his right f\lbow \\11•d1wsday by throv,i11g f'or I/, minutPs oil a mound 
l·:ric kson {'11 lP r<, cl spring lrnining ns l111• No. 2 man in lhP BaltimorP OriolPs' starling rolation. bul he has b1•1·n sicfrlinnd sincP having borw chips 1·r,movr•d rro111 his ,dbow Parlv lasL month. Tlw right-hiu1dPr s,Lid LhrcP \\Tl'k.s a~o that lw w11uld lik1• lo rNurn in :\la,·. but his latPst sc•ssion h,11-i thl' OriolPs thinking lw might g1·t back soo,wr. 
"IL was vPry 1·nrountg­i 11 g . .. p i ll' h i11 g ('. 0 H I' h Snmmv 1:llis said. "I don't l..110,\ .if' tl11:; puls US an:­1·losl'!'. but his throwing loo!-.s prdly goud to tnP. l•:vPrything b1•ars straight alwad." 
l<'.rk kson has lw,•n work­ing i'('Vl'rishly Lo gl't b,lrk i 11 to a r o I a ti II n that c· u r ­r1•11tly !'t>,tturr•s Calvin \tad urn and Josi' !\!Prr('dc•s. both ol' whom s1wnt all last s1•aso11 in th,· minors. 
"ThP plan is tu get 11-:rir!-.son'sl VPlocilv wlwn• iI sh o ll l d bc• . " n{a n a g {' r hlik,• llargrnv(' said. "\\'1•·r(' looking at arm strl'ngth as llltll'h as anything." 
Thi• Oriol1•s· bigg,,sL worry is l·:rirkson will push himsPlr tDo hard. 
"You don't want to bi· loo friskv." l•:llis said. "'You\r• just got lo K('('P building. 
k('cp adding a little bit." 
Tlrn rehabilitation prornss will prnbably ond with at lt~ast two starts in the minors. 
"It dnpPnds on how ho do1\S in the first one." 1largrove said. 
hrickson ·s absonrP from the rotation nrnans No. 3 man Pat Bapp will start Thursdav in the rinalP of th c Oric;l <) s' thrrrn -game soriP-s against Clcv()land. 
All things considf'rnd. Happ .rnuld havo prcl'crrnd to mako his Baltimorn drbut against anyonr but tlrn Indians. 
"Thry've hit me pr<'lty good in th<' past." Happ said WPdncsdav. "Whnn I farnd thrm last" vrar, llrnv got rivP runs without g,,i­tiug an out. Thim Travis Fryman hit a bullet that bounrPd off my Ing right to tlw first basPrnan. I srttlrd dowu aftnr thal.·• 
lhlpp lrn.s a 1.(14 lil'<'tinw EHA in four gamos at Camden Yards. !In hopos that won't change dramati­nll!y now that he's pitching !'or. nol against. thn Orioles. 
"I don't think it will bP any diffen,nl," hr\ said. ''I'll just try to pitch my ganw. Ev Pry lhi n g f'n e Is kind of normal now. but I'm surP it will get mon' intcns1' wlwn I g1,t oul therP ... 
Happ was 2-1 with a 3.9(i EHA in s i x g a 1111• s t h is spring. BPst of all. lw had a :1-2 st1·ikPout to walk ratio. OvPr tlw past two sPasons. lw had 222 strikC'Ouls com­pan,d to 17() v,alks. 
-
I 
Average salary hits $2 million 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK ThPsA days. a $2 million baseball player is just avArage. Just. eight years af'tu the avoragn salary broke tho mil­
1ion -do l I a r mark. it rrnar­ly reached $2 million on oponing day, !'ailing jusl short at $1.988,0'.1-l, 


according-to a "':1~·~~""""''---'-'·~...._._ study of all 
Griffey

major leagu1~ cont1"acts by TIH1 Associated 
Press. 
"l don't know if it is negative or positive for tlrn ganrn," New York MPts r.atrlrnr l\.iike Piazza said. "It n•wards guys with tal­nnl who havr, worked hard all their livns, rodP. th<' buses in tlw minors and 110\\. arr gotting pai,? Vl•ry woll ['or what they 
do. 
When Piazza first canw up to llw major leagues in 199:,. he made $126,000 This vPar, he's making $12,071,429: and that only puts him sixth. 
Dodgers pitcher Kevin Brown is No. I at $15.714.286, only slightly IP-ss than the $16.519.500 the Minnesota Twins arP-paying tlwir P-ntirt~ roslnr. 
Arizona pitchPr Handy Johnson is second at $13.35 million. f'ollovved bv Baltimore 
o ut!'i c;ld Pr Al be; rt Be!Ie ( $ 1 2 , 8 <, 8 . 6 7 0 ) . Nnw Yo r k Ya n k (1 cs o u t l'i 1: l d r, r Bt, r n ie Williams ($12.:-157.143) and Colorado outf'icldnr l.arrv \Valkn ($12.142.857). · 
Belln had lwen No. 1 the pre­vicJUs thnw seasons. 
Cinc:innali':-. Ken GriffPV Jr. is only 19th at $9.329.700_-which inrlud!'s $7 million in salary. 


Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 
TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 
QO@@~LJ[1@[ru@0®COLLeGe nlGHT 
SOUTH BEND1 S BIGGEST PARTY 
(wnh college I.D., must be 21) 
and lots of other stuff for a buck, too.
$1COVEA 

F«If7AY , AP«Il-7 
STRAIGHT/\W/\Y 
FEATURING THE BIGGEST VIDEO SHOW IN SOUTH BEND 
FRIDAY, APRIL 21 LOCAL ff 
For ticket info call the Heartland Concert & Event Line: 219.251.2568 222 S. Michigan • South Bend • 219.2345200 wwwaccplam.com/heanland 
$625,000 as the rema1n111g share of the signing bonus from his St>attl0, -contract and $1,704,700. which represents thn :woo value of $5.5 million in deferred payments. Whiln Cincinnati gave Griffey a $116.!'i million. nine-year con­tracl, $57.5 million is deferred and won't even start earning interest until 2009. 
"H Lhe salaries continue to escalate and you don't have revcnur~s that r.ome clos(\ to staying even. then you're in trouble, and that's where we 
are," said Diamondbacks ·owner Jerry Colangelo, who pays Johnson every two weeks. "I don't think anyonA r,ould say it's a healthy sign. There needs to be a change in the economic sr~em...That's just clPar and d1strnct. 
The average went up 15.6 percent from $1.720.050. near­ly as much as the 19.3 percent increase last season. 
Salaries havP incrcas(~cl 85.6 perr.ent from the nnd or the 1994-95, when the average was $1,071,029 on opening day. The NBA averagA is $3.5 mil­lion this season. and the NHL avnragc was $1.297.000 in 1998-99. the last season for which figures are arnilablP-. In the recently completed season. NFL players averaged $1,043,000. 
"It's just part of ro\lenue," Texas shortstop HoycP Clayton said. "When they'ro selling organizations for morP-than $300 million, that's a lot or money and a lot or wealth to be spread around. It's not greed; 1,ve are not trying to take more Lhan what's in the pot It's in the pot. so we just distribute it however they feel each player's worth is." 
The New York Yankees. at $92.538,260, have tlw higlw.st payroll for thn second straight 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•.Uset;I boots bought m4 sold 
• 25,000 Hardback and . . Paperback books in stock 
• 
Out-of-Print search service: $2.00 . 

• 
Appmisals large and small 


-Open noon to six 
Tuesday through Sunday . · 1027 E. Wayne · South Bend,·IN 46617 
(21'9) 232-34,,!4 •. 

year. followed by Los Angeles ($88.l million), Atlanta ($84_5 million), Baltimore ($81.4 mil­lion) and Arizona ($81.0 mil­lion). 
Last year, all eight playoff teams were among the top 10 spP-nders. If that holds this year. the culoft' would be Tampa Bay, 10th at $(i2.7 mil­lion. 
llow<wcr, trades and otlrnr rostP.r moves. and r)('rf'ormancn bonusr1s change payrolls during the season. and St. l.ouis. Colorado. the Chicago Cubs. Scuttle and Dntroit all have payrolls between $58 million and $62 million. 
The Yankees' payroll is near­ly six times the size of Minnesota's. Also rrnar th<' bot­tom are Florida ($20.1 million), Kansas City /$23.4 million) and Pittsburgh ·{$28.9 million) 
The number of plavi\rs at $1 million or more rose· f'rorn :-348 lo 377. 44.8 perc()nt of the 840 players on opening-clay rosters and disablPd lists. ThosP at $2 million rosP-from 254 to 277. 
At the top of the scaln. the number of players making $9 million or more doubl1~d to 20. 
Tht1 median salarv•-the point al \Vhich an cqua"i nu mbcr of players arc above and below -was $750,000. up from 
$700.000  last  year  and  
$275,000 at  thr  end or thl'  
strike.  

Those at Lhr $200.000 mini, mum. whi"h is higlrnr than the average prior to 1982. dropped from (l8 lo 46. 
"Sure it's a lot of money," Texas first basP-nran David Segui said. "But look, tlrn stadi­ums am full and look at thP monr.y they are making off tele­vision. Tlw industry g<'ncrates that kind of revcnuP and with­out tlw players. who's going to watch? .101\ Blow can't play at this IPvel." 
Contract f'igurPs wPrP obtained bv llw Al' from vari­ous playP1: and manag<>mPnt souret•s and inrludP a player's 1991) salary plus a prorated shan~ or any signing bonus or guarantPod inconw not attrib­ulPd to a spPrilk yPar. Portions or salaries dPl'rrrPd without intcrP-st an• disrountNI to prP­sP.nt-day valu<'. 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Force ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 


Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of qualities that count for leadership. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, 
now. 

Making Leaders for tlv: Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
.,_ I I 
page 20 7he Oh.l"l'rver . SPORTS Thursday, April 6, 2000 
==================----======================--:::-=-================================================== 
-Athletes see benefits of corrective eye surgery 
As<ociated Press 

NEW YOH!-: 
Atlanta 13raves pitrher (;r,,g Maddux had lasn surgery lo correct his vision in July. llv won nine of his next 10 games. 
T i g e r 
Wouds had the operation in October. lie won his nrxt live l'GA tour events. 
C o i n ­ridenre'J 
No one 


knows for Woods sum. but hundreds of' athletes in sporl after sport -baseball. golf auto racing and even kickboxing -are turning tu the surgery lo boost their performand. 
Seizing on an obvious market­ing tool. eye doctors m·c touling tlrnir athlete-custonrnrs. hclpin;.; accelerate public arcl'ptance ol' the surgery. 
"This b Lhr bc~st thing I nv1T bought myself." said Maddu:-. ll"ho now has 20-1 !'i nyrsight and !>il}'S !in can focus on houw plat!' bt>lt1•r than ever. 
This yPar about l.S million blurrv-Hved /\mericans arP P:-.:pi-ct«-d ·10 havP Lhe opPriltion in hopc'.S or lhrnwing away Llwir gfassPs and contacts. up from I million in 199'). 
The most popular typP is ,·,tlh~d l,ASIK. whir,h stands l'or l,tS(' r in-situ kc ratomilc usis. It n•f1irs lo Lim process of r:u Lling a l'lap in th<' cornea -tlw 1\y1'.· ball"s oul(1r coaling -and l"l'shaping it with a sharp lnsN !warn. IL rosts about $1.:iOO to $~.:iOO 1wr r.yc. 
\Vhi]P JASIK is fost and pain­lPss. for the most part. th1'1'1' i'illl lw cumplicalions for a small numlwr of patients. Thi' .\1111·rican Academv of Ophthalmology cstimute~ that l p1•1Tc•11t to :i percent dc'V<'lop such probll'ms as blurrrd vision and nighttime glan~. In addition. 
NFL 

Vikings still atop George's wish list 
Associated Press 

!·:DI•:~ l'H:\IHIF. 'Vfinn. 
Jeff George's agent said W(•dn11sday that Minnesota remains his client's destination of 1·.hoil'.n dnspito flirta­tions from the Washington Hedskins and thn Vikings' dal­liance with other quarterbarks. 
"There's an irnpassp in negotiations. but we'rn not going to willingly walk away !"rom ~lin1rnsota." agent Leigh Steinberg said. "One qu<'stion lhal is troubling is what if'JeffGeorge takes the Vikings l11 tlw Supcr Bowl"" 
Coach Dennis Green has said Dau11t1• Culp!'pper will be his starting quarterback in 200 I and has insisted lw won't budge from his one-year olTnr to CPorgr,, who was 9-3 for the Vikings last year. 
Redskins ownnr Dan SnydPr bumiwd into Strinberg during last week's NFL meetings in !'aim BPa.r.h. Fla.. and initiated talks about George. Tiw lh!dskins reportedly are dangling a two-year offer for about $4 million for George to back up starter Brad Johnson. 
So. it comes down to this: WDuld (;1,orgP rather make more money to be a backup in \Vashinglon or swallow his pride. and start again in 1'-linn(•sota. knowing he'll basically b<' shopping himself to otlwr t11ams all 1rnxt sea­son? 
"Jeff's preforencc is still Minn1•solil.·· Stt•inlwrg insisted. It's jusl a rnattrr of finding rn111111011 ;.;round on the con­tract. he said. 
A source closP to negotiations who spok,• on condition of anonymity said the Vikings ha\i' offl·red George a $500,000 contract. slightly more· than llw league mini­mum for a 10-year veteran. with SI million morn avail­able in incentives. 
George wants morn than a mw-yc•ar dral. 
George signed a one-year. S400.000 last year and 
made about $1.1 million in i11cenliv1•s aJ"tcr replacing 
Randall Cunningham and guiding llw Vikings into thP 
playoffs. where they bPat Dallas and IDst to St. Louis. 
George expected tlw Vikings L11 ulf1'r a multi-y<\ar dral, 
but Green instead offered th!' slarting quarterback job 
back to Cunningham. who rcJ'us,·d a massive pay c:ut and 
will likely be \.vaiVPd June 1. 

Green then offered thr job to Dan ~'iarino, who retired 
instead. and then insistrd CulpPpJwr \\"ould ht> his startPr 
in 2000. 

Green then rel en tnl, saying (;.-or~,, cou Id sign a orni­vear deal for minimum money and start in 2000 while serving as a mentor to Culp<'ppt>r. llw 11th pick in lasl vear·s dratl. · Either way, Green insists thr: job i,-, Culpl'pµ,ir's in 2001. 
"That's the othPr troubling aspPrt 1.c•t",; suppose Jeff 
Lakes them to the Super 13owl 1w,L y1•ar. Who's the quar­
terback for the vear after?" Steinlwrg said. 
Thf! Vikings an) growing impalit'lll with (;porge's l'ail­ure to accept their bard-line ol'l'n and Ml~ pursuing other options such as Hubby Briswr, who would bn Culpeppr,r's backup. 
Steinberg said he believAd lhc\ situalion will be rnsolved 
one way or another by werk's r:ml. 
If the Vikings rescind their o!Ti·r or sign another veter­
an. Steinberg said hr would cull bw'.k ollrnr Leams that 
inquired about Georgr. two months ago. Stcinbrrg has 
said he rebuffed four teams bl'rausl' lw was sure the 
Vikings WPre just clearing cap room to offr•r his cli<>nl. a 
long-term deal. 
llw long-term rons11qucncns an· irnpossiblt' to know lrncausP. tlw pr111·1,dun• has only bnAn on thn markl'l a f,,.,,1· y«-;u·s. 
ExpPl'ls also caution th,~ surgn~· is not !"or rwryrn11,. 
,v h i I I' tPPnagPrs 111i'i,!;ht 
½a1it. 1.o 1•111ulah~ "This is lhe best thing I tlwir l'avoril!• 
ever bought myse(f." 
athlt'l''· clndors discourngu il !'or nnvorw undN 20 Greg Maddux b1:caus1• Lhtdr 
Atlanta Braves pitcher 

are bigger," Woods said in a recent interview. "The hole is bigger. the ball is bigger. dubs are bigger." 
Dr. llohrrt Maloney. a Los Angeles ophthalmologist, said celebrities arc a distinct draw­ing card. 
"The acc(~ptance by profes­sionnl golfers has brought a huge number or amatt'ur golfers into our practice," said Maloney, who has also per­fornrnd llrn procr,durc on musi­cians Kenny (;. and Barry Manilow. 
New York Yankees slugger Bernie Williams said hP careful­ly researchrd thr procedure brforn having it done in NovPmber. 
"It's nothing short of miracu­lous," Williams said. "I saw the succP.ss a lot of peopln havr had with it. I did some research. I talk<'d to doctors, oth<'r patients, othni-players who've had it. and I got enough confidence in the wholn thing to get it done." 
1•v1•siglH rnav -;I ill b1• !"hang­i11g. 
Also rludors ruin out sonrn pnopll' /)1'1'at1sl' 111' tlrn curvaturn illld Lhick1wss or tlrn cornea. 
i\s the 1111mlwr of dorlors p11r­f"u rm i11 g till' pru1'.cduro has inne:asPd. consumers are ser.­ing mort' ;Ldvl'rtising with 1:1•lt'L)l'iLv ci11dorsc11wnts. 
TI.C I::ts1•r hYt> C1intc-!rs. basr<l in Ont:tr·iu. C,t.nada. has signnd 1'11Clors1•11wnl d1·als with Woods and II'!;·\ gctlrN Sn lli Pak. 

"The average .Joe is very s1:u rnd of it." said TLC chirf c•x1•1'.11tivn Elias Vamvakas. ''But whPn th1:v srH1 athlf'tes lik,~ Tig1)r do it ·limy think it must be 1dTcc:tirn ii" they go to the right 
;,;urg('l'Y al a 1:11Jrida.' \\'oocls had 

plac!i," he said. 
Woods, who is the favorite lo win tho Masters that .starts Thursday. had !.Im 
TLC r.enlcr in 
worn contacts 
1h1·oughout his rarnt'r. causing him problnms when allr:rgies kil'kc'd in. Ile also said it had bt•Pn difficult to gaug<) long putl.._, but the eye surgery givPs him a 1·.Inarcr view of thr 
('Otll'S(~. 

··No\\' llrnl I'm normal. one of' tlw 1hi11gs that appPars to me is th1' slop1)s arc biggnr. ob.iects 
THERE'S ONE GREAT THING ABOUT GOING FISHING HERE I THERE'S NO LIMIT. 

THE DELICIOUS BK BIG FISH® VALUE MEAL. After one bite, you'll be hooked on our tasty fish file! topped with fresh lettuce and tangy tartar sauce along with crispy fries and an_ ice-cold drink. And best of all, this is one fishing spot that never runs out. 

HAVE IT YOUR WAY~ 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 

,-­
Thursday, April 6, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Johnson·, Belle hon1ers boost Orioles above Indians 
Associated Press 
BAI.TIMOHE 

Charlr.s Johnson homerBd twicA and drove in l'ivc runs WP-dnnsday night as Baltimore beat tbc Cleveland Indians, 11-7. giving Mike llargrovn his first Yic·tory as manager of the Oriolns. 
Johnson's second homPr. a two-run shot in lhe (~ighth inning of'f former Oriole Scott Kamirniecki (0-1 ), snappod a 7-7 U1i lie also hit a thrne-ru11 hom(!r to givP Baltimore a 7-6 lead in Lhe sixth. 
Last your, Johnson struggled against C.lnvr.land. going just 2­l'or-27 with 01m HBI. and also startnd lh<' s(•ason in a slump. hitting .17(i with one honw run. 
Albert Hdln hit a thnw-run homPr for thP Oriolr.s. who rebounded l'rom an opening day loss to llargroVP's formf'r tram. Cul Hipkcn went O-for-4 and rnmaincd eight hits short of 3.000. 
Charlie Manuel. llargrove's rcplarr.mr.nt in Chwdand, was cjr.cted in his srcond game as a 
m,~jor league manager. Manuel 
was c:omplaining about the strike zone l'rom thr duguut when homr platr urnpirr Ed Hapuano oustl'd him in tlw third inning. 
.lim Thoml' homl'r!'d and Omar Vizque:I had thrl'I' hils for tl111 Indians. who scored two runs on wild pitches and two on bases-loaded walks. 
Bdk's honwr off Chuck Finlev put llw Oriol(\S up 3-0 in the first inning. Tlw Indians scort'd !ivP runs in tlw S('rnnd and !Pd 6-4 in the sixth before Johnson con­nected off Steve Beed to give Baltimore·a short-lived lead. 
Cleveland made it 7-7 in thr seventh when Kenny Lofton reached on an error, took third un a single by Vizquel and scored on a wild pitch by Chuck McElroy. 
Will Clark hit a one-out single in the eighth and Johnson fol­lowed by driving a 2-·1 pitch deep into the left-field scats. H.J. Surhoff iced the victory with a two-run, two-out doubl0 off Tom Martin. 
B.J. Hyun (1-0l got lhe last out in the eighth to earn hL'l sor,ond ma,jor league win. 
Finley, making his df\but with Clrweland after spending his pn~­vi ous 14 seasons with the Angels, allowed four runs on four hits in five innings but was in position to get the victory before Johnson homered off llefld. 
Cleveland batted around in the second, using three hits and three walks to go up ::i-3. After Sidney Ponson issued successive bases-loaded walks. David Justice scored on a wild pitch bcl'orn Vizquel hit a two-run doublR. 
Royals 4, Blue Jays 3 
Joe Randa homered twice and Jose Hosado allowed just two hits in six innings Wednesday night, lr,ading the Kansas City Hoyals ovr,r the Toronto Blue .lays. 
Handa, who drove in three runs, homered in the second inning for Kansas City's first run. tlwn made it 3-0 in the seventh with a homer off the facing of SkvOome's third deck in left neid. He walked with the bases loaded in the Pighth against Paul Quantrill. the reliever's third straight walk. 
Hosado fl-0) look a shutout into the seventh bf'forr. a walk to Carlos IMgado followed by Tony Batista's RBI double off the glove of center fielder Carlos Beltran. Alex Gonzalez's bloop single off Jose Santiago made it 3-2, but pinch-hitter Darrin Fletcher grounded out and Shannon Stewan flied out. 
Hosado, who allowed 12 runs in 11 innings during spring training-, allowed two runs and thn~e hit<: in sLx-plus innings. 
Hicky Bottalico got three outs for his first save·, allowing Batista's third homer of the sea­son. Jose Cruz Jr. then walked with on,\ out, sto!C' second and took third when catcher Brian Johnson's throw bounr:ed into center field for an error. But Gonzalez grounded to third, and Cruz got taggpd out in a run­down as Gonzalez took second. and Fletcher grounded to tirst, ending the game. 
Chris Carpenter (0-1), chased from his last spring training start by a line drive off his right elbow, gave up three runs and four hits in 6 2-3 innings. 
A's 8, Tigers 2 
The Oakland Athletics are built for power, with live players who hit more than 20 homers last season. Little did they expect that 5-foot-9 Frank Menechino would be their leading slugger after three games. 
Menechino, playing in place of the injurrd Randy Volarde, hit his second homer in three games and added a run-scoring groundnut in a three-run third as the A's defeated the Detroit Tigers. 
Mencchino, who spent seven seasons in the minors before making his major league debut with the A's last September, is tied with Jason Giambi for thf' team lead in homers and tops the A's with a 1.100 slugging perCfmtage. 
Eric Chavez also homered for the A's, Matt Stairs had an CTBI single and Giambi, 13en Grieve and Hamon Hernandez all added sacrifice flies. 
Omar Olivares allowed two runs and six hits in 7 l-3 innings as the A's, who took two of throe from Detroit, won their opening series of thn season for the first time since 1993. 
Tony Clark drove in the Tigers' first run with a sixth-inning sin­gle, but Olivares avoided further trouble by getting Damion Easley on an inning-ending, double-play grounder with two on. 
Detroit added another run in the eighth on an error by short­stop Miguel Tejada. But Mike Magnante relieved Olivares and got Clark to hit into an inning­ending double play vvith runners on first and second. 
Twins 10, Devil Rays 7 
Matt Lawton's three-run homer off Rick White with nobody out in the ninth inning lifted the Minnesota Twins to a victory over the stunned Tampa Bay Devil Rays. 

Lawton's first homer capped a comeback that began with the Twins down 7-1 with just six ouLc; to go. It was the 11th time the Twins had overcome a six­run deficit. 
White (0-1) gave up singles to Todd Walker and Cristian Guzman beforfl Lawton's 417­foot shot to right field made a winner of Eddie Guardado (1-0), who struck out two in one inning of work. 
It was the second come-from­behind victory for the Twins in 24 hours. On Tuesday night, the Twins had a two-run ninth­inning rally to beat Tampa Bay. 
Esteban Yan made the most of' his promotion to Tampa Bay's starting rotation, scattering three hits in seven innings and leaving his bullpen a 7-1 lead that it frittered away in the eighth. 
Yun, who spent his first two seasons with Tampa Bay in tho bullpen, gave up an unearned run, walked one and struck out three. 
The Devil Rays were cruising with a 7-1 lead before the bullpen surrendPrcd six runs in the eighth. 
Butch Huskey hit a run-scoring double off Dave Eiland, bringing on Jim Morris, who surrendered an RBI single to Corey Koskie. That made it 7-3 and the Devil Rays summoned Albie Lopez, who loaded the bases by walking Ron Coomer before Jacque .Jones' infield single made it 7-4. 
Pinch-hitter Midre Cummings hit a three-run double that bare­ly eluded the grasp of Dave Martinez in shallow right field. 

LectuRe notes . exam PreparAtion . novel notEs (Among otHer crowo pLeasinG acaoemic rools) 
-always (i 440.365) oPen­

... 
Where to go when you need to know:-' 
r 
IP ----~-----·
-

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 6, 2000 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Aurilia lifts Giants over Marlins, despite sloppy play 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Rich Aurilia hit a three-run homer with one out in the ninth inning and the San Francisco Giants came from behind twir:f' to beat thP Florida Marlins 11-9 Wednesday night. 
Trailing 9-7. the Giants slartl'd thP ninth \\ith singlf's by Barry Bonds. Jeff KenL and pinch hit­ter Ft>lipt> Crespo to sr.orc a run against Antonio Alfonscrn (0-1). following a forceout. Aurilia hit his first honrnr on the first pitch. 
ThP Gianls OV<\rraHw a 5--t deficit on Ken1's three-run homer in the fifth. They blew leads of 3-0, 4-1 and 7-5. 
The sloppy but exriting ganrn drew a crowd of 8.3(,5. the smallest at Pro Plaver Stadium in the t\fa.rlins' righ.t-yf'ar histo­
rv. ·John Johnstone (l•Ol gav(' up onP nm in l ]-~ innings. Hobb NPn pitrht>d a perfcr.t ninth for his second save. 
Florida scorPd three runs in the sPvPnth and took advantage of a two-out passed hall on a strikeout to take an 8-7 load. 
With thP score 7-all. Mark Kotsay swung and missed on a 2-2 pitch from Felix Rodriguez, but the pitch glanr.Pd off n1trher Bobby Esta!Plla's glove and sailPd over his head to thn bark­stop. 
The Ylar!ins made it 9-7 on Derrirk Lee's RBI single in the eighth. their 12th hit. San Franrisro had 15 hil">. 
Kevin \'lillar had a two-run homer and an RBI single for the Marlins. 

The Giants scored three in the first against Vladimir Nunez. Bill Mueller doublPd, Bonds walkAd and Kent doubled home a run. Ellis Burks hit a sacrifice 11v. and 
J.T. Snow drovr in a run ~vith a two-out single. 
San Francisco added an u11earn11d run in tlrn second. EstalPlla doubled. took third when :'-Iunez bobbled a sacrifice bunt for an f'rror. then scored on Marvin BPnard's groundout. 
Luis Castillo led off Florida's first \Vith a triple and sr,orcd on a two-out single' by Mikr Lowell. Mik(~ HPdmond led off the sec­ond wilh his first trip!P in 364 nircwr at-bats. Lhen scored on NunPz's groundout_ 
Florida tied the ganrn in the third wlwn Cliff Floyd singled and Millar honwrcd on a 3-2 pitch with two out. 
The Giants' Kirk 1,uPter walked thr. bases loadnd in the fourth and was replaced by Aaron Fultz, who walked Prnston '\:\'ilson to give Florida a 5-4 l!'ad. K!'nt honwrP.Cl in lhP­lifth to put the (;ianlc; ahead 7-5. 
Expos 6, Dodgers 5 
Hondel! White hit a two-run single off Jeff Shaw in the ninth as thr. Montrl'al Expos beat the Los AngPIPs Dodgers al'tPr wast­ing a two-run !rad an inning narliPr. 
On a night wlwn Orel I lnrshiscr made his first appnar­ancn for the Dodgers since Aug. 
7. 1994, the Dodgers trai!Pd 4-2 
until pinch-hitter Dave llansen·s t.hren-run homnr in the eighth off Ugucth Urbina, who lc<l tho NI. with 41 savns last s1~ason. 
The drive off' a spnakf'r sus­pnncfod l'rom the Olympic Stadium roof abovn right linld was llanscn's his scwnnth c._irncr pinch homer. 
But Shaw couldn't hold th11 !1rn<l. and the Dodg1'rs lost !'or the l'irsl lim<' in thrnc games. Following a S-l start last y<,1u·. Los Ang11lns losl ni1w of' ils next 14 and dropped out of con­LPntion. 
Trao\ CoquillPLtP singled IPad­ing off th!'\ ninth. l'ntnr nnrgnron reachPd on a bunt singln and .11,sP Vidro, who ParliPr doub\Pd twice, gol on ,vlwn snrond bas!'· man Mark GrudziPlanek mis­handled his groundnr. 
WhitP tlwn singled up tlw mid­din. <'asily scoring tlw tying and winning runs. 
Anthony TPll'orcl ( 1-0l pitrlwd a scorrloss ninth !'or tlrn win. allowing two hits. 
111-irshisPr, who sig1wd with Uw Dodgers during t.hc offsca­son as a free agi'nt.. allowed li1ur runs an d s <' vP n hiIs in fi vri innings. Last July 22 at Olympic Stitdium while pitching /'or Urn New York Mets. lw got his 200th earner win. 
Expos startl~r .lavi1ff VazquPz. who threw a one-hittr.r last ScpL 14 at DodgPr Stadium. allow1•.d two runs and cighL hits in scv('ll innings. giving up a solo honrnr Lo Adrian Beltn\ in tlw sixth. 
LP!' StPvens \'\'Pnt 2-l'or-J with 

three BIHs and a walk l'or the 
Expos. Strwens, ar:quirPd from 
Texas on March 16 in a thrnn­player trade that sent first base­man Brad Fullmer to Toronto. hit an HBI single off lfprshiscr that put Montreal ah11ad 2-1 in the first. IIP added a basos­loaded, two-run single off Orn 41-ycar-old right-hander in the fi!'th. 
Fxpos manager Pr-)lipn Alou pointed his finger and shouu~d at llershiscr al'tPr hr, hit \'ladimir Guii1Tero on Orn loft shoulder with a pitch lhaL loadPd the basPs in the firth. 
\Vith ,\lou continuing to ynll al llnrshisl'r f'rom the dugout. Stcvons blooprd a J-1 pitch into lt>f't finld for a 4-1 Jc,ad. 
BPltrn wf'nt 3-f'or-4. including a doubl11 in fourth. Ncnd-ing a tripln to hit for tlrn cycle, hP grounded to fir.st in th!'. eighth. 
Gary Slrnfffold triplnd o!T tlw ccntnr-liPld wall to drive in his liflh run of Lhe season in Lhc first inning. Vidro's IWI doubk lif'd tlw srorn in tlrn bottom half'. 
Brewers 8, Reds 5 
Kc•vin Bark<'r, Tvlrr Ilouston and Cooff knkins ·honrnn'd but t,.:nn GrifTnv Jr. rl'mainnd 0-l'or­Ci nl'.i n nat"i as thn Milwaukn1) B1·nwPrs ovnrpow!'rncl thl' HPds. 
Snvnn difforent Brcwnrs scornd and seven had at lnast onn hit as Milwauk0,11 improv!'d to 2-0 under lirst-ynar managnr DavPy I.opes. 
Whil<1 thP Brnwprs got tlw most out of tlrnir 10 hits. the Beds again wastnd opportuni­tins. Thny wcrn 2-f'or-I (i with runnPrs in scoring position, leaving them 3-frir-26 this sna­son. 
Grilfr)y walked. grounded out thrno times against Milwaukee's in field shift, strur,k out and stranded two runners on third. lle's O-J'or-10 in three games and has yet to get a ball out of' Lim infield in his hometown. 
Cincinnati's DantP BkhPltP misplayc-d a hit to right into a tripln for the snc.ond straight night, but got. a solo honwr f'or his f'irst hit as a HPcl and thrnw Marquis Grissom out at honw as he tried t.o score on a lly in the sPVPnth. 
l'ok<'V HPPSP had four of' tlw Heels' 13 hits with two singi<'s a n d t v..-ci do u b I <' s . H d d i1' TaubPnsen also had four hits l'or Cincinnati. 
Af't<'r getting a :{-:~ tiP and a '.i­1 loss whiln WParing n'cl slPnws, Llw HPds WPnt bark to tlw blark ones that thPv had surcPSS with at honw last v11ar. Tlwir last ganw in black ·was tlw '.i-0 loss to the t\,lnl"> in tlw tir'brnakn l'or thP NL wild card in OctobPr. St<w" Parris ,1;tartPd that ganw and lost. 
Sanrn slPrW!'s. sanrn start.Pr. sanw r11sult \V('{lnesdav. 
I'arris I0-1 ) gav" ~J p a soIo honwr in tlrn third to BarkPr, bnginning a strnak ol' BrPwPrs runs in four r·onsnrutivn innings. llouston hit a two-run shot in the sixth ol'f' (;abn Whitn. strPtching tlw lnad to 7-2. 
Jnn kins led off tlw Pighth with anotlwr honwr off Danny Craws and bccam,, tlw onlv BrP\VPr to scorn morP than <;nrn in tlw gamn. 

LET YOUR VOICE BE HEARD 
Cotne tell the Board of Trustees what you think about student involvement in University governance 
Board of Trustees Report Focus Groups 
-·  .Jo.  
8:00  8:30 pm  College of Arts and Letters  
8:30  9:00 pm  College of Business  
9:00  9:30 pm  College of Engineering  
9:30  10:00 pm  College of Science  
10:00 ­ 10:30 pm  School of Architecture  
'-•  THURSD·AY, APRIL 6  
DOOLEY ROOM, LAFORTUNE  
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE PROVIDED  

I . 
-
... 
.i 

..-------------------------­
Thursday, April 6, 2000

page 23 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The University ofNotre Dame's 
C. Robert Hanley Lecture 
Speaker ofthe House Dennis Hastert "The 106th Congress: A Report from the Speaker" 
Saturday, April 8 
2:30 p.m. 
Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
The Hanley Lectures on Values and Public Policy at Notre Dame are underwritten with a gift from C. Robert Hanley, a 1954 Notre Dame 
-
I 
I 
I
graduate and the founder and chairman emeri­
i 
1
tus ofFederal Data Corporation, and his wife, 
. 
Margie Hanley. The lectures are delivered both 
' 
on campus and in the nation's capital as part of Notre Dame's Washington program. 

--~---..------------------------------~-----------­
page 24 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 6, 2000 

I DO YOU LIKE APPLES??? : 
-CAMPUS VIEW HAS LARGE SPACIOUS ­: ROOMS, IS CLOSE TO CAMPUS, AND :t COSTS LESS THAN MOST OF THE t, 
• COMPETITION. 
: HOW DO YOU LIKE THEM 
-
APPLES??? 
CA"~L CINDY TODAY AT 272-1441 TO SET UP -AN APPOINTMENT TO SEE YOUR NEW HOME
-
FOR THE FALL.
-
-
FOOTBALL 

Tickets on sale for 
Blue and Gold game 
Special to The Observer 
Tickets are now on sale for the 71st annual Blue-Gold con­trolled football scrimmage, the culmination of the Notrn Dame's spring practice period. 
The Blue-Gold scrimmage is set for L30 p.m., April 29. in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The game is sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley and helps raise funds for that organization's scholarship fund. 
The game its,,Jf is a con­trolled. intrasquad contest for the 2000 Irish squad on the last of its 15 allotted days of prac­tice this spring. Notre Dame began its spring drills this week. 
Following the Blue-Gold scrimmage. an autograph ses­sion will be held involving all mBmbers of the current team. 
Prior to the Blne-Gold con­test, a flag football game will be held from 11:30 a.m.-12:45 
p.m. involving Notre Dame football alumni. The Stadium will open at 11 a.m. 
General admission tickets in advance are $8 for adults and $6 for vouths 16 and under. On game day tickets are $10 for adults and $8 for youths. Gold seats are $12 each. Group sales of 25 or more tickets are avail­able at $5 per ticket. All Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are admitted free with identification. All parking is free of charge for that event. 
Advance tickets can be pur­chased at tlrn Joyce Center tick­et office (on the second t1oor, enter Gate ll from 8:30 a.rn.-5 
p.m. Monday through 1-<riday. Tickets can be ordered by mail by writing Ticket Office, Joyr,e Center, Juniper Road, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (add $2 ser­vice charge per mail order). Phone ordrrs are acc('ptrd using VISA, Mastercard or American Express by calling 219-631-7356 ($2 service charge per phone order). 
Ticket orders should be received by April 17. to insure prompt mail delivery of tir,kcts. Orders received the week of the game will be held at will call (east side of Stadium). Photo identification is required for pickup of any tickets at will call. Game dav ticket sales at ticket windows· on the east side of the Stadium begin at 9 a.rn. 
The Irish return 13 starters this spring (including punter Joev Hildbold), seven on offeii.se and five on defense. 
On offense, the returnees are Jim Jones and Mike Gandy at guard, Jordan Black and John Teasdale at tackle, Jabari Holloway at tight end, Tony Fisher at tailback and Joey Getherall at flanker. 
Defensively, the starters back are tackle Anthony Weaver, end Grant Irons, inside line­backer Anthony D1mman, out­side linebacker Rocky Boiman and cornerback Clifford Jefferson. 


"> 
1 
.__ 
1 
I 
l 
"Bank of the Last 25 Years" as awarded by International Financing Review, the journal of record of the international capital markets. 
CREDIT 

FIRST SUISSE 
BOSTON www.csfb.com 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 6, 2000 
NCAA HOCKEY 

Frozen four survive rocky road to Providence 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
For Boston College, the closest call was in the regional semili­nals against Michigan State, when the Eagles scored 

is in his 
third con­secutive frozen Four. ''We were a heartbeat away from winning the national championship in each of' the last two seasons." 
Boston College lost 3-2 to Michigan in overtime of the 1998 championship game in Boston. Last year, Maine beat the Eagles 2-1 in the semifinal at Anaheim. Calif. 
That means Maine is going for consecutive titles. It's been 27 years sine!' a college hockey team has WOil rnnsccutive titles -a span that is the longest of any sport in NCAA history. 
"At this point, it's an opportu­nitv. In the middle of the sea­son, it was a hurdle that put a little pressure on us," said Maine coach Shawn Walsh, whose Black Bears won just once in a seven-game span in January. 
"It's been a long season, but 
now that we're closer we've 
talked about the possibility of a 
legacy." 

with 50 SP£> "We had a couple of were 50 onds lef'l in reg­lucky bounces, and were seconds 
ulation before away from
50 seconds away from 
our season owirtime. our season ending." ending," North Dakota 
winning in 

said Boston lost eight times Coll-cge
Jerry York
in the regular coach Jerry
Boston College coach
sHason. r.osting York. who 
it an unpreco­den ted fourth straight conference champi­onship. Maine has trailed in six of its last nine games. 
And all St. Lawrence needed was four overtimes -more than six hours of hockey -to survive the East Hegi.onal final against Boston University and advance LO this weekend's Frozen Fonr at thP ProvidPncP Civic Center 
"It's bPen a great ride," St. Lawrence coach Joe Marsh said vVednesdav as the teams pre­pared for. the NCAA hockey semifinals. a weekend that has been dubbed the "Frozen Four." 
North Dakota will play Maine at 2 p.m. Thursday and Boston College will take on St. Lawrence in the other semifinal at 7 p.m., with the winners playing Saturday night for the title. 
Whether it's basketball or 
badminton, men or women, the 
final four teams are always 
happy to be around. But this 

group of coaches is probably North Dakota has taken the has won a championship in But, like his Frozen Four happier than most, considering title six times, winning in both Providence, which has played brethren, Fighting Sioux coach that all survived scares that 1980 and 1982 in Providence. It hosl lo the final four seven Dean 13lais credits his tf~am for could have left them home this is the only team of the four that times. surviving _struggles. 
weekend. 
"We had a couple of lucky bounces, and we 
-.r 
.. -· ­
Wednesday, April 5, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
Doherty 
continued from page 32 
Gwynn elbow injury not serious ' 
however. the prime physical shapt: necessary 
to make a run at a Bookstorn title surprised clubhouse was closed. you it's cracked, chipped, whatever,Dohrrty a year ago. 
Associated PrC5s 
Gwynn left the ballpark Monday it just sucks all the air out of you. I
"I didn't know it was full-court.. I thought il with his arm in a sling. The Padres wasjusl so bummed."
was half-court." Dohnty said. "We·n~ going to NEW YOHK were off Tuesday, and (;wynn's right Initial X-rays on his elbow Monday
dd'initrly be prcp,Lrr<l this time. I need to get Tony Gwynn was out of the lineup arm was taped were inconclusive.
in shape." 
Wedn{)sday night because of an and bandaged Tim Padrns waitedDoherty Pmphasizns condilioning on his 
injured right elbow, but there was WPdm~sday. anothc>r day before
Irish team. I11\ once forced thP players Lo run 
"It feels a lot

good news for the San Diego star: X­"I want to play. I taking further]04 wind sprints while lw sat on tho sidelines 
rays worn negative, nrnaning no trip didn't fly 3,000 better today ... But tBsts to allow
sipping a glass or water. That r:oaching regi­
to the disabled list miles to put on the you want to be careful swAlling to sub­
nrnn won't W't him in shapn f'or Bookstore. 
"He could play in a day or lwo," pom-poms." he side.
Dohr;rty claims to bP doing narly morning 
and I'm listening

Padres assistant trainc>r Jim Daniel said. "I think I Gwynn was
conditioning lo g<'l in shapn for tlw 2000 tour-
said. rould play if I had to the doctors. " nickAd in thr,
1wy. a boast his playPrs·and assistant coaches 
Gwvnn had fearPd a broken bone to. I probably fourth inning and
would br\ glad to tPst him mi 
after· being hit by a pitch from Al could snrak down stayed in thn
Snv1,ral may gPl thn clrnncP. as outgoing 
Tony Gwynn

Lf'itcr in Monday's opC'ner against to the batting cage· game. I Ir, f'inishc1d
seniors Jimmv Dillon. Skvlard Ow(1ns and 
Padres outfielder

the N0w York Mets. for a fww swings." O-for-3.
Todd l'alnwr ;trl' all ('iigibk to <'ompPLf' in 
"If it's a hairline fracture, you're "It fpnls a lot "\Vhnn it first
l\ookslorP Bask1,tball. 
probably talking DL. out for two bPLtPr todav. The happ1'Uf'd, I'm _just
..Thf'Y don't want to go up against nw." 
wc•<'ks." thP cight-tinll' NL batting !'act that I <:an almost straighten it thinking. · I got hit. It's sore. It ,\'illIJolH'rly \\anwd \\ith a smile. 
champion said bnfor<' the l'aclr('s out tells mr it might not be as bad as be OK,'" Gwynn said. "I didn't rr'ailv
Sh(wk«'r·s first ganw will lw TuPsday at(,: I :i 
t11ok batting practice. wo thought it was." Im said. "But feel bad until my last at-bat. I got :1
p.m. on tlH• StPpan baskPtb,dl courts 
X-ravs takc>n al Shea Stadium. you want to br ('ard"ul. and I'm lis­fastball awav and PXtPnd<'d mv
Dolwrty's tPam will go up against a squad 
lHn\ f' v·c r. s howe d no c r a c k . T he tnning to llw doctors." l'ibow, and 111}: lingc'rs WPnl numb. ·1
rnllt•d "\\ho's tlw 1\nimal'.'" ro111p1•isPcl of" livP 
!'f'Sllllli W(';rl' announ(·rd aftl'.r the Gwvnn. 18th on the rnrcer hits list prob,tbly wouldn'l haw bPPn ablP to\\·onwn l'rom I.P\\is I !all. 
· with 3.067. made two trips hit alhir thal." 1 --------------------------------------·, to the disabled list last yf\ar Gwvnn hit .:~:rn last St'1lSOl1, 011(' 
NEW PANCAKE-MINIS™-JUST 9 9 ~ 
I 

EAT A DELICIOUS BREAKFAST ON YOUR WAY TO WORK WITHOUT WEARING I TI 

f{),­
~I . ',Jl 
t'\ ,/ 
,.....~----­
,­

DELICIOUS, SILVER-DOLLAR SIZED PANCAKE-MINIS: 
INTRODUCING GREAT TASTING, BUT!ERMILK PANCAKE-MINIS: THEV"RE THE 
PERFECT SIZE FOR DIPPING 1/!THOUT DRIPPING AS YOU RACE TO WOR.~. 
fOR A LIMITED TIME, GET S[X FOR JUST 99¢. ONLY H BURGER KING: 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
br,c'.ause of a strained r.alf point· bPlow his r.ar(\N 11v,,rag<'. I In and missed 44 gamr,s. has batted .300 for 17 straight "To nm, my only goal this years. tied with Illlnus Wag111•r for year was to stay healthy." the most in NL historv. said Gwynn. who turns 40 The Padres play tlH' IV!Pts again on Mav 9. "To work so hard Thursday, then go to Montreal for a in the· winter and then get wcrkPnd sorins. Gwynn got his hit on opening day, that's 3,000tb hit last Aug. (i at Olympic one thing. To have them tell Stadium, ~ fun 3 on , e>asKetba\\ Aoor HolKe1 • \lo\\e~ba\\ Tab\e Tenni~ • 'Poo\  
Programming Contest Sunday, April 9 12 noon ­3 p.m. 1st Floor Fitzpatrick Computer Cluster Languages C and C++ Sign up with a partner Send names, email addresses, team name to prijks@nd.edu Test your programming skills Have fun Win prizes  


I I 
I 
I ~ I 
I 
l 
r page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 6, 2000 
I NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL THE MASTERS
I 
! 
! 
I 
I I Hewitt succeeds 
! I I 
Cremins at Tech 
AssociatcJ Press 
ATLANTA 

\.firroring a move that occurred 19 years ago. Gf\org'ia T,wh turned to a rela­tively unknown coarh to rebuild its bctshtball µro­
gram. 
Sir.1rns l'au[ Ilewitt agreed to succeed Bobbv Cremins as the Ynllow Jarkets' coach. Tim Associated Press learned We<l1wsdav 
A source familiar with the scar('.h. speaking on condition of anonymity, said Hewitt would b,1 introdured during a ni>ws conferc>ncc> Thursdav. In i\lbanv. N.Y, lll~witt board.eel a plane ·ror ALianta but d.eclinr.d comment. 
Officials at Georgia Tech and Siena ,dso would not rom­nrnnt. 
lfewitt. 71-27 in three years at Siena. becomes tht> first blark basketball coach at Georgia Terh. 
Ile rebuilt a Siena program that went 23-59 in the three vears before he arrived. His contrart at the Loudonville. 
N.Y.. school runs through the 2002-2003 season, but 
includes a buyout provision that allowed him to take the Georgia TPrh job. 
The Macon Telegraph reported that Tech athletic director Dave Braine flew to Albanv, near the Siena cam­pus, t;, finalize the deal with Hewitt on Tuesday. 
CrPmins was a 33-vear-old r o a r. h a t t i n y A p pa·! a chi a n State when Georgia Tech hired him as coach in 1981. !-le pushed the Yello,v Jackt'ts to national prominence, recruiting such players as Mark Price. John Salley, Kennv Andt>rson. Dennis Scott and Stephon Marbury. 
Under Crrmins. Ter.h went to the NCAA tournament ninr yea.rs in a row and 10 times ovt>rall. inrluding thr 1990 Final Four. The Yellow Jackets fp,11 on hard tinrns dur­ing the latter stages of Cremins' 19-year tenure. rflarhing thi> tournament only once Uw last srven seusnns. 
At Si,ma. nrnanwhiln. llewitt guidrd Sirna to thr NCAA tournaml'nt in 1999. its first appearance i·n IO years. Th<' Saints finislwd 24-9 tbi.s vear. losing to Penn State in the sec­ond round of thr '\flT. 
llev,itt. a 36-yr\ar-old former assistant at Villanova and Fordham. is known as a strong recruiter and favors a running, up-tempo stylr popu" lar \A'ith !'ans. Siena avl'ragrd more than 6.!l00 per ganrn over the last two years to le.1d the Metro Atlantic: Athletic Conl'erPnci' in att<rndanre. 
Gnorgiu Tech lcant'<l heavily toward hiring a minority roach. In addition. Hewitt was able recruit elTectivelv. a fac­tor for a school like ·Georgia Tech with high academic stan­dards. 
llewilt takes over a program that bas fallen to the bottom of the Atlantic Coast Cont'erPnce. To make matters worse. the Yellow Jackets (13­171 lose Jas!ln Collier. their top scorer and rrboundrr, and shot-blocking cP.nter Alvin Jones may enter the NBA draft a year early. 
Cremins announcp,d I~eb. 18 that hr would not return, say­ing the Tech program needp,d a new direction. He accp,p[ed $1.5 million to buv out the final three years oi' his con­tract. 
llewitt was a late entrv into lhe coaching search ·after higher-profile candidates Leonard llamilton of Miami and Bill Self' of Tulsa agreed lo contrar.t p,xtensions. 
Among the others mentioned as candidates for the Tech job were Appalachian State's Buzz Peterson. Delaware's ~ikc 
Brey and Dayton·•s OlivM 
PurnPII. 
Got Sports? Call 1-4543 
NOTRE DAME F!LM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
:JZ:L~i~ 
I . 
TIMBERLAKE WERTENBAKER 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Fri., April 14, 7:30 p.m. 
Sat., April 15, 7:30 p.m. 
Sun., April 16, 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
Tickets am available at 
LaFortune SJurlent Center Ticket Office. Maste'rCarrl'and Visa orders Gall 631-8128. 
Nicklaus returns to Augusta 
Associated Press 
AU(;USTA. Ga. 
Aftnr a onr.-ynar layoff. Jack Nii;klaus returned to Augusta National to find a course hi> hardly rr.cognizr.d. 
Tlrnrr.'s rough now. Sevt1ral holes have bAnn lengthnned. Trens hav,~ lw,in planted and rPplantPd 
In nach caso, tho changes Wffn dnsignnd to make things tough11r after TigPr Woods' record-setting .\1astnrs vicLory in 1997. Nicklaus, admit.tr.div a traditionalist. seems a b(t pnturbi1d that club officials der·irfod to tinkPr with thP nrnstcrpiecc crc,1.ted by Bobby Jones and Alisl.rr Markenzin. 
"From a nostalgia stand­point I don't like to son it hap­pen." Nicklaus said WPdnnsday al'ter a pradice round. "But. it's t.lrnir golf tour­namnnt. II' thPV mako a rliangt> and I do1{'t likri it. it doesn't maltc-•r a damn." 
Tim (iO-ycar-old Nicklaus. a six-time champion at Augusta National, f'inishnd an nlnrtrif'y­

ing sixth in thr 19')8 Masters. beating p!uyr.rs loss than hull' his age. But he sat out last y(•ar after undflrgoing hip­rcplaccrnenl surgery. 
Upon his return. lw com­mnntr.d on the changing face of the course. originally drsignerl to rnscmbln a sna­sid(\ links amid tlw Ccorgia pines. 
"Thcy'vr rhangPd thP naturo ol' tho golf coursn." Nicklaw, said. "Thn Masters has always bncn a <liffercnl golf tournamcint lhan any other tournanH\nt. lt.'s had oµcn fairways. it's had hard and fast grPcns. 
"Bobby Jonns wanted a src:­ond-shoL golf roursn. Nicklaus ('onlintwd. "I le loved St. Andrt'WS and that sty[p or go Ifin g, s{\<'.on d -shot . go II' coursrs. I think thn concnpt of' t.hci golf coursn had changed grnally. It's looking morn likr a U.S. Oµcn golf' rnursn than a Mastcrs golf cours<~." 
At 6/)8:i yards. Augusta National is not much ol' a dis­tance test for today's long-hit­
ting players. so club officials feel they must remain vigilant to prevent their coursr\ from bflcoming a pushovPr. 
This year. for inst_ancn. Llwy altPrPd the contour of' spvi:ral gn~ens. narrownd thr> 10th fairway and pl an lPd trrws along the 14th fairway and between Nos. 1:i and J7_ 
"We gnt somn criticism about c:hangos <W1'ry yPar." Jlootin Johnson, chairman ol' Augusta National. said. ''I'd say this tournanwn1 has a rr~p­utalion for its tradition and customs. And I think wp'vn maintainnd thosP prPtty wnll." 
Nicklaus hPliPVPS thP changes will s,~rv1' tlwir pur­pose. 
"I rlo not b<'liPVP vou'll SP!' a lot of rncord br.oknn this WPPk." lw said. "That's proba­bly what tlwy w<'l'r' trying for. trying to put a littlr• mor1' fin• into Augusta National. I ('(~r­tainly am not hPn' lo complain about it, by any m1•ans. My timn at playing Augusta National has long passl'd. I'm hPrn t.11 havP fun." 

Dayne leads Sullivan nominees 
Associate,! Press 
i'\EW YOHK 
llnisman Trophy winner Bon Dayne and Ceorgia's baskr\tball twins K('1lv and Coco Mill11r am amon·g Lim finalists !'or the Sullivan /\ward to br1 presented Thursday night. 
DaynP, who [Pd Wisconsin ( l 0-2 I to tlH! Big T n n Confon'nce titlr1 and a l!osn 

Bowl victorv ovrff Stanford. ran for 1.8:{4 yards and 19 touchdowns in 1999. Th,i :i­t'oot-10. 2:i2-pound tail bark from lforlin. N . .I .. is major college l'oolball's care11r lnading rusher with (,.397 yards. 
• The Millnr twins. l'rom Bochester, Minn., (Pd the Lady Bulldogs to tlw NCAA womPn's Final Four in 1998­
99. and hrlprd llwrn rPach 
tlw final eight this sPason. Both am junior guards. with Kelly Millnr earning Sou theastt\rn Con f'p rP nr<' playnr or tlH' year honors. Knlly led (;porgia (32-41 wilh 
15.4 points pPr game; Coro was next al I:i.:1 ppr ganw. 
The olhPr finalists arP wrnstlPr Str.plwn NPal of Cal Statn-Baknrsl'inld: softball playPr Stacny NuvPman of' UCLA: and diVl'r Mark Huiz. 

80's Enough!! 
Live at Alumni Senior Club FRIDAY, APRIL 7th 10:30 p.m.-1:30 a.m. 


Thursday, April 6, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 

Godsey 
continued from page 32 
tr.rbac k. l l (\ br.gan la.st S('ason as a fourth string light Pnd and quartl'rback but artnr l!ric ChaµpPII was dismiss<'d from Lim l<1am. only two scholarship quart1:rbacks romai1rnd. Godsl'v was thrust into thr, rolt' ,;r third quart.Prbnck !)('hind Jarious Jackson and .\rnaz Battle. 
l!n may havP noL SPP.11 any playing lim<' but Gndsr.y bcli1:v,•s his f'rPshmun year was hnndfrial to his growth as a quartPrbaC'k. 
"La~l y1!a.:· \..ms a lca.rni!.1g cxp('l'H'nce. (,odsey said. It h1dp1'd 1111i out wat1·hing .larious and Arnaz. A lot of being a quartl~rback is mental hard to lei! after the first fllw and by watching how they days but I think I'm doing handled themsnlves on and off pretty well." th<' field was bcn<'f'icial." Godsey also spoke with his 
In the off­soason. 
· Godsi>y and the rest of the Irish worked out 
v. i t h strength c o a c h Mickey f\1 arotti. lfo lost 1:; pounds, trimming down to 240 pounds to get ready for the spring. 

DESTINY! 
--.. COME TO THE SELF-ASSESSMENT WORKSHOP! 
Ji'our part "·orkshop -Attendance to all four is -stronab: encouraged Limited space -Sign up in advance at TI1e Career Center 
When:  Thursday, April 6. 2000  3:00. 4:30 p.m.  
Thursday, April 13, 2000  3:00 -4:30 p.m.  
Wednesday, April 19, 2000  3:00 -4:30 p.m.  
Thursday, April 27, 2000  3:00 -4:30 p.m.  

Where: Foster Rootn -Lafortune Srudent Center Prtsanted by Olivia Williams, Assi.stant Director 
The Cnreer Center 

brother George,"Last yeur was a who is expccted
learning experience. It 
to start

helped me out watching 
[' 0 r Jarious and Arnez. Georgia 
A lot ofbeing a TBrh next 
full. The

quarterback 
Godsev is mental.,. brothers arc in s i mi I a r
Gary Godsey 
positions.

Irish quarterback 
'_'I go~ quir:,k0.r and f'a~te~. f~r tl11s oflense, Godsey said. Its 
MASTER 
YOUR 
CAREER 
with both 
of their 

l e a m s looking for replacement at quartf'rback following tho graduation of Jackson and (;eorgia Tech's Joe llarnilton. 
"We talk a lot now," Godsey said. "Al nrst I didn't have an undnrstanding but now I do. We run pretty similar offenses so it's fun talking with him." 
/\s of now. Godsey and Battle are vying for the starting spot. Hut come August, four fresh­man quarterbacks will add some competition to the mix. Thf're is still a good chance that Godsey may be switched again to tight end. 
But for the spring, at least. Godsey will be wearing the red jersey assigned to the quarter­backs. 
"Coach Davie said I'm going at il [quarterback) 100 per­rent." Godsey said. 
The culmiii.ation of Godsey's freshman season comes April 29 when he 'II compete in the Blue-Gold game. 
In just 2-1/2 years he's gone f'rom never playing the posi­tion to possibly -being the starting quarterback at '.'Jotre 
Danw. 
"This is what I wanted," Godsey sai~. "It's always been my dream. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 



JEFF HSU/The Observer Junior Maura Doyle takes part in a contest last season. Doyle and Notre Dame fell to Georgetown 14-4 Wednesday. 
Hoyas start strong, down Irish 14-4 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Georgetown Iloyas camo out fast and never slowed down. defeating the Irish 14-4 in women's lacrosse action WBdnesday. The Irish !'all to 3-5 with their fifth loss in a row, while the home tcrnm improves to 7-2 on the sea­son. 
The lloyas scored five unanswered goals in the first half' and then continued their aggressive play with streaks of' four and five goals in the s0cond half. Freshman attacker Angela Dixon was the first and only Irish playr.r to get past lloyas goalie Bowr.n Holden in the first half". Dixon's goal, off un assist by her classmate, mid­fie Ider Danielle Shearer. brought the score to 5-1 at the half. 
In the second halt', the Irish 
fared better, allowing only 
four goals before answering 

with two of' their own. Irish sophomore Alissa Moser scored off an assist by Dixon two minutes into the half. Dixon scored for a serond time just 20 seconds later to bring the scorn to <J-3. 
Georgetown went on its final scoring run after Dixon's second goal, a run stopped when Irish tri-cap­tain Kathrvn Pern\lla scored with 17 s~conds left in th0 game. 
Dixon came off the bench to lead the Irish with two goals and one assist. Junior All-American midt'ieldPr Sheehan Stanwick talliPd a game-high four goals and added an assist to l1~ad thr lloyas over tlrn Irish. 
Irish goaliP Tara Durkin madr 19 saves while lloldPn finished tlw ganw with eight. The Irish wnrc outshot 41-27 
and  won sevf!n draws  to  13  
f'or the Hoyas.  
Notre  Dame  r0.turns  to  

action on Saturday against Connecticut al Morrone Stadium. 
Get your friends together and show off your talents at the 
1st Annual Notre Dame Lip Sync 
Benefits go to the South Bend Center for the Homeless 
Lafortune Ballroom 7-9 pm, April 6th 
Admission $1 at the door with a Donation Drive for the shelter-wanter items are bathroom and kitchen utensils (drop off will be at the door) 


For entry or information call Charles at 256-5027 or sign up in the Student Government office. Entry deadline is April 5th 9:00 pm 
Sponsored by Student Government 
.1 
I 
' 
1 
I I I 
l 
!
l 
I 
I I I 
~ 
' 
·--­

page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 6, 2000 
.,, WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Singles play assures Notre Dame victory over Purdue 
By KEVIN BERCH OU 
Sports Writer 
On paper it lookf'.d likP. a mismatch. On thr, r;<H1rt it was. 
Thr, 14th-rankP.d Nnlrt' Dame women's tennis tram continued ils impressivn play on WPdrwsdav with a ll-0 vic­to rv over· the Purdun BniiPrmakers 
The only thing-that made the af't,,rnoon somewlrnt dil'l1­rult l'or thA Irish was the West Lafayette weather. Playing in their l'irst outdoor match of thr season, Notrr Damr was forrml to brave unseasonably cold t.1•mperatures and brutal \\'inds as it attempted to pound Purdun. 
''Jt was really freezing out there." sophomore Becky Varnum said. "Our ('Oaches pullrd us asidr though and told us not to worry about it and just go out and play our games.'' 
The weather. evidently. was not much of' a factor. For Lhr• Irish. the match went Pxar.tly according to plan. Junior MirhPIIP Dasso was tested. just as shc thought she would be. In her No. 1 singles match against Purdue's Jpnnif'r.r Embry. thP Irish junior won a dose one in three sets. From there. Notre Dame put it on cruise control as they raced home to their 16th win of the season against just five 
defeats. 
Varnum whipped Shannon Taheny in No. 2 singles. while 


SHANNON BENNETTfThe Observer 
Sophomore Becky Varnum played strong against Purdue's No. 2 singles player Shannon Taheny in Wednesday's victory. The 14th-ranked Irish need the talent of both Varnum and No. 1 singles player Michelle Dasso to challenge William and Mary Sunday. 
Kelly Zalinski, Nina Vaughan, Lindsey GrPen and KatiP Cunha all nettf>cl imprnssiv1; victorilis. . 
"\Ve slarlPd strong up top, 
and just playnd strong right on through." Varnum said. 
With winds whipping all over thr outdoor courts. the Irish brnewd througl1 doublns play as w,~11. 
Though the match was alrnady clinch1-1d hPading into pairs play. th<' Irish usrd the possibility that they might improve in doubh's as motiva­tion to keep lighting. 
Dasso and Varnum notched an imprcssivr upset victory over Pu rd uc 's 21Hh-rankrd doubll.'s tandf,m of Embry and Tahrny by a score of' 8-2. The Cu Up li11 g S O [' Gr P. e 11 cl 11 d Zalinki and Cunha and Vaughan also played well in gaining easy dndsions. 
The Dasso-Varnum effort was signil'irant in that it demonstrated NotrG Damr, doubl11s· rnloading efforts. After some sizzling early 1-aia­son doubles play, the Irish had fallm1 off latclv ,vhen !'ac­ing quality oppon.ents in tlw pairs format. The Dasso­Varnum win indicates that tlrn Irish may have recaptured their Parlv sPason form. 
ThP ,vi~1 over Purdue was crucial. for il allows Notre Dame to entPr its rnur:11 antici­pated match against national power William and Mary with momentum. 
On paper, that match is shaping up to br as close as they come. 
This Sunday, april 9, at the 11 :45 am Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, we will celebrate the Rite of Reception into Full Communion. At this Liturgy, Candidates for Full Communion (those who have been baptized in another Christian denomination or were baptized Catholic and have received no other Sacraments) will complete their Initiation by receiving he Sacraments of Confirmation and Eucharist. The Candidates have been participating in the RCIA process since September. Please help us welcome them into our Catholic community! 
Conrad Engelhardt (Jennifer McEntee) Cory Neal (Annie Neal) Morgan Farmer (Bridget O'Connor) Stephanie Newcom (Chris Powers) Lezlie Farris (Adrienne Franco) Alexis Nussbaum (Stasia Bijak) Rachelle Gentner (Marty Lopez) Andrea Odicino (Jennifer Shell) Christa Guerreno (Tim Burbage) Gina Pierson (Kristen Clancy) Emily Hallinan (Katie Coleman) Dylan Reed (Ryan Walsh) Robyn Harridge (Billy Marshall) Renita Riley (Katie O'Banion) Risa Hartley-Werner (Michael Cretella) Bill Roth (Gary Chamberland, CSC) Matt Mamak (Marie Gemma) Bill Westberry (Dawn Meyer) Michael Mancuso (Adam Van Fossen) Melissa Yeazel (Brian Yeazel) Katie Meierotto (Michael Rizzo) 
.....-Iia,II.k yo•• t;o the :O,UI.£.. -t,ea,••• .l'.o.r a,J.J. t:t•ei.:r :,;rnippo:rt a,II.d. a,ssJ.s"ta:n.ce 'iI-.. -ti-..~"" l'a,it,:t• :l'.o:rIIIa,t,j_o:n. ol' ou.:r ca,nd1.da.,"tes: 
MJ Adams Erin Kennedy Gary Chamberland, CSC Stephen Koeth Mandy Dillon Kevin Monahan Erner Doherty Jenny Robinson Monica Frazier Peter Rocca, CSC Cheryl Healy Tami Schmitz Tom Jacobs 
,,. 
Thursday, April 6, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 31 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
01-\ ..)o~, ·r'~ So\tlitY, ~1-N ! -:!'. M~,._\J , G£1N6 1N 11-\E. \N"F\'it'°'MW IS ONE. \\IIN6, BVT NO"\" 8[11-/C, : 
h~\.t:: "To 6E1" \JP,.. .!-1 
Fox TROT 
SMELLS GooD.  IT'S AN  TOFU BM.LS DIPPED IN  
WHATCHA  0RIC,It,1AL  SESAME JELLY, BAKED IN  
MAKING?  RECIPE.  AN ORGANIC DAIRY•FlcEE  
CREAM CHEESE AND oAT•  

MEAL CRUST, ToPPE0 WITH 
I .,,,... ____.;,--/ 

FERMENTED LIMA BEAN 
~C~UiNE"1. 
1-J\ 1/
re­
./J 

11-1.,1'$ P-w t.N"l'1~ELYt1f-H~€ TO~! 1". C~N'"\"iHHJK o 1' SINC>Lt 11.\INC. C,000 
VT '2,El~G STv<.K I 
AND IT SOUNDS LIKE 'l'oU'LL BE WANTING AN EXTRA•SI& HELPINC,. 
"~}; 
~"~i 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
ASK "wHATCHA MAKING" FIRST ... AS!< "WHATCHA MAKING" FIRST ... 
\Q 
=~ 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
•do you ~k-the opp~?ive heert of . . 
e,<.o{ic. \oca If, Ii \<.e 0 i\o)(i'\t,,1iss i.::;,s 1pp1 
• do ~ou warn dail~ remi nder5 of how 
pampered and <;,poi led we"ve all been? 
61: WA~liU:V: 
-.Your 
conscience 
-doe~ 
ncrr-ea~ 
-the bills. 
beam.1@nd.edu 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
Den denizen 8 Littermates 15 "Look Back in Anger" playwright 16 Asleep at the switch 17 Toothpaste tube direction 18 Classic exile 
site 19 Kayoed 20 Kind of tax 22 Dovetail 24 "_love You" 25 Chilled drink 26 It delivers the 
goods 28 Place for court battles? 30 Make permanent 
34 Three-time Oscar-winning director 
37 Leading 39 "I know what you're up to!" 40 Former name of Belize 
43 High rollers? 
44 Plant twice 
45 In escrow 
46 Traipse 48 Prune 
49 Accord (1998 peace agreement) 50 Cartoon utterance 52 Nashville-to­Chattanooga dir. 54 Flatboat 58 Thrifty traveler's stop 63 Toothpaste box letters 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

64 Pest 65 Red Skelton 
catchphrase 67 Fake 68 Running a 
temperature 69 In a coarse manner 70 Supermarket section 
DOWN 
1 Kind of buddy 2 Suffix with 
Roman or arab 3 Is adjacent to 4 Preschoolers? 5 Work party 6 Releases a fly? 7 Borscht basics 8 Midwife's 
exhortation 9 Local 
personality? 10 Poet Neruda 11 Security 12 Yesterday, in 
Italy 
Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky 
36 Galileo's birthplace 37 Mock phrase of insight 38 "Saving Private Ryan• depiction 41 Be one's own doctor 42 Aspirin has 
several 
47 Tools (along) 
49 Hoer 
51 "Indeed!" 34 Semi conductor? 53 Blotto 35 Alice's chronicler 55 Spanish seaport 
56 "Swan Lake" role 60 "Render therefore_
57 Puzz\e's tlieme 
Caesar ... " 

(shown in 20-, 40-, 58-Across 61 Site south of and 21-Down) Paris 58 Bright side? 
62 Ring setting? 

59 about 66 Bauxite, e.g. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 1HIS DAY: Marilu Henner, Dianne Brill, Candace Cameron, Merle Haggard, Michelle Phillips, Ari Meyers 
Happy Birthday: You'll gain respect from individuals ~ho can add to your success. You will be will­ing to fight for your beliefs and stand uf for anyone that you feel is worthy 
o your help. You can make things happen this year if you are relentless in your pursuits, refusing to admit defeat along the way Your numbers: 10, 16, 22, 34, 38, 45 
ARIES (March ii-April 19): You will be a little on edge. A temper tantrum will not help you sort through the dilemma. You must not let your personal life interfere with your work, or you will be out there looking for a new job. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This will not be the day to deal with authority figures, red tape, traffic violations or anything like that. It is best to spend the day with someone you love. Don't worry about what others think. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't trust others when it comes to money ventures. It is best to take care of your own investments. Minor health problems will surface if you have not been taking care of yourse1£. 000 
CANCER {June 21-July 22): You will get support from your close friends, but your emotional partner will be extremely hard to deal with today. Try not to get on his or her case, as you will only make matters worse.0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This will not be the day to hang out with peers or relatives. They will not be sympa· thetic to your needs or concerns. It is best to take on a creative hobby that will bring you satisfaction. 00 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Today is not the day to get involved in risky financial schemes. Problems with skin, bones and teeth are evident. Take care of such problems at the first signs of discomfort. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Do something special for yourself. Trav­el and educational pursuits will help you alleviate the stress you have been under. You need new friends and interests to occupy your time. 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Con• fusion and preoccupation will lead to saying things you shouldn't and carelessness. Keep your car mainte­nance up to date if you want to keep your car running smoothly. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will have to read between the lines if you plan on signing con­tracts today. You irill not be in a good position if you are talked into putting too much cash into an investment. 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Criticism will set you off. You are having a hard time emotionally and don't need someone nagging at you. Don't let your job suffer because of your personal life. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Friends and relatives will try to lean on you today. Don't be too accom­modating, or you won't accomplish anything else. Someone will give you false information. Do your own research. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can do things with children today; 

•
howevei; be sure to take a little time out for yourself. Your creative talent could make you extra cash. Look into getting your goods out in the marketplace. 0000 


13 _ go bragh 14 Certain partygoer 21 1959 Academy 
Award song 23 Offended 27 One and one 29 "Ouch!" 31 Topological 
shapes 32 Its capital is N'Djamena 
Birthday Baby: You will focus on looking the best that you can. You will accomplish more in harmonious surroundings, so you try to keep the peace at all times. You are intent on making the worlda better place. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 10 2000 Universal Press Syndicate
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 



NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL 
Saturday vs. Rutgers 
10:00 am Sunday vs. Villanova 
-~""' 

11:00am 


Domination 
Becky Varnum and the women's tennis team defeated the Purdue Boilermakers 9-0. 
page 30

PORTS 
O
THE page 32 BSERVER Thursday, April 6, 2000 
, 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Coach Doherty suits up to lead Shocker squad 

After leading his team to the NIT Championship game, Matt Doherty will once again take part in the Bookstore basketball tournament, playing for a squad called Shocker. 
FOOTBALL 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assori,m· S1,orts Ediror 
All snason long, mpn's bas­knt balI coach Mau Doh t' rtv stroV!' to gnt tlw st11dt'nt body nxrilt~d about his tf',tnl. and hn sun·,nt>ded. Now studnnts art' rnturning tlw favor. calling on Dohnrty to takt' part in th1• most popular studPnt basket­ball tradition on campus. Bookstorn Baskt1tball. 
Dohc~rty, a r,ollngiatn star at North Carolina in thn f',trlv 1980s, rl'adily agrnnd to partic:'­ipaln. In !'act, playing Bookstorn Basketball was one of thn first things ho did aftPr acr,npting the lwad coaching position a Y!'ar ago. 
"I want to compntn with thn stud!ints, and l111v0. fun with tlw student body," Dolwrty said. 
In 1999, Doherty played on "l.nbo's Lngcnds", a squad nanwd after f'ornwr Tarheels playnr JnfT Lnbo. That t0.am bow1•d out in tho tournament's narly rounds, but DohPrty hopns his second try will f'arn bnttnr. 
This time around, Doherty and his assistant coa!'h!~S. who are also playing in thn tourna­nwnt, lnf't thn tnam assignnwnts up to the Bookston' Basketball commissioners. Doh!•rly wnnt to tlw first tPam to ask for his sc~rvicPs. a frnshman-dominat­<'d squad calkd ShorkN. 
"I 1wndl'd a big guy. and lw's 6-foot-8," sophomor<' captain John MoraV!!k said. "So I rnl!Pd him and asked him." 
Since llolwrtv will miss somn ganws due to· his travnls for rc•(Tuiting, Moravt>k signed on four l'reshmPn to fill out thP roster: Nick AlfPrmann. Phil Brennan. Brandon Oliver and KylP Fager. They havnn'l all had an opportunity t.o prartict' tognt.lH•r lwrausP of' DohPrty's travnl sclwdidf', !Jut Moravc•k prPdicts good things l'rom tlwir 29th-ranked squad, 

.. I think w <' hav t' a good chan(·p of' making it to thP round of 32." t,.1oravPk said. "Our strength is dPfinitc\ly our shooting, so hop<'fully we'll b<' ablP to knol'k down somp shots." 
t\s a sophomort' at North Carolina. IJohPrty lwlpNI !Pad his school to tlw 1982 NCt\t\ Championship, or ('()Ul"SP, lw had a little assistitnn' from onP of Lhc\ besl baskPtball playc•rs of all tinw -fornH'r Chicago Bulls gr!'at Micha<•I Jordan. Looking back, Doherty jokPs that his main weak1wss as a rollPgc• player was giving .Jordan the~ ball too frcquf'ntly. 
"I passed tlw ball too much in collPgP," Dolwrty said. "I think it's Limn to makn up for that." 
With that in mind. tlw :~8­ynar-old coarh sPt down a half'­snrious ullimatum f'or llw otlwr guys on his Bookstorn tPam Shorknr. 
"Tlwy bPtlnr bP ablP to pass tlw ball and set a lot of scTP(•ns to g<'l me opnn," Dolwrty said. 
No matt!'r how murh timP Dolwrly s1wnt around baskPt­ball this yPar in rnaching tlw Irish lo a 22-1 :i rPrnrd. tlwrp's only so mul'h a p!•rson ran do wlwn lw's sitting on tlw lwnrh. That's why lw's looking for a rPtu rn lo tlw mort' al'tivP days 
o 1· h i s I) iv is io n I r a r P Pr. At North Carolina, lw bPramP just thn spc·ond player in /\tlanlir Coast Conferf'ncn history to tally 1.000 points. 400 rnbounds and 400 assists in his carPPr as a forward. 
Al'tPr !(1 ynars out of rolll'g<', 
see DOHERTY/page 27 

Godsey chases dream of leading Irish offense 
ByTlM CASEY 
As.sisunr Sports Editor 
llis father was an offensive guard at Alabama under legendary coach Bear Bryant: his broth(~r 
(;reg played at Air furre and another brothrr George is currently a quartnr­bark at (;eorgia Tech. Coming out of high school. he was heavily recruited by TennPssec. Purdue 

and Ohio Stale_ Godsey Hut when making his college decision, instfrnd of' being 
swayNI by any outside inllunncns. c;ary Godscv followed his lrnart. 
"I g,:PW up my whnln lifo dreaming of' going to NotrP Damn to play football." Godsf'y said. '"When you'rn getting recruitnd it's unbnlievable because all thcsn schools want you. T1\nness1\P's stadium was unreal: Ohio State's f'arili­tiP.S arc a.mazing; but when I came hem everything was what I drcamml it to be." 
Now, a year aJtf'r committing to the Irish, Godsey is competing f'or the most pnistigious position in college l"ootba!I: quartnrback at Notre Dame. 
Not bad for sornnone who just starLnd playing thf' position two and a hall' years ago 
It was six gamns into his junior sr.a­
son at .lnsuil lligh Srhool in Tampa. Fla., in the !'all of' 1')97; wlwn Codsny switched lo quarterback. lie had bnnn a startl•r at tight r1nd, defcnsivn r•nd. centt1r and long snappnr at Jesuit. But Godsey had nevPr taken snaps undnr centnr. 
.. lie 11hr. coach! thought I had a good arm and good mnchanks so hn put mn back tlwrn lat quarterback!," Codsny said. ''Everything worknd out." 
Forgive tho humbl(' Godsey !'or thn undcrslatPrnent. Jin quickly adaptnd to thn nnw position, !nading .Jesuit to thP league championship as a junior. Then, as a senior, in his first full year as a starlnr, Godsey passod for over 1,800 vards and 22 touchdowns "vhilc throwi;1g only four intnrrPptions. 

[)pspitc his suc·cnss at quartPrback. most schools, including Notre Danw wnrn morn intcrnstnd in Godsey as a tight c n cl or d r, I'<' n s iv<' en cl. Som<' coachns saw his sizr' ((,-foot-7 and 240 pounds) as a hindrancn for a futurP al quarterback. Goclsny rncPivPd intPrPsl from passing teams likP TennnssnP and Pu rd u n but when Im ,. hos(\ Not r n Damo. Im know the Irish roa!'hing staff viewed him as a tight nnd. 
But when tho Irish werP spurned on signing day a ynar ago by C..I. Ll'ak, who decidPd to attPnd Wakn Forest. l h c r r\ was a void at q u artn r b a(' k . Godsey talked to tl1<1 c:oarhing staff. asking if trn could gf'-l a shot at quar­
see GODSEY/page 29 

Soflball Sofrball at Purdue vs. Kalamazoo Women's Rowing
SPORTS 

Today, I p.m. Saturday, I p,m.
I Indiana Championships 
I 
I.._ ATA :ir West Lafayette, Ind t Men's Golf ;n Connccricm Saturday 
at Marshall lnvitation:il Saturday, I p. m.
GLANCE 
Friday-Sunday 





