,· I ------------· 
' . ' I 

No more 'Peanuts' 
Cartoon columnist Charles Schulz died in his home Saturday night at the age of77. His final strip ran today in newspapers across the country. 
WorldNation . page 5 

THE 
. Candidates reveal true colors in farcical debate 
By SAM DERHEIMER News Writer 
What was inttmdecl to be a gen­uine discussion of political views quickly degenerated into a series of ··assassinations," verbal rampages, attempts to get dates and random lilibuster-stylP campaign stratngies. 
In what could al times lw consid­
•~red a theatrical l'arci! ratlwr than a political debate, 10 tickets vying for Notre Danw student body pn\si­dc n t and vice prcsidPnt met Sunday to prns<'nl and debatP tlwir platforms to tlw student body. 
The mood or the debate vvas set early on, as the first ticket to pre­sent itself, Andrnw Sciallis and Daniel Saracino (or as they perfer to be called, Squirrel and D-nuts), presented their ''Keep your lingers crossed" campaign, which includes tlH\ destruction of Keenan-Stanford llall to build an u11dnrage sp1!akeasy. Tlw two yielded tlrnir remaining time to Hyan Clemency of tlw Smith-Clemency ticket (Greg Smith, the presidential nominee of thP ticket, was not actually present at the debate), which Clenrnncy promptly filled by reading passages from "Sacred Mountains of the World." 
The otlwr candidates \V<'rn not to be outdone. 
Chris Costigan, who was accom­panied by a body guard, ''purely for precautionary n~asons" stood \Vith a blank stani as his running mate, Pat \lcCormkk, was "assassinated" bv an assailant in a blue ski mask \Vho tired a cap gun at iVkCormick. The assailant scrcamPd, "Vot,~ Squirrel; ho's in pursuit of liberty!" and quickly ran out of the room. McCormick was then carried off 


Vote today On-campus students: Vote in residence halls.from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., and.from 5 to 7 p.m. Off-campus students: Vote in DeBartolofrom 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., the C1 parking lot.from noon to3:30 p.m., and LaFortunefrom 5 to 7 p.m.· 



Presidential candidate Ryan Clemency (left) reads from a guide to golf and "Darth" Todd 
see REACTION/page 4
see DEBATE/page 4 

Warapius (right) discusses his platform at Sunday's debate. 
U.S. senators introduce gambling legislation to campuses 
By KATE NAGENGAST News Writer 
Lawmakers worry that most 
amaleur athletes. under con­stant pressure to perform well academically and athletically, feel unneeded pressure from gamblers and bookies. To combat this issue, Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont and Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas introduced legislation last week to make wagering on college athletics illegal. 
According to The Chronicle of Higher Education, Leahy and Brownback said that amateur athletns deserve to 

'
I. 


be protected from the possibil­ity that their games could be fixed. Leahy specifically men­tioned the "vulnerable posi­tion [col­lege ath­letes are in] that threat­ens their integrity [and] the integrity of t h e i r schools." 
Kevin Pendergast, a former football and soccer player at Notre Dame, proved this vulnerability when, fol­lowing his graduation from 
Notre Dame, he conspired with members of' Northwestern ·s basketball team to fix three games dur­ing the 1994-95 season. 
In response, Notre Dame's athletes and sports adminis­trators have joined with other universities nationwide to support of The High School and College Gambling Prohibition Action introduced by Leahy and Brownback. The Act proposes to outlaw gam­bling on high school, college and Olympic sports. Additionally, the Act would force newspapers to stop pub­lishing betting lines on college games, and eliminate any con­

fusion regarding which states allow such betting and which do not. 
"Certainly we would be in favor of such [legislation]. especially given some of the incidences that have occurred ... namely the most recent Northwestern situation," said John Heisler, Notre Dame's assistant athletic director and director of sports information. 
However, Notre Dame is working to make Pendergast's experience an educational one. "All of our student-ath­letes have been well educated on [the risks of gambling involvement] through our Life Skills Program." Heisler said. 
"[The program] even involved Kevin Pendergast being here 
himself' to talk about his  own  
personal experiences  and  
what he's been through."  

"l don't look at who's favored. I just go out there and play," said Troy Murphy, a forward for the Irish bas­ketball team. "But I did get something out of that [Life Skills] Program -it's one thing to have people tell you the facts, but to have someone come back and tell you their personal experiences. It makes it a little more real, that it could truly impact 
see GAMBLING/page 6 
Heisler 
Monday 
FEBRUARY 14, 2000 
. Student leaders 'disappointed' by debate antics 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Staff Writer 
Candidates only have each other to blame for Sunday's debate deba­cle, student government represen­tatives said Sunday night. 
"It was an actual circus -three rings. I was pretty disappointed," said Judicial Council president Kelly Folks, who oversees elections. "Some of the candidates were look­ing to place blame everywhere but where it should be, which is right back on themselves." 
Candidates who complained that time ran short and antics ran long should recall harsh criticisms they posed about the inefficiency of stu­dent government at the start of the debate, Folks said. 
"\Nhen you denigrate the Office [of the President) like that, if you don't have respect for the job, you have to make that logical leap that you can't expect to be taken seri­ously about holding it," she said. 
Tickets with little student govern­ment experience generally were the ones complaining and disturbing the debate, said student body vice president Michael Palumbo 
"People are very quick to criticize when things aren't going their way," said Palumbo. "But it seems like they sure have plenty of oppor­tunity to pitch in along the way, and they don't." 
Student government does own blame for some of the chaotic event, however. The debate began 20 minutes late because an emcee cancelled at the last minute, Folks admitted. 
The debate itself, including seven 
student panelists, was fair, Folks 
said. Several questioners, who were

SUZANNE KELLMAN/The Observer 
__\ 
1.-' . ' f • • • • , ' 
, 
.. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, February 14, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Take your clothes off 

Whenever I mention that l modeled nude for a figure dravving class last semester. l usually get a variety of n~sponses. 
Some people say, "Cool." Some giggle. Some are shocked. But most react with an emphatic assertion that while it's tine for me, they would never do it. Thev could never be so vulnerable and exposed, especially in front of students they might know. They think their bod­ies are too this or too that. Thev aren't model material. 
Let me be the first to say 


Colleen N
that I am the furthest cry 

Gaughen
from Kate Moss. And I'm glad. Why would I want to look like sonwone I'm not? 

Vieu1point
Our bodies are gifts to be 

editor 
respPcted. not cursed for fail­ing to live up to the absolute­ly asinine beauty standards our culturP incessantly imposes on us. 

1am short. l am stocky. I will never bP able to wear those tiny straight dresses for Skipper fig­ures because I have German hips and can till out a bra. And the dresses that are made for us verti­cally-challenged hourglasses are too long. It's dif­ficult to find clothes that tit my unique figure. 
But it's still my figure. 

No matter how much I vmrk out and eat right. I will never fit the ridiculous cookie-cutter standard for the female body that bleeds into our con­sciousness through advertising, television and film. We are not even aware of how these images shape our perceptions of one another and, more importantly, of ourselves. 
Body image is essential to self-image, especially when hO\v you look still determines who you are, despite vehement arguments to the contrary. Look around. \Ve make judgment calls based on appearances, whether we can help it or not, and most of them revolve around the body. How this person dresses. Ilow this person \>\'ears their hair. How tall or short or fat or thin this person seems to bP. Wn assign meaning to those physical quali­ties, tlrnn makn assumptions about drnractPr. It's wrong. and it's u~aring our community apart. 
WI' all knmv that wav morn than thP annual percentage of studnnl'i. who go to the counseling cent<~rs at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's suffer from eating disorders. They livP down the hall. They work out in the gym. They dance at Heartland on Thursday nights. They are your lab partners. They am your roommatns. You might even be on,~ of'tlrnm. 
I was. 

I struggled with anorexia for threw years in junior high. My mom used to have the lunch ladiPs spy on me to soe if I was eating. I W<'llt for days. sonwtinws wePks. <'ating nothing but Grape Nuts and I )iPt Cok<'. Once I got rPally sick from running in tlrn rain during a storm at night. I could have bPPn rap1~d. I rnuld have been abduct­ed. And if I hadn't v,okPn up one day and asked myspJf' why I was doing this, I could have really slipped away. 
We will hl~ar a lot about eating disorders during this w,,nk of' awareness. But of all tlw information you receivP. whether you attend a talk or just pass a poster. remembPr that tlwsn illnessns are _ mental. Tlwy start in tlw head, poison tlw heart and eventually dPstroy the body. 
To batth1 thlml. \VP must strip our psyches or thP cultural standards or bPauty that surround us. We must stop judging on looks. \VP must stop cursing our bodies and start embracing them. 
We must take off our clothes. 

The views expressed in lhe Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Maureen Smirhe  Amanda Greco  
Anne Marie Martingly  Graphics  
Lindsay frank  Scott Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Mike Connolly  Mike Connolly  

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Florida students lose debit balance 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
The owner of the MealPass company, a business that sold debit cards that could be used at off-campus restaurants, said Thursday he will not be able to make good on his clients' investments. Stephen Johnston II, president of Univ(~rsity MealPass Corp., said he is too far in debt to refund balances left on his customers' cards wlwn he pulled his business out of Gainesville in November. Twelve people reported they lost money when Johnstnn, 28, stripped area restaurants of the machines needed to process the cards while they still had a remaining balance. "Unfortunately there is nothing I can do," Johnston said. "I feel very badly. There is no money for them to take." Johnston said he is about $100,000 in debt and plans to file for bank­ruptcy soon. On Nov. 29 the company left Gainesville having only a handful of' clients, Im said. Johnston said he sent e-mail messages to all his clients and posted a letter at all the rrstaurants where cards could be used. The letter stated that clients could call the com­pany's plHrne number and rnc(~ive a refund for their remaining bala.ncP. 

. LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Monday 
. CSC conference: 
Heconciliation and Henewal in Cities. McKenna Hall, 10:40 a.m. to 9:15 p.m. 
. Sophomore Literary Festival: \Nashington llall, 8 p.m. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Tuesday 
. Pinochet Lecture: C-103 Hesburgh Center, 
12:30 p.m. 
. Blood pressure screening: Rolfs Sports Hee Center Classroom, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
r.ott of South Carolina. Swarthmore College has decided to withdraw the spring break plans of six sports teams to train there. The affected teams -women's lacrosse, softball and tennis, as well as men's golf and men's and women's track and field -were scheduled to practice in Myrtle Beach and Hilton Head but are now arranging to travel elsewhere. 
The decision, made Tuesday afternoon, follows similar actions by Bryn Mawr and Haverford as well as Temple University, which arc all supporting an NAACP (National Association for the Advancement of Colored People) boycott of South Carolina because of the Confederate f'lag that flies 

Wednesday 
. International Film Festival: A Man of No Importance, Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 
Student Center, 8 p.m. 
. Sophomore Literary Festival: Washington Hall, 
8 p.m. 

Swarthmore relocates South Carolina training 
S\VARTHMOHE. Pa. until the flag is removed from Joining in the NAACP boy­the state capitol. where it has
1swA RT H M o R El 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
An:uWcathcr·• forecast for uaytime rnmlitions mid high temperatures 
H L 
Monday G 34 26 Tuesday 45 35
G 
Wednesday ~ 46 28 Thursday 
36 20 Friday /)G 39 27 
/ ~ .........~,,t; 
over the state Capitol. 

"The Swarthmore College admin­istration. affirming the value this institution places on a humane and just society, has decided that our spring athletic teams will support the NAACP boycott of South Carolina over the issue of the con­tinued display of the Confederate flag," President Al Bloom said in a statement Tuesday afternoon. Bloom was not on campus to com­ment Wednesday. 
The NAACP launched what it is calling "economic sanctions" against th,~ state on Jan. 1, asking people and groups with travel plans to South Carolina to cancel them 
Thursday 
. Medieval Seminar: 
Urban Culture Lecture, Hesburgh Library 614, 
3:30 p.m. 
. Poetry workshop: 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, 10 a.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
been flying since 1962. 
"I think in this case you've 
got a governmental body, the legislature. [displaying a symbol] which signals to a large segment of the population, and not just African-Americans, a time period of violence and repression, and slav­ery," said Maurice Eldridge, the col­lege's executive assistant to the president. I le said when an organi­zation like the NAACP takes such as stand. "it fits within our values to support them.'' 
But the college·•s decision has the coaches who had training plans for South Carolina scrambling to make new arrangements. \Vith the excep­tion of the men's golf team, all had tentative plans by Wednesday after­noon. 

U. Arizona hosts tolerance march 
TUCSON. Ariz. 

In ttw wake of' the weekend stabbing of a gay University of Arizona studnnt, a march protesting homophobia will wind its way through the campus area this Sunday a.nd culminate with a speak-out event on the University of Arizona Mall. UA assistant English professor David Hobinson and several mem­bers of the Tucson community -including the UA Pride Alliance and the local chapter of' the gay rights organization, Lesbian Avengers -are planning Urn march, which will begin at 2 p.m. Sunday. The march route will include tlw area whern the attack occurred. Lesbian Avengers' member DacP Park said demon­strators an~ Pncouraged to bring 11owers to drop on the street at the site. Both Park and Hobinson hope the demonstration will draw a large crowd of supporters. "We're optimistic wn'll havP several hundred," said Park. "W(~·re hoping for several morc." Hobinson has similar aspirations. 'Tm hoping we may very \veil have more than a thousand," he said. One of the attendees may bn UA President Pnter Likins, whom the march organizers hav!i invited to participalf\. 

The AccuWeather"" forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 14. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
........
4 s 

805 ~ 
C 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
®-tw©  .  . ITTI  .  .  D  'l:)  Q:~  ~;;i!!l...  
High  Low  Shower•  Rain  T••torma  Flurriea  Snow  tee  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Clo<>dy  

\.ia Anac,atrtd P,ess 

Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Atlanta 64 40 Las Vegas 70 52 Sacramento 64 46
Colleen Gaughen Kevin Dalum 
Baltimore 50 33 Memphis 58 42 SI. Louts 38 36 Boston 50 35 Milwaukee 50 43 SI. Paul 25 15
4,~-~4.Q.Q (f ~ ~ 

The Obsawr (l.'~l'S 'i'J9 2-4000) is p11blislied Mundar 1hroui,:h hitl.ty 
Chicago 32 26 New York 54 34 Tampa 80 60
Showers T-storms Ram F/~r~es S~; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy

except duriu!! t'x.1m .111d ,·.1c.111on perimk The Observer is., mrmll<'r of die 
Houston 76 56 Philadelphia 56 33 Washington, DC 59 35
V,a .4ssoc,ated Press GraptucsNet
Asso(i,ue,I Press. All r<:prud11c1io11 rii:hrs .,re rc:s..·rvc."tl. 
I I 


I > I ' I ' '
. t 
Monday, February 14, 2000 The Observer . CAM PUS NEWS page 3 
Gang members aim for right track 
Survey: ND students 
By TIM LOGAN News Editor 
Chicago's Cabrini Green housing projects are a world away from the campus of Notre Damli, but a discussion Saturday tried to bring those two \Vorlds a little closer together. 
F iv c c u r r ti n t a n d for m e r gang members from Cabrini Gn~en came to campus with Brother Bill Tomes and Brother Jim Fogarty to dis­cuss their lives with a roomful of' students at the Center for Social Concerns. Tomes and Fogarty minister to gang members in the projects, and have brought such groUP.S here for the past t 4 years in the hopes of dispelling myths 
about gang life and giving stu­dents a glimpse of that world. 
The gang members, who ranged from 24 to 31 years old and wen~ all fathers, talked about the importancn of raising their children to 
stay out of the gang life. 
"Nobody is l'orced to be in the gangs," said "Skin." All of the gang members went by their street names. "Kids arc only going to do what they sec the people on tlwir block do." 
T Im y d iscussed how boys , growing up, sec the people with money and power in their neighborhood and on their street and, when not in school or otlwrwise occupied, they start to affiliate with them, and they are introduced 

into the gang life. Gradually, school programs and sports they get more involved. Each and keeping children busy 
find personal balance 
of the five members said they and off the street was the best 
joined gangs in their early way to prevent them from teens, and all were involved joining a gang. Love is impor­
by the time they turned 15. Boys start in gangs even younger now, though, they. agreed. 
As Fogarty pointed out, being in a gang gives a young person access to money and feel­ings of safety and power. These three things are 
"Gangs give you power. You don 't have to listen to other people. You don't have to listen to your family.,. 
Brother Jim Fogarty gang minister 

often lacking otherwise, but they also enable a person to isolate himself and further 
enter the gang life. 
"1Vobody is forced to be in the gangs. Kids are only going to do what they see the people on their block do." 
"Skin" Chicago gang member 
"Gangs give you 
,, 
power, he said. "So you don't need help from other peo­ple. You don't have to listen to other peo­ple. You don't have 

to listen to your family. ·vou don't have to listen to your teachers, or your boss if you have a job." 
But that power has conse­quences, the panelists agreed. 
All five had been shot at least once. All but one had been imprisoned at some point. Now, they said, they try to keep their lives in order. Most are raising children and trying to prevent those chil­dren from making the same mistakes they did. 
They agreod that after-
love. 

Special to The Observer
t a n t too. If a 

An annual survey of college
boy is 

freshmen indicates that while
n o t 

the academic aspirations of
receiv­

first-year students at Notre
ing love Dame are exceptionally high,from his 

they expect to use theirparents, 
knowledge as much for the
·~ore" 

common good as for personal
said, he 
gain.
w i I 1 

Some 92 percent of Notre
turn to 

Dame's freshmen report that
t h e 

they plan to earn an advanced
streets 

academic degree -including
for that 

43 percent who will pursue a master's degree, 17 percent a 
during their four years on 
campus. 
The tendency toward service 
and social justice among Notre 
Dame students is likely linked 
to their commitment to reli­
gious faith and observance. 
Some 97 percent report they 
attended a religious service in 
the past year, compared with 
84 percent nationally. About 
55 percent spend one or more 
hours in prayer weekly (com­
pared with 32 percent overall) 
and 45 percent regularly dis­
cuss religious issues (com­
pared with 27 percent nation­
ally). 
Conducted by the Higher 
Education Research Institute 
at UCLA, the 33rd annual 
American Council on 
Education survey is designed 
to profile the political and 
social views -and the socioe­
conomic backgrounds -of 
the nation's college freshmen. 
This year's survey is based on 
the responses of 261,217 stu­
dents at 462 two-and four­
year institutions. 
Other observations drawn 
from the survey: 
. 
The Class of 2003 came to Notre Dame overwhelmingly because of the University's strong academic reputation. Some 95 percent cited this factor, about 37 percentage points higher than students nationwide. Notre Dame stu­dents also are right where they want to be, with more than 85 percent saying the University was their first choice, versus 71 percent else­where. 

. 
By significant margins over their peers, Notre Dame freshmen oppose both abor­tion (68 percent to 47 percent) and the death penalty (47 per­cent to 25 percent). 

. 
Notre Dame first-year stu­dents are opposed to casual sex, with more than 80 per­cent rejecting the statement "if two people really like each other, it's all right for them to have sex even if they've known each other for a very short time." About 59 percent nationwide are similarly opposed. 


But ultimately, those streets are unloving, and too few learn that in time, or are lucky enough to survive it, they agreed. 
"It ain't worth it," said "Doorknob," who is now out of the gangs. "Ti me passes just like this ... and there's a whole generation of brothers I was with, they're either in jail or dead." 
But, for now, these men work to keep their lives on the right track and help their families. 
'Tm just living and I hope I can maintain a good job for the rest of my life," "Skin" said. "It's not just about me, it's about my kids." 
Tomes and Fogarty founded Brothers and Sisters of Love, an organization dedicated to gang ministry. Their efforts to bring about peace in Cabrini Green by working with gang members, and not trying to change them, have been hailed nationwide. A movie is in the works about the pair and their work, according to Tornes. 

doctorate, 21 percent a med­
ical, dentistry or veterinary 
degree and 10 percent a law 
degree. By way of comparison, 
about 68 percent of students 
nationwide have similar plans. 
But as much as they are determined to succeed, Notre Dame students place relatively less emphasis on financial gain than their peers. Some 62 percent say it is essential or very important to be finan­cially stable, 11 percent less than the national average. 
At the same time, Notre Dame students reported far more interest than their peers in participating in community action, influencing soc_ial val­ues, becoming a community leader, developing a meaning­ful philosophy of life, and assisting those who are in dif­ficulty. 
Not surprisingly, such altru­ism also is found in Notre Dame students before and during their college years. Almost 97 percent of the University's freshmen report they performed volunteer work in the past year, com­pared with 75 percent of stu­dents nationally and 58 per­cent plan to continue with community service, as com­pared to some 19 percent nationally. 
Interestingly, Notre Dame freshmen are likely underesti­mating their future volunteer efforts; the University's Center for Social Concerns reports that almost 80 percent of Notre Dame students actually engage in volunteer projects 
Saint Ma~~s College NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 27th Annual LONDON SU.MivlER PR.OG~ May 24 -June 19, 2000 FINAL Informational Meeting 6:00-8:00 p.m., Wednesday, February 16 Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center ."· ·:·, . t M I C 11 '•i;,,­S,­a1n ary_ s_ 01 ege ;Ii ~:;:it·. ~=!'"......==--===......====--=.=::=~==~====::::::=I,, Courses offered in History, Art, Sociology. For further information contact: Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4866  

JPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJP 
juniors! 
So close to JPW.... Don't forget to pick up your tickets! 
FEBRUARY 15th and 16th 
Corby Room 
_t~$~Cent&i 7·00-I 0:00,pm, 
The collection for the JPW mass will he taken at pick-up. A $2 
donation is suggested. The collection will go to the local charity 
There Are Children Here 
JPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPW JPW JP 
I I . . ' 
t ' 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 14, 2000 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
stage by his bodyguard. 
He was the first candidate to leave the debate without returning. lie would not be the last. 
The extremely lively crowd actually counted down the last 15 seconds of Clemency's time, which was spent read­ing from a golf book, "Getting Up and Down: How to Save Strokes from 40 Yards and In." 
Presidental candidate Mathew Flatow decided to use his three minutes to ver­bally assault the current stu­dent government, The Observer, Scholastic Magazine and basically any­one and everyone else he could. 
Visibly upset over being labeled a "joke ticket," flatow screamed, "Student govern­ment is a sham! It's all about respect and I've gotten no respect!" He then threw the microphone on the floor and charge out of the room. 
Adam Dinnell, Flatow's running mate, then closed the rest of the team's time, say­ing, "I have nothing more to say that is <~ither relevant or true." 
"Darth" Todd Warapius and "Darth" George Coppinger, were une of the more well behaved tickets of the debate. Their platform, however, remained rather sci-Ii. 
"Darth" Todd continued to advocate his plans of com­plete domination and forced order. 
"Any club can exist," "Darth" Todd said of diversity on campus, "as long as they pledge allegiance to us." The "Darths" also advocated ban­ning all J. Crew and Abercrombie and Fitch cloth­ing from cam pus in an attempt to "spur individual development." 
Not all the candidates took the debate so lightheartedly though. 
Joe Shepard and Jim Focht used their time to express their vision of a new, reformed student govern­ment. 
"I was motivated to run by frustration," said Shepherd. "Student government is not rocket scifmce. The problem is not recognizing things that could be done better, it's actually getting them done." 

Shepherd and Focht utilized the majority of their time in advocating their primary campaign promise of making student government more rel­evant to students, "We are very serious about making [Teacher Course Evaluations] available and getting more social space," Shepherd said. "We've been told that if we work, we can do this." 
John Osborn and Mark Donahey also focused on making student government more relevant to everyday students. 
"Look, we're just two guys from campus," said Osborn. "We might be lousy politi­cians. but we think there are some things on this campus that could be changed." 
The two candidates reiter­ated their ideas of a home­coming weekend, off-campus service shuttle and more stu­dent involvement in University governance. 
"Student governments of past have been completely self serving. existing entirely in their own world," said Osborn. "It's time to bring it back to the studcnL'>." 
Despite interruptions from Sciallis (Squirrel), who stripped down to red and white pajamas in order to ask vice presidential candidate Brooke Norton on a Valentine's Day date, and Costigan. who began walking around stage with a tray of cookies, Brian ()'Donoghue and his running mat<~ Norton kept their poise. They pre­sented their prosposals for the Rectors' Endowment Fund and a greater concen­tration on women's and diversity issues. 
"Everyone is saying that student government does nothing for our daily lives." O'Donoghue said referring to his Hectors' Endowment Fund, "well, here is some­thing student government could do. to make your lives a little easier." 
Responding to why he was running. O'Donoghue said, "We love the students of this University, and we want to make their lives a little easier. Notre Dame is not about buildings, land and money, it's about the students." 
Hunt Hanover and John 
Micek, who were also forced 
to ignore the antics of other 

The Environmental research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science & Technology, will award up to two Summer 2000 internships at ANL in argonne, IL-with a follow­up campus research appointment in the Fall. Stipend, roon1 & board are provided for the 10-week pro­gram. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an e11viro11111enral/y­related discipli11e (any field <>(study) concerned with or /ikelv to con-· trilmre to the underMc111di11J.:, assessment, or improvement o/the e11viro11­me11t. Applicu/lls must lw US citi._en.,· or permanellt residents, enrolled at Notre Dame. have completed their Junior Year h\' Mav 2000 a11d he 
. . ' 
registered to return i11 1/,e Fall of2000. 

For more details, contacl the Center for Environmental Science & Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick hall. 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an applicatinn. 
Application deadline is February 23, 2000 
Summer Internship Opportunities 
candidates during their time, presented their vision of a more accessible student gov­ernment. 
"Student government shouldn't be confined to the second 11oor of LaFortune," said Hanover. "We need to take it out to the students." Micek continued this senti­ment, "Hunt and I believe that we can be day-to-day leaders. We believe that everything we do can be accomplished by the time we hand over our administration next year." 
The question and answer period of the debate did not go much smoother. Clemency responded to his question by reciting lyrics to pop star Britney Spears' "Baby. One More Time." Sciallis, who instead of answering his question, used his time to solicit a date from Norton, and then ran out of the room after receiving a hug from her. (Ile did not return.) Costigan, after quickly answering his question on how he would get the student body more involved in cam­pus governance, yielded the rest of his time to Clemency, who proceeded to read from "War and Peace" for the remainder of Costigan's time. 

"It was a difficult environ­ment," said Shepherd after the debate. 'There were a lot of issues I would have loved to debate with some of the candidates." 
Shepherd said that because of the rowdy candidates and crowd he felt he did not get that opportunity, "People are just going to vote for who The Observer or Scholastic tells them to, and because of what went on today, we didn't get a chance to change that," he said. 
Other candidates didn't take so much oflense. 
"They were hilarious," O'Donoghue said of the less­th an-serious candidates. "Everyone has the right to run, it brought a little life to the debate." 
And despite the constant distractions, he said the debate was a success. "I think we got our word out," O'Donoghue said. "A lot of people heard what we had to say, and I think we changed some people's minds." 
Micek echoed O'Donoghue's enthusiam. 
"It shows we can talk off the cuff," he said of the debate. "Everything we said was true to our platform and beliefs." 
Reaction 
continued from page 1 
well-versed on ticket platforms, arrived with two types of inquiries: one for "seri­ous" candidates and one for the others. 
"I looked at some of the issues reported in student publications before the debate," said panelist Heather Volk. co-president of Hall Presidents' Council. "I asked ques­tions relevant to the platform of the candi­dates, but if you look at the relevance of some of the platforms to student govern­ment, it was ridiculous." 
Volk, for instance, asked "Darth'' Todd Warasius and "Darth" George Coppinger how they'd deal with administrators if planned Jedi mind control failed. Their response -"execution" -was appropri­ate to the question but not to Notre Dame student government, Volk explained. 
Audience composition also was criti­cized, as more than half of attendees hailed from Zahm Hall. Inadequate pub­licity of the event -which included dorm flyers and one ad in The Observer -was due, in part, to low involvement by dorm representatives and few campus-wide ads, Folks said. 
Overall and considering the last two weeks' events, though, Murphy said changes am in order. 
"I think it's pretty clear," he said, "with this debate and with Mr. [Brian] O'Donaghue's suspension and the Saint Mary's election, I think we're going to be looking at some election reform here." 

A Festival of Films on Africa and the African Diaspora 
20 February-29 February 2000 Sponsored by The African and African-American Studies Program Screenings and Related Events 
Sunday. 20 Februar}' 2000 

3.30 
p.m.-Heshurgh Center Auditorium Opening Ceremony and Reception featuring a dance performance by Yakhub Kouyate and his Mandi Djalli Group. 

4.30 
p.m.-Hcsburgh Center Auditorium Sankofa. by Haile Gerima from Ethiopia. 1993 (125 mins.). 



Monday, 21 February 2000 

4.15 p.m.-Heshurgh Center Auditorium Warrior Marks. hy Pratihha Parmar and Alice Walker. 1993 (54 mins.) 
7.00 p.m.-lkshurgh Center Auditorium Pieces d'ldentite. by Mweze Ngangura. 1998 (94 mins.). 
Tuesday. 22 February 2000 

4.15 p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium Women With Open Eyes. by Anne-Laure Folly. 1994 (52 mins.). 
7.00 p.m.-Hesburgh Center Auditorium La Genese (Genesis). by Cheick Oumar Sissoko. 1998 ( 102 mins.). 
Wednesday, 23 February 2000 
4.15 p.m.-Hcsburgh Center Auditorium Frosh. by Dayna Goldfine and Dan Geller. 1993 (98 mins. ). 

7.00 p.m.-Hcshurgh Center Auditorium Shattering the Silences. by Stanley Nelson and Gail Pellett. 1997 (86 mins. ). 
Thursda}", 24 February 2000 

4.15 p.m.-Heshurgh Center Auditorium La Tete Dans Les Nuages (Head in the Clouds). hy Jean-Marie Teno. 1999 (52 mins.). 
7.00 p.m.-Heshurgh Center Auditorium Cry the Beloved Country. by Darell Rood!, 1995 (94 mins.). 
Friday. 25 February 2000 

4. 15 p. m. -CI 03/Hesburg:h Center Uehind These Walls: Mumia Ahu-Jamal and the Long Struggle for Freedom, hy Jules Buerjcs and Heike Kleffner. 1996 (70 mins.). 
Sunday, 27 February 2000 
7.00 p.m.-Hcsburgh Center Auditorium Black Athena. by Bandung File. 1991 (52 mins.). 
Mondav. 28 February 2000 
4.15 p.m.-Heshurgh Center Auditorium A Son of Africa. by Alrick Riley. 1996 (28 mins.). 

7.00 p.111.-Hcshurgh Center Auditorium 0 Testamento Do Senlwr Napumoceno (Napumm:eno's Will). hy Francisco Manso. 1998 ( 110 mins.). 
Tuesda,, 29 February 2000 
-4.15 p.m.-Hcsburgh Center Auditorium 

La Petite Vendeuse De Soleil (The Little (;irl Who Sold the Sun). hy Djihril Diop t\fambcty. 1999 (-45 mins.). 
Art Exhibition 
An Art Exhihition sponsored by Thiam Collection (Senegal) will he held in conjunction with the Film Festival. It will he located in the lohhy or the 1-ksburgh Library from Mom.lay. 21 February through Friday. 25 February 2000. 
-' 

Monday, February 14, 2000 COMPII.ED FHOM THE 0BSEHVEH WIHE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
20,000 strangers marry in mass wedding 
SEOUL 

For most bridPs, a wedding without a bridP­groom would bl' diffirult to imagine. But I.Pe llwa-shin said she couldn't bP happier, PVPn though slw and her futurP husband were mar­ri1•d without evPr having met. )pp was among 10.()00 rnuplcs who tiPd tlw knot Sunday in a mass W<'dding organizPd by tlw Unification Church of' H1•v. Sun !'vtyung Moon. Tlw vast ma,iori ty of" tlw ncwlywPds were compl!'te strangers matdwd by <"hurch ol'ficials. "I am very happy although my husband is not hem." said Lee, a 20-yi~ar-old South KorPan dPsign studt'nt. as she shiv,wnd in cold weathm· al SPoul's Olympic Stadium. She held a framPd picturP of' hPr nP\Y husband. Tokumasa Yamashita. in a blark suit. Slw said Yamashita, a 20-year-old Japarn1s1) man studying computer PnginPPring in tlw Unit!~d States, couldn't get a visa in tinw to attPnd. At the nnd of the cArnmo­ny, l.('P took out a goldPn ring and slipped it on lwrsPII'. 
Study finds salmon serve as natural recyclers 
CHANTS PASS. On•. 

:\ growing body ol' sci1\lllil'ir <'vidPncP is sho\\'ing that salmon art' mor<' than just a nrnjPstic sport fish, a tasty Pntn~(\. an 1~conom­ic n·sourt'<' or a cultural icon. From Alaska to California. llwy sc•rv<' as a hug<' natural rl'cy­c!Pr. rPsponsiblP f"or transporting organic matNial tlwy Pat in tlw o,·1•ans and ston' in tlwir bodiPs bef'on' s\vimming to tlw heachva­tPrs of \\·awrshPds, !Paving their carcasses to foNI insncts. bPars. plants. trPPs and particu­larly baby salmon. A rncnnt study published in tlw journal Fislwrins t•stirnaws that as littln as S rwrcPnt or thP hislorintl biomass of salmon is rPturning to its nativn waLPrslwds. <T<'ating a dramati,· shortag1• or nutrients dPrivnd from tlw ornan. ThP rncyrling role is so important that rt'storation of' wild salmon in tlrn Pacific Northwest "is hinging on rPrognition of' this isstw." said J<'ff CPdPrholm. a lislwries srinn­tist with tlw Washington Dnpartment or Natural Hnsourrl's. 
10-year-old executes father's killer in front of thousands 
K:\NI >.\I lt\l{. Afghanistan 

Thousands of" p<•opl<' watclwd Sunday as a I 0-y<'ar-old boy publicly ('XPl"UtPd a man con­vict<'ci by an Islamic rourt ol" murdering bis l"ath<~r. In a sports stadium in southern Kandahar. tlw boy shot tlw man. icfontifi~d as Mohamnwd Hashim, four times with a rille. UndPr thn Taliban's strict intnrprPtation of Islam, n~latives of a victim carry out thn death SPntencP. Th<\ boy. who was th1' eldest male memb<~r or his family, was arrnmpanied by his mother. sister and (>-year-old brother. 

S&P 500: ( ·ompositt· 
\'olurnr:
1387.12
10425.21 1.255.0H.7611
-29.71 
VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY TtCK8R "-CHANG& i CHANCE PRICE 
MICROSOFT  CORP  MSFT  -5. 72  -6.0600  99.94  
DELL COMPUTER  DELL  -4.94  -1.9169  36.88  
CISCO  SYSTEM'S  csco  -3.68  -4.9975  130.94  
Mel  WORLDCOM  IN  WCOM  +l,l4  +0.5675  50.38  
ORACLE  CORP  ORCL  -4.21  -2.6225  59.69  
CYTOGEN CORt>  CY-TO  +1'3.Sl  +l.4350  12.06  
FLAO  TELECOM  FTHL  +35 . .42  +8.5000  3.2. 50  
NETWORK  ASSOC  NETA  •12.75  +3.5625  31.SO  
PAQINC  NETWORK  PAGE  +21. 76  +0.5575  3.12  
INTEL  CORP  INTC  -1.62  -1.7450  105.88  

YUGOSLAVIA 


AFP Photo 

A British NATO soldier argues with an ethnic Albanian man as he tries to prevent them from crossing the bridge in Kosovska Mitrovica. Heavy fighting broke out in the area between NATO peacekeepers and snipers Sunday. 
Fighting kills one, wounds 19 
One soldier was wounded in the late Sunday, NATO said, but gave no 
Associated Press 

stomach while on patrol in the Serb details. Peacekeepers imposed a cur­
part of the city, Chanliau said. The few from sunset to daybreak. 
KOSOVOSKA MITHOVICA second soldier was shot in the arm Bursts of semiautomatic gunfire 
Fighting between peacekeepers and after NATO peacekeepers launched a could be heard from the northern side snipers. along with grenade attacks on counterattack, he said. of the mostly Serb city located about ethnic. Albanians, killed one person The counterattack killed one of the 20 miles north of Pristina. Occasional and r<'portedly wounded 19 Sunday in snipers and wounded five others. explosions sounded over the gunfire, the bitterly divided city of Kosovska Grenade attacks on ethnic Albanian which died down by afternoon. Mitrovka. houses in the north wounded seven. Some sniping continued, Chanliau 
'l\vo of the wounded wern French NATO otlicials said. And an American said. but the peacekeepers had locat­soldi11rs. hit by dhnic Albanian with the U.N. police force was also ed the positions from where the snipers firing from tho northern, Serb­injured by glass shards, after gunfire snipers were liring. controlled part of th(~ city, NATO ofli­from outside broke the windows of a Serb sources. who asked for cials said. train he was riding on. anonymity, said the trouble began 
"It was an attempt to kill our sol­Yugoslavia's state-run news agency, when several ethnic Albanians from diers," French spokesman Lt. Col. Tanjug, said four more people, identi­the southern side crossed a bridge Patrique Chanliau said. "We would fied as Serbs. were wounded, at least over the !bar Hiver leading to the Serb like to believe it was an isolated inci­some by snipers. side and threw several hand dent of extremists. of terrorislo;;." Seventeen people were detained by grenades.
Jli•, . · 

''Peanuts'' cartoonist Schulz dies at 77 
was gone, it was over," history, and nothing's ever sional flight of fancy back to Associated Press Monte Schulz said Sunday. approached it," said Mell the skies of World War I "lie had done what he had Lazarus. who draws the and his rivalry with the Hed 
SANTA HOSA, Calif. wanted to do. and that was "Momma"and"Miss Peach" Baron. 
"Peanuts" creator Charles it for him." strips, and knew Schulz for The strip was an intensely Schulz died at home follow­The son said that while 42 years. "He's going to be personal effort for Schulz. ing a battle with cancer, the cause of death Saturday missed and will clearly He had had a clause in his just as the last original car­wasn't known, "it appears never be replaced." contract dictating the strip toon of his half-century he died in his sleep, almost The famous strip with its had to end with his death. rarnPr was bc~ing published between breaths." His \-Vife, gentle humor spiked with a No one could imitate it. in rwwspapers worldwidP. Jeannie, was with him child's-eye view of human While battling cancer, he 
The 77-year-old Srhulz when he died. foibles had one particularly opted to retire it, saying he was diagnosed with colon On ne-ws of his passing, endearing trait: constancy. wanted to focus on his ranrer in November. and fans and colleagues across Year after year, the long­health and family without his spirits recently sagged the country hailed Schulz as suffering Charlie Bro\\"11 the worry of a daily dead­as lw battled the di'>case an irreplaceable artist faced misfortune with a line. and pondered rntirement. whose work over the years mild, "Good grief!" Tart­Itis last daily comic ran in said Monte Schulz, his had become infused in tongued Lucy handed out early January, and the final eldest son. American popular culture. advice at a nickel a pop. farewell strip appeared in 
"I think maybe Im decided "I think 'Peanuts' has And Snoopy, Charlie rwwspapers on Sunday. Old that his true passion was in bnen for most of its nxis• Brown's wise but weird versions of the strip will th1~ strip. and wlwn that tence the best comic strip in beagle, still took the occa-continue to be published. 

., . ., ' .. I f f 
, I I• 


I , , I ' 
.. 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, February 14, 2000 
Gambling 
continued from page 1 
someone  here  at  Notre  
Dame."  
"It is hard  to  find  some­ 

thing more compelling than that: sonHHHlP who was here as one of' our most successful student­athletes Wiling his story. It proves that-it happen here; it can happen any­where," Heisler said. 
According to The Chronicle, NCAA officials concede that far more money is bet illegally across the country and every campus has student bookies. 
"I think [the legislation is a good idea] but I still think people would lg,~m­ble] illegally ... pc~oplc might find a way around it," Murphy said. 
"It's an ongoing thing that you need to remind people of. there can some­times be a tendency to think this is something that you don't have to con­sider, but there have been enough high profile inci­dences to raise conscious­
,, 
ness among everyonn, said Heisler. "Many insti­tutions are wonderi~1g how we can raise awareness among our student ath• letcs -that's what we hope Life Skills is doing." 

ISRAEL 
Deadline prompts concern in the Middle East 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

It was supposed to have been a day of clarity, the first time Israelis and Palestinians out­lined the shape or a perma­n e n t , peaceful coexis­tence. 
Instead, Sunday, the dead­line for the framework of' a final status agreement on the conflict's toughest issues -Jerusalem, final bor­ders and refugees -was a blur of recriminations and dire predictions for a peace process gone awry. 
Palestinians accuse Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak of neglecting them to focus on talks with Syria; Israelis say Palestinian leader YassfH Arafat is asking for too much, too soon. 
Talks broke down early this month, and neither side knows when they will resume. The delay could jeopardize the Sept. 13 deadline Barak and Arafat have set for a full-

l1cdged permanent agreement. And missing that datt>, both sidrs worry. could lead to a total peace breakdown. 
Barak told his Cabinet on Sunday that "our responsibility is to try to reach arrangements bv the end of this year." 
. " 'I' h f,·' 
interest of terrorist groups to torpedo the process is very high," Barak said, according to an offi­cial in his office who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty. 
In an effort to get the Palestinians back to the table, Barak's chief negotiator said, Israel was ready to concede a key Palestinian demand: a con­tiguous block of land in the West Bank, seen by the Palestinians as a crucial underpinning to a future state. 
Oded Eran -also said explicitly · for the first time that Israel will have to give up some Jewish settlements. 
"I would have expected the Palestinian side to show the same good faith, to come with clear positions on issues to move forward the negotia­tions," he told The Associated Press. 


Palestinians countered that Israel was wrapping offers that should have been part of an interim agreement into a per­manent status agreement -a ploy, they say, to make less seem like more. 
"Now Mr. Barak wants to merge the third phase Iof an interim agreement] with the permanent status," top Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat told the AP. "We won't allow him. we won't let him do that." 
A similar disagreement broke up the talks on Feb. 3, when Arafat learned that Barak was not prepared to hand over Arab suburbs of Jerusalem as part of an interim withdrawal from 6.1 percent of the West Bank. Palestinians said that showed bad faith. 
Eran hinted that the suburbs will go to the Palestinians as part of a final agreement, and chided the Palestinians for stoking hard-line Israeli oppo­sition to the talks by demand­ing the suburbs now. 
"Raising the [Jerusalem I issue now causes political problems in Israel," he said. 
The result is that the sides are hardly speaking, and Israeli security forces, acting on intelligence reports, braced on Sunday for a wave of terror­ist activity. 
One poll showed that support among Palestinians for violent attacks against Israel had increased from 36 percent in December to 43 percent. The poll by The Center for Palestine Hescarch and Studies had a margin of error of 3 percent­age points. 
Palestinian leaders said Barak would do well to heed their growing disappointment. 
"This reflects very negatively on the peace process," a top Arafat aide, Nabil Abourdeneh, told the AP. 
The official at the Cabinet meeting quoted Barak as say­ing that both sides must take responsibility for the missed deadline: Barak for dithering five weeks over whom to name to his team, and Arafat for ignoring the talks for a month in a fit of pique prompted by renewed Israeli-Syrian talks in December. 
The efforts with Syria have meanwhile collapsed, and guerrilla. attacks on Israe Ii troops in Lebanon have risen dramatically. 


is now accepting applications for the THE following positions on the 
1999-2000 General Board 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge ofQuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff ofdesigners, works closely with advertising and market­ing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge ofcomputer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the 11se of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and ta~es, accounts payable, cost­tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for worl<lng with the editorial departmc111~ ofThe Observer in order to update the site each day. GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have a solid journalism background and good people skills. 
AD MANAGER Applicants should be a business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's with experience in ad sales. The Ad Manager must have people skills in order to oversee an ads staff. SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a thorough knowledge ofsports joumali<im. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and th:: ability to manage a staffofeditors and columnists. PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a thorough knowledge of journalism and photography. SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a desire to creating interesting entertainment related features and managing a staff. 



Anyfull-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint /vfary's is encouraged to apply. A three-page statement ofintent anda resume must be 
submitted by Thursday, Feb. 17 to the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. 


C a a £& as a uq e a a sq a a a a 
f I I I ',' • 
Monday, February 14, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Clinton welcomes Hispanic leaders 


food stamp programs, and for valor during the Vietnam Associated Press tried to keep illegal immigrant War. Hascon's immigrant sta­
rhildrPn out of public schools. tus got nearly equal billing
\\',\Slll!\J(;T<)N 

In tlw past two presidential with his battlefield heroism. 
For tlw third tinw in a \\'f'Pk, 

Plections. llispanics voted Also last week, HispanicPn~sidPnt Clinton is WP!coming 
overwlwlmingly for Clinton -nrnmbers of Congress nrnt with llispanir leadPrs to llw \Vhitl' 72 1wrcent to 21 percent in Clinton and top aides to dis­
llousP. AidPs say it ri•flpcts I<J <) 6 , a n d h l p n r cent to 2 5 cuss three Hispanic nominens r o n (' (' r n 
pt!l'CPIH in 1992. f'or federal judgnships. None 11 i s p a 11 i c But Bush has shO\yn he can has boen confirmed by the vowrs may 
attract support from Hepublican-led Senate. 
overlook 
Hispanics. ThP Texas gover­although the GOP leadership
Clinton's 
nor. who somPtimes speaks to has promised a vote by mid­record in 
Hispanic crowds in Spanish. \.tarch on Hichard Paez, whos<i 
favor or 
too k 4<J JHH c e n t of th e nomination has languishedGeorge \V. 
llispanic vote during his re­!'our years.Bush. election in 1998. according to Clinton was struck by
T h <! 

a statewide elnction-day poll national polls last month vV h i t 1• 
bv the Votnr News Servicl~ for reflecting growing Hispanicllouse is "(he Associat('d Press and tele­support for Republicanseizing on tlw <·halln) to high­
vision networks. themes. said the White Mouse light the Clinton administra­
ThP \'Vhitn Jlouse ceremony official. who spok<~ on condi­
tion's rncord on behalf ol' tlw is in recognition of Clinton's tion of anonymity.
nation's fastest-growing popu­record and docs not amount to As a result, the presidentlation group. 
a political endorsement, said wants to make Hispanics"The president himself has 
Brent \Vilkcs, national execu­aware of his record and stakes noticed that tlw Latino com­
tive director of the nonparti­involved in this year's election, munity is intrigued \Vith the 
san group. the official said. Hnpublican Party and the Bush 
During its annual legislative Last month, a Public Policycandidacy," a senior adminis­meeting this week, the group Institute of California polltration official said. will hear from a prominent showed that Bush, the GOP On Monday, Clinton was to Hispanic member of' the presidential front-runner. rncoivB a lifetime achievement administration, Army would draw at least 40 per­award from the League of Secretary Louis Caldera, as cent of the Hispanic vote in United Latin American well as an equally prominent November -almost double 
Citizens. the first time the Hispanic Republican and fre­what Republican nominee Bob nonpartisan group has hon­quent Clinton critic, Rep. Dole received in 1996. orPd a presidc>nt. 
Ileana Hos-Lehtinen of Top Republican officials Clinton plann1~d to cite Florida. have said the GOP must cap­expansions or education and "It's good for the community ture at least 40 percent of the 
health-care programs that 
to be sought after by both par­Hispanic vote to remain com­haV<\ bPnnf'ited II ispanics. as ties," Wilkes said. "I don't petitive.well as n~cord lows in unem­
think it's healthy to be identi­The survey showed Bush ployment and the poverty rate lied with only one party." would draw 40 percent of the among Hispanics. Last week, Clinton paid trib­Hispanic vote against Vice 
Hepublicans. lw may note, ute to Alfred Hascon, an immi­Presidimt Al Gore and 45 per­havn moved to cut legal immi­grant from Mexico belatedly cent against Democrat Bill grants f'rom the Medicaid and 
awarded the Medal of llonor Bradley. 
Lawsuit claims black 
farmers denied funds 
she would owe on the settle­Associated Press 
ment. 
About 18,000 farmers filed 

ALBANY, Ga. claims under the settlement. 
A lead attorney in a class­and checks began going out 
action lawsuit filed by black in November. But Chestnut farmers against the U.S. said more than 40 percent of Department of Agriculture the claims have been reject­said too many farmers -ed. They can appeal the about 40 percent -have denials to a court monitor. 
been denied compensation in "\Ve intend to appeal the federal settlement. them," Chestnut said. "I've 
The settlement, approved got farmers who might not by a federal make it to judge in next year." April, "The government is too Hand i 
ended a Hoth, a
damn white, and the
lawsuit that n e w l y 
accused the folks in charge ofthis 
appointed USDA of lawsuit are too indepen­
regularly dent moni­
white for me.,.
denying tor, told subsidies farmers and other J. L. Chestnut that her assistance lawyer office has to black t h r c e farmers objectives: 
because of their race. to review decisions, to solve "The fight is not over." problems and to issue lawyer ,J.L. Chestnut said 
reports.Saturday to 200 farmers at a "If you think your decision 
conference here. "The gov­is wrong in any way, you can ernment is too damn white, request a monitor reviewing,"and the folks in charge of this she said. "But the office can­
lawsuit are too white for me." 
not overturn a decision.... Under the settlement. farm­We can only say whoever ers who can show evidence of made the decision should discrimination are entitled to look at it again."
$50,000 each and to have The department's civil outstanding loans forgiven. rights director has said the An additional $12,500 is farmers· claims will be inves­being sent to the Internal tigated to determine which 
Revenue Service in the name Agriculture Department of each farmer to cover the employees were involved in federal income taxes he or 
discrimination. 
8 

FRESHMAN TRIP TO CHICAGO SIGN UP FOR YOUR SPACE 
@ 
ANTHONY TRAVEL FEB. 14 -MARCH 12 FIRST 140 FRESHMAN ONLY 
Pick up DATAMATCH love lists in North & South Dining Halls Monday and Tuesday $1 
!~ 
~ 
---,' ---~-----~------------------------.._...........................--i______ 
,,
.~~, 
."
i'<l,
11, 
;X 
~i/, 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 14, 2000 
:~ 
~ 
,,, ..i/li 
i ' ' 
' 
-
. 
' 
~ 
r1 
,,' 
DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
RECONCILIATION & RENEWAL IN THE CITIES: y, IL FAITH-BASED INITIATIVES 
A CLASSROOM-CONNECTED CONFERENCE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FEBRUARY 13-15, 2000 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 13 
11:45 AM 
4-5:30 PM 

7:30-8:45 PM 
l f r MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14 
r 
10:40-11:30 AM 11:45 AM-12:35 PM 12:50 -1:40 PM 
4:30-5:30 PM 
8-9:15 PM 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15 
9:30-10:45 AM 2-3:15 PM 3:30-4:45 PM 
ALL CONFERENCE SESSIONS ARE HELD IN 
McKENNA HALL 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 

MOST REV. DALE MELCZEK, DIOCESE OF GARY, INDIANA 
HOMILIST. BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
REV. J.BRYAN HEHIR, SJ, HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
"THE CHURCH, THE CENTURY, THE CITY" 

"LIVING IN THE CITY TODAY: CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES" 
SR. DONNA CIANGIO, OP, NATIONAL PASTORAL LIFE CENTER. NEW YORK MR. LEONARD CALABRESE. DIOCESE OF CLEVELAND NIKOLAS GREEN, '01 AND ANGELA ANDERSON, '00. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CLASSROOM-CONNECTED SESSIONS TEODORA TRUJILLO, CO-CHAIR OF EPISO, EL PASO 
"RENEWAL IN THE NATION'S LARGEST BORDER COMMUNITY" 
REV. CHARLES DAHM, OP 

"RESURRECTION IN A MEXICAN NEIGHBORHOOD IN CHICAGO" 
ELEANOR JOSAITIS, FOCUS HOPE, DETROIT 
"PASSION FOR CHANGE" 

DR. MONIKA HELLWIG, ASSOCIATION OF CATHOLIC COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 
"CURRICULAR CHALLENGES FOR RECONCILIATION AND RENEWAL" 

REV. VIRGILIO ELIZONDO, ARCHDIOCESE OF SAN ANTONIO 
"LATINO FAITH-BASED INITIATIVE: HOPE AND IMAGINATION" 
CLASSROOM-CONNECTED SESSIONS 

MSGR. WILLIAM LINDER, NEW COMMUNITY CORPORATION, NEWARK 
"ATTACKING POVERTY IN A CIVIL SOCIETY" 
REV. MICHAEL IVERS 

"THE CALL TO BE CHURCH AFTER CHURCH IN THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY" 
LEN CALABRESE, DIOCESE OF CLEVELAND 

"FROM SAFETY NET TO SPRINGBOARD: THE CHURCH AS ECONOMIC ACTOR" 
ALL EVENTS ARE FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. 

CO-SPONSORED BY: THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION, THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, AND THE CENTER FOR PASTORAL LITURGY, WITH SPECIAL THANKS TO THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LITTERS AND THE PROVOST'S OFFICE. 
·' a a a ,( L us .~W 2 C qq sq a £& &lJ 22 a 
I .... •< ¥ 
1' f I
' 

' 

Monday, February 14, 2000 page 9 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

YUGOSLAVIA 
Romania's Tisa River struggles after cynide spill 

Associated Press 
BECEJ 

Serbia announced Sunday that it will demand compensa­tion at an international court from those responsible for a cyanide spill that contaminat­ed a major river, destroying most aquatic life. 
The spill in the Tisa Hiver, which originated in Romania, apparently sunk to non-lethal levels Sunday after reaching the Danube. Before that, how­ever, it had devastated the river in llungary and Serbia. Serbian Environment Minister Branislav Blazic said it would take at least five years for life in the Tisa to recover. 
Blazic accused Homania or covering up tho real dimen­
sions of the poisoning, which 
some environmentalists say 
could be the biggest ecological 
catastrophe in Europe since 
the Chernobyl nuclear reactor 
catastrophe in 1986. 
"The Tisa has btrnn killed. · Nt)t even bacteria have sur­
vived," Blazic said as he 
toured Urn area along the river 
in northern Serbia. "This is a 
total catastrophe." 
"We will demand an estima­
tion of the damage and we will 
demand that the culprits for 
this tragedy be punished," he 
said. 

Homania played down the 
environmental damage. But 
people -not just aquatic life 
-are at risk because of the 
spill, said Predrag Prolic, a 
professor of chemistry and tox­
icology at Belgrade University. 
He said those with wells close to the riverbed are in danger. Birds feeding off fish could die, he said. The poi­soned water also can filter into the soil and then contaminate grass, grain, and livestock, Prolic said. 
Serbian Agriculture Minister Jovan Babovic said Sunday that after the toxic waste entered the Danube, the con­centratjon of cyanide dropped below 0.2 milligrams per liter, a non-lethal level. But the Beta news agency cited eyewitness­es who said the that the Danube was "all white with the bellies of dead fish" between the spot where it joins the Tisa and Belgrade, about 50 miles to the southeast. The fish were possibly washed down from the Tisa. 
In Bucharest, Homania, envi­ronmental official Anton Vlad suggested the spill's effects had been overstated. 
"I have the impression that it is exaggerated," Vlad told national radio. 
The cyanide spill originated in northwest Romania, near the border town of Oradea, where a dam at the Baia Mare gold mine overflowed Jan. 30, causing cyanide to pour into streams. At the mine, a cyanide solution is used to sep­arate gold ore from surround­ing roc:k. 

From there, the polluted about 55 miles north of water flowed west into the Belgrade, police were making Tisa in neighboring Hungary, sure no contaminated fish killing large numbers of fish were brought to the town's there, and then into market for sale. Restaurants in Yugoslavia. the region have removed fish 
Prolic said the peak concen­from their menus. tration of cyanide in the river Adding to the problem, the was 20 times the permissible fertile plains of Serbia's north level. are the Poisonous country's heavy metals breadbasket.
"The Tisa has been killed. 
such as lead Water from can be left Not even bacteria have the Tisa is 
traditionally

behind after survived. This is a total 
the cyanide used for irri­
catastrophe. " 
dissipates 
gation. and can also Blazic leech into the Branislav Blazic claimed the soil, he said. initial con­
Serbian environment minister
In Serbia, centration of dozens of vol-the cyanide unteers and in Romania fisherman must have wearing protective rubber been enormous if the effects gloves removed hundreds of remained so deadly in dead fish from the Tisa to bury Yugoslavia, about 300-400 them. Heaps of fish littered the miles down the river. river bank. "Had we from Yugoslavia 
Experts and officials esti­done something like this, we mate that some 80 percent of probably would have been the fish in the Tisa have died bombed," he said. since the contamination Bldzic was referring to that entered the country Friday. NATO bombing of Yugoslavia 
"Everything's dead. Cyanide last year over its actions in destroyed the entire food Kosovo -and a widespread chain," said local fisherman belief here that the West is Slobodan Krkljes. 43. "Fishing anti-Serb. The cyanide spill was my job. I don't know what adds to the ecological damage I'm going to do now." caused by NATO's bombing of 
In Becej, a town on the Tisa Serbian oil refineries. 
Please, come back to me. • • •Visit Jesus 1n Eucharistic Adoration. Monday 11 :30 p.m. to Tuesday 10:00pm in Fisher Hall Friday 12:00pm-5:00pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica Eucharistic Adoration is sponsored by Campus Ministry. l~'.~~:;,,~~-,~~;1~~2..~-~~il.l:::f •.-~9~-, for more information or to sign up for a permanent half-hour or hour slot.  




LlZ-as ­

--------~=---WWW ----• FS& z+W-g_ • --:xua . ¥---­
' .' 

O
THE page 10 BSERVER Monday, February 14, 2000 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Soud1 Dining Hall. Norre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINF.SS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryan David Rogero 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR 
Laura Petelle 
NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lurz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: BrN Huclar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................... .............................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
ohserver@dar.vin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN Om.F ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.. ..................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-531., 

George Bush Sr. and I used to have soil and intoxicating it with pesticides. New America." I sh>pped eating eggs, 
NEWS..........................................................631-5323 

one thing in common: I hated broccoli! Most animals are fed grain. However. cheese and milk and joined an estimat­
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

All of my childhood, my parents made this leads to a huge loss in productivity ed 500,000 to 2 million vegan
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 

me eat broccoli. onions. tomatoes, cau­as it takes at least 10 pounds of grain to Americans. who do not eat animals or 
observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu 

!i11ower and other produce one pound of flesh. As many animal products.
SPORTs........................................................631-4543 

icky vegetables. I Aaron countries' economies develop, their Over the past couple years. a number 
I 
observer.sports. I@nd.edu 

always had to "try Kreider meat consumption expands more quick­of people have unjustly attacked vege­
I ScENE.........................................................631-4540
rl 
a little bit." But it ly than their population. This planet tarianism in The Observer. However. I
' observer.scene. 1@nd.edu 
never worked. Think. may be able to sustainably feed 10 or changed what I eat to fit with what I
SAINT MARY'S ...................................... .......631-4324 

By contrast, I 11 billion vegetarians, but not that believe. I oppose racism, sexism, het­
Question.
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 

loved hamburgers. many meat-eaters. The Union of erosexism, poverty, environmental
PHOTO . ......................................................631-8767 
Resist. 

I would often fry Concerned Scientists has found that the destruction, the death penalty and war.
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATOllS..... ...........631-8839 

the family bacon meat industry is the second largest I am working to end the causes of abor­for breakfast. I generally disliked all the source of pollution in America after­tion and do not eat animals or animal
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

meals my mom would prepare without automobiles. products. I think my views and diet all 
Visit our Weh sire ac http://ohser11er.nd.ed11 for daily 

moat. When I startod college, I ate even You might know that veal comes from fit. I believe in justice and life.
updates ofcampus news, sports, feamres and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and brr:aking news 

more meat as I took advantage of the calves that are deprived of iron {causing I still love meat. It smells good. But I from the Associated Press. 
buffet to fill my plate to overflowing. In them to be anemic) so that their flesh love this planet, its people and its ani­theory, I always felt that vegetarians will be a certain color. But did you mals more. So when I get up, l put
SURF TO: 

were "right," but that in practice I know that chickens have most of their soymilk on my cereal or make oatmeal.
movies/music for minute fon:casts 
weather for up-to-the 

would never give up meat. beak removed so that, when crammed For other meals, I'll eat tortillas, My fall semester of my senior year in into wire cages with barely enough spaghetti. a rice dish. chocolate chip advertise for policies 
weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­

college, on a whim, I drove from room to turn around, they will not peck cookies, pizza without cheese or make a and ra1cs of prim ads 
cial campus cowrage 

Indiana to Pennsylvania to attend an to death their fellow prisoners'? Did you stir-fry. I'll even enjoy adding some environmental conforence. They had know that half of the chickens (the broccoli to it! 
archives m sr:arch for 
about The Observer 

the best food I've ever eaten at a stu­males) bred to lay eggs are killed? Over Christmas break, I learned that 
articles published after to meet the edirors and 

dent conference -and it was all vegan. Should U.S. cows be given bovine a completely apolitical high school 
staffAugust 1999 

That same semester, I was in a peace growth hormone (BGII) to produce friend read a pamphlet and within a group that "lived simply" for a month. more milk, despite the increased dis­month switched from eating meat to 
POLICIES 

For my month I hand-washed my ease it causes in cows and possible dan­being completely vegan. He showed his The Observer is rhe independenc, daily newspaper 
clothes, cut my own hair, bought very ger to consumers? Why did Europe and will power. It was one of the best published in prim and online by the smdents of che 
little, stopped eating chocolate, ate 80 Canada ban BGI I? Most Americans can Christmas presents I'd evm· gotten. University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
percent less sugar and 90 percent less eat meat only because they've never I'm urging you to withhold judgement
College. Editorial content, including advenisemenrs, is 

meat. Naturally, as soon as the month seen a factory farm 'or slaughterhouse. for just enough time to read a pamphlet
not governed by policies of the a~minisrracion ofeither 

ended, I reversed course and totally Billions of animals should not be forced and then ask yourself whether eating
insrinnion. Tht: Observer rt·serves tlw right to refuse 

indulged (especially in chocolate). to lead lives of pain. meat conflicts with your values.
advenisemenrs based on content. 

That spring semester, I starl!\d read­Vegetarianism is healthy. veganism 
Thi: news is n.:pom·d as accurately and objenively as possible. Cn~igned editorials represem rhe opinion of 

ing Francis Moore Lapp{~'s "Diet for a more so. It is a great way to avoid heart Aaron Kreider is a second year grad the majority of the Editor in Chie( Managing Edicor, 
Small Planet." While reading the book, I disease. Also, the only way to avoid con­student in sociology from Vancouver. Assistant Managing Editor and depanmem editors. 
felt it would be inconsistent to also be suming above the EPA recommended Canada. lie will eat food containing Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views 
eating meat, so I stopped. This time limit of dioxins is by being vegan. eggs, cheese or milk ifit is found in a 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 

when I finished the book, I didn't turn Dioxins accumulate in animal fat and dumpster and can be reached at 
Obst:rver. 

back to my meat-eating ways. Since milk and cause cancer and birth disor­aaron.kreider. l@nd.edu. I/is column 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

then, I've black-slid a couple of times. ders. Most Americans consume 20 appears every other Monday. 
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 

but not much. times more than the EPA limit. The views expressed in this column 
,, I Letters to che Editor muse be signed and muse include 
Ii comact information. I do not eat meat for several reasons. Vegetarians and vegans live longer. are those ofthe author and not 
" Questions regarding Oh;erver policies .1hould he direct­First, meat necessitates intense indus­After being vegetarian for over a necessarily those of The Observer. ed to Editor in Chief Michelle Krupa. trial agriculture which is mining our year, 1read John Hobbins "Diet for a 

DILBERT 

C 
" 
i
•... 
,. 
C
... 
"' 
]• • 
...• 
,. 
! 
C 
:> 0 
0 
0 
N 
Q 
THIS POLICY IS JUST IN TIME. I HAD PLANNED TO DRIVE INTO A TREE. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
IS THERE ANY­THING THERE ABOUT HANDLING POISONOUS SNAKES? 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Seeing is deceiving. It's eating that ·s believing ... 
James Thurber American humorist 

I. 
r ( 
( 

THE Monday, February 14, 2000 OBSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

UConn fans respond to student rudeness 
Students don't live up to reputation 
I am writing concnrning an article that appeared in today's edition of our local ne\-vspaper. tlw New London Day. regarding Saturday's gamt' betwPcn thl' UConn IluskiPs and tlw Fighting Irish. 
Sonw of what I rPad I found disturb­ing. 
It sePms tlw fans in tlw Notre Dame student SPction WPrt' chanting "Bastard Children, Bastard Childn•n" at LConn play,•r Khalid El ..\min when lw was shooting. 01w fan l'VPn shouted, "Does :\llah low bastard l'hildrnn'!" 
Clwnring for your team is great. Waving your arms in the air in the hopes of distracting the opposition is fine. Ilowcver. I find it hard to believo that anyone thinks that disparaging a man's l'hildrnn is any way. shape or form con­stitutns sportsmanship and fair play. 
I am trulv sadd1mt•d to discoVf~r that intolonuH'.1;, crudeness and downright mean spiritedness an! now part of the famod Notre Dame tradition. I had always thought that tlw University and H's students were a cut above the rest. 
I have lwm1 a Notre Dame sports fan sinc1i I was a child. I r,~spccted tlrn Univnrsitv lwcause it was a Church­basPd ins.titution of higlwr learning whern I thought young 1wople or high moral standards canw to IParn about lifo. th(\lllSPlvPs and otlwrs in an Pnvi­nmnwnt of lm·1• and rPspi'rl. 
Ilmv sad to discovf'r I was wrong. 
Alica A. Dodd '.',;cw l.ondon, c:01111. 
fdm1.1ri· U. 1000 

Lift the veil of lies, myths 
This is Eating Disordl'rs Awan•1wss Vv'Pek. Each year during this \V<'<'k, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campust's try to call to mind the pnivnlancli and dangPrs of 11ating disordt'rs to its studPnts. 
To many. Pating disorders arc• a great mystnry of our timn. They Iwrpl(•x medical and psy­dwlogical profossionals, as \Veil as tht! lumdrPds of' victims that b(1conw af'l1irt<'d 11ach year. Eating dis­ord1!rs am probably th,• most misunderstood and tlw most clangt>rous psychological afl1ictions that nxist. 
America is ovcr­whelm ingly lixatPd on body imagi•. \VI' sp1md $:B billion a year on losing WPight~ :\nd for thos<' vvho fail on a diPt this year. tlwrP will bo ovPr ]0,000 1ww di<•t µ!ans from which to !'hoosP 1wxt y<'ar. 

So what makPs an t>at­ing disorder'! :\1any arc quick to form an answer to this question, when tlw truth is: Tlwre is no ans\\'l'r. ;\s Anwrica grmvs inrreasingly awaro of violence toward \-\'onwn and children, vve are easily mislPd to believe that eating disor­ders must stem from childhood abusP and trau­ma. (After confiding in sonworn• once about my long-term battlPs with eating disorders, the rnsponse was, "Oh. \rnre you molested'?") 
On llw contrary. wti do nol know how Paling disorders choose their victims. There is no sig­nificant link showing that genetics or upbringing can play a crucial role in the formation of eating disorders. 
Contrary to popular belief. eating disorders am NOT nwrn vanity taken to an extreme. They are 


::.::::::::::::--__ :..._·=---·--_-:-__ -:-====--=-=--=·~·-·::-.==--=-:-:-:-=====:::-===-==-::-:.-:::..=---=..:::.-=-=-~=-=-=-=--:::.=============================================================================== 
Resurrect the FBA 
Faculty should be relieved that the Faculty Board on Athletics has not been implicated in any of the events leading to recent changes in the assignments of Michael Wadsworth, athletic director, and Father E. William Beauchamp, executive vice president. But there is also no evidence that the FBA, as consti­tuted and functioning, has or can be part of the solution to the well-publicized problems of the athletic department. 
The provost told the Faculty Senate on Wednesday that presi­dent Malloy would appoint a faculty member "from the Faculty Board of Athletics" to serve on the search committee for a new athletic director and that the preside11t intends to meet with the entire board "in due time" to explain the recently announced restructuring and changes. 
Faculty have never perceived the FBA as anything but a rub­ber stamp. FBA members have routinely been charmed, snowed or stonewalled by the AD and the executive VP. Formerly known as the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, the FBA actually controls nothing, including its own agenda, and it can­not function as a "watchdog" in any serious sense of the word. The FHA must be restructured and given autonomous investiga­tive and watchdog authority in all matters of the sort which have so seriously embarrassed Notre Dame. 
The focultv mi)mbcr of the search committee for the new ath­letic director should be elected by the faculty, not appointed by the president. This is the only way faculty can be confident that the search committee will hear a strong, independent voice familiar with Notre Dame's athletic history, well-acquainted with inter-collegiate athletics at the national level, committed to the integrity and success of our athletic programs and totally devoted to the academic and personal welfare of all athletes who represent Notre Dame in inter-collegiate competition. 
As the Faculty Senate recommended as long ago as Sept. 7, 1994, "a member elected annually from the elected faculty" should chair the FHA. There is no other way to insure the FBA can function as an independent watchdog. 
A. Edward Manier 
Professor ofphilosophy February 13, 2000 
not about food. They are not about popularity. Tlrny arc not about selfishness or self-promotion. Rather. they seem to grow under a severe lack of self-acceptance born of a diffcrnnt source, then nmbcdded so deeply that it leads its victims a terrifying path of self-destruction. 
Subconsciously, its victims are taking the most extreme measures possible to disappt>ar and to complc1tely melt away from themselves and from the society that places the pressure on young women to be virtually flavvless. It's no wonder 
that eating disorders have the highest fatali­ty rate of any other 
psychological disor­lfor. 
Wn cannot expnct that eating disorders will eventually yield to 
medical science. Our society encourages us to believe that anv ill­ness can be remedied with a series of pills. ., ~ating disorders require 1w.~nuch more time and atten­. · 1/tmn than that. .e,<~ This week. I hope that all stu­
-----dents will take the time to recognize the tragic impact of eating disorders. It is a game in which the participants are forced to play unwillingly, and the stakes are incredibly high ­for victims are forced to barain with their own mortality. It is my hope that one day we will be able to lift the veils of lies and stereotypes that cover the perceived "myth" of eating disorders. 
Lauren Jiloty Sophomore LeMans Hall February 13, 2000 

Fans need to echo Doherty's dignity 
Connecticut newspapers are full of articles about the Huskies losing to the Fighting Irish for the second time this season. In particular, the rushing of the court by the student body has come under attack. The same thing hap­pened when UConn lost at Syracuse. Huskies players are frustrated that opposing student bodies are celebrating like they just won the National Championship instead of a regular­season game against the defending national champions. 
SO WHAT! 
I rushed the court when the Irish knocked off UCLA and its 88-game winning streak in 1974. Watch ESPN Sportcenter today and see the Tennessee student body doing the same thing af'ter knocking off conference rival Florida. That is part of the tradition of a great colle­giate sports program and should be applauded. 
However, I cannot applaud the student body of Notre Dame. Chants against opposing play­ers have always been a part of the game, but personal attacks are a sign of poor character. "We are ND" and "Here Come the Irish" spark spine-tingling pride for me in my Alma Mater. Cries of "Bastard Children" against opposing players and poor treatment of visiting fans, however. make me wonder how Notre Dame can claim to be a Christian university, never mind a leader. 
Congratulations to Coach Doherty and the entire basketball team on its rise back to national prominence. I just hopn the student body and the fans will join them with class and dignity. 
Will Morrissey, '76 
New London, Conn. February 13, 2000 

'I 
f 

-·--EDCWWW U 

I I ' 

cene 

page 12 Monday, February 14, 2000 

I 
• 
l 



Fearlessly in love, childhood playmates John Hatzenbuehler and Stephanie Bernt prepare for 1 
By MIKE VANEGAS love is a lost cause. Others, including Idaho following their freshman year, Scene Editor Alice and Ervin. prove otherwise. where their lives would soon change In fact, such a foundation could be forever. One night, John felt a chem­found 20 years ago in a sandbox in istry with his long-time friend that

lice Cukrowicz, a Grab-n­
Pocatello, Idaho, where a little boy may or may not have been thereGo worker in South Dining named John Hatzenbuehler met a lit­before. But at that moment, he
Hall, has been married tu tle girl named Stephanie Bernt. This is decided Stephanie was his destiny.
Ervin Cukrowicz for 60 
their story. She was his one true thing. And heyears and two months. 
The two infants played with each went after her.

Today, after experiencing both the 
other in the sandbox until they "This is how he pursued me," saidhighs and lows of married life, includ­learned how to play basketball. Stephanie with a giddy smile on hering Ervin's battle with a stroke five Though the two kids lived in different face. "He calls me up that night; I
years ago, the couple celebrates its parts of town and went to different had gone on a date with somebody
60th Valentine's Day 

schools until high else. I come home and at one o'clock
as husband and wife. 

school, they saw in the morning, there was this mes­
And they couldn't be "If you get through a long­
each other every day. sage on my phone to call him.
happier, according to 

distance relationship, you 
They grew up as "So I called him thinking it was no
Alice, for they've 

been able to capture develop an unbelievable friends, and even big deal, and he proceeds to tell me throughout their how he feels about me, and I'm
the essence of happi­ellzotional attatchment. " 
ness throughout teenage years when thinking, 'Oh my God.' And then he most kids abandon comes down, like at 3 in the morn­
their years together. 

John Hatzenbuehler their childhood ing, and he kissed me. That was it.
Alice, the sparkling 

friends as they strug-There was no talking, there was no
deity she is, knows 
gle through adoles­date, there was nothing."
exactly what that 

cence, they remained It was the act of a young romantic
essence is: "You have 

friends. stripping himself of any protectiveto have trust, and you have to have 
In August of 1996, skin and letting hislove," she said. "You know, if you 
though, John, who is feelings fall to the
don't trust them, then you have prob­"He's my best friend by 
now a resident advisor ground. It was a
lems. And be thoughtful of one anoth­far, and that doesn't even
in Morrissey Hall, simple deed, and
er. Instead of always wanting some­
embarked on a jour­decribe it, really. " both John and
one to do it for you, do it for them." 

ney into the Notre Stephanie recognizeIn the game of love, such virtues an~ Dame vacuum. this in retrospect.
common pieces of the puzzle that is Stephanie Bernt
Stephanie took a simi-"There didn't
the foundation of a lasting relation­
1ar journey, but her need to be all that
ship. But the simple fact remains: Can 
destination was differ-other stuff," saidthis foundation really be discovered'? 
ent. In the end, they were apart. John of the kiss that sealed his
There are some people out there who 
But they both returned home to future. Stephanie finished his sen­
probably feel the journey to find true tence: "Because we had known each other for 19 years." 
A few months later, John and Stephanie had to say their good-byes again. Their long-distance relation­ship was in its initial stages, but the couple would learn to live apart. and in an ironic twist of a lover's fate, the distance would eventually bring them closer together. 
But the couple still recognizes the difficulties in maintaining this type of relationship. 
"The only reason [the long-dis­tance relationship! worked is because we had 20 years under our belts before we started," said Stephanie. After John questioned how their relationship did work out, Stephanie replied: "It worked out because it was meant to be." 
I 
It was then that fate finally became a recognizable element in the J ohn-Stcphanie story. And at that point, John realized just how far their relationship had developed. 
"If you get through a long-distance [relationship] you develop an unbe­
t 

! 
lievable emotional attachment that you can't get every day. It's a differ­ent sort of thing," he said. "Every 
day you can have physical connec­tion hut sometimes that gets in the
1f way. But this is all emotional. You have to be so trusting. You have to go a level above the normal n~la­tionship." Throughout the past few years, the couple has never gone more than a month without seeing each other. If it's not fall, winter, spring or sum­mer break, it's a weekend trip to South Bend or Utah (where Stephanie graduated college). That is, until this past summer, when John involved himself in a summer service project in Cleveland and Stephanie finished her degree at the University of Utah. For the first time since that fateful kiss at 3 a.m., the


. 


• 
----------~-------------------------------------1 


marriage after a life of being best friends, long-distance lovers and destiny's love children 
' I I •
.. 
' . ' 

cene 

Monday, February 14, 2000 page 13 




two found themselves apart for three 
months. 
Then one day. Stephanie broke up with her man. The distance they had worked so well with for two years was tearing Stephanie apart inside, and she couldn't handle it. But as the doom of failure was in sight, John had an epiphany of love. 
"It was after that point that I just couldn't handle that idea of breaking up," he said. " So I started entertain­ing ideas about getting engaged. One day, it just hit me. I really didn't con­sider being married right away, it's just engagement is a different level that you need for commitment. We basically needed this commitment from each other to basically survive ... that sumnrnr. And then I got home for a month at the end of the summer and things just clicked. It was the best decision we ever made." 
July 3, 1999, was the day John and Stephanie made the biggest commit­ment of their lives. And it will be July 3, 2000, when John and Stephanie will close the deal, say their "I do's and become husband and wife. But they insist this was not done on pur­pose. It was fate. 
Now they havt~ the daunting prospect of being the llatzcnbuehlers, a married couple. This, from a couple who lighthearted­ly made a promise to get married if both wnrn single at 28, a la "My Best Friond's Wedding." 
But John and Stephanie acknowl­edge the impossibility of having the perfect relationship, especially know­ing the way their relationship has d«welopcd so far. 
"Our relationship has been nothing but battles, not with each other. rwvt~r with each other, but battles surrounding our relationship," said Stephanie. "Distance is just one ele­nrnnt. Distance really sucks: to put it just how it is, it really sucks. 
"It would have been easy to find some Joo-Schmoe," she added. "But the connection I have with him, he is not 
MARY CALASH/fhe Observer 

me to be a person." 
one sees them

just this one guy that "Thats the key: Jfyou 
together, one sees

I find physically 
think you can meet some­two extremely

attractive and that I 
body better, then you 're in attractive people

lhavcl this rHally 
who are at peace

great relationship the wrong relationship,, 
with being together.

with. It's more than 
"I can't think of

that. Number one, 
John Hatzenbuehler anybody better,"

lrn's my best friend by 
far, and that doesn't 
even describe it, real­
..
I
y. 

/\t this point, Stephanie turns to John: "You're more than a best friPnd, you're sort of a savior in some cPrtain tPrms, and a guide, and sonwbody \Vho ... ,viii always do the right thing." 
/\nd despite the fact that Stephanie and John love each other, they insist they are not a couple of love-sick kids. They understand what they am doing. /\nd tlrny arcn't flinching a bit concerning their future together. 
"I think the key to success [in mar­riage I is being best friends," said Stephanie. "I may do all these fun things, and who do I want to do them with? That's easy, [him]. That's the good thing about distance. We've learned to live apart [while] needing each other at the same time. So, when we're together, we're not in each other's face, and lovey-dovey. We know how to be Stephanie and 
/\nd together, we're just cool." 
So are they the perfect fit for each other? They certainly seem to think so, and when some­
said John. "That's the key: If you think you can meet some­
body better, then you 're in the wrong relationship. 

"When all the lust and
But I don't think I could to be with [him]. find. or want to find, any­hot steaminess is gone, I no matter what," body better. She's every­said Stephanie in a
still always want to be
thing I ever hoped to serious tone.
with him, no matter
want." John had similar 
"lie makes me the best what ... feelings. "If there's person I could ever think any one person I to be, and that's why it want to be with my
Stephanie Bernt 
was meant to be as well," entire life, it's 
.. 

And John as usual, finishes Stephanie's thought: "It's not like I couldn't live without her. I could still function, but it wouldn't be half as good if I didn't have someone to do it with." 
Maybe, if health is on their sides, the Hatzenbuehler family-to-be like the Cukrowicz family. will celebrate a 60th wedding anniversary. Sixty years down the road, the lives they've shared for more than 20 years already will most likely be just as strongly intertwined. 
"When all the lust and the hot 
steaminess is gone, 
I still always want 
said Stephanie. "I always had this vision of who I wanted to be and how I was going to get there, and he just made that pos­sible for me." 
Stephanie added: "AH my weakness­es, he makes them strengths. It's sort of a completion. John makes me whole by himself, so that I am com­plete and he is complete and we just roll together. I don't have things that I'm missing that he has to be there for 
her," he said. 

But the clincher in this perfect love story is the follow­ing proclamation by Stephanie to John, which put their entire relation­ship, from the youthful friendship of yesteryear to the loving partnership of today, into a new light. 
"You've sort of put a new spin on life partner," she said to her beau. "That's why I love you, because you are my life partner." 
I \ l I ' ' 




i'. 
1{ 
\: 
I 
I 
iJ. 
r, I, I I ,<
I 
I I 
f 
I 
tj 
i' 
I 
h ~ 
i;f' ~ ' 
I ~ .­
I {t 
tj \¢'" 1, 
i'f
' ( 
-~ 
' { 
~ t 
d ~ 
) 
~ I,; 
l_l 
)f 
,: r,. 
.-.~
., 
" 

ne 

page 14 Monday, February 14, 2000 
================================================================================================== 
HEALTH COLUMN 

Defining eating disorders 
Editor's note: In conjunction with the University Counseling Center. Scene presents a series offwe columns this week that will highlight eating con­cerns in recognition ofNational Eating Disorders Awareness Week. 
It is normal to \-Vant to be attractive. It is not nor­mal to let your appearance and eating behaviors control your lifo. Joan Ebbit, author of "The Eating Illness Workbook," states that "eating disorders exist when a person's use of food and rituals and practices surrounding the use of food cause increas­Rita J. Donley ingly serious problems in 
and Dominic 0. 
the major areas of the 

Vachon
person's life." l\fajor areas include: emotional 

University
health, spirituality, finan­

Counseling
ciaVlegal, physical health, 

Center
social life, job/work/acad­emics and family life. The media has highlighted anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa, but it is important to focus on a much broader range of eating and body image concerns as well. In addi­
tion to anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa. 
individuals struggle with eating concerns 
that do not meet the full criteria for an 
eating disorder diagnosis, obesity, 
binge eating disorder, and body dysmorphic disorder as well. 
Professionals use the "Diagnostic and Statistics Manual of Mental Disorders" (DSM-IV) to help them assess and diagnose eating disor­ders. 
Anorexia Ncrvosa is characterized by a refusal to maintain a minimally normal body weight (e.g. weight loss leading to maintenance of body weight less than 85 ·per­cent of that expected); an intense fear of gaining weight or becoming fat, even though under­weight; an undue influ­ence of body weight or shape on self-evaluation; and for women, the absence of at least three consecutive menstrual cycles. 

Bulimia Nervosa is char­actC'rized by rncurrent episodes of binge eating (e.g. eating an amount of food that is definitely larger than most peo­ple would cat during a two hour period and under similar circum­stances and a sense of lack of control over eating during this time period); the use of recurrent inappropriate compensato­ry behaviors in ord<!r to prevent weight gain including self-induced vomiting, misuse of laxa­tives'diurctics'cncmas/medications, and/or exces­sive exercise; both binge eating and inappropriate compensatory behaviors occur. on average, at least twice a week for thref~ months; and self-eval­uation is unduly intlucncml by body shape and weight. 
Some individuals \Viii report many symptoms of an eating disorder but do not meet the diagnostic criteria. These individuals can benefit from inter­vention and treatment as \veil. 
Simple obesity is considered a general medical condition, but does not appear in DSM-IV because it has not bmm established that it is consistently associated \Vith a psychological or behavioral syn­drome. Hmvcver, two of thn biggest concerns for obese individuals are the fact that they develop dis­eases at a higher rate than the rest of tht~ popula­tion and face discrimination, prejudice and ridicule in t1ie world by others. Those consequences may re5ult in individuals seeking psychological, nutri­tional and medical assistance. Obesity is defined as individuals who are at least 20 percent overweight with the following distinctions: mild obesity (20-30 percent), moderate obesity (30-60 percm1t), severe obesity { 60-100 percent), morbid obesity ll00-150 percent) and super morbid obesity (250 percent or 
_ more). Some obese individuals engage in binge eating behaviors, and others do not. 
On Frontlinc's documentary. "Fat," Dr. lludolph Leibel from Columbia University stated, "From mice and rats, we have learned that there are sin­gle genes that can cause profound obesity, and we have found in everv instance that there is a corre­sponding gene in humans. If we went out on the street right now, and Ishowed you a group of adults ranging from 4 1/2 feet to 6 1/2 feet, you would make no comment about this. It's expected. We all expect to see wide variations in height. We accept that this is due to very strong genetic influ­ences. My perception of this is that there are equally potent genetic influences on body weight as there are on height. But the population, because of our lack of understanding of all the mecha­nisms, simply has not come to accept this yet." 
Binge Eating Disorder is proposed as a new diagnostic category in the research literature. In contrast to Bulimia Nervosa, in which inappropri­ate compensatory mechanisms are employed to counteract the effect.;, of the binges, no such 
behavior is regularly employed to compen­sate for binge eating and binge eating occurs for a longer period oftime (e.g. six months or more) than is suggest­ed in the diagnostic criteria for Bulimia Nervosa. Many individu­als involved with the 12-step organization, Overeaters Anonymous, refer to them­selves as compulsive 
overeaters and this diagnos­tic category would be con• sistcnt with the ways they 
"­
would describe their eat­ing behaviors. 
Body Dysmorphic 
Disorder is defined as a 
preoccupation with an 
imagined defect in 
appearance. If a slight 
physical abnormality is 
pnisent. the person's con­
cern is markedly exces­sive. The preoccupation causes clinically significant 
distress or impairment in 
social, occupational or 
other important areas of 
functioning. In 1998, USA 
Today published an article 
entitled, "Bodybuilders' fret 
'flip side' of anorexia." In this 
article Smith states. "A condition 
identified as 'muscle dysmorphia' 
is a preoccupation with muscle 
development so powerful that those 
who suffer from it often give up their 
jobs so they can spend all day at the gy1n. 
Many individuals had not eaten in restau• rants for years because they could not control the precise carbohydrate and protein content of their food. People with this condition frequently take steroids to build bigger muscles, but they are still disappointed with their bodies." 
Preliminary evidence suggests that Body Dysmorphic Disorder is diagnosed with equal fre­quency in men and women. The other eating con­ditions mentioned affect both men and women, but women much morn frequently. 
No one wakes up one morning and says, "Gee, I want to have an eating disorder." Many individuals begin dieting, a widely accepted behavior in our society. The problem is that for some people, their dieting begins a cycle of feeling out ofcontrol with food, obsessing about weight and appearance and feeling like this struggle defines who they are. Tomorrow's article \\ill discuss the treatment options available to individuals with eating disor­ders. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fo){ 

Leonardo Dicaprio's new film "The Beach" has upset environ• mentalists in Thailand, where the film was shot. 
DiCaprio's new film 'Beach' causes a stir 
BANGKOK 

In an apparent attempt to appease environmentalists angry over its film "The Beach," 20th Century Fox plans to donate revenue generated from the first showing to Thailand's national parks, according to a published report. 
The donation will go to the Hoyal Thai Forestry Department, the Nation reported Saturday. . 
The movie, based on Alex Garland's best-selling novel and starring Leonardo DiCaprio, tells the story of a backpacker whose search for a paradise island turns into savagery. It premiered last week and comes to Thai theaters March 10. 
Activists and local residents brought the movie's maker to court for allegedly damaging a beach in the Phi Phi Leh National Park in southern Thailand by altering the beachfront and removing vegetation. 
Activists have already campaigned to ban the movie and are asking movie-goers in Thailand not to see it. 
VIENNA 

Singer-songwriter Lou R(ied has canceled a planned perfor­mance in Vienna to protest the inclusion of Joerg Haider's right-wing Freedom Party in Austria's new government. 
"When people elect someone like him, it is their right to do so," Reed told Austrian state radio, in comments published by the daily Standard Sunday. "But that doesn't mean that other people have to voluntarily choose to be nnar him." 
The new government, inaugurated Feb. 4. has split the country bccaust~ of the inclusion of Haider's party. 
The Freedom Party. which seized on fears that immigration and European Union expansion would cost Austrians jobs, fin­ished second in tho balloting with 27 percent of the vote. 
Haider holds no position in the new government, but insttrnd remains in office as the governor of the province of Carinthia, in the south of the country. 
Reed is currently in Hamburg for the premiere of the Edgar Allen Poe musical "POEtry," for which he wrote the libretto. 
LONDON 

Rock star David Bowie and his wife Iman said Sunday that they are expecting their first child in August. 
Bowie and Iman, a Somali fashion model, married in 1992. 
"It's been a long and patient wait for our baby, but both Iman and I wanted the circumstances to be absolutely right, and didn't want to find ourselves working flat out during the first couple of years of the baby's life," Bowie said. 
"This is a wonderful time in both our lives." 
Bowie also has a grown son -first known as Zowie but later as Joey -from his previous marriage. Iman had a daughter. Zulekha, from her marriage to professional basket­ball star Spencer Haywood. 
BEVERLY HILLS Actor Christian Slater has married girlfriend Ryan Haddon. The ceremony took place Saturday night at the Four 
Seasons Hotel with about 150 guests, according to a publi­cist's statement. 
The marriage is the first for Slater, 30, and Haddon, 28. They have a child, Jaden Christopher, who was born last April and will accompany his parents on their honeymoon in Hawaii. 
Slater has appeared in such movies as "Interview With the Vampire," "The Name of the Rose," and "True Romance." 

.. 

Monday, February 14, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
PGA TOUR 
Woods battles back, falls to Mickelson at Buick Invite 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

The Streak ended in style. 
Tiger Woods defied the odds once again by erasing a seven-stroke lead in just seven holes. Just as quickly. he fell victim to his own mistakes and a sudden rnvival by Phil Mickdson. 
Th<' longest PG;\ Tour winning strf'ak in 52 years stoppPd Sunday in the Buick Invitational. wlrnr<' Mickelson \Von roi-tlw lirst time in 18 months and lert Bvron Nnlson's record run of 11 stntight victories as the standard. 
"At least I made it intnn~sting for Phil." \IVoods said. 
In a final round packed with as much drama as a major champi­onship. Mickelson recovernd from two double bogeys with back-to­bark birdies that finally gave him a lead too large even for Woods to ovrrcomP. 
l\lickelson dosed with a 2-under 70 for a four-stroke victory over Woods and Shigeki Maruyama. the 14th of' his rarner. lie finished at 18-under 270 and earned a career­high $540,000. 
"I have a lot of conlidencP after this week," Mickelson said. "I tack­led the best in the world and I 
won.·· And so, tlw guy who starb)d The Stn~ak finally Bf}dPd it six months 
later. Mickelson was the first victim in a streak that began with \Voods' one­
stroke  victory  in  the  NEC  
Invitational in August.  
This  time, Woods  was seven  

strokes down \.Vith 12 holes to play. Six holes later, Woods pointed at the cup as his ball n,l! to the bottom !'or a 5-foot birdie on the 13th hole that gavf~ him a share of tlw lead at 15-undPr. 
Shock<•d at his sudden collapsP on a course ·where hi~ grew up, Mickelson J'inallv answered. After pushing his tee shot under a euca­lyptus tree and having to lay up, he hit a 116-yard wedge to 2 feet for birdie to regain the lead. 
And then Woods finally blinked. 
\Vith only a 9-iron in his hand, he was 25 feet right of his target. above the hole on No. 14, blew his putt 6 foct by and missed it coming back -a three-putt bogey, after taking only 15 putts on his first 13 holes. 
Mickelson, watching from the fairway as Woods made his first bogey in 44 holes, dropped a wedge into 6 feet for birdie and a three­stroke lead. 
\IVoods bogeyed the next hole from the bunker. a smile crept over his !'ace. 
"It means I came in second." Woods said, who joins Ben Hogan in 1948 with six-tournament winning streaks. 
And it means Nelson. who set his 
remarkable record in 1945. can rest 
easy -for now. 
It was a heart-pumping end to a streak that captured the imagina­tion of' the entire tour. And it did nothing to diminish the fact that Woods' dominance of' his generation may be greater than any other play­er's in golf history. 
"It's disappointing l didn't win," Woods said. "I just wasn't hitting it good enough to give myself a viable chance down the stretch, and it finally caught up with me. To even be under par ... was kind of' a mira­cle." 
Even though I put myself in a good spot, I wasn't really playing well enough to win. To even be 
I
under par ... was kind of a miracle." 

\Voods hit only 10 greens in regu­l lation and missed eight fairways. but he still scraped together a 68, 
j
and he still gave Mickelson a major scare. 
Maruyama had a 72 in his quest to become the first Japanese player since lsao Aoki in 1983 to win on the PGA. Tour. 
Mickelson, who was tied for 134th in final-round scoring last year and only two weeks ago blew a final­round lead in Phoenix with a 40. showed the kind of courage that may help him win his first major championship down the road. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m Al classifieds must he prepaid. 
.,,..

CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content with our issuing refunds. 
NOTICES Are you a music love who'd like to  South Bend based company is presently in search of a dynamic accomplished IT professional/Web guru for the development of its new  Seeking female roommate for 00-01 school yr. Campusview Apts. Approx. $250/mo. + utilities. Email lwangens@nd.edu  Available Summer '00 and '00-'01 4-student rental houses ESecurity System, Air Conditioned, Laundry .. Dave  I'm blue but if I were green I would die if I were green I would die. HeyC,  Beth-Happy Valentine's Day. The last three years have been great. Looking forward to a lot  
pick up a few eztra bucks this sum­mer? Pop in to Orbit Music at 1841 So.  Internet business team. Successful candidate possesses advanced computer skills and has an exten­ DOG·SITTER: Love dogs? Pis. Help me! Need a sitter for my new puppy ­esp. JPW, 1-2 aftrns/wk  291-2209 3-4 bdrm new home, f/p cathedral  Let's hear it for the midnight b.c.  more. Love ya-Mike  
Bend Ave and pick up an applica­ sive knowledge of all aspects of  and Wed. nites. Call Megan @ 246­ ceilings, 3 baths, 2-car garage, fam­ 
tion. Find out more about all three  web management. graphic/techni­ 0295  ily room.  I dislike SC  
of our stores at www.orbitrecords.com  cal design and programming. Forward resume to: Human Resource Dept. PO Box 1007 Notre Dame. IN 46556  Wanted 50 serious people to lose weight, safely and effectively. Natural/guarenteed  $1400/mo. 616-683-5038 219-340-1844 219-232-4527  Is that OK?  Daddy, Be my Valentine. Moo-ha  
LOST AND FOUND ANNABELLE-YOU LEFT YOUR GLASSES AND CONTACT CASE  In search of Web guru for South Bend based company. Creative free thinker, who can do it all with the  www.lose-now.com or 1-800-883-1 569  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bedroom, 1-bath, newly refinished wood floors, $1200/month. 2) 4-bedroom, 1­ Pittsburgh is not good This is not a sign It is an informational deliverer.  Dear Brian, Happy Valentine's Day sweetheart. I love you. -Your secret admirer  
IN MY CAR WHEN I GAVE YOU A RIDE TO ND FROM THE TRAIN  Web. Forward resume to: Resonnel Dept. PO Box 185 Osceola. IN  FOR RENT  bath, 1000/month. 3) 3-bedroom, 1· bath, $700. We will work with you  Ignore this  
STATION MONDAY. CALL 272­9225. Lost: Cincinatti Reds hat, left at JACC during LNO. HUGE senti­ 46561 Childcare needed.  2-6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272­6306 ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  on any changes you may want made to the houses including such things as pool tables, privacy fences, and painting. Call Bill 675­0776  Thank you Frasso, How is your arm  SR· Will you been my Valentine? Just for an hour! -CG  
mental value.  reward if found.  Call  1 or 2 students  for 20 hrs per week  AND CLOSE  Tool  
Scott 4-1304  between 9 and 5 to watch 2 yr old & newborn for ND prof in our  http:/lmmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com  FOR SALE  Frasso  
Lost ­ 2/07/2000 Administration  home.Experience and transporta­tion required.Some flexibility in  232-2595  New Phone Card  DD, drinks one lager, orders cab, strands car at party  pq hey, at least we're not fighting this  
Building or Lot A-9 area. 1/2 Karat Tear-drop wedding dia­ scheduling possible. Please call Rose at 289-3856.  Available ·00-01. 4-6 Student Rental House ... 2 1/2  886 mins. $20 258-4805 or 243-9361  tool  year mk  
mond ring. Size 5 Priceless memories REWARD!  baths: lots of space; Parking Lot and Laundry... Dave 291-2209  1991 Honda accord EX  VALENTINES  
631-4349 or 616-687-8123 If anyone has picked up an old gray  South Bend based company seeks talented graphic designer.Advanced PhotoShop and other design software skills required.Send resume.salary  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE 2773097  88,000 miles $6000 219-273-8483 Compaq Computer has CD burner and printer  HAC Happy V-Day. Krup  Connolly, Still, no idea. Have a great Valentine's Day. Krupa  (  
knit glove I would actually pay to  requirements and portfolio samples  $1300/OBO  
get ii back, that is how important it  to:Personnel Dept. PO Box 30  B'NB REGISTRY  Mike at 247-1196  
is to me. Also, if anyone has found or has seen a skateboard with a  Notre Dame, IN 46556  219-291-7153  Happy Valentine's Day Sarah  Happy Valentine's Day Shir1ey  
blank wood colored bottom and  WEB DESIGNER NEEDED  Love, Jamie  
white wheels. I offer a reward for  National Publication has opening  3 bdrm. home, 1-1/2 bath,  GREAT STUDENT CAR.  
that as well. For an information, call Gavin at 4-1297 Lost ­silver. panoramic Minolta camera possibly left in Michiana  for designer to help improve and maintain existing sites. 277-0033 ­www.nkn.com ATTENTION SOUND ENGINEERS  tri-level, F/R w/F/P. Fenced back­yard. 2-car garage. Gas heat, A/C, across from park. $1,500/mo. Grad. students preferred. 616-683-5038 or 232-4527.  '88 FORD FESTIVA, BLACK, 2­DR., GOOD CONDITION. MANUAL TRANS., 56K, AM/FM CASSETTE. FACULTY OWNED W/SERVICE RECORDS.  Bill Mc., Thinking about you today and every day. Wish you were here.  Happy Birthday and Valentine's Day Katie  
cab on Saturday night. Any info call Mary Ellen 284-5451  Local Sound Company has open­ings for designer to help improve and maintain existing sites. 277­0032  Mobile: 219-340-1844. 3 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME.  $750. 237-1981.  "Ooh I love a rainy night ... •  Chuk Happy Valentine's Day Love  
LOST: A ONCE-GREAT DIV 1 FOOTBALL TEAM FROM THE MID-WEST. REWARD IF FOUND WANTED Professor needs 3 hrs. help on small farm 1 mile from N.D.  www.thesoundcompany.com GRAPHIC LAYOUT International racing publication has opening for computer graphics lay­out person. Looking for fresh excit­ing designs to improve established magazine. Flexible hours. 277-0033  $400/MO INCL. UTILITIES EXCEPT PHONE. NON-SMOKERS. WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM­PUS. 288-4241. 6 BEDRM. '00-'01  for sale couch with hideabed good condition $150 includes throw and extra pillows. Will deliver phone 282-2228 PERSONAL www.thecommentator.com  HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO THE SWEET LADIES IN OGRAB & GOIN SDH Happy Valentine's Day to Brooke and Kathleen. the best class offi­cers these guys could ever ask for!  Pete The A-Team are celebrating Valentine's Day in style Happy Valentine's Day to the boys  
277-5328 Email Ford.1@nd.edu  Editor/proof reader needed to work with writers for national publication. Flexible hours. Call 277-0033  $1200/mo. 273-0482  Morrissey boys know how to party  "Love," Chad and Peter  at 222 St. Louis Street. Love always, your girls  

I.
-.... 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday,'February 14, 2000 
Lt 
l !
;, <
r 
J 
J l 
i 
l 
I 
) 
j 
i 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Seniors lead in Indianapolis 
with a clearing height of 5-On the men's side of the By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
feet. 9 3/4 inches. pole vault competition, Assisranr Sporrs Editor 
Engelhardt has come out sophomore Josh Heck 
on top in every meet this cleared 15-3 to earn fifth 
Seniors Jen Engelhardt season, with an opportuni­place. and Chris Cochran contin­ty to make it five straight at Sophomore Derek Dyer ued their string of first­the Big East threw 48-10 in the shot put place finishes with individ­Championships. Her first -a throw that was good ual victories in the Cannon three years of collegiate enough for seventh place. IV Classic competi­Classmate Quill Redwine this week-tion. she took eighth place in the 
end in "My time wasn't really j u s t men's triple jump with a missed a leap of 47-9 1/4.
I n d i a -where I wanted it to be. 
napolis. Big East Sophomore Dore Cochran But in retrospect, that's indoors De Bartolo was the lone won the not important. It was a title. Irish member to compete 200-meter winding in multiple events.
good tune-up for 
dash in a up in sec­De Bartolo was 10th in the time of the Big East." ond every shot put with a throw of 
21.30 sec­season. 43-5, and 11th in the 
o n d s . Another weight throw with a hurl of
Chris Cochran 
Racing on N o tr e 49-2 1/4. 
senior sprinter

a 200-Dame "Basically the meet was a m e t e r senior, tune-up for the Big East," banked M a t t Cochran said, "And it gave track, he only missed an Thom-pson. threw his way everyone a chance to get NCAA qualifying time by to second place in the another meet under their five-hundredths of a sc<> weight throw with a hurl of belts." 
ond. 57 feet. 3 1/2 inches. 
"My time wasn't really Freshman Jamie where I wanted it to be." Volkmer plar,ed third in the Cochran said, "But in ret­pole vault. leaping l 0-11 rospect. that's not impor­3/4 despite poor conditions. tant. It was a good tune-up "It was actually kind of 
for the Big East." funny," Volkmer said. "We 
With the Big East were vaulting into the cor­Championships coming up ner. and they didn't have Saturday and Sunday. much of a warm-up space Cochran is seeking an indi­for us. So it was kind of a vidual title for the second learning experience." year in a row. Last year, he Volk111cr has consistently won the 400-meter dash. vaulted around 11 feet for 
Engelhardt, a two-time the Irish, setting a new All-American. won her school record in the event fourth straight high jump in her first r,ollegiate meet. 
LEADERS 
Full-time college student or graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post offer mental and physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com 

NBA ALL-STAR GAME 
Duncan, Garnett lead 
West over East 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND, Calif. 
A couple nifty dunks from Vince Carter. a little Showtime from the Lakers. a few bank shots from Tim Duncan and plenty of crisp passes from Jason Kidd. 
Everybody did what they do best Sunday in the NBA All-Star game, with no single player stealing the spotlight. 
In a way, it was a fitting first All­Star game of the post-Jordan era: Nobody is sure who the next super­star is, and none burst forward in this game. 
Behind 24 points apiece from Duncan and Kevin Garnett, 22 from Shaquille O'Neal and 14 assists from Kidd, the West defeated the East 
137-126 Sunday in the 49th version of the league's showcase event. 
"The league is like a stock," Garnett said. '."You've got to give it a chance to recover from the lockout, and it's going to keep rising and ris­ing." 
In this case. that meant appreciat­ing the current players for their own special skills instead of lamenting the lack of a single selfish showman. 
Carter started things off with a dunk worthy of a contest. Duncan and O'Neal played like MVPs, which they were, and Karl Malone got as little involved as possible -as he wished. 
"What was the favorite part?" O'Neal asked rhetorically. "Watching Vince dunk, of course. I've never seen anybody who dunks like that." 
\

ATRIA SALON ACADEMY'' 
l\tJ:ONDAYS ONLY ALL SERVICES PERFORlVIED BY STYLISTS IN TRAINING 
Valid only -with the following Junior Stylists: Angie, Connie, Vicki, andJennifer 
Hilites and Haircut  $15.00  
Penn and Haircut  -----------~---------­ $15.00  
Colour and Haircut  ---------------------­ $15.00  
289-5080  

'1357 N. lronvvood Dr_ on the corner o-r Edison "1 mile east of Notre Darne and Saint Mary's 
Certain restrictions apply. All services are performed by our Junior Stylists in training. Please mention this ad when booking appointments. 
SUB and U93 welcom____,L...---..l! ertical Horizontroke an to the Stepan Center on Opening act Wednesdav, Marc 1~adlord lickets on sale IOd8J5~\ e:oo am at the La ·Boe Box Office 831-Bl 8 $14 With ND/SMC/HC student i. . $16 tor general public www.nd.edu/~sub +4 ...~-:::~,'W,---•~""'-, ~ -.'.'ll>'.·'··· _..,,. •, .;.;;..::•..:.«.~.~::••,.  

.• ,---j ,

' . I • I ' f J-t / f • • / • I
. 
I • ,• r • J 

Monday, February 14, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

H 1.l'. · IIJ, B'l. -IO ' . fl I ­
ST 








• 
entmes 





Love Mom, Dad & Betsy 


,t I \ , I I 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 14, 2000 
IRISH INSIGHT 

Connecticut's Calhoun needs to stop complaining 



Conn1~ctirut head coach Jim Calhoun intends to send a letter to Notre Dame officials for the inapropriat<• lrcatnwnt of' his star player Khalid El­Amin. 
Appan•ntly Calhoun took notirP of tlrn Notrn Danw student S(~ction's "batard children., chant which was dirnctcd at El-Amin, a Muslim who has fathered two children with two different women. 
And lw madr a point to let the fans kno\\' he was dis­pleascd. After a timeout with ni,w minutes left in the first half. Calhoun stepped out of his team's huddlo and gave an icy stan~ at the student section and then complained to Notre Dame officials seated at the scorer's table. 
"Schools have to put an end to that," Calhoun told the New 
"If they want to say 'Calhoun sucks,' that's fine. I did today. But the othrr stuff, that's uncalled for. Someone has to say to them that you just can't say those kinds of things. I'm appalled that anyone will allow that. It's so inappropriate. There's no place for that in sport. ... It' I 'vvent out there and said 'Jesus,' everybody here would say blasphemy. I'm writing a letter to the University just to let them know I don't appreciate that." 

It's a good thing he didn't see the "El-Amin 4:20" sign -a sarcastic reference to the John 3:16 signs held up at sporting events and El-Amin's run in with the law last year for marijuana possession. Or he might have been offended by the "Troy Murphy: All American. Jake Voskuhl: Fairy Princess" ban­ner. 
But if Calhoun wants to write a letter to Notre Dame officials for bashing El-Amin, head coach Matt Doherty should write a letter to Calhoun for letting his players beat up Murphy. That could have been considered assault and the blood on his jersey was an indication. 
But it seems Jim Calhoun likes to complain. And he's very good at it. 
His hands must be tired after waving them at the officials all afternoon in disgust. And he's probably hoarse from yelling at them throughout the game. 
But I guess he saved his vocal cords enough to make subtle comments about the officiating after the game. 
Ile was most displeased with the 28-3 discrepan­cy in foul shots, joking that Notre Dame should have carried offlcial John Cahill off the court instead ol' Doherty. 
Doherty also a.greed someone else should have been lifted up on the studcnts shoulders. but he didn't mean the officials. 
"As neat as it was to have to have the students lift me up, they should have lifted those 13 guys up," Doherty said referring to his playors. "But I guess that's a lot morn poundage." 
Calhoun also made it a point to say that he thought his team did a good job defending Murphy, "but there were thrnc guys \-vhn didn't." 
Surely Im was rPforring to thnw guys in pin­stripes. Doherty had a simpl<! solution to the discrepancy in fouls. 
"That's the b<'auty of playing a zone," he said. "The other team is going to take a lot of 3s. If they're making them. you're in trouble, but you're not fouling them. If you press and play aggressive man-to-man you're going to commit a lot of fouls. I think that's where Wt>, won the game Ion thH foul lineJ." 
Calhoun. howovf'f, doesn't follow logic and I'm sum h1~ wouldn't havn had a problem if his team had thP foul shot advantage or if they won. lie also didn't have a problem with EI-Amin's arrogance last season when lw stood on the scorer's table at Pittsburgh after knorking down the game-\.vinning shot. 
Go figure. 

f 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Better stil, et::h 1he wa,rw,g 
sg,s.., ya,r bnlil. And 
MN you'nl at II. makl a 
manml nol& to cal 9-1·1to 
gal OOC) fasl any .,,.hi'; 
t/'ON '4). To 1-rl more, Yisll 
-.ame,ical ,'»atl.org or 
cal 1-800-AHA-USA1. 
American Hurt A 
Association.V ,..,..i.wta-...-. .... ...­
f ' 
I ' 


" 

TRY OUR NEW ITALIAN CHICK'N CRISP FOR ONLY 99¢. 
( LET'S JUST SAY THE EXCHANGE RATE 
99¢ 

IS IN YOUR FAVOR.) 

THE NEW ITALIAN CHICK'N CRISP AT BURGER KINGf 
You don't have to travel far to enjoy a little taste of Italy. Introducing the delicious Italian Chick'n Crisp sandwich at BURGER KING® restaurants. Tender, juicy, all-white-meat chicken topped with mozzarella cheese and zesty marinara sauce. Right now just 99¢. 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
Price and participation may vary. 


• 
Monday, February 14, 2000 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 

a long 2-pointcr. The official at Connecticut reserve Marcus Huskies' Albert Mouring. foul shots," Connecticut head first calli~d it a :1, which would Cox fouled Carroll on the in­"I was just pretty much the coach Jim Calhoun said. "It's
M. Bball 
have LiPd th<• game, but was bounds with 13.2 left in regula­continued from page 24 ovcrrulPd bv an ofncial stand­tion. Carroll missnd the first ing closer l<>-the play. shot. but knocked down the 
Matt Carroll. Carroll nailed ''I'm glad Frncman has big serond for the Irish to take a both fre11 throws with 28.3 sec­!'cwt," Notrn Damn head coach 68-66 lead. onds rPmaining to makP thr, Matt Doherty joked. "If Im had Then Kartclo canrn up with scon· b7-<>4. · size 1Os. it might have been a tlw biggest play of the game as 
Freeman tlwn connc•rtnd for 3. but Im was on the line.·· he blocked a long shot by the 
ome Join the TraditiJN ti.ons are now bein. 
• • . Yt 

anager pos1t1og~iE•iir~­
:s,,M:r•·..

··001 academic s~\;/ 
"ilY pick up applicatiJJl Office of Student Activii1.·•·
,.._.. . ;,,, . . . .:i{ --· .. 
315 LaFortune <line: February 2 
This Valentine's Week... 
LEARN TO LOVE YOURSELF 
JUST THE WAY 

, I love me 
YOU ARE" 

safety guy," Kartelo said. "It was my job to just make sure they were boxed out." 
Murphy grabbed the ball to cement the Irish victory. 
"I felt relief," Murphy said. "I thought something good was going to happen, and it did." 
The victory was a big rebound after away losses last week. 
"After two awful games at Pittsburgh and Villanova. I was concerned about this team," Doherty said. "I was wonder­ing, are we going to pack it in or are we going to make a last stand, and we decided we were going to fight." 
Notre Dame kept alive linger­ing hopes of heading to the NCAA tournament with the win, its third over a 1999 Final Four team this season. 
"This isn't a f'luke," Graves said. "Beating Ohio State. beat­ing Connecticut twice, beating St. John's -it's not a nuke." 
Connecticut was hot from the field in the first half, shooting 
64.3 percent to Notre Dame's 
34.5 percent. The Huskies' Mouring led the way with his 14 first-half points on 6-for-8 shooting. 
But Notre Dame managed to stay within six points at the half thanks to 10 free throw shots. 
"The most frustrating thing was that Notre Dame had 28 
0PAING 0REAKS 
hard to win when you let a team shoot that many free throws. Once again. we shoot 56 percent and win by 1 7 from the floor, but their free-throw shooting determined the game." 
Connecticut picked up a lot of fouls with a v~~ry physical man­to-man defense. They attacked Murphy with double-and even triple-teams. forcing him into 5-for-20 shooting in the game. Murphy came out of the game bruised and wearing a bloody jersey. 
"It wasn't a pretty game." Doherty said. "It was a physical game. It was a little bit of a sl ugfest." 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, played a zone defense that only sent Connecticut to the free throw line three times. 
The Irish began closing the gap in the second half. l jFresh man Matt Carroll nar­I rowed the margin to two with l his first points of the game -a l 3-pointer from the right base­

1
line. 
After the two teams exchanged turnovers, Murphy dragged down a defensive 
l
rebound, and Graves tied the score at 45 on Notre Dame's ensuing possession. 
l 
Connecticut's Robertson fouled 
• 
Graves on the shot, and Graves l nailed the free throw to give I Notre Dame its first lead since 
taking a 2-0 advantage. 
The Huskies pulled back into the lead at 49-46 with buckets by Deng and Voskuhl. But the Irish worked their way ahead, as Murphy hit two free throws and Graves swished a 3-point­er. 
The Irish never trailed again. despite the Huskies' contain­ment of Murphy. Ile scored 18 points in the game, but eight came at the free throw line. 
"I could shoot O-for-50, and we could still beat the national champions," said Murphy, an All-American candidate. 
~ 

( INFOltMATION I ltUEIVATIONS 
1-800-SUNCHASE 
.. ... . www.sunc ase.com ·· 
Irish Notes 
. 
Three sophomores scored in double digits for the Irish ­Murphy, Graves and Harold Swanagan with 10. 

. 
Dillon dished off 10 assists in 35 minutes of play, while only turning the ball over twice. 

. 
The game was the second Joyce Center sell-out of the sea­son for Notre Dame. 




Notre Dame Film. Television and Theatre presents 

by  William  Shakespeare  ,  
Sunday Matinee. February 20 ........... 2:30 pm  Thursday. February 24 .................. 7:30 pm  
Wednesday. February 23 .................... 7:30 pm  Friday. February 25 ... . .. . . ............ 7:30 pm  

Saturday. February 26 ......................... 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Student{ S12 Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
?itt1td, '8od1, Sµ,ut,, .A 6detm<~ o/ &u.e-'t'f· 'Bo4,-. &a,til«;-'Dl.aa,,,d.et Awa1e-t(£44, ?ai't 7e~~'I-IS-l7, 2000 /laffl,-4/t#t, "/)(l;(Jlq, '1:otJ,n a,t .ta.t(J'tttUte 
For more information, contact: University Health services 631-8286 / University Counseling Center 631-7336 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 14, 2000 
"I got a lot of open looks," Hatay said. "Huth

W. Bball 



.,:,­
., 
drew a lot of attention under the basket so I was

continued from page 24 
open." 

Hiley was supposed to Point guard Niele Ivey meet her team at 5:30 added 12 points and p.m., but because or a mis­dished out seven assists for understanding on her part. the Irish. she did not think the team McGraw used her was meeting until 5:45 squad's large lead to give 
p.m. and showed up five her reserves some much­
minutes  needed  
late.  experi­ 
T h e I r i s h stole a quick 7­ "You have to respect Riley. She's one ofthe best in the nation. We did  e n c e before heading into their  
0 lead in the first t h r e e minutes  a betterjob ofdefending her when we played at our place. We made a lot  toughest week of contests this sea­ 
of  play.  ofmistakes under Notre  son.  
but R  the e d  Dame·s pressure tonight."  "I think our bench  
S t o r m ;•  was  mak­ 
ans w OJ.;  Darcel Estep  ing  a  
e  r  e  d- St. John's head coach  statement  

b a c k quickly. going on a 8-1 run to bring the score to 9­8. 
Not wanting to lose the lead, McGraw called a timeout to motivate her squad. Coming out of the timeout, Hiley led the Irish in outscoring the Hed Storm 33-4, en rout!~ to a 48-24 half'time lead. 
Hiley scored all 15 of her first half points during the run. 
"You have to respect Hiley," Hed Storm head coach Darcrd Estep said. "She's one of the best in the nation. vVe did a better job or defending her v.·hen we played at our place. \Ve made a lot of mistakes under Notre Dame's pres­sure tonight." 
Hatay bolstered the Irish lead in thr, opening min­utes of the sr.cond half, scoring eight points in the first six minutes of play. 
to me 
tonight," 
McGraw 
said. "I knew they were ready to play. \Vhen I put them in, they played with a lot of confidence. They played with a lot of intensity, and we need that going into this week because th is is a really big week for us." 
Guards Erika IJaney and Monique Hernandez turned in top perfor­mances from the Irish bench, combining for 13 points. 
"[Hernandez] is someone who has really come along," McGraw said. "She's very quick and she's very f'iesty. I think the crowd really likes her effort and intensity out them." 
The Irish turned in their record-setting 20th­straight home court win in front of a crowd of 7,530, their second-largest crowd in school history. 


INTERESTED IN A CAREER IN BOOK PUBLISHING? 
Anna Kosse. a graduate of the University of Notre 
Dame and the University' of Denver Publishing 
Institute and now with SourceBooks, Inc.• will be on campus to speak with 
interested seniors and graduate students about the PUBLISHING INSTITUTE and job opportunities in the industry. 
Monday, Feb. "14 
One-on-one Conferences "I0:00-"1'1:30am in Armstrong Room (La Fortune) 3:00-4:00pm Grand Hall O'Shaughnessy 
Information Session 4:00-5:00pm in "I "I 9 O"Shaughnessy 
wwvv. du_ ed u/pi 


IT'SA 

D 


YES! 
It's a sure thing our team is going to give a 110°/o effort. Giving 110% is integral to the Notre Dame ~ttion. Giving a l lOo/o ~ffort in member service is• also part and parcel of the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union tradition. To both of these thoughts we would simply like to add... 
Go tea.ml 
~NOTRE DAME 
.-.FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit 
219-239-66 l l 
www.ndfcu.org e-mail: ndfcu@ndfcu.org 

INDEPENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 
LENDER 



, . , ' 
page 21Monday, February 14, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS HOCKEY 

Irish split weekend with Mavericks, retain fifth-place 
By MATT OLIVA 
Spurts Wrirc:r 
Two Notn'. Dame hockf~Y t(~ams shoWf\d up this weekend, as tlw Irish split tlw we(~kcnd series with the Nebraska­Omaha Mav1~ricks. After drop­ping Friday night's ganw to the Mavericks. :1-1, tlw Irish cam<\ back on Saturday with a con­vincing win. 7-4. to regain sole possession of firth place. 
Friday, Notre~ Dame appeared on its way to starting off the series with a win. 
ThP Irish scored just over threP minutes into the game whPn Ben Simon's pass toward the 1wt glanced off of Dan Carlson's skatn and past 
Maverick goaltender Kendall Sidoruk. It was a quirk goal. but the Irish offense struggled to put togctlwr any offense the rest of 
tlw way. 

Nebraska-Omaha answered back with two more goals in the period to take a 2-1 lead. which was eventually enough for the '\Yin. 
The first goal came on the power play. but the second was thn one that really took the wind out of the Irish. Notre Dame was on the power play. but turned the puck over to Maverick sophomon~ Jeff Hoggan. Hoggan bounced the puck off Irish goalie Tony Zasowski's left pad for the short-handed goal. 
The Irish ha~ only one good chance at scoring. which came in the second period. Joe Dusbabek fired a shot with four minutes remaining that got past the Mavericks' goalie but hit off the cross bar and deflected away from the net. The Mavericks then put the Irish away on an empty-net goal. 
"We were out-worked all night," Irish head coach Dave Poulin said. "ft is frustrating because that is one thing in life that you control. They were a very good hockey team." 
Saturday night's game was a different story. The Irish scored first on a power play. The Notre Dame power play came up empty the night before, but David Inman ended the drought by converting on a pass from Evan Nielsen. The lead did not 

OKCAtt1pMf Jtmior'Parmt~ukfflb SpeNJ Y:(hfflAnt 17·21. 2000 
Come early; stay late. same pricef 

Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent. Whelher you stay Two, three, or fOll" nights. Rooms are available Thursday hough Sunday. 
For reservations, caU 219-631-7512. 
last long as Hoggan scored an unassisted goal 2 3 seconds later. 
Things turned around in the second period for the Irish. Michael Chin scored on a give­and-go with Brett Henning to put the Irish back on top at the 
l:14 mark. They increased their lead eight minutes later when Chin found the net again for his second goal of the weekend. Ben Simon set up the goal by skating to the side of the crease and g1ving a backhand pass to Chin, who then put the puck between the legs of the Maverick goalie. 
The Irish appeared to be heading into the second inter­mission with a solid two goal lead, but Simon broke free and into the Nebraska-Omaha zone as time was winding down. He then dove and knocked the puck past Sidoruk as time expired to give Notre Dame a 4-1 lead. 
The UNO bench argued that time had expired before the puck crossed the goal line. but the referee remained with his call and allowed the goal. It was Simon's first goal in 15 games. dating all the way back to the Massachusetts series. 
It was the second controver­
sial call in the period. Early it 
appeared that the Mavericks 
had tied the game at two. but 
the referee waived it off stating 
that the whistle had blown. 
Heplays show that Zasowski had 
never covered the puck, but the 
early whistle prevented UNO 
from getting back into the game. 
"There were some-question­able calls and the breaks went 
our way," Poulin said. "You're not going to get them all but we 'II take them when we get them. I believe that the breaks even out, and we haven't been getting them lately. It would be great to see things go our way down the stretch." 
The third period became slop­py, as the UNO team showed its frustrations. Nielsen scored a power-play goal from the blue line to pad the Irish lead. Nebraska came back to make the score 5-2. When all was done, the Irish came out of the game with a 7-4 victory. Inman and Carlson added goals for the Irish. both on the power play, giving Notre Dame four for the night. 
Much of the scoring outbreak came from the freshmen. Altogether they accounted for eight points on the night. Chin had two goals, Nielsen added a goal and two assists, and Connor Dunlop finished with three assists. 
''Tonight we scored goals. and goal scoring is confidence," Poulin said. "The confidence from power-play goals carries over to five-on-five. The four power-play goals is big. \Ve played better -we skated and got to the puck. The key is to get more people involved. Nielsen played a big part tonight, and Dunlop was a key with his pass­es." 
"We have to carry it over to 
next Friday now," Poulin said. 
"We can't wait for two periods 
to play. We have to come out 
right away against these 
teams." 
' 
-

"::· 
i\(' \ . 
.!=''
f'
' i 
p page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 14, 2000 
\ 
tl
~ 
' 
1'.l\ WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
q
( 1 
~>. Saint Mary's breaks records, finishes fifth in MIAAs 
! ( 
I. 
I' 
:a,:,} 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Spores Writer

\: (
,:f
t 
',.' i'' Breaking an unprecedented {~t five records over the course of t}{ the MIAA Championships, the \~ Belles slid into fifth place in the final seconds of the com­
1
r' petition, proving they could~1 pull it out when it counted.
\-) Placed fourth after
t 
Thursdav's dav of racrs. Saint

i' 
Mary's fell behind in the final

f,, 
score on Saturday to Alma

t 
College.

L. 
Coach Gretchen Ilildebrandti was not too surprised, "Alma has a really good diverse team. Just by the point
;+,.i 
spread -they out-s\.vam us." 

::1 
she said. 'Tm so pumped we 

bet Albion. It's something ~ / we've wanted real bad." . ~, Slipping into sixth place
,,. 
behind Albion College going ,\; into Saturday's finals. the Saint Mary's swimming and 11 diving team knew they had to pull out the close races to:} jump back up to fifth place. 
\ 
Opening Thursday night with

' 
\ 
a surprising fourth-place fin­

). 
u' ish dominated by record­~' breaking performances. the 
\f <; 
Belles had one more night to make the statement they had wanted to make all season.

j:f 
Entering the 100 freestyle event shor11y before the end of

,;, 
r; 
the meet. Hildebrandt broke down the score for the team and told them her hunch. 
..,._
--"Look -it's in the bag," 
Iit( 
she whispered as she showed her team that they were only two points behind Albion 

....
!' College. l l. A few hours later, screams 
i: (I: 
and r.heers were deafeningly i loud as Saint Mary's swim­
mers crowded the side of the \ pool to watch the last relayl J,i team of the MJAA champi­
onships lining up behind the

1l' 
I 
blocks. Coming back from a 10-point deficit , which put them in sixth place at the beginning of finals Saturday night, the 400 freestyle relay's record-breaking swim guaran­teed Saint Mary's a fifth place final score of 191 points ­ahead of Albion and Oliviet College. 
Although Colleen Sullivan, Danielle Clayton, Alicia Lesneski, and Lane Ilerrington felt the pressure before the last relay of the weekend finals. they still did not miss the chance to enjoy their last race of the season. 
"I was thinking it was the last [race] -we're just going to have fun," freshman Herrington said. 
The relay. which broke the previous record set in 1994 by 4 seconds with a time of 3 minutes 51.37 seconds, was only one of many reset this weekend. 
Sullivan continued her record-breaking streak. reset­ting Teresa Popp's 100 free record with a time of 56.48 seconds. 
Lauren Smith broke her 200 breastroke record for the third time this season in 2:35.25. Michelle Samreta broke. her own 100 breastroke record for the third time, lowering it to 1:10.13. 
The relay team of Samreta, Herrington, Sullivan and Lesneskie also added another record to the board, breaking last year's 400 medley record. 
"I never really thought about records," Hildebrandt said. "I didn't know what was possi­ble. \!Ve reallv redid the entire record book.·They did a great job." 
Top six finishers included Smith. finishing fourth in the 1650 freestyle with a time of 
19:01.59; L. Smith with a time 

I ( 
j 
l 
( 
i 
of 2:35.25 in the 200 breast and fourth place finish; and a fifth-place finish for the 400 free relay. Samreta and Smith teamed up on Friday night for a second and fourth place pair of finishes in the 100 breas­troke. 
Co-captain Samreta finished her last collegiate meet with the 200 breastroke on Saturday night, after setting the school record in the 100 breast three times, and the 200 breastroke record once over her Saint Mary's career. 
Samreta, who has been co-


Saint Mary's College Student Activities Board 
Applications for 2000-2001 Chairwomen Positions Available at Haggar College Center Front Desk From Monday, February 14th To Friday, February 25th 
Available Positions: 
Marketing Chairwoman  Innovation Chairwoman  
Entertainment Chairwomen (2)  Traditional Events Chairwomen (2)  
School Spirit Chairwoman  Treasurer  
Movies & Munchies Chairwoman  

www.saintmarys.edu/~sab Questions? Contact Allison Webb at ext. 4379 
captain of the Belles for three years, also earned the honor of Athlete of the Year in 1999. 
The finish was bittersweet for Samreta, who spent as much time in the pool over the past four years as she did in the classroom. 
"I walk away from this very happy -with no regrets," Samreta said. "I'll definitely miss swimming, especially the team." 
The championship, the first ever to be hosted by Saint Mary's, was attended by all schools in the MIAA r.onfer­

Valid3112/001tvough313VOO _ b1Md11111. ,.... 
800-654-6216 
Vtsll IS ,t www.d&1lo1&bclC~rcs0rt.co¦ or www.dlsc011lbre1k.coa 
en ce. Saint Mary's officially joined the MIAA in May of 
1999. 
"There was great dedication on parts of coach and swim team," athletic director Lynn Kachmarik said. "This could not have been run if' not for the staff, students and friends. I'm so thankful for the sup­porL 
"[t was so important for us to show the MIAA we are seri­ous about this," she continued. "I don't know how to thank what everybody just did to make the meet successful." 
With the possibility of host­ing another championship on the horizon, the fmd of the season may mean an end to the 1999-2000 season, but a beginning for the nexL 
'Tm already looking to the future," Hildebrandt said. "It will only get better. We have a good strong class coming in that will add depth and more diversity," 
However, she is not about to let what happtmed this week­end ever leave her memory, 
"I want to cherish this right now," she said. "Everything was so amazing, I want it to last forever." 

Summer Positions Available: 
Notre Dame Athletic Department Sports Camp Office 40 Hours/Week Please Call: 631-8788 

as ® 



.. ' 
.. I I • 
' 
• I 

Monday, February 14, 2000 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
Fox TROT BILL AMEND 
ti 
TRUST ME.
NO, HE JUST
IT'S ABOUT THIS GUY
kAFkA'S 
HMM. I YoU'RE PEST
COOL. IS WAkES UP
WHO TURNS INTO AWHAT'S "THE 

MAY HAVE ENOUGH AS
ll 
HE A MAO LtkE THAT
GIANT INSECT AND

THAT META.MOR• 
To START IT IS.
SCIENTIST ONE DAY.
FREAkS OUT HIS

YOU'RE PHoSIS." 
. O.!i 
I
I 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
7V eE HONEST,. I D~7" EV£N UK£ 
VALE-NTINE">S DA'(. ALL THAT OVER­
H'(PE"D MARkeTINb, ALL 'THE 
VNNE:C8"55AR.'( 50C.IAI,.. AWl<WA!<-PN€S5. 
\T REALL'( PUTS ye, u euys IN AN 
IJNFAIR PO&ITION, Wt\o NEEDS ITZ 
A.GR.Ee? 
qH.'(EP. K, . . • l,UE.;5) 



beam.1@nd.edu 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Staff of Life, for 58 Actions at 1 Spring event short Sotheby's 5 Central 33 "Little Women" 59 This doesn't American Indian author but it can be
9 Land with half of 35 I.R.S. employee: 
Mount Everest Abbr. 60 Writer Ira 14 Massive 36 Get the 61 Rim 15 "Deutschland ground floor 62 Stratford-upon­
_Alles" 37 "Shhh ..." 16 Like Bo-Peep's 63 Rendezvous
40 Mideast's Gulf herd of 64 Wine dregs 17 And others: 65 Mailed
41 Notebook 

Abbr. 
projection18 Cushy fabric 
42 Bug DOWN 19 Subjects of 
1 The Huxtable many New 43 Danson of 
boy, on "The Year's "Cheers" Cosby Show"
44 Judge's apparel

resolutions 2 Certain45 Perch20 "Shhh ..." Rwandan46 Fellows23 Singer-actor 3 Actor John of 
Kristofferson 47 Homeless child 
"Sands of lwo 24 Chapeau 49 Reply to 20-or Jima" 25 Goddess of the 37-Across 
4 Famous hunt 57 Comment to the 
5 Civilian clothes 28 Badly claw audience 
6 Aids in crime 7 "Gimme an A! ... ," e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 Commedia 

F LA S 
dell'_ R E P A 9 Words of refusal --+-,-+-+-,,.+,,-1 1OThrow out in the street 11 Where a ship 
comes in 12 Poker starter 13 "_we forget 
" 21 Steamed --+-+--1 22 "Stop talking!" __.._ _. 25 Sponge gently --+-+--+--I 26_-France 
~.,,,..+,;;,.+-,,;.t..;.,,+,,,,,.;.,;.....,,._t-,,;;...i 27 Did stage work N E D U C A T I O N 28 Alternative to A 0 0 P H I S T R Y yes or no ""'· 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Daine and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two cainpuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your hon1e. 
Puzzle by Hugh Davis 
29 Long, long _ 
30 Put an (stop) 31 Some stadium features 32 Hagar the Horrible's dog 34 Wyoming range 36 To the degree that 38 Catch red­handed 39 Eagle's nest 44 Show remorse 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Daine, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City _______State ____ Zip______ 
l 
l 
J 
1 
I 


46 Calf-length 51 Roman historian skirts 
52 Cain's brother 47 Pie slice 53 Go by horse 48 Dolts 54 Wash 49 Brewery grain 55 Kind of jacket 50 Belgian river, a 56 Bad 
W.W. I battle line impression? 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Gregory Hines, Florence Hen­derson, Dave Dravecky, Jack Benny, Hugh Downs, Meg Tilly 
Happy Birthday: You will want to learn, improve and travel this year. The more contact you have with people from different back­groW1ds, the more you will open up to new ideas and interesting ways to do things. You will be looking for a way to obtain all the finer things in life. If you work hard, you will be successful. Your lucky numbers: 3, 8, 18, 25, 27, 36 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may become angry if you don't get your way at club meetings. Be sure to curb your extravagance and don't try to buy another's support. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be upset if someone you love has spent too much of your money. Be careful not to make unreal promises. You will probably find older family members in need of help.000 
GEMINI (May 21•June 20): You may overreact to criticism. Try to be objective with regard to your person­al situation. You will find it difficult to concentrate on important issues concerning work 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be careful not to reveal secret informa­tion. Co•workers may be less than ecroperative. It is best not to travel or present your ideas until a later date. 
000 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your charming and outgoing nature will attract potential mates. Get involved 
Birthday Baby: You are eager to learn, but emotionally stubborn. You have a great interest in everything and everyone. You're always asking questions and often taking a position in the limelight. You are not one to sit back and let 
life pass you by.(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
I!:! 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
in groups that interest you, and con­sider planning a vacation. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Career changes made today may backfire. Do not make decisions re­garding your position in society or your domestic situation. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Travel and getting together with peers or relatives should be on your agenda. You will be able to express yourself pleasingly and contribute to groups you belong to. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do not overload your plate with trivial duties that would be best handled by less qualified colleagues. Plan your actions carefully to make the most of your time. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your energy will be best spent contributing to organizations of interest. You will attract members of the opposite sex easily due to your charisma. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be able to enlisr the aid of co-workers to finish an important job. Do not make career changes or disagree with employers. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Events that involve children will be entertaining. Try to invest in items that are futuristic. Self-improvement projects will start to pay off. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be emotional about issues going on in your home. Older family mem­bers may pose a problem for the rest of the familr. You may find it neces­sary to dea with institutions today. 
00 

--, 

Record Breakers 
The Saint Mary's swimming and diving team broke several school records at the MIAA Championships last weekend. 


page 22 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Monday, February 14, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish knock off champs, again 
. Kartelo's block seals Notre Dame victory 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sports Editor 
After losing two Big East games on the road last week, the Irish decided thev were not going to drop three straight. 

Even if that  
meant earn­ing a second  Notre Dame 68  
upset  over  Connecticut 66  
defending  
national  

champion Connecticut I17-6, 6-4 Big East). which is what Notre Dame (15-10, 6-5) pulled off Saturday in a. 68-66 thriller. 
"\Ve didn't want to lose three in a row," said sophomore for­ward David Graves. who scored 17 points. "Losing is hard enough. Losing two in a row is really hard. But losing three in a row -it's unaccnpt­able." 
Connecticut's Kevin Freeman scored with one minute remaining to tie the score at 64. 
The next time down the court. the Huskies drilled Irish fonvard Troy Murphy. but no rail was made. Instead, offi­dals whistl<~d Huskies· c<~nter Jake Voskuhl for his fifth foul on Irish reserve Ivan Kartclo. Ka.rtf>.lo made the first of two free throws to give his team a one-point lead. · 
Connecticut pulled down the rebound, but Graves knocked the ball away from Ajou Deng to turn possession back to Notre Dame. 
Yet another Huskies player fouled out, as Tony Bobertson fouled Irish f'rrshman guard 
see M. BBALL/page 19 



WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame routs Red Storm in biggest win of season 
No. 5 ranking and were still the helm. the Irish extended their Muffet McGraw said. "I thought shots. She shot 7-for-8 from the
By KERRY SMITH 

team to beat in the Big East record to 21-2 and 12-0 in the that was probably her best field and hit 5-for-6 from the 
Assisunr Sports Editor 

conferenre. conference with a 94-51 routing game since North Carolina. and free throw line -playing just After 40 
of the Hed Storm of St. John's. at both ends of the floor. She 16 minutes for the Irish. 
When th,~ Irish stepped on the 

minutes of The 43-point margin of victo­rebounded well and recorded McGraw denied Hiley her court Saturday. they were out 
tough play ry marks the largest win for the her first double-double. She had 80th-career start because the to make a statement. 
Saturday, Irish all season. just a great game." junior All-American candidate 
After a disappointing team 

that state­Hatay paced the Irish with 28 Hiley dominated play under was late for Saturday's game.
effort in their ·win over the 

ment could points and 12 rebounds. The the basket. Despite watching "Normally I don't encouragePittsburgh 
not have freshman sharpshooter went 6-the opening tip from the bench tardiness," McGraw joked. "But 
Panthers ear-Notre Dame 94 

b e c n fo r-9 from behind the arc, for the first time all season Huth Hiley was late to the pre­1ie r in the St. John's 51 stronger. recording her first career dou­because of disciplinary reasons, game shoot around and 
week, the 

With guard Riley ble-double. Hiley s tlll scored 19 po in ts, thought she had a great game."Irish needed 
Alida Hatay "I thought Alicia had just an pulled down three rebounds to prove that they deserved a and center Huth Hiley at the outstanding game," head coach and recorded three blocked 
see W. BBALL/page 20 

at Anderson University 
at Bowling Green Tuesday, 7 p.m. Friday, 7:35 p.m.
SPORTS 

at Seton Hall Saturday, 9 p.m.

ATA Track and Field 

at Villanova Big East Championships Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 

at Syracuse 
GLANCE 
Friday-Saturday 



