Night of stars Selling out 
Megan Mullally and Sean Hayes 
Notre Dame alum reacts to students 
Monday

won Hmmys for their supporting roles 
and alumni selling tickets to Nebraska 

in NBC's hit Will & Grace. 
Jans this weekend. 

SEPTEMBER 11, 
Scene . page 12 
Viewpoint . page 1 O 
2000 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 15 


HEARTBREAKER 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Gutierrez 

to speak on campus 
By NICK SWEEIJO 
News Wrirer 
Tonight the University wel­comes for a public lecture Father Gustavo Gutierrez. founder of liberation theology -an ideology that. ironically. has its roots on Notre Danrn's campus. 
Gutierrez, a native of Peru, wrote his grouTidbreaking book "A Theology of' Liberation." in 1971. after developing the thenrn of liber­ation theology while he was in the University's Hesburgh Library, according to theology professor. Father Virgilio Elizondo. 
"Ile is someone whose books our students have read in our courses," said John Cavadini. theology department chair. "It will be inspiring to hear him speak in person." 
Cavadini and fellow theology professor Matt Ashley agreed that when writers chronicle the history of theology in the 20th century, Gutierrez will be one of the most notable fig­ures. 
Ashley explained liberation theology as "theology that tries to understand how to live as faithful Christians in a world characterized by mas-
see LECTURE/page 4 


Students Inake likely targets for credit debt 
By LIZ ZANONI 
News Writer 
The ruad to independence !'or college students often includes newfound financial responsibili­ties. Wilh the cash supply from parPnts cut short. many students disr.over credit r.ards as the wav to finance everything froril school books to Friday night off­rnmpus dinners. 
Ilow1wN. a new study by the Consunwr Federation of ;\rnr.rica (Cf.Al shows that debt among college students has tripled since 1990. In turn. it has sparked a re-evaluation of credit card acr:essibility by students, parents, university officials and professionals. 
The new wavr of concern began wtwn Robert Manning, a sociologist and visiting professor at Georgetown University, pub­lished a report titled "Credit Cards un Campus: The Social C.osts of Studnnt Debt," which links credit card debt to major social and financial conse­quences. 
Charges are aimed directly at credit card companies who, through aggressive marketing strategies, encourage inexperi­enced students to use credit cards inapproprialely, Manning's research indicates. 
The CFA also accuses credit card companies of "encourage students to assume increasingly higher levels of debt without explaining the potentially serious social and economic conse­quences." 
Stephen Brobeck. the CFA's executive director. is working with Manning to educate stu­dents of the possible ramil'ica­
see CREDIT/page 4 

page 2 The ObJerver . INSIDE Monday, September 1I, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Selling ND short 
I havt1 n1w11r been mor1: proud to be a Notre Damn student than I was on Saturday. The spirit and nnergy rising l'rom the student section was incr1)diblc From holding hands in a show of unity for the Irish offense in overtime to scream­ing our lungs out to sup­
port tho drfPnS('. the stu­
dent section sent a solid 
rncssagn that we are the 
bnst f'ans in college football. 

0
And when the chips didn't fall Notre Dame's wily and Eric Crouch scam­pMcd in for that tour.h­down, the spirit didn't diR. We called the players over 

Mike Connolly 
to our corner and thankPd them for their efforts. Thanked them for their hoart. Thanked our fellow Editor In Chief stu<lnnls for making us proud to cheer /'or them. Anyone who thinks the magic is gone from Notre Dame football doesn't understand !';otrP Dame students -nPith<>r foot­ball players nor football watchr.rs. 
Saturday was truly our finest hour. 
Unfortunat<'ly the pride and spirit of the stu­dent snction and the hnart and determination of the play<'rs were once again ovPrshadowed. Last year at two baskr,lball games. isolated incidents drew national nrndia attention. This vear the stu­dl'nl-: rndnrmwd themsPIVc)s with a lciud, classy effort in support of our team. 
This time, however. a water bottle or a taste­less chant didn't drown out thn Irish spirit-the alumni did. I can only say that I am complAtely disgustPd with any alumnus who sold his ticket to a Nr.braska fan. 
What sort of change comes over a Notre Dame student on graduation day? llow does all the energy and spirit of the Notrn Dame student sec­lion transform into the greed and shame of the alumni? 
The players spcnt hours on the practice field and wer!ks in the weight room striving to make thnmsPlvcs bettPr. stronger. To represent this University with pride and heart. Can you really put a price on this? 
To all those alumni who sold their tickets ­and sold out our football team -I have one chal­lengo for you: Write a letter to Anthony Denman. Explain to our middle linebacker whyyou thought his efforts were only worth whatever you charged for your ticket. Tell him why there were 60,000 screaming Irish fans in his home stadium on Saturday instead of 76,000. 
Then I want you to call Arnaz Battle. Tell him why there were 20,000 people screaming against him when he led the [rish offense. Convince Battle. who played the entire game with a bro­ken wrist. that monny is more important than supporting this team. I want you to tell him how much his heart is worth to you. 
I want you to come to the Joyce Center and walk into the football ol1ice. Tell Bob Davie that you've given up on his team. Tell him that no matter how well he prepares his team, how murh they've improved. you just don't care. 
Thnn come to practice one night this week and stand oul-;ide thP gates of the practice field. When the team leaves the field, tell each of them that they mean nothing to you. Tell them you put a price on their heart. soul and effort. 
or course. I don·1 expect any of these things to happ1\n. It would take someonn with dass and pride to do thesf' things. · 
In one way, I am glad those alumni weren't at the game. Because when the students were chanting "We are ND" at the end of the game. they couldn't join in. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of th" author and not necessarily lhose ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
hnn Pressly Jacyudim: Hrowdt:r Ja5011 Mcbrley Graphics Narr Phillips 
Jost: Cuellar Sports 
Production Noah Amstadtn 
Hmn Kessia f..111re11 C:onri 
Andrew Soukup 
Viewpoint 

Lah Tech l'ar Krllcy Liz Lang 
Th,· Oh,~rver Cl'\['\ '\•1•1 !-1111(101 i, 1'11hlishcd Mond,,)' ,lm,11~1, hid.,r r;:1.cp1 thmn~ l')Llm ,md v.1c.11irm pnmi.k Tiu: Ohsc-rvi:-r is .1 mc,mb(•r of fhe ;\.,..11i.:i,11nl Pre.:.'!~-All u:pn,duc1iuu riµl1t.\ .m: rt.'.'it"rvrd. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Film: Cinema at the  . Lecture: "An Institution­ . Lecture: "ConfronLing  . Discussion: Current  
Snite, "Do the Hight  alist View of Education and  the Science/Value Split,"  affairs panel, "Guns,  
Thing," 7 p.111., Annenberg  Educational lfosearrh,"  Julie Nelson. 4 p.m., 118  Drugs and Money." 12:30  
Auditorium  Elizabeth McEncaney, 3:15  DeBartolo Hall  p.m., llesburgh Ccntnr,  
. Lecture: "For Love or  p.m., 1024 Flanner Hall  . Booksigning: "The  Boom c10:1  
Money ­ or Both?" Julie  . Film: "To Live," 8 p.m.,  Burning of Bridget Cleary"  . Booksigning: ''Logacy or  
Nelson, 8 p.m.. llesburgh  Montgomery Theater,  by Angela Bourke. 7 p.m.,  Lovr~" by William Coughlan,  
Center Auditorium  LaFortune Student Center,  Hammes Rookstore  7 p. m ..  I!ammos Bookstore  
OUTSIDE THE DOME  Compiled from U-Wire reports  


Court: U. of Iowa frat not responsible for 1995 death 
IOWA CITY. Iowa "We 're disappointed with according to the ruling. Diehl and The Iowa Supreme Court decided Reier helped Garofalo to a couch,
{Thursday's} decision and will
Thursday to uphold a district-court where he passed out. decision that the Universitv of Iowa's confer with our clients At roughly I1 :30 a.m. the following Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity was not regarding any further day, Garofalo was found dead. The responsible for the 1995 alcohol­medical examiner determined his
action."

related death of pledge Matthew blood alcohol level Lo bn . 188 but Garofalo. then 19. said it may have reach<'d the level of The court also affirmed Lhe dis­Edward Gallagher .300 prior to his death. court docu­missal of the suit against Timothy ments said. The cause of death was
Garofalo family attorney

Hr.ier. a former member of the fra­determined to be pulmonary Pdnma ternily who was at the house the and fluid in the lungs caused by night Garofalo died. tor, or "big brother." Following a excnssive drinking. 
However. the court said Garofalo's "Big Brother/Little Brother" ceremo­In the aftermath of' the incidcnt, UI parents may choose to pursue legal ny on the evening of Sept. 7. 1995, fraternities voluntarily became alco­action against Chad Diehl. the for­members went to their rooms for a hol-free in 1998. mer fraternity member who pur­traditional toast to celebrate the "We were disappointed with chased the alcohol that Garofalo relationship, the ruling said. [Thursday's[ dcdsion and will confer consumed. It was at this time that Garofalo with our cli<mts regarding any fur­
Diehl, who declined to comment, drank beer and hard liquor and ther action," said Edward Gallagher. was assigned to be Garofalo's men-began to "stagger and became loud," the Garofalo family attorney. 
WESTERN KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY 
School to sue two former officers 
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. 

Western Kentucky University dusted the cobwebs off a contract they haven't used in years to file a lawsuit they hope will pull $8,000 from two former campus police officers. Officers Anthony Purcell and Jeffrey Welch left the university one year and four months shy of a three-year employment requirement which was outlined in a contract they signed when they were hired at the university in April 1998. Western filed a lawsuit Tuesday to get back the money it paid to have the two officers trained. But according to Dan Rudloff, the officers' attorney, the university provided a poor and unsafe working environment and the officers were justified in leaving. The attorney cited several inci­dents and recurring situations that prompted the offi­cers' departure. He filed a counterclaim to the lawsuit Thursday. requesting that the case be dropped and Western pay the officers' attorney fees. "One of the reasons they left included not getting backup when they requested it," he said. 
UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS 

Two officers shrug off hero labels 
FAYETTEVILLE. Ark. 

"We don't feel like heroes, we were just doing our job." University of Arkansas Police Department officers Matt Mills and Aaron Mahon said. UAPD Capt. Brad Bruns said these officers arrived within one minute of a 911 call informing UAPD that gunshots had been heard in Kimpel Hall. The particular room was where graduate student James E. Kelly, 37, apparently mur­dered professor John R. Locke, 67, in Locke's office, Aug. 28, before turning the gun on himself, according to a medical examiner's report. Bruns said the of'ficers' quick response to contain the situation probably saved other lives. Mills and Mahon were on bike patrol that day, Bruns said. Mahon was in the Administration Building, and his bike outside, when he received the dispatch at 12:14 p.m.; Mills was in the Arkansas Union, and his bike was locked outside. Both arrived on the second 11oor of Kimpel by 12: 15 p.m. "When I received the call," Mahon said, "[ tried to get there as soon as I could." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast Act:uWt",uher •~nec1sr for d,,vrime conditions ,rnd. hie.h te-mner,1mr-c:'S  
H L Tuesday Q, 74 68 Wednesday ~ 73 52 Thursday ~ 71 54 Friday ~ 66 50 Saturday ~ 67 47  

The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 11 . 
FRONTS,
........
.....-.­............... 


~ 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. co,o WARM STATIONARY 
......
High Low Shower• ft11ln T••torma Flurrle• Snow Ice Sunny P1. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vsa At1KJcr11fed Prtn6 

Atlanta 87 ,68 Las Vegas 98 71 Portland 76 54 Baltimore 79 66 Memphis 85 73 Sacramento 93 58 Boston 71 63 Milwaukee 83 56 St Louis 88 73

qQ_QGQQ·X1~u 
Chicago 85 68 New York 78 67 Tampa 89 71 
Showers T•storms Rain Flu~;,es S~d.~ Jee Sunny Pt, Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 89 75 Philadelphia 79 67 Washrnlon, DC BI 6B 
Via Associated Press Gl7ilphicsNet 

Monday, September 11, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Ambiguities in duLac breed parietals urban legend 
Br LIZ ZANONI ~L'\VS Writer 
For \'Pars. students have oft1'11 s'usp1'1'.ted lhat tlw long arm of dul.ac stretched down Bull,L Hoad aml bcvond. 
Due to ambiguitiP.s in duLac -or prrhaps !ong-rrprr1ssml dnsire lo break pari{Hals ­studrnts in off-campus apart­ments ,rnd houses have often wondt\rr<l wht>tlwr or not the nightly sPparation of thr1 srxes Pxtnnds b1'y<md campus bound­aril's 
"!L's an urban legend that 
has bern passed on from grn­crution to genrration." said Jeffrey Shoup. director of Hrsidence Life at Notre Dame. Shoup confirmed that parietal visitation hours apply only to students living in residenre halls. Once students leave their dorm rooms they are no longer expected to abide by dorm visi­tation hours. 
One rrason why the parietals misconception persists lies in the ,.,ay duLac presents the University's regulations. Under the subtitle "Student Life Policies.. duLar states. "UnlBss otherwise noted. these policies 
and procedures apply to all students -undergraduate, graduate or professional. whether the behavior occurs on or off campus.'' 
DuLac lists. as one of thcsfl regulations. parietals for undergraduate resid(~uce halls. Although readers might assume that parietals apply to "all students" as stated above. they do not apply to people liv­ing off-campus. 
Brian ()'Donoghue. president of Notre Dame's student body, confessed that even he was a believer in the urban legend of off-campus parietals. He point­ed to the rnality that most stu­dents do not sit down and read duLac cover to cover. 

Instead, duLac should be used as a guide to student life, he said. 
According to Shoup. no stu­dent has ever come to the administration with a com­plaint about ·parietals being enforced off-campus by the Univcrsitv. Notre Dame is well aware that there are even cases where both males and females share housing accom­modations off-campus, he said. 
Jessica Martin, a senior American Studies major living in the Lafay1/tte apartment complex where many students reside, recognizes the differ­ences between dorm Jifp and of'f-campus living and like many students. agrees that it would be impossible for Notre Dame to enforce parietals off­c amp us. Unlike the dorms, Martin says off-campus living allows for a "late-night, friend­ly atmosphere'' where men and women have the chance to visit past visitation hours. 
"Most students don't give a second thought about pariflta1s when living off campus," said Martin. 
International Study Programs 

INFORMATION MEETING FOR SANTIAGO, CHILE With Bridget Green Student Returnees 
Tuesday September 12, 2000 215 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: October 1, 2000 for Spring 2001 
We do Mondays like no place else. Enjoy a double order of fajtfas (enoush for two) for ju.sf $10! * 

_..._,_,, ~f' pady pia':t"tef'S are ,-\!~..,1T\ pertecf for fai.fsafine or any specraI occasion. 
.A.nd cion·t forse± about our Bie Mou-fh Bure,ers. Baby Back Ribs. faJi±as, Saiads and more. Dtne in or ee± 1± fo r:p. 
*offer valid every Monday 11 am-close 
Mishawaka 
4810 Grape Rd. 
219.271.1330 

Feigl returns to SMC classrooms 
By KATIE MILLER 
News 'v(',irer 
A familiar face has returned to the chemistry department at Saint Mary's. 
After 14 years as an adminis­trator. Dr. Dorothy Feig! has returned to teaching. Since her arrival at Saint Mary's in 1966, Feig! has played many roles in the community. 
Growing up in Chicago, Feig! attended Loyola University where she majored in chem­istry. She attended graduate school at Stanford. 
After receiving her Ph.D., Feig] interviewed for industrial and teaching positions, before accepting a job at Saint Mary's -a campus she with which was already familiar. 
"My brother had graduated from Notre Dame and his wife was a Saint Mary's graduate," Feig! said. "I knew the school. When I came to interview, though. 1 found a very different 

INTERESTED IN A NON-NOTRE DAME 
STUDY ABROAD PROGRAM? 
The I11Stitute for stu~y Abroad at Butler University is holding an i~farmatton meeting on stu.~v abroad oyyortunities in the following locations: 
-f:00-4:3~pm: Latin America i11dudin8 Argentina, Chile (outside ~f 
Santiago) & Costa Rica 
+:30-5:a~vm: united Ktngdom, Ireland (outside ~f oubltn), Australta & New zea'IJlnd 
A1on~ay, seytember 11 in 119 O'Shaughnessy 1 
All Colleges welcome!! I!! spo11Sored by the office for undergraduate studies, college of Arts a.nd Letters 
''/ had always planned 
on returning 
to teaching. " 
Dorothy Feigl chemistry professor 

kind of education. There was a lot· of interaction between teachers and students. I really enjoyed that and it's proved to be everything I thought it would." 
Feig! began by teaching organic chemistry for majors. 
"Saint Mary's was an inclu­sive community. From the very beginning it was quite clear that I wouldn't be just with the chemists. I would interact with faculty from other depart­ments. I had always known that I wanted to be a chemist. but this school gave me the opportunity to interact with English literature professors, historians and communication professors," she said. 
Feig! found the student­teacher relationship at Saint Mary's very unique. 
"Student interaction was very important. You really got to spend a lot of time getting to know and talk to students of all majors. It was not what I had experienced in college," she said 
After teaching in the chem­istry department for 19 years. Feig! agreed to take a one-year temporary position as dean of faculty. 
"I had always planned on. returning to teaching," said Feig!. 
When the dean of faculty, Bill Hickey, became College presi­dent in 1986, he asked Feig! to · take his place until a replace­ment was found. That tempo­rary job lasted 14 years. 
"I just stayed and stayed," she said. 
Feigl's role as dean of faculty was very different from teach­ing. 
"As an administrator, I saw the school as a whole. Because I was hiring the faculty, I knew them very well. I always knew what all the departments were doing. I really liked to watch the whole school operating." she said. 
In 1998, a search was con­ducted for a vice-president, yielding Karen Ristau, who assumed the role of dean of faculty in 1999. 
Last year, Feig! was on sab­batical. 
"I had worried that chem­istry had changed while I was out of the classroom." she said. 
Now that she is back in the classroom -teaching organic chemistry this time around ­her fears went unconfirmed. 
"Everything I had worried about turned out to be fine. And my memory of how much I enjoyed teaching to out to be right. I've always thought of myself as a teacher and it 's great to be back," she said. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 11, 2000 

"Clearly, credit and debt are essential research to realize shaping !today's] college expe­that not every credit card is
Credit 

rience." Manning said in a June right for them. Students must 13 article in the Washington understand credit card lingo,
continued from page l 

Post and learning about annual per­lions -inducting physical and Manning daims that students centage rates (APR). inten~st (~molional pn,blPrns -of' crndil an\ changing the way they use rates. annual foes. and mini­rard d1ibt credit cards. Crndit debt is mum payments is essential. Creditors know that sludPnl,; bornming more acceptable and "Kids do not stop to think arP inPxperif'ncPd crr.dit (~ard accnssiblP as tlrn number of about the interest ratn," said us<'rs. Manning said, and the' solicitors on collPgP rampuses Ki-istal Pyle. ;1 consultant in the potnrllial spPnding rapacity grows Pach year. hr1 said. Abo. collr.ction dr.parlment at a 1st 1wwly-indc•prndPnt stu(knls students am trying hanfor to Source Bank in Mishawaka. possess is 1•1wrn10us. keep up with rww standards or "Thr.v have to read tho fine 
llw Campus Monitor rc-porl­living that have proved impossi­print bdorc applying for a Pd that in l 'l<J1J. l'ull-tinw l'OI­blt• l'or rnany to afford. Manning credit card." IP).(I' stud1•11ts ,·ontrollod ovt>r S,tid. L'sing a crndil card to nstab­$1 'I billion in annual voluntarv "It's Us(,ful to bo ablo Lo buv lish l'inancial independence is 
sp<'nding. · SOITIC'thing that you can pay for usPless, how(~VC'r, if par!'nts end 
llw most rP1·1•n t co1H:Prn latur," said Notrn Dame sonior up paying every bill. from c-rl'dit ('ard nitit·s has Trisha Bollard. "This way you "Tht> majority or [colll'ge stu­bt'Pll tlw 11P\\' su1){I' of' "allinity­do not havP to have tlrn rash in dentsI think, well. 'l\1orn and c a rd s " m,t n v your pocket. Dad will pay for it."' said Pyk. ll ll ivrrsi l iP~ and it's morn who rcH'. om m n n ds studc n ts ar1· now sup­':4 <TNlit card can be a l'OllVPninnl." know about r.rndit cards l.Jef'on\ porting to stop she said. coming to school. "Do not wait
positive powPr tool 
Ll1r> aggr,•ssivP According until collq{e to learn about bud­
when user/ corrPctly." gnting."
SO] i(' iI.a ti O ll S lo th11 l'u blil' studc·nLs l'XjW· l ll !. P r P st Onrc1 studnnls havr found th!' l'il'lll'.I' \\ ht'II David Ogden n,, s ('arch right crndil curd. tlw t,;,,y Lil fol­arriving on (; r o u p lowing a budgrting plan is
CEO, StudentCredit.com 
ram pus. (l'lltGI. if' a organization, said David Ogden, 1\ITiniLV•('ards stud1,nt wnre CEO of'Sl.udentCreclil.com. an• us;•d by a $2.!iOO in Tlw Wch sitP warns students univt>rsitv whPn tlw srhool debt with a credit card intcrcsl to watch out. for example. for maki•s a ilP,il with Dill' bank rnte of 18 percent. it would roommatns who might throw and giws tlwm tlH' solP right to takP :H y1'ars to l"('.pay tho dC'bt away an important bill dis­issuP (T('dil ,·ards on campus. if tlw studt>nt wne only making guised amongst junk mail. 
MBN;\ and First USA an• two company-imposPd minimum When important bills arrive. c:r1•dit rarcl issut>rs that an' lak­payrrn~nts. students should storn them 
ing advantagP of' llw afl1nily­The avcragn dPbt on under­meticulously away in a safe card deal with univcrsitins such graduate col!c!ge students' cred­place. f'ar from Amply pizza as \itichigan Stall'. thP it cards was about $2.226 in boxes and dirty laundry. Llniwrsitv ol"i'AnnesscP and the 1997. DespitP the !'act that stu­The financial independence 
University of' llawaii. In thcsP dents often find themselves in students Anrounter away from 
casl's. c'a('h universilv receives prrcarious financial situations. home has the potential to br about O.:i pPrc'f'nl.of Pverv a 1991) survey by the American either a rewarding or humiliat­transartion. making it a potpn·­SoriPty for Continuing ing experience. 
Lially lucrative business deci­Education {t\SCEl confirmed "A credit card can be a posi­sion for l!w school. that over 55 percent or Cflllcge tive power tool when used cor­
Tlw deals furtlwr bmw!it the students have at least one rectly," said Ogden. "Stay alert schools becausP credit card m,~jor credit card. and keep in mind that the sta­c:ompanies sponsor event., such t\lthough co!!cgp students tistics confirming the increasing as nwntor and scholarship pro­sometimes f'eel inundated with amount of student debt are grams. rcquf'sts from parnnts and against you. BAing smart about 
Manning and the CFA arc teachers lo consider the future, credit card management will worried that atlinity-card pro­it's just this that makes owning provide students with success­grams are cnvPloping many and using a credit card impor­ful credit histories." aspects of college life and hav­tant. ing influPnrP in areas that they SludentCredit.com. a Web 
lrnvn IHWPr had bPl'orn. site dPdicated to hPlping stu­
Many pPoplP who art> upset dents makn credit card deci­with aggr,•ssivl' t·n\dit card sions. indicates. "Hecciving a rnmpanins an• working hard to credit card and using it is the pass IPgislation whii-h would greatl'st step in building a good limit tlw in!lu1•nc·p (TPdit rnrds credit historv." lrnvP oil ram puses across tlw Unlike ch.Pcks which. when 
nation. Last spring tl11• used. kave no trace on onl''s TPnnPSSPI' stall' kgislaturP lTPdit rt\port. credit cards allow 1warly passPd a hill that would stud.-nts lo start ,~stablishing 
haVC' sloppPcl C'l'Pdit card solic.i­tlwir own financial status. lations on collPgP campust>s With so mmw credit cards out 
l'(llllplt>tf'ly. then~. studt•nt~ must put in thP 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS! JOIN US FOR OUR 30TH ANNIVERSARY KICKOFF 
CELEBRATION THURSDAY, SEPT.14 
FREE 
LAl'i'ES 
FROM3...5PM THEN JUST 70¢ ALL DAY 

Located in the. Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
not only liberating th1\ poor from oppression. but you are

Lecture 
continued from page I 
sive and dehumanizing suff1\I"· ing." 
Liberation theology rejects 
the notion that p1rnplr who live in poverty have themsrlves to blame for their condition. but rather a combination of unj 11st Pconornic and social struc­tures. according to Bobnrl Ilodes .Ir.. a law professor who has writt1rn two books detail­ing I.Im rrlationship bPtWPP11 libPration theology and tlw law. 
"By reforming unjust strur.­Lun~s," Bodes said, "you an1 
liberating yourself from being an oppressor." 
"My personal opinion is that the man is a saint." Ashley said of Gutir-rrez. ''Ilis r.oming is a tremendous honor to Urn UnivPrsity. It shows that Notre Damn is a part of the global Catholic community." 
Gutifrrez will givr a public lecturn oil "The ;\c'.tualitv of tlw PrPf'rrential Option f'or· tlw Poor" at 8 p.m. in thP McKPnna llal! auditorium. Ill' also plans to givP a colloquium on "TIH' Church of' tlw Poor: John XXIII and tlw Council" on TuPsday al 4::-rn p.m. in DP Bartolo llal!, 11011111 I:{ I. 

Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
Actors from the London Stage As You Like It 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 14 ............. 7:30 pm 
Friday, September 15 ................... 7:30 pm 
Saturday, September 16 ............. 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $1 6 • Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-81 28. 
'1,, 
> 
;·1·
...··_·..·.......·•.·· .. 
:>; 
\) 

We currently have openings available throughout the 
U.S. and Canada for 

Everything about business 1s changing. individuals with a degree lrs pace, paraJigms, strategies, global 
in Mathematics, Actuarial 
expectations, CVi.'ryd,1y d1allt.,nges. That's 

Science or Statistics.
where you'll comc in -with us. You'll h:veragc the prcsem:c of one of today's If unable to meet .with us, pleas.: leading glob.ii consulting lmns, l'nal~ling forward vour resu111e to: Watson Wvatt clients to not onlv adapt to a radically Wor!Jw1Jc, 303 W. MaJiwn Strcl·t ·Suite 
1 chanµing world, hut to flounsh 111 it. 2400, Chi<:ago, IL 60606; hv Fax: (3 I2) You'll be part of a team of some 5,000 704-2408; or by E-mail: Associates who provide dicms (Fortune Cl1ll.:ago_hr@watsonwyatt.com I00s, savvy srarr-ups, non-profits, etc.) 
For the full Watson Wyatt story, visit 
with definitive expertise in key areas: 

otir website or write: us. Watson Wvatt 
• 
Benefits Consulting is an EEO/AA Employi:r, M/F/DN.. 

• 
H11man Capital Consulting 



Visit us at: 

• Human Rcsourc1:s Tc:drnologies www.watsonwyatt.com 
• Acc:mmt Management 
Did you know? Watson Wyatt ranks #1 in the consulting industry for overall reputation and delivering value to clients, 

Watson Wyatt
accorcl1ng to an independent survey conducted by the Wal/ Street Journal 
Worldwide among its subscribers. 

:vtonday, September 11, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEH WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Afghanistan rulers urge peace: 
Afghanistan's Taliban rulers urged opposition forrns to lay down their arms to allow an end to th!' war as fighting raged on two northern fronts. Vans load(\d with bearded Taliban ,\'arriors rarrying assault rilles and rockt1t launchers WPrc sePn rumbling toward the fighting on tht> batll·rnd road. Thl~ Taliban rapturNI tiw city of" Taloqan in a major blow to tlw opposition. ,rnd the two sid0s have since been lighting at a standstill around the city. ,\f"ghanistan has bern devastated by two­d('r·acles ol" civil war. 
Shipwreck kills two: A Polish sailing yarhL rarrying young passnngcrs rammed into an unid1\ntirwd v!'ssd killing at !Past two pPopln and lnaving live othns missing. Th!' names ol' tlrn victims have not benn rcleased. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Scientist reaches plea bargain: Los Alamos sciPntist \Vnn !lo LeP. who was fired and jai!Pd on chargPs of mishandling nuclear Wt'apons sN·.r!'ts. has rcachrd a plra bargain in whi!'h he will plnacl guilty to one charge and coo1wrnt<' with frdnral investigators. Lee will pli\ad guilty to one folony rnunt of unlmvfully n•taining mwlrar weapon ser:rnts. be sentenr:ed lo tinw a]rpady srrV!'d and be immediately l'n'Pd l'ollowing a hearing. Lee has agreed to provid<·' information on sr.ven missing computer tapPs with data on nudmir weapons design and tPsting. 
Parents brawl at soccer game: A tied scH·.rnr game betwe<'l1 8-and 9-ynar-old girls !'ndPcl in a brawl among their parents in new .IPrs<'y allPr a disagrncrnrnt over whrrr a coach was standing. An argunwnt bntwnen the rival rna('hPs PsralatPd into a fistfight with as many as a dozen parPnls and coaclrns involvPd. TlwrP wPrP no arrPsts or injurins. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Fire started in Republican head­quarters: A small lire at Monroe County Hepublican Ili~adquartcrs in Bloomington was LIH\ work of an arsonist. The blaze damaged only Lhe extPrior ol' the building and was extin­guishnd within minuws. Fire insper:tors believe sonwone splashed tlw siding of the building with a!'crderant and thrn set it on fire. HP.public.an !'arty Chain-rnman Pat Salzmann b<'lievPs whoever set tho fire was making a statnment against tlw lfopublican Party. Them ,trP no suspects in tlw case. 
Market watch 9/8 

Dow 
11,220.65 -39.22 
]ONES 
Composite
Up: Samt." Down: 
Volume:1,304 507 l.,5JJ 

966,840,000
• 
AMEX: 967.92 -G.26 

Nasda<r 3978.41 -119.94 
NYSE: 675.73 +0.2<1 

S&P 500: 1494.50 -8.01 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE WORl.[)(:O.\I INC (Wt:0,\1\ -2.04 -.<,221 29,1)4 cr,ul WSTEM-' IC-'Ctll -\."H -2..!7f)() (,.!.88 INTl·I.C<lRI' :1"1TU -UJ"i -2 11'17.'i (i"i ..\R .\II< "Rl l"lH<·, \l{I' {~l\f'T) -1.fP __ 7:,21 \)t} •. \l I >El.I. U li\-ll'l!H.1{ <DELI, -S.l'S -l ..l07") .18.88 
SIERRA LEONE 

. AFP Photo 

A Jordanian soldier talks with a British soldier at the Rokel check point 16 miles east of Freetown. A British soldier was killed and another seriously wounded during a successful rescue attempt for six British soldiers who had been held hostage since August 25 by a rebel militia group. 
British soldiers escape captivity 
aged West African coun­British Defense Ministrv Kallay, were captured by
Associated Press 

try. British Defense spokesman said, speaking the British. the 
FREETOWN Secretary Geoff lloon on condition of anonymi­spokesman said. 
Launching a dawn said. ty. Another 11 British sol­A senior U.N. peace­
strike on a swampy base Helicopter-borne British diers suffered less serious keeping officer, Jordanian 
belonging to a maverick paratroopers exchanged wounds. About 150 sol­Brig. Ahmed Serhan. said 
army gang, British troops heavy fire with the Sierra diers took part in the raid. an unknown number of 
ended a two-week hostage Leone renegades. the "These casualties are renegades surrendered to 
drama Sunday and freed West Side Boys, at their regrettable, but are at the U.N. troops. 
all six British officers and creekside base surround­low end of the scale for Those who did not vol­
a Sierra Leonean soldier ed by mangrove swamps such a difficult and com­untarily give themselves 
held captive. One British and jungle, British Chief plex operation," the up "face the full penalty 
paratrooper was killed. of the Defense Staff spokesman said. "Our of the law," Sierra Leone 
The rescue mission. General Sir Charles thoughts are with the Information Minister 
authorized by British Guthrie said. families of all those Julius Spencer warned 
Prime Minister Tony Blair A paratrooper was involved." without elaborating. • 
and Sierra Leone killed while carrying out Twenty-five members of "It was a very difficult 
President Ahmed Tejan the rescue operation and the West Side Boys. operation," Spencer said. 
Kabbah, was carried out another was seriously including three women "We hope this sends a 
after the r,aptors "threat­injured although his fighters. were also killed message to (Sierra Leone 
ened repeatedly to kill the wounds were not consid­and 18. including gang rebel groups) to give up 
hostages" in this war-rav-ered life-threatening. a leader "Rrigadier" Foday their arms." 
CHILE 

Pinochet appeals for Chilean unity 
the main entrance to the forme1: the new generations." the statement
Associated Press 

dictator's heavily guarded suburban said. 
SANTIAGO Santiago residence. Pinochet, walking with difficulty 
In his first stal!mrnnt since a court Pinochet and his wife, Lucia, stood and using a cane. returned to the stripped him of his immunity and by their 17-year-olcl granddaughter house holding his wife's arm after paved the way for him to stand trial as she read. their granddaughter read the state• on human rights charges. Gen. "On this date, I want to express to ment. Augusto Pinochet on Monday called every man and woman of my The day marked the so-called upon Chileans to overr:ome "our beloved fatherland. that I shrltnr in "Day of National Unity," a day that pains and divisions of the past." my heart the firm hope that our replaced a holiday that had been 
l'inochet·s brief'. r:onr,iliatory divisions and pains of the past will observed on Sept. 11 -the anniver• remarks wcrn read by his grand­be overcomn, and we will set our sary of the bloody 1973 coup led by daughter. Maria Jose Martinez. at sight in the future. for the sake of Pinochet. 
page 6 The Oburver . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 11 , 2000 

JAPAN 

Quake rattles Tokyo, offshore island chain 
Associ;iteJ Pres. 
TOKYO 

A strong e,trthquakP rallied a slring of' volcanic islands off Tokyo on Monday. but with no imnwdiatP rPports of' damage or injuries. 
Tlw quake. with ,t prelimi­llary magnitudr or 5.2. was crnl!~rr.d rwar the lzu islands chain. n~ar.hing from about six miles undor tlw seabr.d. 
Thi> quak,, was most strong­ly foll on Toshima, about 90 mil11s south of Tokyo, and Shikinr.jinrn, but there wern no imnwdiale reports of dam­ag(i or injuriPs. local police said. 
Minuws later. more mod1ff­ate tremors continued to shake Lhe islands. including a 4.2-magnitude temblor. 
Since Mount Oyama, which 

stands 2.670-f'eet tall on the island of Miyakejima. began \'olcanic acti\'ity June 2G. the Izu islands area have been hit with some 13,800 earthquakes that were strong r.nough to be l'elt bv humans. On .lulv L a magnitude 6.4 tremor killed a man, who was burir.d in a landslide. on Kozushima. 
Now, onlv of'f1cials and relief worb\rs · rPmain on Miyakcjima after all ol' the island's 3,8"55 residents have fled to the mainland. 
ExpPrls have said shifts in huge underground pools of magma arc responsible for the recent volcanic and seismic activity on Miyakcjima. 
Japan is one ol' the world's most earthquake-prone nations as it sits atop four tec­tonic plates. slabs of land that move across the earth's sur­face. 
Writing the Fulbright Essay: Writer's Workshop II 
Sponsored by: 

The Notre Dame Writing Center This workshop is for people who wish to polish their Fulbright application a,ays. Inthe workshop, we willlook at what you've written thus far and discuss strate~es for improving your essay. Those who wish to participate are asked to drop off adraft of the essay withBeth Bland, 102-B O'Shaughnessy,bySeptember 11. 1o register: Register byleaving acopy ofyour essay at 102-B O'Shaughnessy. Where: 232 DeBartolo When: Thursday, September 14, 6:30-8:30 p.m. For more information about this and otherWriting Center workshops, contact: Professor John Duffy, director of the Writing Center, at jduffy@nd.edu. 
~;-~ 
.,,... 
.,
i 
JP 

"For Love or Mo11ey--Or Both? Gender. Justice, and Caring Labor" 
• Monday. September 11 at 8 PM, Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
"Can a Feminist Sun>ive in a Discipline such as Eco1wmics'l" ( brown bag lunch) 
• Tuesday. September 12 at 
12:30 PM, Hesburgh Library Lounge 
"Confronting the Science/V(!iue Split: Feminist Economics, Institutionafism, Pragmatism, and Process Thought" 
• Wednesday. September 13 at 4 PM, 118 De Bartolo 

The Provost's Distinguished Women's Lecturer Series Presents 
Julie Nelson 
Center for the Study of Values in Public Life, Harvard Divinity School 
Professor Nelson is well known as the author of books and articles in applied macroeconomics and feminist economics. Her work in applying feminist scholarship on the philosophy and methodology of science to the discipline of economics is widely recognized. In 1996, she published Feminism, Objectivity, and Economics with Routledge and she co­edited Beyond Economic Man: Feminist Theory and Economics, published by University of Chicago Press in 1993. Her articles have appeared in top-20 journals in economics, such as the American Economic Review, Journal of Political Economy, Journal of Labor Economics, anq Econometrica. In addition to being a leader in the economics profession, Professor Nelson is a founding member of the International Association for Feminist Economics and associate editor of the celebrated journal Feminist Economics. She has received prestigious honors and awards such as the Leif Johansen Research Award from the University of Oslo in Norway and the Second Place in the John W. Kendrick Prize for Best Article from the International Association for Research in Income and Wealth and major grants from the National Science Foundation and 
the Ford Foundation . 
Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
7:30 p.m. 
Little Theatre 

Mg~"i) 
F t. k . ,i . I £~THE ARB,
or 1c et inJ ormat1on contact ~"'a""..0.411-, 1• the Saint Marys College Box Office, 284-4626 
Want to write for The Observer? Call 1-5323. 
Monday, September 11, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
FTC: Entertainment industry Dlarkets violence to youth 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The entertainment industry routinely marknts lo young people violent movies, video gam11s and music, ignoring its own rating guidelines for age­sensitive matPrial, federal rng­ulators say in a report. 
The studv. to be reltrnsed Monday by ·the Federal Trade Commission. offers a tough indictment of llin industry's pr artices. 
It citr.s thr. us<' of a broad 
rangr of adv1:rtising and mar­
keting to reach youths with 
products rated for adults. according to sources familiar with the report's contents. 
The conclusions are derived in part from dor.uments submit­ted by the industry itself, including marketing plans that demonstrate the efforts of com­panies to advertise to young audiences materials designated for adults. the sources said. 
Both the movie and video gamp, industries have age­based rating code systems. Films rated H. for example, require an adult to accompany childrr.n under 17. 
Video games have their own code that includes an "M" rat­
ing indicating the product is  cials said, to discuss the FTC  shootings  in  the  nation's  
intended for mature audiences  report.  schools, and the president said  
ages 17 and older. The record- Lieberman has been a leading  the barrage of violence fed  to  
ing industry has a more general  critic in Congress of the enter- young people through enter- 
label that warns of explir.it con­ tainmcnt ind us­ ta in men t  
tent in music.  try on the issue.  " ... the entertainment  blurs  the  
FTC spokesman Eric London  Campaign offi­ 1  i  n  e  
declined  to  comment  on  cials  said  he  industry has to take  between  
specifics of the report, the  would have no  personal responsibility for  "fantasy  
product of a yearlong investiga­ c  o m  m  e  n  t  the products it provides .. _"  and reality 
tion  ordered  by  President  Sunday on the  violence."  
Clinton.  report.  Industry  
He said the study would be  Ari Fleischer,  Ari Fleischer  le ad er s  
noteworthy for "the light that it  the spokesman  George w. Bush spokesman  questioned  
sheds  on  how  this  kind  of  for Republican  what con- 
entertainment material is mar- n  o m  i  n  e  e  cl us ions  
keted by the industry itself."  George W. Bush, said the Texas  the government could draw  
London said.  governor "believes the enter- from scrutinizing Hollywood.  
The report includes a survey  tainrnent industry has to take  "If we  are  causing moral  
of marketing practices and  personal responsibility for the  decay in this country, wp, ought  
found most of the R-rated films  products it provides to our chil­ to have an explosion of r.rime,"  
and M-rated video games sur­ dren. And parents also have a  .Jack  Valenti.  head  of the  
veyed included promotional  role to play. We're all in this  Motion Picture Association of  
efforts  targeting underage  together.··  America, said Sunday. "The  
audiences.  The  Senate  Commerce  exact opposite is happening."  
The report does not suggest  Committee is to hold a hearing  lie argued that any evalua­ 
legislation. The FTC docs seek  Wednesday on  the findings,  lion of the marketing practices  
more effective self-regulation  with Lieberman scheduled to  of moviemakers  can  onlv b0  
of marketing practices by r,on­ attend.  Ile  and  Commerce  subjective  and  pra.ised  
tent makers and enforcement  Committee Chairman Sen. John  Hollywood ·s three-decades-old  
of rating codes by retailers and  McCain, R-Ariz ..  barked an  voluntary code in informing  
theaters.  amendment  bv  Sen.  Sam  parents.  
Sen. Joseph Lieberman of  Brownback.  l{-Kan.,  that  "For almost :~2 years, this  
Connecticut, the Oemocrat.ic  passed the Senate last year  industry has been the only seg­ 
candidate for vice president.  requesting the study.  ment of our national market­ 
f'.hanged his u1.mpaign schedule  Shortly afterward. Clinton  place that voluntarily turns  
lo  fly to Chicago so  he and  ordered the rnport himself and  away rcvenup,s at the box offic!i  
Democratic nominee Al Gore  paid for it with White House  to redeem the pledge that WP.  
could appear Monday on televi-I  monev.  His  announcement  have made to parents," Valenti  

sion intPrvieH'S, campaign <_Jt_·n_-__ca_m_e_·_a_rt_-e_r a spate _o_f_d_e_"a_<l_l_Y__s_a_id_.___________ 

While TIAA-CREF invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance 
Check out

like this. 
otheraccount 
performance
ontheWe 

TIAA-CREF has delivered impressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. 
CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT3 
In our CREF Growth Account, one of many (REF vari­
26.60%;

27.87%
26.70% 
•.

able annuities, we combine active management with 
enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have 
1 YEAR 

SINCE INCEPTION AS OF 6/30/00 
5 YEARS 
6/30/00 
4'29/94

two ways to seek out performance opportunities­
,.. , helping to make your investments work twice as hard. 
··I:=:=:=·=:-·:::· .·?:::.:·-:-:,::·.--::,~ .,,,.,. 
••·••· ,..,. 


This approach also allows Combine this team approach with our low expenses 
us to adapt our investments and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart fr9m 
to different market the competition. Call and find out how TIAA-CREF 
conditions, which is can work for you today and tomorrow. 
especially important during 
volatile economic times 

ii 
Ensuring the future 
1.800.842.2776 
for those who shape it.'" 
www. ti aa-cref.org
---------------------~--­
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. 1. TIAA-CREF expenses reflect the waiver of a portion of the Funds' investment management lees, guaranteed until July 1, 2003. 2. Source: Morningstar, Inc. 6/30/00, tracking 939 average large-cap growth annuity funds. 3. Due to current rnarket volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The investment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have inve,ted will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their origin;if price upon redemption. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
eae,ead-
LO"WEST RATES IN MICHIANA 
-,,. CLEAN CARS AND VANS 
_,,.  LOW FLAT RATES TO O'HARE &  MIDWAY  
_,,.  RESERVATION ACCEPTED BY PHONE OR AT  
WWW.CITYCAB-SB.COM  

CALL YOUR FRIENDLY TEAM AT 
L~~Ltl!Ll! 
Z4 BOUR SERVICE 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
ATHENS, GREECE 
INFORM'ATION ftfEETING 
With Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director International Study Programs And Returning Students 
Tuesday, September 12, 2000 
4:45 PM 210 DeBartolo 

Monday, September l I, 2000 

Firmwide Information Session for Juniors and Seniors Thursday, September 14, 2000 Center for Continuing Education, The Auditorium 6:00 pm -8:00 pm 
Career Forum 

September 21 -22, 2000 Mendoza College of Business 9:30 am -3:30 pm 
Equities Divisional Information Session 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 Alumni Senior Club 6:30 pm -8:30 pm 
Investment Management Divisional Information Session 
Wednesday, October 11, 2000 Center for Continuing Education, Room 210 6:00 pm -8:00 pm 

MINDS. WIDE OPEN!;!M www.gs.com 

Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws.© 2000 Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

Monday, September 11, 2000 

The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Gripes fuel election of new legislature in Hong Kong 
+ Voters unhappy with unpopular leader, lack of full democracy 
Associated Press 
IIONG KONG 
Amid gripPs aboul llong Kong's unpopular IPadPr and Lhr lack ol' full democracy hen1, voters and special inter­osl.s choso a new legislature Sundav that critics sav will be unduly dominated ·by pro­Beijing forces and big busi­
nnss. 
Chinf' Exen1tive Tung Choe­lnva wasn't even on the ballot but rnnH' undPr harsh attack from voters who accuse him of bungling thP governance ()f llong Kong in the three years sincn il returned from British to Chinese sovNeignly. 

Ordinary citizens were able to vote for just 24 of the 60 Legislative Council spats Sunday. 
SpeciaJ interest. groups ­such as business leaders, lawyers and doctors-picked 30 candidates. 
Six were selected by a com­mi ttoe in a convoluted arrangement that opponents say ensures control by pro­Beijing figures and business interests. 
In the public balloting, final res,ults had beon reported by three of Hong Kong's five dis­tricts by Monday morning. Pro-democracy candidates took eight of 1 ;-3 seats that wern directly elected, with five going to Hong Kong's tup pro­
Beijing party.  
Final  results  were  noL  
expected  until  sometime  
Monday afternoon.  

Exit polling conducted for tfllevision ATV showed pro-democracy candidates were expected to win two-thirds of the 24 public-chosen seats. 
The special interest groups. meanwhile, came down squarely in favor of the pro­Beijing and business candi­dates. 
Only four of' the candidates chosen by the special interests are seen as firm supporters of more democracy, although a few winners are little-known newcomers whose alliances aren't yet clear. 
Voter turnout rame to just 
43.6 percent Sunday. com­pared with 53.3 percent two years ago. 
Some experts say dissatis­faction with Tung's job perfor­mance -and too much cam­paign mudslinging -turned off many of the 3.05 million voters. 
The end result will be a situ­ation where lhe political oppo­sition can do little more than 

use the Legislative Council as a small group of protesters led a platform to clamor for more by longshot candidate Leung democracy and intensify their Kwok-hung were chanting attacks on Tung's government. "Down with Tung." One sat in "It's certainly undemocratic front of the polling place to 
and unfair,"  scream  anti­ 
said Martin Lee, the  'The gap between the  Tung slogans. setting off a  
opposition Democratic Party boss, w h u  rich and the poor has widened. Our wages haven't gone up. "  minor scuffle as police moved her back.  
appeared to·  Tung, visiting  
have won re-election. " T h e  Chan Tai-man Hong Kong construction worker  a vote-count­ing center early Monday,  

social 

undercur­rent is very bad," said one voter, Jimmy Leung, a 62­year-old retired restaurateur. Ile said many inUuential Hong Kong people were going against their consciences to curry favor with China. "They've become pro-Beijing imperialists," he said. 
Tung voted in a park where 

was asked if his low popu­larity had discouraged people_ 
"There's not just one reason, but we will study it," Tung said. Noting Hong Kong's first direct legislative elections were held in 1991, Tung pre­dicted "the voters will learn from their experience and I think our political system will gradually become more mature." 
Hong Kong's economy is showing double-digit growth, but numerous citizens feel left behind and they blame an alleged collusion between gov­ernment and business_ 
"The gap between the rich and the poor has widened." said construrtion worker Chan Tai-man. "Our wages haven't gone up. I hope to vote in some voices of opposition." 
"My son and daughter are worried about the security of their jobs." said housewife Poon Hau-mei. "We used to go out everv weekend. but we don't g<> out much now because we're alwavs worried about their jobs." · 

-VVALL STREET FORUJ.VI 
September 13, 2000 
Presentations specifically targeted to: 
Sophomore and Junior Business Srudenes All Non-Business 11,,fa.fors 
These presentations will be in: Hesburgh Center-Across :Crom t:he lVIendoza College of' Business RoomC100 
3:00p:an ­ 6:00pm Overvie­ &  Practical Sessions  
Overview Of Investment Banking Overview of Asset ]\.,fanagement Overview of Technology in Financial Services Overviev., of Commercial Banking  ~illiam Blair Not:re Dame lnvest:ment OtTice JVlorningstar Fifth Third Bank  
Break  
Presentation & Writing Skills Interviewing SkiI Is  Goldman Sachs Salon:aon Smith Barney  

Presentations specifically targeted t:o: 
11,,fBA Srudenrs & Senior Finance Seudenrs 
These presentations will be in: Jordan Auditorium 
3:00pm -6:00pm Overvie-.w & Practical Sessions 
SaJes & TTading Lehman Brothers Corporate Finance and Mergers & 
Acquisitions Credit Suisse First Boston Asset Managemc.;nt & :E"rivate Equity Fidelity Commercial Banking LaSalle Bank 
Break 

Interviewing Skills lv.lerrill Lynch Middle Market vs. Bulge Bracket Investment Banks Robert W. Baird 
ALL STUDENTS 
6:00pm. -8:00pm l:ndividual Company Breakout Sessions 
Pizza & Beverages vvill be provided Business At:"tire 


----------------------------------------------------------~---------­
VIEWPOINT 
page JO OBSERVER Monday, September 11, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. (fox Q, Norre D,m,c, IN 465% 024 South Llirung H,11. No11c D,mc. IN 4(>~'.i(, 
Fans react to ND-Nebraska 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
.-~~~:"":"':~=::---.E r---:::::~~~:::::-:::---1 
NOW SIGN THIS B THIS IS A £ 

~ 
501"\EDAY I'M

AND THIS AND 
@ MURDER 
GOING TO TAK£

THIS. 
~ CONFESSION.
i A GOOD LOOK AT ~ THAT FILE. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ hate sports as rabidly as a person who loves sports hates common sense. " 
H. L. Mencken writer 
EDITOR IN CttlH Mike Connolly 

MANt\CING Et,rroR BUSINESS Mt\Nt\CF.R Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
ASST. MANACING EmToR OPERATIONS MANAGER Chmtinc Kraly Brian Kcssle1 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: LiL1 IlaL1ghcy SPORl'S EDITOR: Kerry Snuth Scr:NE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAJNT MAIIY's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PIIOTO EDITOR: Eliiaheih Lmg 
AllVl:RTISIN{; MANACER: Pat Peters AP DESIGN MANAt;ER: Chris Avila SVSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mik,· Cunvilk Wl'.R AllM!NISTllATOR: Adi!m Turner CONTROLLER: Hoh Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cudlu 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGl!RIGENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX....................... . ...................631-6927 AllVERTISING...................................63 J-6900/8840 
obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN C:IIIEF.. .. ...........................631-4542 MANAGING El>ITOR/AsST. ME. ................... 631.4541 Ill/SINESS 0FFICE........................................63l-53JJ NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.. ...............................................631-5303 observer .viewpoinc. J@nd.edu Srrnns .......................................................631.4543 observer.spons. J@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at hirp:llobsrrver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and hreaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movic.s/music for

weather for up•IO•the 
weekly student reviews

mmurc forecasts 
o nline n:atures for spe­

advertise: for policies 
cial campus coverage 

and rates of prim ads 
about The: Observer

archives m search for 
to meet the editors md

articles published after 
August 199') 
staff 

POLICIES 
1·hc ( )b,erver is 1he indc:pendem, daily newspaper puhlishtxl in prim and online by the studems ofthe University of Norre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Edimrial conrent, including advenisc:mcms, is IH>t governed hy policies of the administracion ofeicher insticurion. The Observer reserves 1he righ1 co refuse at!vcrrisemcnts hased on conrem. 
The news is reported as accuracely and objectively as possible. Unsigned «licorials represent che opinion of rhe majority of 1hc Editor in Chief, Man.iging Editor, Assistant Man;iging Edimr and department editors. ( '.ommcnwries, lc1ccrs and columns present the views of 1hr .iurhors and nm nrcc:ssarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free cx1iression ofall opinions 1hrot1gh letters is encouraged. Leners co 1hc Edi1or must be signed and must include co111;1cr informarion. 
Qumirms rtittrd,,,g ObJmlt'T p,ilidts Jhoufd be dimt­,.,/ ,o f.i:iitor m ChicfMih Connolly. 
Ticket holders sold out to red 
Embarassed. llumiliaL<~d. Betrayed. No, I'm not feeling this way because Notre Dame lost to the University of Nebraska in football. In fact, I thought we played a decent game. l'rn focling this way thanks to certain people who call themselvtis "alumni" and "fans" of our University. 
Consider this: 4,000 tickets were made available to Nebraska fans for the football game. Call me crazy, but I eslimaiud -along with announcers during the game ­around 30,000 red shirts in the stands. Huw du 4,000 tickets become 30,000 tickets? I'll tell you. 
Two-faced alumni and fans. Those who sold out, literally, the very University they claim to Jove and support. Those who sold a game ticket for a few hundred dollars to a Nebraskan. Those who didn't care if they were wearing green with the rest of the Notre Dame faithful. The guy on the cor­ner asking $500 for the pair; the old man holding up two tickets at the tailgater; the young woman with the Notre Dame hat and the look of greed on her face. They sold out. 
Even selling to other Notre Dame alums or fans would have been better than selling to red shirts and Husker hats. They sold to the opponent just to make a few hundred bucks that will most likely go towards a new Lazy Susan they can show oIT at their next tailgate party. Was that worth it? Is this what we've come to? Making money at all costs? 
Maybe it's me, but Notre Dame stands for something. It stands for more than just f'oot­ball Saturdays. tailgate parties and winning a Championship. It stands for truth. It stands for loyalty and honor. It stands for respect. It stands for the backbone of everything that is great about college academics and athletics. 
By selling your tickets to I tusker fans, you robbed the University of the very tradition you claim to love and honor. You have decimated the true meaning of college athletics. And you have shown today's studenl'i that alumni at Notre Dame only care about the best way to make a buck. I am an alumnus. I am out­raged. And I will not accept that attitude. And neither will any sclt~respecting student or graduate. 
Take off your green hat, your Notre Oame shirt and put away the Irish flag. You have lost the right to call yourselves "alumni" and "fans." We lost to Nebraska. Maybe the num­ber of red shirts was a factor. Maybe it wasn't. But one thing is certain. You embarassed me. You embarassed the team. You embarassed the students. And you ernbarassed the University of Notre Dame on national televi­sion. 
I hopli that few hundred dollars buys you something nice. You earned it. 
Josh Quinn 
class of '96 September 9, 2000 

Lacking voice in decision 
I woke up this morning with a severe sore throat. Ewiry bone and muscle in my body is aching, but the one organ that hurts tlrn worst is probably my heart. 
Like all the football players on the field, the loyal students and I gave the game all we had on Saturday 
afternoon. The student body was as loud as ever among 
the overwhelming sea of red in our own house. We came up a little short against the 
number-one-ranked Cornhuskers, but that•is not really my source of bitter dis­appointment. Truly, 
I am proud of a team that fought so 
hard and I hope in their heart they know that they have done their 
The game is called college football. To me the word "college" is much more important than foot­ball, for when all the dust from the game settles, we are still the sons of Notre Dame. 
We are what matters in this insti­tution, yet in that last 67 seconds in the fourth quarter, I with many other students felt small. I am not a 

Thank team for hard work 
I wonder if some alumni have for­gotten the pride a Notre Dame stu­dent feels for those fellow students who wear our colors and choose to sacrilice and suffer in our Ladv's Holy Name. I know that after today, as long as I live, I shall never forget the pride I felt watching our football team do battle against Nebraska. As much as anyone, I prayed for victo­ry, but what I witnessed was a mountain of courage and fortitude, along with the incredible coaching of Bob Davie and his staff. If you love Notre Dame, the victory surely would have been ecstasy, but the pride and admiration for our team could have been no bigger. 
As someone who knows the game and grnw up around the game, I have witnessed first-hand the level of character necessary to overcome intense physical pain to play this game. ln that regard, it is unlike any other. Today, I stood throughout, admiring my fellow students, every one of them, as they overcame the long odds and the insensitivity dur­ing the last year of those who would call themselves Notre Dame fans. 

football coach who gets paid to guide a team to victory, so I cannot say if the decision to "rest" for (i 7 seconds makes pcrfoct rational sense in the coaching world. But as a student who shed a tear at tho end of the game, I can tell you this: I fop,) that my effort in the game was not appreciated. 
I sing the victory march over and over and maybe I'm stupid enough to bclinve in it. I havn seen magic happen in the Notrn Damo stadium. so I hoped that the last 67 seconds could once again turn into the embodiment of what the victory march is all about. To my utter dis­appointmnnt, I was told boldly by Coach Davie that we should replac:e the word "victory" at the very end with "overtime." 
Who knows what might have hap­pened either way it was called'? We might have fumbled or had a pass intercepted and returned for a touchdown in that 67 seconds. We'll never know. We didn't have much to lose, and at the same time. I felt that the student body had lost its voice, litnrally and liguratively. 
Mugimin Lukito graduate s1L1denr, University of Notre Dame September I0, 2000 
To coach this game you need a dynamic heart that is capable or deep empathy for your players, and the will to place no limits on the preparations necessary for success. If you know this gamn -I mean rnally know it -you recognize Bob Davie as one of its best, not for the fancy slogans and 50-0 wins over the bottom rung Division I tnams, but as a football coach who always puts our University and his players first. 
The hlmrtbreak for our guys who played today is t1m-fold what we feel, but rest assured my fellow Irish students, Battle, Boiman, Jones, Denman and the rest will be rnady once again next Saturday against Purdue. I guess if I had one wish for us in the week ahead, it would bn for each of us to take a moment when you sec one our guys on tlrn team and without any more than a touch on his shoulder, just say thanks. They earnod it. 
Kathleen Hoag 
junior, Pangborn Hall September I0, 2000 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Monday, September 11, 2000 BSERVER page 11 

As Hw millennium whirlrd by, my f'atlwr bPgan his 11th y1:ar as mayor of' my hometown: Canonsburg, 1'1mnsylvania. In th,~ spring of' 1999 he had completed the enormous two-year task of organizing an initiative that constructed a plaza and nrected a statur, of home­town inlPrnational singing personality l'erry Como. My father was looking l'orward to his own rn-PleC'.lion cam­paign next year for a fourth Wrm, a la FD!{, and he had organizt1d a commit­tee to plan our city's 200th birthday celebration in 2002. For him. lifo was busy and rt\Warding until ho suddenly passed away following spleen surgPry t>arly Friday morning of' \'!Pmorial Dav weck11nd. 
It was bditting that my father, a World \'\'ar II vewran, should pass awav on one• of' his f'avoritP WPPk­cmd~. Ile had carefully prnparod his speech ror the c:ouncil president to drliwr while lrn rocupm·atPd in the hospital. I le bdonged lo the "grnat­est gP1wration," one of thosn ordinary Americans who during his youth was called to savi-; democracy for our world. HP was one\ of those World War II veterans who arP c:urrnnlly dying at a raw of :n.ooo p<ir month. May 2000 was my fatlrnr's month. 
I havn oftcm thoug'hl about how f'or years the datn of our deaths quiPtly slips by unnoticed until it forever marks our passing. l'nwiously, tlw only May date or any signilicanc:e lo m1i was May 20th. marking my Notre Danw graduation. May had no meaning to me. Now May 2bth is a datli I will always despise. 
For me, lifn has changnd. Nothing has the importance or priority it once had, and I am no longer afraid to die. My f'athnr passP.d away peaeefully in his hospital bed the day af'ter his operation while I prepared to leave Washington to see him. The previous ~wening when I calbl him, lw had lil'tnd the phone and immediately hung up without speaking to me bncausl' he was in no rondition to talk. lie was the lirst of our immediate fami­ly born into this world and the first to d(-)part. lie was our l'amily Lrailblawr. 
l should havt1 sPen it coming. The previous Christmas was tlw best he ever enjoyed with a house l'ull of rela­tives -an old Italian myth says that your best Christmas is usually your last. Almost as a final goodbye. he spm1t Easter 2000 at my sistt,r's in Indianapolis, a holiday he ahvays spent at home. ,1\Jtrr serving as a lcctor on Palm Sunday. the priest gave me a huge palm with dozens of stems l'rom our cnrnmony -something that made me fet,l uncomfortable. Thn day bnforn the operation, my fathnr sounded too cheery on ttw phone. Just prior to his op!'ration, his very dose friend, a Protestant minister, prayt!cl with my brother and mothnr in thn hospital at 5 
a.m. -whill' my father had tPars in his eyes. 
I also know that his spirit is with us. The Saturday ol' tlw f'u1wral wePkend, rny dog awoke early with a long howl. My father had always lot him out several timPs before I aros<' l'rom bed. The week after the funeral. my mother had to investigate our garage door going up by itsPlf' alter a decade of nevrr opening. Hccently, when my mother and I round an envelope of several hundred dol­lars in my f'at.hnr's papers, I asked hor if he had forgotten about it or just squirrelt-,d it away. Be!i.m' shn answered. lhc window shade abruptly flew up. We had a hearty laugh that hn had spoknn t.o us. 

My father had been an educator. Just two weeks before his death, I was fortunate to accompany him to the unearthing of a time capsule at one of his former schools ... a capsule he helped bury 25 years ago. That Mother's Day weekend was my farewell weekend with him. We had planted [lowers along the wall. which he had admired the last two weeks of his life and he paid for the !lowers with his new debit ATM card. It was the first time he used it since I had pestered him just weeks before. Last fall, he made his farewell when he joined me at the White House where he recalled marching as a Boy Scout down Pennsylvania Avenue for President Roosevelt. 
My father was raised in an ethnically diversified immi­grant ghetto where tolerance and friendship were a way of life. He learned devotion to his country, his faith. his family and his community. His Italian immigrant parents taught him two things: that your honor lies in the good reputation of your family name and that education is the key to success. 
Education was not the only key to his success. Love for and loyalty to his neighbors were driving factors in a fierce friendship he extended to others. He spearheaded the Como statue project and visualized expanding recog­nition for another famous singer. Bobby Vinton, as well as other hometown personalities. In fact, in 1991, when Broadway actor Paul Binotto performed at Ford's Theater. my father arranged to go up on the very stage where John Wilkes Booth leapt from President Lincoln's box, to present a Canonsburg proclamation to one of her native sons. 
My father would have celebrated his 60th high school reunion this-year. He was loyal to his fellow classmates -like while on our tour in Rome, Italy, when he and I posed as doctors to enter a hospital to see a classmate who had broken her hip while visiting the Vatican. His friendship also extended to strangers like a man who fainted in an Italian cathedral during that same European visit. My father rushed over to help the man when I, along with others, simply stood by and watched. 
I le was able to re-trace his steps in Italy where he fought and visit his fallen comrades who were buried there. I recall him telling of the time during Word War II when he brought an old man. who was banished by his children, to a cold barn, back into the house where he set up the old man's bed next to a fireplace. Then my father established his Army observation post in that very room so that he could guarantee the old man's comfort. 
One thing that always intrigued me was tho circular srars located on the outside of my father's shins. He told me that that is where his army boots rubbPd during the war. lie was at peace with his war experience and never thought much of those scars or complained. 
It is relatively easy for me to be at peace with my father's passing. The timing, weather, participation and wondorful tributes lo him worn as though the weehnd had been ordained from above. Newspapers featured his picture in spreads that took a third of the front page. Our congressman, state, county and local officials visited the funeral home. Flowers were sent from 13obbv Vinton, the White House and many others. I now know liow Jackie Kennedy must have felt participating as well as planning each detail of the funeral proceedings ranging from the publication of the mass program to writing the eulogy to the complex details of the arrangement of the funeral procession. 
My father's procession closed our flag-lined main street while it extended for several blocks. It included 23 military veterans in uniform, 45 honorary current and former elected ofTicials that included the lieutenant gov­ernor of the state, 12 police officers in three police cars, eight firemen and a fire truck, an ambulance and street maintenance truck among dozens of automobiles. As a linal tribute, the hearse paused for a moment in front of the plaza he helped create at the municipal building. 
My father lived a rich and full life thanks to those who knew him. It's not difficult to know why so many said such kind comments. My father always made time for everyone: children and adults. men and women of every race or creed, those with important positions and titles; those who are passed by on the street as though never seen; those with doctorate degrees and those with handi­caps. If someone crossed his path, he had time to talk. 
I cannot recall how many times our family heard some­one say, "Dan Caruso was like a father to me." I cannot count the number of times that I personally heard people say that Dan Caruso was so energetic, did so much, had so much more to do -that he was a one-of-a-kind per­son who can never be replaced. Another person said that my father was liked by so many because "he never threw a stone in anyone's path." 
To me, there seems to be a thin line between politics, which tends to polarize people and public service, which separates politics from friendship. My father always tried to separate politics from parts of his life where he felt it did not belong. In fact, he felt so strongly about his Catholic faith that my father retired as a Eucharistic min­ister because he believed that his political standing might force a parishioner to feel uncomfortable when receiving communion from my father. 
I've always thought that Senator Ted Kennedy's remarks about his brother Robert described my father. Kennedy said, "He was a good and decent man. who saw wrong and tried to right it. Saw poverty and tried to cure it. Saw war and tried to stop it." 
My sister saved "Success" by Ralph Waldo Emerson and had planned to make a plaque for my father once he retired as mayor. It reads: 
"To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelli­gent people and affection of children; to earn the appre­ciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false friends; to appreciate beauty, to lind the best in others; to leave the world a bit better, whether by a healthy child, a garden patch or a redeemed social condition; to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded." 
I have asked others to join me in celebrating my father's life by passing his friendship onto others. by being as helpful. by showing loyalty and respect tooth­ers. Those are his greatest successes ... those arc the reasons why we in his family loved him. 
To those who called him husband, father. brother, Pap-l'ap, Mayor, boss. teammate, coach, colleague or Danny ... 
... He callr,d them "friend." 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is serving in President Clinton's administration as a congressional and public affairs director and is currently assisting Vice President Gore's White House Empowerment Commission. His col­umn appears every other Friday, and his e-mail address is I lottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
T E L 
I 0 N 
page 12 Monday, September 11, 2000 
A little closer 
to home 
On Fridav I wnnt out with mv f'rionds to so11w pla1:1;s (I am uncl,11· 21 1siw f'ifth anrnndnwntll. I gol horcd so I went to Os<·o drug sl<11·,, and hought sonw FahrPnlwil colog1w, somp FanniP May dwcolall' mints, a dcf·k of cards and somP bar-b-que pork rinds. I got tlw pork rinds hN·ausP som!' town styl<' fll'opl!' told m1• that thPy wl'rP dPlicious. I thought tlwy tastPd likl• clril'd up baron. Tlw !adv in Os!'o told nH' th a1.· thP, w1•n' tlw nl'W di1:t l'ad ... hmmm, rna~·IJf'. 
/\f'tN Paling Ill~' pod, rinds I was going LO walk hom1· lo 424 N. l·ran('('S St. But as I ,, alkPd b,· Tlw Linebachr Bur I saw an old guy al· tlw durnpstPr. I askPd him his 1uu1w and h<' said it was l{ay. I ask1id him ,,hat lw was doing, and lw said '11• was gPtting cans. It was his only _job. II<' did this <'v1•ry night. 
W<• kPpt talking and I d<icidPd to roll up my J. CrP,,.. s!PPv1•s and dig in. WP went th.rough <·ans for ahout an hour. I noticed his hands wPn' all cut up from brok1m glass. I gaVP him my box of' Fa1111iCT :Vlay mints (which WPl'f' $9 rntail value). 
Ill' said that lw usPd to work ronstruc­lion hut then lw f'Pll off a roof' and brokp his foot and thp~· fir<'d him shortly aftPr­wards. IIP had work1'd f'or tlw sanw com­pany for I:1 y.-ars. IIP must lrnvP bt\<'11 about i,0-Vl'ars old or morP bv now. So n,r1strurtfon is out of tlw piet.un· for good. 
llr• tuld llll' that Ill' gPIS :1:i t·Pnts )WI" pound of' f'.an-..; that lw coll1~!'.ts, which is abouL :~:i-40 ,·ans. IIP didn't know how manv IH• col!Pcl!'d on Llw ilV(\rawi hour, but i imaginP that it is about 70-80 on WPl'kP11Cl nights. I havl' no idea what he avPragPs on a \\'PPknight. 
It's 1'asv LO eut voursPlf in LIH' dark. And lw h·as plPnty of' rompPtition. 
At I.af'avdte thi;; w1iPknnd. the aftPr­party nwss was horrPndous. But by llll' 1wxt morning you couldn't find any cans. Them was plPnty of broken glass and pap<'r plaLPs and ddlated kiddy pools, but no cans. 
Now, I don't know all of tlw circurn­stanc1is surrounding his situation, but lw SP<•11wd likP a nicl' man. And I don't think hi' ('ould bP a drunk bum if' all you makP is 70 cents an hour. 
So whv doPs this nrnthir'! Well. I was thinking about peopll' who f'ight against/lrnvP problems \Vith sweatshops. /\ml it just st~Pnwd a little ironic to me Lim! pnoplP an• fighting for othPrs so far away, and ht•n~ is u guy, Huy, in our own town that makns similar wages to u sw!'atshop worknr and lw is cleaning up llw lwnr cans that you or I may have drank out of'. 
I think !'iotr<· Dame students could real­ly cliangn sonw livtis. All it would tako is maylw a couplP months of' rc'nt to gnt him an addr,•ss. a rouplP nicp outfits, and sonw mH:ouragPmrnl. Maybe I am think­ing wishfully, and I rnally don't know wlrnl kind of' options nrP out tlrnrt1 for him in rPgards to Tim Salvation /\rmy or a lwnwl<iss shPILPr, but I fonl that stu­dP11ts could makt• his life better. 
,1\nd if students aren't willing lo do that. th<' lnast pnoplP could do is to stop gelling kPgs and start using cans, and throwing tl11• cans out in tlw strPet when you arP don1• with tlrnrn. They won't be tlwn· long. 
The 11ic•ws expressC'd in this column are /hose of the cualwr and nol necessarily rlwsf' of The Obseri•er. 

NBC's 'West Wing' sweeps Emmys 
By OAv1D BAUDER 
Associ,ited Press Wrirer 
LOS ANGEi.ES 

In a Ian dslidc any politician would envy·, NBC's idealistic series about a White !louse staff in turmoil. "Tim West Wing," won a record­tying eight Emmy awards Sunday night. 
.James Ganrlolfini. the hulking mob boss on IIBO's "Tile Sopranos," ended the rlry spell for his show, which was n01ni· nated for 18 awards, by winning the best actor trophy. 
"I can't really Pxplain this. except thr academy mavbe has an affinity f'or slightly overweight bald mnn." Gandolfini said. 
The haul for "The West Wing" tiPd the prf'vious rncord of eight Em mys for a stirics in its firsl season Im l d bv "E H " a n d "II i11 Strnet l~lut1s." 
"There's going to b!' no living with me now," said series creator Aaron Sorkin. who vvon an Emmy for his writing. 
Michael J. Fox was a sentimental winner of' the best actor award for a 1·omPdy. Fox retired from his conrndv about a New York Citv inavoral office, "Spin City," after this sea­son bPcausP of Parkinson's disease. lie won th riw lwst actor tro­phie;; in a r O\\ in the 1980s for "Familv Tit1s." 
"Thanks. It's· been a great ridCT and stay tuned," Fox said, after recf'iving a standing ova· tion. 
Patricia Heaton, who plays the long-suffering wife of comedian Rav Homano on tlw CBS coni'­ed y, "Everybody Loves Havmond," won best actress in a comedy. It was her first award. 
Veteran actor Jack Lemmon. a llollywood favorite. drew a standing ovation won he won best actor in a miniseries or movie for "Oprah Winfrey Presents: Tuesdays With Morrie." 1-lis c'o-star, Ilank Azaria, also won an Emmy. and the show was 
honored  as  bnst  TV  
movie.  
'"A littl<'  bit of magic,"  

said L<'mmon, fighting back tnars as he paid tributn to his family: "This. what l do, is important. But you arc mv life." 
S<'la Ward was an upset winnnr in the best al'lr<•ss category in a drama for ABC's "Once and Again." She beat out two compet­ing charactnrs from "The Sopranos," Edie Fulco and Lorraine Bracco. 
Tim pre-show buzz was about the faceofl' betwe1rn "The Wl'st Wing" and "ThP Sopranos," the politicians against the mobsters. Both had 18 nominations. 
Hichard Schiff', who plays the grim aide Toby Ziegler, and Allison Jamrny. who portrays the White llouse·s tough press secretary, won sup· porting actor awards. Series creator /\aron Sorkin won for writing, and Thomas Schlamrne for directing. 
"I love every mern bcr of mv cast," Janney said. "This should be an ensem blc award and l sharo it with all of you." 
Janney paid tribute to fellow nominee Nancy Marchand. who played the sclH'ming matriarch Livia Soprano in thn IIBO srries. \-tarchand dind of lung cancer on June 18. Janney calli!d Marchand "exquisite, elegant." 
For thH third year in a row, David Letterman's "Late Show" won the award for bpst variety serios. It came during a vear Lntterman had· to take a break for an Pmcr­gency quintuple bypass operation in January. 
"Dave. if' you're watch­ing at home, it looks like the fake heart surgery paid off," said the slww·s executive producer, Hob Burnr.tt. 
IIBO's series about a B a l t i m o rt• in 11 e r · ci ty neighborhood, "The Corner," won three Emrnys, including out-


standing miniseries. 
Eddie Izzard won for both his performance and writing in his IIB0 spP­cial. "Eddie Izzard: Drnss to Kill." 
Two relatively 1rnw 
comedies, NBC's :.Will & Grace" and Fox's "Malcolm in thn Middle," wflre award winnPrs. 
Sean Hayes and Megan Mullally of "Will & Grace" won best supporting actor and actress. For both of' them. it was thnir first Emmy and gave the com­edy bragging rights as it moves to a high-prof'ilfl slot on '.'JBCs Thursday linnup this fall. 
Todd llolland wa.s salut­ed for directing "Malcolm in thn Middle," and thP sl10w·s writers also won 
Emmvs. 

Eddie Izzard won for both his performance and writing in his IIBO spe­cial, "Eddi<\ Izzard: l>rnss to Kill." 
Tlw two biggest tt.Jevi­sion cvnnts of' the past year -"Who Wants to Be a Millionairn" ancl "Survivor" -w1Hen'L competing Sunday. "Milliona.irn" was shunted off to the Daytime Emmys and "Survivor" missed the cutoff for nominations. 
!lost Garry Shandling did a "Survivor" takeoff in his opening segmnnt, though. and scvnral con­
lPsla11ts \\'ere in tlw audi· cnce. 
"I don't like this r<'alit\ t n I<' vision, I ha v<' to b;. honest," Shandling said. " I t h in k r e a I p<W pI " should not bt\ on tPln\'i­sion. It's for s1wcial pew­pie likB us, poopln who have trainnd and studied to appear to be real." 
Emmy watchers werp anxious to sen tlw impact of a changn in voting pro­cedures designed to widen tho voling pannl and make it younger. 
Instead of requiring AC a cl (l Ill y (I r T (d Cl V i si O n Arts & ScicncPs mnmlwrs to watch nominatBd shows in a hotel. thP acadf~lllY snnt out vidPo­tapes f'or votnrs to watch at home. 
As a result. it nearly quadruplncl the numlwr of people voting. 
Many actors. including .John Lithgow and David Schwimmor. worP gold ribbons in ,I silo\\ of' sup­port ror tlw Scn!Pll Actors Gu iId a 11 cl Anui r i('an Federation of' Tclnvision and l{adio /\rtists, who are involved in a strikr against tho advertising industry. 
Among nntworks, NBC was the loading nominoe with 95 bids. It was fol­lowed by II BO with 8(,. /\BC with (15. CBS with 42 and Fox with 2f,. 


NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, Sepremb<:r 1I, 2000 BSERVER Notre Dame vs. Nebraska 

PETE RICHARDSON/The Observer Nebraska middle linebacker Carlos Polk (No. 13) tips a first-quarter pass intended for Notre Dame tight end Dan O'Leary (No. 86) as Irish quarterback Arnaz Battle (No. 3) looks on in dismay. Nebraska's Joe Walker intercepted the pass. 
Irish stir legends but fall to 'Huskers in OT 
By TIM CASEY 
Assist.mt Sporrs Edicnr 
;\ sPason-Pnding injury to Grant Irons; a possiblt• s1•aso11-1•nding injury to Arnaz BattlP: a pPp rally ('rowel ol' nParly 
40.000: 1•nough brighl n'.d Nebraska paraplwrnalia lo mistakl' thP l lous1i that llorkrn· Built for a Cornhuskers· post­11ati11nal rhampionship gathering: two kiC'k n•lurns f'11r a touchdown in an ovPr­tinw thrillnr and sonw nP,v reasons for Irish fans to quPslion Bob Davin's d1'.ci­sio11-maki11g abilitiPs. 
.lust anothPr WPl'kPnd of NotrP Danw football. 
Tlw m1•morab!P llHPP-rlav stretch lw gan Fr i d a y nigIi t w itIi a ·fpw "0 h . babys" from Dirk Vitali' and PndPd on Sunday morning with a sad Davi!' a1111ou1ll'ing l1·011s will bP 11ut !"or till' rPmaindr>r or tlw snason and Balli!' may as wrll. 
In lwl\\l'.(\n, a J'outb,dl ganw wa.s play<'d. 
hir l'our quart1•rs and an ovnrlinw on Saturday. NotrP Damn and N11braska st.agt·d a rlassk affair Jl(lt S('l'n ,ll Noln\ llanw Stadiull! in a long tinw. 
NPbraska. tlw nation's top t,~am. r·srnpncl with a 27-24 victory and left an 


Special teams spark Notre Dame to contend against No. 1 team 
indeliblr mark on thr> Notre Dame Nation. 
"It may bf' as physical a game ,L'> J'vr Pvnr roac.hcd in." Davi<i said. "That's rnw of thP finest pfforts l'vP sren." 
Tlw dn!'ensc. a major concern heading into this fall. spearlwadnd Urn Irish l'or tlw second straight Saturday. They held thl' Cornhusknrs vaunted rushing attack to only 4.(, avPragc yards per carry. sarkrd llric Crouch thn•n times and intnrrnplPd onl' of tlll' junior's 15 pass aw•mpls. 
"Wr. hav11 a rrnw nwntalitv," said r.or­n<•rback Shant' W,ilton, whi, snarr.d his first earner interception in the third quartcr. "We try to get 11 h,tts around thr ball t•vcry limn. Evnry limn somronP touches the ball wn want them to pay for 
it... /\nd th<' mon• aggressiV<' unit gav1! the olfonse a chancr• to win thr game in reg­ulation. Tied al 21-21 with 1:07 remaining. the Irish were 70 yards away l'rom thP end zoDP. 210 l'ecl from pulling off the pro-
player of the game 
Julius Jones 
The .<wphomore tailback and kick returner threw the momentum squarely behind Notre Dame with his 100-yard rerurnfor a touchdown. 
gram's biggest upset in the last decadr. On first down, a passing play was called but aftcr seeing no open receivers, Battle scrambled and gained three yards. On second down. Battle ran a quartrrback draw for four yards. There was no third down. as the Irish ran out thA dork and settled for overtime. 
"That was totally my decision." Davie said. "I was not going to punt the football in that situation. !With Battle] being 3­l'or-15 and thr. fact they [Nebraska! blorkPd sevrn punts last year. we made thP right decision. I thought we had beronw the stronger football team at the end oftlrn game." 
Notre Dame had the ball l'irst in the r>xl.ra session. Arter a Julius Jones two­yard gain up the middle, Battle rolled right. cut back and rushed for 15 yards and tlw first down al. tlw eight-yard lirrn. Three plays and five yards later. Nick Sctta's 29-yard lldd goal gave the Irish their first lead of the afternoon. 
The dPl'rnse once again played solid in ovntimn, yiAlding one yard on the first 
quote of the game 
"My guts are tom up inside. I'm not big on that moral victory stuff We 're Notre Dame. We poured our hearts and souls into this game. It's a shame we lost." 
Rocky Boiman Irish linebacker 

two Nebraska downs. But on third and nine from the 24. after a timeout, Crouch completed a pass to tight end Tracey Wistrom for the first down. 
"I thought they'd run the quarterback draw or the option [on third down] to put themselves in position for a field goal." Davie said. "If I had to do it over again, I'd be in man coverage. If we vvere in man. they would have had to make a great throw." 
On second and goal from tl1P three. Crourh ran an option keeper left for a tourhdown, sealing the Nebraska victory. 
The Irish were unable to move the ball consistently against the Nebraska dPfense. Of its 12 o!Tensivr series, Notre Dame gained over 20 yards thrPe tinws and only once did thr,y use more than four minutes of game timr. 
But aided by Jones' I 00-yard kickoff return and Jopy Crtlwrall's 83-yard punt rnturn for touchdowns. Notre Dame hung in with the top-ranked team in the nation. 
That dor,sn·t make the loss any easier to take for the players. 
"My guts are torn up inside." line­backer Hocky Boiman said aftr,r the game. 'Tm not big on that moral vir-tory stuff. W1i're Notre Dame. We poured our hearts and soul into this game. It's a shame we lost." 
stat of the game 
317 return yards 

Notre Dame scored touch­downs on kickoff and punt returns that brought the Irish from I 4 down to the brink ofvictory. 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 11, 2000 
report card 
8-
quarterbacks: Battle did well on the ground as Notre Dame's leading ruslwr but was ineffective on passes and thrPW an interreption. 
B-
running backs: It·s not a good sign 
wlwn your quarterback guins twice 
as many yards rushing as any run­ning bac'.k. They put up a dPccnt avt•raKn of' 4.6 yards per carry. 
receivers: SPvPral passPs slid Lhrough
8-
tlw hands of' nicpivcrs. proving a big 
diffpn•nrP in lhP game. Holloway 
pull!·d down a long one l'or 2:i yards. 
B 
offensive line: Nnbra.ska got through Lo sack Batt!,~ twice. Other protPrtion was good throughout the game. 
defensive line: Against one of the 
A 
most imprnssive offensivt> lines in 
ttw nation. Notre Dame's d<•frmsivc• 
A-
lirw stood strong and pffectivPly lim­iLPd NPLraska's yardage. linebackers: Evnn without Irons. this was n strnngth f'or th_t' Irish, with sarks bv l>l'nrnan and Boiman. Thl'y 
didn't tire dc1spilP playing 1warly th;. 
('lllirt' ganH~. 

B+ 
defensive backs: DrivPr again was hug,·. and Walton slPppPd up with an intPrn'ption and SPVPn (a!'klPs. ThP 
pass inli•rfcrPn<·t• pPn,tlty hurt. 
special teams: Ou Lstanding..lonP-s 
A+ 
lurrwcl tlw ganlf' with his I00-yard 
kirkolT rPturn !'or a Tll. \\'hilr• 
(;Pllwrall rais1•d tlw bar with his 83­yard TD rPt urn. SPCta was pPrf<'ct. 
B+ 
coaching: I>avir• prPparPd tlw LPam WPII f'or tlw No. I l<'am in tlw nation. IIP sho\\'Pd a lack or conlic!Pnce by 
not c·alling a tinwout in tlw linal minulr• and going for thP win. 
overall: Tlw Irish played Car 
lwyond PXpPctaLions. Tlw 
dPfonsP and special tnam
3.26 
WPrl' PXCl'ptional. 
adding up the nulllbers 
yards on Jones' kickoff return, Noire Dame's 

100
longest since 1993. 

1988 
the last time an opponent 
returned a punt for a touchdown against Nebraska before Saturday 
number of Notre Dame quarter-
o 
backs with collegiate experi­ence able to play, after Battle's broken wrist. 

15 
number of passes Battle attempted. 
number of passes Battle com­
3 
pleled. 

number of games Notre Dame has won in overtime, out of three 
number of kickoll return 

204 
yards, the most since 1922. 

on the clock
1:07 time left 

when the Irish gained possesion of the ball in the fourth quarter 
INSIGHT 

It was almost a fairy tale. 
It was almost a game that Irish fans would tuck away in their memories as a great moment in Notre Dame football to recount years later. 
It was almost a legendary story that had all the implica­tions of David and Goliath. 
Almost. But fairy tales have happy end­


ings. and for the Kerry Smith Irish, the 27-24 overtime loss to 
No. 1 Nebraska Sports Editor didn't quite make the cut. Yet regardless of the score. the Irish showed they are capable of a high level of play. What they lacked in skill they made up for in emotion. The team that stepped on the field Saturday was not last sea­son's 5-7 squad. It was a squad starved for recog­nition. a team oul lo earn some respect. a team that believed from the opening series that they were equal to the nation's top-rated squatl. "I don't think there was anyone on our sidelines that didn't think we would win the game," said Irish head coach Bob Davie. "I never felt 
one time from that point on that 
Wf1 would not win that football game. And our players folt thf1 same way." 

Saturday's Irish squad took tough hits, backed themselves into corners and fought their way out of them. 
When it looked like the 'HuskP-rs were steadily pulling away with running back Dan Alexander's rushing touchdown to make the score 21-7 ·in the third quarter. Julius Jones turned around and took the ball 100 yards on the very next play to keep the score close and his teammates fired up. 
When the 'Huskers looked head­ed for the end zone again late in the third. with quarterback Eric Crouch leading his team to three first-downs on long-yard plays, Irish cornerback Shane Walton stepped up and picked off a pass intended for full back Judd Davies to quell the 'Husker assault. 
When Irish quarterback Arnaz Battle and the offensive line were unable to generate any points to tie the score late in the game, Joey Getherall came to the rescue. mak­ing an 83-yard punt return to send the game into overtime 21-21. 
And while the scoreboard reflect­ed a notch in the loss column, the Irish made huge strides to winning back even the most hardened hearts of fair weather fans. 
But Davie and company know that's just not enough. 

Anticipating Nebraska's trip to South Bend last week Bob Davie paid tribute tlrn CornhuskPr jug­gernaut about to roll through town. 
"If you want to raise the bar as a football team, you raise that bar by comparing yourself to Nebraska," Davie said. 
After Saturday's game. the Irish had reason enough to smile -they took the national-champion favorite down to the wire and almost staged their. biggest upsct of the decade. 
They could have been happy with their progress from last season, but they were not. 
"l know it's a bottom line situa­tion -we didn't win that football game today." Davie said. "So there was no talk in that locker room about 'boy guys we were dose and what a great effort'. Bottom line: we didn't win and that's all that matters." 
No more settling fo~ less than tho best. No more whining about things that could have been. 
No more excuses. 
Did you catch that? Someone just raised the bar. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those. of The Observer. 
--------------~---------­
Monday, September I I, 2000 The Oburver . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Special teams unit spearheads Irish offense 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Wrner 
Hntircd Buffalo Bills Im a d c· D a c h M a r v L r, v y . long railed the father of srrncial teams. often said that his baby constituted 
one-third  of  a  football  
gamP  
·  Ol'f'cns<'  and  defense  

w f' re i m po r I it n t . bu t no t mor(' than spr.cial trams. 
Cy 11 iC's l'. hi U(\ d L nVy for ovnrPslimating thP impor­t.anc1• of a unit that graced tlw f'icld only in kirking situations. 
The 80.2:·Vi! that wit­i1PSSl'd thc heart-stopping rlash bl'twcr.n Notre Dami' and Nebraska would havP dPPnwd Lf'vv's nstimatPs of' spAr,ial l<'ams' impact f1tr too con­srrvativc. 
With an o{'f'pnsc strug­gling mightily and a courag1•ous defense doing all iL could to wnather a CornhuskPr storm. it Io o lui d as i {' the hi g Ii l y antiripatl'd cl11sh betwPen two of historv·s most sto­riPd proi.(ram·s might turn into u blowout. 
InstPad tlw Irish struck not oncP but twic.r with lightning of' thrir own. turning a potPntial dud i11t11 a ··can you top this ganw" f'or lh1• agPs. 
Thi• Irish rl'lurn tParn play1•d likl' a squad on a rn is s i11 n . w h il1• • 11 u s k<' r r1iv1•rag,. units lookrd lost. 
Down 2 l -7 af'lPr running bark Dan .\!PxandPr's 28­~·ard touchdown scamper, it lookl'd as if luck had run out for Notn• DamP. 
Tlwn it happl'n<'d. 
SII p h o m o r ,, t a iI b a c k Julius .lonPs took a kickoff al tlw goal lin1' and raced up thP l<'ft sideline towards a student bodv that was all too apprecia·­tive or his efforts. 
Jones· burst not only left '(luskrcr coverage men S!\arching !'or answers, but it altered thr game's momentum. 
Notrn Dame head coach 
Bob Davie well under­stood the importance of his special teams units. 
"That !Jones· return! 
-

was a huge play," Davie said. ''That play got our momenlum back and I don't t.hink there was a player on our sideline who didn't think we would \Vin that game." 
Still down 21-14. the Irish nei>ded still more special teams magic to nvnn the score with NPbraska 
,\ftcr being much maligned for the better 
-

part of last year. the Irish return teams packed an explosive punch against the 'Huskers. · 
After a diving 13rock Williams batted away an Eric Crouch toss, Nt>braska was forced to punt. 
If Julius Jones is fast, Junv GethPrall is a burn­er. l'he pint-sized rcr,eiver gathen1d thP. punt at his own 17. then cut to his right. 
Al'tPr it appearPd hP was hcrnmcd in at midfield, GPth<'rall eluded the chase. cut back and sent thP stadium into a state of delirium. 
"We havP two outstand­ing rPturrwrs." said Davie in what might have bPP.n 1hr, day's biggnst under­
statPmr>nt. 
Not1·p DamP's potPni rPturn gamP brought Nebraska to its knnrs, rPduring its proud head coach Frank Solich to a tirrd man looking for solutions. 
'"That is an arPa !special tPamsl that WP an, going to hav"P to address," Solich said. "\Vp need to get much better. We will take a very strong look at how we roach special teams. You gotta play in all three areas -offense, defense and special tAams. And we need to improve in one of them big time." 
"We put a lot or work into our sideline ki,koff returns." said Davie 

scoring summary & stats 
ESPN/'-JJAToday poll
AP poll 

scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th OT Total 
scoring 

summary 
J/:/am. record 
points
, 
team record points Notre Dame 0 7 1 1 3 24 Nebraska 2-0 1,740 Nebraska 1 7 7 0 7 27 
1 . Kebraska 2-0 1,461
1st 

2 Fll!rlila.$bite . 2..0 1,415
2 Florida State 2·0 1,720 
team statistics ND NU 
/\'II -1:16 


3 ·Mt \2•0· 1,336
3 Michigan 2~0 1,590 
Crouch 62-yd. run

first downs 11 20
4 Wisconsin 2•0 1,437 
Brown kick, 7-0 4 >Fl 2•0 1,241
e,5···

rushes-yards 40-184 59-274 
·2~0 1,165

5 Texas 1•0 1;427 
2nd 1~0
6 Florida · <2,D 1,316 passing-yards 40 103 
··'.;]' m31< 
N/J -10:44 '2',1i 1;124•··· Fisher 2-yd. run a< 2•0 1,113 
7 Kansas State 2-0 1,368 comp-att-int 15-3-1 15-7-1 
8 Virginia Tech 2"0 1,252 kickoff return yards 204 45 
Settakick, 7-7 g jc;o 916.
g Washington 2.0 1;200. punt return yards 113 16 
N/1 -2:24 
. 2~0

10 Southern California 2~0 1,040 1-0 1-0 
Crouch 1-yd. run 10 875
Jumbles-lost 

Brown kick. 14·7 l1 2•0 842
11 Tennessee HJ 961 
penalties-yards 7-65 6-44 
12 2·0 797
12 Miami {Fla.) 1•1 894 

23:54 36:06

time ofpossession 
3rd 13 M 707 14 UCLA 2•0. 830 individual statistics 
13 Purdue 2,0 884 
NII· S:47 .14 . fitialilJ{Fi•.. 1·1 669 
Alexander 28•yd. run 15 Ohio Stativ··. 2-0 597
15 Alabama 1-1 800 passing 
Brown kick, 21-7 

16 Clem~on ·' •··· ~~o 572
NIJ -8:30

16 Clemson 2-0 789 NU -Crouch 15-7•1 
Jones 100-yd. kickotf 17 UCLA 2~0 564
17 Ohio State 2·0 688 
ND -Battle 15·3·1 18 Oklahoma 2·0 552 
return 18 Oll:lahoma ·· 241 469 
Sella kick. 21-14 

19 2-0. 433
19 Illinois 2~0 494 rushing 
20 •. 1~0 326
20 TCU 1·0 430 ND -Battle 14-107, Jones 15-52, Ffsher6-11, Howard 2-6 
4th 

·21 '1'•0 321
21 NOTRE DAME 1;1 301 
NU. Alexander 24-112, Crouch 16-80, Buckhalter 9-43, Miller 6· 
NIJ · 12:48

22 Michigan State .. ,,1.0.., ZSP .. 
Gatherall 83-yd. punt ~13 i ' I ..
17 
return

23 Georgia 14 261 
·<>16~•••• /:;;'d::
receivinq 

Sella kick, 21-21 ··115
24 Auburn 2,0 193 
u,

25 Southern Mississippi 0~1. 130 ND -Holloway 1-25, Givens 1·9, Howard, 1·6 
Overtime

NU -Davison 2-29, Wistrom 2-26, Newcombe 1-36, Buckhalter 
.'\:-'.'_. . :· 

ND t!ptes.-.southern
other teams receiving uvtes: Colorado Slate 1-9 
Sella 29-yd. field goal, 

24-21 l.8J,rtlss.lssippt State 44, 52, Mississippi Slate 45, Toledp 34, LSU 14, 
122, South Carolina 72. Missinippi 54, Oregon Slate leadin_g tackles 
Nl•' ,rl<iJ11.s,S19, Air Force 17. · ND -Denman 13, Driver 10, Boiman 9 
Crouch 7-yd. run, 27-24 

NU -Shanie 7, Stella 6, Polk 6, Kaiser 6 
O
THE Notre Dame vs. Nebraska BSERVER Monday, September 11, 2000 
-



Nolrl' Damn movnd to 1-1 on llrn spason in a lwartbrPaking loss 
Saturday to top-rankPd NPbraska at honw. Tlw w1dl-prPparl'd Irish rcliPd on tlrnir spt\rial tnams unit for two touchdowns to knPp tlw scorn closP bel'orP losing in ovPrtimn 27-24. Tlw n'st of' llw sPason will gPt no easier !'or the Irish. as quarterback Arnaz Battle is sidP!i1wd indPlinitP­ly with a broken wrist and ddensive nnc'l (;rant Irons is out for the 
season with a shouldP-r injury. 

PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 

Nebraska's split end Matt Davison fights with Notre Dame's Brock Williams (1) and Ron Israel (5) for a loose ball after 'Husker quarterback Eric Crouch fumbled in the second quarter. Nebraska retained possession of the ball when it rolled out of bounds before any player could reach it. 

Monday, September 11, 2000 page 13 
Faculty art show reflects today's world 
By JACQUELINE BROW'DER 
As,ist,111t Scene [dim, 
Wlwll conjuring up adjcc­1in•s to dPscrilw the NotrP Dam(' f'acult\. words likn 11xp('ri1'nced. ·articulate and astut1• mav com<' to mind. Hut artistiraity talented'.' i\bsolutdy. 
This month. thP SnilP MusP11m of Ari pres11nts a I'm!'. public exhibit crnated uy th<' fur.ulty of' the Departn1cnt nf' !\rt. t\rt llistory. and Design showcasing the talf'nt and imaginaLinn of snveral NotrP Dame profossors. S1·lccLPd worb of Pmeriti fac­ulty ,tr'(' also included in Uw sh ;1 w. Th" 1' xhi bit I'(' atu r P s paintings. sculµturps and pholographs l'XlHf'Ssing a rommPntary 011 cont<'mporury Iii'<' and in(·lud<'S fur11itur1• t'rr>alncl from rncvr!tid matPri­a Is. \\Ood-l'ired ston1:,\ar<' and digital photography. 
The· show·s piecos are diVl'l'S<' and each is unique f'rom tlw n<'xt. Upon PntPring LhP l'Xhibit. an enormous strn,·turt• looms hel'nre thP visitor. filling most or tlrn spa­cious room. This rnuuntainous p:qwr and ca rd board st r11<· -Lurl', nppropriat(dy LitlPd "\fountain v\ aits". is u Lribuw !fl artist .\fortin Lnm \;guron·s 1101111• or \'iPtllalil. lip com­p IPl" s a n i111 fH P s s i v<' a n cl dominant stmh· Ill' thP moun­tains awaiting· his homecom­ing with only ink. papn and wood. 
Snm I I " r . b u t j u s t a s Py P ­catd1ing arc Maria Tomasula·s paintings. T~·piral La ti 11 -:\nwrican rc'1igious a rt. lwr ··pxaggPralPd visual dra­m a S 111 a g11 ify /I 11 d I'll SC th(' S!'Pming opµositt· of' s1:nsalf' 
1\XP<Ti•~nc,, and 111ystiea1 intu­
ition" and lrnVP an enigmatic: distinction about tlJ(rnJ. Hnr 
work employs highly stylized, bold colors and unusual sub­jects, causing the viewer to takP a second glance at her work. For examµle, one of Tomasula's paintings includes a bejeweled steak and anoth­er contains hummingbirds 
that have been silenced hy flowering \.ines. 
Associate professor Pdul Down's paintings were creat­ed as a protest to "increase efl'i<'iPncv and df'crease com­plexity ~f u hybrid electric powered (jet pumµJ propul­sion" for pPrsonal water­crafts. Down crealfls and showcases these more c11'fi­ci,, n t b o at e n gin e s u s in g vibrant colors and precise brushstrokes, causing his ,,.ork to appear multi-dimen­sional. 
Onr of the most interesting s1Hs in this Pxhibit is J11an Dibble's serir\s, "Tlw Lifo in Physics." Her work features gi,~nt imagPs of several dis­tinctiv!' sculptures surround­ed bv different mathematical laws, "oxpressions of thP understanding and conviction that human-made things reflect and am governed by tlw same universal laws as those PXprflssr.d in the ele­gant and complex diagrams and riquntion of physicists... Tlw photographs, combiner! with modern textbook physics. Pntwine two ordinar­ily unrr.lated subjects with sophistication and elegance. mnking "Physics·· one of the oxbibit's most inwrosting cul­lPciions. 
"Th<> Performance of 
P<' rf e c ti on·· s n r ies !'equi res 
thr spectator to takn a second 
and closnr !o()k at Hichartl 
Gray's exploration of human 
idcntit\. In "Pnrfection". face­
less, sexless. nut-of-focus 
bodies are f'rozen in time, 
striking different acrobatic 
poses, flanked by math­om a tical signs and encased in metal frames. Discussing his work, Down remarked that "identity has become a performance of perfec­tion ... overshadowing the reciprocal value of thf' human flaw." 
Austin Collins· comput­er graveyard, entitled "TECIII\JOPHILIA", is a reflection of societv's prevalent use of techn"ol­ogy. These "advances" have improved our li~e8, buL consequently are producing a plastic wasteland that will even­tually "bury the earth.,. Using conc:rete coffins l'illed with defunct CDs. computfir monitors and telephones. Collins' work leaves an ominous. yet introspective f'ffect on ttw viewer. 
The show highlights tile many talents or the Notre Dame faculty through the diversity o'r the piec<'s exhibited. Each artist's work dif­fers in content and styl<>, yet expresses a distinct idea about contemporary li!'e. This is an exhibit as interesting for its con­trasts as for its contents and is certainly ,vorth a visit. 
Notrn Dame boasts an oxtremelv tale1Hod facul-1 t,· and s·tudr>nts should go tlw Snite Museum and observP thf!ir vvork. for a chance to meet the artists and discuss their work, the Snite is hold­ing a reception on Friday. Sept. 12 form :'i-7 
p.m. in the museum, und is open to the public and free of charge. 


Professor Down's "Pictorial Detail Clarification" (above) and Dean Collins' "TECHNOPHILIA" (below) reflect contemporay life in the 21st century. 


Monday -Thr Prol'ist ·s Distinguished Women ·s recturer SeriPs: Julie Xelson. 118 Debartolo !fall. R p.m. -/Jeparlment nf Theology Lec/.ure: Fr. Dustaua Gutierre=.•HcKenna !/all. R p.m.  Tuesday -Story Time: "Where the 11'ild Things Are": Maurice Sendak, HammrJs l\"otre /Jame Bookstore. 8p.m.  Wednesday -Lecture: Angela Bourke, expert on Irish oral traditions, Hammes Notre !Jame Bookstore, i p.m. ~ The Prouist's Distinguished Women's Lecturer Series: Julie Nelson, 118 Debartolo Hall, 4 p.m.  Thursday -William Shakespeare's "As You Like It, performed by Actors from the London Stage, Washington Ha.fl, i:30 p.m. -Booksigning: "Legacy of Love," William Coughlan. Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, 7 p.m.  
Friday -!'ep llally. JACC. 6:30 p.m. -Booksir,ning. "Monk's Reflect­ions. A Vieu• from Notre !Jame," Father J:'du•ard A Malloy. Hammes Norn• !Jwnf' Bookstore. 4 -6 p.m. -iVilliam Shakespeare's "As You Uk(' It." performed by Actors from the f,ondon 5,tage. lVashinglon Hall, 7:30 p.m.  Saturday Sunday -Buoksigning, "Rudy's Insights for Winning Life," Rudy -Special Screeing: Black Orpheus. Directed by Marcel RuetUnger, !lammes Notre Dame Bookstore, 10:30 a.m. -Camus, Annenberg Auditorium. Snite Museum, 1:30 p.m 12:30 p.m. -William Shakespeare's "As You Like It," per.formed hy Actors.from the London Stage, Washington llall,,7:30 p.m.  

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 11, 2000 
Irish prove how good they are 
Tlwrn's not much mon' to say unit that went without starting about NotrP Danw forJtball. is widPout Javin llunter in the sec­lhcrc" Evt>ryo1w in llw collegP ond half because of an injury. football world spon l the la.sl Oh. and yuu know Arnaz ninP months asking r,ad1 other: Ratti<>. the starting quarterback "Starting off' who played the enlirc game'? lie with A&M 
apparently brok<' his wrist on and thr. offense's first play ol' the Nt'brnska? game. What arP thP The result of this game. just in Irish think­casP you stuye<l in tu watch lhat ing·; Do thny Michigan-Bowling Green 
.,,,,. 1t{'.tually thriller. was Nebraska coming think tlwv from behind in oyerlime tr, win. havP a sl;ot 27-24. al tlw Not bad for a bunch ol' guys
Ted Fox 

national who were pegged just another title'!" ovcrmalched opponont on a Apparently Cornhusker title ending in South
Fox Sports

th1~y did, and Florida at the Orange Bowl.
.1\/mosl

lhr.y still do. !lock, this team didn't oven 
The only dif-just give Nebraska a good game fprnnrP or all thPY could handle. now'? Thn nxp1H·ts ahm't rolling They s<:arcd l3ig Red. They 
tlrnir t'YPS anymore. intimidated Webster's definition 
This team didn't havo to say a of "intimidator." word or rely on sonrnone nlsn to But it doesn't stop there with rul sonrn b~l'aks l'or llrnm. a moral victory in Sl':ptember. 
They provPd to LhP entire For a good learn, il never does. country. one possf':ssion at a After the .l{ame. Battle said: "If time. that no one but the' guys we win the rest of our games. wearing the pads really know we'll have the opportunity to how much ht>art. dPsire. talent come back and play a quality and detPrmination lie beneath a team like Nebraska." jersey or behind a face mask. As of right now. it's very pos­
Th1>,y spotted Nebraska, every­sible that he could miss the rest body's all-everything team. a of the season because of that 21-7 third quarter lead before broken wrist. ripping apart the' llusker cov­I have to admit, when I first rrage units likr. they belonged heard that news. my spirits fell lo the San Jose Stale Spartans and 1 questioned whether this -Big Hr.d's week-one oppo­team could achieve its goals nent. with another new quarterback. 
These returns probably 1 'd be lying if I said all the doubt wouldn't havP meant a whole was gone. and I don't think I'm lot had the Irish defense not alone in feeling that way. been able Lo contain the vaunt­Bul that's the beauty of the ed rushing altack of lleisman­situation -the Irish have hopc~ful quartnrback Eric defined themselves in the public Crour.h and thr, · Huskers. eye by making many football 
True. Nebraska still did a fans look foolish. They did this solid job moving the ball after by defining themselves as play­they reached 21 points. but dur­ers and people who refused to ing regulation they didn't move accept the verdict of outsiders. it the only place that means I do think the odds are a little anything: across the goal line. morn unfavorable now. In the 
ThPn you throw in all that end, though, I still choose to other stuff, stuff that a confi­believe this team when they say dent team won't bring up as something great lies ahead of excuses for an overtime loss. them this season. 
First. LhP defonse: they made After all, they haven't given all those! second half stops, and any of us a reason to expect nearly an overtime stop. with­anything less. out captain Grant Irons and The opinions expressed in this while on the field for over 36 column are those of the author minutes ol' a (10 minute game. and not necessarily those of The 
Then there's the offense, a Observer 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 

Gannon rallies Raiders to win 
good," Colts coach Jim Mora to Andrn Hison set up a (1­
. Colts blow up said. "Ile had a lot or time yard scoring run by
after 21 point back there, ho's a good ath-Whnatlny that gavn thn 1e te, he Haid(1rs
opening lead 

scrambled t h o i r 
and w,i "You 'vp, got to give them first ll'ad Associatet! Press 
weron 't able credit, though. They with 41 to gPt him snconds
made the plays. But we
INOIANAPOUS down bef'orn ldt in Hich Gannon ·s instincts he hurt us." certainly helped." tlw third wnrn as quick as his feet. 
Gannon, q11artPr.The 34-year-old quarter­who has Wh(1at!Pv
Peyton Manning 
back, coming off' his first rushed for l 5 a I s ;>Pro Bowl appr,arnnce in 12 touchdowns Indianapolis quarterback scorPd years in the NFL. rushed t'or in his r.arecr, from tlw a career-high three touch­
was I 5-for-I on thP downs as Oakland overcame 
22 l'or 207 yards passing Haiders' first possnssion of u 21-0 deficit and b1~at the 
and carried 10 limns l'or 37 the final p1wiod.Indianapolis Colts :{8-31 yards. "Bich did a good job of' Sunday. 
Peyton Manning, who putting down the hall and 
"ft was hard to lrnar all threw touchdown passns to gr.tting somr. big yards for the protection calls." he Marcus Pollard and us," Haidors coach Jon said of the deaf'ening noise Edgerrin Jamt~s in the first Gruden said. "fin madn from the raucous RCA Dome half'. brought the Colts with­some good adjustments and 
crowd. "So we had to makB 

in seven with four minutes made some big plays.adjust-to go on a 50-"Wn shownd grnat conl'i­ments. yard comple­donce in our running and W e "ft was hard to hear all tion to Marvin passing in tlw sncond half." 
c n rn ­

the protection calls, so II a r r is o n . The Colts scornd on tlH'ir pleted 
Indianapolis got first three possessions,
we had to make adjust­
a cou­

the ball back when Manning complntodpif-~ of ments." after an I 4 straight passes a l'tci r b i g Oakland punt. missing on the first play of' 
pass ­

and the Colts tho game.
Rich Gannon

cs, and reached the 34 A I 0-yard pass to 
I think Oakland quarterback 

before a fourth-Harrison and a 15-yard run t h e y d own pass to by Edgnrrin .lames sot up a b e c -Harrison was intercepted by 13-yard completion to ame more worried about Tory James in the end zone Pollard f'or the first touch­our pass than our run." with a minute to go. down on the opening series. 
Big mistake by the Colts. Manning was 33-for-48 Continuing to use his tight 
"One of the touchdown 

for 367 yards -but just 8-ends as receivers, Manning runs was designed," Gannon 
f'or-18 for 129 yards in the passed 17 yards to Knn said. "But the other two just 
Colts' dismal second half. Dilger on lhe next posses­happened. I had to make 
"They came with a differ­sion, and thrne plays later last-minute decisions, and ent defonse and it took us a hit Dilger again for 5 yardsfortunately they were the 
little while to communicate before .lames ran thn final 6 right ones." 
at the line. We had a couple for tho touchdown. The three rushing touch­
of missed assignments," A 9-yard pass to Dilger. a downs were a record for a Manning said. "We really 10-yard completion to Raiders quarterback and did (feel a change of Harrison -a play the Colts the most by an opposing momentum). In the third successfully challenged 
quarterback against the 

quarter. we couldn't gel after it initially was ruled he Colts since Green Bay's 
much going. You've got to had trapped the ball -and Tobin Hote had three in 
give them credit, though. a roughing-tlrn-pass11r 1954. They made the plays. But penalty on the Haidnrs· Tyrone Wheatley also we certainly helped that by Hogan Upshaw hnlpnd tlw 
rushed for two TDs f'or the 

not executing." Colts lo th11 Oakland 10. Haiders {2-0). who scored 
The game-ending inter­Two plays latr.r, J anrns 24 points in the third quar­ception by James was his caught a 10-yard pass for ter, took a 38-24 lead on 
second of the game. Ile his second touchdown and a Wheatley·s second touch­returned an earlier theft 25 21-0 lead early in the sec­down midway through the 
yards in the third quarter to ond period.final period and held off the 
set up the third TD run by Gannon scored his l'irst Colts (1-1) in the closing 
Gannon. tying the game at touchdown on a 3-yard run minutes. 24. late in the second quarter Gannon had never rushed 
The Colts went three-and­and his second on a 7-yardfor more than one touch­
out on the next series, then carry on the lirst possessiondown in any game. 
a 34-yard pass from Gannon of thB third period."Our pass rush was not 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business <lay from 8 a.m. ro 3 \'·111. at th,· Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassificds is 3 p.m. Al dassificds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to c,lit all dassifie<ls for content without issuing refunds. 

TICKETS 
NEED 2 OR 3 PURDUE TICKETS ANY WORKS 634-1886 
WANTED NO FOOTBALL TKTS 289·9280 
SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 
VICTORY TKTS BUY"SELL'TRADE NO FOOTBALL 232-0964 www.victorytickets.com 
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 
ND FOOTBALL TtX WANTED A.M. · 232-2378 P M · 288-2726 
Help Please! Need 2 tickets for Purdue Call Kerry 4-3442 A.M. -232-2378 PM. -288-2726 
BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TIX. HOME & AWAY. (219) 289-8048 NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX NEEDED 
..Need 3 Purdue Tix ..!! 243-7865 
Need 4 Purdue Tickets Call Travis 319-241-1082 
Need GA's: 4 Stanford, 2AF, 2BC Chris 634-4751 Beelef1@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
B&B lodging in alumni home lor ND games. (219) 243-2628 or garytJ@mvillage.com 
2 BDRM APTS FOR 2000-01. ALSO LEASING FOR 2001-02 DAVE 291-2209 AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595 
That Pretty Place. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebuiy, 30 miles from campus . Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­9487. 
I have 5 bedrooms tor rent in my nicely-decorated private home tor Football weekends; less than 2 miles north of stadium, continental brkfst included. Many happy repeat customersl Call Kim 277-8340 
B&B rm avail. lg rm, dbl. bed wl own bath, mlns. to ND 631-9806 or 277-7696 
WANTED 
FOOSBALL. Looking for high level players. Call 257-4441 in evening. Ask for D. 
Ski & Beach trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call 1-800­SUNCHASE TODAY! 
SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER­EES needed for south side elemen­tary school, located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street $20.00 per soccer game; $16.00 per VB match to qualified refs. Call 291-4200 
SPRINGBREAK 2001 Hiring On-Campus Reps SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services America's #1 Student Tour Operator Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas, Europe, Florida 1-800-648·4849 www .gospringbreak.com 
looking for a babysitter in our home. Flex. hours. No Sundays. Please call 258-4115 
Looking for 10 enterprising students for part lime computer work. Earn up to $4,000/mo. 1-800-304·0414 Lv. Msg. 

show glamour fashions. No experi­
ence necessary. Glamour, 
P.O. Box 795, 
South Bend, IN 46624 

High quality kegerator. Bought in '98 for 1k. Asking $600 (can be split amongst roommates & later resold to underclassmen) 312-952-2540 leave v-mair.••• 
2 people needed to provide dependable child care tor church Bible study. Thursday ams 9-10:30 Own transportation preferred but will discuss. $15/person. Julie 44746. 
FOR SALE 

1 mile from ND in quiet neighbor­hood, 2 Bedroom very clean $69,500. Call (219) 264-4966 
87 Honda Civic 4dr sedan. manual, 174k. Near flawless condition. $2800. 44746. 
PERSONAL 
LOST IN EITHER LAFORTUNE OR NOH: wallet with credit cards and identification. If found, call Lori x3874 -REWARD IF FOUND 
SKYDIVE!! Training Students for 35 Years 1 Hour North of South Bend GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS. INC. 1-800-351-6617 
B Cruz, I red is for communists. Hat? 
Tim, I'm still a genius 
The best thing about being Catholic Is that all your sins are forgiven. 
Shannon has a stalker 
Too much lemonade ... 
Freshmen freshmen everywhere... LIKE IT A LOT 
Out before 3 AM!!I! 

----------------~ 
Monday, Septemebr 11, 2000 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 1S 
MILLENNIAL SERIES 
DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

GUSTAVO GUTIERREZ 
PUBLIC LECTURE: 
COLLOQUIUM: 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 
8:00 PM McKENNA HALL AUDITORIUM 
"THE ACTUALITY OF THE PREFERENTIAL OPTION FOR THE POOR" 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 
4:30 PM 131 DeBARTOLO HALL 
"THE CHURCH OF THE POOR: JOHN XXIII AND THE COUNCIL" 
THESE EVENTS ARE FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. 
I -I
I 
I 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September I I, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Pitching problems mounting for Sox 
Associated rrcss 
CLEVELAND 
James Baldwin missed two starts last month with a tired arm. And now the Chicago White Sox's 14-game winner is still hurting as the tirnm shoots for the playoffs. the latnst in a line of pitching problems for the AL Central leaders. 
Baldwin, ror.ked for four runs and eight hits in just 4 1/3 innings Friday night against the Cleveland Indians. returned to Chicago on Saturday to have his shoulder exa.mined by team 
physician  Dr.  James  
Boscardin.  
Baldwin  complained  of  

pain aJtl'r the short outing. 
"lie threw <)3 mph, but his velocity llPgan to drop in the f'if"lh inning. Obviously hP's still having some discom­fort." Chicago manager Jprry Manufll said Saturday, dis­cussing thr team's latest pitching setbacks. 
HelievPr Bill Simas was also sent home Saturday to hiw11 his sort> ellbow looked at. 
Tlw \-Vhitr Sox, who took an S-2 game lnad into Saturday's gamP against tlrn Indians. an• also without 10­

game winner Cal Eldred, who has been on the dis­abled list since July. 
Eldred has a stress frac­ture in his elbow and had a screw surgically inserted last week. 
Amazingly, Eldred hopes to throw on Wednesday tu see if there is any way he can still come back should the White Sox make the postsea­son. 
But now the availability of Baldwin and Simas is also unclear for the final three weeks of the season. 
"It's tough, another tough loss for us," Manuel said. 

Stanford 
continued from page 24 
struck outlet pass sped Warner, who crossed the ball toward the goal. Stanford bumbled the game away from there, promptly depositing the ball into its own net. A Cardinal play­er had tried to clear Warner's cross, but a teammate rejoining play deflected the ball past stunned Stanford keeper Carly Smolek. 
They didn't score the goal. but the Irish took the win. 
"Even though it was an own goal, it was a result of' pressure that we were putting on for most of' the game," Waldrum noted. 
The victory could prove costly for the Irish. Senior defender Kelly Lindsay left the game with an injury. Her status is uncertain. 
Anne Makinen was named the weekend's Offensive MVP. while Meotis Erikson, Wagner, and Warner joined her as Irish representatives on the all-tournament team. 

COlcLIGI MIGHT 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 9 PM -12 MIDNIGHT 
UMLIJ.\ITID B0-WLIMG 
$5 PER PEr:sON SHOES EXTRA 
Beacon Bowl -4210 Lincolnway W, South Bend 234 -4167 J 
Want to see the Irish beat the Boilermakers but don't have a ticket? Use FREE Observer Online classifieds to fill your ticket needs! 

THE
BSE 


Observer online classifieds are easy to post, easy to search and, best of all, completely free. While you're finding your tickets, be sure to check out all the Observer Sports, News,• Viewpoint and Scene articles on the Web. The Observer Online is your source for tickets to the big game and news about the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. 
.,___

Monday, September 30, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Last minute goal helps Engineers defeat Belles 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Sporr" \X.'ritn 
Tlw mati-h-up IJl'lv\'l'<'n tlw Saini ~lan ·s and tiH· Hos!'­l lulman I11s.til 11LC• ol' TPcirn()logy on Sundav was a light to tlw fin­ish. \\'ith .l{osl'-l lulman \\inning 
HJ. 

"WI' playnd grnat." Bell<'s roach .Jason Milligan said. "It's tlw best I·v<' s<'cn till' girls play all V<'ar." 
·1:lw Bt>ll<'s dominat<'d th!' ganw. controlling the· ball for thP duration. but camp away with a lwartbr<'aking loss. With two minutes n'nrnining in tlw scoreless contest, Bose-I Iulrnan f'roshman .lessic:a Farmer final!} sucrccd<\d in find in1-; Lh(! 1wl f'or tlrn l:ngirwPrs. putting thnm up ·r -0 to takP the win. 
"I thought. Hose was prnlty l'ortunatP," EnginPPrs lwad coach Grng Huark said. "\Vp had sophomore co-captain /'or thr !selles, led the team with 7 shots, whil<' sophomorn Lynn Taylor rrnd freshman StPphaniP Artnak W!'rP close: brihind with !'our l'ach. 
"I thought that WP had a rnally good gaml'," sPnior Laura Paulrn said. "We movrd Lhn ball 

----------------------------. to withstand a lot of w n 11 
YOU CAN KNOCK OUT THOSE "FRESHMEN 15!" 
HAVE WEIGHT WATCHERS COME TO YOU WITH OUR NEW ON CAMPUS PROGRAM. 
Yout supc:it-corwc:inient dteam dic:it from a natn(l you ttust is corning to Notte Dame! 

No complicatc:id counting! ~at pizza, fad-food ml!als­any food you ctavc:i & still losc:i wc:iight. 
G(lt a full sc:it of info-packed booklets, tons of easy recip<!s, plus specialiwd in-rmmting and onliM O;u°J)~\, suppott ftom ttaiMd Wc:iight Watchc:its staff. '----{ 
~. 
,,,.. ~ 


O~LY $]9 r:oR 7 w~~K~! 
Regi!:tBt today ovet thB phoM: 
1-~00-572-5727 
Vii:ll, i,fai:tetClltd and Dii:covet Qccepted. 

onc:impui:@ww-wmi.com 
:f) ~000 Weight ~ ..itcher, lnu:mational. Inc.. O\\ ner or Wl:IGHT WA rCI-IERS trademark. All righl!', re-.e1"\ ed.. 
prPssun' from thP a n d BnllPs. ;\ draw "ft was disappointing took a might hav<' bPnn lot or
that we lost when we 
morP fair. I thought shots.
outplayed the other
Saint Mary's was It was tlw bntlPr team." team." disap­Tlw Bcl10s WPrr point­prolil'ir on thr, i n g
Laura Paulen
of'f'PnsP. taking 24 t h a t shots and k(,r,ping Saint Mary's midfielder W 0 
the play in tlrn l!ngi1wPrs' zo1H' f'or most of tlw match. 
"Tlwir kP1:pcr was very good. buL ,..,.,. knpt shooting." Milligan said. "\VP hit f'VPry­lhing but 11('l." 
MPg Lyman. in hPr first snason in nPt for thl' linginr>rrs. stopp<'d 12 or thos1• 24 shots. Tia Kctpphahn. junior co-cap­tain. making hPr third start in goal for th!' l:lC'IIPs, stoppPd l O of' tlw Engin<'Prs' 1 '..J shots. Thr Brdl1)s rnadr two tram savPs in addition to tlw 1 Oby Kapphahn. 
"I thought Tia playPd wdl all m•PkPnd." Milligan said. 
Thi' r<•st ol' thn tram did l hP ir pa rt lo k<' 1' p Sa in t \fary's in tlw gamr'. :ind on the· ball. lll'athr•r \futh. a I o s t 
w h I' n we outplayod the other l<•am." 
The Bell<'s forc(1d 10 corner kicks whiln Hose look only one. The Bollos knpt control of the ball with short passes and con­trolled traps. 
"Our combination play work<'d really WPII." Milligan said. "It's tlw best l'vn ser,n it all ynar." 
Tho tight loss to Llw Enginnnrs was a far crv f'n11n Llw blow out thr Bolins sLiffornd at thn hands or the nationally-rankPd D1iPauw Tigers. The Belles allowed snven goals and werp shut m1t. The l'irst pnind was <'spcH·ially rough for tlw BPllrs as they gaVP up six goals in the first 4:i minutPs. 
"Of comsP \OU don't lih to losn." Milligan ·said "But playing against DcPauw 'v\'as a grPat expPrienc!' for us." 

liv<'ry time thr. Bolins would grnPrate some offense, the\ Tigr1rs would quir·kly roar to lif'r and shut them down. 
"Wn havpn't play"d a tParn that good," Milligan said. "Thoy had a grPat dl'frnsP. But I was happy with how \VI' playr-d." 
"I thought thr snrond hall' was well-playrd," Milligan said. "We settled down a bit. Our d1'cision­making was much better. Off­thP-ball movemrnt has 
improved." 
In llrn srcond hall, th1• Bel11•s fought back as co-captain Katy Robinson managi'd thrc0 shots. 
"I thought tlwy playPd hard to thP PIHi." said John CartPr. DePauw's !wad coach. "Thev nnver quit. They have good players and gn,at organization. We just playrd rnally wr.11 today. I look forward to playing with thPm in the f'uturc." 
Kapphahn stood b(•twP<'n tlJP posts f'nr tlw Briles. logging 1!i savl!S against :-Hl Tign shots. 
" I t hink th at t lir• D<' Pau w ga1110. gavP us a good idPa of' a lrVPI or play [hat \\'I' 1'/Lll strive to arhiPvc. and how f'ar \NI' 111~Pd to go," PaulPn said. "Now we 'n, looking ahPad to our confPrPnl'(' games. 
"I was 1\SJ)Pr·ially proud of' tlw Jadirs· attitudPs thrnugh th1• who!P WP!'kPnd:· Milligan said. "Thny lll'VPr got demn. \VP bf1liPVP in what WP ar1· doing. and when• WP arn going. \\'can' taking thr stPps WP 11P1'cl to gPt thrn•." 

LONDONPROG 

APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2001 AND SPRING 2002 
Tuesday, September 12, 2000 101 DeBartolo 6:30 pm 
ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME! 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 11, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Knight fired after violating zero-tolerance policy 
Associated Press 
lNl>IANAPOLIS 
Bob Knight's temper finally did him in. 
Knight was !ired Sunday for a "pattern of unacccpLablc helm.v­ior" at 
Indiana. 
ending thrce l.umulluou::. df'cadcs at a school whPni he was oni> of 
baskctball 's 
b1\st coach­
rs but also 
onn of its most volatiln. 
Univcrsity prcsidrnt Myl,~s Brand. who unnounn,d the !ir­ing at a 1wws conforf'm:e. called Knight "dl'liant and hostiJp" and ,;aid llw roach had shown a "cont.inund unwillingnnss" to work within guidr•linrs of' th1! athl1,lic dnpartnwnL 
Knight nlso violated thl' school's "zno-lo!Pranc1•" policy by grabbing a frpshman by tlw arm last Wf'Pk to lcrture him about manncrs aftPr thn stu­dnnt said. "Jlt'y. what's up. Knight'/" 
Tlw rnarh. famous for his rPd l loosiPrs swratn and blw• lan­guagi• as lw bellowPd at playPrs from tlw sidcline. was alrP<idv in troublP for a historv of' out­bursts at Indiana. w·hPrn he won thrPP national champi­onships. 
Th1i SIJ-ypar-old llall of' Fame coach was warrnid in May about his behavior alkr an investiga­tion into accusations he chokPd one of his players during prac­tice in 1111)7. an act caught on vid1\otapt>. 
But his conduct br!1·ame cvPn worsl'. Brand said. and lw had b1iP11 disr!'sp1ictf'ul to alumni and fail!'d to show up at certain communitv event-;. 
"flp did 'nol fulfill the promis­es Im gave me," Brand said. adding that Knight had the option of resigning but refused. 
Brand stress1•d that Knight',; run-in with 19-year-old Kent llarvev on Thursdav was not the oniv reason for the coach's dismissid. 
"If that was the only inslanr:c 


that took place you would not be here today." Brand told reporters. 
Knight held a news confer­ence Friday to explain his side of tlrn story. complete with a diagram on a blackboard and re-enactment of the encounter with assistant coach Mike Davis. 
Ilarvey. stepson of a Knight critic and former local talk radio show host. had addressed Lhe wach by his last name as they crossed paths at Assembly 1lall. a greeting Knight deomed disrP-spectfuI. 
ThP-coach said he didn·t curse at llarvny but did brir.11y hold his arm and lecturr. him about mannnrs. 
"I would have to be an absolutP moron -an absolute moron -with the things that havf1 brPn laid on nm to ~rah a kid in publ.ic, or curse at n kid in public. as apparently it's been said that I did." Knight said at tlrn linw. 
EvPn so. Brand notcd that 
Knight initiated physical contact 
and "the two had an uncomfort­
able exchange." 
"The angry contact with the student violates the spirit" of the zero-tolerance conduct poli-· cy initiated in May, Brand said. 
The search for a new coach will begin immediately and Brand said he did not yet have any candidates. Knight. who reportedly was in Canada, where he often goos hunting and fishing, will be paid for the final two fflars of his contract. 
The sr,hool president said he stood by his decision not to fire Knight in May and for instead instituting th0 conduct policy. r.,illing iL the "ethical and moral thing to do" because of Knight's contributions to the school. 
"! still belitwt1 we had lo give him onfl last chance," Brand said. "lie failed to live up Lo that. That was his decision. 
''His unaccPptable bPhavior not only continued since then but increased." 

Inrernarional Srudy Programs 2.10 Security Bldg. 
If Fr. Sorin's dream for "the Universify had really come "true we may now be known as the 
F1ghring French 
not The Figh ring Irish 
Discover The REAL rooTs of 'the Universire de Norre Dame du Lac by sTudying in 
FRANCE 
The Universify of No'tre Dame Program in 
ANGERS 
Information Session Tuesday, Sep"tember 12 4:45 
De Bart'olo 318 
Learn how the world works... 
Australia Belize 
China 
Ecuador England France Germany Ireland Israel Italy Niger Russia Spain 
U.S.A. ··?:.c 


{ifl!1/f' .·"""•-i1\r~-­

International Programs 
t32 ™Y:·<:ilitil Road 
Boston, MA 02215 
Besides his three NCAA cham­and coached the U.S. men's bas­pionships. Knight led the ketball team to the gold medal Hoosiers to 11 Big Ten lilies at the 1984 Los Angeles Games. 

NO 
CONTRACTS 
NO 
BILLS 
NO 
SURPRISES 
IT'S PREPAID 

CENTENNIAL EXPRESS, PREPAID WIRELESS SERVICE, FOR AS LOW AS 20¢ A MINUTE. 
If you're busy with school, work and your life, better catch the Express. Centennial Express prepaid wireless phone service. Call for as low as 20¢ a minute. You can call from anywhere to anywhere. Use your Express phone anyplace in the continental USA. 
With Centennial Express, you're always connected. You'll know what's happening and when it's happening. You're in control. No contracts, no deposit, no bills, no surprises. Simply because it's prepaid. Centennial Express prepaid wireless phone service from Centennial Wireless, your big area, small price, wireless phone company. 
Requires purchase of Express phone and ExpressTalk airtime card. Different levels of talktime may be purchased at any of our retail stores or participating authorized dealer. Your Express phone may be used anyplace in USA where service is available. An ExpressTalk airtime card must be added within 6 months of the last time you added airtime or your service will be terminated. See a Centennial representative for details. 
LEN IEJ\INIAL: 'e 
W I A E L E S s\__• 
Mon<lay, September 11, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish can't stay with Eagles in conference opener 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Writer 

for the second game in a row. the Irish men's soccer team showed flashes of brilliant play. but was unable to come up with a victory as the team dropped its Big East season opener 2-0 to the Eagles of Boston College. 
The Irish entered the game with r,onfidencc. having defeat­ed the Eagles 1-0 in their only meeting last season. The team also welcomed sophomore Erich Braun -last season's Big East Rookie of the Year and the lead­ing Irish scorer in 1999 -back to the lineup. Rraun scored the lone goal against the Eagles last season. 
The Irish controlled the game early, creating many good scor­ing chances. However, they were unable to convert any of these opportunities into goals. 
"We created a bunch of really 
KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 

good chances early," said Irish Irish forward Erich Braun, shown here last season against Cleveland State, logged his first min­head coach Chris Apple. "Had utes of the season in Saturday afternoon's 2-0 loss to Boston College. we converted those, it would 
LIFE IS SHORT. 
START OUT 
WORKING FOR THE BEST. 
flNANCIAL ADVISORY SERVICES MIXER FOR UNDERGRADUATES AND MBAs MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 7:00PM-9:00PM AT COACHES 
At PricewaterhouseCoopers, we offer you the opportunity to grow personally as well as professionally. Aiter all, the more we grow together, the more 
everyone profits together. Now that you know something a.bout us, why not tell us something about you -make tracks to our Online Career Profile. 
www.pwcglobal.com/ocp 

f'R/cEWATfRHOUsf(?XJPERS I 
Join us. Together we can change the world.sM 
0 2000 Prin·\v;11erh,iuseCX1fk!n LLP. Pri(:~~;1lc-thous-<'COO(K'rs re1er,; to tilt' U.S. iirm ot f-rke•,valerhrn1seCcHJf)ef!; LLP and rnher mt-.mbf'FS of tl1e WC>fldwide .,..icewillerhOtJw:Coopen, ot~nization. P'rK.f:\",•.ilel'houseCooper, is ptUl=r.l lO ~ Jn AWnnitive At.11-0ri and Eq1.1al Opportunity Employer. 
have been a totally different game." 
The Eagles took an early lead in the game's 18th minute. Senior midfielder Jorgen Lie headed the ball into the penalty box. where sophomore Casey Schmidt touched it to freshman Kenny Adams, who promptly placed the ball in the back of the net. 
The game continued to be played very closely and aggres­sively. After falling behind early, the Irish offense began to press a bit. 
The Irish looked ready to tie the game in the 85th minute. They had a free kick in the Eagle half of the field. They completed one pass off of the kick before turning the ball over to Schmidt. who streaked down the field to score the Eagles' final goal of the game unassist­
ed. . After giving up another break­away goal -the Irish also gave one up in last Wednesday's 3-1 loss to Bradley -the Irish are focusing on controlling the ball while on offense. "If you 're a little bit more experienced on the attack, you might not try to force things that much," said Apple. "You might be a little bit more patient. If you're a little bit more patient, then you don't give the ball away in dangerous situations." Braun, who had not played yet this season. returned to play the game's final 15 minutes. Apple feels that adding last season's leading scorer to the offense will help the team follow through on the chances they are already creating. "When you've got young play­ers who haven't played together for more than a couple of weeks now, there's going to be some confusion. There's no one like Erich who is kind of the go-to guy that people can always count on to finish chances," said Apple. Braun is also excited about his return. "It felt good," he said. "It was good to be a part of the team again. I'm lacking a little bit in playing with the team. but I'll get that with a good week of practice." After two consecutive losses, the team has a week of practice before heading back east to take on conference rival Syracuse, who finished sixth in the Big East last season. The team will try to work on the finer points of its game in hopes of coming out on top. "We're verv confident we have a team that will make the adjustments that need to be made." said senior Reggie McKnight. "When we need to be. we'll be peaking at the .right time." The team's defense has proved the ability to hold two talented teams in check during its last two games, and Apple feels that the Irish are only a consistent offense away from being a dangerous team. 'The last step always to come with a young team is scoring," said Apple. " I'm not concerned, I know we'll get that last step." 
eTightinglrish.com 
The Marketplace 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 11, 2000 
felt all right," Godsey said. Godsey, whose older broth­"Thr.n the next thing you er George starts at quarter­
Battle 
know he was knocking on my back for Georgia Tech, will 
Davie on Irish QBs
door. I was pretty shock<~d,0 compete with freshmen Jared
continued from page 24 
Batlle injured his wrist fol• Clark, Carlyle Holiday and 
offense. This is a trnmcndous lowing an incompletion of a Matt Lovecchio. None of the blow" bootleg pass intended for four have ever takHn a snap Whi-n rcaclwd in his Carroll IIolloway on the first play of in a college game. Ila!! mom Sunday night. Saturday's 27-24 overtime 'Tm not trying to be evasive Battle refused comm11nt. sav­loss Lo Nebraska. Ile played in any way," Davie said. "H's ing he~ still has to mcwt with the remainder of thr. game just that we don't know what doctors today. with a broken wrist but strug­we're going to do. It depends "I'll talk about it afln prac­gled in the passing game. on what we have to do to beat tice Ion l\fondavl." Battle said. completing only 3 of' 15 Purdue offensivrlv onre wl' I n a propa r 1• d statom c n t. attempts. look at their defense. If you BattlP did spPak of his ordi-al. According to Davin. Battle knew that one did han a sig­"Wlrnn I left the lock11r was able to grip and make a nificantly better grasp of the room Saturday night. I had no fist aftnr the game but the system or if you knew one a
idi-a it was any more than wrist sw1-lled on Saturdav was signifirantly brtter as an sprain," BattlP said. "When night. • athlete or a thrower. then il's-lh<•y told mP it was f'rarturfld. Sunday morning. BattlH
On easier to make that decision." it was a shock1•r. IL is a tough rould not make a fist so he The four quarterbacks deal" was givnn. an X-ray that begin their game-week prepa­
Thn Irish had a t11am nrnnt­showed a crack in the navicu­ration this morning at 6:45 ing yrstl'rday al 4 p.m. whnn lar bone. when the Irish will meel and lhPy wrin~ told of the situa­"Wh!1n we left Ion Saturday watch film on Purdue. tion. night! WP thought it was a At least one of tho potential 
"!\ lot or peoplP didn't even slightly to modnrately starters seems confident. know," backup quarterback sprained wrist." DaviP said. "I know all thP-plays," (;ary <;odsey said Sunday. "We didn't think it'd be a Godsey said. 'Tm fine with 
''We all f1•lt r!'ally bad f'nr problem... the svstem. I r:an't wait. This 
Now, thP Irish fare thr, is wh.at you play football for."
them. Tlwy play their hearts out all tlw tinm. Thry worknd unthinkable six days before And despite the severity ol' so hard to ){Pt to this point." taking un No. 1:1 Purdue. As the two injuries. Davie Battle. snnior caplain .Jabari of Sunday, Davie had not remains confident. l!olloway and receiv<>rs David named a starter for "Although this is a major. Saturday's home game and major blow it's not going to
Givens and Joev Cctherall went to (;ods11v·s· O'N1?ill I !all m,tv not namP one l'or a l'ew be an excuse," Davie said. room lo inf'orm thn sopho­days. The starter for the "No one should feel sorrv l'or lllOl'P signal railer. Purdur. game may not neces­us. We have some tatc'nted sarily be the long-term No. 1 players and we've got to go
"I talkPd to him lArnazl after tlw game and he said he quarterback. forward." 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
> 


"He's the most athletic with a strong arm, Consistency? I don't know because he hasn't had many opportunities. Ru.t he's 
extremely athletic, probably the most like Arnaz in his capability Carlyle Hoiday running the .football." 
"He's probably the strongest throwe,: He's a big, strong, physical guy that can run the ball. He's not really an option quarterback but he can run." 

Jared Clark 

"He's probably a combination ofthe two ofthem [Holiday and Clark]. He may not be as athletic as Carlyle and may not throw it as well as Jared, but I think he has some pres­ence to him. I think he understands the system."


"We don't know that he's significantly better because he's been here in spring, but I fee/fortunate Gary Godsey's in the program. I thought he was solid in the spring game and did some good things." 


Gary Godsey 

Af~ rt-iUf~ANDERSEN 
A few words about your future . 
• 

Assurance  Arthur Andersen invites all students at Notre Dame and St. Mary's to learn  
Business Consulting  more about our role ill the new economy  
Corporate Finance  
eBusiness  Learn about exciting career opportunities-on the leading edge of  
Human Capital  changes in today's business world' And bnng your resume!  
Legal Services Outsourcing Risk Consulting Tax Services  Information Session Tuesday, September 12, 2000 at 6:30 p.m. Center for Continuing Education (CCE) Dress is casual. Refreshments will be served.  
Interested in an exciting career at Arthur Andersen-but can't make the  
session? Email your resume to our ND/SMC Recruiting Team. at  
chi-campus_recruiting@us.arthurandersen.com. Or fax it to 312-462-4369.  
www.arthurandersen.com  

Note· The services ottered 111 particular ::ireas may depeI1d on local regulat1om;. In some loc.1t1ons. legnl and/or tax service:. are provided by Andersen Legal. the internat,on:il network ol law firms that 11, assoc:Iatec1 wItr1 A11ner~e11 Worldwide SC. 
Artllu1 A11,iers!'>11 «:Im» lo tlm US firm ol Ar1hur Andersen LLP i.lnd otlier mP111h1,rs ol t11i, Artl1u1 Anrlnr~flil Cjl0l'lill Clit'lll SHrv,cP IH•lwnrk ,, , 2000 Arthur Andersen. All rights reserVP.<.1 
page 21 Monday, September 11, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish crush Broncos in rematch of NCAA semifinal 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sporrs Writer 
The rematch was a mis­match. 
Tim highly antiripatcd dash bPtwcen the second-ranked Notre Dame Fighting Irish and the third-ranked Santa Clara Broncos had all the makings of a classic. Al'!11r Notrn Dame .-ndPd t.lrnn-unbnatPn Santa Clara's 1999 s!'ason in the NCAA snmifinals. revenge was supposed to b<~ on the Broncos mind. The Irish were looking to prove their upset win was no f1uke. This one, however, was no dassic, just a game Santa Clara will do its best to forget. 
The Irish came out firing, looking as if they did indeed have something to prove, as they shelladed the hapless Broncos. G-1. Friday at Alumni Field. No one thought it would be this easy including Notre Danrn head coach Handy Waldrum. 
"To win by that margin. it's a real surprise," Waldrum said. 
International Summer Service learning Program Year 2001 
Cambodia  louador  El SolYllldor  
Ghana  Holli  Hondura,  Indio  
l•ru,al•lll  ffl.alco  Uganda  

ISSLP is an &-week community based summer service-learning course where students work in one of twelve countries around the world with organizations and ministries meeting the needs of the poor and marginalized. Includes: Travel Expenses. $1,700 Tuition Scholarship, 3.0 credit Theology course, Preparation &: Re-entry Classes. 
Qualified candidates must have strong conversational sl<ilis ior Spanish speaking sites and previous experience in service-learning. 
Information 
~ 
AppUs:ahons7 
Deadlines' Ouestian~' 
"'4tl 
C I N T I • ~ 0 ~ 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

At the Center for Social Concerns Thursday, September 14, 6:00pm Tuesday, September 26, 6:00pm Sunday, October 8, 6:00pm 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns 
Due Wednesday, November l" 
Call the ISSLP Director, or Andrea Mechenbier or Dawn Lardner at 631-5293 

"I thought it would be a tight game." 
Freshman Amanda Guertin got things started for Notre Dame as she outraced a Santa Clara defender to the corner and threaded a perfect cross to Mentis Erikson who hesitated before sliding a low shot into the right corner. 
The Broncos looked as if they might be ready to make a game of it when senior forward Kathleen Cicio notched her fourth goal of the season to tie the score at one, 
But that was all Santa Clara could muster. Irish senior cap­tain Anne !'>lakincn. playing as if possessed, sent a perfect through ball to streaking fresh­man Amy Warner. The first­year speedster wove her way through the Bronco defense, before burying the shot that would prove to be tho game winner into the lower right cor­ner of the net. 
"I just kept seeing holes behind players," Warner said. "Then when I looked up I saw the net open and that's when I shot it." 
Up 2-1. the Irish struck again with Makinen once again lead­ing the way. The Irish senior sprung Guertin with a perfect ifiad. and the first-year talent did the rest -beating the keeper with a low shot. 
Makinen, considered by many as college soccer's best player, enjoyed a good game even by her standards, Her penalty kick goal gave the Irish a 4-1 lead with under 10 minutes remain­ing and would serve as the proverbial nail in the coffin. 
''She's the best player in col­lege soccer," said Santa Clara head coach Jerry Smith. "I have such a high opinion of 

Changingthe Face ofPsychology 
"J cbo.1e ISPP becallde it ba.1 a .;mall .;cbool atmo.;pbere anJ it ba.1 tbe type ofprogram that I wa..; looking for. Being able to tra,uitionfrom tbe Ma..;ter.; 
pro_qram to tbe Doctoral wa..; a 'iJefinite pllldl" 
-Diana M. Bonifas 

Illinois School of Professional Psychology Student 
From private practice fo corporations, from counseling centers to board rooms, today's psychologists and professional counselors are finding endless opportunities waiting for them. 
Graduate Programs Offered... 
• 
APA Accredited Doctorate in Clinical Psychology (Psy.D.) 

• 
Clinical Psychology (M.A.) 

• 
Counseling Psychology (M.A.) 

• 
Health Services Administration (M.S.) 

• 
Postdoctoral Respecialization Programs 



Illinois School of Professional Psychology 
Chicago Campus 
Two First National Plaza, 20 S. Clark St., Third Floor, Chicago, IL 60603 
1-888-488-7537 
www.aspp.edu or visit our on-line campus at http://argosy.aspp.edu 

her." Makinen was quick to deflect the credit. "It's a team sport," she said "I can only do my part."· 
Indeed Makinen's role was a large one. After watching their leader raise her level of play, the rest of the Irish could not help but step up. 
Junior forward Kelly Tulisiak got into the act late in the game, notching two quick goals that seemed to pour salt into Santa Clara's gaping wounds. 
The Broncos were without their two top players. Danielle Slaton is playing for the Olympic National Team. while Aly Wagner missed the game with an injury. 
Smith was, nevertheless. a 
man looking for answers after watching his squad lose a sec­ond-straight game for the first time in six years, dropping the Broncos' record to 2-2. 
''The difference is the depth," he said. "We had 13 healthy players and depth took over late in the game. We just have too many people out." 
The six goals scored by the Irish were the most allowed by the Broncos in 20 years. 
Though the lopsided win came over a depleted Santa Clara team. it nonetheless showed the nation that this Notre Dame team is ready to pick up where last year's team left off. 
"I think we can go all the way," Makinen said. 
-

Troop 


'tryouts 
The only hip-hop dance team on campus for guys and girls 
Learn a routine at the Tryout Practice Times: 301 Rockne 
Tues, Sept 12 6:30prn-8:00pm 
Thurs, Sept 14 6:30pm-8:00pm 
Tryout: 219Rockne 
Sun, Sept 17, starts 8:30pm 
CONTACT: 
Molly Niquette (rnniquett@nd.edu) 243-8413 
Gretchen Minick (minick.l@nd.edu) 277-1058 
Gina Corpuz (rcorpuz@nd.edu) 621-8524 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September I I, 2000 

Irish 

continued from page 24 
and then we did pick it up in lhe third game of both of those matr.hes. But I thought today (Sunday]. it was pretty back and f'orth. It reallv r.ame down Lo who had th·e best fifth game and Michigan State played very. very well in game live. Statistically, it's not that wc played poorly. it's just that they wnre able to play at a higher level when it mattered most," Brown said. 
Down 2-1. the Irish jumped into game four to take the carlv lead. With a 7-1 mark. tlrn Spartans tied thn srorc at 11-11 and then jumpBd 
ahead. The Irish then scored four straight for the 15-12 game !'our win. 
Kreher led Notre Dame with 21 kills while senior Christi Girton added 19 kills. 16 digs and five blocks. .Junior Malinda Goralski also added 15 kills for a career high. 
"I fofll like it was a great learning experience for us. I would want to play the same sr.hedule all over again. I think that those are the types of teams that we have to play to get better and that's how we'rn going to learn more about our weaknesses and our strengths," Brown said. "We certainly didn't want to r.ome away with three losses. but I think it's going to pay off for us down the road.'' 

Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­. A" Force ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
the cultivation of qualities 
that count for leadership. 
Whether you're about to 
start college or have 
already begun, it's time 
to make your decision, 
now. 

Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
PGA TOUR 

Woods wins Canadian Open 
Associated Press 
OAKVILI.li, Ontario 
Tiger Woods has a shot for 
evt>rv occasion. 
Pu:..,hcd to th(' limits bv an unlikely challenger. w;iods completed golf"s grnat sumnwr in style Sunday with a 6-iron !'rom a !'airway bunker, over the water and right al thP. flag, to win the Canadian Open by one strokfl over Grant Waiui. 
"When pressure is at its peak. that's when your con­centration l1wcl is at its high­est," Woods said. "It builds to a crescendo." 
Wonds chipped from the back of the green to a foot and tapped in for birdie to rlosR out a 7-under 65 and his fifth victorv in seven tourna• men ts this ·summer. Three of them w£~rP-majors. one of them g:ave him the career Grand Slam and all of them were filled with unforgettable shots. 
All five victories included some kind of scoring record -12-undcr at the U.S. Open, 19-under at the British. 18­under at the PGA and a 21­under 259 at Firestone. 
Woods was 22-under over his final 49 holes and finished at 266, the lowest 72-hole score in the 22 years that the Canadian Open has been played at Glen Abbey Golf Club. 
"I've had a wonderful sum­mei;," Woods said. 
He was nearly flawless on Sunday, and had to be. Waite, a runner-up for the second straight week in Canada, matched him stroke-for­stroke and put the pressure 

on with a fi-iron into tlw par-fi 18th grenn that !Pft him a 20­f'oot eagle attr.mpt that rould havP-forcPd a playoff or p1•r­haps snatclrnd a victorv awav 
from Woods.  ·  ·  
"Grant forced  rny  hand,''  
Woods said  

Woods went right at the f1ag, the ball landed about 18 feet behind the hole. Waite missrd his eagle try and had to settle for a h6 and one stroke short or winning, just like he was in Vancouver last week. 
:PAPAJUBi 
"My goal was not lo gnt loo caught up in the hypP ... Wait<' said. "I gavP him a run !"or llw monnv," 
lnd,~Nl. nrithPr playl'r madP a bogny and they rombined !'or 13 birdins tu turn tlw final round into a nwmorable du!'I. 
"Thn only way lo beat him b to outplay him," Wait11 said. "Hight now, that's a difficult task. lle's an extraordinarv playrr who conws along once every genr,ration -or his case, maybe oncn in l'ornvrr." 



LARGE CHEESE PIZZA 
$5.55 
Notre Dame Saln-t aary's 
271-1177 271-7272 Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 am Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am Sunday Noon -1 am 
•TIie n,o•t pop,ular • on cam,p,u;•" 
Seniors ... 
Do you have questions about life after Notre Dame? Are you wondering what to do next year? 
Join a Senior Transition Group 
~Groups meet 5 times on Sunday evenings throughout the year to discuss 
h(1w ND values can be integrated into future careers. 
-Prof's from each college, ND staff and Alumns will host the groups in 
their homes. 
-Kickoff Sunday September 24th 

~Other meetings on Nov. 5, Dec. 3, Jan. 28, Feb. 25. 
Sign Ups: Wednesday, Sept. 13 at LaFortune from 12-5 -or­E-mai your name, phone number, and address to Shappell.1@nd.edu before Wednesday, Sept. ~O 


..... 

Monday, September 11, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
WHAT THE LIST oF ARE YOU PLAYERS CUT LOOl<ING FROM THE 
AT? FooTSAl.L TEAM. 
I 
I 

I HATE To TELL YOU THIS, PETE., 
SUT YOU'RE Rl&HT 
,A.T THE ToP. J 


BUT l DIDN'T EVEN TRY 
OUT THIS YEAR. 
\ 

I REALLY 
I-IATETo TELL YOU THIS, PETE, SUT••• 
\._ 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
MY NAME LOOKS LIKE \S PRE-YOU WEREOR ...T CUT FROM
1
r " ED? C:itRLS' G'YM­oN,TKE5E•.'NAST1cs, Too. 
\ 

TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

1-1, P'lOl"'l J l--lere.•~ r"I\/ d1dy l°'undr-, .And 
wo,ld (dOU f1\1nd sc.,I.A:>b1ns -the. +o,le.h 'l()c.w.-.-.,~ o.Y\d c.lwa, 
.,,. 
p ... , 
, (} .. 
I 
.,, 

One reason why my mom stopped visiting. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS · 31 Socially 1 Gather challenged 6 Talk glowingly 
35 Desserts with about one's 
crusts children, e.g. 37 Cheapskate 10 Doctrines, 40 Red Cross informally supplies 14 Devastation 
41 Throat ailment 15 Prom night 
43 Film director transportation 
Kazan 45 Ely of Tarzan 16Twirt fame17 Say four-letter 46 The church words bells go_18 Makes choices 50 It's between 19 Mrs. Chaplin Mars and 

20 The rain goes 
Saturn 53 Military barker 23 Feather 
54 20-, 26-or 25 Spray can 46-Across, e.g. 26 The horse goes 57 "Blue" or 
"White" river 29 Blockhead 58 Frost 30 Kind of 59 Mr. Spock 
wrestling portrayer 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE A M F M 
B E L 1 111111-.:...+:..;.i.;..;+.;;...i R A I N =+=+,,,..+,M-,,t-,A,-i 
L I N 
A M E 
C E L E E N 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people ·and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
E 


63 English school 
since 1440 64 Satan's work 65 Mortimer who 
was asked "How can you be so stupid?" 
66 Method: Abbr. 67 Depend (on) 68 Russian despots 
DOWN 1 Cries at 
fireworks 2 Gaping mouth 3 Caesar's hello 4 Get all sudsy 5 ls frugal 6 Rorschach 
presentation 7 Like a yellow banana 
8 Military vehicle for landing assault troops 
9 Absolute truth 10 Some are 
radioactive 

11 Leopard Puzzle by Gene Newman features 
28 Like oxen 12 Sal of "Exodus" 
pulling a plow 
32 Hook up again greeting 
33 Pilotless plane21 Prepare to hit a 
34 Vin's partner golf ball 
13 Guard dog's 36 Lees
22 Elvis's middle 38 "Xanadu" rock 
name group, for short 23 Braid 39 Get the suds off 24 Inmate who's 42 Sandwich bread 

never getting out 
44Anti 

26 The finest 47 lower 
27 1979 nuclear 48 Phonograph accident site: needle's place Abbr. 49 Sink outlets 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year ..... D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 

--------~-----------------­
Address 

-------------------------~ 
City ________ State ____ ZiP~----­
50 Tommy lee or 56 Alternative to James Earl Charles de Gaulle 
51 Agreement 
60 "Culpa" starter 52 Pullover shirts 
61 Hockey's Bobby 
55 Mop's 62 QB's gains: companion Abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

Happy Birthday: Your ideas will be hot this year. The more you get involved in exciting projects, the bet­ter the chance of reaching your finan­cial goals. You will be able to take a position of leadership that will not only help you achieve the recognition you deserve, but also bring you the control that will help you move on to even greater objectives. Your mun­bers: 2, 16, 24, 28, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't jump to conclusions and take unnec­essary actions. Don't let business and emotional problems interfere with one another. You have to do the best you can and stop worrying so much. 
000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll end up doing more running about than you expected. You can open up doors through the connec­tions you make at the different desti­nations you visit. Don't be shy; say what you think. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Chil­dren will cost you if you give in to their demands. You have to learn to say no. Donations must not exceed your budget. You don't have to impress others. Just be yourself. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your partner will be upset if you keep nag­ging. Be positive and helpful and you will accomplish a lot more. You need to work on yourself in order to improve your relationship. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take time out to rejuvenate. You can offer sup­port to a friend in need. Your intuitive insight will help you with your finan­cial choices. You need to follow your 
Birthday Baby: You tend to be a pacifist, but when forced to make a state­ment, you can bet that it will be well thought out and have a strong impact on those who count. You are not one to flaunt your abilities, but when needed you will always come through. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
EUGENIA LAST 
own instincts. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
can't do everything yourself. You've 
always put others before yourself and 
it's time to start taking care of your 
own needs first. Don't feel guilty; just 
doit.000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22); You will attract individuals who are over­indulgent. Deception is apparent. It is best to back away from situations that are W1Stable or nonproductive. Focus on the positive and getting ahead. 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have a wonderful effect on oth­ers. Pursue competitive activities that will present a positive challenge for you. Your added discipline will give you the push you need to win. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
The uncertainties surrounding con­tracts or legal matters will drive you crazy. Sign any necessary papers quickly and wait. Expect to have some problems with institutional pro­cedures. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your reluctance to let your partner in on your thoughts is causing suspi­cion. If you have nothing to hide, you must explain your secretive actions. You could end up alone if you don't. 
00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be getting bored with your job. 
-
Take a look around you and see if some other position might interest you. Talk to your boss; you may just get what you want. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let fair-weather friends take advan­tage of your generosity. You shouldn't pay for their mistakes or their enter­tainment in order to keep them as friends. 000 



-
Blanked 
The Notre Dame men's soccer was unable to get on the scoreboard in a conference game against Boston College .
PORTS 
page 19 
O
THE 
BSERVER
page 24 

FOOTBALL 

Irish lose Battle indefinitely 
. Senior Irons lost for season with separated shoulder 
By TIM CASEY Assisrnnr Sports Editor 
AftPr a h11artbrnaking loss on Saturdav. the miserablr. w1•PkPnd n~ntinued for the Irish on Sundav. , 
Quarlt\rback Arnaz Battl!\ l'rarturPd tlw navirular bone 111 his ldt wrist and is out indr.finitPly. possibly for Lim season. l)pfr•nsivP Pnd Crant Irons. a sPnior captain. dislo­ratcd his right shoulder and will miss tlw rl'mainclnr of the 2000 campaign. 
Irons will havP surgPry within tlw rwxt IO davs and mav rPrl'iYI' a mPclircil rPd­shi;•t and rPtll rn for a f'if'th v1•ar. coach l~ob DaviP said. If ilaLtlP, a junior. missPs lhP f"inal nint' ganws. lw may also gain an l'Xtrn }'Par ol' eligibili­

lv. llaviP said that Battle may t{avn surgPry and that tlwy will "pxhaust all options" and gatlrnr advirP from spveral dDrtnrs and traiiwrs. 
Tlw fourth-war head ci,arh was informc•d of' Battle's 111,1ury Sunday morning around I I :30. IPss than two hours lwf'orl' announring the n<iws al lus WPPkly prnss con­forPncf:. 
"W<~ all rnalizt' what a blow this is." l>avin said. "Ynu'vp all SPP!l how wr'vr. evolvPd as a football lP,tnl and how much work has gone into this 
see BATTLE/page 20 

-WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish defeat Cardinal in overtime thriller 

By KEVIN BERCHOU Spom W rirer 
They had to work a little longer than anticipated, but for the members of the Notre Dame women's soccer team the extra pffort was definitely worth it. 
The spcond-ranked Fighting Irish clipped the Cardinal of Stanford in overtime. 2-1. Sunday to cap a memorable weekend. which saw thnm knock off two of the country's top teams. 
Artt\r ripping Santa Clara 6-1 on Friday night. Notre Dame felt as if' it r.ould seriously chal­1e nge for the national title. 

Arter knocking off the high fly­ing Cardinal. the Irish are cer­tain of their place in the nation's pecking order -they belong at the top. 
"The bottom line is that it's great to get a pair of wins over opponents of this caliber." said Notre Dame head coach Handy Waldrum. "There were many positives to the weekend." 
The Irish struck first in the game's 35th minute as sopho­more Nancy Mikacenic sent a pass from the right flank to classmate Ashley Dryer. who deftly one-touched the ball to Amy Warner, who converted the tap-in for a 1-0 lead. 
The Cardinal stunned the Irish. who had been dominat­
ing the flow of play. by tying the scori; 10 minutes into the second half. Sophomore Marcia Walls beat a sprawling Liz Wagner for her third goal of the season. Waldrum was pleased with the way his troops responded to the adver­sity. 
"We were a little shocked when they tied it up," he admitted. "But we pressed on. I'm proud of the way we responded." 
The goal was the only mis­take of the game for the unflappable Wagner, who made countless big saves for the Irish all weekend. 
"It was a big weekend for Liz Wagner," Waldrum said. "Liz 

showed us something and had a pair of strong games... 
In an emotion-filled battle. the Cardinal fell victim to the heat of the moment. Sophomore midfielder Callie Withers was ejected after receiving a red card for shov­ing Mikacenic with just over eight minutes left. 
Her untimely exit forced the Cardinal to play with only 10 players. 
The opportunistic Irish took advantage, with a little help from the Cardinal. With senior Anne Makinen leading the way, the Irish were on the offensive in overtime. Makinen's well-
see STANFORD/page 16 
VOLLEYBALL 
Host team swept at tourney 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Spom Wrire1 
Nntn\ Dame volleyball fell to 3-:3 l'ollowing this week,;nd ·s adidas Invitational Tournament wherf' it lost to Nebraska. UCLA and Michigan State. 
Leading the Irish pPrf'or­mancc was junior Kristy Krfdrnr. who was namf1cl to the adidas all-tournanrnnt team. 
Thr. Irish kickPd off th<' wPckcnd with No. 4 Nnbraska in a threc-gamr. lluskN virto­rv. Nr.braska strurk hard in g·a me o n n to s ha kP u p t hP Irish ddensn as thP lluskPrs took a 3-15 win. Thn Irish tlwn rncoven~d to put up a fight in the sPcond ganw with a 9-15 score. With a 12-10 lead in tlw third gamP. thP Irish fell apart as NPbraska sr.ornd l'ivc points in a row lo earn Lim ganw and th1\ match. 
.Junior Marcie Bomhack led Notre Dam<' with S<'VPn kills whil11 Jo .lameyson and Malinda Goralski Pach added six. 
Notrn DamA came back hard on Satu r cl a y to 1·. h a 11 P n g e third-ranked UCLA. but wern unable to hold on as the Bruins grabbed the three­game win 05-7. 15-7. 17-15). With a win just ahead in gamP three and a score of 14-8. UCLA regained control from the Irish for the 17-1!i win. 
Junior Kristy KrPhcr Ind Notre Dame with 15 kills and nine digs while Dcniso Boylan racked up l'ive kills. five digs and 29 assists to aid the Irish. 
"We let too many games get away with Nebraska and UCLA where we didn't even compete in the games. I would have liked that to be better. just to push them a little bit more." said head coach Debbie Brown. "I thought that Michigan State would be a battle and it was certainly what I expected, but we're disappointed that we lost." 
Notre Dame was unable to edge Michigan State as the Spartans took the five-game win 112-15, 15-7, 12-15. 15­12. 10-151. 
"I think to summarize it, the first two games of both Nebraska and UCLA. our per­formance was not very goud 
see IRISH/page 21 

• 
Volleyball Volleyball vs. Washington vs. Valparaiso vs. Kalamazoo Saturday, 12 p.m.
SPORTS \IP 
Tuesday, 7 p.m. Tuesday, 6:30 p.m. 
ATA SIIC Soccer vs. Purdue ,~ at Syracuse 
vs. Kalamazoo 
fl 

Saturday, 12 p.m. Saturday, I p.m. 
Tuesday, 5 p.m. 
GLANCE 









