
The love of the theater 
Notre Dame's theater department performs the Greek drama "For the Love ofthe Nightingale" this weekend at Washington Hall. 
Scene . page 13 

THE 
VOL XXXIll NO. 120 
Wednesday 
APRIL 12, 
2000 

HTTP:/ /OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Nuns struggle with challenges of age 
• As the median age for Holy Cross sisters rises, so do their responsibilities 
By NELLIE W1LLIAMS 
News Wrirer 
Tr.chnology has increased longevity. bul not age awareness, according to a recent study by JoAnn Meyer Burke, assistant professor of social work and anthropology at Saint Mary's College. 
Burko recently conducted a study on how tlrn role of Catholic nuns is expand­ing lo includr. family caregivers. She resParclwd some of tlrn difficulties sis­ters fa<·n and how they deal with them while living in a community of other rapidly aging nuns. The rising number of aging sisters with older families is an issue ac:ross the nation. 
Burkn said that the new generation of young adults today can learn a great dPal about caregiving t'rorn the older sis­tPrs. 
"We have a large number of retired sistr.rs." she said. "It poses, at least as I think about it. an interesting position l'or both older sisLPrs and young women on nunpus lo l<•arn about how w11're going to livP. longPr." 
Tlw median age !"or sisters is more than 65 -murh old,\r than it was 30 years ago. VPry few sisters arc youngm· than 50 and llrn avl'rage ag,i of care­givers is 41 to 77. Burke interviewed 46 Catholic sisters from 11 non-cloistered rnligious institutes for lwr research. 
Burki' /·amp up with thn-)e major con­clusi,111s of why sisters might struggle with rnrngiving. ll<•r first was "the dom­
see NUNS/page 6 


ND grad 
•


receives Pulitzer 
By KIFLIN TURNER News Writer 
1994 Notre Dame alumnus George Dohrmann was honored Monday with the Pulitzer Prize for his beat reporting and investiga­
tion of aca­demic fraud within the University of Minne­sota's bas­ket b al I team. 
D o h r ­


mann broke Dohrmann the story in the St. Paul PionPer Prnss before the team was to partic­ipate in the 1999 nwn·s NCAA basketball tournament 
As a result of his reporting, many university officials lost their jobs. 
"I have a hard time feeling sympathy for a player who cheats. or feeling sympathy for a coach who cheats. or an administrator who covers up, or condones, or facilitates this," Dohrmann said. 
Dohrmann began rnporting on the case in March 1999, 
see PULITZER/page 4 

Continued outcry 
The Notre Dame community continues to respond to recent attacks against women. 
ViewPoint . page 11 


BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Faculty Assembly to review study days proposal next fall 
[Mary Ann] Merryman, who is on academic affairs, chaired by
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
leading the Faculty Assembly this [College president] Dr. Eldred 
Associate News Editor 
year, said they are debating an and Dr. Ristau, [vice president issue that will dominate their dis­and dean of faculty]. 
A proposal to implement study cussion and so they will not be "Now the proposal is in your days at Saint Mary's will not be able to discuss the study day pro­hands and I encourage you to reviewed by the Faculty Assembly posal. continue to push for it." until the fall, when the 2000-Merryman 
In other BOG

2001 ·school year begins, said said the pro­
"Now the proposal is in 
Angie Little. former Saint Mary's posal will be news: 
student body vice president. placed on the your hands and I . Residence Llttle updated the Saint Mary's faculty encourage you to contin­Hall Association Board of Governance on the Assembly's elections will be 
ue to push for it. " 
progress of the proposal at docket for its held Thursday Tuesday's meeting. It was first first meeting in the Noble suggested in 1998. during Nancy in the fall. Angie Little Family Dining Midden's vice•presidential term. according to Hall frnm
former student body
Since then. Midden and Little Little. Little 7:30-9:30 a.m.,
vice president
worked with the rough draft to also encour­11 a.m.-1 p.m. transform it into a more solid aged BOG to and 4:30-6:30 proposal. continue p.m. 
After cobbling together the pro­working on its implementation. . Student Activities Board is posal. the pair sent it to the "There has been a lot of hard sponsoring "Who Wants to Win $100" in the LP.Mans llall lobby
Committee on Student Affairs, work put into this proposal," she which sent it to the Faculty said. "The ball is rolling and the today at 7 p.m. Assembly. administration is excited about it. . The "Take Back the Night" 
"We've taken the proposal to After the Faculty Assembly looks march will be today bc1ginning at the Faculty Assembly and they 6:45 p.m. outside LeMans Hall. 
at the proposal. it would go on to have a meeting on April 19,·• the committee on academic stan­. SMC Tnstal will b1! held on Litlle said. "However. professor dards and finally the committee April 27. 
page 2 The Observn-. INSIDE Wednesday, April 12, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Little lessons lead 


to luck o' Irish 
· As Luck Would Have It. I have realized over 
time that a certain law applies to me; some 
call it Murphy's law and some call it fate. 
Whatever it is, it has tripped me up on count­
less occasions. 
Being Irish and a Notre 

Dame student, I must Lila Haughey 
admit that I have many 
things to be grateful fur, 
and I haYe been on the 

Viewpoint
receiving end of "the luck 

Editor 
of the Irish" many times. 
However, there are some 
occasions when I haven't 

had much good luck. These are the times I 
learned some crucial lessons. 

Always accept the first date to the prom or 
a dance because as luck would have it, the 
prospects may only get worse. Just believe 
mo on this one. I didn't have a prom date 
until three days before. I gut picky, but it did 
end up working out okay. it just caused me a 
lol of unneeded stress. 

The one time you decide to pull the wool 
over your parent's eyes and sneak out late at 
night, always make sure ihe dog is outside. 
Otherwise, the dog will think you are an 
intruder and bark loudly. There is nothing 
worse than having your mom appear on the 
front lawn in her nightgown and slippers 
peering into the dark at you as you are about 
to make your getaway. It is also a little 
embarassing to call your friends and tell 
them you aren't coming because, um, you got 
caught. 

Always hang up the phone when it takes 
two "hellos" for the automated response to 
kick in and someone on the other end to 
slaughter your name. Trust me, it's a credit 
card company and if you don't have their 
card they are going to convince you that you 
need it. If you do have their card, they'll con­
vince you to sign up for information on their 
latest promotion and charge you $50 when 
you finally give in. Never give in! 

If you get discounted airline tickets always 
expect to have a delayed or cancelled flight. 
There are no free rides. If you fly during the 
holidays expect to be stuck in an airport for a 
day. It happens; most of us have been there 
... winter break ·oflast year. · 
Always tell your parents what you want for 
Christmas at least by Thanksgiving; if you 
don't, you might get nine books under the 
tree. Believe me, it is easy to be excited after 
unwrapping two or three books. but when it 
gets to four or five, it gets really tough. 
Never stand in a bathtub that has just been 
scrubbed with Ajax. It is slippery! As luck 
would have it. you'll slip and break or twist 
something. It shouldn't have to be a $13,000 
lesson; save the money and learn it now. 
Most importantly. always follow your gut 
response in any situation. Most likely, it is 
right. If it isn't right, most likely you won't 
have lost as much as you could have and are 
safer in the long run. 

Most importantly. always follow your gut 
response to any situation, most likely it is 
right. If it wasn't right. most likely you 
haven't lost as much as you could have and 
are safer in the long run. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Jacqueline Browder Helena Rayam Kiflin Turner 
Graphics Sports Jose Cuellar Kerry Smith 
Viewpoint 

Lab Tech 
Dustin Ferrell 

Nellie Williams 
The Observer (USPS 59? 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough fridav rxcepr dLtring l"XJm and vacation periods. The Observer is a memher ofthe Associ:in::d Press. All f'cproduction rig.hr-. arc re!ie-rved. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Art: Exhibit of pastels by  . Art: "Stamps of  . Theater: The Wiz: 8  . Art: "Out of the Woods:  
Gerrie Govert 10 a.m.­ Recognition," Carnegie  p.m., Mendel Center  Turnfld Wood by American  
5 p.m., 18 Artists Gallery,  Center Council for the Arts  Mainstage, Lake Michigan  Craftsmen" and "Tim  
Chesterton.  and W.R. Monroe  College. Benton Harbor.  Barrons: Computer  
. Art: "Amish Quilts,"  Museum. Three Rivers.  . Event: "A Life in Art,"  Graphics," 10 a.m.-4 p.n1.,  
10 a.m.-5 p,m, Northern  by Margaret Iannelli,  Kras! Art Center, St.  
Indiana Center for History,  l 1 a.m.-5 p.m., NflW Moon  .Joseph.  
South Bend.  Gallery. Benton llarbor.  

Compiled from U-Wim reports



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
t 

Gorbachev debates Cold War at Northeastern 

BOSTON 

Disintegrating relations between the UnitAd States and Hussia arc the rPsults of lingering Bffects from the Cold War and U.S. response 1.o the war.s in Chechnya, formf'r Soviet President l\1ikhail Gorbachev said Friday at Northeast.em University. 
Gorbachev spoke with members of tlrn academic, business and foreign policy communities on linding ways to easB the shaky rnlalionship between the United Slates and Russia. 
"My impression is them is a scmse of a need to rethink the relationship with Russia," Gorbachev told the forum, which included former U.S. Deputy Secretary of' Defense John Dflutch. 
"It's a serious topic," Gorbachev said. "It's not propaganda. It's some­thing very substantial ... It's very important that we're discussing this now because Russia is having elec­lions and because America is in the swing of elections." 
Gorbachev suggested that the United States and Hussia -two nations he described as "asymmetri­cal" -need to prioritize in order to repair their tattered relationship. Although he offered suggestions. Gorbarhev said he could not be sure of what led to the disintegration of relations between the nations. 
"Hussia must need to solve all 
[domestic) problems," he said. "Hut with [assistance froml the West ... The most important thing is for the coun­tries to work tog11thcr. Harmony is needed." 
Conference participants said the wars in Chechnya were likely contrib­utors to existing tensions betwem1 the two countries. 
According to Gorbachev, the United States was silent during the first war with Chechnya, but has since done an about-face regarding Hm,sia's involve­ment in the war. 
"[Former President Boris] Yeltsin wanted prestige. and promised a glo­rious war," GorbachPv said. "Of coursn, we all know how it ended ... What about the West? The West was quiet because Boris was friend. The language [during the first warl was that this is Russia's problem. When did we cross thn line?" 

U. of Memphis president cleared 
PULLMAN, Wash. The University of Memphis student newspaper false­ly accused Washington State University President-elect 
V. Lane Rawlins of misappropriating $1 million. The Daily Helmsman published an article alleging Rawlins and another UM administrator "lost" a $1 million gift from a private donor. "We pieced the story together from (Faculty Senate) documents and we went with it," said the Daily Helmsman Editor-in-Chief Chuck Holliday. The article ran March 28 and the Helmsman ran a correction March 30. According to the article, Prashant Palvia, a UM business professor, filed a griev­ance with the UM Faculty Senate bncause he believed $1 million from a private donor, Ben Bryant, president and CEO ofSCB Computer Technology Inc .. was misap­propriated by Rawlins and Interim Senior Vice Provost Donna Randall. "We didn't have a complete story because the administration wouldn't talk to us," Holliday said. "We stand by the story with the excep­tion of the headline and the first paragraph." The headline and first paragraph alleged Rawlins and Randall were responsible for the loss of the donation. 
Georgetown students protests IMF 
WASHINGTON 

Tens of thousands of protest<~rs plan to converge on the capital this weekend to campaign against the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. among them Georgetown Solidarity Committee-led students. The Mobilization for Global Justice's aim is to disrupt meetings of the World Bank and IMF with rallies and blockades. "We reallr want to participate in this act of global solidarity." said Vanessa Waldref. president of GSC. The rally anticipated this weekend hopes to encourage both the IMF and World Bank to reduce the debts owed to them by 41 heavily indebted poor coun­tries. These countries borrowed millions of dollars in I.he early 1970s and are now unable to repay their creditors. To try to persuade the international organi­zations, located near the White House, thousands of protestors will descend on tlrn area. Many of the demonstrators are expected to be those who participat­ed in the Nov. 30 Seattle protests against the World Trade Organization which resulted in riots that includ­ed tear gas and looting. The Seattle protests drew 30,000 people, 500 of whom were arrested. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeathe:r• forecasl for daytime conUitions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 11. 
SOS Lines separate high temperature zones for ttie day. 
Wednesday 
~ 47 33 Thursday 4, .56 45 FridayJ ~ 65 50
' ... ' ' ' 

Saturday 4<· 68 48 

O 2000 AccuWeatllf!r, Inc. COLO WARM STArfONAHY PrJJUtlf4; if""1.t
® © . CJc:JCJE'S]Q l):~efi'.#~½ 
HIQh Low Shower a Aaln T•slormfl Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Sunday /:.~-61 42 
v,. Ass0cilll8rl PrttS!i 

~j'"'<J"'''··,/•"\'i,(';  ,  
Atlanta  70  53  Las Vegas  87  57  Portland  70  49  
q,Q,QA,gQ i) Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Svnny \/fa Associated PrESS Graf')llicsNat  ~ u Pt. C/olJciy <;;loudy  Ballimare Boston Chicago Houston  55 49 52 7!>  49 34 30 64  Memphis Milwaukee New York Pittsburgh  65 48 53 46  49 29 40 35  St. Louis San Jose Tampa Wash DC  59 74 84 59  39 48 64 50  


Wednesday, April 12, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
ND Latino Institute 




presents documentary 
Special to The Observer 
"The Forgotten Americans," a 1111e-l10nr rlocunrnntary film about the "colunia" ehildrnn of Texas, will lrn shown at 4 
p.m. Thursday in 141 lkllartolo al Notre Damn. 
Prnsente<l bv Not.rn Dame's Institute for Latino Studins, the !'rec public screuning will be followpd hy a discussion with Jaime Cliahin, associate professor and dean of applied arts at Southwest Texas State university a11d director ol' the I.as Colonias Project that pro­duced the documentary. 
"Colonia" is a Spanish term l'or nPighborhood or commu­nity, and in Texas it refers sp,wifically to unincorporated settlements that often lack basic waler and sewer sys­tems, paved roads amt safe 

,free from blur or loss of resolution. In fact, we want to make your copies Quality Copies, Quick/yr

Something
picture perfect, clean, and visible. If 
to Buz 
,. ,--­
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnightyou're still out of focus on copies, we Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pmwill put things in perspective for you, Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm


About!
and make the kind of photocopies you Sunday: Noon to Midnightwant. Stop in soon and check us out! 
Copyright 2000 • All Rights Reserved • 4/00 

and sanitary housing. 
"The Forgotten Americans" was produced to create public awareness and to educate and iuform communities and public policyrnakPrs about the living condiLions of children and families residing in the colonias along the L'.S.­Mexicau border. 
Directed by award-winning documentariau Hector Galan, the film is narrated by Henry Cisneros, former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, former mayor of San Antonio, and now prr~si.dent and chief operating offi(;er of Univision Communications, Inc. 
Notn~ Dame is on<J of nine sites on the film's world pre­miere tour, which began !\lurch 17 at the Smithsonian Institute. 
MIT dorm fire hospitalizes I 

MICHELLE POVINELLl!The Tech Firefighters combat a blaze that struck the fourth floor 'of an MIT dormitory Monday night. One student was seriously injured in the fire and seven MIT patrolmen suffered from smoke inhalation. 
Compiled from wire services 
A 19-ycar-old sophomore student remains in critical con­dition with burns over 65 per­cent of her body as a result of Monday night's dorm fire at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Police have been unable to determine the cause of the fire, but they said that the fire start­ed outside of the sophomore student's single-occupancy room on the fourth floor of Random House dormitory in Cambridge. 
MIT spokesman Ken Campbell told Boston Globe 





COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPV 
High Volume Copying Color Copying, Scanning, & Printing Binding / Laminating / Fax Service Newsletters / Reports / Manuals Complete Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! 
reporters that authorities were investigating whether the woman's injuries were self­inflictcd. 
The fire occurred around 
9:J 5 p.m. and the student was brought to Massachusetts General Hospital shortly after the MIT patrolmen arrived and found the student engulfed in flames. 
"They were trying to save her, as I understand it," said Campbell. 
Cambridge Deputy Fire Chief Thomas Stack said there were floor burns in "the center of the room, but I didn't see or smell anything out of the ordinary ­books, a stereo, computer ... 
U1_1stl .~1ormal student-type thmgs. 
Seven MIT patrolmen were temporarily hospitalized for smoke inhalation 
The dorm's 93 undergradu­ate students, three graduate students, and housemasters were forced to evacuate for many hours and all but the fourth floor residents were per­mitted to return once firefight­ers extinguished the flames. Students on the fourth floor returned to their rooms at 2 a.m. 
Residents of the dorm said that they did not know the cause of the fire, but that they heard the smoke alarms. 
ND Food 



Services honored 
Special to The Observer 
Two Notre Dame Food Services apprentices were members of a five-person team that won first place in an Indiana culinary compe­tition sponsored by the South Bend Chefs andCooks Association. The team went on to finish second in the Midwestern regionals of the event. 
Sanctioned by the American Culinary Federation, the competition was based on cooking skills and the timed preparation of a four-course meal. 
Laura Strunk, third-year apprentice in Notre Dame Food Services, and April Lower, a first-year appren­tice advanced with the South Bend Culinary Apprentice team to a region­al competition March 31 in Kansas City, Mo,, where they represented Indiana against teams from other Midwestern states. 
Tho teams wore assessed in three areas: skill, cooking and taste. Despite losing to Laura Pierce of Sr,]rnler's Restaurant in Stevensville, Mich., to a finger cut, the South Bfrnd team won the silver medal. 
Other team members included Jeffrey Hoff of Saint Mary's College and Matthew Evans of the Morris Park Country Club. The team was managed by Donald Miller, executive chef of the Morris Inn at Notre Dame. 

CORRECTION 
In the Scunc section of Monday's Observer it was erro­neously reported that Saint Marv's alumnae Adriana Trigliani will hold a book signing and discussion at the Haggar College Center. Trigliani's ses­sion will take place at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on Saturday, April 15 at 2 p.m. A reception will follow at 4 p.m. at the Haggar College Center 



sWeetestT 
1.) Flowers 2.) Honey 3.) Copies Done Right! 
When you want your pictures sharp and done right the first time, we understand. The Copy Shop in the LaFortune Student Center will make certain that each copy you need is perfect, 

---. -----------------.. -·-·--------­


Pulitzer 

continued from page 1 
after three months of interviews and research. His initial lead was Jan Gangi>lhoff, a former ofTice manager from the univer­sity. Dohrmann said that when he first met her, he noted her close relationship to the players and how much she knew about them. 
"Each time we would talk, she would drop little things," he said. 

Conversations went on for nearly three months before Gange1hoff finally admitted that she was fraudn­lently helping 
some of the "/ didn't go to class -tion,"' Im 
men's basket­and my parents were said. "My ball players. education at
great -they were like

including writ­N o t r e 
ing papers and 'stay off probation'. " DamP, with completing the the excep­takP-home tion of a fow
George Dohrmann 

exams. classes, was
Pulitzer Prize winner

Dohrmann said that he was frustrated during his quest to uncover the truth. 
"There \\ere times you just felt like pulling your hair out, because you knew what was there, but yuu just couldn't get to the bottom of it." he said. 
The reporter said he was sur­prised to receive the prestigious award. 

"It is just totally surreal -as a sports writer. you just never ever imagine," he said. Dohrmann finished second two times for the Associated Press Sports Editor's Award. 
Passion (Palm) Sunday April 16, 2000 




We will celebrate with one Campus-Wide Mass at 1:30 PM 

Church ofOur Lady of Loretto 
Bring your donations for St. Margaret's House 

NO MASSES WILL BE CELEBRATED IN THE RESIDENCE HALLS 
Office of Campus Ministry 
--$-­Saint M§IY-1S Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
Winning the Pulitzer, Dohrmann said, has changed his scope of himself and his work. 
"As a sports writer. you don't really Pver think about the Pulitzer," he said. 
Dohrmann, who majored in Ameri<-an Studies at Notrf' Dame cites his experience at The Observer as sports editor in 1993 and 1994 as the most important part of his r,ollcge career. 
"Working on The Observer was my life,'' Dohrmann said. 
Dohrmann said that his many hours spent at the office wm·;i the most influential of his lifo. 
"T rlidn't go to class --and my parents were great -they were 
like. 'stay 
off proba­
literally The 
( lhsi>rver." 
Dohrmann did not have an easy time break­ing inlo newspapers. He applied for nearly 70 internships for the summer of his junior year and was roj ectorl from c ach onr, including one that was iu his hometown in Stockton. Calif. he said. 
He then went to the San Diego Union-Tribune and begged their sports writer to create a sports internship position for the sum­mer, under the pretense that he would earn college credit. 
"I never got college credits, I never checked with anyone. I just told them that I would get college credit -so I worked there for free for summer," he said. 

In Dohrmann's senior year at Notre Dame, he interned at the South Bencl Tribune and Notre Dame Magazine. 
After graduation, Dohrmann interned for tho L.A. Times. answering phon<'s, m;1king copies and runuing photos for two vears. 
Dohrmann finally got a break with the L.A. Times wl1en ho started doing sports investiga­tive work. 
"Th11 only way to get in thn paper was to do investigative stories.:· Dohrmanll said. 
In August 1997. he got a sportswriting job in August 1997 for the St. Paul Pioneer Press, where he still works. 
£Ie plans to continue his work as a sports writer. 
"This is what I liko to do -I like to do sports projcc.ts, spurts investigation. entPrprise, and I really enjoy it, whero\'cr I go ­this is what I like to do right now." hP. said. "It's kind of like a niche and I figured out that it was good for Ill('," said Dohrmann. 
Three olher Notre Dame alumni have won Pulitz•w PrizP.s. Playwright John Patrick for drama in 1954, Edwin O'Connor for fiction in 1962 and sports columnist Hect Smith in 1976. 



to Ireland* 

Register at lrelandByNET.com to win an Irish Holiday for Two! Visit lrelandByNET.com today to enter for a exciting trip for two to Dublin, including airfare and hotel accommodations for 4 nights at one of Dublin's finest hotels. There's a new trip to win every month!* 
Hurry and enter -the first trip will be given away in June 2000! 
lrelandByNET.com is all things Irish with news, sports, weather, history, culture, live chat, discussions & forums and tourist information. Visit us today! 
Enter now at www.IrelandByNET.com. 

Tuesday April 18th, 2000 
7:30 p.m. 
Saint Mary's College Little Theatre 



Daniel Weeks 
T E N 0 R 


for ticket information contact the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 2844(>26 
Thi., crmcer/ i., pre.rented hy Saint Mary'., Collexe in as.wl'ialio11 with The Marilyn Horne Foundation. 

page4  The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS  Wednesday, April 12, 2000  





orld 
•I 
Wednesday, April 12, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
ETHIOPIA 

Children die in unmonitored minefield 
SARAJEVO 

IIPlpless to savP lrnr, NATO peacekeepers and townspooplP walclwd from the edge of a mindield as a dying I I -year-old girl waved and plnad<1 rl for hours to bo rescued. Erna ,\lie and two otlrnr youngsLers died Monday af'tnr vcntming into thn minefield on tlrn out­skirts of' Llw capita.I, the latest casualties of tlw Bosnian war that ended five years ago. Tlw prcscn,·c of the minefield was well­known. and signs warned of danger. rcsi­d1111ts said. Slill, tlw li(·lcl was nol taped off. Doznns of pcoplP ar<' killed and injurPd <'Very month in explosions oJ' some of the millions of land mines slrmrn across Bosnia. Minefields nindtir large nmas ;dong tlrn l"ornrnr front linfl unusable. Residents gathered around the min<'l'ielcl alfrr the <'xµlosion Monday, fol­lowed by Ttalian nH'mlwrs of thr NATO-lc:ct 1rnacokPeping l"o1·ce, but they could only walch Uw tragndy a l'<'Vv hundred yards away. 
U.S. military retaliates to Iraqi forces 
ISTANBUL 

Responding to enemy lire, U.S. warplanes bombed Iraq's air defense system on Tuesday in tlrn northern no-ny zo1w, a U.S. military slalmnent said. Iraqi forces fired anti-aircraft artillery on coalition planes patrolling the zmw l'rom a si((1 west ot' Bashiqah, about 250 mil<is north of Baghdad. according to a state­ment from llw Germany-based L.S. European Command. All allied planes left the area safe­ly, it added. L.S. and British planes have been patrolling no-fly zones in north and south [raq. set up in the aftermath of the 1991 Persian Gulf War to protect Kurdish and Shiite populations from the forces of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. Iraq, which says the zones violate its territorial integrity, has c:hall<mged allied planes in the areas since Dccember ot" 1998. 
Judge sentences Crips gang members to death 
FAYETTEVILLE, N.C. 

Two men convicted of the gang initiation murders of two women whom they selected randomly for execution on Tuesday were con­demned to die. Francisco "Paco" Tirado, 19, and Eric Queen, 21, were given the death sentences by Judge William Gore Jr. Neither Tirado nor Queen displayed any emotion wben the sentences were read. They were convicted last week of first-degree murder, kidnapping and attempted murder. The first of nine co-defendants to be tried in the case, Tirado and Queen randomly abducted and killed Tracy Lambert, 19, and Susan Moore, 
25. in Linden on Aug. 17, 1998, as part of an initiation into the Crips gang. The killings were carried out with bullets painted the Crips'signature blue. A third woman, Debra Checseborougb, 42, was shot seven times, but survived and testified against Tirado and Qu<~en. 
lf&drMl«/f1M4d

Dow AMEx: 

944.87 JONES -13 -17 Nasdaq:
+I 00.52 

4055.90 -132.30 
~YSE 661.20 +1.49 
S&P 500: Composite 1500.59 
\'olumt:

11287.08 980,750,016
-J.87 
VOLUME LEADERS 

C®WiX tu;gp \ CJJ.W9I $ CUW! RB!CI 
CISCO SYSTI!:MS CSCO -J.53 -2.S6JS 70,00 GLOEAL CROSSING GBLX -0.H ,-0.0625 33,00 MICROSOP"l' CORP MSP'T -2.5' -2.1825 83.BS ORACL! CC:RP ORC:L -6",21 -5.1200 77,38 HASiaQ 100 SH.U QQQ -l."JJ -4,3750 37.75 ~~os UNIPHASE JDSU -7.21 -7.935C 102.1!1 MO'l'OROU. me MOT -17,68 ~27.000 124,00 
IN"l'IL CORP INTC -0.29 -O.J750 ll0.75 RU'I AID COR!' RAD +28,53 . l,i;i;i;,!S 7,Jl MCI l<IOkLDCOM W"COM -0,72 -0.3075 42,]8 

Food shortages plague millions 
Associated Pres.s ADDIS ABABA The food shortage threat­ening th(• livos of millions in Ethiopia is an economic problem that will persist until structural changes an· rnadn. a World Bank official sairl Tuesday. Nigel Tiolmrts, tho bank's director in Ethiopia, said that while the need for food assistance has irn:rcascd significantly this year because of prolonged drought, the problems cre­ating a potrntial humani­tarian disaster will not dis­appear even if the rains come. The Ethiopian govern­ment has appealed for 92.2,000 tons of food aid to assi~ some 7. 7 million threatened with starvation. "(The food shortage) is a symptom of the overall level of poverty in the country." Hobcrts told reporters. "When this emergency is over, the underlying struc­tural problems will remain. It will take substantial com­mitment by the government and the donor community. It's important to understand that Ethiopia has persistent food crises." Roberts said it was neces­sary to transform what is basically an agrarian econ­omy by promoting develop­ment in urban areas and increasing the purchasing power of those living in drought-affected areas. He said the government of Prime Minister Meles Zenawi was more commit­ted to development than because of serious shocks to the government should give begin a weeklong tour of previous administrations, tbe economy. up the war because of the region. but be also said there was a "This year, they have had drought in the country," he Bertini is also executive lot more it could do. (the impact) of the war, lack said. "I think that's a com­director of the U.N.'s World He added that Ethiopia's of rain and a drastic deteri­plete misunderstanding. We Food Program, which esti­23-month border war with oration in terms of trade did not call for the war, and mates 12. 4 million people neighboring Eritrea was because world prices of cof­we did not call for the are at risk in Ethiopia, having a tremendous fee, its main export have drought. These are unex­Eritrea, Djibouti, Kenya and impact on government fallen, while the price of oil, pected things we are trying Somalia. Bertini will visit all resources. its main import, has risen." to fight." the countries except "Any war of this size con­Simon Mechale, commis-When asked what the Somalia. sumes a sizable proportion sioner of Disaster government was spending Judith Lewis, the WFP's of national resources," he Prevention and on the war effort and the director in Ethiopia, said told The Associated Press Preparedness Committee, drought effort, he said it there was a possibility that after the conference. told reporters the war effort was "irrelevant." food aid could run out by "Ethiopia has had very little had not hampered the gov­The U.N. 's special envoy June unless formal pledges success sustaining the ernment's attempts to deal for the Horn of Africa, of cash assistance are made (development) process for v.ith the drought. Catherine Bertini, arrived in by the international com­any number of years "The implication is that Addis Ababa on Tuesday to munity. 

Columbian President seeks U.S. aid 
Associated Press  Dramatic increases in eradication efforts have been more than onset by  package unrelated to Colombia that were increasing the price tag.  
WASHTNGTON  a 50 percent increase in coca cultiva­ "I want him (Pastrana) to get this  
Colombian President Andres·  tion over the past two years, according  money ... but I have a higher obliga­ 
Pastrana, appealing for swift congres­ to congressional investigators. Oflicials  tion to the taxpayers or America. I  
sional approval of a two-year, $1.6 bil­ say 80 percent of cocaine entering the  have to do what I can to control thn  
lion counterdrug package, said  United States comes from Columbia or  growth of spending," he said.  
Tuesday that delays will only hamper  is transported through it. And, they  Predicting the money will be  
efforts to slop "tons and tons" of  say, Colombia is the source of most  approved, Lott said the wait will be  
Colombian-prorluced cocaine from  heroin ronsumed by Americans.  not much longfff than if it had gone  
entering the United St.ates.  President Clinton presented the aid  through the emergency process.  
Pastrana said cocaine production  request as an emergency supplemen­ Colombia is not getting rich off the  
!ms douhled over the past four years.  tal bill in January, and the House  drug trade, Pastrana said in the inter­ 
and he cautioned that the problem  approved it last month by a lopsided  view, arguing that much of the $500  
cannot be overcome without help from  margin. But Senate Majority Leader  billion it generates each year winds up  
both the llnitod Statrs and Europe.  Trent Lott, R-Miss., with whom  in the United States, with vory littlo  
"The sooner we get the aid, the  Pastrana will meet Wednesday, has  staying in his country.  
sooner we are going lo these (drug­ said he does not believe the measure  But, he said, Colombia has made a  
producing) areas not only to fight the  warrants emergency consideration.  sacrifice in combatting th<~ drug trade.  
drug lords and narcos involved in the  Lott told reporters Tuesday he sup­ investing $1.3 billion annually to curb  
business hut also to start promoting  ports the aid money for Colombia but  U.S.-bound 11ows of cocaine and hero­ 
alternatirn development," lrn said.  was concerned about additions to the  in.  

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 12, 2000 
Some sisters are allowed of our lives going to deal with She said that the communi­"It took me ten minutes to the opportunity to live with it?'' ty was very generous and get to work," she said. ''I'd go

Nuns 
continued from page I 
inant role of Catholic sisters has expanded to include fami­ly caregiving." 
Prior to th,! reforms of the Catholic Church in the 1950s, nuns were restricted from seeing and keeping in contact with family meml>ers. 
"The most amazing 
thing about 
''The most amazing thing 

this is that meet the they were about this is that they demands of 
prohibited were prohibitedfrom so many from seeing elders.
seeing their families at 

Sister at all [Rt one all [ at one time}. Margie Jones, a 
their families 
t i m c l , " However, it has been Burke said. 
member of
incorporated into their 

"II owever, it the Sisters has been rote as a sister." of tlrn Holy 
incorporated Cross, into their brought her
JoAnn Meyer Burke 

role as a sis­mother to

assistant professor of

ter." come live The nuns social work with her for 
their aging parents while still working on their mission, but for many that is not possible. Caregivers who had to com­mute to take care of parents, without transportation, expe­rienced much stress. In many Catholic institutes, caring for their own frail, elderly mem­bers takes primary considP.I"a­tion, but Burke said that it is hard for many com­munities to 

h a v e expanded their role to include family careg1v111g. According to Burke, siblings of sisters may have felt it was their duty. as they were not trying to raise a family or had no martial roles. 
Burke's second conclusion was that "Catholic sisters lack adequate preparation for the assumption of family caregiv­ing responsibilities." 
Many of the sisters joined their religious communities at such an early age that they never had to support them­selves financially. Burke said that Catholic communities still take responsibility for most of the fiscal, legal and property management of the nun's lives. 
Burke's final point was that "Catholic sisters lack ade­quate resources for family caregiving." 
six years. At 
the time 
.Jones was 64 and her mother was 89. 
Young people need to real­ize the extent of ageism and how longevity is increasing, said Jones. 
"It's as oppressive as racism, classism and sexism," Burke said. "By the time you are 30, you are going to encounter ageism." 
Burke feels societv is too focused on age. Women, espe­cially, have a tendency to feel the psychological effects of growing older. 
"The more we can interact between generations, the more understanding we'll have of the elderly," Burke said. "r think for a liberal educated woman corning out of Saint Mary's College, we need to think about [dealing with elderly and extended life spansJ -how is every aspect 


TIMBERLAKE WERTENBAKER 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Wed., April 12, 7:30 p.m. 
Thurs., April 13, 7:30 p.m. 
Fri., April 14, 7:30 p.m. 
Sat., April 15, 7:30 p.m. 
Sun., April 16, 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
Tickets am milable at Lafortune Student Center Ticket 0!!1ce. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631 8128 

Originally, Jones thought understanding in allowing her about taking a leave of mother to come live with her. absence and considered going Previously, Jones had been LO live with her mother up in living in the convent, but 
Minnesota, but decided against it. 
"What would I have done up there?" Jones asked. 
Although her mothrr was still able to drive and get around with little help from others, JonP-s worried about her. 

m o v e d into an 'The community helped apartment when her
provide whatever we 
mother
needed. They paid halfqf 
came. everything and furnished " T h o communi­
me with a rar." 
ty helped provide Sister Margie Jones whatever 
Sister of the Holy Cross we need­ed," Jones s a i d . " T h e y 
paid half of everything and 
"She had been living in her apartment on the third 11oor with no elevator and was hav­ing difficulty getting groceries up the stairs," Jones said. "So, l suggested she come to South Bend and livn with 1ne." 
furnisht>d m<' with a rar. Mv mom also had social security and some life insurance my dad had left for hPr." 
Jones was able to continue hAr ministry as a cataloguer in the Saint Mary's College lil.Jrary. 
home and get her and bring her to mass with me in the afternoons, and then we'd have dinner with the other sisters." 
Although Sister Jones has a brother, six yirnrs younger than her, it was never an option for her mother to go live with him. 
"Naturally, he thought it was up to me," Jones said. "When I asked for permission from him, it was readily given." 
Jones said she cherished every moment she got to spend with her mom. 
"We had a wonderful time together. It was more than a mother-daughter relation­ship. We were best friends," Sister Jones said. 
In 1993, Jones' mother passed away at ilrn age of 9S. 
"If I have her gc1rns, in the next generation, maybe I'll live to be 125," Jones said. 

THERE'S ONE GREAT THING ABOUT GOING FISHING HERE I THERE'S NO LIMIT. 

THE DE LI CIOU S BK BIG FISH® VAL U E ME AL. After one bite, you'll be hooked on our tasty fish filet topped with fresh lettuce and tangy tartar sauce along with crispy fries and an ice-cold drink. And best of all, this is one fishing spot that never runs out. 

HAVE IT YOUR WAY.•

The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
--------------------~-------------­
Wednesday, April 12, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 7 


Bush unveils tax credit and health care plan for poor 
Associaced Press 
CLEVELAND 

Continuing his outreach tu 
indcp<'ndent and moderatf' 
Democratic voters, Republican 
Georg<' W. Bush on TUfisday 
rollr,d out a five-year, $42 hillion plan lo help the working poor move Ufl inlo the mid d I e 


class. Bush T h e bigg1\S( sharn of money, $35 billion, would bo used for tax crndits lo liolp people who don't gel hectlth insuranl'e from thPir employers but earn too much lo qualify for governnrnnl pro-. grctms lik0 Medicaid. They could usf\ the credits to gai11 access to basic. private health rnrr. plans. An addilional $:i billion would bf' user! to provide health care through medical savings accounts. 
ThP. plan also would include $1 billion to help low-income renters buv homes and anoth­er $1 billic;n to give tax crndits to banks that match tho sav­ings deposits of poor µeople. 
The so-called New• Prosperity Initiative continues the prr.surnod Republican presidential nominee's out­
proposals. On Wednesday, he was speak­ing to a St. Louis audienc<~ about additioual health care plans. Aides said Bush also will unveil proposed spending cuts as parl of a broader gov­ernment reform plan 

While announcing his newest proposals for the poor, Bush was criticized for the lack of progrAss on health care at homo in Texas, whore he is in his second term as govPrnor and where up to one-fourth of the population lacks health insurance. 
" 0 LI r newspa­pers and television programs praise and profile all the win­nns i.n our high-tech economy, hut we must never become a winner­take-all society," Bu:;h told about 250 
reach to inde­pendents and moderate Demorrats by talking about subjects often ignornd by GOP candi­dates. 
In recent weeks, I3ush unveiled envi­ronmental and educational 
··our econnmy must also honor and reward the hard work q/factory and field. ofwaiting tables and driuing cabs -not just enterprise, but sheer effort. notjust technology, but toil." 
George W. Bush presidential candidate 

community and church lead­en, at the West Side Ecumenical Ministry on Cleveland's heavily Democratic West Side. 
"Our economy must also 

INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUlTION flNANCING 
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwider 


The TIAA-CREF Advantage. 

Year in and year out, employees at education and research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
Easy diversification among a range of expertly managed funds Solid performance and exceptional personal service Strong commitment to low expenses 

• Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options 
With an excellent record of accomplishment for more than 80 years, TlAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader:TlAA-CREF. 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it."' 

w w w. t i·a a-c r e f. o r g
iii 

• A.cconJ;ng to DALB/\R, Inc., a financial "'1Vices ,.,..,rch firm. In its most r,cent study, 1997 Defined Contribution E;cali,,ria, Ratings,TIAA-CREF was voted number one in partici­pant satisfaction. TIM-OEF lndi\Jidual ind lrutitutiomM Services, Inc.distributes. CREF certi~t.es and.interests in the TIM ReaJ Estate Acco1:1nt Teachers Pe~al_Investors Services.In<. d;mibutesthe .,.ri,ble component ofthe personal annuitie,, mutual funds and turuon <aving< agroement<. TTAA and TIM-<:REF Life Insurance Co.1m1e,nsurance and anr,uit;es, TIAA-CREF Ttust Company, FSB provides trust service<. lfflteslfflln'I p,oducu •~ not fOIC insuood. may lose value and aAI i,ot bank g1taran1HCI, far mo,~ complet<! information on Otll' securi~ peoduct,.including charg~, and expenses. call 1800 842-2776,""'-S50!>, for tile prospectuses. Read themcarefully belo<• >"'" irwestorsend money•.02000TIM-O!Ef 1/00. 
honor and reward the hard work of factory and field, of waiting tables and driving cabs -not just enterprise, but sheer effort, not just technolo­gy, but toil," he said. 
His Democratic opponent. Vice President Al Gore, imme­diately pounced on the propos­al. 
"Perhaps Rush calls this pro­posal his New Prosperity Initiative because fixing health care, affordable housing and lifting people out of poverty aro all new to him, since he has failed to address these issues in Texas," said a cam­paign statement. 
On health care, some 1.4 million of the nirnrly l l million children nationwide without health insurance are Texans. Only Arizona has a worse rate. 
From 1996 to 1999, 19:),400 Texas children. or 14.2 per­cent, wore dropped from Medicaid, according to a report by Families USA, a Washington-based nonprofit group that supports affordable health and long-term care for all Americans. 
About 25 percent of the 
state's overall population is 
uninsured. 
State officials counter that 
about 500,000 of the children 
who lack insurance will be 
eligible for the federal-state Children's Health Insurance Program beginning this spring. 
Rush's initiative includes: 

. 
A tax credit of up to $2,000 per family to cover 90 percent of health insurance costs. Also, permission for employeAs to roll over $500 in Flexible Savings Accounts from one year to the next, and to expand and make perma­nent Medical Savings Accounts, which are tax-free accounts for catastrophic health care expenses. 

. 
Support for legislation that would allow local public housing authorities to provide Section 8 renters -those who receive a government subsidy to pay market rents -up to a years' worth of vouchers in a lump sum to finance tho down payment and closing costs on a house. Other low-income renters would be helped with an "American Dream Down Payment Fund." 

. 
Build personal savings by supporting legislation that encourages Individual Development Accounts, or matched savings accounts. 

. 
Previously announced tax changes, including lowering the bottom tax bracket from 15 percent to 10 percent and doubling the per-child tax credit from $500 to $1,000. 



0

.0 C 3 
s 
(I) .£2 ­.c: 
:::, (.) c5'
·c:: (I)
,:::, 
:5 LOW :D 
N .c: 
'i::(.) :::, (')
:::, 
(I) 

~ 
C <
ar 

~ :::, 
co 0)


STUDENT 0 ,, ~ al 
CJJ a. 
0)

'E"' 
2 "C 
(I)

fl) !!?.
E 
<( 7J 
iil

0 
co

;:;; 
C 

0 (I) 


E AIRFARES :::, C 
E 
~ 

0
.c: ii! 
0) (.) ::;;
..le 
~ s:: 
0

Europe •Africa •Asia •South America 
(/)
C 
CD 

C) 
~ 

.c: "' More Than 100 Departure Cities! (') 
C C: 
(/)
CD 
C"

a. 
0 

C> Eurailpasses •Bus Passes •Study Abroad :::,
0 

CD s:: 
0) 

z (.) ~ 
a 
fl) 

·~ CJJ 
0)

CL 
0

student 
(I)

£ 0 
•com :::,

Zi 

ec=• universe
:::, 0) 
0 
t ~ 
C 

0 IT"S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT. 
"O 
C 
<
0 

_,I 
'­
0 

0 :::r 
0)
Cl 

-~ :::,
C: Cl> 
(/) 

Cf) C" 
C 


"' www.StudentUniverse.com :::, 
"'E !O 0
:,:i (I) 
fl) ~ < ~ 0 
::i:: 
::,
en 
co
0 

800-272-9676
C 

CD s 
::, :::, 
<.C

co 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 12, 2000 
Gore spends day at Ohio middle school 
. Presidential candidate discusses proficiency tests 
Associated Press 
COLUMHUS, Ohio 

In the middle of a school day full of smiles and upbeat talk, Al Gore walked into a contro­
versy over 
state-man­dated test­ing on Tuesday. 
Th er e was plenty of time for chatting at lunch with 


h i s Gore Avondale Elementarv schoolmatc-for-a­day, 9-year-old Beca Rawlins. They talked about pets, jokes and food, she said, and she promised "to tell my mom to vote for him because he's nice 
Principal Mary Ann Burns also prai.sed the vice presi­dent's visit, but she and at least one parent had strong words on the testing issue. 
In a state where controversy over mandatory proficiency tests is growing, the reading test. 
"I don' L believe a legislator should say a child should fail the fourth grade," she said. "I believe a teacher and parent and prinr.ipal should get together and decide whether a chi.Id should pass on to the fifth grade." 
Sherry Morales, whose son Jason took the fourth-grade test last month, told Gore that her son was upset. couldn't. sleep and was worried all the time about the test. 
"Kids really work hard, and this is one thing more to hold kids back in their grade," she said. 
Less than 2 percent of Avondale Elementary fourth­graders have passed all five proficiency tests, compared with about 13 percent city­wide and :~2 percent statewide. But the school is striving to improve with the help of smaller r!ass sizes. 
Gore spent almost seven hours at the 109-year-old red brick school, helping first­graders write a letter to "Mother Earth" pledging to pick up trash, drawing a col­lage of the Earth with a fourth-grade art class and vis­iting with janitors in a base­ment boiler room. He 

Democratic "You have to make sure has pledged presidential there's a balanced to spend a 
candidate day at a
attitude toward tests, 

said he sup­school every ported such that you have a good test week or two tests. during the
that's appropriate for the 
"We need campaign.
kids and isn't destructive 

to measure Gore used the perfor­but is constructive." Tuesday's mance of the visit to students release an
Al Gore

because "education 
presidential candidate

communities bluebook" 
are going to have an easi­er time putting the heat on the politi­cians. the school boards, the taxpayers and everybody else in order to improve the schools if there is a fair and accurate way to get a mea­surement of how the schools are doing," he said. 
On a softer note, he said that children who don't do well on the tests should be given extra help rather than be automaticallv held back. 
"You have to make sure there's a balanced attitude toward tests, that you have a good test that's appropriate for the kids and isn't destruc­tive but is constructive," he said. 
Principal Burns had nothing good to say about the state's fourth-grade guarantee, which beginning next year will hold students back a grade if they don't pass a 
summariz­
ing his pro­
posals that include universal preschool for 4-year-olds, smaller class sizes, testing new teachers, and making sure new and current teachers are qualified to teach their subjects. 
He pitched the value of early-education programs during a meeting with parents and teachers. 
"I think that dollar for dollar that's the single most valuable investment our country can make," Gore said. 
Later, Gore returned to Washington l'or a $1 ~million dinner of sea bass and choco­lated-di p ped pears. He was dining at the Mayflower Hotel with some 50 contributors, many of them drawn from Washington's gay and lesbian community, who gave the Democratic National Committee $20.000 apiece for the occasion. 



University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 


J\h£nb-::Mus1QVE 
CONCERT XIV 
~~~ ~cbola 

;!Mustcorum



·~~.'-~*~·.·.\ .•• J. 
9:30 p.m. Wed., Apr. 12,. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public. 
www.nd.edu/~music for more info 

Report looks at disabled students 
. Teachers are not prepared to handle students with increased needs 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Record numbl'Jrs of students with disabilities are being edu­cated in regular classrooms and few teachers are specially trained to instruct them, the Education Department said Tuesday. 
In 1996-97, 46 percent of the nation·s 5.9 million special r,ducation students spm1t most of their time in a regular class­room, up slightly from the pre­vious year's 45.9 percent, the department said. 
Judith Heumann, assistant secretary of the office of spe­cial education and rehabilita­tive service, on Tuesdav praised the end of the "days of turning away the students with disabilitiP.s at the schoolhouse door." 
But, she said, rnscarch on teachers suggests that students might not find a qualified edu­cator waiting for Hmm. Just 330,000 of the nation's 2.2 million teaching force are spe­cially hired to teach special education students; in 1996­97, 8 percent of them were improperly certified to teach those classes. 
Among general teachers, preparedness is worse: Four out of five teachers with sp!~­ci al education students in their classes reel ill-prepared to teach them, officials said. General education teachers are not required to have spe­cial education certificates, though nearly half of states. require some coursework in 1 special education. 
Heumann said colleges need to focus on training any teacher to instruct special­needs children -whose dis­abilities range from the physi­cal to problems with learning and behavior. 
"When you're looking at making the g~meral teaching population more effective, you 
need to have that be a basic part of the training," she said. 
That train­ing includes persuading more teacher candidates to be choose working with special educa­tion children, s a d Heumann, whose wheel­chair kept her 

"When you 're looking at making the general teaching population more effective, you need to have that be a basic part ofthe training. " 
Judith Heumann office of special education and rehabilitative service 
out of classrooms when she was a student. 
Paula Gardner, an associate professor at California State University, Sacramento, which combines special education and regular education training, said graduates there usually go on to teach in special education classrooms. However, they are trained to teach special edu!:a­tion students in regular class­es, she said. 
"District administrations arc seeing the value of this as a way of educating future teach-
against disabled 
ers," she said. "We can't grad­uate them f a s t enough." 
T h e 1 9 7 5 , Individuals w i t h Disabilities Education Act, which gives states money to help end discrimina­t i o n 
children, 
requires that disabled children be schooled with other stu­dents whenever possible. Previously, children were often put in institutions or separate programs. 


Happy 21st Col Love your Mc<ilinn Girls 




~.L·

Y~A. 
---p 


CYOCAMP 
RANCHO FRAMASA Summer Employment Available 
CO-ED RESIDENTIAL CATHOLIC CAMP IN NASHVILLE, INDIANA General Counselor Positions Available American Red Cross Lifeguard Training Available High Ropes Facilitator Certification Available Room and Board Provided Inclusive Programming June 2 -August 12 
For employment application or more information Call (toll-free): 1-888-988-2839 or E-mail us at : CYOCAMP@AOL.COM 
Wednesday, April 12, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9. 
SPAIN 
Police bust European passport ring 
Wo,man 's BQt>,ks·tore B'as-ketb,a.ll; 


Captai11s' Meeting 


It 
Boosktore Boosktore
Email: 
Office:
5

Bkstr.1@nd.edu 
631-6028
2000 
THIS WEDNESDAY EVERY TEAM MUST APRIL 12TH 5pm HAVE AREPRESENTATIVE MONTGOMERY THEATER LA FORTUNE 
BECAUSETHERE111/8REAID/III/OTTOP/Af 


. Criminals used Internet to sell false documents 
Associated Press 

MADRID 
Police have uncovered a crime ring whose members sold bogus passports and offered diplomatic privileges from a nonexistent country, authorities sairt Tuesday. 
More than 60 people used an Internet page to advertise passports from Sealand ­described on the Web as a principality based on an aban­doned military platform off the coast of England, authorities said. 
The passports went for $5,780, said Civil Guard spokesman Fernando Jimenez. The group claims on its Web site to have sold 160,000 of them since September 1998. 
A 48-ycar-old Spaniard, Francisco Trujillo Ruiz -who called himself Sealand's ruler -is the only person arrested so far. But officials have raided the ring's Madrid headquar­ters and authorities do not rule out further arrests, Jimfmez said. 
Spain's Civil Guard has requested cooperation from police in other countries to track down the rest of the group members. No arrests warrants have been issued. 
The Sealand Web page said the principality was founded more than 20 years ago by a Briton it names as Paddy Hoy Bates. The site shows a Sealand Oag and says the enti­ty follows international laws and issues its own passports. 
Spanish police started inves­tigating in November when a man detained in a fraud case claimed diplomatic immunity with a Sealand passport. 
The members of the ring have criminal records for drug trafficking and fraud, and some drove around Spain in cars with purported diplomatic license plates from Sealand, Jimenez said. 
He noted that among the people known to have held Sealand passports was sus­pected serial killer Andrew Cunanan. who shot and killed fashion designer Gianni Versace. 



The N"ot:re Dame Lat-V School N"at:ural La-i-v Inst:it:ut:e present:s 
Th-. 2000 
Na.taarc:11 ¦ Lc11w L.ac:t..r.a 
The Concept of Public l'Vlorality 

R b4> P­
Cii•=«>rg•= 
McCormick Professor of .Jurisprudence Princeton University 
Th-rsday• .A.pril 11 3. 2000 
4 .._..._ 
Nc»tre Dame Lavv Schc»c»I Cc»-rtrc»c»m 





VIEWPOINT 
O
fHE 

page I0 BSERVER Wednesday, April 12, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sumh Dining I !all, Nom,: Dame, IN 4655(, 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike ConnoJJy 
MANAGING EnlTOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 

1\sST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MA_'lAGl'R Tim Logan Bnan Kessl~r 
NEWS EDnoR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith ScENf EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR¥'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lmg 

ADVERTISING MANAGFR: l'll Peters All DESIGN MANAGER: Chis Avila S¥STEMS AoMINISrRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Tmner CoNTR0LU:.ll: Bob Wnods GRArHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGERiGENERAl. lNF0..............631-7471 FA.x......... .................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .. ··········••······63!-6900/8840 
ohserver@darwin.cc.nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EonoRIAssT. ME....................631-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu VIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE.. ......................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S........ ....................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMs/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.ml edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews 
minute forecam 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus mverage 
and rates ofprint ads 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published afier 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Ob.server is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial conrent, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisrration ofeither insritucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on concenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiel; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inforn1ation. 
Qumio11s reg,1rdi11g Ob,erverpolicie, should be direu­ed to Etl,tor in ChiefMike Connolly. 

As many of you already know, it is virtually impossible to flip through the channels and not see something regard­ing the Elian Gonzalez case. News broadcasters have camped out in front of his Miami home interviewing neighbors, family friends, legal experts; even the fishermen who resucued Elian. Everyone has something to say. What I think is most profound is the fact that there is one person, with nothing to say: his mother. This woman died in the ocean while trying to give her own son what she believed to be a better life. 
Every now and then we hear of immi­grants, sailing on rafts made of things unheard of', let alone buoyant. We shake our heads and usually give little thought to what it is they are sailing from. What are they sailing too? I can­not imagine living in a place where I cannot speak freely about the govern­ment. Think about how many Bill Clinton jokes you have heard in the last three years? Now, think about someone being killed for laughing at a joke about your leader. In some parts of the world, this happens everyday. 
It is fascinating to think that I live in this world where I can receive a free education up to high school. I can apply for financial aid if I need to and some­one else pays for my college degree. I could always find a job if I wantnd one. If it meant cleaning shoes in the airport.. I still get paid, If I were unemployed, I could get money from the government to live off of until I found another job. If I wanted to visit another country, I do not think President Clinton would stand in my way. I could create a magazine and give my political opinions support­ing or condemning government offi­cials who were elected. I can do all of that because I am free. But, it could have been a lot worse. That could have been my mom floating on that raft as I clung to an innertube floating to a country 90 miles away. 


What we have here is unique. Although, for many Americans, social injustices still occur. People are contin­uously discriminated against, people are still homeless and them is a lot of' improvement that needs to lake place. But, we all have the right to question and we all have options. 
In this college community, complaints are widespread. Some arc valid, and some need a little more thought. It is easy to find the negative in our academ­ic environments without giving ade­quate recognition to what is positive. 
I cannot help but think about a time when I overheard a student athlete complaining about how horrible schools are for not subsidizing athletes. I!is argument focused on the amount of money his school received from this particular varsity sport and how the people responsible for that were the players who did not see a dime of it. Ile folt that he was being used. Not once did I hear him say "At least I'm getting an education for free." I wanted to pull him aside and say: 
"Do you know !1ow many people would kill to get a degree from your school'?" 
"Do you know how many peopl!i are going to be in so much debt aft1:r they graduate from the same place you will'!" 
"If you are so unhappy, if your school mistreats you so much ... then why don't you just leave?" 
You have the option. You have the choice. 
I remember when I first decided to attend Saint Mary's. I knew there was not a substantial amount of cultural diversity. I remember my mom telling me that she was not sending me to col­lege to take over any administration buildings. She did however say that no one had the right to disrespect me. I knew that I'd be one of a small number of black women on campus. I did not expect to see "Sophisticates Black Hair Magazine" in the college bookstore. If I wanted to expose myself to a cultural experience, I knew that I'd have to put in some effort. If I wanted to immerse myself' in the "black experirmce" every­day, I would have gone to Spflllman College in Atlanta like my mom did. Fortunately, I have tlrn right to com­plain. As a student. I am in a position of' using a system that is designed to work for me. I have options. 
I have choices. 
You see, part of being who we are today is based on the choices we have made. It is important to question 1wery­thing and allow our voices to bn heard. We all have that opportunity and should take advantage of it. If them is some­thing you agree with, let sonwonn know. If there is something you are appalled with, let someone know. The most important thing is to do some­thing. You have that right. You have that option. You are that lucky. 
Kimmi Martin is a senior al Saint Mary's. Her column appears euery other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in Ihis column are those of the author and nol rwces­sarily those of The Obseruer. 
DILBERT 

E 
~ 
0 
I @) E " .. " 
:ii E 
0 
'c 

SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Courage is doing what you 're ajraid to do. There can be no courage unless you are scared. " 
George S. Patton WWII General 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Wednesday, April 12, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

I am writing in regards to the arti­cle on April 3 about the Notre Dame student who was raped on March 25. As membf'rs of the Holy Cross Community of schools, we would like to believe that instances likt1 these ,tre ram. We attend institutions with Catholic morals at their core and we are in turn all good Christians who would never harm our neighbors. However. I would like to break down the wall of silence about rape in this community. 
At the beginning of my second semester freshman year, my naive attitude towards rape was shattered. I walked into my room after a long night of drinking and going out with a guy I thought I could trust. I lay in my bed, hoping that what had just happened to me was not true. I woke up the next morning only to be quickly reminded of the events that had occurred the night before. 
I had been raped on Saint Mary's campus. I had been raped by a l'.'otre Dame student. My world crumbled before my eyes and the eyes of my closp, friends that did not know what they could do for me. 
To me, rape is like murder. My body was not killed, but my soul was. My energetic spirit and love for life were gone. I wanted my life to be over because I could not bare the pain of losing something that I had held sacred. My self-esteem and self worth were gone. The shame and guilt, too strong. 
I suffered in a state of depression for over two months, going to bed each night hoping that I did not have to wake up the next day. During Sexual Assault Awareness week, I saw the statistics regarding rape and was troubled about how I matched each majority. But what upset me the most was matching the majority of women who never report the crime. 
For most people, April 15 is the day our dreaded taxes are c:!ue. To me, it is the day after reading an ad in The Obsflrver stating. "You may think he took everything from you, but he didn·t take vour voice." Then I pickE'd up the phone, used my voice and reported my rape to Notre Dame Security. 
The months that followed were excruciatingly painful. l had been forced to sit in a room with a mirror that was really a window. I spoke into a tape recorder recalling every detail about the worst night of my life, making statement after state­mm1t. I had a disciplinary hearing at Notre Dame where I was forced to sit less than 10 feet away from my attacker, onlv to be dismissed, disrn­garded aml having my integrity rippP.d apart by a University I was raised to love by my father, who is an alumnus. 
I still question whether or not I should have made that phone call at all. Maybe in tho long term, I will be proud of the courage I displayed in standing up for myself, but while I'm still in the short-term, l have my regrets. Reading the article and how this Notre Dam() woman has not filed charges against her attacker is upsetting, but with the mindless dis­regard the University of Notre Dame has to rape survivors and with a societv that still blames women, I under.stand her actions to not come forward. 
It has been over a year since I was raped. I have come along way from where I was last April when I filed charges. I owe my recovery to my supportive family, my friends who stuck by me through everything, NOE 58, but mainly to God who con­tinually showers my life with bless­ings and reasons to be grateful for everything I do have in my life and has provided me with the strength to overcome this adversity. 
I still ha,ve my "bad" days when hearing drinking stories from my friends, having to read Observer articles about a baseball hero, who is my rapist, or trying to achieve a near impossible GPA this semester to get into the department ofmy major, which all serve as constant reminders of that night. 
I live faced with the reality of hav­ing to tell my future husband that sex to me is not beautiful or an expression of love, but ugly, forced and painful. Or my future daughters, when I have to sit them down and tell them about college life and hop­ing, pray!ng, they are not as naive as their mother. 
When I originally decided to write this letter, I was going to sign my name. Throughout coming forward and speaking to other women about what I have been through, many women have come to me and told me they were survivors as well. I would like to serve as an advocate for other rape survivors (I refuse to call us vic­tims). 
Rut I'm choosing to write this anonymously because I do not want to put a face or a name to rape sur­vivors. I am just the girl that lives down the hall from you, the girl who sits behind you in history class. 
The point of this letter is not to gain sympathy, but to show that no matter how much we try to deny it, how much we like to believe we live in a protective bubble from the rest of society, rape continues to occur in the Holy Cross Community of schools. That we have to become aware of these issues, become more sensitive, educated and not sit back and allow the University to permit tapists to be amongst us. 
Anonymous 
Saint Mary's April 5, 2000 

Administrators must take rape cases more seriously 
First of all, I would like to thank Professor Manier for writing the letter: Student Hapists must be expelled, swiftly (April 4). I agree with him 100 percent. 
Rape happens, and it happens at Notre Dame. Some might say that "ignurancu is bliss"; however, in cases of sexual assault, ignorance is dangerous. 
During my time at Notre Dame I was the victim of rape by a fellow student. For reasons cited by Professor Manier. l chose not to go through the court system and instead decided to use the avenues provid­ed to me by the University. 
I had the utmost confidence that the University would step up and go to bat for me becaus<' that's what "family members" do -they protect one another. I chose to involve the Office of Residence Life in this personal trauma because of the encour­agement and promise given to me by administrators that the University takes cases of rape seriously. 
However, much to the shock and disap­pointment of my parents and myself, the University did not take the high road and onsure my safoty and the safety of other students. They chose to sweep it under the rug and pretend it never happened. 
I not only agree with Professor Manier that du Lac should be rewritten in order to ensure the expulsion of rapists, I also think that the Office of Residence Life should take a step back and see if they are handling these horrendous cases in a manner consistent with the mission of the University, the moral principals of Catholic faith and the values bestowed upon us by Our Lady. 
Disheartened Daughter of Notre Dame April 5, 2000 
Drug abuse carries unintended consequences 
No question about it -rape is a terrible thing. It is a violation of personal bound­aries and demeans both victim and perpe­trator. I speak from my own personal experience when I state that it takes many years to work through the trauma of 
rape and gain or regain sexual self-respect. 
Perhaps the recent reflec­tions on rape that have graced the pages of The Observer will help those who have not been vic­tims of rape take pre­ventative measures. The horror is that all the preventative measures in the world cannot con­trol the disordered power drive of the rapist. But they can limit the odds of acquaintance rape, which often has more to do with lapse of judgment than a need to con­trol. 
In too many cases, the type of rape upon which the campus has been recently focusing its attention is caused by drugs and not power. At least one party has chosen to decrease judgment and sound decision making by partaking of a 
•

drug in such quantity as to increase the chances that unwitting behaviors will occur. Abstinence or responsible use will not guarantee complete safety, but they certainly will decrease jeopardy consider­ably. 
Absolutely, I am not saying that whoev­er willingly partakes in drug abuse deserves whatever happens to him or her­self. I would neither be so callous nor so wrong. But I cannot minimize the com­plicity involved in the choice to abuse a drug. Twenty-five years of treating per­sons whose lives have become unmanage­able because of drug abuse attest to my own experience that there may be dimin­
ished responsibility for what hap­
pens when one is under the influence of a drug, but there is still responsibility. One might make choices that
-----""""!~ one would not make 
without the influence of the drug, but if free choice was involved in the initial drug use, 

• 
, 
there is some degree of responsibility for the consequences of that choice. I make these points not to increase guilt, but to stress that choic­
es about drug use can have lasting consequences. 
Unintended sexual experience, inadver­tent damage to per­

~~~~~::---7 son or property, hurt­ful things said that cannot be taken back, even accidental death ­
•;..<.t, the choice to abuse a drug v, that leads to these unin­~~ tended consequences carries some degree of responsibility for the consequences, however tragic. 
By admission of both parties to the recent campus rape, voluntary drug abuse. preceded the rape. If it had not, the rape, most likely, would never have happened. Their drug of choice was alcohol. 
Father Stephen Newton 
Rector Sorin College April 10, 2000 

Viewpoint is now accepting Letters to the Editor for the commencement edition. Letters should be labelled "senior week" and should be sent to observer.viewpoint.1 @nd.edu 

T H 
E R 
page 12 Wednesday, April 12, 2000 
Irish dancers 'step' into South Bend 
By ANDREW McDONNELL 

.Scene Writer 
American rnlture is a shriek­ing. plaid walrus with a mouth­ful of radishes. Thal is to say: a strange and tinirky beast. Have we so quickly forgotten the 
Aust-Riverdance ralian 
invasion

. Morris Performing 
of the late Arts Center '80s vvith the lov­
. April 11-16 
ahlP­

. Tickets: $26-$59 
antics of Call 235-9195 for Paul Hogan
information 
and 
Yahoo 
Serious? 

What aboul the French Invasion of tho mid-'80s'? There was probably one of those. The curre11l Latin pop sensation is, of course, not to be ignored. Yes, this is Amertca. and our taste cruises the globe in a five-tiered jumbo jet, landing and taking-off as it pleases. 
However, some trends stay a little longer than others. One culture which bas had a partic­ularly fierce grip on the land­ing gear of our mainstream Jumbo Jet in the late 1990s is that of the Irish. The music of U2, the Cranberries, the Corrs and numerous others have gripped America's attention, not to mention literary works by authors such as Thomas Cahill, Maeve Binchy and every member of the f\IcCourt Familv. The evidence of Irish infiltration is everywhere, but one undeniably blazing exam­ple was discovered when PBS began airing the phenomenon of "Riverdance." 
When "Riverdance" comes to South Bend's Morris Performing Arts Center this week, the local community will be given the opportunity to drink deeply of the zeitgeist and walk away feeling trendily quenched. 
"Riverdance" is a dynamic e11tity and has grown beyond all expectation. It was original­ly designed as a seven-minute interval piece for the 1994 Eurovision Song Contest (the show which coughed up Abba in the 1970s. and a decade later. the bane of my existence: Celine Dion) and eventually burgeoned into its current form. "Riverdance" has explod­ed from a group of 26 dancers to an enterprise that currently employs over 180 danoirs in three companies: Tlrn Lagan, The Liffey and The Shannon. The troupe visiting South Bend will be The Lagan. r1amcd for a rivAr that runs through Belfast. 
"Rivcrdance" usually con­jures up images of an enor­mous line of Irish stop-dancers with Michael Flatley tapping away in the middle, wearing some shirt borrowed off a very large woman. However. the show is much morn than that; it is a multicultural event that focuses on Irish step dancing but also includes the tremen­dous \foscow folk Ballet Company, Flamenco Firedancers, the Riverdance Tappers. amazing live instru­mentals and a collection of singers with unbelievable voic­es. 
Michael Flatley splintered off to his own project, "Lord of the Dance" but his equivalent. in the Lagan Company, Michae-1 Patrick Gallagher, is a tremen­dous dancer. accompanied by the soul.-crushingly beautiful Tara Barry ­a championship dancer herself. 
I was fortunate to cakh up with a fow of The Lagan company's µerformers in a couple of local establish­ments, and am still currently recovering. One sur:11 performer, Lorraine Cotter, has been a singer with the group for three years, and Lorean Murphy has been a dancer for the group since Hs Eurovision inception. Apparently, judging from what I now find scrawled in my notebook, they shared a few of their observations with me. 

Scene: What has been the 
response to your performances 
horn in the States? Lorraine: It's just be1in bril­liant. Lorean: Even in the cities 
where you wouldn't expect it, like Grand Rapids, Mich .. the audi­ences have been brilliant. And in Germany, they're mad for it. Lorraine: And Japan. The Japanese love it. Lorean: England and Australia are fairly sedate. Scene: Arc you going to finish that? Lorean: Yes. Scene: Sorry. So Lorean, you have 
Photo courtesy of Riverdance online A "Riverdance" stepper strikes a pose during a performance. "Riverdance" (logo shown top) will be at the Morris Performing Arts Center in South Bend from April 11-16. 
seen "Riverdance" evolve from 
its original creation. What 
exactly was it like when 
Michael Flatley lr,ft tho group? 
Lorean: It was exciting. It was like we had to µrove our­selves as a group. And actually, the show got Lcttm-. That's nut tu take anything away from JFlatloyJ. It just. sort of took off. It was bound to happen. 
Scene: Is this yours? 
Lorraine: Yes. 
Scene: Ohh sorry. So. with 
life on the road, and moving to 
a different city every wAek. 
don't you ever get tired of it? 
Lorraine: Oh sure. There are times when I just want to go home. I just wanna go home. But then I think of the money. Ha! 
Scene: What's the hardest part of it? Lorean: Boredom. Boredom and contract negotiations. 
Lorraine: There's only so much you can du in every city when you're purely a visitor. 
Scene: llow do you fight it? 
Lorean: A lot of people are turning to books. 
Scene: No! 
Lorraine: Yeah. and a couple of people are taking correspon­dence courses. And one girl, Orla, does volunteer work in every city we visit. It keeps her real ... grounded, you know? That's the hardest part. 
Scene: But it's worth it in the end, or you wouldn't still be doing it. What has been the greatest moment you've had in "Riverdance"? 
Lorraine: One night there was this little deaf girl with headphones on and her dad was there next to her. She was feeling the stage, tapping her leg to the beat of the music. That was brilliant. Tlw kind where you just go ... "Jesus." 
Lorean: One time after a show this man walks up to us, and he says. Tm 70 years of age, and that is the most remarkable thing I have ever seen.' 
Lorraine: And you're there thinking, "geeze, and I did that with a hangover." It's the worst job to have with a hangover. 
Lorean: And you're not evcm a dancer! 
Lorraine: Standing still is just the worst thing to do if you've got the shakes. It's terrible! 
Another performer present that evening was the bass play­er and musical director, Paul Moore. I don't know what it was I asked him, but his reply came in the form of words once uttered by Brendan Behan upon being asked about the dif­ference betwceu poetry aud prose. Moore quot<~d: 
There once was a young man of Black Hock Who worked for Castor and Pollox He took a walk along Sandymouth Strand And the water came up lo his ankle 
" ... Now that's prosn," said Behan. "llad the tide been in, that would have been p(rntry." 
Regardlnss, "Riv<)rdancn" is not a show to b,~ 111iss1~d if pos­sible. It is a rare glimpse of the popular world scene right here in South Bend • and some or the best entertainment to touch the campus fringe in many a year. 

T H 
ce 
E R 
Wednesday. April 12, 2000 page 13 
Greek drama graces ND stage 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Obseiver 

In the play, "The Love of the Nightingale" actors Todd Dvorak and Kate Murphy discuss love, violence and relationships. 
evoke the play's ancient roots, unique. "Wertenbaker's script is in 1964, Bain has directed and including elaborate cloaks for the actually very short," said Bain. acted in more productions than feast of' Bacchus. The story's "She leaves much up to the visu­anyone else in the history of action is fittingly accompanied by alization of the scenes. We are Notre Dame Theatre. It is evident music remi1Jiscent of Greek flutes taking a ritualistic approach to that his presence and expertise and drums -haunting and the play, since Wertenbaker was will be greatly missed, although unsettling during pivotal obviously influenced by Greek Bain himself is modest about the moments, lively and energetic drama, but there is a modern significance of this last assign­during the dance scenes. The aspect to the play as well." ment. lighting is also effective in chang­Bain's role in "The Love of the "I chose {"The Love of the ing mood, shifting from a peace­Nightingale" is significant, as this Nightingale"] simply because I ful blue to a violent blood red. play marks his final directing could not put it down when I read 
It is this theatrical quality that assignment at Notre Dame. Since it. It is a powerful and moving makes the FTT's production he began teaching and directing story." 
By LAURA KELLY 
Scene Wrirer 
It is a play about silencB. This may seem like an ironic descrip­tion of a drama full ofchallenging dialo~cs and unforgettable l.incs. 
Yet. tho cnntral issues of
T i m b c r l a k c W c rte 11 baker· s "ThP Love or the Nightingale" arc the conflicts between the pow­prful anu the oppressf'd, bctwecn lhc faith­ful and the foilltless 
and bMwecn speech and silence. 
Notre Dame him. Television and 
Tlwatrn WIT) pre­S('nts an unf'orget­tablP look at lhe silrmcing of' .W0lllPn in its latPsl main­
"Th L 

stagP production. running this wl'Pk at Washington llall. 
"Tlw Love of' tlw Nightingale" is a rPtPlling of the· Groek myth of' l'hilomde. a young and b(mutiful Attwnian prinniss, and her broth­Pr-in-law TnrPus, thP King of' ThracP. After aiding the Atlwnians in lh1~ir war for incle­pPndPnl'.P, Tl'l'PUS asks for King l'andcon·s daughwr, Procne, in marriage. At lwr pan•nts· bid­ding. Procrw n•turns with Term1s to Thrac1\. AftPr a time, Procrrn grows unhappy, y<'arning for her sisl!\r and twr homeland and asks TPrPus to sail har.k to /\theHs and to rPlurn with Philomele. 
l'hilomc]p happily agrees to visit hPr sister. llowever. the niturn voyagP nweals Tcreus· ltw• naturn as he brutally rapes Philonrn!f! and violently silenres lwr when she thrnatens to expose his crimP. Philomele is kept hid­clPn from lwr sistPr for live years, but wlwn tlwy an• finally reunit­11d, they stiek their revenge. 
"The Love of the Nightingale" is a "powerful poetic state­ment,'' according to director Dr. Reginald Bain. "Wertcnbaker develops the play from the women's perspective, for.using lll1 the relationship between the 
e ove O e Nightingale" 
. Washington Hall 
. April 12-15 7:30 p.m. April 16 2:30 p.m. 
. Tickets: $9 general 
audience, student and senior citizen discounts 
offered. Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office or call 631-8128. 
f th 
sisters. the inter­play betweon other female char­acters and the vio­lc nce and silenc­ing of women." 
The numher of strong female roles was one of the play's features that atlracted Bain. "I was also drawn to the chal­lenges that [the drama! presents. This play is differ­ent in that it is not realistic. but the­atrical. We are asking the actors to dance. to work 
,-vith masks -things that they may never have done before." 
''Nightingalr.'s" talrmted cast is "a nice mix ranging from l'reshmen to seniors," said Bain. First year student Tara Murphy · balances Philomele's youthful optimism and wisdom. Brad Charron is an imposing and powerful Tereus. The two are joined by the strong ctncl gracc­fu I Procne (Louise Edwards) and tlm weathered nurse. Niobe (Elaine Bonifield). The rest of' the cast is equally polished, switching easily between the dif­fcre nt roles demanded by the complex action. 
'The Love of the Nightingale" is not only a moving and thought­provoking drama, but a tlrnatrical mastery as well. The stage con­sists of billowy rurtains and a rentral scenic unit. which revolves to r.reate different set­tings. Simple white dress is used as the base for costumes which 

Dogs and cats and humans and God 
Dogs and cats can be famous just like a look at some famous dogs and cats. Fred Basset -This is one famous dog morn and dad a lot more. 1woplc, only it rwver goes to their Scooby Doo -One of the greatest car­that I will never understand. He was Garfield -based on a real cat, !wads. They arc wonderful. tluffy little toon dogs ever. lie was a crime solver. always one of the cartoons that you Garfield is lazy and he likes to eat and big tTPaturns. It is easy to like lie was scared. but he was indispens­read just to see how bad it was. It was lasagna. This applies to most football them bncause we fnel we arc superior able -especially to Shaggy. Scoob and usually on the back of the cartoon sec­watching middle-aged men. He is the lo them -the same Shag had something in common; they tion with all of the mattress ads. cat for them. way that God prob­
were both sort of useless without each Spud Mackenzie -Hey, a dog that Heathcliff -This cat was a trickster. ably foels about us. other. Then again. they were kind of promotes beer. People like beer, and He was always being sly and getting \'Ve are like God's useless with each other. but at least when a dog seems to like beer, people big mean bully dogs frustrated. What a pets. And earth is they had each other. will tend Lo like that dog. Not only did guy. his petting zoo. Benji -Cute and cuddly. This dog was Spud become a symbol of good times, Tom -Of "Tom and Jerry" cartoons. lhipending on how a littl1~ kid's buddy. lie loved to be cute he also became a symbol of bar fights Tom was great because he never gave rutc our soul is. and cuddly. (he had a black eye). up. He was dumb and big. like athletes, God may loul'h us -Toonces -The funny cat of "Saturday Alf -Alf was not a cat or dog, but he but he kept trying. or hn ma.v not. Night Live." Ile is famous bemuse he is ate cats. Dog lovers love that. The cats and dogs we love the most 
I likP l<; pirtur(' the only rat who knew how to drive Eddy -The silly dog from Frasier arc alwavs the ones that sit on our feet
Scott Little 

myself' trying to before he died. Ile was a risk taker, won over many hearts. lie obeys his or backs'. They are the buddies that 11xplain things in and he had a f'unny face. human. He can jump really high. And push us over or bite our hand; the my room to a dog. Lady and tht' Tramp -Very cut.e. The his !'ace is funny. furry dudes that make our childhoods
just a little

"llpy dog, this is a classic "tail" of a rough dog from the Bingo -Who knows who this dog brighter and smiley-er. They arc the en playPr. .. I le just wrong side of the trar.ks falling in love was, but he got a song namP-d after ones that we look forward to coming wouldn't unclor-with a soft clog from the right side of him. Most people like singing, so peo­home from college. And they are just stand. Some things in life arH nrnanl to tlrn tracks. These two dogs are so easy ple probably like Bingo. as excited to see us. This can also be IH' a mysti•ry. For dogs, it's CD playnrs, to love becausl' they are going through Lassie -Loyalty, a great human trait. translated in terms of us and God. The phone hooks and l'ez dispensers. For the same kind of thing lhai we go Ile was also really good looking. best way to be buddies with God is to humans, it's bad things happening to through when we are falling in love. Old Yeller -A real gut wrenching know him on a personal level. Think of good p(iopk and wondering whrn the And sometimos it can get sloppy. dog. Just whon you think he is the him as a family member. Docs God sun will die•. Snoopy -He sleeps on top of his greatest thing ever, he ends up having have a list of famous humans, like we 
ll's nicn to think that since tlwrn are house. His hest friend is a bird. and rabies. People Jikf' him because he kind now have a list of famous cats and J'umous cats and dogs in the people every lime he talks you feel he is about of symbolizes a wn.y to get the kids out dogs? I don't know, but the reasons he world that maybe in the God world to throw-up. It's no wonder why he's of the house. rt is sad when he dies, likes us are probably much bigger. Tee 
there arc famous people, too. Let's take famous. because the kids will probably bug hee. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 12, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Martinez, Red Sox crush Twins in home opener 
rassing." Elster, who was out of baseball inning gave the Kansas City Bohanon (0-1) helped the Reds Associated Press 
Martinez allowed just three hits last year and made the Dodgers Royals a victory over the build a 5-2 lead after three and 
in his other four innings. His as a non-roster player, had the Baltimore Orioles. Griffey broke the game open 
BOSTON shoulder, still healing from major first homer in the cozy park, a The Royals, who had the poten­after singles by D.T. Cromer. 
The 100th home opener in surgery in June 1998, felt dis­third-inning drive off Kirk Rueter tial winning run in scoring posi­Chris Stynes and Barry Larkin. 
Boston Hed Sox historv turned comfort from a game-time tem­(0-1) that tied it at 1. tion in the ninth, 10th and 11th Hohanon gave way to former 
into their first win of the 2000s perature of 45 degrees. He hit a two-run shot in a inning, got an inlidd single from Heds reliever Gabe White, but 
without Pedro Martinez. 'Tm fine," he said, "but some­three-run fifth and added a solo Joe Handa to lead off the 12th Griffey foiled the strategy when 
Behind the pitching of his times the weather is kind of diOi­homer in the eighth off Felix against Tim Worrell (1-1 ). One he hit an 0-1 pitch into the sec­
brother, Ramon, and the power cult." Bodriguez, finishing 3-fnr-3 with out later, Johnson hit a shot to ond derk beyond right-center 
of Carl Everett, the Red Sox beat Everett connected from both four RBIs in the first t.hree-homcr left-center l'or his second home field. 
the Minnesota Twins 1 3-4 sides of the plate fi:Jr the fourth game of his r.areer. run of the s1mson. Like most hitters, Griffey has 
Tuesday. time in his career and raised his Chan Ho Park (2-0) allowed Jose Santiago (1-0) pitched the taken a liking to Coors Field, 
"It's important to show our season total to four. He also dou­three runs and six hits in six 121.h for the win. where he is 10-for-26 with five 
pitchers support." said Everett, bled in the seventh. innings, and Jeff Shaw got three Handa's three-run homer off homers and 15 RBIs. 
who homered from each side of The Red Sox, who hit .236 in outs for his second save despite reliever Al Reyes in the eighth Villone also looked comfortable 
the plate and has three in his last going 2-4, had 16 hits. allowing Snow's leado!T homer. tied the game at 5. The Boyals in his first start at Coors. His only 
two game:;. ''Our record doesn't "We had a nice game," Boston Bonds' RBI double in the first looked like they would win it in trouble came in the third when 
show what our pitchers have manager Jimy Williams said. "A scored Bill Mueller with the ball­the ninth, when they loaded the Brian llunter and Mike Lansing 
done. They've done a good job for lot of people contributed." park's first run and his third­bases with one out against B.J. exeruted a double steal and 
us." After a bases-loaded walk to inning homer gave San Francisco Byan. Jermaine Dye grounded Hunter scored when Larkin 
The victory by Ramon 11-1} Ron Coomer gave Minnesota a 1-a 2-1 lead. into a forceout and Mike Sweeney couldn't handle the throw to sec­
improved the Red Sox to 3-4. The 0 lead in the first. Boston scored Elster's homer and Shawn flied out to end the threat. ond. Larry Walker, 3-for-4 with 
other wins came in their first and twice in the bottom half off Joe Green's HBI single put Los Cal Ilipken homered in his first two RBIs, followed with a run­
sixth games when Pedro allowed Mays f0-1) on a walk to Jose Angeles ahead. 4-2 in the fifth, at-bat, leaving him five hits away scoring single that cut the lead to 
one run and struck out 23 in 14 Offerman, a double by Trot but Jeff Kent scored on a wild from 3,000. Ripken, who started 5-2. 
1-3 innings. Nixon, a sacrifice f1y by Brian pitch in the sixth. the season with 2,991 hits, got 
Fenway Park, which opened on Daubach and a single by Geronimo Berroa had an RBI home run No. 404 on a 2-0 pitch 
Expos 7, Pirates 3 

April 20, 1912, became the oldest Garciaparra. Everett began the single off Alan Embree in the sev­from rookie right-hander Chad Jose Vidro hit a pair of two-run ballpark in the major leagues fol­second by homering in his first enth. and Mirabelli's homer off Durbin. I-le was 1-for-5. 
homers and Lee Stevens added a lm,ving Detroit's move from Tiger plate appearancP. at Fenway Terry Adams pulled the GianL-, to The Orioles led 5-2 when Heves two-run shot off Kris Benson as Stadium this year. Park, the 10th solo shot among 5-4 in the bottom half. relieved Sldncy Ponson and gave the Montreal Expos won their A sellout crowd of 33.114 filled Boston's first 11 homers. up a leadoff double to Carlos firth in six games. beating the Fenway on a chilly day and gave A walk to Mike Stanley, a dou­Febles to start the eighth. One

Indians 5, Athletics 1 Pitl.:;burgh Pirates. 
Everett, obtained from Houston ble by Wilton Veras and walks to out later, Jermaine Dye walked
Charles Nagy allowed four hits Vhlro,whohad 14home~in 
in the offseason, a standing ova­Offerman and Nixon gave Boston to set to up Randa's two-out
in eight innings and David Justice 290 games bdore this season, hit tion as he r,ame to bat in the sev­a 4-1 lead. An error by Mays on homer.
homered as the Cleveland a two-run shot in the third fol­
enth follov.ing his two homers. Daubach's hard comebacker led After Hipken homered in the
Indians defeated the Oakland lowing Peter Bergeron's single
"It kind of pumps you up, but to the fifth run and Gardaparra's second, Will Clark walked, Mike
Athletics 5-1 on Tuesday night and another in the seventh after 
then I get back down," he said. "I two-run single made it 7-1. Bordick doubled and Brady
for their fifth straight victory. Bergeron tripled in a run. 
don't want to get too excited, but An RBI single by Troy O'Leary Anderson made it 3-0 with a two­
Nagy (1-1) struck out eight and Bergeron and Vidro, the topit was good for the fans. They got and a two-run single by Jason run single.
did not allow an Oakland two hitters in the Expos' order,
what they wanted." Varitek completed the rally. Anderson hit a solo home run
baserunner past second with the combined to go 6-for-10 with two 
AL batting champion Nomar "It wasn't a game. It was a ter­in the fifth and Harold Baines
exception of' Jason Giambi's homers. a triple, live HBls and 
Garciaparra went 4-for-5 with rible event," Kelly said. made it 5-2 with an HBI single in
fourth homer. four runs scored while reachingthree RBIs after coming into the Minnesota made it 10-2 on the seventh. 
Nagy improved to 12-5 lifetime base eight times. 
game at 4-for-22 with no RBIs. Coomer's homer leading off the Durbin, who gave up just one
against the A's, who lost for the Stevens restored Montreal's 
Boston took charge early with sixth against John Wasdin. hit in six innings in his first major 
fourth time in five games. lead at 4-2 after the Pirates tied it 
two runs in the first and eight in Boston scored three in the sixth league start Ja-,t w1iek at Toronto,
Justice hit his third home run on Pat Meares' two-run triple in 
the second. on Everett's two-run homer and allowed four runs and five hiL<, in
of the season against Omar the third. 
"We were bad," Minnesota Veras' run-scoring single, and 5 2-3 innings. He walked four
Olivares (1-1) on the first pitch of Stevens hit a two-run shot that 
manager Tom Kelly said. "We Minnesota made it 13-4 in the and struck out two. 
· the third inning to give the barely cleared the left-field wall 
pitched bad. We fielded bad. We seventh on a run-scoring ground­Ponson allowed two runs and
Indians a 1-0 lead. near the foul pole in the fourth 
didn't do anything good and they out by David Ortiz and Matt five hit-, in seven innings.
Roberto Alomar singled to lead inning for his ser,ond homer in had a great ballgame." Lawton's RBI double. 
off the fourth, and eventually three games. 
Ramon Martinez appeared 

scored on a double play. He Reds 10, Rockies 3 Benson (0-2) struck out a 
·headed for his second straight 
Dodgers 6, Giants 5 added a sacrifice fly in the fifth. Ken Griffey Jr. wa-,ted no time career-high nine in seven 
early exit, struggling with his 
Kevin Elster made a splash in Travis Fryman walked to open getting started on his next mile­innings, but was roughed up for 
control as four of Minnesota's 
the opener of Pacific Bell Park, the fifth and advanced to second stone, hitting his 13th career his second consecutive start byfirst five batters reached to put and he·didn't even put the ball in on Sandy Alomar's single. Kenny grand slam to lead the Cinr:innati allowing seven runs and nine the Twins ahead 1-0. 
the drink. Lofton hit into a fielder's choice, Reds over the Colorado Ror,kies hits. 
"In the first inning, I was upset Elster homered three times to sending Fryman to third. Fryman Griffey, who on Monday Javier Vazquez (1-0) apparent­with myself," he said. "Then I overcome one each by Barry scored when Olivares' pickoff became the youngest player to hit ly wa<,n't bothered by a two-hour,said, 'This is not going to hap­Bonds, J.T. Snow and Doug throw to first sailed into the 400 home runs. was 2-for-4 with two-minute rain delay thatpen.• I have to throw the ball over Mirabelli and lead the Los Indians' bullpen. Lofton scored five HBis. He has homered in delaved the start until after 9 the plate. I have to get a good Angeles Dodgers over the San on the sacrifice flv. three straight games. p.m.: yielding three runs -tworhythm."' 

Francisco Giants. Fryman added· an RBI single in Dmitri Young added four hits, earned -in six innings for the 
In his first .start last 

Before a sellout crowd of the sixth. Olivares allowed five including a three-run homer for victory.
Wednesday, he allowed seven 40,930, the $319 million stadium runs -four earned -and six the Reds, who have at least one Steve Kline, aided by double runs in 1 1-3 innings at Seattle. 
by the bay near downtown for­hits in 5 2-3 innings. home run in each of their first plays in both the seventh and "We didn't take advantage of mally opened with many in short nine games. That was plenty for eighth innings, finished up with Ramon in the first inning and it sleeves. It was in stark contrast to Hon Villone (2-0) as the left-han­three scoreless innings for his
Royals 7, Orioles 5

might have been the difference in the wind and cold at Candlestick der held the Rockies to two runs first save.
Brian Johnson's two-run
the game." Minnesota's Todd 
Park, the Giants' home for four and four hits in seven innings. The Pirates have lost three in a
homer with one out in the 12th
Walker said. "Its kind of einbar­decades. Young's homer off Brian row to drop to 2-5. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business d.iy from 8 a.m. to 3 f.111. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.111. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, induding all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit ,tll dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Babysitter for 2 kids Evenings approx. 4-9:30 Nights vary. Transportalion a must. Please call 287-6352 Seeking responsible caregiver for 2 B&B THE COPY SHOP Stop sleeping on the couch! It's not Agnes ­children 287-4545 laFortune Student Center comfy Take me, break me, make me a Mon and/or Tues, 7:30-5:30 High-Speed Copying man!

NOTICES 
Transportation and references Nice homes Color Copying Hey ... it's ok, MJW ... road trips are -Brad 
necessary 631-7051 north of ND Resumes always a possibility. THE COPY SHOP in good area Business Cards cheetos, coffee and aspirin · a bad LaFortune Student Center 277-3097 Fax Service And I love road trips. combination Store Hours Desktop Publishing Mon-Thur 7:30am-Mid Rental houses And a whole lot more1 My throat hurts. But it's 1 am and bring on bookstore Fri: 7:3Dam-7:00pm for 4·6 students Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery we're getting there bring on the rain Sat: Noon-6:00pm with large rooms. Call 631-COPY Sun: Noon-Mid W&D. Bed, please! C, Land T. Free Pick-Up & Delivery' Full-time temporary maintenance 291-2209 Dave Feel better, Cassie. did you know that I got a phone Call 631-COPY We're open late so position available Some experi· Kessler. call? your order will be done on time! ence necessary. Plaase call 272-Keep working Nell ... in one week you think you'll be laughing last? 
1441 for a confidential interview. we will be busting out in CANADA! Trust me · I always get what I set can you guess from who?
PERSONAL 

Crossing lhe Border ·oo, take 2 my mind on -even the infamous #3 dinner or phone? I'll take the 
WANTED 
Need help with a project? But we're missing our third traveler. Meau -phone.
FOR RENT 

Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING She'll be tanning in Florida. ain' nuttin' wrong with 18 and 32. SUMMER JOB: Caregiver; two chi!· services are available at No one will mess with us marco says hi. 
dren, ages 7&8. Mon-Fri,7:30AM-Apartment for summer sublease THE COPY SHOP Plaid shirt man will miss her. call him. 3:15PM, Jun 12-Aug 18 Granger. College Park -2 bedrooms, fur­LaFortune Student Center Chrissy poo­272·6107 or 284-3485 nished Call 243-8194 Ca/1631-COPY Do you think Mark can handle it? thanks so much for your help/ red doorknob 
................ ........ .-...... ".·-·····•·••· ....... ,. ........·
~ 


Wednesd:ir, April 12, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Buccaneers, Jets negotiate Johnson trade deal 
the Tampa Bay Buccaneers this A source close to the negotia­contingent on Tampa Bay sign-wide receiver they want for
Associated Press 
wePk if the star rer.eiver can tions told The AssociatPd Press ing Johnson. · what has been a staid offense, NEW YORK agree with lhe team on a new today the Bucs and New York "It's only up to Keyshawn and and the Jets would have enough KPyshawn Johnson will join contract. Jets havo agn•ed on a trade, his agent," said the souroi, who to pnrhaps trade up for tho No. requested anonymity. "The 1 pick with r:Jeveland. 

teams have an agreement, but Johnson, the No. 1 ovPrall pick the Rues have to reach some­in 1996 and one of the NFL's top thing with Keyshawn." receivers, has been trying to
Erhu Recital by Ms. Ma Xiaohui 
If thA dAal goos through, New renegotiate a contract that will York, which has the 16th and average about $2 million, with
April 16, 2000, 6:30 pm: Jordan Auditorium 

18th overall picks, would incentives, for each of' the noxt rncAive Tampa Bay's two No. ls. two years.
College of Business Administration, University of Notre Dame 
Nos. 13 and 27, and probably The two-time Pro Dowler, gen­one of the Bucs' starting wide erally considered the Jets' best receivers, Bert Emanuel or player, wants a long-term deal
Erhu Soloist, Ms. Ma 
Heidel Anthony. that would pay him between $6 The Hues would get thA impact million and $7 million a season.
Xiaohui, is one of the most outstanding traditional musical instrumentalists in China and 

Saint Mary's College presents Tennesee Williams' play 
the concertmaster at the Traditional Music Orchestra in Shanghai. She has performed regularly in China, Japan, Europe and the United States and recorded over 30 CDs. 
Thursday-Saturday, April 13 -15, 2000 
She won many musical awards and was the first musician to 

;~~:~:·April 16 at 2:30 p.m. 
~;{gfijfj{)

L. I Th 
FOR THE ARTS

,tt e eatre NOTRE DAME, IN
give an erhu recital at the 

For.ticket information contact 284-4626
Shanghai Spring Music 

the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 
Festival. Erhu, a two-string fid­dle, is an old Chinese instru­

~,.,,,1111,;u;;,u,
ment, the earliest record of Admission: Family: $5.00; Adult: $3:00; 
which dates back to the Han 

----Ii 
Student $2.00 

University Web Administration 
Dynasty, around 500 AD. 

Summer Positions I
Ill

Come Join our ream
Sponsored by South Bend Chinese Language School, Center of Asian Study, Notre 
Ill

and work on 1he University Web Site! 
I
Dame Chinese Friendship Association and College of Business 
. lil~

Web Poge Design . Requirements: Fluent in HTML.. web page design and 
I 

Joyou1. Fom11iar with Dreomweover, Fireworks, and ~ FronlPage 2000 a plus. Ill 
Wab Poge Programming . Ill Requirements: Fluen1 in HTMi. UNIX, Pearl, F1lemol:.er Pro, ~
SENIOR WEEK 

JavoScrip1. Famifiar with SOL, ~.SP. Ill 
Hours: M-F 8•5 20-40 hours a week 
I
TICKET SALES KICKOFF 

will work around students clas:s: :.chedule 
I 

SLJbm1 cppllca1ion c~ http:/1.web.nd.ed.J/s!LJdenlapp2.shlml 
ii
Friday April 14 
I 
~I!] 
10AM-2PM 

A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 
Notre Dame Room, Lafortune 
. Limited tickets available for select 
~

... _._I\.: "', College is a time for decision ·•"' Choose to become a leader
..,. 
.
events -buy tickets early 
~·-, ..
. Bring your Student ID 


· · \, Making Leaders for the Air Force and 
· ,,, · Better Citizens for America
. Cedar Point,, Cubs Game,, Senior 

~-,
Formal and more . Buy limited edition Senior Week shirts 
Cadet Gamache 
. Free refreshments . Check your email or Class of2000 website for ticket prices 
Questions -Call Andrea 233-3783 or Julie 634-3772 

Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun. it's time to make your decision, now. 
Contact Captain Klubeck -631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 12, 2000 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 

few teeth and weren't so pearly white. 

Bookstore Results for Tuesday April 11, 2000 

Mach I Jizm def Team 125 (21-7) Driven def 5 questions (21-2) The Broom Ponies def. Nothing but net (21-8) Franchise def Teamwork Shocker def Who's the Animal? Vigilante Justice def. Busta Beef (21-19) Scrub Scouts def. Peggy Watson (21-18) Applejax and Candice def. 4 midgets bringing the Heat (21-2) Attractive Nuisance def. 5 Credits short (21-10) Nappy Dugout def Dees Nutz (21-14) Ten Minutes Faster def. The Married Mafia (21-6) We've got your Wojo def. Wonder Bread (21-5) Team 108 def. Team 126 (21-3) The Raging Stools def Cinderblock Cinderellas (21-9) Beans above the frank def 4 Hookers and out Pump (21-11) Venerable Predators def. C.J.'s Finest (21-10) Better late than never def. Guys who dribble between their legs (21-19) Nuggets def. Hot rolled and reinforced (21-7) Rockers and Monkeys def. The Spectators (21-4) Put your Bizness Away, Debo's Comin' def. Donkey Punchers (21-17) Homeboys, Kingrats, Legits and New Jacks def. Pink Torpedoes (21-17) Versatility def. Bullfrogs (21-7) Free Ballers def. Team 267 (21-1) All of the following are disqualified def. Do we get a point for being sensous? The Chauncy Pieces def. Dead Sexy Beotches (21-11) Slap Nutz def Rich and Creamy Treat (21-19) 
JOSE CUELLAR/ The Observer 

I 
I 
'Tm the momma, and Lhf'se are my five boys. They're great boys." Hogero said. "We're just out here to play some ball and have some fun. This is our fourth year, and we're looking for our first win this year." 

The guys of Relative Attraction, who didn't attract too many women with their outfits Tuesday, showed up early to prepare the entertain­ment. They brought a baby pool and filled it a rank-
smelling mixturn of food: toma­to soup, fish, chocolate syrup, baked beans, maple syrup, flour and much more. During the game, the players Jumped in the pool and rolled around for awhile. If nothing else, the odor made it hard for Sofa King Good to guard Relative Attrur,tion. They also brought a grill to barbetue corn on the cob. on which Strobel munched during the game. 
"I think it's going to get messy," Garry Heuter of' Sofa King Good said before the game began. 
Onlooker P.H. Sutherland said, "These guys are crazy." 
And  things definitely got  
crazy.  
The  men  of  Relative  

Attraction chased each other across the court. ignoring what was occurring with the basket­ball. They rode piggybatk with one another. And Fehrenbacher, who wore pro­gressively less clothing as the game went on, mooned the crowd. 
But Relative Attraction didn't get evf)rything it came for. The two teams called the game at 16-2 in favor of Sofa King Good. 
Then it was time to see some serious basketball players in action. No. 1-ranked Keyplay.com strutted its stuff against A-Team -We Like To Score. dunking numerous times and tilling out the scoreboard with three-pointers and off-bal­ance reverse layups. 
Football player John Teasdale crossed over to bas­ketball to score the first points of the game for Keyplay.com. But Keyplay.com let its opposi­tion stay in the game early by not rebounding, passing up easy looks at the basket in favor ol' impressive dunks and Jallowing the A-Team girls to take open shots. 
Erin Mcllugh scored several baskets for the A-Team early, and yelled, "She's morn~y. she's money" as shf, ran down the court. 
"They were pretty fun to play with," McHugh said. "They didn't mind when we talked a little smack to them. Thev talked a little smack back." · 
Aftpr "half-timr~," however, Keyplay.corn demonstrated why it tops the rankings, even though it allowed the girls to use all six people on their ros­ter at once. 
Varsity basketball point guard Jimmy Dillon doubled his regular-season total of slam­dun ks with two, dished off a number of assists and hit sev­eral sweet jump shots. Seniors Tom Dietrich and Cas Schneller added dunks of their own. Paul Moore wowed onlookers with his no-look reverse layups. 
"They had some size that we weren't expecting," Schneller said of the A-Team. 
The top-ranked squad played with good sportsmanship by not running up the score. The guys even cheered in a couple of the girls' shots and told them good hustlli. And they posPd for a picture with their first victims of the tournament at game's end. 
Although the A-Team couldn't give Keyplay.com a run for its money, the girls weren't overly impressed by the guys· play. 
"I intercepted Jimmy Dillon's pass," Stacie Green bragged. 
And Maureen Hillenmeyer added. "They're bad at dunk­ing." 
That's a challenge for Keyplay.com·s next game. 




New economy. New talent. 
Arthur Andersen is proud to announce the following University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students have accepted to join 
the Arthur Andersen team. 
John Arecha -Chicago Erich E. Bangert -Chicago Brian Bastedo -Chicago Brian Belden -Cleveland Ameya G. Bijoor -New York Mary Ellen Blumreich -Milwaukee Sandra L. Burns -Houston George Carr -Chicago Brian S. Clarke -Washington D.C. Leo Dallemolle -Chicago Brooke M. Davis • Chicago Sarah A. Dilling -Washington D.C. 
Erin S. Donohue -Chicago Nicolas Eliason -Chicago Steven M. Fiamingo -Chicago 
Brad W. Fitzgerald -Los Angeles James W. Frank -Chicago Christopher D. Gahagan -Louisville John M. Gavigan -Denver Julia C. Gillespie -Chicago Jennifer L. Hall -Chicago Melissa Haynes -Chicago Laurie Healy -Chicago Kimberly A. Jakob -Chicago Charles P. Kavanagh -New Jersey Grant Lee -Chicago 
Julie K. Lynk -Chicago James Malloy -Chicago Robert N. Martin -Denver Wilbert E. Matthews -Chicago 

Brad McDonald -Chicago Charles P. McKenna -Chicago Michelle L. Mendoza -Atlanta Shawn P. Miller -Chicago Maureen Misener -Chicago Nicole C. Moye -Chicago Angelina M. Mustico -Chicago Jennifer L. Nall -Chicago Aaron O'Donnell -Washington D.C. Marie O'Neill -Chicago Ellen Onsi-San Francisco Jill M. Pentimonti -Washington D.C. 
Allison P. Pike -Dallas•Ft. Worth Kristi L. Rebresh -Denver Thomas Reynolds -Washington D.C. 
John L. Schwager -Chicago Erica M. Sciola -Seattle James H. Shacklett -Philadelphia Shane D. Slominski -Minneapolis Eileen A. Spillane -New York Benjamin P. Stauffer -Pittsburgh Mary Sullivan -Chicago Rebecca A. Thompson -Chicago Britta K. Totte -Chicago Michael Tribe -Chicago Job Turner -Chicago Robert Warn -Minneapolis 
Krishna L.Woods -Chicago Kelly Zalinski -Chicago 
Assurance • Business Consulting • Corporate Finance • eBusiness Human Capital • Legal Services • Outsourcing • Risk Consulting • Tax Services• 
Note: The services offered in particular areas may depend on local regulations. In some locations, 
legal and/or tax services are provided by Andersen Legal, the international network of law finns that is 
associated with Andersen Worldwide SC. 

, 
Arthur Andersen refers to the U.S. firm of Arthur Andersen LLP and other members of the Arthur Andersen 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
global client service network. ©2000 Arthur Andersen. All rights reserved. EOE. 


w~dnesday, April 12, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Hughes leads Warriors in victory over Grizzlies 
Associated Press 
OAKl.AND 

I.arry I lughes scored 28 points and Jason Caffey and Mark Davis earh added 25 as tlrn Golden StatP Warriors bPat the newly purchased Vancouver Grizzlies 
I 09-97 Tuesday night. 
The loss was the first for the (irizzlies under owner !\lich,wl ll<'islt>y. whosf' purr.hase of the tr.am was approved unanimously earlier in the day by the NBA's Board of Governors. 
Adona! Foyle added 15 points for the Warriors. who won con­serutive games for the first time sinrn !ale February and took the fo11r-gaml' season series with the Grizzlicis 3-1. 
Michael Dickerson scored 24 poinl'i lo hmd VancouvPr. which kept it close until Golden State pulled away at the end. outscor­ing the Crizzlh~s 31-20 in the fourth quarter. SharcP.l' Abdur­Hahim added 23 points and had 13 rr.bounds and Othella llarringLOn had 14 points. 
Down by one at thP break. (;olden State nut toirr1thcr a l0-0 burst -including eight straight points by Hughes -to move ahead 64-60 midway through the third quarter and took a 78-77 lead into the final period. 
The Warriors took control from there. starting the fourth with a 14-2 run that carried them to a 92-79 lead. the first double-digit lead nfthe night. 
Caffey had six of his points in the burst and Davis. making his lhird straight start for injured DonyPll Marshall. punctuated it with a steal and putback followed by a reverse two-handed dunk off a lob pass from Mookie Blaylock. 
Abdur-Rahim converted a three-point play but it wasn't enough to break up Lhc Warriors' mom1rntum. Tonv Farmer and Davis each finished fast breaks wilh layups and liughes hit a 17­foot jumper to put Golden StatP up by 14 with 5:40 left. 
The Grizzlies didn't threaten after that. 
Rockets 103, Nuggets 93 
Walt Williams had 23 points and 12 rebounds and the Houston Horkots outsrored the DPnver Nuggets 14-2 in the final 

6:20 to win their fourth straight game. 
Williams was 7-of-12, making all four 3-point attempts, but had only a 3-pointer in the sPc<md half. Kenny Thomas and Cuttino Mobley added 15 points each for the Rof'keL<;, who avoided losing the season series to Denver for the first time since 1993-94. 
Nick Van Exel led the Nuggets with 27 points and 11 assists. Raef Lafrentz had 16 points for Denver, which lost its second straight and had won two of the previous three meetings. 
Houston took control late as Steve Francis tied the game 91­91 with 6:20 lPft and Thomas hit Lwo shots over Antonio McDyess. Shandon Anderson hit a reverse layup and Williams sank a 3­pointer before Van Exel stopped a nearly five-minute Denver drought with a layup. 
But the Nuggets never scored again. 
Denver took a 78-7 4 lead into the fourth quarter. but Matt Rullard's 3-pointer provided the Rockets with a brief 81-80 edge. 
McDyess' fadeway jumper got the Nuggets the lead right back and baskets bv Van Exel, Keon Clark and George McCloud gave Denver a 91-87 lead. 
Trailing 51-45. McCloud awak­ened the Nuggets with six points and set up a layup by LaFrentz with a perfect pass as they took a 62-61 lead midway through the third quarter. They extended the lead to 67-61 as LaFrentz hit a layup and free throw, then Van Exel nailed a 15-foot jumper while the Rockets went 2-for-10 and turned over the ball four times. 
Spurs 98, Kings 92 OT 
David Hobinson scored six of his 26 points in overtime and also grabbed 15 rebounds as the San Antonio Spurs defeated the Sacramento Kings. 
Tim Duncan had 18 point.<; and 13 rebounds for the Spurs. who outscored Sacramento 14-8 in overtime to win their third straight. game. 
Trailing 86-84 early in the extra session, Terry Porter got San Antonio even with a jumpPr. 

We didn't become Fortune• magazine's America's Most Admired Company* by accepting the status quo. We got there by hiring and training graduates with the confidence and courage to think in innovative and revolutionary ways. 
No other corporation can match the diversity ofopportunities at GE. Because we have small company attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, and never leave GE. 
We're a leader in everybusiness we compete in, and we're looking for leaders like Ayako who will take us even further. Start your career byvisiting our website now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Learn about us at 

www.gecareers.com 
GE CFO Keith Sherin to Conduct Strategy Session with MBA Students 
April 14, 2000 11:00AM-12:30 PM 
Jordan Auditorium 
Keith Sherin (ND '81 ), Senior VP & ChiefFinancial Officer ofThe General Elutric Co., will conduct a strategy session with studentsfrom lhe ,WBA School's Strategy Cour:se. This session is o-pen to the ND Community... please join u.s! 
We bring goad things to life. 
Duncan put the Spurs ahead with an outside shot and Hobinson fol­lowed with a basket inside and two free throws, to make it 92-86 with 1:06 remaining. 
Jason Williams had 17 points. nine assists and eight turnovers for the Kings. Nick Anderson scored 16 points and Predrag Stojakovic added 14. · 
Robinson made 1-of-2 from the foul line with 15.. 3 seconds left. to tie il at 84. After a Kings turnover. Johnson missed a baseline jumper with one second left, sending the game into over­time. 
Divac made a short baseline shot and Stojakovic followed with an eight-footer in traffic. putting Sacramento ahead 84-83 with 28 seconds remaining. 
Mavericks 92, 
Trail Blazers 81 
Michael Pinley scored 24 points and Dirk Nowitzki added 21 and 14 rebounds as the Dallas Mavericks won their fifth straight game over the Portland Trail Blazers. 
Erick Strickland had 18 points and Shawn Bradley scored 12 to help t.he Mavericks win for the seventh time in their last eight games. 
Rasheed Wallace's 13 points paced the Trail Blazers. who shot 
34.6 percent from the field (28­for-81) and hit only 19 of 33 free throws. Stacey Augmon had 12 points and Damon Stoudamire and Bonzi Wells both scored 11 for Portland. which had won five of it5 previous seven games. 
Dallas built a 71-56 lead with 
9:57 left on Bradley's three-point play. 
But Portland climbed back into the game with nine unanswered points. capped by Wallace's three-point play with 7:52 remaining to reduce Dallas· advantage to 71-65. 
The Trail Blazers were as close as 80-74 with 3:26 left. but Wells missed two free throws on Portland's next possession. 
Bulls 100, Nets 93 
With the Chicago Bulls putting on an offensive display the likes of which lra.sn't been seen at the United Center in two years, the ailing New Jersey Nets didn't have a chance. 
The Bulls made a season-high 11 3-pointers. and wore a sea­son-best 69 percent (11-of-161 from long range. 
Almost everv Bull had a hand 
in the offense .. Matt Maloney was 5-of-6 from 3-point range for a season-high 19 points. Elton Brand led Chicago with 22 point!'.! and 15 rebounds. and also had a career-high seven assists. 
Chris Carr was 7 -of-10 from the floor for 17 points. and Hersey Hawkins added 10 with three 3-pointers. 
Keith Van llorn led the Nets with 25 points. K11ndall Gill had 19 point'l, and Elliott Perry added 
17. Jamie Feick had 12 rebounds. 
Van Horn's layup with 6:25 left in the third cut Chicago's lead to 64-56. but Maloney hit a 3-point­er and the Nets struggled to stay within double digits the rest of the game. With about 3 1/2 min­utes left. the Chicago fans started chanting. "Tacos, tacos." 
Fans get a free taco if the Bulls score 100 points in a home victo­ry. 
When Fred 1-Ioiberg made two free throws with 31 seconds left to give the Bulls 100 points. the fans cheered so loud the United Center srmnded like the good old days when Michael Jordan and Friends were around. 


page 18 The Obser-ver . SPORTS Wednesday, April 12, 2000
r 
Doherty scores big with students in Bookstore Basketball 
At most universities around the country, hig time college basketball has come Lo a close for another year. 
But Notre Dame is not most universi­ties. Bookstore Basket­ball. the largest fivp-on­fivc bas­ketl.rnll tourna­ment in the world. tipped off for the 29th time earlier this week. 
In the first two days of this year's tourney. the game that gener­ated the most interest saw Slwrker square off against Who's the Animal. complete with ESPN camerns rolling. 
Why all tlrn fuss over a first round gamP between two teams with pretty tame names. at least by Bookstore standards? 
Taking the floor for Shocker was Notre Dame men's bas­ketball coach Matt Doherty, making this the second straight year that he has suit­ed up for the tournament. 
As my elementary school soccer coach used to say, he came "dressed to sweat", wearing shorts and short sleeves despite the cold tem­peratures. 
Coach D and his team looked to get rolling early against Who's the Animal. a dub comprised of five ladies clerked out in silver reflective shirts and wind pants with one leg rolled up, a la L.L. Cool J. 
"That really caused them to disrupt their offense," said the coach, referring to his three blocked shots in thn early going. with one sailing into Lhe rrowd on the side­lines. 

But d<:'spitc the tough inside play of Doherty early, lhe crowd. which probably would have been a sellout if the game had not been outdoors, quickly showed they were pulling for underdog Who's the Animal. 
Whih1 Shocker players jogged back down the court after a basket pushed their lead to 8-1, a Powerude bot­tle was thrown onto their defensive end or the floor. 
A laughing Doherty picked the bottle up and tossed iL back to its owner und<'r the backboard, temporarily get­ting the crowd behind his team. 
That didn't last long, as a shot lhaL missed ever-ything a few possessions later at 9-1 brought back out tho "air ball" chant that was hoard earlier at 7-1. 
That's the first tinrn I've ever heard an "air ball" r.hant at an outdoor game. 
The biggest reacti.ons from the spectators, including many of Doherty's players, were still to com<', though. 
Trying to win over the tough audience, Coach D found himself in the open t'loor with chance to bring­them all over to the Shocker side. 
A few onlookers shouted "Dunk it," as he dribbled inside the three-point line, and it was clear that that was what he had in mind. 
Unfortunately for Doherty and Shocker, the plan didn't work out quite the way he hoped, and the ball bounced off the rim. 
Some members of tlrn varsi­
ty basketball squad wcrn 
laughing at their coach, but 
hP. just laughed himself. 
'"1f i~:;i 
...-......, 
Try All The Winning Varieties! 
1D HOT POCKETS~  
u> LEAN POCKETSII'  rtin's, Kro  
{0 CROISSANT POCKETS11  er fine stores in yuu the freezer section  
')1, TOASTER BREAKS~  


Just to be safe, though. for thPir sake iind mine, I'm not giving out any namos. 
Shucker went into the half leading 11-2. Who's the Animal played tough in the seconrl half, matr.hing their oppo1rnnts almost basket for basket in the early going. 
But Shockl'r went on a 4-0 run to end the gamn, with Doherty avenging some earli­er nnar-mis,ws by rattling horn,~ a dunk. 
Even with all the oxcitc­mcnt on the pavement, one of the best parts of this game came after thr playing was done. 
Both teams congratulated each other on a good game, and every player came away with a pretty awr,somfl nrnm­ory of their first round game in 2000. 
Pictures were taken with the coach and cvcryonr. laughed with 11veryone else about somn of Lhr lightrr moments from the past hall' hour. 
/\t the end, ten players camf off the court having had a great time playing a gamP of basketball. 
Nin,i were students and one was a former national cham­pion and the head coach of' the NIT runnP.rs-up 
It was hard to tell who was who, though. because tho brsl player on llw floor just looked happy to be thnrr.. 
The uiews expressed in thi:-.· column ctre those oftlw author and not necessarily those of The Obsen•er. 

INTERESTED IN SC IENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETH ICAL QUESTIONS? 
Moral issues surrounding technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, enuironmental management, computerization, engineering, and architectural design challenge us euery day. 
To explore these issues in depth inuestigate the unique Notre Dame STU Program. This is a minor requiring 15 hours that can be taken by students in any college. Within the STU Program you may deuelop concentrations in specific tracks emphasizing STU interactions with Business; Enuironmental Studies; Preprofes­sional Studies; Philosophy and Theology; Computer and Physical Sciences; and Gouernment and Public Policy. 
Course offerings for Spring 2000 may be reuiewed by informa­tion obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or uisit our website at http:/ /www.nd.edu/~stu. Call 631-5015 for a personal appoint­ment. 
Got sports? Call 1-4543. 
Wednesday, April 12, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS 
page 19 

SOFTBALL 
Sharron pitches way to Big East conference honors 
for Sharron this season.

Special to The Observer Sharron went 2-0 wiLh a save in three appearances Two-time conference pitch-last week, leading the Irish to er of the year junior Jennifer a 3-0 record. Sharron. from Agoura Hills, Sharron allowed just two Calif. has been named the Big runs. while logging 19 strike­East l'it<:her of the Week for outs in 11.1 innings for a her efforts in the team's 11.98 strikeout ratio. threii games last week. The Irish southpaw pitched 
against Villanova. allowing just one base runner and earning her second combined shutout and 10th overall of the season. 
The Notre Dame softball team will be back in action this week with three home doubleheaders beginning today against non-conference 
IL is Lhc t'irst weekly honor a combined one-hitter foe Butler at 4 p.m. 

Visit our Jam Central department. 
Guitars, amps, drumsels, sheet music and more. 
MEDINPLA.Y" 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
for the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
MediaPlay.com'M CaH::e~i::=~~ 

Sale ends April 22, 2000. Product selection and pricing may vary online, 809440 2558 
Pc::·h •
....r.:.,~ eyes on..'. ~ 
~-Jennifer Sharron 

BB(Basea,!:els) JOSE CUELLAR/fhe Observer 
French Mass 

When: April 13, 2000 
8:00pm Where: Lyons Hall Chaoel Celebrant: Rev. Michael Driscoll Mass will be said en frangais! 
*Sponsored by Le Cercle Franqais* 
INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL 
l!J Cnce aweek the Office of International Student Affairs will
b showcase sare of the nost !XPUlar international films ever m,de. 

Visit the OISA' sWebsite Wtltl.rd,eJ:h/"Oisa/ for nme m:wie up::lates. 
...............................................................................: 
The films for l\pril are: 
Wednesday, April 12 8µn The World of Apu (India) 
Wednesday, April 19 8µn The llhite Balloon (Iran) 
Wednesday, April 26 8µn Man of Marble (Poland) 
I I tt 1 •I.•I I ti•• It11 Ill. tt t tt I 11 • t II t It t I I I I Ill t tit I I I I I• I I II ff I I 111111 II I 11111 t 
l\.LL MOVIES WILL BE SHOWN IN THE MONTGOMERY THEATER, LAFORTUNE 
STUDJ:;NT CENTER, 
I 
. FREE ADMISSION! FREE DRINK AND SNACKS 
, ' $ • ' ... • ~ " , .;, .. • , ' ,_ "' • it .._, __. "' • "' ..,. ,.. .., I ... •· ''Ill • -• •• 
I 

I ' I 
. i' 
l i 
' 
I 
/ 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 12, 2000 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Midfielder Oakey earns player of the week honors 

JEFF HSUfThe Observer 
Senior midfielder Stedman Oakey was name the GWLL Player of the Week for the first time in his carer Tuesday. 
LOOK OUT LADIES, CRACKHEAD IS 21 l ALL AGES ARE NOW IN PLAY! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, JOE 
Do you have a burning question about the environment? Are you interested in learning more about environmental change? 
Come to a panel discussion: 
"Environmental Change ­Local to Global" 
When: Wednesday, April 12 at 7:00 p.m. Where: Reeker's 
Panelists will include: 
Scott Bridgham  -Department of Biological Sciences  
Dennis Doordan  -Department of Architecture  
Charles Kulpa  -Moderator,  
Department of Biological Sciences  
David Lodge  Department of Biological Sciences  
Robert Wolfe  J.F. New and Associates,  
Environmental Consulting Firm  

Come discuss issues such as loss of wetlands and forest, urban sprawl, invasive species, implications of land use change for carbon and nitrogen cycles, global warming, or any other issue you have in mind. 

. Senior notches two goals and two assists against Butler 
Special to The Observer 

Senior midfi0-ld Sl0-dman Oakey, f'rorn Clrnrlnttesvillc. Va .. has bncn narnod tho Great Westnrn Lacrossr, Leagun (GWLLl Player ol' the Wnek for tho first timn in his car ner a f't c r s c, or in g Lw o goals a11d dishing ol'f' two 
assists in Notre Dame's 12­11 victory over Butler on April 8. 
The win improv0-d Notre Damn 's record to !3-:-l overall and 4-0 in th0-GWLI. as th0 Irish clinched th0-10-ague title with a 4-0 rernrd in its f'inal conf'nrence test of the sea­son. 
0 a kcv b e c n m e s tIi t! t hir cl Ir is h p°J.1 y c r to <' a rn G W L L Player of' lhn Wnek honors this season. 
Junior attack Tom Glatz0-I, from Ellicott City, Md. and sn11ior goalie Kirk Ilnwnll, 
from Nashvilie, "!'Pnn. wcrn previous award winners in 
2000. 
Oakey. who has started six of the night games for Urn 14th-rankPd Irish this sea­son. is the team's l'ifth-10-ad­ing scorer with four goals and six assists for 10 points 
In his thre1~-plus sN1sons at Notre Danrn. lw has rcgis­tPrnd 25 goals ,rnd 1 K assists for 43 career points. 
Nol r r. Dam ii tr av PI s to 17th-ranked Army Saturdav. April 15 for a·l:00 p.111. mutchup with llw CadPts. 

NEW PANCAKE-MINIS™-JUST 9 9 ¢ I EAT A DELICIOUS BREAKFAST ON YOUR WAY TO WORK WITHOUT WEARING I TI 
DELICIOUS, SILVER-DOLLAR SIZED PANCAKE-MINIS~ INTRODUCING GREAT-TASTING, BUTTERMILK PANCAKE-MINIS~ THEY'RE THE
99¢ 

PERFECT SIZE FOR DIPPING WITHOUT DRIPPING AS VOU RACE TO WORK. FOR A LIMITED TIME, GET SIX FOR JUST 99¢. 0NLV AT BURGER KING! 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
Please recycle The Observer. 

Wednesday, April I 2, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

Murray 
continued from page 24 
That perscvnance has been bnnoficial for Murray. Murray's transition tn the <·olleg~ game r.ame even before he enrolled at Notre Dame. 
In high school. Murray was a thrne-year varsity player at tailback. 
After rushing for ;rn:{5 yards and 19 touchdowns as a junior. he started rnceiving 11.ltrntion from Lou !lollz and the Irish. TIH' next season. running from the I-formation t\!urray gained 1692 yards and 20 scores. 
But th<lre was no rush for a coll1ige decision. eswJcially 

Notre Dame 
~ 

Swing Club 
Cavanaugh Hall 
, 
Present: 
SWING OUT 
Thursday April 13, 2000 
Doors open 8pm Swing Contest at 8:30 with Prizes!! 
La Fortune Ballroom 

ation drive 
thur.sill\y, ap,ril 13 
LEARN ABOUT CANDIDATES 

SPO\SORED BY STl.:DENT GOVER..~}·\E;-.tr. COLLEGE DD10CRATS &COLLE(jE HEPU~LllA\S 
after Holtz departed 
"There bad been a lot of kids that committed some­where and then ended up changing their minds," Murray said."! didn't want to be like that. After thi> season was over I took my time." 
In the end. Murray chose tho Irish over Northwestern and Ohio State. 
With that decision came l\lurruy's first adjustment to college football. 
"I didn't really have to block that much in high school." Murrav said. "Mavbc three times a g~mc." · 
But at Notre Dame. Murray knew his role would change. Instead of carrying the ball 25 times a game. he would be blocking on nearly every play. He watched the older 

fullbacks, Jamie Spencer and after getting the shoulder Joey Goodspeed. Though he scoped but was ready once didn't see any playing time as the fall began. a freshman. As a Murray sopho­
believes the 'Tm looking to be healthy m o r e . 
learning Murray
a.nd get a chance to play. 
experience saw action helped him. That's what I came here to in the last 
Following do. I'm tired ofsitting nine games 
the season. of the sea­
around and watching
he worked s o n , out with the everyone else do it. " including team. trying the Gator to bulk up Bowl loss
Jason Muray
for the to Georgia
Irish fullback
upcoming 
year. 

T b e n Murray suffered his first injury, a shoulder sprain dur­ing the 1998 Blue and Gold game. 
IJ e missed a l'ew mon Lhs 
Tech. 

But he 
logged less than ten minutes of'playing time, as once again ho played behind Spencer and Goodspeed. 
Those ten minutes proved 
to be the extent of 
Murray's on-field time at Notre name. 
During last spring, Murray cracked a rib after getting hit from behind. Thus went the spring sea­son. 
"With the ribs it was hard to run around," Murray said. "It was a sore. aching feeling ­nothing too bad.'' 
And then, just a few weeks into last season. Murray suffered another shoulder injury. This time. the damage to the left shoulder was more seri­ous. Murray had recon­structive surgery. causing him to miss his entire junior season. 
"That was difficult," Murray said. "Anytime you miss that much time it's tough to get back." 
But now Murray is returning for another year. hoping to see some game action. His competi­tion at fullback includes returning starter Tom Lopienski, Mike McNair and Chris Yura, who 

played def1rnsive back in 1999. 
As of now, nothing is guar­anteed, no promises of play­ing time. 
Just a promise to compete, which is all Murray has ever wanted. 
"I don't know where he'll be next fall as far as the depth chart," Robinson said. "I don't know where he'll be at the end of the spring but I do know he's showing improvement. That's all you can ask for. You never know. You may see him out there." 
"We're switching in and out of the reps," Murray said of his progress this spring. "It's hard to figure out who's going to play. You've just got to go out thnre and do your best. But you never know." 
No one knows that better than Murray. 
As hn walked off Carti1H Field after practice on Tuesday night, Murray spoke of a new beginning, a chance to show that he belongs on the field. 
'Tm looking to be healthy and get a chance t.o play," Murray said. "That's what I came here to do. I'm tired of sitting around and watching everyone else do it." 
NOTES: 
. 
Offensive guard Jim Jones suffered a sprained knee and may miss the rest of the spring. Offensive tackle Kurt Vollers suffered a sprained neck. 

. 
Dennis Moynihan. an intern in the football office two of the last three years, has been appointed as a graduate assistant coach replacing Taver Johnson, who accepted an assistant coaching job at Miami University in Ohio. Moynihan has been involved in recruit­ing administration at Notre Dame. 


American Heart~ Association.V 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 

page 22 The Obierver . SPORTS Wednesday, April 12, 2000 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Dasso brings unparalleled greatness to court 
Greatness motivatP.S Michelle Dasso. 
With winning comes inevitable gr1iatncss. and winning is all the Dasso srems to do. From high 
school. righl  
on through her now-sto- Kevin Berchou  
ried Irish  
r,trPf'r.  
Dasso hns  Irish Insight  
won.  
Losing is  

not an option. Losing woul<l br 
failure. frir therr' is no grPatnrss 
in losing. D<'ft'al would not hr 
accPpt.able for tlm woman. who is 
still a,iunior. but is arguably the 
best player in the history of the 
women's program. 
/\s a standout on the Notre Dame women's tcnnb I.Pam. Dasso brings an unparalleled intensity to the court, an intensity that has catapulted not only her. but her entire tt>am to national prominence. 
..Oh, she just can't stand Lo lose." head roarh Jay Louderback said. "In the rare event that she actually dues fall, you don't want to be around hl\r just after il. It's nol pleasant." 
Dasso agrei:>d with her coach. 
"I hate to lose," she said. ''I just love getting into every match so murh. that when I lose it's tough to take." 
Dasso's disdain for defeat stems from her fiery intensity. Besides winning nearly every tin1e she toes the ba<;eline. Da_<;so's greatest contribution to the program has befm her emotion, which serves to motivate her teammates. 
"She just plays every match so hard." Louderback said. "That tends to carry over, and the other girls start to do the same." 
"If I'm not playing intense, something's wrong," Dasso said. "That's just my game." 
When Louderback signed Dasso out of Stevenson High School. in Long Grove. Ill.. he knew he was getting a good player. Little did he know of Michelle Dasso's iron will. 
"I wa_<; concerned at first." Louderback admitted. "She's not a real big kid. There wa'i some concern about her power. and whether or not she could really bP a go-to player." 
Dasso provrd to be a f'rnshman sensation. A.l't11r entering the sea­son unrnnkrid. she skvrocketed to No. 16 in the country: the highest rank twer achiev,id by a Notrn 
Dame woman. 
Dasso had br.r.onrn the go-Lo player already. and postHd an astonishing 24-'.") singlf's record in dual matrh play. Sur.Ji surrcss is rarP for a first-ynar player. Many fn'shmcn arr brought along slow­ly. a.-; they a.re thought not to be sutlidrn,tly preparPd for the pres­sure that comes with playing No. l singlos. Dasso ww, pr!'panid; to play well under pwsstirP is to achieve greatness. 
"It's draining both mentally and physically." Dasso said. ''But it's all worth it wlum we conrn out on top." 
"It's a ton of prossun, tn play No. l singles as a freshman," Louderback said. "But I think she thrives on it. She knows every match will be tough and she approaches it with that attitude." 
As a sophomore she continued to reap the accolades. Alter finish­ing the year v.ith a top 20 rank­ing, Dasso was an All-American. Dasso was grnat. Alrt>ady a strong singles player wlrnn shn arrived on campus, Dasso has worlrnd hers("Jf' to doubles prowess ,Ls well. And this versatility has made the rnpl.ftin all the morn valuable. 
"She has really gotten to the point where she's as good in dou­bles as she is in singles." Louderback noted. "HPr volleying has improved a lot." 
Dasso has teamed with team­mate Becky Varnum to form a formidable No. 1 doubles pairing for the Irish this year, after being pairnd with Jennifer Hall l.L<;t year and posting a 21-7 record at top doubles. Judging by the way she plays, you'd think every matrh was her last. It's a will to win. a fear of losing, and an unquench­able desire to sur,ceed that makes Dasso great. Dasso entered the rummt campaign with high expertations evfln for her. She wa'i one of the top ten players returning players in the country and wa,;; expected to continue her ascent to the ranks of the all-time great'>. But then there wa<; a detour NDasso injured her shoul­der and was forced to take it easy for a couple of months. 
" That was so frustrating," she said. "It was awful to have to sit thereand watch. 1 really wanted to get back out there and com­pete." 
A'i frustrating m, that layoff wa'i, Dasso did not let it dampen her 
SENIORS SENIORS! ! ! ! 
WANT TO THANK YOUR PARENTS OR GUARDIAN FOR PROVIDING YOU WITH 4 YEARS OF NOTRE DAME EDUCATION? WHY NOT GIVE THEM A SMALL GIFT TO SHOW THEM YOUR APPRECIATION? 

$40 per plaque when bought at COBA booth Thurs. 4/13 & Mon. 4/17 from 10-2 
$40 when bought with senior tickets in ND room of LaFun, Fr!. 4/14 10-2 
$45 when bought through website or order form on flyer 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE SENIOR (LASS COUNCIL AND ND MANAGEMENT CLUB 
spiril'i. 

She h1L'i J'Plurnml with a llour­
ish. and is back in familiar territo­
ry with a top 20 national ranking. 
Anothnr booming snrvn is bdt,.. ed. Ono more crisp backhand S<>nds today's opponnnl lunging to the corner. And just like that. tlrn match is over. D,L'iSO has won again, this time beating Indiana's .Jessica i\ndnrson ()-1. ()-3. 
Dasso, today, is gniat.. 
That No. 1 sing!Ps win propds tlH~ Irish to Y('.t anotlwr victory. The Ilonsit\rS arn trounr.ml CJ-0 and tlw Irish havn made anotlwr P111phatir point. r-.lirhclln Dasso is sure thal hl'r great11st days ,trl' still lo come. She focls her own level of' play has novnr befm high­or, but. is f'ar more oxe.it.ml about the team's prospecL<;. That's just hnr natiu·t~ -shf''s a tPam playt>r. 
'Tvo never been this excited bnfore," Dasso said. "For the first time si111:c I've bn1m hem. I think we can bl'.at anybody. We're all getting pretty excited the NCJ\As." 
Whilo Da'iso's brilliant play is a main reason for Notre Dame's continued success, shn is quick to dcllcct much ofthe praisB. 
'Tm luck~.t.o hav<: s~'.'.I~ great teammatl's. she said. lwcrvone ha..<; played so well lately." " 
To win tho NCA/\s. everyone will have to be at their best. That won't be a problem for Da'iso. For her, exrellencc is the norm and greatness is commonplacn. /\n NCAA championship this May would likely surp,L'iS greatness. 
An NCAA title would makP Michelle Dasso a IPgPnd. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those rJfThe Observer. 
Holy Cross College is a small, close-knit, two-year liberal arts college where you'll get the personal attention you need for success. We'll challenge you, too ... with an expanded curriculum that includes a new Associate ofArts in Business Administration degree. And wait till you discover our campus life. We've spruced up the landscaping, added new sports and recreation facilities and created more on-campus housing. Just recently, we broke ground on a new student apartment complex. Looking for the path to a brighter future? It starts right here at Holy Cross. 

VAN DYKE is 21, 

WE'RE SPEECHLESS 
Happy Birthday, 
Kevin 

* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
P.O. Box 308 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 www.hcc-nd.edu 

@2000 HCC 
1
Wednesd:n. April 12, 200 The Observer . TODAY page 23 I 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
1iti..NSlt>-T,oW TRA.l'ISlA11C>N: TM C~OOS11\JG IT
(.\\OCSE TI\E: Ck![ "1: \,,(11,i,IT ANI) DlE! M-in.;,-Yf HA! 11~1 H~! 

Fox TROT  
C;,>()QC)£1ill~t.tryl.Jrttvartialf'l't',.SS111dit;alt Sll'IICE PLEASE WHEN l)o ENTER I NEED A PASS­PASSWoRD?! WORD. I 7  !. THERE. i YOU'RE ~ ALL SET,! SWEETIE.  -....  

TOM KEELEY 
i~M,1~1.XIIO N. 'i3ilRN IN '(OV 'rl~S"I:, t\E:LL! 'l'O\J $tit@! 
BILL AMEND 
FIRST ON WHAT I oUR PRE• WANT 15 PROGRAMED A BROWSER 
ToUR: THE THAT'S TELETU881ES "PAREl\olT­S1TE ... SAr;E." 
7 1 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 It's just one of 
those things 5 "Aw, shucks" expressions 
10 More 14 Jealous wife in Greek myth 15 Slackened 16 A portion 
17 ''The moan of doves in immemorial _": Tennyson 
18 Campbell of "Martin" 19 Winter Palace ruler 20 Ready to swoon 23 "Go on .. ." 24 Clan emblem 25 Straight start? 27 Orbital periods 29 Actor McKellen 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
31 Birth control device 
32C.P.R. 
administrator 34 It ends in Mecca 35 Brit legislators 36 Good-looking 40 Insulation 
ingredient, for short 41 Cooperstown nickname 42 Wool source 43 Bolo, for one 
44 Michael Jordan's alma mater, in brief 
45 Have it 49 Place for rings 51 Gives the gate 55 Genetic letters 56 Seedy-looking 59 fide 


Puzzle by M. Francia Vuolo 
30 "Song of the South" song syllables 
33 Unable to decide 34 Shaker_, 0. 36 Satanic sort 37 Colorless solvents 38 Addictive stuff 39 Japanese capital 
40 School grp. 46 Strasbourg siblings 

47 Like lots of 54 They may come shopping now in batteries 
48 Sang like 57 Torah holders Satchmo 50 Not out 58 L'eggs shade 
52 Complete 59 Term of address 53 Cliff projection in the 'hood 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Claire Danes, David Letter­man, Shannen Doherty, David Cas­sidy, Vince Gill, Montserrat Caballe, Andy Garcia 
Happy Birthday: It will be impor­tant that you follow through with your thoughts and ideas this year. This is not a year to squander or one to be lackadaisical about your future or projects that need to be complet­ed. Be reasonable, but don't be vul­nerable to those who want to mis­lead or misguide you. Your numbers: 10,23,25,31,44,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put your efforts into doing the best job you can. You will not be able to win at home, so don't even bother con­fronting the situation in question. Participate in physical activities with 
children.00000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may have difficulty expressing your­self emotionally to relatives. Don't allow others to make decisions for you. Follow your intuition. You are the best judge of your own situation. 
00 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can expect opposition at work. Don't be too eager to let others in on your professional intentions. Do your own thing and work at your own speed. Listen rather than reveal. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be pessimistic if you start to dwell on the past. Busy yourself with projects that will help you become more aware of your abilities. Your moody nature will drive those you love away. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Continue to avoid dealing with institutions. You will have better results later in the week. Take a breather and relax; you have taken on way too much. 
EUGENIA LAST 
Your partner will also need your attention. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't lend unreliable friends money. You will ruin your friendship and aren't likely get back what you lent. Keep your personal problems to yourself. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your domestic situation will be confusing. Don't be misled if your mate is nice to you in front of other people. You can expect fireworks later if you haven't resolved personal issues. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your memory will be surrb. This will be a great day to tal to individuals who can provide you with valuable information. You may want to do a little investigating and traveling about.00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take care of any minor health problems immediately. Stay away from financial ventures that have a built­in risk factor. Discuss personal fi. nances with someone knowledgeable. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Your emotional life may be at stake if you have been preoccupied with the business world. You had better make amends quickly if you don't want to come home to an empty house. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be taken the wrong way if you don't spell things out. Many of your pursuits will be fruitless today. Get some rest. Tomorrow will be more progressive. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will tend to overindulge, spend too much on children, and waste time with individuals who aren't the best influence. Do yourself a favor. Work on a hobbies or self-improvement. 
000 

Birthday Baby: You are curious about everything and everyone. You will follow the path less traveled. You need to experience new things, and you welcome any challenge that comes your way. You have an appreciation for the unique and will strive to be different in all that you do. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
<I:) 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
60 Baptism and bris 
61 L.A. gang member 
62 Need a bath badly 
63 Awaited a dubbing 64 Surrealist 
Magritte 65 Charger, to a Cockney 66 Lowly ones 67 Took habitually 
DOWN 1 Tao, literally 2 Curtis of hair 
care 3 Loser of 1588 4 What to do? 5 "I kick .. ." 6 Grammy winner 
Bonnie 7 Joe Jackson's 
"_Really Going Out With Him?" 
8 Book after Ezra 9 Minn. neighbor 10 Fruity-smelling compound 11 Experience a delay 12 They attract rubberneckers 13 Musket attachment 21 "C'mon, I wanna try!" 
22 Gentile 
26Some E.R. cases 28 _ judicata 


Today! us. Bowting Green 5:00pm Thursday us.Toledo 5:00pm 



Set for Greatness 
Junior Michelle /Jasso has made a lasting impact on the Irish tennis squad with her drive lo succeed. 
page 22
PORTS 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Wednesday, April 12, 2000 
I 
claimed responsibility for one By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN of the failed atlempts. Associat< Sporrs hliwr 
'"I blocked one of' those, right?" Mavrelis asked 

Notre Dame men's basket­Doherty. "I disrupted that ball coach 1\i1att Doherty would dunk." cringe if his Fighting Irish After missing the dunks, players copied his Bookstore Dohertv turned to the ESPN Basketball moves. cameraman on the sidelines 
Doherty missed four dunks. and pleaded with him to edit dared opponents to go for the misses out of the tape. steals by dribbling between his "It's a career high in missed legs and talked a little trash. dunks," Doherty said. "Coach But he also hit some three­[OeanJ Smith would be disap­pointers and blocked a few pointed. I made three dunks at shots, while his 29th-ranked North Carolina. and I missed Shocker squad far,ed no threat four tonight." of losing, as it defeated Who's Doherty gave props Lo the the Animal?, an all-girls team creativity and energy of the from LPwis Hall. 21-4. sizable student ronting«rnt 
"It's my house, and they've despite 35-degree tf1mpern­got to wipe their feet hefore tures. One onlooker threw an they come into my house. empty Powerade bottle onto You've got to talk a little the murt. This time, it drew a trash," Doherty said before snicker from Doherty. When a praising the girls' play. "I fan did the same at the Notre think the girls that we played Dame-Syracuse game March 1, are right up thr.re with UConn. it cost the Irish a last-minute St. John's, Syracuse, Seton technical and a chance at vic­Hall." tory. 
Who's the Animal? won the Who's the Animal? didn't prize for most eye-r,atching seem too upset by the loss. The uniforms, donning sparkly sil­team was more interested in ver vests and headbands with getting its picture taken with blue and gold warm-up pants. Doherty and being interviewed 
But Shocker easilv advanced bv ESPN. . to the second rot~nd of the •.. 1 may have got my shot tournament. The team scored blocked," sophomore Liz early and often with no-look Ilalligan said, "But it was an passes for easy buckets, experience and it was fun. !Cs rebound putbacks, three­part of the Notre Dame trad i­pointers and a cross-court lob tion." for a backdoor lay-up. Relativr Attraction r,ontinued 
"There's not a whole lot of another Bookstore Basketball game plan in a game like this." tradition -dressing in outra­freshman player Kyle Fager geous costumes and entertain­said. ing the crowd with its shocking 
Shocker hopes to disprove behavior. what it considers mistakenly The 6-man team comprised low rankings by the Bookstore of Dave Hogero. Kerry Basketball Committee. Cavanaugh, Paul 
"We're going all the way. no Fchrenbacher, Dan StrobPI. doubt," Dnhertv said. "I think Drew Brennan and Hyan they shafted us on the rank­Murray dressed as a back­ings. woods mom and her fivn sons. 
The large l'rowd in atten­They wore clothes designed to dance kept .. heering for poke fun at West Virginians, Doherty to go up for a dunk, likP. plaid flannel shirts and but when be tried-, the dunks torn-up pants with falsn teeth wouldn't go down. Cristina that were missing more than a Mavrelis of Who's the Animal? 
see BOOKSTORE/page 16

f. 
I 
FOOTBALL 
Murray anxious to make most of season after injuries 
doing what he does best. vears here at Notre Dame. ball. the Belle Vernon, Pa. r.oncentrate on the present.By TIM CASEY "lie made a block the othor · lle's been in classes. work­native has sprmt more time in where he's getting ready l'or As:.istanr Spores Editor 
day and it sounded like Lwo ing towards a degree in rehab and on the training his senior campaign. 
cars hitting each other," said accounting and computer table than on the field. "Once in a while I get some From the sidelines at Hobinson, Notre Dame's run­applications. Three injuries, one of discomfort in [the left shoul­Cartier Field earlier this ning backs coach. "It's a pop lle's been in his dorm room which required season-end­der I." Murray said. "But it's 
spring, Desmond Bobinson 
when he hits you. For where in Alumni llall, hanging out ing shoulder surgery last fall, [tho spring sr,ason I only 15 could hear the contact. 
he's been. he's doing pretty with friends. in less than three years has practices so I'm just trying to 
He eould sense fullback 

well." He's been ,rnjoying his t.ime limited Murray's playing make it through."Jason Murray was hack from Murray has been almost as an undergraduate. lime. But now. during springshoulder surgery, back Lo everywhere in his first three But when it comes to foot-drills. Murray is ready to see MURRAY/pagc 21 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIX 
Shocker, Keyplay.co01 take control of basketball courts 

ar Michigan
Softball Men's Golf
ri, 

Thursday, 3 p.m. 
vs. Butler \*~.:::./ at Ohio Stare Kepler 
SPORTS 

Today, 4 p.m. Intercollegiate
~ 
Friday-Saturday
ATA •

Baseball Women's Lacrosse 
Track and Dield

~ vs. Bowling Green :u Duke .. -~­
at Mt. Sac Relays (Calif.) 
~

GLANCE ~ 
Today, 5:05 p.m. Thursday, 7 p.m. ­
Friday, TBA 






