--------------------------------------------------------, 
Friends forever 
Ship attacked 
Two Pasquerilla East girls chose to live togeth­
Fire sailors were killed and 1 2 are missing 

Friday
er in the same room for three years. Find out 
from the USS Cole in a suicide bombing off 
all abont them. 
the shore ofYemen. 

OCTOBER 13, 
Scene . page 10 
World & Nation . page 5 

2000 
. --------------------­


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOL XXXIV NO. 39 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Police cite students in late-night Finnigan's raid 
• Several students charged with 'minor in a tavern' violation 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
NewsWmet 
Finally putting an end to the rumor that Finnigan's will never get bustrd. South Bend Police officers raided the local tavern and cited several Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students on minor in a tavern charges Thursday night. 
The police said they would not issue a report until 8 a.m. today and refused to comment as to the num­ber of students charged. 
Students in the bar estimated that the police arrived at approximately 
1:30 a.m. A police van and several police cruisers sealed off the area immediately surrounding the bar. Fifty to 60 students were milling around the ouside of the bar while and unknown number of students remained inside at 2 a.m. Several Notre Dame football and men's bas­ketball players were seen inside the bar speaking with the police, although it is not known if any were charged. 
Finnigan's joins Bridget McGuire's and Irish Connection on the list of popular student taverns raided by police in the last four years. 
Police would not comment about whether Finnigan's would lose it's liquor license. Both Bridget McGuire's and Irish Connection lost their licenses after similar incidents. 


NEWS ANALYSIS 
Abortion pill RU-486 sparks controversy 



By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Less than three weeks have passed since the Food and Drug Administration approved the controversial abortion-inducing drug RU-486. The effect of the pill on the number of abortions is unknown but groups on both sides of the abortion debate already hold strong positions on the See Also use of the drug, which is also 
"Using RU-486

known as Mifeprex. "It is very difficult to predict the requires careful consequences of the FDA's approval 
thought"

of RU-486, especially in terms of the number of abortions," Saint page 8 Mary's philosophy professor Kevin McDonnell said. "Larger social factors seem to be in play currently decreasing that number, but these forces could change quickly." 
McDonnell monitors the moral consequences of medical decisions as the Edna and George McMahon Aquinas Chair in Philosophy. He has written a book on medical ethics and teaches a course on medical ethics at Saint Mary's. 
"The effect of RU-486 may be to move abortions from abortion centers to physicians' offices. More 
physicians will become involved in doing abortions, including some primary care physicians. That might increase the number of abortions, but, again, the numbers are too hard to predict," he continued. 
Polly Edwards, executive director of Planned Parenthood of North Central Indiana, Inc., said that there is no connection between an increase in the number of abortions and tho use of RU-486. 
"This medicine has been available in Europe for over 10 years," Edwards said. "In France they've been using it since 1990. In France [the use of it] in no way increased the number of abortions." 
Kathy Black, the executive director of Saint Joseph County Right to Life, Inc., agreed with Edwards that the use of RU-486 would not greatly increase the number of abortions. Black, however, questioned the safety of tho new drug. 
"It's not expected to increase the abortion rate, because it's not a very safe method of abortion," said Black. "Some of these abortions will not fully expel and surgery would be required anyway. I feel that RU-486 will have a short life span in this country." 
Side effects of the drug acknowledged by the FDA include severe cramping and bleeding, diarrhea. nausea, vomiting. headaches, dizziness, back pain and tiredness. 
see RU-486/page 4 
-



Professor killed in car accident 
By JASON McFARLEY 
Assistant News Edi tor 

Holy Cross College professor Eric Makielski died in a traffic accident early Thursday morn­ing, Kokomo police said. 
Makielski, 42, of Edwardsburg, Mich., was in his first year as an adjunct computer graphics instructor at the College. 
"We wish to express our great sympathy in response to this tragedy," said Beverly Bradley, Holy Cross director of community relations. "[Makielski's] family has the support and prayers of the entire Holy Cross community." 
Makielski was killed in his pickup truck around 
2:12 a.m. at the intersection of Boulevard and 
U.S. Highway 31 in Kokomo. Ind., police report­ed. 
Preliminary accounts from Bradley indicate that Makielski fell asleep while traveling home from Indianapolis and collided with a semi-truck. 
As of Thursday night, Kokomo Police had not confirmed that information or if speed and alco­hol were factors in the crash. They said the acci• 
see PROFESSOR/page 4 


Friday, October 13, 2000

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Protecting ourselves 

October means many things at Notr<' Dame: midterms, football. Halloween, fall break, Canadian Thanksgiving, autumn, and Breast Cancer Awareness month. Perhaps the last item is not is not widely known, let alone val­ued on our campus. but it should be, since it 
produces one of the highest mortality rates among those diagnosed with can­cer. 
Breast cancer is a real threat, it is not a nameless entity, rather it becomes known to us through those closest to us. our mothers, 


grandmothers. wives. 
Lila Haughey

aunts. sisters, girlfriends, cousins, and nieces. My Aunt Judy, author of · numerous romance novels Viewpoint (her first making the New Editor York Times best seller list). passed away a month ago. She was diagnosed with breast cancer and fought it thorough chemotherapy for 11 years. My Aunt Hosemary. mother of six, two boys and four girls ranging in age from 10 to 21. passed away on Sunday. Diagnosed with breast cancer about five years ago, she too fought for more time, although she choose a homeopathic medicinal approach. My Aunt Judy was 60, and my Aunt Rosemary was in her early 40s. My mother lost one of her youngest sisters when Hosemary died this week and last month my father lost his oldest sister, the one he was closest to. How ironic that two of my family members, related only through marriage would both die from breast cancer. even more so that they would die within one month of each other, though diagnosed live years apart. 
Despite the presence ofcancer in my family. I ignored its fatality and trusted the power of medical treatment. However, the past two months have made me realize the importance of early detection and treatment. I have in the past year been increasingly exposed to preven­tative measures, at 21 I realize I am much more susceptible than I was even a year ago. With my maturity has come the realization that as an adult I need to protect and take care of myself. 
As college-age men and women, we are rela­tively protected from being diagnosed with breast cancer. Women under 30 comprise only 0.,8 percent of all cases, and more specifically, women age 20-24 have an incidence rate of only 1.3 cases in every 100,000 people. Men are certainly not excluded from breast cancer, though they only consist of 1 percent of all cases. Even though the chances are slim. the only way we can feel safe is to keep aware and informed, because these are our bodies and our responsibility. Although it ai.ay not affect us directly, it can, and has, affected many of our families and friends. 
The producer of the second highest number of cancer related deaths among women, breast cancer is a destructive force in our society. Although we may not be all1icted with breast cancer, with such high numbers ( 43,300 women were predicted to die from breast can­cer in 1999) it is likely to affect us indirectly. Targeting women predominantly age 40 through 79. breast cancer also targets our mothers, grandmothers. wives. girlfriends, aunts, cousins. sisters, friends and our nieces. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kate Nagengasc Amanda Gceco Kelly Hager Graphics 
Scou Brodfuehrer Katie Annis 
Sports Production 
Molly McVoy Andrew Soukup Viewpoint Lab Tech Pat Kelly Tony Floyd 

The Ob,crvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through rriday except during cum and vacation periods. The Observer is• member of ,he A<SOci•tcd Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Saint Mary's parietals change Student Council addresses drug rules Nov. 7, 1982 Oct. 2, 1973 
Saint Mary's began a trial period for new weeknight The Student Life Council voted to uphold rules per­parietal hours, which included 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. taining to drugs in the Student Manual. The first two Sundays through Thursdays. "Given the way students rules stated that providers of drugs and users of hallu­live during the week, I don't anticipate much socializ­cinogens and narcotics constituted serious violations. ing,". said Sister Karol .Jakowski, then director of resi­The third rule stated that students who use marijuana dence life and housing at Saint Mary's. were not committing a serious violation. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 

FBI e-mail watch prompts concern for privacy 
MINNEAPOLIS of the people to be secure in their 
For most University of Minnesota 
persons, houses, papers and effects, students e-mail is a fast and easy against unreasonable soarches and way to communicate with friends seizures ... without probable cause." and family in a private one-on-one "I don't know if plowing through manner. But students' e-mail priva­millions of bits of information is the cy might be limited with th e emer­best way to find criminal suspects," gence of a FBI surveillance system. said Dan Burk, a University law 
Carnivore, an electronic surveil­professor who specializes in issues la.nce system used by the FRI, gath­of intellectual property. ers electronic mail sent to and from The program was implemented criminal suspects. after the FBI c•xpericnced an clevat-. 
Despite a list of criteria that must ed number of criminal investiga­be met before enacting electronic tions in which the criminal suspects surveillance, many people worry "[The Carnivore system] gets into used the Internet to communicate that besides intercepting messages issues of privacy and the Fourth with their victims or other crimi­from criminal suspects. the system Amendment," said Joel Samaha. a nals. Most Internet service will intercept messages from and sociology professor familiar with providers do not have the ability to invade the privacy of innocent peo­criminal issues. find an individual e-11rnil amongst pIe -including University stu­The U.S. Constitution's Fourth all other e-mails in the system, so dents. Amendment guarantees "the right the FBI developed Carnivore. 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AUBURN UNIVERSITY 
Admissions continue to fake photos
Feds investigate vague rape stats 
AUBUHN, Ala.
BERKELEY 

Auburn University officials say they will continue using 
Campus safety advocates Wednesday heralded the fed­
doctored photo illustrations. but will include an explana­
eral investigation into allegations that the University of 
tion of the process in future publications. The doctoring. 
California system underreports on-campus rape and sex­
which set off ethical debates last week, was not meant to
ual assault statistics. Responding to a series of articles 
misrepresent Auburn·s ethnic proportions, University
published by the Sacramento Bee last month, U.S. 
Relations officials say. Former employees for University
Department of Education officials said Tuesday that they 
Relations and its publication partner the Admissions
would launch an inquiry into the newspaper's findings. 
Office have also stepped up this week and accused their
The reports accused the UC system of failing to comply 
administrators of forcing the inclusion of more blacks in 
with the Oery Act, a federal law regarding the gathering 
their publications. Hichard Albee, art director for
and reporting of sexual assault and rape statistics. The 
University Relations from 1986-96. said after having pro­
federal investigation is a result of several complaints 
posals for applications packages rejected by Admissions
against various UC and California State University cam­
Office administrators, he and co-workers set up pho­
puses filed with the department. Security on Campus, 
tographs that pictured more minorities. "We set up pho­
Inc .. a national campus safety organization, filed a com­
tos to have minorities in them because the administra­
plaint Oct. 2 against all nine UC campuses. It had previ­
tors wanted them in the pictures," said Albee, who now
ously filed separate complaints against UC Davis and UC 
works as a Web developer for lnfotrax. "It always came
Riverside. "This is completely unprecedented," said 
down from the administrators. They wanted photos with 
Daniel Carter, the organization's vice president. "It's 
minorities in them."
never happened in one system, let alone two." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 13. 
/ID::umtrer !a:e:::ast far &yt.inec:mitimsan:l. high taq:eratures 
40s 
Friday! Satur~ay Sunday/ 
FRONTS: 
..........................

Mond~y 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
PnfMtNe: 

Tue$day ®© . Dc::10 .. 
High Low Showers Rain T•stormt Flun"'a Snow Ice Sunny Pt. CloUdy Cloudy 
Manta 81 54 Las Vegas 64 60 Portland 62 49 Baltimore 78 56 Memphis 83 62 Sacramento 71 56 Boston 74 59 Milwaukee 74 54 St Louis 71 58

4,~,~8Q.8 (f ~ 6 
Chicago TT 59 New York 73 49 Tampa 85 63 Houston 88 67 Philadelph,a 72 56 Washingion DC 75 54 
Showers T-strxms Rain Flumes Snow Ice sunny Pl. Cloooy Cloud>/ 
0 2000 AceuWealher, Inc. 

Friday, October 13, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Library preservation aims to protect fragile texts 
By LINDSAY FRANK 
News Writer 
Tucked between the railroad tracks and the Douglas Houd Nofre Damr Federal Credit Union sits a one story sand­colored building. Outside in the parking lot of this former rat lab only half of the eight parking spots arc filled. Red flowers greet visitors at the door and serve as the only hint of color on a gray Friday morning. Inside, down in the basement amazing things are 
~ TOASTER BREAKS® 
happening. 
Here, in a place that looks like a combination office building, art studio and high­tech organic chemistry lab, damaged books, manuscripts and other materials from Ilesburgh Library's circulating and special collections come for rehabilitation and repair. 
According to Liz Dube, the conservation librarian for Notre Dame's Conservation and Preservation Unit, places like this one haven't been around very long. 
. "Preservation is a relatively 



v a eat 
in's, Kr 
er firte stores in yo the freezer secti 

new concept from the '80s," she said. 
In a room where two women sit behind tables stacked with brushes, special non-damaging glue and books, Preservation Assistant Patricia Karpinksi spreads out scores of before and after photographs of books that have been successfully repaired. 
The first shot 
shows a heavilv 
water damaged 
Bible. its spine has 
folded over on 
itself and from the 
side its brown 
pages bulge out in 
a semi-circle. 
Another photo 
shows the same 
Bible, although 
this time smaller 
in size, with a 
straight spine and 
pages now con­
tained within the .covers. 
"Seems magical doesn't it?" said Karpinksi with a proud smile. 
Judging from the 
equipment in an 
adjoining room, 
which includes a 
huge suction table 
with a bubble 
shaped covering and a special 
freezer with individual tem­
perature probes for each 
book, technology plays an 
important role as well. 
According to Dube the freez­
er is especially important 
because it prevents the water 
from drying and staining the 
books. 

One especially technical pro­
cedure the staff uses to pre­
serve the books is a deacidifi­
cation process which signifi­
cantly slows down the chemi­
cal degredation process of 
acidic paper -a particularly useful thing for. the bulk of books printed before 1970 on poorly processed wood pulp paper. 

Although the majority of the books treated at this site are sent from the main library, the Conservation and Preservation Unit also responds to emergency situa­tions in which books have been damaged in accidents, like burst pipes. Sometimes, according to Dube, the amount of books involved in these accidents exceeds space in their facility. 

TONY FLOYDfThe Observer Employees in the Conservation and Preservation Unit of Notre Dame's library system work to repair and restore library materials which have become damaged through age and use. Library restoration projects are a relatively recent phenomenon, which began in the 1980s. 
"Once we actually had to use one of the dining hall freezers. But it was okay because it was a library emergency," said Dube. 
Based upon the banana peels and Twinkies that have been found inside it is appar­ent that aside from old age and accidents, the books that pass through the Preservation and Conservation Unit, also suffer from general abuse and disrespect. 
"That's what hurts the most, that kind of deliberate abuse," ~aid Dube. 
Friday, Octoher IJ. 2000, 8:00 pm 
,\uclilorium. The lksh11rgh Ct•nkr for lnlcrnalional Studil's University or Notrt• Dame 
General Admission, $10 ND/SMC: $5 
S1,011son·cl hy: Tlw India Association ol" Noire llan1c The Asian Indian Clas.,;it·al l\lusic Society Orrict• ol' lnlt•rn:llional Stndcnt Sen•ict•s :md Activities 
Friday, October 13, 2000 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
~tU-486 
continued from page I 
/1ccording to Black, there have also been reports of more serious consequences, su,:h as infertility and possible hemorrhaging. 
"Some women have died from the drug," she said. "Others have had to have blood transfusions. There is documentation to back it up." 
Black is confident that if enough cases display severe complications, the FDA will be forced to withdraw the drug. 
''The FDA withdraws it if thnre are !too many reports! of side elTccts," Black said. "Once it is approved that doesn't rmian its going lo stay. That's good news for us." 
The effective use of the drug in Europti shows that the drug is ,afe, according to Edwards. 
•·1t has been under clinical study for over 10 years," Ed wards said. "It is 92 to 95 percent effective in France, and has been chosen in one out of evPry three cases. The strength of the medication is that it has proven safe and effective." 
According to the FDA's poli­cy, the treatment will consist of three visits with the proce­d ti re be g i n n in g bero re the 49th day of the pregnancy. 
Mifeprcx will be adminis­te:·ed on the first visit to abort the fetus. The patient will then be directed to come back after two days to rccei:ve M.soprostal, which will expel the fetus. After waiting 12 
more days, women must this case] it only took six return to their physician for a months to go through. The follow-up visit. At this visit, FDA was under a lot of pres­the doctor will determine if sure from the administration the abortion was successful or to get this drug through. For if there must be a surgical America. this has very sad procedure. implications." 
RU-486 was first developed McDonnell agreed with by a French pharmaceutical Black that the fDA had little firm and will be distributed in choice in the matter. the United States by Danco "The FDA is not in the busi­Laboratories, LLC, of New ness of making wise decisions York. The drug, however, is -only technical ones. IlU-481; 
made in China  probably is  
-a country whose unsafe  "This community has a  'safe and effective,'  
drug prod uc­ hard time talking about  omitting the  
tio n makes HU-486 even more danger­ abortion. There was very little coverage ofthe  ironic char­acter of 'safe.' Given  
ous, according  decision."  its  legal  
to Black.  charter, the  
"The drug will be made  Polly Edwards  FDA proba­bly has lit­ 
in  China,  a  executive director of Planned  tle choice in  
country known  Parentood for Northern Indiana  this  mat­ 
to  have  poor  ter,"  he  
drug-making  said.  "For  

procedures," Black said. "The the rDA to approve this drug, company stands to make a I assume that its safety for the great prolit from this. The fact woman must be about the that a communist company is same as that of surgical proce­going t'o make a drug to desta­dures." bilize the American population The disagreement over the may have more political con­FDA's decision has not degen­sequences down the line." erated into violence, nor has 
Black is also disturbed with either side picked up any the political attributes of the implications of such action. drug, which was first banned "This community has a hard by the Bush administration, time talking about abortion." and pushed for approval by Edwards said. "There was the Clinton administra­tion. 
"The Clinton adminis­
tration has been very 
r
active to push this 

very little coverage of the deci­
sion. We as an organization 
LPlanned Parenthood) have not 
heard that many people 
demonstrating. Nothing has 
happened since the rally. I 
don't know what the anti­
choice people will try to figure 
out next." 

Students in Saint Mary's Right to Life. however. see HU­486 as no different than surgi­cal abortion and hope to edu­cate students about the moral implications of RU-486. 
"It's pretty much similar to a regular abortion. It's not easi­er," co-president Erica DeVoir said. "As a club, our job is to educate people and make sure thev understand the risks involved. I don't think people realize what a baby is when this is involved. It is important for a woman to know that it is a baby and it will feel pain." 
McDonnell feels that pro-life advocates must educate the general population about abortion. 
"There is a ways to go in persuading our fellow citizens of the horror of abortion," McDonnell said. "We cannot rely on the government's legal and regulatory authorities to do this hard work for us." 
David Solomon, of Notrn Dame's Center for Ethics and Culure, declined to comment on RU-486. 
Professor 
continued from page 4 
dent remains under investi­gation. 
Funeral services for Makielski are planned !'or today at 12:25 p.m. at St. Joseph's Chapel on the Holy Cross campus. 
According to students, Makiclski made a big impact on the campus dur­
ing his brief tenure.  
"Holy  Cross  is  a  very  
small  comm unity  and  
everybody  knows  each  

other. To hear news like this is devastating," said Lance Hendron, a sopho­more in one of Makielski's courses. 
"lie was a very cool guy, very down-to-earth," Hendron said. 
"All the students who had him as a professor feel the same way." 
College administrators will meet in the next week to decide on an appropriate course of action to take concerning Makiclski's classes, Bradley said. 
The officials will choose whether to cancel the courses or continue them with a substitute instructor, she said. 


HEART OF CHICAGO 

Advantage.
The john Marshall Law School prides itself on a rich 10I-year history of diversity, innovation and opportunity. Learn about our programs and specialties during 

Year in and year out, employees at education and
our visit to your campus, including: 

research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. 
• lntcllcctual Property 

And for good reasons: 
• Information Technology 

• Easy diversification among a range of expertly
• Legal Writing 

managed funds 
• Trial Advocacy 

• A solid history of performance and exceptional 
• January Admission 

personal service 
( December LSA T acccpred) 

• 
A strong commitment to low expenses 

• 
Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options


"Law Fair" 

For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff
Tuesday, Oct 24 

at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­
11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Joyce Athletic-and· 

and enjoy-successful retirements.
Convocation Center 

Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple
Or visit us at www.jmls.edu 

Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF. 
LEGACY OF OPPORTUNITY A LIFETIME OF ACHIEV-EMENT
11 A 

through," Black said. RETIREMENT INSUijAl'':1(£ MUTUAL FUNDS 'TBU,ST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING "Usually the FDA will do six years of testing. [In 
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1choice nationwide? 
Cal/ us for\

The TIAA-CREF ~
. afree mformatio.. n. . .
package ··. ·••· 
,, 

THE TIAA-CREF ADVANTAGE  '  
Investment Expertise  
Low Expenses  
Customized Payment Options  
Expert Guidance  i '  

.,.,., '·~,,,,
.. 

!--------------------------~· ~ ~~ -----­
II l E 

ii 
Ensuring the future 
1.800.842.2776
JOHN MARSHALL 

for those who shape it.'"
LAW SCHOOL'" 

www.tiaa-cref.org 
31S SOUTH PLYMOUTH COURT, 

For more complete 1nformat1on on our secunties products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully
CHICAGO, IL 60604 

before you invest. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers 
800.537.4280 

Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co, New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provrdes trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and ore not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 

ATION 
Friday, October 13, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. detects Iraqi troop movement: 
Iraqi troops have been spotted moving west and north from the Baghdad area, but the move­ments do not appear to signal proparation for an attack, the White House said Thursday. White !louse spokesman Jake Siewert said there could be a variety of explanations for the movements, including training deployments or a defensive deployment similar to one under­taken by Iraq in February 1998. 
Oil workers seized in Ecuador: 
Colombian rebels seized a helicopter from an oil field in the Amazon jungle early Thursday. kidnapping six Americans and at least four oth­ers and Hying them into Colombian territory, military officials said. The hostages were taken at gunpoint before dawn in the El Coca region, 150 miles southeast of the capital, Quito. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
LA employees return to work: 
Thousands of' striking Los Angeles County employees returned to work Thursday, heeding a plea from the archbishop on behalf of "the poorest and most vulnerable" people in the community. Union leaders representing 47,000 county workers put the day-old walkout on hold Wednesday night as lines grew in hospital wait­ing rooms and ambulances were diverted to private clinics. The union -which includes health care workers. librarians and mainte­nance workers -acted after an appeal from Cardinal Roger Mahony, head of the 4-million­membcr Archdiocese of Los Angeles. 
Detained suspect kills Mich. cop: A 
drug suspect being booked at police headquar­ters Wednesday pulled a gun from his pants. fatally shot a veteran detective, then turned the gun on himself. Ljeka Juncaj, 29, arrested in an undercover drug operation, struggled with and shot Detective Christopher Wouters. Police Chief James Vohs said Thursday. Both men died in the hospital. Juncaj was arrested with 400 ecstasy pills. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Judge rules video game ordinance legal: A federal judge ruled that an Indianapolis city ordinance restricting youth access to yiolent video games is legal and can take effect immediately. The City-County Council passed the ordinance July 10, and it was to go into effect Sept. 1. However, repre­sentatives of the pay-for-play video game indus­try -including manufacturers. distributors and arcade owners -sued on Aug. 21, seeking a preliminary injunction to stop the ordinance from taking elTect. 
Market Watch 10/12 

Dow 
10,034.58 -379.21 

]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: Volume:

1.261 496 
1,181.516,544 

AMEX: 913.41 -2.14 Nasdaq: 3074.68 -93.81 NYSE: 624.12 -16.30 S&P 500: 1329.78 -34.81 
• 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEIIDERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY  %CIIANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  14.'13  ,l ~4  37.12  
CISCO sYSTEMS (CSCO)  -2.'16  -1.37  49.81  
HOME DEPOT 1;,;c (HD)  -lH.73  -14.05  34.88  
flASDAQ IIHI Sf 1-IR (QQQ)  -2.52  -1'!4  75 12  
DELL COMPUTER (DELL)  ,0,83  -t-0.19  2319  

YEMEN 


AFP Photo The port side of the guided missile destroyer USS Cole was damaged after a suspected terrorist bomb exploded during a refueling operation in the port of Aden in Yemen. Five sailors were killed in the blast, which the U.S. government says was caused by terrorists in a small boat. 
Five die in attack on U.S. ship 
Secretary William Cohen Pentagon. Clinton also U.S. citizens and interests.
Associated Press 

told a Pentagon news con­ordered a heightened state Americans were urged to 
ADEN ference. of alert for all U.S. military maintain "a high level of 
In a sinister slip through President Clinton said installations around the vigilance." Navy security, suicide the attack on the USS Cole, world. In a parallel travel warn­bombers in a small boat one of the world's most After the attack, ambu­ing, Americans were tore a gaping hole in a U.S. advanced warships, lances rushed to the port, advised to defer all travel warship Thursday at a appeared to be an act of and Americans working to Israel, the West Bank refueling stop in a Yemeni terrorism, the worst with Yemeni authorities and Gaza, and those harbor on the Arabian against the U.S. military cordoned off the area. already there were told to Peninsula, U.S. officials since the bombing of an Security sources said with­stay at home or get to a say. The blast killed five Air Force barracks in out elaboration that a safe location. Americans members of the crew, Saudi Arabia in 1996 that number of people had were warned not to go to injured three dozen and killed 19 troops. been detained for ques­Yemen. left 12 missing. "We will find out who tioning; it was not clear Yemeni President Ali 
The crippled ship was was responsible and hold whether any were sus­Abdullah Saleh talked with tilting slightly in the har­them accountable,"Clinton pects. Secretary of State bor at Aden, Yemen, but pledged. The State Department Madeleine Albright, the Navy said it was not in He dispatched to Yemen issued a worldwide alert, pledged his cooperation in danger of sinking. investigative teams from saying it was extremely the investigation and visit­
No one has claimed the FBI, the State concerned about the possi­ed some of the injured who 
responsibility, Defcnso Department and the bility of violence against were hospitalized locally. 
GAZA STRIP 

Israel rockets Arafat's compound 
A»ociatcd Press 

GAZACrn· 
In a day of incendiary violence that left Mideast peacemaking in ashes, Israeli helicopters rocketed Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's compound Thursday in retaliation for the mutilation of three Israeli soldiers by a mob of enraged Palestinians. 
The day began with U.N. Secretary• General Kofi Annan and CIA chief George Tenet trying to broker a truce to end two weeks of dai_ly fighting. 
But it degenerated swiftly, with both sides unleashing pent-up rage. 
The Palestinians inflicted the worst losses yet on Israeli troops, while Israel's combat helicopters staged unprecedented attacks on high-pro­file Palestinian targets and tanks rumbled to the outskirts of Palestinian cities, 
One Israeli rocket struck 150 feet from Arafat's seaside residential headquarters, with the Palestinian leader inside at the time, his aides said. 
"This is a declaration of war  - a  
crazy war," said Saeb Erekat,  a  
senior Palestinian official.  

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak said Arafat "docs not appear to be a partner for peace at this time." 
Barak said he held Arafat indirectly responsible for the killing of the sol­diers. and said Israel would hunt down those involved. lie demanded that the United States publicly affix blame to Arafat for the collapse of the peace talks and the escalation of violence. 
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 13, 2000 
David Small and Sarah Stewart, award winn:hig husband and wife team have<eollaborated as audlof>and illustrator on a number of cij)dren's books,'in9luqi11g,>t·O<:c;;:.f The Gardener, The Library, j~~ The Mo11ey .1r~f-Th~X'~?; ~;;/ join us Saturday, Oct. 14 at't:oo p.m., todiscus~(ij!::ttf;c sign copies of David's newly illustrated So lou Wa1t 2g.;.f1!:-iii::'. Be President? David's hilarious illustrations complemejf'.. ;};< ' this rip-roaring celebration of forty-one Presidents}<. ;1 
~' 

showing us the foibles, the quirks, and most of aU'.;.!.;.c: ·-·• the humanity of those men who have risen to on~.jf:t ;( the most powerful positions in the world. What a:&11. .... < way for youngsters to learn about our country's lead~t$. 
Father Donald Cozzens is president-rector and professor of pastoral theology at Saint Mary Semin~ry and Graduate School ofTheology in Cleveland. His timely new book entitled The Changing Face oftbe Priesthood is inspiring considerable discussion aqd debate on why the priesthood is in a state of crisis•. F~. Cozzens j9.ips us !fin.day, Oct. 15 at 2:30 p.m., for discussioh and book signing. 
Tuesday, Oct. 17at 11:00 a.m. Scorytime story Jubal's Wish, by Don and Audrey Wood, and sing-along. 
HAMMES 

Friday, October 13, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Nobel Prize candidate
Dining halls offer food facts 
. Online service now provides nutrition facts for students 
By MEG DADAY 
News Writer 
As students pick up a tray and silverware in South Dining Hall on Tuesdays and Thursdays around 11 :45, they can often smell the aroma of homemade cookies coming out of the oven. For some stu­dents, the question that immediately springs to mind is: How many Calories are in that cookie'?· 
The answer lies on the Notre Dame Food Services Web site, where the nutrition­al content of everything found in the dining halls is listed. 
"We've gotten a lot of requests for this informa­tion," said manager of nutri­tion and safety Jocelyn Antonelli. 
Although the site was ready for use at the beginning of the semester, it had not been widely advertised until recently because there were a lot of "kinks" in the system. Since most of the problems have been fixed, posters in the dining halls now ask. "How does your nutrition add 
?"
up. 
Students interested in find­ing out how healthy they real­ly eat can login into the site with their AFS IDs and pass-
S T U D 
Recording• Production• Mast·• Duplication • Music & Vocal L · • Demo Production • Music Equi :. 
Sound & Lights • Sales & Rei:t Analog 2" & Digital Hard Drive S.-, "The Biggest Recording Stu · In Northwest Indiana .. 
words and continue by click­ing on a particular day of the month and the particular meal in question. 
Each meal is broken down into the various sections of the dining hall; dinner lists include home-style favorites, pizza, Mexican, the grill and Italian. Food items are listed under subheadings with a complete nutritional content listing for each. 
"I don't know how people are going to use the Web site." said Antonelli. "There are good ways and there are scary ways." 
She said the Web site "can have a really good purpose" because it allows athletes and students with health concerns who have legitimate reasons for monitoring the nutritional content of what they eat, such as anemia or high cholesterol do so. However, Antonelli is concerned that students who have eating disorders or eat­ing issues could misuse the site. 
Refore its implementation, students had to meet with Antonelli in order to find out nutrition information. 
"I was always the stop gap. I could at least provide con­versation with the numbers," said Antonelli. 
Although the site makes nutritional information easier to access, Antonelli hopes students will still refer to her if they have any questions. 
"I want students to use the information in a good way," said Antonelli. "They should be educated about things which are higher in fat and higher in Calories and bal­ance them against things that are lower in fat and Calories over the course of the day." 

Junior Caroline Cran uses the Web site regularly to monitor her eating habits. "I like the reassurance that I'm eating a healthy diet," said Craft, who also said that one of the main reasons she uses it is to check the nutritional value of things, such as soup and other "stuff where I didn't know all of the ingredi­ents," which arc prepared by food services. 
Antonelli and Craft agree that more students need to be educated about nutrition. 
"All our lives our moms cooked for us -until we got to college -now we have to choose what we want com­pletely on our own," said Craft. 
"In the dining hall, people just go for what they like instead of thinking about receiving all the nutrients they need. Many people aren't aware of what a bal­anced meal consists of." 
"If people have accurate knowledge, they can put any food item in the dining hall into a healthy eating plan. Students need to stay away from labeling food," Antonelli said. "Nobody should be going through life counting calories and counting fat grams." 
to discuss human life 
~J:.: , OREAr WALL
_ Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American 
'1/r::· Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days
:\~·•,.,,~
"\; =;,r..;· · Lunch Spec,al$4 75 -· Mon • Fn 11.30 -3 00 PM ~ ! Dinner Starting at $6 45
~~

f.J',°11 ·· Sunday -Thursday 11 30 AM · 10 00 PM~Jiw~-~ ,l Fnday-Saturday 1130AM-11·00PM
I-• 

Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday i'i 11 a.m to 3 p.m. '1,1 $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children under 1 O 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture will host an academic conference entitled. "A Culture of Death," Thursday through Saturday at McKenna Hall. · 
Among the principal speak­ers at the center's inaugural conference will be Sister Helen Prejean, a leading can­did ate for this year's Nobel Peace Prize. Whose winner will be announced during the conference today. 
Prejean. a member of the Sisters of St. Joseph of Medaille, is the author or the bestselling book, "Dead Man Walking," which, along with the 1995 film it inspired, has made her an internationally prominent advocate for the abolition or capital punish­ment. She received Notre Dame's highest honor. the Laetare Medal, in 1996. 
The conference will concern Pope John Paul Il's claim that a pervasive "culture of death" threatens the sanctity and dig­nity of human life in contem­porary society. The first of a triennial series of interdisci­plinary conferences on life issues planned by the Center for Ethics and Culture. it will address a wide variety of top­ics, including war. totalitari­anism, abortion. mass commu­nication and the media, physi­cian assisted suicide, the oppression of women, technol­ogy and human flourshing, racism, human dignity and 


Vierna1nese St:udenr !.Association 
ef'Notre 'Dame 
(VSA) 

Firs-t General Mee-tingH! 
When: 8:30pm, Sunday, Oc"tober 29, 2000 Where: LaFor-tune Coali"tion Room (2nd floor) Who: All in-teres-ted par-ties) 
(Questions? Contact ND.vsand.1@nd.edu) 
human rights, the arts, the plight of the world's children the responsibilities of business and the exploration of the developing world. 
Other conference speakers include Judge John Noonan, Jr. of the Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and Clynes Visiting Professor of Law at Notre Dame; moral philoso­pher Aladair MacIntyre, research professor of philoso­phy of Notre Dame; Helen Alvaro, former spokesperson for the U.S. bishops on pro-life issues; Hans Reinders of Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, author of "The Future of the Disabled in Liberal Society;" 
H. Tristram Englehardt, pro­fessor of philosophy at Rice University; Commonweal columnist Sidney Callahan, professor of psychology at Mercy College; Gilbert Meilaender, professor of phi­losophy at Valparaiso University; Margaret Monahan Hogan, professor of philoso­phy at Kings College; and Ralph Mcinerny, professor of philosophy and director of the Jacques Maritain Center at Notre Dame. 
The conference. which is free and open to the public, will conclude with Mass at 
5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
A schedule and further information on the conference may be obtained from Tracy Westlake at (219) 631-9656 or by e-mail from ndethics@nd .ed u 
You know that noise your heart makes 
when you workout? 
IT'S CALLED APPLAUSE. 

Think of each beat as your heart's way of cheer­ing you on for staying physically ~ctive. Want a standing ovation? Try keeping your diet low in cholesterol and saturated fat too. For more ways to lower your risk of heart attack and stroke, visit 
www.americanheart.org or can 1-800-AHA-USA1. 
. Heart
Amencan v"'­
Association. 
'I ­

Fighting Heart Oiseue 1nd Stroke 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, October 13, 2000

pa~e 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining !-1.ll, Norr< Darn,, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gilbpie  Tim Lane  
A.•sT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Christine Kraly  Brian Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly V!FWl'OINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith ScF.NE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SA1m· MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 

,\DVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters AD OF.SIGN MANAC.f.R: Chris Avila S1"!.TEMS ADMJNl~TRATOR: Mike Gunville Wi;n Af>MJNIHR,HOR, Adam T umer CoNTROLILIII Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENEJW. INF0..............631-7471 F1Jt. .. .. ... .. ... ... ... . . .. .. . . .. .. .. .. . . ... ... ... .631-6927 AlJVERl"ISING...................................63 l-6')00/8840 
ubserv~r@darwin.cc. nd .edu E111TOR IN CHIEF ....................................... 631-4 542 I',! ANAGING EmroR/Ass-r. ME.. . .............. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE......................................631-5313 NF.WS.........................................................631-5323 
ubserver.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.. ..............................................631-5303 observer .viewpoint.J@nd.edu S'ORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu 
S:ENE. .......................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. I@nd.edu 

SUITT MARv's.. ...................................... ...631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 

PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WES ADMINISTRATORS......... .......631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at lmp:llobs,rvrr.nd,du for daily updates of campus nc:ws, spores, features and opinion c,,Jumns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news f,om the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
weekly studem reviews
minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
anicles published after 
ro meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is Hot governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the righc to refuse :tdvertisements based on comen t. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 1,ossible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
he majority of the Edicor in Chief, Managing Editor, <\ssisrant Managing Editor and department editors. 2ommentaries, letcers and columns present the views :>f the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vi-=wpoint space is available 10 all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lc:uers is encouraged. Leners lO the Ednor m,m be signed and must indudc contact mformacion. 
Quc!hom r,,garding Obseroer policie! 1hollld be dir,.,·1­ed to Edi1or in ChiefMi}u Connolly 
DILBERT 
'(QU NE.ED "DOG BER T'S 0'($fUNCTIO NAL EMPLOYEE RECRUIT­MENT SERVICES." 


Using RU-486 requires careful thought 
RU-486 provides a different, less inva­through a series of steps. The patient's sive method to terminate a pregnancy. doctor will give her three mifcpristone Moral implications, however, still sur­pills to take in the doctor's office. Forty­round the use of RG-486 as much as eight hours later, two misoprostol pills 
they surround a surgical abortion. Although the pill may appear to be procedurally easi­er it is a means to the same end. 
The HU-486 pill, 4mifepristone, 

OJhe userver 
Editorial 
are take:n, causing contrac­tions that lead to a miscar­riage, usually within four days. A third doctor's visi­tor is essential in confirm­ing the procedure's suc­cess. The pill has been proven to be 92 to 97 per­cent effective. There are, 

can be used at any time before the eighth week of conception. Women wanting to use the RU-486 pill go 
I ONL'( RECRUIT EMPLOYEES WHO WERE RAISED IN DYSFUNCTIONA.L FAMILIES. THEY 
DON'T t-\IND BEING MISTREATED! 
1 

however, possible side effects of severe bleeding. 
If a woman is considering a surgical abortion, the implications ofchoosing HU-486 arc no greater, nor are they any less. Social implications, emotional repercussions and considerations that women take into account should not change because the procedure has changed. 
We are not arguing RU-486 should not be legal, nor arc we supporting the fact that it is. A thorough consideration of the implications of abortion must pre­cede the use of HU-486 the same way it must precede a surgical abortion. Decisions about HU-486 must be educat~ ed ones. HU-486 is an abortion. It should not be viewed as anything else. 

A philosophical reproach to embryo testing 
This letter is in response to Peter Prina's letter to the editor printed in the Oct. 11 edition of The Observer. He seems entirely convinced that human embryos are not true people and that using them for research poses no moral dilemma whatsoever. Even those who support his view of embryological research would have to admit that there are truly no con­vincing arguments proving that embryos • are definitely not people with rights. I am certain, for philosophical reasons, that embryos have a right to life. Even if I wasn't sure of this, the very doubtfulness of the issue would lead me to object to research being done on them. 
Here's an example from Philosophy 
101. Apply the logic of Pascal's Wager to the situation. Since there is no proof that embryos are not people, there must be at least a very small chance that they are people with a right to life equal to the right you or I have. So then we have two options: either to believe that killing these embryos for research is morally accept­able or that killing them is wrong. (I should state that, from my limited know!­edge of you, I think you would agree that I am correct in presuming you think killing people is wrong). 
Suppose you think that killing embryos is wrong because they are people, so you don't use them for research, but in "absolute truth" they really are not peo­ple, so you have gained nothing at all. 
Second, suppose you think that killing them is wrong, and in "absolute truth" they really are people despite the small chance we thought they had of being pco­pie. In this case millions of lives have been spared. 
Third, suppose you think killing them is fine, and in the "absolute truth" they are not people. You have neither gained nor lost anything substantial except perhaps some useful techniques for treating peo­pie with certain diseases. 
Lastly, suppose you believe killing embryos is OK, but in "absolute truth" they are people -in that case you have allowed millions of people to die for research, albeit potentially very useful and life-saving research. 
Going on sheer math and assuming that the more lives saved or improved the bet­tcr (a view expressed in the article), one would have to say that the best option is to treat embryos as people if one cannot be positive that they are not. 
Perhaps people have heard this before and know some interesting ways around its reasoning. I don't know where every­one is coming from on this issue, and I hope I haven't insulted Peter's intelli­gence. However, regardless of what was intended to be achieved by submitting the comment, I think he has shown that the flinging back and forth of arbitrary opin­ions on ethical issues without getting down to the real subject of' controversy is yet another fine tradition here at Notre Dame and he should be proud of' hi con­tribution. So, at the risk of' offending Mr. Prina further, let me say this: If you have something consequential to say on a potentially life-or-death issue. then make sure to include it in your Viewpoint com­ment next time so the rest of us can come to some sort of new understanding; other­wise, please don't say anything at all. 
Karen Chockley 
Sophomore 
Walsh Hall 
October 11, 2000 

SCOTT ADAMS 
HOW 

I HAVE A
SOON 
DOZEN IN
CAN YOU 
THE TRUNK
GET ME 
OF t-\Y
SOME? 
) CAR. 
\ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There can be no question ofholding forth on ethics. I have seen people behave badly with great morality and I note every day that integrity has no need of rules." 
Albert Camus author 
E 
a 
0
., 
® 
~ 
,.II 
8 II n 
E 
0 
0 
t! 
a, 
fl 
.; 
.: 
! 
u 
'ij 
"
.. 
"' 
~ 
•. , ,."" 
.! 
;:: 
:, 
0 0 0 
"' 
Q 
1 
~ 
-r 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Friday, October 13, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
De-emphasizing the role of guilt in our society 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Stating true intentions of campus right to life groups 
I would like to respond to two recent opinion articles that have run in The Observer within the past few days. The first article ran on Oct. 10 as the Inside Column and was written by Maribel Morey. The second article was a response to Ms. Morey's article and appeared Oct. 11. It was written by Natalie Huddleston and entitled "Supporting abortion as Christians." 
Ms. Morey's article was a critique of Notre Dame Right to Life's "Cemetery for the Innocents" which was put up on Friday, Oct. 6. Ms. Morey explains that the display of white crosses is offensive and hurtful towards women who have had abortions. Saint Mary's College Right to Life also displayed the cemetery last week as part of National Respect Life week. Our intent was never to hurt any­one, only to raise awareness of the alarming amount of deaths that occur everyday in our nation due to abortion. 
I would like to thank Ms. Morey, however. for bringing a very important issue to the !'orefronethe problem of post-abortion syn­drome. Her article was very successful in pointing out how devas­tating abortion can be emotionally and mentally for women. This is not something many people are aware of, and something many abortion proponents deny. Right to Life is not just about protecting the unborn, but also about protecting women. 
As for Ms. Huddleston's letter to the editor, she is right about one thing -groups who claim to be pro-life/Christian but resort to bombing or driving a car into an abortion clinic are absolutely wrong. Viciously taunting women entering an abortion clinic or judging women who have had abortions is not at all what Christ would have us do. As Christians we are called to act through mercy and love, not hatred and self-righteousness. 
However, there is one point that needs to be made extremely clear here. Neither Saint Mary's College or Notre Dame's Right to Life group use these methods when defending the unborn. We do not use "tools of violence, intimidation, false rhetoric and emotion­al manipulation" to help our cause, nor do we endorse anyone who uses these methods. In fact, our purpose is quite the opposite. 
As is stated in our mission statement, SMC Right to Life "encour­ages respect for all human life from conception until natural death and serves the women of Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and the local community who find themselves in crisis pregnancies... " 
My main purpose for writing this letter is to set the record straight. I want to make sure that Ms. Morey, Ms. Huddleston, and all those who share their mind sets understand what Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Right to Life stand for. We are not here to con­demn or judge. We are here to help, to love and to promote life in all of its stages. 
Erica DeVoir 
Junior off-campus October 11, 2000 

Having to live with University policies even after graduation 
Since most of lhe students will not be around to read today's column, it will read much as the tith~ says it should read; a collection of ravings that might generally tend toward a point. 
First on the list is a letter that I received in the mail a few weeks ago from our distin­guished University president. Maybe this is a holdover from when I was an undergraduate, but anytime that I get a letter that reads "University of Notre Dame, Office of the President" I immediately open it and excit­edly gaze at its contents. 
Did you ever have some­one's secretary call you and, as soon as you answer, ask you to "please hold for the CEO," then patches that per­son through to you? Well, this letter was similar in that Father Malloy was telling me that I should expect another letter from the development office shortly and that it was important to donate to Notre Dame. 
While I will agree that Notre Dame is a worthv cause, in that I would give· money to help someone who could not otherwise attend have the same experience that I had, I do not know if I will give money this year. 
First of all, the Generations campaign has generated more money than I can ever imag­ine. If every contribution to Notre Dame over the last cou­ple of years has been funneled into that, then it makes sense that it would raise such a large amount of money. But then they turn around and build such ridiculously expen­sive buildings as the new sci­ence facility, ignoring the Arts and Letters departments that are crammed into crowded lit­tle offices in ancient O'Shaughnessey Hall. Now, I understand that Malloy agreed with me last year that ignoring Arts and Letters at this college would be a bad idea, but I will believe that when such a disproportionate amount of the University's funding does not go towards new science sprawl. 

Secondly. despite raising tuition again and busting through the stratosphere with fund-raising efforts last year, Malloy actually claims that the University will face a financial crisis in the coming years. I find that very hard to believe. I will give him the benefit of the doubt on this until I actu­ally get a chance to peruse the numbers (an activity impossi­ble over the web, I need to get a copy of the University bud­get). But I am straining the quality of belief to its fullest because it simply does not make any sense. 
Finally, I have not, in the last two years, seen a single alumni ticket application. You can rail as much as you want against the alumni who sold their tickets to Nebraska fans. I didn't have that option. I was never even given the option to buy them. 
I know that you have to donate in order to get an appli­cation and that it is very possible that in 1999 my application got lost in the mail because I had moved around so often in 1998. And yes, I gave no money in 2000. I was still angry from being snubbed in 1999. But I don't think that one's eligibility should be based on donation. I don't know what kind of society you want to live in, but I know that I don't like the idea of reward­ing people who donate large sums of money with extra tickets. My father used to donate a lot of money. He seemed not even slightly sur­prised when he was able to acquire front row seats to the Fiesta Bowl in 1995 for my sisters and he used to get pairs of tickets for almost every home game. 

On a somewhat related note, who updates these databases? Somehow the University can find me at my address in Kensington, Md. in order to beg me for money for Generations (Somehow, I think, because I provided them with it a short while ago). But they were not able to find that address to send my ticket application? 
Additionally, despite repeat­ed attempts to correct this information, they cominue to 
warn my father that his Sorin Club membership has lapsed and that his class reunion is coming up. Since his passing in 1997 though, I 
don't think that he much cares about those details. 
Actually, I sup­pose that will be first and last on the list of gripes 
this week. I could have gone politi­cal and addressed the debates, the difference between exagger­ation and lack of knowledge, or the 
abhorrent way this University treats gay and lesbian 
students. I could have resorted to 
sports and com­plained about the possibility of a New York subway series or praised our players for 

winning games in spite of their coach. But I suppose that will be 
fodder for future columns. 
Matt Loughran is a '97 graduate ofNotre Dame is and currently assistant editor at Rowman & Littlefield Publishing Group in Lanham, Md. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those oJThe Observer. 
I am writing in response to Brant Beckett's letter to the editor in the Oct. 11 Observer. I, like Brant, am neither pro-life nor pro-choice, but I am a Cathollc. I find myself drawn between what my faith and many of the pro­choice arguments have to say on the topic. 
Last Friday, as my roommate and 1 walked to calculus, I was very uneasy about walking among all the crosses. If I felt uneasy about walking through these crosses, I can't imagine the feel­ing felt by someone who had made the decision to have an abortion. In many ways, I agree with what Maribel Morey said in her Oct. 9 column and Natalie Huddleston agreed with in her Oct. 10 letter to the editor. I think Maribel relates an abortion to something every­one has experienced very well. She says, "Imagine 500 copies of your worst exam copied and laid out on the lawn. The shame to know that everyone knows you failed." You would feel embarrassed ev-en if you and God were the only ones that knew that test was yours. She goes on to say that every year this would remind someone of their actions and add to their guilt. 
This brings me to my personal point. I do not agree with the comment made by Brant about the man outside the abortion clinic. He would ask women who were entering the clinic, "Please, Ma'am, don't kill your baby." Brant claims that this man has the. right to do what he is doing. I strongly disagree. People can have their own opinions and the right to voice their opinions, but they do not have the right to harass people who do not feel the same way. 
They do not have the right to make other people feel guilty about the choic­es they make in their life. That is exact­ly what this unidentified man was doing and exactly what the crosses were try­ing to do to the Notre Dame students. 
Nick Reifsteck 
Freshman Alumni Hall October 11, 2000 


C 
s
en@ 
OTHE page 10 BSERVER Friday, October 13, 2000 
One room, two strangers 
J,~isa Hartliy-Werner and Gina Moody were strangers as freshmen year roomma 
By Lt\URA KELLY Ass sranc Scene Editor 
Freshmen roommatHs moet for the lint timn surrounded by over-emotional parnnls, knee-deep in boxes of their worldly possp,ssions, thflir heads swirling with new names and faces. Tlrny exchange quick handshakes and smile nf'rvously as they gaze around the eight-by-10 foot closet they will call home for the next nine months. Oner. the families arc finally pLshed oul of tho door and the stnmm of ori­t>r tation activities lulls for a momf'nt. L\\ o strangers are left alone in a single room. 
'\ ypar of f'il"sts· lies ahead of them. They may become tbe bnsl of fr. finds or the w,·irst of emi­m ies, but for now, thev know nolhin·g ahout the pnr­sr,n sleeping in the bunk below them. As the weeks begin to roll by, the strangers slowly get tn know each other. Annoying habits sneak out in the open. Tensions can flare as the stress of' college cl asses piles up. Shared fears and e:{citements give them common ground. ThAy learn to share; they learn to com­promise; they learn each other. And sometimes, late at night, when the room is dark and quiet, they open up their hearts and let the other in. 
Sometimes roommates decide to live together again for sophomore year ­they get along, know they can live with each other's faults and figure it's a pret­t11 decent situation. But sometimes, the t;,vo become inseparable. Best friends who can read each other's minds. Soulmates who can't believe that a ran­dom computer selection brought them together. And this is a story of two r:Jommates like this. 
Gina Moody came to Notre Dame from Youngstown, Ohio. She had exchanged letters and pho­
Pasquerilla East for the first time, she 
had no idea what to expect. 

Risa Hartley-Werner had driven to South Bend from Fort Wayne, Ind. She lugged her boxes up to the second floor of PE and opened the door to room 612 eager w put a face with a name. 
The room was nothing extraordinary, 
the same size as all the others (though 
the girls now claim it was four inches 
bigger than the rest, and still no one 
believes them i. That first night, Gina 
and Risa climbed into bunk 
beds just like every other 
freshman "Pvro." And 
they soon ·began to 
form a friendship, 
much like all the 
new roommates 
around them. 
Gina and 
Risa shared 
much in 
common 
from the 
beginning. 
Both came 
to school 
w i t h 
boyfriends 
from home, 
something 
thev look 
back on now 
and laugh. 
Both girls were 
night owls, stay­
ing up all night 
and then sleeping 
late into the day. 
Their sleeping habits 
earned them the nickname 
of "The Vampires" fr~m the other freshmen in section 6A. Gina and Risa liked to leave the lights on all night, once prompting their friends to steal all the lightbulbs and leave a sad note from the bulbs lamenting their overuse. 
Pranks like these became their signa­ture. "It was the strange pranks that made us click," Risa says. "All the funny stuff we did, even when we didn't know each other that well." 
The two claim their only point of con­tention is Gina's beloved childhood doll. Erica is either the ugliest or the cutest doll ever, depending on which you ask, but regardless, fights over the doll have become a source of many stories. One night Risa and a friend stole Erica, stuck forks in her wild blond hair and tied her hands behind 
Though Risa (above left) and Gina (above right) no longer live together, they are a freshman double In Pasquerllla East. These years spanned everything from T-s plenty of memories and stories to tell. 
back. In turn, Gina stole and hid all of 
Risa's underwear -a revenge Risa 
didn't notice until franticly dressing for 
class the next morning. 
Beyond practical jokes, the girls dis­covered a shared true love, one that would bring them together every Thursday night. Promptly at 9 p.m. they would lock the door and take the phone off the hook -a sacred ritual they never missed. It was "Must-See-TV," and the man that brought the two room­mates together was George Clooney. 
"George became a priority early on," says Gina. The two often dreamed up plans to drop out of school and move to LA in 
hopes of stalking the "ER" bunk. Their 
shared obsession says to this day ­
Clooney's smile beams from a wall full 
of pictures in Gina's room. When the 
star left "ER" in February of 1999 (a 
date Gina recites from memory.) the 
friends wore black for a week to show 
their mourning. 
"It was very hard on us," Gina says. "We didn't go to class all day Thursday, and I even sent in a note to my Core class explaining why I couldn't attend." 
As freshman year went on, Gina and Hisa discovered more quirky similarities -£ love of Mary Tyler Moore on "Nick at Nite" and a craving for Reckers food at all hours of the night. Both are very close to their families, and understood the many phone calls from home. One day Gina's parents called up to wish her a happy "half-birthday," a family tradi­tion she bashfully admitted to her room­mate, only to learn that Risa's family celebrates half-birthdays as well. 
Freshman year was a difficult transi­tion, Risa says, but having such a fast friend eased the change. When the time came for room picks, the freshmen of 6A had formed a group that wanted to stick together, but the gods of 


O
THf Friday, October 13, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
three years of memories ­

asleep," admits Risa. In characteristic fashion, the roommates slept through the deadline for returning housing con­tracts. When Gina finally realized what had happened -at dinner later that night -it was too late. Both were dropped to the bottom of the room picks list. 
As 6A was one of the least popular 
sections in PE, and as room 


612 was one of last 
available, the 
roommates 
f o u n d 
them ­


selves in the same room for another year. The coincidence seemed funny, but it wasn't until they planned to stay in 612 for their junior year that people started to notice and comment on the strange choice. 
Gina and Risa realize how unusual their situation is. They admit that find­ing such an incredible friend through random computer selection may be more that just luck of the draw. But they don't take the friendship for grant­ed. After three years of waking up with the same roommate, many people couldn't stand the little idiosyncrasies any more. 
"Clicking with someone in this way is rare," savs Risa. "But we have been through s·o much together. It's all the little moments we share that mean the most." 
Among their favorite friendship sto­ries is the road trip they took this sum­mer from Maryland through Ohio and Indiana to Chicago for a Jimmy Buffet show. Not only did the trip thrill die­hard fan Gina, but both girls look back on that week as a time or fun that reflects everything their friendship is about. 
"Two things we love are pajamas and "T.G.1. Priday's," Gina says. 
And this trip combined both, as the girls walked dffwn the streets of Chicago in pajamas to reach their favorite restaurant. 
"Our moms were appalled at the 
thought of us walking around the city in pajamas," Risa laughs. 
The girls confess this affinity for paja­mas was another shared trait thfly dis­covered early on in the friendship. 
"Some days we would wake up, show­er, and then change into a new pair of pajamas," Risa says. "I don't think any­one but us could understand that." 
The roommates' only real fight was on a spring brnak trip to Miami -some­thing inevitable when traveling with 10 friends. 
"We didn't kill each other, and that says a lot," laughs Gina. 
"Even now, if we disagree, we always have common ground to come back to," Risa says. '"After three years, we're almost like sisters." 
Like a well-rehearsed duet, the two tell stories in tandem. They finish each other's sentences and laugh back and forth with the ease of childhood friends. Yet this year the girls are physically far­ther apart than they've ever been at Notre Dame. Gina is a resident assistant on the third floor of PE, while Risa has chosen to move off campus -repre­senting opposite sides of the senior year experience. 
The girls admit the transition has been strange for them. They still talk often, and their group of friends tries to meet every Friday for lunch. But although Turtle Creek isn't far "from PE, Risa admits to feeling far-removed from campus. She stayed in Gina's room for a few days at the beginning of the year before she could move into her apart­ment, and says it felt odd to know she wouldn't be staying. 
"Senior year is bitter sweet," Risa says. "It's not as carefree as junior year. I think I'll always remember junior year as the true college experience." 
The girls laugh that their mothers seem to be having the hardest time adjusting to the sep­
headaches and we couldn't sleep some nights," says Gina. But the smell gradu­ally wore away, and the friendship was all the stronger for it. 
Room 612 houses sophomores this year. Gina and Risa nostalgically wish it had gone to freshmen, but such is the fate of housing, as they well know. They have plans to mount a plaque outside the door, celebrating how 612 brought thmn together and reminding the cur­rent residents of what strong friend­ships can take root in this hall. 
Gina's room on the third floor still speaks to this tight friendship -pic­tures of the girls share wall space with George Clooney. Gina still sleeps under the comforter that the girls bought to match each other; her room is decorat­ed in purple, the color she and Risa both love. And her loft is half of the structure she and Risa shared during sophomore and junior year. 
But the girls understand that what they share is more than an address. 
"When you liv,e with someone for three years, you take the time for grant­ed -it's not all quality time. Now we make the most of being together," Gina says. 
Risa agrees: "It's nice to know we can be apart and still be friends." 
They laugh and joke, always smiling, always with another story to follow up the last. But there's a sadness behind their eyes when they think about gradu­ation and the uncertainty of next year. Being a few streets away is nothing like being states apart. It's all still a way off, but it's on their mind. They joke that they'll stay friends as long as they have something new to talk about after "Friends" and "E.R." get canceled, but it's more than George Clooney's good looks keeping this friendship together. The walls of 612 Pasquerilla East stand as four witnesses to that truth. 
aration. Every time they call home, their moms ask about the other, concerned about the well-being ­of their pseudo­daughters. Family ties like this will keep the girls close long after the dread­ed graduation day has come and gone. Risa's boyfriend is a hometown friend of Gina, so holidays will always bring the friends back to Youngstown. 
The girls are confi­dent they'll stay good friends no mat­ter where they end 

-,.,.
up after this year. Their dedication to each other is evident in their dedication to room 612, where they stuck out three years despite one incident sophomore vear that almost changed their minds. 
Early in the first semester, their sink started to give off an overwhelming stench, which they fondly compare to sewer gas. 
"The smell was so bad it gave us 
page I:i The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 13, 2000 
=============================================================================================== 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
St.1nford wins defensive struggle 
By SUSAN CARPENTER 
Sport$ W rircr 
Wednesday's game between Stanford and Morrissey was a battle of two defensive powers. 
The .5ame was physical and intens11 as both teams forced multiple turnovers throughout the night. However, it was Stanford who was victorious with a 14-6 win. Overcoming two straight losses. the Griffins
..._ 
pulled together as a team to fond off Morrissey. 
"Our defense played well and our offense got it together," said Strnl'ord coach Errol Hice. 
The first touchdown came from lln interception by HJ Hobert J\ftcr Morrissey player John Caver sacked the quar­terback and recovered the fumble, the Manor inched back with a 30-yard run for the touchdJwn. 
Morrissey's offense threat­
ened to score with several long drives, but Stanford's defense shut them down each time. The Griffins put the nail in the Manor's coffin with a final touchdown run by Chris Pagent. 
JC Chave..:, who has been a key force at tailback all sea, son, played his usual strong game last Wednesday. 
"JC played well," Hice stressed. "He did a good job running the ball all game." 
With no chance of competing in the playoffs. Morrissey entered the game free of pres­sure to win. In true footbal_l spirit, the goal of the night was to have fun and to enjoy their last game of' the season. 
Morrissey co-captain Josh Rife de-emphasized the loss. 
"Yeah, we're disappointed, but it gives us something to shoot for next year," he said. 
He stressed the solid play of their defense for keeping Stanford to only two touch­downs and credits the offense for running the ball well, espe­cially in the second half. 

"Mike Riley had his best game of the season," Hife said. "He was unstoppable as wide receiver. Mike's speed was a key asset to the passing game." 
This was a transitional year for the Manor, but. with much improvement from the fresh­men, they are looking forward to being more of a competitive force next season 
A playoff berth for Stanford will depend on the O'Neill/Keough game after fall break. Stanford needs Keough to win by less than 18 points in order to earn a spot in the post season. Stanford co-captain JC Chavez is optimistic about their chances. 
"For playoff potential, we have a long way to come, but I think we have the talent aud capability to do it," he said. 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Taborga upsets third seeded Hippensteel 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame meu 's tennis junior Javier Taborga upset Stanford's third-seeded and defending champion K.J. Ilippensteel 6-1. 1-6, 6­3 on Friday in the sec­ond round of the Inter­co 11 e g i ate Tennis Association ( I T A J 

Taborga
Men's All­American Championships, the second leg of the ITA Grand Slam at the Lincoln Tennis Center at Stone Mountain. Ga. 
"I served well and that opened up things for my fore­hand· and allowed me to attack," said the lef't-handed Taborga, the first Notre Dame player to reach the round of 16 at the !TA All-American 31st-ranked Georges Matijasevic 6-1, 7-5 in the first round to set up his match against Stanford's No. 1 play­er. Up next for Taborga in the third round will be Georgia freshman Bo !lodge, who def'eated the 13th-seeded play­er in the second round. 
Taborga and llipp,rnsteel split the first two sets 6-1 before Taborga took a 4-2 lead in the third set. Hippensteel broke serve to pull within 4-3. but Taborga then broke back to lead 5-3 and served out the match for 6-3. Taborga earned a spot in the main draw by winning a pair of matches in the qualify­ing draw, defeating Kansas' ud Dus 6-0, 6-1 on Tuesday and East Tennessee State's 65th-ranked Gustavo Gomez 6-4, 6-2 on Wednesday. 
llippenstcel was trying to 
become only the second player in 21 years to 


since Ryan "/just went out there and repeat as 
Sachire in just tried to play the type A I l 1998, who went American
ofgame where he was 
on to reach the champion. 
final that year. going to have to beat me." T h e "Hippensteel is ninth­a great player ranked
Javier Taborga 
and I knew I'd and f'if'th­
junior
have to play s e c d c d 
great to win. I went out there and just tried to play the type of game where he was going to have to beat me," he said. 
The unranked Taborga ­who had beaten one ranked opponent in his first two sea­sons at Notre Dame combined -beat two ranked players on Thursday to reach the final 16. In his first match of the day Taborga defeated Auburn's 
doubles 
pair of' Taborga and junior Aaron Talarico -who lost 6-3, 6-4 to Mississippi State's Hene Combettc in his first qualifying match on Tuesday -begin play in the main draw of the doubles competition on Friday. They will play 42nd-rankcd Chris McDonald and Matt Soto of Mississippi State in the first round. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the'Norrc Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit all classifieds for conrent wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
- BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  That Pretty Place, Bed and  COACH:  Need Jr. High boys  Videotape your next on or off  you know he might be mad  
LOST & FOUND  273-3911  Breakfast Inn has space avail­able for football/parent wknds.  basketball coach. Responsible, dependable student or grad to  campus party! www.icecoldvideo.com  Kate and Finn ­ if I have to  
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  5 Rooms with private baths,  coach 7-8th grade basketball  convince you two any more of  
LOST-Canon zoom camera on  A.M. -232-2378  $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles  8-team, Nov. 13-Feb 23; for  #1 Spring Break 2001 - how wonderful you are, I'm  
9/29. Dmp off in 220 Main  P.M. -288-2726  from campus. Toll Road, Exit  south side elementary school,  Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco,  gonna burst.  
Bldg. Or call 513-703-2990. No  #107, 1-800-418-9487.  located near Scottsdale Mall on  Jamaica, Florida & S.padre.  
questiors asked.  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR  Miami Street. Must be available  Reliable TWA flights. Best  Oh mah Looooord  
SALE  for practices Mon-Thurs from  Prices. Earn$$$ or FREE  
-­ FOUND TREK BIKE in parking lot one  A.M. ­P.M. ­ 232-2378 288-2726  WANTED  2:20-3:15. Game schedule varies.  trips-call for details! 1.800.SURFS.UP  freakola  
week ago.  little low self esteem kids  
CALL MA TT 4-4894.  2 ND/USC Tix + Airfare  UCONNECTIONS.COM  Spring Break 2001 Book group  
LOST on campus at Stanford  GOTO alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_satc  Hiring part-time positions, no experience required. Contact  FOR SALE  of 15 and GO FREE! Book before Nov. 3 for FREE Meals!  Hello, my name is Clarance Howard  
game 1 1/2 inch thick gold  zallen@nd.edu for info.  Visit us at sunsplashtours.com  
bracelet REWARD call Carol at  I NEED 4 BC TIX TOGETHER.  COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS  or call for free info @  50 feet  
312-946-1800.  CAN PAY ONLY $200.  Nead childcare in our Granger  300,000 + private sector schol·  1-800-426-7710  
CALL 243-1621.  home, Tues. and Thurs. Must  arships available for under­ 5 splatters from the loft  
have transportation. Call 271­ graduate and graduate stu­ '88 Ford Taurus, 6-cyl., stereo  
...  ~  TICKETS  NEED AF TICKETS, call with  1935.  dents at accredited colleges in  w/cassette player. Well main­ Thornberg• noted philosophi•  
price 634-3068, ask for Dylan.  the USA regardless of their  tained by responsible female.  cal expert  
NANNY WANTED:  GPA, finances, age or citizen­ $2,000/obo.  
WANTED  ND/AIR FORCE 4 TICS  25-35 hrs/week. Contact Krista  ship. Write or call for FREE  Lv. msg at 291·5366.  Dan is free of the influence  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  ALUMNI END ZONE  @ 425-793-1208 for more info  information and application  
289-92EO  BEST OFFER  or email KROBKE@CERW- Scholarship Database Service  I think I need a dartboard  
415.6n.1310  ER.COM.  P.O. Box432  
URGENT!!!  Notre Dame, IN 46556-0432  PERSONAL  Do you have scabs?  
Need Air Force tickets  Age 55 or over? Earn $10!  Barnyard8961 @hotmail.com  
Call Andrew at 4-4998  Researchers in the Department  1 ·800·936-3706  Impress potential employers.  Hi Carrie, Dawn, Katie,  
SELLINo'.,i ND FOOTBALL TKTS  FOR RENT  of Psychology are conducting a study of posture control, and need healthy men and women  FOR SALE  Keep in contact with friends and relatives. Student business cards are  Danielle, and Carmen Nemo may be better at CS  
251-1570  age 55 or over to participate.  NOW available at  when he's trashed.  
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  This study takes about one  SPRING BREAK 2001 - THE COPY SHOP  
VICTOFIY TKTS  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS  hour. For more infonnation or  Jamaica, Cancun, Barbados,  LaFortune Student Center  I might be better at CS ... no, I  
suv·sELL·TRADE  http://mmmrenlals.homepage.c  to schedule an appointment,  More. Hiring Campus Reps ­ Phone 631-COPY  won't be better.  
ND FOOTBALL  om/  please call Eric Covey at 631­ 2 Free Trips! Free Meals-Book  
232-0964  email:mmmrentals@aol.com  4732 or Or. Steven Boker at  by 11/3. Call 1-800-426-7710  Kate, you'd better choose wise•  I'm going to bed early tonight!  
www.victorytickets.com  232-2595  631-4941.  or sunsplashtours.com.  ly.  Whoo-hoo!  

Friday, October 13, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Calendar of Events 
September 25-October 30 103 Hes burgh Library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 (Nov. 3-4, 2000) 
Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Farley, Keough, Howard, Dillon, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla We~t, Sorin 
Wednesday-Thursday, October 18-19 Lindenwood Retreat Center 
Fall Break Spiritual Retreat 
Listening to the ~pirit Within: . A Christian Perspective on Life Choices 
Monday-Tuesday. October 23-24 
11 :30 pm-10:00 pm St. Paul's Chapel. Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, October 24, 7:00 pm 
~adin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, October 24, 7:00 pm 
Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation-Session #3 
Wednesday, October 25, 7:00 pm 
Reckers' Hospitality Room 
Africentric Spirituality: Freshman Intro Mid-Semester Reception 
Wednesday, October 25, 10:00 pm 
Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Twenty-eighth Sunday 
in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, October 14 Mass 5:00p.m. 
Rev. John A. Steele, c.s.d 

Sunday, October 15 Mass 
10:00a.m. 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 

11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, c.s.c. 

Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  ·  Wis 7: 7-11.  
2nd Reading  Heb 4: 12-13.  
Gospel  Mk 10:'17-30.  



The Spirituality of Drivers Ed. 
by Fr. Tom Doyle, c.s.c. 
Elden Humphrey taught Drivers Ed.. Although the class was at an inconve­nient time, the presentations were beyond tedious and we had more homework than geometry class, we were all willing to tolerate the discomfort because we knew the prize that awaited. I worked through the class with some arrogance because I'd been driving tractors and pickups for local farmers for some years. Emergency braking and correcting the vehicle from a full slide were second nature given my vast experience on gravel roads. Little did I know that Mr. Humphrey would give me some of the best driving and most relational advice of my life. 
''Keep your eyes high," he would say in his squeaky voice. Whether we were driving down ~fain Street or the highway, he repeated "keep your eyes high" like a mantra. It worked! With eyes raised to the horizon, I naturally stayed in my own lane of traffic. The vehicle was no longer a pinball ricocheting between the stripes. My nervous, quick corrections of the wheel were no more. 
I've noticed, and it happens every year about this time, that peoples' eyes have dropped. As we pass about campus between classes, meetings, rehearsals, prac­tices, meals and appointments the friendly, eager eye contacts that characterized our August have given to the anxious fallen eyes of October. The excitement of connecting with that friend or stranger al~ng the way has been overcome by some­thing that draws our heads and eyes downward. And, ifhistory repeats itself, this trend will last beyond our temporary mid-semester fatigue through the remainder of the year. Why is it that 
Real relationships are not like
when passing another person the 
our Hollywood uersions where
concrete sidewalk becomes the pre­
beautiful people moue from eye
ferred place for our eyes? 
contact, to cleuer uerbal
While there are certainly many 
exchanges and then to bed.
explanations, I'd like to throw out a 
hypothesis that it has to do with 
intimacy. As human beings we are wired to desire intimate relationship with 
others and God. Intimacy is not merely physical closeness, but it requires emotional 
and spiritual connections as well. To know 
and be known is a beautiful thing; but it's not 



an easy thing. 

Maybe your eyes have fallen because you're a little gun-shy. Your initial over­tures toward someone you found attractive were not reciprocated and you have withdrawn like a turtle into its shell. It could be something as benign as getting "shot down" calling a girl from the Dog Book or as predictable as hearing him say the words, "I have a girlfriend back home." Perhaps you tried taking a short-cut to intimacy that turned into a dead end through a "hook-up"; now the chance of meeting his eyes somwhere on the quad causes pain or embarrassment. Maybe she doesn't look up because she can feel that your eyes are looking at every part ofher body except her eyes. Maybe he's heard too many crude comments loaded with sexual innuendo. Maybe you're afraid that he'll take a smile the wrong way and start pursuing you. 
If it's friendship and intimacy you desire, don't give up, look up. Real relation­ships are not like our Hollywood versions where beautiful people move from eye contact, to clever verbal exchanges and then to bed. Intimate relationships begin with friendship, respect, careful listening and they are sustained by patience, fi­delity and prayer. Keeping one's eyes high in relationships means looking toward what you most hope for the other in the next ten years, not the next ten minutes. Viewing relationships on the horizon will also allow Christ to be included in the landscape. 
So, remember what Mr. Humphrey always said, "Keep your eyes high." It will do more for you than prevent collisions and keep you our ofthe mud troughs along the sidewalk. With your eyes on the horizon, you can focus on true intimacy with others and steer toward your desired destination. 
-
-
' 
• 
l l 
-j 
.. 
0f'0PUS 
fv11NISTRY 

j .
' 


Friday, October 13, 2000 

Hoc:KEY 
lrjish set to take on --Nfo. 4 ranked Eagles 
By M'\'IT ORENCHUK 
Spom 1X'riccr 
The road doesn't get any easier 
this weekend. as the Notre Dame 
mcn'i, hockey team travels to 
Omaha to participate in the 
Maverick Stampede Tournament. 
The lrL,;h will face their second ranked opponent in two weeks when Lhcy face off against the Boston College Eagles tonight. Boston Collegll is ranked fourth in the National Il01.:key poll. Last weekend Notre Dame faced the 11th-mnked Minnesota Golden Goph<:rs. 
The Maverick Stampede tour­nament features Boston College, Notre Dame, Nebraska-Omaha and r-.iagara. Boston College and Niaghra both made the NCAA tournament last season. Nebrnska-Omaha barely missed the tournament after making it to the o::IIA finals in Detroit. After Notrn lJame and BC finish their game tonight. Nebraska-Omaha and J'\liagara will face each other. Then,the winners and losers will play each other on Saturday evening. 
Th£, Irish enter this weekend's gam(l looking to bounce back from a dismal performance in Minn,1sota. Notre Dame was jit­tery last weekend, and play was unini;pired for the most part. Goalin Tony Zasowski was pulled after the second period after giv­ing up five goals. Zasowski 
Exp1~ctant mother of !wins wilh one y,~ar old child seeks child care assistance in Granger Good Salary, Monday-Friday Call Jasmin 277-5106 
wasn't the only problem. 
The Irish defensemen are for the most part inexperienced, and it showed in Minnesota. as the Irish were out.shot 31-15 in the game. Notre Dame only scored one meaningful goal in the sec­ond period to cut the lead Gopher lead to 3-1. The other two Irish goals came late in the third with Minnesota already having the game well in hand. 
Boston College comes into tonight's contest with a No. 4 ranking nationally,and a solid nucleus with a lot of experience. llnder the watchful eye of coach Jerry York. Boston College has been one of the dominant teams of NCAA hockey. They are returning 16 lettermen from a team that has made three con­secutive NCM Frozen Four's. The Frozen Four is hockey's equivalent of the Final Four in basketball. Roston College has the ex.perience to make a serious run at the National Championship. 

ROWING 
Irish ready to row past Spartans 
The rowing conditions for 
By JEH' BALTRUZAK 
Saturday are stacked against the Sports Writer 
Irish, as the race will be held at Michigan State's home course 
The Irish rowing teams travel on the Grand River. The to East I,ansing Saturday to take Spartans have better knowledge on Michigan State and Calvin of the river's curves and bends, College. Notre Dame is looking which is especially critical for a to build on an outstanding per­three-mile head race. formance in last weekend's "They really have the home-
Head of the Rock  water  
race, and will com­pete in both the  "If[the competition]  advan­tage."  
varsity and novice  hasn't respected us in the  s  a  i  d  
competitions. Coming off such a strong effort, head  past, they will start to this year. "  Stone. As for the race  
coach Martin Stone  lineups,  
has specific expec­ Becky Luckett  St o n e  

tations for his row­
ers. 

"We need to be within 2 percent of Michigan State's time," he said. "Last year, we gained on them in the spring season, but they're going to be a great team." 
Notre Dame has a definite challenge against Michigan State. The Spartans are an elite team in the Midwest, and last year they finished in the top 10 in the nation. 
doesn't
sophomore 
forsee 
a n y 
changes 
in the first varsity open eight boat that took third in the I-lead of the Rock, though the second open eight will experience some shake-ups. The lightweight row­ers, who performed impressively last weekend against Wisconsin and Iowa, will not race this weekend. 
As an up-and-coming pro­
gram. Notre Dame must battle for respect each time it com­petes. 
"If [the competition) hasn't respected us in the past. they will start to this year," said sophomore Becky Luckett. "We've had three years to build this program, and I think this is the year we really take off." 
"We have gained the respect of a team like Tulsa or Indiana, Stone said. "To get the respect of someone like Wisconsin. we'll have to flat out beat them." 
In practke. the team has been focusing on improving faster than the competition. 
"We've been practicing with different line-ups, so that we're all nailing the same strokes," said Luckett. 
The novice program for first year rowers has been living up to Sterne's high expectations. 
"We'll always have great novkes," he said. "If you're a novice at Notre Dame, you can go out there and row with any novice crew in the country." 
"We're doing a great job," Stone continuud. "We're making great strides." 

-
Cd~efo~~ 
he Marketplace! 
Houses for Rent 1 BR HOMES 1210 Cedar SI. $390/Mtlt 2 BR HOMES 1337 Fremont $550 /Mth 529 Ch!ca&o 5550/Mth 1BR APTS -MISHWAKA 314 Wells-$100/Wk. 1-800-328-7368 

A Division ofCu\vcr Development 
Attention Students: Looking for Flexible Days & Hours? 
We are looking for people with good communication skills to offer products & services on Jc,ehalf ofmajor insw-ailce & credit card companies. No experience necessary!_ 
We offer the following: ~'$7.50-$10.00/Hour 
•'Flexible 
Schedules ''Evening and Day shifts 

•~Paid 
VacatiuliSi'HuHdliy~ 

•10ptionai 
Saturdays ••Incentives/Raises '~Supervisory & Management 


opportunities 
1 (888) 801-JOBS 

Just 35 minutes from campus! EOE 

Find everything you need to know about grad school at www.petersons.com/campus 
iii:11:iiSui\iS.COM  
THOMSON LEARNING  ONLINEANO INPRINT  AV  
AOL Keyword: Peterson's  

YOU'RE SMART. YOU'RE CENTERED. 
AND YOU HAVEN'T GOT ACLUE. 
Gathering information for grad school can be absolutely mind-boggling. At Petersons.com, you'll find detailed information on programs, student 
loan information, online practice tests and online applications. Go to Petersons.com. And un-boggle that brilliant mind of yours. 

page 15 

Friday, Ocrober 13, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
UN!VERSlrYOF
NOTRE DAME 
£'ofuttoh~ 
C6d6P Presents ...... . 

Office o[ Information Technologies 
350-, 400-, 450-or 500MHz PowerPC G3 processor 7GB, 10GB, 20GB or 30GB Ultra ATA hard disk drive ATI RAGE 128 Pro graphics accelerator integrated Odyssey audio system by Harman Kardon and much more ........... From $965 (3 Year warranty) 
Four friendly models. Five luscious colors. 


Impressive performance 366 or 466MHz PowerPC G3 processor 10-gigabyte Ultra ATA hard disk drive 
Presenting the new iBook. 
The iMac to go now gives you 1novies to go. 
Brilliant, high-resolution TFT active-matrix display Up to 6 hours of battery life per charge 
Preinstalled iMovie software for professional-looking productions ...... From $1711 (3 Year warranty) 


Power Mac G4 Cube. 
The new Powerbook.
So much technology. So little space. 
Power PC G3 processors for up to 500 Mhz of great performance 450MHz PowerPC G4 processor with Velocity Engine 10GB or 20GB Ultra ATA/66 hard disk drive AT! RAGE 128 Pro graphics card with 16MB of graphics memory ATI RAGE Mobility 128 video controller with AGP 2X 
64MB ofhigh-performance memory 14.1-inch (diagonal)TFT XGA active-matrix display Small footprint for convenient desktop use Hot-swappable expansion bay ...... From $2340 (3 Year warranty) 20GB Ultra ATA/66 hard disk drive All-digital speaker system with Harman Kardon audio technology From $1982 (3 Year warranty, less monitor & floppy disk drive) 

The dual processor Mac G4.
¦ 

'l\vice the Pentium-crushing power. Twice the envelope-pushing fun. 
Up to two 500MHz Power PC G4 processors, and 64MB, 128MB or 256MB of PCl00 SD RAM 20GB 5400-rpm UltraATA/66, 30GB 7200-rpm UltraATA/66, 40GB 7200-rpm UltraATA/66 Four expansion slots, including three 64-bit PCI slots and one dedicated AGP 2X graphics card slot DVD-ROM drive for playing DVD video, or DVD-RAM drive for storing up to 9.4GB per disc 
"Instant access" side door that makes upgrade easy ...... From $2547 (3 Year warranty, less monitor & floppy disk drive) 

'\ Displays too .... and don't forget .... 
\ 17" Studio display $465 \ 15" flat panel display $930 22" Apple Cinema display $4120 
Appl,~~~X~
1 year warranty when purchased separately 
*included on CPUs mentioned above 
-· 3 year warranty when purchased with an Apple CPU including 3 year AppleCare. 



P~ NOTRE DAME 
.._.. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

Room 112 CCMB Hours: 8-5 Monday-Friday 
Now offering 9. 9%APR(Annual Percentage Rate) financing 

Web site: www.nd.edu/ ,.,solution Email: solution@nd.edu 
to faculty and staff for "personal technology purchases" from 

Phone: 631-7477 Fax: 631-3880 
the Solutions Center(not for departments). 

Your On-Campus Technology Store! 
-·-----------------------------------------------­

page 16 The Observer. SPORTS Friday, October 13, 2000 MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
WOMEN'S GOLF 

Sctrin victory keeps Siegfried out 
Belles to finish season 

By ELIZABETH HOEN and 
..... ANTHONY BISHOP 
Sports 'X'riters 
Siegfried flail's playoff hopes were devastated last night in a 14-7 loss to undefeated Sorin Ilall. 
Thl' Hamblers came out "pret­ty dead," as captain and run­ning back Travis Smith put it. 
Th(•y camp alivP in the second half to end the shut out. Their attempts were not enough. how­ever, for the tough Otter squad, who improved their record to 3­
0-1. 
Sorin's Trevor Morris, a senit•r, started off the scoring with a touchdown early in the lirst half. 
"It was a tuam effort." Morris :mid. 
The Otters pl11.yed without several members of their squad, including sflnior John Taggart, who was suffering f'rom a con­cussion. 
"01Jr toam rnally came togeth­er tc,night. We just didn't give up," Morris said. 
The Otters completed their scoring in the end of the lirsL half with quarterback Luke Heunrlein's pass to sophomore GreJ: Carney. The pair was a strong offensive force for Sorin lhroJghout the game. 
Sitlgfricd responded in the second half by coming out !ired up. With six minutes to go. they scored their first and only touchdown when quarterback Hob Plumby connected with freshman Mike Wahl. The tough Sor .n defense, which has allowed only seven points all seamm, held Siegfried for the rest of the game. 
The loss oflicially denied the Hamblen, a spot in the postsea­son The team finished with a record of 1-2-1. 
"We really picked it up in the second half, and we played pretty well," Smith said. 
Knc,tt 22, St. Ed's 0 
Knott took on St. Ed's in both teams' last regular season game. 
The game held no real playoff ramifications for both teams, but for very different reasons. 
St. Ed's, who entered the con­test with an 0-3 record had already been eliminated from the playoffs and the 3-0 Knott had secured a spot. 
The first half was a penalty­lad en defensive struggle. Neither team scored until near the end of the half, when a des­peration throw to receiver Brian Palowski gave Knott the ball inside the St. Ed's 20. 
On the next play, Knott went back to Palowski for an 18-yard touchdown. Without goal posts, Knott was forced to go for the two point conversion. Knott eas­ily converted to make it 8-0. 
After the first half, Knott Hall never looked back. Getting great speed from their backs on offense and powerful hits by their defense. Knott dominated both sides of the ball. 
"If you make it past the defen­sive line, you're only halfway," Knott kicker Kevin Hefferman said. "Then you have to get past the linebackers." 
Early in the third quarter, Knott scored again after a quick screen pass and converted to make it 16-0. 
On the ensuing offensive drive for St. Ed's, Knott's defense proved its power. 
Defensive back Ben Gilfillan stepped in front of a slow pass 

at MIAA tournament 
Ed's coach Kevin Huie. 
Pekarnk fcnls the team has grown throughout this season. 
"We came into the season with a young team. but there was a lot of talent," she said. "I'd like to say we've made a threat in tho MIM. We gained a lot of experience." 
Pekarek expects her s<rniors to lead the team this week­end. 
"I look to senior captain Kyle Veltri and senior Natalie Cook to lead the way," said Pekarek. "l would like for us to linish in second place over­all." 
In the MIAA conference, Albion College currm1tly holds first place, followed by llopc College. 

and ran 40 yards for a touch­
down. but f'a·i!ed on the 2-point conversion for a score of 22-0. 
The fourth quarter seemp,d more like a slow motion game of hard hits by both team as the ball bounced between halls near the 50-yard line. Neither team gave much ground, but Knott didn't need it. 
Knott will go into the playoffs at either number one or two seed. 
"We played with a lot of. enthusiasm and I know we'll be ready in the playoffs," Virtue said. 
St. Ed's looks to next season for more wins. 
"We are a young team. We played hard and guys played hurt. IKnott'sJ a good team and they played harder," said St. 
By KATIE MILLER 
Sports \Xlrirer 

The Saint Mary's golf team will conclude its season in the MIAA conference tournament at Olivei College Saturday. 
The Belles are currently in third place in the MIAA con­ference following Monday·s tournament at Calvin College. 
The Belles hope to use this final tournament to boost them into second place. 
"We hope to beat llope: this is a reachable goal and would put us in second place," said coach Theresa Pekarek. "We'd like to break our record low of 350." 



Friday, October I3, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

·.. 
,..;.,;•

ER. 
. . ., _,, 
Runners 
continued from page 20 
vidual champion Luke Watson. Piane has high expectations for Watson. No. 2 runner Marc Striowski and No. 3 runner Pat Conway. 
"Luke has to run up front," Piane said. "Striowski and Conway have to run togeth­er. They don't have to run up front, but they have to run pretty well." 
But it will be the fourth through seventh runners who determine the fate of the Irish. 
"How we do will depend on what our four, five, six and seven men do," Piane said. "They just need to run as competitively as they did last Friday." 
The women are focused on knocking off schools that fin­
ished ahead of them at the Notre Dame Invitational such as Duke and Northwestern, as well as schools that rank near the Irish nationally. · 
"We have to do a whole lot better job of racing togeth­er," Connelly said. "If you look at the results from last week. we were really spread out." 
The Irish should benefit from the longer race dis­tance. In the early season, men's courses were 8,000 meters and women's were 5,000 meters. As of this week, the distance jumps to 10,000 meters and 6,000 meters. 
"It helps because we don't have a whole lot of milers. We have more distance run­ners," Connelly said. "I think the extra distance and the fact that it's a tough course actually benefits us." 
received good news when it was announced that freshman

Soccer 
Amy Warner's knee injury is not as serious as some first

continued from page 20 
feared. Warner has been 

might allow them to play with the kind of wreckless abandon that often keys an upset. 
"They're certainly confident enough," Waldrum said. "They believe they can win." 
After away games at Syracuse and Yale, the Irish will travel to Stoors. Conn. to take on the 18th-ranked Huskies, the Northeast division champions. While this game will be a huge one for both teams, Waldrum has not been able to even address the Huskies with the Eagles loom­ing tonight. 
After starting slow, the Huskies have been surging in the last few weeks returning to the nation's elite class of pro­grams. 
On the injury front, the Irish rehabbing the knee, running and doing some recovery train: ing, and has felt little to no pain. She is expected back for the playoffs. 
"We think we'll have her back," said Waldrum. "We're probably being overly cautious since she's so young and has her three years to go." 
Ahvays on the lookout for a silver lining in the dark clouds of injury, Waldrum sees some positives in the absences of Warner and Lindsev. 
"The injuries have given us a chance to look at some other players and get them some important time," said Waldrum. " Being able to rotate players is important for depth. I think our top 15 players are all comfort­able playing with each other." 


Jrt0rlRJE D~IE 
A~)'{JF?JfMJE~S 
-Under,ipg 
-4 Blocks 
-2nd Sem 

"The Best Value<trt 
@!
@l 
~
~ 
~\ f..ssoc: .

ta.~ 
i
i 

CENlER FOR 
SOCIAL 
• f-~~­
-0 
i
<C .::,
I 

CONCERNS 

I
I 
;~

Thinking about how to spend next summer?
I 

Want to gain valuable experience?
~ 
~
I 

THE 
~ 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT 
I ~ 

IS YOUR ANSWER!
I 

• SPEND 8 WEEKS PROMOTING SOCIAL JUSTICE TIJR0UGH DIRECT SERVICE 
~
i 

• CHOOSE FROM OVER 120 SITES ACROSS THE NATION 
~
i 

• EARN 3 THEOLOGY CREDITS (WITH POSSIBLE CROSSUSTS) 
~

• 
RECEIVE A $1900 11JITION SCHOLARSHIP FOR THE FALL 2001 SEMESTER

• 
MAKE VALUABLE CONTACTS WITH ND ALUMNI 


i 
~
~ 
~
~ 

THINK ABOUT IT..• 
~
~ 
~
~ 

~ 
• INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
i 

Tur.SDAY, OCTOBER 24 AT 6:00 PM 
i
iI 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8 AT 7:00 PM 
I 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30 AT 7:00 PM 
~
~ 
~

~·~ ~ 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish win; streak hits _... five games 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame volleyball topped Illinois State (15-5, 15-11, 15-11) for its fifth­straight win to up its record to 13-5 on the season. 
Junior Kristy Kreher led the No. 20 Irish with 17 kills and 16 digs while adding seven assists. Marcie Bomhack totaled 14 kills and seven digs. 
"We went in there thinking that it would be a long match. We have a pretty big history with Illinois State. Our matches usually go five games," said senior co-cap­tain Denise Boylan. 
The Irish combined for six aces in game one, two a piece from Kreher, senior Christi Girton and sopho­more Keara Coughlin. Boylan added 14 assists in game one to aid Notre Dame. 
"I think we did a really good job of starting off strong," said Boylan. "But in the second game we started off slow and we had to come from behind. With the better teams we're not going to be able to do that." 
In game two action the Redbirds racked up a 6-2. lead before Notre Dame struck back to steal the 13-8 lead and eventually the win with the aid of Kreher and Girton who racked up 13 kills. 
"After falling behind in the second game and coming back for a win, it was good we were able to come out strong in the third game and end the match," Boylan said. 
With a 10-4 lead in game three, the Irish weakened as Illinois State narrowed the gap to 13-11 before Notre Dame shutdown the Redbirds for the match. 
"I think that we're going to have a great match against Michigan on Wednesday," Boylan said. "We're looking forward to coming out and having a good second half of the season." 
Notre Dame will look to remain undefeated on the road with its eighth victory 
away  from  the  Joyce  on  
Wednesday  as  it  faces  
Michigan.  


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 13, 2000 
====================================================================================================-====
-
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Belles prepare for 3 crucial grunes against conference foes 
posts a 1.99 G!\A this season

By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
after allowing 28 goals in over 

Spor:s Wrir~r 
one thousand minutes. Jeriny PPrrin leads Adrian offensively 

The Saint ~ary's soccer with 5 goals and 1 assist. The team has three chances to Bulldogs are coached by third­improve both its record and its year head coach Rick M 1/\A run king during !'al I Guitierrez. 
break with games against In the final game during fall 
Ahr.a, Adrian and Calvin. break, the Belles travel to 
"After some tough defeats meet the Calvin Knights. we are ready to get back to Earlier this season the Belles wirning," junior tri-captain fell prey to the Knights 3-1, Katy Robinson said. the only Belles' goal coming 
S :iint Mary's faces Alma from a penalty kick by Artnak Saturday in an away match. early in the second half. Belles Th11 Belles sent the Hulldogs freshman notminder Laura home with a 2-0 shut-out to Metzger shared ttme with oprn the season. starting goalie Tia Kapphahn. 
Stephanie Artnak took first Kapphahn finished with 13 blood for the Belles, scoring saves. on her first-ever penalty kick The Knights are coached by to notch her first collegiate Deb Bakker and sit in fourth g1wL Artnak W('nt on to score place with a 5-4-0 MIA/\ reo­tw•J more cord and are goals this 6-7 overall. 
CHRlSTINE KAIVThe Observer 

season on '~4fter some tough Junior Tricia 
Junior Adrian Kirby fires a corner kick towards the goal during a game earlier this season. Saint
pnnalty kicks Dvk leads the
defeats. we are ready to Mary's has three critical conference games against Alma, Adrian and Calvin next week.
and is on a scoring with
get back to winning."

rol! after lak­six goals and an extra bone irritating her i n!: her first two assists on Achilles, and Priganc with a rf•gu!ar Katy Robinson the. season. back injury. rreshman Emily aclion goal in while sopho­Erchick also may be forced to
Belles' tri-captain

tho loss more goalie sit out for a few games against Olivet Leah Vander because of a concussion and a 
-on Tuesday. Ploeg }las dislocated shoulder. "I'm excited only allowed Despite the !llJ uries, now that I scored a real goal," 16 goals to post a 2.29 GAA Hochstetler was conf'ident that Artnak said. "llopefully, we and three shutouts. the Belles would continue w<,n't have to rely on penalty The Belles, who have strug­their dominant play into the kicks. But ii' we have to relv on gled with injuries all season, three games over fall break. penalty kicks. l hope they go will again be without tri-cap­"We should have everybody in." tain Jessica Klink for at least who played this la.st game," 
Artnak shoulders the scoring the games against Alma and Hochstetler said. "Even with 
load with last year's freshman Adrian. Alissa Brasseur and all the injuries we had we still scJring lnader, !leather Muth. now Kristen Priganc are out came out and played very M·Jth, now a sophomore and for the season, Brasseur with well." 

co-captain. also scored against Alma to put the Belles up by two and take the win. 
tlowcver, both players are confident in their team's abili­ty to contribute to the scoring pool. 
"We've been working a lot 011 our shooting and we have improved," Artnak said. "llopcfully we can rely on shooting and scoring Ito get the win.I" 
Alma is coached by Chi Ly, and will enter Saturday's game looking LO avenge l'our­s1 raight losses after dropping games against Kalamazoo, Calvin and Albion. Alma is led by freshman Megan Karchon. who has started all 12 of the Scots' games this season and has three goals and two assists. 
Goalie Paula Schwarz is a veteran in the net, and sports a 2.83 (;M this season. Alma i:; ranknd just beneath Saint ~tary's, seventh in the MIA!\ with a 1-7-1 MIM record and i:, 3-8-1 overall. 
"l thought we played well !against Olivnt!," Belles assis­tant coach Jared llochstetler mid. "We were just unfortu­nate that one individual stepped up and took control of' the game. That kind of game !(ives all our players confi­dence that they can go in and :;core." 
The Belles face the Adrian Bulldogs in a home match on Jct. 18. The Btilles defeated the Bulldogs in overtime earli­
-
er in this season. For the sec­r>nd year in a row. the winning goal was scored by Muth, only this year Saint Mary's didn't have to wait until the last minute of the second overtime to achieve the win. 
The Bulldogs have a 3-10 record overall. However, they are 0-7 and in last place in the MIAA, despite spectacular performances by sophomore goalie Sarah Moulik. Moulik 
Here's Good News For You! 
Turtle Creek APartments 
Is Now Tak1n1 Appljca~ions For The 2001 ·2002 School Year! Stop By The Leasina Office Today to Pick UpYour
Informational Packet! 
Turtle Creek Apartments 
"The Students' First Choice In Off Campus llonsing" 1716 Turtle Creek Drive Phone:272-8124 M-F 9am -6pm Sat 10am -5pm "Located just east or the Notre Dame soccer field" 

Friday, October 13, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
-

TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 


Fox TROT 
RELAX. I'LL THE LAST TtME YOU BRING M'f t>1D THIS1 YOU WERE CELL PHONE. THREE. t-loURS LATE I 
FOR DINNER. 

CROSSWORD 

BILL AMEND 
ACROSS 
1 Reviewed 10 Colorful squawker 15 Where the 
Wildcats play 16 Building material 17 Like some 
immunological agents 18 Join securely 19 Pour 
20 Cordwood measure 
22 He was well­preserved 
23 1941 Oscar­winner Crisp 
26 Oil source 
27 First N.L.'er to hit 500 homers 
28 Late risers 
OEN1SE AND I THoUC,HT WE'D Go FoR A WALi< DOWN BY iHE\,____ RESERVOIR. _ 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
WHERE 
ARE 
50 Invoice amount 
51 Cause of some stomachaches 
54 It may be skipped 
55 Napoleons' relatives 
57 Alienates 60 At attention 61 Protect from 

bugs 62 Wave catcher? 63 It helps you 
take off the top 
DOWN 
1 Place for a ribbon 
2 Total 
3 Author Sinclair 
4 Painful piercing 
5 Hardly a nymph 
6" he drove 
out of sight ... " 7 Wolves' 
creations 25 Opus _ (work 
8 Graduation of God) mark 29 Protection from bugs
9 Bellwether 30 Swindle
10 Reading buddies? 32 More than want 
11 Cooler cooler 33 Half a noted comedy duo 
12 Like some seats 34 Played tag, e.g.
13 One-eighty 35 Mixer
14 Retired 38 Striking sound 
(on) 40 Of the flock 24 Favor one side? 41 Frank's third 

I WONDERED WHY YOU l<EEP YOUR PHoNE PERPETUALLY UNCHARC,E.O.
, 
0 
15  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  
17  
19  
23  


43 Misinforms 52 Isabel Allende's 47 Buffalo Bill, e.g. "Eva " 53 Smooth
48 Avalanche 56 Big inits. in
49 Nicholas who cable 
wrote "The Seven-Per-Cent 
58 Kind of mil. club Solution" 59 Eat 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420-5656 (95ct per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

Gus5tA1ion 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON nns 
DAY: Margaret Thatcher, Marie Osmond, Yves Montand, Kelly Pre­ston, Jerry Rice 
Happy Birthday: You'll know exactly what's required to make things happen and will push tremen­dously to bring the results you've been working toward. You will make a difference if you speak up about your concerns. Your vision is clear. Don't question your direction or your plans; just do it. Your numbers: 6, 17, 22, 24, 33, 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Make plans to do something special with the one you.love. Don't draw attention to yourself at work. You may get yourself into an overtime predicament that won't go over well athome.000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may overreact to situations at work. Don't make a fuss; be professional. Romantic relationships with co­workers will be enticing but poten­tially dangerous. 000 
GEMINI (May n-June 20): Social opportunities will bring you into contact with those who can help you get ahead. Your intellectual versatili­ty will capture the interest of influen­tial individuals. Present your ideas with enthusiasm, and the results will be phenomenal. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may want to get a new pet for com­panionship. Changes at li.ome will be difficult to adjust to but fortunate in the long run. Moves will tum out to be favorable. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You need mental stimulation. Your ability to tell colorful stories will be popular with those who don't know you that well and cause discord with those 
EUGENIA LAST 
whodo.0000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Finances and children will cause anxiety and headaches. Try to do something that doesn't cost much, but that will give you an outlet. You need some alternatives in your daily routine. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Changes at home may be upsetting your relationship. Try to be under­standing and take the time to find out what the problem is. Compro­mise should make the situation 
better.000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Mat­
ters pertaining to work will be favor­able. It is best to go for a raise or an interview that could lead to a higher wage. You should talk to your boss aboutyourideas.0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will lose if you decide to get involved in some form of gambling. Don't spend more than you had planned, or financial stress will affect your personal relationship. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You can expect tension on the home front. You will have to keep the peace by pulling your own weight. Don't take advantage of your mate. 
00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Female friends will not necessarily be completely honest with you. Don't go telling your secrets unless you don't care if others spread the information around. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Money will slip through your fin-. gers. You will have a tendency to be too generous with children and friends. Escapist tendencies will be costly as well. 000 

Birthday Baby: You are a little powerhouse, detennined to have things your way and curious enough to try just about anything. Your relentless courage will create worry when you are young and respect when you become old. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
10 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
31 Mysterious visitor 
32 Like some decisions 
35 Interest, slangily 36 Free from limits 
37 Great leveler 
38 Allotment 
39 Like some decisions 
40 On the same page, so to speak 
42 Pro 
43 Ready to deliver? 
44 Abbr. on a gauge 
45 Follower of "Rocky'' or "Superman" 
46 Unfair hiring 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

woul 


-



Restless warriors 

The Belles' women's soccer-
team plays three critical conference matches while 
the rest ofthe Notre Dame ­
Saint Mary's community is 
enjoying fall break

PORTS 
page 18 

O
THE page 20 BSERVER 
----:_-_-_-_:::.==--================================================================================================ 

LIZ LANG/The Observer Sophomore forward Ali Lovelace dribbles around a Seton Hall defender during a game earlier this season. The Irish look to maintain their unbeaten record through a grueling four game stretch. 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish teams ready to impress selection committees 
N y 

Freshman Megan Johnson sprints to the finish line during last 
-
weekend's Notre Dame Invitational. 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish have their chance to make a case for why they should qualify for nationals Saturday in the Pre-National Championships in Ames. Iowa. 
If the men's and women's cross country teams can beat several teams that will make into nationals, it should impress selection commit­tees. 
"We want to beat some teams that can automatically qualify out of their varsity districts," men's coach Joe Piane said. "That will help us if we need help qualifying for nationals." 
Last year, the men's squad didn't need the help. It earned an automatic berth for the championships thanks to second-place finish at regionals. After its third place finish at last week's Notre Dame Invitational, Notre Dame looks poised for another automatic spot. 
The women. on the other hand. squeaked into the national meet despite sub-par performances at both pre­nationals and regionals. They're looking to avoid being on such shaky ground this year. 
"Last year, we didn't run well at that pre-national meet at all," women's coach 
Tim Connelly said. "We fin­ished 22nd, and we still beat people. Realistically, we'd certainly like to be in the top 15 to 20. If we can do that, we'll beat some people that will end up being regional qualifiers." 
Both the men and women will be pushed to the limit by opposing squads. Sixty of the nation's strongest cross coun­try programs are participat­ing in the meet. 
"There isn't another meet in this country where you're going to see this level of com­petition." Connelly said. 
The men looked strong in last week's meet, led by indi­
see RUNNERS/page 17 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
The Stretch Run 
1bp-ranked Irish kick off -grueling four-game 'break' against Eagles 
By KE\'IN BERCHOU Sport< W ·ircr 
Whill! the rest or the Notre Dame :;tudent body is relaxing over the next week and catching up on Olwded rest. the No. 1­rnnked women's soccer team will be cnc.uring perhaps its most g r u t, l i n g stretch of' thti 
"/ think potentially

season. The Irish will they're as tough as any play four 
team we ·ve played at 

games in a 
home this year. " 

span of eight days, three against Big Randy Walker East opponents 
Irish head coach

looking to knock them out ofNo. I. 
In what might well be the toughest of the four tests, the Golden Eagles of Boston College fly into Alumni Field tonight for Notre Dame's only home game of the week. 
The Golden Eagles have been soaring of late as their 11-4 over­all record has already secured a postseason berth in the confer­ence championships. 
"It's going to be a very tough game " Irish head coach Randy Waldrum said. "I think potential­ly they're a tough as any team we've played at home this year." 
Although Boston College is unranked, the Eagles have shown the ability to upset by taking 18th-ranked Connecticut to over­time before falling 1-0. If the Eagles are to make a second con­secutive appearance in the NCAA Tournament. they'll need a big win over a top team. Tonight's game against the Irish gives them that chance. 
"They know they really need to 
her solid play will allow the Eagles' offense to attack an Irish defense that will be depleted by the loss of senior co-captain Kelly Lindsey who is out with a strained Mc;L ligament. · 
Most teams in the Big East have played conservatively against the Irish keeping as many as six defenders close to the goal in order to make the game close. Since Schaeffer's talents provide an insurance policy between the posts, Waldrum feels the Eagles will do everything it needs neces­sary to win. 
"I don't think they'll lay back," he said. ''I'd expect them to come out and play." 
beat a good team to get in," Waldrum said. "I think they'll come out and go after us." · 
Boston College boasts a strong goal­keeper in senior Courtney Schaeffer and 

To combat the Boston College attack and compensate for the loss of Lindsey, Waldrum will insert sophomore Nancy Mikacenic into tlre defensive backfield. 
"I don't see much of a drop off," Waldrum said. "Nancy has been playing some really good soccer lately. She can hold down the fort." 
Boston College will have the edge when it comes down to intangibles against 13-0-0 Notre Dame, who with a win will be off to best start in school history. The Eagles have everything to gain and nothing to lose. They aren't expected to win and that 
see SOCCER/page 17 

vs. Calvin ~-vs. Navy vs. Sc. John's Rowing
SPORTS /~
Today, 6:30 p.m. Saturday, 11 a.m. Saturday, 7:30 p.m. vs. Michigan State Saturday
ATA 

S¥ 
Women's golfI " " •• Cross country
" 
vs. Boston College at Alma • Notre Dame Invitational Pre-National Meet Friday, 7:30 p.m. Saturday, noon
~GLANCE Saturday 
Saturday 



----..-­

page: 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 13, 2000 


Voted •BEST DELIVERED PIZZA" 
• 2000 Best of Michiana 
GAME DAY SPECIAL
r------, r ------,
I 1 Large, 1 Topping I I I Larg•. I Topping I 

Papa Predicts:
I $8.99 OR I I Breadsticki I I 2 Large, 2 Topping I I I
2 Liter 
$12. 99 
L ______.J

L--::.3=--.J NOTRE DAME -31 
Manager's Spec/al Family Special
r ------, r ------, 
NAVY -14
I largs, 2 Topping and 4 1 Lorgs w/Works
I I I I 
Can• ol I La,ge, 2 Topping
I I I I 
Coca-Cola C/0111/c $11.99 or
LI ______.JI IL ______ I
$10. 99 Ext,a Large $20.99 .J 

Notre Dame .Saint Mary's 
271-1177 271-7272
r------, r------,

I Late Night Spec/al I I Grand Papa I I 9pm • ' om I I l Extra Large, I Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 am_,______. I Large One Topping I I 2 Toppings I Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am $7.99 .J L s,o.99 .J Sunday Noon -1 am
L 

"The most popular # on campus• 
~~ame hype 

"1he wishbone offense is a great equalizer. You don 't ever prepare for it and then all ofa sudden you
Greg Mattison 
haoe a u1eek to

defensive coordinator get ready.for it." 
"Our team 
likes playing 
games in diffenmt places. I think the Citrus Bowl is going to be a tremendous aurwsphere. " 

"We'll be ready for anything that they can possibly think oflo come at us. 
<:rerome Sapp strong safety 
"There is not a whole lot we can do about what has happened since 1963. We have lo lake care of business today." 



Irish look for 37th straight win over Navy 
By BRIAN BURKE Spam Writer 
When Notre Dame takes on 
Navy this Saturday in 
Orlando, one of two long los­
ing streaks will finally come lo 
an end. F.ither Notre Dame 
will end its eight-game skid 
away from Notre Dame 
Stadium. or Navy will end its 
36-game losing streak to the 
Irish, which currently stands 
as the longest in the NCAA. 
lfocently Notre Dame has fared be.tter against the Midshipmen on the road, posting convincing wins in 1996 and '98. while squeak­ing by at home in '95, '97 and 
'')9. 
Matt Lovecchio makes his second start at quarterback and should be able to hone his skills in a gamfl situation against a 0-5 Navy squad which ranks 89th nationaHy in total ddense. Head coach Rob Davie sees this match up as an opportunity to address the problems of an offense ranked 109th in the country. 
"We're still in a work in progress on offense," Davie said. "What can we consis­tently do the rest of this sea­son with Matt LoVecchio at quarterbaek or mavbe one of those other youn·g guys at quarterback? What can we l:Onsistcntly do'?" 
The running game could possibly be slowed without left tackle Jordan Black and a less than full speed Julius Jones, but nonetheless should put up big rushing numbers against an overmatched Navy defensive front. Lovecchio likely will be one target down with the absence of Javin Hunter, and will have to con­tend throwing the ball against free safety Chris Lepore, who received some prescason All­America attention. 

The wishbone scheme Navy will employ gives them the best chance to be successful, and in the past has presented problems for Notre Dame. However this year the Irish have the luxury of having played a multiple option offense when they faced the most talented team on their schedule, Nebraska. 
Navv's Brian Broadwater is a cap.able quarterback but certainly no Eric Crouch, and the rest of the offense pales into comparison to the jugger­naut option attack the Irish faced back in September. 
"Obviously it's a big chal­lenge with the wishbone schemes, particularly after all the different offenses we've seen," said Davie. "I mean, we've run the gamut I guess on different schemes. I doubt that anybody in the country has played more of a diverse selection of offenses. Certainly from Nebraska to Purdue to Stanford, all those present unique challenges, now with the wishbone. But I like where we're headed defen­sively." 
The lrish leaned on their defense and special teams in victories against Purdue and Stanford and close losses to Nebraska and Michigan Stain, but this time there should be no excuses for the ommse that goes up against a weaker than normal Navy outfit. Especially in the absence of Hunter, offensive coordinator Kevin Hogers should look to get the ball more to David Givens. The junior flanker caught two touchdown passes and also had an 18-yard run last week against Stanford. 
The Irish make their first appearance in the Citrus Bowl since a 21-16 loss to Florida State in 1994. 


Friday, October 13, 2000 The Observer . COVER STORY page 3 
Legree emerges as leader 
• Fifth-year senior plays best football of career in first games of season 
By KERRY SMITH 


Sporrs Editor 
Legree 

Ask Lance Legree what the pinnacle of his athletic career is position: nose guard and his answer might be sur­year: senior prising. 
awards: 1 995 Associated 

The recent successes the fifth­
Press all-slate selection,

year senior and Irish nose guard 
named to Super Southern

has found on the field inside Notre Dame Stadium coupled 100 by Atlanta Journal­with the vastly improved 2000 Constitution as a senior defensive unit leave him with 
notables: has made 29 tack­

ample plays or games to choose 
les this season, seven more

from. 
than all oflast season

But his answnr will not come from any game fought this year. Or last year. Or even the year before that. 
It will come from a night five the numbers he posts become all 
years ago whm1 Legree was jl!st the more impressive because of a senior iu high school. As his atypical size and stature on def'cnsive captain for his St. the defensive line. Stephen, South Carolina high 
"It's amazing that a person of 

school, Legree led his team to a as well as
his size plays he 

10-0 rncord, culminating in the 
docs," Irish captain and defen­clinching <~f his league's title. sive end Grant Irons said. "It's Years later. after thriving at unbelievable to see the way he the collegiate level, that night moves." may seem like small stuff. But to The results Legree has seen on Legree •it represents perfection. the field are a direct product of That is what he strives for and his determination to peak as a that is why he is not yet satisfied college football player this sea­with his performance in a Notre 
son and his goals for the success Dame uniform. of the Irish program. 
"I have not fulfilled all my From a coaching standpoint.
goals in football yet," Legree 
Legree has the perfect work said. "One of my ultimate goals 
ethic success. 

for the team is to get to a big­"He's durable," Davie said. time howl game. I'm waiting for "He's out there every day prac­
that to happen." ticing. He's a guy that's so low Legree thinks that can happen maintenance that you never this, his last, year for the Irish have to worry about him. He 
and has stepped up his perfor­does everything you ask him to mance on the field to prove it. 
d0." And it has not gone unnoticed. Legree's attitude has also "Ile is playing really well right rubbed offon his fellow players. now," Irish head coach Bob 
"His work ethic is unbeliev­Davie said. "He may have played able," Irons said. "He gives 110 his best game ever against 
percent all the time and espe­Stanford. He made some great 

cially from a fifth-year senior I plays -sniffed out some screen think that speaks volumes about passes on two occasions." him. When I was able to play I 
A leader on the field, Legree did not fully appreciate the work has notched 29 tackles this sea­
ethic he has. Now from the side­son, seven more than his total 22 
lines I am able to watch and wit­tackles over 12 games during ness his intensity not only in the 1999 campaign. Three of every play of every game, but on those tackles have come as a every day on the practice field 
loss of yards for Irish opponents. too." Legree is That inten­fourth on the sity has team in tack­spearheaded
"His work ethic is 

les, behind vet­Notre Dame's 
eran defenders unbelievable. He gives 
3-2 season. Anthony 110 percent all the time Coming off a Denman, Tony 
and especially from a disappointing

Driver, 
5-7 1999
fifth-year senior I think 

Anthony campaign and Weaver and that speaks volumes facing the Rocky Boiman. toughest
about him.,, 

"I've made a 
schedule in lot more plays the nation, than I have in Grant Irons 
the situation the past and defensive end looked bleak have made a for the Irish. 
lot more quick-The alreadydecision calls," Legree said. "But uphill battle that is the 2000 sea­I am not satisfied yet. I still think son became tougher just as it I can play 10 times better than I started with the loss of starting am now. I am just waiting for quarterback Arnaz Battle to a 
that perfect game when every­broken navi.cuJar bone in his left thing is clicking and everything wrist and Irons to a separatedworks right." 
right shoulder. 

At 6-foot-1 and 285 pounds, 
With the proven leaders on 


each side of the ball sidelined, someone needed to step up. Luckily for the Irish, Lance Legree and his defensive unit did. 
"I think we came together really tightly," said Legree. "We worked hard and told ourselves we were going to improve. We are a tight-knit group and we work hard to play together. We knew we needed to step up and have been trying in every game to do that. Everyone feels com­fortable and everyone feels con­fident in what they are doing." 
Legree has been critical to that improvement. 
"Lance Legree is a huge part in the success the defense has found and the turn around it has made this season," Irons said. "He is a key component to the defense. He is one of the leaders on the defense with his attitude and his intensity. He's not only a role model for younger players -I, as a senior, even look to him as a role model. He is a proven leader." 
Legree humbly acknowledges his given role as a leader on the defensive line because of his vet­eran experience. But his leader­ship does not come from his mouth -Legree does his talking on the field. 
"I am not a very vocal person. I can be when I have to be but that's not my style," Legree said. "But every time I step on the field I try to show my effort and enthusiasm. I think that's where my role as a leader on the team comes from." 
Legree hopes that his ability as a defensive lineman and his role as a team leader will translate into even bigger successes in the future. 

When his time in an Irish uni­form runs out at the end of this season, the economics, history and computer applications major hopes to make a name for himself in the NFL. 
"He is starting to draw the attention of pro scouts," Davie said. "He's not the prototypical defensive lineman size-wise, but he is playing very well." 
Because the drive for success has always come naturally to Legree, he is optimistic about his chances. 
"I want to see what football can do for me," Legree said. "I want to go ahead and try to make it in the NFL. You have to take everything with a grain of salt and look at what you're given. I know whatever happens will happen, and it will happen for the best. But I think I can do it." 
birthdate: Dec. 22, 1977 even tempered if he could: his home and family hometown: St. Stephen, S. C. area he would like to improve most top three teams in college
up close & 

major: history, economics, as a player is: endurance football this year : Notre Dame, CAPP greatest personal athletic moment: South Carolina, Clemson 
dimensions: 6-foot-1, 285 lbs. winning regional championship people who have helped him the word to describe him on the field: during senior year ofhigh most at notre O~me: his parents, 
WITH LANCE LEGREE vicious school Mary Ann Spence and Mickey word to describe him off the field: what he would bring to Notre Dame Marotti 
personal 

• 
Friday, October l 3, 2000

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
-~-­

Fighting Irish schedule 
Sep. 2  TEXAS A&M  W  
Sep. 9 .. ····•$Qtfdlr ·Sep1, l0 , UE  ~ W  
~;te""at ~igatt State  L  
Qlli7 ST4NFORD,.,;idl.t . vet.·14-Navy ·  W  
Oct. 21  at West Virginia  
Oct. 28  AIR FORCE  
Nov. 11  BOSTON COLLEGE  
Nov.18 at Rutgers  
Nov. 25 at use  


fourth season at Notre Dame 
career record: 
24-18 
at Notre Dame: 
24-18 
against Navy:3-0 

Roster  
No.  N•me  Pos.  HI.  Wt.  YR  
t  linKk William,  CB  5-10  190  SR  
2  ( '.arlo,-. I>krn·•Antnine JLB  t,..3  242  IR  
2  D,1n Nnvukov  QB  6-l  220  so  
3  1\mi11: Battlt•  QB  6-l  2111  JR  
5  llon braL•I  ss  6-0  208  SR  
h  David Civcns  FL  6-3  217  JR  
7  Carlylt• I luliday  QB  6-2  190  FR  
8  1.on•nzo Crawford  WR  5-11  175  FR  
9  Jan•d Clark  QB  6-4  220  l'R  
10  lvtdtt Lt>Vecchi(}  <..,B  o-3  200  FR  
IO  ~yan Krut~t"f  QB  5-9  178  JR  
II  _~,y Johnson  SE  5-11  195  FR  
12  [\my Fisher  TB  6-2  225  JR  
13  '-lick Sctta  K/P  6-0  175  so  
13  ,()C Recendez  QB/TE  6-0  222  SR  
14  ::;ary Godsey  QB  6-7  240  so  
15  :Ufford /effrrson  CB  5-9  lllO  JR  
16  Abram flam  QB/DB 6-1  190  FR  
17  loey llildbnld  r  5-10  190  so  
Ill  lo,·y Gc•thera II  Fl,  5-7  175  SR  
19  Glenn Earl  ss  6-2  215  so  
20  Gt.•roml' Sapp  FS  6-0  210  FR  
21  J.1Vin I luntcr  SE  b--0  186  JR  
22  Julius Junes  TB  5-10  201  so  
23  Chri~ Yura  Fil  5-11  211  so  
24  Chad U,.B<,11  CB  5-lO  193  so  
25  Tony Driver  FS  6-2  220  SR  
26  Garron lliblc  RB  5-IO  185  FR  
27  Jason &•ck....;.trom  CB  5-10  l!IO  so  
28  Donald DykL-.  ss  5-11  195  JR  
29  Justin Smith  FS  5--11  193  SR  
2'1  Brian Oteniczak  Fl.  5-11  195  SR  
30  Rockv Bniman  OLB  6-4  240  JR  
31  Dv,;aJnt• Francis  CB  (,.{)  195  JR  
32  Terrance-Howard  TB  6-1  195  JR  
33  Courtney Watson  ll.B  6-1  220  so  
34  Vontcz Duff  RB  6-1  175  FR  
.14  Jascint Vukelich  Fil  5-IO  229  SR  
35  David Miller  K  5-11  191  JR  
35  Tim O'Neill  Til  5-5  170  JR  
36  Tnm Lopiem1ki  Fil  6-1  245  JR  
38  Preston Jackson  DB  5-10  172  FR  
38  ErkNc.•L«<m  LB  (,.{)  225  JR  
3Y  Anthony Dt•nman  l!.B  6-2  235  SR  
40  Jason Murray  Fil  6-1  259  SR  
41  M ikc Goolsby  1.8  6-4  225  FR  
42  Shane· Walton  CB  5-11  1113  JR  
43  Anthony Brannan  11.B  5-10  215  SR  
44  Grdnl Irons  DE  6-5  275  SR  
45  Matt Sarb  55  5-11  201  JR  
46  Jeremy Juarez  FB  5-11  251  SR  
47  MjkL"Mt:Nair  I'll  (,.{)  240  JR  
48  Kyle Budinscak  DL  6-5  250  FR  
49  lJcrck Curry  LB  6-4  225  FR  
50  Cedric Hilliard  DT  6-2  290  so  
51  Tyreo I larri:-.on  !LB  6-2  242  JR  
52  Jeff Faine  C  6-3  292  so  
52  Mark Milchc•II  OLB  5-10  220  SR  
53  Jason Halvorson  LB  6-2  230  so  
54  Luigi Rao  11.B  5-10  215  SR  
55  Jjm Jones  0G  f>.2  310  SR  
56  Pat Ryan  ll.B  6-3  2.15  so  
57  Jushn Thomas  OLB  f>.I  245  so  
SR  Joseph Mueller  LB  5-1 I  195  SR  
59  Bri~n Dierckman  ILB  6-1  255  SR  
60  Oarrdl Campbell  DE  6-4  285  so  
61  Mikt• Zelenka  Fil  (,.{)  225  SR  
62  Casey Robin  OT  6-7  305  SR  
63  Brenn,m Curtin  OT  6-8  315  so  
1,4  John Crowther  C  t>-2  24()  JR  
65  Scan Milli11an  0G  6-4  295  so  
no  JW Jordan  C  i>-1  275  SR  
67  Ryan Gillis  0G  i>-3  292  so  
/JI  Mike Candy  0G  6,-4  315  SR  
70  Jim Molinaro  DE  I>{;  265  so  
72  Ryan Scarola  oc  6-5  301  IR  
73  Adam Tibble  K  5-11  201  JR  
75  Kurt Vollers  err  6-7  310  SR  
76  John Teasdale  m  f>-5  305  SR  
n  Gre11 Pauly  OL  (,.6  275  FR  
711  Jordan !llark  OT  (,.6  310  JR  
79  S..-an Mahan  CIT  f>-3  281!  !R  
HO  Omar Jcnkin.s  WK  f>-2  180  FR  
HJ  !emmeCoH1ns  WR  n-4  200  FR  
H2  Ronn it• Rudamt!'r  WR  6-4  \HS  f'R  
82  &,mard Akatu  SE  5-10  180  JR  
83  Ju~hCentile  K/1'  5-11  11/9  so  
84  John O\.',,ens  DE  6-3  265  JR  
85  Jcffr.-y Campbell  TE/DE  6-1  200  JR  
86  Dan O'Leary  TE  &-3  260  SR  
87  Jabari lfolk,way  TE  &-3  260  SR  
89  (rl.'rald t-.,1tirgan  TE  6-4  261  JR  
90  Lance Legree  NG  6-1  285  SR  
91  Andrew Dempsey  DE  6-2  265  SR  
92  M..ittMcNcw  K  6-3  200  SR  
9J  ll.J. Scott  DT  6-3  290  SR  
94  Andy Wisne  OT  6-3  272  SR  
95  Ry•n Roberts  DE  6-2  251  JR  
9t,  llilly l'almcr  TE  6-3  250  FR  
98  Anthony Wl1aver  DT  6-3  27/J  JR  
<J9  Jason Sapp  l.B  6-3  230  FR  

IN POSITION: quarterbacks 

Observer Staff Report 

All eyes will be on freshman Matt Lovecchio Saturday as he registers just his second career start for the Irish against the Midshipmen in Orlando. 
LoVecchio showed poise in a hostile setting when he took the helm of the 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 
TAILBACK 
22-Joou 
~•><~ 
;.~
4Htc:Nalr 
40-Murray 
RIGHT TACKLE 75-Vollen 
76-Toasoale 
TTGHTEND 
87·Holloway
86-0'leary 
fLANKfR 
111-Getltfrall 6./Ji-
Navy
OFFENSE 
TAILBACK
NI 
5-Ran, 
WUR
lHambert 
41-Harrls 
TAIL8AC~
43-llotk , 
39-fricks RIGHT GUARD 
70·Swantntr 
68 v,nuto 

wt6 
Irish offense at Michigan State, replacing then-starter Gary Godsey. Davie and company hopes ihe fresh­man can show that same control again. 
Lovecchio has completed 11 passes on 19 attempts for 143 yards and made two completions in the endzone. 
On the ground, the quarterback has rushed for 86 yards. 
,;~ 
,FREE SA 
211-Lepore 
9·Brooks 
Navy 
N
DEFENSE 


39-Daolllin 
33-Watson 
CORNERBACK 
1·Wlll11ms 
NOTRE DAME

2Heckstrom 
DEFENSE 
CORNERBACK 
42·Wallon 
15-Jafferson 
STRONG SAfFIV 
5·l•raal 20-Sapp 
FREE SAfTTY 25-0rlYer 
28·0ykes 

Midshipmen schedule 
Sep.2 TEMPLE L Sep.16~ L
~f$on.~lege 
L

~.TfY 
L 

~\4 :o ~E ~ "I, Oct. 21 R ERs' : Oct. 28 TOLEDO Nov.11 atTutane Nov.18 WAKE FOREST Dec.2 ARMY 

third season at Navy 
career record: 
44-47 
at Navy: 
29-28 

Weatherbie against Notre head coach Dame: 0-5 
Roster 

No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt YR I Jake Bnwf:;!n LR 6-1 241 JR 4 David llills K 6-1 205 JR 5 Gene Rel'SC' RA 5.9 175 so 7 DeJuan Cromer ss 5-9 191 JR 8 Brian Maddt•n QB 6-1 221 JR 9 Matt Brooks FS 6-0 188 JR 10 Ed Malinowski s 5-10 197 JR 11 Beau Hufstetler p 5-11 186 SR 13 Brian Bourgeois ss 5-10 198 SR 14 Brian Broadwater QB 6-l 2114 SR 15 Justin Willis K 5-9 195 SR 16 Christian Chapman QB 5-8 199 so 17 Marcus Jackson CB 5-10 175 JR 18 J.P. Blecksmith QB 6-3 221 so 19 Harry Spencer WR 6-2 175 JR 20 Soso Dede RB 5-8 188 so 21 Jeff Lam RB 5-8 194 JR 22 Terence Coleman RB 6-0 209 JR 23 Marlon Terrell FB 5-8 203 JR 24 Bryce McDonald FB 6-0 222 so 25 Pat Haines FB 5.9 210 JR 26 Chris Lepore FS 6-lJ 198 SR 28 Davede Alexander CB 5.9 165 SR 29 Mike Wied! CB 5-7 185 SR 31 Justin Takasaki CB 5--10 176 so 32 Raheem Lambert FB 5-10 207 JR 33 Clyde Clark s 6-1 195 so 34 Rashad Jamal RB 5-10 205 JR 35 Eric Reed FB 5·10 212 JR 36 Michael Darnell RB &-3 223 so 37 Brian Crosby OLB 5-11 215 SR 38 Kenyatta Martin OLB 6-0 216 SR 39 Donnie Fricks RB 5-8 185 so 40 Jeff Gaddy CB 5-10 176 JR 41 Cee Harris FB 5-3 200 so 42 Rashad Jones OLB 6·2 235 SR 43 Josh Bock RB 5-10 186 SR 44 David Bader OLB 6-0 210 SR 45 Ken Del Mazo LB 5-10 202 SR 4b Isaac Roland s 5-9 186 SR 47 Dan Person DE 6-5 240 so 48 Mike McGee LB 5-11 228 SR 49 Mike Chiesl OLB 6-1 231 JR 50 Mike Galdieri LB 6-0 218 JR 51 Dan Ryno LB 6·1 225 JR 52 Shaka Martin OLB o-2 233 JR 53 David Kllflda LB 6-0 232 JR 54 josh Brindel OLB 6-2 246 so 55 Daryl Hill LB 6-0 230 SR 56 Justin Cramer OLB 6-2 213 JR 57 Josh Wolf DE 6-3 231 JR 58 Ryan Hamilton LB 6-2 225 JR 59 Justin Jordan OLB 6-2 238 SR 60 Justin Simmons LB 6-0 226 so 61 Dan Thomas OLB 6-0 208 JR 62 Justin Smith C 6-5 243 so 63 Philip Yeh 0G 6-4 285 SR 64 John Jeffery 0G 6-3 256 JR 65 Clint Brown LS o-2 220 SR 66 Antonio Valle 0G 6-1 231 JR 67 Kevin McCormick 0G 6-4 273 JR 68 Dan Venuto 0G 6-6 288 JR 69 Travis Peace TE 6-4 258 so 70 Scott Swantner 0G 6-4 293 SR 71 Heath Sanders DE 6-3 245 so 72 Brett Cochrane OT 6-4 265 so 73 Ron Winchester OT 6-2 279 SR 74 Chad Adams C 6-2 280 SR 75 Rrian Schulz C 6-0 270 JR 76 C.rant Moody OT 6-4 252 so 77 David Walsh OT 6-6 260 so 78 Petr Peemoellrr OT 6-5 282 SR 79 Hoot Stahl OT 6-6 300 SR 80 Jon Gutekunst PK 5-11 185 SR 81 Brian Williams P/WR 6-0 194 SR 82 Brandon Rampani WR 6-0 197 JR 83 Dominic Bailey WR 5-9 160 so 85 Jonathan Fagins WR 5-10 179 SR &5 Billy l!ubbard WR 6-1 195 SR 87 Ste\·e Mercer TE 6-3 253 so 86 Jim Zakar TE 6-5 227 so 89 Du&ton Obermeyer DE 6-3 268 SR 90 Michad \Vagoncr DE 6-2 253 JR 91 Alan Thompson NG 5-10 283 JR 92 Matt llerger NG 6-2 235 JR 93 liric Severson DE 6-2 248 JR 94 Brad Wimsatt DE 6-3 270 SR 96 Pete Beuttenmuller DE 6-4 242 so 97 Andy 2'.etts NG 6-l 242 so 98 Joseph Adkins OLB 6-2 2.14 so 99 JoeyOwmby DE 6-3 2.18 so 
Friday, October 13, 2000 The Observer . EYE ON THE ENEMY page 5 
0-5 Midshipmen prepare to sink 3-2 Irish 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Writer 
The Navy Midshipmen 'Nill have a score to settle when they dock their neet in Orlaudo, Fla. to meet Notre Dame Saturday. 
After losing 36 consecutive games to the Irish, including last year's 28-24 heartbreak­er, the Middies are deter­mined to sink an Irish vessel that is slowly gathering momflntum. 
In this battle of indepen­dents, however, Navy will be hard pressed to put up much of a fight, struggling at 0-5 on tho season. 
After losing quarterback Brian Madden in spring prac­tice with a torn MCL liga­ment, the Middies have been hard-pressed to find a succes­sor. 
After missing time due to an injury or his own. Brian Broadwater is expect1~d to be at the helm of Navy's wish­bone attack this weekend. 
Broadwater is hoped to be the tonic for an offense that has been ill of late. The Middies have scored the fewest points, 39 in total, in all of Division I-A, and have averaged ouly 220.6 yards per game. 
Nolre Dame defensive coordinator Greg Mattison is leery of Navy's offense despite their lack of execution this season. 
"The wishbone offonse is a great equalizer," said Mattison. "You don't ever prepare for it and then all of a suddPn you haVfi a week to get ready for it." 
Mattison sees no problems in preparing his vaunted defense unit to be up for the Navy offense. 
"You have to gel the kids to believe that this is going to great effort," Mattison said. "This defense gets up for every game and they just have to understand it's assignment football.'' 
The key to Navy's offense will lie in its ability to turn Broadwater loose. 
After combining with back­up Ed Malinowski to gain just one yard on 30 carries last week against Air Force, the Midshipmen know that Broadwater musl have time to get the ball outside and turn upfield. 
The l'vfiddies hope to dupli­cate the 231 rushing yards they gained last year in Notre Dame Staclium 

Defensively, Navy will fea­ture a 3-4 set and will likely bUtz Irish freshman quarter­back Matt Lovecchio early and often. Lovecchio, the newly anointed starter, demonstrated poise in clip­ping the Stanford Cardinal last week and feels ready to face the Middies. 
"They're goi.ng to play hard and come at us," Lo\'ecchio said. ''They'll blitz me a Jot because I'm a young quarter­back. It's something we work on in practice. I'll be pre­pared." 
Navy's defense, however, has not fared any better than its offensive cow1terpart, giv­ing up an average of 31.7 poinL,;; per game. 
TherA is much history between Navy and Notre Dame as this match-up will constitute their 74th consecu­tive meeting, making it the longest running .intcrsectional rivalry in the country. 
Navy is traditionally the lower rankerl opponent but always seems to rise to the occasion. In 1997, the Irish needed Allan Rossum to knock a Middie wideout out of bounds at the one yard line as time expired. 
fast facts 
ABOUT NAVY 
. 
Location: Annapolis, Md. . Enrollment: 4,000 

. 
Colors: Navy Blue and Gold 

. 
Nickname: Midshipmen 

. 
Conference: Independent . Founded: 1845 



. The midshipmen and the Irish have met for 74 straight years and Navy has lost 36 consecu­tive contests to the Irish. 
AFP Photo 

. The Navy-Notre Dame yearly Midshipman Eric Severson lunges for a tackle in the fourth quarter of match-up is the nation's longest. Navy's 24-0 loss to TCU Sept. 30. 
211 IIARG!E 
... PIZZA .. 7:99

Cheese & I lopp,lng ..w11 t•PJH"I• 0.1, $1.so 
>.No Coupon Necnsary. Plus DeHvery & Tox Where Applicable. ' ' Not Valid With MJ other Oller. Umiled Time Ofter. 
54533 
Jerrace I.II. 
·{Eost of Ironwood} 

-
iiJ ' 

5,2750 U.S. 33N (N. of Oeveland Rell 
AROUND THE NATION 
A LooKAr Tms WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION
page (1 ---~--· 
GAME OF THE WEEK 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 8 9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
22 
23 24 25 
1 2 
3 4 5 6 7 
8 
g 
10 11 12 13 
14 
15 16 17 '18 ·19 :io 
:!1 
:!2 :!3 
:l4 
l5 
AP poll 
tl'am record 
Nebraska 5-0 Kansas Slale 6-0 Virginia Tech 5-0 Miami (Fla.) 4-1 Clemson 6-0 Ohio State 5-0 Florida State 5-1 Oklalioma 5-0 
Or11gon 4-1 
Florida 5-1 Washington 4-1 TCU 5-0 UCLA 4-1 Georgia 4·1 Mississippi State 4-1 Southern Mississippi 4-1 Northwestern IH Michigan 4-2 Auburn 5-1 NOTRE DAME 3·2 Purdue 4-2 Arizona 4-1 Oregon Slate 4-1 South Caronna 5-1 Teus 3-2 

points 
1,771 1,640 1,627 1,507 1,491 1.377 1,357 1,336 1.140 1,068 1,035 982 862 785 
116 
725 632 614 
457 
322 315 267 261 239 124 


ESPN/USA Today poll 
team  record  p<>ints  
Nebraska  5-0  1,468  
Virginia Tech  5-0  1,370  
Kansas State  6-0  1,358  
Clemson  6·0  1,252  
Ohio State  5-0  1,220  
Miami (Fla.)  4-1  1,205  
Florida State  5-1  1,068  
Oklahoma  5-0  1,062  
Florida  5-1  1,032  
Washington  4-1  847  
TCU  5-0  830  
OreDon  4-1  740  
Georgia  4-1  679  
Mississippi State  4-1  673  
UCLA  4-1  643  
Southern Mississippi  4-1  638  
Micillgan  4-2  627  
Northwestern  S-1  456  
Auburn  5-1  375  
Oregon State  4-1  211  
Purdue  4-2  191  
Arizona  4-1  189  
Texas  3·2  155  
South Carolina  5-1  124  
Mississippi  4-1  115  

Observer experts 
NOTRE DAME 
PURDUE 
FLORIDA 
KANSAS STATE 
Season Record 
15-8 
NOTRE DAME NOHTHWESTERN FLORIDA 
OKLAHOMA 
Season Record 
14-9 
NOTHE DAME NOHTHWl~STEHN FLORIDA .KANSAS STATE 
Season Record 
12-I I 


By PEYTON BERG Sports Writer 

Given Michigan and Wisconsin's recent travails, the Purdue-Northwestern game suddenly has signifi­cant Hose Bowl implica­tions. 
Last weekend Purdue overcame a 28-3 deficit to beat the Wolverines 32-31. Northwestern followed its overtime upset of Wisconsin with a 52-33 win against Indiana. Both teams come in on a roll. Purdue quarter­back Drew Brees' Heisrnan candidacy has suffered because of two losses at Notre Dame and Penn State. 
Two losses charged with emotion [a last second field goal and a tribute to a para­lyzed Nittany Lion team­mate] should not taint, how­ever, what has been an excellent senior campaign for the Texas native. 
The fact is Brees is the best passing quarterback in the country. He makes quick reads and delivers the ball with pinpoint accuracy, with mechanics comparable to Peyton Manning. At the midway point in the sea­son.he has thrown for near­1y 2,000 yards and 15 touchdowns, compared with only three interceptions. Before you give credit to Purdue's four wide receiver 
OTHER Top GAMES 
Auburn at Florida: Coach Tommy Tuberville's Auburn Tigers started quickly, charging to a 5-0 record before falling to the Mississippi State Bulldogs 17-10. Joe Loo Dunn's defense hold SEC leading rusher Rud.i Johnson to 26 total yards, including none in the fourth quarter. 
florida coach Stlwc Spurrier contin­ues to play musical quarterbacks. Spurrier inserted Rex Grossman into the lineup against LSU, and the freshman deliVfircd a 41-9 victory. Apparently the Gator defense decided to return after a weok's vacation in whkh they gave up 47 points to those same Mississippi Statn Bulldogs. 
Both te;uns sit atop their respective SEC divisions at 3-1. The winner will get some breathing room while tho loser will join the crowded ranks of teams with two confercncfl losses. 
olTense, consider Brees has rushed for nearly 300 yards as well. Coach Joe Tiller has also noticeably shifted the emphasis to a more bal­anced offensive game plan, as evidenced by running back Montrell Lowe's 100­yard efforts against both Notre Dame and Michigan. 
Northwestern's only loss this year was to a talented TCU team in September. At the midway point, the Wildcats find themselves at the top of the Big 10 stand­ings. Without Ohio State on the schedule, wins against Purdue and Michigan would earn them a trip to Pasadena. 
Quarterback Zak Kustok 
Oklahoma at Kansas State: 
Nobody could have foreseen Oklahoma's 63-14 woodshed beating of Texas last Saturday. The Sooners find themselves in tho top 10, set to play Kansas State and Nebraska on successive Saturdays. 
Florida State's loss to Miami on Saturday elevated the Wildcats to No. 2 in the AP Top 25. Oklahoma will provide Kansas State with its first true test, especially on the defensive side of the ha.II. The Sooners have one less win than Kansas State's last five opponents r,ombinfld. Look for an offensive shootout with around 800 yards of total offense. 
Oklahoma c:annot get caught hung over from their big win and looking ahead to Nebraska. The team that. con­trols the time of possession through a steady running game will most likely prevail. 
Friday, October 13, 2000 
leads a surprisingly produc­tive offense. Tailback Damien Anderson has already amassed 1,000 yards, including back-to­back 200-yard efforts against Wisconsin and Indiana. TJ Duckett and Michael Bennett get all the attention, but Anderson's more consistent play has Jed to big wins for the Wildcats. 
Prepare for an offensive shootout of WAC propor­tions. Neither defense has proven to be especially tough, so 30 points probably won't win this game. Michigan or Ohio State will await the victor, meaning that the race to the Hose Bowl is far from over. 
around the dial 
Notre Dame at Navy (Orlando) 
I I a.m. CBS channel 22 
Purdue at Northwestern 
noon, ESPN 
Minnesota at Ohio State 
noon, ESPN 2 
Auburn at Florida 
3:30 p.m.• CBS channel 22 
Ole Miss at Alabama 
7 p.m., HSPN 

-
OW WC I U 
Friday, October 13, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
N 
11uarterbacks: Lovecchio offensive line: Navy is special teams: Navy' made no big mistakes ranked 84th nationally return teams are
the inside 
lqst week. Broadwater in rushing. The Irish O­mediocre at best. has had a tough line has underachieved Special teams has won 
season. so far, but should games for Notre Dame. 
edge 

dominate the trenches. 


running backs: Roth defensive line: Na1Jy coaching: Navy has been 
records: 3-2 

teams have struggled starts a nose guard, mauled in its 0-5 start. Overall
A.P. rank: No. :w 

on lhe ground. Jones is Zetts, who is 242 Davie made a good 
Notre Dame finally coach's poll: NR a gamebreaker for the pounds. Notre Dame's move inserting the faces a team they

Irish. defensive line has been mobile J,oVecchio al 
should simply "out-

N 
a strength. quarterback. records: 0-5 athlete . .. Navy is 
A.P. rank: JVR receivers: Givens turned linebackers: Bolman will intangibles: Notre Dame seriously challenging 
coach's poll: NR 

in a strong be key to stopping the has recently played Rutgers for the title of performance last week. Navy wishbone. Naoy much heller on Worst Team on Notre Navy's receivers are Overall, there is more the road. The Mids' 
Dame·s schedule. The

Series Record 
primarily decoration in athleticism for the confidence cannot be 
Irish should be Notre Dame leads the wishbone. Notre Dame group. riding high. 

expected to rack up 
Navy 63-9-1 
plenty qfyards on the

secondary: Navy's 
ground and give

Lepore is solid. The Irish have more depth, · loVecchio some not that they will need experience throwing it against the r I 2th­
the ball. 

ranked passing offense. 
IRISH INSIGHT 
Notre Dame boasts good environment for players on, off field 
At least he was honest. sonas remain in the Stadium or 
Jim Murray, the legendary Los Cartier Field. Angeles Times sports columnist Because at a large number of from 1961 until his death in schools, graduation rates are 1998, heard Alabama coach lower than Jim Sanson's field Bear goal percentage, policies on Bryant attending class are as nonexis­speak at a tent as the Irish passing game coaching and more second [and third and clinic in 10th] chances are given to make Santa Steve Howe and Darryl Barbara Strawberry jealous. during the Not to say the two programs 1960's. facing off on Saturday in 
Murray's Orlando are football heavens. recollection Kimberly Dunbar, Eric ofthe Chappell and the rest of the encounter, Irish outcasts of the last few which years have caused a once appeared untouchable University to look in a column more like a state school. Notre published Dame is one of only three in the Sept. Division 1-A football programs 14, 1995 edition of the Times, [along with University of Texas included Bryant's views on the El-Paso and Texas Tech] on pro­Alabama-type player. bation for major infractions by 
"If you got any milk-drinking, the NCAA, according to the church-going, book-learning, NCAA Web site. suit-wearing students who can And two Navy players, throw the football, you send Cordrea Brittingham and Arion them to Stanford," Bryant said. Williams were suspended indefi­
"If you got any whiskey-drink­nitely from all athletic activities ing, women-chasing, fist-fight­on July 21 after both men were ing a-tha-letes who can knock charged with second-degree your jock off, you send them to rape and second-degree sexual 
-
ol' Beah!" offense. Williams was also 
In this age of political correct­charged with third-degree sexu­ness, you are more likely to hear al offense after a female Eminem sing opera than a foot­Midshipman accused the players ball coach admit he has some of of raping her at a private party the same thoughts as "ol Beah." earlier in July. Williams started 
But don't believe coaches who 11 of 12 games last year at cor­say that Bryant-like visions nerback and recorded seven never cross their mind. · tackles and an interception in 
Last spring, Bob Davie men­Navy's 28-24 loss at Notre tioned he wanted a "thug" at Dame. linebacker. He did not want a So the ills are not limited to true "thug" in the Bear Bryant­the Nebraskas and Miami5. Just mold or a New York city street like millionaires, priests and hoodlum. But he was certainly doctors are not exempt from the talking about the need to have a law and making mistakes. physical player with a take-no­But there remains some said. "And I'm not talking about Telander. The author writes word in that last sentence. 
prisoners attitude, a sense that integrity, honor and an empha­pro football. Notre Dame-Navy, about all the cheating, steroids. Corruption in major college the ball earlier is as despicable sis on the whole person at the Notre Dame-Air Force, Notre violence and the oxymoron football is as old as Father as their mother's ex-boyfriend. service academies, Notre Dame, Dame-Stanford, it's off the known as "student-athlete." Hesburgh.
We hear all the time about Stanford and a few other charts as far as the index of how In short, he writes about the And the likelihood of it split personalities of football schools. The athletes go to class, successful those pP-ople will be. hypocrisy of college football. improving much is about the players, the players who are live with their fellow students in When you look on those side• "One of the main reasons I same odds that the Notre Dame nice, shy and quiet off the field dorms and have somewhat of a lines. you're talking about some wrote this book with such a administration will eliminate but when they step between the normal college existence in people that do things the right sense of high indignation is parietals. On Saturday, watch lines. there emerges a new per­comparison to their classmates. 
way." because I knew from my the game, taunt the Midshipmen .. son. And the players from Navy That's not always the case research that almost everything and enjoy the 37th-straight Irish 
It's almost become cliche. Ask and Notre Dame graduate with elsewhere. I was going to say had been said victory. Critique, criticize and Davie and he ·n name Grant a degree that can take them Read 'The Hundred Yard Lie: before," Telander wrote. "And crucify Hob Davie. 
Irons, Lance u~grec, Anthony much farther than the local The Corruption of College nobody listened. Maybe, I fig­But be grateful he's not Bear Denman, Tony Weaver and McDonald's. 
Football and What We Can Do ured, if I screamed louder than Bryant.many others who exhibit some 'Ten years from now, the per­To Stop It" published in 1989 by anybody ~lsc, a few folks would The opinions expressed in this 
of these dual behaviors. centages of successful people in then Sports Illustrated senior bear me. column are those ofthe author Luckily, for the most part, at this world [ who will play on writer and current Chicago Sun­I am sure Telander would and not necessarily those ofThe Notre Dame the on-field per-Saturday] is incredible," Davifl Times sports columnist Rick admit "few" is the operative Observer. 



,........,II""""______._,___________________________,,_______ 
Notre Dame vs. Navy (Orlando) The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 13, 2000 

Friday, October 13, 2000, 8:00 pm Auditorium, The Hesburgh Center for International Studies University of Notre Dame 
General Admission: $10 ND/SMC: $5 Students: FREE 
Sponsored by: The India Association of Notre Dame The Asian Indian Classical Music Society

-. 
Office of International Student Services and Activities 
-

Late Night Dominator Special 
2 Large

Special 1 Large $8.99 1-Topping 
1 topping 1 16" One topping pizza
$6.99


' . 






