
Subway series 
Local candidates 
The Mets and Yankees face-off for game three 

Wednesday
Five local candidates host a panel discussion to 
ofthe World Series to end the Yankees· 14­
entertain questions about campaign issues. 
. game winning streak. 
Find out their views inside. 
OCTOBER 25,
Sports . page 16 

News . page 8 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 41 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Lleber01an visits crunpus, discusses religion, incites protest 
• Vice presidential candidate calls for return to religion 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Associate News Editor 

In a time of moral uncer­lainty. America needs to return to the ideAs of faith and va.lucs and bring them into the public dialogue on issues. using them as a uni­fying factor, said Democratic Vice Presidential candidate Senator Joseph Lieberman in an address to the Notre Dame com­m u n i t y See Also Tuesday. 
"Airport Rally"
T h e 

address, page 3 billed as a m a j o r speech on faith and values. was not a traditional cam­paign speech attacking the opposing Party and pushing his Party's platform planks. Rather, Lieberman, the first Jewish-American candidate to be tapped for a spot on a presidential ticket said he chose Notre Dame to deliver a major speech on faith because the integration of faith and values at the University made him "feel at home here [Notre Dame]." 
Lieberman emphasized the need to use faith to begin to restore the country's social and moral values that have been eroded by school shoot­ings, the breakdown of fami­lies and the influence of the entertainment industry on American culture. 
"I believe that our best hope for re kindling the American spirit and renew­ing our common values is to 
have faith again," said Lieberman. "Not just in our hearts but in our communi­ties. Not just in our private places of worship but in our public spaces of conversa­tion. And not just in our sep­arate beliefs, but is our com­
mon  commitment  to  our  
common  purposes  as  
Americans."  

Limits exist as to what gov­ernment can do to strength­en the moral fabric of the country and it is not designed to dictate behavior of citizens in America, said Lieberman. However, Lieberman said the Founders knew that religion was an influence on values and moral behavior and that is why religion was mentioned in the major documents writ­ten by the Founders. 
Lieberman said that he feared that while Americans have not abandoned their faith individually. they have abandoned the desire to articulate it in the public sphere. This has resulted in what he referred to as the "values vacuum." 
"More and more people shrink from drawing bright lines and making moral judg­ments. which are critical to the functioning of a free soci­ety," said Lieberman. "The line between church and state is an important one and has always been critical for us to draw. but in recent years I fear that we have gone far beyond what the Framers ever imagined in separating the two." 
Popular culture would ben­efit from Americans return­ing to articulating their faith in public. said Lieberman. By 
see SPEECH/page 4 

PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer A variety of student groups, including Right to Life, the Progressive Student Alliance and the United Muslim Association protested outside Washington Hall Tuesday during Senator Joseph 
Lieberman's speech. 
. Student groups protest democrat­ic position 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
News Editor 

Students gathered outside Washington Hall to protest the position of vice presiden­tial candidate Senator Joseph Lieberman (D.-Conn.) and the Democratic Party on 
abortion and capital punish­ment Tuesday. Among the groups represented were Right to Life, the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA) and the United Muslim Association. 
"We wanted to make sure the South Bend community knew ... that his record on faith and values was not going to reflect what he was going to say. especially about abortion," said Mandy Reimer, co-president of Notre Dame's Right to Life 
group. "We knew that he wasn't going to address that issue." 
Lieberman did not speak directly on abortion during the course of his speech. despite calls from the bal­cony demanding that he address the topic. 
"What about abortion?" asked seminary candidate Steve Sanchez, who said that Lieberman's voting record supported a "culture of 
see PROTESTS/page 6 




Board postpones mission statement revision till spring 
before break. the faculty passed a resolution in sup­tee] is that these five people will be the conduit to By MOLLY McVOY port of the College's present mission statement, discuss the mission; not to work against the mission s~int Mary's Editor 
according to Jeffrey Breese. the chair of faculty council, but with it." 
assembly. The mission council is meeting 
The date for Board of Trustees approval of Saint "We passed a resolution that basi­with Marilou Eldred, the College's Mary's new mission statement has been pushed back · cally voiced support for the current "We passed a resolution president today to update her on from the board's November meeting to their meeting mission statement," Breese said. "If that basically voiced sup­the status of the new mission in April, according to several members of the mis• there is a process for change or dis­statement and get her input,
port for the current
sion council. cussion the faculty wants more of a according to Sister Roseanne
mission statement."
A draft of the new mission statement -which was say." Schultz, the Vice President for originally scheduled to be presented to the board at In an effort to get input from the Mission and the head of the mis­their fall meeting -has been p·ostponed in order to faculty, it is likely that an ad hoc sion council.
Jeffrey Breese 
get further input from members of the College com­committee will be put together at the In addition. the council is host­
chair of faculty assembly
munity. next faculty assembly meeting that ing open forums for students to 
This comes after several faculty members were will look into thfl College's mission voice their opinions concerning concerned with the process of changing the state­and how that relates to any changes the mission statement and ment and the present draft that was presented at a made in the mission statement. changes that will be made. faculty assembly meeting early in October. In addition, two more members of the faculty have The first forum was held on Tuesday and another 
"We want to get all the feedback we can and begin been invited to sit on the mission council in addition will be held on Thursday at 5:00 p.m. in Haggar to redo the revisions." said .Jerome McElroy. a facul• to McElroy. Student Center. ty member and member of the mission council. "Good faith is being demonstrated to invite two fac­"We're trying to get feedback from all the other 
At a special meeting called by the faculty assembly ulty," Breese said. "The point lof the ad hoc commit-constituents at the college," McElroy said. 
Wednesday, October 25, 2000
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Judge wisely 
With all of the political rhetoric passed out these d1ys, it is sometimes hard to find the reality b,)Ilf\ath the mountain of exaggerations, half­truths, and "little white lies." Myths abound in the Vlorld of politics, the worst of which is the broadly p,~rceived scope of power b1stowed upon the president. 
Pat Peters
As explained in a round lc.ble discussion Monday night featuring Donald Kommers a:1d Richard Garnett of the 

Ads Manager
L:1w School, the power of tl1e p-esident to nominate S·1prcmc Court justices is lim­ited by several factors. First, not all justices vote in ways that reflect the ideology of their nominator. According to Kommers, David Souter has become an outspoken liberal voices on the court although being nominated by a conservative George 11.W. Bush. President Harry Truman once called one of his nominations the "biggest damned fool mistake ofmy life." With lifotime appointmenl<i,justices are free to vote however they choose with no fear of" executive branch retaliation. 
Secondly, the number of nominations allotted to the president is limited to the number of present justices who resign. Although often beyond retire­ment agc,juslices are reluctant to resign unless they know that a member of a similar ideological pitrty will be naming their replacement. 
Finally, justices arc (to quote Carnett), more "Jpgal technicians" than philosophical or moral lc,aders of the country. They interpret the law. c;1eck iLc, constitutionality and rule accordingly despite their own personal convictions. So their rnle. while stemming from presidential partisan­
• ship, remains mostly aloof from direct political action. My argument is that to vote for a candidate based upon who he or she might nominate to the Supreme Court is not an elTective way to chal­lenge a strong societal issue. Changes must come in the form ofConstitutional amendmenis. What Cl)unts in an election is Lhe political and moral philosophy of the candidates. which laws they intend to enforce and the proposals they plan to S'Jbmit to congress. History shows that democratic candidates have a better record of upholding civil rights legislation, maintaining programs for the middle and lower classes and budgeting monies toward the funding ofsocial programs. These programs do help peo­ple: children. families, men, women and senior citizens who deserve to share in the prosperity of America. Social Security, Medicare. Head Start, AFDC (Aid for Families with Dependent Children. a program cul by the Republican "Contract with America") Democratic programs that have faced Hepublican opposition since their inception. 
In contrast, the Hepublican agenda has focused almost exclusively on lowering taxes, whether an "'l.Cross the board tax cut" as suggested by George 
W. Bush, or one that simply favors the upper classes. This type ofgoverning drove our economy into the recent recession of the late 1980s and early 1990s (Heaganomics) and previously the Great Depression. Further evidence that this phi­losophy is not right for America comes from Federal Reserve Chairman Allan Greenspan, whose wisdom many credit for the current eco­nomic boom, who has said that any tax cut would only have a negative effect on the economy. 
These acts of a president, budgeting and enforc­ing government programs are within the span of presidential power. They are the issues that should be focused on in the coming election; not predictions of what might and might not be done to controversial Supreme Court decisions. 
On Tuesday, Nov. 7, try to avoid the rhetoric, personal attacks and exaggerations from both candidates and focus on their politics. The power of the presidency is limited, but that power does lnave America affected. Vice President Al Gore is an experienced leader. who despite personal flaws has the ability to guide America through eight more years of prosperity. 
The views expres!>·ed in the Inside, Column 
ore those of the author and not necessarily 
t.fiose ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Kate Nagengast Laura Kelly Kelly Hager Graphics Liz Zanoni 
Katie Annis 
Sports 

Production Ka1hlecn O'Brien 
Rachael Protzman 

Viewpoint 

Lab Tech Lane Herringion Angeh Campos 
Th, Observe, (USPS 599 2-4000) i> pubfoheJ Monda)' chrough Friday 01ccp1 during exam and vacation period,. The Observer 1s a member of ,ho Auoci.uc-d Pren. All reproduction rights :tr<" re!crvcd. 


BAYLOR UNIVERSITY 
Director removal arises from e-mail 
With William Dembski's removal from his duties as director Thursday, the Michael Polanyi Center's future at Baylor University is even more unclear. Dembski was released from his position Thursday after the release of a controversial e-mail he wrote that caused concern among some Baylor University faculty members. Dembski's e-mail conflicted with the theme emphasized in the external committee's report, which stated that he and the Center would work in a collegial manner with other members of the Baylor faculty. "Any faculty mem­ber who posts intolerant remarks should be held accountable for those statements," he said. Michael Beaty, director of the Institute of Faith and Learning, wouldn't comment on !Jembski's reassignment except that Dembski's actions. after the release of the e-mail, compromised his ability to serve as director. Beaty said Dembski will now serve as associate research professor in conceptual foundations of science within the universi­ty's Institute of Faith and Learning, where he will devote himself to the research of intelligent design. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Event: Community  . Concert: Notre Dame  . Concert: Notre Dame  . Event: American I!cart  
Breast Cancer Awareness  Glee Club fall Concert,  Glee Club Fall Concert,  Walk: registration 8 a.m..  
and Education Program:  8 p.m.. Washington Hall.  8 p.m., Washington llall.  WNDU. for information  
"Angels Night Out," span­ . Event: "The Ultimate  . Event: Niles Ilaunted  call 258-4018.  
sored by Michiana Breast  Corn Maze," 5 to 10 p.m.,  House, 8 lo 11 p.m., 855  . Event: Oktoberfest 2000.  
Cancer Symposium.  BabboU Farms and  Mayllower Road, off U.S.  8 p.m., DANK Ilaus,  
7 p .. m.. McKenna Hall.  Greenhouse, Stevensville.  31. Niles, for information  Brmton Harbor. call (616)  
call (616) 687-FEAH..  926-6652 for information.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Ohio State works to perfect artificial heart 
COLUMBUS 
implanted. 
The Ohio State University Medical Dr. Philip Binkley, section head of Center's commitment to research has heart failure and transplantation at lead to many achievemen._ts over the the OSU Medical Center. cared for the years. One of the achievements has two patients who had the AB-180 been implanting an innovative heart implanted. pump devicf> called the AB-180. Binkley said "that the device was 
Dr. Andrew Goldstein, a cardiac key in keeping his paticnLs alive until surgeon and a former space shuttle a transplant could be pcrfornrnd." engineer, who came to OSU two years The FD/\ is currently investigating ago, has been involved with the devel­the first trials of th(i pump. For now it opment and use or the AB-180 for is usf':d only in extreme circumstances. about 10 years. According to Goldstein attributes OSU's involve­Goldstein, the AB-180 is an ing manner. ment to iLc, commitment to becoming a implantable heart pump that uses an The device is much smaller than the top research institute. electrically driven propeller to circu­pumps now being used. The AB-180 is "It was really great Ohio State was late blood from the heart through the about the size of a hockey puck. The able to do (the implantation). The rea­body. size makes it easier to implant, son is because in the past two to three 
The AB-180 is different from other because it can be placed in the chest years, the university has put a heart pumps because of the fact that a right next to the heart. Larger pumps tremendous commitment behind propeller is used to continuously move are either implanted in the abdomen developing a world-class heart institu­blood forward instead of in a pulsat-or connected by tubes rather than be tion," Goldstein said. 

Houston 79 63 Philadelphia 73 53 Wash DC 69 56
Via Asa001ated Preu CJrapN,:;.NIH 
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA 
Male rape goes unreported 
The stigma of male rape is often the biggest reason the crime can go unreported. "I have received e-mails, four or five, from men after they have graduated telling me that this [rape! happened to them while they were stu­dents at UF," said Maggie Gerard. coordinator of the Victim Advocate program. The men were so cmbar­
.rassed that they did not feel they could come forward while they were still at the University of Florida. The men did not want anything done about the report other than having it on record, Gerard said. Ann Tierney, a psychol­ogist from the Center for SexuaVAssault Abuse Recovery and Education at UF, said male rape on the UF campus is often not reported. Nationally, rape occurs 1.2 times per 1,000 men aged 20 to 24, according to National Crime Victimization Study conducted by the U.S. Department of Justice in 1998. That age range is the group with the largest percentage of male rapes per 1,000 people. Comparatively, women, aged 20 to 24, arc raped eight times per 1,000 people. The highest age range is 16 to 19, according to the Justice Department study. 
5 Illy Soul h Bend Foree as t 

The AccuWeathe,... forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 25. 
AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separale high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
........................... 

C 2000 AccuW.eather, lr,c. GOLD WARM STATIONARY 
P°ttfflJ~.' 

® © D D D D CJ D 
HIQI> Low Showers Rain T-sto,ms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloud)' 
Atlanta 75 62 Las Vegas 84 60 PMland 58 47 Baltimore 70 52 Memphis 83 59 Sacramento 64 50 Boston 62 55 Milwaukee 65 58 St LOUIS 71 58
Q,~-~Aw-Q ~ ~ d 
Chicago 70 56 New York 71 56 Tampa 78 54
Showers T-s/orms Rain /"Jurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
LieberIDan urges rally crowd to keep political 01omentu01 
By KIFLIN TURNER News Writer 
An energetic crowd awaited the arrival of vice presidential candidate Senator Joe Lieberman yesterday at South Bend air­port. 
Greatly contrasting from the formal and conservative atmosphere of Lieberman ·s earlier speech at Washington Hall. the expansive airline hangar was full of lively talk and energy. 
Rock and roll music blared through speakers, encouraging a celebratory spirit for the audience rallying for the Democratic Party. 
"H ain't over, till it's over," said Lieberman, citing the famous words of Yogi Berra. 
Although recent polls have placed the Al Gore-Lieberman team behind Governor George W. Bush and Dick Cheney, Lieberman maintained a positive and con­lident atlitude. 
"The experts think it will be the closest race since 1960," said Lieberman, refer­ring to the presidential race between Kennedy and Nixon. It was later discov­ered that the race came down to such a sl.im margin that a few votes comprised the determined victory for Kennedy. 
"It comes Jo one extra vote per voting precinct," said Lieberman, in hopes of rekindling similar support from his late predecessor. 
"If all of our supporters do that, we're going to be in the victory column," he said. 
"I feel like the momentum is on our side," said Lieberman. Urging the crowd to closely examine the record of the last eight years, Lieberman concluded that vot­ing for Gore is a clear choice in order to continue in the current state of prosperity. 
Together with the creation of 22 million new jobs, the largest surplus in U.S. histo­ry, the smallest government in 40 years, and the lowest crime rate in 25 years, Lieberman identified the hard work of Gore and the Clinton Administration as progressive and successful. 
"We've got the strongest economy in the history of the coun­try," said Lieberman. 
·"Do we want to keep moving forwards, or do we want to move back­wards?" asked Lieberman of the crowd.· 
He contrasted the success of his running mate to the present conditions of Texas. The environmental record in Texas is ranked third worst for water pollution. and 
1.4 million children live without health insur­ance. 
"One thing we haven't criticized them on is their education record," said Lieberman on the con­dition of the education­al system in Texas. He voiced concern on the achievement gap between blacks and whites in the state. 
The imbalance between racial groups "raises real concerns and validity," Lieberman added, "it is large and increasing." 
He jabbed at Bush's ignorance of the issue, saying the governor was avoiding, or side­stepping the facts. 
"[Bush] gives new meaning to the Texas two-step," said Lieberman. 

Lieberman declared that one of the first issues he and Gore would tackle would be educational reform. 
"To invest in making America's public schools the best in the world [is a primary goal]," he said. 

"Honestly, no one does better work than the men and women who teach our chil­dren." He proposed a $10,000 deductible to families sending children to college. 
Stressing his commitment to creating opportunities for citizens, Lieberman pointed to future aims 
in giving the middle­class tax cuts. 
"If you pay down the debt and keep the inter­est rates low, you're giving the people a tax cut," he said. 
Looking at the pros­perity of the present and onwards to a rewarding future, Lieberman credits soci­ety and its technological advancements. 
"We live in the great­est country in the world because we dream the biggest dreams and have the greatest solutions. 
"In our time, the miracles of technology are hard to believe," he said. 
Lieberman thanked his running mate, Al Gore for giving him the opportunity to run as Vice President. 
"Thanks to Al Gore, I've been given the chance to break a barrier. The last two and a half months have been an unexpect­ed miracle." 
Lieberman noted Gore as "a leader gift­ed by nature and his intelligence who has seen over the horizon at what is ahead in the future." 
"Together, we will win a great victory for America's future," said Lieberman. 
Lieberman noted that his invitation to Notre Dame after giving a previous lecture on campus was an honor and that he felt at home because of the welcome recep­tion. 


~f 


di ,{~,j~-~ 
t: 

A Solo Piano Concert 
Friday October 27, 2000 8 pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 

For ticket infonnation contact the s,int M.,,,, Co/1•1•~ Saint Mary's Box Office at ~M8f;M'k,/ 
FOR. THE AR.TS

284-4626 
IIOTII• DAIi•, IN 

In  nearly fifty (50!) U.S. Cities  The week of January  4-11  
If you  live  near  a  city  - Specific 48  hour  period  
YOU can  take  the  Plunge!  Set by each  Site.  

INTERESTED? NEED TO KNOW MORE? COME TO AN INFORMA170N SESSION! 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 
7:30 PM 
AT DIE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Registration Forms available at the CSC & at www.ndtoday.com 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: MONDAY. OCTOBER 30th 


Albany ...n1huquerque... eoston+Buffalo•Chlcago... cincinnati""'Cleueland Columbus+Dallas•Des Moines+Detrolt+Grand Rapids+Honolulu Houston .., Indianapolis•Mobile...New York. •Oak.land•Philadelphia PhoeniH+Pittsburgh+St. Petersburg•South Bend•San Antonio San Diego•Tacoma...washlngton D.c....nND MORE! 
Please join us in support of the The Center for the Homele'ss by bringing u donation of canned food to the concert. There will be collection baskets at the entrances. 
Wednesday, October 25, 2000

page 4 The Obmver . CAMPUS NEWS 

uals from religious back­abuse," "We share this v1s1on of a ilies and communities," said 
grounds other than his own Emphasizing that if elected, more just, more moral, and Lieberman. 
who have embraced him. he and Gore· could not "cure more inclusive America. And "After all, strengthening 
"Instead of focusing on our (America's] moral ail­we share a dedication to Medicare and Social Security
continued from page I 
what seems different to ments from Washington," but using our of'fices and our surely follows the command­all uwing faith to influence some, they have embraced rather would "continue seek­influence to support and ment to honor our fathers values., Lieberman said that what is common to all," said ing laws and policies th~t are encourage this new burst of and mothers. Improving our he and Democratic Lieberman. informed and expresses our moral and cultural renewal." public schools and expanding 
Lieberman acknowledged best values." Lieberman cited specific access to health care surely
Prnsidential candidate Al 
that it can be a challenge to Both he and Gore share a policies that he and Gore fulfills our obligations lo careGore would fight to take the 
entertainment industry "ful­overcome religious differ­commitment to returning would address if elected that for our cliildren, the most f'ill the responsibilities that ences. but it is in the best America to a more moral would demonstrate a com• precious of God's creations, 
interest of Americans to do ground, said Lieberman. rnitment to· the integration of And protecting our environ­
come with their rights." 
Sp-~cifically, Lieberman so. "Vice President Gore and I faith in values. · ment upholds our obligation share this commitment to "We want to seek laws that honor and guard God's
demanded that the entertain· "One thing I have learned a to 
ment industry "stop targeting from these relationships is higher purpose," he said. will help strengthen our fam-work." 
adult-rated materials to that faith can and often kids." does lead us to different Lieberman also talked personal conclusions about religion as a unifying about particular issues," factor despite differences said Lieberman. "Devout among the beliefs of people men and women can and of various religions. At one do have disagreements point in his address, a mem­over difficult moral ques­
tions. But,

ber of the audience I hope' that ourJ

y c I I e d "We want to seek laws IDEA OF
f a i t h:

"What 
that will help strengthen s h o u I di
a b o u t BREAKFAST. 
abortion?" our families and help toI w h e n 
remind us1

communities." 
of our. common· 

Lieberman 
w a s 
Slightly different music 
addressing Joseph Lieberman origins, 
(because you're slightly different).
including,

thll issue vice presidential candidate of morali­
of course, the good­

t y Lieberman 
ness and is pro-h u m an ch o i cc. im pe rfec-
Lieberman responded to the tion that is in each of us. audience member and said, And it should help build "Y,rn've made your point. I the necessary good will respect that and I ask you to so we can disagree wilh­co11tinue my right to speak as ou t being divisive and so I i11tended lo do when I came we can ultimately reach 
here." for common ground." Ile told lhe audience that People of different he would address the issue of faiths have come togeth­differences on issues like er to positively impact ab,,rtion in his speech. America on issues, said 
!·or Lieberman, religion has Lieberman. been a unifying factor and "To make a difference, dr:1.wing religion and faith we must take our reli­into issues facing America is gious beliefs and values kev for him, he said. Because -our sense of justice, of he· invokes God often in right and wrong -into spneches, Lieberman has said America's cultural and thHt he has been encouraged communal life," said no. to do so fearing that peo­Lieberman. pll, will think he is blurring "And in communities the line of' church and state. across America, people 
"They seem to have forgot· of faith are working to ten that the Constitution repair some of the worst promises freedom of religion, effects of our damaged not freedom from religion," moral and cultural life, sa;d Lieberman in response and because of their to those questions. He added good works and that of that he has been encouraged others, we have made by people being willing to real progress in reducing embrace religious differences teen pregnancy, youth and has encountered individ-violence and drug 
POLISH CLUB IS OFFERING,-POLISH LANG U AGE,\b'E5 SONS 
' ··,.!. 

~ .,_/·;: .
,

STAR1 ,,,·_. ,:ftM. 
~').', 

W_ AY 
DAVID IOWII 
Bowie At The Beeb; The Be1t Of The IIIC SeHion• 61·12 
Join Replay: 
The dub that 

MEDIR7PLAY®
rewards your love 
of entertainment:" 

Your Entertaln111ent Superstore
Ask .ssoci . le for det. ils. 

For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
Medl"aPlav com•M Cauette, available
i • on ,elect titles, Sale ends November 4, 2000. Pricing may vary online. 826800 5626 


ATION 
Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
WORLD News BRIEFS 
13 soldiers die in Chechnya: Rebels staged dozens ol' attacks in Chechnya, killing 13 Russian soldiers and wounding 24, an offi­cial said Tw~sday. Eight Russian soldiers were killed and 12 were wounded when vehicles they were riding in struck mines, the official, a member of Moscow's pro-Chechnya admin­istration. said. Five other Russian soldiers died and 12 were wounded in a total of 33 rebel attacks un checkpoints and positions over the past 24 hours, the official said. 
Soldiers perish in Iran explosion: 
At least eight soldiers were killed and about a down injurC'd by an explosion in an ammuni­tion dump in nortlwastern Iran on Tuesday. an exile Iranian opposition group said. The dump near tho city of Mashhad was set on fire causing continuous explosions. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
House investigates priest's death: 
The !louse denounced "the assassination'' of a Minnesota-born priest and others who try to promote human rights in Kenya and request­ed an independent investigation of the shot­gun killing of the priest. Passed on a voice vote, the nonbinding flouse resolution asked the State Department to give Congress by Dec. 15 a report on the progress of the Kenyan government inquiry into the August death of the Rev. John Kaiser and that of a separate independent probe. 
Armed teen lets students go: An armed teenager briefly held a classroom full of children and a teacher hostage Tuesday at his former elementary school in Arizona before surrendering to authorities. No one was injured. The former student at Pioneer Elementary School gave up after talking with members of a police SWAT team, police spokesman Matt Brown said. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Indiana officials face charges; A city councilman and the Blackford County coroner were arrested on drunken driving charges in separate incidents late Monday and early Tuesday. A stale police trooper arrested David Taylor, 58, after the veteran Muncie City Council member, who was elected to his sixth term last year, allegedly drove left of ·center and failed to signal a lane change. Meanwhile, Hartford City police arrested Blackford County Coroner Tod L. Waters, 31, after his vehicle struck an embankment and turned upside down. 
Market Watch 10/24 
Dow 

10,393.07 +121.35 
]ONES 

Composite
Up, Same, Volume:

L261 496 

1,181,516,544 
AMEX: 905.86 ~9.99 Nasdaq: 3419.79 -48.90 NYSE: 646.54 +4.25 
S&P 500: 1398.12 +2.34 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
• 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MARCHFIRST INC (MRt.H)  -586Y  -6.'13  4.88  
MICROSOFT CORI' (MSFTI  -1.01  -0.62  r,1.,0  
INTEL CORP tlNTC)  -303  -1.J I  '12.00  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -PH  -0.l)t)  ,4_88  
UN E.l£CTR1C \C~)  ,7. IG  ?,3,6)6  S3.3 I  

COMPILED FROM THE ORSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
PERU 


AFP Photo 

Demonstrators push police during a protest in Lima Tuesday following the return of former intelligence chief Vladimiro Montesinos who fled to Panama after being accused of bribery and arms dealing. 
Ex-spy chief concerns Peruvians 
Associated Press 
LIMA 

As their country sinks deeper into political crisis, worried Peruvians are try­ing to understand what is happening. 
Does the return from exile of Peru's feared for­mer spy chief mean a showdown for power with President Alberto Fujimori? Or are Fujimori · and the ex-spy chief work­ing together to try to win impunity for officials taint­ed by corruption? 
The answers were unclear Tuesday. But growing numbers of Peruvians, from retired 
generals to office workers, were dubious that Fujimori was in control of events. 
Fujimori visited military installations Tuesday, seeking to reassure Peruvians that he was in charge of the armed forces and there was no threat of a rebe.llion hy supporters of the powerful former spy chief, Vladimiro Montesinos. 
His visits came a day after Montesinos made an unexpected return from exile in Panama, where he fled a month ago after the airing of a videotape show­ing him apparently bribing an opposition congress­man. 
A man identified as Montesinos by the Radioprogramas radio sta­tion told the station he had coordinated his return with Fujimori. In the inter­view, conducted by phone after he called the station, he said Fujimori called him on a cell phone when his plane stopped in Guayaquil, Ecuador, for refueling. 
Montesinos said he had to abandon Panama because his life was in danger from Peruvian guerrillas and drug traf­fickers seeking revenge for his role in combatting them. 
"I want you to under­stand that I have returned because they were going to kill me -and not to desta­bilize my country," he said. 
But opposition leaders and analysts say Montesinos has returned to use his influence in a desperate bid for laws granting amnesty from prosecution for himself and cronies who dominate Peru's armed forces. 
The government has insisted on the amnesty law as a condition for rati­fying special elections next year that would cut short Fujimori's third five-year term. 

Barak presses with negotiations 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak stepped np his urgent quest for the political allies needed to save his fragile government, and the army warned Tuesday that it was bracing for extended clashes in Palestinian towns. 
"Friends, this is a time of emer­gency. and in an emergency, broth­ers walk together," Barak told Israel radio as he appealed to all of the nation's diverse political parties to join in an emergency coalition gov­ernment. 
For Palestinians, Tuesday was a holiday marking the ascension of the Muslim Prophet Muhammad to heav­en from Jerusalem. 
Rain-drenched streets and cold weather helped dampen -but did not extinguish -confrontations in the West Bank, while clashes carried on in the drier Gaia Strip. Three more deaths were reported, bringing the toll from nearly four weeks of fighting to 127 -.the vast majority Palestinians, 
A 17-year-old Palestinian boy was shot and killed in Gaza, and a 13­
year-old died of a bullet wound suf­
fered four days earlier, the Shifa 
hospital said. A Palestinian man was 
fatally shot in the West Rank town of 
Jenin. 
In a bid to prevent further clashes at the Israeli military outpost of Netzarim Junction in Gaza, the army uprooted an entire olive grove used · by Palestinian militants for cover 
when firing on the Israelis. 
A tank positioned at the .Jewish 
settlement of Psagot fired three 
shells in responce to Palestinian 
fireTuesday at El Bireh, a town 
adjoining the city of Ramallah. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
==========-~--===================================================================================================================== 
Protests 
conrinued from page l 
death." 
Li11b1irman did not respond dirnclfy to Sanchez ·s ques­tion. stating instead that he would later address the ways in which people of different rnli~;ious beliefs could work to find common moral ground. 
"You made your point and I respect it," said Lieberman in rnsponse lo Sanchez's repeat­ed questions. "I ask only 
during his 12 years in the Snnate. The Senator's record includes five votes against banning the partial-birth abortion and others for tax­funded abortion on demand and against parental notifica­tion, according to National Hight to Life. 
"ILiebermanl is trying to secure the Catholic vote," said Hight to Life member Shelia Payne. "WH just want Catholics to know what they're getting into if they vote for him." 
Hight to 
Life member 

tlrnl you "As a Catholic university. L a u r a respect my Giannuzzi 
we have to speak out
right to con­emphasized tinue to against the partial-birth t h' e 
speak as I University's
abortion. " 
camo hnre lo obligation do." as a 
Laura Giannuzzi
Sanchez Catholic dC'c .incd to Right to Life member institution 
comment 
Tuoi;day. 
Brimer said that Sanchez was not affiliated with B.Ight to Lil'e. which sought to pro­mote a thoughtful, peaceful protest. 
"We wish that would not have happened," she said, explaining that the group hoped to dispel popular beliefs that pro-life groups ope:-ate in a fanatical man­ner. "That's what the media wants and they'd concentrate on L if they got it." 
ln;tead, representatives of Right to Life stood in a line outside holding signs bearing stat sties on Lieberman's vot­ing record and handed out lit­era lure which stated that Lieberman had supported aborlion in 66 of 6 7 votes 
to oppose Lieberman. 

"As a Catholic university, we have to speak nut against the partial-birth abortion," she said. "It's one of the great evils uf' our time and we have to do something about it." 
The group was successful, said Heimer, who noted that the protest's primary goal was to promote awarnncss. 
"A lot of people were sur­prised because Lieberman has claimed to be pro-life," she said. "It changed some people's minds." 
Also present were PSA members who chose to focus on the death penalty to emphasize the major parties' failure to address a number of moral issues in modern America. 
"We're not protesting 

Lieberman. We're protesting 
the Democratic party and its 
policies," said PSA member 
Paul Graham. "We're focusing 
on the death penalty, how it's 
racist and how it's wrong." 
PSA members carried signs comparing the prison popula­tion of 1970. which included 200,000 of the nation's 200 million citizens, to the 1999 numbers of 1.25 million and 27 5 million. Members also said that an African­American man who kills a white man is 11 times more likely to receive the death penalty than while ma.n who murders a black man. Member Aaron Kreider noted that the Clinton administra­tion has increased the num­ber of crimes punishable by the death penalty from two to 60 and that the U S has one ol' the highest incarceration rates in the world. 
The PSA bas similar con­

cerns about the Hepublican 
ticket. 
The two-party system caus­es candidates to compromise and adopt less extreme posi­tions to win the votes of criti­cal swing voters and battle­ground states, explained PSA member Joe Smith. 
"The focus on the issues has been eliminated because they're working so hard to win," he said. "It's actually ridiculous." 
Krider said that the protest succeeded in bringing the group's concerns to the atten­tion of those attending the speech, though the presence of multiple groups with differ­ing agendas resulted in a dis­jointed event. 
"[We wanted] a coherency of a message," said Kreider. 


"Ideally, the protesters would message out because a num­have been more focused." ber of lecture attendees were Still. Krieder said that the surprised and informed by PSA succeeded in getting its the PSA's information. 
I 

Wednesday, October 25, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Saint Mary's performs mock presidential debate 

KRISTINE KAAI/The Observer Saint Mary's mock debate participants discussed campaign when they represented each of the presidential candidates Tuesday night. 
Men's Basketball Walk-On Tryouts ­
Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
At the Main Arena (Joyce Center) 
8:00 PM 
•Bring your gear ready to practice 
•Practice will be run by Head Coach Mike Brey and the Irish Staff 
•Any questions please call the office at 1-6225 
(Qpy SHOP 
Lafortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPV 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am· to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
By KATIE MILLER News Writer 

Presidential candidates George W. Bush. Al Gore and Halph Nader were represented in a debate sponsored by Student Academic CounciI and the Political Science Club Tuesday night in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. Colleen McCarthv and Michelle Nagle spoke for the Democratic Party; Christina Phillips and Holly James the Republican Party; and Katie Poynter and Maureen Capillo the Green Party. 
A panel of five professors. Marc Belanger, David Stefancic, Susan Vance, Patrick Pierce, and Marie Doyle. took turns asking the candidates questions which were responded to in a rotat­ing order. 
The first question was envi­ronmentally related: Bill Clinton is setting aside Alaska. but George W. Bush wants to drill for oil. The republicans 
responded  first  and  the  
democrats  countered  the  
republicans statement.  

"We need to protect the environment for generations to come. We must protect our land from exploitation. Instead of taking our resources, we need to use what we already have," said Nagle. 
Cheney voted against drilling for oil in Wyoming, his home state, said McCarthy. 
According to Poynter and Capillo, the Green party does not see drilling in Alaska as a solution to the energy crisis. They emphasized the impor­tance in working with what we have. The republicans also rebutted. 
The next question dealt with tax surplus. 
"Cnder the Clinton/Gore administration, 22 million new jobs were created. We believe it is in the best interests to eliminate the national debt, promote economic growth, save Medicare and social security. We want :to give tax cuts to working families and increase health insurance," said Nagle and McCarthy. 
"Both republicans and democrats will tell you that 

Are your copy projects overtaking all of the time in your work schedule? The Copy Shop in the Lafortune Student Center can ease your workload in ajiffy. We can handle any material you need 


copied: manuals, flyers, newsletters, sell sheets, postcards, virtually 
anything you want. Free up yom time and let us do the copying for you. 
We're the copy experts ready to lend you our helping hands! 
High Volume Copying Color Copying, Scanning & Printing Binding/ Tabs/ Laminating/ Fax Service Newsletters/ Reports/ Business Cards Complete Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! Quality Copies, Quicklyr 
www.CopyShopND.com 
Copyright 2000 • All Rights Reserved• 10/00 
there wiJl be a large tax sur­plus-there is no surplus. Our bridges, roads, hospitals. and schools need repairs. If there is a surplus, fix those," said Poynter. 
The republicans disagreed with this. 
"l believe families should be allowed to spend their money, we should allow families to receive tax cuts across the board," said Phillips. 
Next, the candidates debat­ed the use of educational vouchers. 
"The vouchers take money from public schools and give to private schools. Inner city schools suffer because educa­tion funding comes from local taxes. All children deserve a good education," said Capillo. 
The republicans favor the vouchl'r system. 
"It will make public schools compete with private. If schools cannot use their money wisely, we cau give the option to send children to other schools," said Phillips and James. 
The democrats oppose the 

use of vouchers. 
"Draining public schools of funding where its needed the most is not effective. We need to target schools that are fail­ing. We need to invest in schools instead of giving up," said Nagle and McCarthy. 
Issues facing foreign policy were debated. Stefancic asked, "What is nation build­ing, and should we be involved?" 
"We have an obligation to other nations. We encourage democracy. Foreign engage­ment and a prudent increase in military spending are cru­cial to promote world prosper­ity," said Nagle and McCarthy. 
"We should work with other nations to achieve this. It is not something the U.S. should dictate on its own," said Poynter and Capillo. 
The conclusive question dealt with the ongoing welfare reform. 
"With the first wave of wel­fare reform completed, how should the federal government take the next step, what should states be relied on for?" asked Pierce. 
The democrats want welfare to be inclusive. 
The Green Party offered a different perspective into reducing the number of Americans on welfare. 
The republicans attributed the need for welfare to a lack of skills and the green party rebutted their statement. 
With the conclusion of the panels questions. each party gave a final statement. 
According to the green party, half of all voters to dont vote. The participation of the green party gives voters a third option when voting. 
The republicans expressed their interest in partisanship and accomplishing all of their goals. 
Gore's experience in the capital, belief in a womans right to choose, campaign finance reform, and the bal­ancing of the budget were rea­sons the democrats felt they deserved the votfl. 
The candidates then answered questions from the audience. 
They dealt with issues sur­rounding gay marriages, effectiveness of voucher sys­tem, and the participation· of Americas youth at the voting polls. 
The mock republican and democratic candidates partic­ipated in the debate as part of the political science club. 
The green party representa­tives were from peacemakers. Participating students found the debates challenging. yet enjoyed the chance to inform their fellow students of the various parties platforms. 
"It was really exciting and intimidating," said James. "It was a heavy responsibility especially since some of the people here tonight were not very informed about the can­didates." 
"We hope we made an impact," said Phillips. "It's hard because some people are very informed on some issues and not at all on others." 
Representatives from the green party enjoyed offering a third option to voters. 
"I feel safe in saying its hap­pening on the local level. Nader starts on the bottom level and works his way up, instead of the opposite," said Capillo. 
got news? 1-5323. 

Expectant mother oftwins with one year old child seeks child care assistance in Granger Good Salary, Monday-Friday Call Jasmin 277-5106 
ii~~
onlyat -=-.~ 
Sminutes~ 
from 0UTPCIST 
Campus J•Mif 
CompetJtlve In e!/flry ..nu 


Call 259-iooo for more details 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
:================================================================================================================-= 
l(>cal candidates hold panel, discuss campaign issues 
. Eldred questions can­didates on women's an<ll education issues 
By MIKE CONNOLLY News \ilricer 
Wh ~n College president Marilou Eldrnd askPd local candidates how tbo govemmr;nt coulc promote women's college and wonwn's education, she hoped she would rncoi'ie an enthusiastic endorsement of wom( n's education. Instead the five candi­datt~ in Tu1)sday night's political panel at St. Joseph's Catholic Church in South Bend seemed confused by the question and otfon•d vague answers about the govern­nwnt's role in educating women. 
"I 01rtai11lv bcliovo women should be well cduc;i.ted and have every opportunity that m1)11 have," said Mike l)vorak the incumbent state rnprnsm1tativH from the 8th District. Dvorak also said, however, tha.i because both 1he wonmn's collcg(lS in Indiana (Saint Mary' College and Saint Mary's of' the Woods in Terre I Iaute) "/ certainly believe hard work of the are p1ivate institutions, American peoplA," he

women should be well 
he said tho state gov­said.
educated and have every Broden and Zirkle both 
cmmnnt wouldn't give cxtr/J. programs or opportunity that said that the government funding to the should raise the mini­
men have." 
wom,,n·s colleges. mum wage. Zirkle, who 
Eldred said she works in the prosecutor's wasn't looking for Mike Dvorak office, also said that the promises of funding incumbent state representative high crime rate in South 
but instead public sup­
port for women's col­leges. 
"I guess I would have hoped there would have 'JCen more enthusiastic support for col­lege for women because that is my passion," she said. "It's more a matter of a public statement about the value of women's col­leges We don't need more programs, we just need our officials to speak out in favor of women's collcgp,5 more often." 
Eld red was one of three members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities involved with the panel discussion. Lou Nanni. the executive assislant to the presi­dent at Notre Dame, moderated the two­hour discussion while Notre Dame sociology professor Father Leonard Chorbot asked ques:ions of the candidates along with Eldred and Fred Everett, who works in the ollicc of family life for tbe diocese of Soutl1 BemWort Wayne. 
James Ehrhard, a candidate for the state legislature in Lhe 6th District, was the only otJicr candidate to respond to Eldrcd's ques­tion. But rather than talk about women's collc~:es, the 1999 Notre Dame Law School graduate focused on improving high school education and 
encouraging more studcnl5 to go 
tocoll,\ge. 
"If we don't 1\ducat!i our chil­dren in high school and give them the ,,pportunity to gain the knm,lcdgc rmcessary for college, tlmy won't want to go to college," Lhn :25-ycar-old republican said. "Kids shouldn't just try to pass I­Step [a standardized testing pro­gram in Indiana) and graduate, they should try to lean as much as possible and try to gel into the b,-st rnllq~(1s possible." 
The other three candidates, Tony Zirkle, running against Dvor,i.k for his seal from the 8th District, John Broden, a state sen­ate 1:a11didate from the 10th District and Chris C:hocola. a Ilouse of Hcprcsentatives candi­dale from the third district, clPdinnd to answer Eldrcd's quPs­
Uon. 
Other 1•ducation issues, hownv­cr, did spark a dL-;cussion among the ,:andidates. Hcpublicans Ehrhard and Chocola both sup­ported school vouchers as a way to o for parents a choice in school-; for their children. 
"It's not about rich people :-;endmg their children to privalc schools," Chocola said. "They already dD that. !l's their choice. We_ ne~id to give everyone that chorre. 
Dvorak, however, said that 
vouchers would only undennine the public school system. 
lie said that the voucher program was originally created as a "union busting mea­sure" and that the government shouldn't "undPrmine the foundation of public educa­tion." 
Each of the five candidates praised the construction of Ivy Tech in South Bend to give vocational education tu citizens that cannot attend college. 
Tho candidates also agreed, however, that more work m1edcd to be done to improve Uw lives of the people in their districl'i. 
"Many pMple in thi'i room have had the benefit of a college education but that isn't for everyone," Dvorak said. "VnskiUed jobs are gone. We net>d to create job training prog~~uns Lo give everyone the skills they need. 
Chocola said keeping the economy strong will help all Americans. He disputed the idea that the gap is widening bctwm~n the rich and the poor and instead said both rich and the poor are gaining wealth at the same rate. 
"Evmyone is pushed up 
a little bit thanks to the 
Bend is preventing the 
area from flourishing economically. He promised to fight crime if he was elected. 
With Chocola's, Braden's and Ehrhard's opponents absent from tbe discussion, there were few attacks and the debate mostly stuck to the issues. Zirkle, however. occa­sionally attacked Dvorak's voting record while Dvorak defended it saying that Zirkle did not have all his facts straight. 
Chocola took the opportunity to point out his opponent's absence at the discussion. Representative Tim Roemer was unable to attend tbe discussion because he was voting on several bills in Congress, Tuesday. 
Chocola, however, said Hoerner is rarely in Indiana regardless of whether or not Congress is in session. 
"The only reason to stay in Washington [when Congress isn't in session] is to talk to Washington lobbyists," Chocola said. "J think the lobbyists should come here if they want to talk to the representative." 
Chocola promised to live in Indiana and commute to Washington when Congress was in session if he were elected. 

All New: All Yours: All Free 
MadAdz vuelcolnes 
University of Notre Dame 
• All local candidates claim pro-life stance, differ on death penalty 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
News Writer 

All five local candidates claimed to be pro-life at Tuesday's panel discussion but nearly all of tbem defined pro-life in a dif­ferent way. 
State senate candidate John Broden, state legislature candidate James Ehrhard and state legislature candidate Mike Dvorak each said they opposed abortion, euthanasia and the death penalty. 
"Every single vote I have made in the legislature has been pro-life and every single vote I have made has been anti­death penalty," Dvorak said. 
House of Representatives candidate Chris Chocola said he supported the death penalty but wanted to ban abortion and euthanasia. State legislature candidate Tony Zirkle, who is running against Dvorak and said he had the endorsement of Indiana Right to Life, supports the death penalty, abortion in some circum­stances but opposes euthanasia. 
Chocola acknowledged the apparent 
contradiction in supporting the death penalty and opposing abortion. 
"If you create a life you need to be responsible for it, but if you take a life you have to be responsible for it," said the republican challenger for Tim Hoemcr's seat in the House. 
Ehrhard proposed setting up a system that "encouraged adoption" as opposed to abortion. 
"If we can give women in a crisis preg­nancy an [adoption) option they arc com­fortable with, then we have done our jobs," the republican said. 
Zirkle said that abortions should only be legal if the life of the mother is in danger or in cases of rape or incest. Abortions related to rape, however, should be pre­formed immediately not six months into the pregnancy, he said. 
While he supports the death penalty, Zirkle also said the current system is seri­ously flawed. He said that the death penalty is just because it is mandated in the Bible, but also said that only when evi­dence is 100 percent certain should the state use capital punishment. Ile said there should be at least two or three ey(1­witnesses and 72 judges who must vote unanimously for a man to be put to death. This would make capital punishment extremely rare. 
Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Students to register by terlllinal, not phone this spring 
By JASON McfARLEY 
Assistant News Edttor 
J\ temporary rcgbtralion center in the basement of thf' Ilesburgh library will replace lhc current Direct Arcess Hegistration by Telephone (l)Atrl1 sy:,icm as Notre Dame's pri­mary means or class registration, University officials announced Tu~day. The shill will take eUh,i this fall, a'i student,;; register for spring semester dasse, from Nov. 8 to Dec. 4. 
Those working clooely on the pro­ject admit that the change comes largely in response to in<'rP,a<;ed prob­leill5 with DAB.Tin the past year. 
"It hasn't been a disastrous prob­lem, but the phones have failed a number of times in the past two semesters." assistant registrar Don Steinke !:iaid of the rcgi.5tration system in place at the University since 1989. 
Since last fall, th!' Office of the Registrar ha.-; sr.en a sl.P.a.dy growtl1 in the number of' students frustrated with DART. In particular. students voiced r.onccm,;; about being kicked o[ the system while registering and often being unable to access it alto­gf'lher. 
St.cinkr. acknowleged that most of the systAm's pmblems were associat­ed with periods of heavy llse by stu­dents. He said the University has tried but been unsuco~ful maintaining a system that wouldn't be overloaded. 
"We could have tried the phones, but we didn't want to risk putting stu­dents in frustrating positions," said associate registrar Lora Spaulding. "There's not enough candles in the Grotto." 
Features cl1he new s}'Stem 
In t.cnns of how it will function, the registration center will operate much like DART, said llarold Pace, University registrar. The process will even keep the same acronym ­Direct Access Registration by Terminal -as its predecessor, he 
sai<l. 

The center will be locairo in Hoom C184 in the basement of the He<.burgh library and will foaturc 35 workstations, or tenninals, for stu­dents. At each tenninal is one of the wirelffi<i laptop computers domtAd by University alumni affiliated v.ith IBM. In the 0flke of the Hr.gistrar are an additional six terminals that have been used by students in the past a,;; an alternative to the telephone sys­tem. 
Ac{",onling to Pace, studPnts \-Vith a working knowledge of the pre\-ious system shouldn't experir.nce prob­lems in the reg6iration center. 
"A'i far as how everything works. the messages and instructions that you'll see on the computer screen are the same ones that you heard on the phone," Pace said. 
Students will still be assigned DART appointment times and P!Ns. Puce said that information mav be made available as early as today."He expects UART books with Spring 2001 class listings to be availablP by Friday. 
Also, as in the past., students will be allotted 15 minutes for regi'ltering once they've logged into the system. The time will be divided into two seven-and-a-half-minute segments. 
"Come back" times similar to the "call back" sessions used with wle­phone registration are scheduled from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. daily from Nov. 8 to Dec. l . Students \vi.th exemption forms or questions can come to the registration center from 8 a.m. to 8 
p.m. daily during the same time peri­od. 
Registration by tenninal won't sig­nal the complete replacement of reg­istration by telephone. Officials said phone registration will be made avail­able on a limited basis. 
DART phone lines won't be open during student appointment times at the registration center from 9 a.m. to 
4:45 p.m. weekdays from Nov. 8 to Dec. 4. The lines vvill be in place with limited access from 8 p.m. to mid­night Mondays through Thursdays and from Fridays at 8 p.rn. lo Sundays at 4 p.m. from Nov. 8 tn Dec. 1. 
"Bringing up the phones at night, there won't be the potential for an overload," Steinke said. 
But Pare stressr.d that what mused the registration change in the first place was the undependable nature of the telephone system. 
"Although we're providing the phone system, students shouldn't rely on it to work," he said. "Students shoulrln't depend on tt as thr.ir main sow"Cc of reg6iration." New s}'Stem concems 
·while the new registration center has put University administrators' fears to rest, it's raised a few concerns from student,;. 
Sophomore Maria Mahon expressed some reservations about ooooming accustomed to a new sys­tem. 
"l understand that there were some complications with the phones, but I worry having to use the computers," said Mahon. a lili.1ory major. 
Anticipating such concerns, Pace said his office has workf'.d to maim the new process very similar to the old system. In addition, no fewer than one UniVC'rsity staff nmmber and three student V\•orkers will be present in the registration a>nter tn offer a'i5lstance. 
Mahon, who said her past experi­ences with phone registration have been positive, also has misgi,.,ings about the sytern being available on only a limited basis. 
"It would be good to have more of an option," she said. For sophomore Linda Melchor, the change prompts other questions. 
''I'm a little scared that when my appointment time comes I won't make it," said Melchor, a government major. 
According to Pace, appointment times are scheduled so that they do not interfere with students' courses and mme at lea,;;l 10 minutes after a cla.ss. 
'lnere is also no need for students tn arrive Vf'ry early at the regi.stration center, he said. At their assignment appoin1ment. time. student,;; will be ushered intn the terminal5. 
"There's absolutely no benefit to arriving early," Pace said. . 
Both Mahon and Mekhor believe that the new process may prove somewhat inconvenient. 
Pace agreed. 
"It's the easiest thing in the world tn pick up the phone in your room or apartment. In that respect, this change will be an inconvenience," he said. 
But Pace hop<'s that the user­friendliness of the new system will quell some apprehensions about it. He said besides the ease of the sys­tem, students will also benefit from seeing their schedules as thcy'rn building them. 
Tue.sday, aft.er the relea'ie of an e­mail announcing the change to the student body, Pace said complaint'i streamed into his office. Many worries ca.me from students studying abroad and from students worried about space limitations in the registration oonter, 
The regi.5trar said student<; in study abroad programs will have their class registration taken c.are of through the Office of International Studies. 
Other ~illdents who are away from canipus on University business as well as disabled students who may not be able to access the regi.5tration center can contact the Office of the Registrar, Pace said. 
Space and terminal availability shouldn't be a problem, according to Steinke. 
He said appointment times are scheduled so that the number of stu­dents intending to register doesn't exceed the 35 available terminals. 
At 33, the sophomore class has the highest average number of students registering during any given 15­minute period. The junior and senior classes have an average of 28 stu­dents schedul!ld to register during each session, while the freshman class has 20. 
Only a temporary method 
In some students' call for a more convenient system, they questioned how far into the future a move lo a Web-based registration loom'>. 
It's a project that the University has been making strides toward this semester but L<; not yet rnady to b~\ implemented. said Pam Johnson, sr.nior a5sistant registrar. 
"llight now we're not in a position to have it or to test it on a student group," Johnson said ofWeb registra­tion, noting tl1at students should not get it confused with the terminal reg­.istration they use thl,; fall. 
Johnson said that University soft­ware has already undergone the sev­eral rounds of testing and changes required to usher in Web regi.5tration. 
"It's been difficult to test, but tl1e Office of Infonnation Technologil's is working on it and tying up loose ends," shf': said. 
Johnson and others in the Office of the Rc¢strar stressed that registra­tion by terminals is only a temporary sySt.cm, but they said it is too early to tell if reg6iration over tho Internet or any other sy~tem would be in place for the course drop-add period in January or for registration in the spring. 
Officials, however, are investing their resources in developing a Web­based system and are certain that the phone system won't return as the University's major means of class reg­istration. 
'The important thing to remember is that the regi.5tration center is only temporary. For right now, we're going to do everything we can to make sure that students' regi.5tration needs are taken care of in the best way possible," Pace said. 
Salsa Ni[ht Every Thursday 
September 28 El Son De Aqur  October 5th Freddy Kenton  October26 Benji  
y Los Ases Del Merengue  y Su Merenbanda  
November2  November30  December 7th  
El Son De Aquf  El Son De Aquf  Fuerza y Alma  

The Club Landing• 1717 Lincolnway East• South Bend, IN. 
Wednesday, October 25, 2000
page 10 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
:ND law student creates after-school center for children 

+ Dream Center provides recre­ation for at-risk children 
By NICK SWEEDO 
News Writer 
During his first year at Notre Dame law school, Felipe Moreno decided to do something to help other people. 
"After a couple or months in law school, I realized that to con­tinue strong in my studies, I was going to have to be driven by what has drivfln me my wholn life -to serve others," said Moreno. now a third-year law student. 
Moreno decided to create a recreational place for at-risk children and families in the South Bend area. His r,reation, r,alled the Dream Center. is now opP-n to the community. 
The center will provide chil­dren in grades 6 through 12 a place to go after school to do arts and crafts or to get help with homework. There is also a week­ly reading skills program for children, and adults can take classes in English computer skills and citizenship. All activi­ties are free of charge. 
Originally from Los Angeles. Moreno was the sixth of seven children and Urn first to graduate college. After graduating from Stanford, ho rnturned home and wanted to help his community. 
"I set up a community center and a medical clinic lbcf'orel," Moreno said. "I realized that a lot of the set-up process dealt with law. so I decided to go to law school." 
Throughout his three years at Notre Dame, Mornno has gained the admiration and support of both his peers and faculty. 
"Felipe is a marvelous example to Notre Dame students in the manner' that. he has found needs in the local community for at­risk kids and has developed a program tailored to meeting those needs," said James Hoerner, t.lrn director of Community Relations who also taught Felipe. "I commend him for his ability to handle the acad­emic rigors of a third-year law student while at the same tirnr~ initiating a comprehensive pro­gram for these at-risk kids." 
The Dream Center is located on 3615 South Michigan St. next to Calvary Temple, which bought the facility. Notre Dame and Hethel College donated comput­ers to the center. 
Showing their support, O'Neill llall designated the Ctrnter as their main service site this year. Anyone interested in volunteer­ing at the Center may call 291­5230, extension 75. 

~~MC students spend lt>reak in Appalachia 
By KATIE MILLER 
News Wricer 
Some tanned and some relaxed, but 10 Saint Mary's students spent their fall break i11 Appalachia in a service project sponsored by the SURV center. 
The students traveled to Clintwood, Virginia, where they painted houses and min­gl c d with Clintwood resi­dents. 
Everyday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., the stu­dents painted 
a house in 

"One ofthe highlights of the house 
the Clintwood 
from our

the trip was comparing
community 
first day of 

that was in the house from our first 
work to 
need of 

day ofwork to the last." the last. 
rnpair. After 
We trans­
pa.in ting, they 
formed it 

½ould often Jodie Badgley 
into some­

help clean freshman t h i n g 
ronment," said junior Shanna Connor. "Everyone was really friendly, we were immediate­ly accepted," she said. 
This is not time Saint Mary's students have served in the Appalachia program. According to Kors. in previ­ous years, a Saint Mary's stu­dent from the area has acted as a tour guide for students. 
"A sister of the Holy Cross was also a link to the housing project in Clintwood," Kors added. 
"One of' the highlights of the 
trip was 
comparing 
the house and also speak with many of the resi­d,Jnts. 
"We met coal miners and a irountain singer," said Sister Lnda Kors, director of volun­tocr service and the SUHV r,1mter. According to Kors, the rn ajority of Clintwood resi­d,~nts arc somehow affected 
l.J:r coal mining. 

While working, the students stayed in the Dorothy Baker house, which was located next to the church in C.int wood. Living and work­ing together, students learned a lot more about each other. 
"Our group came together n,ally well. As a group, we 
h..1dn 't known each other pl'ior to the trip, but we bond­ed. We worked as a family," Sc.id Connor. "We spoke with a lot of people about the envi­
beautiful," said fresh­man Jodie Badgley. 
Students who participated also said they gained insight into a different way of lifo through their service. 
"The planned activities were a lot of fun. We learned a lot about the local culture; how people there live in the past. present, and future," said Hadgley. 
"In college. it is very easy to get wrapped up in our world here without realizing what is out there," she said. "One day while we were painting. the homeowner got teary-eyed about the difference we were making in her life. It was very emotional." 

Kors said she looks forward lo future service projects. "Next semester. we'll go to Tennessee." 

The Faces Of Holy Cross 

New Candidates at Moreau Seminary 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER :-W. 
THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/~vocation 

PAX PROTEST 

MOLLY WALSHfThe Observer 

Shawn Storer, Ben Peters and Paul Graham (1-r) of Pax Christi protested Lockheed-Martin's presence on campus Tuesday. Lockheed-Martin held an information session at the Morris Inn. 
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS HUST SERVICES'. TUITION FINANCING, 
« ' ., ' 
While TIAA-CREF invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance 
Wednesday, October 25, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 11 
ENGLAND 

Magazine reports Concorde crash cause 
like this. 

TIAA-CREF has delivered impressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. 
In our CREF Growth Account, one of many CREF vari­able annuities, we combine active management with enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have two ways to seek out performance opportunities­helping to make your investments work twice as hard. 


This approach also allows us to adapt our investments to different market conditions, which is especially important during volatile economic times. 

Combine this·team approach with our low expenses and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from the competition. Call and find out how TIAA-CREF can work for you today and tomorrow. 
1.800.842.2776 
www. tiaa-cref. org 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
The metal strip suspected or having caused the J.uly 25 crash of the Concorde outside Paris was made not of soft metal alloy but of much harder titanium, an aviation magazine reported. 
The relative hardness of the metal would have increased the destructive power of the strip, whi.ch was apparently run over by the supersonic jet during its takeoff roll. said the author of the article in this week's editions of London-based Flight International maga­zine. 
The article said the metal strip in question, believed to be part of a repaired thrust 
Flight International quoted the maker of the thrust rnverser as saying the strip was not an original equip­ment manufacturer part, and said it was still unknown who had 0tted the metal strip. 
No one from Houston-based Continental was immediately available tu comment on the Flight International report. 
Continental, which is the target of a French lawsuit blaming it for the crash, said last month in a statement that it had not been defini­tively determined that the metal piece was from its plane, but that a visual inspection suggested it could have come from Continental's aircraft. 
Debris from the tire explo­sion apparently punctured 
the fuel 
tank of the 

"ffit had been a soft New York­
reverser on 
b o u n d 

a alloy, it would have been 
Concorde.

Continental much less likely to cause 
Trailing a
Airlines' 

that degree of damage." huge flame,
McDonnell 
the needle­
Douglas 
nosed jet

DC-10, had aviation magazine article 
crashed
b e e n turned over to the British and French working group overseeing the crash probe. 
The strip, left on the run­way at Charles de Gaulle Airport, is thought to have caused one of the supersonic jet's tires to explode, setting off a catastrophic chain of events that brought down the Concorde, killing all 109 peo­ple aboard and four on the ground. 
"If it had been a soft alloy, it would have been much less likely to cause that degree of damage," the article's author, Flight lnternational's operations and safety editor David Learmount, told The Associated Press on Tuesday. He cited officials close to the investigation. 
moments 
later. 
French investigators have said part of a "metal wear" strip included in the thrust reverse assembly on the right-wing engine was missing from a Continental plane and had characteristics that appeared identical to the metal piece taken from the runway after the accident. 
An Air France spokesman in Paris declined to comment on the Flight International report, referring the matter to the crash's investigating committee. A call to France's Accident and Inquiry Office, known as the BEA, was not immediately returned. 
All British Airways and Air France Concordes remained grounded as the investigation into the crash continued. 
0 Log on 

www.campusi.com 
8 Enter existing 


email address. 

I I I 
ii 
Ensuring the future for those who shape if~ 
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. 1. TIAA-CREF expenses reflect the waiver of aportion of the Funds' investment management fees, guaranteed until July 1, 2003. 2. Source: Morningstar, Inc. 6/30/00, tracking 939 average large-cap growth annuity funds. 3. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shovm above. The investment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be mere or less than their original price upon redemption. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, lnc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual fonds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TI.M-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIM-CREF 08/03 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O Box Q. Nom Dame, IN 46556 024 S0tnh Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
AslT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Christine Krnly Bnan Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabcrh Lmg 
ADVfll.TISINC MANAGER: Par Peters An DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila S~iTEMS AJJMINISfRATOR: Mike Gunvillc WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam T urncr CONTROLLER: Bob Wood, GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OH!CE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO .. . ...631-7471 FAX............. ................................. 631-6927 AIJIIERTISING .................................. 631-6900/!\840 
observer@darwin.cc.n d.edu Eo:TOR IN CHlEF.. ...................................... 63 l-4542 M~NAGING EDITORIAssT. ML.. ...............631-4541 BUilNESS OrncE.. ..................................... 631-5313 NE.VS................................................... .......631-5323 
observer.obmews.l@nd.edu VlfWl'OINf... ..............................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu  
SCJ:NL .......... ..  ......................... 631-4540  
observer.scene. l@nd.edu  
SAJ)IT MARv's.  ...............631-4324  
observer.smc. l@nd.edu  

Ptt:no........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINlSTRATORL .............631-8839 
THI: OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at bttp:liob,erver.,id.edu for daily upc ates of campus news. sports. features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
/:URFTO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
lldvcrtise for policies 

online feature., for spe­
,.nd rates of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
,irchivcs to search for 

about The Observer 
wides published after 

ro meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POUCIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements. is not governed by polici"" of the administration of either insti rution. The Observer reserves the righr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos.:iblc. Unsigned cdicorials represenr the opinion of rhc maJorityof the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, le11ers and columns present the views of tile authors and 001 ncccs.arily those of The Ob,ervcr. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Lctrers to che Edicor must be signed and must include contact information. 
()_ucttiom regarding Ob1m;rr polici~J ,hou!tl I,,, dir,ct­ed 1, Editor in CbitfMifu Connolly, 
To study abroad is a ditlicult decision. If you are considering this option solely to procure a parent subsidy while you do the Europe thing. let me save you the trip. Give me five minutes, I'll give you the continent. First off, everything is Josh Kirleybeautiful. Everything is expen­sive and everything Swift's is old. As for Confederate European cities, they're all born from the same general pattern. Each city has a river running through it. It usually bisects the town, but it doesn't have to. In every town, you'll have a church -a 
·really big, really old, really impressive church. Go see it. [t's free. If there are several, go to the one that's set on a major square. It's the one closest to Tourist Information; that's the red lower case "i" on the smudged crease of your disproportionate, useless, impossible to fold, pocket-size map. 
After the church. go to the tall thing. Every city has one. Lots of times, you'll luck out. The tall thing will be the church, like in Zurich. Bonus. Other times. it's just a tower -like in Bologna. The tall thing in town isn't free, but you can count on it not having an elevator. Which calls to mind another hazardous by-product of the European adventure: unintended exercise. 
Now. a lot of times, once you get on top of the tall thing, you'll notice an even taller thing. Don't panic. They'll let you climb that one too, usually for a propor­tionately steeper fare. First. take a pic­ture of it. Then, climb the taller thing and take a picture of the original edifice. Your friends will think you did it on pur­pose. 1think it's called "perspective". 
If you go to Europe, hostels are key. They're small and cheap, but also dirty. Hostels are like a sketchy, smelly micro­cosm of Freshman 0. That is, an inter­minable sequence of contrived, perfunc­tory palaver in which neither person cares about the answer. Freshman year, it was an incessant drone of "What's your major? Where are you from?" 
Over there, there's a slight variation. You see. every hostel has the same kid ­

one that is just a little too eager to make 
friends. He's usually a recent college 
grad, clean-cut trying to look like he's 
not. and he alwavs smiles. 
He is in every hostel in every town. Without fail, as I walk in the door, trying to discern the broken English of the checkout person, he crashes in with an overly friendly handshake. "Hi, I'm __, but all my friends call me Ace." First. I have that disease where the con­tact of another person's palm against mine momentarily impairs my hearing and memory. I have never, not once in 20 years, caught the name of a person as they introduce themselves. Second. the nickname is self-assigned. No friend would take the time to christen him "Ace" or "Stroker" because he has no friends. Regardless of your interest, out comes his hometown and alma mater. The town is one he lives an hour from and has visited once. The college is one you're vaguely familiar with. You proba­bly glanced at the brochure on the trip from the mailbox to the garbage, not that you could ever name the state it's in. All the same, you give the trademarked nod as he says it. 
Here. I mindlessly reciprocate with my "Big 2". Both are tags. Now. desk-leach will mention every person he has ever encountered with any association to my hometown or college. I will never under­stand this game. After I shoot down sev­eral names. he comes across one I think I might recognize from an English or his­tory class. 
"You k11ow Jim O'Connell?" "Hell yeah. I know Jim O'Connell. We had history together." 
"Wow." 
"Yeah." 

"Small world. isn't it." 
"Yep." 

"Well. I saw him really drunk one time." 
"How 'bout that. Me too. Wow." 
"Yeah." 
"Yeah." 
"That Jim." 
"Yeah." 

"Big drinker, that Jim." 
"Yup. Big drinker." 
"Yeah, well ... " 
Here, both parties will generally exag­gerate their closeness to and af11nity for Jim O'Connell. Regardless. I don't like this guy any more or less because we know the same person. Now, the cross­examination. 
"You go to Hillman. right?" 
"You bet. The mauve and blue. The 
Harvard of southwestern Kentucky. The 
Fightin' Incestuous Bulldogs. Go Dogs! 
Why?" 

"Yeah. Well, uh. a guy I used to hang around with back in the neighborhood got a full ride to play football there. I think he was your year. and it's a pretty small school. you ever run into a um, uh, Mike Green?" This is where it gets fun. You see, "cool guy" doesn't want to come off like he doesn't know my popular and imaginary friend. 
So, he'll repeat the name twice slowly, rubbing his chin between utterances. "Mike Green ... M-i-k-e G-r-e-e-n. You know, I think I do know him." Then he makes like a psychic friend and gelc; as vague as possible. "Yeah. Mike Green. Football player, right. 
"Yeah." 
"Big guy?" 
"Pretty big." 
"Brown hair?" 
"Blonde." 
"Brownish. Dirty blonde." 
"Yeah, I guess so." 
"Yeah. Mike. Right. Good guy. Good ball player." 
"He hasn't played since he got hurt freshman year." "Oh. Yeah, right." "You know him?" "Yeah. Well, know him to say hi to him. 
You know. We hung out in different cir­cles. I was kind of a party-er." 
Never tell the guy that Mike Green doesn't exist. Ruins the game. I guess what I'm saying is "Study abroad" -it's fun. 
Joshua Kirley graduated from Notre Dame in 1999. He currently teaches high school algebra and American history in Florida, 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 

: ~ 
OUR RECORDS SHOW 
MY MOTTO IS, YOU
PLEASE I I MERELy 
t
THAT YOU USED THE 
u 
CAN'T SPELL "WHO 
;;
ORDERED GROCERIES 
C
INTERNET f OR 
.. 
CARES?" WITHOUT
"'
PE R&ONAL REASONS. 
~
MIGHT HAVE MORE 
;; ~ 
TIME FOR WORKING. 
.:'. 

l 
'O 
~
. 
::, 
0 
0 
0 
" Q •0 
~ 

____...__________.. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You cannot shake hands with a clenched 
fist." 

Indira Ghandi Indian politician 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Wednesday, October 25, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
Ready, ready, ready to run 
So what did I do for fall break? I ran in the 2000 Chicago marathon and boy, what an exciting experience' I recom­mend it to all. And let me say congratula­tions to the other Notre Ilame runners who were there too. 
Wait un momento 
Anna Barbour 
-how can torture be fun? Perhaps I'm one of those people 
Get a Life
who is into the pain scene? I'm really not. I can't explain ft11ly why it's such an incredible experience but I will attempt the task. 
First of all. I wasn't the only one to thruw down some cash to run 26.2 miles through the streets of Chicago and I mean all the streets of Chiwgo -the East side, the West side. the North side. the South side, Chinatown, little Italy and on and on. Aside from myself and my dad, 33,168 other people signed up to run 26.2 miles through the streel,;; of Chicago. Every state and 80 something foreign countries were represented. lljust happened to be the biggest marathon in North America, quite possibly the entire world; I don't know, but there were a lot of running fools lined up at 7:30 a.m. on Oct. 22 in this "millennium" year. 
But I digress, to run a "fun" marathon you've got to know a few things. First, you must arrive early, at least an hour and a half before start time. You need time to put Vaseline all over your body, and when I say all over your body, I do not exagger­ate. Put it all over your body; any place that you miss is targeted to become a minor laceration or burn area. You will bleed; you will chafT; it will hurt. Stretch and warm up; this is wise, but unless you are really out there to sprint your way to the end of the 26.2 miles, you may not want to jog around before the race begins. Keep in mind, you will have 26.2 milr.s to get out all the stiffness and kinks in your body that you had before the race -you will also have those 26.2 miles to bring in new stiffness and kinks. 
So you're early, ready to go, stretched and vaselined. Are you planning on taking a while to complete the 26.2 miles, more than three hours? Then you also may want to consider a water bottle and a walkman as well as over-the-counter pain relievers and caffeine boosters. As Clint Eastwood once said, ''a man has got to know his limitations," and buddv, this is never more true than when running 26.2 miles. !\ow, luckily, the day of the Chicago marathon was perfect weather-wise, and it is also the fastest course in North America because it is the relatively flattest course. You can't beat conditions such as these. 
When the weather conditions are less than perfect, when the course is not flat, the pain and preparation time will increase exponentially. Chicago has a great marathon course but lots of people know this, lots of people. To ensure fluidi­ty in the race, officials like to place people by the time it will take them to finish the race. 
A problem develops, though, when there is a cut-off in the amount of racing time allowed. The Chicago marathon has to be completed in six hours or no medal. At least, it was a rule before the race began and other marathons will have their own cut-off times. The famous Boston marathon has a cut-off time of 4 hours and 30 minutes. When your finish time is going to put you in the back of thousands of people, it will take about 30 minutes to get to the start after the gun has gone off and you will have lost that half-hour of running time. And believe me, when running 26.2 miles, you can use all the time they allow. Yet, there is a solution for the" inexperienced or slow runner: Make note of the official's desire for order, then go as far forward in the crowd of runners as you can. Hey, you never know exactly when you will finish, so if you can get to where the three-hour runners arc located, more power to you. 
Another important concept one must grasp is that of the pace. The gun has gone off, you're in the front of the pack, you're all excited but for goodness sakes, don't forget that this is 26.2 miles not 2 miles. It is catastrophic to speed out at the beginning like it's only going to take you two hours to finish. Unless, of course, you plan on running 5-minute miles and " never letting your heels touch the ground for all of the 26.2 miles. It's all just a mat­ter of proper pre-race strategy; some decide to use a slower pace-plan than others. . 
So you're running and it's great, you feel great, it's great to be alive, every part of the race is lined by happy, cheering, wonderful people. But keep in mind, that by the 17th mile or so, racing officials will cheat and make the remaining miles longer than is correct; also, the lines of happy, cheering people will become annoying. You will think, what the heck do they have to be happy about anyways? Why don't they try running instead ofjust standing there? Oh my god, is that guy eating a hamburger? What nerve, right in front of my face. And you will begin to change inside. But then, only 0.2 miles 
will lay ahead, which will be more than 
0.2 miles because they cheat, but it's okay, play their little game. 
You see the finish, you feel the only energy left inside you, the crowds arc wild, you'll want to look cool; go ahead, 
.sprint in. Cross the finish line. Morn 
happy faces will greet you with a medal 
and a blanket. They offer you food; they 
even offer you beer. Wow, these arc 
beautiful people; you will want to jump up 
and down. You are the bomb. Except you 
won't be able to jump up and down, you 
mav even have to hurl all over the 
ground. But it's all good; you know that 
for the next week, you'll be so sore that 
no one can make you do one bit of exer­
cising or an}ihi.ng you don't want tu do. I 
mean did they run a marathon? Maybe 
they should try running a marathon. and 
then they won't be bothering you with 
stupid assignments and things to do. 
All in all, running a marathon is inde­scribable; a fait accomple; something that everyone who has trained can and should do. Remember that training is key. Unless you have years and years of experience, without training, you will die -slowly and painfully. 
Now, I'm ready to listen to what other people did over fall break. 
Anna Barbour is a junior theology and 
pre-med major. Her column appears 
every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Learn to listen 
I realize that there is an inherent danger in writing about such a touchy subject around here, but that doesn't really bother me. What bothers me is how disgusted I am at the behavior of a single pro-lifer at the senator's speech yesterday morning. As cries of "what about abortion, what about abortion. Senator Lieberman?" fell from the balcony. I couldn't help but feel embarassed for the University and for the pro-life movement entirely. 
I'm actually pro-choice, but besides the occasional abortion clinic bomb­ing or idiot shouting from some balcony, I can respect a different point of view. Of course having the courage to stand up for a belief is nothing to be embarassed for. but it was too bad that the senator didn't start out with his point that when two parties disagree, it is wise to do so without any vindictiveness and also to disagree without being so hostile as to stop any chance of reaching agreement. 
A candidate's time to speak is not the time for dissenters to yell self­righteous comments, distracting from what the speaker is actually trying to say. Get in line, write a letter, try and change this country within the structures that are there -don't yell from the balcony like a coward. Flapping your mouth might get you media coverage, but I don't think the media can write the law. 
The senator was trying to talk about faith as an underlying foundation of society in a place where people with strong faiths go out and become adults who shape that society. But unfortunately, all that the media will pick up on is 50 seconds of yelling from the balcony. 
That's what bothers me most of all. It doesn't matter what a dissenter is protesting, but when the protest is not done in manner representative of the issue being protested, then what's the point? The antagonist protest is doomed to fail because all that the audience remembers is the hostility of that protest. Somehow I doubt that such a protest will break out about capital punishment when G.W. Bush speaks on campus. There are better ways to express disagreement than yelling from across the room. 
It's too bad my new friend in the balcony doesn't feel the same way. 
Jeremy Joslin 
Senior 
Siegfried Hall 
Oct, 24, 2000 



V I D 
en@ M E s 
page 14 Wednesday, Occobt:r 25, 2000 
DVD audio, digital c:ameras entertain technology addicts 
,\re CDs just not doing it for you anymore'? It is easy to find 
yourself constricted by the 74 minutes on a CD. Wbile tbe quality 
m glit be betler than on that old Cyndi Lauper tape in the closet, 
it's still not good enough. Luckily, there's a new hope -DVD 
aL <lio -that promises to blow away the good old CD in Harnbo­
swlc. 

iJVD audio. currently being developed by a 
hl•sl ol' electronics giants like Pioneer and Jeff Baltruzak 
P~.nasonic, features seven times the capacity 
ol' a CD. plus "multiple channels of' sound at 
hi~lrnr bit rate and sampling frequency." Short Circuits 
(Translalion: Juvenile's "Back that Thang Up" 
will rock your world like no time before wilh 
super-clear, heart-thumping bass.) 
To l'ind out jusl how this new DVD audio will enhance your lis­tening pleasure. check out www.howstuffworks.com. Too often it seems that people sit around. procrastinating from their work and wondering, "Dude, how does my 8-bit Nintendo work to bring me hundreds of hours of gaming enjoyment?" 
\ search at www.howstuffworks.com sadly yielded no informa­tion about the 8-bit Nintendo or the Nintendo Zapper, but the site hut volumes on some of the newer video game systems like Playstation 2 and Dreamcast, as well as the secrets behind e~ery­d1..y wonders like toilets and microwaves. Ilowever, a word ol w.1rning about www.howstulTworks.com. Due to extremely dt:tailcd descriptions of objects and sections on light sabers, this si·.e has been rated FNO (For Nerds Only). 
Speaking of Playstation 2, Sony will launch it this Thursday, Oct. 26. If you can scrap together $299 from recycling cans in Michigan like Kramer on "Seinfeld," critics say i1 will be well w Jrth your effort. 
l'laystation 2 features 128-bit graphics and will also play your audio CDs and DVDs. It supports Dolby Digital sound as well. As with most video game system debuts, th~re will be limited game offerings for Playstation 2 until Christmas. 
l'he most unique feature of Playstalion 2 is its capability to play all the old Playstation games as well. This aspect truly separates the console from most other systems like Dreamcast, which n•quire all new game investments. 
Waiting to buy Playstation 2 is definitely advantageous. The price has been driven up by a limited United States release. Sony will offer only half the amount of machines to the United States 011 Thursday than they originally planned. If Playstation 2 follows the usual video game system pattern, prices will drop dramati­cc.lly after the Christmas season. llowever, during the Christmas buying season, the console will surely have a Tickle-Me-Elmo h11steria surrounding it. 
·But make no mistake about it -Playstation 2 is a chick-mag­rnit. Knowing about new and very expensive technology makes you look smarl and will attract attention. And it will probably distract people from the fact that you could not possibly ever afford what you're talking about. Thus. the following tidbit. 
There is a digital camera called the Camedia C-211 Zoom that prints out pictures as soon as you Lake them. The camera. made by Olympus and Polaroid, stores the pictures on a card for trans­fer to your computer as well. 
Think about il: who really needs this camera? Most people take pictures of their family standing in front of some cheesy roadside landmark on their summer vacation. College students take pic­tL res of friends doing stupid things at parties. You hardly need a digital camera to do any of that. 
What may be more useful to those living in South Bend is some­tring f'or those who are hungry for quality radio stations. Since ti-is area is somewhat lacking in As a result, many people have tL med to the Internet to find their radio. To make that experi­ence morn enjoyable, there's a new accessory called the iHhythm tb1t plugs into your computer and sends wireless transmissions ul' Weh radio or MP3s to your stereo. 
The cost f'or the lHhythm is $129.95, pretty steep for something a $1.59 cord from Best Buy would do. But like that digital cam­era. wirnlcss is "cooler" and will make people like you more. 
Stay tuned l'or more technologies and smart-aleck comments 
a'Jnut them ... 

The l'iews e:r:pressed in this column are those ofthe author and not 11 <;1cessarily lhose ofThe ObsPrver. 

By MATT ORENCHUK 
Scene Video Game Reviewer 

The old saying goes that if 
it ain't broke, then don't fix 
it. Well, maybe the good 
people at Midway should 
have remembered that 
when they came out with 
"NFL Blitz 2001" for the 
Playstation. 

It is not that "Blitz 2001" 
is a bad game. But the 
problem is that it doesn't 
improve on "Blitz 2000," 
and in some areas, "2001" 
is actually a worse game 
than the original. 

Let's start by looking at what is really bad about "NFL Blitz 2001." The most impressive thing about a game when you play it for the l'irst time is the graph­ics. This is an area where "Blitz 2001" fails miserably. 
_ The players look pix­e!izcd. The grass on the playing field is a putrid green color. The logos and names on jerseys aren't clear. · 
The gameplay is another aroa that doesn't improve from "NFL Blitz 2000." The Playslation controller is hard to master. This is especially a problem with kickoff returns. When returning a kickoff, it is essential to be able to make razor-sharp jukes and turns. 
When playing with "Blitz 2001," it is hard to feel like you are slipping by some­one. Instead it feels more like you are going straight ahead. and the defender may tackle you, maybe not. That isn't the way a game like "Blitz 2001" should play. The whole premise of' the game is high-powered offense. Thus, the controls need to be precise in order for you to be able to run by your opponent. 
One thing that should be mentioned is that "NFL Blitz 2001" is a much better game on Nintendo 64. The gamcplay is much sharper, and the players and anima­tions are crisper. 
This is not to say that "NFL Blitz 2001" isn't a solid football game on the Playstation. It is a great deal of fun to play, espe­cially if you are competitive with your friends when it comes to video games ­the kind of player who spends many a late night sitting around the TV. hop­ing for one last score to defeat the evil opponent. 
The Artificial Intellige nee (AI) is one area that makes "NH, Blitz 2001" a lot or fun to play. The Al allows for the weakest of' players to take on the greatest player ever. 
Basically, the AI will stay off if a game is closely con­tested. But if one player starts to pull ahead, then the Al kicks in, making it easier for the behind team lo score, while making it harder for the winning team to score. 
This makes "Blitz 2001" a fun game for everyone to enjoy. The Artificial Intelligence means that every game will probably go down to the fourth quarter, and that someone will have to make a big play to win. This is a staple of "Blitz 2001," and ls the reason why the game is so popular. 
"NFL Blitz 2001" is not a bad game. but the bottom line is this: if' you don't own it, then you need to go pick it up. "Blitz 2001" is in the same must-have category as "Bond" and "Mario Cart." It is a fun game that brings out the competitive­ness in everyone. 
However, if you already own an earlier copy of "Blitz," lhen there is no need to go out and pick up this game. The only thing that this new version could possibly offer is an updated roster. 
If' you desperatnly need to play with Kurt Warner and the Hams. then go right ahead. But for $49.99, you'd be better off to save your money and play an older version of "NFL Blitz." 



-----.. ·-.. 

V I D M E s 

Wednesday, October 25, 2000 page 15 

By ADAM TURNER 
Scene Video Game Reviewer 
The start of the "NHL 2001" season is a time of action and excitement. Goalie Patrick Roy gets his skates sharpened up, ready to pass up Terry Sawchuk's record for wins by a goalie (447). Philadelphia·s Brian Boucher prepares to fall from grace. because his time in the spotlight is about up. 
Pittsburgh's Jarornir Jagr gets ready to prove once again why he is the greatest player in hockey, while the world continues to wonder why Washington's pitiful Peter Bondra is still playing at all. San Jose's Bryan Marchment and New Jersey's Scott Stevens both get psy­ched up to be goons, because in all fairness, they are goons. 
But the most important thing for hockey fans is the release of Electronic Arts' 
"NHL 2001" for the Sony Playstation. 
"NHL 2001" provides tons of new features, like the inclu­sion of expansion teams Columbus Blue Jackets and Minnesota Wild (unfortunate­ly. both are very bad). 
The game also features updated rosters, new team rankings, and the NHL chal­lenge, which allows you to create your own player and then give him attribute points based on feats that you accomplish during the course of the hockey game. 

This NHL challenge option allows you to imagine that you are playing alongside your favorite NHL player, or to have a team named entire­ly with expletives. Of course, if the latter is the case, the game won't say any names when you score a goal. It is disappointing, I know. 
However, "NHL 2001" is a disappointment if you wanted a better game than "NHL 2000." The goalies are still stupid, scoring is even easi­er. the fights still look stu­pid_, there are tons of glitch­es -and the list goes on and 
on. 
The goalie reactions are 

sometimes absolutely ridicu­
lous: hanging out way out­
side of the crease on odd­
man rushes and sometimes 
jumping completely out of 
the way of the net. 
This brings up the issue of 

scoring. It's ridiculous to 
think that Dallas can put ten 
goals on the board against 
New Jersey, but it happened. 
Now consider that it hap­
pened in 15 minutes' Every 
tip-in. every breakaway. 
every deflection found its 
way past Marty Brodeur. It's 
hard to believe that a good 
team like New Jersey can be 
that awful. 
Then there are the fights. 

There has never been a fight 
in hockey like there is on 
this game. Players aren't 
supposed to stand an arm's 
length apart and swing at 
each other -it's not boxing, 
it's hockey. 
They should be grabbing 

each other's jerseys and 
pummeling each other while 
trying to pull the other guy's 
jersey up over his head. 
That's a real fight, but all 
-
you get from "NHL 2001" is silly fisticuffs. 
The glitches in "NHL 2000" are absolutely frustrating. Among the annoyances are the three-minute pause that sometimes happens when a player is sent to the penalty box and the inability of com­puter-controlled defensemen to keep the puck in the zone when it slides right past them. 
The immovable defenseman glitch is the most annoying of all. For example, during one game with Dallas. the defensemen would line up at the blue line and not move at all. It was like Zubov and Sydor were on strike -no matter what, they stayed locked up right behind the blue line, even if they had the puck. This is almost as infuri­ating as the time that the game locked up when prompted to save, effectively erasing the entire season and 
sending the player to  bed  a  
bitter, bitter person.  
If you already own  "NHL  
2000,"  and  have  a  great  

desire to have NHL 2001, my advice is this: wait for the Playstation2 version to come out. You can check this out at www.easports.com. 
This version looks unbeliev­able and will probably have less glitches. Unfortunately, Washington's Chris Simon is said to be included in this version. due to the fact that his band didn't go on tour last season. 
If glitches don't make you very angry, and if you have a thirst to play with last sea­son's rookies and revised teams like the Blue Jackets and the Wild, then "NHL 2001" for Playstation will be a decent purchase for you. 
pilge 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 25, 2000 

ViORLD SERIES 
r~ew York Mets return ho01e to ju01p back in the series 
the outside cor• 
Associated Pr~ss 
ner of Jeff 
Kellogg's strike
NEWYOHK 
zone, fanned
Back in their raucous den, 
Hobin Ventura

with its ear-splitting music and 
to start the

je1s roaring overhead, the New 
eighth

York Mets were right at home 
But after 

-and right hack in this 
Todd Zeile sin­

SL.bway Series. 
gled, Agbayani
Bunny Agbayani got Shea 
doubled into

Stadium shaking with a go­
the left-center

ahead double in the eighth 
field gap.

inning as the Mets handed 
Agbayani has

Orlando llcrnandez his l'irsl 
hit in all 12 of

pcstscason defeat. beating the 
the Mets' post­

New York Yankees 4-2 Tuesday 
season games

ni;~ht Lu cut their World Series 
this year,

deficit lo 2-1. 
including a
.\ scllou t crowd o I' 55,299 
13th-inning

wnnt crazy as Armando Benitez 
home run that

held on in the ninth inning this 
beat San

time, hdping the Mets end the 
Francisco in the

Yrnkees' record 14-game win­
division series.

ning streak in the World Series. 
Pinch-hitter
.lohn Franco wound up with 
B u b b a

the win. Benitez, who blew a 
Trammell

ninth-inning lead in Game 1, 
added a sacri·

closed it out after giving up a 
fice fly for

le1dol'f single to pinch-hitter 
insurance.

Cruck Knoblauch. 
The Mets
Nothing bizarre abouL this 
improved to 60­

one, either. No pitchers throw­
26 at Shea this

ing bats instead of balls, a stunt 
season, the best

from Game 2 that cost Roger 
mark in base-

Clemens a $50.000 line. 
ball. There
Hernandez began the night 

-
were more
with an 8-0 record and a 1.90 
Yankees fans

ERA in postseason play, and set 
present than 

a Yankees' World Series record 
Mets rooters at

by striking out 12, breaking the 
Yankee

mark of 11 set by Bob Turley in 
Stadium, though they were easi­ble and the Mets' crowd got bled. He put up Darryl Hamilton July 23, 1999. Scott Brosius was
1956. 
ly drowned out by the huge loud, raising the decibel count for starter Hick Recd, yet the hit by a pitch, but Heed limited
Still, in a ballpark where the 

speakers in center field -the more when Agbayani eked out a pinch hitter was no match for the damage and the fourth
Me ts th rive on late-inning 
Mets boosted their sound sys­walk. Hernandez and grounded out. inning ended with the Yankees
magic, it was not enough. 
tem with $30,000 in extra Bases loaded, no outs. And no The Yankees tied it at 1 in the leading 2-1.
Now. after two one-run 


equipment this October. worries from the Yankees bench third on David Justice's RBI O'Neill doubled and tripled,
defeats at Yankee Stadium, the 
The sixth inning saw the Mets -manager Joe Torre never double. It came with two outs, giving him five straight hits ­
Mets get a chance to draw even. 
tie it at 2, and showcased all even had anyone warming up, as have several of the Yankees' two short ol' the Series record
Bcbby J. Jones will pitch Game 
this Subway Series has to offer leaving it all to Hernandez. big hits in this Series. set by Cincinnati's Billy Hatcher
4 on Wednesday night against 
-big stars delivering in big El Duque did not disappoint. Reed singled in the bottom in 1990 -before grounding out
Denny Neagle and Bill Clinton is 
spots, dueling fans and drama He fanned Jay Payton, hopping half, and did a little extra run­his next time up. · 
expected to become the first 
with every pitch. off the mound to punctuate his ning as Edgardo Alfonzo fouled Ventura put the Mets ahead
pr·"sident in office to attend a 
Mike Piazza, made to look 10th strikeout, and then got off a full-count pitch with two 1-0, homering on the first pitch
Series game since Ronald 
foolish in striking out his first Mike Bordick to swing through outs before popping up. in the bottom ol'the second.
Heagan in 1983. 
two times up, led off with a dou­a 3-2 pitch, shouting to cele­Tired or not, Heed was not Hernandez shook his head up
llernandez, who struck out 

ble and Ventura, who homered brate the strikeout. sharp in the next half-inning. and down after the shot, as if to 
the first three hitters in the 
earlier, drew a full-count walk. With reliever Dennis Cook Tino Martinez led off with a sin­acknowledge he'd made a mis­
opening inning and took advan­
Zeile followed with a tying dou-warming up in a hurry, Mets gle and one out later, Paul take, and then struck out Zeile,
ta1~e of a few extra inches on 
manager Bobby Valentine gam-O'Neill hit his first triple since Agbayani and Payton in order. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
(:LASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
FOIJND TREK BIKE in parking lot one week age. CALL MATT 4-4894. 
LO!5T on campus at Stanford game 
1 1:2 inch thick gold bracelet REWARD call Carol at 312-946• 18(0 
TICKETS 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 
289-9280 
SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 
VICTORY TKTS BU'('SELL'TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 www.victorytickets.com 
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED AW -232-2378 PW. -288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE 
A.M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
I NEED 4 BC TIX TOGETHER. CAN PAY ONLY $200. CALL 243-1621 
NEED AF TICKETS, call with price 634-3068, ask for Dylan 
Faculty wants to trade 2 Air Force 
GA tor 2 B.C. G.A 631-6644. 
I need two tickets for the Boston College game. Contact Travis 319-241-1082. 
I NEED 4 TIX TO AIR FORCE ­TOGETHER OR IN PAIRS! PLEASE HELP! CALL KATE@ 634-3697. 
FOR RENT 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email.mmrnrentals@aol.com 232-2595 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available tor loolbalVparent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles trom campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­9487 We have one room tor the Air Force game left $1 20/nt, shared bath. Less than 2 miles from campus, 277-8340. 
NICE HOMES FOR NEl<T 
SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND. 
GREAT AREA. 277-3097. 
WANTED 
Need childcare in our Granger home, Tues. and Thurs. Must have transportation. Call 271-1935. 
NANNY WANTED: 25-35 
hrs/week. Contact Krista @ 425­
793-1208 lor more info or email 
KROBKE@CERWER.COM. 
COACH: Need Jr. High boys bas­
ketball coach. Responsible, 
dependable student or grad to 
coach 7-8th grade basketball 8­
team, Nov. 13-Feb 23; for south 
side elementary school, located 
near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Must be available for prac­
tices Mon-Thurs from 2:20-3:15. 
Game schedule varies. 
Otticials Needed for Men and Women Basketball. great opponuni­
ty to earn great money. Contact the 
RecSports office (Peter Shoop or Jett Walker) @ 631-6100 or stop by the office in the Rolls Sports Recreation Center today. You can also e-mail us at recsport@nd.edu. 
NOTICES 

COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 300,000 + private sector scholar­ships available tor undergraduate and graduate students at accredit­ed colleges in the Usa regardless of their GPA, finances, age or citizen­ship. Write or call for FREE information and application Scholarship Database Service PO. Box 432 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0432 Barnyard8961@hotmail com 1-800-936-3706 
FOR SALE 

SURVIVE SPRING BREAK 2001 ! ALL THE HOTTEST DESTINA· TIONS/HOTELSI CAMPUS SALES REPRESENTATIVES AND STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS WANTED! VISIT inter-campus.com or call 1-800·327-6013 THE TRIBE HAS SPOKEN! 
#1 Spring Break 2001 -Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco. Jamaica, Florida & SPadre. Reliable TWA flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or FREE trips-call for detailsl 1 .BOO.SURFS.UP WWW studentex­press.com 
Spring Break 2001 Book group of 15 and GO FREE! Book before Nov. 3 tor FREE Meals! Visit us at sunsplashtours.com or call tor free info@ 1-800-426-7710 
'88 Ford Taurus, 6-cyl., stereo w/cassette player. Well maintained by responsible female. $2,000/obo. Lv. msg at 291-5366. 
1996 PONTIAC GRAND PRIX SE 4-door, AT, White/Gray, 57K All Power Options, Premium Audio w/CD Changer. $8,250. 272-5492. 
PERSONAL 
FAX ff FAST!!! Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP 
LaFonune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FASTII! 

David needs to get thrown off that show. 
come on be my baby tonight! 
and what's with the mormon? 

she gets kicked out of BYU and starts kissing all over Jamie 
be careful, Julie 
God is watching. 
and where did all the strippers 
come from?? really, David, the Real 7 at 7 on Ch. 77 is not all about bikini shows and arrogant producers. 
I mean, it's quality television. woo woo. shhh. . he's sleeping ... get out of my face. Where's the squeaky mouse? 
Where did you hide it? She don't use jelly. Cheetos, Doritos, Slurpees .. What 
else could you ask tor? Oh yeah. Magic Shell. 
Becky, this is just for you dah-ling Hey Katie Metzi, you are my favorite lunch buddyl 
Big goings on in room 303 alumni tonight, a world series game and a coloring party! what more could you ask for?!?! 
hi kristin, yes i did say kristin, the one and only girl behind the dome this is the end there is no more 

Wednesday, October 25, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 





• 

OIIl 
• •

IC 

• • 


I 

• 




It really is that easy. Free, too. 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer OBSERVER 
online classifieds 

page 18 Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS 

==--=--=--=----=========================================================-=========================================--=======-~====== 
Ml.B 

H[all of fame pitcher to be released from hospital 
Anociated Pre•• 

IIOUSTON 
llull of Fame pitcher Nolan Hyan is expected to be rrleased from a hospital later this Wilek after experiencing tightness in his chest during a recc,nt busirwss trip to Florida. 
The 53-year-old strikeout kinit underwent double coro­nary bypass surgery earlier in !\pril. lie was doing fine ancl sitting up In bed while doctors at St. Luke's Episcopal !lo~ pita! ran tests Tuesday, Hvan's son. Heid, said. 
·.. , was concerned because nnytinrn you have somebody you love like your dad and he's had bypass surgery, you'rn foarful he's had a heart attack," said Heid Hyan, who drove from Austin to lluuston on Monday. Confident his father was doing well, he said 1111 returned home to Austin on Tuesday. 

An EKG and an angiogram both came up negative as far as heart problems. Doctors said the elder Ryan has a mus­cular spasm in an artery that leads to his heart, Heid Hvan said. · 
"It cuts the blood off from getting into his heart. It's not doing it all the time, but ran­domly and when it does it causes the tightness in his chest," Hyan said. 
Nolan Ryan checked himself into the hospital at 1:30 a.m. Monday al'ter returning home the day before from Florida, where he had started freling the tightness in his chest. 
Doctors are giving him dif­ferent medicines and waiting 
12-24 hours  to  see  how his  
body  reacts  to  them,  Heid  
Ryan said.  

"I'll be surprised if he's still there Thursday or Friday," he said. 
Ryan, who had 5,714 career strikeouts and pitched a record seven no-hitters. underwent emergency heart surgery on April 23 at the lleart llospita! ol' Austin. Tests then s11owed he had substan­tial blockage in a main coro­
nary artery, but did not have a heart attack at that time, either. 
Nolan Byan, who threw a major-league record 5,714 career strikeouts and seven no-hitters, underwent emer­gency heart surgery on April 
2:1 at the lleart llospital of Austin. Tests then showed he had substanlial blockage ln a main coronary artery but did not have a heart attack. 
Physicians who treated Hyan in April said they expected him to make a complete recov­ery, but noted he would have been in danger of a life-threat­ening heart attack if he had not immediately addressed his symptoms. 
After the April operation, Hyan plan11Pd to cut back on travel and personal appear­ances but make few changes in business vr.ntures, including a bank, a ranch and a minor league baseball team in which he is part-ownnr. 
Hyan, who lives in Alvin out­side Houston, spent 27 years in the majors, including nine with the llouston Astros (1980-88) and six with the Texas Hangers (1989-94). llll also pitched for the New York Mets and California Angels. 
Hyan, who won '.124 games, was inductnd into the llall of Fame last year. 
__=.;:-.---=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=========:=================================================================================-:===========-~-= 
NC~AA BASKETBALL 

South Carolina freshman forward to miss seven games 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, S.C. 

,--· South Carolina freshman for­ward Holando !lowell will miss the first seven games of the reg­ulu season for his part last summer in a fake money-order scheme. The 6-foot-9 Howell, who avE:raged 18 points, 11 rebounds and 5 blocks as a senior at Lower Richland High School last year, won't play for the Gamecocks until Dec. 19, against North Carolina­Asheville. The final game of his suBpension is the annual in-state matchup with Clemson at the Carolina Coliseum on Dec. 9. 
• I am embarrassed by my poor decisions and I would like to apologize to all those in'lolved," Howell said through tho university Tuesday. 

Ile faced six felony charges as he and two women falsified 12 money orders totaling $4,385 and cashed them. Howell was arrested in September and sus­pended from all basketball activ­ities. 
He was reinstated by athletic director Mike McGee on Oct. 14, before the Gamecocks bp,gan fall practice. 
IIowell was accepted into the state's pretrial intervention pro­gram for first-time offenders last Friday. Howell and his accom­plices, Mary Jones and Penny Moore, admitted guilt and agreed to make restitution. 
Prosecutor Barney Giese said police and the Bi-Lo grocery store where the bogus checks were cashed agreed to let the three into the intervention pro­gram. 
If they complete the program, 
ND students: 
Come play RUGBY! 
GIVE BLOOD 

~,;. .":. : ' _;.,J,~~~_)'f'
:v.·~,, .,·---~•• 
PLATWllGBY No Experience Necessary 
Men Contact: Women Contact: Dave Bishop Frances Devlin Dbishop@nd.edu Dev1in.6@nd.edu 
"! am embarrassed by my poor decisions and I would like to apologize to all those involved." 
Rolando Howell freshman forward 

the charges will be wiped from their records. If they do not, the cases will go to the Richland County grand jury. 
"The legal process has been put into place and I believe 
Rolando has learned from his 
mistakes," McGee said. "This 
was obviously a poor decision 
on Rolando's part and he seems 
ready to move on." 

Howell has practiced with the team the past two weeks. llis suspension also covers the Gamecocks' exhibition games on Nov. 4 and Nov. 11. 
The university said Howell was cleared for practice once McGee learned prosecutors had signed oIT on letting him into the pretrial program. 
Howell was expected to be an 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 
exciling addition to South Carolina's improving tPam. 
The Gamecocks have had two straight losing seasons, buL went 15-17 last year with one of the youngest teams in the Southeastern Conference. 
Coach Eddie Fogler has said it will be up to llowell to deter­mine how much playing time he gets. Any freshman, no matter how heralded, must learn the pace of the faster college game and of doing things a different, more disciplined way, Fogler . said. 

APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR THE 
PUEBLA, MEXICO PROGRAM SPRING 2001 
HAS BEEN EXTENDED TO 
NOVEMBER 7, 2000 
SPEND SPRING SEMESTER 2001 IN SUNNY PUEBLA 
INSTEAD OF SNOWY SOUTH BEND 
ELIGIBILITY: SOPHOMORE OR ABOVE 
2.5 GPA SPANISH THROUGH 103 LEVEL 
APPLICATIONS ON LINE AT http://www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
SUBMIT APPLICATIONS IN ROOM 201, CAMPUS SECURITY BUILDING 
Wednesday, October 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 

NBA
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Minnesota earns exhibition win
Knight continues with 
talk of coaching again 
A.'lsociatcd Press 
As.sociated P rcss 
INDIANAPOLIS 

After Bob Knight was fired from Indiana UnivP-rsity in September. he said he would coach again. His comments at a charity fund-raiser Tuesday night seemed to reinforce that. 
"This will be the last time I speak in Indianapolis," 
Knight said, "The person rm most mistake this 
while P.J. Brown and Jamaal 
possibly indi­
Magloire added 10 each.
upset with is me. I real­spring."
cating he has 
The Hornets, already with­
Knight

plans to leave ized what I was dealing 
out forward Derrick Coleman
spent 29 

for the entire preseason, also
lhe state. with five years ago. " years at 
Knight was 
had starting guard David
Indiana, 

fired as head leading the 
Wesley and backup center 
b a s k e t b a JI Bob Knight 
Otis Thorpe in street clothes
Hoosiers to 

coacI1 Scpt. 10. former Indiana University coach three NCAA 
on the bench. Wesley missed 
points in a 15-4 run that put Minnesota up 51-26 with 
4:36 left in the half. 
Charlotte eventually cut it to 17 when Magloire made two free throws with 1:18 to go that made it 55-38, but that was the closest the Hornets got. 
Pistons 107, Rockets 1.03 
Maybe the Detroit Pistons will have some players lo help Jerry Stackhouse shoul­der the scoring. 
Five Pistons scored in dou­ble figures as Detroit beat the Houston Rockets in an exhibi­tion game. Stackhouse watched the game in a sweater and jeans because of a sore knee. 
Chucky Atkins led Detroit with 17 points and four assists, while John Wallace, Ben Wallace and Billy Owens added 12 points each and Cedric Ceballos had 11. 
The Rockets went on a 12-4 run late in the fourth quarter to take a 103-102 lead. They couldn't hold on to the lead because Steve Francis com­mitted two turnovers and three Pistons scored in the final two minutes. 
Houston also had to rely on role players because Hakeem Olajuwon and Maurice Taylor did not play because of injuries and Shandon Anderson did not attend the game because of an illness in his family. 
Matt Bullard led Houston with 2 2 points on 9 -o f-1 3 shooting, while Walt Williams scored 18 and Cuttino Mobley added 15. 
Detroit led 27-25 after the 

first quarter and 57-53 at 
halftime. Eight Pistons scored 
four or more points. 
Two Rockets kept the game close in the first half. Williams scored 13 points in the first quarter and Bullard added 12 in the second. 
A 9-0 run in the third quar­

ter helped Detroit build a 82­
74 lead after three quarters. 
Knicks 90, Nets 81 
The New York Knicks are off to their best preseason start in four years. 
Larry Johnson scored 18 points, Marcus Camby had 16 points and 11 rebounds, Allan Houston scored 13 points and Chris Childs added 12 as the Knicks won for the fifth time in six games, over the New Jersey Nets. 
"We've been terrible in the preseason during my fir-st two years here," said Latrell Sprewell, who contributed nine points, four assists and six steals. "We're starting to play well tog~ther. The record speaks for itself." 
The Knicks haven't had a winning preseason since they went 5-3 prior to the 1996-97 season. Last year, they were 
2-6. 
Johnson was 3-of-4 from 3­poin t range as the Knicks shot 54 percent (7-of-13) from behind the arc. His 3­pointer midway through the third quarter gave the Knicks their biggest lead of the game, 58-47. He had seven points during a 14-3 run that snapped a 44-44 tie. 
"The guys are really start­ing to feel comfortable out there. Our confidence is growing," Camby said. "We are now approaching every game like it's the regular season. We want to win every ballgame. We have a good team and have the chance to do something special." 
The Nets, who were only 1­of-8 from 3-point range, lost for the fourth time in five games. 
Kendall Gill, who led all 

scorers with 24 points, 
brought the Nets within 75­
73 with 3:45 remaining. 
Childs then hit a 3-pointer 
and Houston added two free 
throws to secure the win. 
Nets rookie Kenyon Martin 

had 14 points and 11 
rebounds. Stephon Marbury, 
who shot just 3-for-17, had 
10 points, 13 assists and 
eight rebounds. 
ago," Knight said, referring to his relationship with JU admin­istrators. 
He said the support he received from fans and players' parents made him decide to stay. 
"You people made me com­fortable here," Knight said. "I decided to stay. That was a mistake. It was a mistake five years ago, and it was a 
GREENSBORO, N.C. 

Terrell Brandon scored 20 points and Kevin Garnett had 19 to lead the Minnesota Timberwolves to a 100-79 exhibition victory over the Charlotte Ilornets on Tuesday night. 
Chauncey Billups added 14 points and Sam Mitchell had 12 for Minnesota (1-4). 
Jamal Mashburn led the Hornets (4-2) with 14 points, 
for what the university called a "pattern of unaccept­able behavior." Knight had been working under a zero-tol­erance policy that came about earlier in the year following allegations he had choked a former player several years ago. 
Shortly after his firing, Knight told ESPN that he wants to con­tinue coaching "in the worst way." 
Knight was speaking Tuesday at a fund-raiser for Horizons, a summer program that teaches academic and social skills to children from low-income fami­lies. He said he wished he had left IU five years ago. 
"The person I'm most upset with is me. I realized what I was dealing with five years titles and l 1 
Big Ten championships. He also coached teams that won gold medal in the Olympics and Pan American Games. 
Though out of the coaching loop for now. Knight showed he's still a tough teacher. When a group of students sitting in the front row began whispering to each other, Knight shushed them. 
"You're not dealing with one of America's politically correct teachers," he told the girls, drawing applause from a parti­san crowd. 
It also appeared Knight hadn't lost his wry sense of humor. 
"There must not be any Indiana trustees here tonight," he said after a standing ovation when he was introduced. 
his second straight game because of a sprained ankle and Thorpe sat out with a sorn foot. 
Without Wesley on the floor, Charlotte looked slow early and quickly found itself in a big hole. 
Minnesota scored the first five points of the game, and used an 11-2 run to quickly take control. Garnett opened with a jumper and Brandon made a 3-pointer. Dean Garrett then hit two long jumpers and Brandon capped the run with a running 16­footer. 
The Timberwolves contin­ued to pull away in the sec­ond quarter, even when their backups were on the floor. Anthony Peeler and Rasho Nesterovic combined for 10 

Susan Kilty, Saint Mary's Graduate of 2000 and current Indiana Governor's Fellow will be on campus Friday, October 
27, 2:00 to 4:00 pm in the Hesburgh Library Concourse to explain the: 
GOVERNOR'S FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM 

•  Tailored for college graduates who received lheir bachelor's degree in fall 2000 or  
spring 200 I.  
• Runs during the fiscal year, which is from July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002.  
• Experience four lmonrh long rotations in various state agencies.  
• Earn acompeliiive salary plUR full tiinge benefits.  
• Learn from amentor who is well respected in their field.  
• Make key contacts in both the public and private sector.  
•  Fonn friendships with other fellows who snare the experience ofjust entering the workforce.  
• Discoverthe intrinsic value of public service in Indiana.  

Applications will be available this {all. For an application contact Heather Macek, Program Director at 317-232-4567 or check us out on the web at http://www.aj,ori/aov. 
Wednesday, Octobc:r 25, 2000

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCA" BASKETBALL 
Minnesota receives probation, loses five scholarships 
tigation by the university. reopened if new evidence were that the issue or lack of institu­participation in three NCAA 
Associated Press 
The NCM report echoed the uncovered by federal prosecu­tion al control during Coach tournarne nts, inet ud ing the 
MINNEAPOLIS 

What was described as one of the worst cases of academic fraud 'n 20 years cost the Minncs11ta athlclic department four years probation and five men's basketball scholarships. But the Golden Gophers escaped the worst penalty. 
Because Minnesota. acted firmly to investigate itself and punish those involved in a wide­spread term-paper scam, the NCM decided Tuesday it would not bar the uni­versity from post­
season play. "No one is going to go out under­Such punish­
and think they can mined the 
ment would have 
bedrock 

cost the school violate these rules and 
foundation

hundreds of think the penalties will 
of a univer­thousands of dol­

not be severe. " sity and the
lars in TV money 
operation

and irnmeasu r­
of its inter­

ablc recruiting Jack Friedenthal 
co11 e gi ate 

chances. infractions committee chairman 
athletics

Members of the NCAA s infrac­tions committee said the scandal was among the most serious cases )f academic fraud in 20 years. 
"You have to determine wheth,~r you caught the atten­tion of the university and wheth,3r it caught the attention of others," said committee chairman Jack Friedenthal, a law professor at George Wash ,ngton University. "The University of Minnesota is and should be deeply ashamed of what happened. 
"No one is going to go out and think they can violate these rules and think the penalties will not be severe," he said. 
The committee added slightly to se,ernl of Minnesota's self­imposed punishments, adding to recruiting limits and ordering that all records of postseason tourn.mwnts during the miscon­duct from 1993-98 be erased. 
University President Mark Yudof said the school considers the additional penalties fair, and no appeal would be made. 
Coach Dan Monson said play­nrs and staff were "ecstatic" that no postseason ban was levied. 
"The last few days I've been rciall]' dreading and gf'tting ner­vous ... for the fact of having to face those ·players like I did last year and tell them that dream is gone," Monson said. 
"To be able to go to practice every day and have the oppor­tunity to strive for something, to strive for that goal, is a very hapr:y day for us." 
The Saint Paul Pioneer Prnss broke the fraud story in March t t)<)~1• reporting that office man­ager and leam tutor Jan Gan:~elhoff had admitted writ­ing morn than 400 papers for at leas·. 18 players in a live-year period. The story prompted a ninn-month, $2.2 million invcs­
! ,,.., f\'l. :' '''}('•··· .•
!! 
"'"'·.·.····/l!iRo
•.o um 1a;i · 
!;portswear
la , ~ · -at 

from C1UTPCST 
Campus 
CompeUtlv. In •very •1111•• 
ll 259-iooo for more details 

finding of Minnesota's internal investigation that former coach Clem Haskins and academic adviser Alonzo Newby partic­ipated in the fraud and helped cover it up After several denials over many months, llaskins admitted paying Gangelhoff $3,000 in cash to help a student afler she was ordered to stay away from the team. 
"The violations were signifi­cant, widespread and intention­aI," the NCAA report said. "More than that, their nature ­
academic 
fraud 
program." 
A release 
f r o m 

Haskins' attorneys said the committee's report was "not acceptable" to Haskins. and that the coach "denies that he participated in academic fraud at the universi­ty." The release said the univer­sity's investigation was "one­sided and used coach Haskins as the scapegoat." 
Friedenthal said the commit­tee strongly considered adding another year to the postseason ban. But committee members were impressed that Minnesota held four implicated players out of the Gophers' first-round NCAA tournament game the day after the newspaper story appeared. The Gophers lost that day to Gonzaga. 
The committee also was impressed, Friedenfhal said, by Minnesota's willingness to return 90 percent of money earned from three NCAA tour­naments, including the 1997 Final Four, estimated at about $350,000. 
"The steps they took in the self-imposed penalties we f'elt were encouraging," Friedenthal said. "They were fairly severe." 
l•riedcnthal considered the case closed but said it could be 
tors. 
The "death penalty" -shut­ting down the basketball pro­gram -"certainli would be seriously considered" if Minnesota commits similar vio­lations within five years, Friedenthal said. 
Gangelhoff, now a store clerk in Wisconsin, called the report "thorough and just." 
"I sighed with relief to see Haskins' reign was dealt with thoughtfully and seriously," Gangelhoff said. "As I stated months ago, this recognition by the NCAA would allow them to send a strong message to mem­ber institutions about their seri­ous commitment to academics." 

In addition to probation, Minnesota must take down ban­ners and make no reforence in school materials to the Gophers' 1997 Pinal Four. and two National Invitation Tournaments, including its 1998 title. 
The university had already reduced scholarships from 13 to 10 over the next two seasons, plus four scholarships to be spread among the three seasons beginning in 2001-02. The NCAA cut the scholarships by one more, to five. 
FALL BREAKALERT... 
Do not forget to bring back your coats from home! 


T 
TH 

Begins Monday, October 23, 2000! 
Collection sites include: 
-all residence halls 

-Center for Social Concerns 
-Hammes Bookstore 
-NDH andSDH 
-Main Building 
-and others 

,~~
G~·. R 

Share the War,nth! 

THE CANDAX-ME MCNAIR PROGRAM ANNOUNCES THE 2000 -2001 RECRUITMENT MEETING WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2000 
4:00 -5:00 PM (Pizzas & Sodas will be served) 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS (IJE.t\DJ.INE FO_R APPLICAT!Q!'J"~-~ov_:_J7) 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
(all ethnic backgrounds are eligible) 
Or. Ronald E. McNair 
or 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans ( visit the xo ram at htt ://www.nd.edu/~mario/mcnair/) 

Wednesday, October 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
TRACK & FIELD 
King faces pressures at World Junior Championships 
really didn't think it was nec­season for collegiate athletes. have here." 
"I let my coaches know
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
they would end up essary to "The USA team as a whole did Next time she goes abroad. 
Asso< iate Sports Edi IOr that I'm really serious 
using her." throw her pretty badly," King said. "It's a King will be better prepared for In the semifi­and determined to com­into double bad time of the season for us the competition. Intense training workouts, nals, the u.S. days. Juniors. It's off on our training "It has inspired me big-time,"
pete on the world level. 
poor timing and culture shock placed fifth "I don't schedule. I think that's the King said "I want to be in the
Definitely by the time the
led Tamcisha King to perform despite a shaky know that biggest reason why the U.S. team Olympics. fleck, I'm going to be below her potential in ihe World handof'f, leaving 2004 Olympics come you sacri­didn't do that well. Our perfor­in the Olympics." Junior Championships in King hopeful for a around, I'll be ready." fice her mances weren't even close to Facing elite opposition over­
Santiago, Chile last week. promising run in event to get where they should have been." seas let King know what a chal­"It didn't go well at all," King the finals. ready for Nothing could prepare King for lenge it is to run and jump with said of her long jump showing. Unfortunately. the Tameisha King the relays," the world of difference between 
the world's best. 
"It was rnally unfortunate. I race didn't go as Junior World Championship Winsor life in Chile and life in the U.S. "Ifyou want to compete at thatdidn't even make it to the finals." well as planned. added. Violence overwhelmed King in
competitor level, it is a major, major com­
King, who has leapt a school "In the finals. T h e her first trip overseas. 
mitment," Winsor said. "I can't
record 20 feet, 4 1/2 inches, there was another sophomore "They told us it was really dan­
think of anybody that would say
jumped just 18-9 in the World handoff mistake between the track star knew her body gerous to go out of the premis­
Ono' when they were asked if
Junior Championships. third and fourth legs," King said. couldn't handle the extra prac­es," King said. "There were 
they want to be a great athlete.
"Tameisha knows she's better Competing in both events put tice, but the American coaches gates all around, and so we real­
but not everybody is willing to
than that," Notre Dame jumps an added strain on King. She didn't listen. ly couldn't leave the premises 
make the sacrifices necessary to
coad1 Scott Winsor said. "We went to Chile well-rested. but the "I even tried to hide in the without a bodyguard. I called my 
get there. I think she will." 
know s"he's better than that. I U.S. coaches there put her shade the second workout," King mom Wednesday night crying 
When King arrived back in the
think the USA Track and Field through a double dose of prac­said. "I kept telling her [the about how people were walking 
United State-s Monday night, the
coaches know she's better than tices the day beforn her competi­coach] I needed to rest for my around with machine guns." 
first thing she did was call her
that." tion. jump the next day. that my ham­The sophomore was also 
coaches to assure them of her
In addition to the long jump, "We had tapered her quite a strings were tight. I think that struck by the poverty, as Chilean 
resolution to achieve greatness. 
King ran the first leg of the U.S. bit to be able to perform well in because I was a Junior, and I youngsters crowded around the 
"I let my coaches know that
4x100-meter relay that finished the long jump," Winsor said. wasn't on the world class level U.S. athletes chanting. "USA" 
I'm really serious and deter­
seventh overall. "But they decided to use her as quite yet. I didn't have as much and begging for anythtng from 
mined to compete on the world
"I knew going in that she was an alternate in the sprint relays. say so as I will in a few years." America. 
level," King said. "Definitely by
considered as an alternate for The coaches did what they felt U.S. competitors already found ''We tried to give them T-shirts 
the time the 2004 Olympics come
the relays." Notre Dame sprints was necessary to get her ready themselves at a disadvantage in and quarters," King said. "It 
around, I'll be ready." 
coach John Millar said, "but I for the relays. I don't know that the meet, since October is off-made me appreciate a lot what I 
WORLD SERIES 
Yankees end 14-game series winning streak with loss to Mets 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK The streak is over. Love 'em or hate 'em, the New 
York Yankees inspired awe with their World Series winning 
streak. Yet in the most pressure­
Baseball is the most humbling packed part of the year. playing of sports, where a team is terrif­against the best team in the ic if it plays .600 ball during the National League each season, season. In the NFL and the the Yankees took a record 14­NBA, winning only 60 percent of game World Series winning the time can get coaches fired. streak into Game 3 Tuesday night against the Mets and final­ly saw it end, 4-2, at Shea Stadium. 

"It's quite an accomplishment, but it doesn't mean anything right now," Derek Jeter said. "We just have to start a new streak." 
The Yankees took pride in the streak and how long it lasted. 
"When you think about all the teams you had to beat and how tough it is to win four out of seven, much less four in a row every year, it's pretty incredi­ble," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "That's a streak to be proud of because of who you have to beat to get there." 
The best streak in the history of the NBA Finals is a mere six, put together by the Houston Rockets in 1994-95. In the NHL, the Montreal Canadiens won 11 straight games in the Stanley Cup finals from 1973 to 1978. 
In surpassing the record of 12 straight set by Babe Ruth's Murderers' Row Yankees of 1927, '28 and '32, the current Yankees came back from 0-2 to win four straight against Atlanta in 1996, then swept San Diego in 1998 and Atlanta last year. before winning the first two against the Mets. 
"It can become a little over­whelming, when you think about all the teams you've played and winning every game," Torre said. "And some­times you were leading, and sometimes you weren't. But you always end up winning, which is incredible to me if I allow myself to think about it." 
To win so many games in a row, a team has to be good and it has to be luckv. The Yankees have been both. · 
Six of the victories in the streak were by one run. 
The Yankees caught a break in the 4-3, 12-inning Game 1 victory last Saturday when Mets rookie Timo Perez dawdled around second base in the sixth inning, thinking Todd Zeile's liner to left was a home run. Turned out it wasn't, and Perez was cut down at home by a relay throw from David Justice to Derek Jeter. In the 6-5 Game 2 win, the Mets threw a scare into the Yankees with five runs in the ninth, but fell short. 
"A lot of teams that lose think they got the bad end of the breaks," Zeile said Monday. "That's a loser's mentality. You make your own breaks. That's what the Yankees do and that's why they've won 14 straight World Series games. It's not all luck." 
Balance has been a key to the streak. just as it has been to the Yankees' success during the regular season the last few years. 
Instead of a Babe Ruth or a Lou Gehrig who can carry a team, they have a whole lineup of hitters who nick away with singles and doubles. These Yankees don't make a lot of errors in the field or on the basepaths. And their pitching, from the starters to the bullpen, has mostly been "olid, and on occasion spectacular. 
Roger Clemens gave up only two hits while striking out nine in eight shutout innings in Game 
2. And before reliever Mariano Rivera was roughed up in relief in the ninth. he had pitched 14 1-3 consecutive scoreless innings in World Series play over nine appearances. 
Last year in Game 1, four Yankee pitchers combined on a two-hitter. Orlando Hernandez allowed one run and struck out 10 in seven innings that game, the most strikeouts by an AL pitcher in a World Series game since Oakland ·s Blue Moon Odom had 11 in 1972. 
r------------------------------------------­
page 22 Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS 
BASKETBALL 

[>illon faces possibility of playing for Ireland national team 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
A_,.o.:iacc Spom EJiror 

.limmy Dillon, Notre Dame's st,,rting point guard a year ago. may find himself changing !'rom th,; red. while and blue or the United Statos to the orange, white and green stripes of' Ireland in coming months_ 
l)illon, a 6-foot-2 player f'rom PJ-.iladclphia, hopes to continue hi:, basketball earner by playing for the Ireland national team. 
·'The coach of the national team in Ireland is working on a ci tizcnship for myself to get a dual citizenship," Dillon said "They look for your roots and follow your background to sec if you bavn grandparents or great-grandparents who were b11rn in Ireland. llopefully they would grant me dual citizenship with Urn U.S. and Ireland." 
If the Irish citizenship !'alls through, Dillon will either play in the International Basketball League, the U.S. Basketball League or in an overseas league. Although Dillon has other options to keep his play­ing days alive, trading in the stars and stripes during a stint overseas is his first choice. 
''I'm holding off on signing anything else because it's deli­r.itely my No. 1 option," Dillon said. "I would get to travel c.round the world with them. It's different if you're playing in one European country. Going from continent to continent and country to country works out a lot better for me." 
If things go in Dillon's favor, a decision will come down on his quest for dual citizenship soon­er rather than later. llis time frame to sign a contract !'or the coming season is growing short. 
"The leagues don't start until Oecember," Dillon said, ''but they kind of want me over in Europe now for training pur­poses." 
Former Irish coaches Hob MacKinnon and Matt Doherty have aided Dillon, who tied a school record by dishing off 214 assists last season, in his quest to slay on the hardwood. Although both men left Notre Dame behind this summer, Dillon's remained close to them. even going to North Carolina earlier lhis month to attend Midnight Madness. 
"Coach [Doherty) and I still have a really good relation­ship," Dillon said. "It's easier for players when you graduate because you're not out there adjusting tu coaching changes." 
Right now, Dillon would wel­come the adjustment to a new coach. since that would signal an extension of his days on the court. 
'Tm getting kind of restless now," said Dillon, who's coach­ing and practicing in the Philadelphia area while his future hangs in the balance. 'Tm ready to get going." 


LAAsp Stud'ies a.•
Study Ab •'llllor Summer I road Summer R nternship
S . esearch S 
emor Ess 11PPort LA Film ;1 ~rize
LA .,, . eries 
nus,c s .
B

razilia er,es " Camava/ 

-
Wednesdav, October 25 at 5:30 pm 
Great Hall, Hes&urgh Center for International Studies
(tKELLOGG INSTITUTE Meet current students and faculty! 
Refreshments will be served. 

Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
The Obseruer . SPORTS page 23 
Football 
continued from page 28 
and that's our goal," he said. 'The future is becoming brighter as we go. We're in our eighth game of the season, but for our offense it's really like the fif'th game. We think we're going to get better." 
The key, according to Davie was forging an offensive identi­ty. 
"The biggest thing we've done is to lock into the system which requires some mobility at quar­terback," Davie said, "and now I think we're getting better at what we do." 
Much of Notre Dame's improved offensive success lies in Kevin B.ogers' ability to tailor an offense !'or the different quar­terbacks. LoVecchio, a drop­back passer with deceptive speed, has been allowed to not only makP the throws from the pocket but to run the occasional option as well. 
"We do spread it and we give you a lot of formations," Davie said. "And now I think we're getting better at executing." 
Hogers has also learned to use a talented corps of running backs. Sophomore Julius Jones, and juniors Terrance Howard and Tony Fisher have all shown llashes of brilliance this season. Fisher, a talentrd pass catcher has been running more down­field routes -he caught long scoring passes against both Navy and West Virginia, while Howard has shown power run­ning up the middle. 
"We have a lot of options there [tailback!," said Davie. "We have to go with the hot hand, but right now Julius is still the starter." 
Additionally, the Irish have excelled at taking care of the ball. By playing almost turnover­free football -they have yet to lose a fumble in seven games ­the Irish have maximized their chances of a victory. By not giv­ing away the ball, the Irish have avoidl·d giving away games. 
Davie also announced that Battle. who broke a bone in his wrist against Nebraska, would indeed miss the remainder of the season, as his cast will be on for another month. 
"Arnaz is completely out of the mix for the year," Davie said. "This week Gary Godsey is our backup, but that could change. We'll get to the open date and then see where we are. Jared Clark (another true freshman} is also a consideration." 
With the offense moving closer to matching the defense's quali­ty of play, talk has turned to Notre Dame making a run at a spot in the Bowl Championship Series. 
By winning out and finishing with a 9-2 record or by cracking the top 10 in the BCS poll, Notre Dame would qualify for a BCS berth. That spot, however, would only be guaranteed if TCU finishes sixth or higher in the same poll. In that case, BCS bylaws assure Notre Dame of receiving the second at-large spot. Should Texas Christian not crack the top six, a 9-2 Irish team would only be in the pool, and not assured of a berth. 
With a strong special teams unit and a punishing defense already in place, an offensive surge has the Irish thinking of bowling come January. Rogers is no doubt devising new ways to strike. 


Sure, you probably learned quite a bit going to class and sticking your nose in an overpriced te~book. But now. the real test is at hand: life. Life in the busi'ness world. Life in the age of some wicked cool technology Life in a new millennium. 
At ONE. we can help you prepare for your future. You see, we're a different kind of company looking for a different kind of professional. We 're not after problem identifiers, we want solution providers. 
Individuals who can work on a team, yet think independently. Innovators who are ready to learn a thing or two about success. 
www.oneco.net 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish finish regular season undefeated with Michigan win 

By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Spom Writer 

In a fitting end to a near­perfect regular season, the top-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team scored a 5-1 victory 011 the ruad over the Michigan Wolverines Tuesday to finish a season unbeatM (17-0-1) for the third time in school history. 
Five different players scored for the Irish. who rebounded from their lirst setback of the season, a 0-0 tic at UConn on Saturday. 
Inspired by the return of freshman Arny Warner, who had missed seven previous games due to injury, the Irish struck early, determined to put this one away early. Senior forward Gonzalez, making her first start of the season. and co-captain Anne :Makinen. who wasn't even supposnd to play with a slight knee injury, combined for the first score. Gonzalez took a pass from Makinen, then fol­lowed her own shut before knocking in the rebound in the game's 17th minute to give Notre Dame a 1-0 lead. 
The Irish nxtended their l,\ad off a bnautifu!ly executed cor­ner kick minutes before the hall'. Sr•nior forward Mcotis Erikson S!!nl an arching ball from Lim left corner allowing junior midfielder Mia Sarkesian to score off a head­er from six yards out to make 
the score 2-0. 

With the game seemingly in hand, the much-heralded freshmen class took over. First-year player Randi Scheller came off the bench to score two goals in a 20-minute span in the second half, the first off a give-and-go feed from classmate Amanda Guertin. 
Though it was only an insur­ance goal. Amy Warner's late tally may have been the game's most important. \'Varner created a stir, check­ing in for the game's final 20 minutes, her first action in a month. and then promptly announced her triumphant return by beating the defense down the right side before sending a low shot past the Wolverine kl'epPr. 
Warner's return is crucial for the Irish. whose offensive attack missed her speed. 
Michigan's Marie Spacarrotella bMt sophomore goalkeeper Sani Post, who relieved starter Liz Wagner after 70 minutes, to break up the shutout. The goal prevent­ed the Irish from tying a team record for goals allowed in a season (5). a mark set by the '97 squad. 
The win enabled the 2000 Irish women .to grab a place in history alongside the '94 and '97 teams as the only squads to complete aseason without a loss. 
After dominating the 


Wolverines, the Irish head into of Makinen in the lineup signal postseason play on a high the return of a potent offense note. The return of Warner that had been silenced of late. and tho unexpected presence The Irish will now prepare to weather thn Ilurricancs of Miami who blow into town Sunday for a Big East quarter­final showdown 

page 25

Wednesday, October 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
Chad Riley scored on a leaping header to calm the Storm for good, 1-0. 
The game marked the first career start for sophomore goal­keeper Cole Straub. who had been awaiting his chance to play while best friend Greg Tait manned the goal for the Irish every previous game this season. 
"Whoever's playing well, those are the guys who start," said Irish head coach Chris Apple. "Cole's been playing better than Greg, so he's the one who start­ed. It was the right call -he had a great game against St. John's." 
Following the win over the high-ranked Red Storm. Apple enjoyed the victory, but worried about tho effect the win would have on the next game for the Irish the following Tuesday against Georgetown on Washington, D.C. 
"St. John's was a huge win, and every time you beat a really good team, there's always that tendency to have a dip in perfor­mance in your next game," said Apple. 
Apple's words proved to be prophetic as the Irish fell 2-0 to a Hoyas' squad ranked in the lower half of the Big East. 
That gaine also remained close as neither loam scored until the 
76:27 mark, when Georgetown's Kenny Owens scored on a penal­ty kick. Following the late goal, the Trish put their efforts into offense, sending as many as eight players up to the for':Vard position. 
This strategy left Notre Dame susceptible to a breakaway goal, which is how Georgetown put the game away six minutes later when Paul Backman lofted a shot over Straub's head for the final score in the 2-0 loss. 
The [rish next played Villanova on the night of Friday, Oct, 20. Showing the same talent that pushed them past St. John's, the Irish breezed past the Wildcats 
Most ND Students Make Healthy Choices 

2-0 behind two goals by forward Erich Braun.While Villanova may be ranked second-to-last in the conference, Apple st!'esses how evenly matched the teams in the Big East are. 
"If you look at the Big East, everybody is upsetting every­one," said Apple. "Villanova's a good team. They turned around Sunday and beat No.· 9 Pittsburgh." 
Following the Villanova victo­ry, the Irish knew their fate was in their hands as they took on the Scarlet Knights of Rutgers on Sunday. A victory over Hutgers would give the Irish eight points heading into a Big East season finale against conference cellar dweller West Virginia. A loss would put Rutgers mathemati­cally out of reach and eliminate Notre Dame from contention. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, they were facing a Rutgers team that knew that they controlled their fate as well. The Irish entered the second half with the scored tied 1-1 behind a Braun goal in the first half. The [rish lost their grasp on the game with 20 minutes remaining as Guy Abrahamson and . Dustin Sheppard scored back-to-back goals to give Rutgers an insur­mountable 3-1 advantage. 

'The Rutgers game, we played very good soccer," said Apple. '"We had some great chances to score. We gave up two free kicks and that was the deciding fac­tor." 
Despite all hopes for postsea­son play being dashed, the Irish continue to find meaning in their season heading into the final two games. 
"We're playing these last two games for pride," said Apple, "for all the hard work we've put in throughout the season to end the season on a positive note." 
Apple feels that the season 
may be ending too quickly for a 
team that is just now getting to 
know one another. 
"Some seasons you'd end this 
way and be almost looking for­
ward to it coming to an end," he 
said. "This year everybody is 
wishing we were still playing." 
A message from PILLARS with Alcohol & Drug Education Jl1 Lafortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
LIZ LANG/The Observer

(219) 631-7970 Senior Griffin Howard edges past a Pittsburgh player In Notre
http://www.nd.edu/-aldrug/ 
Dame's 3-2 conference loss to the Panthers. The Irish are cur­
rent! 2-2 In the Big East. 
rr==================-___;;=--------·­
Viet:na1nese St:utfent' 91.ssociation 
ef'Notre 'Da-rne 
(VSA) 
Firs-t General Mee-tinglll 
When: 8:30pm, Sunday, Oc"tober 29, 2000 Where: LaFor-tune Coali"tion Room (2nd floor) Who: All int"eres-ted part"iesl 
(Questions? Contact ND.vsand.1@nd.edu) 
NOBODY DOU BREAKS BETTER! 
~l~;;::~:e:::!;==:!:::::;:;:::~ 
Destin FL ( Hilton Head SC ) 

~~al~n1 
Feb 23-A r 1 2

Em Steamboat···CO ~Breckenrid eCO 
www.sunchase.com 
f•800',SUNCHASE 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
,voMEN'S SOCCER 
WOMEN'S GOLF 

By.roe, Smith lead 
Belles put up fight against Britons 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Irish performance
Sl'ons Writer 
scores in her last six rounds.
. Women's Golf in
Although they didn't pull an 
Smith -whose 81.98 

upset victory against the 
11th place after career stroke average is on 
Albion Britons, the Belles of 
pace to best the Irish record
first round of

Saint Mary's stayed closer 
of 82.10, set by 1<)98 gradu­than expected. 

Central District 
ate Katie King -opened
The Belles kept their deficit 

Classic with an 80, for a shar<\ of
t(I one in the first half and 
34th. Smith, who posted anended tho game 5-1. a far cry 

80.38 stroke average in

from the 7-0 shutout loss they 
Special to The Observer 
1999-2000, saw her 2000

suf'fcrnd ,,arlicr in the season 
fall average rise slightly to at the hands of the top-ranked 

79.40.

Freshman Shannon Byrne
13 ri tons. 
Junior Kristin McMurtrie

turned in one of her top
"We took (the win! for grant­
and sophomore Terri Taibl

rounds of the season and
ed," Britons head coach Lisa 
also counted to the team

senior captain Shane Smith
Hoschek said. 
score in the play-live, count•

continued her solid play
"Saint Mary's played a lot four format while freshmanwhile the Notre Dameharder than we thought they 

Hebecca Rogers rounded out

women's golf team settled inwould. I was very impressed the Irish contingent. just oneat 11, following first-round
with how hard they played 
week after winning the Notreaction Mondav at the Centraleven until the end." 

Dame Invitational with a
District Classic.
The Belles squad, which has 
three-round 225.

The tournament -origi­
bt\cn decimated by injury for 
Tim Irish head into

nally scheduled for 36 holes Tuesday's action within most of the season. appreciat­
on Monday, with a final 
range of several teams, 

ed the return of veteran co­
round on Tuesday 

includes srweral of the top including Illinois, Baylor and
captain Jessica Klink, who 
played forward instead of hPr 
teams from the Big Ten Wisconsin. Northwestern
u!;ual spot at sweeper._ and 
garnered her !1rst assist of the 
Conference, plus Kent State, leads the event after an Arkansas and Baylor. opening-round 300, followed
srason. "The change Iof position) 
Byrne posted a team-best closely by Ohio State, was line," Klink said. "I really 
79 at the par-72, 6,113-yard Michigan State and enjoyed it. It was a great game 
River Wilderness Country Michigan. to come back to." 
Club, good for a share of OSU's Ashley Lowery leads The Belles played without 
24th in the 55-player field. the individual competition, sc,phomore co-captain and 
Byrne's 81.00 season stroke followed by Northwestern leading scorer Heather Muth, 
average (third-best on the teammates Lauren Grzebien but stepped up the offense and 
team) includes three sub-80 and Elizabeth Burden. defense to even dominate the top-ranked team at times. 
"For teams to miss one of their top players usually means a loss of drive or spir­
Please Recycle 
it " Hoschek said. "Saint 
Mary's stepped up and played 
really well regardless." 
The Observer. 
The match was a contrast to the early season loss. In that ga.me, the Britons outshot the 
freshman scorer. said. "We lll==Eiii=
Bolles 26-1. On their own turf, 
came into this game the

the Britons again got off 26 underdog so that played to ourshots, but the Belles made 16 
advantage. A lot of people

of their own in an improved played different positions and
offensive effort. 
this time we clicked."
"We really started attacking Belles' goalie Tia Kapphahnright away," Belles head coach 

Ja.son Milligan said. "We Britons. Kirby led the Bellesmaintained possession of the with four shots, while defen­
b;i.11 real well. I don't think 
sive mainstay and co-captainthey expected us to be that 

Katy Robinson made three

successful." 
shots at midfield. Artnak and,\rter the Britons opened up Klink finished with two shots.

a 2-0 lead. the Belles stole Freshmen Irvin, Katie Green,
their thunder when Belles 
Kristin Greenwood, and

ju11ior midfielder Adrian Kirby 
Catherine Valent had one shot

passed the ball to Klink. Klink each.
di ·ected it to freshman Wendy 
"Even though the score

lr•,in for the Belles' first goal 
doesn't reflect it, I thought we

just a minute after the 
played a good game," ArtnakBritons' second tally. 

Columbia University's Biosphere 2:
said. "I can't believe we lost."
''I didn't think it was going 
The Belles, especially

to go in," Irvin said. "It was a 
Earth Semester in Oracle Arizona
Artnak, were extremely physi­shocker. 

cal, outfouling the Britons 8-2.
Klink passed it and there 

Fall 2001 and Spring 2002
Britons Stacey Supanich, Lizwas nobody there, so I took 

Hermiller, Lauran Gentry,

th,~ shot." 
Erica Williams, and Angela

After the initial flurry of Anagnost scored in Albion's
goals, the offensive guns were 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING
record-setting fifteenth win.

silent until the second half. Hriton goalie Annie Lerew
Saint Mary's opened the half wilh a quick shot on goal, and finished with 10 saves and allowed one goal in her second
continued the offensive pres­
Thursday, October 26
sure. llowcver, the Britons win. broke the Belles' defensive As Saint Mary's looks l'or­line to buUd their lead to 3-1 ward to its last game of the in the second half. season against Hope, it will 
5:00 pm 

The Belles were pressuring carry positives with it from the 
126 DeBartolo 

for a score for the remainder loss. 
of the game, but allowed two "I was happy with our first more Britons to score to end touch today," Milligan said. "A thn game 5-1. lot of the things we've been 
'It's unfortunate every time working on continue to 
sponsored by the Center for Environmental Science & Technology 
you lose. but we played really improve. Overall its the best wnll this game," Stephanie performance this team's had 
\(
.::er... c_;1!NTIO< flOU

Artnak, the Belles' leading all year." 
-onmental
Science & ·· ·: Technology 
d -uiauurityo{Ntnrt, DIUfU 


..----------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, October 25, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

Fox TROT 
MMM. A NICE HA HA. 
81(:, GLASS of THAT'S 
HUMAN SLoOD luST 
To START M'I' TOMATO 
DAY! J'UICE. 


BILL AMEND  
IT'LL TAl<E A LOT MoRE TH,._N THAT To (;,RoSS Mf oUT, LITTLE BROTHER. I ,, C  THE EXPIRATION DATE ON THE CAN WAS YESTERDAY. \  EW! 8LECCH! 01Sc;UST11,i(:,! GET IT AWA"r F~oM ME! _, \~ ~~ ... ,11  
-'tl  i;;":;,:,·l\.:.,_________....I  Voting for the lesser of two evils  

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2000 

ACROSS 28 Laverne and 61 Oval 
CELEBRITIBS BORN ON THIS your partner. 0000 1 Price of a Shirley's 63 Drive back 
DAY: Tony Franciosa, Minnie Pearl, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You movie? landlady 64 Forest clearing Tracy Nelson, Tom Eplin, Nick Thor-may want to blow your sta~. K~p 5 Wooer 65 Inkling
30 Roster pe, Lisa Trusel, Anne Tyler in mind that the repercussions will Happy Birthday: You will be pre-be greater than you expect. Financial
9 Some figures on 33 Beige 67 lavish affection 
cise, clever and resourceful in obtain-stabilization can be yours if you put
the Parthenon 35 Santa Anita (on) 
ing whatever you want. You will your money in a safe place. 000 14 Jacob's twin doings 68 Gourmand take action quickly and respond LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You 15 Leave the stage 40 Composer 69 Saxophone part courageously to opportunities that will have to refrain from any in­16 Become Schubert 70 At any point come your way. Your knowledge and volvement in romantic triangles. You 
harvestabfe 42 Yahoo! 71 What foxhounds talent impresses others and ensures will need to put your extra time into the support you need to accomplish refurbishing your living quarters. 
17 Begin to wake competitor try to catch 
your goals. Your numbers: 17, 23, 27, 00 
up 43 Miracle Whip 72 Wraps up 
31, 33, 39 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You
maker 73 Football
18 Duchamp's art ARIES (March 21-April 19): Use can expand your circle of friends and 
movement 44 Al_ (cooked linemen 
your creative talents to make extra meet new romantic partners if you 19 Easy_ yet firm) cash. Don't become angry over get involved in volunteer work. 20 British 
45 Delta deposit DOWN money matters. You can rectify the Property investments may look bet­problem if you are willing to put in ter than they really are. Be cautious.
conservative's 47 Nervous 1 What two-piece some hard work. 000 000 ' 
doctrine 48 Org. in which suits lack 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
22 Athenian or Colin Powell 2 Retort in a 
Look into specialty courses. Don't let 21): Career moves will be advanta­
Corinthian once served playground 
colleagues take credit for your work. geous. Concentrate on gettmg ahe~d 
argument

24 Place for a bar 50 Today, in Make arrangements to do something in the business world. Dealing with 26 "Carmen" and Tijuana 3 Nigerian with your lover. Unusual forms of emotional issues will be difficult. Be "Norma" 52 Met villains, currency entertainment will be exciting. affectionate rather than conversation-
often 4 Agave 0000 al with your mate. 000
27 Bannockburn 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Diffi-CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
boy 56 light-fisted folk 5 Nightstand spot 
culties in your personal life may get You will have difficulties with for­
6 Closing period 
a little out of hand. Someone you've eigners or while traveling in other 
in a semester 

been socializing with may not be as countries. An emotional dilemma
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Abet 
good a friend as you thought. Don't will result if you haven't faced a 8 Six-sided state Puzzle by Jim Morton let others take advantage of you. problem your partner has been com­
.....-i--...J-'-'-J IMAMS 

000 plaining about. 00
00 NATAL 9 Part of 31 Load from a 51 Alley_ 58 Item kept on Manhattan 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
i--+-+--+-0 T A lode hand
52 Sire 
will enjoy the company of others. Pitch in if you think your efforts will 
10 Passenger train 
32 Paddle 53 Object of many 59 Word with poly-Travel will be in your best interests. help those less fortunate. You may
feature 

34 Playbill list prayers 60 Prognosticators Explore new interests or educational want to re-evaluate your direction
11 Passenger train 
36 "Is it O.K. if I courses that will broaden your hori-and motives regarding your personal 
54 Old school item 62 Land west of
feature, maybe 

come in?" zons. Go after your goals. 00000 and professional life. 0000 12 Isabella, par 55 Allies (with) Wales LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Oppor-PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your
37 One who may

ejernplo 57 Belief system 66 Quiet sanctuary tunities to engage in money-emotional relationship will stabilize
be slapped

13 Olden daggers making ventures will surface. Be if you make plans to spend time 21 Girl "sweet as 38 Alphabet trio sure not to take on too much. You alone with your lover. Your need for 39 Pigs' digs Answers to any three clues in this puzzle should avoid discord by taking the adventure will be satisfied through
apple cider'' 

are available by touch-tone phone: time to explain your intentions to the connections you make. 000
23 Long stretch 41 Absolutely nothing 1-900-420-5656 (95it per minute). 
25 Herculean 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, ~~ving and loyal. You will ~e true to 
efforts 46 Clothes, slangily Annual subscriptions are available for the 
your family and stand behind the tra~1~ons and beliefs you are raised with. ORIO 
29 Lackluster 49 C.I.A. best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 You have creative talent and an entertalillilg nature. . SONI OP 30 Mail abbr. predecessor years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadv1ce.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
@ 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
------------------------------~----------------------~--------~----------­

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P,O. Box Q Notre Dam_e, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one ·semester 
Name __________.~~~·.~~---________:__ Address ,".\ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

Belles fight on 

Saint Mary's soccer comes closer to win over Albion than expected. 
page 26

PORTS 

O
THE 

page 28 BSERVER Wednesday, October 25, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 
]"ichigan loss ends Irish winning streak on the road 

FOOTBALL 
l)avie ;promotes improved offense 
Br KEVIN BERCHOU Sf,ort5 Writer 
While the strength of the Notre Dame football team has b,~en its defense all season long, h,~ad football coach Bob Davie "'as more eager to discuss his improved offense T1rnsday. 
With a once direc­tion -1 es s offense f i n a I I y establishing an identity, the whis­p,~rs of a pl)SSible BCS appearance are getting louder and louder. At 5· 2, Notre Dame is rolling, gather­ing not moss but momentum with every win as it approaches a home tilt with Air Force Saturday. 

After opening the season 1-1, the Irish were forced to alter their style of play with the loss of starting quarterback Ai:-naz Battle. After his replacement, sophomore Cary Godsey, experi­enced mixed results, Davie handed the reins to true fresh­man Matt Lovecchio who is 3-0 as a starter and is now entrenched at the position. 
In the loss to Michigan State, the offense struggled. with even its better stretches marred by bouts of inconsistency. But in wins over Navy and West Virginia, the Irish have improved by straying from an unsuccessful run. run, run game plan to Jet LoVecchio open things up a bit. 
"I think we've finally estab­lished ourselves offensively," Davie said. "Losing Arnaz set us back a couple of weeks. but late­ly I think we've showed we can spread the field and open things up a bit." 

Having to alter the offensive system to accommodate Godsey's abilities for both the Purdue and Michigan State games delayed the evolution of the offense. 
"At that point to do what we had to do, set us back a little bit," said Davie. "We became something we weren't and that took two weeks of our evolution. We kind of went backwards." 
In his weekly "state of the team address," Davie praised his offense's ability to metamor­phose. 
"We're improving each week. 
see FOOTBALL/page 23 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team ended its road winning streak with a loss to Michigan last Wednesday while edging Rutgers and Seton Hall at home to remain undefeated in the Big East. 
No. 21 Notre Dame fell hard in game one against Michigan, dropping the game 6-15. 
The Irish came back to threaten the Wolverines in the second and third games. With an 11-5 lead in game two, Notre Dame allowed Michigan to hack in lo the game at 14-12 b~~fore the Wolverines scored four points to secure the win. 
The Irish were again within game point in game three at 14-11, but fell apart as Michigan took the game for the match. 
"It was extremely disap­pointing," senior Jo Jameyson said. "It was a big learning experience for us in that we need to finish a game. We stopped playing and they beat us. When we're up, we need to finish it instead of stopping before we reach fifteen." 
Junior Kristy Kreher led the Irish with 13 kills. seven digs and six blocks while Jameyson added eight kills and four blocks. 
The Jrish came back strong 
after the loss to the Wolverines as they topped the Rutgers Scarlet Knights Friday 15-6, 15-10, 15-13. 
After victories in games one and two, Notre Dame got a lit­tle sloppy and the Scarlet Knights took the 7-1 lead before the Irish rallied for the win. 
Kreher grabbr,d 14 kills, 15 digs and five blocks while sP-nior D1rnise Hoylan racked up 43 assists, 11 digs and three blocks. 
With a win over the Seton Hall Pirates Sunday, the Irish advanced to 16-5 on the sea­son and 6-0 in thP-conference. All 12 Notre Damfl players not only saw court time in the match, but also marked at least one kill. 
Senior Christi Girton led the team with nine kills while Kreher added seven kills and three blocks. 
The Irish defense combined for 11 blocks while holding the Pirates' offense to a .000 hit­ting percentage in the match. 
"Everybody got to play and that was positive," Jameyson said, "But we need to domi­nate the Big East and we could have done better." 
Notre Dame will have that chance this weekend as it travels to St. John's and Connecticut for more confer­ence action. 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish focus on rest of regular season play 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Sports Editor 

While most students found rest and relaxation during fall break, the Irish men's soccer team experienced a week of highs and lows that culminated in a Sunday afternoon loss to Rutgers that mathematically eliminated Notre Dame from contention for a spot in the Big East tournament. 
Ending the break with a 2-2 record against four conference opponents, the Irish currently stand in tenth place in the Big East, ahead of only Villanova and West Virginia. which visits Alumni Field on Friday night. Even if they won Friday's final Big East game, they still cannot move up to eighth place, the finish necessary for making the eight-team postseason tourna­ment. 
Notre Dame started off its break in impressive f'ashion. St. John's, the top team in the Big East and ranked No. 10 in the nation overall, came to South Bend to take on the Irish on Saturday, Oct. 14. 
The Hed Storm got more than they bargained for from an Irish squad that knew that flvcry confcrnnce game was essential to making the post season. Behind an impressive Irish defense, the game remained scoreless until the 
82:52 mark, when freshman 
see SOCCER/page 25 

vs. Michigan State Men'~ Swimming Thursday and Friday, vr. Kalamazoo
SPORTS .,, Cross Country ~-3f:
. 

7:05 p.m. Friday, 6 p.m. 
Big East Championships
ATA 
at Boston Women's Swimming vs. Air Force 

.,, " 
Friday, 9 a.m. 

vs. Miami ~ Saturday, I :30 p.m. 
Friday, 5 p.m. 
GLANCE 






