:--________,_,...,... ... 

Waiting in Vain?
Woody Returns 
Former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet 

Wednesday

Huzz Ughtyear and his pal Woody make an 
awaits an extradition decision by the

appearance in the new Toy Story 2 
British government 
video game. 

JANUARY 19, 

WorldNation . page 5

Scene . page 12-13 
2000 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXX.llJ NO. 65 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Irish respond to NCAA sanctions 

Malloy accepts task force recommendation 
NCM hands Notre Dame its first major violation 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Nt·ws Writer 
Tlw sloriPd hislory of sports bn,wath Lill' c;ol(kn llomP took a major hit as Notre Dame ri•rnived its lirsHwm nu~jor violation 11!' NCAA n•gulalions. 
Tlin Notre• IJanw football program was ptacnd on probation !'or two yPars with tlw loss of one football scholarship during Pach nf" lhP nPxt two s11asons l'ollrm:ing tlw NCAA ruling that Notre Danw rnmmittPd a major violation in rngards to gifts to play.-rs by a univPrsity rPprnsm1tative. 
"This is nnt a good day l'nr Notre Dame," UnivPrsity presidt•nt Fatlwr Edward Malloy said in a pn'parNl statPmnnt. "\l\'p are embarrassi,d by Llwsn incic!Pnts, troubkd that they occutTC'd, ·and WP have lakPn a\"lion to deal with llrn issuPs involvPd. Notre Dame has a proud tradi· lion in athlf'tks. not only for doing well but also 
for doing righl." 
Noln' Danw has d<'("idt>d not Lo ,lppeal Uw pPnaltiPs. r<>solving insLPad to look towards the f'utun' ul" tlw progrnm's inh'grity. 
"A jury of nur p1!ers said that it was major 
and they gaw us a penalty," Malloy said to The 
Obs,•rv1\r. "\\'p will arl'Ppl this and move on." 
The Kim Dunbar case 
Tlw first sPt of PVPnts considPrcd in the caso 
involwd gil'ls given to l"oolball playt:rs by a 
Noln• Danw hoosl!1r. Kim Dunbar. bctwenn 
I 'J'J:{ and l'Jf)8. 
Dunbar \\"as rnrwictPd of' rmbPzzling from hnr 
l"ornwr ,·mploym· $1.4 million, much or whi<:h 
see NCAA/page 7 
S11ecial to The Observer 
Nntre · Dame pn(sidenl hlward Malloy has accepted l'(H'ornmP11dations. by tlw University's Task Force 011 Anti-swf'at~hop lnitiativ11s that, ronsislrn1t wiLh Catholic social t11arhing, tlrn Univnrsity pro­hibit lhP mnn ufacturH uf' lirPnsocl produrls in all cotrn­lril's. without PXrl'ption. which do not l'lH".ngniz(i the legal rights of workers lo organize. and that tlw Univ1irsi1.y neate a model l"acLory monitoring program to provide for joint monitoring by profossional auditori; and memlwrs of church. labor and human rights organizations. 
i\ third rncommcndation. that tlw LlnivPrsity requr.st full publir disrlosurn of manufac­turing sitPs by all its lif'ensees. 
already is being implemented. 
Malloy appointed the task force in March 1999. The 13­member group ii; composed of University faculty, students and administrators and three non­voting advisory members rep­nisenling adidas America, Sara Lf'P Corp. and Follett lliglrnr Education group, which oper­ates Urn University's bookstore. 
Tlw task force· is continuing to study swcatshoµ matters and intends to make a further recomnrnndation to Malloy later this year concerning the issue of a living wage for work­ers manufacturing licensed products. 
ThC' requirement of the right to organize, which will be added to the University's code of conduct and become part of its contractual agreem1.,nt with 
see SHOPS/page 4 
Martin Luther King Jr. Events 
. 
The Dream Through Father Hesburgh's Eyes Monday, Jan. 24 7 p.rn. Lafortune Ballroom 

. 
"Colors of the World" Wednesday,Jan. 26 6 p.rn. Lafortune Ballroom 

. 
Who We Are Today: Walk in the Light of Christ Thursday, Jan. 27 7p.m. Keenan­Stanford Chapel 




University plans to ensure that no further violations occur 
By MIKE CONNOLLY and KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
News Writers 

In the wake of being placed on probation by the NCAA, Notre Dame is emphasizing its promising future and continued commitment to high moral standards, not the disappointing violations of the past several years. 
"There are two things we must do better -one is we need to make every educational effort to commu­nicate the values of the institution and the behav­ioral expectations of the individuals," University president Father Edward Malloy said Dec. 17. 1999, to The Observer. "That may require a change of heart or a change in what people are accustomed to. I don't think anyone that comes here to play football or anything el<;e isn't ½illing to address those kinds of issues. 
"The second thing is we need to do a better job of being alertto signals that indicate those patterns," Malloy added. 
The University has taken a series of steps to ensure that no more violations will occur. 
One crucial factor is calling student athletes to be aware of their actions and the implications of those actions. 
"You cannot accept the benefits of membership in this {athletic] department unless you are prepared to accept the responsibilities as well." athletic director Michael Wadsworth ½Tote in a letter to all student­athletes on Dec. 22. "Every decision you face is an opportunity to repair the damage done by this case and earn back our hard fought reputation. 
"Disregarding your responsibility and engaging in poor decision-making will further dismantle the tra­
see RESPONSE/page 6 



ND community will honor King 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Editor 
The Notre Dame community spent the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday moving in and registering for classes, but next week, the University will sponsor events cel­ebrating King's dream and his legacy. 
Highlights of the week will include a talk by University presi­dent emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh and a panel discussion of students on diversity at Notre Uamo. 
Organizers hope events will help students gain an apprecia­tiou for King's message and an understanding of its timelessness. 
"We want to keep the movement alive," said Priscilla Wong, chair of the MLK celebration planning committee. "By celebrating the holiday we hope to do that. The issues may change. The ways of doing this may change, but the light is still there." 
Hesburgh, a former member of 


ream the. U.S. Civil High ts Commission, will speak of' his personal involvo­men t in the movement and his relationship with King. lie will also give his perception of what it's like to be a minority student at. Notrn Dame and of the current state of' diversity at the University. 
Wong said she hopes Hesburgh's stature in the commu­nity will help draw i;tudents and bring the movement closer to home. 
The Wednesday night panel dis­cussion will gather a group of stu­dents with differnnt backgrounds who will tell their stories about awareness of diversity, organizers said. It is based on a similar dis-
see KING/page 4 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, January 19, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Mysteries of Notre Dallle 
It's a nf'w semester and that means it's time to recap mystl'ries on campus, bolh new and old. 
For ex.ample. has anybody else seen the new "shopping rnrt barrier" in the SDI-I foym·'? What exactly is that for? l)o tlrny 
have a big problem with people taking things that roll from unc door to tlrn next while in between the doors'' 
Another thing I wonder about is the signs in Del3artolo tlrnt loudlv sr.niam: NO FOOD oh DH!l\K PERMl'ITED IN CIASS­llOOMS! Who pulo.; these up9 

Dof's ,myonc pay any aw~n­Laura Petelle 
tion to them? ls it not cnoL1gh that thorn arr no 
Assistant
posters posted in DeBartolo's stt>rilt> halh\ays? Are Wt> in 
Managing 
high school? Arr. we inra­Editor pable of dmming up after oursclvr,s wlwn Wf' £'at? 
As if Mother Natun' wen~ watr.hing us. aJ1.n a basically rlement first sRmester, it bRgan snow­ing the INSTANT student-; began arriving on campus. The lirsl day of class was filled with slush. D(> is a nightrnan•. Does the administration have a direct line to t;od? Do they call God up and say. ''Hey, we lhink it would be pretty funny if those professors and students had to slog through snow on their fist day back; could you arrange that for us?" Or is it sort of an indepen­dent smiting from God. perhaps a commentary on our athletic ethics? 
There are STILL no cloc:ks in ()'Shaughnessy. What is so hard about putting up a few docks? They managrd to put b(0 nrhes in Decio and hang the doors backwards on the tirst !loor of O'Shag to stop the "nose broken by swinging door" trend. What's so hard about clocks? 
Speaking of doc:ks and O'Shag, is the clock on the front of O'Sh,tg EVEH going tn work" 
Who in the rngistrar's office is out to get nw? When Isigned up for my classes, they were scheduled in normal places. Two of them were mowd. and now I begin on the third floor or DeBartolo. have Lo book it to 925 Flanner. and then back to O'Shag for my third class. What did I ever do to the registrar? I thought that was the one office on c:ampus I've managed NOT to irri­tate in my four years here. 
How mur.h did the Basilica spend on the der.o­rations for Advent? How much of that money could have gone to the CSC missions? Not that they weren't pretty.just that it makes you won­der. 
Do the voic:c mail lady and the DAHT man have something going on? 
Why is it impossible to extract lhe bottles from the soda mad1ines that dispense bottles'? Couldn't they have made the openings a little bigger to make it easier to get the bottles out? Does anybody else have this problem? Does any­body else feel like an idiot when five people are waiting behind you to get their soda and you can't get yours out of the machine? 
Who planned that winding road that goes from Main GaLP to the Hockne Memorial? It's far too narrow and everybody speeds on it. ft's only a mattPr of time. 
Why does Pveryone go to dinner promptly at 6 p.m.'1 Why is nobody CV(ff on time for anything else? 
How many more awards can Father Ilcsburgh win? Does he have them all yet? Where does he keep them? 
And linally. dews it bother anyone else when people pronounce it "Notra" Dame? 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Oh:,-erver 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Erin Piromek Mike V,mcg.is John Humm 

Graphics 
Kate Nagrngasr 
Mandi Powell Sports 
Production 
Mike Conollv 

Rachel Prort.mJn Viewpoint 


Lab Tech 
Colleen Caughcn Rersy Storey 
Tl1t Ohmwr (USP~ '>'!'/ 2-.000i i, published Mondar tliro11gl, Frid.,)' exct:p1 ,durinf! c.x.nn ,md v.1rnrio11 p('rio.ds. The Observer is ,1 nle-mher of rhe Asso,J;ucd Press. AH rt:produnion riAIHs ,Ire reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
New study finds that size does matter 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
When il comes to love, tall men tower over their c:ompetition, according to Polish researchers. ;\ rec:ent study out of Poland suggests that womcin are naturally attractnd to taller nrnn, possibly becaus(i females inherently think that they "could offor them the best protec:tion and provide for their needs," stated David Buss, professor or psychology at the University of Texas at Austin. British and Polish sci­entists examined the medical rec:ords of nearly 3,200 currrnt or previous Polish soldiers, whosf' ages ranged from 25 to (10 years old. Af'tnr a lengthy study. the scientists found that mr,n without children were on average 1.2 inc:hes shorter than males who had at least one child. Tim resnarchers also discov­ered that married men are a full inch taller than their non-married counlerparts. Previous studies have found that the average human height has grad­ually increased over lime, which was taken into ac:count for this study. The study eliminated abnor­mally tall or short men, leaving the average male height at 5 feel 6 inr.lrns. 



LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeathcr•lll fnrecas1 for daytime conditin-ns and high t.emperalltres 
H  L  
Wednesday  ~ ·!·~::=·.t·  29  19  
Thursday  ~ +,:::•.)·  24  10  
Friday  ~  25  15  
Saturday  ~  33  24  
Sunday  4 ·:.·,:::·.;·,:·  37  24  


Q,Q,Q9.~Q q ~ u 
Showers T-srorms Rain Flumes Snow fee Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon. Wednesday, Jan. 19. 
FRONTS; 
....,......r.a_a_y.a...r, 
@ 2000 AccuW&Rlher, Inc. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Proasu,e; 

® © D D ~ . D B <) 
High Low Showers Rain T~storrns Flurrl(!l.'J Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vie Assocmrad Prf;15tJ 

Atlanta 54 41 Las Vegas 68 48 Portland 46 36 
Baltimore 32· 23 Memphis 55 36 Sacramento 58 44 
Boston 26 16 Milwaukee 27 9 St. Louis 43 25 
Chicago 30 14 New York 28 24 Tampa 70 58 
Houston 80 58 Philadelphia 30 24 Wash DC 33 26 
Student faces trial for assault 
IIANOVEH, N.11. 

Sean Busby, a sPnior at Dartmouth, could fac<' up to sevPn years in prison and a $4,000 line for all<'gPdly assaulting a nurse at Dartmouth llitc.hcoc.k Medical CentPr and two studnnts in his South Fayerwnather rPs­idence hall last Spring term. Busby will stand lrial in the first wnPk of February. IlP is not currently nnrollPd at the College, Associatn 1)1\an or tlw Col\egn Dan Nelson said. Busby will be rliarg<>d wilh S(•cond !)()gr<'<' Assault. which is a class B r<'lony, for n~rklPssly caus<'d bodily injury without regard for human lif<' whnn lw allcgPdly choked a mal<' student. Grafton County Attorney Kr,n Anderson said. Ile will also be chargPd with possession or a control!(\d drug -mon) than on<' gram or psiloc:ybin mushrooms. This charge also counts as a class B folony. ;\crnrding to Anderson, tlw maxi­mum penalty for class B fcloni(1S is thn\e and a half lo seven years in a Nnw Ilampshire statP prison coupled with a $4,000 f'ine. In addition, Busbv will racP two counts of simple assault, a Class ;\ misdemeanor. Tlw maximum punishment for a class ;\ misd(•mcanor is one y11ar in a bousn or c01T(\clion and a $2,000 fin(). 
Wednesday 
. International Film Festival: "Haisc tho Hcd Lantern" (China). 8 p.m.. 
Montgomery Thratre, LaForturw Student Center 



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
l,!IS ANGELES 
With the bed stripped of slrnnts, lhe dPsk and r.loset empty and the nametag takPn off the door or his room, Michael Negrete is no longer a resident of UCLA's Dykstra Hall. 
As students deal with the far,t that Ncgrcte's parents have cancelled his housing cont.rad and that il has been more than a month since his <lisapp1mrnnce. Dykstrn Ila!! is plan­ning a fund-raising 1went to benelit thn search effort for the missing first-year under.larnd student. 
In the meantinrn, police continur, to look through Ncgrete's computer, hoping to come across information that may shr.d light on the case. 
"People are always calling in. and we follow up on evnry lead." said Nai1cv Greenstein. din•ctor of com­munity services for university police. 
But .as time passes. police are 
Thursday 
. Theatre: "Pride and Pr<:iudice," 7:30 p.m., Littln Thf'atrt>, Moreau Cnnter. Saint Mary's C.ollegP. Pcrf'ormed by Saint Joseph's lligb School. For info. call Tim Gonzales, 233-(11:n. 
"People are always calling in, and we follow up every lead. " 
Nancy Greenstein director of community services for university police at UCLA 
receiving fewer leads, shr added. 
Negrete disappnared from Dykstra Hall around 4 a.m. on D1ic. 10 af'ter logging off a r.omputer game he was playing with a friend across the hall. 
Negrete's family removed his pnr­sonal belongings from his room on Jan. 6, before students came back from winter break. 
;\ large yellow ribbon with mns­sages written by l\rgrntn's friends and lloormatr.s serves as one of the few remaining visible traces ol' Negretn's time spent on the sixth 

Friday 
. Opening reception and rededication: Hammns Gallery. 5:30 to 7:30 p.m.. Mornau Galleries, Saint Mary's College 
11oor of Dykstra I!all. "Mike, wherever you am. you ar(\ in our praynrs," reads one mnssagn. 
Another person writes, "We miss you a lot and hopn you come back soon. Tim lloor is definitely nowhern rwar tlw same or as good as it was with you." 
Hoss Wolf'. a first-year electrical enginePring st.udPnl and Nngrct<''s lrnst frie1nd on th(' floor. said sonw stud(\nts am opposed to having another studrnt move into Negretc~·s old room, but he said Im l'Pels this would allnviate some of tlw tension on the l1oor. 
"It's bC'LtPr not t.o have that empty spa<:<' as a remind<'r [of MichaP!'s absence!." Wolf said. 
IIP :-.aid that NPgrntn's unknown wlwr<•abouts addPd to th!' usual str<\ss or finals we1'k last quartl'r. 
Friday 
. Cinema at the Snite: 
"Eyes Wide Shut" (19991, 
(i:30 and 9::~o p.m.. Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of' Art 
Compiler/ from U-Wire reports 

Investigation for missing UCLA student contfnues 
-________ ,____________ L.""'I________
-..-,__________________..., 
__________________ .., 
Wednesday, January 19, 2000 1he Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


ND, Saint Mary's survive Y2K 
By ANNE MARIE 
MATTI.NGLY 
AssuciJ1c News Editor 
Noln• Ilame and Saint Mary's 
rnmputnr systnms oncountcrcd 
no snrious Y2K-rnlatod prob­
lems. according to MichaP-1 
Favllritt\ associati, dirnctor for 
Y2K complia11c1, and Saint 
'vlary's <lirnctor of Information 
Technology Jod CoopPr. 
'"W,,rn vnry pleased with how 
it went. \'\In were hnre at mid­
night ... lbutl we didn't have Lo 
go into any of our contingency 
plans." said FavoritH. "Systems 
art' up and ru1miug woll. Wo'vn 
rP!:!'ivcd no rnports or failurPs." 
Coopn indicalnd similar suc­
coss at Saint Mary's. 
"I vvatcht\d as it happened 
and the rollov1,r wen! just line. 
No iSSlll'S. ll!J surpris(~S. 
I]() 

problems.'' lw said. "Wo an~ 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Nt'WS \'I,. ri,cr 
Clmngl' is in Llw air al Nobll' t:111nily Dining llall 1111 Saint i',lary's t·ampus. Students rnLurning f'rom brnak weri• grPPLPd by a 1ww sPt up that n•lonlll'd sonw of the dining hall's mor(\ popular nwal choir­<'s. most notably tlw soup and salad bar. 
"I think il looks cool." said f'rl'shman Emily StorPr. 
Previously horsusho11-shapml. tlw soup and salad b,tr is now n'ai-r,rng,,d into an S. 
"It 111ak1•s it look a lol nic.-r." Dawn llarrnla. a su1d1•nt work­,,,. in LhP Dining Hall. said. "I think it will be awkward for tlw studPnt workl'rs until tlwy gr•t us,•d to iL" 
In addition. salads. both pasta registering stuclonts. pr(>cessing /\ fow minor Y2K-rolated financial information. running problems have bnen reported at payroll. he,iling buildings. and Notre Dame. Langthorne said, generally operating normally." but all have been easily fixed. 
Notre Dame's Information Technologies IOIT) dirnctor {) f 
Coordinator Services 
MichaHI 
Langlhorne indicated that all members of OIT staff worn on duty 
Office of "/\11 critical services were up and· running, We'vB seen 
"We've rPceived no very few prob­1cm s ... The
reports o.f.failures." 
problr,ms we've seen 

Michael Favorite 
have taken associate director only m inutcs of Y2K compliance tu correct," he 
Jan. 1 and Lhal a team spent tl1f1 critical midnight hour in the Computing Center and Mathematics Building. 
Cooper indic'.atcd that sHveral Saint t\lary's staffers were on duty while others remairn~d on call. 

Students laud dining hall changes 
¦ ¦ 
Meetings for Students and Young Adults are now available on campus. 

For information, please contact phone 631-7970 e-mail ND.aldrug.1@nd.edu 
and green, am created frnsh by staff directly at the salad bar. 
"Thi• sala·d man is wonderl'11!." Sarnh lfombusch said. "Th,~ new salad bar is a big improvement. Tlw food tasttis f'rnsh and I will actually go bar.k for 5econds." 
"I enjoy thP. varinty in the sntup," senior Christin Joy Rose said. 
Cof'fc1~. breads. bagels and desserts were moved to new locations, making the dining hall morn organizPd. 
"The flow is better," said sophomore .11111 Torma. 
The changes resulted from c:arnl'ul study or students' eating prcforcnc,1s and habits. Outs\de eating nstablishments wen' also analvz11d. 
"Wp made ftlw changflsl because we wanted Lo," Kevin 
Kirwan, Din,ctor nr Dining 
S1irvicns, said. "I saw an idea a:t 


said.  "Small  
things  may  
pop up  over the next couple of  
woeks  but  everything  

[appears I to be fairly straight­lbrward to fix." 
Favorite attributed the suc­cessful turnover to the student, faculty and staff preparedness and cooperation. 
a restaurant this summer in Toronto and brought it back. Over the coursf' of the semester we'll continue to fine-tune tho concept. We are testing new concupts and iduas. We don't have uny more plans for addi­tional equipment. [The foed­back] has been very positive." 
While these immediate changes ease thf' congestion in the dining facility, major reno­va tiou is still a year or two awav. 
"()n the horizon there is a new f'acility planned," Kirwan said. 
The new dining hall is one part ol' Lhe Master Plan. which will provide a large-scale face­lift for Saint Mary's campus. Kirwan was optimistic about the new dining hall's construction. 
"v\'c've taken a number of tours at uther cotleg(~s to take and capture th!' best," ho said. 
FACULTY SENATE 







Group seeks to 
expand influence 
By JOSHUA BOURGEOIS 
Assi5tanc t',;ews Fditcir 

The Faculty Senate passed a la.st-minutp, resolution regarding the President's Ad Hoc committee on academic and student affairs Tuesday night. 
Faculty Senatfl's academic affairs and student affairs committees will join and address the amount of input the senate has in the President's Ad Hoc commit­tee, the resolution stated. 
Currently, few faculty sen­ators am on thfl president's committee. However, Faculty Stinate wants to address the ability of the senate to have input, as a body. in this committee. 
After debating tho rele­vance of Faculty Senate addressing this issue. the resolution passed 27 to two. 
In the chair's report, Jean Porter announced that provost Nathan Hatch will addrnss Faculty Senate at its next meeting on Fob. 9. 
Also, Portflr said there will be a second Notre Dame Forum on Academic Life on Feb. 14. The topic will be 
"Arts and Letters; Departments, Institutes and Collective Resources." 
In other Faculty Senate news: 
. The committee on Student Affairs reported that members discussed minutes from a Dec. 13 meeting with reprnscmtatives.from the Cay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and The Observer editorial staff. The commit­tee hopes to meet with assis­tant to the president Chandra Johnson soon regarding proposed Observer advertising policy. 
The committee will also address grade inflation and graduation honors with the Academic Council. 
. Vice president and asso­ciate provost Jeff Kantor spoke to the committee on Academic Affairs. Kantor said ground will be broken on the Philosophy and Theology Building in March, and the building will be completed by 2001. Kantor also discussed the construc­tion of the Fine Arts build­ing. 
IN MEMORY OF LUCY BLANDHJRD PlLKlNTON 
A.B., M.A., PH.D. 
27 FEB 1943 --19 JAN 1994 
HEALTHCARE CAREER OPTIONS 
For women interested in pursuing acareer in Nursing or Healthcare Management 
ACCELERATED PROGRAM IN NURSING 
This program is for women with abaccalaureate degree as of May 2000 in any major other than Nursing 
• 
Earn aB.S. degree in Nursing in as few as 13 months 

• 
Program begins May, 2000 


SaintM$sColleg~ 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
For more information, please contort the Admission Office of (719)284-4587 FAX (219)284-4841 •http://www.soinlmorys.edu £-Moil: odmission@sointmorys.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 19, 2000 

Shops 
continued from page 1 
licensees. will requ.ire that all countries where Notre Dame licensed products arc made be signatories to the relevant international Labor Organization treaties and/or have national laws guarantee­ing the legal rights of free asso­ciation and union organizing. 
The provision specifies that "Employer created, mandated or sponsored organizations, such as company unions. do not satisfy the requirement." 
The prons1on effectively will prohibit the manufacture of Notre Dame-licensed products in China. The task force notes that some institutions have made china an exception to such requirements in the belief that the mav be able to influ­ence Chinese policy, but the task force "believes such spe­cial country exceptions tend to swallow the rule and that lob­bying licenses is unlikely to haw• much of an impact upon the policies of ... the Chinese government." 
While the provision of neces­sity relies on international and national labor laws. the task force emphasizes its grounding in Catholic social teaching, which "has long recognized the rights or workers throughout the world to form labor unions and engage in collective bar­gaining." 
Because of the need for licensees to shift production form non-compliant countries such as China, the requirement will be phased in. with full implementation no later than June 30, ;mo I. 
The recommendation on monitoring calls for Lim i:rc­ation of a pilot program in Mexico and Central i\merica, where Notre Dame has exten­sive contacts with Church, labor and human rights organi­zations. Drawing on these con­tacts, a monitoring committee will be established with one or more representatives from each countrv where Notre Dame product"s are made, as well as faculty and administrators with relevant expertise or contacts and a representative of Price Waterhouse Coopers, which the University retained last year to audit factories. 

The monitoring committee will work closely with University officials in identify­ing factories to be monitored. Monitoring teams will be made up of both Prio~WaterhouseCoopers audi­tors and the appropriate com­mittce members or their designees from the church, labor and human rights organi­zations most familiar with the local situation. The full commit­tee will review all monitoring reports and complaints involv­ing factories in the region and will advise the University on appropriate follow-up mea­sures when problems are iden­tified. 
The recommendation of pub­lic disclosure of all manufactur­ing sites of Notre Dame licensed products formalizes action initiated in November 1999, when the University sent a request for public disdosure to all ils lice ns1 , . 

King 
continued from page l 
cussion that took place last January about diversity at Notre Dame. 
"We're going to have people share their stories." Wong said. The discussion was one of the highlights of last year·s King celcbrn.­tion. It is co-sponsored by the Student Union. 
The week will culminate Thursday ewining in a prayer service and procession down "forth Quad. 
"Prayer is the part that brings us all together," Wong said. The service will be open to all, she said, and will take place in Keenan-Stanford Chapel. 
The planning committee is made up or a collection of students and administrators from across campus. They have worked since September to plan tlrn week-long cel­ebration. 
Organizers hope events will expose stu­dents to issues of diversity on campus and in the world around tlrnm. and will help them to see tlrn broad nature of King's mes­sage. . 
"lt offers Notre Dame students an oppor­tunily not only to experience the progress of race relations at Notre Dame but also see that in the context of that progress in U.S. and the world." said freshman Ken Seiferl, a committee member. 
Another committee project is a speech contest in honor of King's oratory. 
Participants will submit an essay on realizing the dream of the slain civil rights leader. 
The winner will give his or her speech at the Blak Coffee House on Feb. 18 and will receive a scholarship to attend the Civil Rights Seminar over spring break. 


Rolfs SPORTS RECREAnDN CENTER DEPARTMENT Of ATHLETICS UNIVERSITY of Nom DAME 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 
In-Line Hockey  Sundays  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-l0:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-10:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  
Badminton  Saturdays  9:00-11 :00  


Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes are in session. 
Univ. Laundryffanning at the Campus Shoppes 1813 South Bend Ave. 
Monda Dollar Day Tanning Tuesda Senior Day Free Drying For Senior Citizens 
Wednesda Free Hot Dogs Thursda Students Free drying w/College ID 
.45¢ Drop OffAll Month Till Feb. 29th 




January l 9, 2000 COMPILED FH0M THE OBSERVEH WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Kaczynski says guilty plea coerced 
SAI\J FRANCISCO 
Convict,•d Unabomber Thno<loni Kaczynski says hP was t·opn•ed into pleading guilty to Lhn•r, murders and wants a federal appeals rnurt to allow a trial. which could end in a dPalh snnlnncr, Tim l{uilty pleas "were induced bv LhP thr1•al of a mcntal-statr. dP!'Pns" th;tt Ka('zynski would hav<' round 111wndurablt>. as w<'ll as by rh•privation _of con­sti!utionaJ rights." such as tlw right to control his own ddcnsp and rPprcsnnt himself, ho \-\TOW. In a :>8-pagn. handwrittPn brir.f'. com­posPcl in a maxi rnum-st>curiLy f'edcral prison in Colorado. Karzvnski askPd tlw (Jth U.S. Cirruit Court of' .\ppPals to bl' allmwd lo withdraw his guilty plnas and go Lo trial. As an alternatiw, lw rl'qtu's!nd a 1ww l'.S. District Court h<'ar­ing. bPfotT a dilT('n·nt juclg<'. on wlicthcr his riii;hts WNP violatPd wlwn his lawyers insistPd on using a dPf1•ns1' basPcl on his nwntal ('ondi­lion. 
Microsoft disagrees with judge 
WASIIINGTON 
Microsoft C:orp. told a f<'d!'ral judgP Tuc·sday it "rr•spf•ctl'ully disagn•es" wilh his ruling that tlw rompany is an abusiw monopoly. arguing that il d1)('sn't rnnlrol thr> prin· or availability 01· softwar<' lo run tlw world's pPrsonal com­pt1ll'l'S. Shunning tlw monupoJist !abf'l aflixPd by l.S. DistrirL .ludgl' Thomas PPnfield 
larkson. ~licrosol'l ·s lawy!TS n'pPat<~d carliPr ass<•rtions that tiw .i udgn inappropriatPly con­sidPn'd as tlw !'ompany·s only eompl:'tition otlwr sof'twarP that runs lntPl-nm1patible PCs. "This purportc1d markPt is too narrow ... bPcausP il nxcludcs many of' tlw most serious rompetitivP thrPats l'arPd by Microsoft's oper­ating systnms." tlw lawyPrs _wrotP. "Having an Pxln!nwly popular produrt docs not make the !'ompany a monopolist." 
India, Pakistan warned to tone it down 
lSlAMABAD, Pakistan 
Three VS dc•lcgations arc whirling through Pakistan this wcPk. all carrying the same mes­sage for tlwir host and neighboring India: "Turn down thP lwat." Last month's hijacking of' an Indian Airlines plarn~ unlPaslwd a blistering war of words bPl\VPPn tlw two rival countriPs -who also happ1!n to be tlw world's newest nuclear pm-rnrs. Pakistan's military IPadPr. Gen. PPrvPz l\:lusharral'. has wanwd India he's not a man to turn Llw otlwr clwck Lo tlw rnlcntlcss "11ak from arross the bord(•r." S.K. Singh. a former lop ofli­cial in India's Fon\ign Ministry. responded that Musharraf's commPnt was regardPd as "a thrnat. which we takP vnry seriously." 
Analyst'i foar thn verbal sparring rould take both countries. which haw fought three wars. back to thP battlf'f1Pld. 



,, •Mt&illt~I:· 
Dow 1~!~~: 
}ONES +16.60 
Nasdaq: 4130.81 
+66.'i4 
NYSE 

643.92 -~_85 

S&P ~00: ('ompo~ife 1455.1-1 \'olumc:ll.560.72 -10.01 I ,08:'i.700,000 

VOLUME LEADERS 

t011:AtiX  '.UtU8  l  ~tl&Wlt:  I  ~lia.H!;il  i:Bl~I  
LU~!.tff '!'KC'H xwr:u CORP  LU INTC  ~s.!9 -0-91  -2. 88 -0 .94  50.SO 1-0:a.u  
M!Cfl:OSO.FT CORP  N,.':if'T  -.2.73  -t-3. 06  115. 31  
DELL COMPUTER CISCO SYS'l'El<tS  OliLL CSC'O  -l.U ....13  -1. 9{.......  42 .06" 112.00  
AMERlCA OW...INE  AOL  -3.16  -2.00  61.25  
MC! WOR.LDcON  m  WCOH  -,.n  -2. o,  , ... 50  
TTCO IN11'L LTD  nc  -t-14. '70  +S.ll  (0.00  
COMPAQ COMPtnER  CPQ  +1 . .25  +0.38  30.U  
SUN MtCROS'fSTEM  SUNW  +O. • 7  +O. 37  80. 7 5  

SPAIN 

Spanish politicians and artists in Madrid demand the extradition of former Chilean dictator, Augusto Pinochet to Spain from London, England. Their signs read, "We want justice" or "Pinochet Murder." 





Pinochet awaits extradition decision 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

As Gen. Augusto Pinochet waited under house arrest for a ruling that could set him free, Britain, on Tuesday, allowed Chile to send a plane to stand-by to take the former dictator home. 
Human rights groups, battling to the finish line for the 84-year-old gener­al's extradition, lodged formal objections to the serrer·y of' the medical report that might allow him to avoid trial in Spain on torture r.harges. 
Amnesty International and three other groups also said the conclusion of four British doctors, who Britain's top law enforce­ment official said believe Pinochet is too ill to stand trial, "may not reflect the general's true condition." 
Pinochet, who was arrested 15 months ago after back surgery in London, wears a pace­maker, has diabetes. has difficulty walking and has suffered three minor strokes. 
The general has the right to raise his medical · condition, Amnesty's Secretary General Pierre Sane told reporters. But 

· Sane added that "the vic­tims of his administration and those representing them have the right to see the medical evidence and challenge it if they so wish." British Home Secretary Jack Straw, who has the final decision on extradi­tion. said last week that he was inclined to send Pinochet home after see­ing the medical report. He­then gave human rights groups and the four coun­tries with extradition war­rants -Spain, France, 
Albright: Document leak hurt peace effort 
Frcnch observers. 

The Clinton administra­tion. in its role as mediator between Israel and Syria, had asked both sides not to disclose what was being said in closed-door negoti­ations outside Shepherdstown, West Virginia. 
A purported account of the talks appeared, howev­er. in a Saudi newspaper that is published in London, while anonymous "sources" provided some information to reporters covering the talks. prior to the Ilaaretz account. 
Meanwhile, tho State Department spokesman, 
Switzerland and Belgium -until Tuesday to make submissions. 
Amnesty International protested jointly with the Redress Trust, the Medical Foundation for the Care of Victims of Torture, and the Relatives of the Disappeared. 
"We still hope justice will prevail." said Helia Lopez, speaking for the latter group at Tuesday's news conferenre. "It is our last hope." 
The groups said they also objected to the lack of an old-age psyrhiatrist on the medical team. 

James P. Rubin, held daily briefings, with guarded and limited accounts of how the talks were pro­gressing. 
While the leak to Haaretz indicated Syria was mak­ing concessions to Israel, reports last weekend from the region suggested Syria was upset with publication of parts of the document. 
Syria subsequently declined to attend the negotiations, and the talks were suspended. Administration officials suggested the main reason was that both sides had insisted on their demands getting priority attention. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Publication of the stands taken by Israel and Syria in now-suspended negotia­tions hurt U.S. efforts to promote a settlement between the 1.wo longtime foes, Scr,retary of State Madeleine Albright said Tuesday. 
While Mfordng a "com­plete blackout" of informa­tion is difficult, it is also "very hard to carry on diplomatic negotiations of this type" when there are leaks. Albright said. 
"They were unhelpful," Albright said, without elaborating on how parts of the U.S.-drafted docu­ment may have con­tributed to the suspension of negotiations that had been scheduled to resume Wednesday. 
A leak to the Israeli newspaper Haarctz por­trayed Syria as having offered Israel full diplo­matic relations and arrangements on trade. tourism and transportation in exchange for the strate­gic Golan Heights border enclave. 
It also depicted Syria as offering to provide Israel with an early-warning sys­tem manned by U.S. and 






-~---~---------~----------~---------------------------------------------------------, 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, January 19, 2000 
their athletes. "The one thing the NCAA rec­
Response 
ommended," Malloy said, "was continued from page 1 that we be more rigorous in 
_____________ encouraging associates to fol­ditions held dear by those who low through to the administra­have gone before you, those tors and the University NCAA who hope to l(illow you and the enforcement oflice in any case very teammates with whom where there is a question of you share your four years," he doubt." added. If an assistant football coach To reiterate these cxperta-had followed through on his tions. Malloy and Wadsworth knowledge of the potentially held a mandatory meeting for problematic relationships in the all student athletes Monday. Dunbar case. Notre Dame may At the meeling, the athletes have avoided NCM sanctions. vit>wed a film outlining the Notre Dame coaches were Kimberly Dunbar case and the already expected to closely violations involved, a varsity monitor the alhleles' behavior. athlt'h~ reported. Following the "We have built into our job video. Malloy and Wadsworth description for our coaches and spoke about each athlete's need also for our assistant coaches to understand that his decisions that they have a special rcspon­concern not only bis own future sibility not only for the perfor­but the future of the University mance athletically but also for as well. thi> whole student," Mallov stat­''Your very status as a Notre ed. "We need to be especially Dame student-athfote is one alert l1ir signals that something shared by a very select group," might be awry. That .is a form Wadsworth wrote. "The bone-of an early warning system." fits and opportunities you enjoy The new early warning sys-must not be taken for granted." tern requires coaches to go Malloy acknowledges that directly to the compliance divi­increased awarnness by coach-sion of the athletic department es and adminisLralors can only if they have any concerns about accomplish so much. Without improper behavior. the cooperation of athletes, the "We have instituted an ·early University would be unable to warning' communications poli­prcvent future violations, he cy in athletics which requires said. immAdiate reporting of any sit­"ls it possible to monitor uation that suggests improper everyone's dating patterns and conduct or potential L'niversity friendships? No way," 1\falloy or l\iCAA rules violations," said. "Is it possible for any insti-Malloy said. "The policy also tution to oversee everyone's states that failure to act in such decisions? No way. I think it is a situation will itself be consid­ve ry difficult for rectors in ernd a serious matter." dorms, teaclrnrs in classrooms The University is also enlist­and coaches and athletic direc-ing the assistance of those in tors or heads of glee clubs or the Notre Dame community. whatever to know what is going "We are also guing to ask the on with every person under cooperation of other members their supervision. But I think of this community," '.vlalloy we need to do a better job said. "Whv didn't students because there are not only come forwird and sav, { think university implications but also there is something a~·y? If we with the NCAA." ran get people to help us In addition to the NCAA viola-understand what is going on, tions. l\lalloy expressed disap-then maybe we can prevent µointment with the sexual these problems in the future." activity of' football players in In responsP. to the findings of' violation of du Lac and Catholic the NCAA. Notn~ Dame has dis­moral tP.achings. bandPd the Quarterback Club "The thing that disappointed as well as all other !'an clubs for me with what was revealed in varsity sports. that case was the violation nf According to Malloy, the our expectations for students NCAA staff said no other uni­with regards to sexual activity versity has evPr taken such a and the value svstern of the drastic step. Dunbar's member­players," Malloy said. "The ship in the Quarterback Club choice of lifestvle is a concern establislrnd lwr as a booster to me as a person and as a and led to the violations. priest." Malloy and the rest of the Since the probation was administration hope these steps announced, the athletic depart-will restore Notrn Dame's repu­ment has expanded its required tation as a model for academic, personal development program athletic and ethical standards. for all athletes to nearly 40 "We have high standards for hours over four years. the conduct of athletics at Notre "The program educates stu-Oame and we will not compro­dent-athletes to make the right mise those standards," Malloy decisions on difficult issues said. "Notre Dame has a proud including drinking, gambling, tradition in athletics. not only and University and NCAA l'ordoingwellbutalsnfordoing rules," Malloy said in a pre-right. We regret these inci­pan•d statenwnt. dents, and I pledge my own and Notre Dame is also seeking to my administration's most dili­instill a greatPr awareness by gent efforts to avoid such prob­coaches of actions taken by \ems in the future." 
Bradley, Gore highlight differences 
As.sodate<l Press 
OTTUMWA, Iowa 
Searching for momentum us the presidential nominating sea­son nears, Democratic rivals Al Gore and Bill Bradley sketched "sharp differences" but Gore made his case before packed houses while 13radley sought a captive audit>nce. 
Speaking at a community col­lege forum Tuesday, Gore was forced to apologize for his tardi­ness -he'd taken time to min­gle with more than 200 backers that the local firn marshal wouldn't lcl into the room. 
"I've had a chance to have a dialog with you during this cau­cus campaign, now I need your hGlp," Gore shouted. "I feel pas­sionate aboul this." 
With most polls showing Gore with a coml'ortablu lead in the leadoff Iowa caucuses Monday night. he rumbled across the state to a series of grassroots organizing events designed to assure that backnrs show up. 
"En(~rgize and mobilize" was how aide Chris Lehane described the effort, with little focus on new proposals and a lot of Affort on lighting a fire under backers. 
Bradley, seeking to lower expectations about his showing, headed to an Iowa City high school. where aides said he hoped to energize young voters who are eligible to participate in the caucuses. 

"You can still make this hap­pen," Bradley told students. "If you support me. I'll love you. If you don't support me, I'll still love you. But if you did support me, I'd love you a little bit more." 
There's little precedent for young people participating in caucuses, and efforts by state election ollicials to involve high school students this year fizzled. A more likely explanation was showing up at a high school guarantees a crowd -some­thing Bradley has struggled with recently. 
Both rivals diverted to New Hampshire today, but were headed back to Iowa 011 Thursday for the duration of' the caucus campaign. · 
Both also played tlrn (mdorse­ment game. Gorn lrnaded to 11 jammed union hall in Knoxville on TUf~sday to accept the back­ing of the American Federation of Governnrnnt Employees, which reprnsc•nts largely foderal government workers. Hundreds are -employed at a local Veteran's Administration hospi­tal and the union is a force in local politics. 
Bradley aides also touted the lirst governor to sign on with their campaign. Oregon Gov. 
John Kitzhaber. That was to be announced today. He was being matched by Vermont Gov. Howard Dean, who planned to endorse the vice president today. 
Gore, miles ahead in the endorsement game, traveled tlw state Tuesday with popular Democratir Rep. Leonard Boswell, who represents the southern portion of the state. 
Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa has filmed commercials on his behalf, and three members of the Cabinet were running around the state on his behalf last weekend. 
Bradley is not without eudorsenrnuts, and Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey w11s to be in Iowa today to film campaign commercials. 
Days before the voting actual­ly begins. both sides wern play­ing the expectations game. Bradley aides wcmi arguing that collecting even 30 pPrcent of the votn in Iowa should be seen as a moral victory because most of the party's estal)lishment is in Gore's camp. · Core aidP.s quickly noifid that Bradley is spnnding more money than Gon• in Iowa, and investing more campaign time in the statP. 
"You don't make all those commitments unless you're playing lo win." said Lehane. 

Love. Jeff and the girls 



Got smarts? Write for Observer news. Call 1-5323 for more info. 
_______,__________________________~-,-:-------------------· 
Wednesday, January 19, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
have understood Dunbar's rep­to relationships and' gift-giving resentation of Notre Dame and and NCAA violations. All we 
Irish among schools

NCAA 
the NCAA. can do is accept the final judg­
continued from page 1 
s-ho used to purchase lavish gilb and trips for various foot­ball players. 
"The violations were major because of the length of time ovor which thny occurr<'d," the committP.n rnµort said, "The extravagant naturn of' gilts and benefits that were provided to the football student-athletes, the competitive advantagP gained by tho University in as much as the univHrsity contin­uml to use student-athletPs who wore lator dnclarnd inc!igiblo, and the fact tlw violations worn neither isolated nor inadvnr­
ll'lll." 
.,\ complaint tiled in superior court in Snulh Bend by Dunbar's former employnr. .Jnrry Dominiack, Sf'eks repay­ment for thP money or gifts rccnived by tho play1:rs from Dunbar. according to ESPN nnws services. The complain!. lists eight play,irs. including Jarvis Edison, whose gifts were JH\rmissible bBcausP lw has a 1wrsonal rPlationship and child wilh Dunbar. 
The p('naltins partly spawns reports that an assistant coach l1)arned in 1996 I.hat Dunbar had paid !'or a I.rip to Las VPgas for hcrsell'. Edison, another player and his girlfriend. The coach said Im did not notify the NCAA bentus(i he bdiPv•~d the gifts wcrn accnptablf! bPc:ause of' !lw romanlic lnvolvenrnnt betwP1rn Dunbar and Edison, acrnrding to tlw NCAA report. 
"If he had notilied sonwmw," committP1' chair .lack FriPd1•nthal said in a telecon­fprem:c on DPc. 17. 1999. "then pPnallies might w<'ll haw bPen avertnd." 
According to tlw NCAA, 
Dunbar bncamn a Notre Dame 
booster on Ju1rn 22. 1995, wlwn slw paid $25 t1i join tlrn JJO\\'-disbancfrd Quarl1!rback Club. Two NCAA groups, how­PV<'r. t"ould not dPcidP wtwther Dunbar was. in fact. a rnprn­s1intativ1' ol' the University's athlnlic intlmists. 
It look an oversner's votl~ in a ticbreaknr to detcrmi1w she was a booster. leaving many to wondPr how athl1itns should 
"l make no claims about the ment in this case." system of the NCAA," Malloy Secondary violations provide said in an interview with The only a limited recruiting or Observer on Dec. 19, 1999. "It competitive advantage, and are is a bit convoluted, but I pre­isolated or inadvertent in sume that the people involved nature, according to the NCM. 
in it am peo- Other vio­ 
ple of' integri­ty and are trying to do  "This hard work. dedicaiton, and sacrifices  lations. par­ticularly those pro­ 
what 'is right." The Eric Chappell case In t Im sP-c­ made by several genera­tions ofNotre Dame student-athletes has been undermined by the facts of this case. its sensational publicity, and the resulting  viding an extensive recruiting or competitive advantage, are consid­ered major.  
ond series of violations, rl'serv(' quar­lrirback Eric Chappell  penalties. " Mike Wadsworth athletic director  Public Perception Early hype over the  

attempt<id to sell his com­plimentary game tickets to his girlfriend, a part-time tutor for lhc1 University, and her friend. 
Thi• tutor was also found to have prepared an academic paper for a student athlete. Darcey Levy, who left the foot­ball team before the 1999 sea­son. paid t'or the paper, a per­son familiar with the report lOld the Chicago Tribune. 
This second set of violations came to light in September, during the 21 months of inves­tigation of the Dunbar case. 
NCAA assess penalties 
The NCAA Division Committen on Infractions con­sidered both series of violations when lnvying penalties. The committmi concluded that the violations wern major in both casns. despite the recommen­dation of the University and the :'JCAA enforcement staff that the violations were secondary. 
"Part of our testimony in our hearing revolved around this disagreement between the enforcement staff and the com­mittce," Malloy said. "The NCM said in the press confer­ence today [Dec. 19J that every case was different. and my impression was that there was nD pnicedent for this kind of incident with the NCAA. We are in uncharted waters in regard 

FITNESS SCHEDULE ~ 
RSRC Activity Room 1  
1  12:15-12:45  Cardio Box (ends 5/17)  
2  12:15-12:45  Step I (ends 5/19)  
3  3:45-4:45  Cardio Sculpt  
4  4:50-5:20  Arms n'Abs  
5  5:30-6:30  Interval Step  
6  8:30-9:30pm  Cardio Box  
7  4:25-5:25  Step I  
8  5:30-6:30  AeroStep  
9  8:30-9:45pm  PowerStep n'Pump  
10  9:45-10:45am  Step II  (ends 3/11)  
11  10:55-11:lSam  All Abs (ends 3/11)  
12  4:15-5:30  Step II n' Sculpt  
13  5:40-6:00  All Abs  
RSRC Activity Room 2  
14  4:15-5:15  Cardio Box  
15  5:25-6:10  Flex n' Tone  
16  7:00-8:lSam  Step II n'Sculpt  
17  4:15-5:15  Hi Intensity  
18  5:25-6:10  Lo Impact  


SPRING 
2000 
MW  $25  
F  $12  
MJW/F  $38  
M/W/F  $29  
M/W/F  $38  
M/W  $27  
TfTh  $26  
T/Th  $26  
T!Th  $33  
Sa  $7  
Sa  $5  
Su  $14  
Su  $10  
M/W  $27  
M/W  $27  
tfrh  $33  
T!Th  $26  
T/Th  $26  

ROCKNE CLASSES Room 301 19 5:30-6:30 Step I MIW $27 20 1.2;15-12:45 Flex n'Tone (ends 5/18) T/fh $26 21 5:20-6:20 Step II T/fh $26 
AQUATIC CLASSES Rolfs Aquatic Center 22 12:15-12:45 Aquacise (ends 5119) M/W/F $34 23 7:00-8:00pm Aquacise T/Th $26 
KNOCKOUT WORKOUT 24 8:45-10:00pm Joyce Center (ends3/16) T/fh $20 REGISTRATION 
Thursday, January 20, 7:30am, RSRC. Registration takes place throughout the semester. Schedule is subject to change. Minimum of 12 class registrants. Classes begin the week ofJanuary 24 and unless noted, end the week of May 1. Call 1-6100 with questions. 
committee's 
pending decision predictPd that Notre Dame would be used as an example, perhaps because of' the school's reputation for high moral standards. 
Following the decision, some criticized the NCM for not giv­ing harsher penalties to go with tho major violation. Critics thought Notre Dame should have lost more scholarships, had its TV contract with NBC penalized, or even been declared bowl-ineligible. 
On the other side of the debate, Notre Dame supporters argued that a dubious connec­tion between Dunbar and the school was not enough to war­rant a major violation. 
They claimed Notre Dame was singled out for its status as an upper-class private institu­tion, pointing to the fact that virtuaJiy all major violations involve a coach in some way. 
"This has been a difficult three years for Notre Dame," athletic director Michael Wadsworth wrote in a letter to student athletes obtained by The Observer. "The hard work, dedication, and sacrifices made by several generations of Notre Dame student-athletes has been undermined by the facts of this case, its sensational pub­licity, and the resulting penal­ties." 

feeling NCAA's wrath 
Observer Staff Report 

Notre Dame was far from the only university to find itself in trouble with the NCAA in 1999. Excluding schools appealing previous cases, 11 different Div. I and II schools reCfiived sanctions from the NCM. 
Alabama, Kansas State, Wisconsin. California State­Fullerton, Purdue, Bucknell, Michigan State, Morgan State, Arkansas-Little Rock and Notre Dame were the 10 Div. I schools to be investi­gated and found to be in vio­lation of NCAA rules while Saint Joseph()s College was the only Div. II school guilty of NCAA violations. 
Nine of the 11 schools sanctioned by the NCAA received major violations while just two schools were assessed with secondary vio­lations. Only Morgan State and Arkansas-Little Rock escaped with secondary vio­lations. 
In the cases of Wisconsin, Notre Dame and Michigan State, the enforcement com­mittee recommended to the infractions committee that the violations were sec­ondary. In each case the infractions committee, made up of volunteers from mem­ber institutions and law firms, overruled the enforce­ment committee that consists of NCAA employees. 
Head or assistant coaches were implicated in nine of the 11 cases. Kansas State and Notre Dame were the 
We know it's hard to have a happy birthday without us Brian ... but try! 

HAPPY 22ND BCHURNEY! 
Marcie, Leener, CDutt, Mara, Keego & Laura 

only schools where members of the coaching staff or administration were found to be innocent of violations. 
Violations committed by coaches ranged from using boosters to secure an illegal loan for a prospective stu­dent athlete (Alabama) to holding practicPs out of sea­son (St. Joseph's). 
Seven cases involved illegal recruiting. Only Notre Dame, Kansas State, Wisconsin and Morgan State did gain a recruiting advantage from their violations according to the NCM. 
Alabama, Kansas State, Wisconsin and Michigan State all fell under the cate­gory of "repeat offenders" since they each had commit­ted separate major violations in the past five years. 
Punishments for the viola­tions ranged from extension of probation imposed by pre­vious violations (Michigan State) to reduction of schol­arships available. The most severe reduction in scholar­ships occurred at St. Joseph's where two scholar­ships were stripped from the men's basketball program for the 1999/2000 season. Five of the 11 schools, including Notre Dame, lost scholarships as part of their punishment. 
Notre Dame was one of three programs with viola­tions to occur within the football program. The NCAA also reprimanded Kansas State and Morgan State's football programs. 





Biologists conduct rescue 
Associated Press 
LITTLE TORCH KEY, Fla. 
Marine biologists con­

ducted a second rescue 
operation to push a group 
of stranded dolphins into 
deeper waters off one of 
the Florida Keys Tuesday. 
The National Marine 

Fisheries Service and the 
Coast Guard lured nine dol­
phins with bait and escort­
ed them to deeper waters 
off Little Torch Key, Florida 
Marine Patrol Officer David 
•Dipre said. 
The stranded dolphins 

were pushed out to sea 
with human help in J.he 
first rescue attPmpt 
Monday, but some returned 
to sh.allow waters by 
Tuesday morning, said fish­
eries service spokeswoman 
Blair Mase. 
Three more bottle-nosed 

dolphins died in the latest 
stranding, bringing to 28 
the number of dolphins that 
have died since the mam­
mals started getting stuck 
in tidal flats Sunday night, 
Mase said, 
"It's very hard for these animals, once they're in shore, to navigate them­selves off shore," she said. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 19, 2000 

This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday, December 6 through Monday. February 7 l 03 Hesburgh Library Freshman Retreat #27 (Feb.11-12) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, Posquerillo East, St. Edward's, Siegfried, Walsh, and Zahm 
Monday, !anuary 17 through Friday, February 4 l03 Hesburgh Library Senior Retreat (February 11-12) Sign-Up 
Friday-Saturday. !anuary 21-22 St. loe Hall MBA Retreat-"Holding It All Together" 
Friday-Saturday. lanuary 21-22 Lindenwood Learning To Talk About Race Retreat 
Saturday. january 22. 11 :00 am-2:00 pm Lewis Hall Basement Africentric Spirituality: Freshmen Intro Spring Retreat "The Plunge -Phase 2" 
Sunday, !anuary 23 ND Room. LaFortune Studenl Center RCIA Session 
Sunday, ianuary 23, 7:00 pm Montgomery Theatre. laFortune Student Center Africentric Spirituality: Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly 
Sunday, lanuary 23, 11 :45 am Basilica of the Sacred Heart Confirmation Program: Rite of Welcome 
Monday, !anuary 24. 7:00 pm Lafortune Ballroom Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday 2000 
The Dream Through Fr. Hesburgh 's Eyes: A personal reflection on Martin, the Movement and their realities at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, !anuary 25, 7:00-8 30 pm Siegfried Hall Chapel Confirmation-"We Pray What We Believe" 

Now that Jubilee 2000 is finally here. it's time to start acting like it. This Jubilee year is 
a "year of favor from the Lord" (Isaiah 61:2). The Jubilee has its roots in the Hebrew 
Scripture when Nevery 50th year was proclaimed a special time of giving honor to 
God, allowing O iO for a time of rest, and restoring relationships and equal­
ity among all pr r peoples. In short, it was a time for reconciliation and 
renewal. This invitation to renewal is exoerienceone all of us in the Notre Dame 
community can answer, no matter what f our spiritual life has been like 
in the past. We don't need to be a Scripture scholar, or know the entire history of the 
Church, we need only to have a • l. simple, yet honest, desire to enter into 
a life-giving and life-transform-re<t utred, ing relationship with God, through 
Jesus Christ, his son, and to respond in½ove to those around us. For many of us, there 
may be inc ulre relationships that need to be reconciled as a first step on this re­
newed t journey to faith. That relationship might be one with family, 
friends, God or even ourselves. Reconciliation can often be a painful process. But, 
much like a mother's jl I j pain during the birth of a child, reconciliation can 
give birth to a new wth n••• senseoflifethrougharenewed I 
commitment to the ones we love and a restored faith in the ••• 
Vour heart. 

One who loves us. cJ 
'vJalc~ for Ju~ilee ~000 evenls all seriesler frori [ar,pus MinistrJ ! l~e Lenter for 
Social Concerns. for riore info, contact frank al l-3t50 or fsantoni@nJ.eJu. 
Good Stuff to Know 

Dr. Martin luther KingJr. Holiday 2000 
Monday, January 24, 7:00 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 

The Dream Through Fr. Hesburgh's Eyes: A personal reflection on Marlin, the Movement and their realities at Notre Dame. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, c.s.c, President Emeritus 
Wednesday, January 26, 6:00 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom 


Colors o/the World -A Student Panel 
Presented by the Student Government. Food from around the world will be served. 
Thursday, January 27, 7:00 p.m. Chapel of the Holy Cross (Keenan-Stanford) 

Who u,e are today: Walk in the Light ofChrist -Prayef Service 


Speech Contest 

Prize: Scholarship for the Center for Social Concerns Spring Break Civil Rights Seminar. 
February 4 Submission ofWritten Speeches 
February 18 Award Presentation at Blak Koffee House 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry, Center for Social Concerns, Office of Mulciculwral Srndent Affairs, Office of Student Affairs, and Student Government. 

Please join us in welcoming 35 candidates for confirmation into our community as they continue their initiation into the church. 
Rite ofWelcome Sunday, January 23 11:45 Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
will gather TONIGHT @10 pm in Walsh Hall Chapel 
ALL ARE WELCOME 



RCIA meets this Sunday 
Sunday, January 23, 10:00 am Notre Dame Room @ the La.Fortune Stu.dent Center 

Wednesday, January 19, 2000 The Observer . WORLD NEWS page 9 



Supreme Court allows 


Pope opens Holy Door 
. Leaders join in seeking Christian unity 
Associdtcd Pres, 
HOMF. 

Wilh a push from lhe spiritu­al lnadnr of Anglicans and anothnr hard tap from an Orthodox prnlate, l'opn John l'uul II opl)f1t~d a svmbolic 
cl. ll ll r Tuesday in a c,-remony thal grnw out of his dream of uniting Christians. Tlw arch­bishop of Cantnrbury. (;t>org1: Car,:y. and MPtropolitan At hn 11 as ios. s<1 n l bv Barllwloml!W L th1: spiritu;(l IPadPr of thn world's Orthodox, w1•ri, llw most prominPntly foa­tun•d of thn 1111irP than 20 11011­Cat ho Ii,· participants in tlw snrvkl' to 01wn tlw I loly Door 
or SL PauJ"s Outside tlw Walls Hasilirn. 
Starting on Christmas Evn in St. l'Ptl'r0 s lfasilirn. tlw popP by himsl'!f had opPrwd tlH~ s1wcial doors of' thrl'1' basiliras to mark tlw start o/' tlw Vatirnn's lloly 'frar ol' pilgrimag<'s and indu!gP111·l's. 
1:u, ,,. l,il.(hlighl his goal ol' l11•,ili11~ rli, ,,ions -sDnw near­!~ a 111ill, iium old -among 

state holiday. They have not yet said whether they will grant full review to that dispute. 
"This is not going away," said Dwight Sullivan, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer in Baltimore. "You have the 

Careers 2000 -Chicago 
(Majority of career fields represented include: Business, Constitution being applied dif­ferently in different states." 
Marketing, Engineering, Information Technology, 
The Maryland law "sends the message to non-Christians that the state finds Good Friday, 

Sales, Consulting, Insurance, Management Training 
Programs, Consumer Products) 
and thus Christianity, to be a 

(Additional organizations represent the following career fields: science, research, 
religion worth honoring while advertising, fashion, government agencies & social service) 
their religion or nonreligion is not of equal importance," con­
tended an appeal by former teacher Judith Koenick.

Monday, January 24, Chicago, IL 

(Register on-line @ www.careerconferences.com) 
"That message is particularly significant in this case because it is being sent to schoolchild­ren," she said. 
Lower courts rejected her argument. The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the long weekend's legitimate purpose is to avoid anticipated high absenteeism among teachers and students on the days sur­rounding Easter, the holiest of Christian holidays. 
Good Friday, always two days before Easter Sundav, com­


In just 
meet and interview with outstanding 
memorates the crucif1xion of Jesus.

employers you won't see anywhere else! 
Montgomery County schools also are closed on Yorn Kippur, the .Jewish Day of Atonement,

Transportation Provided by 

The Career Center Depart Morris Inn @ 7:00 a.m. Return to Notre Dame by 4:00 p.m. 
Call to confirm for transportation by Friday 1/21/00 The Career Center 631-5200 


Good Friday closings
Christians, he saved the last part, some of them serving as basilica door to bl' opened deacons or reading texts or fol-together with non-Cathol.ics. 1owing the pope, who wore 
. Court allows 

Carey broke into a smile gold-colored robes, in solemn afhlr the dour was opened, and procession. 
Maryland to 

he and Athanasios got down on Participants included 

require public 

their knees just behind the 79-Lutherans and Pentecostals. 

schools to close

year-old pope. who was the Among the Orthodox leaders only one offered a cushion who sent representatives was 

on holiday 

against the hard stone floor. the patriarch of Moscow, Alexy Orthodox in black robes II. who himself in the past has 
Associated Press came up to him one by one to snubbed occasions for ground­offer a double-cheeked kiss of breaking meetings with the 
WASHINGTON peacl~ or take his hand in a pope. 
The Supreme Court is letting sign of respect. An American Orthodox, who split from 
Maryland require public woman. Frances Alguire, Rome nearly 1,000 years ago, 
schools to close on Good greeted him in her role as have been especially irritated 
Friday, but the legitimacy of presidflnt of the World with Catholics since the 
that law and Good Friday laws Mcthoclist Council. breakup of the r.ommunist 
in more than a dozen states "Unity! Thank you!" John Soviet bloc. They accuse 
remains clouded. Paul shouted in a strong, clear priests of being too aggressive 
The justices, acting without 

voice aftr.r reading his homily. in converting Eager to begin . .John Paul had "The wish that springs
nnssl:d tlrn 
from my heart ... is that
basilica's courtyard in a not far-ojffuture. 
with an Christians, finallyunusually 
reconciled, can go back 
brisk step. Since hip to walking together as 
surgery in one people."
1994. .John Paul has had John Paul II
difficulty walking. During Lhe 
s!'l"vio~ of prayer and readings.  unity," the pope said during his  Illinois  and  North  Dakota  
his left hand's tremor -a symptom associated with  cernmony. "The wish that springs from my heart ... is  require all public schools to close on that day each year. A  
Parkinson's disease quite visib!P.  - was  that in a not far-off future, Christians, finally reconciled,  federal appeals court struck down the Illinois law.  
More than a score of non­Catholic representatives took  can go back to walking togeth­P:r as one people."  The justices still have before them a challenge to an Indiana  
law designating Good Friday a  

faithful to 
comment Tuesday, rejected an 
Catholicism. 
appeal in which a retirnd 
Despite the 
Maryland teacher said the 
divisions, the 
school-closings law violates 
pope said 
constitutionally required sepa­
they are now 
ration of church and state. 
on a path 
In separate action, the 
that. leads to 
nation's highest court turned 
full unitv. 
away appeals by Quakers who 
"We · ask 
say the Internal Revenue 
pardon of 
Service violates their religious 
Christ for all 
freedom by charging fees and 
that which in 
interest for delays in paying the 
the history of 
portion of their federal tax that 
the Church 
funds the military. 
prejudiced 
Among the states with Good 
his design of 
Friday laws, only Maryland, 

and the first day of Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish new year. Those policy decisions are based not on anticipated absenteeism but on findings that large numbers of students would be absflnt if schools were open on those days. 
Maryland law does not require school closings for any Jewish holiday. State law desig­nates these public school holi­days: Thanksgiving and the day after; Christmas Eve through .Jan. 1; the Friday beforr. Eastf~r through the Monday after; Memorial Day; and primary and general election days. 
State and fedr.ral courts are divided, the justices were told, over the constitutionality of laws or governmental practices that deal with Good Friday. 
Lawyers for Koenick urged the court "to bring order to the lower courts' chaotic decisions concerning governmental recognition of Good Friday." 
But lawyers for the Montgomery County Hoard of Education said thfl four-day holiday "is anchored around the increasingly secularized holiday of Easter, which is a traditional time for Marylanders, like many other Americans, to begin Easter­related travel." 
The justices wnre told that 12 states have Good Friday laws: Delaware, Florida. Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana,, Louisiana, Maryland, New .Jersey, North Carolina, North Dakota, Pennsylvania and Tennessee. Wisconsin had such a law, but it was ruled unconstitutional in 1996. 
California and Kentucky have laws establishing part of Good Friday as a holiday for govern­ment employees, and in Texas the day is an "optional holiday" for state employees. 
In the Quakers' case. the court turned away arguments by three Religious Society of Friends members from New England and Pennsylvania. The action let the IRS continue charging late fees and interest in addition to their back taxes. 
The appeals filed on behalf of Gordon and Edith Browne, who have homes in New Hampshire and Vermont, and Priscilla Lippincott Adams of Philadelphia did not contest having to pay 100 percent of their tax bill when the tax agency forces their hand. 
Instead. the Quakers cited a "religious hardship" and argued that they should bn able to pay the back taxes without any penalties or interest. 
They said that as a result of religious faith and study. thny cannot voluntarily pay that por­tion of their federal income taxes which they determine are dedicated to war. 

Please-~e 

-








VIEWPOINT 
page 10 OBSERVER Wednesday, January 19, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. B,ix Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Saurh Dinmg Hall, Norre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHlfF 
Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  nivid Rogan  
ASST. M.ANAGINf; EDITOR  
bura Petell,  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan V1£Wl'01NT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
ScFNF. Eo!TOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR, Norem Gilkspie 
PHOTO EDITOR, Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGF.R: Rryan Lutz 

Ao DESIGN ~NAGER. Bree Huelat SYSTEMS AOMINIS.11\ATOR: Michael Revers 
Wl'D AOMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROU.ER: Timothy Lane 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
0FFICI: MANAGER/GLNEIIAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................6jl-6927 ADVF.RTISJNG ..............631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EOITOR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.... ········ ............ ••·· .................... ·········63 !-4 540 observer.scene. I @nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's ............................................. 63 l-4324 
observer.smc. I@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................63 l-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sire at http:!!obsemer. 11dedu for daily updates ofcampus news. spons, teatures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/music for 
weekly student reviews
minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives ro search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Obse1ver is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Edirorial content, including advertisemenrs, is nor governed by policies of rhe administr-ation of either insrirurion. The Observer reserves rhe righr to refuse adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofrhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor 1mm he signed and ,mist include COillJ.Cl infornution. 
Que,tiun, reg111di11g Obsm,er policies ,hould b~ direct­ed to Ediror 111 ChiefMichelle Krupa. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Accepting an Australian Accent 
I am a Notre Dame student the likes of which you will probably never see. 
I am a student of Notre Dame, Fremantle, Australia. An accented Notre Dame. A sister, but separate, uni­versity that shares your name and is endeavouring to share your reputation. [ expect that you have heard litth~ of this Notre Dame in Australia. We am, after all, a young and small institution situated in anothAr country. I. however, have certainly heard of you, our sislAr school. 
I believe that our differences are not accented enough. You are who you arc. We, I feel, are torn between who we are and who you are. We are in some ways defined by you, our sister school. I confess to knowing very little of your reality, but I fear thatsome of us in Frernantle are too earnestly trying to replicate, or at least revel, in it. 
Notre Dame, Fremantl!i, is eight years old. It is situated in ye oldc Frcmantle, a port town decorated with colourful pubs and people, historical and picturesque buildings and titanic­sized container ships. These, however, appear to receive less emphasis on campus than the presence of South Bend students and the general pres­ence of Notre Dame, South Bend, in our short history. 
WAre you to come to Fremantl!1, I would suggest that you would not notice this "Big Brother" obsession. Besides the shared university name, the American inOuence is not that nxplicit. It is more thn inf1wmce of the name and associated connotations that con­cern me. 
Notre Dame, Fremantle, will imwitahly be knnwn as an institution responsible for the cultivation ol' many great minds and people. At present, however, what reputation we may have is limited. We arc essentially too young. 
But we do possess a de facto reputa­tion of sorts: your reputation. Australians, admittedly, know little of Notre Dame, Fremantle, but very rarely have they not heard the name of Notre Oame. To most it is an American name, not a Parisian name. They are more aware of' you, our American sister school. than they are of us, their fellow J\ustralians. 
I daresay Urn same could apply to our own students. I know ol' the Fightin' Irish, but it means nothing to me -nor do I think it should. It is not who I am. I am an Australian patriot, not a quasi­American. 
I am fond of our Notre Dame for many reasons. A principle source of my affection is Fremantle itself, as well as the positioning of the university in the hub of Frcmantlc's West End. People, pubs, cafes, shops, art galleries and the like are in abundance. But alas, l do not think we utilize them to the extent they deserve. 
Perhaps unconsciously, we are blind­ed by our access to an international inDuence: South Bend. In somn ways, a summer semester at South Bend is spo­ken of as though it were a homecom­ing. The pinnacle of our undergraduate education. In the most extreme of' sce­narios, it is almost as if we attend Notre Damn, rremantle, in order to spend a semester studying (and drinking) in South Bend. 
I dearly love my university and am l'ornrnr gratel'ul that we are so closdy associated to such an esteemed and intnrnational institution. It provides the exposure, inspiration and opµortunith~s necessary for a uniquely rewarding university experience. 
I just strongly believP in the impor­tance of a local identity. Our bonds with your school and its greatness has in some ways led to complacency in our nndcavours to build our own greatness. I fear that some of us believe your greatness will simply be translated to Fremantie hncause ol' our shared name. I do not belinve a name can be equated to an identity. 
You have your greatness, and of that you should be immensP]y proud. We ,med to build our greatness, at least ini­tially, on our immediate surrounds: Fremantl11 town and its array of practi­cal and social resources. Ideally, I'd love to sop Fremantle defined as a uni­versity town, dominatPd by the well­dressed (and occasionally drunken) intnlligentsia of Notre Dame, Fremantl!). But in order to do so, we must first dedicate ourselves to Premantle, and in some ways, separate our soul from our sister school in South Bend. 
In an increasingly global world, the importance of our ties cannot be criti­cised or questioned. With our partner­ship in what could bo termed a "multi­national" -at least in spirit and name -university, I thought you might be interested in hearing from Notre Dam!1, Fremantle. I know I endeavour to listen to those who venture to the foreign and l'un-lilled world of Fremantle. 
Dane Chandler Frcmantlc, Australia October 25. l 99'l 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A ship in port is safe. but that is not what ships are built for. " 
Benazir Bhutto former prime minister of Pakistan 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Wednesday, January 19, 2000 BSERYER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Shipmates deserve better than inmates 
It is unl'ortumtlP that jails an\ needed in our socinty. but they are. As our elected offil'i,11s consider the need for trnw jails in our country and tlw sµecifi­catinns f'or tlH>S<' new jails, I would like to offor sorrw pnrspcctivn. 
Tho rnsidcnts of any jail or prison are tlrnre bl'cause they have disruptrd lives and broken the law. Thny have made choices of their own rree will that resulted in their jail sentences. This is a natural cause and effort situation: allowing tlwm to rPap the n~sults of the doeds tlwy have sown is a good thing. 
Tlwrc is. lrnwcvcr, a group of fellow Americans who live in far mon• uncom­fortable conditions than any jail or prison today. I'm reforring to the young men who have volunteered to serve and protect our country and whose living quarters am found on U.S. Navy sub­marines. 
Tlrns1~ friends or Am1ffica don't even have tlwir own bl'Cls! Each sailor has a 
reservation Tor one six-or eight-hour period in each 24-hour period. A typical Navy sub has about 130 sailors sharing two showers, four toilets and two TVs. There arf' no steak dinners; rather thev cat dehydrated meals that have little · taste. They get no fresh fruits or vege­tales. Thf'y don't see thfl light of' day for weeks at a time. 
They work hard under these condi­tions, too. No sitting around watching TV all day! All this because they are working hard to preserve our peaceful, distinctly American way of life. 
Where did we get the idea that the folks who work hard to tear down our society should have better living condi­tions than those who work hard to pro­tect our freedoms? 
Anne Coates Lexingwn, Ind. Ocwber 12, 1999 

Death penalty still lives 
I would like to cxtnnd my sincern grat­itude to the approximately 1:iO i'Jotrn Dame and Saint Mary's !'acuity and stu­dents vvho took time from their linals prnparations last smnes­tPr to alt<'nd tlrn <1xccution of':'vlr. IJ.11. Fh11)nor of Madison. Ind. on Dnc. 9, l 'J9<J. 
Your prnscncn was important for tlm-•c masons. First, your participa­tion in lhn prayer vigil paid appropri­at<' rt'SpPCt lo Lim livns of' Mr. Flc1mor and his vic­tims. Mr. and Mrs. Bill and Nyla Harlow. 
Secondly, cacb ofvou, along with tlw manv ollwr ln~liana citiwns in altfimlancc, served as a collcclive voice against the death penalty, which has bncn well dorumented in media statewide, such as thn Indianapolis Star, The 
Times, Tlie Elkhart 
Truth, The Michigan City News-Dispatch and The South Bend Tribune. 
f.inally, each of you werP Witnress­cs lo what happ<med Doc. <). All of you expl'ricnccd t.he atmosphere of tension and anxiety as we each waited for the announconrnnt of' Mr. Fleenor's passing. 
Ultimately, when Department of 
Correction spokesperson Pam Pattison 
came out 37 minutes past the scheduled execution time, you each heard her describe with a trembling voice how the state needed three _ attempts to administer the fatal injections while Mr. Fleenor was strapped to the gur­ney and fondled with the needle. Never forget what you saw and how you felt that night. The only way the .. ---····-death penalty 
··· ·-vvill ever be abolished is if people like you continue 
to make vour voice heird. Campus 
groups like Pax Christi, Hight to Life and Amnesty 
International make it easy to get involved in issuAs like this on a regular basis, so get involved. Thauk you again for your presence and keep up the good work! 
Matthew Monberg Prcsidenr Amnesty International ND Deceml,er 10, 1999 

Eating disorders affect us all 
I wanted to Lhank The Observer for last semeswr's front-page article on eating disorders. I personally do not suffer from the lerrible effects of these diseases, but they have touched almost every aspect of my life. 
In high school, I watched one of my cross-country tt>ammates slowly destroy herself with anorexia nervosa. The changes she experienced fright­ened manv of her classmates, who finally pre.ssed the guidarn;e counselor to address her parents. Even after she n,ccived help, she struggled through her senior year with depression. 
The hell didn't end there. 
A few years later, a girl in my home parish killed herself because of an flating disorder. She was a perfection­ist to the fullest extent and couldn't bear the thought of needing outside help to overcome her problems. She stayed honH~ from school one day and overdosed on some medicines she founf in the bathroom cabinet. Her parents came home from work to find their only child's lifeless body in her bedroom. 
The next year, nine girls from my high school were diagnosed with eat­ing disorders, many because of life­thrt>atening situations. I have since made it my personal mission to learn everything I can about the prevention and treatment of these evil. diseases that tend to plague young women and to rid youth of this stupid image soci­ety has been fording us. 
I realize that the latter part of my goat is somewhat unrealistic, but often it only takes one voice to change the world. I beg all readers and the rest of the public to do what they can to pre­vent anymore unnecesary victims of this horrifying epidemic. 
The best knowledge is prevention. 
Margaret Sullivan Junior 
Saint Mary's College November 30, 1999 


Wanna write? 
1/ie ()~ u ~ ~appa­~~ lu-~ ~­

(]~~~exceed 800~ and mud ~bt/4 a lLieuJ-and a pcdnt. 
Ques+ionsi 
viewpoint. l@nd.edu 

page 12 
Wednesday, January 19, 2000 
SCENE ASKS 

What was your 
New Year's 

resolution? 

"Live Healthy. I'm tou unbalanced -I'm going to sleep well. eat well and.find direction." 
Shannon S. Lee junior, Pasquerilla East 
''To stay in shape. to stay on Dean's List, to not sleep in during exams and to finish my movie script." 
P.J. Mercanti freshman, Keough 




''To live la Vzda Loca." 
Gabriel Alejandro senior, Dillon 

"For New Year's I decided I want to live more healthy -I want to work out more and eat better.,, 
Amanda Rubio freshman, Lyons 


"To improne my correspondence." 
Kathy Koch junior, Welsh Family 




Semester At a Clan 
Without football weekends, spring semester is plain ol' artsy fartsy 
Snite Museum of Art 

January "16 -February 27: "Facing Death: Portraits f'rom Cambodia's Killing 
January 16 -Marr.h 12: "Breaking Barriers: S<~lections from the Museum of Art, Fort Lauderdale 

Theater Productions 

January 27-29: "Jeffrey" 
February 10-12: "Grease" 
February 20, 23-26: "All's Well That 
Ends Well" 

April 12-16: "The Love of the Nightengale" 

Films 

Al the Snite: "Eyes Wir!P Shut." "Casablanca," "Tho Last Temptation of C h r is t , " '' Goct s p e 11 , " " B I a ct e Hu n n e r , " "Bringing Out the Dead," "Yerden," "The Insider," "Singin' in the Rain," "Fight Club," "Citizen Kane," "Being John Malkovich," "Jaws," "Run Lola Run," "Swingers," "The. Straight Story," "Boys Don't Cry" and "Titus" 
Al Debartolo (SUB): "American Beauty," "American l'ie," "Double Jeopardy." "Mickey Blue Eyes," "The Bone Collector," "Three Kings," "The World is Not 
Enough,:: ::!3eing_ John ~.a!,kovich, ·::'-il,'.ir,py Hollow, foy Story 2, Dogma, ThP Grenn Milo" and "The Talented Mr. Hipley 
January 28-:n: Student Film Festival 2000 

VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
Toy Story 2 plays without 
By EMMETT MALLOY 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Only three yr,ars ago, the 
concept of 3D gaming was 
revolutionary. 

'.\lo longer were the 
game's boundaries confined 
to eithB1· going lnft or right. 
Look at the original Super 
Mario Bros. for the original 
Nintendo: as fun and 
addicting as that gamP was, 
the only direction Mario . could go was right. 
llowcvcr, when Mario 64 
came out. gamnrs were cast 
into an overwhelming 
world where they could go 
anywhnrc, not just !Aft or 
right. The 3D r,nvironment 
offered countless opportuni­
ties for endless ganrnplay. 

Due to Mario 64's critical 
and commercial sucr.ess, 
numerous copycats flooded 
the video game market, 
none of which reached the 
standards set by Mario 64. 
While many were on par 
with Mario 64 in terms of 
graphir:s and sound. they 
failed to capture players 
with a gameplay that made 
thrm want to keep playing 
and playing. 

Toy Story 2 for the N64 
has problems in both 
departments. 

Following the movie's plot 
line, Toy Story 2 is a mis­
sion-based game in which 
gamers go 
through vari­
ous levels. 15 
in all, with 
various objec­
tives to com­
plete. As Buzz 
Lightyear, 
gamers must 
explore 
numerous 
locales from 
the movie in 
order to savr, 
\'\/oody from 
being sold to a 
toy museum. 
With help 
from tho otlrnr 
toys in the 
house (all of 
whom make a 
cameo in the 
game). Buzz 
must solve 
puzzles, collect 
special tokens 
and fight off 
evil bosses. 
However, 
regardless of 
whether one 
has seen the 
movie or not, 
it's rather difficult to figure 
out what the point of the 
game is. 
The vast levels tend 

drag on and on; gamers will the game's
as be tired (not to mention out offive sh
expansive pos­bored) of running around 
sibilities are,
·the different places in thr,re is no System: Ni search of some clur, or sense of direc-Mady by: A 


CL. Q me: 
..... 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 2000 
NHL MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

KaD1ensky, Rangers tame 'Canes 
Associated Press 
NEW YOBK 

Valeri Kamensky had a goal and two assists !'or his first multiple-point game \ViLh New York in the Hangers· 3-2 victo­ry ovnr thf' Carolina II urricanes on Tuesday night. 
Kamensky. limited· by injuries to only 21 games this season, scored Cor lhe third straight game after failing to sc:ore since Oct. 19. The left wing signed during the offsea­son as 11 free agent. 
Adam Graves and John MacLean also sr.ored and Miki' Hichtor made 24 saves for the Hangers, who wmi their third straight gami> and fifth in six -,ontests. The only defeat in that strntch was a 1-0 loss at Carolina on Jan. 9. 
Bates Battaglia and Sami Kapancn scored for the Hurricanes, and Ron Francis had two assists. Carolina has lost four straight since its vic­tory over New York. 
The win gavli the Hangers --14 points and· moved them two in front of Carolina in the fight to make the playoffs. New York is only two points behind sixth­place Washington. 
The Rangers broke a 1-1 tie on second-period goals by Graves and MacLean. 
Graves put the Rangers in front just 1:06 into the period frame. Kevin Hatcher moved the puck to the right circle to Kamenskv. who fed it to Graves in-front for his 16th goal. 
The power-play goal moved the acting Rangers captain ahead of Vic Hadfield for fourth place on New York's career list. The improving Rangers power play has ,-on­nected in nine of 11 games. 
New York made it 3-1 when Kamensky and Hatcher set up MacLean's 10th goal and sev­enth in nine games. MacLean took a backhand pass from Hatcher al the left side of the 
CLASSIFIEDS 
net and beat Arturs lrbe with 
6:14 left for his 398th career goal. 
Kapanen s-,ornd his 17th goal with 2:27 left to makr. it a one-goal game. franr.is passed from the red line to Kapanen as he streaked into the Hangers zone. Kapanen skated in and scorPd over llkhtN. 
The teams, who will play again Thursday night in Carolina, traded first-period goals. New York scored Just two minutes in when Svlvain Lefebvre lifted a pop-!1y clear that slid past the Carolina blue line. Kamensky, who missed 23 games with a stress frar.­tun~ in his right arm, outskat• ed the Hurricanes defense and beat Irbe with a wrist shot. 
Battagl.ia backhanded in his 10th goal, and first since Nov. 27, at 13:44 to snap a 21­game scoring drought 
Irbe made 28 saves. 
Coyotes 4, Predators 4 
Sr,ott Walknr scored his 100th NHL point on a sixth­attacker goal with 2] seconds left in regulation as the Nashville Predators tied the Phoenix Coyotes. 
The Predators scored tw,ice in the final 5:26 of the third period to tie Phoenix, the NHL's second-best road team. 
Vitali Yachmenev scored through a maze of players in front of the goal to draw the Predators within one, and Walker poked a rebound past fallen goalie Sean Burke. Drake Berehowsky's shot deflected to Walker after hit­ting the post. 
Burke gloved Cliff Ronning's slap shot in overtime to pre• serve the tie. 
Trailing 3-0. the Predators scored twice in a 24-second ser.ond span midway through the second period. Randy Hobitaille put a wrist shot past Burke. the first power-play goal allow~d by Phoenix in six games. Mark Mowers than c:ranked a slap shot between Burke's pads from the top of the right circle. 
Jeremy Ho1rnick gave Phoenix a 4-2 lead with 11 seconds left in the period, stealing the puck from Robitaille at center ice and beating goalie Mike Dunham for a short-handed goal. 
Phoenix scored twice on its first five shots of the game. 
Shane Doan banged in a pass from Juha Ylonen near the right post at 9:02, and Travis Green made it 2-0 at 
10:35. Keith Tkachuk added his 19th goal with l :33 left in the period. 
Tkachuk, Phoenix's captain, and Nashville captain Tom Fitzgerald are cousins. Both are from MPlrose, Mass. 
Flames 6, Red Wings 1 

Fred Brathwaite continues to make saves anrl the Calgary flames continue to collect vic­tories. 
Brathwaite mad" 28 saves and Mark Savard scored twice as the Flames posted their fourth straight win, a triumph over the Detroit Red Wings. 
Bill Lindsay, Andrei Nazarov, Denis Gauthier and Valeri Bure also sr,ored for the Flames. who set a season high in goals. Calgary improved to 12-1-1 in their last 14 home games and moved within four points of Colorado for the lead in the Northwest Division. 
All-Star Steve Yzerrnan sc:ored the lone goal for Detroit. which is 0-3-1 in its last four games. It was Yzerman's 614th, moving him past Hall of Famer Mario Lemieux into seventh pla-,e on the all-time list. 
The Bed Wings have lost five of the last six meetings between the teams. Goaltender Chris Osgood. who was yanked early in the third period, fell to 0-4 in bis last four games against the Flames. 
The Observer accepts classifieds evel)' business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 ji.rn. at the Notre D,1111e office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must he prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per ,lay, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhc righr ro edir all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
Jeter set to sign rich, new contract 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Derrk Jeter is on the verge o/' becoming baseball's rich­est man. 
After helping lead the New York Yankees lo three World Series titles in four vears, the All-Star shortsto·p was near agreement on a rocord contrac:t worth a bout $118 million for sevnn years. The Associated Pniss learned Tuesday. 
Jeter submitted a $10.5 milli.on figure f'or 2000 in salary arbitration Tuesday, a record amount for a player. and the Yankres put in $9.5 million, the most ever offered by a team. But nei­ther side expects thr mattrr to go to a hearing. 
Yankees general managrr Brian Cashman and Jrter's agent. Casey Close, declined comment. But a pair of' sources familiar with the negotiations, speaking on the condition they not be identified, said a srven-yrar deal to keep him in pin­stripes was nearing -,omple­tion. 
"Eventually, I'll get a long­term deal," Jeter said Tuesday at the Yankees' training -,omplex in Tampa, Fla. "Hopefully, it will be sooner than later. It's out of my hands. We'll seo what happens. It's just a mattor or time, I think." 
The deal and the average salary would shatter the records set by pitclrnr Kevin Brown on Doc. 12. 1998. when he agreed to a $105 million, seven-year contrac:t with the Los Angeles Dodgers, a deal that aver­ages-$15 million. 
One of the sourr.rs said Jeter's contract probably 

would wind up being worth $118.5 million, whir,h would make its avcragp $16,928.571, 
In addition, Yankees pitch­er Andy Pettitte was closr to agreeing to a $25.5 million, threr-yr.ar contract, one source said. After swapping arbitration numbers with the team. catchPr Jorgr Posada agreed to ll $1.25 million. one-year deal. 
At 25. Jeter already has won three World s·cries championship rings. 
lie batted .349 and sPt c:aronr highs in honrn runs 1241, BBls (102) and hits 1219) last srason. llr. safelv reached base in thr Yankees' first 53 ganrns, tlw team's longest such streak sin1·.n thn expansion era of 
1%1. 
Jntcr ranks fifth on thn Yank1ws' carPer list with a .318 averagn. He has led the team in hits for four straight years and has scornd at lnast 100 runs in each of' those seasons. 
· lie beat the Yankens in arbitration last win tcr, get­ting a $5 million salary instP.ad of the toam's $3.2 million offer. He wasn't wor­ried about the prospPct of another hearing this winter. 
"You look at it, you'rn in a win-win situation," Jdnr said. "Even if' you lose th<' arbitration casr, you·rn making a lot of' money ... you're making a l<it morn monny than you did the prn­vio us vear. I rnallv don't !'or.us o~ it too much.'; 
The dPal. a-,cording to onP or thn sourCPS, won't br finaliznd until Yanknns owner George StP.inbrnnnPr hrnots with Jeter and until the shortstop takes a physi­cal for insurance purposes. 
WANTED 
COACH: Need Jr. High girls coach­responsible.dependable,student or grad to coach 7-Btti grade girls bas­ketball B-team 
Jan-Mar;lor south-side elementary school.located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. 
Must be available for practices Man-Thurs from 2:20-3:15.Game schedule vanes with 9-10 games beginning after school al 4:00.or 5+p.m. 
Paid position. Call 291-4200 to apply. 
SUMMER JOB WITH GIFTED 
KIDS 
Northwestern University's Center 
for Talenled Development is hiring 
residential counselors/T A's 
Experience w/k1ds pref. 
Room/board provided for coun­
selors. 
Comp. salary.great work experi­ence.6125-8/32 + training 
To apply, ca\! (84 7)467 · 7884 Thank you. 
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­MENT CENTER 
Earn money and build resume experience while interacting with delightlul young ct)ildren 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's College, located in Havican Hall. is currently accepting applications from college students for part time positions.The hours vary.including 11 :30 a.m.• 
1:15 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
II you are interested m applying.please contact Amy Moskalick,Program Conrdinator,at 284-4693 for more information and an application. 
EARN $$$s FOR EVERY HOUR 
YOU SPEND SURFING THE 
INTERNET FOR DETAILS SEND 
EMAIL TO WORLDWEB1@GO.COM 

FOR RENT 
6 BDRM HOME.FURN.AVAIL 
NOW.$150. PER. 272-6306 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 
272·6306 3 tJedroom duplex appliances,W/D 1 mile from campus 273-8332 

ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE 
AND CLOSE 

http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ . 
email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595 
6 BEDRM. '00-'01 $1200/mo. 273-0482 

FOR SALE 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress and deluxe frame. 
New, never used, still in plastic. $235 
219-862-2082 

'95 CAMARO, RED, T-TOP, 
LOADED. 45K. 
MINT COND. $11,500 OR 8/0. 
219-291-5471. 
96 Ford Ranger XL 54k mi .. CD player, man. trans. $7000. obo. Call Tony, 273-5319. 
SPRING BREAK 2000 
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND­PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT THE "FUN PLACE"! 
TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN­MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT­ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE HARD BODY CONTESTS 
3 POOLS LAZY RIVER WATER SLIDE 
HUGE BEACHFRONT HOT TUB MINI GOLF 
GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE 
1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 

PERSONAL 

www.thecommentator.com 
Free CD of cool indie music when you register at mybytes.com, the ultimate website for your college 
needs. 

pq first classified of ·oo, hey' 
ready for donuts women's basketball something irish who's ready for the whooppie? someone obvoiusly missed some­
thing that we shouldn't have applesauce jd -let's hop off to a-town reimport me no. no. i'm not ready yet m-shan. you're gonna ditch us and 
leave us with HER aren't you who wants an 8 a.m. class the poor, poor production girl kessler. you're such a mooch make them work work work wanna do something that's a little 
conriolly-centric 
jess way to go in ch,cago and good morning America did you get a date with mr clean? we're so proud of you plus we want you to design us 
some plastic chairs hey paul love renee 1want cheetos right hard last and beautiful the hill of death is dead along with !hat hedge Connolly 2, Turner 1 ... a new centu­
ry means the end of Turner's domi· nance hit Stuff raw Steak and Shake Chilli dog Blt( its lumpy and Bail WHAT do you want me to do? What do YOU want me to do? 
Whal do you want ME to do? What do you WANT me to do? 


Wednesday, January 19, 2000 OBSERVER page 13 

e: Spring 2000 
Music 
February 24-25: Collegial<~ Jazz. Fnstival May 4: Notre Dame Symphony OrchP,stra concert Fd)ruary 27: Voices n!' Faith gospnl «·onc•~rt 
Miscellaneous 
March :~: Troop ND dance show 
January 24-28: Dr. Martin Luther King. Jr. Holiday 2000
\!larch 9: Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra com;1'rt 
Fnbruary 13-18: Sophomorn Litnrary FesUval 
March 20: Conr.ert lfa.nd concert February 18-20: Junior ParPnts· 
"v1arch 24· Glee Club concert 
Weekend 
April fi: Nnlrn Damn Choral and 
March 11-19: Spring Break 
ChambPr Music cnnc<'rt April. 4: DAHTing for fall semestPr 
April 16, 27: .lazz Band concert 
begins 
April 26: Glen Club concnrt 
April 21-24: Easter Break 
April 28-211: Notrn Dam<' Opera May 4-7: Study Days 
April 30: Notn· Danw Brass Ensemble 
May 8-12: Final Exams 
COllCPl"I 
May 19-21: Commnncemenl We,~kend
film's charmed freedom 

SCENE ASKS 
What was your New Year's resolution? 

0 
Study more and work out more often." 
Devin Mcshane freshman, Keough 

''Think more before I talk. " 
Tiffany Monroy junior, Welsh Family 


"For the new year I want to be all action all the time." 
Christopher Jonick 
5th year, off campus 
"fo quit losing weight. " 
Nick Lagoni 
junior, Fisher 



"To follow in the footsteps ofmy idol: Britney Spears. " 
Sarah Kaczka sophomore, Welsh Family 
..._ 

"I decided that for the new year l would actually start studying." 
Jennifer Wiemer freshman, Lyons 

'Y 2 
rnrocks 
1tendo 64 
tion. Evfrn if gamers an, lucky enough to figure out the level's objective, it's morn confusing to l'igurc out how it fits in 
the huge Silicon Graphics machines that worn used in the production of' the movie, but that still is not a valid excuse. 
The characters are fuzzy, and their texturns arc extrnmcly grainy. The envi­ronments do a rathr,r good job with depth perception. but some of tlw colors are ratlwr bleak l"or this game. 
Overall. Toy Story 2 ror N64 gives the look anti foci ol' tlw movi11, but it n1ally \"alls shnrt of ("apturing its Pnergy. 
The game should have bc-Pn a better attnmpt at interacting with the film. For Pxample, the plot line is introduced by using stU! pictures with oversimplified tnxt, which del"initely docs not seem like the Pixar way of doing things. 
Also, the gamr, focuses too much on Buzz Lightyear and not on the other great characters from the movie; their role is reduced to say­ing annoying one-liners and giving poin11ess clues. 
If one's looking lo relive the experience of the movie, they're not going to find it here. Video game players of all ages will ht>comn frus­trated with the way the game is laid out. and it's all downhill from there. 
At IJesl. this game is worth a nrntal. 
-w---------------------­
Wednesday, January 19, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

When you're broke, you look at things in a whole new way. 
So for textbooks and stuff, hit ecampus.com. You'll save up to 50%. And shipping's always free. 
ecampus·.c,m 
Textbooks & Stuff. Cheap. 
Win atrip to Jamaica for Spring Break. No purchase necessary. Sweepstakes begins 01/03/00 and ends 02/17/00. Open to US residents, 18 years and older. Void where prohibited. For details see Official Rules on www.ecampus.com or send aself addressed stamped envelope by 02/10/00 to: c/o Rolling Stone Spring Break, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, NY, NY 10104. (WA and VT residents may omit return postage.) 


•• u ace -• 
page 16 
NFL 
Rams retain Martz 
As•ociared l're•s 
ST. LOUIS Asked if he ever thought offensive coordinator '.'vlike 
Martz was a mad scientist. Marshall Faulk vigorously shook his head. 
Then he pondered a bit longer and said. "He doPs come up with some things for us." 
Enough things that the St. Louis Rams have promised Martz the head coaching job when Oick Vermeil rntires in 2001. 
Martz. who turnPd the St. Louis offense into one of the most potent attacks in NFL history, agrned to a two-year contract extension with lhe team on Monday. Vcrmeil. who initiated the extension and Martz's eventual eleva­tion. said he plans to fulfill the final two vears of his deal. Then. the job belongs to Martz, whom Vermeil recruit­ed from the Washington Hedskins before tlrn season. 
The deal prohibits Martz from r,oarhing anywherP rise before taking over the Rams. 
"When I first interviewed with Dick for the job, he made some statements _that if things went well and we won ... his intention was the opportunity 1,rnuld be there for me." Martz said. "I love St. Louis. it's ·where I want to be." 
He'll be there for the next two years under a renPgotiat­ed contract that includAs a raise. Terms of the verbal deal, which the Hams said would be put in writing soon, were not available. 
"Being in a position to work for Dick for the next few years and to get the opportunity to develop my skills for being a head coach" was enticing. \1artz added. 
He· also dropped out of the running for any of the current NFL head coaching vacancies. Several teams expressed interest in talking to him once the Rams are done playing. which he found "flattering." 
"I think it all has been a real distraction," Martz said. 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 2000 
Jets' owner searches for new coach, stadiulll 
Associated Pre.<s 
NEW YORK 

New owner Hobert Wood Johnson JV promises his New York Jets will have a coach in place by the end of the week, and eventuallv a new stadium to call home as well. 
After being unanimously approved for membership in the fraternity of NFL owners on Tuesday, .Johnson set his prior­ities for the team. first, he said, was the matter of a coach. 
Bill Parrells resigned after three years on the job Jan. 3, turning the team over to defen­sive cfiordinator Bill Belichick. A day later. Bclichick bailed out. reportedly influenced by better opportunities Plsewhern. That threw the Jets' sideline situation into turmoil. 
There has been speculation that Parcells might return and Johnson said he'd have that issue resolved by the ond of the week. 
"I've met with or talked with Bill Parcells every day," he said. "We had a long meeting on Wednesday and again on Friday. lle's a very unusual man who brought a lil'e to this tram not seen since the Namath era. We have had dis­cussions and talked about what he wants to do. Those discus­sions arc continuing." 
Not for long. though. Johnson promised he would not allow llrn issue to linger. 
"Wc'rn looking at his role," he said of Parr.nils. "! think he'd be a great coach. We hope he'll play n large rolo. No deri­sion has been nmdo. We'll have one by the end of the weflk. I guarantee we will know by the end of Urn week." 
If Parcells decides to remain relirnd, Johnson said he would not limit his search for a coach to the Jets' current staff of assistants, which no longer includes Belichir.k. who had been the heir apparent. Linebackers coach Al Groh has been mentioned as the main candidate within the organiza­tion. 
"I think with any good leader selection. you do have to look at all the opportunities." Johnson said. "So we will be very careful to assess what is tJPst for the team and our objective trying to create this thing. We will look inside and outside, address everything." 
Johnson said that in their meflti ngs s.o far he had hflon unab\p to get a road on whether ParceHs might bP. per­suaded to return. 
"If he doesn't want you to know, you don't know," the owner said. "But we have decided by the end of the week we are going to resolve this decision." 
Asked about reports that he had offP,rcd Parcells $5 million to return for one more year. Johnson smiled thinly and said, "I don't remember making such an offer." 
One matter already settled is the status of Steve Gutman. who has agreed to remain as president of the team. Gutman handled much of the day-to­day operation of the franchise l'or owner I.eon Hess, who died last May. 
"lie knows more NFL than anybody." Johnson said of 
Gutman. 
Thnn, there's thr stadium. llcss moved the Jets out of Shna Stadium in 1984 and sincc then they hav0 shared Giants Stadium in East Huthcrf'ord. N . .1. Tl11!ir leasP at the Meadowlands lasts through 2008. 
"Eight years from now, they will play sonrnwhPrc 1dse," Johnson said. "The Jnts have never had their own stadium. Every game thf'y've played for the last 39 years has h<'<'ll an away game. They have never had the honrn f'icld advantagi;." 
The word is out. PriccwaterhouseCoopers is hosting an Intern Casino Night. Our representatives will be on campus to explain why vou should consider an internship with us. We offer vast opportunities, training and a variety of continuing education programs. 
All in an environment that fosters professional and personal growth and development. Something this exciting is worth telling 
.i friend .ibout. www.pwcglobal.com/abascareers 
J)R1cEWATERHOUsE@JPERS I 
Join us. Together we can change the world.5
M 

ti l'l'J'I Prt<.L'\41,1rt•rhou.1,,.:Cc1opers LLP. Prin1,v,tft·rhmi$t'(ocipt•rs rekrs mthe.• U.S. fimi 11/ Prit._·l,w-,1f<.'fhomc.Coopt'rs lLP ;md utht'f mL•rnlicrs vf the 'NCirldw,&• Prict•w11tcrhous,..-Coopcts r,rganiz1ti1m. Prict•w.1k:rhuvst-Cuopc,'n is pmud w be .1n Aflirm,1fiw.: /tc.:/iD11 ,111d Equ.11 Opportunity Employc:r. 

Wednesday, January 19, 2000 page 17
The Ob.erver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


page I 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 19, 2000 
Global resources. Local presence. 
The fast track~ 

To maintain the structure of Warburg Dillon Read as the leading global investment bank, we only hire the best. Our 2000 Summer Interns will enjoy a unique opportunity to experience our dynamic program for a Trading Assistant. 
Warburg Dillon Read will be interviewing members of the class of 2001 at the Career Center on Thursday, February 10. 
We welcome those interested to apply to Career Services before 8:00 am on Monday, January 31. 
Visit our website at www.wdr.com 
* Warburg Dillon Read 
An investment bank of global intelligence 
Warburg Dillon Read is the brand name for the investment banking division of UBS AG and its investment banking subsidiaries worldwide. In the United States, Warburg Dillon Read LLC, a subsidiary of UBS AG, is a member of NYSE and SIPC. Warburg Dillon Read is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Wednesday, January 19, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NHL 
Brooks suspended for two gallles 
Associated Press 
l'ITTSR L'HGI I 

PiLtsburgh PPnguins coach J!Prb Brooks was susp(•nded Tuesdav bv thn NIii. for an additio~al "gamn l'or shoving and verbally attacking a Colorado AvalanrhP announc­er who suggnstnd a l'(mguins play,'r pmbnllishes injuriPs. 
Brooks. ,.,ho rPturnnd to llw NIii. as a coach last month. was given llw PX tra game's suspension during a discipli­nary !waring in New York. Brooks was suspPrHJ<'d for Salurdav·s 4-2 loss to Nashvilh: and also will miss \V(•cl1wsclay·s ganw against St. Louis. 
Brooks. b<'st known for c.oaching tlw 1980 "MiradP on Jrp" U.S. Olympir horkl'Y lPam. lwcanw angry aftnr ron­l'rnnting AvalanchP ,uinouncer John KP!lv in a lrnllwav aftr.r Pitt~burgl{'s 4-:{ loss Th.ursday in D«•nvPr. 
Shortly al'tl'r Pittsburgh for­ward :'\latthn\\' Barnabv suf­i'PrPd a ronrussion whil,:bPing lToss-rlwrkPd in tlw hack ol' llw lll'rk by Colorado's Al(~xei Cusarov Knlly suggnstecl that llal'naby is known l'or PxaggPr­ating i11juri1•s. Brooks was told ol' thP rnmark and began yPl!ing at KP!ly. who is thn son ol' llall ol' Fanw broaclrastnr Dan Kl'lly. wlwn 11!' spottPd him af'!Pr tlw ganw. 
"Did VllU makr• that f'all on 
llarnab·y•1" llrooks shoutPd at 
KPII~,. "You say lw has a tnn­denr,y to embellish? What the hell kind of rail was that'? You aren't hair the person your dad was." 
Brooks initially rursed at Kelly as he qu£,s­
"The
t ion P cl h i Ill confrontation about 
Mr. Brooks 
th£' call. 

initiated was
t h n n 

shovPd inappropriate the an­
conduct for a 
nouncnr 

head coach in 
and said.  
''I'll kirk  this league.  "  
y  o u  r  
butt over  all thn  Colin Campbe ll  
plarn. all  NHL vice president  
right'?"  
bnl'ore  

an NIIL security officr.r sepa­ratPd thnm. 
Brooks screamed rnptiatedly at Kelly. "Was that your call'! Was that your call'?" and protl,stnd to him that Gusarov "almost tor<> his !Barnabv'sl head off', and th,·n you silid. 'lln has a tPndcnry to ombell­
ish .... 

K,,lly's father. Dan. was the voic:n of' the St. Louis Blues for 21 vnars. 
B·ro o ks in i ti a II y s a i cl he didn't rr,gri>t thP incident bncausr' hf' was standing up !'or a playP.r who \.\'as wronged. but has sine<' sof'tnnecl his staurl'. 
"Thn confrontation Mr. Brooks initiatnd was inappro­priatf' ron<lucl !'or a hnacl 
coach in this league," NHL executive vice president Colin Campbell said. "Mr. Brooks has acknowledged this and has expressed n~grnts thr. inci­dent or.curred. While that was taken into the account, such contact between any NHL per­son ne I and members of the media is not acceptable." 
Beforn the hraring, Brooks said he hoped the league would take into considr.rat.ion the incident was the first of its kind in his six seasons as an NHL coach. 
Brooks' two-game suspen­sion matches the suspension Gusarov drew for cross-check­ing Barnaby. The play did not result in a penalty. 
"You stand up for your play­ers when they are busting their tails," Brooks said after the game. 'Tm not just going to let them be hung out to dry. I'll battle-, for them." 
Barnabv sat out the Nashvilln game with the con­cussion. then visited a dor,tor Mondav and was cleared to play. . 
Eddie Johnston, a two-time l'ormer Penguins coach who returned to the coar,hing staff after Kevin Constantine was fired last month, was behind the benr,11 Saturday and will be again Wednesday. 
Brooks isn't allowed to he in 
the an~na or have telephone 
contact with any Penguins 
staff member during thfl 
game .. lfo can return to the 
bench Saturday at Montreal. 
Canadian NHL teams to be subsidized 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA 

The Canadian government will offer money to its six NHL teams to keep them competi­tive and prevent them from moving to the United States. 
No dollar figure was put on the federal aid package, which runs to 2004 when the collective bargaining agree­ment between the NHL and its players expires. 
But the federal money is contingent upon contributions from the league. city and province in which the team plays. 
"The federal government's willingness to participate in a shared solution for Canadian NHL teams is not about giving money to rich hoc.key players and team ownPrs," Industry· Minister John Manley said Tuesday. 
"ft's about helping these teams get through a difficult period so they will be in a position to emerge from their current financial problems as sustainable Canadian NIIL franchises." 
The decision immediately br,nefits the Ottawa Senators, who already received such assistance. Senators owner Rod Brydr,n, a former presi­dent of the Liberal party of Canada, led the campaign for federal assistance to NHL teams. 
The federal contribution is not to exceed 25 percent of the total of any aid package involving the league, the city and the province involved. It will be reviewed annually and is to be repaid to Ottawa if the team moves. 
The NHL already provides some compensation to Canadian clubs hurt by the low value of the Canadian dol­lar. Teams get most of their revenues in Canadian dollars and pay most expenses ­notably player salaries -in 
U.S. dollars. 

"The [Canadian] federal government courageously has shown its commitment to addrPssing a difficult issue in a meaningful way," NHL com­missioner Gary Br,ttman said. 'The NHL remains committed to maintaining a strong pres­ence in Canada and we will continue to work with our clubs and governments at all leve!.s as this process r.ontin­ues. 
Eric Maldoff, a lawyer with ties to Prime Minister Jean Chretien, will be the federal negotiator who works with the league and other parties in tailoring a package for each team. 
Government polls showed little appetite for subsidizing wPalthy team owners and mil­lionaire hockey players. 
Do YOU LIKE SPORTS? Do You LovE K1Ds? Do You WANT To GET PAID 
AND 
EARN COLLEGE CREDIT? 
National Youth Sports Program 
Needs You! Come and learn how you can be a part of 
NYSP 2000 
Thursday, January 20 at 8 p.m. or Monday, January 24 at 7 p.1n. at 
Center for Social Concerns Classroom 
(for additional information call 876-8394) 


Benefits include: -Living in residence hall on campus -Three meals per day -Tuition credit cf$1,200 -Academic Credit 

-----------·---------------­
page 20 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Seton Hall upsets No. 23 St. John's 
A<•ociateJ Pres, 
EAST IH.JTI-IERFORD. N.J. 

At halftime. Seton Hall 
unveiled its ~friendlier" mas,·ot. 
but freshman Samuel 
Oalt>mbert acted like the pirate 
of old. . 
Dalembcrt complemPnrnd bis 
school-rerord 11 blocked shots 
wilh two thunderous dunks in 
the latf'r stages of thf' second 
half as Seton Hall upset 23rd­
ranked St. John's. 78-70. in a 
Hig East Conference game. 
Oalembert. who broke Sf,ton Hall's 25-year-old blocks record. cappPd a 17-.~ run with an alley-uop dunk off Shaheen Holloway's fer.d to givr the Pirates (12-3, 3-1 Big East) a 61-43 lead wHh 7 1/2 minutes left. 
After a basket bv till' Hed Storm's Anthonv (;lover. tlw 6­
11. 232-pound ·nal<'mbfirt was lcfl alone underneath !'or an easy dunk and the Pirates cruised to just thrir second win in six games against St. John's !12-3. 4-1). 
The victory tied Seton Hall with St. John's for sr,cond plare in the Big East and left Syracusr, as the only p0rl'ect team in conferenr.e play. 
Dalnmbert. a native of l laiti originally tied Glenn Moslcv·~ school rernrd of nine blocked shots at Georgetown on January 8. \foslcv set the mark vs. St. John·s on January 22. 1975. 
Seton Hall drilled 10 3-point­ers. four by Rimas Kaukenas, as it won for the ninth time in 10 games and snapped thr, !fod Storm's six-game winning streak. 
St. John ·s had crawled back into the national rankings for the first time since November after a win at defending na­tional champion Connecticut on Sunday. 
Boston College 72, 
Georgetown 69 
K1win Braswell scored eight 
ol' his game-high 27 points in 
the final 2:02. including an off­
balance 3-pointor with ·1.4 ser,­
onds left. to give Georgetown a 
72-69 win over 13oston College 
on Tuesday night. 
After Boston College's Troy 
Bell hit thrn<' t'rr1~ throws, tying 
the game at 69-69 with 17 sec­
onds left. Braswell completed 
his st<'llar final two minutes by 
hitting his game-winner from 
the top of thP kPy while sur­
rounded by three defenders. 
Buben Boumtjc Boumqe had 
14 points and Nalhanif'I Burton 
swrn<l 13 for Georget1nrn (10­
(>, 2-3 Big East). Bell pacrd the 
Eagles (9-7, 1-3) with 18 points 
and Kenny W,Lits had 17. 
With thr. Eag-!P.s dinging lo a 
(>3-62 edge. Braswell scorPd a 
baskr.t and was fou!Pcl on tlw 
play by Bell. lie ('onvi>rtPd t.lw 
free throw. making il 65-63 
with 2:02 left. 
Braswell then fed Courtland Freeman perfectly for a layup. making it 67-63. Arter an Eagles basket, he nailed a run­ning left-hander from the l,iiHi · befon, Bell hit his thnw f'nw 
throws. 

Boston College's long in­
bounds pass was intr.rcPpted at 
midcourt bv Victor Samnirk 
and time expired. 
BC had taken a 63-62 lead on 
Bell's two free throws with 2: 12 
left. 

Al'tP.r the two teams shot 
poorly in the opening minutes 
of the game, combining on _just 
3 of 18 attempts. the Eagles 
went on a 12-2 run to grab a 
19-10 edge midway inlo thr, 
opening half. 
The Hoyas closed the final 
5:44 of the half by scoring 12 of the last 16 points as the teams ended tied 34-all at intermis­sion. 
Indiana unwelcoming in Alford's return 
Associated l're5s 
BLOOMINGTON. Ind. 

By halftime. Steve Alford had gone from returning hero to just another coach trying to beat the home team. By game's end. coach Bob Knight's Indiana Hoosiers had just enough to beat Iowa 74-71 Tuesday night. 
Alford, onP of the greatest players in Indiana history, rf'turned to Bloomington for the first time as coach of Iowa. He and Knight patched up a year­long rift, exchange)d hand­shakes before the game and the fans gave Alford a standing ova­
tion. 
AL the end. tlie cheers were for Kirk Haston and A.J. Guyton, who scored 25 and 20 points for No. 11 Indiana I 14-2 overall. 4-1 Big Ten) . There were 10 lead changes m the second half before a bas­ket by Guyton put Indiana ahead for good at b6-b5. The Hoosiers pushed the lead to six points before a free throw and 
3-pointer by Dean Oliver pulled 
Iowa 17-9. 1-4) within 73-71. 
Lynn Washington finished Indiana's scoring with a free throw with two seconds to go. and a 3-point attempt by Iowa's Rob Griffin was off the rim at the buzzer. 
It was the first trip back to Assembly Hall as an opponent for Alford, a two-time All­American who led the Hoosiers to the 1987 NCAA champi­onship. Alford met briel1y with Knight before the game: their first conver.sation since he was hired at luwa in March. 
The former Hoosiers hero was greeted by loud cheers from the crowd of more than 
17.000. After player introduc­tions and a pre-game hand­shake with Knight. it was all business. 
With the dapper Alford crouched or standing in front of the Iowa bench, a mere glance (:ver his right shoulder away from Indiana's five big red NCAA championship banners, the Hawkeyes stayed close the entire game. 
QaseRecycle The Observer 
M. 8-Ball 
continued from page 24 

ol'-16 shooting. Butgors' Roshod Kent held Murphy in chock ~rnst of the game. Murphy's Jrustration showed in the end when he was hit with a Wchni­cal foul and fouled out with 1 :26 left. 
Freshman Matt Carroll was the lone bright spot for the Irish. connect.ing on five of' eight shor.s for 13 points. David Graves was just 1-of-ll, but had eight reLound.s. Jimmy Dillon was 0-for-4 and had fiv~ assists and five turnovers. The Irish bench combined for jusl 11 points in nearly 41 mint1tes of play. 
Eugene Dabney had a carrer­high 11 rebounds for HutgPrs. !\lichael Thompson had IO points. 
The loss was Notrn Dame's second in a row. On Sundav. the Irish saw their seven-gil.mf; win­ning strrak snapped al Syracuse. 
Notni Damn 1rnw r0.turns to lh,~ Joyn) Center f'or a l'our­ganw homP.stand. It hosls Pittsburgh Saturday at noon. 

NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH 
Men's Basketball Results 
W 12/18/99 vs. VA Military Institute w 12/22/99 vs. Rider w 12/28/99 vs. Elon College w 1/31/00 vs. St. Peter's W 1/02/00 vs. Loyola Maryrnount W 1/15/00 vs. Boston Co1lege 
L 1116100 vs Syracuse 
79-66 
75-62 97-71 85-67 
75-54 
86-77 80-57 

Observer Graphics/Mandi Powell 
Spring Break Sen1inars 
March 11-19, 2000 Experiential/Service Leaming 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 10 sites in the Appalachian region 

-> An ND tradition of service-learning 
CIVIL & HUMAN RIGHTS SEMINAR 
-> Travel to key civil rights sites in the South (e.g., the King Center, the Nat. Civil Rights Inst.) 


-> Learn from leaders who were instrumental in civil rights legislation and development 
-> A new and unique Seminar opportunity 
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
-> Live for a week in community with persons .
0 

with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
-> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families 


WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Jubilee Justice 
-> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -> Service and political awareness opportunities 


All seminars offer one academic credit 
tl,II 
CENTER FOR 

Applications Available Now at the CSC SOCIAL CONCERNS
A p p Ii c a ti o n s D u e: Jan. 27, 2000 
Wednesday, January 19, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Connolly 
continued from page 24 
Vaccaro wrote in l\rw Jersey's Star-Ledger (Dr>.c. 19. 1999). 
Whilci sports columnists rant and rave about probation stc,d­ing awuy the football team's honor. Grunt Irons. Bobby Brown and Jabari Ilolloway will continue to make ev<>rv Notre Danrn supporter proud with their athletic abilitv, sr:bolastic success and overail integrity. 
In most cases. without ever having spoken to a Notre Dame football playnr or spending any tlmn 011 this campus, sporl.'i columnists across the country dec.13.rnd tlwmsnlvcs c·xpcrts on what Noln' Danm stands for. 
One writ.Pr for the Wa,;hington Post was so knowlcdgcabl<i on Notr<1 Dame that he did not <wen f'oel it was neressary to spdl the football head coach's name cor­rcdly ht's Bob Davie. not Bob DaviesI. 
Th<' purrnption ol' must of' the mPdia is lhat Notrr. I >amc has nrvrr c:ommitt<'d an NCAA viola­tion and sptmds all ol' ils tinw bragging how grPat it is. 
,\n:ording to Vaccaro. "Notre 
IJanw has bt'nn tsk-tsk-tsking otlwrs for th\' past 80 yP:1rs." This is u,mplctdy ridirnlous. Only tlw most ignorant Irish ran 
could possibly believe an Irish athlPte has rn•ver violated an NCAA rule in some manner. 
What Notre Dame has alwavs 
pridr.d itself on was swill and_ immediate .i,ction taken against anv student who broke a rule. whether that mle is an NCAA. University or state law. Since athletes at Notre Dame are stu­dents. they fall under tho same rules and regulations as any other student. 
When Brock Williams, Tony Driver and Lee Lafayette broke rules. they were appropriatP.ly punished. Bui the national media ignore these university actions. 
Instead, the media point at the poor decision-making of Eric Chapell who tried to soil his complementary tickets, and at Darry Levy. who a Chicago Tribune source has revealed to be the player who paid a friend to write a paper for him. ThH media ignore the fact lhat Chapell was kicked off the team for abusing his privileges as a football player and Lt>vy left school. The lJnivP.rsity will tell you that Levy transferred, but if you believe that his transfer wasn't highly cnrouragPd by Student Affairs, then there is a brid~r; in 13rooklyn you might be intercst,~d in porl".hasing. 
With the Kim Dunbar situation finally at a close, J\iotre Dame cau still feel proud, While the actions of a few individuals shamed the University, the actions of the University should be commPnded. The NCAA ron­cludcd that members of thP. c:oaching staff and administra­tion were not involved in ,my scandal and took the appropri­ate steps to investigate and turn over all information related to the investigation. 
Unlike Alabama and Wisconsin, who have been put on probation in the past year, thP. Irish coaching staff had noth­ing to do with the scandal. 
No one ever said that Notre Dame was perfoct, but even when problems arise. the Irish still do things the right way. 
So for the moment, members of' the administration must hang tlwir heads and turn thP. other chock as Notre Dame detractors have their dav in the sun. But when the leaves turn from green to gold and a blue. gray sky blankets northern Indiana, the stadium will fill and the band will strike up the tight song. When the football team rushes from the tunnel, no one will uotke the loss of one scholarship and the Irish will still havP their honor. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and nol necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH Continue to Win 
W12119199 vs. Florida Intern. 68-62 W 12/22/99 vs.USC 74-59 w 12/29/99 vs. Valparaiso 88-63 w1/02/00 vs. Marquette 75-60 w1/05/00 VS, W. Virginia 75-54 W11os100 vs. Georgetown 82-60 w 1/11/00 vs Seton Hall 80-52 .. W 1/15/00 vs. Syracuse 71-56 
Observer Graphics/Mandi Powell 
W. 8-Ball 
continued from page 24 
Irish during the regular sea­son when they travel to Notre Dame in February. History is not on their side, however. as the Irish hold an undefeated record over the Panthers. 
Fresh legs on the court from freshman guard Alicia Ratay has been just as important to the so-far suc­cessful Irish season as the experience provided by junior Ruth Riley and senior Niele Ivev. 
The leading scorer on the Irish squad, Ratay earned her third Big East rookie of the week honor last week after impressive outings against West Virginia und Georgetown. Ratay averages 
15.8 points and five rebounds per game. 
The Big East also honored Ivey with player of the week 
honors this week after recording her fourth double· double of the season in the Irish win over Seton Hall. 
Riley, despite a slow start to the season, has turned on the heat and played a pivotal role for the Irish under the basket. Battling injury and foul trouble early on. Riley was held scoreless for the first time in her career in the season opener against Toledo. The All-American candidate overcame her scoring draught nearly as quickly as it started. howev­er, and has scored in double figures in 14 of her last 16 outings. 
Tuesday's win over the Panthers marks the first of three straight away contests for the Irish. The squad trav­els to Miami on Saturday to take on the unranked Hurricanes in their sixth con­ference test of the season before taking on the Red Storm of St. John's next week. 

Look who got into 
J

Med School! 

.. 

.......--------...--.. .. ...............,....._............________ 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 19, 2000 
HOCKEY 
.. 
Special to The Observer 
Pour current and future Notre Dame hockey players are listPd among the top 160 play­ers on the recently released National Jlockey League's Central Scouting Service mid­season skater rankings. The Irish total represents the most players listed from any of the 12 teams in the Cirntral CollPgiatc Ifockey Association. 
The rankings list the top prospects for the 2000 Nl-lL Draft. which is open to players born between Sept. 16. 1980 and Sept. 15, 1982. Players born after Sept. 15. 1981 must "opt-in" and forfeit their col­lege eligibility. regardless of whether they already have r.ompleted a year of college hockev. 
Not;e Dame's top-rated play­er is fall of ·99 signee Neil Komadoski. who is considered one of the nation's top prospects among defensemen in his ag,~ group. Komadoski checked in at 51st on tlrn Central Scouting list. ranking as the fourth-highest rated player/signee from Learns in the CCIIA. 
Current Notre Dame playPrs on the Central Scouting list include three draft-eligible~ freshmen: dd'enseman Evan Nielsen center Connor Dunlop and right wing Mir.hael Chin. 
'.\Jielson c.irnr.ks in at 70th on the list. sixth-highest among all rnrrent CCIIA players/signees and first among ar.tive COIA defensemcn. 
Dunlop is listed 118th, eighth-highest among all play­ers with CCI IA ties and second among active CCJIA forwards lMir.higan center Andy Hilbert is listed 26th). Chin is the ninth-highest CCHA player/signee on the list. at No. 158. 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish start season 2-1 in Hawaii 
See tomorrow's Observer for complete hockey coverage 
rriday at BYU-llawaii in Laie, Hawaii. Green and Zalinski clinched the win with an 8-3 win over 
Colleen  Gray  and  Ilona  
Kordonskaya at No.  3 dou­ 
bles.  ·  

Guy won a key three-set 

Women's Tennis Results 
#18 NOTRE DAME 9. HAWAII 0 Singles No. I: Michelle Dasso (ND) def. Nina Wngcr ( H) 6-2, 6-2 No. 2: Becky Varnum (ND) def. Suzie Saunders (H) 6-2.6-0 No. 3: Kelly Zalinski (ND) def. Petra Holma (H) 6-0, 6-0 No. 4: Nina Vaughan (ND) def. Lynn Novack (HJ 6-3, 6-7, 6-3 No. 5: Lindsey Green (ND) def. Georgina Sesto (H) 6-1, 6-0 No. 6: Kimherly Ciuy (ND) def. Stacey Hakikawa (H) 6-3. 6-4 
Douhlcs No. I: Dasso/Varnum (ND) def. Hakikawa/Wcnger (H) 8-3 No. 2: Katie Cunha/Guy (ND) def. Novack/Saunders (H) 8-5 No. 3: Green/ Zalinski (ND) def Holma/Jennifor Oshita (H) 8-0 
#4 DUKE 5, #18 NOTRE DAME I 
Singles No. I: Meghan Miller (D) def. M. Dasso (ND) 7-6, 3-6, 6-4 No. 2: Erica 13iro (D) def. Decky Varnum (ND) 6-1. 7-5 No. 3: Kathy Sell (D) def. Kelly Zalinski (ND) 6-3, 6-1 No. 4: Hillary Adams (DJ def. Nina Vaughan (ND) 7-5. 6-4 No. 5: Lindsey Green (ND) def. Brooke Siehel (DJ 6-2. 6-0 
No. 6: Iona Plesu (D) def. Kimberly Guy (ND) 6-4, 7-6 #18 NOTRE DAME 6, #23 WASHINGTON 3 Singles No. I: Kristina Kraszw.:ski (UWJ dd.M. Dasso (ND) 4-6. 6-3, 6-1 No. 2: B. Varnum (ND) def. Zuzana Stunova (UW) 6-2, 6-2 No. 3: K. Zalinski (ND) def. Ilona Kordnnskaya (LIW) 6-4. 4-6. 6-3 No. 4: Darija Klaic (UW) def. N. Vaughan (NDJ 6-7. 6-2. 6-2 No. 5: L. Green (ND) def. Zeta Wagner ( UW) 7-6, 6-3 No. 6; K. Guy (ND) det. Colleen Gray (UW) 6-4, 3-6, 7-6 Douhlcs No. I: Klak/Krnszewski (LIW).def. !Jasso/ Varnum (ND) 8-5 No. 2: Katie Cunha /Guy (ND) def.Stunova/ Peggy Wu ( LIW l 8-5 No. 3: Green/Zulinski (ND) def. Gray/ Kordonskaya (UW) 8-3 
Observer Graphics/Mam.Ii Powdl 
match to !rad the Irish. tiebreaker. Guy saved a Washington foll to 0-l match point against hPr at (i-7 
Varn um beat Zuzana and hPld on for a (1-4. 3-(>, 7-f> Stunova 6-2. <i-2 at No. 2 sin­(10-8) victorv. gles. while Grcwn won 7-6. 6-Thr Iluski;1s rallied for wins 3 over Zeta \Vagnrr at No. 5 at Nos. 1 and 4 singlPs after singles to gnt thP Irish tlwir losing the first s!'l in both first two wins. matches for tlwir two singlns 
Arter Zalinski lwld olT 98th­wins. ranked Kordonskava (i-4. 4-(1, After Creen and Zalinski 6-3 at No. 3 singl;is. Guy put clinr.hPd tlw win, Cunha and Notni Damn ahnad 4-2 with a Guy beat Pnggy Wu and thren-set win at No. 6 singlns. Stunova 8-5 at No. 2 doubles. After losing a number of' Washington's third point was match points in a third-sd an 8-5 win at No. 1 doubles. 

January 24 -5:30 PM Deadline -January 21 January 29 -11:00 AM Deadline -January 27 
Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge 
Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge to be paid at the Golf Course on the day of the clinic. 
R~~ 
Observer Staff R,·p<>r! 
ThP l Sth-ranknd NotrP Dame wonrnn's tPnnis team ki<'kPd ol'f its 2000 dual­match snason in Kahuku, l-lawaii with a 2-l record with victories over Ilawaii and No. 2:{ Wisconsin and a loss to :\lo. 4 Duke. The Irish were schi>duled to play tho No. 14 Tennessee Volunteers but the match was rained out.. 
On Jan. 12, thn Irish blanked the Hain bow Warriors 9-0 to pir.k up t.hPir first victory or the year. The Irish lost just one set in swc!1ping th<' singlPs matches and then won all three dou­bles for the victorv. 
Junior All-/\m.crican and 4211d-rank11d Mirlwlle Dasso beat Nina Wenger (i-2. 6-2 at 
No.  l singles. and  101st­ 
ran ked  sophomore  Becky  
Varnum  defPatPd  Suzie  

Saundnrs (1-~. (1-0 at No. ~. Snnior KBlly Zalinski blanhd Petra l lolma 6-0. (1-0 at No. 3 singles. whilr: sophomore Nina Vaughan hr.lei olT Lynn Novack (1-3, (,-7. (1-3 at No. 4 singles. Sophomorn Lindsey Green beat (;eorgina Sesto 6­
1. 6-0 at No. 5 singles, while junior Kimbr:rly Guy downed Stacey llakikawa 6-3. 6-4 at No. 6 sing]P.s. 
The l0th-rankP.d doubles team of Dasso and Varnum beat Wcngor and lfakikawa 8 -:{ a t :-.J o . l do u b I es. Freshman Katie1 Cunha and Guy won 8-5 at No. 2 doubles over Novack and Saunders. whilP Groen and Zalinski blanked llolma and Jennifer Oshita at No. :1 doubles. 
Tlw Irish su!Ternd their first loss of tlw season as the Blue Dr.vi ls won l'ive of six singles matrh<'S bef'orn rairwd can­cPllnd lhP doubles competi­tion last Thursdav. The Blue Devils used straight-snt wins at Nos. 2. 3. 5 and (1 singles and a threP-set victory at No. 
I singlns to win their season opener. 
Green thP onlv match for the Irish with a 6-2. 6-0 deci­sion ovr,r 97th-ranked Brooke Siebel at No. 5 singles. Groen and Zalinski were leading Katie Granson and Kathy Sell 7-(1 at No. 3 doubles when the rains came and cancelled the doubles matches. 
The Irish responded to their loss to the Blue Devils bv win­ning four of six singles match­es and two doubles matches to beat Washington 6-3 on 

MBl's BasketbaJ __l 
.. 
Saturday, Jan. 22nd 
vs. Pittsburgh 12:00pm Joyce Center 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
Notre Dame Hockey vs W. Michigan 
7: OOpm Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
Sign up at Friday's game to win Continental Express airline tickets for 2 anywhere in the United States! 

-~tS ~p,i
f,, ....etfr~ 9 
Contlbi!11l.iill a
...... 

______________,____________ 
Wednesday, January 19, 2000 Fhe Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
Gui''f.,'I 00!-J'T Ki,/01,J IF I. r,.'< l)~l;)SJ,ICiO"JU~, c..:T C.,._!-i -n.KE P.,1'K1r~EI<! 5~. A ~"'l:IH' vP'P~F' 1.11' t.M) fW <:,R~m,s ~ltN'T c,ooo KE.E.P Ai Ii, \N• I OoN', 
l\t-\1',E.~ w,fJ\;:<..TEO f\{;._ r'v.:' "-.NOW IF ~ (.i<N 00 il<l>T 1-\._I)100 l'-\1.X.\.I S"TJi:E.S> 
Fox TROT 
HoME AT LAST. 
/ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Commotions 66 Canadian Indian 1 Drops out of the 33 Somersault 67 breve game (music marking) 
35 Football-shaped 6 Bryn_ 68 Concert pianist 
39 Tabasco quality

College Claudio
40 Worth an "F" 

10 Complement of 69 Coop group 
42 Like French socks 

70 Kennel plaint 14 Martin's ''That's toast 
43 Indian honorific 71 Any "I Love 

" 
Lucy" episode, 
45 Poet Teasdale 

15 Baseball family 
now name 
46 Tart plum 16 Ferber of fiction 47 Poet McKuen 
DOWN 

17 Keys to a jail? 49 FedExed 1 Almanac tidbit 19 Beats by a hair 51 Pull a boner 2 Baseba\ler20 Track support 52 Rectangular 
Vizquel 21 Reorganize, score marking 
3 Unattendedand then some 56 Subway 4 Smeltery waste23 Ford Explorer, alternative 5 Biological wall 

e.g. 58 "Slips my mind" 6 Leonine locks 
24 Tavern 59 Sonora shawls munchies 7 Rathskeller
63 They have holes 
quaff25 None too smart in their middles 28 Soggy ground 64 Faith among 8 On the decline 

9 Fraternity hopeful 10 Source of some 

30 Actor Wallach Jailbirds? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
iail violence? 11 Polite goodbye 

SWAPITSPS A A R E H A U T 
12 Enter 
13 Horse-hoof smoothers 18 "_Madigan" 

WILDSWINE 
-C 
O R O T ¦ T A U 
(1967 film) 22 Comic strip "_ and Janis" 24 Site of longtime strife 25 Haagen-_
APT ...EN ET 
26 Inkling 27 Dance in a 90's rock club 29 Column 

S T Y E 
crossers 
oo BM> ~ OAI) ~'i SIIY w1i:r I'., \IJ • 

BILL AMEND  
INi'II'! FWAP.' FwA!'' l'Vll\1' 1 At>' l'WA!'!  1 WISH THE IC1DS WOULDN'T USE THEIR F.&.THER'S &ooO HAT ON THEIR SNOWMEN.  


Puzzle by Fred Plscop 
32 Side dish in a 53 Prior to, 60 Sound of a fine­jail? dialectally tuned engine 34 Tackle box item 54 ''Two Women" 
61 Jacob's twin 

36 Make eyes at Oscar winner 37 Stereotypical 55 Pilfered 62 Leave lab assistant speechless
57 Wilkes-_, Pa. 
38 Coloring expert 
59 Piece of cake 65 Scarcely
41 Surgical incision 
maker 44 Tennis's Bjorn Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 48 Wedding band are available by touch-tone phone: 
alternative 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). 50 Prophylaxis Annual subscriptions are available for the target best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 52 Thumb years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-_...______ 
page 23 JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

beam.1@nd.edu 
_ 

HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESOAY, JANCARY 19, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Dnlh f'artnn, Robert l'.,lmer. Shl"lle,· Fabares, Jmn StaplPton. Desi Arna,,, Ir...1,mis Joplin 
Happy Birthday: Put ,·nursl'lf inst. If ,·nu ne<;d to build up you, sclf-<;steem, get busv cfoing whate,·L'r is necessar\' tn feel n1ore l.:onfidenL ; hl' better ·,·ou project vours<;lt this n•ar, the turther n•u"II get You han• h, bt' willing to put \ ours"lf first if ,·-tn1 \..,..,1nt to make son1e heild\\'t1Y. \·ou han• much rnorL' to offer th,1n you realize, so stop letting others get ,111 the ~lory when ~-Ln1're just a:. c-1pabl!' as the,· are. Ynur numbers: 6, 1-l, 23, 31, 39, ..~ 
ARIES (',,larch 21-April 19): Delays due to transportahnn difficul­ties ma,· put a dent in your \\·allet. You will have to move fast if n1u mtl'nd to meet \'our deadlines. 0,1n't let delavs set v,iu off lusl do the best vou ca,i. 00 · -TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Concentrate on work-related mat­ters. You should look into ''"-ff=' of pamperi11g nrnrself. A little tender hwing care is in order. Social e,·ents \\·ill be worth attending. Romance is in the air. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You ma\' dri, e \'Our mate craz,· with vour emotioi1al ups and do\\"i1s. Put a concerted effort into telling the truth when dealing with emotional matters and moti,·es. Tr\' to control vour anxieh·. 000 · . -CANCE-R (June 21-July 22): You are in iwed of a hug and a little underst,mdmg. Don't be ,·ulnerable to the point that you pick the \\'rong partner. Be careful not to get im·oh·ed in one-sided infatLJatiL>ns. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put rnur h•st foot forward at ,,·ork Take care of all those small but necessan­details, or be SUn' that someone else 
EUGENIA LAST 
is do111~ it for \'OLL Vi.sit an L,ld fripnd \\ ho 1i',1~11·t been doing too \\·ell 
000 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): IJnn't gl'I imT>h ed in big extra,·aganzas or large grc.,ups. ,nu c11v too gi,·ing c1nd \\·ill SLJreh· be taken ad,·antage of. Sudden changes regarding n,ur friends "ill lea\'\! vou feeling sad 
0000 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You can acqum' knrl\\ ledgl' through tr,n-el or readm~ maten,11 that elaboratcs on rnur i;11L•rests. Yuur quick \\"it will \\'in \'l>u points ,nth the b,,ss ,ind enhance\ our reputation 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a good look at n,ur personal papers. You rna, want to make changes or updates You_ should be able to give sorneone close to ~rou good adYice ,,bnut their <1\\'11 iinancial needs. 
00000 

SAGITTARIUS (No\'. 22-Dec. 21): \-take decisions about , our pn>­fessional direction. Take the time to sort out , our personal situation. Joint ,·entures may ha,·e put a damper on a close relationship. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your partner will be sure to r)l'erreact ii \·ou question his or her where­abouts or spending habits. Keep promises that ,·ot1 alread,· made, but refrain from m·aking anv inore. 000 
AQCARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will not hand le vour mone,· well. Put it in a sale pl~ce. Don't bl' talked into bu,·ing things ,·ou just don't need. Lending to friends will result in a loss of cash and ill-feel­ings 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Diffi­culties ""ith a friend or lrwer \\·ill result in estrangement. Tn· tn put vourseli in vour friend's sh,ies. You should back awav from the situation and let him or her calm down. 
00000 

Birth.day Raby: You are sensitiw and 5\\'eet and al\\'avs willmg to L>pen \'Our heart to those you encounter throughout n,ur life. You arc lrwal, dedi­cated and \\'illing to do whateYer is necessan-to help thL1SC in need. Yi1u ,ire a trooper ,d10 1,·i!I ne,·er back do\\'n from ,·our beliefs and ,·alues 
(Need acfrice7 Check out Eugen iii·, Web sites ,,i astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) -' ::11')1.l l:11\ vr::.,1l rrc,:-S,·1d11:.111.. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 
City _______State ____ Zip______ 
_________J 

. w.. 
Irish assessed draft cards 
Four current and.future Irish hockey players haue been rated among the top 1 60 draft-eligible pla!Jers by the /\/Ill.
PORTS 
page 22 

O
fHE page 24 BSERVER 
=================================================--=-======================-=-=====-~----=---=-====================== 
Wednesday, January 19, 2000 
Sanctions change nothing 
Anv Notrr Dame student who read.the media c.overnge of the NCAA sanctions pla.red on thP Irish football team must haw been shocked whr.n they rcturnrd to rampus and found that rvr.rv­thing was continuing norma.11~ and the Dome had­not col­lapsed. 
With llw 

NCAA 
announce­ment that Notre Dame would lose mw football scholarship each year for the next two ypars and bA plarrd on probaiion for two years, almost every sports rolumnist in the countrv sud­denly felt compellPd to con­demn the Universitv and dr;dare iL'i downfali. Manv led the American publir to believe Lhat. duP to the sanr.tions, Notre Damr; would practir,ally cease to exist. 
According to most sports rolumnists. the actions of cer­tain football playr.rs intertwined in the Dunbar saga forever destroyed the University and it'i image. 
"If there was any lingering question whether the· !'l'otrP Dame of grainy black and white newsreels still existPd. whether the Fighting Irish of the earnest davs from Hockne to Rudv soi\1ehow could have Pnd~ired. that issue was oflicially, eter­nally dosed Friday." Malrolm Moran wrote in the Chicago 
-r Tribune (Dec. 18, 19991. 
But as evcrv I\Jotre Dame stu­dent learned ~pcm returning for this semester. probation changed nothing. 
Studr;nLs still go to dass. rec­tors continue to enforce pari­etals and most studenl'i are more concerned with class schedules than Kim Dunbar's bank records. 
Studenls at Notre Dame know an important fact that seems to be beyond the grasp of most sports writers: Notre Dame is more than a football team. and the foot.ball t.eam is much greatAr than the actions of a fow players who let their greed ,rnd libido control their actions. 
"Now. INntrr D,tmel is just another college that plays foot­ball ... And. worst of all. without murh honor citlrnr," Mike 

see CONNOLLY/ page 21 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Murphy struggles in return to Jersey 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sp"rrs Ediro1 
Tuesday's showdown with Big hast f'on HutgPrs in Piscataway. 
N.J .. was suppos<-d to bP a honwcoming for NotrP Danw standout Troy Murphy. 
lnstoad. tlw sophomorP for­ward, who hails from Sparta. N..1.. rPCPived a rucJ,, awakPn­ing. 
From the playnr introductions to posting up in tilt~ paint. Murphy was harnss1!d by Scarlot Knight fans and playPrs alikP. i\nd tlw rPsl of' tlw Irish didn't !'am rnurh bPlLPr. 
llutg1•rs (10-6. 2-2l jumpl'd out to a 11-0 !Pad to start tlw ganw and nnver lollkPd bark, routing Notn• Dall1!\ 111-7. 2-2) 76-51. HutgPrs J'n\shman Todd Bill<1t single-handPdly outsrnn·d tlw Irish in tlw l'irsl half. Tlw Scarlet Knight point guard put up 20 points in the lirst :w min­utes and gaw ButgPrs a 32-1 (J 1<1ad at the break. 
Tlw 16 points allowed in tlw first half WPrP tlw f'pwest in school history for ButgPrs. 
BillP.t finished with 31 points for the gamP and connPctPd on a srhool-record Pight 3-point­ers. As a team. HutgPrs madP 13-of-22 threP pointers and shot 4£1 pcrcPnt from the lidd. 
MPanwhilc, Notn' DamP struggled, shooting a season­low :~o pPITent and a dismal 22 pt'rccnt from bPvond lhP arr. ThP Irish wer.(' also out­n~bounded 40-28. 
Murphy, tlw nation's sPrond leading scorer with 24.9 points pnr game. drcvv double and triple tt1ams all ganrn and fin­islwd with just 18 points on 5­
see M. B-BALL / page 20 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish roll to No. 5 ranking, top of Big East 
By KERRY SMITH 
Assistam Sports Editor 
EvPry team has a weak­ness, but finding a weak link when the Notre Dame women's basketball team steps onto the r,ourt is becom­ing an inr.reasingly harder task with each notch the Irish put in the win column. 
At 14-2. Notre Damn sits atop the Big East runkings with a 5-0 conforcnce record. 
Now. the Irish are riding a 10-game winning streak. They broke a lJnivArsily record Saturday against Syrar:wrn with their 16th ron­s e cutiv e home win, and 
secured with an on-the­road win 
o v e r Pittsburgh Tuesday. 
Hanked nfth in the 


Associated Ivey Press poll, the Irish -enjoying th1iir biglrnst ranking in school his­tory -showed no signs of contcntmcnt as they put away Big East Rival Pittsbuq~h. 67­53. 
Freshman guard and lead­ing sr.orer Alicia Hatay led the Irish squad a_g-ainst tho Panthers with 17 points from 
the backcourt. Junior forward Kelly Siemon was nipping at Hatay's heels as she added 14 points for the Irish. 
Junior center Huth Hiley knocked in 12 points !'rorn the paint and came up big on defense with thren blocked shots. Led by Hilcy's pres­ence on the inside. the Irish allowed the panthnrs to shoot only 37 percent from the field. 
Led by guard Gina Montesaro, the Panthers rnme within 9 points al I.ho half. 31-22, but wern unabh• to overcome a tough Irish defense in thc sr.cond half. losing by 14. 
Th(~ Irish led by 20 points when Siemon knocked in a jumper for th(~ 45-25 lead midway through tho sPcond half. The Panthers. after call­ing a timeout to stop Irish momentum, scored six unan­swered points but could not rlose the gap as the Irish went on a 13-4 run. leading with a 23-poinl cushion. 

The Irish dominated on the boards, out-rebounding tlw l'antlrnrs 42-26. 
With their third straight loss, the Panthers fell to 11-(> on thn season and 2-4 in thn Big East. 
The l'anthf'rs will have one morn chancp to unseat the 
see W. B-BALL / page21 


Troy Murphy, shown here in a December game, was held in check by a stingy Rutgers defense in front of a hostile crowd in New Jersey. 
ac Adrian 

vs. Pittsburgh \Vednesday, 7:30 p.m. Men's Swimming
Sarnrday, 12 p.m. 
SPORTS 

Bill Riner lnvirarional at Milwaukee
ATA 

vs. Western Michigan ar Miami 
Saturday, 10 a.m. Friday, 7:05 p.m. Saturday, 2 p.m. 
GLANCE 








