
Victim responds
Got beer? 

Monday
The victim ofan alleged rape reported in 

People for the Ethical Treatmenl ofAnimals 
The Observer last Monday writes about her

claims that beer is better for you 
situation and decision not to press charges. 

(and cows) than milk. 
APRIL 10, 
Scene . page 11 
section . page 9 

2000 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXX.111 N0.118 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
see LOAN/page 4 



Howard: Judge science for self 
By TOM ENRIGHT News Writer 
Human dignity extends to more than issues of abor­tion, according to the plan­ners of this past weekend's Hight to Life Collegiate Conference. 
The conference, planned and hosted by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, presented speakers and workshops on issues ranging from abortion to euthanasia. 
Among lectures presented was a discussion of fetal experimentation and bioethics by father Joseph Howard. director of the American Bioethics Advisory Committee. Speaking of the processes and issues promi­nent in bioethics today, Howard called upon college students to act as instru­
ments for future policy changes. "Some argue that science is amoral. Each person sub­
jectively  
j u ct g e s science  See Also  
for him- "Rice: Push pro-life  
s e If, " s a i d  agenda to  
Howard,  general public"  
criticiz­ing sub­ page 12  
j cc ti v e  

philosophies that ultimately view humans as objects. 
Howard compared today's attitudes toward human life with those found in Aldous Huxley's "Brave New World." 
"The era of Huxley ... has arrived and we are living in it as I speak," he said. 
Howard described the con­temporary beginnings of sci­entific manipulation of fer­tilized cells with the begin­ning of in vitro fertilization. Ile said that at first this 
process was heralded as a pro-life science because it helped people to bear chil­dren. Describing the process of in vitro fertiliza­tion, Iloward argued that the process as performed today actually violates nat­ural law. 
Howard said that in vitro fertilization violates the intrinsic dignity of human life, citing a case where six parents fought for custody of a child conceived by in vitro fertilization and carried by a host mother. Each life, ho said, has a right to natural fertilization. 
Howard also noted that 
see LIFE/page 4 

ALOHA! 


The sounds and smells of the 
Pacific islands came alive Saturday night at the I Iawaiian Club's 2000 Luau: Hawaiian 
Legends. Performers like sophomore Winona Farias (left) displayed the traditional hula 
dance. while all participants enjoyPd culinary favorites like poi. lomi lomi salmon and kalua pig (above). 
photos by LIZ LANG 




Law students rally for school loan forgiveness 
. O'Hara on right track to aid service­minded graduates, former dean says 
By ERIN LaRUFFA As.,ismH New, Editor 
With rain running ink off their posters, a group of Notre Dame Law School students and their supportors rallied Friday outside thr !\fain Building for loan for­giveness for graduates who pur­stw public Sf'fvice careers. 
"[I.aw sLudcnts] really want to come here to be public interest lmvyers ... They want to follow thn words of the Pope, buL they just can't afford to," third-year law student Ben Ilornc said to an assembled crowd. 
Rudy Monterrosa, a second­year law sludent, led the crowd in a chant of' 'llarvard. Yale. NYU. Loan forgiveness -we want it too.' in reference to three leading law schools that already have loan forgiveuess programs. 
Monterrosa decided to attend Notre Dame Law School because of its commitment to public ser­vice, he said. 
"I think what we do at Notre Dame is very important ... I think w_e ~.o thin~s to help our commu­mty, he said. 
Many law school graduates practice corporate law immedi­ately after graduating as a means of paying off' their debts. said Monterrosa. Some of those 


House Speaker 
gives talk on political ethics 
By TIM LOGAN News Writer 
Our elected leaders should avoid partisanship and act upon their values, not political expediency, when making decisions affecting public life, said Dcmnis Hastert, speaker or the House of Representatives, Saturday. 
Hastert. a Hepublican l'rom Illinois. spoke to a standing-roorn­only crowd in the Ilesburgh Center Auditorium about the importance of maintaining a core philosophy of belief's in leadership. 
"Our mission is made easier when the politics of division takes a back seat to the progress of unity." 


Hastert said. "Unfortunatelv. some Hastert of the most important ideas·gr•t lost in a thicket or partisanship." 
IIastert went on to list some of his party's primary objectives. including using a portion of tlw fodPral bud­get surplus to rnt taxes. and putting tlw rest towards paying down the national debt. Ile said that if the dr.bt remains the same, one college-ago American will spend approximately $190,000 during his lifotime just to pay off the debt's interest. 
Hastert, a former high school teaclwr, also discussed the importance of quality education. llP said lw encourages greater partnership betv.·el'll public and private schools in this country and, at the same time. respects the many different circumstances that affect schools across the nation. 
"We should encourage expansion of' educational opportunities for all children, whether they be in a public school or a private or parochial school:" he said. "No child should be denied quality education just because his or her parents are saddled with financial restraints." 
In both his speech and the subsequent question-and­
see HASTERT/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, April I0, 2000 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Is Elian a child 
ofrevolution? 
Yeah, vou know the st()rv. Elian Gonzalez was fou~d in an inner tube and he's in Miami, but he·s going to be sent back lo Cuba soon. The law says he must go back, so you believP he should go back, but do you really know the law? 
Some or you r('ading !his right now must be thinking 
Maribel Morey 

that Elian should be r1mnit­ed with his father in Cuba bemuse parental rights are News Copy 
more important that Elian 's Editor right to freedom in the United States. That would probably be t.rue if parents had any rights in Cuba. When Castro look control of the govern­
ment. he rewrote the constitution. and the state. instead of parents, has custody or chil­dren. lie \\'ould not be returning tu his father but rather to the Communist government. 
It's also quite ironic that Castro is now the spokesperson for parental rights, especially considering he kidnapprd his own son approxi­mately 30 years ago. While in Mexico, he per­suaded his ex-wife to send his son on a two­week vacation. but he never sent him bark to his mother. Instead. he sent the boy to a couple in Mexico that he trusted. 
Now that Castro is dictator of the island. Cuban parents have limited rights over their childrm. Elian rould stay ,vith his dad until he's 11. Then he would have to work in a farm­labor ramp and continue military service. Yeah. it would be easy for me to sit here in front of my laptop in a cushy university and say that Elian must comply with the law. I mean. if that law book in that dusty library says that Elian must go, then doesn't that mean he has to go? 
Not really. 
I understand Attornev General Janet Reno has a job lo uphold the.law, but we can make a difTerenre. If we voice our Pducated opinions on issues. then maybe laws can be changed. PPrhaps there can be a subpoint that states: 1) ;\ refugee child brought by his mother to the United States will be sent back to his father unless (al his rnolher divorced his father for physical abuse and she died to reach freedom with the child: (bl or he will be returned to a Communist government where his dad doesn't even have parental rights: (c) or his grand­mothers molest him and admit to it on national tPhwision. 
It's sad but tnrn that we're all tired of hear­ing about this case that has continued since Thanksgiving when Elian was found in an inrn~r tubi: off tlrn mast of Florida. Actually, wouldn't you be Pven more tin~d of this story if you were Elian'? As you play in your yard. cam­rras arr watching your every step whilr the Cuban and American governmfmts juggle their own political agendas. 
Forget that Elian is Cuban or that there is a large Cuban-American community in Miami supporting him. lie is a !'.hild with a politically rontrollrd rate whose father is under complete Communist control. 
f cannot begin to imagine the fate that awaits Elian. Bern~ath the post-cold war Communism vs. Democracy rivalry there is a six-year old boy. Perhaps thP Cuban-American rommunity has used Elian as an icon of' freedom. but Castro could just as easily use him as a Communist svmbol, a child of the revolution. when he rntu"rns to Cuba. 
The l'if'ws expressed in the Inside Column Clre those r~f the nuthor and not necessarily lhose of7he Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Michelle Krupa Amanda Greco Jason Mcfarlev 
Graphics Nicole Haddad 
Jose Cuellar Sports 
Production Kathleen O'Brien 
Kachk~n O'Rrien 

Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Lila Haughey 
Kevin Dalum Colleen Gaughcn 
T!tr Oliservn (USPS 599 2-~000) is published Mond,1y dm.H1~h frid,1y cx1.:ept durin~ ex;1m and v-.1c,.nion pericxls. l11e Observer is a member of die Asso~iMcJ Prcs:-i. All n:pruJucritlll righrs are reserved. 
Police review Michigan St. festivities 
EAST LANSING. Mirh. 

East Lansing police officials started rrvirwing footage Thursday of' celebrations after the Michigan State Unirnrsitv's men's basketball team bnat Wisconsin and Florida during tlw NC/\A tournanrnnt last week. The university Oepartment of Police and Public Safety and East Lansing Police DPpartmrnt usrd video recording equipnrnnt to tape tlrn nearly 15,000 peoplr who l'illed thn streets near Cedar Village Apartments and thousands more who poured into the downtown area. The tapes could be usnd as evidrncn to identify people brrnking !he law. "There were some individual cases of destruction of property. and there werr a few people that were assaulted," East Lansing police Lt. Thomas Johnstone said. "As l'ar as launching a major investigation. no. we'rn only looking for a f'nw disturbanrns that happened." Johnstone said the department also will use the tapPs to review how it responded to the masses of people. University police Detective Tony Willis said his department has not looked at its tapes. Ile said police taped crowds "just to sec what was going on" after the game. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Lecture: "Virtual  . Lecture: "Some  . Theatre: "The Love of  . Lecture: "Implenrnnting  
Solidarity: Working for  Provocative Ideas about the  the Nightingalr," by  a New Marketing Strategy"  
Justir,e in World HPligions"  ()uality ol' Oernocracy" by  Timberlake Werwnbaker.  by Mike Mojica. 7 p. m..  
by Tamara Sonn. 2 p.m.  Michad Copprdge, 12:30  7:30 p.m.. Washington  Collegr, of' Businflss  
Hesburgh /\uditorium  p.111 .. llesburgh Auditorium  llall. tickr,ts at 631-8128  . Music: J\coustil' Cafe.  
. Discussion: Author .J.D.  . Lecture: "t\fter Virtue"  . Film: 'Thn World or  student pnrf'ornwrs. 1) p.m.,  
llolun, 7:30 p.m .. first  by Denis Donoghue, 4:1 !i  /\pu," 8 p.rn., Montgomery  The lluddle, LaFortune  
iloor. Hammes Bookstore  p.m., Eck Auditorium  Theatre  Student Center  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
U. Georgia pledge's death linked to hazing 
CII.\RLOTTESVILL!i, Va. in th<~ future.
"Our reaction to this incident 
University of' Georgia officials said "We always reeval uatn Ipolicfos I
was in line with our current
thc~ death of' Georgia sophomore after drcumstances of' this nature," Benjamin Folsom Grantham Ill in a student conduct code. " he said. traflic accident last week was rrlat­Now education is a large part nl' ed to a fraternity hazing incident. Georgia's hazing policy. Tim school
Matthew Winston

Grantham, an Alpha Tau Omega takes "a vrry educational approach
University of Georgia spokesman
(/\TOI pledge, was riding in the to knowing what tlw policy is and cargo area of' a sports utility vehicle what the repercussions arc." driven by a fellow fraternity member Georgia Greek Lil'P Coordinator when the vrhicle 11ipprd over and hit tfw accident, Urn Georgia chapter of' Claudia Schamp said. "W,, hav<\ a tree. t\TO was subjected to an interim mandatory seminars whrrr we dis­
Four other ATO pledges who also suspension following Grantham's cuss the policy." were in thr car survived the crash. death. Arcording to assistant dean or stu­
/\n autopsy has shown that University of Georgia spokesman d n n ts /\aron Laushway, tho Grantham was handcuffed at the Matthew Winston said hazing is University of Virginia's policy con­time of the crash and mav have bnen against Georgia policy. crrning Greek hazing is vPry similar blindfolded as well. · "We do not tolerate it," Winston to Georgia's. 
Two other passengers were hospi­said. "Our reaction to this particular "All fraternities and sororitins talized. incident was in line with our current must educatn their mnmbership. No charges have been madr yet studrnt condu!'.t code." both new, potential and actiw, ron­regarding the incident. But he said it is possibln that cerni ng the I hazing] policy." 
Pending further investigation of Georgia will change its hazing policy Laushway said. 

Allanta  73  55  Las Vegas  81  58  Portland  70  48  
Baltimore  61  44  Memphis  75  57  Sacramento  80  50  
Q,rQ,~cQQ.Q ~  ~  u  Boston Chicago  54 39  38 33  Milwaukee New York  34 54  25 41  St. Louis Tampa  63 80  44 59  
Showers  T-storms  Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Houston  76  65  Philadelphia  59  45  Wash, D.C.  63  49  
Vis Associated Press GraphtcsNel  

Turturro attends Princeton talk 
l'HINCETON. N . .J. 

Minus thr pink bodysuit and hairrwt lw donrwd as Jesus ()uintana in the 1998 hit film "ThP Hig Lnbowski." John Turturro is thoughtful and snll'-com­posed. Turturro arrivPd at Princeton Thursday clad rnnservatively in a black sweater and whit<' button­down shirt. hardly looking likr a man who rnn bring to life viol<mt gangsters and wildly crude bowlPrs. In a smooth voirn. Turturro articu latP ly discussed his career with thn intellectual pnrsp<w.tive ol' an acad<'m­
ic. Last. week's campus cnlebralion ol' thn work ol' Italian f'ilmmaker Franrnsco Hosi incl udPd llw East Coast prnmicre ol' "The Trucn." Hosi's film vPrsion ol' flolocaust survivor Primo Levi's autobiographical novel or tlw samr name. The 199G production starring Turturro was not relPased in the United StalPs. but. according to Bosi, the film met with succPss around the world. Thursday Turturro participatPd in a round­table discussion. /\fter lidding questions for an hour and a hall', Turturro took some more tinw to answPr some questions about the film. "ll will bP with nw l'or­1wer ... l'ornver." he said ol' his roln in tlrn lilm. 
5 Day Saith B End Fmecast 
l\::nllretrer l'OIB'.BSt far ceyt:.irce cm:litims arrlhigh tenpa:atures 
The AccuWeather<"' forecast for noon, Monday, April 10. 
_,..... 

r~ ....,1,-~--~. 
! 
H L 

i 

Tuesday ~ 43 35 
! 
Wednesday ~ 50 36 Thursday c::::1 51 36 Friday\ ~57 40 
(Cl 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
;' ; High Low Shower• Rain T-etorms Flurrlee Snow Ice Sunny pt_ Cloudy Cloudy 




Via Assoc1m•d Prass 


Saturday ~65 45 
-
----------------------~-------------~-~-­
Monday, April 10, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Congressman shares past with Black Law Association 
"All ol' mv life I've drPamt cal oflicials. 
By HELENA RAYAM 
about runnir;g for Congress mid Because of Poi-d's political
New, \X'riler 
serving my district." Ford said. rootc;, the University of Michigan At 26, Pord was l'lected to the School of Law graduate had 
,\bout 20 yPars ago, IIousn of Hcpresentatives a.'i the some difficulties separating him­Co11grcssman l11.1rold Fonl, Jr. youngest mPmber of the I05th self as a candidato, sat in his l\fomphis. TPnn . honw Congress. I le "I was not cloing Jwrrn,work to prqJ,tr<' for was re-elcct-really taken
"All the criticism about 
his luturl'. 1' d to a sec­seriously initially "\\'lwn I was growing up. WP ond tnrm in my age ... helped mold the by my oppo­r.ouldn't go outside until WP fill­I ')9~ and nents," said
political platform I had." 
islwrl our honwwork." said Ford. ,·rirnmlly will Ford, adding 
,\ft1\r y11ars or workin)!; bef'on' run unop­that people playing. h1nl and his 1wighbor­posnd in Uw Harold Ford, Jr. roforrod to bis h ood pl.nyrnatPs inclurlP l'ivP 2000 con­Congressman eloetiun as a lnwycrs. thrP(' doctors and a grnssional "graduation
on his 1996 campaign
military oi1irN. among otlwrs. P]Pctions. gift."
for the House
Fore( a Dr-mrH-rat, r0flectnd 011 "This man "The nucleus his road to CongrPss and his COlllt\S from a of [my oppo­politirnl canwr to law students proud rolitical tradition," said nPnt's] campaign was that I was 
during Saturday's lncturP, "Sp[f BLSA prnsidcnl Tamara Walker, young and inexperienced." said 
(Ip[µ: Empowt>ring Ourst>IV(JS who attended elementary school ford. "All or that criticism about with a l\l1\w i\ttitudP." Ttw Inc­with rord in Tmrnessce. Ford's my age ... hrlped mold the polit­tun· was purl or tlw 27th annual rather was a representative in ical platform I had," said Ford. Hla1'.k Law Stlldl'l1t Association's th,) U.S. !louse, and several Since his election, Ford has !BIS:\) !\lumni WPPkPml. ollwr l'amily membrrs arc politi-faced the challenge of trying to 
be heard ,1s a young congress­man in the minority party. Ford said even on some parti­

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
san issues like gun control and campaign financing, Democrats and Republicans still desire

~himb·:-:MusIQVE 
political efficacy. "In the end, we all pretty
CONCERT XIV 
much want the same thing," said Ford. ''I'm a Democrat, but I'm a Congressman first. No matter

~cbola 
how much I hate your political views, no matter how much you

Jlflusicorum 
hate my political views, I would never want to hurt one of your

9:30 p.m. 
constituents." 

Nevertheless, the "demise, ary, and capable people," he a common purpose.incivility and conviction" in poli­
Wed., Apr. 12, 
added. . "As corny and idealistic as it
Basilica of the Sacred 
tics are examples of political 

Ford referred to Martin Luther sounds, this system only works if 
corruption that, Ford said, arc 

King's "Letter from a good people get involved," said
Heart 
displeasing. 

Birmingham Jail," reiterating Ford. "Our challenge now is to Free and open to the public. 
"[These havcl damaged our 

one of King's point that everyone figure out how we strengthen www.nd.edu/-music for more info 
ability to attract smart, vision-is connected and in the world for that mutuality." 




page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 10, 2000 
Hastert 
continued from page 1 
answer session, Hastert touched on a number of issues of importance to the Catholic university audience. 
He said he hopes Presidf'nt Hill Clinton will not veto the partial-birth abortion ban which the Senate passed last week, but he acknowledged that that may not be likely. The Speaker also said Im hopes to prevent foreign aid from going to groups that would encourage their governments to enact legislation that strengthens abortion rights. 
Hastert stopped short of endorsing a national death penalty moratorium, such as that recently enacted by Illinois Governor George Hyan, but he did say there should bfl some guarantees to DNA testing and a quality defense in capital punishment cases. 
Hastert also addressed the controversial selec­tion of the House chaplain, saying he hoped the appointment of Father Daniel Coughlin to the posi­tion would "help us heal" wounds brought on by accusations of anti-Catholicism. Presbyterian TTevt•rend Charles Wright was initially selected over a Catholic priest who had more support among the bipartisan nominating committee. 
While Ilastcrt said lhe committee was intended onlv to select three nominees, the House Republican leadership was charged with anti­Catholicism. After this controversy ensued, Hastert selected Coughlin on the advice of Chicago arch­bishop Cardinal Francis George. The Speaker said his critics on this matter were engaging in a dan­gerous game. 
"Those who try tu use religion as a means for political maneuvering can unleash disastrous con­sequences, like a child playing with matches," Im said. 
Hastert was rlected Speaker of tlrn !louse in January 1999, shortly after Clinton's impeach­ment. lie represents Illinois' 14th Congressional district. in Chicago's western suburbs. lie has been a member of the House since 1986 and spent 16 years teaching government and history at an Illinois high school. 
His speech on Saturday was a part of the Hanley Lectures on Values and Public Policv, which are delivered both on campus and at thr. University's study program in Washington, D.C. 
Life 
continued from page I 
because human life begins at conception, the current process used with in vitro fortil­ization actuallv kills human life. Thn current tl'lchnique !'or the process involves fflrtilizing multiple eggs and then selecting those which are potentially most viable for transplant into a mother. Those fortilizr,d embryos deemed unlit for transplant are discarded. 
"Each person must be protected from the moment ol' conception," said Howard. 
Tim techniques and implications of cloning and genetic manipulation also armm during Howard's prnscmtation. 
Noting that cloning rnscarch could make possible tlrn use of cells for spam organs, Howard said all such actions must be ana­lyzed by the action itself, by the means and ends used. 
Cloning, Iloward argued, p1irvnrts the ideas of personhood. II' cloning bocamn a reality, som11one could become the daughter of her grandmother or t.hc sister of her mother. 
The Human Genome Project, which could soon present the layout of an entire person's genetic makeup, must also come under uxamination. 
Each of us, said Howard, is born with 11vn to 50 genetic errors in our DNA that could become evident as we age. No one is con­ceived with perfect DNA. 
Howard also discussed the implications of stem cell research that could involve remov­ing the brain cells from aborted fetuses. Such cells are used by research institutions for treating dementia associated with HIV. Howard noted altPrnatives for sources of such cells such as the placenta. Still, he argued, any undifferentiated cell obtained for research that can potentially grow into a complete human violates ethics as well. 
While Howard criticized contemporary secularism that "has become a religion in and of itself," he concluded his prescntatio11 on a positive note. 
"God is calling collegians to work l'or life," he said. 
Loan 
continued from page 1 
lawyers intend to move to public intnrost law once their loans am repaid, but they often become "trapped" in tho lucrative corporate world. 
Thomas Shaffer, a former law school dean who still works at Notre Dame's Legal Aid Clinic, spoke in support of loan forgivmrnss. He praised current law school dean Patricia O'l lara for her com­mitmPnt to loan f'orgiv11m1ss. 
In lrnr first year as dean, O'llara has made financial aid -which includes schol­arships and loan forgiveness -one of her live top priori­ties, according to third-year law student Marisa Salizar. who helped organize. tlrn rally. Salizar added that the university is currently seek­ing a donor to assist with loan lhrgivcnoss. 
Bally organizers wanted tho ovent's message to be a positive way to thank the University for recognizing the 
issue of loan forgivcrrnss, Salizar said. 
Timm arc different wavs f'or law schools to help stti­donts who intend to pursue public interest careers. One is to offer scholarships at the beginning of their three years of school. 
Schools can also forgive loans. For example, one pos­sible mllthnd involves sending a graduate a check for a rnr­tain p!ircentage of tuition costs al't!ir each year the lawyer works in public ser­vicn. 
The lawyer then uses that money to pay off loans. 
The problem is that the debt of some law students approaches $100,000 or more, Shaffer said. In addi­lion, lawyers who snrvn Americans who can alTord Inga! snrvicns greatly out­nurnlwr thos,i who serve citi­znns who cannot, he added. 
"It keeps Itlw poorI locknd out," Shaffer said, explaining that bccaUS(' lawyers lwlp in "unlocking" doors for the poor, more public interest lawy1irs arn neednd. 



Faculty Senate Forum Diversity and Community* Presenters: Carol Mooney, Vice President and Associate Provost Adela Penagos, Coordinator, Multicultural Student Affairs Jimmy Gu.rule, Professor, Notre Dame Law School Discussion to Follow :M:onday, April 10th 1 00-1 04 CCE, M:cKenna Hall 3:00 ­5:00 *Based on the Provost's Taskforce Committee Report on Diversity and Community  


orld 



Monday, April 10, 2000 COMPILED PROM TUE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Source: U.S. Troops leaving Saudi Arabia 
RIYADH 

Tim Unitf'cl Sta!Ps, which has come under criticism f'or maintaining military forces in Saudi Arabia nine years aflcr the Gulf War, is moving somP of' its 4,000 airmen out of thP des(1rl kingdom, a U.S. military official said Sunday. It was not immediately clear if the rhangn was link(•d to a growing unnasf' in the Saud.i gowrnnwnt about hosting C.S. troops. Besidt>s Saudi Ambia. other (,ull' states sur.h as Kuwait have increasingly been criticized by t/Je.ir O\'vn people and by other r.Iuslim nations ['or hosting l 1.S. military bases. U.S. Defense Secrotary William Cohen, who is on a regional tour. discussnd the logistics or the move with i\1m•rica11 comman<lPrs at tlw Prince Sultan i\ir Base in t.bc Saudi desert, said the official, who is bas,~ci in Saudi Arabia and spoke on rnndition of anonymity. 
Illness may impede Elian custody handover 
MIAMI 

Tlw cousin \vho has stepped in as Elian Gonzalez's surrogate mother battled illness again Sunday, cn'ating a possible obstacle to llw niePling b,~t\\'fH,n psychiatrists and the 6­~'rar-old's !\iliarni n•lalivcs to arrange a cus­tody handoV(\r. Psychiatrists and a psycholo­gist am schn!uhid to meet this wcr;k with the '.\liami rclalivns at /< ttorn<'Y Genr.ral .Janet l{11nn's rl'qucst. Lazaro Gt;nzalez, Elian's grr.at-uncfp and tr.mporary guardian, said he was "willing to honor" a nrncting at 2:30 p.m. 'vlonday. But lw asked that it be scheduled as tentativfl bemuse of his daughter's admission to a hospital Saturday. '.'vlarisleysis Gonzalez has b11cn hospitalized scvnral times in recent wreks, suffnring from exhaustion. 
President Weizman may resign because of poor health 
.JERUSALEM 

Citing his hnalth. Ezr,r Weizman said Sunday lw would likely n1sign before his term Pnds in :wo:1 -the first timP the Israeli president spoke optmly of stPpping down since allega­tions surfacnd that he accepted hundreds of thousands or dollars !him a Frnnch millionaire. ;\rcusations surfaced in December that Weizman had accepted ovPr $300,000 in gifts from a Prench textiles magnate between 1988­
(H. wlwn lw was a C:abinnt minister and a leg­islator. Police, in findings published last week. r1•commPndPd closing tho case -but only lwrnusP the 5-yt-1ar statute of limitations had run out on two of the most snrious r:harges. rruud and brnach of public trust. 

S&P 500: Composite 
Volume:
1516.35

11111.48 899,055,488
-'-15.01 
VOLUME LEADERS 

rsmrwl IIC:5\iR '.'&: PH,MJi $ S:RW® PU:Ct 
CISCO SYSTEll!S csco .4 .36 +J.1275 '14.34 :MICROSOP'!." CORP MSF'r + J. SG +).Q61H> 99. 06 DELL COHPU'1'M DJ;tr, -t?.04 -+3,6.?75 55, 1.9 MCI WORLUCOM Ilf WC:OM -1-0.SSJ +O . .:..soo •2.75 INTEL CORP UITC .5 .39 +6. 9975 136. Bl PHILIP M'OJUUS MO •1.91 -0.fJ75 22.. 50 OJU\CL'I CORP O'AC!.. +6 .00 +4.1:125 87, 12 GOAMJ:'R.ICA l.NC GONI D 0 16.00 NASDAQ 100 SlU\.R OQQ +4 .0'2 44.1:rno 106. 62 COMPAQ COMPUTl:R. CPQ +2.15 +0,6300 ;zg .es 
PERU 

Associated Press 
Ll!'vV\, Peru 

President Alberto Fujimori led in early results Sunday in Peru's presiden­tial election, but appeared headed for a runoff vote in his attempt to win an unprecedented third five­year term. 
Unofficial results from 99 percent of precincts showed Fujimori pulling ahead of Alejandro Toledo, with 48 percent of the vote to his opponent's 41.6 per­cent, the independent polling firm Apoyo said. 
Hours earlier, an exit poll by the same firm gave Toledo 45.2 percent to Fujimori's 43.6 percent. 
The poll did not take into account isolated rural areas inaccessible by road. where support for Fujimori was expected to be strong. Those rural areas were likely to provide the margin of victory in the closely con­tested race. 
But if the numbers hold up a runoff will be neces­sarv, since a candidate needs to obtain more than 50 percent of valid votes to win outright. 

Fujimori, 61, popular for having crushed leftist insurgencies and ending economic chaos, was facing the most serious challenge of his career from 54-year­old Toledo, a U.S.-trained economist. 
Toledo, wearing a red bandanna around his head, greeted tens of thousands of supporters outside a downtown hotel Sunday night. 
As the crowd chanted "the dictatorship has fall­en," and "Toledo presi­dent," he cautioned that it was premature to claim 
victory. But he said, "there is reason to celebrate the dawn of a new democracy in Peru." 
Apoyo director Alfredo Torres said the exit poll fig­ures were based on inter­views with 35,000 voters in 70 provinces. The margin of error was 5 percentage points. 
Apoyo's exit polls have proved highly accurate in past elections. But Torres said last week they would not include samples from the remote rural areas where 10 to 15 percent of the voters live. 

19 killed in Marine Corps aircraft crash 
Associated Pre» 
MARANA, Ariz. 
A Marine Corps aircraft attempting to land during a nighttime training rnis­sio n crashed and burst into flames. killing all 19 aboard and adding to a checkered history for a new breed of hybrid plane that can take off and land like a helicopter. 
The MV-22 tiltrotor Osprey, which looks like a turboprop, is part of a new generation of aircraft scheduled to eventuallv replace all of the Marines' primary troop-transport helicopters. The military 
began flying the aircraft six months ago. 
The four crew members in Saturday night's crash were from a task force headquartered in (Juantico. Va. The passen­gers were 14 Marines from 3rd Battalion, 5th Marines based at Camp Pendleton, Calif., and one from Marine Corps Air Station-Mi.ramar in San Diego County, according to the Marine Corps. 
On Sunday, investiga­tors were reviewing the crash site rd Marana Northwest Regional Airport west of Tucson. Few details were 

released. 
Carol Ward, who lives about five miles from the airport, said she watched the plane fly by from her porch. It disappeared behind a mountain and a few second later "I saw the smoke and this big old poof," she said. 
The dust from the crash "just eliminated the sky," she said. 
A heap of twisted. charred metal was visible at the scene and aerial footage showed a large blackened patch on the airport grounds. 
Military officials said the downed aircraft had 
been attempting to land at the airport when it crashed. 
It was one of two Ospreys simulating the evacuation of civilians, similar to what Marines would do if they were removing people from an embassy in a hostile coun­try. 
The mission was con­ducted with night vision goggles and infrared radar, officials said. 
Firefighters said wit­nesses reported seeing 1.hfl plane head straight down and become engulfed in names after it crashed. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April I 0, 2000 

ND experts debate Ugandan cult crisis 
. Professors discuss Church's responsibility in mass murder by former Catholic priest 
By l'vlARIBEL MOREY 
News \'Vriccr 
Sevr.ral hundred members of a doomsday cult in Uganda died in what appeared to be a mass murder. at the hand of its main leader, a for­mer Catholic priest named 
rnaction framework in
"The Catholic Church "This problem is a sign
Kibwetcerc. against soci­Uganda and 
After he cannot penetrate very e t y that the Church needs to bocome more 
was suspend­deeply [in Ugandan Muwunga revive itself Something is sPnsi!ivP to the ed from min­stressed the needs of the
society] because ofthe wrong with the system."
istry as a significance people, 
priest and totality ofservices desired. of th() dicta­Muwunga said. later expelled The gap is in what is torial regime Charles Muwunga "This problem from the and the is a sign that
available {in the Church/ Kroc Institute scholar
Catholic rigidity of 
Church for his and what's wanted." the Catholic: radical Church in Uganda. b e 1 i c f s , There are two aspects
Patrick Gaffney 

Ki bweteere of a church. "the Church
anthropology professor

began his cult. as an institution and 
T h e 
Movemt>nt for thr. liestoration of the Ten Com­mandments. 
Although this sect is radical, he had followers. 
"At the beginning, there were a few priests and nuns who followed him," said Father Patrick Gaffney, who spent two years teaching social sci­ence in Uganda and is chair of anthropology and associate professor at the Kroc Institute. 
After the radical side of Kibweteere's ministry surfaced, manv followers left the movement, bu·t many stayed. 
"These are the responses of the bulk of followers in search of mean­ing, solidarity and what religion offers -guidance in a predatorial society," Gaffney said. 'The Catholic Church cannot penetrate very deeply [in Ugandan society] because of the totality of the sPrvices desired. The gap is in what is available [in the Church] and what's wanted," Gaffney said. 
So many Ugandans need the ser­vices available from the Church, but there are not enough resources to meet all the need, according to Ga!Tney. In a religious sect, people's needs can also be sr,rved. 
"(Kibweteere] began schools, clinics and gave free education. llis approach was a more realistic answer to their needs," said Charles Muwunga, a Kroc Scholar from Kampala, Uganda. 
Although Gaffney said that the Church could not have reached so many people, Muwunga said the Catholic Church is part of the prob­lem. 
"When the priest [KibwPtcercJ was discovered, the Catholic Church decided to dismiss him. This is not the solution." Muwunga said. "The Church should have taken the time to understand fKibwetecrc]." 
Tlw cult offered Ugandans educa­tion, nconomic secmity and a sense of community, experl'l said. 
"\!\'hen peoplP are very poor and lack needs, religious groups release the economic strain as the group receiv1~s money from the West," \1uwunga said. Christians in England and the United States support some of these groups or churches, he added. 
When people belong to a smaller group, they are able to express them­selves freely without the hierarchical aspect of mainstream churches and a dictatorial regime. 
"With a political movement system, people do not have the avenues of dis­placing their views," said Muwunga. 
While Gaffney predicted this cata­
strophe as a 
"Lots of gov<'rnment officials are not examples of lrnman virtue. llow do we not know if they are going to take over religious institutions?" Ga!Tm~y qw1stioned. 
The economic issues cannot be altered quickly, but the religious and governmental dilemmas should be addressed, according to Muwunga. 
"The Church should learn that dis­missing priests that have made mis­takes is not the solution," said Muwunga. "Look at the implications bryond the actions." 
The Church should stay away from 
lhe hierarchical 

Church as a people of 
God. the ordinary Christian," Muwunga said. "The gap between the two [aspects of the Church] is very evident-too wide." 
Finding reasons for Kibweteere's appeal to hundreds of Ugandans, Gaffney and Muwunga believe that religion is extremely powerful. 
"This is the power of ideology. The power of religious ideology is one of the best ways of mobilizing people," Muwunga said. 
"Distortion of religion can manipu­late people like ourselves," Gaffney said. 
Although Kibweteere's sect may have been the result of political, eco­nomic and religious factors within Uganda, the mass deaths of sPct fol­lowers has occurred in the linited States as well. 
"These arc not strange phenonrn­non in the United States. These arc verv familiar phenomenon to us if we'~e willing to look at out own social 
Rice: Push pro­life agenda to general public 
By MIKE de la ROSA 
News Writer 
Because tlrn Suprome Court will not outlaw abortion. activists must change public opinion to a pro-lil'e stance, said law professor Charles Hice at this wnckend's Collegiate l'ro­Lifo Leadership Confer­encc. 
"The Supreme Court is unanimous, and overturn­ing Roe v. Wade is not one vote away. The objective is to honestly change minds and !marts," said Hice in his lecture, "Law, Politics and thn Bight to Lifo." 
Rice spoke on the c:thical nuances of' ahortion and euthanasia. Ile not.Pd that a doctor could pre­scribe drugs to prolong a patient's lire. A problem arises. hownver, bocausp thorn is no way to monitor whethor treatment is given for.bmwficial or suicidal purpos11s, Im said. 
"Both abortion and euthanasia am moving beyond the law in that llw law cannot doU•r­mine what the intnnt or the doctor is," Hice said. 
Rice said abortion, as a whole, is wrong, regardless of regulation. 
"Intrinsically abortion is like lining up a school-age child against a wall and shooting her," he said. "B.egulating abortion by saying you can't do this without your parnnts' per­mission makes abortion <~quivalent to getting your ears pierced." 
Rice has led or advised numerous pro-lil'e organizations around llw country, including the Free Speech Advocates or Catholics United for Lifn. 



settings," said Gaffney. .-----------------------------------------­
With the knowledge that this was a distorted group, governmental involvement in rnligious activities is now in question. 
"My suspicion is that the government will probably have more interest in these groups," Gaffney said. "The problem is that most of these groups arc more ben­elicial, except for this per­verse group." 
The government should be more involved with reli­gious groups, Muwunga said. "The government mechanism that overlooks the activities of these orga­nizations need to be con­scious of the issue of reli­gious fundamentalism." 
Ilowever, Muwunga and Gaffney hold the same foar that the govPrnment will use this occasion to over­power the Church in Uganda. 
tlw Church 
needs to revive itsnlf. Something is wrong with the systPrn. l'coplc arc leaving to !join] nHiri> of these P1rntecostal churches. Why'?" Muwunga questioned. 
Instead ol' changing the Church's structure, Gaffncy places this issue on an international level. 
"This is a phcnom(:11011 that we don't understand al home and we'll have a dinicult timP understanding it abroad," Gaffney said. 
Muwunga and Gaffney bclicve the government should take a role to pre­vent such mass problems as lhe one in Uganda, but much of the problem lies within the government itself. 
"One of' the reasons it was not reported was because some of the government leaders were in the cult," said Gaffney. 
While Muwunga places more emphasis on the Church's need for change, Gaffney bnlievcs that the gov­ernment needs lo structure local gov­ernance more elfoctively. 130th, how­ever, fear that the government will use this occasion to control religious groups especially given the Catholic Church's in11unnce within tlrn coun­try. 

Attention Sophomores! Orders may now be placed for your class rings 

Orders may be placedfor your class ring beginning Monday, April 1Oth from 9:00a.m. to 10:00p.m_ 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
631-6316 
Open Monday through Saturday, 9am -1Opm Sunday, 11am -1Opm 

Monday, April, 10, 2000 Thf Ohsen•er . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
SMC alumnae board holds spring meeting 
By COUNTNEY BOYLE Nnu \Xlriu:-r 
Saint Marv's Alumnae /\ssociation's· Boarrl of Dirnctors f'ocusocl on h"w to stay in touch with f'ampus hap­pcn ings at its annual spring mPnling on campus last wenk­8IHi. 
In an nffort to make conta.,t with currenl students, rnem­hfJrs met and socialized with graduating seniors Thllrsday night at a reception at the Hirdinger Alumnae llonse. 
"Wo were pleased with the crowd. We had about ;;0 seniors th8re. The purpose is to network; we do this in the spring because people arc still intnrviewing !for jobsl and fto see] if there is anything [we] can do to help out," said board prrsident Deborah Johnson Schwieber. 
Board commitlnes, including th(' St. u d 11 n i A I um nae Conunittm~. Alumnae Resource Commitl.!w/Awards Committee and llw f\'i:ltworking Committee, met Friday and Saturday. 
"The Student /\lumnae Committee is focused on how we ran stay inl'ormed. We also had a stucll)nt leaders luncheon as a sort or year-in-review," Schwiebnr said. 
L'pdatPs wPre given by College president Marilou Fldrnd, Karen Ristau, vice prnsid1'nl and dean of faculty, and Patrick WhiLP. associate dean of facu lly. 
ThP board also di_scussed 
summer servicn projncts affili­ated with the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and Heunion 2000, which will be held on campus June 8 through 11. 
The Alumnae Association also established and voted on snveral awards Saturday after­noon. The Distinguished Alumna Award will go to a member of thr~ Saint Mary's community who has displayed outstanding service to the College and who participates in ongoing work for the Alumnae Association. 
ThP Alumna /\chievemtont Award will honor an alumna who has had significant per­sonal and professional accom­plishments and who has proved to be a leader in her profes­sional fidd. 
The Humanitas Award, estab­lished this year, will honor a woman with outstandi11g per­sonal and volunteer accom­plishments. 
The recipient also must exhihit concern for the inter­ests and welfare of her fellow human beings, have personal dedication, compassion, self­lessness and sacrifice through social action. 
To wrap up the day of meet­ings, the members elected new board officers. New leaders include C.C. Shaughnessy Nessinger, president, Kerry Long, vice president, and Julie Strazzabosco Graham, secre­tarv. Officials will serve a two­yectr term and which will take office after Reunion 2000 activ­ities. 
WantA Challenge? 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Fooo + Music --Fus1c 

Blustery winds didn't stop the men of Carroll Hall from mixing 
catered delicacies with rock melodies for fusic, a celebration of food and music held at Stepan Center Saturday afternoon. Hundreds packed the venue for Wolfie's subs (above) and tunes by campus band Doc Brown (right). The Vermin donated all proceeds from entrance tickets 
and food sales to the Make a Wish Foundation. 
photos by KEVIN DALUM 


Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force Officer Training School. There you will become a commissioned officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enjoy great pay, complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year, 
plus the opportunity to travel and 
AIM HIGH see the world. To discover how high AIR . a career in the Air Force can take -falCE"'--you, call 1-800-423-USAF, or visit our website at www.airforce.com
www.airforce.com 
TIMBERLAKE WERTENBAKER 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Wed., April 12, 7:30 p.m. Thurs., April 13, 7:30 p.m. Fri.,April 14, 7:30 p.m. Sat., April 15, 7:30 p.m. Sun., April 16, 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors $8 Ail Students $6 
TiGiiets a1eavailable ~t 
laFirtuni Stud!nt Certer Ticket Office 
MasterCa1d and Visa orders call 631·8128 
SMC to hold canned food drive 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Sodexho Marriot Food Services will host a food drive this week at Saint Mary's. All donations will go to the North Central Indiana Food Bank. 
Canned foods can be left at the Noble Family Dining Hall or The Crossings snack bar from April 9 through 15. Sodexho Marriot will match all food donations received. 
The food services organiza­tion will hold the drive in response to the problem of hunger in t\nrnrirn. According to Foodchain and Second 
The la and rnos !iterature1 fa beauty and internatl 
Learn fas~  Intensive tritlrn  
Fulfill the lang  
Qu:,IiJy tc,r Kell  
Contact:  Dq>.artrnent of  


Food Drive the past year. More than 25 percent of all 
. What: Canned food donations 
the food produced for human 

. Where: Noble Family Dining consumption is wasted each 
Hall, The Crossings 
. When: April 9 -15 
. Why: To benefit North Central 
Indiana Food Bank 
Harvest, two of the nation's leading hunger relief organi­zations, one in four children does not eat regular meals each day because of the lack of food in their homes. There has also been a 40 to 55 per­cent increase in requests for emergency food assistancr in 
me inkrnship in Brazil ice Languages 
year in America. roughly 96 billion pounds of food, accord­ing to the agencies. On aver­age, the working poor spend 60 percent of their monthly income on shelter, leaving lit­tle for utilities, food and health care. 
This is the second year of the Sodexho Marriot food drive at Saint Mary's. 
"We would like to get as many people involved as pos­sible," said Kelly Koschnick, human resources assistant for the organization. 
Please recycle The Observer. 
_______.., 

VIEWPOINT 
O
lHE page 8 BSERVER Monday, April 10, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
T/w ludq,r.,,d,nu, Dnily Ne,v,:pnprr Servi11g Notu lh11tu 11ndS11i1u M,11y'1 
P.O. Box Q. i'iorre O,me. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Darnc, IN 165~G 
EDITOR IN CJTTEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS .MANAGER  
Noreen Gilbpie  Tun Ldne  
ASST. .MANAGING EDITOR  OrERATI0NS l\1ANAGER  
Tim Logan  Brion Kessler  

1\1•:ws EDITOR: Anne M,uie Mattingly VIEW!'Olr-iT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS E1moR: Kerry Smuh SCENE EDITOR: .'\mnnda Green SAINT MARY'S F.DITOR: Mollv McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lang 
ADVERTISING MAAAGER: Pat Peters AD DESIGN MANAc;ER: Chis Avila SY.STEMS ADMINISTRATOR: C\1ikc Gunvilk WEB A[)MINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CO!'HROLU:R: liob 'Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuell.u 
CONTACT Us 
0Ff!CE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............63 l-7471 FAX....... ..... ......631-6927 ADVERTISING ........, .......................... 631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MA.'JAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.. .. ......... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ............................. 631-5313 NEWS............... ............................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS......... . ..................................... 631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE..... .................................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S. ................................... 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........ .. ........ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http:llohserve,:ndedu for daily updates of campus news, sports. features and opinion columns, as well as carroons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 

At the risk of throwing the you-know­what into the fan and causing one of those wars that rage in The Observer every so often, I would like to make the following three statements: 
I am Catholic. 
I believe in the use of capital pun­ishment. 
These are not mutually exclusive beliefs. 
Although Marlavna Soenn~ker's col­umn last Thursday was correct in that Jesus' gospel preaches forgive­ness and mercv, it did not comple,tely overturn the Old Testament themes of strict justice. 
For openers, how can God contradict God? How can God's New Testament Law abolish His Old Testament Law? It's illogical to think that God's perfec­tion could exist for thousands of years, and then Jesus, who is God, could say it was wrong and establish a new Law. Jesus came "not to destroy !the Old Law], but to fulfill [it] "(Matthew 5:17). 
The notion that capital punishment has no place in the New Testament is flat-out wrong. Jesus upheld the Old Testament decree that those,, ho vio­late the Fourth Commandment should be executed (Matthew 15:3-7). In the book of Revelations, the apostle John savs, "he who kills with the sword must be.killed with the sword" (13:10). 
Some might argue that verses such as that last one inspire vigilante justice. But Paul teaches that justice is to be dealt with by justly acting governing authorities: "f)o not avenge yourselves, but rather give placo to wrath; for it is written, 'Vengeance is Mine, 1will repay,' says the Lord ... Let every soul be subject to the gornruing authorities ... For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil ... For [the ruler I is God's minister to you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid; for he docs not bear the sword in vain; for he is God's minister. an avenger to execute wrath on him who practices evil" (Romans 12:19, 13:1-4). With these verses, Paul instructs us not to seek vengeance, but to "give place to wrath" to justly acting governments, "God's ministers." 

This still leaves room for individual forgiveness and mercy as preached by Jesus. In fact, when Jesus was on the cross, one or the criminals alongside him says that Im is receiving "the due reward of[his] deeds" (Luke 23:41). Jesus forgives him, "today you will be with me in Paradise" (23:43), but does not exonerate his crime or stop his exe­cution. Believers am called to f'orgivr); justly acting governments are called to punish. Both are following the Laws of God. 
The Scriptural trump card of those who oppose capital punishment is the story of the woman caught in adultery, found in John 8:3-11. The scribes and Pharisees bring the adulteress to Jesus, but instead of following the Mosaic Law which commanded she b1i stoned, he says, "Let he who is without sin cast the first stone." Death penalty opponents state that this is explicit proof that Jesus nr.gatcs the death penalty. 
However, some background informa­tion needs to be applied. The Romans had voided the Jews' authority to com­mit their own executions (John 18:31). This is why Jesus needed to be deliv­ered to Pilate, the Homan consul, in order to be executed. By delivoring the adulteress to Jesus, the scribes and Pharisees were "testing llim, that tlrny might have something of which to accus11 llim" (John 8:6). llad .Jesus allowed the execution, he would have lmen brought up on charges of' usurping the Homans' authority, and I !is storv would have 1mded there. So, as lie did many times, Jesus dcrnrly evaded the Pharisees' and scribes' trap: "Let Im who is without sin cast the first stone." Obviously, Jesus had tlrn ability to cast whatever stone lie pleased. That IIn did not is testamnnt tu I !is wisdom and mercy. God had forgiven adulterers beforn. King David committed adult1)ry and murder (2 Sam 11 ). but God for­gave him (Psalm 32:1-5). We as humans, however, are not in a position to forgive sins committed against oth­ers, since we are not God (Mark 2:7). 
The New Testament does not prohibit capital punishment by a guvnrnnrnntal authority, such as the United Statns or the state of Texas. llowever, it calls upon governments to judge rightly. Therefore, I applaud Illinois Governor George Hyan's dncision to call for a moratorium on executions to nnsun\ that those peopln sm1t1rnccd to dnath are truly guilty, so long as tl11\y an\ tnm­porary. 
Next time you son a statue of Blind .Justice in a courtroom (hopefully. you won't bo tho defondant), look very closnly. Tlrn side uf tlrn balance dedicat­ed to Justice hangs only slightly lownr than the side devoted to Mercy. The New Testanrnnt calls for both mercy and justice, but commands Urn pn•emi­nencn of the latter. 
Even with the death pnnalty, the American criminal justice systnm fol­lows through on thosn tnachings. 
Mike Marchand is w1 offcampus junior English major who is not ashamed to admit that he is driving ct red minivan to classes while his truck is on the disabled list. Ile would like to apologize lo former Obseruer columnist Sean Vinck for blatantly ripping off his column name to use as the headline of this column. Mike's column appears every other Monday and his e-mail address is Marchancl.3@nd.edu. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those r~{ the author and nol neces­sarily those rfThe Uhseruer. 

weather for up-ro-rhe minute forecasts 
advertise for policies and rates of print ads 
archives ro search for articles published after August 1999 movies/music for weekly student reviews 
online featureS for spe­cial G!mpus coverage 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors and sralf 

POLICIES 
The Obserwr is the independent, daily newspaper 
·published in print and online by rhe students ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of rhe ad min isrration ofei tber institution. The Observer reserves rhe right w refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent rhe opinion of che majority of rhe Editor in Chief Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presen{ the views ofche auchors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opiniom through letccr., is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed ,md must include contact infonn.irion. 
Q1mtim1s regarding Ohsen•er policies rhoulrl he direct· ed to Fdiror in ChiefMike Connolly. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 

E 
0 


E"
'! 
BUT YOU
0 
IT
.. 
@ 
BELIEVE
.. 
WON'T
.. ~ u 
E 
,, 
YOU WENT
~ 
WORK.
.. ~ 
t: 
l!
0 
TO COLLEGE,
~ 
= 
" 
...• 
RIGHT? 
"'
E 
$ 
\_
;;
0 

u :J 
t: 0 
g
Q) 

£! 
N 
0 
~ 
C 
i ~ 
0" 

r 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"By not coming forward (about rape}, you make yourself a victim forever." 
Kelly McGillis American actress 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday. April 10, 2000 013SERVER page 9 
Is this a 'Christian' university? 
If Notn! Dame is to serve thn nrnssage of tho Gospels it will need to undergo a radiral transformation. Trying to follow Jesus is radi­cal. So lwro is a radical agenda that will provoke-you to think and many of you 10 clisagn1i>. 
Op<'n admissions. Notre Dame should accept PVPrl/ studnnl who applies. Tfw City Lniversity Aaron ol' N!)W York has p1)rlrnps thP most Christian Kreider admissions policy of any university as it accepts ,iwryonc who applies. A high school diploma is Think. not npccissary. Did not Jesus invitc the poor, thP Question. chiltlrcn. Samaritans, prostitutes and women to Resisl. follow hir:n to the~ Kingdom'! Whv do we refuse students bPcausc they rlo not co.mo from a well­mlta:atod uppnr-middle class background? We need to open our doors to those who are victims of the er.onomic inequality inherent in our capitalist ornnomy. 
Sliding-scaln tuition. Frnezing tuition al more than $20,000 is nei­tlwr radical nor ll('CPptablP for a school that wants non-rich stu­dPnts. Clli111utcly, Luition should be free, and by using fi,t1 percent or our ontlownwnt nach year f$100 million) and slopping to erect llrnse sPnsPIPss $20 mill.ion builctings ·we could almost afl'orrl to do so. B11t if Uml µroves impo~sible, tuition should be made propor­tional to family income. ll could be set between five and 10 percent of a family's inconrn. Princeton rncentlv made tuition free for stu­dPnts with a family income below $30,000. We need to open our doors to tlw poor. 
Hacial diversity. In 1988, llrn University committed to be six per­rent Latino. six pcn-cnt African American and one percent Native ,\nwrican by 1992. C:urrnntly we arP belo,v four percent African American and around 0.7 percent '.\fative American. And since 40 1){'rcent of Catholics arP Latino and Notre Dame is 85 percent Catholic, we should be 34 percent Latino, not seven percent as it is now. vVn llf'(!d to opnn our doors to people of color. 
Shan•d govnrnanrn. The University should be governed by a body consisting of an equal number ol' students, staff (including faculty, staff and administrators) and community members (including the Church, alumni and possibly Indiana residents). Board members should bn docted on a one-person one-vote basis. Currently less than onfl pArcnnt of' the Notrn Dame community (The administra­tion. including vict'-prnsidnnts, tlrn president and the trustees) con­trols all significant dflcisions. Too often they have dictatorially over­ruled the dncision of tlrn overwhelming majority of both the well­inf'ornwd students and faculty. For instance, last year the majority ol' studc•nts and faculty supportCTd including sexual orientation in our school's non-discrimination clause. llowever. the Fellows voted it down 12-0. Students are responsible, when empowered to make dc\cisions. W!• ,wed to open our governance to everyone. 
T1\ach pnac<~. justice and servicC'. Why does '.\fotrc Dame rank the business school by how much it boosts the average salary of incom­ing students? Why are wn training hundreds of students to join the military and light unquPstioningly in unjust wars? Why do we focus nn t1mching skills lo make our graduates top-notch candidates for high-paying corporate jobs when there is so much injustice (pover­ty. racism, sr:xism and r:nvironrnental destruction) in this world? 
Spurn Pliws. Notre Dame• has prostituted itself to a rich elite. Just look at tlrn many CEOs who give our school millions of dollars, such as Dt)bartolo who gaV<' $39 million in 1989 and the Mendozas who just gave $:~Ii million. In return, thPy arc appointed trustees, have buildings named in their honor and can rest assurnd that Notre Dame i·ill continue to promote their conservative values. A school that supports a prophetic "privileged option for the poor" cannot cxpnct funding from the rich, corporations and the military. !\or should it risk the compromising of our values that corporate spon­sorship cnlails. We should prepare ourselves for a total break. 
My undergradllate friends are over-burdened with exams and papers. When I ask them to help fight sweatshops or come with me to an activist confnrence, they often ~annot spare the time. My graduatn studcmt frinnds an1 caught up in their own specialized fields and worrying about publishing or perishing. We need to burst tlw Notrn Danw bubble. Exams and grades must not come before rrnsuring a connection bntween our lives and studies and the "real world." We should USP mlucation to broaden, rather than narrow our minds. 
If llwse poli1'.i,1s nwsc mom students to apply than Notre Dame can handle. I suggr.st that the most fair and loving admissions sys­tnm would randomly sPleet studrmts who mr.et whatf'vnr admission standards might be nccpssary for reasons of class and racial diver­sitv. 
c':learly. I have left many issues unaddrossed..\ Christi.an univer­sity cannot rnquirn si11gln-sex dormitories, use sweatshop labor. rlisr1·iminatP against gays, lesbians and bisexuals, be run hy white 1rn:n. or pay housokeep1)rS, cafeteria workers, groundskeepers and ;idjunct fac:ulty so much less than full profossors and top adminis­trators. But by addrnssing the roots of structural injusticn, by chal­lenging tlrn powi,rl'ul interests who eontrol this universitv and replltr·ing thpm \"-ith a diverse dAmocratic majority, Notr·e Dame could educate studnnts to work for justice, serving tho Church and thn world. · 
On ,\pril 16, Aarn11 expects lo be arresled in !J.C. for trying lo shut clmt'n a mcPling of the World Bank and lnlPrnational Monetary Fune!. Jlis column appears every other ."vfonday. 
The l'iews expressed in !his column are those of the author and nol nPcessarily tho:,;e ofThe Ohserver. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Try to imagine yourselves in this situation. You are relaxing on a weekend night, socializ­ing with friends and drinking far too much to be cognitively coherent. At some point in the evening, you find yourself alone with one of your friends and, before you realize it. things get physical. Although you have not actually consented to it, you find yourself unable to stop what is happening to you. You awake the next morning and realize you have engaged in nonconsentual intercourse with a friend and are left to deal with the consequences of what has taken place. Not an entirely unfamiliar story, I'm sure. 
Sadly, I think that many of us have encoun­tered situations like this at some point during our time at Notre Dame. And yet, it was not until I reported my recent experience with acquaintance-rape that this issue started being openly discussed in The Observer and across campus. 
!\one of us want to think of ourselves as being vulnerable, unable to control ourselves or Pasily victimized. We lock our car doors to prevent automobile theft and we try not to leave our books and electronics unattended when we venture to the basement of the librarv to buv a Coke. When it comes to our friends. however, we rarely protect ourselves against personal victimization. We do not look at our friends as being possible perpetrators of rape. When we are having fun at parties and we lose track of the time, we rarely stop the festivities to look for that one friend we haven't seen in a couple of hours. We never think that something might be happening behind a closed door that we had the power to prevent. ;\low, from my own personal expe­rience, I can see that we have a difficult time applying the label of "rape" at all to situations in which friends are involved -to situations in which friends take advantage of us. 
My personal experience of victimization has left me questioning a number of things, What could l have done or said differentlv? What if I hadn't had so much to drink9 Wh~t if my friends and I bud made more of' an effort to keep track of ear.h other pcriodir.ally through­out Urn night9 There arc so many wrtys in which hindsight is 20/20. But that does not help us to deal with the emotions which well­up after we arc forced to admit that some­thing like rape has occurrct..l. 
l have n'lad over my peers' cnmmPnts, :i.s well as the faculty and administraLion remarks, that have been recPnt.ly published in The Observer in response to my report. I wanuid to takA this opportunity to thank all of yon for writing and stimulating sur.h an intense discussion. However, I'd also like to ask a favor from you now. Lel's stop talking about MY story. The larger issue is that rape can affect anyone, including you. Perhaps that is something which noeds to be discussed. 
As was mnntioned in Monday's article, I have deL:ided not tu µrcss legal charges against my perpetrator. Por me, it has been more empowering to confront him about what he did to me and about the severity of this issue than it would have been to have him expelled or punished at the federal level. That was my decision. It was the right deci­sion for me. Jt may not be the right decision for somebody else, but you should all know that Notre Dame offers a wealth of resources that you can call upon for help if you find yourselves similarly victimized. I have received help from Notre Dame's Counselling Services, as well as from Sex Offense Services and the l\otre Dame Police Department. There is, however. other help available. If you feel that you have been raped, or even if you feel you might have victimized someone else, please seek whatever type of help you feel would be most beneficial for you. 
I can honestly say that I was a bit shocked on Monday when I saw the front page of The Observer and knew that my story was out. Part of the reason I have decided not to press charges is because I did not want to make a public issue out of my very private experi­ence. I hope that I am not opening the floor for any unnecessary speculation or accusation when I tell you that I am a senior this year. I am close to completing my final semester as a student at Notre Dame, and I did not want this last month and a half to be interspersed with any further interrogation. I want to enjoy the time I have left here with mv friends, and I want to enjoy my Senior Week· anct gradua­tion with family and loved ones without hav­ing to be constantly reminded about this unfortunate occurrence. My perpetrator and I have recently discussed this incident, and have, I feel, finally been able to close the door on it. We are both considering receiving coun­selling therapy to help us through this difficult time. I speak for both of us now when I sav that we'd really like to learn something from this and move on. 
I am glad that one good thing did come from this whole situation: it triggered a very candid discussion of rape at Notre Dame. It is. however, unfortunate that my report was the reason this discussion was ignited. We need to learn tu speak about the prevalence of rape beforn it gPts to this point. Wr: need more informational meetings and peer advising on this topic. We need to become more aware that rape happens, and it doesn't have to be violent or involve a total stranger to be recog­nized as a violation. We need lo take more personal responsibility for ourselves, while we continue lo look out for one another. And we should NEVER think for one second that this can't happen to us. 
Thank you again for all of your support and advice. I hope that the students. faculty and administration of Notre Dame will continue to speak so openly about issues of importancA such as rape. Rut please rnspect my privacy and my emotional well-being by now putting the discussion of my personal victimization to rest. 
Anonymous April S. 2000 



page 10 Monday, April l 0, 2000 
Where the men of mod quad reside 
Knott Hall Juggs are building identity through vibrant orange 
Siegfried Ramblers' spirit of community helps unite the dorm 

By BRIAN H>RD 
S(enc Writer 
l\:icknamed tlw Juggs, the men of Knott Hall reside in a smalier sized L shapfld dorm hiddPn behinrl Touchdown Jesus on the north side of campus. Knott men are known for their athleticism, vvinnirrg sud1 intnr-hall Pvents as foot­ball. soccer, bench press and b-tcaguc basketball. Tlrny also placed second in 110rkPy. ThPy lovp tlrnir sports but pride thc,msPlvPs Oil being gientlcmcn (or something to that extent). 
lla\·ing lwrn a m:ilf' dorm for only three vears, Knott still searches for an identity. Prior to that the residents liver! in Flanner liall but due to oxcossivt? partying, that building is no lunger a dorm. 
t\lost residents agree that orange, Knott's hall color. embodies the dorm's spirit. \\ ht>n talking about Knolt's intensP prPsPnce at pPp rallies, fresh­man Bn Rottnrborn said, "Orange sym­bolizes tlrn craziness we have." 
Brian Polowski. a sophomore who helped at freshman orientation, described the uniqueness of orange as a wav for the men of Knott to stand out. "W.hen all of the freshman Juggs went out to the Stepan courts during thie graf­l'iti dance. it was great to watch them stand out amongst the rest because of the orange beanies that they wore. I ,was proud to be a part of this dorm," Polowski said. 
Recently Knott Hall created an event known as the Flanner Cup to strengthen its identity. For this weeklong battle, Knott competes against neighbor Siegfried in a series of challenges. including cart pulling, hot dog eating and arm wrestling between the hall rec-
ByTIMLOGAN 
Scene \XIricer 
Three vears ago, Siegfried was a girl's dor~1. 
It had 246 fornale residents, a secu­rity guard and pink tiles in the bath­rooms. 
But when Flanner Hall closed and was converted into facultv offices, the female residents of Si~gfried and neighboring Knott Hall were sent to West Quad and the Flannerites moved in. 
Siegfried still has the pink tiles of old, but the dorm has spent the last three years forging a new idenlily and 
tors. This year. Pote Husin hclpr:d lead Knott to victory by r:ating so many hot dogs that he vomited. .Joe Mucllnr exemplitil•d thP Jugg pri<fo amidst tl1is victory sa.ying, "Even though we hayc a brr,thnrl_v love for Siegfried, iL should be made clear tlrn l thr:y are t!rn lit.tin brnther -as is mi<ler~t in them losing to us." 
l'erhaps nnn of tlw grpatesl p«rl.s of Knott is Brother "Bro Jo" .lcr,Hnc, tlw hall's rector. Di,scrihed by rnsidnnts as "spiritually supportive" imrf "fun lov­ing," Im alwa}S brings tirwrgy to tlrn Juggs. Bro1her is known for keeping the Knott men informed as to what is happ1rning 011 campus and aruund tlin dorm. Freshman Jpff 1-la.ltruzak said. "One time he told us soda was on sah: for a. dollar nineteen at Marlins.'' Brother dPfilliti,ly looks oul for thP Knott me11. 
A former residPnl who has become famous amongst tlrn Juggs in their short historv is .John Dunham. Senior Mike Morales, an HA known for his jovial nature, described the time Dunham had a little too much to drink at a local bar. "When he came back from the bar, he threw out all of the furniture from the third floor study lounge." The next morning Mike "awoke to the cops linger printing the lounge." John, who no longer resides in tlrn dorm because of this, definitely went above and beyond the call of duty in the spirit department on that particu­lar night. 
In spite of all that is great about thi, dorm, there are some complaints, One in particular is that it is on the edge of campus. Dave Baroni said, "I lovn South Dining Hall but it is too far of a walk so I normally end up eating at North. North is not nearly as good, though." Many 
building new traditions, working to create a community inside the walls of this building. And that community has been formed, with hall events gradual­ly growing and tlrn dorm making its presence known on campus to increas­ing degrees. 
Events like the just-completed Scrambler Week, which included a Stonehnnge concert, a golf outing and a dance, raisml hundreds of dollars for thn Conor Murphy Bone Marrow Fund and brought the dorm together. 
But it is the spirit of community found in each or the dorm's six snc­tions that truly unites the residents. 
"Everyone always has their doors open." said junior Tony Bondi. "It is a welcoming placP." 
The community that has been built in the dorm ovnr tlw past thrno yours iS nV id n n 1 i11 t h n h igh n ti m b () r o (' juniors who am staying to livo their s1rnior year in Urn dorm, Noxt yoar, 41 members of Sicgfri<'d's first male freshman class will bo tlrn first group of men to live in the hall for four years. · The building ilselr is one or the morn comfortahlP on cllrnpus. Built in 1988, it has full air con<liLioning and laundry facilities. Every f'loor has cable tolovi­sion in the loungns, in which many frif111<lships am /'ornrnd during "SportsCPntPr " · 
J\thleLics in general arc a uniting factor in Siegfried. l{esidnnts have madn their prosencc l'elt on the inter­hall athletic fields all year. Accomplishments have included a sec­ond place regular season finish in 
JOE STARK/The Observer Knott Hall Juggs play Frisbee on the quad. Though far out on the North end of campus, the men are a strong part of the Notre Dame community. 
Juggs agreed that it is hard to live on the edg11 of campus, yet they still are happy with their dorm. Marty Smytlrn made this clear wlrnn he said, "There is no other dorm I would rather live in," pointing out the big rooms and tlrn fun peop!P. 
Knott llall is a young dorm coming into its own idc1ntity with the lrnlp of the residents. These men are a: dynamic group who know how lo kick it. just likP former rnsident Jim Sanson. 
football, second place in the playoffs in icP hockey and a championship in intorhall bowling. Siegfried's team also won the fall interhall baskntball tournament and knocked off Matt Doherty's team of basketball coaclws at Midnight Madness in October. 
The Hamblnrs' rivalry with neighbor­ing Knott llall livns on in thn Flann11r Cup, a serins of athletic compntitions and feats of strnnglh for bragging rights lrntwnen the two dorms. 
While Knott may occasionally win the cup, they have never been able to rn atch Siegfried i n one are a. T Im Hamblers have campus' only intcrhall marching band, a gaggle of Notro Dame band mnmbers and other musi­cians who try to insplrn tlrn dorm's football team to victory nach Sunday ol' th1, intorhall season. Tile lrnnd was foundorl during thP strntch run of tlw 1998 season and played at every game this year, helping the Hamblors reach tho second round of the playoffs for tho f'irst time. 
Community is built in othnr ways in Sic!gl'ried, through the wnll-uttendc\cl dorm Mass oach Sunday, through the traditional run around campus the morning of' the first football gamn and through thn many section CV<'nts each month. 
With largn l'rnslrrnan and soµhomorn classns picking up wlwre this year's juniors havn lef't ofT, a 111:w gen11ration of Ramblers -onn that has nnvnr been asked "Isn't Siegfried a girls' dorm?" -will take the hall, and its growing sense of tradition and com­munity, into the future. 


Monday, April l0, 2000 page 11 
ET CETERA 

l'PoplP fo1· tlw lithical lrPatnrnnt or Animals (l'fffAI rnrnntly claimnd lhat CO\NS ,ir,, misLruated during tlw milking prorPss. PET/\ has att,~mpl­Prl to draw atlPntion to this issue by rlairning that otlwr drinks lik<' ht>1•r an· actually lwtlt!r for you_ lhan rnilk_.ln thnir adverlising campaign, PET,\ parodied the National Fluid Milk Processor l'romnUon Board's "Got Milk?" slogan. rl'placing the word ''milk" 1.-vith "bc•m." ColkgP students hav(' been waiting for Lhis their 1•nlir1~ lives. SonwonP is actually trying to convincn them to drink morP h(•()r. 
1\ccording to PETA. in addition to being loaded with fat and rholes­l1H·ol. dairy products are frequently contaminated with pesticides and drugs, and they arc linked to dia­bntes. heart disease and certain cancprs. Also. "dairy cows" today am trnatNl like milk machines. Tlrny am continually impregnated to knPp thnm lactating so farmers may takP Uwir milk. Trying to save 



-,-\11/)UI .I.I) I )IJ/.c/11 /Joo/, Si(/llill(J <11 id rlisn ,ssio11 dr rl w rfk C:e/JIC'r_ 
,-,'/() /J,IJl_ 
Friday 
-·-rm,s ell ;lw snire_ c;:4_, rn1tl f>.4:, 
I) 111. -S:l (I(/]) JissinJ I 
-Tl J(' U )(I('< ,r II IC ,'ii;1/ ltil )(J(I/('" or \\'<1sl1i1KJ/r>11 r /(1/f. 7:3(J Jun 
---1io;11n(!'' in JOJ DcUc,rrolo_ 8 p_m_ (Ill( f I U:3n JJ_ 11 J. --S2 uc/111i.ssiu1J 
TECH COLUMN 

Console or computer? 
time and rnonHy. farmers often cause cuts, injurir.s and electric shocks to cows' udders. 
"Knowing how rows suffer in tlrn dairy industry is enough to make anyone lactose intolerant," says PETA president Ingrid l'\r,wkirk 
This is an internsting argument bv PET/\, but when was the last tirno someone was seen "binge" drinking milk? Or has one ever seen someone pulled over for dri­ving under the influence of milk? 
Many anti-alcohol groups have picked up on this theme and dis­agree with PETA's rather irrespon­sible stance. MADD (1Vlothers Against Drunk Driving) and SADD (Students Against Drunk Driving} are outraged at the publicity of a polcntially dangerous substance. 
Unfortunately for PETA. most col­lege students side with MADD and SADD. According to a Memo link .com survey, nearly all of those surveyed believe drinking beer is less responsible than drink­ing milk, suggesting that most respondents do not accept the posi­tion of PETA_ Even though the argument presented by PETA seems to have fallen on its face, one must admire the creative attempt to protect the welfare of animals. So, the next time someone is funneling some milk, think about the cows. 
~ls something Iwppening
ti ,ur SU'I w doesn t knocu olJout? \Yant it to appeor in our weekly calenclor? 
E-nwil us at Sce1w@11cl.edi1 
;Satu.rday-
In the past few months, the batUe over where \ideo games arc played has become a heated one. The gaming world has seen a rise in competition between the rise in games for the computer and the anticipation of some new gaming ronsoles that are corning lo I.he market. Until the recPnt {'Xplosion of computer sales, the rlebate on whctl1P:r or not to purchase computer games or tlm traditional gam­ing console was pret­ty much a non-issue. 
11owever. with more and more households purchas­ing a P-ornpntnr or mulliplc computers. the computer gaming world is expanrling into the traditional games once reserved only for the gaming consoles from Nintendo and Sony_ With this explosion, the converse has happened as well, with the big sellers from the pc crossing over to the gaming console. With tnis crisscrossing of games between the platforms and the computers, the battle over which v1.-ill reign supreme is going to be a good one. 
The leading front runners will be the Sony PlayStation II. due out in the fall of this year, the Sega Dreamcast already available, the Nintendo Dolphin due late next year and the X-Box from Microsoft, which is a computer based gaming system due out next year. Most of these have already caused a lot of fanfare, but the real story is over who "'ill come out on top. The specifics on the game systems are listed below: 
POLYGON POWER 
X-Box: 100+ million polygons per sec­ond PlayStation II: Around 20 million poly­gons per second 
Project Dolphin: "As fast as our friends at Sony have." said Nintendo Chairman Howard Lincoln. 
Dreamcast: Around three million poly­gons per second Nintendo 64: Around 150,000 polygons per second 

~ ''Tl JC Louc o( lhc Niohrinol1k"' CH \\'o.s/1,noron I Jal/_ 7:30 ru11_ 
~IS,\ him Festh 1u/ ill Molll(JO/l wry Theutr<'. U.1Forrune. 8 1un 
-Norrc Dome Sci wlu tvtusicorum 111 rlw Busilicu_ n:.10 p_,n_ 

-S,\fC 1\lwrn iu 1\r/rionu Tri<Jiuni /Juok tu//-; u, id sioninn ut Ilic I IU<J<Jc1r Center_ Soint 1\wrus c:umpus. 2 p_rn 
-·T/ w lDl'C uf-tlw r,•i~.;I Hinoulc" 01 \ l'asllinu1on I Juli. 7·:wp.m_ 
-co,11<'</tJ sponz in LuForrunc l3o!lroom, 8 /un -83 odmissio11 
-·ooomn" in Io1 neBor1nlo_ 8 P-m_ oncl 10:.10 1un -$2 uclm1ssion 
PlayStation: Around 360,000 polygons per second Gacks comparable effects) 
MAIN CLOCK SPEED 
X-Box: hOO Milz 
PlavStation II: 300 Mifz 
Project Dolphin: 400 MHz 
Dreamcast: 200 MHz 
Nintendo 64: 93.75 MHz 
l'layStation: 33.86 MHz 

MEMORY 
X-Box: 64 MB 
PlayStation II: 32MB 
Project Dolphin: Uminnounc<id 
Dreamcast: 16!\113 
'.\lintendo 64: 4'.\11.B 
PiayStation: 2!\18 

With the specifics outlined above, it would appear that the X-Box is poised to take t\rn gaming world by storm. However, Microsoft is neglecting one thing -time. The X-Box is not scheduled to arrive until tho foilm~ing year. and with the way Microsoft promises. I would look to see it in 2002_ 
Also, the trend in home appliances now is to incorporate all-in-one devices where the consumer can get more than one ser­vice out of them. The only company to really embrace that is Sony. The PlayStation is really a revolutionary sys­tem in gaming. Regardless of the upgrades to the polygons rendered which helps sharpen the picture, Sony has incor­porated a DVD player and many other features that can make it even more than a gaming system. 
The question over which console will reign supreme is a difficult one, but I am betting on the PlayStation II being a formi­dable competitor. The most appealing fea­ture to me is the inclusion of backward compatibility with the old PlayStation games, so tl1at the purchasers of the new system do not have to throw out their old games. With such fierce competition, the consumer will be the eventual decider ­but I would look for a huge increase in the production of computer games and con­sole games to be eminent. 
However, when the PlayStation II is released in the fall of this year. my $300 will go toward its purchase. before I buy into the fanfare of these other systems. 
-''Tlie LOL1e o/ 11w Ni()}J1//l(JUI<'" rn \ l'oshi11oron I lnlf. 7.-.1r J p m 
-1\COl ISfiC:Clf<' ill /,(IF/)r/l//l('_ 9-J :Z /Ull 
-"Doqmn" in Io J !JC'/ irn!nlo. J();3() J),J)J_ -$2 Uc//lliSSiOll 

-Notre Dome .luzz Born1 presents "lJinwn::;ions in Jozz" in 1/w Bw 1<1 /Jltilcl111<], :i p.JJJ. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April l 0, 2000 
PGA 
Singh rises to occasion, wins the Masters at Augusta 
. Journey to topbattled poverty,suspensions 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA. Ga. 

Tbe last leg of Vijay Singh's improbable journey was 11,n uphill climb to the 18th green at Augusta i\iationaL That was the easy p11.rt 
The Fiji nati,e had toiled in the jungle. pounding balls in stifling hrat and wondering where it all might lead. Ile found out Sunday whPn hfl slipped the green jarknt over his broad shoulders. 
"It was a ,;;truggle, but it was a peaceful struggle," Singh said after winning the Masters. "I would n0ver swap that for now. 
Singh beat back the biggest stars in golf to rlaim its most prestigious prize. He stared down a challenge from David Duval. ignored an early charge by Tiger Woods. and calmly hi>ld off 
the easiest hole at Augusta. Duval h11,d a 70 and finished third along with Lorrn Robrrts. 
Wonds, trying to pull off the greatest :16-ho!r comeback in Masters history, got within three of the lead but played even-par on the back and fin­ished fifth. six strokes back. 
"l was so focusr.d on what l was doing," Singh said. "It nwant a lot."' 
And it showrd when last vrar's winnH, Jose Maria Olazabal. helped him sliµ into the coveted green jacket. 
"It feds great.'' a beaming Singh said. 
Singh playrid tours on five contlnrnts and was banned from two of thBrn, one because of nllegations that he doctored his scorecard to miss the rut. lie has long denied the r,harge. but it has haunted him throughout his career. 
lie took a job as a teaching pro in Borneo. living in a one­be<lro om apartment as he slowly workPd his way back Loward the only career he evn wanted. 
"I don ·t 
Ernie Els at think anyonethe end. His "Winning this one gives should be 3-under 69 surprised that
me confidence that I can 
gave him a Vi.iay Singh
three-stroke win a lot more. " 
won this golf' victory and tournanrnnt," 
his second 
Vijay Singh Duval said. major cham­"He's a vvon­
Masters' champion

pionship. derful play-
S i n g h rolled in an 18-foot birdie putt on the last hole. kissed the ball as he removed it from the cup and embrar.ed his familv. His 9­year-old son, Qass, ha·d taped a message to his bag that said, "Papa, Trust Your Swing!" 
He did, following those direc­tions better than anyone else. 
"\,Vinning this one gives me confidence that I can win a lot more." Singh said. 
He now has won t,,·o of the last six major championships, whkh validates him as one of the game's top players. 
Singh finished at 278 and earned $828,000 for his eighth career virtory. 
Els. a two-time U.S. Open champion. couldn't get a birdie putt to fall on the last three holes and was at 281. 
The biggest threat came from Duval. in contention on the bark nine Sunday at Augusta for the third straight year. His dreams died with a riskv shot that wound up in Rae's ·creek for a bogey on the par-5 13th. 
er.,. He proved it on the back nine at Augusta. where so manv Masters are decided. For Singh, Sunday morning was just as critical as Sunday afternoon. With frost melting into dew. he returned to the r,ourse to complete his third round and made two critkal par putts that enabled him to maintain his three-stroke cushion over Duval. That paid dividends later in the day. when Singh managed to escape danger twice without losing his lead. Clinging to a two-stroke lead over Duval. Singh hit his approach into the pond left ol' the 11th green. He was able to drop close to the green, hit a delicate chip to 4 feet. and dropped only one shot by mak­ing the putt. Then on the par-3 12th. he hit over the green into the most daunting bunker at Augusta. Far,ed with a shot that sloped down the green toward more trouble. he blasted out to 2 feet 
-the same shot Olazabal pulled off to win last year. 
DuYal, who lives near Singh in Pontt~ Vedra Boach. Fla., was still poised to win his f.irst major championship until a mistake on the 13th. 
''I played perfectly well enough Lo win thr golf tourna­ment," Duval said. but, "tho day did not turn out likr f wanted." 
Ditto for Els. the 30-year-old South African who got word Saturday that his buddy had won a $.2 millio11 lottnr~ and thought it might be a·good omen. 
"I felt like I was going to win the tournamcmt wlrnn I stepped on the first tee," Els said. "I was rrally trying to push too hard." 
Woods, an ovArwlrnlming favorite at tho start of the week, wound up missing k,~y shots on the par 5s. lfo still needs five more green jackets to r:atcb Jack Nieklaus. 
"I knew going into this weflk !.hat every time I play, Lhis game is very fickle," Woods said. "EY<~n though I didn't get off to a good sLart Thursday. I gave myself a ch.ance. I got bar.k into the tournament and had a chance on Sunday." 
Woods, who opened with a. 7 5 and was nine strokfls back after two days. got the deficit down to three strokrs earlv and seemed pois!'d to pounce.· 
Singh was in the fairway. waiting for the group ahead to tee off on No. 4, when he glanr.!'d up at the large white leaderboard in time to see another birdie posted for Woods. Singh pror,reded to hit long and three-putt from 50 feet off the fringe. 
Woods went out in 33. lie was 4 under for the tourna­ment and slowly gaining momentum for the kind of bark-nine charge that have bewme so famous at Augusta. 
But Singh's biggest thrnat was Duval. Ile made a couple of 8-foot putts early to close a three-stroke derieit to one. then really began to apply the pressure with birdie putts from 12 feet on No. 6. a good pitch to 2 feet on the par-5 eighth, and a sliding 6-footer on No. 9. 
\\'hat did that get him'! Nothing. 
Singh matched every birdie and answered every great approach by Duval with one of' his own -and took that slim lead to the back nine. 
Woods ran oul of chances. 

. Woods falls off pace in quest for second title 
Associated Press 
AUGUST/\, Ga. 

Tigcr Woods spent 20 min­
utrs working his way through 
/\men Corner on Sunday. lie 
didn't look up al the lciader­
board once. 
Thm1 again, he didn't really 
need to. 
By thr 
time he 
rear.hrd 
No. 11. he 
k n e w 
whcrn he 
stood. llr 
was nve 
strokes oil' 
the lead 
and need­
ed morr than a r,ouragnous 
r,harge lo win another 
Masters. IIn rrnedrd rvervone 
elsn to completrly r,otlaps<< 
NAither happern~d. 
On a day in which he played well enough to get into con­t1~ntion earlv, but not well enough to muster a lrnroic run .at the leaders, Woods shot a 3­under-par 69. f le finished at 4 under for the tournament. in 
llfth place. 
That was six strokes behind 
champion Vijay Singh. who 
helped push Tiger's historic 
1997 victory a little further 
into the mr-mory banks. 
"J\t least I gave mysPlf' a 
chance after Thursday," 
Woods said, referring to the 
opening-round 75 that proved 
too big a delkil to overcome. 
"For some reason, thr golfing 
gods weren't looking down on 
me this week." 
It was more than the golfing 
gods. It was the course archi­
tects at Augusta National, too. 
They're the ones who br,gan 
a r,ampaign to Tiger-proof 
their layout after Woods blew 
through it in 1997. fle set the 
record with a 270 and had 
many people thinking that 
nobody would ever beat him 
here. 
Since then, some holes have 
been lengthened. The fairways 
have been tightened by a new 
cut of rough and somo of' the 
greens have been recontoured. 
Woods went 10 rounds after 
his title without breaking 70. 
Ile shot 68-69 over the week­
end to finally break that spfdl, 
but conr,eded that the Mast.ors 

has changed. 
"No rioubt about it." he said. "It's a tough test now. I'm not saying it wasn't tough back 
• ilrnn. !3ut it's tougher now because obviously you 'vc got to drive the ball bettrr and you've still got to bc tough with the irons." 
llis iron play was good enough -he hit 71 pPrc<'nl of' the grrcns over the tourna­ment -and naturally. Woods 
thought vir,tory was  possiblr  
until the end.  
But  tlrnre  were  no  f'ist  

pumps, uppercuts or smilns. Just a bcliiaguercd look. 1wn11 when things wc>nt right 
After a birdie on No. 15. lw plucked the ball out of' th<' ho!P with the vigor of a playrr who had just rnacfr doubl1· bog<\y. llis l'ar.e looked pained. 
Thnn. the rlincher·. llis foot flew out of' his barkswing on No. 16. He dangled his leg above the ground and watchrd hfllplessly as tho ball landed wnll left and in back or the green. He cndrd up with a bogey -an end to his c:hanc:es. but not his drParns. 
"II' f could sonwhow bin.Iii' 17 and 18. vou nPvnr know," he said. "Vijity still had to play ov1w some water on 15, and we had seen some prdty high numbrrs there." 
The birdies didn't come. Neither did the r,ollapse from Singh or anyone else. 
Thus. Woods failed to capi­talize on a sizzling start. f fp made his wav around the front nine in 3 under --his best ninr. holes of' the tournanwnt. lie birdied Nos. 2, 4. 7 and 8 and bogeyed No. 6. 
Ear.h time those birdies were posted on the scoreboard at /\men Corner, a roar rrom fans in that gallery erupted. a nnw red number bringing a bigger reaction than thn shots being played right in front of them. 
They exper,ted Woods to be on thn prowl when he finally got therr-. 
But bv the time he arrived. tbn ard.or had cooled -and not just among the fans. 
"I don't think he evnr got Lo within thren ol' me." Singh said. "! wasn't worried about that. f was just thinking about my own game." 
Singh had a five-stroke lead over Woods bv the timn Im fin­ished No. 12. ·and suddl'nly. tw was the toast of' Amen Corner. Only David Duval and Ernie Els were r,hallr,nging the leader by then. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.111. to 3 \,.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents pet character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  FULL COLOR Copying THE.COPY SHOP  Scanning  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT· ART EDUCATION ASST. For Snite Museum of Art  FileMaker Pro and design programs pre­ferred. but not necessary Call curator of education Shannon Masterson at 631-4435 tor more into  space and convenience $600/mo plus utilities. deposit 674-1670 APARTMENT FOR SUMMER SUB­ Like new, Man's 14K Yellow Gold 5 Diamond Wedding Band. Appraised $900. Best offer 2A9·8509  
THE COPY SHOP laFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thurs· 7·30 a m .. Mid Fri: 7:30 a m.•7:00 p.ri Sat: Noon-6 00 p.m. Sun: Noon-Mid F,ee Pick-Up & Delivery! Call 631-COPY We're open late so your order will be done on time! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center EXTENDED store hours during finals Mon-Fri: 7·30 a.m.-Mid Sal & Sun: 10·00 am -Mid Nesd help with a pra1ec1? Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING ser• vices are available a1  LaFortcne Student Center Cal! 631-COPY Fax ii fast' Fax it fast' Sending & Asce/vlng THE COPY SHOP LaF01tune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-3291 THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center High-Speed Copying . Color Copying Resumes B~siness Cards Fax Service Desktop Publishing & a whole let morel Prompt Pick-up & Delive,y Call 631-COPY  Fax tt fastl  Assic-:t Eoucation Curator with summer youth art program 'ocusing on museum objects and related hands-on activities June sth lo July 29th, 10 hrs/week. Fine A.rl'3-major with exp, Teaching and/or working with children preferred. June 261h to July 2ath additional Work Study hours Nii eligible Nw'tt1 National Youth Sports Program to maka a total of 40 hours/wk if desirea. PLUS room and board included June 2slh to July 28th CALL educa11an curator Shannon Masterson, 631-4435. ASAP CURATORIAL ASSISTANT Wanted for Snite Mcseum of Ari. Work study is available 10-15 hrs/wk for 2000-01 school year.  Seeking responsible caregiver for 2 chi!• d1en. Mon. and/or Tues, 7:30-5·30. Transp & re1. necessary. 631-7051. Caregiver needed 2000-01 academic yr, Tues-Thurs, 7:45-5:45 tor 2 young chil­drAn. 631·7765. T,anspo & ref required Teacher wanted· ND/SMC families need teacher for next year to instruct children in home selling Part-time position. Salary/vacation negotiable. Call 258-9707. FOR RENT  LEASE! College Park -2 bedrooms. furnished. Call 243-8194 B&B 287-4545 NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND. GOOD AREA. 277-3097 RENT AL HOUSES FOR 4·6 STUDENTS WITH LARGE ROOMS W&D. 291·2209 DAVE 2 bedroom, 2 bath apartment for lease during summer session. Close to campus, washer/dryer Call Erin 4-4238 if interested.  PERSONAL Qui-san? Yes? I have just obtained the ingredients in Challenger's frying pan! Lei's lake a look at the instant replay' Good luck on your test, Allison' Promise rne less than 3 times next weekM end girls. Good luck on MCATS, Meredith, Nicole, Chris and Jennifer. Happy birthday early. Colleen Love, Kat  
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Call 631-COPY  WANTED  Responsibilities include scheduling tours and entering computer in1o. Fina Arts major with knowledge of  Large clean 2+ bedroom with basement and garage Top floor of very clean duplex near ND. Ideal for single graduate student wanting  FOR SALE  good luck making up your mind Bridget !hanks for the party Mike.  

Monday, April l0, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
more than willing to provide 
thf'ir huddy an open car. After 
Notre Dame's season-ending continued from page 20 loss, tho two sophomores stayed 
up until 4:~0 a.m. hashing out abnm what !w fer,Js about his Murphy's future with him before tcumnrntl:S. Not only am we a the toam·s trip back to South bcttnr lnam with Trov. but the Rend. rrusons hr wanted to romn back "We talked a lot in New York ( lw talkPd a lot about peopl11 after the Wake f,orost game." h<'n'. I [P tunwd down a million Craves said. "I roallv never had dollars to como back and be a talked to him about" iL before. I part of Notrn Dame for another kind of wantl:'d to keep it to him, year • but then in New York. it seemed 
Tlw inlhwnrc ol' Dolwrty, who like there were a lot of things on lkw in from a rr.cruiting trip for his mind. M0 and Harold and the announn'm<>nt. playnd a him ½nrc in the room and we major f'anor in Murphy's dcci-sat down and talked about it for sion lo ,·onw bfl.('k !'or bis junior a good hour. WP talkod and we y,•ar. /\!though !Johrrty didn't just waited. We said everybody. want to foff,t' Murµhy's hand. r.s p<'r.ia I ly Coar.h Doherty. is. tlwir r·lrisn rPlati.onship tugg('d going to try to get you to stay, l\1urphy in Notre Damr.'s direc-but I was like. this is yuur Lion. drnam. You've got to look at it 
''Tiu• mPP!ings with Coa('h seriously," Dolwrly, the Lime we spent talk-After Murphy carefully consid­ing about things, rnal!y made me Pn'd thP possibilities. he rame to srw what l want to do." Murphy the conclusion that he couldn't said. ''I r,\ally fnrl romfonablP renege on the promise he, with Coa1·h DohPrt:v, and I really Craves and Swanagan had made lik1' playing for him. llf' was dd-as incoming fresh.men. They initnlv a r!'ason whv I \V.tlltl'd to made a pact to restore Notre st,1v fn school." · Dame basketball to its glory 
l)ohnty lri(•d not to sway days. a goal that is still in tlrn Murphy too far in ldtlwr dircc-m11king and one Murphy wantPd lion. but lwlpNI him to choos11 to help fulfill. by putting him in contact with Murphy's decision wasn't set .lordan nnd othnr NB/\ players in stone until Thnrsdav. when he likn Pat Carrity and Hanf relayed his decision to Doherty LaFn,ntz. as well as senking out by phone and s1)vcral teammates information l'rom ag,~nts and in pP-rson. Yet his choice didn't draft <'Xpcrts. ThP first-year come as a surprise to his friends. hPad coach plarP.d a prnmium "I think he just wanted to be a on maintaining thf' closf' bond kid for a little bit longer," hi' forgPd this SC'ason with Swanagan said. "I wasn't really Murphy. n'gardlr1ss of' his dPci-surprised because his demeanor sion to stay or go. and the wav he ar,ts. he ar,ts like 
"My biggPst foar in thP whole a kid, so I figured he wanted to df'al is that hf' dot'Sn 't think, his stay in college." fam ilv doesn't think. that I'm Not cvervone felt as assurPd trying' to s•1ll him." DohPrty said. that Murphy would return. Close "Do I havr. an opinion? Yr.s. but I friend and freshman guard Matt want to haw a good rnlationship Carroll wavered bark and forth with Troy Murphy wh0n I'm 60. in second-guessing the decision. 70 y,1ars old. I don't want any of ",\t first. I started thinking. our guys to think l mad<' a deci-he's out of here." Carroll said, sion on thf'ir can'<'rs t'or my "And then somP days I'd think, sake-." well wH havn so mur.h fun 
Irish playPrs lik<' David Gravns togPthcr and we hav0 so many 
and [larold Swanagan wern things to look forward to. Why 
Murphy 

Sophomore Troy Murphy (No. 3) exchanges a high five with teammates Matt Carroll (15) and 
David Graves (34) in Notre Dame's NIT victory over Xavier. 
would he leave. He has every­thing he could want here. But then again. how could he pass that [the NBA] up?" 
When Murphy asked for Carroll's advice, Carroll tried to put himself in Murphy's shoes. In doing so, he thought he would opt to stay at Notre Dame. 
"If I was you, I think I would stay," Carroll said. 'Tm not say­ing this for selfish reasons for me and the team. I'm just saying this for your sake. You have 
Erhu Recital by Ms. Ma Xiaohui 
April 6, 2000, 6:30 pm: Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration, University of Notre Dame 
Erhu Soloist, Ms. Ma Xiaohui, is one of the most outstanding traditional musical instrumentalists in China and the concertmaster at the Traditional Music Orchestra in Shanghai. She has performed regularly iri China, Japan, Europe and the United States and recorded over 30 CDs. She won many musical awards and was the first musician to give an erhu recital at the Shanghai Spring 'tvlusic Festival. 
Erhu, a two-string fid­dle, is an old Chinese instru­ment, the earliest record of which dates back to the Han Dynasty, around 500 AD. 

Sponsored by South Bend Chinese Language School, Center ofAsian Study, Notre Dame Chinese Friendship Association and College ofBusiness 
everything you could want here. What more could you want? You're going to play in the NBA, you're going to be a lottery pick, no matter what. What's one more year of having fun? You can't take this back, and I think he realizes that." 
When push came to shove. Murphy agreed. "I love l'iotre Dame," Murphy said. "I love my teammates." He brushed aside dreams of donning a NBA jersey to keep 
the team together. And 
although playing in the NBA 
remains one of Murphy's top 
goals. that's for another day, 
another year. 

So. ihe 19-year-old will stay in 
school and be a kid for at least 
one more year. One more year 
of Morrissev Manor dorm life 
and eating at South Dining Hall. 
One more year of hanging out 
with the guys and 4:30 a.m. 
flights back to South Bend. One 
more year of suiting up for the 
Irish and aiming for a NCAA 
Championship. 
With Murphy now penciled into the starting lineup, the Irish return all but one starter, and add All-Big 12 forward Ryan Humphrey to the mix. This year's NIT championship run­ner-ups could make a run at the 2001 or 2002 NCAA Championship in the manner of Michigan State a week ago. The Spartans were led to the title by Mateen Cleaves and Morris Peterson, seniors who weighed the same decision as Murphy a year or two ahead of him. Maybe the Irish will get the same results -at least that's what Murphy and Co. hope. 
"I think we can be a great team next year," Murphy said. "I think we'll be at the top of the Big East and the top of the coun­try. We're a young team and we have a lot of guys corning back. I think we can accomplish great things with this group, and I look forward to a great year next year." 


.. 

page 14 The Obsaver . SPORTS Monday, April 10, 2000 
BASEBALL PRO TENNIS 

Agassi sends U.S. to Davis Cup selllis 

Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. 

Andre Agassi drew tho United States from tlw brink of Davis Cup elimination Sunday, then Poto Sampras overcame a strainrd thigh to sr,n<l the team Lo the semifi­nals. 
/\gassi heat .liri Novak of the Czech Republic 6-3, 6-3, 6-1 to tif1 the quartArfinal 2­
2. Sampras followed with 18 aces in a 6-4, 6-4, 7-6 (2) win over Slava Dosedel in tht\ final match to clinch a 3-2 victory. 
The United States will play Spain, a 4-1 winner over Russia, beginning .July 21 in Spain.
Walk-on Gagne earns fifth win Playing a fifth «nd decisivr, 
By BRIAN TRAVERS 
Sporn \1'.lricer 
Notre Dame pitchers Aaron Heilman and J P. Gagne posted strong wins as the Irish took two out of three games from Big East opponent Boston College this weekend at Eck Stadium. Game 1 
Gagne, a fresh­

man walk-on, Notre Dame 12, BC 1 
allowing four runs scattered six hits Game 2 on five hits and six and struck out ,valks in the first
BC 11, Notre Dame 1 
three on four innings. Saturdav to earn Game3 The Irish offense his fifth ~in while Notre Dame 10, BC 6 was led by senior senior righthander Steve Langone shut down the lrish in game two as the Eagles won 11­
J. 

Heilman (6-1} threw his Big East leading fifth romplete game of the season as he scattered eight hits and struck out five in the opener. Junior right.hander Erik Olson took the loss for the Eagles, 
Irish batters pumped out 16 hits as Notre Dame defeated BC 12-1. 
The Irish offense was led by sophomore designated hitter Ken Meyer with a 3-for-3 game that included two doubles, three runs. and a RBI. Sophomore cen­ter Steve Stanley added 3 hits, and shortstop Alec Porzel extended his hitting streak to 13 games. 
Gagne (5-0) pitched six strong innings to remain unbeaten and become the first Irish pitcher to start 5-0 since 1996, and the first freshman to do so since 1990. Lefthander Mike Naumann earned his first career save, allowing only four baserun­ners in the final three innings. 
Boston College could not take advantage of its opportunities Saturday. managing only one run on ten hits. Eagles' batters hit into two double plays. and stranded 14 runners in the game, while senior leftie Brendan N'olan {1-4) allowed eight runs in four innings to take the loss. 
Heilman, a Notre Dame junior, tossed a complete game Sunday to win thf' opener of yesterday's doubleheader 10-6 while B.C. 

first baseman Jeff 
Felker who went 3­
for-4 from the plate with a home run and three RBIs, and DH Paul O'Toole who con­nected on his sixth home run in his last ten games at Eck Stadium. 
In the nightcap. Eagles pitcher Steve Langone shut down the Irish bats, and the Boston College offense banged out 17 hits as the Eagles defeated Notre Dame 11­
1. 

Senior rightie Scott Cavey strnggled in his second straight Big East start for the Irish, allow­ing seven runs on 11 hits over 5 1/3 innings. Only four of the runs were earned. however, and manv of the 11 hits were not hard.hit balls. 
"Cavey did not pitch as poorly as the numbers suggest," head coach Paul Mainieri stressed after the game. "Some of the hits they had, they couldn't have placed in better spots." 
On the other side, Langone 14­
2) pitched brilliantly, allowing only one unearned run off nine hits in his fifth complete game of the year. The Eagles' offense was led bv second baseman Mike c;amb.ino with a 4-for-4 pNfor­mancc that included three runs 
Tuesday April 18th, 2000 
7:30 p.m. 
Saint Mary's College Little Theatre 
Daniel Weeks 
T E N 0 R 


iKgNPJI;)
' c._~ THL A~T$ 
~IWITM OAtll, lll 
for ticket information contact the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 2844626 
Thi• wncm fa rmenred ~y Saint Mary'.< College in a.m,datirm with The M11rifrn Horne foundatirm 
match for t.hc first t.inrn in his seven-year Davis Cup caroer,
and three HBls to finish the Sampras hit a backhand win­weekend series 8-for-12 and nnr off a 11 3-mph serve by

extend his hitting.streak to twon­Doscdel to win the tiebreakerty games. 

7-2 and set off a red, white
Porzel. a junior shortstop, col­and bluo cr,lcbration amonglected singles in each game to the 12,002 fans at thP Forum.

extend his career long hitting 

After sharing hugs with
streak to 14 games. 

teammates Agassi, Alex
Notre Dame now looks ahead 

O'Brien. .Jared Palmer and
to midweek home gamr.s against 

captain John McEnroe,Purdue, Bowling Green. and 
Sampras jogged around the
Toledo. where tho team will look 

court holding an American
to gain some important 11011-con­

flag overhead as
fe rence wins. and add some 

"Celebration" by Kool and thedepth to the pitching staff. 
Gang blared over the loud­
"These midweek games go a speakers. lie passed the flag

long way toward an at large to Agassi for a lap, then

berth in the NCM tournament," McEnroe did the same.

Mainieri said, "And are impor­

Sampras played with ener­
tant for improving the depth of 

gy and power, two ingredi­
our staff." 

ents sorely missing in his
Freshman Matt Laird will get 

straight-set flop against
the start on Tuesdav as the Irish 

Novak in Friday's opening
take on the Purdue !3oilcrmakers at 6:05 p.m. in Eck Stadium. 

singlos. Tlw 7•(> (1), 6-3, (i-2,. loss was the worst of Sampras' Davis Cup carnnr. 
After Agassi prnven ted tlw Czechs f'rom winning thl' series by b1ia ting Novak, Sampras took tlw court and quickly brok1~ Doscdc\l for a 2-1 lead. 
lie provided a scarn wlwn he pulled up aft.er a running forehand and limped to his rhair at the changeover. Sampras strained his left thigh on the shot and he hardly moved for some shots in the next game despite holding for a :3-1 lead. 
But he rPcovprod and resumed his sflrve-and-volloy gamo to groat effect. Dosndcl had no answer for Sampras' booming serve, which reached a high of 129 mph early in the second set. 
Sampras broke Dosedel for a 5-4 lr,ad in the second sc\l when the Czech netted a forn­hand volley off a drop shot by Sampras. Tlrnn Sampras served a lov!\ game. punctu­ated by a 124 mph acn, to take the sot 6-4. 
With the rrowd chanting, "Let's Go Pete," Sampras had two break points with thP third set tied 4-4, but his two r.onsecutive unforcPd errors allowPd DosPdel to hold for 5­
4. They stayed on serve until tlw tiebrcak. 
Dosedel sent a f'ornhand wide to giVl\ Sampras thn minibreak on thP first point of the tie break. DosPdel closed to 3-2 before Sampras won the final four points by hitting winners to close out the match. 
1 

Global Health Initiative and Lyons Hall present: 
Miles for Medicine 
5K Fundraiser Walk/Run Requested $10 donation at sign ups or at the run Proceeds go to medical missions in Haiti and Ecuador 
Thursday April 13th, 4:45 at CSC Sign ups: April 10th, 11th, 12th 5-7pm at La Fortune, NDH and SDH 
Free T-shirts for first 25 male and 25 female finishers 
Monday, April l 0, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

GOLF 
Irish take seventh at Marshall Invite 
Special to The Observer 
IIUNTINGTON. W.V. 
The Notre Dame men's golf tPam movnd up thrnc spots in tlrn stand­ings and ended up just two strokns out or fifth. with a Sf'V(111lh-plar1' nn­bh at thr• 20-tram Marshall Invitational fol­lowing Saturday's final round ol' action at the par-7 l . (>. 4 4 (1 -yard Guyan Golf' and Country Club. 
Senior Jdl' Connell continued his strong f'arrrr play al thr Marshall Invitational by closing with a round of 72 f'or a 220 total and a sl11u·p of 11th in tlw 103­playPr fip[d. Sophomore StPvc Batav rlosNl with a 74 !'or a 221 total and 
I(,th-placl' finish ·whi!P 
senior Todd Vernon post­ed his third straight 75 for a 225 total. Juniors Alex Kent and Adam Anderson rounded out the Irish contingent. 
Notre Dame matched its second-round score by closing with another 29CJ for an 892 total. just two strokes behind Ohio StatP and Ohio University. 
Mirhigan !mid off Miami of Ohio f'or the team title while Iowa's Matt Stutzman finished atop the individual standings at 214, with four players finishing tird for second at 217. 
Conrrnll has averaged 
72.7 strokes prr round in thrrc career appear­anc\~S at the Marshall Invitational, including a runrwr-up finish in 1998. 

Casey 
continued from page 20 
blue shirt and a blue and gold tie, underneath a suitjarket, in the mPdia room between the football and basketball otlices in the .Joyce Center. announcing a decision he thought he would never have to make. 
"I wanted to play four years, have a good time and get some gear," Murphy said of his initial plans when coming to Notre Dame. 
He's reached the latter two goals, and then some. 
Coming out of Delbarton High School in New Jersey, a prep school known more for its academics than ili; athletics, Murphy was consid­ered a top 50 national prospect. lie averaged over 30 points a game against relatively weak competi­tion. 
Murphy lived a life not uncom­mon for many Notre Dame stu­dcnls. He grew up in the suburbs, near NC"w York City, in middle to upper middle class neighborhood, with two loving parents. :'vlurphy wasn't caught up in the crazy world of big-time high school and AAU basketball, where players are looked upon as commodities by coaches and agents. In fact, he con­siders his MU c.oach, Tony Sagona, a friend and confidant who helped him make his decision to bypass the NBA draft. 
He was projected as a solid Big East prospect, a player that might be able to start at Notre Dame. 
But after leading the Big East in rebounding as a freshman, sudden­ly everything changed for Murphy. 
In the fall, a reporter asked Murphy what his plans were for after his sophomore year. Thus began the speculation. Never mind that Murphy hadn't even thought about leaving Notre Dame early for the NBA. 
Murphy was asked if he would have considered entering-the NB/\ if there was no speculation, no con­stant questioning. 
"Probably not," Murphy respond­ed. 
Yet after each ensuing game, some reporter would ask whether or not he'd be staying, The Internet was full of talk about tho Murphy saga. As the season progressed, the NBA question even ovP.rshad()wed the team's accnmplishments at times. 
Murphy could probably hear thP­Clash's "Should I stay or should I go'?'' ringing in his head every time he entered a press conference. 
Such is life in this sports-crazed society where a 19-year old's deci­sion is front-page news. 
A week ago some Notre Dame student wrote on an Intermit mes­sage board that campus opinion hRd shifted to where most people thought Murphy would leave. When the message was posted, several people looked at this kid as having some "inside'' information. 
The reality was that no one had any due whether Murphy would turn pro or return for his junior year. Not me. not anyone on cam­pus, not even Murphy himself. 
But that didn't stop people from calling his dorm room overy day, asking Murphy about his plans. It didn't stop the most popular sports related topic on campus from being the Murphy Chrunides. 
"The media, the lnif'rnet, drivrs that [the speculation] and all of a sudden it forces a young man to explore," Doherty said. "Agenl'i are calling players that I don't think are very good and may not be good pros. I think it's bad for thp; whole process." 
These past fow weeks have shown the other side of sporl'i, off the court. where realitv can be cruel. Consider two othP-r highly regarded Big East underclassmen who decided to leave school to chase the NBA drram 
St. John's sophomore point guard Erick Barkley was suspended twice this past year by thH NCM for alleged infractions committed while still in high school. He grew up in Brooklyn, hyped as the next star New York City point guard. follow­ing Kenny i\ndHrson, Stephon Marbury and all the other city greats. He was used to everyone 

¦ ¦
Author S 1gn1ng 

Meet author 
J.D. Dolan Monday April 10th 7·30 pm 
in the Hammes Notre Dame Boolestore 

J D Dolan 

J.D. Dolan joins us to discuss his funny and sad memoir of life in the idyllic 1950s -one that started to unravel after his sister was kicked out of the house and his older brother was drafted into the Vietnam War -and suddenly the Dolans are as if scattered by the four winds of resent­ment, misdirection, illness, and death .. 
HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www,ndbookstore,com 
wanting a piecP-of him, every lowlife trying to associate with him because in the futurr lrn might make millions in the prns. 
So he decided enough of the NCAA, enough of their petty rules and chose to pursue his dream in the NBA. 
Connecticut junior point guard Khalid El-Amin also decided to enter the draft this past week. As the father of two young chil­dren, EI-Amin's decision was based on providing for his f'ami­ly. He may have wanted to stay at UConn for another vear, but in his case. the money was too important. 
Then there was Murphy. whose life had almost changed overnight from a great high school player to a future NBA lottery pick. He doesn't have any children to carr for, doesn't need to support his family. But the pressure was still there because he's a first-team All-1\merican. a prized r.ommodity in the business known as the 
NBA. 
In a pm·fect world, Murphy's biggest decisions would be whal room to live in next vear, what classes to take and .~·hat to do this summer. 
But instead, he listened to advice from Doherty. his parents and Sagona. He conwrsed with fonm~r Notre Dame and currf'nt Nl3A pla.yrr Pat Garrity and sev­eral other NBA players and executives. including "Mr. Jordan". ,l'i Murphy referrm! to the former Chicago Bulls grrmt Michael Jordan Fridav. 
Then he rnme to a decision. not basPd on an uncertain future, but on the present where he's content being the biggt1st name on a football crazy cam­pus and living on a campus where he can still bf' a kid. 
In turning down the millions. Murphy traded a house for a single in Morrissfly I !all. groupies for parietals, striak and lobster for th<1 SOIL a yacht ror· the Boat .1.· 
And I., ..,,; no regn•ts. 
"In the end it camr down to the things you can't trade in for," Murphy said. "The cxp(~ri­enccs l have h0re at Notrn Dame1. the experiences I havn with mv tcammatns -I wouldn't tradr those for any­thing." 
The l'iews expressed in !his column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those <f 711e 0bseruer. 
page 16 

The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 10, 2000 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish finish undefeated in league play with close win 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Spom Writer 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team r.ompleted an undefeated season in the Great Western lacrossf' league on Sawrday by defeat­ing a tough Butler team 12·11. The Notre Dame 12 Irish have now won 
Butler 11 
or shart>d the GWLL title in nine of head r.oar.h Kevin Corrigan's 12 seasons. 
The fourteenth ranked Irish estab­lished an early lead against lhe Bulldogs by scoring three quick goals in the first ten minutes of play. Sophomore Devin Hyan put the Irish on the board first and David Ulrich and Steve Bishko each fol­lowed with goals of their own. 
a looked as though Notre Dame was going to run away with this one much like in the previous conlest against Ohio State. But the Hulldngs battl11d back and kept it close with goals l'rom Chris Vosburgh and Doug Patterson bdore the 

prriod was ovr,r. the ball with eight s1~<'.· ThG Irish, who controlll'd the ball for onds to play and fired 
a .most of the second quarter. onr.e again shot that was blocked bv made a run of three goals to go ahead 7-Kirk llowr.11 that saved 3 before the half. The quarter was high­the game for the Irish. lighted by lhe play of bolh Jon llarvey Notre Dame is now :i­and Tom Gh1.tzi>l who ead, scored twice. 3 and looking to Glatzr.l, last week's player of the week, improve ear,h week as led the team in scoring !'or the second thr.y prepare for Urn straight game with three goals and two NCAA tournament. Tim assists. Glatzel's three goals now put 
Irish will next take on him only seven behind last year's total of the Army Cadets. 
26 with four games still left to phl)'. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Belles make clean sweep of opponents 
two sets to earn the 'W'. By KATIE MCVOY The rest of the morning's Assistant Spom Editor matches were uneventful. Trisha 
Jones, Natalie Cook. Knish, Becky 
The Saint Marv's tennis team Kremer, and Lindsay Mollan made a dean si·eep this week­recorded wins in singles. The end. defeating Alma College and doubles teams of Cook and Tri-State College Saturday 9 -0. Kremer. and Victoria Cox and 
Saint Mary's faced Alma at the Elisa Ryan also scored poinL'> for 
'.\lotrn Dame tennis facility. forced the Belles. to play The scr.ond game of the day inside due proved to be VPry exr,iting. 
Surrounded by families and fans,
t o Game 1 

inclement the Belles facp,d olT against Tri­
Saint Mary's 9

weather. State. 13erause AlmaO Stevenson took the opporlunity Alma was a to start a dilfonmt line-up. 
Game 2 

r.onf'erence Marta Dzif'kan and Angie match and Saint Mary's 9 Sander went to three sel., in their had given singles matches. Both came up
Tri-State 0 

S a i n t ,vith victories. Mary's a Sander, who played No. 3 sin­challenge last year. Coach Dee gles. went immediately from her Stevenson began his regular linP­intense singles match to anothnr up. intense doubles match. Toamcd 
"We were expecting them to be up with Dziekan. Sander faced a challenge," Knish said. "They another tough match. winning were a conference team and thev the match 8-6. had given us trouble last.year." · "It was really great competi­
The match got off to an exciting tion," Dziekan said. "We played start with tho first doubles 
hard for about four hours 
match. The top doubles team. slraight.'" composed of Knish and Katie The Belles went undefeated \'ales. took the first set of the again, taking the match 9-0. 
game 6-0 with very little rcsis­Jones, Mollan. Elisabeth Spieth, tan ce from their Alma oppo­and Cox won the four other sin­nenL-;. However, the second set g!es malchcs, and the doubles wac; a different storv teams of Jones and Mollan and 
"We were verv c;irtident com­Sarah BrnhlN and Leslie Ortiz ing in and we took the first match finished the 9-0 vidory. easi!v," Knish said. "The second The tPam attributes a lot of set ~e were a little too confident their vktory to confidence r,orn­and we kind oflct up and made a iug into tho match and to their lot of unforrnd errors." fans. 
Luckily the Belles held on to "We came out there and we some of their game and won the didn't waste anv time," Jones second set 7-6 in a tiebrnaker. said. ''We had S(l much support winning the match. from our fans," Dziekan added. 
Vales also had an exciting sin­"It was a long day, playing from g!f1s matrh. having lO go all thrnc 8:00 to 8:00. The support ..:vas an sets before claiming the victory. immensfl strc!ngth and the lovn 
Coming from behind with a 0-1 and r,arc of thn fans r<mlly pullrd margin. Vales won the second us through." 
Notre Dame, who ncvnr trailed in the game, held a commanding 10-6 lead with just under eleven minntP-s left to play after a David Ulrich goal. 
Instead of conceding defeat, Butler went on a tear to ti!~ the game 10-10 with five minutes left. This Butler run was led by their top scorer. Miko Regan. who netted two goals during the spurt. Regan. who was unstoppable at times. led all scorers on tho day with four goals and two assists. 
The Irish were not about to let this one slip away and rallied bark as Stedman Oakey and Jon Harvey scored lwo goals in the next two minutes. With little time remaining, it appearnd as though the Irish would walk away with yet anolhcr GWLL win -bnt not bcforn Mike Hegan brought the Bulldogs back within one with 18 seconds left on tho clock. 
Following Regan's goal. Butlm· goi lhe ball back on the ensuing l'acc-ofl. aftiir Notre name cornmiUed a procndurn pen,tlty that gavP the Bulldogs one last chance to tic it up. 
Ityan Ward from Butler ended up with 

JEFF HSUfThe Observer 

Notre Dame's men's lacrosse team worked together to complete an undefeated conference season, finishing out league play with a narrow victory over Butler. 
p ,
NE W AN CAKE -M I N I S™-J U S T 9 9 ¢ I EAT A DELICIOUS BREAKFAST ON YOUR WAY TO WORK WITHOUT WEARING I TI 
; 
"'-'..:,;,,,...... 
., 

DELICIOUS, SILVER-DOLLAR SIZED PANCAKE-MINIS~ 
INTRODUCING GREAT-TASTING, BUTTERMILK PANCAKE·"lNIS~ THEY'RE THE 
PERFHT  SIZE  FOR  DIPPING  WITHOUT  DRIPPING  AS  YOU  RACE  TO  WORK,  
FOR  A LIMITED  TIME.  GET  SIX  FOR  JUST  99t,  ONLV  AT  BURGER  KING!  
llle Huddle -Lafortune Student Center  


Monday, April I 0, 2000 The Obseruer . SPORTS page 17 
capturn llwir fifth consecutive 
._..

win ovrr tlrnir state rivals. who
Tennis 
aro off to a solid 10-7 start. Indiana is l•~d by junior Jessica
continued from page 20 
Anderson, n tn~mPndous singles player who Iius amassed a
Th,, tandi>m of' stmior Sarah 
sound :W-9 record on the cur­
Scaringe and Kati<' Cunha addrd 
rent campaign. Kelly Blanch will 
a point with a win at No. 3 dou­
take to Llw court al No. 2 singles 
blrs. William and Mary sav0d 
and will likely provide Becky
!'an, wilh del'r,al of' Gn•(:n and Varnum with a stern test.
Zalinski al No. 2 doublPs. 
While Ind.iana does boast
The win was a cr11rial orn' for sonw solid singles talent. they .
Lhl' Notn· Danw womPn as they 
an' indeed top heavy, NotrP.
look forward to gre1•n1ir pas­DamP. will no doubt sport theturPs that lir: ahPad. Thr squad's dt>cpPr singles arsenal andhigh level ol' play ol' late has left should have an edge as tho sin­many nx<'itnd about their gles mat<'hes progress.
rhancrs or making a run in thn 
Indiana's top doubles tandem
l'orthcoming /\CAA 
is a pairing of its top two singlesChampionships. 
playor ·The r.oupling ol'
Tlw road to thosl' sanrn d1am­Anderson and Blanch is ranked
pionships rPsunws right away as 
32nd nalionallv.

tlw Irish rPturn l10nw t.o hattlr 
Whill' thf' · lloosiers have
Lh<' !loosil'rs of' Indiana on 
dropped their last four meetings
Tu1•sduv, 
with tlw Irish, llwy lead Lhe all­
Tlw irish will bP looking to 
tim(' scriPS bv a count of 9-4. 
-
' ~~\,Veb Adm,nistrution 
Universfty Web Administration Summer Positions Come Join our team and work on the University Web Site! 
Web Page Design 
Requirements: Fluent in HfML.. web page design and layout. Familiar with Dreamweavar, Pire,vorks, and FrontPage 2000 a plus. 
Web Page Programming Requirements: FILJan1 in HTMi, UNIX, Pecrl. Filemcker Pro, JavaScrip1. Famiriar -.-.·i1h SOL, A.SP. 
Hours: M-F 8-5 20-40 hours a week 
will work around students c:;lass :.chedule 

:Subrril cppifc;atlon or htlp://.~-nd.eo.;Js~udc::ntapp2.shlm 
. ··.~ "' 
otes Sire 

heytJl' 

LectuRe noTes . rEview & exam preParatioN . studv gRoups (AmonG otHer acAdemic tReaTs) 
-a/wars (1440.365) oPen-
Where ta go when you need to know." 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS t\1onday, April 10, 2000 
.....: WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish end losing streak with 13-10 win over Eagles 
I 
I 
I
! & 
I 
I 
.. 
• First weekend game ends in loss to Connecticut 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports ~'ritr:r 
The women ·s !axe.rs ended a rigorous week of road trips vic­torious. l'inishing 1-1 for the weekend. The Irish rise to 4-6, afte.r a loss to Connecticut on Saturday and a 
win  at  13ostun  
College  on  Game 1  
Sundav.  

Connecticut 17

The ·win against tered the Eagles· Boston C:ollegt> Notre Dame 7 attar.k. holding th<• ended a losing home team scoreless
Game 2 

streak which for the remainder ol' 
Notre Dame 13

strf'trhed to six thP contest. Doyl<> games with the Boston College 10 'had lhe last word for 
own to makP the score 6-4.. Irish lri-captuin and leuding scorer La.el O'Shaughnessy. and mid­fielder 1\1aura Doyle Paf'h scorml to end the first hall' at 8-7. 
Co-captain Kathryn Pcrri'ila and Moser kept the Irish lciad at 12-9. matching the Eagles· two scores to open the second half. Boston College still wasn't ready to giw uµ as the Faglos· leading scorer Emily Hyan SC'ored her fourth goal of the game to bring the tally to 12-10 with 10 min­
utes n•maining in tlw 
half. 
The determined 
lr•ish ddcnsc coun­
de.foal by Connecticut. Boston College dropped to 4-6 on the season Seven different play­ers scored for tho Irish against the Eagles tu bring the final score to 13-10 in favor of lhP Irish. 
For the duration of the six game slide. the Irish averaged six goals per game, but they scored four goals in the first six minutes against the EaglP-s lo take an earlv lead. Danielle Shearer contI~ibuted two while sophomore Alissa Moser and and freshman Anne Riley also scored. 
Boston College refused to con­cede the match, evening the score with four straight goals. Then Irish attacker /\ngela DLxon countered with two of her 

thP visitors, scoring once more as the dock ticked down. 
PPrrrlla led the Irish in assists. totaling three, whilP O'Sl1a.ughnessy added two. Dixon and Doyle also assistPd on goals for the Irish. · 
Notre Dame outshot Boston College 33-21. Irish goalie Tara Durkin finished the game with 12 saves. while Eagles· goalie Valerie Leuchs made 10. 
In their 17-7 loss to thr Connecticut lluskies, the Irish allowed a season-high 17 goals and were held scoreless for fif­teen minutes in the first half and for the final 24 minutes in ttrn second half'. 
:'IJotre Dame held Connecticut to a 1 -1 tie Aarly in the game. a tie brokf:n by four consecutivo lluskies goals. Perrella and ()'Shaughnessy answered with one ea(:h. only to havo the Iluskies go on thni.r second scor­ing dt·ive ol' tlw lirst half', further opening their lnad on thn Irish. PnrrPlla scornd again. along with Shearer to end Llw hair down by fivn. 
Tho Irish lwld the lluskies scoreless for tlrn first fifloen min­utes o!' the scicond half'. but wer<' only able to narrow Conn,icticut's lead by two. with goals from Perrella and defend(~r Tina Fcdarcyk. 
The Irish offense was com­pletely shut down by the Iluskies l'or the final twnnty-/'our minutes of the game. as Connecticut rceltid off' scvon morn goals to cnnwnt its victory. 
Pr.rella led lrnr team with three goals. ()'Shaughnessy followed with two. a.nd Fndarcyk and Shearer each tallied one for thn Irish. Although thl1 Irish were unable to outscore the Huskios, thev outshot Connoclirnt 31-28. Du~·kin stoppnd 3 shots for the Irish. whilf' Connocticut freshman /\µril Pollock mad<' 17 saves to take the vic­tory. 
The freshmen con­tinue to dominate Urn Irish offpnsP. 
Dixon. Hilny, ShParer. and Kelly McCardell have com­bined to score 31 of thn team's 83 goals, and 51 of' the team's total or 121 points thus far this season. 


JEFF HSU/The Observer Notre Dame stopped a six-game losing streak with a 13-10 victory over Boston College Sunday. 
~e sprinJ menus are in bloom al Oorin 's. Dine in 1he true spirit of Notre Dame, while experiencing 1·,. the budding navors of the season. Springtime at Sorin's brings a renewal of our menu as we honor our commitment to bringing you ( (he finest foods available. Visit Sorin's at The Morris Inn, t and embrace the season. 's ;iYf r771, Morris fnn. ~.sorinsnclcom •Resen•ations Recommended· 631-2020  

Please, come back me. • ­



-
Visi-t Jesus 1n Eucharis-tic Adora-tion _ 
Monday 11 :30 p.rn. to Tuesday -1:0-:·00pm in Fisher Hall 
Frida.y 12:.00.pm-S:OOprn, Lady Chapel-, Basilica 
Eucharistic Adorat±on. is-sponsored by Campus M±nis·try • 7.;;_e,--.:;-.;,:.c;nhau.a _ l..:,2n.ct_ e:ch.:. for more information or to sign upf·o~r~v•-·a·-pe.rn-;;:;._ent ha:L.£.-h.our or. h.ou.z:. s1-ot • 
Monday, April 10, 2000 The Obseroer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES  
111f~E. i'tlV, C,0T "To SE. b. lOGl<.1>,L. El'Pd\l'J/>,T10N FOR. ""Tll\S  ABov, A l'\.ONTH ~Go, 'l'ou WC~f. A60Vl.iEO 'S'< :':,QVlt~£V':, ,-.1110 IMf'LMJTEI) f,. T!I.J'{ f'\\CJtO<,\-\iP IN '(cu~ 1-\EII.O 7"t\llT 1~ Nov,; cl\v!>1N,:, '(Ov 6~B-r ll.1.NS':>S. '!'ov OoN'T R£M£1"18£R ANt 01= 11\1~ ~f_O,\/~E. -.PvR Mcl"Cl:Y W/'-S Cof./.-f"ct."iE"t'I" \:flSt.  
' .............  
Fox TROT  
JASON! STOP! LET SoMEol'lE El.SE CLEAR THE TABLE! '­ 

TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
BILL AMEND 
'YET ONE osv,ouSLY, MoRE CHORE 'YOU ONL'I' 
MOM'LL Looi( LIKE NEVER ASI< YOU DON'T HE To Do l<NoW WHAT 
.. 
AGAIN. YOU'RE DOING.
, 
\ 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Wharton degree 1 ltsy-bitsy 33 Semester's-end 4 Jerks 
events 

34 Robe for Caesar 
9 Mob 
14 Ewe's mate 35 Hardly a genius
15 Field of play 36 One-man show
16 Easy-to-carry about President instruments Truman17 Part of an 39 Yemeni portoctopus 40 Simplify
18 Not now 41 Signs to beware
19 Harass of20 What Rick 42 Beatty or Rorem
Blaine never said 
43 and sciences23 Endings for hydrocarbons 44 High-priced furs 
24 Bambi's mother, 45 Baba 
e.g. 46 Prefix with plane 25 Ordered 47 Plaintive plea in (around) the 1919 Black 28 Leopold and Sox scandal 
_ (big 1920's 54 It makes a murder case) clicking noise 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

55 Tony winner _ Lenya 56 Before, for a bard 
57 Actor John of "The Addams Family'' 
58 Dutch painter Jan 
59 Aviv 
60 Places for hinges 61 Where to find dates? 62 Message in a bottle? 
DOWN 
1 Coat or shawl 2 Rank below 
marquis 3 Austen heroine 4 Certain 
Indonesians 5 Speechified 6 Followers of 
epsilons 7 Force on Earth: Abb~ 8 "Nobody doesn't like Lee" 9 Schmooze (with) 10 Overly overweight 

..,,A-:+:M,+,:E+-:-R+=+-=-+-:-:-,1-=11-:::-+-:-+.,.,-t-::+.=+:::+::-1 11 Parks on a bus 
T E R 5 12 Consider R R I S 13 N.Y.C. clock setting A S S Y 21 Toadies 22 Rating a 10 >-:-+-:-:-+,=+:N:+.-+-:-H+E::+.S::-1 25 Commenced A R A R T O A R P 26 Rust, for one M A N T E W T E R 27 Put in the bank 

45 Sailor's "yes!" 50 Trivial bit 46 Poker stakes 51 New York footballers
47 "Comme ci, commeya" 52 Black-and-white cookie
48 Chrysler, e.g. 53 Congers
49 "The Sun Rises" 54 Plenty ticked 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual suliscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Puzzle by Jerry E. Rosman 
28 Fertile soil 
29 Look like a wolf? 
30 Mushroom 
31 Carried 
32 Yawning gulf 
34 " does it!" 
35 Shoots in the 
jungle? 37 Kind of badge for a scout 38 Makes husky, as a voice 43 Martians and such 44 Sofa 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, APRIL 10, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Olivia Brown, Steven Seagal, Chuck Connors, Omar Sharif, Oare Boothe Luce 
Happy Birthday: Listen and learn this year. You will gain valuable information if you are observant. You will be able to convince others to join forces with you to make a greater impact with your actions. You will do best if you concentrate on specific goals instead of trying to do too many things at once. Your numbers: 13, 21, 25, 39, 44, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You have an unreal assessment of your surroundings. You need to talk to someone who can help you recog­nize the problems you face at home. You must try to solve domestic dis­putes reasonably. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Your emotions will be unstable due to trivial matters. Do not overreact to financial situations you can do noth­ing about. Put your efforts into ways that you can earn extra cash. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your lover will be able to make you angry without much effort. You must ig­nore the comments he or she makes and busy yourself with activities that will relax you. Go for a massage after 
work.000 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Think before you act. Someone around you may not be telling you the truth. Minor accidents will occur ifyouare careless or preoccupied. Don't let yourself be taken for granted, 
000 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Try to avoid gambling or taking unneces­sary financial risks. Travel will be exciting, but be prepared to spend more than you had planned. Career moves will be positive. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
EUGENIA LAST 
Changes in your position are appar­
ent. It is best to move with the times 
rather than putting up a fuss. Your 
new job will give you more creative 
freedom. Make alterations to your 
image. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Visit 
friends if you get the chance. Knowl­
edge will be easily retained, Sign up 
for lectures that will not only interest 
you, but further your career.direction 
as well. Get creative with hobbies. 
00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may want to make changes to insur­ance policies or other personal docu­ments. You can make a little extra money through investments. Limi­tations will be due to changes. 
00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't take chances. You may risk the most important thing in your life. Your partner has just about had enough and will be prepared to walk if you don't straighten out your 
affairs. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can present your ideas and expect to have them well-received today. Your originality will be ad­mired, and support will be forthcom­ing. Advancement is in the offing. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will enjoy getting together with friends. Don't be surprised if a friendship turns into a serious con­nection. You should look into educa­tional pursuits that will further your position. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Friends or children may cost you dearly. Self-deception may be an issue if you refuse to look at the whole picture on the home front. You will be vulnerable and easily taken for granted. 00000 

Birthday Baby: You are loyal, steadfast and willing to work hard. You have the ability to influence others using your intuition as well as your charm. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
©2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and rn ail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name Address 

I 
---------------------------I
City _______State ____· Zip_____ 
I 
,, I 



For the love of the game 
/Jesiynated hUler Ken Meyer hit 3~for-3 for the Irish in Noire Dame's 12-1 l'iclory 01•er Roston College.
PORTS 
page 14 
O
THE page 20 BSERVER Monday, April 10, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Murphy passes up NBA draft to stay at Notre Dame 
. Decision results from love for Notre Dame, teammates 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
A,scKi:ue .Spores fdiror 
.. 
Troy !\-1 urµhy pkkt>cl l'riPnds ovf'r fortune rridav and annoLm<'('d his drfision l<J sprnd anotlwr y(1 ar at l\iotrl' Danw with his t;•am1111ttl•s rnthrr than µursur tlw ri<'hrs that go with bPing an NBA lottPry drnrt pirk. 
"In tlw 11ml. it ranw down to lhal llwn· arc Lhings that you _just rnn't t.radP in for," Murphy said in a prPss ninfrrPncP Friday. "Thr cxpcri1'11n~s I haw·. here at Notrr Danw. llw rxperi­pnres I lrnvl' with mv u~am­rnal1's. an• things that you can't tradr in for. for anything real­ly." 
Aftrr Notre Dame ·s season endPd March 30. the sopho­morP All-:\nwrican PxplorPd his options with tl1P lwlp of his par­ents. !wad rnach Matt Dolwrtv, his AAU rnach Tony Sagona. his tPammatl's and NBA playPrs such as :vtirhael Jordan. Draft expPrts pr<'dirt!'d Murphy would be pirk('d bt>twet'n eighth and I 5th in tlw NBA draft. guarantPPing him a multi-mil­lion dollar contract. 
In addition to tlw 2:1 points and IO rPbounds p1'r ganw that Murphy brings to tlw tablP. his rPlurn says mountains about tlw tPam 's colH'siv1·11Pss and chr•mistry. :vlurphy mad!' his announc·pmpnt with 1·oacl11•s and t(•ammates in low, ('CJ!ll­menling that lw rnuldn'L l'orgo eitl11'r his time ldt al Notre Dame or his relationships with teammatns and coarhing stuff. 
"The young man's turned clown a million dollars." I Doherty said. "That says a lot 
I 
see MURPHY/page 13

I ~ 

KEVIN DALUMfThe Observer 

Sophomore forward Troy Murphy announces his decision to remain at Notre Dame for his junior season as head coach Matt Doherty looks on. The All-American was considering making himself eligible for the NBA draft following the school year. 
. Media questions caused unneeded stress, pressure for college kid 
Troy Murphy awokP on Friday morning al't1'r tossing and turn­ing all night. That altrTnoon lw was to announc•p his intPntions f'or 1wxt vPar. ;\ fpw hours Iawr. 
Murphy· 
lwadPd ovPrto tlw dry r!Pan­<·rs to pick up a shirt to wrar at tlw pn~ss 
C.011 fpJ'('11 C('. Only prob­lrm was lw 

had lost his Tim Casey tickPt. 
"I ,wnt ovPr tlwrP 
llssistanl 
Ito tlw clrv 
.'-,'ports Fdilor 
rlPatll'rsl· and said I 11/LVI' SOllll' 
stuff ht'rt\," Murphy said at Friday's prPss ronfpn•nt·1· announcing lw'll lw rPturning for his junior st'ason. "Tlwy said 'no you don't." 
So Murphy s<•arrlwd Pwry­wlwrP f'or a shirt lo WPar . .-\f't1•r gPtling bark in his car. Ill' f'ound a bluP button-down "hirt rrum­plPd in a ball in tlw ba('k ol' his .IPPp Cherokl'1'. What was lw to do? 
Murphy and a friPnd had an idPa. Tlll'y Wl'n' shopping al a loral ston' whrn tlwy saw a honw drv r.!Paning kit. 
"All 1ia sudd1•n I ,vas buying it." Murphy said. "I WPnt ba('k to mv dorm and lwn• I am." 
·sounds likP sonll'thing a rnl­lPgl' sophomorP would do. But there lw was. with a light 
see CASEY/page 15 

l f 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
f 
I 
I 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Wrircr 
Thf' 14th ranked NotrP. DamP women's tennis team r.ontinucd its rnetPoric asr.ent to the top of the national rank.ings with an imprcssivP. 6-3 victory ovnr the No. 16 TribH of William and 
Mary 
The Irish took four of six sin­gles matches and won two of the three doubles matches contested in winning their second match over the Tribn this season. In a dominated her first set. scoring much-anticipated match that an r:asv 6-0 victorv. before !'al­was the first for . tering"tater in th1\ the Irish against match. The Tribe's a ranked oppo­34th ranked Carlijn
Notre Dame 6 
nent in m,Hn 13uis stormed back than a month. William and Mary 3 to upset Dasso win­
the Notre Dame women left it all out on the r,ourt. 
After an uncharacteristic No. 1 singles loss by team leader Mirhclle Dasso. the Notro Dame supporting cast stepped up in a big way to carry the day. Da.-,so 
ning the last two 
SlltS 6-4, &-:~. 
With their leader failing lo provide thn usual quick strike point, the rnst of the Notrn Dame women were forced to raise thnir level of play. 
Sophomorr. standout Becky 

Varnum did just that as she nct­trd brilliant come from behind dPcision over 5:frd rankrd Dr.lphinr: Troch. Varnum dropped tho opening set but ral­lied to capture the next two. Pvcning the score at one npir:r.e. 
After sr,nior Kelly Zalinksi !'ailed in her bid to tin Jennifer f!all for the most rarer.r si.ngles victories, thr Irish found them­SHlvcs in a 2-0 hole. 
Down 2-1 the Irish dug d1)op. Nina Vaughan. Lindsey Groen. and Katin Cunha all won in 
straight sets to put thr Irish on top by a 4-2 count. That dPrisiw margin meant the Irish would nnrd to win just onn of' thrn,, doubles matr.hrs to secur<' victo­ry. 
Dasso and Varnum lrl't little doubt as to the outcome of' the match. as they got the n1rnded win right away. Tlw pair trounr.ed William and Mary's top pairing of' Buis and Tror.h 8-5. 
see TENNIS/page 17 

• 
Sofcball Women's Lacrosse
vs. Indiana
~''1 

vs. Buder ar Duke
'•'.:"~::•' Tuesday, 3 p.m. 
~~ ,I

SPORTS • Wednesday, 4 p.m. •-Thursday, 7 p.m. 
ATA 
at Michigan 
Track and Dield 

Baseball .
r!i''1 Thursday, 3 p.m. 

-\.,.--:.::::-,/ at Mr. Sac Relays (Calif.)
vs. Purdue ~
'. _, • a• 
Friday, TBA
GLANCE • 

Tuesday, 6:05 p.m. 






