
Guster 
Get out and vote! 
Guster pulls two Notre Dame students on 
Tuesday
For St. Joseph cou.nty voters, local polls close 
stage during its performance at Stepan Center 
at 6 p.m. Make your voice heard and go to the 
on Friday. 
polls. 
NOVEMBER 7,
Scene . page 12 
2000 

The lndependefl! Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 50 

The Choice 2000 
AFP Photos 

Republican presidential candidate George W. Bush and Democratic presidential candidate Al Gore await results of one of the closest races in history. Results for the presidential election are expected to be in late tonight or early tomorrow morning. 
Of course, college students process. 
. ND design class

. Voter turnout 
are not the only ones not vot­Sophomore Mattlow among 18 to ing. Only about half of all Wilkerson, who is also not 
encourages young 24-year olds Americans voted in the '96 voting this year, said that 
voters with posters

election. But when U.S. vot­main-party candidates posi­ers are broken down into age tion themselves too closely to 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
By ERIN LaRUFFA

groups, the 18 to 24-year­the political center in order 
Associate News Editor Associate News Editor 
olds have the lowest turnout. to get more votes. Many observers of this "I don't really agree entire­
Every November, 
Concerned about the low voter Americans get to decide who trend, and even non-voters ly with either !Bush or 
turnout among 18 to 24 year

themselves, attribute low Gore]." he said. "I really
their leaders will be on local, 
olds, a Notre Dame graphic

turnout to apathy. don't have much faith in the state and national levels. But design class recently launched a"I didn't have any good presidential system." 
most 18 to 24-year olds don't 
non-partisan campaign to

reason not to vote. I'm just Similarly, despite labeling seem to care. 
encourage students to vote. 

lazy," said Notre Dame himself as "lazy," Lambrecht
In fact, 68 percent of 
"Arguably, [voting] is one of thejunior Nick Lambrecht. did have reasons for not vot­Americans in that age brack­

most important things you do in

Low voter turnout among ing in today's presidential
et chose not to cast their bal­your life," said the class's profes­
this age group, however, election.

lots during the last presiden­sor, Robert Sedlack, who comesinvolves more than just lazi­"My vote isn't going to do
tial election in 1996. 
from what he describes as· a

ness. For example, many 18 anything," said Lambrecht,Percentages are even lower to 24-year-olds simply do notin non-presidential years. 
have faith in the electoral see VOTING/page 7 see PROJECT/page 7 


Internet outage frustrates ND community 
said. solved.
By TIM LOGAN 
Service was disrupted when a circuit Like students, 0IT personnel were 
Senior News ~/ritcr 
upgrade at Ameritech's Chicago hub not pleased with the outage.
and SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
was unsuccessful. As a result, high "This is a big black eye on 
News Writer 
bandwidth connec-Ameritech." Klimek tions, including said. "We're not sure 
Tho Internet outage that lasted from Notre Dame's, "This is a big black eye what the long-term Sunday morning to Monday evening which connects to on Ameritech. We're not fallout will be." prevented users l"rom viewing Web that hub were cut Resources outside of
sure what the long-term 
pages outside of the nd.edu domain off. Since the prob­the Notre Danie net­and sending e-mail to persons outside lem occurred off fallout will be. " work that professors of the Notre Dame community, and campus with the recommended for pro­caused frustration among students. phone company, jects were unavailable,
Tom Klimek
The way the Office of Information Notre Dame's OIT which created some 
manager of Telecomm Services
Technology communicated the outage was essentially additional work for was not satisfactory to some students. helpless to fix it, students trying to com­
"I wish that they sent out a notice as according to Tom plete assignments that soon as they found out about the out­Klimek. manager of Telcomm Services. Internet access would have simplified. age, rather than waiting until Monday "We're somewhat at their mercy," he morning," freshman Aahren DePalma said Monday before the probiem was see INTERNET/page 4 


HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
CLC 


New 24­hour space guidelines 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Writer · 
Eleven senators attended the Campus Life Council (CLC) meeting to support the approval of a reso­lution to post a policy about 24­hour space in all residence halls Monday. 
"We con­cluded that although a definition of 24-hour space does exist, it still is not abided by in some of the residence halls," said Lewis Hall senator Luciana Reali. "The Senate came up with what we hope to be a solution to this." 
The CLC passed the 24-hour space resolution, which the com­mittee on gender issues of the Student Senate initially drafted, that defines 24-hour space as areas available to the hall resi­dents and their guest for all 24 hours. Students must abide by the rules in duLac and exercise "good judgement." 
The Office of Student Affairs has to approve the resolution in order to implement the policy, but the CLC is going to further address issues about the 24-hour space policy during its next meeting. However, assistant vice president of Residence Life Bill Kirk had positive comments about the poli­cy. 
"I think this is a really well drafted and well thought out reso­lution," said Kirk. "It clearly added something that we're still having a problem with." 
Kirk said that while he does not want to make 24-hour space a "passion pit," it is important to address some of the concerns that student have. 
According to a survey regarding 24-hour space conducted by the Student Senate the majority of the dorms that lack full 24-hour space by the Senate's definition are female dorms. 
"There is a disparity between female and male residence halls," said Reali. 
The most apparent distinction is the presence of hall monitors in female dorms and lack thereof in male dorms. Because the hall monitors leave between 6 and 7 a.m., they have been known to ask male guests to leave the dorm when they do. 

see CLC/page 4 
Tuesday, November 7, 2000 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Web dependency 
I never really bought into the whole "infor­

mation superhighway" hype about the Internet. 
I always thought the Internet was convenient 
and it was nice to be able to find information 
quickly and easily; I never really thought it was 
very revolutionary. 
Then the Internet went 

away and I learned just 
how much I really rely on 
the Internet. 
When the new college football Associated Press poll came out Sunday after­noon, I was lefl in the dark. I didn't know where the Irish were ranked in the latest poll and what their chances of a Bowl Championship Series were. I had no idea if my beloved Pittsburgh Steelers were winning. But losing the convenience of readily available sports information was the least of my concnrns. 
I couldn't email my parents directions to where to meet me when they come up for the Boston College game this weekend. I was effec­tively cut off from my normal means of commu­nication. 
It got even harder when I started working on Monday's Observer. The email system that lets us communicate and send stories back and forth between the two campuses was useless. Gaining even the most basic information was nearly impossible. Our weather service was cut o!T. We lost our access to national photos and graphics. Everything that made production of a newspaper easy and painless was gone. 
Getting stories back from our political reporters in Washington proved to be nearly impossible. Driving back and forth from South Dining llall to Saint Mary's (where e-mail still worked) as we tried to collect stories and pho­tos from hundreds of miles away. 
A system we rely on to make our everyday life easier was gone and we were left scram­bling to find a new system. 
When the information superhighway broke down Sunday, my life came to a screeching halt. Even finding out information concerning the network breakdown was nearly impossible. 
Want to call other colleges to learn if their networks were functioning? It's a lot harder to find a phone number without Yahoo! 
What about basic business information about Ameritech and the location of its corporate office? It's all on the Internet. 
Not until the information was gone did I real­ize how easy and convenient the Internet makes my life. The usual reliability of the Notre Dame network made it seem unthinkable that the information would even be unavailable. 
For my first two years at Notre Dame, the Internet connection was never a problem. I always had access to the news and information I needed. Now that Internet service has been restored, I just wanted to thank the workers at OIT for bringing the world back to Notre Dame. 
I am sure you all have been under a lot of stress trying to bring the network back up. Thank you for the reliable service you have provided in the past and the reliable service I am sure you will provide in the future. You make everyone's lives a lot easier. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Smithe Sam Derheimer Helena Payne Graphics Myra McGriff Dana Mangnuson Sports Production Lauren Conri Brian Kessler Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Kuri Bogaar<l Sarah Fuchs 

·11,, Ohscrvcr (USPS '599 2-4000) is published Monday ,h,ough hiday cx:up1 Juring exam .anJ vac=-:tion periods. The Observer is a member of the A!.rnCiatcd Pr("'~S. AJ] rtproduuion righH are r("'s.ervcd. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"/ think ofmy dorm as the place where I live, study and work. I'd rather go somewhere else and party." 
Meaghan Donovan Pasquerilla East sophomore 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
"/ noticed that the passion and spirit al Notre Dame was great. I wanted to do some Duke stuff here." 
Mike Brey Men's basketball coach 
"We are light years ahead of where 
we were last year now that we are global." · 
Adam Frick WVFI station manager 
"We don't think girls dorms should have different rules from guys dorms and vice versa. There should not be any discrepancies. " 
Kevin Berchou Sorin Hall senator 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Penn State 'Greens' plan to leave class to vote 
UNIVERSITY PARK. Pa. 
Some Pennsylvania State University students with a flair for the dramatic plan to walk out of classes Tuesday to cast their vote for the next president. 
The move, initiated by the local Green Party organization, the Campus Greens, is bipartisan and encourages people of all political afl1liations to leave class and head to the polls. 
Justin Leto, a student activist, plans to participate in the walkout. Leto said the goal ol' the walkout is to mobilize more students to get out and vote, and to make voting their first priority on Election Day. 
Leto feels that Election Day should be a national holiday, for the entire nation and definitely for Pennsylvania State University. 
"We live in a country where 50 per­

"People should [be able to leave) work or school to concentrate on pick­ing who is going to run the country," 

NORTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY 
Law could ease voter registration 
An amendment to the 1998 Higher Education Act should have put voter registration forms at students' fingertips, courtesy of the state. Instead, schools like Northern Illinois University were required to find their own ways to provide forms -and they did. Governor George Ryan decided not to provide the forms to colleges free of charge. Instead. they were offered other options, such as printing their own forms, buying them from a private vendor or asking county clerks to provide them. Though federal law does not require Illinois to provide the forms, the state tries to make them easier to obtain. But schools ultimately are responsible for providing reg­is tr a ti on forms to students. "If they have not requested forms from the state prior to 60 days before the election. they're subject to financial penalties from the federal government," said David Ormsby, spokesman for State Representative Lou Lang, D-Skokie. If a school requested the forms and was denied, it's not held responsible, he added. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWealher l1reci.st fer clllytime conditions and high temperJtures 

r-.....,,_,./·'··--·­
1 

Wedn 
sday Ll 
FridaY; Satur9ay 
Sun!!t.~<'~ 
Q,~,49.~Q (f 
Showers T-slorms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Via Assoc,arod Press /JraptucsNt1l 
~ a 
Pt Clovdy c~ 

Leto said. "Since Election Day is so close with Veterans Day, they could mingle the two together and tiP in that this is what vets fought for." 
At the Centre County Democratic Committee's headquarters, the feel­ings about a student walkout are mixed. 
"We certainly think voting is a grnat idea. Boycotting classes is never a good thing, although it can be fun. Sometimes it's important to make a dramatic statement." said Bob Shepherd, Centre County Gore 2000 chair. 
Shepherd, however, doesn't neces­sarily think the day should be a national holiday. 
"ft doesn't take very long to vote, and the polls arc open for 13 hours," he said. 
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Grad students seek to form union 
Should the results of April's Graduate Assistants Union election -which were sealed pending last week's National Labor Relations Board decision -be in favor of a GA union, New York University's only two options would be to bargain with the union or refuse to bargain and push the case into federal court. In the wake of the decision, which gives NYU graduate teaching assistants the green light to form union, university officials say they are deciding what their next step will be. NLBR decisions cannot be directly appealed to federal court. The only way the NYU case could be heard by a Circuit Court judge would be for the university to refuse to bargain. forc­ing the union to file a grievance with the NLRB. Should the Board determine .NYU refused to bargain, it would order the university to negotiate. If it still refused, the Board could take the University to court in an effort to compel it to bargain. NYU could also take the Board to court, asking a federal judge to review the Board's order to bargain. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 7. 
FRONTS; 


~
........... ......... 

C 2000 AccuWoather, Inc. COLO WAFIM STAIIONAHY Prnsu1t: 
®© ......
High Low Shower• R¦ ln T-alorma Flurrte• Snow lee Sunny P1. Cloudy Cloudy 
y,. Assoc,alod Press  
Atlanta  71  57  Detroit  59  48  Phoenix  66  48  
Boston  62  42  Los Angeles  62  50  St. Louis  51  42  
Chicago  48  42  Miami  86  69  San Antonio  66  57  
Dallas  52  42  Nashville  66  51  Seattle  46  42  
Denver  44  17  New York  64  46  Washingon OC  64  46  

. 

Tuesday, November 7, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC welcomes high schoolers to campus 
By ALICIA ORTIZ 
News Writer 
Searching for the right college can be difficult for anyone. Sunday's Fall Day on Campus gave interested high school stu­dents an opportunity to view all aspects of Saint Mary's and to assist them in their choice. 
"What is neat about Fall Day on Campus is so many differ­have about attending Saint Mary's. Students were free to ask current Saint Mary's stu­dents about classes, homework, and residence hall living. Parents were also encouraged to ask questions they have about the necessary steps to prepare their students for col­lege. 
Mary Nucciarone, director of financial aid, addressed con­
cerns about 
funding col­

ent depart­
"What is neat about Fall lege expens­

ments -din­es and apply­
Day on Campus is, so

ing. athletics, ing for finan­admissions, many different cial aid. 
and currents departments ... come After par­students ents and stu­
together to make this

come together dents were to make this day happen.,, treated to day happen," lunch in the said Ann Noble Family
Ann Kearns

Kearns, admis­Dining Ila!!
admissions counselor

sion counselor, 
class of '98. "That is what being part of the Saint Mary's community is all about." 
The day began at 8 a.m. with registration and breakfast. The students and their families were formally welcomed in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. Some of the morning's speakers includ­ed Mary Pat Nolan, director of Admission and Crissie Renner, student body president. 
Following the welcome, par­ents and students separated to address concerns they might 
and toured 
college build­
ings and res­idence halls, Fall Day on Campus ended in a faculty and administrator Open House. There, prospective students learned about majors available at the College. 
"[Fall Oayl has been extreme­ly helpful It has given me an idea of what Saint Mary's is all about," said Adrianne Garcia, a high school senior from New Carlisle, Ind. "The people are friendly and I would like to come here next year." 

ND prof honored for dedication 
Special ro The Observer 
James Taylor, professor of civil engineering and geological sciences at the University of Notre Dame, has received ,.the Distinguished Service to Safety Award from the National Safety Council (NSC) for his long-standing dedication and commitment to public welfare. 
The award is the highest honor bestowed on an indi­vidual by the NSC, a not­for-profit international organization dedicated to the protection of life and the promotion of health. Selected for the award by his peers, Taylor was one of 19 safety professionals to receive the honor Oct. 16 at the opening convocation of the NSC's 88th annual Congress and Expo in Orlando, Fla. 
Taylor joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1976 as chair of the department of civil engineering and was appointed associate dean of the College of Engineering in 1982. His research inter­ests include transportation, highway safety and engi­neering ethics, and he is the author or coauthor of more than 30 articles and publi­cations. Taylor has chaired three Transportation Research Board panels and worked with the U.S. Department of Transportation in the selec­tion and evaluation of University Transportation Centers. 

The recipient of numerous honors, Taylor received the 1995 Wilbur S. Smith Distinguished Transportation Educator Award; the S.S. Steinberg Outstanding Educator Award from the American Road and Transportation Builders Association; the Daniel V. Terrell Award from the District 9 Council of the American Society of Civil Engineers; and the Daniel W. Mead Prize from the American Society of Civil Engineers. 
Taylor received his bache­lor's and master's degrees from the Case Institute of Technology in 1956 and 1962. He earned his doctor­ate .in civil engineering from Ohio State University in 
1965. . 



Tuesday, November 7, 2000

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
research also experienced the computers would be up library has some print back­the students out, but fur the problems. and running on Monday, but ups. most part it's just frustrating
Internet 

"A few indi-that hasn't "We have basic things that for them," said cluster consul­
viduals came in been the we can use to get by. We do tant Xavier Guerrero.
continued from page l 

with last "Afew individuals came C a S e , " have print resources, but they Senior Jennifer Goodwillie DePalma couldn't use minute assign­Escobar take more time to use. We will be having family here fur
in with last minute 
Psychlnfo, a tool to search ments. I s a i d can usually get [the students) the Hoston College game, and
assignments. I refrred 
psychology journals, Lo du referred them bel'ure the something." said reference the inability tu use e-mail research !'or a presentation to the print them to the print indexes, problem librarian Doug Archer. made it difficult to finalize due next week. indexes, but was fixed. Computer cluster consul­plans for the weekend.
but they rely heavily on 
'Tm stuck bocause I need to they rely heavi­T h e tants received several qucs-· "They are e-mailing me on
the Internet."
use l'sychlnfo before I go to ly on the inability to tions from students about the my Yahoo account with what the library. because I can't Internet," said u s e outage, but they were unable restaurants they want to cat look through all of the jour­visiting staff Internet to provide them with any spe­at and the hotel they are stay­
Hector Escobar 
nals that they have by hand," librarian databases, cific information. ing at, but I can't get my mes­
staff librarian
said l>cPalma. Heclor however. "We hardlv ever hear what sages -it's very frustrating. 
Students who went to the Escobar. "On was not a the exact problem is (from the I'm going to have to make a library expecLing to use Sunday, the complete Office of Information lot of lung distance phone onlin{l databases to conduct students' attitude was that catastrophe because the Technologies). We try to help calls." said Good wi Ilic. 
CLC 
continued from page I 
llowever, last year the CLC discussed the issue and since then thfl hall monitors were supposed to be notified that males do not have to leave the 24-hour space when the hall monitors leave. 
"A lot of guys are intimidated to go into 24-hour space of women's residence halls because they're afraid of what's going to happen if they get yelled at by security 
monitors and they don't even  "I think every dorm needs some place that  it's like, 'abide by these rules or else,"' said  
k  n  o  w  can never be taken  Reali.  
exist," said Heali.  away.  However, for the present.  
I  f  the CLC voted  
approved  Father David Scheidler  to  pass  the  
by Student  St. Edward's Hall rector  resolution and  

Affairs, the policy will go in all the residence halls' 24­hour spaces. The policy also allows rectors to amend it if they want more specific guide­lines, but these amendments also have to approved. 
"They'll have to get the rules approved by Student Affairs and then they'll be added," Heali said. 
Members debated the neces­sity of posting the policy, but after the non-CLC student sena­tors shook their heads and glanced at each other Reali referred to her fellow senators and said, "I have to support my constituents here. The real spir­it behind this was to have something posted." 
Even after notifying hall mon­itors of the rules, Reali said, "It has been a challenge to enforce this policy." 
St. Edward's flail rector Father David Scheidler said he has noticed problems as well. 
"My experience with monitors is that they basically make up their own rules," said Scheidler. 
Dillon llall rector Father Paul Doyle said in his dorm he has not had problems with the 24­hour space besides people attempting to sleep in it. 
"I would rather not post signs anywhere, ever," said Doyle. "l try to inform residents that it's a lounge and not a lodge." 
Kirk agreed that Lhe 24-hour space is not for camping out. 
.... ~·~ • •• ',I('
~fl, .w I , , ,' .-.-,·:, 'h, 
la 

"I think that everyone knows that some couples monopolize the space by just hanging out." said Kirk. 
However, Kirk said that the 24-hour space policy would at least make it clear for the moni­tors that they must allow the space to be available to resi­dents and their guests for all 24 hours. He said that within a few years the posted policy wouldn't be necessary because everyone would be familiar with it by then. 
"The last thing I want is an 
institutionalized area where 
things are 
posted up and 
to clear up 
confusion in the use of 24-hour space among the dorms. 
"I think every dorm needs some place that can never be taken away," said Scheidler. 
In Other CLC News: 
The Service, Tenure and Promotion task forces met with Director of the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning Barbara Walvoord to discuss interaction between students and faculty. Student Body President Brian O'Donoghue said the meeting was very suc­cessful. The task force also planned a meeting with Dean of First Year Studies Eileen Kolman. 

FREE FOOD!!! 
Come to the ELECTION WATCH 2000! 
Watch the Election Results With Your Friends in LaFortu11e Starting at 8pm and· Enjoy Free Food. 

SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

SO MUCH TO C:HOOSE FROM... 
ONE SOLUTION. 
THE SUMl"lER SERVICE PROJECT 
. Devote 8 weeks to the service of 1-hose in need 
. Choose from ove.r 120 si1"es across 1-he Uni1"ed S1"a1"es 
. Earn 3 Theology Credi1"s (with possible crosslists) 
. Receive a $1900 Tui1"ion Scholarship with 1-he op1"ion for 
an additional $1000 Americorps Scholarship 
. Establish valuable contacts with No1"re Dame Alumni 
:Informational Meetings at the Center for Social Concerns: Wedr1esday, November S, 2000 7:00 PM Thur!!i,day, November 30, 2000 7:00 PM 
APPLICATIONS DUE NOVIEMBER 27, 2000 FOR STUDENTS STUDYING ABROAD THIS SPRING ANAL DEADLINE FOR ALL APPLICATIONS -FEBRUARY 7, 2001 

ATION 

Tuesday, November 7, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Queen breaks her collarbone: The Queen Mother Elizabeth broke her left collar­bone in a fall at her home, her omce said Monday. The hugely popular 100-ycar-old mother of Queen Elizabeth II was treated by doctors at Clarence Hotise, her home near Buckingham Palace, and was not hospitalized after the fall Friday afternoon, her office said. "Iler Majesty is reasonably comfortable and has canceled her engagements for the time being," said a Clarence House spokeswoman. 
Fatal bus accident in Banos: A bus plunged from a mountain cliff near a resort town in central Ecuador early Monday, killing at least 39 people and injuring 1 o, the Hed Cross said. The bus, transporling local labor­ers, plummeted 820 feet from an isolated highway into a ravine, 85 miles south of the capital. Quito. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
FDA prepares to ban PPA: The govern­ment warned Americans on Monday to quit using dozens of over-the-counter cold remedies and diet pills that contain an ingredient that could cause hemorrhagic strokes, especially in young women. The Food and Drug Administration is preparing to ban phenyl­propanolamine, or PPA, which is found in prod­ucts from Dexatrim to Triaminic. Legal steps needed for a ban will take a few months. so the FDA asked man uf'acturers Monday· to voluntari­ly stop selling PPA-containing drugs immediate­ly and replace with a safer alternative. 
Teen indicted for hostage-taking: A 
14-year-old accused of taking an eighth-grade class hostage at gunpoint last month was indicted Monday. Police say Sean Botkin walked into a Phoenix elementary school class­room Oct. 24 with a handgun and ordered everyone to the floor, holding as many as 30 pnople hostage before surrendering. No one was injured. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Indianapolis man found dead: Police are trying to identify a man found dead on Interstate 65 last weekend. The man's body was found shortly before 10:30 fm. Saturday near an overpass on the north side ol' Indianapolis. An autopsy showed he died from internal injuries. Indiana State Police Sgt. David Bursten said the man carried no identification. Investigators compared bis fin­gerprints to those on file, but found no match in local records. It was unclear whether the man sustained fatal injuries falling from the overpass or from being hit by cars. 
Market Watch 11/06 

Dow 
10,977.21 +159.26 

]ONES 
CompositeSame: Volume,
489 
NIA 

Nasdaq: 3416.21 -35.37 
S&P 500: 1432.19 +5.50 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
Ulv\CLE CORP (ORCL)  -7.8.l  -2.)7  27.94  
CISCO SYSTEMS {CSCO)  -2.87  -1.6.l  55 12  
WOl(LDCOM  INC (WCOM)  .  ,O • .lJ  t,0.6  18.06  
MICRO SOFTCORP (MSFT)  ,1.83  , 1.2~  69.50  
ERCSSON L.\1ADR (ERICY)  -10.37  -l.4J  12.JB  

YUGOSLAVIA 

Inmates protest Albanian prisons 
Associated Press 

YUGOSLAVIA 
Police stormed a state prison late Monday, trying to contain a riot that began as a hunger strike but grew out of hand as Serbian inmates burned their cells and took to rooftops demanding short­ened se·ntences and new management. 
Shouts of "Get him" and "flit him" could be heard outside the prison as police moved into the compound, minutes after guards !ired tear gas and what appeared to be warning shots to try to break up the spreading riot. Police later withdrew, but remained deployed outside the prison compound. 
The unrest in the south­ern city of Nis started as a protest in solidarity for other Serbian inmates in the northern town of Sremska Mitrovica. Those inmates began rioting late Sunday, alleging that they were beaten "like horses" and demanding they share in a proposed amnesty for ethnic Albanian prisoners from Kosovo. 
Prison Warden Miodrag Djordjevic said the prison­ers in Nis also wanted to ­be included in the amnesty and he expected justic~ 
Inmates stand on top of prison located outside of Belgrade. Starting as a hunger strike,
ministers to arrive 
the riot ignited over offlcals granting Albanian inmates amesty. 
Tuesday for talks. The riot in Sremska Mitrovica, in one of 
undisclosed location, the prisoners, complaining of In Nis, Djordjevic con­Yugoslavia's largest pris­
independent Beta news severe beatings they firmed that hundreds of ons, began late Sunday 
agency reported. Most of claimed had been taking prisoners had set fire toand spread throughout the their cells were destroyed place since 1994. their cells, ransacked thejail. Prisoners armed with in the fire, Beta said. "They used to beat us jail's offices and climbediron bars positioned them­Dragan Subasic, one of like horses," an unidenti­onto the roofs of several
selves on the rooftop of 
three Justice Ministry offi­fied prisoner with head buildings, demanding the one building. 
cial negotiating with the bandages said, looking at justice ministers meet withOfficials inside the prison inmates, said three people the camera. "People have them.
said the inmates were 
had been hospitalized with been destroyed physically, A prisoner told The 
angry that a proposed 
slight injuries suffered psychologically and moral­Associated Pres that about 
amnesty law could free 
during the riots in ly. They were left with no 1,000 inmates, includingethnic Albanian political Sremska Mitrovica, about desire to live." 300 ethnic Albanians, had
prisoners but not Serbs 
50 miles northwest of Others displayed a base­gone on a hunger strike,convicted of other crimes. 
Belgrade, the capital. ball bat allegedly used by demanding their sentencesEthnic Albanian inmates Footage shown on guards to beat inmates be reduced by 30 percent.
were evacuated from the Serbian TV showed two and chanted: "Amnesty!" .and the prison manage­
prison Monday evening 
inmates, surrounded by and "Down with the war­ment be replaced by
and taken by bus to an 
hundreds of other cheering den!" Wednesday. 

Armed robbers release hostages 
The siege began at 5:20 a.m. when ed. The standoff ended about 7:45 
Associated Press 

the gunmen apparently entered the a.m. when the rest of the employees 
LOS ANGELES store by a back door. More than 60 were freed. 
employees, many of them stocking Police believe the teen-age suspect 
Three armed robbers stormed a 
shelves for the holiday shopping jumped a wall and fled at the same
Target store before dawn Monday as workers stocked shelves for rush, were ordered to the ground, time the second group of employees 
police spokeswoman Randi Joseph was running for safety. He was foundChristmas, holding dozens hostage said. hiding in a creek bed two miles away before being captured as they tried A short time later, store security and was t1ushed out by police dogs, to escape, authorities said. 
guard Myron Jenkins called 911 police said. He was taken to a localNo shots were fired, and no one after another worker alerted him to hospital after a dog bit him on thewas injured during the 2 1/2 hour the apparent robbery in progress.· leg. The indenities of the men havesiege. 
"It was frantic," said Jenkins, who not been released.
Two men were booked for investi­was unarmed. "We couldn't do pe of connection because they hadgation on armed robbery and may much. It was out of our control." knowledge of the operations at thisface other charges, authorities said. 
About an hour after the siege store," Joseph said. 
The third alleged gunman, a teen­began, 15 people emerged from the Many of the employees' familiesager, was hospitalized after a police building and two of them, both wear­learned about the hostage takeoverdog bit him. 
ing employee clothing, were arrest-on television news. 
Tuesday, November 7, 2000 

page 6 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 
ELECTION 2000 
.,Al+ 
Students 'abroad' in DC experience elections firsthand 

By CHRISTINE KRALY Assistant Managmg Editor 
C
WASIIINGTON, DC 
athleen Jordan spends her 
Sunday mornings in a cold 
television studio. 
As a participant in Notre Dame's Semester in Washington, IJ.C., she interns three days a week. Whoo her fellow classmates back in Indiana arc sleeping in Sunday morning, Jordan is meeting peo­ple like John McCain and Jesse Jackson for NBC's "Meet the Press." 
The political talk show is wlwrn Jordan has met political celebrities and policy-makers alike and where she says she loves to work. 
Notre Dame's Washington semester currently boasts 11 participan ls, an unexpectedly low number this semester. said Peri Arnold. director of the pro­gram. The students live in an apartment owned by Boston University and shared with schools like Dartmouth, Michigan State and the University of Pennsylvania. 
The program in D.C. is a bit like night school for adults already in the workforce. Students intern Monday to Wednesday, taking some night classes starting when they return from work until 9:30 p.m. They attend one class Thursday and Fridays can be filled with day trips to museums. monu­ments and legislative ofTices. 
The pro­
(NMCP), where he works with a staff of five people. The small staff is great. he said, because he is able to perform many hands-on tasks for the organiza­tion. 
"It's the perfect way to get involved," he said. "It's the per­fect door to what I want to do." 
Fallon's office is currently working on initiatives to increase public school construc­tion funding, a project Fallon is playing an important role in. Ile is due to submit a report at the end of the month regarding funding research and meetings on the NAACP's progress in gaining support of the project. 
When the Bill Clinton-Monica Lewinsky scandal occurred, Washington interns instantly gained a bad reputation. Notre Dame students. though, are working at a scandal-free time and have only positive things to say about interning in the nation's capital. 
And although he had heard that working for a congressman would be difficult and monoto­nous, junior Bill Fusz has had no problems adjusting to life as a congressional intern. 
"The Hill is where the action is," said Fusz, who works in Congressman Paul Gillmor's (R­OI I} olTice. 
In an ollice about the size of a regular O'Shaughnessy class­room, Fusz works with Gillmor's legislative aides on mostly con­stituent issues. 
He mainly helps in responding to constituent concerns, espe­cially with 


gram format is "perfect,"  "It's the perfect way to  questionnaires that the office  
said junior Tim Fallon, because it allows stu­ get involved. It's the perfect door to do what I want to do."  has been orga­nizing since July. With the office's small  
dents  the  staff the gov­ 
chance to enjoy real work expe­ Tim Fallon junior  ernment major says he feels very connected  
rience while  lo the people he  
still studying  works with and  

and exploring Washington. with the politics occurring 
"The internship is amazing," around him. Hearing firsthand Jordan said, mostly because of accounts of the Firestone tire the people she works with and recall case from aides who the responsibilities she has in attended the hearings was espe­the show's ollice. cially exciting, he added. But 
lier bosses and colleagues whp,rc his job is really impor­"trust me," she said, which is tant, he said, is with connecting very important for a student with the people of Gillmor's dis­working in the fast-paced city of trict. Washington. "It's just neat seeing what 
"When I first got here, I was issues people care about and really nervous," Fallon said. why," he said. Learning Washington lingo and He's getting "a really good policies ''took some getting used view at what really matters, to," but after a few months in which is constituents." He enjoys the city, he said, he became attending congressional hear­comfortable with the city and fell ings and getting a "broad-based" in love with his job. look at how laws are affecting 
Fallon is an intern in the everyday people. "I didn't realize Washington bureau office of the how much congressmen really National Association for the do for the people back home," Advancement or Colored People he added. 

Get election results Wednesday at http://www.nd.edu/Nobserver. 
The connection between Washington's big-city politics and how they affect the American public is something many Notre Dame students arc learning this semester. 
"l see on a daily basis how local and national issues con­geal," said Kate Caballero, a junior interning for Congressman Jim Davis (D-FL). 
As the sole intern in the con­gressional office, Caballero is given greater responsibilities than possibly someone working with several other interns. 
She conducts bill initiative research and attends weekly staff meetings where, she said, "my opinion counts." Caballero said Davis doesn't propose many bills, so her participation in their development is especially impor­tant.• 
And while meeting people like Bill Clinton and Democratic presidential ticket Al Gore and Joe Lieberman is a perk to her job, Caballero's favorite part of her job is the help she's getting in developing her future political goals. 
Fallon said participating in the 
D.C. program has also helpPd sharpen his focus on his future. 
Some of the students. in fact, are hoping their stints as Notre Dame interns in D.C. will lead them to positions as Notre Dame alumni in D.C. 
For William Nordwind, '89, working for his hometown con­
gressman was an offer he couldn't refuse. 
The government and intrrna­tional studies graduate settled into an aide position in Congressman Fred Upton's (O­M!) office al'ter a few years of working with another congress­woman. When a position opened to work for his home state rep­resentative, he said he couldn't pass it up. 
He said he enjoys his position working in a fast-paced city like Washington while remaining "plugged to the home fires" of his native Michigan. 
For Caballero, too, the flames of the "home fires" burn too bright to resist. 
The junior government major is interning with Democratic Congressman Jim Davis who serves Florida's Tampa area dis­trict. where Caballero lives. She says she relishes the chance to work with people concerned with her hometown issues. 
"[ would love to be a congress­woman one day," she added, noting that working in Davis' office has done wonders in developing her ambition. 
"!Davis] has done a lot for me," said Caballero who said the congressman is very open to helping with her political future. 
"Notre Dame gave me an excellent grounding to do this job," said Ted Brennan, press secretary and legislative director for Congressman Cass Ballenger (R-NC). 

His Notre Dame education, he said, was a "pretty good foun­dation" for working in Washington, D.C., and prepared him for a future political career of his own. 
Brennan hopes to one day run for local office or a representa­tive position and likens his job to "basic training in the mili­tary," preparing him for the leadership responsibilities he wants to one day hold. 
And although, he said "you're never going to be rich in public service," his job is rewarding in many other ways, such as knowing more about what's happening in Congress than most journalists reporting its news. 
"With electronic n111dia, things move so fast around here. You can live and die by the minute," Brennan said, noting that the congressman's office received nearly 1,400 constituent e-mails this past weekend. 
Jordan, who wants to be a broadcast journalist upon grad­uation, says working for NBC has taught her "the ins and outs of putting a television show together." She said the bchind­the-scenes experience has helped her realize the high­intensity and stress behind national television. 
She said her experience in the program has strengthened her desire to join the field. 
Tuesday, November 7, 2000 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 Page 7 

Bishops release stateIDent about role of Church in politics 
By ANNE MARJE MATTINGLY  and world peace for the con­ference. "Our faith has some­ er the Church's constant life ethic when deciding which can­ important question is not, 'Are you better off that you were  than others to contribute to public debate," he said. "What  
News £ditor  thing to say about all our lives,  didate to support. That ethic  four years ago,"' he said. "It's  this document is doing is ask­ 
including our  includes the  'Are we all better off? Are the  ing Catholics to form a commu­ 
WASHINGTON, DC  public choic­ Church's  poor better off" Are unborn  nity of conscience in the larger  
In  an  effort to  clarify the  es."'  "It's a reflection of  opposition to  children better off"' It's not  community."  
responsibilities or Catholics in modern American politics, the National Conference of Catholic;  This year's statement does have a  American values where believers in religious  abortion, the death penal­ty and  just the economy." Carr believes the document elucidates the importance of  The Church has put forth extra effort this year to make sure that American Catholics  
Bishops issued  a  statement  new  focus,  institutions have the  euthanasia  faith and personal beliefs in  are made aware the document  
entitled "Faithful Citizenship: Civic Responsibility for a New  however. "!The  new  same rights ... "  as well as its support for  the political arena. "les a reflection of American  exists for their consultation. In addition to its publication on  
Millenium" last September.  document  programs  values where believers in reli­ the  Internet,  Faithful  
This statement does not repre•  emphasizes  John Carr  that  aid  gious institutions have the  Citizenship is available in print  
sent a new step for the Church, which has issued statements regarding political responsibili­ that! citizen­ship is a virtue, that  director of social development and wortd peape  America's poorest citi­-zens.  same rights ­no more, no less than others -to contribute to public debate," he said.  and on video. Each Catholic parish received a kit containing these materials from the  
ty for every presidential elec­ participation  In light of  Carr believes the document  National Council last spring,  
tion since the 1970s.  is  an  obliga­ t  h  e  s  e  elucidates the importance of  said Carr.  
"We believe that politics is  tion," said Carr. "It calls people  considerations, the presidential  faith and personal beliefs in  Faithful Citizenship was writ­ 
enriched, that pluralism is  to more, not less. involvement  candidates are focusing on the  the political arena.  ten  by the National Council  
enhanced when people bring  in public life in order to over­ wrong question when asking  "It's a reflection of American  without direct input from the  
their deepest convictions into  come the cynicism of our day."  citizens for their votes, said  values where believers in reli­ Vatican, but it is in agreement  
public life," said John Carr.  In that spirit, the document  Carr.  gious institutions have the  with all formal teachings of the  
director of social development  encourages Catholics to consid­ "For  believers.  the  most  same rights,  no  more no less,  Church.  

Voting 
continued from page 1 
who did not vote this year. "It's too much of a hassle for me when it's not going to change anything." 
Although his objections are main­ly with the Electoral College. which determines the presidential elec­tion, Lambrecht did not vote in any of the other races being decided in his home state of Minnesota this year. 
'Tm not knowledgeable about state and city [candidates!." he said. 
People in this age group may also feel that it does not matter who is in office. 
'Tm in college, so it's not really going to affect me," said Wilkerson. "I don't think either candidate will really accomplish anything." 
Wilkerson added that his decision not to vote applies only to this elec­tion. 
Of course. there are members of Wilkerson and Lambrecht's age group that believe it is important to vote in all elections. 
The people in the White House do affect the lives of college students. according to senior Megan Conlon. She is currently taking a design class taught by visiting assistant art professor Robert Sedlack that cre­ated posters and buttons to encour­age Notre Dame students to vote. 
"People simply don't think their votes are going to matter in the long run," Conlon said. "Every vote does matter, and certainly as a group, our vote matters ... We all need to be active as an age group in the political process." 
"I think people here are really excited because it's the lirsl t1lec­tion anyone here can vote in," said senior Jeni Harms, academic divi­sion head of Notre Dame student government. "Part or being a responsible citizen is voting ... It's a duty." 
Harms said that some students find getting an absentee ballot to be a hassle. 
Project 
continued from page 1 
"political family." 

·In 1996, only 32 percent of young American adults bothered to vote. Among the general population, voter turnout was 50 percent. 
"We have the worst voter turnout," said senior Megan Conlon. one of Sedlack's students. "I think t_hat prob­lem needs to be taken seriously." 
So Sedlack and his class created a project to address the issue. 
The first phase of the project involved creating a poster. Students created sev­eral designs, and then the class cri­tiqued each one -along with graduate graphic design students and non-art or design majors from student govern­ment. 
The poster the group selected to print and display around campus reads. "68% of 18 to 24 year olds do not vote in their federal elections. 68% of this poster is a WASTE OF SPACE. What win you be this year on Tuesday, November 7th'? Fill the void." 
With the help of Adworks, Notre Dame's student advertising agency, the class printed and hung over 200 posters around campus. 
With the large amount of white space on the poster, some people have found room to write messages of their own oh the posters. 
"We know it's getting attention when it's getting graffiti," Sedlack said. 
to the class's own Web site that has additional voter information. 
The class also designed ads to appear in The Observer. The project received free ad space from newspaper, as well as funding from the College Republicans and College Democrats, though Sedlack stressed that it was a non-partisan cam­
paign. 

In addition to "We have the worst voter 
posters, the class decided to incorpo­rate other elements into their project as well. 
Students designed three different but­tons and produced 200 of them. The class distributed the 
turnout. I think that problem needs to be taken seriously. " 
Megan Conlon senior 

pins to other students who promised to display them on clothing or backpacks. 
The class also designed table tents to be displayed this week in the dining halls. Adworks helped the class to actu­ally distribute these tents. 
In addition, the class designed a graphic for the homepage of Notre Dame's Web site. The site offers a link 
While he wants the posters send a message to the entire Notre Dame student body, Sedlack said the pro­ject also gave his stu­dents a chance to see how their designs can play an influential role in informing the public. 
"I hoped that it even moved just one per­son," Conlon said. She 
added that she hopes getting her peers to vote now will get them in the habit of voting, so they will continue to do so throughout their lives. 
"You've got a say. You can affect the outcome of elections," said Sedlack. "Ignorance and apathy are not the answer." 
8%oftllto2tl

potvole1nlhelr
ions. 


www.nd.lldu/-8'9e2/vote.htmlFill the Void 
Vote on November 7 2000 
Students in a Notre dame graphic design class participated in a project to encourage college-age adults to vote. In 1996, only 32 percent of 18 to 24-year olds voted, while 50 percent of the general population turned out. 
Go vote! , 
--~ ------­
page 8 The Observer . ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 7, 2000 



•
Olll 

• 


• 
I 

• • 

I 

• 
It really is that easy. Free, too. 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
OTHE BSERVER 
onliJJLe classifieds 

Tuesday, November 7, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ENGLAND 
Doctors perfornt surgery to separate conjoined twins 
. Surgeons expect one twin to die during operation 
Associated Press 
could allow Jodie to have a nor­mal life, but that Mary cannot survive once she is separated from Jodie's aorta. 
If not separated, doctors said, both girls would die within months. 

ents, said Monday they would not be issuing a statement. 
The official solicitor's office, which represents children's interests in court. had provided legal representation for both children. 
In Monday's operation, sur­geons were expected to begin by exploring the twins' anato­my, according to testimony to the Court of Appeal. The sepa­ration process would start with the pelvic bones and then go to 

"Finally and eventually we have a major blood vessel, which is the continuation of Jodie's aorta, which is bringing blood across to Mary, It would need separating, dividing. It is at that point that we would 
LONDON 

Surgeons operated Monday tu separate conjoined twin girls in a long and complex procedure that doctors said would kill one baby Lo give her sister a chance of a normal lifo. The operation followed months of legal wran­gling over whether the parents could refuse surgery and let nature take its course. 
St. Mary's Hospital in Manchester confirmed early Monday that the operation ­involving some 20 staff mem­bers -had begun and was expected to take up to 15 hours. The hospital said no details about the surgery's out­come would be released until lunchtime Tuesday. 
The girls, identified publicly only as "Mary" and "Jodie," were born at the hospital on Aug. 8 joined at the lower abdomen. Doctors say surgery 
The twins' parents -identi­fied only as Roman Catholics from the Maltese island of' Gozo in the Mediterranean ­opposed the operation for reli­gious reasons but decided not to contest a Sept. 22 decision by the Court of Appeal that the girls can be separated. 
The court had struggled with the issue of whether the surgery would amount to inten­tionally killing Mary, whose heart and lungs cannot sustain life. Two medical specialists appointed by the court endorsed surge_ry. 
"The sad fact is that Mary lives on borrowed time, all of it borrowed from her sister," Lord Justice Alan Ward said in the Court of Appeal ruling. "She is incapable of independent existence. She is designated for death." 
Pannone and Partners, the law firm representing the par-

On Friday, judges rejected a last-minute appeal by the Pro­Life Alliance, an anti-abortion group that wanted the case to be decided in the !louse of Lords. 
The Times of London report­ed that the Maltese Pediatric Association had urged British doctors to delay the operation, saying it violated common prac­tice that parents of severely disabled babies were given the linal say over treatment. 
"In this case the parents have clearly expressed the wish that nature be left to take its course," it was quoted as say­ing. 
News reports said the parents have agreed to give a paid interview to Granada TV and will use the money to care for Jodie as she undergoes further treatment. It was not disclosed how much they reportedly will be paid. 
the spines, where the twins expect that Mary would then were joined. die," the court's judgment said. 
THE 28th ANNUAL 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Madrigal Dinners 
Fri. & Sat., Dec. 1 & 2 at 7 pm Sun., Dec. 3 at 2 & 7 pm Regina North Lounge 
Madrigal singers from the Saint Mary's College choirs, along with 
-1±1­
period instruments,jugglers, a jester and a Master ofthe House entertain 
SAINT 

MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 




rr=====--======================-=si11 
~ 


BE INFORMED 

RECS PORTS-NEWS 
(LISTSERV) 
PROVIDING INFORMATION ABOUT: INTRAMURAL PROGRAMS FITNESS CLASSES INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAMS CLUB SPORTS SPECIAL EVENTS RECREATIONAL FACILITIES 


,,­ ;· -·  
AC  ervice program featuring three pillars:  
Master  ommunitflife, and spiritual development.  
To find  op by 109 Badin Hall or call us at 1-7052.  

SUBSCRIBE AT THE RecSports WEB SITE: 
www.nd.edu/rvrecsport 

Pl 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
page l 0 BSERVER Tuesday, November 7, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
!'.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 465">6 024 Sou,h Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CttllF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EOITOK BUSINESS MANAGER 
Nor<:en Gillespie Tim Lane 
A~T. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGFR 
Chrisciru: Kraly Bri,m Kes.l~r 
NEWS [OITOR: Anne Marie Matcingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Lila Haughey SroRTS EDITOR; Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR, Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Eli1..1be1h Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER; Pac Pcccrs AD DESIGN MANAGER, Chrts Avala SYSTEMS APMINIHRATOR, Mik,· Gunvill~ WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Adam Turner CONTROi LEI!: Bob Woods GRAPHIC.~ EDITOR: Jose Cudlar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICF MANAGPR/GF.NERAI. INFO .. ... .. .631-7471 FAx................................., ...................... 631-6927 Al)YERTJSJNG...................................,.631-690018840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIH......................................631-4542 MANAGING [DJTOR/AssT. ME...................631-4541 BUSINESS OrncE........................................631-531., NEWS...................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 obscrver.viewpoinr. !@nd.edu SroRTS ........................................................ 631-4543 observer.sports.!@nd.edu 
SCF.NE ............... ......................................631-4 540 
observer.scenc. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS... .............................631-4324 
observcr.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO................... ....................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB A[)MINISTRATORS .... ............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus m-ws, sports, fe-Jtures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-c'hc 
movies/music for 
mmutc forecuts 
weekly studmc reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and ra1e, of print ads 
cial cunpu.s coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
arcides published afccr 
co meet che editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the indepcndenr, daily newspaper published in pnni and onlirn: by the scudents of1hc U11iversicy of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edicorial concenc, mcluding advertisements, is no! governed hy policies of the administration of either instin,cion. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advcmscmcms based on comcm. 
The news ts rcponed as acrnrardy and ubjeccively as possihle. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhc majoriry ofche Edicor in Chief, Managing Editor, As,istant Managing Edicor and department cdaors. Commelllaries, letters and columns present clie views ofthe authors and 1101 necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vi.-wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough lcm:rs is encouraged. Letters IO the Editor must be signed and must include contJCC information. 
Q,1,,1wm rtgardi11g Ob,,n,rrJ•olida sho11/d I,, dircrl­,d10 Editor m Cl,ufMik, <..imnufly. 

Abolish Electoral College 
With one of the closest presidenlial elec;tions in history com­ing to a close today. there is a chance a candidate who wins the popular vole will lose the Electoral College. The EleGtoral College is an outdated system that reduces the presidential election to a struggle for a few battleground states while most of the country is ignored by the candidates. 
When the United States adopted the Constitution in 1789. Americans could not travel and communi­cate nearly as quickly a.,; we do today. Th Voters of the J700s and 1800s did not have 
Ooserver 

Amerkan. Today. it is more important that each person's vote is of equal value. 
Under the present system. each citizen's v.otc is worth a dif­ferent fraction or an electoral vote based on the state's number of electoral votes and voter turnout. Every man and woman should cast a vote ofequal worth. A vote in one state should not count more than a vote in another state. 
In states such as Maine where the electoral votes are divided between the winner ancl loser. a vote for the candidate who docs not 
the access to the candidates necessary to carry the state still could translate to some cast an informed ballot for president. Given value in the Electoral. College. In other states, these circumstances. it was a wise choice the losing candidate receives none of the .
Editorial

on the part of the men who wrote the Constitution to provide for the election of trusted representatives who could learn about the candidates and cast a well-advised electoral vote for their states. 
But in modern America. the limitations that originally made the Electoral College a necessity no longer exist. With the development of airplanes, television and the Internet. each citi­zen now has an ample opportunity to familiarize himself or herself with the personalities and positions of the candidates. With this information. citizens no longer need to depend on electors to make this decision for them. 
Concerns about the right of each state to equal representa­tion in the electoral process are no longer relevant in modern 
Electoral College votes no matter how close 
the election might have been. 
The Constitution gives the state legislatures the power to determine the rules governing the Electors from each state. There can be 50 dilTerent sots of rules for electing a president. A national election should have a national set ofrules. 
There ls no longer any reason for America to continue to choose it-; President through an Electoral College. Instead, the basic rules of equality dictate that each citizen·s vote should be of equal value. This can only be achieved through direct popu­lar election of the President. The United States should elimi­nate the Electoral College and allow the people to directly choose their leader. 
Keeping your computer happy 
f'm not going to lie to you. Underneath this saucy facade lies the brain of a com­puter genius. I can reconfigure your hard drive in just a couple of hours. I'll install an entirely new network for you in a day. And as an added bonus, I'll even Molly teach you how to 
Strzelecki 
play Free Cell. 

Ok, so that is a lie. I have very little to Growing Up to no knowledge of Be a Kid computers. Compute.rs and I, well, we are not one. And I am OK with that. I have mastered e-mail (though I do not get this "sending attachments" thing; it's cut and paste all the way). I know how to surf the web, and I know how to use all sorts of word processing pro­grams for typing papers. So I guess I'm not completely illiterate, computer-wise. But I'm pretty sure some of the three and four-year-olds I know understand the inner workings of most Macs and PCs better than I ever will. 
I question whether or not this is a good thing. however. I've noticed that home computers these days are comparable to what cable television was when I was growing up. Time in front of it was limit­ed, lest I ruin my eyes and my brain turn to mush, according to my parents. There is something about today's Internet, and comput!>rs in general, that. like cable television. sucks us in, keeping us indoors like vampires hiding from sun­light. Unless. or course, you have a laptop that can give you limited mobility to say, check stock market prices at the beach. 
The age ofinfo technology astounds me, really. Who came up with this stuff! We know Al Gore didn't and Bill Gates only sc'lls it, so I'm going with a Big Bang Theory. It had to have been that one day a dude was sitting at his computer and BANG! his computer slapped him upside the head and yelled, "Use me for some­thing other than typing papers and bal­ancing your checkbook!" Or something to that extent. Hence. the world is now con­nected through phone wires, modems. networks and all that otherstuIT. And it lets us into a variable world or all sorts of stuff. 
Frankly, I do not need half the sites and "stulf' that the Internet has to offer. Does that stop me, though, from wasting hours on I-lotmail when l should be read­ing Shakespeare? or course not. Just like l didn't stop myself from watching the show Double Dare when I should have been memorizing the Act of Contrition. 
If I had to choose between television and 500 cable channels and the Internet and five million websites, I would choose television. Because I know how to work it. I even know how to program a VCH! With computers, it is another story. I think my lack of loving for the digital age stems from a deep-rooted !ear of those kevboards and hard drives and monitors that tend 1.o go ha)'Wirc on me at the most inopportune moments. Usually the moments involve a very long paper due in four hours that for some reason has been saved neither on disk nor hard drive. I cannot explain it and frankly, I am not going to try. 
I have, however, found a couple of tricks that seem to work. which I will be happy to pass on. If you, too, suffer from computer No-I low, try these helpful hints and see what happens. though I'm not going to guarantee you anything: 
. Whaternr you do, do not hit or slap the computer in any way, shape or form. I've found things will start flashing all over the monitor. which is a sign your computer is getting very angry and that is never a good thing. 

. 
Speak words or kindness to your computei:-, as you would to your grand­mother. I've found this works wonders for getting the mouse to unfreeze as well as puts the computer in a most helpful mood. 

. 
Never neglect the printer. It needs words of kindness as well and trust me. it will act up just as much. if not more. than the computer. Treat them as your parents treated you and your siblings: with equal love and attention (1wcn if they did like you better than the otlrnr ones). 

. 
Everyone likes treats and computers arc no exceptions. Bring your computer a new treat, whether it is a faster con­nection or a new batch of cloths to wipe the dust off with. Maybe if you brought brownif\S that would make your comput­er oblige. I've found it works with some of my friends. 


The most important advice I can give you as to dealing with a computer is to be patient. Be nice. If you don't get it, that is OK. It is neither here nor t!wn~ who, what. when>, whv. when or how computers op<'rate, w1; just n1wd to be on tbe alert for when they go berserk with 15 page papers and try and take over the world. As for me, J'm going to watch You Can't Do That On Television. 
Molly Strzelecki is a senior writng major at Saint .'vlar!J's College. She can be e-mailed at strz7359@saintmarys. Pdu. lier column appears every other Tuesday. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and rwt neces­sarily those <fThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
DILBERT 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Technological progress has merely provided us with more efficient means for going backwards." 
Aldous Huxley author 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Tuesday, November 7, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
Working for service after graduation 
On the eve of Oct. 26, The Young Leaders of Old Saint Patrick's Church in Chicago held lhcir fourth annual fall dinner and award presentation. The group was indeed, 
Brittany

diverse. 
Morehouse

Among the 
invited guests were 1 . All /\b
educators of l s · · out 
/\nlhropolgy

aI' ages, well-known entrepre­neurs, successful figures in the business world, communitv leaders from the local and. national levels. representatives of the religious order and eager students. The gathering was in honor of the "2000 Young Leader Award Recipient for Exemplary Leadership in Chicago." The young man acclaimed as this year's model for leadership is Patrick G. Byan Jr., Founder and President of the Inner-City Teaching Corps (ICTC); an urban teaching pro­gram similar to the Peace Corps. 
One by one, representatives of the Leadership Council approached the podium and proceeded to rellect on the award and on Patrick. He received acclaims for his integri­ty, accolades for his accomplish­ments, adulation for his heart and approbation for his guts. One friend noted how effortless­ly Patrick managed Jo integrate all of his disparate interests into his life so that not one cause in which he believed had to wait its turn. She added that in addition. through it all Patrick kept in touch -with everyone. He never forgot a name or a face. 
. One woukl think after hearing this endless list of praises that here was a man who. must real­ize his exceptional qualities and thus. must have a slight ego. Yet, when he stepped to the microphone to accept the av\·ard. Patrick stood comfort­ably in the front of the room and after expressing gratitude began his speech that assured his audi­ence this award was not about him. "Don't mistake the match for the lire," he said. 
Patrick's words quickly changed the lone of the night. Patrick was able to deftly redi­rect the spotlight from him self onto the current teachers of the ICTC program who quietly but proudly sat in the back wearing symbolic green carnations. Patrick's passionate pleas for better education in America echoed through the room caus­ing many eyes to brim with tears. He declared that "parents should not have to pretend to live in another city just so that they can provide quality educa­tion for their children." 
Patrick then proliled one spe­cific teacher by way of showing how much these young people sacri!ice when they join the ICTC. He added that onlv one out of every six applican.ts is accepted into lhe program. And 96 pPrcent of the tPachers an' from the most elite schools in the nation, such as Notre Dame. Harvard. Yale and Princeton. Given these figures, Patrick said. "many outsiders pose the ulti­mate question ... why?" 
"\,Vhy are the most intelligent students f'rom the best schools choosing to commit two years of their lives to service, earning only $5 a day plus room and board?" Patrick asked. Certainly for the first year. the rewards arc few and the chal­lenges are many but graduating students slilljump at the chance to teach. 
This is a ques­tion that seems all too familiar to a large group of seniors at ~otre Dame. 
When a  
degree is  
that much  
rnon~  
expensive  
compared  
to the  
average  
university  
it is natur­ 
al to want  
to make it  
"worth­ 
while" in  
terms of  
capital- 
ism's  
stan­ 
dards. The mere  ...-,_  
thought  
of pro­ 
nouncing  
to family members  - •  
one's  -­ 
desire to  - 
do service  
after hav­ 
ing just spent $100,000 in  ___,­-- 
cducation is  
enough to  
chase a stu­ 

dent straight to the hands of big business­es in Chicago where most ND graduates flock together to embark on a fifth year of Notre Dame. 
Still. though the call seems tough, there are many that confidently march forward on the path of service, never looking back. Those who pursue the Alliance for Catholic Education are prime examples. 
Similar in structure to !Cl'C, ACE. is in the words of senior Tara Mahnesmith "just awe­some." Tara has worked for thn otnce for two years now and over time developed the utmost respect for its people. "These people are some of the most amazing you will ever meet," she says. Tara was so decided on ACE that she spent her fall break visiting one of'the sites, shadowing one of its teachers. Tara returned with an even greater appreciation for the pro­gram. She is certain that not only do the teachers make an impact in a way that will change children's lives, but thev also find their own lives forever enhanced. 

Service after college just might be the best thing you'll ever do. What better time to sacrifice 
monetary privileges than right after college when we are all used to living at college pov.erty level? Don't rush the corporate world, sooner or later you'll get tired of it. Service in the 
form of teaching is even better. Our future is still behind 
the doors of grade schools and that will never change. 
As for freshmen, sophomores and juniors, this phi­
losophy applies to you too. Don't ever think you 
are too busy for service. One of my favorite 
classes was "Confronting Homelessness in 
_ American 
r 
Society" taught by Professor Ben Giamo. No 
, 
amount of book --reading could _ 
replace the lessons I learned from the experimen­tial portion of the course. In 
fact, in my opin­ion "Confronting Homelessness" 
should be a 
-required part of the curriculum. just like Theology 
and Philosophy. Indeed, as Patrick's adopted motto for ICTC states "You can't just talk the talk; you must also walk the walk" Patrick has, and continues to set the pace. 
Patrick C. Ryan Jr. is the eldest brother ofBrittauy's 
biggest buddy,junior Corbett Ryan ofKeough Hall. Brittany Morehouse is a senior majoring in American studies and anthro­pology. She is open to all post graduation offers and ifanyone is interested in her services, she may be reached at Morehouse.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Congratulating Mr. Notre Dame 
Last Thursday, between 800 and 1,000 students attended the first ever Mr. Notre Dame pageant. The winner, freshman Ryan Crochet of Keenan Hall. put on a show for the ages. His talent was a Chippendale-style dance to the Divinyls "I Touch Myself' that had the audience on their feet both cheering and laughing at the same time. By the end of it. he was in black tights and a red bow-tie. Let me not forget one important fac­tor; he's about 300 pounds. The other finalists were quite good, but the night was stolen by Big Ryan as he charmed the ladies during the question and answer section. We've anxious­ly awaited The Observer's take on the pageant, but since no article as of yet has been printed, we at Keenan Hall would like to give him some well-deserved press. Congratulations to the big fella and we can't wait for a repeat performance next year. 
Andrew Warner 
freshman Keenan Hall November 6, 2000 

(ib'frJ}~ 


­ 

---~ • 
-~ ~ 
\
-
-
] 
---;;, 
=­

Allowing for successful concerts 
The Executive Members of the Student Union Board would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone involved with the Guster concert this weekend. 
Our sincerest thanks goes out to the band, the crew. the stu­dents and fans who made for a sold-out show and especially the members of the Student Union Board without whose help it would never have beon possible. · 
With everyone's help, we will continue to program quality shows for the future. We hope to see you there. 
Becky Hagelin Liz Efta Dave Clark Katie Leicht Candis Wilkinson Student Union Board Executive members November 6, 2000 

CONCERT REVIEW 

Guster thrills Irish crowd with quality rock show 
ly unique and very real. If there were any doubts to this Hosenworcel is simply 
By LISA BRUNO 

latter quality, they should have been squashed by the amazing, and this Scene Music Critic 
fact that Guster had two Notre Dame students, Kevin becomes wonderfully Been and Mike Murphy, play violin and tuba during obvious live. When lis­To have a great concert, a couple of things arc need­"Window" and "Bury Mc." tening to a Guster ed. Obviously a great band that plays amazing live music This is a typical taste of who Guster is. a band that recording, Hoscnworcel is at the cor<' of what's required. But sometimes you get appreciates its fans, a band that not only reads but and his bongos offer a lucky, and not only do you get that, but you get a band replies to e-mails. great backdrop, but it is that is completely unique and the real thing -not a As Guster's fan base steadily increases and it opens no indication of what mass-produced, choreographed, accessorizcd bunch. for musical giants like Barcnakcd Ladies and Dave musical wizardry is A great concert happened at Notre Dame Friday night Matthews Band, one might fear that Adam Gardner, going on. Seeing him with the performance of the Massachusetts-based trio, Ryan Miller and Brian Rosenworcel might get swept perform live reveals the Guster. They arc simply a great band live, apt to away into the spotlight never to return again. absolutely astonishing impress both longtime fans and first-timers. But that is decidedly not the case. As Gardner pointed effort he puts forth with But that's not all thPre is to Guster. It is also complete-out before the show, playing bigger venues with large each song. From 
bands is the next behind a number of practical step. bongos and other pcr­Guster has had a c u ssion devices gradual and consis­Hosenworcel does liter­tent build since its ally thunder through first release. each performance. Parachute. which With hands thick and dropped in 1994. worn from years of 
Still the bovs arc playing, he confidently kPeping their"heads drives through the above it all, recog­songs and does what nizing the impor­arguably sets Guster tance of their fan apart from so many base and keeping other bands. 
Set List 
November 3, 2000 Notre Dame -Stepan Center 
What You Wish For llappicr X-Hay Eyes Airport Song California Dream in' Window Either Way Center of Attention Bury Me Parachute I Spy Great Escape Barrel of a Gun All the Way Up to IlcuLVen Demons 


those fans as a top Despite the rough acoustics that the Stepan Center priority. o!Ters (shouldn't we be embarrassed to offer this venuP 
To be a fan of a to a band? It's like offering an artist a space in the Guster album or garage to display his latest works). Guster still shirrnd. song is one thing, to As is standard, fans longed for songs l'rom Parachute. see them live adds a but were only given two songs from the album and a completely different tease of "I lappy Frappy." When questioned about this, element to the . Gardner explained that Parachute is a snapshot of th1\ intrigue. Gardner past, of a younger Guster, and that it has since devel­and Miller jam on oped musically. their guitars and With a thundering opening of "What You Wish For." their voices come Guster effortlessly rolled through 15 songs displaying its through clear. But growth as a band. When "Demons" ended the show, it the presence of seemed too soon for the band to leave. But when it did. Brian "Thundergod" a satisfied crowd remained, wondering only how long it Rosenworcel is would be until Guster would return. 
SARAH FUCHS/ The Observer enough to cause Guster will be on the road until December, wlrnn tlwn Notre Dame student, Mike Murphy, accompanies Guster on stage during its concert at pause to any music it will take a leave of absence to write more music; April the Stepan Center. Later that night, the band was seen partying at Turtle Creek. fan. will sec Guler back on the road for a month long tour. 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Rock giants U2 continue to grow after 10 albums 
By JOHN HEIECK Scene Music Critic  perfect its sound. But it appears now that All That You Can't Leave 13ehind may be U2's last  greatly helped. ''I've found my voice again," Bono has been quoted saying.  Close)," on Pop. it was "If God Will Send llis Angels." On All That You Can't Leave Behind,  is the last call for U2. If that is the case, better get your tickets as soon as they are available for  
hurrah.  That is no more evident than  this song is "Walk On."  U2's next, and probably last,  
The  new  album. Long lines  Driven by Clayton and Mullen  on the soulful "In A Little While,"  "Walk On," like its predeces­ tour.  
outside of' record stores at mid­ Jr. 's distinct rhythmic combina­ in which Bono melodically bel­ sors, demonstrates why U2 has  Humors are circulating that U2  
nighL Screaming fans. B.ock 'n'  tion, The Edge's haunting guitar  lows. "In  a  little while/ Surely  remained the world's largest and  will tour the U.S. in the spring,  
Holl. No, these phrenzied-fans  personality. and the most inti­ you'll  be  mine/  In  a  little  most  enduring  rock  band.  Europe in the summer, and then  
are not for Limp Bizkit or The  mate lyrics Bono has ever writ­ while... 1'11 be there/ In  a little  "Home ... hard to know what it is  return to the U.S. in the fall.  
Backstreet  Boys  or  Britney  ten, All That You Can't Leave  while/ This hurt will hurt no  if you've never had one/ llome...  Unlike the ZooTV or Popmart  
Spears. They're U2 fans.  Behind begins with the already  more/ I'll be home, love."  I can't say where it is but I know  tours, U2's next tour will be a  
OK.  so  it's not exactly the  radio-friendly "Beautiful Day"  The Edge, like Bono. is also  I'm going/ Walk on, walk on." In  stripped-down version of' any­ 
Grammy-winning Joshua Tree,  and ends with the soulfully tran­ responsible for some of the most  essence, "Walk On" sings of a  thing U2 fans have seen in the  
but All That You Can't Leave  qui I "Grace."  moving moments  band that has already conquered  last 10 years. Although the glitz  
Behind. U2's 10th studio album, is the most anticipated U2 album since Achtung Baby, the follow­ Left in between is a kaleidoscope  The album ... is also the most mature  on All You Can't Leave Behind. The Edge, named for  the world and is now ready to walk away from it all. The entire album is littered  and glamour will be gone from the stage, U2's goal, through its seemingly inlinite music catalog,  
up to the Joshua Tree. And for good reason. Humors began circling early this year about a now U2 album.  of emotions of four hip, mid­dle-aged rock stars .i ust try- sounding album U2 has ever made.  his distinct echo guitar style, copi­ously decorates the album with  with such sentiments, sentiments that have lead to tl'!e rumors that All That You Can't Leave Behind  will be one of filevation. Guaranteed the best show in town.  
First of all, U2, known for its last  ing to catch a  unique guitar solos  
 
minute-cramming in the record­ing studio, wrote the majority of the album bc•forn even stepping  ride home. "Elevation," reminiscent of the Tokyo club scene Bono is so fond  and transcendent keyboard sounds. The most notable exam­ple of The Edge's pristine guitar  All That You Can't Leave Behind  
foot in Windmill Lane recording studio, its home away from home. Tho album. which pays  ol'. is the most synthesized and fun song on the album. "A star lit up like a cigar/ Strung out like a  playing occurs on "Kite," where his surreal solo seems to take the listener to a different world.  U2  
homage to th<l rawness of Boy, il-; first album, is also the most  guitar/ Maybe you could educate my mind/ Explain all these con­ Besides the band line-up, there has been one constant on each of  lnterscope Records  
mature sounding album U2 has  trols/ I can't sing but I've got  U2's albums ­ "the song." Since  
ever mad('. The band. Iliad by Bono. the quintessential front-man. and  soul/The goal is elevation." Bono, heavily considered one ol' the best singers in rock music,  "With or Withot!l You" on the .Joshua Tree album, U2 has had at least one haunting. gem-of-a­ Rating  
backnd-up by The Edge, Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen . .Ir.. havt• had ovnr two dncadps to  has had problems wilh his voice the last couple years; however "off-season" conditioning has  .song on each album. On Achtung Baby, it was the timeless "One." on Zooropa, "Stay (Far Away, So  ........  




Tuesday, November 7, 2000 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Poe returns with haunting sophomore release 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Ben Harper rocks sell-out crowd in Chicago 
Ilarper is known specifically for his named Black-ilicious open the concert. The first set climaxed ·,vith a fresh rendi­
By NATE PHILLIPS 
grass-roots type of rock. but does a great They encouraged audience participation, tion of "Steal My Kisses," which involved a 
Scene Music Critic 
job of incorporating different kinds of and were a fun and entertaining warm-up rap portion of the song. Harper sang the musical techniques into his songs. The to Harper. And though surprising to hear a first several verses from his chair, and In a brilliant performance Saturday song, "Steal My Kisses," which hit it big on rap group at a rock concert, it served well then, placing his guitar on a stand, began night. Ben Harper and the Innocent the radio. has influences from both rock to mix-up the usual concert experience. to dance around the stage leaving a rap­Criminals displayed their true rock talent and hip-hop. A number of his most popular After a brief lull, Harper finally emerged per. whom Harper had brought out from at the Aragon Theater in Chicago, Ill. songs simply consist of Harper singing to from backstage to a roaring welcome from backstage at the start of the song, to take Harper, who opened for Dave Matthew's the sole accompaniment of an acoustic gui­the crowd. ½'hile his bassist began strum­over. As "Steal My Kiss" was quickly trans­summer concert tour. played a wide range tar. ming a guitar, llarper calmly placed a formed to a hip-hop song, Harper ran of music that appealed to many different Audiences are drawn not only to the chair in the middle of around the stage types of music fans. Harper is slowly grow­variety of musical elements found in the stage. Behind him working up the audi­ing in popularity, and has slowly been Harper's music, but also his soulful lyrics were two drum sets, Overall, Harper's perfor­ence. By the time the drawning a larger and larger audience -lyrics that are filled with emotion and one for each of song ended. the
mance was exceptionally

from the Dave Matthews' fan base. rel1ect aspects of life that most people Harper's two drum­entire arena was
impressive. He offered a 

experience. His mers. briming with excit­most popular Harper began the wide range ofmusic -ment songs are dra­concert -from his Harper. however,
appealling to all members of

matic and pow­chair -with a blar­took this time to walk
the audience. 

erful, often mak­ing rendition of "Burn off of the stage with ing reference to One Down," immedi-his band. But it didn't 
-

love lost and ately bringing the crowd into the concert. take long for the demanding cheers from found. Following his first song, Harper showed the audience to produce their desired 
The concert his tendency to have a little fun with his result, as Harper again emerged back­venue at the audience by sarcastically dedicated the stage, this time, alone. Aragon Theater concert to George W. Bush. He quickly He sat down on his same chair and was relatively found himself receiving a round. of hoots pulled out an acoustic guitar. For the next small, and as a and boos, which he responded to by dis­hour, Harper softly played his guitar. and result, had little cussing Bush's tenure as owner of the poured his heart out with rich and enter­trouble selling Texas Rangers. taining lyrics. out. The audi­"I worry about Bush as our possible The entire atmosphere of the concert ence itself future president," Harper said. "Anyorni had changed once again -mellowing out encompassed a who would trade Sammy Sosa to the the audience as they enjoyed the sof't wide varietv of Chicago Cubs definitely needs some help sounds of Harper's solo performance. people from with his decision making," After each song, When finL<;hed, Harper thanked the audi­high school stu­a stagehand would run out and give ence, and again left the stage. dents to older Harper a different style of' guttar for the The crowd immediately began chanting hippie fans. The next song. The result of the constant rota­for another encore. and the band emerged small venue tion between electric and acoustic guitars once more in full force for a third set. It SPrved Harper's was that ~wery song was unique and differ­launched into music dominated primarily personal playing ent. The concert maintained a fresh and with the electric guitar and loud drum style perfectly exciting feel throughout. solos. The set finished with a dramatic nm­though, as it For the first hour, Harper belted out a dition of "The Woman in You." And then allowed him get number of different songs. Throughout his the band thanked the crowd for a final the entire audi­first set, Harper focused on songs that time, and walked off of the stage for good. ence involved in were relatively unknov,m, leaving his music Overall, Harper's performance was the show. with a distinct rock foci. though the songs exceptionally impressive. He offered a wide 
Almost as if to remained upbeat and energetic. -range of music -appealling to ·au mem­prove his musi­Once he had finally settled in, however, bers of the audience. The crowd itself was cal diversity, Harper began to vary his music. ranging fun and highly energetic. which served as a 
Proving just why his fan base has been steadily growing in 2000, 
Harper had a from softer upbeat music to harder more catalyst for the energy and excitement of Ben Harper put on an exceptional -and unpredictable -show. small rap band emotional songs like "Please Hlecd." the experience as a whole. 

By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Scene Music Critic 
With her father's ghostly voice sampled throughout her miwest release. Poe has produced a truly haunting sophomore album. 
T h c album. appropriate­ly titted Haunted. tells the story of the stressed relationship Poe shared with her father dur­ing his life. While some songs tell of regret and lost chances, others speak of sheer adolescent defi­ance.. Most tracks would be per­l'cct background music for any scary movie. 
Poe incorporates samples of her father's voice, taken from cassette-recordings he made during his years as a professor. As she explains in the cover booklet, "Had I resurrected a ghost? In some ways I had. Ultimately I entered into a dia-logue with that ghost." This "Wild." In these songs, Poe fully album is her conversation with expresses the freedom she her dead father. encountered upon her father's 


The album's title track, death. "Haunted," has a looming sense Jn "Spanish Doll," Poe both of fragility. An almost schizo­scorns ·and praises her father's phrenic personality emerges as memorv. "I think I used to be she explores the ghosts inside home h·ere/ But the only way l her head, real and imagined. can tell/ Is that I miss you still/ "And I'm haunted/ by the lives And I cannot find you here/ You that I have loved/ And actions I left me tattered and torn." Her have hated." This track is the ability to use contradictions album's strongest success. makes her an accomplished and 
After opening herself up with interesting songwriter. "Haunted," Poe moves next to The most interesting track on "Control" -a song of rebellious the album is "House of Leaves," assertiveness. She delights in her in which Poe explores the possi­abilitv to release herself from bility that her father was sent to her ra"ther's demanding grip. "All hell upon his death. A sample of those things her brother's that you taught V O i C C 
me to fear/ I've No song overshadows the expresses 
got them in my the family's
others because they all
garden now/ concern for And you're not .work together to create a her father's welcome here." solid, cohesive and soul, uttering In its. own "No one
unique album worthy of
sense, "Control" should brave is a feminist praise. the under­rock anthem. w o r I d 
Poe continues alone." the defiant theme in other tracks The album finishes with "If as well. including "Walk the You Were Here," poignantly Walk." "Not A Virgin" and expressing Poe's resolution with 
Haunted 
Poe 
Atlantic Records 
Rating 
........ 
her father and his own ability to find peace beyond the grave. "If you were hereJ You would know how I treasured twery day/ How every single word you spoke echoes in me like a memory of hope." Her father's voice responds to what she is singing. 
There are moments on the 
album when Poe sounds like 
other prominent female musi­
cians, including Aimee Mann (on 
"5 & 1/2 Minute Hallway"), Liz 
Phair (on "Not A Virgin") and 
Gwen Stefani (on "Haunted"). 
Despite the occasional similari­
ties, she maintains a unique 
"' 

vocal advantage and an impres­sive song writing talent. 
All tracks require the listener's attention. She composed and arranged the album to tell a story. Nu song overshadows the others because they all work together to create a solid, cohe­sive and unique album worthy of praise. Her's is the voice of the strong female. 
With Haunted, Poe furthers the personal and experimental edge she attained with her first album. Honesty offers insight not only into her world, but the world of the listener as well. · 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 7, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Arizona ranked No. I in first AP basketball poll 
ness. We've got strength. It's Cincinnati. Wisconsin, Wake was Connecticut, while Dec. 2, 1996. 
Associated Press 

going to be hard for anybody Forest. DePaul, Oklahoma. Michigan State was third in Notre Dame was out of the 
Arizona. with all five starters back from a team that was a top seed in the NCAA Tournament, edged Duke on Monday as the No. 1 team in The Associated Press men's college basketball poll. 
The Wildcats. who were the preseason No. 1 in l 997 after Lhcy won the national champi­onship, had a sizable lead in first-place votes from the national media panel. but 11n­ish ed with just four more points than the Blue Devils. 
"This one has fewer question marks than probably any team that we've had," Arizona coach Lute Olson said of the group that features the sopho­more backcourt of Jason Gardner and Gilbert Arenas and junior forwards Richard Jefferson and Michael Wright. 

Senior center Loren Woods. who missed the end of last season with a back injury. has been impressive returning from off-season surgery. 
"We've got everything," Gardner said. "We've got an inside game. We've got an out­side game. We've got quick-
to match up with us." 
Arizona, which finished 25-7 last season and lost to Wisconsin in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. had 37 first-place votes and 1,753 points. 
Duke. which has four starters back from the team that was No. 1 in the fina,l poll and lost in the round of 16, was first on 29 ballots, and its 1,749 points were 260 more than defending national cham­pion Michigan State. 
The Spartans, who lost three starters from the team that won it all, received five first­place votes and was just two points in front of Stanford. 
Maryland received the other first-place vote and was fol­lowed in the Top Ten by North Carolina. Kansas. Illinois, Tennessee and Seton llall. 
Florida, which lost to Michigan State in the champi­onship game, was 11th, fol­lowed by No. 12 Kentucky, No. 13 Utah, No. 14 Connecticut, and Arkansas and Notre Dame, which tied for 15th. 
UCLA was 17th, followed by 
8o/o of18to24 vearoldsdo 
potvoteintheirfederalelect 
,ons. 
_.,.,_..,-Fill the Vol Vote on November 7, 200 

Southern California, Virginia and Iowa State. 
The big conferences domi­nated the voting with eight leagues supplying all 25 teams. Six conferences had at least three teams each with the ALlantic Coast Confernnce 's five -Duke, Maryland, North Carolina, Wake Forest and Virginia ­leading the way. 
Last year's preseason No. 1 
the opening poll. The only teams to be ranked in the Top Ten all last season were 
• Arizona, which got as high as No. 2, and Cincinnati, which was No. 1 for 12 weeks. Four of the schools in this year's poll weren't ranked al any point last season. 
Arkansas and Wisconsin were both in the Top 25 dur­ing the 1998-99 season, while Virginia was last ranked on 

RE-ELECT STATE REPRESENTATIVE B. PAT BAUER N.D. GRAD '66 
rankings the longest. The last time the Fighting Irish were in the Top 25 was the first regu­lar-season poll of 1989-90. 
Arizona continues the longest run of Top 25 appear­ances. having been in each one since the prcseason vote of l 995-96 -90 consecutive polls. Stanford and Duke arc tied for second at 73, a run that started with the presea­
. sun pull of 1996-97. 

Pat is the author of the Indiana budget bill which provides millions of dollars to Notre Dame and its students for Freedom of Choice grants, SSACI grants and awards, research dollars and the I.U./N.D. medical center. 

photo: B.Pat Bauer ND '66, Karen (Bella) Bauer Sl\,fC '74 and children: Bart, Megan, &-Maureen 
Paid for by the "Pat Bauer for State Representative" Committee 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 1.m. at che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer rc,serves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Need 1 Ticket HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 Locally based racing publication in 1993 Ford Explorer (2 door) For ND v BC 2 ND/USC TIX+ AIRFARE! 4/5 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus. need of web design to help to Manual 4-wheel drive LOST & FOUND 247-0965 GOTO alumni.nd edu/-ndc_satx 773-486-8822 improve and maintain present sites. 66,000 miles 

Strong graphic design ability a call: 784-8303 or 219-232·5557 
Please help out a fellow American I hotel available for Nebraska game must. FOUND WANTED need two tickets for the BC game. 9/8 9/9 For more info, call 277-0033. TREK BIKE in parking lot one week ND FOOTBALL TKTS Contact Matt: 631-4111 Call rich 917·946·1800 
PERSONAL

ago. 289-9280 WANTED: FORMER ISLI PARTICI­CALL MATT 4-4894 A family despretly needs boston That Pretty Place, Bed and PANTS TO FACILITATE UPCOM­
SELLING college tickets Breakfast Inn has space available ING CONFERENCE ON 11/18/00. FAX IT FAST!!! LOST on campus at Stanford game ND FOOTBALL TKTS Will pay top dollar $$$ for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms "RUDY" WILL BE THE GUEST Sending & Receiving 1 I /2 inch thick gold bracelet 251-1570 @277-1659 thanks with private baths, $80-$115, SPEAKER. CALL JIM HART AT At REWARD call Carol at 312·946-Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 277-1599 OR DR.LOMBARDO AT THE COPY SHOP 1800. VICTORY TKTS Toll Road. Exit #107, 1-800-418-THE CCE. LaFortune Student Center 
BUY'SELL•TRADE For Sale: 2 GA BC tix 287-1449 9487. Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FOUND· lronman Triathlon watch ND FOOTBALL on Thursday night between 232-0964 LaFortune and Nieuwland Science www.victorytickets.com Hall. Man's watch with black, gray, and orange coloring. Call Steph at BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 4-1675. 273-3911 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 

TICKETS A.M. -232-2376 
P.M. -288-2726 

WANTED 
ND FOOTBALL TKTS ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE 289-9280 A.M. -232-2378 P.M. -268-2726 
SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS. 251-1570 BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219 I need one G.A. ticket for B.C. game. Please call Erin 4-4190 
I NEED BC TIX. 272-6306. 
BC GAME TICKET, PERFERABL Y IN STUDENTS SECTION, DESIRED TO BE BE PURCHASED BY CURRENT HIGH SCHOOL SENIOR ANO PROSPECTIVE ND OR SMC STUDENT, ENTERING FALL '01, WILL BE VISITING BOTH SCHOOLS BC WEEKEND. PLEASE CALL ERIN GRIFFIN (313)822-3263 Students Wanted! Alum-owned 2stry 5-6 bdrm, 2 bath New· carpet, appliances, washer-dryer, furnace-roof, & Security Huge yard. 1 blk N. of Club 23 $1375 inc. until. Call Jason 240· 0322. 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND GREAT AREA. 277-3097. 
2520 sq. ft. home Im sale or lease to buy in Knollwood. Moving. $174k. 277-7992 
FOR SALE ToEPS Happy 20th 
#1 Spring Break 2001 -Cancun, M, D, P and B 
Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, 
xxxxxxxooooooooo 
Florida & S.Padre. Reliable TWA flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or J used to talk normal 
FREE trips-call for details! 
until my brother hit me in the tace 
1 800 SURFS. UP WWW studenle~­with a shovel 

press com bmxjousl
Spring Break 2001 Book group of 15 and GO FREE! Book before i can't stop thinking about valerie 
Nov. 3 tor FREE Meals! Visit us at sunsplashtours.com or call tor free into @ 1-800-426-771 O need 
to 

289-8048 94 Mitsubishi Galant 
go

VICTORY TKTS 3,4 & 6 BDRM HOMES. FURN. Black/Su nroof/195k 
home 

BUY'SELL 'TRADE Need 1 Ticket NOW & 2001-02. $1950 obo 
FOR RENT
ND FOOTBALL ForNDvBC 272-6306 Call (219) 634-0849 
NEED 5 tickets to BC 

232-0964 247-0965 Call Ernesto 274-0829 
www.victorytickets.com ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE CAR FOR SALE: 1991 Pontiac I NEED TWO BC TICKETS! AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS Lemas LE, 20, Mileage. 77,000 
Lost: at LaFortune 

WANTED
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS MY PARENTS ARE COMING' http://mmmrentalshomepage.com/ Phone 273-6056; email A men's fossil watch with a stain­
273-3911 WILL PAYI email:mmmrentals@aol.com erdem 1@nd.edu 
less steel face and a brown leather 

232-2595 International publication based in 
band. The face is decorated with lit-

ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED CALL 284-43341 Granger 11as opening for assistant PHONE CARDS lie fossil pictures. REWARD. 
A.M. -232-2378 WE'LL TALK! GREAT APT. FOR RENT FOR BC editor. Writing and grammar skills $20 1558 MIN. 
Please call Kylie at 634-4655 

P.M. -288-2726 WEEKEND! necessary. CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805 NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE Turtle Creek Apt. for rent BC week-
hi i'm johnny knoxville 

ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE GA'S. PLEASE CALL MANYARD end, Sleeps 4 comfortably. parking Knowledge of motor sports a '95 Honda Civic EX, red, moonroof. 
A.M. -232-2378 AT 1-800-638-6963. X 6093. CALL for one car, contact bonus. 5 spd. 52k mi, $8950, wee-man 
P M -288-2726 WILL BE RETURNED ASAP. adipaola@nd.edu For more information call 277·0033. call 1-6953 
... 
Tuesday, November 7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Men's 
continued from page 24 
seconds, Verlin also claimed first in the 200-yard butterfly in 1 :55.71. 
Four swimmers were individual event winners for the Irish. Freshman Matt Oberlin had a key performance for the Irish, capturing the 200-meter individ­ual medley in 2:03.12. Freshman J.R. Teddy put another Irish first place on the board in the 400-meter freestyle, finishing in 3:48.04. Senior Dan Szilier clinched the first place finish in the 200-meter breastroke in 2:12.08, and junior David Horak took the 200-rneter backstroke in 1 :55.28. 
Friday's meet was a different story, with the Irish lagging behind Oakland University, capturing only five of 15 events. There were some bright spots for the Irish, however, especially in the distance events. 
Junior Jonathan Pierce clinched vic­tories in the 1.650-yard freestyle in 16:00.45, and in the 500 freestyle in 
4:40.99. Sophomore diver Andy Maggio kept the divers undefeated in dual meet action, winning both the one and three meter board events. Szilier took first in the 200 breastroke in 2:07 .02. 
But the middle part of the meet was the crunch, where the Irish found themselves falling to Oakland's sprint­ing forces, dropping both the 50-and 100-yard freestyles. 
"This is just going to be a year where we just have to keep working on sprint­ing," said head coach Tim Welsh. "But our times were better this time. We're making progress, but we're not done," he said. 
The Irish now take a break from 

competition, not returning to the com­
petitive scene until the Notre Dame 
Invitational. Nov.31 through Dec.3. The 
hiatus gives the team the opportunity 
to prepare well, Welsh said. 
"This gives us a couple of weeks of very intense preparation," Welsh said. "We are only going to be as good as our level of improvement -this break is to our advantage." 
VOLLEYBALL 

Bomhack named player of week 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Marcie Bomhack (left) talks with her teammates in between a point during a match earlier. this season. 
Special to The Observer 
Junior outside_ hitter Marcie Bomhack was named the Big East Player of the Week on Monday, Nov. 6, for her perfor­mance in three Notre Dame vic­tories last week. 
Bomhack was instrumental in the three Irish sweeps over Boston College, North Carolina and Providence, pushing the Notre Dame 2000 season record 
,. 

to 21-5 and 10-0 in the Big East Conf'erence. She hit .540 in the three matches with 3G kills (5.1 per game). 23 digs (3.2 per game) and seven blocks (1.0 per game). 
Against BC on Friday, Nov. 3. Bomhack had six kills while playing just two games on .417 hitting. She also had a team-high nine digs in the contest. 
On Nov. 4, she posted 16 kills on .483 hitting against non-con­feren ce opponent North Carolina. She also had five blocks and five digs in the con­test, including a game-winning solo block to score the deciding point of the second game to give the Irish a 2-0 lead in the match. 
Taking on Providence on Sun., Nov. 5. she continued her hot hitting with 14 kills on 20 attempts without committing and error, while also having five digs, an ace and a block. 
Bomhack becomes the third Irish player to earn player of the week accolades from the Big East. Senior setter Denise Boylan earned the honor on Sept. 4 and senior outside hitter Christi Girton was a double-award win­ner on Sept. 25 and Oct. 2 
Hey Business Students 
Ea4 Drink, and Be Meny!!! 
Come Eat and Shoot the Breeze With Your Professors at the College of Business Academic luncheon. Tne lunch Takes Place on Wednesday From 11:00-12:30 in the SDH Hospitality Room. See You There, 

Student Workers Needed To help assist other students using the temporary DA.RT registration system at the Registration Center, G 184 Hesburgh Library from 
,h . 

November 8 through December l" 
Hours: 9:00 am to 5:00 pm 

Dates: November 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 28, 29, 30, December I 
We need student help throughout the day ... you pick your time you are available 
Please Contact: Arlene Vogt, Assistant Registrar, I05 Main Building, Registrar's Office 631-6050 
The Univers1tv of Notre Dame Department of Music Guest Lecture Series presents 
~benb;;MUSIQVE 
Concert XV: MEDIEVAL CHANT & ORGANUM 
~]19 ~cbola mugtcorum 
Wed., Nov 8, 2000 
9:30 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public 

F<.1r more in formation, lease ca! I {219) 631-6201 or t•isit hit : / / \\'\\.'w.nd .edu / ~congi..1ers 
---· 

Tuesday, November 7, 2000 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Associated Pres$ 
DENVEH 

llis coach compares him favorably to Joe Montana. While that might be prema­ture, Denver Broncos quar­terback Brian Griese, in only his second full season as a starter, is putting up Montana-like numbers. 
Never was that more apparent than in the Broncos' 30-23 victory over the Ne.w York Jets on Sunday. 
Griese was outstanding, completing 22 of 35 passes for 327 yards with two touch­downs and one interception. 
Hut on third down -a la Montana -he was other­worldly. 
In those critical situations. Griese was 13-for-16 for 225 yards and two scores. lie accounted for 12 first downs, and his third-down passer rating was 158.3 -the maxi­mum rating possible. 
For the year, Griese leads the i\FC and is second in the 
Obviously a proud papa, the elder Griese, who became emotional while doing televi­sion commentary on his son's Michigan team in the nation­al championship game in 1997, prefers to let his son's career stand on its own. 
Contacted at his Miami home on Monday. Griese said, "I really don't want to comment. He's got his own career going there." 
i\nd what a career it has become! 
Emerging from the long shadow of John Elway, whom he succeeded as the Broncos' quarterback in 1999, Griese is quickly making his own imprint. 
In a day-after assessment of the win over the Jets, coach Mike Shanahan said, "It's hard for a quarterback to play much better than he played. especially in that environment, in those condi­tions, against an excellent def'ensive football team. 
f Ell: 
_.,::._. ""' 
., 

November 7 -November 10 9am -9pm November 11 9am -5pm free admission open to the public Century Center Convention Hall B 
120 South St. Joseph St., South Bend, IN 46601 
We accept VISA, MasterCard. American Express'~ J.Crew credit cards. cash, and personal checks (with proper identification). 
Directions: From the North or South-St. Joseph Street is anorth hound one-way str"et. lhe, continuation of Business US 31. through downtown South Bend. From the South. the Century Center is on the right side of the street ne,t to the river. The parking lot rs on the south side of the Center. from the North. US 31/933 becomes Main Street (one-way southboundi in downtown South Bend Follow southbound. turn left to Jefferson. rum left to St. Joseph Street. Century Center is on the right side From the East Indiana Toll Rood 80/90 westbound. /ooil for South Bend Exit 77 Notre DamP. Turn right Jt the uottom of the ramp. head southbound on US 311933 mto the middle uf town Turn lert at Jefferson Street into the Centurf Center parking lot 294 westbound. ei1t Route 12 towards Niles. Cross US 31 and St. Jo~eph River fart US 31/933 to South Bend. Take aleft on Jefterson Street. Century Center parking ,s 31 the end of the street From the West. Indiana Toll Road 80/90 eastb,1und. lock for South Bend fait 77 Notre 03me. Turn right at the bottom of the ramo. head southbound on US 311933 into the m,ddle of the town Turn left at Jefferson Street into the Century Center parking lot. 294 eastbound. across the Michigan state line. the second exit is marked Route 1: Niles. &rt and turn right on Route 12. Cro~s US 31 and St Joseph River. Exit US 31/933 to South Send. Take aleft on Jeffmon Street Century Center parking is at the end cf the street 
NFL with a passer rating of 104.9, trailing only St. Louis' Kurt Warner. 
lie has thrown 18 touch­down passes compared to three interceptions. a 6-to-1 ratio that would break the NFL record of 5.75-to-1 set by Kansas City's Steve DeBerg in 1990. 
Such precision brings to mind another passer nam!id Griese. Brian's father. llall of Farner Bob Griose. 
Bed N' Breakfast Registry Jay,c: Smigiclski ' Seay i11 a "Home dose unhc Dome" 
219/232-0774 888/830-7722 lmp://busincss.mid1i~iu.org:/bnbrcg/ 
enormous 
FLEECE 
Sele 

Sminute fr.om CUTPCST 
Campus 
Competlrlvw In awry MIIN 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Ethical issues involving technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for society. 
To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program (STV). This is an academic minor requiring 15 credit hours. The program is open to students in any college. Within the STV Program, you may develop concentrations in specific tracks en,phasizing STV combinations with Business; Environmental Studies; Preprofessional Studies; Philosophy and Theology; Computer and Physical Sciences; and Government and Public Policy. 
Course offerings for SPRING 2001 1may be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or you can visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/-stv. Call 631-5015 for a personal appointment. 
Tuesday, November 7, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
This Week in Campus Ministry 

November 6-27 l03 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #32 
(Dec. 1-2, 2000) Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Fisher, Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford, Welsh Family 
Monday-Tuesday, November 6-7 11 :30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, November 7, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday. November 7. 7:00 p.m. 
Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation -Session #4 
Wednesday. November 8. l 0:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Saturday. November 11. 9:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Annual Notre Dame Concert for the Missions 
Sunday, November 12, 1:30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Thomas Bednar, c.s.c. 

Sound Profound 
• SpecialELECTIONDAYEdition ­Enlighten tbe people generally, andtyranny 
andoppressions ofl,odyandmind'IIJill wmisb like evilspiritsattbe da'IIJn ofday 
Thomas Jefferson, 1816 
I shouldlike to beable to lMJe my countryandstilllo'Dejrutice. 
Albert Camus 
0MPUS 
tv1tNISTRY 
112 Bodin Hall 631-5242 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ministry 
March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center 


"_D® 'jf!!!,'!J Fii.8£ 'jj®'!Jt' 'jj®'!JK'g~'lr Dr~ther't agxd iiiter-ir 
j)® ;J®'!J 6KJ®'Y pf09ylK9 vith pr'En~ch®®feri'P 


J'tre ;J®'!J [®®ktK9 f®r 09 ser'Yic:e pr'~Ject y~Y c:GfJx vGfJ[k t®? 
Volunteers are needed to help with "Parents' Time Out" 
•· a child care co-operative held at the Community Center at University Village (Graduate Student Housing for married students with children; located within walking distance of campus-just off Douglas Road). 
Monday mornings from 9:30 -11 :30a.m. 
There are always at least two parents on duty, but another pair of helping hands would be appreciated to assist with craft activities and in organizing games. If you couldn"t commit to the entire block of time, even part of it would be helpful. 
Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 1-7163. 

GJ Go on aRetreat 


For more information, please contact: Tom Ooyle,C.S.C. 1-4112 Doyle.22@nd.edu or Tami Schmitz 1-3016 Schmitz.8@nd.edu 
~ 
Prayer Opportunity
WiJ 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Mondays 11 :30 pm through Tuesday at 10:00 pm at St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall. 


For information,call Mary Tarsha@ 634-2469 or Lisa Demidovich@ 634-0847. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 7, 2000 
NFL 
Drained Ross resigns as Lions' head coach 
Associated Pre•• 
PONTIAC. Mich. 

The Detroit Lions replaced a burned-out coach with one who wore out his welcome less than 70 miles away. 
H o  b b y  
Hoss,  men­ 
tally  and  

physically 
drained 
after 3 1/2 years. resigned Monday and was replaced by assistant coach Gary Moeller. who was fired as Michigan's coach in 1995 davs after his arrest dur­ing a disturbance at a Detroit­area restaurant. 
"I really think I can put less prnssurc 011 myself," Moeller said Monday after signing a three-year contract. "But I'm not sure, yrrn know what I mean'? You get into it. things starl lo tighten and the screws start lo tighten. 
"This honeymoon is going to end tomorrow, probably in two or three hours. I think I can deal with that and deal thor­oughly with it." 
Hoss' resignation is the third coaching change in the NFL this season. but it's the first with a team that is having a relatively successful season. ' 
The Lions arc 5-4 and have a chance lo earn a playoff berth. 
Two weeks ago. Arizona tired Vince Tobin and replaced him with Dave McGinnis. On Sept. 25, Bruce Coslet resigned in Cincinnati and was replaced by Dick LeBeau. 
Ross has one year remaining on his live-year contract with the Lions. Vice president Chuck Schmidt said details of the con­tract buyout have not been detcrmined. 
Schmidt said Ross had thought about resigning before Monday. 
"This isn't the only time he felt this way," Schmidt said. "lie doesn't get too high. but he gets down pretty low. 
"I can't say I talked him out of it before, but has he thought about this'? Sure." 
In his fourth year with the I,i()ns, Hoss compiled a 27-30 regular-season record and an 0-2 mark from playoff appear­ances in 1997 and last season. lie replaced Wayne Fontes, who was fired in December 1996. 
The 63-year-old Ross, who did not attend the news conf"er­ence. submitted a letter of res­ignation to ownnr William Clay Ford. 
"I um sorry, also. for not giv­ing you the championship tro­phy you so richly deserved. Your strong support was my constant motivation throughout my time here," Hoss wrote. 
Ford said Hoss resigned on his own. 
"I think he felt that he just burned himself out physically and mentally, that he didn't have any more to give," Ford said. "I think he made the right decision." 
The news of Hoss· resignation surprised the Lions. 
"We've seen how frustrated he's been and we und!lrstand his l"cclings," llcrman Moore 

said. "But I don't think anybody saw this coming." Ross does not want to coach again, according to Moeller. 
The highlights of Ross' career occurred before he came to Detroit in 1997. 
lie led the San Diego Chargers lo the 1995 Super Bowl, five years after taking Georgia Tech to the national championship. 
Moeller had a lot of success in five years at Michigan before he was fired. 
lie was 44-13-3, with three Big Ten titles and four wins in New Year's Day bowl games. The Wolverines won a Big Ten­record 19 straight conferencc games and were unbeaten over a span of' 22 games from 1990­93. 
Moeller pleaded no contest to disorderly conduct and assault charges and was fined $200 in connection with a drunken out­burst at a Detroit-area restau­rant that ended with Moeller punching a police officer. Michigan wanted Moeller to resign, but when he refused, he was fired. 
Moeller served two seasons as Cincinnati's tight-ends coach before being hired in 1997 as the Lions' running backs coach. This year, the 58-year-old. Moeller has served as an assis­tant head coach and lineback­ers coach. 
Jim Brandstatter, a former Michigan lineman who is an analyst for Lions' radio broad­casts. believes Moeller is equipped to deal with the rigors 
of being a  head coach in the  
NFL.  
"l  think  one  of his  more  

telling statements was that he's learned how to deal with pres­sure better," Brandstatter said. "Since being at Michigan. he's learned lessons on his own and through observation as an assistant at Cincinnati and now in Detroit as it relates to deal­ing with pressure." 
Moeller is taking over a fran­chise that hasn't won a world championship since 1957 and is 1-9 in the playoffs since. 

SMC 
continued from page 24 
system. Ramsey also won the 500 yard freestyle. 
The Belles had a meet full of in-season bests and strong swims, Hildebrandt said. "Because the longer [dis­tance! events were new to the freshmen, I looked at how they swam the race -not just their times. I am very happy with their performances. They swam smart, consistent races. 
Smart and consistent times couldn't help the Belles come out with a win against 
Western Ontario Saturday afternoon. Struggling to notch high place finishes, the Belles cotild only capture two first place finishes. Ramsey contin­ued to shine, placing on top in the 400-yard freestyle, and the 400-yard freestyle squad also wrapped up the meet in first. 
This was the Belles first time competing against Western Ontario and they weren't sure what lo expect, admitted Hildebrandt. 
"Even though we couldn't put a win in our column, we gained some valuable experi­ence," said Hildebrandt. 
Other top performances this weekend were seen from 

Elizabeth Doro on Saturday with a second place finish in both the 50 and 100 yard freestyle events. 
The Belles sole diver, senior Hyann Cox debuted a a front dive with a full twist Friday night and contributed f'irst place points for the Belles 
"She was truly amazing. She went out there and did dives that she had never attempted before. She's a trooper," said Hildebrandt. 
The Belles will not see league competition until Nov. 14 when they face off against Olivet. In the meantimfl they will travel to Wabash over the weekend to compete against the women of' Transalvania. 

The Keough Institute for Irish Studies 
Is delighted to announce its courses for Spring 2001 
IRST 101:01  Beginning Irish I  MWF 9:15-10:25  Staff  
IRST 101:02  Beginning Irish I  MWF 11:45-12:35  Staff  
IRST 102  Beginning Irish II  TH I J:00-12:15  Breandan Mac Suibhne  
IRST 103  Intennediate Irish  TH 9:30-10:4S  Breandan Mac Suibhne  
IRST327B  Trish History Il  TII 9:30-10:45  Jim Smyth  
IRST334A  Nat. Cinema: Irish Cinema/ CulLUre  TH 11:00-12:15  Luke Gibbons  
lR3T 334L  Nat. Cinema: Lab  T 6:30-9:00  Luke Gibbons  
IRST 375  Irish Fiction, 1945-2000  TH 11:00-12:15  Mary Smyth  
fRST 378  19th Century British & frish Fiction  TH 9:30-10:45  Nathan Wallace  
IRST436  Foreign Influence in Medieval Ireland  MWF 9:35-10:25  Aidcen O'Leary  
IRST478E  Contemporary Irish Drama  MWF 12:50-1:40  Susan Harris  

For Information about the IRISH STUDIES PROGRAM please contact Susan Hanis (631-5088) 712 Flanner Hall http://www.nd.cdu/-i rishstu/ 
Tuesday, November 7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Giants sit atop NFC East standings with 7-2 record 
With. seven games left in the and Tennessee earlier this Meadowlands this weekend. winning, it's only been for a 
Associated Press 
regular season. Jim Fassel's season, those games looked The Lions also are in a slide split second. team has a shot at winning more like that led to the "All I care about is that we
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

home-field advantage for the losses than retirement of keep getting better and keep
Forget that the New York ''All I care about is that
playoffs. wins for New coach Bobby getting better," said Fassel,
Giants haven't beaten a good 
And, everything seems to be York. we keep getting better Ross on whose team hasn't made the 
team all season. Just look at 
going the Giants' way right But hold on. and keep getting better. " Monday. playoffs since 1997, his rookiethe standings. 
now. The Rams Fassel says season. "There is a formula toThe Giants (7-2) have won Take a look at New York's have lost two he isn't look­how you win in this league.
four games in a row after Jim Fassel
next two games, both at home. of their last ing past the You've just got to keep gettingbeating Cleveland on Sunday, 
They've got the Super Bowl. three games, Giants' head coach Rams this better and you've got to winand suddenly have a 1 1/2 
champion SL Louis Rams (7 -2) and will be weekend. all those games and keep
game lead over Philadelphia this Sundav and the Detroit without quar-While he creeping up on those teamsand Washington in the NFC 
Lions (5-4) the following week, terback Kurt Warner and half­admits he has glanced at the tha;, everybody says arc bet­East. 
After losing to Washington back Marshall Faulk at the possibilities if the Giants keep ter. The Rams are one of those 


CH I l-D ll-tN IN 

IZ-tAD ING TH ll-t t GIt.AD tr et HI ND 
TH t, 1Z­ r v8uIZ-8 AN Pt t IZ-r .  
)  
L12.., DwYEfl-. r TH1 fl-.D  G~DEfl-.r  eEGAN THE  YEAf/... THAT FAfl-.  
)  

eE:H1ND. (N ONt YEAfl-., rHE r CAvGHT THtM vP AND PvT THEM ON A L-EVE L-P L-AY1 NG Fl EL-D. 

CuME L.E,....11-N HOW You CAN JO;N THE co,.,,,. OF OuTrTt-ND;NG /',.NO D;vE~rE ~ECENT COI.-L.fGE G~!)uf',.TEf OF /',./...L. 
,..,_Cl"<Ofr,,1( fv\/',.JO~r WHO COMMIT TINO '(Ef',.P-.f TO_ TE'ACH IN Ou~ Nl'\T,oN' r MOfT UNOEP-.-M'rou~CED ,CHOO/.-,. 
INFORMATION SESSION Wednesday, November 8, 2000 • 6:00 p.m. University of Notre Dame DeBartolo Hall, Rm.1 20 
TEACHFOiRAMERICA 
,-Ro o-TP,.._ _ 12. 3 o www.Tf'-"'CHPOV,../v\f '-' c,..,.o,_G 
rHOND APPL., C/·•-TJ ON DEADL.1 NE , l ) ANtJA~Y / 6J 2.o O I 
teams, although Fassel doesn't want to overemphasize the importance of the game. He doesn't want his team feeling like it has arrived if they beat the Rams or that it isn't good enough if it loses. 
Fassel is also trying to down­play the absence of Warner and Faulk. 
"If you think for one minute that this football team or myself or this coaching staff is going to look at these guys any differently -with or without Marshall Faulk -you 're crazy," Fassel said. "You guys may do it. We're not. 
"These guys are still the heavyweight champion of the football world," he said. "Thev can still move that football and score a \vhole lot of points. Until somebody else takes their throne away from them, that's who they still arc and with a heck of a record." 
Fassel thinks these Giants are better than the team that lost 34-10 to the Rams in St. Louis last season. 
New York is faster on defense with the addition of Mike Barrow at middle line­backer, and with cornerback Jason Sehorn seemingly ready to return from a broken rib. 
The Giants also feel the need to prove they are as good as their record. 
"You look at what we've done and there are only a cou­ple teams in the whole league with a better record," Fassel said. On the other hand, we'll just keep on marching through. We don't have to beat the drum right now. Hopefully we'll make a bang at the end." 
When you 
can't see · 

eye•to•eye 
with the IRS 
get an ear 

You can't resolve an ongoing tax issue through the usual IRS channels? Or you face significant hardship unless relief is granted? You may qualify for a personal Taxpayer Adrncate. Phone toll­free 1-877-777-4778. 
A
TAXPAYER
bVllCAlEI 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 7, 2000 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Seminoles ranked ahead of Hur·ricanes in BCS poll 
Forest (1-8). Hut schedule 

Associated Prcss 
strength could help Florida State in the end -the
Miami may be ranked No. 2 
Seminoles close againstin tho media and coaches 

Florida (8-1), fifth in the BCSpolls,· but Florida State is sec­

standings, while Miami has

ond in the ratings that count games against Syracuse and
most -the BCS standings. 
Boston College.
The Snminolus, despite a 27­
Nebraska (8-1) is in fourth

24 loss to the llurricanes last 
place this week.

month. were in second place 
Florida State coach Bobby

behind Oklahoma in the Howl 
Bowden. naturally, was

Championship Series released 
thrilled with the new stand­Monday. a scant .39 points 

ings.

ahead of Miami. 
"It makes us vBry happy," heThe teams that finish 1-2 in 
said. "We're apprehensivethe final HCS standings 

about the future, but it makesrPleascd Dec. 3 will play in a you feel like if you can win the

national title game in the 
rest of your games you've got a

Orange Bowl on Jan. 3. The great shot of getting into thestandings are based on a for­championship game."
mula that incorporates the AP Miami coach Butch Davis
poll plus the coaches' poll, 
took the keep-winning, things­

eight computer rankings, 
will-work-out-approach.

schedule strength and number "We told the kids winning isof losses. 
the only thing we have controlFlorida Stutc (9-1) came out 
over and we'll let the results

ahead of Miami (7 -1) this week 
speak for what needs to be

based on a stronger computer 
spoken for." Davis said. "You

rating. 
just want to give yourself a
In the eight compuler rank­
chance to be in position to play

in gs used. the Seminoles ­

Bowl Chanipionship Series Rankings /#' ' 
. ii;., 

Team  Po11..Av~.  r A..~omp,_.,_vg.  Scheule.Rank  Losses  Total  
l.  Okla.homo  1.0  1.00  0.76  0  276  
2  Florida St  3.0  2. 14  0.28  1  6.42  
3. Miami. Ft  2..0  3.57  0.24  l  6.H.l  
4. Nebraska  4.5  3.29  0.88  l  9.67  
5. F!orida  4.5  5.00  0.68  1  l Ll8  
(1  Wruihmgton  6.5  6.71  0.16  1  14.. 37  
7. Orstgon  6.5  6.06  0.64  1  15.00  
8. Va Tef:'.h  8.0  8.14  0.48  1  17.62  
9. Oregon SL  10.0  10.00  l80  1  22.80  
lO. Pu:rdut:'  9.0  1 LOO  J.28  2  z.~.28  
j 1. K-Stnte  13.5  8.86  l.92  2  2.0..28  
12. Notre Dume  1L5  13.86  OAO  2  27.76  
13. Ohio Stale  13.5  12.14  1.16  2  28.80  
14. Miss. State  15.5  13,00  0.56  2  3LOG  
1:5.. Norlhwesl.cTn 15.0  14,71  1.00  2  32.71  

this week -one point for poll strength-of-schedule and 1 for years ago to come up wrth a 
for a national championship." average, one for computer losses. national title game withoutthird last week -had an aver­
If Miami is upset, how about rank average, 0.76 for In the computer ratings, the instituting a playoff. After the
age rating of 2. 14. while the 
Washington? The Huskies (8-1) strength-of-schedule and zero lowest ranking is discarded top two teams are decided. theHurricanes -fifth last week beat the Hurricanes 34-29 on for losses. The Sooners (8-0) and the seven highest arc used remaining BCS games -the-were at 3.57. On Saturday, 
Sept. 9, but are in sixth place. beat Baylor 56-7 on Saturday. to come up with an average. Rose, Sugar and Fiesta bowls
Miami beat a then-second­
"It's so convoluted," Davis Florida State had 6.42 points For example, the Seminoles -select from the remainingplace Virginia Tech 41-21; 
added. "I don't know the -3 for poll average; 2.14 for !nave one first, five seconds, a pool of qualified te11ms.
Florida State defeated a then-
strength-of-schedule things. computer rank average; 0.28 fourth and a sixth. The sixth­Champions of six confer­
13lh-place Clemson 54-7. 
We have three games left, all for strength-of-schedule and 1 place rating is tossed out. The ences -the ACC, Big East, BigNext week, Miami could pull against teams having good for losses. Hurricanes have three thirds Ten. Big 12, Pac-10 and SEC ­
ahead with an impressive win against Pittsburgh (5-3). years. We'll just keep playing Miami had 6.81 points -2 and five fourths. A fourth­qualify for a BCS game, and 
and not worry about it." for poll average; 3.57 for com­place is thrown out. two at-large teams are select­
Florida State plays Wake 
Oklahoma totaled 2.76 points puter rank average; 0.24 for The BCS was created two ed to fill out the field. 

Topping Pizza 
_ every tuesday
271 0300 

Manager's Special: Free can of Coke with purchase Under New Management 
Call tod~y and 11am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11am-3am fri-sat 
Tuesday, November 7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
Wo01en 
continued from page 24 
backstroke. 
"We weren't quite finishing our races the way we needed to," Van Saun said. 'Tm not going to say that I'm not upset, but losing one meet is not going to ruin our entire season." 
The Irish did have bright spots in the weekend, howev­er, sweeping a quad meet at University of Miami-Ohio against Miami (Ohio), Kenyon. and Pittsburgh on Friday. 
Key performances were Van Saun's first place in the 200 yard freestyle, Labosky's 
1.650 yard freestyle win, junior Kelly 1-Iecking's double backstroke victories, sopho­more Amy Deger's first places in the butterfly events and Mattingly's double wins on the boards. 
Jrish backstrokers made the biggest dent in the com­petition, soaking their oppo­nents with a 1-2-3-4 sweep in the 100 backstroke. 
Led by Becking, freshmen Lisa Garcia, Jessica Roberts, and junior Tiffany O'Brien sealed the event for the Irish. 
O'Brien and Hecking's per­formances were crucial, Weathers said. O'Brien post­ed "some of her best" times this season, Weathers said, and Hecking, who bounced back from illness, was a solid contributor. 

"(O'Brien] had some of her best swims outside of the Big East [Championships] since she's been at Notre Dame," Weathers said. "Her swims were pretty incredible. With [Becking! being sick, her times were incredible." 
The Notre Dame swim team will take a week off, and return to competition at the Indiana University Invitational Nov. 17-19. 
Please recycle The Observer. 
Isn't it time your home gave something back to you? 
6e go/oAPY• 
PRIMEquity Line-of-Credit Loan Low introductory rate! 


9 so/oAPY•
e 
Even our regular rate is hard to beat!
ro. 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 
219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org 


lndepend~nt of the University. 
•Annual Percentage Rate. Property insurance is required. Not valid with any other offt,r. Rates subject to change. Consult a tax advisor regarding th.e deductibility of interest. A balloo.n payment will result at maturity. After the six-month introductory period, the rate will revert to the highest prirne lending rate of the previous quarter. Minimum amount is $5,000. Maximum amount is $100,000. 


page 21 
FOOTBALL 

Irish seek revenge against Eagles 
By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Sounds like a scene straight from Hollywood. 
Notre Dame had just lost 27­21 to Michigan State on Sept. 23, fallen to 2-2 and faced the possibility of losing its starting quarter­back for the remain­der of the 

Davie 
season. Facing an uncertain future, coach Bob Davie met with the entire squad, put the rest of the schedule on a board and spoke from the heart. 
"That was the last time and really the only time that I talked about anything like that,'' Davie said on Monday. "I thought at that time it was realistic because of the atti­tude of this team to say that we could win and we could have a successful season." 
And now, after four straight victories the Irish are steadily climbing the rankings. They stand at No. 11 in the Associated Press poll, No. 12 in the USA Today/ESPN poll and. most importantly, No. 12 in the latest Bowl Championship Series stand­ings. If Notre Dame wins their three remaining games, an invitation to the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans or the Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Ariz. is a strong possibility. 
"It's a tremendous opportu­nity for this football team," Davie said. "But everyone real­izes after watching college football this weekend how topsy-turvy things are and how every week is a different chal­lenge." 
Davie's cautious attitude stems from the past two sea­sons, when his "November to 

Get on the Front line Faster 
TD Securities offers a fast-paced environment and a dynamic culture that is perfectly suited to self-starters Looking to take on challenges. Right from the start. Launch your career the right way. 
,0 SECURITIES 
PRESENTATION: 7:00.-8:00 p.rn., Tuesday, 11/7/00 ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS: Wednesday, 11/8/00 To find out more about us, visit Careers at www.tdsecurities.com 
Remember" motto became  
more forgetful than memo­ 
rable. In 1998, one week after  
Jarious Jackson injured his  
right knee, Notre Dame's 10-0  
loss to USC ended their BCS  
chances. Then last year, after  
four straight victories, the  
Irish lost their final four.  
Included in. the stretch was a  
31-29 loss to this week's oppo­ 
nent, Boston College. Notre  
Dame entered the game at 5-5  
and could have qualified for a  
bowl berth with a victorv. ·  
Following the game, several  
Boston College players  
returned to the field and cele­ 
brated by tearing up pieces of  
grass from the Stadium.  
"I remember vividly [former  
Boston College defensive line­ 
man] Chris Hovan picking up  
grass and running around,"  
senior offensive guard Jim  
Jones said. "You don't like to  
see that on your home field."  
Whereas the Eagles came to South Bend in 1999 with a for­ 
midable defense, a 7-2 record  
and a No. 25 national ranking,  
this year's squad has struggled  
against quality opponents.  
Their 6-3 record includes wins  
over teams with a combined  
15-33 record. Rut the Eagles  
have lost by an average of  
nearly 17 points a game  
against West Virginia (4-4 on  
the season), Virginia Tech (8­ 
1) and Pittsburgh (5-3). Boston  
College has won two straight,  
including a 31-3 victory over  
Temple on Saturday.  
"They cost us a bowl game  
[last year]," senior tight end  
Jabari Holloway said. "As far  
as them celebrating that's  
going to come when you beat  
Notre Dame. Beating Notre  
Dame is a life-crowning  
achievement."  
And for Holloway, one he  
hopes does not occur again in  
2000.  
Hassefbeck out for game  
One year after playing  
arguably the best game of his  
career, Boston College quar­ 
terback Tim Hasselbeck will be  
a spectator on Saturday. The Eagles starter suffered  I l  
an medial collateral ligament injury in his left knee during the second quarter against  l I I I  
Temple. On Monday. Boston  I I  
Colllege coach Tom O'Brien  
said "whether it's two weeks, three weeks, four weeks, we don't know right yet. But he definitely cannot play this weekend." Brian St. Pierre, who threw  I l ' l  
for 118 yards and a touchdown  
after replacing Hasselbeck on  
Saturday, will start against the  
Irish. St. Pierre, a sophomore,  
has played in all nine games  
this year and has completed  
30-of-45 passes for 369 yards.  
He has also rushed seven  
times for negative 17 yards  
and a touchdown.  
"It's not like he's a typical  
backup quarterback," Davie  
said. "Anytime you lose your  
starting quarterback it's diffi­ 
cult but I think in their situa­ 
tion. they have about as close  
to having two starters as any­ 
one in college football does."  
Basselbeck completed 20-of­ 
30 passes for 272 yards and  
gained 60 yards on 15 carries  
in last season's victory.  

-----------· 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 7, 2000 
November, BCS adds excitement to college football 
It felt like Bowl Championship Series season. 
When I woke up on Saturday morning and felt the 85 degree heat hanging in my room like a Joey I lildcbol<l punt. I thought I had magi­cally been t1own to Miami or Tempe during the night. 
Even though the warm weather just turned out to be my radiator gone mad. there was a lot that went on in col­lege football that kept all or us asking the same question we've been asking all year: What's going to happen next'! 
Going into Saturday's games, them were only three unde­feated teams left in Division f: Oklahoma, Virginia Tech, and Texas Christian. Coming out of Saturday, the only one left was undisputed No. I Oklahoma. 
Before its 27-24 loss to San Jose State, TCU had only been able to climb to No. 9 in the BCS rankings because of a schedule slightly softer than a 

Ted Fox 
Pox Sports ... 
,1most 
vat of goo. Many of us won­
dered how fair the BCS coul.d 
be if the Horned Frogs went 
undefeattid but never got a 
shot at the title. 
Fortunately for the coordina­tors of all the hoopla. this isn't an issue anymore. As for TCU. it goes from legitimate BCS contender to third place in the WAC, awaiting a game against UTEP with huge Holiday Howl implications. 
The other previously unde­feated team, BCS No. 2 Virginia Tech, went down to south Florida to square off with BCS No. 5 Miami in what was in effect the Big East championship game. 
Miami won easily, 41-21, snapping a five game losing streak to lhe !Iokies. However, the man many regard as the best player in college football, Virginia Tech quarterback Michael Vick, was only able to play about one ineffective quarter because of an ankle sprain suffered against Pitt the week before. 
Could the Hurricanes have won if Michael Vick had been healthy? That's one question we'll never really know lhe answer to. 
But another interesting question involving the 'Canes is looming bigger and bigger with each passing week: could Miami be No. 2 in both the 



how can you keep 
. ? 
The truth is, a little of your time can make alifetime of difference. Because kids with something to do are less likely to do drugs. You can help. For more information on drug prevention programs in your community, call or visit: 
1 877 KIDS 313 www.youcanhelpkids.org 
Office of National Dmi:; Control Policy 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
"The Best of Both Worlds" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Wednesday, November 8, 2000 102 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
With Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs 

Coaches and AP polls, beat Florida State head-to-head, and still have to sit back and watch as the Seminoles take the No. 2 spot in the "national championship" game at the Orange Bowl'' 
It's possible. Miami already beat FSU. They're already No. 2 in both polls. 
But going into this weekend, they were still two spots behind their in-state rivals in the BCS rankings. Florida State didn't do them any favors either, pasting BCS No. 13 Clemson 54-7. 
But for all of this to ever become an issue assumes a lot, too. Just look at all the stuff that could still happen. 
I said tho Miami-Va. Tech game was "in effect" the Big East Championship game because those two squads are bothinthetoptenin the country. But while Virginia Tech's conference season is over. Miami still plays Hoston College, Syracuse, and. proba­bly most dangerously, the fre­quent flyer mile gathering air show of Pitt. One loss and the BCS is off the hook again. An improbable two losses and the llokies win the confornnce crown. After all, Miami is a team that beat Louisiana Tech by a lopsided 11 points last week. 
Even if none of that hap­pens, Oklahoma and Nebraska could meet up again in the Big 12 Championship. Oklahoma scored 31 unanswered points to win the first meeting 31-14. Huskers don't forget that sort of thing. 
Then, you would have the three way debate between Miami. Nebraska and Florida State to see which two would go to the national title tilt. That is, of course, assuming Florida State beats anothor in­state rival in Florida, who also has a shot at the Orange Howl. 
Confusing'? Yes. Fun? You bet. 
Where does all this leave Notre Dame? They're moving up. thanks to games like Northwestern's win over Michigan, a 54-51 final that featured more scoring than a lot of Big Ten basketball games. 

Had TCU been able to climb to sixth in the BCS standings and had N·otre Dame been able to win out, then some sort of contractual thing would have given the Irish one of the at­large bids in the BCS. Notre Dame can still win out. but the computers don·t take TCU's losses to unranked teams too well. 
Nine wins will most likely place the Irish in the top 1 O of the BCS, so hopes for a Fiesta or Sugar bowl berth arc still alive. If not. then maybe they'll grab a return trip to the Gator Howl after a one year hiatus. 
Unless, of course, Big East No. 2 and I leisman hopeful Michael Vick go there. But then again. that assumes Miami wins out. 
So many possibilities, and they leave only one possible conclusion: college football is cool. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS J.Rusr SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
TIAA-CREF provides financial solutions to last a lifetime. 
Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out 
how those assets can provide you with a comfortable retirement is quite another. 
At TIAA-CREF, we can help you with both. You can count on us not only while you're saving and planning for retirement, but in retirement, too. 
Just call us. We'll show you how our flexible range of payout options can meet your retirement goals. 
With TIAA-CREF, you benefit from something few ·other companies can offer: a total commitment to your financial well-being, today and tomorrow. 
*Note: Availability may depend on your ernployer's retirement plan provisions contract Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59½ may be sub1ect to restrictions, and may also be subject to a 10% additional tax. Additional restrictions also apply to the TIAA Traditional Annuity. 
Callus ';J'
afree 
consultation . 

\iVith TIAA-CREF, you can receive:* 
• Cash withdrawals 

• 
Systematic or fixed-period payments** 

• 
Interest-only payments 

• 
Lifetime income payments** 

• 
A combination of these 


..Guaranteed by our claims-paying ability. 
CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT1  

1 YEAR AS Of 6/30/00  5 YEARS 6/30/00  SINCE INCEPTION 4/29/94  

CKEF Growth is one of many CREF Vllriable annuiucs. 
1-------------------------------· -­
Ensuring the future 

11.800.842.2776
for those who shape it."' 

www.tiaa-cref.org
ii I 
!--------------------­
For more complete information on our securities produm, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest 1. Due to current market volatility, our securities products· performance today may be less than shown above. The invest· 
J 
ment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflects past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original prKe upon redemp­tion. • TIAA·CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co. New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-C REF·0B/03
Application Deadline: December 1 
For Fall 2001 -Spring 2002 AY 2001-2002 


Tuesday, November 7, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER

TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE

FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

Fox TROT BILL AMEND 

-
n 
THIS MUSIC WE'RE YOU l>oN'T 
LISTENING WHAT'S THIS To ... IT'S SACl<STREET 1NcRED1BLE! BoYS CD CASE DOING OUT?
J I ,.:, 
J') I '\,
VG 

When the uninformed college student wants to exercise his rights ... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Friend of 1 Literary lioness Franc;ois 5 Titicaca, por 31 Deviate from a ejemplo direct course 9 Person with a 34 dictum handle 36 Dean's world 13 People to hang 38 Nick at with 
39 Like Cheerios 14 Wear down 
41 With 12-Down, 16 Edison's middle 
a modem idler name 
42 No longer chic 

17 "The jig _I" 
44 Winner's crown 

18 Cliffs _ (study 
46 Bat wood 

aids) 
47 "How about

19 Exclamation 
that!"

after "What are you waiting for?" 
48 Songwriter Coleman et al. 

20 December singer? 
49 Gridiron divs. 23 Not play lair SO Boo follower 24 Blazed a trail 52 Word with house or mouth
25 Hollywood Indian's word 54 Fast-food 28Young_ addict? (tads) 60 Drop off 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


61 Triangular formation 62 The Crimson 1a Tide, for short 63Takedown (humble) 64 _ acid (soap ingredient) 65 They have pull 66 Kind of monster 67 Caen's river 68 Cheny variety 
DOWN 
1 Colossal, filmwise 2 Punishment unit 3 Talk like a 
tosspot 4 Savory jelly SOne who 
blossoms in spring? 6 Bouquets 7 Reached 
8 Poems with "To" 
in their titles 9 Training group 1 O Sunday brunch regular? 
11 Sermon topic 
12 See 41-Across 
15 PC "oops" key 
21 Cage's "Leaving Las Vegas" co-star 22 "Put on itl" 
40 Enzyme suffix 
43 Lots
25 Accord maker 
26 Drama awards 45 Urgent notation since 1955 48 Hardly a Mensa 27 Helper with 
candidate sprains and 51 Horseshoe­bruises? shaped letter 29 Duffer's dream 52 Leer-y one? 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Christopher Daniel Barnes, Toni Mitchell, Billy Graham, Al Hirt, JudyTenuda 
Happy Birthday: You can get ahead this year if you focus on fin­ishing what you start. You will not tolerate others getting in your way and will move forcefully in your cho­sen direction. This is a year to meet new people and form new friend­ships. Otange will be tempting, and taking a chance will become second nature. Your numbers: 10, 14, 23, 31, 36,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Co­operating with co-workers will lead to a better working relationship. Romantic encounters will be stressful if you haven't been completely hon­est about your past commitments. 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Attend a social event and focus on meeting those who can help you get ahead. You will have to be careful not to forget your loved ones. Ne­glect will lead to upset. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your best efforts will come through work. To accomplish the most, it is best to work with your peers. Love interests may develop through work-related 
events.000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your interest in learning something new may lead you back to school. You will benefit through the courses you take, regardless of whether or not you use your new skills to make money. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get busy turning your home into the place you want to live in. Don't let jealousy lead to an unpleasant situation. Unusual investments will lead to profits. 000 

Birthday Baby: You are tender, emotional and giving as long as you like the company you are with. If you are unhappy or don't get your way, you can become headstrong and willful. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) · (Q 2000 Universal Press SyndJcale 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will meet new romantic partners while on vacation. Your ability to converse with knowledge and wit will attract intelligent ,individuals. 
0000 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't take financial risks. Losses are evi­dent, and joint Ventures appear to be totally unreliable. Matters pertaining to your career will be most favorable. Look into the possibility of a better position. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get in touch with yourself. You need to do some soul-searching and make the necessary adjustments to your attitude. Self-realization and creative projects can be satisfying and enlightening. 00000 
SAGl'ITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't avoid the truth. You can make alterations that will ease the tension at home. Look into moving to larger quarters. You can benefit financially through real estate. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You need a change. Toin groups that will spark some enthusiasm in you. Don't be in a hurry to blame your loved ones for things they possibly had no part in. Do a little research. 
00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Don't waste time. You can make changes that will lead to a better professional position. Go for inter­views or talk to your boss about a promotion. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your thirst for knowledge will lead you down exciting new avenues. Try not to disagree with colleagues. Work quietly behind the scenes and refrain from pushing your beliefs on others. 
000 



Honored 
Junior outside hitter Marcie Bomhack was named this week's Big East. player ofthe week .

PORTS 
page 15 

O
THE page 20 BSERVER Tuesday, November 7, 2000 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Notre Dame splits weekend du,al meets 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sporrs Writrr

-
Losses aren't taken in stride on the men's swim team. 
After dropping their second dual meet of the season 136.50-101.50 Friday night al Oakland University, Saturday's dual with University of Western Ontario became a chance to avenge Friday's loss. 
And avenge they did. 
Hising to the challenge, the Irish shut out Ontario in a swift 103-62 final tally. notch­ing a victory and solid season times that af'flrmed thcv have the speed they ·need. 8uuncing back from Friday, the Irish upped the win col­umn to go 3-2 on the season. 
"Coming off the loss the previous night, we knew it would be important to main­tain our focus," said senior co-captain Hyan Verlin. "It's easy, especially coming off a loss, to be down and be nega­tive -the guys realized that we had to put the loss behind us and use this meet as a new opportunity for a win. 
"We realized that every race is a battle," Verlin said. 
The Irish posted individual victories in six ol' 11 events Saturday. with Verlin leading Lhe way, winning two events for the Irish. Securing a first place finish in the 800-meter freestyle in 7 minutes, 57.56 
see MENS/page 15 


WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Women suffer first dual-meet loss in two years 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sports Writer 
Losing isn't a familiar feel­ing for the women's swim­ming and diving team. 

They've won Big East Championships four times. It had beon nearly two years since the team had experi­enced a regular season loss, resulting in last year's unde­feated dual meet run. Going into Saturday's dual against Purdue Universitv, their 2000-2001 season.had the makings of another undefeat­ed dual meet campaign. 
But Purdue had other plans. Heady for the No. l 8 ranked Irish squad. the Boilermakers handed the Irish their tirst dual meet loss 

in two years, edging them Olympian Ginger Lakos. beat 161-138. the Irish in a new pool 
"The meet was more impor­record. finishing in one tant to them than we real-minute, 46.20 seconds. The ized," said women's head Boilermakers victory cracked c o a c h the team's rac­Bai I e y ing strategy,
''The meet was more
Weathers. which was to 
"There's a important to them than soundly defeat 
natural rivalry w i t h Purdue and Notre Dame that carries into all the sports. It was a for them." 
Purdue got 

we realized. It was a Purdue in the first five races.
critical meet for them" 
said senior co­captain Bailey Weathers Kristen Van Saun.
head coach 
critical meet off early, 
defeating the Irish from the get-go in the 200-yard med­ley relay. The Purdue team, which featured Sydney 

"We're not 
used Lo losing that medley relay," Van Saun said. "It kind of ruined our game plan. We had talked about how they were going to be ready -we knew we had to go in and win the first four or five events and try to jump 
on them from the beginning." 
The Irish refused to give Purdue an easy victory, how­ever. combining the talents of' underclassmen and newcom­ers to notch solid perfor­mances. 
Freshman Marie Labosky took the 1,000 freestyle in 10:14.61, and earned another win for the Irish in the 200 individual medley in 2:06.46. Junior diver Heather Mattingly put on a spectacu­lar show from the boards. clinching both the one-and three-meter competitions. Individual winners included junior Allison Lloyd in the 100 yard breastroke. Van Saun in the 500 yard freestyle and junior Kelly Becking in the 200 yard 
see WOMEN/page 17 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Time glitch costs Belles 
new records 
By JANEL MILLER 
Sports W'riter 
Sometimes, every second 
counts. 
Evrry second certainly count­ed this weekend for the Belles swimming and diving team, who faced off in two separate dual meets with t h Cl University of Chicago and t h e University of Western Ontario. Clinching close races, the Belles defeated UIC Friday 149-69 with some record-shattering swims. But while the Belles cut the seconds where they neednd to, the new records didn't count. 
A glitch in the timing system Friday night at Bolls meant all races would be manually timed with a stopwatch. instead or the techonologically superior touch­pad system. The touchpad sys­tem allows a swimmer to be timed "on the touch" in the water. 
While the stopwatches revealed th at the Belles 400­yard medley relay team had broken last year's record, because it wasn't a touchpad finish, the record was thrown out. 
"With watch timing, times can be slower than actual or faster. It all deptmds on the person with the watch," commented Gretchen llildcbrandt, head coach. 
The 400 yard medley relay te.am of Lane Herrington, Lauren Smith, Megan Hamsey, and Colleen Sullivan thought their first place finishing time of four minutes, 15 seconds was a ncm· school record. 
But under the circumstances the 11 second faster time coukl not be counted. Smith, Hamsey, and Sullivan joined with Chloe Lenihan to challenge the record again Saturday, but missed by .6 seconds, 
Ramsey faced the timing chal­lenge again in her individual race Friday night in her 200 yard butterfly. 
lier lirst place time of 2:15.87 broke the 1995 school record bv over three seconds, but was dis-­carded because of the timing 

sec SMC/page 16 

vs. California MU All-Stars Women's College Cup 
•:;,::;,•·,,: 

. •... Saturday, 7:30 p.m. Second round 
SPORTS • f; 
Saturday, TBA Cross country NCAA District IV Championships
ATA 
in Ypsilanti, Mich. 

at Boston College vs. Boston College 
Friday, TBA /.:.-:-, Saturday, TBA 
Saturday, 3:30 p.m. 
GLANCE ~ 

.• 





