
ROTC at NO? 
Happy Easter 
Lecturers Baxter and Whitmore explore the 


Thursday
This is the last edition of The Observer until 
role r,frnilitary I.raining on campus, as 
Wednesday, April 26. 
well as perspectives on warfare. 
Have a safe and happy holiday. 
APRIL 20, 
News . page 3 
2000 
THE 


VOL XXXlll NO. 126 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Notre Dame freshman lake Cram has spent the past year trying to move on after the tragedy at Columbine High School. But for Jake and his 
classmates, the memories live on like 


Pictures of the Past 
mountains lo gi•t away. A lot of By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
1wopl1• want to fnrg11t. want .it lo go News Wm~r 
away. but it won't." Columbine High School is a dif•

l'ac:kPrl away in .lakP Cram's high lhent place lhan il was a yPar ago:
sd11rnl scrapbook are pirlurcs of art has replaced Lhe bullet holes in
smiling graduatPs. l'rePzing tlw cul­tlrn concrete, lock!irs line ltrn walls
minalion of a four-y(~ar journny in that once W('r<' windows to thP
a !lash or film. Yl'llow LassPls and library. But undPrn11ath the new
shimmf'l'ing royal blue caps and paint and sparkling 11xterior, lhe
gowns rolw post-adolPS('(!nt schol­taintl'd memories of a year ago still
ars, bPami11g with tlw pridP of ttwir lingl•r in tlw hearts of the survivors.
arcmnplishmPnls. Today will lrn Jake's third return to
Tiu• picturPs Columbirw sincn the shootings. but 
arc· not unlikP See Also 
it nnvcr gets any nasicr.

thos<• in any "Hope, pain "Hight allf\r. nobody evP.r wanted
otlwr high sl'hool gradu­mark Columbine lo go back. ever," Jake said. "I 
didn 'l think I rnuld ever go back

atP·s mPmnry anniversary" tlwn'. Slowly. as !Werything hap­
rapsul(•. Th<'y 
page g 
1wned and we found out what [Eric

l!dl a story of' llarris and Dylan Klebold'sl plan
f"ri1•11dships. was, WP said 'No, we're not going
ac(·omplishnwnts and SWTPSs. But lo let ttwm havP what llrny wanted.'
und<'rni•al!J llw picturPs. lw!Jind 
If \\'!' didn't go bark, we WPre let­

tlw smiling graduatPs. lay maga­ting Hmm have what they wanted."
zi1ws llrnl ll'II anolhN story. ,\s a Jake"s first return was to collect
gracluatl' ol' tlw Columbirw I ligh his belongings just weeks after the
Srhoo! Class or 1<JIJ9. tlwst• maga­shootings. With his parents on
zines tPll tlw story of ilw day .lakn nither side of him. he spent an hour
\rntrtwd I:i of his dassmatPs lose in the building walking through the
llwir livns -tlw day lw rwarly lost hallways, still untouched.
his own. "It was rnally scary ... nothing
Today. on tlw onP-yPar annivPr­had changed. There was still blood
sary nf' Llw l.iLtlPLon shootings. .Jakt\ and bullet holes 1w1ffywlrnre. Tlwre
and his dassmatl's will return lo wen• half-eaten sandwiches in tlw
Columbinl' lligli Sdrnol !or a cafettffia. In the parking lot. there
llll'morial s1•rvi1·1· that will bring wen' shoes t'VPrywhen\. It was
bai:k thP horror or /\pril 20, 1999. rPally hard to be in tlrnre."
'vVhilP thP mt•morit!S arP now Even afwr a summer or recon­
parkPd away in a srrapbook. they strurtion, some still will not return.
an• anything but old l'or tlw '\lotrc While some students, Jak,~ includ­
Danw f"rPshman and his C'lass­ed, watdwd the re-opening of the
m,ttPs. building in August. it is still impos­
"It d1ws11't s1•1•rn lik,, a yPar al sible for some memb(1rs of the class
all.'" .lak1• said. "Sonw kids will bP thPrP, otlwrs an• going up to thn see LITTLETON/page 4 
------------~~----_-_-_-_-_-_-~-------=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=---­

---_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ -_ -_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_---=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=-----=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--= 
Rape survivors: ResLife system proves ineffective 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY  "These peopl<' did ·the right thing' for me,"' she said,  how orten is that going to hap­pen'?'" she asked, noting with  do everything lhey can make that decision."  not to  Tho consequrncP or that trust is that when thn pannl chtHJS()S  
News hliwr  explaining her  hindsight  In thH c.ases of thn two friends  not to  take action, the victim  
-Syst1•ms t:urrl'ntly in place for  d,~cision to encourage l"nl­ "/ don't understand how  that her attacker's  whom Pienovi encouraged to pursue channels in Residence  bogins to think that may be the right decision, said Pienovi.  
addrnssing rapP and sexual assault through the Office of Hesidnncn Lifo ai'I' inappropri­Htl' and inadequate, sald rape  low victims lo pursue actinn through Rf'sidencn Lifo..  they can sleep at night ... They raise these girls' hopes up ... and then  admission that sh.e refused his advancns  Life, the panPl took no action. leading her to the conclusion that the system provides vic­tims with a false belief that jus­ McGeever said that one Residence Life official told her that "the only reasons women go through ResLifc is that they  
survivors Kori Pienovi and KPlly Mdiecver at a panel dis­cussion Wednesday.  But after lowing cases of  fol­the two  they say. ·we found no violation ofDulac.'"  I i k e I y forced the panel to  tice will be served. "They say that thern's this ranie [of offenses] and that  wanted revenge or that they wanted to heal themselves." Tho Oftico of Residence Life  
Pienovi, who  was  raped in  such  victims  dismiss  there's this range of punish­ justifies its system on the basis  
1997 and pursuod disciplinary  through  the  Kori Pienovi  him.  ments, but from what I've seen.  that it is not a  legal organiza­ 
action against her alleged assailant through Hrsidence  process. she is no longer con­ rape survivor  "They [don'tl find  it's all or nothing," she said. "I don't understand how they can  tion, according io McGeevnr. "!They say that] ResLife is an  
Lifr. (!xplained that she initially  vinced.  [them]  sleep at night  ...  They raise  academic system [and that vic­ 
believPu Urn systPIII  was ade­ "As far  as  l"ve s111-m,  the only  guilty because they don't want  these girls' hopes up  ...  and  li ms shouldn't] come them f'nr  
quatn becauso lwr attacker was  way they'll kick someon11 out is  to  ...  They do it only if they  then they say. 'We found  no  
dismissed from the University.  ii" he'll admit she said 'No.' and  have lo," she said. "They will  violation of DuLac.'"  see SURVIVORS/page 6  


--------------A--~------------...-------~--.. 
~ 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, April 20, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Move over, Playstation 

Up-Up-Down-Down-Left-Hight-Left-Right-B-A­Start. 
A few of you might have just looked at that first line and wondered if there was some sort of a typo. But I am willing to bet that the majority of readers (especially male readers! saw that line and immediately one thing sprang into your minds: 30 lives in "Contra." 
How is it that I (and many others Domers) can remem­ber these fairly complicated codes to video games that they haven't played in years yet tlm names of my profes­sors slip my mind on a regu­lar basis? 
Memories of the glory of 8-bit Nintendo came flood­ing bark to me a l'ew weeks ago when my friend brought his Nintendo back from home and hooked it up. Soon t.hc llashier, more technologically advanced and more complicated Playstation and N-64 wcrn discarded in favor of the simplicity, yet bril­liance. of 8-bit Nintendo. 
"Blades of Steel," "The Legend of Zelda" and "Mike Tyson's Punch Out'' quickly replaced eat­ing. sleeping and sometimes bathing on our list of priorities. Amazingly enough, all the secrets and codes and tricks that we had learned as chil­dren remained vivid in our minds. 
Despite having not helped Little Mac win the title since before Buster Douglas knocked out Tyson in Japan, we could still remember how to stop Great Tigers' "Tiger Punch" and how to neutralize Bald Bull's "Bull Charge." 
We still remembered where to bomb to find heart containers and the "Master Sword" in "Legend of Zelda." We still remembered how to kill those stupid dinosaurs in level two of "Zelda." 
Why have the tactics of "Punch Out" and "Zelda" remained with me much longer than the answers to most school assignments? Why is 8­bit Nintendo so enduring? 
Maybe it was the pure and simple game inter­face that was so appealing. There were only two buttons and the game pad was a simple rectan­gle -not the space mutant boomerang with God-knows how many buttons that is the N-64 controller. 
The games were simple too. Usually you could only go one direction -right. You just kept walking right and shot, kicked or stomped all the bad guys until you reached the end. 
Maybe it is this simplicity that led us to stop playing sports games on Playstation and N-64 with its professional players and complicated stats to instead focus on "Blades of Steel" where icing and penalties are disregarded. 
Video games when my friends and I were young were simple. They weren't excessively vio­lent or full of images unsuitable for young chil­dren. The "Today" show wasn't doing special reports on whether or not Mario's stomping of Koopa Troopas was leading to school yard vio­lence. Eight-bit Nintendo was just simple and pure and wonderful. 
So while my friend who claims that "The Legend of Zelda" is one of the top five things ever to happen to him is a little nuts, there still was something special about that old 8-bit system. 
007-373-5963 
Remember that one? 
Time for Little Mac to face Tyson again. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Erin LaRuffa  M:icr Nania  
Kelly Hager  Graphics  
Courtney Boyle  Jose Cuellar  
Spores  Production  
Katie McVoy  Lauren Berrigan  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Pete Richardson  

Tho Ohmver (USPS 59') 2-4000) is pnbli,hed Monda)' rhrough Friday exccpc during ex:ml :md v:1c:nion period"i. The Ob..;erver is a mernber of the A.,uu.-i.ired Prtt.,.:. :\JJ rcprodw:tion righf., ar~ r~i.:rvcd, 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Thursday Friday 
. Event: Saint Mary's Wind . Good Friday: Mass l I a.m. and 1, 7 p.m.,
and Chamber Ensemble; 

Basilica; Stations of' the
7:30 p.m.; Little Theater, Cross, 7:15 p.m., Basilica;

Saint Mary's Celebration of the Lord's. Lecture: "E-Commercc Passion, 3 p.m., Basilica

in Warehousing Market," 7 p.m., Jordan Auditorium 
Saturday 

. Holy Saturday: Mass 1 I .am. and 7 p.m.. Basilica; Paschal Vigil Mass, 9 p.m .. 13asilica; Vigil, 8p.m.; Church of' Our Lady of Loretto, Saint Mary's 
Sunday 
. Easter Sunday: Mass 
11 :15 a.m. and 4::iO p.m.. Church of Our Lady of Loretto, Saint Mary's; Mass 8 a.m., 10 a.m.. noon, Basilica: Mass 6:30, 8, 9:30 and 11 a.rn .. Crypt 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Duke researchers find new use for old drug 
DUIHIAM, N.C. 
A drug primarily used to help people quit smoking may also reduce cocaine addiction, based on recent tests on rats. 
"This researr.h opens a new approach to the treatment of cocaine abuse, which has been resistant to treatment in general," said Jed Hose. chief of the Medical Center's Nicotine Research Program. 
Mecamylaminc, which has been available for nearly half a century, was originally used to treat high blood pressure and has been known to help smokers quit. 
Currently, the drug is under Food and Drug Administration review as a treatment for both smoking and Tourette's svndrome in r,hildren. 
Mecamylainine works by blocking nicotonic receptors in the brain that 


would normally release dopamine, the primary chemical involved in generating feelings of pleasure. 
An addicted individual's desire for cocaine is weakened when the drug cannot produce any feeling of plea­sure in the brain. 
Nicotine, cocaine and alcohol arc just a few of the drugs that increase dopamine in the brain. Mecamylamine's presence may 
affect the pleasure-inducing quali­ties of other drugs, including cocaine. 
"(MecamylaminP] indirnctly affects the system that cor,aine nor­mal fy stimulates," t~xplaincd Edward Levin, lead researcher and associate prof'essor or psychiatry and behavioral science. 
A paper about his research on the topic is currently being reviewed by several journals in the field. 
Levin predicts that this rnsearch will pave the way for the discovery of new addiction-fighting drugs that will reduce the side effects of treat­ment. 
"The results of' this study can be used to find and develop even bet­ter antagonists that are more spe­cific in targeting the sub-rer,eptors directly stimulated in drug addic­tion," he said. 

Dartmouth begins housing shift 
HANOVEH, N.H. 
Heavily endorsing recommendations made by a committee report, the Board of Trustees announced the culmination of the first phase of the Student Life Initiative launched in February 1999. Despite oppos­ing recommendations by the Student Assembly and the Coed Fraternity Sorority (CFS) Council, the Board threw its support behind steering committee recommendations such as tlrn removal ·or taps and bars from CFS basements, the continued moratori­um on the formation of new single-sex selective organizations, the discontinuation of the CFS Judicial Council and the move of rush to Winter term. The board also endorsed the development of an extensive residential life system, including the ideas of clusters and possibly common houses linked to each residential hall. The trustees acknowledged the importance of centralized dining and authorized an expanded student center, recreational center, f1at-floor space and renovations on campus dining facilities, including a dining hall on north campus. 
LOCAL WEATHER 


Duke joins NAACP in flag boycott 
DUHHAM, N.C. 

Red is not one or Penn State's school colors. But when they took the field against the Winthrop baseball team March 18-19. evnry Nittany Lion sported a red wristband in protest of the Confederate flag flying above the state capitol. That weekend. Penn State joined the growing list of sports organizations that have made some sort of' statement against the Confederate flag. The resistance has b(1en slowly build­ing since January, when the NAACP first announced the boycott. Some NCAA schools in the Philadelphia area, including Temple and Swarthmore, cancPlcd lacrosse and tennis matches in South Carolina. and various professional and national sports organizations have taken action. In addition, several prominent indi­viduals in the sporting world. like S1mma Williams. Lou Holtz and Terry Bowden have expressed tlwir support of' the boycott. Although the South Carolina state sen­ate voted last week to remove the 11ag l'rom atop tho statehouse, the NAACP is continuing the boycott because the bill hangs a Confederate flag at a monu­ment on statehouse grounds. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

~ -----~ 

C, 2000 AccuWeather, tnc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Prusuu:: 
® © 



High low Shower• Rain T-atorms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloud 
Atlanta  80  60  Las Vegas  80  58  Portland  67  47  
Baltimore  68  56  Memphis  78  57  Sacramento  73  50  
Boston  51  45  Milwaukee  46  36  St. Louis  71  58  
Chicago  57  38  New York  61  52  Tampa  85  65  
Houston  85  60  Philadelphia  68  55  Washington, DC 71  58  




Thursday, April 20, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Lecturers question ROTC program's place at University 

in efforts of upholding tho in regards to consri­By KIFLlN TURNER 
strength of tlrn U.S. defense is entious objection to Nt:w~ Writt·r 
another misdirected goal of moral aspects," said 
the militarv. said Baxter. Baxter. Opposition to 

Tlwrc• ,tr(' numerous rnasons "Arn not.there other ways to war or unjust prac­why '.\Jutrt: Dame should not give financial money to thes11 tices in war is not host the HPsnrv,)cl Of'J'irers studrrnts?" Baxter said. welcomed and is cer­Training Corps (HOTCl, Most students who joill the tainly not supported acrording to Fatlwr Michanl HOTC: do so to receive f'uncls to by the military, said Baxter, who lecturPd with pro­help pay for their education, Baxter. fessor Todd Whitmon• about said Baxter. who believes the There is a formal C:atholir Perspectives on HOTC percentages of students in process to declarP Wednesday night. HOTC receiving scholarships is conscientious objec­
ThP relationship bdwenn the m10ugh to make such a gener­tion to war. However. Univcrsitv and HOTC and its alized statemPnt. the process is long µoliciPs o·n recruiting soldiors "The University could come and comµlicated. for war is som<'what undPtPr­up with money not f'or military Although it normally milwd. said 13axtPr. service but for ecclesiastical results in the µlace­
"HOTC: constitutos an intru­service,·· said Baxter. "The ment of the soldier in sinn or an external authority HOTC curriculum lacks rigor­a non-combat situa­into tlw internal autonomy of ous training about cooperation tion, the opiion is tlw University," said Baxter. with 1wil." rarely pursued or lliring polic(es and protocol Furthermore, courses and recognized in the mil­am not tlrn ideas that itary, said Baxter. same as address the The military is not 
t h (\ "In war time, you do not morality of conducive to the laws University, want people questioning warfare should that the Church but it be a major teaches and is there­
orders, but what if those

instPad component in fore not in line with operates orders are immoral?" the ROTC cur-the ethical and moral TONY FLOYDThe Observer 
u n d (' r a riculum, said implications that the Father Michael Baxter and professor Todd Whitmore discuss the separate Michael Baxter Baxter. church fosters, said -Catholic·perspective on ROTC and how the program functions at Notre entity. "Prrparation Baxter. 
Dame.
priest

Faculty that students ROTC students are of' HOTC get here on likelv to break the a r fl pr i-campus is way moral law as a result of the and Tribalism as those that as the most morally consider­marily mnmbers of the mili­too abstract to provide mean­issue of morality lacking a exist in a ruthless realm of ate. tary rather than members of ingful and effective training presence in the military, he war where self-interest is the "[Secular Just War tlw acadPmy. They am not for battlefield situations," said said. only consideration. Traditionalists are] rooted in brought under departmental Baxter. This kind of training "In war time, you do not "All of us -non-combatant classical tradition of the cardi­reviPW as l'aeulty in other is endemic not only to ROTC want people questioning and combatant -are by rlefi­nal virtues, justice. prudence, departments an1, said Baxter. training. but it is endemic to orders, but what if those nition innocent, and all of fortitude, and temperance," lie addml that tlrn HOTC cur­military training in general, he orders are immoral?" said them -com-Whitmore riculum is not brought under said. Baxter. batant and said. rnview in tlw same way as tho "You do not know what it is Whitmore agreed with the even non­"One cannot kill another The just­other dcparlmen ts. said like to go to war until you go idea and stated that there combatant -war theory
person on behalfof

Baxt(~I'. to war," said Baxter, recalling should he more instrumental are not," can be sum­
the state as an act

"HOTC is in a wav that the discussions he had with com­room for discussing ethical s a i cl marized as rhurch is not -a~ extPrnal manding officers in the Gulf aspects related to war. Whitmore of oflove towards the the practicr, authority," said Baxtor. War who described their In addition, Whitmore pro­t h e 
person killed." of killing oth­

"Thi' HOTC program is. to training as simulated in the vided various theories and Triba]ists' ers in war as put it bluntly, is an appendage form of video games. expla nations for the institution mentality. an action to tlw IJoparlnwnl of' [)pf'1rnse," "There was a certain unreal­of war, ranging from waging Wars formed Todd Whitmore that is not said Baxtor. ltnplenrnnling ity to it," said Haxter. war centered on self-interest on these pre-professor always monntary incentives f'or ·,.ROTC docs not provide ade­to Pacifism. Whitmore identi­texts are wrong, pro­rl'ITUiting p,~opl1'. to join ROTC quate information and training fied the ideologies of Healism based on vided that the 


THE 
SUMMER 
SERVICE 
PR.OtECT 
University of Notre Dame 
• 
Three elective Theo Credits 

• 
Eight Weeks, $1700 Scholarship 

• 
Additional $1,181 in Americorps Award available 


CALL THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS WITH QUESTION AT 631-7867 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Over 30 Sites Open! 
,'!J Buffalo, New York -(Local Student) -(J Columbus, Georgia -Small home for homeless men -, Dallas, Texas -Brady Center for Kids -(male) -(J Delaware • Sojourner's Place (live on site) -(J Dubuque, Iowa -Camp for kids with physical problems ~ Ft. Wayne, Indiana -Matthew 25/Clinic for low income -, Ft. Worth, Texas -Habitat for Hwnanity/kids ~ Grand Rapids, MI -Clinic for Migrant WorkeIS (Spanish) (J" Harrisburg, PA -Interfaith Family Shelter ~ Houston, Texas -Catholic Charities ~ Kansas City, Kansas • Catholic Worker House (male) 
Don Bosco Center -variety ~ Kokomo, Indiana -Home for women (felllllie) ~ Marion, Indiana -Family Services/Emergency Shelter -(J Poughkeepsie, NY -Good Counsel Home for pregnant teens ., LaPorte, Indiana -Sharing Meadows/o;..i,iJltiucamp for adults ~ Muskegon, MI-Every Women's Place/Young teen program ., Nashville, TN -Ollllis Center for troubled teens e Northc:rn Michigan -Fr. Fred Foundation/Emcrg;ency services e Jacksonville, Florida -L' Arche Home e Rochester, New York -Home/clinic for pregnant teens ~ Peoria, Illinois -(local) Guardian Angel Home Odds) e Springfield, Massachusetts -Food Banlc eSan Diego, California -Disabilities/Job Training e San Francisco, California -Andre House (male) e South Dakota -Small shelters/reservation camp e Norwalk, Connecticut -Transitional shelter e Ventura. California -Emergency Services 


* Ifl'i!t~rest~d,..ple0;se conta_ct 
Craz~ F)tch in Audit & Advisory Services at 1-3686. 
national ideologies and cru­sades that have no definite end. 
"Your interest is never served and it tends to be more destructive," said Whitmore. 
On the other end of the spectrum of war ideologies, Whitmore cites Secular and Christian Just War traditiou as well as Christian Pacinsm war was declared by a legiti­mate authority on the grounds of just cause focusPd on attaining peace and justice. 
"One cannot kill anothr,r person on behalf of thl~ state as an act of love towards the person killed," said Whitmore in reference to Christian Pacifism. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 20, 2000 

Littleton 
continued from page 1 
of 1999 to confront what hap­
pened there. 
"A lot of my friends can't see Time; can't see what happened on April 20," Jake said. "The kids don't really talk about it that much. For me, I liked to read the Time articles because 1 wanted to figure out why. Everyone is looking for answers, but I don't think that there is one. Sometimes I just think this was supposed to happen at my school. and l can only hope something good comes out of it." 
Still, Jake says, a lot of his classmates just want to forget. Or maybe it's too hard to remember. 
April 20, 1999 
It was a normal day in choir for Jake, who was stressing about what he now calls "little things." Prepping for a test in his choir class, he remembers wor­rying about completing the exam. 
"After. I remember thinking why I worried about something so stupid," he said. 
But during the test, the 120 students who filled the choir room beard gunshots echo through the hallways, unidenti­fied at first. Brushing oIT the first few noises as nothing but a senior prank, the class suddenly realizr.d the situation was any­thing but a joke. Half of the class exited through a back door, while Jake and other classmates ran to a door that led to the hall­way. Fiv,~ f'eet away, Jake vvit­1rnssed Kl1>bold shooting at stu­dents running down the hallway. 
"He nevPr lookPd at me," Jake said. "My life flashed before my eyes right then. I knew this kid -l"d stayed at his house overnight when l was younger. I couldn't lmlieve it." 
Jake and 60 other choir mem­bers crammed into a storage closet. pushing a bookshPlf in front ol' the door for protedimi None of tlwm knew what would happen. 
Inside the pitch-black closet, the students could do nothing but listen !'or three and a half hours. Stilled by the sounds of continuous gunshots, yelling, lire alarms and l.Jomb explosions, 
their own frightened sobs and prayers tillnd the tiny closnt. And when the noises stopped, no one moved. 
In the silence, Jake's best friend, Matt Cromwell, pulled out a cell phone he had in his pocket and dialed his father, who was outside with other panicked par­ents in the parking lot. 
"His dad was talking to the police," Jake said. "He told us that the police wercn 't in the building yet. He told us 'Don't move, don't make a sound,' and to call back in 30 minutes." 
The cell phone was the only link to the outside world the group had during the crisis. Kept calm by Mr. Cromwell's assur­ances that the police knew where they were, Matt phoned his dad on regular intervals. But nearly two hours since the crisis began, students were rapidly los­ing composure in the storage closet. After a third phone call lo Mr. Cromwell revealed that SWAT teams were entering the building with caution due to bombs that were still active in the school, the panic level was still rising. 
"A couple girls passed out, and we all -girls and guys -took our shirts off because it was so hot in there," Jake said. "We lift­ed a few kids up through the ceiling to give us some room and air." 
Thrne hours later, there was a knock on the door. 
"We were all really scared, and didn't know what to do," Jake said. "Then they said it was the Denver Police. We opnned up the door and couldn't run any­where -they had a barrier." 
They pulled each stud1111t out of the closet one by one, holdiug a gun tn each studPnt's head and frisking them for weapons. 
"At the time it seemed rough, and we cou!dn 't be!.icvc they were doing that," Jake said. "Later we found out tlw SWAT guys hadn't f'ounrl Eric or Dylan, and they didn't know if they'd droppPd tl1Pir guns and hid liko an innocent kid." 
The lasl group to be evacuatl'd l'rom the school, the class dur.ked, sprinted. and fell to the floor i11 an effort to get out ol' Urn building. They raced past bullet holes in the wall. blood on the floor and the l'orpsc of' a class­mate. Finally reaching Urn exit, they made it to safety and sped 

away in the police cars awaiting beyond the door. 
Beginning recovery 

As lhe details began to unfold about the events of April 20 in the Columbine community, Jake and the students or Columbine High School would begin a jour­ney of healing that for some, still has not been completed. 
For Jake, it meant realizations of what was important. 
"The whole time I was in that room, and we felt our lives in danger, it really made me appre­ciate life," Jake said. "My friends and family were what was really important in the long run, and I really changed my outlook on life. Nothing really seemed to matter anymore ... I used to get stressed out about every little thing. but now I don't worry about the small stuff." 
But still plagued with memo­ries of April 20, Jake spun into a cycle of nightmares and weight loss that made his trau­ma visible. At the advice of his parents, he consulted his sports psychologist and b<igan dis­cussing tho events wilh her. When fall came and freshman orientation ut Notre Dame approached, the beginning of" college provirlcd a Wfllcomc rcpricvn. 
"I was kind of' happy tn got away," hn said. "But it was hard for mo not to bo around people that wont through it with mn. Everybody horn askml about it. They s,w your namn and 'Columbitrn' noxt to ii., and they want to know what hap­pt~ned. Ii. helped me deal with it, but there worn times I want­ed peopl(i likfl my friends back home." 
But being in South Bend may 
have allow1)d him to h(1al faster than those still in Littleton. Surrounded by memo­ries of the tragedy, a suicide by a parent or one or the victims and a lunchtime student shoot­ing, the tragedy continues in the community. 
"l have friends who am seniors [at Columbine]. and while the stuff that's gone nn there since the shootings has affected me, it's affected them even more. It's a lot easier for me to deal with it hem," he said. 
But he still struggles with his friends who have not recovernd, including Matt. Speaking to him once a week on extra cell phone minutes, he knows his friend's recovery has not gone as well. 
"He wouldn't go to counsel­ing," he said. "A lot of kids wouldn't. They thought they could deal with it on their own. I didn't think I needed to go, but I was glad I did. It definitely helped me a lot. I've progressed a lot more than he has ... but wc'rn a lot closer now. No one else knows what. tha:t experience was like." 
As of Wednesday, Matt was not set on going to the nrnmorials. 
'Tvc been trying to gi:t him to go, but he doosn't want to." Jake said. "I don't know if he'll b(~ there." 
When Jake returns to Columbine today, Matt and sfw­nral othr,r classmates may not be with him. But for Jake it is a part of healing, a part of moving on a11d a part or trying lo answPr thn lingering quPstion of "why." 
But as Im clos1is thn nrngaziiws that toll thn story from a. yPar ago and looks at the pictures of' studnnts rolwcl in shimnwring royal bllw gowns and yollnw tasslns, lw knows that Urn smilPs in tlrn pictures cnlebrate more than just diplomas. 
They celebratP survival. 


The DepadmeV\t of Wel-"mC\V\ al'\d Rv.ssial'1 Lal'19v.a9es aV\d Litel-"atv.1-"es col'\91-"atv.lates this yeal-" 1 s \-ViV\l'\el-"s of the Fv.lb,...ight TeachiV\9 .Assistal'\tships il'1 Wel-"mal'\y al'\d .Al;\stl-"ia al'\d of the DA.AD (Wel-"mC\I'\ .Academic €xchal'\9e Sel"vice) Dil-"ect Wl-"al'\t fol" post:-91-"adv.ate stv.dy iV\ Wel-"mC\1'1}:'. 
Fvdb~i9ht Recipie~ts: 
3o.d)!V\ M, BrickmaV\ (GermO.V\)!) ColleeV\ M, Kell}! (..:Ausfria) Rebecca A, Luv\V\ (Gerr"Y\C\V\}!) .Lcu,1rel A, Po.ffhol,\Se (Austria) StepheV\ G. Valdes (..:Al.,\stria) Catheri1-1e M, Vosswil-'1kel (..:Ausfrio.) 
DA.AD Di~ect a~a~+ Recipie~+: 
MiV\V\ie M. DaV\iels 
Col'\gl"'atv.latioV\S oh yol.--\r fiV\e accmnplish11'\el'\ts al'\d oh teceivi1-19 this ov1tsta1"1dih9 teco9hitioi" of yol.--\r achievetaehts! 



orld 
•I 
Thursday, April 20, 2000 COMPILED Fll0M THE OBSERVEH WlllE SERVICES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Ecuador landslide kills 9 
QUITO 

i\ landslid1• rausl'd by bnavv rains buried thre!' hom1•s in a rural itn\a along Hcuador's l'aci!ir coast Wednesday, killing ninn pooplo. ol'f'i<·ials said. s,,vnn oth1ir hom1's near the Lown ol' OuPvt>do. 'H) rniltis snuthwPsl of' thP rapital. '(Juito. wcrP <lamagPd by the avalanch1~ of mud and rock. Among LhP vic­tims wen• six nrnmbPrs of a family who WNO buried in tlw two small houses they lived in at th1• basP. of a hillside. Th,1 Hed Cross said. Eruador. whirh is near tho end or its S1•µt1m1lrnr-May rainy Sf!ason. has b(H111 hit in tlw last Wf1f'k hy nearly nonstop showers along UH\ mast and in the ('("rntral highlands. Landslitfos in ()uito. which lies in a vallfly bPtwPnn two mollntain ranges, h,LVI' claimed th<' lives or at lra:-;t 15 people this month. 
D'Alema resigns as Italy leader 
HOt\lE 

l'n~mif'r Massimo l)'Alema. tlH\ first 0x­Communist to lead Italy. rPsig-ncd Wednesday, sPlting thP stag<' l'or a rww prcmi('r or th(' dnction ol' a new parlianwnt. D'Al<1ma !waded a ll'ft-n•nt<'r gowrnnwnL. and PrnsidPnt Carlo i\zPglio Ciampi said lw will bf'gin two days of ronsultalions Thursday with Italy's political !Paders on how pro<·rPd. Ciampi can ask someonr pfsp from th1• <'Pt1tPr-lrf't lo try to f'orm a 1ww govl'rnnwnl. hr. can call immedi­atP PlPctions. or can appoint a nonpolitical <·aretakPr to lnad until sclwdul<•d dc,ctions in Llw spring of 2001. l)'i\lrma's consnrvative opposition. emboldPrwd by its victorious showing in regional races over thr. wrr.kend. has bP1•n prPssing l'or Parly Plr.(·tions -some­thing tlw fra(·turl'd and dPbilitatrd rnnter-left d!'l·ads. 
Leader backs AIDS policy 
JOI I.\NNESBUHG. South /\frir.a 

In a ktlPr to world lnaders published \V1•dncsday. l'n\sidPnt Thabo MbPki rompared tlw criticism of his J\Jl}S policiPs to thl\ cen­sorship ol' political idl'as und<'r aparthl'id. Mb(\ki also arguNI that sine<' I IIV. tlrn virus that rausPs ,\fl)S, is spn'ad mostly through lwtProSPXlml contact in Af'ri<'a. the continent's probkms arc' uniqtH'. "In tlw Wr,sl, IIIV-AIDS is said to bP largPly homosPxually transmit­L!•d. il is reporl<'d that in Afrka. inr.luding our countrv. it is transmitted heterosexually," said th(i lr.ttr,r, dawd /\pril 3. "Accordingly. as Afri<'ans. wn haw to ctr.al with this uniquely t\frican catastroplw." Presidential spokc,sman Parks Mankah Ian a said Wednesdav that Mb(\ki SPnt tlw lntt<•r to Prnsident Clint(~n and otlwr world l!!ad1•rs "to nxplain his position bPcausP the rPports that have been in the nwdia haw eithPr bPen misleading or inaccu­ratl'." 
lihi1Milti@Wf41 
Dow ·1~~~2} 
JONES ... &.x 7 
Nasdaq: 3i06.4 l 


-87.16 
N,SE 6.33.27 
-I 5-1 
S&P 500: ('om poiill' 1427A7 
\'olume:

10674.96 18.539.342.(,10
-1-1 14 
VOLUME LEADERS 

!:Qtll!:AC:iX Ils;'.U!i ~ ~ll.6W.t ' ClllNGI 211U:E CISCO SYSTEMS csco --4.52 -3.1300 6E. .12 8R1S'l'Ot.-NYER SQ BNY -2l.7ti: -1.•LHH,0 so ,91 INT'EL CORP IN1'C _, ,71 -9.94.00 119. 06 TftAC'K llATA CORP TRAC •ll .60 +0.-11.n 2 .47 LUC'BN'!' TBC'H lNC +5.91 1'3. 50-00 62, 75 QUAl..CmlM INC "" 1.:..4. 75
QCOM +2.21l 1-2. 5625 N:ft,.SOAQ lOO sai,.R QQQ -3 .OS -2. 81.00 S!,.19 M.lC'l\080FT COR.P MSF'I' -2,l:2 •1. 8725 78 .69 
,-,ME.RICA ONLINE AOL •l.65 •l. 0000 01.75 ORA.CL&: C:OR.P ORC::L -5.5S -4. 'l775 74. 56 

Associated Press 
OKL\J-IOM/\ CITY 
Prnsident Clinton. mark­ing the fifth anniversary of the Oklahoma City bombing. promised today that "America will never forget" the pain and suffering inriicted by the deadliest terrorist attack in L'.S. his­tory. 
"There are places in our national landscape so scarred by freedom's sacri­fice that they shape forever the soul of America." the president said. "This place is such sar.red ground." 

Clinton made his remarks in a speer.h prepared for delivery at the dedication of the Oklahoma City National Memorial on the site of the explosion that ripped open the nine-story Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building on April 19, 1995 -exactly five years ago. An advance text was released by the White House. 
On a grassy slope where the building onr.e stood, 168 bronze and stone chairs represent the 168 Oklahomans who died. Nineteen of the victims were children. and their chairs are smaller than the others. At night. all the chairs are to be lighted. casting a gentle glow over the site. 
The president was to ol1i­cially open the memorial by untying symbolic colored ribbons: white for inno­cence, purple for courage, yellow for hope and blue for statehood. 
Clinton said that today also was the 225 anniver­sary of the beginning of the American Revolution. "The brave Americans we lost here 220 years later. 
though they were not fight­ing a war. were also patri­ots in service to their fellow citizens or children whoso promise keeps ,our old democracy forever young," the president said. 
"Five years ago. the cow­ards who killed them made a choice," Clinton said. "They chose to attack this building and the people in it, because they wanted to strike a blow in America's heartland -at the core of our nation's being. This was an attack on all America and every American." 
CANADA 

Police charge web suspect for mischief 
attacks. Inspector Yves Roussel of the much tramr that legitimate customrrs 
Associated Press 

Royal Canadian Mounted Police said wern unable to get through.
MONTREAL 

But despite his on-line boasts. he so The case and extr.nt of thA attacks. 
A 15-yP.ar-old boy working under 

far has only been charged in the which effectively shut down major
tho computer name Mn.fiaboy has 

attack on CNN. Web sites for hours al a time, gerwrat­
benn charged with two counts of mis­

The bov's name cannot be disclosed ed new businf'ss for many Internet 
rhief for disabling the CNN Internet 

under c:anadian law. As a youth security f'irms. Internet sit.cs that 
sitP !'or four hours, police said 

olfondor, he could be sentenced to up believed tlwir oporalions w,irc alrnady
Wr.dnesdav. 

to two yea.rs in prison if corwictcd. secure round th<\ll1S<'lvos hclplnss
Tho F!!b'. 8 attack was one of several 

H()ussnl saiu the joint invesUgation against tht' llood of attacks. 
on major international w,,b sites in 

continues and morf' arrnsts art• possi­U.S. Attornev GPnernl Jarrnt Brno 
n•<'Pnt. months that highlighted the 

ble. praised tht~ joi11t U.S.-Canadian i11v1~sti­
sPrnrity risks of the high-tPch age. 

Cyber-attarks in February against galion that led to thn arrrst and callrd 
Thn young susp!!ct -arrested 

CNN. Yahoo!. el3ay. Amazon.<·om, it a signal !'or hackPrs to beware. 
Saturday in a joint inVPstigation with 

ETrade and other major \V.ob silos "I bnlieve this rnc.l'nt brnakthrough
tlw FBI -boasted in lntPrneL chat 

inconvoniencf!d millions of' lntPrnPt dnmonstrntes our rapacity to -trark 
rorims l'n'quC'ntPd by hackPrs that hr 

usrrs. Called "denial ol' service." tho tlwm down wlwrPV('r they may bi·." 
was responsib!P for a number of' the 

altarks involvrd l1onding a sitr• with so lkno said. 
page G The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 20, 2000 
Survivors 
continued from page 1 
justice, because that's not they're there ror." she said. 
Only the accused can appeal a decision and a victim's chance of a favorable outcome are about as good from Residence Life as they are in the legal system, said Pienovi, who claimed that if the decision is in favor of the accused that Residence Life refuses to acknowledge the charges. 
"As far as they're concerned. if they decide 'No.' it's as if 
Both women said that under­reporting is a problem as well. Because her attack took place at another university, McGeever could not tile a com­plaint with Residence Life, and her experience was not record­ed as part of Notre Dame's 1 annual statistics. rurthermore, the University does not include reports to n~ctors, assistant rectors or resident assistants because they are considered to be functioning in a pastoral role, she explained. 
Though slrn could not accu­rately estimate the number of rapes that occur annually at Notre Dame, Pienovi is 

it never hap­certain that it
"By saying, 'If you come

pened," shf' is much
in here and don't say

said. explain­greater than ing that vic­that she said "No," you 're the number tims whose security
fine, you're off the hook. " 

cases she has reports. followed "I personal­have been Kori Pienovi ly know 12 told not to rape survivor people that 
contact Residence Life further after a panel had decided no violation had occurred. 
McGeever said that more education is needed. At the time of her assault she was not aware that she could report her 1997 rape and later choose not to press charges. 
Pienovi believes that Notre Dame's failure to discipline accused rapists except in cases in which the accused confesses is driven by monetary and social concerns. 
"It's all about protecting the image -they can either deal with the problem or cover it up," she said. "A lot of this comP.s down to money. Lawyers review the panel's decision, and they say that this legal stuff has nothing to do with it, but it obviously does." 
It is unrfrnsonable for the panel to refuse to take action without a confession, both ber.aus1! guilt is often apparent due to physical evidence not considered by Residence Life and b!wause ·very few women bring false accusations, accord­ing to Pienovi. 
"Statistically, 2 percent of women nationally make this up. They would be right more often if' they always took the girl's side, but they take the guy's side," she said. "By doing what they do, they're saying, 'If you r.ome in here and don't say that she said "No," you're line, you're off the hook."' 
arc my 
fri1rnds who 
have been raped," she said. "It's weird to me how often it happens and that nothing's being done about it." 
McGeever explained that when she pursued help through the University Counseling Center she found there was a waiting list. Though helpful, she explained that her coun­selor had such an enormous case load that she was never able to pursue her feelings in any depth during counseling sessions. 
But both victims feel that they have tried to make the best of their negative experiences. 
"I will never get over this ­it's something I've learned to incorporate into my life in lhc most positive way possible." said Picnovi, who noted the irony in her mother's urging that she attend Notre Dame instead of Duke because its crime statistics were lower. 
Pienovi's experiences with Residence Life have made her determirrnd to bring about. change in the system, and she has been told that there are a number of officials in the Offke of Residence Life who will be very happy to see her graduate, she said. But despite that, she feels obligated to make her voice heard. 
"Before I leave this school, something has to change," she said. "I can't see more girls get hurt like this." 

NEWS IN BRIEF 
Follett names O'Connor manager of the year 
Oak Brook. Ill. -Follett lligher Education Group announced that .Jim O'Connor, manager of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, has received tlrn P.R. Litzsi11gcr Ma11ager of the Y<1ar Award l'or service and op!lrational excellence. O'Connor was recently presented with his award in thn presence of his fellow managers at Follett's annual meeting in Orlando. "O'Connor and his colleaguPs have dedicated themselves to the opposite mission of being the employer and retailer of' choice by putting people first," said James Baumann. president of Follett lligher Education Group. "This award signifies a true commitment to people, especially our customers and colleagues. and to the highest opnrational standards." O'Connor was nomi­nated by his colleagues because or his commitment to providing a highly positive work envi­ronment and for creating an exciting store dedicated to serving the campus. 
Russo receives award for distinguished service 
Joseph Husso, director of Financial Aid, has received the Distinguished Service Award from the ~idwe~t Hegional Assembly of the College Board in recognition of his dedication to his profession 111 particular, and to the College Board. Russo came to Notre Damn as director of financial aid in 1978.after serving in a simil~r capacity at LllMoyne College and Genesee Community College, both m upstate New York. lie 1s a graduate of LeMoyne with a bachelor's degree in English, and he holds two master's degrees -in student personnel from Syracuse University and in education from the State University of New York. During Russo's tenure, Notre Dame has increased its scholarship aid to more than $27 million annually and now is able to meet the full dcmonstratnd financial need of all admitted students. Husso is a consultant to a number of organizations aside from the College Board, including the U.S. Department of' Education, and he currcntlv is editor of the Journal of Student Financial Aid. • 


Tf..uPSdaqs are students niqJ.t. Students receive 25% off meal p•ice witl-. IJOUP sfudt?nf I.D. 

UEI 

Mtchiono's. most unique Jininq e,itp,e,..;,vnce Locofed In fl.. bN-W••'f at fbe Hisfol"ic tOO Cenfer in MisLawalta (219) .257-f792 www.JOOcenfer.com 
ON SALE TOMORROW! 
I 

B.B. 
King ofthe Blues 
With Special Guest 
HENRY 
BUTLER 
SATURDAY at 8 p.m. 
MAY20 
MORRIS PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
TicKets at the Morris box office and selected Marjerek's Hallmark locations or charge by phone: 
(219) 235-9190 
or toll-free (800) 537-6415 

Thursday, April 20, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
STUDENT SENATE 
Financial board presents budget with one appeal 
remaining in their account from this year, and thus the board decided they did not need as much money, Reicher said. llowever, SUB representative Hecky Heglin said that the group had trind to bring Oliver Stone or Jerry Springer to campus and because these events fell through, SUB had money rmnaining in its account. 
One area of concern within SUB is the money allocated for concerts. Keenan senator Grant Gholson expressed concern with the acts that SUB is able to bring to campus for concerts and ques­tioned whether giving them more money would aid in getting large names to play hen). 
"The problem with concerts is that it is an overarching issue," Heicher said. "The University as u whole must work to get bigger names. We are not in a position to allocate enough money to Lring such an act in." 
"Basically we decided that one big concert is a bettor idea than two smaller ones. It is beyond our realm We simply do not have the money as a Student Union to put forth towards rent­ing the [Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center (JACC)]." she said. 
Other members or the 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used hL1oks bought and sold -25 Categories oi Books -25,000 Hardback and Parerhack 
bo,1ks in stock -Out-ot-Print search service: $2.00 
-Appraisals large and small 
OPEN NOON TO SIX TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 1027 E. WAYNE SOUTH BEND. IN 46618 (21 9) 232-8444 

By LAURA ROMPF 
Assisrnm '.'-lcws Edimr 
Tlw Financial Management Board prnsentml the 2000-2001 Studnnt Union Budget to tlrn Student Senat(i last night. Although only mw appeal was lilnd. tlwrn wen' sevpral arc'as qunstionml by various senators. 
"ThP financial board is made up or nine members and the group has beon togHther all year. Before we alltH:ated funds, WH nrnl with hall' ol' the organiza­tions asking l'or money." said KatiP BoichPr, studPnt union tWciSUl'lir. 
Tl111 Financial Manag11mi>nt Board m<,t with leaders or the groups in 15-minulP intnrvinws Sundav and llwn rnnductnd dis­cussio;is on when• money should 

Development 
New service available thru ND Express, Lower Level LaFortune 
Hours: Monday-Thursday ll:00am-5:30pm &8:30pm-12mid Friday ll:00am-5:30pm Closed Weekends 

Same day service if dropped off by I2n. 
go. Because The Shirt project grossed more money this year, the board had $20,000 more to allocatH. 
"We ded<led to create a tech­nology fund where on a three ynar rotation, different groups would receive new computers for thl'ir offices," Reicher said. "ln this day and age, there is a des­peratP need for Leclrnology and this fund will help organizations keep up." 
Onn controversy with the bud­get was that the Student Cnion Board's (SUBJ money was cut by $SS00 from last year. 
"We decided that ]giving that money to SUBI may not be the best way to usl' student funds ... We went through the budget us a collnctivc whole to make these decisions," Rt!icher said. 
SLR still has a lot of' money 



Great Opportunity for anyone living in the South Bend/Granger area this summer 
Help out a child with Special Needs! Many families 
Why start your day stuck in traffic? There's no such thing as rush hour at an EYA wilderness camp. Our youth counselors live and work in some of the most beautiful, natural settings in the eastern United States. Hike the Appalachian Trail. 
Orientation committee. "We are asking Admissions to find an extra $3500 and I simply do not know where they will get it." 
Reicher defended the Financial Management Board's position. 
"Transfer orientation is much like Freshman Orientation and thus we feel that admissions should pick up the bill," Reicher said. 
However, McDonald said that the money was necessary and if the financial management board did not give it to Transfer Orientation. they may not receive it elsewhere. 
•·we're not asking for a lot, just $5000. We need every cent of that. I would like to stress the importance of Transfer Orientation. When you come as a transfer student, you do not know anyone," McDonald said. "A good portion of transfers live off campus and often do not feel like they are part of the University. Transfer Orientation is the first thing to make them feel like part of the Notre Dame campus and seeing a few famil­iar faces helps so much," 
Overall, the senate agn~ed with McDonald and rearranged funds to give the Transfer Orientation committee the money they requested. They took $500 from the freshman class, $500 from the office of the president. $500 from Hall President's council and $875 away from the technology fund. 
In other senate news: 
. 
The senate approved the nom­ination of Taylor McWilliams for 2000-2001 class representative to the Financial ManagemPnt Board. • 

. 
The senate chose Luciana Heali, Brendan Dowdall and Dan Barabas as Campus Life Council rnpresentatives. 

. 
New athletic director Kevin White addressed the senate on podium. 


"I am so excited to be on the most celebrated University and campus in the country with tlrn most outstanding student body in the country," Whit11 said. "I think the most important r.lement of any campus is thr. studr.nt body and we want to do anything and everything to represent you. WP are very excited to be here." 

Financial Management Board also commented on this issue. 
"SUB was asking for r~ore money specially in concerts because they wanted the shows to be held on the weekend. Groups charge more on the weekends than on Thursday nights. However, we did not think it made sense to allocate money for this reason," said SUB nrnmber Marc Higgins. "Also part of the problem is that the concerts have not made much revenue because a lot of people do not come. SUB told us that the easy area to cut within their bud­get would be concerts." 
Patrick Kelly, another member of the board, urged the senate to help •.vith the difficulty of renting the JACC. 
"The issue of the JACC largely deals with the athletic depart­ment. They won't move a prac­tice to allow for a concert. This is an issue that seuate should pur­sue. Meet with the athletic department and see if' a change could be made," Kelly said. 
Despite the controversy, SUB did not file an appeal. 
''We understand that the bud­get is limited and although we are not thrilled with the amount of money we were given, we are not going to appeal," said SliB representative Becky Hagelin. "However, if there is a re-alloca­tion, we ask that money not be taken from our budget. We need every penny we are given." 
Another issue of controversy was the money allocated for Transfer Orientation. Because this event originated in the office or the president, the money has always been taken from student funds. However, last year the financial management board was given the impression that admis­sions would take over the cost because they give money for Freshman Orientation. Thus the financial management board only gave Transfer Orientation half the money it was given last ynar. 
Unlike SUB, the Transl'er Orientation committee did file an appeal. 
"This cut is hitting us hard. Our funds were not cut a little, they were cut in half and we are not sure where the extra money will come from," said Heather Mr.Donald, of the Transfer 
better th,rn breathing exhaust fumes twice a 

are seeking volunteers 
day? For more information. park your mouse at www.eckerd.org. 

for the summer. 
Send resume to: 
Selection Specialist/ND, P.O. Box 7450 

Flexible hours to fit your 
Clearwater, FL 33758-7450 

Canoe the Suwanee. Sleep under the 
schedule. For more
or e-mail to: recruiting@eckerd.org 

stars. Develop personal relationships. And help at-risk kids get back on the 
AU majors encouraged to apply. 

information, please call 
right path. Doesn't that sound a lot 
Paid training provided. 
Jessica Hauser at 634-2856 or 
Kim Lawton at 675-9554 
1-800-222-1473 • www.eckerd.org EOE 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 20, 2000 
Calendar of Events 
Thursday of Roly Week Morning Prayer, 9;.008,,'!'·. Mass of the Lord'&;Supper, 5:(.)0p.m. Tenebrae, 11:QOp.m. 
Thursday, AprH 20 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Good Friday Morning Prayer, 9:()0 Passion~ 3:00p.m, .• Stations of the Cros 
Friday, April 21 Basilica of the Sacred Heart · 
Celebration of the "Via Crus 
Friday, April 21 Chicago's Hispanic Pilsen• 
Holy Saturday Morning P Saturday Pai..chaf Vigil M 
Saturday, April 22 Basilica of the Sacred He 
Easter Sunday . r 8:0oa~m., .· 
10:00a,ttlr, Noon 0);, · Pascha16pnda 
Campus Bible .• Tuesday, · BadiQJJ 

Easter Sunday 
Weekend Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, April 22 Mass 
9:00 p.rn. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
Sunday, April 23 Mass 
8:00 a.m. 
Rev. James M. lies, C.S.C 
10:00 a.rn. Most Rev. Joseph R. Crowley 
12:00 noon Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for This Coming S1mday 
1st Reading  Acts 10:34a, 37-43  
2nd Reading  Col 3: 1-4 or 1 Cor 5: 6b-8  
Gospel  Jn 20: 1-9 or Mk 16: 1-7  


WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS Conor's Prayer Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
On Conor's behalf, I write to thank you. You know who you are. You're the one who lit a candle at the Grotto for the kid you hardly knew. You're the one who prayed for that for which the doctor's gave us no hope. You're the one who stood in line for hours and offered yourself to be tested for the National Bone Marrow Registry because you were suddenly aware that you could, quite literally, save someone's life. You're the one who signed a T­shirt or sent a card, an e-mail or a letter to let our brother know that while he may not be with us physically, he was no less with us in spirit, in our thoughts and in our prayers. You're the one who shaved your head to join in solidarity with our brother. You're the one who traveled to Cleveland to be with him and with his family. You're the one who worked to raise money to fund the Donor Drive. You're the one, stranger or friend, who has seen him through to this day. 
As I write, on Tuesday of Holy Week, we await that for which we have all long hoped and prayed. This evening, Conor will receive the bone marrow transplant form the one perfect match that was found among the more than three million person National Bone Marrow Registry. Conor has spent the past several days receiving a series of radiation adn chemotherapy treatments, respectively, to prepare him for the transplant. The theory is that they kill everything in him that is sickness and dath, and with the transplant, restore life and renew his immune system. It is difficult to know just how long it will be before we will know of the success of the procedure, and so yoru continued prayers are deeply appreciated. 
The parallels to that which we celebrate this week ought not to go unnoted. There is an appropriateness to its happening during this most holy of weeks. it is a powerful metaphor, in some ways, for that which we cele­brate, the paradox of the Paschal Mystery. It might be a time for us to ask God to purge us of everythign that is sickness and death, and to begin in us the life to which each of us is called, a life of light, and truth, and love. Even as we pray fervently for Conor in these days, let's pray for ourselves as well. We may well be in as much need of healing, perhaps not of body, but of mind, heart and spirit. 
It is impossible to thank all who have contributed so mightily to Conor's cause, from the outpouring of love, prayers, and support that sur­rounded the news of his illness to the contributions to the Donor Drive which was held on his behalf. There are some people and groups tha deserve partic­ular attention for their incredible generosity and support. On Conor's behalf, I wish to list some of them here. Before I do, however, let me acknowledge the danger in listing any contributors at all, since I am likely to inadvertanly leave out some. Simply know tat there are countless individuals, residence halls, clubs, and significant anonymous donors whose names and contribu­tions go unnoted here but which are no less deeply valued and appreciated. 
Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. and the Office of Student Affairs Fr. Richard Warner, C.S.C. and the Office of Campus Ministry Fr. Jim Lewis, 0.Carm. and the Notre Dame London Program Students Joe Cassidy, Peggy Hnatusko, & Mary Edgington and the Office of Student Activities Brian Wolford adn the Washington Semester Program Students Annie Thompson and the University Health Center Kate Voelker and the Junior League of South Bend "The Shirt" Charity Fund Student Board The College Democrats 
Alumni Hall  Pasquerilla East Hall  St. Edward's Hall  
O'Neill hall  Pasquerilla West Hall  Walsh Hall  
Pangborn Hall  Siegfried Hall  Zahm Hall  

Conor has been singularly overwhelmed and sustained by the love and support, shown in so many ways, which he has received since his diagnosis on February 25th. He has asked me to thank you, and to assure you of his prayers. His prayer is tha tyou might one day know, as surely as he does, the grace of God and the power of the notre Dame Family. He is convinced that he lives today, with great hope for healthy future, because of what you have done. He has articulated on various occasions, and far better than I, his deep abiding belief that God is at work in this and through you. For him, and with him, I thank you. 
-
0MPUS rv11NISTRY 


E ... 
Thursday, April 20, 2000 page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'American Psycho' makes a killer satire 
By MATT NANIA 
As:-iist;HH Sn:nc Fdimr 
II films likt' last vciar·s "B(dng-.John Malkovkh." ··Fight ciub." ··Magnolia" and tlw nnvlv rcl1,as1,d "1\nwrican l'sycho" am anv indi;·ation; tlw cutT<'nt statn of' film­111,;king is looking prPlLy good. 
Nol sinr.1' tlw '70s havP AmPrica11 audi­t'IWl'S snnn suf'!1 an illustrious crop of' 11niqt11' and t'X('iting lilms. 
(;ranll·d. "Anwriran Psvrho" was not madt' in llollv,mod wilh it $100 million budgPt. but il did gd mack f'or $7.:i million by Lions (;au• 1-'ilrns. whi('h also rnlPasml last ~'Par's "Dogma." 
\\'ilh "Anwrican Psvrho," din,1·lor Marv 11,irron n ~hot i\nciy Warhol") and n;­writr'r Cuirll'\'t•rr• 
grrPd that was c:orpora,tn :\nwrica. 
llarron has rrnatr.d sonwthing truly original: a charar.tPr study of' a man who is more a rollr.ction of' ideas than a unique pnrsonality unto his own. lier dirnction unflinchingly raptures the dnradcncP of' this big-cash world. wlrnrl' young busi­1rnssmcn art> intcrdrnngP.a.blP and thPir _jobs nondf\sc-ript. 
Thf! !11111 will undoubtr.dly angi~r thosr. scPking a traditional molivl' to Bateman's crimes or a sense or rnsolution: but by kcPping llrn film loosnly plotl(.;d as Wf!II as gorgcious in appParanrP, llarron clrivns llw point of' th11 film homP in bolh idr.a and d<)sign. 
Sim and 1·irwmatographPr AnclrzP.i SPkula handlP tlw picturn·s violent scquPncPs skillf'ully. making them gcn­
uin<'ly jarring witb-

Turiwr (adaµting a 
"Ameri•can Psycho" out allowing tlwm to

111ud1-maligrn•d llrPl! ovcrwh<'lm th<' Faston 1-:!lis novf'li. l'ilm ·s satirir:al havP givt>n us a coid. 
points. This is on(' of dark satirical look the fow recf'nt black into thP bla!'kn1ess comedies that rPally
Olli oflive shamrocks 

that rr\sidc's within works. dPlivering tlw image, rultun,. as laughs and shivers
Director: Mary Harron

wPI! as tlw first trulv in about <\qua! mea­lllf'J11flrabl(• nlrf1 o·r Starring: Christian Bale, Reese sure. Indeed, an 
Hw vcar. Witherspoon, Jared Leto, Samantha undercurrent of 
··t\.nwrican Psvcho" nasty humor is portrays. with p°Iayl'ul Mathis, Chloe Sevigny and Willem Dafoe 
maintained r.ven at 

nwtin1 lousn11ss. the cgotistic' world of young and affluPnl l'atrirk Bat,m1an (Christian Bale): Wall StrPPt V.I'. bv dav. vicious serial killer with a pPnchant f~ir 0~1tragr,ous combinations of sex and hypPr-violr.nce by night. Through this well-sketdwd !'haracter. "American Psvcho" olfors a licrrP. social commr.ntarv ab.out tlw Pxc1•sscs thal charact,\rizPd lh;1 
! ')80s. 
On th<• surl'arP. tlw wcll-groomnd. cnn­SPrvalivP and convt•ntional BatPman appt>ars to bP tlw ideal lat!' ·8os yuppie. But underneath tlw surf'acP lurks ... wPII. nothing. Tlw tilm plays with thP idea that nobody hw; tinw !'or cmotion in a society drivPn bv malt•rialism. Batt>nurn is not PVPn rPmotPly conlPmplativP or his brutal rrinws. I !is murdPrs an' nwrdv a natural l'Xtl'llsion of his nttthroat lifostylP (at one point, lw puL-; on a ponrho so blood won't splatt<•r on his di,signnr suit). Bat<,man is young. rirh. good-looking and psychotic. II" is lhf' vPry PSSPlll'.<' or jPalousy and 
the most brutal moment. 
The killing or follow broker Paul Allen (Jarnd Leto). in partir.ular. is the most hys­terically funny killing imaginable, all done to lluey Lr.wis & The News' "Hip To Be Square ... Lewis may have pulled his song off thP official soundtrack CD. but it remains in the movie and is absolutely essential to understanding how nuts Bateman is becoming as he Sf'PS his illu­sions or power shattered. 
In another scene, whir:h is set up previ­ously by a short clip of "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre." BatPman, nakf'd and splattered in blood, chases a prostitute through the halls of a seemingly empty New York City apartment building, all the while clutching his wailing chainsaw. While this ma.y sound a bit grisly. this scene~. as it is prPsented, is nothing short of hilarious in its over-llw-top B-grade hor­ror moviP aesthetics. lndPPd. pPrvPrsPly and point<>dly. "American Psyd10" is 


Photo courtesy of Lions Gate Films In the dark, twisted satire "American Psycho," Christian Bale plays a psycho­pathic 1980s Wall Street V.P. who kills people in his spare time. 
repeatPdly funny. 

Mur,h of the film's humor and success is due to Christian Bale's all-or-nothing per­formance a.s Patrick Bateman. Presenting him as wonderfully off-the-wall, Bale ("Little Women," "Velvet Goldmine") man­ages to play Bateman to the point of absurdity without making the charar,ter so ludicrous that he becomes irrelevant (one can only imagine what a totally different effect would have resulted had Leonardo DiCaprio. as originally suggested, taken the role). 
And while Bateman, whose Wall Street specialty is "murders and executions," (which is misheard as "mergers and acqui­sitions" I. remains consistently amusing, Bale actually gives an oddly insightful per­formance. On the verge of a breakdown, Bateman never cries. not because he's holding back the tear's, but because he honPstly can't get the emotions to happen. There's simply no one there. 
The movie is also helped by some effec­tive supporting roles. Rr.ese Witherspoon ("Election") is Patrick's princess-like liancee, who smothers him with baby talk and attention. Deep down Patrick hates her, preferring the broken-down and med­icated despair of Courtmiy (Samantha Mathis). an emotional wreck and suicide waiting-to-happen. Chloe SPvigny ("Boys Don't Cry") is Patrick's sweet. tentative secretary, who during a date mistakes his fears of losing control for tender declara­tions of sexual attraction. And Willem Dafoe ("Platoon") is solid as an incredibly likable private investigator. 
Some will argue that. like its protagonist, "American Psycho" has a lot on the sur­face, but not much underneath. The pic­ture may lose it<; footing toward the close, and its observations might not be exar.tly profound. but it's not merely an exr.rcise in style -it has ideas. however muddled they may be. 
It is being praised by some as the dark­est satire to hit the sr.reens since "i\ Clockwork Orange." Others. however. are calling it "misogynistic" and "utterly deplorable." Whatever the case may be. onr. thing's for sure: "American Psycho." much like "A Clockwork Orange," is des­tined to become a cult-classic:. 

Box OFFICE 

4 -Apr. L6 
Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales 
1
. Rules of Engagement $ 10.9 million $ 30.6 million 

2. 
28 Days $ 10.3 million $ 10.3 million 

3. 
Keeping the Faith $ 8.1 million $ 8.1 million 

4. 
Erin Brockovich $ 7.1 million $ 99.3 million 

5. 
The Road to El Dorado $ 6.2 million $ 33.1 million 

6. 
Return to Me $ 5.1 million $ 15.5 million 

7. 
American Psycho $ 4.9 million $ 4.9 million 

8. 
The Skulls $ 4.1 million $ 25.7 million 

9. 
Final Destination $ 3.1 million $ 38.2 million 

10. 
Ready to Rumble $ 2.7 million $ 9.1 million 


Source· Yahoo' 

The courtroom military drama "Rules of Engagement," starring Samuel L. Jackson {left), snuck past Sandra Bullock's "28 Days" to gain the top stop at the box-office last week­end, earning $10.9 million. The Edward Norton romantic comedy "Keeping the Faith" did moderately well, pulling in a substantial $8.1 million to earn the third slot. Despite appearing on only half as many screens as the top draws, "American Psycho" still man­aged a decent $4.9 million intake.


page 14 The Obser1Jer . SPORTS Thursday, April 20, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Grand slam, four homers helps Boston shut out Detroit 
A,sociatcd Pres, 
Trot Nixon hit a grand slam and four olhcr Hoston players honrnrPd as the R<'d Sox routf'd the Delroit Tigers 10-0 on WednPsday night. 
Jose Offerman. Troy O'Leary, Mike Stanlr,y and Nomar Garriaparra a·lso homered for the Bed Sox. who matched the total of five homers hit in the first s1wen games at Comcrira Park. 
Brian Hose 11-2) and three relievers combined on a six-hit­ter in Boston's second straight shutout against Detroit. 
Stanley, who was 4-for-5. hit a disputed home run to start Boston's six-run sixth. After two singles and a ,.valk against Matt Anderson. Nixon grneted Jim Poole with the first grand slam in Comerica Park history. 
Omi out latP.r. Garciaparra hit his first homer of the season to give Boston a 9-0 lead. 
Nixon. who homned in the Hed Sox's 7-0 victory Tuesday, joined Tampa Bay's Gerald Williams as the only players with two home runs in the Tigers' new home. 
Nixon added a run-scoring sin­gle in the seventh. He was 4-for­5 and had five RBrs to match his career high set in a three-homer game against Detroit last July 24. 
Hose. hit hard in his two previ­ous starts. allcwed three hits in six innings. iiis ERA dropped from 16.50 to 8.25. 
Detroit starter Hideo Nomo I 1­
11. who enternd the game with a string of 15 scoreless innings, gave up four runs on five hits ­including three homers -in live-plus innings. 
Stanley led off the sixth with a drive> that boundPd somewhere off Lhe top of the ri.ght-center field wall and bark into play as Stanley rounded first with an apparent single. 
Yankees 5, Tigers 4 
Clay Bellinger hit a solo home run in lhc 10th inning and the New York YankPeS cc,mplPted their lirsl Lhree-game sweep al Texas sincc1 198:{. 
The Yankees· winning strec1k is their longest since they took nine in a row in August 1998. This string started with two vir,­tories over the Hangers last week at New York. 
Ivan Rodriguez. who wru; get­ting the day off, tied it with the first pinch-hit homc>r of his career. a two-run shot with two outs in the ninth. The AL MVP connected on the first pitch he saw from Yankees closer Mariano Hivera (2-0). 
Rivera had been successful on 27 straight save chances since last July 16. In the 10th, he retired David Segui on a fly ball with a runner on third to end it. 
Bellinger, who entered the game as a pinch-runner in the eighth. homered off Jeff Zimmerman (0-21 The Rangers reliever struck out five -includ­ing two batters beforn the homer and two after it. · 
Little-used Lance Johnson got four hits for the Yankees and starter Hoger Clemens pitched four-hit ball for seven-plus innings in his longest outing of the season. 
Clemens, who hadn't gone past the sixth inning in his first three starters. strur:k out five and walked two. 
Yankees manager Joe Torre pulled Clemens after he went 2­0 on Chad Curtis leading off the 

eighth. The Yankees said Clemens had stiffness in his lower bar:k but said the situation wasn't serious. 
Jell Nelson relieved and threw two balls to Curtis. with lhP walk charged to Clemens. i\ftcr a force play, Luis Alicea, who had homerf'd in the sixth, hit an HBT double. 
White Sox 5, Mariners 2 

Carlos Loe dclivnrnd a ticbreaking. basns-loaded single in the fifth inning and the Chicago White Sox. beat the Seattle Mariners. 
Gii Mechn !0-1 l got the first two outs in the Chicago titlh but then walked the bases loaded. giving him seven walks for the game, and was replar:ed by Jose Paniagua. 
Lee hit a two-run single to cen­ter to give the White Sox a 4-2 lead. 
Hodriguez thought hf' lied it with a two-run homer in the sev­enth but his long drive to left was ruled f'oul hy third base umpire Fieldin Culbreth. 
Hodrigucz thought the ball hooked insidn the polo and man­ager Lou Piniella came out of the dugout lo apparnntly seek a sec­ond opinion. 
Culbrnth askPd for help and. after mm,ting with plate umpire Bill Welke and second basf, ump '.vlike Winters. thn foul call stood. Television replays wern incon­dusive. 
Hodriguez eventually ground­ed out after an at-bat against rclirwer Koith Foulke that fea­tured nino foul balls. including another long drive to left. 
The White Sox made it 5-2 on a bloop double by Magglio Ordonez and HBI single by Paul Konerko in the seventh. 
Sean Lowe (1-0) got thn victory with 2 1-3 innings aft1ir rnplac­ing starter Scott Eyre Bob Howry pitched the ninth for his first save. 
Jav Buhner hit a two-run hom;.ir. his fourth ol' the season. to give the Mariners a 2-0 lnad in the second. 
Expos 7, Cubs 3 
Vladimir Guflrrnro drove in four runs and hit a go-ahead double in the seventh inning Wednesday night that !Pd tl111 Montreal Expos to the win. 
Guerrero went 3-for-5. falling a honrn run short of' tlrn c:vde. He also struck out for the ·nrst time since last Sept. 25, a span of 22 games. 
Henry Hodrigucz and .Jeff Beed homerPd for the Cubs. who lost their fourth in a row. Hoed was 3-for<{. 
ll was 3-all in the sevMth when Guerrero hit a two-out. two-run doublo off I¾ ube:n Queve:do {0-21 
Carl Pavano (2-0l allowed three runs and six hits in s<:v1\n innings. Hn won his first caroer start ·against the Cubs. thn only NL team he had yet to f'ac(1. 
Guerrero hit an HBI singlP in the first inning. Ho struck out in his next at-bat -his 47th or the season -while chasing a low 0­2 pitch from Andrew Lorraine. 
Guerrero had not struck out in 71 at-bats -and 82 plate appearances -since hn f'ann<'d against Atlanta's Terry Mulholland last snason. Guerrnro hit an HBl triple in the fifth to put the Expos up 3-2. 
.Jose Vidro follownd Gunrrnro's single in the first with an BBi grounder to givn Montrnal a 2-0 lead. 
Rodriguez hit his s1icond 
homer after Sammy Sosa groundBd into a double µlay in the fourth to draw tlw Cubs lo within orw at 2-1. 
Pirates 5 , Marlins 1 
Todd Bit<:hin pitchnd sevl'n strong innings and Knvin Young hit a two-run doubln to l11ad thn Pittsburgh Pirali,s to victory over Florida, snapping tlw Marlins' three-game winning strnak. 
Hitchie (1-0l. who had no-deri­sions in his first two starts dcspitP allowing just thrne runs in 13 innings. gave up one run on eight hits. I le stru"k out four and walked onl'. 
The Pirates loaded tlw bases with no ouL'i in thn third against Alex Fnrnandnz (2-2) on conspc­u ti vH singlfls by Chad Ilcrmansen and Hitrhic and a walk to Jason Kondall. 
Following a popout, lfrian Giles' groundout scorPd llf'rmanscn. 
With runnors on first and third, Young follo\V(Hf with a drivr! to Uw li\n(:e in right-c,•ntN tif'ld. wherP a fan rPndwd down to ratrh it. 
Second basP u mpirP Hi<"h Hiekcr ruled it a doublP and allowed Gill's to scorn from lirst. giving th1>. Piratrs a :3-0 lf'ad. Young had bef'n 3-l'or-30 against right-handers. 
Al'wr stranding t11r,•c runrwrs in scoring position through tlw lirst three innings. thn Marlins scored a run on Mikn HPdmond's two-out singl<' in thP fourth. 
Jason ChristnnsPn and Miki' V\iilliams each pitrlwd a hitlt\ss inning in reliPI' to wraµ up tlw victorv. 
Pat ·l\,foarns hit an HBI singlP in the Pittsburgh sovnnth and had a run-scoring grounder in the ninth. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 .1.m. to .3 jun. at rhc Nmrc Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must he prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per ch,u;ictcr per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the ritsl" rn edir ,ill classifieds for rnnrenr wirl1our issuing refimds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Need child care giver in Granger Do you want to live in Turtle Creek Cscott and Chuk: I am sorry I had ll's only one. And they expect us to swoon? home. 15 hr/week. Summer. Call the next year? Call Angela 272-to revoke your pizza invitation. Next NOTICES Katie 271-1935 2207 time I will order more pieces. I have no classes until Tuesday. Wow, I am clueless. 
THE COPY SHOP FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, PRI-I mean, pizza. I have a shower sponge with a Mommy, the rhino's getting too LaFortune Student Center FOR RENT VATE BATH, PRIVATE KITCHEN, tarantula on it. close to the car. Store Hours LAUNDRY, PHONE, 5 MIN. N. OF Where was the Papa John's man? I High Speed Copying RENTAL HOUSES FOR 4-6 STU-CAMPUS am tired of talking to the CEO. Smelly Mindy has the dragonfly. Tommy Boy is another great flick. Color Copying DENTS WITH LARGE ROOMS. 272-0615 Resumes W&D. Jose is the man. Well, she's nol smelly anymore. So much room, nothing to say. Business Cards 291-2209 SUMMER SUBLEASE Fax Service 2 Bdrm, 2 Bath, furnished, very Anne Marie is the Jose of ed board. But I wonder it her bed is still At least now I have something to Desktop Publisr,mg LARGE 6 BOROM. HOUSE. 2 close to campus, 243-2601. covered in paper-maiche stuff. do. & a whole lot more FULL BATHS & BASEMENT. UTIL-Liz-thanks for helping me pull my Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery ITIES INC. $400/ROOM. 247-9808 story together. You rock. That cookie is dead. Too bad for Noah that his pages Call 631-COPY don't fit.
FOR SALE 

2 bedroom, 2 bath College Park 24 hours and I'll be dancing. And I want a Pepsi. apartment for lease during summer 1978 Mustang $6999 I feel bad. WANTED session. Call Erin @ x4238 if inter-orange, 65,000 mi, greal condition Happy Easter But I don't want to deal with the 
ested. Call Trevor x2075 corpse of the cookie. Really I do. Caregiver needed 2000-01 acade-jellybeans. jellybeans, jellybeans mic year. Tues.-Thrs, 7:45-5:45 for FURNfSHED ROOM, AIR. PRf-95 Red VW Cabrio. 5speed, blk I'm sick ... Yep. look at me. 2 young children. 631-7765. VATE BATH. PRIVATE KITCHEN, leather, 40K mi, excellent condition, Ginnis, you rock my world. Transpo and ref. required LAUNDRY, PHONE, 5 MIN. N. OF $10,000/Best, must sell, call 243-...and dying ... Just look at me. 
CAMPUS 272-0615 8901 To Kate: L'ARCHE HARNOR HOUSE tn Happy six-monlh anniversary I'm and I have nothing to do. Yep, that's right Jacksonville. Florida invites you to a Wanted: 6 subletters for summer. so happy we're together, and I year of service creating community 1022 Madison St. $300/month PERSONAL wouldn't have il any other way. W'ny does no one ever inslant This is me not caring. Wilh persons who are mentally dis-negotiable. Contact: Barb x1573 or Love you, sweetie. message me when I'm at home but abled. Responsibilities include: Chenell x2378 Thanks for reading. Laura. -Mtkey as soon as I get to work. everyone Is it conceited to think you're the 
assisr in creating a home: develop wants to be my best friend al of a most beautiful girl ever? relationships with members; and Chicago Roommate Needed' Ready to hit the open road, Nell? worship me, MPOR sudden" assist in personal care and commu-3'99 N.D. grads in Chicago want a Crossing the border once was See. I didn't think so. nity l1vtng. Requirements include a roommate unttl Sept 1 1 bedroom enougt1, but now we're headed for Welcome lo Notre Dame, Chunk' Erin is a mosquito. desire lo live wiU1, learn from. and in big apt only 1 block from Wrigley lime number three. I don't know if ··Sloth It's JUSl honesty. relate with mentally disabled adults_ Field. Call ASAP. Katie 773-348-that country can take any more. I am a tarantula. Benefits include stipened. room, 7530 Hey Lisa! I saw your panties! 11 Put I'm going to gel caught up this board. and health insurance and your drawers back on, skank. Quit Mindy is a dragonfly weekend. formation in lhe spirituality and pht-RENTAL HOUSES FOR 4-6 STU-But here's a hint -stay standing walking around 3North naked losophy of L'Arcl1e. To .ipply, con-DENTS WITH LARGE ROOMS. when you're bowling. It helps your Kristina is a monkey. Erin, I'm even going to decide how tact Dottie Klein, L'Arche, 700 W&D. 291-2209 score. Maybe I would find Turner attractive I'll organize my notebooks for Arlington Rd., Jacksonville, FL it I had any idea who Turner was. Should I give Noah his brownies? classes this semester. 
32211; (904) 7 44.44 35 3 bedroom duplex. Appliances Or should they be MY brownies? W/D, 1 mile trom campus. 273-At least Brett knows we're corning I don't have a scale .. I'm right on schedule. 8332 this time. Evil laugh. 
... at least anymore. Oh. and for your intormat,on. I AM a Summer Server Needed HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed-Eric's weasel laugh. rnodel Notre Dame student. Flexible Hours, Great Pay room, $1000/month 2) 2-bedroom, WHOSE car is that? WHAT do you Like Katie says, that was in middle Ctose to Campus $500/month We'll make almost any do? school. Okay, I need to get over my little I live Notre Dame_
i~ 
K's Grill & Pub 277-2527 changes to the hOuses. Call Bill at Billy Madison kick 675-0776 Good luck in Australia. Gretchen! Or senior year. Same deal. How bout Clueless? And classifieds never lie. 



page 15

Thur~day, April 20, 2000 The Ob,erver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Coming next 1Neek: 
nTosta 
April 25-27 


...Sports Movie Marathon ... Recess... Video Dance Party ... Tug o' War ... Music Mania & Games... Food ... Prizes ... Giveaways .. 
pplications for the positions of OPERATOR and CONTROLLER are available outside the 
SUB office in Lafortun 


Happy Easter from www.nd.edu/ ~sub 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 20, 2000 
NBA 
Sir Charles walks away from NBA 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Charles Barkley ended his 16-year career lhe way he wanted to. 
Deter-mined to go out stand­ing up, the Houston Rockets 
forward thrilled the horne­t o w n c r o w d with 7:26 to go in the second quarter Wed-nes­day night when he reported into the regular season finale against the Vancouver Grizzlies. 
Barkley, out since Dec. 8 with a ruptured knee tendon, received a standing ovation amid shouts of "Barkley, 
Barkley, Barkley." fans 
waved cardboard cutout Barkley masks and groaned when Barkley missed his first shot with 6: 10 left in the half 
Rockets coach Rudy Tomjanovich obviously was trying to get Barkley in the scoring column. Barkley missed his next two shots before he finally got a rebound and scored with 1:24 left in the second quarter. 
That got him another stand­ing ovation, and Tomjanovich took him out with 1 :19 left. 
Barkley left smiling, finish­ing with six minutes of playing time, two points, one rebound, one assist and a blocked shot. 
Barkley returned to the sidelines for the second half, where a fluffy recliner await­ed him. 
The Rockets almost had anothP-r thrill with a fourth­quarter conrnback. but the Grizzlies held on for a 96-92 victory to snap a seven-game losing streak. Former Rocket Michael Dickerson led Vancouver with 20 points. 
The Rockets trailed 84-71 with 7:59 left, but tied it at 90­<JO with 1:27 to play. The Grizzlies hit six straight free throws to hold on. Walt Williams led Houston with 20 points. 

After a dazzling 16-year career with Philadelphia, Phoenix and Houston that earned him a spot among the 50 greatest players in NBA history, Barkley brought it to a close against the Grizzlies. 
Barkley's career was thought to have ended Dec. 8 when he ruptured a knee ten­don against Philadelphia. 
But he wanted to walk away -rather than be carried away -in his last game, which is why Barkley took the court one more time despite his knee being only about 70 percent healed. 
For all his flamboyance throughout his career, Barkley finished with a hum­ble tone. 
"Basketball doesn't owe me anything, I owe everything in my life to basketball, every­thing," Barkley said. 'Tm 37 years old, I'm rich beyond my wildest dreams. I have great material things. I've been all over the world and it's all because of' basketball." 
Barkley considered playing Tuesday night at Phoenix, where he performed for four seasons and came closest to winning an NBA champi­onship in 1993. But Tomjanovich didn't want to take a chance with Barkley's knee still less than 100 per­cent. 
"This is a sad day for me, I've been playing basketball since I was nine years old and now I'm not going to be play­ing anymore," Barkley said. "That's the only thing that makes me sad. I won't miss the limelight. 
"The difficult thing is that nothing I'll do in my life from now on will come close to what I've accomplished in basketball in the last 16 years. 
Barkley was the firth player chosen overall in the 1984 NBA draft by Philadelphia after a standout career at Auburn. Barkley's draft class included Michael Jordan, John Stocktnn and current team­mate Hakeem Olajuwon. 


Celtics knock off Knicks in finale 
Associated Press 

The Boston Celtics ended their s1wenth straight losing season on a high note, defeat­ing the Knicks 112-85 on Wednesday night. 
The Knicks, who are seeded third in the Eastern Conference and will face Toronto in the opening round, rested key players yet still led 56-55 at halftime. But they managed just 11 points in the third quarter, allowing the Celtics to Lake an 84-67 lead into the fourth. 
The Celtics (35-4 7) were led by Paul Pierce with l CJ points, Kennv Anderson with 18 and Tony· Battie with 17. They ended their season with five wins in their last six games after a 10-game losing streak ruined their playoff chances. 
The Knicks got 17 points from .John Wallace and 15 from Patrick Ewing. Their starting backcourt took much of the night off as Allan Houston had 11 points in 28 minutes a.nd Charlie Ward was scoreless, playing only the first 1 l minutes. 
New York scored the first five points of the final period, cutting the lead to 84-72, but the closest the Knicks got after that was 94-82 with 5:20 remaining. 
Hornets 83 Heat 73 

The Charlotte Hornets gained homecourt advantage for the 11rst round of the play­offs and denied Pat Riley his 1,000th career coaching victo­ry by beating the Miami Heat. 
The Hornets, who were in seventh place in the Eastern Conference on March 20, won 14 of their last 16 games and seven in a row to move up to the fourth seed. They play the 
Philadelphia 76ers .in the opening round. 
Riley, who has a 999-434 regular-season rncord, will have to wait until next year to join Atlanta's Lenny Wilkens as the only NBA coaches with 1,000 victories. Wilkens has 1,179. 
Riley also has an NRA record 149 playoff coaching victorit~s. 
Anthony Mason, Eddie Jones and Brad Miller hit consecu­tive layups to give Charlotte a 65-55 lead, and the Heat never challenged again. 
Mason and Jones scored 14 each, Eddie Robinson camt! off the bench to shoot 6-of-7 for l 3 points, Derrick Coleman added 12 and Elden Campbell scored 11. 
Anthony Carter led Miami with 16 points. .Jamal Mashburn had 15 and Mourning 13. 
Pistons 112 Bulls 91 
The Detroit Pistons will get the first-round matchup they wanted against the Miami Heat. 
Detroit (42-40), which went 2-2 against Miami and 1-3 against top-seeded Indiana, gets the seventh seed in the East. Chicago (17-65) is head­ed to the draft lottery for the second year running. 
The Pistons played without Grant Hill for the third straight game. llill was placed on the injured list before the game due to a bone bruise in his left ankle. 
No Piston played more than 2() minutes, and four rnserves reached double figures. Even rookie Jermaine Jackson, who hadn't played since October, got in and scored four points. 
Chicago was led by Elton Brand with 32 points and 11 rebounds, while Fred lloiberg added 15. 
Chicago stayed close for most of the first half, but Detroit got nine points from Stackhousl\ in the second to lead 57-47 at intermission. Stackhouse hit a jumpnr at the buzzer, but tho officials ruled that it came just late. Brand had 24 points at the half, but his teammates man­aged just 23. 
Cavaliers 111 Nets 108 

Lamond Murray hit a go­ahead 3-pointer with 11.9 seconds to play and tho Cleveland Cavaliers scored the final six points to beat New Jersey in what was lik1\ly Don Casey's final game as the Nets' coach. 
Casey is expected to be fired next week after he mnets with owner Lewis Katz. His 1 1/2 year run ended with a season­high 11-gamii losing streak, a slump that allownd thn Nets (31-51) to edge Cleveland (32­
50) for the seventh worst record in next month's draft lottery. 
Murray had 27 points. including six ol' the Cavs' final eight. Shawn Komp added 23 points and 13 rnbounds. 
Johnny Newman and Keith Van Horn scored 29 points apiece for New .lersoy, which had only seven healthy play­ers. Kendall Gill added 24 points, but threw up an air­ball with threo seconds to go and the Nets behind 10<J-108. 
Elliott Perry hit two l'ren throws with 19.6 snconds to play to giv1\ tlrn Nets a 108­105 lead. Murray was fouled on a drive at tlrn other end with 16.1 seconds to go. lie made the fir.st and missed th11 second free. throw, but Van Horn lost the rebound out ol' bounds, giving the ball back to Cleveland. 

Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY for 
QO®@~LJ[b@[ru@)0@COLLeGe nlGHT SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
$ 1 COW#,ER 
(with college I.D., must be 21) .,.J and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. 
\\'l\\ @~ FRIDAY, APRIL 21 LOCAL ff
·~m~ 
~F-«:Lf7,A-'{ ,,A-P(ZIL. ZS 
p.s. OOtlP YOUR BCNFRIEWI> 
For ticket info call the Heartland Concert & Event Line: 219.251.2568 
222 S. Michigan • South Bend • 219.234.5200 www.accplaccs.com/hcarcl:md 


page 12 Thursday, April 20, 2000 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Bullock's 'Days' too predictable, formulaic 
By CASEY K. McCLUSKEY 
Sleue J\1ovit' Cdr1.t-' 
\\'hen most people think of Sandra Bullork's movie rolns, they think of' thr. nirP girl-nnxt-door. Although th(' rolf' of (;wl'n Cummings is not too for off Uw mark f'rom hrr normal roles. Cwen d('finitf'ly has murh more of an rdgr than WP an' usr,d to seteing. The story­!inn it.sPlf' provPs to bP a serious orw, bul Bullork is still ablr> to add a Ii tlll' C'harm LO 
The story line of this film is pr()­dictablr.. although a numbr.r of the characters in the film arc pretty f'rosh . 
.'\Ian Tudyk plays GP.rhardt. a follow patient who is extremely amusing but very puzzling at the same time. 1ln has an accent that drifts from one country to the 1rnxt. never settling on an origin. DPspitr being a very emotional guy. Gerhardt still has trouble exprnssing his emolions. Although he is vt1ry much an Pnigma. hP is one of t.lw most 
lovable characlers. 


Another interosting her ('harartPr. l'haracter in the lilm is
"28 Days" 

Gwen is a Ne\\ York Gwen's roommate. City l'olumnist who 
i\ndrc>a. played by i'nj;iys tlw fast life and Azura Skve. Andr<-1a is tlw big story. lier lifo our o/'five shamrocks a scvent~l111-vr.ar-old consists of swinging h()roin addict ·who has l'rom one party to tllf' been in and out or
Director: Betty Thomas

lt<'Xl without dealing rPhab most of her life \\'ith. or caring lo d1-•al Starring: Sandra Bullock, but is still surprisingly with. any of the rcp<'r-innocent. She is
Viggo Mortensen, Alan Tudyk,

cussions. Gwen's ticket into the Gwen is l'inallv forced Azura Skye and Elizabeth rehab group and thr. 
to deal with her prob-Perkins ltm1s -and there are plenty -when she is sentenced to 28 days of rehab after drunkenly crashing her sister's wed­ding limo into a house while trying to replace the wedding cake she fell into. 
Soon. Gwen goes from living life in the fast lane to living a much slower paced life in a New Age rehab center. Gwen walks into a world of singing, chanting. hugging and sharing. She is not ready to join in the festivities. 
Gwen thinks that if she can stick out her 28 days, she'll be able to go back to her life. She simply does not see that she has a problem. But like any good­old Hollywood film. Gwen has her moment of realization just in time to get the full experience out of rehab. 
two form a bond to 
help each other. 
During the 28 days in rehab, Eddie Boone (Viggo Mortensen) joins the group. Boone is a rehabbing baseball player who is ready to move on from the pressures of being a big leaguer. 
Gwen and Eddie develop a flirtatious relationship that one soon suspects will be a motivation for Gwen to leave her disastrous relationship with her party­ing boyfriend. 
Eddie is interesting. but like most of the characters in the movie. he is too underdeveloped. The audience is not given the chance to get to know these characters intimately and therefore are not given the chance to care about them too much. 
Coming from someone who is not a 
Photo cour1esy of Columbia Pictures 

In "28 Days," Sandra Bullock plays Gwen, a struggling alcoholic forced into a 
rehabilitation clinic. 
huge Sandra Bullock fan, her role as an alcohol and drug addict was still very impressive. Although the plot may be predictable. she gives a very fresh and honest portrayal of a woman who is struggling with demons that go beyond drugs and alcohol. 
We see flashbacks of Gwen's child­hood with her mother. who was also an addict. and we can see where her pat­terns have come from. Director Betty Thomas makes these flashbacks very intriguing, visually as well as contextu­ally, because they are memories that are slowly coming back to Gwen as she finally allows herself to deal with her demons. 
Gwen not only has to come to tt1rms with her childhood. but she also has to come to terms with hm· sev,\rnd rela­tionship with her sister. Lily (played brilliantly by Elizabeth Perkins). Gwen realizes that to survive outside of rehab she will nned lrnlp from others. especially her sister. This docs set1m a bit too perfect for th0. real world, but these two actresses pull it off without making you feel queasy. 
"28 Days" isn't worth much more than a rental. unless you are a bug!' Sandra Bullock fan. Save your money and wait for thfi video. 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Norton, Stiller, Elfinan lend charm to romantic 'Faith' 
By JILLIAN DePAUL 
S<.:ene Movie Critic 
Edward Norton. arguably one of the best actors of his genera­tion. tests his abilitv behind the camera \Nith his -dirnctorial ctr.but. "KPc)ping the Faith," an (mtf~rtaining. though a bit con­t'using and unnatural. romantic c:omPdv. 
Norton turned manv heads. including those of Academy vot­ers, with his breakout role in "Primal Fear." Since then. he has continued to take risks with his choice of roles, such as a rage-filled neo-Nazi skinhead in "American f-listorv X," (!'or which he got his sec~nd of what is sure to be many Academy Award nominations! and the nameless narrator or last year's abrasive, yet visionary. ,;Fight Club." 
Not only does Norton choose edgy and innovative roles. but he also actualizes them flawlt1ss­ly and effortlessly, commanding 


Edward Norton (left), Jenna Elfman and Ben Stiller play three­childhood friends in the romantic comedy "Keeping the Faith." 
a rare and classically powerful left off in eighth grade, r,xccpt presence onscreen. for a few small details. Now tlrny However, as a creative force go to each other's religious ser­behind "Keeping the Faith," he vices for fun, and Brian and is faced with the opportunity to Anna try desperately to help take a great risk, which is Jake with his troubled love lifo. undoubtedly the road less trav­llis whole congregation is trying eled by romantic to set him up, comedies. and since he feflls Unfortunately, "Keeping the obligated to sttl'­Norton, and con­fer through the sequently the Faith" bad dates. lrn film, play it safe docs not quite by conforming to 
know what to do the conventions when a promis­of the genre. The ing prospect
out of five shamrocks 
result is ironic in comes along. the sense that his Not bel'orn
Director: Edward Norton 
own character long. both men feels the weight Starring: Edward Norton, dr.vclop romantic of the loss. Ben Stiller and Jenna Elfman foelings for Anna. 
"Korping the Faith." scripted by an old Yale buddy of Norton's named Stuart Blumberg. tells the familiar story of two friends who fall in lovr with the same woman. llowever. there is an unfamiliar twist. Norton's ch11.r­actr.r. Brian Finn. is Father Brian Finn. and Ben Stiller's .JakP Schram is actuallv Rabbi Jake Schram . .Jenna I:Jf'man plays Anna. the childhood friend or both men. who wa.ltzps back into their livrs as a btiautiful and surrPssf'ul busi1wsswoman some eightenn years later. Unwittingly and inrvitably. her rct urn throws the three of their lives into upheaval. 
The trio pick np where they This is wmplicat­
e d. though, because .lake is expected to marry within his own faith, and we all know about Brian's priestly sacrilicP. 
The film emphasizes the equality of' their friendships (three can sometimes become a crowd). Thereforo, when .lake and /\nna start a casual, scxual relationship, the audience assunws that Anna's f<-ielings for both men are tir,d up in it. and that she chooses Jako for obYi­ous and convcniPnt rmL"Sons (for one. he doP.s not havn a vow of' chastitv). 
But, ·as they always do in the movies. this casual. sexual rela­tionship diwBlops into love), and when thn two confront th11ir f'pp}­ings. both parties act immaturP­ly. Anna docs not understand what a problem it is li>r Jake to be involvPd with a Catholic woman. and .Jak!' is insnnsitivn to Anna's needs as a woman with career priorities. 
Meanwhile. back at the rnrto­rv. Brian. clueless about tlwir r~latinnship, is ready to chuck his priesthood. and ,~sscntially his life. to be with Anna. 
The relationship betwenn Anna and Brian has bnttcr chemistry. or maybe our sympa­thies just lie with Norton bt1causn he is such a grPal Father Wlrnt-a-Wastl'. Eitlwr way, Norton sells his own char­act.!'r short in choosing not to go there. Ilad the audicnr·l' not been led to bclif!Vn that Anna chooses .Jakc for mrrc conve­nicnce. and had thP. script been convincing in iL'i loving ndation­ship bctw<'nn Anna and Jakn, the !1lrn's !laws would havn b(~nn l'orgiv<•n. lnstPad. uniquP char­acter dynamics arc sacrilicPd l'or a tired: <·onventional Pnding. 
Despite somr nsscntial prob­lems. tlw lilrn is genuinely nnLP.r­taining. The threi'. !Pad actors display charisma that mahs many or thc laughs work, nwn though they somrtim<'s f'pn] forced. 
Although "KPPping thn Faith" is a less than holy movie, redemption can be found in tlrn trinity or il'i young ta!Pnt. 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 20, 2000 

Yellow Cab is too slow for busy me 
I think I can probably call this column a public servicH warn­ing Al'ltw all. I did tPII th<' guy I was going lo do this, anrl what good is a threat if you don't follow through? 
You arP wond!1ring, I suppos11, what I am talking about. Let me tl'll you. It is Tuesday night of' last week. I have just finished working 
11vc hours at the dining hall, and I am a tired puppy. It is 10 o'clock p.m. I am supposed to nrnet a friend at a place on 31-33 as soon as I can. SinCI~ it is 10 p.m., tlwre is no way, short or Cod himself commanding mo and making himself visible in a lfory cloud, that I am going to walk over to :n -3:-l via St. Mary's Lame. So I call a cab. 
t\nd tlw trouble ht!gins. 
Marlayna Soenneker 
Here We Go 
Again 

I call Yellow Cab. Tlw barPly intl'lligiblc man says that my cab will bP lwre. and I quotfi. "Soon." So I sPttlH down to wait. I call my fri1•nd so lw will know when I l11ave. I get off the phone with my f'ricnd af'tnr 20 minutes. 
;\nd I wait some more. 
It is now 10:40. I call YPllow Cab again. I ask where my cab is. I am lold that there was sonw conf'usion. but now they have morn drivers, and my cab will be there in 10 minutes. All right, I think. Fif'ly minutes is a bit excessivn, but what can I do'? 
Fifty minutes was just tlw beginning. 
I call back at 11:10. a full :-w minutns after !lrn JO-minute esti­matn, and I am told th!i cab will now be here "very soon." IlowtWl!I', lw absolutnly rnfusos to give me an actual time esti­matn. 
My t'ril'nd is now calling•me Pvnry 10 minutes to see if the cab has arrivod. I think to mysPlf', if Domino's doesn't make it in 30 minutPS, the pizza is f'ree, so I think that if'Yellow Cab doesn't mak!i i,t in :10 minutes. they ought to have to build a time machinn and get you there on tinrn for free. 
o,w I0-minute call goes by. then two. Three, and on the fourth rail. at I I :50. my friend tells me he will come get me and walk mp over to :n so I will be safe. You know what happens next. Tim cab shows up. 
or rnursc. I no longer rrned the cab. So I tell the guy why I don't 1wPd his cab; hn took loo long. 11£' says, "Oh." I say that he told nw it would lw "soon" and I do not consid11r two hours "soon." To which he smartly replies. "it wasn't 1wo hours. Your call rnnrn in at 10:0:{." I apologizn. Only 1 hour and 50 minutes. Oh. tlw vasL cliffnrnnt'.e. 
llownwr. I tnll him. 1 hour and 50 minutns is still not soon. It's not'' Im dares to ask. 
I almost have a conniption fit on the phone. "No!" I yell, "that is not soon!" I am a busy collegn student, and I do not have two hours to spPncl waiting for a cab. BPsides that, he lied to me. If Im had told ml' it would takn two hours. I would have called someone else. 
lln tells nw he did not lie. I reiteratn that two hours is not soon. and lw dnfinite!y said soon. I say somnthing morn about being a busv N0Lr11 Dame student. I am tlwn treatnd to a Lirade from him abo-ut how his mother worked al Notre Damp for 50 years and wlmn slw retired all slrn got was $91 a month for a pnnsion. 
I am sorry. I tell him. That's awful. But I have no control over lwr pension. and he does havn control over cabs. No, hn doesn't, lrn hills me. What?! You work there! I say. Of course you have some control over cabs. 
lhi asks me what it is that I am after. I tell him that I want him Lo stop lying to people. I-le says he wasn't lying. We have the two­hours-isn't-soon exchangP again. I tell him that I am a columnist al our pap!,r hem. aml I am going to write about this experience in my column next week. I also tdl him lhat I hope 110 one ev11r takos his cab company ,wnr, nver again. I tell him good night and hang up. 
So that's why I had to writ1i this column about this topic. \!\'hat's tlw point of being a columnist and threatening to write a column about being treated badly by a local company if you 1wvnr follow through'? 
;\nd I do hope no one ever takes his Yellow Cab company ever, !WI!!', again. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a freshman psychology major. The views expressed in this rolumn are those of thr author and nol necessarily those of The Observer. 
O
THF 

BSERVER page 11 
GUEST COLUMN 

Will vouchers end public schools? 
TUCSON, Ariz. Arizona's SuperintPndent of Public Instruction Lisa Graham Keegan might be getting a new job. 
It depends on whether GOP prnsidential con­tender George W. Bush a) wins the presidency this November and b) agrees to appoi~1t the McCain _sup-Sheila Bapat porter his Secmtary of Education. 
If all of the above come 

Arizona Daily 
true, America can kiss the 

Wildcat
public education system goodbye. 

It is no secret that Keegan ha'l championed a highly conservative approach to education. Sho wants to turn public education into a market-based system, which makes lrnr the darling of those who want lo end the public edu­cation system. 
Pundit George F. Will wrot11 an endorsement for her in his April 17 Newsweek column that likened to a love poem. 
"Keegan ... supportud John McCain, who, regarding straight talk, is a shrinking violet com­pared with Keegan, a Stanford-educated intellec­tual who radiates prickly thought<;,'" Will wrote. 
Instead of improving the current education sys­tem, Keegan's influence would eventually tear apart a public education system that ought to be saved. 
Tho conservative premise that a market-based Brlucation system is best is wrong. Even though vouchflrs allow for "public choice," which on the surface sounds like a fine idea, it does nothing for the children who need the most help. 
Appan•ntly, Keegan believes that once you give parents a choice about wh11re thev can send their kids to school, all educational problems are solved. 
But the poorest students will not be able to find their way out of' a ghetto simply because the gov­ernment sends them a check and says, "Go pick a school!" 
There are structural problems that public choice programs do not solve. lnst11ad of trying to fight the root of the problnm -impoverished neighborhoods and cycles of poverty -vouchers will only allow the most privileged students to truly have control over where they go to school. A single-parent welfare family with many children will probably not be able to get out of their neigh­borhood in order to find a bett11r school. 
Poor schools exist in poor neighborhoods. And poor neighborhoods aro the key problem that K11egan's agenda does nothing to solve. Simply taking a few lucky kids out of a bad neighborhood does not get to the root of the nation's education problem. 
Students should not have to move anywhere in order to receive a good public education. The goal is to make all public schools good, to improve the systom as it is. 
But Keegan wants a revolution. 
"I Keegan] does tend to IP-an toward completely changing things, blowing them up and starting over instead or building on succoss," Penny Kotterman, president of the Arizona Education Association, told The Associated Press. "She is clearly a spokesperson for the Republican agenda for education." 
Will's love poem to Keegan proves that she rep­resents the conservatives' educational agenda. He writes, "Bush would be wise to start now using his campaign to raise her profile as his kind of conservative and to begin plagiarizing from lrnr." 
Even though Keegan supported McCain in the Republican primary, her conservativt. agenda should win her plenty of support within the party for the appointment to Secretary of Education. She is a prime conservative candidate for the post. 
lfwc elect another President Bush, America should pucker up. It will soon bP kissing public education goodbye. 
This column.first appeared in the University of Arizona newspaper. the Arizona Daily Wildcat. on April 18, 2000 and is reprinted here courtesy oflf-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are tlzuse uf the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
American way is not best for everyone, for Elian 
For the most part, Americans accept differences in opinion, lifestyle and ideology; however. there are those in our nation who believe that the American way is the right way and the only way. These Americans disregard the foundations of our country based on freedom of speech. thought and religion and condemn and punish those whose political and social views differ from their own. These Americans would tear a family apart through their prejudicial disposition. These peo­ple have. for over live months, kept a father and son apart due to politics and ideological differ­ences. 
Elian Gonzalez became separat11d from his father last Thanksgiving when Elian's late mother tired to reach America and took Elian along for the ride. Now Elian nimains locked in the home of his Miami rclativcs who adamantly refuse to either return Elian to Cuba or to l;is own father. The Miami family's reluctance to return Elian might be understandable if his father had been abusive, if he had no job or means of supporting his family, or ifhe had a criminal record, but in reality he's not guilty of' any of' these offenses. Juan Miguel Gonzalez, Elian's father, is guilty of being Cuban and living under the Communist regime of Fidel Castro. 
The battle cry of the thousands of supportnrs and protesters outside of' the Miami home of' Elian's relatives is to keep Elian in the USA at any cost. Elian must stay in the united States because here Elian will live a better life than he woultl in Cuba. Why should Elian go back to Communist Cuba when he can instead lite a better life here with MTV. the Gap, school shootings, the NRA and capitalism'' Does this mean that all children living in family on welfare should be taken away from their mothers and fathers because them are certainly better, wealthier homes in which tlmy could live'? Arc all parents in Communist China unlit to raise their c>Wn children'? 
I'm tired of listening to the Miami relatives claim to work for what's in the best interests of the child. The political affiliation of .Juan Miguel does not impair his ability to raise his childrcm. Evfm though America is a capitalist democracy, it does not indicate that all other forms of govern­ment are inferior and unacceptabln; therefore, we should not penalize members of other nations with differing governing philosophies by taking away their children. It is simply unacceptabl11 to claim to work in the best interests of Elian by using him as a political pawn while keeping him away from his father. 
Elian's Miami n~latives have manipulat11d the government and America itself for far too long. Time after time, this fornily has disobeyed federal mandates and laws tu keep lhe child in their home and in America. Their motives are political­ly driven and have divided a family. It is time to reunite Juan Miguel and Elian before the prejudi­cial ideologies of his Miami relatives begin to innuence Elian hims11lf. 
Clayton Swope l'reshman. Sorin College April 19, 2000 

Thursday, April 20, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page9 
Vermont senate backs gay unions 
Associated Press 
MONTPELIER, Vt. 

Bobbi Whitacre and Sandi Cote are already making plans for a small ceremony sanctifying their 33-year relationship. The women am just disappointl•d they won't be considernd "marri<1d." 
A bill that passnd the Vermont Sonatn on W1. d1wsday ·gets as cloirn to gay marriag1• as any place in Anrnri(:a, bul it still rcserv<~S "marriage·: for oppositti-scx couples. ~ 
"It's a biUersweel victory, I think. for a lot of us," Cote said. "To havo to stop short or thn goal, it's disappoint­ing 
On a 19-11 vot1'., the Snnate passed a bill creating "civil unions," a fpgal strur,turc paralld to marri.agc !'or gay and losbian eouplcs. 
Thi' landmark proposal would grant to same-sex cou­ples som,~ 300 state benefits of marriagn, including med­ical docision-making, tax brnaks and inheritance, No other state has conl'crred morn than just a handful of the b(11wlits. 
"It's grnat that it passPd," 
said B,ith l{obinson, one ol' 
tlw lawyers who SU('.(:essfully 
arguPd beforn thP Vermont 
Suprnnw Court that gay and 
lesbian couples were being 
unconstitutionally denied the 
bPnPfits of' marriagt'. The 
court left tlw decision to tlw 
l.11gislatur!' how to provide 
those rights. 
Hieb Condori, 44, an oppo­nent of the bill, listened grim­months of my life, I've faced to the roll call of sena­learned a lot about what it's tors -and said they were like to be discriminated making a huge mistake. against. [ also began to 
"I truly, truly believe that understand the goodness of the Supreme Court, the legis-my fellow Vermonters." 1ators, and others, don't Because lawmakers decided understand what they're to reserve the status of mar­doing," he said. "They don't riage only to heterosexual understand the consequences couples, gays and lesbians of their vote." would not be able to qualify 
The House voted 76-69 .in f'or federal" benefits available March to provide civil unions. to opposite-sex couples, such The Senate largely agreed as sharing Social Security with thu House's approach to benefits, immigration status the issue, but changed some a.nd some tax provisions. of the language in the bill Whitacre, 52, and Cote., 53, 
and also moved up the effoc­"It has not been an easy ti vc date 
journey. But for a Jew 
by two 
months ofmy life, I've
months to July 1. learned a lot about N o w 
what it:r; like to be 
t h e 
discriminated against. I 
H () u s C 
will have also began to understand to vote 
the goodness ofmy
o n fellow Vermonters." 
whether lo accept t h e 
Rlcharcl Sears 
Senate's 
Vennont Senate Judiciary
changes. 
Chairman
Ho use 
Speaker '.Y1 ichae I Obuchowski said he did not believe anyone would bad off from his or her original votn. Gov. Howard Dean has promised to sign the bill. 
"It has not been an easy journey," said Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Richard Sears, a Democrat. "But for a fow 

are you a senior? do you ~arve a job? 
are you going home instead of to work? is graduation approaching like an out-of-control train? have you even started to think of what you're going to do? 
does your major suddenly seem useless? 
Relax. Don't pan:c. thepavement.com is here to help. 
It's not too late to take advan­tage of our totally free national database of entry-level jobs. Register. Upload your resume. Apply for a job today. Then get advice about moving and a lot more. 
Go to thepavement.com now and register. It's free. and it takes just minutes. And those minutes will be worth it. 

of Manchester had almost decided thev would no"t enter into a civil union out of frustration that the state wouldn't allow them to marry, but they decid­ed to go ahead with a ceremo­ny anyway. 
"I have diffi­culty with sep­arate but equal," Cote said. "I fought for civil rights down in 
Alabama in the '60s. And that's what this state is let­ting happen, second-class cit­izens in the year 2000." 
Even though they know there's one more vote to come in the House, people like Whitacre and Cote arc beginning to plan their futures. On Sept. 15 -the anniversary of Whitacre's late grandparents' 58-year marriage -they'll hold their ceremony. 
"After 33 years. she's final­ly going to make me an hon­est woman," Whitane said. 


Hope, pain mark Columbine anniversary 
Associated Press 
LITTLETON, Colo. 
The carpenter who last year erected wooden crosses for the 15 victims of the Columbine High School massacre returned to Colorado to restore the memorial as mourners pre­pared to mark Thursday's anniversary of the tragedy. 
Greg Zanis wanted "to honor the families of the victims," his wife, Susan, said in an inter­view from their Aurora, IIL, home. 
His truck carried 13 crosses this time, in deference to one victim's parents who ·had torn down the two crosses repre­senting the two student gun­men. Doth boys committed sui­cide after the rampage. 
The April 20, 1999, massacre was the won,t school shooting in U.S. history. and it affected thousands of people worldwide who watched on television as police circled the building and terrified students fled the school, including one seen dropping from a library win­dow. 
At nearby Clement Park, where the crosses were erected after the slayings, workers unloaded orange-and-white barricades Wednesday in antic­ipation of thousands of mourn­ers at a public memorial service and a candlelight vigil planned Thursday. 
Elsewhere. victims' families organized memorial services to mark the day, and officials pre­pared for a statewide moment of silence, 
The school itself remains off­limits to the publir,. 
Davadas Mosns, a doctor from Loma Linda, Calif., in Denver on business. tried to reach it 

HOLY DOGS THE NEW ALBUM FEATURING THE SINGLE "NEW BEGINNING " 
ON TOUR FOREVER! 
Appearing live at Depauw University on April 25 Album on sale at Best Buy 
Wednesday hut was turned hack by security. 
"I just wanted to get a sense of it in my own mind." Moses said as he walked through Clement Park. 
Many survivors, still coping with their grief, planned to stay away from the services and the Littleton area Thursday. 
Columbine's attendance has dropped this week, with 263 of 1,885 students absent Tuesday, said school district spokes­woman Marilyn Saltzman. Attendance was "way down" Wednesday but figures were not available by midaftcrnoon. 
''Most of"the people I've talked to are trying to get as far away from this place as possible ­the ones who were actually there," said Karen Nielsen, who was working in the cafeteria when the first shots rang out. 
Kim Blair. a Columbine senior who saw her friend Anne Marie Hochhalter wounded, planned to spend the anniversary with her family in a hotel. 
"Everybody I know is going up to the mountains or trying to get away for the day at least," Blair said. "For some, it's an emotion­al thing. Last year was so horri­fying that they just can't be any­where near that place at that time." 
Still, officials expected a good number of students at the pri­vate assembly. Classes are can­celed for the day, and atten­dance is not mandatory. Teddy bears sent in the wake of the shootings were to be set out for students to take if they want. 
Gov. Bil! Owens planned to lead a public service at the Capitol in downtown Denver, including a statewide moment of silence at 11:21 a.m. MDT, the time the attack began. 
While higl blood pres.sure may have no symptoms, It does have W1Sequer.ces. 
Like increasing your risk of heart attack aoo stroke. That's wcy you should ask your doctor to check yoor blood pressure and help you control it. Learn more at www.americanheart.ors or 
call 1-&o-AHA·USA1. 
. H ,,,_
Amencan earl Association, 
11is spac, pro.mi as aplblic """'· 01999,NnericMHeafl~ 


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 OBS~RVER Thursday, April 20, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Norre D;1me, IN 46556 024 Somh Dining H,ill, No,re Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
r-.1ike Con11olly 
M.\NAC.ING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Norean Gillespie Tim Lane 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS Mll.'<AGER Tim Logan Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR! Anne Marie Maringly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila HJughcy Sro1ns EDITOR: Kerry Smirh SCENE EDITOR! Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR! Liz I.ang 
MVERTlSING MANAGER: Par Peters Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chis Avila SYSTFMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WES ADMINISTRATOR: AJam Turner CONTROll.ER: Bo!:> Woods GRAPHICS EDirnR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAG£R/GENEIW.1Nf0..........., .. (,31-7471 fl\){... ,,,,. . ... ,,.........631-6927 ADYERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
obscrve1@ldarwu1.cc..nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.. .. ....,, ...................631-4542 MANAGII\G EDITOR/ASST. ML..................631-454I BUSINESS OFFICE.... .. .. ................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................63!-5.'\23 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'OINL ......... ,, ....................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENL .....................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.........................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS...,, .......,, .. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ac hrtpJlobsowr.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
weather for up-co-,he 
movies/music for 

minuce forecasrs 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and races ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives m search for 
about The Observer 

amcles published after 
co meet the edicors and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry ofNacre Dame du Lac and Saint Ma<y's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of,he administration ofeither insriturion. The Observer reserves che right co refuse adverrisemems based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofrhe Editor in Chie( Managing Editor. Assisram Managing Editor and department edirors. Comment~ries. lerrers and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is av.iilable to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions chrough letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor muse be signed and muse include contact informarion. 
Ques11011s reg11rd111g Observer policie, should be direct­ed tn 1-.ditor in ChiefMiJ:e Co11nolly. 
Rape is a form of crucifixion 
My last column indicated that in this installment I was going to continue the discussion of the living wage, bul two events have intervened. The first is a daie rape, reported in The Observer. and the ensuing discussion in the letters to the editor. The second is Good Friday, which is tomorrow. 
What is the con­nection between the two events? A letter to the editor from one woman who was date raped provides a clue: "To me, rape is like murder. My body was not killed, but mv soul was. My en'ergf'lic spirit and lovf~ for lif'e were gonf'. I wantf'd my lifo to be over because I could not b(:ar the pain of los­ing something that I had held sacred." 
One claim found in much ol' Christian theology is that Christ is in all peopln and that the task of the Christian is to develop the vision to see this fact and act accordingly. However, when a man rapes a woman -and this is the shape of the vast majority of rapes -he cru­cifies the Christ within her. "My body was not killed, but my soul was." Iler life often becomes one long string of Good Fridays. "My energetic spirit and love for life were gone." 
There are disanalogies, of course. For instance, while it mav have been his calling to go to the cross, the Gospels describe Jesus as clearly having a choice in the matter. No woman is called to be raped and none genuinely choose it. Efforts might be made to imply they do: "Why did she choose to dress provocatively, to drink and to go up to his room after hours if she did not want to have sex with him?" But this logic fails miserably; it is as if to argue that anyone with an expensive car wants it stolen. 
The function such an argument plays becomes clear if we grant that while in no way do women choose rape, it may be the case that it is unwise to, for instance, go up to a man's room after hours. In other words, in certain condi­tions it is unwise to be with Notre Dame men. Notre Dame mon cannot be trust­ed (and it is not wise to view a particu­lar man as an exception). In short, if we keep ourselves from collapsing, for instance, unwise decisions to drink under certain circumstances into view­ing these decisions as choices to be raped, then it becomes clear that the logic that blames women for rape is really an indictment of men. 
Collapsing the unwise decision to drink into the view that the woman chose or deserved to be raped allows a person to turn the indictment on its head and accuse tho woman: given other things that the woman did, either sh(~ really wanted it or the man could not help himself. The view is that uni­versity or legal defense of the man (itself important) requirns yet another crucifixion of the woman. 


This leads to another disanalogy between Jesus' crucifixion and rape's murder of the Christ in women: While Jesus' trial was before his murdr.r. women who arc raped describe their lrial as coming afterwards. Again, the lettP-r to the editor articulates a repeat­edly occurring theme in women's writ­ings on rape. "The months that fol­lowed were excruciatingly painful ... I had a disciplinary hearing where I was forced to sit less than 10 feet away rrom my attacker, only to be dismissed, dis­regarded and having my integrity ripped apart by a University I was raised to luve ... I still question whether or not I should have made that phone call at all. 
Maybe in the long term, I will be proud of thn courage I displayed in standing up for myself, but while I'm still in the short term. I have my regrets." 
The woman's reference to the long and the short term brings. up a third disanalogy: While 
Christ's resurrection occurred in three days and · was "once and for all," a raped woman's resurrec­
tion (the resurrection of Christ within herl -if it occurs at all -is a much longer and uneven affair. A year later, thanks arc to "God. who continually showers my life with blessings," but there are still any number of daily encounters "which all serve as constant reminders of that night." All indi­cations are that the dark nights of the soul will continue. "I live faced with the reality of having to tell my future husband that sex to me is not beautiful or an expression of love, but ugly, forced and painful." 
One of the exchanges or letters following the Observer report concerned whetlrnr men's silence condoned the rape. Behind this exchange is the broader question or what can individual men do beyond themselves not raping wonrnn, There are any number or things that they can do, but tomorrow provides us with one possibility. Good Friday is a day for fasting. 
The practice ot' fasting has a variety or purposes, and three are worth men­tioning here. The lirst is fasting as an expression of sorrow. We need to mourn the souls killed and pray for their rnsurrection. 
The second purpose is fasting as a form of protest. We need to protest the men who rape and the attitudes that facilitate rape (for instance,, the view that men undf'r certain conditions are not expected to control themselves). We need to protest at one and the same time the assumption that Notre Damp mm1 cannot be trusted and the prac­tices of Notre Dame men that give cre­dence to that assumption. W<\ need to protest any logic that turns the violonl action of men into an in<lictmPnt of' women. 
I understand that Notre Dame stu­dPnts arn, in genf'ral, not givnn to protest (it is not my lirst inclination nither). But if Notre Dame men ani incapable of protesting any suggestion that they are incapable of moral direc­tion and self-control, thr,11 maylrn thoso who foster such a suggestion an) right. 
Whetlrnr sihmce condo1rns an action of' another pnrson d(!p<'nds in largP part on wlrntlrnr the action is an isolatml incident or part of a pattern. Them have been enough roports of dale rapo (a notoriously under-report()d crime) that the "isolated episode" explanation 
is suspect. It is important !'or men to 

ak. To speak well, however, 
requires discernment, and 
this leads to the third pur­
pose or fasting: it provides 
\ the occasion for self­
examination. What kind 
of environment am I liv­ing in? What are the 
patterns of' speech and action'? Do I reinforce patterns that subtly or 
not-so-subtly con­
tribute to an environ­
ment where date rape 
occurs on a regular 
basis'? Do I laugh al 
certain jokes? Do I let 
certain comments 
about women slide 
rather than risk con­frontation with 011<1 of' my dormmatcs'! I am 
sure that you can think of more questions for discernment yoursPlves. 
M<rn of Nolrn Dame, I am fasting tomorrow, and I will do so not only rnmcrnhnring Christ on tlrn cross 2,000 years ago, but also Christ on the cross in the 
women at Saint Mary's and Notrn Dame who have been rap1id. 1know that many of you are going honrn for the Easter triduum. Still, this is som11­thing-just a start, but something ­that you, loo, c:an do regardless of where you am. Mim of' Nolrn Dam(\ will you join m11'? 
Todd /Jauid Whitmore is an assistant professor of theology. lie may be reached al Whitmore. 1@ncl.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obseruer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The problem that has no name -which is simply the fact that American women are kept from growing to their full human capacities -is taking afar greater toll on the physical and mental health ofour country than any known disease." 
Betty Friedan feminist author 


"""fW ..... 
WWW Z.WS 
page 17

Thursday, April 20, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S ROWING 
Tami Schmitz -Nominated by Erin Kennedy
The Women's Resource 

"I nominate Tami Schmitz for the Women's Resource Honor. Tami is a campus minister who gives tirelessly and often is not thanked adequately for her incredible gift of self. To quote a
Center is pleased to honor 

friend, "Tami bends over backward to be nice to every creature on this earth!" She always offers kind words to people and brings a warm presence with her to her interactions with others. I have 
Tami Schmitz for her out­

had the pleasure of working with Tami in the RCIA process through Campus Ministry and she acts as my supervisor for my field education required of all Masters of Divinity students. She has standing contribution to taught me how ot handle difficult situations with poise and compassion. She has been incredibly kind in helping me learn how to resolve conflict successfully. Tami is a wonderful woman and the the community and the Notre Dame community is truly richer for her presence." -f:1mJ::~ 
The Women's Resource Center would like to express our gratitude to the following women who
inspiration with which she 

were nominated tor this honor. They have contributed so much to all our lives and to our univer­sity -we hold them as great examples for our ambitions and for our place in the community. 
enhances so many lives. 

Dr. Barbara Walvoord ...Nominated by Dr. Michelle A. Whaley Dr. Mary Rose D'Angelo ... Nominated by Deborah L. Goodwin Dr. Kathleen Biddick... Nominated by Deborah L. Goodwin Professor Karen Richman ...Nominated by Carolyn Bond, Robert Bossarte, Roshin Sen, Eileen 
I am originally from a farm in Forestville, Wisconsin and I am the youngest 
Mcconnel, Jessica Ziembroski 

of six. i majored in sociology :.it SL Norbert College in DePere, WI as an undergrad and received a 1'vfaster's Degree in Pastoral Studies from Loyola Professor Martina Lopez .... Nominated by Jennifer R. Lewis University, Chicago in 1993. for two years I was a Religious Education 
Jennifer Johnson ...Nominated by Sara Branch 
Coordinator for St. Joserh Parish, DePere, WI. taught four years at Xavier 
Barbara Ann Lockwood .... Nominated by Matt Mulherin 
I ligh School. Appleton, WI and served as a Campus Minister/Pastoral Associate at St. Norhert College from 1992-l 998. I most recentlv joined the Rene Mulligan ... Nominated by Nicholas Ayo, c.s.c. Campus ivlinistrv Team at Notre Dame in the Fall of J998. Mv main 
Sister Pat Thomas ...Nominated by Amy Magnano 
responsibilities iit ND arc RC! A adn Emmaus {small faith sharing communi­
Dr. Rebecca Bordt ... Nominated by Scott Porter 
ties). I help l\ith a variety of retreats like NOE. woman's c.:hoir and senior retn:a! and I also assis! Fr. Tom Doyle in ministering to gay and lesbian stu­Professor Angela Borelli ... Norninated by Vanessa Canavati dents on campus. I have enjoyed my two vears at Notre'bame immensely 
Michelle Janning ... Nominated by Jason McFarley 
and it is delinitclv leeling like "'home." Tf1ere are still moments of, "I can't believe I am realfv herc''-as I arn in awe of tile incredible colleagues I work Louise Edwards ... Nominated by Elaine Bonfield with as well as the wonderful Iv git1:ed and generous students I have encoun­Dr. Gail Walton ...Nominated by Kathy Cogan tered. I simplv feel blessed to"be part ofstrch a faith-filled, supportive com­
Patricia Rangel..Nominated by Celeste Warda 
munity as ND-and I love the varietv of opportunities I have to minister here at Notre Dume. It is evet)thino I tioped for as a campus minister and more!! Professor Maria Tomasula ...Nominated by Heidi Steinke In my Sl)arc time (little there isl!). I serve as a "big sister" in the Big Dean Ava Preacher...Nominated by Monique ChinSee Sister/Little Sister Program of South Bend. Spending time with my "little 
Nicole Shirilla ... Nominated by Sara Baum and Valerie Lee
sister•· Demetria is one of my favorite things to do. I love biking, cross country skiing, hanging out with friends, spebnding tim~ with my fatnily, Chandra Johnson ... Nominated by Tracy L. Washington and I also have a great mterest in Ire land and m the Am tsh !! Dr. Rita Donley ... Nominated by Brittany Morehouse* 
Rima Jeha .... Nominated by Carolyn Nordstrom* 
Amy E. Saks .... Nominated by Erin Christey* 
'We apologize that these nominations could not be reviewed by the judges because of their fate entry 
1ke WM!M 1i<.eMJM!lce er..n/.eJi. Ul{Udd /Jk ta MC~~ c,al.A.i@,.,Jj#;'l jwitp1,<f pa,w/.. 7/.uu.11, ~=(jM,01-4 ~awl 1;?,~ {a1-d U mo-d ~f-0. o/ume ~ ~ ool a/, W-~1f:edd­'.:b~t~,(~ ()~4. [: ;f,1a,,ue,,, ;f,1M-11i,e/J(>W.8'1, () MM, /]aA/wu,, t;-/].i,i,z,,, (<,· 
''Will and I" 

An Evening with Michael York 
A One Man Show based on a lifetime ofPerformances of the Works of William Shakespeare 
April 27th at 7:30pm in the Jordan Auditorium 
General Admission $20 Students $12 
Box Office (219) 631-8128 limited Tickets Available 
Formal attire required 

Sponsored by the Summer Shakespeare Program 
jPlease recycle The Observer.I 
Irish boats complete successful weekend 
Specisal to The Observer 
The Notre Dame's women's rowing team completed a high­ly-successful weekend this Sunday with a silver medal, three fourth-place finishes, and fifth and a 
seventh place fin­ishes in the finals of the Southern Inter-colle­g i a t e Rowing Association 

Champion-Stone ships. 
The second varsity eight boat of Leah Ashe, Joslyn Moreau Allison Barsch, Emily Deye, Elizabeth Nerney, Maureen Carr, Kerri Murphy, Megan Feelv, and Erin Kiernicki claimed the silver medal by fin­ishing second in 7;11.20. Clemson won the race with a time of 6;58.7. 
After placing second to top­seeded North Carolina by only 
1.4 seconds in the semifinals Saturday, the varsity eight team of Katie Besson, Katherine Burnett, Amy Braun, Lauren Lyons, Katrina Ten Eyck, Kristen Vandehey, Courtney Mercer, Michelle Olsgard and Claire Bula placed fifth in 7:02.70. Tulsa won the race in 6:53.10. 
The first novice eight team of Erica Drennen, Beth Fryzynski, Beth Jeub, Julia Kelly, Casey Ruckstaff. Becky Luckett. Ashlee Warren, Ann Marie Dillhoff and Cassandra Murphy placed fourth in a time of 7 ;07. 90. The second novice crew of Sarah Drenzes. Becky Campbell, Kathryn Anderson, Megan McPherson, Ann Gurucharri, Laura Aull. Katie McCaulden, Andrea Amoni and Pam Swan also placed fourth in 
7:52.90. Duke won both the first and second novice eight. 
The novice four squad of Kelly Malloy, Jessica Manske, Kelly Mahaney, Melissa Slavin, and Cynthia Lee were also fourth in 8:08.50. North Carolina State took iirst with a time of 7 :50.30. 
The varsity four crew of Sandra Peterson, Mary Lampe, Cassandra Stuart, Kolleen Myers and Cassie Markstahler finished first in the petite final and seventh overall with a time of 8:16.00. 
The Notre Dame women's rowing team travels to Madison, Wis., Saturday, April 22, for the 2000 FutureSystems Midwest Rowing Champion­ships. The albano buoyed course is 1,850 meters long starting at Wingra Park and finishing at Vilas Park. The Championships' first race of the day is the Second Novice Eight race, which begins at 6;24 a.m. and concludes with the Grand Final, the women's varsity eight at 7;00 p.m. 


page 18 The Obsemer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 20, 2000 
COLLEGE MADNESS NIGHT AT THE COVE 
April 25 · Gates open at 6 -First pitch at 7 FR££ Game Ticket with Student I.D. Music from the band "High Street" from 6 to 7 $5 all-you-can-eat buffet in the Bull Pen Bar &Grille from 6 to 7 For information call 235 9988 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
No.12 Notre Dame continues win streak 
Villanova was able to tic the Special to The Observer 
game al 3-3 on Chris Larson 
goal with ninfl minutes lPf't lo 
Junior attack Jon Harvey tal­play before the intermission. lied a career-high six goals. but Ilarvev broke the tie with tying th1c• Notre Oamf' school his third ~core of th0 gamr. record for goals in a home The two teams were dead­game. as he led the 12th­locked at 4-4 at the bn1ak as ranked Irish Dauer netted a goal with 4:04 to their fourth Notre Dame 17 lefl in the second quarter. straight win Villanova 9 Todd Ulrich gave tl1P Irish a with a 17-9 5-4 lead a little over a minute victory over into tho second half'. but then Villa~10va the visitors scored thrPe unan­
Notre Dame, who improved swered goals in a two minute its record to 7 -3 on the season. span as thn Wildcats grabbed a scored 12 unanswerPd goals in 7-5 lr,ad with ten minutes lr,ft the second half after !'ailing in lhf\ third quart.er on a Brian behind 7-5 early in the third Marks score. David Ulrich quarter. Seven different play­am,wered with a goal six sec­ers scored in the contest for the onds following Marks' tally and Irish as Notre Dame displayed then Devin Hyan knotted the 
another balanced scoring game at 7-7 43 seconds later. attack. The 17 goals were the Harvey provided the go­most scored by the Irish since ahead goal with eight minutes 
the 17-9 win over Denver dur­left in the third as the Irish ing the 1999 campaign. would go on to tally two more 
Junior David Ulrich tallied goals in grabbing a 10-7 lead four goals and dished off three atkr thrne p1iriods. assists in his best performance Notre Dame scornd tlrn l'irst of the season. while Tom seven goals of the fourth quar­Glatzel added three goals and ter. Villanova linally halted the dished off four assists. Irisb 12-goal run when Jack 
Notre Dame jumped out tu an McTigue scored with three and early 3-0 on two goals by a half minutes remaining. The Harvey. The Irish led 3-0 just Wildcats. who fell to 8-4 overall undPr two minutes into the sec­with the loss, also added a ond quarter before the score late in the game. Wildcats finally got on the The Irish return to action on board with 10:27 rrmaining in Saturday. April 22 at 2:30 p.m. the second 15-minute stanza in search of their fifth straight on the first of Eric Daupr's two win the home finale against goals. Fairfield. 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish lllust play strong at hollle 
season. Brubaker linished the "It is nice to be abln to collect 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
1999 season with 17 goals and ours1;,lves an_d ?.e,t back o.n 
Spom Writer 

4 assists. track. Lam said. l·werybody Is 
Devin Fitzpatrick. a junior working hard and conditioning 
The Notre Dame wonrnn's midfielder. is close behind !this week.I !axers will seek redemption in Brubaker with 11 goals and 1 The Irish first met Ilarvard in their contests at home this assist on the 2000 season. 1')99. losing 15-10 on weekend against Columbia and Junior attacker Caroline Harvard's home turf'. Irish Harvard. Seeking to improve on Samponaro was last ynar·s attacker Kathryn Perrella. now a disappointing 4-8 season leading scorer f'or the Lions, a junior tri-captain. led Notrn campaign, thn Irish will look to notching 21 Dame in that come up with some wins. goals and 8 gam<1 with 
"!L's a really dil1icult thing to assists. "It is nice to be able to thn•e goals. los11." sophomore defender Sarnponaro Carrie
collect ourselves and gel

Kathryn Lam said. "Nobody has 6 goals Marshall. tl11'n
back on track. Everybody

likns to lose to keep going out and 1 assist a sopIHJmo rl'. then'1 and coming up short is so far in is working hard and made 1 2 savPs hard." 2000. in goal f'or tlw
conditiong [this week]." 

Th(i Irish play the Columbia Sophomorn Irish in the loss Lions on Saturday, April 22, Cina Klinn is to Harvard. and take Easter Sunday ol'I' in goal for Kathryn Lam "I rnnrnrnber beforn facing the Harvard Columbia. sophomore defender last season Crimson on Monday. April 24. Kline has after that loss I 
"We'rn all about getting ea1'.h posted a didn't l'r.cl like other rnady," I.am said. "We try .483 savn pnrcnntag11 and a wn playnd to our potPntial," to pick each other up." 1033 GM thus f'ar. Lam said. 
Columbia has 5-5 overall The Irish emerged victorious Thn Crimson are led this sea­record and 0-5 record in tlrn l'rom last year's contest son by junior attack1~r Lauri'n Ivy L(iague. between with tho I ,ions. with a Curkory. who has 9 goals and 2 
Thn Lions are 19-35 under final score of' 13-5. Current assists. Corkery was h0r wam's the leadership of f'ourth-ycar sophomorn tri-captain defen­lead scorer i1{ 1999. ll11ishing htrnd coach Celine sive lnader Kathryn Lam scored with 1(1 goals and 10 assists. Cunningham. The Lions are 4 goals and assistl'd on another Liko Notre Dame, Harvard coming off a 10-day break. goal to lead Notre Dame Lo vic­has morP than one talcntPd Their last game resulted in a tory against thn home team. goalkenper. Junior Keltie 17-7 loss to Yale. "Usually the attack is down Donelan and freshman Nora 
Notre Dame also t'ell to the them scoring," Lam said. "It Guyer havn backed each other Bulldogs on April 15, three just happened to go that way." up in nnt all season. days after Columbia's defeat. Columbia will play Ilarvard Guyer, who has seen tl11\ 
"I think that they are all par­on Sunday, April 23. before thP majority of' game tinw in goal ticularly good teams," Lam Irish face the Crimson on the for hte 2000 season, was an said. "Th11y are all competitive following Monday. The Crimson Honorable Mention All­teams that we are trying to are 4-4 overall and 2-2 in Ivy Anrnrican at tlrn Baldwin [defeat!." League competition. Tlrny School. 
The Lions arr, led by senior arrive at Notre Damn af'tPr a "Whatever it's going to takn midfielder Sara Brubaker, who 15-6 loss to sncond-ranked Jto win I we're going to try and has IO goals and 1 assist this Princeton on April 15. put it out thr,re," Lam ·said. 
SILUER 
HRWKS 
l_ ---­
·----w--------­

Thursday, April 20, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 

TRACK AND FIELD 
NOTRE DAME 

Runners head to 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 

Indianapolis
MARK YOUR CALENDAR! 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN
Why? Because you need a new car! 

Associate Sports Editor 
& The Notre Dame track and field tt>ams will fill out the race >:~ 
entries this weekend with the Indy Relays in Indianapolis. Most of the team has not com­
If you are in the market for a 

peted since a home meet on April 1, since weather ranceled
great used vehicle, 

running events the following week, and very few athletes competed in Saturday's Mt. SAC
we have the answer for you! 

!Mays. 
"We started off April really well, and our nf'1Xt mePt got can­cclied because of weather," women's distance coach Tim 
~ ENTERPRISE CAR SALE c:1.. ~ 
Connelly said. "So we're not really sure where we're at right 
~ MAY13 °-­
now." With just two weeks remain­
JOYCE CENTER PARKING LOT 

ing before the focal point of the team's outdoor season, the Rig East Championships, it's about time the Irish found out where they stood. 
For pre-approval, visit our web site at 
"This meet is sort of ill prepa­ration for the Big East meet,
www.ndfcu.org 

where they'll have to run several events," sprints coach John
or call loan-by-phone at 


Millar said. 'This is a meet when we 're going to try to prepare for

800/567-6328 
the Big East meet. We want to give some people some opportu­nities to run, and make deci­Independent of the University 
sions on who we're going to run at the Big East." Notre Dame faces mainly local schools this weekend and hope 
to come away with the team title. 
\Be like Rudy. Read Observer Sports.\ 
"I don't think it's going to be too hard for our team to win," sprinter Liz Grow said. "It's all coming together. We're working hard, and it really seems to be paying off." 
"If we qualify, that's all right," Millar said. "We're going to run people in several events, which is usually not where you get peo­ple to qualify. You never know about the weather up here." 
Some of Notre Dame's most competitive sprint events will be the 4x100-meter relay, the 4x200-metcr relay, senior Marshaun West in the 200­meter dash, Big East champion Chris Cochran in the 100-and 200-meter dashes, and sopho­more Liz Grow in the 100-and 200-meter dashes. 
On the women's distance end, Erin Olson, Cara Motter, Erin Luby and Patty Hice will square off in the 1500-meter run. Jennifer Handley and Hilary Burn will compete in the 3,000­metcr run and Leanne Brady should pace Notre Dame in the 800-meter run. 
"We're just trying to keep improving," Connelly said. "We're trying to give a lot of people a chance to compete." 
Among field events, West and freshman Tameisha King high­light the long jump, All­American Jennifer Engelhardt leads high jump competition, and freshman Jaime Volkmer powers Notre Dame in the pole vault. 


: DO YOU LIKE APPLES??? : 
: CAMPUS VIEW HAS LARGE SPACIOUS :! ROOMS, IS CLOSE TO CAMPUS, AND ! 
• COSTS LESS THAN MOST OF THE _, -COMPETITION. flt 
: HOW DO YOU LIKE THEM : -APPLES??? 
CALL CINDY TODAY AT 272-1441 TO SET UP -AN APPOINTMENT TO SEE YOUR NEW HOME 
• • FOR THE FALL. • 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 20, 2000 
jumping over us. There was CoopM. other games we won Just by our star Marshaun West to overpow­really nothing we could do." Cooper and Sanders dominat­talent. This game we had to real­er their much smaller oppo•
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
too much height and athletic skill for Unlea.shcd. "They had ton much height," Bevilacqua said. "They were just 
After a Hevilacqua long dis­tance shot balanced out by a Cooper putbar,k, Like Whoa went into halftime ahead 11-9. Like Whoa started off the scr,ond period with three straight bas­kets, one by Johnson and two by 
Results from the Round of64 
Nylon Strokers def. Sofa King Good (21-6) F-Bombs def Pass the ball, Robert! (21-6) Please call us Bosephus def. Passing Aggressive (21-19) Scottie who? def TCB Band (21-12) Sexual Frustration V def. Jimmy Chitwood (21-15} 
Dexy's Midnight Runners def. What's up!! 1 (21-11) 
Guided by voices def. Nobody likes you anyway, Kutylo (21-7) 
Franchise def. Kata skatus (21-14) 
Furious D def. Criminal Nagliganca (21-7) 
The individuals def Team 162 (21-12) 
Mourning Wood def Soup and 4 non-asses (21-9) 
Versatility def. Jesse Spano's Nard H ipples (21-17) 
Like WHOA!! def. Unleashed (21-14) 
The torch def. Ten deep (21-16) 
Fast Eddie def. Joan van Haute (21-13) 
Team 126 def. Beans over frank (21-17) 
Majesties def. Phi slamma clamma (21-13) Double Down def. Pistol Packin' Mammas (21-14) Nunc Dimmitis def. How's your mom? (21-6) 
Corby's def Freshman MOB (21-16) 
Irish Drop-outs def. Manual Steering (21-18) 
One-tenth asian def. Linebacker lounge (forfeit) 
BECOME A COMIC 
1H\~ ME'A1'45 
Yoo, eue,. 
Interested? 
Contact connolly.28@nd.edu 

ed the boards for Likfl Whoa, while Cooper and Jnhnson scored most of the second half points. Cooper knocked down six of the final 11 buckets. 
"This game was more defense," Johnson said. "The 
~acr~
in~ 
2000 
Carpe Diem def. One investment banker & 4 guys with a life (21-16) 
Donkey Ball def Pro Bono (21-10) 
NDToday.com def. Changes 
Key Play .com def 5 pepperoni bread sticks (21-6) 
Freeballers def. All of the following are .. (21-16) 
Five Degree Guarantee def Nothing personal (21-4) 
Malicious Prosecution def. Hairpie (21-15) 
Rampage def. Liquid Schwarz (21-1 O) 

Coco Butter def. 3 fun dip, pixie stix and 3 other reasons my nephew wears a helmet (21-13) 
ly buckle down on defense and make plays on offense." 
Unleashed could have made it more of a contest, but its shots weren't !'ailing through the hoop. 
"It could have been close." Bevilacqua said. "If just a few shots went in, but what r,an you do'?" 
Sixth-ranked Coco Bulter defeated run Dip. Pixie Stix, and Three Other Heasons My Nephew Wears a I lc:lmet 21-13 despite a driving downpour. 
"Speed and quickness are our strengths," Coco Butter player Tony Fisher said. "We had to slow down our press." 
Fisher and two of his fellow Notre Dame football teammates Lee Lat'avette and John Owens joined boug Conn,us and Fighting Irish track and field nents. 
"Basically we're just trying to have some fun out here," Fisher said. "It would be rr,al grnat to win it [the tournament]. As long as we play as a team. we've got a good chance to do that." 
No. 13 Double Down sent home the Pistol Packin'· Mamas by beating them 21-14. 
Double Down. with a roster or five off-campus seniors in Coley Brady, Larry Zimont. Steve Alfred, Daniel McGowan and Matt Ott, sr,ored livr. of the last seven points in thn ganrn to cement the vktory. 
"We just startr.d running it at the end. and we got a couple of easy baskets." Mdiowan said. "We played tough defense tonight. If we hit our outside shots, we can go far." 
C.J.'s Pub 
Friday Night Le11.teti Dinner Specials
Friday Night Lenten Dinner Specials
Friday Night Lenten Dinner Specials 
Ht FIIII 
FIIH l6N9WltH 
Flll9 IHIIAe 

,....,•• w/ , ••• , 
Changingthe Face ofPsychology 
"J cho.1e ISPP becau.;e it had a .;mall .1chool atmo.1phere an;J it had the type ofprogram that I Wad looking for. Being able to tra,uition from the Madler.; 
program to the Doctoral Wad a definite plu.;/" 
-Diana M. Bonifas 

Illinois School of Professional Psychology Student 
From private practice to corporations, from counseling 
centers to board rooms, today's psychologists and 
professional counselors are finding endless opportunities 
waiting for them. 
Graduate Programs Offered... 
• 
APA Accredited Doctorate in Clinical Psychology (Psy.D.) 

• 
Clinical Psychology (M.A.) 

• 
Counseling Psychology (M.A.) 

• 
Health Services Administration (M.S.) 


• Postdoctoral Respecialization Programs 


Illinois School of Professional Psychology 
Chicago Campus 
Two.first National Plaza, 20 S. Clark St., Third Floor, Chicago, IL 60603 
1-888-488-7537 
www.aspp.edu or visit our on-line campus at http://argosy.aspp.edu 
Thursday, April 20, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Men 
continued from page 24 
ry when Cascy Smith and .Javier Taborga each won 7-5 in the third set of his singles malch to secure a 4-3 win. 
The Irish have recorded imprnssivc wins in thf' c:on­l'c:rcnc!' rhampionship. and thrnc currrnt Irish playMs nntrr this WPrkrnd's compt'· lilion a/'lt!r pnrfofl perfor­m a 11 ('. <' s i n s i n glcs a y <~ a r ago. In his third app<'aranrn in th1• Big East Championship. /\ll-/\n11'rinrn and 1Oth­
arc taking a real cautious path with him, which is wise. 
The Irish's Andrew Laflin Inst his only singles matc:h in last year's competition, while Aaron Talarico went 1-0 in doubles. 
Senior Trent Miller, the only other current player besides Sn,chirn to hav<' c:om­pete<l in more than one Big East Championship, has a 2­1 rncord in doubles play 
In the ahsencH of Ta.borga, who has paired with Talarico throughout the sea­son tfJ form the No. 1 Irish <luri. Mil!Pr and Sachire will 
fill in al lhe 

rank<'d Hyan ..J,Ve eked it out last time top doubles 
Sal·hir<' did spot. The
/over Miami in the final].

not SlHl"Pll· pairing cun­r!Pr a match. They are a good team, ti nu es to ('.apping iL 4-play solid
ancl it is a pretty spirited

L sing Ins doubles.
rivalry."

rc•ron] in his compiling a lh rl'c Y('.trs l 2 3 ol µlay. record sincr
Bob Bayliss 

Smith Lal­an 8-2 win
head coach

li cd a :l-0 mark lasl y(' a r , ,\· hiIt' Ta b o r ga w o n both ol' his singks rnatchns. lloWf'VPr. thl' Irish will most likely bP without. the services of Taborga this w<wkond, becaus<' of ling,,ring snrl'­1wss in his wrist. 
Traborgal is out indnfi­11itP!y ," Bayliss said. "It's possible ht' 'll bn back for tlrn Big East. but probably won't. llis wrist is sore, and they 
0 V e r 
KPntur.ky on February 8. and have gained victorv over four ranked tl'ctms·during their recent "'ins. proving their capability or filling in at No. 1 doubles. 
NotrP Dame will suit up on Friday to !'ace ils tirst oppo­nent. and no matter the lirn~­u p composed by coach Bayliss, thP Irish will look to keep a hold of the Big East 
title. 

Got sports? Call 1-4543 
Holy Cross College is a small, close-knit, two-year liberal arts college where you'll get the personal attention you need for success.W'l!'ll challenge you, too ... with an expanded curriculum that includes a new Associate ofArts in Business Administration 
degree. And wait till you discover our campus life. We've spruced up the landscaping, added new sports and recreation facilities and created more on-campus ,housing. Just recently, we broke ground on a new student apartment complex. Looking for the path to a brighter future? It starts right here at Holy Cross. 
BASEBALL 
• 

Irish, Pirates battle for Big East 

By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Spores Writer 
Last year, the Pirates and Irish came out of their season battle with a draw, as each team won two of thP. four games the teams played. This year, a resurrer.tod Irish team sporL-; a 29-8 record as they begin their Easter week­end play today with a doublr~­hcader in South Orange. N.Y. 
This weekend's games arf' crucial for Notre Dame. who also visits c;eorgetown for a Holy Saturday doubleheader. The Irish and Pirates enter tomor­row's games tird for serond in tho Big East, both sporting 8-4 records within the conference. Notre Dame. howevPr. has the better overall season record as Seton Hall has 24 wins to go along with 10 losses. 
The Pirates are led by utllity player Alfie Critt>lli. who curnmt­ly is tied for the Big East lead in home runs with 12 and in runs batted in with 46. SPton Hall A.lso boasts the Lop two base stealers in the conference as Mike Bascom and Joe Cuervo are tied with 21 apiece. 
Notre Dame will counter with their own offensive attack. Catcher Matt Nussbaum and shortstop Alec Porzel have been on fire as of late. Shortstop Porzel is the team's leading hit­ter with a .351 average. Nussbaum was the catalvst as the Irish took on Seton Hall last season, batting .500 while scor­ing five runs and driving in four more. 
Notre Dame will likely start veterans Scott Cavev and Aaron Heilman in today's games. 


Heilman, coming off a career­best 18 strikeout game against West Virginia, is 7-1 on the sea­son with a conference leading 74 punch-outs. Heilman. however, has given up 7 runs in 9.2 career innings against Seton Hall. 
Cavey, coming off of an impressive win over the Mountaineers, fared much better against Seton Hall last season, giving up one run in six innings to collect the win. Cavey also had seven strikeouts in the game. 
If the Irish can get past the Pirates, the Georgetown games provide a chance for Notre Dame to increase its conference standing. The Hoyas are a woe­
* HOLY ~ROSS COLLEGE 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
P.O. Box 308 Notre Dame; IN 46556-0l08 
21Y-.239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 
www.hcc-nd.edu 
©2000 HCC 
LIZ LANGffhe Observer 

Matt Nussbaum takes a pitch against Bowling Green last week. Last season, Nussbaum performed well against Seton Hall with five runs and four RBIs, and the Irish hopes he repeats this performance against the Pirates this weekend. 
ful 1-14 in conference play this year. 12-30 overall. 
Last season, the Irish won all . three of the meetings between the teams. Designated hitter Paul O'Toole batted .400 against Georgetown as a freshman, dri­ving in four runs. Fellow sopho­more third baseman Andrew Bushey homered against the Hoyas, batting .375 in the four games. 
The Irish return home to play a few local games during the week next week. The team takes on Western Michigan on Tuesday at Kalamazoo and Michigan on Wednesday at Comstock Park. 

TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 2ijijl-lijij2. 
All first year students, ~ophomore~ ana especiall~ juniors interested in Graduate ~tuay Aoroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor Alain Toumayan 
Tuesday evenin~, April 1), 1000 at b:00 pm in room Bo DeBartolo 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 20, 2000 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

.. 
Irish look for Big East repeat 
Special to the Observer 
The 13th-ranked Notre llamt: \vomon ·s tennis lf'am travels to Miami this weekend l'or tlrn Rig East Championships. 
The Irish will ht~ looking to defond thr title they won last year by beating tlrn host lturrinurns 4-2 in the champi­onship matd1. 
The Irish completed their most successful r<'gular SPason under 11th-year head coach .lav Lou<lerbark hy beating Miami 6-3 on Saturdav. 
r-.iotn• Damn will be making its l'il'tb appParance at the Big East Championship .:tftcr win­ning in 19%, 1997 and 1999 and finishing SPrond to Miami in 1998. 
The I 3th-ranked Irish have earned thr top seed of the 13 teams in the tuurllament for tlw fifth straight year. Miami, rurrently ranked 43rd in the country with a 9-11, is seeded second. 
Third-seeded Syracuse is ranked 7.'ith, while Boston College is seeded fourth. Notre Dame., Miami and Syracuse receive first-round byes as the top three seeds. 
The Irish will play their first match on Friday, April 21, against the winner of Thursday's match between eighth-seeded Providence and ninth-seeded Rutgers. 
In their first appearance in 1996, the Irish did not drop a match in beating eighth-seed­ed St. John's, fourth-seeded Boston College and second­seeded !'vtiami 4-0 to claim the title. In 1997, the top-seeded Irish blanked ninth-seeded Providence. fourth-seeded Boston College and second­s1ieded Miami 4-0 to win their second consecutive title. 
The Hurricanes snapped Notre Dame's streak by upend­ing the top-seeded Irish 4-2 in the 1998 championship match after the Irish had beaten eight-seeded Georgetown and fifth-seeded West Virginia 4-0. Notre Dame reclaimed the title in 1999 by beating Rutgers and Svracusc 4-0, before clowni;1g Miami 4-2 in the final. 


The Observer returns Wed., April 26, 2000. 

10am -5pm 
1Dam -5pm 10am -5pm 
Lyons Hall 
10am-5pm 
277-6245 
Moll Boxes Etc, SR 23 8: Ironwood 2blocks east of N.D. Free Pick-ups 
plea..con aheadollime 
lo sclisdul& appalnlmenl 

Hildebrandt heads to Australia 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Sports Writer 
Crnt.dwn Ililddirant is rnady to rnprnsnnt. Saint l\lary·s in the land down lllH.iPr. l lildnbrandt, assistant ath!Ptir dirPct.or and hnad womnn's swim roach will participatP in tlw World Amatn1r Triathlon Championships in l'Prth. Australia 1wxt wonk. 
"It's tht! first limn shn's go111· to a com­petition at this lnV<)l," said Lynn Kachmarik, dirl'ctor of al/1l<'lics and rncrnatinn for Saint Mary's . 
Tlw racn begins on Sunday, April :HJ, and includns a I .SK swim. 40K bik<~ rac.n and a ]OK run. Ililckbrandt will leavn South Bnnd on April 2:~ to fly to tlw com­

petition. Hildebrandt 
11 iIck b rand t q u a I iffo d f'o r tlrn Charnµionships by competing in sevnral national meets ov1•r tlw past ynar. She has bePn training sinc1i early Or.tob1!r. 
"I've gone to the national competitions bef'oni," l lildnbrnndl said. "I went to a national spring championship in N<'W Jersey and placed fif'lh in my agii group." 
Hildebrandt. at 24, will compete in the 20 to 24-y<·,ir-old age bracket in the Championships as she has dono since she b(~gan competing in triathlons in May of' last year. 
"I never thought about triathlons until the middhi of last year, when a friend suggested them to me," llildcbrandt said. "Since I've been running and swimming on my own. I thought I would try it. I did seven races altogether last year." 
"To me [llildebrandt's commitment to athhiticsl is a grnat message to the women at Saint Mary's," Kachmarik said. "She's really been training heavily sincn she got Iwrn." 
"!Triathlons! offer an enjoyable way to keep active and exercise," llildnbrandt said. "Triathlons arn taking a huge step because they're in the Olympics this ynar." 
Hildebrandt recently teamed with several Saint Mary's ath­letes to form a triathlon club. The co-presidents arn juniors Colle1m Sullivan, Lori Schultn and .Jeannn Tiernny and fresh­man Emily Nihill. Tim mmnbers run. swim and bike togethnr each weflk. 
llildnbrandt hopns to use the championships as an opportu­nity to recruit for tb11 Collegn while overseas. 
"I think it is really important to get the word out about Saint Mary's, especially to Australia," llildebrandt said. "A lot of' the students there look to tlrn Unit.Pd Stat<is f'or (\duration, and if I have thn nrnans to !recruit.I I might as wPII promote Saint Mary's while I'm down them." 
Need help on a paper? 
The University Writing Center offers free peer tutoring on a walk-in basis at any ofthe following locations: 
Alumni Hall Knott Hall Center for 

Social Concerns DeBartolo BO12 (basement) 
Sunday-Thursday Sunday-Thursday Mon. and Wed. 
Monday-Thursday 
Visit us on the web at: 
http://www.nd.edu/,_,writing 

7-10 p.m. 7-10 p.m. 7-10 p.m. 
1-4 p.m. 

fhursday, April 20, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
Fox TROT 

(";,REETINGS, FRIENDS, 
I AM THE LADY COOL! GALl>.DR1EL. AN ,'.RM"f '/:~~~ 
OF oRCS! 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Revelries 61 Possible cause 
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 2000 
1 Pastoral pipe 35 Singer's syllable of goose bumps 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON nns
5 Living daylights 36 Peaks 62 Icelandic literary 
DAY: Jessica Lange, Ryan O'Neal,
10 "I Do, I Do, I Do, 37 Cake container classic 
Toller Cranston, Bob Braun, Mauricio 
I Do, I Do" group 38 Author John 63 Baseball's Mel Guge!min, Luther Vandross 14 Assert Dickson and family Happy Birthday: Don't let confu­15 Class 39 Part of a sneaky 64 Loudness units sion be your demise this year. You 
must make decisions. You should be
16 Take the low response 
65 Mont. neighbor 

working on your own creative ideas 
road, in a way 40 Jungle vines 
and developing your iqterests, tal­
17 Star of "The 43 Trask 
ents and future. Spending will be a
DOWN

Producers" ("East of Eden" 
problem if you let your impulsive
1 Level 

19 Needing some character) side take over. Budget carefully and sun 44 Herculon's fiber 2 First name in you will do just fine. The more you 20 One who 46 Sheep farmer's daredeviltry do for yourself and the less help you take from others will determine how
marries in need 3 Architect 
far you can go. Your numbers: 3, 19, 
haste? 48 Distinctive horse Saarinen 
22, 25, 31, 47 
21 Chapter titles 49 Spicy stews 4 Hockey or 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take 23 Pop choice 50 Dr. Pangloss's soccer a look at your options. You should 25 Ilsa's love doctrine, in maneuver try to purchase property for invest­26 When tripled, a "Candide" 5 Aggressive, ment purposes. You may face limita­
tions if you get involved in joint
storeowner's 53 Music moody type, 
ventures. Try to go it alone. 000
asset assignments 
they say 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You
29 Gossiped 57 Shed things 
6 Commuting aids may find that relationships are chang­32 It gives the eye 58 Dangerous area 7 Possible title for ing. Go with your first instincts when color 60 Right after meeting new potential mates or when
this puzzle 

dealing withpresent partners. 000
B_'Pea 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): TakeANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9Swell time to get to know some of the peo­ple you work with. Your connections 


10 Salad jellies Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky 11 Hardly a sign of 
30 Computer
intelligence 
announcement 12 Balkan land: 
31 Fixes a toe? Abbr. 
34 Together 13 Leon of "Mister 
38 Some
Ed" 
spacecraft18 Contest 
40 Former Irish 22 "Buenos 
P.M. 
24 Somewhat, Cosgrave 
colloquially 41 Scoreboard 26 It's a work of art divisions 27 Cantilevered 42 'The Tramp" 
window and 'The 28 XPINPU General," e.g. LPXXOJP, e.g. 45 Forces (on) 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
--------------------------------~-------------~--------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
BILL AMEND 

I'M PRETTY SUR£ WE RUN, 
SAM,
CAN SWITCH SOME. 

RUN!
.__
OF THAT AROUND 

IN EOITINI:,. LOOK oUT FoR THE 
(;,AFFER, 
MR. FRoDo, 
.r1S11/'"llv.ll~Slli'!

'­
The true meaning of Easter, ... 
according to Hallmark. 
beam.1@nd.edu 

HOROSCOPE 
and popularity will ensure help with 47 Certain 54 Some of future projects that you get involved congratulations Duchamp's art in professionally. 000 CANCER (June 21-July 22):
50 "Not that!" 55 They can be 

Social activity should be on your
tight

51 One who works mind, and you may even find that with feet 56 Mont. neighbor getting out will lead to passionate and exciting romantic interludes.
52 Manhattan 59 Peer Gynt's 

00000 
neighborhood mother 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Emotional outbursts can be expected on the home front if you haven't followed 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

the path that the family was hoping are available by touch-tone phone: you would. Keep a low profile and 1-900-420-5656 {95¢ per minute). they will become accepting. 00 Annual subscriptions are available for the 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will be well-received if you take a position of leadership. Don't be afraid to speak your piece. Your ideas will be sound and provide solutions to the situation facing the organization. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It's a good time to make a career move. You can advance within the compa­ny you already work for or make a complete change. Look at all your options and be prepared to make a residential move if necessary. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Don't hold back your true feelings. Someone you have vouched for in the past may let you down and you must make sure that they under­stand how you feel. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Stick to basics. You will accom­plish a lot if you work on your own. Don't rount on those who say they will pitch in. Rely on your own efforts if you don't want to be disappointed. 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Passion may sidetrack you today. Someone you meet during your daily routine will capture your atten­tion and possibly your heart. Be care­ful ifyou're already attached. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Work may be confusing. Someone may not be feeding you all the infor­mation needed to get your job done. Ferret out what you need to know as well as the reason you weren't told. 
00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This will be a great day to get busy and make those changes you have been contemplating. You will pick the right group to join or the best look for a new you. Go for it. 00000 

Birthday Baby: It won't be easy for others to determine what you're going 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
to do next. One minute you're happy to sit and observe, and the next you are 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

right where the action is. You are rurious and inventive, but not always as 
cautious as you should be. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
10 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 .. 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name _________________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ .. 


PORTS 
O
THE page 24 BSERVER 

Arecord six 
In Notre /Jame's , 7-<J win ouer Villarwua. junior a/tack John /lan•ey scored .six goals. tying the Notre /Jame rerordfor goals scored in a home game. 
page 18 

Wednesday, April 20, 2000 
====================================-==============--=======-::._-::.::.::.-::...-::...-_-:_-_-_-_-_-_---~--_-_-_-_-_-_-_--~ 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIX 

Teams emphasize talent, endurance in round of 64 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associ,irc Spores Edi1:nr 
Carp<' Diem wrnt homo Tut-sday night disappointed. aftrr ho\>ving nut of thr Hookstor(• Baskrtball tourna­nwnt with a 21-Ei loss tu Nu. 11 Hit Squad. 
Tlw live guys· spirits soon lift­ed. whim tl1<-'y recrived a phone rnll saying Hit Squad had bt>t-\n disqualifif'<l for having too many varsity nthlet(•s on its squad. 
Bookstore regulations allow for three varsity football players. or one varsity football player aud onP player who has suited up for a Division I basketball program within tlw past 1:i years. Ifit Squad had three foot­ball players on its tPam in Erir ChappPII. Haki Nelson and Joe Ferrer. But since Ferrer had go1w honw early for Easter. Ilit Squad substituted Javin !Iuntt.'r. who was a walk-on on the Notre Dame rnrsity baskrtball team a ypar ago. T!;at. boostPd tl1P num­ber of varsitv football and bas­k(•tball p!ay(!t:s bryond Uw maxi­mum permitlf'd. so Hit Squad's win did not count. 
Carpt' Dit'm advanced to the round or (,4 by default. but Pariwd iL-; way into tlw round of :12 with a 21-1. 7 win over One lm·Pslnwnt Bank<'r and Four Guys with a Life. Carpe Diem scorPd tlw victory dPspite tlw absPnce of assistant varsity bas­kPtball coach Fred ()uartfr,baum duP to a rPtTUiting trip. Greg Morrissey look Quartlebaum's plan'. to round out the rostPr of Kortny llall. Frrd Hanft. .John 
llm.lek and Brian Goddard. 
"Tlw l'ouls got us in troubtt, in the second ball'," I !all said. "But we hit thr. boards hard and always hustln." 
One Invf'stnw11t BankPr lost despite the gut~y pP.rformanrr by its playtcrs. S<rnior l\1ikr Aul.Jrcv dislocated his shouldrr during tlw gitnlf'. but forcPd it back into place and continul;d to pla_v. although in obvious pain. 
"I don't think anything hurt us tonight," Aubrey said, "We _just didn't makP our shots." 
TwPnty-srcond ranknd S<'xual Frustration V movf'd 011 to tlw round of :~2 behind the scoring and rebounding of senior varsity basketball player Skylard OwPns. SPxu,d Frustration V beat Jimmy Chitwood, a group of fivP Dillon guys who played interhall basketball togr.tlrnr, 21­15, aftPr a nailbiter lirst hall' 
Sr.xual Frustration V pul!Pd ahead 18-12, but allowf'd its opposition bar.k into it with two frpe Lhrows and a baskPL Sexual Frustration f'inishml off Jimmy Chitwood with thrrw straight 
points. 
"W<> know we'rp bPttcr than tlwm. and WP just had tD rPalizt! that." Nik Grnt'll of SPxual Frustration said. "Sky. our big man. is key." 
No. 15 l.ik1! Whoa usPd a strong s<'cond hair to knock out UnlPaslwd 21-14. 
ThP winning tr.am, with Kr.vin McGulT. thrPP football playm·s in ;\'Jani Sanders. Dnkt• Cooµer and Jay Johnson and varsity soc­cer player Heggie McKnight. had 
see BOOKSTORE/page 20 


MEN'S TENNIS 

Second-seeded Irish prepare for Georgetown, Villanova 
.... 

No. 29 Notre Dame hopes to defend their title at the Big East Championships this weekend. The Irish are ranked behind first-seed Hurricanes. 

By RACHEL BIBER 
Sports Writer Th<1 hunt for tlir Big East champi­
onship is  on.  and tlrn  Irish  am  in  tlw  
thick of the fight.  
As  the  29th-ranked  Notre  Dam,~  

men's tennis toam travnls lo Coral Gablns, Florida this wcnknnd for the Big East Championships, tlwy will look to dofcnd thnir championship I.ill!! and caplurr. vidory for t\111 third time in fiw ynars. 
Tim 10-9 Irish will bn abln l.o sit bark and rnlax during tho opnning day of' rompotilion aftrr gl'Uing a byn in tlw first round of play. They will then takn on the winrrnr or the match bdwnen <'ighth-seoded Villanova and ninth­SPcdr.d Georgetown on Friday. 
Aftu winning the tournament in 1996 and 1999 and finishing second to Miami in 1997 and 1998, the Irish will 
lw making tlwir !'il'th appt>aranrP in llw rom1wtilion. SP<>dnd spro11CI out of' Uw 1\IPV<'n tPams in tlw ronfPrPncr' l'it>ld. Notr<' DamP stands lwhind top-sPPd1•d. I8th-rankt~d Miami. Florida. S('lting up llw possibility of a n·malrh in thP f'inal of' to111·namPnt play. 
Miami cfpf'nalPd Notr<' Dam<' 5-2 whnn the two tPams nrntrlwd up narli­<ir in the s1•ason, but tlw Irish know th(' y a r p (' a pa b I(~ () r s u (' (' (' ss f'u 11 y d1>/'pnding tlwir championship 1itlP. 
"We PkPd it out last tinw lovn Minrni in tlw f'inall." Irish hPad coach Bob Bayliss said. "Tlwy arP a good tPam, and iL is a prPtty spiriLPcl rivalry." 
In 1999. tlw top-sPPdrd lrish brPPZPrl by Boston Coll(~gP and Hutgns in tlw f'irst two rounds of thn tournanwnt to r<'ach the drnmpionship match against Miami for thn founh straight tinw. ThP Irish postnd a conw-l'rom-bPhind victo­
see MEN/page 21 
Sofrball ~',, at Big East Championships \'v'omen's Lacrosse Track and 11cld vs. Oakbnd (MI) \,::::;;::~·· Miami, Fla. vs. Columbia ar Burler lnvite 
SPORTS t 
Today, 4 p.m. T oday-Sun<lay Saruniay, 11 :30 a.m Saturday, TBA 
ATA • •
Baseball "''1 ac Big East Championships Men's Lacrosse Rowing ac Scron Hall 1.t....~..:.:,.-:,-·· Miami, Fla. v:,. Fairfield at Midwest Sprints 
/4:
Today, 5:05 pm. Today-Sunday Sa1urd;1y, 2:30 p.m. Sawrday, TBA 
GLANCE 





