,_..,________________________________...,.___,............_·------..-------------------.. 
U.S. grants grandmas visas 
Who wants to marry a millionaire? 
The Elian Gonzalez story added a new chapter 
This soon-to-be show on Fox appears to add 
Friday

Thursday as the 6-year-old's grandmothers 
another show to the many spin-offs ofthe 

received visas to travel to the U.S. 
original "Who wants to be a millionaire?" 

JANUARY 21, 

world & nation . page 5 
viewpoint . page 12-13 
2000 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 67 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


Sophoinore Sibs Weekend cancelled 
By LAURA ROMPF 
As5istJnt News E~itor 
Family has long been a part of tho Notre Damn experience, but one campus tradition that celehrates family ended. 
Sophomorn Siblings Weekend recently was cancelled by the Office of Student Activities. 
"flt} may no longer be a viable program," said Joe Cassidy, director of student activi­ties. "It was my decision to cancel Sophomore Sibs Weekend. There were no specific incidences that caused this decision, rather it was due to increasing questions See Also regarding thP program." "Sophomores
Cassidy stated that there 
were a variety of reasons react to for the cancellation. espe-cancellation" cially noting low atten­dance. page 7 
"In comparison to Junior Parents' Weekend where there is around 
1.000 couples of parents, Sophomore Sibs Weekend only draws in a few hundred chil­dren," he said. "Even though there's not a lot of children, dorms still cannot have other social activities and that caused some 
see SIBS/page 6 

FROSTED DOUGHNUT 

KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 
Students hurry by Notre Dame's famous art Thursday as temperatures dipped below freezing and approximately 10 inches of snow were dumped on the campus. Temperatures are expected to be in the teens today with a break from the heavy snowfall. 
King nominated to martyrdom list 

By ERIN PIROUTEK Assistant News Editor 

People of all faiths mourned the loss of civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. on April 4, 1968, but celebration of his dream and accomplish­ments is ever present 
To honor his death in the name of justice, U.S. bishops recommended King be recog­nized as a 20th century mar­tyr. His name joins a group of more than 9,000 suggested by Church leaders in response to Pope John Paul H's worldwide request for Catholics to recog­nize individuals they believe to be last century's most prolific martyrs, 
The project is part of the cel­ebration for the Jubilee year 2000. 
Martyrdom often calls to mind images of early Christians thrown to the lions, however, martyrs also had a real presence in the 20th cen­tury. 
The pope acknowledges the vital role of martyrs in the first millennium of the church and consequently wants to ensure that the numerous 20th centu­ry martyrs are also remem­bered. 
"In our own century the martyrs have returned, many of them nameless, 'unknown soldiers' as it were of God's great cause" writes the pope in his encyclical "As the Third Millennium Draws Near." 
"As far as possible, their wit-. ness should not be lost to the Church." 
The catechism of the Catholic Church recognizes the importance of martyrdom, calling it "the 
"In a sense out ofhis
supreme wit­"In a sense ness given to Christian faith he became out of his 
the truth of a civil rights worker, and Christian 
the faith: it faith he
as a civil rights worker 
means bear­became a ing witness he was killed. " civil rights even unto worker, and death." as a civil
Lawrence Cunningham
A key rights work­
theology professor
asper.t of this er he was 
the ecumenical intent of recog­nizing the martyrs. 
Experts on campus said King is a fitting candidate for mar­tyrdom. 
"[King], beginning in the 1950's, fought passionately for civil rights ... when it was a very dangerous thing to do," said theology professor Lawrence Cunningham. King carried out his work as a 
Christian 
minister, he 
added. 

round of nominations is that not only Catholic mar­tyrs are included, but martyrs of all Christian faiths. King, a Baptist minister, can be included. 
"The witness to Christ borne even to the shedding of blood has become a common inheri­tance of Catholics, Orthodox, Anglicans and Protestants," writes thP pope, emphasizing 
killed," 
Cunningham said, explaining why King's death allows him to be consid­ered for martyrdom. 
Yet martyrdom should not be confused with sainthood, which includes a lengthy and official canonization process. Although some martyrs have also been recognized as saints, 
see KlNG/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, January 21, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN ND/SMC HISTORY 




Let Elian Go 
Six-year-old Elian Gonzalez became the cen­ter of a storm of debate when he was found floating on an inner tubf' Nov. 25 off the coast of Florida. 

Elian's mother died in the journey from Cuba to the Kathleen Cnited States, leaving Lhe 
O'Brien 

question: Should Elian be sent back to Cuba to live 
Assistant

with his father, or should he remain in Florida with Sports Editor 
relatives? 

There should be no ques­tion of what to do. Elian is a little boy who shou.ld be living wiLh his nearest relative and guardian, his father. 
Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, is alive and well -and anxious for Elian's return to his home in Cuba. There is no eviden~c that Elian's father is anything but loving and devot­ed to his son. There are no signs that he ever abused or neglectPd Elian. 
Instead, Elian lies in limbo in Miami, his fate uncertain. 
People on all sides of the argument have spo­ken up with their two cents, all claiming to have J-.:lian's best interests at heart. 
President Bill Clinton said the law should decide. Elian's case is une of the hottest topics on this year's presidential campaign. Congress members on both sides of the aisle are lobbying for Elian. 
Elian's future has become yet another huge thorn in U.S.-Cuba relations. Thousands of Cuban exiles in the U.S. are protesting the Immigration and Naturalization Services deci­sion to send him back to Cuba. In Cuba. mean­while, Castro denounces the U.S. refusal to let Elian return to Cuba, and thousands of Cubans rallied behind Castro. 
INS ruled that Elian return to Cuba bv Jan. 14, a dead line come and gone while·Elian remains in Miami. U.S. Rep. Dan Burton (R­ind.} filed a Congressional subpoena requesting that Elian testify before Congress. Elian's rela­tives in Florida are taking the case to federal court. 
This is a boy who turned 6 years old last month. He doesn't need to testify before Congress. I-le is a little kid who needs to see his dad. 
Where were all of these interested people when a boat full of Haitian refugees was sent back to Haiti a few weeks ago? If it isn't in Elian's best interests to go back to live in a Communist country, why is it best for them to go back to Haiti to live in poverty? 
If the U.S. is going to keep Elian in Florida against his father's wishes, what does that say about parents' rights? Are they nonexistent? 
If Elian, one little boy, doesn't deserve to live in Cuba because he won't have the same opportunities for freedom there. what about the millions of people living in Cuba? All of the people who are so adamant he remain in the 
U.S. don't seem want to "free" the rest of Cuba's citizens from Communism. Is anyone truly thinking of what would bene­fit Elian most? 
This decision shouldn't be based on election­year pulitics or the riff between the U.S. and Cuba. 
It's about a little boy with a father who loves him, a father who wants his son back. Elian lost his mother; why should he now lose his father? 
Let Elian go home. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those uf the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obs<mJer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
New~ Scene Josh Bourgeois Amanda Greco Tim Logan Graphics 
Maribel Morev Joe Mueller Sports Production Noah Amsredrer Kerry Smith Viewpoint Mike Connolly Colleen Gaughrn Lab Tech Angela Campos 

Tlie Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is f'\ibli,hed Monday thro.,gh Fri.Ly except during e,um ;md vacuh1n periods. The-Observer is a member of 1he Associ•«d Press. All repro<i,JCtion rights arc rcs<ervcd. 
Pasquerilla vVest op~ns 
Jan. 15, 1981 

Pasquerillu West opened its doors to 160 women this week 19 years ago. The new l'cmale residence hall virtually eliminated the shortage ol' wumen ·s housing on campus. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

SUFR sits in at Student Affairs 
Jan. 22, 1991 The Students United for Hespect (SUFR) protested on Martin Luther King Day at the oflice of the vice president for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara. SUFR demandP-d more staff for the Otlke of Multicultural Student Affairs. increase in hiring of minority faculty and a University policy prohibiting racial harrassment. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Citizens' group charges IU with illegal dumping 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
ln the wake of Monday's cancella­tion of the proposed Jack Nicklaus-sig­nature championship golf course on the Indiana University's Griffy Lake watershed, a group of Bloomington citizens allege that mistreatment of the University-owned land has taken place by IU, including the dumping of waste materials containing PCBs and other hazardous chemicals. 
IU director of Environmental Hnalth and Safety Ted Alexander said Wednesday thP.SC allegations are unclear. stating the University is in full compliance with federal and state reg­ulations. 
Bloomington attorney Mick Harrison delivered a notice of intent to sue JU to the University Counsel office Jan. 12 on behalf of Bloomington residents Greg Moore. Leona Wolfe, Jim Cartnell and unnamed "John and Jane Docs." 


The intendP.d suit would be brought on the grounds that IU allegedly failed to report hazardous and toxic waste dumps and implement timely remedial action. The notice also alleges the University has engaged in the storage and disposal of toxic substances with­out permits and approvals required by law, creating an imminent hazard. 
"We have minimum expectations. and then there are some things that are negotiable," Harrison said. 'The minimum is that the site has to be carefully tested and characterized for what contaminants are present and there has to be cleanup of contami­nants found. Whether we insist on attorney's fees or other damages will be up to my clients. We're waiting for the university response." 
University Counsel Dorothy Frapwell declined to comment u.t press time. Her office said she was preparing a statement. 
Dut Alexander, who worked as assistant commissioner for the Indiana State Department of Health for nine years and has been at IU for more than four years. said IU has been in compliance with standards set by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRCJ and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management {IDEM) for years. 

New Mexico murder trial stalled 
ALBUQUERQUE 
Jury selection in the murder trial of Jesse Avalos, accused of killing New Mexico State University freshman Carly Martinez in January of 1998, has proved to be a slow-moving affair. On Tuesday, trou­ble locating a Mandarin Chinese interpreter for a prospective juror caused Judge Lourdes Martinez of Las Cruces to adjourn the court without completing voir dire on the 86 prospective jurors slated for questioning on Tuesday. After finding the inter­preter, questioning by both sides continued through Wednesday and will pick up again Thursday. One hundred and forty-six Albuquerque residents were summoned to the courtroom Tuesday and Wednesday to be questioned by lawyers in Avalos' case. Avalos is accused of the murder, rape and kid­napping of Carly Martinez, who was last seen alive on Jan. 14, 1998. Her body was found two months later in the deserts west of Las Cruces. One month after that, Avalos and co-defendant Jason Desnoyers were charged with Martinez's murder. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWealher~forecasr for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  .. L  
Friday  ~  19  11  
Saturd~y  28  21  
.,  
iSunday  ~·-30  20  
·:·  ·:·  
Monday  20  
Tuesday  .,, <.4.  29  17  
{_s---,;f'·,·..,.._.,//\-:.../  ,...,,.:.· ·=··  


Q_Q_~p.9Q (t ~ u 
Showers T-starms Ram Fium8s Snow lcB Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V~ AS$0Ciated Prass <JmphicsNat 

Baylor freshman dies in hit-and-run 
WACO. Texas 

Baylor University freshman Malisa Denise Caffey, of Wichita Kan .. was pronounced dead at the scene of a hit-and-run accident at Ninth Street and Bagby Avenue at 10:18 Wednesday night. Sgt. Keith Vaughan of the Waco Police Department told The Lariat that bystanders said a green Ford pickup left the scene immediately after the accident and had not been locat­ed by press time early this morning. The truck was last seen heading westbound on Bagby. Baylor Police Chief Jim Doak said, "We are sickened by this. It now becomes our mission to find the driver of the truck. "A Waco Police officer shared with me that the driver is now public enemy No. 1. It's unconscionable what the driver did. Our officers are out now trying to make an identification on the driver," Doak said. Caffey, who was a Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority pledge, was said to be leaving a mixer with with the Kappa Omega Tau fraternity when she was hit by the truck. The mixer occurred in the front yard of a house near the scene of the accident. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather<" forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 21. 
@"""'cb D . aTI ~ Ga . 0 ·i~ 
High L(IW Show,era Rain T~atorm• Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Va ,4pqeiarsct Pros• 

Friday, January 21, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND Press publishes book celebrating Irish 
Special to The Observer 
Tiu~ University of NotrP Dame Press has published "The Encydopedia of the Irish in America," a unique compendium of Irish­Americana P-dited by Michael Glazier. 
The encyclopedia includes articl!'!s on thP most impor­tant events. themes. and peo­ple in lhe Irish expr~rience nr America. from 1584. when Bir.hard But!P-r, a sailor from Tipp1wary bP-came the first historically dncumcnted Irishman to set foot on American soil. to the present. Its 1,096 double-column pages contain accounts of the Irish communities in each of thc 50 states. more than 500 biographies of Irish­American mrn and women, and morn than 300 illustra­tions. The more than 900 themes and topic:s it covers include literature. religion, immigration, emigration, sports, labor, theater, educa­tirm, medicine and business. 
In one encyclopedia article. entitled "Notre Dame and the Irish," Father James Connelly, historian of the Conregation of Holy Cross. traces the history of the University frnm its founding in 1842, when four of the seven Holy Cross brothers who arrived on the Indiana frontier with Father Edward Sorin wern Irishmen. to 1998, when the University estab­lished the Keough-Notre Dame Study Center in Newman House on St. Stephen's Green in Dublin. According to Connelly, the Irish were "instrumental in the founding of Notre Dame, prominent in its development and conspicuous in its leader­ship." 

Law grad receives Court clerkship 
one she. wanted to work with,
By MARIBEL MOREY 

Justice Clarence Thomas. 
News Writer 

"[This opportunity] is like a gift from God because there are 
Margaret Ryan Collins, a 1995 so many qualified people," said 

Notre Dame Law School gradu­Collins, who graduated first in 

ate, has be@ appointed to a her class. "Ninety percent is 

Supreme Court Clerkship, one of luck and references." 

the most pres- Clerks assist  
tigious honors  judges  in  
a  recent law  "Ifit weren't for the  culling 
school gradu­ate can aUain. She credits  Notre Dame faculty past, present and new, I  through infor­mation pre­sented in  
the education  wouldn't be clerking for  court.  
she received at Notre Dame  the Supreme Court. "  "I ravel at the fact that  
for  much  of  you can reach  
her success.  Margaret Ryan Collins  at the truth," 
"If it weren't for the Notre  Supreme Court clerk  said Collins. She looks for- 
Dame faculty  ward to focus­ 

past, present and new," she 

ing purely on legal issues as a 
said, "I wouldn't be clerking for 

clerk; at her current firm,
the Supreme Court." Collins focuses on one side of 

Cnllins applied -with refer­the story -the side she repre­ences from three Notre Dame 

sents on behalf of her 
law facultv -to each of the 

Washington law firm. nine Supr~me Court Justices. -After graduating from Knox She considers herself lucky to 
College in lllinois in 1985,
have gotten a response from the Collins served as a military com­

munications officer with the Marine Corps, and later joined the Corps' law education pro­gram. This program allowed Collins to choose any law school she wished; she picked Notre Dame. 
"They really believe that to be a lawyer, you need to be a good person, too," she said. "The Supreme Court is interested in people with excellent characters who have the ability to do work and discern from briefs and find the truth." 
At law school. Collins met her husband, who graduated second in their class, and the couple wed before Collins traveled to Japan with the Marines. 
Not wanting to make the mili­tary a full-time career, she returned to Washington. D.C.. tn be with her husband and prac­tice private law. 
After working for a firm in the nation's capital for one year. Collins now will move to the Supreme Court and take a 66 percent pay cut for the opportu­nity. 

Prof gets 'indecent' in new book 
tures in the Gilded Age -but ism and contemporary affairs.
. American studies 

devotes most of his attention to Schmuhl is the author or edi­
chair examines contemporary affairs, including tor of nine books, including 
excesses in U.S. shock entertainment, the "Demanding Democracy" 
decline of privacy, and exces­(1994), "Statecraft and
history 

sive media coverage of stories Stagecraft: American Political . s4,SO All Shows Before 6 pm • Advance Ticket Sales Available :J 6. ; such as the O.J. Simpson trial Life in the Age of Personality" 
and the Clinton/Lewinsky scan­(1990 and 1992). and
Special to The ObserverAII Times for Dec. 3-5 Only Saturday & Sunday \.latinees in Brackets 

dal. "Wounded Titans: American 
• End of the Affair (R) Digital Magnolia (R) Digital : "In 'Indecent Liberties,' Presidents and the Perils of
A new book by Robert

fl2:J0 2::'iOJ .'i:20 7:50 10:1 :'i I12:00] -t:l.'i 8:00 
Robert Schmuhl wisely suggests Power (1996)_ His edited vol­
· 
Pl,1v It to the Hone (R) Digital Anv Given Sundav (R) Digital ; Schmuhl, professor and chair of that we remember the value of ume. "The Responsibilities of
[1:10] 4:(X) 7:{XJ IO:rn> [12:25] HO 7:05 10:25 American studies at the Angela's A.~hcs (R) Digiial Galaxy Quest (PG) Di~>ital ; moderation," says E.J. Dionne, Journalism," has been pub­
University of Notre Dame. takes 

[12:40] 3:.'i<J 7:10 10:20 l12:15 2:4.'iJ 5:05 7:30 9:5.'i Jr., syndicated columnist and lished in four foreign editions
a critical look at the American

Down lo You (PG-13) Digital Bicentennial Man (PG) Digital ; 
senior fellow at the Brookings and translations since appear­
penchant for going to extremes

[ I I :50 2:(XI] --1:20 650 9:20 9:40 
Institution. "But. happily, he is ing in 1984.
The Hurricane (R) Digi1al Stuart Little (PG) Digital ·_ in the arts, popular culture, pol­
[ 12:20 ~30] 6:--15 9:50 !I I Si 2: 10] 4:J0 6:40 9:00 itics and social movements. immoderate when it comes to Schmuhl's academic articles Il:<Xl] 4:10 7:15 10:20 The Green Mile (R) Digital ; offering us intelligence, sharp and reviews have been pub­
Published by Notre Dame

Next Friday (R) Di~>i1al !12:10) 4:25 8'.10 
insight, and independence of lished in such journals as
Press, "Indecent Liberties" is a

[I l:--15 :Ui5] -!:-!O 7:45 I0:0'i Toy Story 2 (G) Digital ; 
mind. At a time when so much Critical Studies in Mass
Girl lntem1ptcd (R) Digit.~ [ 11 :40 2:20] 4:50 7:20 _ series of eight essays in which -[ I IJO 2: L'i] 5:m 7:--10 10:30 Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo (R) Digital ; Schmuhl analyzes the dangers commentary lives on polariza­Communication, The Review of 
_ Supernova {l-'G-13) Digital l12:3.'i 2:55] 5:30 8:05 I0:35 tion and exaggeration, Schmuhl Politics, Stvle, National Forum,
and consequences of carrying

[I2:-t.'i 3:(Xll :i:lll 7::'i5 10:05 
is a national treasure. This book and Journ.alism Quarterly. He
fundamental American free­

--------doms too far. He argues for is a trove of some of his best also has worked extensively in thinking and writing." journalism. writing features,
Y $1 00 All Shows Before 6 pm seeking public and private equi­

SCOTTSDALE 6 ONL • Evel)'one • Everyday 
A member of the Notre Dame columns and reviews for dozens
librium bemuse to do otherwise

Scottsdale Mall• 299-6063 $1.50 All Ev~ning Shows ;16. results in "indecent liberties" l'ac:ulty since 1980, Schmuhl has of newspapers and magazines. Pokemon (G) served since 1997 as director of including The Washington Post.
Hm1~c on Haunted Hill (RJ that endanger the nation's [2:tXI] 4:50 7:-10 9:-tO [ I :<Xl] --1:t)(l 6:45 9:(XJ future. lhe University's John W. USA Today. Sports Illustrated, 
--llc,t !\fan !RI Three Kings (R) Gallivan Program in Journalism, Editor and Publisher, The
Schmuhl considers historical
[1:20] 4:30 7:30 10:10

[UO] 4:10 7:iXl l(l:{)(l Ethics & Democracy. His teach­Chicago Tribune, The
examples -such as the hunt­
Cra:,;y in Alabama (R)

·_ Douhk .JcoJ>ardy (RJ ing and research focus on Philadelphia Inquirer and The
ing of buffalo in the West,
fI'.50J 4:40 7:20 9:50

-11:40] -t:20 7:10 10:05 American political life, journal-Boston Globe. 
Prohibition, and business ven-

SERVICE. LEADERSHIP. FELLOWSHIP. 

Univ. Laundry annmg at the Campus Shoppes
J 
1813 South Bend Ave. 
Monda Dollar Day Tanning Tuesda 
Senior Day Free Drying For Senior Citizens 

JOIN CIRCLE K 
Wednesda Free Hot Dogs 
Thursda Students Free drying 

DO SERIVCE, MEET FRIENDS, HAVE FUN!! 
SUNDAY, JAN 23 7PM LIBRARY AUD. 
w/College ID 
.45¢ Drop Off All Month
HTTP://WWW.ND.EDU/~CIRCLEK 
Till Feb. 29th 





Friday, January 21, 2000

The Obsm,er . CAMPUS NEWS 
page 4 
rather a general thanksgiving for all martyrs, Maj said. 

1-APS selects chem prof as fellow
King 
Many people on campus 

continued from page 1 
inclusion on the list of 20th century martyrs does not sug­gest the veneration accordRd to saints. 
•'This is simply public recog­nition on the part of the Church that these Christians died for the faith in the 20th century," said Cunningham 
King may not be honored by name at the ceremony, howev­er. 
father Jozef Maj, a member of the commission planning the event, told the Catholic News Service that the Vatican will not publicly list the thou­sands of nominees, because it could give rise to misunder­standing or even division. 
Although the Vatican is col­lecting names. current plans for the ceremony do not include naming individuals but applaud King's nomination. 
"It's well-deserved," said Iris Outlaw, director of the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, noting that the recog­nition should be an inspiration to Notre Dame students. 
.Jay Caponigro, a member of the l'niversitv's Martin Luther King. .Jr.· Celebration Committee, also praised the nomination. 
'Tm very enthusetl ... that our Catholic bishops are able to see the valuable contribu­tions that someone like Martin Luther King bas made tu not only his church, but also the largBr church community," he said. 
Oullaw. however, cautioned that although King's nomina­tion is an honor, his work for civil rights is still unfinished. 
"We need someone to follow 
in his footsteps," she said. 
TUESDAYS

MONDAYS 
Special to The Observer 

Anthony Trozzolo, Huisking professor emeritus of chem­istry at the University was elected a follow of the lnter­Ameri can Photochemical Society [1-APSJ. 
Trozzolo was recognized For his lifetime achievements in organic photochemistry and his leaclership in the photo­chemical field, acrnrriing to Predcrick Lewis, vice presi­dent of the 1-APS. 
llis nomination noted his 
pioneering studies of photo­
chemically generated reactive 
intermediates are substances 
that exist, 1,ometimcs f1ecting­
lv, between what the chemist 
starts with and his end prod­
uct. 

The creation and detection 
of reactive intermediates are 
Trozzolo's chief re1>earch 
interests. His methodology 
often involves low-tempera­
turc or solid-state photochem­istry. 
Trozzolo has published 90 articles on this subject and has been issued 31 U.S. and foreign patents. 
Additonally. he has dflliv­cred more than :mo invited lectures at universities, international meetings, American Chemical Society sympsia and industrial labora­tories. 
Trozzolo is un elcctccl f'ellow of the New York Academy or Sciences, tho American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Institute of Chemists. 
He also is an active member 
of the American Chemical 
Society and has served as 
associate editor of the Journal 
of the American Chemical 
Society, editor of Chemical 
Reviews and a member of the 
editorial advisory board of 
Ar,ounts of Chemical 
Research. 
Trozzolo was also chair of the first Gordon Research Conference on Organic Photochemistrv in 1964 and has attended every meeting of that conference since. 
While at Notre DamP, Trozzolo developed and taught a new coursr. for non­science majors titled, "Sneing the Light in Science," in which the many facets of light in everyday phenomena was the focus. He served as assistant dean of the College of Science from 199:3-98. 
Trozzolo received his bache­lor's degree in drnmistry from the Illinois Institute of Technology and his mastflr's and doctorate from the University of Chicago. Trozzolo was also a member of the technical staff at the Bell Telephone Laboratories in Murray Hill, N.J., until he joined the Notre Dame faculty as Huisking professor in 1975. 
1(25 -3(7

1/24--3/6 
7 -8: 15p11J11 12:10~12:so
YOGA $20

$25 
VN£SDAYS 
rnu'RSVAYS 1(26-3(8 1(27-3/9 12:10-12:50 7-8:15pYV1.1 $25
$20 
AI CffI 'R~ 

WEVN'ESVAYS 
Tyau'I/. 

1(26-3(8 . PRIVAYS 
5._30-6._25 <!J'R l(ZB, 2('-I-, 11 6-45 -?.'-I-0 ~ 3:15-4:15 
$25 $10 
Registration begins Friday, January 21, 7:30am in the RSRC. Call 1-6100 with uestions. 


Spring Break Seminars 
March 11-19, 2000 Experiential/Service Leaming 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 10 sites in the Appalachian region 


-> An ND tradition of service-learning 
CIVIL RIGHTS & SOCIAL CHANGE SEMINAR 
-> Travel to key civil rights sites in the South (e.g., the King Center, the Nat. Civil Rights Inst.) 


-> Learn from leaders who were instrumental in civil rights legislation and development 
-> A new and unique Seminar opportunity 
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
-> Live for a week in community with persons 
0 

with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
-> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families 


WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Jubilee Justice 
-> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -> Service and political awareness opportunities 


All seminars offer one academic credit 

csc 
C£NT£R ~OR 

Applications Available Now at the CSC SOCIAL 
CONCERNS

A p p 1i c a t i o n s D u e: Ja n. 27, 2000 

. 
.
orld 
•I 

i-:riday, January 21, 2000 COMPIUm FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Canada denies bail for terrorist 
MONTREAL 

/\n Algerian man facing U.S. terrorism drnrges was dnnind bail in Canada on Thursday after polirn tr.stifie<l that he coordi­natPd plans to snrngglc explosivP.s into thP. Uniu,d States. allegedly lo be used in an attark. Tlw ruling will keep Mokhtar llaouri, whose last nanrn was pwviously given as llaouari. in custody until an extradition hear­ing March 15 ...:l'he proof that has been revnalcd satisfies me that he belongs to a ter­rorist organization.·· said Quebec Superior Court Judge Jean-Guy Boilard. Boilard said 1laouri, whose claim !"or refugee status was ref"us,'d bv Canadian authorities in 1994 and 11)9:i. wa~ only in Canada because of a mora­torium on deportations to Algeria. lie has a history in Canada of' fabricating official docu­nwnts and using fake or stolen credit r.ards. Boilard said. 
Bush addresses abortion 
PELIA. Iowa 

GPorge W. Bush said Thursday that if tlw child or a rnlativc or l'riend wrrr raped and askr:d him aboul abortion. he would hope to rPspond with sympathy and would advise that "H's up to her" wlwther to havr th1i opc1ration. However. the Texas governor and ll.Ppublican presidential front-runner also said that the Supreme Court de:cision legalizing abortion "was a reach." And 
. hP said he "would not be inclined to accept" gov­e:rnnwnt approval of abortion-inducing medi­cines such as the Fnmch pill HU-486. "It's abor­tion." Bush told n~portPrs during a news confer­cmce at Central College that featured a string of abortion qU(eStions. Bush l'an1d criticism on the issue' f'rom rival candidat,~ Steve Forbes. who said abortions can lnavn womnn crnotionallv sc,ttTed and ar.rus<~d Bush ol' not doing enough to oppose tlrn operations. 
Smuggling creates scandal 
BEIJING 

A widi,-ranging investigation into smug­gling in a southeastern Chinese port city has become modern China's biggest corruption scandal. creating concern in the communist lnadnship and implicating the wife of a senior leader. party officials said. Dozens of officials have come under suspicion in the smuggling or billions of dollars worth of oil. cars. cigarettes and other goods through Xiamcn. and the case has become a test of President Jiang Zr,min·s resolve to fight gov­r,rnnrnnt corruption. Over 700 investigators -from police to auditors -have occupied two hotels in Xiamen for months. And a member of the ruling Communist Party's innr,r circlP. is ovt1rseeing the investigation. rnviewing daily reports sent from Xiamen to Beijing, tlw officials said. Chinese leaders have reason to be concerned. 
¦khiiN1i2&1-f4i
Dow 
AMEx: 
899.61 

]ONES +9o4 
Nasdaq:

-138.06 

-W!9.5t +38.22 
NYSE 
640.51 
-4.86 


s~~P 500: Composite 1445.57 \"olumc:11351.57 -1033 1,057,785,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPMiX trt'.:UR .,,, CHANGE S CfflN91 ee;rcr 
~M~UCA Or1LI'NE AOL -1. 26 -0.8150 42. "331 
LE:C,.TO SYSTEMS r.GTO -U.52 -.23.8750 3!L681 1..UC!NT TBCH INC LU ....2.01 +1.0625 37.174 INTEL CORP IN'l'C -4.H _, . .U.25 1S. 001
,.

MCI WOfl,~OH !<COM -3.73 -l.9825 32.222 .SIJN MIC'ROSYS1'F.M SUNW •4. 37 +3. 6:l25 10.su MI<"R<:lsYs'l'EM MSFT -0.93 -1. 0000 29.114 MIC'ROSOFT CORP OEL,t, +2.94 Tl, 2500 27 .'528 DEI..L COMPU'rEit OitC'L +3. 72 .. ,. Lil:50 J.7 .26l COMPAQ CQMPtTTER. CPQ +Q • .22 -tO, 0650 22. 5H 
U.S. grants visas for grandmas 
As,odateJ Press 
WASHINGTON 
The custody fight over Elian Gonzalez took a new turn Thursdav as thr. grandmothers of' the 6-yeai­old obtained visas to travel to the United States to make their case that the bov should bf' returned to his falher in Cuba. 
The U.S. diplomatic mission in Cuba issued visas to the two women Thursday afternoon as a group from the National Council of Churches was flying to Ilavana from New York to meet with them and wilh Cuban government o!lir.ials. 
They were expected to t1y to New York on Friday. apparently escorted by thB church group. Ar.cording to congressional sources, the women hope to return with the boy to Cuba. An aide to Rep. Charles Rangel. D­
N.Y.. said the congressman will meet with the wnmen nn the arrival in New York on Friday or elsewhere in the city later on. 
Rangel has been a strong propo­nent of allowing the boy to return to Cuba has offered to accompany the boy back. 
The congressional sources said New York was chosen as a destina­tion because the welcome there would be far friendlier than in Miami. where Elian has been living with relatives for almost two months and where sentiment for his remain­ing in the United States is strong. 
Elian survived a shipwreck in late November. The boat on which he was heading for south Florida cap­sized. killing his mother and nine other would-be refugees. 
The United States refused to return Elian immediately to Cuba, aggravat­ing the already hostile relationship between Washington and Havana. 
Roger Bernstein, one of the lawyers retained by Elian's Miami relatives, said the family is pleased about the grandmothers' visit and hopes Elian will get to see them. 
He said their visit will not affect the proceedings in federal court to determine Elian 's fate. 
Attorneys for Lazaro Gonzalez, the boy's great-uncle, went to federal court Wednesday to challenge the lmmigration and Naturalization Service's ruling that Elian must to be returned to his father in Cuba. 
The legal team filed a lawsuit accusing the INS of violating Elian's due-process rights and asked the judge to prevent the agency from returning the boy before it gives him an asylum hearing. 
"It is about protecting Elian's civil and constitutional rights. the same 
POLAND 

Officials expel 9 Russian diplomats 
Associated Press 
WARSAW 
Poland ordered the expulsion of nine Russian diplomats Thnrsday for alleged spying. Moscow protested the move and said it was damaging to rnlations between the formf'r commu­nist allies. 
A Polish government communique said Russian Ambassador SPrgei Razov had been called to the Foreign Ministrv and told that each of the nine. w-ho were not identified. had been declared persona non grata and would have to leave the country. 
Polish Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek. during a visit to Portugal, said that the decision was ·•a question of secu­rity." He declined to say whether any NATO secrets were involved. 

"We have documented very well the espionage activities of the people whosR expulsion we demanded." Buzek told reporters at a news con­ference in Lisbon. "This situation obviously is very difficult but ... the incidents required Poland to take action." 
The chief governm0nt spokesman, Krzystof Luft. said earliflr that the evidrmcR collected by Poland's coun­terintelligence agency involved "active espionage activities against Poland's interest in 1999." 
In Moscow. the Hussian Foreign Ministry said thR Poles did not "and cannot present" any proof of the charges, and said the expulsions would "seriously complicate Russian­Polic;h relations." 
"The Russian side cannot let such an openly unfriendly and provocative action pass by," the statement said. "Appropriate actions in response are unavoidable." suggesting Polish diplomats would be ordered from Moscow. 
Buzek warned "this type of situa­tion is not good for cooperation between our two countries." 
Poland, a former member of the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact, joined the West's NATO military alliance March along with Hungary and the Czech Republic. Russia staunchly opposed the move. 


as if he was any other child," said Spencer Eig, a lawyer for the great­uncle. 
Many legal experts insist that Elian's US relatives have no legal 
Elian's face peers from the front page of every newspaper, hundreds of billboards and posters, hundreds of thousands of T-shirts. 
Every night experts debate the 

standing because their rights do not trump those.of his "It is about protecting 
father, his closest 
Elian's civil and
relative. In Cuba, from constitutional rights, the 
the moment people same as ifhe was any 
turn on their 
other child." 
radios in the morn­ing until they switch off their Spencer Eig televisions at night, 
Gonzalez family attorney
Cubans are bom­barded with news and comment 
boy's future for hours on live prime­time television broadcasts, often with President Fidel Castro present. Clips of those shows are repeated throughout the fol­lowing day. 
For the commu­nist state's formida­ble propaganda machine, the boy has been a gift, the 

about Elian Gonzalez and demands flashpoint for one of the major that the 6-year-old be returned from national crusades of recent Cuban the United States. history. 
---w--------­
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 21, 2000 
Sibs 
continued from page 1 
disgruntled students. Even though only 10 to 15 children were staying in the dorm,s it effect 150 to 350 students whose socia.l life for an entire weekend was impacted." 
Simple demographics are a factor in fewer Yisits. Cassidy said. 
"Another reason attendance was going down is because of a national trend In the decreasing size of fam iiies," he said. "Most households only consist of two children now and even if there are more, these children are often very close in age. Thus, the likelihood that a sophomore student would have an eligible sibling in the right age [mid­dle school] is very small." 
Cassidy also noted that Notre Dame's national nature and noted that nut all siblings had an equal opportunity to attend the weekend. Many schools with successful pro­grams, he said, are state insti­tutions where the majority of students live in the region. Notre Dame students come from all over the United States and even other coun­tries. and travel to visit can be more expensive. 
A final factor in the decision was liability and the possibili­ty of underage drinking. Cassidy. however. stressed this reason was no more important than the others. 
"We have had some prob­lems in the past with older siblings consuming alcohol. however the reality is those 
Please Recycle The Observer. 

All Shows Bclorc t, PM $4.IKI $4,(\(\ S\udcnts/Chi1drcn/Scni~w~ $t,.511 Adult Stereo Surround Sound in c1ll Theatres 

Deuce Bigalow  R  
7 45  10:05  
Down to You  PG~13  
1:00 3:lO 5:'20 7:40 10:00  
Galaxy Quest  PG  
2:45 5.05 7:40 10:25  
Girl Interrupted  A  
1 :10 4:15 7:15 10:05  
Magnolia  R  
1 :00 4:50 9:10  
Neit Friday  R  
1:15 3·30 5:45 8:00 10:15  
Play ft ro The Booe  R  
1:25 4:05 7:10 10:10  
Snow Falling On Cedars  PG-13  
1:05 4:\0 7:05 9:55  
Stuart Little  PG  
2:30 5:00 7:35 9:50  

Supernova PG~13 12:55 3:05 5:10 7:25 9'40 
The Cider House Rulel PG--13 
1:20 4:15 7:10 10:15 
The Gl'ffen Mile R 
3;4fi 7:30 
The Hurricane R 
12:•s J:ss 1:00 10: 10 Tl1<1 Talented Mr. Ripley R 12:50 4:00 7:20 10:20 
Toy Story 2 G 
2:35 5:05 

1u1m; 1mi; cm, IC.!!! D!.1 ~171~\l,1 11\m ;:.m eANC!(slr A{(U,1$U • NC Ml!fl • NO ll,,U$A\1RI 
students can come to campus any given time and we face  However, it was a risk we wern willing to take," said  and keep the weekend. "We were informed that in  mit the proposal before fall break," Rossmann said.  
the same problp,ms," he said. "The decision was made because of problems all  Peter Rossmann, sophomore class prnsident. "Rather than saying fine, the weekend can  order to have the weekend we would have to get the rectors' and rectresses' support,"  Their proposal combined Cassidy's concerns and the recommendations of rectors  
across t.he board. One was not the deciding factor. There was a wide range, and none of the  be canceled, we did what we folt our class wanted and decided to  Rossmann said. Hectors' opinions varied, Rossmann  anrl included a stricter regis­tration process, more dorm­centered activities and new  
problems could be easily solved." All these reasons led to Cassidy to question whether to host the weekend. Last  try for the weekend." "Basically. Joe Cassidy told us that  "The decision was made because ofproblems all across the board. One  said. "One rector stopped me right there and said he  alternatives to keep siblings busy at night. The proposal was given to Cassidy shortly before fall break, and on DP-c. 1 the offi­ 
March he met with the newly elected sophomore class offi­cers and informed them that Sophomore Siblings Weekenrl would most likely be canceled. "Rasically from the begin­ning of their term last year,  we had two options," s a i d Brendan Harris, cu­chair of Sophomore  was not the deciding factor. " Joe Cassidy director of student activities  thought it was a great program and that nothing should be clianged," he said. "Some  cers wern informed that the weekend had hePn canceled. "Cassidy congratulated us immediately on a great effort and we knew that the week­end was most likely can­celed," said Kathll'en  
the decision was made to can­cel the Pvent." Cassidv said. "[  L i r e Committee.  rectors did have valid  O'Connor, sophomore class secretary.  
warned them that it ~vould be an uphill battle, but they still  "Either we could appeal the decision or leave it right  reservations. But at the same time we felt these concerns  Still, officers are puzzled by the move.  
wanted to submit a proposal."  there. By fighting we knew we  could be alleviated in  a  new  "The decision would be easi­ 
Class officers hoped their request for a Siblings  were taking on responsibility on ourselves. llowever. we felt  proposal." During summer break, the  er to accept if there was a major incident that caused the  
Weekend would be accepted  the program  was worthwhile  class officers worked  on their  cancellation." Hossman said.  
despite the odds against them.  and we wern not willing to let  alternative.  "It makes it harder to under­ 
"We knew it was going to be an uphill battle and that the situation did not look positive.  go that easy." After that meeting, I.he class officers began a process to try  "When we returned this fall, we had a meeting with Cassidy and were told to sub- stand and raises the question why did it have to be our class?"  


Abortion rights activists promised us a world of equality. reduced poverty. A world where every child would be wanted, Instead, child abuse has escalated, and rather than shared responsibility for children, even more of the burden has shifted to women. 
Question abortion.SM 
No law can make the wrong choice right. 

....2:MINISTS FOR LIFE 
-,:E OF AMERICA 
733 15th Street, NW · Suite 1100 · Washington, DC 20005 · (202) 737-FFLA · http://www.serve.com/fem4life 
C1'M.~rutabutaal~.Mlriola~ 
Friday, J.muary 21, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 7 

Sophomores react to cancellation 
By LAURA ROMPF Assist.Ill! News Ediwr 
Many second-year students Pxpn'ss«-d disappointmPnt in !h1' ranc1dlation of' the Sophornorn Siblings Wnektind. lwrausP of both llrn nnd of' a long-standing trudilion and the lost opportunity to sham till' collPgi") ,,xperir.ncc with voungor siblings. · "llt>rr' at a srhool likP. Notrn IJanw whcro tlrnn, is so much focus 1111 J'amilv. wlrnre lhnro an• so many lngm:y students. it was rl'.,tlly disuppoi11ti11g that an c•V<\lll which fnn1sPcl on l'amily nwmlwrs could not nJ11­limw." said l'dcr Hossmunn. sophomorP c:lass pn~sidPnt. "I am disappoint1•d as I am sure tlw C\Jllir;, sophom1ir1i dass is." 
Otlwr stmknts agnwd. 
"I am fruslratnd lrncausc I was lookin~ l'orwurd to having my youngt'r brollwr visit 1,am­pus that Wi'PkP1Hl and get a lwlt;-r unrlc>rslanding of' cam­pus lil'1'," said i\lnlly Matun<), a 
Badin I!all soplwrnorP. 
So111P \Vl'l'I' 1·onc<'r!JPcl lwr.aUSI' or 1111' i'Il(l or tht• lra­d i tio n and W!'l'ti u n satislfod wilh tlw rPasoning bl'hind the decision. cers were still trying to work 
"I didn't sec the reason why out an alternative, could have it was canceled," said l\1elissa created false expP.ctations, Hauch. a McGlinn Hall sopho­according tu.Joe Cassidy, direc­morn. '"I huve one brother and tor of Student Activities, one sistPr and thev both WPrC "Students were not informed planning on altend°ing. I'm dis­that there was a possibility of appointed because it is a long­canceling the weekend simply timo '.'Jotre Dame tradition and because this is the normal it doesn't seem fair to be can­decision making process," he 
celed this year." 
M an y 
"Here at a school like Notre 
studPnts 
Dame where there is so much
W<'l'I' 
u p s C l focus on family. ... it was with thn 
disappointing that an event
l'acl that 
which.focused on family mem­
t h " y 
wnr<' not bers could not continue." inf'orm<id so 1J n c r 
Peter Rossmann
that thn W<;eknnd sophomore class president 
might be canceled. 
"I was disappointed and upsnt in the way the situation was handled, having a nl'WSll!tlPr go out during finals wnck when nveryone was busy with othnr things," said Jim Vavri('Pk. Sorin II all Sophomon~. 
But informing students carli­nr, whil<' sophomore class offi-


Open to all majors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
said. "It was not a deci­sion that would he make by a popu­lar con­sensus. We did collect informa­tion from t h e sopho­m u r e 
class and were willing to look at alternatives. We did not want the information to get out simply b(~causP. we did not want to raise expectations that somehow this decision would be determined by popularity." 
Overall, sophomores seem disappointed because they will not be able to share the expe­rience of the weekend with their younger siblings. 
"Sophomore Sibs Weekend was something that I got to participate in and thus wanted my younger brother to enjoy," said Carolyn D'Amore, a Badin Hall sophomore. "It made me appreriate Notre Dame more and find a respect for my older brother who attended this Universitv." 
D'Amo;•c's younger brother also voiced some frustration. 
"I am sad because it would have been fun to spend the time with mv sister because she's cooler than my parents," said 12-vear-old Daniel D'Amore. • 

Clinton urges Arafat to proceed with talks 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton tried Thursday to pick up the pace of slow-moving talks between Israel and the Palestinians. telling the 
two sides "no one can get every• thing" in an accord. 
Calling for com­promise 

as he sat Arafat down with Yasser Arafat in the Oval 
Office. Clinton said he would be disappointed if a settlement were not reached. "We have the leaders who can do it," he said, offoring again to do whatever he could to resolve 
their differences. 
Arafat agreed there would be difficulties "along the way,'' but he said negotiations would dnal with them. He declined to say whether he was willing to accept less than all his demands. 
With evident satisfaction, Arafat said he had reached agreement with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak for Israel to transfer of another 6.1 per­cent of the West Bank to the Palestinian Authority. 
"Within two weeks, we will receive the 6 percent," Arafat said. "This is something Prime Minister Barak and I agreed to 24 or 48 hours before arriv­ing." 
Arafat and Barak met out­side Tel Aviv on Monday to implement Israel's commit­ment to turn over the territory under a U.S.-brokered agree­ment between the two leaders in September. 
It was not clear from Arafat's remark whether the two sides had resolved exactly what land Israel would sur­render. 
After the meeting with Clinton, the Palestinian leader said he had asked for Clinton's help to assure successful negotiations. "It was a very fruitful and productive and important meeting," Arafat said. 
With Clinton's support. Barak and Arafat last year set Feb. 13 as the deadline for resolving their disputes over Palestinian statehood aspira­tions and the futurn of .Jerusalem, at least to the extent that Israel and the Palestinian Authority could complete a framework accord. 
A f'inal settlement, which also would deal with rel'ugees and other issues, is due in the fall. 
Clinton is trying to juggle slow-moving negotiations on the Israeli-Palestinian front with sidetracked peace talks between Israel and Syria. 
State Department spokesman James Rubin said Syrian officials would come to Washington next week, to be followed by Israeli experts, in an effort to deal with some of the nagging issues on that track. 
Direct Israel-Syria talks were set to resume Wednesday at Shepherdstown, W.Va., but they were suspend­ed indefinitely. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and other U.S. officials have said each side wanted its demands given immediate priority. 
Clinton said Wednesday he would take on the task of nudging Syria and Israel along. 


We realize we don1t have to waste your time explaining the virtues of the Internet. Let's just soy that at VarsityBooks.com we've made the most of it. Not only can you save up to 40% on your textbooks, but you'll also receive them in just one to three business days. All on a Web site that's completely reliable and secure. What more do you need to know? 
Savings ofl distributor's suggested price. Books delivered in no more than three business days. Some restrictions apply. See site for details. 
sAvE up To 40% oN TExTsooKs. 

(~/ VarsityBooks.com 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 21, 2000 
Poll: Bush closes in on Democrats' issues 
. Bipartisan poll states that Democrats address voters' issues 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Democrats have the advan­tage on many issues the \'0ters say are top priorities -such as education, health care and Social Security, says a new bipartisan poll that also shows that edge being threatened by Republican George VI/. Bush's moderate message and overall popularity. 
"Democrats have to watch that Republicans don't steal our issues," said Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster who conducted the bipartisan Voter .com Battleground Survey with GOP pollster Ed Goeas. It was sponsored by the Internet political site. 
Another poll released Wednesday by the Pew Res1:rnrch Centttr for the People & the Prnss found that Vici' President AJ Gore is starting to redefine himself with the pub­lic as a moderate. while his Democratic opponent Bill has dampened the impact of his 59 percent job approval rating in the nationwide sur­vey, Goeas said. 
Things were different for the GOP front-runner, with Bush viewed favorably by 62 per­cent of those polled and unfa­vorably by 29 percent. 
Gore was viewed favorably by 47 percent and unfavorably by 43 percent. 
"Gorn is doing l'airly well with Democrats [with three­fourths viewing him favor­ably]," Goe as said. "That's basically all he's gelting, the 
Democratif: base." 
He said Republicans can benefit from Bush's emer­gence as a popular leader who can unite the Republican Party and help define their agenda, and as one who farf"s well with the public on many issues, including topics Democrats are usually favored on 1.ike educa­tion and Social Security. 
"Republicans have gone for seven years without a spokesman," Goeas said, not­ing that 1996 GOP presidential nominee Bob Dole was unable to play that role effectively because he was so battered in the early primaries. 
The poll 
also focused 

Bradley is "Democrats have to on Hispanics now viewed and found
watch that Republicans

as more lib­that the
don't steal our issues_"

eral. group, which T h e .traditionally Battleground 
Celinda Lake has leaned Poll found Democratic,
Democratic pollster

voters fairly satisfied with the direction of the country, with half saying it's headed in the right direction, and Democrats and Republicans facing each other on a rela­tively level playing field. 
The poll suggested the ten­sion between the roaring economy and anxiety about the nation's moral values con­tinues to be a defining theme of the campaign. 
"The country has moved from things are moving in the wrong direction six months ago, to things are moving in the right direction," said Lake, looking for bright spots for Democrats. "The concern about declining morality and values is there, but it's one of many issues and doesn't domi­nate the agenda like it did last June." 
She noted Democrats don't compete well with Republicans on moral and family values issues, especially in the wake of the Monica Lewinsky scan­dal. 
Public concern over 

President Clinton's personal 
behavior -66 percent disap­
provcd of him personally ­
favored 
Bush by 13 points against Gore -51 per­cent to 38 percent. the same margin between the two men overall. 
While Bush continues his substantial advantage over Gore on most issues and with potential voters in every region of the country, Lake cautioned that "the presiden­tial race is far from over." 
"We'll see a fundamental change in the dynamic once Gore becomes the Democratic nominee," said Lake. who has advised the vice president's campaign. And she noted that Democrats have fewer open seats in the House of Representatives, which is an advantage in a pro-incumbent environment. 
The Battleground Poll of 1,000 likely voters was taken Jan. 3-5 and has an error margin of plus or minus 3 per­centage points. 
And Gore may be starting the process of redefining him­seIf now that the public is beginning to pay attention, according to the Pew poll of 1,091 adults taken Wednesday through Sunday. 

Kerrey to relinquish seat in 2000 
Associated Press 
OMAHA. Neb. 
Senator Bob Kcrrcy, the dis­abled Vietnam veteran who became governor and ran for president, announced Thursday he won't seek re­election this y e a r because he wants to tend to his "spiritual side." 
T h e announce­ment makes Kerrcy the fourth Democratic senator in re-cent mouths to announce his retirement, and marks another setback for party hopes of retaking the Senate. 
"It's a deeply personal deci­sion, hut I feel my spiritual side needs to be filled back up," the 56-ycar-old senator said at a news conference, hi.s two chil­dren, B1rnjamin, 24, and Lindsey, 22, at his side. 
A sometimes maddeningly unprndictable and indewmdent­minded politician during his two terms in the Senate, Kerrey said he has not decided exactly what he plans to do after leaving office. 
"Inside my heart I feel like going back to private life is the best choice for me and my fami­ly." 
Kerrey indicated two weeks ago that he was a candidate for the presidency of New School University in New York City, and on Thursday he said he had not decided whether to accept the position if it were offered. New School officials refused to com­ment. 


And while he said he wants to return to private life, Kerrey would not rule out a return to politics. Kerrey has campaigned for Democratic presidential can­didate Bill Bradley and said he would consider being a candi­date for vice presidrmt if asked. 
"It's not that I'm leaving as a consequence or being unhappy," he said. "Ifs just that insidli my heart I f'eel like going back to private life is the best choice for me and my family." 
Kerrey's seat was considered a safe one in a state that tradi­tionally votes Republican. The GOP holds a 55-45 majority in the Senate. 
In the Senate, Kerrey has blended partisan roles. such as chairman of the Democratic campaign committee, with attempts at forging bipartisan legislation on issues such as overhauling Medicare and Social Security. 
Perhaps his best-known moment in the Senate spotlight came in 1993, when Presid1mt Clinton's economic program was in danger of defeat in the Senate. Kerrey was the last wavering Democrat to announce his vote. He sided with the administration, and the pro­gram passed narrowly. 
"I have said before of Sen. Bob Kerrey that he is always willing to be on the cutting edge of change," Clinton said Thursday. 
"But the change he announces today is a bittersweet one for his family, his colleagues in the United States Senate and his constituents in Nebraska." 
Kerrey served in Vietnam as a member of the elite Navy SEALS and earned the Medal of Ilonor, America's highest military honor, for directing an attack on a Viet Cong unit even after a grenade exploded at his feet. He lost part of his right leg. 
After the war, he built a suc­cessful chain of restaurants and health clubs. 
He was a political unknown in 1982 when he unseaterl Republican Gov. Charles Thone in his tlrst bid for office. Kerrey, who is divorced, made headlines at the time for his relationship with actress Debra Winger, whom he met while she was in Nebraska making the movie "Terms of Endearment." 
DP-spite high approval ratings, Kerrey dropped out of politics after one term as governor to tflach a col\p,ge coursr-in California on the Vietnam War's effect on American society. HP­then returned to politics in 1988, defeating Sen. David Karnes. 
And after only throe years in the Senate, Kerrey announced in 1991 that he wanted to he the Democratic nominee for presi­dent. He dropped out of the race less than a year later. 
"Some of the magic about Senator Kerrey is to expect the unexpected," said Anne Boyle, chairwoman of the Nebraska Democratic Party. 


HOMES FOR RENT 
-Domus Properties has two, five, seven, and eight bedroom houses available 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year 
BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
Notre Dame Hockey vs w. Michigan 
7:00pm Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
Sign up at Friday's game to win Continental Express airline tickets for 2 anywhere in the United States! 

5tllde~,w 
t so pittfir5etfre0 
g 
ColltiOOttUl C!!I
...... 
Men's Baskctbclll 

Saturday, Jan. 22nd 
vs. Pittsburgh 12:00pm Joyce Center 

Friday, January 21, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Bradley com01ents draw fire front Gore 
• Gore says comments insulted Iowans 
Associated Press 
COUI\CII. BLUFFS. Iowa 

i\iming to rill> his own sup­port1'rs to work hardnr, VicP Prt-siuPnt /\] Gnl'I' suggPS(f'd to 
Iowans Thurs<lav that thev should bn insultt•d by Biil 
llrac!lPy's assPssnwnt that tlrn sLatP cau­
rus systr,m "rewards ontrenrhed povver. 
13 rad Icy responded that he w a s "ahsolut.nly 


n O t . Bradley absolutPlv not" showing disn'.Spf:l't to the statc·s '.'vlonday prc:cinr:t cau­
n1s1>s. 
SPparately. BradJr,y. a l'or­nwr Nrw J!'rsrv sc·nator. told S('nior citizPn~ that health earl' rPf'orm is now inevitable bc,rausf' his campaign took "the risk of lnadt>rship" and rnslorPd lhl' issuP lo llw prPsi­dt•ntial agPnda. 
Gon• campaig1wd on Iowa's \\'l'StPrn b11rd1,r. his voic.P thundPring as hP rail1•d against Bradley for spending ..star-ks of moncv" in Iowa and saturating the 1tirwavcs with TY and radio ads only lo s1iPmingly dismiss the' raun1s as an organizational rontPst ttmt favors Gore. 
·'My opponent in this DernocraL.ic contest has come here -lrn's lu,rc today. He came hen~. asked for your vole, asked for your support and now ... he bas cvid,rntly developed a new view of the Iowa caucusfls." Gore told sev­eral hundn~d pPople gathered in a gymnasium at Iowa Western Cr,rnmunity Colleg-e. 
"\.Veil, let mf'. tell you. f'ight­ing for people is what the Iowa caucuses are all about! ... Fighting to save Medirarc. that's not entrenched power, that is fighting for people," Gore shouted. 
Bradley, who trails Gore hen~ even after spending. by the Gore campaign's count. almost twir.o as many days in the state, said in New !Iampshire Wednesday. "I think Iowa is a statA that n~wards entrenched power." 
Gore and his aides, worried about !'omplarenry keeping their supporters home on \ilonday, seized on the remark as a way to provoke their own learn. 
Bradlev is "attacking grass­roots activists who are playing a vrry important role in choosing the next prnsident." said Steve llildcbrand. Gore's Iowa campaign director. "Senator Bradley is doing nothing but firing up our troops to go out and work harder." 
But some union organizers for Gorn doubted the potency of this strategy. 


INFORMATION MEETING: SUNDAY, JANUARY 23, 1:OOPM ROCKNE RM. 21 8 FOR MORE INFO. CALL: BILL ARCHER 1-5443 
RECSPORTS AT 1 -61 00 

Pope plans pilgrimage to Egypt 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
Making the first of his mil· lenninm pilgrimages to the Middle East, Pope John Paul II will visit Egypt next month 
in a three­day trip taking him Lo tht~ vcrv roots o·f Western faith. 
Ile will 

John Paul II 

stop in Cairo a.nd then visit a monastery at. the foot or Mount Sinai on the Feb. 24­26 trip, the Vatican said in announcing the pilgrimage Thursday. 
The trip will come a month before a major pilgrimage to the Holy Land that will include stops in Jordan. Israel and the Palestinian territories. 
The Egypt trip. filled with meetings, services and air travel. will be a test of the stamina of the frail. 79-year­old pope, coming at the start of celebrations in the Vatican's Holy Year and a particularly demanding schedule in the Holy Land. 
The stop at Mount Sinai is one of a series of pilgrimages the pope has planned to make in the new millennium, trips he says are purely for religious reasons and without political significance. 
He had hoped to begin with a stop at what is believed to be the birthplace of the bibli­cal patriarch Abraham in Iraq, but the Vatican dropped the plan after Baghdad said it could not organize the visit. 

Rifts in party concern Trump 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

New York tyr:oon Donald Trump said Thursday be is "deeply concerned" about the increasingly bitter infighting among Heform Party members and may not run for the party's presidential nomination if its leaders can" cease their lire. " 
"ff the party is in the shape it's in now. ! am less inclined to run, Trump told The i\ssodated Prnss. 
"l am sorely tempted to run. I'd really like to make the race, particularly. if the nominees are 'Gush' and 'Bore,"' he added. "I am, however. deeply concerned about growing divisions in the Reform Party. I strongly urge party leaders to sit down and negotiate their differences out." 
The leaders have acknowl­edged that it is in the party's interest to have two marquee names -Trump's and former Hepublican Patrick Buchanan's -competing !'or the presiden­tial nomination. Buchanan, campaigning across the country to get on the ballot in 29 states, did not return a call requesting comment. 
Now. those same party lead­ers are involved in factional warfare that broadened this week from a battle over the location of the party" nominat­ing convention into a formal effort to oust National Chairman Jack Gargan during an unusual meeting of the par• ty's 150-membor national com­mittee Feb. 12 in Nashville, Tenn. Gargan's allies, mean­while, are trying to remove their opponents from the execu­tive committee he chairs. 
"Constant bickering and party infighting has brought our Reform Party to the brink of internal destruction," Michael Farris, chairman of the party's Presidential Nomination Committee. wrote in an open e­
mail dated Jan. 15 to party mem­bers. In Nashville, he said, he will call for Gargan's removal, and he will resign if the motion fails. 
The vote will be "a moment that decides 
"I am sorely tempted to run. I'd really like to make the race, particularly, ifthe nominees are 'Gush· and 'Bore.'" 
Donald Trump Refonn Party candidate 

whether our party is worth sav­ing," Farris said. "We can start growing to become the major third party in America. or we can sink to the depths of obliv­ion. a noble experiment that will be left to the ashbin of his­tory." 
Meanwhile, a person close to Gargan's faction, which is loyal to Minnesota Gov. Jesse 
,---------------------------, night after it turned into yet 
Does the New Millennium have you wondering what's next? 
' ,~ 

---, 
FIND THE ANSWERS 
I': 
AT THE SOCIAL CONCERNS FESTIVAL!! 

Where: The Center For Social Concerns When: Tuesday, January 25, 2000 Time: 7 pm -9 pm 
Lean, about the many ways to get involved in service through seminars, summer opportunities, campus clubs, and community organizations. 
Ventura, said there was a move afoot to hold a rival meeting the same day to reinforce Gargan's position. 
Some of Gargan's supporters want Gerald Moan ousted from the committee, along with any other supporters of party founder Hoss Perot. 
"This EC !executive commit­tee] is made up of the most rot­ten. dumb and ego-driven bunch of clowns I've ever seen in my entire life," 2000 Convention Chairman Ronn Young said in his own e-mail 
earlier this week, in call­
ing  for  
M  o a  n  s  
ouster.  
The  dis­ 

putes, mostly over insults and differing interpreta­tions of party rules and procedures. have spread from the Internet to 
the legal arena. Millions of dol­l a rs are at stake, including more than $2 million for the party's ·convention in August and $12. 6 million in federal matching funds the party earned by its showing in the 1996 presidential election. 
Gargan and his supporters hung up on a telephone execu­tive board session Tuesday 
another blowup over rules and procedures. A flurry of nasty e­mails ensued. 
While Trump said he would use his own money to fund a campaign, Buchanan has been relying on contributions and federal matching funds. Through Dec. 31. Buchanan raised $5 million, including $1.1 million during th'e last three months of the year, including October when he switched par­ties, a campaign official said. Buchanan did far better finan­cially running as a Republican four years earlier. taking in $7.3 million by the end of 1995. 
Trump. meanwhile. faces possible problems getting on the ballot for New York's presi­d1m tial primary March 7. 
got news? 1-5323. 


page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 21, 2000 



When you're broke, you look at things in a whole new way. 
So for textbooks and stuff, hit ecampus.com. You'll save up to 50%. And shipping's always free. 
ecampus:com 
Textbooks & Stuff. Cheap. 

Win atrip to Jamaica tor Spring Break. No purchase necessary. Sweepstakes begins 01/03/00 and ends 02/17/00. Open to US residents, 18 years and older. Void where prohibited. For details see Official Rules on www_ecampus_com or send aself addressed stamped envelope by 02/10/00 to: rlo Rolling Stone Spring Break, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, NY, NY 10104. (WA and VT residents may omit return postage.) 

Friday, January 21, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Clinton proposes education bill 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

President Clinton proposed a $31 billion plan Thursday to make college education more affordable and upbraided Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott for suggest­ing that no major legis­1 a t i o n would be enacted this elec­tion year. 
The centerpiece of the pro­posal was a $10,000 tax deduc­tion to help millions of Americans Where is the pay for tuition,
money 
books and going? university f e e s . "When we 
. $35 million for 
college Completion 
make col­Challenge grants lege more affordable,
. $716 million lor 
we make Pell grants t h e 
American

• $10,000 per d re a m
family tax deduclion 
m o r e to help Americans achiev­a b l e , " 
pay tor college 
Clinton 

. $400 million for 
said. Joining

initiatives such as 
Clinton for 

the Gear Up 
the White program llouse 
announce­nrnnt. on the first day of the last yt\ar of his prnsidency. were Hillary Bodham Clinton, who is running for thn Senate from New York. and a follow New York DPmocrat, Senator Charlns Schumer. 
··somn in Congress. I note. are saying that b!'causc this is an elPction y•\ar we really 

Castl¢'Poiot 
Apartments 
Clew/and and Ironwood Roads/18011 Cleveland Road/ South Bend, Indiana 46637/ (219)272-8110 
New Castle Point Seleet Units A.vailable fo1· Next Semeste1· 
*Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and tvvo bedroom aparttnents, some with lofts 

• 
Includes membership in the new 


Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 
shouldn't try to do anything for "College Opportunity Tax Cut" the American people." Clinton is fully operational in 2003. a said. "Nothing. not a national family earning $120,000 or less election or a Washington snow­annually could receive a tax storm, should get in the way of deduction of up to $10,000 for making a college education tuition, fees and job-related more affordable for all training. Altematively, taxpay­Americans." ers could seek a maximum 
The president was referring credit of $2,800 a year. A simi­to a comment Lott, R-Miss., lar proposal sponsored by made to reporters a day earlier. Schumer died in Congress last Lott said "everyone needs to year. acknowledge ... there won't be Mrs. Clinton noted that aver• a lot of time for big, new initia­age college tuition has doubled 
tives" on a shortened congres­over the past 20 years, outpac­sional calendar this year. i.n g median incomes. "This 
Skeptics touches question Americans in whether the "When we make college all incomes policy propos­and from all
more affordable, we 
als Clinton has walks of life,"
make the American 
madr, before she said. his State of dream more achievable. " While the the Union White House 
address Jan. accused
Bill Clinton
27 ca·n pass Republicans of 
U.S. president
t h e threatening to 
Republican­cont r o Ile d Congress. But White HousH ofTI­cials, seeking to address those concp,rns. seized on Lott's state­ment and insisted voters want action on education. 
"Members of Congress who have been in their districts understand that education is the toµ priority for most Americans," White House press secretary Joe Lockhart said. "I think there will be a political cost for those who want to walk awav." 
Lo·tt fired back, saying that Congress would move ahead to balance the federal budget, protect Social Security and Medicare, improve education and health care and the nation­al defense. 
"In addition," Lott said. "We will t:ontinue to resist al everv turn the Clinton-Gore liberals' call for more government, less freedom. and higher taxes." 
When Clinton's $30 billion put politics 
ahead of progress, offidals played down the political benefits of the ev<rnt to Mrs. Clinton's cam­paign and noted that she long ha.s advocated education initia­tives. 
The president's proposal included $35 million for the col­lege Completion Challenge grants, designed to spur college dropouts to return to class; $40 million for a new initiative to help minorities pursue five-year dual-degree programs in fields where they are underrepre­sented; and $716 million for Pell grants. 
Clinton also will seek a com­bined $400 million increase for initiatives such as the Gear Up program, which helps disad­vantaged youths stay in high school; TRIO, which helps them stay in college; and Job Corps, a national education and job training program targeted at impoverished youths. 

HelIDs bashes Security Council 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Senator Jesse Helms, who has made a career of lam­basting the United Nations, kept up the attack as he addressed the Security Council on Thursday, saying Americans feel "a lack of gratitude" from the world organization. 
Helms, R-N.C., who has previously branded U.N. offi­cials as "dysfunctional" and "cry babies," tempered his criticism by proposing a new spirit of cooperation with the world body and sugg~sted formal, annual visits between members and U.S. lawmak­ers. 
"If we are to have a new beginning, we must endeavor to understand each other bet­ter," Helms said in the first­ever address by a U.S. law­maker to the Security Council. 
Despite his courtly tone and offer of a "hand of friend­ship," delegates reacted cool­ly to Helms' litany of U.N. excesses and failings. 
American taFdiness in meeting its payments and Helms' insistence on a lower 
U.S. contribution "has hin­dered and not helped" peace­keeping efforts, said Jeremy Greenstock, the British envoy. 
Sergey Lavrov, Russia;s representative, complained that the United States failed to abide by terms of a U.N. budget that all members approved. "All the other members of the United Nations expected the United States to keep its word." he said. 
"The money we spend on the U.N. is not charity," Helms declared. "To the con­trary, it is an investment ­an investment from which the American people rightly expect a return." 
Congress last year voted to pay $926 million in back U.S. dues over three years. 
The United States paid a $100 million installment late last year. But to get the rest, the United Nations must meet about a dozen conditions drafted by Helms, the Senate 
~TRE DA 
'l__J\)/p A R T N E 
Foreign Relations Committee 
chairman, and Sen. Joseph 
Bidon, D-Del., the commit­
tee's senior minority member. 
The conditions includes a 
reduction the U.S. share of 
the U.N. peacekeeping budget 
from the current 31 percent 
to 25 percent and of the regu­
lar budget from 25 percent to 
22 percent. 
Helms said the United 
Nations must also trim its 
spending and not draw the 
United States into "entangling 
alliances." 
"A United Nations that seeks to impose its presumed authority on the American people without their consent begs for confrontation, and ­I want to be candid -eventu­al U.S. withdrawal," Helms asserted. 
The senator also accused the General Assembly of an anti-American bias. "The American people hear all this, they resent it. And they have grown increasingly frustrated with what they feel is a lack {)f gratitude," he said. 
Helms was invited to speak by U.S. Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, who holds the rotating council chairman­ship. 
Despite the blunt exchanges, Holbrooke said he hoped Helms' appearance would help in "bringing to a close a chapter of great ten­sion between Washington and the U.N." 
"It will help us push the reform package, which is our highest priority," he said. 
The full 188-member General Assembly must approve any major changes in the organization's operations and cost-sharing formula. 
Helms told the Security Council it had a "mixed record" in recent conflicts. 
While it "performed admirably" in ending Iraqi aggression against Kuwait in 1990-91, "In the more recent case of Kosovo, it was para­lyzed," Helms said. 
"The U .N. peacekeeping mission in Bosnia was a dis­aster, and its failure to pro­tect the Bosnian people from Serb genocide is well docu­mented," he added. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 OBSERVER Friday, January 21, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Norre O,me. IN 46556 024 Sou,h Drning H:ill. Norre D.mie. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krura 

MANAGING Eon-OR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  D.1vid Rogcro  
A.~ST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laur.i Perdle  

NEW'i EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughcn SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 

SCENE EDITOR: Mich:id Vaneg:1s SAINT MARYS EDITOR; Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lurz 
An O.l'SIGN MANAGER; Bre, Hudar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michad Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER, Timothy l.:me GRAPHICS EDTT0R: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
Omn M<1..\/AGlRIGLNLRAL INFO.............631-7471 
FAX................. ...............................63 1-6927 
ADVERTISING. . ..............631-6900/8840 observcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF.. ...................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/A.SST. ME.. ...631-4~41 BUSINESS OFFICE........ ............................631-53 l 3 NEWS. ............................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT. .................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........ ........................................63 l -4 543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.....................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARYS.. . ...................................... 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ....................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINJSTRAT0RS ...............631-8839 
lHE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sire at http://obseme,-.1£rl.edu for daily updares ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cmoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movie.s/music for

weather for up-to-the 
weekly srudenr reviews 

minure forecasts 
advertise for policies 
onli.ne features for spe­

and rates of prinr ads 
cial =pus coverage 

archive.s to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
ro meet the edirors and 

August 1999 
sulf 

POLICIES 
The Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Edirorial content, including adverrisemenrs, is not governed by policies of the adrniniscracion ofeither insricurion. The Obse,ver reserves che right to refuse adverrisemenrs b;1sed on conrenr 
The news is reported as m:rnrately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr rhe opinion of che majority of rhe Ediror in Chief, Managing Edi.tor, Assistant Managing Editor and departmem editors. Commentaries, letters anJ colmnns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor muse be signed and musr include contact inforrnati011. 
Questions regarding Obser11erpoliries shott!ti be direct­ed to E,litor m Chfrf.Mirhefl,, K1-upa 
~ 

Even at this early stage, it is clear that the real race for the 2000 presi­dential election is between GOP stand­out George W. Bush and the surprise Democratic con­
Bridget
tender Bill Bradley. Despite the pres­O'Connor ence of numerous other hopefuls, including the Vice Guest Column President, the Bush-Bradley race is where the majority of public attention has been focused, and rightly so. 
After nearly eight years of campaign­ing by Al Gore, Democrats are still shopping. Even with his claims to inventing the Internet. Gore remains the stiff sidekick to a scandal-ridden administration. Gore lacks the personal charisma that allowed President Clinton to sidestep the numerous indis­cretions and remain in favor. Without Bill, the entertainment factor of this administration is gone and we are left with the shadow or scandal. 
Enter Bill Bradley. 
Senator John McCain from Arizona has recently conilrmed his presidential aspirations on the Republican ticket. Upon first glance he has a lot going for him: war-hero status, a dynamic personality, a rcr,ord of bold initiatives including taking on campaign finance and tobacr,o. 
Unfortunately, a deeper look reveals that the downside to his dynamism is his stubbornness and propensity to ali('nate his fpllow r.ongressmen. In fact. McCain's reputation in Congress for being hard to work with and inef­fective as a result should dissuade vot­ers from signing on to another invita­tion for gridlock. 

So that pul<; us back to the front-run­ners. In head-to-head competition Bradley has the biographical advan­tage. An Eagle Scout, he hails from small town middle America and did a decade in the NBA before his senatori­al career. He has also benefited from a recent wave of good press resulting from his unexpected success. Bradley is a direct contrast to Clinton for the Democrats as a respectable messenger. Unfortunately, his message is lacking. His recent health care proposal was promoted as revolutionary but lacks any distinctive elements from other candidates' platforms. 
Bradley's ideas for education and Social Security reform are most alarm­ingly lacking. His treatment of the needs of the educational system are bland at best, especially when com­pared to Bush's impressive proposals for school choice and record of support for education as Texas governor. 
Bush supports the preservation of Social Security J'or l'uture generations through personal retirement accounts that would give individuals the oppor­tunity to realize a greater return on the mandatory contributions to the system by investing them in the stock market. flradley sets out an inadequate and unrealistic solution. suggesting that by simply supporting a prosperous econo­my f'uture Social Sncurity recnipts will be high enough to sustain the current level of payments. Perhaps he fails to grasp the concepts of demographic growth and an aging population which threaten the system. 
Bush's stance on life issues reinforce his image as a compassionate conserv­ative. He opposes abortion except in the infrequent cases of rape. incest or threats to the life of the mother and supports passage of the Partial Birth Abortion Ban. This is in sharp contrast to Bradley's record of outspoken sup­port for abortion. 
The differences between Bush and Bradley will ultimately come down to questions of limited government, per­sonal responsibility and local control. In the wake of the Clinton administra­tion, the American public will surely realize what can happen if the messen­ger takes precedent over the message. 
While it is disappointing that the less­er contenders don't have more of a chance at this early stage, their pres­ence will be helpful in challenging both Bush and Bradley to stay sharp and make meaningful claims. Based on the strength of their platforms, and bar­ring unforeseen public relations cata­strophes, Bush should easily top Bradley in the final consideration. 
Bridget O'Connor is a senior govern­ment and international relations major. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Mothers all want their sons to grow up to be President, but they don't want them to become politicians in the process." 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, January 21, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Black Like Me' represents heritage 
Forget walking a mih• in a man's shoP-s. how about bncom­ing him'? John Griffin facP.d a similar question in October 1959. He was then a middle-11.ged white man with a wife and children. and a burning desire to experience life as a blac4\ man. Ile origi­nally inlrndPd hi:­1\c'.('0Unts to br publislwd in thP nnwspaper. "SPpia." whir-h IatPr l'ornwd tht• book, "Black LikP Me." The Litle is takr,n from a I.angston llughes prn,m enti­tled "Drnam Variation:" 
Hnst at palf' evening ... 
/\ tall slim tree... 
Night coming tonderly 
On Nov. I Jl)5lJ. Grif'lin began his journey in New Orleans. La.. by meeting with a doctor to darken his pigmenta­lion through medkines, UV trnatments and stainer !'or touch-ups. By Nov. 7. ho had become convincingly black, evim fooling a shoe-shiner he frequented that week. He spent thP next six weeks traveling the South as a black man. then nettr lhe end o!' the term switched between the white Griffin and the black Griffin. One day, he would be refused bathroom access and given "the hate stare," the next he could sleep in any hotel he wanted, with complete friendliness. 
''Black Like Me" sets the stage for the American 
Civil Rights movement that most textbooks omit when they 
begin accounts with Martin Luther King Jr. and Rosa Parks. "Hlack Like 
Me" not only represents a part of American 
heritage. but Roman Catholic m, well. The black Griffin often found 
solace in 
Catholic places: from a bookstore, the 
sole business to cash his trav­eller's check, to a Trappist monastery offering refuge from a hostile society. 
John Griffin sacrificed greatly for his project. His fam­ily had to leave their homes, l;iends greeted them with silence and he gave his life. The stainer that helped him live two lives ultimately t{)ok his own by poisoning him. 
John Steinberg 
Sophomore Keough Hall January 20, 1999 

Mars failure echoes Mt. Graham fiasco 
Many at Notrn Dame who are perplexed at the NASA/Mars fail­llr!' and th<> Mt. Graham trlescope controversy, which their school is involv,~d in, may have wondered whether these events resulted from mismanagement at the agency or the congressional level. 
llistory shows it was some of both. Tucson Congressman Jim KolbP inserted clandestine language in a 1997 bill designating $10 million in NASA funds for a university of Arizona Large Binocular Tfllescopn (LBT} on Mt. Graham. This would have taken money l'rom ongoing NASA research on two dearly superior tele­scopes in Hawaii. LBT was years from completion whereas the NAS/\ n)search in Hawaii used two existing telescopes. Clinton vetoed this waste but Congress revoked the line-item veto. 
Was it also agency mismanagement? Scientists are in advertis­ing wars with each oth1>.r for federal grants, even when it means bad :,;cicmce:. Look again at Mt. Graham. University of Arizona sci­entists advertised this as a science breakthrough to Congress to g-Pt nxemptions from environmental and native American religious protection laws. 
ln rnality. 1;raham had been rejected by 20 key U.S. universities because of bad cloud cover, snowstorms and bad optical clarity cau.sed by Graham's bad topography and dense forestation. FurthArmore. this science blunder was based on a highly adver­tised University of Arizona mirror technology prone lo construe­lion failures and delays. University of Arizona languishes in either 11th or last place in the world race to build gigantic 8-meter tde­scopP.s. 
Like !he Mt. Graham fiasco. the Mars failurP was probably mis­managenH:nL by both Congress and the scientists. 
Elise Lauster Phoenix, A.ri1.. December 12, 1999 

os~tRVER page 13 

SAN LUIS OBISPO, Calif. -By now, we've all probably seen "Who Wants to be a Millionaire." Then came FOX's "Greed" and NBC's "Twenty-One." If en{)ugh wasn't enough, FOX is now pushing the limit by presenting a new 
Kelly Hendricks
millionaire game show with a different spin: "Who Wants to MARRY a Millionaire." California 
What's next? How about Poly State "How Many Millions of People are Sick of Hearing About These Corny Shows?" 
OK, that was a bit hypocritical. I admit it, I'm hooked too. I honestly spent last Saturday night glued to the couch, dedicating my time to Regis and the many contestants who work their way up to nearly half a million dollars and end up losing most of it because they give in to their greed. They go for the million by answering tricky Titanic trivia questions (another overdone topic) and being confident that the answer is, "I Will Always Love You" by Celine Dion (which had to have been the most entertaining answer of the whole show). 
FOX is probably thinking that this million­dollar game show fad will never die out. The network is presenting its "Marry a Millionaire" show this February, according to USA Today. The paper said the show has selected a mil­lionaire groom, along with 50 women compet­ing to become his bride. 
First of all, this whole millionaire game show thing is like the Taco Bell Chihuahua -it will get old very, very quickly. 
Secondly, I'm not a feminist by any means, but don't these 50 women have any self­respect? And why is the groom the million­aire? Why not have the bride be the million­aire and have 50 gro{)ms competing to marry· her?! 
Finally, what kind of guy is going t{) want a woman who is only interested in his money? I'm sure some guys wouldn't care if she was gorgeous and well-endowed, but women, like men, do get old and wrinkly -what then? 
I was always taught that you should marry for love, not for money. What is this saying about our society, and what kind of message is it communicating? In a money-and posses­sion-driven society, I think the last thing we need is a game show promoting love of money. 
The choice to tune in to the show is entirely upon each individual. For me, however, I'm vowing not to. No more television shows involving either "Who Wants to ... " or "Millionaire." I'm going to drop them like a bad habit, peel the couch off my back and get into the real world. 
And yes, that is my final answer. 
Kelly Hendricks is a student at California Poly State University. This column first appeared in the Mustang Daily at California Poly State U. and is reprinted here courtesy of the U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

8e-n,,d ttv-o-6~~pte-~c-lu~""6 to-024 8o-ut/4­Qi,(/\;i,(/\;')' cJ-e~tt t,.1 ]='t,id~1, tl~h,,U~'t,'I' 28. 

-·~------­


centt 
O
THE 

page 14 BSERVER Friday, January 21, 2000 
In search of Shermer 
By IAURA PETELL£ 
Scene W ricer 
"Shermer, Illinois, 60062." 
So begins "The Breakfast Club," that immortal tale of high school angst and redemption. 
In the recent moviP "Dogma," Silent Bob's sidekick, Jay, becomes angry that he went all the way to Illinois looking for Shermer, led by John Hughes' movies. He couldn't find it. 
Jay just didn't look hard enough. It exists. I know. I grew up there. 
It's not actually called Shermer. It used to be known as Shermerville, until the name was changed during Prohibition to heip Shermerville shed its party-town image. It's now known as Northbrook, and sits 25 miles north of the Chicago Loop, 4 miles west of Lake Michigan, in the area popularly known as the North Shore. 
John Hughes lived in Northbrook from the time he was 13 until he graduated from Glenbrook North High School in 1968. He went to the University 
of Arizona, dropped out and eventually began writing and directing movies. Many of his beloved teen movies, such as "The Breakfast Club," "Ferris Bueller's Day Off," "Pretty in Pink," "Weird Science" and "Sixteen Candles" are based on his experiences at Glenbrook North and are actually set there. 
We who live in Northbrook grow up steeped in John Hughes lore. This is where he filmed this scene; this is where he filmed that one. Many of the teachers and administrators in his films are based on real people, some of whom are still at Glenbrook North. We know who they are. Did you hear about the time he told off the adminis­tration and refused the distinguished alumnus award? Armed with a plethora of information on John Hughes and a complete list of his movies, I set off to discover Shermer. I became a tourist in my hometown, a stranger in a famil­iar land. 
Northbrook, Illinois, 60062. 
Walking around my neighborhood, I am sur­rounded by Hughes lore. Down the street is the house where they filmed the party scene in "Uncle Buck." Right there -across the street from my house -is where John Candy's trailer was parked, where I got his autograph. Nearby is the house his sister lived in for years. 
Northbrook is a small town of about 32,308 people, according to Uncle Sam's census bureau. It is 93 percent white. It is affiuent. It's a suburb that sometimes fits the description given it by native Ernest Hemingway, having "wide lawns and narrow minds." 
Shermerville was incorporated in 1901, a lit­tle town surrounded by farms that grew up around brickyards and inns. It halfway between Chicago and Milwaukee, Racine and Kenosha ­as far as a traveling salesman could get in a day, making it a popular overnight stop and creating good business for the taverns. 
On weekends, people would come down from Chicago to picnic and drink. Legend has it that Shermerville was famous for its brothels ("bricks and brothels"), and the town fathers changed the name seeking to shed this image. I checked at the Northbrook Historical Society, and they said this probably wasn't true. Another cher­ished childhood belief shattered. 

Later on, the brickyards faded and Culligan ("Hey, Culligan Man!") moved in. It's still here. 
During the post-vVWTT housing boom, Northbrook quickly changed from a farming town to a suburb of Chicago, a bedroom communil.y, perfect for commut­ing downtown. Like other suburbs north of Chicago, Northbook became rapidly gentrified. 
It was into this affluent community that John Hughes moved in the 1960s. Glcnbrook North, the high school he attended. has an enrollment of 1,866, 84 percent white, 14 percent Asian. It was in this school that Saturday detentions, a la "The Breakfast Club," were handed out -I personally won one for having three parking tickets my senior year (sorry, no flare gun in my locker). 
Other interesting statistics GRN provides for us: There were 13,208 visits to the nurse's office in 
--------, 

Who can forget the face of the water tower emblazened with the Immortal message "Save Ferris?" Well, perhaps the words weren't immortal, but memo­rable at best. The tower still stands today in Northbrook, IL, (left) though its message is long since painted over. Also unforgettable, the steps of the school, Glenbrook North, where Ferris' girl­friend, Sloane, await­ed his arrival as he swept her away from school for a ditch day of fun. 
LAURA PETELLE/The Obseiver 

1997, seven-and-a-half visits per student. In 1996, 
97.2 percent of the 396 students who graduated with me went on to college. The ACT average was 25.0 in 1998. There were 11 National Merit Semifinalists last year. 
But is Northbook Shermer? 
I went to the source: my former classmates. During the obligatory Christmas-break get-together with people you haven't talked to in six months, I asked about whether they felt GBN was "The Breakfast 
Club."  .  
We agreed that it was, at least in part. "I mean, it doesn't hang over my head,'' said "But the stereotypes are there." "The snobbery is there," interjected another.  one.  

"I think it's the categorization of others," said a third. "Maybe other high schools are like this, I don't know, but I find myself rven now trying to categorize people according to the categories and cliques there were in high school. You know, this guy's a football jock, that one's a band nerd, this one's a spoiled princess. I still do it when I meet people, and I only 
discovered this year that I wasn't getting to know some great people because I was dismiss­ing them because of those categories." 
"I wonder where they ended up," added a fourth. "I mean, do all the brains have Internet startups and millions of dollars?" 
So we took a brief mental survey of the Princesses, Brains, Athletes, Criminals and Basketcases, seeking out two of each to find out. 
One of our Brains is working as a web design­er in D.C. after finishing college in three years. The other is going on to grad school in biochem­istry. Both of our Princesses are in their senior year of college, one at a liberal arts school, the other at a state university. One is majoring in English and wants to be a consultant, the other is pre-med. One of our Athletes played in col­lege, took an injury to his ACL, and dropped out of college and sports. The other is going through college for an accounting degree and doesn't play anymore. We agreed that both took Emilio Estevez-style pressure from their par­ents, but that neither looked much like Estevez. 

Jt was tougher to figure out where the Criminals and Basketcases were. One of our Rebels was a drifter, who had left home and dropped out of school and was drifting around Chicago, the last we heard. The other Criminal, a big "problem child" in high school, majored in business and works for a bank. One Basketcase wasn't interested in college but has a steady job at a local supermarket. The other none of us could remember hearing about in over two years. 
Two things surprised me. The first was how splendidly boring we're all turning out to be. Those hard lines of demarcation in high school have given way to a plethora of "suit" jobs: banker, consultant, accountant. 
The other was that we couldn't agree where most of the people we knew would fit. Which I guess means that "The Breakfast Club" was right: "What we found out is that each one of us is a brain, and an athlete, and a basketcase, a princess, and a criminal." 



... 
O
THE Friday, January 21, 2000 BSERVER page 15 
The best of John Hughes 
Scene reviews John Hughes' contributions to the best teen flicks ofthe '80s 
By CASEY McCLUSKEY 
Scene Movie Critic 
Ferris Bueller's 
Day Off 
Everyone ha.s had that senioritis-feol­ing before of "How can they possibly expect me to handle school on a day like this?" The sun is shining and school is simply not an option for the day. Ferris Bueller has just this "dilemma" in "Ferris Bueller's Day Off." He knows he has to get his "sick" best friend out of bed, spring his girlfriend out of school and live by the philosophy: "What AREN'T we going to do today?" Ferris and his friends set out to conquer Chicago in a day and take on parades, museums, the Sear's Tower, a Cubs game and everything else they can get caught up in. Ferris knows it is his ninth and final sick day, so he better make it count. 
Breakfast Club 
Saturdays are not meant to be school days. Unfortunately for five students in "The Breakfast Club," this Saturday finds them stuck in school the whole day for deten­tion. Each stu­dent comes from a different clique and does not normally associ­ate with the oth­ers, but for one day, they find that the others are their only means of sur­vival. As the day wears on, each of the students' walls begins to come down, brick by brick, and they discov­er that they are truly not so dif­ferent from one another. They find that each of them is "a brain, and an athlete, and a basket case, a 

"Sweet 16," the passing from awk­wardness into wom­
FERRIS 
anhood. In "Sixteen Candles," Samantha has been looking

b the unw °'your'"-tm.t mar f.ast • lfetJme. 
forward to this day ... 
through all the
UELLER'S 
craziness in her life. Samantha has a crush on the most popular boy, but it is the school geek who has a crush on her; Samantha has no privacy because family has invaded the house for her sister's marriage; a.nd on top of every­thing else, everyone is too busy to remember Samantha's Sweet 
16. With the help of a lame school dance, a foreign exchange student named Long Due Dong and the biggest "parents­are-out-of-town-for­the-weekend" party of the year, Samantha's 16th birthday turns out to be pretty sweet after all. 
Pretty In Pink 

Photo courtesty of Universal Studios Not every teen movie is about the perfect, pop­ular kids. In "Pretty In Pink," Andie is a girl who does not fit the mold of many of the high school cliques. That is okay with her, though, because Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures 
..
she has her friends Iona and Duckie with whom Andie is quite content to hang out. Things begin to get a lit­tle uncomfortable when Blane moves to town. 
... 
Blane is one of those kids who could fit into any group. He's rich, handsome and fits in with the popular crowd that Andie never felt comfortable with because she lives on the other side of the tracks. Andie sees something in Blane, though, and develops a crush on him.
Photo courtesy ol Paramount Pictures 

Photo courtesy of Universal Studios 
When she tells her friends about it,discover a way to "create" their 



the guys stumble over their words and
princess, and a criminal." Duckie becomes jealous because he
popularity. Using their computer, can't seem to get the walk down 
has always had a secret crush on
Wyatt and Gary create "Lisa," the per­

either. Lisa has to bail them out of all 
Andie. Can two people from opposite

Weird Science fect woman whose total devotion to sorts of interesting situations on their 
sides of the tracks make it work. or

In today's computer driven world, Wyatt and Gary and her perfect body 
way to popularity. 
will Andie realize that she has had a

"Weird Science" is a funny look at are the boys' ticket to cool parties and 
secret crush on Duckie, too? No mat­

what a mess computers can get one popularity. Lisa gets the guys every­
Sixteen Candles ter what the outcome, one thing is for
into. Wyatt and Gary are two comput­thing they need to be "cool" and then 
In the midst of crazy adolescence, sure; at her prom, Andie will be the 
er geeks who cannot break into the helps them talk the talk and walk the 
many girls look forward to their one who is "pretty in pink."
popular scene. Then one day, they walk to coolness. The problem is that 
.. 

Friday, January 21, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 16 
high, Payne and Joe D, 
And Bird was discovering the The Mick, The Pistol, Ashe, game had begun to pass him by. Harry Caray, Cosell, FloJo and The only Kurt Warner spell!id Jimmy V. 
'Silent Saturday' stifles Chorney 
continued from page 28 

his name Curt, Sports sure have changed in football not Nitro or Raw. And Chicago's best baseball the decade just passed,
spectators' behavior 

Associated Press 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. 

Parents. fans and coaches who attend the Anne Arundel County Youth Basketball League games this weekend will not be allowed to cheer, clap, yell or speak to players on the court. 
Oh. and no noisemaking. Welcome to Silent Saturday, which actually extends to Sunday and affects hundreds of boys' and girls' basketball teams. 
It ·s an attempt by the Anne Arundel Countv Department of Recreation and Parks to curb increas­ingly hostile and rude behavior by spectators. 
Only players are allowed to speak. 
First-time violators will be given a warning; repeat offenders will be asked to leave. 
"We're trying this to say, 'Hey. we've got a problem out there."' recreation administrator Franklin Chaney said. 
Recreation officials said they'll try to add a bit of levity to a serious situation by distributing lollipops and pieces of tape at some games to help spectators keep their mouths occu­pied. 
"This should be one hell of a Saturday," joked Ron Mox. who supervises the boys' 8-14 basketball pro­gram. 
Recreation officials will fan out across the county this weekend to monitor games, enforce the policy and observe its progress. 
Not everyone likes the silent treatment. 
"They're doing social engineering here. It's just stupid," said Frank Dean, whose 17-year-old daugh­
ter is scheduled to play in a silent game Sunday. "I'm not going to let the county tell me not lo cheer. Kids like encouragement." 
Fans are allowed to smile and make signs during games -and Dean said he has one particular hand gesture in mind. Officially, paper signs are also allowed. provided they're tasteful. 
Fans may applaud only at the end of games. 
"I think it's a good idea," said Bob Marshaus, com­missioner of the Maryland Basketball Officials Association, which supplies referees for county games. "People are forgetting what these kids are there for. They [parentsl need a wake-up call." 
The idea has been kicking around for months. In November, parents of youth league players had to sign a pledge promising good manners at games. 
That's been a success. but officials said more needs to be done. 
Silent Saturday is mod­eled after a program insti-· tuted by an Ohio soccer organization. 
The silent treatment is new in Maryland and other places, so recreation departments around the country are waiting to see how it all turns out, Lisa DiGiacinto, division chief of recreation and athletics, said. 
"It's a national problem -the behavior of specta­tors at the youth level," she said. "Let's see what hap­pens when the noise isn't there." 
The problem, as she sees it, is a symptom of a larger deterioration of manners and venting of anger in society much like road rage. 
Walsh, Leyland and LaRussa looked like the answer to any team's woes, 
And the Rocket was making Domers scream while outrun­ning foes. 
Yount was baseball's first three-million-dollar man, And the Indians struggled to attract any fans. Lou was still picking grass and soundly beating Navy, And the Dome had yet to be burdened with Davie. Sixty home runs was still an unreachable number, simply too 

slugger was a rookie -not Sosa. the Big Hurt. The world had yet to experi­ence Sammy versus Mark, And the Rebels brought home a title to Tark. 
The polls told the Buffs and Tech to share their football title, 
While the Derby was won by a 
horse name Unbridled. Tyson was beaten, Steinbrenner banned, Gathers remembered by a Kimble's left hand. We still were graced by the presence of Sweetness, Wilt, 
Records were broken, statis­tics amassed. Old players retired, new play­ers turned old, Players were traded, teams moved or sold. But despite the changes one thing remained the same, 
There joy of competition still exists. there's still the love of the game. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Collins ordered to stay in Florida 
Associated Press 
FOl1T Lt\UDEl1DALE. Fla. 
Suspended Miami Dolphins running back Cecil Collins, jailed on a probation violation, appar­ently won't be heading back to Louisiana anytime soon and he might face even more charges in his Florida case. 
At a hearing Thursday, Circuit Judge Dale Ross ruled a waiver of extradition from Louisiana ­previously signed by Collins ­was indeed valid, but that the state will have to wait until Florida courts are through with him. 
Collins is charged with one count of burglary for breaking into a neighbor's apartment Dec. 
16. He remains in a Broward County jail awaiting extradition for violating his Louisiana proba­tion. 
In Louisiana, he was charged twice in the summer of 1998 with unauthorized entry at his apartment complex in Baton Rouge. 
Both cases involved female residents, including a 17-year­
old who accused Collins of exposing himself and rubbing against her. 

"If today's hearing shows anything it's that Cecil Collins, in addition to being a sexual predator, is also a habitllal liar." 
Jim Lewis Noltes' attorney 
Whether Collins will get to stand trial here before he gets shipped back to Louisiana is still up in the air. 
''The waiver of extradition is valid, but the judge believes that Louisiana can't come and get Mr. Collins until 30 days after our case is over," said prosecutor Dan Losey. "Louisiana wants to come and get him, so I don't know what for sure is going to happen. I'd like to try the case." 
Collins' attorney, Fred Haddad, tried to argue Collins was never told he had waived his rights concerning extradition as "spe­cial conditions" of his probation. 
"We took a writ on the extradi­tion to try to disprove or put into issue the waiver," Haddad said. "We knew it was going to be an uphill battle, they have a signed, executed waiver." 
Collins, who testified on his own behalf Thursday, said he did not know what he was signing. 
"I was never explain!'d them," Collins said. "I was just told there were papers I had to sign." 
The state's attorney's office refuted those claims by flying in Gerri Garon, Collins' probation officer in Baton Rouge. 
"We read and discussed every­thing on the document," Garon said. "l read this and he signed it." 
After the hearing, attorney Jim Lewis. who represents Tina and Ronald Nolte, the couple who accused Collins of breaking into their bedroom window while they slept, accused the apart­ment development and the Dolphins of perpetrating a cover­up of similar incidents. 
"If today's hearing shows any­thing it's that Cecil Collins, in addition to being a sexual preda­tor, is also a habitual liar. That was proved by the testimony of the probation officer from Louisiana," Lewis said. 
"Secondly, there appears to be some type of collusion between the Miami Dolphins football team and this apartment complex, in which many Dolphins stay, to have covered up his conduct." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
" 
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  Technology and I just don't get  To move the beds out or to not  
Imagine hiking over thousands of  AND CLOSE  along.  move the beds out -that is the  
NOTICES  acres of almost untouched trails.breathing in fresh.crisp Rocky  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com  PERSONAL  New is not necessarily better.  question  
Mountain air with the lingering  232-2595  
COACH: Need Jr. High girls coach- scent of pine trees.Imagine con- www.thecommentator.com  T -take any more shower shots  Katie I can't wait for FH!  
responsible.dependable ,student or  quering the challenge of biking the  6 BEDRM. '00-'01  today?  
grad to coach ?-8th grade girls bas- famous Going-to-the-Sun Highway  $1200/mo. 273-0482  Free CD of cool indie music when  Mike Connolly is the greatest sports  
ketball B-team.Jan-Mar;for south- or screaming from the breathtaking  you register at mybytes.com. the  I have a water bottle.  person ever because computers  
side elementary school.located  thrill of whitewater rafling,then the  ultimate website for your college  like him.  
near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.Must be available for prac­ peaceful serenity of setting up camp next to a turquoise blue glaci- FOR SALE  needs.  Chris · how's that Jewel mix coming along for the party?  Thank him for this sports section  
tices Mon-Thurs from 2:20 3:15.  er lake.Imagine no more!St. Mary  Where my girls at? Oh, theyOre at  today.  
Game schedule varies with 9-10  Lodge & Resort.Glacier National  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  Heartland. IOm there next week  
games beginning after school at  Park's finest.is now hiring for the  with orthopedic mattress and  though.  I want a nut roll like Andi has.  But whatever you do -don't thank  
4:00.or S+p.mPaid position. Call 291-4200 to apply.  2000 summer season.Benefits include guaranteed bonus and low  deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $235  C.G. tl Thanks for helping me  the computers.  
cost housing.We will be on campus  219-862-2082  party. Do we know how to make the  Scary stuff is happening  
SUMMER JOB WI GIFTED KIDS  February 2.Call (800)368-3689 to  most of 60 minutes or what? • SR  what is that? Salt?  
Northwestern University's Center  schedule an interview or e-mail  '95 CAMARO, RED, T-TOP,  
for Talented Development Is hmng  name and mailing address to  LOADED, 45K. MINT COND.  GOOD LUCK SMC BUSINESS  Revers. fix these stupid computers  
,­ residentialcounselors/T A's. Experien  jobs@glcpark.com for an app!ica­ $11,500 OR BIO. 219-291-5471  MAJORS! ROCK THAT COMP'  
ce wlkids pref.Room/board provid­ !ion.Check out our web site at  THEN, Time for a coaches-backer  No I think it's Almond bark?  
ed for counselors.Comp. salary.  www.glcpark.com to learn more  96 Ford Ranger XL 54k mi, CD  night, right?  Why do the computers hate Kerry?  
great work experience.6125-8132 +  about the opportunity of a lifetime!  player. man. trans.  
training.To apply, call (847)467­ 
 $7000, obo. Call Tony, 273-5319  See Gina, t do write you these  Oh no, that's what covers pretzels.  The Morrissey Contingency must  
7884.Thank you.  things I And donOt think UsherOs  be destroyed  
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­ FOR RENT  SPRING BREAK 2000 PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  been forgotten.  But salt does too.  
MENTCENTER  FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND·  People are idiots.  Very confusing.  One down ....  
Earn money and tiuild resume  6 BDRM HOME.  PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT  -The SinNott  
experience while interacting with  FURNISHED.  THE "FUN PLACE"!  Stephie: "This is going to be a  
del1ght1ul young children.The Early  AVAILABLE NOW.  TIKI BEACH BAR ENT EAT AIN- Why do computers hate me?  debacle" i hope not .... or we could  Three to go  
Childhood Development Center at  $150. PER.  MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPO- be in for some serious trouble -but  
Saint Mary's College,located in  272-6306  RATED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE  They crash only for me.  that's always fun too, right?  
Havican Hall, is currently accepting  HARD BODY CONTESTS  Stay out of the chat rooms Pete.  
applications from college students  2-6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01  3 POOLS LAZV RIVER WATER  Why does Connolly get to have the  Picture me in flourescent green and  
for part time positions.The hours  272-6306  SLIDE HUGE BEACHFRONT HOT  magic touch?  leaping • do I look like an orgo  
vary.including 11:30 a.m.-1:15 p.m.  TUB MINI GOLF  book yet?  Petey8000  
on Tuesdays and Thursdays. If you  3 bedroom duplex  GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10  I guess it's my magnetism.  
are interested in applying.please  appliances.W/D  PEOPLE  Or maybe it was bright yellow • any- 
contact Amy Moskalickt 284-4693  1 mile from campus  1-800-488-8828  Same thing happens with street  way do you know which shelf it's  This is the end. . my only friend ...  
for more information.  273-8332  WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  lights.  on?  the end  

Friday, January 21, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Rockets blast Nuggets, 122-115 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

Shandon Anderson had 26 points and 13 rebounds as the Houston Hockets won their sea­son-high fifth straight with a 122-115 victory over the Denver Nuggets on Thursday night. 
Anderson was une short of his earner high, rookie Steve Francis added 22 points and seven assists and Kenny Thomas had 13 points and 10 rebounds. Cuttino Mobley had 17 points. 
Thn Hor.knts offset Antonio 
McDyess' season-high 40 
points, six short of his career 
high. Nick Van Exel added 31 
points and 11 assists, and Ron 
Morrrr had 22 points for tlrn 
Nuggets, who lost their season­
high !ifth straight. 
Hornets 109, 76ers 100 
DPrrick Coleman and Eddie 
.lmws each scored 23 points as 
th\~ Charlott<' Horn0ts rnllkd in 
tlw third quart11r to linish with 
a victory over tlw Philadelphia 
76ers. 
The Hornets won their third 
straight since losing seven in a 
row, and stopped 
Philadelphia's winning streak 
at four. 
David Wesley scored 15 
poinL'i, Ricky Davis had 13. and 
Anthony Mason and Elden 
Campbell each added 10 for the 
llornets. 
Allen Iverson led the 76ers 
with 35 points, while Tyrone 
Hill had 17. George Lynch 16 
and Larry Hughes 13. 
After trailing by two at the 
half, Charlotte took the lead for 
good 55-54 on a pair of free 
throws by Mason. The Hornets 
put the game away late in the 
third p(ffiod. 
Nets 122, Pistons 120 
Stephon Marbury had 34 points and 15 assists and Jamie Feick grabbed a career-high 25 rebounds as the New Jersey Nets blew a 17-point lead before beating the Detroit Pistons 122-120 Thursday night. 
Keith Van Horn added 28 points before fouling out late and Scott Burrell hit a go­ahead drive across the lane with 48.4 seconds to play as the Nets ended a three-game losing streak and handed the Pistons their second straight loss. 
The Nets' win wasn't sealed until Lindsey Hunter missed a 16-foot jumper just before the buzzer and Feick got his final rebound. Thfl shot was some­what questionable since Christian Laettner (28 points), Jerry Stackhouse (28) and Grant Hill {23) were all on the floor and Hunter (12 points) didn't seem to be the obvious shooting choice. 
Sonics 104, Bucks 96 
Vin BakPr had 31 points and Cary Payton added 22 points, 10 rebounds and seven assists as the Seattle Supersonics won their seventh straight. 
Baker carried the Sonics through the first half with 26 points, but Payton made all the big plays late: He scored seven straight points for Seattle after Milwaukee tied the game with 
1:57 to play, and he forced Rav Allen into a turnover tha·t sealed the Sonics' sixth straight road win. 
The streaking Sonics have won all six of their road games!n J~n~ary, witb three coming 111 difficult buildings. Seattle beat the Lakers, the Spurs and the Bucks, who had won seven of their last eight home games. 
George Karl lost to the Sonics for the first time since being fired by the team in 1998. Karl had a 384-150 record in Seattle from 1992-98 before he was replaced by Paul Westphal. 
Seattle held a small lead all night until the Bucks made a 13-3 run late in the fourth quarter. Allen's 3-pointer made it 92-88 with 2:58 left. and Allen hit Tim Thomas for an alley-oop dunk 33 seconds later. 
Jazz 94, Grizzlies 89 
Karl Malone scored 18 of his 32 points in the third quarter as the Utah Jazz improved to 17-0 all-time against the Vancouver Grizzlies. 
Byron Russell scored 25 and .John Stockton had 12 assists as the Jazz bounced back from Wednesday's 91-88 loss to Minnesota with their ninth win in 11 games. 
Malone, who went 8-for-10 from the fidd in the third quar­ter, also pulled down 12 rebounds. 
Mike Bibby and Othella Harrington each had 22 points for the Grizzlies, who lost their fourth straight game, and sixth straight at home. Bibby added nine assists. 
The Jazz pulled out the victo­ry dflspite Vancouver's 9-2 run which cut Utah's lead to 90-89 when Shareef Abdur-Hahim hit an l'ight-foot hook shot from the right post with 18.4 sec­onds remaining. 
Russf'!l, who finished 6-for-11 from the free-throw line, sealed the victory by sinking two foul shots on Utah's next posses­sion. 
The Grizzlies' last chance to lie the game ended when Bibby threw up a wild and awkward 3-point attempt which banged off the backboard and into Howard Eisley's hands. 
takers 111, Magic 103 
Vlade Divac had 17 points, 12 rebounds and five blocks as the Sacramento Kings won their seventh straight with a victory over the Orlando Magic. 
The Kings played without leading scorer and rebounder Chris Webber, who is dav-to­day with a neck strain, butwon for the 11th time in 13 games. 
Predrag Stojakovic had 17 points and 10 rebounds Lawrence Funderburke scored 15, and Corliss Williamson and Tyrone Corbin each had 12 for Sacramento. 
Corey Maggette scored 18 points and Darrell Armstrong added 16 for Orlando, which suffered its eighth straight loss and 12th in 13 games. 
Funderburke scored 10 
points during an 18-4 run at 
the beginning of the fourth 
quarter as Sacramento took a 
102-93 lead. The Kings never 
trailed again. 

NHL 
Dafoe, Bruins bolt past Lightning, 4-2 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, fla. 
Byron Dafoe stopped 26 shots and Andre Savage scored a fluke third-period goal as the Boston Bruins beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 4-2 Thursday night. 
The victory gave the Bruins their first two-game winning streak since Nov. 22-24. Boston also has a five-game unbeaten streak, 2-0-3. 
Dafoe made point-blank saves in the first period on Fredrik Modin and Pavel Kubina. He also stopped Robert Petrovicky from in­close during the second period. 
Savage was credited with a goal at 8:32 of the third, mak­ing it 3-1. Tampa Bay's Chris Gratton beat Savage on a face­off, but the puck deflected into the net off Lightning defense­man Paul Mara. 
Rangers 4, Hurricanes 1 
Radek Dvorak and Michael 
York scored 1:31 apart in the 
first period as the New York 
Rangers defeated the slumping 
Carolina Hurricanes. 
The Rangers won their 
fourth straight and sixth in 
seven contests, while the 
Hurricanes dropped their sea­
son-high fifth straight. The last 
time Carolina lost as many was 
the final five games of the 
1997 -98 season. 
John MacLean's goal 2:11 
into the third period sealed the 
victory for the surging 
Rangers, who scored three 
goals on their first 11 shots. 
MacLean's empty-net score 
with 1.4 seconds left was the 
400th goal of his career. 
Ron Francis broke Richter's 
shutout bid, scoring with 4:05 
left. 

Flyers 1, Senators 1 
Rookie Brian Boucher made 22 saves filling in for John Vanbiesbrouck, but the Philadelphia Flyers extended 
their winless streak to four games Thursday night with a 1-1 tie against the Ottawa Senators. 
The Flyers continued to struggle without injured cap­tain Eric Lindros, who might learn Friday when he can return from his third concus­sion in 22 months. The Flyers have scored three goals during their 0-3-1 slide -one in each game Lindros has missed. 
Coyotes 2, Sabres 1 
Keith Tkachuk scored a goal and Dallas Drake added one, with Phoenix short-handed, as the Coyotes defeated the Buffalo Sabres. 
Chris Taylor ruined Sean Rurke's shutout attempt, scor­ing on a rebound with 9:05 left, but the Coyotes, who blew a three-goal lead in a 4-4 tie with Nashville two days earli­er, regrouped and preserved their Pacific Division-leading 25th win. 
Burke had 28 saves. He and Phoenix's special teams kept the Sabres, who had scored seven power-play goals in their last seven games, scoreless in four advantages. 
Stars 5, Kings 2 
Darryl Sydor and Brett Hull scored second-period power­play goals as Dallas beat Los Angeles, the Stars' 10th straight victory over the Kings. 
Mike Modano and Blake Sloan each had a goal and two assists and Richard Matvichuk assisted on three goals as the Stars extended their unbeaten streak against the Kings to 21 games (15-0-6). 
The streak matches Dallas' longest unbeaten stretch against any opponent. The Stars were 17-0-4 against the Kings from March 31, 1970 through Dec. 11, 1973. 
Garry Galley scored for the Kings, Marko Tuomainen added a short-handed goal and Sean O'Donnell had two assists. 


,.,. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Owners give Selig unlimited power 
"I don't think people at all costs. He could negotiate Associated Press the best extension he can get
understand the 

PHOENIX with the union and say it's in If baseball owners go to war significance ofwhat's baseball's best interests to with their players again in two happened here in the avoid another work stoppage. years. Bud Selig will have Union head Donald Fehr
last 24 hours."

unprecedented power -maybe wouldn't comment extensively 
enough to win the salary cap on Selig's iucreased power, other than to say the players'
many teams want. Bud Selig Or. if he wants to avoid a association had a duty to
baseball commissioner 

war. he'll have the power to ensure that "the collective-bar­
negotiate an extension of base­gaining process and our agree­ments are adhered to."
ball's labor contract. work stoppages since 1972. is Selig, while not saying what
"The developments of the last still recovering from the last two days in any historical con­one, a 232-day strike in 1994-he would do, agreed with com­text are staggering, inconceiv­95 that wiped out the World missioner Bowie Kuhn's June able 10 or 12 years ago," SPlig Series for the first time in 90 1976 decision to stop Oakland 
owner Charlie Finley from sell­said Thursday after a two-day years. 

meeting reversed years of ero­The sport's labor contract ing pitcher Rollie Fingers and outfielder Joe Rudi to Roston
sion of the commissioner's runs through this season, but 
for $2 million and pitcher Vidaauthority. "I don't think people the players' association is Blue to the Yankees for $1.5

understand the significance of expected to exercise its right to what's happened· here in the a one-year extension. million. "In his mind, at that time. he
last 24 hours." Then, barring an extension, was protecting the best inter­
Owners voted Thursday to it's back to the bargaining give all their Internet rights -table, and many teams want a ests of the game," Selig said. 
"In the end, I was supportive of including radio broadcasts and salary cap that will allow them Bowie's decision)' video when technology to compete with the large mar­Selig said he would await the

becomes available -to the kets. While the New York 
report of baseball's latest eco­commissioner's ofiirn. Yankees had basebaU's highest nomic study committee. expect­A day earlier. they gave Selig payroll last year -$92 million ed by opening day. before usingpower "without limitation" to -Florida spent less than one­his new power.

ensure "there is an appropriate sixth of that, $15..15 million. 
Friday, January 21, 2000 

NBA 
Doctors clear Elliott to suit up for Spurs 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO 

San Antonio Spurs forward Sean Elliott said Thursday he has been deared to play. just five months after receiving a 
kidney trans­plant, but team ofli­cials are skeptical at how quickly he can return. 
" H e 

said he Elliot w a s cleared to play and I said, 'No, you're nnt,' not until I see things in writing -then he's cleared," Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said. 
"The decision is up to Sean Elliott, not me. The doctors can dear him, but the ulti­mate decision is Scan Elliott's. 
With me, it cnmes down to whether he can help the team, not if the doctors can clear him." 
Elliott underwent a kidney transplant on Aug. 16, receiv­ing the organ from his broth­er, Noel Elliott. 
Elliott had been practicing with the NBA champions for nearly a month, but has yet to participate in contact drills. While he has joined team­mates in conditioning drills. Elliotl has spent most of his practice time alone, running sprints and stairs. 
After Thursday's practice, Elliott pror.laimed himself ready to take the next step. 
"As it looks right now, they're going to clear me and I'll be ready to mix it up," Elliott said. "l feel pretty good. I'm in the best shape I've been in since I got out of the hospi­tal. When I came back, I was surprised at how good I was feeling." 

level of long-term competitive Under the current coutracl, balance among the clubs" and approval of the players' associ­told him to use it. ation is needed for any rev­
He can override all of base­enue-sharing changes, one of ball's rules -even blocking the reasons large-market teams trades -and attempt to didn't object to Selig's new impose a salary cap if he thinks power. several high-level base­bargaining with players after ball and team officials said on the 2001 season has reached the condition they not be identi­an impasse. fied. 
"It will strengthen the posi­They think the union tion of major league baseball," wouldn't approve radical Houston Astros ovmer Drayton change because it would take Mclane said. "He's had best­money away from baseball's interests power over the biggest spenders, who raise the integrity of the game. Now he top salaries, the officials said. has best-interests power over Selig has also gained the the economics of the game." power to ignore the ownership 
Baseball, which has had eight hawks who want a salary cap 
Have you experienced any of the followin~? 
* 
Preoccupation with food, calories, or fat grams 

* 
Restriction of food intake or feeling guilty after eating 

* 
Feeling out ofcontrol when eating 

* 
Getting rid of food by vomiting, laxatives, fasting, water pills, or excessive exercise 

* 
Preoccupation with weight 

* 
Decreased concentration or mood swings 

* 
Sleep disturbances 

* 
Dizziness or lightheadedness 

* 
Irregular or absent menstruation 



If so, you may want to be evaluated by a prnfessional trained and experienced in eating disorders. Please call to register for the next eating disorder support group beginning February 7, 2000. 
Holy Cross: Men for aNew Millennium 


ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 

· www.nd.edu/-vocation 

----·· -· 

Friday, January 21, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
2000 SUMMER & INTERNSHIP 
JOB FAIR
.. 
Sponsored by The Career Center 
Thursday, January 27, 2000 
12:00 noon -4:00 p.m. 

EVERY MAJOR! EVERY DEGREE! EVERY GRADUATION DATE! 
Bring your resumes to the North Dome (Hockey Rink Side) Joyce Center Arena! 
~~'!!"'!I!" 

ABN AMRO/LaSalle Banks AFLAC AT & T/ Finance Alcoa Allegiance Corporation Allstate Insurance Company American Express Financial 
Advisors American Management Systems Amway Corporation Andersen Consulting Arthur Andersen BDO Seidman, LLP Bank One Corporation Baxter Healthcare Corporation CSG Systems, Inc. Camp Sweeney Cargill Cassady, Neeser & Brasseur Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. Chase Securities, Inc. Ciberlncorporated Clarity Consulting, Incorporated Clarke Environmental 
Mosquito Management College Gifted Programs Compaq Computer Corporation Credit Suisse First Boston 
Dana Corporation 
Davis, Couden, Enderle & Sloan 
Deloitte & Touche Delphi Automotive Systems Discover Financial Services Enterprise Rent-A-Car 
Ernst & Young 
Ford Motor Company 
General Electric 
General Mills 
General Motors 
Geneva Youth Center Hewitt Associates Hill & Knowlton Honeywell IBM Illinois DOT Indiana DOT INTEL Corporation lsanogel Center KPMG,LLP Kajima Construction Services Legal Services of Northern Indiana Meijer, Inc. Meritor Automotive Minnesota Life Nabisco Biscuit Co. Navigant Consulting Northwestern Mutual Life Notre Dame Council for International 

Business Development PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble (3 Divisions) Right Services, Incorporated SARG -Student Alumni Relations 
Group Signature Graphics, Inc. South Bend Silverhawks 
~ 

State of Indiana -State Personnel Dept. Student Conservation Association 
TRW 
Technology Services Group Tellabs The Associates The Mony Group, Inc. Tucker Alan, Incorporated United States Air Force United States Marine Corps University Directories Virtualintern.com William Mercer, Inc. Wolfram Research, Inc. 

Resume/Document(s) drop 

AMS Tech Fox News Channel Alliance for Health Reform Goldman Sachs American Business Press Gregg M. Rzepczynski & Associates American Civil Liberties Union ldyllwild Arts Summer Program American Legislative Exchange Council Indiana Dept. of Transportation American Rivers, Inc. Johns Hopkins University Center Americans for Democratic Action For Talented Youth Appalachian Mountain Club Kids Corporation Appel Farm Arts & !\1:usic Center Lake View Hotel -Mackinac Island Aquarium of Niagara Mandalay Pictures & Television Au Pair in Europe McGraw -Hill Publishing BUNAC-Work in Britain Merrill Lynch Burke/Triolo Productions Mid-America Committee Center for Campus Organizing Monterey Bay Aquarium Chestenvood Museum Research Institute Comerica Bank Museum of Contemporary Art Concordia Orchestra Musiker Tours & Summer Discovery First Investors Corporation NASA -Johnson Space Center Naval Historical Center New England Financial Nordam Overseas Private Investment Corp. Plimouth Plantation Project Future Project on Government Oversight Random House Roswell Park Cancer Institute Rubin, Brown, Gorstein & Company Sagemark Consulting Sigma-Aldrich Corporation The Atlantic Council of the U.S. The Brookings Institution Vector Marketing Corporation • 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 21, 2000 
PGA 
Begay ready to face consequences 
Associated Pres, 
ALRLIQUERQUE, N.M. 

' I American Indian golfer Notah 
I Begay, arrested for drunken dri­
I 
ving following a latP.-night park­

' 
ing-lot collision, said Thursday he wants to lake full responsibil­ity and face the consequences. 
"It's a cut-and-dried case of bad judgment." Begay sai.d as he prepared to play golf at the University of New Mexico course. "It will not happon again." 
He said he may quit drinking entirely. Begay was arrested about 11:30 p.m. Wednesday on charges of aggravated driving while intoxicated and failure to keep proper lnokout. 
"It was a traffic accidnnt in a parking loL, and Begay struck an unoccupied parked car," police spokesman John Walsh said. "The owner of the parked car was standing by the vehicle." 
The collision occurred outside Billy's Long Bar, a popular Albuquerque night spot. Walsh said. 
Aggravated DWI. a petty mis­demeanor. carries a penalty of up to 90 days in jail and a $500 fine. District Attorney Jeff Romero said. Judges may reduce the jail time, but the aggravated charge requires a person to spend at least two days in jail, he said. 
Begay, 27. who lectured youth on the dangers of drugs and alcohol during a gotr clinic last November, also visitPd with stu­dents on Thursday morning. He had been freed by police without having to post bail around 3 a.m. 
Facing tht' students was hard "knowing that they look up lo me," he said. 
The arrest could affect Rcgay's six-figure endorsement contract with Nike, he said. 
"If they do pu II it [the con­tract], I deserve it" Begay said. 'Tm not going to tell them not to. They've got a bigger agenda thau me." 
"We're going to stand behind '.\lotab," Ylike Kelly, director of marketing communications fo1· Nike Golf said. "Notah Begay is a great person. Ile admitted he made a mistake. We will sit dm-vn with him and see if we can help in any way. He is great for the game of golf. Be is great in his community and for Native Americans everywhere." 
Th<' arrest also might have an impact on fans' view of him, Begay said. 
"It's a negative impact, but 1 would expect nothing less,'.' he said. "If you do something wrong, it shouldn't help you. You do something wrong, you pay the price. It's going to take some time to regain the confi­dence and support of some or my fans, and I'm going to lose some of them. That's just the nature or the beast." 

Jordan, Selig relish new power 
wealth and f'ine teams like 
Associated Press 

they'd been caught dumping toxic waste instead of' overpaidTwo guys in different sports ballplayers.
came into a lot of power yester­And as Selig noted, the stickday. One of them used to be a only comes out after he's con­playPr. The other one used to vinced that dangling carrots inbe an owner. Neither knows 
front of people won't make
exactly what he is getting him­them behave.
sf1lfinto. And the ruturn of' Hrnir 'Tm not." Selig said, "going
sports may hang in the lrnl­
to get into the specific things 1 
ance. 

can and cannot do." 
Who said the millennium 
Everybody likes to say there
wouldn't start 
am alrnadywilh a bang'' 
e n o u g h

W<\clnesday in "J don't get to play. I 
rules on the
Washington, 

don 't get to wear a books; that
Miehrwl Jordan 
all that's

Wizards unijorm. but I 
promised a new 
needed is

magic trick. llo will have influence with 
for some­
said he would 

the players who wear the body to 
turn the woeful 
enforce

uniform."
Wizards into them. WeNBA champi­
arc about to 
ons. in 

Michael Jordan find out if'
exchange for a 

Wizards president that's trur..
piece of the club down the 
road. 

Being Jordan, he already had a plan. The first thing he did was streamline the chain of command: lie said be will report to majority ownP.r Abe Pollin; everybody else will report to him. 
"l don't get to play. I don't get to wear a Wizards uniform. but I will have influence with the players who wear the uniform," Jordan said. 
Soon after that, in Phoenix. commissioner Bud Selig was showing around the stick he'd just been handed by the ownms to rnstore competitive balance to baseball. With the sweeping powers contai,rnd in baseball's "best interests" clause, Selig can block trades, redistribute 
Jordan is 

going to try to build a basketball empire from lower than scratch. He needed better players, starting last wnok, and the Wizards (we're not making this up) don't have significant cap room until the. 2002-0:1 sea.son. 
But let's say Jordan is shrewd. And let's say cutting through the red tape of running a franchise is as easy as he makes it sound, running from the practice court to the tele­phone. And let's say he actually scares a few of' those high­priced problems away in prac­tice and dumps their contracts on somebody elsP. 
Ile still has to acquire a few players or his own. And wait until .Jordan discovers how many problems and how little 
heartache all that ownership money will buy. 
Then it won't matter that Jordan could still dribble around any of them with one band tied behind his back. Or that he could dunk over any two -laid end to end -while still wearing a business suit. He cannot balk at the going rate for talent. Not with a straight face. anyway. Jordan himself is only a few years removed from strong-arming an own0r out of $3J million. 
The difference. of course. is that he was worth it. Wait until he finds out how much that's worth to some kid and his agent across a negotiating table. 
"Most players and their agents would rather take more money from Elmer Fudd than less money from Michael Jordan, no matter how much they respect him and appreciat­ed him as a player," said Jerry Reynolds, his counterpart with the Sacramento Kings. 
"In the [negotiating] arena, it is, was, and always will be about money." 
Jordan carries quite a few banners into this light. Just by returning, he brought tho President out and some buzz back to the NBA, a neat trick at a time when interest is slipping and crowds are off by about 10 percent. And a successful segue into ownership would raise tho ceiling for former players. much like Jerry West did by walking off tlrn court and into the Lakers f'ront office to become just as valuable an executive as he was a player. But it won't happen without a lot of' pain. 

Summer Service Projects 
WHAT ARE YOU DOING THE SUMMER OF 2000? 
. 
Bweeks ofservice learning with the unaerservea 

. 
$1700 tuition scholarship 

. 
Valuable alumni contacts 

. 
3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists . over zoo sites across the U.S. ana abroaa 

. 
Possibility ofaaaitional $1100 Americorp funas 


Application, are QYGilable al th• CSC· oppl, now!
csc 
C£NT[R FOR 

D•adline: Jan 18111 (rollifuJ acceplance,)
SOCIAL 

Qt1e$tion$7 Ca(l ,RACY at 631.tJJ/.02.
CONCERNS 


hiday, January 21, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Smith learns to live before NBA 
He allegedly threatened the 

Associated Pres• 
cx-girlfrimd with a gun, then got out uf jail and allr,gedly rammedLeon Smith, whose bid to go a car belonging to the ex-girl­from high school star to NBA friend's mother and smashed out rookie has been a disaster, said all the windows. He's fadng a

problems with the Dallas 
Feb. 3 court date for two countsMavericks and a former girl­of criminal damage. 

fri1md IP.d him to try committing 'Tm not afraid to admit I wassuicide. 
in love and that added on to a lot"The truth is I was trying to of things that were going on," he c>nd my lifo," Smith. who swal­said. "It drove me crazy. lt gotlowed 250 aspirin on Nov. 14, the anger to start building up

told KHIV-TV in Houston on 
inside of me."

Thursday. KI 
The NBA 

was trying to get 
"Ba.c;ketball will take care player's asso­

rid of the pain. 
That was the ofitse(fbut you have to ciation 
stepped in

only way I knew learn to live day to day.,, 
shortly after

how to do it." 
and placed"There are 

Purvis Short Smith in psy­

plenty of ways to chiatric care.
commit suicide, director of player programs 
but I thnught that would trn the leac;t painful because I was already in pain from the inside. There was no rrned to have it from the out­side." 
The 19-year-old. who never played or ernn practiced with the Mavericks after being signed Nov. 2. c;aid he wac;n't sure what to think when he awoke in a hospital. 
"Part of me was like, 'I should've died, I should've gone, I don't belong here,' and part of me was like. 'Well, God gave you another chance, so make the bfist ofit,"' he said. 
But he didn't. Smith returned to Chicago, his hometown, in early December and got into trouble with police on consecu­tive days. 
"I belonged 
there becausp 
I needed to find mvself." he said. "I didn't want t~ hurt anybody or me." 
Smith has beeu living in Houston for about two weeks and is under the watchful eye of Purvis Short, a former NBA play­er who is now director of player programs for the players' union. 
"Basketball will take care of itself, but you have to learn to live day to day. That's what we're helping him with," Short said. "Leon is doing tremendous. We're all very proud of him." 
Smith is living in an apartment and working out at the same gym where the Houston Rockets train. 
"I want to play," Smith said. 'Tm really ready to take on responsibility now." 
Union chief Hillv Hunter is negotiating for s"mith to be released from his three-year, $1.45 million contract with the Maverir:ks, which would make him a free agent. 
"Hopefully within the next week we should have an agree­ment in place," Short said. 
San Antonio madfl the 6-foot­10, 235-pound forward the final pick iu the first round, then trad­ed him to Dallas. 
The two sides squabbled from the beginning. 
The Mavericks wanted Smith to start in a developmental league, but he refused and later forced them to sign him on open­ing day. 
His troubles erupted less than two weeks later. He was sus­pended indefinitely in December. 
Critics have accused the team uf not doing enough to ease the transition into the NBA for Smith, who was raised as a ward of Illinois after being estranged from his parents at age 5. 
Smith said he's not angry with lhe Mavericks. 
"I don't think they handled certain situaLions right." he said, "but I don't blame them because I couldn't handle myself' back then." 
Smith said he still would con­sider playing for the Mavericks because "that's the team that traded for me." 
''I've sinned a lot and I'm struggling every day to get bet­ter," Smith said. "I want to be able to just play ball and really get away from all the other stuff." 

NFL 
Rams kicker ready for 
NFC Championship 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Just like the regular play­ers, Jeff Wilkins is deter­mined to play with pain. 
The Rams' kickl'r ignored the tendonitis in his left knee and booted s1weral 50­yarders indoors Thursday, pronouncing himself fine for Sunday's NFC r:hampionship game. 
Wilkins' plant leg was shaky last week, and he abandoned form on a 42-yard field goal attempt that was wobbly and wide right. On Thursday. the form was back. 
"It hurts. and it's going to hurt, and I guess I've accept­ed it, whereas in the past we've tried to keflp it from hurting," Wilkins said. "It went pretty good, so I'm play­ing." 
Coach Dick Verrncil didn't 
think Wilkins' range would 
be affer:tcd. 
"His leg bothered him. but he kicked well anyway," Vermeil said. "Just like most players at most positions that play a little banged up and bruised, he's determined to kick." 
Wilkins knows it may be a busy day, since the Rams are the No. 1 offense in the NFL. They scored seven touch­downs against the Minnesota Vikings to reach this game against Tampa Bay. 
"Unless that thing ruptures, I think I'll be able to kick as many extra points as we need." he said. "If we score 10, that'd be great." 
The n~ws means Nick Lowery, 43, probably stays retired. Lowery, who hasn't kicked since 1996, tried out Tuesday and was· Vermeil's choice in case Wilkins couldn't go. 
Wilkins said Monday was the only day he was worried. But he didn't mind the Rams bringing in Lowery and two other kickers. 
"If it was in the middle of the year. you never want anybody coming in to take your job," Wilkins said. "I kind of wanted them to have somebody in mind, yet still give the opportunity to give it a go if I could." 
The news also was good for free safety Keith Lyle, who'll likely return after missing eight games with a bruised nerve in his left shoulder­neck area. 
Lyle, a Pro Bowl second alternate despite missing nearly half the season, was upgraded from questionable to probable on Thursday. Vermeil said Lyle likely will play in nickel coverage. 
"I think the doctor has more or less left it up to Keith," Vermeil said. "I don't think he's 100 percent, but I think he can play." 

Get out ofthe cold, and warm yourselfup with some hot coffee and snacks as you relax and listen to a local five piece Blues/Jazz band. 
SATURDAY, JANUARY 22 
8:00 PM -10:00 PM 
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER BALLROOM 
FREIFDR IVIRYDIII! 


Entertainment Provided by the Pat Heiden Quintet. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, J::inuary 21, 2000 
FENCING 

Irish fencers prepare for life after '99 season 
By MIKE CONNOLLY l\ssocime Sports Editor 
For lhP first time in four yP.ars. the Irish fencers begin a season without All-Americans Sara Walsh. Myriah Brown, Luke LaValle and Nicole Mustilli on 1.hc roster. 
Even with the loss of so much talent in the Class of 1999, the fencing program has niloaded with the addition of several top recruits and improvement in the returning fencPrs. 
"We did lose some key players but we gained some new fresh­m(m that are taking up the slack," senior meu's sabre captaiu Clay Morton said. "The playP-rs that were on the team last year arc improving and making up for the loss of those players." 
The Irish get their first NCAA test this weekend when thev trav­el to NPw York to take on fflncing puwers Columbia, Stanford and St John's. The Irish will also face Vassar, and NYU. Team cohesion has been stressed in the olT sea­son and the team is a tighter unit. according to women's foil captain Magda Krol. 
''We have tried to regroup and reorganize and clean out our fencing program to use the talent we have now in a better environ­ment," she said. "I think the team is really together and more understanding of each other." 
The mfln's team returns three NCAA.-quali!)ing foncers from last year and is bolstered by the addi­tion of many strong freshmen. 
Once again the men's sabre team is the best in the country. Even v.ith the loss of 1998 nation­al champion Lavalle, the team is still very deep. First team All­American Gabor Szelle returns to the strip after a successful fresh­man year that saw him finish sec­ond at the NCAA championship. 
Szelle is currently ranked 15th among world junior sabremen. With Keith Smart. last year's champion from St. John's, gradu­ated, Szelle is considered a front­runner for the national title. 
Fellow sophomore Andre Crompton is strong fencer and is currently rank.ed 15th in the national senior rankings and eighth among junior sabremen. Hot on his heels in the rankings is freshman Matt Fabricant who is 17th in the senior ranking and 9th in the juniors. 
Rounding out the sabre squad is junior Andrzej Bednarski who returns to the team alter taking his sophomore year off. Bednarski is currently ranked 19th among senior sabremen in the U.S. 
The Irish will rely on the talent and experience of the sabre team, especially early in the season when the other younger squads are still improving. 
"We are probably the most well rounded and deepest sabre squad in the country," Morton said. "We will be trying to win every bout in order to give the othel' squads who anrn't as deep a liltle sup­port. Wfl will hP carrying the team a bit but not much." 
The sabremen face two tough challenges this weekend in Stanford's David La\'alle and Columbia·s Patrick Durkan ­both qualified for the NCAA tour­narmmL last year, 
Thi> mPn's· cp(•e tl'f.1m is also tal­ented and experience -return­ing two NC/\/\ qualiliurs in sopho­more Brian (asas and senior cap­tain James Gaither. The addition of freshman Jan Viviani has added competition to the squad as he has defeated many of his tE'ammates in practke. 
"l le is a real good kid und an awesome fencer," Gaither said. ''He is a real asset to the team.'' 
The men's foil squad is the only men's squad without a returning NCAA-qualifier. The Irish will haYe to do without last year's NCAA competitors. Stephane Auriol graduated and Chas Hayes left the learn. The squad does return its wins leader from last y0ar in sophomore St.eve Mautone. 
Thr, squad also is holstered by the addition of two stellnr fresh­men in Forest Walton and Ozren Dehic. Walton is rankf'<l 32n<l among C.S. juniors while Debic is 183rd in world senior standings, 
The women's side is lf'ss f'Xpf'r.i­euced than the men's hut still fea­turns some exciting fencers. Krol, who won an epPe national cham­pionship as a freshman and earned thre.e ;\II-American let­ters, has switched from epee to foil to strengthen the team. Although she fpncPd foi I bpforn coming to Notre Dame, the adjustment to foil has been tough. 
''lt was bard but I think I havo adjusted all right," Krol said. "I have fenc:cd foil for Canada before and last year l was still getting some foil Jessous, so h is not like l am starting from scratch. It was mostly a mental adjustment." 
As the foil captain, she [acP-s the daunting task of rebuilding a squad Lhat losl 1.wo four-Lime All­Americans in Walsh and Hrown an<l a solid captain in Nicole Paulina. Heturning seniors are playing a bigger role this year and freshman Liza Boutsikaris has been especially impressive. 


"!Senior! Aimef' Kalogera and two senior walk-ons -Kolly Orsi and Liz Dailev -have reallv stPppied up heciiusc women's foil has shrunk so much," Krol ::mid. "Even with t.he addition of Liza, the seniors havo definitely st!'lpped up and showed progress." 
Boutsikaris is currmtly ranked 59th among senior foilists and the 17th bflst. American junior. With Kro] switching from cpcc to foil and the graduation of' Mustilli, the women's cpe<' squad is also rebuilding. • 
Two froshmnn. Meagan Call and Anna Carnick will probably be thti top fomale epneists for the Irish this year. Both Call and Carnick arc top :rn U.S. junior fencers. For the l'irsl lime in NC/\A history, women will com­pete in sabre. Captain Carianne McCullough leads the Irish team. 
\,\'hilc most of the squad is made up of walk-ons, freshman Natalia Masur, who is ranked 15th among American junior sabrcwomen, brings a lot of expe­rience to the team despite her youth. 

Cro~~ Country ~ki Rental~ 
rental sclhedule"ijl~ 

monday-frmday "'':' ,}t_, ;:,)O:Oa~ -J:OOpm Saturday/ Sunday.~~; ·n:OOi,ll-4:00pm 
.·-\\,y,,• ,' .... .:;.·.1'~" 
fees 
location 


\ ,.-::• .
can &3l-642S· \. 
* Rentals not auaUable on January 24, 26, 31 & Febraury 2 

friday, January 21, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
week," said Dunlop. "They have a very good offense.

Hockey 
Their power play is very good. 

continued from page 28 We have been concentrating on our penalty kill, but they 
Duslrn.bek also has coniiuued his strong play this season with a gamP-winning goal against Lak,· Superior State. and IP.ads thH Irish in CCIIA points with lhnrn goals and six assists. lie has also had f'uur points in the last five games 
The Irish am also counting on their defr111se for help in the ol'fonsive zone. Freshrn an Evan Nielsen has two goals and three assists in the last nirw games, while Sean Snyforth and Sean Molina appeared to be headed for carrer bests in points this sea­sou. 
Tyson fraser recorded his SOlh career point with an assist against liMASS earlier this yrar. 
"We have been working on special teams mostly this past are al:rn very good short­handed. They have scored a lot ,:vhen they arc shorthand­ed. 

The defensive play of the Irish has helped freshman goaltender Tony Zasowski to rank sevPnth in the league in goals-against average. 
Uis current mark of 2.47 is better than the Irish record set by Forrest Karr last sea­son. 

The defense will bn in focus as Western Michigan brings their fourth-ranked offense into the series, while ranked second in power µlay percent­age. Junior center David Gove is the CCHA's third-leading scorer (20G-l 1A) while sopho­more center Mike Bishai is tied for 12th on the CCHA scoring charts (19G-10Al. ­
MARY CALASHffhe Observer 

Ryan Dolder battles for a loose puck against Alaska-Fairbanks. The Irish hope that a victory
Please Recycle The Observer. 
over the Broncos will turn their season around. 

Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 
Assistant Rector 
for University Residence Halls 
Tuesday, January 25th 6:30 -7:30 p.n1. Faculty Dining Rootn 
(Upper Level-South Dining Hall) 
For Information Call: Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-5550 
Light refreshments served 
Bball 
continued from page 28 
rebounder and a good scor­er," Carroll said. "So we're going to concentrate on him." 
Senior guard Kellii Taylor poses a defensive challenge for Notre Dame, as he ranks third on Pittsburgh's all-time steal list. Both Jarrett Lockhart and Chris Seabrooks are averaging double digits for the Panthers. 
The Panthers' top returning player, senior forward Isaac Hawkins, is red-shirting the season after breaking his right tibia during the presea­son. 
Notre Dame sophomore sen­sation Troy Murphy is averag­ing just under 25 points per game and nearly 11 rebounds. Murphy is one of 30 finalists for the Wooden Award, an honor handed out to the top college basketball player each year. 
Carroll and sophomore for­ward David Graves also aver­age more than ten points per game. Dillon is dishing off six assists per outing for the Irish. 
"They are a team that is a 
..
good team," Doherty said of Pittsburgh. "They had a good record going into the Big East. They did hang tight with Syracuse, and probably deserved to win that game. They're a pretty confident team, and they're hungry for a win." 
Support your teams. Attend their games. 

r-·­
--~----. 

page 24 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 21, 2000 
d 
.!: 
l 

We're I a textbook 
t ­
e~xample of wh)i the Internet 


is so handy. 
We realize we don't have to waste your ,ma.. Internet. Let's iust say that at 
-'"'~~

.. ~,-. 
VarsityBooks.com we've made the most of it. Not only ca~~e up to 40% on 

also receive them in just one to three business days. All on a Web site that's co •·· tely reliable and secure. What more do you need to know? 
SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS. 
Savings off distributor's suggested price. Books delivered in no more than three business days. Some restrictions apply. See site for details. 


Friday, January 21, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish ride 10-game winning streak into Miami 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Three Domers lead 
U.S.A to Australian Cup 
MIKE HARRIS/The Observer Niele Ivey, shown here against Butler, leads the Irish this weekend against the Hurricanes as the Irish try to maintain their top 5 ranking. 
TUESDAY 
JAN.25 
7:30p.m. LITTLE THEATRE 

cinema@thesnite 
uKUBRICK'S HAUNTING FINAL MASTERPIECE. VIVID, BRILLIANT, UNFORGfflABLE." 
llicbatd Schidc.t, IIME MAGAZINE 

F . at. 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. 

presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/---cothweb 
Coming Soon: Casablanca Mon. 7p. m. 
By KERRY SMITH 
Assistant SpoltS Editor 

When the Irish Lra,el to Miami to take on the Hurricanes Saturday, they will try to hand onto their perfC'ct Rig East record and maintain the highest national ranking in school history. 
Grabbing the fifth spot in the Associated Press poll in the midst of an impressive 10-game winning streak. the Irish show no signs of slowing as they head full throttle into the second half uf the regular season. 
"We're not feeling tno much pressure at the Lop -it's more that we're proud of where we are," said forward Meaghan Leahy. "We'rn taking each game seriously and using it to prepare for the Dig East tournament and the NCA~s at the end of the season." 
Led by All-American candidate Ruth Riley under the basket and guards Niele [vey and Alicia llatay, the Irish have been a strong presence on the court defensively and a potent force on offense. 
Ratay has proven to he a big menace, leading the Irish in scoring vvith more than 15 points a game. Shooting at 50 pr~rcent from behind the arcb, Ratay is a threat from anvwhere on the court. 
Riley follows closely behind on the scor­ing chart and has racked up 49 blocked shots while lPading the squad in rebound­ing to head the defensive effort. With 11 games left in the regular season, Riley is on par to match the 101 blocks she deliv­ered last season -the third most by any NCAA player in the '98-'99 season. 
lvey, who averages just more than 11 points per game, has proven to be a big playmaker on the court. Leading the squad with 114 assists -almost three times as many as any other Irish player ­Ivey's presence has been an asset to Notre Dame all season. 
Since beginning their winning streak with a victory over :vlichigan State, the lrish have handed their opponents losses by big margins -the squad has won nine of 10 of their last games by at least 15 points. 
"Our team has really come together in the last 10 games," Meaghan Leahy said. "We know what needs to get dorn~ and you can foel the excitement and see it on the court when we play. We're not as hesitant as we were at the beginning of tlrn season, esper.ially on defonse." 
Tho Hurricanes will have an opportunity to boost their seventh-place Big East rank­ing if they can upend the Irish. 
"Miami is very athletic. They crash the boards well and can rebound so we are going to need to box out," said Leahy. "We have to go there mentally ready to play in order to win. Even though we're undefeat­ed in the conference we keep focused on each game." 
At 8-7 on the s1mson, Miami has strug­gled to maintain a winning record. Alternating between wins and losses for the last 10 games, the Hurricanes will need a strong performance by their fresh­man keep the pattern alive with a win. 
Fri>shman starter Alicia Hartlaub leads the Hurricanes in conference play. The forward recorded her third straight Big East double-double with 16 points and 10 rebounds in Miami's loss to Georgetown on Wednesday. 
At 2-2 in the conference, the Hurricanes have struggled off the bench all season. With little depth, they must rely on their starters for the majority of their points. In the loss to Georgetown, the Miami starters scored all but eight of the team's 61 points. 
The Irish hold a 5-1 record against the Hurricanes in regular season play. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Spores Editor 
Three lrish women's soccer stand­outs filled some pretty big shoes earli­er this month, stepping in for stars of the 1999 Women's World Cup team, who sat out the Australia Cup because of salary disputes with U.S.A. Soccer. 
With star players like ~ia Hamm and Kate Sobrero at home in the U.S., Irish stars Jenny Streiffer, LaKeysia Beene and Kelly Lindsey played key roles as the U.S. National Team com­piled a 2-0-1 record and won the Cup. 
Thev showed the world that the future· of women's soccer was just as bright as the present was a goal of the team, Streiffer said. 
"It was a weird situation because we didn't have much pressure and we weren't expected to do very well," she said. "We wanted to show that the future of women's soccer is strong." 
Streiffer scored two goals and added two assists while Lindsey and Beene led a defense that allowed just two goals. The national team coaches had plenty of opportunities to evalu­ate the talent uf the Irish players; Streiffer played 195 minutes at for­ward, and Beene and Lindsey played every minute at goalkeeper and defensive back, respectively. 
"[The coaches] are ahvays evaluat­ing you," Streiffor said. "So it was just another opportunity to show them how yuu can play." 
The U.S. coaches were especia11y impressed with 13eene's play. 
"Several players made tremendous individual impacts on the games -LaKeysia Beene came up big when she needed to, and overall it was a great team win," co-coach Jay Hoffman told the Associated Press. 
In the opening game, Streiffer scored two goals and assisted on another as the U.S. cruised to an easy 8-1 victory over the Czech Republic. 
In the second game, Beene picked up a shutout as the U.S. tied Sweden 0-0. Beene gave credit to the defense. 
"The defense was solid all game," she said in a prepared statement, "They really stuck into tackles and won most of the air balls, which was very important against Sweden because they have some big players. I couldn't be more confident in the defense." 
The Americans got back in the win column with a 3-1 win over the Australians. Since the C.S. o.u.t.-scored its opponents by a nine-point margin and Sweden out-scored its opponents by just four goals, the U.S. won the Cup. 
Streiffer said the competition was similar to teams she faced last sum­mPr as a member of the Nordic Cup­winning, U.S. Under-21 team. 
"The team's we played weren't really at their peaks right now," she said. "They were basically equivalent to the U-21 teams we played this summer." 
The chance to compete with her Irish teammates again was one of the most enjoyable parts of the tourna­.. ment, Streiffer said. 
"I've played with Keysia a lot on those types of teams. She is always great and performs so well. I always have a lot of confidence in her," Streiffer said. "It was great to see Kelly playing. I was great to have them around. lt helps you relax." 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 21, 2000 
TRACK 
Notre Dame opens year indoors 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sporrs Ediror 
With five All-Americans 

returning after a 1999 season which saw men's and women's _squads turn .in best-f"ver Hig East conference finishes, the Notre Dame track teams are aiming for the top of' the confer­
ence in 2000. 
"WP< told the kids today that 
our main goal we have is to win 
Big East indoors and Big East 
outdoors." said head track and 
field coach Joe Piane. "That's 
not to sav that we don't want 1.o 
get kids ·to NCAAs, but our big 
goal is Big East 
'The men's strengths are that 
we have some outstanding indi­
viduals iu both Lhe field evenl., 
and the sprints," Piane said. 
"The women are going to be 
pretty solid all the way 
through." 
The Irish kick off their season 
today with a home meet against 
1\ifichigan State, Ball State and 
Western Michigan. 
"We've hoen working a long 
time and you go all the way 
through the fall semester," field 
events coach Scott Winsor said. 
"It's a long hard workout 
process without competing. 
Evervone's excited about start­
ing to compete." 
The Irish will use this quad­
rangular to test their fitness 
level and to see how prepared 
they are for the Big East meet 
next month. 
"Really this meet is sort of a 
benchmark to see where we're 
at," sprints coach John Millar 
said. "It's hard to really get a 
feel for where we're at until we 
have a meet." 
Long distance runners Ryan 
Shay and Alison Klemmer, mid­
dle distance runner Antonio 
Arce, sprinter and long jumper 
Marshaun West. and high 
jumper Jennifer Engelhardt 
were All-Americans a year ago 
and will lead the Irish this sea­
son. 
"Basical1y again this year," 
Engelhardt said, "we just have 
a great opportunity with the 
incoming freshme11 to really 
win the Big East. We have a lot 
of added depth. The Big East is 
the pinnacle of our seasoff" 
Playing the field 
Engelhardt. who serves as 
Tax 
one of two women's team cap­tains this year, placed ninth at the NCAA Indoor Championships in addition to winning the Big East Outdoor Championships. 
Besides Engelhardt, Winsor will look to freshmen Tamoisha King in the long jump and Jainie Volkmer in the pole vatilt and triple jump. 
West comes off of a standout season in which he was named the Big East Conference's most outstanding track performer. He captured indoor All-America honors in the long jump, plac­ing sixth with a 24-foot-10 mark. 
West also won the 200-meter race at the Big East Indoor and Outdoor Championships. 
This season West is concen­trating on matching and sur­passing his efforts from '99. 
"Of course as a team, we'd like to win the Big East indoors and outdoors since we wore so close last year," West said. "I think we're evf'n a little bit bet­ter than we were last year. I look to break the 200 meters record for Notre Dame indoors, and look to go back to nationals both indoor and outdoor." 
The Irish lost All-American 
pole vaulter Mike Brow_o to 
graduation and high jumper 
Andrew Cooper for the season. 
"Points that we got from Mike 
Brown winning we're trying to 
get through depth now," Winsor 
said. "Andrew Cooper was real­
ly coming along and looking like 
he was going to be our number 
one high jumper, so that defi­
nitely hurt. but hopefully Quill 
Redwine can fill in for Andrew 
and we've also got Nick Setta. 
Hopefully those two guys can 
fill in and get the job done." 
For throwers, Notre Dame 
will rely on Dore OeBartolo, 
who recorded an NCAA provi­
sional mark in the discus in 
1999. 
On the men's side, senior 
Matt Thompson returns as the 
Irish record holder in the 35­
pound weight throw. 
Sprinting full-speed ahead 
West, senior Chris Cochran and junior Terry Wray will anchor the men's sprints team. Cochran was the Big East out­door champion in the 400­meter run last year. 
All three runners competed on Notre Dame's 1,600-meter relay team that placed third at the Big East outdoor champi­onships. 
"The main goal for track is the overall team championship indoors and outdoors at the Big East," Cochran said, "And per­sonally trying to do all that I can to help us do that. I don't think the other teams in the conference gained much on us." 
For the women, sophomore Liz Grow is the most successful veteran. 
She ran the fastest indoor team for the Irish last year in the 60 meters, 200 meters and 400 meters. 
King and fellow freshman Kymia Love also have strong potential coming out of high school. 
"I think mainly for the team to win Big East is a big goal of mine, and to hopefully qualify for nationals," Grow said. "I feel like rm more experienced just because of the season I had last year. Losing in nationals helped me a lot in terms of experi­ence." 
Going the distance 
Returning All-Americans Shay and Klemmer will pace the distance squads, although the women will have to make up for the loss of JoAnna Deeter. 
Neither Shay nor Klemmer 
will compete tonight. Seniors 
Patty Rice and Arce will be 
strong at the middle distance. 
"We're not necessarily run­
ning people in their best events 
this weekend," Connelly said. 
"In terms of track fitness, Alison 
may be in better shape than 
ever." 
Distance coach Tim Connelly 
has placed improvement at the 
top of his priority list. 
"J think overall we want to 
contrnue to improve," Connelly 
said. "We made some big steps 
last year, especially on the con­
ference level. Probablv the 
biggest improvement ancl she 
showed this during cross coun­
try. was Chrissy Kuenster. She's 
gone from a girl who struggled 
to be on the team to being one 
of our better kids." 
Tonight's meet is the first of 
three indoor invitations at home 
for the Irish this season. 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Injured Irish test skills against No. 26 Huskies 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
With as many as three top players out with injuries, the Notre Dame men's tennis team will test its foundation this weekend against the 26th­ranked Washington Huskies at the Ice Volleys in Minneapolis. 
"It will be tough in the beginning of the season," senior Hyan Sachire said. "But, hopefully, some of tho younger guys will be able to contribute and get some experience." 
Junior Mark Overdevest will not make the trip because of possible torn cartilage in his shoulder. Coach Bobby Bayliss said Overdevest will be missed, but the team can com­pensate. 
"[Losing Overdevest] is a big loss," Bayliss said. "In addition to being a good player, he was one of our hardest workers. However, I feel we have more depth than in years past and can CTI! in the gaps." 
Junior Matt Daly and sopho­more Javier Taborga are also questionable, according to Bayliss. If either is unable to play, a number of very capable 
freshman  can  step up  and  
play, Bayliss said.  
"Each  [freshman]  has  

demonstrated the ability to get the job done," he explained. Because of the injuries, the double's pairing was still up in the air Thursday afternoon. 
Washington will surely test Notre Dame, ranked 22nd of 75 teams by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association. The Irish nearly won the NCAA Championships last season and are 2-0 this season. 
"Washington is a tough first round opponent," Bayliss explained. "We'll take the matches one at a time." 
Sachire agrees it will be tough, but he believes the team is ready. 
''We're looking forward to this weekend," he said. "We've been back playing each other, but we're all itching to face someone else. I think all the teams am comparable. It should be a good weekend." 
Sachiro will undoubtedly be a team leader again, ranking 14th in singles and a two-time All-American. Senior Trent Miller will return as Sachire's doubles partner sometime this season. The pair went 14-6 at No. 2 doubles their freshman year. 
This season will be tough for the Irish, with or without injuries. They are scheduled to face at least 12 ranked oppo­nents including No. 4 Duke, No. 11 Illinois and No.17 Texas. 
Bayliss looks forward to this 
challenge and has faith that 
his team can handle it. 
"One great thing about coaching and playing sports is learning how to overcome adversity," he said. 


info, 


Annual March for Life 
toll-free. 

Can't make it to Washington for the National March for Life, but you still want to voice your support for a greater respect for life in our society? 
Tax questions? 

Please join the local community for a peaceful, prayerful demonstration outside 
Call TeleTax 

the Federal Courthouse in South Bend. Together we can change hearts and minds. 
for recorded 

Monday January 24, 2000, Noon to 1:00 p.m.
information 

Meet on the corner of Jefferson and Main Street downtown. Signs will be provided -or you can bring your own. 
on about 
150 tax topics, 
Questions? Call 232-LIFE (5433) 
24 hours a day. 

Sponsored by St. Joseph County Right to Life and ND/SMC Right to Life 

---·---------w: 

Friday, January 21, 2000 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
!F' 'Tl-fl~ WHO!..£ AMt3€R 
1t,IN6 IS ~lt,Ju\lJE, '(Ov 
DO'wN T~I~ M\.lu-l, TtlEN f"\J."f81"; 'I: (AN lu:t..P 
Fox TROT 
www.foxtrot.com 
The Observer . TODAY 
page 27 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
N 6N6 "(oU f12 For&. TH 
&oo 

Neat new building, same ol' bookstore. 
beam.1@nd.edu 

HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Emma Lee Bunton, Michael 
Hutchence, Geena Davis, Richie 
Havens, Steve Reeves, Placido 
Domingo, Hakeem Olajuwon 
Happy Birthday: Your confidence 
and savvy will help you accomplish 
all that you set out to do. You will 
pick up valuable information just by 
watching and observing others. You 
will learn quickly if you attend semi­
nars or travel. You will be open and 
receptive to others ideas and good at 
coordinating what will and won't 
work. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You 
may cause grief at home if you don't 
control your erratic behavior. Temper 
tantrums will be directed toward in­
laws. Try to keep busy. Don't get 
worked up about your concerns. 
00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Family members may not be too receptive today. Don't push your luck; just stay out of the way. This is not the best day to confide in any­one. Try to sort things out yourself. 
00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You're in a spending mood, so be sure to leave your credit cards at home and take only the cash you can afford to part with. You can make new friends if you try new forms of social activity. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You need time to yourself. Re-evaluate your situation and try to come up with ways to make things better. You might want to talk to someone you trust about your personal relationship. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can expect to have problems with authority figures. Stick to your origi­nal plans, but be somewhat secretive about them. Don't let others put 
VERTICAL HORIZON AND STROKE 9 
All of campus is invited to attend 
... 

the concert committee meeting Tuesday at 5:30 in 201 Lafortune to help plan the upcoming concert. 
AMERICAN BEAUTY 
TONIGHT 8 & 10:30pm Tomorrow 8 & 10:30pm 101 DeBartolo (no food or drink allowed) $2 admission 
EUGENIA LAST 
demands on you or curtail your freedom. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23•Sept. 22): Make your plans carefully. You are prone to get confused about appointments. Your impatience will be noticeable, and you must make every effort to control your temper. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make major financial gains by using your intuitive senses. Talk to your personal financial adviser or a good friend who does well with invest­ments before parting with cash. 
0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Problems with your emotional part• ner will hold you back. Put your personal dilemmas on the back burner and concentrate on getting ahead professional!y. Be firm in your decisions. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can get others to do things for you if you use your diplomatic charm. Your colorful storytelling ability will enable you to get children to listen and do what you want. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Infatuations are likely. You must use discrimination in your personal deal­ings and refrain from falling all over someone who you think feels the same way you do. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan_ 20-Feb. 18): Romantic encounters may very well develop through work relationships. Take care of your health. Minor ail­ments are likely and will cause set­backs in your career objectives. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will find group functions tiring. Don't take on too much or make unrealistic promises. Organize your­self in order to make the most of your day. 000 
1'IE S1<:.C.l::ST o~'>,Al~ °1'0 (.O~\TMEllT I":, ,~l,.T. 
1!1'1 e.1.1\t.Oll-16 A t.A~,Tll-JO (.m,1Hl)£t.l(.£ OM\;. lAN 
· ~ST!l\1!>1.1>1\ '1"1\£ ,11-un 
~~R'i ~ A CE.i.P ,\N f>~Vl''rFVL REL~ION.S 1111" 
Oaffl8iff~bl'Untvma1Press$)flt'.icale 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
-


CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE v A 1 T . c+;.;.+,~;.,. 8 E L 
..,. 
F O R E D G E A L -,-+-,,+,-,+,,,. E E P 
wO 
A V U T O 
H A u 
--+--+-A-+-N+G~ 
=t-=-t,~~or.::+:-r.:-t-;i 

i-;..;.,i-;..;.ii.-::4~~• 
G u y 
E r A 
D E N 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

WELCOME BACK TO SCHOOL 
I •

., .. www.nd.edu/-sub
• 

45 Pound notes? 53 Kind of 47 Crude carrier concerto 48 Tiny part 55 It may come 
49 Unlawful before going firing? 
57 Eggs 50 Fan's noise 
59 The first of 51 Provide (for) several? 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
54 Overexercising result 56 Where Mark Twain is buried 
58 Some people are convicted in it 
60 1998 "Les Miserables" star 61 They may arouse a farmer 62 Courses, in combinations 63 Sloughs 64 Unlike 63-Across 
DOWN 
1 Dickens 2 Go around 3 Pillboxes and 
such 4 Court position: Abbr. 5 "Make !" 
(birthday cry) 6 Substance 7 Involve 
8 Like a medusa 
9 Globetrotters founder Saperstein 1 O Forget for years? 11 Bridle path 12 Put to rest 13 QB O'Donnell 15 One who takes inventory? 21 Pittance 
24 Only N.L. pitcher to win four Cy Young Awards 
26 Linking (up) 28 Appended 29 Deaf talk: Abbr. 30 Road that leads 
to Rome? 31 Dwellers on the 
Gulf of Finland 33 In three parts 34 System starter 35 Bled 41 Farfrom 
humility 43 Ricky Ricardo vis-a-vis Fred 
Mertz 

ACROSS 
1 It may be part of a club 4 Pet store purchase 
8 Bagpiper's wear 14 Classic object of blame-shifting 
16 Glenn Miller protege Ray 17 Salon worker 18 Indian's 
neighbor 19 Narc's find, perhaps 
20 Koln or NGmberg 22 Mideast money 23 Deep-six 25 Way to storm off 27 Proscholastic org. 
28" 
Restaurant' 
29 Swore 
32 Word after sand or sound 36 Gent 37 Narc's find, perhaps 38 The Eagle that landed 39 Satellite dish producer 40 Set for the nursery 42 One may be limited 44 Skilled in 46 Big inits. in video games 
47 Reagan Supreme Court nominee 
49 1973 resignee 
51 Order 
52 Going to get 


w
.... ozw -¥ 

Story 'bout a Hurricane 
The women's basketball team travels to Coral Gables, Fla. Saturday to 
take on Big East
PORTS 

rival Miami. 
page 26 
OTHE 

page 28 BSERVER 


A Decade Ago 
The decade is over ... It's 2000 at last. So let's take some time to look back at our past. 
Sports have changed a ton in 10 short vears . 
. M u Ch more than you think more than it appears. Let's try to remem­ber those times if we can, And look back to 1990 when the 90's began. On top of the baseball world were those spend-happy A's, As the last-place Yanks and Braves waited for better days. If I told you that a division winner was the team by the Bay, You'd think San Francisco ... Tampa -no way. St. Louis was still mourning the loss of its football team, And the Jaguars existed only in Jacksonville's dreams. The Reds were Nasty, the Pistons were bad. KG and Kobe were just learning to add. The Super Bowl was less important than the NFC title game, And the Clippers still stunk .. . some things stay the same. MJ hadn't retired once, let alone twice. The Super Bowl was domi­nated by Montana and Rice. Bo still knew Diddley, the Great One still reigned, And OJ's rep had been nei­ther tarnished nor stained. A Tiger was still a large, striped cat, And Mitchell and Canseco wern feared at the bat. Seattle was wowed by Jr. ­a sophomore sensation, And nothing was more of an oxymoron than Notre Dame on probation. The Big Tuna coached the other team in New York, And the Bulls had yet to pop a champagne cork. In the NHL, the Oilers pre­vailed, While Charlie llustle was convicted, sentenced and jailed. College basketball's most dominant player called himself the L-Train, While the world was prepar­ing for the Olympics in Spain. Neither Irvin nor Phillips nor Moss had broken the law, And Monday nights were f'or 

see CHURNEY/page 16 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Doherty happy for return of students 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sports Ediwr 
Head basketball coach Matt Doherty is glad to be homo, and he's glad the stu­dents are finally home too, as the Irish prepare to host Pittsburgh Saturday. 
"The students are very important to us, and the energy that they were giving us in the Joyce Center," Dohflrty said: "We missed them during the break." 
The Irish played their last two games on the road, dropping the first on Sunday to No. 6 Syracuse 80-57 and another on Tuesday to Rutgers 76-51. 
"Down at Rutgers, we just got outplayed, and out-hus­tled," senior point guard Jimmy Dillon said. "Rarely does our team get outplayed out there. We need to get back on track. We had a couple big wins to start off the Big East, and then we had a couple tough losses. We need to get out there and strike back against Pittsburgh." 
At Rutgers, Notre Dame shot only 30 percent from the field and was out­rebounded 43-31. The Irish (11-7, 2-2} must improve on 
both counts to  score  the  
home  victory  over  the  
Panthers (8-7, 7-5}.  
"It's  not  so  much  the  

shooting as the execution of the offense," Doherty said. "It's more that we didn't get good shots, not that we didn't shoot well." 
The goal for the Irish is to get another run started. 


They had won seven straight games before the losses to Syrar.use; the only remain­ing undefeated team in Division I and Rutgers. 
"Right now, we're focusing on coming out and playing a lot of tough defense," fresh­man guard Matt Carroll said, "and playing with a lot of energy and a lot of inten­sity.'' 
Although Pittsburgh is just above .500, it played a close game against Syracuse, falling 82-7 2 in a game many thought Pittsburgh should have won. 
"They might not be at the top of the standings right now," Dillon said, "But we know that every team in the league has the opportunity to top any other team." 
Pittsburgh has a new coach at the helm in Ben Howland, who comes to the Panthers after a five-year stint at Northern Arizona. During that time, Howland turned his team around. They went 8-18 and 6-20 during his first two years, followed by three straight 21-win seasons with two post-season appearances. 
"They had a lot of success at Northern Arizona," Doherty said. "He's got them [the Panthers] playing hard. They're going to be good. If not this year, then next year." 
Pittsburgh's top threat is sophomore small forward Ricardo Greer, who aver­ages 18 points per game and 11 rebounds. 
JEFF HSUfThe Obseiver 
"We know he's a good 

David Graves, shown here against Vanderbilt, and the Irish look to stop their losing streak against the Pitt Panthers on Saturday.
see BBALL/page 23 
HOCKEY 

ND looks to kick losing skid against Broncos 
. Irish must turn season around in 12 games 
By MATT OLIVA Sports Writer 
With only 12 games remaining in Notre Dame's regular season schedule, the Irish are looking to improve their playoff' position starting with this weekend's home series against Western Michigan. 
The Irish (8-13-5 overall) are tied with Nebraska­Omaha and Miami for sev­enth-place in the standings 

with a 5-7 -4 CCHA record, holding the tie-breaker advantage over Miami with two more games to play against UNO. Western '.\1ichigan (8-10-2, 7-7-2) is currently ranked in the fifth and last home-ice playoff position. 
Friday night's match-up will be the first time that the Irish and the Broncos have met since 1998. The Irish won that contest 9-5, and have played 40 CCIIA games against other oµponents since. 
The Broncos hold a series edge of 26-13-2 overall, but the Irish have gone 5-3-1 against the Broncos over the last three seasons. During this time the Irish have aver­aged 3.6 goals per game, including a 17-8 scoring edge last season (7-1, 1-2, 9-5}. Irish captain Ben Simon is the team's career leader in points scored against WMU with two goals and 10 assists. 
With a pair of victories this weekend, the Irish can help their playoff positioning, while ruining the Broncos' chances in the process. Western Michigan is tied for fifth-place with Ferris State. but the two teams are only two points ahead of the Irish. A successful weekend could push the Irish ahead of the Broncos in the standings. 
"This is a huge series for us," said center Connor Dunlop. "There are five or six teams all within a few points of each other. This series could really boost us and take us up to fourth place. The rest of our games this season will be really important for the playoffs." 
Notre Dame will look to several key players to lead them in its push for the play­offs. 
Junior right wing Ryan Dolder has 10 points in the last 12 games and is the lead­ing scorer for the Irish with 16 points overall. Senior Joe 
see HOCKEY/page 23 

-vs. Western Michigan vs. Pittsburgh 
Friday, 7:05 p.m. Saturday, noon 

at Hope College
SPORTS 
Saturday, 3 p.m.
ATA Men's Swimming 

at Miami 
Bill Ritter Invitational 

Saturday, 2 p.m, 
at Milwaukee
GLANCE 
Saturday, l O a.m. 






