To be or not to be
Cast your votes 
The Summer Shakespeare Festival 2000 will come 
Thursday
With the presidential primary elections Monday, 

to Notre Dame's Washington llall in
'J11e Observer explains the candidates' platforms. 

July and August. 
FEBRUARY 10, 

Scene . page 14-15
Election Pullout 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXX.111 NO. 80 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 
"We're not about to stop believing now. We're going to overcome this, and press on." 
Brian O'Donoghue presidential candidate 


O'Donoghue/Norton given two-day crunpaign suspension 

By LAURA ROMPF Associated News Editor 
In an 11-4 vote with seven abstentions, the Senate turned down an appeal from the Brian O'Donoghue/Brooke Norton ticket, which asked that its two-day campaign suspension from the Judicial Council be revoked. 
According to the Judicial Council, candidates O'Donoghue and Brooke Norton violated campaign rules when they appeared on a WVFI radio show Saturday. According to campaigning rules, candidates could not begin campaigning until mid­night on Monday. 
However, controversy arose in the Senate because of gray areas surrounding the defini­tion of campaigning. O'Donoghue and Norton did not realize that appearing on the radio was a violation of rules and thus their motives for the interview on WVFI were unclear. 
"Personally, knowing [O'Donoghue], I know he would never [purposefully I do anything in violation of the constitution," said Alumni Senator David Zachary. "However, ignorance of the law is not a defense." 
"The candidates made no efforts to solicit votes," junior .lay Smith, O'Donoghue and Norton's campaign manager,· said in a statement to the Senate. "They were engaged in a conversation on the radio about issues effecting the Notre Dame community. It is no different from you or I appearing on WVFI. If a dif­ference exists, it is because they are a known candidate, which they have no control over." 
According to the 
Council President. After a dis­cussion with her, he immedi­ately turned himself in for the violation. 
"Concessions are being made because [O'Donoghue) was honest and turned him­self in," Folks said. "He did not realize it wasn't allowed because it was not explicitly mentioned. I do not think his actions were malicious or even intentional, but this decision was made to be fair to other candidates." 
According 
to the 

Judicial  '7 do not think his  Judicial  
Council, the pair dis­cussed perti­nent cam­ actions were malicious or even intentional, but this decision was made to be  Council, the appearance on the radio violated the  
paign issues and because  fair to other candidates."  bylaw which states cam­ 
their names  paigning is  
appeared in  Kelly Folks  limited to  a  
T h e Observer on  Judicial Council president  specific peri­od deter- 
Friday  and  mined  by  

they affirmed their candidacy the Election Committee. The in the interview, their appear­penalty for campaigning out­ance on the show was as can­side the time period could be didates. as strict as a forfeiture of 
However, at the time, candidacy. O'Donoghue did not realize However, a gray arna exists the interview violated cam­in the definition of campaign­paign rules. When he became ing. The constitution states: aware that the appearance "Campaigning consists of any was a possible violation, he went to Kelly Folks, Judicial see SENATE/page 6 



Provost addresses Faculty Senate on increasing diversity 
By JOSHUA BOURGEOIS 
A,~isranr News Editor 
Univnrsity Provost Nathan Hatch addressed the faculty SetHtlt! Wednesday night on such issues as lack of niporting l'rom the Provost's Ortice, alTirmativc action in respect to students, faculty and staff and tht' creating of aradnmic inslitul!)s aud ceuters within the 
Univorsitv. 
Memb~rs of tlrn Faculty SPrHLte queried why llatcb's offift' has not published any reports summa­rizing the rec­ommendations of the Provost's Advisory Council !PACI to acade­mic priorities during his limo in the office. 
apologize for this," Hatch said. 
Hatch stated that the University is committed to diversifying its faculty and students without limit­ing themselves to set numbers or percentages. 
"We want to be proactive and creative [in attracting diverse stu­dents and faculty], but we do not try to set numeric goals," Hatch said. 
Hatch stated that within the last three years the number of women 
Former l'rovosl Timothy O'Mcara ing. 
stated that the PAC should publish Hatch commenled that the num­such a report at least once a year. ber of spousal hirings within the "The first thref~ [y11ars'J reports University has increased. He will lw out by spring, and again I noted that the CoHege of Science 
"Overall, spousal hiring is immemsely complicated. Howe{)er, it's one of the strategies used to maintain women faculty. " 
Nathan Hatch provost 

faculty raised from 16 percent to 19 percent, but said he nigrntted that the percentage of minority fac­ul tv remains at 12 percent. 
Coi1Hiding with the increas­ing diversity issue is the dis­cussion of facul­ty spousal hir­now has five couples among its faculty, and the Law School just hired its second couple within its faculty. 
Although spousal hiring contin­ues to be a success, Hatch stated that there are difficulties in find­ing and funding positions for per­spective faculty's spouses. 
"Overall. spousal hiring is immensely complicated. However, it's one of the strategies used to maintain women faculty," Hatch said. 
The Faculty Senate also asked the provost tn comment on faculty representation in the University governance. They said this issue was especially important in respect to the Fellows of the University's and Board of Trustees' rejection of the non-dis­crimination clause last year after the Faculty Senate and Academic Council voted to approve the clause. 
"I believe Notre Dame faculty have a lot of representatives throughout University gover­nance," Hatch said. 
I-latch noted the faculty's 
see HATCH/page 4 



page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, February 10, 2000 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Arm yourself with the facts 
With the approaching Cnited States presiden­tial elections at hand and my personal involve­ment with the media, I thought it would be appropriate if l addressed my beliefs regarding the role of media in relation to government. Let me state for lhe record, though. that I am n<'ithcr a Amanda Greco government ma,ior nor a vPry politically-minded pPr­
son. assistant Scene editur 
We Americans nnbracP our democracy and the fret>doms it affords us. I Iowt>ver. I find the idea of a representative democracy to be an oxy­moron. On a l0t:11.l levPI. it makP.s sens!':, though few people use their persuasive voice in the local govP.rnmP.nt. When was the last time you wrote your representative? Do you eYen know who your local representative is? This is a tool too often left in the drawer. People opt for rnform on a larger scale, where it seems unfeasible that one voice could realistically n~present millions of people. 
Accurate representation occurs when we elect a reprnsenlative whose stances we know. It often seems that people are confused when it comes to picking a candidate. Recently, a Chitago radio station had a call-in !'or vot1irs who thought they knew their preffere<l candi­date. The callers went to .,vww.selectsmartcom to enter their opinions on political issues and find what candidate fit thei1· beliefs. All of' the callers found that the candidate who they had intended to vote for was not the candidate that supported their belief's. 
This brings me to my next grudge with our so­called democracy. It is based on a huge fallacy: It assunws an educated public and then goes out of its way to deceive said public. The musl com­mon medium through which WA rec0ive infor­mation is the media. namely tp,Jevision and print. Howev0r. media is notorious for providing a sen­sationalized, biased representation of the facts (often persuaded by funding received from polit­ical groups). 
Example: I am a member of the National Hille Association and receive its magazine monthly. One of the main features is a section entitled "The Armed Citizen." Here. one can read about the law-abiding citizens who have used their guns to proter.t themselves from robbery, rape and murder. Surprised that you don't hear these stories as the evening nmvs headlines? Well, I am. You are far more likely to hear of the armed person atternpLing the crime rather than the armed citizen defending himself or herself. 
Here's a little known fact: There are 65 million gun owners in the U.S., yet less than 0.2 percent of the guns owned are used in crimes. According to a survey conducted by criminologist Gary Kleck, there arr 2.5 million protective uses of firearms annually. This means that guns are used for protection five times more often than for the committal of crimes. But you won't get to hear about the good guys. 
This is just one example of the media's attempts at censoring the facts. Take advantage of the resources you have for unbiased informa­tion to create an informed opinion. And next time you turn on the news, allow yourself to be skeptical. Our constitutional freedoms that we so readily embrace will only be protected when we exercise our voice and arm ourselves with the facts. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Joshua Bourgeois Matt Nania Kate Steer Mike Vanegas Erin LaRuffa Graphics Courtney Boyle 
Jose Cuellar Sports Production Molly McVuy 
Kathleen O'l'lrien 
Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Lala Haughey l'erer Richardson 
TI1t Observer (USPS 'i99 2-4000) is publisli«.l Monday ,hru<1i;h f-riday oa.:cp·l durL1ig cx.im .ind v~1c.tfi.on periods. The OLservcr i.\ .t ,nember of rhe As.soc1,1ted Press. AU reproduction rl~hts are-resc-rved. 



THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Concert: Acoustic Cafe,  . Party: Mid-Winter Cele­ 
Huddle, 9 p.m.  bration, LaFortune,  
. Tournament: Promo­ 11 :30 a.rn.  
tional Air Hockey. Alumni  . Lecture: Joseph A.  
Senior Club, 9 p.m.  Morahan 111, "In, up, and  
. Movie: "Mickey IJ!ue  on top in a hurry," Jordan  
Eyes," Debartolo,  Auditorium, noon  
Hl:30 pm.  

Saturday 

. 
Concert: Steel Drum Rand, Reckers, 2 p.m. 

. 
Discussion: "Gangsters on Campus," CSC, 3 p.m. 

. 
Dinner/Dance: SMC Sophomore Parents' Weekend, Century Center, 


6:30 p.m. 
Sunday 

. 
Performance: Body Week, Little Theatre, 1 p.m. 

. 
Debate: Student body presidential candidates, Lafortune, 3 p.m. 


. 
Literary Festival: William Kennedy, Washington Hall, 8 p.m. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
U. Michigan protestors meet with administrators 
ANN ARBOH. Mich. 

Until Sunday many people at the university of' \1'ichigan had no idea what Michigamua was -that was before the Students of Color Coalition (SCCI occupied the secret society's meeting space and made public the organization's inner workings, which have been largely unknown since 
1902. 
Students, faculty and Ann Arbor residents were lined up until late Tuesday night. to view what SCC members claim is an atmosphere that is degrading to Native American cul­ture. 
"We're making this open to students ... (Michigamua) has never been infil­trated like this before," said Diego Bernal, a Social Work graduate stu­dent who is occupying the meeting space with SCC. 
Those who took the tour of the 
Iowa faculty petitions evaluation 
AMES, Iowa 
Claiming that the Iowa State Univnrsity administra­tion is responsible l'or creating "a climate of' fear and repression," several faculty mPmbers have written and are distributing a petition supporting an evaluation of !SU President Martin Jischke's performance as universi­ty president. Thn petition. which began circulating Tuesday and will continue until about Feb. 25, states. was written by several current and former faculty mem­bers. The prtition states that "many faculty and other concerned individuals arc dissatisfied with the declining importance of undergraduatP education and teaching, inad(iquate communication with faculty concerning the direction of the University. and a climate of' fear and repression that has been created at !SU." Jischke responded to the criticism Tuesday evening by saying Iowa State is making progress. "I think there's an over­whelming feeling across Iowa, within the University and the Board of Hegenl'>, that lowa State is a far better uni­versity today than it was 10 years ago, and if these p110­ple continue to complain, it is unfortunate, but I guess they have the right to do so," he said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast Accu\Veatherlkl forecast for daytime conditions an<l high temperatures  
'' ~... ,,,,,..,· 'H L Q 41 27Thursday ' " '' \ qFriday 34 22 ·:·.;::·.;::· Saturday Q 30 19 ·•:•·•:-* 34Sunday ~ 25 ~­27Monday 39{>'+.::'·.:::•;s,,,....s..,~•, .­... \(  


Q_Q_~q9Q(f~u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cfoudy 
V.a Aosocialiild Press Graphk:;s.Ne1t 
Arizona hate crime sparks march 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
Out of both support and outrage, members of the University of' Arizona community are rallying to the side of a gay student who was stabbed Sunday night while sitting outside a coffee shop. University of Arizona assistant English professor David Hobinson is one of' several people planning a protest march and speak-out event outside of the shop where the 20­year-old student was assaulted. The rally will feature an open mic for people to share anti-gay experiences and other thoughts on homophobia. Robinson, who is an acquaintance of the victim, was notified of the stabbing by a friend who witnessed the crime. After visiting the cafo the same night and speaking with other witnesses, Hobinson said he was inspired to organize the march and speak out. Robinson, along with the people hfl met with Sunday, the UA Pride Alliance and the Tucson chapter of a grassroots gay rights organization are working to make the march and speak-out happen. "We're in the midst of a lot of very vocal anti-gay spePch," Hobinson said. "That's the kind of stuff that fosters actual violence." 



NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 10. 
Prn,r.1r. 
/''-.
. . .,,,,_,e ,#~

® © . . ITTI rm . ~ \¢.:~"'" 
High low Showetl Rain T-atotm• f:lurrie1 Snow lee Sunny Pl. Clqudy Cloudy 
v,a Assoi:1ahtd PrttH 
Atlanta 69 49 Las Vegas 64 45 Portland 48 34 Baltimore 50 39 Memphis 66 47 Sierra Vista 67 44 Boslon 39 31 Milwaukee 37 23 SI. Louis 59 33 Chicago 44 29 New York 45 38 Tampa 72 53 Houston 76 61 Philadelphia 46 37 Wash DC 52 41 

But Michigamua spokesman Nick Delgado said these items, and the majority of others on display to the public, were in storage prior to thP sec occupation. 
'The first time I'd cvPr seen Ithe fig­ure] was this morning when I picked up the paper,'' Delgado said at Tuesday night's Michigan Student Assembly meeting. 
He was reforring to a photo in Tuesday's Michigan Daily of the Native American figure lying on top of a book titled "Pride of 2000." The book and figure are not related and Delgado said that while the book was part of Miehigamua's practices, the figure must have been in the stprage space prior to thn occupation. 
"The question needs to be posed ­were these in the room when the sec took over'?" he asked. 
SCC members said they will be vigi­lant and will not vacate the meeting space until the University severs all ties with Michigamua. 
They are also demanding the space currently occupied by Michigamua be made into a cultural study lounge. 



~---------------------------, 
Thursday, February I 0, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Lecture: More teen pregnancies lead to more abortions 
By KEVIN SCHUMM  damage and endotoxic shock, Forsythe explained.  Pennsylvania currently has a WRTK law.  1990," said Forsythe. Accompanying this increase  would be worse," Forsythe said.  
News Writer  Furthermore. he said several  Despite its possibly harmful  in sexual activity is the preva­ Because of Roe  v.  Wade,  
studies of American  women  effects, polis show that some  lence of sexually transmitted  some Americans in the 1970s  
Ov!lr tlrn past three decades,  report an  increased risk of  teens  view  abortion  as  an  diseases, said Forsythe. A com­ viewed abortion  as crucial to  
changing attitudes attributed  breast cancer after having an  effective  means of contracep­ mon STD known as HPV, which  the future of the United States.  
to tlrn stixual revolution have !f'd /\nrnricans to view abortion  induced abortion. AUL's goal is to counter the  tion. According to a poll con­ducted by the Center for  contributes to over 90 percent of annual cervical cancer  Acknowledging that abortion has become ingrained in mod­ 
as a "f'ail-saf'e contraceptive,"  widely held opinion that "abor­ Disease Control, the teen birth  deaths, affects about 24 million  ern American society, Forsythe  
said Clarkn Forsythe. president of Americans UnitP-d for Life  tion promises 110 conse­ rate in 1972 wi>nt from 22  Americans. In a recent Gallup poll. 60  advocates the development of a new vision void of abortion.  
(AULi. \ilany Americans today am misinform,id about abortion  quences. AUL is a very strong ad vo·­ "The sexual revolution musl give way to a  per teens per  1,000 to 42 1.000  percent of '.\1iddle America ~ defined as those people not absolutely pro-life or pro­ This change in vision will lead to a dramatically different culture that must start on the  
because or markeling of 1.he prol:ndurc~ during the 1960s, Forsyth!' said. Currently, om! in  ca Le or Woman's Right To  culture offulfilling, committed relationships . ...,  teens in 1 9 9 0 . Similarly, the  choice ~ are in fact, "deeply troubled" by the prevalence of abortion.  personal level with individuals adopting positive ideals, Forsythe said. He specifically  
thrne pregnancies in the Unit1!d Statns ends in abortion. Although the proceduru was marketed as a tool to "end ille­ K n o w (WHTK) laws. which man­date that  Clarke Forsythe president of AUL  abortion rates soared from 20 per 1,000in 1972  "Americans see abortion as a necessary evil," Forsythe said, explaining that many myths alluding to the occurrence and  cited the need to develop posi­tive conceptions of marriage. "The sexual revolution must give way to a culture of fulfill­ 
gitimacy, poverty and child  adequate  to  43  per  prevalence of back-alley abor­ ing, committed relationships,"  
abuse and promote maternal  information  1,000  teens  tions developed during the  said Forsythe.  
health," it commonly  causes  on the risks of and alternatives  in 1990.  1960s. The promulgation of  Through his efforts with AUL,  
side effects in  the  woman,  to abortion be presented to the  "The bottom line is that the  these myths led many modern  Forsythe wants to focus  on  
ranging from infoc:tion and  mother so Lhal she may make  number of teenagers getting  Americans to believe that the  "dispelling the myth of abor­ 
exr.essivc bleeding to cervical  an  informed  decision,  pregnant nearly doubled in  "restoration of abortion laws  tion being good for women."  

F0;e-wi_I_ty 

Arts and Letters Departments, Institutes, and Collective Resources* 
Presenters: 
Chris Fox, Dean, College of Arts and Letters Patrick Geary, Director of Medieval Institute Robert Wegs, Director, Nanovic Institute Katherine O'Brien--O'Keefe, Professor of English 


Discussion to Follow 
~<>.._d~-y~ F~b.--..~~-y I_4:-th SIO UUE~ ~cI£--e.._.._~ II~II 9:00 ~ ~=00 

OHCampw• 
Jlfflior 'P~rmt W«Kfflb Spc&l f (bn,Ant 17-21, 1000 
Come early; stay late, same price! 
Sacred Heart PallSh Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend cost is S60.00 per parent. VVhelher you stay Two, three, or foll" niglts. 
Rooms ..., available Thursday a,rough Sunday. 
For reservations, call 21~31-7512. 
*Based on the Provost's Task Force Committee Report on Arts and Letters Departments, Institutes, and Collective Resources. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 10, 2000 
"However, centers and insti­tutes are too complex for a one 

Speakers discuss social justice


Hatch 
size fits all model." 
continued from page 1 
involvement in selection process of deans and how the president has to concur with what the elected search com­mittee. consisting of faculty, decides. 
Hatch added that lhe Fellows and the members of the Board of Trustees acted within their power and both sides of the issue were presented in the London meeting. 
"I know enough people involved to know that neither side dominated the meeting," Hatch said. 
Hatch also commented on the role of the research profes­sor in the Liniversitv and the importance to recognize their accompli.shments. 
"Research faculty need more recognition ... but it would be cumbersome to invent a new category for the recognition." Hatch said. 
Hatch stated that the University ne('ds to find more occasions to hire research fac­ulty. 
One of the other issues that 
Hatch acknowledged the importance of' investing in such centers and institutes and cites the success of the Keough Center for lrish Studies as an example of this importance. 
"We need to continue to invest in these centers because many times they can lead to foundation funding,;' Hatch said. 
Hatch stated that it is impor­tant to "integrate academic and student [or campus life] affairs, while recognizing the roles of each." 
The provost noted that Duke University provided a stipend for faculty who act as fellows in the residence halls. Hatch stated that this stipend has provided mode.rate success. 
"Notre Dame's residence halls do a fabulous job at building community," Hatch said. "We want to maintain that." 

In other news: 
. Faculty Senate voted unanimouslv to send a motion and propos.ed an amendment to the Administration 

By MOLLY McVOY News Wrirer 
The speakers at Wednesday's brown bag luneheon said that their education at Saint Mary's involved more than classrooms and textbooks. 
As part of Social Justice Week at the College, M.J. Murray­Vachon, Class of 1982, Emily Hopkins, Class of 2000, and Ann Loux, an English professor, spoke on the issue of social jus­tice and everyday life. 
"Social justice, to me, is a search for truth and a search for the dignity in every individ­ual," Hopkins said. 
Hopkins hopes to go on to graduate school in social work, with a specialty in social justice. A passion to help those who cannot seem to help themselves drives her work at thC' Center for the IIomeless. 
"My only fear, and I guess my hope. is that I never lose that passion," Hopkins said. 
She explained that the first component to living a socially conscious life is changing one's mentality. People must first force themselves to seriously think about social issues in a differnnt way. 

"This was my biggest chal­lenge," Hopkins said. "It can be a challenge on this campus; it is somewhat homogeneous." 
Exposure to the poor and involvement with them is also crucial to social justice. She explained that without immers­ing oneself in poor communi­ties. feeling does not turn into action. 
"Exposure is the key," she said. "It turns those thoughts into actions." 
l\turray-Vachon agreed that exposure to the issues is the best way to awaken conscious­ness. For her, social justice is an extension of the responsibility that comes with being Christian. 
"Social _justice is how we, as Christians, take our faith into action everyday," Murray­Vachon said. 
After graduating from Saint Mary's, Murray-Vachon spent a year volunteering with Holy Cross Associates. This experi­ence helped change her atti­tudes about the poor and other social problems. 
"I learned that the world is so much bigger than my needs," Murray-Vachon said. 

She explained that people have a choice between what she calls the good life and the abun­dant life. She described the good life as the American dream: a career, a house and a car. The abundant life is what Christians are called to live: a life focused on community and religion. Communal living, faith development, service to the poor and simple living are all components of the abundant lifo. 
Murray-Vachon also worked with high risks families for six years as a therapist in the inner city of Chicago. 
"It was so humbling and so directing." she said. "They had so little hope. It was very pro­found." 

Hatch addressed was the cre­Committee. The motion dealt 
ation of centers and institutes with amending the Academic 
within the University and how 
Articles in respect to the 
open such institutions and cen­Faculty Board on Athletics. 
ters are to both internal and The committee will report on 
external review. 
the motion in March's meeting.
Hatch stated that last year 
. The chairperson
the Academic Council passed announced in her report that 
some academic regulations 
there will be a Senate Forum 
and guildelines for institutions on Academic Life on Feb. 14 in 
and centers. 
room 210 of the Center for 
"We've begun to review cen­
Continuing Education. The 
ters such as the Center for 
topic of the forum will be "Arts 
Environmental Studies, Kroc 

TRY OUR NEW
and Letters Departments,Institute and the Kellogg Institutes and Collective 
Institute," Hatch said. 
Resources." 


ITALIAN CHICK'N CRISP FOR ONLY 99¢.
<IZ_OSCES~ 
(LET'S JUST SAY THE EXCHANGE RATE




0 !:~~:.: 

IS IN YOUR FAVOR.) 
' Delivered 
S,.){aten10,vs~fs 
· I 

~72-0970 
Ord&r now1 1/2 mi north on 933 
Q 
ATRIA SALON ACADEMY 
MONDAYS ONLY ALL SERVICES PERFOR.MED BY STYLISTS IN TRAINING 
Valid only -..,ith thefo/lo-..,ing Junior Stylists: Angie, Connie, Vicki, and Jennifer 
Hilites and Haircut ----------------------$I5. 00 Perm and Haircut ----------------------$I5.00 Colour and Haircut ----------------------$I5.00 
289-5080 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. on the corner of Edison 1 rnile east of Notre Darne and Saint Mary's 
Certain restrictions apply. All services are performed by our Junior Stylists in training. Please mention this ad "vhen hooking appointments. 



FLOWERAMA 

Valentine's Day is 


THE NEW ITALIAN CHICK'N CRISP AT BURGER KING?


COMING! 

You don't have to travel far to enjoy a little taste of Italy. Introducing the delicious
99¢ 

Italian Chick'n Crisp sandwich at BURGER KING® restaurants. Tender, juicy, all-white-meat 
Get your delivery orders in before 

chicken topped with mouarella cheese and zesty marinara sauce. Right now just 99q;.
•y: 12 noon on Saturday 'f!J"Y: 


The Huddle, LaFortllfl8 Student Center 
·~~ '~~ 
Corner of Edison & Ironwood 3 blocks from Notre Dame 

Price and participation may vary. .
288-3995 

---"-----,
l l 



orld 
l 


Thursday, February 10, 2000 C0MPll,ED FROM TUE OBSERVER WlnE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Rivals Gore, Bradley focus on education 
ST. LOUIS 

Dr.morratir· rivals Bill Brad!P.y and /\1 Gore focusr.d tightly on r.ducation today. with Brndlny arguing the Clinton administrnLion has hPen "long on promisf's and short on progn1ss." Gore countered that Bradley was discovP-ring: thP education issue only after "14 months havr passed in this prnsidenlial cam­paign and three states have had elections" rf'.jecting Hra<lley. The vice president was in Michigan to detail his proposal ror a national college-tuition savings program. It would Pnsurc that state plans transfer from statP. to statn and would havn the federal govnrnment covt>r tlw amount that inl1ation ate away from u family's inwstnwnt. 
High prices spur Iraq oil smuggling 
l)LiUAI. United Arab Emirates 

Smugglers evading U.S. destroyers in the Persian Gulf ari1 shipping more and more Iraqi oil in violation ol' U.N. sanctions. reaping handsom1' profits and lining the pockets of Iraqi PrPsid1\nt Saddam llussein. the L.S. Navv savs. Last wepk"s seizure of a Hussian tanker 1:,trrying illicit Iraqi fuel highlighted lhl' issue of Iraqi oil smuggling. which the U.S. Navy estimates has nearly doubled in six months. U.N. naval forces seized the tanker off the Emirates· coast. The 4,000 tons of oil -equivalent to 29,320 barrels -seized from the Volga-Neft-147 is only a fraction of what is getting through. said Cmdr. Jeff Gradeck, spokesman for the Bahrain-based U.S. Navy 5th FleeL 
Obstetrician indicted, arrested for assault 
NEW YORK 

An obstPtrician who c:arvPd his initials into a patient's abdomen when lw dPlivered hP-r baby was arrPsted WPdn11sday on assault charges. Allan Zarkin. 61, was acntSf\d or cut­ting "/\z·· with a scalpnl into the lower abdonwn of' Liana (;pcJz. 31. aftt!r delivering hm· babv bv Cwsarean section at Beth Israel llospitai'on·sept. 7. Zarkin p!Paded innocent to two counts of assault at his arraignment. Acting Justice Brenda _Soloff released him without bail and scheduled a hnaring for March 14. Zarkin. whose license to practice medir.ine was revoked Feb. 3. !'aces up to 25 years in prison if convicted. The charge carries a mandatory minimum sentence of' five years. Barrv Fallick. Zarkin's lawver. admit,; that his 1·lkn"L cut tlw lettPrs into· Gedz but said his client isn't responsibfo bt'cause Im suffers from a brain dist>aSP that impairs his judgment. 

S&P 500: 
1-111.70


10,699.16 
-30 02 
VOLUME LEADERS 

~QIIUliI U~IS.IB ) !;UAmilli l S::Ul:i'-1 i!BU~I 
CISCO SYS'!'EMS CSC<> +2. 38 +2. 9975 129 .81 M.Cl TflOP.LDCCK -5.Sl -l.S~1:J ta .\2"""" 35 .56
OEU, COHP!JTER iDEt,L -4. 05 -l.5025 
5'AGING Ni'!'WORK PAGE -15.79 ~o. H25 ].0!) MICROSOFT CP MSF'l' -5 .co -5.93'75 10,.00 OMCL!: CORP Oil.Cl. -t0-01. ,tG.3115. SS .S4 SUN MlC'RO$YSTEM su,,w +S.2-4. -+-4. 5600 91.56 LUC'EN'r TECR INC LU -.2.Ql3 -1.1215 53 .o, COMPAQ COMPUTER CPQ -4. 94. -1.1100 26.3B lN'!"IL C'OR.F ~NTC -:J. as -4.l':i.2S 10( ,62 
ENGLAND 


Associated Press 
STANSTED 
Contact with the hijackers of an Afghan airliner broke down Wednesday after the flight r.rew escaped, but police regained communica­tion and expressed confi­dence thev were on track to win release of the 150-plus hostages aboard. 
The negotiations became strained after four crew members staged a daring, midnight escape through a cockpit window. Police were left to wonder if anyone aboard could fly the Ariana airlines Boeing 727 if the hijackers chose to take off again. The plane had leapfrogged across Asia and Europe before arriving Stansted airport near London early Monday. 
"You can imagine their [the captors] reactions when they discovered that the. l1ight crew had gone," said Joe Edwards, an assis­tant chief constable of Essex County police. "Perhaps understandably. things went quiet." 
But contact resumed later Wednesday and negotiators grew more hopeful about the release of the 150-plus hostages. 

"We're more optimistic nnw, said Edwards. "Negotiations are where they should be." 
Negotiators insisted that the armed men had made no formal demands, politi­cal or otherwise. The men. believed to be Afghan dissi­dents armed with grenades, pistols and daggers. had requested only that food, water and other comfort items be brought to the plane, parked on a runway. 
Speculation mounted in the British media, however, that the plane was seized as part of an elaborate bid for political asylum -and that some of the roughly hostages were in on it. 
"HI-HOAX? Hijackers and hostages may be asylum seekers," the tabloid Mirror blared on its front page. The downmarket Daily Star lamented "Oh no! They ALL want to stay [and we'll have to pay]." 
Fueling the asylum specu­lation was the arrival Tuesday of an observer from the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. The observer would be providing exper­tise but would not be joining the negotiating team. 
Alaska Air inspects MD-80 jets 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Alaska Airlines said it was inspecting its fleet of MD-80 jetliners Wednesday for damage to a key part in the tail system that may have playnd a crucial role in the crash of flight 261. 
Tile component. called a jackscrew. drives the hori­zontal stabilizer. which has become the focus of the investigation into the Jan. 31 crash that killed 88 peo­ple off the r.oast of Southern California. 
A two-foot section of the srrm•v was found with the main wreckage of the 1\1D­83 about 10 miles off the r.oast. and the airline said the scrPw was found to bP stripped. 
"It appeared to investiga­tors who looked at the mechanism -that there was some damage to it," National Transportation Safety Board Chairman Jim Hali said in Chicago. "It was unclear whether the damage· was pre-impact or l'rom hitting the water." 
Alaska said it would inspect all 34 of its MD-80 series planes as a precau­tion. The inspection was not expected to cause sig­nitkant service delays 
The jarkscrew is pow­ered by two motors and resembles the corkscrew­like device that opens many automatic garage doors. 
lnvr.stigators are focus­ing on the stabilizer. a wing-like device on the jet's tail. because pilots reported problems with it after taking off from Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, for San Francisco. 

If the jackscrew was damaged during flight. the horizontal stabilizer could move beyond its normal range, causing the tail wing to stall, or lose its lift, said William Waldock, associate direc­tor for the Center for Aerospace Safety Education . at Embry­Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott. Ariz. · 
It would be nearly impossible to recover from such a stall, Waldock said. 
The pilots would not be able to control the up-or­d own motion of the air­craft -which would be consistent with flight data that shows thP plane went into a 3.4-milc nosedive 
and radar tracking that shows something may have fallen off the plane as the dive began. 
The stabilizer moves up and down as a nut rides the jackscrew back and forth, explained aviation analyst John Nance of Tacoma, Wash. It was unknown whether the NTSB recovered the nut. 
"The system somehow came apart. separated or whatever and the stabiliz­er was free to flip up into the wind at a very severn angle." he said. 
"You put something like that directly into the wind at such an angle and it's going to fail. In the pr.ocess of failing. instead of just coming off the air­plane, it pulled the tail up and pulled the nose down." Nance said. 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February I 0, 2000 
radio and talking about what­that thfl Senate had the right ishment. "Ilonestly, I am just disap­ever, was not a solil:itatiun of to overturn, rnduce, increase "Did a personal appearance pointed in the abstentions.
Senate 

votes," said Knott Senator Ed or change imposed penalti1~s occur? Yes, of course," said Senators are there to vote and 

continued from page 1  Foy. "I think the words 'vote  assigned  by  the  Judicial  Put Foy. "Campaign tickets  they did not," Palumbo said.  
for me' are very important and  Comrnitt(rn with a 21:1 vote.  should know tho rules. I think  Pat Foy also sharnd some dis­ 
public contact for solicitation  I  don't  think  they  wr.re  Most or tho dobate occurred  they are in violation. However,  content with the meetings out­ 
of votRs.  Personal appear­ utterc1d."  under the notion  that this  two days doesn't make much  come.  
ances. placement of posters or  Standard llall Senator Curt  bylaw  - having bcnn passed  sense."  "In my two years on the sen­ 
distributions of any election  Roberts said that if the radio  earlier  at  tho  meeting  - "I feel that they did violate  ate  not  a  single thing the  
materials is considered cam­ show  was  a  violation, then  granted the Senate the ability  the rules, but most important­ Senate has passed has been  
paigning."  other public appearances of'  to hand down  a differnnt µun­ ly, I do feel  tlw punishment  turned  down  by  Student  
Because O'Donoghue and.  candidates should also be con­ is hmen t  to  given should  Activities, let alone by two  
Norton cl.id not solicit votes on  sidernd violations.  O'Donoghue  fit  the  assistants to  tlrn director of  
the radio, they did not violate the bylaw, according to Smilh. ''It was common knowledge  For instance, he said. the ticket of John Osborn and Mark Donahey presented a  and Norton from the original two­ "/feel that they did violate the rules, but  crime," said Dowdall. "I think it  Student Activitins," he said "Two assistant to the direc­tors determined the outcom,~  
that they were  candidates,"  proposal lo tlw Senate  a  few  day suspen­ most importantly, I do  should  be  of an  appeal  for  a  student  
Smith said. ''However. they Wt'lll into the interview lo have fun. to L1:dk about things.  weeks ago ancl al the same meeting also announced thr.y were running for office.  sion. Two hours into the  feel the punishment given should fit the crime."  ono dav." "We' Ve now deter­ election," he added. Presidential candidate O'Donoghuc commented after  
They were not soliciting votes.  "Tlrny wHe talking about  meeting, stu­ mined  they  the meeting stating disap­ 
Were they acting as candi­dates? No, they were not. It just happens they are candi­ campaign issues. Shouldn't this have bnen a violation?'' he said. "No, neilher of these  dent body vice presi­dent Michael  Brendan Dowdall Dillon senator  weri~ in the wrong," said Ed Foy.  pointment in the overturned appeal. "It is a setback, a small one.  
dates."  tickets said '\;'ote for me.' They  Palumbo  was  "They  did  However, we've been running  
However, folks argued the  were not soliciting votes."  informed  reach out to  on  the slogan 'Believe.' We're  
other side.  Other senators disagreed,  that the 1rnw bylaw was not in  the student body and in  some  not about to stop believing  
"It is my understanding that  saying the appearance was a  effect  because  it  needed  opinions,  solicit  votes.  now. We're going to overcome  
when they were asked to be on  violation.  Student Activities approval.  However, they did this for one  this, and press on," he said.  
WVFI.  it  was  because they  "They  made  a  personal  Because the bylaw was  not  day, and a one-day suspension  O'Donoghue  added  that  
were  candidates.  appearance on  the radio as  in affect, the Senate had the  is fair.''  there is a  positive side to the  
IO'Donoghuel himself told  me  candidates,"  said  Zahm  choice to either accept the  After  more  debate,  the  controversy: "There has been  
that," Folks said.  Senator Ryan Becker. "To me  appeal in full and designate no  Senate concurred that because  some good  come  of this. We  
Dillon  Senator  Brendan  that's  cut  and dry  - they  punishment,  or  deny  the  there  was  a violation,  a pun­ have seen  phenomenal faith  
Dowdall  was  tlrn only senator  made  a  violation  of  the  appeal and agree to the two­ ishment should  be handed  and support from  the Notre  
present that heard the inter- bylaws."  day punishment.  down, and thus voted to sup­ Oame student body  both in  
view Saturdav.  ·  "A  rule  is  a  rule,"  said  Many senators felt this pun­ port the two-day suspension.  the Student Union and  our  
''I'll be as f~ank as possible."  Cavanaugh Senator Bridget  ishment was too harsh for the  However,  seven  Senators  dorms. People do truly believe  
he said. "Their interests were  Tomes. "Rules make sure that  crime and wanted to  use the  abstained from voting because  in  us  and  believe  in  what  
not in  the campaign. Most  people play fair. They are in  new bvlaw to amend the pun- they did not agree.  we're fiqhtinrr for."  
questions asked  were jokes  ...  violation. 8y overruling what  
There  were  some  serious  the Judicial Council said, we  
issues, such as interracial dat­ are taking our trust away from  
ing and diversity on campus,  them."  
but  no  platform  was estab­ Perhaps the most controver­ 
lished."  sial issue was a motion passed  
Other senators felt the same  at the beginning of the  meet­ 
way.  ing.  The  "Procedures  for  
"Their appearance  on  the  Election Appeals Bylaws" said  
Campus Locations:L=====;;, 
COMING SOON: A NEW ATM, LOOK FOR IT IN THE  Full Service: Reckers Douglas Road Office  
NORTH  Cash Dispenser Only:  
DINING HALL!  Hammes Bookstore  
Grace Hall  
Coming Soon:  
'); H,-11 prn  North Dining Hall  
If1e prai I;,, of fcndur, f;1,I us,.d Ltj llu  
 
''fcndr,/' w!,;, I, 1111 ,111, "Jc m, 11''.  
ren.lw w:" inlr·,:duu-d ·,s a nulin1al  l;,I, in ~wilu r•lcm l.  
llw u,111i1q lcqdl11T cf bmilic, :rnd f,•irn1.  
f.. llq rlncr-:iki cnamic, pt tlvn1, Cf' Padl1rnw:1f'c, "'Jl" lom cl rlwFse '.ln~  
oil '.l< rc111pm1i,J l,J cPuskd brvmk lr•uil,, wgdc1LI,,,, mcnls, and bmnbco  
~k.-w,·r, '" rt  ri.u ,-,Jen Ilic lab!.-sc tlnl ,1111'111 rnulJ indulge cil !lwir leisure.  
I !ms t.Juq.....montJ cPnfu,,;,,, Lkr -llw ,am,  lm,lilion cf l,cspilal;ftl and  


FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
Notre Dame Hockey vs Nebraska Omaha 
7:00pm Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
Sign up at Friday's game to win a 19" TV or Sega Dreamcast 
--·----­

Thursday, February 10, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Students, faculty criticize ND's character 
learning lo grow up," she said, supposed By ANNE MARIE stressing that the University to be that MATTINGLY considers more than tHst big." Asso~i:ur Ntw3' Edi.wt scores and grades during the Students 
admissions process. Since the also dis­

:'/otrn Damn administrators school scilects "good puople." cussed the art' too controlling and judg­lhose people should be given develop­nwnta I. sui d sturlPnts at an more discretion. ment of open forum Wtidnesday spon­"Sometimes I feel like I'm relation­sornd by the ad hoc ctirumiltee beiug led by tlrn hand and thal ships with on .l\cad('mic and Student Lil'e. people are helping me a little prol'Hssors. 
Law school professor Carol loo much.... In somn ways you T h C Moonev asked the stmlnnls if have to break !'rec. and part or develop­Notre hanw sonds inconsistent that is making your own mis­ment of a rnessagns. citing the probation lakes," Marcum said. personal of tlw Womnn's Bcsource Slatt claimed that Notrn relation­Ccu1tcr dnspitli thl' importance Dame rcf"usfls to allow stu­ship with Llw Lniwrsity placos 011 acad-dents lo make such mistakes professors 11mic l'rt>Pdom. Studt)nls criti­lrncause it is morn concerned requires ciztH.l the way that situation about its inuge than it is primarily was handlcd. about its students. slue.lent ini­"The Women's Htisourc(i "Public relations is not thP. tiative, said C1n1ter is Llwn) to help women most imp1-irtant thing in this students und to scrvf> thnm," said world," he said. "This place is present for junior Vincent Slatt. "Tlwy a multimillion-dollar businPss the meeting. tuok the information away ... and a Catholic institution, "A lot of it 
They also said that there is University would hesitate to
rro rn tht' women who need it." but sometimes it's run more is up to me," said Marcum. 
often little participation in accept classes taken at a fel­
Slatt l'aulted the University like a multimillion-dollar busi­"Professors are very busy peo­
such events because most stu­low well respected, Catholic
for pushing a Calholic agenda. ness." ple." 
dents do not know about institution.
"It's likP they're saying. Students also i-itcd the pari­Slatt expected a more per­
them, said students present at "It makes you wonder,
'l.ook. we etal rules sonal relationship with his 
the forum. 'What's the issue here?' I
undnr­as an instructors.
''This place is a "We enjoy it. We get a pretty understand that we have to 
s l a n d instance "!The relationship isl not 
good turnout for most of our uphold our academic stan­
y o u r multmillion-dollar business ... of the what I expected, but it's good 
lectures," said Dillon Hall dards ... but I didn't receive
problems, University in a different way," he said.
and a Catholic institution, but 

sophomore Alex Pagnani of any help trying to translate
bul lhis is refusing Marcum, a bfology major,
sometimes it:,;; run more like a dorm-sponsored events. those classes," he said.
tlrn righl to let stu­attributes the difficulty in 
But student participation in "There's no academic body
solution. multimillion-dollar business.'' d e n t s forming personal relationships 
a number of events is low, helping me research what 
a n d direct with professors to the nature 
Slatt said, because students do [Notre Dame does] have and
you're their own of the science curriculum.
Vincent Slatt not find out about events until how credits can transfer."
going to lives. "In the beginning sciences,
junior it is too late to attend. Marcum Furthermore, Pagnani sug­
h a t c "That's it's learning facts," said 
suggested posting campus gested that more 24-hour
yourself' a huge Marcum, who explained that 
events in the dining halls space is needed on campus.
Iii' you growing­professors and students do not 
because most students would Marcum noted that Reckers is
make a different choice]." he up experience, being able to have another context in which 
see such a list. a good start for interaction
said. "Let tlw women who are stand up for yourself," said to relate to one another. Both 
In addition, students at the among students but that it is
smart enough lo get into this Marcum about deciding to ask groups also spend such large 
forum noted that it is difficult inconvenient for students who
University decide for them­guests to leave. amounts of time together in 
to take classes for credit in a live on the other side of cam­
selves. and if it's a sin. then Noting Notre Dame's lax lecture and lab that often both 
non-traditional manner. pus.
that's for God to judge." alcohol policy. Slatt claimed have had enough of one 
Marcum. who spent a Slatt also expressed concern
Sirnior Candv Marcum that the University's priorities another. she said. "Science 
semester abroad, claimed she that his classes on similar top­
expanded tl1P discussion to am misguided. classes are more structured ... 
encountered resistance to her ics do not overlap and believes
includP tlw gcrwral way in "That's a law. That's not That makes a big difference." 
efforts to take classes for her that he is missing the larger
which administrators treat 1wen speaking about moral The students also expressed 
biological sciences major out picture in bis Spanish/history
students. issues," he said. "I knuw a great deal of interest in 

"Parl uf' b1dng Christian. there's a separation between intellectual discussion in part ol' bPing Catholic ... is church and state. but it's not non-class setting. 

The center for Ethics and Religious Values is sponsoring another exciting Ethics Week. Ethics Week 2000 events include the following presentations in the College of Business. 
MONDAY. FEBRUARY 14.  "'Ethical lssut's in Organizational Belrnvior." A workshop will fea­ 
ture Prnfrs,.;or :VI ike Craut.  
12:JOpm -l:30pm  
121 Collt'w· of Business  
TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 15.  "Communitv Service: Tilt' Ethieal Imperative."  Marilou Eldred,  

tlu" pre,-idrnl of St. \1an·'s College. will he the s1waker for this session. 12::10prn -1::Wpm 122 Coilf>I,((' of Business 
WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 16. "\Vliat Etlii<"s Week Means lo the College of Business" will he 
tlw lopi(· of a prcsi·ntalion by Dean Carolyn Woo. Coll,~ge of Business. 12::10pm -I::rnp111 Jorda11 Auditoriu111 
THURSDAY FEBRUARY 17 "Ethical [mplic.1tio11s of Cert,1in Marketing Prnctices." Professor Greg Cull(lla<'h will IPad this workshop session. 12::30pm -l:30fml 
l.21 College of Bu,,iues~ 
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 18 "Profcs:.;io11ak" A panel discu:.;,,ion tlwl will inducl(' input from 
Carnlyn Andt>rso11. (bl Sourer~ Bank). fx.uv StP11kt', (Co~hen Rubber), Barlrnn1 Sutton. (NITA), a11d \fork WitheC"k. (AYe Mana Prcssl. 
All are welcome to attend the presentations. You are welcome to bring your lunch. Cold drinks will be provided. 
If you haw any questions altout Ethic~ 'Wet•k :WOO, plt>asi> ('ontan Kf'n Milani at K1•1111Pth. W. Milnni. l@ncl .Pdu, or Deh Coch at Dt>horah. M.Coeh. l@nd .1•du 

a of the traditional sequence. major. "It's all planned out for "I'm going to walk out of you," she said. "[People] get here with a degree in Spanish upset when you ruffle feath­from the University of Notre ers, [even though] it's your Dame prepared to speak own life you're dealing with." Spanish with native speakers, Slatt, who spent a year but not to communicate with studying in Spain through them, and I feel there's a big Marquette University, had difference," he said, noting trouble getting the credits he that Notre Dame's Spanish earned that year to count at program does not provide suf­Notre Dame and claimed not ficient awareness of Hispanic to understand why the history and culture. 
f>rlCIZ-$ 
dartinq a.1 
se·goo
per rocm 

··.· • .•· parnlghl 
on 1·. people 
M2 .3/'31/0ll"" 
'.2700 n.Ai 
800-6~4-621 

www.aayfo sort.com or www.di k.com 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 10, 2000 
Hypertension drug effective in many ways 
Associated Press 
TRENTO~, N.J. 
Could an experimenLa] hypertension drug keep seniors with a common, but rarely treated, type of bor<lerline high blood pressure from dying or having a heart attack. stroke or heart failure? 
Sd!'ntists in 16 r.ountries, led by a r.ardiulogist at the Universitv of Medicine and Dnntistrv r,f New Jersey, have begun an extensive, live-year study to find the answ11r. They are hoping the mndication will prevenL patients' arteries from stiffening fur­ther and thus pushing their 
forms of this 
blood pres­"It is a history making 
isolated sys­
sure danger­clinical trial.,, 
tolic hyper­
ously high. 
tension bcn­
ThP study 
efits the
John Kostis
begun last fall 
patient," bnt
will include chairman of Department of 
this study
about 12,600 Medicine 
patien Ls at about 900 sites around the world, according to the lead researcher, Dr. John B. Kostis. a cardiology professor and chairman of the Department of Medicine at CMDNJ-Robert Wood Johnson :vledical School in New Brunswick. 
"It is a history-making clini­r.al trial." Kostis said last month. 
The study will test a Bristol­Myers Squibb Co. drug, called omapatrilat. on patients who have an early stage of what's called isolated systolic hyper­tension because only their sys­tolic blood pressure is above normal. 
Systolic pressure, the top number in a blood pressure reading, occurs when the heart contracts. forcing blood into the arteries: diastolic pressure, the lower number in a blood pressure reading, occurs when the heart relaxes between beats. Usually if one pressure is elevated, the other is high as well. 
From the 1950s until the l 990s. r.ardiologists and researchers focused on patients' diastolic pressure, 
r---~ ----------------, 
J _..&,,_;;:,;.;:;;..;.;;;_.....,.. 
I I 
SUPEII I I I I 
aI I 
t.tarEL
I ._____...,,_,._. 
I .___ ® 
L-----------------------J 
• fref: Conlinenfnl Urmkfast 
• 
Ff'Pf! I-1[,0, CNr--i, ESPN 
t\1ust present coupon prior fc d1ed:-i11 
272-9000 
NOTRE DAME DISCOUNT: 
$20 OFF ON ANY SPA! 
Available to all students and Parents with this coupon. Valid Sunday -Thursday -not valid for Special 
Events 
l-80 .u Exir 77 • 52625 !JS 3~N • So11tl1 Rend, IN• 272­9000 1-80 «r Exie 77 • 52825 US 3.,N • Somh !lend, IN• 
partly because the heart is at rest two-thirds of the time. Efforts to control hypertension concentrated on bringing down patients' diastolic prnssure until studies by Kostis and other researchers in the late 1990s showed that using diuretics prevented cardiac "events" such as heart attacks in many patients. 
Kostis said those studies showed that the level of a patient's systolic pressure was a better predictor than dias­tolic pressure of whPther their heart condition would worsen or kill them. 
"There is no proof that trnat­
in g the 
mildest 
could prove 
just that, 
said Kostis, who spent a dP-cade trying to organize and get funding for it. 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, which has its research headquarters in Princeton, is funding the study. It is hoping the federal Food and Drug Administration. which last month said it would expedite its evaluation of the drug, will approve it for sale by June. 
Half the patients will take a 20 mg or 40 mg dose of omap­atrilat each day and half will take a sugar pill. Neither the patients nor their doctors will know who got what until the study ends. Patients must be 65 or older and have a systolic blood pressure of 141 to 159 and a diastolic pressure below 90, 
"I think they're doing a great thing for whoever might need it," said Alfred Feld, 72. one of the first patients recruited. 
Feld, a retired salesman and manager in the textile industry, has had borderline high blood pressure for years but is always on the go with errands and civic ar.tivities. He doesn't want his heart condition to worsen and force him to slow down. 

Collisions prompt NTSB inquiry 


Jfappy 21st CEric! ! 
if',\ ;­
Love, Marty, Kosek, Luna, Brian,& T 


e<nu.c~GUt'Wdl 
succession raises questions about the ability of the pilots of small airr.raft to monitor their own actions. said Jim Poole, the Chir.ago-bascd regional vice prnsident for the National Air Traffic Controllers Association. 
Control towers that do exist are often understaffed, and other towers that should still operate have been removed, leaving pilots that sometimes have very little flying experi­ence to muddle through a take­off or landing with no guid­anr.e, he said. 
"Certainly you're cutting the cost ... but you're also cutting the safety," Poole said.­
Most of the time, the "rulfls of the road" approach to flying works, PM statistics show. In 1998, for 8Xample, general avi­ation aircraft -those that are not government, military or commercial -had 1,907 acci­dents, or 7.12 per 100,000 flight hours. Of those, 361 were fatal. 
Midair r.ollisions were extremely rare, with prelimi­nary NTSB data for 1999 show­ing 18 such r.rashes. 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Two recent collisions involv­ing small airplanes have some urging improved air traffic control for such aircraft, which often take off and land at far.Hites without control towers. 
On Tuesday, two small planes collided over suburban Chicago, killing three and sending smoldering wreckage into a densely populated area. Only a day before, four people died in Los Angeles al'ter their planP.s collided over a golr course. 
Those who fly such planes call the collisions Mondav and Tuesday a tragic fluke. Bu\ oth­ers argue the accidents point to a problem. 
National Transportation Safety Hoard investigators were sorting through wreckage Wednesday in Zion, about 45 miles north of' Chicago, lo find clues lo what caused Tuesday's crash over a hospital. 
The crash killed popular Chicago radio personality Bob Collins and a friend flying with him, as well as the student pilot flying the other plane. 

A control tower at the nearby Waukegan Regional Airport had cleared both Collins· two­seat Zlin stunt plane and the four-seat Cessna 172 to land, one aftp,r the other. 
But in this case, as with most operations of small. noncom­mercial planes. it was up to the pilots to make sure their air space was clear before landing, officials said. 
In fact, the presence of a con­trol tower at the Waukegan airport -and at the Van Nuys Airport. near the site of Monday's crash in Los Angeles -is unusual. 
Warren Morningstar, a spokesman for the Maryland­based Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, said only 543 of the about 5,300 public­use airports in the United States have control towers. 
Tha.t means pilots of smaller planes that are not tracked by radar must rely on a common radio frequency, their instru­ments and their eyes to assure safety, Morningstar said. 
The fact that two such colli­sions occurred in such quick 
~ 
~..­
~~

........ 
~......t;lO

GM.ct~•--..tHrlat.f'4f.lJ!Mlt~ 
##'Nd 

~-~ sposored by: N;A.A.C:~' 


Thursday, February J0, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Gasoline additive found in water 
FBI: Computer crimes 
Assodaieu Press 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. 

A widely used gasoline additive that makes cars pollute less but rn11y cause cancer has been foul­in!{ water systems in Maryland. authorifa•s said. 
The additive, known as MTBE, has bmrn deteded in about 210 private wells and 140 monitoring wells drilled near gas stations since 1998. stale oftirials say. It has also turned up in 66 of the more than 1,000 µublic water systems in Maryland, which bt~gan testing in 1995. 
The state Oepartment of the Environment d()(~S nol know the full extent of contamination and is asking lawmakers for permis­sion to use $150,000 to raise the number of groundwater inspec­tors from 21 to 24. 
"We don't think that we have a crisis situation here," Rick Collins, director of the depart­ment's Water :Vlanagement Division, said Tuesday. However, he continued, "I don't want you to go away thinking everything's under control." 
Small amounts of MTHE, or methyl tertiary butyl ether, first came into use in gasoline in the 1970s to boost octane and later, in greater amounts, to "oxy­genate" gas, reducing pollution 
coming out of automobile tailpipes. 

unsophisticated
Following the passage of the Clean Air Act in 1990, federal authorities ordered the phase-in of oxygenates in gasoline sold in the nation's smoggiest urban areas. 
Terry Wigglesworth, executive director of the Oxygenated Fuels Association, an Arlington, Va.­based trade group, said Maryland has enjoyed tremen­dously cleaner air because of MTBE. 
Concerns about the petrochem­ical arose in the mid-l 990s when a European study linked MTBE to liver and kidney tumors in mice. 

do not take much technical expertise to use," Dick said. "A 15-year-old kid could launch these attacks. This is not something that it takes a great deal of sophistica­tion to do." 
But Dick noted that since the FBI docs not know who conducted the attacks, it's "always a possibility" that a foreign government is responsible. 
"Until you get to the key­board being utilized, you don't know what you're dealing with," Dick said. Ile noted that most similar, past attacks used somfl overseas computers as well 
as ones in 
this coun­
try. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
This week's computer attacks on Intermit sites are the largest in memory but aro not particularly sophis­ticated and easily could have been launched by one 15-yflar-old boy, a senior FBI official said Wednesday. 
Ron Dick, chief of the FBI's computer investiga­tion section, said the bureau could not solve the crime or prevent future Internet vandalism without considerable help from the private sector. "We're going to need the help of everyone in the com­munity to 
f 1)~t ~ ~ s~ ,& ,it 4,, , ~4t ,,, ~ ~ ~! ?itind, '8odtf. SfwtU...A e~al &tltWf '8odtf &~"D~A~'?abt ?~15-17 E~ "D~ A~"UJed '?~14-lf. 2000  
HOMES FOR RENT -Oomus Properties has two, five, and seven bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call  
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572  

resolve 

"This is a wakeup call. 
D i c k
this." Dick 

I don't think these could not
told a news 
remem­

conference incidents should cause 
ber any
at FBI 

people not to go online 
attacks
headquar­

to do whatever business t h a t
ters. 
affected

Attorney they're doing." 
as many
General 
millions
Janet Reno 

William Daley of people
said the 

Commerce Secretary as those
motive and 
identity of 
the attack­

er or attackers are not 
known but, "We're commit­
ted to taking steps to ensure 
that e-commerce remains a 
secure place to do busi­
ness." 

"This is a wakeup call," said Commerce Secretary William Daley. "I don't think these incidents should cause people not to go online to do whatever busi­ness they're doing." 
Dick said the week's van­dalism was accomplished using "distributed denial of service" tools. 
In such attacks, a hacker hides these tools, known as daemons, on hundreds or even thousands of innocent third-party computers. The daemons can be triggered later from a remote location to launch simultaneous attacks on a single target, such as Yahoo! or eBay. The attacking daemons give false addresses so they are harder to trace. 
The volume of attacks overwhelms the target and causes it to cease opera­tions, much the same way that a very heavy volume of telephone calls can tie up a phone system and leave most users with no dial tone or a busy signal, Dick said. 
Many tools for such an attack exist on Internet Web sites, and anyone can down­load them, he said. "They t h i s 
week. 

In addition to not knowing 
who is responsible, the FBI 
also does not know how 
many innocent third-party 
computers were used to 
launch them and does not 
know if the attacks have 
ended, Dick said. 
Agents are starting from victim computers and track­ing the attacks back through the Internet service providers that delivered the attacking daemons. Dick likened it to tracking a trail left by bank robbers from the bank to their lair. Tom Burke, of the General Services Administration, said no attacks had been traced thus far to govern­ment computers. 
Dick urged the private sector to report any attacks promptly so tracing can begin quickly. And he urged private Internet sites to keep logs of traffic, install any tools developed to thwart such attacks and keep them updated. 
Over the New Year's weekend, the FBI posted tools that could detect whether two types of dae­mons were hidden on a computer system. Some 2,600 businesses down­loaded the FBI tools at no cost and three found such daemons, prompting the FBI to open criminal inves­tigations of who put them there. 


Thursday, February 10, 2000
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Cla;S. [Jihne 

,'"!'' ,•: ,f_·--' ..,.~t-,:1 
·. ·. ThOrs., ·Feb·J . ·.· 3prri in LaFortun·· Ballroom· 
.'•·~;. -•-~?:?~f}~'f\/:,;v; ·.~" The (~i;:·· Spring Topic· f61'::~<i , 

the Report to the ·soa~ of Trustees will be regard/,(!. Student Representation;;</' 
University Governance. lfyb,1 

interested in working on th/$', 
project, please contact-JofJh' Osborn in the Student<~,~;' Government office (1-7668. 
..~rar,,•·JJ~'s Day Date Match OfIite of the·:·>· ~ iiJ:Je available in both. Pte§1den ,,.:.• Is Feb 14 and 15. 
·";i:frip to Chicago. 
<:<Ticket willbe 
,... • :Feb.J4.a .. · 
~ ,_;".'_~~-:t_.••r: .v ,_ ,_,._,..,, 
·" . ~ 
Acoustic Cafe 

Today, 9pm-12am in the Huddle 
Mickey Blue Eyes 

Tonight, 10:30pm Fri & Sat, 8pm and 10:30pm $2 at DBRT NO FOOD OR DRINK 
Bakra Bata-Steel Drum Band 
. Sat, Feb 12. 2-4pm at Reckers 


Thursday, February 10, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
CAMBODIA 
U.N. urges prosecution of regime 


who drafted the trial plan international judge to agree Associated Press 
could not immediately be with all rulings. Indictments reached for comment. would require agreement of
PllNOM PENH Talks on a court to judge Cambodian and U.N.-appoint­

U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Khmer Houge leaders for the ed co-prosecutors.
Annan remains firm in 
death of 1. 7 million Annan warned in his letter

demands for international 
Cambodians in the late 1970s that the Cambodian plan "willdomination of a proposed tri­

have been deadlocked for be difficult to operate and bunal for 

months. Annan sent the letter likely lead to an impasse."

K h m r r 
in response to Cambodia's The Khmer Rouge came to 

Houge 
invitation last month for a power in 1975 after winning a

l(•aders. 
resumption of far.fl-to-face civil war against a U.S.-backed

rejocting 
talks in Phnom Penh. regime and emptiedkey provi­

Annan told llun Sen he will Cambodia's cities, forcing the

sinns of 
send a team of senior officials entire population into Maoist­Cambodia's if Cambodia is willing to dis­style farming collectives.

plan. 
cuss his four main concerns. Starvation, disease and exe­In a Along with a majority of for­cution claimed the lives of
1Plt0r to eign judges and an indepen­about one in five Cambodians.
Cambodian 
dent U.N. prosecutor. Annan The Khmer Rouge was

premirr Ilun Sen. obtained 
wants an forced out oftoday by Th<• /\ssodated Press. 

international power by theAnnan urged an independent 

agr,H\mP.nt "The United Nations ... Vietnamese

int1•rnational proseculOr and a 
guaranteeing maintains its long­army in 1979,

majority of U.N.-appointed 
that the but fought a

judges. Cambodia has rejeded standing position ... for
Cambodian guerrilla war

such demands as infringing on government the prosecution ofcrimes 
against the

its SOVf'l"Pignty. 
will arrest committed during the Cambodian 

"The United Nations ... 
any suspect government

maintains its long-standing Khmer Rouge regime." 
indicted by until 1996,

position that its cooperation 
Urn court. when the

and engagement in the 
He also Kofi Annan rebel leader­

process or establishing a tri­
w 
a n t s U.N. Secretary General ship began

bunal for thr. prusecu.tion of 
Cambodia to breaking up.

crimes c·ommittf'd during the 
claril'y an In New

Khmer Houge regime. is con­
amnesty York, Annan

tingPnt upon meeting interna­clause in its trial plan that legal adviser Hans Corell said
tional standards of justice. 
could bar prosecution of sev­Tuesday that it wasn't yetfairrrnss and due process of 

eral senior Khmer Rouge who known if Annan and Hun Senlaw," Annan wrote. 

defected to the government as would discuss tribunal plansllun Scn's staff declined to the movement collapsed in the on the sidelines of a. U.N. 

comnrnnt on the letter today. 
late 1990s. Con~rence on Trade and 

exc:cpt to say th at it was 
Cambodia's plan calls for a Development meeting in

reccivr,d late Tuesday and was majority of Cambodian judges. Thailand, which both areunder reviPw. Senior officials but requires at least one attending. 
BRITAIN 

Official asks for better IRA response 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Britain's top official for Northern Ireland appealed Wednesday for the Irish Republican Army to "respond in a constructive way" to calls for disarmament, hoping to save the province's fledgling Cabinet. 
The plea. from Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Mandelson camr, a day after the Ilouse of Commons passed emergency legislation that would allow Britain to sus­pend the Cabinet's consider­able powers and restore so­called direct rule from London. 
Mandelson has vowed to lift the powers Friday, after the bill makes it way through the upper House of Lords. But he indicated a positive response by the IRA could forestall the move. 
"Nobody is asking for sur­render by the IHA." Mandelson told the Commons. "Nobody is asking for humilia­tion to be heaped on the IRA." 
He said he hoped the IRA "will understand this need and even at this 11th hour respond in a constructive way." 
The crisis was spurred Jan. 31 when a report by an inde­pendent disarmament com­mission, which was estab­lished the year before the 1998 Good Friday peace accord. indicated the IRA had made no concrete commit­ments toward disarming. 

The major Protestant party within the power-sharing Cabinet, the Ulster Unionists, had agreed to form the four­party coalition -which includes the IRA-linked Sinn Fein -only on condition that IRA start getting rid of weapons. 
Mandelson disclosed Wednesday that the disarma­ment committee might issue a further report before the end of the week. which could buy the British government some time if it contained any posi­tive news. 
"In that context. I would make this appeal to the lead­ers of all the political parties in Northern Ireland -that they shouldn't close their minds to any further develop­ments," he said. ''Nobody wants any of the political par­ties to walk away from the peace process, because we want this to work." 
The Ulster Unionists have scheduled a meeting Saturday for grassroots members to vote whether to remain in the 12-member Cabinet. 
Forming another adminis­tration would prove extremely difficult, since it would require a new election in Northern Ireland. 

Interested in "running your own business" in a challenging, fast-paced environment with unlimited growth opportunities? Target headquarters is hiring entry-level Business Analyst Executives for our corporate offices in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota. Join Target executives Cathy David (ND '85) and Paul Burke (ND '98) in the Montgomery Theater at the LaForrune Student Center on February 10th at 7:00 pm for a casual presentation and reception-we'll have treats and prizes! We'll be interviewing for the Business Analyst position on February 11th. Sign up through the Career and Placement Center. ® TARGET CORPORATE CAREERS 
www.targct,corn 

r [ 
VIEWPOINTt 
' 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Thursday, February 10, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
l' 0 !lox Q. Norre o.,m,. IN ~.6556 024 Sourb Dining f-LilL Nmre D,une. IN 16556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krup'1 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINE.SS MANAGER  
M. Sh.11111011 Ryan  David Rogern  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laur:1 Perelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIBWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen Sl'0RTS EDITOR: Bri.rn Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Mkhael Vaneg.,s SAINT MARYS EDITOR, Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalurn 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: bryan Lutz 
AD Of.SIGN MANAGER, Brer Hud,r SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mid1ad Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER, Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe llfoeller 
CONTACT Us OFFICE ~AGER/GENERAL INFO .. ........ 631-7471 FAX... .. .............. 631-6927 .ADVERTISING.......... ................631-6900/&840 
ohscrver@darwin.ccnd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.... . ...............631-4542 MANAGING EDIT0RIAs.sT. ME ................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS........................ ................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.... . ......... ... .. .. ........ 631-5303 observer. viewpoin L l@nd.edu SPORTS...................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.. ................................................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARYS ..... ...................... 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.... ... . . .. ............................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ..............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llohseroer.ndedtt for daily updates ofcampus news, spom, features and opinion columns, as well a.s cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for 
weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews 
minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
artides published atier 
to meer the editors .md 
August 1999 
sraff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNoue Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial concenr, induding adverti.semenrs, is nor governed hy policies of rhe administration ofeither inscirurion. The Observer reserves rhe right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurate!)' and ob1euivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of rhe Ediror in O1ief, Managing Edicor, A.ss1stanr Managing Edicor and deparrrnenc edirors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the vlews of rhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer, 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Edicor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Q11~stior11 rera1-ding Obsen,er policies should be direct­ed w Editor in ChiefMich,11, Knptl. 


Let sick students through the gate! 
Going to the Health Center for medical treatment is apparently no easy task. For those who do not already know. off-cam­pus students must walk half a mile from the parking lots or wait at the call box for security to provide a ride (assuming one is too ill to walk). In no case is a student allowed to drive to the building -this requires permitting the student with the privilege of driving a vehicle on campus. 
The woman at the gate mumbled to me the options available, lowered the bar before me (a deterrent I suppose), closed her window and ignored me until I left. 1 had no intention of waiting in the cold and snow for a security officer, so it was either the visitor's lot by the library or the lots by the JACC. 
Influenced by the impetus for my jour­ney to the Health Center, I spontaneously called campus security to disr:uss the matter. Well, I am sure you can imagine how uninterested, uninformative and insulting the conversation went for me. I do not want sympathy for my little walk, only improvement on a system that actu­ally disservices those for which it suppos­edly exists. Of r,ourse, I heard how busy the gates are and the number of students who will say anything to get on campus {before noon on a Monday, what a securi­ty risk!). There is also the legitimate con­cern over parking space. 
I suggested some form of control given the effective means of confirming a visit to the Health Center; students all register at the front desk before receiving any medical attention. The security oflicial lit­erally chuckled at me for being foolish enough to believe that there is a way to check on whether or not a student attends the Health Center after gaining access to campus. The detached voice went on to "inform" me that the truly sick thank the gate worker and freely accept the long walk while the truly healthy get infuriated at security. By this time, I gave up on the conversation. The official was neither surprised nor concerned when I informed her that I was calling from the Health Center and extremely dissatisfied. This deviation from the "norm" fell on deaf ears. 

My question is, why is this such a strained relationship? It seems security could care less about the students: the less, the better. They witness emotion in a driver and perr,eive it as an indication of a lie to get on to the campus? Surely the investigative capabilities of these individ­uals are obviously unimpressive to us all. 
Maybe you too know of a HA who sneaks anything desired onto campus or the infamous "someone who knows someone." Many others manipulate the system by using the right to drive a female student back to her dorm. Limited parking and alcohol are apparently the problems. The current solution is to deny anyone unlucky enough to not be able to pull strings access to the place we pay to attend. 
Conversation with a nurse at the Health Center informed me that she too walked from the library. My status as a student compels me to place our rights first. but it is unwise to ignore the rights of the work­ers on campus. Politics aside the issue is troublesome. Campus size is not increas­ing, but the number of buildings and the number of students (as well as workers to fill those buildings) are on the rise. 
Parking lots, however functional, do not add value to a visit to Notre Dame. Aside from asking the ultimate question of for whom does this not-for-profit organiza­tion cater its offerings, the issue of access to campus remains. How many students and parents knew this before enrollment? One might cast aside all hope, except that complacency is not a trait a university of this level should endorse. 
In the example of the Health Center, it seems students could r,all ahead to get an appointment and the Health Center could call the appropriate gate with a name and time for access. A simple one strike, you're out rule would eliminate the potential for frequent abuse of such a sys­tem by the compulsory liars security sees in us all. Yes, the gates are busy. Maybe the answer is quicker service and more flexibility. After all, students already attempt to get on campus quite often. If it is "no" to most students and "no" to most workers, then why allow the charade to continue with those volatile conversa­tions? Letting more people in quicker would shorten that line of cars signifi­cantly. Security knows our address and car registration. Together with an ID, this confirms one's legitimate status. For des­tinations that rer,ord one's presence ­like the Health Center -security r,an monitor the truth in the proclaimed desti­nation. 
Failure to adhere? More fines would suffir:e. Hey, at least this gives incentive to tell the truth {present conditions provide incentives to lie to security until they lift that orange bar). The timing of acr,ess passes and parking lot surveys are impor­tant considerations. However. if security has enough time to pick me up and drive me to a building, then they have enough time to undertake these tasks (ever won­der what security does all day?). 
There are ways to assure that those who tell the truth are driving to where they say. Semrity told me ofno plans of anything like this and prodaimed zero tolerance was the best policy. 
Given this unwillingness to change, given students' tendencies to lie, given the safety enjoyed by all on r,ampus, I feel that some cases (not necessarily all) war­rant allowing students the right to drive a vehicle on the r,ampus paid for in part by our tuitions. On my biased list. medical attention deserves much more leniency. If at noon on a Monday one cannot drive to the Health Center, when and where are the appropriate time and destinations? Next time I will use those. 
David Buckley 
senior, off-campus 
February 9, 2000 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
__c_Y_N_I_c_s_A._N_O_N_Y_M_o_u_s__ ~ r--'.::=A"::"LL~I~N"::"F~A.~V~O~R"::""::'."O"::"F~-,i 


l
MY COMPANY 5ENT 
If
ME HERE TO REGA.IN MY NA.IVE 5ENSE OF 
• 
e 
8 
t: 
f 
MAKE SURE YOU 
USING DIL BEP.T'5 
SIGN UP FOR. 
COMPANY-PAID t; 
OUR GAMBLING 
DUES ON BEER, SAY A.YE. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When I was young there was no respect for the young, and now that I am old there is no respect for the old. I missed out coming and going" 
Joseph B. Priestly scientist and philosopher 

----------------------~--------------------19111! 
VIEWPOINT 

Thursday, February I0, 2000 
page 13 
ENDORSEMENT 
Vote for Hanover /Micek 

Wilh cnthusi,~sm. a commitment to PmpDwering studrnts and divnrsity-of exp1~riPnni. l!unt Hanover and John Min\k lmvP Llw creative. rnalistic vision to kad NolrP Dame's stud<ml govern­ment and studnnt bodv in 2000-01. 
In a year when studirnts genrrnlly foel uni11f"or11wd and und('r-rcpn•sented, Hanovpr and MicPk combinP plans for carnpus-widP programs with a promisn Lo voir1· slUdents' opinions and prot<:ct thpir rights 
Calling l'or campus unity. proactive dialugtw and inf'rcascd student s(-Wvicns, this tickrt's idras am innnvativ0 yet fea­sibln. Thr Obsl'rv<H· rndorscs llunt llanovr:r and John Min•k !'or studl'nt body pn'sidrnl and vic11 pr11sident. 
In llwir intrrvirw with Tim Obs11rver, tlwst' ranclidat11s provnd informed and t-mgaging. Not rontenl simply to dnal with unfinished or unrealiz1'd tasks of pn'vious administrations, tlw pair off<•n~d inv<•nth <' ideas to drab problems and n,rogniz1)d areas or the University untoudwcl by stt,1den L-govnrnment. 
Tlwir call for &Stucll'.11t's /\cacll~mi<: Bill or Hights shows ,,:nmmitment to tlw 
11 
University's educational mission as well as concern for fainrnss across depart­mental and class boundaries. Their dedi, cation to issues like eatil'lg disorders, the Women's Resource Center, 24-hour space. diversity and press rights means they haven't limited the possible extent of' their influ<'nce. 
Ilanover and Micek also are committed to increasing communication among stu­d!·nts. administrators, Cacultv ,rnd stu­dent govl'rnment by improvi~g personal and Internet contact. Their own ability to communicate wiLh each other as good frirmds l'nrthP.r demnnstratrs their com­mitment to honest and effective commu­nication. 
Thry promise to C'cho the students' voice to University leaders -something they believe lhe Murphy/Palumbo admin­
\s'tration genorally fails to do -and to make students aware of pending deci­sions regarding student life. Calling for a student member on the Board of TrustPes. these-candidates realistically see barriers to that goal: in the r.ase a student trustee is not appointed, they plan to work with young-alumni trustees to offer current students· views to the board. 
While both have extensive student gov­ernment experience, Hanover and Micek have trod in rPalms of tho Notn' Dami; community often not traversed by tradi­tional student representatives. involved in varsity athletks -Hanover in basket­ball and Micek in golf -and active in clubs and organizations. these candi­dates offer knowledge of' the community unavailable to most employees of LaFortune's second 11oor. 
Hanover, a junior finance and govern­ment major, currrntly serves as assistant chief of' staff for the Murphy/Palumbo adminbtration. He has served-on junior class council, as sophomore class presi­dent and led freshman religious and diversiLy retreats. A -St. Edward's Hall resident, Hanover also heads tho chess club. 
A finance major, Micek is junior class president. Ile served as Keough Hall co­president as a sophomore and is a tutor in South Bend's Hispanic community outreach program, El Buen Vecino. 
While this ticket boasts extensive expe­rience in programming, IIanover/Micek does lack the policy-making knowledge of other tickets. including O'Oonoghue/Norton and Osborne/Donahey. This should not prove detrimental to the team's overall objec­tives if educated appointments are Ilanover/Micek's first order of business. 

Surrounded by people who have worked extensively with the student union constitution, Hanover and Micek will expedite their plans, making imple­mentation of projects like "The Shirt" for men's and women's basketball and free tutoring for all students more probable. 
Hanover and Micek recognize students' current discontent with their lack of inlluence in University decisions and the growing need for augmented campus services. A strong, dynamic team, they are dedicated to tackling campus issues in a realistic, timely and innovative man­ner. 
Their commitment to excellence secures Hanover and Micek as the best candidates to represent Notre Dame's student body in the first years of the new millennium. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
SMC voters: Quit whining, act like ladies 
Wn hav<' always be1~n proud to attc'nd Saint Mary's College. It is an institution that is foundPd on Catholic moral belinl's and a str:ong sense of unity throughout the stu­dent body. However th<' recent stu­dent body president and vice presi­dent elections have brought f'orth a romplctcly opposite atmosphere to our campus. 
lt is impossiblri to walk to class. lo haw a rn1~al in the dining hall. or even to sit in the peace and quiet of one's own room without listening to members uJ' our: "unified" sLudent body trashing tlw four girls who wanted nothingimore than to help the very people who arc putting them down. Wn would like to tak!' this chancn to s,ly sonrnthing to the studl'nl body lhat wn werP once so proud to bP a part of'. The mudsling­ing that has bP<'ll occu,-ring on this campus in LhP past few days has been atrnrious. flow can any of'you who arP not closP to th<' pPople involved in any ol' tlw tickets sprak so Vt'henwnlly against Lhrm'? 
Tlwrn haY!' b(1Pn rnanv rumors about llw mudslinging oi· students. Th«'I'!' hav1'. b1:Pn spinPless and anonymous phorn· mnss,q,:cs lrf'L 
r with llen,wr/Nagle supporters which usnd PXLl'!'lllely nxplicit languagP. Tlll' comm1•nts mad1· bv manv a sfu­dr.nl al Saint Mary's h,~vP be~n 0111 or l.ine and unfounded. So, to th<· many girls who seem to havP so many hateful words to say about the elrction and its proc:ess: Thi· election proccs::; was butcllcd; this is truf~. Howrvcr. ar,r,ording Lo thn bylaws. it was up to the Elections Commillee to make the final decision after the lie last Wcd1rnsday. Hules are ruins and thny am not 1wgoliablr,, Then:i are manv laws in the United States that rould lw se(\Il as unfair. but are expr.ctcd Lo bn followed ·with no exceptions. II' they arP not followed, then p<'ople get.hurt. That is what tlrny are there for. In this situation. the rules \Wn: nut followed, and pr,opl!~ got hurt. It is a shanrn that a h,1stv and careltiss dncision Ho bold anoL-hor elertionl mad,i by Lim inap­
propriate committee. who is not a member of' the student body, would turn so many women against each other. 
The bad press that Saint Mary's has reci-ived on sexuality, smoking and bitter fighting is ridiculous. We are doing it to nurselves. Saint Mary's is a women's coll<•ge whose number one priority is "to promote tlw Nluralion or women in the tradition ol' intellectual vigor. aesthet­ic apprecia­tion. religious sensibility, and social rnsponsibili­ty," according to the Saint f\lary's mission statemenl. vVe need to uphold these traditions, not make it impo-ssible for ourselves to be seen as responsible, mature and l'lite women. 
Both tickets in this race were qualified and impressive. We should feel lucky to have a group of women who are willing and able tu repre­sent Saint Mary's to the rest of lhe \\oriel. \Ve havn that luxury. Many rolleges don't So be proud that you have such an impressive group of' people who am prepared to repre­sent you, do not belittle them. If' you are not qualified to make the com­ments that you are making, keep vour mouth shut. · lL is an embarrassment to hear the petty. inappropriate and disrnspect­l'ul comments that have been so ardently voiced throughout the Saint Mary's campus. The election is over. The decision has been made. To all the women who have been whining about this election -STOP IT. If you can constructively criticize in the right places at the right time and to the right people, then by all means do so. If not. keep your rude and audacious comments to yourself'. You are ladies; act like it. 

Angela Agness Kathryn Sherman 
Juniors Saint Mary's College February 8, 2000 

Thanks for gay speak-out 
I am writing to applaud Saint Mary's for having the decency to allow its lesbian alumnae the opportunity to come back on campus to share their stories. 
When l first decided to go listen to the alumnae panel speaking I felt apprehensive -would 1be made to feel uncomfortable? Would people think I was gay? Would I be the only student there? When I left I felt enlightened -as well as ashamed of my own previously unknown prejudices. 
Identity Week was just a small step in the changes that need to be made. So many times heterosexuals take for granted the rights they have that the gay community is lacking. The right to marry the person one chooses. to have significant others placed on health insurance plans and to be true to oneself without having to worry about being mocked. spit on, hurt or even killed for per­sonal views. Especially important is the right not to be labeled and have that label care­lessly thrown around as a hateful insult. 
People need to think next time they refer to something as gay, retarded. Jewish, queer, etc., about the individuals they could inadvertently be offending. 
There are unbelievable stories about the biases the courageous w'omen I heard speak, as wPII as other members of the gay population, have been forced to endure. There is so much heartache and pain. And why? Because some choose to live their lives outside the realm ofsociety's ideals'! 
Being a pro-choice agnostic I understand what it is like not to fit in. I cannot even fathom how these women must have felt. Acceptance is key. I urge people to see beyond their stereotypical ideals and acknowledge no one can categorize what it is to love. That there are others -people that eat, sleep, breathe and cry just as they do -that live slightly different lifestyles. But that they are still people deserving of our respect, approval and understanding. Please put an end to this wasteful intoler­ance of humanity's differences and celebrate our uniqueness. 
Jessica Needles 
FreshmJn Regina Hall February 7, 2000 



-~•....-,..._.--~ -------· -....... .......-----------------·---­

T H 
E R 
page 14 Thursday, February 10, 2000 
Wherefore art thou , Shak 
Paul Rathburn brings Shakespearean theater into the mainstream of Mi 
By JEAN McCUE 
S'-em: Wrirer 
Culturn. al Notr,~ Dame? Enthusiasm for thr>. fine arts might seem laughabln at a uni-. versitv better known for its football tf'arn than its drnma program. where '"W\,\'F Smackdown'' has a larger following than "Masterpiece Theatre." But Paul lfathhurn, an award-winning faculty member in the English depart­ment, has been working with a dc'\dirnt­ed team of administrators, profrssors, theater profossionals. alumni, students and commllnity volunteers to change 
Summer Shakespeare Festival 2000 
. 
Where: Notre Dame 

. 
When: July 17 to Aug. 6 

. 
Auditions: Sunday, 12:30 p.m. -3 p.rn.; Monday, 7 p.m. -9 p.rn. 


deserted dorms; silent DeBartolo lec­ture halls; Lwo fanatical chemists in Stepan who havP not yet realized that school ended for the summer: and ... a major Shakespeare festival in Washington Hall'? 
Has Notre Dame entered an alternate universe? lfardly! The Shakespeare Festival 2000 is actually the result of an energetic movement to bring live Shakespearean theater annually to Notre Dame and the greater South Bend r,omrnunity. At the heart of this summer's inaugural festival are six per­formances of "The Taming of the Shrew," opening Aug. 2 through Aug. 6. 
The primary goal of the summer Shakespeare Festival is to merge liter­ary Shakespearean scholarship with dramatic performance, or, as Rathburn defines it, "the marriage of 'Shakespeare in the study' to 'Shakespeare on the stage."' Rathburn challenges the long-standing "war" between academics and theater profes­sionals as absurd. convinr,ed that the two approarhes were 
people.
meant to be united. In "This is the most exciting 
Wondering why
order to fully appreci­
moment in the history of Washington Hall sat
ate the complexity of Shakespeare's work. Notre Dame theater. " empty and unused all 
summer, Rathburn
his plays must be both seized upon the possi­
studied as literary 
Paul Rathburn bility of using the stagetexts and seen in dra­
artistic director-producer for a summer theater
matic performance. 
Rathburn has long advocated this combined approar.h to studying Shakespeare. He has taught the playwright twice for the Notre Dame London program. where students were privileged to study thoroughly several plays over the semester, attend various stage productions and even to speak with actors following-the perfor­mances. But Rathburn felt these experi­ences should not be limited to London. Bark in South Bend. he thought about creating a course that incorporated both the academir. and theatrical approaches to ShakPspearean studies. 
In 1989, thanks lo a Lily Endowment Grant for the development of new courses. Hathburn designed an experi­mental class entitled "Shakespeare in Performanre." Founded on the idea that Shakespeare's works arc theatrical scripts as well as literary texts, the course required students to perform four times each semester. 
Convinced that the class ought to be team-taught by a Shakespearean schol­
this campus culture pho­
bia. 
Have you ever won­dered what goes on at Notre Dame after stu­dents leave in May? You might pir­ture dark, 
program, and the 
seeds of the Shakespeare Festival 2000 
started to germinate. 
Rathburn enthuses, and his energy is .contagious: "This is the most exciting 
moment in the history of Notre Dame 
theater!" 
Through the Shakespeare Initiative, 
six dynamic theatrical events are con­
verging upon the normally staid Notre 
Dame campus. Not only is the 
University construrling a new perform­
ing arts center. but the initiative 
intends to insure that Shakrspoare 
becomes an integral part of university 
life, enriching both LhP undergraduate 
edur.ation and the community's cultural 
resources. 
In addition to building Lhf' center for 
performing arts, the Shakespeare 
Initiative includes five major compo­
nents. In July of 2000, the renowned 
professional repertory company ACTEH 
(A Center for Theatre Education and 
Research) will change its operational 
home from thr, University of North 


This is Washington Hall, a full Washington Hall. One of the primary reasons for the Summer Shakespeare Festival 2000 is to fill the emptiness of Washington Hall during the summer months. The festival will run from July 17 until Aug. 6. 
ar and a theater veteran to fully explore the material, Hathburn enlisted the help of professional drama coach Carol MacLeod, a retired Broadway actress who also claimed television and film credits. The incredibly popular course soon required a student audition to par­ticipate. 
The success of "Shakespeare in Performance" inspired Rathburn to think bigger, and he began dreaming of a project that could bring Shakespeare 
to an even greater 
number of 
Carolina to Notre Dame. 

The 25-year-old organization. ro­founded by Patrick Stewart and mem­bers ol' the Royal Shakespearean Company, embodies the combined liter­ary/theatrical approach to Shakespeare. The group annually sponsors perform­ers from Great Britain who travel the 
U.S. as "Actors from the London Stage," performing and teaching in university classrooms. Notre Dame will host 10 actors in residence each year -five per semester -and Notre Dame will serve as the home base for ACTEH's national tour. 
Secondly, the Initiative is developing a named Chair in Shakespeare/ACTEH for performance and dramatic literature. who will function as ACTEH's artistir director. The Chair will research, pub­lish and teach in the field and partic­ipate in the direction of Notre Dame produrtions of the works of Shakespeare and his contemporaries. 
Third. the initiative provides for an endowed Suminer Shakespeare Festival at Notre Dame, which is currrmtly being developed by Hathburn. The sum­
mer festival intends "We're building something at large. Summer to apprentice stu­Notre Dame oflasting value, Shakespeare at 
dents from Notre Notre Dame will
for the good ofthe entire 
Dame and other invite the surround­national universities community.·· ing community's to prof'essional involvement with actors. the University as
Paul Rathburn
The endowed fund audifmce members.
artistic director-producer
for guest lecturers performers and stu­
and performers comprisns the initia­tive's fourth leg, and would enable the University to attract prominent speak­ers from the theater community. such as Sir Derek .Jacobi. the mentor and acting instructor of Kenneth Branagh, or the incomparable Dame Judi D.ench to perform and interact with students. 
The fund would also allow Notre Dame to host noted Shakespearean scholars to give lectures and seminars, and would provide an invaluable oppor­tunity to hear the field's leading critics and experts. Finally, the $1 million Library Endowment would be used to enhance the University's collection of Shakespeare-related documents and scholarship, and funds would permit Notre Dame faculty to take a more prominent role in the international world of Shakespearean scholarship. 
One might assume this project could simply continue to elevate the level of the moat separating Notre Dame from South Bend, but don't dismiss it as another elitist academic event. Part of the program's mission is to make live Shakespearean performance arcessible to as many people as possible through­out Michiana. 
"We're building something at Notre Dame of lasting value, for the good of the entire community," Rathburn said. 
Clearly, Notre Dame has disrovered a project to break down the barriers 
between itself and 
the community at 
dents. 

The project includes a three-week Shakespeare camp from July 17 through Aug. 6 for 48 to 64 local and national high school students. After auditioning in early June. students accepted to the program will begin an intensive two-week rehearsal period in July, spending the 


...----------~-------.--------------­
a special section about candidates and issues 

Student Government 

• 
ec l 

~HE

Vl)SERVER Thursday, February 10, 2000 
From 'Darth' to devoted, candidates run the gamut 
A number of fringe tickets hope 
to widen debate 
By HELENA RAYAM 
News Wrncr 
From experience to enthusiasm to flvil intentions. candidates !'or student body pn:sidenl and vice president prepare to usr their best assrts to win thfl elnction. or at least to havr fun. 
"We'rn nvil and evil will alwavs will bccausP good is dumb." said presidential rnndidalP Tudd Warapius. who µr.,J'crs to bP rnllPd "Darth Todd." \Varapius. along with his vie(' pr1\side11t running mate. "Darth" CeorgP Coppinger, have a Star \Vars lheme !'or their campaign. 
··vcs. we an' running for the fun or it. but ,rn arc lrying to point out sonw of the problr.ms on thP campus," said \Varapius. 
"We're fighting against J. Crr.w and Dave MatthPws." said Coppingnr. 
Aside from battles with mainstream i('.(JJ1S. thP pair wanL-; student govt>rnment tu bl' more• active· and !"or all student issues to rm·1,ivP "due, c:ovnrage." 
UltimalPly, Coppinger said, ..Wr,'re look­ing to reprcsPnt Lhc kind or p1:oplP Lhat will volt' for us." 
Presidential rnndidate Chris Costigan, running vvith Patrick McCormirk, also want changes in student government. 
"lt really snems like the studr,nt govern­ment is this little clique [that passes] use-
see GAMUT/page 7 



Lack of female, minority participation marks race 
. Only one woman "Notre Dame is a patriar­University. The administration 
chal campus," said Norton's is primarily male, primarilyruns in pack of 20 running mate,. Keough Hall white," said senior Michael candidates senator Brian O'Donoghue. Fierro, assistant chief of staff 
He explained that the and executive coordinator of 
University's president must be multicultural relations for the By ERIN LaRUFFA a male because a priest must Office of the Student Body N~vs \X'rirer fill the posi-President. He 
tion, and that is also the Recentlv, '.'Jotre Dame stu­constant "I think it's time more Campus Life dents have expressed a need presence of a Council's 
women take on a 
to promote diversity on cam­man in power chair for 
pus. could con­leadership role on this diversity. But if the upcoming student tribute to a campus. 'Tm wait­body president elections are generally ing for the any indication, students them­male-led day that 
Brooke Norton 
selves a.re not ma.king minori­campus. there's a ties more visiblt>. "I think it's vice presidential candidate female presi­Of 20 candidates currently 
time more dent of the 
running for student body women take student prnsident or vice prnsident. on a leadership role on this body," he said. "Notre Dame only one -vice presidential 
campus," said Norton, sopho­went co-ed about 25 years more class vice president. She ago. I think it's about time."
candidate Hrooke Norton -is added that she had not While Notre Dame has had
female. At a University that is expected to be tho only female female vice presidents. includ­almost 50 percent female, in the election. ing" Andrea Selak last year, no "You have to take a look at
why aren't more women run­ning'? 

the structure of the see WOMEN/page 7 
Election Day 

The endorsement
The great debate 
Monday, Feb. 14 

. Wllat: Candidate debates 
in a field of IO tickets, one stands out as
Dn•campus students: Vote in residence halls.from 11

. Wllere: LaFortune Ballroom 
the team that will best tackle
a.m. -1 p.m., andfrom s -7 p.m. 

. Wilen: 3 p.m., Sunday, 
undergraduate issues.
Off-campus students: Vote in the C1 parking lot from 

Feb. r3 
Viewpoint . page 13 
I I a.m. -5.30 p.m. 


Candidates hit the campaign trail Wednesday to try to gain the support of students campuswide. Presidential candidate Joseph Shepherd and running mat(' Jim Focht (above) talk politics with two Lyons rnsidents. Presidential candidate Brian ()'Donoghue (right! ponders a di11icult question from a Breen-Phillips resident. Several candidates are going door-to-door in hopes ol' adding a personal touch to their appeal during the campaigning p(!riod. Tickets could begin campaign artivitirs Tuesday morning and contimw through Sunday night. ThP primary eh\ction will bP lwld Monday. 
photos by PETER RICHARDSON 


EDITORIAL COMMENTARY 

Last year's leaders, this year's candidates lack vision 
Ten tickets will compete for your vote Monday. Some arc experienced. some are fresh, some are just plain wacky. But what none of' them can do is combine student government know-how with a ·vision or what this great University should be. 
Many of' the lesser-known candidates want to voice stu­dent the potMtial to ar,t as a voir,e for the students, but the election pror:ess and the com­plicated nature of Student Union leadership will make it nearly impossible for any of those tickets to emerge victori­ous. And. unfortunately, few of these candidates are running to win. 
Several tickets have the typi­cal student government experi­ence on their resume: Student Senate. class ofncer, ser.tion leader, etc. But unfortunatelv, these tickets come out of a sys­tem that. in recent years, has created followers instead of leaders. These juniors have too often spent thP last two yPars looking up to presidencies that focused on minor initiatives. such as onlin,1 book buying and planning pep rallies. These conveniences are nice, and they do make life at Notre Dame a litLle better, but they do not suffice when it r.omes to motivating students for impor­tant change. 
It was telling in their inter­views with The Observer all lO tickets focused on the specitic, 
Too often, students are expected to choose from a roster ofcandidates who fall into two categories: unqualified visionaries and qualified people who lack vision. 
an<l minor, plalform planks that they hoped to systemati­r.ally implement to entertain or pacify students. None put forth a philosophy of how to r,hange Notre Dame. None discussed how to truly make this school a better place. 
None had vision. 
Too often, students are expected to choose from a ros­ter of candidates who fall into 

two categories: unqualified visionaries and qualified peo­ple who lack vision. Student alienation f'rorn the student government process only emphasizes the frustrations caused by this choice. Whether 
it is because our leaders do not listen, or because they do not act. the majority of the students tune out the student government. 
No one in the undergraduate student body has been here long enough to remember a strong, effective leader work­ing on the second t1oor. of Larortune. As a result, none of the candidates has a strong, effective example to follow. One of them must take the lead and set an example if stu­
dent government is ever going to rise above the petty policy squabbles and minor program­ming initiatives that have characterized the past several years. 
The "accomplishments" of the last two administrations has been an uninspiring litany of basketball pep rallies, improved Student Union coop­eration and a lot of barbecues. Their legacy is uninspiring presidential candidates who do not aspire to become more than that. 
It has been too long since the students had a true leader in the student body president's ol'flce. We hope this year's winner, whoever it is, will prove, or learn, to be one. 

Thursday, February 10, 2000 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 page 3 
Murphy, Palumbo reflect on year in office 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Ediror 
/\ftf!r their running mates bowed uut or tht> elections last Ft• br u a r v cu r r r n t st ude n t body prr~i'. 
d<'nt. Micah Murphy 
and vice~ pr<~sidcnt Mic-ha e I Palumbo W!'r(' thrown tognther 


almost bv Murphy chance. • 
Tlw two student government votPrans unitPd and Wf'nl on to v.in a landslid<' victDry, SWPPping into officp with more than !'.i4 percnnt of the vote in tlw Pight-lick<ll primary field. 
But th11 11 tlwv had to v..-ork tog<' lhrr. · 
Thr pair has spent much of lhP y0ar in officP focusing on specific int.crrsts. Palumbo has st<H.Jrf'd Student Snnat.e thr1Jugh complPx debat11s and compliral<~d l,~gislation. wbi!P Murphy has work<'d to improw studc\nt servicns and plan events l'or the gtrnr1ral stucl<rnt population. 
Murphy said differing back­grounds was one of the pair's strongest qualities. 
"We're two totally diff<'rent types of people." he said. "And that's probably one our grr.at­est stnmgths." 
IIn noted tlwir different per­sonalities and inter<~sts as bcn­Pfits to th(' olTicP as a whole. but manv studnnts. and some studPnl IPadPrs saw thP offict~ lack strong lt:adership and a l'ull undrrslanding of students' n1!eds. 
"Micah and MikP haw a dil'­f'Prt!nt understanding of what rnlP the OtTirP of tlw PrC'sident is supposPd to rill." said one s <' n ator. w h o noted that !'alum bo has bl'Pn nnire aggn'ssivt' in taking a stand on rontrovPrsial issut•s such as Tht> ObsPrver's inckpendPnce. 
.. Mir il h · s mo rt• r on c«' r n t' d with studf'nt srrvic'('s." thP sPnator said. "II(• dtwsn·t want to gt'l his hands dirty." 
SPVl'ral prnsidential tickets hav1· pirkt!d up on this. espe­cially pointing to the small number of' resolutions which 
CLC and Senate have passed this ynar. 
"Last year, [Murphy and Palumbo\ did absolutelv noth­ing.'' said presidential· candi­date Chris Costigan. llis senli­ments are echoed by a number of tickets, whuse plans !'or the presidency are more ambitious. if perhaps less practi­cal. lhan Murphy 
a n d 
Palumbo·s. 
E v e n Palumbo. however. said the office, al times, had "no direction." 
To its cr1!dit, this adminis­tration's term saw few major campus issues like the Big Ten and non-discrimination dausf' decisions. which galvanized student opinion 1998-99. Whl'n issues did aris~!, how0v­cr. statements from Murphy's office were few and far bPtwcen. 

ln November. when the Senate debated a resolution supporting The Observer's frendom from University regu­Under the leadership of student body president Micah Murphy (seated) and vice president lations on advertising. the Michael Palumbo (standing), student government has had an up and down year. president's office hesitated to 
in hiring a commissioner did response to the proposed are to be realized.
make a statement. 

enable the Transportation norms for Catholic Universities For instance, this semester's
Murphy and Palumbo also 

Committee to develop a strong recommended by Ex Corde Board of Trustees report con­
have had difficulty implement­

plan that will, he hopes. enable Ecclesiae. It addressed a num­cerns student representation
ing student services. 

SafeRide to run more efficient­b er of issues regarding· on University committees. ItAfter SafeRide stopped oper­
ly than it did in its previous Catholicism at Notre Dame. will take a long time for stu­
ating last spring, the Office of 

two years. including religion of faculty dent leaders to make a con­the President formed a com-The administration had its and Campus Ministry pro­crete difference on that issue.
mittee to high points, grams. but Murphy expressed opti­

studv the free however, and Trustees adopted a number mism that his report was a

lat~-nighl 'Tm confident that a lot 

the pair point­of the report's recommenda­good first step.
transport ser­ofthe stuffwe've done ed to the Fall tions. according to Murphy, 'Tm confident that a lot of

virn and find a 

and will do will happen Board of and they still are considering the stuff we've done and will
way to rnstart Trustees others. do will happen and will do

it. More than and will do some goodfor 

Heport -on "They engaged in dialogue. some good for the University."
a semester 

the University." the Catholic and at times was heated. he said.
latr,r. howev­

character of which is good because it There is still work to be
Pr. the srrvice Notre Dame shows they were interested in done, however, the current

is still not up Micah Murphy 

-as one. our report," he said. office holders said. especially
and running. 
student body president 

"I think the They have also worked suc­regarding diversity and gender
and a nr.w 

topic was per­cessfully in increasing commu­relations. They both hope theircommissioner 
tinent." Palumbo said. "When I nication among Student Union successors will take up the
was hired onlv last Mondav. 

went into [the Trustees meet­organizations and encouraging mantle of improving race rela­"'WP wanted it Lo come Llp in 
ing!. I haven·t heard that many groups to work together tions at Notre Dame and con­/\pril." l'alumbo said. "We compliments in a long time ... through co-sponsorship of tinue to work to improve eat­
WNP. having a hard time get­fthey] were like 'we're events. ing disorders counseling.

ting voluntr,prs. Maybe we 

researching this too, we'd like Murphy and Palumbo also "Being honest," Palumbo
didn't get the ball moving 

your input."' point to their efforts to lay the said, "you 're never going to bequick enough on the whole sys­
The report was released in groundwork on several issues absolutely finished."
tem. The proposal as it stands 
October. as the University was that should be continued by
now is great." 
formulating its official next year's president if they
Murphy added that the delay 



Executive Cabinet 

. 
The chir~f'<~( slaj(. IJPC co-chairs, class presidents. off-campus 1.·0-presi­denls. SI Jfi /Joard manayer, SUB progrwn­mint/ director, club coordinator the Studenl Union Treasurer ancl fiue club council representalir.>l'S sf/. un the /;'xcculiue Cahinel. 

. 
Thi' presid!'nl chairs this body, which is responsible for coordinating the daily operations, priorities and programming of the Student Union. 


THE STUDENT UNION 
Student body president Student Senate 
. 
One representalil'e from each hall sits on the Senate, along with one off-cctmpw; represenlati11e. 

. 
The Senate. which is chaired by the studnit /Jody vice president, is respunsihle for formulating and ctdram:ing the position of the undergraduate student hody on rampus issues. 

. 
The Senate is also responsible for establishing Student Union fis­cal policies and for overseeing the operations ofthe Union. 


Judicial Council 
. The Judicial Council is responsible for overseeing elections and 
peer-advocacy programs. 

Treasurer's Office 
. 
1hr Student Union treasurer is responsihle for disbursing undergradu­ate student organization jimds and ensuring that Student Union organiza­tions adhere to jtscal policy. 

. 
The treasurer chairs the Financial Management Board, which makes fund­ing recommendations for clubs and orga­nizations. 


page 4 The ObJerver . ELECTION 2000 Thursday, February 10, 2000 
Chris  Patrick  
Costigan  McCormick  
sophomore, government major  junior, biology major  
Zahm Hall  Zahm Hall  

Experience 
Costigan is Zahm's fundrnising chairman and has SC'rvcd on that dorm's freshman orientation f,()ffimittee. Last summer, he v\orked as an inde­pen den l consultant for IBM. McCormick is Zahm's secretary, captain of the dorm's interhall baseball team and coordinator of a dorm volun­tef'r program. 
Platform goals 
. 
To oust tlw band from its s!'ats at baskotball games and to offer thosn seats to students 

. To provide cable TV service in dorm rooms 

. 
To allow all Notre Dame students to buy foot­ball tickets before Saint Mary's students pur­chase theirs 


Best idea 
To inform students of administrative plans and programs well before their implementation 
Worst idea 
Ridding dining halls of Yo-Cream machines because of their perception or false advertising: "We think it really has fat." 
Most feasible idea 
Orticial orga11iza1ion of Zahm vs. campus snow­ball !1ght on the night of the season's first snow­fall 
Least feasible Idea 
A du Lac-l"reH d:ty: students will mako a. chari­table donation in return for t'rPedom to disregard ruh;.s o!' tlw student handbook lih the prohi.bilion of" kegs on campus. 
Thr:sc candidat<~s believe that whil1\ voters arc apt to choose candidates with ''nicn" promis,is. like morn 24-hour space and programs aimod at campus unity. constiluents roally want fun. Thus, they suggPst construction of a freshman bar, a duLac-free day and an Otis Day and the Knights concert {those guys who jammed in Animal House} 
This ticket's lighthearted focus is exciting. but its plans are impossible to implement. Candidates' lack of' governing experience outside Zahm also shows limited knowledge of student life and lack of motivation to move beyond the walls of their home dorm to influence tho Notre Dame community. 



Hunt 
Hanover 
junior, finance & government major St. Edward's Hall 

Matthew  Adam  
Flatow  Dinnell  
First Year, intended government major  First Year, intended science major  
Zahm Hall  Zahm Hall  

Experience 
Flatow is a sr,ction leader in Zahm; Dinnel is his assistant. In high school, Flatow was Spanish club prr,sident and golf' team captain. 
Platform goals 
. 
To overhaul Uw studont union constitution 

. 
To create a campus shuttlr, systom 


. To force the global nwdia to rncogniw Notre Damn students on a daily basis 
Best idea 
Flatow recognizes th<) need for int11gration betwenn ethnic groups, howovor, he lacks con­cret11 plans to improve diversity. 
Worst idea 
lmplnmenting a thrne-ynar vision ror tho prnsi­dent -who would bo Lillod thn "benevolent despot" in Flatow's term -and rreating a sys­tem of checks and balances between the vice president and Snnate 

Most feasible idea 
Dorm competition at an annual snow olympics in a tournament similar to Bookstore Basketball 
Least feasible ideas 
Trained monkeys as banana-picking laborers on trees in tlw dining halls, despite nxpressed concern about sanitation problems; Pressuring Notrn Damr to ensurP the release of' all Amorican prisonrrs of' the Vietnam War seems beyond the administration's imminPnt objectives as well. 
Flatuw and 1'1innell's lack of' experiPnce and feasibl11 plans could lead to a chaotic and messy tnrm. Hevamping studrnt gov11rnment without understanding of its curn\nt operations will sure­ly lead to disorganization and a dofunct system. 
The ticket also undernstimatrs the resistance it would face from curren l senators. administrators and other members of the student body. By forusing on the globalization of Notre Dame, the pair misses the issues that are important to stu­dents in their own neighborhood. 
Experience 
Hanover currently serves as assistant chiP.f of staff for the Murphy/Palumbo administration. has worked on class and dorm councils and plays varsity basket­ball. Micf'k is junior class president, was Kf'ot1gb I !all co-president and volunteers in South Bend. 
Platform goals 
. 
To establish a Studtmt Academic Bill of' Hights. inc·luding f'rPI' tutoring !'or all undergrads, clarifka­tion of tlw l !onor Codn and mon\ office hours from profossors 

. 
To immediately increase 24-hour spact' on cam­pus with a pussiblt' f{eckers-typt> establishment on North Quad 

. 
To improve cumpus access lhrnugh short-term parking n1\1lt' Bolf'.-; and StPpan for off-campus stu­dents and creating a campus shuttle 

. 
To improve campus unity and diversity through initiatives including The Shirt for men's and women's buskctball, celt'Lrating Founder's Day and working with OMS/\ and other groups on diversity issues 


Best idea 
The Student Academic Bill of l{ighls would clarify 
John 
Micek 
junior, finance major Keough Hall 
ambiguous areas or the Honor Code, give students greater knowledge in se!f1cting their classes, and make tutoring available for everyone. 
Worst idea 
A campus shuttle: Walking from Lyons to Lof'tus takes only 20 minutes, and st.udP.nts probably would have to wait that long for a shuttle. 
Most feasible idea 
Instituting Thn Shirt l'or basketball 
Least feasible idea 
It is unlikelv llanover 11.nd Micrk rnn convincP profossors to 'givo up more of their free time to office hours that am oll<Hl poorly att<111dNI. 
Jlanover and Micek have an imprnssive list ol' qualifications, especially in programming and diversity, and both have Leen involved in non­student governmont activities. Their approacha­bility is refreshing, as is their ability to sec cur­rent problems in student government, 
The platform is well-researched, hut perhaps Loo broad for lhe ticket Lo accomplish in one year, 


Thursday, February 10, 2000 The Observer . ELECT!ON 2000 page 5 
T 
Brian Brooke 

O'DQ.~{Jg/Ji1e Norton
.ii . td ,w··
;, %,¥ ,, &.,j; ,.¥ !I 

junior, English major sophomore, government major Keough Hall Walsh Hall 

Believe. 

"We believe in leadership. No one seems to believe in that anymore." 
Experience 
O'Donoghrn~ has sPrVPd two terms as Keough Hall senator, two on the Campus Life Council and has sat on more than 1::i committees dealing with student lifo issues. Norton is sophomorr class vice prr,sidont. was freshman class secretary and has participated in Walsh Hall government. 
Platform goals 
. 
To create and expand acadrmir srrvires likr the Internet book-swap, an online course guide and course development grants for professors 

. 
To improve student life through discounts at local businesses, a scholarship search service and a dorm endowment fund that would allow rectors to provide students with funds in Amergrncy situations 

. 
To open a satellite Grab 'n' Go site in DeBartolo and a Becker's-like cafc in North Dining llall 


Best idea 
Uniting undergrads through campus-wide pro­grams: supplying more student tickets for away football ga,mes and promoting Planet Irish, a Web sitr brimming with information for students 
Worst idea 
O'Donoghue and Norton said they would keep silent about issues or information -like the pro­posed cancellation of Sophomore Sibs Weekend -if they believed it was in students' best interests or if administrators requested it. 

Most feasible idea 
Most ideas itrn practicable thanks to diligent and comprehensive research. Some concepts, however, mirror those attempted or planned by previous administrations. 
least feasible idea 
O'Donoghue's conviction that administrators will consider him a colleague simply because he repre­sents 8.000 students 
Experienced and passionate, O'Donoghue and :'Jorton have created an extensive, realistic plan. The candidates' dedication to campus unity through programming is admirable, but they generally lack innovative programs. 
Their ideological ambition is refreshing, but as student government insiders, they don't seem to perceive undergraduates' growing discontent with representatives' inability to accomplish tasks or speak on students' behalf. 
John Mark 
Osborne Don#,aheM'It 
junior, government/public policy major junior, philosophy/economics major Zahm Hall Sorin Hall 
Experience 
For two yPars. Osborn!' and Donahey have wurkf•d LogPthcr Lo cornpilP Lh<' stucknt govern­nwnt's report tCJ tlw Board CJf Trustees; this year. OsbornP chairs tlw rt>port committee and Donahey is tlw vin· chair. Donahey also has coordinated Sal'd{idP. 
Platform goals 
. 
GrPat<1r student involvement in University gov­er nan en through i tHTtrnst1 d communication bt'lwnen studrnts ,rnd the administration, more stu­dPnts on University committm~s and studPnl reprn­s<>ntalivns on the Board o!"Trustees 

. 
An updaU!d curriculum with morn introductory courses. second majors and minors and cultural studi!\S programs 

. 
lmprov<·cl student relations; support of a more div<(J"SP rnmmunity and inrlusion or sexual orienta­tion in the University's non-discrimination clause 


Best idea 
Instituting a Jlornecoming weekend; a block or l'ootball tickets would be set asidP for recent gradu­ate and dorm Pvents would highlight the weekend. 

Experience 
Higgins' and Pardon's experience comes from their 2 l/2 years on campus as well-informed studimts. Pardon also is this year's Shirt coordi­nator and has worked on The Shirt project for, two year:;. 
Platform goals 
. 
Frank disrussion about scxualitv, condom distribution and making available information about abortion 

. 
!Told grn.duation ceremonies in Notre Dame Stadium 

. 
13riug back Sophomore Sibs Weekend and Saf'eHid.c 


Best idea 
Cutting down on student fees (e.g. ticket costs, dining hall charge if you lose your ID) 
Worst idea 
Reversing the balance of faculty and administra­

tion on University committees 
Most feasible idea 
Bringing in more speakers to talk about a wider range of issues that concern students 
least feasible idea 
Fostering frank discussion of sexuality, and condom distribution on this campus 
Everybody knows guys like Pardon and Higgins. They live down the hall, they go to the dining hall, they like to sleep in. They say they're willing to take on the administration to get the things they want, and that they'll go around the Dome to ask alumni for help if neces­sarv. 
Tbcir candidacy is refreshing. but their lack of experience and details about how to implement their platform goals show that, unfortunately, these normal guys lack the know-how to get the job done. 

Worst idea 
While the ticket believes "you can't legislate toler­ance," it is also unmotivated to program events that could incrnase diversity education. 
Most feasible idea 
lnviting the "untapped resource" of students in clubs and organizations Lo engage in student gov­ernment leadership and community events 
least feasible idea 
Major curriculum changes, though creative and worthy of research, are unlikely to be implemented by student government and surely will not be accomplished in this pair's term. 
Osborne and Donahey are articulate, driven and in-tune with' specific nieds. Their initiatives, which include an off-campus housing network and expanded tutoring services, show an understanding of how programs can ease students' daily concerns. 
Their platform goals, however. are broad and long-term, and the candidates lack necessary research in many areas. With only one year in office, it seems this team could accomplish quick-hit plans but might leave major issues untackled. 
-
Doug Ted 

Pardont l(lflg/11, s
\i t. t 

junior, finance major junior, MIS major Castle Pointe apartments St. Edward's Hall 
page 6 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 Thursday, February 10, 2000 
Andrew Daniel 
Scialliz" Saracino,
41 --~-.:::'; '.'>'.:-;~' " ;,;· 
Fil'SI Year, intended business major First Year, intended biochemistry major Zahm Hall Zahm Hall 
Experience 
Like most. freshmen. ljjese two have very little experience with Notre Dame student govern­ment. Scialliz served in his church group at honrn, and Saracino was the first evPr wrirn-in vote to be elcr:ted treasurer of bis high school. 
Platform goals 
. 
To tear down Keenan-Stanford and replace it with an undPrage bar 

. 
To build a 24-hour bowling alley underneath South Quad 

. 
To chnngr. Notre Dame's moniker from th<' Fighting Ir.ish to a great big smiley face, to be worn by whomever was most recently impeached from the student body presidency 


Best idea 
Placing greater emphasis on k1wping up with student opinion 
Worst idea 
Demolishing Keenan-Stanford and giving its 
residents only tents and table sugar in return 
Most feasible idea 
Bi-weekly student opinion polls in the dining halls 
Least feasible ideas 
Constructing an amusement park and bowling alley under South Quad, and impeaching the president as soon as possible -thus making it impossible for anyone to stay in office more than two or thre(. weeks 
Sc.iallis and SarnciIJo are a pair of likable fresh­men with some intMesUng ideas. They make a good point that varying student interests and opin­ions are not given enough importance in student government at present, but their solutions to this problem are questionable. 
While the idea of rotating 10-day presidencies is sure to maintain an influx of new ideas. it is unlikely to afford any one president the time tu affect change. And blowing up Keenan and Stanford in the dark of night is just a bad idea. 


Joseph Jim 

She,ih(ercf: Focht 
junior, management major First Year, intended English major Dillon Hall Dillon Hall 

Experience 
Shepherd has served two years as class president and as a member of the Cesaro/Solak student body administration. I-le also served a semester as an employee of the University \,Veb administrator. Focht has collaborated with Shepherd and University offices on many platform issues. 
Platform goals 
. 
To review the allocation of funds within stu­dent government 

. 
To increase campus communication through Plant Irish. a comprehensive student Web site. and by publishing Teacher Course Evaluations 

. 
To ensure 24-hour social space in the new Student Center 


Best idea 
Educating students on how to vote by absentee ballot in their home state elections; the pair expressed concern for student indifference to their civic responsibilities and seek to raise greater political awareness on campus. 

-
Todd Warapius  George Coppinger  
junior, psychology major  junior, mechanical engineering major  
Zahm Hall  Knott Hall  


Worst idea 
The dismissal of SafeRide as too large an under­taking for student government; while they acknowledge the need to address student drunk driving, their skepticism about this existing pro­gram, however struggling, is unfortunate. 
Most feasible idea 
Increasing awareness of and participate in stu­dent programs through the Internet, e-mail, WVFI and other campus media. 
Least feasible idea 
The publication of TCEs online for student review; the pair has the ambition and information to accomplish this aim. but the probability of it actually happening is low because its success would rely on the approval of the administration. 
Well researched and committed to the academic mission of' the University. Shepherd and Focht have strong ideas, but they lack the concrete plans neces­sary for implementation, particularly those concern­ing diversity. Their dedication to making student gov­ernment more accessible is feasible, however. and their emphasis on academic life is refreshing. 
Experience 
Warapius currently is conducting mind control tests in the basement uf Haggar Hall, while Coppinger is huilding a "doomsday nrnchine" in Fitzpatrick. They also arc f1ueut in Jedi lauguages. 
Platform goals 
. 
To dissolv0 Stud1mt Scnc1to bcc:ausrJ, thr candi­dates said. the dernor:ratically elened governiug body is uselt>ss. weak and provides forum for dis­sent 

. Ending destructive conflict 

. 
Restoring order. but not necessarily peace, on campus 


Best idea 
Improving the campus music srene; inviting bands from across the galaxy might prove difficult, however 
Worst idea 
To institute new forms of punishment for stu­dents: women will be made slnvci dancers at Senior Bar. while men will be subjected to carbon freez­ing 
Most feasible idea 
Changing the student government structure so leaders are no longer democratically elected but centrally appointed 
Least feasible idea 
If mature discussion with administrators fails to get this ticket's plans passed, Jedi mind tricks of persuasion will be implemented. 
This pair is r,reative and willing to push the bounds of current institutions. If implemented, their syslem of government would likely be more efficient than the turrent om~ in LaFortune. 
However, the candidates' emphasis on strict despotism and constituents' complete obedience with threat of physical damage for those who don't comply will certainly silence students excited to dedicate their pnrsonal tahmts nnd ideas to student leadership. 



----~­

Thursday, February 10, 2000 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 page 7 
Experience Worst idea 
Smith and Clemenr.y have served in . Painting the Dome pink to elimi­leadership roles in Zahm Ilall. They nate glare for toll road drivers ran for student government president 
.,. 

GregSmith  Brian Clemency  
junior, ALPP major  sophomore, government major  
Zahm Hall  Zahm Hall  

Please endorse us! 
"I want t:o get back to basics and give the school what they really want." 
and vice president last year on sepa­rate tickets but have not become involve in campus-wide programs since then. 
Platform goals 
. 
Social plank: allow kegs on cam­pus, construct freshman bar behind the stadium, form Dog Book rating committee 

. 
Hcligious plank: build a temple and a mosque for non-Catholic stu­dents to alleviate religious discrimi­nation 

. 
Academic plank: amend llonor Code with "ifs only cheating if you get caught" clause. 


Best idea 
. Construction of a skee-ball arcade somewhere on campus; COBA -the recommended venue -how­ever, is not centrally located and will not equally serve students' needs. 

Most feasible idea 
. Changing tho common reference of "God Quad" to "Smitty Quad" to honor the presidential candidate's nickname " 
Least feasible idea 
. Legalization of prostitution and gambling on campus would require zoning changes unlikely to be approved by local officials or the campus community 
In refusing to meet with The Observer, this team displayed iLi; dis­interest in facing questions about issues not touched in its platform ­diversity. gender relations, student­administration relations, 24-hour space. policy-making and program­ming experience and willingness to speak on behalf' of the student body. 
t>nce, including being class presi­ment and spread enthusiasm. du Lac and most of the archives, illuminate the inad!'quacies." 
denLs, "We get rnally excited," Focht as well as researching about 30 Like other candidates, Smith Hanover wants to make stu­said. "This kind of enthusiasm other universities, and Clemency want more stu­continued from page I dent government "totally casual" motivates us to do more." Presidential candidate Greg dent involvement, such as an by moving some of the meetings Shepherd and Focht, who are Smith is no stranger to the elec­External Revi!'W Board of non-into the dining halls for morn best friends, want to use this tion scene, student gov­
Gamut 
resolutions that do nothing," said 
student involvement. relationship to work together. This is his ernment mem­
Costigan. ''They take themselves
"J want student government to "We can speak honestly to third election bers to moni­Costigan wants to work on stu­
be fun again," Hanover said. !'ach oth!'r." Focht said, and he is run­too seriously. We know tor studentdent issues like getting football Hanover and Their platform includes releas­ning with that we're only president government
tickets for 
Micek both ing TCE data and improving the sophomore Presidential
Notrc Dame and vice president for
"It's almost intimidating advoeate a information flow. B r i a n candidatestudents Campus Unily Shepherd said that they have Clemency to one year and we want to Doug Pardon
beforn Saint to walk into the student 
program, a ''basically ideas that wouldn't be get more do something. " . wants to "lead
f\lary's and government uf(lce." 
Student that tough to implement," issues into the by example." 
lloly Cross stu­
Academic Bill Candidates 13rian ()'Donoghue public forum. flowever, he
dc>nts purchasP Ted Higgins
Chris Costigan of' Highls and a and Brooke Norton, for president "I think I've and Ted
theirs and 
free campus and vice president respectively, made a differ­vice president candidate Higgins, his
rhanging the presidential candidate 
shuttle. want use their experience to ence an helped vice presiden­
ono-food or­
!Ian ov!'r said bene(Jt the student body. student gov-tial candidate,pastry rule• in all his goals "It's an asset that Brooke and I ernment to realize some of' their do want some changes in studentLh<' dining halls. 
ani tangible, both know how this University inadequacies," Smith said. "I government,
lie said lw wants lo address "I likP mPasurable things. I likP operates," O'Donoghue said. want to see a morn produetive "They tako thems11lves tootlw issu1:s that sLUdnnt.s really u task likP mowing u lawn "We both know what's suc­student government. I want to seriously," said Higgins. "Wecan•about. 
bcntusP I can see what I've donn cossl'ul and what has failed in get back to basics and give the know that we're only president
"!L's almost intimi<l,Lting for 
and what I haven't done.'' lw the past" Norton said. school what they really want." and vice president for one yearrwop!P to ,,.alk in tlw student 
said. Both canc.lidates currently hold Clemency wants to "bring and we want to do something." 
!-{ov1'rnI111'nL ufTi,·c'," said 
Another pair said it notic<'d offices in student government some fresh blood" into stud!'nt Pardon and Higgins plan to beCostigan, 
that some ideas haven'L worked and hope to put to the forefront government. more proactive by having al'rnsidential (candidatP Hunt in student govnrnment. Those issues such as eating disorders. For this reason, he and Smith weekly column in The ObserverIlanovn made u similar stute­candidatPs want to put ideas into but also improve student accoss have supported several Zahm and pushing for an outdoormnnt about th{' intimidalion fac­
action. to information, such as with an residenL'i, but they don't want to graduation in Notre Dame stadi­tor. "I think studcmt government online course guide. be singled out totally as a dorm. um.
"Hight now student govBrn­
has the capability of being a very Norton said that ()'Donoghue Referring to the number of "We're not pushing anythingnwnt is a kinrl of closPd society." 
powerful organization," said and her work together well Zahm tickets, Smith commented, unreasonable, unenthusiastic orl lanuv(ir said. 
presid<>ntial candidate Joe because they "complement each "The more, the merrier. Rather unCatholic," Higgins said, "We're Ilanowr and his vice µresideu­
ShcphPrd. · other." than shining one candle on the trying to bring a voice back toLial r·andidatP .John Micek both 
lie and his partner, Jim Focht, Norton said that O'Donoghue is bureaucracy of student govern­the students," 
havt' student govl•rnnwnl experi­
want to Pxpand studPnt govern-well informed. having read all of ment, wc shine eight or nine to 

----~-=========-=======================================================================­
"ITh!>re is an] unwritten mixed raocis or ethnicity from Nevertheless, there aro assured her that gender was
Women 
perception that women can running," McEntee said. But women and minorities in some not the reason he chose her as 
continued from page 1 only run for vice prosid1rnt," evon her insight doesn't important positions within a running mate. She wouldn't said Iris Oullaw, din)<'Lor of' account for a lack of presi­student government. be comf'ortablo running with the OITice of Multicultural dent/vice president combina­"l\"ot everybody wants to be him if that were the case, 
woman has HV (H' sP rv r.d as Affairs. tions where both candidates a leader." Outlaw said. "I think the campaign prnsic!Pnt In recent vears. freshmen are minorities. "If you look at the student should be more about leader­
"I was ddinitclv one of' the class presidents have been "! think a lot of times government and how it's ship," Norton said, addingminorities as a w,;man,'' Sclak mPn, llowevPr, Outlaw said minorities tend to build up branched off, there are people that her gender becomes an said or the 
that the leadership in the judicial part. for exam­issue only because there arc time she ('. u r r e n t within eth­ple. who represent women no other females running. 
Sp ('.11 [ i11 "/ was de_(lnitely one ofthe ­
<"lass does nic organi­and minorities," McEntee said. O'Donoghue said he talked student have il l'ew minorities as a woman. But zations on "I think a woman or a minori­to some of his friends when he govern­African­campus ty could bring more diverse was considering Norton as a

once you 're in the office, 

nwnt. "But American and don't ideas to the position [of presi­running mate.
you 're there to serve the stu­

0 11 C e women in tend to dent]." "They said, 'She's amaz­you're in important dent body, and with that goal move out­Selak agreed. "Student body ing,"' O'Donoghue said. "It office, positions. s i d e , president and vice president, wasn't necessarily a gender
in mind, it wasn't really an is 

vou re Although Fierro they're the two main elected issue,"
Selak an issue.

then\ to there was said. positions, but they're not the At the same time. ..,. serve th!' an African-The lack only positions." she said. ()'Donoghue said that certain student bodv. and with that American Andrea Selak of diversity "There are a lot of opportuni­input Norton has had to their goal in mind~ it isn't really an president among the ties for women and minorities platform could not have been
former student body vice president

issue. in the candidates to be represented." matched by a male running­"I don't think it's the intimi­1970s. cur-hurts the Despite the lack of diversity mate. dation factor or the men on rent candi-University among the candidates, neither One such aspect is the this campus. It wasn't a factor dates are also almost entirely because men and women, Norton nor Flatow want to implementation of a Women's in me not running. I was gning white. One presidential candi­minorities and non-minorities, make this issue central to Awareness Week. Norton 
to run with a male," said date, Zahm Hall freshman think differently on different their campaigns. added that men's issues would Jennifer McEntee, a junior Matthew Flatow, has a Cuban­issues, according to Fierro. ''I'd like to see more diversi­also be included in the week's who considered running. born mother. "I think organizations like ty," Flatow said, but he attrib­activities. 
The history and this year's Why aren't more minorities student government need to utes the responsibility for "I feel I would be a voice for ticket composition point to a running? open up to minorities," he increasing the number of all students at Notre Dame," glass ceiling in Notre Dame's "From what I've seen, stu­said, adding that minorities minorities on campus to the Norton said. student govPrnmenl. So is a dents of certain ethnic groups also need to be more willing to University's Office of 
female studfint body president tend to stay together, so that take leadership roles in stu­Admissions. Kate Steer contributed to an impossibility·, probably prevents tickets of dent government, Norton said she ()'Donoghue this report. 
I I 
I 

HELPING YOU DECIDE 
--
Student Government 
Elections 

Editor: Michelle Krupa Assistant Editor: Tim Logan Interviews and Profiles: Colleen Gaughen, Michelle Krupa, Tim Logan, Colleen McCarthy, M. Shannon Ryan Candidate Portraits: Mary Ca/ash 


Thursday, February l 0, 2000 page 15 

ana and Notre Darne culture with the Summer Shakespeare Festival 2000. 
lina.l week in perl'ormance. 
Local direetors will direct the shows, which will inf·l11de a onP-hour vPrsion or "Tlw Taming ol' the Shrew." Seeking to makP this a familv affair. the' f'nstival has t'Vf'll pla111rnd v·arious af'livitiPs to invoh,P rhildrt>n and parPnts ol' ,i.11 ages, surh as puprwt shows. c·ostunw rontnsts and game booths. 
So Pxartlv whern do Llw Univ1'rsity studPnts ni into this grand proj<"ct'1 Fn{erlainml'nt is nnly !ml!' o!' tlH'. Summer ShakespPare Festival's cru­sadf'; its othl'r mission is to educate. 
will have access to an on-campus living plan. 
"The r.lass will be team-taught by expe1·ts in Shakespeare Studies and in Performance Approaches to the plays," Hathburn added. and acr:ordingly "will be cross-listed in [the! Theatre and in ltlrnl English !departments!." 
This summer's professor~ will be Halhburn and the play·s director, Kath!':rinc Pogue. who has dirPcted sPv­(m\.l Shakespearean productions for the Hl'claimed Universitv of Houston Shakespeare Pestival. ·open auditions 

";\spiring 1111 ivrrsity-li'veI slu dP n t pf' r­!'o r11w rs and t1•chni1·ians will be givPn tlrn oppurtunity lo gain practical t h I' a t r i c· a I experience by working and performing alongside cstablishrd prol'Pssional 
"Aspiring unfoersity-level student p€n:formers ... will be given the opportunity lo gain practical theatrical experience by working and pe1fonning alongside established professional actors, directors and a professional production staff." 
Paul Rathburn artistic director-producer 
will be held Sunday from 12:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. and Monday from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns audi­torium. Auditions will be held on a first-come. first-serve basis. Students 

actors. dirPrtors and a pro!'l'ssional production staff." Hathburn said. 
Students will only bP aecPplNI by audition to partir.ipatP in tlw uniquP coursE, a romprrhPnsiv<' six-1T<•di1 hour class tillrd -you guessed it ­"ShakHspPan' in Performance." 
Those sclrcted for th<' class will receive a full tuition scholarship. and 
THE GUY 

SCOTT LITTLE 

Can girls and guys be friends'? This question has plagued the world since the beginning of time. 
WPre Adam and Eve friends'? No. they just had lots and lots of' sex. And why is that'? 
BP.('.ltUSf' SPX is ll1lt<'h mol'P run 
than talking. 
It is possible !'or a guy to b1• Crir\nds wilh an ugly girl though. That's easy if slrn',; l'un ny. or if she won't get off your bark. 
But a guy will never be friends wilh a hot girl. ever. Therr will always be those thoughts in the hark of his mind of what she would look likl' nak1'd. and what shf\ would look likn on top of' him. ntr. It is OK to lw f'rit>nds with a hot girl for a short pr.rind or timf'. This is just a step in th,i will be allotted a four-minute time slol. and are asked to prepare a two-minute tragic and a two-minute comic selec­tion. 
Although the festival's premiere sea­so.n will produce just one mainstage play. the program's coordinators are hopeful that it will expand enough to accommodate the production of as 
many as three differ­ent Shakespearean works over the sum­mer. 
Summer Shakes­peare's founding board is committed to expanding and improving the pro­gram every year. Numerous coordina­tors and volunteers have devoted r.ount­less hours to making the program a perma­nent part of the uni­versity. The Summer Sha,kespeare Festival's legacy is the gift of' all those who have so generously contributed to the project to enrich Notre Dame. 
"It means so much to so many people," said Rathburn. So why are so many people still afraid to ignore the TV and dust off their copy of "Hamlet"? You can always tape "Ally McBeal." but you won't be able to catch the Shakespeare Festival as a summer repeat. 
He said' ••• Sfte sauf ••• 
Scene asks about love in a sen·es ofcolumns leading up to Valentines Day. -~aai: Can ouis mul9afs hefriends'? ­Respond to these columns at Scene@nd.edu 


genPrally accepted rules of getting hot girls. but if a guy remains to be friends with a hot girl for a long time he is just accepting that that. is all he will ever gPt. and thus be miserable. Or he is hanging 
onto Uw thrrad of hope that jusl mayb1i the two ol' them will 
gnt 1·c1tlly drunk together once 
and ride the snake. 
I would like t.o sum this up with an example using Mike Sekula's dogs. One is a guy and one is a girl and they are good friends and hang out and jump around their yard together. But every onr,e in a while when Willie docsn't think anyone is watd1ing he ·will mount Moanie and humpa wumpa. Humans aren't dogs, but I think we can all understand what Willie is going through. 


THE GAL 


-
ERICKA RAVETTINE 

remains: Are we on some level sexually attracted to our friends? 
It stands to reason that certain relationships begin on the basis of ­physical attraction. However. many of these evolve into friend­ships that are unconnected to that original attraction. 
Thero are some friendships. though. that begin for more ambiguous reasons but lead to a more intimate relationship. This docs not necessarily disrupt the original friendship. 
To complicate the situation even further, some individuals are "hook-up buddies." These friend­ships arc composed of people who have a physical relationship but are able to maintain a separate, unaffocted friendship. 
So my final answer: YES. men and women can be friends without sex or desire getting in the way. However, isn't a good friendship with a little lovin' on the side the perfect relationship? 
The age-old question that res­onates through the romantic come­dy "\Nhen Harry met Sally" is can men and women be friends? In the movie. Billy Crystal states that the problem with male and female relationships is the sexual tension which lies between them and makes it impossible to maintain a friendship. The movie also states that once a man and woman suc­cumb to their desire for one anoth­er, the friendship is lost. So is that true here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's? · 
On the surfar,e -no way. Both myself and Scott quoted "the friend" as a category of the oppo­site sex -a great person to hang 
· out with. the one you call with problem5, r,omplimenting your personality-but ofno sexual interest. All of lhe men and women here have many friends of the opposite sex -the friends in class, the drinking buddies. the advice givers and so on. The question still 

Tomorrow's topic: The dating scene at Notre Dame and SMC -to commit or not to commit 

MOVIE REVIEW 

What's there to 'Scream' about? 
audiences -Williamson. Ehren By CASEY K. McCLUSKEY Kruger took over the screenwrit­Sm1e Movie Critic: ing job for the third film, but does 
not livf' up to the task. lie lacks 
"So what's your favorite scary movie?" the comic wit and clever twists For many college students this quesUon is that keep the tilm one step ahead an easy onr.. Everyonr. grew up watching of the audience. tlw 'Triday Lhe ·1 :-ith" and "Halloween" The Glm also does not have the series and had a favorite. In the "Scream" same grasp or the horror genre ­series, this is the question that can sav1~ and all of the cliches that come or doom the next victim. along with it -and therefore does 
"Scream 3" is the final film of the trilogy not have the same ironi<: disrourse that brought back to life the genre of hor­of self-reflexivity that made the ror lilms. The first "Scream" was surpris­lirst two so successful. ingly intelligent Thi>re an' because it took into some very funny account the fact that "Scream 3" moments in the its audience grew up film, most of watching horror .,.-. ~ .,· ;;;) which occur movies and were ..(J til ~. when the cast of familiar with how the "Stab 3" meet
out offive shamrocks 
game was played. the "real life" K1win Williamson. people they are the man who came up Director: Wes Craven playing. As with the "Scream" tril-Starring: Neve Campbell, Jennifer Jolie, the actress who
ogy and wrote the firSl Courtney Cox-Arquette, David 
two. knew his films plays Gale would have to pay Arquette, Parker Posey, Patrick Weathers in homage to all the films Dempsey and Scott Foley "Stab 3," Parker that came before it. all Posey com-while remaining fresh mands the for an audience that has seen Jason and screen. She is hysterical as Freddy die 100 times over. Courtney Cox-Arquette's counter­
This time the film is set in Hollywood. point and the two are hilarious All the re·maining members of the first when they are together on the two "Screams" (and there are not many screen. left) have settled down in their lives. Another notable appearance is Cotton Weary is a famous talk show host, made by Patrick Dempsey ("Can't 

Gale Weathers is a national celebrity, Buy Me Love"), who plays Mark Neve Campbell and David Arquette defend their lives against a serial killer in "Scream3." Sydney Prescott is living by herself and Kincaid, the detective in charge of working for a crisis hotline out of her the new spree of killings. Is he a 
plays Aaron Banks, the resident trilogy. This is the last of the "Screams"home and Dewey Riley is the technical man to trust? 
videophile and horror expert in "Stab 3." and therefore all of the loose ends shoulddirector on a new film -"Stab 3: Return Scott Foley, known for his role as Noel Doesn't his character sound a bit like be tied up. All the secrets are revealedto Woodsboro." on the TV show "Felicity," plays Roman Randy Meeks (Jamie Kennedy) from the and everything is brought to a close, soYes, Hollywood is making "Stab 3" to tie Bridger, a director who is dying to get this first two "Screams"? Is he fed up with liv­this is a must see for all those who up all of the loose ends of the Woodsboro film made -or is he killing lo get it ing in Handy's shadow and can't take it enjoyed the first two installments.
movies. Convenient? Yes. Clever? Almost. made? 

anymore? In "Scream 3," all bets are off and theThe concept is there. but what is Deon Richmond, known for playing Who is the killer this time? From the rules don't apply any more. Anyone canpainfully missing is the writing of the man Kenny. or Bud, on the "Cosby Show," beginning, this series was meant to be a die and anyone can be ths killer.
who brought the first two installments to 


MOVIE COLUMN 

Moral lessons abound in Stone's 'Wall Street' 
-
I ('an remember being very young and hearing that "Wall Street" was going to premiere on network television. Being in a family that did not have cable until 1996, any major motion picture debut on the "basic rhanncls" was always a big deal in our household. I watched for a while1 
but_ without bl'.Jodshed. or any v. Van Buren 
senous explos10ns, I soon . tuned out and resorted to the Giles 

-immediate enjoyment of my Nintendo gaming system. Scene Mouie It was only a few years ago, 
Critic 
after working at a corporate job in mid-town Manhattan, that I watrhed the film in its 
Pntirety. I was in awe of the powerful acting and the 
intense moral questions the movie raises. 
Growing up a "city kid," Iwas always r,urious about. the day-to-day habits of those men and womrm from my neighborhood who braved the downtown I.R.T. to the mecca of the business world that was Wall Street. 
Oliver Stone's remarkable film transports us to 1986, where we meet Bud Fox (Charlie Sheen). a young execu­tive bored with his tpdious job as a trader. He dreams of ber,urning a heavy hitter in his corporate profession and sets his sighL-; on a famous Wall Street wizard named Gordon Gckko (Michael Douglas). 
Bud sees his future and dream of fortune in Gordon, the epitome~ of the '80s stor,k and rrnl-estate speculator. Always Lhe studious and honest hard worker, Bud soon realizes that in order to make it to the top of the corporate ladder n.nd become a power player among the business world elite, he mlLc.;t lie. cheat and steal. 
Bud stops listrming to his conscience and soon becomes lured into the illegal but lucrative world of corporate espi­onage by his new found mentor and hero, Gordon. In no time at all. Bud assumes the "yuppy" (young urban profcs­sionali status he has always dreamed of. · 
With his posh Upper East Side apartment. equipped with state of the art electron­ics and gourmet food appli­ances. Bud has established himsclfin the image of the Reagen era, a time which charar:tAriznd the celebration of greed. 
With tl1e seven-digit bank account and the tall blonde IDaryl Hannah) on his arm. · Bud has everything he could possibly want -except the ability to look at himself in the mirror or have a good night's rest. 
Bud's moral and ethical choices begin to haunt him, as he is alienated from his coworkers and blur. collar rather. who already sees the corruption and greP<l which is common in his son's work. 
"Stof'.kwatd1." the organiza­tion that invcstig,ites insider trading.is soon hot on Bud's trail ,LS his monetary empire begins to crumble around him. I le has one last chance lo save his father's pride and regain his moral character before all his rorporatc wheel­ing and dealing land him in the slammer. 
The lilm f'eatures a superb cast that consisL'i of strong supporting performances from Sean Young, James Spader, John C. McGinley and Ternnce Stamp. 
But thfl most Pntertaining and captivating figure Is by far thr. seductive and satanic Gordon Gekko, a role for which Michael Douglas won the Academy Award for best actor. 


The story is based on the real life business tycoon Ivan 
F. Boesky who told a graduating cl,L'iS at Berkley in 1986 that. "Greed is healthy." Later that Fall, Hoesky would plead guilty to charges from the Justice Department con­cerning massive violations of security laws. Douglas, as Gt>kko, utters these same words at a stock-holders meet­ing in the film. 
If any pre-profossional has not yet seen this film. he or she ought to for a truly sinister and enthralling vision of the American dream gone wrong. 
Thursday, February 10, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
... 

Chorney 
continued from page 28 
four years in lhe Big East, but then took the blame for trying to join the Big Ten. He helped suc­cessfully transition the women's soccer program from the Mike Petrucelli to the Randy Waldrum era. but botched the transition 
from MacLeod to Doherty with a 
Bick Majerus in b1~twecn. 
Ile ensured thP Irish would be seen on television by helping to extend NBC's contract then ensunid they'd be seen on Court TV by allowing the Joe Moore fiasco to occur. 
Then there's the probation. 

But what's done is done. Whether Wadsworth was the executive responsible for a pro­gram-gone-out-of-control or a scapegoat. a victim of a game he played all too well. is irrelevant at this point. 
His departure leaves open one of the most important collegiate administrative position in the country. It's unknown as to who the powers that be have their collective eye on or even for what qualities they're looking. 
They've made one thing abun­dantly clear. however. 
Experienr,e as an athletic direr,tor is an important asset to have if not a must. 
While it's tempting to then rule out anyone from within lhe bub­ble of the Dome and look to other schools to help fill the posi­tion. doing so would mean over­looking a perfectly capable replacement. 
Melissa Conboy, a 1982 gradu­ate of Notre Dame has worked in the Notre Dame athletic depart­ment since 1987, serving first as an assistant athletic director until 1992 when she was pro­moted to the role of associate athletic director. 
She has experience within the athletic department and the NCAA itself. 
This experience gives Conboy much knowledge of the intrica­cies specific to the Notre Dame athletic department and the complexities of the NCM. These attributes should far outweigh her lack of experience as the head executive. 
Plus, she's a Domer. 
As arguably the first great female athlete from Notre Dame, playing basketball from 1979­1982, Conboy understands the different standards to which Notre Dame attempts to hold its athletes and coaches. She under­stands the difficulties Notre Dame faces in recruiting due to these standards, and the ditlicul­ties athletes encounter in mak­ing sure that both sides of the hyphen in the word student-ath­lete are equally attended to. 

She's proven herself worthy. Conboy currently administers the Irish ice hockey, volleyball and women's basketball teams and oversees both tennis and soccer programs. In her tenure, both women's basketball and women's soccer, debatably the two most successful programs next to fencing at Notre Dame, became national powerhouses. Volleyball and men's and women's tennis made their respective post-season tourna­ments last year. 
Conboy has been in charge of nearly every team that wins con­sistently. 
She conducts herself with class and an amiability that's conta­gious. She's an eloquent speak­er and handles the press well. 
She has the experience, the personality, the ability and the knowledge to fill the position. And while the male-centered culture of Notre Dame's student body and administration might find problem in promoting a woman to be in charge of its pre­cious athletic program. leaving Conboy's name off a list of potential candidates would be a grievous omission. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
NFL 
Browns aggressively seek free agents during off-season 
after veteran offensive tackle players and "Free agency can get you Jacksonville trouble when you start paying Associated Press 
Lomas Brown was released on Dillon is a w h e n the type of dollars for a player
in trouble when you start

Wednesday. restricted free Palmer was that are demanded by the best CLEVELAND "We'll be very aggressive," agent and the paying the type of the Jaguars' at the position, when that play­No longer an expansion Browns president Carmen Bengals would dollars for a player that offensive er that you're dealing with is team. the Cleveland Browns Policy said last week. "If it's have to coordinator. not one of the best," Policy
are demanded by the

are ready to begin their second 
the right player, don· t be sur­receive draft T h e said. "He may just be the best season -in free agency. prised if we overpay." picks as com­best at the position, Detroit Lions available at that moment." Cliweland's first venture into Among the players thought to pensation. when that player that also are Whatever the Browns do dur­
free agt>ncy had the Browns 
be on lhe Browns' wish list are: Stewart, a reportedly ing the free-agent signing peri­
you 're dealing with is 

looking for players. period. 
Arizona defensive end Simeon productive eager to od will undoubtedly shape their 
They needed ()verything in not one ofthe best." 
Hice, Jacksonville defensive backup in I a n d plans for April's college draft. 
1999 and had just a few 
end Tony Brackens and run­Jacksonville, Stewart. If Cleveland owns the No. 1 
months to assemble a team. 
ning back James Stewart. New appears to be they do, the overall pick for the second
Carmen Policy 
Now, with a 2-14 season 

England wide receiver Shawn the Browns' Browns straight year and will likely use 
behind them, the Browns have Cleveland Browns president
Jefferson, Detroit defensive prime target. could get it to take either Florida State 
a bettor idea of what holes 
end Robert Porcher and Stewart has involved in a wide receiver Peter Warrick or 
need to bP fill1~d. The Browns 
Cincinnati running back Corey some knowl-bidding war one of Penn State's impact 
are believed to have nearlv $20 
Dillon. edge of the Browns' offensive for a running back who may defenders, end Courtney
million to spend, a figure which 
But Brackens and Rice are system. He played in Cleveland not be worth fighting over. Brown or linebacker LaVar 
grew by nearly $3.25 million 
expected to be made franchise coach Chris Palmer's system in "Free agency can get you in Arrington. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
3 ROOMS IN PRIVATE  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS  Andrea Louise, have you  MC-Shu1 up.  
HOME. $400/MO INCL. UTILI­ VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS  watched the dating network  -LP  
LOST AND FOUND  FOR RENT  TIES EXCEPT PHONE.  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS  lately?  
NON-SMOKERS.  M'Shan is not into body parts  
2-6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01  WALKING DISTANCE TO  Deadline is 2 pm on Friday,  Maybe I can catch it i time for  inthe inside column.  
ANNABELLE-YOU LEFT  272-6306  CAMPUS.  Feb. 11.  Valentine's Day.  
YOUR GLASSES AND CON­ 288-4241.  It's not that big a column.  
TACT CASE IN MY CAR  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  why does everything happen at  You can hook up with someone  - 
WHEN I GAVE YOU A RIDE  AND CLOSE  midnight?  who doesn't speak your Ian­ That's what she said.  
TO ND FROM THE TRAIN  http://mmmrentals.homepage.c  FOR SALE  guage. not a problem.  
STATION MONDAY. CALL  om/  Sports dinner next Thursday.  Here's a shout out to TEAM  
272-9225.  email;mrnrnrentals@aol.com  Meet in the office at 6:30 p.m.  congratulations, nicole and  395 and the team captain, J.W.  
232-2595  New Phone Card  We're going to CJ's.  mike, on your wedding.  Fluffy misses all of you.  

Lost Cincinatti Reds hat, left at  6 BEDRM. '00-'01  886 mins. $20 258-4805 or 243-9361  way overdue.  Good luck Chris and Kelly on  I miss all of you too, and I sorta wish I were in Trads II.  
JACC during LNO, HUGE sen­ $1200/mo. 273-0482  your history test.  Except, of course, that would  
timental value. reward if found.  1991 Honda accord EX  it hit 40 today.  involve being in Tracts II.  
Call Scott 4-1304  88,000 miles $6000  All you people writing papers  Oh well.  
219-273-8483  Time for forties at four.  and studying tests, it's time to  
Available Summer '00 & '00­ get out of the 0.  FLUFFY FOREVER!  
WANTED  01.  Compaq Computer  did you watch star wars last  
4-student rental  has CD burner and printer  night, tigger?  Good luck with the BS, NG.  reality only exists for people  
Professor needs 3 hrs. help on  house...Security System, Air  $1300/OBO  who don't drink enough.  
small farm 1 mile from N.D.  Conditioned, Laundry.. Dave  Mike at 247-1196  enough with the penis game  MC, how about that Core  
277-5328  291-2209.  already!!!  paper?  Love the llama, Mike.  

Email Ford.1 @nd.edu what's with all the election Good times now that you're 21. 
kd, it's time to buy some insanity? WANTED NICE HOMES FOR NEXT TICKETS hookup drawers. class in 7 hours? I don't think 2 Tx MBBall ND-UCONN SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF MBC -now you get to be in the I'll be there. Please callAlan 634-4469 ND EXCELLENT NEIGHBOR-classifieds. Don't you feel spe-
HOOD CLOSE 2773097 Need basketball tickets for ND what happened on 9021 0? cial? weekend starts in 10. I'll defi­
Didn't get into Lafayette? Looking for two female room­mates for next year. Rent B'NB REGISTRY $150/ month plus utilities. Call 219-291-7153 Jen@ 284-5175. 
3 bdrm. home, 1-1/2 bath, Childcare needed. 1 or 2 stu-tri-level, FIR w/F/P. 
vs. UCONN Feb. 12. Must be between baselines, lower level. Will pay $150 apiece. 6 needed. 
Call Chris (219) 251-9364. 

dents for 20 hrs per week Fenced backyard. 2-car 
between 9 and 5 to watch 2 yr garage. 
old & newborn for ND prof in Gas heat, AJC, across from PERSONAL 
our home.Experience and park. $1,500/mo. Grad. stu­
transportation required.Some dents preferred. 
flexibility in scheduling possi-616-683-5038 or 232-4527. 
ble. Call Rose at 289-3856. Mobile: 219-340-1844. www.thecommentator.com 
Is ND going to pull off the upset over UConn on Saturday? 
Not if they play like they did on the road. 
Only i!Troy Murphy has a big game. 
NCAA tournament? 
On the bubble. nitely be there for that. 

Ah, I love going to Senior "Club" and being degenerate. And I'll definitely be at Krupa's Especially when I see Heather this weekend. 
Volk 'cause she rules. 
Time to shake up the seedings. Kevin, I DE Fl NIT ELY think the English language is a "stan-Night night. 
dard." One that some people in "photo" wouldn't meet. Why am I still here? 
Who messed on the chair?  Is this a Nick's night?  
Not me!  
I have to go home.  


r 
Thursday, February I0, 2000 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
.. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Przybilla shocks Hoosiers with 33 

Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Joel Przvbilla scored a carcer­high 33 points. including the game-winning basket with 3.9 seconds left. and Minnesota stunned No. 10 Indiana 77-75 Wednesday night. 
A.J. Guyton, who scored 27 points despite a 17 l/2-minute drought. was several feet short on a desperation 3-pointer at the buzzer. sending the Golden Gophers and the standing room­only crowd at Williams Arena into a frenzy. 
The Gophers (12-9. 4-7 Big Ten) gave first-year coach Dan Monson his biggest victory yet at Minnesota. 
Kirk Haston scored 24 points for the Hoosiers ( 17-4, 7 -3). who haven't won at Williams Arena in five yt>ars. His two free throws with l :08 left gave Indiana a seemingly safe 75-70 lead. 
But Kevin Burleson, who hact 

to guard Guyton when John­
Blair Bickerstaff !elt with a knee 
injury in the first half, hit a 3­
pointer with a minute left and 
Przybilla made it 75-73 with 39 
seconds remaining. 
Przybilla blocked a shot by 

Haston with 10 seconds left. 
sped upcourt and took a dish 
from Terrance Simmons for the 
winning basket. 
Przvbilla, the Big Ten's best shooter, was 16-for-l 9 from the field and hit al! 11 of his shots in the second half. 
The GophArs Jost Bickerstaff, a junior forward and the son of former NBA coach Bernie Bickerstaff. wilh a brokPn right kneecap six minutes before half­time when he was fouled by Guyton going up for a basket 
After the game, Monson told his players Bickerstaff needs an operation and is out for the sea­son, 
Minnesota has beaten Indiana the last four times the Hoosiers came into town ranked in the Top 25. Of course, the first three were the Gophers teams led by the likes of Quincy Lewis, Kevin Clark, John Thomas and Bobby Jackson, not Monson's first-year ragtag group that had losl six of seven. 
The Gophers started olf shaky 
and fell bt>hind bv 1 3 before 
storming bark to triit just :~5-34 
at halftime. 
Guyton started the game by 
hitting 3s from all over, but after 
his fastbrcak layup with 10:04 
left in the first half gave the 
Hoosiers their biggest lead at 
27-14, he was quiet. Bickerstaff 
switched with Simmons and ·shut 
down the Big Ten's leading scor­
er until he got hurt. Then 
Burleson came in and did the 
same. 
Guyton snapped out of his 
funk when he intercepted a pass 
from Przvbilla with the Hoosiers 
trailing 47-41, made the basket. 
drew the foul and converted the 
bonus. 
NBA 

Rodman thrills crowd in return 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
It didn't take long for Dennis Rodman to make his prcsenee felt in Oallas, on and nff the 
court 
Playing before a boisterous s e l l o u t crowd that featured D e i o n Sanders 

11. n d Rodman Emmitt Smith sit­ting courtside, Rodman 
grabbed nine rebounds and took a hard foul that briel1y knocked out Seattle's 11 uben Patterson in just his first half as a Mavrrick. 
Hodman, who wore No. 70. didn't look like a 38-year-oJd guy v,·ho has been out of thf' NBA for 10 months. In 16 minutes. he also had three fouls and a length-of-the court assist f'ollnwing one rebound. There was one sign ol' rust: he got caught playing illegal defense twice, the sec­ond giving Seattle a technical free throw. 
Rodman was aggressive from the get-go. snatching the game's first miss and being fouled bv Vin Baker. Then Patterson·made the mistake of trying to drive to the hoop through Rodman. Both went down. but only Hodman got up. Patterson, who was called for a charge. remained IJat on his face for several minutes. 

Rodman sat out the first few minutes of the second quar­ter. but he grabbed the first available rebound when he returned, There was a near blowup soon after, though, as 
he was called for two quick 
fouls -both of' which he dis­
agreed with. 

Rodman, obviously peeved. 
ran upcourt cupping the ball 
as if he were going to heave 
it. but instead marched to the 
far sideline and placed it 
down softly. 

He spent the last 2:42 of the 
quarter on the bench, then 
walked silently to the locker room at halftime with a towel over his blonde head. Seattle led 59-51 and won 117-106. Hodman finished with 13 rebounds in 32 minutes. 
The fans who made this just thp, second sellout ol' the sea­son made it obvious who thp,y were here lo sefl as they howled for everything Hodman did. 
Some had homemade signs, 
such as "Oh my God, it's 
Rodzilla" and "Welcome back 
Worm. We missed you, Go 
Mavs." Six shirtless teen­
agers wore goofy hats and 
wigs and had R-0-D-M-A-N 
spelled on their chests. Others 
painted their hair blue and 
green and a few had very 
fake-looking earrings and 
nose rings. 

This was easily the Mavs' 
most-anticipated home game 
since the Western Conference 
finals in 1988. The team 
issued more than 100 extra 
media credentials. forcing 
some of the overflow to be stashed in the hockey press box. Such attention is unheard of for a team that's last playoff win came before Rodman had his first tattoo. 
Rodman, though, was unfazed by it all, 
He shook hands with singer Montell Jordan during pregame warmups, then rocked nervously from side to side as .Jordan sang the national anthem. When Rodman was the first starter announced. he danced in place under a spotlight with­out even cracking a smile. 
Bodman got the evening off to a good note by showing up five minutes earlier than he had to, getting into the locker room at 6:10 p.m. even though his teammates had been at Reunion Arena for well over an hour. 
Rodman was all business as 
he collected several pairs of 
shoes and went straight to an 
off-limits workout room. 
That's when he found out he 
was in the starting lineup. 
"He's going to start eventu­
ally anyway, so we might as 
well throw him right in 
there," coach-genera! manag­
er Don Nelson said. 
Nelson laid out his first 
game plan of the Hodman Era 
to the other 11 players during 
a 5 p.m. shootaround and 
walkthrough. Shawn Bradley 
was the demoted starter and 
he didn't take it we!l. hurling 
a ball towards a rack then 
sulking against the hoop stan­
dard while the rest of the 
team simulated plays. 

-
AUDITIONS 
For the Summer Production of William Shakespeare's 
• 

Taught in the Washington Hall Theater, this course is based on the premise that Shakespeare's plays are best understood as being both Literary texts and Theatrical scripts. 
The course starts June 19th and ends August 6th 

Students will be admitted by audition only. and will be granted full tuition Scholarships for the 6 credit hour course. Train, and gain practical theatrical experience by working and performing alongside established professional actors, directors, and a profession­al production staff. 
Students admitted to this course become cast members in the inaugural production of what will become 
-The Annual Summer Shakespeare Festival at Notre Dame-
Open Auditions in the CSC Sunday, Feb. 13th from 12:30 PM to 3:00 PM Call Backs in the CSC Monday, FEB. 14th from 7:00 PM to 9:30 PM 
**'PLEASE PREPARE 2 SHORT PIECES OF SHAKESPEARE (1 COMIC, 1 DRAMA TIC) AUDITION TIME 4 MINUTES TOTAL FOR MORE INFO. CONTACT PROF. PAUL RATHBURN (1-5069) 
t 
t 

~~-e_O_b-se-r-ve-,-.-P-'A_l_D_A_D_VER_T_l~S-E•M-E-N~T-~~--~---~---~----•-~p-ag~e-1_9
-~-T~hu~r-sd_a.,.y-,F-,e-b-ru..,.a-ry-10-,-2-0-00-·-------~ __ ____1"'" 
Calendar of Events 
NDE #60 (Mar.31-Apr.2) Sign-Up 
Monday, February 7 through Friday, February 11 103 Hesburgh Library 
Learning to Talk About Race Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, February 11-12 '• Lindenwood Retreat Center 
Freshman Retreat #27 .. Friday-Saturday, February 11-12/St. Joe Hall 
Senior Retreat #1 
Friday-Saturday, February 11-14i\0 Oakwood Park, Syracuse, IN ,, ,, '' 
,'J' 

Freshman Retreat #28 (Mar ;Sign-Up 
Monday, February 14 through:Mohct:~Y;; February 28, 103 Hesburgh Library . , , · • Targeted Dorms: Alumni. Breen-Phillips, Howard. Keough, Knott, Lyons, McGlinn, PasqtJ'?riJla West and Sorin 
Senior Retreat #2 (Mar. 31-Apr.1)•Sigo.Up 
Monday, February 14 throu~hJ~ida¥ilviatch 24 103 Hesburgh Lib1a1y ' ., .. ,,, 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, February 15. 7:00prn,. BadmHall Chapel 
Graduate Student Bible Stud§'G,oup ., Wednesday, February 16, BiO(hprn;Wiison,Co 
Interfaith Christian Night 
Wednesday, February 16,,,1'.,!1':fMt.­Walsh Hall Chapel 
Overview of Natural Fa 
Thursday, February 17 Montgomery Theatre, Co-sponsored by· the The Natural Farnuy 
Sixth Sunday of Ordinary Time 
Weekend Preslders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, February 12 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. James M. Lies, C.S,C 
Sunday, February 13 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C 
11:45 a.m. Most Rev. Dale J. Melczek, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for This Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Lev. 13:1-2, 44-46  
2nd Reading  1 Cor 10:31-11:1  
Gospel  Mark 1:40-45  

What Am I Going to Do with My Life? Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
'Tin not sure." 

There is only one other phrase, probably, that I've spoken more often than 'Tm not sure," and it's, "I don't know." 
When 1was younger I thought that as I grew older, with more education and experience, I would have fewer and fewer occasions to use these phrases. And yet, as I have gained so much in the way of educa­tion and experience, I find myself using just such phrases all the more. 
Some years ago, a senior here at Notre Dame told the story that when she was a first year student she was pretty sure she wanted to be an attorney. She studied like a future Supreme Court justice, giving her­self entirely to that future goal. She even began to pick out law schools. As time passed, and with more education and experience, she became less certain. For various reasons, some which she didn't understand her­self, she grew less sure about being an attorney by the time her second semester senior year rolled around. When asked about what she was going to do after graduation some four short months away, she would say, "I don't know." This was difficult not only because she felt the need to be certain, but because she felt like she owed it to others, especially to her parents, to be certain, and to be successful. 
Although the story of Jesus tells us that what we do is important, it also tells us that how we do what we do is often more important. Jesus was somewhat of a wandering preacher and teacher who told people who seemed sure of what God wanted of them, and sure of an exact way to be saved, that perhaps they ought to think again. Jesus welcomed with love all people, especially those most brutally excluded by society. It was not just what Jesus did that revealed him as God, but how he did it. Christianity is first and foremost a way of living in the world. 
We are well into the second semester. At times it may seem like the pressure is on. There is that popular question, "What are you going to do?" Anxiety seems to go hand-in-hand with unsurety; and at this point in our lives we expect to grow in certainty, not uncertainty. Perhaps many of us, especially seniors in their final semester, are realiz­ing that when it comes to discerning a job choice or a career, 100% cer­tainty is at least unlikely and probably impossible. 
Maybe one of the most important benefits of education and expe­rience is a dispelling of the ways in which we are tempted to oversimpli­fy the complexities of life. There is something about dying and rising in all of this, a dying and rising which takes place during this life, and which we celebrate during the Lenten and Easter seasons. Hopefully, we die to old ways of seeing ourselves that were narrow and exact in order to continually rise to new ways of seeing ourselves and others; a dying and rising that allows us the freedom to change and appreciate the ability of others to change; a dying and rising that heightens our appreciation of the Paschal Mystery. Maybe we have to let go of that image of ourselves that is so sure of ourselves, and that seems not to need God. Perhaps this dying and rising calls us to be a little more comfortable with not being so sure all of the time, and not knowing everything there is to know, exactly. What else is faith for but to give us the surety to rest comfortably in the unsurety. I'd encourage you to take some time, perhaps on a retreat, to rest in the unknowing. Campus Ministry is sponsoring three Senior Retreats this semester; and the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry are co-sponsoring a Senior Service Retreat. Call Campus Ministry or the CSC for more information. But hurry! They number of folks who are living the question are many! 
I don't need to say that what we do with our lives is important. Our choices can have a great impact on ourselves and on our world. However, maybe the question which should precede "What do I want to do?" is ''How do I want to be?" And maybe then our uncertainty can move us ever closer to the truth of our Jives, and of our faith; and ever closer to our God. Maybe the most important thing is not always what we do with our lives, but how we do it. Maybe it's time to rest, even revel, in the uncertainty, as a means by which we surrender our own wills to the will of our God. It's time to consider not so much what we do as the measure of our success, or how much money we make, or the sta­tus of our particular job or occupation; but rathe1~ to consider how we choose to live our lives in whatever we choose to do; and whether we have welcomed the surety of God into the unsurety of our lives. 
-
-(Z:\MPUS
~INISTRY 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 10, 2000 
PROFESSIONAL TENNIS 
Seles addresses women's glass ceiling 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Speaking before congressional leaders and othE>r dignitaries to accept an award, Monica Soles was so nervous her voice cracked. 
A few minutes later, in casual conservation, she settled down enough to talk about her 1993 stabbing. 
Seles' ability to overcome adversity and return to the elite of her sport e1uned her the annual Flu Hyman Award. pre­sented Wednesday on National Girls and Women in Sports Day. 
"In a single moment, the script changed forever," HealLh and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala said in present­ing the award. "She rewrote her own script." 
Seles is the 15th recipient of the honor. named after the Olympic volleyball player who died suddenly from a ruptured aorta in 1986. Seles joins Chris Evert, Billin Jean King and Martina Navratilova as the fourth tennL<; player honored. 
"It's very special," Seles said. 'Tm very fortunate to be playing a sport I love and make a fan­tastic living at it." 
Rep. Ted Stevens. R-Ala., referred to as the "Father of Title IX." received a special award for his contribution to women's sports. Title IX is a 1972 a federal law designed to equalize money spent on men's and women's sports. 
Stevens used the opportunity Wednesdav to make a case for a bill he's sponsoring that would require schools to provide each student at least one hour of physical education class per day. 
Seles. one of four women ten­
nis players to earn more than 
$10 million in prize money, was 
fortunate to play in one of the 
few women's sports that 
received widespread attention 
over the past few decades. 
However, she said she still plays 
under a glass ceiling. 

-
ATTENTION 
UNDERGRADUATE 
AND GRADUATE 
STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 
ENTER.COM 
PURSUE JOB 
AND INTERNSHIP 
OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN 
THE GLOBE 
t~ampus , Center.com 
~ The world$ largest campus job fa,/ 
"Definitely," she said. "There's still quite a difference in terms of our regular tour prize money and at the Grand Slams, too. The only Grand Slam that pro­vides equal prize money is Lhe 
U.S. Open. You train the same amount of hours, there's no dif­ference." 
Seles wa<; the No. 1 player in the world when she was stabbed during a changeover at a tour­nament in Hamburg. Germany. She stayed away from the WfA Tour for more than two years. but returned to become the tour's comeback player ol' Lhe year in 1995. She's currently ranked 13th in the world. 
"I think I've put it behind me, but it's always going to be brought up," Seles said. "And I think in life there are going to be more times that I'm going to have Lo go through adversity. You have to move on. It's such a gift to be here every single day." 
Seles, 26, acknowledged she is a more content person now than when she was a giggling teen­ager ruling her sport. 
"I was 16, 17, 18 at that time, and I was 19 when l got stabbed," Seles said. "So a lot of life experiences change and a· lot of your outlook on life. I still want to strive to be the best that I can be. As long I love to play, I think I will." 
Seles is recovering from a stress fracture of her right foot, but will return to the circuit in the State Farm Championships at Scottsdale, Ariz., later this month. It's unlikely she will ever be the dominant No. 1 again. especially with the wave of new. younger and stronger players such as Venus Williams. Serena Williams and Amelie Mauresmo on the rise. 
"All the women are getting stronger, and that's the future of women's tennis," Seles said. "I think as a player, you have to make those adjustments. All of us can be to a certain point strong. There's so much genet­ics and just nature that come into force. " 
NFL 

49ers release Woodall, Washington 
"The only thing that stays the
Associated Press 

same is change and obviously they've chosen to go in a dif­
SANTA CLARA. Calif. 
ferent direction." 
Two-time Pro Howl line­

The impending departure ofbacker Lee Woodall and McDonald follows last season's 
defensive end Marvin 

release of Merton Hanks. part
Washington were released 

of a Pro Bowl tandem at safety
Wednesday and the San 
for the 49ers. 
francisco 49ers are close to 

But the 49ers found a
cutting Pro Bowl safety Tim younger replacem1rnt forMcDonald, 

Hanks inThe moves 
L a n c e
are all part of 

"The only thing that Schulters,
S a n 

who earned 
Francisco's stays the same is 

a Pru Bowlplan to reduce 
change and obviously berth in his
its bloated 

they've chosen to go in a first season
payroll. By let­

as starter.
ting Woodall different direction . ., 

And Sana n d 
FranciscoWashington 
Tim McDonald has two
go, the 49ers candidates

saved about San Francisco 49ers tight end 

tu replace
$1 million McDonald

against the 

-Zack Bronson and Piersonsalary cap_ The 49ers remain 
Prioleau -at a fraction of
about $13.5 million over the McDonald's cost. 
pro,iected $62.5 million salary Woodall, rngardcd as one ofcap. 

the top pass-covering line­
The team must be under the backers in the league, was a

cap by midnight EST 

six-year starter for the 49ers.
Thursday. Failure to do so could result in a $1 million­


tNI
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

GANGSTERS on Campus 
Saturday, February 12th At the Center for Social Concerns 3:00pm 
Gang members from Chicago's Cabrini Green will talk about their experiences and answer your questions. 
Brother Bill and Brother Jim from Brothers and Sisters of Love, a 16-year­old gang ministry, will also be on hand for this conversation about life on the streets of Chicago. Call the CSC with questions 631-5293. 
This event is part ofan occassional series, 
"Violence-Free in the Jubilee: Building Peace in 2000.,. 
earning Pro Bowl berths in 1995 and 1997. 
Washington has played for the New York Jets, Denver Broncos and 49ers during an 11-year career_ 
General manager Bill Walsh has spoken to Young's agent, Leigh Steinberg, about restructuring the quarter­back's contract as well as Young's football future. Young missed the last 13 games of the season after a hard hit at Arizona left him with his fourth concussion in three years. 
Steinberg said he and the 49ers are working toward a restructured deal, however Young has delayed a decision on whether to resume his career until after his sched­uled marriage in mid-March. 
"To help them make some progress this week, we would accommodate them with a restructuring," Steinberg said. "And Steve would postpone the decision as to his future for a while. He's focusing on other fronts now anyway." 
per-day fine from the NFL 
Linebacker Ken Norton, Jr. is close to agreeing to a cap-saving restructured deal and the 49ers also are talking with the agent for Steve Young to rework his contract. 
McDonald has balked at a San Francisco proposal that would cut his pay, and he, too. may become a cap casualty. McDonald said Wednesdav he did not expect to ·return to the 49ers. 
''I've had a great time. There comes a time when things happen and it hap­pened." McDonald said. 

f?UgfL@ @!? @[ft]g!!J!JYjJ®
~@71 ~,. !JYj)CfJfKOIM!l.~W,, !JYj]ll@(}{J!J.1007#-1/K#J 
Open FoP Lunch and Dinner Daily 

w-.. •-. ==­
Thursday, February 10, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
PROFESSIONAL TENNIS 
Agassi bows out of Sybase Open due to back strain 
in the second round for repcat­Sybasc Open. 

Associated Press 
ed ly cursing at a linesman, Agassi, scheduled to play his Andre Agassi never eVfm made lirst match in the United StatesSAN JOSE. Calif. 
it that far this time at the in nearly five months onA year aft.•r being defaulted 

Holy Cross: Growin into the 21st Centur 

Can you make this team? 

ANSWER *­
THECALL W 

Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 

Wednesday night, pulled out of the tournament late Tuesday night with a lower back strain. 
"J wish I was feeling a lot bet­
tor. I wish I could play here," 
Agassi said at a news confer­
ence Wednesday night. "I can't 
afford to get held back by doing 
something stupid out there." 

Agassi has a chronic condi­tion in his back known as spondy!isthesis, which is when one of tho lower vertebrae is slightly forward of its normal position. About 2 percent of all people have sur.h a condition, though it's most common in pre-teens. 
Lenny Stein. the San Francisco chiropractor who treated Agassi, said it's unlikely tho world's No. 1 player will miss any action other than the Sybase Open. Agassi is not scheduled to play again until an event in Scottsdale, Ariz., beginning March 6. 
Stein said there were signs of inflammation in Agassi's lower back. but X-rays did not show any problem other than the spondylisthesis. 
Agassi flew to California from Zimbabwe. where altitude sick­ness and dehydration caused him to vomit into a courtside trash can while leading the L'nited States to a Davis Cup victory. The previous weekend, ho won the Australian Open. 
Since leaving his home in Las Vegas on Dec. 28, he has flown 25,780 miles. Now he's heading back to Las Vegas for rest. 
Agassi said he first strained his back in his Australian Open semifinal against Pete Sampras, and then aggravated it because he had to use more spin than normal on his shots in the altitude of Harare, Zimbabwe. It got worse on the 26-hour flight to San Francisco. 

"Playing here would have 
been by far a greater concern 
for me. Not only would I have 
not been at my best. but I would 
have subjected myself to real 
risk," Agassi said. "It's not easy 
to stay healthy 52 weeks of the 
year in tennis." 
The withdrawal of the top­
seeded Agassi left defending 
champion Mark Philippoussis as 
the top remaining seeded player 
at No. 2. Philippoussis, ranked 
17th in the world, was the only 
top 40 player left in the 
$350,000 tournament. 
Agassi had arrived in San Jose after a tough nine days of world travel. Ile won the Australian Open title on Jan. :,o in Melbourne, then flew to southern Africa to win two sin­gles matches for the U.S. Davis Cup team in its first-round vic­tory over Zimbabwe. 
He assured Sybase Open and ATP Tour officials Monday that he would be playing in the tour­n am cn t, which was to have been his first in the United States since winning the U.S. Open title last September. 
But Agassi called tournament director Barry MacKay after a practice session in San Francisco on Tuesday to say he was pulling out of the Sybase event. 
"He said he started getting cramps on the flight from Zimbabwe to London," MacKay said. "Then on the flight to San Francisco, it started to get worse. He tried to work out, but could barely move." 
It was at the 1998 Sybase Open that Agassi defeated No. 1 Sampras in the final, an early step in his comeback from being ranked as low as 141st in the world. Agassi has been No. 1 since winning the U.S. Open last September. 

is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Managing Editor 

Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic iinderstanding of newspaper produc­tion and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 
Anv sophomore or junior busin= major~~~~~~~!}~~:~~~!2~o~ experience is encouraged ro apply. Applicants 
should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Applicants should submit a resume and five-page statement to J,,,Jike Connolly ~y 5 p. m., Thursday, February 10, 2000. For additional information about the position, ,ontact Business Manager Dave Rogero at 631-5313, Managing Editors Shannon Ryan and Laura Petelle ru 631-4541 or Editor in Chief Michelle Krupa at 631-4542. Applicants are a!;o encouraged to :;top by the office in South Dining Hall with any questions. 
•
-

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 10, 2000 
NFL 

Massive blood clot triggered Thomas' heart attack 
Associated Prc:s. 
Derrick Thomas' legs weren't red or swollen and his body temperature was normal. 
There were no visible signs of a blood clot. doctors said Wednesday, But when Thomas was being moved from his hospital bed tu a wheelchair on his way to thera­py Tuesday morn­ing, something trig­gered a massive blood dot in his pulmonary artery that provides blood and oxyg<'n from the heart to the lungs. 
Thomas. :u. told his mother he wasn't feeling well just before his eyes rolled back, said Dr. Frank Eismont, an orthopedic surgeon at Jackson Memorial Hospital. 
The Chiefs star. who held the NFL record of seven sacks in a game, went into cardio-respiratory arrest. Thomas, paralyzed from the chest down in a car r.rash two weeks earlier. died minutes later. 
The cause of death, confirmed Wednesday by an autopsy. is common for paralysis victims. 
"A certain percentage of people with paralysis suffer from blood clots," said Dr. Barth Green. a neurosurgeon at Jackson Memorial Hospital. "Sometimes vou can see them and sometimes the.y're hidden in the deep­er veins of the body. and that's what happened with Derrick." 
Between 3 percent and 15 percent of spinal cord in,iury patients suffer from blood clots. Green said. 
Thomas was driving a car during a snowstorm on Jan. 23 as he and two 

friends headed to the Kansas Cit.y air­port to fly to St. Louis for the NFC championship game. Ile lost control of' thfl car. and it overturned several times, 
Police said Thomas was speeding and weaving in traffic, but no charges were filed. 
Thomas and passengnr Michael Tellis, 49, were not wearing seat bi>lts and were thrown from the car. Telli:i was killed and Thomas' spine and neck wer<: broken. The third person in the car was wearing a seat belt and received minor injuries, 
Thomas was brought to the hospital. i.n Miami. his homi>­town, whom he had surgery to repair his spinal column. 
The nine-time Pro Bowl line­backer had been on blood thin­ners since the accident, doc­tors said. Therapists also used mechanical devices on Thomas daily that inti>rmitti>ntly con­tracted his legs to help circu­late blood. 
"We took all the aggressive precautions that are available to people today," Green said. "It just wasn't enough." 
Added Eismont: "If I were to have it all to do over again, I wouldn't do anything differ­ent." 
Thomas had been progress­ing quickly in rehabilitation. He was allowed out of the hos­pital last weekend -although a nurse and a physician stayed with him -and he had been talking about returning to Kansas City within the next few months, said Dr. Jon Brown11. Chiefs team physi­r.ian. 
A news conference had been discussed that would have 
informed the public of Thomas· upcoming moves. 
Thomas left behind thousands of grieving !'ans and nearly as many rriends and relatives trying to cope with bis sudden death. lie will be remembered in both Kansas City, Mo .. and Miami within the next 10 days. 
Memorial services are set to begin in Kansas Ci.ty and then mov<' to Miami, Thomas' hometown and the plac,~ where he will be buried. 

Them will be a viewing Monday at Thomas' church in Kansas City, then a memorial service at Kemper Arena the following day, Chief's president Carl Peterson said. 
'Tm not sure it can hold all the peo­ple who want to attend," Peterson said. "It will be a public opportunity for Derrick's fans and friends to honor him." 
Notre Dame Film. Television and Theatre presents 

J\t lors rro n1 lIH , IiH H Io 1 1 S1 aµ;e 
All's Well That Ends Well 
by  William  Shakespeare  
Sunday Matinee February 20 ........ 2:30 pm  Thursday. february 24 . . .............. 2:30 pm  
Wednesday. February 23 ....... . . ... 7:30 pm  Friday February 25.  ...................... 730 pm  

Saturday February 26 ....................... 7.30 om 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Students S12 Tickets available at Lafortune Student Ce~ter Ticket Office. Maste1Card and Visa 01de1s call 63H12B 
The residency ol Actors tram the London Singe 1s sponso•ed. in part by the Henkels lecture Series 
[..~~~~~:~:f Tl1,s ac~v1i.y 1s riade pcss.Ole 111 part by the Ccmrrumt1 Fcurictat1on 111 Sant Jaseah Cmin'.~ t~mugh the hct1aria Ms _ .•::,••;"l\] .comrrnssmn astate agency w1•h funds from the Indiana Gene·al Assembl, an1 tte Nattonal £ndo'llment 'or 1he Arts IIA.\(: '--' 
You are invited to join the Offices and Businesses of the 
Lafortune Student Center in our 
Mi~-inter ration 
Frida Februar 11 11:30 a.m. 1:30 .m. Events sceduled include chili tasting, giveaways and an "Explore LaFortune Contest" for prizes We're at the midpoint of winter. ..what better reason to celebrate! Put on a happy face and come explore the LaFortune Student Center! 


Thursd;iy, hbruary 10, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Belles 
continued from page 28 
from the field while the Belles only shot .318 from thr field. and Albion out­rebounded Saint Mary's 51-38. 
"Wh,'n you give them second chancm, at shots an<l you don't lmve those yoLirself. it really hurls your game," Roberts said. "Th(W oul-rebounded and oul-shot us in lhP nrsl half. and that was what cost us the game." 
Albion jumpnd out to an early Ir.ad in the first half. leaving thr half with a·snven­poinl !fiad. Saint Mary's scored 18 points during thr lirst hall'. making only six of :l9 shots. During thP last 10 minuws or thf' ganw. hm.vev('I'. lhn 13nlles baltled back to wilh1n thrnn following two thrflc point.ors bv Stefani<' Pl'anncnst<'il and one 3-point si10t by Julie Norman. 
"The team w,rnt on an awesome run <lur• ing the second half." Matha said. "They really steppPd up the defense and the press. but fell shnrt in the PIHi." 
In a game ridden with fouls, both the Hr>lles and the Britons gave up numerous points on frne throw attempts. Albion fouled 20 times during the game. giving up 16 points in frflc throws. Saint Mary's gave up 17 points of 21 fouls. including a con­tn,versial technical foul bv Norman. 
During thP second hall', I\Jormun went after a loose ball and was fouled by a m1~mber or the Albion team. Energized by thr (·all. Norman threw the ball on th£' ground. not realizing the Briton guard had not gotten up off the noor and the ball but poor rclling was a factor to both teams Cambell also joined with four fouls a piece.
struck the Albion player in thP face. A throughout the entire game," Matha In 40 minutes of play, there were 54 foultechnical foul was called. 
added. "There were a lot of missed calls." shot attempts resulting in 33 points. almost "It was in the excitement of the moment Norman, Jones and Anne Blaire each 25 percent of the total score. 

and Julie didn't know she was there," 
had four fouls during the game and "It was a yery aggressive game," MathaMatha said. "I don't think it was deserved." 

Stouffer came close behind with three. said. "Both teams were playing very hard"We can't blanw the loss of the referees. 

Albion players Treasa Gourlay and Becky because it was such a close game near the end and that led to a more physical contest." 
Saint Mary's earned the rest of its points on five three-point shots and 17 field goals. '.'-Jorman led the team with 15 points. Joining Norman on offense were Jones and Pfannensteil with 11 points a piece. Jones, Roberts. and Blair each had six rebounds and Norman came dose behind with five. 
----=----=--=-·----··---~-. 


The Leadership for Competitive Advantage and 
LEADERS 
Personal Success Lecture Series 
Full-time college student or 
presents: 
graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post offer mental and physical screening. 

Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview
Mr. Joseph A. Morahan III 
1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com
Chairman, AON Financial Services Group 
"In, up, and on top in a hurry: Fast tracking yo,,r career in corporate America" 
Friday, February 11th 12:00-1:15 p.m. Jordan Auditorium College of Business University of Notre Dame 
Sponsored by the Department of l\llanagement 

Irish 
continued from page 28 
All-American scored 12 of the team's first 19 points of the half, as the Irish led 54-43 at the 12;30 mark. 
"I thought midway through the second half we started playing our game," McGraw said. "We went into Ruth and I thought she responded well and came up big." 
At the 8;39 mark of the half. Danielle Green stepped to the line and calmly sank one of her free throws, for her l ,000th career point. She became the 16th player in Irish history to achieve the feat. 
"That was a great thing f'or Danielle," McGraw said. "She's had a tremendous year and especially lately. She's played so well in the last three or four weeks. She's showing a lot of leadership and doing a great job for us." 
After Kelley Siemon scored nine points in less than four minutes, the Irish led 73-51 with 4:18 remaining. 
Then came a four-minute stretch that McGraw would like to forget. 
Pittsburgh's pressure defense, their hot shooting and Notre Dame's poor bench play all added up to a wild finish. 
It started with a Wittenmyer shot from the post. as the Panthers scored eight straight. Notre Dame was still up by 15 with two minutes left, but Michelle Katkowski. Laine Selwyn and Brooke Stewart scored eleven points in less than a minute. 
A Stewart three-pointer from the left corner with 18 seconds left narrowed the lead to 80­
74. After a turnover. Selwyn had an open three from the top of the key. She missed. Green hit one of two free throws to seal the victory. 
"We were very tentative at that point," McGraw said of the final four minutes. "I think that's why teams think they can press us because they watch the ends of our game. From now on we're just not going to sub at that point which is unfortunate." 
After giving her players a couple days off to rest prior to last night's game, McGraw has reassessed her thinking. 
"That's the last time we'll take any extra days off," McGraw said. 
"I can't wait to get to practice [today]. I think we've got a lot of great ideas about how we can fix what happened tonight," she said. "I think we'll bring our track shoes tomor­row and get the kinks out that way." 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February l 0, 2000 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Engelhardt leads Irish by leaping into record books 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN As~isranr Spores Editor 
High jumper Jen Engelhardt sprang to success at Notre Dame, making history with her lofty leaps. 
Engelhardt aims to win her third honor 
as an All­American. 
.. A I I ­
American status is great," Engelhardt said, "And I'd love to 

be blessed Engelhardt with that again. Becoming All-American. and then continuing to do iL junior year [is my greatest suc­cess]. That was rcallv reward­ing and something I never experted." This season. the senior biolo­gy and education major wants to win the third and fourth Big East titles of her career. "I want to lead the team in the Big East and have a strong finish. hopefully a champi­onship," Engelhardt said. Engelhardt won the Big East Outdoors Championships each of the past two years. She has never finished lower than sec­ond in the Big East, indoors or outdoors. Engelhardt achieved success through both talent and hard work. "She'll do anything you ask her," field events coach Scott Winsor said. "She's very con­
scientious. She works hard. and I think she puts in as much time as she's physically capable of. She's a pleasure to work with." 
Leading the Irish 
This year. Engelhardt serves as one of two captains for the Irish. a position that adds leadership responsibility to her role as a high scorer. 
"Just today, she said that she didn't think that some of the younger athletes on tho team really understood how impor­tant the Big East is," Winsor said. "And she was going to try to get that across to when we pick our captains," Winsor said. "Typically we try to pick someone who's very accomplished both athletically and academically." 
Going for gold 
The 2000 track season will not be the end of Engelhardt'::; career, not if shp, has anything to say about it. Instead of hanging up her track shoes fol­lowing graduation, Engelhardt plans to throw her efforts behind a possible run at the Olympics. 
"The Olympic Trials am right over the horizon," Engr.lhardt 
said. "That 
would be my 
them." ultimate goal.
"/ think il was a great
Engelhardt It's like thr 
takes pride honor to lead the team next step up. 
in being a and represent Notre I think it team cap­[jumping] is
Dame. 1t's something 
tain. something "I think it that I really treasure." I'm not going was a great Lo be ablp, lo honor to lead put down.
Jen Engelhardt
the team and "The coach­
high jumper
represent N o t r e D a m e . " 
Engelhardt said. "It's some­thing that I really treasure." 
Irish coaches selec.ted Engelhardt as captain for rea­sons beyond just athletics. Engelhardt has excelled in the classroom despite the rigor or being a varsity athlete with a double major in biology and education. 
"Obviously we take accom­plishments outside of track and field into consideration es are pretty 
responsive to 
letting me train after school lets out. The door's open. so I'm going to follow through on that." 
Qualifying for the Olympic Trials will require the best jumping of her career. Engelhardt will need to improve on her career best high jump of 6-0 3/4 by two to three inrhes to have a shot at Olympic glory. 
"For her to qualify for the Olympic Trials, she's def1nitely 
Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 
OD®@[fllf[1@[ru@0@coLLeGe n1GHT SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
$1 Co•#,ER (with colfege I.D., must be 21) W' J and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. 
222 S. Michigan • South Bend • {219) 234-5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 More pictures online every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 

capable of it." Winsor said. "It's going to be difficult for her because she·s so busy this semester with her education major. She needs to work on her strength. but she's dp,fi­nitely capable of qualifying." 
If sheer will power can get her there, Ungelhardt will be a shoo-in. 
"She's extremely dedicated," head track and field coach Joe Piane said. "She's very talent­ed and a great competitor." 
Every competition this year has been chalked up as a vic­tory for Engelhardt, a trend she aims to continue this weekend at the Butler Invitational. 
''I've got throe more chances to improve my standings for the NCAA meet," Engelhardt said.. 'Tm just going to take 
this as another improve in the rank chance ings.'.'  to  
Starting off stellar Engelhardt was  ranked  as  

the No. 4 high school high jumper in tht~ nation as a senior at Lakeview High School in BattJp, Creek, Mich. But she wasn't even sure whether she wanted to concentrate on div­ing or high jumping. 
"Actually I was a diver. and that was my first option," Engelhardt said. "But I always had a love for high jumping, so I went that route." 
A lifelong fan of the Michigan Wolverines, her college choice came down to Michigan and Notre Dame. Once she zeroed in on Notrn Dame. she quickly had a deep impact on the Irish. 
As a freshman, Engelhardt became the first Notre Dame woman ever to earn All­American status in a field event, placing ninth at the NCAA indoor championships. 
"That really came as a shock for me," Engelhardt said. "I rcallv went after it. and I real­Iv W<)rked hard. Plus I have a great coach." 
She's been winning praise ever since. 
Engelhardt smashed Notre Dame's indoors school record her freshman year with a win­ning jump of 5-foot-10 3/4 at the Alex Wilson Invitational. That samp, season. she began her run of top finishes at the Big East Championships by taking second both indoors and outdoors. 
Despite the early accom­plishments, Engelhardt kept jumping higher and higher. setting a Notre Dame outdoors record with a leap of 6-0 3/4. 
lier junior season, Engelhardt made ht>r way to two NCAA championships. She took 12th at the indoors cham­pionships to be designated as an All-American for the second time in her career. At the NCAA outdoors champi­onships, Engelhardt turned around to place 19th. 
"She's improved a lot," Winsor said. "She jumped 5-10 in high school, and she's jumped 6-0 3/4. When you're at that level, three inches is quite a bit. You can work years for a one-inch improvement." 



Make no mistake, Chicago Steakhouse serves amazing steaks, pasta, salads and more that seem like they should be pricey 
Earth to Andy 

(but aren't) and features a fun, casual atmosphere you don't

F1ZI"7A-Y 2/\l 

have to get dressed up for (unless you want to). Great for groups too. 
Art av,d the Arttchoke~ 

222 S. Michigan • South Bend • 219.234. 5200 
FtZif7AY Z/\8 

wwv.•.•1u·pla,es.wm/hcarrlan<l 
Thursday, Febru:uy l 0, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish are lucky to escape with victory 
Call it th£! luck of the Irish. 
When the Irish stepped on thP. c:ourt Wf'dncsday night against conference rival Pittsburgh. tht>y didn't look like the No. 5 team in lhf' nation. 
Suffering through their worst display of 
Kerry Smith 

basketball all season, the Irish just edged out assistant the H-8 sports editor 
Panthers with a 
81-74 finish. 
The Irish wen~ lucky they weren't playing ConnPc:licut. fl.utgers or Boston Colleiw. 
Thcv Wf'rl! luckv no NCM scouts were ~t lhe .loyr/Cent<~r trying to det'idr. what teams should host thP opening rounds come tournument time. 
And th<'V were luckv that the 
eighth-ranked team in the ronferenre 
wasn't on top of' its game enough to 
pull a major upirnt. 
''I'd likP to apologize to our fans and anvonf, ~vho had to sit th rough thal g11:nw b<)UUS<' we didn't play lo our abilitios,'' said Irish hDad coach MutTt'l Md;raw. "For that I apologize and our tPam apologizes. IL was the mosl cmba:.rnssing performance of the season. 
When a team breaks a school 
r1•cord for most consecutive wins with 
iLs 16th straight victory and one of its 
senior starters etrhes her name into 
the record books with her 1.000th 
point, it should be a Lime for cr.lebra­
tion. 
But for sPnior guard Danielle Grnen 
and tlw Irish. brokPn records wr.re 
nwt with brokt•n spirit~ as tlw Irish 
rPalized thP road to tlw NCAA tour­nament is going to be an uphill battle. 
"We had a lot of problems," said McGraw. "Definitely the mf'ntal part, the lack of focus. the lack of intensity, thfl lack of pride and thP. lack of any basketball knowledge whatsoever were all key factors." 
The Irish showed Wednesday that they are not as infallible as they have appeared since their winning streak began in December. ThP-y hit a low point by letting a team that lost to Connectieut by 52 points come within seven points of an upset. 
The Irish were plagued by turnovers and a non-existent inside game in the first half. Handing the ball over to the Panthers 12 times, the Irish were unable to stir,k to their usual game plan and high standards. 
Despite their height advantage under the net, the Irish couldn't con­vert in the lane. After five missed shots in the first twu minutes, Mr,Graw had to go to the to replace center Ruth Riley and forward Julie Henderson. 
"I folt uur post didn't r,ome to play mentally," said McGraw. "When you'rn looking insidfl and you can't convert. then you have to make a change." 
Hiley finished out the half with one field goal and five points. Henderson added only two. 
"Missing shots like that makes you frustrated," said fl.iley. "We should have been making those shots. I think a lot of people stopped looking for their shots after they missed a few ­that hurt us." 
Luckily for the Irish. Big East co­rookie of the week Alicia Ratay was on tirn from behind the arc. Ratav hit four 3-pointers in a row to make-up l'or the poor play under the basket, 


HOME OF THE ORIGINAL... 
Stuffed Pizza 
Come and Enjoy One of The Areas Fine Pizza and Pasta Houses 

$1 off each pizza (any size) or dinner with this AD 
Located behind Hacienda in the 100 Center, Lincolnway W., Mishawal(a 

Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 5-10 PM Fri. & Sat. 5-11 PM 
254-9177 
scoring 14 points in the first half. pro­pelling her squad to a six-point :,3-27 halftime lead. 
"That was the only reason we were winning at halftime," said McGraw of Ratay's sharp shooting. 
That lead was rut to just three in the opening second of the second half before the Irish picked up the tempo a notch. 
Realizing that their undefeated con­ference record was being seriously tested for the tirst time all season, Riley and forward Kelley Siemon turned up the intensity. They com­bined for 25 second-half points, lead­ing the lrish to a 73-51 lead with 4:18 remaining.1m the clock. 
But the win was anything but safe, as McGraw gave her starters a rest and the Irish bench squandered a 22· point lead in less than four minutes. When the Panthers began to use the press to gain possession of the ball, they whittled the Irish lead to just six with 20 seconds left in regulation. 
'Tm not pleased at all with the bench. And that's an understate­ment," said McGraw. "We're just not going to sub at that point which is unfortunate." 
The lrish have enough talent to pro­pel them to the Final Four in Marrh, but only if they play with that talent for the full 40 minutes. 
With the toughest stretch of their schedule on the horizon with road trips to Rutgers and Connecticut in the coming weeks. the Irish can't afford to falter again. 
And McGraw knows just how to ensure that. 
I'm not sure if [the Irish perfor­mance] opened their eyes our not but I have a feeling that tomorrow's prac­tice will be more eye opening than today's game," said the head r,oach. "I think w<•'ll bring our track shoes tomorrow and get the kinks out that way." 
The views expressed in this column are lhose oflhe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 


NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Maryland upsets Duke in Cameron 
Associated Press 
, DURHAM, N.C. The streaks for No. 3 Duke are over. and at the hands of an unlikely opponent. 
The 23rd-ranked Maryland Terrapins had lost 28 of their last 33 against the Blue Devils, but got 31 points from Juan Dixon and two key 3-pointers late by Terence Morris in a 98-87 victory Wednesday night, snapping Duke's record 31-game Atlantic Coast Conference winning streak. 
Duke (18-3, 9-1) also had the nation's longest winning streak snapped at 18 and lost in Cameron Indoor Stadium for the first time since Jan. 11, 1997, against Wake Forest -a span of 46 games. 
Dixon's point total matched a career high, while Lonny Baxter added 22 points and Morris had 20 as the Terrapins (17-6, 6-4) tied North Carolina for second place in the ACC. 
The game was tied 83-83 when Morris, who had struggled all night and allowed 28 points to Shane Battier on defense, hit a baseline 3-pointer with 3:27 left to give Maryland the lead or good. A minute later, he made another shot from beyond the arr, and the upset was brewing. 
Dixon helped close it out with three fouls shots over the final 31 seconds as the Terrapins outscored Duke 15-4 down the stretch. 
Morris finished 7-of-22 from the field. 
Neither team led by more than seven points until the final two minutes in arguably the best ACC game of the year. 
Duke made 13 of its first 17 shots, but unlike most of its wins during the Cameron streak, the Blue Devils couldn't knock out their opponent, turning the ball over 12 times in the opening 20 minutes. 
The Terrapins trailed 33-26 before going on an 11-0 run behind six points from Baxter, who had 14 in a fast-par,ed first half in which both teams shot at least 50 percent. 
..... 
.. 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 10, 2000 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 

-
Belles host conference championships in peak form 
... 
.. 
I 
I r 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
S,unt M.1ry's l:.dicor 
After two years of provi­
sonarv membership in thP 
'.\11AA.' thr Saint Mary's swim­
ming and diving team opened 
their season rPady to makP a 
statement. 
· Pressing Alma and Calvin 
College to harder victories than 
expectPd during Uie rngular 
season, defeating a surprised 
Univrrsity of Chicago at its sea­
son opener and busting three 
school records, it's safe to say 
their voice has been heard. 
And the sr:rnaming is just 
about to begin. 
Closing their season this 
weekend with a home court 
advantage at thP first ever 
championship Pvcnt Lo be host­
ed by Saint Mary's, there is no 
question in any team mPmber's 
mind that this will be yet 
another statemi>nt made by the 
team. 
''This makes a huge state­
ment about how serious we art> 
in athletirs." f'irst-yPar head 
coaf'h Gretchen Hildebrandt 
said. "We want the MIAA to see 
we·re moving forward, and this 
can really bring a name to 
Saint Mary's." 
Outside of the championship 
hype. the women arP focused 
and readv to swim. 
"Thesi women are ready," 
Hildebrandt said. "\Vf~'ve talked 
a lot in prartir.e about this 
being a no-pressure situation. 
When thesP women get bPhind 
the blocks. behind their lane. 
thev will own that rar.e. Thev're 
not going to have to wc;rry 
about anything else." 
While the team will certainly 
face close encounters with 
Alma and Calvin College this 
weekend, Hildebrant has 
focused her swimmers on per­
sonal performance. not in team 
standings, she said. 
'Tm not pitting my swimmers 
against the other teams. caku­
lating points here and there," 
Hildebrandt said. "We're not 
readv for that as a team. What 
I want them to feel is confident. · and like they're enjoying them­
selves in the water." 
The focus, Hi!dPbrandt 
emphasized. is on swimmers' 
personal performanres. 
"I want them to be concerned 
with their own race," she said. 
"w,,·re not readv to start dral­
ing with points h~,rr." 
Hm-vever. losing two meets by 
less than l 5 points is a far,tor 
weighing un the women's 
minds. as the opportunity Lo 
rome out on top surfacns again, said co-captain Mirhelle Samreta. 
'Td say that our primary goal is for personal best times and staying unified," Samreta said. "but the team can def'inilely chase the competition. It's defi­nitPly a thought in our minds. We arnn·t just out for personal bP-sts here. Wt\ do know that we have a chance of beating out these other teams." 
For a tt>am that started its season under more than its share or turmoil. surmounling hPavy roster changes and tran­sitioning to a new coach. the mental toughness developed throughout the season will play a critir,al role in the weekend's championship. Throughout the season, the team's montal capacity has been a ronsistent strength. Hildebrandt said. 
"When I tell them to go a time in prar:tice, they'll go that time in pra<'tice." shr said. "They have an excellent balance of mental toughness and physical fitness. These are m1•ntally Lough swimmers." 
Samrrta agrrnd. 
"Mentally, we·n~ very 011 top of our game." slrn said. "We've been training physically and mentally. and we're rna:dy to 
go." 
Evidence of that mental preparation has been exhibit11d throughout the past seV11ral dual nrnets, with the women posting season and career bests during thP peak of their train­ing, virtually unheard of in the late months of thr season. 
Coming into the linal stretch. that is not expected to change. 
"They're still going to swim fast," Hildebrandt said. "They don't have anything to worry about." 
Having erased three records to date this season. several records are also going to come under fire this weekend. possi­bly giving the 1999-2000 team some historical fame in the books. 
Junior sprinter Colleen Sullivan and sophomore sprint­er Danielle Clayton will go head to head against the 1999 50 freestyle record. which Clayton broke in the 1999 champi­onships. The pair could also knock on the door of th(\ 100 freestyle rPcord, uncontested sinr.e 1994. 
Samrnta, who has rn-st't her 1()() breastroke rnrnrd twice in her collr.giatt• career. is also expectt>d to put her record on the line in her final rnllegiate meet. 


NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

The Belles dive into conference competition this weekend with the MIAA Championships. Saint Mary's will host the meet for the first time ever. 
Freshman standout Laurnn Sullivan. really are no standouts. Every Smith will also try her 200 "They've been knocking on single swim is going to be phe­breastroke record. which she the door all season," nomenal." has broken twirn throughout llild1:brandt said. "We're tired And that, Hildebrandt empha­the season. Bouncing back rrom of' looking at that record 1" sized, is the statement to be illness, Smith will have to be Other key performances are made. "mentally focused," llildebrandt expected from co-captain Olivia "My major goal for them is to said. Smith in the distance events, finish, look back and say, "I 
Finally, the 1999 200 medley Sarah Sandahl in the 100 loved swimming this year," relay record could fall, with freestyle, and Erin McCarthy in Hildebrandt said. "l want to be pressure from freshman Lane the 200 individual medley. able to look at the overall Herrington, sophomore Alicia "I could go through every­turnout and see them reach Lesneskie, Samrota, and one," Hildebrandt said. "There their personal goals." 

<••··•..•····•·.· •···.. rr .. 
.,,-,. .... .... ,_, .. ,,..,•, 
0;bou..~ ···••-t 
All.interested studentsareitivitedto:a.ninformardiscussion with Gi.lberto Card~rl;s: Phb:, the· Di~;~tc,t sf th~ ri~~ in;tliilire: ···1rii&fmaticih on classes 
off~f~dthrough theinstitut~ and. tt1~~oals~rn som~ Clf the issues to be · ·addr~9,~e¢.·· 


. . . ,·: '• 

:.·•·•~r.~•1•,t1:-u_rsdd~~:::_·p:e-aj••ia·. =to-eh 
· 1::1u;M1JeD1en1; o~~PIU. 
· .::.,,__·:··:,;\-··;-'..?'·\ .-.:.:_·:. ·,:..·;;;;.;_;~wq·1~i;":~,.,:'·:·: ·:'~---:·.::ii:::;!/>·,.. 
.,.0..:,i,.,.-_,.~e,..•dtui•~.~· 

" ;.fm' '~~r,»ej-i!t,ttzn; ~·•' .. .. ·•·· .. ·.·· Following the discussion, ~a Ali~n:za wUI b~ having offlcefelectiOllS, . ..··. . ..•..••toFt,~¢,urJ~,:~big Y~~b;i.•···..·.. ; <••··· •··. 
Anyquestiqns.contll~tAna~rk634·Zs{t2 . 

Thursday, February 10, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 40 Relieve 68 Lennon and others THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2000
1 Schemers 41 Parentheses, 6 Hummus holde( essentially CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your 42 "Too-ra-loo-ra­DOWN DAY: Robert Wagner, Laura Dem, personal life may be less than ade­
10 Gardener's 
Judith Anderson, Kenneth Branagh, quate today. You may discover that
purchase loo-_" 1 Place to put an 
Roberta Flack, Mark Spitz your lover has not been completely
14 Essential acid 43 Packed, as old newspaper 
Happy Birthday: You will want honest about his or her feelings. 15 Complete to pursue something creative this Don't get involved in triangles. 000
pistols 2 Iglesias tune 16 See 63-Across 44 Gospel out of 3 Photo year. You will get bored ifyou are left LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Dis­Washington? accompaniers, to do a monotonous job that offers agreements at work will cause
17 Arizona ...
at times nothing but a paycheck. You will delays. Do not become intimately
48 Meancharacter trait? 

want to be cutting edge in whatever involved with colleagues. Gossip
49 Helpmate 4 Shave

20 Artificial it is that you pursue -ahead of the will damage your reputation. 000
haircut

21 In great demand 53 "Forget it!" crowd and taking a leadership posi­SCORPIO (OCT. 23-NOV. 21): 5 Going around in tion. This is a year for change. Your Social activity and/or pleasure trips
22 Buoys 59 Child's plea in 
circles numbers: 5, 13, 22, 37, 41, 48 should be on your agenda. You will
Oklahoma?

26 like Florida 6 Turkey holder ARIES (March 21-April 19): meet interesting people and find out pharmaceutical 63 Lake_ Don't get involved in other people's valuable information. Love will en­
7 "_ show time!" 

packaging? College, in secret affairs. Problems with in-laws tice you and desire will overwhelm 34 It may be 16-Across 8 Bathwater tester or relatives will cause friction be­you.000 assumed 64 South Seas 
9 Islands off tween you and your mate. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. staple Portugal TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Sud­21): Don't question your peers or
35 Common 
den romantic encounters will not be boss about tli.eir way of doing things.
preservative 65 Pulitzer winner 10 Hopalong 
lasting or fulfilling. Use discrim­Just roll up your shirtsleeves and
Pyle Cassidy

36 Duffel filler ination and be up-front about your pitch in. You will gain allies if you
portrayer

38 Neon 66 Make (one's intentions. 000 are easy to get along with. 00000 way) 11 "Nope!" GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Prob­CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If
39 Prefix with 
lems with your lover are evident. you make plans to invite friends
puncture 67 Ones with pull? 12 Minibar site 
You can make financial gains over, you must be cautious not to
13 Dugout, for one 

through investments. Be secretive pick those who are sure to disagree about your intentions; let others find on issues. You can get the most done
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 18 Israeli 
statesman out after the fact. 0000 if you focus on working around the Weizman Puzzle by Alan Jay Weiss CANCER (June 21-July 22): Trav­house.00 19 Celebration 32 "Keen!" 52 Adapted (to) 
el will be especially rewarding today. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Put A pleasure cruise should be consid­effort into visiting with those that
suffix 33 Selfish sort 54 Lofty lines 

ered. Your need to experience unusu­you don't see that often. You can 
23 Bygone 

37 He played Fred 55 Bell the cat al interactions with others will be make new friends if you get out and Chrysler the junkman satisfied. 00 partake in social events. 0000
56Dame_

24 Southern corn LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You
40 Part of many Everage 

find that entertainment will cost you may experience financial losses if
bread Quebec place 

57 Tie-breaking dearly. Your mate may try to talk you you have trusted someone else with
names 

point into spending more than you can your money. Be careful not to give ­
heads 45 1998 N.L. M.V.P. 

afford qr take advantage of your too generously to children or groups 46 Magic word generosity. 00000 youbelongto.000 27 Argus-eyed 47 Abbr. on mail to Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Birthday Baby: You've got a get-up-and-go attitude that will make it diffi­
28 Musical Miller ZIP code 10001 are available by touch-tone phone: 

cult for others to keep up to you. You set your goals and don't get side­
29 Break down, in 49 Dither 1-900-420-5656 (95rt per minute). 

tracked. You are detennined, eager and persistent in all that you do. You are a way 50 24-karat Annual subscr1ptions are available for the quick to learn and eager to try new things. D E =+-::::+-:,+:-A 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,
S K 30 Writer Baber 51 "thirtysomething" 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
P Y 31 Radiant star years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

E L ___.__,_.......__ P 
10 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
--~----------------------------------------------------------------------­
FOURTH AND INCHES 
ORO~\J! 'JOf-tJ/!..W! YNc ,,,wo "I: 1=1c,v E~M-TL'( ~ow OW,_, S,QVIR~~L IN 'To "ThB"-~IOOL 
Fox TROT 
"--"""-'---'--...____________...._____,.____,
->.iO 
TOM KEELEY 
\::N T~£ S&Vl~R.EL !>1 
l"OL\..OW 1\'.E ~l., E.N MS. 1..1""-? c,Ui A.SD CW.St. tll-li\.'tN ~'\:. c;.1t.."1T \.IOL.€ '+J ' 
""""'E.
11..tl (,I,~ 
GILL AMEND 
fSHLINI<.' 
I CAN SEE WHY 


A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
1 .... 
beam.1@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than L~,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 

Name _______________________ Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 



Leapin' Lizards 
Senior high jumper Jen Hngelhardt is a track and field ,1ll-American. She also holds the Notre Dame high jump record.
PORTS 

page 24 Engelhardt 
O
THF page 28 BSERVER Thursday, Fehruary IO, 2000 
Conboy best AD candidate 
Ding-dong lhe witch is dead. 
Enthusiasm swept campus late Monday night as Domers heard of the irnpimding resigna­tion of reviled athletic director Mike Wadsworth. 
The often­elusive tnith is. however, that Mike Wadsworth wasn'L a bad athletic direr.tor. 
lie was the victim of bad timing, a few verv visible, bad dedsions and an industry that thrives on results. Would he have taken the fall had the football team gone 10-2 instead of 5-7? Would relatively minor infractions (oh wait, they c:alled them major) and a mod­est probation hit the Domers as hard if WP were winning'? 
This was the business in which Wadsworth works and was thP story of his tenurP undPr the Dome. He was plagued by failures in Notrn Dame's two most visible sports -football and men's basket­ball. And he's judged by these failures. 
Never mind that Wadsworth helped to establish Notre Dame as a school of all-around athletic excellence rather than just foot­ball achievement. Under Wadsworth, non-revenue sporL'i became rnspP.cted nation wide. 
Notre DamP won a national championship in women's soc­cer; the women's basketball team becamP. the force it is today. The men's and women's 

-
fencing teams finished four 
straight years as NCAA runner­ups. and Notre Dame has 
enjoyed success in a multitude 
of other sports. 
But unfortunately for Wadsworth, f'enr.in'g isn't on television everv week and women's socrer doesn't have a contract wilh NBC. Volleyball doesn't pay the bills. 
For each fenr,ing success there was a football failure. For every Matt Doherty he hired. there was a Bob Davie. For every John !'vfacl.eod, hP per­suaded to resign, tl1ere was a Lou Holtz he was perceived to have persuaded.

• 
He successfully guided Notre Dame to four consecutive com­missioner trophies in its first 

see CHURNEY/page 17 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish survive home scare from Panthers 
The Irish started the ganrn with an 11-2 advantage in the first five minutes behind Alicia Ratay's two 3­pointers. Notre Dame cooled off quir,kly though, as they managed to hit only 41 percent of their first half' attempLc;. 
"Missing shots like that makes vou frustrated," center huth Hiley said. "We should have been making those shots. I thi11k a lot of people stopp1xl looking for their • shots after they missed a fr.w-that hurt us." 
Notrn Dame expanded thr l1rnd to 1 :1 hut Pittsburgh's Amanda Wittenmy1ir srored nine points in thP last two minutes of the half to rut the Irish margin to 33­27. 
About the only positive for the Irish in the first half was Hatay. The 5­foot-11 forward, the Big East's co-Hookie of the Week, connected on 5 of 9 field goals, including !'our from ~-point range to lead thn Irish with 14 points at intrrmission. 
"That was the only reason we were winning at halftimr," McGraw said, rnf'erring to Hatay's shooting. 
At halftime, McGraw made some adjustments. including implementing a full-court press and emphasizing getting the ball to her post players. 
Bi!ev was the main rer,ipicnt of the new strategy. The 6-foot-5 
see IRISH/page 23 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Belles fall to Britons without Matha's aid 
By KATIE McVOY Sporrs Wrirer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team looked Lo overcome the odds and defeat Albion College, despite the injuries and illnesses that plagued the Belies during this week's praclices. Britons 71 
Unfortunately, 
Belles 63
the odds did not prove wrong, The lfolles lost to the Britons 71-63. 
Before thn game, Saint Mary's was concerned that the illnesses and injuries it suf­fored this week during practice would negatively affect its per­!'urmanr,e against Albion. Saint Marv's came into the game without starting forward Kristen Matha who has been out with a log injury since last Saturday's contest against Calvin College . 
Earlier this week. Matha had been givrn thP go-ahead to play in the game by the team doctor. 
Due to fear of a blood clot, however. Matha was unable to play al'tcr all. Coach Dave Hoeder used a different starting line-up without Matha. 

Junior Julie Norman and sophomore Kelly Jones started at the forward positions, sophomore Kelly Hoberts start­ed at the center position, and Mary Campione and Jamie Stouffer took their places as guards. 
.. It always hurts the team when vou're down a player," Hoberts said. "But other team members really stepped up tonight and played hard." 
During last Tuesday's game, Roberts was hit in the hrad with a ball, resulting in a con­cussion. She had also been given the go-ahead to play. She played the first half of the game before she was forced to sit out again due to another shot to the head. It is likely that she suf'fored another concussion. 
Rebounding and consistent shooling have been key to the Bellrs strategy during the last four games. Wednesday Albion bested Saint Mary's in both cat­egories. The Britons shot .426 
see BELLES/page 23 


By TIM CASEY Sports Writer 
They filed out of the JoycP Center court with a collective look of dis­gust on their faces. If you just arrivrd, you would h a v e 
thought Irish 81 
t h e wom­Panthers 74 
e n s 

basket­ball team had lost to Pittsburgh. 
Thnre was no indica­tion, other than on the scoreboard, that Notre Dame 120-2, 11-0 Hig East) had won its 16th strnig:bt game -a school record. 
"It was the most embarrassing perfor­manr.c of the season," Irish head coach Muffet Mr.Graw said after her team's 81-74 victory. "I was really glad no one from the NCAA seler:tion committee was here tonight." 
What the reprnsenta­tives would have seen was a team struggling to make short jump shots, -even layups -in the first half'. A team that turned the ball over an uncharacteristir, 27 times. A team that saw a 22-point lead with 4:18 left in the game dwindle to six in less than four minutes. 
'Td like to apologize to our !'ans and anvone who had to sit thro.ugh that game," McGraw said, "because we didn't play to our abilities." 
_:r;. 
Swimming/Diving vs. Maryland vs. Conneccicm
~JJ-'1 

MIA.A Championship '-~:~::/ Friday, 5 p.m. Saturday, l 2 p.m. 
SPORTS e 

Today, G:30 p.m. vs. St. John's ATA Saturday, 7 p.m. Track and field t&,,-,· vs. Nebraska-Omaha ar Defiance College 
.,, s. W" 
at Butler lnvirational ~~ Friday, 7:05 p.m. Saturday, 3 p.m. 
GLANCE 
Friday-Saturday 





