-------------· -------­

Lewis Chicks 
ND administration in the wrong? 
Originally built as a convent in the 1960 's, 
Students respond to an alleged rape incident at 

Wednesday
/,eu1is llall has siru:e /Jecome the home ofmore 
Notre Dame and the administration's response 
than 300 women. 
to the crime. 
APRIL 5, 
Scene . page 12 
Viewpoint . page 11 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 115 


Hesburgh discusses environment 
• Father Ted cites society as biggest threat to nature 
Ry KIH.IN TURNER 
1',j l'W\ \X,' ri lt'I 
l·atlwr TliPodor,' Ilt'shurgh, l!nivt>rsity pnisicl1•nl 1•nwritus. kil'kPd off a disrnssion Sl'rics Llml will lwgin tlw cPll'liration of Earth \'1onLh 2000 al Noln' Dam!'. ThP sPriPs addrr•ssPs Llw problr•ms and Llw soluLions 1·01H'Pr11ing c•nvi­ronnwntal protPclion. 
"Tlw ,,m·irnnnwnl is such an 1•normous thing -il is th.-l'llVl'­lop P in whirh \\'(' li\'P." said I lc>sburgh. 
I IP lislNI "tlw lim'<' gn•at bk•ss­
ings w,, havt' for hum;u1 lilt• and l'Xisl.Prn·p" w,; watt•r. land and air. Togt•th!'r with tlw tr•t11pPrnt1• di­111alf'. till' walPr supply and Llw Lill to tlw sun. 1l(•sburgh stall'll. "If' you sal clown and pl,mnPd out a 1wrl'Pct pla111·t. _vou could not do lwttPr." lll'sburgh notc'd that "Lht~S<' rnnditions do not Pxist any­wlwn' dsP ,Ls far as WP know." 
Soci"lY pos<•s an innnasi ng lhn,at to 1·l1>an air. wator. and land, said I!Psburgh. 
"Thi• gill (;od gaw us is a world in nquilibrium !that! WP an• destroying," lw said. 
According Ln Ilesburgh. it' this imbalanct> IJl'rsisls. and if' W!\ do not do sonwthing about tlw ginmhousp-<'ffod, wn ani going to d(1plt•lt~ tlw Earth ol' iL'i oxygm. 
/\ir, orw of' llH' first lll!cessili(!S 
Lhal Ilcshurgh mcnlionnd, has cnm<' undnr hna\'y prnssurn and is sum,l'ing in quali­ty. 
"Tlrnrl' arc so many places on liarth wlrnrn llw air is unbrl'ath­aLlc." llcsburgh said. 
Tlw pollution of watPr sources is llw socond factor that Ilesburgh list­I'd ,LS fi.mdamPntal to P11vironmm1tal prnlili'ratirlll. 
"\Np hav1• taknn tJw s<'cond bigg<•sl 
rnquirenwnt on Earth and man­agtKI to pollute 97 percrnt of it... lw said. 
l'l'l!Servalion oi' land rnsources is anotlwr nssential k£\Y in maintaining tlw stability of tlm onvironnwnt. The 
U.S. provides a grnal portion of llw world's agricul­tural supply, he said. 

"We have the most beautiful farm­land in tlw world and yet we arn const.antly taking land· out of the agricultural production... said !lesburgh. 
Ilesburgh idtmtilied the rising generation as the first in remgniz­Earth is something we need to ing the importance of environ­take care of," said Hesburgh. . ment.al awarcne&'i and conscious­The preservation of the envi­ness. ronment, Hcsburgh said, 
"Your generation, I think, has finally gotten the message that the see EARTH/page 4 
HTTP:/ /OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
ND honors McKenna with Laetare 
By JASON McFARLEY News Wricer 
Notre Dame will rncognizn Andrew McKenna, chairman of the University's Board of Trustees since 1992, with the 2000 Laetarn Medal, the highest honor the University bestows and the oldest one given to American Catholics. 
"[He has] 
not only dedi­cated time McKenna and resources to many charitable causes ... but also, by example and leadership, [hasl led others to dedicate them­selves as well." said University president Father Edward Malloy. 

"The causes you support are diverse, but prominent among them have been the Church and Notre Dame, which has benefited in a special way from your energy and vision," Malloy told McKenna while informing him of his selec­tion for the award. 
McKenna learned of his selec­tion early last week, according to Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations and Information. At 
see LAETARE/page 4 



ND senate changes hands; presidents reflect on duties 
have improvnd the lives of Notre University committees such as "To help the transition go O'Donoghue stressing the impor­
By LAURA ROMPF 
Dame students. CLC, First Ynar of Studies and smoothly we have appointed a tance of good communication. Assistant News Edicrn 
"Wo madn several positive the Student Disability commit­transition chair," O'Donoghue "I can't say I have any regrets. chang1~s such as the extension of tee," 1\i1urphy said. 'This is also said. "It's been a fairly smooth If I could change anything, I Transition Liml' l'or stuclenl SafoRide's hours. and based on the focus of the Board of process." would have worked more on governnwnl bngan April 1 at thP rider-ship this past week­Trustee's report in May. We Also, Murphy has met with communication," Murhpy said. midnight wlwn Micah Murphy's end, those hours suit the stu­looked at several committees O'Donoghue to answer questions "I feel this is where most prob-term as studt!lll body prPsidc~nt dPnts bnttnr." where students were either not and advise him of people who 1ems lie -communication cndecl and Murphy represented at all or were could help his platform materi­among people in the office, with B r i a n 
said his underrepresented." alize. people from administration, and O'Donoghun administra­Although O'Donoghuc has ()'Donoghue among stu­took office'. tion also been in office less than a week, said that both dents in gen­Murphy helped to his administration has laid Murphy and eral. We
"Fortunately this year

said his increaso groundwork to work for the student body probably
there were no major

tPrm was student same fulfillment of campaign vice president could have b n h involvem1mt promises that Murphy's strove Michael controversies where I done a better rc>warding in sporting for. Palumbo have job up and
would have had to make 

and t'duca­activities. "There is no single, one item given useful down the 
t.ional. O'Donoghue w o an immediate, important. 
which is first on our agenda. WA arlvicc. whole com­
"For-workecl on are launr,hing several different "We're a definitive decision." munication tuna!PIV this V<'ar thnrn Wt!re no a1h !(~tics, 11s perial Iy with projects at once to ensure they new adminis­chain to keep major 0 l'Ontr.oversi<•s wlWl'f\ I Midnight \,1actncss and lhe bas­go into dfoct as soon as possi­tration and people more
Micah Murphy

would have had lo make an b~thal I student section. Oncn ble," O'Donoghue said. we're going to informed and irnnrndiatc. important. ddinitivc again, the student section is now "Structurally we have just fin­operate by outgoing student body president receive more decision," lw said. '"I low<'v<'r, I bark up and running. Also stu­ished selecting our staff and set­our own stan-information hopP that we nrndn improvn­di~nt season tickds for hockfly ting tho budget. Now it is time to dards, guide-from people." nwnts on tlw quality of tlw stu­arc now available." go forward and start working," lines, and goals, but both Micah Murphy also urged dPnl <'XfJ<'l"it>nct> lwrP on cam­Another goal ol' th<' Murphy he said. and Michael have given us many O'Donoghuc not to forget his pus" administration was to incrPasl' The <'Urrent transition period guidelines to effective servant role as a student servant. 
Murphy also hopt's scvPnd tho voico of' thn studnnts. between lhe two administrations leadership and for this guidancH "Hopefully [O'Donoghucl will programs his administration "Finally Wt\ have lwlpP<I to gnt should be smooth because both we ure grateful." he said. c·onstruC'.tc•d. such as Saf'oHiclP. more student reprnsentation on parties am working together. Murphy offered advice to 
see SENATE/page 4 


-___ _J 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, April 5, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Assess abortion 

cases separately 
When a 16-vear-old Friend called to ll'll me slw was prngnant~ I locked myself in a room and let her voice innumnrabk concerns. 
She wantNl tlHi babv. S1ubhorn as ever, shP wouldn't lwar or postponing tho picturo-pm'l'cct 
lil"o shn wantnd with tlw  
child's father by considering  Lauren Berrigan  
adoption or abortion.  
Fventuallv. and dan• I  
say, thankf~lly. her baby's  .<,;ports  
health forcnd doctors to  Procfor:tion  
perform a medical abortion.  
She later admitted thal. in  
many ways. slw knew her  

life would offer more opportunities since slw was chilctloss. 
UnfortunatPlv, often duP to fear or lack of money. neitlwi voluntary nor wquired abortions an' arnilab!P to all young girls. In middlr~ school. I learned of peers who had forced miscarriages. One, onlv 1:1 vcars old. asked her bovfriend to push ho,: down the stairs. /\.nothcr \\1ilS willingly attackod by a grouµ of young men who beat lrnr stomach. These methods mirmr the crudnst of early abortions, when angd-makers -the abor­tion facilitators -would jump off chairs or poke around with a quill to kill tlin fetus. By shunning legal abortions today, we indirectly cncounLge confused teens to subject themselves to practices that should haw stopped centuries ago. I can't imagi1w that this illustrates the Catholic way. 
Tlw Church bclicives pregnant teens should either raise their ciwn children or bring lifri to anotlwr family through adoption. Unfortunately, not every unwanted pregnancy can br\ rPsolvml through one of these means. Who considers the high school student who drops out or school due to a diflicult nine months, preventing a timely graduation or threatening the chanc(! of any fur­tlrnr education? Who thinks of the co-cd who must leave her part-time job (a means of paying for college) becaust! of her pregnanr,y'? As dis­heartPning as it seems, tlw answer is not always the Catholic Church. 
SomP havn credited my pro-choicP stance to my public schooling. I wasn't brought up with strong Catholic values, they tell me. I don·1 value the meaning of life, the future of a fetus, blah. blah. blah. l do believe that the rights of an unborn child should bn protected. but morn so, I insist the future of an insccurn young girl must first be ensured. 
Some tennage mothers marry a suitable father, find prosperous jobs, arrange for adequate day­care and live happily ever after. The majority don't. 
This dominant group knows they can't raisP a baby, can't keep a job and don't havn a fatlrnr for their child. I know girls lik,) this on a variety or levels, and I see their hidden mgret and impend­ing failures: to raise a child and continue thPir own much needed grov.1h. 
Ir a tf1enagrr can admit her mistakn and understand her inability to cam for a child at the time, she should be all~wed the right to an abor­tion without being chRstiscd by society. 
I don't expect every pregnant teenager to run to their nearest abortion clinic. Some [eel that keeping hl'r child is the only way to take rnspon­sibility for their ac.tions. Som(' think offering a baby up for adoption lessens her own burden while benoliting another family. 
Teenage mothers should be supported for any selection, be it parenthood, adoption or abortion. All thrnc take careful consideration and require many sacriticas. 
It's a wugh choice and by critieizing abortion, we only make it toughf\r. 
The views expressed in /he inside Column an, tho~e of the author and not necessarily those <1{Tlw Obserrwr. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Snmhe Jacqueline Browder Helen:1 RJy:irn Graphics Brigid Swt'C11L'Y Jose Cuelbr 
Sports Production Karie McVoy 
Laurm Berrigan Viewpoint Lab Tech Du,rin Fend! Liz Lang 
Tl](" Ohserv« (USPS 5')9 2-4000) i, p11blished Mondo;-rhrough l'riday i:x~ept s.hu ins exam ;u1<J v,1t;..1tio11 pc-.-ioJ\.. The ()b-.crvcr (.., a mc11,ho::1 of tb,.: A\so... i:uni P1t::i:,. :\II n:prnducrion riglH.) :ue-u.·.1oi,:rvt><.L 

THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Art: "Full of Emptiness."  . Theater: "The~ Wiz," 8  
works by Kuna Na. 9 a.m.•  p.m., Mend1!I CentPr  
7:30 p.m., Colfax Cultural  Mainstage, Lake Michigan  
Center, South Bond.  CollHgn, Hernton Harbor.  
. Art: "A Lili• in Art."  . Art: "!lead of'thc Class,"  
works by Marg,trni Iannelli,  wnrks by it•achcrs. ll 11.m.•  
11 a.m.-5 p.m., New '.\1oon  7:30 p.m., 1 larbart Gallery,  
Gallnry. Benton Ilarbor.  Long Beach.  

Friday  Saturday  
. Music: Fernando Ortega  . Music: Billy Hay Cyrus  
in Concert, 7:30 p.m.,  Concert, 7 and 9:30 p.m.,  
ELCO Performing Arts  Hamada Wagon Wheel  
Center. Elkhart  Theatre, Warsaw.  
. Theater: Dancing at  . Film: "Hear Window."  
l.ughnasa: By Snut.h Berni  3:45 and 6:30 p.m.,  
Civic Theatre. 8 p.rn., Tho  Vickers Thcatrn, Thnrn  
Firehouse Thoatro.  Oaks.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
U. of Iowa students storm office to join WRC 
IOWA CITY 

In an "absolutn dedaration" thnt University of Iowa's Studm1ts ,\gainst Swnatshops will no longm-stand !'or the way Ul President. Mary Sun Coleman has hanclled Urn sweatshop issue, members of the group entered her olTice and refusod to l1~ave -unLil UI Public Safotv officnrs rcmov,1d them. • 
Approximately :-rn members romaincd in Coh~man's oflicn through thn night, saying tlwy will rwl leavr, the building until their dmnands are met. 
"Consider this an occupation of .Jnssup llall." said Ned Bertz. a UI graduate student and S/\S mamher. "We may have been movnd physically, but our demands have not budged." 
At 2:20 p.m. Monday, l G members or SAS entered Coleman's ol'fice to confront her. Speaking for the group, 
"We may have been moved physically, but our demands have not 
hudged ... 
Ned Bertz Students Against Sweatshops graduate student member 
Hc•rtz demanded that Coleman pub­1icly and formally sign on to the Workers' Bights Consortium using membnrship forms provided by the consortium, publicly and formally end the Ul's aflitiation with the Fair Labor Association and produce a stringent code of conduct within two wonks that would be monitored through the workers' consortium and firmly enforced by the U/. 
Although tlrn Ul had attempted Lo meet one of' the SAS demands on March 31 when it sent a lotter of intcmtion t.o the workers' consortium lo join the group, consortium steering committne member Schunker Gopalakrishnan said the group sent the UI a lettPr Monday asking for clar­ification on the March 3 l lntter. adding that the workers' consortium is not sum of' UJ's exact intent to join. Coleman also r,~rusnd tho otlrnr SAS rPquests. 
"For tho time being, I liavn elected to remain in the labor association," she said. "I don't think it is the limn to hack out. l am going to remain a member for now because I believe that is the right thing Lo do." 
Ann Rhodes, the vice prnsident !'or university relations, said the group's occupation of Jessup I !all was not. c1 surprise. 

Officers search for NC State senior 
HALEIGII, N.C. 
Officials with the Whatcom County, Washington. Sheriff's OITicP {WCSO) pr,rf'ormed an organized search and rescue operation over tlrn weekend in a continuing effort to locate 23-year-old Leah Roberts, a former North Carolina State senior who has been missing since she left town for spring break on March 
9. Hoberts. a Spanish and anthropology major who was scheduled to graduate in May, dropped out of NCSU jusl weeks before her disappearance. On March 18, her wrecked spurt utility vehicle was found aban­doned on a logging road in Whatcom County, accord­ing to the WCSO Missing Person Report. "The vehicle was found totaled and rolled in a wooded area ol' tlrn highway [near Canyon Crnek!," said Whatcom County Sheriff Tom McCarthy. "After determining that the vehicle was abandoned, we started a missing persons investigation," he said. The mason for Hoberts' pres­ence in Washingtou is unclear at this point. According to WCSO Detective Mark Joseph, her vehicle was found near Mt. 13akm, which Joseph bnlieved Hoberts was interested in visiting. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Acn1\Venlhcr !'ill forecast for daytime -1.:mHJilious an<l hjg.h ten1pernture~ 
H  L.  
Wednesday  ~  59  45  
Thursday  ~  58  40  
Friday  Q,,,,,  58  37  
Saturday  ~  50  33  
Sunday  ~  51  37  

8,cQ,~4.f~Qi}~ d 
Showers T-storms Ram Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy v,a Associmed Pres:; Graph1c!:Nel 
30 foot fall kills Ohio U. student 
ATHENS, Ohio 

i\n Ohio University student died after falling from a third floor ,~xterior hallway during his spring break vacation in Florida. OU freshman Andrew Guglinlmi, 19, of Findlay, Ohio, died Sunday afternoon in the Gulf Coast Modica[ Center in Panama City Beach. Fla., rrom compli­cations stemming from the fall. Cuglielmi foll from thn harlway of the lloward Johnson Motel at tlrn Boardwalk Beach Hesort at 12:25 a.m. on March 23, according to a Panama City Beach Policn Dnpartrrnmt news release. He had been staying in the motel with friends. The fall was about 30 feet, said Russ Smith, general manager of the motf'I. Gugli,)lmi landncl on the concretP and was uncon­scious when an emergency medical servicn transported him to the hospital. "As best as we can dntc•rmine, he was l11aning over the railing to· talk to p1wple bnlow and foll when he leannd over too far," Smith said. Deborah Armstrong, a registernd nurse at the hospital, said they admittnd Guglielmi early Thursday morning. Slw would not release any information concerning his status during his hospital stay. Panama City Bouch Policn believe alco­hol may have played a part in the accident. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<" forecast for noon, Wednesday, Apr. 5. 

V1a A;:m;,c,ale-0 P,11&~  
Atlanta  64  34  Memphis  70  39  San Diego  67  56  
Boston  58  48  New York  56  45  Seattle  52  40  
Chicago  58  29  Newark  57  44  St. Louis  73  42  
Cleveland  49  28  Orlando  69  53  Tulsa  88  46  
Honolulu  81  68  San Antonio  83  45  Wash DC  58  40  



Wednesday, April 5, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


BOG to sponsor O'Laughlin seat in memory of Kristi Morris 

By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Nancy Midden, outgoing student body president, came to thn Board of' Governance> meeting for one last time Tuesday to request a co­sponsorship 
"In memory of Kristi Morris, I was thinking of purchasing a soat fin her namnl in O'Laughlin, spon­sorod by !Saint Mary'sl stud1mt government." Midden said. 
Morris, a senior at Saint Mary's, dir,d in a car accident Saturday, March 11. BOG approved the motion unanimously. 
Studfmt body president Crissie lfonrn~r announced at the meeting that Molly Kahn would be the new student trustee for Saint Mary's. Amanda Spica will replace Kahn as the incoming Executivn Board secretary, leaving her position as mission commissioner op1-m. 
Michelle Nagle, student body vice president, reviewed the situa­tion surrounding the projected constitutional oversight commit­tee. 

ounts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
For Your Best Tan Ever! What's Your Plan? Get a Fun Tan! 
We've kicked open the doors at the new FUN TAN University facility on the corner of 23 and Ironwood! Near Kinkos. FUN TAN brings you the newest innovations in designer tanning with beds and booths that deliver 40% more tanning rays than any other bed on the market!! 
Why settle for less? 
272-7653 NEW University Lo...:ation State Road·23 & Ironwood 256-9656 Comer of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood 
"Angie [Little, tho outgoing exec­utive vice president and SAB pres­ident! and I have been discussing the constitutional ovnrsight com­mittee. The meeting will be delayed for a couple of weeks," Nagle said. 
She said the delay was needed to raise awareness about the com­mittee. 
1\1eredith Sonnycalb, tho incom­ing Saint Mary's reprnsentativo, was introduced to the Board, as was Veronica Kessenich, the new Notre Dame Student Senate repre­sentative. 
Kessenich detailed the actions of last week's S£'nate menting. She said the biggest issue under con­sideration was the revision of' Notre Dame's Student Union con­stitution. 
"The Senate is discussing the creation of a permanenL seat for SMC in the constitution," Kessenich said. "Hopefully it pa'>S­es." 
Kahn explained Convergence 2000 to the Board, an event set for April 28-30, which is the same we11kend that many groups will be on campus, including the Madaleva Society, Parents Council and prospective students for Spring Day on Campus. 
"I wish I had the words to express what a phenomenal [event] this is," Kahn said. "People around the globe are actually coming to this. It \Viii really be an opportunity [to get! a global pPr­spcctive." 
Sixteen noted female theolo­gians have each given a Madaleva Lecture in past years, including Saint Mary's own Gail Mandell. The scholars will gather at the College in honor of the Jubilee to lecture, teach and discuss issues with students. 
In other BOG news: 
. 
Residence Hall Council elec­tions arc set for April 13 in Saint Mary's dining hall. There will be another informational meeting today at 8:30 p. m. in 303 Haggar. 

. 
Interviews for the Diversity Board will be Wednesday and Thursday. Appointments will be made next week. 



SMC appoints 2000-01 student body trustee 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Wricer 
Molly Kahn was recently appointed the Saint Mary's student trustee for the 2000-2001 year. 
"This is a very unique opportuni­

ty," Kahn s a i d . "Very few colleges have this position, let alone fone] that votes. We 
are lucky Kahn as a col­lege." 
The responsibility of a stu­dent trustee is to be a liai­son between the students at Saint Mary's and the Board of Trustees. All juniors are 



(C)py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 1.) Flowers 2.) Honey University of Notre Dame 
3.) Copies Done Right! 
Phone 631-COPY 
When you want your pictures 
High Volume Copying sharp and done right the first Color Copying, Scanning, & Printing time, we understand. The Copy Binding / Laminating/ Fax Service Shop in the LaFortune Student Newsletters / Reports / Manuals 
Complete Desktop Publishing Service 
Center will make certain that each copy you need is perfect, 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! 
free from blur or loss of resolution. In fact, we want to make your copies Quality Copies, Quickly!"' picture perfect, clean, and visible. If 
Monday-Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnightyou're still out of focus on copies, we Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm will put things in perspective for you, Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm and make the kind of photocopies you Sunday: Noon to Midnight want. Stop in soon and check us out! 
Copyright 2000 • All Rights Reserved • 4100 
invited to apply for tlw posi­tion. A committee reviews the applications, interviews and then makes a recom­mendation. Marilou Eldred, Saint Mary's president, helps make the final deci­sion of who is chosen. 
Saint Mary's is unique in that it created a position for a student member on the Board of Trustees. Most schools, including Notre Dame, do not have the posi­tion. 
Kahn feels it is important for the Trustees to be aware of the needs of the student body. 
"I think there needs to be a continued education between tho Board and stu­d en ts," she said. "It is important to get students involved and let them know what is going on with deci­
sions that will affect them 
and their institution." 
With the College's Master 

Plan just getting· started. 
Kahn said she feels it is 
important to be able to 
communicate effectively to 
the Board what student life 
is really like. 
As a freshman, Kahn was on the freshman class board and as a sophomore, chaired sophomore parents week. She is also an orien­tation counselor coordina­tor, servt>d on the judicial board and a chairwoman in VISA (Volunteer in Service of Admissions). Kahn also served as Board of Governance mission com­missioner. 
"I'm really honored. think it's a wonderful opportunity to serve the student body," she said. "Communication is the most important aspect and [I] will bn an outlet to voice student concerns." 
Kahn is inheriting the position f"rom Manuela Hernandez. 
..------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 5, 2000 


Earth 
continued from page I 
"rnquirns a study, a dedication, and requires a virtuo of stewardship." 
Despite currnnl problems. lhe f'uturn ol' envi­ronmental awanmess looks bright. according to llcsburgh. 
"Somehow we can crnaw a whole generation of pe'ople like yourselves to bocomo models and send out leaders that !'ace the enormous prob­lem of the hun111n race." 
llesburgh, in c<1njunction with tho biology department, has croated a rnsearch station in Wisconsin. one that llesburgh predir.ts will bm:omn the "prcmior rnsearch station in the world." 
Tim station. nanwd I.and O' Lakes. provides a place to study nature in its prisline state, llesburgh said. Containing twenty lakes. rivnrs and ancient l'orPstry. 15 chosen biology majors will have the opportunity tu study the environ­mPnL · 
"We lulVf~ a wonderl'ul lab with all the latest technology," said lh\sburgh. As a memlrnr of the National Science Foundation Board, lfosburgh helpod to establish 

Laetare 
continued from page l 
prnss time. McKonna was unavailable !'or com11w11 l. 
;\ nominating committee considtred candi­datns, and Univ1ffsity administrators ap­proved the sel<iction, Moore said. 

"lie has been involved in "He has been based company sine<' l W,4. numerous voluntner activities 
involved in numerous McKcnna will rncnivf~ the 
that further the mission of' the 

volunteer activities LaPtarn Medal during the 
Church and of' Catholic educa­
Univnrsity's commnncemenl

that further the 
tion," Moore said. 
exercised on Sunday, May 21-. 

!'vtcKcnna remains ospecially mission of Past rncipinnts of" thn award 
activP in his honrntown or 

the Church. " includn Presidnnl .John F.
Chil'ago. Tlwn' Jw has snrwd K1mnedy. Speak<1r of' the llousP 
as dirPctor or the archdiocese's 
of' l{eprostrntativtis Thomas

Big Shouldors Fund and tlw Dennis Moore 
"Tip" O'Neill, University presi­Chilclrnn's Memorial Hospital of' director of Public Relations 

Chicago. IIP is a form(']' chair­man ol' tlw board ol' trustncis ol' tfw Museum of ScicncP and Industry. lie is currently a director of' the Chicago Bears. the Chicago Cubs. :\IcDonald's Corporation and Tribune Company. 
McKC'Ima. a 1951 Notre Dame gruduall\ in business administration and marketing, is also comrnittPd to his alma mater. II<' s1H"vns as a follow or tlw University and will become 
the atmospheric research lab in 13oulder, Colorado. but noted that the immediate sur­
roundings of the facility were highly polluted. 
llcsburgh noted that the facility [has! "uvcry kind of flora and fauna," and that together with the Wisconsin Conservation, thn program can continue to preserve the research station. 
"It is a wonderful atmosphere-the clean air and the fresh rain." llcsburgh said. 
Wh<m recalling his own porsonal rctronL<; at Land ()' Lakes, Ilesburgh spoke of the peace the rr~gion offers. 
"I talk with great enthusi_asm because it is what has knpt me sane. Wlwn worse comes to worse, I can sneak up to the cabin." 
Hesburgh also elaborated on his involvemc11t in thr. Search for f.:xt.ra-T11rrostrial Intelligence (SAT!). Ilesburgh summariznd Urn vastness ol' Lhe universe. \Vhich may include possible life ' forms. 
"It represents God's matnrial creation. If God created that much malerial crnation, who is to tell God, who c.reatnd that much beauty in the world, Lhat there arc only two kinds of ~piritual creation?" ho said. 
I lesburgh listed the cxistonce of the soul and angels as Lhn two types of spiritual creation. "God is omnipotP.nl -he can do anything," added IIesburgh. 
chairman emeritus and a life trusten in May. 
lie and his wife, Joan, madn the larg<'sl sin­gle gift for student scholarships in the history of the University. In 1998, tho Center for Continuing Education was subsequently named MeKnnna llall in tlwir honor. 
McKcnna earned a law ct,1grne from DePaul University in 1954 and joirrnd Schwarz, an international paper-packaging distributor, a year later. lln has presided over the Morton Grove. Ill.­
dent <1mcritus Fatlwr Theodow 
llnsburgh and social activist 
and "Dead Man Walking" 
author Sister Ilelrn1 PrPjean. Ilis three prPde­
cessnrs as chairman 




Senate 
continued from page I 

keep Lho imago that you can still be a regular person and be involved in student government· Ideally there can be a balance between academics. cxtra-curric­ular activities and a social lifo," Murphy said. 
"Remomber that you aro a stu­dent: do not take yourself' or your j{)b too seriously. This will be the best year or your life -you get to mnct many new, great p()ople. You arc given many privileges, but with these privileges comes responsibilities. Hcmcmber why you am there and who you am serving. Most of' all. have run." 
()'Donoghue said hn has learned from the Murphy admin­istralion and will use these lessons during his tnrm as stu­dent body prnsidcnt. koi•ping cer­tain programs and making some changns. 
"Michanl and Micah slarted a lot ol' great programs which we will continue," o·nonoghtw said. "l lowtwc.r, we have uniquo initia­tives wo'd like to son p1irf'ormed for thP studcrnts." 
"We am striving for a rebirth or thn Stuclnnt Union," ho suid. "Tlrn 
Notre Dame student body has always had the ability to change the world. [Next Aprill it will no longer be a possibility but a prob­ability." 
Although Murphy's term is over and he is reflecting on the past year, his words echo O'Donoghue·s thoughts as he looks toward the futurn year. 
"I'd like to be remembered as somoono who could identify with the students and was able to make this place a little better from when I inherited it," Murphy said. "I hope I served othnr students and hopefully mad<' a few small changes that will last decades here on campus for the bettPrment of the student body." 
"I wouldn't trade this cxpcri­onco f'or anything," Im said. 
O'Donoghue's said he antici­pates the same sentiments as Murphy. 
"I Iopefully lil'e will bP better for us having lwnn hore," he said. "Our goals are to build communi­ty, to serve Orn studtrnts in any way possible, and give them the opportunity to do great things ­and thny will WP bnliev<' in thn students and wn'rn just hnro to holp them realiZI' tlwir full potm1­tial." 


ATRIA SALON 289-5080 
1357 N. IRONWOOD DR 
1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 
MODELS NEEDED FOR SHORT HAIR CUTS WOMEN/MEN FOR TRAINING CLASSES 
MUST MENTION THIS AD JUST $10.00 
of thP Univnrsity ---------------------------------------.. 
Board of Trustons are also l"ormPr 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
medal win1wrs. 

PROVOST'S DISTINGUISHED VISITING LECTURER 

PUBLIC LECTURE 
"AFFIRMITIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT: MYTHS AND REALITIES " 

BARBARA RESKIN 
Professor of Sociology at Harvard University 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2000 
7:30 PM 

HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 
RECEPTION TO FOLLOW IN GREAT HALL 
SPONSORED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY 
Barhna Resk1n is a Professor of Sociology at Harvard University. She has i;,Jblishe:3 several dDzen articles arrl diapters arrl six books on sex and race inequality in l.al::or markets -Recent books include The Reali ties of Affinnatiye Action in flW)f.MfB1t 11998), Wooeu apd Men at ½brk (with Irene Padavic, 1994), and Job Quenes, Gender a1e1ies· Explainino: Ynoea s Inroads into Male Q::qipatims (with Patricia Roos, 1990). Professor Reskin has been Vice President of the Anerican Sociological Association, Study Director of the CO!l1llittee on wmen,s Enployment at the National Academy of Sciences, ard has served as an expert witness in discrimination cases. 





orld~:. 


Wednesday, April 5, 2000 COMPILED FH0M T!IE OBSEHVER WIHE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Scientists: Volcano dangerous, close to eruption 
ll/\TE, J1\l'!\N 

.\s llw sun S('I Tt1r-sclav on Mount Usu, clouds of thick black smok(• pourPd from of' 0111' ol' its gaping natPrs. and sci(•11tists warn1•d llw! a mussiVl' (•rupl.ion could .lw hn•wing. Tlw 2,•rl r,-[llol vokano 011 llw norl!J­Prn .JapatWSI' islnnd of' 1lokkaido brokn its 22­y«•ar si!Pnr.i> Friday. spouting gas. smokP and rlPbris. \Ion• cratPrs haw since' burst opon on its flanks. and magma is straining upwurcl agai11s1 lllP mounLai11's skin. Hokkaido l!nivPrsity gt•ologist TadahidP lJi said lw and otlwr t'XJH'rts hav1~ s1:e•11 signs of' a developing "]ayn donw.. -a cmw-sllapPd mass of' magma that nudgPs its way through tlw l:arth's rrust. Kno\\'11 as a pyrorlasti" 110\,\', such an oc:rur­rt·rn·t> would Ill' 'iimilar to thn l'r11ption ot' ~lounl St. llr·lcns in llw Uni!Pcl Stat<•s in 1980, lw adt!Pd. 
Love Canal demolition razes elementary school 
NIAC:'\Hi\ FALLS, N.Y. 

llPmolition lwgan Tut>sday or tlw final con­lTl'tf' rPmindPr o!' onP of Llw nation's worst bruslws with hazardous wast!'. A backlHH\ Lore into Llw 93rd Strl'<'l School at Love Canal, making way f'or park spa<·p l'or the new wav«! of rnsiclnnts who havP moved into the cl«~ancd­up and nwilaliwd 1wighborhond over tlw last st'VPral years. Tlw school vvas on tlw outPr­most l'Usp of' a dangeH" zone 1:rPalt!d by snPp­ing toxir wustP from a canal-turned-1:hemical dumpsitP. Tlw school dosPd in 1980 as pan­ickPd parPnts movnd Uw childrni1 it s1\rwd out ol' Llw an•a. Thousands of tons of' dioxin, PCBs and otht\l" l'lwmicals had bt'<'n buried at tlw sit<• along tlw Niagara Hiwr. 
Right to prayer in Capitol upheld by judge 
WASIIINGTON A l't'deral judi{<' upheld a Maryland prr~ach­Pr's l;irst :\mcndnwnt right to pray inside tlw 
U.S. Capitol TuPsday. U.S. District Court .Judge\ Paul FriPclman ruled that tlw Capitol Police haVf' no authority lo stop people from making spPcrlrns or Pngaging in otlwr nondisruptive forms of b1-liavior. Tlw Bev. Pi111Te Bvnum an assor iatP pasto r at \IV a Ido r I' c:·h r i s t'i an AssPmbly, Waldorf. :vtcl., sued police following an incidt'nl at tlw Capitol in NovcmbPr 1996. Bynum was part of' a small group taking a se~lf-tour ol' the\ Capitol whl'n the group stoppt\d l'or a fm, minuks of prayer -bowing thPir lwads and l'olcling their hands. Arcording lo Bynum. polirn told tlwm such activity was considPrccl to lw a "demonstra­tion" and llwy would lw subject lo arrnsl if thPy e·ontinucd. 

-3:i.48 
"1/asdaq:

-57.84 
4148.89 

n 
-74.79 
NVSE: 

V 
652.30 
-7.-16 
S&P 500: Com11osite 1494.73 
Volume:

11164.84 1,026,400,000
-11.24 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COffPARY 'J'lCKER ,.. CHANGE CHANGE i'Jl:ICE
! 

ClSCO SYST!a'JS  csco  -t0.25  +0, 1825  73.12  
MlC~OSOtt C'OR'P  MS1"T  -2.SS  -2.1150  aa. SG  
NASDAQ lOO SHAJ\  QM  -.97  -0, 9975  101. 9t  
OK.AC!..!. CO~Ti'  Okel.  -1..A:l  -0. !,350  75.94  
D!LL COMFUTB:R  Or.LL  +1.75  +I). 9350  54.. 31  
SU'N MIC"ROS'/STEM  SlrnW  +O.l1  1-0.157~  '90 .oo  
P,U.AMl:T'JI IC TECH  t'M'r~  -lf..19  ~.1. 5.900  9' .. 1-6  
JDS UNIPHASE  ,1I),0  ·!LU,  -4.. 62!iQ  107 .0'0  
INTEL ~Oll:$1  1mc  . l. 61  •l.1:lSO  132. 1'5  
t'ICI WOI\LDC'Olt I:N  l'ICOH  -2 ,lO  -o. 9975  u.u  
said 14 Serbs were also 


PERU 

Toledo set to upset incumbent 
A.ssodated Press  
CAJAMAHCA  
PrcsidPntial hopd'nl /\lcjandro  
Tolt,clo's campaign caravan slowly  
travelncl Lo a rnllv in Lhis northern  
;\mlP;rn city, m1tklng f'rnquPnt stops  
to hug supporters and kis!-i babies  
-and to l'lear star-shaped spikes  
lcl't to llatti'n the candidatp's tirPs.  
A LPIPvision camnra crnw focused  
on TolPdo. n onP-time shoeshine  
boy turned 1!<:onDmist and dis­ 
n1sscd how to capllire the most  
unflattNing n•conling of' tlrn man  
who i!-i Uw leading threat lo upset  
Prnsicknl Albnrto l•ujimori's bid for  
a third term.  
Willi Sunday's ballot only days  
away. coverage of To!Nlo on Peru's  
mostly pro-government TV stations  
has featurnd ominous warnings  
that llP will cut govcrnmPni food  
programs to the more than 42 per­ 
cent of' Peruvians whn rr.lv on the  
aid for tlrnir daily survival.·  
Fujimori has characterized his  
opponent as an undisciplined, free­ 
spcn ding populist whose offer of  
jobs and education will plunge the  
country back into the hypcrinrla­ 
lion or tlrn 1980s.  
"We will continue these laid] pro­ 
grams while we begin to generate  
jobs," Toledo promised the crowd  
of :{.000 supporters and curious  
onlookers. "Our people have digni­KRTPhoto  
ty. Mothnrs and fathers don't want A group of anti-Alberto Fujimori protesters help an injured comrade  
their childrnn spending the rest of TuE:sday after t~ey clas~ed with supporters of the Peruvian president  
th<'ir lives stepping intn line for a ~urmg a.campaign rally m Ayacucho. Tensions continue to rise regard­ 
mg the tightly constested race as the April 9 election approaches.handout."  
On a rwarby corner, Adolfi  
lluamani perched atop a portable waist-high grinding wheel that he uses lo earn a living sharpening knives. "We've alreadv seen in the last 10 years what Fujimori's government can do. Now we need someone. new." the 33-year-old said, peering over the crowd. "Toledo is an econ­omist. tie's from the countryside. lie knows poverty. He has a pro­found understanding of Peru." /\mid charges of government­sponsorPCI harassment and political sabotage, Toledo has made a recPnt, surprising break from the pack of opposition candidates lan­guishing in the single digits in elec­tion polls. According to a poll released March 24 by the private firm i\poyo, Toledo was in second placn with 27 percent -compared to 10 pnreC'nL a month earlier.  Fujirnori, for months a clear favorite to win, was still leading in late March with 37 percent, according to the survey, which had a margin of error of 2.5 percentage points. But Toledo's recent surge in pop­ularity has shaken the 61-year­old 's chances for an outright majority and pollsters are suddenly talking about a showdown between the two candidates in a second round runoff. Toledo's campaign has capital­ized on his dark, Indian features and his background as one of 16 children born to a humble Indian bricklayer and his wife in a remote Andean village. "Send El Chino back to Japan," his supporters in Cajamarca chant­ed, using Fujimori's nickname, which means "the Chinaman," and  refers to his Asian features and Japanese ancestry. Toledo's image has been boosted by his wife. Eliane Karp, an elo­quent red-haired Belgian anthro­pologist who has accompanied him on the campaign trail and who speaks Quechua, the native tongue of Peru's highland Indians. The couple's campaign success has drawn comparisons to Fujimori's meteoric rise a decade ago when the then-university rector rose in the polls a month before the vote and staged an upset victory over novelist Mario Vargas Llosa in a second round ballot. Toledo says he recognizes Fujimori's achievements and wants to build on the free-market policies and economic stability that helped earn his opponent a landslide sec­ond-term victory in 1995.  

YUGOSLAVIA 

Soldiers, Serbs hurt in Kosovo melee 
firm the number of Serbs Kosovo, Capt. Russell Berg, forced an end to the Serb
Associated Press 

injured in the melce -said the other injuries were crackdown in Kosovo. and
PHISTINA 

reportedly involving shov­contusions and abrasions. the pullout of Yugoslav
Kosovo Serbs angry over 

ing, clubs, dogs and rubber It was the highest num­President Slobodan
thn arrnst of a Serb for ille­

bullets -which began ber of injuries in a single Milosevic's forces, new vio­
gal weapons possession 

Tuesday in a southeastern incident to U.S. peacekeep­lence in the region has
clashed Tuesday with 

mountain region near the ers in Kosovo so far. The thwarted efforts to estab­
NATO pnacekeephrs, leav­

Macodonian border. clash also marked the first lish normality in the
ing 11 Americans and one 

At the Pentagon, major incident between province.
Pole injun~d. tlrn U.S. mili­

spokesman Air Force Lt. Serbs and NATO peace­According to a U.S. state­
tary said. 

Col. Vic Warzinski-said the keepers since a tense situa­ment. the. trouble started
Thn indflpcndent 

confrontation lasted eight tion in the enclave of when American military
Yugoslav nows agm1cy Bnta 

hours before the crowd of Kosovska Mitrovica calmed police and Polish soldiers of
Serbs who confronted a down last month. the 18th Air Assault
hurt. including 10 who 

U.S. unit was dispersed. The NATO force is devot­Battalion seized two hand 
wcrn struck by rubber bul­

Warzinski said the most ed largely to policing and grenades in a Serbian
lets fired in an attempt to 

serious injury to U.S. troops disarming militants. But house in the village of
hreak up a Snrbian crowd. 

was a broken hand. A U.S. nine months after NATO's Sevce, about 40 miles south
llowever, the U.S. mili­

military spokesman in 78-day bombing campaign of Pristina.
tary said it could not con­


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 5, 2000 
Gregoritch predicts tragic consequences froDI nuclear war 




I ELECTIONS I
l11---....................--..................................._ ......._ .....................................___.........,..........____...........................____.........................................1i 
I I
I ~ 
I ~ 
II i APRIL 3-5 II i 
i I
I i
i ;
i I
I 102 COBA I
; I
i FINANCE OFFICE I 
By KRISTEN FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 
The medical effects of world­wide nuclear warfare would bring immediate and long last­ing tragic effects, said Dr. Steven Gregoritch in a lecture Tuesday. 
"Warfare has never been the same since tlrn advent of the nuclear bomb," he said. 
He stressed the harmful med­ical effects a nurlear war would have on the world·s population. Grngoritch explained the differ­ent types of nuclear bombs and the radiation that arc produced by each. In the bombing of Hiroshima. the death toll after the first dav totaled 45,000 with 91,000 in]urnd. mostly from second and third degree burns sustained from the immense radiation such bombs produce. 
The statistics are even more frightening for a hypothetical worldwide nuclear war between Amr.rica and another nuclear pow,~r. Conservative temperature at ground zero can son's UNA which cause it to reach temperatures of more mutate or prevent it from being 2000 degrees C<. lsius. able to be copied during repli­
"It doesn't matter if you are cation. in your bomb shelter or not." Grcgoritch stressed the he said. "At that temperature, importance of disabling nuclear you are f'ithcr going to die of bombs and ensuring that this asphyxiation because of the type ol' catastrophe never hap­lack of' oxygen or you will be pens. crematnd from the immense Gregoritch graduated from 
heat associ- University of  
ated  with  California­ 
this type of  "ft doesn't matter ifyou  Berkeley with  
explosion." He said that pnople even 10-15  are in your bomb shelter or not. Al that temperalure, you are  degrees in nuclear and electrical i>nginccring.  
miles away from the blast experi­ence adverse  either going to die of asphyxiation because of the lack ofoxygen or you  As a graduate student in physical chemistry at  
effects  the  will be cremated from the  Notrn Dame,  
instant the b o m b  immense heat associated  he worked in the radiation  
explodes.  with this type ofexplosion."  laboratory  
T  h  e  s  c  and  earne~I  
include loss of eyr.sight from wit­ Dr. Steven Gregoritch physician  his doctorate in clrnmistry in 1984. He  
nessing  the  graduated  

estimates predict betwenn two and 20 million dP.aths in the 
U.S. in a limited nuclear war and 20 to 160 million in an all­out nuclear war. Tho world would experience 1-2 billion deaths in a few weoks with more than four billion in 12 months. 
The immediate cause of deaths for those in the target area would be the 180 mph winds that throw normally harmless debris into the air al extremely high velocities, slash­ing and impaling those who arc 
I
I 



II i FIN 
I 
intense light emitted when the bomb is set off and second and third degree l'lamcl burns that ocnir when clothing lights on fire and skin burns. 
The even more serious effect of a nuclear bomb is the "fall­out" that occurs when the explosion sends radioactive particles thousands of feet into the air, where tlrny gradually !'all to earth, sometiml's thou­sands ol' miles from the blast. 
This radiation energy causes most of llrn long-term effects 

I
I 


CE CLUB II 
~ 
I 
from Indiana University Medical School in 1986 and completed his train­ing in both internal medicine and radiation oncology. 
Gregoritch currently practices radiation oncology at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center. He also serves as a physician for the Indiana National Guard. 
Gregoritch 's lecturn. part of the South Bend Cent1ff for Medical Education's mini-mr.d­ical school taking place this week, was Lilied "Lifo in a Nuclear War: Averting a 




I I
I I
I I 
I~ OPEN 'TO ALL FINANCE MAJORS II 
I I 
~ I
I i 
[,a] @] 


Wednesday, April 5, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Bravo: Wolllen 01ust continue struggle for equality 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY A,~ociare News Fdiror 
FvPn in high-paying jobs. 
women <:am substantially less 
ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!!!!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting applicants for the position of Admissions Counselor 
-As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff. the Counselor is expected to make an impo11ant contrihution to the recruitment and selection of the freshman class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents. high s1.;hool personnel. and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning. travel. communications within the geographic area. assessment and evaluation of applications, and group/individual information sessions on campus. Additional responsibilities. including the possibility of diversity recruitment. will be assigned b) the Director of External Operations and the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
-Cc1ndidates should possess a bachelor's degree and familiarity with all aspects 

ofsrudent life ill Notre Dame.  
- Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills. enthusiasm. diplomacy. and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Saturday mornings.  
- Preferred sta11 date is July I. 2000  

Apply with resume, cover letter, salary history and reference information by April 14, 2000 to: 
Admissions Counselor Job #0007-10 I Department of Human Resources University of Notre Dame Notre Dame. IN 46556 
Are You Waiting for Last Call or a Wake-up Call? 

Don't Let Time Run Out! 
lhan mmi. Among women cxecu­1.i\'c~s of' FortunP :iOO cnmpanies, women cam only 68 pcn:ent of what t.llf:ir main r,mmtnrpart'l P.arn, Female surgeons cam 77 perc:ont of what malli surgnons l\arn. 
"Education docs make a. differ­ence, but among women with four­year college degrees, lhey were earning only So percent of what male collogn graduates with a bachelor's degree earn,'' said 


April 6, 2000 11 a.m. -2 p.m. Dooley Room -1st Floor/LaFortune 
Or call 1-800-405-9200 for a site near you. 
,\ program of Screening for \kntal Health, Inc. 
Bravo. 

Bravo revealed whv she believes women are paid less than men. 
'Tm going to tell you a secret," she said. "Women earn so little money because employers pay them so littlo. Why do omployors do this? Because they can." 
In the past, women were paid less than men because it was thought that they didn't need to make as much monev because they had a man to support them, Bravusaid. 
However, she emphasized the need to revalue jobs that are tradi­tionally held by women in order to lessen the pay gap. 
"Why do child cam workers eam poverty level wages?" asked Bravo. "They earn these poor wages ber,ause they are doing in the workplace what women do for l'ree in the home." 
Men are not hurt by women receiving equal pay, said Bravo. 
"Most men don·t loso when women get equal pay," she said. "In fact, families benefit." 
Bravo also indicated that reports of sexual harassment to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) have tripled, but the agency's budget has not. The EEOC was set up to handle sexual harassment and discrimi­nation claims by the 1964 Civil llights Act. 
"Many women who call the "9 to 5" 800-number have said 'stop' to the person who is harassing them or have reported it to manage­ment," said Bravo. "The problem is women often don't have the power to make it stop. It is up to employers to set consequences for sexual harassment." 
The sexual harassment cases 
c::JrL
7JF 

"Before Casti connubit. Early Catholic Responses to the Eugenics Movement in the United States" 
Sharon M. Leon 
Program in American Studies University of Minnesota 
Thursday, April 6, 2000 
4:15 p.m. 116 DeBartolo Hall 

Christmas in April Benefit Run 
Plus 2-Milt Wal\: >l 
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 


that make the news are anomalies because few cases actually settle for millions of dollars in favor of the plaintiff, said Rravo. 
"Most sexual harassment inci­dents aren't reported and most cases that arc don't go to court or are handled internally," said Bravo. "This happens because many victims of sexual harassment can't afford an attorney. When they do go to court, they usually don't end up seeing a dime of money and it's a very upsetting, emotional process." 
Bravo also advocated policies to , help employees balance work and families. 
"There is a syndrome that I refer to called 'Those who get tho good jobs better have a wife at home,'" said Bravo. "This is because if you want to advance in many compa­nies, you have to be willing to meet, move, travel and put in the face time." 
Although she said the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 is a step in the right direction, it does not allow for paid leave. and many cannot use the Act because they cannot financially afford to use the h~ave. In addition, the Act covers only half the workforce because it applies to companies with 50 or more employees and a person has to have worked at the company for one year. 
"By putting in place fami!y­fiiendly policies in the workplace, we have to understand that it's good for society to have people tak­ing care of families," said Bravo. "For all our family value rhetoric in thi<; country, we really don't value families." 
In order to make changes, peo­ple must organize, said Bravo. 
1(,,,.,1,,·, I•· rJ,,. .\'o:1lio11Hi .\tnrl,1/ llli1t·,-. \"~ 1n·1ritt,; {',-1i1·~ I} 
ill parlm:r,hip wilh the National lnstitutt> on ,\lcohol .\bu~c anti Alcoho!i,m (NL-\.\\) 

A\\ 'ProGude to \;enefit anm~ m~1
,11HI the Ceutcr for Suhstaru:c .-\h11sL· Tre.it1m:nt (C'i.-\T) 

R--~Sponsored By 

Nn.~.~.~J~i. 


page 8 The Ohserver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 5, 2000 
' . ' 
I I 
' 
I I 
The University ofNotre Dame's 
C. Robert Hanley Lecture 


Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert "The 106th Congress: A Report from the Speaker" 
Saturday, April 8 

2:30 p.m. 

Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 


The Hanley Lectures on Values and Public Policy at Notre Dame are underwritten with a gift from C. Robert Hanley, a 1954 Notre Dame graduate and the founder and chairman emeri­tus of Federal Data Corporation, and his wife, Margie Hanley. The lectures are delivered both on campus and in the nation's capital as part of Notre Dame's Washington program. 
Wednesday, April 5, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Report: Runoff damages coastlines 
. States ask for federal help as fertilizers threaten marine life 
Associated Press 
WAS 11 INGTON 

Fish and othnr marine lif'e 1H1' !wing killed and marsh­lands damaged in more than a lhird of' tlw nalion's coastal ar1•as f'rom alga.n blooms Nitrogen C/\LISl!d by 
Pollution

the runoff ol' nxcPss nutri-Sources Pills, the 
N a L i u n a I . synthetic J\ "ad nm y oI' fertilizers Sl'ic•ncPs '.said . animal waste 
Tmisdav. 
. wastewater

Tlw sc·i.-n­
Lisls conclml­. fossil fuels c,cl that lh1• problc~m of' coastal pollution f'rnm nitrog,rn and p!Josphon1s fortilizc•rs is so scvPn! and widcisprnad that stal!ls rc1quirn l'odrral help. Thr nutrients ol'l1!n travnl hun­d rnds of 111i!Ps along riv1:rs bP!'on· tlwy crcaLP rwobkms. 
.. Conclilions in many coastal art!as are Pxpectnd to worsen unlPss action is tak11n now to reduce nutri(mt polluLion," said Hubert Ilowarlh, a professor of Prology and environmental biology at Cornell UnivNsity, and tlrn pand's chairman. 
\Vhil1~ nitrog(•n and phospho­rous occur in nature and are critiral to support plant lifo in marinn PnvironmPnts. too m111'11 or tlw nu Lrion Ls 1:ausos an nxcessive growth of phyto­plankton and other organisms. which deprive fish and other marine life, including plants. ol' oxygen. That causes marine lifo to din or be driven away. 
/\lgae blooms caused by an overabundance of nutrients ­spccilically, excessive nitrogen from agricultural fortilizcrs or poultry waste -have been linknd to a decline of fisheriHs, thl' death of manatees along the Florida coast. and the loss of coral rent's and sea grasses, tht! panel said. 
Algan blooms have btrnn blam,~d for years for thP so­called dead zone in the Gulf of Mnxico along the Louisiana and Texas coast. Large amounts ol' nutrients !lowing !'mm the Farm Belt into and down the Mississippi River hav1! caused tho massive dead zotrn -the size of New Jersey -each spring in the Gulf of Mexico. Scientists c•stimated the amount of nitrogen pouring from thP river into the Gulf has triplnd. and the amount of phosphorous doubled, in the past 40 years. 
Algae blooms also have been linkPd to a microbial called pfi­nstnria that has killed fish in tributaries of the Chesapeake Bay and off the Carolinas. 
But the rnport by the Acadt)tny's National Research Council said that nitrogen and phosphorous pollution is caus­ing environmental damage along almost all of the nation's (•stuarins, with severe proh­lt1ms idnnlified in 44 of the 139 coastal arnas examined. 
"Excess nitrogen in our coastal waters starts a danger­ous chain of ecological evl'nts that is exacerbating harmful algae blooms such as red tides, contaminating shellfish, killing coastal wildlife, reducing biodi­versity, destroying sea grass and contributing to a host of other environmental prob­lnms," warnrd Howarth. 
Because rivers often trans­port chemical nutrients hun­dreds of 'miles from inland farmland and urban cent~rs, the most s11vore problem ureas, according to the report. are wherl' rivers and bays feed water into the ocean. 
Severn problem areas, where there worn symptoms of low oxygen levels, toxic algae blooms and loss of submerged aquatic vegetation, were found along the coasts of nine states: Washington, California, Louisiana, Texas, Florida, North Carolina, Maryland, New York and Massachusetts. 
The most severe problems wer·e reported in the mid­Atlantic states and the Gull' of Mexico. the report said. 
Worldwide, human activity -from exCfissive use of fertil­izers to the burning of fossil fuels -have caused the amount of nitrogen in the envi­ronment to more than double since the 1960s. The wide use of synthetic fertilizers account for much of the growth, but other sources are animal waste, including chicken and hog manure, discharges from wastewater treatment plants and the burning of fossil fuels. 


Holtz marches against Confederate flag 
Associated Press 

WELLS, S.C. 
Two of col1ege football's best-known coaches marched Tuesday to say the Confederate flag should be lowered 
f r O m S o u t h C a r o ­I i n a · s S t a t e ­house. 
South Carolina 


c o a c  h  Holtz  
Lou Holtz  
a  n  d  
Clemson  coach  Tommy  

Bowden joined part of a 120-mile march that began Sunday in Charleston. It is scheduled to end Thursday in Columbia at the Statehouse, where pro-flag groups also plan a midday demonstration. 
Holtz and Bowden were joined by South Carolina basketball coach Eddie Fogler and Clemson basket­ball coach Larry Shyatt. All four men are white. 
"The university has come out real strong against the flag," Bowden said. "We're just here to show that sup­port." 
Those who want the flag lowered say it represents hate and slavery. Those who want to keep it flying say it stands for Southern heritage and honors Confederate sol­diers who died in the Civil War. 
"I felt it was important to be here. It's just one person expressing one opinion that the flag needs to come down," Fogler said. 
The Legislature, which raised the flag in 1962 to commemorate the Civil War centennial. then in 1995 gave itself the sole power to lower it, has not been able to compromise on what to do with the banner. 
"We're trying to do our part to get their attention," said Fogler, who was one of' the first coaches to speak out against the flag in January, the same month the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People started a tourism boycott of South Carolina. 
Charleston Mayor Joseph RIiey Jr., who organized the "Got in Step" march, walked with Holtz. 
"I had goose bumps" Riley said. "He's a thoughtful man. He told me, it's impor­tant to do what's right and this is what's right for South Carolina." 
Holtz marched for about a half-hour as the group made its way up U.S. 176 through Orangeburg County. The other coaches marched for about an hour. 






VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, April 5, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. llox Q. Notre 0;1me. IN 4o5% 024 Sourh Oining Hall. Norre Dame. IN 465% 
EOITOR IN CHIEF 
~.fike Cunno!lv 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Nore,•n Cille.spie Tim Lane 

Assr. MAI\AGJNG EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGE!l Tim Logan Brian Kessler 
NEWS EmTOll: Anne Marie 1'1atingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lib Haughey SPORTS EDITOR! Kerry Smith SCl'Nf EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lmg 

AL>VERTISING MANAGER: l\u Peters Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chis Avih SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WF.o ADM!NlSTRATOR: Adam Turner 
GRArHIC,S EDITOR: Jose Cudlar 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNFO.............631-7471 FAX....................................................... ...6.31-6927 ADVERTISING .................................631-6900/1!840 
obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu EoITOi! IN CHIEF....................................... 63 l-4'i42 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME. ..................6.31-4 541 BUSINESS OfFJCE.. .....................................63 1-531.l NEWS.........................................................631-5323 ob.servcr.obsnews. l@nJ.cJu 
VIEWPOINT.............. ,..................................631-5303 observcr.vicwpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................6.11-4 543 
observer.sporrs.1@nd.edu  
SCENE............ , ..  ..  ......................6.'l 1-4540  
observer.scene. l@nJ.edu  
SAINT MARY'S.......  ........................... 631-4324  
observer.smc. l@nd.edu  

PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................63 J-88.'\9 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Vi.~it our Web site ar http://obse111er.11d.ed11 for daily updares ofcampus news, sports. features anJ opinion columns, as well as cartoons. reviews anJ breaking news from che A.ssociared Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-ro-rhc 
weekly smJenr reviews
minute forecasrs 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus covcrnge 
and rates ofprint ads 
about The Observer
archives w search for 
to meet rhc ed irors md
articles published afrer 
August 1 9')9 
Staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, d,1ily newspaper published in print and online by the studems of the University ofNorre Dame du Lie and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrem, including advercisemenrs, is nor governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither insritmion. The Obsef\'er reserves the right rn refuse advenisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accur.itdy and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opimon of the m.11oriry ofrhe Ediror in Chier: Managing Editor, A.ssisr,mt M,11,ging Edirm and depanmenr editors, Commenraries, letters and columns present che views ofthe amhors a11d not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is av:1ihble ro all readers. The free expres.sion ofafl opinions through lencrs is encouraged. Leners rn the Editor mmr be signed and must include comact infornution. 
Qumiom Tel(lltdlll[!. Obsaver polici,·s ,houfd be Jira1­rd to Editor i,i ChiefMike Connolly. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Making a difference with student support 
First and l'orr.most. wn would like to extend our I.hanks and gratitude to Michael Palumbo, Micah Murphy and Lim entire 1999-2000 Ofnce of' tho President. staff for all of thr.ir hard work, dotenninatinn and many accomplishments. Miclurnl, Micah and the Ol'licn staff ha('e set a precndent of excollence that we can only hopf' to duplicate. 
We would also like lo thank Lim sludcnls of the Universily of Notre Dame for supporting our campaign and granting us the opportunity to serve this University that we all hold so closely to our hearts. We are your chosen rnprnsentatives, but it is only with you that we can work toward making Notre Dame a better place. 
Our hope and goal is to make life a little easior for every Notre Dame student. lt is our philosophy that the Officn of the President exists to listen, to address and to advocaln the needs of the student body. We believe that the Student Union can make a difforcncc in lhe 1wcryday life of each Notre Dame student, and it will be our mission to turn this btilir,f into reality. 
We have only two favors to ask of the student body. We need all Not.re Dame students to voice their concf'rns to us and the Office of the Prcsidnnt staff. The doors to our office will always ht~ op1m and wo am ready and willing to list<)n to your thoughLs and problmns. 

Also, we ask you to havn confidence in our ability to devel­op a solution to our collective student problems. Tho Notre Dame family prides itself' upon its togetherness. A problem that affects one stud,111t. affects us all. Knowing that the stu­dent body has confidencn in our ability lo affect positive change for this campus will encourage, enliven and inspirn our Oflico. 
We work guided by a philosophy of only one word ­"Believe." We brdieve in the Notre Dame student body -the amazing people that they are and the great things that they are going to do. Fatlrnr Sorin believed the University of Notre Dame would "become a force for good in this country." The Student Union can and will reflect the mission of our founder during this administration. 
Brian O'Donoghue Student Body President Brooke Norton Srudenc Body Vice President i\pril 4. 2000 


Napster has no legitimate use 
In Peter Godlewski's h!tter regarding Napstcr, he claims that '.\lapster is not illegal. This is true -owning and run­ning the I\Japster software is indeed not illegal. currr.ntly. The purpose of Napster. however, is indeed illegal. 
I am no fan of HIAA or like organizations that try to stifle competition and innovation. llowever. 1must agree that under current law, trading MP3 files is illegal. This is Napster's purpose -to trade MP3 files. 
Some might argue that trading MP3 tiles is just like trad­ing copies on cassette tape, claiming that's not illci­gal. but it is. The ()Wner of an album is allow1\d to make copies l"or his own use, not !'or distri­bution to others. This is illegal. 
As for the security issue, I would sug­gest that anyone arguing that using Napster does not present any security 
issues pnruse www.rootshcll.org to see how hackers have abused other "benign" programs. 
Finally, Mr. Goldewski makes some interesting points regarding bandwidth. Contrary to popular opinion, bandwidth docs not grow on trees, and cannot bP deployed with great ease. Signiliganl band­width(T3,OC-3,OC-12) costs upwards of $50,000 a month for a T3(45Mbs), and OC-:-3 is about fivn times as expensive. That is a lot of money. 
The· University docs not maintain a 
I\ 
nntwork f'or leisure activities, il exists to support legitmato academic endeav­ors, and if you can usn it to have fun, line. But don't get in the way of those that really need it. 
Unfourtunately. I givc the impn,ssion of being 011 the side of "the man." but really I feel that some reality needs to be injected with Mr. Go\dcwski's r,omments. Naptstcr has no legitimate usn and does pose somn security concerns. The Cnivr•rsity, being a privat!! institution, has every right to block its use to provide network capacity to those who really need it. 
Jim Regovich Classof'97 Apri I 1. 2000 

In his letter. Petnr Godlewski complained about the University cutting ofT his access to Napster and other pro­grams that allow pnople to steal intellectual property at will. llad he bolhnrecl to read the wholn messagP the University sent out, he would have seen this for himsc1lf'. Even granting that Napster docsn't pose a sm:urity risk to the network, the otlwr deleterious effects it has WPrn more than enough lo justify banning it. 
Godlewski complained that tho Univcn,'ity can afford to expand its bandwidth capacity, so banning Napsl!1r on that ground made no sensP. Let's see. what should Notre Dame do 'Nilh its rnsourccs: buy more bandwidth so that Napster use ( for which I SPP no lc1giti­
mate usn) drops to. say. 10 pen·nnt of capacity, or ban it outright'? That's a hard call. You can't hmwstly nxpect NotrP Dame lo subsidiw copyright infringonH!nt. 
Codlewski opined that Napst<'r (that single most useful program f'or collego students) is not ille­g-al. Strictly speaking-. that"s 
true. NPither is a beer. by itsplf'. It's WIIAT YOU no WITII IT that matters. Copying music 

files without p,mnission of' tlw copyright holder is simply not legal. When you buy a CD, you buy the rights to 1wrsonally enjoy that copy or it. You do NOT g<'t to 
do whatevnr you want with it. Tim point is, you don't own lhn 
J 
music and so you don·1 have a right to trade it. copy it and etc. !laving-never used Napster, I can't tell you what otlwr uses it may have. I can tell you that 40 p<'IT<'nt 
ol' the bandwidth g11tting sucked up by its us,,. wlwn it has no obviously legal use, is an easy and 1r,gitimatn target for University action. 
Those of us who use tlrn network for legitimate reasons should not havn to wait for our information to sqtu,ezP through thn Napster traffic. 
Neil Dube Law Student April 4, 2000 

DILBERT 

LLY'5 CLAIM 
HERE WE GO ... DOE5 
ABILITY WIL 
OH, YEAH ...COME HE EVER 
TO ASOK ... GO, MOVE? 
BABY, GO! 
SCOTT ADAMS 
IT LOOKS THAT WAY 
WHEN I 
JIGGLE THE 
CAMERA. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Not every man is so great a coward as he thinks he is -nor yet so good a Christian." 
Robert Louis Stevenson author 
--------------------· -----­




VIEWPOINT 


Wednesday, April 5, 2000 OBSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Community responds to alleged rape incident 

More education needed about acquaintance rape 
lmagirn• my suprisP 1.vlrnn I pick1id up tlw Observ1!r yeslerday (Monday. /\pril :1) and saw tlw artirk on the front pagn: "ND l'olin•: Woman rnporLPd rapP in dorm." 
Whilr. rapes and scixual assaults havr. always occurrnd on the nunpt1s1•s or NolrP Damn, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross, they am ll<'\'Pr talkc·d about -much loss printnd in the paper. This is a disturbing foaturn on our campuses -we as wonwn am never infornwd wlwn assaults or.cur. and so sadly. tlrnrP arP women walking around with a falsP s1rnsP ol'salP-ly. 
Tlwn• an• sludPnts who think that rapn and s1ixwll assault are just dirty words -and things that happm1 at other schools. VVnll. I hat,, to bf' tllf' om• to shatlPr pvnryone's bubble, but they do happPn lwrn. /\nd tlrny occ:ur more often lhan anyorni would likl' lo bt•li1'VP or admil. 
Ask yllur l'riPncls -I b1,l more• than a fow of' thc,m know a vic­tim or"a sox crinw. Or maybe tlwy'n• a victim Ornmsclvns. /\nording lo llw U.S. Dcp.arlmcn·t of Justice. 1 in 4 women will bP a victim or rap<' or allcmptcd rape by the time they arc in tlrnir mid-twenties. /\lso, womPn in their late te,rns are throe and a half timcis mon\ likely to be a victim of a sex crime than thc'rnst ol" llw gc•ncral population. 
Whal dol's this m1ian" Tlw women on those three campuses arc• thus<' most likdy to b1\ at risk. and we are not nvcn being inl'ormcd or this risk and that lhesn things do occur. 
My lwart goPs out to the viclip1 of this most rncnnt rape. Her pain and confusion is probably at an all-limn high right now ­alkr all. somnonc slw knew and probably trustPd violated her in thn most t!xtrcmc wav. Iler situation is not uncommon ­according to thn U.S. D<;partm•\nt of' Justice, 68 percent of rape vktims know their assailanl. 
I rnsp1\ct her decision not to press chargns, and would chal­lm1gc anyone who is criticizing her for this choice to imagine how t!wy would f<'<'I if'lhis had happened to them. I also under­stand that all tlw dnpartmcnts involvP<l with this al Notrn Damn 11n• 1mabln lo 11n•s;; dmrgcis against thn assailant, and that no artion can lw lakcm against him. · 
Firn\, l"m not going lo argtw that point. I do belicwc that some­thing can lw lC'anwd from this ll\rrible cwcnt. You are morP likn­ly lo be• rapcid by sorncmw you know than by th<' scary guy you s1'f' walking down llw strcPt. 
l11st<'ad of rnwring this irn·idtmt up. '.\Jotrc Dame, Saint Mary's and !Inly Cross ('all take this opportunity to educate m(•mbers or tlwir n•spnctivl' communiticis, nwn and womf'n alike. about rape -Pspnc:ially aquaintanco rape. Maybe l'ulurn assaults can be pn\v1rnwd. Women ran learn to assert thnms1~lves. and men can und•irstand that "No" dons indnncl mnan "No" -wc'ro not play­ing hard to gPt. 
l·'inally, to lhP rape victim. l.ast year. I \\ as a victim of a sex rrinrn when a rncmlwr or tlrn Notre~ Dame cmnmunit.y sexually assaultnd nw. l'lnasn rPm1~mlmr -iL's okay lo bC' angry, scarnrl and c:onl't1scd. Drni'l bn afraid to ask for lwlp. Talk to fricmds ­tPII them what you'rp going through. how you're 1'1icling -they will lw a hug" sourcc1 of' support. Don'l lct anyone LPII you that you should "bn ovnr it by now." 
f\pcm·nring from sornnthing likP this is a donply personal issue -you will fci>I lrnttnr when you am ready to f1wl safe again. Always ri>mcmbcr that it was not your l'ault. Nothing you did. said or wnrn wearing gave anyone the right to rape you. IT WAS NOT YOUR FA.ULT-and don't let anyone Lei! you it was. 
HP1111\mbrer that you am not alon11 nc'iw, and you don't have to go through this on your own. lkach out l'or help. and someone 
will bP theni to tak1• your hand ­ sonrnonc was l.lmrc to take  
min<'.  
Anonymous  
Junim  
Saint Mary's College  
April 3, 2000  


Student Affairs must take actiori 
Somo pt'ople may call me a rritic, but I am also a student at lhis University. As such. I have a responsibility to this sehool likr I have to any other institution for which I am a part -com­munity, church. family. There are many rnspo11­siblities one owes to hPrsell1/himself and otrn's respeelive environment, all of which arc <lis­tu rbPd by the rape of a Notre Dame studP.nt by an "acquaintance." 
I will not lrnal this situation like anything other lhan what it is -a tragedy. f cannot brgin to express my sympathy for the victim who undoubtedly feels horribly violated, not just for the way she was trea l<~d, hut also for the betray­al by a supposed frirmd. 
As atrocious as such a crime remains no mat­ter whore it occurs. it is only more tragic in an environment that we strive to call "home." No IPss tragic, however. is the travesty with whir.h such a crime is ignornd. I respect the victim's feelings -there is no cloubl a reason for her silence which I only hope will heal. Hut "if' the incident involved a violation of school policy ... Student Affairs would be informed." 
Explain lO me, Student Affairs, what exactly is impeding you from inquiring into the matter fur­ther when you have leveled charges against vio­lations that would inarguably be considered less scvrire than rape, even at the n1quest of the vic­tim? How many more rapes must go unreported until one finds its way into the headlines? What makes Campus Security think our campus is "secure" simply because this rapist was an acquaintance? 
I'm not writing to ostracize the rapist, but if he can justify raping a friend, how much safer would a stranger be around such a person? The victim does not want to press charges, but tell me where Notre Dame's rcsponsibilty applies? 

Must we lirst quantify our concern based only on the number of reported crimes that are. themselves, inherently unacceptable? Notre Dame owes more than that to its values, tradi­tion, and especially its students. We need to expect more from a University that has definitely bnen held to a higher standard for over a centu­ry. 
Most importantly, we all owe it to humanity to be intolerant to such acts that scandalize our home. Don't let this tragedy becomn another "statistic" that Campus Security must reluctantly rC'port in accordance with some "act." l urge us all to take action simply because we arc acting in accordam:e with our responsibility as stu­dents, residents and human beings. It's that sim­ple. 
Do more. Oflke of Student Affairs; not in spite of what you might call "policy," but because of this tragedy; not just for the sake of moral con­sistency, but for the holistic integrity of this campus that has been savagely compromised by the atrocious actions of an undoubtedly greater number. If not, then we continue to be victims of inaction. 
We begin to be those very pundits who care more about maintaining a clean reputation for Notre Dame than confronting injustice. Demand more, students, not just because you are offend­ed by this tragedy, but because the subsequent inaction hurts our community, too. This is your home. 
Miguel Vieyra Freshman Knon Hall April 4, 2000 



Legal measures should be pursued in rape cases 
I am writing regarding the rape that occurred on campus on March 25. I am a 1998 graduate of Saint Mary's and now work as a victim advo­cate for victims of domestic violence. 
I am very disturbed that a student can rape or allegedly rape another student without anyone knowing his name. Unfortunately, the key to his identity lies in the hands of tlrn victim. No one can ever know what the victim has suffernd, but as a victim advocate l have an understanding of the suffering victims go through. 
Whoever the vir.­tim is. I hope you are reading this. Often the victim feels shame. but vou shouldn't. You have done nothing •Nrong, yllu just happened to be\ in the wrong place at the wrong time. That is not a crime, and lw should be ashamed. not you. 
I r<'alize that this is a hard time for you, but ynu should not let thi.s per­son get away with this heinous crime. I am sure thal you do not want anyone else to suffer the way you are suffering right now. The only way to help ensure that this person does not rape someone else is to pursue criminal chargns. 
You mav feel that this will he too hard to do at this point: but you really should for your sake 

and for the sake of any other women with whom 
this alleged rapist may have contact in the 
future. It is natural to be scared and just want to 
forget about the whole incident, but criminal 
charges must be pursued. There are services to help you in the commu­nity. I hope that you are already work­ing with the University's counsel­ing services. You do not have to deal with this crime alone. If you press charges, you will have a victim advocate from Sex Offense Services help you through the criminal justice sys­tem and you will remain anony­
mous. 
l know from my experience that women often feel like they are 
" being re-victim­
ized when they go 
through the sys­tem, but they also know that this must 
be done. Please con­sider pressing crimi­nal charges for your sake. Feel free to contact me at Hachae!Anna@ hotmail.com. 
Rachael Sederberg 
Sainr Mary·s College Class of '98 April 4. 2000 



page l 2 Wednesday, April 5, 2000 
Articles that (alas) never will be 

!Jr,re ar<• a bunch of titlPs that will n<'ver havf~ articles lo gu along ,vith thPrn. Some of them have ..L l"<'V\' sentences aftpr tlwm becausP I started writing the artidn, b"ut then got stuck: 
No prayer in school 
Even though Notre Danw is a Catholic srhool, 1 would like to proposl' that we bun praytcr on c.ampus. First of all, not fWeryo1w on campus is religious. and sernnd or all. campus is still in Anwrica. which is a public placr,. 
Trick or treat 
If vou think about it. nvt~rv dav is II al 1·owP (' n . You n<' vf\ r know· w h ;> is going to snap n1'xt. EV('l'Y tirnn sonwone puts out their band to gn•11t you. is it a trick .. is ii a tn•at'' 
The dirt bike college 
As Car as I can tell. Notre• Dame' is rnally rich. 11· w11 wantnd. wn rould hav<• pPopln d10p down all tlw lre11s. ship in dirl and rnvn tlw who!(• campus. ThPn. wn could all gPl dirl biktes and ridP around on tlwm. WP could covN up sonw of tlw buildings and tlwy would b(' giant jumps. :\nd in LhP \VintPr. we' would have\ some wickc:d snow­boarding jumps. 
Dad and his hoes 
My dad is SouthPrn, and he always talks about how much lw lovPd his hoPs. 111' got thn ho('S when lw was 1 S vears old. Ile us1~d lo rid,• it anvwhere !Jp could. But whnn he was 17. his mom made~ hir;i keep'm in thP barn tH!Xl door. HP lovr.d going over late at night and tPaching'm new tricks. !IP usPd lo love to l'Ped'm applr.s and pPt tlw long black hair. It wasn't always Pasy lo clean up. but it was worth it. It's sad though that Butt.Prrnilk got rnbi1!S and dind whPn lw was f'Dur. 
Breakfast cereal killers 
Tlwrt' arc· so manv diffrn,nt characlc'rs on c1'rPal boxPs. It makPs mP •.vondC't' if onP is strongPr limn all thn otlwrs. or C'.OUJ"Sl'. SOill(' or Llwm would haV(' to stic·k togPtlwr ii' WP would havP a big brawl -for l'Xamplr, tlw HirP Krispi1• bovs and the Cinnamon Toast Crunrh Cooks. And who is W(J!Pr. thn GoldPn Crisp Bear or thn llonny Smacks Frog'? Who is crazier. tlw Koo Koo bird or thr Trix Babbit'? .lust hcrn far arP tlwy willing Lo go !"or lh<\ir delicious ccn'als'! Would tlwy kill'' 
Polls and poles, oh boy! 
Dorm polls are ok, but th<'r<! am lots or lwtler kinds of polls. Like TotPm poles and 
Ricky Martin, Ricky lake 
It surP is amazinl{ how people• with the sanrn name ran be so difforenl. 
Snorkels all the time 
In tlw future. tlwre probably won't bP a lot of air IPft. I imagine that pPopll'. will have to wear snorkl:ls ... /\II thP lime. 
Grab the slab 
Tlwrn is no nwat on Fridays, and something isn't quilt' right about that. I understand that the Univt)rsity is Catholk. but thP Univ,~rsity doPsn't f\at. Isn't the who!<: point that W(' am suppos1~d to lH' strong-enough to s,iy. "No. I will not cat that nrnat.'" WHIL if it's not them at all, Wt' arf'n 't ronsciously making a sac:rificP. Psprwially sincP al this tir1w most of us havn usrd up most of our flex points and BK and HPckPrs aren't an option 
But l ho1wstlv don't rr:,dlv care. lt must lw nice ror the nwat (·arvPrs t(J get a day oh i\lso. mr•at comPs from dnad animals. And tlw rnor<' animals that arP aliVl', the happi(\l' thn world will bt•. 
How did they get away with that? 
'i'hrre ar<' a fow things in lil'n that I will nPvf'r undnr­stand. Among thosp things art! how in thn world did tlw TV show "Grovving Pains" r,vr,r get away with having onn ol' tlwir ch,tractnrs named "Boner." 
The oieu·s expressed in this column are t.ho:;e uf the author and not necessarily those of The O/J.'lerl'er. 



By MEG REYNDERS 
Su:nc 'Xi'rirer 
In thP 1960s, a convPnl was built on tlw PdgP or Notre• llamP campus to housl' the Sisters of tlw Holy Cross who w<•rn grad­uate studf'nls at tlw .Uniwrsity. Lnwis Ilall SPrvnd as a c:onvPnt f"or thci nuns and their nrnagcr b1dongings. Yd. tlw introduc­tion of ff'ma!P undcrgraduatns to NotrP Damn in 1972 brought about a 1wod for incrPascd housing. Lewis Ilall was shortly 11HTc1aftcr transformed into a fr.male dormitory. The home of Jl('arly 300 undergraduate wonwn. Lnwis. as people know it today, is a far r,ry from the LPwis or thn SistPrs of thn I Ioly Cross. 
Many p0oplc on campus !'ail lo make their way to L0wis, mainly b11t:ause tlwy arn unsure ol' Pxactly wlwre it is. When askod about I.nwis' loc:ation, freshman rosidnnt lirances lkvlin notPd. "No otlwr campus has a building housing :100 girls that '.iO perc<1nt or thP mak stu­dc1nL body can't !iud." 
In rpality. th1•rc arP many advantagos to L!iwis' placnmnnl on campus. Situat(\d on SL JusPph's LakP. the L1·wis Chicknns am ablo to enjoy a vinw of campus which most dorms am not afforded. BPsidents find Llwmsclvcs dose to tho Grotto. the Basilica, the llralth Center. North Dining I !all, St. Michael's Laundry and the /\dministration Building (a lwlpful landmark when making ono·s way back to the dorm after a long night). Duo to its location behind the Administration Building, it is said that Lewis llall is thn only 

rPsidl•ncc! hall on campus on which Mary can alTord to turn lwr back. 
YPt. it is not just a long walk lhal separates I.Pwis from otlwr residence halls on campus. Lewis has bcwn llw proud recip­ient of' Lim "llall ol' tlw Yr.ar" award twice in thr. past !'our years. It is rr,cognizr>d as a dorm built on enthusiasm, ath­letic talent. leadership, gen­erosity and a snnsn of dorm unity that is unsurpassed by that of other residence halls. 
While many dorms on cam­pus compare themselves to l'nt­ternilir.s or sororities, most of the Lewis Chickens sec lh11ir dorm as a home\. The l'amily­li h clement is what makes Lewis I !all such a spndal place. 
"l'vn never had a sister beforn. It was kinda neat to come to collf!!-{r. and find 300 of them," said frnshman KatiP 
l.ogisz. 

Br.th Willkom, a sophornorn, t.o11ch!'d on this sanw idPa. "So1rn·times vvhon I am rl'lurn­ing to school from breaks I tell my mom that I am going honw. Co.sh, somrtinrns that onP doesn't go over too wt1II. but it's so true!" 
Sistnr Annntt<• Coorgr, tlw rnctor of Lewis Ila!!, agrcod. Shl1 noted Ow !"act that Lewis is not locatn<l on a quad with its social space. This provides Lewisitcs with opportunities to bond with one another and to grow togetlrnr as a community. Lewis' Hall Staff makes much or this unity possibk as wdl. play­ing an active role in the livns of tlrn residents. 
Lowis' residents definitely do not play a passivo role on cam­pus. Bather, they make their prescnre known in many diff<'r­nnl artivitiPs -on tlw playing fi('lds, in studPnt g-ovPrnmnnl, doing sPrvic·p work, partiripat­ing in rampus lilurgiPs and playing in tlw band. to name a f"ew. "lt"s all about tlw poultry powPr," said Kati<' Logisz. 
Most recently. thn Chicks W<'r<\ busy with <wPnts !'or Camp LPwis \VPPk, Lewis' spirit week leading up to tlw wPll-known Lewis Crush Danr,•. ThPse activitins, and many of the events sponsored by l.nwis, arc made possible by the collabora­tive effort between a strong hall council and a supportivf: hall staff. Co-presidents Jpn Caswnll and Lisa Maier attributed much of Lewis' success this year to the parliripation of the fresh­man c.lass. "Lewis had more' f"reshmr,n than any other hall this yPar and their enthusiasm and involvement really hnlprd with nverything wP wPre able to do as a dorm," thn co-presi­dPnts said. 
/\notlwr uniqun asprr·t or Lewis is the strong sense of faith that permeates the dorm. Lnwis' weekly mass is one· of thn most popular on campus. lt serves as yot anotlwr opportu­nity !"or Lewisil<\S to come togetlrnr and to grow furtlrnr as a community. 
Lewis is a spcc-ial place\ to many Notrn Dame students. both past and pn'sPnt. It is not unusual l'or alumni to return "homo" lo Lewis to reminisce about the days when they played intnrhall sports together, sat in tho hallways talking till all hours of the night or cele­brated mass togPther. Devlin put it best when she said, "I can't evor imagine loaving Lewis. That's why I don't think I evPr will ... EVER" 


T E L I 0 N 
Wednesday, April 5, 2000 page 13 
TELEVISION REVIEW 
'Wonderland' is a compelling addition to ABC 
By MATT NANIA 
~i..cnc Wun.·r 
l' r P m i<' r in g las t T h u r s d a y a t 1 0 
p.m .. ABC's gritty "Wnndnrland" is a \l'l'lrom,• addition Lo an otherwise lacklust<·r sPason ol' ttdnvision. ThP 0111'-hour drama tukPs plan' in Hivt•rvul' llospital, a µsyrliialri(' and Pl11Pr){Pn1·y ward in I\P1, Yl)rk Cit\. 
"\\'o nd l'r Ian rf. .. 
\\'hi r h has b1' (' n "Wonderland" highly LoutPd by its llf'twork. has 
dir1•rt11r 111· th(' ri rs t P pis o d ( • .. I l also r·omPs \.\·ith a rair amount or ('.on­lrm·1•rs~ atlarh1'd . .-\ nurnbn of orga­nizations lrnvP proLPstPCI lhP show's d1•pirtion ol' nwnlal illrwss. saying it ('lllph,tsizPs liw violPnl and rPinfon-<·s 1wgativP sl1'rP11ty1ws. But BPrg ilast SPPn 011 "Chicago llop(•") and his writ­Prs claim tlw~ s1w11t months rPSP.tr('h­i ng rPa I -Ii rl' psyr hiat risl s and l lwi r p,ttiPnls at similar institutions. 
Shot in cloru1111•ntar~· st~·i<' and using lhat slrnkv-1·.anwra r,,pl rrom "NYPD lllu<' ... "\\1;111dPrland" is indPPci a cross !)('tm·Pn "!'\YPD Blu<'·· and its lwacl-to­lwad 1·omJ)('litor "t•:H ... Shot on lo('a­t ion in :\1'11 Y111·k City. tl11· s1·ri('S cklws into tin• liv1•s of both thc stall and Lill' patil'nts tlw~-lwlp. 
Thi· cast is oulslancling. Tlw l'irsl Ppis11dP al111w r11ntai1wd somP or th1' [}('st aning in r1•<'Plll m1•mory. Tl'd l.t•vint' i"ll1•at," "Sill'llC<' ol' Lh1· Lambs'"). as llw lwad t'orPnsic psyl'hi­atrisL. ('flnvincingly ronv,,ys a man both dPPply involvPd \\'ith his pati1'nts as WP[[ as struggling lll maintain <·us­tod\' ovr'r his two young sons. i111artin llonovan ("ThP Opposite· of' s,,x") is convinl'ing as Dr. NPil llarrison. a psy('hiatrist who dPals with paliPnls who hav,, rDmmill<\d rrinws. 
Tlw s1•riPs als() stars Billy Burk<'. a young. g-ood-looking psychiatrist 1--vho is, of course. the show's commitment­dramas like "The Practice," "Third phobic brooding guy -a rolo bettnr Walch" and "Once and Again," playPd by Gcor~". Cl,'.wn<\~ during his '''v\'ond<'rland" is daring and inventive. rarly y(iars on LR. Serrns regulars This is potent material to play with, 
b1·1·n adv<•rtisPd Thursdays at 10 p.m. on ABC i .. Ka I i J' ­as tlw lwsl al!l·r­
o r n i a 11 ,LI iY!' !() .. !·,IL .. 
"Swimming
Starring: Ted Levine, Martin

whtch it l'arl's on 
W i t h a m•r•kl~· hasis Donovan, Michelle Forbes, Sharks")lt ·.., gol an 
µlays Dr.
Billy Burke, Michael Jai White

intPn·sting· 1wdi­I. y I a gr1•1•. with show and Joelle Carter. 
c; a I' r i t y ' rrPator llarrison's llPrg s1• rving as pr<'gnantboth \\TitPr and Writer/Director: Peter Berg 
girHriPnd 
Mi('hal'I .lai White ("Tyson." "Spawn"), a young trauma spf'­<'ialist. and Joelle Carter, the intern. did not mako an apprar­an('(~ in tlw l'irst 1\pisodP -a !'act indil'ating just.what kinds of risks th<' sorins is willing to 
Lak(i. 
MirhPl[P Forbes 
who hPacls 
up th<' 1-riti­('al n·spons1• facility. In this l'irst npisodP. hPr chara<·tpr goPs through quit,, a lot. Al't<•r acci­c!Pntally turning away a µatiPnt (an inl<•nsP 1.Pland Ors!'r from "\'pry Bad Things"!. slw is sur­pris('([ to find tlw sanw paliPnt back in th1• hospital ward aftnr going on a murdr\rous rampagP. shooting riv<' 1wop!P. WhPn thP paliPnL starts stabbing himsnl!' with a ).{iant hypodPrmir rn~ndlc. Lyla tri!'s to slop him. Aftrr <'nd­ing up on thr> rloor unclrr thP insan<' patiPnt and a handful of ('Ops, slw is shockr,d lo !'ind tlw hypod<'rmir nt'Pdln burif'd in her prq{n,rnl bPlly. Tlw baby suffPrs cr.u1ial damag<' and both NPil nnd I .yla must dPcidP on wlwther to abol'l LhP pr<'gnancy. 
This is just one f'xamplr or what is sun· to b,, an intens<', dis­turbing drama. In "Wond1!rland," 
howev<'r. thPrc's actual rompas­sion lurking in thf' madness. The sn·n<'s bl'tWPPil LPvinr and his sons ar<' touching. as are his dis­nrssions with his divorct'd wifo. Add in S<'VPral moving SCf\IH)S bntwPnn doctor and patiRnt and you'vn got 01w rPmarkablP show. 
Cornpar<'d to cli('h<;·riddr•n T\' 

and if the show can take an honest look at the fragile hold society has on that which they say is "normal," tlrnn it has got a great life ahead of it. 

ABC's new series, "Wonderland," examines the lives of doctors in a New York hospi­tal. The show stars (from the left) Billy Burke, Ted Levine, Michael Jai White, Joelle Carter, Michelle Forbes and Martin Donovan. Though competing with the popular "ER," "Wonderland" promises a solid show that delivers great acting. 
NIELSEN RATINGS 
k of Mar. 2 7-Apr. 02 


Show Rating Total Viewers 
1. 
Who Wants to be a Millionaire 19.4 19.6 million 

2. 
Who Wants to be a Millionaire 18.8 18.9 million 3, Who Wants to be a Millionaire 16.6 16. 7 million 


4. The Practice 13.9 14.0 million 5. 60 Minutes 12.8 12.9 million 
6. Touched by an Angel 11. 9 12.0 million 7. Friends 11. 3 11.4 million 
8. Law and Order 10.7 10.8 million 9. Daddio 10.6 10. 7 million 
10. Dharma and Greg 10.5 10.6 million 
Source: Associated Press 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 5, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Hernandez takes Yankees to victory in West Coast opener 
Associated Press 
Hoger Cl1~mrns l'ouldri't do it l'or thr 1\J<'W York Yanknrn, Thr same g<ws !'or Andy Pettitt(: and David Conn. 
But Or!ando llrrirnndcz accomplished something no other Yankees pitchnr had been ab!P to do. H,~ won a sr.ason opener on tho West Coast. 
Drawing his first opPning-day a.ssignmPnt. Hnrn«nd,•1. µitdwrl lhP Yanhf's to a 3-2 vidorv Monday night owr thr /\nahci1i1 
/\ngnls. 
ThP Yankf'l's. trying to b,,comP the first tParn to win three straight championships sim:e tlrn 1972-74 Oakland /\thlPtics, won for tlw first linw in l'ive West Coast openers. 
ThP Yank11es might WP!I have lost another opmwr in these parts if I lernandez hadn't bf'f'n ablr to consistently baf'[fo Mo Vaughn. 
Tlw high-kicking right-handrr ended four innings by getting Vaughn out. threP times on strikeouts, Onn strik('ou t canw wilh the-bases loadPd in tlrn 
fifth. 
"They had the bases loaded and tlrnv didn't scorr." the Yankres·-Paul O'Neill said. "In my mind. tlrnt changed the entire game. That was a big momentum builder for us. 
"As a playcr. you see a pitrhr,r battle like that. vou w,tnt to kick it up yoursP-11' to get it donr.." 
O'Neill got it donP in the nPxt inning. hilting a two-run homer off Ken llill to put New York ahead to stav. 
Still. 0,-Neill said. "He (Hernandez! won it for us." 
Twins 6, Devil Rays 5 
David Ortiz singled home\ Cristian Guzman with two outs in the ninth inning Tuesday night, leading thr MinnPsota Twins to [J-5 com!,-l'rom-behind victory over th<' Tampa Bay Devil Rays. 
Minnesota stopped a nine­game losing streak that include a season-ending eight-game skid last vear. 
Jo.hn Flaherty homrred and tied his career high with !'ive RBIs for Tampa Bay. 
Todd Walker rcac!wd sncond 
with on<' out in tlw ninth on scc­on d baseman Migtwl Cairo's two-basl' Prror. tlwn scorrd thl' tying run on Cuzman's double off tlobrrto llNnandcz. Malt Lawton foulr'd out and Ortiz f'ol­lnwed with Urn winning hit. 
ll<'rnandr.z (0-1 l. who was 43 ol' 47 in savP-s last ye,ir. blew his first opportunity of the snason. llector Carrasco (1-0) got on(' out l'or Uw win. 
Flalwrtv hit a thri•c-run homer to put tl{l' llnvil Hnys nlwad in tlw sccond following 01w-out sin­g Ins by Grl'g Vaughn and IlcrbErt Prirry. then mad(' it S-2 with a two-run double in thn f'uurth. 
Vaughn. sig1wd as a l'nw ag0.nt during the otTseason, was 2-l'or­3 with u doublr. and two walks. 
Hyan Hupe! allowed three nms and six hil-: in six innings. 
Eric Milton allowed live runs and sewn hits in six innings and walkPd thnw. 
Minnesota clnsnd to :i-2 in the scroncl on two-out singles by Jacqu{~ Jones and Marcus JPnsen. and Torii IluntPr's two­run double. Jones. who vvcnt 3­f'or-4. udded llBI singl,~s in the fourth and the eighth. 
Red Sox 2, Mariners · 0 
PPdro Martinez started this season the same way hn ended last yPar -with pure domi­nance. 
Martinez struck out 11 and held Srattle to onlv two hits in seven sharp inni,;gs Tunsday night, pitching thn Boston Ilfid Sox past tlrn Mariners 2-0 in a season opener. 
Playing thnir first season with­out Ken Griffey Jr. since 1989, the Mariners could not touch Martinez. the unanimous AL Cv Young winner last season afte~ gning 23-4 with a 2.07 EHA and 313 strikeouts. 
A Safeco Stadium record crowd of 45,552 saw Martinez (1-0) giVP up a blnop single by Carlos Guillen in the third inning and a ground single by John Olerud in tlw fourth. 
Martinez walked the Mariners' main offensive threat. Alex Hodriguez. with two oul'i in the first and sixth. 
The Mariners did not lrnvn any other runners against Martinez. 
· lkn!k Low1· rnli!w11<l t.o start. t.hc eighth and complntnd thn combinml two-hitter. 
Rockies 5, Braves 3 
J<'ll Cirillo hit t.hrPr~ doublns. 
including a thnrn-run drivn in 
Urn sovnnth inning !.hat rallied 
the Colorndo Hor,ki<'s over I.he 
.\ll,rnta Braves 5-3 Tuesday 
night. 
.John Burkett, in rf'lirl' or Tom 
Clavint' and making his nrst 
appnarancP wil.h thn Bravris. 
managed to get only onn out 
beforn bPing lrnmmert>d by Lim 
Hocki11s in the sf'VPnth. 
Burkdt (0-l) gavn up one-out singl11s to pinch-hitter Aaron Ledmana and Tom Goodwin and _ a walk to Mike Lansing. loading the basns. Cirillo tlwn lined his 
doubln down the lirrn in lrft. 
Bobby Bonilla. subbing for an 
ailing Brian .Jordan. hit a two­
rnn homnr off Colorado starter 
Holando Arrojo in the fourth. 
Andrns Calarrnga. who honrn• 
rnd l\londay in his iriumpbant 
rn tu r11 from can1:nr. 1rn t Urn 
Bravns ahnad '.-\-2 in tlw f'if'th 
wlwn lw was hit by a pitch with 
the bases loaded. 
.Julian Tavarr.z 11-0I camo on 
to gr,t ()uilvio Veras l'or the third 
out and earned thn win. Jose 
Jimf'nrz pitched three scornless 
innings ol' one-hit ball for a save. 
Brewers 5, Reds 1 
Ken Griffey Jr. stayed hitless in 
Cincinnati while .Jeromy Burnitz 
homcred twic<, Tuesday night, 
leading the Milwaukr,c Brewers 
to a 5-1 victory over the 
Cincinnati Hcds. 
Burnitz, who hit seven homers 
in spring training. had snlo shots 
in thf' first and ninth for the 
eighth multi-homer gam(1 ol' his 
earner. Thc Brewnrs pulled 
away by sr.oring !'our runs off the 
stingiest bullprm in the majors 
last season. 
Dante Bichctte's misplay in 
right ficld let in the go-alwad 
run in the seventh. and the 
Brewers loaded the basr.s and 
scored two more in the eighth. 
Burnitz hit a solo homnr in the 
first off left-hanc!H Denny 
NeagJP and Dmitri Young 
matched it in the lirth off lcft­
handr.r Valerio Dn Los Santos. 
Milwaukee trnrk tho lna<l again 

in the si,v(~nth. when llnnry Blanco drr.w a walk from Scott 'Williamson (0-1 J, making his first appnarnncn sinr.e winning the NL rookie of thn vrar awarrl. Marquis Grissom l;it Urn ball sharply towards the right-linld corner with lwo out, and BiclrnttH tried to cut it ofT. 
Bic.hettfl, who had a !folding (11Tor in the openor. had the ball dt'flnct off his glovn bof'orc he kicked it awav as hil lost his bal­an cc and sirnn on tlw turf'. Grissom wound up on third and was aw:1rdrd :t trip!!' -a dr.ci­sion booed by lhe fans when it wus !lashed on t.lm scoreboard. 
Dodgers 10, Expos 4 
Gary Sheffiold's two-run honrnr off llidcki lrabu high­lighted a snwn-run third inning Tuosday night. and tlw Los !\ngPles Dodgf'!'s bPat the Montreal Expos 10-4 !'or thn sec­ond straight game. 
Los Angnlns had 17 hits. including eight off lrnbu I0-1 ). who was making his National Lnaguf' d ebul. 
Tlw :Hl-year-old .lapannsc right-handnr. acquin~d l'rom the Yankcns in a Dec. 22 trade orchestrated by new owner Jeffrey Loria. gave up six runs and two walks in two-plus innings. including a leadol'f homnr to Devon Whitn in the first. 
Chan Ho Park (1-0l allowed four runs -three P.arned -and six hil'i in six innings. 
Los Angeles had seven straight hits in its big inning. Mark Grudziflianck, onn of two Dodgers with three hits, singled leading off and ShP.111eld hnme­rcd lo put the Dodgr.rs ahoad 3­
1. 

Shawn Green, Eric Karros and Adrian Beltre l'ollowr,d with con­secutive singles that chased lrabu. 
Giants 3, Marlins 0 

Huss Ortiz madP-Florida look mur.h morr. like. well. the Marlins on Tucsday night. 
A night after totaling 12 hits and six runs in front of a sr.llout crowd. Florida managed just four hilo; off Ortiz and lost to the San Francisco Giants 3-0 before 9,524 fans. 
Ortiz (1-0) pitched eight innings, striking out five and allowing thrcr. walks. He went 18-9 with a 3.81 ERA last sea­son. and the Ciants won 23 of his 33 starts. 
lie picked up right whern Im left ofl'. 
Ortiz retirnd tho side in order in the sixth and sPventh innings after allowing at least one batter 
t.o reach base in 0.ach or the first live innings. No onn got past S!~c­ond base against him until the eighth. 
Sandy Martinez led off with a double. but was st.randP<l at third whPn l'irst baseman J.T. Snow snared Alex Gonzalez's line drive with two outs. 
Ortiz improved lo 2-0 against Florida and handled the Marlins li1wup for the third straight out­ing. In 21 carcor innings against Florida. he has allowfld 1~ hits and six runs. 
Hyan Dnmpster (0-1) pitched live innings and allowed thren runs on five hits and 11vn walks. 
Astros 5, Pirates 2 

Moises Alou and Jason K!mdall got all thr. attention as they came back from serious injuri!1s. Hichard 1lidalgo got all the RBIs. 
I lidalgo, back after missing the final two months ol' last season with a knee injury. hit a grand slam and drove in all of Houston's runs in a 5-2, rain­dfl!aycd opening night victory Tuesday over the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
i\lou. who sat out last season with an even more sr.rious kner. injury. was one of three i\stros walked by Jason Schmidt f0-11 ahead of Hidalgo's driw in the sixth -the first opening day slam in Astros historv. 
Shane Beym;lds (1-0). reluc­tantly making his fifth consncu­tive opening day start l'or the three-time dr.fending NL C<mtrnl champion Astros, pitrhr.d seven effoctive innings to outduP-1 Schmidt, whose 1.16 spring EHA led all major league starters. 
Reynolds donsn't especially like matching up against the other team's No. 1 starter on opening day. ynt improved to 3-1 with one no-decision in openers by allowing two runs and six hits in sevnn innings. 
f 
The ( lhscrver :icccpts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 \1.111. at the Norre D,nnc office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for ncxr-dar classi11eds is 3 p.m. Al classi11eds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per Jay, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content wichou, issuing refunds.  
3 days and counting to Any Excuse  Oh, THATS RIGHTI  
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT ART  to Drink 2000. Beware of No.2!  
NOTICES  EDUCATION ASST. for Snite Museum of Art  FOR RENT  FOR SALE  I am working. I promise. I can't IM  I haven't seen him in a few weeks ...  
Assist Education Curator with sum- B&B 287 -4545.  ·91 RED VW JETTA: NEW TIRES.  everyone!  But that DOESN"T mean I'm dating  
mer youth art program focusing on  BELTS. RADIATOR, CLUTCH.  anyone else.  
THE COPY SHOP  museum objects and related hands- APARTMENT FOR SUMMER SUB­ EXCELLENT CONDITION-NO  Mark-you haven't placed your din­ 
...  LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon•TI1ur: 7:30am-Mid Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-M,d Free Pick-Up & Delivery• Call 631-COPY we·re open late so your order will be done on lime•  on activities. June 5lh Jo July 28th. 10 hrs/wk. Fine Arts major with exp. Teaching andior working with chil· dren preferred. June 26th to July 25th additional Work Study hours-if eligible-with Naitonal Youth Sports Program to make a lotal al 40 l1rslwk it desired. PLUS room and board included June 26th to 2BJ/1. CALL educatton  LEASE! College Park ­2 bed­rooms. furnished. Call 243-8194. HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed­room, $1000/month. 2) 4-bedroom, $900/month. 3) 3-bedroom. $700. Call Bill al 675-0776. We'll make almost any changes lo the houses. FOR RENT FOR FALL SEMESTER 4 bedroom, 2 full balhs, washer &  RUST, GREAT MILEAGE, VERY SHARP. CALL 219-277-9683 AFTER 6 PM. $3750 Like new. man's 14K yellow gold 5 diamond wedding band. Appraised $900. Best offer_ 289-8509. PERSONAL  ner order yet. I'm ready for the long-awaited Friday night' Sorry I ate your jellybeans, room 506. I'll buy more. I can't help the addiction. I didn't mean to eal the whole bag! How many days until summer? I'm ready to go.  I can'! believe I have class in 6.5 hours. And a math problem set Fun. Lots of tun . Squeaky voice.  
curator Shannon Masterson, 631­ dryer. basement with hot tub. new  FULL COLOR  shoutout to M'Shan ­ just 'cause I  I'd like one squeaky sandwich.  
LOST & FOUND  4435 ASAP.  furnace. security system. Call for a showing 277-0636  Copying Printing  know you like them.  please  
Scanning  Noah, thank you for making me  Adam. thanks for the throat spray.  
IT'S NOT TOO LATE  sick. "It's just a liltle cold ..."  but really, I'm fine.  
FOUND: Discman outside library  CURATORIAL ASSISTANT wanted  A newly remodeled 5 bedroom  THE COPY SHOP  
Wed. nigl1t. Call Clluck@4-2925 to  for Snite Museum of Art. Work  house 1s slill available to rend for  LaFortune Student Center  Mindy and Mau...silting in a  Why is baseball on at !hree in the  
claim.  study is available 10-15 hrs/wk for  the fall semester. 2 full oaths, wash- Call 631-COPY  tree...being as bitter as can be...  morning?  
2000-01 school year.  er & dryer, huge rec room, security  
Responsibilities include scheduling  system. Call now to see. 277-0636.  TWO MORE YEARSI  I WANT TO GO TO THE ZAHM  Are they playing somewhere else?  
WANTED  tours and entering computer info Fine Arts major with knowledge of  Large. clean 2+ bedroom with  TWO MORE YEARSI  FORMAL'  Does anyone really care?  
FileMaker Pro and design programs  basemen! and garage. Top floor ot  Amanda, look out. You may gel to  Wait, I should be going to !he Zahm  
SUMMER JOB: Caregiver; two chil•  preferred, but no! necessary. Call  very clean duplex near ND. Ideal for  meet Matt in person.  formal...  Now some snow dogs in the middle  
dren. ages 7&6. Mon-Fri.7:30AM·  curator of educa1ton Shannon  single graduate student wanting  of nowhere are on television.  
3'15PM. Jun 12-Aug 18 Granger 272-6107 or 284-3485  Masterson at 631-4435 for more info_  space and convenience. $600/mo plus utilities, deposit 674·1670.  Jen-Here's your birthday ad -almost 2 months later! ---KS  Wait. he lives in Zahm. doesn't he?  A cell phone commercial ­ great.  

I 


Student Award 

RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 


•a• 

Recipients receive 

Michael Rizzo, a native of Lyndhurst, NJ, lettered in football, basketball and baseball at Lyndhurst High School. Rizzo, a senior finance major, currently resides off-campus. While at Notre Dame, he has participated in several different RecSports events. Most notably he was a memper of the Morrissey IH baseball team that won back to back championships in 1998 & 1 999. He was also a key performer on the Manor's basketball and softball teams. He did more than just "play" during his four years here at Notre Dame. He has been an extremely valuable asset as a baseball umpire, a men's "A11 league basketball official and a quality flag football official. His knowledge, hustle, confidence and genuine love tor competitive sports enabled him to excel in this capacity. 
<£~ merchandise from the 
~ 
VARSITY SHOP 
.... 
"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
Ree.==-~ ~~-­

www.nd.edu/ "'recs port 
Upcoming Events & Dead · 
Rockin' at the Rec Friday, April 7, 8:00pm-11 :00pm, RSRC 3 on 3 Basketball • Floor Hockey • Pool Table Tennis • Volleyball Come join the fun! 
Christmas in A ril Benefit Run 
SK & 1OK runs, plus 2 mile walk. Saturday, April 8, 11 :OOam -Stepan Center. T-Shirts to all finishers. $6 in advance and $7 the day of the race. Deadline for advance registration is 4/7 @ 5:00pm. All proceeds to benefit Christmas in April 

•• 
a.IL ­VARSITY SHOP 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (I::~ 
,-rL.,.~,.....:L-~ .... &'I.
merchandise courtesy of \..&----•-••,---.,_ and the v7j.1i(;; with two locations in the Joyce Center. The v;iri(;; is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
1­
I 
i page I6 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Hainilton stays with winning Mia01i teaDl 
Associated Press 

Leonard Hamilton led the Miami Hurricanes to their third consecutive NCAA tournament and their first appearance .in the round of 16 this season. 
Now tlrn llurric'.anes want more. and tlrny'rn willing to pay for it. 
Hamilton signed a seven-year r.ontrar.t Tuesday. kolieping him at Miami at least th rough th0. 2006-07 season. I-le is t~xpected to nearly doublt• the $400,000 he made last sea-;on. 
"He's doing all right." Miami athletic: direr.tor Paul Def' said. "He's doing a lot bettn now than hf' was before." 
Tlie 51-year-old llamilton had been mentioned as a candidate for r.oaching vacan<'ies at Georgia Tech and Nebraska. 
"I've never had any other intentions of doing anything else other than coaching at the UnivC'rsitv or Miami." hi' said. 
later and spent four years with the Cowboys before coming to Miami in 1990. 
The llurrif'.anes won a share of the Big East regular-season title this season, thnir first in school history, Hamilton's accomplish­ments are remarkable ronsider­ing he has done them with little support and even less talent. 
In 10 years at Miami, llamilton has one player in the NBA I rook­ie Tim James of the Miami HeaO. has had two players drafted I.James and Constantin Popa) and has had only four All Big East-Conferencr selecLions (James. Popa, Johnny Hemsley and Mario Bland). 
"Our goal is to bring a pro• gram to Coral Gables that will be a national power and contend for the national title on a consis­tent basis." Hamilton said. "How far away we're from that I don't know. That's the direction we're trying to move in." 

lhe Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 5, 2000 
Pangborn Hall Presents 

The Priee is Right 

Saturday, April 8th Library Auditorium 
8:00 PM Chances: 1/$3or2/$5 
Win fabulous Prizes! Play Pfink-o, Punch Out, Golf, and 
"It's always been my dream, and l'm excited about this opportuni­
SPIN THE BIG WHEELHJ
The Northwestern University

ty." 
College Preparation
'.\iliami is trying to break 
Program is looking for

ground on the $40 million Ryder 
*All profits benefit the Grace Community Center* 
Center. a 9.000-seat arena that 
Counselors
Hamilton hopes will help build tradition. improw~ recruiting and 
to work this summer.
increase student and community interest. 
We're hiring "Big Slbs" to helpSchool administrators foresee 
guide high school construction starting as soon as 
students from around the nation through a summer of
the summer. 
learning and fun at Northwestern.
"I would like very much to have an opportunity to be the 

For an application call: coach when we movP into the 
new arena." Jlamilton said. "I 
Qualified candidates must have

want to really look back 10 or 15 
completed their 

years from now and be able Lo 
sophomore year of college by 
the start of the program

say v>'ith sonlf' !ewe! of' pride tlrnt 
(June 12, 2000) and should have:
I was abJt, to contribute to help­
ing building sonwthing sp<'dal. 
... a desire to worl< with high school 
"This is mon' than having a 
students 

NEED: LEADERS FOR 
good basketball tnam and ·win­
... a consistent record of academic achievement ... strong oral and written
ning games." 
Hamilton bc~gan rnaf'.hing as a 
commi;nication skills 

APPALACHIA SEMINAR
graduate assistant at Austin 
... excellent inter ,:>ersonal skills (both in Peav in 1971. He took an assis­
group and one-on--0ne situations) -... time-management skills .. leadership skills 
tant job at Kentucky in 1974 and 
became th!' assor:iate head 
... problem-solving skiffs 

TASK FORCE
rnarh then1 in 1980. 
.. . a wide range cf extracurricular 
interests
I le got his lirst hrad coaching 

job at Oklahoma State six years The Appalachia Seminar is currently seeking members to join the Appalachia Task 
Force for the 2000-2001 school year. The Task Force consists of eight undergraduate students who form a leadership team responsible for planning, implementing, and creating new opportunities within the Appalachia Seminar. The Task Force is dedi­cated to experiential learning as a means to enhance higher education. We are in need of interested, enthusiastic, and committed persons to join us. 
NORTHWESTERN UNiYERS1TY 
Programming Contest 

If you have participated in the Appalachia Seminar, please consider applying to the Appalachia Task Force.
Sunday, April 9 12 noon -3 p.m. 

Now available at the Center for Social Concerns
APPLICATIONS:
1st Floor Fitzpatrick 
Computer Cluster 

Applications are due: Monday, April 10, 2000 
Languages C and C++ 
For further information:
Sign up with a partner 
Rose Domingo. Task Force Chairperson, 4-3960 
Ra~hel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Director, 1-5293 
Send names, email addresses, team name to 
' f'I_
Amencan Heart ~ 

Your brain sends 
Association.V
prijks@nd.edu 
F,r;trtng ~1111 l'll~au .andSll'C'>lr•
billions 
HERE ARE AFEW YOU SHOULD ALWAYS PAY ATTENTION TO. These
ofmessag
Test your programming skills 
to your body every second 
are signs of stroke, or l:lrain attack Get help immediately. Get the
Have fun 
message? For more information call AHA's SrnoKE CoNNECTl . N AT
Win prizes 
1-800-553-6321 
C1K!, Ain•rlt~t\ Hiurl lsHCltllOn 


Wednesday, April 5, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MASTERS TOURNAMENT 
Woods regards attention lightly, not intiinidated in tour 
As,ociared Press 
If anyone in thr MaslPrs is intimidated by Tignr Woods, tak«• hc~art. Thrr<' was a timl' whrn !WPn Woods. tlrn 1\/o. 1 playrr in tlw world. l'ound him­srlr in aw(• of anotlwr player and wonderrd wlwthcr lw was good Pnough to win. 
"I was 11 vcars old." lw said Turs<lay. · 
Woods said hP was pair('d wilh a 12-yrar-old in a junior tournamPnt whPn they camP to a 290-yard par 4. The big kid drovn thr green. and tiny Tiger took a gulp. 
"I was 
taken back bv that and f(;lt there was no way 1could com­pete." he said. 
IIr wound up bealing 

him that Woods day. and came away with a valuable les­son. 
"There's no point being intimidated on the golf course," Woods said. ''I know what I can accomplish. I know what I can do on the golf course. I know the shots I can pull off, and I've got to believe I can do it." 
Woods has made a believer out of just about everyone late­ly. 
Fl<' arrived at Augusta National as a heavy favorite to win his second green jacket in four years, and for good rea­son. 

Woods has won 10 times since the la.st Masters. 
No one else has won more than twice, while David nuval. Ernie Els and Davis Love Ill have combined to win nothing. 
Who else since 1945 has won six straight PGA Tour events? And the most daunting perfor• mance of all is that Woods has finished first or second in 1 O out of his 11 ev1mts. 
llerhaps that's why Woods didn't even blink when some­one asked him how it affected his preparation for the Masters knowing he was the guy every­one was watching. 

"People are talking about that every week I play," he said. "That hasn't changed. You become the center of attention when you're playing well." 
One thing that has changed is the course. 
They move a couple of tee boxes back 25 yards and grew rough for the first time last year. which looks more like peach fuzz compared to the 
U.S. Open but is still enough of a nuisance to lower the scoring. 
"You can't go out there and take driving for granted like you used to around here," Woods said. "You have differ­ent angles. It's going to be quite a challenge." 
That was never more cwident than late Tuesday afternoon. when six-time Masters champi­on Jack Nicklaus and Greg Norman, playing in his 20th Masters. stood on the 11th tee and tried to figure out where to hit their drives. 
Showing them the way was 19-year-old /\a.ron Baddeley. the Australian amateur who has been coming to Augusta for, oh, about a week now. 
"The changes might not look important from the outside. but when you're playing the course. it's quite different." said defending champion Jose Maria Olazabal. 
Not everyone favors the new look. Among the harshest crit­ics is Phil Mickelson. who is coming off a playoff victory over Garv Nicklaus in Atlanta. 
"I don't think it's the place of anybody who can't break 90 to be changing tlrn golf course from those original designs," he said. 

you know that little voice inside that says ''I can't''? 

h •,f~]
this summer,.[CfUS : I I, ., 

For more info call Maj. Schellinger, 631-6265 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 5, 2000 
NBA 

Finley, Dallas squeak past Webber-less Sacramento 
Associated Press 
Michael Finley sr.ored 38 points and convPrtPd two key frpe throws with 15.4 sPrnnds left as tlw Dallas Mavericks beat the Sarramcnto Kings 105-102 Tuesday night. 
Finlev had four second-half 3­pointPrs and the Mavericks went U-for-l 9 from 3-point range to win for tlw ninth tim0 in their last 13 games. 
Thf' Kings werP without !P.ad­ing srorer and rebounder Chris WebbPr. held out as he rnsted a strained 11,ft hamstring. WPbbPr suffored the injury in the second half of Sunday's victory over Philadrlphia an·d is listed i1s day­to-day. 
Corliss Williamson's 20 points par.ed the Kings. who had won six of th11ir previous nine. Vlade Divac added 16 pnints and 10 rebounds. 
Erick Stri1>kland had 21 point.-; and Dirk Nowitzki added 13 for the Mavericks. 
The Kings rallied from a 17­point thircl-quu.rter dcl.irit and were within 103-102 with 19.8 seconds lf'fl on Jason Williams· layup. 
But Finlev made two free throws with 15.4 seronds left to extend Dallas· advantagP to 105­102. 
Sacramento tried to work 
Predrag Stojakovir free !'or a 3­pointer. but Stojakovic stPpped out of bounds in the left r.orner with 2.7 seconds left before he was able to get a shot off. 
Pistons 104, Raptors 88 
Grant Hill had 32 points and Jerry StackhousP addPd 28 as thP Detroit Pistons bnat Toronto 104-88 Tuesday night. extending tlw Raptors' slide and causing them to be booed in thPir own building. 
Hill ,vas 12-of-25 and added nine rebounds while Stackhouse shot 10-of'-21 as th(\ Pistons won their third straight road game. 
Toronto. which held a three­hour team meeting Monday. lost its fourth in a row. The Haptors were booed for thP second straight game by a solcl-oul crowd at lhP Air Canada CentPr. 
DPtroit had 11 steals to Toronto's two. and went to the line 39 times compared with 17 
fnr Toronto. 
Tracy McGrady led Toronto with a career-high 28 points and ,tddr>d 11 rnbounds whill' Vince Carter. who bruised his right shoulder on Sundav, had 24 points. Ddl Curry had 14 points in 18 minutes off the bench. Antonio Davis had 12 rebounds and Charles Oaklr.y grabbed 10 boards. 
Timberwolves 86, Hawks 76 
Hookie Will Avtiry tilled in for point guard Terrell Brandon and guided the MinnPsota Timbr.rwolves past the Atlanta llawks ~6-76 in overtime Tuesday night. 
Bobby Jackson startt~d in place of the flu-ridden Brandon but he was largely inclTer.tivP. Avery's 3-pointer with l :Sh left in OT gavP tlrn Wolves their biggest lead of the night. 82-73. 
Avery linished with a 1.eason­bPst 13 points and seven assists. 
Kevin Garnett had another poor shooting pnrformancu (9­for-26) but managed 18 points. as did Joe Smith. who sr,ored four baskets in overtime. 
The Wolves nearly had a fran­chise first -hold{ng an oppo­nent scoreless in overlimP Bul Dion Glover swished a 3-pointr,r with three seconds left. 
Hornets U2, Celtics 105 
Anthony Mason scored 27 points as the Charlotte llornets shot a season-high 57 percent while rallying for a 112-105 vic­tory over the Boston Celtics on Tuesday night. 
Mason added 11 rebounds while Derrick Coleman had his own double-double with 25 points and 14 rnbounds as tlw llornets won their seventh straight. 
Charlotte. vying for home­rnurt advantage in the l'irst round of the playoffs. moved into a fourth-pla('P tir in the Eastern Conference with Philadelphia 
(42-311. 
Kenny Anderson scored 23 points for the Celtics. who lost their Pighth straight. Antoine Walker added 22 points and 10 assists. 
TIMBERLAKE WERTENBAKER 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Thurs., April 13, 7:30 p.m. Fri., April 14, 7:30 p.rn. Sat., April 15, 7:30 p.m. Sun., April 16, 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
Tickets are mil.able at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Olfice MasterCard aod Visa orders call 631-8128 
Charlott,~ neV<'r trailed again after Mason's free throw broke a 96-96 tin with 4:38 !ell. Seven straight points from the lin11 gave Charlowi a 103-98 advan­tage. 
Magic 107, Spurs 97 
John Amaechi scornd 24 points and Darrnll Armstrong had 23 Tuesday night as lhe Orlando Magic beat the San Antonio Spurs 107-97 for their season-high snvnnth straight vic­tory. 
Chucky Atkins. who had 16 points. led a fourth-quarter surg<i by rnirnrvns who helpnd Orlando pull awuy l'or good. The rookie had five points and thrnr, assisl<; in thr 13-4 run that put thr Magic up 93-78 with just under six minutes to go. 
The Spurs. who got 30 points from David Hobinson. cut their def1cit to 97-91 with 1:44 left. But Amacchi made a orw-hand runner on the basr-1line and Atkins followod with a clutch jumpnr to put the Magic back in control. 
Robinson made his first 11 shots and finish<~d l 2-for-14. Antonio Daniels had 14 points and Tim Duncan and Jaren Jar.kson nach scored 13 l'or the 

Spurs, who have lost two straight after a five-game win strnak. 
Bucks 92, Bulls 73 

DespitP-a poor start from All­Stars (;(nnn Hobinson and Hay Allnn, the Milwaukee Bucks got enough help Tim Thomas and Ervin Johnson to del'eat the Chicago Bulls 92-73 Tuesday night. 
Milwaukee (:{6-38) rcmainnd two games b1~hind Orlando l'or the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conferenr.c. The Magic defeated San Antonio 107-97 !'or tlrnir s1wenlh consec­utive victory. 
Thomas scored 11 first-quar­ter points and Johnson addod six to help pick up thfl slack as Hobinson missed his f'irst l'ivr. shots and Allen his lirst four. 
Thomas, in quickly off the bench duo to two f'ouls on Darvin Ilam, made all five of his shots in first. period as thP. Bucks took a 24-18 lead. Tho Bucks pushod th<' lnad to 18 points at the hair and 30 in the third quarter. 
Heat lll, Cavaliers 85 

Tim Hardaway had 14 points and lO assisl-; as the Miami Heat 
won their fourth in a row, 111­85 over tho Cleveland Cavaliers on TuP.sday night. 
Jamal Mashburn scorPd 17 points and Alonzo Mourning added 15 points and 11 rebounds for the Heat, who used a 40-12 run in the ser.ond and third quartrrs to pull away. 
Tho Heat. who moved within two gamr.s of Indiana l'or the Eastern Confnrencr. lead. com­pletnd a sw<rnp of the thrre­game season series. They havn bc1atcn the Cavs eight straight times since .Ian. 26. 1998. 
When tho llnat took a 107 -73 load with 2:15 left. it marked thrir largest lead of tlrn season at any time. The 26-point victorv tied Miami's season-high. a 115·­89 win over Boston on :1an. 26. 
Cl1weland shot 61.9 perr.ent from tho field in tlrn first quarter and led 44-38 midway through the second quartm·. but a flurry of' four turnovers in ·t :40 parked Maimi's game-turning run that r.nded with a 3-poinwr by Mashburn to give Miami a 78-5(> lc!ad with 5:11 left in the third quartr.r. Hardaway had five assists and a 3-pointPr and Mourning scored nine points during the spurt. 



Wednesday, April 5, 2000 The ob,,erver . SPORTS page 19 
~-------------------------------------, 
I 
three sets in No. 6 doubles. "We have awesome l'resh­She dropped the f'irst sPt to mcn." Knish said. "They add a

Belles 
her Kalamazoo opponent, but lot of depth and help in singles came back and won the last and in 3rd doubles."

continued from page 24 
two f'ram0s. rn addition a slow start. falling bPhind thf' Th" othu to his club's Kalamazoo team 4.·1 Parly in points on "We decided to stay in strong thP first Slit. Sunday the game and see what rerord, 
"ThrrP wtir<' a lot of' came from Stevenson is
we could do. And we

1111f'nru'd Prrnrs and WP just singlPs wins proud of the weren't focused." Knish said. by !'Jatalir. ended up coming ont rapport his "ThPy w1m1n't really winning Cook. Knish, on top." team has tlw points. W<' wr1re losing Kr0mer, with other thPm." and Mollan. coaches in 
Annie Knish

Knish and Vail's madP. a Tlw doubles the confer­strong rnmnbark and won thP lPams ol' sophomore ence. sl'l (>-4. Cook and "Almost 
"We• dPridi>d to st.av in th1• KrPmnr. fWery coach ganw and sei• wlial ~1· rnuld and Cox and frrshman Elisa has complimented mr on how do." Knish said. "And \VP Byan rPcordf'Cl victories as nic,, our team is." he said. rndrd up rnming out on top." V\'PII. "That contin uPd in our last 
Vail's fan,d anotlrnr tough "Thn warn did n'ally WPII on lh,v ganrns." 
malrh. going to a lkbrnakl'I' Sunday," Knish said. 'Tm The Briles will race off' in her f'irsl singks s~t. Slw cxcitrd about how thr. rnam against conferPnr:<' rintl Alma won that set 7-(i and wPnt on canw .ogetlrnr." lhis Saturday at home at 9:00 to takP tlw match. Plnvcrs sav that DP'>\ addi­and then non-conforence com­
Tlw l'inal tough match !'or tions· Lo Lhe "tnam have been petitor Tri-State at 4:00. Saint tlw lklll's l'ltnll' as l'ri•shmcn instru nH'nlal in tlw 11clles· Mary's is hoping lo keep the Trisha .Jrnws was f'on·r>cl to go Sll!'l'PSS wins rolling in. 
NEW PANCAKE-MINIS™-JUST 9 9 t I EAT A DELICIOUS BREAKFAST ON YOUR WAY TO WORK WITHOUT WEARING I TI 
,-< 
' .:/~.'· . ,, ·". ' 
. . . ·: ·~-_:_?~~~­
~ ./\;.; 
I.~ . . .;,...-·/ . 
., __._,.,, 
DELICIOUS, SILVER-DOLLAR SIZED PANCAKE-MINIS~ 
INTRODUCING GREAT-TASTING, BUTTERMILK PANCAKE-MINIS~ THEY'RE THE PERFECT SIZE FOR DIPPING rllTHOUT DRIPPING AS VOU RACE TO r/ORK. FOR A LIMITED TIME, GET SIX FOR JUST 99¢. ONLY AT BURGER. KING: 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 

It's probable that the Irish will have already clinched the match
Tennis 

when doubles play begins, but continued from page 24 Louderback has been pleased 
with the pairs success of late to capitalize on t.hat success. The and sees that portion of the Boilr,rmakers are led by No.1 match as important for his team. player Jennifer Embry who took even if victory has is already Irish star Michelle Dasso to clinched. three sets before succumbing "We'll still be looking to last year. improve in doubles," 
"IEmbry's] a real good player, Louderback said. "Michelle and at singles and at doubles," Becky have played real well Louderback said. "She could lately, and Katie [Cunha] has hurt us." played will with whoever she's 
After Embry, the Boilermakers played with." will send Shannon Taheny to llis thought process seems battle the Irish's Berky Varnum wise. While focusing on the big in No. 2 singles. Taheny is com­piciurn he will still hope to have ing off a Joss in her last match his team r.onccntrato on the little and will no doubt give Varnum things that might someday make all she can handle. that big picture a masterpiece. 
SHANNON BENNETTfThe Observer 

Though a win today against Purdue (7-9) seems likely, Notre Dame knows that only careful play will assure victory in West Lafayette. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
utbe J!otre 11Bame QCborale & Qtbamber (!E)rcoestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 

Byrd Bach Lassus Schutz Messiaen 
8:00 p.m . 

Wednesday, April 5, 2000 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free & open to the public. www.nd.edu/ -music for more info 
Get your friends together and show off your talents at the 
1st 

Annual Notre Dame Lip Sync 
Benefits go to the South Bend Center for the Homeless 
LaFortune Ballroom 7-9 pm, April 6th 
Admission $1 at the door with a Donation Drive for the shelter-wanter items are bathroom and kitchen utensils (drop off will be at the door) 


For entry or information call Charles at 256-5027 or sign up in the Student Government office. Entry deadline is April 5th 9:00 pm 
Sponsored by Student Government 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 5, 2000 
Fox 
continued lrom page 24 
tournamrnt in Boise. Idaho. 
Nrithrr tram bas Pvrr madr it past the regional round. That drn~sn·t mean thny bav1'n't bnen dose. 
The men's tf'am has spent the last tivr yrars a win or two a\,·a~· from qualil'ying. Thr morr rt'r1•ntlv-Pstablislwd womPn·s tean1 has. in thr words of Shit-I. "rmrrg<'d quickly as a powerhouse in thrir rrgion." missing nationals by merr points in rrcrnl yrars. 
Both squads look to advanrf' fairly easily through the sr:w­tional round. whirh takes plare thf' Weflkend or April 15 at Purdue. Then. the· weekend of 
•\pril 29. thf'y trawl bark to Purdur for thr touglwr tesL at 
NFL 
n!gional.s. To get to Id,tho, the . Irish will havr to gf't through tough teams l'rom Ohrrlin. Illinois and Michigan. 
Still. dcspitl' tlw team's focus nnd driw to ,vin. thr f'unda­mrntals of the ganw r1'111ain in thP front of' the play<•1•'s minds. 
"Obviously. 1wcrybocly wu.nts to win." Shid said. "!Butl it's not the bc-aH-cnd-all or ulti­mate. 
"A lot of' the reason I play ultimatr ... I think it's llw pco­
plr. 
It's l'oundrd on spirit ... If' you'n, not going to obey that lspiritl. what'rP you playing ultimatr for?" 
That. my friPncl. is a good 
qw'stion. 
The 1•iews expressed in this column are lhosr ofthe rtuthor and not necessarily ilwsP of The Obsemer. 
Elway ruinored to want media assets 

.\ssociated Press 
On the field . .John Elway wa_s never known l'or giving up. It looks likP that trait has r:arried over into 
the busi­ness world. 
Less than a year after falling short in a bid to buv 
t h ;, Colorado 


Avalanche. Elway thr DenvPr '.\luggets and tlw newly chris­tened Pepsi C1!nler. Elway reportedly is again considering buying the sports assets from Liberty Media Corp. 
"We're hearing that a group that John is part of is working toward trying to mah an offer." said Garv Howard. executive vice pr~sident and chief operating officer for Liberty Media. which acquired Ascent for $755 million. 
Elway was out of town 
· Tui>sday and did not rnturn a r<'quest for an interview. but tlrn Denver Hocky Mountain News reported that he and Broncos owner Pat Bovvlen ruu!d decide this week whether to buy the lPams and the Pepsi Center. 
Liberty is mostly interested in Ascent's hotel pay-per-view company. On-Command Corporation. and plans to sell off the sports teams in the next six months. 
Also interested in buying the teams is Wal-Mart heir Stan Kroenke. the brother-in-law of Bill and Nancy Laurie. whose $400 million offer was rejected bv Ascent stockholders last yrar. Elway and Bowl()n were part of a failed $438 million bid last summer to purchase the tAams and the new arena. They teamed with Colorado businessmen Bjorn Erik Borgen and George Gillett then but them is no indication if they are still involved. 
Bowlen, Borgen and Gillett would not comment on thr newspaper report. 
NEED AJOB FOR NEXT YEAR? 
Student Activities is now hiring for the 2000-2001 academic year. Positions available: 
Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew DeBartolo Event Manager Information Desk LaFortune Building Managers OfficeAssistants ND Cake Service NDExpress Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers 24 Hour Lounge Monitors 
Applications available at 315 LaFortune or on-line at """"UU'.nd.edu/ ~sao/forms. 

Deadline extended to April 7. 

Holy Cross College is a small, close-knit, two-year liberal arts college where you'll get the personal attention you need for success.We'll challenge you, too ... with an expanded curriculum that includes a new Associate ofArts in Business Administration 
degree. And wait till you discover our campus life. We've spruced up the landscaping, added new sports and recreation facilities and created more on-campus housing.Just recently, we broke ground on a new student apartment complex. Looking for the path to a brighter future? It starts right here at Holy Cross. 

Notre Dame, Indiana P.O. Box 308 
Notre Dame, IN 465S6-0308 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 www.hcc-nd.edu 
© 2000 HCC. 

Sixth Annual Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Lectures on Ethics and Public Policy 
Saskia Sassen Professor ofSociology University ofChicago 
Toward New Architectures of Governance in aGlobal Age: 
States and the New Geography of Power: De-Nationalized State Agendas and Privatized Norm-Making 
Thursday, April 6, 2000 at 4:15 p.m. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium University ofNotre Dame 

New Challenges for Urban Governance in aGlobal Context 
Friday, April 7, 2000 at 3:00 p.m. 
EVERYONE WELCOME! 
Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies (219) 631-6970 www.nd.edu/~krocinst 
Want to write for sports? 
Call Kerry at 1-4543 
page 21

Wednesday, April 5, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
"WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP?" 

A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future. 
TOPICS TO BE DISCUSSED: Stages of relationships Steps in making healthy decisions Long-distance relationships 
PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY THURSDAY, APRIL 6 

Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library 
Questions? Call 631-5827 Ask for Chris Etzel 
Concourse 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame junior attack Tom Glatzel has been named the Great Western Lacrosse League Player of the Week for the first time this season after scoring five goals and dishing off two assists in leading the Irish to a 13-4 victory over Ohio State on Saturday. 
Glatzel becomes the second Notre Dame player to earn GWLL player of the week hon­ors this season after goalie Kirk Howell was the league's first honoree following the team's season-opening win over Penn State. 
Glatzel. who has started all six games, leads the team in 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Starter Glatzel takes GWLL weekly honor 
scoring with 16 goals and five assists. He has 39 career goals and 19 assists in his two-plus seasons at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame is currently 4-3 on the season and ranked 13th in the STX/United States 
Intercollegiate  Lacrosse  
Association poll.  
Glatzel's  first  goal  of  

Saturday's game came after an assist allowing Chris Young to score a goal. Glatzel's sec­ond goal put the Irish in front 5-0 and he increased the score to 7-1 with 40 seconds remaining in the second quar­ter. 
Glatzel's last two goals pushed the Irish ahead in the second half and thev never looked back. · 
United in Prayer, ministry, and brotherhood 
Join us: Lenten Night Prayer; Munchies, Social. 
For More Info: 
Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 1-3087 vocation. l@nd.edu 
When: Wednesday, April 5th 9:00-10:15 p.m. 
Where: Corby Hall (next to Basilica) 
ANSWER ~
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
THECALL \t:f:::/ 





.-----------------------­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 5, 2000 
SOFTBALL 

Rookie Bledsoe -earns second recognition 
Notre !)amp's starting third 

Special to The Observer 
baseman also had tlw game­winning l{B! in thr tc,tm's 3-0 

For thr srrnnd tinw this sea­win over Connrctkut. going 2­son. Notn' Danw sof'lball playnr f'or-3 wiLh a run scored. freshman Andri;i. BlPdsoe has CurrPntlv. B!Pdsor is third on be1m nanwd tlin Big Fast [fooki<' the team in multi-hit games wilh of thr W<>rk B!Pdsoo earrn'.d tlw t)ight this season. including two same honor \larch 13. last Wf'Pk. 
In the team's l'ive games last ShP also has tlw Le.am ·s wet>k. HlPdsoP hit .5B (8-f'or-15) longest arlive and sPcond­with !'our Sf'Or(\U, a pair or dou­longest hitting streak ut nine bles. a triplr and throe HHI. games. 
FI:· h ~%.as,
'->i5f? eyes on:.. ,.. -~-Andria Bledsoe 
"!cl""'/ ''?fr•· fa'' ''WI' 
st· Si:bggi.ng percentage)S8-ATT(Stolen Bases-Atterpts) 
JOSE CUELLARfflie Observer 
Saint Mary's College presents Tennesee Williams' play 
Thursday -Saturday, April 13 -15, 2000 rD 
at 8 p,m. S,iol Mary's Coll•J• 
Sunday, April 16 at 2:30 p.m. ~Mg[;W&_ 
• l'OR THE ARTS
Little Theatre HomE aAME, 1H Fo; ticket information contact 284-4626 
the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow­Air orce ROTC Cadets 
liege is a time for decision oose to become a leader 
Cadet Gamache 
Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck -631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 

Sports need proud Belles' help 
Tlw thrnw for Saint Mary's sinrl' J stepped on campus, If than the athh~tes to Saint athletir,s Lhis year se()tns Lo b<' the dugouts nnccfod painting Mary's athlctks if improving refocusing tlrn Colltigp on ath­and then' was no onP hirPd to this program is truly a goal of lPtics and restu-r1•rting our do it. Lhc studenLs would the College. pridP in unquPstionably g<'l it done. Without f'arilith~s lbr our lklh~s ,Lth­i\s athletic director Lynn teams to practice on or full-timr, lctics. Kachmarik said. "This is a roaches to lnad thosf1 prartircs. 
.!\ n'cnnl uniqun and special placn wlwrn the B!'lles ran only get so far. tWf>HL al we all suµport onn anotlrnr Saint Mary's has more prid<' Saini even if' W() anm 't all at.h!etPsO in their studPnts and athlf1tes Marv's The second thing that than most placl's I havl' senn. high.lights o(·currcd to me was whv did tlw That always impresses nm. both tlw studnnts have to paint th,, A commitment to back that di[fkultv dugouts? llow am Saint Mary's prido with actions and tlw srh,iot a.Lhldir,s going to bn compntitive resources. however. is sornr.­is going to ii' wo do not have the resources thing that nr.n<ls to happen, If have doing tbat oLher schools W<' play Saint Mary's could g<'t whcrn this and against havn'' Hight now wn thny nnndPd to go basnd on the lhe lr.ngths don't ev<'ll ha.ve lhc resourcns support of the studenLs they lo which lo paint our own dugouts could go anywhern. but tlwy thn student Yes. Saint Mary's is a small. need more than support; they bodv is Division-Ill school. so our need rnsources and they willing to go to makr. tho ath!Pt­resources am limit.Pd. But dm~s descrV!' them. ic departnwnt as succcssf'ul as that nrnan that our goals should The Diews express<'cl in this ils academics. bP limitml. or should WP work rolumn are those o{lh<' author 
Hccently a grnup of'Saint to incrnase our rnsources and not neccesarily those of Mary's studenLs show1\d their instead'! The Observer. pride whrm tfwy surprisPd the Saint Marv's softball team by deaning ,rnd i:~ focused on repainting the dugouts. Th()y academics. not spent an nntirc wrnkcnd r.om­athlntks, so the plcting tho pn~jort. in order for answer will noL it lo b<J !inished whf'n Llw tr.am be turning over c,tnrn home from a road ganw. all tlin available Thcv Pvcn stnnci!Pd tlw Fn'nch rnonl'y Lo build Cro~ses on Urn dugouts thcm­a track and a selvr.s. pool and a 
Tlw first thing that came Lo more compl0tr, my mind. and. probably. most athletic lltcility peopln's minds, is how right now. impn1ssr.d I was that studenL-; Ilowever, is it would take th(' Lime Lo do this. acceptable that Ii was students' ideas and work my Division-II that made the lir,ld look so high school had much bnttr.r. Snnior Johna a brttcr track I ndriolo masterminded I.he plan than my col­and organiznd it. This willing­leg(1'' ness to step in and lwlp out Somewhr.rn. nven when it's not 1wr,cssary is thr,rn needs to a characicrisiic that has stood b(~ a commii­out in Snint Mar,v's wonrnn m!1nt by morn 



r
G:niversity 0 f n o t e dame 
0 ) JUNE 19 -AUGUST 4, 2000 
•_ ~-~I~ anthropologarty The 2000 summer session will begin ~ ~ on Monday, June 19 (enrollment) and end f n ~,~ \~ biology on Wednesday, August 2 (final exams). U J J J \ '°' business Some courses -primarily in science and chemistry languages -will begin and end before or
(n 

0) 
classical languages after these dates. The summer session Bulletin contains complete schedule computer applications information. The Bulletin is available at the 
economics Summer Session Office (51 0 Main Bldg.) 
engineering beginning on Thursday, February 10.I n english Information on summer courses, as itU J trench appears in the Bulletin, is also available 
at the summer session Web site 
german 

(http:/ /www.nd.edu/-sumsess/). 
governmentL history 

Notre Dame continuing students ­
0) 
international relations 

undergraduate and graduate students in 
E 
italian residence during the spring semester of japanese 2000 who are eligible to return in the fall ­must use DART 1) to register for summer
mathematics 

courses and 2) to add or drop courses
music 

through Friday, June 23. The DART PIN 
philosophy 

(personal identification number) for 
physics 

summer will be sent to all continuing 
E 
psychology 

students in early Marr:h. Course call spanish numbers, along with all other course sociology information, is published in the Bulletin theology and at the Web site. 
:J 
DART will be available tor summer registration from March· 22 to June 23. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; 
no appointment times are necessary. 

(n Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the first day of the course. Students who decide to register after DART closes on Friday, June 23 must complete the standard summer session application/course selection form. 
Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer me~I plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 2000 will be $232 per credit hour plus a $40 
general fee. 


Wednes<lay, April 5, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
LIC. !<..-• 
" ~ 
\<.­

Fox TROT 

EILEEN !ACo8SoN ,s WOLFED DoWN To GET 
JASON SVRE HE WANTS 
DOING HE~ BooK REPoRT HIS CE.REAL. To SCHOOL 
PRESENTATION THIS MORNING, AND j ASoN WANTS ENOUGH TIME To SCOOT HIS 0ESK R16HT UP FRON~. 
' l, 
"C ~)_ 
\ '­


-C Ll,K-CL IC t<-( I.IC K· 
C.L I( k -C. CL.-1<.t<­
THIS 15 THE I TOl.0 olllL HE YoV HE'S SWEARS HE A SWEETIE 
DoE.SN'T UKE. UNDER­NEATH 1T ALL. 
I 
TOM KEELEY 
•IIE INf1i:.t-\~~ Cf" ALL PLA<..£S 
\.JOu1..D r\,WE. ti. RtMOiE 11\AT fv'...1U~U.Y 
~o~Y..S 
BILL AMEND 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
N,0W, I-top O~ ON~ FOOT Al-lD e>A'2-K L\\<t ADO& .. , 
Be wary of employers who use 
"non-traditional" modes of interviewing. 
beam.1@nd.edu 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Windshield slicker 6 Employee's move, for short 
1 O Cries heard around cute babies 
13 Dupe 14 Quark's place 15 Headlight 
setting 16 Spotted wildcat 17 Loafers don't 
grow on this 19 Musical markings don't grow on this 21 Oscar winner 
Davis 22 Ceiling spinner 23 Mileage rating 
org. 24 Supermarket checkout item 
26 Cupid, to the 
Greeks 28 Hiker's route 30 ''Try me" 
preceder 31 Clears of vermin 34 Slip through the 
cracks 36 It might make you see things 37 Baby fowl don't 
grow on this 40 Accomplished 43 Pennsylvania 
port 44 Like a wake-up time on an alarm clock 48 "_ first you 
don't ... " 50 Pulls the plug on 52 "Comin' the 
Rye" 53 Obsolescent term of address 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

ASKEW LAMB NANO S T E A E E V I L E T O N P O S E R S E X Y R O T E 
55 Confucian truth 58 Dawn goddess 59 Deadly snake 60 Morays don't 
grow on this 
62 Henhouse products don't grow on this 
65 QB Doug 66 Maiden name 
preceder 67 Plane measure 68 Like horses at 
blacksmiths 69 Ave. crossers 70 Bastes 71 Krupp Works 
city 
DOWN 
1 "I do_!" 2 1930's first lady 3 Kind of film 4 Pueblo brick 5 Abate 6 Too hasty 7 Addis Ababa's 
land: Abbr. 

8 John, to Ringo 9 Certain sorority 
girl 10 Kind of gland 11 Ballpark 
purchases 12 Slung mud at 13 Tipped, as a hat 18 Watch 20 Chucklehead 24 Meat-and­
vegetables fare 25 Canary's call 27 Midwest Indian 29 Appealed 32 Everyday article 
Puzzle by Fred Plscop 
33 Fathered 
35 According to 
38 Motion picture 
39 N.Y.P.D. 
investigator 40 Devil 41 "Hmmrn, it's not 
coming to me" 42 Compensation in a lawsuit 45 Protect in a cover 46 Shoreline problem 
47 Deep-sixed 57 Gawks at 49 Dancer's woe -60 Hellenic H's 51 Sault Marie 61 ''tom thumb" 
star Tamblyn
54 Shoreline shower 63 Live and breathe
56 Actress Woodard 64 Just out 
Answers to any three dues in this puzzl; are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2000 
CELEBRmES BORN ON IBIS DAY: Gregory Peck, Colin Powell, Spencer Tracy, Max Gail, Arthur Hai­ley, Bette Davis, Judith Resnick 
Happy Birthday: You will be looked up to and taken seriously this year. BeJrepared to present your ideas an voice your opinion. You will be in demand and able to make a difference. You will move into a key position this year that will give you the clout you need to tackle some of the projects that used to be out of your reach. Your numbers: 5, 19, 23, 30, 33, 41 
ARIES (MARCH 21-APRIL 19): 
You are overtired and disgruntled about everything. It would be best to get involved in individual sports; however, keep in mind that you are a tad accident-prone. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Don't get into confrontations with family. Deception involving in-laws will leave you feeling hurt and betrayed. Keep your thoughts to yourself. Hope that your mate will side with you. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Get involved in organizations that inter­est you. You will be able to take a position of leadership if you say what's on your mind. You will receive support and favors for your efforts. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Prob­lems with peers will be upsetting. Don't push these people into a cor­ner. Relax and observe what they do. They will find it difficult to treat you badly if you are nice to them. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Gambling may be your downfall if you don't put your cash in a secure place. You will enjoy traveling and getting together with friends. Don't offer to 
EUGENIA LAST 
payforeveryone.00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will have a few uncertainties con­cerning your financial picture. Work out your budget and talk to your boss about a loan in order to consoli­date your debts. Job opportunities are available. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You will attract members of the opposite sex. You need to feel secure abotlt yourself. Socializing will do you a world of good. It's time to think about doing things for you. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You have a lot on your plate right now. Your desire to do the best you can and your reluctance to admit defeat will enable you to finish what rou start. Your main concern wil be 
work.000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): You need competition. Join a sports club or just cnall.enge yourself to get back into shape. It's important to you to look good. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You can bet someone you live with will be erratic and not want to pitch in. You will have to stand on solid ground and read the riot act to straighten out this dilemma. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20•Feb. 18): 
You may become confused while in transit and have difficulty finding your destination. Take the phone number with you so you can stop and let them know you'll be late. 
0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep your thoughts to yourself regarding your moneymaking ideas. Don't trust others not to steal your plans. Make sure you have the legalities completed before you divulge your intentions. 000 

Birthday Baby: You are outgoing, fun-loving and quick to help others. This will help you gain support, recognition and respect. You are terrific conversationalist and will never back down from a challenge. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
Q2000 Universal Press Syndicate 




Saturday vs. Rutgers
Today! vs. Valparaiso 5:00pm 

10:00 am
Thurs. April 6vs. IUPUI 5:00pm Sat. April 8vs. Boston College (2) noon 

Sunday vs. Villanova 
Sun. April 9vs. Boston College noon 

11 :00am 


Five times a hero 

nw Great Western /,acrosse !,eague named junior attack Tom Glatzel player q( lhe tl'eek afler his performance Saturday as Notre Dame defeated Ohio Slate.
PORTS 
page 21 

page 24 OBSERVER Wednesday, April 5, 2000 
Ultilllate encourages athletic spirit 
A v\'At>k or two bef'ort> I SP! out from home to berome u studrnt at Notre Dame. I plat·l'd 11 photw call to a Mikr Shiel. one ol' mv roommatl's-to-bn in a Morrissey quad. 
MikP wasn't homf' that dav. but instrnd of grtti;1g sonw sort of standard rrsponsP from his mom. likP "Ile's at a moviP." or '"Hr's al work." shr told nw that lw was playing in th<' UllimatP Frisbt>P .lunior \Yorld Championships in MinnPsota. 
Conw again'! 

I !Prf' I was. playing stirkball with mv neighbors whilP.this guy ,vas at a tournament wlwr<' lw and his tPam. tlw lmw n•prPsPntativf~s from th(~ unitPd S1atPs. Pnc!Pd up going und0­fpatPd and bringing honw tlw gold medal. I wasn't ('VPn sun' what ulLimatP, shorthand !'or ultimatP frisbPf', was, but I was most delinitl'l_v intrigued. 
Tim sport itself originatPd in thn late GOs at a high school in New Jersev. I always assumrd Mike had been playing a long timr to rear.h the l<wel that lw has. but he only started about !'our years ago. 
"I had an unde that played that I used to go watch, not ma] often, but occasion­ally." hr said. 
llr saw tlw first or thPS<' tournanwnts in 1993 and was playing by his sopho­more year of high school. in thP spring of 1996. In his opinion. this littlr-known sport. a club activity at thP rollPges where it is played. has bfl(en catching on more and mon' in recent vr,ars. 
"In the past. most people dicln 't find out about it !ultimate! until college." 
Citing a noticeable increase in interest at this year's Activities Fair as opposed to our fn~shman year. the sophomore said now "Whether [students] have played or not. they know what it is." 
A lot of us probably have at least a gen­eral idea about how the gamf' is played: two tRams. one on offense with posses­sion of the f'risbec. only allowed to advance the disc to the endzone-likc goal by passing. while the defense countt,rs with either a man-to-man or zone strate­gy. (So he told me some or that. big deal.) But what is behind ultimate frisbee'? 
For Mike and many others, it is this: "Playing for the love of the game, and not a win at all r.osts mentality." 
HP also told me about one of tlrn most unique aspflcti:; of this sport: The golden rule of ultimate. which, in his words. embodies the spirit or thP. game. 
"Ultimate has no refs. If there's a dis­
agrnrment. a compromis<' is rnaclwd, 
and play is rnstartr,d." •, 
Just bemuse thP desire to w.in isn't thP only n~ason driving ultimate f'risbce, brJth the men and women's Nolrc Dame tnams hope to win as thry pursun their biggest goal: making it to this year's national 
... 

~ee FOX/page 20 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Dasso, Varnum play top singles for Irish 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sport> \v', itn 
Notn1 Dame wonwn's Lnnnis t11am !wad 1:oarh .!av Lo11dPrback thinks hr knows 1'xart1y' how to IH1lp his squad rnntinur their nid-hot play. 
IIt' speaks about it c:onstantly, brlinv­ing that it will prop11l his tPam Lo tlw lflp. Tlw kPy to winning, tlw rnach said. is liicus, and in order lo r.ontinuc lo sur­t'.!'Pd, Not.n1 Danw will haw to summon the ultimate powPr of' c:orH·cntration. 
/\ string of' imprnssivn wins has llw Irish l'onrsing on tlw big picturn. 
"\\'p'n, really looking <Lt tlw Big 1-'ast and thn NCl\.1\s right. now." LtiudPrback said. 
liwn though their thoughts an• drill­ing to lhl' polt'ntial gloriPs lhat. lin alwad, thP Irish must l'ind a wav to forus on l'ach matrh. · 
That task ,viii nnwr loom largt•r than it will today -as NotrP Dam<' [wads to \VPst Lal'ayl'ltP to battlP tlw lowly Purdue Boilermakrrs. PurduP. «t 7-9 on tlw snasun. is not a partirularly strong opponent. But if' tlw Irish an' not c.arP­l"ul. tlwy rould g0t caught looking ahead and get blindsided from lwhind. 
"Tlwy'w had an up and down Y<'ar, and tlwy'vn struggl1\ at tirncs." l.oudPrback said. "But we have to bP card't1l, tlwy do havt\ quit<' a bit of tal­ent." 
Purdue cmrn-'s into thP match l"rnsh off of a win over Soulhrrn '.V1ethodist this past wePk<'nd, and will surnly bc looking 
see TENNIS/page 19 


WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Belles crush Colllets with fresh players 
By KATIE MCVOY Assistant Spores Ediror 
The Saint Mary's tennis learn domi­natr,d OlivP.t in a 9-0 win Tursday and improved its rncord to 13-1. 
The Belles f'aced off against thn Comets Tuesday at 3 p.m. in NilPs after being forced indoors dtw to tho inc!P.mP.nt weather. 
Olivet is in eighth place in thr Michigan Intercollegiate Athlotic Association (MIAA) after losing thr only two matches it has played. The Com<~ts had just four playrirs going into tlrn match and thus lost thrnc~ matches by default. Saint Mary's coar:h. Der. Stevenson. look tlw oppor­tunity to play a difforrmt lineup. 
Stevenson chose a young linoup l'or Tuesday, playing freshm(in Marta Zecon and Sarah Brahlrr, and sopho­mores Elizabeth Speith and Bridgid Burliend. 
"BPcause tlrnre was so much added depth this season. hn IStevensonI has a lot of llrxibility switching around the lintHtp," Zt!con said. "Playing first sin-gins was a big step up." 

"Olivet's players are very young," StnvPnson said. "It was a great r.hance for mr, to play somo of my othor play­ers. I'm lucky I inherited such great talent." 
All four women won their singles matchr,s in two sets and the doubles teams of' Zecon and Brahler, and Speith and Burlicnd took both matr.h­cs as well. 
"They did very well," Stovenson said. "Thr,y got to play in the matchos which thr,y don't get to do very often." 
The Belles wr,nt into Tuesday's gamr, following a successful road trip this w,1ckend. 
The Bellos traveled to Spring Arbor College Saturday and brought home a 8-1 victory. 
Stevenson took thr, opportunity to usr, a different roster a)a{ain. 
Co-captain Becky Kremr,r, Angela SandPr. Torie Cox, Zecon and Burfiend recordod victories in singles for the Bolles and th<, doubles teams ol' Krnnrnr and Leslie Ortiz. Zecon and Sander, and Burf1end and Cox claimod 
Ortiz's singles match. Stevenson gave most of the credit for tho win to his players. 
"The women analyzed their oppo­nents and what they had to do to win." he said. "They really don't need much coaching." 
Thr, r.oach has said hr, has been for.using on toaching his women how to analyze opponents, find their weak spots, and take advantage. 
ul think that has been helpful as far as strategies go." Mollan said. "Being able to analyze opponents' weakness­es has helped us win games." 
While somo changes were instituted against Spring Arbor, tho regular Saint Mary's lin()up trounr.()d a sur­prisr,d Kalamazoo College 9-0 Sunday. 
"Kalamazoo was tougher competi­tion that we've been playing," fresh­man singles player Lindsay Mollan said. "But everyone played vr,ry wt1ll." 
The match opened with a hoart stop• per as r.o-captain Katie Vales and Annie Knish played a r.lose doublr,s match. The doubles team IPd off with 
wins. Thn Belles only loss came from see BELLES/page 1 9 
ar Purdne at Georgetown Today, I p.m. Today, 3:30 p.m. Women's Rowing
SPORTS 

Indiana Championships ATA at West Lifayette, Ind. 
Softball :vlen's Golf 
Saturday 
at Calvin at Marshall Invitational 
Today, 3:30 p.m. Friday-Sunday
GLANCE 






