
Don't look forward to this one 
Generation gap
Despite the star-studded cast, including Haley 

Thursday
A student writes that shefells left behind when 
Joel Osment, crilic Casey l,JcCluskyfinds "Pay it 
candidates ignore the college age group in Javor 
Forward'' not worth at trip to the theater. 
ofissues important to older voters. 
OCTOBER 26, 
Scene . page 16 
Viewpoint . page 15 
2000 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Danie and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 42 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



SMC faculty supports Observer's independence 
debate bv means of free and Observer. The Board of essential that the College be The Faculty Assembly resolu­By MOLLY McVOY 
vigorous· student media are Governance heard in the tion follows a resolution from 
S.1inr Mary"s FJiror 
essential to the educational issued a discuss ions Notre Dame's Faculty Senate
"We, as faculty, under­
environment of a liberal arts statement in about the last ·month. The Observer's
stand that the staffat The
Saint Mary's faculty assembly college in a democratic soci­support of future of The relationship with the University unanimously passed a resolu­ety," and, therefore, supports T h e Observer have Observer. was reviewed by a committee tion al Wednesday's meeting the current status of The Observer's "From my chaired by Notre Dame profes­
policies in place and no
that supported The Observer's Observer as an independent current sta-perspective. it sor David Solomon. The com­
one else needs to 
indeplrndent status. student newspaper. tus last was important mittee made a recommendation 
"What we wanted to do was "We, as faculty, understand month. step in." that whoever regarding The Observer's edito­show support for the indepen­that the staff at The Observer Alexander is making rial and advertising indepen­dencc of The Observer," said have policies in place and no said that these deci­dence to Father Edward Malloy
Susan Alexander 
Susan Alexander, author of' the one else needs to step in," this resolu­sions [about and The Observer is waiting for 

resolution author
resolution and a Saint Mary's -Alexander said. tion was The Observer] Malloy's decision based on that 
associate professor in sociolo­The resolution is the second important at Notre Dame report. 
gy. public statement by members not onlv to understands The text of the Faculty 
The document states that of the Saint Mary's community support ·the newspaper's inde­that this is our newspaper too," 
"freedom of expression and regarding the status of The pendence, but that it was also Alexander said. see FACULTY/page 4 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Members discuss construction 
By AMY GREENE 
NewsWrirer 
Board members discussed the future 
campus improvements that will come to · fruition in the next year and the impend­ing revision of the College's mission statement at Wednesday's Board of 
Governance (BOG) meeting. 
"There is a planned addition on the 
cast end of Madeleva and designs to 
improve heating, air conditioning and 
water are in the works," said board 
member Allison Webb. "The number of 
classrooms will remain the same, but be 
larger." 
According to Webb. the costs for reno­
vations to \1adeleva and the creation of 
the student center will total $9.3 million, 
and totals for improvements overall will 
total $18 million. 
"By June plans should be set and it will 
be 12 to 18 months later until the con­
struction. During the construction there 
will probably be temporary classrooms 
for students," said Webb. 
In other Board news: 
. Senior Molly Kahn addressed the BOG about the new mission statement. 
"Please take a few minutes of your time to look at your e-mails about the mission statement and comment. It is important that we have student input because we are the core facets of the community." Kahn said. 
. Saint Mary's students arc organizing a Super Sibs club on campus. The club includes students from Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross who have siblings with disabilities. The club pairs students with other students who have disabled siblings and aims to give per­sonal attention that they may not other-
see BOG/page 4 
STUDENT SENATE 


By FINN PRESSLY 
Assistant News Editor 
In the wake of Democratic vice presidential candidate Joseph Lieberman's visit to campus Tuesday, Notre Dame's Student Senate dis­cussed the heckling incident that took place during his speech, as well as concerns that many students were unable to secure tickets for the event. 
"It's a shame that...the lead story was that LLiebermanj was interrupted by a heckler," said Ryan Becker, Zahm Hall senator. "I thought it was an awesome event. I think [Lieberman] is a great role model for anyone going into government." 

Student body president Brian O'Donoghue also discussed the inci­dent, clarifying for the Senate that the senior responsible for the interruption was not doing so on behalf of Right to Life, the Progressive Student Alliance or any other University-affiliated club or society. 
"That person was a single individual speaking alone," said O'Donoghue. 
Senators also voiced complaints from the students about the lack of availability of tickets, which were dis­tributed on Sunday evening in LaFortune. Tickets sold out within 1 Ominutes, causing some to question why a larger venue was not selected. 
"We set the ticket policy that way [because] it was within 24 hours of students getting back to campus," O'Donoghue said, also noting that a raffle would have been used had there been more time. 
"We know it wasn't an ideal system. The Lieberman camp chose Washington Hall, so we had no con­trol over that," said O'Donoghue. 
see SENATE/page4 


INSIDE Thursday, October 26, 2000 
page ::~ ========================================T,='/J=e=O=b=se=rv=er:::..::::::::::::::··=============================================== 
INSll>E COLUMN 
Death penalty protesters short-sighted 
Standing outside of Washington Hall, early Tuesday morning, I admit, I was a little intimi­datnd by the Secret Service men eyeing every slight move I made -the suspicious looks were enough to make me a liLtle uneasy. 
Ilow,wer. what really 
bother-~d me was the pres­ence of protesters against the deuth penalty. Targeting Gore is definitely not the most logical course of action to take -especially since Bush i~ infamous for govern­


ing over the state known for 
4flltl. 

executing the most inmates 
annually. In addition, Bush Klflin Turner 
has already let it be known· 
his plans of appointing con­
servati'le Supreme Court 
Justice:; if he gets the oppor-Copy Editor 
tunity. 
True, Bush has supported 
introducing accurate genetic 
evidence, but this recent turn of events has con­
veniently taken place within the last few 
months. Clearly this is a politically driven ploy 
to down-play the massive and rising numbers of 
executi:ms. 
Even though both candidates support the death penalty, Bush's dismal statistics on the issue make him the less favorable candidate for those o-oposed to the penalty. With more con­servative justices on the Court. the future looks dim for those supporting a more impartial method and sporadic use of the death penalty. 
For those who want to see the death penalty abolished in the U.S.• the appointment of conser­vative justices is hardly the way to reach such ends. The protest was like hammering down the nails in the death penalty's own coffin. or better yet, the coffins of those who would likely be exe­cuted'"' ith greater frequency and less concern. 
Many involved in the protest believed that they were protesting against the institution of the death p,malty, without deliberately singling out either presidential candidate. While this senti­ment is understandable for those adamantly opposed to the death penalty, it is hardly logical in a bi-partisan governed society. 
Protesting against Gore/Lieberman is in e!Tect, protesting not against the death penalty. but the hope of reform, and eventually the absolution of the institution of cruelty. One vote against Gore/Lieberman, is one vote against positive and substan Lia! change on the issue. which will ulti­mately lead to regressing. not progressing. 
As a supporter for the abolishment of the death ponalty, it is frustrating to witness such ignoran1:e of those whose actions may be poten­tially harmful to the long-term effects on the issue. Any kind of substantial change in policy takns pl.lee by rational means, not by biting the hand that may ultimately help your cause. 
Looking at the signs held by the protesters, 1 saw the true and unfortunate condition of a dis­criminat.ory law, but what was equally disturb­ing, was the thought of the amount of Gore/Lieberman supporters who may have been swayed oy the protest. 
Tho pl'otest succeeded in defeating the cause before the fight had even begun. Unless the pro­testers are planning on voting for Nader. the protest clid more tu hurt the movement against tho pena.lty than actually helping it 
The v.:ews expressed in the Inside Column are tho:;e of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Erin l'iroutck  Matt Nania  
Kiflin Turner  Graphics  
Coui cney Boyle  Dana Mangnuson  
Sports  Production  
Tim Casey  Kerry Smith  
Viewpoint  Noah Armscadtcr  
Lila Haughey  Lab Tech  
Ernesto Lacayo  

Th• Obscn-er (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi,hed Monday ,hrough Friday cxe<pl durin~ tx•m and vaucion pcrioJ,. The Observer i, a member of the Associated Pr,!u. AH r~prod.uction nghrs art reserved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Film: "The Patriot,"  . Concert: Notre Uame  . Performance: Blak  . Celebration: "Dia de los  
DeBartolo 101, 10:30 p.m.  Glee Club fall concert, 8  Images, 7:30 p.m.,  Muertos," Mexican  
. Event: Murder Mystery  p.m., Washington Hall  Washington Hall  celebration honoring the  
sponsored by the Student  . Performance: Folk  . Concert: South Bend  dead. 1 p.m., LaFortune  
Advisory Council: 7 p.m.•  Dance Group, 7 :30 to 11  Symphony "Spooktacular."  . Concert: David  
Carroll Auditorium  p.m., Clubhouse  3 p.m., O'Laughlin  Schulenbnrg and Mary  
Auditorium.  Oleskiewicz, 2 p.m.,  
Annenberg Auditorium  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Nader appeals to students to become informed 
STANFORD, Calif. 
world and a better country, and they 
Green Party presidential candidate will not wimp out when they go to the Ralph Nader provoked a packed voting booth." crowd to laugh, cheer and hiss Following a talk by Medea Monday night during his two-hour Benjamin, the Green Party's Senate talk at the university. candidate. the audience greeted 
Nader focused his remarks on stu­Nader with a standing ovation. dent responsibility, the corporate Nader encouraged students to look influence on government and social beyond their privilege at Stanford. issues like poverty and racism. He also "You want to be careful because criticized the two main presidential when you get accepted to Stanford. candidates, Vice President Al Gore you're not on the ladder to success, and Texas Governor George W. Bush. you're on an escalator; you don't even 
Students waited for three hours to have to climb," he said. "You won't be claim unassigned tickets for the 500 problems. able to develop the empathy to recog­seat venue. Stanford and the Green "We combine idealism with the need nize that most people are being shut Party co-sponsored the talk. to put power behind truth instead of out." 
Some students said they wanted to the waffling, wavering rhetoric of He challenged students to perform hear Nader speak to become informed politicians who think they can fool community service and to give back to voters, others because they thought you," said Nader before his speech. their communities as a way to define 
Nader offered specific solut_ions to "Students are eager to see a better themselves as citizens. 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Professor to defend rap artists 
CAMBRIDGE 
A Harvard University Law School professor has joined civil rights activist Rev. Al Sharpton to defend a rap group implicated in the Sept. 25 stabbing of Boston Celtic Paul Pierce. Professor of Law Charles Ogletree, along with Sharpton and Source magazine CEO David Mays, held a press conference Tuesday afternoon. where Raymond Scott. leader of the rap group Made Men is imprisoned on an unrelated assault charge. Two others affiliated with Made Men are charged with being involved in the stabbing. Scott has not been charged in the case. In a telephone inter­view, attorney John Swomley, who represents Scott, said that he was pleased to have Ogletree involved. "Ogletree will work on some trial and media strategy," Swomley said. Outside the correction facility Tuesday, Sharpton said, "There is a trend in this nation to stereotype people based on their music. dress and friends. We have to do better than that." 

BRANDEIS UNIVERSITY 
Health Center investigates RU-486 
WALTHAM, Mass. 

Although it is possible that the new abortion pill. mifepristone. also known as RU-486, will be available at the Brandeis Health Center at some point, the center is making no plans to offer the pills in the immediate future. "It's a safety issue." Kathleen Grillin Maloney, co­administrator of the Health Center, said. According to Maloney, the Health Center will hold off offering the pill until more information and research has been done on the effects of the newly FDA-approved pill. "I would rath"er err on the side of caution" she explained. Still, Maloney added that the Health Center will seriously look into offering the pill as more and more information about RU-486 becomes available. "We want to prescribe what­ever is best for the students," she said. Although HU-486 is not yet available in the Health Center. the morning­after pill has already been offered at the center for some time. In order to receive a morning-after pill a student can come in to the Health Center at any point during its working hours; no appointment is required. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Uty South Bend Forecast 

The AccuWeather@ forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 26.
AccuWcather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Lines separale high temperature zones tor the day 
/ 
/ 
Thurs~ay 


FRONTS· 
..........
"'r"lf'" ~ 

C, 2000 AccuW••th•r. Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
~tn': 

® © D D D D D D 
High Cow Shower• Aaln r .. torm• Flurrlea Snow lco Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via As.'i0Clal8d Prldl 
4,~,¢;Aq Q. Q 1) ~ 6 
Showers T-slorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associared p,.ss Gmf]h1pNet 

Thursday, October 26, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students recount trips to conventions 
. Nagle, Rafter thankful for national political experience 
By SARAH RYKOWSKJ 
Saint Mary's News.Editor 
While most college students were taking a leisurely summer vacation, three politically motivated Saint Mary's students attended the Democratic and Republican National Conventions. 
Colleen Rafter, a junior, and Heather O'Donnell, a senior, attended the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia from July 23-Aug. 4, and Michelle Nagle, student body vice-president, attended Lhe Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles from August 14-27. 
"I cannot tell you how grateful I am that I was selected by the Political Science department and Saint Mary's sponsored me financially," Nagle said at the "Brown-Bag" discussion that she and Rafter led Wednesday. "Otherwise I would never have bm~n able to attend something like this on my own." 
The Political Science department selected Nagle and O'Donnell, both political science majors, to attend the conventions. O'Donnell is currently in Washington, D.C., with the Saint Mary's Washington Semester pro­
gram. 
Rafter decided this summer that she wanted to get involved with the Republican convention. 
"I have an aunt and uncle in Philadelphia. My aunt was doing a lot of work for the convention and my uncle used to work for CNN," Rafter said. "[CNN] offered me a job for July and the convention." 
Nagle and O'Donnell were a part of a college program administered by the Washingfon Center, a non-profit organizaiton based in Washington, 
D.C.. that provides internships and academic seminars for students all over the country. 
During the conventions, students learned about the presidential selec­tion process by attending seminars and listening to speakers. 
The program also involved a field placement involved in some aspect of the convention. Nagle was placed with the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, where almost all of them. It was a great experienw." · 

Hafter was placed with CNN. After she and several other college students helped set up CNN's compound at the convention, Rafter worked with the Larry King Live Show and brushed elbows with celebrities. 
"I met Jon Stewart, Ben Stein and Bob Dole," Rafter said." I met George 
P. Bush. He was a really interesting guy. I worked with Ben Stein for a week because he had so many appearances." 
Like Nagle, Rafter helped transport the guests of Larry King and helped with inteniews. 
"I really liked 
she worked as a "I saw firsthand wlzo the 

working for Larry
member of tho senators were ... they King," Rafter said. 
transportation crew, 

spent most oftheir time "I got to sit in on
which shuttled sena­

its shows and hear
tors to and from con­with the big-money 

all the interviews.
vention parties. 

donors." I have. this picture
Nagle came in 

of me and Bqb
close proximity to 

Dole and John 
many senators as Michelle Nagle 

McCain. It was an
well as the contribu­Democratic National Convention 

honor to meet
tors to the 
attendee 
them."
Democratic Partv. However, she did not always like what she saw. 
"l saw firsthand who the senators were," Nagle said. "I would like to really believe that they represent the people, but they spent most of their time with the big-money donors." 
. O'Donnell recieved a position with the National Public Radio (NPR). 
"Because of my aspirations to go into political broadcasting, this was a most beneficial experience for me because I was able to make many important contacts with the media," O'Donnell said. "I was so incredibly lucky to be at a place where everyone in both the media and political worlds were, and where I was able to meet All three women 

agreed that con­ventions are still as necessary today as when the political system was cre­ated, although now for different rea­sons. 
"Conventions don't stir the same emotions that they used to and the nomination is pre-determined, but they are still important," Nagle said. 
"They provide an avenue for the people to come together and form a unified whole. Now having experi­enced the convention firsthand I can­not imagine them not occuring. I was in the presence of 30,000 people who believed in our democracy and the effect was breaktaking." 
New pep band aims to boost Belle pride 
ByJENNIFER BAKER 
News Writer 

The Saint Mary's Relles' spirit is on the rise 
now more than ever. Recently, Lynn Kachmarik, 
the Saint Mary's athletic director has announced 
she is trying to get a Belles Pep Band started. 
Kachmarik sent out an e-mail to Saint Mary's stu­
dents and immediately nine students responded 
with great interest. 
A meeting is scheduled today at the Angela 
Athletic Facility to see what kind of interest there 
is in forming a Saint Mary's pep band. Kachmarik 
also talked with the director of student life at 
Holy Cross to see if the junior college was inter­
ested in participating as well. Kachmarik says it 
would be "nice community relations." 
This new band would be a great way to show 
musical talent while adding to Saint Mary's com­
munity and enhancing the sporting events, 
according to Kachmarik. 
"I think iL will raise school spirit and will inten­
sify the enthusiasm of the crowds," said junior 
Katie DeCoste. Kachmarik is hopeful that some­
one with enough interest and motivation will step 
up and take a lead in helping to develop this 
band. 

Two new groups adding additional excitement 
to the basketball games have also recently 
formed. Activities night this year brought about 
the beginnings of a new cheerleading squad and 
dance team that have picked up rapidly and 
developed beyond expected interest. 
Kachmarik voiced hopes that the pep band will 
reach the same level of enthusiastic interest as 
the other new groups have attained. Kachimarik 
says that she has not yet had the opportunity to 
see the dance team, but said "the cheerleading 
squad was outstanding." 


•

1nne 
ans? 
Law students and Judicial Council Representatives will be speaking tonight on how to handle your case with St. Joseph County and ResLife 
Montgomery Theatre, In LaFortune at 5:00 
Thursday, October 26, 2000 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
St~nate 
continued from page l 
In other Senate news: 
. Pillon senator Brendan Dowdall expressed his disap­pointmon t that the smaller, "50¢" candles had been removed from the Grotto, along with their wrought-iron candelabras. 
"It's very upsetting," Dowdall said. 
O'Donoghue explained that the cnndlcs were removed l'ol­lowi11 g concerns about fire 
safety. 
"Th,) Grotto caught on fire at the bnginning of (Falll Break, and trie Fire Chief said those things have to go," ()'Donoghue said, expressing doubt about their return in the near future. 
Larger. $2 candles still remain, and according to O'Donoghuc, Campus Ministry will allow students to make 50¢ donations -or a larger donation, if they choose -for the larger candles. 
. Carenr Center director Lee Svctn spoke to the Senate about the continuing expan­sion cl' the center. encourag­ing all students to visit -espe­cially those unsure of their future career paths. 
Witt, a staff of 16 operating on the first two floors of Flanner I!all, the Career Centcl' has recently undergone an aggressive campaign to increase alumni mentoring. In recent years, the number of alumni mentors has increased f'rom zero to 700. 
"I think we'll continue to get the resources we need to be successful," Svete said. "We're diversifying. and if [there is something that] we don't know, our alumni will help us 
B()G 
continued from page I 
wise receive. 
. S1:udents are invited to join members of the board on Monday, Nov. 6 to "take a walk around campus and look at phones, lighting, and address security issues," said board president Crissie Renner. The group will be departing from the ou.t." 
Pasquerilla East senator 
Nikki McCord said that as a 
former science pre-profession­
al major, she noticed a lack of 
internships in the science 
fields. 
Svete responded that the 
Career Center was aware of 
this need, and that the center 
was currently in the process of 
increasing contacts with alum-_ 
ni working in those areas. 
Svete also noted that the cen­
ter was planning its first 
career !'air aimed specifically 
at science-related jobs, tenta­
ti vcly scheduled for next 
spring. 
. The recent Senate resolu­tion to bring a mailbox back to the LaFortune Student Center was met with reservations from the local postal authori­ties, according to Decker, who spoke with Notrn Dame post­master Mike Walsh. • 
Becker said that Walsh ini­tially opposed the idea because mailboxes in LaFortune were not used enough. The last mailbox was removed from the student cen­ter four years ago. 
"I said, 'It's the student cen­ter, and there should be a mailbox there.· He said he needed a legitimate reason, so I said again, 'It's the student center,"' Becker said. 
Becker also referred to an existing stamp machine, locat­ed outside the Copy Shop. "You can buy stamps to put on the letters, but you can't mail them, but he didn't think that was very good either." 
Becker later said that much of the confusion stemmed from the fact that the resolution was approved without first consulting Walsh. Becker announced to the Senate that he remains optimistic about seeing a mailbox in LaFortune in the near future. 
Welcome Center at 7 p.m. 
. 
There will be trick-or-treat­ing in the residence halls on Oct. 30 from 7 to 9 p.m. 

. 
"Say What Karaoke" will be held in Dalloway's Nov. 1 and Fall Day on campus is Nov. 5. 

. 
The Information Technology Resource Center will hold Web site workshops Nov. 8 and 9 from 7 to 9 p.m. 


Faculty 
continued from page I 
Assembly resolution echoes the language in the recent Notre Dame Faculty Senate resolution. 
"The Observer's current practice of the responsible exercise of full editorial independence, including the setting of standards for acceptable advertising, does not justify any modi­fication or further codifi­cation of its current status as the independent stu­dent newspaper of Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame," the resolution states. 
The faculty is unrlear as to the exacl effects that this resolution will have in regards to the ongoing discussion about The Observer's relationship to the adminislralions of both institutions. 
Regardle:;s of the effect, Alexander hoped that the resolution would send a message to members of The Observer's staff. 
"For me, the purpose is sending a message to the students running the paper that the Saint Mary's faculty support The Observer's indepen­dence," she said. 

University nixes summer graduation 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame has discontin­ued its Summer Commencement ceremony due to a continuing decline in student p·articipation, according to Nathan Hatch, the University's provost. The decision was approved by the officers and deans or the University. 
"fiollowini a review of the dwindling number of stu­dents in attendance for the summer convocations, and after consulting with the offi­cers and deans, I have decid­ed that this year's summer ceremonv was our last." said Hatch, ·who added that sche·duling conflicts in the summer also had limited the participation of administra­tors and faculty in the event. 
Most students who in the past would have taken part in Lhe Summer ceremony will be eligible to participate in the annual May exercises, I-latch said. 
Before the decision was finalized, James Powell, associate dean of Notre Dame's Graduate School and director of the Summer Session. surveved the Association of u·niversity Summer Sessions, and a majority of respondents said their institutions do not hold a separate degree ceremony in the summer. 

CORRECTION 
The Tuesday edition of The Observer reported that a Class C misdemeanor in St. Joseph's County can carry up to a $500 line and six months in jail, as well as loss of a driver's license. A Class C misdemeanor carries the possibility of a $500 fine, jail time of 60 days, possible loss or deferment of a driver's license for up to one year and possible requirement to partic­ipate in an alcohol education or treatment program. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

Appearjng Uve At The 
Free Student Admission! 


Appearing Friday and Saturday at Umphrey's McGee 


ATION 
Thursday, October 26, 2000 COMPILED FHOM THE OBSEUVEH wnrn SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.N. refugee chief nominated: 
Former Dutch Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers was tapped Wednesday to head the U.N. refugee agency -a top U.N. job that is likely to grow more challenging as people continue to flee war and reprnssion at home for safety abroad. Secretary-General Kofi Annan intro­duced Lubbers. 61, as his choice to replace Sadako Ogata of Japan as head of the agency, called the U.N lligh Commissioner for Hcfugees. Ogata is leaving the post in December after 10 years i_n otllc!'. 
Romanians fight investment fund: 
Angry protesters marched through the llomanian capital Wednesday, demanding the government compensate them for the collapse of' the county's biggest investment fund. A Hucharest court ruled later Wednesday that the state savings bank has to reimburse thousands of Homanians who lost their money when the fund collapsed. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Pollution adds to global warming: 
New evidence shows man-made pollution has "contributed substantially" to global warming and the earth is likely to get a lot hotter than previously predicted, a United Nations-spon­sored panel of hundreds of scientists finds. The conclusions by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the most authoritative scientif­ic voice on the issue. is expected to widely inl1u­cncc climate debate over the next decade. 
Bush tape probe conclusion sought: The lawyer for an adviser to Vice President Al Gore asked the Justice Department and FBI Wednesday to quickly complete their investigation of the anonymous mailing of Bush debate materials. He also suggested the mailing was the work of people associated with George 
W. Bush's Republican presidential campaign. which the Bush campaign heatedly denied. Raising an incident that had slipped from public attention as the presidential campaign moved into its final stages. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
County excludes abortion pill cov­erage:The Hendricks County Commissioners have voted to exclude the abortion pill RU­486 from insurance coverage for the county's 400 employees. "I am not going to have any­thing to do with abortion," Commissioner John "J.D." Clampitt said after Monday's vote. "l want it out." Commissioner Hursel Disney said he joined Clampitt and the com-. mission's third member because he doesn't think the county should pay for the pill. 
Market Watch 10/25 

Dow 
10,326.48 -66.59

]ONES 
ComposileUp: Same: Volume:

l.261 496 1,181,516,544 
AMEX: 905.86 ,w9.~9 i•, • 
Nasdaq: 3229.57 -190.22 NYSE: 636.50 .10.oi/:· 
S&P 500: U64.90 -2.38 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
• 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE 5GAIN PRICE 
JDS YIWOGASE (HDSU)  -25.JI  -24 ii;,  71.00  
~ORTEl NETWOl!KS (NT)  -29. l l  -l&A.l  44.~X  
MICRO!>OFf CORP (,\!SfT))  -0.41  .Q.25  bl.l5  
CISCO SYSTEMS (OSCO)  -7.75  -4 25  50.62  
NTFI. CORI' (IN l"C)  -1.M  -0.6<)  41..ll  

IVORY COAST 


Associated Press 
ABIDJAN 
Opposition . leader Laurent Gbagbo claimed the presidency of the Ivory Coast on Wednesday after a tumultuous 24 hours that ended the rule of the military junta that seized power 10 months ago. 
Soldiers and civilians took to the streets to cele­brate. although the festivi­ties were short-lived as supporters of one of Ivory Coast's largest political parties launched a new round of street protests to demand a new vote. 
Junta leader Gen. Robert Guei, who had declared himself the winner of Sunday's presidential elec­tion. was forced from power earlier in the day when his security forces turned against him and joined thousands of unarmed demonstrators who took to the streets to back Gbagbo's bid for 

power. 

Later. Gbagbo was intro­duced on state television as "president." He said he would be forming a Cabinet shortly. 
The longtime left-leaning politician and former uni­versity professor had urged his followers to undertake a popular upris­ing after Guei disbanded the country's electoral com­mission on Tuesday and declared himself the elec­tion winner. 
More than 50 people were killed in clashes involving civilians and mili­tary since Tuesday. said Nguessan Afi. an official in Gbagbo's Ivorian Popular Front party. The toll could not be independently con­firmed. 
At least three bodies were seen in downtown Abidjan. and five other people were seriously injured. Four sol­diers died in fighting early Wednesday, soldiers said. 
Guei's whereabouts were unclear. A former aide, Desire-Paulin Dakoury. said he remained in the presi­dential offices in Abidjan. Ivory Coast's main city. and "will be the one to decide when he talks and when he leaves." 
However, former Guei information minister Henri Cesar Sama. who is now allied with Gbagbo, said Guei had fled Abidjan for Cotonou, a city in nearby Benin. 
Airport officials in Cotonou also said Guei and his family were there. Well into the evening. senior government officials and their bodyguards hovered around the airport termi­nal. 

Internet sells unapproved HIV tests 
Christie said. Neither Christie nor customers from Oct. 1997 to March
Associated Press 

the FDA could say whether the kits, 1999 without advising them the which tested saliva samples. tended devices lacked FDA approval. NEWARK. N.J. to give false positive or false nega­Christie said the government was 
Hundreds of people used the tive results. attempting to notify the buyers. It Internet to buy an HIV home test kit The fDA has approved only one wasn't clear how many had been that lacks federal approval and home test kit for the virus that mailed to other countries. doesn't yield accurate results, causes AIDS: The Home Access "It's imperative that we at least authorities said Wednesday. Express HIV-1 Test System involves contact people to let them know 
The online sites selling the Ana-Sal sending blood samples to outside they should not rely on them -or kit claimed it produced results in five facilities. shouldn't have relied on them." he minutes that were more than 99 per­Stanley Lapides, 56. pleaded said. cent accurate. guilty Wednesday to a felony charge The Ana-Sal kits are made uy 
However. tests by the Food and of distributing misbranded medical Americare Biologicals Inc. of Drug Administration disproved those devices with the intent to mislead. Miami., a subsidiary of Americare claims, Assistant U.S. Attorney Scott He said he mailed 628 kits to U.S. Health Scan Inc. 
page 6 Thursday, October 26, 2000
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
lsiRAEL 
l~alks strive for peace iJn troubled region 
Ass<,ciated rre•s 
JEHUSALEM 

Israeli and Palestinian troop commanders met at U.S. insis­tence Wednesday to try to parn the way for a truce. and relative 
time in a 
w e e k 
duspite sporadic exchanges of 
gunfire. 
Israel said that if them were 
no 1ew outbreaks of violence, 
it c,>uld withdraw troops from 
friction points and then look 
intc ways or resuming peace 
talks. lluwcver. army officials 
were skeptical a cease-fire 
wou Id hold for long. 
President Clinton has raised 
the possibility of holding sepa­
ratr· meetings in Washington 
with Israeli Prime Minister 
Ehud Barak and Palestinian 
leader Yasser Arafat to assess 
prospects for returning to 
negotiations. 
The Israeli troop comman­der, of the West Bank and Gazi Strip held the meetings with their Palestinian counter­parts Wednesday in the pres­cnc1: of U.S. security officials. The goal was try to implement the cease-fire brokered last week by Clinton. Both sides havo accused each other of breaking promises made to the president. 
Israel has said the Palestinian Authority has done little to quell shooting attacks on Israeli positions. The Palestinians have complained that Israel has not lifted its security closure of the Palestinian areas and with­drawn troops from trouble spoti;. 
In all, 128 people, the vast majority Palestinians, have been killed in four weeks of Israeli-Palestinian fighting. 
~ 

1"hanlcl to you. all 80rta of everyday product, a.re being made from the paptr. plutlc. metal and glass that yo1l"ve been recycling. 
fut to l<eep recyc!Jnq worklng to htlp protect the enVlronment. you need to buy tho•• product,. 
E~UY RICYCLED. 
I  I I  
.,;,  'i,/  
I  :  
\  

 f  
AND SAW:  

Sc• look for cul buy productl made mm recycled m11tm,Ja. And don"t for· get to cel£brate lunutca Recyclea Day on November ISlh. 
IIt would ment the world to U!. For a ir,,, brochure. call l·BOO·CAil·EDFor vt,11 our web llite ar www ..U.org 

1~#11~--· 
But Wednesday saw only spo­radic rock-throwing clashes. 
Af'ter nightfall Wednesday, Palestinian gunmen fired at Israeli targets from several locations. Shots were fired from the West Bank at the 
Jewish 
neighbor­

calm pre­
hood of

vailed in 
Gilo on the

the West 
southern

Bank and 
edge of'

Gaza Strip: 
Jerusalem.

No one was 
For the

killed in 
third day

clrishes for 
in a row,

the first 
the army


responded 
Speaking before shooting began. the chief of operations in the Israeli army said that there had been a significant drop in violence over a 24­hour period. 
"We must wait a day or so to see if there is a real change," Maj. Gen. Giora Eiland said. If calm prevailed, Israel would pull back forces to previous positions. he said. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shlomo Ben-Ami said Israel could even envision returning to peace talks. 
"If, by some miracle ... the violence would stop, as a result of' talks Clinton had yes­terday with Arafat and Barak, mostly with Arafat ... then we could talk about the best way to restart the peace talks with­in two weeks," he said. 
It was not clear whether Ben-Ami spoke for Barak. The Israeli prime minister has said repeatedly he no longer con­siders Arafat a peace partner. 
Barak has tried to bring the hawkish opposition into his government to ensure his political survival before a hos­tile parliament convenes next week. If he succeeds. a resumption of peace talks is unlikely. 
Palestinian officials softened their tone Wednesday -just this week, Arafat had told Barak to "go to hell" -and didn't rule out a return to negotiations. 
VATICAN CITY 

Scholars press to open archives 
. Catholics and Jews question Holocaust actions 
Associated r,css 
VATICAN CITY 
Pressing the Vatican to open up its wartime archives, Homan Catholic and Jewish scholars raised explosive new questions Wednesday about Pope Pius XIl's silence amid Holocaust-era reports that Jews were being deported and kliled. 
Elevon wartime volumos provided by the Vatican do not "put to rest significant ques­tions'' about the Vatican's role during the Holocaust, said a team of scholars appointod by the Vatican and a Jewish group to examine Pius XII's wartime actions. 
While it was obvious the Vatican received early wartime reports from bishops and diplomats about the per­secution of Jews in France, Romania and other countries, it was unclear how the pope responded, they said. 
They noted the Vatican's public silence over the Kristallnacht anti-Jewish attacks in 1938, asking: 
"Do the archives reveal internal discussions among the Vatican officials, including Pacelli (the pope), about the appropriate reaction to this pro~ram?.. 

The scholars repeated com­
plaints of Vatican silence over 
the occupation of Poland, ask­
ing whether there was further 
documentation "with regard to 
... insistent !international] 
appeals on behalf of the 
Poles." 
It reported stark testimony by a Ukrainian Catholic bishop of the mass murder or Jews and asked "is there evidence of' a discussion or a reply to the bishop's appeal'? 
On the issue of a Jewish homeland, it noted that the future Pope John XXIII, a Vatican diplomat in Turkey during the war. helped Jews reach Palestine despite some personal uneasiness and asked for documentation on Vatican policy regarding Palestine. 
The report noted that Pius received the head of the Croatian fascist state, Ante Pavelic, in 1941. It asked how the pope reacted to reports of atrocities that regime commit­ted against Serbs. Jews, Gypsies and partisans. 
The commission of three Jewish and three Catholic scholars began examining the Vatican volumes 11 months ago after some historians asserted Pius XII could have done more to save European Jews from the Nazis. 
In last year·s "Hitler·s Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII," British author John Cornwell charged that the pope ignored the plight of the Jews because he was anti-

Semitic. The Vatican insists 
Pius XII worked prudently for 
peace, helped war victims and 
was thanked by Jews for his 
efforts. 
The commission's mandate was to study material pub­lished between 1965 and 1981 regarding Vatican diplomacy and to raise questions about missing information. But on Wednesday. the commission stressed that it would need full access to the Vatican archives to understand what went on. 
In response, the Vatican said the report "expresses positive appreciation" for the archive material, acknowledging the scholars' assertion that fur­ther progress "would requiro further documentation." 
The scholars were appointed following an agreement between the Vatican and the International Jewish Committee for Inter-Heligious Consultations. 
The three Catholic scholars arc Eva Fleischner, prof'cssor emerita at Montclair State University in New Jersey; Father Gerald Fogarty of' the University of' Virginia's reli­gious studies department and Father John Morley of' Seton Ilall University in New Jersey. 
The Jewish representatives are Michael Marrus of' the University of Toronto; Bernard Suchecky of the Free University of Brussels, Belgium; and Robert Wistrich of' Hebrew University of' Jerusalem. 

University of Notre Dame and Warsaw University Faculty Exchange Program 
Includes long and short-term exchanges. For more information, contact the 
Nanovic Institute for European Studies. 
631-5253 

r=================--·---==......;...,.._'---. 
Vie1:na1nese s1:Udent: !Associat:ion 
ef'Nat:re 'Dame 
(VSA) 
Firs-t General Mee'tinglll 
When: 8:30pm, Sunday, Oc-tober 29, 2000 Where: LaFor-tune Coalif'ion Room (2nd floor) Who: All in"teres-ted par-ties! 
(Questions? Contact ND.vsand.1@nd.edu) 
.------------------------------·----­
Thursday, October 26, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 7 
Clinton to stump for Gore in Calif. 
Associated Press 
SACHAMENTO. Calif. 

President Clinton will visit California late next week to campaign for Al Gore and Democratic congressional can­didates, Whitt> House officials s a i d Wednesday. as George 
W. Bush's campaign readied its first major TV ad buy in the state. 
Clinton's decision came after pleas from Democrats who are growing anxious amid signs the presidential race is tighten­ing in the nation's most popu­lous state. Tht> narrowing also prompted Republican Bush to buy his first significant wave of advertising in California. 
The Bush ads will double the current campaign by Republicans on his behalf, which means the GOP and the Hush team will be spending a combined $3 million a week in California -a breathtaking sum even in this enormously expensive state. 
The commercials will air in all major metropolitan areas, campaign spokeswoman Mindy Tucker said late Wednesday. English ads start Friday, Spanish and English spots start Monday. 
"Recent polls have showed us within striking distance, and we are in a very strong posi­tion on issues coming out of the debates," Tucker said. "We believe over the next week and a half we can close the gap and win the state." 
Democratic Gov. Gray Davis was among those who called Clinton, days after an aide sharply critic.ized Gore's stra.t­e gy in California, whose 54 electoral votes are an impor­tant part of Gore's election strategy. Those remarks have opened a rift between the Gorn and Davis camps. 

L>avis called Clinton on Saturday to urge him and Gore to visit, he said at a news con­ference. 
"Ile's immensely popular here," Davis said. "He's one of the most compelling speakers in American politics, and there's no one I can think of. absent the candidate himself, who could rally Ocmocrats and independents and motivate them to turn out, than President Clinton " 
Davis also said he appealed to Gore campaign chairman William Daley for a visit from Gore or running mate Joseph Lieberman, but received no commitments. 
"I think he was impressed by my strong appeal that this is the biggest state. we cannot get to the White House without carrying California, and that vou cannot take the state for granted." Davis said. 
He added that he would like to see the party or the cam­paign spend money on ads. Gore has spent no campaign money to advertise here while the GOP has aired ads for Bush. 
Democrats said they had begun airing radio ads pro­moting the Gore-Lieberman ticket, aimed at black and Hispanic Californians. Gore personally addresses listeners in the spot targeting blacks, said Garry South, a California adviser to the Gore campaign. 
South said he was uncertain how much the ads would cost, or where they will air. 
South angered Gore aides last week when he told reporters Gore may need to launch an ad campaign to win the state. 
Gore advisers, who believe the vice president doesn't need and can't afford to spend money in the Democratic-lean­ing state, are complaining pri­vately that Davis is trying to draw Gore resources to help boost other Democratic candi­dates and strengthen Davis' position on ballot issues. 
They wondpr why Davis is not dipping into his own $21 million campaign fund to pro­mote Gore. 
Davis does not face re-elec­tion until 2002. 
South rejected any sugges­tion that the governor, who is Gore's campaign chairman here. has not done enough for Gore. Davis and his political operation were aggressively promoting Gore months before he had an office here, he said. 
"The Gore campaign had nobody here on the ground, and the bottom line is the gov­ernor's political operation has been the major presence here for Gore for most of the last two years," he said. 
In Just a few weeks. Gore's double-digit lead over Bush in California has shrunk to between 5 and 7 percentage points, according to polls released this week. 
White House Chief of Staff John Podesta said Clinton would direct most of his ener­gies during the trip, expected Nov. 2-3, at "a handful of com­petitive House races." 
"What the voter turnout is could potentially affect these House races. That's frankly why we're going out there," Podesta said. 
He also may hold up to four fund-raisers during stops in northern and southern California. 


Columbia University's Biosphere 2: Earth Semester in Oracle Arizona Fall 2001 and Spring 2002 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Thursday, October 26 
5:00 pm 126 DeBartolo 
sponsored by the Center for Environmental Science & Technology 
.... 
.,;::. <.:1~N-1T:H F<_>lt 
Enwonmental 

· Science & Technology 
f,{ltWVfity ofNotre, Diuu 

Reagan, Bush officials help Cheney 
two fully decked out motor

Associated Press 
homes courtesy of Country Coach Inc., a mobile home

MEMP(l(S, Tenn. 
manufacturer whose chief

Dick Cheney is getting little 
executive officer is Jack

help from former Hush and Courtemanche, former assis­
Reagan admiRistrat.ion offi­tant to President Reagan andcials who have opened their chief of staff to former first
businesses to provide just 
lady Nancy Reagan.

the right backdrop for cam­
The vehicles transportedpaign events in key states Cheney and his staff to

this week. 
Country Coach's headquar-
I n ters, where

Washington 
several 

s t a t e , 
"The Clinton hundred
where envi­employees
administration hasn't 
ron m c n tal 
w e r c

issues are done anything on energy 
assembled

key, Cheney 
in the last eight years. " for a rally.
received a 
0 n

demonstra­
Wednesday,

tion and Mike Davis 
Cheney

briefing Avista Laboratories Inc. CEO m
e a ­Tuesday on fuel cell technology, an experimental alternative energy source, by officials at Avista Laboratories Inc. The company's chief executive officer. Mike Davis, was assistant secretary of energy under President Bush. 

Davis said the company wanted to promote Avista, which hopes to sell fuel cells to homes and businesses in a few years. But he pumped a little politics into his briefing with reporters just before meeting with Cheney. 
"The Clinton administra­tion hasn't done anything on energy in the last eight years," said Davis. It was a line right out of Cheney's stump speech. 
The event was of mutual benefit -Cheney used ·the briefing to steer his remarks toward energy policy and Avista received a plug from the GOP vice presidential candidate, who declared the company's technology "a tremendous development" at a rally that attracted local television media. 
Later, in Eugene, Ore., Cheney's plane was met by 
paigned in Roswell, 
N.M .. where he was intro­duced by Colin McMillan, who worked for Cheney when he was defense secre­tary. McMillan now runs the Bush-Cheney campaign in New Mexico. 
McMillan hailed Cheney, a native of Wyoming, as a "Westerner who understands what Westerners need." 
Such events are organized by local GOP officials and the national campaign, so it's no surprise that people with ties to the Bush administration who can help gather sup­portive crowds are stepping up to the plate. 
And, in shoring up the base of Republican voters in the final weeks of the cam­paign, it doesn't hurt to remind them of the party's legacy in the White House. 
At Country Coach, Cheney's wife Lynne singled out Courtemanche, saying he was "a reminder to us of days when we had a great president in Washington, President Ronald Reagan. 
Just the mention of Reagan's name brought cheers from the crowd. 


September 28  October 5th  October26  
El Son De Aqur  Freddy Kenton  Benji  
y Los Ases Del Merengue  y Su Merenbanda  
November2  November JO  December 7th  
El Son De Aquf  El Son De Aquf  Fuerza y Alma  

The Club Landing • 1717 Lincolnway East• South Bend, IN. 


page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 26, 2000 
RUSSIA 
Group alleges Russian abuse of Chechens 
ed to humiliations such as 
Associa.ted Press 
being refused toilet use and being ridden like beasts of
MOSCOW 
burden by drunken guards.
Chechens detained by 
The report cited several

Hussian forces have been 
male detainees as saying

killed. beaten, raped and 
guards had struck severedegraded. Human Rights 

blows to their genitals.

Watch claimed in a report "They asked me if I was
released Thursday, calling for 
married or not. If someone

Lho alleg11d abuses to be taken 
was unmarried. they said 'You

to the European Court for 
will never have children· and

llumau Bights. 
kicked them" in the testicles,
The watchdog group's 
the report quoted onereport detainee as

entitled 
saying.

"Welcome to 
"Prosecutors {in 
At least one

llell," for 
Chechnya] sit behind detainee died

the greeting from beat­
reportedly barbed wire and armed 
ings suffered

given by guards, so ordinary 
in running

Hussian 
Chechens can't go there the gauntlet

guards at a 
of guards,

detention to complain. " 
the report

camp 
said. 

comes as 
Diederik Lohman Russia's

the Chechen Human Rights Watch military cam­
war stretch­
es into a 
second year. 
Widespread abuses continue, 
Human Hights Watch said. 
A spokesman for Hussia's human rights official in Chechnya said a copy of the report had been received on Wednesday and that there was no immediate response. 
The report said interviews conducted with dozens of for­mer detainees show a "cycle of' torture and extortion faced by thousands of Chechens." 
The detainees are held pur­portedly on suspicion of col­laboration with rebel fighters, but Human Hights Watch said many detentions appeared arbitrary or motivated by money. Many people were released after their families raised sums ranging from $75 ,o $5,000 to buy their free­dom, the group said. 
The report expands on pre­vious accounts of systematic abuse. particularly at the notorious Chernokozovo lletcntion center in Chechnya. There, detainees were forced to run gauntlets of club-swing­ing guards and both males and females were raped, the report said. 
Detainees also were subject­alleged abuses by soldiers and guards and for military offen­sives that have indiscrimi­nately targeted civilians. But the criticism has not provoked action and it was unclear whether the European Union would be willing to take the matter to the human rights court. 


paign  in  
Chechnya has  
come  under wide criticism  
from  the  West,  both  for  

Diederik Lohman. director of the Moscow off'ice of Human Rights Watch. said some of the most powerful countries in the EU, including Italy, Germany and Britain, "have been really pathetic" in their response to Chechnya ­apparently unwilling to risk relations with Hussia. 
Hussia has appointed a human rights official for Che ch n ya , VI ad imi r Kalamanov. But he does not have the power to initiate investigations. only to refer cases to other agencies. Lohman said. 
In addition, "prosecutors [in Chechnya! sit behind barbed wire and armed guards, so ordinary Chechens can't go there to complain," he said. 
,,,.,!:t :~~, 
A Solo Piano Concert 
Friday October 2 7, 2000 8pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 

For ticket infonnation contact the s.,., ...,,.,eo,,.,.~ 
Saint Mary's Box Office at /M/!_3{-'Jk., / 
284-4626 ~:O~/~~.IN 
Please Join us in support ofthe The Center for the Homeless by bringing a donation ofcannedfiwd ttJ the c,mcert. There will be c<Jllectitm baskel.f at 1he ell/ranees. 
YUGOSLAVIA 

Ethnic Albanians express skepticism 
Associated Press 
PRISTINA 
Ethnic Albanians in Kosovo 
expressed skepticism 
Wednesday about an admis­
sion from Yugoslavia's new 
president that Yugoslav 
forces were responsible for 
widespread killings in the 
province. 
Kosovo's newspapers large­
ly ignored remarks made by 
President Vojislav Kostunica 
to CBS-TV's "60 Minutes II." 
in which he acknowledged 
that crimes had occurred 
during Slobodan Milosevic's 
crackdown in the southern 
Yugoslav province. Only one 
Albanian language newspa­
per. Koha Ditore. printed the 
remarks. 
"I am ready to ... accept the 
guilt for all those people who 
have been killed," Kostunica 
said. "For what Milosevic had 
done, and as a Serb, I will 
take responsibility for many 
of these, these crimes." 
It was the first time any Yugoslav leader accepted responsibility and express~d regret for any of the conflicts in the fast decade in the Balkans. Milosevic never admitting any wrongdoing in Kosovo. 
Nonetheless, some people here suggested Kostunica must take greater steps toward reconciliation before such statements can be believed. 
"After you kill, no apolo­gies can be accepted," said Arben Xhelili. 18, a bar­tender in Pristina. 
Ethnic Albanians endured a decade of oppression under Milosevic and an 18­month brutal crackdown by Serb police that only ended after NATO airstrikes last year. During the 78-day air war, ethnic Albanians say, thousands of people were rounded up by Yugoslav forces. Many remain unac­counted for. 
"This is only a little start from nothing," Milaim Murati, 34, a cook, said of Kustunica's remarks. "The good way to start would be to release all Albanian pris­oners from Serb prisons and find the missing. That 
.:f­f/-·____;:{().;: 
..,.::;:;::::::·· 

could be a genuine good Democratic Lnague of Kosovo sign." in the lead. Kostunica said Wednesday Hugova attracted interna­he would consider granting tional attention ahead of the 
amnesty  to N A T 0  
people jailed bombing  
u n d e r Milosevic, but he stopped  campaign"/ am ready to ... accept for seekingthe guiltfor all those a nonvio­ 
short of com­ people who have been lent reso­ 
mitting to the release of Kosovo  lution withkilled. for what Milosevic Be !grade.had done, and as a Serb, 11 e was  
Albanians  I will take responsibility twice elect·  
held since the conflict. Meanwhile.  ed "presi­for many ofthese. dent" of anthese crimes." interna­ 
more  than  tionally  
20,000 sup­ Vojislav Kostunica unrecog·  
porters K O S O  of V 0  n i z o dpresident of Yugoslavia republic of  
Albanian  Kosovo.  
politician  A I s o  

Ibrahim Rugova gathered Wednesday, Wednesday at Pristina's sta­announced that it will keep dium for his limd rally ahead lightly armed soldiers in of municipal elections on Kosovo to help the province's Saturday. Several polls show NATO-led peacekeeping force R ugova 's moderate for an additional year 
11 lnternatio~,.~~ HoUSe C 
Une Soiree Musicale 
avec Gege et Nico 
An Accoustic Performance ofPopular French Songs } /) 
Gerard Maze Nicolas Saettel 
(Switzerland) (France) 

Switzerland 

Thursday, October 26, 2000 
7he Observer . NEWS page 9 
GEORGIA 
Russian Ministry plane crashes 
• All passengers feared dead in fiery disaster 
Associated Press 
TBILISI, Georgia 

A Russian Defense Ministry plane with at least 75 passen­gers and crew slammed into a mountain while trying to land in bad weather Wednesday evening in Georgia. Officials said everyone on board was feared dead. 
A search and rescue team sent to the crash site about 15 miles cast or the city of Batumi f'ound pieces of the plane and scorched earth, Georgia's Emergency Situations Department said. Russia's llTR television reported that bodies had been found, and showed footage of flaming pieces of wreckage lit by rescue work­ers' floodlights. 
The cause of the crash was not immediately known. 
The plane veered off course on approach in "difficult weather conditions," said Alexander Silagadze, head of the civil aviation agency Sakaeronavigatsiya. 
[t was unclear exactly how many people were on board. Russia's Emergency Situations Ministry said the plane carried 82 people -11 crew members and 71 passengers -but Russian military officials said there were 11 crew members 
and 64 passengers, the 
Intcrfax news agency reported. 
Russian military officials said the plane, an 11-18 transport, was at an altitude of 5,300 feet when communications with it were lost, Intcrfax reported. Both military and civilian per­sonnel were aboard, the. agency said, 
Interfax said passengers aboard the plane included ser­vicemen and their wives and children returning from vaca­tion. Although Russia and Georgia became independent countries when the Soviet Union broke up in 1991, Hussian still maintains troops in Georgia. 
A spokesman for the 
· Georgian emergency depart­ment said on condition of anonymity that it was unlikely anyone survived. The plane was flying from the Chkalovsky military airfield outside of Moscow to Batumi, home to a Russian military base. It was a mail plane that made twice-monthly flights along the route, military offi­cials said. The Russian emergencies ministry was sending a plane carrying a search and rescue team, and an investigation committee had been formed. Russia is in the process of removing its troops and equip­ment from two bases in Georgia and is negotiating withdrawal from two more. Equipment from the bases is being shipped through Batumi. 

Congress approves debt relief 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Congri>ss passed a fornign aid spending bill Wednesday that gives President Clinton the full $435 million he requested to forgive debts of the world's poorest countries. Rep. John Kasich said the support for debt relief was "a historic act of grace." 
The agreement on debt relief. part of the $14.9 billion foreign aid bill for fiscal year 2001, was praised by both parties as a means· of freeing poor nations from crushing financial obliga­tions to let them feed and edu­cate their people better. 
"This is the most important foreign policy initiative for the new millennium,"said Rep. John LaFalce, 0-N.Y. He said the bill is targeted to help alle­viate conditions that kill 40,000 people around the world every day from starvation and inade­quate medical care. 
The foreign aid bill, which passed the House by a 307 -101 vote and later the Senate by 65­27, also increases military aid for Israel, provides $100 million in conditional aid to the new government in Serbia and includes $300 million to fight HIV infections and AIDS around the world. 
One of the last of the 13 spending bills Congress must pass for the fiscal year begin­ning Oct. 1, the bill was cleared for a House vote after a com­promise was reached to lift a ban on U.S. aid for overseas family planning groups that advocate or participate in abor­tions. 


The bill provides $425 million for family planning, lifting the ban on funding that Rep. Nita Lowey, D-N.Y., said was a "gag rule" that "jeopardizes the lives of women around the world." 
But anti-abortion lawmakers, who have fought for the funding ban every year since _1993 when President Clinton lifted the restriction first imposed by President Reagan, won inclu­sion of a delay in funding until Feb. 15. Their hope is that Texas' Republican governor, George W. Bush, will be elected to the presidency and issue a new urder stopping the flow of funds to family planning groups. 
Clinton has pushed hard for full 
'This is the most 
U.S partic­said. "This is ipation in an important foreign policy a down pay­
internation-· initiative for the ment to give 
al program these coun­
new millennium."
to offer bil­tries a fresh lions of dol-start." lars in relief John LaFalce Among the to some few who
Representative, D-N.Y. 
three dozen of what are called "Heavilv Indebted Pci'or Countries." 
This month he assembled lawmakers, religious leaders of all faiths and advocates such as the rock star Bono to lobby Congress on the issue. One in 10 children in the most-indebt­ed countries dies before his or her first birthday, Clinton said. "This is a terrible omen for our shared future on this planet," he said, "and it is wrong." 
Pataf!onia
exclOSively 
at-.~ 
Sminute~ from CUTPDS'T Campus d.Z.Jif 
Competitive In every 
sense Call 259-1000 for more details 
One participant at that meet­ing, David Beckmann of the relief organization 13read for the World, said the vote was a great victory for the world's hungry. "Not since Dr. Martin Luther King and the civil rights movement has the grass-roots action of churches and people of goodwill so influenced our nation's lenders," Beckmann said. 
The House in its original bill approved $225 million, and the Senate $75 million. The final figure of $435 million comes with the condition that be no new loans to benefiting the countries for two years. 
Kasich, R-Ohio, chairman of the 13udget Committee, said there's been anger and hatred toward the United States because of its economic plenty, and the debt relief effort would give this country an opportunity to share its bounty. "This is not just forgive­ness," he 
spoke in dis­
sent was Rep. 
J o e 
Scarborough, R-Fla., who said the 30 coun­tries whose debts were being forgiven are among the least economically free in the world. "You know they are going to come back [for more relief], because we are not requiring economic reform in these coun­tries," Scarborough said. 
The $100 million for Serbia would be cut off after next March 31 unless the new Belgrade government cooper­ates in the prosecution of war­crimes suspects. 
Other features of the bill include: 
. 
$963 million for the Child Survival and Disease Programs, including the $300 million for HIV/AIDS. That's $248 million more than in last year's budget. 

. 
$135 million for emergency disaster aid to Mozambique and other nations of southern Africa. 

. 
$127 million for peace­keeping operations. 




Susan Kilty, Saint Mary's Graduate of 2000 and current Indiana Governor's Fellow will be on campus Friday, October 271 2:00 to 4:00 pm in the Hesburgh Library Concourse to explain the: 
GOVERNOR'S FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM 

•  Tailored for college graduate~ who received their bachelor's degree in fall 2000 or  
.  spring 200 I.  
• Runs during the fiscal year, which is from July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002  
Experience four 3-month long rotations in various state agencies.  
• Earn acompetitive salary plus full fringe benefits.  
• Learn from amentor who is wei! respected in their field.  
Make key contacts in both the public and private sector.  
•  Form ftiendships with other fellows who share the experience of just entering the  
workforce.  
• Discover the intrinsic value of public service in Indiana,  

ApplicatiQl\i will be available thi$ fall. For an application contact Heather Macek, Program Director at 317•232-45c7 or check us out on the web at http:/Jwww,al,org/gov, 
-----. -­
pagt· 10 Thursday, October 26, 2000
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
=========================================================================================================== 
Vote-selling Web site 
c]hanges domain name 
A,soc ated Pres• 
SACRAMENTO. Calif. 

A Web site offering to sell 
21,(100 votes for president to 
the 1ighest biddnr has changed 
its comain name and switched 
its regislrar to a company 
based in Germany. 
Federal and state laws pro­hibi1. the sale of votes, but the Austrian owners of' www.voto­auc1.ion.com denied they had moved operations overseas to avoid legal challenges. 
Instead, investor Hans Bernhard wrote in an e-mail to The Associatcid Press, research showed that users frequently tried to type the new name of the site instead of the old name, which lacked the hyphen. 
Tl'.e site asks voters to fill out per:;onal d c tails and then offers to sell the votes -in blocks broken down by state ­to the highest bidder. The technique. the Web site says, brings the "big money of cam­pai~ ns directly to the voting public." 
The site offers to deliver the votes to any corporation or indi,1id ual, but it hasn't idcnti­fi ed voters, bidders or said when the sale will end. 
Ttc owners say the U.S. vote auction is ·a test to determine ho\\ they can make money. They still need to work out how voters would be paid and how to verify that they cast the right ballot. · 
El,~ction officials in Michigan and New York have criticized the scheme and a court chal­lenge in Illinois led to the clos­ing of the old site. California Secrntary of State Bill Jones war ried any vote sellers they could face felony charges and a minimum of three years in prison. 
The site was reopened this week with the help of CSL Computer Service of Germany. By Thursday, more than 2,500 California voters had offered their votes and the leading bid was $48,000 or $19.61 per vote. 
"Truthfully, this could proba­bly !{O on forever, so long as it is known by those who wish to 
EuropeSilel 

Purchase Between <>ctober 24 -28 
All Major EuropeanDestinations 
London Paris Amsterdam Dublin Lisbon Madrid Rome Glasgow Zurich Barcelona and Many More 
-C:•. 
student URIV&rse ~ 
IT"S YOUR W0•U D. EXPLOflllF IT 
800.272.9676 

!,tudentuniverse.com 
use the service. for lack of a 
better term." said Steve Jonc.s, 
a professor at the University of 
Illinois, Chicago, who follows 
the lnlernet. 
Shad Balch. a spokesman for California's secretary of state, said the domain name change would not affect California's investigation into the site and its employees. 
lie said investigators have found a way to identify users but would not go into details. Bernhard said the site's mes• sage board had been taken offline to protect users from the investigation. 
Industry experts say it would be almost impossible to identi• fy voters by using technology. 
"There is virtually no legal way to check who is using the site without a subpoena or warrant, which is unlikely when the operations are international." said Stewart Farley of Internet Products Inc.. a San Diego company that makes Web-filtering products. 
The original Web site was launched by a New York grad­uate student who sold the site in August after he was threat­ened with legal action by New York state officials. 
Internet auction site eBay has also had to wrangle with potential vote selling. In August, six people offering to sell their votes for president drew bids as high as $10,100 before the online auctioneer shut them down. 

H. Clinton returns contribution 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Ilillary Hodham Clinton said Wednesday she would return $50,000 raised for her Senate campaign by an Arab­American organization. 
" J\ I 1 $50,000, e v e r y penny of it, is going b a c k . " Clinton s a i d , adding that she and her campaign workers had no idea the American Muslim Alliance was behind the June 13 fund­raiser in Boston. 
The event and a separate $1,000 donation to Clinton by a purported supporter of the terrorist group llamas domi­nated headlines Wednesday in the close campaign between the first lady and Hepublican Rep. Rick Lazio. 
The New York Dailv News quoted the chairnian of Massachusetts chapter of the alliance as saying it had taken over sponsorship of the event "about one week" before it happened. 
Clinton said she thought the event had been organized by Boston businessman Shahid Ahmed Khan. The Associated Press could find no Boston telephone listing for him. 
"I resent deeply this organi­zation acting as though it hosted this event," she said. 

"It was not the case." 

There was no answer at the alliance's headquarters in Fremont, Calif. The group's national president. Agha Saeed, has said Palestinians should pursue their own state in the West Bank and Gaza through peaceful means. However. he told the Oaily News that United Nations res­olutions say Palestinians have the right to resist by "armed force." 
Clinton said: "I strongly dis­agree with the positions taken by this group." 
Clinton has repeatedly backed Israel during the cur­rent Middle East crisis. Jewish support is crucial for Clinton, with Jews comprising 12 per­cent of New York voters. Polls s h o w Clinton 
But slw added: "Sornebody was trying to take advantage of me. We have 13 days lel"t in this election. Fasten your seat belts. You have no idea what's going to be thrown at me." 
Meanwhile, Clinton and the Bush presidential campaign said they were returning $1,000 donations from Abudrahman Alamoudi of the American Muslim Council. The Daily News said he has voiced support l'or llamas, which the U.S. government considers a terrorist organiza­tion because it has taken responsibility for suicide bombings on Israeli civilian targets. 
Alamoudi made his dona­tions to Clinton and Texas Gov. George W. Bush in May. Hay Sullivan. a B u s h 

leading "All $50,000, every spokesman, said Lazio 2-1 the money
penny ofit, is going 
a m o n g would be Jews, with back." rcturnnd. a slim lead "Governor over Lazio Bush has
Hillary Rodham Clinton 
overall. worked hard to
Senate candidate
T h C 

American Muslim Alliance Web site features a photograph of Clinton at the Boston fund-raiser holding a plaque inscribed with the organization's name. 
Clinton said she receives thousands of plaques and rou­tinely hands them to aides without examining them. She refused say if she believed the organization intentionally con­cealed its sponsorship of the event to hurt her campaign. 
bring people 
together and to 
support the administration·s efforts in the Mideast peace process," Sullivan said. 
The Clinton campaign returned the money Tuesday, Clinton spokesman Howard Wolfson said. "II illary is a strong supporter of peace and security for Israel," he said. 
Lazio called the donation "blood money," and said Bush shouldn't have accepted the monli7 either. 


Thursday, October 26, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Clinton, GOP near tax cut deal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

After months of open parti­san warfare over tax cuts, President Clinton and congres­sional Republicans neared agreement Wednesday on a tax relief pack­age that would help people save for retire­mcn t, pay 
for long-
Hastert t e r m health care and give businesses breaks to offset the costs of a $1 mini­mum wage increase. The legislation, expected to cost about $245 billion over 10 years, also would provide a host of new tax incentives to revitalize downtrodden com­munities and set up a new tax system for U.S. exporters to avert a trade war with the European Union. Although disagreement remained in some areas, a con­genial exchange of letters between Clinton and House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-111., made it clear that both sides expected compromise before Congress adjourns for the year. "We should also work togeth­er to pass tax cuts for middle­class Americans," Clinton told reporters at the White House. "You know, in budget talks, the two sides often wind up talking past each other. It takes a little extra effort to reach across the divide, so that's what I'm trying 
to do today." 
The tone stood in marked contrast to the politically charged rhetoric surrounding GOP tax cuts such as repeal of the estate tax and relief from the "marriage penalty" tax on two-income couples, both of which the president vetoed ear­lier this year. 
"I agree with you that we should work togPthcr in a bipartisan fashion, and I believe this work product is a result of a hard-fought compro­mise," Hastert told Clinton in a letter. 
The speaker removed one key obstacle by assuring Clinton that Republicans would drop several proposed labor law changes as. part of the two­year, $1 increase in the $5.15­an-hour minimum wage. Democrats had labeled those provisions unfair to workers, especially a plan to freeze the wage floor for waiters and waitresses, who also earn tips, at $2.13 an hour. 
There is broad agreement on many of the tax package's pro­visions, but Clinton and con­gressional Democratc; also con­tinued to raise objections. In addition, the tax and minimum wage measure is expected to be coupled with separate legisla­tion boosting Medicare pay­ments to health care providers, a measure that has its own dif­ficulties. 
'There are a couple of issues that are still, I guess I should say, in controversy," said Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss. "But I believe it will wind up passing by a wide margin." 
Later Wednesday, the presi­dent's chief economic adviser, Gene Sperling, raised addition­al questions about the Republican tax plan, saying there was no acceptable plan to boost school construction and there were "serious concerns" with several of the health care provisions. Ile did not issue a veto threat, however. 
"We're hopeful the Republicans will choose good­faith negotiations that will lead to an agreement," Sperling said. 
An outline provided by Senate Finance Committee Chairman William Roth, R-Del.. indicates the tax legislation will include provisions to raise indi­vidual retirement account annual contribution limits from $2,000 to $5,000 and 40l(k) plan contributions limits from $10,500 to $15,000 a year. It also will contain changes tu make i+ easier for businesses to offer pensions to workers. 
In a letter to Hastert, Clinton said he favored tax incentives for low-income workers to save money and "meaningful protec­tions" for employees whose companies switch to new pen­sion plans that can reduce ben­efits for older people. 
The legislation also will include tax breaks -long sought by Clinton -to help people with long-term health care costs and the expenses of health insurance. 
The GOP bill will include a tax deductionfor the expenses of caring for an elderly or dis­abled relative. 

Education Secretary explains stolen funds 
"We expect to recover every penny by the time the [theft ring] investigation and prose­cution is completed," Riley said at a hea.ring of the House Education and Workforce Committee, the panel's third forum this year on the agency's handling of its $32 billion budget. 
"We can't say nobody will ever steal in the future or com­mit forgery." 
The department, which has had trouble clearing its audits, was again taken to task for the thefts, the state of its books, distribution of special educa­tion funds, and Riley's official department trips to Democratic Congressional dis­tricts. 
The high-profile theft cases drew the most attention. Riley angered lawmakers by once again being unable to say how much money the department has lost in recent years to fraud, waste and abuse. 
"Once we stop denying these problems, we can begin to address them in a meaningful manner," said Rep. Pete Hoekstra, R-Mich., who chairs the House Education and the Workforce Committee's investi­gations panel. 
Hoekstra, an outspoken critic of Riley's management, has pushed for a congressional audit of the agency. Though such a move is rare, audit leg­islation passed the House and has yet to appear before the 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Asked by Congress to explain a pair of theft schemes at his agency, Education Secretary Richard Riley said Wednesday more than half the $3 million taken this year has been recov­ered. 
lliley, who blamed the inci­dents on "misplacr,d faith" in a longtime, career employee and "abuse of our trust," said $1.9 million in stolen grants for children who live on Indian reservations and military bases had been returned to two South Dakota school districts. 
The money was diverted in July with forged documents into Maryland bank accounts and used to purchase a Cadillac, real estate and other property. 
The government seized the property after winning a civil judgment. No criminal charges have been filed. 
Riley could not say how much would be recovered from the March theft of $1 million in equipment and from falsely reported overtime. Six depart­ment employees pleaded guilty in the case, which is still pend­ing, the U.S. Attorney's office said. 
He offered no details on how employees or outsiders could have avoided department secu­rity, but said that "we have put stringent new measures in place." 
¦ 

. ,., r ' -r r 

p:1ge 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 26, 2000 
student union 
HAPPENINGS 
STUDENT UNION BOARD www.nd.edu/~sub 

Movie: The Patriot. 10/26. Thursday. De Bartolo 101. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 10/27. Friday. DeBartolo 101. 0800PM & 1030PM. 10/28. Saturday. DeBartolo 101. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Movie: The Exorcist. 10/26. Thursday. DeBartolo 155. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 10/27. Friday. DeBartolo 155. 0800PM & 1030PM. 10/28. Saturday. DeBartolo 155. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 10/26. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
Tom Deluca. 10/27. Friday. Stepan Center. 1000PM. Tickets: $5. 
Pumpkin Painting. 10/31. Tuesday. Feildhouse Mall. 0400-0700PM. 
Guster. 11/3. Friday. Stepan Center. Tickets on sale at LaFun Box Office. 
MISCELLANE OUSICAMPUS-WIDE 
Pep Rally. 10/27. Friday. JACC. 0630PM. 
ND Vs. Air Force. 10/28. Saturday. Home.-0130PM. 
ND Fall Glee Clu b Concert 10/26. Thursday. Washington Hall. 0800PM. 10/27. Friday. Washington Hall. 0800PM. 10/28. Saturday. Washington Hall. 0800PM. 
112th Annual Sorin Talent Sho w 10/27. Friday. Sorin Porch. 0830PM. 

Flipside Hallo ween Dance. 10/27. Friday. LaFun Ballroom. 1 000PM-01 0OAM. 
Dr. Strangelove. 10/26. Thursday. Snite. 0700PM. 
Princess Mononoke. 10/27. Friday. Snite. 0900PM. 10/28. Saturday. Snite. 090l'PM. 

SUB welcomes ND parents this coming weekend and wishes everyone a Happy Halloween! 

Thursday, October 26, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Howard students march in protest of classmate's death 
. Hundreds want justice for student killed by police 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Hundreds of university stu­dents marched through the streets of the nation's capital Wednesday demanding justice for a black classmate killed by a police officer in a suburban county. 
"There is no surplus of African-American males," said Sellano Simmons, 21, a senior and president of the student body at historically black Howard University. 
In the midst of a campus rally to condemn the Sept. 1 shooting death of Prince Jones, 25, Simmons led stu­dents on an impromptu march with police escorts to the Justice Department. 
Security officials shut heavy metal doors to keep students out, but Simmons and five other students were ushered in to discuss the case with Bill Lann Lee, assistant attorney general for civil rights, and a 

deputy, Stuart Ishimaru. 
The case involves a night­time police operation that began in Maryland and ended in Virginia. Police said Carlton Jones, a corporal in the Prince George's County, Md., police force driving an unmarked vehicle, followed Prince Jones, 25, into Fairfax County, Va., · because the officer believed Jones' Jeep was involved in 
two earlier incidents in which police cars allegedly were rammed by a Jeep similar to Jones'. 
The man wanted in those incidents has since turned himself in, Prince George's police said. 
Carlton Jones said Prince Jones stopped his SUV and backed more than once into the policeman's unmarked 


So, what's your money market paying? 
it's time you checked out ours! 
NC>TREDAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 

219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org 800/522-6611
Independent of' the Univen:ity 

•$"15,000 minimum op.snlng deposit. Annual Percentage Vlekl (APV) effective aa of October 18, 2000. APV Is vart.able. Th• APV wlll change each VVednesd•y tn reflect the 'N&ekty treasury auction bond 
~<=::tItia~ I~E~lD

equlv•lent yteld for 91---day T-bllla. If the dally minimum bal..inc:e falls below S 15.000 on any given day. a S7.oo monthly-n1a1ntenance fee wtll be us.sesaec:1 aga1net the acc,ount. thereby ~ucing earnings.. ~':: 
0 


car. The officer fired 16 shots 
at him, and six struck Jones in 
the back, killing him. The two 
men, both black, were not 
related. 
Virginia authorities investi­gated, and Fairfax Commonwealth's Attorney Robert Horan Jr. announced Monday that Carlton Jones would not be charged. 
Horan said the shooting amounted to justifiable homi­cide b-ecause Prince Jones rammed the officer's car and the officer legitimately feared for his safety. 
Lee, the assistant attorney general. told the Howard stu­dents the FBI monitored the Fairfax County inquiry and will review its findings while conducting its own investiga­tion, Justice spokeswoman Kara Peterman said. 
Prince Jones and Carlton Jones are black. Horan is white. 
"We believe strongly if it was a white person who had been shot in that county, [the shoot­er] would have been prosecut­ed," said Ted Williams, a lawyer representing Prince Jones' family. 
PICTURE YOURSELF HERE TONIGHT You never know what will develop when 1200 members of the class of 2001 mix it up. $1 coVER !WITH cowoE 1D, MuST BE 211 MEETING WEEK•v AND LOTS OF 011-IER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO, I. I  
222 S. MICHIGAN -:-fl_/l\f>l[lJ~ souTH BEND ~0v:m\tF ~ 219.234.s200 ~~­0 l l Qg,Q C+ SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY L\.-lg,it~  
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERTMORE PICJURES@WWW.ACEPLACES.COM/HEARTlAND & EVENT LINE 219.251.2568  


VIEWPOINT 
page l 4 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Box Q, Nolf< D.unc. IN 4(,556 024 South Dining llall, Nom Dam<, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEf Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  8USINF~ MANAGf.R  
Norten Gillespie  Tint Lane  
Ass-r. MANAGING EDITOR  OrrnA'nONS MA.NAGER  
Christine Kraly  Brian Kessler  

NEWS FnrroR, Anne Marie Mattingly V1EWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smich SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
AIWER'llSING MANAGER: Pat Peters /w OtStGN MANAGfR: Chris Avila 5YnEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville W'F.B ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROi.i.ER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGE.RiGfNERAI. INFO... .........631-7471 FAX... ..............631-6927 ADVf'.RTISINC .. ................... 63 ]-6'100/8840 
obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF......... .. ....................631-4542 MAI>AGING ErnrnRIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFflCE......................................631-5313 NEWS...... ....................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu V11•.·wro1NT.. ... ············......................... 631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPOJll'S ........................................................631-4 543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
SCENE............. ........................... 63 l-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MA.Rv'S. ............................ 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO................ .......................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.. .............. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llob,erva.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carcoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

ar ,d rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

ruchives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

Aigust 1999 
staff 

POL CIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content. including advertisements, is not f,OYerned by policies of the administration ofeither instiiution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advcl'tiscmcnts based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible, Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistallt Managing Editor and department editors. Corr mentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Obs"rver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expn,ssion of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Lettrr, to the Editor must be signed dnd must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Obs,rorr policits rhould be dir,ct• ,d to Editor in Chi4Mi/r, Connolly. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
Thursday, October 26, 2000 


Answering objections to the living wage 
In an earlier column I wrote that the 
right to a living wage is, among other 
things, a right to life and I promised to 
reply to objections to the idea of a living 
wage. 
Objection No.I: The living wage cannot be mea­sured. 
Reply: There are at present a variety of measures of the living wage. The two basic types are the "food basket" approach and the multiplier approach. The former develops a full list of goods ­for instance, cloth­ing, food, housing ­in keeping with basic human digni­ty. The list is mini­mal. For instance, one measure of cloth­ing is three sets, "one for on, one for oIT (being cleaned) and one for good (for instance, church and weddings)." The food basket approach then figures what a living wage would be for a 48 hour work-week to purchase these basic goods in the region in question. 
The multiplier approach simply takes one item in the basket, usually food or nutritional intake and multiplies by a particular number to get a rough esti­mate of what it costs to live. The food basket approach provides more detail. the multiplier approach is easier to carry out. 
Objection No. 2: But there is no one formula on which everyone agrees. 
Reply: There is no truth at all on which everyone agrees, particularly econo­mists. Corporations moved production to third-world companies before everyone agreed to the practice. The key is to test the formulae over time to determine which are relatively trustworthy. As in any case of human action on a large scale, waiting for total agreement means that no action is taken, which may be the intent or this objection. Corporate repre­sentatives of the Fair Labor Association, for instance, squelched the issue of the 


living wage before there could even be 
any conversation about it. Once one 
enters into conversation and serious 
study on the matter, it becomes evident 
that relatively trustworthy formulae can 
be developed. Some -such as Ruth 
Rosenbaum's "Purchasing Power Index" 
or PP! -already have been developed 
and are being used in the field. 
Objection No. 3: But third world work­ers are already much better off because of first world supported manufacturing. Why press on to the question of a living wage? 
Reply: It is indeed the case that work­ers are frequently materially better off than before. By itself, this is good. But the way in which the objection is stated begs two points. First, human dignity requires being better off in more than material ways. This is what Paul VI means when he discusses "integral development." Popes and others have indicated concern about how industrial­ization and the urbanization it brings disrupts patterns of communal life that enhance human dignity. Second, being "better off' begs the question of whether the situation is adequate. 
An analogy helps with this latter point. If increased police foot patrol reduced violence in a neighborhood, the people there might be considered better off; would this mean that a policeman is jus­tified in not intervening (under the claim that the neighborhood is already better om when a person is actually being beat­en and when such intervention would help? 
Once corporations commit manufac­turing to a region, they bear the respon­sibility to do so in a way that respects the human dignity of the persons involved wherever this is possible. Given a variety of factors, including the profits of the companies and the income of it execu­tives, moving wages of the least paid towards a living wage is indeed possible. In ethics, "ought implies can." There is no obligation if lhe deed is impossible. In this case, the corporations, in conjunc­tion with others, 'can' despite claims that sweatshops are a "necessary stage" of economic devcloprnPnt. 
Objection No. 4: But paying a living wage would increase the price of' the product and therefore docrease demand, which in turn would mean fewer jobs for those we are making better off. 
Reply: Three points in reply. First, it is not necessarily the case that increase cost has to be passed on to the con­sumer. Other areas in the production­consumption chain can absorb the cost, for instance executive pay and perks. My recommendation with regard to Notre Dame's case is that Notre Dame initiate the process by agreeing to take less of a percentage of the profits if, for instance, Champion and adidas agree to use some of their profit margin towards a living wage for workers. If some of the cost is passed on to consumers, it will be less in this case than otherwise. 
Second, the increased cost to con­sumers in the case of the apparel ind us­try is minimal, a dollar or two on a $40 sweatshirt. Initial indications are that the college apparel market may well have what economists call "weak elasticity": consumers will still buy the product if there is a small mark-up such as might result from paying a living wage. 
Third, paying a living wage would probably reduce worker illness, absen­teeism and turnover, and thus increase productivity. It is not necessarily a direct trade-off between paying the living wage and increasing the cost of the product. This is a point made, for instance, by Business for Social Responsibility and the "Responsible Wealth" project of United for a Fair Economy, where businesses sign a covenant to pay a living wage. 
There are still more objections to pay­ing a living wage in the apparel industry, and I will take these up next time. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor in the theology department. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"The test ofa first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time. and still retain the ability to function." 
F. Scott Fitzgerald author 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Thursday, October 26, 2000 BSERVER page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Relationship discussions miss the point 
As a Junior at Notre Dame, I have in the last three years seen much ink spilled in these pages about our relationships. These have ranged in perspective from a Lyons senior saying that women ought to be dominatri­ces to a fellow Dillon man insisting upon free love to an otT-campus grad student instructing women on what to wear and how to act (and in the process assuming that women really go to ~D/SMC only for an MRS degree) and even to the comparisons of nice guys vs. sleaze­balls a few weeks ago. 
In fact, all of these perspectives have missed some very important issues about love and friendship that we as a Catholic community need to understand as we engage uponHfe's road. These arc aspects definitive of our identity -whether we shall indeed live up to what we say at Mass every Sunday. 
The first misconception, an unfortunately common one today, has to do with differences between liking and loving someone. It is far easier to like than to love people. It is easy to appreciate and do things for people who appeal to us or whom we find attractive. We oftentimes sav that those are whom we love and also that there are other people we love less or not at all. This, however, is a painful self-deception. Love is not the same as preference. Love is the embracing of oth­ers not just for what we find attractive but simply because we are committed to be good to them. It is not the goodness in them which links us together: it must also be the goodness in us. 
These kinds of commitments are foreign to our world. Our relationships are profoundly us-centered; we ask greedily, in a sense. without considering what is good in the grand scheme. In fact. the greater gifts in life are not those we asked for, but those that are beyond our present appreciation that make us grow in order to possess them. These kinds of commitments make available to us larger gifts, unrequested ones lhat make us grow larger too. Love, real, self-effacing love. creates bonds; at the end, we sh.all cherish most not mere relationships but these bonds. 
Many people live in "meaningful relationships" that are not honds. We have many friendships in college that might last a lifetime; these, too, are not bonds. A bond, as a friend once told me, is when you have a handicapped child and .you don't ask yourself how you're going to cherish the child: you already cherish lhe child. When the phone rings and someone tells you that another is hurt, you don't think "shall I go?" but rather you don't think, and say 'Tm coming." 
It is not meant to be that all of our relations appear as bonds. Such would create an insincere atmosphere. We must though have some bonds, some real ones that have lasting claim upon us. Failure to make them means that we shall turn into heartless consumers of other people. These bonds are usually with someone of the opposite sex, or the very best same-sex friendships. The potential for these bonds. then, must be the light in which we see each other. We are too often blinded by the demands of our hormones so that we ignore the more subtle and serious demands of our souls. 
When we of the Notre Dame community stop post­party "hook-ups," stop relating on the basis of "liquid' courage," stop pasting naked women to our walls and stop thinking about people in terms of the benefits they provide for us, something frightening might happen. We might stop seeing others as objects and just start to be real people. · 
Nathaniel H:llJ-nan 
JL!llior 
Dillon Hall October 20, 2000 

Candidates failing· to address young voters 
For some reason I feel like my voice isn't being heard. Maybe it's because politicians think that young people don't vote or care about the issues and that it is, therefore, not important enough to address any of the issues that young people care about. 
Just look at this year's election. While both Gore and Bush claim to be look­ing to lend a hand and an ear to the youth of America, even marching their own children, family mem­bers and popular entertainers before crowds to make it seem like they care about young vot­ers, neither candidate really addresses many of the issues that young voters would like Lo sec addressed. 
When you open up the news­paper and read a story about the latest speech or rally by either of the candidates, you will most likely see the follow­ing main issues being brought up: Social Security, health insurance, education and pre­scription drug plans,.only two of which (education and health insurance) could be considered to be of interest to voters in the 18-25 year-old block. In addition, the candi­dates, when addressing these issues, further alienate young voters by aiming their arguments at older voters, instead of addressing them in ways in which these issues affect younger voters. They instead chose to focus and deliver their messages towards what they see as the key demographic in this elec;tion: the middle-aged woman. 

Many of the issues that young voters care about receive little to no attention or argu­ment. I know that when I have political discussions with my friends, we talk about issues such as the Internet and its regulation, globalization, free market 
economics, and the environment instead of prescrip­tion drugs and Social Security. Why is this? Well, since I won't be getting Social Security for another five decades (or possibly never), I don't really care about it. I care more about whether or not Napster is going to remain legal or whether air pollution in Texas is being reduced and I am sure that a lot of other young voters will agree with me. Politicians are so distanced from young voters that it may actually 
create a generation of voters who will continue these apathetic vot­ing practices throughout there 
lives. 
One of the things that I find amusing and ironic in this world is that the young people of my generation are consid­
ered the most valuable con­suming group, so much so that advertisers and television executives cater to the passing whims of this audience, yet we are still considered the least valuable voting group. In fact, our voice is almost completely 
silenced by the generations of citizens older than us. Why is it that we can have so much 

power in one respect and yet so little in another? Why is it that our generation can make its voice heard when it is at the mall or the store yet not when entering a voting booth? Why doesn't our generation stand up for itself and make its voice heard? I feel like my voice isn't being heard, but at least I am trying. Please try to be heard as well. 
Erin English sophomore Pasquerilla Hall Easr October 25, 2000 

Voting for third parties sends message 
Once again in a national election the major parties have given us a choice between two uninspiring candi­dates. The majority of the people don't feel strongly about either one with the exception that they know they don't want Gore (or Bush) and so will vote for the other just to keep the worst choice out. So many people are fearful that if they vote for Buchanan, Gore will be elected. What a terrible reason to vote -not because you like a candidate but because you like his opponent less. 
Please realize that the last Democrat to win Indiana when running for president was Lyndon Johnson, 36 years ago and the one before him was FDR in 1936. All the polls show that Indiana is solidly in Bush's camp­so much so that Gore won't waste any money cam­paigning and Bush doesn't have to. So if you strongly feel that the Republicans have been giving lip service only to pro-life issues with the notion that you have nowhere else to go (Bush does not see a way to reverse the FDA's horrible decision about RU-486 and doesn't think the country is ready for a human rights amend­ment and would not have a pro-life litmus test for Supreme court Justices). 
If you disagree with a party that is in favor of NAFTA, GATI and the WTO coddling to the second evil empire (76 percent of a Journal-Gazette poll did not like our China trade deal) then you should vote for Buchanan. Buchanan is for America first, Bush will still carry Indiana, but if Buchanan gets a respectable percentage it will send a message to the Republican party. 
Vote positive, vote for something you believe in ­that you know is the right course for our country ­Vote Buchanan. 
Paul Reszel Forr Wavnc, Ind. October 25, 2000 

Upset about the resurgence ofviolence in the Middle East? Do you feel chat our political party system discourages third party candidates? ­Did Senator Leiberman's speech change your opinion of the Gore/Leiberman ticket? Explain your views! Write a letter to observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu 
M 
c~ne E 
page 16 Thursday, October 26, 2000 
============================================================================================= 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'FOrward' suffers from sentimental overkill 
"pay it forward."

By CASEY K. McCLUSKEY 
The plan is very simple: Do a big

Scene Movie Critic 
favor for someone that they can't do 
for themselves. The person who 

Audiences have been waiting a long receives this favor then pays the favor time lur Kevin Spacey·s next film and, 
forward to three other people. rather unforurnatelv. "Pav ll Forward" is not than paying the person back for the a film worth waiting for. Director kindness. Mimi Leder becomes the queen of 
Trevor puts his plan into action. manipulation and thus beginning the contrived plot devices "Pay It Forward" chain of paying it 
and makes one of the 
forward. sap pi l'St and most 
The concept of the sentimental films to 

film is an intriguing ever come out of 
one because it relies llollywood. 
on the notion of the 

EugPne Simonet out offive shamrocks 
goodness of human (Kevin Spacey, 

nature. It takes a 

"Ame:-ican Beauty"). 
very special director 

is a ~. C V (' n t h g r ade Director: Mimi Leder to Lake this feel-goodSocial Studies 
Starring: Kevin Spacey, Haley concept and make it 

teacht1r who gives his 
into a film that is

students a special JoelOsmentandHelenHunt Photo courtesy of Warner Bros. Pictures
devoid of overly sen­

assigr1111cnt on the Helen Hunt, Haley Joel Osment and Kevin Spacey (far right) star in "Pay it
ti mental emotion. 

first day of school: come up with a Forward," a feel-good drama with too many plot contrivances. 
Leder ("Deep Impact") is not such a plan to change the world and put it 
director. into a1:tion. 
The only saving grace in this film is film to be in. Helen Hunt plays If there is nothing of interest to see 
One boy in the class, Trevor (Haley 
the acting by the two lead males, Trevor's mom and, although she"is not in the movie theaters, go to the video 
Joel Osment, "The Sixth Sense"), 
Spacey and Osment. It is disappoint­as annoying as she normally is on the store and rent a film that is worth takes this assignment very seriously 
ing, however, that these two highly big screen, she should've stuck to your time. "Pay It Forward" most cer­and comes up with the concept of 
respected actors would choose such a television. tainly is not. 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Gere's performance can't save 'Dr.T' from its women 

''Dr.T .I and the Women" stars Richard Gere as a popular gynecc,loglst who must deal with the daily appointments of upper middle class women. Robert Altman's latest film fails In every r·espect, save for Gere's understated performance. 
that only afCTicts upper class thing and everyone and goes to women who have had "every­see Bree. However, Bree's thing they need ... [and] arc intentions have already been loved too much." Making up made clear (this is somewhat diseases to stimulate a movie's surprising for a Hunt charac­
ByJUDE SEYMOUR Scene Movie Critic 
In many ways it is harder to write a review about a terrible movie than a great movie. Questions abound. Is it the revie'v\ er who has missed the point, or the movie? In this case, the movie must be fault­ed. It is not some sort of ego­tistic romp that has led to this conclusion; it is instead the movie's underlying premise to insult the moviegoer's basic intelligence (among other things). 
"This is the most ridiculous 
thing I've ever heard," Connie 
Travis (Tara Reid of 
"American Pie") remarks 
about halfway through the 
film. She is obviously not talk­
ing about the movie's structure 
or what the film is asking the 
average moviegoer to believe, 
but instead about some 
nonessential item of daily life 
for the Travis family. 
The Traviscs are an upper­middle class family residing in Dallas. Glued to their malls, too fragile for rain, too jealous and petty to be happy for one another, their shallowriess seeps through like a bad archetype of all upper class women. 
When Kate Travis (Farrah Fawcett) contracts a mY5teri­ous ailment, life hardly seems to skip a beat. The audience hears the concern coming out of each of her two daughters' mouths, but it is hard to believe. They have cheerlead­ing and jobs at the Conspiracy Museum to attend to. 
In the case of Aunt Peggy (Laura Oern, "Jurassic Park"). overseeing cookies in all the right apparel seems more important than Kate's recov­ery. It's like the worst scene has been lifted out of "Clueless," where what people wear becomes more important than who people are. 
The only one who seems to care is Dr. Sully Travis (Richard Gere, "Pretty Woman"), who blames himself for his wife's illness. 
The illness itself is quite unbelievable. For the money Travis is probably forking over, the diagnosis is oddly based on a Greek mythological legend: Kate's illness is called "Hestia's disease," a disease 

plot seems like bad form. 
Dr. T tries to remain happy through this upsetting time. That is until he meets Bree (Helen Hunt, "As Good As It Gets"), a golf pro at Dr. T's country club. "A wet girl is bad luck," all of Dr. T's friends try to warn him. He is not listening. 
Meeting Bree in a rainstorm on several occasions, Dr. T has found 
his femme fatale. She wines and dines him until he decides to sleep with her, breaking his faithful bond with his wife. Even Lyle Lovett seems to be trying to warn Dr. Travis. The song Bree slips on, before seducing Dr. Travis, croons, "One bad mistake can turn your world around/ you just don't seem to be yourself1/ it's such a shame because you ·ve been so good up to now." 
As soon as things seem to be on an upswing for Or. Travis, they quickly hit unbelievable lows. His daughter's (Kate Hudson, "Almost Famous") marriage is a sham: she is in a lesbian tryst with her maid of honor, Marilyn (Liv Tyler, "Armageddon"). It rains on the outdoor wedding. And his coworker. Carolyn (Shelly Long), tries to seduce him in a weak moment. 
He runs away from every­
ter): she is play­ing the field

"Dr.T & the 
with everyone. The ending is

Women" 
ridiculous and insulting. It defies laws of physics, believ­ability, and is a

out of five shamrocks 
sham in terms of proper story 

Director: Robert Altman Ii~~ str~~~~-~-.s.. Starring: Richard Gere, case, it is more frustrating to
Helen Hunt, Laura Dern, 
watch a movie

Shelly Long, Tara Reid, Liv 
continue 

Tyler, Kate Hudson and towards its end­ing than it
Farrah Fawcett 
would be to see 

the last fifteen minutes of the film cut, leaving the audience to speculate as to what happens. 
Richard Gere is surprisingly the only bright spot in the movie. An actor who has turned in more than his fair share of flat performances, he comes through in this role. 
The only other remarkable aspect is the live birth of a baby. It was captivating, clear­er than a Discovery channel special and breathtaking to watch. 
The rest of the movie lan­guishes in half-sketched char­acters, moronic plot ideas and the annoying shallowness of all the women. 
Something bad should hap­pen to all of these characters for all their triteness; unfortu­nately, history seems to project that upper middle class women like this will continue to have the world cater to them. 
M 
c~ne E 
Thursday, October 26, 2000 page 17 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Allen and Oldman act out in 'Contender' 
captivated Lurie, a former film 

By JUDE SEYMOUR 
critic for ABC radio. He stepped Scene Movie Criric 
down from criticism to v.Titc o1nd direct "The Contender," a movie Only twice in reality. and once he pitched as a vehicle for Joan in the movies, has there been a Allen to star in. He cornered Allen hearing to determine a possible at an awards presentati.on, and replacement for the vice presi­then got ~ridges, Oldman, Sam 
dent. Gerald Ford chose Nelson Elliott and Christian Slater to 
A. Rockefoll~r. and a hearing was commit based chartered to on Allen's determine if "The Contender" acceptance.
he would b0 a The movie 
suilable celebrates rcplacenlfmt. 
these casting In the "The decisious. Contender," Joan Allen 
out offive shamrocks

President ("facc/OIT"), a Jackson Evans talented actor (Jeff !fridges) with a pletho­n o rn i n a t·e s Director: Rod Lurie ra of great 
Senator I,ainc Starring: Joan Allen, Gary supporting Hanson (Joan roles, shines
Oldm,m, Jeff Bridges, Christian

Allen) to as the lead. replace his Slater, William Petersen and Sam E q u a-1 I y 

deceased vice 
Elliot

president part­ner. 
A house subcommittee, led by the conservative Sheldon Runyon (Gary Oldman, "The Fifth Element") is appointed to investi­gate every detail of the Senator's life. In the process. they uncover pictures of a college "gang-bang" that the Senator might have par­ticipated in as a freshman. \Nhen the charges are brought forth in the name of protecting the nation's moral interests, the Senator refuses to comment. 
Runyon and the subcommittee look to "obliterate a life," perma­nently soiling the reputation of Hanson while simultaneously promoting their choice for vice president, Senator Jack Hathaway (William Petersen of "Fear"). 
The story behind this film cen­ters on writer and director Rod Lurie. Joan Allen's acting often 
impressive is 
Jeff Bridges 
("The Big Lebowski") an actor who has mastered not only speech but also facial expressions that tell much more than words. 
Gary Oldman outshines them all, though, in an outfit that reminds at least one person of Max Wright, the Tanner father on the late TV series "ALF." Oldman's pacing and delivery of lines is not only impressive but also true acting prowess. 
Christian Slater is hopelessly outmatched and is less convincing as a wide-eyed congressman. \Nhen Allen's character calls him "too young to understand," one wonders if she was only talking about his character's attitude toward politics. 
Besides spectacular acting, the story's plot is quite thorough. Lurie is able to satisfy both the political story line and embrace some of a movie's keys to success: sex as a plot device and suspense as plot advancement. 
Lurie introduces political "spins" that help along the movie's plot: a ·girl's death makes Senator Hathaway an unlikely hero; a Washington Post article submitted by Runyon makes the Friday afternoon edition, giving the public a weekend of specula­tion, thereby threatening to ruin . Senator Hanson. 
The movie's tension is based on the sexual indiscretion. "They caught you being a human," the President quips. He insists that Senator Hanson should stick to her intuition and "refuse to be embarrassed." Everyone else is not convinced. Sam Elliott ("The Big Lebowski"), as the President's political strategist, feels the pri­vate life of Senator Hanson became the public's concern once she was thrust into the spotlight. Hanson refuses to answer the House's inquiries about the sexu­al recklessness because it is "beneath her dignity" and a dou­ble standard for society to pro­mote a man's sexual life but con­demn a woman's. 

Unfortunately, the movie turns 
-

to a weak, Frank Capra-style end­ing to solve its tension. Hanson reveals what actually happened that night back in the fraternity house and the President delivers an impassioned speech to the House that reminds one of Knute Rockne instead of Bill Clinton. It does not hurt the overall effect of the movie's 126-minute running time, however. 
For more impassioned speech­es and political drama, many will find Frank Capra's 1939 movie "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" to be a satisfying counterpart to "The Contender." 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Despite its 'SNL' origins, 'Ladies Man' garners some laughs 
or even a decent plot. But, then again, producer and only friend, Julie. She have been "victimized" by Phelps. In 
By JEFFREY Q. IRISH 
it wasn't made with the intention of loves Phelps, but he does not see this an ensuing scene, the help group does 
Scene Movie Critic 
being a good film. It was made as an because he's too busy trying to attract a horrible musical knockoff of a "West extension of a "Saturday Night Live" "bus stop skanks." At times, he seems Side Story" song that wastes 10 min­
Let's get one thing straight. "The skit with the intention of getting some downright obsessed with bus stop utes of everyone's time. This scene Ladies Man" is not a good film. In good laughs and, for the most part, skanks. utterly kills the fact, as far as filmmaking goes, it that is what this movie does. In another funny movie's momentum. sucks. It doesn't have well-developed Like the "SNL" skit of the same part of the film. "The Ladies Man" It seems as though characters, good directing or acting, name, "The Ladies Man" is about a Phelps recommends other critics have 
male slut named Leon Phelps (Tim to a lonely caller, only given "The Meadows) who seems to be stuck in a "Take off yo panties 
Ladies Man" one or different decade. Much like Mike and hang out at the two stars. Roger Myer's Austin Powers character, Leon bus station -that is Ebert, of the 
out offive shamrocks 

is loveable womanizer who doesn't what I would do if I Chicago-Sun Times, mean to hurt the women he does the were looking for gave it one star and nasty with. some luvtn'." spent the rest of the
Director: Reginald Hudlin
The plot (or lack thercoD revolves When Phelps is column bashing around Phelps' radio talk show "The finally fired from the Starring: Tim Meadows, Karyn every film "SNL" Ladies Man." On the show, people call has made. Although
show. Julie gets him Parsons, Tiffani-Amber Thies$en and 
in to get Phelps' advice on sex and back on his feet and "Coneheads," relati onships. in search of a new Will Ferrell "Stuart Saves His 
Phelps' advice almosl never works job. Anyone can fig-Family, "It's Pat: the and provides much of the film's come­ure out what happens from here. Movie," and "The Blues Brothers" are -­dy. He is also so na'ive that he doesn't One of the many women Phelps some of the worst comedies in cine­understand that he can't use foul lan­sleeps with is the wife (Tiffani-Amber matic history, "A Night at the guage on the air. Thiessen. of "Beverly Hills 90210" Roxbury" and "Ladies Man" deserve 
Whenever Phelps advises a couple fame) of a Greco-Homan wrestler some credit. to have sex in a unique position or in named Brian Delune (played by the While "Roxbury" failed at the box the most uncomfortable of places, the always-funny Will Ferrell. also of office, it is a truly hilarious film and is station is fined. "SNL"). receiving its due credit in video sales 
Karyn Parsons (Hillary from "The Delune is so angry that he forms a and rentals. Expect a similar future Fresh Prince of Bel Air") plays Phelps' help group for other men whose wives for "The Ladies Man." 
-------_J 

page 18 Thursday, October 26, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 

Los Angeles glides past Anaheim with 6-2 victory 
ing, getting his second goal for the season. Johnson scored after league. Sabres defeated the Carolina
A•sociated Pre.• 

Los Angeles midway through the Bill Houldcr's shot was deflected Per Svartvadet, Donald Audette Hurricanes. The win was the first opening period when the Kings right to Johnson. and Jarrod Skalde, with an of the season for llasek and 
had a 5-on-3 advantage. One day after giving up four empty-netter, scored for the snapped Bulfalo's live-game win­
LOS ANGELES 

Los Angeles finished with 35 Lhird-period goals in a tie with Thrashers. less streak. The loss was
Bryan Smolinski scored the go­

shots. Vancouver, Dunham stopped 39 Doug Weight scored the lone Carolina's third straight. 
ahead goal to start a three-goal 

The Kings had lost a 4-2 lead in shots. The Predators are 2-2-2 in goal for the Oilers. "My teammates. they made my
outburst in the second period 

the third period of their game their last six games. Rhodes has been the goalie of job much easier," Ilasek said.
and the Los Angeles Kings skated 

against the Ducks on Monday Colorado had its chances in a record in all of Atlanta's games, "It's better for me, for any goalie, 
to a 6-2 victory over the Anaheim 

night in Anaheim, but Stumpe! scoreless firsl period. Durham playing aU but 45 minutes ahead if you can be up one or two goals
Mighty Ducks on Wednesday 

scored in overtime to give Los stopped Alex Tanguay from point of Milan 1-lnilicka, and I felt great." 
nighl. 

Angeles the win. blank early on and got his glove Rhodes was solid all-night. He Buffalo coach Lindy Ruff said
Luc Hobitaille had three assists 

up at the last instant to keep a denied Chad Kilger on a break­the early spurt helped not just
for the Kings. who beat Anaheim 

rebound attempt by Joe Sakic away in the second period and the goalie, but the entire team.
for the second time in three days. Avalanche 2, Predators 1 

from crossing the goal line. gloved Hyan Smyth's wrist shot "I thought we came out real
Smolinski snapped a 1-1 tie Peter Forsberg scored a power-· 

Roy faced two fewer shots, but from the slot with five minutes hard, moved the puck extremely 
when he scored 15 seconds into play goal in overtime after Chris 

nearly was beaten by a shot he left in the third. well and had everybody going," 
the period, poking in a shot over Drury tied it in the final two min­

never saw. Timonen flipped 1:1 Svartvadet gave the Thrashers Huff said. "Everybody got
sprawling goaltender Dominic utes as Colorado extended its 

wrist shot from the right circle a 1-0 lead sevl"n minutes in. He involved in the game and with
Houssel from close range. Nelson unbeaten streak to nine games 

that hit Roy in the chest. found his own rebound on a shot them playing (Tuesday] we want­
Emerson set up the score, sliding with a victory over Nashville. 

The Avalanche stepped up the that handcuffed Edmonton goalie ed to get off to a quick start." 
a pass to Smolinski. parked on Forsberg extended his goal­

.... pressure in the second period, Joaquin Gage and his second The llurricanes lost to San
thti left. side of the crease. scoring streak to live games with 

outshooting Nashville 19-2. The attempt trickled over the goal Jose. 3-2, on Tuesday night. 
Emerson gave the Kings a 3-1 his eighth goal over that stretch. 

Predators wen-i preoccupied hav­line. In addition to their two early
luad jusl 3:18 later with his third He also has six assists in his last 

ing to kill oIT three power plays. Audette made it 2-0 with a goals. the Sabres outshot
goal of the season. beating seven games. 

Dunham was up to the task. power-play goal in the second Carolina 11-3 in the opening
Boussfll with a 20-footcr over his With Kimmo Timonen in the 

turning aside Milan Hejduk's period. Hay Ferraro, screening period. The first goal came when
left shoulder. penalty box, Ray Bourque took a 

wrist shot in the opening minutes Gage,. knocked down Steve Hob H.ay put a shot on goal that
Steven Hcinprecht padded the slap shot from the slot that 

and then making successive Staios' point shot and got the was stopped by goaliti Tyler
lead five minutes later with his Forsberg deflected past Mike 

saves on Tanguay in the final puck on net. Audette pounced on Moss.

fourth goal. giving Los Angeles Dunham with 1:02 left in the 

minute. Tanguay's attempts the rebound and lifted a shot The puck rebounded off and,
four in Lhe first 13 shots against extra period. It was Bourque's 

came on a breakaway attempt, high into an open side. after Erik Rasmussen was pulled
Houssel. who got the start while second assist of the night and his 

first swiping the shot into the cor­Audette, who has seven goals down going for the puck, Hay fol­
Guy llobert had tho night off. 1,529th career point, moving him 

ner and then with his stick after and seven assists. has been in on lowed his own shot with a 15-l'oot
The Ducks. meanwhile. had past Boston's Paul Coffey for first 

Tanguay skated down the loose 14 of Atlanta's 20 goals this sea­slap shot that got past Moss to
taken just four shots to that point place among defensemen. 

puck. son and has recorded points in put Buffalo up 1-0 just 3:18 in.
and finished the game with only Chris Drury got a tying goal 

Before the goals by Drury and all seven games. The goal was the first of the sea­
18. with an end-to-end rush with

l Johnson, the Predators had the Weight made it 2-1 just 1 :05 son for Hay.
They did not get a shot off until 1:52 left in regulation. Drury 

best chance in the third period. in to the third. He took a pass A minute and a half later,
! . 11 :44 into the game, but Paul skated from his own zone past 
With Adam Deadmarsh off for from Georges Laraque behind Buffalo added to its lead. James 
I Kariya made the first one count. three Predators and around 
interference, Patric Kjelberg the net, skated out in front and Patrick got the puck to Doug
I Kariya, skating alone down the defenseman Robert Lintner. With 
I came in alone but had his back­banked the puck off a Thrashers Gilmour, who sent a perfect cen­
left side, slammed a 25-footer Lintner draped on him, Drury

I hander blocked by Roy in front of defenseman past H.hodes. tering pass in front of' the net to a
past Jamie Storr to even it at 1-1. muscled a shot past Nashville 

the crease. streaking Chris Gratton. Gratton
It was his third goal. goalie Mike Dunham. 

beat Moss to put Buffalo up 2-0. 
Hob Blake and Glen Murray Patrick Hoy stopped 19 shots as Sabres 4, Hurricanes 1 
The early lead helped llasek's
each scored their fourth goals of the Avalanche extended their Thrashers 3, Oilers 1 Whatever was wrong with 
confidence. The 35-year-old
the season as the Kings opened a unbeaten streak to nine games Damian Rhodes made 27 saves Dominik Hasek, some early scor­
goalie -a notoriously slow
6-1 lead in the third period. Steve {7-0-2). as Atlanta beat Edmonton for ing by his teammates seemed to 
starter -has struggled so far
Hucchin scored for Anaheim, his Greg Johnson gave the their first win of the season. fix it. 
this season, with a 0-4-I record
second goal of the season, with Predators a 1-0 lead when he The victory for the Thrashers Buffalo scored two goals in the 
and a 3.40 goals against average 
2:49 remaining. found an open net at 15:02 of the (1-3-3) left Florida (0-3-2-2) as game's first five minutes and 
coming in. 

Josef Stumpe! opened the scor-third period for his first goal of the only winless team in the Hasek made 30 saves as the 
The Observer accep1s classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 f.m. a11he Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nex1-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds mus1 be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conient without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

I NEED 4 BC TIX TOGETHER. HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 5-br Officials Needed Spring Break 2001 Book group of Molly...it's not our day. CAN PAY ONLY $200. S 1000/month 2) 4-br $11 DO/month Officials Needed for Men and 15 and GO FREEi Book before LOST & FOUND CALL 243-1621. 3)3-br $650/month. WeOII make Women Basketball. This is a great Nov. 3 lor FREE Meals! Visit us at Actually I don't think it's mine either almost any changes to the houses. opportunity to earn great money. sunsptashtours.com or call for tree really. 
NEED AF TICKETS, call with price Call Bill at 675-0776. Contact the RecSports office (Peter info@ 1-800-426-7710 FOUND 634-3068, ask for Dyllan Shoop or Jeff Walker) @ 631-6100 Yesterday wasn't -today doesn't TREK BIKE in parking lot one week Students Wanted! Alum-owned or stop by the office in the Rolfs 088 Ford Taurus, 6-cyl., stereo look like like it. ago. Faculty wants to lrade 2 Air Force 2stry 5-6 bdrm, 2 bath New carpet, Sports Recreation Center today. w/cassette player. Well maintained CALL MA TT 4-4894. G.A. tor 2 B.C. G.A. 631-6644 appliances, washer-dryer, furnace• You can also e-mail us at rec-by responsible female. $2,000/obo. Oh well. 
roof, & Security. Huge yard. 1 blk N. sport@nd.edu Lv. msg at 291-5366. LOST on campus at Stanford game I need two tickets for the Boston of Club 23. $1375 inc. until. Call Where is my twin? I haven't seen 1 i/2 inch thick gold bracelet College game. Contact Travis Jason 240-0322. 1996 PONTIAC GRAND PRIX SE her in about 12 hours and I really REWARD call Carol at 312-946-319-241-1082. 4-door. AT, White/Gray, 57K miss her 
NOTICES

1800 One room for the Air Force game. All Power Options, Premium Audio I NEED 4 TIX TO AIR FORCE-$120/nt., shared bath Less than 2 w/CD Changer. $8,250. How much should I bet Heather's TOGETHER OR tN PAIRS! miles from campus, 277-8340. COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 272-5492 on the floor when I get back? PLEASE HELPI CALL KATE @ 300,000 + private sector scholar-
TICKETS 

634-3697 NICE HOMES FOR NEXT ships available for undergraduate Not as much as I bet Sean which I SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND. and graduate students at accredit-am evidently going to lose
PERSONAL
WANTED PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS. GREAT AREA 277-3097. ed colleges in the Usaregardless of ND FOOTBALL TKTS BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219 their GPA, finances, age or citizen-Good luck on your test girls • I know 289-9280 289-8048 2520 sq. h. home for sale or lease ship. Write or call tor FREE intor-Quality Copies, Quickly! you'll be hne. 
to buy in Knollwood. Mocing mation and application We're open early, late & weekends I need 5 BC tickets. 2 AF GA TIX FOR SALE SECTION 5174k. 277-7992 Scholarship Database Service THE COPY SHOP Nat when do you get off wcirk/ Or Good offers. 25. CALL CHRIS 634-4751. PO Box 432 La Fortune Student Center are you permanently out at busi• Please call Notre Dame, IN 46556-0432 ness? 274-0829 NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE Barnyard8961@hotmail.com Quality Copies, Quickly! 
WANTED

GA'S. PLEAES CALL MANY ARO 1 -800-936-3706 T • you get rid of that bug yet -or is 
SELLING AT 1-800·638-6963, X 6093. CAL WORK THE POLLS ELECTION Marquez still fluttering around? \lD FOOTBALL TKTS WILL BE RETURNED ASAP Need childcare in our Granger DAY, NOV.7 251-1570 home, Tues. and Thurs. Must have 6AM-6PM Molly could you take care of that 
transportation. Call 271-1935. FOR SALE PAY $75 Orlando thing? 
1/ICTORY TKTS YOU MUST BE 1 SYRS OLD, A 3UY'SELL'TRADE FOR RENT NANNY WANTED: SURVIVE SPRING BREAK 20011 RESIDENT OF ST. JOSEPH I am very very tired \lD FOOTBALL 25-35 hrs/week. Contact Krista @ ALL THE HOTTEST DESTINA-COUNTY, IN. AND A REGIS­232-0964 ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE 425-793-1208 for more info or email TIONS/HOTELS! CAMPUS SALES TEAED VOTER IF YOU ARE I just want to go to sleep. Nww.victorytickets.com ANO CLOSE TO CAMPUS KROBKE@CERWER.COM REPRESENTATIVES AND STU-INTERESTED, CALL JOHN 
http.//mmmrentals.homepage.com/ DENT ORGANIZATIONS WANT-COURT AT VOTERS REGISTRA-Until tomorrow night which will 3UY/SELL ND TICKETS email:mmmrentals@aol.com COACH: Need Jr. High boys bas• EDI VISIT inter-campus com or call TION, 235-9530 probably happen knowing me. 273-3911 232-2595 ketball coach. Responsible, 1-800-327-6013 
dependable student or grad to CassEhang in there. We love you. I think that is fine l~D FOOTBALL TIX WANTED Thal Pretty Place, Bed and coach 7-Bth grade basketball B-#1 Spring Break 2001 NCancun, AM. -232-2378 Breaklast Inn has space a11ailable team, Nov. 13-Feb 23, !or south Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, CollThumbs up !or big bad Joe. Good n1ght/Goodmorning. 
P.M. -288-2726 for tootbalVparent wknds. 5 Rooms side elementary school, located Florida & S.Padre. Reliable TWA Next stop, White Housel 
with private baths, $80-$115, near Scottsdale Mall on Miami flights. Best Prices. Eam $$$ or Who's getting excited for the l~D FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Street. Must be available for prac-FREE trips-call tor details! I'm so mean. In fact, I'm so mean Redfords? AM. -232-2378 Toll Road, Exit 1/.107, 1-800-418-!ices Mon-Thurs from 2:20-3:15. 1.800.SURFS. UP www.studentex-that 1"11 take you down. Look out. I I' M. -288·2726 9487 Game schedule varies. press.~orn take everybody down. Gm. I aml 

Thursday, October 26, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS 

PGA TOUR 
Beckman closes in on secure spot 
Associated Press 
Lt\KE BUENA VISTA, Fla. 
Cameron Beckman, who studied art at Texas Lutheran, is more like a mathematician these days. 
Late Wednesday, after finish­ing his final practice round for the National Car Rental Classic at Disney World, Beckman sat at a table and shifted his eves from the PG!\ Tour money ·list to the prize distribution chart. 
Beckman is 136th on the money list. He needs to make about $110,000 in the next two weeks to secure a spot on the tour next year. 
Thumbing through the pages, he ratlles off the names of the 11 players between him between him and the cutoff. Only the top 125 keep their cards. 
"( haven't taken a week off since the PGA," said Beckman, who will tee it up Thursday in his 10th consecutive tourna­ment. "I've never played that many in a row. If l were play­ing poorly, it might make a dif­ference." 
There is only one Tiger Woods. the defending champi• on at Disney who can become golrs first $10 mHiion man if he wins the final three tourna­ments of the year. 
r 
"I haven't taken a week offsince the PGA. I've never played that many 
in a row. " 
Cameron Beckman golfer 
There arc plenty of guys like Beckman, who come down the stretch counting how much each missed putt is worth, crunching numbers and trying to figure out what they have to do and how much they have to win to finish in the top 125. 
Last week in Tampa, Beckman three-putted the final hole to finish in a tie for 19th. He figured it cost him $15,000. 
"The last round, l'm giving away two shots every w·eek," he moaned. "That's cost me about $500,000. But where I've come from, so far out of it nine weeks ago, I know I'm closer. I'm tired, but I can't sleep. I can't wait to play. I want to make it." 
Ten weeks ago in Canada. the 30-ycar-old Beckman mailed in his application for the toughest tournament in golf -PGA Tour qualifying school, which features six rounds of do-or-die competi­tion. Only about the top 40 get exempt status on tour, while the rest go to the minor leagues or play only in those tournaments that have room. 
Beckman, injured earlier in the year, had about $70,000 at the time and appeared to have no choice but a return to Q­school. 
"For some reason. I freed myself up," he said. 
He has finished in the top 30 in six of his last seven tourna­ments, picking up $217.,560 ­more than he won all of last year as a rookie -and now has a chance to do what he never dreamed possible just two months ago. 
Beckman is not alone, and it's not just the top 125. 
Rocco Mediate, Scott Hoch and Tom Scherrer will be among those trying to play well enough -and earn enough -to finish in the top 30 on the money list and get into the $5 million Tour Championship next week in Atlanta. 
For Grant Waite and Scott Dunlap, the next two weeks are critical for them to finish in top 40, which comes with an invitation to the Masters. 
Those in Beckman's category include Dan Forsman, who has played the PGA Tour for 18 years and has never failed to keep his card. 

Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
The TIAA-CREF Advantage. 


Year in and year out, employees at education and  
research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF.  THE TIAA-CREF  'i  
And for good reasons:  ADVANTAGE·  ..  
• Easy d1versif1catic,n among a range of expertly managed iund,  Investment Expertise  '  
• A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service  Low Expenses  
• A strong commitment to low expenses  Customized  
• Plus, afull range of flexible retirement income options  Payment Options  
For decZJdes, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff  
at over 9,000 campuses across the country ,rwest for­ Expert Guidance  
and enioy-successful retirements.  
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple.  .  
Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF.  
ii  Ensuring the future for those who shape it.'"  1.800.842.2776 www. tiaa-cref. org  

For more complete inform;ition on our securities products, plea,e caU 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIM Real Estate var'.able annu1t1es • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tu1t1on savings agreemen:s. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
page 19 

OLYMPICS 
Blake resigns am.idst ­criticisin of lllethods 
Associated Press 
COLORADO SPRINGS 

Norm Blake, a corporate turnaround artist hired nine months ago to overhaul the 
U.S. Olympic Committee, is resigning amid criticism that his techniques were better suited to the business world than the athletic field. 
"I always had the conviction of trying to do the right things for our athletes," Blake said. "Nonetheless, I can assure you there are people that think I moved too fast or I was too abrupt or I could have communicated better. Some of those criticisms may in fact be valid." 
Blake, the first chief execu­tive officer in the 106-year history of the USOC, stood by his ambitious plan despite the resistance to a corporate model that called for sweep• ing staff cuts and funding reform. 
"The organization deserves the opportunity to re-examine its commitment to change," he said. "I've freed them of the burden of having to worry about Norm Blake." 
Blake cut staff, proposed slashing money for sports in which Americans rarely win medals and tied USOC funding for national sports governing bodies to how many medals are won. Critics said the "money-for-medals" plan was unfair to smaller sports such as archery and table tennis. 
"I think the USOC for a long time has been more process• oriented than a business model, and that creates some conflicts," USA Gymnastics President Bob Colarossi said. "I have a tremendous amount of respect for Norm. I am sorry to see him leave. I think he was a breath of fresh air." 
Athlete representatives on the USOC's executive commit­tee were angered by some of Blake's moves, saying they did not have enough say in the decision-making process. They considered but rejected a ccnsurn motion in August. 
"It's always challenging, particularly in an organization like the USOC, to do what he set out to do," said Paul George, a USOC vice presi­dent. "I think for Norm this is the right decision. I think he was getting very frustrated." 
Blake took over the USOC in February after a bribery scan­dal enveloped the Salt Lake City Games. He was expected to make the not-for-profit organization more like a pro­fessional sports league, with a paid staff rather than volun­teers handling training, team selection and other issues for 
U.S. teams in the Olympics and Pan American Games. Blake will remain in place until a successor is picked and trained. There is no timetable for his replacement, and Olympic officials were confi­dent his resignation would not hinder preparation for the Winter Games. 
"We do need someone with solid business experience," USOC President Bill Hybl said. "We need someone with lead­ership skills. We may look at someone with an Olympic background or a sports back­ground." 

-

Purchase Between October 24 -28 
All Major European Destinations 
London Milan Paris Amsterdam Dublin Frankfurt Brussels Lisbon Madrid Rome Glasgow Manchester Birmingham ousseldorf Shannon Zurich Tel Aviv Barcelona Malaga Santiago de Compostella Alicante Bilbao Palma de Majorca 
¦ c=•. 
student Universe~ 
IT'S YOUR W0RL0. EXPLORE IT 
800.272.9676 studentuniverse.com 
r--------iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii=~=~=-~_;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:================================--==-=---­
page 20 
\AfORLD SERIES 
-
S,trong bullpen secures ,:ankees' third victory 
Auociated Press 
NEWYOHK 

The parade of Yankees reliev­
cri, began with David Cone, 
continued with Jeff Nelson and 
Mike Stanton and ended, as 
usual, with Mariano Rivera. 
Every lime manager Joe 
Torre called the bullpen in 
Game 4 of the World Series on 
Wrdrn~sday night, the Yankees 
reLef corps responded with air­
tight pitching in a 3-2 victory. 
Torre's bullpen was close to 
perfcci as the Yankees extcnd­
nd their Wnrld Series lead to 3­
1. 
They can win a 26th champi­
on!:hip Thursday night, and if 
they do, a reliever will almost 
certainly be involved. 
Torre started Denny Neagle 
in Game 4 but took note when 
Mil:e Piazza crushPd a two-run 
homer against the left-hander. 
The next time Piazza came to 
th( plate with two outs and 
nobody on base in the fifth 
inning, Torre came out to get 
Neagle. 
'?iazza is one of the few play­ers who is in scoring position when he gets in the batter's boll," Torre said. ffNeagle didn't know but I made up my mind Coney was going to face Piazza." 
The starter seemed startled anc. annoyed at being lifted one out too early to get the victory. Bu, Torre wasn't fooling around on this night after going a bit too long with starter Orlando Hernandez the night before in the Mets' victory. 
· In the bullpen, Cone had been told to get n~ady for Piazza. 
"l wasn't surn I'd face him," Core said. "I was as surprised as '.)cnny when Joe made the change." 
On the mound, Neagle see. nnd stunned. 
''I'm a victim of not having done it long enough for Joe," he said. "When he reached for the ball, I was shocked." 
As Cone trotted in from the left field bullpen. he looked around to familiarize himself with Shea Stadium. 
Tax 
tangles 
t!~al 1
un..._..~ e. 

You can't resolve an ongoing tax iuue through the usu..! IRS clwmel.,I Or you face significant h:trcuhip unlo,s reUcf!s granted? You may qualify for • personal Tup•yer i\dvoc.itc. Phone toll­free t-877-7774778. 


...., 
T/1,: fourn,,f ~1·.:nuu .\avwj' Workin/j' ro pur !trt•lccjmr
-. ~---­
I-le had not pitched in the 
home of the Mets since they 
traded him away in 1992 and 
wondered about ·the fans' reac· 
tion. 
"It wac; a pretty firm Oboo.' I 
know where I stand now," he 
said. 
Cone had made just one relief 
appearance in a dreadful 4-14 
season. But he retired Piazza 
on a pop fly. 
When the Yankees threat­
ened in the sixth, Torre pulled 
Cone for a pinch hitter. 
That brought on Nelson. who 
was shelled in Game 2. This 
time, he allowed a lcadoIT sin­
gle to Todd Zeile in the sixth, 
but he escaped any trouble 
when he turned a line drive 
back at him into an inning-end­. ing double play. 
When Nelson walked pinch­
hitler Lenny Harris with one 
out in the seventh, Torre went 
lo Mike Stanton. who had four 
strikeouts in 2 2-3 innings in 
the Series. 
He added two more strike­
outs, getting pinch-hitters 
Bubba Trammell and Kurt 
Abbott. 
"There's no secret ·when I 
come at a hitter," Stanton said. 
''I've got to make quality pitch­
es. Experience has benefitted 
us because we've been able to 
get into the moment." 
That left the last two innings 
to Torre's closer, Rivera, and 
he breezed through them to get 
his 17th straight postseason 
save. One of the hitters he 
retired in the ninth was Jay 
Payton, who tagged him for a 
three-run homer in the Series 
opener. 
"He had a live arm tonight," 
Payton said. "We were sur­
prised to see Neagle get taken 
out as early as he did. It was a 
great move by Joe Torre. Their 
bullpen did a great job." 
From the time Neagle left the 
game, the Yankees used four 
relievers and the Mets man­
aged two singles. 
"We needed every single bit of contribution that we got from every pitcher out there," Torre said. 
It was a bullpen at its best. 


The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 26, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Drug binge lands strawberry in jail 

Associat~d Pres, 
TAMPA, Fla. 
Troubled slugger Darryl Strawberry is in jail after leaving a treatment center for a week­end drug binge with a friend. 
The sus-· 
pended New York Yankees outfielder was taken into custody Wed-nes­day after testing posi­
tive for Strawberry cocaine and saying he left the center where he's serving house arrest to use drugs, according to Joe Papy, regional director for the Florida Department of Corrections. Strawberry left the facility about 11 p.m. Saturday night and his probation ofncer was notified. He returned at about 3 
a.m. Sunday. Strawberry admit­ted smoking crack cocaine and taking IO Xanax. a tranquilizer used to treat anxiety. 
Papy said Strawberry told him he used drugs because of emo• tional distress. The one-time baseball star has colon cancer. 
"Needless to say. we are 

always disappointed when an 
addict relapses," Papy said. 
"Darryl Strawberry is an addict." 
Joseph Ficarrotta. 
Strawberry's defense attorney, 
could not be reached for com­
ment on the latest charges. 

'Tm saddened by it," Yankees manager Joe Torre said before Game 4 of the World Series. "People who know Darryl feel for him .... He's going through a very tough time. He's doing it to him­self. basically. That's the sad part." 
Strawberry was less than two months into a two-year term of housn arrest for his conviction on drug and prostitute-solicitation charges. lie was serving his house arrest at a private drug­treatment center that state offi­cials declined to identify. 
Under his house arrest, Strawberry was prohibited from going anywhere without his parole ollicer's permission. He is now charged with two violations of his house arrest. violating cur­few and using drugs. 
His parole officer will recom­mend a judge hold Strawberry in jail for 30 days and fit him with an electronic monitoring device, Papy said. 
In September, Strawberry was sentenced to two years' house arrest after admitting he violated 
probation by driving under the 
influence of medication and leav­
ing the scene of an accident. 

The Hillsborough County State Attorney's Office did not return calls for comment on the case. Strawberry is to appear Thursday beforn a judge. 
His legal status will be deter­mined after his probation ollice files a report with the judge who sentenced him in September. Corrections off1cials said that report was expected to be filed Wednesday afternoon. 
The arrest is the latest in a string of legal run-ins for the 1983 NL Hookin of the Year and eight-time All Star. 
In February. Strawberry was suspended for at least a year, his third cocaine-related suspension from baseball in five years. 
In 1998, Strawberry was diag­nosed with colon cancer. which was treated with surgery and chemotherapy. 
In August, he underwent surgery to remove a tumor in his stomach. 
Ile was arrested in September after trying to flee from a minor collision while driving to an appointment with his probation officer. 
Strawberry said, and drug tests confirmed. he was under in the influence of pain killers. A misdo-

The next meeting will be held Wednesday, November J5', at 5:30 p.m. in the CSC. The theme is "lnterrace: Standing Alone". The focus is isolation in a homogenous setting. 
Dinner provided courtesy ofMulticultural Student Programs and Services. Please RSVP by October 30th ! Call 1-1684. 

J 
L_ 
Thursday, October 26, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Stern penalizes Timberwolves 
determine who had knowledge of $2.5 million contract. Stern went Associated Press the secret contract agreement. even further, voiding Smith's last "It's a tough penalty. l was read­two contracts and thereby strip­NEW YORK ing across the page and the draft ping Smith of' his Larry Bird rights, 
The Minnesota Timberwolves picks just kept going," Knicks gen­which would have allowed him to learned what their penalty is for eral·manager Scott Layden said. sign a lucrative extension with the making a secret deal with Joe "The money is probably the least Timberwolves next summer. Smith, and it's a harsh one. of the penalty, but collectively it The NBA also c,tsked the players What's more, NBA commissioner shows that the commissioner is association to "impose appropriate David Stern hasn't finished ham­not soft on circumvention." discipline" against Eric Fleisher, mering them. The Knicks and Dallas Smith's former agent. 
Stern came down hard Mavericks were among the teams All 29 NBA teams are now free Wednesday on the Timberwolves, quickly indicating an interest in to negotiate with Smith, but it voiding Smith's contract and for­Smith. The Chicago Bulls, who can seemed he was ready to re-sign feiting the team's next five first­pay Smith more than any other with his current team. But Smith round draft picks. team, said they would not com­has no financial incentive to 
He also fined the team $3.5 mil­ment until reviewing the situation remain in Minnesota since he lion. Possible suspensions for with the league office. would have to play there for three owner Glen Taylor and general Under an arbitrator's ruling more years to regain his Bird manager Kevin McHale won't be announced Monday, Stern had the rights. decided until a hearing is held to right to void Smith's one-year, "Money has never been an issue 
for me. It's always been about playing basketball and playing somewhere that I can contribute and be happy. It's never been 


about money," Smith said before learning of Stern's ruling. 
The Timberwolves said they were "assessing the ruling" and had no immediate comment. The players union did not immediately comment. 
NBA arbitrator Kenneth Dam found that Smith and the Timberwolves entered into a sepa­rate, secret agreement that guar­
Happy 
anteed Smith a lucrative long­term deal beginning with the 2001-02 season. 
Birthday 
Heyl! 
The league has long suspected that such secret agreements exist, but no team had ever been caught before. 
"This [penaJty] reflects the seri­ousness of a finding of circumven­tion," NBA attorney Joel Litvin 
said. 

-------------------------, 
page 21 
NFL 

Green steps in for injured Warner 
way around, I don't think 
Associated Press 
we are going to change anything."

ST. LOUIS 
After an awkwardly

The St. Louis Rams can snapped ball sent Warneronly hope their new backup to the sidelines in Kansasquarterback turns out as City, Green demonstratedwell as the last one. 
he could still handle the

Just last season, Trent 
system he was once sup­Green was supposed to be posed to direct. He complet­The Man in St. Louis. Then, ed 15 of 21 passes for 205a knee injury in preseason 

yards and three touch­

knocked Green out for the downs.
year, and allowed former It wasn't enough, howev­Arena League quarterback er, to overcome the Rams'and grocery store stock boy poor defensive showing,Kurt Warner to emerge and and the Chiefs won 54-34.
lead the Rams to a Super Warner said the system
Bowl title. Now it's Green stepping won't need to change, 
because he and Green arein for Warner, who was on quarterbacks with similarhis way to a second record­styles.

setting season when he 
"We're not going to missbroke the little finger on his a beat," Warner said. "Thethrowing hand last week in 

thing that's kind of nice
a loss to Kansas City. 
about it is Trent and I areIt's a reversal of last sea­very similar type quarter­

son's story, but Green backs. We're accurate.
doesn't expect much to 
We're guys that sit in thechange. He said the offense, pocket. We do a lot of the in particular. will be the same things."

same. It's the same system The offense underthat was in place when he 
Warner averaged

was injured Jast year. more 
than 500 yards a game. But"I don't think the offense San Francisco 49ers coach

changed any when I got 
Steve Mariucci isn't sure his

hurt," Green said. "That defense can contain
was the offense that was in Warner's stand-in. 
place, and we were running Green "has a differenteffectively then. And when jersey number," MariucciKurt stepped in, they just said. "Other than that, he'skind of kept things going, very similar." 
and now that it is the other 

Thursday, October 26 
7:00 
p.m. Film: "Dr. Strangelove", Hesburgh Center Auditorium 

7:00 
p.m. Sophomore Class Dinner, LaFortune Ballroom (admission includes a pass to "The Patriot" on Thurs.)* 

7:00 
p.m. "Introduction to Natural Family Planning", LaFortune Student Center Montgomery Theatre 


7:05 p.m. Men's Hockey Game vs. Michigan State, Joyce Center Fieldhouse* 
8:00 
p.m. ND Glee Club Fall Concert, Washington Hall* 

8:00 
p.m. Chicago Bulls vs. Indiana Pacers, Joyce Center Arena* 


8:30 
p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 

8:30 
p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 


9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "The Patriot", DeBartolo 101* and "The Exorcist", DeBartolo 155* 
Friday. October 27 
4:00 p.m. Keenan Great Pumpkin, Keenan 
5:00 p.m. Women's Swimming vs. Miami (Fla.), Rolfs Aquatic Center 
6:00 p.m. Men's Swimming vs. Kalamazoo, Rolfs Aquatic Center 
6:30 p.m. Football Pep Rally, Joyce Center 
7:00 
p.m. International Coffee House presents an Acoustical Performance of Popular French Songs, CSC 

7:00 
p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badmin­ton, Court 2, Rolfs 


7:05 p.m. Men's Hockey Game vs. Michigan State, Joyce Center Fieldhouse* 
7:30 p.m. Men's Soccer Game vs. West Virginia, Alumni Field 
7:45 p.m. Kickoff 2000, (Basketball), Joyce Center Arena 
8:00 
p.m. ND Glee Club Fall Concert, Washington Hall* 

8:00 
p.m. Movie, "The Patriot", DeBartolo 101* and "The Exorcist", DeBartolo 155* 


8:30 
p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards FREE POOL, LaFortune Student Center 

8:30 
p.m. 112th annual Sorin Talent Show, Sorin Hall Front Lawn 


9:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Princess Mononoke", Snite Museum* 
10:00 
p.m. -1:00 a.m. Flipside Hallow­een Party, LaFortune Student Center* 

10:00 
p.m. Tom Deluca, Hypnotist, Stepan Center 


10:30 p.m. Movie, "The Patriot", and "The Exorcist", DeBartolo 101/155* 

Saturday, October 28 
8:00 
p.m. Movie, "The Patriot", DeBartolo 101 * and "The Exorcist", DeBartolo 155* 

8:00 
p.m. Blak Images, Washington Hall* 


9:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Princess Mononoke", Snite Museum* 
10:00 p.m. -2:00 a.m. Da Playa's Ball ?O's Dance, Center for Social Concerns* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "The Patrior', DeBartolo 101* and "The Exorcist", DeBartolo 155* 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students 
Programs are subject to change without notice. For up to date information, check out the ND calendar, Today@ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 631-7308. To add an event to further calendars, 
please send the details about the activity to ... sao@nd.edu. 
l 
l 
I 
-1• 
\ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
., j 

page 22 Thursday, October 26, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 

~1EN'S BASKETBALL 
~v1urphy picked best in conference, Irish slated to finish third 
I 
Tournament. A native of f<ridley, Minn .. 

Sp,cial to The Obs<ervcr · 
he averaged 15.3 points and led all league players with 91 three-point bas­

Troy Murphy. the Notre Dame for­kets.
w;ird who was the 1999-2000 Big East 
Griffin was chosen as Parade

Player of' the Year, has been named the 
Magazine's National Player of the Year

2000-0 l Prcseason Plaver of the Year 
following last season. He averaged 26

by a vote of the leaguc•s·head coaches. 
Last season, Murphy became the first 
shots as a senior. The native of

player in Big East history to !Pad the 
Philadelphia. Pa. was also a member of 

2. St. John1s 72
Ics.gue in scoring and rebounding in the 
the McDonald's and USA Today All­

same year and the first player to be 
3. Villanova (2) 69
America teams. He is the third Seton

named Big East rookie and player of 
4.Miami 58
Hall player (Luther Wright, 1991·92;

thu year in consecutive seasons. 
5. Boston College 37
Terry Dehere, 1989-90) to earn presea­

In conference games only, he aver­
6. Providence 35
son rookie recognition. 

aged 21.7 points and 10.5 rebounds. 
7. Virginia Tech 24
Overall. the 6-foot-9 native of Mc rristown, N.J. was also first in scor­Irish pegged for third In league in~: (22.7 ppg) and rebounding (10.3). Connecticut and Seton Hall arc the 
ZJi611i!::h~ 
Murphy helped the Irish to a 22-15 selections to win their respective divi­
80 

record and the championship game of sions in 2000-01. according to a vote of 
77 

thf National Invitation Tournament. the Big East head coaches. Coaches 
68 
Murphy is on the Preseason All-Big could not place their own teams on 
63

Ea:,t First Team for the second consecu­their preseason ballots. 
45
tivn season. lie is joined on this year's With the addition of .Virginia Tech. 
27

first team by Troy Bell of Boston the 14-team league has been split into Co.lege, Pittsburgh's Ricardo Greer, two divisions. Big East squads will play 
25 
Kevin Braswell of Georgetown and a 16-game conference schedule. Each Darius Lane of Seton Hall. season. teams will meet each divisional 
Creer shared the 1999-00 Big East opponent on a home-and-home basis Most Improved Player award with Seton and will play four games against teams Hall guard Shaheen llolloway. A 6-5 from the other division. forward, Greer averaged 18.] points The Huskies were a solid choice to and 9.8 rebounds for the Panthers. He win the East Division. They received 12 wa:, third in overall scoring and second first-place votes. St. John's edged
! to \tturphy in rebounding. Greer was Villanova for second place, though it 
I 
t the first Pittsburgh player to finish in was the Wildcats who received the the top 10 in scoring and rebounding other two first-place nods. Miami was sini:e Brian Shorter in 1989-90. fourth, followed by Boston College, 
Bell was the 1999-00 Big East Rookie Providence and Virginia Tech. 
'I 
of the Year. He set a league freshmen The balloting in the West Division was 
I 
! scoring record, averaging 20.1 points in much closer among the top four teams. conference games. The 6-1 native of Seton Hall won the overall voting tally, Mir1neapolis, Minn. set a Boston College though Georgetown had a 5-4 advan­freshmen scoring record with 508 tage in first-place votes. Notre Dame points despite missing the last three had three first-place votes and placed games of the season with a knee injury. third. Syracuse was at the top of two 
Braswell averaged 14.8 points and ballots and finished fourth. Pittsburgh 
5.3 assists last season for the Hoyas. was fifth, followed by West Virginia and 


Thu 6-2 junior from Baltimore, Md. Rutgers.
( 
dirncted Georgetown to a 19-15l mark, the semifinals of the I ATIH Big East Championship
I 
I and into the second round of I the NIT. Teammates Ruben
'I 
Boumtje Boumtje and LeeI Suggs were named to the pre­
I 
I sea:rnn second team, the first 
I 
time since 1994-95
I 
(Connecticut) that three players
I 
from the same team were cited! in the preseason.'I Lane was the leading scorer I on l:ast season's Pirate squad
I 
that finished 22-10 and 
advanced to the East Region! semifinals of the NCAA 
~ 
.. 
-
Most ND Students Make Healthy Choices 

Many ND students choose NOT to drink alcohol. 
More than 80% drink only once a week or less frequently.* 
A message from PILLARS with Alcohol & Drug Education 311 Lafortune Student Center University of Notre Dame (219) 631-7970 http://www.nd.edu/-aldrug/ 

Thursday, October 26, 2000 page 23
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Calendar of Events 
September 25-October 30 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 (Nov. 3-4, 2000) 
Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen•Phillips, Farley, Keough, Howard, Dillon, L}'l)ns,. McGlinn, Pasquerilla West,_Sorin 
Sunday. October 29 
''Dia de los Muertos~ Celebration 
1 ;00 p.m .. laFortune 
Blessing ofAltar & Procession, 
1:30 p.m .. Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
Spanish Mass 
Monday-Tuesday. October 30-31 ~ 11 :30 pm-10:00 pm St. Paul's Chapel. FisherHall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday. October 31. 7:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday. November 1, 10:00 pm Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesday, November 1 
All Saints Day . 
Thirtieth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, October 28 Mass. 30 minutes after the game Rev. DavidJ. Scheidler,·c::s.c. 
Sunday, October 29 Mass 
8:00a.m. 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 
10:00a.m. 
Rev. William A. W.ack. c.s.c.
' .. t ,·

11:45 a.m. · ,,,. · ·Rev. T~o~ P..,P~yle,·,?fc. 
Stepan Center 
Saturday, October 28 Mass 45 minuces after the game . Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, c.s.c. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Jer 31: 7 ­ 9  
2nd Reading  Heb 5: 1 ­ 6  
Gospel  Mk 10: 46-52  

How Do You Know? 
by Fr. Bill Wack, c.s.c. 

W,hat is your vocation in life? What is discernment all about anyway? Wouldn't it be great ifwe had a formula, a way to know what God wants us to do? You can . be sure of this: God is calling you to serve the world and the church in some way. It's up to you to find out how. 
I am the Associate Vocation Director for the Congregation of Holy Cross, and a "voca­tional counselor" as part of the Campus Ministry team. That means that I assist people in determining their vocation and pursuing it. But what makes me an expert in your "calling"? How do I know? I don't know, really; but I can help YOU to know. My job is to listen to people and point out what is already there. 
Finding one's vocation (Lat., vocatio: summons) means listening for God's voice. That doesn't mean necessarily that God will speak to you as another human being speaks. For most of us, that never seems to happen. Nonetheless, I believe chat God does communicate wich us constantly: through our experiences, friendships, studies, prayers, talents, gifts and desires. 
A vocation is something chat is realized over time; nor in a flash or all of a sudden. Instead ofwrestling with the question of what you should do for the rest of your life, think about where you are going right now. The question is not so much, "Am I ready to commit my life completely at this moment?", as it is "What is the next step for me?" Answering the call comes about through taking · a series oflittle steps in life. I ne,v,er heard a voice 
That's what I did. I 

(a-..:dlbly) ot ~w ~ "''•loft,, ll•t I 
entered Old College (the place alwo~ ~t GQcl~$i haad a•ttv --.di for undergraduate seminarians on campus) as a freshman and PU'PQSQ,WIY, QU:kik'19 ft\Q, ....... got ordained a Holy Cross priest aut MY \10,Qft\loa... eight years Jater. lv'.fy friends ask me: Did you re;tlly know -as an 18-year old -that God · was calling you to be a priest? No, not exactly. I did have an idea that this was something that just might be in the cards for me, bur I had no idea how it would turn our in the end. Slowly but surely, I found myself committing more and more of myself to the Congre­gation and to the church. There were some winding roads and unexpected turns along the way, but I can definitely see now that God was calling me to be a priest all along. I never heard a voice (audibly) or saw a vision, but I always felt God's hand gently and purposefully guiding me in figuring out my vocation. What about you: Are you being called to be a reacher? A physician? A lawyer? A husband? A mother? A religious sister or brother? A priest? An engineer or scientist? A social worker? An accountant? How do you know? At the beginning of this article I said it would be nice ifwe had a formula, a way of figuring chis out. At the risk of sounding overly simplistic, I would like to offer a method that has assisted me in finding my own vocation in life. In determining what God wants you to do, it may be helpful to ask yourself the following three questions -not just once, but many times in your life. If God speaks to us through our desires, our gifts, and ocher people, then these questions should help to point us in the right direction: 
1. 
What do I want to do? What gives me joy in life? 

2. 
Where are my talents and abilities taking me? How can I best use the gifts God has given me for the good of others? 

3. 
What do others (i.e., those who know me well) think I should do? 


All of this presupposes that we are praying to know and do God's will. Also, it means that we need to find and cultivate good friendships with people who can assist us. It requires honesty, integrity, faith, and humility. Most of all what is needed is attentiveness to the voice of God around and within you. 
Don't worry ab~ut having it all figured our right away. It will come in time. For now, simply take the next step. Take a class in accounting, volunteer to teach Sunday School in a local parish, help out with the legal aid clinic or Chapin Street Clinic, date, get involved in liturgy and religious education, try something new and challenging. Along the way you will find rhe way. 
God is definitely calling you. Everyone has a vocation. How do you know what yours is? Listen, ask, and act. 
.. 
(lvv1PUS
t'v11NISTRY 
-

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 26, 2000 
VVORLD SERIES 
)~ankees. take commanding 3-1 lead over crosstown foes 
. Jeter's leadoff h«>mer on first pitch o1f game hands Mlets third defeat 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 

Derck Jeter and the New York Yankees wasted no time snnding a message: first pitch, fir:;t inning, home run. 
Jeter led off with a drive ovr~r the loft-field fence and the, Yankees led the rest of the WHY, beating the New York Mets 3-2 Wednesday night in Game 4 to move within one 
-
victory of their third straight WL,rld S(lries championship. 
[lprailed a day earlier, the Yankees got right back on track in taking a 3-1 lead in this Subway Series. Jeter ho mered and tripled, and Mariano Hivera finished off 4 1<; scoreless innings by the Yankees bullpen. · 
Moved up to the leadoff spot for the first time in this Series, Jeter delivered. He be,~ame the tint player to 
homer on the "When you play games Jones wa: lifted afte1
opuning pitch like this you want to of a World 
five innings 
October6
score early. I got a 

Relieveri since Pete good pitch to hit, and I Glendor 
Rusch, Johr 

Series game 
Ho ,e for hit it well.., Cincinnati in 
Franco anc 
October 27 
Armandc "I've been 

19i'2. 
Derek Jeter Benitez kepi known to Yankees shortstop the YankeeE 
November3 

sw ng at the firnt pitch," Jeter said. "When you play games like this, you want to score early. I got a good pitch to hit, and I hit it well. 
"We're playing at Shea Stadium, and even though there are a few Yankee fans here, you want to lake the crowd out or the game," he said. 
Jeter's shot off Bobby .I. .Jor1es sent the Yankees toward their third one-run victory in this Series. 
Said Jones: "I wasn't expect­ing him to swing." 
"Putting a run on the board wa:, the difference in the game," Mets manager Bobby 
Val,,mtine said. 
A sellout crowd of 55,290 seemed much more subdued tha:1 !'or the Mets' 4-2 win in Garne 3, possibly because or a much larger presence of Yarkees rooters. 
T1e ballpark figures to he a lot louder -either way -on Thursday night when the Yankees try to become the first team since the 1972-74 Oak land Athletics to win three titles in a row. 
Andy Pettitte will start Game 5 a~ainst the Mets' /\I Leiter. Of 1he prior 40 teams to take a 3· 1 lead in the World Series, 34 have gone on to win the championship. 
"It's the Yankees. We have to win three in a row," Mets center fielder Jay Payton said. "It doesn't get much tougher lhan that." 
If the Yankees win. they hope to have a dry clubhouse for a celebration. Severe f'looding from a burst pipe soaked their locker room, forcing players to conduct postgame interviews on lhe tielrl. 
"All of a sudden. the mas­
sage room and lhe weight Jeter's hitting streak in World area and the hot tub area, it Series play to 13 games. was like Niagara Falls," win­In the second, O'Neill tripled ning pitcher Jeff Nelson said. for the second straight day ­"The ceiling collapsed, there afler not hitting any since July was water everywhere. This 23, 1999 -and. following an green, gunky water." intentional walk to Jorge 
Mike Piazza's two-run Posada, scored on Scott homer pulled the Mets within Brosius' sacrifice ny. 3-2 in the third inning, and New York made it 3-0 in the there was no more scoring as third. Jeter led of'!' with a both managers made early triple, giving him eight hits in moves to the bullpen. 


Yankees starter Denny 

Neagle \Vas pulled after 4 2-3 r---------------------------------------------------------..
innings, with David Cone corn­
ing in to retire Piazza on a 
popup to end the fifth. 
Nelson pitched 1 1-3 innings, Mike Stanton struck out the only two batters he !'aced and Hivcra pitched two innings for his first save of the series. 
Rivera was helped when right lielder Paul O'Neill made I 
a sliding catch on Edgardo Alfonzo's liner to start the September 1 eighth. Yankees fans eruptcc when Hivera earned his sixtt career Series save, tyini 
September 15
Rollie Fingers' record, b: striking out Matt Franco t, end th, 
game. September 29 
from break• ing away. 
The Yankees scored single runs in each of the first three November 10 innings. They did ii. without a contribution from cleanup man Bernie Williams, who 1 
November 17
was hitless in four at-bats and 1 dropped to 0-for-15 in thel Series. I 
Playing on the 14th anniver-: 
December 1 
sary of' one of their most1 famous games -the Billi Buckner-assisted comeback in: Game 6 of the 1986 World 1 this Series, and trotted home as Luis Sojo grounded out. 

Mets fans did not seem daunted, probably figuring their team would have a chance to get back into the game against Neagle. 
They were right. 

Slumping Timo Perez opened the third with a single up the middle and Piazza. who hit a long drive that hooked 
foul his first time up, lined a 75 mph changeup into the bleachers in left-cen lcr /fold. 
Piazza's second two-run homer or the Series also marked his fourth home run of this postscason -a lot of production from the !\II-Star catcher who went into this October batting only .211 ( I 2­f'or-57) with two homers in past postseasons. 
Debbie Ballou (Professor of Management, UND) "Overview of Current E-commerce Issues" 
David Overbeeke (Gen. Manager E-business, GE Aircraft Engines) "Business to Business E-commerce" 
Geoff Robertson (Vice President of Engineering, mvp.com) "Starting a B2C Company" 
Michael Cullinane (Chief Financial Officer, divine interVentures) "How to Value an E-business" 
Colleen Sullivan (Dir. of Information Systems. Alltel Communications) "Data Warehousing and Mining for Building Business Intelligence" 
Rick Spurr (Senior Vice President, Entrust Technologies) "Internet Security Threats and Measures to Deal with Them" 
Reuben Slone (Vice President of Global E-business, Whirlpool) "Supply Chain Management" 
Cheryl Aetterick (Manager, PricewaterhouseCoopers) "Conducting E-business Assessment" 
Dr. Anatole Gershman (Director, Andersen Consulting) 
"Emerging Trends and Technologies in E-commerce" 
All lectures held from 10:4oam-12:05pm 
Series ­the Mets had no luck 1 from the start. I  Jordan Auditorium, l\lcn<loza Cullc~c of Bu!>incss Nutre Danie facult~, staff.and studcnt."i a1·c wclcon1c to attend these pre,.,cnlations  
Jeter stepped in and, withl  
many fans still getting settled,I  
launched  a  I  

drive to •--------------------------------------------------------.. 
deep left. 

Among ~~,~~~~~~~~~~~~~
those to cheer was 

~ .Are you involved in tutoring children? 
one of his 

~ Want to be more effective? 
b e s t 

'-_ If so~ you. are invited to the
friends, Seattle shortstop 

~ Tutor Trai:ni:ng
A I e x Rodriguez, 
from the · 

~ Workshop
front row. It was a stunning 
blow. and 

' ....only the eighth time a 
' 
W o r I d 

'%.,. Wednesday" Nov-ember 1 st" 6-9 pmSeries 
game had ~ Center for Social Concerns 
' 

started '-_ Pizza dinner will be provi.ded! with a home run, 
' 

~ 
~ 
'-_ 
~ 
' ~ ' 
,...,_ 
' 

·~ 
' 

'-_ 
' 

~~ Campus a:n.d local experts will facilitate training sessions. ~-. 
and tb e 

~ Topics to be addressed include: ~ first since %... * Teaching Children. to Read * Teaching Children. lVIath ~ Hickey ~ * Discipline * Conflict lVIanagement ~ Henderson '-_ * Tutoring Fundamentals * lVIotivatin.g students '-_ 
did it for Oakland in '-_ Due to food and space limitations, please reserve '-_ 1989. ~ your spot by 5pm, :M.onday, October 30th by phone ~.,,_,__ 
The hit ~ (631-5293) or e-mail (CahilL19@nd.edu). ·~ a l s o 
c..sc::
extended 

~~.;~idRi~~~~~'~'~~~~~~~ 
' 

Thursday, October 26, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WORLD SERIES 
Jeter's performance earns comparisons to DiMaggio 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 

Derek Jeter, the modern 
DiMaggio, helped moved the 
Yankees within one win of 
their third straight World 
Series title. 
Jeter, asked to assume the leadoff spot. homered on the first pitch of the game, then tripled and scored as the Yankees bPat the Mets 3-2 on Wednesday night for a 3-1 World Series lead. 
When Joe D. came to the majors in 1936, the Yankees won four World Series in his first four seasons. Jeter is on the verge of helping the Yankees win titles in four of his first five years. 
"We've been fortunate the last few years," he said in front of the Yankees' dugout, seconds after the final out. 
These Yankees are on the verge of becoming one of base­ba11's greatest teams, one of only four to win the Series in three straight years. 
Huth and Gehrig never did it. Neither did Heggie or Thurman. Jeter is about to join the DiMaggios and Berras. 
"You have lo play for a lot of years before you can be con­sidered a Yankee great," he said back in July after winning the MVP award in the AU-Star game. ''I've only played four years. This is my fifth. Hopefully, I can play for a few more years, then start that debate." 
Fuhgeddaboudit! 
In the age of talk radio, the debate has already begun. The Mets have Benny and the Jets? The Yankees have Derek and the Dominoes. 
He gets hits, and opponents 
fall like, well, dominoes. 
"He makes things happen," a 
rather drained Yankees man­
ager Joe Torre said. "He's a 
kid who's only been around 
five years, and he's got all the 
qualities of someone who 
takes charge and leads by 
example, as opposed to telling 
anybody he is the leader of 
this club." 
Torre calls him the kid. Jeter still calls his manager Mr. Torre. 
Jeter seems to have perfect timing, at the plate and in the dugout. He knows just the right time for a wisecrack to loosen the tension. Just before Mike Piazza grounded out in the eighth, Jeter ran in to the mound to say a few words to Mariano Rivera. 
He is the Yankees' glamour­puss, the cover boy the girls swoon at, like they were at some Sinalra concert in the '40s. 
On Wednesday, he stunned Shea Stadium into silence, sending Bobby J. Jones' first pitch soaring into the left-field bleachers, the first to homer of the opening pitch of a Series game since Pete Rose in 1972. 
"You want to take the crowd out of the game," Jeter said. "I've been known to swing at the first pitch. When you' re playing these types of games, when runs can be kind of hard to come by, you want to score early. 
"It was huge for us." 
Jones was shocked. 
"I wasn't expecting him to swing," Jones said. "There's some guys that swing first pitch. When I watched him on video, he was in the two-hole a lot." 

Burst pipe floods locker roo01 
. Damaged clubhouse strands Yankees on field at Shea 
Associated PreS> 
NEW YORK 
Perhaps one night too early, the Yankees' locker room was flooded and the players lingered on the field after a victory. 
There vrns no champagne or celebration Wednesday. Instead, as the Yankees were winning Game 4 of the World Series for a 3-l lead against the Mets, a trash fire result­ed in a burst pipe that flood­ed the Bronx Bombers' lock­er room at Shea Stadium. 
Sometime after the seventh inning, a fire started in a trash container on the stadi­um's third deck, said Sandy Alderson, an executive vice president of baseball opera­tions in the commissioner's office. 
When firefighters opened a standpipe to douse the smoky fire, pressure built up in another pipe over the Yankees' clubhouse, he said. That pipe burst, causing the flood. · 

"I was in there when it happ,med," Yankees reliever Jeff Nelson said. "All of a sudden the massage room and the weight area and the hot tub area -it was like Niagara Falls. It was all of a sudden, the ceiling collapsed. 
."There was water every­where -this green gunky water." 
Alderson said police were satisfied that the fire was not deliberately set, and there would be no further investi­gation. The clubhouse will be ready for Thursday's Game 
5. 

Nelson, along with team­mates Derek Jeter, Mariano Rivera and Paul O'Neill, had to conduct postgame inter­views on the field outside the Yankees' dugout because of the flood. 
"Hopefully, we got our clothes out of the way," Jeter said. 
The field was packed with reporters circling players as the Fire Department attempt­ed to handle the. mess caused by the ruptured pipe. 
Rich Levin, spokesman for major league baseball, said players were able to change in the locker room despite all the water. 
"It was pretty wet," he said. · 
The flood came a day after the Yankees brought in some of their furniture from the Bronx after deciding that Shea Stadium lacked some of their accustomed amenities. 
"Luckily, it doesn't smell in there:· Nelson added. 
Yankees manager Joe Torre said he was told about the flood during the game but decided not to worry about it at the time. 
"I didn't bother going in to check because I really didn't care," he said. "I was con­cerned more with what was on the field." 
It wasn't the first time there was a flood in a locker room of the 36-year-old sta­dium. On Opening Day 1999, a malfunctioning pump spilled raw sewage all over the Mets' facilities, causing $200,000 worth of damage. 
Be kind to the Earth. 
Please recycle The 
Observer. 
Wednesday, November 8 Friday -Saturday, November IO -11 at 8 pm 
Sunday, November 12, 2000 at2:30pm 
Little Theatre 
IM~ 
t;_~THEART5 
~NOTRE DAWE, IN 

For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
284-4626 



Still waiting Jo that killer test score to 
Here1s your c,9·ance ! Call 1-888-5&1-8378 or ,,­email info.chicago@review.com The 
for a teaching position today! 
'<:J:!_incefOn ·, Review 
www~eom---· 1.888.581.8378 

The week of January 4-11 Specific 48 hour period Set by each Site. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 10:00pm, MONDAY, OCTOBER 30th 
REGISTRATION FORMS AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
or at www.ndtoday.com 
Questions? 631-5293 


Albany ,r.Rlbuquerque ...Boston.Buffalo.Chicago...Cintinnati.Cleueland Columbus..,Dallas...oes Moines.Detroit..,Grand Hapids..,Honolulu Houston "' lndianapolis.Mobile...New York ... oakland..,Philadelphia PhoeniH . Pittsburgh ...st. Petersburg...south Bend...san Antonio San Diego...Tacoma...washington o.C.-r-AND MORE! 



----_J 
,---------------------------------------~---­
page 26 Thursday, October 26, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS 

... 


Mahan 
continued from page 32 
technique at this level. They've taught me how to be a man ­not just on the football field but through everything else." 
After his mother's passing. Mahan has made Notre Dame his home. 
"Sometimes l go and stay with my sister in Chicago. When I go to Tulsa I stay with my aunt and uncle or with my girl­friend," he said. "This is pretty much my home. I only get a couple of months (Jul nf the year maybe to do whatever I want so South Bcnd's·my home for these four years." 

NOTES: 
. Spl•aking of' the progression of the team's quarterbacks, Davie said, "With !Matti l.oveccio, i\rnaz IBattlel. Carlyle lllolidayl and Jared Clark thern's a bunch of guys there that can do the things we want to do on olfons1i." Conspicuously missing from that list was current backup Gary Godsey. 
Davie announced that Im would meet with Godsey after tlw Air Force game regarding Godsl'y's futurn, wlrnther it b11 at quarter­back or tight end -where the sophomore played as a l'reshman. "Ile's a quarterback this w1wk and we're going to evaluate that whole situation next wnnk wlwn we have a little bit more time," 
Davie said. 

__A 'Jal£ ty Stuart _J<im,, J.:l).J rf/.S 
Thursday, October 26 3-4 P.M. Hessburg LibraryLounge 
Co-Sponsored by the Science, Technology, & Values Program; Arts & Letters Pre-Professional Program; and the Walther Cancer Research Center. 
Thursday, October 26, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
..... 

Irish need stellar Big East showing to look ahead to Nationals 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Ediotr 
Unless the Irish topple sever­al teams ahead of them in Friday's Big East Championships. a return trip to nationals appears out of the question. 
The Irish, who earned an at­large bid for the NCAA Championships in '99, are in danger of missing out on nationals this season. 
They finished a dis­appointing 33rd of 60 Villanova. Those would be the teams to focus on to try to beat." 
After running against a daunting 400-runner field at Pre-Nationals, the lrish are anxious to return to a smaller meet. 
"Going into Big East we're a lot more excited," sophomore Jen Handley said. "It's a lot smaller meet. It would be real­ly nice to be in the top five." 
A top-five finish will take a top performance from 
Handley, along 
wih freshmen 

.at the Pre-National "We've got to go Megan Johnson Meet, one of the best into the Big East and Rachel indicators of who the En dress, and
and run as fast

nation's top teams are. senior Chrissy 
"We've got to go into as we possibly . Kucnster. the Big East and run can. "She [Jennifer] as fast as we possibly has got to _step up can," head coach Tim big-time. She's
Tim Connelly

Connelly said. "We can capable of being help ourselves there, head coach in the top 10," 
because it's an inter­regional meet." 
The Irish arc unranked heading into the Big East Championships, but they are looking to overturn al least one of the four top-25 teams in the league. 
Boston College leads the con­ference with a No. 7 national ranking, defending champion Georgetown rates 10th, Providence is ranked No. 17 and West Virginia sits at No. 24. 
"Boston College or Georgetown is probably the favorite," Connelly said. "We've got to look at West Virginia and Providence and 
1i1 South Niteis Averwe 50iAfl Bt!c'l(J, l.ridiana 4'1.t\17 
Connelly said. 
"Megan and Rachel arc capable of being in the top 20. and so is Chrissy if she has her best race." 
So far, the Irish haven't put together career-best perfor­mances across the board. 
"They've got to line up to compete as well as they possi­bly can, and they haven't been doing that," Connelly said. 
Notre Dame may benefit from others' low expectations for it. 
"Right now, we're not ranked, so there's no pres­sure," Handley said. "We just need to run well and hope to keep our season going." 


John J. Bowman General Manager Class of 1977 

THE CANDAX-ME MCNAIR PROGRAM ANNOUNCES THE 2000 -2001 RECRUITMENT MEETING WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2000 
4:00 -5:00 PM (Pizzas & Sodas will be served) 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS (DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION~.NQV. 17) 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
(all ethnic backgrounds are eligible) 
or 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans ://www.nd.edu/~mario/mcnair/) 


Tax 
tangles
to
untangle? 


You can't resolve an ongoing tax issue through the usual IRS channels? Or you face significant hardship unless relief iJ granted? You may qualify for a personal Taxpayer Advocate, Phone toll­free 1-877-777.778, 


page 28 The Ob,erver . SPORTS Thursday, October 26, 2000 
MIEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE
.... 
~~eough wins but cannot score enough to reach playoffs 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Spom Writer 
It was a bittersweet night !'or both Keough and O'Neill Tuesday at St11pan Field as the 'HMS defeated the Angry Mob 16 0. 
Whnn they squared off in th(' linal regular season game of interhall play. Keough mwdnd to defeat O'Nnill by 18 points in ordnr to advancn to the playoffs ahuad of Stanford. O'Neill. meanwhile. was win• les:; on tlrn season and playing for pride and the chance to spoil its neighbor dorm's hopes of advancing. 
The game left a sour taste in the mouths of both teams. Keough soundly defeattid th,~ir rivals, but fell two points short of advancing to the next round. O'Neill failed to win its final game. But the Angry Mob managed to dash Keough 's hopes of making the playoffs.
•·we played real hard tonight and showed a lot of hPart," O'J\cill captain Josh l{ich said. "W,~ could !'eel the intensity of thi, game tonight. There seemed to be much more emo­tion for this game than any oth:irs. so I'm glad we played so well. They only scored on big plays, and they didn't ma rngc many drives. I think the game was closer than the scorn revealed." 
T1e heavily favored Keough team came out flat, going three-and-out on its first pos­ses:;ion and spoiling a golden opportunity when it recovered a fumble on O'Neill's 25-yard line. On these two drives, Kec,ugh went away from its strong running game of Kevin McAbee, Mike Perrone, and Hyan Yorkery. Instead, it tried to open up its offense with 
passing plays that were quick­ly snubbed by the powerful pass rush of the Angry Mob defense. 
Keough got 011 the board on a ~0-yard option run by quar­tc r back Andy Hess. Hess would then complete the 2· point conversion on a pass to Yorkery. 
The first half ended on an odd note when Keough fum­bled a pitch that was picked up by O'Neill. The O'Neill dcl'enders tried to keep the play alive by pitching the ball back to each other about five times before a Keough player finally recovered it. · 
In the second half, Keough realized it would have to score as much as possible. Paced with a fourth and 1:1, Hess hit receiver James Waechter for 28 yards to set up first and goal at the 10. On the next play. llcss found Yorkcry for tho touchdown. The 2-polnt conversion was completed on a pass to Waechter to bring the score to 16-0. 
Alle1' a long drive by O'Neill, which was finally halted after a sack on fourth down and goal. Keough got the ball back deep in its own territory with four minutes left to score the touchdown that could move it to the playoffs. It went to the air with the hopes of' moving the length of' the field, but it failed on a fourth and 10. giv­ing the ball back to O'Neill and ending the game and its season. 
"We came out real flat tonight and got off to a slow start." Keough receiver James Waechter said. "O'Neill showed a lot of heart to hang in the ball game and prevent us from scoring eighteen. Even though they didn't win, they did their jobs." 

Can't picl<. up the paper? Read The Observer online at ""ww.nd.edu/-observer. 
Tbu•sdoqs oPe students nlqh.f . .Students .ecelve .2596 off meal pFice witl. qouP student 1.0. 
-



New Candidates at Moreau Seminary 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Thursday, October 26, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Dasso reaches quarterfinals of All-American Championship 



Attention Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students, Faculty andAdministration 

Ple<tse donate One Can ofa non-perisl,able food iem l(J shaw llow 
One Can Make a_I)ifference! 
Food Drive to benefit the North Central Indiana Food Bank 
Co-Sponsored by tlte Notre Dame Alumni Association. tlu!! Centerfor Social Concerns and tlie Notre Danw'St. lllary'., students. 

When: Friday andSaturday, Octnber 27th and 28th 
Where: Collection points will be located in the lobbies ofGrace and Flanner Falls on Friday, outside the Notre Dame Bookstore anti La Fortune Student Center on both days, and outsille the .foyce Center, Gate I 0, prior to the Pep Rally on Fritlay evening. 

C-C!l!Tt1' ro• 
SOCIAL 
. 
CONCERNS
¦• 



By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame women's tennis 
star Michelle Dasso took no 
time off for fall break last 
week, continuing to impress 
the competition by advancing 
to the quarterfinals of the 
Riviera All-American 
Women's Championship in 
Pacific Palisades, Calif. 
Dasso opened the tourna­
ment with an impressive victo­
ry over third-seeded and 
fourth-ranked Kristina 
Kraszewski from the 
University of Washington. 
Dasso. who was 0-3 against 
Kraszewski in her collegiate 
career, played strong and 
defeated Kraszewski 7-6 (7-4), 
6-7 (7-5), 6-l. 
"Kraszewski is a big hitter 
and is hard to play against 
and Michelle did a great job," 
head coach Jay Louderback 
said. "It is hard to beat 
[Kraszewski) when she is 
playing well but Michelle put 
the pressure on her in the sec­
ond set and in the third set 
she just killed her. It was a 
good win to beat someone 
ranked that high." 
Dasso then advanced to the 
second round where she faced 
Tulane's Anna Monhartova 
whom she beat in three sets at 
the T. Rowe Price Tournament 
in September. 
Dasso once again was on top 
of her game and took out 
Monhartova with a 6-3 6-4 
victory. 
"I was very impressed with 
[Monhartova]. the No.1 girl 
from Tulane," Louderback 
said. "Michelle served very 
well and was able to hold 
most of the time but 
[Monhartova) matched her 
shot for shot." 
With the win over 
Monhartova, Dasso advanced 
to the quarterfinals for the 
second straight time in a colle­
giate grand slam tournament. 
Dasso, who was playing in her 
second match that Friday, 
faced Stanford's 11th-ranked 
Laura Kalvaria. 
After playing well Dasso, 
who had never faced 
Kalavaria in collegiate play, 
lost the match 6-2 6-4. 
"It was a good match," 
Loudeback said. "Kalvaria hit the ball bigger than I've ever 'seen her hit it. She played 
Michelle very well." 
The All-American Tourn­
ament, which is the last this 
fall for Dasso, marked the sec­
ond strong performance in a 
grand slam event this year 
and she is looking forward to 
a strong performance in the 
spring. 
"She's by far the best kid  
I've ever had here,"  
Louderback said. "She works  
very. hard. She is always-out  
on the court getting extra  
work in and she's gotten bet­ 
ter and better each year."  
The rest of the Irish  
women's team resumed its  
play after a week off in the  
Colorado Invitational in  
Boulder, Colo.  
The women played well  
despite being in the high alti­ 
tude of Colorado and ended up  
winning 23 of 28 singles  
matches and seven of nine  
doubles matches.  
"The girls played real well despite the different format,"  - 
Louderback said. "It was good  
for us because we had to  
adjust to the altitude."  
With Dasso not playing at all  
the women had an opportunity  
to move up a spot and sec  
some better competition than  
they would normally have  
faced.  
"I think it was good for them  
to play in a tougher position,"  
Louderback said. "They all did  
a very good job with that."  
The tournament pitted the  
Irish against New Mexico,  
Colorado State and Colorado.  
The Irish finished the tourna­ 
ment by winning eight of 10  
singles matches against  
Colorado State, eight of nine  
against Colorado, and seven of  
nine singles matches against  
New Mexico.  
The tournament was high­ 
lighted by the play of junior  
Nina Vaughan, freshman  
Caylan Leslie, junior Lindsay  
Green, senior Kimberly Guy,  
sophomore Katie Cunha and  
freshmen Alicia Salas and  
Emily Neighbours who all  
went 3-0 against the field.  
The 15th-ranked doubles  
team of Cunha and Guy also  
played well as they won two  
matches.  
After a difficult start in their  
first match in September  
Cunha and Guy have stepped  
up their play in each of the  
last three tournaments.  
"Guy and Cunha struggle  
early on but once they played  
in the WTT National Collegiate  
Championships at Stanford  
they have turned it on and  
have been playing great ten-.  
nis," Louderback said. "I am  
looking for them to get better  
and better."  
The Irish appear to be ready  
for the spring dual matches  
with the strong play of both  
the older, more experienced  
upperclassmen and the young, enthusiastic freshman.  ...  
The Irish will end their fall  
play with a tournament at  
Michigan next weekend.  


I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
..-r.. 


Thursday, October 26, 2000
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS 
HOCKEY 
Irish face off against No. 7 Michigan State on home ice 



Frida Nov 3rd 
$tepa Center 8pm
Tickets on sale at LaFun Infodesk 9am $MC ND HCC
12 ' ' students 
. $i 5non-students 


effective. giving up 10 goals in By MATT ORENCHUK two games. Spores Writer Poulin decided to ·replace Zasowski with Junior Jermiah 
The Notre Dame men's hock­Kimento. Kimento has played ey team will face their third solid in net, logging a 2-1-1 ranked opponent in three record in the past four games. 
weeks when the Michigan State "I haven't been as consistent Spartans come to town this as I would like, but the team weekend. has played well behind me," 
The series starts with a 7:05 Kimento said. 
p.m. faceoff and continues at But according to Kimento, the the same time Friday night. Ii coaches have not made a deci­was moved from a sion on the starting goalie. Friday/Saturday series because Offensively, the Irish have ofthc home football game. played well over the past three 
The Irish haven't gotten off games. Dunlop brings a three to the kind of start they would game scoring streak into like, going 2-3-1 in their first tonight's matchup. six games. "I was injured last year, so I 
"We didn't start off the way didn't have a lot of opportuni­
-
we wanted to," sophomore cen­ties to score," Dunlop said. ter Connor Dunlop said. "We "This year, we are experienced have some inexperience on offensively, and that has trans• defense, but the guys have got­.lated to more scoring opportu­ten in there, learned from their nities." mistakes, and we Also helping have picked it up out offensively Blackburn has a 4-0-1 record
"We have some

as a team." for Notre Dame against Notre Dame in his 
Standing in the inexperience on has been fresh­career. way for Notre defense. but the guys man Hyan However, none of those wins Dame is the Clobke. have come at tbe Joyce Center. 
have gotten in there, 

eighth-ranked This week Notre Dame is 1-1-3 in their Spartans. learned from their Globke was last five games against For the Irish to mistakes, and we have named CCI-IA Michigan State in the Joyce i{et their season Rookie of the Center. The last time MSU won
picked it up as a

l>ack on track, Week. Globke is at Notre Dame was in Oct. one major point team." second in scor-1997. Ihey need to ing on the The Irish feel like that even address is the team, and though they haven't started off
Conor Dunlop 

i: o a I t e n d i n g brings in a as well as they liked, they are
sophomore center

issue. four-game improving. When the sea­scoring streak "Every game we have
.. 
son began, coach into the MSU improved," Kimento said. "We Dave Poulin said Tony game. have got to be ready every Zasowski was the starting goal­The Spartans are led by night. Any team can win in the tender but Zasowski wasn't senior goaltender Joe CCHA." 

THE 28th ANNUAL 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Madrigal Dinners 
Fri. & Sat., Dec. 1 & 2 at 7 pm Sun., Dec. 3 at 2 & 7 pm Regina North Lounge 
Madrigal singers from the Saint Mary's College choirs, along with 
-1%1­period instruments, jugglers, ajester and a Master of the House entertain 
SAINT 

200 patrons perperformance during 

MARY'S 

For tickets call: 219/284-4625 
Thursday, October 26, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 31 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
SIi<! SIR! W AITI YOV ALMOST FORGOT YOUR BOLT CUTTER 

Fox TROT 
800000000000000... 
800000000000000...
_s1 .

_s 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 "C'est la vie" 1 Stupido 40 Secret 6 Per language 
10 Mountain 41 Orbital path, 14 Big band? 
usually 

15 California's 42 2.4-mil. member Valley union 16 City on the Oka 
43 Got back 17 Head, jocularly together 18 They have 
45 Silents star whiplike tails 
Jannings 20 Truck stop 
47 Child of the 22 Forgo cartoons 
23 "Moonlight" and 49 Put under 
"Farewell" 54 Nursery rhyme 
27 Very distant, as meal
space 30 Prove wrong 
57 Heading maintainer

31 Snow showers? 60 Pick up 
34 Bullets, to bettors 
61 Word with black 36 Mideast port or fire 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

24 Enough to wet one's lips 
25 Some hotel 

E L  L  I  S E  lobbies  
G L  A  D E  =-+=+ee+=­ T  E  26 Limitless  
E A T  E R  R E  E R  quantities  
T H E S  ¢  ..:;.E.i.;N.,;.i..;;.J..;..J  __._....._...,___.  28 Repeat  

62 Queen abandoned by Aeneas 
63 "Frasier'' dog 
64 Sort 
65 "Voice of Israel" 
author 66 California's Point 
DOWN 
1 Very impressed 
2 Speaker's 3 x 5 
cards, e.g. 3 Caper 4 Ask for hay, 
say? 5 Deeply embedded 6 Like some coaches: Abbr. 7 Hummus holder, maybe 8 Leaves undone 
9 Gear with a 
small number of teeth 10 Renewed 
11 Portfolio part, for short 12 E or G, e.g. 13 Goiter Ernie 19 Passed 
I THINK IT'S So CuTE THE WA.Y YoUR SISTER 15 
PRACTICING HER &HOST SoUNDS FOR Hi\LLoWEEN. 
\ 
,G2,,
'.:l,,,,..,,:...._. 
BILL AMEND 
MOM, SHE'S WATCHIIIIG "J'ERRY SPRINGER."_ 
800000000... 

... 
In a crunch, an old term paper makes a hell of a treat. 
HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jaclyn Smith, Lauren Tewes, Hillary Clinton, Pat Sajak, Cary Elwes, Bob Hoskins 
Happy Birthday: Don't waver, or you will miss out on the opportuni­ties surrounding you this year. You don't want to have to go back and start all over, so lay all your cards on the table, plan your actions thor­oughly and be precise in your execu­tion. The more preparation and development you do, the better things will turn out for you. Your nwnbers:15,29,31,35,38,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't push your luck with your part­ner. Take care of investments that will give you a tax break. You will enjoy social activities or trips as long as you can stick to your budget. 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will find it easy to clear up odd jobs. Your partner will be more than eager to spend time romancing. Don't rush formulating or signing important papers. Talk to those with more experience. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Pam­per yourself. Professional changes may be on your mind. Don't be afraid to take action and go after your goals. Partners will be quirky. Be careful how you work things. 
000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone at home may not be that easy to deal with. Go out shopping for that special outfit. The personal changes you make will be admired. Take a new direction professionally. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get out with friends or relatives. You can get a lot done on the home front. Idle time will work against you. Take 
EUGENIA LAST 

time to tie up loose ends. Someone important may be watching you. 
0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your moneymaking ideas will be superb. Family functions and trips look favorable. This is a good day to dear up any problems that have been plaguing your personal life. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You will be very sensitive and mustn't allow others to take advantage of your vulnerability. Talk to a close friend about your personal inten­tions before you decide to take action.00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful what you say to whom. Someone will be sure to twist your words. You will find love interests can be passionate as long as you avoid being too intellectual. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): Mingle with colleagues. You should avoid letting otners in on your personal life. Your reputation may be at risk. You will fly off the handle if you don't have enough to 
do.000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It is best not to upset the applecart. Go with the flow. You will have oppor­tunities to meet romantic partners if you get out and mingle with those who have similar interests. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel to see friends or relatives you don't get to see that often. You may want to concentrate on your future goals and the habits you ought to curb.0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can help someone dose to you with personal problems. Don't lend cash; just give good advice. You can make a change in your position. 000 

Puzzle by Joe DIPletro 
29 Something to complain about 31 Confused, informally 32 Hard to piri down 33 No longer warm 35 Stroked 37 Swabbies 38 Promotion 39 Adjust 44 Mock 46 Soup kitchen worker 
48 Impromptu 55 Pop 50 Person from 56 Immensely Malmo 
57 Perfect 51 Like a con 
58 News letters 
artist's business 59 Acquisition for 
52 Mysterious some 53 Force units vacationers 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 

Birthday Baby: You have such an intuitive mind. You can instinctively see what's going on around you, but you are reluctant to make decisions. You are charming, bright and can do well if you only learn to stop vacillating. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
© 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 



Travel in' 
Michelle Dasso made the quarterfinals at the Riviera All-American Women's Championships
PORT·S 
page 29 
O
THE 

r-
Watson and classmate Marc 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Striowski have outdone expecta­Associate Sports Ediwr 
tions. Ileading into the confor­cnce meet. both arc sure lwts to 
The Notre Dame men's cross be at the front of the pack. country team is alter its second "I know Luke Watson and straight Big East Championship, Marc Striowski arc going to run but it heads into the race a clear­well." Piane said of' his leading cut underdog. runners. 
Notre Dame is ranked 17th in Watson has captured thre1) t h C individual titles this season and
... 
nation, placed fourth in the Pro-National w e l 1 Meet. Striowski took l 0th in the b e h i n d See Also Pre-National Meet. fourth­"Keith Kelly IProvidence] is the
"Irish need stellar Big
r a t e d favorite," Watson said. "lie fin­pf O V • East showing to look ished ninth in ltw nation last idence year at nationals, so !'111 going to
ahead to Nationals" 
a n d kny off him and sec where that 
page 27
eighth­takes me." ranked Thn third and fourth runners Georgetown. At No. 21, Villanova for the Irish -Pat Conway and is no push-over, either. Todd Mobley -will also have 
"[t's going to be a real dogfight heavy loads to carry in the between four schools 10,000-metcr race. Villanova, Georgetown, "Pat Conway and Todd Mobley Providence and ourselves," head have run consistently all year," coach Joe Piane said. Piane. said, "but we're going to 
With four league schools have to have a much better fifth ranked in the top-25, the Big man." East is among the nation's most In the Pre-National Meet Parli­talent-loaded conferences. er this month, there was a big 
-
"The Big East is a loaded field drop-off after the top four 11nish­this year," junior Luke Watson crs. The fourth fastPsL Notre said. "It's one of the strongest Dame runner, Todd Mobley. conferences in the country." plaq\d l 00th, while tlw lil'th Irish 
The Irish lost the brunt of their harrier to cross tlw finish lirw, varsity squad to graduation or Scan Zandcrson, took 222nd. injury, including All-American Notre Dame will rac1\ nine run­Hyan Shay, leaving the still-solid ners Friday, so if any one or the squad in search of young run­final five runners has a career ners to step up. day, the Irish should bP in good 
Midway through the season, shape. 
FOOTBALL 

Mahan battles through troubles to start on Irish line 
Jenks with current Irish teammate Andy uated from the University in 1994. 1lis awav.
By NOAH AMST ADTER 

Wisne -:-responded with a senior sea­father, uncle and groat uncle also "Ji was a hard time, but I stuck it out," 
Assistant Sports Editor 

son for the record books. Mahan started attended Notre Dame. Mahan said. "Everybody at Notre Dame .. on both the defensive and offensive In addition to playing for the team he was great to me, it made it a lot easier 
When the Irish offense takes the field lines. grew up cheering for, Mahan feels that on me." 

Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium, junior 

On defense, the senior made 95 tack­his late father would be pleased by his After his freshman season. the coach­Sean Mahan will be making his first les, 56 for a loss. to go along with seven choice in colleges. ing staff made the decision to move start of the season at left guard in place 
sacks. On offense, "Coming here I'd Mahan to offense as a sophomore.of Jim Jones, who is out with turf toe. 
Mahan's blocking helped like to think that it Playing tackle, he played in each of the Mahan earns his second career start Jenks to a 14-0 record "Growing up I was makes him happy team's first 11 games, rotating with 
after also earning the nod last year 

and a state championship. always a big Notre Dame and there's a smile John Teasdale. 
against Boston College. 

Somo in Tulsa consider on his face," he Mahan earned the start against Boston
Fan. It's huge in my

While chm1ring fans in the student sec­that team the greatest in said. "I understand College, where his season ended with an
-tion will see a player who made 100 Oklahoma history. family." why he came here injured shoulder. pancake blocks in each of his final two 
Following the season, and why he liked it This year, Mahan again has played years at Jenks I ligh School in Tulsa, the 
recruiters from a variety so much." regularly, now rotating with lifth-year
Sean Mahan
fans know little of the difficult road of colleges began calling After leaving the senior Jim Jones.

Irish left guard
Mahan took to earn a spot in the Irish 

Mahan. When Notre Dame warm city of Tulsa, The junior credits conditioning and lineup. 
ca.lied, however, the deci-Mahan had to the coaching stalT for helping him get to At 16 -an age when the biggest con­
sion suddenly became an easy one for adjust to life in South Bend -and life his current position. 
cern in most young men's lives is finding Mahan. without taking the football field. As a "Si-nee high school I have gotten a lot 
a date for the next dance -Mahan was "Growing up I was always a big Notre freshman, Mahan played defensive line­bigger -I've gained probably 60 
forced to deal with tragedy when his 

Dame fan," said Mahan. "It's huge in my man, but never cracked the lineup. pounds," he said. "The coaches have father, Michael, passed away. 
family." Adding heartache to the adjustment, taught me a lot of technique, it's all While many young men would get lost 
Notre Dame has a definite place in the Mahan received word late in the season in the grief, Mahan -who attended Mahan family as Sea.n's sister Lisa grad-that his mother had suddenly passed 
see MAHAN/page 26 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish aim for upset victory in conference meet 

vs. Michigan State Men's Swimming Today and Friday, vs. Kalamazoo
Cross Country ~
SPORTS ~ 
' 

7:05 p.m. Friday, 6 p.m.
Big East Championships 
ATA 
at Boston

• • Women's Swimming vs. Air Force 
Friday, 9 a.m. 

vs. Miami ~ Saturday, I :30 p.m. 
..: 
Friday, 5 p.m. 
GLANCE 





