
Blair Witch flop 
Final face-off 
Movie critic Jude Seymour describes Blair 
The College Democrats and College Republicans 

Thursday
Witch 2: Book ofShadows as lacking plot and 
make a final pitchfor their respective candidates 
containing overly graphic images. 
prior to Tuesday's election. 
NOVEMBER 2, 
Scene . page 14 
Viewpoint . page 13 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 47 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


WVFI makes official switch to global broadcasting 
Global Internet broadcasts for WVFI from broadcasting global­By MIKE CONNOLLY its campus radio station puts ly. After just three weeks of glob­Ntws Writer 
Notre Dame on the same level as al broadcasting, the signal was most of the top 25 schools in the restricted to campus Internet 
For 20 years, WVFI has existPd country, according to Nicole connections only. only within the Notre Dame bub­Dctorie, promotions djrector. She Frick said the University was ble. But on 01.:t. l 1, af'ter two said all of the top 25 schools in concerned that student disk jock­years of negotiation with Student the country, with the exception of eys did not conduct themselves Activities, the "Voice of the MIT, have globally-broadcast stu­professionally enough to merit Fighting Irish" began global dent radio stations. global broadcasting. The station Internet broadcasts and. for the The large number of college worked hard to gain the trust of first time, reached the entire Internet radio stations was an the administration and earn the Notre Dame nation. important factor in convincing right to broadcast globally, Prick 
"It's not simply a student com­the University to allow WVFI to said. munity or an alumni community, broadcast globally, Frick said. "It was a matter of proving to it is an international communi­"It just seemed glaringly obvi­the Notre Dame administration ty," Adam Frick, WVFl station ous that Internet radio was not that we were a responsible 
manager, said at a press confer­just a fad," Frick said. group," he said. ence Wednesday, officially Although October marks the The switch to global broadcast­
announcing the station's switch first month vVVFI has officially ing has greatly improved staff to global broadcasting. 'To truly broadcast globally. international morale. according to assistant be the 'Voice of the Fighting listeners have occasionally been station manager Danny Goodwin. improved greatly, according to Currently the station broadcasts Irish,' we had to be internation­permitted to hear the station. "When we weren't global and Frick. every home and away football al." When WVFI first started we were just feeding to campus, "We are light years ahead of game. Sports programming 
People with access to the Internet broadcasting in August the morale was down," Goodwin where we were last year now director CJ Murray hopes to add Internet and Heal Player installed 1999, the station could be heard said. "Now that we are global, that we are global," he said. home men's and women's bas­on their computer can listen to by anyone vvith an Internet con­everyone is up beat and everyone. With its new global status, ketball games, home men's and WVPJ by logging on to nection. WVFI's contract with the is early for the shows." WVFI expects to expand its cov­women's lacrosse games and ,vvfi.nd.edu. University. however, prohibited The quality of the station has erage of Notre Dame athletics. home baseball games. 

Keeping an eye on IDs 
Cards serve important purposes in students' daily lives on campus 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER News Writer 
Every time a student swipes an ID card on campus, whether to gain access to a dorm or eat at a dining hall, a computer on campus records the date, time and location along with the identi­fication of the person whose card was swiped. 
The information is stored on various computer systems, including one to store information about dining hall access, usage of Flex points or Domer Dollars and access to gyms or other activ­ities. Another system stores information about dorm access. 
According to Tina Durski, Card Services Manager, the number of people who have access to this information is limited. If there is a dispute 

University-issue identification cards such as the ones pictured

as to the number of meals students have eaten, dining hall employees can access a history of above give students access to information and privileges main­when the student has eaten in the dining hall for tained by computer systems in place at Notre Dame. the past week on the computer in eat;h dining hall. student's identity each time they swipe a card. 
RecSports employees do not have access to the database, "The policy is that employees should be looking at the pic­although information is automatically entered into the data­ture fwhen they swipe a student's cardJ. Sometimes in the base when students enter the building. The thrne members dining hall, they get busy and can't, but I hope at the book­
of the Card Services Office can view the entire history of store they are looking at the picture [because the purchases transactions. arc larger]," Durski said. 
Durski said information is stored in the databases for the In the past. ID cards included a student signature but ones academic year, and is then filed away and not immediately made now do not. available. However. the office could access the information if The practice of having student signatures on cards was 
the need arose. discontinued because of time concerns, and the fact that the 
The information collected when a student swipes his card only place the signature would be used on campus is at the is not reported on an individual basis to offices, but is some­bookstore. times used to generate reports of usage. "Three years ago, you used the magna-doodle pad and it 
"We've designed special reports so RecSports can see how could take up to eight tries signing before it was successful. It many people are using the facilities," Durski said. was frustrating for everyone. It's nice for the ID cards to The main security feature on each ID card is the student's picture. which employees arc supposed to use to verify the see CARDS/page 4 



STUDENT SENATE 



Resolutions will address social space 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate passed resolutions 
Wednesday night to ensure all students 
have access to 24-hour space in their 
dorms. The resolutions also states a uni­
form policy must be posted in the 24-hour 
space so rules are consistent from dorm to 
dorm. 
"All residence halls have designated space 
for 24-hour use, but some dorms do not 
have adequate facilities and some 24-hour 
space is shut down when the security moni­
tor leaves," said Lewis Hall senator Luciana 
Reali. "This conflicts with a statement in 
DuLac which says all residence halls should 
have 24-hour space." 
"What we're moving for here is uniformi­
ty," said Zahm Hall senator Ryan Becker. 
"We have met with Bill Kirk and Jeff Shoup 
[of Residence Life] and they agree the rules 
should be uniform. We want to improve 
communication with the students." 
Sorin Hall senator Kevin Berchou said 
because some monitors have worked for 
several years, they are not aware of policy 
changes and thus rules vary from dorm to 
dorm. · 
"We feel it's a problem," Berchou said. 
"We don't think girls dorms should have dif­
ferent rules from guys dorms and vice 
versa. There should not be any discrepan­
.
cies. " Becker said the resolutions aim to accom­
sec SENATE/page 4 

'  
Thurs~ay  
Friday!  
Satur~ay  
(  
Sund~yl  
Mo~f!Xr,/'-c ""  
4,~-~p~Q (f Showers T-sforms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny  ~ u Pf. Cloudy Cloudy  
Via A•:u>cJ.tt•d Press GraphicsNel  


I 
Thursday, November 2, 2000

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Bean informed voter 
Recently, I spotted a tabloid magazine with a huge picture of'George W Bush and the head­line: "Too Drunk to Fly." Initially I laughed, but I had at least rnscarched enough about Bush before allowing "The Globe" to influence my opinion of him. 
However, many people 
will look at that picture and 
faintly recall that they once 
heard from somebody who 
talked to their neighbor who 
saw on the news that the 
anchor said a newspaper 
reporter wrote that Bush 
might have allegedly dab­
bled in drugs. 
To this person, that head­
line might be enough for 
him to dismiss Hush as a 
drug addict unlit for the 
Oval Office. However, even if 
Bush might have been heav­
ily involved in drug use, 
"The Globe" has never been 
one to understate a news 
story and it is doubtful that during the middle of 
the campaign Bush's staff would permit him to 
be visibly drunk before the media. 
There are similar situations with Gore as well. 
Sadly, people form opinions about the candidates 
on small bits of news like this. Even worse, only a 

small percentage of people know anything about 
candidates outside of the Democratic and 
Republican parties. There are still people who 
can't identify Ralph Nader or Pat Buchanan. 
although Buchanan once had notoriety among 
Hepublicans. 
For the above reasons. it is key to be informed on the issues and the candidates. If one says that Gore is lackluster, they need justification as to why this indicates poor leadership skills. 

If one believes that Bush is unintelligent, it is necessary to be able to point out examples of how he is uninformed on issues and the relevant people involved in the issues. If one thinks Nader doesn't know about issues outside of the environ­ment and campaign finance corruption, it would be a more effective statement if that person knew enough about Nader to make it. 
Many politically minded students have very strong opinions, but our parents heavily influ­ence them and although for a point in our lives we may stagger from their guidance, we usually 11y back to the ideological nest they have pre­pan\d for us. Topping that with the fact that we have consistently shown ourselves to be the least likely age group to vote, politicians don't feel compelled to appeal strongly to us. 
There arc people who arc still basing their political views on one issue or one characteristic about a candidate they don't like. 
The reality is the president is on duty from his inauguration until that of the next president's. lie will address more than one issue over four or eight years. provided that he completes his term, and it is important to make sure that we inform ourselves on as much as we can before we vote. 
However. if you've looked at everything else and considered the information and still feel like it all comes down to the issue or the characteris­tic, you can base your decision on that if you want. As long as your decision is well-informed then you should celebrate, complain, cry or do whatever your heart dictates within reason after the election results. At least you can do this without saying a tabloid magazine dictated your actions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Jason McFarley  Amanda Greco  
Kiflin Turner  Graphics  
Courtney Boyle  Dana Mangnuson  
Sports  Production  
Tim Casey  Brian Kessler  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Patrick Otlewski  Shannon Bennett  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation p,riods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pre,., All rcprnducLion rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Texas A&M cancels off-campus bonfire 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Almost one year after the 1999 Aggie Bonfire collapse. members of Keep The Fire Burning (KTFB) have canceled their plans for an off-campus bonfire. Amid controversy concerning his leadership role, Texas A&M University Student Body President Forrest Lane is encouraging students to focus their energy and time on planning for a successful 2002 Aggie Bonfire. 
Lane said that he knows some stu­dents are still campaigning for changes in the parameters set forth by A&M President Dr. Ray Bowen for Bonfire 2002, but he said their efforts are futile. 
"I don't understand advocating something that won't be changed," Lane said. "The parameters will not 
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 
College will publish sex offenders 
A small provision buried deep within technical amend­ments to Department of Education regulations is causing big controversy on university campuses. The provision would require colleges and .universities to inform their students about local sex offender registries. The trouble with such a provision lies in the constitutionality of the clause. Despite such difficulties, Washington University administrators plan to comply with the policy. The issues being raised in the controversy over this legislation are similar to those that came up when the first Megan's Laws were passed around the country. Megan's Laws were first passed after the 1994 rape and murder of 7 ­year-old Megan Kanka in New Jersey. She was killed by a neighbor who was a paroled sex offender. Eventually, all 50 states passed some sort of legislation requiring sex offenders to register when they moved into a new county and allowing citizens access to the lists of registered sex offenders through their local police departments. How much information is available to citizens depends on the city or county keeping the records. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather fbrocast for daytime conditions and high lempemtures 
' 
be changed." 

KTFB board members have spoken out against Lane, accusing him of pur­suing personal interests and those of the administration, instead of those of the students. When asked about refusing to represent KTFB, Lane 
UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO 
Web site promotes votes for Nader 
Supporters of Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader are divided over a fast spreading volunteer move­ment that encourages voters to trade votes for Nader with voters in other states. Nadertradcr.org is a Web site that serves as a clearinghouse for the last-minute cam­paign. The movement is the result of growing fears that Nader's candidacy could cost Democratic presidential candidate Al Gore votes in key states. "We've all heard it, 'A vote for Nader is a vote for Bush,"' states an introduc­tory paragraph about the site. "Wouldn't it be great if you could both vote for Ralph Nader and vote against George W. Bush? Now you can become a Nader Trader." The Green Party needs 5 percent of the votes in the Nov. 7 election to qualify for federal campaign funding in the 2004 elections. The Web site encourages voters in states where polls show a close race between Gore and Republican presidential candidate George W. Bush to vote for Gore, while encouraging would-be Gore voters in states where Bush will be the obvious victor to vote for Nader. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 2. 
Lmes separate high temperature zones for the day 
FRONTS:

10, ~ ..._.._ ...... 

C 2000 AacuWulher, Ina, CDW WARM S'rATIONARY 
Pmmn: 
®© ...... 
High Low snow•r• R¦ ln r.a,orm• FJurrlH Snow le• Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy \,VA,aacM/ed p,."" 
Atlanta  75  59  Las Vegas  63  45  Portland  48  39  
Ball,more  66  39  Memphis  79  64  Sacramento  72  49  
Boslon  54  45  Milwaukee  64  54  St Louis  70  64  
Chicago  66  55  New York  63  43  Tampa  84  59  
Houston  75  70  Philadelphia  63  41  Washington DC 68  41  

Saturday Sunday 
. Film: "A Perfect Storm," .Event: Fall Day on DeBartolo 101, 8 p.m., Campus, O'Laughlin 
10:30 p.m. Auditorium, Carrol 
.Film: "Ghost Dog: The Auditorium, 9 a.m. Way of the Samurai," . Exhibit:"Transformation Annenberg Auditorium, and Transfiguration'' by 
7:30 p.m. Samuel Bak. Snite Museum, 1 :30 p.m. 
said, "Our doors have been open the whole time." lie denied accusations of representing administrators' opinions. 
However, concerning an off-campus bonfire, Lane said he did not see enough concern from students to advocate KTFB's position this semes­ter; he said he could not address KTFB's concerns when he felt so many students were adamantly opposed to an off-campus bonfire. Student senators did a constituency study, which reflected a negative opinion of off-campus bon!ire among students. Regardless. he said, KTFB has not actively tried to work with student government to reach a com­promise. 
Lane iiaid the urgency lies not in battling over Bowen's parameters, but rather in planning for Bonfire 2002. 
Thursday 
.Lecture: 
"War: Women in Crisis.'' 4:15 p.m., Stapleton Lounge 

. 
Concert: ND Symphony Orchestra Fall Concert, Washington Hail, 8 p.m. 


Friday 

. 
Concert: Guster, Stepan Center, 7:30 p.m. 

.Workshop: 
"Chicana 2000! Emerging Identities," Haggar College Center, 12 p.m. 



Thursday, November 2, 2000 The Obse1·ver . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NEWS ANALYSIS 
Gore campaign focuses on Bush's inexperience 
. Some say former presidents faced similar shortcoming 
By TARA MAHNESMITH News W'ri[er 
With much at stake in one of the closest presidential races the country has seen in nearly 40 years, the Gore campaign is using this time to convince voters 
directly. 

"I don't think Governor Bush is ready -based on his expe­rience. his record, his propos­als in this campaign -to be the kind of president that the American people need at this point in our history," said Senator Joe Lieberman. 
But even people outside the campaign recognize Bush's inexperience. 
"For some people, th.e gover­nor's lack of governmental experience 

t h a t 
B ll s h fl' CAMPAIGN 200U"' ~o:~ e~i~: 
docs not have the level of experience it takes to lead the country. 
According to the CNN/USA Today Gallup Poll, Bush has 47 percent of the vote, while Gore has 44. 
With onlv five days remain­ing, campaign strategists are hard at work trying to per­suade undecided voters in swing states to vote for their candidate. 
.Gore's campaign is using this last week to focus voters 
on Bush's lack of expe­rience. 
Tad Devine, a top Gore strategist, said the cam­paign intend­ed to capital­ize on the "tremendous 
sense of 
unease" that voters feel 
ccrn. He is governor of a state that does not have a very strong role for the governor, and the state legislature only meets every other year. As a result, it's dif­ficult to make broadly-gauged judgements on what he might do as president," said Robert Schmuhl, professor of American studies and director of the program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracv. 
Experts have qu·estioned Gore's effectiveness in target­
"It's valid. Bush doesn't have much experience. But I trust him. The people he chooses to work for him are smart people." 
Ryan Duffy College Republicans vice president 

ing Bush's inexperi­ence. 
"I don't know if it's really going to hurt Bush in the election. Twenty years ago, people made the s a m e 
over Bush's inexperience, the charges against Reagan," said New York Times reported on Sean Savage, associate profes­Monday. sor political science at Saint 
The campaign has certainly Mary's. "From Bush's perspec­focused on this issue, even if tive, Reagan still m·ade an Gore will not contribute effective president. Also, Reagan was elected by a com­fortable margin." 
Reagan was not the only "inexperienced" president; John F. Kennedy was charged with inexperience because of his age, and even Bill Clinton was considered unqualified, especially in comparison with both the elder George Bush and Bob Dole, Savage said. 
"Clinton had no foreign po!i­cy experience in 1992, but the election was decided almost entirely on economic and domestic issues," he added. 
One of the supposed goals of Gore's campaign will be to get 



1st Prize 
(One) $100 Gift Certificate to Best Buy 
Granger Station Near Martin's 
12980 State Road 23 
Suite F 
Granger, IN 46530 219/239-9351 800/522-6611 
2nd Prize 
(One) $50 Gift Certificate to Barnes & Noble 
r/j 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 

Office Hours 
Monday -Friday 
10:00 a.m. -6:30 p.m. Saturday 9:00 a.m. -2:00 p.m. 
ATMs 

24-Hours a Day, 7-Days a Week 
No purchase necessary. Contest ~ins November 3, and ends December 15, 2000. One entry per person. Must be 18 years old or older to participate. Toe drawing will be held at noon (12:00 p.m.) on December 15, 2000. Need not be present to win. Employees of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union and their immediate family memberS are not eligible to win. Tois promotion Is only being offered at the Notre Dame Federal Credit Un10n Granger StatiOn locabon, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union is iodependent of the University. · 
voters to focus on issues not necessarily at the forefront in the election, thus stressing Bush's lack of experience. 
"As governor, he has not been exposed to a number of subjects that a president needs to know about," said Schmuhl. 
"I think it's better to have someone who knows some­thing about these issues, but Bill Clinton did okay," said Michael Francis, assistant provost of Campus International Development and professor of government. But he suggested a difference between Clinton and George 
W. Bush: Clinton is more intel­ligent, whereas Bush may require excellent advisors. 
Bush will rely on people's confidence in both his experi­ence and his character to get him through such charges. Ryan Duffy, vice president of College Republicans, said "It's valid. Bush doesn't have as much experience. But I trust him. The people he chooses to work for him are smart peo­ple." 
"But President of the United Siates is the most important, complicated, demanding job in the world. And when you look at the relative experience of these two candidates and how they've handled what their record is, how they handle the experience, I just think that Al Gore is so much more ready to be a great president," Lieberman said Tuesday on the Larry King Live show. 
The Gore campaign's argu­ment is valid, and the ability of Bush is questionable, said Jeff Stuffings, President of College Democrats. 
"Does it matter that Bush lacks experience? Absolutely," he said. 
However, Stuffings questions the affect this tactic will have on voters, 
"It probably won't make much of a difference in the election," he said. "But every vote counts. Whatever he can get with this final campaign, it's worth it." 

, 
l 
I I 
• 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 2, 2000 
last year when the resolution 
was debated. 
"CLC felt there was not 

continued from page 1 
Cards 
Senate 
continued from page 1 adequate research last year," she said. "It was before CLC have a signature, but the problems with 
plish two objectives. 
conducted a survey of rectors the signature outweighed the beneliLs," 
"Overall we want to clarify and before student senate l>urski said. 
the policies. The number one surveyed students. We have Students who lo6c their ID cards are 
thing we want to address is 
continued that research this expected to report tlrn loss immediately 
there has to be 24•hour year, I hope this would help so the card can be disabled. According to 
space available in each 
the resolution pass CLC." Durski. the authentication system for the 
dorm. Also general conduct O'Donoghue said the main cards is online and the first two digits the 
should abide by the rules in 
voices against the resolution machine reads from a card indicate the 
duLac," said Becker. 
last year were the six rectors card's number (01 being the lirst card Reali said communication on the CLC, but senators felt issued to the student). 

with students in a main con­
passing the resolution would If' the student's first card had been can­
cern. 

be a wav to work with the celled. the machine would only accept 
Some halls have "two feet 
rectors: rather than go 

on the ground" and "lightscards where the first digits were 02, 
behind their back. 

on at all times" rules andwhich prevents anyone from using the 
"I don't think we should lirst card to gain unauthorized access to 
because these are not clearly 
circumvent the rectors," said dorms or use of llex points. 
defined in DuLac or else­
Stanford Hall senator Curt According to Durski. 110 student has 
where. student'> arc left con­Roberts. "We shouldn't gornporlcd losing a card and then having 
fused. 
behind their back and try to Becker said ultimately rec­Domer Dollars or Flex points withdrawn 

work the system. I think we l'rom the card. 
tors will have the final say, definitely need their sup­''We're very fortunate. We've not really 
but the resolutions will aim port."had a problem with fraud," Durski said. 
to have similar policies from "By passing this resolution. 
If fraud did occur, Notre Dame's Debit dorm to dorm. we are respectfully submit• 
"If the· rectors want to
J\groement states that a student would ting our ideas to them," said 
make rules, that's fine,"
not be responsible for any loss that 
St. Edward's senator Seth 

Hecker said. "It's their dormoccurred after they reported the card Whetzel. "If we go behind lost. 
and they can manage it how 
their back, it might make 

If a student reports a lost card within they see fit. But it is our goal them mad and work againsttwo days of discovering that it was lost, 
to work with Student Affairs. us, rather than with us." and a theft had already occurred, the stu• 
Hcsidence Life and the rec­Becker and other senators 
tors to have uniform rules." 
dent would only be responsible for the said if the rnsolution did not 
lirst $50 that wa.c; lost lf the student does 
Student body president pass through CLC. they
Brian O'Donoghue informednot report the card lost, they may lose up would pursue other routes to In other senate news: no margin was designatedto $500. 
senators that a similar reso­solve the 24-hour space . Bethanv Barker told the and Pasquerilla West senator The fee for obtaining a new card is $30, 1ution had been brought to problem. senate that the sophomore Audra Higgins said the over• which is more than the cost of materials the floor in the Campus Life "We need to speak up on class's new signature event sight committee wanted to to print a new card. 
Council (CLC) last year. but these issues because we are will be an off.campus formal fix the situation before there "The fee has been around for a long 
did not receive a two•thirds the voice of the students," held March 31 at the Century was problem.time and is used as a deterrent [from los­
majority vote for passage. Becker said. "If it doesn't Center. It will be $20 per . McGlinn senator Melissa ing your card1. When you print one card, 
"You should not pass this pass we will find another person and will include a Hauch told the senate that it costs less than $30, but that doesn't 
resolution," O'Donoghue 
way." dinner. Each sophomore will there will be 35 computers
said. "I think it would beinclude the cost of purchasing and main­
"If they turn it down, we'll receive and invitation and available in the basement of taining the equipment to make cards," 
wise to work through the 
pursue other avenues. We then will have to RSVP. the library for DARTing this Durski said. 
system and try to get your need to show rectors that we . Senate passed a by·law semester. 
ideas across. If you pass the are serious about this issue that clarifies that the off• "I have darted by computerresolution and it goes lo CLC and we want their support," campus senator must reside every time, and I think it is and voted down, then it's said Fisher Hall senator Dan off campus and cannot have much easier. This is a good
Visit The Obsenrer 

dead ... We do not know Barabas. an on•campus residence. thing," Rauch said, addingwhat that body will do with Senate unanimously . Senate also passed a by­there will be more than
Wine. 

it, and I'd rather see some­
passed both resolutions law that said all letters of enough computers for each 
thing done through another which will move to the CLC nomination presented to the designated time slot and con• 
http://observer.nd.edu 
avenue." 

and then to Residence Life senate must be approved by sultants to help students with Reali said she was in CLC for final approval. a two-thirds vote. Previously problems. 

tftr: 
Qr[ando Consort 
C1'\ew Slrllwf,e,,rles, <:l'{_ew fX_u(I,errtes. ~cand ~tasiln5 In ~d\c-vaf (l.nd <Earf4t Cll_tr1C1lssa1tct <Europe 
Sunday, %veml'.ler 5, 2000 2 pm. A.._nnenber9 A.._u,ditorium, Snite %.seum 
6nckets ~quired: $3 students• S6 smlors • S8 'Nrr)/S!X(: cmplo-tt:£S • SIC aenerAf lldmlsslon 6r\ckm '1"Wllfa&fr: at tfte ~ortu.n,: <]lox Of.flee, (219) 631-8128 

cF,r comp(t11t In Ol'!Nltlon, visit htt ://www.n4.1ttfu/~,,.on el'S"" call (2191 £,31-6201 

leave your quarters at home. 
~is paying for a load of your laundry on sunday, november sth 
Vthe washers and dryers in lafortune and badin can only be used if... 
ti'you sign up at lafortune info desk for a time slot between 8am & 1opm... 
ti'and you get a free hour and 15 minutes to wash and hour and 15 minutes to dry... 
Notre Dame vending services 




ATION 
Thursday,, November 2, 2000 C0MPIJ,EIJ FH0M THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Army reservists march for Peru cop: Army troops pursued an elusive rene­gade officer in Peru's southern Andes for a third day Wednesday, as some 150 unarmed army reservists marched to the area to join the rebel leader's protest. Lt. Col. Ollanta Humala started took over a mine Sunday to start the uprising. challenging President Alberto Fujimori's authority and demanding the impris­onment of his ex-spy chief, Vladimiro Montesinos. Montesinos has been in hiding since his return last week from a failed asylum bid in Panama. 
Gas pump price proteststhreatened: Fuel protesters warned the government Wednesday that they are planning major traffic blockades unless swift action is taken to tackle prices at the pump. David Hanley, a farmer and chairman of the People's fuel Lobby, said as many as 25,000 trucks would converge on London for a Nov. 14 rally if the government does not announce in a pre­budget report next week that it will be cutting the fuel tax. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Senate passes export tax measure: 
Seeking to prevent political gridlock from sparking a "ruinous" trade war with Europe, the Senate passed a $4.5 billion export tax measure Wednesday to replace a system that the World Trade Organization deemed an ille­gal trade subsidy. The WTO had set a dead­line of Wednesday for the United States to act. 
One missing after train wreck: 
Authorities searched for clues Wednesday to the cause of a fiery freight train collision that left crumpled and charred cars sprawled across the snowy landscape. Three crew members were hurt in Tuesday's crash and another was missing and presumed dead in the wreckage, where names still lingered Wednesday. "It doesn't look good right now," Coconino County Sheriff Joe Richards said. One Burlington Northern-Santa Fe train rear­ended another that had stopped on the tracks about 10 miles west of Flagstaff. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Man confesses to slaying: A convicted child molester who in 1994 led police to a girl's body he claimed he found while chasing a runaway dog has confessed to her slaying, police said. Charles Daugherty, 29, was arrested Tuesday on a preliminary charge of murder. Daugherty, who was being held in the Marion County Lockup, is expected to be formally charged in a couple days. 
Market Watch 11/01 

Dow 
10,899.47 -71067

]ONES 
Composite
Up\ ame: ~
S489 Volume: 
1;799 ..... 
NIA 

Nasdaq: 3333.39 -36.24 
NYSE:.•~c:::z~•··§Sj~2,J~O~\Cil,!~J2ti 
S&P 500: 1421.21 -8.19 
TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE WORLDC:OM INC (WCOM) ~20.2; -4.81 18.94 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.26 -1.75 52.12 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -4.91 · 1.G2 3138 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.27 -0.12 44.88 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) -0.86 ·0.70 81.00 
UNITED NATIONS 
General A~e01bly welcoilles Yugoslavia 
newly ele.cted president, important step will be in the General Assembly.
A.sociated Pre•s 
Vojislav Kostunica. taken toward reconcilia• But last Friday. a month NEW YORK After General Assembly tion, stability and peace after ousting Milosevic in Yugoslavia's new demo­President Harri Holkeri in a region that has been elections, Kostunica proclaimed the Federal ma~ked by so many tri­requested the Federal
cratic government joined 
the United Nations on Republic of Yugoslavia a als. llepublic of Yugoslavia be Wednesday, opening a U.N. member. the Under Milosevic, admitted. His application new chapter in Belgrade's Yugoslav delegation was Yugoslavia had refused to moved quickly through relations with the led to its seats in the comply with the General the U.N. bureaucracy, international community General Assembly hall Assembly's 1992 demand with the Security Council after eight years of U.N. where a "Yugoslavia" that it apply for U.N. recommending Tuesday ostracism under former nameplate was placed in admission as a new coun­that the General strongman Slobodan front of them. try following the breakup Assembly approve it. Milosevic. "With legitimate pride, of the Yugoslav socialist All four former 
By acclamation and the Yugoslav people are republic in the early Yugoslav republics of 
going to take their right­1990s. Bosnia, Croatia,
with a loud round of 
applause, the 189-mem­ful place in the concert of Milosevic had argued Macedonia and Slovenia, ber General Assembly nations," French that his government was which are now indepen­overwhelmingly approved Ambassador Jean-David the legitimate successor dent states and U.N. Yugoslavia's application Levitte told the assembly, state and didn't need to members, co-sponsored for U.N. membership and speaking on behalf of the apply. As a result, the assembly resolution, hailed Belgrade's democ­European Union. Yugoslavia was barred which was adopted with­ratic transition and the "Also this evening, an from speaking or voting out a vote. 
TAIWAN 


Associated Press 
TAIPEl 

Families of Singapore Airlines crash victims flew to Taiwan to retrieve their loved ones' bodies Wednesdav as officials worked to figure out ;hat caused the plane to burst into flames during takeoff, killing 79 people -at least 23 of them Americans. 
Survivors have said they felt Flight SQ006 hit something as the plane bar­reled down the runway. But as emer­gency workers pulled bodies from the charred, blue-and-tan wreckage Wednesday, early speculation also pointed to wind as a possible factor in the Boeing 747-400's accident: At the time of takeoff, the airport was being lashed by the swirling gusts and tor­rential rains of an approaching typhoon. 
Some relatives of those who died have blamed the pilot, Captain C.K. Foong. On Wednesday, one woman pounded the counter at a Singapore Airlines ticket counter in Taipei and shouted at the company's employees, "How could you take off in this weath­er?" 
But the airline -which had not had a major accident in 28 years of opera­tion -defended Foong's decision. 
"Conditions were well within safe operational limits," company spokesman Rick Clements told reporters in Singapore. He noted that a flight by Taiwan's China Airlines took off just 15 minutes before Singapore Airlines' takeoff. 
Taiwanese aviation official Billy Chang said Tuesday night's visibility levels of 1,650-1,980 feet at Chiang Kai-shek International Airport exceed­ed the minimum requirement of 660 feet needed for takeoff. Measuring safe wind speeds is more complicat­ed, but the gusty winds were not excessive, he said. 
In general, control towers in Taiwan monitor wind speed and direction, vis­ibility, air traffic and other factors before authorizing takeoffs, especially during storms such as typhoons. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 2, 2000 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

SMC may add more technology 
. Some members worry about means to fund improvements 
By KATIE MILLER 

News Wrirer 
Technology Task Force co-chair Julie Stormc met with Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) Wednesday to discuss the strategic process of the College's developing curriculum. 
A long-term plan being devel­oped by the task force includes evaluation of information technolo­gy, !:ltudenl development in techno­logical knowl(1dge, marketing and diversity. 
Storme discussed the integralion of increased technology in the cur­riculum. addre!:lsing the question of whether or not Saint Mary's had an obligation to make sure its graduates have "technological flu­ency." 
"llow can we make this happen? We would like to reconfigure cur­riculum, not add more credits. We 
need  to  set  goals  to  move  
towards," said Storme.  
Storme introduced a  variety of  

ideas that could increase technolo­gy in student life. 
"We need technology available across the board. We could have a technology portfolio or a learning contract," said Storme. 
Besides the discussion of tech­nology education, the issue of financial availability for improve­ments was raised as well. 
"When you are talking about technology, money is an issue. We need to be concerned that there is a level playing field. If there is a set standard, students that came with a better background in tech­nology would have an edge to those who didn't. There should be a wav for students to make accom­plishrnents no matter their initial level," said student trustee Molly 
Kahn. 

Siorme encouraged BOG to con­
tribute their ideas to the task force 
and to encourage all students to 
respond. 

"If you haven't heard from other 
student groups, contact them -if 
you are the squeaky wheel, it will 
happen,'' said Storme. 

Teresa Lorenz from the Student 
Environmental Action Coalition 
asked BOG for their support in 
implementing plastic and glass 
recycling to Saint Mary's. Lorenz 
used the College's mission state­
ment to support the environmental 
coalition's concerns. 

"Saint Mary's promotes a life of 
... religious sensibility and social 
responsibility. We feel that a reli­
giously sensitive school should pri­
oritize basic and fundamental 
Christian values. such as a com­
mitment to protecting God's cre­
ation. A school that promotes 
social responsibility should include 
an awareness for environmental 
responsibility," said Lorenz. 
Lorenz offered a four-step soiu­ticm. First, the school would con­tract an off-campus recycling pick­up service. Second, marked recy­cling bins would need to be placed accessibly on campus. Third, stu­dents would need to be educated on proper disposal. Lastly, the Marriott, responsible for providing dining food services to the College, including plastic products needs to cooperate as well. 
According to Lorenz. Saint Mary's roughly throws away 2,722 lbs. of glass and 12,081 lbs. of plastic a year. In addition to this, the use of plastic bottles at Saint Mary's is on the rise. 
"Twenty oz. bottle machines have been placed in all buildings. At the new Dalloway's and in 
120 North Main St. 

(219) 255-7737 Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 Fax: (219) 259-9579 
~..!'Ii-----~ 
Restaurant 
T.J. Laughlin 
General Manager Class of 1973 

Earn $20/hr! 
MCAT. MCAT MCAT MCAT 
Still waiting fort.hat killer test score to bring in some cash? 
Here's your chance 1 Call 1-888-581-8378 or __, email info.~hicago_~review.c~m 
Tlie 

tor a teaching pos1t1on today.  (!:;inceton  
Review  
www.review.com  1.888.581.8378  

Madeleva, there is an increased 
use of plastic bottles without a 
place to recycle them," said 
l,orcnz. 
BOG gave their support to 
Lornnz and the student environ­
mental action coalition, but sug­
gested that Lorenz also present the 
concerns to the administration. 
"We're here for you as the 
board. and for what funding nec­
essary; the door is open." said stu­
dent body president, Crissie 
Renner. 
"I don't see why it is their (envi­ronmental coalition) responsibility. It should be looked at through the eyes of the college. It's a huge responsibility: Co to the adminis­tration, we are many years behind. I give !the students) great credit for bringing this up, it needs inte­gration in the college policy," said Kahn. 
In other news: 
. 
Fall Day on campus is Sunday, Nov. 5. Six hundred and fifty peo­ple are expected to attend 

. 
Student body president and vice-president elections will take place the first week of February. Informational meetings will start after Thanksgiving. 

. 
Student body president Crissie Renner and student body vice­president Michelle Nagle met with Keith Dennis, vice president for finance and administration, regarding concerns about Dalloway's and munch money. Renner has received a great deal of student concerns in response to these issues. 

. 
Akmaral Omarava, president of the student diversity board, has submitted a proposal to residence life for additional handicapped access. 

. 
Operation Christmas child boxes are due November 13-18. 



NEWS BRIEF 
Train service suspended: The Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD), owner and operator of the South Shore railroad line, announced that a building project will temporarily suspend train service between South Bend and Miller, Ind. 
The suspension of service will begin at 3 a.m. Priday 
and last until 2 a.m. Monday. It will affect all service 
between the South Bend and Miller stations, and no 
alternate form of transportation will be provided cast 
of Miller. Train service will continue as usual between 
Miller and Chicago. 
Service is being suspended due to the replacement of the right of way bridge over the Bethlehem Street entrance al Burns Harbor, Ind., from Friday through Sunday. 
ND orchestra to perform tonight 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will present its fall concert today at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The concert is free and open to the public. 
The program will include Prokofiev's Lieutenant Kije Suite, Weber's Overture to Der Freischutz, Bernstein's Symphonic Dances from West Side Story and the Korngold Cello Concerto, featuring Notre Dame fac­ulty member Karen Buranskas playing cello. 
Prior to the concert, there will be a discussion and partial screening of Deception, the 1947 movie starring Bette Davis and Claude Rains from which the Korngold concerto is 
taken. The discussion will 
begin at 7:15 p.m. in 
Washington Hall. 
The symphony orchestra is under the direction of Daniel Stowe, assistant professional specialist at Notre Dame. Stowe holds degrees from the University of California, Davis; the University of Southern California and Cornell University. 
In his fifth year as con­ductor of the symphony orchestra, Stowe also con­ducts the Notre Dame Glee Club and Collegium Musicum and is a member of the plainchant ensemble Schola Musicorum. 
For more information on this or other events spon­sored by the Notre Dame music department, call 631-6201 or visit the con­cert series Web site at www.nd.edu/-congoers. 


September 1 

September 15  David Overbeeke (Gen. Manager E-business, GE Aircraft Engines) "Business to Business E-commerce"  
September 29  Geoff Robertson (Vice President of Engineering, mvp.com) "Starting a B2C Company"  
October6  Michael Cullinane (Chief Financial Officer, divine interVentures) "How to Value an E-business"  
October 27  Colleen Sullivan (Dir. of Information Systems, Alltel Communications) "Data Warehousing and Mining for Building Business Intelligence"  

November3 Rick Spurr (Senior Vice President, Entrust Technologies) "Internet Security Threats and Measures to Deal with Them" 
November 10  Reuben Slone (Vice President of Global E-business, Whirlpool)  
"Supply Chain Management"  
November 17  Cheryl Aetterick (Manager, PricewaterhouseCoopers) "Conducting E-business Assessment"  
Dr. Anatole Gershman (Director, Andersen Consulting) 
December 1  "Emerging Trends and Technologies in E-commerce"  
All lectures held from 10:4oam-12:05pm  

Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business Notre Dame facult~, staffand students arc \\Clcomc to attend these presentations 
Thursday, November 2, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
University receives ACE grant 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $200,000 grant from the 
W.K. Kellogg Foundation of Battle Creek, Mich., to support t h c recruit­ment and training of teachers for K-12 

Scully

schools through the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE). 
Founded in ·1993 by Rev. Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C .. and Mr. Sean McGraw. C.S.C., ACE is part of Notre Dame's Institute for Educational Initi-a.tives OE!). ACE recruits, educates and supports com­mitted teachers for under­staffed Catholic schools and provides college graduates with intensive teacher train­ing and opportunities to build community and grow person­ally and spiritually. 
The Kellogg grant will allow the ACE program to develop new avenues to hire full-time senior facultv for Notre Dame's Master· of Education program, and to build a fac­ulty with the knowledge. skills and dispositions needed to serve as moral and ethical educational leaders. The grant also will fund an addi­tion aI University-based 
supervisor to observe every ACE teacher each semester and maintain close contact with new teachers through correspondence and reviews of classroom videos submit­ted each semester. In addi­tion. the grant will allow the University to attract visiting faculty of national repute, an expert in educational tech­nology and additional Notre Dame faculty who will teach individual courses in their areas of expertise. 
"This award will provide immediate and significant funding to help ACE deal with the challenges of expan­sion," said Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., Notre Dame president. "The program has struck a chord across the nation with schools that are searching for teachers who exhibit dedication, passion and leadership, and ACE con­tinues to attracL an unusually high number of such student­teachers. So the program's success extends in two direc­tions, benefiting both the stu­dents and the schools. I am confident ACE will only grow stronger as time goes by." 
Established in 1997. IE! conducts research on schools and the educational process to help improve American educational policy and prac­ti cc. A major focus of its research is the education of students from disadvantaged backgrounds. It offers gradu­ate and undergraduate level courses in the sociology, eco­nomics and history of educa­
tion, educational psychology and education policy. 
The W.K. Kellogg Foundation was established in 1930 "to help people help themselves through the prac­tical application of knowledge and resources to improve their quality of life and that of future generations." Its programming activities cen­ter around the common vision of a world in which each person has a sense of worth; accepts responsibility for self, family, community and societal well-being; and has the capacity to be pro­ductive and to help create nurturing families, respon­sive institutions and healthy communities. 
To achieve the greatest impact. the Foundation tar­gets its grants toward specific areas. These include: health; food systems and rural devel­opment; youth and education, and higher education; and philanthropy and volun­teerism. 
When related to these areas, funding also is provid­ed for leadership, informa­tion systems and technology, efforts to capitalize on diver­sity, and social and economic community development pro­gramming. 
Grants are concentrated in the United States, Latin America and the Caribbean, and the southern African countries of Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, South Africa, Swaziland and Zimbabwe. 

Now's the time . ._ 
to finish your degree at BETHEL COLLEGE 

~ 


Adult Education for Today's Busy Lifestyles 
• Experience a nontraditional environment 
• Attend accelerated classes 
• 
Advance your career 

• 
Realize your dreams 


• Focus on values 
Call Today! 
219-257-3350 or 800-422-4251 adultprograms@bethel-in.edu 
Lecture puts 'human face' on death penalty 
By MYRA McGRlFF News Writer 
During Wednesday's lecture entitled "The Human Face of the Death Penalty," speaker John Krull, executive director of Indiana Civil Liberties Union (ICLU) urged people to focus on the "front of life" rather than enforcing the death penalty. 
"It is a complex problem but if we start young nurturing human life in all situations we can combat the problem," said Krull. 
The problem the death penalty poses for Krull and the ICLU falls on the expend­ability of life. They see putting people to death as underscor­ing the human condition. The 
bring up the

"They did not get there 
more we assist death penalty and participate by themselves -that's for discussion 
in the killing of the responsibility we s h o w s other individu­progress," said
have to take to combat
als the more Krull. devalued life the death penalty. We Members of 
becomes. have to nurture life. " the audience 
To expand on expressed con-his point fur-fusion on how ther, Krull to effectively recalled the John Krull see change. In attitude of a response Krull
ICLU executive director
prison guard assisting in an execution. 
"He said it was just a job and that he hoped it was over with soon because he had a school event to take his son to in the morning," said Krull. 
The attitude that death as an injustice to all involved makes Krull and other oppos­ing activists push forth the idea of respecting life instead of destroying it. 
Krull discusses how many of the people put to death for crimes have spent their lives being ignored or were placed in violent situations. Ultimately this reasoning sug­gests that the situations crimi­nals existed in led th em to their respective demises. 
"They did not get there by themselves -that's the responsibility we have to take to combat the death penalty. 
We have to nurture life," said Krull. 
Activists want to combat the problem of apathy toward oth­ers by nurturing life. Krull suggests pursuing these goals through active participation. Krull said that not only do we need to work for proactive schooling, but we also need to be a political participant as well. 
"We need to organize our­selves politically and get the vote out there," said Krull. 
Within the discussion for change Krull outlined progress made in opening political dialogue. Krull men­tioned change outside Illinois call for a moratorium on the death penalty. 
"In an election year, having 
a governor 
gave credit to power in little numbers. 
"What students discovered at Northwestern opened up the door for the death penalty discussion throughout the country," said Krull. 
Active student participation to free a wrongly convicted man from death row supports Krull's proposition to take an invested interest in the lives of others. Krull believes that as we become more involved, visible change is likely to occur. 
Along the same lines, Krull does not fantasize about the realty of the situation. Krull secs the death penalty as a large topic with many sides. 
"It is going to be a long struggle, taking at least the next decade to overturn the issues if not longer," said Krull. 


page 8 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 2, 2000 
student union 
HAPPENINii§ 
!iTUDENT UNION BDARD 
Movie: Rules of Engagement and The Perfect Storm 

11/2  Thursday  101 & 155 DeBartolo  
11/3  Friday  101 & 155 DeBartolo  
11/4  Saturday  101 & 155 DeBartolo  
Acousticafe  
11/2  Thursday  LaFortune Huddle  
Guster  
11/3  Friday  Stepan Center  
Free Laundry Day  
11/5  Sunday  Badin & LaFortune  

Ml!iCELLANEOUSICAMPU!!i-WIDE 
ND Symphony Orchestra Fall Concert 
11 /2  Thursday  
First Friday  
11/3  Friday  

"Ghost Dog: Way of Samurai" 11 /3 Friday & Saturday 
Volleyball vs. Boston College 11/4 Friday 
Walsh Wild Weekend 
Mara Fox Run 11/4 Saturday 
Volleyball vs. North Carolina 11 /4 Saturday 
Flipside Ice Skating 11/4 Saturday 
In-Hall Dances 11/4 Saturday 
Spanish Mass 11/5 Sunday 
Orlando Consort 11/5 Sunday 
Volleyball vs. North Carolina 11/5 Sunday 
FREE FLU SHOTS 11n-11110 Tuesday-Thursday Washington Hall 

lntercultural Center in La Fun 
Snite 
JACC 

Lyons Hall 
JACC 
JACC 

Walsh (formal), Lyons (formal), 
1030PM 0800PM & 1030PM 0800PM & 1030PM 0900PM-1200AM 0700PM 1OOOAM-0800PM  Tickets: $2 Tickets: $12  
0800PM 1200-0130PM 0730PM & 0930PM 0700PM  
1100AM 0700PM 0800-1100PM  

Welsh, Badin, Dillon, Howard, Cavanaugh 
Chapel of Holy Cross 0130PM 
Annenburg Auditorium 0200PM 
JACC 

Lafortune Dooley Room 0900-0400PM 


Thursday, November 2, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Salsa Ni[ht Every Thnnday 
Lieberillan challenges Hollywood 
Associated Press 
BOCA RATON, Fla. 

Vice presidential candidate Joseph Lieberman (D-Conn.) renewed the possibility of sanctions against the enter­t a in men t industry Wednesday, saying it has not done enough to stop mar­keting adult material to children since the practice was exposed. 
Lieberman wrote to more than 50 entertainment execu­tives, saying he and Democratic presidential candi­date Al Gore are holding to their position that movie exec­utives, video game makers and music companies must adopt appropriate safeguards within six months or face the possibil­ity of regulation. 
The Connecticut senator released the letter without comment while campaigning in Florida. 
Questions have persisted about how seriously Gore and Lieberman would challenge Hollywood, one of their party's most important sources of cash. Both have attended Hollywood fund-raisers during the campaign and critics have accused them of softening their position on regulation of the industry while collecting money from it. 
Republicans branded them hypocritical, an assertion repeated in response to Lieberman's letter. 
"By day, Al Gore and Joe Lieberman promise to get tough with Hollywood, but by night they privately assure their Hollywood friends not to worry," said Dan Bartlett, a spokesman for Republican presidential candidate George 

W. Bush. 
The letter reaffirmed the Democrats' promise, if elected Tuesday, to see that the mar­keting of adult-rated products to youth is controlled, through federal action if needed. 
"Our challenge still stands today, as does our deadline," Lieberman wrote. 
Gore and Lieberman, a long­time critic of excessive enter­tainment violence, sex and vul­garity, first issued their chal­lenge in conjunction with the release of a Federal Trade Commission report Sept. 10 accusing entertainment com­panies of targeting adult mate­rial to underage audiences. 
Industry executives argued they already had safeguards in place, but tried to mollify law­makers by announcing some steps. For example, major movie houses said they would ask theater owners not to show ads for R-rated films during G­rated movies. 
"The letter restates the posi­tion that Senator Lieberman took before, and our response is unchanged," said Hilary Rosen, president of the Recording Industry Association of America. Citing advisory labels, the association has said recording companies already give parents the tools they need to screen out explicit con­tent. 
Lieberman said some progress has been made in shielding children, especially by retailers and video game makers. 
But he said the movie and music industries have neither adopted a uniform policy on marketing nor agreed to seri­ous mechanisms to enforce their limited standards. 

Inappropriate marketing to children "is a pervasive, indus­trywide problem that will not be solved without an industry­wide solution," said the letter, sent to executives at Disney, Time Warner, Viacom and Sony, among many others. 
Meanwhile, Lieberman, trav­eling by recreational vehicle, mounted a hectic tour in Florida, a state also visited Wednesday by Gore and by Bush's running mate, Dick Cheney. 
A weary Lieberman misiden­tified the state he was in and the state governed by Bush when he spoke to about 4,000 people at Florida Atlantic University. 
He said he'd been in Hollywood, Calif., that morning when he meant Hollywood, Fla., and referred to Gov. Bush's education record in Florida, when he meant Texas. 
'Tm in too many places today," he said when someone corrected him. 
Florida offers 25 electoral votes Tuesday. Polls are a jum­ble in a state once considered easy for Bush because his brother, Jeb, is governor. 
Lieberman surprised his mother on her 86th birthday as she addressed about 650 senior citizens in Coconut Creek. "Mamma, I love you. Happy Birthday," he told her. He carried flowers and a cake on the stage. 
Later, in Little Rock, Ark., he encouraged supporters to the polls. 
"Now there's only so much we can do honestly," he said. "It ultimately comes down to all of you who are members of our family, who are members of the army that we want to mobilize." 
Clinton responds to Firestone tire recall 
. Law will alert public on potential car defects 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Responding to the fury over the Firestone tire recall, President Clinton on Wednesday signed a bill that requires automakers and sup­pliers to quickly notify the gov­ernment about potential safety defects. A citizens' group com­plained the bill is like a shiny new car with problems hidden under the hood. 
"The act responds directly to some of the key shortcom­
ings in identi­"There is no doubt in my Citizen. fying the mind that it will save Under the 
recent bill, auto­
lives and prevent future 
Firestone tire motive problem," tragedies.,, industry Clinton said, officials referring to could face
Billy Tauzin
the tires that up to 15
Congressman
lose their years in 
tread  and  
have  been  
linked  to  more  than  100  
deaths.  

While Bridgestone/Firestone Inc. has recalled 6.5 million tires because of concerns about tire separation, congressional hearings have disclosed that the issue did not come to light for some time after the manu­facturer had indication of a problem. 
"Some of the deaths and injuries associated with these tires might have been prevent­ed if automobile manufacturers and their suppliers had been required to provide the govern­ment with more timely infor­mation," said the president. 
The bill, The Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability and Documentation Act, was intro­duced Sept. 13 and passed Congress in less than a month. 
"The signing of this bill today just goes to show what can be accomplished when the American people demand it," said Rep. Fred Upton, author of the legislation . 
Rep. Billy Tauzin.whose com­mittee Id hearings on the Firestone recall, called the bill the most important auto safety legislation in 30 years. "There is no doubt in my mind that it will save lives and prevent future tragedies," he said. 
But the advocacy group, Public Citizen, said the law is flawed, because it doesn't go far enough in enforcing crimi­nal penalties and repeals a requirement that auto manu­facturers evaluate data on their vehicles to determine whether they contain safety defects. 
"The bottom line is that if you walk around this law and kick its tires, you'll find that it has flashy fenders and shiny paint, but is plagued with engine troubles," said Joan Claybrook, president of Public 
prison for 

hiding infor­mation on defects that lead to deaths or serious injuries. Maximum fines for companies will increase from $925,000 to $15 million. 
The criminal penalties take effect immediately, but other aspects of the legislation are phased in. Within two years, government agencies must begin rollover testing of vehi­cles, something the auto indus­try fought for years, and upgrade 30-year-old test stan­dards for tires. Within three years, all new vehicles will have indicators to warn of under-inflated tires. 
The bill also: 
. 
Requires automakers to report any relevant safety recalls or other safety cam­paigns in foreign countries to the secretary of transportation within five days. 

. 
Gives the secretary new authority to develop an early warning system that requires automakers and their suppliers to submit information and analysis concerning possible safety defects in vehicles and equipme11t . 


• .
. 
·: ..,.:...... ··::: 
...·., ·-:::::::::?/ 

September 28  October 5th  October26  
El Son De Aquf  Freddy Kenton y Los Ases Del Merengue  Benji y Su Merenbanda  
November2  November30  December 7th  
El Son De Aquf  El Son De Aquf  Fuerza y Alma  

The Club Landing • 1717 Lincolnway East• South Bend, IN. 
Thursday, November 2, 2000

page IO The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
NORTHERN IRELAND 
Attacks underllline peace accord 
rackets and personal animosi­on Wednesday, Trimble found
A.ssodat~d Press 
ties. himself locked in a worsening BELFAST On Tuesdav. an Ulster dispute with the two Catholic­The Northern Ireland peace Defense gunman killed 63-year­supported parties in the coali­ol d former Ulster Volunteer tion -particularly the IRA­
accord took a battering on sev­Force commander Bertie Rice linked Sinn Fein -over his
eral fronts Wednesday as Cabinet members clashed and in front of his wife. Hours later. powers to control the adminis­
Ulster Volunteer Force gunmen tration's meetings with theviolent attacks raised tensions. 
burst into the home of high­Irish government.
A booby-trap device planted ranking Ulster Defense membflr Such cross-border coopera­

in a traffic cone by suspected Irish Hcpublican Army dissi­Tommy English. 41, fatally tion was an important part of dents exploded when a pol.ice­shooting him three times in the the peace pact for Catholics. man tried to move it; the blast chest. The attackers also pistol­many of whom believe it will blew off his leg. The cone was whipped his wife. promote Ireland's eventual 
planted at the entrance to the The feud has claimed seven unification. police station in Castlewellan, a lives and forced more than 150 Last weekend, Trimble kept mostly Homan Catholic village families from their homes. his hard-line Protestant critics 
"This could end with bodies at bay by promising he would
south of Belfast. Police said a second booby trap nearby failed strewn all over north Belfast," restrict Sinn Fein ministers' said David Mahood, a closfl col-official contacts with the Irish
lo detonate. British troops, meanwhile, league of government were deployed into hard-line English. until the IRA
"This could end with
Protestant parts of north Belfast The r1smg makes good to try to suppress renewed vio­paramilitary bodies strewn all over on its promise lencc between the province's activity added to to disarm. He
north Belfast." 
major pro-British gangs, the pressures facing canceled a Ulster Defense Association and 
Northern scheduled Ulster Volunteer Poree. Ireland's joint David Mahood Friday meet­But after dark Wednesday, a Protestant­victim's colleague ing between 
Protestant man with tics to the Catholic govern­the Irish gov-Ulster Volunteer Force was ment, a fragile . ernment's killed and police said members four-party coali-health minis­of the Ulster Defense 
tion at the heart of the 1998 ter and Sinn Fein member Association were suspected. peace pact. Bairbre de Brun, the health 
Police said two gunmen burst The administration already minister in the Northern into the man's north Belfast has unraveled once this year Ireland administration. apartment and shot him in the because of the IRA's refusal to But on Wednesday. the Irish head several times as his girl­disarm, another elusive goal of government confirmed that its friend looked on. the peace accord. minister would meet with de 
The outlawed groups arc sup­The senior Cabinet minister, Brun anyway. posed to be observing a truce in Ulster Unionist Party chief "I will not allow David support of the province's 1998 David Trimble, in May per­Trimble to play party politics peace pact. But they have been suaded a majority of his with health and social ser­targeting each others' support­Protestant followers to restart vices," said de Brun. "This is ers since August in a feud dri­the coalition after the IRA not a defiant gesture. This is a ven by competing criminal oromised it would disarm. But professional gesture." 
ISRAEL 
Intense West Bank gun battle kills 9 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israel will hold off on retalia­tion against the Palestinians for the deaths of three Israeli soldiers, the government announced e a r I y Thursday, a f t e r Cabinet minister Shimon Peres met Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, defusing an explosive situation at least temporarily. 
Israel radio reported that the two sides would take agreed steps in the morning, and at midday, Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak would address their people by radio and announce an end to all violence. 
The soldiers were the first to die in combat since Oct. 1. Six Palestinians were also killed, as armed clashes intensified in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Denouncing what he called "grave escalation initiated by the Palestinian Authority," Barak convened a special session of his Cabinet. Barak's office released a statement saying that "the 

Cabinet decided on a number 
of appropriate steps." 
But the Peres-Arafat meet­
ing led to the decision to 
hold the fire, at least for 
now. Barak's office said the 
meeting resulted in "agree­
ment on a series of steps ... 
designed to renew security 
cooperation and an end to 
violence and incitement." 
The statement said retalia­
tory measures decided on by 
the Cabinet would be held up 
to give a chance for the vio­
lence to be stopped. 
In a statement issued by the White House Wednesday night, President Clinton wel­comed the development and said "I'm hopeful it will lead to implementation of the steps agreed to by both par­ties" at the summit. 
Each side blames the other for the violence. Israel says its forces have responded with restraint to Palestinian attacks. The Palestinians charge that Israel has used excessive force in putting down demonstrations. 
Peres, who shared the 1994 Nobel Peace Prize with Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Habin, trav­eled to Gaza for the meeting in Arafat's office. It was the first high level face-to-face contact between the two sides since Palestinian riot­ing erupted Sept. 28. 

!heflrild 6tlli11 low11. 
1LB. WEDNESDAYS 
>Gv, ohoioe ofI!.B olo,a/; ifyf.11h ot !t/Y2ltif.. 12.99 
!iyo_y Qi/Ji'!f ovl i/7 a/J!f WJ.!I wil/JjlliOJ Ch08jO si_yle .dMh i11 hfJ2.rle-#M t!ow!Jlow111olll/J 8e1Jrl. Pv/1ll(J II ohoit lo alent!Bt I/let f/lJ e.x/tf) tkof I-MN', ot ollt 11eo11;/l_y, 12 oz. ofV20A (Jtime ~w 'i&tK .rlti(J NMK. l!fNet O(Jlioll~ loo. 
> gou'" Bt;NO"S B\GGi;Q'T PAt?;TYc 222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND•219.234.5200 
222 S MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 219-234-520 .
•1 COVER (WITH COWGE ID, MUST BE 21) AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO, CALI. THE HEAR11.AND CONCERT & MNT UNE 219.251.2568•MORE PICTURES@WWW.HEAR11ANDSOUTHBEND.COM 
'----------------------------~~ 

-­ ~~--­ 
1 - 
Thursday, November 2, 2000  The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS  page 11  

Federal board supports graduate student unions 

cials. but there are 21 states with Beckman, NYU's spokesman. university, said many institu­
Associated Press 
"We wlll not deprive workers "right-to-work" laws that "These graduate assistants are tions fear that the NLRB deci­... of their fundamental statu­allow workers to hold jobs first and foremost students. sion could lay the groundworkWASHINGTON tory rights to organize and without joining unions or pay­They are admitted as students, for a reversal of a 1981Graduate students who work bargain with their employer, ing dues. not recruited as employees." Supreme Court decision that 
as researchers and teaching 
simply because they are also John Sweeney, president of Yale University, another pri­precluded faculty in generalassistants in the nation's pri­students," the board said the AFL-CIO labor confedera­vate institution where gradu­from collective bargaining at 
vate universities have the . 
Wednesday. tion, said the NLRB decision ate students have tried to private institutions. 
same rights as other workers Students and their labor "underscores what the gradu­organize, u·rged NYU to "carry "rt erodes a relationshipto form unions and negotiate allies immediately praised the ate workers have known all the case to federal courts if it between faculty and students,"
working conditions, the 
landmark decision, saying it along: their long hours spent has the opportunity." he said of the NLRB decision.
National Labor Relations· would help them tackle long grading papers, teaching NYU and others contend the "From grading to who should
Board ruled Wednesday. 
hours and poor working condi­classes and holding office b o a r d graduate to
The unanimous ruling 
tions. College officials say the hours is real work, done by excludes the curricu­
upholds a regional decision 
decision threatens the basic real employees of the universi­graduate stu­"We will not deprive lum thatfavoring the 1,500 New York 
relationship between professor ty." dents funded workers ... oftheir ~ight be
University graduate assistants 
and student, and threatens He said in a statement by outside taught, they
who voted to unionize this fundamental statutory 
academic freedom. 30,000 graduate teachers grants, could all 
year. The board's decision 
It does not apply to public already have joined unions. unnecessarily rights to organize and become sub­
makes NYU the first private 
universities. which have some "We are going to be seeing a dividing bargain with their jects of col­
American university subject to two-dozen bargaining units lot of union activism at other scholars. The lective bar­
collective bargaining with employer, simply because 
nationwide, because the pri­private universities because of board says its gaining."
graduate assistants, but the they are also students." 
mary labor law enforced by this decision," said Patrick decision cov­The wan­
students' votes on whether to the board applies to the pri­Mccreery, 33, a graduate stu­ers students ing influenceunionize remain untallied in a vate sector. Public university dent in American Studies. 'Tm compensated of the labor
dispute with university offi-National Labor
workers fall under state laws; going to be a partner in this by the univer­movement 
the University of Notre Dome Deportment al Music presents 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 

r.y,r.,1si01•in)r;; rir:1.t@$ --n@·V'rmz_,(fJ@'P l-5 (wrlt 6fJl6 efrlitY1r&ri t@ 
tt@'rffrlc~) 
·l!Jft@r1'unnit/! ricitfdl, -­tl-6101·@n1.#J'rn~ (;}-? (i11, 
6J.f(Af,ii,/) t,1 J) / @(!;/'I C,7.Jl l 
.
tfl} r*Jf!J"(r,j @Jtih,lel"f:;J/ 

Relations Board
relationship, as opposed to sity for ser­has turned someone who is simply told vices they unions' eyes what tu do." provide. to college 
Mccreery said the ruling will "They have created artificial campuses. In the mid-1990s, put students in a better posi­distinctions between different unions began offering summer tion to negotiate pay and other 'types' of graduate assistants," internships. benefits. Most students in arts Beckman said. Last year, the board reversed and sciences earn about The decisions can't be a two-decade precedent and $13,000 a year, but the uni­appealed. Beckman said the said medical residents, interns versity's own estimates say a university had not decided and fellows do have collective student needs at least $17,000 whether it would take actions bargaining rights. That ruling to live in New York City. that would "avail ourselves of cited other professions in which 
University response was the court system." individuals serving in trainee­sharp. Sheldon Steinbach, general ships, such as associate lawyers 
"They have shown a serious counsel of the American and apprentice architects, are lack of understanding of grad­Council on Education, which considered employees protected uate education," said John filed documents supporting the by federal laws. 

I NOVEMBER 2-J 

FOR r1nf. rl.r<Jtt(r.'I" SEND YOUR CRUSH A CAN OF ORANGE CRUSH. WHEN THEY RECENE IT, THEY CAN PAY ONE DOLLAR TO GET YOUR NAME. BUT tirm. 't '/(Jr&t'FJf' THE MORE CASH --"INSURANCE MONEY" --YOU LAY DOWN, THE MORE y@'llP rJrtttlt'. ,/ic,,,,., tr-} p(ftp TO DISCOVER YOUR TRUE IDEN­
TITY. ALL PROCEEDS GO TO BENEFIT· 
SPECIAL OLYMPICS cff, LOGAN CENTER 
SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
NDH AND SDH 
FIVE TO SEVE PM 
Prokofiev, Lieutenant Kije Suite 
Komgold, Cello Concerto, Karen Buronskos, cello tlrom !he ,947 film Deception, Morring Belle Davis and Claude RoinsJ 

Weber, Overture to Der Freischiitz 
Bernstein, Symphonic Dances from West Side Story 
Doniel Stowe, conductor 
Thursday, 8pm 
Washington Hall 
Please join us at 
7:15 pm for discussion of the program, including a screening of 
selected scenes from "Deception" 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Thursday, November 2, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
1'.0. &ox Q, N°'rc Dame. lN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, No<re Dam<, IN 465S6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Conn.oily 
MANAGING Eo!TOR BusrNF..SS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lme 

Assr. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Chrisrine Kraly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VmWl'OINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SroRTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith Scf.NE EDITOR: Amand~ Greco SAINT MARr's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS Al>MINISTRAT0R: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROll.ER, Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OrncE MANAGER/GENERA!. INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 
AoVER'TISING...................................631-6900l8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CttlEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE...................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................. 631-5303 observer.viewpoinc.l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB. ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire al http://obrerver.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up--ro-che 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online fi:atures for spe­

and rares of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives co search for 
about The Observer 

articles published afcer 
co meet che edicors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by che scudencs ofche University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Maiy's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either insticucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advcrcisemcncs based on concem. 
The news is reported as accuracely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edicorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edicor in Chief, Managing Edicor, Assistant Managing Edicor and department editors. Commencaries, letters and columns present the views of che authors and not necc.ssarily chose of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free apression of all opinions through lercers is encouraged. Leners 10 the E.dicor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Qur,tio,u rrgardillg Obunm polici,; ihould b, dim·t­«Ito Editor in O,i,fMilre Connolly. 

On Tuesday, I was one of the 600 peo­
ple inside fabled Washington Hall for the 
speech of Senator Joseph Lieberman. It 
was a wonderful experience, though 
filled with some conflicting thoughts. 
The first time I set foot in Washington Hall, during my freshman year ­1962, when the venerable building was a mere 81 · years old (about middle age for a Notre Dame edi­fice). It was hot. We filled out some kind of paperwork. Not long after, I remem­ber paying the $.25 going rate to watch a movie in Washington Hall. It was "Come Blow your Horn" (I think). Whatever it was called, it featured Tony Bill in one of his first roles. Tony later produced "The Sting" and became quite prominent in Hollywood. The big deal for us ND frosh was that he was a recent Notre Dame grad ("ND Boy Makes Good in Tinseltown"). I sat in the balcony, great theater. 
About the only other thing I remember about Washington Hall was the legend that the ghost of George Gipp roamed the building. Why would The Gipper have been in Washington Hall when LaFortune, across the way, housed Notre Dame's pool tables in those days? Just lost, I guess. 
Anyway, I was very pleased to see that Senator Lieberman was on campus. During my time around ND I had enjoyed several political figures. I saw Bobby Kennedy at Stepan Center and George Wallace in the old fieldhouse. I'm kind of a political junkie, so I enjoy being pre­sent whenever a national figure is speak­ing. (I saw Ross Perot in Olympia, Washington when he was really hot and had not yet showed he was also a little daft.) 
1 was visiting in Washington, D.C., in the early '50s, when then Vice President Nixon returned from a tumultuous trip to South America, and ! got to watch his motorcade pass by while sitting on the steps of the Washington Memorial. It almost took my adolescent mind off the 150 degree temperature. 
Unfortunately, I could not be merely a spectator for the Lieberman talk since I was wearing my security hat (I don't really have a security hat, this is just a metaphor, but you get the idea). 


Lieberman delivered a wonderul talk. 
He did just the right amount of sucking 
up to Notre Dame. Tasteful and appro­
priate. He joked that he was going to 
return to his alma mater and inform the 
president of Yale that they should aspire 
to be the "Notre Dame of the East." lie 
also related a terrific Father Hesburgh 
anecdote and even tipped his hat to stu­
dent body president Brian O'Donoghue. 
The only tense moment in the speech occurred when a young man. seated ten feet from me, yelled out something like "What about abortion?" The young man repeated his question. At this point, Senator Lieberman replied that he would later address this question or something to that effect. I was now forced to put on my security hat (I don't really have a security hat, well you get the idea). I qui­etly spoke to the young man. I told him he had made his point and asked if he would respect the rights of the others in the audience. He said he was bothered by the abortion issue and the Gore­Lieberman stand on it, but he assured me that he would not disrupt the talk. lie was true to his word. 
Throughout Lieberman's talk, I also found myself a little uncomfortable with inconsistencies between the rhetoric and the political positions staked out by the candidate. Lieberman spoke about the "value of human life" in some context, but I was reaching for my security hat when he said it -while checking my "Washington Hall neighbor" -because he was clearly not talking about his party's position with regard to partial­birth abortion. 
Fortunately, my new friend sighed and looked disgusted, but he suffered in silence. Lieberman also spoke about "merit based" selections, but he was clearly not talking about his party's posi­tion on affirmative action. Ile talked about the Ten Commandments and specifically mentioned the one about adultery, but he didn't mentidn any famous names from his party. He talked about the corrupting influence of some of our mass media, but while he said there is much that should be done, he seemed to indicate that nothing would be done, "because that would be censorship." 
Lieberman made a great point that persons who take their religion seriously seem to be the only individuals who can be the subject of public scorn and preju­dice. He pointed out that a media group he spoke with brought up "the Inquisition" when he spoke in defense of religion in our lives. Lieberman remind­ed us that the Constitution speaks about "freedom of religion," not "freedom from religion." Unfortunately, Lieberman for­
got to mention that it is his party who 
ridicules faith-based political leaders. 
After the speech, I went outside and 
found my new pal. This time, I was 
wearing my old alum hat and not my 
security hat-I don't really have "an old 
alum hat". but you get the idea. I 
thanked him for not causing any more 
disruption. l pointed out that the sub­
stance of the Lieberman talk was per­
fectly in line with the values espoused by 
"Right to Life" groups and the position of' 
the Catholic Church. We both agreed 
that we were troubled that the political 
views of Gore-Lieberman did not match 
his talk. 
My new pal questioned why a Catholic University would invite a pro-abortion­candidate to give a sanctioned talk. I !ere, I put on my Voltaire hat (I don't really have a Voltaire hat) ahd said "I did not agree with all of his views, but I would defend to the death his right to say them." Actually, I said it in a less elo­quent manner, but I like putting on my Voltaire hat. 
I have admired Senator Lieberman ever since he first entered the Senate (even though I'm not a big fan of the party who believes that Washington is the answer to all our problems). I do believe that Joe Lieberman is an honest and decent man strongly influenced by Judea-Christian beliefs, as he stated. 
Should Gore-Lieberman win Motel Six­teen Hundred, I hope Lieberman will be able to go to Gore and say something like, "Look, Al. that kid in the balcony at Washington Hall might have a point." 
For me, the most touching part of the event occurred just as the Senator was departing the campus. I was pn a group of people invited to chat with, him on his way out of Washington Hall. Ile showed a genuine human side while talking with each of us. One female student, wearing a Gore-Lieberman button, told him she would pray for him. Lieberman gave her a hug. I was moved by her comment and also by his reaction to a young person speaking in such a heart-felt manner. 
The election is only a couple weeks away. I hope every Notre Dame student has made arrangements to vote. Absentee balloting is painless. 
Cappy Gagnon, '66. actually does wear a hat when he's standing in the end zone at football games. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 

COULD YOU 

fINO IT NOPE. NO WITHIN JOB$ IN YOUR THERE. HEART ... 
) 





QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"!n America any boy may become President and I suppose it's just one of the risks he takes... 
Adlai Stevenson politician 
.----,­
O
THE Thursday, November 2, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
•I. J' I j i 
• 1 •••I•\,
l' 


IEWPOINT 
POLITICAL FACE-OFF: THE FINAL WORD 
Making a wise choice· for America 
Gore gives help to those Bush offers best opportunity who need it most for America's future 
After eight years ofunprncedented prosperity in America. it's time to extend help to the people who need help the most. Al Gore will provide opportunity and empowerment for hard-working Americans, whereas George W. Bush will College return us to our past Democrats practices of comfort­ing the comfortable. 
Jeffrey

Let's just think for 
Stuffings

a second what will happen if Bush is elected: School loans and grants will he cut so that we can lower the capital gains tax for the rich. The minimum wage will remain stag­
nant under the false pretense that it 
hurts the people it's meant to help. 
People will be thrown off welfare with­
out anyone helping them get the tools 
they need to go to work. The earned 
income tax credit will be slashed, while 
the top 1 pflrcent of income earners will 
receive one thousand times more tax 
relief than the bottom 20 percent. 
We will continue not to mind that prison inmates have healthcare cover­age while 43 million hard-working Americans do not; 200,000 preschoolers will be shut out of Head Start; 400,000 deserving students will lose their college loans. Millions of seniors will face dou­bling and tripling Medicare premiums. Handguns will be more common on our streets than police officers. Workers' pensions will be raided. Democracy will continue to be limited only to those who can afford to contribute liundreds of thousands of dollars a year to politi­cians. We will have dirtier air and water, and our wetlands and forests will be auctioned off to the highest bidder in return for short-term profit. 
Vice President Al Gore is going to help the Americans who need help the most. He is going to protect Social Security and Medicare so that our seniors do not end up sick and in poverty. He is going to strengthen sub-standard schools instead of shutting them down. He is going to bring us closer to universal health care, provide prescription drugs to our nation's seniors and pass a patients' bill of rights so that HMOs cannot deny cov­erage in the name of increased profits. The Gore tax plan is going to be more beneficial to middle income earners. 
When Al Gore says "middle income," he does not mean someone making over $200,000 a year. Families making between $20,000 and $60,000 a year will receive more tax relief from Vice 
President Gore than from Governor "My agenda opens wide the doors of Bush. opportunity for every man and woman a 
Meanwhile 64 percent of Bush's $1.3 chance to succeed; for every child a trillion tax cut will go to the top 10 per-chance to learn; to every family a cent of income earners. Finally, Gore chance to live with dignity and hope. l 
has pledged to pay down the national hope you will join 
debt. so that when a child is horn in me in this great College 
this country she or he does not already cause." 
Republicans
have $20,000 of national debt in his or Governor George 
her name. W. Bush will use his 
In addition, Al Gore is going to make ability and imple-Lindsey 
sure that the U.S. military not only pro-mcnt his effective Horvath 
tects our economic interests abroad, plan of action to 
but our humanitarian interests lead the United as well. He will make sure States through the beginning of that handguns are kept the 21st Century. out of the hands of Governor Hush will help the criminals and that next generation prosper by corporate interest5 beginning with educating will not lay waste to children. He has outlined our environment. a plan to restructure Gore will pass America's school sys­McCain-Feingold, tern to more effectively thus restoring and adequately edu­legitimacy to our ---~,,; cate children and pre­democracy. pare them for adult-There is no hood. While Vice chance that President Al Gore Bush would ~'4:i::::liiii-!! would like to aban­ever do any don accountability in such thing. local school districts 
We have a r:----and enact voluntary golden opportu-testing, Governor Bush nitv in this coun-will place greater try· to. in the words \ _ ac_countability upon the of Senato.~ Bill .;,,//, ,, i ·: local school districts and Bradley, fix the roof ~,· ,.,__ ~'? 1 implement mandatory while the sun is still -------~u_ • 1¥' testing to make sure chil­shining." We have a _.-............. g _ ,j7 .dren are succeeding in chance to make sure that ......,_ 0( .// school. Failing schools will be all Americans share in our ,t;/ shut down and the funds will be prosperity. Millions of hard--put toward paying for vocational working Americans have no access to schooling or entering other schools. affordable healthcare, college education However, the most important goal of or housing. Ifwe truly wish to be inclu-Governor Bush's education plan will be sive, we must extend a helping hand to to ensure a higher level of literacy at those who need help the most. If Bush is earlier ages. Not only will Governor elected, we will move backward to the Bush aid the children but also their par-days of big budget deficits, big govern-ents and the society at large. Twenty­ment, stagnant wages for middle income five percent of the national budget sur­earners and greater disparity between plus will be returned to all citizens in rich and poor. Al Gore has the experi-the form of tax cuts, whereas Vice ence, leadership and commitment to President Gore would provide tax breaks make this nation great. If we truly wish to less than half of the nation. The to see any semblance of equality of remainder of the surplus will be put opportunity in this country, vote for a toward saving Social Security for future 
Gore/Lieberman administration. generations and paying down the national debt, as well as other national 
Jeffrey Stuffings is the president ofthe 
expenses.
College Democrats Club. 

While Vice President Gore would 
The views expressed in this column 
neglect Social Security, Governor Bush 
are those ofthe author not necessarily 
will renew and strengthen the program 
those ofThe Observer. 

by providing riew terms and options, such as investing a portion of a person's payroll tax into personal savings accounts for increased profit. 
Additionally, health care reform will take place through modernizing Medicare, establishing wider coverage under health plans and providing greater prescription drug benefits. Vice President Gore would leave important health decisions in the hands over pow­erful, bureaucratic llMOs. 
Governor Bush recognizes the impor­tance of families and community in the structure of American society and will work to preserve their importance. He will empower parents to protect chil­dren from harmful material on the Internet, television or radio, as opposed to Vice President Gore's desire to limit free speech and expression. 
Additionally, Governor Bush will remove the excessive taxes placed on couples simply for being married, whereas Vice President Gore would not provide such protection for hard-work­ing American families. Recognizing that domestic affairs are of utmost impor-. tance to Americans, Governor Bush's focus will be on local national concerns. However, he does recognize the pressing importance of foreign affairs and has prepared for significant change of a struggling system. Governor Bush will strengthen the military and renew their morale. 
While Vice President Gore in the cur­rent administration has contributed to the failing and record low numbers of the different branches of armed service, Governor Bush will restructure the mili­tary to more effectively deploy troops and better spend funds, while also increasing funding toward military efforts to better prepare them to protect America. 
Most importantly, Governor Bush will be an effective global leader. Working well with advisors and foreign leaders, he will strengthen global partnerships and ensure safety and peace. Vice President Gore, who admits, "You ain't seen nothing yet," has not demonstrated such leadership and would not take the necessary measures to assert America's leadership. Governor Bush is the best candidate and will be the President that America needs. 
Lindsey Horvath is a member ofthe College Republicans Club. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Open discussion to discover truth 
One cannot truly understand their own position until they understand the oppos­ing position. This fact should be obvious in a college that prides itself on giving stu­dent,; a strong liberal arts education. It seems so simple -for example, it would be impossible to understand pacifism without understanding the position of those who believe in military intervention. 
So one would think that this prestigious university would allow opposing groups lo have their views heard, even if unpopular. People would laugh if the College Republicans were allowed to organize and the College Democralc; weren't. It would be one-sided and we would learn nothing, whereas the political exchanges between the two groups may have helped students decide how they will vote. 
The problem is this: The University will only let one side of many issues be heard. Why isn't a gay student association allowed to form? What about a pro-choice movement? How would students in sup­port of the death penalty fare if they tried to form a student group? How you feel on these issues is irrelevant, the fact is that Notre Dame students are being deprived of the opportunity to explore their own views in an unbiased environment. 
Now, I fully recognize that some of these groups may hold beliefs contrary to the University, and I do not believe that the University should have to l'und groups opposed to its views. But it should allow them to exist. If you have never been con­fronted with reasons in support of, say, the death penalty, how can you be con­vinced of your views? 
It is true we have the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) on campus. It should be renamed the CCSC, or Center for Certain Social Concerns. It is doubtful you will find a lot of opportunities to help with the feminist movement there or many other liberal social movements. 
I am not saying that the University's beliefs are wrong, in fact I would not be interested in many of the groups I have mentioned. While it is fair that the University should not have to fund organi­zations that are contrary to its mission, it is wrong to deny students the opportunity to explore both sides of an issue, without the university's biases interfering. 
Think back to your classes. Where did you really learn the most, in the classes where the professor espoused a certain model or in the classes where you could discuss various view points and point out strengths and weaknesses in either side? Usually you will learn when you can ques­tion, and it is wrong to deny students this opportunity. It is time to let thought run free, so students can discover their own truth, rather than being told what the University's version of the truth is. 
Kevin P. Suhanic freshman Morrissey Hall Ocr. 29, 2000 


MOVIE REVIEW 
'Blair Witch 2:' Book of stupidity 
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
Scene Movie Critic 
In the recent political debates, both Al Gore and George W. Hush have assured potential voters that thny seek to regulate the movie industry. While both candidates refuse to use the word "censorship," their mea'iurcs would, in practice, limit what is both seen and heard on the scre11n. 
Ilollywood and free speech advocates are tions and other overly violent images. The third clement that is also gratuitous is the drinking and pot-smoking. Within the first twenty minutes. five people who do not know each other are smoking marijuana and drinking Pete's Wicked Ale in glutto­nous doses. 
In most cases. scenes involving any kind of debauchery are int1~rtwined in a good plot, which helps soften the graphic images that the director has exposed the audience 
to. "Blair Witch 2" has 
no such goodness in its staunchly opposed, "Blair Witch 2: plot. The movie lingers claiming that any nudi­in its stupidity. ty or violence on Book of Shadows" The five characters screen is justified by in the movie claim that the merits ul' each indi· they are sick of people victual film. If George capitalizing off the 
W. Bush or Al Gore go movie's name. But this out to see ''Blair Witch is exactly what the
out of five shamrocks 

2: Book of Shadows," movie is doing. There Hollywood just might is no connection to the be looking at govern­first "Blair Witch"
Director: Joe Berlinger

ment intervention. movie at all, except "Blair Witch 2" is Starring: Jeffrey Donovan, Kim that each one of the filled with unnecessary 
Director, Erica Leerhsen, Tristine Skylar characters in this images. There is movie are drawn to the implied sex in many of and Stephen Barker Turner Black Hills in Maryland 
the scenes, as charac­ters either fantasize about their group mates or actually put those fantasizes into action. There arc many snippets of nudity, but not none of them strengthen a charac­ter's dynamic or advance the plot. These flashes of nudity could have easily hit the editing lloor. 
As for the violence, it is equally superflu­ous. One of' the main successes of "The Blair Witch Project" was that it suggested so much terror without showing it. Violence happened to the characters, but usually ofT screen. The suggestion of what was lurking in the woods was scared the pants offofevery moviegoer. 
"Blair Witch 2" is littered with l1a,;hes of stabbings, hangings, guttings, decapita­
because they "liked the movie." In fact. there isn't even· a "book of shadows." 
The success or the first movie was based on the characters. Whether the audience loved or hated Heather, Mike and Josh, · their reactions to all that was happening around them seemed believable. This was done through the "documentary feel," or capturing the action exclusively on video. Video has a reputation of being unpolished, and watching the characters deliver improvisedlines seemed more spontaneous and unrehearsed. 
Since "Blair Witch 2" was shot on film, that spontaneity is replaced with charac­ters who arc trying to act real, but sound likf'I they are reading from a terrible script. The movie languishes in scene after scene of terrible dialogue, with a plot that accom­plishes nothing. 
Each character is a bad stereotype as well. Jeff (Jeffrev Donovan) is the townie. obsessed with aquick buck. Kim (Kim Directorl is a "Gpth chick" who is fascinat­ed with the occult and the movies. espe­cially (to no one's surprise) "The Blair Witch Project." Erica (Erica Leerhsen) is a "good witch," a person who uses spells to promote nature and good effects. Tristine (Tristine Skylar) and Stephen (Stnphen Barker Turner) arc co-writers of a book abot1t the Blair Witch. and are touring the 13lack I I ills to finish their research. 
In the end, two of these characters are dead, and sufficient masoning is not given for either one of their deaths, except with the understanding that "we all go a little crazy sometimes." 
The "Blair Witch Project" was a movie that could have survived without a sequel (or a third installment. slated for 2001 ). Making a movie about the l~ffects or the first movie would have been a better approach. Crnating a sequel that muddles the power of the first movie is bad practice. 
It is unfortunate that the success of the first film, with its minisculo budget and its staggering box oflice power, will be over­looked bv il-; much lessor (and much less thought out) sequel. 

Unlike the first installment, "Blair Witch 2: Book of Shadows," starring (from left), Leerhsen, Turner, Skylar and Donovan, is completely devoid of originality. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Best in Show' offers pure bred laughter 
By MATT CACCAMO 
Scene Movie Critic 
Most people have never been to a dog show or even taken the time to watch one on television late at night. After seeing "Best in Show," some may take a closer look at this odd "sport." 
Christopher Guest's newest, surpris-


ingly successful "mockumentary" is about a dog show and its quirky contes­tants. following five different dogs and their owners from their hometowns to the Mayflower Kennel Club's dog show in Philadelphia, Guest introduces us to people we would never know and a world we would never see. 
Through each set of dog owners, Guest satirizes a certain element of American society, making the film much more than just a look at dog shows. Guest himself plays Harlan PeppN, the_ only single dog owner in the film who brings his bloodhound from the woods of North Carolina to the City of Brotherly Love. Probably the best character in the film, Pepper's strong southern accent. and absurd obsession with nuts, pokes fun at back­woods America. 
Guest uses Meg and Hamilton Swan (Parker Posey and Michael llitchcock) to examine upper-class yuppie society. These two gloat over the fact that they first met in Starbucks across the street from each other. Throughout the lilm, they worry about their dog's psycholog­ical health after having witnessed them having sex in compromising positions. They are caricatures of themselves, and the audience can't help but feel sorry for their dog. 
Then there is a gay couple (played by John Michael Higgins and Michael McKean) who treat their twin Shih Tzus 
like the children they wish they had. for Cuffman"), Guest creates laughs Higgins character, in particular. is from everyday lil'e. But that's expected. hilarious, ·making sexual innuendoes What he docs, quite unexpectedly. is out of every situation. create an air of suspense and intensity 
Finally, there is the around the actual dog uneven, faltering hus­show competition. By band-wife team who "Best in Show" the close of the film, bring their dog, Winky. which coincides with all the way from Florida 
the final competition at for the big show. The the show, you find wife, Cookie Fleck yourself trying to guess (Catherine O'Hara), is out offive shamrocks the winner and actually the type of woman who caring about who fin­every guy seems to Director: Christopher Guest ishes in what place. 
know. She's been The acting is solid for
Starring: Christopher Guest,
around the block a few the purpose it serves. times, and isn't done at Parker Posey, Michael Hitchcock, Guest forces his actors that. Her husband, to fake a documentary
Eugene Levy, Catherine O'Hara,
Gerry (Eugene Levy), is form of conversation. the last person you Michael McKean and Fred Willard This may sound easier 
would expect to find with her: he's homely, awkward and has. two left feet -literally. 
By far the funniest character in the film is the dog-show announcer, Buck Laughlin (Fred Willard}. A mix between Bou Uecker and Dennis Miller, Laughlin knows as much about the shows as most Americans. That's why he's funny. lie says everything everyone in the audience is just dying to say. 
The genius of this film is in Guest's ability to take a seemingly uninteresting and potentially boring topic and make the audience care. As in his previous films ("This is Spinal Tap" and "Waiting 
than it actually is. Much ol' the script was improvised. revealing an even more impressive job done by ihe 1rnsemble cast. 
The only 11aw here is that you some­times _catch yourself wondering whether or not it's supposed to be a fake documentary: Guest switches from documentary-style interview mode to a camera that is seemingly invisible to the characters. 
Every once in a while a film will come along and surprise critics and audi­ences alike. "Best in Show" is just that kind of film. Dog-show watcher or not, it is not to ho missed. 

_,..______________ 

E ­
Thursday, November 2, 2000 page 15 
MOVIE FEATURE 
'Annie Hall' is Woody Allen at his best 
the assassination of John F. Kennedy. 

When his second wife invites him to a party full of contacts and people that Alvy must be "fake nice" to, he sneaks into the mas­ter bedroom to catch the end of the Knicks game. When his wife finds him there, he tries inciting her to make love, something she categorizes as "inappropriate" and just another example of' him "using sex to express hostility." Even in his first encounter with Annie, Alvy is thinking what she would look like naked. 
Alvy's relationship with Annie continues to thrive or fail based on his unqerstanding of women. He does not understand Annie's "phases" or "moods," and if Annie is having a bad day, Alvy's clueless remarks usually end with "you must be having your period again." 
Alvy is doomed to fail in this relationship not only because he doesn't understand women, but because of his own neurotic per­sonality. 
The movie spends much time developing Alvy's characteristics. He's obsessed with death, has a gigantic fear of commitment, is always nervous, is a hypochondri­ac and has a completely pes­simistic viewpoint. 
Annie does not stay in the rela­tionship because she enjoys his neurotic moments. She enjoys his sense of humor, which seems to go hand in hand with his view of life. Ile is a comedian by trade and the movie suggests that this skill is the initial attraction for a lot of the women. 
As the movie is named "Annie Hall," it has much to show about who Annie Hall is. Annie is a bit flighty and a bit shallow, but she is always looking out for the potential in every situation. 
In her relationship with Alvy it becomes about stability and being "lurved" (a term Alvy makes up to express "more then loved"). As soon as Annie realizes that Alvy's pessimistic attitudes are hinder­ing her professional singing career, however, the relationship becomes strained. Annie, thanks in part to Alvy, has become smart enough to move on from this rela­tionship and pursue opportunities in California. 

In a theme that runs through­out Allen's movies, the story shows that if you are not in New York, you are best forgotten about. Alvy heals from his sad­ness by scripting a play about Annie Hall. In the play, Alvy 
"Annie Hall" was the film that thrust Woody Allen into the Oscar spotlight. It used dozens of innov­ative techniques ("thinking" subti• tles, characters narrating to tho 
camera, car- 
toons.  split  Jude Seymour  
screens  
showing dif­ 
ferent time  Scene Movie  
periods,  Critic  
characters  
removing  

themselves from their own bod­ies) and Allen's witty dialogue made it the best picture of 1977. 
"Annie llall" is not hard to fol­low, but its edit-; are made to take the story rapidly through different time periods. The film has five flashbacks (and then five succes­sive flash forwards) showing not only Nvy Singer's (Woody Allen) relationship with Annie Hall (Diane Keaton). but also sneak pecks into his life growing up, which attempt to explain his ner­vousness and neuroticism. 
Alvy opens the movie explain­ing that he and Annie have just broken up and that his life contin­ues to be "terrible and in such small portions." Trying to under­stand Alvy and Annie's relation­ship becomes the focus of the rest of the moviP-. 
The movie shows the couple's nervous beginnings at a tennis court and its somber ending at a health food restaurant on SW1sct Strip. In between, there are flash­backs to Alvy's failed marriages and to his boyhood. living under­neath a roller coaster at Coney Jsland. 
Since Alvy narrates in the pre­sent time, the movie does not hide the fact that Alvy and Annie's relationship is destined to end at some point; getting there is what makes the movie interesting. 
One of the main themes packed into this movie is Allen's charac­tcristic misunderstanding of women. Alvy is a klutz in love, and the movie presents a number of his failures. 
Alvy breaks up a heated make out session with his first wife, Allison, because he is still both­ered by the findings of the Warren Commission concerning 
Photo courtesy ot United Artists 


Woody Allen and Diane Keaton star in the Oscar-winning film "Annie Hall," which Allen also wrote and directed. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
War-time drama 'Belle' full of acting goodness 
them. 
D B 
Sweeney ("The Cutting Edge") is Phil Lowenthal, the crew's navigator. Phil is convinced that his number is up and this final mission is going to be the death of him. 
Billy Zane ("Titanic';) is Val Kozlowski, the medical student walks away the stronger person, which is not how it really hap­pened. Allen deadpans to the camera, "You're always trying to get things to come out perfect in art, because it's always diflicult in 

1:t'
llle." 
"Annie Hall" is a wonderful film, capturing not only Allen's well-written characters but also a host of techniques that only make the film more pleasurable. Alvy may be clueless about women, but he is admirable because he went to extreme lengths to get back his true love. Annie Hall may have moved on, but she took a lot ofAlvy with her. 
By CASEY K. McCLUSKEY Scene Movie Critic 
Video picks are meant to highlight movies that are usual­ly overlooked because they did not get a lot of critical acclaim when they were released, but are still worth checking out. This week's video pick is 1990's "MPmphis Belle," directed by Michael Caton-Jones. 
"Belle" is about the crew of ~cmphis Belle, a World War II bomber plane. The crew has successfully flown 24 bombing missions and has one more f1ight before they f'inish their tour of duty and return home. When the crew learns that their last mission is over Dresden, each of lhem knows that they may not make it home. 
"Belle" is a war film. but not a typical one because it is not full of battles and action scenes. The crew is shown in the mid­dle of some serious bomb tire while on their last flight, but the focus is on what truly makes up the Memphis Belle: her crew. 
This film is packed full of some great actors who never quite made it to the A-list in Hollywood. Nonetheless, they play characters subtle enough to not take 
missions, he just wants to finish them. He wants to do his job as a pilot so that all of his missions are successful, whatever that takes. 
Eric Stoltz ("Pulp Fiction") is Danny Daly, the crew's resident poet. He has become so accus­tomed to the Air Force that he 
is not sure 

over the he is ready spotlight "Memphis Belle" to go home. from each The crew of other. which the Belle has
Director: Michael Caton-Jones
is exactly become his what is Starring: Matthew Modine, Eric family and 
needed in a Stoltz, D.B. Sweeney, Billy Zane, Sean he cannot film about a imagine life tight knit Astin and Harry Connick Jr. without 
crew. 
Matthew 

Modine ("Gross Anatomy") is Dennis Dearborn, the pilot of the Memphis Belle. Ile .is a no­nonsen se ofOcer who does everything by the book so that his crew and his plane come •out of everv situation intact. He is not inte"rcsted ln flying the 
who held off going into medi­one. Admittedly. the film is a bit cine to help his country out. slow at times, but overall it is 
,,..

Sean Astin ("Rudy") is Rascal definitely worth checking out. Moore, one of the youngest You will not be disappointed. members of the crew who is only interested in getting women into bed and fighting in the war. 
Harry Connick Jr. ("Copycat" and "Hope Floats") is Clay Busby, a southern boy who left his father's farm to help in the war effort. As in most of' Connick's films, the audience is treated to hearing his jazz ren­ditions on the piano. In ''Memphis Belle" we hear Connick sing "Danny Boy" dedi­cated to the men on his-plane. 
These are the men whose names arc very memorable, but there are some other really great performances by some lesser known actors. 
This movie is not a "guy movie" or a "chick flick." It is a great movie for a "dorm date" because it is a movie that has a little bit of something for every-

Thursday, November 2, 2000

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

,_ 
Pierce scores 28 to lead Celtics over Pistons 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Paul Pierce showed no ill effects from being stabbed last month, scoring 28 points Wednesday night -20 in the first half -to lead the Boston Celtics to a 103-83 victory over the Detroit Pistons. 
Antoine Walker had 33 points and 12 rebounds as the Celtics improved to 3-1 in season openers in the Hick Pitino era. 
One night after scoring a career-high 44 points in Detroit's season-opening vic• tory at Toronto, Jerry Stackhouse scored 20 but shot just 7-of-21. The Pistons shot just 36 percent overall as they fell behind 56-40 at the half and got no closer than nine in the second half. 
Pierce was stabbed nearly a dozen

• times on Sept. 25 at the Buzz Club, a nightclub in the Boston theater district. Pierce missed three preseason games recovering from what the Celtics described as ''injuries in an off-court inci­dent." Pierce, who scored 14 points in 22 min­utes in his first preseason game and averaged 16 points over the preseason. went to center court before the game and thanked the fans for their support, urging them to cheer loudly and promising the Celtics would give maximum effort. "It's been diflicult, but I'm back," he said. 
And he didn't wait long, scoring 12 of his points in the second quarter. Walker had 12 in the first quarter and 21 by the half. 
76ers 104, Raptors 98 
Allen Iverson scored 24 points and Philadelphia overcame a big first quarter by Vince Carter to beat Toronto. 
Iverson also had five rebounds and five ai.sists. Eric Snow scored 16 and Tyrone Hill added 12. 
Carter scored 15 of his 25 points in the first quarter when the Haptors opened a 10-point lead. Mark Jackson added 16 points and 12 assists, and Antonio Davis had 18 points and 11 rebounds. 
Philadelphia, coming off a 29-point sea­son-opening victory against the Knicks in New York, played its first game at the First Union Center since losing to Indiana in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference semifinals last spring. 
After a loud pregame ceremony that included a fireworks display, the Sixers 

fell behind 13-3 less than five minutes 
into the game. 

Carter, who shot 9-for-24 in a loss to Detroit one night earlier, hit his first six shots as Toronto took a 31-25 lead after one quarter. 
The Sixers took control in the second and third and led by as many as eight points. But Toronto came back in the fourth and took an 8l-79 lead on a hook shot by Kevin Willis. 
Then Iverson and Hill look over. 
Iverson tied it at 81 on a driving layup, and Hill's layup made it 83-81 with 6:44 remaining. 
A free throw by Theo Ratliff, a fast­break layup by lvei:son and a put-back by Hill completed a 9-0 run. giving the Sixers an 88-81 lead with 4:34 left. 
Toronto, which missed eight straight shots during the run, didn't get closer than three the rest of the way. 
Philadelphia took its first lead, 4 7-45, on a three-point play by Nazr Mohammed with 3:14 left in the second quarter. Toni Kukoc grabbed a rebound, led a fastbreak and threw a no-look pass to Mohammed, who hit a two-footer before making a foul shot. 
Kukoc then nailed a 3-pointer, and Snow scored on a driving layup to com­plete a 10-0 run, giving the Sixers a 52­45 lead. 
Cavaliers 102, Kings 100 
Lamond Murray scored all six of Cleveland's points in the second overtime before slapping the ball away from Doug Christie just before the final buzzer as the Cavaliers won their home opener over Sacramento. 
Murray, who finished with 18 points, reached in and poked the ball away as Christie was about to go up for a poten­tial game-tying shot. 
Andre Miller had 17 points and eight assists for the Cavs before falling hard and bruising his right knee in the second overtime. 
Clarence Weatherspoon, who came over in the Shawn Kemp trade and is one of six new players on Cleveland's roster, added 14 points and 11 rebounds. Center Zydrunas Ilgauskas, attempting to come back after missing most of the past two seasons with foot injuries, added 10 points for the Cavs. 
Chris Webber scored 27 points in 50 minutes and Predrag Stojakovic had 23 for the second straight night for the Kings, whose offense was out of rhythm all night without point guard Jason Williams. The flashy point guard sat out the second game of his five-game suspen­sion for failing to comply with the NBA's drug treatment plan. 

Murray had missed his first five free­throw attempts this season before sinking two with 1:44 remaining to give the Cavs a 102-100 lead. 
Webber then missed inside and 
Ilgauskas, playing with a passion he hadn't shown before being hurt, ripped a rebound away from two Kings players with 1 :22 to play. 
Sacramento got it back but Christie missed an off-balance shot with 29 sec­onds remaining. However, the Kings got another chance when Weatherspoon didn't pull the trigger with an open look with eight seconds left, causing a 24-sec­ond violation. 
The Observer accjtts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f'm. at the Notre O.ime office, 024 South Dining all. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserve$ the r,ght to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

.. CLASSIFIEDS 
VICTORY TKTS  I need one GA ticket for B.C.  2520 sq. ft. home for sale or lease to  #1 Spring Break 2001 -Cancun,  Keep God out of California  
LOST & FOUND  BUY'SELL 'TRADE ND FOOTBALL  game  buy in Knollwood. Moving. $174k. 277•7992  Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, Florida & $.Padre. Reliable TWA  Don't hate the player, hate the game  
232-0964  Please call Erin 4-4190.  flights.  
FOUND  www.11ictorytickets.com  3,4 $ 6 BDRM HOMES  FURN.  Best Prices  Hi, I'm Johnny Knoxville  
TREK BIKE in parking lot one week  I NEED BC TIX. 272-6306.  NOW & 2001-02.  Earn $$$ or FREE trips-call tor  
ago.  BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  272-6306.  details'  Ladies  
......  CALL MATT 4--4894  273-3911  1800.SURFS.UP  
LOST on campus at Stanford game 1 1/2 inch thick gold bracelet  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. -232·2378  FOR RENT  WANTED  www.studentexpress.com Spring Break 2001 Book group of 15  Coma Hey Knight  
REWARD  PM-288-2726  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND  lnlernal1onal publication based In  and GO FREE! Book before Nov. 3  
CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Granger has opening for assistant  far FREE Meals!  Impress potential employers.  
call Carol at 312-946-1800  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  http://mmmrentals.homepage .corn'  editor. Writing and grammar skills  Visit us at sunsplashtours.com or call  Keep in contact wrth friends and rela- 
A.M. ­ 232-2378  email:mmmrentals@aol.com  necessary. Knowledge of motor- for free info @ 1-800-426-771q  lives. Student business cards are  
FOUND: lronman Triathlon walCh on  P.M. -288-2726  sports a bonus. For more information  NOW available at  
Thursday night between l.aFortune  232-2595  call 277-0033.  94 Mitsubishi Galant  THE COPY SHOP  
and Nieuwland Science Hall  PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS.  Black/Sunroof/195k  LaFortune Student Center  
BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS.  That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast  Locally based racing publication in  $1950 obo  Phone 631-COPY  
Man's watch with black, gray, and  219 289-8048.  Inn has space available for  need of web design to help to  
orange coloring.  lootbalVparent wknds. 5 Rooms with  improve and maintain present sites.  Call (219) 634--0849  WORK THE POLLS ELECTION  
Call Steph al 4-1675.  Need 1 Ticket  private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury,  Strong graphic design ability a must  DAY, NOV.7 6AM-6PM  
For NDvBC  30 miles from campus. Toll Road,  For more info, call 277-0033.  CAR FOR SALE: 1991 Pontiac  PAY $75  
247-0965  Exit #107,  Lemas LE, 2D, Mileage: 77,000  YOU MUST BE 18YRS OLD, A  
TICKETS  I NEED TWO BC TICKETS!  1-800-418-9487  WANTED: FORMER ISLI PARTICI­PANTS TO FACILITATE UPCOM- Phone 273-6056; email erdem.1 @nd edu  RESIDENT OF ST. JOSEPH COUN-n', IN., AND A REGISTERED  
MY PARENTS ARE COMING!  Students Wanted! Alum-owned 2stry  ING CONFERENCE ON 11/18/00.  VOTER. IF YOU ARE INTEREST­ 
,,,...  WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS  WILL PAY! CALL 284-4334!  5-6 bdrm, 2 bath New: carpet, appli­ances, washer-dryer, furnace-roof, &  RUDY WILL BE THE GUEST SPEAKER.  1993 Ford Explorer (2 door) Man. 4-wheel drive 66,000 miles  ED, CALL JOHN COURT AT VDT· ERS REGISTRATION, 235-9530.  
289-9280  WE'LL TALK!  Security.  CALL JIM HART AT 277-1599 OR  call: 784·8303 or 219-232-5557  
Huge yard 1blk N. of Club 2j, $1375  DR.LOMBARDO AT THE CCE.  Test in a few hours  
SELLING  NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE  inc. until.  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  GA'S. PLEASE CALL MANYARD AT 1-800-638-6963, X 6093 CALL  Call Jason 240-0322.  FOR SALE  PERSONAL  Not good  
251-1570  WILL BE RETURNED ASAP.  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL  Get me outta this place  
YEAR,NORTH OF ND. GREAT  Hey guys,  
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  2 ND/USC TIX+ AIRFARE!  AREA.  PHONE CARDS $201558 MIN.  Have tun tonight  Done  
273-3911  GOTO alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_satx  277-3097.  CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805  KL  now  

Thursday, November 2, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Fleury's hat trick leads Rangers over Lightning 
goal this season for the The goal came just seconds as New York stretched its Brown's third goal of the sea­
Associated Press 
Lightning, who finished their after the Flyers pulled goal­unbeaten streak to 5-0-1. son and Kozlov's second goal season road series with the tender Brian Boucher, and it That's the Islanders' longest of the game -both in the sec­
NEW YORK 

Rangers. Tampa Bay, coming prevented Devils goaltender run since going 4-0-2 from ond period -to increase hisThcorcn Fleury scored three off a 6-5 overtime loss Tuesday Chris Terreri from recording Dec. 31-Jan. 15 of the 1995-96 point total to 1,201. Boston'stimes, twice on power plays in 
night at Carolina, beat Nc,v his first shutout since Feb. 4, season. Paul Coffey and Colorado's RayNew York's four-goal second 
York 4-2 on Oct. 22. 1999. Flaherty, who recorded his Bourque arc the only otherperiod, as the Rangers beat The Rangers were able to Sergei Brylin scored early in fifth career shutout, outdueled defensemen among the 30
the Tampa 

take advantage of the road­the first period for the Devils, former Islanders goaltender NHL players to reach that
B a y 
weary Lightning. and nemesis who extended their unbeaten Roberto Luongo. recording 23 number.
Lightning G-Kevin Weekes, in the second streak to six games (4-0-2). saves to improve his record to Sergei Fedorov. who also1 last night. 
period. On the tying goal, Gino 3-0. drew an assist on Brown's
Fleury 
Weekes, who entered 5-2 Odjick won the puck from two Three minutes after the goal, had three assists to raise
scored one 
with a 2.34 goals-against aver­Devils along the left side­Panthers were held without a his team-leading points total to
power-play 
age in his career against New boards and sPnt a pass to shot during a 55-second. two­15. Fedorov set up Kozlov'sgoal all last York, allowed all six goals on defenseman Eric Desjardins man advantage, Isbister skated first goal of the game and season -his 28 shots. He was replaced by coming down the middle. His between Pavel Bure and Paul Martin Lapointe's eighth goalfirst with the Dieter Kochan after Fleury's shot banged off the post but Laus before unleashing a wrist on the power play 8:29 intoRang1us -Fleury 
third goal. the rebound bounced out in shot from the high slot past the second for his fifth multi­
already has 
After a scoreless first period. front to Ranheim for his sec­Luongo at 18:22 for a 1-0 lead. point game of the season.
four in t1 games this season. 
Fleury scored with a blast ond goal of the season. Garry Galley assisted. Detroit, which lost 6-2 at .,..
His short-handed goal 4:33 
from the blue line at 3:14 of Bouclier, who kept the Hyers Isbister has five goals in six Washington on Tuesday, woninto the third period on a 2-on­
the second period. Tim Taylor in the game by making 3 3 games. for the fifth time in its last six1 with Mike York completed made it 2-0 just 24 seconds saves, preserved The Islanders had scored on games to raise its record to 8­Fleury's 15th career hat trick later by swooping in on Philadelphia's four-game just four of 45 power-play 4-0-1. The Red Wings sent 38and first with New York. 
Weekes and moving backhand unbeaten streak by stopping opportunities before getting shots at Canadiens goalie JoseThe right wing was demoted 
to forehand. Fleurv and rookie Scott Gomez on a 3-on-1 break the two extra-man goals Theodore.
to the Rangers' fourth line 
Mike Mottau assisted. with about two minutes left in Wednesday. Montreal defenseman Patrice after repeatedly taking penal­
Johnson cut it to 2-1 at 7 :30 overtime. With Joey Tetarenko off for Brisebois scored his fourth
ties. Since then, Fleury has 
after the puck was lost in a Terreri also came up big in slashing, Hamrlik scored his goal 14:50 into the openingfour goals -two short-handed scramble in front. the overtime on a huge slap sixth goal of the season 17 sec­period to tie the game at 1-1 ,
-two assists and only two 
Fleury scored again on a shot by Dan McGillis with onds into the third period on a with a slap shot that Redpenalty minutes in two out­power play at 15:15 after a about a minute left. Ile faced slap shot from the top of the Wings goalie Manny Legaceings. Fleury, who had a goal 
beautiful passing setup by five shots in overtime and fin­right face-off circle that beat couldn't hold.
and an assist Sunday in a 5-1 Mark Messier and Leetch. ished with 28 saves. Luongo on the glove side. Dainius Zubrus scored hisvictory over Boston. already McCarthy made it 4-1 with The game was the first Skating shorthanded, seventh goal on a power playhas nine goals, just six under onlv 55.3 seconds left in the between the teams since the Lindgren came from behind at 9:53 of the second period tohis total in 1999-00. 
middle period with his first Devils beat the Flyers 2-1 in the Panthers' goal to stuff in draw the Canadicns within 3­
New York won its second 
goal since last Dec. 27 -a Game 7 of the Eastern his first goal of the season. It 2.
straight home game after 
span of 45 games. Conference final. was the Islanders' fourth Montreal (4-6-2-0) lost its
dropping four straight at 
Lacroix scored on his own shorthanded goal of the sea­third straight game and is win­Madison Square Garden. 
rebound at 3:34 of the third, son. less in its last four. 
Tim Taylor, Sandy McCarthy Islanders 3, Panthers 0
and Fleury made it 6-1 just 59 Kozlov backhanded a shot
and Eric Lacroix all scored Brad Isbister and Roman
seconds later. past Theodore off a faceoff in
their first goals of the season, Hamrlik scored on power plays Red Wings 4, Canadiens 2 
the Montreal zone 6:43 into
and Brain Leetch added three to back Wade Flaherty's first Larry Murphy's two assists the first to open the scoring. 
assists for the Rangers. Mike Flyers 1, Devils 1 shutout of the season as New made him the third NHL After Brisebois tied it at 1-1,Richter stopped 31 shots for Paul Ranheim scored with York beat Florida for its fourth defenseman to top 1,200 Murphy and Fedorov combined 
his second straight victory 1 :26 to play in the third period straight victory. career points and Vyacheslav to send Brown in on the rightafter losing his first two starts to give undermanned Hamrlik also assisted on Kozlov scored twice as Detroit wing. where he beat Theodorefollowing knee surgery. Philadelphia a tie with New Mats Lindgren's shorthanded beat Montreal. 
with a shot over his right
Ryan Johnson scored his first Jersey. goal at 8:57 of the third period Murphy assisted on Doug shoulder at 6:51 of the second. 



Student Workers Needed 
To help assist other students U:sing the temporary 
Old College upperclassmen and staff with Bishop Dan Jenky, C.S.C. 
DART registration system at the Registration Center, G 184 Hes burgh Library from 
th 
November 8 through December l"
Holy Cross: 
Hours: 9:00 am to 5:00 pm 
Dates:

The Next Generation 
November 8, 9, 10,.14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 28, 29, 30, December 1 
We need student help throughout the day ... you pick your time 

"IT/"UI ......c,, ~ ....... :l..... L1­
JVU c:l.lC d..VdildUU:: 
Please Contact: Arlene Vogt, Assistant Registrar, 105 Main Building, Registrar's Office 631-6050
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
w 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 2, 2000 
I .--..,. 
I MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
I 
' Bowa takes over as Phillies' manager 
catchers Bob Boone and Darren 
Associated Pre55 

Daulton. Boone, who managed Kansas City for three seasons,
PIIHADELPIIIA 

played with Bowa on the 1980Larry Bowa, whose fiery per­championship Phillies team. 
sonal i ty helped lead the 

Daulton was a serious candi­Philadelphia Phillies to the fran• 
date even though he had no
chisc's only World Series cham­managerial or coaching experi­

pionship 

ence.
and got him Bowa. 54. of Bryn Mawr, is a

in trouble 

fan favorite with deep ties towith man­
the organization. I-le was 
age m c n t, 

Philadelphia's third-base coach 
was hired 

from 1988-96. but his relation•Wednesday ship with the Phillies then dete­
as the 
riorated.
team's 

Bowa criticized team manage­manager. Bowa ment last spring, then skipped a 
I -.. 
"When all celebration honoring the 1980 

was said 

club because of a long-running
and done, experience, knowl­

feud with owner Bill Giles.
edge of the game, love of the Howa met with Giles on game, and more importantly. 

Tuesday night, and resolvedknowledge and love of 
their differences. 
Philadelphia. ruled the day," 

"I said some things, and
general manager Ed Wade said. 

sometimes I say things out of
Bowa said he could not guar­anger," Bowa said. "They wereantee victories. 

uncalled for. I took care of it." 
"The one thing that I will Bowa played 16 seasons in

bring to this ball club is intensi­the major leagues and was onety." ho said. "These guys will go 

of the game's premier short­
out and play hard every night. 

stops in the 1970s, when he 
... When you start accepting los­was a five-time All-Star with the ing,,! think you've got a prob­Phillies.

lem. 

He is known as a fierce com­Bowa, a third-base coach with petitor with a fiery personality
Seattle last season, replaced 

that sometimes got him in trou­Terry Francona, fired on Oct. 1. 
ble as a young manager with
Bowa gets a second chance at the Padres.
managing 12 years after com­

I Before joining Seattle last
I piling an 81-127 record with 
I ~ year, Bowa coached with the
the San Diego Padres. 

I 
i Anaheim Angels for three
Wade interviewed nine candi­
years.
dates. including former Phillies 
Thursday, November 2 
7:00 
p.m. "Meet Coach Brey," LaFortune Ballroom 

7:00 
p.m. 181 Annual Mr. Notre Dame Pageant, SDH -Karaoke to follow 

7:00 
p.m. Lecture by Professor Chrales Rice, "The Culture of Life and Our Academic Community," Sorin College Chapel 


7:30 p.m. Play by Neil Simon, "Lost in Yonkers", Lab Theater/VVashington Hall 
8:00 p.m. ND Symphony Orchestra Fall Concert, Washington Hall 
8:30 p.m.-1O:3O p.m. Open Rec Lacrose, Court 1, RSRC 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune StudentCenter Huddle 
10:30 p.m. "A Perfect Storm," DeBartolo 101* and "Rules of Engagement," DeBartolo 155* 
NBA 

Martin adjusting to NBA game 
jumpers. everything is falling for you.
Associated Press 

"I think right now he's rely­Here. you just have to play ing on his jump shot way too the way you know how to
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

much for his game to get play basketball. I le has to beThe best thing Kenyon going," Scott said Wednesday aggressive, get into a runningMartin can say about his NBA 
after practice. "We want lo game with the bigger guys
debut was that it was a 

get him down in the post and score buckets."
learning experience. 

where we can use his quick­Martin wasn't the only one
The No. 


ness and leaping ability. who struggled shooting. The1 pick in That's something he has to Nets shot 37 percent from the
the NBA 

take advantage of." field.
draft was 

Robert Traylor, the rotund The team's three big-namea little out 
Cavaliers power forward, players -Martin, Stephon
of control 

wasn't surprised Martin Marbury and Kendall Gill ­
in his first struggled a little. That hap­combined go 8-of-43 from the

regular­

pens to young players. he field and 6-of-11 from the 
sea son 

said. free throw line. 
game with Martin 

"He's going to be a good "We let it get away. it was
the New player," Traylor said of anybody's game," Martin

Jersey 

Martin. "He needs to get a lit­said. "We got a couple of bad Nets, and his shooting statis­tle stronger to play the four breaks and let it get awaytics showed it. 
and he needs to take better from us. We can't do that."
Martin missed his first 

shots at times. Scott was more annoyedseven shots and ended up hit­"Coming out of college and with his team's effort thanting 4-of-16 shots and scor­being the man, it seems their shooting.
ing 10 points in the Nets' 86­82 loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers on Tuesday night. 
'Tm going to have to learn to calm me down," said Martin. who is still trying to get back into shape' after breaking his leg last spring in the Conference USA tour­nament. "That's the thing with me. I'm so ready to play. We just have to put this one behind us and get ready for Friday." 
What bothered rookie coach Byron Scott was Martin's shot selection. Of Martin's four baskets, only three were inside where he is expected to score. The majority of his shots were 
Friday, November 3 
5:00 p.m. Women's Soccer: Syracuse vs. Connecticut, Alumni Field 

7:00 
p.m. Women's Volleyball Game vs. Boston College, Joyce Arena 


7:00 
p.m. Women's Soccer: #1 ND vs. Boston College, Alumni Field 

7:00 
p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badmin­ton, Court 2, RSRC 


7:30 
p.m. Play by Neil Simon, "Lost in Yonkers," Lab Theater/VVashington Hall 

7:30 
p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Ghost Dog: The Way ofthe Samurai," Snite Museum* 

7:30 
p.m. GUSTER , Stepan Center* 


8:00 p.m. "A Perfect Storm,n DeBartolo 1 O 1 * and "Rules ofEngagement," DeBartolo 155* 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight FREE BILLIARDS, ND Express, LaFortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai," Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. "A Perfect Storm," DeBartolo 1 O 1 * and "Rules ofEngagement," DeBartolo 155* 
Saturday, November 4 
5:00 
p.m. "The Cellular Function of Genes: Scientific and Ethical Implica­tions," McKenna Hall 

5:00 
p.m. -Midnight Open Play Basket­ball and Volleyball, Stepan Center 


7:00 p.m. Women's Volleyball Game vs. North Carolina, Joyce Center Arena 
7:30 
p.m. Play by Neil Simon, "Lost in Yonkers," Lab Theater/VVashington Hall 

7:30 
p.m. Campus Fellowship, "Live Blues and Folk Rock" Coffee House, Upper Room SDH 

7:30 
p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai," Snite,­Museum* 


8:00 
p.m. "A Perfect Storm," DeBartolo 101* & "Rules of Engagement," DeBartolo 155* 

8:00 
p.m. Flipside: Ice Skating at the Joyce Center• 


*Denotes admission charge for ND/ SMC students 
Programs are subject to change without notice. For up to date information, check out the ND calendar, Today@ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 631-7308. To add an event to further calendars, please send the details about the activity to 
sao@nd.edu. 
_, 

Thursday, November 2, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
4!,tudent Rally for Volle.Yba// 


Notre Dame vs. North Carolina Saturday, November 4, 2000 at 7:00pm Enter Gate 10 JACC, Free Admission for ND students 
Come out and support your ND Volleyball Team as they take on North Carolina! 
*The first 50 students get a free hat! 

*Students will compete in a no-holds-bar serving contest to win adidas merchandise and gift certificates to Chili's, Papa Vino's, Papa John's and Blimpie! 
*The dorm with the highest percentage of its residents in attendance (over 20%) wins $400! 
Sponsored by Student Activities and the Athletic Department 
Other Volleyball Games this Weekend at Notre Dame: 
Friday, November 3-Notre Dame vs. Boston College 7:00pm 
Breast Cancer Awareness Game-Receive free admission by 
donating $3 to the Alumni Association's Breast Cancer 
Awareness Program 

Sunday, November 5-Notre Dame vs. Providence 2:00pm 
NEW SITES JUST RODED!!! 
Application 

Deadline NOW EHtended! ! 
Take the 

Ul!RAN PLUNO~---,..._..... 
WHERE? WHEN? In nearly fifty (5 0 !) U.S. Cities The week of January 4-11 If you live near a city -Specific 48 hour period YOU can take the Plunge! Set by each Site. 
SITES NOW AVAILABLE: 
DENVER, LOS ANGELES, NEW ORLEANS AND PORTLAND 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO TAKE THE PLUNGE 
SIGN UP NOW! 
DEADLINE EXTENDED UNTIL FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2000 
Registration forms available at the CSC & at www.ndtoday.com Accepting Applications until 10:00 PM at the CSC 

DENUER. NEUJ ORLEHNS, LOS ANGELES, RND PORTLAND NOW Ruailable ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
Rlbany ofoRlbuquerque...Boston•Buf"falo•Chicago•Cincinnati•Cleueland 
Columbus...Dallas+Des Moines...Detroit•Grand Rapids•Honolulu Houston 
.,r. lndianapolis+Mobile.New York +Oakland+Philaclelphia 
1 
PhoeniH..,Pittsburgh.,,.st. Petersburg...south Bend.y..San Antonio San Diego...UJashington D.c....nND MORE! ! 
L-------------------------------~~==:J 
' 
r -1 
NFL 

Houston, Jacksonville, Detroit get Super Bowls 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA Jacksonville's ship came in Wednesday. 
With the help of some ship­ping companies that will bring in 1 O cruise ships to help pro­vide rooms, NFL owners voted to bring the Super Bowl to north Florida for the first time. 
Jacksonville beat out Miami, which has played host to eight Super Bowls, in a closely con­tested race for the 2005 game. 
As expected, the owners gave the 2004 Super Bowl to Houston and the 2006 game to Detroit, rewarding both cities for building new stadiums. Neither had opposition. 
That wasn't the case for Jacksonville, which required four ballots to become one of the smallest metropolitan areas to land the biggest one­day event in American sports. . 
"This raises us to a first-tier city," said Wayne Weaver, owner of the Jaguars. 
Jacksonville, with a metro population just over 1 million, earned its first Super Bowl even though the NFL had seri­ous concerns about a lack of hotel space and airline flights. 
The city will dock at least 10 cruise ships near Alltel Stadium on the St. John's River, adding about 8,000 
rooms to its downtown hotel capacity. Sydney used a simi-
Jar tactic during the Olympics. 
"I think the membership bought into that," Weaver said. "We're going to give them a different and unique experience." 
Also, three airlines agreed to triple flights to Jacksonville during the Super Bowl week, ensuring fans will be able to get in and out of the city. 
"There was a sentiment for diversity, a change of scenery," said Art Modell, owner of the Baltimore Ravens. "Miami will always be a part of the Super Bowl rota­tion, but Jacksonville deserved 
it.,, Miami brought a delegation that included former Dolphins coach Don Shula and ex-quar­terback Dan Marino. Oakland also bid for the 2005 game but was given little chance because of its feud with Raiders owner Al Davis. The California city, seeking its first Super Bowl, was eliminat­ed on the second ballot. Detroit's delegation was led by Mayor Dennis Archer and racing team owner Roger Penske. "Fortunately, a lot of the owners knew Roger Penske personally," Archer said. "That was a nice touch." The Super Bowl culminated a whirlwind for Penske. One Monday, his racing team won its first CART championship since 1994. "I told Mayor Archer that I like coming in here a winner," Penske said. "I guess today we're both winners." Houston was represented by Mayor Lee Brown and Bob McNair, owner of the Texans expansion team that will begin play in 2002. As part of his $700 million entry fee, McNair was promised a Super Bowl as soon as possible. It will come at the end of the Texans' sec­ond season at their new 69,500-seat retractable roof stadium, under construction next to the Astrodome. Houston first played host to 
..._ 

the Super Bowl in 197 4 at Rice Stadium. The city split with the NFL in 1996 when the Oilers left for Tennessee, but Wednesday's decision brought the reconciliation full circle. 
"It shows the strength of the city and the resiliency of the community to go through such a downer and turn it around in such a short period of time," McNair said. 
Detroit also is getting its sec­

ond Super Bowl. The 1982 
game was played at the subur­
ban Pontiac Silverdome. 
The 2006 Super Bowl will be 

held at a ne"v downtown 
domed stadium, 65,000-seat 
ford J-iield. The $315 million 
project is scheduled to open in 
2002, luring the Lions back to 
the city. 
"This really speaks volumes about how the city is coming back," Archer said, adding that he hopes the NFL's deci­sion would convince Major League Baseball to award an All-Star game to Detroit. 
The NFL raised some con­

cerns about Detroit's ability to 
meet the requirement for 
17,500 hotel rooms within an 
hour drive of the stadium. The 
city is counting on three casino 
hotels that have not been built. 
' 
! 
I Thursday, November 2, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 20 
I I 
I___-...,­
I 
1 
NHL
I 
Sinden resigns after 28-years as Bruins' GM 
+ Bruins won 10 divison titles and five conference titles under Sinden 
Assod.tcd Preu 
BOSTON 

Harry Sinden ended his 28­year stint as general manager of the Boston Bruins on Wednesday, just a week after replacing coach Pat Burns with M i k e Keenan.
.. 
The team has lost three of four g a m e s u n d e r Keenan. 
Sinden, 67, who will stay on as team president, has been a player and coach with the Bruins. In his nearly three decades as GM, the Bruins won 10 division and five conference titles, and had 26 winning seasons. 
"The respect that he has earned from people throughout the hockey world ... is unparal­leled," NIIL commissioner Gary Bettman said. 
Sinden picked Mike O'Connell, his assistant for the past six years, as his replace­ment. 
"This is a promotion that has been corning for quite a while, but one for which the timing needed to be right." Sinden said in a statement. "I felt that now was that opportune time to make this organizational change. With the recent nam­ing of Mike Keenan as our coach, they can work together to improve this hockey club." 
The Bruins opened this sea­son 3-0-1, then dropped four straight games on a West Coast trip, prompting Sinden to fire the popular Burns after three years. He turned to the volatile Keenan, who coached the New York Hangers to the 1994 Stanley Cup. 
Sinden has earned a reputa­tion as a tough negotiator hold­ing down salaries for owner Jeremy Jacobs. who generally left the team decisions to 

Got Sports? Call 
1-4543 




I II , 
Sportswear

I 
la · , · at 
from CIUTPCST Campus 

Sinden. A call to Jacobs' office 
was referred to the team, and 
the team said they did not 
expect him to comment. 

"Harry's notorious for these negotiations," goaltender Byron Dafoe said last year after a holdout that kept him out of the first 12 games. "jWe all know that he's a shrewd busi­nessman." 
Forward Anson Carter is holding out this season and has met similar inflexibility by Sinden. 
"He's as competitive as a GM as we were as players," former Bruins forward Cam Neely said. 
Sinden began as a player­coach in Kingston, Ontario. Following a coaching stint in Minneapolis, he became a play­er-coach in Oklahoma City and in 1965-66 led that club to the Central Hockey League cham­pionship. 
He moved to Boston to assume the Bruins coaching position in 1966-67 and a year later led the team into the play­offs for the first time in eight seasons. In 1969-70, he coached the Bruins to their first Stanley Cup in 29 years. 
Sinden left the Bruins for two years to enter private business, then returned to hockey in 1972, when he was asked to coach Team Canada in the series between NHL players and the Soviet Union. He returned to Boston that year to become the team's fifth general manager. 
In 1983, he was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame. 
New York Rangers general manager Glen Sather, a long­time friend, said Sinden is a man whose passion for hockey is so strong, it can be draining. 
"He's one of those people who's consumed by the job, he loves it," he said. "In all the places we've gone together hunting and fishing, we always talk hockey. It's hockey. It's what we do. 
"If you need advice on rules Sather said he did not know or really anything on hockey, why Sinden gave up his GM Harry is a great person to talk duties. to. O'Connell, 44, has been 
''In my opinion he is the pre­groomed for the job as Sinden's mier general manager in all of deputy. He played high school hockey," Sather said. "He's hockey in Massachusetts. been the epitome of a general played 15 years in the NHL and manager." coached in the minor leagues. 
Sinden said O'Connell already had been performing most of the tasks of a general manager the past couple of season. O'Connell was not immediately available for comment. Tho team announced O'Connell pro­moted Jeff Gorton, 32. to assis­tant general manager. 

rHrRr ARr Ator OF JOBS our rHrRr. 
We'll give you a new one every day. 


advertising 
The Client Service Department will be interviewing candidates 
in our Chicago Headquarters on January 5, 2001. If you plan to be in the area, submit your resume online through Golrish no later than November 15th. Candidates selected will be notified in early December. http://recruiting. leobu rnett. com 
The Easy Banking Club 
for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Faculty and Staff 
Great Benefits 
Sign up tor direct deposit payroll at 1st Source Bank and receive the following great benefits: 
Free checking account· 
• 
Interest on balances over $750 

• 
Unlimited check writing 

• 
Free Resource~ or Resource Plus~ card 

• 
1/2% interest discount on consumer loans 

• 
$100 mortgage closing cost discount 

• 
On-line Banking account information access ­free for three months 


Ask Human Resources or a 1st Source Bank representative for details on how easy it is to join. 
Now More Convenient Than Ever! 
In addition to our banking center and ATM in Haggar 
College Center, and our ATM in the Hesburgh Library, we 
now have a third ATM in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's. 
Plus, we've extended our hours at Saint Mary's to serve 
you even better. 
Saint Mary's Banking Center• 235-2019 M-Th • l0:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 
AOL Keyword: 1st Source Bank 



'Subject to new account credit restrictions. 
lstsource.com 


Thursday, November 2, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
L.A. hires Tracy as manager 
Lasorda.

Associated Press 
Tracy, the Dodgers' bench coach, signed a two-year con­
LOS ANGELES 
tract lo succeed Davey Johnson, The Dodgers' new manager who was fired Oct. 6 after tworealizes many fans are proba­

years. The Dodgers haven't

bly wondering. "Jim who?" 
made the playoffs since 1996,

Jim Tracy knows the same 
questions were asked about another unknown: Walter Alston, who was hired by the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1954. 
''I've been through that before," Tracv s a i ct 
'Tm very grateful I'm being given this opportunity I have no fear whatsoever taking on this situation. " 
Jim Tracy Dodger's manager 

Wednesday at a news confer­ence called to introduce him as the team's new manager. "I look forward to establishing myself here in a way that, hopefully when my time is through hem. people will speak of me in the same vein as Walter Alston and Tommy and haven't won a post­season game since win­ning the 1988 World Series. 
'Tm very grateful I'm being given this opportu­nity," Tracy said. "I have no fear 

1:?t South NUw. !f\.'iferru~ Smtn ~n:l!.. khJian~ .4f.i$i7 

whatsoever taking on this situa­tion. My focus will be on re­establishing the pride. re-estab­lishing totally the tradition of this organization." 
Tracy is the 24th manager in franchise history, but only the sixth since the Dodgers moved from Brooklyn to Los Angeles after the 1957 season. 


He's the fourth since Lasorda retired midway through the 1996 season following a minor heart attack. 
Alston managed the Dodgers for 23 years before retiring, and he was succeeded by Lasorda, the team's third-base coach, in l 977. Hoth are in the Hall of Fame. 
Tracy, 44, Joined the Dodgers two years ago as bench coach under Johnson. He held a simi­lar position the previous four years under Montreal Expos manager Felipe Alou. 
"Selecting him, I was 100 per­cent in favor of it," said Lasorda. now a senior vice president for the Dodgi;irs. 'Tm telling you, I r,ompletely endorse him. I like his style; I like his philosophy." 
Lasorda was ready when Tracy's status as an unknown with minimal big-league man• agerial experience was men­tioned. 
"That's .what thev said when Walter Alston got hired ­'Walter who?' He did the job for 23 years," Lasorda said. "I think Jim's going to do a good job." 
Tracy was chosen late Tuesday over Dodgers hat­ting coach Rick Down. Eleven candidates were interviewed, according to Dodgers chair­man Bob Daly, including New York Yankees coaches Willie Randolph and Chris Chambliss. and former Los 
Angeles  pitcher  Orel  
Hershiser.  
"His  loyalty  to  Davey  

impressed me," Daly said. "\\That I liked about Jim is he didn't answer the questions the way he thought we want­ed to hear them answered." 
Ripken signs one-year contract with Baltimore 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Bather than become a free agent, Cal Ripken agreed Wednesday to another $6.3 million, one-year contract with the Baltimore Orioles. 
"Obviously, I am very pleased to have the contract completed," Ripken said. 

"I always Ripken have been an Oriole and I always want to be an Oriole. My back feels great and I'm looking forward to having the opportunity to compete." The two-time American League MVP and 18-time All­Star had discussed whether to include an option year for 2002 in the new contract but the sides will take it one year at a time. Ripken, who holds the major league record for most consec­utive games played at 2,632, has spent his entire career with Baltimore. He was limited to 86 games in 1999 because of lower back pain and missed two months last season for the same rea­son. Ripken hit .256 this year with 15 homers and 56 RBIs, including .282 with two homers and 12 RBIs in September after returning from a lengthy stint on the disabled list. 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
"Cal showed in September that he still has the desire and the ability to be an everyday player, and we look forward to having him back strong and healthy next year," said Syd Thrift, Orioles vice president 
for baseball operations. 
Toronto catcher Darrin 

Fletcher, also eligible to file, 
agreed to a $7.75 million, 
two-year contract. The Blue 
Jays also agreed to a 
$475,000, one-year deal with 
outfielder Todd Greene, who 
was eligible for salary arbi­
tration. 
A day after declining 

options on Jeff Fassero, ­
Ramon Martinez, Pete Schourek and Tim Wakefield, the Boston Red Sox exercised a $1.66 million option on right-handed reliever Hipolito Pichardo. 
Arizona declined a $5 mil­lion option on 34-year right­handor Armando Reynoso, electing to pay a $500,000 buyout, and agreed to a one­year contract with 41-year-old right-hander Mike Morgan. 
Twenty-one players filed for free agency, including New York Yankees infielder Jose Vizcaino, whose 12th-inning hit won the World Series opener against the Mets, and Texas closer John Wetteland, the MVP of the 1996 World Series for the Yankees. 
Also filing was Detroit out­field er Juan Gonzalez, the subject of trade talk during the season. 
After acquiring the two-time AL MVP from Texas following the 1999 season, the sides attempted to work out an eight-year deal worth about $140 million, but the deal fell apart. 
A total of 109 players have filed, and approximately 36 more are potentially eligible to join them before the Nov. 10 deadline. 
Teams and players may start discussing dollars the follow­ing day. 
.. 

'1 Ji..;,ij,-' • J.' J1 l,.)jJb, ..,..,,. I,. ~ '.:.., ..,_ 
.'r'lfl.;. __ ,.._._-. ...-..1----·--.... ,..tt.-. • .,1;·:•;······......... , •••••••• ., .....~ ................. ,r 
Thursday, November 2, 2000

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
.... 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

DuBose to resign after season 
Associaud Press 
TUSCALOOSA. Ala. 
The sight of Alabama players sitting on the turf in disbelief after a humiliating homecom­ing loss was just too much for one of the proudest programs in college football. 
Coach Mike DuBose will resign at the end of the season, bringing an end to four turbulent seasons. lie survived a sexual harass­ment scandal to lead the Crimson Tide to a confer­ence title last season, but watched the team collapse 

this year. · DuBose 
"I thought Monday in my heart and soul that I need­ed to make a change," athletic director Mal

-
Moore said Wednesday during a news confer­
ence. "We both agreed that new leadership is 
needed to move the program forward." 
Alabama was ranked No. 3 in the preseason poll, with many fans expecting the Tide to roll through their Southeastern Confere~ce oppo­nents and make their way to lhe national title game. 
But the Tide opened with a loss at unranked UClA. were shut out by Southern Mississippi, also lost to Arkansas and Mississippi and fell 40-28 on Saturday to Central Florida. At 3-5, Alabama needs victories in its final three games to make the SEC championship game and stay alive to qualify for a bowl game. 

"We're all pretty much stunned right now," quarterback Tyler Watts said: "We're going to stick together. Across the board, everyone would love nothing more than to win these last three and go to Atlanta for coach." . 
DuBose followed Gene Stallings as coach m 1997, live years after the Tide won their sixth national title. Bear Bryant led Alabama to live titles between 1958-82. 
Moore said DuBose would be paid his salary and benefits through January 2002 and there would be "no lump sum payment." 
DuBose, 47, a former Alabama player and longtime assistant coach, was under contract through Jan. 31, 2004. He is 24-20 in four sea­sons as head coach. 
Moore said he will search for an experienced head coach to replace DuBose, who was given the job without college head coaching experi­ence. 
The athletic director said he would pick a successor without a search committee. lie declined to identify any possible successors but said "you always have coaches in mind in these situations." 
Moore said money would not be an issue, though DuBose's $525,000 annual compensa­tion package made him one of the Southeastern Conference's lowest paid football coaches. 
"We will do what we need to do to move for­ward this program, and_ take it to the level that is expected and demanded of it," Moore said. 
He said Du Bose would coach the team through a bowl game if it makes it that far. 

THE 28th ANNUAL 


SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Madrigal Dinners 
Fri. & Sat., Dec. 1 & 2 at 7 pm 
Sun., Dec. 3 at 2 & 7 pm 
Regina North Lounge 
Madrigal singers from the Saint Mary's College choirs, along with period instruments, jugglers, a jester and a Master ofthe House entertain 200 patrons per performance during a feast fit for a king. 


-1%1­
SAINT 
MARY'S 

COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
The O'Brien-Smith Visiting Scholars Program Presents: 

John F. Kennedy School of Government 

THE PUBLIC IS WELCOME TO ATTEND 
FOR INFORMATION: 631.3277 
RETIREMENT INStlftANCE 

Meyer to start at QB for No. 2 Virginia Tech 
A,sociatcd Press 
RLA.CKSBURG, Va. 
Michael Vick sat out No. 2 Virginia Tech's practice Wednesday, the deadline he set for expecting to start Saturday at No. 3 Miami. 
"We're planning on Dave Meyer being our starting quarter­b a c k , " c o a c h 

Vick
F r a n k Beamer said. "I think Michael is getting better, bul I don't know if there's enough time. He's still questionable and it is going to be a last-minute decision." 
Vick is recuperating from a sprained right ankle suffered last week against Pittsburgh. Meyer. a fifth-year senior, ral­lied the Hokies to a 3 7-34 vic­tory over Pitt. 
"I'm better, but I'm still not able to do what I do," Vick said. "I haven't tried the new brace. but I want to get out there and test it." 
Beamer has said all week that the Hokies have no choice but to plan as if' Meyer will start as they prepare for their toughest game of the season, a Big East showdown likely to decide the conference title and knock the loser from the national championship race. 
The Hokies have won five straight in the series. 
Vick, a leading 1-leisman Trophy contender, tried out a special orthotic brace that is molded to fit his foot and could be worn in a game. 
Trainer Mike Goforth said Vick jogged in the brace on a mini trampoline, which put less stress on the injury than a harder surface. 
"He's still improving day to day, ... but it's a long way from doing what he needs to do in a game," Goforth said. "We're going to have to see how he looks in ½'arm-ups." 
He has said he thought he needed to practice Wednesday to start. 

MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
TIAA-CREF provides financial solutions to last a lifetime. 
Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out how those assets can provide you with a comfortable retirement is quite another. 
At TIAA-CREF, we can help you with both. You. can count on us not only while you're saving and planning for retirement, but in retirement, too. 
Just call us. We'll show you how our flexible range of payout options can meet your retirement goals. 
With TIAA-CREF, you benefit from something few other companies can offer: a total commitment to your financial well-being, today and tomorrow. 
•Note: Availability may depend on your employer's retirement plan provisions contract Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age S9¼ may be subject to restrictions, and may also be subject to a 10% additional tax. Additional restrictions also apply to the TIAA Traditional Annuity. 
Ensuring the future 


With TIAA-CREF, you can receive:* 
• 
Cash withdrawals 

• 
Systematic or fixed-period payments** 

• 
Interest-only payments 

• 
Lifetime income payments** 

• 
A combination of these 


'"Guaranteed by our claims-paying ability. 
CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT1 
27.87% 
26.60%

26.70% 
1 YEAR 
5 Yf.ARS 
SINCE INCEPTION 
4/29/94

AS OF 6/30/00 
6/30/00 

-~---'. ., 
---·~ 

. --~-----~--:>·=-:f>' ., 
.. <. ·:' .. .. 

CREF Growth is one of many CREF variable annuities. 

ii 
1.800.842.2776
for those who shape it.'M 
www. ti aa-cref. org 
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1800 842.2733. ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest 1. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance tod~y may be less than shown above. The invest­ment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflects past performance and are not 1nd1Cat1ve of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their ong1nal price upon redemp­tion. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuItIes. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuItIon savings agreements • TIAA_ and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
Thursday, November 2, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page: 23 
Calendar of Events 
Friday-Saturday, November 3-4 Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Freshmen Retreat #31 
Friday-Sunday, November 3-5 Fatima Retreat Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #63 
Saturday. November 4 Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception Fort Wayne. Indiana · 
Folk Choir Jubilee Concert &Tour Vigil Mass -5:00 p.m. . Concert of Sacred Mmk-.7:30p.m. · 
Sunday. November 5, 1 :30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel .. 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Patrick M. Neary/csc ·· 
November 6-27 103 Hesburgh Library .. 
Begin Sign-up, FJ'e$hmen Retreat #32 (Dec. 1-2, 2000) 
Targeted Dorm.s: Carroll; Cavanaugh; Fisher, Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford; ~nd · Welsh Family 
Monday-Tuesday, November 6-7 
11:30 pm-10:00 pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Eucharistic·Adoration 
Tuesday. November 7 • .7:00 pm' Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, November?, 7:00'pm Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation -Session #4 
Wednesday, November 8, 10:00 pm Morrissey Hall Chapel 


Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Thirty-first Sunday in Ordinary Time .·0 .>: 
.· ,~:,:; './{/::r '< : . . ..•. . .,,'W;},.,,,~.F'.. 
Weekend•. Pr~,i~I~~;~··
• • . . ?'tq,;;;;. '1;}'<·1~~;;.' .'<"'"" Basdrca ofthe 
S~re. ;/ nr'L: "'. 
Saturday,. November 4"1Mass· ~: 
5,:00p.m..:, · :· ·,·\•:~ },·•z 
Rev. James K~ 'Eo{t'ij,t:f:
, . -_ -~~ :-t ". ,.. ,-_. '· '!'"-~ 
· 

Sunday, Novem 
10:00 a.m. · Rev. Ml a . 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. William A Wack;::crs~c. ' ;L:;ti:r ;;: ~\ 

Scripture .Rea.dlr,g.~.•r.·•:>j':•··.·~'."~;1~·~,;,·,:;.:t}~. for this Coming Suod<ay~;; 
1st Reading ,:ne6:'z:.;.,c,:,:·>:,:r,:': :~ ·~:,;· 
, .. ·· '\or'\;· n:"·•.,·'s("' ·•·•· 

2nd Reading Heb7:'23'.,.,.i28; MkJ:2~'8b,.:a4..
Gospel 
Challenge yourself 
by Fr. Gary Chamberland, c.s.c. 
I have webbed toes. I'm no duck, but the second and third toes on my right foot are 1/2 attached and 3/4 attached on my left. Today, I will show my unique roes off to others, especially after someone has wowed a crowd with the ability to roll a tongue or pop both shoulders out ofjoint at the same time. Today, I can laugh at the exclamations of disgust, but that hasn't always been the case. 
I remember being eight years old and standing with Maria Wool in front of Mrs. Lenahan's house. Maria looked down at my flip-flops and barked, "That's gross!" I didn't understand her disgust until she pointed at my feet and expressed her total revulsion. She proclaimed that I should never be allowed to go barefoot. 
Mortified, I set out to never bear my feet in public again. From then on, I wore socks 
-

and sneakers all summer long. I would hide my toes under blankets at the beach and attempted to keep ochers from ever seeing chose miserable digits. 
I was humiliated by my human flaw and, at times, thought less of myself as a person because of them. No amount ofsuccess in school or praise for my efforts could ever completely overcome my shame. I was broken, incomplete, not quite right. 
If that was my experience growing up with and coming to terms with something as insignificant as webbed toes, imagine what it must be like to accept that one is gay. Think about how hard it must be to come to self-acceptance as a lesbian at a place like Notre Dame -where "gay" is used as a put down of anything not deemed worthy of merit or concern. Imagine what it is like to know that .one of the deepest, most intimate parts of yourself, a constitutive aspect of your very person, is deemed sick and unacceptable by the people around you. 
Several times in chis last year at Notre Dame, a young man or woman has invited me in and shared the fact that he or she is homosexual. These are powerful moments. Some are just coming to an understanding of their sexuality, while others have been self-aware since ­
high school. All are attempting to discover what this 
Commit yourself reality will mean for them, wrestling with the 
to acknowledging the Church's teaching, with societal expectations and 
with the differing images of gay life in America. All 
goodness and 
deserve the respect and concern of this community. 
worth ot every Homosexuality and its sexual expression are 
issues of morality and faith. They are topics that 
person, gay or straight. 
need to be discussed openly and honestly in both 
Do not participate in 
religious circles and the public square. The church's 
degrading comments teaching must be honestly taught and Catholics are 
called to study and understand this teaching in its 
about others and 
entirety. As a church, we are called to present this 
commit yourself to teaching fairly and clearly so that no one is misled as 
to its premises or its expectations. 
CHALLENGING those 
But we must also remember that homosexuality
who do. 
is a deeply personal reality which affects people in 
our very midst. Homosexuals live and work at our University; they are our teachers and our 
classmates; they work in our offices and empty our trash. Made in the image and likeness 
of God, they struggle to live good lives, to excel at their work and to make the world a 
better place while striving co come to a more complete sense ofwho they are and where 
they stand in that world. 
This coming Sunday, the Notre Dame community will again challenge itself to be a 
place where all are accepted and loved for who they are. At campus masses, prayer cards 
will be distributed that call us to a greater sense of community while celebrating the diver­
sity in our midst. Take time in the days ahead to make an honest examination of con­
science and assess your attitudes, your words and behaviors. Are you creating an environ­
;:n~~~::s:;~rc::~;ea~a:~:i~:~~:~~:n:/te:rg::;~:r:::::~:~:;:~:1:no:~;;!~:rn;e~:-~:;: 
and the disrespect of others? Commie yourself to acknowledging the goodness and worth of 
every person, gay or straight. Do not participate in degrading comments about others and 
commit yourself to challenging those who do. Commit yourself to a greater openness 
toward others and perhaps a friend, roommate or colleague sensing that movement will 
invite you into a greater knowledge of his or her life. It is when we deepen chose ties that 
bind us sharing the deepest, most meaningful aspects of our lives that we become more ­
fully the Body of Christ. \Vhen we uphold the dignity of every person and help each other 111¦1 
grow in Christian maturity, we boldly witness to the call of faith and love God and neigh-(Z\MPLJ5 
bor more completely. MINISTRY 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 2, 2000 
"I l was heartbreaking to ing the game -we were right
I 
t have to sit out and watch and there with them. Next year the
.... Soccer 
not be able to play," Muth scores might go our way.
•
I said. "But I was really Nowe we've seen what we are
continued from page 28
' impressed with the team and up against. Most of the teams
' 
'I lessons that I know were valu­how they came together and that we played against will be able for the team in the played their hearts out to the the same." future," Milligan said. "If it end. When you step back from And the Belles themselves was easy, everyone would do the situation you can see the will remain relatively intact. it. .. heart of the team shine Laura Paulen, who played 
And that is perhaps the through." midfield this season after quality that markt"d the Belles The Belles squad was deci­spending most of her previous this year: determination. mated with injuries this year. seasons back on defense, is "Most teams would give up," Saint Mary's began competi­the only senior on the squad. Milligan said. "One thing that I tion without Adrian Kirby and The Belles retain juniors and like best about this team was Irvin. who did not rejoin their co-captains Klink. goalie Tia their character. We were able teammates until the Kapphahn, and Katy Robinson to finish off strong. Manchester game, the fifth of as well as Kirby and Priganc. Our best games were at the the season. Muth played the Muth, Brasseur, Shawna end of the year. The improve­entire season with a sore leg Jiannoni, and Lynn Taylor ment was incredible." before ending it with more were the sophomores on the 
The Belles went from a team serious injuries. Junior co­squad. And the freshmen, easily intimidated by top captain Jessica Klink and Artnak, Irvin, Erchick, Green, league teams to one that was sophomore transfer Alissa Wheat, Kristin Greenwood, a formidable opponent. The Brasseur left the Belles at Catherine Valent, and fresh­Belles had trouble with com­nearly the same time, man goalie Laura Metzger will munication, scoring, and Brasseur for the season with a also return. defense. Even if the round­heel injury. Klink rejoined her "Now we've seen Lhe hard 
I
,_ robin play didn't improve the teammates after fall break. times and no one wants to go 
I 
Belles' season record, it easily Freshman Emily Erchick sepa­do that again," Muth said.
' 
illustrates their improvement. rated her shoulder and suf­"Everyone's looking forward After losing to top-ranked fered a concussion to end her to turning the team around Albion 7-0 early in the season, rookie season after fall break. and being successful." the Belles fought all the way Junior Kristen Priganc was Saint Mary's was held to to a 5-1 loss, holding the even­out for several games midsea­only l 5 goals this year, and "Since we had so many tain things better than I can. tual 2000 MIAA champions to son with a back injury. ends with an overall 3-10-1 in injuries, many of the girls had He is gifted in different areas 2-1 for the first half. Their "It's unfortunate that this the MIAA and stands at 3-13-1 to play positions that they and we complement each final game of the season season went the way it. did overall. The 2000 squad spent weren't familiar with," other well." against !lope saw them because we have a really tal­much of the season working Milligan said. "We improved Milligan hopes to be able to improve from a previous 3-0 ented group on this team," on their scoring. our skills in every facet of the look back on this season as a loss to a 4-3 loss in sudden­Muth said. "After a difficult "Scoring goals is about step­game." learning experience, both for death overtime. experience like our team went ping up and making shots and Milligan is assisted in his himself and for his players. 
"Teams go through a rough through it can only get better. taking risks," Milligan said. coaching by second-year assis­"This year was hard on patch," Muth said. It definitely will." "It's something that is hard to tant coach Jared Hochstetler. everybody," Milligan said. "It "Unfortunately, ours was a Muth sees the round-robin teach, but it is something we "I really appreciate the job was one of those years that long one. But we got through play as an advantage, at least are getting close to. It takes that my asstant coach did and you build and build and build it. We linished strong and we in terms of next season. practice. It takes repetition. the support of my athletic and never really get to the top. ,' have to go from here." "I think that we know our We put a lot of time into it this staff," Milligan said. "One But you know it is there. We I competition real well now and year." thing that [Hochstetler] does did get the unity we were
I Muth sat out the final games
I 
I after suffering injuries to her realize that we can challenge Milligan was also pleased real well is that he stays after looking for by dealing with the I head and neck during fall all of them," Muth said. "If you with the versatility of his practice to work with particu­injuries and the other stuff we break. were at our games and play-squad. lar players. He can teach cer-had to go through." 
I
~­
I 
I I 
Win two free season tickets! 
t 
I 
I Pizza I 
' Question and Answer 
Hear about his experience 
In his fjfStappearan.ce 
as a Catholic school teacher 
betore the ND 
and coach

student body 
:I ., 
' 
' 
I 
' 
,I I 
'I 
I I • 
-



;. ..... Thursday, November 2, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 

HORSE RACING 
Fusaichi Pegasus favored to win 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. 

Fusaichi Pegasus is back at the scene of his greatest tri­umph, and this time he could be the star of a show with an international cast. 
The Kentucky Derby winner was made the 8-5 early favorite Wednesday to win the $4.77 million Breeders' Cup Classic on Saturday at Churchill 0.owns, although he has raced only once because of minor hoof problems since being upset in the Preakness on May 20. 
It will be the last race for the 3-ycar-old colt, who will be retired to breeding under a deal valued at $60 million­$70 million. 
Trainer Neil Drysdale said 
Tlmrsdaqs oPe students nlqht. .StuJenfs Peceive 2596 off meal f'l'iee witl. 1:fOUP sfud"nt I.D. 
U£I 

Mtcl.tana•s most unique dininq e,r.p••i•nce L0cafeJ rn fl.e brewe•q at tbe H;sfof'ic 100 Cenfer in Mislaawalco (219) 257-1792 www.100centeP.com 
11EBII BIG EAST WOMEN'S 
ERST SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIP 
CONFERENCE 

Fridav, Nov. 3 Semifinals
.. 

Syracuse 5 pm. vs. Connecticut 
#1 NOTRE DAME 7 pm vs. Boston College 
Sunday, Nov. 5 12 pm FINALS 

he is pleased with how Fusaichi Pegasus is coming up to the race, "but, on paper, this looks like a severe test. I'm always nervous about everything. If you have been around long enough, you know the improbable can happen. I don't take anything for granted." 
Fusaichi Pegasus won the one-mile Jerome Handicap Sept. 23 at Belmont Park for his sixth victory in seven starts this year. 
Five of Fusaichi Pegasus' rivals in the 14-horse field also are 3-year-olds --Albert the Great, Captain Steve, Tiznow, England-based Giant's Causeway and Ireland-based Pine Dance. Two other contenders are 1999 Classic winner Cat Thief 

and Lemon Drop Kid. All of these horses havc won important stakes. 
The 1 1/4-mile Classic is one of eight Breeders' Cup races, with total purse of $15.2 million. 
While Giant's Causeway, a winner of five Group I stakes in England this year and making his dirt-track debut, is a 5-1 co-second choice with Albert the Great, Tiznow and Lemon Drop Kid, foreign invaders are favored in two other races. 
Petrushka, winner of her last three starts in Ireland and England, is the 5-2 early choice to beat 13 rivals in the 1 3-8-mile Filly Maro Ttirf. Her chief rival could be Perfect Sting. winner of the Diana Handicap at Saratoga. 
The 5-2 early pick in 

the 1 1/2-mile Turf is Montjeu, winner of 11 of 15 career starts in England, Ireland. France and Japan, but a loser of his last two. Among 12 rivals are Kalanisi, sec­ond in the Juddmontc International and winner of the Dubai Champion in England in his last two starts, and Manndar, win­ner of the Woodford Reserve Turf Classic at Churchill Downs and the Manhattan Handicap at Belmont Park. 
Riboletta, a supplemen­tal entry for $400,000, is the odds-on favorite to win the 1 1/8-mile Distaff for her seventh straight stakes victory. Also in the field of nine fillies and mares is Beautiful Pleasure, winner of the Distaff last year when she 
was champion older filly or mare. 
Clark 
continued from page 28 
-where." 

Just over a year since first visiting campus, Clark knows he is one injury away from starting for the most storied college football program in the country. 
"You grow up quick when you come up here," Clark said. 
Davie, Holtz nominated for award 
Their personalities and pub­lic perceptions differ greatly. But their similar coaching suc­cesses this season have earned them a chance for a major honor. 
On Wednesday, Davie and former coach Lou Holtz were named two of the ten finalists for the Football News coach-of­the-year award. 
One year after finishing 0-11, Holtz's South Carolina team is currently 7-2 and ranked No. 
TONIGHT!!! FREE!! 7 pm in SDH 
open Karaoke to foil ow 
,:,J Question andAnswerSession 
s11onsored .._ --••h Hall 
-

22 in the Associated Press poll. 
"It's kind of ironic," Davie said. "Talk about a super coaching job. I haven't fol­lowed South Carolina closely but what they've done, particu­larly defensively, is unbeliev­able." 
The Irish's transformation from an underachieving squad in 1999 to a possible BCS appearance has also caught the attention of the nomina­tors. 
"They must have done that right after Glenn Earl blocked that field goal," Davie said. "The ballots still probably weren't counted with three seconds left in the game. They probably waited until after the game. 
"It makes me proud that peo­ple see that this football team· s improved, that this football team's probably overcome some obstacles," Davie said. "I think it's really a positive state­ment about these players and these assistant coaches." 
As well as the head coach. 

g 
w ,1e .. 
r 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 2, 2000 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Notre Dame closes out fall season at Colorado Invitational 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Spom Wri1cr 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team heads into their final tournament of the fall sea• son on Thursday looking to cap a very impressive run thus far. Coming 
off a SUC· 
cessful tournament in Colorado where they dominated the compe• Dasso 


, tition, the 
I I Irish look to start putting the tinishing touches on a signature
1­
1 season. 
,I The Irish have played strong 
I throughout their lineup all year.
I I 
I They ure led by their core of experienced veterans including Michelle Dasso. Becky Varnum, Kim Guy, and Nina Vaughan. Besides the solid play of the upperclassmen, the surprise of the year has to be the talent among the group of freshmen on the team. With senior Michelle Dasso not competing in the Colorado Invitational, it gave some of the younger girls an opportunity to step up their game against tougher oppo• nents. And that's exactly what they did. 
"We did really well playing as a team.~ freshman Cay Ian Leslie said. "Since we are so close it helps us push each other to do that much better." 


Leslie, from Newport Beach, Calif., has been one of the most consistent players for the Irish this year. She entered college after being ranked as high as 11th in the USTA national top 18 last year and came into this season as the sixth highest ranked freshman in the nation. 
It has been a long road since the first practice in August and then the first match at the Maryland Invitational but Leslie has steadily improved each week earning herself one of the top spots in the Irish lineup. 
"I was so nervous in the first match but with each tourna­ment I get more confidence," Leslie said. "I really do not feel that there is that much pressure on me right now." 
One of the most important reasons for her success so far, Leslie says, has been the sup­port from her coach and most importantly her teammates. 
"They have been really sup­portive and showed me how to be a good team member." Leslie said. "They have really showed me by example and have taught me to be patient." 
Leslie has been anything but patient in gathering wins in her first collegiate season. After three singles wins last tourna­ment she hopes to play even better in the Midwest Regional Tournament in Ann Arbor, Mich. this weekend. This tour• nament will be the last for the Irish this fall and they hope to end it on a high note and begin to prepare for the spring sea· son. 
"I hope to do really well,,. Leslie said. "I would like to win a few rounds because I know the competition is really tough. 
"I have been happy with the way I have played so far and I hope to improve. I just want to improve and take it from there." 
The Irish will be sending their best girls to compete against top players from the Midwest and Big East. Dasso. Varnum, Vaughan, Lindsay Green, Guy. and Leslie will all be represent• ing the Irish in singles play. Dasso and Varnum and Guy and 

al .€­
~ 

~­
,::, 

LOW ~ 
N 
,:;; 
0 
.Q C al ::, 
::, Cl

::::;; CDstudent ::, -n 
"'ti 
~ 
C:
Airfares 
CD 

CD P> 
::, 
,..
Eurailpasses ro 6 
More Than 100 Departure Cities 
Study Abroad 
-C:•. 
student UnlV8rSe ~ 
IT'S VOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT 

• 

studentuniverse.com 
800.272.9676 

Cunha will be competing .in dou· ment the women will take some they will take on Duke bles as well. After this tourna· time off until January when University. 

Most ND S,tudents 
Make Healthy Choices 

~ 
i -[ ::::, 
'ffi 
~ 
[ 
l 
f 
1 
i 

More than 80% drink only once 
I 

a week or less frequently. 
f 
§

Many ND students choose NOT to drink alcohol.* l 
A message from PILLARS with Alcohol & Drug Education 311 Lafortune Student Center University ofNotre Dame (219) 631-7970 http://www.nd.edu/~aldrug/ 
---------~-~--~~~--~-------------------------------:.~--,,--------,=----------------·--------,.·1­
1 
Thursday, November 2, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
I 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
~N Al.ERT LISTENER INFORME.D
PRO~AMMING MEETINGS AT U9! FM 
ME THAT WE PLAYED 8RITNEY ·· I THINK. I HAVE Ni:XT SPEARS l"IFTY-EIGHT TIMES ' MONTH'S PLAY LIST
I WAS THINK!~ THAT MAYSE THIS 
LAST WEEK. fl.JYS, YOU SHOULD WORJi'.E!) OUT. HOW
WEEK WE COULi) PLAY SOME OLDER MUSIC. 
KNOW SETTER IT'S SUPPOSEb DOES "MATCHBOX 20,YOI.I KNOW, LIKE FROM SEPTEMBER? 
TO BE NINETY. AT LEAST. 'N SYNC, BACKSTREET 
Fox TROT  
MOM, 1S IT OIC 1F PETER GOES OVER To STE\/E'S HOUSE To PLAY GulTAR?  IS HIS RooM CLEAN?  UM, NO.  

,----~y,ii1,80YS. REPEAT" SOUN!>. 
'1oU TELL HIM HE'LL SE 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
..J
\YTT-IATFTY j 
NOTRE DAME 

J 
USTENEAS ARE 
OOWN LET'S PUNISH THEM WITH ANOTHER PE? RAU..Y 
BILL AMEND 

IN BIG TROUBLE IF HE WHY NOT? 
TR1ES GOING AN'YWHERE 8 \ BEFoRE THAT RooM j BECAUSE GETS PICICEO UP. I i HE'S o\lER 
AT STEVE'S.

~/CAN(. i 
.I 
i 

Remember one thing when you get dressed to 
l 
i:11,.-'-.;;_~......:;;.;.o..,~­

go out tonight. A tight shirt doesn't make you
!,_.,

L-L--.....l~'--'--~-....lo...l 
look more muscular. 

HOROSCOPE 
TIIURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON nns DAY: k.d. Jang, Stefanie Powers, Burt Lancaster, Esther Valentine, Keith Emerson, Allie Woodard 
Happy Birthday: You will be energetic, well-informed and eager to take on the world. Your strong will and hotshot attitude will bring the success you've been looking for as well as additional confidence and fortitude. You will not need ;o rely on others to help you get to where you want to go. You will take action without thinking twice about what you have to accomplish. Your num­bers: 8, 19, 23, 31, 39, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You won't be seeing tltings too accurately at an emotional level. Don't let your personal situation interfere with your productivity at work. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Problems with female co0workers will lead to uncertainties regarding your position. Don't become involved in gossip if you wish to remain in a good position. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Deception around finances and legal 
affairs is evident. Be careful when 
you sign contracts or agreements.
Puzzle by Elizabeth C. Gorski 
You will have to get sound advice 32 Chemistry 46 Half a decade 55 Whip mark before making important decisions. 
000
Nobelist Otto 47 Wool type 
56 Sudden game 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You 33 La_ tar pits 50 Indy 500 sound ending may not have been completely hon­est with yourself or your mate about
34 Rocky, for 51 Where to live 57 One with 
your feelings. Try not to blow situa­
Stallone the high fife? ground strokes? 
tions out of proportion concerning 35 Newts 53 Play for the 58 Prefix with in-laws and relatives. 00 European LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your boss
37 Amount for film Bruins, say 
may not be telling you the whole
tickets and such 
truth. Get promises in writing. Verbal 38 Coffee order Answers to any three clues in this puzzle agreements will be soon forgotten. 
Rumors will not be an accurate ac­
39 Teutonic war god are available by touch-tone phone: 
count of the situation at hand. 000 
40 Scribe 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't fool yourself. Diets and getting in shape take work. Don't look for quick ways to make changes or money. Use your creativity and mind for details to work slowly toward your objectives. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Uncer­tainties at home will lead to ques­tioning your feelings. Do a little dig­ging. Someone you live with may not be telling you all the facts. You may want to spend some time by yourself to thiru:. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Edu­cational pursuits will be informative, but not necessarily helpful with regard to your present situation. Don't divulge secrets to those who will use them against you later on. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Financial deals will not be as they appear. Don't donate to organi­zations you know nothing about. Friends may expect you to pay their way. Tighten your purse strings. 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will only be fooling yourself if you don't face your problems head­on. You have an unreal view of your personal situation and must sort it out before things can get better. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Secret enemies may be trying to make vou look bad. Don't lash out at those who haven't been fair. The best revenge will come through your own successes. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): ­Don't gamble or get into dubious get-rich-quick schemes. You need to take care of your health. Lowered vitality will lead to infections and other minor ailments. 000 

Annual subscriptions are available for the Birthday Baby. You are surefooted, steadfast and methodical. You're good 43 Sheltered side best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 at keeping things to yourself and will rarely let others know your plans until you are prepared to initiate them. You are observant, cautious and willing to 
45 Frittered (away) years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
go the distance to achieve your dreams. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Rapscallions 
5 Kind of car 10 Squabble 14 Society news 15 Weird 16 Slip (into) 17 Zing 18 Instruction for 
murder? 19 Part of the Walt Disney Co. 20 Beginning of a 
quip 23 Bean sprouts? 24 Sign of success 25 Some Harvard 
grads: Abbr. 26 Baseball's Cobb 
and others 27 Stumblebum 31 Bread choice 
33 Phrase on a party invitation 36 Part of A.D. 37 More of the quip 40 French film 
41 "Backroads" singer Ricky Van 
42 Actress Tatum 44 Dry run 45 New Deal org. 48 Prime-time hrs. 49 One of the 
Gabors 52 Chalk-colored 54 End of the quip 59 Actress 
Swenson 60 ''The Silence of the Lambs" releaser 61 Brahms's " Rhapsody"-.­

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

R S E 
B A L S ...,.-t,,c:-t-:::-t--=--:-t--:-t-:-t-::"1 0 C E A --+-+-~ R I A M E R l":71t-='1-;;-t-;-;_.-=-t'.~;:-'t::~r:-:-t:::-t-;:;0:1-:-;N~S 
R N E 
I A L 
T R 
1 A C E 
L E A 
62 Do a caulking job 63 Seeing pink elephants 64 Shed item 65 Phoenician trading center 66 Paris underground 67 Old Icelandic literary work 
DOWN 
1 Words said with a nod 2 Food poisoning, e.g. 3 Cry to actors on a set 4 Man in a red­and-white suit 
5 Poor blokes 
6 Throw in the towel 7Area code so1 
locale 8 City on the Rhone 9 Take exception 
10 Eyeballs 
11 Place for a bowl 12 Wannabe 
13 Takes care of 
21 Spot in the ocean 
22 Parent's order 

1-,T,,...,;H,+,E~~::1-~:-=:++-,,,-=-+-,-111~--i--CU:.i-::M+:-e-1N 28 Singer Redding H E A =t,,.,.+:::-t= L I O 29 "Oops ... " E A R ......._.__.__ P U R N 30 Dogma 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
---~~----~-----------~---------------------~---------------~~-------~----­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and ~aint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name 
Address -------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 



Signed 
Hasebatrs ironman Cal 
Rip ken Jr. will return for another season. lie signed a one-year deal with 
PORTS 
Baltimore. 
page 21 
O
THE 

page 28 BSERVER Thursday, November 2, 2000 
FOOTBALL 

Freshman QB Clark thrust into backup role 
By TIM CASEY Assistanr Sports Ediror 

.. 
Matt LoVecchio and Jared Clark were both highly recruit­ed quarterbacks about to enter their senior years in high 
school when they first met in the summer of 1999. They traveled from New Jersey and Florida to attend Notre Dame's football camp ror another chance to impress the coaches, another chance to be seen. 
Their recollectio,ns of that week'' 
"lie doesn't remember me being there," Clark said. "But I remembPr him." 
And how could he not7 Lovecchio differentiates him­self from most 18-year olds with his calm, confident demeanor. 13 ut sometime soon, maybe this year, college football fans will know Clark. When coach Bob Davie announced Gary Godsey had been switched to tight end on Sunday, suddenly Clark was thrust into the ·backup role. 
"If we had an opportunity," offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers said, "we'd like to get him in the game." 
Talk about a role reversal. 
Clark began the year as the fourth-string quarterback and intended to learn the playbook, adjust to college life and save a year of eligibility. He dominat­ed at Cardinal Mooney high school in Sarasota. Fla., throw­ing for 1,372 yards. running for 741 yards and accounting for 27 total touchdowns. Whereas in high school his superior skills could compen­sate for a broken play, Clark quickly realized that in college he had to learn several "intan­gibles", including reading defenses. 


"In high school I never had to do that," Clark said. "It was just throw the ball to the opfrn guy. Now it's just so many reads in split seconds. I'm get­ting the ball there but I'm get­ting it there a little late." 
But the coaches have seen improvement and have noticed his physical gifts. 
'Tm not saying he's a 100­meter sprinter but the guy can run," Rogers said. "And he's got a cannon of an arm. Technically. he's got as good a release as any quarterback you ever want to be around." 
Strong praise for a freshman who has yet to play a down. Davie informed Clark before the Air Force game that he might see some action but with the fourth quarter collapse, the Irish stuck with LoVecchio. 
For Clark, having a class­mate starting does not bother 
him. In fact, ho has nothing 
but praise for Lovecchio. 
"Matt's a step above me and 
Carlyle (Holiday,)" Clark said. 
"LoVecchio's done a great job, 
especially in the games. 
"When I came here, I was 
pretty nervous but he 
(Lovecchio) stood in there and 
did a great job from day one." 
Besides the apprehension, ·ctark also felt. aggravation early this season. Like many freshmen, he had unrealistic expectations after earning all the high school accolades. 
'.'I was pretty discouraged before," Clark said. "I don't know why but then I had to step back and look at the big picture. I was No. 3 (quarter­back) and I'm only a freshman. Now, I'm No. 2. I guess I can't complain." 
Neither can Bogers. When he received letters of intents from the quarterback trio in February, he knew they were special. 
Upon further review, HogPrs would even deem "special" as an understatement to describe the group. 
"In your wildest dreams, you didn't think you'd get all three," Hogers said. "It was a recruiting coup. I don't know if you'll ever see that again any-
see CLARK/page 25 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Young Belles squad struggles throughout 2000 campaign 
- By SARAH RYKOWSKI Sports Writer  non-league games, which Milligan was not pleased with. "The shift to the double round-robin  year. "At the end of last year, I had to recruit a team," Milligan said. "We  ward Wendy Irvin scored five goals after sitting out the first half of the season with a leg injury. Freshman  
made it so we had to play more physi­ definitely have some spots to work on,  defender Patricia Wheat also scored in  
After a sixth-place finish in the MIM  cal teams more often," Milligan said.  but this year we're just going to fill in  the win against Adrian over fall break.  
and a winning record of 9-6-2 overall,  "We had girls separate shoulders, get  the gaps. The experience that the  Milligan knew entering in this season  
the Belles entered the 2000 season  concussions, and suf­ freshmen and sopho­ that the freshmen he recruited would  
with high hopes, thinking they had nowhere to go but up. The season told a different story.  fer leg injuries. We got beat on." Saint Mary's was  "You'd like to go straight from point A to point B  mores got will be helpful for n·ext year's freshmen, because  be a great asset to the team, but even he was surprised. "When Wendy was corning here, she  
"We came in last year and we were  forced to adjust, and  with none ofthe hard  they will be able to  was a defender," Milligan said. "I was  
real successful," second-year Belles head coach Jason Milligan said. "You'd  adjust quickly. Saint Mary's eight freshmen  stuffin between. "  say 'I went through that."'  planning on playing her at defense." When Irvin and her classmates  
like to go straight from point A to point  and  one  sophomore  And indeed, it was  arrived. however, Milligan discovered  
n with  none  of the  hard  stuff in  transfer stepped into  Jason Milligan  the  freshmen  and  that several of them. including Irvin,  
between." The Belles soon  learned that just  the gaps left by the graduation of four  Belles' head soccer coach  sophomores who filled in the gaps for the  had the ability to play and succeed at other positions. Katie Green, another  
surviving this season would be dif'fi­cult. The MIAA instituted a double­ seniors and the loss of several other players who did not elect  Belles. Sophomore co­captain Heather Muth, the leading  Belles freshman, began the season at forward. After the Belles defensive  
round robin system in place of previ­ to return to the Belles this year.  freshman scorer last year, finished  corps were decimated by injury,  
ous years' competition. Instead of play­ "They got accustomed to it," Milligan  with 4 goals and numerous assists.  Milligan moved her to defense and  
ing each league team once and then  said. "It was a big transition from the  Two freshmen from Texas were scor­ she quickly made herself at home.  
participating in a season-ending tour­ high-school game to the college game."  ing mainstays for the Belles. Midfielder  "This year we learned some hard  
nament, the Belles faced each league team twice, leaving less time to play  The freshmen did such a good job that Milligan is looking forward to next  Stephanie Artnak led the team with 6 goals, 3 from penalty kicks, and for- see SOCCER/page 24  

.. 
• Big East Semifinals at. Miami (OH) 
vs. Boston College ~·
SPORTS • Women's Swimming Friday, 7:35 p.m.
·~ 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
at Miami (OH) quad meetATA Friday, 4 p.m 
Men's Swimming vs. Boston College ar Oakland Saturday, Nov. 11 
.

GLANCE ~ ~ 
Friday, 7:30 p.m, 
3:30 p.m. 




