
Backstreet Boys vs Britney 
Who wins the ultimate battle ofthe boy bands and teen divas? Look to "He said, She said" to find out. 
Scene . page 13 

THE 
VOLXXXIII NO. 78 

Wadsworth resigns 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN News Wrirer 
Michael Wadsworth"s fiw~-year reign us athletic director at Nutrc Dame will soon end. Wadsworth and University president Edward Malloy, announced yesterday. . 
"We have come through the NCAA matter," Wadsworth said. "We are reaching tlrn end of' the current l'ive­year plan in tlw athletic department, and my pcirsonal f'ive-year commit­nrnnt to tlw University also is about lo tmd." 
Malloy said the University is restruc­turing tlrn administration of the atb­lntic departnwnt in response to the violations found by the NCAA in the Kimlwrly Dunbar investigation. Notre Dami:' lost two scholarships and rnceived probation due to the improp­er gifts given to Irish football players by Dunbar, a f'ornrnr booster, who Pin bPzzlml morn than $1. 2 mill inn f'rom lwr employer. 
"Mike Wadsworth and I have n•ached this agnrnment based on a number of factors," Malloy said. "I stated in December that the University's response to the recent problems in our football program had included a comprehensive external review of our athletic policies and pro­cedures. 
"As a result of that review, I have dP.cided to institute a substantial restructuring of' administrative responsibilities in athletics," he con­tinued. "In light of this restructuring, !'vtike's fiv1i-year commitment, and the conclusion of the current five-year plan in athletics, he and I agree that now is the time for a fresh start for us both." 
"Reflecting on the tim­ing of all these events with the restructuring that Father M.alloy intends to carry out," Wadsworth sa.id, "I believe it's in both the University's and my best interests to end my tenure this year." 
Wadsworth met with coaches and staff of the athletic department to announce his resignation Monday. The news was unexpecled, according to members of the athletic department. 
"I think we're all sad­dened that we're losing a great boss and a great leader !'or the depart­ment," associate athletic dirPctor Melissa Conbov 

s~d. . Head track and field coach Joe Piane added his surprise at the announcement of Wadsworth's departure. "[It's] probably a little bit of surprise," Piane said. "He's done a fine job. Too much has been made of one or two small incidents, but under his five years, the athletic department certainly has flourished. Restructuring is upon us." Wadsworth's role as athletic director was questioned last year when 
German train crash 

Eight people are dead and 149 injuired due to the overnight express wreck this past weekend. 
WorldNation . page 5 

Tuesday 
FEBRUARY 8, 
2000 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

University officials rejected his endorsement of Utah coach Rick Majerus to replace men's basketball coach John MacLeod. 
Some Notre Dame fans also criti­cized Wadsworth when legendary 

football coach Lou Holtz resigned in 1996, to be replaced by Bob Davie. Davie has a 21-16 record during his three years at the helm for the 
see WADSWORTH/page 4 



Despite appeals, committee gives Renner/Nagle the win 
The Monday, Jan. 31 election or if they would have abstained "Emily and I don't believe in edgeable of the constitution and By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
featured four tickets with so we made the decision we the appeal," said Rodarte. "Not have the background to make Ass<lciac~ News Editor Il:onrwr/Nagle taking 43 percent thought was best. having provisions in the constitu­informed decisions," said Midden. of the vote and Koelsch/ Rodarte "We looked at the vote from tion in case The Koelsch/Rodarte ticket ini­After an election period filled earning 37 Monday's initial election [on Jan. of a tie was 
tially secured victory in a second with an unprecrmdented tie and percent of 31] and who had the majority of a lack of run-off election Friday, carrying two appeals, Crissie Renner and tlrn vote. In the votes. We decided that is foresight on 51 percent, after the first run-off Michelle Nagel will lead Saint order for a who ended up winning." the part of election between the two tickets Mary's as the 2000-2001 student ticket to be The Koelsch/Rodarte ticket filed student gov­on Wednesday was declared a body president and vice presi­declared vic­an appeal Monday, stating that ernment. tie. The student government con­dent. torious and the decision to use the raw votes We feel we stitution does not have bylaws 
The Board of Governance clec­not need a from the Jan. 31 and Wednesday, are basically regarding what to do in the event tion appeals board denied an run-off elec­Feb. 2 elections was not a valid being pun-of a tie. Student activities direc­appeal filed Monday by the presi­tion, the tick­representation of the wishes of ished for Koelsch tor, Georgeanna Rosenbush dtmtial ticket of Emily Koelsch et must earn the student body. Tho appoal also t h a t . authorized Friday's election. and Racheln Hodarte in response 50 percent stated that if Renner's appeal Because this is something that "It is a matter of how you inter­to the decision made Sunday plus one vote. However, the was submitted after 7:45 p.m. on none of the tickets could control, pret the bylaws," said Rosenbush. night by the Election Committee Election Appeals board decided Sunday, it was invalid. The we don't see this as being very "My interpretation could be dif­Sunday night to nullify the results to take the raw vote from Jan. 31 Koelsch/Rodarte appeal cited sec­fair." ferent than yours. We have a sys­of Friday's election and award and award victory to the ticket tion D.4.j of the Student Comprised up of three seniors, tem of checks and balances in victory to the ticket of Renner and that received the plurality of the Government Association Election the Elections Appeals board was place and the Elections Nagle. votes, said Midden. Bylaws that states "official results without one of its members Committee disagreed with _my 
The decision or the eleclion "We did discuss that there were will be confirmed "vithin 48 hours Monday night who was out of the decision and met to consider the appeals board rendered the .four tickets involved in Monday's of the closing of elections." country. appeal made by Crissie. Renner/Nagle ticket victorious. election [of Jan. 31) and it wasn't Voting ended Friday at 7 p.m. However, Elections "I support their decision." The decision is final. said curront just between the two tickets that and the tickets were informed of Commissioner Bridget Heffernan Renner appealed the decision student body presidfrnt Nancy made it to the run-off," said Gina the results by 7:30 p.m., therefore submitted Gueresso's name as a to have a third election Sunday Middr.n. Gueresso, a member of the if the results were official as of replacement and the Board of night before the 48 hour dead­
"The board decided that in an Election Appeals board Sunday at 7:30 p.m., the Renner Governance executive board line for election results to be offi­event of a tie, to revert to the "However, we don't know how appeal would be invalid. approved the appointment cial was imposed. nlection results from Monday those people would have voted if Rodarte was skeptical of the Monday night. Members of the I.Ian. 31 ]," said Middm1. they hadn't had the other options Renner appeal. election commission are "know!-see ELECTIONS/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Nothing but talk 
Even the casual reader of The Observer can see that there hasn't been a whole lot of warm and fuzzy discourse in the paper lately. Most banter has been between the "you don't belong here" folks and the "Oh my goodness. like every­one here is so conservative!" crowd. Most ofus fall somewhere in between these two camps. thank goodness. In fact. I even chose to make 

this column a bit more suit­able to atheists and certain theology graduate students by using "goodness" in place of"God." 
Despite my mushy. feel­good fence-sitting, I have to take issue with a particularly asinine comment made in a recent letter to The Observer: "The Democrats are far superior Lo the Kepublicans regarding race relations. the environment. and opposition to the School of the Americas." 
Allow me to translate for the trust fund-brats. war­
mongers and other Republicans out there: because you do not support I-feel-your-pain. take-a-hit-from-the-bung legislation that only further complicates things. you are. in effect, big meanies. Ifs a good thing so many buy into th.is logic; otherwise Democrats would have to find another way to attract the vote. 
Regarding race relations. there is little doubt to the leading contribution of liberals to the cause of civil rights in the 1 960s. But taking a closer look reveals that party lines are not r,ompletely relevant. These so-called contributions by Democrats often amount to nothing more than flawed affirmative action programs and broken promises. Racism and discrimination have never been monopolized by either party, as some will have you believe. And it does little good to crow about your party's contributions, lest someone decides to point out a few minor holes in your argument. Out of curiosity. what were the politi­cal leanings of that guy Wallace who proclaimed "Segregation now, segregation forever"? 
Environmental issues aren't likely to pick up strong support on the right either, at least not in the manner they are presented. Once again. the strongest case for ignoring Republicans' equal concern for the environment stems from the idea that not supporting ineffective legislation means not caring. We "greedy" types would like to see changes made without causing economic disaster or relying on anything Al Gore writes in his tree­petting diatribe "Earth in the Balance." This book. as many recall. lectured us about the evils of the automobile. resulting in wasting a lot of healthy trees to print half-baked horror stories. Unfortunately. it has not dawned or Mr. Gore to curb pollution (and political BS) by staying home instead of running around campaigning. 
Most issues gravitate towards one party or another. at least in the eyes of the general public. Democrats are presumably skilled in race rela­tions. education. interior decorating and dancing. Republicans are considered superior in crime prevention, taxes, skeet shooting and golf. 
These are nothing more than generalizations. and buying into them gives us a harsh dose of reality when it comes time for presidential or congressional action. 
To put it another way, saying that Democratic policies towards race relations and the environ­ment are superior to those of the Republicans is akin to saying Wilt Chamberlain's "policies" towards his 10.000 concubines was good for gen­der relations. Both policies feature plenty of sweet-talk, but in the end, everyone gets screwed. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Laura Rompf  Jenn Zatorski  
Erin Piroutek  Emmett Mallov  
Helena Rayam  Graphics  
Sports  Mandi Powell  
Kathleen O'Brien  Prodtiction  
Viewpoint  Brian Kessler  
A.J. Boyd  Lab Tech  
Job Turner  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publ,shed Monday 1hro11gh Fmfay cxccpf during n.,1m all.d. V'dCAtion periods, Tiu: Observer is ii rnen1b(:r of rhe Assodared Press. All reproduction rig-hrs .-trc n:s~rved 
Dustin Ferrell 
assistant 
Viewpoint 
editor 
• >' 

The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, February 8, 2000 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"We were joking early "The students in our that there would be programs come back 
a dead tie, but with their never thought it lives changed. " would happen." 
Michael Francis Bridget Heffernan assistant provost for elections commissioner international studies on the results of the first 
on studying abroad Saint Mary's presidential run-off election 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Columbia student murdered in dorm roorr1 
NEWYOHK 

Amid emergency meetings and messages, swarms of squad cars. and controversial news coverage, the Columbia University community struggled with grief, depression and shock over the weekend after the murder of one of its students and the death of her apparent killer, a Columbia student on academic leave. 
Columbia sophomore Kathleen Hoskot was killed in her dorm room by a stab wound to the throat on Saturday, police said; that afternoon, the only suspect in the case, Thomas Neiford. jumped in front of an oncoming subway train. 
Roskot. who grew up in Bay Shore, 
N. Y., was a midfielder ·on the women's lacrosse team. 
In a eulogy given last night at St. Paul's Chapel, Maureen Koons, described her lacrosse teammate as 
UCLA students join Gap protest 
LOS ANGELES 

About 25 people exposed their half-naked bodies Sunday in Los Angeles because they would rather "wear nothing than wear Gap." They stripped in protest of the alleged deforestation done by the Fisher Family, one of the Gap's largest investors, as well as the alleged sweatshop labor practices used by the company. "We're against all kinds of slave labor, and Gap kind of represents that," said Mark Flowers, a first-year student at UCLA. But Alan Marks, a spokesman for Gap; Inc. said the clothing company does not privately own any manufacturing plants and has strict measures to make sure child labor or sweatshop practices do not occur. He said there are 60 employees who monitor such factories world-wide. If factories are found to be in violation of the Gap's policies, they may be reprimanded depending on the seriousness of the violation or the Gap may take their business elsewhere. "We're con­stantly monitoring factories to make sure they follow all our guidelines," Marks said. "We're in the facto­ries on a constant basis." 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high lem atures 
,,,r'-'---­
,.,,.. 

Tuesday Thursqay 
4,9,~96.#Q i) ~ u 
Showers T-5/orms RJin Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Pr,ss Graph~Net 




COLUMBIA 
an outspoken leader dedicated to her sport and to her team. 
Neiford wrestled for Columbia's varsity team before being asked to leave the College for academic rea­sons in the fall of 1997. according to Dean of Student Affairs Chris Colombo. 
Neiford 's friends describe him as an artist and musician who was pri­marily introverted and generally pas­sive. 

Student sues UVA over honor code 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
The latest and heftiest lawsuit against the University of Virginia and the Honor Committee has brought the issues of due process, student self-governance and racial bias in the University's renowned student-run honor system into the public light. Former student Ayola Greene. a 1992 graduate of the Architecture School, filed a lawsuit Jan. 1 seeking $10.5 million from the University and the Honor Committee for racial discrimination and for violating her constitu­tional due process rights in a trial that took place nearly seven years ago -a trial that resulted in the revocation of her undergraduate degree. Greene had been charged with writing a series of bad checks total­ing $150 from a closed New York City-based bank account while she was a student at the University. The Honor Committee defined this as lying and cheating and therefore adequate grounds for taking away her degree. In 1995, the University and the Honor Committee formally rescinded Greene's degree, a deci­sion which Greene and her attorney asked to be repealed, but to no avail. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 8. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Prn,ura: 

@ © . ~ CI] IT3 ~ ~ 0 -~~ *•
High Low Shower• Asln T·atorm• Flurrlea Sno\rf Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Vld A680C/a/6d Pre$$  
Atlanta  59  38  Las Vegas  
Baltimore  36  20  Memphis  
Boston  30  21  Milwaukee  
Chicago  34  26  New York  
Cincinnati  35  28  Philadelphia  

"I thought being gay was about sex. It wasn't until I left here that I realized it was about culture." 
Vivian Ostroski homosexual Saint Mary's alumna 
According to the police, Roskot's coach and teammates were con­cerned when she did not show up to her early morning practice. 
Roskot's residence advisor entered Hoskot's room with a security guard at approximately 2:05 p.m. 
She was pronounced dead on the scene by the police. who found the murder weapon in the adjoining bathroom. 
Observers told the police that Neiford leaped in front of an oncom­ing train at a New York City subway station at approximately 3:10 p.m. on Saturday. The police added that Neiford had Roskot's wallet at the time of his death. 
Friends of both Neiford and Roskot said that the two had been dating since the middle of last semester and often spent time together, although they may have split in recent months. 
"! want to do mission work later on in l(fe and I was scared I wouldn't be able to do it. So I went to test myself" 
Ryan Carlson summer service projed participant 

Compiled from U-Wire reports 
70  45  Portland  52  40  
58  38  Sacramento  62  46  
34  26  SI. Louis  48  38  
32  28  Tamp•  68  48  
45  20  Washington DC 39  29  

' 
~-------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, February 8, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Campus Life Council discusses 24-hour space discrepancies 
By HELENA RAYA.1\1 
News Writer 
Campus Lifo Council planned to fine­turn• a resoh,tion on 24-hour space in residence halls during l\fonday's meet­ing. 
"There's a hig difference between male and female dorms," said Student Union Board manager Hoss Kerr. 
Submitted bv the CLC Committee on Cender Issues". the "nesolution of the Definition of 24-Hour Space l{egarding Social Space in Hesidcncc Ilalls" is the most recent version of a resolution originally drafted by the Gender Hclations Committee of Student Senate last semester. 
"We've made it stronger," said Kerr. 
T!H: resolution addresses varying implPmentation of 24-hour space among dorms. The common problem involves hall monitors who ask male guests to leu,y.c al 6:30 a.m. when the night shift cmds. thereby reducing the time lhal spacp, is available to male studcnts. 
While sturlent members of CU: dis­cussed different incid<mts when they have encountcrnd this problem, rnc­lors also oITere<l opinious. 
Pasquerilla East Sister rector Mary Ann Mueninghoff was reluctant to sup­port the resolution in its current form becausf' in PE she has not encountered problems with monitors; students can use social space 24 hours a day. 
St. Edward's rector Father Dave Scheidler said he has heard that some hall monitors tell students to keep both feet on the tloor and deny access to 24­hour space lmcause they were in paja­mas. Scheidler callml these rules "ridicu-lous" and "arr.haic," 

Coalition Council representative Michael Fierro suggested hall monitors learn rules aboul 24-hour space when they receive training. 
"We can certainly instruct monitors on this," said William Kirk, assistant vice 
tMI
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Junior Business Majors 
Internships available to work in 

ACCION Offices 

Accion is a micro-lending organization assisting people with no credit history to obtain loans to improve build their businesses. 
• 
10 -12 week program during the summer, 

• 
$2,500.00 tuition scholarship for 12 weeks 

• 
with housing and food stipend 


• 
3 academic credits -(elective) Theo 360 (Business Approach to Social Change) 


Available m 6 cities: Albuquerque, Chicago, El Paso, New York City, San Antonio, San Diego 
•• Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns & COBA Undergraduate office :# du.L February 18th 
Interviews in March at the Center for Social Concerns with a representative from ACCION 
Information Session February gt h Room 121, COBA 5:00 PM 
president of Residence Life. 
Although tho major complaint with 24­hour space is about hall monitors, repre­sentatives some dorms, such as Badin and Sorin, reported residents feel their space is inadequate. Obtaining a large area of 24-hour space in these dorms would like­ly mean some renovation. 

Knott Hall rector Brother Jerome Meyer mentioned the need for ade­quate social space in his report to the CLC, "Review of the Colloquy 2000," on student life. The report addr<1ssed major CLC concerns like social space, housing concerns for married students and the role of rectors, Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns [CSC) in student life. 
CLC also discussed the CSC's prob­lems with controlling student groups' transportation. CSC must keep track of van drivers and destinations for any group requesting use of University 
vans. 

"It's a scheduling problem for them,' said Meyer. "That transportation issue is a recurring nightmare," Kirk added. 
Acr.ording to Kirk, thi.s problem might continue because it has not been a high priority. 
"It's one of the thing we've learned to deal •,vith, but I think it's something we definitely need to look at," said studnnt body president Micah Murphy. 
In other CLC news: 
•Kerr, SUB chair, reminded CLC members that the Office of Student Affairs helped make student movies in DeBartolo 101 possible. However, the recent theft of the UeBartolo picture is an action that reflects poorly on the students and SUB, said Kerr. 
"l want student to understand that !viewing movies in DeBartoloJ is a privi­lege," said Kerr. "I don't want to see it ruined." 
•Fisher hall senator Phil Dittmar sug­gested a survey about the reasons stu­dents move off campus. 


Alum's lecture focuses on unfairly imposed death penalty 
By MICHAEL De La ROSA News Writer 
The death penalty is imposed in a biased and unfair fashion, said lawyer Greg Wiercioch in a Monday lecture discussing the planned federal execution of Juan Raul Garza, the first since 1963. 
Wiercioch, an '86 Notre Dame alumnus, is a member of the nonprofit Texas Defender Sen':ice, which provides post-con­viction representation to people sentenced to death. 
Wiercioch represents Garza, a Mexican­American sentenced to death in 1993 under the federal drug kingpin statute. Garza was convicted of three murders that tied into a marijuana smuggling and distri­bution ring based in Brownsville, Texas. 
Wiercioch said the death penalty is unwarranted in this case. Garza was treat­ed unfairly at the sentencing phase of the trial, Wiercioch said. 

During the trial, no physical evidence was given to link Garza to the murders; the verdict was based on testimony of three accomplices who received reduced sen­tences in exchange for testifying, explained Wiercioch. The government also intro­duced evidence that Garza had committed four additional murders in Mexico, although he was not convicted. 
Wiercioch noted bias in capital punish­ment cases, especially those involving minorities. He pointed out that of 133 defendants authorized for death penalty from 1988-98, 76 percent were members of racial minorities. 
There have also been inconsistencies in what crime merits a death penalty, Wiercioch said. He asked attendees to white letters to President Clinton asking for executive clemency in the Garza case. 

New SAB coordinator named 
of the Student Activities 
By NICOLE HADDAD Board at Saint Mary's 
News Writer has been named SAB 
coordinator. 

Allison Webb, current Webb exhibits "a real marketing chairwoman understanding through her experiences," 

said Janet Horvath, current SAB coordi­nator. "She has done an excellent job and has many new ideas for upcoming events."As the new SAB coordinator, Webb will be over­seeing the activities of each chair­woman. Her responsibilities will include facilitating events. signing con­tracts and providing rnsourccs for the six committees under SAB's juris­

Vl$ll U$ 1l www.d11lon1bnch1e,o1l.co11 or www.discounlbrnk.co111 

diction. 
Webb's new ideas mainly focus on the organization of SAB. "Cutting down on com­mittees, from four posi­tions to two positions, will allow each to have a larger budget, in turn allowing us to have larg­er events,'' Webb said. 
"Jn keeping up with traditional events such as Twilight Tailgate, Jamaica Shaka, bands and the drive-in, we hope to put our funding towards making them bigger, as well as includ­ing new events," said Webb. 
SAB now has openings for nine positions such as chairwomen. Applications will be available Feb. 14 and are due Feb. 25. 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, February 8, 2000 



Wadsworth 
continued from page 1 
Fighting frish football team. 
Bul perhaps the biggest com­plaints r,ame when Notre Dame's commitment to cthic:ll standards was questioned. The University received probation from the NCAA for violations in the Dunbar case. and was found guilty of age discrimination in the firing of former assistant football coach Joe Moore. 
"Thcrf' is no denying that. problt>ms often lead Lo accom­plishm,~nts being overlooked. and that certainly has bcon true with respect tu M i k e Wadsv.orth, 

All-American
whose contri· "He's done afinejob. Too 

status since
butions to 
much has been made of 

Wadsworth
Notre Dame 

one or two small incidents, became ath­
have been 

letic director.
substantial." but under his.fil'e years, 

Notre Dame
I\Ialloy said. 
the athletic department 

shared the
"As I said in 

has flourished." distinction
December, 

with Stanford
Mike autl 

of being tlrn
Father 

Joe Piane 

only universi­
Beauchamp 
head track and field coach 

ties to rank in
and I all are committed to doing every­thing we can tu uphold Notre Dame's high standards for the conduct of athlelics." 
Wadsworth, a former Notre Dame football player. laid out a five-year plan for Irish athletics upon taking the position of ath­letic director. 
During Wadsworth's tenure, Notre Dame made its debut in the Big East conference. Notre Dame has won the Big East com­missioner's trophy for men's athletics every year since joining the league, as well as the women's trophy each of the past three years.

Vv adsworth helped strengthen women's athletics at Notre Dame, adding lacrosse and crew to the list of varsity sports. Since Wadsworth took over at athletic director. the women's soccer and women's basketball teams advanced to the final four. with th-e soccer team qualifying fur the f"inals twice. The Univf)rsity also increased the number uf scholarships for women's sports by 22. 
Nolrc Dame contimwd its com­mitment to athletics and acade­
mics, with 35 
athletes earn­
ing Academic 
the top 20 of 
the U.S. News & World lleport survey of educa­tional excellence and averag-e at least a top 20 finish in the Sears Directors' Cup standings for all­sports accomplishments. 
No names have been released as possible Wadsworth replace­ments. 
"I will soon appoint and chair a committee to conduct a search for a new athletic director, who will report to me," Malloy said. 


Elections 
continued from page 1 
"I was informed two hours before the deadline that the decision to hold a third elec­tion Friday was not made by the appropriate committee according to the election bylaws," said Honner. "l wasn't socking a victory. I was morn concernr.d with uphold­ing the rights of student gov­ernment. 
"All I wanted was for the Elnction Conunitt,10 to decido if it was right to have a third eltwtion and if that was their decision. then so be it. But I wanted to know. This wasn't the kind of' victory we had hoped for. though." 
Renner said the election Friday was also not valid because constitution bylaws state that a separate voting place l"or off-campus students must be provided and this was not done. 
The two tickets met Monday morning to discuss options, after which Koelsch and Hodarte liled their appeal. 
At the meeting, Honner said she suggested appointing Koelsch to be her vice presi­dent since her running mate, Nagle was rPady to step down because she folt it would be in the best interest of the student body. Nagle did not file the appeal with Rrmner. 
However. the KoelscMlodarte ticket did not want to melt the two tickets into one. 
"We decided that if we take office, we are taking office 

together or not at all." said 
Rodarte. "We chose to run 
with each other because we 
feel we complemf'nt each 
other well. We respect 
Crissie's decision and she 
respected ours." 

With combining the two tick­
ets no longer an option. 
Koelsch/Rodarte filed their 
appeal Monday. 

After learning of the~ Election 
Appeals board's decision on 
Tuesday morning, Hodarte 
exprPSSPd disbeliBf'. 

"Emily and I arc pretty 
much shocked," said Hodart1:. 
"We ncwir ever would have 
thought this would ho the final 
decision. We are upset that 20 
percent of the Saint Mary's 
student body was discounted 
by using Monday's votci. 
"We can't understand why 
Monday's voting tally [from 
Jan. :-n] was usHd and we 
don't think it is a fair repre­
sentation of the wishes of the 
Saint Mary's student body and 
what they wanted for student 
government." 

Gueresso disagreed that the 
voice of the student body 
wasn't heard in the board's 
decision. 

"I would ask those people 
that think their voices weren't 
heard why wasn't the voice of' 
the student body heard in 
Monday's election [of Jan. · 31]?" she said. 
Renner said she believes the 
student body's voice was not 
ignored throughout the elec­
tion process. 

"I believe the student body's 
voice was heard," said Renner. 
"There were obviously two 
strong tickets and the commit­
tee had to weight what they thought was the bP.st option. It's unfortunate that them wasn't anything in the bylaws about what to do in case of a tie but it was up to the corn­mittc11 to make the decision if it wasn't in the bylaws." 
For Koelsch, the situation is disappointing. 
'Tm very disappointed with how this was handled," said Koelsch. "Neither Rachele or I were treated with respect. We weren't ,wtm informtid that the appeals board was meeting tonight. I ean't sec how the student body will be happy with this decision because as far as we are concerned. the interests of the student body are not represented hy tonight's decision." 
Midden disagreed with the assessment. 
"In light of a vt~ry difficult sitnation, I t.hink student gov­ernment handled the situation with gracfl and maturity," she said. "I think they did a plrn­nomcnal job and made well­informed decisions." 
Although Nagle was not available for comment. Renner said early Tuesday morning that Nagle will serve as vice president. 
"Our biggest concern is to do what is in the best interest of the student body," said Renner. 
Rodarie and Koelsch are investigating their options. 
"We don't know ifwe can do anything because the board's decision is final," said Rodarte. "We wish Crissie luck next year. Our fate has been com­pletely changed in the past 24 hours and we don't know what our options are." 
For the Summer P%oduction. 0£ WU)iam Shakespeare's



,m,\\10ll~ AlJDJTirJNS
~
~uiµ . 
. 



, l '. 
1f: ' ;;;;;,t
.'! 
e 
' ~ 1
' . 
M.,ci,;-'; ,.,,.,_. •!:4 

Taught in the Washington Hall Theater, this course is based on the premise that Shakespeare's plays are best understood as being both Literary texts and Theatrical scripts. 
The course starts .June J 9th and ends August 6th 
Students will be admitted by audition only. and will be granted full ,t,J ,,. 
tuition Scholarships for the 6 credit hour course. Train~ and gain practical theatrical experience by working and performing alongside established professional actors, directors, and a professional production staff. 

OliliJDIM{lffiDIJDWIDOJ3B 
~IJU)).tBJlbfb!JmgJl)l}WflDWJDflllil

-~llDwmm 
~fhib.OOlll1JJ!Jml1dlDrJW1lDWDlluil 



-Summer Shakespeare at Notre Dame ­
***PLEASE PREPARE 2 SHORT PIECES OF SHAKESPEARE 
(1 COMIC, 1 DRAMATIC) 
AUDffiON TIME 4 MINUTES TOTAL FOR MORE INFO. CONTACT PROF. PAUL RATHBURN (1·5069) 
:a::.or::....... 



orld 



February 8, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER wnrn SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Former officers criticize Venezuelan president 
CARACAS. Venezuela 

Three former oflicers who helped President llugo Chavez stage his famous 1992 coup attempt are lashing out at the president and his innn cirde. threatfming to carve a division in Venezuela's leftist governing coalition. The ex­coup leaders last week used the eighth anniver­sary of their revolt. to publidy warn Chavez that his year-old government may be betraying tho rrwolutionary goals that prompted them to take up arms. Thf')I ofl~rPd details. But on Monday. n1tirecl U. Col. Francisco Arias Cardenas, con­sidernd the intellectual author ol' the 1992 coup, said Clrnv(~z·s Fifth Hppublir. Movement politi!:al party is in crisis. 
Triple-murder could warrant federal death penalty 
WASHINGTON 

Attor1wy General Janet Reno opened the door Monday for the first f'ederal death penal­ly conviction in the nation's capital in a noto­rious triplr-murdPr case. Reno agreed to allow federal prosecutors to seek the death penalty in their case against Carl Derek Cooper. 30. lie faces murder and racketeering charges in the 1997 killing or three Starbucks coff'Pe shop employees that police said fol­lowr,d a botched robberv. There has not been an execution in thP Dist~·ict of Columbia since 1957. The city council outlawed capital pun­ishment for local convictions in 1981. But execution is possible under l'Pderal charges. In only two other r.ases has the federal govern­ment sought the death penalty in the district. Both ended with guilty pleas. 
U.S. hopes to reduce Russian nuclear proliferation with deal 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinlon administration has agrePd to give Hussia an additional $100 million to safeguard nuclear materials and conduct research in rPturn for Hussia's promise to stop making plu­tonium from civilian reactor fuel. Arms control advocates praised the agreement as a signifi­cant stt>p toward reducing the thrnat of' nuclear proliferation and the first attempt to deal with the huge volume of used fuel, and tons of weapons-grade plutonium, from Russia's civil­ian reactors. Some details of the agreement in principle remain to be worked out, and some of the money for nuclear researr:h is linked to Russia's ending its transfers of nuclear technol­ogy to Iran, U.S. otTicials said. Energy Secretary Bill Richardson called the tentative agreement "a very exciting new initiative" that will reduce the amount of Russian plutonium exposed to potential thdl or diversion. 

S&P 500: Composite 1424.24 
Volume:


10,905.79 
1,130,632,660
-0.13 

VOLUME LEADERS 

i;;QMfAl:iI 1'.I:i;;lil lo ,tl,6,&,;1 5 CliUlGI l':UCi 
pAQlNQ Ni!'l"WOIU<  PACE  . 67 .l6  . L,Oi2  l. 50  
HETROCAL1. INC  MCLL  . 11.83  +1.3750  13.00  
Mc1 lffl'Rl'tOCOX IH  W100M  •9 .32  . J.6875  U.00  
LOCH HAUIS INC  '""'"  +&6.33  +1.9!'.100  4.99  
TCSI  CORPOMTIO  'l'CSI  +124 ,IJO  +3.8150  7.00  
t""ISXO SYS'l"~MS  C8CO  +1 .16  t-4.06c:;o  115-.19  
OMCLS CORP  OIICL  +-l .66  +.2.1275  !:i9'. 94  
IN'tBL CORP DBLL C'OMP~  INTC DP!LL  +l .05 -2 .:29  . l.ltOO -{).9900  107 .91, )7. ,:2  
JIICltOSQPT CQRl'  M8P1'  +O, 05  +Q .OS75  lDG.6.2  

CROATIA 


Associated Press 
ZAGREB 
A candidate who pledged to lead Croatia away from its authoritari­an past won the country's presidential election Monday. his opponent said, conceding the race hours before the first results were to be announced. 
Stipe Mesic is the victor in the runoff election to succeed the late Franjo Tudjman. former Communist dissident Drazen Budisa acknowl­edged shortly after polls closed. Mesic is a former member of Yugoslavia's collective presidenr.y. 
"I think the moment has come for me to congratu­

late Mr. Mesic on his vic­tory and to wish him a lot of success in carrying out the presidential duties," Budisa said after early, unofficial results available to both parties showed Mesic with a 10 percent lead. 
The two candidates dif­fered only slightly in the policies they supported during the campaign. leaving voters with a choice based largely on personality and presenta­tion. 
Voting took place in more than 7,000 polling stations in the country and 48 in embassies abroad. The first prelimi­nary results were expect­ed early Tuesday. 
The vote was the third nationwide election in just over a month. In water­shed parliamentary elec­tions on Jan. 3, Croats ousted Tudjman's nation­alists in favor of a left­leaning coalition support­ing democratic reform and integration into the European mainstream. 
Voters returned to the polls Jan. 24 for presiden­tial elections that widened the break with Tudjman's corruption-ridden legacy. Mesic. 65, and Budisa. 51. emerged victorious out of a nine-contender field. but neither mustered an absolute majority, forcing a runoff. 
The new president will have key influence in national security matters and in shaping foreign 
policy. But he will face a reduction of executive powers. with a new par­liament committed to restoring its role as the central decision-making body. 
Legal analysts say Tudjman, who led the country to independence in 1991 and ruled until his death on Dec. 10, abused his powers. 
Croats exhausted by Tudjman's authoritarian rule and imperial styles apparently looked for a personality completely opposite to his. Mesic fit that role -projecting an easy-going attitude, offer­ing quick solutions to problems and speaking in terms ordinary Croats could understand. 

Train crash in Germany injures 149 
Associated Pres< 
BRUEI-IL. Germany 
Rescue workers todav began untangling train car·s from a weekend cra8h south of Cologne that killed at least eight people and injured 149 others. 
The overnight t'.Xpress carrying 300 people from the Outch city of Amsterdam to Basel. Switzerland, derailed earlv Sunday. Authorities say it was going 76 mph in a 25 mph zone when it hit a switch and jumped off the tracks. 
The last of the bodies of the eight con firmed dead. including seven men and a woman, were removed from the wreckage today. said Cologne police spokesman Wolfgang Beus. He said the woman was identified as a German. but he had no information about the other victims. 

Although the number of confirmed dead was revised downward from nine, "it is possible we will still find more bodies," said another Cologne police spokesman. foergen Goebel. 
Police said the victims• severe injuries made identi­fication difficult. 
Goebel said the workers' first task today was to cut apart the two most severely damaged cars from the nine-car train. 
The number of known injured was listed today at 149, 89 of them seriously. 
The head of Germany"s Deutsche Bahn train svstem said today that mech~nical defect-; played no role in the crash. He wouldn't rule out human error as the cause. 
Hartmut Mehdorn told ARD television that all engi­neers were well-trained and had their schedules stag­gered so they could get suf­ficient sleep for the job. 
The head of the German rail union, Norbert Hansen, called on the government to set standard criteria for training engineers. 
The issue of train safety is particularly sensitive after the June 1998 derailment of a high-speed train near Eschede that killed 101 peo­ple -Germany's deadliest train accident ever. In a report released last month. the cause of that crash was determined to be a broken wheel. 
The train in Sunday's derailment had left Amsterdam at 8 p.m. Saturday and barely pulled out of Cologne heading south when the accident occurred. 
'' 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, February 8, 2000 
Negotiatoins continue over hijacked plane 
A•sociated Press 
STANSTED, England 

Authorities held "fairly calm and businesslike" negotiations over long hours Monday with apparent Afghan dissidents holding a planeload of at least 150 people hostage at an airport outside London. 
Officials did not disclose what political demands, if any, the hijackers put forth. But a diplo­mat familiar with earlier negoti­ations when the airliner landed in Moscow said those holding the plane sought to free a pris­oner held in thC' Afghan city of Kandahar. 
Afghan 
media spec­
"Negotiations remain our ence in 

ulated the 
Moscow, one
favorite option. l will say it

hijackers 
of 10 pas­

were dissi­could be a very protracted 
sengers set dents who technique. It could go on free there,
sought the Mohammad
for days"

release of 
Bashir

Ismail Khan, Mahal, said 
a former 
Joe Edwards 
there were

regional gov­
assistant chief constable eight hijack­

ernor who has been held since 1997 by Afghanistan's ruling Taliban movement. Khan is a member of Afghanistan's oppo· sition alliance, which still rules roughly 10 percent of the war­shattered country. 
Once in Britain, the hijackers requested only food, water, unspecified medical supplies and that the lavatories on the Afghan state-run Ariana Airlines plane be emptied, said John Broughton, assistant chief constable ofthe Essex Police. He characterized the negotiations, conducted in English, as ..fairly calm and businesslike" and said authorities were patiently work­ing toward a peaceful solution. 
"Negotiations remain our favorite option," said Joe Edwards, another assistant chief constable. "I will say it could be a very protracted tech­nique. It could go on for days." 
He said that eight captives released Monday at Stansted, Britain's designated airport for handling h\jackings, "tell us they were very well-treated while they were onboard." 
Earlier 
Mondav at a 
news c~nfer­
ers, and 
t h e y appeared to be Afghani because of their language and clothes. 
"They were all young ­around 25-30 years old, dressed in traditional Afghan costume ­and to begin with they were threatening," he said in Pashtu, the principal language of Afghanistan. "But slowly, their aggression subsided and they treated us quite well. No one was beaten or insulted. Relations were good." 

Small planes crash in L.A., four dead 
Associated Preos 

LOS ANGELES 
Two small planes collided over Los Angeles Monday, one crashing in flames on a golf course and the other falling into trees near a freeway. All four people aboard were killed. 
No one on the ground was hurt. 
Two men were killed in the plane that plunged through powHr Iinos and landed on thH golf' course, and a couple believed to be in their 60s died in the other plane, which fell into trees near busy Interstate 5, said Fire Department spokesman Bob Collis. 
Golfers on the sixth fairway at Cascades Golf Club scattered as burning debris fell out of the sky over the San Fernando Valley. 
One group of golfers was talking about last week's Alaska Airlines crash off the Southern California coast when the planes collided over­head about 9:50 a.m. 
"We heard a loud popping sort of sound," said Jeff Childers, fiO. "It immediately exploded on the lines, then fell to the ground and burned intensely. You could smell the seat materials and fuel burning." 
The single-engine Bellanca Citabria, was patrolling oil pipelines between Bakersfield and Los Angeles when it collided with the couple's Questair experimental plane, said George Petterson, investigator for the National Transportation Safety Board. 
The Citabria is a high-wing plane, and the Questair a low-wing aircraft. Petterson said it is possible that the combination made it difficult for the pilots to see each other. 
"A wing does block your view, and it is a seen­and-be-seen concept of flight," Petterson said. 
NTSB investigators were trying to determine altitude information about the planes and recov­er a flight recorder, Petterson said. 
Both planes contacted Van Nuys Airport just before they collided about nine miles north of the airport, Petterson said. The Questair pilot told controllers the plane was going to land there, but it had not yet been given clearance at the time of the crash, he said. 
·111 

Australian girl escapes crocodile 
Associated Press 

DARWIN, 
A young girl escaped from the jaws of an 8-l'oot croco­dile when her little brother distracted the beast by grab­bing its tail, their father said Tuesday. 
Roy Harrington said his daughter Martina, 8, and son Paul, 5, were hunting for 
turtles on Saturday in a creek near in Australia's Northern Territory, when the animal seized her and began dragging her into the water. 
"I could see it pulling her down," Harrington told reporters. "Paul grabbed the tail of the croc and he threw his head up -that gave Martina a chance to get her feet out of his mouth." 
Harrington said he then attacked and killed the croc­odile with an ax. 
Martina was treated at a clinic for bite wounds and released, he said. 
Saltwater crocodiles live in waterways throughout Australia's tropical north. 
The reptiles have been protected in Australia since the early 1970s and their numbers have burgeoned. 

Domino's Pizza 
Large 
One 
Topping Pizza 


Every Tuesday 

Call todav and 11am-2am sun-Thurs
211-0300
mention this atilt 11am-3am Fri-Sat 
------------------.---------------------------------------~-----~--------..----~--­
. 
Tuesday, February 8, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Bush parents back on campaign trail 
ISRAEL 

Air strikes launched against Lebanon 
roared over the city for about In 1985, Israel established a 
Associated Press 

half an hour. A huge ball of buffer zone in south Lebanon to orange flame and clouds of protect nearby northern Israeli 
. Warplanes strike smoke rose from the Beirut sta­towns from guerrilla attacks. tion. But fslamic Hezbollah guerrillas
to retaliate deaths of 
The same station was hit twice have been fighting to drive the
four soldiers before -once in June, when Israelis out ever since, and Israel previously punished Barak said last July 7 that Israel Lebanon by targeting power sta­would withdraw within a year.
REIHUT, Lebanon Israeli warplanes struck a tions, and once in 1996. Barak had hoped a pullout guerrilla stronghold and power Tho impacts blew out windows would be through an agreement 
stations across Lebanon early and doors of apartments in with Syria, the main power bro­Tuesday, causing widespread Baalbek as jets roared. over the ker in Lebanon. Hut Israeli­Shiite Muslim-populated city, Syrian peace talks broke down
blackouts in apparent retaliation 
also home to world-famous last month. 
for He1.bollah attacks that killed 
Roman ruins. Soon after the sec­"There is no point in waiting
four Israeli soldiers. The strike came after a week ond sortie, ground gunners until July, unless someone 
of' bloody attacks by the Muslim opened up with anti-aircran tire thinks that by then we can on the raiding j1>.ts. achieve an agreement [with
guerrillas and graphic footage of 
T h e Syria]." said
wounded Israelis on the evening 
Israeli Amnon Lipkin­
nows in Israel. "It's easy to callfor a 
a r rn y Sh ah a k,The bloodshed prompted talk 
unilateral withdraw! when 
said the Barak's
that Israel will expedite a planned withdrawal from attacks you don't consider what will tourism minis­Lebanon, I.Jut it also created on three happen the next day among ter and one of 
power his lead Syria
fears of i.ncreased violence near 
the northern border 
plants in
the Israel-Lebanon border. negotiators. Sirens ordered residents into Lebanon communities." Barak's 
were in Police
shelters in Israeli border towns 
response Minister,Monday, and heavily armed 
Silvan Shalom 
troops reported to their com­to "the Shlumo Ben­
severe Likud lawmaker
manders at border crossings. Ami, said 
escala-Israelis should
Jets began concentrated attacks in Haalbek in eastern 
tion in not rule out an the activities of Hczbollah and
Lebanon, unleashing several air­earlier withdrawal. to-surface missiles and plunging other organizations in south Some warned that a unilateral 
Lebanon." withdrawal would be counter­
the city immediately in dark­ness, witnesses said. Planes also "Those who have harmed us, productive, bringing the hit a power station in the moun­will be harmed," Barak said Hezbollah within firing range of Monday.
tains east of the northern port the Israeli towns arrayed along 
But Israeli officials' attention the border.
city of Tripoli, and followed it 
with a strike on the Jamhour also turned to the longer-term "It's easy to call for a unilater­substation on a hill overlooking impact of the violence. Ministers al withdrawal when you don't in Barak's Cabinet said Monday consider what will happen the
Beirut. There was no word on 
it was becoming clear that a next day among the northern
casualties. Beirut, the Lebanese capital, withdrawal from Lebanon with­border communities," said oppo­out Syria's agreement was like­sition Likud lawmaker Silvan
was plunged into darkness soon 
ly. Shalom.
after the raid as Israeli jets 
Associated Press 
WASHlNCTON 

George W. Hush·s parents are hitting the trail again this week on his behalf despite rriticism over whether they a r o appropri­atf! cam­paign sur­rogates. 
Former President Bush will make a two-day swing to Michigan, while former first lady Barbara Bush was spending Monday and Tuesday in South Carolina before heading to Virginia. 
G1)nrg(~ W.. the Texas gover· nor und Republican presiden· tial fronl-rumH,r, made his first joint campaign appcar­anc1! with his parents talize on his family name. The charge was fueled, in part, hy the elder Bush's boast in New Hampshire that, "This boy, this son of ours, is not going to let you down." 

Asked about his parents after losing last week, the governor said: "If people expect me to distance myself from my family, they got the wrong candidate." 
Hush's fath1>.r was appear­ing in Sterling Heights, Mich., on Tuesday. and in Livonia, Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids on Wednesday. The state holds its COP primary ¥ob. 22. 
Mrs. Bush spent Monday in Columbia antl Woodruff, S.C., and was appearing Tuesday in Anderson and Rock Hill, 
S.C. She travels to Virginia on Wednesday for stops in Charlottesville, Vienna aud Glen Allen. South Carolina holds its GOP primary Feb. 19, followed by Virginia's on 
Feb. 29. In recent 

in l\ew weeks,
"If people expect me to

!lampshim Bush's par­on Jan. 29. distance myse!jfrom my 
ents have Three days family. they got the gone into a 
lat~r. he primary
wrong candidate." 

lost the state to lay
statp's GOP 
the ground­presidPn­George W. Bush work for tial prima­
presidential candidate their son or 

ry to Sen. 
have visited J. o h n 

after he left McCain of to campaignArizona. elsewhere. The governor is 
The decisive defeated asked about his parents wher­
prompted some criticism on 
ever he travels, and frequent-

editorial and op-ed pages that 1y is given copies of their Bush had been trying to capi­
books or photos to autograph. 


End of the ~ffair -Abortion And Middle America·· Presented by Clarke Forsythe President,. Americans United for Life,. the oldest national prolife public interest lavv firm. \,Vednesday~ February 9th 7pm Notre Dame Lavv School Courtroom Sponsored by Notre Dame La\N School Right to Life. A reception \Ni 11 fol lo\N the lecture.  


-

. ..
' 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 8, 2000 
ENGLAND 
Police negotiate supply delivery with hijackers 

Associated Press 
STANSTED, England 

Police and hijackers were arranging food and medicine today for 165 hostages aboard an Afghan airliner at Stansted airport outside London after the plane was forced on a dra­matic journey across Central Asia and Europe. 
Negotiations were under way with the hijackers of the Ariana Airlines Goeing 727, which touched down just after 2 a.m. and came to rest at an isolated spot about half a mile from the airport's main termi­nal. 
The hijackers first asked for tea bags, soft drinks and a gen­erator to run the airplane's air-conditioning, said Essex Police Deputy Chiof Constable Charles Clark. They had 
rPleased 22 hostages in return for supplies during earlier stops they had made on their journey, but had not agrned to release any hostages in London, he said. 
As dawn broke. hostage negotiators were discussing with the hijackers the provision of food and medicine to the plane. Police said one of the passengers has a kidney illness that requires special treat­ment. 
"At the moment, we are dis­cussing with the people on board exactly how the medica­tion should be delivered," said 
I 
(· John Broughton, Essex police 
I assistant chief constable. He said the supplies requested earlier were being delivered to the plane and that the doors had been opened to allow fresh air to circulate. Broughton said there were 122 men, 20 women, and 23 children on board the plane, and an Essex police depart­ment spokeswoman said the hijackers were not included among them. Authorities were not saying how many hijackers were on the plane. Negotiations seemed to be going well, Broughton said, but he could not confirm the num­ber or identity of the captors, nor the nationalities of the pas­sengers. "At this stage we are in dis­cussions with them regarding the welfare of those people on board," he said. Clark said that in general, Britain does not allow hijack­ers diverted to British airports to take off again. "But, of 
course, that's very much a...,....---=---,--..~1!1111!1.;;::=::i 
matter for negotiation," he 4,,;::---=-----•~--.::=~, 
said. 
The hijackers, seized the air­craft Sunday morning en route from Kabul to the northern Afghan city of Mazar-e-Sharif. At each of the three stops the plane made before landing in London, the hijackers released some hostages and demanded fuel, food and cleaning of the · lavatories. 
The plane stopped first in Uzbekistan's capital. Tashkent, where 10 passengers were allowed to get off. 
It then went to the Kazakstan city of Aktyubinsk, where three more hostages were released. 
After that, the plane landed in Moscow, and the hijackers releasf'd nine more passengers before the aircraft took off again. 
It was unclear who the hijackers were or what they wanted. 
One of the hostage negotia­tors in Moscow. an Afghan who declined to give his name, said the hijackers were seeking the release of a prisoner from the 
Afghan media earlier had specu­lated that the hijackers wanted thfi release of opposition figure Ismail Khan, a for­mer regional gov­ernor who has been held since 1997 by Af­ghanistan's ruling Taliban move­menl. He report­edly is being held in Kandahar. 
An Afghan oppo­sition spokesman, identified only as Abdullah, denied that the Afghan opposition was responsible for the hijacking. saying. "We condemn any act of terrorism." 
"Whomever is behind this act shall realize that their initiative amounts to an act of terrorism and blemishes the name of Af­ghanistan and dis­honors the Afghan people," said a statement issued 
by Afghanistan's opposition alliance, which rules roughly 10 percent of the war shattered country. 
In Islamabad, Pakistan, the Taliban, who rule the rest of Afghanistan but are not recog­nized by the British govern­ment, vowed to neither negoti­ate nor cede to the demands of the hijackers. 
"Terrorism is strongly con­demned by us and we will never negotiate with the hijackers and we will never accept their demands," Sayed 

Mohammed II aqqani, the r.=======================================::;i 
Taliban's ambassador to Pakistan, told a news confer­ence in the Pakistani capital. 
Reading from a statement issued by the Taliban's supreme leader Mullah Mohammed Omar, Haqqani accused Afghanistan's former defense minister and leader of an anti-Taliban alliance, Ahmed Shah Massood, of mas­terminding the hijacking drama that began on Sunday. 
However Haqqani said he did not know what evidence Omar had to link Massood to the 

Afghan hijacking route 
Authorities at Stansted Airport, outside London, are negotiating with the hijackers of an Afghan Ariana Airlines jet that was taken over in Kabul, Afghanistan, on Sunday and forced to make stops in Central Asia, Russia and England. 

RUSSIA 

,·-, ,.. Moscow El 2 : 1 O p. m. Arrives at <'BELARUS _.,,, 0, Moscow; is refueled and nine / .,. ~~ ... ""' , hostages are released. 
r-.,,.... ,.,, '{'-_) ' ~·· ... ...-·•\ 
( _,___ ..-Y . \ / ·--.. ---' \rt --.,. ' ,lls:-5b''ci.~ Arrives at Aktyubim¾,,for _/ tteiy'.· Aktyublnsk ~-refueling. Three hostages are relea"S~~C.,. , KAZAKSTAN , 
-,c-~..... ' ,• 
1 
',.,.., EJ 3: :ios·a:,~. !Lands at 

•~~~N "-~..:fe:shken\>lO"hostages Ta$.t'lkent :_v:-•are·reteased \, : \ /!!'I. '·., . 
.., _-4\. ,. u:3'\-f-.m. Radio contact Mitar-,l_ : is Io's,\ over Hindu (e-Sharif t;_/ Kush mountains.
• K;abul , , . , 
1 

es off from from Kabul )AFGtt.i(NISTAN r \,'" 
1

route to M~r-e-Sharif. \~ · / ' ·­
'C. ) (_--·· ..,,..__:_r.:-::-_-:·· 
u.__-'--'--'-----------"-------'--------"..ccL----­
Source: Compiled from AP wire reports 
know the identities of the hijackers nor have they received any demands, he said. 
In December, the Taliban criticized India for refusing to negotiate with five hijackers of an Indian Airlines plane that was held for more than a week in Afghanistan's southern city of Kandahar. 
India eventually opened talks with the hijackers after they threatened to start killing pas­sengers. The hijacking ended peacefully on Dec. 31 with the release of three pro-Kashmiri 
Global Health Initiative and Keough Hall Present: 
''Serving the Congo" Co-ed Volleyball Tournament Fundraiser 
Sunday, February 13, 2000 10am-6pm 
Winning teams receive prizes including: Burger King, Chili's, Olive Garden, Macri's Deli, Wolfies, T-shirts 
• 
First 32 teams only! • Teams of8 

• 
5 or 6 players on the floor 

• 
2 members of each gender per team 



• 
First 2 rounds are "first to 15" single-elimination; Quarter, Semi, and Finals will be best 2 out of3 games 

• 
Each team will be notified with a time slot for their first game (chosen at random) 

• 
$20 registration donation from each team requested (collected at Dining Hall tables or at the door) 

• 
all donations are to buy beds for an under-funded hospital in the Congo of Africa 

• 
further donations also accepted at the door 



• 
Refreshments provided at each game 

• 
Music 

• 
Pick up/Drop offregistration sheets at North and South Dining Halls Monday-Wednesday (February 7-9) 


• Tables will be available 11-1 and 5-7 

Questions? Call or email Kelly Hoene: 4-1422 Hoene. I or Dave Bishop: 4-2681 Dbishop 
militants. The hijackers were allowed to leave the airport and were given 10 hours to leave Afghanistan. They have not been seen since. 
Kim White, a spokeswoman for the local Essex police department, said authorities at Stansted airport, located 25 miles north of London, are well prepared for hijackings. 
It has become routine for Stansted to be designated by British authorities because there is enough space to isolate the planes with minimal dis­
'i"--,
AP 
ruption to the rest of the air­port's activities. 
In August 1 996, seven Iraqis took control of a Sudan Airways plane en route from the Sudanese capital of Khartoum to Amman, Jordan, and forced it to land at the British airport. 
The hijackers, who were seeking political asylum in Britain, surrendered to police at Stansted after seven hours of negotiations. All 193 passen­gers and crew members were released unharmed. 

r---------------._-·--------~------.-..-----------------·-...,...,..,_-------..-------•:---------........--""! 
Tuesday, February 8, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Statue of liberty's origins questioned 
Associated Pre<s 
BOSTON 

The Statue or Liberty has l.ong slood as a beacon of hope to immigrants. Hut Nalional Park Service roscarchers arc looking into the possibility that Lady Liberty may have beon intendnd, at least in part, as a mo11umCTnt to freed hlack slaves. 
And if that's true. it could kad to a change in how the park service portrays th11 114­vcar-uld monunrnnl's history. · An unsourcf'd text began appearing on the Internet scv­(! ra I ynars ago and quickly sprnad tlrn th<~ory that the wid1dy acr:Ppted history of tlrn Statue of Libertv is not true, says Hebec·'ea · Joseph, a Boston-based µark service anthropologist. 
Tim !nterntil rnport said lhal tlrn statu11 "was intended as a rnonunwnt to tlw abolition of slavery in tlw United States and that the original model was a black woman," accord­ing Lo Jos•\µh. 
The park service's ol'ficial history of thn Statue of Liberty holds it was proposed by French historian Edouard l.aboulaye in 1865 to com­memorate the friendship between Francr-J and the United States born during the lkvolutionarv War. 
But Laboulave was also a leader of Llw r,;ench abolition­ist movement with a commit­nrnnt to fighting slavery, notes Diane Dayson, the statue's 
superintendcnt. 
"Our history statos that he was an aholiti<rnist. but we still don't know whether or not it was relative to tlie Statue of Liberty." she says. "The important thing !'or us is just lo validate the history one way or another." 
Joseph is now combing archivns and libraries here and in France to find out whether Laboulaye also want­ed the statue to honor the rncnntly !'reed slavns. Davsun says h~ may have concehed the statue with both Urn slaves and Pranco-American friend­ship in mind. 

Hichard ..Our history states that shackle on its 
Newman. a {Bartholdi/ was an aboli­foot. rest>arch Joseph
tionist, but we still don 'l

officer at refused
know whether or not it was

Harvard Monday to Lniversity's relative to the Statue of say what she 
w. E. B. has discov­
Liberty."

DuBois ered so far. Institute Her final for Afru­Diane Dayson report is due Am eri can superintendent, for release Hescarch. this summer.
Statue of liberty
says it is w i d e I y believed in academic circles that Laboulaye meant for the statue to honor the slaves, as well as mark the recent Union victory in the Civil War and the life of Abraham Lincoln. 
However, by the time sculp­tor Frederic Auguste Bartholdi's 151-foot statue was erected in New York Harbor in 1886. European immigration had begun to rise 

Got News? Call 1 
THE 

dra.maticallv and the statue took on a whole new symbol­ism, he says. 
"It was entirely related to slavery, and not about immi­gration at all," Newman says. "The 'liberty' was the freedom of the slaves;." 
Joseph also is checking into the possibility a 21-inch model of Lady Liberty completed by Bartholdi in 1870 may have been based on Lhe likeness of a black woman. That model, now in thH Museum of the City of :'-Jew York, has a broken chain around its hand; the statue in the harbor has a more discreet b r o k e n 
"Those 
people who are looking for a report that's going to support the most tra­ditional interpretation of the Statue of Liberty are going to be disappointed," she said, "and those who are looking for a report that will support the rumors in their entirety will also be disappointed." 
"History is much more com­plicated than that. It's not a sound bite." 
-5323 
Pope stresses 
museums' importance 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
Giving his blessing to yet another Holy Year project, Pope John Paul II on !\,fonday inspected the new entrance 
to the 
part of the world," he said. 

Vatican 
"Truly one can say that 

Museums 
the museums constitute, 

a n d 
on the cultural level. one 

stressed 
of the most significant 

t h e 
doors of the Holy See open

church's 
to the world." 

determi­
The revamped entrance 

nation to 
symbolizes "thtci renewed


k c e p close ties to the world of culture. 
Tho museums, which include the Sistine Chapel, are one of the most 
when thfl Vatican startP.d its museums in the late 18th century, the visitors were "a very narrow elite group." 
But "today they number 
in the thousands each day, from every social and cul­tural stripe and from every 
will of the Church lo 1.lia­logue with humanity in the sign of art and of culture, making available tu all the heritage that history 

heavily vis­
"Truly one can say that
ited tourist 
attractions the museums constitute, in ltalv. To on the cultural lei,el. one 
mark· the 
of the most significant
2000 Holy 
Year, the doors ofthe Holy See 
Vatican open to the world. " built a new four-story 
John Paul II
entrance and atrium pope to ease crowding 
entrust­ed it with," he said. 
I n 
o t h e r H o I y Y e a r projects, t h e Vatican oversaw t h e cleaning of the facade 

and long lines to get in. 
of St. Peter's Basilica and 

John Paul, who appeared 
the completion of a Sistine 

in good spirits, noted that Chapel restoration. 




is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong edirorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper produc­tion and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged ro apply. 
Any sophomore or junior husin~s major ~~!~~~~~ry~~d~!uaq~o~exp<rience is encouraged ro apply. Applicants 
should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding ofaccounting principles. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to .Aft"ke Connolly by 5 p. m., Thursday, February I 0, 2000. }or additional information about the positior,, contact Business lvfanager Dave Rogero at 631-5313, 1',fanaging Editors Shannon Ryan and Laura I'etelle at 631-4541 or Editor in Chieflvfichelle Krupa at 631-4542. Applicants are also encouniged to stop by the office in South Dining Hall with any questions. 
------------~-------------------..,.,.....__
,,_____.._________________..._____,.~--._--------------------i 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page l 0 BSERVER Tuesday, February 8, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Noire DJme. [N 46556 02,; Sollrli Dining H,U. Norr< D,me. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krup.i 
M,\NAGING EDITOR 8USINF.S.~ MANAGFR 
M. Sh.rnnon Ryan Oa,·id Rogern 

Assr, MANAGING EDITOR Lmra Pc,dle 
NEWS EDITOR: T11n Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS Eun-OR: !luau Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SA.INT MARY'S EDITOR: Norccu Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Oalum 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
Av DESIGN MANAGER: Bree Huda, SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Tiinoth)' Lane GR,.l'HICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANACERlGENERAL INro .631-7471 FAX........... .. ....................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.. .................... ,.,. ....63 !-6900/11840 
obscn·er@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ................. ,............631-4542 MANAGING Eo1rnR!Ass1. ME.. ······ ........... G31-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........... ................631-5313 NEWS ...............631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
V!EWr.INT ............................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS. .....631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nJ.edu 
SCENE ...... . .................. 631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT J\,!AJly's .......................... 631-4324 
observer.smc l@nd.edu PHOTO.... ..631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ..... ,. .........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observenul.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns. as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for 

weather for up-co-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudent reviews. 

advertise for policies 
mJine features for spe­

anJ rares ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
ro meer die edi rors and

arrides published after 
August 199') 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Obsen·er is the independent. daily newspaper published in prim and on!ine by the scudenrs of rhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either instinirion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and obiecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the mdjoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisram M,maging Editor and departmem editors. Co1mnentaries, letters and colun1ns present rhe views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerters to the Editor must be signed and must indude cont.au lnformacion. 
Q11es11011S rtgt1rtli11g Obser11er policies rhoiild be direct­ed to Editor;,, Chie_/Mithetle KruP"· 

One of the most hurtful things anyone has ever said to me came from someone I had r,onsidered one of my closest friends. She was frustrated by my inability to pay for many of the things she thought we should buy for our Laura room. My family 
Antkowiak 
could have made some better choices so I could afford 
Guest Column 
more things, she told me. It was my parent.."' fault for having so many children. 
The comment stung. l do not remem­ber how I replied, as I have tried to for­get the exchange. But I know what I would tell her now. I have six younger brothers and sisters, and I would not go through life without a single one of them for any amount of money. mur,h less new lofts and couches. 
It used to be that my friends seemed somewhat envious of my family. I always had someone to play with, and most neighborhood activity revolved around my house. Every few years, I got to hold and cuddle a new baby. Long after I stopped believing in Santa Claus. children in my house still keep the magic of Christmas alive. 
But with increasing frequenr.y, l have encountered more negative reactions to my family life. My peers wonder how I tolerate the noise, how I survive on breaks without my own room, how I got by without some luxuries they enjoyed. The response I now hear more often is an emphatic. "That's why I believe in birth control." 
This saddens me; to think that we need to keep the birth of children under "control," like termites or mosquitoes. sounds so wrong. Yet to many of my peers, my parents are the backward ones. Thev are behind the times because they won't use tedrnology to control the size of our family. They are therefore finandally and socially irre­sponsible. I am planning a career in public policy, and sectinnmatcs have m;ked me bow I intend to do so if I am popping out a baby every year or lwo. They have told me they pity the 20 chil­dren I am sure to have because they will grow up poor in a crowded house with a busy mother. 

Granted, big families might not be for everyone. But God really does know what is best for us. and He has a way of working things out. Of course we need to be responsible ourselves about when we have sex and how we view it. We arc rapidly losing respect for the procre­ative aspect of sex. 
I have learned a lot from my section­mates in Lewis 2-South. According to them. sex is fun but children and preg­nancy definitely are not. Pregnancy will ruin their bodies. and children will thwart their fun and their careers. The women of whom I speak share an obsession -or at least a fascination ­with "getting some." This growing cul­tural selfishness is a significant obstade to rekindling healthy attitudes about sex and the family. So when this kind of "giving" is so clearly undesirable, why would anyone want to undertake the self-sacrifice demanded by bearing and raising a child, much less seven of them" 
At one point, I looked down upon my stav-at-home mother. I saw her as the antithesis of the modern woman. She wasted many of her talents. and her obvious delight in serving her family often bordered on the embarrassing. I have since matured and developed a more understanding relationship with my mother, one that leaves me admiring her as nothing short of a goddess or a saint. She, along with my father, has done an absolutely amazing job raising my siblings and me and keeping our home in order. She has displayed self­lessness that I once thought beyond my capacity. 
Could I one day put all my plans and my own pleasure on hold to go through a pregnancy and raise a child'! My cul­ture tells me I am crazy to say yes. But if Cod wills it, 1know now that I will 
DILBERT 

WOW! YOU'VE DEVELOPED EIGHT 
PATENTABLE IDEA:>, i\50K. 


SCOTT ADAMS 

u
& 
'! 
-= 
0 
.
.. 
;;
l/ll 
!i
e ;?
.. 
"' ~ 
" ~ 
~ 
,
g 
;;
.. 
C 
u.. 
E 
" 
~ 
0 
C 
::,
0 
0
t:: 
0
a, 
0
:!i! 
"' 
e
=a 
1t 
2
... 
~ 
7 


find this strength. H may be one of the most important things I ever do. 
But I'll need help -we all will. We need responsible fathers. Employers must offer more generous maternity and family leave policies. Our communi­ty, with resources and rhetoric, needs to support motherhood as something hon­orable, not a curse women must grudg­ingly bear. 
Being from a big family definitely has its drawbacks. People gawk when all nine of us walk into church or a restau­rant together. Janine rarely returns the clothes she borrows from me. While I tried to sleep through one car trip, Renee kept swatting my head. insisting, "I know you 're awake!" When I was a child, I never went skiing or to Disney World. I wore hand-me-down clothes. I didn't have cable or many expensive toys, but I do have happy memories of playing with He-Man action figures with my brother Chris, or soccer in our Baltimore City alley with the neighbor­hood kids. or dancing around the living room with my parents to their favorite 1970s records. And I know what it's like to have Brian and Meghan fling them­selves at me in the Baltimore airport, or to have Michelle climb into my bed at 4 
a.m. and cling to my arm, whimpering that she is afraid of the dark. 
Is this backwards? ls it contrary to all your ideas about what pPrsonal fullill­mrnt should involve'! It's hard to believe that family bonds can become outmoded so quickly, and one day we all may know how sweet it is. As fun as making babies may be, we all know that big families are a lot about working and about giving, not all about "getting some." At least, not that three-letter word that vv'e1\ike to get. but something else. Something better. 
Laura Antkowiak is a senior govern­ment major and co-president ofND Right to Life. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The Family! Home of all social evils, a charitale institution for indolent women, a prison workshop for the slaving breadwinner, and a hell for children. " 
August Waterhouse author, The Son of a Servant 
I 
-I 
C 
I 
I 
I I 

Tuesday, February 8, 2000 page 13 
THE Guv 


SCOTT LITTLE 

Musir is either good or bad. It doesn't really matter who's mak­ing it. male or female. It seems to me, though, that unless a girl µop star is a sex icon. guys could rarely give a crap. I don't know many guys who like the Indigo Girls or Ani DiFranco. And if they say they do. tbey are proba­bly just saying that to make girls like them. 
Guys like sex-icon girls \e.g. Jessica Simpson, Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera. Debbie Gibson I bct:ause when girls are singing it's fun to pretend that they am singing to you. As a guy. Dur thoughts are like. "I fey, I know what a girl wants and what a girl needs," or "lley, I drive girls r.razy." or "Hey, peo­ple want tu love me forever," or "Hey. I've got the moves to make thf' world go around. Electric YouthI" 
Plus these songs are littered with sexual references which guys have no trouble digesting. For instance, Britney Spears: 
He saia ..• Sfie sauf ••• 
Scene asks about love in a series ofcolumns 
leading up to Valentines Day. -6Jodat: CBoi c;Bmuls -vs. 6Jeen [Ji-vas ­Respond to these columns at Scene@nd.edu 
Something a little interesting 
about yesterday's introductions: 
'Tm so excited, I'm in too deep." The "He" described what he 
Or Jessica's "Pour yourself all 
wanted in a woman while the 
over me and I'll cherish every "She" gave a little background. 
drop here ou my knees." Oh You gender studies people out 
yeah, and "Hit you with what there might want to make a note. 
one more time?" There isn't any Oh, and Scott, not even movie 
mistake about it. I'm pretty sure stars and Russian supermodels 
old men wrote these types of' look like that in real life, not all songs that arc still in touch with women are looking to simply 
tho way they felt when they were snuggle. and we're a little too 
young and ugly and could only busy with reality to constantly 
dream about girls like Britney or worry how to make men happy. 
Jessica. They are just trying to One more thing, if! had to wait 
make the ugly men of today less for the guys here to protect me, I 
frustrated. A noble task. would wind up in a lot of bad sit­
And girls have their little fan­
uations. I'm sure these senti­tasy musical men. too. Like 98 ments will be echoed and Degrees. The Backstreet Boys, expanded upon by some letters to 
NKOTB and Meat Loaf, among the editor so I'll get on to the task others. The same goes for them. at hand. Don't be too harsh ladies except I'm pretty sure that the he is still just a sophomore.
-same old men write their songs Britney Spears, Christina Aguil­too. era, N-Sync, BSB ... all products 
Some really good girl bands of the New Kids on the Block for­that I like are September 67. mula. As a female student at Barbara Manning and Chug. Notre Dame you think that this 
p.s. Check out the Olson twins. might be one of my favorite top­I know they aren't in music, but ics, but actually I admit that a 
they keep getting hotter! male Dorner might have better insight for one major reason: He is generally far more enthusiastic about guy/girl bands. My male 
Tomorrow's topic: Commentary on the opposite sex in the Notre Dame family 
THE GAL 


ERICKA RAVETTINE 

neighbors host seemingly weekly karaoke shin-digs where you hear guys belt out the "intricate" lyrics of' Britney Spears, 98 Degrees and many others late into the night. 
Yes, both guys and girls know the words tu "Hit Me Baby One More Time" or "Everybody," but seriously. how many girls at Notre Dame do you know who have posters of boy bands up on the walls? Posters of Christina Aguilera and Britney Spears, however, plaster the walls in male rooms. 
We can also look at Halloween as an example. Granted two years ago there were a number of Spice Girls, but this Halloween we saw very few female Britneys and Christinas. Instead. there were a bunch of Joeys, Nicks and AJs. 
Several groups of guys took up the task of being an entire boy band. We all know that the focus has turned away from musical talent and moved toward the entertainment value of the bands. This makes me wonder, what is the male Domer's obsession with the cookie cutter. media savvy member of a girl/guy band besides the physical attraction? 
UPCOMING CONCERTS 
South Bend 

Transoms, Doc Brown 
Butterfly Effect & 
American Standard 


Yerc•cal Horizon & · Stepan Center 
StrokeO 
Kenny Wayne Shepherd Heartland 
Alan Jackson Paula Cole Fiona Apple 
NaCT GraT 
Saw Doctors Bela Fleck Tonic Smashmou-th Pretenders Fiona Apple 
Indianapolis 
Conseco 
Yoaue Theatre 
Murat 'theatre 
Chicago 
House of Blues 
Ne'iro 
House of Blues 
Double Door 
Araaon 
Riviera Theacre 
Rliviera Theatre 

Felt.•·•·· 
Febi29 Nar• ., 
Felt.9 Felt. I I Feb. 19 Feb. 1•9 
Feb.··20 Felt.15•26 Nar. 11 


.::. 
_, 



page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 8, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Miller scores 32 as Indiana tops Philly, I 09-84 
the record by defeating Philadelphia.

Associated Press 
"They were great," Brown said of the Pacers, who shot 54 percent, outre­
INDIANAPOLIS bounded the 76ers 43-39 and blocked
four years ago, Larry Brown 
12 shots. "They shot well and defended

coachPd the Pacers to a franchise 
well."
Reggie Miller overcame a slow start
home. On Monday night, he was an 
to score a season-high 32 points

unwilling spectator as Indiana broke despite sitting out the fourth quarter, 

:,_ 
KAT photo 

Charlie Ward (21) goes up for a block on Eddie Jones (6) in Monday's game. Charlotte defeated the New York, 95-85. 
and the Pacers limited Allen Iverson to just 14. "Reggie was just sensational," Brown said. 
Iverson, who matched his career high with 50 points Sunday in a 119­108 triumph over Sacramento, made only 6-of-19 shots. 
"Naturally the emphasis was to stop him and make sure he didn't get easy looks at the baskeL I thought we did a great job of swarming to the ball each time he put it on thP floor," said Travis Best, one of !'our Indiana guards that helped hold the league scoring leader 17 points below his average. 
Iversou declined to credit the Pacers for their defensive effort. 
''The only person who could stop me is myself. I made some bad shots early and had some bad judgments." added Iverson, who often had Miller defend­ing him with help from teammates. 
Orlando 120, Golden State 100 
Doc llivers worried that the Orlando Magic might be ripe for a letdown after beating two of the best teams in the Eastern Conference. 
But there was no f;ause for alarm Monday night with the Golden State Warriors playing more like the team that lost 12 straight in December and January than the r,lub that recently won four in a row. 
"After beating New York and Indiana back to back, this game scareq me a little bit," Rivers said after the Magic never trailed in a rout of the team with the third-worst record in the NBA. 
" I think the last three or four games we've really hit a nice stretch defen­sively, which has scored a lot of points for us. It's all about defense, and tonight we never let up." 
Second-year center John Amaechi scored a career-high 25 points. all but two in the first half. His backup, Michael Doleac, had a season-high 23 points, while Hon Mercer scored 18 in his second game since joining the Magic in a trade last week. 
"We were very concerned about this team because we just played two tough teams," Amaechi said. "We were smoked by these guys last time (113­100 at Golden State on Jan. 17), so we knew we had to play." 
Charlotte 95, New York 85 
Contrary to how it may have appeared, Eddie Jones said his perfor­mance was nothing personal against the New York Knicks and Kurt Thomas. 
Jones scored a season-high 34 points -one short of his career-best -to lead the Charlotte Hornets to a victory over the injury-ravaged Knicks on Monday night. 
"It was one of those nights when I think I just wanted it a lot more than 
anybody else," said Jones, who made 13 of 20 field-goal attempts, including 5-for-7 from 3-point range. 
Jones was facing New York for the first time since a hard foul Dec. 20 by Thomas left him with a torn ligament in his left elbow. The injury sidelined Jones for 10 games. 
"It was something that didn't have to happen, yPah. but I wasn't upset," Jones said. "We can't control some of the things that we do." 
Jones, voted a starting guard for the Eastern Conference in next week1md's All-Star game, helped the Hornr.ts make a season-high 10 3-pointers. 
"Eddie was outstanding," coach Paul Silas said. "Every time we needed it, ho stepped up. I-le hit big 3-pointers, he drove to the hoop, he got steals. If he'd missed a couple of shots, New York would have been right back in it. I think it was his best game by far." 
The Hornets helped their cause by getting Patrick Ewing into foul trouble. Ewing, coming off a 44-minute outing Sunday in which he had 25 points and 14 rebounds to lead the Knicks over MiamL followed it up against Charlotte with 15 points, 10 rebounds and four fouls in 38 minutes. 
Portland 115, Milwaukee 111 
Steve Smith scored 24 points and Rasheed Wallace added 17 to lead the Portland Trail Blazers to a victory over the Milwaukee Bucks at the Bradley Center. The Blazers won their third straight and their ninth in the last 10 games. 
Glenn Hobinson scored 27 points and Ray Allen poured in 26 for the Bucks, who lost their second in a row and their third in the last four games. 
Milwaukee led 84-78 after three quarters, but Portland opened up the fourth with a 13-4 run to take the lead. Detlef Schrempf canned a jumper with 
9:21 left to pull the Blazers within one and then made another basket with 
8:55 remaining to put them up 89-88. 
Schremp!' then sank a pair of free throws with 7:55 left to cap the spurt and put Portland up 91-88. But a three-pointer by Robinson at the other end tied the game at 91 apiece with 
7:25 to go. 
The contest was knotted at 97-97 before Greg Anthony buried a three­pointer with 4:49 to play, putting the Blazers up for good at 100-97. 
A three-point play by Allen with 18 seconds left pulled Milwaukee within 111-109, but Brian Grant gave the Blazers a four-point lead by hitting a pair from the charity stripe with eight seconds remaining. 
A layup by Robinson at the other end again brought the Bucks within a bas­ket, but Smith sealed the victory for Portland by sinking two free throws with two seconds left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wirhout issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
._  NOTICES LOSE WEIGHT! EAT WHAT YOU LIKE!  LOST & FOUND ANNABELLE· YOU LEFT YOUR GLASSES AND CONTACT CASE  WANTED 2 TX MBBall ND-UCONN Please call Alan 634-4469  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE 2773097 B'NB REGISTRY  Compaq Computer has CD burner and printer $13001OBO Mike at 247-119  i don't want to go to advanced cor­porate fanta.sy Whats up 2, 3, 4 Whats up, 2, 3, 4 Whats up  
WEIGHT WATCHERS BRAND· NEW ON CAMPUS PROGRAM  IN MY CAR WHEN I GAVE YOU A AIDE TO ND FROM THE TRAIN STATION MONDAY.  FOOS BALL players wanted. Looking for 2-3 high level teams to play Contact D in evenings 257­4441.  219-291-7153 3 bdrm. home, 1-1/2 bath, tri-level, FIR w/FIP Fenced back- PERSONAL www.thecommentator.com  hienn Connolly- 
Your super-convenient dream diet from a name you trust is coming to Notre Dame and St Mary's! No  CALL 272-9225. Lost: Cincinatti Reds hat, Jett at  FOR RENT  yard. 2-car garage. Gas heat, NC, across from park. $1,500/mo. Grad. students preferred.  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS  1 hate you and I want you to die. J fully blame you for giving me this flu.  
complicated counting! Eat pizza, cake•any food you crave and lose weight Get five info-packed book- JACC during LNO, HUGE santi­mental value. reward if found. Call Scott 4-1304  2·6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272­6306  616-683-5038 or 232-4527. Mobile: 219-340-1844  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS Deadline is 2 pm on Friday, Feb  And Noreen hates you and wants you to die for giving her the "hate• you-and-want-you-to-die" curse.  
lets, tons of super-easy recipes, and specialized online support from trained Weight Watchers staff. You pay just $79 for 7 weeks.  WANTED  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE http:llmmmrentals.homepage.com/  FOR SALE New Phone Card  11 Happy Birthday Camilleri  Your attempt at lifting it did not work. -P-tel  
Start the millennium right-register  Professor needs 3 hrs. help on  email:mmmrentals@aol.com  886 mins. $20  Hey 315  
today over the phone: 1-800-651-6000.  small farm 1 mile from N.D.  232-2595  258-4805 Dr 243-9361  Another Thursday night at the Boat Club?????  GAY & LESBIAN STUDENT GROUP meets Wednesda)1, Feb. 9  
Visa. MasterCard and Discover accepted.'  277-5328 Email Ford.1@nd.edu  6 BEDRM. '00·'01 $1200/mo. 273-0482  1991 Honda accord EX 88,000 miles $6000 219-273-8483  anybody need to put out a lire? ask crazy. he knows how.  at9pm. Call Tom@ 1-4112 or Tami @ 1-3016 for more info.  

. • I 

Tuesday, February 8, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday, February 7 through Friday. February 11 l 03 Hesburgh Library 
NOE #60 (Mar. 31-Apr. 2) Sign-Up 
Friday-Saturday. February 11-12 Lindenwood Retreat Center learning to Talk About Race Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, February 11-12 St. !oe Hall Freshman Retreat #27 
Friday-Saturday. February 11-12 Oakwood Park, Syracuse. IN Senior Retreat # 1 
Saturday-Sunday, February 19-20 Pilsen. Chicago. IL Encuentro Chicago Retreat 
Space still available. Inquire at Campus Ministry 
or Center for Social Concerns 
Monday. February 14 through Monday. February 28 l03 Hesbur~h Library 
Freshman etreat #28 (Mar. 3-4) Sign-Up 
Targeted dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Howard, Keough, 
Knott, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, and Sorin 
Monday, February 14 through Friday. March 24 l03 Hesburgh Library 
Senior Retreat #2 (Mar. 31-Apr. 1) Sign-Up 
IT'S NEVER TOO LATE!!! 
EMMAUS FAITH-SHARING GROUPS ARE STILL BEING FORMED! 

Communities of Faith Sharing and Scripture Study 

• 
Perfect for those returning from studies abroad 

• 
Take this opportunity to deepen your friendships or make new ones while growing in your faith. 

• 
Each Emmaus group consists of 6-8 members meeting weekly for about an hour to pray, discuss Scripture and 


faith-related issues while sharing the "ins and outs" of daily lives as NO students. 
• Join individually, with friends or as an entire group. 
For more information contact: Clare Sullivan at 1-3389 

i-~JijJ:.; \:t:J '-:lJJ'JJ :@ (~~jJJ_;)JJ~ ii~JJjJJ.:-j!Jj)j 
0need~[JQ(£)abou1: ••• 1 ~Q3for: 
Notre Dame Encounter fr. jim lies, CSC or Sr. Sue Bruno. OSF @ Hesburgh Freshman Retreat Fr. David Scheidler, CSC, Fr. Bill Wack @ Hesburgh Senior Retreat Fr. john Herman, (SC @ Hesburgh Emmaus (Faith sharing & Scripture study) Tami Schmitz @ Badin Confirmation Fr. John Conley, CS( @Badin RCIA (becoming Catholic) Tami Schmitz @ Badin Marriage Preparation & Relationships John & Sylvia Dillon or Chris Etzel @Badin Teach religion to youth in local parishes John & Sylvia Dillon@Badin Learning to Talk About Race retreat Priscilla Wong @ Badin Ministry to Lesbian/Gay students Fr. Tom Doyle, CS( or Tami Schmitz @ Badin Planning music for my wedding Dr. Gail Walton or Andrew McShane @ Badin Liturgical/Choir resources for residence halls Steve Warner @ Badin Liturgical Choir Dr. Gail Walton @ Badin Folk Choir Steve Warner @ Badin Woman's Choir Andrew McShane @ Badin /"JJ < ~ Celebration Choir or Handbell Choir Karen Kirner @ Badin (1) Coro Primavera fr. Pat Neary @ Hesburgh Voices of faith or Rejoice Gospel Choir Chandra Johnson @631-3748 Ministries at the Basilica Steve Camilleri @ 1-6282 Latino Student Ministry & Latino Mass fr. Pat Neary @ Hesburgh African American Student Ministry & Mass Chandra Johnson @631-3748 Asian American Student Ministry Priscilla Wong @ Badin Chaplain to ROTC students Fr. Pat Neary, CS( @Hesburgh Interfaith Christian Night Prayer Frank Santoni@Badin Campus Bible Study Fr. Al D'Alonzo. CSC @Badin Vocation to Religious Life Fr. Bill Wack, (SC @631-8891, or Sr. Sue Bruno, OSF @631-5740 
ffioo~IJD 00fuo. 6 3 1-52 41 0000Cbm[F0[b 01!~[?}7 63 1-7800 
Good Stuff to Know 

IINOW, THE DEADLINE 
WAILAIT 

... but we've extended it for you. Senior Retreat applications arc still being accepted @ 103 Hesburgh Library• Until 4pm, TODAY. 
Lesbian/Gay student group will meet Wednesday night @ 9pm Call Tom@l-4112 or Tami 1-3026 
we C: SU£ 
--= 

page 16 The Observer. SPORTS Tuesday, February 8, 2000 
NFL 
Police continue Lewis investigation 
Associued Press 
ATLANTA 
Police searclrnd Ray Lffwis· home in suburban Baltimore on \'londay, but would not dis­dose what they were looking for or what thev found in con­ncc ti on with· the murder charges facing the NFL star. 
Officrrs could be seen carry­ing large plastir containers from thP. home and loading a computer into a Yan. 
Atlanta police spokesman John Quigley ronfirmed a search warrant was executed, but he would not elaborate on the searrh by Atlanta and Baltimore County police. 
While police sought dues in Lewis' home, his lawyor said all the passengers in the Iirn-. ousine that fled thP. scene ot the two fatal stabbings con­tend his client was not part of the post-Super Bowl brawl. 
Don Samuel told The Associated Press on Monday that he and other defense lawyers and investigators have interviewed all six men. including Lewis. 
"We're all hearing one voice -Ray was not involved_ in knifing anybody or attacking anybody," Samuel said. "W_e have not interviewed the dri­ver, but everyone else says Hay wasn't the one." 
The Sun in Baltimore reported Monday that 51­year-old limo driver Duan_e Fassett told police that Lewis threw at least one punrh in tht> fight that rnsulted in the two deaths. 
The affidavit police used to obtain the arrest warrant against Lewis cited an_ unide':• tifled witness who said Lewis participated in the "punching, beating, and stabbing" of the two men. 
The Baltimore Ravens play­er is in Atlanta Detention Center on murder charges stemming from the deaths of Jacinth "Shorty" Baker, 21, and Richard Lollar. 24, both of Decatur. 
Samuel said interviews have not shed light on who actually stabbed the two men. He would not release the names of the other limo passengers. 
Atlanta police have said they want to interview two men thought to have been in the limo -former Universitpi of Maryland football player'A.J. Johnson and Kwame King, a friend of Lewis. 
Johnson, who says he was at home in Laurel. Md., during the Super Bowl weekend, said Sunday that Atlama investiga­tors had interviewed him. 
Samuel said the del'ense Lr.am has interviewed more than 30 people, and accounts as to what happen vnry wildly. 
"We've heard everything from it was a war zone and there was fighting everywhere to that there were four total involved. including the two victims," Samuel said. 
Atlanta television station WSB-TV reported Monday that investigators Monday also visited The Sports Authority location in Duluth whPre Levvis held an autograph ses­sion the day before the Super Bowl. 
The store sells hunting knives, and previously pub­lished reports have said that receipts for knives were found in Lewis' hotel room, but the store was not known. 
Police and store officials would confirm or deny that investigators visited the store. 
A lawyer for the limo driver. said his client should not be seen as "a star wilness against Ray Lewis." . 
"He's told police what he saw. And he's told police what he didn't see," David Irwin said. 
Irwin would not comment on what Fassett has told police. But he said Fassett has peri­odically driven for Lewis dur­i n g the past year and is "friendly" with the 24-year­old player. 
"lle's verv distraught about tho trouble· that has bn!'allen Hay," Irwin said. 
Irwin would not comment on previous reports that knives and blood were found in the limo. 
Samuel said Fassett may have seen Lewis trying to break up the right. 
"\Ve don't know what his vantage point was or what he actually saw," Samuel said. 
lie also said that because someone shot at the fleeing limo and bullet holes in the r.ar were evident, someone other than the victims might have been involved in the 
fight. 
Samuel said prosecutors have not approached Lewis with the possibility or lesser charges if the player identifies the actual killer. 
"Our conversations haven't gotten there yet," Samuel said. "They can find that out without needing Ray's help. Evervbody who was there will figure out who else was in car sooner or later, and from there, it's not going to be any great mystery." 


NCAA BASKETBALL 
Foreigners dominating game 
Associa1eJ Press 
TOltONTO 
The next time commissioner Cary Bettman delivers one of' his state of' !he NI IL speeches, perhaps his foreign affairs dcpartmf'nt should write it. 
As the World team's dominat­ing 9-4 All-Star victory Sunday over North America empha­sized, the re is a new world order in what now is the inap­propriately named National Hockey League, whose reiular sm,son rPsmnPs Tu<>sday. 
The brightest stars in a league once ruled by Lemieux and Grntzky, Hichard and Howe now are named Bure and Jagr and Hasek. And the NHL is finding those stars not in Kanata and Medicine Ilat. but Kladno and Moscow. 
A quarter-century ago. 90 percent of' tlte NHL was North American born and bred, now only 65 percent is. 
This torrent or European tal­ent, let looso a decade ago when the Berlin Wall tumbled down and Communism col­lapsed in the Soviet Bloc, has altered not only the NHL's sta­tistics sheet and its standings, but its very personality. 
The balance of power clearly shifted to thn East during the European-dominated 1998 Olympics in Nagano, won by the Czech HP.public. Canada didn't even medal in its most popular sport, and the only mark left bv the Unitr,d States was on its dormitory room walls. 
The trnnd that b11gan in Nagano is playing out in the NI IL. One year after the le:ague was stuck in a defensive mode, unable to l'ree itself from its own neutral zoni> trap, scoring is up -a byproduct not only of the European influence, but the 4-on-4 overtime format that has significantly cul down on tics. 
Scoring leader Jaromir Jagr oJ' Pittsburgh so likes 4-on-4 ­it has so spef'ded up overtime, perhaps it should be called 4­on-the lloor -that he proposed the league play it for 60 min­utes, every game, every night. 
"The players now are so big and strong and thP rinks are too small," .Jagr suid. "If I was going to make hockey bcttAr, I would cithr,r make the rinks bigger or play 4-on-4 all the time. It's more exciting for the fans, they stand the whole five minutes in overtime." 
Jagr (Czech Republic) and Pavel Bure !Russia) arc heating up a scoring race that previous­ly looked to be a Jagr runaway and now featurns four Europeans among the top 1 0 scorers. 
Burn and St. Ltlllis forward Pavo! Oomitra combined Sunday for five of the ninP World team goals, all of them scored by Eastern Europeans, Of the game's 13 goals, only four wern by Canadians or Americans. 
The NHL could evfin gNs its first Europlian-born coach as early as next year, when Czech Hepublic coach Ivan Hlinka is exper,ted to n)place Herb Brooks in PitL<,burgh. 
Uh. oh. Canada. 

Wayne Gretzky, now simply the Hetired One, thinks he knows why the Canadian influ­ence no longer dominates what 
now  is  a  league  of  many  
nations.  
"The  one  thing  that  we  

seemed to have lost that the .Jean BPlivcaus, Bobby Orrs and Gordie I (owes of the world had is creativity and imagination," Gretzky said. "That creativity was basically founded by the fact they would go to ponds and skate for six, seven, eight hours a day, choose up sides, have two nets and no goalies, and away you go." 



HOMES FOR RENT 
-Domus Properties has two, five, and seven bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
---~----------..-....~·----------~-...,...-----~--------,,----------------------------......
''. 

Tuesday, February 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Seton Hall knocks off undefeated Syracuse 
As.odated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. Fourth-ranked Syracuse tinallv met its match. 
Darius Lane hit a 3-pointer with 39 seconds left Monday night to lift Seton Hall to a 69­67 victory over the previously unbeaten Orangemen, whose season-opening win streak ended at 19 games. 
Despite hitting just 2-of-13 3­pointers, shooting 37.3 percent and getting only seven points combinPd from starters Damone Brown. Ryan Blackwell and Tony Bland, Syracuse {19-1, 9-1 Big East) hung in until the end. 
With the Carrier Dome crowd rrarhing deaftc!ning levels, Blackwell scornd his only points of th!' gnmP with 1:07 left. hitting two fn•<• lhrows to put Syracuse ahead l'or the la.st time. 67-6h. 
Lane, who finished with 20 
points, won it with a long 3 from the left side. and the Pirates survived a 3-point try by Preston Shumpert and close-in shots by Blackwell and Etan Thomas in the final 10 seconds. 
Shaheen Holloway had 12 points, 11 rebounds and nine assists for Seton Hall. Himas Kaukcnas had 16 points and Ty Shine 10 for the Pirates (16­4, 8-2). 
Jason llart led Syracuse with 14 points but had no assists, Thomas had 13 points and 14 rebounds. Shumpert had 12 points and DeShaun Williams 11. 
The ){ame was rescheduled t'rom Jan. 22 because of' a dor­mitory fire at Seton Hall that killr,d thrcA students. 
Seton Hall, which used some grnat passing in tlrn first hall' -the Pirates had 10 assists ­reverted in the second half to the long-range shooting that had C'rushed West Virginia 97­66 Saturday. 

After Shumpert's three-point play put Syracuse ahead 47-46 with 11 ::-l6 to go, the Pirates began hitting 3s. Holloway hit the first, and Shine and Lane each had two to put the Pirates back on top 60-55 with 5:58 remaining. 
Williams led Syracuse on an eight-point surge with a steal and fast-break layup and a 3 to move the Orangemen within 64-63. And when Lane missed two free throws, it appeared Syracuse might again escape as it had a week earlier against St. John's. 
But even a tremendous save by Williams to Thomas, who then led Hart for a layup with 
1:41 lcfl lo keep the Orangemen's hopes alive, was not r.nough. 
SetCJn Hall held the Orangemen in check with some tough man defense all game. Syracuse hit only three of its first 13 shots while the Pirates were 6-of-9. 
Consecutive 3-pointers by Lane and Kaukenas staked Seton Hall to an early 12-6 lead, and the Pirates kept the edge despite some early foul trouble for Samuel Dalembert. 
Syracuse's depth allowed the Orangemen to stay in the game. 
Coach Jim B(rnheim rotated nine players in and out in an effort to find a hot hand, and Kueth Duany responded. Used sparingly during the season, Duany hit three layups off some crisp passing to keep Svracuse close. 
·Al Harris, who had a career­high 10 points, did the same for the Pirates, coming in for Oalembert when the big fresh­man center was called for his second foul with 12:28 left in the period. 
Harris scored six straight points to maintain the Pirates' five-point lead at 22-17 with 
8:28 to go. 
OLYMPICS 
Difficult road ahead for committee 
Associated Press 
COLOHAOO SPRINGS. Colo. 
If gold medalists Michael Johnson and Amy Van Dyken can spend countless hours preparing for the Olympics. the new chief of the U.S. Olympir Committee expects nothing less of his employees. 
Welcome to the USOC under Norman Blake. "There's no frep, ride here," BlakP. said Monday as he offi­
cially began work as chief executive officer. "I never want our athletes to feel like we're hangers-on, that we're an unnecessary overhead -a weight on their back. I want them to look at us and say. "Wow! They really helped me be the best I can be, and they're busting their butt just like I am.' 
"If you have to work on weekends, if vou have to work at night. tha.t's just what an athlete has to do to get ready for a competition. This is a competition." 

Those who followed Blake when he was CEO at insur­ance giant U.S. Fidelity & Guaranty, and chief of Promus Hotel Corp. are familiar with his competitive nature. They say the 58-year-old Purdue alumnus has a reputation for being a master motivator who can convince his executive staff to embrace his vision and carry it out with efficiency. 
"It's pretty fair to say part of his success in the past has been the ability to put a good face on the future and build a following on that," said Michael Smith, a New York­based analyst who follows the insurance industry for Bear Sterns. 
"The first change you can expect is a change in the num­ber [of staffers]. He's very focused on expenses and run­ning a lean ship." 
Blake has promised changes in the way the USOC is man­aged, but the details proba­
RACING 
President, CFO face charges 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

The president and chief financial officer of a renowned thoroughbred farm were convicted of conspiracy, fraud and bribery Monday for paying off a banker to win large unsecured loans for their stables. 
J .T. Lundy and Gary Matthews were convicted of four counts each of conspira­cy, fraud and bribery. Sentencing is set for late April. 
Lawyers for the two did not return calls seeking com­ment. 
Lundy and Matthews once ran one of the most celebrat­ed thoroughbred stables in the world, Calumet Farm. Prosecutors painted a picture of the men's life in the late 1980s as one of prime seats at the Kentucky Derby, forays to France. priceless art and fast money. 
The good times came to a screeching halt in 1991, when the Lexington, Ky., stables declared bankruptcy. It was sold at a 1992 auction for $17 million. 
The government spent the past three weeks describing financial schemes they say were carried out behind the scenes during the years lead­ing to the collapse. 
While Calumet's fortunes secretly evaporated, prosecu­tors say, Lundy and Matthews paid First City Ba.ncorporation vice chair­man Frank Cihak a $1 million bribe. 
The Calumet officials also presented the Houston banker with a pair of mares and breeding rights to Alydar. the stable's most esteemed stud. the government alleged. 
In exchange, First City loaned the stables $65 million without checking the farm's credit or value, prosecutors said. 
During closing arguments Monday. defense lawyers told the panel the government failed to demonstrate the duo's guilt. 
"If time has distorted the evidence to the point where [,proving guilt] can't be done, that is their problem," Lundy's attorney Dave McGee said, wagging a finger at the jury. "Not ours." 
First City struggled after Calumet, one of the bank's biggest loan clients, folded. Shortly after the stables declared bankruptcy, the Houston bank failed. 
Cihak and four associates were convicted on fraud and money laundering charges. Cihak was sentenced to more 
han 1 2 years in federal 
>rison in 1994. 
Even the fate of the stallion 
\lydar took a tragic turn. 
:alumet gave Alydar, the 
·unner-up to Affirmed in all 
hree Triple Crown races in 
.978, a lethal injection after 
he prized stud's leg was bro­
cen inexplicably. 
Calumet cashed in a $35 nillion insurance policy on :he stallion. The FBI is inves­tigating the horse's mysteri­ous death. 
bly won't be finalized until the spring. He has set a 90­day timeline to establish goals and objectives, and outline his plan of execution. 
"The USOC staff is very hierarchical. There are a lot of assistants and I believe in a flat organization with clear lines of accountability," Blake said. "It doesn't mean that people are going to nec­essarily be dismissed, but it does mean structurally it's going to change." 
This much is certain: suc­cess will be measured in gold, silver and bronze. Blake wants the work of his staff to be reflected in the medal count at the 2000 Summer Games in Sydney, Australia, and the 2002 Winter Games in Salt Lake City. 
"That is going to be the bottom line," he said. "That's what the USOC is all about ­better enabling our athletes to compete to the best of their abilities." 
,-----L-E_AD__E_R_S__~ 
Full-time college student or graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post offer mental and physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com 
All Faculty & Students Are Invited to participate in an  
Open Forum on the relationshi~ between academic & student life  
¦  What expectations do you have for faculty involvement in student life outside the classroom?  
¦  Are academic life and student life well integrated at ND?  
¦  What would you like to tell us?  
*  *  *  

The Ad Hoc Committe on Academic and Student Life will sponsor two open meetings: 
Wednesday, February 9, 4:30-5:30 pm Thursday, February 17, 7:00-8:00 pm 
Both meetings will take place in the Notre Dame Room on the 2nd floor of Lafortune. 
Please join us! 


______.,._,______________________________....,_________________,.,.,,~.--' "----------,------·
. 0 I 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 8, 2000 
PGA 
Tiger claims sixth straight with win at Pebble 


It was a command perfor­mance, filled with spectacular shots that have defined Woods' young but spectacular career. It ended with Woods watching from the 18th green as Matt Gogel missed a 10-f'oot birdie putt on the 18th that would have forced a playoff. 
Woods dosed with an 8­under 64, the lowest final round by a champion in the 53­year history of Pebble Beach. He finished at 15-under 273 and earned $720,000. 
"I figurnd if I birdied the last four holes, r might have a chanr.e." Woods said. 
Gogel. the 28-year-old tour rookie. made birdie on five of the first seven holes to seem­ingly turn thP final round into a rout. 
Instead, he turnP.d in a shock­ing collapse -a 40 on the back nine -that will only be forgot­ten bflcauso of a miraculous comeback by a player who never ceases to amaze. 
So shaken by his failed birdie putt, Gogel missed a 3-footer for par on the 18th and wound up in a tic for second at 13­under 275 with Vijay Singh. Gogel closed with a 71, while Singh had a 70. 
"I said it yesterday, he's going to be there at the end," said Notah Begay. an ex-teammate at Stanford who finished three behind. "It adds to the whole mystique of Tiger." 
It was the 17th career PGA Tour victory for the 24-year-old Woods. Among active players not on the Senior Tour, only Ben Crenshaw (19) and Greg Norman (18) have won more. 
What Woods has proved dur­ing his PCA Tour winning streak -even as far back as his throe straight U.S. Amateur titles -5 is that he can nevN be counted out until he's no longer on the golf course. 
Woods was five strokes behind to start the final round, which was pushPd back to f\1onday because of high winds and rain earlier in tho tourna­ment. Despite the relatively sernne conditions, he managed only three birdies through the first 11 holes and was running out of' time. 
Not onlv was he seven strokes behind. llve other players were in front of him. 
Woods needed some help, and Gogel obliged. Five under after his first seven holes, Gogel came unglued after his first bogey of the day -on No. 11 -and handled the spotlight like a deer on tho highway. 
But this day will be remem­bered mon• for the spt1ctacular play by Woods, 
The guy who folded his arms and stared blankly across the ocean for most o·f his round suddenly unleashed one of those famous fist pumps when his wedge on the 15th landed four feet to the right of the holA with just enough spin to slide across the grain and into the cup. 
One hole later, he missed another eagle when his wedge landed an inch in front of the cup on its second bounce. set­ting up a 2-foot birdie. 
He missed the green to the 
right on the par-3 17th. not far from where Tom Watson chipped in to win the U.S. Open in 1982. lie nearlv matched Watson's heroic shcJt, the ball turning away at the last turn. 
Woods came up short on the par-5 18th, hit a nice 11op shot to 3 feet, and then had to wait about 30 minutes to see if Gogel could catch him. 
lie only had two decent birdie chances, and none of those came very close. 
Next up for Woods is the Buick Invitational this week in San Diego, where he is the defending champion. Should he continue to win. he would sur­pass Nelson at the tournament where the Woods legend took root -the l\1asters. 
For Gogel. it was another les­son to be learm1d from playing in the final group on the final day. lie was there two weeks ago in the Rob Hope Classic, came out conservatively. and was quickly passed. 
This time. he started with three straight birdies. and moved to 5-under for the round with a 25-t'oot birdie from just off the green at No. 7. 
The 10th hole is the last one that runs south down the Pacific coast, ending a terroriz­ing six-hole stretch where the tournament is more often lost than won. When Gogel walked off No. 10 with a par, he had a five-stroke lead over Singh, and Woods was nowhere to be found. 
That changed as quickly as clouds replaced sunshine at the start of the round. 

Associated Pres, 
PEBBLE UEACH. Calif. 

With an astonishing come­back to win the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. Tiger Woods on Monday moved a step closer to Byron Nelson's "untouch­able" record of I 1 straight vir.­tories. 
Seven strokes behind with seven ho]Ps to play. Woods 
electrified an otherwise gray afternoon on the Monterey Peninsula by holing a 97-yard wedge for eagle on the 15th and making birdies on two of the last three holes for his sixth straight PGA Tour victory. 
Woods became the first play­er since Ben Hogan in 1948 to win six straight tour events and took an unbelievable leap clos­er to :\fclson's record, which was set in 1945. 
w ---­

Tuesday, February 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
HOCKEY 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Carlson nruned CCHA PSU's Paterno promotes Ganter 
The expected changes come Dick Anderson. Jay Paterno
player of the week 
Associated Press 

two weeks after Penn State had been coaching tight 
said Paterno signed a five­ends. Anderson will coach
His recent timely play makes 

STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
year contract extension N the guards and centers, while
Special to The Observer 
Carlson just the second player in 

Rip Engle cleared the path 
first such announcement in line coach Bill Kenney takes
Notre Dame hockey history ­

for Joe Paterno in 1964.
Notre Dame junior left wing 
Paterno's 50 years at the uni­tackles and tight ends,
and the first in 28 years -to 

Paterno insists he is not
Dan Carlson has been named the 
versity. Ho said he plans to Defensive ends coach Larry
score two overtime goals in the 

doing the same for longtime
Central Collegiate I-lockey 
continue coaching at least Johnson takes over the line
same season. Junior winger Paul 

assistant Fran Ganter.
Association player of the week 
through 2004. from Joe Sarra, who moves
Hegan scored two overtime goals 

Ganter, Penn State's offen­
-the first Irish player so hon-
Also Monday, defensive into an administrative posi­
during the 1971-72 season. 

sive coordinator since 1984
ored this 
backs coach Tom Bradley tion. Sarra will focus on

Carlson's goal at OSU held 

and a Paterno assistant for
s(•ason 
was promoted to head the sports camps, agents. pro
even extra significance, as it 

nearly 30 years, became 
defense, replacing the retired teams, fund-raising and facil­
after fo.ctor­
marked the first timl' that the 

assistant head coach 
Jerry Sandusky. Bradley has ities.
ing in all 
Irish have sr.ored a game-win­

Monday, a new title that
thrne NotrP 
been a Penn State assistant Paterno said Sarra will take
ning goal in the final minute of 

seals his status as the
Dam<> goals 
since 1979. over some of the administra­
regulation or overtime in seven 

favorite to replace the 73­
during thP 
Ganter played fullback on tive load, giving Paterno
year-old Paterno whfrn he
years-since Matt Osiecki fou~d

split at Ohio 
one of Penn State's first more time to coach.
the net with 55 seconds left m 
retires.

State on 
Paterno-led teams in the late Two former Lions captains
overtime to give the Irish a 5-4 

"People should not read too
Feb. 4-5. 
1960s, then joined the staff join the staff. Al Golden. an
much into this thing, as far
win at Kenl State on Feb. 14,

Carlson's Carlson 
as graduate assistant in assistant coach at Boston
1992. Since that time, Notre 

as Fran being my successor,"
power-play 
1972. He has coached the College for three years,
Dane has been on the losing end 

Paterno said. "I don't think
goal in the opening game of tlrn 
running backs and kickers becomes linebackers coach.
ol' 12 last-minute, game-winning 

it's fair to Frannie or any­
series cut OSL''s lead to 2-1 early 
since 1978, and he took over previously Sandusky's duty.
goals. 

body else on the staff. Fran's
in the third period, before the 
the entire offense in 1984. He Bob White, an assistant ath­
Notre Dame players have been 

done a heck of a job for this
Buckeyes added an tm1pty-netter 
will continue to oversee the letic director at Penn State,
recognized in the weekly CCHA 

program. a great job. I think
for the 3-1 win. 
offense. joins the team to help with
it's only appropriate that he
awards four times .in 1999-2000.

The next night. Carlson assist­
But don't call Ganter or the defensive line and coach
get that title."
with freshmen center Connor

ed on Mit'haPl's Chin 's power­
Bradley "coordinators." special teams.
Dunlop toct. 18) and freshman 

In 1964, Engle, then the
play goal for an early 1-0 lead 
Paterno has pitched those Golden played from 1989­
goaltender Tony Zasowski (Nov. 

Nittany Lions' coach, made
before stinding home Chin's 
titles, saying they foster the 91, and caught the game­
1, Jan. 24) both earning rookie­

Paterno associate head
dcf1ertcd shot in overtime-giving 
kind of "me-first" attitude ho tying touchdown in Penn
ot~the-week honors. 

coach. When Engle retired
the Irish a 2-1 victory with 0;55 
has so steadfastly tried to State's upset over No. 1
Carlson -who has srored or 

the next year, he designated
lP.ft to play. 
remove from the program. Notre Dame in 1990. He
assistnd on five of Notre Dame's 

Paterno his choice as succes­
ThP. thren-point weekend 
"I've always hated that spent a year with the New
12 winning goals this season ­

leaves Carlson atop Notre 
sor. term," he explained. "They England Patriots and also
suddenly has moved into a tie 

Paterno said he is not mak­
Dame's season charts in points, 
assume when he's the coordi­was an assistant coach at
for 10th all-time at Notre Dame 

ing any decisions for the uni­
goals. power-play goals and 
nator. it's his offense or it's Virginia.
with seven career game-winning 

versity for "five years from
game-winning goals. His recent 
his defense. It's gotten to the White played on Paterno's
goals (just seven players have 

now." But he said, "certainly
heroics include scoring two huge 
point where it takes away national championship teams
totaled 10-plus. with Brian Urick 

Fran would be a great candi­
goals in the 4-3 win over 
from the unity of your staff." in 1982 and 1986, then rep­
and Dave Poulin sharing the 

date if I were to retire tomor­
Westnrn Michigan on Jan. 21. as 
Paterno announced other resented the school on edu­
record of 13). Carlson's four 
row."

he forced overtinrn by scoring 
changes Monday in the cational matters in
game-winning goals this season 

With Sandusky's retirement
with 1:23 lel't in regulation 
biggest shakeup in years. Washington, D.C., for two
are tied for eighth in the Irish 

before netting the game-winner 
His son, Jay, will coach the years before joining the ath­
record book. became Paterno's most
in the first minute ofovertime. quarterbacks, taking over for letic department in 1994.
senior assistant. 


Interested in "running your own busin~ss" in a challenging, fast-paced environment with unlimited growth ·opponunities? Target headquarters is hiring entry-level Business Analyst Executives for our corporate offices in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota. Join Target executives Cathy David (ND '85) and Paul Burke (ND '98) in the Montgomery Theater at the LaFortune Student Center on February 10th at 7:00 pm for a casual presentation and reception-we'll have treats and prizes! We'll be interviewing for the Business Analyst position on February 11th. Sign up through the Career and Placement Center. 0 TARGET CORPORATE C~~ 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 8, 2000 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Six high school seniors sign letters of intent 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame men's soccer team has signed six high school seniors to national letters of intent. .Joining the Irish in the fall of 2000 will be Filippo Chillemi, Justin Detter, Greg Martin. Devon Prescod, Kevin Hichards and Chad Riley. 
One of the strongest recruit­ing classes in school history. all six players at one time or another have played with their respective youth national teams. 
''This is truly an outstanding class and one of the best in school history," Irish assistant coach Chris Apple says. "The players entering in the fall fill a lot of our needs and strengthen our team in many areas. We've been able to bring in two solid recruiting dasses the last two years giv­ing us more balance and depth at all positions." 
Chillemi. a 5-foot-IO central midfielder. is one of three incoming freshmen who have spent time training with the under-17 national team pool at the Bradenton Academy in Florida. He was selected to the National Soccer Coaches Association of America (NSCA.A) High School and Adidas All-America team in 1999 and earned all-South regional honors as well. In addition. he has been invited to the Elite Soccer Program (ESP) Adidas Camp each of the last three years. 
Chillemi has vast interna­tional experience and has play..ed in several countries. He has been a member of Georgia's Olympic Development Program (ODPI state team since 1994 and the Region Ill squad since 1996. 
Currently playing at Roswell High School in Roswell, Ga.. Chillemi has been a member of the United Quest club team and has helped that team cap­ture three state champi­onships in the last four years. 
"Fillippo gained valuable experience with the youth national team during his resi­dency at Bradenton," Apple says. "He has the ability to change the point of attack from the midfield and is able to get the ball to players in the final third of the field. Filippo's strengths are his ability to possess the ball in the midfield and his solid ball­handling skills." 
Detter. a 6-foot-1 midfield­selection in the spring of '99. er/defender, is an extremely he also is a player with strong versatile athlete. He was a international experience. member of the under-17 and Prescod was a member of the under-16 national team pools under-16 national team pool from 1996-1999 and also in 1996 and was on the ODP played on the Region II team Region 111 team for two years. for three years. Last summer, Prescod 
Detter spent four months attended the ESP Adidas Camp (this past and has August "This is truly an out­played for the through United ()uest
standing class and one of

December) club team for
the best in school history. 

training with several years. the under-17 The players entering in Jn :~8 games national last year with
the fall fill a lot ofour 

team at the United Quest,
needs and strengthen our

Brandenton he was the Academy. needs in many areas." team's leading ",I ustin has scorer with 26 improved goals and 13
Chris Apple

tremendously assists. From over the past Irish assistant coach 1997-99. he 
year," Apple says, "and that is due i.n large part to his residency with the national team. He has a strong physical presence on the field and is extremely strong in the air. One of the assets he will bring to this team next year is his ability to distribute the ball from the central part or the defense." 
Martin, a 5-foot-8 defender. spent 18 months training· at the Brandenton Academy fol­lowing his sophomore year at Plano High School. He was a part-time starter on the under-17 national team that lost in the semifinals of the Youth World Championships in New Zealand. 
Martin has twice earned Parade Magazine All-America honors and was selected to the NSCAA High School All­America team in 1999. 
Martin also has been a member of the Dallas Comets club team for years and helped that squad to a fourth­place finish at the national tournament in 1998. 
"Greg's improvement has come with the international experience he has gained," Apple says. "He is a tough, aggressive defender with strong tackling ab11ity. Greg has the skill and composure to keep possession of the ball, which is something that will benefit our defense next year." 
Prescod. a 5-foot-7 for­ward/midfielder, led his Lassiter High School team in scoring as a junior with 11 goals and 12 assists. An NSCAA All-America honoree and first-team all-county 
How will you start the millennium? 
Advising farmers in Benin Teaching physics in Nepal Planting trees in Mongolia Preventing AIDS in Ecuador 
Film & Information Session • Center for Social Concerns Tuesday, February 8 • 6:00 -7:30 p.m. 
Information Seminar • Lafortune Student Center -Bring a Bag Lunch! Tuesday, February 8 • U:30 a.m. -1:00 p.m. 1 
Interviews • Career Center, Aanner Hall Wednesday & Thursday, February 9 & 10 • 8:30 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
Information Table • Hesburgh Ubrary lobby Monday & Tuesday, February 7 & 8 • 9:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Selecting NOW for summer 2000 departures! 
~ 
For an application, call (800) 424-8580, option 1 -or­visit our Web site www.peacecorps.gov. 

captained that 
squad and led his team to three Georgia Open Cup championships. Prescod also helped his club team to two consecutive semi­final appearances at the Dallas Cup in both '98 and '99. 
"Devon is a truly exiting player to watch," Apple says. "He has the confidence and skill to beat defenders one-on­one and is able to get the ball to players in scoring positions. In addition to his passing abil­ities, he is going to score his share of goals for the team." 
Hichards, a 5-foot-CJ mid­fielder, recently was named to the Bermuda National team. ror the past three years. he has attended St. Andrews College in Aurora, Ontario where his team has been undefeated the past two years. 
"Kevin's promotion Lo the national team in Bermuda is a testament to bis hard work and dedication." Apple says. ''Ile has a tremendous work e~hic on the field and is a sound. technical player. One of Kevin's greatest assets is his quickness in the open Geld." 
Rilev. a 5-foot-8 midfielder, is a native of Houston, Tex. who has been living since August in Weybridge, England. He currently is play­ing for Walton & Herscham club team there and also has trained with Fulham Portsmouth, one of the top youth club teams in England. 
A member of the under-18 nati.onal team pooL he played for two years at Cypress Springs High School where he earned All-Greater Houston area first-team honors. Riley served as captain of the Region III ODP team in Houston. He also has been a member of the Houston Hurricanes club team for sev­eral years. 
"Chad possesses the unique ability to break down defenses because of his vision and pass­ing skills," Apple says. "He is a strong dribbler in the open field and an excellent finisher around the goal." 


ONCampu• 
Jlffliorl'am1tWu~ Special f=(DfflAnj 17-ll. 2000 
Come earfy; stay rate, same price! 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms 
available for your parents. Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent. Whether you stay Two, three, or foll' nijjlts. Rooms m-e availabJe Thursday through Sunday·. 
For reservations, caU 21~1-7512­


LaFortune Student Center Room 312 


Friday: Noon -12:45 P.M. 
Closed :M::eeting 

Contact: 1-7970 for details 
__,....____________________+.....-----.. 
. '' ec~----..... ........,--,,..-·------··""""-------------------1 
Tuesday, February 8, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MLB 
Indian tribe to sponsor Pads 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

An Indian tribe Lhat runs a casino in San DiPgo County will hn the title sponsor ol' the San Diego Padres' 2000 season. 
It's b~lievnd to be the first time a major lnague lranchise has sold such a sponsorship. The Sy!'uan tribe will pay more than $l.5 mil­lion. with some of the money going directly to tlw Padres and the rnst going to radio and TV adv_nrtising. two sources familiar with the nego­tmtwns told The Associ,1ted Press on condition of anonymity. 
San Diego's season will be marketed much like a bowl game or golf' tournament is. A logo re_ading "Padres 2000, presented by Sycuan" will bt: used on club publications. at the ball­park and in advertising. 
ThP logo, which will include the team's Swinging Friar mascot and palm trees -sever­al palm trees are just bnyond the outlield fence at Qualcomm Stadi11m -will not be worn on the players' uniforms. 
Padres president Larry Lucchino wouldn't confirm the exact amount, but said Monday it was "an attractive dr,al for us, and a gigantic ('Xposure for them." 
Lucchino said the deal is acceptable under baseball's rules because Sycuan's casino does not have sports-book betting. Sycuan and two other tribes with gaming operations, Viejas and Barona, have had prior sponsorships with the Padres, although on a much smaller basis. 
"We lovr, this one," said Lucchino. who also helped pioneer exotic road trips in recent years, with his team making two treks to Monterrey, Mexico, and one to Honolulu. "We think of it as a cutting edge advertising arrangement. It's part of an aggressive effort on our part to find new revenue streams wher­ever we can because of our status in the base­ball hierarchv." 
The Pa~res' say they have sustained operating losses since software mogul John Moores bought the team in December 1994, with Lurchino as a minority partner. 



Bball 
continued from page 24 
ing 9.3 points per game and 7.~ rebounds per contest. is coming off a big game at Georgetown. 
The Wildcats knocked off the Hoyas, 72-69, in their last outing. The Wildcats were playing without starting point guard Bobby Smith, who was suspended indefinitely for vio­lating a team rule. Jermaine 

Grants available through the Nanovic Institute for European Studies 

Undergraduate Student Research Travel Grants: 
Four $3,000 grants (one is specifically designated for East-Central Europe and Russia) are intended to support students who need to spend time at libraries and archives in Europe that have materials pertinent to their research projects. All undergraduates who will be returning to Notre Dame for the 2000-2001 academic year are eligible to apply. 
Application deadline: March 27'11, 2000 
Graduate Student Research Travel Grants: 
Three $3,000 grants are intended to support graduate-students who need to spend time at libraries and archives in Europe that have materials pertinent to their research projects. Preference will be given to 
those students gathering information for their dissertation. 
Application deadline: March 27'\ 2000 
Faculty Research Travel Grants: 
Three grants up to $4,000 each will be awarded for projects that deal with European issues. Preference 
will be given to those proposals that require travel to Europe. These grants can be used for summer 
research or for research during the 2000-2001 academic year. 
Application deadline: March 2711', 2000 
Graduate Fellowship: 
The Nanovic Institute will award one graduate Fellowship of up to $15,000 plus travel expenses for research in Europe for the academic year 2000-2001. Applicants in all disciplines of the humanities and social sciences are eligible. Preference will be given to those students working on contemporary European topics, needing support for dissertation research in Europe, and able to explain why funding is 
needed at this time. 
Application deadline: March 27'\ 2000 
For more information contact: Phone: (219) 631-5253 
The Nanovic Institute E-mail: ND.Nanovic.l@nd.edu 
419 Flanner Hall Medley scored just three points in his place. Sales led the way for Villanova with 17 points. 
_Not~e Dame is currently sixth m the conference, while Villanova is eighth. The Irish need a win tonight if they hope to keep their NCAA Tournament hopes alive. 
After the Villanova game, Notre Dame returns home to take on defending national charnpion Connecticut. before traveling to Seton Hall on 
Feb. ] 9. 
Got 
Sports? 
Call 

----·--T""'. -------­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, rebruary 8, 2000 
WOMEN'S TENNIS Irish doubles fall early at Rolex 
By KFVIN BERCHOU 
Spom Writer 
Some things just aren't meant to be. 
The women's tennis team's f'oray into the Bolcx '.\lational Intercollegiate Tennis Championships ended abrupt­ly as both doubles pairings lost early. 
The 10th-ranked tandem of junior Michelle Dasso and sophomore Hecky Varnum could not rally from a first-set deficit and fell 6-3. 4-6, 6-1 to California's Claire Curran and ,\nita Kurimay in the opening round. 
The coupling of junior Kimberly Guy and freshman Katie Cunha fared no better, dropping their first match {6­
3. 6-4) to Lindsay Blau and Michelle Gough of Arizona. 
Both losses, however. came against sound competitors; California's Curran and Kurimay and Arizona's Blau 
and Gough advanced to the finals. 
Guy and Cunha were unable to s,dvagl' any pride i.n the consolalion round as they dropped a tough match 16-3, 5-7, 6-4) to Southern Methodist's Lindsay Bruce and Megan Hussell. 
Despite the losses, head coach Jay Louderback was not dissatisfiPd with his team's effort. 
"I thought we played pretty well." Louderback said. "Unl'ortunatelv we were in a tough draw. b·ut I thought we fought hard." 
Dasso and Varnum qua!ilied for the Holex invite with their victory in the Intercollegiate Tennis Association Midwest Hegion Doubles finals l.ast fall. while Guy and Cunha were selected on the basis or lheir No. 15 national ranking. 
The Irish women look to rebound when regular season play rnsnrrrns Friday against the Terrapins of Maryland. 

CLUB SPORTS 
Women ski team captures first place 
Special co The Observer 
The powerful one-two punch of Nikki Douillet and Molly Munsterer catapulted the women of the ski club to another first-place team finish last weekend at Schuss Mountain in Michigan. 
Douillet captured the slalom event, with Munsterer finish­ing a close second. The two reversed their finish in the giant slalom Sunday. 
The entire women's team fared well. Jen Caswell placed fourth in the slalom and fifth in the giant slalom. Ellen Block captured eighth and ninth, respectively, and Elisha Hines finished top 10 in the slalom. 
The team far outdistanced its league opponents. Michigan State, Grand Valley, Michigan and Western Michigan. The lrish are poised to capture the MCSA divisional champi­the Irish who dethroned the three-time champion Herl Hawks last year in the champi­onships. 
In the second round, Notre Dame defeated Ohio University, 15-6, as Jen Beranek tallied four goals and Liz Parolin three. 
Liz Kuzniar found the back of the net six times as Bowling Green fell victim to Notre Dame 15 -8 in the third round. 
Notre Dame closed out com­petition by handling host Western Michigan 11-1. 
This weekend, the Irish will look to even the score at the Miami Invitational, featuring a strong 12-team field. The club opens against Illinois and Maryland in the first two rounds. 
Gymnastics 
The gymnastics club opened 

onships this week. _.,-",:isiits season at the Miami Cup 
Despite the men's team's''' this weekend with solid show­last-place finish, freshman ings. Mike Ryan's performance por-Strong performances pro-tends a promising. pelled the men's team to a 
Ryan was third after his first third-place standing in a run. but wiped out on the sec-strong field. ond run to drop to 14th. Eric Captain Jason Miller earned Hansen and Alex Paul were fifth all-around, based on his next for the Irish iJl the Giant third-place finish in the high Slalom, finishing 23rd and bar. fourth in tho rings and 24th, respectively. sixth in the vault. 
Mickey McGarry claimed lhe only first-place finish for Notre

Water polo 
Dame. winning with a standoutThe women's water polo club effort in the vault.

rebounded from a stinging 12­Ryann Cox's second spot in6 opening loss to Miami (Ohio} 
the bars and Erin Henry's

to rout the rest of the field in 
third place in the vault andthe Midwest Conference 

fifth in the bars highlighted theHegionals. 

women's competition.

Laurie Healy's three goals The Irish will next competewere not enough as the Red 
in Purdue's Golden GripsHawks of Miami garnered a 

Classic on feb. 19. 

measure of revenge. It was 
Recycle The Observer 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Siemon, Ratay earn honors 
Special to The Ohserver 
Junior forwur<l Kelley Siemon has been named the 13ig East co-player of the week and freshman guard Alicia Hatav has been select­ed the Big· East co-rookie of the week after 1'rnding the fifth-ranked Notre Dame to a 2-0 lasl wtiek wilh a 90-60 win over Providfrnce and 72­59 victory over18th-ranked Boston College. 
Siflmon, who shares the award with Georgetown's Katie Smrcka-Duffy. is a first­time honoreo. She averaged 
17.0 points and 10.5 rebounds last week. Against Providence, Siemon sc<)red a career-high 23 points and grabbed seven rebounds. In tho Boston College contest. she recorded her first dou­blP-double or the season and second ol' her career as she scored 11 poinls and grabbed a personal high 14 rnbounds. She shot 15-of'-20 from the field in the two games anrl also played a career-high 36 minutes against the Eagles. 
liatay shares co-rookie-ol'­the week recognition with Mandy \'Vittenmyer of Pittsburgh and earns the honor for the fourth time this season. She averaged 13.0 points and 2.0 rebounds as she scornd 14 points and grabbed three rebounds against Providence and then followed that game with a 12-point and six-rebound performance against the Eagles. 
Notre Dame is currently 19-2 on the season, 10-0 in the BIG EAST, and has tied a school-record with 15 con­secutive victories. 

Oelfv-e~i,r/ Tk£L+t Pizza.I [3.©tn~ ~ui.l© © . @©[k 71m@~(f)GlW99  
Anytime Anytime you call betweenyou call between 11~' 10:30-12:595:30 & 7:00,r~,9 9 the price of your the price of your 2 large 1 large 1 topping 6 __ topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r­--ruiictispeeiai---7 : Small 1 Topping 1 12 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ND store L_____$5.9;! _____ JNorth Village Mall271--1177 271-PAPA  


Tuesday, February 8, 2000 The Observer . TODAY 
FOURTH AND INCHES  TOM KEELEY  
A. SQv1R~t Go~\.. fo~ 11RE <.OlL.€1., RIE~E\  A~Bt.R, IT:S 11\V<.,l\ MORE '1'W-N -n-,~T. C.l\\>lv~ 1N6 A SG.V1!i!.REL \~lll'T #t\.L "TIH~l £M,'T'  IT ,~l(.E.$ (_¢\Jl::.,._~e. n i 11\\;1:.S SY..11.l.. ,, -r ~~Es s""~'II.T.S  f  
Fox TROT  BILLAMEND  

So WHAT IS THIS, EXACTLY? I  "SEEF STu.'' \  THEN THAT'S WHAT tT •S. \_  SOMEONE SPELLED IT WRON(;.  THAT'S OIC. WE PRo8A8l.'Y MADE IT WRONG. '  WHOEVER SAit> HON• ESTY WAS REFRESHING... W'  WAIT. YOU FoR6oT YOUR KoJlN MUPtilN. \_  

CROSSWORD 
page 23 JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

What was it Morn said about buying your own car? Oh yeah, ... "it builds character." 
beam.1@nd.edu 
61 Jai 62 Lute shape 63 Like a sweep's 
uniform 64 End-of-class signal 65 Pound of poetry 
DOWN 
1 Triangular sail 2 Job order notation 3 Definitely a flunking score 4 Founder of Stoicism 5 Like cabs on a rainy day 6 "Serpico" 
director Sidney 7 Resting on 8 Where the 
Amazon rises 9 To no avail 
10_-foot oil 
11 Pickle purveyor 
12 Logical start? 


HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON lHIS 
DAY: Ted Koppel, Jack Lemmon, 
Mary Steenburgen, James Dean, 
Lana Turner, Audrey Meadows, 
Marc Robertson, Nick Nolte, Gary 
Coleman 
Happy Birthday: Your interest in the unique and unusual will lead you in all different directions this year. Your creative ability will be noticed, and opportunities to devel­op these skills will be present. Your generosity will lead to all sorts of new connections that will aid you in getting ahead as long as you don't allow anyone to take advantage of your kindness. Your numbers: 13, 16, 27, 31, 33, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Romance will flourish while on plea­sure trips or social gatherings. You will be able to discuss your desires readily. Do not be fooled by evasive answers. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If you use your wit and creative talent at work, advancement and recogni­tion will be yours. Do not mix busi­ness with pleasure if you wish to avoid complications. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Busi­ness or pleasure trips will be success­ful. You can learn a great deal if you listen. Do not disagree with employ­ersor clients. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 2.2): Dead-end projects have already cost you too much. Let go of past un­pleasant memories. Legal matters may cause grief if you naven't pre­pared yourself for losses. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): New romantic relationships will evolve through friends, relatives or neigh­bors. Get involved in community 
EUGENIA LAST 

functions to expand your circle of friends. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Mat­ters pertaining to your career will be progressive and to your advantage. You should deal with superiors and make them aware of your intentions. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Invest­ments will prove to be costly today. Put your time and energy into self-­improvement projects that will be conducive to meeting new mends or lovers.000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Pri­vate affairs may have preoccupied your time as of late. Anger and dis­appointment regarding your resi­dence will only cause disruptions in your personal plans. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22.-Dec. 21): You can decorate or renovate at home today, but you should try to solicit the help of all who reside there. Don't go ahead and make changes without the approval of others. 000 
. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take heed of the advice given by friends, but make up your own mind. You may want to spend some time re-evaluating your motives. 0000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take a good look at your personal papers. Update your insurance poli­·cies, wills and other legal documents. Keep the changes to yourself as someone may get upset. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your emotional instability may be due to the way your partner has been treat­ing you. Try to sit down and talk openly and honestly about your concerns. 00 
ACROSS 1 Charlie Parker's 
music 5 High-five sound 9 "Gunga Din" 
setting 14 Fortuneteller's 
beginning 15 Adorable 16 Has to have 17 It has a broad 
side 18 Cupid 19 Lowlands, to 
poets 20 Black eye 23 Do something 24 _ Master's 
Voice 25 It goes from C 
toe 29 Analogous 31 " 
Rosenkavalier" 
34 Detergent target 35 Rose's Broadway beau 36 Lavish attention 
(on) 37 Red-eye 40 "Mrs. Bridge" 
author Connell 41 Abbr. in many company 
names 42 Lancelot's attire 43 Room to relax 
in 44 Peter or Paul 45 On pins and 
needles 46 Prior to, to Prior 47 Genetic inits. 48 Pinkeye 56 Burn soothers 57 Carry on 58 Opposed 60 Color faintly 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE

13 Org. 21 Poe called it "grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt and ominous· 22 Chop shop 
• supplier 25 Gawked at 26 Hunger for 27 Moon of Saturn 28 "Right on!" 29 Dislike, and 
then some 30 Do-it­yourselfers' needs 
31 Doctrine 32 Cultural values 33 Take another shot 
35 Taj Mahal site 
36 Awful 
38 "Ghosts• playwright 39 Island west of Maui 44 Reliable 45 Show for the first time 46 Tape deck button 

47 Letterman, to 51 Grouch Leno 52 Whopper 48 "Memory" 53 End of a dash musical 
54 Don Juan's 49 Mixed bag mother 
55 Top banana with a knife, e.g. 59 Author Levin 50 Eating peas 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Birthday Baby: You have a vivid imagination and a creative leaning that will lead you in all sorts of interesting djrections throughout your life. You are curious and will never hesitate to try something that is new or different. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
0 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 

R~~ 
,
CONGRATULATIONS T. THE TEAM . F"
LRlE/Hf&Hf 

KEOUGH / WELSH FAMILY NIGHT OLYMPICS XIV CHAMPIONS!
LYMPIC 
A~
2 D
. . 

>~t1t'()f>w,t,UHAe4 ~-THANKS TO ALL WHO PARTICIPATED, WE WERE ABLE 
--ST, Jas:~:~:~:Ty ::E:.~~ ~::MPICS! 

f 
1 ....,.
I 
Award winners 
Kelly Siemon and Alicia Ratay were honored by the Big East conference for their 
i outstanding play last week . 
•t 
I PORTS
I page 21 
O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, February 8, 2000 

MEN'S TENNIS 

Sachire falls to Andersson in Rolex quarters 


By RACHEL BIBER Sports Writer 
Hyan Sachire pulled the best aspects of his game together to advance to the quarterfinals o/' the Bolex National Intercollegiate Indoor Championships, only to be halted by top-seeded and sec­ond-ranked Daniel Andersson of Virginia Commonwealth 16-:1, 6-21. 
Sar.hire was just one stop on Andersson 's road to the championship, which he took away in convincing style with a 6-4, 6-2 victory over Florida's Jeff Morrison. 
Dcspitf' Andersson's hot streak, Sachire stood as a formidable opponent against the top seed. In 
of play and strong desire throughout the tournament. 
"I didn't really play quite as well as I was capable of [against Andersson]." Sachire said. "But overall I was pretty pleased with the way I played. It was a good tournament." 
Sachire sunk into a deep hole quickly in his quarterfinal match against Andersson. but he refused to fade away easily. 
Down 4-6, 0-4. Sar.hire did not let Andersson walk awav with the match. He pulled himself together and finished with some of his best tennis of the day. 
"Hyan came out a little off his game and allowed Andersson to get ahead," 
Bayliss said. "But I 
like the wav he fin­

three of the pair's 
"/ didn't really play as well as I ished the match ­
last four meetings, he could have just
was capable of[against
Sachire proved vic­hung his head at the torious. Sachire Andersson]. But overall I was end. I think he 
defeated Andersson pretty pleased with the way I learned some things 
in the 1997 NCJ\A there."
played."
l'irst round as a The Irish return to freshman, in the dual-matrh play this 1997 !Ti\ All­Ryan Sachire afternoon against America 11 the 18th-ranked
men's tennis player
Championship third round as a sopho­
morn and in the l 999 Holex National 
Indoors consolation singles final as a junior. 
Andersson 's only win against Sachiro came in the 1998 Holex National Indoors consolation !>inglcs semifinal. 
Before bowing out of the tournam1rnt. 14th-ranked All-i\mnican Sachire posted an impressive win over Louisiana State University's 13th-ranked Tom I-land (6-3. 6-4) in the second round. 
"I thought LSachirel played extremely well against lland." Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. "In order to win the match, he had to return the serve with precision and power, and he did. He played one of his better matches of the year." 
Sachire overcame a three-year curse by posting a win in tho first round of the tournament -a feat that had eluded him in his first three appearances of the col­legiate grand slam. His quarterfinal showing marked his most successful trip to the Rolex National Intercollegiates, and Sac.hire showed an impressive style 
Kenturky Wildcats, 

looking to improve on tlrnir 2-2 record. The Wildcats post an impressive lineup. vvith seven of their top eight players returning from last season. 
The Irish almost snuck awav with vic­tory last year against the Wildcats. and seek to avenge the close loss. 
Sachire. now 15-6 in singles play. will match up against Kentucky's Carlos Drada, who also made it to the quarterli­n als of the Rolex National lntercollegiates. Sachire squeaked by Drada in their previous meeting, and expects to encounter a close battle when they meet in dual-match play. 
The Notre Dame lineup has taken a few hits lately with injuries to key players, but a healthy squad against Kentucky could help Notre Dame gain the needed edge over a tough opponent. 
"I expect I Kentucky] will be one of the top 10 in the country at the end of the year," Bayliss said. It's always a close match with them. but with luck we might have all our guys. which will help us as well." 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame travels to Philly to take on Villanova 
• Irish guards return home to  Easti have struggled nn the road all season, posting just a 2-7 record away from the  Villanova is the only team in the Big East that Noire Dame has not beaten since joining  scoring and rebounding. Murphy is f'ourth in the country in scoring with 23.6  The contest will be a home­coming for three Notre Dame guards; Jimmy Dillon, Martin  
Philadelphia By BRIAN KESSLER Sporrs Editor  Joyce Center. Villanova (12­8 . 3. 5) has won six straight against Notre  Men's Basketball Notre Dame at Villanova . Where: First Union Center,  the confernncc five years ago. Last season, the Wildcats defeat­ed the Irish 85­58 at the First  poinls per game and sixth in rebounding with 10.7 rebounds per contest. The sophomore sensation is the only player in the country cur­rently to be ranked among the  Ingelsby and Matt Carroll all hail from the Philadelphia area. Villanova is led by Malik Allen who puts up 13.8 points per game and grabs 6.<J  
After a devastating loss to Pittsburgh on Sunday, the Notre Dame basketball team must get back on track with a  Dame and leads the series, 11-10. The Wildcats  Philadelphia, Penn. . When: 8 p.m.  Union Center. The Irish will go to battle behind sopho­ top 10 scorers and rebound­ers. Oavid Graves is averaging 12.8 points per contest, and  boards per contest. Brian Lynch and Gary Buchanan are also key players on the offen­sive end for the Wildcats.  
win against Villanova tonight  are  also  2-0  more power for- Carroll is averaging 9. 7. Dillon  Brooks Sales, who is averag­ 
at the First Union Center.  against the Irish  at the First  ward Troy Murphy, who is  is fifth in the conference in  
The  Irish  (14-<J,  5-4  Big  Union Center.  among the national leaders in  assists per game (5. 7).  see BBALL/page 21  

Track

Kentucky vs. Pittsburgh Tuesday, 3: 15 p.m. Wednesday, 7 p.m. ar Buder
SPORTS 
Friday-Saturday 
ATA 

ar Villanova vs. Albion vs. Nebraska-Omaha Tuesday, 8 p.m. Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
GLANCE SM 




