
ND salutes MLK 
Power struggle 
Although the life ofMartin Luther King Jr. was 
In tlze worst storm since Hurricane Opal, more 

Monday
celebrated last Monday by most ofthe nation, 
than halfa million Georgia residents struggle 
Notre Dame devotes an entire week to his legacy. 
with power outages. 
JANUARY 24, 
Scene . pages 14-15 
WorldNation . page 5 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 68 

MEETING AND GREETING 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Clinton honors Hesburgh with Congressional Gold Medal 
By LAURA SELLINGER 
News Writer 
President Clinton signed legislation on Dec. 9, 1999 to award University president emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh the nation's highest honor bestowed upon civil­ians, the Congressional Gold Medal. 
Now Public Law 106­153, the Father Theodore Hesburgh Congressional Gold Medal Act authorizes the President to give the medal to Hesburgh in recognition for his many outstanding contribu­tions to civil rights, high­er education, the Catholic Church and the nation. 


Hesburgh 

Congressman Tim Roemer introduced legislation in the House of Representatives last May and sought the support of his 292 colleagues to cosponsor the legislation. 
"The Congressional Gold Medal honors Americans accomplished in one area -but Fater Hesburgh has three fields of integrity and honor. He has made outstanding con­tributions in the fields of religion, higher education and civil rights -that is what 
caused me to push this award," Roemer said. 
"I believe that this is the most appropri­ate time for Congress and tho entire nation to join me in recognizing this remarkabl11 man and living legend of freedom in AmArica," RoAmer said. 
Hoerner said that he considers Hesburgh's public service career tu be as distinguished as his many contributions to education. Hesburgh served as Notre Dame's president froml 952-1987. Holding 15 presidential appointments, Hesburgh's involvement ranged far and wide. 
He was a charter member of the United States Commission on Civil Rights from its establishment in 1957 and chaired the commission from 1969 to 1972. He was also awarded the Medal of Freedom by Lyndon Johnson in 1964, another one of the nation's highest civilian honors. 
During the 1980s, Hosburgh was also actively involved in a private initiative to unite international scientists and religious leaders in condemning nuclear weapons. Hesburgh also helped organize a meeting of 58 world-class scientists in Vatican City in 1982. This meeting not only called for the elimination of nuclear weapons, but it also brought together leaders of six faiths 
see MEDAL/page 4 


Snite displays colorful Cuban art exhibition 
. On-campus museum welcomes art influenced by life on the island nation. 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
The sound ol' Cuban music may come as a surprise to someone ente. ring the normal­ly quiet Snite Museum. 
llowever, the upbeat music 
provides an appropriatf1 accompaniment to the vibrant colors of many of the paintings within the gallery. 
The music and paintings are part or an exhibit at The Snitc entitled 
"Breaking 
BarriPrs: Selections from Cuban artists exiled from their native country due to the atrocities of Fidel Castro's Communist rule. The govern­ment suppresses individual f'rcedoms and punishes dissen­sion. and official artists are restricted in what they can create. 
"There are a lot of images of despair," Costa said. adding many of the artists attempt to deal with "being Cuban but not being able to live in Cuba." 
Some of the artists left Cuba as children, while others fled as adults. Most of the 55 
"The works deal with contemporary issues ... and at the same time deal with issues ofartists who have fled." 
Gina Costa Marketing and Public Affairs Specialist, Snite Museum 
the Museum of Art Jiort Lauderdale Contemporary Cuban CulltH'.tion." 
''The images am all very large, lots of bright colors." said Gina Costa. public rela­tions and marketing specialist at the Snitc. 
The exhibition celebrates 
artists fea­tured are now living in Europe and the 
u . s .. 
including many in southern Florida. 
There is a great deal of variety in the collec­tion, which 

contains paintings, sculptures, photography, video and instal­1ation. Not all of the work reflects a significant Cuban influence. 
"The works deal with con­temporary issues ... and at the same lime deal with issues of' artists who have fled," Costa said. 

The Snitc arranged the work based on themes. For exam­ple, one gallery focuses on humor. including a piece that contains parts of a broken Kentucky Fried Chicken sign. Other galleries focus on more serious issues such as religion and life in Cuba. 
Artist Glexis Novoa came to The Snite for its opening and drew on the wall in one of the galleries. 
American-born photograph­er Andres Serrano, who is also featured in the exhibit, earned fame in tho U.S. when his con­trnversial "Piss Christ" raised questions about his funding from the National Endowment for the Arts. 
As its title suggests, tho exhibit is intended to break barriers by not limiting the artists who are included. Two artists in the exhibit, Serrano and Coco Fusco, are second­generation Cubans not born on the island. Two photographers featured. Juan Carlos Alom 
see SNITE/page4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, January 24, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Ode to Moog 
I guess toughness comes \Vith the job when you are the younger sister of two sports­crazed brothers. 
My sister Meghan learned pretty quickly lo shake off bumps and bruis­
es growing up, playing sports in the yard with my brothf'r and me. Moog. as my brother and I call her, had probably gone to more soccer games before she turned 1 than most people attend in their lifetime. 
Soon she grew older and 


mv brother and I watched 
her di>velop into a fine ath­
Mike Connolly 
lete in her own right. 
But then last September. she startt'd getting really associate tired. She would come sports editor home from si:hool and field hockey practice completely exhausted and complaining of being cold. At first we thought nothing of it. It was her first year in high school and she probably just wasn't used to the tougher practices. But Moog didn't get better. She was still cold and tired no matter how much rest slrn got. 
So mv mother took her to the doctor The diagnosis wasn't good. My sister had an immune system disease known as lupus. Her body was attacking itself Unable lo distin­guish between the threatening particles and her own cells, her immune system was destroying her blood cells and causing her anemia. 
The doctors were amazed that she was able to even play field hockey. let alone start and be among the scoring leaders on her team. When field hockey season ended, she exchanged her cleats for a pair of' sneakers and became the point guard for her basketball team without missing a beat. 
Every day. Moog went to school and practke and then came home and slept for hours. One minute she would be hustling up and down Lhe basketball court, the next she would bare­ly havP enough energy to walk to the i:ar with­out help. 
Week after werk she went to doctor after doctor and specialist after specialist who all seemed to say different things. 
But Moog never complained. She never questioned why the disease chose lwr. Without a complaint. she took her pills and submitted to numerous tests and blood draws by inept nurses. some vvho couldn't even find a vein. 
l' d like to say she got her toughness from my brother and I, but I know she really got it from my morn. Throughout this whole ordeal, my mom has fought to make sure my sister gets the best treatment possible. 
From battling New York traffic to get my sis­ter to sper,ialists in the city to arguing with school administrators who refuse to resched­ule tests so my sister can go to the doctor. this disease has been just as tough on my mother as it bas been on mv sister. 
But the light at the end of the tunnel may be in sight. The right mixtures of drugs may have finally been found and the worst could be over. 
Some people say professional athletes are tough, but I know they have nothing on my mom or my sister. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not nece:;sarily £hose ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Mike Vanegas Tim Logan 
Graphics 
Erin Pirourek 

Joe Mueller 
Sports 

Lab Tech 
Mike Connolly 

Kevin Dalum 

Viewpoint 
Colleen Gaughen 

Tl,< Obse,ver (USPS 5Y9 2-4000) is published Mol\J.,y through hid.1y excepr during f'X,1m ,md ,·,1e,ninn ~-.criods. ·n1e Observer is a mcmbtr of die' A~s,,ci,Hed Press. All reproduclirin rights .1re reserv~d. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday 
. "The Dream through Fr. . "Seven Hinges of . "Colors of the World:" . Internship Fair: Joyce 
Hesburgh's Eyes:" History:" Lncturn by Panel discussion. Center, North Dome, 
LaFortune Ballroom. author Thomas Cahill, Laf<'ortune Ballroom. 6 p.m. noon-4 p.m. 
7 p.m. lfrisburgh Library . "II Postino:" . Prayer Service: "Walk in 
. Casablanca: Anrnmberg Auditorium, 7 p.m. International rilm the Light of Christ." 
Auditorium. Snite . Date Rape Presentation: Festival. Montgomery Keenan-Stanford Chapel. 
Museum, 7 p.m. 102 OeBartolo, 7:30 p.m. Theatre, 8 p.m. 7 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
State Rep challenges cap on Bonfire lawsuits 
COLLECE STATION, Texas 
civil lawsuiLi;. 
State Representative·Hon Wilson, "A state shouldn't be immune from D-Houston, who says Texas A&M lawsuits even if it's legally at fault. University is responsible for the 1999 Sovereign immunity is an idea whose Aggie Bonliro collapse, is challnnging time has come and gorrn, and tlw uni­the current lia.bilily limit on possible versity shouldn't hide behind it," lawsuits against the University. Wilson said. 
"I thought about the families ol' the Though Wilson has not yet deter­students who were killed or injurnd, mined an appropriate figure for the and I think tho state should provide liability i:ap to indude in his legisla­some economic compensation for the tion. he said it will be substantially tragedy that occurred," Wilson said. higher than $500,000. 
places cap
Current law a of' to be split among all tlrn plaintiffs in Wilson also said the university is 
$500,000 that units of Texas stalfi responsible for the Bonfire accident
any Bonlir0-related lawsuits. 
government, like the university, can whether or not the investigation finds
Wilson said he plans to introduce a 
be made to pay should they be found instances of negligence or not.
bill. or a constitutional amendment if' 
guilty of negligence in a lawsuit. "It was a University sponsornd
needed, to increase the liability cap in 
"Five hundred thousand [dollars! is event, and that's enough for me."
the 2001 session of the Texas 
pitifully small compared to the lives Wilson said. 
Legislature.

that were lost and the cost of the Ellyn Perrone, vice president for
Wilson dismisses the idea of' "sover­medical care." Wilson said. Governmental Affairs at A&M,
eign immunity," the legal doctrine 
Ile added that since the cap is "per declined to comment on Wilson's pro­
that protects state governments from 
5 Day South Bend l<'orecast 
AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions :mu high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast !or noon, Monday, Jan. 24. 

Monday {)-23 17 Tuesday ~ 28 15 
·.;.· ,:: 

Wednesday q 28 14
•:;.;::·,::=· 


Thursq.ay q2a 16 
............ ........ ..........
·:·.r·.::::• 

It) 2000 AecuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY PreUIJffl:
Frida'y t~ ,(J. 31 18 
® © . ~c:ll . EZJ~ t:)~~Wf 
High Low Shower• Rain T•1torm1 Flurries Snow tea Sunhy Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
f.. ?···'·.S__,,.,._._,,/~, '··=..) 
ocr,urrence," any award would haw 
Protests result in three arrests 
EVANSTON.Ill 

Three peopll\ -none of them students -were detained for fighting on Sheridan Hoad outside the Technological Institute as protests against white supremacist Matt llale turned violent Friday, said Al Cubbage. vice prnsident for university relations. Police escorted llale from Tech "for his own safety" at 2:20 
p.m. af'ter the leader of the World Churi:h of the Creator announced he had nine or 10 signatures from NU stu­dents in a petition for official university religious recog­nition. About 200 students, faculty and community members rallied at Tech to voice their opposition to Hale's racist message. Cubbage also said there is no proof that Hale has a student contact at NC. Hale told The Daily on Wednesday a male Northwestern student may publicly announce himself as I I ale's host sometime before his visit. Ilale received a bloody lip in the si:u!Tic and was escorted to an unmarked police car after appearing for about 20 minutes. The leader of the racist organization did not set foot on campus, but stood on the strip or grass between Sheridan Hoad and the sidewalk in front of Tech. 



LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

posal. 

Bill could ban opposite sex visitors 
TUCSON; Ariz. 
Under a bill proposed this week by HPp. Jpan McGrath, H-Glendalo, students living in University ol' Arizona residence halls would not be allowed to havP guests of the opposite sox in their rooms. except for immediate family. She said when she was a student at Arizona State University in the late 1950s, students had "lots of' places to meet" outside of' their dorm rooms, which she described as "bedrooms." She also said dorm rooms underwent a "white glove" inspection each week. but now, no one cares how students main­tain the state's property. This is the fourth bill McGrath bas submitted for this term of the Arizona State Legislature to regulate universities. The other propos­als would require Arizona universities to install or sub­scr~be to Internet filters on all campus i:omputnrs. allow students to use campus Internet connnctions only for a "specifii: educational purpose," and requirP "acr,urate and complete" course descriptions in univer­sity syllabi and catalogs. McGrath said the bill regard­ing i:ourse descriptions is going to be replaced with a bill by another representative. 
V,a A:.:.oc1atad ProBS  
Q,~,G_cf.+'6}.Q ~ Showers Twstorms Rain Flurries Snow lco Sunny Via Associated Prass Gtsphi¢1Nel  ~ Pt. Cloudy  u Cloudy  Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  40 40 32 19 62  24 21 27 16 38  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  65 38 19 36 38  49 27 14 28 24  Penland Sacramento St. Louis Tampa Wash DC  46 59 33 69 40  39 50 23 48 25  


Monday, January 24, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



t.SP4 N.q 
SUMMER IN SPAIN PROGRAM MAY 27 -JUNE 27, 2000 EL EscoRIAL MADRID 
Program Information AJJ Cou~es are J Credus 
• Comparative Citizenship • Conflicc of Laws 
• International Environmental Law • International Debtor-Creditor Relations 
• The program has been approved by the ABA 
For More Information: 
• 
Complete the coupon below, dip and mail co: .\fariela Torres. St. Thomas Law School-Spain Program '16400 .NW 32 Ave. ~!iami. FL 33054 

• 
Visit our web site: W'9.W.stu.edu/1awschooL spain/spaintex:.hrrn. 


• Email us: mrorresisru edu, 
• Call: Mariela Torres at 305.623.2325 or Fax us a request at 305.623.2390 
.......................................................... 
SVMMER IN SPAIN PROGRAM 
While high blood pressure may have no symptoms, it does have 
May 27 -June 2"'1, 2000 El Ea<:orial -Madrid 
consequences. Like increasing your risk of heart attack and stroke. 

ND Law prof publishes book on Supreme Court 
across generational lines, with 
Special to The Observer senior justices Oliver Holmes and 
Joseph McKenna joining the 
Tho University of' South Carolina younger Brandeis in forging fresh Press has puhlishnd a new hook methods of aualvsis by Notre, lJanw La,v School protes­Looking bcyor1d the legal issues s;1r and nolnd l1•gal historian confronted by the Court. Pratt WaltPr Prati. 
examines White's efforts to main­
" T h e tain collegiality among justices, his Sup r om<' rnfusal to use his olTice to support Court Linder needed changes in the Court's ChiPf Justic,i jurisdiction. and his hesitant guid­Edward ance of' the institution into Douglass uncharlf:d legal and constitutional White. J!Jl0-territorv. Pratt concludes that 21," chroni­White's ·style of 11:adership ulti­rl1is a trans­malfily proved less than adequate
Pratt

formation in to meet the challenges of the Am<' r i r. an tumultuous era. · _jurispruunncn that mirrornd tlrn A nrnmber of the Notre Dame widPspread political, Pconomic faculty since 1{)86. Pratt teaches and social uph!:avals of the early legal history, contracts and com­20th century. mercial law. He is also an associ­
\Vhiw's tr•nurP as chief justirn ate dean of the law school and coincidPd with multiplo changes in previously has served as codirec­the linited States, including a tor of the Notre OamP London Law rapid shift from a rural to an Centre and faculty advisor to the urban sociNy. Lhe emergence of moot court program. tlm nation as a world power and Pratt graduated magna cum tlw !'1mctrnent or populist and pro­laude from Vandorbilt University gressive rnforms. in 1968 and as a Rhodes Scholar 
Pratt rticounts the Court's rul­earned his doctorate from Oxford ings ol' tlw ti1m~ and draws partic­University in 1974. He received his ular attention to its struggle to law degree in 1977 from Yale 
rndefine ll~gal vocabulary. lie University, where he served as the shows that tlrn Court found itself articles and book review editor for in the midst or an era wlrnn the the Yale Law Journal. He previ­lPgal meaning of words had to ously wrote "Privacy in Britain" 
shill in ordPr to dPal with runda­and is a member of Phi Beta mental changps in society and Kappa. government. Pratt clerked for Judge Charles 
l'ralt rnli1's on a chronological Clark on the U.S. Court of Appeals rPviPw of thP Court's rulings, for the Fifth Circuit in 1977-78 drawing upon the business within and for U.S. Supreme Court Chief each t11r111 Lo document the instilu­Justice Warren Burger in 1978­tio n's evolution -from strict 79. He taught at Duke University dnductive f'ormalism to studied before joining the Notre Dame fac­inductive reasoning to an acceler­ulty. ated ratP of word change after the While on research leave for the 19"16 appointment of Justice Louis 1998-99 academic year, Pratt Brandeis. Pratt finds that the jus­studied Irish legal history at the tices' linguistic grappling cut National University of Ireland. 

~~ St Thomas University 
~SCHOOL OF IAW 


SMC galleries boast renovations 
sion of college: to foster aes­and Susan Clements exhibited By NELLIE WILLIAMS thetic appreciation and a mes­their works. Each professor
News Writer 
sage that. this is professional used different techniques and 
space and we value the art styles in the pieces. 
On Friday Lhe newly reno­and their work," Bowles said. '"Weaving a Woman's Life' vated Moreau Galleries. Dorothy and Romy Hammes is an autobiographical, mixed which include the Hammes provided the original Hammes media series investigating the Gallery, the Little Theater Gallery. Jerry and Dorene rituals and roles associated 
Gallery and the Sister Marie Hammes made the renova­with being a middle class Rosaire Extension, were offi­tions in the galleries possible, female in the United States cially recognized. The open­and have supportP.d nearly 80 during the latter half of the ing featured Cecilia Ann causes at the College. 20th century." Bowie's wrote Kelly's "Works on Paper," as Hammes is in her well as exhibits done hy Saint also a mem-artist's Mary's art department focul­ber of the statement.
"It's beautiful. It makes 

tv. Board of SP-thi's
showing and exhibiting

· "It's beautiful," said Trustees I a r g e Johnson Bowles, director of and was on much easier. " wheel of Moreau (;aUeri.es. "It makes the former blue shoes showing and exhibiting much Board of and clay
Johnson Bowles

easier." Regents. h a n d ­
Beginning more than a year "I think director of Moreau Galleries prints ago. the planni1}g and renova­[the renova-attracted tions were completed last tions I came m u c h summer. out terrific. curiosity. One of the most significant It is an example of how well "Lately I have been comingchanges made was to the ceil­this college spends its funds. to terms with a sense of cul­ing that once dropped low in They spend it wisely," said tural memory and I find this the Hammes Gallery. which .Jerry Hammes. strongly reflecting in my was taken out and raised in College president Marilou work,'' he wrote in his state­
order to show larger artwork. Eldred said the Hammes' ment. 
The windows and grates relationship with the College Sister Cecilia Kelly showed 
along the wall were also is unique 20 "Works on Paper." Kelly is 
removed. because no a 1951 graduate of Saint 
and the members of Mary's College and professor
"ft is an example ofhow

w a 1 1 s the Hammes of art emerita. She worked on w e r e well this college spends family have her pieces for more than two resur­attended the years.
its funds." 

faced with College. "For the past several years, drywall. "Without the attributes of paper have Climate Jerry Hammes the Hammes been for me the inspiration control renovation sponsor support we and sustained interest for cre­systems never could ative expression," she said in w e r e have done her artist's statement. installed this," Eldred "Oriental papers, in particular in order to said. because of their beauty, vari­enable the College to borrow The op_ening focused on ety and quality captivated myand show works more suscep­"Saint Mary's faculty and on imagination and challenged tible to climate change. The the Hammes family long me to pursue the possibilitiesGallery was also retiled and standing and significance with of using paper, primarily 
additional tract lighting was Saint Mary's College," said Japanese and Thai papers, as added. Eldred. a dominant graphic medium." "[This] sends a good mes­Art professors Douglas The exhibitions will be sage to the students about Tyler, Billy Ray Sandusky, shown on campus through [what) we believe in our mis-Sajit Sethi, Johnson Bowles, Feb. 18. 
• Name----------------------------That's why you should ask your doctor to check your blood pressure -Address ___________________________ 
and help you control it. Learn more 
.~
Amencan Heart

• City/State/Zip _______________________ .
at www.americanheart.org or call 
Association. 

• Telephone __________________________ 
1 -800-AHA-USA 1. Fighting Heart Disease and Stro~e 
• How did you hear about the program? _________________ 
• CurreotLawSchoo.________________________ 
. 

. ....... ... .. . . . . . .. ... . . . . . . ... .. . . . . .. . .... .... . . . .... . . 
page 4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 24, 2000 

Medal 
continued from page 1 
who agmPd with the views of the scientists_ 
At the same time, llcsburgh is recognized as a national and internation­al leader i.n highc'r educa­tion. He received his 140th and 141 st honorary dngrees 

''/ believe that this is the receive
this year, 

the most most appropriate time t h i s 
award,

e v e r for Congress and the 
but it isbestowerl 

entire nation to join me n o t
upon one 

person, in recognizing this some ­th i n g
aceorrling remarkable man and liv­
vou live
to the 

ing legend offreedom in for or
Guinness 

America" w o r k
Book of for. TheW o r I d 
m o s t
Records­

Tim Roemer 
impor­
Since 




Congressman t a n t
I 9 8 7 , Hesburgh has served as presi­dent emeritus and his office is currenUv located 
on th" 1 '.·H h J'l o<; r o f t he librarv. 
"No.tre Dame 'has been my whole life, since I arrived iu 1934_ The stu­dents are wonderful and they are the reason why ND exists. I love spending lime with them -no stu­d en l comes to my door without getting in," said Ilesburgh. 
llesburgh stepped down as head of !',;otre Dame in 1987, completing the longest tenure among active presidents of American universities. 
"Despite his retirement, Hesburgh continues much as he did as the nation's 
senior  university  chief  
executive officer  - as  a  
leading  educator  and  

humanitarian inspiring generations of students and citizens. and generously sharing his wisdom in the struggle for the rights of 
man," said Hoerner. 

Hesburgh has been a member or the United States Institute of Peace Board, which is attempting to solve problems in Eastern Europe and the Middle East. 
Heshurgh considers his involvement in the Catholic Church tu be the most important aspPct. of his lifo. "l am very happy and honored . t () 
thing is 
trying to 
be good at ev1>rvthing you do-for me, being a priest is the most important thi11g in my lil'P," said Hesburgh. 
lleshurgh served the Catholic Church from 1965 to 1970 as a member of the Moly See's delegation to the United Nations and as the permanent Vatican repre­sentative to the Atomic Energy Agency on behalf of Congress. 
llesburgh's medal cere­mony will most likely take place in spring or early summer in Washington, 
D.C. Specil'ically designed for Hesburgh, his medal will include two important parts of his life -the seal of the Congregation of the Holy Cross and the seal of Notre Dame. 
Created in 1776, the medal has been awarded to over 250 people. Recent recipients include the rev. Billy Graham Nelson Mandela. Hosa Parks and Colin Powell. 



Snite 
continued from page l 
and Mart.a '.\Ilaria Bravo. still live in Cuba. 
A large numbiir of Noire l)anrn stuifonts have already gone to see the exhiuil.ion, which opened on Jan. 16 and runs through Mar. 12. 
"!Students I seem to be really excited about tho 
~how. real!J in_lri~ued a~;d mten•stPd, said Costa. It gives a different feel." 
Costa added that any stu­dent who r.an find the work tha1. contains a scene of the Notre Dame campus should call her office lo enter a drawing /'or a prize_ 
The Snite has alreadv planned festivities for the weekend of tho exhibition's closing. Ar.tivities include a Cuban band, u series of Ice· turns and artist demonstra­tions. 
The Museum of Art, Fort Lauderdale, began the col­lection in 1994 based on the merit of the artwork, not 011 politics. Tho current exhibit at the Snite features a selection of that collec­tion. 
Tile E.L. Cord Foundation provided funding to make this exhibit possible. 

You know that noise your heart makes when you work, out? 
IT'S CALLED APPLAUSE. 

Think of each beat as your heart's way of cheering you on for staying physically active. Want a standing ovation? Try keeping your diet low in cholesterol and saturated fat too. For more ways to lower your risk of heart attack and stroke, visit www.americanheart.org Am . H 
o"'
encan eart or call 1-800-AHA-USA1. Association~ 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 



DIFFERENT 

DO AN SSPi 
This summer is your chance to learn and earn .2:~_ 3 credits working with the underserved. ~! 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 2000 
• 
8 WEEKS OF SERVICE LEARNING 

• 
$1700 TUITION SCHOLARSHIP 

• 
VALUABLE ALUMNI CONTACTS 

• 
POSSIBILITY OF EARNING $1100 THROUGH AMERICORP 

• 
3 CREDITS THEOLOGY, WITH POSSIBLE CROSS-IJSTS 

• 
0vER 200 SITES ACROSS THE U.S. 




**DEADLINE FOR ArPUCATIONS**; 
JANUARY 281>1 (FRIDAY) 
~ 

CENTER FOR SociAL CONCERNS ~ 
~ 



. ·.:;.,








·.'·.··.·...•...·.. 
:' . '
orld 
III 
Monday, January 24, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. pushes for peace in Congo 
.UNITED l\'ATIOI\S 
Tlw t:nitt•d Stat<'S has inviu•d a half'-do:wn African pr<'sidr'nts to tho UnitNI Nations to rprornmit tlwmsf'lVPS LO PIHling the 1,var in Congo. wag1•ring that thn rival sicks want pnac0 cir'spitP continu1'd lighting. Thr mrt'ting !\tonday of tlw African IN,dPrs ,,·ith tlw Sticuritv Council marks tht• culmination or a month-long cfl'orl by llw L'11it1•d Slal<'s. lo l'ol'us on prob!t·ms faring 
\frint and hmv ltw world t'.,lll lwlp. But it also c·onws at a tinw wlwn tlw 1:i-mPmhPr council is \\Pighirig wlwtlwr to SPIHI a [W,H't•.kecping fore<' into Congo. a move• that many say is bring bl1ll'h1·d b, Washington. Congo·s war W,Ls lau,wlll'd in .\ugust 1998 by rnbPls in thr l'asl­Prn part of' tlw vast n'ntral ,\l'rintn country ,,vho \\l'rt' s1'1•king In Dusl C:ongolcsr President l.atm•nt Kabila. Tlw rPll!'ls \\PrP ba.rk1,ct bv Bwanda and l'.ganda, whilt> Kabila Pnlisti>d th;, support t11'/.imbabwP. Znmbia and ,\ngola. 
Oil spill threatens Brazil beaches 
!HO DI! .L\NFIHO. tirazil 
l'<•trobras. tlw go\·1 ...nnwnl-ow1wd oil rompa­llY. 1, ill Im· down additional lloaling barriPrs to p;·l'Vt'llt th«' massivr, oil spill polluting Hio's (;uanabara Bay l'rorn sprl'ading to world­l'amous lwadws likP Coparabana and lpa1wma. tlw rompany·s prcsidPnt said Sunday. p,,, robrns' pn'sidPn t IIPnri PhillipP Heichstul said mirkPrs on \lond;iy 1-rill bPgin installing an adclilional (i(i.000 l'P!'t of' barriPrs to bt! formed by buoys. BarriPrs totaling 10.000 foct already an' in plal'P. "\\'1\ don't bPliPV<' tlw oil will leavr tlw bav." Hi:irhstul told Globo TV network. "But /'or th<; population's ppa1·p of' mind, WP deddPd to build addilional barriPrs." On Tuesday, a pipl'linP at tlw lledul' rt'firrnry !naked and spPwPd :nR.000 gallons ol' crude oil into tlw bay. 
Activists question goat tossing 
MANCANESl~S Ill: LA POLVOIWSA. Spain 
In tlw annual tug-of-war bPtween townspeo­plP and anim,tl rights activists. thP goat won. For tlw first lime in ypars. this village 150 miles rwrthwPsl of' ;-.,lad rid lwld its fr.stival of" St. Vi11rP11l Sunday without tossing a fiVP goat from tlw churt'h lwll towPr. Tlw animal is traditional­ly dropp('(I SO foet and tlwn salt!ly caught in a tarp. Hut tlw town council said lhP PVP.nt would not takP phu·t•. this yPar and threat!'fied lines of' $1.:iOO to $1 :i.000 J'or anyorw who helped throw thP goat. That didn·t kP<'P sPwral hundred p1•0-. pk from gallwring bPlow lhl' bdl tower Sunday in tlw tiny squarP in front of' the stone chun-h. ,\s llw a!'tr•rnoon wor!' on and darkness began to fall. p<'oplP slarl«'d chanting. "Toss the goat! Toss llw goat1" Chnr•rs brokP out wlwn several ~ou11g llll'll arrin,d \\ilh tlw animal. but lh1\y said tlw~-would toss il from llw lower only if tlw cro\\d ,H·rompanil'd tlwm. l\lo one volun­l!'PrPd. Tlw goal was lf'<l away, safr for llw 
day. 
INkiiMiii&Mttll
Dow AMEx: 
911.62 JONES +l?OI 
N11sdac1:
-99.59 
4235A 

.,_~~.K9 
l\YSE 6.W.58 -0.93 
S&P 500: 
1441.36
11,251.71 
--l.21 
VOLUME LEADERS 
COKPMiY  TICKER  C'HANC.E  
MCI WORl,DCOM 1N  W'COM  ~,. 05  
MICROSOFT COI\P  MSP'l'  -2 .17  
COMPAQ COMPUT:&:fl.  CPQ  +S.26  
l,WCENT TECH rm£~ CORP  me  cu INTC  +o. 4 a +2. 42  
AMERICA ONJ.,INI  ML  . 1..07  
Ti.CHMICLON& COR  TCi..N  +71.0  
HEJ.LTHEON /WEB M  Rt.TH  .. 11. ,5  
oRACt.s CORF  OR.CL  -+CJ. 74  
guN MICROSYSTBM  """"  -2.H  


Cumpo~itc Volume: 
1.1 o~.Joo.ooo 
•CHANG£ PRICE •l .7':, 41. 62 ~2 .25 1.03.'15 +1. s, l1.25 1-·0 .2~ ;i2. 75 .;.'2 .31 97. 9.f. +0.68 64. 75 +l.2.5 3.00 +B. 91 51). 56 ..o.u 59.U -1..U: 8'.t4 
C0MPII.ED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
ECUADOR 

Ecuador's new president, Gustavo Noboa, stands with his wife Maria Baquerizo as he greets the press Sunday in Quito. Noboa took over as president after Jamil Mahuad was ousted by a three-man military junta. 

VP becomes president after coup 
Associated Press 
QUITO 
Ecuador's new presi­dent, Gustavo Noboa, comes into office with almost no experience in government except for 17 months as vice president. 
That's a plus for most Ecuadoreans. 
It means that Noboa, an academic and former uni­versity rector. has not been contaminal0,d by the r,orruption that has stained most public offi­cials sinc0, democracy was 
restored  to  this small  
Andean  nation  two  
dnr.ades ago.  

Well aware of public outrage over corrupt gov-
Georgia storm cuts power to thousands 
ernments. Noboa stressed in his first remarks as president that his priority would be to bring dishon­est officials to justice. He said he is prepared to fight to extradite them from abroad. where many have fled after looting the pub­lic coffers. 
"lie won't tolerate cor­ruption. That is something that characterizes him. He has never acquired wealth." said Walter Spurrier. a distinguished economist who has known Noboa for yAars. 
Noboa took office Saturday after the military forced President Jamil Mahuad from power. The military said it was taking the step to avoid "a social explosion" after hundreds of Indians and young mili­tarv officers stormed the Congress building and announced the formation of a new government to fight corruption and work on behalf of the poor. 
In his only public state­ment since assuming the presidency, Noboa sought to bring a message of hope to Ecuadoreans, who have grown increasingly dis­trustful of promises by political leaders. 
"My profound conviction as a Christian permits me to hope that vvith God's help Ecuadoreans today can begin the march toward better days." the 62-year-old president said. 
Noboa, a politiral inde· 
across coastal areas ol' Georgia and the Carolinas as the storm pushed east­ward and out to sea. Up to three inches of snow fell in some areas of North Carolina. 
The rain had been fore­cast to end late Saturday in Georgia but was still falling Sunday afternoon. Temperatures in the Atlanta area didn't warm above freezing until the middle of the day. 
Ice accumulated a half­inch thick on trees in parts of northern Georgia, and the weight of the ice on power lines pulled down utility poles. 
More than 340,000 home pendent, spent 10 years as the rector of the University of Guayaquil on Ecuador's Pacific coast. He also has served as dean of' the uni­versity's law school and he taught for more than two decades in Catholic high schools. 
In his only previous experience in public office prior to being elected vice president. Noboa served briefly in 1983 as the appointed governor of Guayas province. He also has experience in business as the former manager of a sugar refinery. 
Friends and rolleagues describe him as a gifted negotiator. a demanding teacher -ralm. serious. a man of f'ew words. 
and businAss customPrs of Georgia Power lost service statewide, 290.000 of them in the metropolitan Atlanta area, Blaylock said. At least 175.000 customers of electric membership corpo­rations also were blacked out. 
Hundreds of utility repair crews were put to work in Georgia. 
"It's just the sheer vol­ume and massive nature of the problem that makes us go from one spot to the next to the next. WP. fix one, and another trne breaks. and causes another outage," said Pat Kerley of the Jackson Electric Membership Corp. 
A.c,.sociated Press 
ATLANTA 
Rain and freezing tem­peraturrs spread a coat of ice across parts of Georgia Sunday, knocking out elec­trical service to more than a half-million customers. 
Many of those house­holds and businesses could be without powrr until at least Tuesday as crews struggle over slippery roads to reach downed lines and ice-coated tree limbs continue to snap, pulling down more. 
"This is the worst storm since Hurrkarni Opal came through in 1996, and it took six days to get power fully restored for that one," said Georgia Power spokeswoman Becky Hlaylock. "If it keeps rain­ing and it freezes again ... we could be looking at more people without power. We're in for a long haul." 
Georgia Gov. Roy Barnes declared a state· of emer­gency Sunday for six north­ern counties. and the Hed Cross opened eight shelters around the state for people who had no heat. 
Snow and freezing rain also fell in other parts of the southern Appalachians. and locally heavy rain fell 

page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 24, 2000 
GERMANY
AUSTRIA 
Klima may make deal 


Kohl scandal reaches France 

ZAHM • CAVANAUGH • REGINA KEOUGH • WELSH FAMILY KNOTT • PASQUERILLA EAST MORRISSEY • HOWARD • LEMANS 
. 'NEILL • MCGLINN ST. Eo's • FAFu.,;:y 
. J,-. _· 7', " 
SIEGF"RIED • PASQUERILLA WEST SORII\I • WP,.LSH
fees .. 
• KEENANSTANFORD • BREfE'f'I /~~\~l.,I_PS
lDaHy s.\ Ouer t /t 
$1 .00 DONATION REQUESTED AT THE D .. R.
Two hb ..1 
... ~ \ :· j 
i f',nn i.:..~..-'.: . ' ,· ~·i -' j 
THE DEAPLINE FDR ENTERING A TEAM IS MONDAY, .JANUARY 31 •
mOCa mv _ _-·-\ ---;!,:<·..j 
C::ALL 1 -61 00 F'OR THE NAME OF YOUR HALL REPRESENTATIVE,
mttle GolfS ..Pin t~e RocRne Memorial 
CaH 631-6425< ~ · \;-ci" 
FRIDAY, F'EBRUARY 4, 2000 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM
*Rentals not auatlable on January 24, 26, 31 & febraury 2 .JOYCE CENTER • 631-61 OD 

ALL LNO MEOAL.5 WERE DONATED av THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
Associated Press 
Associated Press 
VIENNA 
Chancellor Viktor Klima suggested for the first time Sunday that his Socialists could f'orm a govPrnrnent coalition with Joerg Haider's. far-right party -a group he had steadfastly rnj~c-rnd as autidemocratic. 
In an interview with ttrn Austrian newsmagazinc Format. Klima tempPred his changed stancP with a call for Haider's Freedom Party to support his proposed minority government of Socialists and independent exptffls. 
"Jfwe form a !minority! gov­ernment of experts led 
bv the 
"l believe the present international 
to Saudi Arabia, and the sui­
s·ocial 
notoriety a 
cide of a party accountant ­
situation is a chance for 
Democrats, 
decade ago 
took a further bizarre twist
and the the freedom Party to 
by praising 
Sunday after a fake state­
Freedom 
prove that they can take Hitler's 
ment was faxed to news
P a r t y 
employment
on responsibility 
media saying Kohl was rnady
shows over 
policies, and 
to name anonymous donors
a period of for the state." 
later for 
to the Christian Democratic
months 
lauding vet­
party.
and years 
erans of the
Viktor Klima 
Kohl told lhe Frankfurter
that they 
Waffen SS as 
Allgemeine Zeitung newspa­
can work Austrian Chancellor 
together on important issues. that is, without a doubt. paving the way to cred­ibility." Klima told the maga­zine, which goes on news­stands Monday but was made available to the media on Sunday. 
The comments come as Austria's political leaders worked to end four months of political deadlock on forming a new government. Talks have been going on since parlia­mentary elections in October, when Klima 's Social Democrats finished first ­but without enough seats to rule on their own. 
While Haider's Freedom Partv finished second. Klima had ·firmly rejected any possi­bility of forming a coalition as long as Haider remains its head. lie then attempted to rev,ive the previous coalition of Socialists and the center­right People's Party -which came in third -but those efforts collapsed last week. 
II aider, who bas refused to support a Socialist minority 
ALUMNI • LYONS • MCCANDLESS
this week to try to break the deadlock. 
CARROLL • BADIN • HOLY CROSS DILLON • LEWIS 
"'$ 
FISHER • PANGBORN 
the scandal. Parliament has launched an inquiry to exam­ine whether bribes or kick­backs influenced government decision!-> under Kohl, who was chancellor from 1982­98, and he also is the subject of a criminal investigation. 
Kohl stepped dow11 as hon­orary chairman ol' tlrn Christian Democratic party last week under pressure from party leaders who demanded he identify the donors. Some party officials have even hintr,d of possible l<'gal action against Kohl to compel him to rov,~al the donors. 
Angela Merkel, party secre­tary-g1ineral, was meeting with senior party leaders Sunday ernning to review an audit of the party's finances. She told reporters that accountants were unable to clarify where $5.7 million in party money had come from, although $1 million were believed to be from Kohl's anonymous donors. 
The audit was to be made public Monday, but Merkel said it revealed nothing new about the part of the scandal disclosed over the weekend involving Mitterand, who died in 1996, and the French oil company Elf-Aquitaine. 
ARD television reported Saturday that Mitterrand arranged payment of $15.7 million to the Christian Democrats and that the money was transferred as part of alleged bribes total­ing $44 million paid by Elf­Aquitaine for its 1992 pur­chase of the former East German Leuna refinery. 
The alleged bribes have long been the subject of investigation by Swiss and French prosecutors. 
Officials in the German chanr.ellor's office also have been searching for missing government files on the pri­vatiza tio n deal sought by parliam,,,nt as part of its inquiry into tlrn scandal. This week, the government said it would appoint a special inv1\stigatur to track down what happened to the files. 
AHD said there was no evi­dence Kohl was aware of tho $15.7 million transfer, and Michael f!oik. Kohl's spokesman, called the allega­tion a charactPr assassina­tion of tlrn fornrnr chancellor. 
In a joint report with J:irench Television 2, ARD cited sources close to Mitterrand as saying the money was not bribes but was intended to serve "state interests for Europe." 
The report said the French and German secret services met regularly with middle­rnr.n in a Geneva hotel to make the payments. 
Meanwhile Sunday. the leader of Germany's Jewish community said he had received an apology from Christian Democrat leaders for a false comment by Prince Casimir Sayn­Wittgenstein, a former state party treasurer in Hesse, that some of the money in the scandal came from Jewish estates. 
"It came late, but not too late," Paul Spi1~gel, president of the Central Council of Jews in Germany. 
"men of 
honor." 
Those com­ments have dogged him ever since, though he has apolo­gized, and his party's str<!ng anti-foreigner stance has lur­ther besmirched its reputation abroad -Israel has threat­ened to break diplomatic rela­tions with Austria if the Freedom Party enters the gov­ernment. 
"It is a question of credibili­ty," Klima said in the Format interview. "I believe the pre­sent situation is a chance for the Freedom Party to prove that thev can take on respon­sibility for the state." 
President Thomas Klestil. who has had a strong voice in the post-election attempts to form a new government, favors a Socialist-People's Party coalilion, but bas indi­cate.ct he prrif'ers a Socialist minority government to a coalition that would include Haider's party. 
Both Klima and Klcstil will meet with all party hiaders per that the fax was a forgery and reiterated that he would not identify the donors from whom he has admitted soliciting $1 million that was kept off party books. 
"I don't have the intention to make such a statement," Kohl was quoted as saying. 
His refusal to name names has become the key issue in 
R~~ 

LRTE HIGHT 




LYMPIC 
2 D D D 
Jomu, 't){)Wff; uwr 
with far-right groups 
government, said in an inter­view that ho believed the most likely sci~nario was a round of new elections: That "would provide more options," he told tho dailv Kurier in a story to br. published Monday. 
After a new election. llaider told the rrnwspaper that Lim strongest party should (ill the position of chancellor and the s,•cond strongest party "when it is at. all possible" should become the coalition partner. 
Polls hav,, suggested his party could emerge strongest. in any new eler.tion because of aoneral d iss atisfacti on with ftrn other two main parties and their lack of success in creating a new government. 
Haider 
gained 
BEHUN 
The web of secret rnonoy lransfors trapping Germany's consorvatives in a financing scandal widened Sunday with alle­
gations that the French govern­ment of Francois Miller­rand l'un­nl'!od mil­

Kohl
lions of dollars to support former Chancellor Helmut Kohl's 1994 re-elec­tion. 
The scandal -which has involved mo1rny trading hands in suitcases, arms deals stretching from Canada 

r-------------------------------------~-----­
page 7
Monday, January 24, 2000 The Observer . NEWS 
SPAIN 

One million protesters march against bombing 
Assodaced Press 
MADRID 
In an emotional call for peace, an 1istimatl'd 1.1 million people marched through downtown Madrid on Sunday to protest a car-hmnb attack sP-en as a resur­gence of Basque separatists' 32­year-old campaign of violence. 
Prime Ministnr Jose Maria Aznar and former premiers Felipe Gonzalez, Adolfo Suarez and Lnopoldo Calvo Sotelo led the d,\n10nstration. carrying a giant banner that read: "l~or Peace and Liberty. T1:rrorism No!" 
"This difficult and long fight bdongs to all of' us," said Aznar. who was accompanied by his l'amily. "We will end up winning cv<m if it makPs us suffer." 
Police in twli­
"We will end up winning G u a r d 
copters over the 
· even ifit makes building in
city estimah'd the 
the north­
rrowd at 1.1 mil­us sujfer." 
ern BasquP.
lion. Interior 
city of San
Ministry official 
Jose Maria Aznar Sebastian.
l'ndro · Nutrnz 
No one was
prime minister
Morgadcs said. 
though some reporters and polir.n at the scene said it was less than half that. 
The demonstrators packed a nearly one-mile stretch through this city of 3.5 million people. Many clapped in unison, while others toted banners that read "Fnough" or "ETA No" -the lat­tnr a reference to the Basque llomeland and Frnl~dom group hPlievP.d responsihle for Friday's rnr-bomb attack that killed an army colonel. 
Sunday's demonstration brought back memories of anti­ETA rallies across Spain in 1997 that many believed helped per­suade the organization to agree to a cnase-fire. 
ET;\ endnd tlw 14-month truce on Dec. 3 and warned of more attacks. although there was no cluim of rnsponsibility in the rncent bombing. FTA said it was 
~lO tr.a> global !eadef­in lha teil:!c.omrmmic,t.cn.. cable ard 

·.vre~~ busi~. 
A s1rUC".u-ed prow&rn !hat include!.. 
lh:.,ect-ooentl'd .r,siw,rnents C0<pc:n1e-5pa.-rored eve~ 
Ne:,,,,,o·i,jn~ 'JS'!!ftli , 'So(;,al gaire'ing,. 
FcrrnafotJiecti,,e,; a.rli ~aisal:i 
An o,:,port:rilr ~o la'L11'£h you· r.are<Y 
C"ia leng,rig JS'/4nmims 
b<j::Erence :n a fortune 500 co~· 
scrapping the truce as talks were making no progress toward its goal of' independence for the Basque region, an area that straddles northern Spain and southwestern f'rancc. 
Basque actor Imanol Arias told demonstrators that "the terrorists must be forced to lose any hope of getting anywhere by killing inno­cent people. 
"We don't want one more death," he shouted to the applause of thousands packing Puerta de! Sol in the heart of Madrid. 
Nearly 800 people have died during ETA's three-decade cam­paign for an independent Basque nation. 
On Sunday, ETA supporters were blamed for a Molotov cock­
tail attack 
on a Civil 
injured. 
Molotov 
cocktail 
attacks have become a regular feature of weekend violence in the Basque region in recent years. 
"We arc only human so we're scared," said Mercedes Perez, a 79-year-old housewife who attended the demonstration Sunday. I!er hands trembled and her voice broke as she shouted of her recent belief that the violence had ended with peace talks. 
';Now we are back to bloodshed. Am I going to have a bomb on my street? When I'm at the super­market? The only thing we can do is show that ttrn Spanish people are united." 
Other protesters expressed a. sense of impotence at the return to violence. 
"We can do nothing to stop ETA," said Antonia Garcia Quesada, housewife from Madrid. 

Fom consderatic..,-, to,-the "ir.ann,,1 L,iadcrship Proiram 
job d=ri~ticn, Entt y-le.,el rna,,.:,6errier.i positions, S...12 week n.ill assigt'll'OOnt; 
Respoo~1b,l1es Llfl rou:ie, but JJ e not lirriled t-o,; web<~ oo-w,lo~nt, des1gntni!. £na.,-,:,al mo.::let, plarffl,g a1'd results r-ei:a-ting aild anal~~;:;. aud,tmg, MM~ · ' 
Requiremf:nts. ~,rig zophamare. Jllf'l()C. and senior BA Of t<il.A. in Finance Accounting. Of E<:ooomics. Cumda!i,e GPA or ].5 1refen-ed, ].0 rriifi -· 
Demo~a-.ed attrb,zes of ie.aoe-.hiP. Solid anaJvfcal ard comfficl'li­catior!. sk.ls. Crea!M!! aro entnlprl!nw,1erial sprrt. T iMn.,,,-ork bOJ!.. 
lo::.a!il'.Y\: l'-la1ont,-of po,ilions ill l'-Je.v )i!rs.ey. (Hcn.!:iing as&;stlnce and tr-anpartatioo available..) 
1/Vhen: Subm:t ;,01¥ ret..ume ooline n GOIRi'SH cr ~i!it ti!. at thee JarlU:l'Y 27 S,.romer Intern Carner Fa;,­



Study: Seniors bored in school 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
College freshmen say they often were bored as high school seniors, coming late to classes or missing thorn entirely, evidence of what uni­versity researchers call "acad­emic disengagement." 
Theso students also worried 
about how to pay for college 
and one-quarter indicated 
there was "some" or a "verv 
good" chance they would have 
to work full time while in 
school. 
The 34th annual American 
Freshman survey questioned 
first-time, full-time college 
freshmen last year about their 
habits and attitudes during 
their final year of high school. 
More than 260,000 students 
at 462 two-and four-year 
schools participated in the 
research by the University of 
California, Los Angeles' 
Higher Education Research 
Institute, primarily during 
summer orientation or in the 
first few weoks of college. 
A record 40 percent of the 
students said they were "fre­
quently bored" in high school 
elasses, compared with the 
one-quarter who answered 
yes when the questions first was asked in 1985. More stu­dents also reported they were late to classes or skipped them. 
College and universities "need to make sure if the stu­dents are already feeling dis­engaged in high school that they arc going to get the sup­p o r t . mentor­
tea<'hers use more interactive tools. But not all teachers do it... 
Also, :-m percent of respon­dents said they often felt "overwhe1med by all I have to do'' -the highest percentage since the question was first askPd in 1985, when 16 per­
cent felt that 
way. 
ing, tutor­Students
"This is a reflection ofan
ing and increasingly other ser­increasingly fast-paced are worried 
vices thev society, made more so by about the 
need to cost of high­
computers and
make it er education. through other media." A record 25 college," percent of s a i d students said
Linda Sax 
Jennifer there was

researcher
Lin of the "some" or a United "very good" States chance they Student Association, a would work full time while in Washington-based group college. Just 16 percent serving :-3-5 million students. answered that wav in 1982, 
Linda Sax. a researcher the first year that question who directed the survey, said appeared. the rapid advances in today's More college-bound stu­high-tech world may make it dents rate themselves as harder to hold students' atten­above average academically, tion. 59 percent, compared with 
"This is a reflection of an others their own age, and 34 increasingly fast-paced soci­percent reported earning an A ety, made more so by comput­average, more than in previ­er·s and other media," Sax ous years. About half expect said. "Students tell us anecdo­to earn at least a B average in tally that they love it when college. 

Elian's grandmothers pray in NYC 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The grandmothers of Elian Gonzalez blew kisses and wiped away tears as they stood before 2,000 people praying in a Manhattan church Sunday for the 6­year-old boy's return to Cuba. 
The two women, Raquel Rodriguez and Mariela Quintana, did not speak as worshippers at the interde­nominational Riverside Church gave them a standing ovation. 
"Raquel and Mariela are grateful for your love," said the Rev. Bob Edgar. a former Democratic congressman and head of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the U.S.A., which spon­sored the grandmothers' trip from Havana. 
Randy Naylor, a spokesman for the church group, said the two women would leave New York on Monday. The two women arrived in New York on Friday and met Saturday with U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno in Washington D.C. 
In an interview published in Sunday's New York Times, Quintana, the paternal grandmother, said: "We're not politicians. What we want is the well-being of the child." 
Referring to the boy's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, and other relatives whom the boy is staying with in Miami, she added: "I don't know why they want the child to stay here after the trauma he's been through. They are not close relatives." 
Elian was rescued from an inner tube on Thanksgiving Day after the boat in which he had left Cuba capsized. His mother. her boyfriend and nine others perished. 
The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has ordered the boy returned to Cuba. His great-uncle has filed suit to stop the INS. And lawmakers in Congress plan an attempt this week to declare Elian a U.S. citizen. If such legislation becomes law, the boy no longer would be an immigrant under INS jurisdiction. 
Republican presidential candidate George W. Bush. speaking on ABC's "This Week," said granting Elian citizenship "would be a won­derful gesture." 
He added that the boy's father should come to the United States. 
"A couple of weeks I would think would be reasonable so that the man could get a taste of freedom, so the man could understand the same emotions and the same senti­ment that evidently the boy's mother felt," Bush said. 
But Rodriguez, Elian 's maternal grandmother, scoffed at those who say Elian's mother would have wanted him to stay here. 
"None of them knew her," Hodriguez told the Times. "How can they know what she thought?" · 
The grandmothers told the Times that the boy was extremely close to them and to his father, and that he spent part of each week with his dad, who had divorced Elian's mother and remar­ried. 
So far the grandmothers have announced no plans to go to Miami. But the Cuban American National Foundation, a group opposed to the Cuban Communist regime of Fidel Castro, offered to fly them there. 
Jorge Mas Santos, the Miami-based group's chair­man, said the grandmothers are being manipulated by Castro and his supporters and would have come to Miami to sec Elian if not for "the fact that their loved ones remain as virtual hostages back in Cuba." 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 24, 2000 
Study: States ignore special education regulations 
Disabilities Education Act, council said Education deserve because the govern­ties much more seriously."
Associated Pre•s 
said it has increasecl monitor­Secretary Richard Hiley has ment is not doing its job. The council made dozens ol' ing under the Clinton adminis­been more aggressive in seek­"We have created a segre­recommendations to strength­tration. ing to improve monitoring and gated system of education, en federal enforc11ment. They
WASHINGTON 
"We concur that the respon­enf'orcenrnnt than the com­wlrnrc kids are segregated include giving the Justicn
Manv chilrlren with disabili­
sibility of enforcement of this bined efforts ol' all his prede­with other children with dis­Department independent
ties a;·e getting substandard 
law should not be borne on cessors. Hut the group sai.d abilities and don't acquire the authority to investigate casesschooling he<;ause states am the barks of parents," said serious problems persist. skills thoy need to function in and take states to court; pro­
not complying v,ith federal 
Judith Heumann, assistant According lo compliance society," she said. viding more money for
rules on special education, an 
secrPlary of thn Office or rnports covPring 1994 through The Education Department enforcement and handling of'independent agency reports. 
Special Education and 1998: can withhold money from complaints; and r.reating a
U.S. officials an~ not forcing Rehabilitative Servil:e. . 36 states failed to (rnsure states that do not follow the process for handling com­
compliance, and as a result, 
"Somo states arc not where that children rules but plaints at the federal level.
parents o!'t,,n must sue to 
,A'e want them to be and are with disabili­has pun-The special education reportenforce tJ1<' law. according to not implementing the laws as ties are not ished only is part of the council's multi­
"Some states are not
a review of more than two 
they need to," Heumann said. segrngated one state, year study for the president
decades of enforcement of the where we want them to
"Wc'vll been Spllmling siguifi­from regular Virginia. and Congress un the imple­federal special education Jaw. 
rant time increasing our mon­classrooms. be and are not Federal mentation and enforcement of'In too many cases. children 
itoring, technical assistance . 44 states implementing the laws as courts the Americans with
with disabilities are taught in and enforcement." failed to f'ul-reversed Disabilities Act and other civil 
separate classrooms and they need to. We've been 
Nearly six million American 1ow rules that deci­rights laws.
schools are not following 
children rece.ive special edu­rcqu,iring spending significant time sion. Only Arkansas, llawaii,
otlrnr regulations meant to 
cation instruction and services schools to increasing our Heumann Nevada and Oklahoma wern 
protect these students l'rom 
at a cost of almost $40 billion, help studnnts said the ensuring that local school
discrimination. the National monitoring, technical
about $5.7 billion of which is find jobs or Education authorities adhered to non­
Council on Disability said in a t'edPral monev. contimw their assistance and Department discrimination laws. com­
reported to be released 
The specia:l cduc·ation Jaw education. has begun pared to 45 who were not. No
enforcement. " 
Tuesday. Tim Associat('d 
was meant to end discrimina­. 45 states cracking information for Mississippi
Press obtained an advance 
tion against children with dis­failed to down on was given in this catngory.
copy. Judith Heumann
abilities. Mauv of these chil­ensure that states by Alaska, /\rizona, /\rkansas.
The problems have persist­
dren had been excluded from local school assistant secretary, Office of requiring Colorado, Hawaii. Maine. 
Hd for years in many lnca­
public schools, institutional­authorities Special Education that short­Nebraska, Nevada, New
tions. said the council. whirh 
ized or placed in programs adhered to comings be Hampshire, New Mexico.
makes recommendation to the that provided little or no non-discrimi-corrected as Oklahoma, Oregon, Southpresident and Congress. 
learning. The law was nation laws. a condition Dakota and Vermont were
"Federal efforts to enforce 
strengthened in 1997. States long have fought with for continued federal pay­ensuring that disabled kidsthe law over several adminis­Under the law, local educa­local schools and the ments. If they fail to fix a are not segregated from regu­
trations have been inconsis­tion authorities that receive Education Department over problem within a year, the lar classrooms. The rest of 
tent, ineffective and lacking 
federal money answer to state costs, saying they need more department can refer the case states were not. 
anv real teeth," the report 
agencies, which in turn federal money for special edu­to the Justice Department or Georgia, Nebraska. North 
sai'd. 
answer to the federal cation. withhold funding. Dakota, Pennsylvania, SouthOfficials at the Department 
Education Department. The Lilliam Rangel-Diaz, a coun­"The problems that exist in Carolina and Wyoming were
or Education, the federal 
department's monitoring divi­cil board member and parent states concern us very dear­the only states following rules 
agency responsible for over­sion has 35 employees and of children with disabilities, ly," said Heumann, who uses requiring schools to help stu­seeing compliance with the 
budget of about $2.7 million. contended that children are a wheelchair. "Many have dents find jobs or continue 1975 Individuals with 
In its report, the disabilities not getting the schooling they been taking their responsibili-their educations. 
Do You LIKE SPORTS? Do You LovE K1Ds? Do You WANT To GET PAID 
AND 
EARN COLLEGE CREDIT? 

National Youth Sports Program 
Needs You! Come and learn how you can be a part of 




NYSP 2000 
Thursday, January 20 at 8 p.m. or Monday, January 24 at 7 p.m. at 
Center for Social Concerns Classroom 
(for additional information call 876-8394) 



Benefits include: 
-Living in residence hall on campus -Three meals per day -Tuition credit of$1,200 -Academic Credit 
Monday, January 24, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Candidates converge in Iowa 
Associaced Press 
DES MOINES, !own 
On tlw nvn of Iowa's caucus­es. R1~publica11 and l)pmocratic presidl'ntial can­<l i<lal1:s canvassed churches and national talk shows Sunday, 
scouring this snow­
r rust Pd stc1t1• for I a s t ­rninutn support even as t h I' y hl\i{an 
looking ahnad to conwsts in Nnw Hampshire and lwyond 
"This is the !irst slcp in scv­nral sH1ps of thn jnurrn1y." Bill Bradley, the rormer New J1irs1\y sm1ator who trails Vice PrcsidPnl Al Corp in Dt!mocratic polls. said on CBS. 
Entering thn first nl!!Ction t·ontt•st ol' Campaign 2000. Bcpublir.an G1!orge W. Bush and (iore lrnld wide leads in polls ol' votiffs who plamwd to visit schools. dvk clubs, f'irn stations and otlrnr sit0s Monday to supp11rl one oi' eight major conteslants. 
Tlw underdog candidat()S, al I r<'sig,rnd to losing, wnre shooting for face-saving fin­ishns and Iowa's Lrun rnward: MmnPnlum for Nnw llamµshirn's Feb. l primary. 
"This is a marathon, not a sprint." said Hepubliran Stt>v1• Forb1!s on NBC's "Meet tlw Prnss." 
_:!,'li-e,...f~to in low!i, a lesl of' political organization. favors the national l"ront-run­IH'rs. /\ Des Moines Sundav Htigisti'r poll of 1,200 likely cau(·us-go1irs show<'d Gort' J1,ading Bradli!y among l)pmorrats S6 pcrcPnt to 28 pnn'.1)11l. Bush Ind Forbns 43 pPrcnnl to 20 pnrcent in tlw Jan. l(1-21 survnv, which had an error margi;1 or plus or minus !'our p1-wccntage points. 
BradlPy is in danger of fin­ishing worsP than t\Xtmctcd in a contPst that traditionally punislws candidaLPs who fail to 1111Hit PXJrnctalions. 
llis latnsl poll rating was bn1wath Urn intPntionally-low threshold his advisers set as a measure of' acwmplishment: The 31 percent showing by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­Mass.. in a second-place finish behind then-President Jimmy Carter in the 1980 caucuses. 

With the rest of tho GOP field in single digits. Forbes has long said he is the conser­vative alternative to Bush. The argument would carry greater weight if, after pouring mil­lions or dollars into Iowa since his failnd l 996 bid, Forbes rares bettN than the new poll suggests -23 points behind Bush. 
The polls show that about one in 10 voters am undecid­ed, giving the candidates incentive to campaign hard Sunday. 
"The only thing I know to do is to encourage our folks to get out and vote. We nef'd as big a vote as possible," Bush Lold rnporters between cam­paign stops. 
In a lfmgthy interview with MIC, Bush struggled with his explanation for supporting a sales Lax increase in Texas aftf'r making a no-tax pledge. The second-term governor said he had qualified the promise by also pledging to reform education funding in the state, an effort that pre­sumably led to the tax propos­al. 
Dismissing the issue, Bush said "There's pledges all the tinrn" and reviewed a record as governor that included two major tax cuts. 
He also continued to flesh out his views on abortion, a critical issue to many GOP -caucus-goers. Asked about the topic ror the fourth day, he predicted that Texas would outlaw rirsl-trimester abor­tions if the Supreme Court reversed itself and let states impose strict an ti-abortion laws -a position Bush says the court should take. 
Maintaining a caucus tradi­tion. several campaigns had supporters papering churches and their parking lots with leallets. Religious conserva­tives represent a third of like­ly caucus-goers and are more likely than most voters to attend the sessions. 
Though Forbes is expected to get a lion's share of the conservative vote, former ambassador Alan Keyes. Washington activist Gary Bauer am.I Sim. Orrin Hatch of Utah are carving up the reli­gious base. Keyes, Bauer and Halch am likely competing for third place; finishing lower could doom their candidacies. 
Addressing a congregation on the city's industrial north side, Bauer said Christians should vote more on principle than on "selfish" issues such as taxes. 
"Do what you think God would have you do," he said. 
Looking to New Hampshire, Bush pressed his case against Sen. Jolrn McCain's tax-cut­ting package. The Arizona senator, who did nol cam­paign in Iowa, is in a tight race with Bush in the New England state. 
"The fundamental debate is do we leave money in Washington or do we give it back to taxpayHs''" Bush said. 
McCain would cut fewer taxes than Bush, saving some projected government sur­pluses to bolster Social Security, Medicare and pay down lhe national debt. While Bush was in Iowa, McCain was campaigning Sunday in New Hampshire where he picked up endorsements from two of the state's biggest newspapers. 
Public polls suggest that Gore has opened a slight lead over Bradley in New Hampshire. though the vice president's own polls still show the race in a statistical dead heat. Bradley aides also consider the race tied. On the Republican side, McCain is maintaining a lead in the high single digits over the Texas governor, although Bush has an edge in at least one poll. 
A CNN-USA Today-Gallup poll Sunday on the New Hampshire contest had \1.cCain ahead of Bush, 42 percent to 33 percent, among likely Republican primary vot­ers, with an error margin of plus or minus five percentage points. On the Democratic side, Gore had a lead over Bradley, 43 percent to 52 per­cent, with an error margin of plus or minus four percentage points. 
In New Hampshire, McCain said he would cancel a cam­
]
----------------------------,paign commercial responding 
SATURDAY JANUARY 29 
8:00 P.M. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office 

284-4626 
to an ad by Bush in which the Texas governoi· says McCain's tax plan would result in a $40 billion tax increase for work­ing people. 
McCain has argued that Bush's claims are false. 
Bush aides said the ad went off the air last week, but McCain consultant Mike Murphy disputed that, saying "pP.ople saw it on Friday." 
Major refuses vaccine; confronts court martial 
Associated Press 
ELLEND/\LE. Del. 
Maj. Sonnie Bates is so cau­tious about following military rules that he won't talk to a reporter in his home without first changing out of his uni­form. 
But the decorated pilot has not followed all his orders. Bates, 35, is believed to be the highest-ranking officer in the Air Force to face a court-mar­tial for refusing to be vacci­nated against anthrax. 
"I fully expect to be in a court-martial inside of six weeks," he said. "And I'll lose the court-martial. I don't have any doubt." 
An investigating officer is to hold a hearing next week at Dover Air Force Base where Bates will be able to argue against the charge. IIc doesn't expect to win, and he believes thn Pnntagon intnnds to make an example of him. 
Lower-ranking soldiers con­cerned about getting sick from the anthrax vac­
going to handle it," she said. "He'll ask every day where his dad is." 
Maj. Frank Smolinsky, chief of public affairs at Dover Air Force Base, said the proceed­ings don't have tn lead to a court-martial. There are sev­eral steps in the process that could lead to the charge being dismissed, Smolinsky said. 
But in the Bates home, the family is convinced that it will end badly. It has meant weeks of anxiety, sleepless nights, crying jags. 
The night before Hates heard the charge read against him, his wife's grandfather died. In her kitchen, Roxane Bates recounted how the dealh added to her stress. 
"Pop-Paw died?" Candy, their 14-ycar-old daughter, interrupted. 
"Oh my God, Candy, I didn't tell you," her mother said. She clasped hn hands to her face and Candy twisted into tears. 
"You can see what this has done to us, done to my fami­ly," she said. 'Tm so worked up about things I 
forgot to
cine won't be "Ifyou know it's right, 
tell my
as likely to you stand up for it. And 
daughter
resist the 
likewise, ifyou know it's her great­
shots after a 
gr and fa ­
major has wrong, you have to 
ther died."
been court­challenge it. No matter 
Bates is
martialed and 
what the consequences." tall, with a 
sent to Fort 
long stride.
Leavenworth, 
He grew
Kan., Bates­Sonnie Bates 
up poor
said. Air Force major a_nd . _put
'Tm doing what _I've alwavs been train~d to do and taught to do," he said. "If you know it's right, you stand up for it. And likewise, if vou know it's wrong, you hive to challenge it. No matter what the conse­quences." 
The military has ordered all of its 2.4 million reserve and active-duty soldiers, sailors and airmen to be inoculated as a defense against biological warfare. 
Several military personnel have been prosecuted for refusing the shots, and some reservists have quit to avoid taking them. The military says they are safe. 
The consequences of Bates' decision are severe. He could lose his rank and pension. He could lose his house. And he could face up to five years in prison, away from his wife and three children. 
That is a thought that terri­fies Roxane Bates. She doesn't know what it will mean for Seth, their 7-year-old autistic son. 
"Seth can't accept change easily. [ don't know how he's 
himsell' 
through Northern Kentucky University. He joined the Air Force in 1986, the year he graduated with a bachelor's degree in math. 
His study is littered with plaques for commendations and medals, including one for landing a plane in October 1998 after a storm knocked out its instruments. 
His concerns over the anthrax virus grew after he was assigned to Dover Air Force Base in August. He said 12 to 15 members of his 250­member squadron were out sick with serious illnesses: thyroid damage, infected cysts and lesions. The only common thread was their illnesses fol­lowed anthrax injections, he said. 
"Never in my time in the Air Force have I seen such a sick unit," Bates said. 
During a visit to the base last month, Defense Secretary William Cohen said he had halted production of the vac­cine at a Michigan factory that failed an inspection by the Food and Drug Administration. But Cohen !said the inoculations would continue with stockpiled vac­cinfl. 
"We have enough safe, reli­able vaccine stockpiled to continue this for anotherlyear." Cohen said, adding that he had begun taking the series of six shots that make up the inoculation himself. 
That isn't enough to con­vince Bates. 
"J thank God every day or my life for my health," Bates said. "And I'll be dadgummed if I'm going to give it up for anybody. If l give up my health, not only can l not defend this country, but I 
lean't protect and provide for my family." 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 24, 2000 
THE FOLLOWING AUTHORS WILL BE APPEARING AT 
· THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE: 
Tuesday, January 25 at 2:00 pm 
Thomas Cahill, author of How the Irish Saved Civilization and The Gifts ofthe Jews presents his third volume in his Hinges of History series. Thomas Cahill invites readers into an ancient world to commune with some of the most influential people who ever lived with his new book, Desire of the Everlasting Hills. Mr. Cahill will also present a lecture on his "Seven Hinges of History" at 7:00 pm in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium, sponsored by the Keough Institute of Irish Studies. 

Wednesday, January 26 at 7:00 pm 
Walter Nugent is. the author of nine books 
and over 100 essays and journals. Recently 
retired from Notre Dame where he taught 
history(~!_.lllan)Tyears, Professor Nugent 
joins us t6!H1scuss and sign copies of his 
new book, Into the l¥1est: The Story ofIts 
People. 

Saturday, January 29 at 2:00 pm 
Ralph Mcinerny discusses and signs 
Grave Undertak · , the 19th installment 
. .
1ng mystery senes. 
the Jae .'tv'.fa.r' ••· n Center of Philosophy 
atthe · rsi -Notre Dame, where 
he has ta.light foihfuore than 40 years. · 


HAMMES 






NO~REDAME 
BOOKSTORE 

IN THE ECK CENTER 

Monday, January 24, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
TURKEY 
Turkish police find six more bodies in Tarsus 
Associated Press 
ANKARA 
Police dug up six bodies near a militant Kurdish Islamic group's hide-out in southern Turkey 011 St1nday, raising to JI the rrnmber of corpses uncovPred recently of people believed killed by the militants. 
The latest grisly discovery camp in a field in the town of Tarsus, 310 mil<~s south of the capital, /\nknra. In previous days, police had found 25 bodies buried in the basements or coal slwds of four housPs in Ankara, Istanbul and tlw central city of Konya. 
Police hl'li<wn the victims were 
slain by the Ilezbollah group. 
which aims to ost.ablish an 
Islamic state in Turkey's mainly 
Kurdish southcasl. Many of the victims had been tortured, and somP had hPen buried alive, newspapers reported. 
In Sunday's discovery, police found three naked bodies buried in a field inside sacks with the victims' hands and feet bound, the o!licial Anatolia news agency reported. Three other bodies, also with their limbs tied, wore recovered nearby. They had been buried 10 feet under­ground. Diggers also found two sacks containing clothing belonging to the victims. 
The gruesome finds follow confossions from leading mili­tants captured in a nationwide crackdown on Hezbollah. which means "Party of God" in Arabic. Police detained close to 150 sus­pected members after killing the leadf'r of the group's most mili­tant wing last week. 
The Russells' silverware got caught in a forest fire. 

So did the Russells. 
Today more and more people are living closer ;nd closer to the forests. That's why, today, forest fires kill more than trees. Please be careful. Only you can prevent forest fires. 

A Public Service ofthe Ad Council, the USDA, Forest Service andyour State Forester 
MEXICO 
Ruling party starts campaign 
state governor. was chosen Associated Press as the party's nominee after the PRI's first open national MEXICO CITY primary on Nov. 7. The pri­
Ruling-party candidate mary ended a tradition of Francisco Labastida began having Mexico's outgoing his campaign for the Mexican president select the PRl' s presidoncy Sunday, renewing candidate. The PRI has gov­a long-standing pledge to erned the country without fight corruption and promis­opposition for 71 years. ing to ''No one redesign the outside of government. "let's reconstruct in the the law, 
Labastida, no one
country a culture of
the candidate above the
legality and respect for
of the law," Institutional the laws." Labastida Revolutionary declared Party, or PRI, before a
Francisco Labastida 
formally crowd of opened his ruling party candidate support­campaign in ers that the historic included Theater of the Hepublic. a ruling-party governors, legis­site in lhe cenlral state of lators, and his three former Queretaro where his grandfa­opponents in the PRl's prima­
ther helped draft the coun­ry. 
try's first post-revolutionary "Let's reconstruct in the 
constitution in 1917. country a culture of legality 
Labastida promised to and respect for the laws," he honor the document's com­said. mitment to a country of hon­Labastida also promised to est and fairly applied laws, become a leader "future gen­saying he would "redesign erations will remember the government to give all of because he kept his word." its programs and actions the Criticized as dull and unin­quality, efficiency, and hon­spired, Labastida occupies a esty that the people deserve." middle ground in the Mexican 
interior secretary and Sinaloa those who stand for free-
market principles and those who favor a heavier state role in the economy. 
Labastida 's candidacy is buoyed by a strong lead in the polls, the absence of a strong opposition coalition, and the backing of his former primary contenders. 
In the elections on Julv 2. Labastida will face Vicente Fox, a former Coca-Cola executive and former gover­nor of Guanajuato state, and Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, the former Mexico City mayor who is a pillar of the Mexican left. Cardenas was defeated in two earlier runs for the presidency, in 1988 and 1994. 
Labastida promised that the elections will be "the freest, fairest and most hon­est in the history of the coun­try." 
His pledges to fight corrup­tion have provoked disbelief and attacks from critics such as Fox, who claim that the PRI was responsible for pro­mulgating a culture of cor­ruption during its seven­decade hold on power. 
But Labastida has defended the platform vigorously, and on Sunday he told his sup­porters, "We are going to combat corruption. We are going to eliminate impunity." 

Which one would you choose? 
The elephants? The whales? The clean air we breathe? Maybe the choice isn't so clear. Maybe you'd like a way to keep them all. Now the world's leading environmental groups are working together. To find out how you can help, look for us at www.earrhshare.org. 
.....~. 
On, mv;ro=<. One ,unpf, ~•y ,,~"fo, k. -~· 
Earth Share 
I 
---r-------------·--·------~---~--------------­
I 
I 




I ! VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
page 12 BSERVER Monday, January 24, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh [)111ing Hall. Norrc D,me. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF ,\-licl1elle Krupa 
.MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS l'\11.ANAGER  
M. Shannon Rvan  D.1vid Rogero  
AsST. MANAGlf',;G EDITOR  
Laurn Perelle  

NEWS EolTOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Arian Kessler 
SCENE EDIT'OR: Michael \'anegas SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Nor~en Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
Al>VERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Rret Huelar S,nEMS ADMINISTR.HOR: Michael Rner, WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CoNTROLI.ER: Timothy Lme GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jot Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFF1CE MANAGF.RIGENERAI INFO.............631-7471 
FAX............................................................ 631-6927 
.ADVERTISING.....................................63) -6900/8840 
ohserver@darwin.cc.nd.cdu EDITOR IN CIIIEF...................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME.................. ..631-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631-53 [3 NEWS..........................................................63 l-5323 observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu 
Y!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu S!'ORTS . ......................................................631-4543 
observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu ScENE..........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. J@nd.edu 
SAINT MJ\Ry's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631 -87 6 7 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at http:llobserver.,ui.edu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews
minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives m search for 
about The Observer 
ro meet the edirors and 
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudents of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves rhe right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, ierrers and columns present the views of the aurhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers to the Editor must be signed and muse include contact informacion. 
Question.< regnrding Observer policies rhould be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMi,-helle Krupa. 

TUCSON, Ariz. -Growing up, chil­dren are typically taught to paint and draw using watercolors, oils, markers, crayons and colored pencils. As a kid, Chris Ofili was apparently far Maggie from typical. 
Burnett 
Last September, the Senate publicly condemned Ofili University of for his outlandish Arizona artwork and even stripped The Brooklyn Museum of Art of its funding for the exhibit. This is all very absurd, especially since Ofili was simply using his unique art as a vessel for self­expression. 
One of the more talked-about pieces by Ofili, a picture of the Virgin Mary covered with fecal matter and cutouts of "butt shots" from porn magazines, was referred to as "sick" by New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani. 
Yet another, more local form of cen­sorship involves vulgarity on the Internet. Arizona State Representative Jean McGrath (R-GlendaJe) has pro­posed two bills, which, if made law, could prohibit students from surfing sexually-explicit Web sites on the Internet. 
Campus computers would be equipped with or subscribed to Internet filters, preventing access to this type of material. According to McGrath, if the material accessed on school computers is not related to a specific educational purpose, the student would be discon­nected immediately. 
This is not to say students every­where should overload school comput­er networks trying to access porn sites in case the filter becomes law. 
Frankly, anyone who would sit in a public area on campus to view online porn has a whole lot of nerve. But the government is trying to regulate free, unlimited Internet access to adults. Who's to say the proposed Internet fil­ter will only filter the smut? 
Before long, everything on the Internet could have to be censored, passed through a 
board of executives Instead ofworrying about forms of art and pre­and given a rating. what offends people, the venting grown, voting Logging onto a local adults from surfing 
American government 
Internet browser will certain parts of the soon seem like a needs to take a long hard Internet. weekend trip to the look at what truly But hope cannot be movies. lost. The people of 
does not.
These are two fair­ly hefty instances of attempted censor­ship and infringement on free speech. Both deal with prohibition of freedom, but who is to say where the line can be drawn? 
If the Senate feels the need to ban art that may offend certain people, then it is going to have to ban everything that offends people: clothing, books, music, language and maybe even food (sorry, Martha Stewart, your cherry tarts are just way too vulgar). 
Jnstead of worrying about what offends people, Jhe American govern­ment needs to take a long hard look at what truly does not. 
There is no right or wrong solution to censorship and questionably offensive forms of expression. What deeply dis­turbs one person might hit the funny bone of another. People all over the world have been arguing this fal£for centuries. Politicians like Guliani and McGrath have been poking around in other people's business since the begin­ning of time. 
There are homeless and hungry peo­ple on the streets, yet the American 
government insists on 
exerting its energy for 
"tattling" on rare 
America are the ones who elect these offi­cials, placing them in 
office. Guliani and McGrath can express their disgust all they want now. They'll see the difference on the bal­lot later. 
Maggie Burnett attends the University ofArizona. This column first appeared in the Arizona Daily Wildcat at the University ofArizona and is reprinted here courtesy of the U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
FROM NOW ON, 
ALL TEAMS WILL BE FORMED ON THE 
BA.SIS OF M'l'ERS­
BRIGGS PERSONALITY 
TYPES. 
E 
8 
g 
1..
..,
.. 
I 
IF YOU DO NOT HAVE A. PERSON­ALITI I ONE WILL 
BE ASSIGNED TO YOU BY HUMAN 
RE50URCES. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
WE NEED A QUIET 
DUMB GUY TO 
PAIR WITH AN 
EXTROVERTED THINKER. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When there is official censorship, it is a sign that speech is serious. When there is not, it is pretty certain that the official spokesmen have all the loudspeakers. " 
Paul Goodman author, "Growing Up Absurd" 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THf Monday, January 24, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Abortion issue still vital no matter what candidates say 
I've been slacking on my Some have said that the issue newspaper reading. is no longer relevant, that the 
I'll still glance at the New nation has already decided on York Times on the Web every legal abortion and so it is not day, but something they are going to I've start­Laura challenge. ed skip­Antkowiak This is wrong. Anyone who 
Like the sophomores' interviews for the reac­away to attend. shouldn't it be the family's deci­ping over thinks that abortion is no tion article in l~riday's paper, I am also sion to make whether to send a child, not the articles longer an important issue of Pxtrern<•ly rlisappointP<l in the cancl'cllation of UniVPrsity's" Just how I decide whether or not about the Right to Life our time, or who thinks that a Snplrnmorn Siblings Wf\ekencl. it's worth it to come all the way here from Cuban boy legal decision makes killing 
Tlw front. pago article• by Laura Rompf thal Honolulu, Hawaii. to att,md school is up to me. controver-right should talk to the more Pxplairwd t!H• Offici> of' Studfmt J\ctivitil's' rna­:vfy family saw the importance of this event sy and the than 100.000 people who sons !'or its cancPllation l'rustrntcd me even and was finding a way to send my younger upcoming presidential primary march for life in Washington, morP due• ln whnl I spc as ridiculous n•asons brother here for the visit. The absurdity of the elections. Perhaps I'm not giv­D.C., every year. There one will and justifications for their actions. Low atten­last reason in regards to decreasing family size ing them enough of a chance. lind people of all ages, of all dance, Notrn Danrn's "national nature" and the does not even deserve to be acknowldeged. but I want to follow a candidate backgrounds, from all over the "national trnnd in the decreasing size of fami­The bottom line is that the tradition of Notre who says something new and country who feel a passion for fips" an• laughabl,• Pxcus,~s for cancelling the Dame has always emphasized the importance says it from the heart. the gift of life and !'eel called to weekend. I ser-m tD recall a line that stretched of family. Freshmen get Orientation Weekend, Just past the anniversary of speak for those who cannot. out of' South Dining Hall all the way across juniors get Junior Parents Weekend and seniors Roe v. Wade and 27 years of At the same time, let's hear South Quad at last year's Pvcnt -the number get Graduation Weekend. legal abortion across the the politicians spread the new ol' peoplP thal wpm Lhere to enjoy the event was What about the sophomores? United States, I am still not and refreshing message that not insignificant. hearing anything new on the many pro-life organizations, 
Sncondly, just lwcausc !\Jotre Dame students Malia Lam abortion issue from the 2000 including our own here at conw from all 50 statiis and from many nations Sophomore presidential candidates. I'll Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, is not a mason to cancPl the event. While it Lyons Hall ignore the Democratic primary, are striving to advance. Let's might lw mon• dil'lirnlt for siblings from farther January 21, 2000 as Vice President Al Gore and respect life not just in our ver­
former Senator Bill Bradley bal position on abortion, but on both staunchly support abor­other political issues and how tion. The 11 candidates initially we live. And let's talk about entered in the Republican race what we can do for those ranged the political spectrum women who do give life to their on the topic. babies. Adoption and parenting
Bush anything but compassionate 
Most claimed to be pro-life, are not easy things to do, but but many wanted to downplay they are honorable. It's got to 
In rcspollS(\ to Briclg11t O'Connor's column While drug use is a large problem in our the issue. To some extent, this take guts to run for president. hiday, c;ovcrnor Georg<) W. Bush may like to country, prison for first-time offenders is not makes political sense. The It's going to take more to do prnach that lw is a "compassionate consnrva-the solution. Bush has slashed spending for abortion debate can at times the right thing. Think about it LivP." but his policies ccirtainly do not support drug rehabilitation programs, both in and out get very shrill and just boil when you fill out your absentee this rlaim. of prisons. instead using the money for more down to the many slogans we ballots this spring. 
Sine(' lw became' governor, Bush has over-prison beds. Enough money is spent every 36 already know. A candidate sc,m tlw exflculion of' 113 prisoners in Texas, hours in Texas housing drug offenders to put needs to appease a wide vari­Laura S. Antkowiak is a whi('h is mon• than one execution !'or every two the entire drug offender population in rehabili-ety of people in order to get the senior government major and and a hall'weeks he has been in office and 20 tation programs for an entire year. Bush has money and the votes needed to co-president ofNotre Dame p<'rcent of the executions in America since capi-stated that "incarceration is rehabilitation," but win a national election. Right to Life. tal punishment was r<'\instatcd in 1976. statistics don't play this out. But some candidates have The views expressed in this 
Bush has signed the death warrants of A Texas state agency found that the done something worse than column are those of the author many typrs of people: those who _ __,,,~--~ recidivism rate for inmates who com-ignoring the abortion issue. I and not necessarily those of wcrn juwniles at the time of · ~~~•':-,._..:,;.~_;:....:,_· -<;:_ plete a treatment course is 20 will spare names so as not to The Observer. tlwir crinrn; a gay man whos,\ •>'"t··-·-~-percent less than for inmates appear to be endorsing a par­
public' dof'cncler n•fPrrnd to ~-----=~---, who do not. Since Bush is ticular candidate at this point. gays as "queers" and heavily rumored to have 
"fairicis" and slept during used drugs recreationally tlw trial; a born-again f\)iili~.!iii.i while he was young, you Christian woman would expect him to go whom PV<'ll tlw pope "lb~~• easy on those making madP a pl11a to sparn; l=:RiilP!""'!" the same mistakes he 
mentally ill prisonnrs: did. mPntally retardPd This is not compas­prisoncrs; and at sion. lnast om) diagnoscid Due to his famous paranoid schizo--......._;~4f...,:,11,1 name and his pander­
phrnnic. ----------'[". ·ng to any group that i\n11rnsty . viii listen to him, lntt:rnalional has <'.ihid · -•· overnor Bush has Tt\xas's dPuth row with · merged as the early numerous violations of' ont runner in this year's international human right presidential election. His lrnaties, and rnprnsentalives election will do much harm to of foniign dictatorships have the country. Bush has little poli.ti­toure<l Texas's dPath row to learn I experience {he once stated that how to run their operations more eiTicient-Bill Clinton shouldn't be president because ly. 1\lthough this may bn in lino with cm1serva-he had only boen a governor, yet Cl.inton had live be lids, it c1\rlai11ly is not compassionate. far more governing experience before his elec­(;overnor Bush's drug policiP.s also are by no tion than Bush docs) and seems to have no firm nwans compassionate. Under Governor Ann opinions on any matter ofpolitical importance. Hiehards. Bush's predPcessor, first-time minor Make sure that before you vote on election drug offenders rnnlived automatic probation day that you know about the candidates and with drug counseling. Bush quickly did away that you are not simply voting for them because with thnsn policies and first-time offenders now thcv have lots of money, a famous name or are farn prison time -even for the possession of claiming to be something they clearly are not. lt1ss than one gram of narcotics. Many rccre­a tional users hav,\ been sentenced to prison on Kevin Luecke evidence lhal re4uirnd lab testing to detect ihe Assistant Rowing Coach prnscncn of drug residue in tlrnir dothing. January 21, 2000 
you. two columns. friday. 
south dining hall. 

TIIE 
OBSERVER
page 14 
University of Notre Dame Cultural Diversity Timeline 
"vt'e are tied together in a single garment ofdestiny. caught in an inescapable network ofmutuality. And whatevPr affects one directly q_[fPcts all indirectly ... this is the u•ay God'suniverse is made, this is the wa!J it is structured." 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., March 31, 1968 
1988 In response to the 1987 Provost's Committee on Minority Students Report, President Malloy announced a university-wide enrollment plan to increase the presence of minorities at Notre Dame, and "to create a University community clll'iclied by minority presence among students, 
faculty and administrators.'' By the next year, the freshmen class minor­ity enrollment was raised from 11 percent to 15 percent, the goal of hiring 14 minority faculty was met and $12 million was a<lded to an endowment fund set aside for minor­ity scholarships. 
1992 The Task Force on Cultural Diversity, comprised of students, faculty and administrators, present­ed a final report of recommended actions for creating: 
• 
a more diverse student population and faculty; 

• 
academic support services for minorities; 

• 
inclusion of cultural diversity in the curriculum; 

• 
cultural diversity programming and residential life; 

• 
expansion of the Office of Mino1·ity Student Affairs; and 

• 
inclusion of "becoming a commu­nity of harmonious cultural diversi­ty" in the Notre Dame mission state­ment. 


The first annual "Celebration of the Life of Dr. Martin Luther, King, Jr.'' is planned and implemented at Notre Dame. 
1997 A crowd offans at a Bookstore Basketball tournament divides along lines ofl·ace. In response to con­cerns raised by lettern to The Observe1·, the Task Force on Cultural Diversity recommends changes to the organization and administration of future tournaments. 
When a racially-offensive comic strip appears in The Observer, the group PEACE (People for Equality, Action, Community and Education) forms to bring about cultural and racial tolerance at Notre Dame. 
A series of "Listening Sessions" with President Malloy, then Vice President of Student Affairs, Patricia O'Hara, and Provost Nathan Hatch, are held. 
1989 
The "Year of Cultural Diversity" is celebrated on campus, and declared a great success in heightening cul­tural awareness. 
1991 Students United For Respect (SUFR) is formed by a group of minority stu~ dents to call attention to shortcom­ings in the University's commitment to insure a welcoming and inclusive campus climate. A demonstration and sit-in is held at the Registrar's Office. 
Father Malloy creates the University Task Force on Cultural Diversity, and issues an "Open Letter on Cultural Diversity." 
1993 Keenan and Lewis Halls host a one­day event focusing on diversity at Notre Dame. 
1995 Keenan and Lewis Halls annual one­day multicultural event becomes "Diversity Week." 
1996 An African American student sparks a serious re-examination of race relations at Notre Dame with her letter to The Observer, describ­ing a racial incident which she experienced on campus. This letter becomes the focal of three forums entitled "The Race Issue at Notre Dame: Who's the Victim." 
'l'he Task Poree on Cultural Diversity is reinstated by Father l\'lalloy. 
1998 A conference is held at Notre Dame to examine reinstating the Latino Studies Program on campus. 
African American administrators Chandra Johnson and Davis Moss are appointed Assistant to the President and Asst. Vice President of Student Affairs, respectively. 
Monday, January 24, 2000 
ND celebrates 
"We refuse lo lwlieue that there arc insufficient funds in the great 11cwlts ofopportunity ofthis nation. So u•e have come lo cash this check, n check thnt will giue us upon demand the riches offreedom and the security ofjustice.·· Mary Anne 
Lewis
In 1929, Mrs. Martin Luther King, Sr. gavP birth to Martin Luther King. Jr. 
Just H years later. King presented 
Scene Writer
his dream of desq~T"gation in the mo::;t famous civil rights speech Anwrica has known. 
King grew up in a world where people lived differnnt lives based on the color of tlwir skin. A hlat·k person could not sit next to a white p1\rson on a bus. A blal'k pNson could not drink water from tht' sanw fountain as a white person. A black pnrson did not havn the sanrn t:areer opportunities as a whitr1 p<1rson. 
But King dared to dream differently. He dreamed of a world in which boys and girls of any ('Olor could attend school togntlrnr and learn l'rom one anotht~r. llis vision was onn ol' richnnss. in which diffnrern·es werr 1\mbrared and apprPciatPd. 
"Now is the lime lo make justice n reality for all r~f' (ioc/ ·s children." 
Martin Lutlwr King Day was last Mondav. ThP dav cPIP­brated not only King's accomplishmPnts, but also his idnals. As tlw Notn· Dam(! t:<!lnbratPs tlw holiday this week. it is important that Pach mPmber of' the Notn• l)am<' com­munity pt>rsonally captures King's spirit. 
If' lw were lwre today. if' hn walked on campus. walked past the gold1)n dome, walkPd past tlw dorms and walked into the mind of' a typical Notre Danw studPnt. what kind of' prrjudicrs would hP find tlwrt>? Pr•rhaps the grPatrst ]ps­son a person ran learn from King is tlw lesson of' sPll'­examination. 
King's nrnssagc was one of' dnsegrngation. That nwssage still applies today. lr1ss for surh obvious things as tlw rnlor of' a person's skin. and more !'or subtler things such as rPli­gion. sociorconomic status or sexual prpfpn•nce. 
Orm Notre Dame student. who wislws to r<'main anony­mous said: "I think that them arP many opr1n-mindPd stu­dents on this campus. but l still don't think that we beliew in cvnrything that MLK was righting f'or." 
Wlwn ashd if King would be happy with what lw were to see on this campus. junior Timothy Brick said, "On this campus? Cornparnd to his day, yes. On the otht>r hand. r.omparnd to otlwr colleges. no. The 'normal' and 'liberal' portions of' tlw world arP rPally VPry tolerant. It's only tlw rnally, really conservativn and/or psycho factions ol' tlw country that might l'rightnn him." 
Frnshman Christin<' C:an•y said, "I think that tlw Univnrsity tries to put up a false l'arn of tolt'rancP. It is. however. blatantly obvious how prPjudict>d tlw UnivPrsity and,,many of' its studt!nts arn toward ('(irtain types ol' pno­pln. 
Gt·wrge Coppingr1r, a junior, addPd, "I rnn't imaginl' hp'd bn torribly pleasl\d. You S!H' most groups around campus and thp,y're segrcgalnd. Furtlwr. our campus is not in gPn­eral very divnrsn or open-minded. Take the subjert of homosexuality for exampln." 
··r;o back lo Mississippi, go back to i\labama. go back to Soulh Carolina, go hack to Georgia. go back ro J,ouisiana. go hack lo the slums and ghetlos of our northern cities, 
1999 Hispanic professor Gilberto Cardenas is hired as the Director of the reinstated Latino Studies Institute. 
The Intercultural Center has its grand ovening to reaffirm Notre Dame's commitment to serv­ing the intercultural needs of the entire stu­dent body. 
Office of Student Affairs institutes the Practicum on Diversity Education, and the mandatory Cultural Diversity Seminars facili­tated by students, and held in the dorms for all incoming freshmen. 
By RENE MULLIGAN AND CHANDRA JOHNSON for the Dr. Manin Luther King. Jr. University Celebration 

C s 
Monday, January 24, 2000 page 15 

LK, Jr. and his mission 

k11orri11g that somf'how this silualion can and 11•i/l he chanqecl." 
From his youlh onward. King showed the girts of' passion and discipline. In 1948. al tlw age> of I 9. King graduatPd from \11uirPhousP ColkgP without evnr having gradualPd from high school. Five years lalt•r. hn married Coretta Scott in Marion. /\la. King WPnt on to recPivr his Ph.D. from lloston UnivPrsity in 19'.i'.i. During the sanw y1•ar. llosa Parks was ,trrested bc,cause she n•fusPd to gi\•c up lwr seat on a bus to a whitn man. 
BPcausP King dared to think difl'rrently. bc·r·ausP lw dPvotl'd his lil'r to his vision. he far!'d tPrrorism. Bombs W(:re thrown onto his porch. Shots wcrP l'in~d. Nanws were ralll'd. Bul King rontinu(,d. 
I11 I 938. llarp<'r and How published King's book "Stridn Toward Frerdom: The f\lonlgonwry Story." Soon afterward. King was stabb1\d in llw ("hrsl during a book sign­ing in lfarlem. Still. he continurd. The Fre1\do111 Hiders rode and the marrhtlrS marclwd. tlw protnstPrs protested and the police ,tlTPSl(\d. 
In l 9(13. King wrote his famous "Letter l'rom a Birmingham .fail" and thP vision took hold. In th1, sanw year. thn Supreme Court nil1•d Birmingham's sr.grngation laws unrnnstitutioual, and King delivered his "J havri a dream" sper.rh on the stPps or the l.inrnln MPmorial. King went on to receivP tlw Nolwl l'Pace Prizr. in Oslo. Norwav, th1~ l'ollowing year. King's speech touclieJ mil­lions throughout thP nation. 
"/ hetre a dream lfl(l/ one day Lltis nation u•ifl rise up and fire out rhe tme meaning uf its creed: /IT hold these lrn.lhs lo he selfeui­dcnt that all 11w11 are created equal. 
"/ hm·r a dream. llrnt one clay on the red !tills (!{Geor9ir1 the sons of.funner :;lcwes and lh<' snns ofjiirmn· slnre ow1ir•rs wilf he n/Jlc lo :;if lo9c•lher ct/ Ihe table of brot!wr­hooci. 
"f hm·e n dream, that one rlay r•Nm the stu/1' 1ifMississippi. astute sweltering wilh !he• heat r~l i11j11sfice. s,retlering u,ifh the hl'af of oppression, rl'ill he transformed into cu1 oasis r~{Ji·,,,,c1om and justice. 
"! fiat·r• n dream, that my.four little rfril­rlre11 fl"ill one day lire in a nation where /hey 1rilf not fw;udgcd by the color of/heir skin hut liy the content oftheir character. 
"'/ hm1e a dream tuciay! .. 
This speech dnfined the moral basis that would serve as the foundation of the civil rights movement. Before his death. Kennedy had created the Civil Hights Bill. Finally, the Civil Bights Act of' 1964 took hold of segre­gation and tossed it aside by prohibiting racial discrimination in public places. and by calling for equal opportunity in employ­ment and education for African Americans. 
In 1965, Congress passed another bill entitled the Voting Bights Act of 1965. This bill allowed African-Americans to vote in all public clt1ctions and came into action partly because of a protest in Selma, Ala., that King helped organize. The protest indudcd a maJTh from Selma to Montgomery, the state capital. It was interrupted with tear gas and police brutality, but the point came across loudly and clearly. They would fight for their rights using weapons of words and tactics of peace. 
In 1968, the life of Martin Luther King Jr. came to an end when a sniper assassinated him at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis. lie died moments later in St. Joseph's Hospital from a gunshot wound to the neck. 
In 1842, Father Edward Sorin started this Liniversitv. He, too, had a vision. A vision of young pe~iple learning to use the gifts of knowledge, wisdom. discipline and integrity in order to better this world. With the cele­bration or !\1artin Luther King Day, it is important for Notre Dame students, faculty and administration to think about the strong correlation between the visions of Sorin and King. 
Both Sorin and King worked for a world in which people would rise above petty judg­ment a.nd dosed minds. a world in which people would learn togP-tlrnr and work together f'or L11e good or one another. 
If Kin~ were to walk onto this campus, one hopes that be would be pleasr.d. It is up to each individual to eradicate prnjudices and to confront any foar of those who are dilTPr­1~nl. 
"And u•hrn this happens, when we allou· freedom to ring, when we let it ring from euery village and el'ery hamlet. from every state and every city, we will he able to speed up that day when all of God's chil­dren, /Jlark men and white men, Jews (Ind Gentiles. Prolestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiriltwl, 'Free at last, free al last. Thank God Almighty, we are free al last. "' 
SCENE ASKS 
What does Martin Luther King, Jr. mean to you? 

"MLK is a true example of standing up for your beliefs in • 
the face ofadversity. He utilized non-violent measures to help blacks attain equality. He is an inspiration to us all." 
Angela Lyzinski freshman, Cavanaugh Hall 
"Through MLK's '/ have a dream' speech he has inspired millions and demonstrated how through perseverence anyone can bring about change." 
Shannon Lacy junior, Cavanaugh Hall 


"Serves as a reminder/or all ofthe accomplishments my people have made and yet reminds me that the struggle continues." 
Antwoine Wellington senior, Sorin Hall 
"In a time when hope for change seems to be last, MLK offers an example of the importance of hope in the struggle to make our 

•
world a better place for all." 
Jay M. Smith junior, Knott Hall 

"Remembering MLK ... causes me to further realize how fortunate I am to be where I am today; i.e., the University ofNotre Dame. " 
Francesca Milles-Dave junior, Cavanaugh Hall ;, 
"MLK, J1: was a man who symbolized equality, jus­tice and peace. Ile is an inspiration to me for constant action with regard for social justice." 
Chelsie Venechuk junior, Welsh Family Hall 

Photo poll by MARY CAL ASH/The Observer 
~ -­
Monday, January 24, 2000 
Women 
continued from page 28 
late in the second half to turn a 19-point deficit into a five-point game with 10 minutes left on the clock. 
"They made some real good shots," said Green. ··we had some pretty nice looks too, but we just weren't able to make them. They refused to givi, up, even when they were down by a lot WP turned the ball over a lot -we need to learn to limit turnovnrs so we don't giv<' othPr teams a chance to get back in the gami,... 
The Irish settled clown and repratPdly took the ball to the basket in the final minutes, outscoring the Hurricanes 20-3 to secure the win. Green led the charge as time wound down, scoring eight or her 22 points in the last 10 min utcs. 
Despite a strong outing by guard Niele Ivey, who had 1 l points and livl~ steals, the Irish concentrated their offense 
The Observer . SPORTS 
under the basket. 
"Niele Ivey is an unselfish player -she's always looking up court to see who's open," said Green. "I give her crodil for our transition game. A lot of' times we don't even have to set up u-n offense because we can score so quickly." 
Dominating at the post. the Irish plu-yors combined for 48 of their 76 points from lay ups. 
"We're a very good team on thr, fast break," said Green. "Our slrat<)gy is to get it under the basket -it is our big focus 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Another Seminole arrested 
Associated Press 
TALL/\! IASSEE. rla. 
Sebastian Janikowski, Florida State's two-time All-American kicker. was arrested at a night­club early Sunday and accused of attempting to bribe a police officer into releasing his room­matr. 
The arrest was yet another problem v.ith the law for the championship Florida State team. 
Bribery is a third-degree felony but it is up to the state attorney's office to officially charge Janikowski. However. police said he can be charged with greater or lesser offenses. 
Janikowski was released from Leon County jail at 7:42 a.m., on $1,000 bail. If found guilty, he faces up to five years in prison and a $5,000 fine. 
The arrest stems from a dis­pute at The Grove nightclub. when' police officer Chris Knight was working as an off­dutv bouncer. The dub told Kni.ght that Janikowski was welcome, but his friends were not. police said Knight told Janikowski's roommate, Aaron Silverman, LO leave. 
Silverman refused, and af'ter several warnings was taken into r,ustody. police• said. Janikowski approached Knight as he was doing paperwork in his patrol car and asked a few questions. 
When Knight loohd up again. "Janikowski was smiling at him and counting out money," police said. "Janikowski stepped back to the car and asked 'How much?"' 
Police said Janikowski offered $300 to persuade Knight to let his friend go. 
Janikowski has kicked 50 field goals the past two sea­sons. and most of his kickoffs were beyond the end zone. He is the only current player on a recently selected college team of the century. 
Earlier this month, Janikowski said he will leave school a year early to enter the \!FL He has said he wants to 
turn pro so his mothr,r in Poland can join him in thP United States. 
.Janikowski is known to frn­quent late-night spots around Tallahassee While in New Orleans for the Sugar Bowl, he mis!:ied curfew. 
The Seminoles' most promi­nent legal trouble this past srm­son involved star wide receiver Peter Warrick and teammatr Lavcranues Coles in connection with a department store scam. 
Warrick was suspended two games and reinstated after pleading guilty to a misde­meanor. Coles was kicked off the team. 
Several other players also had run-ins with the law. rang­ing from marijuana possession to drunken driving. 
Janikowski's arrest came only hours after he was hon­ored at a rlorida State football banquet. Earlier Saturday, the entire team was feted by more than 25,000 fans at a ccdebra­tion also attended by the gover­nor and several top state~ offi­cials. 
and it worked well against Miami." 
Sroring wasn't the only strong point for the Irish as Lhcy out-rebounded the Hurrir,anes 40-27. 
The Miami defense had trou­ble containing Irish center Huth Riley and forward Julie Henderson. Hilev scored 15 points and Henderson added 
13. as they led the Irish to an impressive 54 shot percentage. 
Henderson had the only dou­ble -do u b Ie between the two teams, with a game-high 11 
page 16 
rnbounds. 
The Hurricanes, a team that has struggled to remain above the .500 mark, fell to 8-8 on the season and 2-3 in Big East play. 
Center Martha Bodley scorr,d 13 points to lead the Miami squad, which shot only 39 per­cent from the field. 
The Irish will only have a few days to prepare for their next conference test -the squad will be back in action Wednesday when they travel to new York to take on thP Hcd Storm of St. Johns. 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
Williams falls in straight sets 
Associatcd P rc,s 
MELBOUHNE, Australia 
Serena Williams held out her palms as if pleading to the heavens, trying to figure out why nothing was going right. 
She talked to herself, talked to her racket, and still she whacked balls into the net as though her arms had inexplica­bly lost all their strength. 
The 18-year-old U.S. Opcm champion sank in a sea of errors at the Australian Opc,n, going down in straight sets in the fourth round against Elena Likhovtseva. 
Williams, who had looked so sharp in her previous victory, could barely control the ball in a 6-3, 6-3 loss replete with 32 
unforced errors  - a  doznn  
more  than  the  No.  1 (>  
Likhovtseva.  

"I couldn't make any shots ... 
I couldn't do anything," said the third-seeded Williams, who came into the Australian Open after not playing a match in three months. "There's no excuse for me to have lost this match. I just couldn't find my rhythm throughout the whole match. · 
"I don't why I made so many errors. I just didn't do anything right." 
Williams refuted suggestions that she was unprepared for the Australian Open after com­ing here from Florida just a few days before. 
"I was here long enough." she insisted. "That's no excuse." 
Unlike her net-charging style earlier and in her U.S. Open title run last September. Williams rarely attempted to attack against the Hussian baseliner. 
The Observer ,icceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content wirhout issuing refunds. 
Next Friday is a visual work of  
A coaches-backer night. Does it get  We can't have some stupid dome  genius.  
WANTED  FOR RENT  FOR SALE  any better?  team win the Super Bowl.  
...............,. ....,. ......................  
COACH Need Jr. High girls coach- Beautiful brass bed, queen size.  Where else can you find poop  
responsible.dependable.student or  Need 2 tickets to UConn basketball  with orthopedic mattress and  congrats, smc bus. majors. Now  It would be the end of all that is  jokes and Ice Cube?  
grad to coach 7-Bth grade girts bas- game on 2/12. Very important!  deluxe frame. New, never used,  that the comp's over no more  good and righl in this world.  
ketball B-team.Jan-Mar;for south- Call Colleen at 634-1481  still in plastic. $235  excuses1 You're going out!  
side elementary school.located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami  *......................_,,, .............,••••  219-862-2082  That's all for now folks  
Street. Must be available for prac­ '95 CAMARO, RED, T-TOP,  Go! Titans! Go!  
!ices Mon-Thurs from 2:20­ LOADED, 45K. MINT COND.  GATA' and AG -Jump Backll!  
3:15.Game schedule vanes with 9­ $11,500 OR B/O.  
10 games beginning after school at 4:00,or S+p.m.Paid position.Call  TICKETS  219-291-5471.  Houston Oiiiiiilers!  Wait, maybe not  
291-4200 to apply.  96 Ford Ranger XL. 54k mi.,. CD  Marie -Nobody spun us around,  Houston Oiiiiiiilers!  
6 BDRM HOME.FURN.AVAIL  player, man. trans. $7000, obo.  but we still had fun! Even though  Perhaps the greatest fight song  
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK  NOW.$150. PER. 272-6306  Call Tony, 273-5319.  you were a tad late!!!!!  ever.  We got a little more to go  
Imagine hiking over thousands of  
acres of almost untouched  SPRING BREAK 2000  looking for pole dancer to join me  
lrails,brealhing in fresh.crisp Rocky  2-6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272­ PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  at the backer. .. :J soooo scaryrnr  
Mountain air with the lingering  6306  FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND- Pete,  Can you still?  
scent of pine trees. Imagine con- PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT  Stop slinking  
quering the challenge of biking lhe  THE "FUN PLACE"!  Agnes -Two Tae Bo tapes makes  
famous Going-to-the-Sun Highway  TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN­ 12 drinks not count, right?  
or screaming from the breathtaking  3 bedroom duplex  MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPO- Frasso, what happened to your 10  You can'! handle the Ruth!  
thrill of whitewater rafting.then the  appliances,WID  RATED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE  dollar beard trimmer?  
peaceful serenity of setting up  1 mile from campus  HARD BODY CONTESTS  
camp next to a turquoise blue glac1·  273-8332  3 POOLS LAZY RIVER WATER  Congrats to Holden Bonwit on his  
er lake Imagine no moretSt. Mary  SLIDE HUGE BEACHFRONT HOT  award tor the week of January  or the Chuk  
Lodge & Resort.Glacier National  TUB MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP  23rd-30th. He's on. lire'  Just sen . the stupid thing back.  
Park's finest.is now hiring for !he  SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  
2000 summer season.Benefits  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  1-800-488-8828  
include guaranteed bonus and low  AND CLOSE  WWWSANDPIPERBEACON.COM  or the Frasso  
cost housing.We will be on campus  hltp://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  When you can gel eighl NFL Films  Only Pete is dumb enough to keep  
February 2.Call (800)368-3689 to  ema1l:rnmmrentals@aol.com  videos for eight dollars, you know  a broken beard trimmer and try to  
schedule an interview or e-mail name and mailing address to  232-2595  PERSONAL  you are money ­especially ii you can get the Rams and the Oilers.  fix it  no, wait. you can handle the  
jobs@glcpark.com for an applica- Frasso.  
lion.Check out our web site at  www.thecommentator.com  
www.glcpark.com to learn more  6 BEDRM. '00-'01  Seven...  
about lhe opportunity of a lifetime'  $1200/mo. 273-0482  Chas ... artsy..  
Flippin' it with the beard trimmer  
Work for an exciting College  Freshmar, female with kitten wish- Did we "hace fin" or what?  
focused company at your school!  es to share existing 2 bedroom  What's up with that stuff?  
Looking for motivated individuals  apartment with female student  Titans will win the Super Bowl  
with slrong leadership, entrepre­ through spnng semesler of 2000.  know what I am saying?  
neurial and business skills. Tech  112 of rent is $302 plus 1 /2 of elec­ AG-Thanks for trying to protect me  
skills not required. Great experi- Irie and phone. Close proximity to  at The Backer. You're my hero'  Ya know?  
ence, pay and options' Contact  Notre Dame. Call Wendy at 219­ love, SR  Please God, they have to  no  
info@uconnections.com  254-0452.  


up to you. That is, if you shop at VarsityBooks.com. At VarsityBooks.com 9"'~-,-JI"'~ave up to 40% on your 
d 
textbooks, get them in one to three business days, and all of this from a Web site that's completely reliable .. and secure. So there you have it, you decide. 
SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS. 
Savings off distributor's suggested price. Books delivered in no more than three business days. Some restrictions apply. See site for details. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 24, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Michigan State upsets No. 4 Penn State, 71-63 
Associated Press 
EAST L\NSING. Mich. 
Becky Cummings scored 18 points and Kristen Rasmussen had 17 as Michigan State beat 'Jo. 4 Penn State 71-63 Sundav. snapping the Lady Lions' 12­game winning streak. 
The victorv markPd onlv the, serond time Michigan State (14-4. 5-2 Big Ten) has beaten Penn StatP (16-3. 7-1). 
Sti11ing a high-powered Penn State offense that has averaged nearly 80 points, the Spartans held Penn State to just 25 sec­ond-half points, holding Penn State scoreless for more than eight minutes. The Lady Lions shot 24.2 percent in the second half. 
The Lady Lions relied on 12 first-half points from Andrea Garner to keep the Spartans in check. taking a 38-35 halftime lead. For the Spartans. offen­sive production from the post was never a problem. Sparked by 10 first-half points by Cummings, the Spartans man­aged 26 of its first 30 points from the post. 
No. 14 LSU, Mississippi 59 
Marie Ferdinand matched her career high with 25 points as No. 14 LSU beat Mississippi. extending its Southeastern Conference winning streak to four games. 
DeTrina White added 13 points and 15 rebounds, Katrina Hibbert had 12 points and April Brown 11 for the 
Lady Tigers 114-2, 5-1 SEC.I, who took sole possession of first place in the conference. 
No. 2 Loulsianna Tech 85, 
Western Kentucky 61 
Louisiana Tech coach Leon Harmorc knows that Bettv Lennox can be deadly when she's patient. 
LAnnox had no troublA killing off any chances of her team being upset. matching a career­high with 31 points as the third-ranked Lady Techstcrs beat Western Kentucky. 
Lennox made 13-of'-21 shots. including 4-of-8 3-pointers. and added seven assists, six steals and five rebounds as Louisiana Terh (13-2. 4-0 Sun Belt Conference) won its third straight since a 90-63 loss at No. 1 Connecticut on Jan. 2. 
No. 13 Illinois 82, 
Northwestern 65 
Allison Curtin scored 20 points. helping No. 13 Illinois snap a three-game losing skid with a win over Northwestern. 
Tauja Catchings added 19 points and Shavonna Hunter scored 14 for the Illini (15-7, 5­3 Big Ten). Leslie Schock scored 18 for the Wildcats (6­11, 3-4). 
Catchings scored seven points in the first 12 minutes of the second half as Illinois main­tained its eight-point halftime lead. Hunter sank two free throws with 8:39 left and Catchings hit a drive with 6:52 remaining, pushing the lead to 
62-50. 
No. 22 Mississippi State 85, 
Alabama 65 
.Jennifer Fambrough scored 21 points and LaToya Thomas had 20 Sunday as No. 22 Mississippi State snapped a 26­game losing streak to Alabama with a 85-65 victory. 
Texas 81, 
No. 6 N.C. State 77 
Alisha Sare and Edwina Brown each scored 25 points as Texas held off No. 6 North Carolina State 81-77 on Sunday in the ACUBig 12 Challenge. 
Texas (12-6) led 75-67 with two minutes left after Brown hit two free throws before North Carolina State used a 8-2 run, including four straight foul shots by Summer Erb, to pull within 77-75 on Amy Simpson's 3-pointer with 21.5 seconds remaining. 
No. 8 Iowa 79, 
North Carolina 67 
Iowa State coach Bill Fennelly liked everything about his team's victory over North Carolina except the way it ended. 
Led by Stacy Frese's 16 points. No. 8 Iowa State showed outstanding balance and was terrific on the boards in beating North Carolina for its 10th straight vic:tory. 
But with Iowa State's reserves in the game after the Cyclones had built a 30-point lead, North Carolina began pressing in an attempt to whit­tle the deficit. 
No. 7 Georgia 68, Auburn 54 
Kelly Miller had 19 points and seven assists to lead No. 7 Georgia to a win over Auburn. 
The Lady Bulldogs (19-2, 4-1 Southeastern Conference) capped a week that saw them beat No. 2 Tennessee 78-51 on Monday and whip Georgia Tech 86-58 on Thursday. 
Auburn (15-3, 4-2) had its 12­game home winning streak snapped. ThP. crowd of 5,612 was the fifth-largest to ever seP a women's game at Beard­Eaves Memorial Coliseum. 
No. 2 Tennessee 71, 
Kentucky 65 
Michelle Snow had 18 points and seven rebounds as No. 2 Tennessee built a big first-half lead and held o/'f a late Kentucky charge to win. 
Tho Lady Vols (14-3, 4-1 Southeastern Conferenccl rebounded from their worst­ever SEC loss, a 78-51 defeat Monday at No. 7 Georgia, but not before getting a scare from the Wildcats (11-7. 3-3). 
Tennessee led by as many as 20 points in the first half but watched Kentucky close to within two in the final seconds. 
No. 18 Old Dominion 76, 
American 51 
Lucienne Berthieu had 13 points and 13 rebounds as No. 
18 Old Dominion beat American for the 19th consecu­tive time. 
Old Dominion (13-3, 6-0 Colonial Athletic Association) took advantage of 24 Eagles turnovers and 15 offensive rebounds to extend its confer­ence winning streak to 89. 
American (9-6. 2-3) led 9-6 lead with 15:32 remaining in th<) first half. but was outscored 38-15 the rest of the half. 
No. 21 Tulane 84, South 
Florida 78. 
Jandl Burse scored I 9 points and No. 21 Tulane overcame a 17-point sec:ond-half deficit to beat. South Florida. 
Trailing 65-48 with just over 11 minutes left. Tulane outscored South Florida 21-3 and took a 69-68 lead with 3:42 remaining. Burse had nine points during the run. 
Sarah Goree's jumper and Grace Daley's f'astbrnak layup sparked a 6-0 spurt that put Tulane ahead 79-73 with 1:01 left. The Green Wave ( 16-2. 5-2 Conference USA) won its sec­ond consecutive game after dropping two straight. 
No. 19 Purdue 71, Indiana 65 
Katie Douglas scored 24 points and grabbed 15 rebounds as No. 19 Purdue held off Indiana in overtime. 
Purdue (12-5, 4-3 Big Tenl led 38-30 at the half. but Indiana rallied to tie it at 54 on Jill llartman's 3-pointer with 7 :25 left. 
Summer Service Projects 
WHAT ARE YOU DOING THE SUMMER OF 2000? 
. 
8 weeks ofservice learning with the underservea 

. 
$1700 tuition scholarship 

. 
Valuable alumni contacts 

. 
3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists . over 200 sites across the U.S. and abroad Cr Possibility ofadditional $1100 Americorp funds 


'It 
Applicalioa, are available al lh• CIC-opplg no,u!
csc 
CENTCR FOR 
Dctadlinct: Jan 18"' (1ollin9 acceplance,) 
SOCIAL 
Qued·ior,$7 Call TR4CY a.,. 631 .tJJ/.02.
CONCERNS 


Monday, January 24, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
condiment 

-
spaghetti sauce 
., 
When you're broke, you look at things in a whole new way. 
So for textbooks and stuff, hit ecampus.com. You'll save up to 50%. And shipping's always free. 
ecampus~com 
Textbooks & Stuff. Cheap. 
rip to Jamaica for Spring Break. No purchase necessary. Sweepstakes begins 01/03/00 and ends 02/17/00. Open to US residents, 18 years and older. Void where prohibited. For details see Offi v.ecampus.com or send aself addressed stamped envelope by 02/10/00 to: c/o Rolling Stone Spring Break, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, NY, NY 10104. (WA and VT residents may omit return 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 
Late LeClair goal ties Penguins 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
John LeClair scored with a minute to play and . the Philadelphia Flyers tied the Pittsburgh Penguins 4-4 Sunday night despite squandering a third-period lead. 
The Penguins led 2-0, fell behind 3-2 as the Flyers· top­ranked power play scored twir.e, then took back the lead at 4-3 on goals by Jiri Slegr and Robbie Brown 1:04 apart in the third period. 
But with the Penguins trying to run out the clock and win for the second time in seven games, LeClair directed the puck past Tom Barrasso at 19:00 of the third -his 26th goal and 11th in his last 15 games against the Penguins. 
The Penguins, playing their third consecutive game without the injured Jaromir Jagr (ribs), remained winless in overtime ­0-5-4. The Flyers, also without their star as Eric Lindros sat out with a concussion, are 3-2-7 in overtime. 
The Flvers had been held to thrPe goals while going 0-3-1 in their previous four games. 
Slegr made it 3-3 at 6:06 of the third with a shot through tratlic from just inside the top of the left circle that eluded rookie goaltender Brian Boucher, who had allowed two goals in his previous two starts. 
Slegr, scoreless for 16 games, was so happy he finally scored that he took several strides on skates and banged his chest into the glass along the left-wing boards. ·.-yqf 
The Penguins, outshot 33-16 at the time and 39-27 overall, retook the lead at 7:10 when Brown. stationed along the goal line. punched in the rebound of Jan Hrdina's shot for sixth goal and second in as many nights. He also scored in Pittsburgh's 4­2 loss at Montreal on Saturdav. 
German Titov, who critici~ed coach Herb Brooks last week in a Russian newspaper interview for his lack of playing time, scored twice in the first 3:02 as the Penguins -losers of five of six -jumped into a 2-0 lead. 
But the lead and the sudden burst of offense from a team that was held to 29 shots in its previous two games didn't hold 
up. 
The Flyers, reconfiguring their lines with Lindros out and Rod Brind'Amour gone after being dealt to Carolina for hold­out Keith Primeau earlier in the day, had plenty of scoring chances but couldn't convert 
-enough of them. Philadelphia outshot Pittsburgh 20-4 in the first peri­od and killed off a five-minute Penguins power play early in the second period, yet trailed 2­'l until Marc Bureau scored his 
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTL4.L SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, JANUARY 28th FROM 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
second goal at 15:27 of the sec­
ond. 
Bureau, normally the seldom­
used fifth-line ccntn. moved up 
to the fourth line to repla.1:e 
Simon Gagne, who shil'tt~d to thr. 
top (ine and put the Flyers 
ahead 3-2 with a power-play 
goal at 18:30 of the second. 
Coyotes 3, Sharks 2 
Jyrki Lumme flipped the win­
ning goal into the net with 44 
seconds left in overtime and 
sent the Phoenix Coyotes to a 
victory over the San Jose 
Sharks. 
The victory kept Phoenix in 
first place in the Pacific Division 
with its division-leading 26th 
victory. The Coyotes are 10-4 in 
their division and 20-9-2 against 
Western Conference, the best 
marks in the conference. 
Keith Tkachuk assisted on the 
winner, passing to l.umme 
about 15 feet out in the slot 
while being knocked to the ice. 
San Jose goaltender Steve 
Shields, who was at the side of 
the crease and could only flail at 
the puck as it flew past. 
The game started hours after Carolina traded Keith Primeau to Philadelphia, ending specula­tion that Coyotes owner Richard . Burke wanted to unload Tkachuk and his $8.3 million salary to acquire Primeau in a three-way deal involving the Hurricanes and New York 
Rangers. 
Signs supporting Tkachuk dot­
ted the America West Arena, 
where Burke claims to have lost 
$23 million in the last two sea­
sons. One said, "Keep Tkachuk, 
Trade Bobby Smilh" .~ a refer­
ence to the Coyotes general 
manager. 
Rick Tocchet and Louie 
DeBrusk scored earlier for the 
Coyotes, and Todd Harvey and 
Owen Nolan had third-period 
goals as the Sharks surgod 
back. 
The Coyotes' Sean Burke 
made 28 saves, including 12 in 
the third period. But Burke 
allowed two goals in the final 
period as the Coyotes blew a 
two-goal lead in the third for the 
second time in three games. 
This time, though, the Coyotes 
recovered thanks to Lumme's 
seventh goal and 99th of his 
career. It was the Swedish 
defenseman's 400th career 
point. 
Nolan got his 30th goal on a 
one-timer with 7:25 remaining 
in regulation. Harvey broke up 
Burke's shutout on 2:09 earlier, 
scoring on a rebound for the 
Sharks' third power-play goal in 
their last two games. 
Stars 2, Blackhawks 2 
Rookie Roman Lvashenko scored goals 10 secc;nds apart early in the third period night, lifting the Dallas Stars to a comeback win over the Chicago l3lackhawks. 
Lyashenko, who had just two goals in 25 previous games, tied it 2-2 at 1:02 after picking o!T Bryan McCabe's pass. !-IP. then beat Jocelyn Thibault for the game-winner l'rom the right cir­cle. 
Mike Modano also scored for Dallas, which has won three of' its last four ganrns and improved its league-best road record to 13-9-4. 
Doug Gilmour had a goal and assist for the Blackhawks, who have l.ost three straight and four of five. Michael Nylander also scored for Chicago. 
Thibault stopped 19 shots and Dallas' Ed Belfour blocked 24. , 
Nylander opened the scoring with a power-play goal, set up by Gilmour's behind-the-back centering pass. at 6:24. Gilmour made it 2-0 at 13:58 by popping a rebound past Belfour after Tony Amonte had driven to the net. 
Kings 3, Avalanche 2 
Glen Murray and Jozef Stumpe! scored in their first game back from the injured list as tlrn Los Angeles Kings ended Colorado's six-game unbeaten streak with a victory over the Avalanche. 
Ziggy Palffy had a goal and an assist and Luc Robitaille had two assists. helping the Kings hand the Northwest Division leaders their second loss in 13 games (8-2-3). 
Adam Deadmarsh and Dave Reid scored for the Avalanche. 
Los Angeles needed just eight shots to grab a 3-0 lirst-period lead against rookie Marc Denis, who entered with three straight victories. 
Pa!ffy and Murray opened the scoring with power-play goals less than two minutes apart against a penalty-killing unit that in the last six games had allowed only one power play goal in 27 short-handed situa­tions. 
Peter Forsberg was serving a penalty l'or roughing up Craig Johnson when Palfly opened the scoring at thP. 8:51 mark. Denis stopped Hob Blake's one-timer from the left circle with his glove, but Hobitaille got the rebound at the left of the net and slid the puck behind Denis and through the crease to Palffy for the easy tap-in. 
Murray. who missed the pre­vious three games because of a bruised chest, scored his 15th goal from the edge of the crease on a pass from Jere Karalahti. 
Stumpe!, out for seven games with a bruised left knee, made it 3-0 about with 5:Hl left in the first with a wrist shot from the right circle that glanced off Alexei Gusarov's left skate and over the outstretched right leg of Dnnis. 
Monday, January 24, 2000 
NBA Nelson picks up 900th victory 
Associated Press 
There won't be an asterisk in the record books to denote Don Nelson's 900th victory. 
Still, beating the Pistons without Grant Hill was a lot easier than doing it with Detroit's superstar in tho line­up. 
The Mavericks took advan­tage of Hill's absence and made Nelson the sixth NBA coach to reach 900 victories as they beat the Pistons 99-91 Sunday.. 
'Tm just glad I won't have to talk about it any more," Nelson said with a smile. "The thing I'm happiest about is that it was won the way gamns are supposed to be won. I'm only going to remem­ber that everyone played hard for us. we changed strategies and made adjustments and then we found a way to win it in the end." 
The Mavericks were also shorthanded with Gary Trent on the bench with a strained groin. They made up for it with a balanced attack, led by 22 from Cedric Ceballos and 18 from Michael Finley. Ceballos and Finley also pulled down 10 rebounds each. 
"That's the way this team plays -we go to whoever is hot at the time," Ceballos said. "And we love winning. Yesterday, after the Nr,w Jersey loss, everyone was quiet. The room was quiet, the bus was quiet and the plane was quiet. But the nice thing about this league is that you can come right back and get it off your back. That's what wn did tonight." 
Hill sat out with a bruised hip and back suffored Saturday in Chicago. He is not expected to play again until at least Thursday. Jerry Stackhouse led all scorers with a season-high 36, but Jud Buechler has the next highest with a season-high 12. 
Raptors 94, Supersonics 77 
While Vince Carter looked on from the sideline, the 
HAVE YOU HEARD? 
AALIP: African American Leadership Intern Program 

The program offers :1 academic credits and i2300 !!!l!i!!!! scholarship for a 10-week service-learning experience. Students are immersed into Latino and African American communities through the country where they serve as a leader and student ofthe community they are working in. Students have the opportunity to witness the strengths, issues and needs ofthe into Latino and African American communities in our country. 
Where: The Center For Social Concerns 
(Coffee House) 
When: Monday, January 31, 2000 Time: 7:30 pm -8 pm 
Seattle SuperSonics did most of' their watching on thf\ court. 
With Carter forced to sit because of foul trouble, the Toronto Haptors ran all over the Supersonics with a victory that snapped a three-game losing streak. 
"There's a couple guys on this team that aren't coming out to perform," said Seattle guard Gary Payton who had a game-high 29 points. "We nfled to do something about this. We beat three or four 
good  teams  and  then  we  
revert to this."  
Carter.  who  scored  13  

points in 25 minutes, got into third-quartor foul trouble and didn't play in the fourth for Toronto, which had lost five straight to Seattle. 
"We got something from everybody," Carter said. "I enjoyed it actually to be a cheerleader." 
Tracy McGrady and Antonio Davis each had 17 points and 11 rebounds for Toronto. Kevin Willis also had a dou­ble-double with 12 points and 12 rebounds as the Raptors outrebounded the Sonics 53­34. 
Timberwolves 99, 
Warriors 81 
Terrell Brandon wasted lit­tle time re-establishing him­self as the driving force behind the Timbcrwolves' of'fcns.ea.~ r-,f_innqsµta set a team· rncord with its fifth straight road win. 
Brandon, returning to the Minnesota lineup after miss­ing three games with a strained right calf. had 15 points and nine assists as the Timberwolves defeated Golden State. 
Kevin Garnett had 22 points and 15 rebounds for Minnes6ta, which has won nine of' its last 10 road games. Before the recent streak of success, the Timberwolves had lost 17 of 18 away from home in a stretch that began last season. 
The Timberwolves have won four straight overall and 15 of their last 18. 

Monday, January 24, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
2000 SUMMER & INTERNSHIP 
JOB FAIR 
Sponsored by The Career Center 
Thursday, January 27, 2000 
12:00 noon -4:00 p.m. EVERY MAJOR! 
EVERY DEGREE! EVERY GRADUATION DATE! 
Bring your resumes to the North Donze (Hockey Rink Side) Joyce Center Arena! 
ABN AMRO/LaSalle Banks AFLAC AT & Tl Finance Alcoa Allegiance Corporation Allstate Insurance Company American Express Financial 
Advisors American Management Systems Amway Corporation Andersen Consulting Arthur Andersen BDO Seidman, LLP Bank One Corporation Baxter Healthcare Corporation CSG Systems, Inc. Camp Sweeney Cargill Cassady, Neeser & Brasseur Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. Chase Securities, Inc. Ciber Incorporated Clarity Consulting, Incorporated Clarke Environmental 
Mosquito Management College Gifted Programs Compaq Computer Corporation Credit Suisse First Boston Dana Corporation Davis, Conden, Enderle & Sloan Deloitte & Tonche Delphi Automotive Systems Discover Financial Services Enterprise Rent-A-Car Ernst & Young Ford Motor Company General Electric General :Mills General Motors Geneva Youth Center Hewitt A~sociates Hill & Knowlton Honeywell 
IBM 
Illinois DOT Indiana DOT INTEL Corporation Isanogel Center KPMG, LLP Kajima Construction Services Legal Services of Northern Indiana Meijer, Inc. Meritor Automotive Minnesota Life Nabisco Biscuit Co. Navigant Consulting Northwestern Mutual Life Notre Dame Council for International 
Business Development PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble (3 Divisions) Right Services, Incorporated SARG -Student Alumni Relations 
Group Signature Graphics, Inc. South Bend Silverhawks State of Indiana -State Personnel Dept. Student Conservation Association 
TRW 
Technology Services Group Tellabs The Associates The Mony Group, Inc. Tucker Alan, Incorporated United States Air Force United States Marine Corps University Directories Virtualintern.com William Mercer, Inc. Wolfram Research, Inc. 
-

Resume/Document(s) drop 
AMS Tech Fox News Channel Alliance for Health Reform Goldman Sachs American Business Press Gregg M. Rzepczynski & Associates American Civil Liberties Union Jdyllwild Arts Summer Program American Legislative Exchange Council Indiana Dept. of Transportation American Rivers, Inc. Johns Hopkins University Center Americans for Democratic Action For Talented Youth Appalachian Mountain Club Kids Corporation Appel Farm Arts & Music Center Lake View Hotel -Mackinac Island Aquarium of Niagara Mandalay Pictures & Television Au Pair in Europe McGraw -Hill Publishing BUNAC-Work in Britain Merrill Lynch Burke/Triolo Productions Mid-America Committee Center for Campus Organizing Monterey Bay Aquarium Chestenvood Museum Research Institute Comerica Bank Museum of Contemporary Art Concordia Orchestra Musiker Tours & Summer Discovery First Investors Corporation NASA -Johnson Space Center 
-
Naval Historical Center New England Financial Nordam Overseas Private Investment Corp. Plimouth Plantation Project Future Project on Government Oversight Random House Roswell Park Cancer Institute Rubin, Brown, Gorstein & Company Sagemark Consulting Sigma-Aldrich Corporation The Atlantic Council of the U.S. The Brookings Institution Vector Marketing Corporation 


get him going and get his con­fidence back." 
Playing at home certainly helped Notre Dame's confi­dence shooting the ball. The Irish shot 62 percent from the field and connected on a school record 14 three-point­ers. 
"Every team has been hav­ing a field day with us lately," Pitt forward fiicardo Greer said. "Today they were red hot and it killed us. We tried to go to the zone to prevent Troy Murphy from scoring. We knew Graves and Carroll could shoot but were more worried about Murphy. The others that shot well all year just shot well todav too." 
Th·c Irish also got some extra help from their bench, which combined for 29 points and 12 rebounds. 
"Some guys weren't as sharp as they've been so I thought it 
The Observer . SPORTS 
was important to get some guys in there," Doherty said. "Jere played very well in David [Graves'] absenr,e and Mike Monserez gave me a comfort­able feeling while he was on the court." 
Martin Ingelsby also had a strong showing with 11 points and live assists in 24 minutes. 
Notrn Dame committed 22 turnovers and attempted 20 fewer shots, but out-rebound­ed Pittsburgh 32-24. Pittsburgh, however, shot just 42 percent from the field com­pared to Notre Dame's 62 per­cent. 
Jarrett Lockhart and Greer each scored 20 points for the Panthers. Greer also had eight offensive rebounds and seven steals. Chris Seabrooks added 17 points in the losing effort. 
The lrish return to action Tuesday when they host Miami. 

Learn about the many ways to get involved in local and summer service opportunities. Meet with representativesfrom campus clubs and community organizations. 
Where: The Center For Social Concerns When: Tuesday, January 25, 2000 Time: 7 pm-9 pm 
Monday, January 24, 2000 
Irish prove they're deadly from downtown 
Irish fans may know Matt Carroll can knock down a thrnC1 and that David Graves can get into a groovp ['rom behind the arr. 
But they never saw tht1 Irish drain 14 three-point­ers in a game like they did Saturday in an 81-6(1 win over the Pitt.sburgh Panthers. 
Notre Dame sr.ored more than hair of it.-; points from three-point land, brr~aking thr. previous school record of' '13. The team shot an astounding (ii percent l'rom long distance, touring apart Pitl.sburgh 's defense. 
As Notre Dame won by the three, Pittsburgh lost by the three. Not only could the Panth11rs not prevent the rod­hot shooting of the Irish, they only shot 23 percent on their 26 shots from behind the arc. 
"I think that's 38 in three games," Pittsburgh coach Ben Howland of the number of thrne-point shots the Panthers have given up of late. "With our lack of depth, it's hard for us to play much man-to-man. I think that they along with the other four teams we've played in the Big East [St. John's, Connecticut, Seton I!all and Syracuse], are all NCAA tfmms, and I would be surprised if that doesn't hap­pen." 
Balancp, in the game was kC1y for th11 Irish, as five players hit multiple treys for the Irish in the Big East victory -Carroll, Graves, Troy Murphy, Martin Ingelsby and Jere Macura. 
"At times you think that Troy's the only one that can score," Notre Dame head coach Matt Doherty s.aid, "But we've got other guys that can knock the ball in thr. basket." 

The Irish WPre hot from the beginning as NotrP Dame was hitting its shots from the open­ing seronds, as Murphy and Carroll scored three-pointers on the first two possessions. 
Carroll and lngelsby each 
dialed long distanr.1~ three 
times, while c;ravcs and 
Murphy were both two for four 
from three-point range. 
"It doesn't matter who 
sr.ores," lngelsby, a senior point 
guard, said. "We've got some 
n~ally good shooters. If we're 
hitting our shot.-;, it's going to 
make Murphy more elfer.tivc." 
But it was the freshman reserve Macura who was thP most surprising sharp shooter. Ile hit four thrn11-pointers in the first eight minutes. 
"He's a grnat shooter," Dohertv said. 'Think back to Indiana, he had 13 points in tlrn Ind'iana gamr.. I want that Jore back." 
Macura, who averages only 
4.3 points per game in his first season at Notre Dame, scored 12 points in 20 minutes. 
"Macura impressed me," Howland said. "Hr. has great form as a shoott1r. Ingelsby we knew was a grnat shooter. We were late getting to him [on his shots]." 
Every player who took a shot from behind the arc for the Irish nailed at least two. All five shot 50 percent or better in the con­test. 
Doherty said the team's improved offensive execution was a big factor in the hot shooting. 
"We worked a lot since the Syrar.use game on our zone offense," Doherty said. "Because against Syracuse, we didn't exe­cute our offense very well. We've got good shooters. If they can get open, I feel confident they can get the shot." 
The l'ieu-s expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer 


.. 
-
;., 
page 22 
Ga01e 
continued from page 28 
the kev. I've been hurting his confid~nce." Whatever it was that was holding Notre Dame (12-7, 3­
2) back, Macura and the Irish responded Saturday with a 81­66 victorv over the Panthers (8-8, 0-5) in front of 10,030 fans at the Jovce Center. 
"It's nice· to win again against a team that I think is a very good basketball team," Doherty said. "I was very con­cerned. After two losses you want to come home and play well for yourselves. for your team and for the crowd." 
Macura came off the bench to hit four three-pointers and finished with 12 points, while Troy Murphy scored a game high 21 to lead the Irish . 
"I felt very good off the bench and in warm-ups," Macura said. "I thought this was going to be my day." 
"He's a great shooter. He hasn't played as well over the past few weeks," Doherty added. "So hopefully this will 
Support your 
teams. 
Attend their 
games. 
Monday, January 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
r
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish break records, finish second in season opener 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assis~mt Sporrs Editor 
Freshm«'n Jamie Volkml-lr and Tanwisha King began lhPir Notrr Danw tnu:k carerrs in a big way. setting thnw school records between 
tht'm in I<' ad in g Noln' l>anw to a near­,. i C ( P r V Fridav. · 
·• Y ;l LI' Vf' 
got to lovl' it." head lnu·k and field rnacb Joe l'iane said. "\\'hat a wonder­ful lirst mP1'l f'or f'rcshmrm. and all of Lh!'ir pcrf'ormanc.cs c.an score at tlrn Big East nwrt. which is ulti­malPly the goal of tlw indoor sea-
SOil " 
!\otr<' Dame !'ell to Hall State 1(,9 to l(J:i. Parning a secon<l­plw·1• finish in tlw quadrangular 
11H'PL 
Volkmc.r won th!' polP vault with a l(iap of 11-foPt. brnaking thr old !\Jotrf' Dame record of 10­(i. She took third place in setting a new Irish standard in the triple jump with a mark of 39-3 1/2, smashing the old record of 36-9. 

'Tm really excited about it," Volkmer said. "I was really ner­vous going into Lhe firsL meet, so rm just glad things wr.nt well." 
King erased the old long jump record of 18-1 1/4 ·with her win­ning jump of 19-5. 
''It was my first jump, and my first jumps are never my best jumps," King said. "T was actually hoping Lhat I could jump 21 feet, but 19-5 is a good start." 
In addition to th<' two rerord­breakers. senior high jumper Jfrn Engelhardt lmtpt 5-10 to earn a provisional qualification for the NCM lndoors Championships in March. 
Besides the field event winners, tlm Irish captured four individual victories in thB running events. 
Sophomore sprinter Liz Grow had a doublP victory. Grow won the 60-mcter dash by onc-hun­drndth of' a sel:ond over Dorotlrna Game of' WestArn Michigan. and two hundredths of a second over Ball State's Keisha Cowin. Grow crossed the finish line in 7.74 sec-
FREE 
6INC:HSUB! 

Coupon & 
Purchase 
Of Medium Or 
Large Drink 

Required! 
WHEN? 3 HOURS ONLY! Thursday, Jan 27th from 5 -8 PM WHERE? ONE PLACE ONLY! SUBWAY-1706 South Bend Ave 
(Near ND-Next To Welsh Service Ctr) 
Order Your Super Bowl Party Sub Now! 

Co'1p<>I1 
t"llEE 6 lnt•h S11h \\Tith P11r«.•hase Of Jlt•tli111n 01• l.argtf! ltrink! 

:,PEPSI 
Coupon Required. RegularSubs Only (No Dbl MeatorExtra Cheese). One FreeSub PerCustomer. Not GoodWith OtherOffers. Good Onlv (rt 1706South BendAve,Jan 27th, 2000, i -8PM. 
onds. She also won the 200-meter dash, blowing the rest of the field away with her time of 24.74 sec­onds. 
In the 600-rneter run, it was yet anothf'r freshman beating out the wmpetiiion. 
Ana Morales, moving up from her usual sprinting events, took first place in 1 minute, 35.58 sec­onds. 
Junior Leanne Brady had one of the best races of her career as she won the 800-meter run in 2 min­utcs.1 G.69 seconds. 
The long distance events of the mile and 3000-meter run w<'re weaker areas for the Irish Friday. 
With senior All-American Alison Klcmmcr sitting on the sidelines for another week, and several m.her distance runners competing in events they might not normally run. Notre Dame couldn't get a runner to place above fifth. 
"As a whole. I thought we had a lot of balance," Connelly said. "It was probably the most balanced team we've ever had. 
"ThP addition of Tameisha King and Jamie Volkmer really helped us in evenl'> we weren't as strong 
in.•' 

Hockey 
continued from page 28 
would prove costly. Reynaert lost his goal stick and Bishai gave him his. but then picked up the goal stick to play the puck him­self. The penalty for illegal stick would carrv over into the over­time periol 
In overtime, Carlson was the hero once again. His goal 52 sec­onds into overtime ignited a cel­ebration by both the Irish play­ers and fans. Carlson's game­tying and game-winning goals gave the Irish a trilling come­back victory highlighted by three goals in the final 4:18. 
"Dan Carlson was the best player on the ice tonight," said Poulin. "There were a lot of good players but he was definite­Iv the best." 
· The Irish had 21 shots on goal in the second period with no goals to show for it. They came back out in the third and put 25 shots on goal. In addition to tlrn impressive offensivB sho½·ing the Irish defense took the Bronco's 2nd ranked powerplay out of the game -limiting them to few scoring chances. 
"After the second period, I thought that we had played our best period of the year, until the third," Poulin said. "We were dominating and losing, but our attitude through the whole game was we are going to find a way to win. It was an enormous win for us." 
Notre Dame carried the momentum over from the first game to take an early lead on Saturday night to pick up its sec­ond straight win with a 4-1 win. 
Dusbabek scored less than seven minutes into the game on a hard slap shot from the blue line. With the lead the Irish kept the pressure up, both on offense and defense, and never looked back. 
Ryan Dolder added a power play goal with six seconds remaining in the opening pBriod to stretch the lead to two. Carlson added a power play goal early in the second to give Notre Dame eight power play goals in its last13 goals scored. 
The defense continued to keep Western Michigan off of their game, limiting the number of good scoring chances and effec­tively killing eight Notre Dame penalties. 
Freshman Michael Chin scored the fourth Irish goal at the 15:51 mark of the second period ­finally capitalizing after several good scoring chances earlier in the game. 
Zasowski's shutout bid ended 
Ki Aikido 
Mondays -7:30-9:30 Beginning February 7 
/~\ 


! (\ \ Demonstration ~(' J'anuary 24 · 7:45pm Rockne 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Class Fee is $19 Call 1-6100 for More Information 
R~~ 
when Western Michigan finally found the back of the net seven minutes into the third period. 
"We were much better tonight [in the second game]," Poulin said. "We had a controlled effort from the start. We give out game pucks to the guys that play very well and this time the puck went to the whole team." 
Dusbabek finished the week­end with six points -one goal and two assists in each .game .,.... while Carlson added four points (2G-2A). All four Notre Dame lines contributed strong play to the offensive outburst in the series. The Irish scored seven goals over a 40-minute span car­rying over from the last five min­utes on Friday and into Saturday's game. 
Notre Dame has struggled in the second games of series, but the strong play this weekend finally broke that problem. The Irish are now 5-2-2 in the first games and.2-5-2 in the second. 
"It was definitely a factor going into the game," said Poulin. "We knew that we had to put back-to-back games togeth­er." 
The sweep pushed Notre Dame (10-13-5, 7-7-4 CCllA) into sole possession of fifth place in the CCHA. The Irish trail the fourth-place Lake Superior State Lakers by just three points. 
-
Want to 
write for Sports? Call 
1-4543. 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 24, 2000 
AFC CHAMPIONSHIP 
Titans win title with third victory over Jaguars 
Associated Pre>5 
JACKSONVILLE. Fla. 
The once-homeless Tennessee Titans never felt so c·ozy on the road. And they're not donr~ traveling yet. 
''kxt stop: the Super Bowl in Atlanta against St. Louis. 
:\nlf'rica's wand1'ri11g waif's, \vho havP playi'd in four stadi­ums in thrn~ cili,1s in four sea­sons. upset tlw .lacksonville laguars 33-14 on Sunday bt>hind tlw scrambling of' Steve \lcNair and a dPfonse that forc<'d six turnovPrs. 
file Titans trailed 1.+-10 at tlw half but si·on'd 1<, points in about 4 1/2 minult!S in tht~ third quarlPr to pull away. 
It"s thc first Supt-r Bowl trip t'\'Pr !'or thr~ franr hise that bPgan in tlw old .\FL in I<JhO. Thl· Hams. who lwat thP Tampa Bay But'.Cilll(H'rs 11-0 for tlw NFC ti LIP. op1•1wd as 8­point t'an,rit,~s. 
"It's about tinw." said Titans ownl'r Bud ,\dams. who found­t'd thP l'ranchisP in lloust.on then movPd it aftpr the 1995 season wlwn lw c.ouldn't i:;et monPY for a nrw stadium. 
''1'111 gPHing prl'tty old. I didn't \rnnt to go to tlw Super Bowl in a whePlrhair." 
'\lrNair almost had to use a 
whPPlrhair bPforr, th<' game. 
Ill' spr.nt much of the week 
"At onP point during the wePk he couldn't even touch his toe without it killing him," tight end Frank Wycheck said. "For him to go out and have the day he did is just unbeliev­able. lle's a leader who leads by example and we follow him." 
There was little pain in Mc·Nair's stats -except to the Jags, who won 15 games this year and lost just three. all to the Titans. 
McNair ran ninP times for 91 
yards. inrluding a 49-yard 
scramble to sPt up one of his 
Lwo 1-yard sneaks for touch­downs. Ile also had a 9-vard touchdown pass in thc first quarter to Yancey Thigpen, who left in the second quarter with a broken toe. The Titans also lust safe.ty Marcus Hobertson with a broken anklP. 
This was the third step in a long. strange trip to the Super Bowl for Trnnesser. 
ThP Titans won their first playo!T game on the most improbable of plays -a lateral bv \Vvcheck on a ki1·koff rnturn that KPvin Ovson took 75 yards for the wir{ning touchdown against Bnlfalo with thrne sec­onds ldt. 
Last WP.ck, Tennesstie shut drw:n PPyton Manning and the high-µowr>red Colts and won 19-H, in Indianapolis. 
.\ml this \\f'Pk tlwv rnntinued their mast.Pry ovt';. Lhe .lags. who had the NFL·s lwsL rcgu­lar-S('ason record at 14-2 and nuslwcl Miami (12-7 in their tirst playoff gamP last \\'Pe k. 
TPnnPssec ,,011 Sundav as it has all sN1son: a little oi'fonsn. a lot of defense. and n, big con­tribution from special teams. All of' it turned during the 16­point spurt in 4 minutes. 28 SHco11ds in the third quarter. 
It began with a six-play. 76­vard drive that endPd on ·the go-ahPad touchdown on a sneak bv McNair. 
Forty--three of the yards came on penalties -15 on a roughing the passer call when McNair somehow ducked out ol' a 10-vard sack bv Kevin llardv. rolled IPfl and cr;mpleted a 15­yard pass to Eddie GPorge. 
"You can't play sloppy in a game like this and win," said Jacksonvillfl tight end Kyle Brady. who caught a touch­down pass but fumbled twice. 
Brady's first fumble came on 
the next sequence. Jason risk 
recovered at the Jaguars 35. 
then Wycheck returned the 
favor by fumbling back to the 
Jaguars. 

SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 2000 
DO SOME'Il}!I)t,,l!Q 
DIFFERENT 

-~} ACCION -FEBRUARY 17, 2000 
~~ · WATCH FOR INFORMATION MEETING TIM£ COMING SOON! 
..J!,,x!;_l, LEADERSHIP INTERNS-FEBRUARY 21, 2000 
~~~ 
~ 'f' . • AFRICAN AMERICAN 
• HISPANIC INFORMATION MEETING: WHERE: CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS (CoFFEf HOUSE) 
WHEN: MONDAY, JANUARY 31 TIM£: 7:30 PM -8 PM 
:jp!1,, INTERNATIONAL SUMMER SERVICE PROGRAM 
Z,'x{!!f
ur (DEADLfNE PAST) 
~ SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS -JANUARY 28, 2000 

INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS FOR ALL PROGRAMS ARE AVAILABLE AND DUE AT THF. 
CENTER FOR 5oo.AL CONCERNS 

Two plays later. Fisk and Josh Evans sarkPd Mark Brunl'II in th1\ Pn<l 1,01w for a sal'Ptv, and it was 19-14. It was tlrn shth sal'ety this season for Tennessee and sncond in the playoffs. an NFL rncord. 
It also set up seven more points: On the ensuing free kick. Derrick Mason. who ear­lier set "It seemed like cverv­thing clicked and we took over the game th£m." Evans said. 
TPnnessrrn's trip to thP Super Bowl next Sunday follows three straight 8-8 seasons. one · in llouston. one in Memphis and the third and Vanderbilt Stadium in NashviilP. This YPar. in thPir 1ww home at \d(\lphia Colisnum. they wPnt 1:~-:~ and qualif'ind as a wild card, a ganrn bnhind Jacksonville in tlw AFC CPntral even though they beat the Jaguars twice. 
The Titans' success is espe­r,ially remarkablr, considering how close thr,y came to losing in the wild-card game against Buffalo. 
"I never thought that it would happen -reaching the Super Bowl." said Bruce Matthews, the 17-year veteran who has played his entire 
Holy Cross: 
rarP1>.r vdth the Oi!Prs-Titans and holds the rpcord for most games played by an offensivP lineman (2641. 
The win was swept for all tlw vetnrans. who have played in Pmpty stadiums bPfore apa­llwtic crowds and had played mediocre football l'or most of a decade. 
"I kind of sold myself on tlw idea that it wasn't that impor­tant," Matthnws said. "To watch other teams playing the championships and going to the Super Bowl every year, you build up a barrier more than anything. But it's nice." 
The Next Generation 


ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 

----~---._..~--w_.,,-.w-•-------------.-~-·------·---·-----------------~-­
Monday, J:rnuary 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
..
NFC CHAMPIONSHIP 
Rams hold on against Bucs, earn trip to Super Bowl 

We would like to express our greatest appreciation to all of those who participated in Project Warmth this year! ­We successfully collected approximately 1500 coats. This would never have been made possible without the outstanding efforts of Notre Dame students, faculty, and staff. .. 
We would also like to thank our sponsors for the 1999-00 Project Warmth. Special thanks to: GEAR, St. Michael's Laundry, Warren Golf Course, the College of Business Administration, and Student Government. 
Through all of the cooperative efforts, we were able to continue 

Associated Press 
ST, LOUIS 
Thnir ol'fonsf' imploding. their cover blown. the St.. Louis Barns lookPd readv to head home. · 
Then Kurt Warrwr playnd like au MVP. gr'.tting tlw Midw,,st ExprPss ,lliark Lhc on«' louf'hdown it nP!'cled. Th<' unhl'r­1dd,·d ddPnse did the rPsl. and the Hams won thn chancP to play tlH' Ten nnssee Titans in the Super 
Howl. 
Warner hit No. 4 wid<' rPcnivnr Hirkv l'roPhl wilh a :rn-ya;·d touchdown pass with 4:44 r0maining Sunday to lift St. Louis past tlw Tampa Bay BLI('(:anPnrs 11-() l'or tlw !\l·C: drnrnpionship. 
"It didn't matlPr who did it." tlw quar­tcrburk said. ",\s long as he was wearing a lhtmsjPrsey, it didn't maltt~r. 
"Bul whPn it ronws down to making a play. W<' 0 V<' made plays all year long. l{kky canw through today.,. 
Prof'h!'s touchdown was his first of the iwason and lw f'inislwd with six catdrns for 100 yards. No1w of thosr> -or the :n l'<'t'Pptions lw mad<' this S<'ason, or the 4(J7 ol' his <'lltirt' I0-yPar c1trf'er -meant anything rlosP lo his lPaping grab over backup rnrnt~rbal'k Brian Kc>lly. 
·Tm tlw guy thcy'rp always trying to gPL rid of'," lw said. 'Tm Lim guy they arn al1rays trying to rPplarP. You know. tlwrp's 100 Hirky Prochls out then'. I beg­to diffor." 
Tennessee. whirh won the AFC crown in .Jacksonville :-n-14. handed thn Hams tlwir first loss in their SPVPnth gamP or tlw spason. but 01w1wd as underdogs. 
"\.Vp know wp'n• in f"or just as tough a ganw against tlw Titans," said Warner. a f'ornwr An•na Leagupr who got a rhancl' lo play this year only bncause starter Tr('l1\ (;reen wrPckPd his knPe in the pre• 
Sl\1lSOl1. 


KRT 
St. Louis defensive lineman Grant Winstrom sacks Tampa Bay quarterback Shaun King in the Rams 11-5 victory. 

P~JEC 
WARMTH 
Tampa's gallant defensive effort looked like it would be enough to steal the victo­ry. 
Kut quartPrback Shaun King made sev­eral critical mistakes down the stretch, including an interception at mid field by fellow rookie Dre' Bly that set up the win­ning drive. 
"We brought them into our zone, w11 brought them into our misery.'' said Warren Sapp. the Defensive Player of the Yr.ar. "and we had them down 6-5 and just kept battling ... and it came down to one play." 
Tampa Bay ('oar-h Tony Dungy said· "It's a very tough fer,ling. difficult tu be that <;!ose to a Super l:3owl and not get it dorm. 
Thr, Bucs never have gotten it donr,, Nor have the Hams. whose only Super Bowl appnarancc came in the l '-J79 sea­son, when they bPat Tampa Bay 9-0 for the NFC drnmpionship. 
Then tlrny foll to the Str,elers in the Super Bowl. 
And they arnn't likely to get it done if their offense can't get out of its own way, evim if thr.ir defonsP plays "spectarular­ly," as coach Dick Vermcil describod it. 
"I think we showed people we can play l'very kind of game." said l\rlarshall Faulk. the NFL Offensive Player of the Year who certainly didn't play his kind of game. The record-setting running back was held to a total ol' 49 yards. 
"They wanted Lo play ball control and take the deep ball away from us. We did the same lo them and thought our offense rnuld make more plays than them." 
They made one more play, offsetting the defensive effort by the Bucs, who held St. Louis to 309 yards, 91 below its sea­son average. 
But the Hams had to survive a last­ditch march on which they got two of their five sacks on King, who still man­ag-ed to lead the Bucs to thci St. Louis 22. 
"We made a couple of plays, but I took a coup!(\ of sacks, and that's a no-no at that time." said King, who finished 13-of'­29 for 163 yards and two interceptions. 
for a fourth successful year! 
Dorm Com etition Winners 
1st Place -Carroll Hall 2nd Place -Lyons Hall Honorable Mention -Zahm Hall 
Sponsored by: 
[1$1 GEAR
tth••z '!Jff 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Nonu:DAME SUPPORT SERVICES Student Activities 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

St. Michael's 
Laundry 
HAMMES BOOKSTORE 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 24, 2000 
,. MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
West, Mishka lead Irish to victory in first 01eet of year 
• Three men postNCAA qualifying marks 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assisr,rnr Sports Editor 
l'hil Mishka and Marshaun West put their senior lf'adcr­ship into play Friday, leading thP Irish to vir.tory with indi­vidual wins that met N C A A qualifying standards. 
T  h  c  
nJP ll  S  
s  q  u a d  

started off the season by beating 
Western 
\.'tichigan. Ball State and Michigan State Pasily, Notre DamP finished 2(, points ahead of Western l\hrhigan, on the strength of seven event victo­ries. 
"Thc Big East is always the big focus for us," Mishka said. "I think we took a few giant steps towards winning that tonight, which would be really great for the seniors. We've never been able to bring that home." 
Mishka won the 800-meter dash in 1 minute, 49.68 sec,­onds, nearly two seconds ahead of his nearest competi­tor. That time was good enough to earn the senior run­ner a provisional qualification for the NCAA Indoors Championships. He also ran a leg in the victorious men's 4 x 400-meter relay team. 
West, a senior All-American, leapt 25-4 1/2 in the long jump. falling just shy of break­ing his own Notre Dame record. The mark met provi­sional NCAA qualifying stan­dards. whirh earns him a spot 

,__ 
American Heart AA Association.V 
Fighting Heart Olsu,e and Strnke 
AMERICAN HE.AKI A$0CIATION MEMORIAI.5 &TRIBUTE5 
~ 
.. 
J-800-AHA-USAJ 
Tt11a_, space pri,w:tcd .is a pubhc. sctv1•!'! 1'-¾94. ,991. American Henrt Ass.oan'1on 
.. 
to jump at nationals if thrre are not enough jumpers who meet the automatic qualifying mark. 
"I want to gflt an automatic, because you nf'ver know with a provisional." West said. "I didn't get that mark until much later in the season last yf'ar." 
Sophomore distance runner Luke Watsnn was the third member of the men's squad who met provisional qualifying standards. Watson carried the :-LOGO-meter race with a win­ning time of 8:09.50. 
"I've never in 26 years," head track and licld coach Joe Pianc said. "had four pt1oplc qualify-f'or nationals in the first meet of the year. That's amaz­
ing." 
Senior Chris Cochran scored a double-win in the sprints, winning both the 60-meter dash and the 200-meter dash. He also led off the first place 4 x 400-meter rclav. 
"On the men's side. we had a lot of personal bests." sprint r.oach John Millar said. "Chris Cochran ran his best times Pvcr in the 60 and the 200, and just missed an NCAA qualifying time. Terry Wray ran the fastest 400 he's run since he's been here. Travis Davey, ran the fastest 200 and fastest 60 that he's ever run." 
Wray finished third in the 400-meter dash, while Davey placed among the top six in both his events. 
Senior Tim Kober ran the third-fastest time in Notre Dame history in the 600-meter run, winning the event in 
1:19.88. Ile also anchored the 4 x 400-meter relay with a 
48.2 leg. 
"We did extremely well if you think it's the first meet of the season," Kober said. 
Besides Cochran, Mishka and Kober, freshman Nick Setta was the fourth leg on the 4 x 400-meter relay team. 
Oisro;er finallcial ~rvices, a business una of Motgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co ,O!)erates all Discover Brands with more lhan 47 million caldmernbe!S and the Oisrovel'/Novus Network'. The Network is the largest independent credrt card network in the Unled States with IOOre than 3 million merchant and cash access locations. We are currently see!ing llldMduals wrth e,perience in any of the following areas 
COBOL ¦ CICS • VSAM • D112 • JCL • C • Ct+ • JAVA • ORACLE • UNIX • ASSEMBLER , WINDOWS ,sJNT , ooP , Pllf , DATA WAREHousrNG , osn •CLIENT/SERVER 
Please join us at the: 
SUMMER & INTERNSHIP JOB FAIR 
.
Thursday, January 27th 1 Z:00NOON-4:00PM 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
•

SPORTS HERITAGE HALL JOYCE CENTER CONCOURSE-ZND FLR 
We offr,r awide array of worl<!>lace ernennies inclooing excellent salaries and benelrts. 401K. profn sllaring, tunioo reimbursement. fitness center and a casual dress tiOYironment tt unable to attend. please seod your scanable resume to: 
Discover Financial Services, Inc. Human Resources, IT Recruiter 2500 lake Cook Road " Riverwoods, IL 60015 Fax: f847J 405-1 388 

Visit our Web Site at
www.discoverfinancial.com 
EOl:M/F/DIV 
Recycle The Observer. 


THE TASTY CHICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY, 
One bile of the delicious Chicken Club, and you'll always crave the flavor of its all-white-meat chicken topped with crispy bacon, fresh lettuce and tomato and mayonnaise. And that's no problem, bilcause now this ultra-satisfying sandwich is here to stay at BURGER KING~ So come on In and indulge your craving. 

The Huddle • La'Fatl.Ol Studanl Center 
IT JUST TASTES BETTER~ 
www.burgert<ing.com
PARTICIPATION MAY VARY 
----------------~­
Monday, January 24, 2000 The Obmver . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
0~1t,"!1 MSfs~!.> ,1u:. p1,i,.II./. -rnr,. T ~ W\\E'U;. 'L l.<>f-'<£ 
'(O \J NO'..t> To T~L.-1(.. To 11&:~ tN. l°t'I. Goll,IC., To 
R\~T~ SO ~T:, ~"f '(o;J Do-nt£. i).LKl!',t, foR Yov! 
<:)c), Tsu. \\t.f{ ~~Ti:( '+.11-\t-.T 'iOV f'Ea.. 
BlLLAMEND
Fox TROT 
FANTASTIC! WONC>ERFULL'Y IT'S REFRESH• HOW WAS EXCELLENT! IN& To SEE
\
SCHOOL, Al(',E So 
SWEETIE? HUSE[) 
\ '1 
)J 
-! ' l 
The feast-or-famine life of the 
'JI 
ND basketball fan. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mary Lou Retton, Ray Stevens, Oral Roberts, John Belushi, Warren Zevon, Elliott Abrams, Nastassja K.inski, Neil Diamond 
Happy Birthday: You need to rethink your plans for the future. Problems wi\J occur if you don't communicate clearly, or if you over­spend unnecessarily, You will have to work hard in order to gain ground this year. If you take shortcuts, you will probably be sorry. Take your time and do things right the first time, and you'll be much further ahead. Your numbers: 5, 12, 17, 25, 33,49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Socializing with co-workers will lead to a better rapport at work. Someone you do business with will want to get to know you better. Rumors may be damaging if you aren't extremely discreet. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get an early start, and you'll be surprised how much you get done. You will get positive support from those who love you. Plan your day well, and you'll have time to see a movie later 
on.00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 201: You've probably overloaded your plate. Personal moves, renovations or more people on your domestic scene can be expected. Stay calm and let these disruptions pass quietly. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can change your image by purchas­ing new outfits, changing your hair­style or taking on a whole new look, This is a great day to start a new diet or get rid of that bad habit. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can expect opposition to your actions. Stay away from people who like to gossip. Problems with financial 
EUGENIA LAST 
schemes will set you back and cause 
upset. Take one step at a time. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
will be up and down ifyou allow your 
mate to get away with emotional 
blackmail. Get all the facts before 
taking action. Activities involving 
children will be rewarding. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Make 
those physical changes you've been 
thinking about. Get involved in 
activities that will bring you in con­
tact with others. You need mental 
and physical stimulation. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nav. 21): Par­ticipation in organizational functions will lead to romantic coMections. Your persuasive determination will sway opposition that you might encounter. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your ability to be spontaneous and creative will enhance your repu­tation. Use your stamina and gusto to achieve your objectives and don't be afraid to ask for favors or more money.00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Changes in your domestic scene may be a result of poor communication. You will find that your emotional state has left those you love wondering. 
00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You should be pursuing your hob­bies. You can make home improve­ments quickly and cheaply if you do the work yourself. Try to get the rest of the family to pitch in. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Prob­.. lems with lovers will continue to mount if you have been avoiding the issues at hand or using emotional blackmail. Your lack of attention to your mate has contributed to your problems. 000 
Birthday Baby: You are curious, questioning and eager to try anything new. You have a twinkle in your eye and an outstanding way of viewing the world. You're entertaining and quick to take action once you've made up your mind. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
-
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Actress Turner 5 One of baby's 
first words 9 Coke bottle size 14 Get the wrinkles out 15 Composer Stravinsky 16 Home base for 
humans 17 Takes risks 20 Casual top 21 Unnecessary 
accessory with 20-Across 22 Unit of conductance 23 Average grades 25 "Waiting for the 
Robert " 28 Takes risks 34 Follower of Mar. 
35 Beaver's proiect 
36 Shorthand takers 38 Infectious bacteria, briefly 41 Chop 43 Spar (with) 44 Feels sorry for 46 Afternoon break 48 Mexican Mrs. 49 Takes risks 53 Ooze 54 Instrument on a Greek vase 55 Austrian peak 58 Afire 60 Hidden 64 Takes risks 68 Cybernotes 69 New York's Canal 70 Explorer called "the Red" 71 Hunky-dory 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
72 Cell-phone button 73 Bulletin board item 
DOWN 
1 Santa checks it twice 2 Boats like 3-Down's 3 Biblical captain 4 Monkeyshines 5 Bloat 
6 Many years _ 
7 Cautionary 
advice 8 More affected 9 Gift in Honolulu 
1OFleming of 007 novels 11 In good physical condition 12 Draw on copper, say 13 Prefix with -stat 18 ",., saw ElbT 19 Sen. Jesse from North Carolina 
24 Overthrown Iranian leader 
26 "Como usted?" 
27 Pitcher 
28 Fight for breath 

56 Tibetan monk 63 Where to play 57 Blueprint 
shipboard shuffleboard
59 BFGoodrich item 65 Tyke 61 Jewish dance 
66 Foxy
62 Many a OeMi!le film 67 Tonic's partner 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95rt per minute), 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the las1 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS, 30 Poetry Muse 

32 Psychiatrists treat it 
33 "Tag, _ it!" 
37 Mark with a branding iron 39 One of 12 popes 40 "Take this!" 42 Sirens do it 
45 Inscribed pillar 47 Eager to proceed, 
slangily 50 Gets back at 51 "I smell 
52 Hush-hush 55 Stunned 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: and mail to:
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the mon~ than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
• 
Name Address City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 

Race for the top 
The Notre Dame men's track anclji.eld team tookflrsl place in its first meet of the season.
PORTS 
page 26 
page 28 OBSERVER Monday, January 24, 2000 

HOCKEY 
Notre Dame sweeps into fifth place 
. Dusbabek, Carlson lead ND to wins over WMU 
By !,1ATT OLIVA 
Spom Writer 
Despite trailing 3-1 with less than fom minutPs remaining in the third period. the Irish hock­ey team did not panir. and ral­
lic d for a 4-3 over­time victo­ry over Llw Western Michigan Broncos. 
Thr win in the first 

game of Carlson the two-g a m e seriPs was critical because a strong wePkend would boost the Irish ahead of the Broncos and into 5th placP in the CGIA. Losing would drop them further out of contention for a top SPPd in the playoffs. In the last five minutes of the tirst game, the Irish would turn the game around. The only Irish goal had come in the first period on a fluke bounce off of Joe Dusbabek's leg. They had out­played tlu~ Broncos throughout the entire game but had only a two-goal deficit to show for it. 
The Irish held their opponent to only one shot on goal for the t>ntire third period. and out-shot the Broncos by an amazing 44 shots in the game, 56-1 G. 
With 3 minutes, 26 seconds left in the game, the brcilks started to go Notre Dame's way. David Inman scored off assists from Andy Jurkowski and Sean Seul'erth t;J bring the game bark within in one goal. Then. with about a minute and a half left in regulation. head roach Dave Poulin called il timeout to db­cuss a play. After pulling goal­tender Tony Zasowski to give tbe Irish an extra attacker, the Irish won the ensuing face off and created a fury of shots in front of' Bronco goaltender Jeff Reynaert. 
Dusbabek knocked a shot off of the post and the rebound came out to junior left wing Dan Carlson, who put the puck in the net to tie the game at three with 1:23 left. 
"We were on tbe power play in their encl and we have to win thf' game." Poulin said. "We had worked on a new faceoff play with four or five options to score off of. We pulled the goalie early because in this situation we needed to win." 
A major factor in the outcome of the game came with 28 sec­
onds left as Western Michigan's Mike Bishai took a penalty that 
Jay Kopischke maneuvers through the neutral zone in Friday's 4-3 overtime win against the see HOCKEY/page 23 Western Michigan Broncos. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish regain confidence with win 
By BRIAN KESSLER Spom Edicor 
After a two game losing streak. it would be easv for the Notre Dame basketball team to question its -confidencp head­ing into Saturday's See Also Big East 
"Irish prove
showdown w i t h they're deadly
-Pittsburgh. from downtown" For fresh­
page22
man Jr.re Macura. however, it may have been a harmless game of horse that was hurt­ing his confidence. 
'"I joke with him because 
,,. before tlrn past few games I'd have a horse competition with him and I've been beating him." first-year head coaeh Matt Doherty said. "\Vp didn't play [Fridayl. so maybe that's 
see GAME/page ~2 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Green leads Irish over Hurricanes 
By KERRY SMITH Assisranr Sports Editor 
Danielle Green lel't the Hurricanes seeing red as she led the Irish to a 76-54 win in Miami on Saturday. 
Stepp­ing up for the Irish 
o n offense, Green stole the limelight as she tallied a game and season-high 22 points and made six assists on the afternoon. 
Green showed the Hurricanes that she meant business from the opening 

play. With a quick steal and layup to begin the first half. she led the Irish on a 12-0 run that put the squad on top from the outset. Miami came dose at limes. but was unable to capture the lead as Notre Dame led for the entire game. 
With the win. the No. 5 Irish move to 15-2 on the season and remain one of three teams to beat in the Big East with a 6-0 conference record. Connecticut and Boston College share undefeated con­ference records with Notre Danrn. 
The Irish came out strong, relying on their strength in the paint to propel them to a 4 7-:33 halftime lead. 
ThP. Hurricanes wtiathered the storm of the Irish offense well and went on a 16-2 run 
see WOMEN/page 16 

ar Alaska-Fairbanks Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. Friday, 7:05 p.m. Sarurday, 3 p.m. 
vs. Miami vs. Olivet
SPORTS s 
Men's SwimmingATA at St. John's iltl Fencing Oakland University Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. .. vs. Penn State 
at Milwaukee Saturday & Sunday, All Day 
Saturday, 1 p.m.
GLANCE 




