Changes at the top 
A lot ofnew business cards were 

Wednesday
printed this summer as some ofi'vV's top jobs changed hands. 
AUGUST 23, 
News . page 3 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Danie and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. ll HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Honoring a life 
Congress gives Hesburgh its highest award at D. C ceremony 
. Clinton, Hastert, others pay tribute to ND icon 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
News Editor 
WASlllNGTON 

University offidals, C:ongrnssmPn and President Bill Clinton gathernd in the 
U.S. capitol rotunda .July 13 to award the Congressional Gold Mnlal to Father Ttrnoclorn !IPsburgh. president enrnritus of thP UnivPrsity of Notre !lame, !'or a lifotinrn of publir, Sl\rVicn. 
Tllf' Medal is giwn by a leg­islativ1! act of Congrnss to com­rnemoratn persons. events or sitns of spAcial mnaning to the Arnrrican pi,ople. llesburgh was nominated for the honor by U.S. Representativr Tim Hoe mer. whose district includes South Bend. 
Hoerner said that the medal has traditionally been given for a single great achievement by an American citizen. but that he fell l!csburgh deserved the medal for his lifetime of ser­vir,c. 
"Today we honor Father llesburgh for a lifetime of arhievement in civil rights, arhievcment in religion and arhhwemnnl in higher educa­tion," !w said. df!scribing 11,\sburgh's life as "a daily journny to explore llrn soul for justir,P and equality." 
Boemer also credited llesburgh with building Notrn Dame into a nationally promi­nPnt institution and cited his international work among thP. 
see HESBURGH /page 4 




Father Edward Malloy (above) praises his predecessor, who received the Medal (above right). 
. Hesburgh's legacy includes service program 
By HELENA PAYNE News Writer 
WASIIINGTON 
President Clinton is the latest addition to the list of people who have given praise to Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus. 
"We hope now that you got one more award, you can still be nice to all your friends and peo-· pie who admire you vr,ry much," said President Clinton during the July 13 Congressional Gold Medal Ceremony for I Iesburgh. 
Hesburgh, clad in his priestly collar, cracked a smile while several others chuckled at the President's friendly quip. Clinton's comment appropriately captured a prominent aspect of Hesburgh's personality: his humility. Hesburgh, a man of great prestige, has managed to remain unassuming for "the lit­tle people" amidst his success, somothing recognized even by the President. 
The Rotunda room of the Capitol Building was full of sup­portive members of Congress and the Notre Dame community. All were on hand to observe Hesburgh receive his award for work in the area of Catholic Pdu­cation. civil rights, and global peace. 
Hesburgh's service to both Notre Dame and the nation has been an example and source of inspiration for young adult Domers. · 
'Tm very proud of Notre Dame," Hesburgh said. "We're 
see PROGRAM/page 9 


Students slam Kickoff 2000 as confusing, time consuming 
By ANNE MARIE 
MATTINGLY 
News Editor 
This yr,ar's football ticket dis­tributioJ1 procedure provr.J com­plicated amt nrrnhc\rsomi:, stu­dents said Tuesday after senior dass tick<'t sal<'s. 
The svstPm fPaturrcJ a student picnic ,~t Stepan Cmiter Monday wtH\re Universitv ushrrs handed out lottery stirk.!ors on students' ticknt applications. 1\l the conclu­sion or thP picnic, a numbnr was drawn to chiterrnine whkh stu­dnnt w11uld he ablP to buy the first ticket. Sales procerdcct numerically from the chosen number, with numbers from one to that number lining up after the higher numbers. Students without stickers will be last in line. 
"I really disliked it," said senior Zack Bray "There's got to be a way they can do it without mak­ing you show up at three differ­cnt places at three different times. They should make it clear exactly what you have to do." 
Senior .John Osborn expressed wnfusion about the reasoning behind the lottery tickets or even seat assignments. 
"All they should do is designate 
"/ thought [the lottery system] was a complete waste oftime. " 
Mark Donahey senior 
one section of the stadium for each class," he said. "You can sit with your friends and get good seats if you get there early" 
Freshmen in particular found the system confusing 
"I thought it could have been more organized," said first-year student Britt Hellige. "We had to be there for a long time." 
Katie Twidwell agreed . 

"The info sheet was helpful, but not helpful enough," she said. 
Christina Maher, also a first­year student, explained that many of the freshmen did not understand the procedure until they arrived at the picnic. · 
Several students attended the picnic just to receive their stick­ers and did not stay for the events planned by the Offke of Student Activities and student govnrnment. 
"l stood in linP., got my sticker and left," said sophomore Kris Forcier. "By the time we got through the line, we were ready to go because it was such a long wait." 
Despite the short stay of some students, student body president Brian O'Donoghue was pleased with the turnout. 
"I think the student body showed up en masse and I have nothing but the utmost resper,t for the Notre Dame student body and the spirit they have shown," he said. O'Donoghue did note the length of tlrn lines, as well as the absence of a convenient system for off-r.ampus students to get their applir.ations. as among the 
see TICKETS/page 9 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, August 23, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Growing up 
J.ur,k was on my sidP in the middle of ~fay. 
After spending five months searching and 
applying for intfirnships in Washington, D.C. 
I finally got a job as a lifeguard. While it 
didn't sound exciting or noble it was a foot 
in the door. 
I had decided over win­
tnr break that I wanted to Lila Haughey 
spPnd thn summer in D.C., 
and when I got to school I 
furiously began my search Viewpoint 
for an internship. I was Editor 
limited to paid internships 
since I would be paying 
for my summer on my own. This made the 
SParch more difficult and thA application 
process was incredibly competitive. After 
fivn months of being accepted by organiza­
tions that were unwilling to pay me. I began 
searching for a job. 
t\ week b1ifore I was scheduled lO leave for 
D.C. I was callnd about a lifeguarding job. 
llousing was my next concern. I had been looking for an apartment and finally found a f'urnished apartnwnt for an incrndibly rca­sonabln amount of money. llowever I could not !{Pt a picturf' of' thP building or an accu­rate description ol' how safe Lhc area was Ipolie<~ reports wf're vague and hard to r<'adl. Tlw studirnt I would bn sublf'tting from assured me that the area was safe. and slw sP1~rned to trust rrw. a person shf' had IH\Vf'I" nrnt. enough to leii.ve all of her things in tlw apartment. 
I sel out for Washington I>.C:. thinking P.verything was rosy. 1 had the opportunity tn carry out my dreams and was able to do it at a roasonable cost. An hour lator I had pink ny<'. That was only the b1)ginning. Thirteen hours lator I arrived at the apart­nrnnt building in Maryland and couldn't gf1t out of tho car. The student I would be sub­leasing from had Pxaggerated the safety of the arf'a. It was a poor and dilapidated area that was featured on the news that evening for a shooting that occurrnd down the strnet. After two bad experiences I decided that my luck couldn't get worse. I was wrong. 
Since I was starting work in two days I thought I should check out the place I was working. I knew it was a housing complex. When I arrived at the building, it looked respectable. but it wasn't a country club. I went inside and ask11d to see the pool. After looking at the pool on the roof I saw that I would be incredibly alone. I knew I was scheduled to work until 10 p.m. so safety was a big concern. It didn't seem like a well­supervised and protected area, so I decided to look for another job. 
My first day in D.C. had not gone well. Most pnoplc would have gone home. I was stubborn I stayed in a hotel for a week and looked for and eventually found an aparl­mnnt that was safo. The next week I looked for a job. I bncame a waitrnss and then called my rnpresentative and asked to work two days a week. So two weeks latcr I was settled and had turnnd a bad situation into a good one. 
ThA moral is that through persistence I was ablr, to have a great time in O.C. Moreover. in addition to what I learned as an intern. I also learned a lot about indepen­dence. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 

·i im l.og;111 Amanda Greco K,ttc Nat;cngast Graphics Finn Prrssly 
Jose Cudlar Spores Lab Tech 
KJ1hlcen O'Brien 
Li, Lrn~ 


Viewpoint 
lil.1 H.1ugliey 

Tlir Oh,erv,•r (USl'S ~•1•1 2-40otll i, 1>11hlishcd M,111d.l)' thro11~h l'nd.1r nrc-pl 1.hmn~ cx.1m ,u,d v,1C,Hl(•n Jkrtod, ·11,c-Ohsct\'~r is .1 memhrr of dtc t\:1s\in,11nl Pr'-"~~, All rcprmluu11w tij:lus .ire rc...rcvt·d 
NEWS DEPARTMENT POLICY  
Tho Observer is a daily,  and graphics to keep read­ The group may also take  approprialP than an article  
student-run newspaper  ers informed about nation­ out an  advertisement in  reporting tlrn {Went. This  
serving both Notre Dame  al and world Pvents.  the paper at our special  type of decision is madP. by  
and  Saint  Mary's.  The  As the editorial policy  campus rate.  the  news editor. 1lowcver,  
Obsnrvcr news department  states,  "The  Observer  As a rule, we do not run  we  are  always willing to  
uses  the following guide­ news  is reported  as accu­ previews of loctures that  discuss  news dnpartment  
lines in its news gathering  rate!y a~~d objectively  as  we  arc planning to  cover.  coverage of' an event, pro­ 
process:  poss1blfl.  We simply do not have the  vided  a group rnprescnta­ 
The  Observer  news  An important source of  staff or space to  run  pre­ tive contacts the news edi­ 
department  strives  to  story ideas is the members  views of' every campus lec­ tor one week prior to Urn  
rl'port on  all campus and  ol' the ND/SMC community  ture. Exceptions to this  event.  
local events that affect  who call. write or e-mail  rule may be made if a  lcc­ If you have any addition­ 
either or both campuses  The Observer staff rngard­ tu re  is  to  be given by  a  al questions, please  con­ 
and  .the  surrounding  ing upcoming events. We  speaker ot' national  or  tact Anne Marie Mattingly,  
areas.  encourage g-roups to con­ international prominence.  news editor, at 631-5323.  
In addition to  the local  tact us at least one  week  We;  understand  that  Questions or comments  
news. The Observer uses  in advance with details  there  are  times when  a  can  also be e-mailed  to:  
Associated Press stories  regarding their activities.  preview article is  more  Observ11r.obsnews. l@nd.edu.  

Compiled from lf.Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Book names LSU nation's No. 1 party school 
BATON ROUGE, La. 
Chancellor Mark Emmert and other Louisiana State University adminis­trators expressed concern upon learning the Princeton Heview named LSU as Urn No. 1 party school in the nation. 
"l am disappointed that this was reportr.d. and I'm angry because l know that it's not the truth," said Nancv Mathews. associatf' director of' the Studrmt llealth Center. 
Emmert said hr. recoived "informal notification" Wednesday of LSU's placement on the list from the Associated Press and early informa­tion from the Princeton Review. 
"LSU is no morn of a party school than any other American university." Emmert said. 
Heprcsentatives from the Princeton 
"Li;,'[! is no more of a party 
school than any other 
American university. .. 
Mark Emmert Chancellor Louisiana State University 

Heview originally declined to mak<i any comment on the list. which it inrludes in its annual guide, "Tho Best 331 Colleges," last WP-dnesday. 
But the company rnleased portions of the list pertaining to LSU Thursday. after the media reported the informa­tion. 
LSU tops the list or party schools, outranking the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, the University of Texas at Austin and Florida Stat11 University in Tallahassee. 
Students may foe] pride at hoaring they are attending the No. 1 party school, but negative connotations accompany this titl11, said Stnrling Foster. former I.SU Studnnt Government prr.:-;idont. 
'"Top Party School' doesn't show tho effort we hav11 rnadn in the past fow years." Poster said. 
A 1999 study by tho Ilarvard School of Public llnalth shows that LSU is b11lnw the national avcrago f'or bingn drinking, which the study delines as live drinks in a row for men and four drinks in a row for women. 
The national bingn-drinking rate for collego studenl'> is 44 porcent and the LSU binge-drinking rate is 41 percnnt, according to the rnsull'> of' the study. 
PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Strike leaves students without phones 
UNIVERSITY PARK. Pa. 
In addition to buying books and straightening out schedules, many Pennsylvania State University students living off-campus have found themselves with one more expense and hassle -purchasing cellular phone plans and being without telephone service. Because of a two-. week strike by Verizon Communications employees, many off-campus students have not been able to get phone service in their apartments and houses. Samantha Bunten bought a cell phone this week because a service representative at Verizon told her and her roommates they could be without phone service until December, she said. The company will move through requests for new service as quickly as possible once the strike is resolved, but a waiting period of up to three weeks or more is expectnd, said Harry Mitchell, a spokesman for Verizon. Verizon. the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and the Communications Workers of America in New York and New England reached a tentative agreement on new contract-; late Sunday. 
OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY 
OSU professor discovered dead 
STILLWATEH, Okla. 

An Oklahoma State University geology professor was found dead early on the morning of August 15 in a drainage culvert at the northwest corner of campus. The body of Arthur Cleaves. 55, was found at about 
7:15 a.m. by a morning jogger, said Capt. Ernest Tye of' OSU Police. Cleaves· body was lying in a drainage cul­vert. The bottom of the culvert is eight to 10 feet below the street level and is not visible to passing trallic. Tye said the death appears to have been accid1rntal. but police are still investigating the possibility of' foul play. Police said that Cleaves may have been jogging and fell into the concrete-lined culvert. Inspection of the scene failed to surface any signs of foul play, Tye said. Police also said Cleaves was diabetic, which may havn con­tributed to his death. t\s of Sunday, no further state­ment had been given as confirmation that Cleaves' death was accidental. Officials could not be reached to discuss the findings of the autopsy report and whether or not foul play has been oflicially rulod out. 
LOCAL WEATHER  NATIONAL WEATHER  
5 Day Souch Bend Forecast AccuW~,aher *t(.1re~11st for c.Lwrime-conditions ;md high rem~ler;.Hur~s  The AccuWeathel® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Aug. 23.  
H  L  
 
Wednesday Q, Thursday ~ Friday ~ Saturday ~ Sunday ~  83 81 81 81 81  62 60 62 61 61  60• ~. , FRONTS: .&...A. ~ ~ Cl 2000 AecuWeather. Inc. cow WARM STATIONARY Pr1n11n· ® © DD .... High Low Show~t• Rain T -11orm1 Flt1rrlt111 Snow le< Sunny P1 Ctoudy Cloudy Wt .A,!IOClll,_d Pr~s,  
,...f)qQQc:.J.uu .r;. ~j• . . ..c ---­.. ' .. ' .. ~....... ',,. " . ':.. • • ·i•· ·!• ---St1owers T-storms Ra,n Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy Via Assoc,at~ Prt1§s Or«ptJICsN~r  A!lanla Baltimore Boslon Chicago Houston  88 80 77 65 91  71 66 65 6ft 76  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  99 94 80 77 78  75 76 63 67 70  Portland 88 Sacramento 89 SI. LOUIS 90 Tampa 92 Washington, D.C. 83 ~ -~~­- 60 58 71 74 69  


\X'ednesday, August 23, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Beauchamp out, Scully in for executive vp post 
Changes at the top
oversight of the athletic pointed and I would not administration into the 
By ERIN PlROUTEK 
dP.partmtmt was trans­even begin to suggest financial side. Associate News EJiro1 
ferred from the office of that this would never 'Tm happy to be in this Jnd the exnr.utive vice presi­happen again in the new position and grateful
MIKE CONNOLLY 
dent to UnivP.rsity future." for the trust of the New, \X/ri1er 
President Father The Generations cam­Cniversity trustees ,.. and 
Edward Mallov in paign, started iive years also hu.mbled at the 
ror I :3 V«'ars, FathPr Fohruarv. · ago, has be('n a source of same time," he said. \Nilliam • Beauchamp Tim n;~w structurn of pride for the University. In his new job, Scully guidncl Nolrt> Dame thn athlr.tic departmPnt Tim funclraising ram­will oversee operations of through a period of more closely resembles paign has ]){lid for such the University ranging unprecml!~nwd financial that of most universities improvements as the from wnstruction of now growth and grnat athlet­and had been planned renovation of thf! Main buildings to ovNseeing ic SLICCl',SS(\S as (\Xr-cutivc for sonrn time, according Building. the construc­the endowment. Under vicn prnsicknt. to BPauchamp. Ile also tion of the new book-Beauchamp tho ondow­
But in May Lim Board d o e s store, mc n t grew from of Trustnns voted to n o l t h e $400,000 to $:U billion. rt>placf' him with former br.lievf! "We had had discussions n e w While Scully's primary associalP prmosl Father t _h a t cam -expertise lies in politics
about. it. This wa.sn 't 
Timothy Scully. t h n p u s and academic research,
something completely out
Thr-movp did not scan­min -Malloy feels that he will cornn ..s a surprise to d a I of the blue." i st r y do well as the executive lfoauchamp. S ll r · build­vice presirlent 
"Wn had had discus­round­ing and "[Scully] is a very
Father William Beauchamp 

+----._ replaces 
\

William Beauchamp Senior Associate Provost 
Religious Superior of the Holy Cross Priests Timothy Scully 

J 

replaces __/
sions about il," ing Urn tlrn golf bright and energetic and 
former executive vice president
H!'atwhamp said in May. foot­quad creative person," Malloy 
"This wasn't something ballled dorms. said. "He will bring his 
completely out of the to his own set of gifts to the job 
He also praised the

bllH'." re.placement. Although Generations and I look forward to progress of campus con­Tlw last year has bnen "That wasn ·t the mes­is still a few months working with him. 
struction projects, most

a mix of' scandals and sagn I was given by thP away from completion, Malloy was not con­
notably the Campussuccesses for trustees or hy the presi­Beauchamp is not cun­cerned about Scully's 

Ministry building and theBcauchamp's office. dML" he said. "It wasn't ccrm~d with the futun1 of more academic back­new theology/ philosophy Whilo tlw Gc'nurations implied that this situa­the project. ground in what has tra­

building. He said that

campaign has raised tion r.ould have been "Anytime you leave, ditionally been a finan­
they are working dili­$944 million, far sur­avoided if \'VC had done there would always be cialjob. 

gently towards the per­

passing tlw goal of $767 something different. I something that I would "He doesn't have to be 
forming arts center

million, thP athletic don't think that is the be in the middle of," he a master of investment 
groundbreaking as well

dnpartmnnt foll under issue here at all. " said. "/ am not complete­strategy in order to ask 
as planning a top-notch

attar.k from the NCAA. While the probation is ly stepping away from good questions and science teaching facility.
Bf\aur.hamp·s tenure a source o[ embarrass­the University. I am implement plans for 
Scully's appointment

also sa1N t/w athletic ment for the University, going to contin.ue to be investments and finances was made with an eye todr.partment n~ceive its Beauchamp asserts that very involved in the and the physical part of the future, as well. Bothfirsl major penalty and tlrnre was never a loss of Generations campaign campus and all the other 
he and Father Mark

sanctions. Because of institutional control over and a number of other things that are part of 
Poorman, vice presidentimpropPr gi!'ts to football tb.c alhlntic department. rnsponsibilities at the the job." 

of Student Affairs have

players from booster "Nobody at the University." Scully noted that he's been mentioned as suc­Kim Dunbar, the NCAA University was pleased Beauchamp will retain still new to the office and 
cessors to Malloy, and

stripped th11 University that thnrc was a major his seat as both a is busy familiarizing him­
their promotions

of two scholarshi.ps and violation," he said. "I Trustee and a Fellow of self with his role, 
increase the number of

placr.d tlw tnam on pro­think that it was impor­the University, and will ''I've been spending the young Holy Cross priestsbation for two years. tant that the NCAA made continue to work with summer visiting all of the 
with administrative

In rnspons·c to the it very clear that they still Malloy to· plan Notre major facilities and get­
experience at Notre

sanctions, athlntic direc­considered Notre Dame Dame's future. ting to know the folks Dame.
tor MichaPI Wadsworth to have a model pro­Scully, 46, moves from who are involved in run­
"Father Beauchamp

rcsignr.d and· direct gram. . .. So I am disap-the academic side of the ning them," Scully said. 
and I have talked numerous times throughout the years how to give the next

NEED AJOB THIS FALL? 
generation of Holy Cross leadership the chance to 
, have experience and display their own gifts

THE DEVELOPMENT PHONE CENTER Is HIRINGI 
and talents," Malloy said. "When the time comes for my successor and for other individuals in major jobs, there will

10-15 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS 
be a pool of experienced people to draw from."


ARE CURRENTLY AVAILABLE 
Call alumni on behalf of GENERATIONS: A Campaign for the Notre Came Student. 
• PAIO TRAINING 
• GREAT ENVIRONMENT 
• EVENING HOURS 
• No EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 

OPEN HOUSE 

When: TODAY. WEDNESDAY AUG. 23 TOMORROW, THURSDAY AU&. 24 1:OOpm to 4:00pm 
Where: Third Floor, Grace Hall 
What: To answer questions and 
provide applications. 

Questions? Call Shannon O'Keefe at 631-8426. 







Jenkins moves up in shift 
Special to The Observer 
The Board of Trustees elected Father John Jenkins as vice president and associ­ate provost of the University. 
He will fill the vacancy created when Father Tim Scully was named executive vice president. 
Jenkins is an associate professor of philosophy and also serves as religious superior of the Holy Cross priests and brothers at Notre Dame. As religious superior, he was a Fellow and Trustee of the University, but he will relin­quish those posts when he steps down as superior to assume his duties in the provost's office. 
He has been a member of the faculty since 1991-1992 and teaches ancient and medieval philosophy and the philosophy of religion. Jenkins was ordained a priest in 1983. 


pagt: 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 23, 2000 
around (hisl neck for 57 years." 
Clinton specifically praised Hesburgh's focus on religion. despite all the priest's other responsibilities. 
"Even as thf': prrsident of Notre Damn, he never stopped being a pric:,t," Clinton said. "The greatness lisJ rooted on lhisl understanding of our com­mon humanity and our common !status! as children of God." 
University president Father Edward Malloy was also on hand for the ceremony and dted Ilesburgh's open mind as among the recipients b<\St qualities. 
"(lie has I a visionary attitude toward everything and is always seeing God at the center of everything." he said. Malloy noted that llosburgh wantr.d to be the first priest to say Mass in space. 
When given the opportunity to respond to all of the comm11nts made by his admirers. llnsburgh claimed that he did not consider himself tu be as grP-at as the descriptions givon by all the sp!\akers beforn him. 
"I t11nd to think I'm a bit over­ratrd,'' he said. 
histP.ad. Ilosbur~h expressnd his humili!v and said that the· priesthood ·1;ati been lhn grcaLnst source of' joy in his lifo. 
"I have a lot to be humble about," he said. "The happi,1st day of my lifo was when I was ordained a Catholic prim,t. I was lillnd with the l!oly Spirit, who fortunately has staynd with me thcsr, 57 years." 
ThA priest admitted that all of the praise was overwhelming, but said that it was important not to be<'ome too self-impor­
tant. 

"It's okay Lo hear yourself praisnd as long as you don't inhale it. and. my dear f'rinnds. I'll try not to inhale," hn said. 
llf'sburgh creditnd Congrrss with gn1at leadership but issund a challnngP for all Americans to unito f'or justicn and pnacci. 
"What havo vou donn for prrncP latPly. a;1d wh,tt havP you don11 for justice lately'>" llnsburgh asked. "B1)caus1) without justice tlwre wi II bn no pnacn. and tlwr,i shouldn't bn." 
In his closing comnwnts. llnsburgh said that he will con­tinun to work l'or justice in tlrn world for as long as hn is ablr to do so. 
'Tm not about to !nave the ball game," he said. "And I'll do as much as I can. as wl'II as I can. for as long as I can." 

Hesburgh 
continued from page I 
accomplishnH'nts for which hr had b1wn horwwd. 
"llfP isl a parish prinst for a world congregation." said llo1~nwr. a graduatfl of thr Un ivnrsitv. 
H<wm,;r also focus11d on llnsburgh's work for civil rights in llw I %Os. I le said l Insburgh has worlwd diligently lo impl<'­nwnt lhn prnmisP found in the Dnc.laration of lndnpcnd11ncn that all nwn an• ITPatNI nq,ial. 
"Futh0r 

Hichard I.ugar, usrd his time at Lhe podium Lo review llesburgh's many works of public sr,rvicr,. llesburgh served as a charter nwmbnr or the U.S. Commission on Civil Bights and il-; chairman from I 9(,IJ-72 and worhd as a national leader on rdur,ation and an nducation rnmmittee rhair­man from 1963-1970, Lu~ar said. llf' has has sPrverl four popPs on the Atomic Energy Commission and workl'.d against f'aminn in Cambodia in 1979 and 1980 with his fundrai.sing-efforts. III'. was awarded the Mndal of' 1:rr.edom in l 964 by President l.vndon .Johnson and is now a · best selling 
Il11sburgh has author. as well worhd all his "Elwn as the president. uf as founfh,r or 
li!'I.\ lfl impln• Notre Dwne, hP. never Notrn Dame's 
nwnt. thrsf' Krc,c Institute
slopped being a priest."
words," hP f o r said. Jnu~rnational PcacA StudiAs.
Indiana Bill Clinton 
"fir. is the
Senator Evan 


president
Bayh noted epitome or a llesburgh's compassionate 
humility. comparing the fornwr Notre l>amP prPsidrnl Lo Sir Thomas Mor11 and drawing a parallel brtwPen the lW(> and tlwir lov1• and <'ommitnwnt. to justic1• and tlw Church. 
lln loo l'on1sPd on llnsburgh's ongoing r.ommitmrnt to servict' as thr n•ason liir b11stowing thc award 
"Part ol' !thr. Notrr. Dame! fight· 
song implorns the Notn' Dame faitliJ'ul to call down the er.hons. and so today 'vVC do. We call down tlw Pchoes f'rom a lif'ctimn of service." Bavh said. "Wr. will rnmcmbf'r ··nwodorf' M. I lt-sburgh. bccausP his contribu­tions to a grnalf'r :\mcrica havl' bP!\n truly rvNlasting." 

11,isburgh has fl\CPivt•d 144 honorary df'gTPes from coll!~gns and univ1•rsitins, a world rncord, and now tw has br.come (mn of just 2SO n!cipicnts of' tht1 Congf!\Ssional (;old M,~dal. Other rnripinnts include Crorgr Washington. Winston Churchill. Mot!wr TPn~sa and Hosa Parks. 
Indiana's sPnior senator. 

man  [with!  
rnmarkablc  seIf-d isci plin e,..  
Lugar said.  

Splmlrnr of lhr Ilouse Dennis llastert revirwed Jlesburgh's early lil'n. Notre Dame's must famous prnsident was just 17 whnn hr arrived at the University. and has spent 57 Y(\llfS in the priAsthood. :{5 or tlwm as tho Univr.rsity's prcsi­c!Pnt. 
"I lis voice has been a constant in llw soda! issues of our time," llasl!\rt said. noting that I ltisburgh continues to work for pca,-e between the Israelis and Palestinians. 
Pn~sidr,nt Clinton nxpressed his personal admiration for Ilesburgh at thr. cernmony. 
"I have hrard many spr.oches today about a man I admirn vnry much. a sr,rvant and a child of God. a gm1uine patriot. and a cit­izen of' the world." Clinton said. 'The most important thing about I Father llesburgh) and the greatest thing [hef will rvnr wnar is th<, rollar [h<,l has worn 
Notre Dame Tickets Buy /Sell/Trade 

Nebraska Wanted 
Preferred Tickets 

234-5650 





THE ENE N Al· T E 



Gonna be a late one? Then reach for new BALANCE GOLD" with 23 vitamins and minerals. With a 40-30-30 ratio of carbs, protein and dietary fat, it helps give your body sustained energy. Plus, you can't go wrong with all those peanuts, caramel and that rich chocolate flavor. Want to know more? Log on to Balance.com.
. 


ATION 
Wednesday, August 23, 2000 COMPILED FH0M T1rn OBSERVEH WIRE SEUVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iraq awaits inspectors~ With a new toam of U.N. insp,~rtors just linishing its train­ing. Iraq stands dP!'iant. confid,rnt that international support for an attempt Lo restart the sParch for any rhemiral. biologiral or nuclear w1iapons program is eroding. In a mnr-ting with army rommanders broadcast on Iraqi tcltwision laln Monday, Iraqi President Saddam Hussein dndnrnd there "is a huge differnnce" between t:onditions today and 
l')'Jl. when a U.S.-lod multinational force rout1\d Iraqi troops from Kuwait. 
Syrian talks remain stalled: Syria n•nrnins internstr.d in making peace with lsraPI. but aftnr another ovPrture by S('crclary of' Slate Marfoleine Albright a way lo r,~vivl" stalled talks has not been found. the State llr.partment said TuPsday. 

NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. open to bioterrorism:· Advances in t{'['hnology make the United Statr.s more vulnPrabl0 to biotfirrorism than to nuclear attack. a leading rxpert in defonding against biological wPapons said Ttwsday. Dr. Tarn O'ToolP. dPputy direr.tor of Johns Hopkins University's CPnter for Civilian Biodcfl'nsP Studir.s. suggested devoting $30 billion ovPr th!' next 10 years lo prepare hPalth rare systems to detect. trar.k. n•spond and contain epidemirs that would bP trigg,m~d by biological weapons. 
Texas executes Jones: A convicted murderr.r was killed by injection Tuesday for abdurting and fatally stabbing a woman and th<\11 sr-tting h0r body on fire. Hir.hard Way1w .lonf'cs. 40. acknowledged burning Tammy Livingston. 27. but said he wasn't rnsponsible for th!' 17 stab wounds that killed her. "I want the victim's family to know I didn't rnmmit this f'rimP." Jones said. 

INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Fallen officer lauded: The state police board prcstmtcd a rnprnorial resolution and medal in fndianapolis Monday to the widow and parr.nls of' a trooper who died ·in tho line of duty. Troop11r Jason Beal. 24. was struck by a car last wint!'r on iry Indiana 14 while helping a wrnr.ker pull a vnhicln l'rom a Kosciusko County ditch. Superintendent Mel Carraway extr.nded his sympathies to tlrn family. "We give thesn corr.monies because we. don't want our oilier rs to be forgotten. We will never forget the sacrilicP. your husband and son made for the Indiana State Polir.e," he said. 
Market Watch 8/22 

Dow 

11139.15 +59.34
]ONES 
Composite
Up: Same: Down: 

Volume:1,435 578 43Z? 
822, l 58,0R0 
• 

AMEX: 922.75 +2.23 
Nasdaq: 3958.21 +5.06 
NYSE: 671.62 +0.46 
S&P 500: 1498.13 -1.35 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMl'ANYISECURITY %CHANGE $CAIN PRICE CISCO W,TE,\\S(CS( :1 J) · 1.0\ .,(,')()() 64.HI DELI. C<'~ll'l'TER ([)ELL) .us -UIIJO .17.-\4 C( l~ll',\Q COMl'l'TEl{(Cl'l.!J •2.4"1 i0,812) 11.00 l'fff.l ( 'llRl'(lNTC) t0,08 J-0.())71 72,I~ MIROSOFT C<lRf'(~ISFTI +£LR8 +0.(12,0 71 2'l 

RUSSIA 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
President Vladimir Putin flew to an Arctic naval base Tuesday to console the families of 118 sailors killed in a submarine acci­dent. but the gesture barely alleviated the nation's crushing grief and anger at the bungled rescue effort. 
Former submariners wr.pt in the streets as Russia mourned with strik­ing openness over the loss of the Kursk, whir.h suf­fered a massivP. explosion and sank to the Barents Sea floor Aug. 12. Candles were lit in Russian Orthodox churches, and condolences poured in 

black, was greeted in Murmansk bv somber. exhausted na;y officials. then visited a nearby area where 400 relatives of the sailors are quartered. The families heard almost no official information about the rescue operation, rely­ing on television for even the most basic news ­including the announce­ment Monday that their sons and husbands were dead. 
Putin -who has been sharply criticized for taking so long to show concern for the r.rew -was expected to go later to the ship that led the rescue effort and throw a wreathinto the sea where the sailors are 
Dazed relatives demand­ed to be taken the site. too. The navy was considering the plea. 
Emma Yevdokimova, whose son Oleg was a rook on the Kursk. wept uncon­trollably as she recalled how he helped her prepare the holiday dinner last New Year's Eve. 
"When they offered him to join the Kursk, he was so glad," she said on Russia's RTR television. "He was so good. He still is," she said. collapsing into tears as she added, "I still don't believe that he drowned." 
Russians have assailed Putin for not canceling a vacation more quickly when the sub sank and the 
Trying to divert the pub­lic anger. the besieged mili­tary has tried to lay blame on its former Cold War enemies -claiming the Kursk collided with a Western sub. The United States and Britain have denied having any vessels nearby and Norwegian divers who saw the wreck said there was no sign of a collision. 
The top brass has a lot to explain. The media has blasted them for trying to hush up the disaster. then lying about it. 
Public anger increased when Norwegian divers quickly succeeded in open­ing the hatch Monday, after days of failed attempts by 

from around the world. entombed in their wrecked military for resisting for­Russian rescue capsules to Putin. dressed all in submarine, 350 feet below. eign help. reach the submarine. 
Debby skirts Puerto Rican coastline 
islands Tuesday morning. It then sage of "Little Debby."
Associared Press 

made a slight -but crucial -turn Still. the threat was sufficient to SAN JUAN to the north that meant populous disrupt life throughout the northern 
Compact, .quick-moving Oe bby Puerto Rico and the vulnerable Caribbean as residents. tourists, became the first hurricane to make Dominican Republic could be spared businesses and authorities sprang landfall this season. hitting several the worst. into the routine -terrifying to small Caribbean islands on a north­"We've fared well. I'm looking some, exhilarating to others -of westerly route Lhat menaced Puerto outside at my garden, which was bracing for a storm. Rico and thi~ Bahamas arr.hipelago. devastated by Hurrir.ane Lenny last A 78-year-old San Juan man died 
Forecasters said it was too early year, and it still has flowers," said Tuesday, Puerto Rican police to gauge the threat to the U.S. main­Glen Holm. director of the tourism reported. when he fell off a roof as land. bureau on the Dutch island of Saba. he tried to dismantle a television 
With winds up to 75 mph. Debby On nearby St. Maarten. battered antenna. was a Category 1 hurricane, appar­by hurricanes in recent years, a In the U.S. Virgin Islands, the ently causing little damage on curfew was lifted and meteorologist storm r.aused a few power outages Antigua, Anguilla and other small Ashford James celebrated the pas-but little damage. 
_j 
page 6 The Observer . OBSERVER OPEN HOUSE Wednesday, August 23, 2000 
Do you want to write for the only daily 
voice of the students? 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
THEN COME TO THE 
OBSERVER OPEN HOUSE! 
* 
TODAY * 3-6 P.M. 

* 
SDH BASEMENT 


Editors from every department will be in the 
office to answer your questions about the nationally recognized student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. No experience is necessary and there are plenty of jobs available. Come learn how you can be a part of the 2000 Indiana Collegiate 
Press Division 1 Newspaper of the Year. 
If you can't make the open house, feel free to call any of the editors to find out about employment opportunities. Phone numbers are listed in Viewpoint. 

Wednesday, August 23, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
First Master Plan construction projects near coII1pletion 
Best Price, Quality & Selection. 
Futon Factory Futons are the Smart Choice for Back-to-School 
--Futons to fit every room and budget. --Financing &delivery options available. --Close to campus! --Over 500 futon cover fabrics available. --Futon covers start at --8 futon mattress grades. --Over 20 different frame styles fit every decor. --Home accessories & more. --Futon specialists since 1991. 

Shop The Midwest's largest Futon Retailer! 
FUTON FACfORY 
SOFA BY DAY BED BY NIGHT 
0n~!~~oa<I6J!r!,~2:!~11. 
219-273-2660 
. Renovations fill rooms at newly-popular Regina 
By SARAI I RYKOWSKI 
Saim i\!arv's Nt'ws Editot 
Hq~ina I !all is making a 1ww namP for itself this 
VPiIL 
· :\l'tt•r a sumnwr ol' major intnrior n•novation and P:XtPrior updating. the hall i<; open and tilled nPar­ly to i:apurity !'or tlrn first time in more than a dP1·ad1,. 
"Hr,gina t1sl'fl to b<' a µlac11 when1 thoy had sµar1• si11glns !'or 1woplP who had rolllmnate prob­il'ms "'iaid Carl~· GuPrra. HPgina's ncvv Im.JI direr.­tor. "That's not going to happnn any more. The rPsiclPJWP hall is prNt_v mud1 lill~d up." 
lfogina. knrrn·11 for its small singlP rooms and unrnovablt> f'urniwrn, 110\V sports thrne room dou­b!Ps and massivP quads as WP!!. 
"In my opinion I think that these are the bPst rooms on campus, and I've only I.wen herP three WPPks." (;m•rnt said. "Tlw nPw quads are huge and tlw douhks arc rnally nice." 
lhP carpPt in Ht>gina was replar.cd and thr woodm1rk was n•storPd. Th<! ceiling and lights aro lll'W. Each RPgina rf>sidem assistant now has t,vo rooms. and tlwrn are tri[Y!Ps with UV<' rooms. 
"Just from past <~xpnicncc, now that tbe ,resi­dPnr·p hall is filled. ! know there will be an in(TPaSP in thP sense of ('nmmunHy ancl Regina pridn this year,'' Cunrrn said. 
Workt>rs constructnl a romputer lab on earh lloor. and the liHmdry rooms on each floor were turned into lounges. A new laundry room is locat­ed in tlw basement and has new machines. Alarm systPrns WPre upgradRd and new windows were instal!Pd. 
"!L's wonderful," Dennis said. "rt's the best pro­ject wc'vr rvPr clone. It came out better than ,,ve cxpcctr'd. on time. and on budget" 
NPtworking tlw dorm was tlrn last-item to be r:omplPLed in tlw Hegina dorm rooms before the frPshnwn moved in on August 17. At approxi­matr>lv 9::-HJ a.m .. Freshman Orientation Couns,:lor Christine Maurhoff was able to sign on to tlw 1wtwork. A fi.rst-timP resident of Regina, slw had nothing but good things to say of her dorm. 
"I think that it's a grPat irnprovempnt," l\laurhoff said. "They've dorm a nic0. job renovat­ing and it's nice to be able to move your furniture around. HPgina is nice brcause you can have your own lwdroom but also havn a common space in betv\'('f'll t!w rooms to share with your room" 
mate." 

LIZ LANG/The Observer 

The new Dalloway's coffee house and Welcome Center at Saint Mary's may be surrounded by dirt now, but before long it will be open for business. The College expects to finish construction in two weeks. 
. Dalloway's, Welcome Center will open soon 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Saint Mary's News Editor 
There is something new about Saint Mary's campus. The Welcome Center and new Dalloway's coffees house, both poised at the entrance of the campus. are near completion. 
Keith Dennis, director of Finance and Administration, said construc­tion was progressing speedily. 
"We're on punch list phase [at the Welcome Center]," Dennis said. "We're. progressing very quickly [on Dalloway's]." 

The Welcome Center should be done in about two weeks, with the addition of a parking lot, according to Dennis. The basement was recently put in at Dalloway's, and construction should be complete in mid-September. 
"It's been a very busy summer but it's been fun," Dennis said. 
Other, less obvious but no less important changes have been made to make the campus more up-to­date, accessible and more naviga­ble. 
The Facilities Department received ne.y equipment. Office space was reconfigured in Angela Athletic Facility. 
But it is the large blue signs with white writing located around Saint Mary's that are the most visible change, making it easier for visitors to find buildings. 
"[The signs] turned out to be a very good project." Dennis said. Madeleva Hall is also being redesigned. 
"We've pretty well decided how many offices and classrooms we need," Dennis said. "That's moving along well." 
With the increase in enrollment at Saint Marv's, a new student activi­ties center is slated to be built where Noble Family Dining Hall currently stands. Construction will likely begin in the next few years. 

The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 23, 2000 

for the 2000-200 f Acaden1ic Year 
From the Division of Student Affairs 
Rev.}lark L. Poorman, C.S.C. 
Vice President for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-7394 
Mr. William Kirk Dr. G. David Moss · Sr. Mary Louise Gode, C.8.C. Sr. Jean Lenz, 0.8.F. 
Assistant VP for Residence life  Assistant VP for Student Affairs  Assistant VP for Student Affairs  Assistant VP for Student Affairs  
316 Main Building  316 Main Building  316 Main Building  316 Main Building  
631-6144  631-5550  631-5550  631-5550  

Ms. Ann Firth 
Ms. Jennifer Monahan 
Executive Assistant to the Vice President 
Assistant to the Vice President 
316 Main Building 
316 Main Building
631-5550 
631-5550 
..,:i,r,r.,rr,J' ivi,m!!11't""']ll' !i'"'''~ 

ALcuonoL &DRUG EeucAT101· ·· · ,CAMPUS MINISTRY 
Ms. Gina Firth. Director Rev. Richard Warner. C.S.C.. Director 311 Lafortune Student Center 103 Hes~urgh Library Office 631-7970 631-7800 
JW CAREER CENTER -INTERNATIONAL STUDENT SERVICES &ACTIVITIES Mr. Lee Svete, Director Ms. Maureen Frtzgib_bon, Director 248 Flanner Hall 204 Lafortune Student Center 631::-5200 631-3825 
MULTICULTURAL STUDENT PROGRAMS &SERVICES RESIDENCE LIFE 
Ms. Iris Outlaw. Director gj, . --··· : Mr. Jeffrey Shoup. Director 
-'~-f>: ;: 1

210 LaForhme Student Center •.,_ k _:. ·· ; ·· ;__ -..., 306 Main Building 631-6841 fi ' 631-5551 
SECURITY STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
Mr. Rex Rakow. Director Ms. Mary Edgington, Acting Director 101E Security Building 315 Lafortune Student Center 631-5555 631-7308 
UNll'E~ITY HEALTH SERVICES ,;e• STUDENT RESIDENCES 
Ms. Ann E. Thompson. Director 
Mr. Scott Kachmarik. Director 
t '''t ·-.,,.,>t•.. ',.. ·•·•
217 Student Health Center 305 Main Building 631-7497 631-5878 
UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER 
Dr. Patrick Utz. Director 322 Student Health Center 
631-1336 

Wednesday, August 23, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Doiner Fest, not Graffiti Dance, packs Stepan at Frosh 0 
By ERIN LaRUFFA Assi<tant News Editor 
About 2300 first-year students and residence hall volunteers crowded into Stnpan Center Saturday night for the newly rrn­a tnd Donrnr Pest. the event replacing tlw (;rat'fili Dance on tlw freshman oriontatio11 sched­ule. 
Studrnlt Activities created the nPw arlivily with Lhe help of' commissioners from each rnsi­clPncn hall. The change was a response to numerous com­plaint-, about the c;rnlliti Dance, during which frnshnrnn wrote thnir names and wlr1phone num­b,irs on each othPrs' shirts. 
Domn Fest featured a vidP.o dance and carnival-style games. Students also rect>ivml booklets to obtain the 1rnmos and tele­phone numbMs of people they 
mf!t. 
"For a first-limn inaugural event. [Domer Fest! went fine," said Peggy llnatusko, Student ActivitiPs assistant dirertor for programs. 
rest planners wanted to create an activity in which all first-year students would feel comfortable participating. In past years, som c students felt excluded at the Graffiti Dance because of their physical appearance. Students also complained that they felt they were on display. and somP believed that having other people sign their shirts was a form of sexual harass­
ment. 

"The main thing was we want­ed to be non-discriminatory," said sophomorn Morgan Bussell, Pangborn's commissioner. 
kl don't think thP women fnlt as much pressure to talk to the guys than at the Graffiti Dance," Hnatusko said. "There was a lot of Lalking ... Many students used 
who is collecting signatures to were present at 7 a.m. when request an apology from the ticket sales began, so all lot­
Tickets 
administration. "That is not lPry numbers quickly received random and that's not how their tickets and then tickets
continued from page 1 
vou would do a randomiza­were sold to students in the problems he believes nf'ed to tion." order they arrived, said lw corrncted. Ilackett has contacted a senior Mark Donahey. 
One other dil1iculty with the number of University ofilcials "I thought [the lottery sys­svstem was a 11aw in the lot­to determine if anything can tem) was a complete waste of tr.ry drawing that left some be done, but said that officials time," he said. "The people law and graduate students have told her that there will that showed up at seven l'rustratPcl. Because there be no change for this season. o'clock got [the best tickets), werP frwer ol' them than ''I've had absolutely no luck regardless of the lottery. We undergraduatr,s, there were trying to do anything about it had numbers, but you might not Pnm1gh stickers issued to for this year," she said. as well have camped out." niach the "magic" number of Hackett noted that a number O'Donoghue said he could 1098. lnst1,acl of conducting a of people have suggested that not speculate about additional second drawing to determine this system is just as random changes next year. but he did thn starting number for those as if the number drawn had say that the Student Union students, organizers began been one. but she disagreed. will play a smaller role in law and grad ticket sales with "If they pick nurilbr.r 88 and planning the procedure. numbm· om'. I have number 87 and I'm last Instead, future planning \\ill 
"It nwant that it wasn't a in line. that's the luck of the be conducted jointly by lottery and standing in line draw, but this isn't at all that Campus Security, the athletic was futile," said biology grad­case," she said. department, the ticket office uate stuc!Pnt Brandi I Jackett, Ultimately, few seniors and Student Activities. 
the booklets to meet people that to participate. way. "I didn't like it at all," said 
Freshmen who attended the Howard resident Taiss Lewis. "I Domer Fest had mixed feelings felt forced to do it." Similarly, about the new event. McCarthy said that students 
"It was good in the aspc:ict should have been more !'rec to 
that  we  met  "minglo"  
people. It sucked in thP aspect that it  "For a first-time inaugural event [Domer  instead of feel­ing as though they had to  
felt like I was in gradP  Fest] went fine."  take part in planned activ­ 
school," Keough resi­dent John  Peggy Hnatusko Student Activities assistant  ities. Students were not  
McCarthy said. "Overall.  director for programs  required attend  to and  
it was cool."  could loave the  

McCarthy said that he met dance at any time, although any­people at the Domer Fest that he one who left after midnight was plans to see again. But it wasn't not allowed to return. always that easy. "If someone wasn't having a 
"It was more fun to run into good time, they could just leave." the people you'd already met," Husscll said. Howard resident Mary Kate One major problem was that Radelet said. Stepan was too hot and crowded, 
Other freshmen felt pressured according Lo freshmen surveyed. 
Event planners may rP!ocatri the event next year, either to an out­side venue or to a larger arena such as the Jovce Center, according to Hnatu;ko. 
The Graffiti Dance was held on the basketball courts near Stepan, but the lights there were too bright for the video screen used for the dance. For safety reasons, the lights would have to be on during a nighttime event. Therefore, Domer Fest took place inside 
Stepan. 
Both Russell and Hnatusko said that details of next year's Domer Fest may be different. It is possible that something morn closely rnsembling the Graffiti Dance may be added, according to Russell. 
Despite the heat, there was more dancing at Domer Fest. said Hnatusko. who estimated that 1,400 people were on the dance floor at any given time. 

"He's a model of involvement in public issues," said Arnold. ''He
Progratn 
becomes a kind of icon for them continued from page 1 and a hPro." Students of the Hesburgh turning out people who are alert to Program who interned in the the things that are wrong in the Washington, D.C. area were invited world and change them." to attend the ceremony. According to Hesburgh, student "I felt proud that Father activism has progressed significant­Hesburgh worked so hard for Notre ly at Notre Dame in past years. Dame," said Hesburgh Program Hesburgh also encourages Notre member Melissa Jackson. Dame students in a program On a campus where a "Hesburgh named for him, the Hesburgh Mass" can fill every pew, the 83­Program for Public Service. year-old priest continues to con­Through this program, students duct Masses almost daily. obtain a concentration in public Hesburgh also is the honorary service after taking relevant cours­chairman of the United Nations es and completing a public service High Commission for Refugees. internship. Hcsburgh lectures the Last summer he visited ten coun­program's students each year and tries, including Kosovo, for the hands out diplomas at their gradu­Commission. ation ceremony. "The beauty of retirement is you The program's namesake still don't have a given job and you can greatly influences students. direc­do any job,"Hesburgh said tor Peri Arnold said. 
• ' ; :: •, : . ,.>f· 
. -~·'··
' ~ 

-) ' " ...~ .. -... ! 
, J . ~. ... •. ··"' .,,
Ill re~ 
I
.... 

•baall
e11erie1ce 
Discounted Books Fast Deliverv 100% Secure Site 
page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 23, 2000 Wednesday, August 23, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 11 


Bush must explain tax plan 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

Cnorgr W. Bush said TuPsday hn must do a b<:ttnr job of t-\Xplaining to voters how he can cul taxes by $1. 3 trillion and still leavo e n o u g h money to r !' S r ll (1 S n c i a I Sncurity. 
lirjcctillg h r a v y DPmocratir critif'ism of' his µIan. Bush said the proposal was "rnasonablr" and just nn11dt'd to be better undrrstnod Once it is, "people will buy into thP tax rdief plan evrn morr." the Texas govt>rnor S,tid. 
Campaigning l hrough Mjdwrst batth:,ground statPs on tlrn herls of' lkmocrntic rival Al Gorr. Bush trind to of'fsct 



CHEER COACHES NEEDED! 
Exciting children's cheerleading pro­gram will be starting soon in South Bend. We are looking for dependable, mature persons with high school or more cheer experience interested in coaching once a week. Call 765-423-4821 

Tbursdcaqs o Pe students nlqht. .Students •ec::eive 2596 off rneal p•ke with qou• sfudEnf tD. 
U£1 
Mrdaiano's most unique dininq ••P•"i•nce Lccafecl fn the bH'Wff'l at tbe HisfoPic 100 Cenfer in Mislaawalca (219) 257-1792 www.l00cenfer.com 
Italia~cilt 
D~g 
~-----------------~-----------------------------------~-·-·-·-------------­
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
f Join the NEW TRADITION 
---~---------------•­
~ 

rattor1a
• .. 1~0-~9
L_______I
2=-=---3-=---3_ 

end's Newest Italian Restaurant 
Family Owned Tradition Original Family Recipes 
235 S. Michigan St. 
South Bend, In 46601 
www.catalinos.com 


dine in/carry-out reservations recommended 
Democratic criticism of his tax plan as helping mainly the wealthy and endangering the cc:onomic gains of recent years. 
Hir instance, Gore told a vet­erans' convention in Milwaukee on Tuesdav that the Bush plan "would wreck our good econo­
,.
mr. 

Some recent national polls have suggested that a growing number of .\meril:ans think Gore could better deal with the 
U.S. economy than Hush. 
/\!though Bush has been pushing the plan for morP than a year, it has generated little public enLhusiasm, even among some Republicans. · 
"I think they (Americans) arc still trying to figure it out," said R!'p. !fay Lallood. rt-Ill, Bush's host at an airport rally in Peoria, Ill. 
Speaking \\itb reporlnrs aft<'r . the rallv, f.aHood called the package· "Very ambitious.... I think there's some appetite for it. But l think hf' should also be talking about (beingi able to pay down the (national) debt." 
At the rallv. Dush told ihou­sands of supporters, "It is time to have a tax polic:y that is rea­sonable in Arnerir.a.... Not only will we have tax relief. we will have tax reform." 
Bush's plan would cut $1.3 triliion over 10 years. slashing taxes from the wealthiest to the poorest taxpayers. By contrast, Gore has proposed cutting $500 billion over the same period, closely targeting his reductions for specific areas. 
Bush visited elementary schools in Peoria and in the St. Louis suburb of Chesterfield, Mo., to promote reading and school initiatives. 
Later. he was attending three GOP fund-raisers in St. Louis. 
His aides spent much of the day defending his tax plan ­and his dflfense of it. 
Karen Hughes, c:ommunica­tions director for the Bush cam­paign. denied that his promise to do morP explaining was a rear-tion to the post-r:onvention gains in the polls that Gore is enjoying 
"He's going to wntinue to talk about this for the rest of the campaign," shf' said. "He wants to make sure people don't suc­cumb to the misrepresentations and distortions that Vice President Gore is making." 
Speaking earlier aboard his 
plane, Bush said the $1.3 tril­
lion was only a frar:tion of the 
estimated $4.6 trillion federal 
surplus over the same 10-year 
period. 
But. Bush added. ''I've got to 
do a better job of making it 
clear" that there will still be 
plenty left even after his tax cut 
is taken into account and $2.3 
billion is used to help overhaul 
and keep solvent Soc:ial 
Sec:urity. 


Freshman Women 
Saturday, August 26, 2000 at 3:00 p.m. Rockne Memorial 
Qualifications: ND Freshman Women Only. Cheer Experience Necessary, Tumbling Series, Sharp Motions, Dance, Great Attitude and Spirit. 
Malloy receives 
contract extension 
By MIKE CONNOLLY News Writer 
The Board of Trustees voted May 5 to renflw Father Edward Malloy's contract for five more vears as lJniversity president. 
T h e Roard also elected Patrir:k Mr.Cartan as the new chair of the board and made outgoing chair Andrew McKenna a lifo trustee. 
"It's nice to have a vote of confidence from the trustees," Malloy said. "I said thank you yery much and now I will just get back to doing what I was doing." 
Bd'orc the vote, the Roard conducted an evaluation of Malloy's 13 years as presi­dent. An important factor con­sidered by the Board in evalu­ation of Malloy was his expan­sion of the international pro­gram at Notre Dame. In the past few years, the University has opened new facilities in Dublin and London. The 
.London program will also expand to include a summer program in 2001. 
While the fac:e of campus has changed greatly because of the construction of new dorms, a new bookstore and the Campus Ministry building, Malloy lists the expansion of scholarship opportunities as his greatest accomplishment. 


_ 
In his next term, Malloy hopes 
to expand the scholarship 
endowment and create more 
endowed professors.
·•r Lhink scholarship has 
dominatPd the last few years," 
he said. "One of the things 
that we have been successful 
in our campaign is emphasiz­
ing people and programs and 
not buildings. Even though 
the things that people notice 
arc the -buildings and there 
have been significant building 
projects, for me that is just a 
small part of what we have 
accomplished." 
Malloy will also oversee the 
next University-wide review 
and the crnation of a new 10­
year plan next year. 
"I will be articulating things as time goes on but that will be the big University-wide ·effort lo identify what our goals should be for the next few years of our history," he 
said. 
McCartan earned an hon­
orarv doctorate of laws from 
th1-1 Univ1-1rsity last year and 
has served on the board since 
1989. Mccartan is the manag­
ing partner of Jones, Day, 
Reavis & Pogue law firm and 
is a University Fellow. 
McKenna, who received the 
University's Laetare medal at 
the 2000 Commencement 
exercises, retires as chair 
after serving on the board for 
the last 20 years. 
The Board under McKenna 
oversaw the opening of the 
new London program build­
ing, rejected the amendment 
of the non-discrimination 
clause to protect homosexuals 
and turned down membership 
in the Big Ten Conference. 
Gore addresses -veterans 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
War veterans embraced Al Gore as one of their own on Tuesday as the Democratic presidential candidate swatted back at George W. Bush's assertion that America's military is in decline. 
Emphasizing a resume that Bush. the Texas gover­nor. cannot matr,h -an Army tour in Vietnam. ser­vi re on the !louse lntelligrnr:e and Senate Armed Services committees -Gore told a packed 
bousP at the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention that his is no election year conversion. 
Gore, who wore his hat from vrw Post 5021 in Tennessee, said, "It's that year-after-year commit­ment to a strong American defense that makes me so concerned when others try to run down America's mil­itary for political advantage in an election " His audi­ence of mostly aged veter­ans and their spousPs applauded. 


• 
VIEWPOINT 
O
lflE 

page 12 BSERVER Wednesday, August 23, 2000 
THE OBSERVER GUEST COLUMN 
DILBERT 
LATELY, I'VE BEEN FEELING A LOT OF PRESSURE. TO DO WORK. 


E 8 @) 15• 
WALLY, DO YOU 

i ~ 
REALIZE THI$ IS YOUR JOB? 

E 8 
t: 
~ 


SCOTT ADAMS 
THERE -THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT 
I'M TALKING 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Power is inflicting pain and humiliation. Power is in tearing human minds to pieces and putting them together again in new shapes ofour own choosing." 
George· Orwell Author 
l'.0. P.o, (1. Notre Dame. IN 465% 024 Sourh lli111ng H,111, Notte Dame. IN 46~~(, 
EDITOR IN CnrnF 
Mike Conn<illy 

MANA(;JNt, EDITOR 811s1NESS MANAGER Norc~n Cilbp1c Tim Lane 
Assr. MANA(;ING EurroR Ol>ERATIONS MANAGER Tim Logan Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie /v1aningly VJF.WPOINT [OITOR: Lila Haughey Sr0RTS EmT0R: Kmy Smich SCENE EDITOR: Amand,1 Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Eli1 . .ibcth Lang 
ADVF.RTISING MANAGER: Pac Peters /\o DL,ICN MANAGER: Chris Avila Svs·r£MS AllllflNISfR,HOR: Mik,, Gu11ville WEB Al>MINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTRlll.LER: Boh Wood, GnAl'IIICS Eo!ToR: Jose Cudl,ir 
CONTACT Us OfflCE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX.........................................................631-(,927 AIWF.RTISING .. .. ... .. . ............631-6900/8840 
oh:;crver@da1win.cc. nd.edu EDITOR IN CHl!'F.... .. .....................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/As..H. ME.. .................. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................6.11-5.U3 
obscrvcr.ohsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................63 1-5303 observer.viewpGint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................6.11-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE .......... .. ..................... 631-4540 Gbserver.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.. .., ................... 631-4324 
ohserver.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.... .. .........................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WF.8 At>MINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sice at hup:llob1rrver.11ded11 for daily upd,aes ofcamrus nc-ws, spans, features and orinion columns, a.s wdl as cartoons, revitws ,nd breaking news from rhc Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mmic for 

weekly smdent reviews
minute forecast, 
online features for spe­
advertise for l"'licics 
and rares ofprim ad, 
cial campus coverage 

about The Observer
archives m search for 
., rtides 1n1hlished atier 
to mce1 the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer i, the inde1,endent, daily newspaper published in prim .111d online by rhe srndencs of the University ofNocrc I ),1me du Lac and Saim M,iry's College. Edirnri.il concrnr, includmg Jdvercisenwnrs, is nm governed hy policies of rhe adminimarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse .1dwrtisemems h.tst"(I on co111enc. 
The 11,·ws i, rq1oned as accurately and objeccivdy as pos,ihle. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of ch,· majority ofdw Fdiwr in Chief. Managing Edimr. As.sisranc Ma11agi11g Edimr Jnd deparrmenc cdirors. Co111111emarics, letrers md cohmms presem the view, of the .imhors and not neccssJrily those of'The Observer. 
Viewl'oim space i, available co all re-Jders. The free expression ofall opinions through leuer.1 is enrnuraged. l,c,crcr., ra d1<· Ediwr musr be .1ignt.>J an<l rnu.,r include conr:1cr infor111~1io11. 
<211mwm rrg111diny_ ()/,sr,vcr po/icier slum!d br dirm­ed ltJ Fdiwr 111 Chirf'Miltr Comw/ly. 

Letting power prevail in the U.N. 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
lie is known by many names. Some call him Kundun or "the presence." Officially he is Jetsun Jamphel Ngawang Lobsang Yeshe Tenzin Gyatso, which means Holy Lord, 
Martha Knox
Gentle Glory, Compassionate 
Defender of the 
Faith and Ocean 
The lantern 
of Wisdom. lie calls himself a simple Buddhist monk. llowever, he was born Lhamo Dhondrub. and is known to most of 
the world as the 14th Dafai Lama. 
The Dalai Lama is the Tibetan Buddhist leader. In 1989 he won the Nobel Peace Prize for his non-violent opposition to China's occupation of his country. Last Thursday, he was not 1wen invited lo the Millennium World Peace Summit at the United Nations, despite the fact that more than a thou­sand other religious leaders around the world were invited. The reason: Fear of offending Chinese leaders. 
China began gaining control of Tibet in the 1950s. During thn occupation more than 1.2 million Tibetans were killed, 120,000 were thrown into exile. many women wcrn forcibly stArilized and (J,000 monasteries were destroyed, Even today, thfl Chin1\se will not reveal tlrn whereabouts of the Panchen Lama. Tibet's second most important figure. In 1959 the Dalai Lama sought asylum in India for more . than 80,000 Tibetans. 

The Dalai Lama is an extrnmely valuable figure in the effort toward world peace. He is the spiritual leader of millions of Buddhists in the world, including many in the United States. 
Because of his Nobel Peace Prize and his non-violent opposition to China, the Dalai Lama is a positive inspiration and symbol of hope for many suffP-ring at the hand of oppressive governments in the world. Ile is very well educated, being aware of and inlluenced by other cultures and religions. 
The philosophy of the Dalai Lama is the oppositP. or religious or political righteousness. He favors "secular ethics" for the world as a whole and stresses thn responsibility or all people to take care of each other rather than only depending on institutions. 
China, on tlrn other hand, is a prime target for human rights activists. It easily leads the world in executions (don't worry Dubya, Texas is gaining fast). Many refugees neeing the forced abortion and sterilization policins am seeking asylum in other countries, including the United States. Most rnccntly China has been using the Internet to further violate human rights, such as in the case or Iluang Qi. Qi faces possible life imprisonment for electronically publishing information about the 1989 military crackdown at Tianamen Square wlrnrn thousands of civilians were shot. 
It is understandable that the U.N. is trying to be careful. China is a power­ful country and it will be necessary to sometimrs compromise in order to achieve peace. However, people should be leery of what kind of mnssagn leav­ing the Dalai Lama out of the Summit will send to the rest of the world, as well as what nwssagc it sends to China. It could bn tak«m as support of China's occupation of' Tibet, or a sign of weakness on the part of United Nations leaders. 
Wlrnn the U.N. sacrifices some ol' its stated principles, ev,~n in dTorts toward a higher good, all it really docs is put itself at t!w mercy of bullies. Tlw 
U.N. has aln~ady bePn harshly criti­cized by several world human rights organizations for failing to formally criticize China's human rights record. 
If the U.N. is trulv dcstinml to Iliad the world toward IlPace, it is going to havn to b11 a stronger lead,ir. 
This column first appeared in the Ohio State University newspaper, The Lantern, on /\ugu,'>l 17, 2000, and is reprinted here courtesy of U-W/RH 
The uicws expressed in lhis column are I.hose of I.he author and not neces­sarily those of The Ohseroer. 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Wednesday, August 23, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
Viewpoint's Policy 
Anyone may submit letters to the editor, quotes, poems and cartoons to the Viewpoint department of The Observer. Items submitted by members of the Nolrn Dame and Saint Mary's community will be given preference for publication. 
The opinions Pxprnssed in the Viewpoint section are not necessarily those of the editorial board. Regular columnists. those whose columns appear on a regular basis; guest columnists, those whose columns do not appear on a regular basis: letters to the editor; poems, quotes and cartoons are commentaries. 
Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Fditor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. The House Editorial Guidelines and the In House Guidelines are included in thA House Editorial Policy. 
All commentarfos submitted to The Observer must include the signature and phmrn number of the author. Letters. to the r,ditor may not exceed 350 words. The Viewpoint editor may shorten any letter regardless of length or deem it worthy of print in its entirety. 
All material submitted to the Viewpoint department becomns the property of The Observer. Any further use of thesn commentaries without the written consent of The Observer is prohibited. Not-for-profit organiza­ti()ns, those organizations which have a reciprocal usage agreement and those organizations of which The Observer is a member may be granted permission to publish commentaries with the permission of the Editor in Chief or the permission of the Managing Editor and the Viewpoint Editor. 
The Viewpoint department reserves the right to edit all commentaries. The Observer has no obligation to print submittr,d commirntaries. Such works will not be printed if they are libelous, unintelligible or irrelevant. 
Relovance will be determined with respect to interest of a particular issup, on a local, national or world level, extension of existing issues on the Viewpoint pages, and/or role in fostering spirited and intelligent discus­sion. A disclaimer will appear with any letter deemed highly graphic, profane or discriminatory, yet nonethe­less relevant. The disclaimer will appear at the begin­ning of the letter and will alert readers to the serious nature of the pim:e in question. 
Commentaries submitted as letters to the editor may not exceed three in number from the same individual or organization within the same academic semester. There is no limit to the number of times an individual or organization may have their commentaries appear in print as columnists. 
All commentaries printed in the Viewpoint section must be verified before publication. Authors of columns, letters to the editor, quotes, poems and car­toons must be verified before their work is printed in The Observer. 
Only those individuals authorized to speak as repre­sentatives for a group will be allowed to use the organi­zation's name. In such cases. the primary author of the commentary is the individual(s). and the commentary is. in effoct, cosigned by the organization. 
Commentaries which appear in the Viewpoint section may not have bcnn printed previously in other nPwspa­pnrs, magazines or publications. In exceptions, the author ol' the previously primed material must give legal consent. Work from organizations of which The Observer is a member. quotations used for commen­tari.is, "Quote of the Day" and syndicated columns are excluded from this procedure. 
Paid employees of The Obsrrvrr are not permitted to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint sec­tion as l<Hters to the editor. Hegular columnists and mcmb<1rs of the Viewpoint staff also arc not C'!igible to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint sec­tion as lettr.rs to tho editor. The status of such individu­als is determined by the Vie'vvpoinl Editor. 
Thank you on behalf' of the Viewpoint staff ancl 
Editorial Board, for compliance with these guidlines. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

''Coach D'' addresses the students 
I want to thank you for an exciting year. I asked you to come ·out and support the team, and you did. 
We had a lot or fun togetlrnr. I will miss you all a great deal! I wish you all the best of luck. I will follow the team closely. Notre Dame will always be a part of me. Thanks for everything. 
Matt "Coach D" Doherty University ofNorth. Carolina, Head Coach August 18, 2000 


Favor efficiency over tradition 
There is an obsession at .'-Jotre Dame: tradition. own established stadium section and where with­
Many would argue that, more than anything in each section seating was general admission else, one must love tradition in order to love would serve better the needs and wants of the Notre Dame. students. It would give reason for students to 
Some might contend a stronger a position that party less and get there earlier. It would provide Notre Dame and tradition are interchangeable a chance for the most die-hard fans to be up nouns. However, I doubt that many would sug­front where they belong. gest that there be no limitations to our hallowed Most importantly, it would eliminate the need­traditions. The recent football season ticket dis­less worry and waiting for tickets during the tribution provides a fresh example of where tra­busy first week of classes and activities. Maybe dition ought to surrender to efficiency and com­I'm wrong, but maybe it's time that we abandon mon sense. Let's face it. No matter how much this tradition of student season football ticket effort and energy is directed towards establish­distribution which has failed many attempts by ing the actual ticket issue as a tradition, the falling short of so many expectations. hoopla is misplaced. Those in charge of Kickoff 2000 indubitably are well-intentioned. Yet, all 
.the more, we desire a simple ticket distribution Jacob T. Rodenbiker process unhindered by long lines and promises of Sophomore, Keenan Hall popcorn. August 22, 2000 
I suggest a system where each class had its 
Viewpoi~+ ~eeds youl JV\terested iV\ editiV\9? JV\terested iV\ writiV\9? 
Call Lila fo~ info~mafionl 
1-5303 or observer.viewpoint.1@nd.edu 

T E L I 0 N 
page 14 Wednesday, August 23, 2000 
Surviving the real world o 
Ratings have been soaring and networks have been jumping at the ne 
Bv LAURA KELLY 
A;<i,r:im Scene Fdin,r 
Tlw higgPst lt>lt•vision cxpr-riment of the summer comes lo a11 e11d as Amcricu finally finds out who the "Survivor" will bn tonight on CBS. No matter who wins tlw million dollars -Rudy, Rich. Susan or I\.Plly -thn rul1is f'or sumnrnr television -once consid,;rPd to lw tlw wasteland of sitcom reruns ­w1\r1~ rnwrittcn this ypar with tlH' arrival of' "rcalily­has1•d TV ... 
Shows like\ "Survivor" and "Big Brothnr" play off the\ succnss of' MTV's "The Heal World" and "Hoad Hules" by l'ilming thn rnal lifP adventures of' ordi­nary ;\nwricans transplanted inlo flXinwrdinary sit­uaflons. Criticizf'd hy some as voyeuristic and inva­sivn, reality-based TV has produced unprecedented ratings. CBS, one,, thought lo be the least hip and youthful of tlw big three networks, has benefited the most from llm rnality shows thanks to tlrn suc­c·nss of "Survivor" and "Big Brother." 
Although thcs1\ reality-based shows are novelties for llrn nl'lworks, cabin stations like MTV have been relying on their success for ynars. For nine seasons, "The Ilea! World" has been revealing what happens wlrnn seven 20-snmething strangers are picked to share one house and "find out what happens when p<\ople slop being polite and start getting real." Gc•nernting some of MTV's highest ratings, "The H11al World" producfld the spin-off "Hoa.ct Rules" in which six similarly angst-fillnd college students travel thn country in a Winnnbago and complete adventurous missions for cash prizes. 
Tlw popularity of "The Heal World" and "Hoad Hules" lim; in l111iir rPalistic portrayal of conflicts !wtwcen strang,1rs thrown tognther in a novel living situation. Whnn tlrn public grows tired with sitcoms and dramalic series, the freshness of' reality TV lwcomcs app"aling: no beautil'ul e1dt1britics to envy, no annoying laugh track. This summer's '"rcality­basnd TV" d1His the sarnn, but with a twist: a huge cash n\ward for whomevnr outlasts all the others and wins tile popularity ()f their follow contestants or the televi­sion public. 
"Survivor" blends the greed popu­larized by "Who Wants to Be A Millionairn'?" with -the dt)sert island of "Gilligan's Island" and th<' soap opera drama of "Tho Hirn! W or Id." "Survivor" has bPcome CBS's top show this summer, shooting to No. 1 in the ratings in just five weeks with 25 mil­lion weekly viewers. Beginning in March 2000, 16 castaways -eight men and eight women -wern marooned on Pulau Tiga, a remote tropical island in 

the South China Sea. They were divided into two tribes, the Tagi and the Pagong, and forced to create their own society in order to survive without any modern con­veniences. The survivors built shelter, gathered and caught f'ood (rats being the most exotic fare I. and took part in contests for rewards like cold beer or clean cloth­ing. During the 39 days of "Survivor," a full camera crew followed their every move, producing a one-hour television Apisocle for Aach three days of island life. 
The motto of "Survivor" reveals its true 
competitive nature: "Outwit -outplay ­outlast." All 16 contestants battled to be the last remain­ing on the island, the ultimate survivor who would be rewarded with $1,000,000. Every three days, the cast­aways formed a tribal council. At this meeting, each voted by secret ballot to Sflnd one fflllow castaway home, eliminating him 
with the wAakAst or l<rnst-popular mmnbers elimi­. nated by tribal councils. Mark Burnett, executive producer of "Survivor," calls the show "two parts adventure contest, eight parts surviving the peer 
Nielsen's Ratings Aug. 14 -20 

Both of CBS' hit reality shows were in the top five for the past week. 
1. 
"Survivor," 18.02 million homes. 

2. 
"Who Wants to be a Millionaire," 

14.63 million homes. 


3. 
"Who Wants to be a Millionaire," 


14.65 million homes. 4."WhoWantstobeaMillionaire," 
13.83 million homes. 

5. "Big Brother," 10.91 million homes. 
or her 
group." 

Plans for Survivor II am alnrndy in the works. Prrimiering in early 2001, it will be set in th!\ Australian outback, and 50,000 hopP­f'uls have already applied. The "docu­soap" has especially caught on with the group rrntworks arc constantly trying to attract: the 18 to 34 ynar-old demo­graphic. 
A "Survivor" spin­off that has brought CBS additional suc­cess · is "Big Brother." Thu show that has been a 

from eligibility for Urn money. Thus the 
name from George Orwell's novel "I <J84," strippingshow became a survival of the fittest, 
its contestants of all privacy and contact with tlw 
MTV's "The Real World" and CBS' "Big Brother" both showcase minute to minute video insight into the lives of several strangers forced to live toget_her. The contestants for each show live in different settings (one furnished nicely, the other barren) and stay for different incentives (fun activ­ities versus money). 
Photos courtesy · of www.mtv.com and www.cbscom 

huge hit in Germany and the Nntherlands takes its 
8cene 
We are currently seeking copy editors, mu Inter Call Amanda at 1-4540 or 

T E L 
Wednesday, August, 23, 2000 serious issues of pri.vacy, dee.ency and the future of entertainment. Critics say "Survivor" promotes selfishness, encourag­ing conflict between cast members in order to eliminate th~1 weak. Cooperation and teamwork am shunned as each person sets their sights on tho million dollars. "Big Brother" doesn't allow its participants a moment to themselves -every minute of their day is broadcast live on the Intermit. Some call these shows voyeuristic and inva­sive. and wonder what rules are left for television to follow. 


Another issue is tho question of "reality"' -how realistic can a contrived television program be? In the selection of contestants and the Pditing of film the producers clear­ly manipulate the ploL line and outcome of the show. Also, many contestants enter the show seeking their 15 minutes of fame, act­ing outrageously or intentionally starting con/1icts in order to get noticed. Thus it is hard to believe any of these living situa­tions are truly realistic, from the trendy "Real World" mansions to the stark "Big Brother" compound. 
Regardless of whether reality-based shows are actually realistic or promote good values, the ratings prove their popu­laritv. And if one rule of television remains, it is· that success will be imitated. :½any new reality shows are already in the works. A popular Dutch show from the producer of "Big Brother" is "Now or Never," in which a phobic contestant is confronted with his or her worsi fear. NBC wants to buy the rights to "Chains of Love," a new dating show in which a girl is chained to four men for five days, eliminating one each day until one lucky man wins cash and a date. 
And even if Fox's high school documen­tary "American High" bombed in its first few weeks, the success and allure of reality TV indicates that many more imitators are on their way. 

I 0 N 
AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 
page 15 


Photo courtesy of www.obs.com CBS' hit survivor has sparked record ratings, merchandise lines, calendars -even a CD. But will viewers stay tuned in if the winner is revealed early? 
East Coast may spill who survives: After F.ast Coast television viewers learn who the ''Survivor" winner is Wednesday night, can the well-kept secret hold for a few hours more until the rest of the country tunes in? Not if some radio stations and Internet sites have their way. "We'd probably tell. That's what we do," said a mischievous Mark Thomas, assistant program director for Los Angeles station KFI. But listeners will get fair warning if they want to avoid knowing who el.aims the show's $1 million prize before "S\l_Fivor" airs in time zones outside the East. The two-hour finale i's set for 8-10 
p.m. EST Wednesday on CBS. ( At Denver station KOA, which is affiliated with CBS and ABC, a disclaimer will precede any announcement. "I think people react negatively to a party pooper," said Jerry Bell, KOA's news director. "If somebody's driving home we wouldn't want to blow it for him." Overeager fans can go directly to the Internet. As soon as news reports move with the winner's name, Yahoo! plans to post them. The Denver Post Web site, among others, said jt will put the information up as soon as it's available. Not everybody is rushing to spill the beans. Los Angeles news radio station KFWB plans restraint, said news director Crys Quimby. "It's been ongoing for such a long time, I prefer not to spoil it for anybody inadvertently," she said. KNX, a CBS station that will broadcast the "Survivor" town hall meeting airing after the show, also plans to keep quiet. "It's like tearing out the last page of a book and reading it. You just don't do that," said KNX news director Robert Sims. Non-CBS TV stations are unlikely to make a big deal about the show, which has been a summer hit for CBS. KNBC in Los Angeles said w·hether it airs the result at all will be up to the pro­ducer of its 11 p.m. newscast. 
-
Big Brother contestant an outcast at home: Karen Fowler, who spent six weeks living in CBS's "Big Brother" house, plans to leave her own home. She said that on-air discussions of her troubled marriage have made her an outcast in the community, and that she plans to move to California with one of her four daughters -and without her husband of 22 years, Tom. 'Tm sickened by the way people want to judge me so quickly and defend him," said Fowler, 43. 
. Viewers voted Fowler off the show last week, just as she had hoped. She told The Indianapolis Star she was on the verge of a nervous breakdown -ready to divorce her husband, worried about her children and constantly under stress from the cameras that watched her every move. Contestants on the show compete to outlast flacl1 other in the house. The final onfl remaining after three months wins $500,000. 
eeds you!! ~c and movie reviewers and feature writers. 
sted? 
-mail her ·at scene@nd.edu 
page J6 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 23, 2000 
Coach 
continued from page 28 
White had an inkling Notr!' Dame mighl be in need of a nnw coach. 
So on July 5. White began a pre-search mode, calling 40 to 50 basketball experts to scout out potential replacements. From there, he formed a list of 10 possible roaches. When Doherty resigned, White had already narrowrd the list to three. lie quickly zeroed in on Brey as tlw top rhoice. 
"I ran't begin to tell you how excite<l I am about Coad1 Brey and the coaching staff." White said. "I think we've really helped oursnlves... 
Bn~y. who interviewed for the Irish head coaching posi­tion in 1999. brought a combi­nation of' experienr.P, youth and stability to the table. Although just 41 years old. his 
coarhing pedigree is impres­sive. 
lie bngan his r.oaching career at high school basket­ball powerhouse DeMatha High School in Washington. 
D.C. beneath Lht1 legendary 
Morgan '\Nooten. 
Arter live yP,.trs. Brey moved on to bn an assistant coach at Duke Univnrsitv undnr Mike Kryzewski. Du;ing his eight seasons al Duke. Brey helped lead thP. Blue Devils to Hix Final Four appearanrcs and two NCM titles. 
In 1995, Brey took over as head coarh at Delaware. a membM of the American Fast ConferPncP. !!is last thrPe years al Dt!lawan! formed the most succr.ssful strntr.h in Delaware basketball history. T h e B I u e II irn s w o n 2 0 o r more games each snason, earning two bids in the NCM Tournament and one in the 
NIT. 
Brny hopes to lead Notre Dam11 to the same type ol' sur­cess Duke has had. starting with its first NCAA Tournanwnt bid in 11 years. 
"The rnalistic thing for us to talk about is bAing in the NCAA Tournament." Brny said. 
Doherty left some big shoes to fill, perhaps more for his recruiting pitch than his work on th11 court. 
Thr, charismatic young coach brought Irish fans back
-
CLASSIFIEDS 
to the Joyce Center in swarms. lie sold Notre Dame to recruits. luring T(irrian Jones, Tom Timmermans and Chris Markwood for this sea­son. and two top-100 rerruits for the 2001-02 season in Chris Thomas and Jordan Cornette. He pulled in All-Big 12 player Ryan Humphrey as a transfer from Oklahoma. And his dose relationship with Murphy helped sway the power forward to rnmain a member of the Fighting Irish. 
Although Doherty formed deep ties at Notrn Dame, LhP Nurth Carolina position held special pull for him. Ills wife's family lives in North Carolina. and he himself played for th(' Tar Heels. 
"I wouldn't have left Notre Dame but for one place, and that's the place I'm at now," Doherty said. 
Hut leavp he did, leaving Notre Dame high and dry at a time when most college bas­
Age: 41 ~:· h ~
.J...,r;; eyes on... '1' 
Birthdate: March 22J 1959 
Birthplace: Rockville, Md. 
Family: wife Tish, son, Kyle, 13, daughter, Callie, 10 
Education: S.S. in Physical Education, George Washington Univ. 
Coaching Experience: 
1982 MikeBri

Head Coach, Delaware Univ. 1995-2000 Asst. Coach, Duke Univ. 1987-1995 Asst. Coach, DeMatha High School 1982-1987 
Awards and accolades: 
Delaware qualified for the NCAA Tournament in two of Brey's five seasons as head coach. 
Duke advanced to six NCAA Final Fours, four national title games and two NCAA championships during Brey's eight seasons at Duke. 
DeMatha ranked No. 1 in nation by USA Today. Team captain and MVP at George Washington in 1981. 

ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  Centers are also lookrng tor volunteers  3 bdrm apt. home at 616 E. Howard SI.  Beautilul brass bed, queen size, with  2 months, 2 weeks, 2 days.  
A.M.-232-2378  who enjoy young children  Available immediately. Walking distance  orthopedic mattress set and delux&  
TICKETS  P.M.-288-2726  If you would be interested in spending two hours a week reading children's  to campus, accessible to public trans­portation. $500 ea. Sec. Dep. 01 $250 ea.  frame. All new, never used. still in plastic. $235.  Hope you're leeling better, silly.  
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  books, building with blocks, and singing  Call 289-9484.  235-862-2082  Congrats Janel on your big decision!  
BUSINESS MAN NEEDS  A.M.•232-2378  songs with children, please contact  We're behind you no matter what!  
Nebraska tickets or season  P.M.-288-2726  ECDC-ND at 631·3344 or ECDC-SMC at  N.D. Rental  River Isle axe. Condo on the river in  
G.A. only. 277-1659  284-4693  Lake!ront home on Magrcian Lake avail­ Mishawaka. Beautilul view ot the river  Yay, toolball tix al 7am. Good morning,  
NEED: Thre& lick&ls lo 1 &~as A&M tor  able weekly, ortor wknds. 3 bdrms, 1 1/2  trom living room, dining room. kitchen and  Christina!  
FOASALE  lamrly  Officials needed for Baseball, Stow and  baths, deck. screened rn porch.  bdrm. Also has swimming pool. prer,  
STANFORD. AIR FORCE. BOSTON.  Call John, 4-2795  Fast Pitch Softball. and Flag Footba II.  This home ,s nrcely furnished and over­ sauna, exercise room and clubhouse  Good luck Bridget on your first day at col­ 
Cheap  This is a great opportunity to eam good  looks a beautiful lake and Is close to  Call Frank 299-1909  lege. You'll do great!  
654-0168  Football tickets  money.  Indian lake Goll Course.  Jack 257-114 1/674-6593  
t want to purchase 4 tickets to the  Contact the RecSports oftice (Peter  Also In !he area are many apple orchards  No Wednesday classes makes up for 14  
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280  Stanto,d game on October 7th_ The seats must be ,n the area of the Nolf& Dame band  Shoop or Jeff Walker)@ 631-6100, or stop by the office in the Rolfs Sports Recrea1ion Center loday. You can also e­ ready tor picking. 1his home will sleep 6. $350 weekends  Gold 3-cushlon sofa, $200; oval cottee table, glass top, $75: curtain/drapery rods, $35 for all; 3 round lamp tables, $40  hou,s at the O in one day. Hey to all my friends at Turtle Creek, stop  
SELLING  Call AflthOny Russo. 1-908-688-3232  mail us al recsporl@nd.edu.  $850 weekly. 630-964-6620  ea; wing chair, $75; TV table, $20. Can be seen at 17675 Cobblestone Ct.  by and see me.  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  ND Prof and wife seek babysitter in our  616-424-3246  Call 277-1639.  Week and a half Iii the lirst lootball game.  
251-1570  home T-TH 9 AM-1 PM (later ii possible).  Tailgating here we come.  
VICTORY TKTS  WANTED  3 greal kids, aged 7 mos to 5 yrs. Experience/references required.  In-Home B&B. FB wknds--sleep up lo 8  1V, VCR and MICROWAVE All excellent condition (VCR brand new).  What I wouldn't do tor a little sleep.  
BUY'SELL·TRADE  Please cat[ 631-3654 or email meiss·  Some wltix.  must sell this week. Call Peter, 251-0815,  
...,  ND FOOTBALL 232-0964  EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT CENTER  ner.1@nd.edu  2 mi N of ND 219·277·4759  or email adamson.4@nd.edu  Hope you had tun al Corby's and Club last night.  
www,v1ctorytickets.com  PAID & VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES  Condo-townhouse 2 bdrms, 1 1/2 bath  
Need two tix to ND vs. W Virginia, Saturday. Oct. 21 Please call 813-969-3339.  Earn money ana build resume experrance while 1nteract1ng wilh delightful young children.  FOR RENT  Two Bedroom apartments tor lease 2000· 2001 year, Also leasing apartments/ houses for 2001-2002 year.  w/fireptace. All updated. Must see. Mid $70s. Call 219·291-8601.  Matchbox 20 at the JACC. ~D linally gets a good concert! who's a big tan of the summer otymp1cs?  
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911  The Early Childhood Development Centers at Sarni Marys College and the University of Notre Dame are currently  CONDO FOR RENT 2 BR & 2 BATH, W/D. DISHW. MICAW, FIREP, CLUBHOUSE, SWIMMING  Dave 291-2209.  PERSONAL  Thanks for the loyalty, Aaron Heilman  
ALWAYS BUYING NEBRASKA 271•9330 TICKET MART BUY/SELL'TRADE ALL GAMES 271-9330  accepting appticaliMs from college stu­dents for part time employment positions. Th& hours vary, ,nclud1ng MWF 8-9 am and MWF 11 a.m-1:30 p.rn. II you are interested in applying, please contact Karr Alford, Program Director at ECDC-SMC, at 284-4693 or Thayer Kramer, Program Director at ECDC-ND, tor more rnlorma!lo•~ and an applicalion.  POOL, WALK TO CAMPUS: GRAD OR FACULTY ONLY 273·6378 OR 219-482·2714 SOUTH BENO LODGING In-home B&B lodging !or football games & ND-SMC events. Close to campus. Breakfast included. Call 219·243-2628 or ga,yb@rnvrllage.com  FOR SALE 99 VW Beetle GLS, dk. Blue, 5-spd man• ual trans, 6 CD changer, air, alloy 160 wl1eels, 12,800 miles, exc. Cond. $16.300. 219-258-4454  I need your help! I'm a '92 ND grad and lost my yearbook in a Hood. II you know anyone who has a '92 yearbook and would not mind part,ng with ii. please call me at 830-772-5956 or email at ~eiejllmrndspriao com Thank you, Cnstina Ortiz  Here's to a great year! bomba best summer al my lile tun 1n the sun smite  
The Early Childhood Development  

ketball changes were over and done. 
Doherty leaving came as a shock to most. of the Irish bas­ketball squad. 
"At lirst you expected him to stick around," Murphy said. "You almost didn't believe it when you heard he· was leav­ing. It sunk in when you saw him at the Carolina press con­forence. With Macleod. you heard the rumblings. You were more prepared for it to happen. Them was going to be a day whAn I rouldn 't plaJ for him. That day came sooner than I expected." 
So when Brey climbed on board. h11 had several priori­ties. including rmsuring the team that he would stick around.. 
'Tm hoping this is the last stop," Brny said. "If it isn't, it's from their point of view, not. mine. This is where you ride it out. 
"My first priority after get­ting the job was the current team." Brey continued. "I think they'v11 been really good considering !'or some of them it's the third coach in three years. A guy has to earn their trusl." 
He managed to do so. keep­ing all current team members in the fold. and retaining the verbal rommitments of Thomas and Cornette. 
"I was kind of hurt at first," . llumphrey said of his reaction to Doherty's resignatiun. "BuL now it's Coach Brey's team. I think he'll leave a stamp on Notre Dame where people for­get about Coach Doherty. I think we have the right coach for thP job." 
Sophomore Matt Carroll agreed with Humphrey's assessment. 
"I was pretty much just Shocked," Carroll said. "That was the last thing I expected to happen when I came back for summer school. But I think it actually made us stronger." 
"Coach Doherty did a great _job. but he came in on the right situation," junior David Graves said. "He had great. players to lead, which is a credit to Coach Mar:Lt;rnd." 
Besides getting to know the players, Brey had to hire a new coaching staff. 
Sean Kearney. Brey's top assistant at Delaware. fol­lowed Brey to Notrn Dame, and will serve as associate coach. 
The other two. assistant roaches are Anthony Solomon and Lewis Preston. Solomon served as assistant athletic director at Clemson the past two vears, while Preston hails from Coastal Carolina University, where he was an assistant· coach. Rod Balanis will be the new director of basketball r)perations. coming to Notre Dame from Colgate. 
Players' comments 
"His [Brey's] experience and his leadership will put us over the edge and get u.s into the tourament to make a big run. " 

Graves 


"We've been through it before [a coaching change}, and hopefully we won't have to go through it again." 
Murphy 

"/ kind offigured Coach [Doherty] would take it. I was kind ofdisap­pointed at first, but i-t was like his dream. " 

Swanagan 

The Ohserver accepts classifieds every husiness day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-d,1y classifieds is 3 p.m. Al ch,ssifieds must he prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Ohserver reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refonds. 
......---------------------­
Wednesday, August 23, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
ATTENTION CLUB OFFICERS! 
Don't forget the important upcoming events and information .... 
CONCESSION STAND FOLDER PICDP 
All student groups which have been allocated a concession stand have until this Friday, August 25, to pick up their concession stand folder from the Student Activities Office. For more information, visit: www.nd.edu/~sao/cs/ 
CONCESSION STAND FOOD SERVICE RAINING 
The next concession stand training session will be held this afternoon (Wednesday, August 23) at4:00 PM in Montgomery Theater in the Lafortune Student Center. If you have a stand for the A&M or Nebraska game, be sure to send at least 3 reps to be trained! Ifyou were trained last year, it is still good for this season (although, you may wish to get a refresher!). 
AFS PASSWORD PICIUP 
Student groups with AFS accounts will be able to pick up their AFS passwords from the Student Activities Office beginning next week. Details will be mailed to the AFS account administrator for your group. 
ACTMTIES NIGHT 
Activities Night will be held on Tuesday, August 29 at the Joyce Center from 7pm -9pm. Table numbers for Activities Night 2000 will be made available this Friday, August25 on the Student Activities Office web site. For more info, check out: www.nd.edu/~sao/an/ 
CllB RESOURCE CENTER SPACE ALLOCATION REVIEW 
All student groups which have been allocated space in the Club Resource Center are required to stop by the CRC sometime between the following hours: Wednesday, August 30 I:00 PM -4:00 PM 
Thursday, August 31 1:00 PM-4:00 PM The purpose of this review is to verify how much space your group has been allocated, review CRC/Lafortune policies, and allocate any remaining storage space. Clubs which fail to attend could lose their allocated space. Questions should be directed to the Student Activities Office by e-mailing sao@nd.edu. 
HOUSEKEEPING MATTERS.u 
Please submit any changes ofofficers since you registered your club back in April. Forms are available in 315 Lafortune. Copies ofThe Source will be available at Activities Night. Please be sure to attend. Check your mailbox in the Club Resource Center, 314 Lafortune. Some mail may have accumulated over the summer. 
-
' 
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
- I  
'  
'  
'  
- I  

QDISTIIIISP 

Please contact the Student Activities Office by calling 631-7308 or e-mailing sao@nd.edu. 


The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 23, 2000 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Best friends Tait and Straub share friendly colllpetition 

JEFF HSU/The Observer 

Sophomore forward Rafael Garcia (No. 11) will be looked to for some offen­sive moves this season. The Irish have a final preseason game this weekend before entering the regular season schedule. 
·•••No &;Ne' 
"' 

;OUTGOING, SERVERS (1 HOSTS, BARTENDERS (21 +), AND COOKS. No EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 
APPLY WITHIN: 
LONESTAR STEAKHOUBB·· AND SALOON 
725 N. 0RAPS R 
matns in Zahm I fall. By NOAH AMSTADTER "I think it's a ma! healthy competition. Spum Wrire, OIT tlrn linlcl wo'rn bPst f'riends, on tlrn 
!fold wn want what's bnst f'or na('.h otlwr. 
The Notrn Dame mon's soccer toam Even in drills we're pushing each otlwr to w:-Lik0d off the field for th<' first timo this bP tbt'\ best that we can. We rnalizP that year in victorious fashion following a 1-0 whatever dPrision is mad<', it's tlw victory ovPr I .oyola (Chir.agol in Monday roar.h's decision and wP're going to sup­afternoon's exhibition ganrn. port who nvnr is on tlw finld." 
"I thought wc played very well. Wn "We can push car.Ii otlwr to !wights on looked very good at limns." said sopho­tlw field that we newr n~ally could gPl at more goalkeeper Cole Straub. "We haw'1 a if we wrrnn't fighting for itlw spot! with young team corning up. and our f'rnshnwn thr. sanw camarac!Prie and tlw same helped out a lot." friendship that. you can push Pach otlwr 
Thr, lone tally for Urn new head coach with." addPd Straub. Chris Apple's team canw on sophomorn The nwn's s1><·r.er team is pn\paring for Justin BatclifTe's goal off a feed from its final presoason turw-up in Fort Way,w, freshman .Justin Dr.tter 21 minutes. 2:{ Incl .. this wr.Pkr.nd at tlw ll'FW SoccPr seconds into the game. Showcase. ThP team takPs on South 
"It was a great feeling scoring a goal. Carolina on Saturday bPfon1 moving on to and it was good to get on the board challenge either St. Louis or Akron on early," said Hatcliffc. "Last year we didn't Sunday. score in our prescason ganw, so at toast "We've been training really hard tlw we got on thr. board and kopt thP last couple of wneks." said Hatdifl't,. ";\II shutout." the playNs arc in top shapP. Wn camP 
Thr Irish kept the game close behind a into prnsr.ason in top shape so now wn'rp strong def'rnsf'. Sophomorr. goal tenders just working on some l<1am aspPcts." 
Greg  Tait  and  
Straub. compnt­ing f'or the start­ Attention SENIORS interested  
ing position, flach  
played a half'. Tait started thn game  in the Rhodes, Marshall, and  
and  made  one  
save before being relievfld by best  Mitchell Scholarshi  s  
friend Straub, who added three  Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will  
more.  
"I thought 1 played well," said  have a final meeting to inform you  
Straub. "I could have had a few  of deadline dates and the  
better clearances but other than that I really  application process on:  
thought the whole  
team played well." The competition  Tuesday, August 29, 2000  
between the two men in goal is one of the intr.rnsting  6:00 p.m.  
aspects of' the team this prns1m­ 101 Law School  
son.  Tait  and  
Straub are room­ ;,'-.t If you are unable to attend this ~eeting, a  
sheet of information may be obtained in  
102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the  
meeting date.  


I & I I •

•••••• ....., 
Wednesday, August 23, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


Wednesday, August 23, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 20 
Ewing trade appears unlikely 
"Good Hiddanr.e." scrcamnd looking for a lucrative contract lhr. Nrw Yori< Post. that has not been forthcoming. 
NEW YOHK 
Looks likn Patrick Ewin).{ is staying with the Knicks. at !Past for the Limo bdng. 
Thn trade SCl'narios involving Ewing shrunk considnrably Tunsday aftpr the DP.troit l'istons pulled out of a four­t<iam dPal that would havf' sent Ewing to Snaltln. 
Now. it's a question of whPthf'r thP Knicks will find anolfwr way to divorcn them­!'rnlves ol' thf' f'rnnchisl' nirner­stonc for tlw past decade and a half. 
Tht-rn werf' rPports that a backup Set1ttlc-N('w York deal would bi~ complPtP.cl Tticsdav, but as thP day ntmo and wnnl, ii became obvious the tradn was simply dead. 
1':xecutiV('S around the lcagun said the Pistons pulled out of thn original f'our-tPam trade because they weren't bcndH­lfag to the samp, dP.grne as tlrn 
Knicks,  Lakers  and  
SuperSonir.s.  or if they were  
even twncfitting at all.  

Seattle would have gotten Ewing --while also completing a siflf' deal for free-agent for­w,.rd Maurice Taylor --Los Angr.les would have gotten Christian Laettnm and Chris Dudl!'Y and thP Knicks would have gotten a pair of former All-Stars and a backup center in Cl!in Bice. Vin 13aker and Travis Knight. 
Detrnil, though, would have walked away with seven mar­ginal players --at least two of whom still hav1• two years left on thnir contracts and thus would hinder the Pistons on the frpc-agcnl market nl'xl sum­mer by remaining on their salary cap. 
It remains pussible that the LakPrs could end up with Lanttncr. The Dallas MaVf•ricks havn ofl'Ncd tho Pistons a package that is believed to include Cndric Ceballos and $3 million. and they woLtld be Pxpcctcd to immcdiat<•ly reship J.,wttner to the Lakcrs for Hice. 
"We made Detroit an olTnr prior to this that we Wl'l'I' surprisPd thr.y walkPd away l'rom,'' Mavericks ownPr l\!ark Cuban said. "Our olTl'r is slill on the tabi<~, but WP hawn't talk!'d lo ll!'troit for SfWNal days." 
Tlw Pistons did managr. to pull ofT a dif'l'Prenl deal Ttwsd ay. st> tHI ing guard 1.indsay lluntr,r to Milwauk1w f'or l'orward Billy Owens. 
c; !' n n r a I man a g n r Jo r, Dumars said thn four-way trade wilh the l.aknrs Knirks and Sonic:s wa~ rwver as c.losn to b1iing compl1•ted as people thought. 
"I hopP that IEwing! does stay. and that he· II be apprnciatnd likP he should b1•," tPamma.te Allan Ilouston said. 
Appn'ciatinn. however, was a scarc11 quantity in sonw sPctors of' NPw York as word of' tlw mammoth trncln that fell apart domi­natnd tlw sports talk sr.Pnn. 
1-:v<>ryorw SePmf'd to hav11 an opinion on th<• dPal. SDnH1 foll it was posiliv1' that tlw Knirks \\'PJ'I' trying to nrnvl' past lhr> disap­pointrmint of' the !'.wing yPars and rid thPmsr.lvPs of a play11r whosn unfulfillPd qunst for a championship pP-rsnni!"if'd thP franchisf' for so long. 

Others qu11stioned how the If' Taylor were to sign with Knicks ever Seattle for expected to one year and 
win a title bv $2.25 mil­
"I hope that [Ewing]

trading thci·r lion, it would lop does stay, and that be exper:Led
two cen­ters whilr, he'll be appreciated that the simultaneous­Sonics would
likP he should be."

ly t· mating havr, a wink­r.ven more of a wink deal to glut at the Allan Houston give Taylor a small forward new, long­
New York Knicks 

and shooting term con-guard posi-tract after tions. One issufl raising red the upcoming season. flags around thf' league was Seattle could have $17 mil­whether Seattle had made lion of salary cap space next some sort of undM-the-table summer. But if Taylor's con­handshake agreement with tract took up the bulk of that David Falk. the agr.nt for Ewing monoy. there wouldn' l be and Tavlor. e~ongh to give Ewing the type 
Ewing is seeking a two-year ol lucrative extension he wants. contract extension that the A Sonics olTicial strnssed that Knirks have balked at giving, the hmm had made no finanr:ial while Taylor went into this promises lo Ewing. Falk did not summpr's free agent markP.t return calls seeking comment. 

Hours7 
Lunch 
Mon-Fri 11am -2pm 
Dinner 
Mon-Thu, Sun 
5pm-9pni 
Fri-Sat 
5pm-9:30pm 

211 0 L 
-+---='--A 
TH A I RESTAURANT C N. MAIN S ~ ST. A 
"The first Thai restaurant in town. We F L 
A L
invite you to try world class 
X

cuisine, Thai cuisine, the delicate art ~<;'\· E 
\\\Gt-­

th~t. des_cend~ from primogenitor. Thai 
':I\\C 

cuisme rs designed to excite your five senses; sweet, sour, salty, spicy, and [nu§natural." 211 N. Main St. 
South Bend, IN
Now Hiring 46601 

Tickets available at the 
Morris 
Box 
Office and selected 

Majerek's 
Hallmark 
locations. ******* 
TICKETS: 
$25.50 
& $20.50 ******* Charge 
by phone 
at 235-9190 
or 
1-800­
537-6415 
,_'i,,<Y-1~ 1or tic1<.,~, 

Available on the internet 
-,;:a

at WWW.tickets.com ' $Jt"f• 
11ports • 1nl1rlainm1nl • travel 

Morris Performing Arts Center 
S1ar1s TONIGHT 
Students ofall denominations are invited to join us for a power halfhour of prayer, praise and 
•

music. 
lnte 

Ewery Wednesday 10pm 
Walsh Chapel 
For more info, 
call Frank or Karen@ 1-5242 

0MPUS 
tv11NISTRY 
'I 
I L__ 
Wednesday, August 23, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

ELC 
E BACK 
elct~~ 0f 2001 f 
Join us THURSDAY for Heartland's 
SG111G~tgr I\ieK_-0 fc;trty 
Then picture yourself here WGr.!J Thursday. 
You never know what will develop when 1200 members of the class of 2001 mix it up. 
-l 
MEETING WEEKLY

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 23, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
No. 2 ranked team returns from summer trip to Brazil 
By KFVIN BFRC:HOlJ Sport, Wrirc, 
At'lPr linishing a dost> SP<'ond in Lhf' r a,." f'o r Ia s l vf' a r · s national championship. lhP N1)trP llanw wonwn·s so1'('1'r tnam has a !wad start in this Vl'ar's clrnsP f'or Llw Lilli•. 
• Taking advantagP of an NCAA rull' allowing l1•ams lo travd inti>rnationally during th<' snmmPr 0111•p PVPry f'nur y1•ars, llw NotrP Damn wonwn trPkk1•d soulh Lo llrnzil !'or ·10 days in ,\ugu.st. Tlw sumnwr Pxcursion, a rirst !'or th,, Irish p mgram. prov id Pd v a Iu a bl,, training tinw and IP,lVl'S tlu~ Irish brimming with rnnfidl'tH'n as t!wy pri>par1• to r1•join tlw 1:harnpionship hunt. 
Af'tPr losing six sPniors to graduation. lwad roach Handy Waldrum was anxious to SP!' how his highly rat,·d f'n•shrn<'ll rl'cruili11g rlass would n•spond to Urn prPssun•s of b1•inl-{ askPd to contributl' on u n:gular basis. Tlw trip to Brazil alkvi­alPd sonw ot' his l'Pars. 
"(;oing into tllf' trip I ft'lt likP it was important to g<'L tlw f'rrshmrn inlPgratPd into our program." \Valdrum said. "I was pn\tty happy with the w,ly most of tlwrn rnnw in. Tlw trip was b<'nPlkial in that spnsP." 
Whilt• \Naldrum strPss1•d thl' imp11rL1nrP of' \\·orking thP !'rl'shnwn into Llw rt'g'tilar rota­tion, lw ,..-as qui(·k ui' add that thn trip bnnnfitl'd rnturning playPrs as wPll. 
"WP w1•rp ablP lo g'PI a fop] !'or whirh rPturning rPsPrVPS l'rom last VPar would lw ablP to contribult: and Jill LhP void left by g 1"1LCl u ati o n . .. h f' s a id . "Owrall I'm pl('HSPd with our n11lin• squad." 
SPnior f'aptain KPrri BakkPr 

bPliPVPs tlw [Pam nm li\•p up lo tlw lofty standards St'l by past squads. 
"You cari't rt>plarP all of tlw ta!Pnl WP lost." Bakhr said. "But you l'an rPplPnish and I think WP have a good l'rPshmen class that ran lwlp us doing that. Th1\y hav<' tlw spnt>d and athlf'l:icism wn nPPd." 
WhilP in Brazil. Waldrurn dividPd thP squad into two t1~ams. buth or whirh wmpPLPd against top Brazilian rlub lPams l'onsisting ol' play1irs f'rom thP national tPam. The top-notrh rompPlition will hPlp Llw Irish as th1•y prc•p for !Pagu<' play. 
"Tfw ('ompPtition was <'X<'Pl­ll'nl." Waldrum 110tPd. "WN<' it not for lhl' trip. w,, wou Id bP playing our first ganw this WP1•kPnd. '\Jow w1• 0 rt' a bit morP lill<' tu1wd and n·ady to play f'or 
l'l'itl." 
Tlw ti·nm m.tdl' surl' to !ind a 

balitnrr lwtwl'i'n pral'ti('ing 
and hm'ing fun. 
"IL was a gn•at 1•xpPriPnrP," slw said. "\Vn bPggPd Hancly to takP us s11n1Pwlwrl' out ol' !Im countrv. and Brn1il WiLS a grPat pl.ire' to go b1•1·ausP tlwy just loVI' sort'!'!" so 111lll'h Lht>l'f'... 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer Anne Makinen (No. 8) tries to keep the ball from a defender in a game during the 1999 season. Makinen is one of the key veter­ans on this year's Irish squad, which is ranked second in the nation behind North Carolina. 

... just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial 
institution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience, 
competitive products and pricing, and a level of service 
second to none. 

Convenience • With over 40 banking centers and ATMs in the area, 1st Source is everywhere you might be. Visit our full-service office in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's, complete with ATM, or use our ATM in the Hesburgh Library. 
Internet Banking • With 1st Source Bank's on-line banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com, you can check your balances, transfer money between accounts, and even pay bills. 
Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from home7 1st Source can make getting money from home fast and easy by arranging to have the money 
transfered to you electronically. 
When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. So save your prayers for a real crisis -like finaIsI 
University Laundry 
l 813 South Rend Ave. at Campus Shops 

r---------------------, 
:50% off Drop-Off Serivce: 
: 24 Tans for $40 ! 
, Bring This Coupon 1 : Expires 9/15/00 j
L---------------------J 
Saint Mary's Banking Center• 235-2019 M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 
Wednesday, August 23, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 

Heil01an 
continued from page 28 
lhe major far.tors in his deci­sion was an approximatP-ly $500,000 discrepancy in Heilman's proposed signing bon us -t h·e Twins were willing io pay near $900.000. but Heilman was holding out for about $1.4 mi.Ilion. 
"It was fairly significant," said Heilman of the signing bonus discrepancy. '"It wasn't a few dollars and cents -it was a lot more than that." 
Heilman was the Twins' second pick behind fellow right-handed slinger Adam Johnston, who was a first­round pick. 
'.\1innesota drafted Heilman in the "sandwich" round, a round designed to compensate teams which have lost frep, agent to another team. In Minnesota's case, Heilman was to serve as compensa­tion for the Twins' loss of free agent Mike Trombley. 
"This derision-making proeess for Aaron and his family has probably been one of the more difficult things they've had to go through -and this decision was made entirely by Aaron," said Mainieri. "He a s k e d [pitching 

"J love this guy to death
coach! Brian back in it fO'Connor] and really want what's n e x t and I for year."
best for him. If he had 
advice over Heilman
signed, I would have
the course will use of the sum­been the first guy in line his final mer ... but season at
to give him a hug and 
in no way N o t r e
send him on his way. " 
did we try to Dame to 
influence brush up Senior pitcher Aaron Heilman will have one more year donning an Irish uniform after turning him one way Paul Mainieri on his down a contract with the Minnesota Twins in favor of staying at Notre Dame. or the other. current
head baseball coach 

T-Shirt Design Contest 
For the 2001 Notre Dame 
vs. Texas A&M Game 
September 29, 2001 in College Station, Texas 
•Designs 
may NOT be derogatory toward Texas A&M 

• 
Designs may be for blue, gold. or green shirts 

• 
Include your name. address, and phone number with 


f1Pcirm 
../ 

to go higher in the draft, but after lackluster outings in two of his three final perfor­mances against Rutgers and Pittsburgh, Heilman went ­nearly 20 picks lower than expected. 
"Certainly the first day after I was drafted J was dis­appointed that I didn't go higher," said Heilman. "But I 1novcd on from that and accepted that's where I was and tried to go through the m~gotiations." 
The negotiations proved unsucr,essful and after a last ditch effort to reach an agreement with the Twins Monday night. Heilman decided to remain at Notre Dame. 
"There were several issues at hand and we didn't quite see eye to eye," said Heilman. "It just got to the point where we agreed to disagree. One of the major factors was the signing bonus,O 
lleilman's opportunity to join the Major League was not his first. nor if all goes well, will. it be bis last chance. 
"This was not a once in a lifetime opportunity for Aaron," said Mainieri. "He had the opportunity coming out of high school to be drafted bv the New York Yankees a;d decided to not sign then and we obviously 
assume 
he'll be 
'.\i ow that he's back at school, obvi­ously we 're ecstatic and looking forward to what the 2001 season will bring. 
"I love this guy to death and really want what's best for him," Mainieri contin­ued. "If he had signed, I would have been the first guy in line to give him a hug and send him on his way. " 
After a successful college career with a 28-7 record amassed over three seasons, analysts expected the three­time All American selection repertoire 
of three 
pitches ­the fast ball, slider and change-up, while possibly adding a fourth pitch to his arsenal. 
So for now, the only busi­ness Heilman will be con­centrating on will be in his MIS classes. 
"I never thought I'd be announcing to the. world that l 'm going to class," joked Heilman. 
But after a summer of deliberation. he knows that's just where he belongs. 

$200 Prize for Winning Entry Deadline: September 
Submit entries to:
8, 2000 
ndam2001@att.net 
5:00pm 
Or 
ND Club of Houston 
Clo Jackie Herzfeld 
2110 Palm Castle Dr. 
League City, TX 
77573 



page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 23, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Smith takes helm of Belles' basketball 
By KATIE McVOY 
Assis1.1111 Sporrs Ed,ror 
Aftnr four consm:utivr losing sr~a­sons and a 1999-2000 rnr.ord of 4-221 thP Saint Mary's basketball team is rnady l'or thn bnginning of a new nra. Tho bPginning of 
that 1ira is now with tlw rncent arrival of hr.ad womnn's basknt­ball coach and sports informa­tion din·ctor. Suzannn Smith. 
Smith. who 


was hirrd .July 1. Smith com rs to S,Lin t Marv's from Dnl',ttrw Univrrsity, where she was thn graduate assistant coach for bas­htbal I and vollevball. While at I>el'auw. thr baskrtball team had a two war rPcord of 42-10, wen• back to bitrk ronforcncr rhampions, and. in 191)9, advanrPd to thr Swert Sixtn,111 of tlw NCAA Tournamnnt. 
"(Smithj brings Division I nxprri­Pncr. to thP tablr," athl1)tic director Lynn Karhmarik said. "Sim brings a wnalth ol' exprrirnc:e and knowledge to this program." 
During tlw baskPtball program's history. Saint Mary's has 11t!ver had a l'ull tinrn rnach. Smith. who will be working full time. will be lookPd to as !Im beginning of change. 
"Then• is a long history of whnrn this program has bnPn,'' Kachmarik said. "lt's going to takfl some time to changn that, but hiring a full time coach is tlw first step." 
Smith knows that historv and the stPps slw will havn to take ·to change the futun•. 
"This yPar my main goal is to get confidPncP bark and get the women having fun," she said. 
Smith is looking forward to hrr lirst year with llw Bellns. Aftnr acting as director of' baskntball sport<; camp at the rnlleg1, this summer and working with scvrral of Urn returning mcm­b<,rs of the basketball team, she has gotten a taste of what her job will be like. 
"I lovf1 it," sh1: said. "I really like the sP.nsn of r.ommunity h1:re. EvC1ryorrn I met has been wondm·ful." 
In addition to choosing a rostor, running prartir.cs1 and rcr.ruiting for 
1 the B1\llcs. Smith will be acting as sports information director for all Saint Mary's athlntics. As such she wiU bP. the hub of' all publicity for Saint Mary's varsity tmtms. ''l'm n•ally looking forward to more media coverago this year," Kachmarik said. Smith rr.ceivP-d a Bachelor of Science degree in business at the University of Evansville, and recently completed her master's degree in lfor,n~at.ion and Sports Management at Indiana State University. Smith will not be the only new face on the coaching staff this season. Joining her is assistant coach Sherry Donnrlly. Donnelly. who has sp.-nt thf' last two yPars volunteering as girls' basketball coa.d1 at Christ the King in South BPnd. had success as a player lrnrself'. Shr recently returned to her rr.sidence in Mishawaka after participating in a WNB/\ tryout with the Orlando Mirnde. "She brings maturity. humor and exp1irtise as a player and a coach," Kachmarik said. Donnelly join<~d Smith this summer working at thr basketball sports camp and also coaclrnd at a basket­ball camp at Bethel Collrge. Donnelly, who is a part timr coach. is beginning a catrring business called Planlt in South !fond. The basketball team will begin ofli­cial practices on October 15 in prepa­ration for iL-; first game at Wellesley. Kar.hmarik is looking for the team of' Smith and Donnelly to make a big difference this s1mson. "This year. the women on this team am going to get what they deserve," Kachmarik said. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Lone senior Paulen to 
replace 1999 tri-captains 
•By SARAH RYKOWSKI Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's soccer is in full swing now 
that everyone is on campus, ready to 
meet the goals set just a week ago when 
practice began. 
"Division III soccer offers women an 
ideal environment to participate in highly 
competitive and fulfilling.athletic and 
academic programs," Jason Milligan. soc­
ond-year head coach for the Belles. said. 
"We are r,ommitted to the development ol' 
student athletes who accept nothing but 
the best and always st.rive for improvr­
ment." 

The leadership of the team falls on senior Laura Paulen's shoulders. Thfl lone senior, Paulen needs to fill the shoes of last season's senior tri-captains: lead­ing scorer and Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association first-teamer Katy Barger. defensive leader Hadrnl Eggc>r and Erin McCabe. 
Paulen will depend upon juniors Tia Kapphahn. Adrian Kirby. Jessir,a Klink. Katy Hobinson and Kristen Priganc to step up and lend their strong leadership skills to the team. Kapphahn, Kirby. Klink and Robinson were mainstays on the 1999 squad. Klink and Hobinson we.re named Honorable Mention all-Ml/\/\ in 1998. Priganc returns to the team for 2000 after missing a season studying in Home. 
Sophomorns Shawna Jianonni. Heather Muth and Lynn Taylor also return. bring­ing a core of solid play to the team. Jiannoni was one of the third-highest sco1·ers for the Belles· 1999 squad, finish­ing with three goals and two assists in 13 games. Muth. was named to the MIAA's Honorable Mention list for her freshman season. with two goals and two assisLi:;. 
"Heather Muth will be the next star at !Saint Mary's College]," Milligan said. "She has a wondrrful attitude and will achieve a great deal while she is here." 
13ut it is the freshmen Milligan hopes will cement the team·s base of skill and determination to build a powerhouse in the M!AA. Th11 returning members of the team echo thb philosophy. 
"We're excited because Wf' have fresh­men coming in with good tal!\nt," Paul,m said. "Wn're counting on them to st1ip up and nll the spac:os that we have. With the returning players and tlrn f'reshrnon com­ing ir1:_ wr hav1: a solid basn to build from there. 
\1uth said the f'reshrnnn alrnady fit in on thn team. 
"Tlwy arc l1tting right into tlw lrr,m." Muth said. "They filkd all the gaps t.hal wr. have." 
According to Taylor. it is not. only Lim skill but also the individuality of Pa('h f'reshman that is important. 
"Tlwy bring not only t.hl\ir skill but their 
personality to the team,'' Taylor said. 
So while Barger. Eggnr. McCab!~. and the rl'st of' the team that did not rP.turn will bn sorely missed. the remaining play­ers and their nnw tearnmatns am f'ully prcparnd to make tlrn 2000 season suc­cr.ssl'ul. 
"We're really excited about this year." Muth said. 
Milligan's nxpanded efforts to rPcruit nationally has brought freshmrn from Pennsylvania. Min1rnsota, Trxas, Nrw York, Michigan. Florida and Alabama. 
Milligan hopes new player Alissa Brasseur, a South Bond resident. will contributn right away. Pressun~ also falls on Laura Mntzgnr. from Bemus Point. 
N.Y. Metzgnr. also a l'rnshman. must fill thn goalkeeping vacancy lrf't by last year's nr.tminder. Brie C1!rsc·hick. 
Milligan is confident in his tPam's abili­ty to nrnr.t their goals for this season. 
"ThP majority of our tnam playnd for Division I and Division ll clubs from all ov11r thn U.S.. and about half have nxpnri­nnce at the stat.o and rPgional levels ol' the Olympic Dovelopmnnt Team," Milligan said. "Watrh thesn women in action and you will understand that this is a dynamic group of women whose 1mthu­siasm is unmatrhnd." 
On these women he hopes to build a team that will be even more successful than last year's 9-h-2 rncord and fifth place linish in Urn MIA/\. 
"/\ positive attitude. diligent work ethic and an unyielding desire to bP successful are the cornerstones that will ensurn a bright future for Saint Mary's Collrge soc­cer," Milligan said. 
FITNESS 
FALL SCHEDULE 2000 
RSRC Activit)'. RQQm 1 1 12:15-12:45 Cardio Box (ends 12/20) MW/F $37 2 4:10-5:10 Cardio Box M/W/F $38 3 5:20-6:35 Power Step n'Pump M/W $34 4 8:30-9:30pm Cardio Box M/W $27 5 12:15-12:45 Flex n'Tone (ends 12/21) TfTh $24 6 4:15-5:15 Step II T/Th $26 7 5:30-6:30 Cardio Box T/Th $26 8 4:15-5:30 Step II n'Sculpt Su $14 9 5:40-6:00 All Abs Su $10 
mmc A,!;tivit)'. 8,QQm :z. 10 4:15-5:15 Step II M/W $27 11 5:25-6:10 Lo Impact M/W $27 12 7:00-8:lSam Step II n'Sculpt TfTh $34 13 4:15-5:15 Cardio Sculpt T/Th $26 14 5:25-6:10 Flex n'Tone T/Th $26 15 4:45-5:15 Arms n'Abs Su $10 
B.QCK~f CLASSES R22m 301 16 5:30-6:30 Hi Int. HipHop (ends 10/ll)M/W $14 17 5:20-6:20 Step I T/Th $26 AQ~ATK ~LASSJ;;;S R2lfs A!luatic Center 18 12:15-12:45 Aquacise (ends 12/20) M/W/F $37 19 7:00-8:00pm Aquacise TfTh $26 Kt-!QCKQ!.[T WQRKO:UI 20 7:00-8:lSpm Joyce Center (ends 10/12)T/Th $20 INSTB,UCTQR TRAINI~(i 21 6:45-8:lSpm RSRC 9/11-11/20 M $25 
REGISTRATION Thursday, August 24, 7:30am, RSRC. Registration takes place throughout the semester. Schedule is subject to change. Minimum of 14 class registrants. Classes begin the week ofAugust 28 and unless noted, end the week of Dec. 4. Call 1-6100 with questions. 
Find the lOWEST price with1ne clii:kl 
Compare prices at dozens of stores including... 
Amazon 
buy.com 
Barnes & Noble eCampus Powell's 
Borders 


www. be stb oo kb uys.co m 
We-dnesday, August 23, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
Insight 
continued from page 28 
his loyalty'! 
Som<' of lhe questionprs wrrP th<' sam<' people who wi~rc closP to having Doherty saint11d t'nr leading their bnlovrd Irish to upsrt vic'.(orics ovPr Ohio Stat(i. Con1rnr.tirut and St. John's. for r.rying (M 1warly nying) afi<'r ev1,ry win and l'nr playing in Bookstore Hashtball. Tlwv wnni('d him sainlrd !'or silting in Lhn stu­dPnl snction ut a l'ootbrtll gamr and for railing lhe "watcrboy" on thc1 phonl' repeatedly after tlw infamous inr.idcnt in thf' game againsl Syracusn. 
;\n<l abovp all. for sc•cming to g(~nuinely care about the fans. 
Cucss what'? 
Dohcrty's not a saint.. And !,p's not BP1wdict Arnold rnin­rnrnated. <'ilhor. 
lie also didn't change as a 1wrson f'rom July IO to July l 1. 
The only thing that changed was our pnrccption of him. 
Just likn his prednrnssors. DohPrly is a product of our fascination with labeling ath­lPtes and coaches as "good guys" or "bad guys" wh<'n, in rnality, w<' ll(!ver really know. BccausP pPoplc usually only rPvcal a part of their livPs and lwcause wn tP_nd to look at fWents or situations, rather than thi' whole person. it's 1warly impossibln to accurate­ly portray anyone. !1it alone a Wf'll-known publir· rigurP. 
Considl'r Phelps and MacL<'od. 
r\lmost as soon as thn sciarch for a 1ww coach 'bp,gan. Phelps p!PadPd tlw University to hirP within the l\otre Dame "fami­lv". lie <'V!'ll offernd to rPturn t'o lead the Irish. nint-years 
after retiring as the win­ningest basketball coach in Notre~ Dame history. 
This was the same Phelps who. on numerous occasions, referred to roaching as a grind and who seemed very <·ontl>nt sitting in thf' ESP!\( studios and living a more nor­mal lifestylr.. 
And whoso wife, Teresa. wrote an autobiugraphy, enti­tled "The Coarh's WifP". detailing her husband's last few years hero as anything but idPal. Ono passage quotes Notrn Dame l'ormer athletic dirertor Dirk Hosenthal as saying he would "schedule Digger out or a job" with a 1990-1991 campaign featur­ing only 12 homn ganrns. 
At his farnwPll press confl'r­cnce, Phelps denied any dis­cord with Rosenthal. But in rPsponsc to Oiggr.r's "resigna­li on". Rosenthal penned a four-linr stafoment. Four lines for a 20-year veteran coach. tho most successful coach in Irish historv. 
MacLeod. the coach just prior to Doherty, suddenly received some covC'rago as well l'ollowing Doherty's dPparture. On July 18. MacLr.od's son. Matt, a former Notre Dame walk-on. wrote a lettr.r to the South Bend Tribune. 
"Please give credit where 
credit  is  due,"  wrote  the  
younger Mar.Leod.  
"John  Mad.eod  was  the  

individual who turned around thr. program. Ask any of his former players." 
That testimonial was fol­lowf'd by another letter, pub­lished in the Julv 23 edition -of The Chicago Tribune, writtnn by former MacLeod assistan( Parkf'I' Laketa. 
"John MacLeod is a stand­up, loyal guy," 1.aketa wrote. "Notrn Dame didn't know how 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Featuring the best theological & philosophical works. irtglff even'th al 
so-6.?*d ou'-1,e
Go'!'"esS sa 
Final day: Friday, September 1 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 
237 N. Michigan St. {at LaSalle), downtown So. Bend Open 10-5 Mon/Wed/Fri, and 11-6 Tues/Thurs 
.........-............................. 
•
: -Bl1'HLON
~ if:,~~ "' 
: -~-• •.-. .rSATURDAY, AUGUST 26 
• 
-·YI : 
~b ~ 
i11{) : 

•
•• I 0:30AM AT ST. JOE BEACH li (1. :• 
• 1/2 MILE SWIM • & •
• •
• 2MILERUN • REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT •
• RECSPORTS ARSl1Y TI.AM & INDIVIDUAL 
ON· ARSI TEAM & INDIVIDUAL 
Ree.~ 
www.nd.edu/~recsport 

-
.. 
LIZ LANG/The Observer Former head basketball coach Matt Doherty spent more than a few minutes in deep thought while making the decision to leave Notre Dame for his alma mater North Carolina in July. He 
was replaced by former Delaware head coach Mike Brey. 
good they had it." when Macleod "resigned" last Where were these letters March? I don't ,recall many 
1, ,; , •· 11eNwee• ••·
At$tJ 

~ HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
For Monday'sTraining Program by Licensed Professionals Call for information 
289-5080 
•
Gourmet Coffees & Teas 

•
Friendly People 

•
Veggie Entrees 

•Great 
Food •Spacious 



Now 
ACCEPTING APPL! CATIONS 
Ill~~ Snu111 U11111! \11•111111 11'111111•rnl Eddy &So.111'1111 .\111.l Sunth !11•1111. lndlilPil llilili !~l!l11Xi-fi!lli6 


niollfiiictgu1f81s coffee house 
sad faces or public outcry when MacLeod left after an 
eight-year tenure marred in mediocrity. 
Yet. MacLeod is cur­rently credited by many for recruiting all the core players fo.r last year's 22-15 team, the same Macleod wh/) was ridiculed for having sev­eral players transfer in his eight years in South Bend. 
Now, here comes Brey. I've read his biography on the Internet. 
He played for OeMatha High School. Northwestern Louisiana University and George Washington University. 
Arter graduating from GW in 1982. he was an assistant at high school basketball legend OeMatha for five years before spending the next eight seasons at Duke as an assistant to Mike Krzyzewski. lie led Delaware to two NCAA appearances and a 99-52 record in five years as head coach. 
According to th<' University of Notre Dame's sports informa­tion website. "lie (Brey) also has been active in the Coaches vs. Cancer program, helping make Delaware one or the top fund-raising schools in the country through that program." 
The 41-year old Brey and his wife, Tish, have two r.hildren, Kyle and Callie. 
What docs all this moan? We sh.ould know more in a few months. Or at least we can hope. 
·­

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 23, 2000 
=====-=--=--=--=-----=--=-=--=---=--=-::...=..:=-=============================================================-=========================:--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-==-=--=-=-==--=-=-=-=-==­
FOOTBALL 
Irish look for new football heroes in freshmen athletes 
ByTIM CASEY 
A.,si,1.111 rSports Fdiror 
Thn IX fn,slJnwn football µlay­Prs arrivnd for thPir lirst prac­licc 011 t\u~ust 7. all with impn~ssivP rPsunws and high Pxpnrtations 
Within a f1,w days, tlwy rnal­izPd llw dil'lkult transition from high sdwol hero lo Notre llanw nnwconwr 
"That's natural." said coach Bob Davit> of the f'rt,shnwn. who arn not 1tl lowPd to spPak with Lhc media until afti-r tlw Sept. 2 opnning ganw against Tnxas .'\&M. "Wt> just tP!I thPm to tak0. it orw day at a tinw." 
For l>nvil'. in th1• fourth vcar of his highly-publiciz1'<l (an~! rrili­('al} lPnurP, gPtling tha.l clic:ht' nwssagP across to 1.lw Cla:,;s of 
"r,m really see the d(f­
~004. may srPm prnssure. likn tlw !Past of' ference in speed and Therl''s no his worriPs. lh1l nePd to rush
intn,sity (from h(qh 
it,"

hP rl'mains 
school to college}." II o Iida y.
f'ocusPd on maintaining th1• ratl'd the 48th r on fi d n n 1· P of' best high
Grant Irons 
imprnssionabln school player
senior captain
l'reshn1<'n. 
lnrludrd in tlw class arP thnw quarterbacks -Carlyle lllllidav, Malt l.oVpcc·hio and .lan~d (:lark -who an, compet­ing with junior starlrr i\rnaz Battle' and sophomorn Cary (;11dsny for playing timn. 
In prPparation for thr. college gamP, DaviP sPnl tlw 111\w quar­tl'r!mcks play books and vidro­tap<\S during tlw :,;ummnr. But. complying with NCAA rules. the coacl111s could not spend rxtrn­siv1• timt\ tPaching thrm. WhPn tlw trio ca nw h nn~. th at all changnd. 
Battli, and Godsey havH hnlpl'd makP the transition fHtsirr, counsPling thP l'rPshml'n on lhP physirnl and mental aspects of tlrn position whiln· the coaching staff can now work with them in pl'rSOll. 
"Tl11~r(1's a lot to IPa.rn ­S('hf'Tl1f'S, r<mding drfonses and pirking up blitzes."Codsey said. "It'll take tinrn." 
l.t~ss than two we<,ks into prnc­ticr., thn results arr. unclear. On Wcdnr.sday, lloliday, LoVccchio and Clark each took snaps for thi> first timl' against thl' dPfonsr.. ·,\s of now. Davie said th11 freshrnr.n ar<: brhind the upporclassmcn on the drpth ('hart. Tht' thrt-\P l'rnshmt'll may r.v1'11 be groupPd togr.thf'r !'or the> season instead of naming a sin­giP third qunrtcrback. 
..W11 want to br. fair to th!'m," DaviP said. "\Vp want to give 
them enough 
rnps under 
by thr. Chic.ago 
Sun-Times last 

season, is alrPady popular among Irish fans. On FPb. 2. the lirst ol1kial signing day. lloliday chose Notre Danw over Nebraska, denying thr Cornhuskers another top rrcruit and upgrading an alrnady solid Irish quarterback class. As a senior at Hoosevnlt lligh School in San Antonio. lloliday completed 48 of 105 passes for 719 yards and rushed for 87<> yards and 13 touch­downs on the ground. 
l.oVccchio verbally committed to the Irish after attr.nding the summer football camp in 1999. Partly dur. to his early commit-

BLACK BELT INSTRUCTORS NEEDED! 
Exciting children's self-defense pro­gram will be starting soon in South Bend. W1f; are looking for mature, responsible1instructors (all styles wel­come) to teach these classes once a week. Call Master Rick Tague at 765-423-4821. Proud Sponsor of Superfoot 2001 Summer Camp! 

THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE 
Home Delivered, On or Ott Campus For Only: 
$2.25 Per Week! 
FOR 7 DAY DEUVERY 
Y(Q)UJ §AVJE ®®% 
SEE OUR SALES REP AT: 
North & South Dining Halls 
AUGUST2I THROUGH28 
FROM 
7:00 TO 8:00 
mcnl. Lo\lP,cchio did not gain the 
attention from the rncruiting 
analysts that Clark and Iloliday 
received ·but still was named an 
honnrabli, mention US,\ Today 
t\11-1\mcrican. t\ four-year lctt11r 
winrwr at Bergen Catholic· in 
New Jersr.y, Lovecchio complr.t­
ed nf'arly 60% of his passes for 
1503 yards as a senior. 

Clark. a 6-foot-4 220-lb. l'resh­men from Sarasota. Fla. also attended the 1999 sumnrnr camp. lie started f'nr Cardinal Mooney I(igh School since the _sevPnth gamr. of his freshman Sl'ason and was named first­team all-state last season. Clark finishf'd his high school carerr accounting for over 5000 yards in total olfonsc, including 211.1 
as a s1mior. 

"I don't think l'vn sN•n a morP 
talentrd group from top to bot­
tom," Davie said. ··wc1 have it 
stork11d for quitP awhiln." 

Davir's rnthusiasrn is not lim­
ited lo Lhe quarterback trio. 
OthPr freshmen he mnntionrd 
on Wednesday as being 
"maturn" were tight end Billy 
Palnrnr. defensivl' backs Vontez 
Duff and Preston Jackson and 
drop linrbacker Mike Goolsby. 

"He's a coach's dream,"said 
Davie of Goolsby. "Football is 
very important to him. lle'Il be 
playing in games this year." 

And for all freshmen, whethPr 
or not they play this season, 
Davie has instituted a mentor 
program. Each freshman has a 
"Big Brother."an upprrclassman 
who helps them adjust to college 
life. on and off the field. 

"You rnallv sne the differnnce 
in speed and· intensity (from high 
school to college)," said Grant 
Irons. a senior captain. who·s a 
"Big Brother" to wide receiver 
Omar Jenkins. "But it's all part 
of the process. They've all 
approached it rnal well." 


LIZ LANGfThe Observer Members of the 2000 Notre Dame football squad are stretch­ing into shape for the season, which kicks off Sept. 2 against Texas A & M. This year's Fighting Irish team includes 18 fresh­men, who are busy learning the plays and pressures of a Division I football school. 
~~\ Op~ 
I

0~ 
~,• 
4 't) 
KJ:; 

~ 
0

0 
Wednesday, August 23rd 9 pm to 2 am 
1/2 MEMBERSHIP THROUGH AUGUST 


Wednesday, August 23, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
--------------------------------------------~---------------------~------­
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
THE NUCLEAR CRUISE MtSSI\.E LOCk'S ON To 1TS T1'RGET! 
...,,____......) 
~ 

E. YOU HAVEN'T 
THE l'IUCLEAR CIZU\S£ J'ASolll, t TOL.0 M1SS1L£ STREAICS THE YOU WHAT WOULD UP THE STAIRS! NUCLEAR HAPPEN IF YOU 
CRUISE CAME 1111 MY
\ 
MtSSII.E -RooM AGAIN. 
)J I 
"'
«¾) 
I.: 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
l ALWAYS UIIIOERE.STIMATE THE STRENGTH OF CONVEt{TloNAL ARMS. 
( 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

J 

I love the first day of class. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Did in 69 Nash of note 1 List ender 38 Arousing 10 Place for 5 Most populous 39 Actor Guinness 
embroidery scissors
member oHhe 41 Burdens British 43 "Could be 71 Polo need Commonwealth better" 12Sympathy 
10 Sneakers brand 44 Knock down 
73 Bruce or Laura 14 Part of the Hindu 46 March org. trinity 48 Led DOWN
15 Booze 49 Cheerful 16 Door sign composer? 
1 Massachusetts 17 Leisurely lyricist? 52 Back at sea 
quartet ...!tPlayground cry 53 Kind of tax 2 Type squiggle20 Teacher 54 La Scala offering 
3 To have, in Le 21 Place for a nap . 
Havre

23 Mischief-maker 58 ~;toretowelmg 4 Permitted
24 Intravenous 60 Hermit's home s Words said with 
injection 62 Movie promo a nod
25 Mouths 27Center 64 Graph line 6 More restricted 
29 Side view of a 66 Assault on a 7Dullbrown composer? lyricist? 8 Polar buildup 34 Coal carrier &a See 
9 Prefix with nautical 10--Gardens, ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE N.Y. 
--.-0--.--r-A-. 11 Show participant 
5 
Puzzle by A.la11 A.rbesleld

12Carpe-­W E 5 (seize the day) 34 Muslim journey 55 Tickle pink 61 "Look out ..." 
N I T 13 Measure 35 Spread out on 56 Come again 63 Go on and on T H R 
E 18 Wheels for big the dining table 
57 Actor Alan 65 Hardly a neatwheels 36 Reason for 58 Stinger houseP O N 22 Norse hammer 

some hisses 0 N E thrower 59 Northern 67 Vitamin info, in 
40 Young rhino 

SCA major-leaguer brief HE 0 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: so Dark time, 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). maybe 
Annual subscriptions are available tor the 51 Treated best of Sunday crosswords from the last maliciously 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in tho Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City _______State ___Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1999 
-..... 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON nns done. The frustration will be directly DAY: Keith Richards, Steven Spiel­linked to those who promised to berg, Ramsey Clark, Roger Smith, help you today. Don't worry so Kiefer Sutherland much. You need to relax and enjoy 
Happy Birthday: Brace yourself yourself more. 000 as you move into a fast-paced period LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Chil­that promises to bring you all the dren may limit you if you let them. rewards you've been searching for. You must find a means to follow You will know what you want and your dreams and take care of the how to get it. Nothing will stand in needs of others at the same time. your way as the year unfolds. You Make this day special for the whole will show your true colors and there­family.000 fore get a favorable response from SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): those you deal with. Your numbers: Don't be discouraged if your mate 3, 18, 25, 31, 36, 40 isn't in a great mood today. It is best 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your to spend time enjoying relatives and day will not go according to plan. Be children. You have a lot to offer, but prepared to make last-minute adjust­you can't always be everything for ments. Getting together with others everyone. 000 willbe entertaining. Travel should be SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. on your mind ifnot on your agenda. 21): Frustration will result if you 000 aren't prepared to let situations 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If unfold at their own pace. You can you overspent during the last quar­count on opposition Irom relatives ter of the year, you will be worrying who have never favored your instead of enjoying yourself. It actions. 00000 would be best to do thlngs that won't CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): cost you too much today. 000 You should spend some time with 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 'lrav­children. Family members will be el is apparent Get involved in family demanding and somewhat unrea­activities, but don't forget to pay spe­sonable. You will probably get cial attention to your lover. Your caught in the middle of an argument charm will attract a lot of attention. ifyou aren't careful. 00 0000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be emotional. Don't let Don't take on more than you can other people hold you back. It's time handle. Fatigue will set in and ruin to enjoy the company of those you your day. Ask for help if you need it. don't get to spend much time with. After all, you don't have to take care Put any problems you have on the of everything and everyone. It's time back burner for the time being. you enjoyed yourself as well. 00 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This stabilize your relationships if you will not be the easiest day for you. treat your mate with special care. Financial limitations will be upset­You need to spend some time togeth­ting. You : ust not put such an er. A trip would be a great way to emphasis or, how much you spend rekindle your love. 00000 but instead on how much you do for 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept-22): You others.000 will find it difficult to get things 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, giving and totally into helping others. You must learn to protect yourself from those too willing to take advantage of your kindness and generosity. Once you learn to give wisely to others, you will find your own success. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 
C 1999 Universal Prt!ss Syndicate 

Summer stretch 

'l'l1e ftrsr home.football game for lhe Fighting Irish is just. around the comer, and the Irish are crying to work their way into prime form.
PORTS 
page 26 



BASEBALL 
Heilman turns do-wn T-wins for senior year -with Irish 
By KERRY SMITH Spom Editor 
With his d0.cision to rntu rn to Notrn Damn for his sPnior year instnad of sign­ing with tlrn Minnosota Twins TuPsday. right-handnd pitcher ;\aron llnilman probably lnarrrnd morn about businoss than ho did in his thro!' years as a husi­1rnss major. 
Th0. sonior Managonwnl Information Systems (MIS) and Philosophy major IMtrned that tho ganrn lw grnw up playing as a child is a business just lik0. any oth!'r prof() s s ion . And it turn!' cl o ll t to h" a S!i00.000 lnsson. 
llnilman. tho right-hand<'CJ pitching aw l'rom Logansport, Indiana, was thl' :nst playn sclcctPd in tho 2000 Major LPaguc Basoball First-Year Draft by the Min1rnsota Twins, but nl!\c:t.nd to void tlw Twins' rights to sign him by attnnding classes at Notrn Danw Tunsdav. 
"It's bonn a long sumnwr." s·aid IIPilman against tlw backdrop of !irk Stadium's indoor practicn facility. "I gavn it a lot of thought and talknd.it over with ,ny family and came to till' dnrision that coming hack to school was going to lw tlw bPst dncision for mP. IL was a vnry di!Tirult decision to makP but its grnat to lw bark on campus and I'm rPally looking forward to tlrn 2001 snason." 
In bntwnPn classns TuPsday, IIPilman announced his decision to return for his senior season with the Irish under head coach Paul Mainicri instead of signing with the Twins. lie r,onfirmnd that one of 
see HEILMAN/page 23 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Doherty stuns Notre Dame with decision to leave 

• Delaware coach Brey takes over as Doherty heads for North Carolina 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN As,oci.uc Sporis Editor 
This spring. th!\ futures of sev!•ral prominent f"igurns in Notrn Dame athletics wero up in the air. 
-
Irish fans hoped All­American basketball star Troy Murphy would hang around for his junior year rather than bolt for the NBA. Tbcv wondcrcd if head foot­
ball· coach Bob Davie would have another year to prove hP could lead Notre Dame to success. They questioned who would replace Michaol Wadsworth as athletic direr.­tor. 
But no one doubt!'d that first-year head basketball r:oach Matt Doherty would he 
around f'or the 2000-01 sea­son. Big mistake. 
Murphy's still wearing blue and gold. Davie's back as head football coach. And Kevin \,\,'hilc took over as aLh­ldi1: director. 
Doherty. howevnr. stunned tho Notre Dame community in July by leaving the lrh,h in the lurch after sorving just one year of a five-year con­trac l. After guiding Notre Dame to its best season in a dor:ade. a 22-15 record and a runner-up spot in the National Invitation Tournament. Doherty left to accept the head coaching position at North Carolina, his alma mater. 
"I never thought that this would come about so soon in my career," Doherty said. "I was never set in my minrl that I was going to leave. I was the most confused I'd ever been in my life because I didn't know what I wanted to do. It was the hardest deci­sion I've over had to make." 
Ber.ausn Doherty took off in the middle of tlH• summer recruiting period. White 

faced prnssurc to hiro  a  new  
head roach imnrndiat1~ly.  
"One, I felt  our  team  was  

absolutely broken-spirited," White said. "Coach Doherty had captured the imagination and enthusiasm and spirit of those guys. Two, thero were pretty significant rpcruiting implications. Three, it was .July. and I felt it was impor­tant to move quickly for the school we were going to dis­
rupt." 
White came through on his first major decision for Notre Dame athletics. sP-lccting Delaware head coach Mike Brey as a replacement within three days. 
White began the coaching search before Doherty even left. Once Kansas head coach and former North Carolina assistant Roy Williams turned down the Tar Heels position, 
see COACH/page 16 

. Doherty neither saint nor traitor, just human 
Funny how perceptions 
change. 

When school endod in May. 
Matt Dohertv was a Domer 
d e i t y • . 
Digger 
Phelps was 
an accom­
p Ii shed 
analyst and 
J o h n 
Macleod 
was as for­
gotten as 
J o h n 
Jordan. 
Mike Brey? 
Who was 
that? 
Th r e e _m o n t h s 
I a t e r . 

Doherty is a Tar llcnls traitor. 
Phelps is an eager ox-coach, 
Macleod is the "real" archi-

ter.t of last year's NIT runnPr­up toam and Brny is Doherty 2000 -young and aggrnssiVP with ACC c:o111wctions. 
This all began when llohPrty accepted the North Carolina head roaching position on .July 
11. less than a wnek after Bov Williams dPcidnd to romain ,;t Kansas. By signing his nanw on a piece of Tar Ilnels sta­tionarv. 
Doh.orly subsnqu()ntly altnrnd the public persona of these four coaclll\S and PX· coaches. 
Among thc quostions from Irish fans: llow could DohPrtv loavc us in tho middle of' Julv;~ Didn't he promise that "Tt{is (Notre Dam!1) is a job I can see myself at for the rost of my life?" How dare ho ditch out on Troy Murphy af't0.r convinc­ing thfl certain first-round draft pick to stay for his junior soason? Didn't he sign a multi-year contract.? Whern's 
see INSIGHT/page 25 
vs. South Carolina Volleyball Volleyball
II e
in fort Wayne, Ind. vs. Fairfield at Alma Tournament
SPORTS 

Saturday, 12 p.m. Sept. I. 4 p.m. Sept. l-2
• • Cross country 
ATA ar Valparaiso Inv. 
vs. Derroir syc Hlue vs. Whire vs. Texas A & M 
Sept. 9, TBA 

Sunday, I p.m. Sept. I, 4 p.m. ~ Sepe. 2, 12 p.m.
~..
GLANCE 
~~ 
.-~­
" 
~~~ 
j 
' 


'-.___;2fujAe:>3 I 20::;)a 
R 
;Y'Se '.,L /­__, 
MUSIC TElE111SIOII• i 
video_music_awards 
get p~id to watch the mtv' vi~eo music ~rds! 
( ... well not cash but if you know your stuff, 1-800 CALL ATT for Collect Calls and MTV want you to win 
e rJat prizes.) 
IT I I 
Watch the biggest night in music, the MTV Video Music Awards 
and while you gasp in awe at all the madness, mayhem and sheer star force of it all, 
pay close attention to the details; like who wins awards like Best New Artist or Best 
Video and which. one of your favorite artists goes home with the most awards. 
then log on to callatt.com and get the scoop! 
When you successfully answer all the questions about the ultimate awards show, you could win: 
one of 3 grand prizes: 
Each award-worthy 1-800 CALL ATT Grand Prize package includes an MTV electronic scooter, digital camera, and an MTV music generator. 
Thousands will receive $5.00 off their next music purchase*at: Q•1mij¦ 
cdnow.com 
Never mlaa a beat."' 

"Purchase must be $19.95 or more to receive discount. 
Tune in to MTV's Video Music Awards September 7th at 8/7c. for your chance to win! 
GO TO CALLATT.COM OR MTV.COM NOW FOR MORE INFORMATION. 

No purchase necessary. Void wherever prohibited or restricted by law. This contest commences on September 8, 2000 and ends on September 29, 2000, You must be a residing citizen of the US 18 to 49 years of age at time of entry. Winners will be randomly selected. Odds of winning will be determined by the total number of eligible entrtes received. Subject to complete official rules posted on mtv.com. For a copy of the winner's list, please write to: The MTVi Group, Video Music Awards Watch and Win Sweepstakes, 770 Broadway, 1Olh Floor, NY, NY 10003. 


I I I I
_ij / I 
11 
1

B.lvma~00 1 
1

1 1 1 ( video_music_awards 1 : I I i I i 
get paid to watch the mt\l video 'musi 
(...well not cash but if you know your stuff, 1-800 CALL ATT for Collect Calls and MTV want you towi Watch the biggest night in music, the MTV Video Music Awards 
and while you gasp in awe at all the madness, mayhem and sheer star force of it all, pay close attention to the details; like who wins awards like Best New Artist or Best Video and which one of your favorite artists goes home with the most awards. 
then log on to callatt.com and get the scoop! 
When you successfully answer all the questions about the ultimate awards show, you could win: 
one of 3 grand prizes: 
Each award-worthy 1-800 CALL ATT Grand Prize package includes an MTV electronic scooter, digital camera, and an MTV music generator. 
Thousands will receive $5.00 off their next music purchase*at: Qmim¦ 
cdnow.com 
Never miss a beat."' 

"Purchase must be $19.95 or more to receive discount. 
Tune in to MTV's Video Music Awards September 7th at 8/7c. for your chance to win! 
GO TO CALLATT.COM OR MTV.COM NOW FOR MORE INFORMATION. 

'
; ; i '1· 

No purchase necessary. Void wherever prohibited or restricted by law. This contest commences on September 8, 2000 and ends on September 29, 2000. You must be a residing citizen of the US 18 to 49 years of age at time of entry. Winners will be randomly selected. Odds of winning will be determined by the total number of eligible entries received Subject to complete official rules posted on mtv.com. For a copy of the winner's list, please write to· The MTVi Group, Video Music Awards Watch and Win Sweepstakes, 770 Broadway, 10th Floor, NY, NY 10003. 



