

30 years after high school, the mother of a Saint Mary's grad realizes her own dreams and returns to South Bend, 
In her daughter's footsteps 
Le Mans turns 75 
Saint Mar!J's most visible landmark celebmtes its diamond anniversary 
XV . 20 
Library 
nets $16m bequest 
• Gift breaks record for largest donation by estate. 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
News Writer 
In what is tlw largest est.ttc gift ever madt\ to the UniVPrsitv. thP late William Carpv's t;statP donated $1 G milli;in to renovate thr IIPsburgh Library. establish a scholarship fund and support thr Cniversity's Erasmus lnstitutP. 
ThP gift is part of Notre llanw's $7(>7 million Grrwrations campaign. began in l1J97. UnivPrsity presidi'nt Fatlwr l•:dward Mallov said thl~ donation is rPfkrtive ;)r Carry's dt>votion to NotrP llanw's pros­pt>rity. 
"\Vp an• grateful for this gift. which so strikingly demon­stratrs Bill Carey's boundless affection for Notrr Dame." he said in a press rPlcase. "I Ir will always br rPmembrred hrre as 01w of Our Lady's most gener­ous sons." 
Although the donation was only rncrntly announced. Carey had alerted tlw University of his int<'nlion livP yPars ago. 
"I Ir was a loyal alumnus and it was his lifolong dream to leavP a positivP impact on Nntrr Dame." said Michelle 
see CAREY/page 4 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY Associate News Ediror 
On Christmas Eve 1999. Bridget Torsell received a Christmas present in her mail­box that was to br thr rralization of a life­long dream. Awaiting the now 48-year­old woman was an acceptance letter from the Saint Marv's admissions office. 
"I was filled with excitement that my dream was finally going to come true," said Torsell. 
Sinc0 August 1997. Torsell had been taking rlasses at the Harrisburg Area Community College in Pennsylvania part­timr whilr working a full-time job in the pastoral can1 department of a nursing and rdirnmPnt home. This August, Torsdl joined th rnngs of' freshmen and transfrr studPnts moving into SRint Mary's. The move marked a milestone in Torsdl's lifo. 
this month. 
Scene . page 12 
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
HTTP://OBSERVFR.N D.EDU 
FLYING HIGH 

"J wanted to come to Saint Mary's from nity college after a divorce that "made me the time I was a small girl," said Torsell. realize it was time I started to make a "My family had been lifelong Notre Dame new decision for myself, and Ijust felt like fans after my grandfather met Knute God was giving me tho opportunity to do Rockne in 1926 when Notre Dame played what I had wanted to do 30 years ago but 
Penn State, and I loved Saint Mary's. But after I graduated from high school, one thing led to another and it wasn't possible for me to attend Saint Mary's." 
Torsell encouraged her daughter. Mr. lanie Garman. to apply to Saint Mary's when she 

began searching for collegrs. In August 1994. Torsell helped her daughter move into Saint Mary's as a freshman and in 1998. watched her graduate from the placr, Torsrll loved and longed to havr a degree from. 
She began taking classes at the cummu-
Filling the stands 
A Saint Mary ·s student addresses the lack ofsupport for Belles athletics following this weekend's l'Olleyball match. 
Viewpoint . page 11 


"I always knew ... it would be Saint Mary's or nowhere." 
Bridget Torsell Saint Mary's junior 
it would be Saint Mary's or nowhere," she said. 
The months prior to her arrival at Saint rvlary's marked major life changes for Torsoll. She sold her home and all her furniture before arriving in South Bend this fall. 
couldn't." 
After two years at community college, Torsell began looking for a school to transfer to. 
"I had 1 O schools within a 50-mile radius of where I lived bul I always knew that if I was going to transfer. 

Her parents have been with her through the entire process, she said. 
"My parents have been so supportive, and after everything that I have been through with my personal life, they were just overjoyed to see me heading to Saint Mary's," said Torsell. "When I was leav­ing, my dad put his arms around me and started to cry and said, 'Finally you are going to go some place where you want to be."' 
Torsell's daughter and 20-year-old son Jared are also supportive of their moth­er's choice. 
"My son is very happy for me, but he says he misses me." she said. "He had lived with me in the house up until the day I sold it so that was very hard." 
Like many students, Torsell found it challenging to adapl to life away from her family in her first weeks at Saint Mary's. 
see TORSELL/page 4 

Monday 

SEPTEMBER 18, 
2000 
_j 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, September 18, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
It's a niatter of our safety 
We've all done it once. 

As I turned my car into the Angela parking lot late one night last week, my eyes glanced across the glowing green numbers on my dash­board. 4:05 a.m.. it read, taunting me with the fact it was stealing the 
remaining hours of pre­cious sleep from me, minute by minute. 
As I navigated my car between the last remaining set of white lines in the parking lot, I looked up to see the hazy blue emer­gency light illuminating the 

phone about 15 feet away 
Noreen GIiiespie
from my car. 
I knP-w the rules. I knew I should pick up the phone, ask for an escort, and be Managing safely driven back to my Hditor dorm. 
But as the glowing green numbers changed from 4:05 to 4:06, and as my eyes became heavier and heavier, my ma.in concern was not my safety, but rather, my bed. I knew that picking up that phone was going to cost mo al least 10 minutes of sleep, 10 min• utes of waiting in the parking lot, 10 minutes of aimlessly humming to the radio to keep my eyes from dosing right there in the driver's seat. 
My fatigue won out. 

I stepped out of the car. locked the door, and walked completely across campus to Holy Cross llall. I won't pretend for a second that it wasn't eerie; when you're the only person on campus at 4:07 a.m. you hear everything -animals, rustling leaves, wind blowing. And it's scary. 
But when the dock is ticking and it's 4:08, I could justify the risk by picking up my pace and convincing myself that my campus is really safe. 
Nothing could happen to me, right? 
That same evening, only five hours before. a Saint Mary's student had been found beaten on the pavement of that same parking lot. On my safe campus. 
Whether she knew her attacker or not is irrelevant. What is relevant is that while it didn't happen to me, it happened to her. And it just as easily could have been me. 
We've all had moments when our judgement has temporarily lapsed. It is easy when we sit on rural, isolated campuses to believe that we truly do live in a bubble. But the sobering reali· ty is that violence does happen here. Rape hap­pens here. Assault happens here. 
And while it hasn't happened to most of us, it can. 
Tonight when I drove into the Angela parking lot. before I switched the key in the ignition, I picked up the illuminated phone. It would be another 10 minutes, I knew. It would be anoth­er 10 minutes, in the waning hours of night 1 would be without my precious sleep. 
But sleep is irrelevant when 10 minutes ensures your safety. 
.. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Finn Pressly Jacqueline Browder Jason McFarley Graphics Nace Phillips 
Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Tim Ca5cy 

Noah Arnstadter 

Viewpoint 

Lab Tech L1uren Heck 
Liz Lang 
Th, Obstrver {USPS 5'.19 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ("Xccpr during cx,1m .-1nd v,11.:.uion periods. The Observer is ,1 member of rh(" Asmci,ued Press. AH reproduction rights arc rescrv<"d. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Movie: Cinema at the  . Performance: "Matap1at:  . Lecture: "Moby Dante?"  . lecture: "Proust's  
Snite. "Vertigo," 7 p.m.,  Music, Song and Dance of  Piero Boitani. 4:45 p.m.,  Reinvention of'the Novel,"  
Annenbcrg Auditorium  Quebec," 7:30 p.rn., Little  102 Hesburgh Library  4:45 p.m.• Annenbcrg  
. Lecture: "Dating. Mating  Theatre/ Moreau Center,  . Lecture: "Do New  Auditorium  
and Relating," columnist  tickets available through  Economy Workers Need  . Lecture: "Should  
Ellen Gootblatt, 7 p.m.,  284-4626  Unions?" Amy Dean, 8  Evolution Be Taught in  
Carroll Auditorium  . Movie: "The Piano." 8  p.m., 102 DeBartolo Hall  Public Schools?" 7:30 p.m.,  
p.m., Montgomery Theatre  Madeleva Hall  

Compiled from U-Wire reports



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Penn State rally, vigil support 13 assault victims 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. "Outrage grew when we were Spanier said the university took action Armed with handmade signs and as soon as the first report came in.
talking about [the 13

posters, students took to Old Main "The university's been very con­steps at noon on Friday to rally assaults}. We're not happy cerned f'rom the moment it occurred. Pennsylvania State University's sup­with how the Penn State We deployed a significant number of port for the 13 victims of the Snyder people," Spanier said, citing the help
administration deals with 

Hall assaull'l. of Penn State Police Services, coun­
The goals of Friday's rally and vigil sexual assault. " selors, the offices of' Residence Life were threefold, said senior Alyssa and Student Affairs and other units. Pinsker, focusing on educating men "The university's response was sub­
Erika Dusen

and women about sexual assault, ask­stantial. I'm proud of the dozens of
Penn State senior

ing the administration to publicly people who got involved," Spanier address the incidents and release said. "The suspect was apprehended more details and facts. Michelle Yates, an organizer of the as quickly as possible." 
event.

Organized by no particular group on The group would like to see the uni• campus, the idea for the rally evolved "Outrage grew when we were talk· versity president address the student after a Feminist Majority Leadership body about the incident. Pinsker said. 
ing about it," said senior Erika Dusen. "We're not happy with how the Penn

Alliance meeting. "As far as I know, the university Concern for these sexual assault vic­State administration deals with sexual didn't say anything. It just seems like 
assault."

tims and violence against women in a cycle of silence to me," said senior Penn State President Graham
general sparked the rally. said junior Allison Carey. 
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA 
Group decries anti-sweatshop intimidation 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 

Next week. college presidents across the country will receive a letter urging careful consideration when debating to join anti-sweatshop groups, such as the Worker Rights Consortium. A group of economists and lawyers, the Academic Consortium on International Trade, wrote the letter to communicate the members' feelings that colleges often easily comply with student demands to join anti-sweatshop groups. "We decided to focus on these campus anti-sweatshop campaigns because many of us felt that the decision-making process had not been handled in an open and kind of careful way," said an economics professor at the University of Michigan, Hobert M. Stern. "We thought there was too much intimidation going on," said Jagdish Bhagwati, an economics professor at Columbia University, who helped found the consor­tium. Although there is no verification that the letter will be sent to the University of Iowa, it is a possibility. The UI is a member of the Worker Rights Consortium. 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
Student pushes buttons for tuition dollars 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

George W. Bush and Al Gore are paying for Brian Richards' college education. He sells campaign buttons at political rallies to earn money for school. "Of course, this year I took the year off, it being an election year and everything," he said. Hichards said the money he expects to earn this election season -$30,000 -will be enough to cover part of his tuition to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He has been following the candidates to campaign events since April, selling buttons to supporters in about 50 cities so far this elec­tion year. ''I've been just about everywhere I can go," he said at the Bush rally in Indianapolis Sept. 6. 'Tm willing to go as far as I can go in a car." Many other souvenir vendors follow campaigns of both parties sell­ing memorabilia to supporters who want mementos of their trip to a political rally or are looking for a way to express their loyalty to a candidate. Daniel Richards. Brian's older brother, has been in the business for more than 20 years. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South BEl1d Fcm!C!!JE 
~ t=fer dlyt:.ine an:lit.irrs arrl higi t:mpa,:ab.lrEs 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 18. 
Os 
H L 

Tuesday ~ 80 59 Wednesday Q, 71 50 Thursday ~A 60 44 
FRONTS: 
.......... ----.........

II) 2000 AccuWnther, Inc. COLD WARM' STATIONARY

Friday ~ 61 45 
p,...,,., 

®© .. CJD.. 
High Low Showen Rain T-•lorma Flurri.. Snow lea Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
V1• AHOC!at6d P,.tu


Saturday ~ 59 44 
.......... '' 
Allanta 76 59 Las Vegas 99 74 Portland 80 56 Ballimore 79 61 Memphis 86 64 Sacramento 100 62 Boston 76 63 Milwaukee 81 64 St LOUIS 88 65
Q,Q_Q_A,~Q ~nu 
Chicago 87 64 New York 76 63 Tampa 83 73 
ShowBrs T•storms Ram Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 88 66 Philadelphia 80 62 Washington DC 79 63 
Via Associafm:i Press Gnwh,csNel 
Monday, September 18, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
IU prof, Knight critic discusses role of college athletics 
only faculty member at the "Unfortunately, schools and returned to his native 
By TIM LOGAN 
school to publicly call for the Montreal, where, as he put it
not only neglect under­
Senior Staff Writer 
coar.h's ouster. "no one's ever heard of Bobby
graduate education, but I 
That's when his life Knight." In May. Murray Sperber 11nd changed. think, desperately, they Sperber was planning to go Indiana l:niversity aftnr "1 kopt spr.aking out," he back to Indiana in the spring
need the tuition dollars
rrcciving d1\ath thrnats for his said Friday aL Notre Dame's to do research, and resume
the undergraduates 
criticism ol' controvPrsial Ill llammes Bookstore. "And as it classes next year, but after bask,~Lball roach Bob Knight. came closer to that decision in bring." Knight's firing last week. the But today -just a week May, I began receiving lots of professor hopes to return at'tt\r Knight was fired -threats." sooner to do what he loves: 
Murray Sperber 
Spubnr is back in "I see dead people," was teaching students. Bloomington. meeting with his written on a pro-Knight Web Indiana University professor Sperber admitted, however. bosses and deciding whlm to site in reference to Sperber that Knight's departure came rdurn to teaching at Urn and other top "enemies" of the English rlass led by teaching as a surprise. 
assistants.
school whnre hi' has worknd Bmbattled coach. And there "Everyone expected that the sincP 1971. were more personal attacks. "And I suddenly flashed on end would come at a parking 
On his wav horn!' this week­said Sperber. whose phone this vision of one of these lot in [Purdue's) Markey end. h,~ slopped al Notre Dame numbnr is listed in the lunatics coming Oying through Arona," he said. "No one to discuss his experience and Bloomington telephone book. the door and there's this expected it would happen as it 
his new book. "I began rnreiving huge young teaching assistant and happened." Sperber may not be the amounts of nasty stuff," he 25 freshmen and he gets vio­In the past. Sperber. whose average linglish professor. I le said. "And then the fans dis­lent," he said. "And so I went first book on college sports is perhaps America's foremost covered thev could find me bv to my boss and said 'I can't was published in 1990, had critic of college athlntics and looking in the IU srhedule ~f tearh under these circum­often been called for press 
has writttrn r,iur books about classes." stances..,. comment about Knight's the subject. Sperber had had enough The university offered to put behavior. This experience l.ast spring, hn stepped into when an anonymous caller police in his rlasses. but attuned him to the media thn national spotlight when phonrd the professor and Sperber, who was a graduate attention his university CNN rnleascd a tape of Knight bPgan reading off the list uf student at a tumultuous received and how it was not choking one of his players and his classes and room numbers Berkeley, Calif. campus in the for academics -for IU's the coarh l'ame und,~r rcvicV\ for the !'all semester as well as 1960s. declined. He took a music and journalism pro­from Indiana. Sp1\rber was the the tutorials of his freshman semester's leave of absence grams that are among the best 

We didn't become Fortune"' magazine's America's Most Admired Company* by accepting the status quo. We got there by hiring and training confident graduates with the courage to think in innovative and revolutionary ways. 
No other corporation can match the diversity ofoppor­
Industry Day 2000 Career Fair 
tunities at GE. Because we have small company attitudes with 
September 20th 10:00AM 
large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You 
4:00PM 

can moye from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, 
Joyce Center

and never leave GE. We're a leader in every business we compete in, and 
GE will also be at the Business Career Forum on
we're looking for leaders like Alphie who will tal<e us even 9/21 & 9/22.
further. Startyour career by visiting our website now. An Equal 
Opportunity Employer. 
Learn about us at 

www.gecareers.com 

We bring good things to life. 
GE Aircraft Engines• GE Appliances· GE Capital Services• GE Corporale Research and Development· GE Industrial Sys\ems GE Global eXcha11!Je Sef\lices • GE Lighting· GE Medical Systems· GE Plastics· GE Power Sys1ems •GE Supply •GE Transportation Systems· NBC 
in the country, Sperber noted -but rather for its basketball program and the basketball coach. 
"It was Bobby Knight University," Sperber said. 
This pointed to a theme that he has preached throughout his career -that athletics overshadows academics at many big-name institutions. This is the subject of the book Sperber was at Notre Dame to promote. "Beer and Circus: How Big-Time College Sports is Crippling Undergraduate Education." 
The book's thesis is that large research universities do not value teaching undergrad­uates, and so those students become alienated and spend mur.h of their time partying. And this leads to an overem­phasis on college sports. 
"Unfortunately, schools not only neglect undergraduate education, but I think. desper­ately, they need the tuition dollars undergraduates bring," he said. "This is their main source of income. So they've got to give them some­th in g for their money, and increasingly, what it turns out to be is what I call beer and cirrus -a huge party scene, much of it revolving around college sports." 
Notre Dame is not one of these schools, Sperber said. Since the days of Knute Rockne. the University has kept its athletic department under control and remained focused on undergraduate education. And, unlike at some schools, no Notre Dame coach since Rockne has become big­ger than the University. 
Also. Sperber said, Notre Dame set a good example of how to handle a potential coaching problem when it qui­etly urged Lou Holtz to resign in 1996. There was never any major public outcry, as hap­pened at Indiana last week. and there was no doubt about who was in charge. 
"It shows who controls 
things," he said. 
Unfortunately. Sperber said, Indiana could not follow Notre Dame's example, and this cre­ated a lot of problems. The issue became publir and the public became galvanized, with some on campus support­ing Knight and others backing Indiana president Myles Brand. 
These tensions boiled over last week in protests that led to 10 students being arrested and threats against Brand and other administrators. 
These problems were an outgrowth of the same ones that led Sperber to flee to Canada. 
"Although, from my e-mail and such," the professor said, 'Tve now become a hero." 
efightinglrish.•• 
The Marketplace!. 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, September 18, 2000 
Torsell 
continued from page I 
"The nrst week or two took some adjusting," Torsell said. "The first week I woke up one morning and cried because I realized Lhal I was so far from home that I couldn't just pick up and go home for the weekend. I asked myself if I had done the right thing in deriding to come here, bul I knew in my heart that this was whoni I should bt~ and that this fueling of sadness would pass." 
In addition. adjusting to an environment where there are fow penplo her age was a c:hal­lf1ngr.. 
"It took some <1djusting for me to gel Llsed to the girls al Saint Mary's and for them to get mrnd to me. and it was difficult at first not having someone my age to talk to. bul basically, I just am enjoying doing my own thing," said Torsrll. 
Like other college students, slrn rncPivns can• packages from home. 

"My dad sends me my mail t'Vrwy wenk. and htst Wt'ck was my birthday sn I rnceived a lot of birthday cards in the mail." sht> said. 
In search of the total college nxperinnce, Torsell chose lo bypass living in an apartment to live in a dorm at Saint Mary's. 

"Originally I had planned to livl~ in an apartmnnl because I wanted to bring my dog, but I diicidnd to leave my dog with my parP-nts so I cou Id live in the dorms and have the full college cxpPrinn<:n," slw said. "Wlrnn my daughl!\r was al Saint Mary's. I stayed wiLh her in the dorms sPvnral times and always nnjoyed those experiences. I always felt that the dorm experi­time, althou!(h she said that bal­ence was something I had ancing full-time work with tak­missed. and I wanted to have ing classes at the community col­that experience." lege has made her a disciplined 
Torsell lives in Holy Cross Hall student. on the Annunciata flour in a sin­"I remember when my daugh­gle room. The floor is designated ter was here she would always for seniors. say that she never had any free 
"!l's been really great, and 1 time to do any recreational read­haven't had any problems," said ing. and now I understand what Torsell. "There was maybe one she meant because I have so night when I heard people come much reading to do," she said. "I in laLe and I woke up, but I am haven't had to pull any all­really enjoying the experience." nighters yet though.'' 
Torsell also frequenti;; the din­Oul<;ide of class, in her limited ing hall at the College. spare time, Torsell is enjoying all 
"So far the food is good, but that Saint Mary's has to offer. 
it's really hard  "I  love  the  
to bypass all the sweets and desserts," she  "I always felt that the dorm experience was  atmosphcrA here," she said. "I like  
said.  something I had missed,  that there are  
A sociology major with junior status,  and I wanted to have that experience. "  so many opportunities to attend mass  
Torsell expects  and  become  
to graduate in May 2002. So  Bridget Torsell Saint Mary's junior  involved with campus min­ 

far. her acade­

mic expPrience 
has becm posiUve. 
''I really like all my classes, and my professors are all very nice," said Torsell. 'Tm doing better than what I had anticipat­ed. l came in wilh a 3.8 ]grade point average!. and didn't know whal to expect. But it's not as difTicult as I thought the transi­tion might be." 
Torsnll said that her age also contributes to what she can bring lo the classroom. 
"In class discussions and in 

writing papers, I have l'ound that my 30 years of experiences [sincn graduating high school! can c:ontributf! a lot and are dif­forent than what the other girls in class have experienced." said Torsell. 
Sprnding time studying takes up the bulk of Torse!I's free 
istry.'' 

Tors ell attends a bible study and .inter­faith prayer group regularly as well as working with learning disabled children on campus on weekends through a program sponsored by the College. 
She said the program cornplo­mon ts her academic interests since she hopes to work with learning disabled children or in _the juvenile probation field upon graduation. 
For Torsell, there is little that could make her experience at Saint Mary's any better. save one thing. 
"If I had one wish right now, it would be that somPone could give me five G.A. [general admis­sion] tickets so I could bring my brother and father to a Notre Dame homo football game," she said. 
Five shot in Elkhart, one gunDian arrested 
Associat~d Press 

ELKHAHT 
Five people were injured when a man fired shots into the crowd at a Mexican­American dance Saturday. 
The shootings happened just before 10 p.m. in the Elkhart Civic Plaza. where several hundred people wen'! cele­brating Mexican indepen­dence. None of the six victims suffered life-threatening injuries. said Frank Doll, a nursing supervisor at Elkhart General Hospital. 
"I was scared to death. I dove out of the way,'' said wit­ness Dick Salinas. 
Police at the scene arrested Pedro Aguilar, 21. on a pre­liminary charge of attempted murder. 
The names of the five peo­ple shot were not available early Sunday. All were being treated at Elkhart General, and two were expected to undergo surgery, police said. About an hour after his arrest, Aguilar complained of injuries and also was taken to the hospital for treatment. 
Investigators were unsure what prompted the shooting. Witnesses told police Aguilar was being chased by some people when he turned toward them and oponed lire. Police of!1cers intervened and arrested Aguilar. 
"Thr.y arn~sted the guy in the process of the shooting," Detective Lt. Tom Cutler said. "The ofncer I talked to said he witnessed about eight shots fired." 


Entry-Level Engineering Opportunities 
'The Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicaiio is one of the largest and TI"IQSt 
efficient wastewater treatment agencies in the world. 
Tbe District is seekin& qualified individuals in the fields 0£ Civil. Electrical, Envfr-on:inental. Mechanical and Snuctural Engineering 
Please stop by our booth during the College of Engincerina Career Fair beins held on September 2011b and 2 1•' and talk vvith mernbers of' our Engineerin~ and Hu:rnan Resources Departments about exciting and rewarding cu.reel' civil servi.cc opponunities. with the District and to an-ange an interview. The District 
will be conduchr'l" intervieW's on Septernbe-r 2 l st. A copy 0£ your colleae transcript and resuxne are requested. 
All positions arc located in the Chicago metro area at one of" our seven treatment plants or-at our main offic;c located ju.$t we.st of' Michi~at'l Ave. 
If you are unable t.o attend the Career Day please call u:s at (3 12) 75 1-5100 or visit our website at www.m vvrdgc.dst.iJ_us. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/D 
and the Dallas Museum of Hey 1 Ls -meet the undergrads.Contemporary Art. 
Write for The Observer. Call 1-5323. 
He died in Dallas on July 3, 1997. 
Carey 
continued from page I 
Shakour, Notni Danw·s dirnc:­lor of plarnwd giving. Ol'ficials bPliPVP students will soon SC'P Urn b,~nelits of' Cari~y's 
donation. 
"Thc bulk ol' Lhc girt is going to Lhc library renovation. Them will b,i som;, ma! tangibl!~ dif­f'cr<incns in the inWrior of the building," Shakour said. "Some of the donation will also be used to attract some top-notch !'acuity." 
Carny. a member of the Badin Guild. a Notre Dame society whose members have put the Univflrsity in their estatti plans. will likely have a permanrnt recognition on rum­pus. 
"That is one way were arc able to thank him." Shakour said. 
Carey found success in the oil and mining businesses after graduating from Notw Damr. in 1946 and earning a master's degree from l!arvard in 1950. A recognized sponsor of the arts. Carey was a benefactor of the Dallas Museum of Fine Art 


1\.1onday, September 18, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Fighting ensues in Colombia: 
Government troops were engaged in heavy combat Sunday against leftist rPbe!s in the jungles of northwest Colombia, with casual­ties rnported high on both sides. 1CJ govern­m(~nt soldiers worn confirmed dead. 
Police fire into riot: Police !ired at mobs of rival political groups during municipal elec­tions in New Odhi, leaving seven people dead. Eight pPopln were injured in stabbing and otht:r incidpnts of vio!r,nce during the claslrns bt:tweon political activists. Police fired at the rioters alhw tnar gas shells failed to disperse Llwm. Three pliopln were killed on Lhe spot and !'our dind of bullnt w01mds in a hospital. it reportml. Tho clashos occurred after members of rival political parties argued owr bal lots. Otlwr details wl'rn not available. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Transsexual married in Texas: A transsexual who was born a man exchanged marital vows wilh another woman in a cere­mony Saturday, taking advantage of an appeals court ruling that defines gender only by chromosomes. A small group of sign­carrying protesters gathered outside the apartments where the wedding was held, saying the ceremony was an abomination. 
Residents warned of Colorado fire: Rcsid<rnts packed irreplaceable mementos and prepared for the possibility or evacuation as firefighters fought a 700­acre blaze that threatened about 250 moun­tain homes on Sunday. The fire's thick pall of smoke spread eastward for miles from the canyons and foothills about 12 miles south­west of downtown Boulder. Temperatures in the <J0s and low humidity dried out grass and pine needl<is, adding to the fuel in the fire's path. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Delegates endorse video gamesban: Dnlngates to the Indiana State Medical Association's annual convention voted unani­mously Sunday to support efforts to restrict youngster's access to violent video games. The group. which is Indiana's largest medical association, says growing scientific evidence shows that the violence-laced games provoke children to commit violent acts. A resolution the roughly 200 delegates endorsed voices support for Indianapolis' recent ordinance placing stringnnt restrictions on children's accnss to the video games. 
Market Watch 9/15 

Dow 
10,927.00 -160.47 
]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: Volume:t.086 480 
1,268,489,984 
AMEX: 971.86 +5.37 
Nasdaq: 3835.23 -78.63 
N'YSE: 669.42 -5.00 

S&P 500: 1465.81 -15.06 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $CAIN PRICE CISCO SYfff.MS (C~CO) .1.50 +2.4'i 61.75 INTl'l CORI' (INTCI -2.IU -3.53 57.52 lll,AC!r Cl\lU'(llRCI.) -'1.(11 -7.8() 78.31 MIC!lOSOH UlRI' !MSFl'i ~ 1.62 -2.47 ti4.J 1} Df.11 COMl'lJTFR (I\El.1.1 -0.87 -.!..W .l,.7~ 
PHILIPPINES 


Associated Press 

OLO 
Pitched battles between government troops and Muslim rebels holding 19 hostages in the southern Philippines resumed at dawn todav with ferocious mortar she"ning of guerrilla positions. 
There was no word on the fate of the hostages, who include six foreigners, as fighting raged for the sec­ond day on the island of Jolo, 600 miles south of Manila. 
"The fighting is still con­tinuing," said the govern­ment executive secretary, Ronaldo Zamora. "We have no news yet on the hostages." 
Heavy mortar shelling of rebel positions resumed at dawn after tapering off overnight. Most of the fight­ing was in the interior hills about 12 miles from the main town where the Abu Sayyaf rebels have their hideouts. 
"We are hitting only selected targets," a military source said. "You don't hit the main camp because you might hit the hostages." 
Local residents said scores of people had been killed or wounded in the first day of the assault but said they could not give any clear estimate because troops had sealed off the area of operations. 
The military, backed by light bombers and heli­copter gunships, began the attack early on Saturday as Manila's patience with the increasingly embarrassing five-month-old hostage cri­sis finally snapped. 
Most civilian telephone links to Jolo were cut off and ferry and air services were suspended. 
Local officials estimate the number of rebels at about 5,000 but say only 500 to 1,000 are likely to fight. The rest, recent recruits attracted by easy ransom pickings, could flee. 
The hostages include an American, two French tele­vision journalists. three Malaysians and 13 Filipinos. 
President Joseph Estrada ordered the assault after repeated kidnappings by the rebels and a wave of condemnation for allowing them to collect millions of dollars in ransoms. 
Philippine officials said that the assault had brought an immediate rebel request for renewed negoti­ations. They said a rebel chief, Galib Andang, had made contact with the gov­ernment negotiating panel asking for the bombard­ment to be stopped and for negotiations to resume. 
CHINA 

Chinese officials arrest Catholic bishop 
But at midnight on Sept. 14, close gious conference in Beijing last
Associated Press 

to 60 security agents surrounded week had been widely interpreted EIJING the bishop's house, entered it and as indicating a slight thaw in rela­
An 81-year-old Roman Catholic seized him. tions between China and the bishop in southern China, who spent There is speculation that the Vatican. a total more than 30 years in prison arrest was because of Zeng's con­Since Bishop Zeng was ordained rot his loyalty to the Vatican, was tinued intransigent stand against as a priest in 1949, the year the re-arrested last week. cooperating with the government­Communists won power in China, he 
Since his release. Bishop Zeng, allied church. has been one of the most steadfast who is described as frail by associ­The arrest report coincided with opponents of the official "patriotic" ates, has reportedly been kept the publicized visit to China by a church, which accepts the suprema­under virtual houso arrest. with high Vatican official. Cardinal Roger cy of the Communist Party and the tight police surveillance. Etchegaray's attendance at a rcli-Pope's right to select bishops. 
page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 18, 2000 
FRANCE 
Authorities round up 11 Basque separatists 
Associated Press 
. PAHIS 

French authorities launrhcd u large-scale weekend sweep against Busque S()paratists. bringing in I I pnoplP f'or qucsLioning, seizing weaµons ancJ uncovering u C'land(\Sline , bomb-making factory. 
Six of those apprnhnnded Saturday night arc suspected ol' bt>longing to ET,\, an armPd group that has bi>c•n fighting f'or an independent Basque hom1iland in northrrn Spain. The othPr five arr. suspn1:tnd of' lodging tht• suspects at homns in southwestern 1:rance. 
Spanish 

"The government has
Interior . he was "verv Minister reaffirmed its determina­pleased" by Jainw Mayor the coopera­
tion to fight against all 
Ornja said tion demon­
forms ofterrorism."
Sundav the strated by police ·uction France and r a u s c' d Spain and
Lionel Jospin
"almost said it stood
French Prime Minister
irreparable damage" to ETA because sonrn suspects play key roles in the group's forgnry and logistical opprations. 
"This is the expertise that allows lhPm Lo put bombs in vehiclr.s," Mayor Onija told Spanish media. "It will bP hard Lo rPplare thest' peoplP with so much expPriPncP in the arna of logistics and (,!nc­tronks." 
Among those taknn into cus­tody Saturday wnre six Spaniards: Juan Angel Otxoan t(isana-Badiola. Ignacio San test11 ban -G oi k oetxea. Angel Pikabea-lJgalde, Maria de! Hosario Delgado-lriondo, Jesus Maria Zabala-Muguirra and Jose Luis Turrillas­Aranceta. authorities said. 
Turrillas-Aranccta was iden­Li f'ied as the h1!ad of ETt\'s logistical unit. 
i
1 nlit'.e said thev also round two /ar!{(• wnapon·s caches and uncovrred a small weapons factory that belonged to ETA. Both caches, which includnd 
dvnamite and detonators, \\;ere found on farms in the southwrstcrn Landes region. The J'acLOrv was found not f'ar away. in the small town of Sare. 
In Paris, Frnnch Prime Minister Lionrl Jospin issttf'd a statement praising Interior Ministr.r Daniel Vaillant and law enl'orccmenL authorities. 
"Thn government has rp.af­firmed its dt=!tcrmination to fight against all forms of ter­rorism and to roopt>rate f'ully with the Spanish authorities," the statemMt said. 
In a lottrr sent to Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar. French President Jacques Chirac said 
an example or European unity. 
The operation began just a dav after the arrest ol' Jose Ignacio Gra.cia Arregui in the French town of Bidart. Spanish authorities consider him the leader of the military wing of ETA and suspect him of ordering a 1995 assassina­tion attempt against King Juan Carlos or Spain. 
ET/\ has claimed responsi­bility for the deaths of nearly 800 people since 1968 in its campaign for Basque indepen­d ern:e. It ended a 14-month truce last December and has since been blamed for 12 killings, eight of them since June. 
The group, whose name stands for Basque Homeland and Freedom. has mostly tar­geted security force members. but in recent yeurs has begun killing members of both the Popular Party and the Socialist opposition. both ol' whom oppose Basque inde· pendencr.. 
If you are interested in representing Notre Daine at your high school over fall break or Christmas break, you will need to attend an information session on Tuesday, September 19 or Thursday, Septe1nber 21 at Too pm in 155 DeBartolo. 
Questions: E-mail Mike at Seeley.4@nd.edu 
Thank You! The Admissions Office 

Amer i can Sch o 0·1 s of Profess ion a I Psycho Io g y 
Changingthe Face ofPsychology 
"J cbode ISPP becau.,e it bad a dmall .1cbool atmoc1phere aniJ it bad the type ofprogram that I Wad looking for. Being ahle to tra~itionfrom the Madterd 
pro_9ram to the Doctoral Wad a uefinite plu.1/" 
-Diana M. Bonifas 

Illinois School of Professional Psychology Student 
From private practice to corporations, from counseling 
centers to board rooms, today's psychologists and 
professional counselors are finding endless opportunities 
waiting for them. 

Graduate Programs Offered... 
• 
APA Accredited Doctorate in Clinical Psychology (Psy.D.) 

• 
Clinical Psychology (M.A.) 

• 
Counseling Psychology (M.A.) 

• 
Health Services Administration (M.S.} 

• 
Postdoctoral Respecialization Programs 




Illinois School of Professional Psychology 
Chicago Campus 

Two First National Plaza, 20 S. Clark St., Third Floor, Chicago, IL 60603 
1-888-488-7537 

www.aspp.edu or visit our on-line campus at http://argosy.aspp.edu 
Monday, Sepcember 18, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
FRANCE 
French presidential race may decide Corsican question 
Aswciated Press 
.!\.1/\CCIO. Corsica 

Th(' sun splashes arross tlw crag­gy Mi>ditrrrarn\a.n island of Corsica, birthplacf' of t.h<> r.mpnror Napolnon, ca.sting magnificent mountain shadows and drawing hoJi<luymakr.rs to its br.ach11s and sapphir<' S{'as. 
But h<'hind th,, lush f'acadr is an island in thP grips of' iL violPnt ram­paign b~1 spparatists who have sought sinrP thr. mid-1970s to break nwav l'rom Franc<'. 
Tim rnav·hPm n1achr.d a shocking rlimax in· 1()t)8 with thP m,sassina­tion of Claud<• Erignac. Franrc's highPsl n!firial on tlw island, and 
Corsica 
At a glance
..... 

AREA: 3,352 square miles and divided into two departments, Haute-Corse and Corse-du-Sud. 
POPULATION: 260,000 
OFFICIAL LANGUAGE: 
French. Corsicans also speak a dialect similar to Tuscan. 
RELIGION: Roman Catholic 
HISTORY: Island rebels against Genoese rule in 1729; rebellion culminates in Corsican republic for 14 years, founded in 1755. France buys Corsica from Genoa in 1768, invades the island and defeats the nationalists in 1769. 
ECONOMY: Tourism. agricultural products including cheese. wine, citrus fruit and olive oil. 
now. !'rime Minister Lionel Jospin's own prcsidPntial ambitions may be jropardized by his attempts to strikn a compromisr with the mili­tanl-;. 
Corsira is a hot-bulton issue for a country that has always been pre­occupied with its own identity. esprcially nowadays as it merges into th() borderless. single-currency EuropPan Union. /\ll its neighbors -llrilain. Germany. Spain, Br.lgium, Switzerland and Italy ­havr giwn their rngions some men.­sum ol' at1tonomy. 
l{ut not Franr-e. 1\nd from Alsace on the Hhinr.. through Celtic: Brittany on thr Atlantic to the Basqm1 country straddling the. bor­drr with Spain. the regions are fed 

AP 

ILADES 
up with living in a country so centrally controlllid that all major roads lead to Paris. 
To easri the discontent, the French government may need to swallow its pridr. and show greater ncxibility. But so far. Jospin has little to show for having oponed talks with the separatists last year and for offering thr. island some limit­ed control over its affairs. Bombs keep exploding on the island 100 miles off southern France, and .Jospin's initiative has led to thA rnsignation of Interior :vfinistor Jean-Pierre Chevenement. 
While. some obsPrvnrs cau­tiously predict a r:hance of peace, Chevenement main­tains that Jospin's initiative threatens France's cohesion by enCfluraging other groups to demand self-rule. Others say Jospin is caving in to ter­rorism and that handing any power over to unruly Corsica -when' separatist violence is compounded by Mafia-style clan wars and racketeering ­is like letting tho fox guard the hen housP.. 
Corsicans. too, have their suspicions. 
Confidenr.e in the mainland was deeply shaken when Bernard BonnP.t, who replaced the murdered Erignac as pre­fect. was implicated in a 1999 arson attack that destroved an illegally built restaurant fre­quented by the nationalist crowd. An elitA Frenr,h mili­tary squad confessed to setting the fire. and BonnAt was fired. Nationalists suspect the fire was meant to spark a gang war. 
While separatists have con­!'o un ded sur.r,cssive French 
CSG, 
C'E.NTER F"OR 
SOC[AL CONCERNS 
Instituto Latinoamericano de Doctrina y Estudios Scidales 
Informational Meeting: Wednesday, September 20 7pm CSC 
What is Ilades? 
WHO can apply? 
Students applying to partici­pate in the Santiago, Chile program 
l-he Ilades Seminar enables students studying abroad in Chile to examine issues of poverty; development, social justice, liberation theology, and the global economy from a variety of different disciplines and perspectives. 
Where can you find out more about !lades? 
Contact Jessica Gray Ugray@nd.edu) at the Center for Social Concerns 631-3357 or Mark Farrell, Assistant Rector in Stanford Hall (Farrell.16@nd.edu) 

governments, the island's 260,000 residents have adapt­ed to the r,haos. Killings are mostly the result of rival groups battling it out, and fre­quent bombings of govern­ment buildings -one particu­lar tax office has been hit 19 times -are carefully planned to avoid deaths. 
"They shoot at each other, but they leave people like me alone," said Salvatore Delogu. a barber in Ajaccio, the island capital. "I stay away 
"The rrench government 
from poli­concessions, tics." doesn't want to recognize which is While polls what makes
{ devolution]. The French 
through the Jospin's ini­
only recognize one
years show tiative so an over­people" r i s k y . w he Im in g Already, majority of some sepa­
Jean-Francois Luciani
Corsicans ratists warn 
want the spokesman, Corsica Viva that it is just 
The separatists say France should follow Britain's exam­ple. 
"Great Britain recognizes that the Welsh are a nation, that the Scots are a nation," said Jean-Franr,ois Luciani, spokesman for Corsica Viva, one of the main nationalist groups. "The French govern­ment doesn't want to recog­nize this. The French only rer:­ognize one people." 
But the problem may not go 
away even if 
Paris grants 

island to remain part of France, the sP.paratist movement dors speak to their wishes for recognition as a people apart. with a language closer to Italian than French and a proud history of resistance to outside rule. 
The movement also embod­ies a deep frustration at being dependent on subsidies from France, according to Charles Napoleon, candidate for mayor of Ajaccio and great-great­grandnephew of Corsica's most famous son. 
l\'apoleon said he supports Jospin's plan and noted 
. Britain has alreadv undertak­en a similar experiment by handing some powers to Scotland and Wales while maintaining their union with England. 
a step toward the self-rule that Corsica had for 14 vears until France bought the island from Genoa in 1768. 
. "Onr,c Corsicans have devo­lution. thev can der:ide in the future if they want indepen­dence," said Paul Quastana. president of Corsir,a Nazione, a nationalist party. "This is only the beginning." 
Perhaps the best hope for pear,e is that so many Corsicans appear weary of vio­lenr,e. In Der,ember 1999, less than a year after Erignac's assassination, the separatists called a cease-lire and stepped up to the bargaining table . 
But the violence continues. In August alone, there were two political killings. three bombings and a wave of suspi­cious brush fires. 
'II ¦ Ii Notre Dame Center 
¦ :Ii ¦ for Ethics andReligious ¦¦ II Values in Business 
Proudly Presents 

Marina v.N. Whitman 
Former Executive Vice President and Chief Economistfor General Motors. Professor ofBusiness Administration and Public Policy at the University ofMichigan. 
The Involving Corporation: Global Pressures and National Responses 
Tuesday, September 19, 2000 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 7:00 p.m. 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 18, 2000 
Gordon downgraded to tropical storm 
the path with heavy rain. A said John Tyler. a pizza deliv­Assnciared Press 
voluntary evacuation had ery man who said he was dis­
been recommended. but many appointed by Gordon's force. 
CEDAH KEY. Fla. of town's 800 residents were "It's real weak," he said 
Tropical Storm Gordon staying put. Most had weath­before the storm made land­plowed into Plorida's Gull' ered hurricanes before. Davis fall. ··it's too dry and cool to Coast on Sunday with winds said. get much stronger." just below hurricane strength. Cedar Key sits two to three Others along the coast dronr:hing rain and a storm feet above sea level -fore­weren't taking any chances. suqw with waves over 6 feet casters were expecting a The Hed Cross reported about high. storm surge of 7 to 10 feet 500 people were taking 
Midrnel Loehr. operations would likely coincide with advantage of its shelters chief for the State Emergency high tide, a combination that around the state, dozens of Operations Center said there could r:ause particularly bad flights were canceled at was some flooding in south­flooding. Tampa International Airport, west Florida. but no serious Gordon's weakening though and the Tampa Bay Devil injuries had been reported. the day was due to a combi­Rays baseball game with the 
"We've already gotten calls nation of fac• Oakland A's from Charlottr. County saying tors, said Hugh was called off.
"The circulation 
they've got houses on the Cobb, a meteo­"Right now,
center is getting 
coast where you open the rologist at the there are a lot fronl door the water's coming National close to land, plus of people who in, you open the back dour Hurricane it's pulling in dry air just wanted to water's going out," he said. Center in Miami: iflave," said
from the Gulfof
Wind gusts of 60 mph were "The circulation Margaret reported in this rustic fishing center is getting Mexico ... " O'Brien-Molina, town about 100 miles north of close to land, a Red Cross Tampa as the storm plus il's pulling spokeswoman.
Hugh Cobb
approached. Gordon's top in drv air from "They wanted 
meteorologist
sustained winds Fell from 75 the · Gull' of to try, but these mph early Sunday to about 70 Mexico and bands come in mph by late afternoon, just southeastern again and the below the 74 mph threshold U.S." trees start bending and the for a hurricane. There was also a threat of rain gets really. really stiff." 
About 200 Florida National isolated tornadoes, forecast­Evacuations were ordered Guardsmen were deployed to ers said. for low-lying areas and help in flooded areas, and At least one tornado was mobile home parks in Citrus schools and roads were closed reported by Sunday evening, and Taylor counties north of in several coastal cities. in Palm Beach County. the Tampa. and five counties ­
"We 're seeing now waves of National Weather Service Pinellas. Hillsborough. up to and beyond 6 feet, and said. Manatee, Hernando and the water is continuing to rise Levy County Sheri ff' s Pasco -were under volun­and coming over the road at deputies had ordered non­tary evacuation. the docks area," Cedar Key residents on Cedar Key to In low-lying Dixie County, Mayor Ileath Davis said as the clear out by Sunday after­just north of Cedar Key. storm came ashore about noon. Two hurricane watch­emergency management 
8:15 p.m. EDT. ers from Atlanta had hoped to director Arthur Bellot said 
The storm knocked out elec­watch the storm's approach. most of his county's 13,000 tricity to much of the city and "We have been chasing hur­residents "are as ready as pounded the island directly in ricanes for about 15 years." they can get." 
White House celebration applauds Indian leader 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
President Clinton threw a lavish official dinner Sunday for Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and as glass­es clinked. 
the lead­e r s praised each other for forging a new friendship to replace the rocky 


re Iation • Clinton s h i p between the two nations in recent years. 
In contrast to the cold shoul­der given last week to the mili­tary ruler of India's nuclear rival. Pakistan. Clinton invited Vajpayee lo a South Lawn Pavilion tent filled with fall fruits and tables adorned with gold-base plates, cream china and gold candles. 
Nearly 700 guests, including many women wearing tradi­tional Indian saris of red, orange, pink and green. attended the largest official dinner of the Clinton presiden­cy to honor a single visiting dignitary. 
Only a NATO summit dinner for 19 heads of state was larg­er. 
As guests sat under crystal chandeliers hanging above tables bedecked with hydrangea. Clinton did not 
mention his worries over a potential nuclear confronta­tion between India and Pakistan. But in a welcoming speech and toast, he told the guests that with both countries facing terrorism, "the simple lesson of all this is, if we're all in the same boat together. we must find a way to steer together." 
"With your leadership we have built the strongest, most mature partnership that India and America have ever known," tho president said. "Its success will be our success together. India and America can change the world." 
Vajpayee responded that it was a tribute to Clinton. who visited India earlier this year, "that the manner in which we approach each other is being fundamentally transformed. This year, our two nations reached out to each other as never before." 
"We have. I believe. created a framework of dialogue and engagement that will stand the test of time." ho said. 
Vajpayee also praised first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton. who accompanied the presi­dent, for taking "the time out from the middle of an election campaign." 
As a parliamentarian for 40 years, he said, he was speak­ing "from the experience of many elections." 
After the toasts. the guests feasted on wild Copper River salmon with red kuri squash and rir:e bean ragout for a main course. 


Visit our Web site at ac.com 
This is a great time to be part of our firm 
as we create a new identity and seize new 
opportunities. 
If 


You know you're more than a piece of paper. You're bursting with ideas and insights that can change the world of business. And at Andersen Consulting, we want them. 
As a leading global management and technology consulting organization, we bring our insights and ideas to world-class clients to help them achieve profound change. After all, 
~ 1998 An<Jm,n Consultifl<I. All rights rcstnitd. An equal opportunity employer. 
it takes powerful ideas to align strategy with people, processes and technology. 
We'll provide first-rate training and guidance, and expose you to a variety of projects and industries. All of which builds a solid foundation for your future. 
Take this opportunity to talk to us about yourself, and most importantly, your ideas. 
Monday, September 18, 2000 The Obse,,-ver . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 9 
Leiberinan discusses politics with Broncos supporters 
Sunday promised health insur­presidentiaf candidate. tistical tie. Lieberman or his record. 
Associated Press 
ance for more than one million Lieberman. watching a tele­"It is going to be a battle right Tom Oldfield, 55, a member DENVER children in Texas left uninsured vised Broncos football game to the end. We know it's a bat­of the Pipefitters Union said he Democratic vice presidential under George W. Bush. the with workers at a suburban tle, but we're knew Gore's hopeful Joseph Lieberman on Texas governor and Republican Denver union hall, said closing," record, but 

Tickets 
available 
at 
the Morris 
Box 
Office 
and 
selected Majerek's Hallmark 
locations. 
******* 
TICKETS: 
$25.50 
& $20.50 
******* 
Charge 
by 
phone 
at 235-9190 
or 
1-800­537-6415 
M
\IORRI~ 
. ­
( J ', I i f~ 

sports• en/ellainmen/ • travel 
Morris Performing Arts Center 
Checlf out more about the ... 
Democrats have a chance Lieberman "It is going to be a battle knew little to win Colorado and will said. right to the end. We about the keep knocking on the Lieberman Connecticut
know it's a battle, but
state's door right up to criticized senator. 
Election Day. Bush's record we're closing." "I really felt "We feel some wind at in Texas, not­comfortable our backs now," he said. ing a federal with him,"
Joseph Leiberman
noting recent polls, judge's order Oldfield said
vice presidential candidate
including several in for the state to as Lieberman Colorado that show the insure more sat down gap between Bush and Al children. with the Gore has narrowed after Lieberman said the judge's con­crowd to watch the Broncos the two national conven­sent decree said more than 1.4 beat the Oakland Raiders :-n­tions last month. million children were without 24. 
A poll by Talmey-Drake health care, a figure that Tim Hogue, 91, a union mem­Research and Strategy Bush's supporters have chal­ber who still works. said he also for tho Denver Rocky lenged. was impressed with Lieberman Mountain News and "I was amazed by the reac­and his promises to do more KCNC-TV of 534 regis­tion of Governor Bush's about health care. tered voters questioned spokesman," Lieberman said. "I like the way he talks about statewide earlier this "He said Senator Lieberman's Medicare. I might need it some­month, showed 43 per-facts were wrong. lie said ... day," he said. cent said they would vote The fact is, it's only one-point­Lieberman later spoke at two for Bush while 40 per­t.wo million . . . Give me a separate fund-raisers at a cent said they would vote break," Lieberman said. downtown hotel. including a for Gore. Lieberman used the opportu­$1,000 a person reception that 
With a 4 point margin nity to introduce himself to 250 drew about 250 people and a of error. the poll puts the party and union officials. many $5,000 a plate dinner that race in Colorado at a sta-of them unfamiliar with attracted about 60 supporters. 
Bush to push do01estic agenda 
Governor Bush," spokesman senting a new stage in devel­
Associated Press 
Ari Fleischer said Sunday, opment -from birth to conceding that they have retirement, Fleischer said. 
WASHINGTON been migrating to Gore. It will begin on Monday George W. Bush, strug­Fleischer 
with a visit to a hospital in gling to stem Al Gore's said that Little Rock, Ark., where 
steady advance in the polls. Bush had Bush will stress his plan to 
will spend this week in bat­closed the double the child tax credit tleground states promoting gender from the existing $500 to 
his domestic agenda, with an gap before $1,000. He will also stress emphasis on issues deemed and could this proposal at an appear­do it again ance in Kansas City, Mo.
important to women, a cam­
paign spokesman said by focus­On Tuesday, after appear­Sunday. ing on his ing on Oprah Winfrey's syn­
Bush

"We think women ... are programs dicated talk show in 
going to come back to for educa-Chicago, Bush will focus on tion, tax breaks for children school safety issues in the and Social Security changes. Chicago area and in 
Since the end of the Lexington. Ky. Democratic convention, Gore On Wednesday. he will has erased Bush's nation­campaign in Pennsylvania ­wide lead and has pulled a state he has been back to ahead in some polls, includ­repeatedly -on his propos­
ing in some swing states that al for eliminating the so­Republicans had previously called marriage penalty in
Sacrament of Confirmation 
counted in their column. the tax code. On Sunday, the CNN-USA Thursday, after appearing Today-Gallup poll found in New York on the Regis Are you a baptized Catholic who has receiVed Gore's lead unchanged, with Philbin talk show, Bush will 
49 percent of likely voters talk about his plan of over­
their first Communion but has never been Confirmed? 
supporting Gore versus Bush haul Social Security to allow with 41 percent. younger workers to invest Conducted Sept. 14-16, the some of their earnings in 
poll had a margin of error or equity and bond markets. Are you wondering whether you need to be Confirmed plus or minus four percent­Then, in Florida on Friday age points. and Saturday, Bush will talk
to get married In the Catholic Church? 
Hoping to improve those about his plans for health numbers, on Monday Bush care for the elderly and pre­was embarking a six-day scription drugs. campaign blitz through Bush's focus on health was
would you lllfe to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre prime battleground states: being reinforced by two new Arkansas, Missouri, Illinois, ads, one from the Bush cam­
Dame students who are dedicated to growing in their faith? 
Kentucky. Pennsylvania, paign on Thursday and a Ohio and Florida. new spot by the Republican 
The campaign on Sunday National Committee, called also released a 16-page "Notebook," that was airing booklet called "Blueprint for in battleground states begin­
It's not too late to join the the Middle Class" outlining ning on Monday. 
Conftnnation Preparation Program! Bush's plans. Local Republicans were It will be distributed at planning news conferences campaign events and is to promote the new RNC available on the campaign's spot, which asks viewers to Web site, www.georgew­compare the Bush and Gore
Siegfried Chapel 
bush.com. plans for prescription drugs. on Tuesday, Sept. 19th "People can easily flip It presents Gore's plan in through it and see what the its worst possible light: "Al
at 7:00 pm 
governor's agenda is," Gore will charge seniors a 
Fleischer said in a confer­new $600-a-year govern­ence call from Bush head­ment access fee. George quarters in Austin, Texas. Bus,? opposes Gore's $600
~~-rJ:~:g:::{ey, CSC or ' Q ~ ,·.. 
The Gore camp dismissed fee. an announcer says. it as a pale imitation of It never mentions the
An1v Sean1on at 631-3389 
Gore's recently released specifics of Bush's plan ­
or ~top by the office of Campus Ministry 
191-page detailed budget partly because he had 112 Badin Hall with any questions. plan. released no details about 
This week's trip was how much it would cost planned as a "metaphor of seniors or what benefits they life," with each day repre-would _get. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
BSERVER Monday, September 18, 2000
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
PO Box Q, Notre Dam<. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notr< Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING ElllTOR  8USINE.S-~ MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim Lane  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOII  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Christine Kraly  Brian Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Marcingly V1Ewrc11NT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARYS Eo1roR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
Al>VERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTFMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunvilk WEIi ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNfllOLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jnse Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OFFICF MANAGERIGENliRAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.. ,... . .................................................. 631-6927 ADVEIITIS!NG ..............................631-6900/8R40 
observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME.................... 631-454I BUSINESS OfflCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................63 !-5303 observcr.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 
observer.spom. J@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARY'S.... .........................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsnwr.nd.edu for daily updam of campus news, spons, features and opinion columns, as well as carroons. r.-views and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 

weekly student reviews
minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 

online fcanrres for spe· 
cial campus coverage
and rares ofprint ads 
about The Observer
archives ro search for 

!O meet the editors and
arcides published after 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem. daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverusements based on cement. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistan, Managing Editor and department editors. Commenrari~, lcrrers and columns present rhe views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint spact is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informarion. 
Qumiom regarding Obsm,trpoliries ,hou/dbe dil't!ct• ed 10 Editor in ChiefMilte Con11oliy. 
DILBERT 

Let us take a conservative, but critical view of ROTC's presence on campus. The correct question is whether Notre Dame's ROTC program meets the mini­malist standards of Catholic "Just War Theory" (we are not applying the more strict principles of Aaron Kreider pacifism that are also supported by 
Think,
the Church, though 1 

Question,
encourage readers 

Resist
to decide for them­selves whether paci­fism might not be more Christ-like). 
Thus we must study the program on campus and the larger military in which students must serve. Does this military follow Catholic Just War principles? By its structure, the military is a hierarchy. Individual soldiers or officers might be allowed to advise their superiors, but must ultimately follow orders or risk severe punishment. We cannot assume Notre Dame students will always be giv­ing orders and never following others', possibly unjust, orders. 
Ultimately the military is under civilian control, with the president serving as commander in chief. Unfortunately, look­ing at our current and past presidents it is safe to argue that while many espoused a Christian faith, few practiced it faithfully and in their failings they repeatedly violated and ordered Catholics serving in the military to vio­late the Just War principles (for instance, carrying out acts that would harm civil­ians). 
The same violations and orders to vio­late would be regularly handed down by the majority of officers who are not bound or do not care for these principles. At the center of the difficulty for a Christian to serve in the military is the fact that the military does not allow sol­diers to conscientiously selectively object to wars or specific battles within a war, thus making the practice of Just War Theory very difficult. Ifsomeone decides a war is unjust and refuses to fight as per the Church's teachings, then he or she must be prepared to face military discipline. 
Arc we complete pragmatic relativists, or are there some values that we hold as absolutes? Do the ends always justify the means? Are we free to violate the Ten Commandments and the teachings of Jesus and the Church just whenever we think some good might come of it? ls this what Notre Dame wants to teach stu­dents? 
I believe the issue is not whether there are times when the military does follow the Just War principles (a.k.a. "does good"), but whether there are times it does not. And if so, how often does it vio­late the principles? And how many Notre Dame students are we willing to train and encourage to join this institution where they will be practically forced to violate these principles? 
Why does Notre Dame continue to put our students at moral risk? Notre Dame is flush in funds, as our endowment just increased over 50 percent in the past year and is now over $3.5 billion. There is a way to work for peace without this risk of violating Church teachings. The choice is not simply between serving in the military or doing nothing at all. The ROTC program can be phased out and students can be trained and given schol­arships in exchange for working in non­governmental organizations doing eco­nomic development, conflict resolution, education, human rights, peacemaking and religious work. There are millions of soldiers in the world, but very few peace­makers. Ifyou are willing to die for your faith (and/or risk poverty, deprivation and jail) there are many options -for instance you could go on a short or long term delegation to Chiapas. Colombia, West Timor or Palestine, to name just four trouble spots. Instead of serving in the military, we can be just as productive eliminating the causes of war like eco­nomic injustice and engaging in nonvio­lent peacemaking. And by doing so we will not be serving in a profession that regularly violates Church teachings. 

This debate has only begun. A good place for our University to start moving towards compliance with the Church is for ROTC student<; to be required to take a class on the Church's teachings on War and Peace (Just War Theory and Pacifism). It will be very interesting to see whether our administration is willing to make this small step or will it instead continue its unquestioning acceptance of the Department of Defense curriculum. Additionally. it will be especially interest­ing to observe the military's reaction to a course requirement. As the military would not appreciate soldiers who fol­lowed their conscience and chose not to fight in unjust wars and engagements, I suspect the military would withdraw the ROTC program if a Catholic course on war ethics were required. So be it. 
One ofAaron's grandparents conscien­tiously objected and participated in Civilian Public Service during World War II and the other was exempt from fight· ing because he was a farmer. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"/ believe in the doctrine ofnon-violence as a weapon ofthe weak. I believe in the doctrine ofnon-violence as a weapon ofthe strongest. I believe that a man is the strongest soldier for daring to die unarmed." 
Mahatma Gandhi Nobel peace prize winner 
VIEWPOINT 
r'\IH£ Monday, September 18, 2000 \..Jl)SERVER page 11 
Defining abortion's biological realities 
I learned at a young age to never talk about abortion or politics. I also learned to never drink liquor after beer. But no matter how many times I regret it later, breaking either rule always seems like a good idea 
Joshua Kirley

at the time. I have never held a definitive 
Swift's

stance on this issue. Scratch Confederate that. l 've always 
held a definitive stance on the issue; it's just an ever­changing definitive stance. My con­viction never wavers. It's just the contemporary convictions I hold prove to be so capricious. What's important is that at every stage along the way, I've known that my current point of view was the most logical, the most moral and the most correct. Life experience and the 
innuence of friends and professors 
have caused the fluidity in this par­ticular ideology. 
Today, I've found a new station in the great abortion debate. Tolerance. It's not something I'm proud of. I fear that this recent onset may be brought on by aging, or dare I say, maturity. In any event, I have an understanding, not an agreement or appreciation, but an understand­ing for folks on both sides of that solid line. 
However, my understanding has limits. No matter how hard l try, there are people on the pro-choice side that I just don't get. Don't think I'm picking on the pro-choicer's bocause I don't get the militant pro­lifers either, but that's another col­umn. Back to this pro-choice faction. Now, people who say, "[t's my body, I can do whatever I want" seem kind of selfish and surely specious, but it's their opinion. They are expressing a principle and supporting it. I get it. Fair enough. 
It's the argument borne out of (no pun intrmded) and clouding the abortion debate that causes my con­fusion. When does life start? I've met a number of pro-choicers who justify their position with the fact that life begins at birth. Now, a former teacher told me that when you dis­agree with someone. you attack the idea, not the person. That being said, "Are these people stupid? I mean, what morons!" Now, I'm not going to cite the stages of pre-natal develop­ment because it's been done and to do so seems redundant. The evi­dence that "living" is taking place is painfully overwhelming. 
I don't believe in attacking women that have abortions. They are vic­tims, victims of situation ( even if it is of their own making). I cannot imag­ine the stress that goes along with that decision, the finality of the pro­cedure or the grief that surfaces in the future years for these women. Scorning them on their way into the clinic docs not go very far in easing the most difficult experience of their lives. 
I don't believe in attacking the peo­ple that defend these women's legal rights to have that abortion. Whether they believe they are fight­ing for the women's convenience or her personal rights, they are pas­sionate and dedicated. Fair enough. 
But for those who fight for abor­tion rights under the rationale that it is OK to terminate the existence of the non-living, it may be time to change teams. Tell me unborn chil­dren are not entitled to birth. Tell me a mother-to-be has complete autonomy in all matters of her body. Don't say that the zygote, embryo, 
fetus, baby or any post conception 
being is not yet living. 
To make such a ludicrous argu­
ment defies human reasoning, 
defies human physiology and under­mines the pro-choice position. If one makes the claim that life starts at birth in a marketing or propaganda effort to package their cause, by all means, play on. But, if you need to pretend that a being does not live until birth to justify the cause to yourself, come back to reality and get a new bumper sticker. 
For those who say life begins when the babv leaves the amniotic fluid and enters the external atmosphere, since when does life criterion depend on geography? A toddler who moves from Chicago to South Bend is no more alive. He may be more depressed and less culturally satis­fied, but his vitality level should remain fairly constant. Then there's the "birthday" crowd, claiming that we age beginning at the time we are born. A birthday recognizes the first day of birth, not the first day of life. Our culture decides to use this day in commemoration of age because it's easier to pinpoint and children would much rather listen to their folks tell the story about the day they were born (once a year, every year) than about the day they were con­ceived. 
Finally, handfuls of people point to the ability to sustain one's own life as the mark of a living person. Well, a failed abortion (third trimester) is a birth. (One might go so far as to call a failed birth an abortion). And as for the post-birth baby who no longer requires mom as a food source and means for survival, drop a one-week old off on an island and come back in a couple months. 
Basically, abortion is fine. I mean, the Supreme Court doesn't make mistakes. right? Keep lhings the way thev are. Fine with me. I'm tolerant. But do not market abortion in an unrealistic manner. Do not obscure the focus of an already over-compli­cated issue. Ifwomen have the right to murder an unborn baby because of professional. social or financial considerations, let it be. I'll go along. Let's just not pretend that something else is going on. Ifyou need to sus­pend biological reality to stomach your own ideology, maybe it's your foelings toward abortion, not toward reality, that need adjustment. 
Joshua Kirley graduated from Notre Dame in 1999, since then he has been a golf caddy in Chicago, a stand up comic in New York and a high school teacher in Florida. His column appears every other Monday. lie can be e-mailed at Mrkirley@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Presenting ROTC perspectives fairly 
I want to thank Pax Christi for hosting the Tuesday discussion: "A Way to Peace, or Peace is the Way? Catholic Perspectives on ROTC." It was a great way to hear a lot of important issues related to being in the military that people might not think about otherwise. Unlike past presentations on the issue, this presented differing perspec­tives more fairly. 
There was no ROTC-bashing, but rather expressed concern for those in the mili­tary. The two speakers -both friends studying theology, one in the US Marine Corps ROTC and the other in Pax Christi ­did a great job offering several points to consider. Among these are the following: If we don't use military force, what realistic alternative is available? Can ND remain a Christian community without studying ROTC's actions? How do Christianitv's val­ues differ from those of the military? Is it ever right to kill in defense of another? 
These are critical issues each person in the military must understand. The speak­ers and the small group discussion that followed provided an important piece of education on this issue. [twas great to see at the discussion students from ROTC who were eager to develop their perspectives on how they can best serve others. It was also great to see other students there from the community, trying to understand. As I cadet, I appreciated being thanked for the aim and dedication to achieve peace through the military. 
It seems there should oo more discussion from the last several centuries on this issue. Either way, this is a great step for­ward. Even though students from ROTC and Pax Christi may have different per­spectives, both seek peace. This unity should remain our focus. It is encouraging to know that this is just a beginning, that more and more students from ROTC will enter this discussion in the future, focused on service to God and to their country. In the end, hopefully we can all help bring about a more Christian, peaceful commu­nity here and abroad. 
Andrew DeBerry Sophomore Keough Hall September 17, 2000 


Saint Mary's College is renowned as an example of what college pride should be throughout the neighboring campuses and community. I was embarrassed to see our wonderful reputation tarnished this week­end when l attended the Belles volleyball game against Hope College. I was shocked to find the stands of our Angela Athletic Facility virtually empty. There were only eight SMC students and a handful of par­ents on hand. Why did the visiting team have more support than our Belles? 
It was a Saturday, there were no classes and it was on campus so transportation was certainly not an issue. Just two hours earlier I saw hundreds of members of our student body cheering the Irish onto their win against Purdue. And now I stood in an empty gym, our gym, while our women poured their heart and soul into trying to gain their first win. 
We are lucky to share in the tradition of Notre Dame, but we are privileged to be a part of Saint Mary's College and its tradi­tion. Why can't we show our athletes the same respect we show Notre Dame's? 
Saint Mary's athletes are some of the most incredible women you will ever meet. They devote countless hours every week in practices, games, meets and tournaments. They endure countless additional hours crammed into vans traveling to and from games. Our student athletes have classes, projects and activities just like the rest of us. Yet they find the energy to participate in their sport to the best of their ability. In so doing, they represent us on the field, on the court, during warm-ups, in competi­tion and when the game is over. 
We should support the athletic programs on our campus at least as much as we sup­port the athletic programs of our neigh­bors. I suspect our neighbors would agree. I urge you to support our athletes. Go to the soccer games, the volleyball games, the cross country meets and the basketball games. You will not be disappointed. Our women play with same intensity and heart of the best Division I schools, These women help define the standard of excel­lence for which Saint Mary's is known today. 
As a member of your cross country team, I know how much your presence, cheers and support mean to all of the ath­letes. We depend on you for encourage­ment and are thankful for all who attend our events. 
Nicole Prezioso sophomore Le Mans Hall September 17, 2000 

C 
s
en@ 
page 12 Monday, September 18, 2000 

Happy 75th bIf• 
By MOLLY McVOY Scene Writer 

The most visible building on Saint Mary's campus is cel­
cbruting ils birthday this month. 

LeMans I !all. constructed in September of 1925, will cel­
ebrate its 75th anniversary during the week of Sept. 25. 
"I think LcMans is a very friendly place." said Sara 
Scalzo, the ,_,\Mans' hall director. "It's very attractive for 
students to live in. I don't quite know what the draw is, if 
it's the nicn rooms or thn fact that it's the centnr of cam­
pus." 

LcMans, in il'i long history, has been home to just about 
,wery aspect of a Saint Mary's student's lifo. 
In the 1mrly years of the College, the building housed the 
dining hall, a chapel. tho library -along with the student 
rooms. 

Sr. Brn;i! Anthony, the dean of students from 1%1-1968, 
11xplainml that slw not only worked in LnMans -as many 

DOROTHY CARDER/The Observe· Times have changed, but, 75 years later LeMans is still one of St. Mary's foremost residence halls. 

current administrators still do -she also lived with the students in the hall. 
"It was a tremendous benefit," Anthony said. "You n>ally got to know the students. If they had problems. they knew who to talk to." 
Anthony said that she especially enjoyed being with the students during the political turbulence of the 1960s. 
"During the national turmoil in that time, I really loved being with the students," she said. 
Anthony also explained that during her term. the Sisters of the Holy Cross served as "dormitorians," serving a similar function to today's resident advisors. They lived with the students and were there to serve their living needs. 
LcMans provided all a student needed during her time, and that, she feels, made the experience of living there a completely unique one. 
"LeMans was where you livP.d and learned," Anthony said. "Everything you did was in that building." 
The building was constructed during Mother Pauline's term as president of the College, the same time that Holy Cross Hall was built. Anthony feels it was Mother Paulinc's dedication to a complete edu­cation that made LeMans what it is now. 
"I think it is bPcause Mother Pauline, who was the great builder of lloly Cross and LcMans, was a great educator who believed every service should be avail­able to the students in one building," Anthony said. 
The design for the building camr, from across 'U.S. 
31. J. Maurice Carroll, a 1919 Notrr, Dame graduate, dr,signed LcMans hall. 
Although the library and the dining hall are now in separate buildings, both administration and student<; still sham the building, a uniqur, characteristic of the hall. 
"I think one of the things that is unique about LeMans is that I've never been in a school where the 
administration and students are housed togethr,r," Scalzo said. 
"I loVP living in LeMans." senior Rachel Deer, the LcMans hall president, said. "LeMans is tlw hub of cam­pus. Its what everything focuses on. IL rarrins with it that spirit of pridP." 
Thr combination of studtmts and faculty, Pither living or working together. is sornPthing every generation or LeMans' rnsidents have enjoyed. 
During tJw 1970s, Marian McCandless, the namesakP ol' Saint Marv's McCandless hall. lived in J,eMans with the student..'i."Linda Holtcamp. a 1974 graduate, appreci­atrid tlrn fact that McCandless wanted to spend her last years with the students. 
"It was so nice that she wanted to live with thr, girls," lloltcamp said. '"I remember that one of my professor"s wives wa'i her nursn and took carp ol' lwr during tlw day. It was great that tlw school could accornmodatP her." 

Tlw building has se1m major changes to iL<; appcarc111cP since its construction in 192:i. It. did undorgo IIH\JOr reno­vations in 1993. but looks much as it did whim l\1otlwr Paulirw had it c·onstructPd 
In addition to the combination of students and adminis­tration, many residents of LcMans give the history.and agf' of tlw building as masons for tlwir choicP of n•sidPJ1''". 
"I walk through all thesP rooms and tlw oldrrnss rnak;•:, it homier," Scalzo said. 
As part of thc 75th anniwrsary CPl1\bration, tlw hall council has planned a time capsulP rnmpilat.ion and a sp1·­cial mass. to be conducted during the week of' Sept. 2:i. 
-=====--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=-==-============================================--~=-=-=-=-=-=------_-_-_-_ 

Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
~ "Vertigo." Directed byAlfred llitchcock, AnnenburgAuditorium. Snite Museum. ?p.m. ~ Ramiro RodriguezExhibition, 230 McKenna Ifall, all day. Friday  ~ Ramiro RodriguezExhibition, 230 McKenna Hall, all day. ~ Campus Bible Study,Badin Chapel. 7 p. m. Saturday  ~ Lecture Series: Notre Dame's Female Leaders Speak on Areas of Personal and Professional Development for Women, admission fee: $2, South Dining Hall HospitalityRoom. noon. Sunday  ~ Proust's Reinvention of the Novel: by William Carter, Annenburg Auditorium, Snite Museum, 4:30 p. m. ~ Acousticafe: LaFortune Student Center, 9 p.m.­midnight.  
~ "Time Regained, " directed by Raoul Ruiz. admission: $2, Annenburg Auditorium. Snite Museum, 6:30, p.m.  ~ Lecture: "The Pap_acy in a Time ofCrisis: Pope ~ Lipizzaner Stallions Show, Joyce Center,Pius XII and World War 11," Hesburgh Library 2:30 p. m. For ticket information, contact the Auditorium, 9 a. m. Notre Dame ticket office on the 2nd floor of the Joyce Center. ~ "Asian Culture and the Biblical World," Lecture by Seung Ai Young, Notre Dame Room, Lafortune Student Center, 1:30 p.m. ,  

-------------------------------------------------------, 
NSIDER 
OTHE 
Monday, September 18, 2000 BSERVER Notre Dame vs. Purdue 


MEG KROENER/The Observer 

Purdue's defenders try, in vain, to get a hand on Nick Setta's (right) field goal attempt as time expires in the fourth quarter. Setta's kick sailed through the goal­posts and sent the Irish soaring to a 23-21 victory and No. 16 ranking in the AP poll. 
Irish overcome last-second jinx in win 
By BRIAN BURKE Spom Wrirer 
Gary Godsey seemed neither stu­prised nor impressed when Notre Dame's first-time starter at quarter­ba1:k was told he completed one more pass than Purdue's lleisman hopeful Drew Brees in Notre Dame's last sec­ond 23-21 win over Purdue Saturdav. 
"I did'? Wow, sweet." Godsey s·aid nonchalantly. 
Pr,rhaps that unexpected statistic simply did not stand out among the othtcn unusual events in what was uvrrall a strange win for Notre Dame {111 Saturday. The Fighting Irish scorPd 17 points capitalizing on Purdue mis­tahs that includ0d a blocked punt tbat set up a Godsey touchdown run, a 60­vard interception rnturn for a touch­down and a botched fake punt attempt that put '\fotre Dame in field goal range. The lield goal was one of three f'or l'\ick Setta. 
, Godsey atLempled three more passes than Brees, although Purdue signifi-
Notre Dame turns Purdue blunders to its advantage 
cantly out rushed Notre Dame. Nevertheless, the 22 passing attempts for the Boilermakers (compared to 43 running plays) was something Purdue head coach Joe Tiller apparently regretted after the game. 
"That's a surprise to us. We would like to throw the hall a little bit more. I think we would have except we had some success running the football todav," Tiller said. "We ought to be happ·y with the way we ran the ball. I can tell you this right now, that's not what we want to do, we want to win football games, so as far as we're con­cerned we ran the football too much today." 
Notre Dame emerged with the win because thcv did not ask Godsey to have a spectacular game. The Irish put Logetht>r a simple offensive package that plar:ed the burden on proven play-
player of the game 
Nick Setta 

The rookie kicker hit three of four field goals, including the gameu:inner. He also was two for two on points after touchdowns. 
ers to perform. Godsey came through when he had to, orchestrating the final drivP. for the game winning field goal, but his biggest role in the victory was probably avoiding the type of huge mistakes that plagued Purdue. 
"You've got to give No. 14 [Godsey] credit, " head coach Bob Davie said. "It was a limited game plan, we let them play us in a box a little bit, kind of by design, hut he found a way to get us down there and get a field goal at the end of the game. Offensively it wasn't real creative, and I didn't think it needed to be real creative with the way we wern playing defense, and we gave ourselves an opportunity to win the game." 
As was the case in last week's loss to Nebraska, Notre Dame's special teams continued their 180-degree turn­around from last season. Setta's clutch 
quote of the game 

"A lot ofpeople might not believe in us, but we believe in ourselves. We know what we 're capable of, and we showed it today." 
Joey Getherall Irish wide receiver 

game winner should not overshadow his other important field goals. After Purdue's fake punt debacle, the offense squandered an opportunity to go up 10 points, but Setta still made good on a 32-yard field goal. Other than his one miss, if the Irish got close, they got points. 
Defensively, holding Drew Brees to only 221 yards passing translates into keeping him in check. Vinny Sutherland managed to stretch the secondary, but Notre Dame's defensive line put more pressure on Brees than last year's game in West Lafayette. 
"I love the way we play [defense]. the style we play," Davie said. "They got us in some man-to-man situations, took advantage of it, but there were some pretty good throws and catches too. You've got to give them credit." 
Just thA samA, the Irish deserve some credit of their own. The memo­ries of last year's clock management blunders was replaced on Saturday by a kick that sailed just inside the right upright and sent Brees and the Boilermakers back to West Lafayette in defeat. 
stat of the game 
two sacks 

Notre Dame's defense sacked Drew Brees twice. The Purdue quarterback was only sacked eight times all of last year. 
-· ---~----­
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September I8, 2000 
report card 
B 
quarterbacks: CodsPy compl~ted mor11 passPs than Purdup's BrPes. Ile had lrnubl11 finding n\ceivers, but D,tvic 
didn't 1-,rive him many chanrns. lie> ran tho oflt:,nsr well enough for a'\,\'.' 
running backs: Th(' Irish only total<'d 7S yards on the ground. despit<' 34 atlPmpts. The first two touchdowns canw without a singln first down. That's won't win many football ganms. 
B+ 
receivers: (;ivens had a big day. and his 4 I-yard n,cc•ption was clutch. Wlwn thP throws wnre good, the 
rec1iivPrs came through 

offensive line: Although c;odst\Y wasB+ slow out of t.h,1 box. the !irrn knpt him rnvPr1•d long Pnough to get tl10 ball off !'Xr:Ppt for two sacks ailowed. 
defensive line: l'urdufl's offonso was No. 2 in thn nation until Saturday. NotrP Danrn·s d1•r,,11sive line sent l'urduP home in shame. holding it to 21 points and sacking Brees twice. 

A-
linebackers: Harrison came through with 12 tackles, and Boiman and nmunan again sloppt~d tlw opposing 
offt•nsP with kr,y plays. 
defensive backs: Walton scored on his 
A 
ser.ond int1•rcPption in two WI\Pks. 
Thn ser.ondarv /'on:,·d Brnns inlo a 
poor pPrformiu1<:1• and all bu! climi­nat,•d him from IIcisman ronl!intion. 
special teams: This used to be what 
A 
lost games /'or th,• Irish. No lonw~r. 
Setta srorPd 11 ol' the team's 2:1 
points. Earl blocked a Purdue punt. 
B+ 
coaching: Davie used his timeouts at opporturw timns. IIn should have railed for GodsPy to throw morp early 
in tlw ganw to g,it his eonlidcnn1 up. 
3.37 
overall: Dol'ense and spedal teams wern again the high­light for the Irish. Offe>nse n1•f'ds to improvf'. 
adding up the numbers 
yards on Shane Walton's 

6o 
first-quarter interception return tor a touchdown. 

3 
number of field goals made by Nick Setta. 
number of passes completed by 
rookie quarterback Gary 
Godsey, one more than 
14 
Purdue's Heisman candidate Orew Brees. 

time remaining in the game when Nick Setta
:00 

kicked the gamewinning field goal. 
number ol consecutive wins over Purdue in Notre Dame 
12
Stadium. 

number of total yards on offense by Notre Dame, 
the fewest since a 1998 loss to use. 
236 
number of weeks ii took the Irish 
3 
lo beat two ranked learns, the fewest since 1990. 

number ol yards on Gary Godsey's rushing touchdown, the first of his career. 
INSIGHT 


What a difference a year makes. 
In '99. Notre Dame always made one mistake too many, lacked the confidence to take it all the way or got stopped one yard shy of the end zone. The Irish never seemed self-assured enough to put games away. Nine games were decidP-d by IO puints or less, and seven of those times, Notre Dame came up on the short end. 
Near the start of all last year's troubles. Notre Dame lost to Purdue as thR clock ran out in a case ol' poor lime management. Well. the Irish have come full circle. 
After falling one defonsive stop short of sending thn 'l luskers tum­bling from their coveted No. 1 posi­tion, the Irish team said. "No more." It refused to succumb to its critics N a seemingly countless multitude that left the Irish off thf' Prnseason Top 25 and handed its game tickRls to Nebraska fons. The skeptics could think what they iikr,d; the team knew better. 
"A lot of' pMple might not believe in ui,, but we believe in ourselves," Notre Dame flanker Joey (;elherall said. "A !ot or people were counting us crnl. We know what we're capable of, and we showed it today." 
And with the new positive attitude, 

Kathleen O'Brien 
Associate Spvrts Editor 
the chips began piling up on Notre Dame's side of the poker table. This year, it was Purdue that crumbled in the linal minute under Notre Dame's defonsive pressure, its own players' errors and a slew uf penalty calls. 
"I knew we weren't going to Jose," quarterback Gary Godsey said. "I looked at all the guys and said, 'We're not going to leave the field second."' 
The demoralizing events of the past week -losing quarterback Arnaz Battle to a broken wrist and captain defensive end Grant Irons to a shoulder injury and ending up on the losing side of an intense over­time baltle -would have sunk the hopes of last year's Irish team and doomed it to defeat. 
But head coach Bob Davie and thfl team's captains were prepared for tlrn unexpected. Instead of looking at the roadblocks as a dead end on the route to success, the Irish chose to think of it as a detour. They brought in tlrn backup crew and drilled into it a sense of bravado, managing to stay one step ahead of disaster. 
With a self-assured Irish squad. the 2000 team wouldn't suffer the same fate as that of 1999. 
While the clock expired on Notre Dame in last year's game against Purdue. this year. the game-winning field goal came just beforn the end of' regulation. 
VVhen the '99 speciat teams squad stepped onto the fif'lld. Notre Damp fans looked on it as the kiss of death. This vear, whether it's Nick Sctta nailing a field goal, Glenn Earl blocking a Purdue punt or Julius 

Jones running a kickoff back 100 
yards f'or a touchdown, special 
teams are Notre Dame's salvation. 
Unlike last year's defense, which gave up 40 poinls against an unranked Stanford squad. this year's defense held the nation's No. 2 offensive team to 21 points. 
Instead of continuing last year's string of turnovers, Notre Dame cap­italized on Purdue's fumble and interception to get the victory. 
It all boils down to confidence. This year's Irish havn it. Last year's didn't. 
"I think it's r.onlidence, and every­body's just more hungry," junior linebacker Hocky Boiman said. "Every timP we're out tlrnre, wp'vc got something lo prove. W1:'re on a mission." 
The 2000 Irish clearly ont<'rcd the year as underdogs. Naysaynrs pro­dieted thi1 Irish would stumblP to a 1-4 or even 0-5 start against a bru­tal early slate of oppornmts. 
Once Notre Dame sent Texas A&M home with its tail tucked between il'> legs and nearly knocked Nr.braska off its throne, people started to gain the confidence in the Irish that tlrn players had all along. But when it became clear that Battle would miss at least six weeks of play and Irons was out for the season. fans again wrote off Notre Dame's chancns for success. 
They underestima(ed the force of' thn "Fight" in the Irish. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe 0bserr:er. 
Monday, September 18, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Setta turns special teams into positive for Irish 

during the same day, finishing By NOAH AMSTADTER among the top runners in a A.s.sisram Sport, Edito1 grueling three-mile race 
before a Saturday af'ternoon 
Tlrn vrar was 1994. The event was the football game. Pop Witmer eighth-gradR nalhmal cham­"The next thing you knew pionships in Daytona Beac-h. Fla. ThP he's getting driven by his dad game remaincid dose until the flnal min­and walking on the field 10 or ulns. tlw tnam rrom Lockport. Ill., hang­15 minutes before we get ing with th.-boys from St. I .ouis. going." said Brad Kooi. 
In Uw fin,d minutes. Lockport scored to Lockport's football coach. "He pull within one point. In Pop Wan1f'r. a wouldn't even hesitate. He'd point-al'trr kirk is worth two points. Up come bark and say his leg camr the kicknr and placed the ball foels fresh." through tlrn upright.s for tbP national Setta feels that his dedica­championship. tion to both sports ultimately 
Ilis name'? paid off in giving him more 
Nick Setta. energy to dev_ote to his kirk­
Saturday's game-winning 38-yarder ing. 
was nothing nf'w for thP sophomorf' play­''I'm abll~ to kick a lot ing in his lirst Sl'ason, who ha."i been pil­more," he said, "I have the ing up athlf1tic accolades since before ability to do a lot of the kick­high school. Y0t ever the star, Setta puts ing and not really get tired." tlrn team bol'orn himself. While Setta r.ompeted in 
.. llr.'s always bmm a team player." said sports year-round at sophomorn Becky Lyman. who attended Lockport, he always f'ound grammar school with SeUa. "He's always time lo practice his kicking. had confid<-ncc in his abilities. but he's "There were times that mv 
worked hard to gel there." kids and I would walk out to It was this unflappable confidence that the football field to play so impressed Irish !wad coach Bob Davie. around. and he'd be out there "J remr.mber the first time I met him. kicking with his dad and his whrn Im walked in what a confident -brother," Kooi said. "It didn't almost bordering on arrogant -kind or happen once, it happened all guy he was." Davie recalled after the time. You'd head out Saturday's game. "I spent tvvo or three there in the summertime, in hours over at that high school and every­the spring during track sea­body said what a lremendous competitor son, and he'd be working on 
lw is." it." 
Grnwing up in Lo('kport -a working­Setta's dedication paid off in rlass town southwest of' Chicago where record-breaking fashion while high school sports is often the forus of the at Lockport. During his sopho­community -Setta's athletic talents more season, Setta booted a emergPd early. His freshman year he 59-yard field goal. by far earned tlrn position of starting kicker, but Illinois's state record. The had morr than just football in mind. next year. Setta hit the 
SPlla also Pnwrged as one of the top uprights on a 72-yard attempt rurnwrs on the Porters' cross-country in a playoff game, a kick Kooi squad. crnating an intr:rnsting conflict rlaims Setta. has made during whPn' SPtla r.ompPtcd as a member of practice. both teams during the same season. Setta's determination and lnnPdibly. thP rross-country team -experience paid off in the whirh competes for the state title nearly form of a. scholarship offer PVl\ry season in Illinois -adjusted their from Davie in February of his practice schedule so that Setta rould kick senior year. After sitting out lield goals after school before running as his freshman year behind Jim much as 40 miles per week in the Sanson and David Miller. Pvening. Setta performed well enough 
..Those guys rnalized thf' situation I was in this fall's camp to earn the in. the possibility of winning a state nod at starting kicker, a deci-As the clock ticked down with the game Davie then looked at his kicker, playing championship," Setta said. "They made sion that Davie claims was not an easy on the line Saturday afternoon, Davie in only his third collegiate game, andthe sacrificp of waiting for an hour and a one. 
recalled the confidence he sensed back in marveled at his confidence. 
half or t,vo hours until I was done with "David Miller's a good kicker," said that office in Lockport. He looked at his "There was no doubt in his eyes that he f'ootball. It was a big sacrific1\ for them Davie. "It was a gut feeling about Nick young kicker and simply said, "This is enjoyed that moment," Davie said. "He and I really appreciate it." Setta, her.ause he is so confident. He what you came here for." was looking forward to that moment." 
Sntta even competed in both sports doesn't get rattled." 
-

scoring summary & stats AP poll 
scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total scoring team record points Purdue 0 14 a 7 21 summary -••·· team r:&rd ·'r)oi'nts 1 Nebraska 2-0 1,747 Notre Dame 14 3 3 3 23 1st •· 1 ska _ 2f0 1.456
2 ~st-ta ·3:0 t424 ··.
2 Florida State 3-0 1,723 N!J -12:21
team statistics ND PU
3 Florida 3-0 1,545 God soy 9-yd. mn , 3 -, Flo-Iida 3-0 1.~6 4 Kansas State 3-0 1,459 first downs 14 20 Sella kick, 7·0 4 . VhqinlaTel:b ·a-0-1,202
NIJ -3:42
rushes-yards

5 Virginia Tech 3-0 1,412 34-78 43-177 Wallon 60-yd inl. return 5 Kansas State a.o 1A92 
6 UCLA 3-0 1,408 passing yards 158 221 Setta kick, 14-0 & • ' w1"consiil ·aro 1\164' 7 Wisconsin 3-0 1,349 comp-att-int 14-25-1 13-24-1 7 3,0 1,074 8 Washington 3-0 1,331 punt return yards 2-56 1-8 2nd 3•0 -· 1,042+ it1lL
· 

1,126 2;0 964 ,,
9 USC 2-0 kickoff return yd.,; 2-34 5-93 I'll 13:02 9 ... , _U~ll .·.··• 
Lowe 6·yd. run 241' 874 ·.
10 Michigan 2-1 1,107 
11 Clemson 3-0 1,030 ;~:s~;:,:rr•'~;1:1:• 31if IJ1'0
punts-avg. yards 5-48.8 5-41.4 Dorsch kick. 14·7 
Jumhles-lnst 0-0 1-1 NI)· 11:24 
12 Miami (Fla.) 1-1 926 Setta 47-yd. FG, 17-7 .~ ;,l2ll!:l:f.01!~SIJ!fl, af,· na,, 
13 Tennessee 1-1 889 penalties-yards 5-23 10-78 /'// · 7:21 ·13.-T&n11tsme · M. ·6n 
14 Ohio State 3-0 733 time ofpossession 27:55 32:05 Sutherland 19-yd pa~s ;\.•·•.. Jf :'.· ,,1~1 (flp') P1 ij? ­
from Brees 

,, 15 ••. Texas ,;," i>1D
15 Texas 1-1 717 individual statistics Dorsch kick, 17-14 16 NOTRE DAME 2-1 705 passing 1 2•0' 549
·,::·,{1 .·'~~~:~1 · aio< ·48','
17 Oklahoma 2-0 629 
N!J -Godsey 14-25-1-158 PU -Brees 13·22-1-221 
18 TCU 2-0 531 3rd 1_8 o. NO.TRE ~,MIIE .. •.·• 
.. 2;1 477
rushing

19 Illinois 3-0 513 NIJ · 2:17 ''19 A • TCJJ . 241)' 420 
N!J -Jones 18-56, Fisher 6-18, Godsey 7•3, Lopienski 2·1, Sella 32-yd. FG, 20·14 , 2P i .-· an$tate
20 Auburn 3-0 445 .2~4 382 
21 Purdue 2-1 422 Howard 1·0 · 21\ · '\;[¥: /' ,2~1x .· ·•.· :r.. an, 
PU -Lowe 20-82, Brown 12-49, Brees 7-35, Sutherland 1-14, a,, 2Dli · ­
22 So. Mississippi M 380 22 ~ll~~l'II, ,.. 
23 Mi~higan State 2-0 274 Morales 1-8, Standeford 1-6 4th .,'.2$ ~ S4icl'i1i$$fPIPP! 1tf 270,<. ··•·'·, 24 Georgia M 194 receivinq I'll -3:39 24•.. · Georo1a< 14 184 
Sutherland 22-yd.

25 Mississippi Stale 2-0 128 ND -Givens 6-86, Jones 2-26, Hunter 1-15, Getherall 1-9, ·-·. 2~(: ·~1~~1,,tpt1JS(~tij · ~;b' ,to
pass from Brees

Holloway 1-8, Lopienski 1-7, O'Leary 1-5, Fisher 1-2 
Dorseh kick. 21·200/,her teams receiving lrotes: South CaroUna PU -Stratton 5-53, Sutherland 4-112. Morales 2-18, Brown 1-/1//). :oo ot,fµ/r}fJ1ms,T<J.c(!i,;ing,pot~i:-Alab,man1 ..·;i'\ 118, Oregon 58, Stanton! 25, Mississippi 23, Toledo 25, Dawson 1-13 Setla 38-yd .. FG. 23-21 SoiJ!h Carolina'41. tol~rado State.$3, Teias A&M 29;,M' 
22, Alabama 17, West Virginia 15, Texas A&M 14, leading tacklers ..... ~J~ti~i~p) t r~~~~~aiq,'¥e~I1Vi.rwn.i,. 23,.. < · ·.......> 
Arizona State 12, Air Force 11, Texas Tech 10, St3Jttotd 19; · ·· 11rAilf.otte\f$1 GeorgiaTech 13{
ND -Harrison 12, Weaver 9, Denman 8, Boiman 6, Driver 6
Pittsburgh 7, Georgia Tech 6, Colorado State 5. l!~!s lJ~~ 12,l?l,d?.~1 >. ~r~,,:~tate !, Arlzf>'n~ ~'. .i
PU -Doe 8, Johnson 7, Ayodele 7, Phillips 7, Mltrione 7 
O
l'HE 
Notre Dame vs. Purdue BSERVER Monday, September 18, 2000 
-
RISING TO. THE CHALLENGE 
Tlw Irish conLinucd their string of close games against the 
l'urduP Hoih~rmak1irs. this linw coming oul on top on the linal play of the game. Notrn Dame capitalized on SPVPral Purdue nrrors in the virtory, tlw lirst or quarterback Gary Godsey's career 
PETER RICHARDSONfThe Observer 

as th1! sophomorn played in his first game ever for the Irish. 
Quarterback Gary Godsey (No. 14) gets a pass off just in time as Purdue defender Craig Terrill (No. 92) moved in for the tackle. 


-

-





C s ­
Monday, September 18, 2000 page 13 

hday, LeMans! 


-

Life, legends and an American dream 
In 192,:;. LeMans u·as a hub <i campus. housing n1erything a Saint /v!ary's-student needed, including administration offices, residences and a dining hall. 
. 

pfzo_tos courtesy of SAINT MARY'S ARCHIVES 
Tlrnv w1!n' them f'or us in each and 11vPry"war involving Americans since 1<Jl 9 ... Tlwy were then~ l'or us to build up our communities, offer recre­ation and lo volunteer l1>adership . 
They were there to enhance the wel­fare of our chil­dren... 
Who am tlwy? The American Lcgionaires' Besides a stand at tlw t:ounty fair ,rnd a sponsor of soft­


ball lnams, Tlw  Scott little  
American Legion  
is un organization  
which serv,~s many  just a little  
purpnscs ­ 

including enhancing patriotism and education. And beyond that, they find time to go on hunting trips, start 
Memorable Moments... 
Reportedly, a LeMans RA was performing her rounds when a head appearedfrom within the wall. 
UMy room had windows covering two walls. I remember coming back from seeing 'The Exorcist' and the trees kept scraping the window. I was so scared I had to sleep next 
door.,, 
-

~ Linda Holtcamp, Class of '74 
nl remember LeMans being noisy. We could hear the elevator grates opening and closing outside our door and UJe zvould zvake up to the clicking ofheels down the uncar­peted hallway. ,, 
~ Jackie Schimizi, Class of'74 
-

51.BMans 
EssentiaJs 
holstered Chesterfield Sofas 
aught Iron I Italian W;-alnu 4 Italian Occasi 4 Italian Arni C 

Oal ffe .die Ligh ­side La 

bowling leagues. hold square dancing contests and even fish frys! For myself', J have found the Legion's greatest ethos to be Thursday Bingo Night. 
Within Post# 50's fabricated wood­en walls. one will find a smoky peace. a smoky harmony. A place to escape? For some, maybe. But on Thursday night, it becomes a place to deal with economic issues, make friends and act on long awaited hopes. 
The atmosphere and the anxious­ness of the attendants adds glamour to the smoky sausage air. Magic bingo wands sweep across the cards, pick­ing up the bingo chips with magnetic rims. Lucky Bingo statues come out of specially knitted Bingo bags. Like rounds of ammo, bingo dabber hol­sters are laid on the tables. 
And above them all stands a man who alone symbolizes liberty and Americanism. He is Hank, the 150 Bingo Sheet Man. Some know him as the Bingo Master. Others know him as Quiet Hank. If nothing else, a trip to the Legion is worth the trip to watch this master play with 150 bingo cards per game. No one knows how he does it. He lays down bingo chips where he may, but most of the game is going on in his head. When asked about i.t he responds coolly, "Bingo is a mind game." He is a man who inspires and liberates. Here is a man who may be close to realizing his full potential. And it is quite a sigh L 
The leg1rnds don't just stop at Hank. Just as Zeus onc1> dispelled the dark­ness of violence and evil, Ned makes his rounds among the tables with Bingo sheets for his famed Lightning round. Next comes Clara, and she has cookies! No, not chocolate chip or peanut butter -these cookies are yet 
another chance at a dream. A pull tab that may be worth up to $35! 
I cannot promise that you will win any money by attending Bingo Night at Legion Post# 50, but l can promise that anyone who does will have a renewed obligation to their communi­ty, a new found loyalty in Americanism and the desire to pro­mote peace and goodwill on earth. Happy dabbing. 
Fun facts: Bingo night is every Thursday night starting at 6:30 p.m. at Legion Post# 50, located about one mile north of Lincoln Way, on Bendix Road. The American Legion Headquarters is located in Indianapolis. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 18, 2000 
AMERICAN LEAGUE

-
Kapler stays hot as Kansas City defeats Texas 
Boston, which has lost two we can talk about playing the Rodriguez. whose eighth-inning remained three games behind 
straight after winning three in Yankees," Indians manager homer broke a 1-1 tie. "For us Cleveland. which· leads the AL-a row. fell 2 1/2 games behind Charlie Manuel said. "We have to come in here, a place where wild-card race.
KANSAS CITY 

Cleveland. which goes to our work cut out just lo get we've been embarrassed many "We came in here and had aGabe Kapler was 2-for-4 and Fenway Park for a Tuesday there." times and not played well, it's chance to win all three games,"drove in three runs, giving him night game followed by back­The Indians have taken two great to get three." Delgado said. "We didn't fall
13 HB!s in the four-game 

to-back doubleheaders. of the first three games in the It was the Mariners' first too far behind. We have to con­series, and the Texas Hangers "The whole season basically four-game series -outscoring three-game sweep in Baltimore tinue to play well and finishbnat the Kansas City Hoyals. 
comes down to one series," their potential playoff foe 29-since 1990, when the Orioles strong."
Kapler hit a two-run homer Scott Hatteberg said. 11 -and hold a half-game played at Memorial Stadium Delgado connected with two

in the first aftPr Frank 

"After you play those five lead over idle Oakland in the and Rodriguez was still in high outs in the sixth agai,nst Jesus
Catalanotto's solo home run 

games we'll see where we are," AL wild card race. school. Seattle. which came in Pena for his seventh careerand Hafael Palnrniro's single. 
manager Jimy Williams said. Despite the loss, the Yankees' with a seven-game losing slam. his second this year. 

Kapler added an HHI single in "We kind of control our own magic number for clinching the streak in Baltimore, outscored Delgado has 133 HBI, one shythe fifth after Palmeiro tripled. 

fate." AL East dropped to eight with the Orioles 27-4. of tho Toronto record set by
In 29 games since his 28­

Mlicki (6-11) gave up one run Boston's 5-4 loss at Detroit. "We're playing good, solid George Bell in 1987 and 
game hitting streak -the 

and left with a 5-1 lead after Finley (13-11) signed a $27 baseball," Seattle manager Lou matched by Delgado last year.
longest in the majors this sea­allowing doubles by Nomar million, three-year deal with Piniella said. "I don't want to It was Delgado's first homer 

son -Kapler is hitting .336 
Garciaparra and Brian Cleveland in the offseason in say anything about a sweep, since Aug. 28 at Anaheim.
( 39-for-1 16). lie has 4 7 RBIs .in 

Daubach in the seventh. part because of his success but it is nice to win three "It was good to see Carlosthe last 57 games. 
"I pul in my notes that's against the Yankees. The left­games here." come out of it." Toronto man­
Kenny Hogers t13-13) 

about the best I've seen him hander. who improved to 17 -9 Freddy Garcia won his fourth ager Jim Frcgosi said.
allowed two runs and seven pitch all year," Tigers manager against New York, was sharp, straight start and John Olerud "Hopefully, now that he's hithito; in seven innings to wi.n his Phil Garner said. but didn't need to be. hit a solo homer for the his 40th, he can get hot ... hot­

second straight start after 

llatteberg hit a two-run "There are certain teams I do Mariners, who won their !lfth ter."
-
going 0-4 in a six-start span. 
homer when he pinch hit in the well against and certain teams straight and increased their Chicago's lead in the AL.John WettPland got the last two eighth off Danny Patterson. I don't," Finley said. "The team lead to 2102 games over sec­Central was cut to 7 1/2 games
outs for his 34th save in 42 

and Jason Varitek hit an RBI I do well against happens to be ond-place Oakland in the AL over the Indians with twochances. 
single in the ninth off Todd the world champions." West. The A's, whose series weeks remaining. 
Texas added to its 3-1 lead 

Jones, who struck out Bernard By the time Ryan Thompson finale at Tampa Bay was post­
with two runs in the fifth. 
Gilkey to end the game with got New York's first hit with poned by Hurricane Gordon.
Catalanotto singkd and scored Twins 1, Angels 0
the potential tying run on sec­one out in the fifth inning. the start a four-game series in 
on a triple by Palmeiro who Brad Radke is well aware of
ond. Indians already led 15-0. Baltimore on Monday. 
his standing among the

scored on Kapler's single. 
Jones got his team-record Finley left early as Manuel
Hicky Ledee's single chased American League leaders for
39th save in 42 chances. John wanted to keep him available
Dan Ileichert (8-8). who gave Blue Jays 14, White Sox 1 losses.
llillcr had 38 saves in 1973. as an option to pitch in the sec­
up fivp. runs and 10 hits in If Carlos Delgado has his Radke pitched his fourth
"It doesn't mean a lot to a lot ond game of a doubleheader way. he's got a few more home career shutout, scattering eightfour-plus innings. He was try­of people, but it means a lot to against Boston on Thursday ­
ing to become the firsl Kansas runs to hit. hits to lead the Minnesota 
me and a lot to John Hiller and one of three twinbills in eight
City pitcher to get nine wins. Delgado hit a grand slam to Twins to a victory over the
the Tigers. I'm proud to be a days for the Indians. 
end a 17-game homerless Anaheim Angels. 
Tiger," Jones said. 'Tm just 
streak. reaching 40 homers for "I knew I was up there," heTigers 5, Red Sox 4 appreciative of the opportunity Mariners 3, Orioles 2 the second straight season as said. ''I've been up there for aUnhappy about leaving they've given me." 
The Seattle Mariners could the Toronto Blue Jays routed while."
Comerica Park with a four­
hardly have expected to win the Chicago White Sox. Radke (12-15) remained in a game split. the Boston Red Sox Indians 15, Yankees 4 three straight in Baltimore, a "I hit 44 last year and I three-way tie with Toronto's
headed home for their most 

With Manny Ramirez healthy city where they have long always try to top the previous Ke Ivim Escobar andimportant series of the season: and Yankee-killer Chuck Finley endured failure and disap­year." said Delgado, the first Baltimore's Mike Mussina forfive games against Cleveland. 
on their side, the Cleveland pointment. player in Blue Jays history to most losses. Philadelphia'sthe AL wild card leader. 
Indians could be a difficult So, when the Mariners post two 40-homer seasons. "It Omar Daal leads the majors"We have lo find a way to October opponent for New capped a three-game sweep of seems like the last couple of with 19.
win four out of five against York. the Orioles with a victory. their weeks, I haven't felt great at Radke, who walked one andCleveland." closer Derek Lowe Cleveland handed New York elation extended beyond the the plate. It's nice to get to that struck out four, got a break in
said Sunday after Boston's 
its second lopsided loss in three fact that they strengthened round number. Hopefully I can the sixth inning when a highcomeback foll short in a 5-4 days. as Finley allowed one hit their hold on first place in the finish up strong." drive by Mo Vaughn that mightloss to the Detroit Tigers. 
in six scoreless innings and AL West. Brad Fullmer hit a three-run have been a two-run homerDave Mlicki pitched four-hit Hamircz homered and drove in "From now on, every game is homer, Jose Cruz Jr. hit a two­instead hit a Metrodome speak­ball for seven innings and Dean three runs. paramount. every series is run shot and Tony Batista had er in right field and droppedPalmer hit a two-run homer for "We have to get there before huge for us," said Alex a three-run double as Toronto harmlessly for a single.
Detroit. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rbe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
-
Dad needs 2 tix to Stanford game! SPRINGBREAK 2001 SPRING BREAK 2001 -Jamaica, Kristin.you, me, London, Hello Fall Ckrosey@mindspring.com Hiring On-Campus Reps Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring Break!!WANTED SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, GO Campus Reps -2 Free Trips! Free
TICKETS 
2 ND/USC Tix+ Aifrare FREE!!! Meals-Book by 11/3. Call 1-800-I'm done. I have to finish some 
GOTO alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_stax Student Travel Services 426-7710 or sunsplashtours.com. homework. WANTED EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP-America's #1 Student Tour ND FOOTBALL TKTS MENT CENTER PAID &VOLUN-Operator SKYDIVE!! Dawg Hockey 2001 --get ready 289-9280 TEER OPPORTUNITIES Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas. Training Students for 35 Years 
Earn money and build resume Europe, Florida 1 Hour North ol South Bend Hey Kevin. Here's your classified. SELLING FOR RENT experience while interacting with 1-800-648-4849 GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS, INC. ND FOOTBALL TKTS delightful young children. The Early www.gospringbreak.com 1-800-351-6617 And Brad. And O'Malley. 251-1570 B&B lodging in alumni home for ND Childhood Development Centers at 
games. (219) 243-2628 or Saint Mary's College and the Looking for 10 enterprising students 92 Dodge Spirit Look out Mixed Doubles. Black VICTORY TKTS garyb@mvillage.com University of Notre Dame are cur-for part time computer work. Earn 4 cyl -auto -cruise Widow and the Avenger are on the BUY'SELL 'TRADE rentiy accepting applications from up to $4, 000/mo. 1-888-304-0414 low mileage -top condition loose. ND FOOTBALL ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE college students for part time Lv. Msg. 246-9784 232-0964 AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS employment positions. At ECOC-To Amy, Karen, and Jessica, www.victorytickets.com http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ ND, the two openings are for TTh You girls rock my world. 
email:mmmrentals@aol.com 7:30-8:30 a.m. and TTh 11:15 am Benchwarmers on Wednesday?
FOR SALE
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 232-2595 . -1:30 p.m. At ECDC-SMC, the -Jacqueline 273-3911 opening is for F 12:30-1 :30 p.m. If PERSONAL That Pretty Place, Bed and you are interested in applying, WANT TO BRING YOUR HORSE I am now starting the greatest clas-ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED Breakfast Inn has space available please contact Kari Alford, Program TO SCHOOL? SAGEBRUSH STA-slfieds in the world. 
A.M. -232-2378 for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms Director at ECDC-SMC, at 284-BLES IS THE PLACE JUST 25 Hello Kerry. Goodbye. 
P.M. -288-2726 with private baths, $80-$115, 4694, or Thayer Kramer, Program MINUTES FROM NOTRE DAME. Knott pool is the greatest sport in 
Middlebury, 30 miles irom campus. Director at SCDC-ND, al 631-3344, INDOOR RIDING ARENA That felt nice, didn't it? the world NO FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE Toll Road, Exit#107, 1-800-418-for more information and an appll-LIGHTED OUTDOOR ARENA AM. -232-2378 9487. cation. SECURED TACK ROOM I want to give a shout out to my Give it up for sucky D 
P.M. -288-2726 The Ear1y Childhood Development FLEXIBLE RIDING HOURS buddy Pat McGrath. Thanks for the 
I have 5 bedrooms for rent in my Centers are also looking for volun-CLEAN SAFE ENVIRONMENT support. Kay loves women BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TIX nicely-decorated private home for tee rs who enjoy young children. If FAMILY OWNED 
HOME & AWAY. Football weekends: less than 2 you would be interested in spending And how can I forget Cat. You are When will it stop blinking? 
(219) 289-8048 miles north of stadium, continental 2 hours a week reading children's SAGEBRUSH ST ABLES the greatest. No, you are!!! NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX brkfst included. Many happy repeat books, building with blocks. and BOARDING LESSONS HORSE-4 hot girls and I wasn't therel!!I NEEDED customers! Call Kim 277-8340. singing songs with children. please BACK RIDING Oh and Abby, you rock. I Still have 
contact ECDC-ND at 631-3344 or 55251 SAGE Rd. your key, Highest score to date • 52 MSU vs. ND football tickets bought TWO (2) ROOMS IN MARRIOTT ECDC-SMC at 284-4693. 219-232-3361 
and sold (219) 289-6048 COURTYARD MOTEL IN SOUTH Kate. Pat. are we having ritas The Voice wants a certain BEND AVAILABLE FOR PURDUE WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK AKC CHINESE SHAR-PEI PUP-tonight? Call me. Counterstrike star Need GA's: 4 Stanford, 2AF, 28C WEEKEND. Ski &Beach trips on sale now! PIES. Shots & wormed. Vet Chris 634-4751 CALL K. McCANN AT www.sunchase.com or call 1-800-checked. 11 weeks old. $400. It's good to see Manda Panda in Someone wanted Gargoyle and he Beeley. 1 @nd.edu 1-415-646-7535 SUNCHASE TODAY! 219-257-3942. the office again. couldn't blame alchohol. 
Monday, September 18, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Florida wins on controversial TD 
Stellar defense gives 
Two Tennessee defenders 
Associated Press 
crashed into Gaffney. jarring the ball loose. 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 

Line judge Al MatthewsFlorida coach Steve paused before raising hisSpurrier thinks the play arms to signal the touch­
could have been ruled either down. His call stood after a 
way. Tennessee is certain 
brief conference with referee
there was only one correct 
Al Ford. Matthews played on way to make the call: inr.orn­
the last Vanderbilt team thatplete. 
beat Tennessee, in 1q32Not that the Volunteers can "I had it long enough for it
do much about it. ·coach to be a touchdown." said
Phillip Fulmer said he ·will Gaffney, who finished with
speak Monday with Bobby 
six catches for 91 yards.
Gaston. head of officiating Tennesseefor the 
cornerback

Southeastern 
"I saw the ball fall. I'm Willie Miles
Conference. 
hit Gaffney

as he doPs not a ref What I think 
on the play.

every week doesn't maue,:,, 
"l saw theafter a game. 

ball fall."

I-IP wou Id not 
he said.
Willie Miles 

say Sunday "I'm not a
whether he Tennesse cornerback 
intends to file a protest. 
The play in question was a 3-yard touchdo,vn pass by Florida with 14 seconds left. 
The score gave the Gators  a  
27-23 victory Saturday in  a  
game that mulct well have  a  

bearing on the national championship. 
"Whether or not he had it, l don't know." ·Spurrier said Sunday. "Did he have it long enough? I would say if it was in the field of play it would have definitely been incom­plete. But in the end zone, you only need a moment." 
ft was a moment that could define a season. 
Before a Neyland Stadium­record crowd or 108,768, Tennessee was ahead 23-20 when Florida got the ball back at its own 9 with 2:14 to go. The Gators drove to the Tennessee 3. On third down. Jesse Palmer threw a quick pass to Jabar Gaffney just over the goal line. 
ref. What I 

t h i n k doesn't matter. The Gators won but the world knows about the last play. I thought they were going to overrule. I don't think they were sure.'' 
Tennessee bounce that pingpong back and forth all day. There were 140 other plays in the ball game that could have made a difference. We're not going to hang the game on one play or one official. It's done." 
Pulrner said he did not see the play unfold during the game. After looking at the film, he said hr does not think Gaffney caught the ball. 
The officials were not available after the game: 
if Tennessee does protest, it would be the second straight appeal involving the officiating crew. Vanderbilt protested the Sept. 9 game with Alabama. 
What is not in dispute is this: Florida is now the team to chase in the East in the Southeastern Conference. 
Florida (2-0, 1-0) moved up three places in the Associated Press poll to No. 3 on Sunday while Tennessee (1-1, 0-1) dropped two spots to No. 13. 
Spurrier 
acknowledged 
left tackle "I had it long enough for Tennessee 
J o h n had beaten
it to be a touchdown. " 
Henderson, the Gators in who sacked nearly every Palmer Jabar Gaffney category 
t W i C e Florida wide reciever except the 
agreed. 

"What saw was him not having con­trol of the ball," he said. 
Fulmer was clearly upset after the game. He interrupt­ed one question to wide receiver Cedrick Wilson about Gaffney's touchdown. 
"You're asking about the last touchdown? To me that's irrelevant," Fulmer said. "The guy called it a touch­down. It must be a touch­down. We sit here and 
final score. But the Vols had some fatal mistakes. 
Florida's Lito Sheppard ran back an interception 19 yards to give the Gators a 17-12 lead. And despite Tennessee's dominance on the ground -Travis Henry had 175 yards on 37 carries -the Vols had to settle for five field goals by Alex Walls. Three came after Tennessee was unable to convert from inside the 6. 
The Faces or Holy Cross 

Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C 
Awarded Congressional Gold Medal July 13. 2000 
"I want nothing else, have never wanted anything else, have never been anything else but a priest." 
ANSWER *­

THECALL '<!Y 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Stanford upset win 
Associated Press 
STANFORD, Calif. 
The Trench Dogs finally bit somebody. a freshman backup quarterback stole the spotlight. and Tiger Woods led the cheers on the sideline. 
It added up to an unforget­table victory for Stanford. 
While much of the college football world was sleeping, Stanford avenged a 52-point pounding in Austin last season by beating Texas 27 -24 Saturday night. 
The loss, just Texas' third to an unranked team under coach Mack Brown, sent the Longhorns (1-1) tumbling 10 spots to No. 15 in the latest AP poll. 
But the pollsters who went to bed well before the West Coast's final game was com­plete couldn't appreciate the surreal atmosphere and unlikely events leading to Stanford's victorv. 
"The game definitely had a sense of the bizarre. We didn't play well until the fourth quar­ter. ... The game was going in so many different ways, up and down. I'm sick to my stomach thinking about it," said Texas quarterback Major Applewhite, who shook off a bad night to lead two scoring drives in the final 10 minutes and give the Longhorns a brieflead. 
"I don't know how it hap­pened," said Stanford quarter­back Chris Lewis, who had thrown three collegiate passes before starter Randy Fasani was injured in the first quarter. "I just went out there and tried to complete one pass, then one more. I really have no idea how we won." 
However it happened, coach Tyrone Willingham called it the biggest victory in his six years at Stanford (2-1). Lewis, who threw for 214 yards and three TDs, drove the Cardinal 59 yards in 43 seconds for the winning points. 
DeRonnie Pitts caught a short pass and tumbled end­over-end into the end zone for a 15-yard score with 1:12 to play. setting off a celebration in Stanford's student section that was as wild as the Cardinal's srdate crowd ever gel'>. 

But Stanford earned its victo­ry with 50 minutes of solid defense. That wouldn't be especially noteworthy for most teams, but the Cardinal's defense was among the nation's worst a year ago and allowed 40 points to San Jose State last weekend. 
Willie Howard and his Trench Dogs -the catchy nickname for Stanford's under­achieving defensive front ­finally gave a performance worthy of their hype. 
"Nobody's given us respect on defense for a long time," linebacker Riall Johnson said. "I think we showed what we're all about this time." 
Howard, Stanford's senior defensive leader. led the way with seven tackles, and the Cardinal held Texas to 159 yards of total offense in the first three quarters. Howard and Johnson both made big tackles in the closing minutes to kill Texas' final drives. 
Defensive coordinator Kent Baer blitzed the Longhorns on almost every obvious passing situation, exposing a soft offen­sive line that also couldn't get Texas' running game moving. Applewhite was sacked five times -twice on Texas' final drive, which ended on downs with 33 seconds left -and was hurried countless others. 
After their dismal offensive night, the Longhorns may be wondering if even two quarter­backs are enough. Applewhite played poorly until the final minutes, while Chris Simms led one TD drive but couldn't do much else. 
The Longhorns also made two crucial special teams mis­takes. A personal foul penalty on a punt return kept Stanford's first TD drive alive, and in the third, Stanford's Emory Brock blocked a Texas punt, scooped up the loose ball and scored. 
Sophomores & Juniors! 
$CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE NOW! 
AF ROTC -Producing Leaders for the Air Force and Building better citizens for America 

Non-competitive Scholarships ­$17,480 annually, are available for select majors for sophomores and for ALL juniors! 
Don't waste a moment! Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
Monday, September 18, 2000 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Cardinals win after Cubs' Sosa drops ball in the ninth 
Associa1ed Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Sammy Sosa has won plenty of games with a home run. On Sunday. he lost one after a long run. Sosa's three-base error in right field allowed three runs tn scorn in the eighth inning and the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Chicago Cubs 4-2. 
Sosa dropped Edgar Rentt'ria's fly ball with the bases loaded and two outs, giv­ing' St. Louis its seventh win in a row. 
The Cardinals completed a four-game sweep of' the Cubs for the first time since 1963. St. Louis cut its magic number for clinching the NL Central to two over Cincinnati. 
"I ran like half a mile and when I got to the shadows I knew I was in trouble," Sosa said. "There's no excuse, I take the blame." 
Chicago has lost 11ve straight and15of17. 
Darryl Kile (19-9 l won his firth straight decision, allowing two runs and six hits in eight innings. Matt Morris struck out three for his third save. 
"It took a fluky play and some grinding by our offense. but that's what we needed to win," Kile said. 
The Cardinals trailed 2-1 in the eighth when Tim Worrell (3-4) struck out pinch-hitter Mark McGwire to start the inning. Later, with runners on second and third and two outs. Fernando Tatis received an intentional walk. 
Henteria hit a ny toward the right-field corner. and Sosa caught up to the ball after a long run. But the ball bounced off the heel of his glove. and all three runners scored. 
~The ball was tailing and it was really a tough play. 1 wish it had been scored as a hit," Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said. Cubs manager Don Baylor refused to blame Sosa. 
"!Je ran a long way for the ball and it hit him in the glove. It's just another way for us to lose,'' he said. 
Cubs starter Kerry Wood. coming off his first complete game since elbow surgery, allowed one run and two hits in six innings. 
"He didn't have his best stuff, but he competed." Baylor said. "He lert the game with the lead and should have gotten the win." 
Kile also praised Wood for a strong performance. 
"We weren't doing anything off him and I felt bad when they got the lead off me. He pitched a good game," Kile said. 
Shane Andrews led off the seventh with a first-pitch home run off Kile. Andrews· 15th homer gave the Cubs a 2-1 lead. 
The Cardinals scored their only run off Wood in the sec­ond on a sacrifice fly by Mike Matheny, with J.D. Drew strik­ing out with two runners on to end the inning. Wood struck out eight and walked six. 
The Cubs tied it in the third on Augie Ojeda's second home run of the year. 
Astros 5, Pirates 3 
Moises Alou hit his 30th homer and drove in four runs as Scott Elarton and the Houston Astros sent the Pittsburgh Pirates to their ninth straight loss. 
Pittsburgh's losing streak is its longest since a nine-game skid in 1985. 
The Astros completed a four­game sweep and finished 7-0 against the Pirates this season at Enron Field. Elarton (17-6) gave up a two-


to those 
who played. 
Congratulations to the following· MSU Ticket Raffle number holders 
319004 319166 319317 
319002 319195 319369 
VolceStream Wireless is setting a sizzling pace in the wireless industry! Our rapid growth and intelligent acquisitions have made us the hottest and fastest growing PCS provider in the country. In fact, we are the largest and only national GSM carrier, In terms of pops, serving over 220 million people. Don't miss this opportunity to join a progressive leader! 
PART-TIME INDIRECT SALES ASSOCIATES *"' Full Benefits*"' 
Work at selected retail stores to represent VoiceStream and sell VoiceStream phones. Through your effort you will also share information with the retail employees and indirectly train them on theVoiceStream and the GSM Network.You will be assigned I store to cover each weekend -rotating hours. We look for high energy and enthusiastic self starters with strong communication, customer service, and relationship building skills.Wireless experience a plus.Will train the right people. 
(JOB CODE: CB/ISA) 

For consideration, please indicate JOB CODE 011 resume and send 
co: VoiceStream Wireless, Attn: Doug Mark, 632.5 
f£":?£~:~~u, ,.¥e£¦ 
:~:or~~:Ee:pl!~::.ect Line.) We are an equal ~•. 

run homer to Abraham Nunez in the first inning before set­tling down. 
Elarton pitched eight innings. allowing three runs and eight hits. He struck out seven and walked hvo. 
Octavio Dote! pitched the ninth for his 14th save. 
Pittsburgh's John Vander Wal went O-for-4, ending his 16-game hitting streak. 
Alou hit a solo homer in the second. His two-run double in the sixth scored Jeff Bagwell and Richard Hidalgo and gave the Astros a 4-3 lead. Bagwell had walked and Hidalgo dou­bled off Dan Serafini (2-5). 
Alou added a sacrifice f1y in the seventh, giving him 106 HBls. 
John Wehner doubled and scored on Keith Osik's grounder as the Pirates took a 3-2 lead in the fourth. 
The Pirates went ahead 2-0 in the first when Adrian Brown led off with a single and Nunez hit an 0-2 pitch just insid8 the right-field foul pole for his first homer of the season. 
The Astros tied it at 2 in the third on an RBI single by Mitch Meluskey. Tim Bogar singled and moved up on Elarton's sac­rifice before Meluskey singled. 
Giants 5, Padres 1 
Jeff Kent went 2-for-4 with a home run and a triple as the San Francisco Giants, despite resting four regular starters. beat the San Diego Padres. 
Mark Gardner (11-6) allowed one run and four hits in seven innings to win his fourth straight decision, helping the Giants win for the 15th time in 18 games. He had missed his previous scheduled start because of fatigue. 
San Francisco, which began the day 8 1/2 games ahead of second-place Arizona in the NL West, lowered its magic num­ber for clinching the division to seven. At 89-59, the Giants have the best record in the major leagues, just ahead of the Chicago White Sox {88-59). 
With a trip to the playoffs pretty much secure, the Giants rested Barry Bonds, Bill Mueller, J.T. Snow and Rich Aurilia. 
Woody Williams (10-6) allowed four runs and eight hits in eight innings, struck out six and walked four. 
Kent tripled leading off the third. Ellis Burks walhd, Armando Rios singled in a run and Ramon Martinez hit a sac­rifice fly. 
Kent hit his 33rd homer lead­ing off the fourth, giving him 474 RBIs in four seasons, one more than Hall of Farner Rogers Ilornsby for the most RBIs in a four-year p(~rioa' by a second baseman. 
Kent was ejected in the sev­enth by plate umpire Tim McClelland following a called third strike. Kent, thinking it was ball four, jogged nearly all the way to first base. 
Russ Davis hit a run-scoring double in the fifth following Doug Mirabelli's leadoff single. 
Mike Darr hit an RBI single for San Diego in the sixth after Ryan Klesko's one-out single and a walk to Dave Magadan. Felipe Crespo hit an RBI double off Todd Erdos in the ninth. 
Phillies 6, Marlins 5 

There is no wall in sight this time around for Randy Wolf. 
The Phillies· left-hander 
pitched seven strong innings and Bobby Abreu hit his 24th homer to lead the Philadelphia Phillies to a victory over the Florida Marlins. 
"It was one of my strongest starts, physically, of the sea­son." Wolf said. "I re1t great and that's a far cry from hnw I f'clt last year at this point. I kind of hit the wall down the stretch last season. 
"It also shows that I did something right during the off­season, working out and get­ting stronger. It's paying off now." 
Wolf ( 11-7) allowed two runs and five hits, struck out five and walked none to win for the first time in four starts since Aug. 26. 
''I-le ·s a different pitcher than he was last year,'' Phillies man­ager Terry Francona said. "He has proven to be a good major league pitcher that's only going to get better. Randy's got a great outlook and he's starting to figure out how to be effective up here." 
Wolf had four 1-2-3 innings and retired 21 of 25 batters. 
"Wolf was real good," Florida manager John Boles said. "He changed speeds well and has a good fastball." 
Jeff Brantley came in with a 6-2 lead in the ninth and allowed an HBI single to Mike Lowell and a two-run double to Cliff Floyd, then walked pinch­hitter Andy Fox. 
Reliever Thomas Jacquez struck out Mark Kotsay, who was 10-for-19 before the at­bat, to end the game for his first major league save. 
"I was pretty pumped up," Jacquez said. "(Francona) just told me to get the out. That's it." 

.---------------------------------·~----·­
'l 
Good things came 


319028 319196 319397 319035 319201 319399 319036 319211 319405 319037 319212 319418 319056 319214 319420 319057 319215 319422 319070 319220 319426 319075 319227 319443 319086 319228 319456 319107 319241 319471 319110 319242 319479 319118 319252 319496 319125 319255 319498 319145 319281 319504 319151 319286 319507 319156 319297 319527 319159 319304 319529 319161 319305 319532 319539 319796 319553 319799 319559 319801 319586 319804 319587 319808 319600 319832 319616 319833 319617 319846 319645 319855 319647 319877 319655 319879 319657 319902 319684 319903 319698 319907 319727 319911 319729 319929 319733 319953 319748 319961 319777 319793 
Alternate numbers and further information is posted outside of the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune 
MSU vs. Notre Dame 
September 23,, 2000 _J 
Monday, September 18, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
OLYMPICS 
U.S. swiID01ers capture 6 01edals 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY 

The U.S. Olympians shared the wealth Sundav: a half­dozen swimmf>rs • grabbed medals. a boxer extended his team's unbeaten streak, and the basketball team demol­ished China in its Sydney debut. 
· Led by gold-medal winning Tom Dolan, who broke his own u-year-old world record in the 400-mcter individual medley. the Americans seized the spot­light from Aussie teen sensa­tion Ian Thorpe to capture two golds. three silvers and a bronze. 
Dolan 's second consecutive Olympic win in the event capped a productive day in the pool for the U.S. team. 
Teammate Erik Vendt took a silver in the same event -the second one-two U.S. finish of the day. Brooke Bennett and Diana Munz took gold and sil­ver in the 400 freestyle. 
Finishing ofT the medal rush were 33-year-old Dara Torres. who capped her comeback after a seven-vear retirement with a bronze· in the 100 fly, and Ed Moses. wh:o won silver in the 100 breaststroke. 
Moses finished behind Domenico Fioravanti, who won Italy's first-ever Olympic gold in the event. Torres couldn't catch Inge De Bruijn of the Netherlands, who lowered the 100 flv world mark for the third time this year in taking the gold. 
About the only bad news: Jenny Thompson· finished fifth in the ny, her first race after setting the record for gold medals by a U.S. woman with her sixth, all in relays. 
After two days, the United States led the medals chart with 11 (4 gold, 5 silver, 2 bronze). Host Australia was second with 9 (3-2-4), while France (3-2-lJ and China (1-1­
4) ca.ch had 6. 
Women's soccer 
The Chinese team extracted a little payback from its U.S. opponents, with goalie Goa Hong rejecting a penalty shot by Kristine Lilly to preserve a 1-1 tie. 
Last year. it was U.S. netm.in­der Briana Scurry's stop of a shootout ponalty kick that won the World Cup for the Americans. Gao turned the tables with her lunge to stop Lillv in the 74th minute, while Julie Foudy scored the lone goal for the U.S. team. 
Both teams' hopes of making the Olympic semifinals hinge on their final group games Wednesday. 
Men's basketball 
In its first rout du jour. the American hoopsters rolled over China in a game every bit as one-sided as its final score: 119-72. 
China stayed competitive for the game's first six minutes, but Ray Allen's 3-pointer and 
breakawav dunk started the 
U.S. domination. The Americans were led by Allen, who had several highlight-reel dunks en route to 21 points, while Vince Carter had 16. 
BOXING: After watching the first three U.S. boxers win in Sydney, Brian Viloria wanted to keep the team's record intact. In a tough fight against Russian Sergei Kazakov, the 106-pound Viloria did just that. 
The 19-year-old Hawaiian built a 6-1 lead after two rounds, then held on for an 8-6 win over European champion Kazakov in a first round bout. 
Men's volleyball 
The once-mighty U.S. volley­ballers stumbled in their first Sydney contest, losing to Argentina 24-26, 25-23, 25-21, 25-18. The loss raised the pos­sibility that the Americans, twice gold medal winners in the '80s, could go without medals for the second straight Games. 
The team finished last in Atlanta. 
Women's gymanstics 
In the land Down Under, things almost went topsy-turvy for the defending gold medalist 
U.S. women's team. After com­peting early Sunday (Saturday night EDT). they waited to see if they would qualify for the Olympic finals. After six anx­ious hours of waiting, they did -by 0.4 points, barely avoid­ing humiliation. 
page 17 

Russian women win despite crucial injury 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY 
Russian coach Yevgeny Gomelsky was livid after his team's impressive win over Poland, but his mood had nothing to do with the game. 
In Russia's opening win over Cuba, point guard Irina Soumnikova was struck in the face by a Cuban player's elbow that required two hours of plastic surgery Monday (Sunday EDT), ending the 35­year-old's Olympic career. 
"I am totally indignant that this has happened and it is not the first time it has happened against Cuba," he said. "At the end of the first half, No. 10, (Maria) Leon, a very experi­enced player, on purpose she hit one of our players, hit her in the face and the referee did not see it. I don't understand. I am training ladies. This bas­ketball, ladies basketball. 
"She is 35 and this was her 
fourth and final Olympics and 
now it is over. For this to hap­
pen, it is unacceptable." 
Cuban officials were not 
available for comment until 
after the game against the 
United States later Monday. 
Soumnikova also broke her 
right wrist when she fell after 
being struck. 
"I want to thank the Australian doctors at the city hospital. They operated on her face for two hours. They did everything possible. It was under her eye. We'll find out tonight the consequences of the trauma she had." 

Gomelsky, who coached the Unified Team to the gold medal in 1992, said his team used Soumnikova's injury as a rallying point for the 84-46 
•

win over Poland Monday (Sunday night EDT). 
"I want to commend them for the way they played." said the brother of Alexander Gomelsky, the Soviet Union's coach in 1988 when it beat the 
U.S. men in the Olympic semi­finals. "They set a high moral example." 
Russia (2·0) held Margo Dydek, Poland's 7 -foot-2 cen­ter who plays for the WNBA's Utah Starzz, to eight points on 2-of-15 shooting. 
"People have to understand that defense will alwavs save you," Gomelsky said. ~'It will always compensate for your mistakes." 
Elena Khoudashova had 13 points to lead six Russian play­ers in double figures and was one of the inside players who forced Dydek into the poor offensive performance. 
Russia led 34-20 at halftime as Dydek went 2 for 9 from the field, missing her first six shots, then started the second half. 
LAZARD 
Cordially invites University of Notre Dame Seniors to·a ·Presentation and Reception On. Wednesday, September120th, 2000 

I . ­
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 18, 2000 
NFL 

Trunpa Bay crushes Detroit with balanced offensive attack 
me." Warner said. "Those arc "Ile's lakeri more than any­said afler the Giants' victory tivn starts was Walter Payton.
Associated Press 

things I go back and study." body has ewer taken in the his­over frustrated and winless with 170. Because of his inaccuracy, the tory of this organization. Five Chirngo. "Ricky has br,en unbPliev­POI\JTIJ\C. Mirh. 
Hams (3-0) had to do it tlrn hard touchdowns? /\re you kidding "We kept the ball and took abln," Seahawks quart1irbackEvnrybody in the NFL knows way. just like their 37-34 victo­me" I'm proud to snap the ball time o!T the clock. We wern 2-0 .Ion Kitna said. "People say that
what tht• Tampa Bay 

ry ovr.r Seattle last week and a to him." and a lot of people wondr.rnd he's lost a strp, but I haven't 
BuccatH'l'rS want to do. 

41-36 decision over Denver in After having a first-quartr,r how we'd come out in this 1-men it.'' 
Stopping them is another mat­

the opener. They won a fran­intorccplion rrturncd for a game. We came out and played \VattCJrs, who hasn't missed a tPr. 
chise-record 13th straight at touchdown and falling brhind WP.I!. .. start sincn Christmas 1993
Thn IJurcantwrs did exactlv 

home. excePded 30 points !'or 10-0. the oft-maligned Grbac The Giants came up with four whnn he was with the San
what tlrnv wanted. withou·t 

an NFL-record ninth straight was showered with boos for Lhc sacks and held the Bears' ane­Francisco 4rJers. is supposed tomurh r(\Sistancl', in thr.ir :n-10 gamP and beat the 49ers !0-3) sflcond straight honrn game. mic offense to a lonA touch­be in thfl twilight of his careervictorv ovPr thf' DNroil Lions on l'or the third straight time after Then he turned all the boos to down, Chicago's only sr.oro in in Seattle, which made runningSunday Just as thPy did in thAir losing 17 previous times in the cheers by coolly throwing fivr the last eight quarters. back Shaun J\lnxandnr of41-0 win ovnr Chicago al home 
series. TD passes. including thrPe to "Being 3-0 is outstanding. You Alabama its top draft choicelast week. 
"It's the 49cr changeup," rookie Sylvester Morris. lt was can't do any better at this point this yrar.
Tampa Bay, undr.fr.atr.d after safety Keith Ly!I' said. "It's not the first time a Chiefs quarter­in time. It's a start, that's all it Airxandnr had liv11 carrins fort.hrne games for just tho second 

the old 17-0. same old sorrv back thrnw five TD passPs sinc•p is," said New York coach .Jim 19 vards and was in tlw sarnPtimesincf> 1979. rushrd for 120 Hams. The 49ers have got tc1 Len Dawson in 1967. Fassel. whose team might have backlield with Wattnrs a coupleyards and lirnitl'd Lhf' Lions ( 2­
tnkl' it" The unflappable Grbac m11rP­finally convinced the skeptics. of times.
'.I) to 17 yards on thP ground. 

ly praised bis oJfonsivr line. "The reasons we were under­"It's prctly cffrctivc havingShaun King threw a tour.hclown 
"It was execution. That's what dogs even though WP. WP.re 2-0 those two guys in the back­
Falcons 15, Panthers 10
pass and rushed for a score. 

it was," he said. "When a quar­was that people thought we field," fullback Mack StrongAtlanta·s latest victorv is more
WarrPn Sapp led lht• harass­

terback throws for live touch­wern doing to let down. But said. "Either onn of tlrnm canlikely to Pnd up in thP footballmtmt ol' Detroit's Charlir Batch downs, you've got a lot of fine then~ was a sense of confidPnce come up with the big plays andwith thn1e of Tampa Bay's l"ollies than a highlight rnPI. 
offensive line play. Tlwy gave the r,ntire game." that giws us an advantage."
The Falcons. who had just
sevt'n sacks. 

me the opportunity." Barber's 3-yard touchdown With thn scorn tied at l 0.
one takN1.way in their first two
Tlw Bun·irnePrs want to run 

Th<' 6-f'oot-J !\llorris. takPn in run late in the third quartrr Kitna hit tight nnd ltula Mili
gunws. had two interreptions,
th,~ ball right at U\ams while 

th<' first round out. of Jackson \•vas the go-ahead score ,rnd fol­with a 1-yard touchdown passtwo f'umblf' rf'cOVPrins and anmixing in a pass here or thr.re. 
State. had six catches for 112 lowf'd a short Chicago punt. I le with about ninP minutPs IPl't in
On d11fl'nse. they want to shut unusual sa!'rty in a viclory over 
yards. had a 19-yard run and Dayne a thr gamn. Kris llnppnnr add1'dCarolina.
down thr run so teams arr 

"ll was a. great day." he sa.id. crushing 8-yard carry around his sncond !fold goal of' thn day,
The Falcons (2-1) werr.n't
forced inlo obvious passing situ­"\Ve just wanted to tab• advan­end to sr,t up the TD. a 45-vardN. about fivn minutPsp11 r!'et't eithPr, losing two orations. 

tage ur what San Diego gave us. "Every game we've had a IatPr hir thn final margin.
Thal was thr formula for suc·­thrP1e fumbles and missing two 
\VC' got down 10-0 earlier. but drive wherr, we didn't rven Williams. thn 1998 Ilnisman ress in 1hr Burcanerrs' run to fkld goals whil11 f'arling to capi­Elvis got us in the huddle and ne11d to pass. that's ber.n a sta­Trophy winrwr from Texas whotalize on most of Carolina's mis­
the NFC Championship game 

he composed us." ple." Barber said. rame to the Saints at thl' lwavvlast season. and they're hoping cues. 
price of night draft choicns, ha~!
"Do vou think this will be onit will lead thrm to the Sup1ir 
107 yards on 23 carries despite

Bowl. thf' b·loopers reel?" asked Giants 14, Bears 7 Seahawks 20, Saints 10 
playing with a broknn bonn in"\Vp don't Irv to trirk teams, Atlanta running back Jamal Kerry Collins had his pick of Ricky Watters taught his his lnft foot that Im sustainrd in

w11 just want. to beat llwm ... Anderson, who was part of one open receivers. Hon Daynr, sof't­young counterpart a thing or 
the opener. It was his third

or thP strangPsl blunders in the r.ned up the middle with pun­two about running, winning and
safotv John Lvnrh said. "A lot of career 100-yard rushing ganw.

tPan1s try to ·be drreptiv11 with gamf'. ishing runs and Tiki Barber consistency. 
"What I want to do is win

nt•w schemPs Parh week, but With the ralcons trying to run reached the outsidC' with his Watters had thn 31st 100­gamns." said thn 2:1-yPar-oldlh('n llwy Pnd up fooling them­out lhf' rl<wk with just over two quir.knt>ss and moves. yard rushing gamP of his career 
Williams. who missed four

minutes to play. Anderson '.\Jew York won again Sunday, to lead Seattlr. over Hickv
srlves bPrausP thPv'rp not l'un­gamns with injurins last yl'ar.

broke free l'or a 42-yard run up using v,iriety on offense and Williams and New Orleans. ·
d a nw nta l l v so u n ct wil h what 
"Tlw numbrr of yards I get is

the lrft sidf'line. As hr dosed in r.onsistency on dPfense. That's The 31-year-old Watt<'rs ran
tlwv want t~J do." 
not that important. It was frus­fampa Bay brat Detroit in thri on the rnd znnf', Doug Evans why they're 3-0 and off lo their 22 timAs for 105 vards and a trating just watching thc sProndSilvPrdomP for only tlrn sernnd knorked the ball out of' his best start since 1994. touchdown in his (ooth ronsr,c­half' becausn wn didn't get ontimn in Pight visits. hands. rr.rovered it and stepped "We played some pretty good utive start. The only bar,k in the field much."

King was 18-of'-30 for 211 into thf' end zone bf'f'orn rolling ball-conlrol offense." Collins NFL history with more ronseru­
vards. Mike Alstott ran !'or (18 \'ards and a touchdown on 21 ;·arriPs. KPvshawn Johnson caught Pight passPs for 84 vards. · 11;ttc:h. in his SPrond gamP ol' I.Ill' s,~ason. was 26-of-36 for 277 vards with onr touchdown and ·two intrrcrptions. .James Stewart gainPd just 13 yards on Pight carries. while GrrmanP Crm.wll had six rPcPptions for '>3 yards. 
Rams 41, 49ers 24 
Kurt Warnn's high interr.r.p­tion total hasn't cost St. Louis ­yPt. 
Wanwr thrl'w'1wo tour,hdown passes and two more intr.rcP-p­tio ns in a virtorv nver San Francisco, giving· him six in rach catr.gory. Last year he had 41 touchdown passes and 13 intercPptions. 
"I hatP to sr.r. them. but we'rn 3-0 and that's all that matlcrs and f'vr got to put thr.m behind out. 
The ollicials called it a safety. ruling that both of Evans' fr.et came down inbounds before hr enterrd thP end zone. That gave thP Falcons a 15-10 lead with 2:l2toplay. 
Thr Panthers (1-2, r.hallengrd thr. ruling, and replays showed Evans· sr,r.ond foot landed on the goal line. But the ruling stood basPd on the perception that momentum rnrried Evans into thr end zone. 

Chiefs 42, Chargers 10 
The last Kansas City quarter­back to throw five tour.hdown passes in one game went to the 1 lall of Fame. 
Elvis Grbac was happy just to gr.tout of the doghouse. 

"If anybody in Kansas City deserves to be the man around here it's Elvis Grbac," center Tim Grunhard said after Grbac's five TD passes led the Chiefs to a victory over winless San Diego. 
C.OLLIGI MI.GHT 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 9 PM -12 MIDNIGHT 
UMLIJI\ITID BCtWLIMG 
$5 PER PEP:.SON SHOES EXTRA 
Beacon Bowl -4210 Lincolnway W, South Bend 
234 -4167 

2000 Mendoza College of Business 
Career Foru01 
Thursday, September 21, 2000 6:00pm-8:30pm (MCoB) ***For Seniors, MBAs, and MS in Accountancy students only*** ***Dress is Business Formal*** 
Friday, September 22, 2000 10:00am-3:30pm (MCoB) ***For ALL students*** ***Dress is Business Casual*** 
• 
Meet and talk with representatives from over 100 companies 

• 
Take advantage of great networking opportunities, to assist with attaining full-time positions and summer internships 

• 
Attend information sessions to learn more about different career fields and options 


Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business 
Monday, September 18, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Browns hold off rally, earn first ho01e win in five years 
statement. Offense was scarce Coleman said of his spot on the before the game that this team week, gaining 187 yards.
Associated Press 
for both teams. Jets' alley-oop pass unit. "l was had neve.r had a shutout," said 
Brett Favre was inconsistent surprised that no one was on me Walker. who disrupted the mid­
CLEVELAND Vikings 21, Patriots 13
until the last drive, when he as I ran down the middle. Once dle of the line with five tackles
As the final a!{onizing second Daunte Culpepper confused
completrd four of four passes to the ball was in the air, I don't and two sacks. "I said that today
licked off. Tim Cour.h hugged New England's defense and left 
put the Packers in position for a care who was around me, I think would be a good time to get
Chris Palmer. ,\I LPrner inhaled. Drew Bledsoe searching for his
last-second Ryan Longwell field the ball is mine." one."
the Dawg Pound barked like il comebar.k touch. 
goal. which won it for Green Bay. The Jets, 3-0 for the first time The Bengals (0-2) have scored 
was thP old davs and Chweland The elusive Daunte Culpepper
The Eagles were plagued by since 1966, relied on one touchdown in two games this
rnckf'd as· thf' i~ruwns beat the threw for 177 vards and two TDs 
inconsistent play and penalties. Testaverde's fourth-quarter year. Akili Smith was intercepted
Stt'ders. 23-20. and ran for 59 yards Sunday to
ll seemed like every time they heroics to win their first two twir.e and sacked five times, 
· r\ftN nearly five years. several lead Minnesota over New
did something good on either games. This time. along with while Corey Dillon managed only 
England.
hcart-stnpping seconds and a 
side of the ball, they had a key Kevin Williams' 97-yard kickoff 32 yards on 17 carries.
chaotic tinish, the Browns had Culpepper threw for two first­
penalty.· return in the first quarter, the It was hardly a masterpiece by 
half touchdowns against a game
finally won a home game. 
It's not verv often that vou big plays came in the first half. the Jaguars. who averaged 409.5
JeromP. BP.ttis turned in an plan devised by defensive mas­"" 
don't see a tou~:hdown in an NFL Testavcrde said he asked the yards in their first_two games 
termind Bill Belir.hick. and
imprnssive performan<'e for the gamfl. Green Bay is still suffering coaches to include the 6-foot-2 and struggled to get 241 yards.
Sten!Prs. Pittsbuq~h drove the Minnesota held off New England
t'rom not having enough of a run­Coleman in the alley-oop pass Brunell was 20-of-32 for 176 
for a victory.
ball at the end ol' thP game and 
ning attack. Cntil they get Dorsey . unit when the play wasn't work­vards and was sacked four times. 
a field "They were trying to contain
was in position tn kick Levens rompletely healthy, they ing with 5-10 Wayne Chrebet \Vithout running back Fred
goal to possibly put the game me. And when they blitzed out­
will probably r.ontinue to suffer. and 5-9 Dedric Ward in training Taylor for the third straight
into ovrrtimr, but ran out of side. I was able to stay in the
In this game, Levens played but ·camp. game, the Jaguars managed only 
pocket," said Culpepper, a run­time. 
managed only 74 yards on 24 "He would make a great 85 yards rushing -25 by 
ning and passing threat in his
Quarterback Tim Couch had a 
carries. But that's not enough of receiver if the coaches allowed Brunell and 20 on a reverse by
strong game l'or the Browns as first full season as quarterback
a running game to take pressure him to play both ways," H. Jay Soward, their longest play 
lw eontinues to progress. throw­of the Vikings (3-0). 
off Brett Favre. Tcstaverde said of Coleman. "He from scrimmage.
ing for over 300 yards. For the Ile completed 19 of 28 passes.
It was Longwell's lirst game­was the guy l was looking for." 
third straight week. Im was seven to Cris Carter. who moved
winning field goal in the NFL.
imprrssivf' in his ability to get Broncos 33, Raiders 24 from fourth to second place with 
college or high school, and it
tlw ball to difl~,rcnt receivers. Jaguars 13, Bengals 0 Joe Nednoy said he didn't want 942 career r.atches. He passed
gave Mike Sherman his first vic­
Phil Dawson kir.ked a 19-vard Embarrassed by four second­payback. Ile got it anyway. Art Monk (940) and Andre Reed 
tory as an NfL head coar:h.
f'il'ld goal with 2:45 IPl't ·and half touchdowns in a bitter loss Barely does a kicker become (9411 and trails only Jerry Hice l'itLsburgh couldn't get off a la.st­
last week, the Jacksonville the center of attention, but Joe (1,217). s<>rond attempt.. giving the Jets 27, Bills 14 Jaguars were determined to Nedney managed the feat Browns their first honw win When the New York Jets trad­prove their defense is good Sunday when his three second­
Dolphins 19, Ravens 6
ed Keyshavm Johnson, they fig­enough to carry the load. half field goals lifted Denver past
sincf' 1995, 23-2(hJver thti arch­
A sloppy field and Miami's
ured they'd need several They stated their case Sunday Oakland.
rival StcPlers. 
defense made Tony Banks look
receivers to fill the void. Little did with the first shutout in franchise Nedney, cut by Oakland late in 
more like, well, Tony Banks. 
anvone know that a defensive historv -even if it came at the the preseason when Sebastian
Packers 6, Eagles 3 Coming off a five-touchdown
back would be in the mix. expense of the lowly Cincinnati Janikowski won the kicking job, 
Andv lfoid's mur.h-anticipated performance against
Cornerback Marcus Coleman Bengals. had four field goals and was 
return to Lambeau Field ended Jacksonville, Banks was sacked
caught a 45-yard scoring pass l\1ark Brunell celebrated his responsible for all of Denver's
with Bvan LongwelJ's long­six times, fumbled twice and
from Vinny Testaverde on the 30th birthday with a 21-yard second-half points as Denver
awaited·redemption. threw an interception as Miami
final play of the first half Sunday. touchdown pass that initially was beat Oakland.
Longwell hit a 38-yard field beat Baltimore Ravens. 
breaking a tie and lifting the Jets ruled out of bounds, and Gary While insisting he didn't want
goal with thrre s0.conds lP.f't as Amid steady rain, the Dolphins
to a victorv over Buffalo. Walker and the rest of the vindication, Nedney said
Green Bay eked out an ugly vir,­harassed Banks all night. They
"We work on that play every defense took over from there in a Sunday's performance was "mis­
torv over Philadelphia. did the same to Baltimore's
Fridav, so I knew there was a victory over Cincinnati. sion accomplished." 
defense.
l\l say this game was a defen­
possibility we would run it." "I made everyone aware "It's a good way to start my 
l___ 
sive strugglr would bf' an under­

¦ 
¦ 
New Meetings for Students and Young Adults. 

Lamar Smith ran for 63 yards
career with the Broncos." he 

on 22 carries and scored twice.
said. 

Thurman Thomas, who spentSigned by the Broncos tin much of last week's loss at
Tuesday to cover for an injured Minnesota in the backfield pick­Jason Elam, Nedney kicked field ing up blitzes, added 56 totalgoals of 24, 32, 22 and 21 yards. 

yards and converted five thirdHe was responsible for all nine 
downs.
second-half points after the two The Dolphins (2-1), held to two 

teams emerged from halftime first-half field goals by Olindo

tied at 24. 

Mare, opened the second halfDenver was impressive run­with a 61-vard drive that fea­
ning the football. It had been 

tured a pair of nifty plays by
rumored that Terrell Davis was 

Smith.
likely to play. He didn't, but 

Scrambling in the pocket, Jayrookie Mike Anderson carried Fiedler found Smith just past the
the load for the Broncos and line of scrimmage and hit himexcelled for a second straight 

with a shovel pass. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTER.."'l"ATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 201 Security Bulldlog Notre Dame. IN 46556-@397 T: (219) 631-5882 Fu; (ZJ9) 631-5711 

JEHVSALEM 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C. Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
MONDAY SEPTEMBER 18, 2000 
4:45 P.M.
312 Lafortune Student Center 
214 DEBARTOLO 
ALL ARE \VELCOME! 
Mondays7PM 
page 20 The Observer+ .SPORTS Monday, September 18, 2000 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Handv Waldrum was not pl1'a:wd with his tliam's play earlv on. 
"\\11• WNP a littlr> biL orga­11i1.Pd during tlw l'irst 20 min­utPs." lw said . 
..\l'tPr missing 1twir l'irst t'Pw chall('.!'S. tht• lluskil's b11gan to f'adr>. whilP tl11• grew strongrr. 
.Junior del'PndPr Lindsny .lon1's l'irPd thr f'irsl punch, s1•nciing a through ball lo s" n io r \1 t• ot is Er iks o n w h o juknd scvPral \Vashi11glon d(' fo ll dP r S b(\ fO r (\ g iV i n g \JotrP l)amP a 1,~ad it wouId IH'VPr rt>linquish. 
Just momPnts latl'r. sPnior .\n1w \1akin<'n intt•rrnptnd a rlnaring allPmpl and fl'd a pnrl'n«'l 1·ross to sophomon• .\lly l.ovPla<'P, who lrnd just rntPrl'd thr gum" Providing a quirk boost off tlw b1•n['.h, l.ovPlarP rippPd a low shot by tlw lluskil' kt't>fWr giving thP Irish a two-goal rusbion. 
l.ovl'la1'.I' would ;tdd anoth­1•r tally just bi-f<ll'P lhP half­tinw brPak..\l'tPr sLPaling a ball in Uw box. sh1' spun to lln right and drillt\d n low sh11l ins1d1' LhP far IPf"t post. 
Washi·ngton hPad roach Lnslit> CallirnorP knew her squad has its chancHs during thP ganw's opPning 20 min­
utes. 
"You 'rn only going Lo g<:t a few rhanrPs to srorf'. against a good tPam like this," she said. ";\s thP game worn on, we had a couple dnf'Pnsive lapsPs and madP a fow mis­tak Ps and a good team is going Lo punish you !'or PVcrvonP. :\nd that's what they did." 
In the spcond half tlw Irish continued to pour it on as Makinen added two goals of hl'r own, bringing her career total to 57 in thn procnss. 
For the Irish it was another f)Xercise in dominance. They havP now outscored their oppon1•nts 26-3, while out­shooting them 182-29. 


Got Sports? 
Call 631-4543. 

YOU CAN KNOCK OUT THOSE "FRESHMEN 151" 
HAVE WEIGHT WATCHERS COME TO YOU WITH OUR NEW ON CAM.PUS PROGRAM. 
Youl' iui:,et-e0nvenient dwirn diet frcrn a nl!rne you fruit fa corning to Notre D11ma! 
Wo cornpllCiltad counting! ~at pizza, mt-food rneal!:­:iny food you crava &i:tlll lo!:e weight.
IJ; 


UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES is seeking energetic and motivated students interested in serving on the 
STUDENT WELLNESS ADVISORY BOARD 
Applications are due FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
For more information and an application please 
go to: 

http://www.nd.edu/--uhs/swab/ 
Monday, September 18, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Syracuse 
continued from page 24 
"Chad gave the other team fits," Apple said. "He's playing like a junior. not a freshman." 
Braun. the 1999 Big East Rookie of the year, made his first start for Notre Dame this season after recovering from a ham­string injury. 
"Erich's a goal scorer, so he's a little disappointed that he didn't srore, but l thought he had a terrific game," Apple said. ''.His fitness is· great, his passing is great and he was a huge fac­tor in our win. 
"I thought Chad and Erich did a terrific job up front. They cre­ated so many opportunities for us." 
Braun and Rilev took nine of Notrn Oame's 18 shots. while Syracuse only managed 15. 
"We had 19 guys play for us," Apple commt~nted. "That's. always positive, having lots of guys play." 
Added Tait: "We knew it was going to take a couple games to g<'t going anrl get comfortable with eurh other. As Jong as we play well, play bard, and play together, we feel we can hold our own against pretty much anybody." 

ERNESTO LACAYOrfhe Observer 
The Irish next take the field 
Tuesday as they host Cleveland Senior defenseman Steve Maio moves the ball during Notre State. Dame's 3-1 loss to Bradley on Sept. 6. 
VOLLEYBALL 

Belles· still winless after loss to Hope 
MIM with a record of 6-3. 
By ALICIA ORTIZ The Belles had the home 
Sports Writer 

court advantage and fans in the stands to support them. 
This past Saturday, the Each game is a chance to Saint Mary's Belles found gain experience for the victory in their loss against Belles. nationally ranked Hope "They were an excellent College. team, we held our own 
"We don't see it as a against them," Alexis loss," Leigh Ann Matesich Pontius said. "We rose to 
said. "We frustrated the the level that they were other team and that let us playing at." see that we The Belles can play." have dis­
"We don't see it as a loss.
The now played their 0-9 Belles We frustrated the other ability to gave the 
team and that let us see challenge 
Flying more expe­
that we can play."
Dutch a rienced run for teams. t h e i r 
Leigh Ann Matesich The Belles money, next play on
Saint Mary's Outside Hitter
falling in Tuesday, at 
t h r e e C a I v i n games 15-4, 15-13, 15-8. College. Hope is now 4-0 in MIAA "Calvin is a team that we matches. can beat," Matesich said. 
"Tho second and third The Knights are 10-3, and games could have gone have lost to Kalamazoo and either way," junior Denise Hope; the two teams that Langolis said. "And I know the Belles have played their Hope realized that." best games against. In 
The Belles have not had a preparation the Belles have fabulous season. In best been working on defense terms, they are still getting and blocking hits. 
to know each other and "As long as we play as their coach. The Flying one team and one unit, we Dutch are placed first in the can win," Langolis said. 
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
Callus for
The TIAA-CREF 
•· afree••·.
mforrnation 
package 
THE TIAA-CREF ADVANTAGE 
Investment Expertise 
Low Expenses 
Customized 


• 
~Cl>S 
Welcome Notre Dame & Saint Mary's Students 
256-1444 

SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest Prepared by Francesco and Family An Authentic Taste of Italy Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Hours: 
12~,'l Lin.c;,nway West 
Mon.-Sat. 5:00-10:00 ~ m. 
M:Shawaka
Sun. Closed 

(Francesco was a chefat ND for 30 years) 
Banquet rooms available 

Intematio~al Summer Service Learning Program 
· ·  ,-.,,,  Year 2001  
Oa  ¦bodla Gllana  KH!JO  lovador Hoadvra, ¦ ••loo  1I.lalYador lndla  

ISSLP is an 8-week COD'Ullunity based summer service-learning course where students work in one of twelve countries around the world with organizations and ministries meeting the needs of the poor and marginalized. Includes: Travel Expenses, $1,700 Tuition Scholarship, 
3.0 credit lneology course, Preparation &t Re-entry Classes. 
Qualified candidates must have strong conversational skills for Spanish speaking sites and previous experience in service-learning. 
~ At the Center for Social Concerns 
~ Thunday, September 14, 6:00pm Tuesday, September '26, 6:00pm Sunday, October 8, 6:00pm 
Applications? Available at !he Center for Social Concerns 
Deadlines? Due Wednesday,November 1" 
Call the !SSL!' Director, or Andrea Mechenbier or Dawn Lardner at 631-5293 
tlU
Cl /II t I: I ,-0 Ill 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 



Advantage. 
Year in and year out, employees at education and research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy diversification among a range of expertly managed funds 

• 
A solid history of performance ano exceptional personal service 

• 
A strong commitment to low expenses 

• 
Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options 


For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF. 

Ensuring the future 
1 800 842.2776
for those who shape it:M
~ www.tiaa-cref.org
1----------------------~•~ ----­
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1800 842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. • TIAA-CREF lnd1v1dual and Institutional Services, Irie. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annu1t1es. • Teachers Personal Investors Services. Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual lunds and tu1t1on savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities.• TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lase value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CRff D8/03 
r-------------------------­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 18, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Focused Belles battle to 1-1 tie against Olivet College 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 

Sporm wrirrr 
They camt•. thf'y playPd hard. they played long, and ewrntuallv had to settlf' for a tiP. Tlw Saint Marv's soccer tnani stands at third in the MIAA with a l-1 tally against Olivet's squad. 
"Wr, l'amf' out rr.ady to play," Katy Hobinson, Belles co-captain, said. "Wt• prnppcd for it all wf'ek." 
Thn Bnllr.s brok11 thcir three ganw winless and scoreless stn\aks. with shutout losses to Del'auw. Kalamazoo and HosP-llulman. They also broke two-ganw losing and scoring streaks against 
"Both teams were pretty
() I i V (\ t . offense." after sur­well matched. I'm sure After coming f" Pring we'll get them next tiine." out strong
shutout against Alma. the lossP-s in He Ife s ' o !'ff'. n s e l 999 in Katy Robinson has also seemed 
both lhn co-captain rPgulnr 
Sl'iLSOl1 
and t!J,, 
playoff'i. 
" Bot h t 1' ams w P r P pretty wl'll matrlwd," Hobinson said. " I • m pr P tty s u r P nP x t ti m t• wt•ll g<'l tlwm." 
Thi' BPIIPs took first blood. sroring Parly in thP first half. wlwn a pPn,tlty kirk round tlH\ nrt. Stnphani11 :\rtnak took tlw shot l'or Lhr BPllcs to bump hPr S<HLson 's lallv LiJ Lwo and lrad thP B1'1IPs· in scoring. Arlnak's 0Ll1Pr goal ('anw in th1i sPason op1•nt•r ag-ainst Alma. also on a pPnalty kick. 
"It canw in thP first 10 min-u l,.P s . " 11 n a t hP r M u t h s a id . "She was awPsonw. WP pum­m1'11•d tlwm with shots aftPr that and nothing \VPnt in." 
Like Hobinson. Muth is ron­fidPnt that tht• nt>xl time' tfw two tnams facP-off. Saint Mary's will {1nwrge thP victor. 
" W,, sho u Icl hav{1 b r1 a tt) n tlwm." Muth said. "Thnv had a rnuplP tal1•ntPd play,:rs but tlw rPsl or thl' tParn wasn't vPry good " 
Thr l,ady Comets out shot 

the Belles by an 18-10 margin. Eight or thos0 shots were rrPdited to Laura Fiorino. who scorod the game-tying goal for thP ComP.ts. and sr,ven by r>'oris Sullivan, the Comet's leading scorer in l 999. who Q.SSisted Fiorino·s goal. 
The Belles· defense. which has struggl0d at times this season. held under the pres­sure of the powerhouse duo. Tia Kapphahn, starting goalie for the Belles, came away with eight savPs, whilo Tanja Rupert, the netminder for the Cornets. IPl't the match with four saves. 
"I think we're finally getting our defense in line and work­ing together," Hobinson said. "Now we're able to work on our 

a bit lackluster. 
According to 
MLI th. that has 

changed as well. for thP b,•uer. 
"Wr. we!'(~ much morn aggressive." Muth said. "We attacked the 50-50 balls. We've been going out and get­ting Lo the ball first." 
Through their lossns. heart has never been a problem for this team. That showed as well against Olivet. They wanted to win. 
"Even at the end of t!rn ga.rne. I could have gone anothr•r 45 minutes, just lo score a goal." Muth said. 
\tluth was able lo do just that last season in a home match against Adrian. In that game, Muth scornd as the clock ran down in a second sudden-death overtime. NfwerthPless. Muth was happy with thP tie. which also ended aftnr two suddPn-death over­times. 
"It was a great game," Muth said. "It was so flXciting." 
Thn Br,ll{]S stand at 1-3-1 for the season. and 1-1-1 in MIM play. 

"Fighting Irish Special"' 
Sunday-Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday 5:00 -7:00 PM 

Notre Dame Saint •a,y9s 
271-1177 271-7272 
lilonday,-Tllarsday 1-f am -1 am Friday,-Salunlay 11 am -3 am Sunday Noon • 1 ant 
•Tit• 111o•t popular • •• c••P••,•i 
DOROTHY CARDERrrhe Observer Freshman forward Katherine Green dribbles upfield during Saturday's soccer game against Olivet College. The Belles battled the Comets to a 1-1 tie, snapping a three-game scoreless streak. 
········--································-························ 
ND vs. MSD Bus Trip September 23, 2000 
...•.......••••.......•...•..........•.....•. 

Bus departs from Stepan Center at 9:30 a.m. on Sept. 23. Bus leaves MSU 45 minutes after 
the game ends 
Cost is $25.00 and in~ludes round 
trip bus transportation to Spartan Stadium in East Lansing,. Ml 
Tickets go on sale Sept. 15 at LaFortune Student Center Info Desk and Box Office. ND/SMC/HC students may urthase two tickets with two ID"s 

Monday, September 18, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
TOM KEELEY 

BILL AMEND 
LESSON ONE: "How NOT To BE SUCH AWEENIE"..• 
I 
HIS ISN'T WHAT I MEANT, 
MOM! 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


.. 

To reduce the amount of food taken from the dining hall, students will be subject to mandat(?ry strip searches 
Fox TROT 
THAT'S WONDERFUL, 

I ~OT AN J'ASoN! A+++ ON MY I MATH QUIZ. 
WONDERFVL?! MOM, THIS IS THE WORST SCORE I'VE RECEIVED ON A GUIZ tN TWO YEARS! I'LL NEV­ER BREAK MY RECORD A+++++ AVERAGE AT THIS 
~~RATE! 
1~ 
1 THINK I NEED A PRIVATE TUTOR. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35. Peak in ancient 1 Slightly open Palestine 5 African­
36"Go,_!" 

American 37 Doesn't just diet 10 Pay, as the bill 38 School zone 14 1953 Leslie 
sign Caron musical 39 Former Atlanta 
role arena 15 Spine-tingling 40 Second voice 16 "Picnic" 41 Spin 
playwright 42 When both 17 "And that's that!" hands are together
19 Partner of void 44 Treasure locales
20 Outer: Prefix 45 Open to the
21 See 4-Down breeze22 Evade, with "out 46 Wedding cake 
of' 
feature24 Kind of bag 47 Carry all over25 weevil 

the place 26 _ corpus 
50 Throws a shot 29 Routine 
51 Bandleader 33 Unreactive Brown 
34 Madam 54 Come into view 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
P E T C  R A A V I  S  
I  N H A  A C T  I  V E  
S C A  L  --1---"'-:.J,,:;..  E R  
T  I  L L  H E  
0  N  L O  A N  
L O A  D E  
S  I  L  
ETA  AIL  
N O D  N C 0  

CHE ~:::.i..::..a..;.. DGES HEM MOST 
E R I C I D A L I I 
R E C E S S N A N T 
55 Not plan A or B, or even X or Y 58 mater 59 "Farewell, Frarn;:ois" 60 Exhort 61 Adult-to-be 62 Approvals 63 Egg holder 
DOWN 

1 Sheltered, at sea 2 Give bad luck 3 Beefy actor Ray 
4 With 21-Across, a 1970 John Wayne film 
5 Makes soused 6 Do not disturb 7 Suffix with buck 8 Geom. figure 9 Index entries 
10 It's given to Regis Philbin 
Puule by Nick Grivas

11 Responsibility 31 Call off, at Cape 
12 Look at lustfully Canaveral13 Be a snitch 32 Cat calls 18 Parade sight 34 Favorable23 Lodge member forecast 
24 Michael 37 Referee's.Crichton novel, demandwith "The" 
41 "We hold

25 Greet truths .. ." 
ceremoniously 43 Item with a clip26 Make a pass at or a pin27 Prefix with meter 44 Like oranges28 Betting game 
and lemons 29 What's not used 
46 Student getting 30 Places for heros one•on-one help 
1 14 17  2  3  4  6  7  8  9  11  12  13  


20  
33  
36  
39  
42  
54  
58  
61  

47 Bed board 51 Folk tales and such 
48 slaw 
52 Work units 49 It's where the 53 "Leave it,9 to a heart is typesetter 56 Summer drink 
50 Letters before omegas 57 Ice melter 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888•7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Pablo Picasso, Tony Franciosa, Minnie Pearl, Tracy Nelson 
Happy Birthday: You must keep things in perspective this year if you really want to get ahead. If you take on too much or overspend, your efforts will fall by the wayside. Focus on whatever you feel you can do well and let your creative mind lead you in a direction that will ensure success, happiness and satisfaction. Your numbers: 2, 17, 26, 29, 37, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is not a time to take chances or put up with abuse. You must follow your heart and avoid those individuals who want to argue instead of work­ing things out amiably. 00000 
TAURUS (April 2().May 20): Your desire to travel will lead you to your local travel agent. Your second alter­native will be to drive to a nearby resort area. Include your whole farni­ly. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may want to .take a closer look at some of the investments you're involved in. Try to get rid of any that appear to be dubious. Cut your loss­es. 000 
CANCER Qune 21-July 22): Open, honest communication will be neces­sary ifyou wish to make your person­al life work. Expect the unexpected. Be prepared to compromise and make adjuslmeru3. This won't be the easiest time for a relationship. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sudden ~regarding relatives or friends may be upsetting. Don't let your per­sonal feelings jeopardize your pcsi­tion. It's best to do your own thing and mind your own business. 
00000 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIB.GO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Check into your alternatives before you make any decisions that will affect your status. Qrlldren will be costly. Don't let them talk you into buying things that they really don't need. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct 22): Channel your energy into doing things with children or getting into clubs that will help you improve yourself. Expect to have a prob1em with someone you live witn. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): You should visit older family members. You'll be surprised how much you can team from those with more expe­rience. Don't get involved with those whoareoverindulgen.t.000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Joint financial ventures will go sour. Try to salvage what you can. You will be taken advantage of if you are not choosy enough about the company you keep. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 1 Be honest with yourself regarding · your motives. You may be in a rela­tionship for all the wrong reasorui. Consider your options. You will be emotionally up and down. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. ZO..Feb. 18): You 
will be able to attract new mates if 
you socialize with friends. Someone. 
you count on may not be trustworthy. 
Do a little research yourself before 
making any claims. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Maire 
creative changes to your living 
arrangements. You may find that 
extra money can be made if you ­
willing to present some of your 1­
bies to those in a position to help,yaa 
macket them. 00 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
--------------------------------------------------------------------·----­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


Monday, September 18, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish take Seminole tourney 
. Weekend wins push team record to 7-3 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Wri,cr 
Notre Dame vollnyball upped its rncord to 7-3 fol­lowing this wr.eknnd as it seized the Lady SPminol<· Volleyball Classic tit.IP. 
"We'vp bnnn playing a lot ol' strong. ranked tPams and wn've been tlw undPrdo!{s. but this wePknnd we wrnt into the tournamf\nt with tlw attitudP that wn wPrn tlw l(\am to beat." said junior Kristy KrehPr. "WP knew what WP had to do and wn rPally got it done." 
ln ganlf' onP on Friday the Irish def'eawd Florida i\&M 15-5. 15-3 and 15-3. 
Junior Marcie Bomhark IPcl Notre Damn with 11 kills and ni1w digs whilP topping her rar11cr high with f'ivP 
1l('PS. 
Thn Irish also Ind game two action on Friday with a win ovt'r Florida StatP ( I :i­10, 15-8, 8-15, 15-2). Krnlwr provided a strong pPrf'or­mancP for Notrn Damt! with 19 kills. l'ivn digs and two arns whik Bomhack addPd 13 kills and ruur digs. Junior Malinda Cornlski also put in somP strong playing Lim() for the Irish with ten kills and snven blocks whilP senior Dnnise Boylan totaled 51 assists, nine digs and three blocks. 
"Thn f'act that we had a balanced attack really helped us." Kreher said. "We worked really hard on trying to get r,vr,ryonr, involved in our offense." 
Notre Dame rounded out the weekend with a three­gamr, sweep (15-9. 15-8, 15­
8) over Samford on Saturday. Goralski led the Irish with eight kills and two blocks. 
"I think that we really struggled last weekend and we kncw that we had to come back and win, and it's good for us to be on a win­ning streak right now," said Kreher. 
Notre Dame will play again on Thursday as it f'aces No. 21 Loyola Marymount in the Joycr, Center at 7 p.m. 


PORTS 
... 
page 24 Ol3'sERVER 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Riley leads team to first Big East victory 

JEFF HSU!The Observer 
Senior tri-captain Dustin Pridmore, shown here last year against the Orangemen, scored the second goal of the game in Saturday's 3-0 victory at Syracuse. 
Irish stay unbeaten with West Coast wins 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Spo11,; Wrm..·1 
Freshman Chad Hiley scored the first 
.. 
goal o!' his rnllPgiate carnor and sopho­rnorn goalkPPpcr Grq~ Tait had another stellar game as tho Irish men's soccf'T tPam b1\at Big E1L,;t rival Syracuse :1-0. 
"We played rPal ly tP rri fie soccc r," Irish roach Chris /\pplf" said. "I don't think anyonP had an off day." 
· With th1• win, thr Irish improve LO 2­2-1 on tbr-SPason and 1-1 in the Big East. 
Tait. who was playing near his home­town of Fayett1wille. N.Y.. recnrd('d his third shutout of the soason. 
"I think (;n,g was motivattid to have a good gam!' and hP did," Apple said. "lie madP a couple of prof'cssional class savns and in g.-neral. showed some vory good goalkPt'ping." 
J\ddP<l Tait: "Coach Appll' made some adjustnwnts. and I think tlwy hdpcd out a lot. But I hmP sul'h a gn•at dcfonse playing in front or mP. il makPs my job casv." 
Ttw Irish got on thP board in th1• 16th minutP whPn SPnior ConnPr LaHose hPaded in Hiley's rnrrwr kick for his first goal of' th!' sPason. 
When sophornon' Eril'h Braun's shot dol1<H'.tl•d off Syral'us1• goalkePper K1win Baclwr in tlw (i9th minutt•. sPnior Dustin l'ridmorc outracPd a Syrarus1, ddend,\r to tlw ball and kn<wkPcl it into tlw nPl lo put thP Irish up 2-0. 
"Erich's shot bouncnd off tlw goalie. and I was stridr for stride with tlw !{uy marking nw," Pridmorn said. "I slid into tlw ball. and it snuck into the goal." 
Said Apple: "It's usually on() widP midl'ieldcr against anothPr. and I've b,~Pn gPtling on Dustin to win thosn bat­tlf's. I think the other guy was actually ah<\ad of Dustin and lw just gave it Pxlra pffort and brnt him to thl' ball. It's orw ol' thost• shot-; that'll look grnat on llw highlight rnPI." 
Hilt!V ccnwnt11d Lill' Irish vidorv whPn ht• sc"orPd in LhP 7(ith minut;1 on a brnakaway off a pass from junior Matt Hosso. 
see SYRACUSE/page 21 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Wrircr 
The second-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team rarely misses a chance to seize an opportunity. This weekend was no exception. 
With a chance to grab the nation's top ranking for the first lime since 1IJWJ on the heels of North Carolina's upsrt loss to Clemson earlier in the week. Notre Dame tagged Washinglon and Portland with their first loss­
es of the season at the adi­
das Invitational in Portland, 
Ore. rt was thought that the un­
defeated Washing­t O 11 Huskies would pro­vide the Irish with a stern lest. The 
1 5 t h ­
r a n k e d 
lluskics 
started strong, compiling a 5-0 mark, and were eager for the chance to slay one of college soccer's giants. 


But on Saturday the giants dominated. The Irish over­came a slow start to rip the Huskies 5-0. And after beat­ing Portland 1-0 on Sunday, Notre Dame improved its record to a pPrfect 7-0-0 on the season. 
For the first 20 minutes of the Washington game. it looked as if the Huskies might pull the upset. 
Washington junior forward Erin Otagaki harl the first 
.--------------------------------------------------~-----­
Spiked 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team dropped its season recnrd to 0-9 after a loss ro /lope College on Saturday. 
page 21 

real scoring chances of the game. The Huskie forward bolted uncontested through the Irish midfield and had a clear shot on Irish goalie Liz Wagner. Fortunately for the Irish, Otagaki's shot went low and wide. 
Minutes later . .it was Otagaki again streaking through on a breakaway. Wagner, however, ran out to cut down the angle and deflected the ball wide. 
Notre Dame head coach 
see SOCCER/page 20 
vs. Cleveland State at Calvin College vs. Loyola Marymounr • Cross Country Tuesday, 7 p.m. s~ Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. Thursday, 7 p.m. Nation;'.! Catholic Invite
SPORTS '® 
ATA 
Fnday, 5 p.m. Golf 
vs. Manchester College at ITA National Clay
s~ at Michigan State at Kalamazoo 
,'ti' .,.
Wednesday, 5 p.m. Courts~c.;_"7) Sarnrday, 3:30 p.m.
Thursday, 1 p.m. 
GLANCE 

Thursday-Sunday .'" 







