
He's Back 
Tradgedy in Pennsylvania 
Heartthrob Ben Affleck is back on the big 
A gunman killed two before surrendering after 

Thursday
screen and on the run from criminals in 

a violent shooting spree in the suburbs of 
"Reindeer Games." 

Pittsburgh. 
MARCH 2, 
Scene . page 12-13 

WorldNation . page 5 
2000 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIIl NO. 95 

By KATE STEER 
Assisram News Edirnr 
To say that the past week has been a rough one would be an understatement for Notre Dame sophomore Conor Murphy. 
Murphy was diagnosed with leukemia last Friday. After his diagnosis, he returned home from Washington, D.C., where he has been studying, to Cleveland, Ohio, where he will begin 
chemotherapy today at University Hospital. 
Murphy's doctors have narrowed his condition to one of two types of leukemia: acute myeloid and acute lym­phocytic. 
"Since [his diagnosis], we've all been praying for him," said sophomore Steve Napleton, a close friend of Murphy. "He's in good spirits. I don't think there's any doubt in his mind that he's going to overcome this." 
Most people who know Murphy 

describe him as ambitious, someone who works hard and plays hard. A gov­ernment major, he is the only sopho­more to be spending in the semester in Washington, D.C. 
"He's one of those people who always gives everything his all," said Napleton. "He's very involved in various organiza­tions. He takes studying seriously, but also takes spending time with friends and having a good time seriously as 
see MURPRY/page 1 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Gramick challenges Vatican rules 
By ERIN PIROUTEK 
Assistant News Editor 
Sister Jeannine Gramick hopes that the Vatican's decision to limit her ministry to gays and lesbians will invoke dialogue about areas of disagreement within the Church. Her Thursday lecture "What if Catholics Disagree" explained her points of disagreement with the Vatican and encouraged discussion first in small groups then by the entire audience. 
In July 1999, The Vatican Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith. a body to safeguard church teaching, ordered Gramick and rather Robert Nugent to permanently end their pas­toral work to gays and lesbians and their parents. 
This specifically forbids activities such as leading retreats and workshops; how­ever. they are still free to speak and write. 
"It's been a limiting of my ministry, not a silencing," said Gramick. 
The seeds of Gramick's ministry devel­oped in 1969 at the University of Pennsylvania where Gramick was pursu­ing her masters. 
"I became very good friends with a young man who was gay," said Gramick. The man had abandoned a religious community because he felt that being gay was incompatible with being reli­gious. 
"He said the Catholic Church didn't want him," said Gramick. She explained that as a sister, she wanted to show him that the Catholic Church did indeed want him. 
Her order assigned her to gay and les­bian ministry. Gramick was involved in counseling, educational programs, work­shops and retreats. 
see GRAMICK/page 1 

STUDENT SENATE 
Group votes to disclose student body election results 
By LAURA ROMPF As.sisrnm News Edimr 
In a 17-7 vote, the Senate opted to open tho results enve­lope from the run-off election for 2000-2001 student body presi­dent anrl vice president. 
Tallies revealed th11 Brian O'Donoghue/Brooke Norton tick­Pt won 56.3 perrent of the vote, and the Hunt Hanover/John Micek ticket received 41. 3 per­cent. Norton was glad to see the results favored her ticket. 
"I'm really glad everyone in the student body has been given the opportunity to see the run­off results," vice president-elect Norton said. 
"We're really happy to find out 
''There is student opinion that the Senate is full of sneakiness and illegitimacy, we should end this. 
David Zachary Alumni Hall senator 
that the student body is behind us as president and vice presi­dent," she added. 
Before tho envelope was opened by current student body vice president Michael Palumbo, there was debate on the rele­vance of seeing the null and void results. Because numbers had been leaked last week, senators did not want students to assume that senate members knew the results and were simply hiding the totals. 
"I don't want this issue hang­ing over our head," said Phil Dittmar, Fisher Hall senator. "I think we should open it and move on. Students think we are hiding the results from them. My opinion is we should open it." 
Others agreed. 
"I agree with Phil," said Patrick O'Donnell. Carroll Hall senator. "We all know that the run-oIT was invalid and doesn't matter, but still we should release the numbers. lt is part of the public record. and it should 
see SENATE/page 4 



INSIDE COLUMN 
Throwing the game 

What part of "Don't throw things on the court" don't you understand? 
Do you have so little respect for Coach Matt nohrrty and the Irish seniors that you needrd to take the game out of their 
hands? 
But the most important question is: Why would you ever throw something onto the court? 
When Jimmy Dillon, Skylard Owfms and Todd Palmer walked off the court for the last time in their 


Irish careers. they should 
Mike Connolly

havP saluted the students for their support. Instead, they, like the rest 
assoC'iate

of the team, walked off in 
sports editor 

disgust. 
Can anyone blame them'? 

Dillon had left everything on the court. Hr picked up his fifth foul diving on the floor !'or a loose ball. Ilis hustle and heart should have played a pivotal role in the game. Instead, a fan in the stands drcidrd the Irish fatr. 
for the first time in years, the Notre Dame stu­dent body is a vocal presence at basketball games. Unfortunately, it has been known more for its stupidity and not for its cheering. 
Thanks to the action of three fans who threw trash on the court, the media will once again blast the Notre Dame student body. Sports columnists around the arra ,_.,,ill call the frish stu­dents "classless" or "immature." 
In front of a national television audience, Notre Dame fans looked like a bunch of children. 
"Maybe they shouldn't throw balls into the stands any more," Doherty said after the game. "It's too tempting to have a ball in your hands and not to throw it." 
It's too tempting for a 6-year-old not to throw a ball. A college student should have enough self­control to refrain from throwing things. 
All three people who threw items should hang their heads in shame. The first item tossed on the court was met with a warning directly from Doherty. 
For some reason, two fans felt that warning did not apply to them. 
The second thrower was lucky. Martin lngelsby threw the foam ball tossed from the stands off the court before a ref saw it. 
But the last item to fall from the stands was the most inexcusable and stupid event of the year for Irish fans. 
Because some fan felt the need to ignore a direct request from Doherty, the game was taken out of the players' hands and put into a water bottle. 
If the Irish find themselves NIT-bound. don't blame the ref who called the technical. 
Blame the guy who threw the water bottle. 

Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said after the game that his team would have won the game ¼ith or without the technical. 
Many Irish fans would love to be able to settle that question. But thanks to a fan .vho felt that he was bigger than the team. that question will never be answered. 
For Dillon, Owens. Palmer and everv senior in the student section, that student th"rew away much more than a basketball game; he threw away a proud ending to their home career. 
"It's unfortunate that it had to come down to that," Dillon said. "But that's basketball." 
That's basketball? 

No. Basketball is played on the court by the players, not some guy in the stands. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThP 0bserPer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Colleen McCarthv Mike Venegas Kelly Hager Graphics Nicole Haddad Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production Molly McVoy Molly McVoy Viewpoint Lab Tech Lila Haughey Pete Richardson 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, publi,hed Monday through Friday except during, ex;1m and vacation period,. The Oh,erver is a member of the Associated Press. A.II reproducrion rights :are reserved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Student Services Week:  . Strong Women in Film  . Performance:  "Boston  . Lecture: "With New  
Karoake at dining halls  Series: "A League of their  Brass," 8 p.m.,  Eyes We Sec: Oscar  
from 5:30 p.m. -7:30 p.m.  Own" 9:30 p.m.,  Washington Hall, tickets  Romero," 7p,m., Le Mans  
. NAACP Relationship  LaFortune, free admission  available at LaFortune  Hall, Saint Mary's  
Forum: "Two Wrongs Don't  . Performance: "Chicago  . Event: "Boston Brass  . Event: "La vie rnvee des  
Make a Right, But it \1akes  Samha School  -Popular  Master Class," 1 p.m.,  angcs," (The Dreamlifo of  
'it Even" at Lafortune  Brazilian Music," 8 p.m.,  Washington llall  Angels) 2 p.m., Annenberg  
Ballroom, 7 p.m.  HP-ckcrs, South Dining Hall  Auditorium, Snitc Museum  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Uof Texas researchers find new cancer test 
AUSTIN, Texas 
forms of cancnr as well. 
University of Texas researchers "The technology will have broad have developed a more efficient applications to othP,r organ sites, such method of detecting cervical cancer as the oral cavity and lung," she said. that could give doctors a faster intrr­The prnbe is currently undergoing a pretation of their patients' gynocologi­$8.9 million, three-year trial financed cal health. by the National Institutes of Ilealth in 
Rebrcca Hirhards-Kortum, a profes­which 1,800 women in Houston and sor of electrical and computer 1.mgi­Vancouvrr, Rritish Columbia, will par­
nurse to use a small brush to swab
neering at the UT Department of ticipate.
the lining of the uterus to collrct tis­
Biomedical Engineering, and Michele The Anwrirnn Cancer Sodety esti­
sue for examination under a micro­
Follen, a professor of gynecologic mates cervical cancer will cause
scope. Although the procedure takes
oncology at the M.D. Anderson Cancer 4,600 deaths this year and that more
only a few minutes, samples must be
Center in Houston, created a fiber­than 12,000 women will be diagnosed
analyzed in a lab, and results take
optic probe that shines light on the with the disease in 2000.
between seven and 10 days to arrive. 
cervix and displays what it detncts on Risk factors include certain sexual
The new device will also bn a pain­
a computer screen. behaviors, immune system suppress­
free replacement to colposcopy, a
The probe, which has bncn in devel­ing diseases such as HIV and AIDS.
method that involves scraping the 
opment for 10 years, will provide smoking and failure to receive regular
uterine lining when abnormal cells
instantaneous results, unlike the cur­pap smears. Cervical cancer is nearly
are found during an examination. 
rent method of examination, the pap 100 percent preventable if detected
Richards-Kortum said the device 
smear. Pap smears, which detect early, according to the American
has the potential for diagnosing other
abnormalities in the cervix, require a Cancer Society. 
Two students arrested for drugs 
MADISON, Wis. 
Two University of Wisconsin-Madison students were arrested Monday for possession of drug para­phernalia and possession of narcotics with intent to deliver. Police later estimated the street value of the seized narcotics, mainly marijuana and Psilocybin mushrooms, at nearly $65,000. The Dane County Narcotics and Gang Task Poree responded to a call and obtained a search warrant for the apartment. Chris Lambrou and Michael Goot, both UW-Madison juniors, were arrested Monday after tenants told authorities of an odor coming from the apartment.A statement from the task force said they seized 7.5 pounds of "Dank Nugget" marijuana and 2,000 grams of Psilocybin Mushrooms as well as $2,915 in cash and numerous pieces of drug paraphernalia from the apartment. Lt. Bill Housley of the Dane County Narcotics and Gang Task Force said the bust was one of the largest in the history of Dane County."This sort of thing doesn't occur often," Housley said. "We got a pretty good quantity this time. This has been one of the biggest." 
Yale withdraws from FLA after rally 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

In one of the largest anti-sweatshop demonstrations to date, about 300 to 400 Yale University students ral­lied Tuesday to demand that their administration withdraw from the Fair Labor Association (FLA) and join the Workers Rights Consortium (WRC). Roth tlrn FLA and the WRC are organizations designed to moni­tor overseas sweatshops, but activists said clothing manufacturers have too great an influence on the FLA "We think the FLA is a sham," said Yale senior Amanda E. Bell, one of the organizers of Tuesday's rally. "We think it's a public relations ploy by corpora­tions. We would like to see Yale take a moral stand [by withdrawing]," Harvard Attorney Allan A. Byan Jr., the administrator most responsible for sweatshop poli­cy, said he supported the Yale students' right to rally, but that tho action would not affect Harvard's support of the FLA." I'm glad to see the first amendmm1t exer­cised in New Haven," he said. "This clearly is a matter of' concern to students, administrators, ~niversities. everyone. If they can get students together for a rally, then more power to them." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 1.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L Friday ~ 48 31 Saturday ~ 51 36 Sunday ~ 57 41 
FRONTS:
_._._
Monday d 62 45 
......... ~
' ' ' "' ' 

~ 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Pre,sura: 
. 
. .;.,:,0\·..

(8) © D . CJ . Ci;]. D
Tuesday Q 62 46 
,, ~ ' ' ' 

High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 72 47 Las Vegas 67 46 Portland 55 42 Baltimore 62 35 Memphis 67 47 Sacramento 63 43 
Boston 28 Milwaukee 31 St. Louis 58 Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl, Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 44 27 New York 44 32 Tampa 80 56 Via Associaled Pross. GrdphicsNet Houston 75 61 Philadelphia 62 33 Wash DC 52 33 
QQ,Qq~q (f ~ u 50 43 39 
Thursday, March 2, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Grant allows ND prof to research disease in Haiti 
• Streit devoted to examining diseases affecting the poor 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
News Writer 
ror vears. rathrr Thomas Strrit. has devoted time to rcsParrhing diseases affecting tlw poor. 
Streit. a Notrr Danw biology proft•ssor. has now taken his n·sParch tn llititi. wl1r>re hr is rt'sParrhing Lymphatir Filariasis. filariasis. a disease that causr~s elephantiasis. 
al'l'P<·ts  many in  the island  
nation.  
"Filariasis.  a  mosquito­ 

transmittPd scourge that afl'cicts 120 million people throughout the tropics. is c·on­sidrred one of a handful of dis­rasrs that can br eliminated if onlv rountries like Jlaiti can l'inci the' will and rrsources to addrPss the' problem proper­lv." said Strrit. who is rurrnnt­1~· IPading the research. 
,\n Pnorrnous PnlargcmPnt of the infected area charactcrizAs elephantiasis. Such areas could be any part of the body. including the malA sexual organ. Bodily deformities. mal­nutrition, and lack of knowl­edge and resources for pre­vention plagues Haitian's dral­ing with elephantiasis. 
Aggressive in supporting research for the diseases of the poor. Streit wrote a pro­posal to the 13ill and Melinda Gates f.oundation and recf'i.ved a positive response. 
Visiting Notre Dame for only a few days. Father Streit spoke of the $5.2 million grant he received from the Bill and Mr.linda Gates Foundation and his commitment to lymphatic filariasis (r.lephantiasis) res1rnrch in Haiti. 
Strnit also collaborated with he Center for Disease Control; a governmr.nt agency devoted to the control and prevention of disease. 
"In collaboration with Haitian governmrnL the U.S. Agency for International De\'elopment and Center for Disease Control and Prnvention, the World Health 






Student Activities is hiring Sound. Techs & Lafortune Building Managers for the 2000­2001 academic year. Applications available in the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune. 
Deadline fo1· applving Friday, March 10. 

Organization. Notre Dame and nical and teaching expertise to 
others, plans are being made the natives. In thA past year, 
for the elimination of this dis­the center in Haiti has 
ease from Haiti and the other received trained from the 
72 endemic countries during Dominican Republic and 
the next 20 vears." said Streit. Brazil. Streit hopes the center 
"The main goal and focus is will serve as a resource not 
prevention. We are trying to just for Haiti but also for the 
stop it from going to the next infected countries in the 
generation," said Streit. region. 

As a researcher and Holv Streit said there is a distinct 
Cross priest, Streit has shared difference between public his faith with the Haitians, heallh and acute care. Streit "The country is troubled in believes that he can save a lot m a n v 
more lives bv 
ways, bu·t 

researchingthe people "The main goal and focus control and pre­are won­
is prevention. l11e are vention. rather 
derful. than treating
trying to stop it

T h e people's e\'ery­
strength [Filariasis] from going to day acute with the 
needs. Streit is

the next generation,"
family and 

also verv excit­faith is 
ed to see Notre 
prevalent Father Thomas Streit 

Dame students ~ blessed professor get involved in are the 
the prevention p o o r , 
of elephantiasisSlreit said. in Haiti. 
Streit has been living on and The Student International off in Haiti and researching Business Council is aiming to elephantiasis there since 1993. market. manufacture. and dis­
This mission in Haiti, however, tribute bednets in Haiti as a is temporary. Ultimately. the tool to fight vector-borne trop­Haitian government will take ical diseases sui:h as filarial 
most of the responsibilities. elephantiasis. malaria, and while Notre Dame and the dengue Fever. Center for Disease Control are Bednets would provide cov­currently providing thr. infra­erage for each person to pro­s tru ctu re by training the tect them from the mosquitoes Haitians on disease control carrying lymphatic filariasis. and prevention. Notre Dame the disAasc that causes ele­
and the CDC provide the tech-phantiasis. 
College credits 
for 

taxpayers. 
Upto$1500 
Campus Locations: I!::==-==:::;-,
COMING SOON: 
Full Service:
A NEW ATM, 
Reckers
LOOK FOR IT 
Douglas Road Office
IN THE NORTH Cash Dispenser Only: DINING HALL! Hammes Bookstore Grace Hall 
Coming Soon: 
North Dining Hall 


-FREE Admission -FREE Food 
This project is seen as yet 
another preventive measure 
for the disease in Haiti. The 
proposal from the Council still 
has to go through the Notre 
Dame administration. 
"If there's a communitv of 
people dedicated, you can turn 
an idea into action," said 
Stephanie Rosenthal, Sil3C 
Director of Marketing. 
Streit welcomes any student 
interested in helping in Haiti 
during any break. This experi­
ence will "expose you to a dif­
ferent culture. government. 
and ecology," said Streit. 
"After spending time in Haiti, 
you come back as an activist 
for the poor and protecting the 
environment.., 
The only research party 
involved in this issue. Notre 
Damp, interests in Haiti extend 
to dAngue hemeragic fever. a virus by mosquito that can kill people. 
Additional research possibili­ties include in Haiti intestinal parasites, bacterial infection of the stomach and malnutrition. 
Streit has been fascinated bv tropical diseases since high school, and is happy to be ful­fil ling his dream by mixing social servicn and sacramental service. When asked if he is scared of contracting a disease in Haiti. Strrit strrssrd that knowledge is a great thing. 
"Lack of knowledge and poverty arn hugA contributors in Haiti," said Streit. 
Bone up on the tax breaks that can help you foot the bills for higher education. 
The HOPE Credit can cut your federal tax up to SI 500 per undergraduate student per year. Applies only to the first two years of college or other 
post-secondary courses. 
The Lifetime Learning Credit can save you up to ~ 1000 a year in taxes for graduate, professional or undergraduate 
study. You cannot cl.um both 
credits for the same person in the same year. 
Education IRA. Contribute up to $500 a year per child until the cruld turns 18, 
For details, see your 1999 tax booklet. Or check our Web site: 

_,,,. When: Wednesday March !"-Friday March 3'0 9:30 PM -Where: Montgomery Theater on the Ist floor of Lafortune -Featured Films; 
..,, Wednesday: HEATHERS with Winona Ryder ..,, Thursday: A LEAGUE OF THEIR OWN with Geena Davis ..., With an incroauaion from a former player ofthe AllAmericc1n Girts Professional Baseball League ~ Friday: 6LI.Et::IS WfTH Sigourney Weaver 
COME JOJN USJJ! 
Gramick 
continued from page l 
In 1977 Gramick and Nugent co-founded "New Ways Ministrv" in Hanier, Md., to reach o·ut to gay and lesbian Catholics. 
Thi' Vatican began its investi­gation into Gramick and Nugent's ministry in 19&2. Some Catholics. including James Cardinal Hickey, archbishop of the Diocese of Washington, dis­agreed with aspects of their ministry. 
"These voices made their way to the Vatican," she said. rirst the Vatican requested a report from Gramick's provincial. Gramick quoted from the report, which said, "We think it would be counterproductive to dimin­ish this ministry in any way." 
Gramick and Nugent resigned as leaders of "l\'ew Ways Ministry" in 1984 hut they con­timwd lo hold workshops and retreals about homosexuality across the nation. 
The Vatican requested anoth­er reporl in 1985, and again the local report said that no action was necessary. 
Then, in 1988, the Vatican appointPd its own commission, which spent years in invcstiga• tions and hearings, and released the decision to ban Grumick and Nugent's ministry in July 1999. 
Church leaders wanted Gramick to publicly affirm her support for the Church·s posi­tion on homosexualilv. 
"Public ministers l1avc a duty to know what the Church teach­es and to articulate it very clear­ly," said Gramick. 
Public ministers are not rC'quirl'd to articulate their indi­vidual beliefs. Gramick refused to answer an audience mem­ber's question, "Do you accPpt the C.hurch's teaching on homo• sexuality'?" just as she had refused to answer the same question from the Vatican. 
"I choose not to make my con­science public," Gramick said. 
The Church position is that people arP calh•d to follow tlrnir conscionco. even when it doesn't agn,A with the Church. 
"!"fow, we don't preach that a lot. That's why I say it [con­sciencel is one of the best kept sccrds in the Catholic Church," Gramick said. 
A disagreement basPd on con­science, however, must be seri­ously considered. 
"It's a very strongly hel<l per­sonal r.onviclion of truth or whal is right," said Gramick. She explained that H requires prayer, serious consideration of official Church position, reading scriptures and consulting with holy people -both priests and lay people. 

In the end though, one thing matters. 
"A consci<'nce docision is between you and God." said Gramick. 
Aftor much prayrr and renec­Hon, Gramick reached a deci­sion. 
"I still believed that God was calling me to ministnr to les­bians amt gays," slrn said. 
Grarnick disagreed not only with tho decision to limit her minislrv, but also with the Vatican's process. 
"That's hardly speed in the procPdure," Gramkk said of thf' 1i -year ordeal. 
She also cited the principle that to lhe degree possible mat­ters should be handled on the local level, rather than by high­er authorities. Those on the local level most intimately know the facts of a situation. 
"We will feel much more invested in our Church," said Grarnick noting the benefits of' decentralization. 
By disregarding the loeal reports, the Vatican did not 
adhere  to  this  principle,  
Gramiek said.  
Gramick has  a  masters in  

math from Notre Dame and a doctorate in teaehing from the University of Pennsylvania. The lecture was sponsored by the Progressive Students Alliance, College Democrats, the University Counsoling Center, Call to Action, GALA and OlJTreachND. 
Because this is a public document, we should let the public know I.he informa­

Senate 
tion. It is our document now, not the .Judicial Council's.·· 

continued from page 1 
In the end, 17 out of 24 s<mators chose to see the rnsults. 

be made public. 
"Publie disclosure is an important issue," said Cimarron Gilson, Sorin Hall senator. "If some know the results, the student body has the right to know." 
'There is student opinion that the sen­ate is full of sneakiness and illegitimacy, we should end this. I am in favor of opening it," said Alumni sonator David Zachary. 
Overall, Dittmar summarized the com­ments by saying that students are losing faith in student government and show­ing the results could help give student government legitimacy again. 
"I have had many students ask me [what the results were]. Students want to know. There is a lack of trust and we need to restore this trust," he said. 
Despite most senators wanting to open the envelope, some disagreed. 
"I have reservations about opening tho results at this time," said off-campus senator Pat Foy. "Kelly [Folks] and Becky [Demko] are not here and we shouldn't do this behind their back. There is no final deadline for appeals and we all know there is potential for another appeal. If we open that we could possibly have to choose between what is in the envelope and what we think is right." 
Sonrn senators thought opening the envelope after April 1 -when no more appeals can be filed -would be opti­mal. Still others believed that since the results were null and void, they should never be opened. 
Right before the final vote, Palumbo urgr,d tho senators to follow their duty. "We do have a duty as senators. 
BRUNO'S 
STUDENT DINNER BUFFET 
Dan Peate, campaign manager for the Hanover/Micek campaign, thought see­ing the totals accomplished nol.hing. 
"I am proud of llunt and John for walking away from this," Peate said. "! wish everyone else would have followed their lead." 
However, O'Donoghue was glad to sec the results. 
"We're happy with the results as they turned out," president-olect O'Donoghue said. "We're grateful to those students who supported us through all this and we're not going to let them down.» 
In other Senate news: 
. Kerry Doolin, manager of ND Video spoke to the Senate about undergoing research into changing the store into something new. 
"Right now we are searching for the most feasible option which students will use the most," Doolin said. 
The two current options are a tanning salon or a knick-knack store. 
. 
SUB presented it's nominations for iLo:; executive board of' next year: Becky Hagelin as board manager, Elizabeth El'ta as director of programming. Katie Leicht as director of operation, Dave Clark as director of creativity and Candis Wilikinson as chief controller. Katie Reicher, the student body trcmsure for the 2000-2001 year, present1.-1d tho nominations for the new assistant trea­sures: Jrmnifer Wolfe, Katie Heidler and Christina DeFlippo. 

. 
The Senate unanimously passed a resolution requesting additional student member on the First Year of Studies Advisory Committee. 


Tues. February 29 and Thurs. Marm 2 
All you can eat for $6!! 
Pizza, Pasta, Salad, and other Italian Dishes 
2610 Prairie Ave. Location 
288-3320 
can seat parties of20 or more!! 

Murphy 
continued from page 1 
well." 

J\ftcr his freshman year, Murphy spent the summer in Belfast, Northern Ireland. working under a member of the Northern Ireland Assembly. Friends say that he has been "trying to take 
"Conor's circumstances 
the bull by the horns," since he have brought us even arrived at Notre 
closer together and
Dame. 

reminded us ofwhat's
Zahm Hall spon­
sored a Vigil of really important. Hope for Murphy Wednesday. The 
Father Jim Lies
vigil ended with Mass at the Grotto. Zahm Hall rector 
"More people showed up and helped to celebrate Mass with us than we ever expected," said l\'aplr.ton. "Not only that, but our goal was to haVf, at least one person there during lhe entire 24 hours, and at all times there were at least three or four, so there was just a fantastic turnout." 
One of the most important aspects of the vigil service was that during Mass, Murphy was praying along with the readings that had been sent to him. 
"Truly I think it was a great example of the Notre Dame community getting together and supporting one of its members," Napleton said. 
At the vigil. people were able to write words of encouragement and support to Murphy in a journal that will be sent to 
him in the near future. 
father .Jim Lies, the rector of Zahm Hall said the event has brought the campus togethor. 
"Conor's circum­stances have brought us even closer together and reminded us of what's really important," said Lies. "Folks from all over campus have expressed their regards and prayed with us. It 

has been a great boost for Conor." 
Lies asked for continued prayers for Murphy and his family. The journal with words of encouragement which was available at the Grotto during the vigil will no'vv be placed outside Lies' room at 132 Zahm Hall, for the next f'ew days before being sent to Murphy. 
The Student Activities Office is looking for nominees for the 14th Annual Student Leadership Awards! 
Ifyou wish to nominate a student please submit the following information to the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center, by March 8, 2000: 
The name ofperson doing the nominating & their relationship to the nominee. 
The name and year in school of the nominee. 
All major activities, number ofyears involved, and leadership positions held while at Notre Dame, and the year ofparticipation. 
Expound on the leadership positions held and the student's quality ofinvolvement. Be explicit in explaining. 

orld 



Thursday, March 2, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Young killer lived among guns.drugs 
MOUNT MOilHIS TOWNSHIP. Mich. 

Tim 6-vear-old bov who killed a first-gradf' \·lu.ssmule used u. s·tolen gun he apparently discovered loaded and lying aruuml in a bed­room at tlrn "flophouse" where he was living. invesligu.tors said Wednesday. Authorities focused on possible criminal charges against any adults who gave the boy access to the .32­caliber pistol he used to shoot G-ycar-old Kayla Holland on TuPsday morning, a day after the two apparently had scuffled on the playground at Buell Elementary School. The boy is too young to understand what he ,.vas doing, and probably won't be charged, the prosecutor said. AftP.r the shooting. the boy put Urn gun in his desk and went to the sch?ol office. Superintendenl Ira Rutherford said. After police questioned him, Police Chief Eric King said. he "sat there drawing pictures." 
Nigeria president urges unity 
ABA. Nigeria 

Amid reports of new dashes that killed 200 people, Nigr.ria's president on Wednesday decried religious violence that has wracked his country. mourning that '.\ligerians have lost thr.ir "sense of moral outrage." A police offi­cial in the southeastern town of Aba said at least 200 people were killed Monday in rr.venge attacks following rioting and clashes between Christians and Muslims in the north­ern city of Kaduna that killed more than 300. The latest bloodshed ocr,urred when residents of Aba, nearly all of them Christians of the Ibo ethnic group, attacked Muslim Hausas after thf' bodies of Ibos killed in Kaduna were returned home. the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. llis account could not be independently confirmed. 
Israel raises Syria peace hurdle 
JERUSALEM 

Israel's parliament gave preliminary approval Wednesday to a bill that could doom an Israel-Syria peace accord or even bring down Prime Minister Ehud Barak's coalition government. The measure, which raises the percentage o[ votes needed to win approval of any peace deal in a national referendum to a nearly unattainable amount, could limit Barak;s bargaining ability or lead Syria tu con­dude there's no point in negotiating further. In a 60-53 vote. lawmakers gave preliminary approval to the Likud opposition bill, which would require an absolute majority of eligible voters in a reforendum to approve a peace deal with Syria. 
lil?iiftl1Wlli-l•
Dow AMEx: 
1001.95 ]ONES '2R72 Nasdaq:
+9.62 

4784.08 ~s1.39 
NYSE 
S99.48 -6.84 

S&P 500: Composite 1379.19 
Volume:

10,137.93 
1,267,720,000
712.77 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CONPIWX fIS!iR '.'i £UM91 •Gl¼MGI Fil? LUCENT 1'1!CB l'NC LU +U.71 +8. 7S 0.45 )COM C011.P COMS . 6.:l.' ... 6.ll lOt..12 
nnL COMPIJTl:R Dl'!t.L +!i, 41 -+2. 20 U.02 
NICJtoson-CORP MSl'T tl.151 +1.43 'JIJ, 81 FONIX. -CORP •oNX -li. 80 -o .•, 2. Ol VASOM~DJ:CAL INC VASO •124. .fi9 ,. 3. 62 6. ,~ ftMl!:1\ l'N'l'L PET!. AIFN +58.66 +O.t5 1. 2, ltul.QI.ttO 'l'~R Cit tTEC -11.83 -0.lS 2.st VDT:ICA.l. CONPOT VCSY -Hi( .;i, -t0.37 2.'8 eoMJIAQ C'QHPU'Tl:Jt ~•o .! .•8 ~o .1J1 ~Hi .00 
COMPILED FROM THE ORSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
URUGUAY 


AFP Photo The new president of Uruguay Jorge Batlle greets former president Julio Maria Sanguinetti in Montevideo. Batlle succeeds Sanguinetti. 
President Jorge Batlle sworn in 
Associated Pren 
MONTEVIDEO 
Jorge Batlle was sworn in Wednesday as president of Uruguay, promising cost­cutting and other austerity measures to fight the eco­nomic sh1mp bedeviling this small South American country. 
Batlle (pronounced BA­shay), a 72-year-old lawyer, took the oath of office at a ceremony attended by a half-dozen South American leaders, as supporters of his Colorado Party held 

Pennsylania gunman kills 2, surrenders 
flag-waving celebrations in the streets. 
"The year ahead is going to be a difficult one ... there are challenges we will meet with success," Batlle said in his inaugural address. 
He said he would main­tain strict monetary and fis­cal policies while whittling away at a budget deficit, cutting bureaucracy and holding inflation to single digits. He also repeated pledges to cut $300 million in public spending. 
"Above all, government must reduce expenses," Batlle stressed. 
The economy is trying to rebound from a slump that saw the unemployment rate top 10 percent. Batlle also wants to stimulate foreign investment and boost Uruguayan exports. 
Batlle takes office in trou­bling times for this country on South America's Atlantic seaboard. Sandwiched between giants Argentina and Brazil, this country was whipsawed in the late 1990s by economic crises affecting its neighbors. 
Batlle, the son of a for-
enough. 

"He said, 'You're all white trash. rac.ist pigs,"' maintenance worker John DeWitt told Tho Associated Press. 
DeWitt said he left to work on another apart­ment but later saw one of his colleagues carrying another maintenance worker. who had been shot. DeWitt said he saw Tavlor, who is black, walk­ing toward the restau­rants. 
The shooting spree began about 11:15 a.m. in this working-class suburb about nine miles east of downtown Pittsburgh. 
mer president, won the presidency on his fifth attempt. He succeeded Julio Sanguinetti, a fellow veteran of the long-govern­ing Colorado Party, for a five-year term. 
Attending the ceremony were Presidents Hugo Banzer of Bolivia, Fernando Henrique Cardoso of Brazil, Fernando De la Rua of Argentina, Luis Gonzalez Macchi of Paraguay, Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and president-elect Ricardo Lagos of Chile. 
Police, responding to a call at the man's home, fol­lowed him to the restau­rants and chased him into tho office building. 
Four people were shot at the Burger King and McDonald's restaurants in the borough of about 21,000 people. 
Wilkinsburg police Chief Gerald Brewer said two people were dead and three were in critical con­dition in Pittsburgh area hospitals. At least two of the victims were shot in the bead. said doctors at University of Pittsburgh Medical Center­Presbyterian. 
Associated Press 
WILKINSBURG 
A gunman who reported­ly flew intu a rage over a broken door went on a rampage Wednesday, shooting a maintenance worker at his apartment and customers at two fast­food resta ur an ts before surrendering to police during a hostage standoff. Two people were killed and three critically wounded . 
Ronald Taylor. 39, of Wilkinsburg, was arrested in an office building after he kept police at bay for about two hours. holding four or f'ive people in wheelchairs hostage at a senior hospice center. During the standoff. more than throe-dozen children from a third-!1oor day-care center in the building were evacuated, along with other workers. 

Taylor, who was not immediately charged, was to be arraigned Wednesday night. 
Police refused to com­ment on a motive, but a worker at Taylor's apart­ment building said the suspected gunman was angry that workers bad not repaired his broken apartment door fast 
ND alulllni, Nixon's Women discuss hardships 
doctor dies 

Special to The Observer 
Dr. John Lungren, former president of the Notre. Dame Alumni Association and long• time personal physician for President Richard Nixon died Monday of heart failure at Long Beach Memorial Hospital MPdical Centf'f in California. He was 83. 
A 1938 graduate 01 Notre Dame with a barhelor's degreP in chemistry. Lungren was a member of the Alumni Association's board of directors from 1%6-1972 and its presi­dent in l972-B. at which time he also servl~d on the University's Board of Trustees. Lungren was aNotre llame bencfartor and all seven of his children attended either the University or Saint Mary's. HP received the Award of the Year from the Notre Dame Club of I.os Angeles in 1971 . 
Lungren earned his medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1942 and, after taking further training at Los AngPlPs County Hospital, served in the Army during World War 
II. He was an infantry battalion surgeon during the Normandy invasion in 1944 and was awarded four battle stars and a Purple Heart. 
Lungren joined Long Beach Memorial Medical Center in 1946 and stayed there until his retirement in 1987. He special­ized in internal medicine and cardiology and served as the center's chief of staff from 1968-71. 
He was President Nixon's per· sonal physician form 1952-80 and is credited with helping save his life in 1974. Soon after resigning tho presidency, Nixon experienced pain iu his left leg caused by phlebitis he had developed years earlier. As the condition worsened. Lungren repeatedly advised Nixon to enter a. hospital for treatment. After initially resisting, Nixon finally relented and days later a piece of a blood clot that formed in the left leg broke off and trav­eled through the bloodstream to damage his right lung. Dr. Eldon Hickman performed emPrgency surgery on the president to save his life. 
Lungrnn is survived by his wife, Lorain; three sons. John. DaniPI. a former U.S. congress­man and attorney general of California, and Brian; !'our daughters. Christin!', Loretta, Patricia and Elizabclh; and 16 grandchildren. 
A rosary for Lungren will be prayed at 7 p.m. today at Saint Barnabas Catholic Church in Long Beach, and a funeral Mass will be celebrated there at 10 
a.m. f<'riday. 
Experi 

• South Bend women speak of challenges of raising children, finding jobs 
By NICOLE HADDAD 
News Writer 
Students were given the opportunity Wednesday after­noon to listen as !wo women described their personal chal­lenges in raising children and earning a living in the South 13end community. 
Guest speakers Yvonnfl !ludson and Dawn Clrnpla both focused on the impor­tance of making the right decisions as young women. 
Describing her life before coming to the Center for the llomeless in South Bend, llndson stated she was a sin­gle rnothn of five girls and addicted to drugs. 
"With no help and no job. I found myself wandering aim· lessly," she said. 
After undergoing a house 

fire and losing everything ­including her children to the government, Hudson came out of her denial and stepped into the Center for the Homeless. She attributes the Center for helping her find out many things about herself. 
"Life had brought me so many hardships. My mom was gay. and there wern many other things where I just needed acceptance," Hudson continued. "My oldest daugh­ter. 15, was pregnant and ran away." 
After leaving the Center, however, Hudson was informed of her now position working at WNDC radio sla• tion. But evfm with this new job. Hudson still found that she still encountered struggles evi"rvdav. "I had to learn to keep· aw.ay from certain peo­ple, places and things -it's like bowling, just knor,k down the pins." 
lludson still interacts with the Center. Through speeches and activities, Hutlson says that she will never forget where she came from. 
Dawn Chapla shared her experiences about her 
younger daughter Brandy who 
learned the difficulty of rais­
ing children as a single moth­
er. 
"Brandy was very bright. 
but had a poor self-image," 
Chapla said, "and this affected 
her whole life and the choices 
she made." 
Chapla also shared her 
experience working at United 
Way, wlrnre she interacts with 
unions of' the communitv and 
repr:esentatives from thl: wel­
fare rnform panel. 
"Sr.cing more women work­ing in the community, I am also seeing more domestic vio­lence," Chapla said. "There arc issues in the home of con­trol and jealousy -and this ·leads the children to be more 
at risk." 
In spPaking of' welfare pro• 
grams, Chapla said tlrn reform 
has helped many people get 
back to work "but they arr 
still poor." She said she 
believes the jobs available 
today "simply do not offer liv­
able wages with the benefits." 
Cha.pla said the most impor· 
tant thing for people to look at 
are the issues that help the 
community. 

ng wi aker? 




If you are a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior with Mac skills and want to work for a few hours a week call Brett Huelat at 246-1488 or stop by The Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 
OPEN NOON TO SIX TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 1027 E. WAYNE SOUTH BEND, IN 46618 (219) 232-8444 

Thursday, March 2, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Gore, Bradley abandon 
Halt-Court Glorv
hard-line debate tactics 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Bill Bradley and Al Gore agnrnd on more than they dis­puted Wednesday night, aban­doning hard-linn tactics in a mild debate often aimed at the Republicans -nlmost as though the Democratic r.ontest already was settled. 
Bradlry insistnd that it was not, that he still expects to take off against Gore in the Super Tt1esclay primaries in which 15 states select Democratic rlelrgates next week, 
Gore said he took nothing for 
granted. "I do think that the 
elections this coming Tuesday 
will likelv bf' dPcisivc for the 
nomination,'' he said in a CNN 
post-debale interview. I le leads 
the publir opinion polls in all 
thn upcoming states. and the 
debate was Bradley's finale in 
California. most critical of the 
Tuesday primary states. 
"Clearly, I have to win sever­
al," Bradley told CNN. He said 
he will campaign now in New 
York and New England. 
llis tone in his 10th debate 
with Gore recalled that of their 
first. in New Hampshire more 
than three months ago. when 
he shunned confrontation. 

before the lines hardened and the farfHo-fare sessions turned angry. 
"People toll me that I was too tough in the last debate," Bradley said after this one. "It's all in the eye of the beholder." 
HA said he had been deter­
mined to correct Gore misrep­
resentations. But he added: 
"Tonight's debate set a tone 
for the kind of presidency I'd 
like to have." 
Ile did contend tl1at thP 
administration's failure to take 
"action about six months ago" 
and release oil reserves had led 
to current soaring prices at the 
gas pump. 
Gore replied that the use of tlw strategic petroleum reserve to increase supplies and ease prices is not off the table. But first. he said, there should be quiet diplomatic pressure to get more OPEC oil flowing. 
Nothing to cornparr vdth ear­lier debates, in which the for­mer New Jersey senator had accusPd Gore of lying about his own record, and about Bradley's proposals, notably on health care, That issue, a point of bitter dispute before, came up only briefly in this debate. 
There was one flareup when 
Bradley accused Gore. as he 
had before, of voting in favor of 
preserving a tax exemption for 
then-segregated Bob Jones 
University in South Carolina, 
Gov. Geo'°rge Bush has been 
under constant criticism for 
speaking there last month. Gore 
said the vote involved racial 
quotas. and he opposes them, 


Mike Shepherdha sophomore from Dillon Hall, celebrates after making a half-court shot at Wednesday nig t's basketball game. He won a semester's worth of books for the shot. 


The Office ofthe Student Body President is Now Accepting Applications for the 2000-2001 Academic Year. 
If You Are Interested In Joining Student Government, Meeting New People, and Serving the Notre Dame Community...Please Pick up an Application from the Student Government Office Located On the Second Floor ofLaFortune. 
Applications Are Due Wednesday, March 8th. 
Calendar of Events 
.~i\ 
.··..~·,, 
lii•
Freshmen Retreat #28 · 
.. ¥i Friday-Saturday, .f\11.i:ir'C~ 3"4, sf~.Hi:!11. 
'•~;. 
RCIA Retreat 
Saturday,. March 4,Moreau Se,nt~'Y· 
Confirmation Afternoon of RecQIJeQtion Sunday, March 5, 2:00 p.m.-6: McKenna Half, CCE 
Rejoice! Mass and Black H" Sunday, March 5, 4;0trp,m., Presider: Rev. Bill Wack, csc 
Freshmen Retreat #29 Monday,March 6 throu 103 Hesburgh Library Targeted Dorms: Carroll Asher, Pangborn, Morri 
Ash Wednesday Liturgies · Wednesctay, Maret\'.~, 11 Basilica of the Sacted He 



Sixth Sunday of Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, March 4 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C,S;C. Rev. Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. (homilist) 
Sunday, February 6 Mass 
10:00 am Most Rev. Joseph R. Crowley 
11:45 a.m. Most Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. 
l\11zat Really Matters? 

There are few events in our lives that cause us as much pause as being confronted by our own mortality. We are rarely forced to consider what our lives, as they are, mean; nor are we often compelled to consider how much we actually mean to each other. We, on this campus, recently received the kind of news that ought to cause us pause, and that ought to compel us to consider what's important, what really matters to us. One of our number, Conor Murphy, a sophomore from Zahm Hall who has been studying on the Washington semester, was diagnosed with leukemia this past Friday. On Saturday he was flown from Washington to his home in Cleveland where he has since entered the hospital for more tests and treat­ment. 
There is a degree, obviously, to which this is about Conor, about our concern for him and an unabashed appeal to all of you for prayers for him. But my reflections here are as much about us, and about the introspection and self-reflection that has been prom pted by the news of Conor's impending battle; an introspection that is not only personal, but communal. I am struck by how Conor's news has redirected and reoriented the conversa­tions and questions of so many. I am surprised by the depth of the conversation that is taking place in the wake of the news; and I am deeply moved by the intensity of our prayer in these days. 
On the night he learned of the leukemia, I spoke with Conor on the phone and he asked me to go to the grotto and to light a candle for him. His words were reminiscent of Tom Dooley's in his letter to Fr. Hes burgh of so many years ago. Conor said that while he knows that his prayers are heard from his hospital bed, it would mean so much more to be at the grotto. But what struck me most about our conversation was Conor's suggestion, even as he was grappling with his own problems, that he was concerned about how he would tell his closest friends. Finally, we decided that it would be be st to bring as many of them together as we could and inform them all at once via speaker phone. While it was a very painful thing to be.there, it was at the same time, a rare privilege. After Conor had shared the news of his leukemia each of the guys went around and spoke their words of encouragement and support. Before we hung up we gathered in a circle, joined hands and offered a prayer of support and healing for Conor. 
It was an important moment in the lives of each of the men present and, I trust, in Conor's life as well. For his friends, and for all of us who know and love Conor, the events of these past few days have caused us to reevaluate our priorities. It has become, perhaps, painfully dear, that all that really matters and the only things that will ever give us any consolation or joy are our relationships. And that while we may legitimately pursue other things, like wealth and fame and success, none of them will mean anything unless we have intimates in our lives with whom to share them. Conor's circumstances have remind­ed us of that fact, and have caused us to speak the truth of our lives with more clarity and conviction. I am impressed by how much more often I have heard the word "love" used in speaking of their mutual affections, especially for Conor, in the wake of his illness. 
We are very proud of our brotherhood in Zahm Hall, as you undoubtedly all too well know; and more generally, we as a community speak of our membership in the Notre Dame Family. That "brotherhood" and that "family" have taken on new meaning for many in these days. It may be Conor's gift to us that we are more attentive to one another, that we know more than ever our need for one another, and finally, that we love one another even if we rarely speak the words. 
It's clear that if we've learned anything it's that our relationships are all that really matter. And perhaps we know, now more than ever, our need for the ultimate relation­ship, of that with our God. Conor knows it; his family and friends know it; it's time that we all knew it. We need God. We need to attend to our respective relationships with Jesus Christ if we are to make any sense of these days, if we are to see in it the paschal mystery being played out before our very eyes. 
I visited Conor in Cleveland on Monday and I am quite certain that he would not want us feeling sorry for him. He is remarkably strong and determined and hugely encouraged by the outpouring of love and support from the Notre Dame community. What he would appreciate, I'm sure, is if we would continue to storm the heavens with our prayrers, and not only for him and his family, but for each other. That which we are inclined to do anyway in these days, to pray, is our gift to him; that we have been drawn to it with such passion in light of Conor's predicament is his gift to us. In the end, please God, may it prove the means by which each and all of us deepen in relationship with our God, and with one another. 
•Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
-(c\tv1PUS
tv11NISTRY 

Thursday, March 2, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Albright rules out Czech post 
Associated Pres. 
'Wi\SlllNGTON 

S1'crrLary of' Statr. Madelcino Albright said Wednesday she would nol SP('k thP presidency of her native CzPrh Hepublir. 
Some Czechs havr. bcf~n spnaki11g of her as a possiblr. stHTrssor to PresidPnt Vaclav !lave!, who musl retire in 2002. 
But Albright. at a Housr, Appropriations subcommittee hearing. said: "L<>t me mako c·!Par. I am not a rnndidate and will not bP a candidatP 
"Lel me make elem: I am nol a candidate and will not be a candidate for the Czech presidency." 
Madeleine Albright secretary of state 
for tlrn Czech presidPncy." 
Iler spokr.smct.n, Janu~s Hubin, had said Sundav that slrn was "rertainly nattered" by suggestions she seek the presidpncy hnt that she has dismissed it without serious considoration. 
Albright, 62, was born in what was then Czechoslovakia. 
She plans to be in the Cz0ch Republic for thrm1 davs beginning Sunday. flr.r visit coincides with the commemo­ration or the 150th anniver­sary of the birth of national hero Tomas Masarvk. who served as tho first president of the Czechoslovak Republic after the collapse of Austria­Hungary in 1918. 
Albrighrs term as secretary of state is due to Pxpirc wh0n President Clinton leaves offir.e next January. 

Diallo verdict causes boycott 
Associ:w<l Press "This is not a black or Latino issue. This is ALBANY. ;\I.Y. people if d .11 d Several minority 1.awmakl'rs O goo · Wl · an u nh a ppy with tho Amadou this is about justice." Diallo vi,rdirt said thev will boy<'ott Mondav's session of 
. Larry Seabrook

thr stale Legislature to 
protest thr. lack of movement New York state senator of bills to combat police bru­tnlity. in the city and to limit the 
Organirnrs called on black number of rounds policemen and Hispanic lawmakers to can have in their guns. instead gather in front of the "Those are the type of Bronx building whern the things that we felt should West Afrir,an immigrant was have come out of the killrd bv four white New York Legislature and perhaps saved City po.lict'men in February this individual's life," said 1999. The officers were all state Sen. Larrv Seabrook acquittf'd last vverk. Seabrook said he expe.cted 
Among the bills which have most of the 30 members of the not passed the Legislaturr in state Legislature's Black and rece_nt Y,Pars arr, those to Puor1t(), Rica·n Caucus to 
1~t4~p~o1~k ¼!~ ,PJa>l}c"t91c,iq,IJ~,i;w,. l?e/''lmli ft?-syim~athe1.i.c'. 
oTliC[ffS Lo r,stabhsh residence ·wnitn statn leg1sfators:· H(?( dto t1•mtotl'ghly rnvest,gate the 
fatal shooting. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS, SENIORS & GRADUATE STUDENTS 
RESIDENT ASSISTANTS AND Hill DIRECTORS NEEDED: 
Holv Cross College is looking for afew good men and women to serve in our residence lite program. 
Mature men and women are needed in acoed environment of over 200 freshmen and sophomore resident students. 
Live across the street from Notre Dame while being an RA or HD. 
The successful RA candidate will receive room and board 
while the HD candidate will receive room/board and salary. 
Holy Cross College is atwo-year, liberal arts college with atransfer-intent curriculum and apopulation of approximately 500 students. 
said supporters are also urg­ing parents in the Bronx to havP thPir children skip 
school and attend the dcmon­stration. 
"This .is not a black or Latino issue," Seabrook said. "This is people of good will 
and this is about justice." 
Also Wednesday, the White House called Diallo's shoot­ing death a tragedy for his family, but stopped short of commenting on the acquittals. 
"Given the fact that the Department of Justice is cur­rently reviewing it, there is not a whole lot more that the 
president feels appropriate to say,'' White House ,spokesman Joe Lockhart said. 
Amnesty_ International also u~ged Police Commissioner ,r,How~rd Safir ?n We.dnesday 
If interested, please contact: 
Mr. Chris Ruhe Director of Residence Life Holy Cross College P.O. Box 308 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-8409 cruhe@hcc-nd.edu 
* 
HOLY CROSS 
COLLEGE 
Right for you. Right from the start. 
© 2000 Ho\y Cross College 

Panel to subpoena 
ex-CIA official 
Assodared Press 
WASll!NGTON 

The Senate Intelligence Committee voted Wednesday to subpoena former CIA general counsel Michael O'Neil after he refused to voluntarily appear ~efore Lhe panel in its inquiry mto former CIA Director John Deutch's home computer secu­rity breaches. 
'!'he unanimous vote requires O''.\feil to appear before the committee next Wednesday. 
The panel 
has planned 'T h 'll 
a r.losfld-door m sure e assert the George Tenet last August.
meeting to Fijth Amendment, but we 
As a former 

q ,u e _st ion want him to do it in front 
deputv

0 Nell on defense secre·­
whether he ofthe committee." 
tary. Deutch

withheld 
also had

in formation Richard Shelby 
Pentagon

about his for­
Senate Intelligence Committee 
cll1aranu1s. 

mer boss 
chairman but he volun­
from agency investigators and the Justice Department, members said. 
Committee Chainnan Richc1.rd Shelby, R-Ala., said in an inter­view. 'Tm sure he'll assert the Fifth Amendment, but we want him to do it in front of the com­mittee." 
O'Neil's attorney, Roger Spaeder, had notified the panel that he advised O'Neil not to appear since the Justice Department was taking a new look at the Deutch computer case. 
A key issue in the case is why it took so long for the CIA to react to December 1966 infor­mation that Deutch had stored highly classified material on home computers also used to access the Internet. 
"On behalf of Mr. O'Neil, I can represent to the committee that if compelled to appear, Mr. O'Neil would decline to testify about all matters under investi­gation by invoking his constitu­tional privilege," Spaeder said in a letter to the panel. 
O'Neil, who left the agency in October 1997, at first declined to turn over computer storage cards from Dentch's computers and delayed notifying the Justice Department of the mat­ter, according to an unclassified version of an internal CIA inspector general's report released by the committee last week. 
That report found that Deutch. CIA director from May 1995 to December 1996. processPd thousands of highly classified dowments on unpro­tected home computers that he and family members used to connect the lnlPrnet. 
Now a profrssor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Deutch was stripped of most of his securitv clearances b~ CIA Dirccto~ 
tarily gave 

them up earli­er this month. 
Deutch has apologized for his behavior, both in private testi­mony to the Intelligence Committee and in a brief appearance before reporters last week. 
But both the Senate panel and the Justice Department want to know why it took the CIA so long to notify them after discov­ering in December 1996 that Deutch had mishandled classi­fied material. 
The CIA agency did not sub­mit a report to the Justice Department until March 1998 and did not notify congressional oversight panels untH June 1998. 
The current director. George Tenet, has apologized for the delay but said it wasn't inten­tional. 
According to the CIA inspector general's report. Mr. O'Neil and Nora Slatkin, the CIA's former executive director and now an official with Citigroup, acted in a manner that "had the effect of delaying a prompt investigation ofthis matter." 
Slatkin has agreed to appear before the committee. 
The report also suggested that O'Neil had failed to send a "crimes report" to the Justice Department. 

Smart move. The whole 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow­Force ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
concept of Air Force 
ROTC revolves around 
the cultivation of qualities 
that count for leadership. 
Whether you're about to 
start college or have 
already begun, it's time 
to make your decision, 
now. 

Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. !lox Q, l',ocre Dam<. IN 46556 C\24 Sourh flining Hall, Ncmr D•mt. IN 4"556 
EDITOR IN C!IIEF l\1icl-1clle Krupa 

MANAGING f:DlTOR  BUSINF.SS MA,"-IAGER  
M. Shannon Rv.n  David Rogero  
AsST. M.\NAGII\G EDITOR  
Laura Pecelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOII\T Eonom Colleen Gaughen SroRTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 

SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EmTOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING M\..'1AGER: Bryan Lutz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTR\TOR: Michael Revers Wm ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLUR: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CoHTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENl'RAL INFO.............631-7471 
F~ ........................................................... 631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc. nd. ed u EOJTOR IN CHIEF........................................63 J-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAsST. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-53]3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@m:!.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sparts. l@nd.edu SCENE................................... ··•·•···............631-4540 observer.scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR_y's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sire a, http:!lobserver.nd.edu fu, daily updates ofcampl!S news, spom, features and opinion columns, as well as canoons. reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-co-the 
weekly student reviews

minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 
to mee, the editors and 

articles published afier 
sraff

.'\t1gust 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observe, is the indepen<lem, daily newspaper published in prim and online by che students of che Univcrsiry ofKmre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial comenr, including adverrisemenrs, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither ins,irution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chiel; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expres•iou of all opinions tlnough letters i.s encourageJ. Letiers to the E.dnor must b~ signed and must include contact information. 
Quemom regarding ObS<-n·er policie, ;hould be direct­ed ro Editor in Chief Michelle Krupa. 

THE
OBSERVER 
Over winter break my mountaine!'ring partner. Mike, and [ summited El Pico de Orizaba. an 18,600 foot dormant volcano in Mexico. Summit day itself was long. We got off to what is called an "alpine start." rising at 1 
a.m. and departing 
Todd Whitmore
from the base camp at 14,000 leet at 
1:45 a.m. in ordf'r to minimize the The Common time we would have Good to spend on the soft­er and therefore more dangerous afternoon snow and ice. 
At about 15.500, what had startf'd out as mild nausea. became a hent-ov<'r stop. We then contimmd on. Over the next 1,000 feet of altitude gain, I did manage to keep down two fig 1mwtnns and a cou­ple swigs of water, but dpcided that the accompanying discomfort was not worth it and took in no more. I went on a high altitude fast. I realized that l should have acclimatized one more day at base camp, but we were underway now. l was expe­riencing none or the other indicators of altitude sickness -lassitude, loss of coordination, headache. [n fact, once the nausea passed, I felt strong. 
We summited at 9 a.m. It was sup­posed to be the dry season, but we expe­rienced a whiteout on the descent that reduced visibilitv to 50 feet. Due to the bad weather, in'the time that we were on the mountain only one other person sum­mited among the 17 total attempts -a professional guide from the Colorado Mountain School. When we reached base camp, I could drink and, to a certain extent, eat again. I slept 13 hours that night. 
½'hy do such a thing? Why take up an activity where one of the best compli­ments that can be paid is to say a person "suffers well?" It certainly is not for the Mountain Dew/eXtreme games adrena­line buzz. Mountaineering is too deliber­ate an activity. Unless someone dies, it rarely makes it on T.V. 
At its best, it is also not done for any testosterone-driven display of machismo. There is risk, but it is calculated risk. Chest-thumping is ofiPn a prPlndc to death. Besides, when it comes to Denali ta.k.a. Mt. McKinlP.y!, most American men ofthis sort actually aspire less to climb the mountain than to own the SUV that goes by its name. Held strictly to their O\\ll criteriu. they are frauds ­morn consumer-driven than drawn by the mountain -no matter how much Gore-tex they mi!a{ht wear. 

Gi>nrge Mallory. whosf' body was recently discovernd on Everest. gave the most clear and succinct answer to why: "Because it is there." Above all. moun·­taineers climb because there is an allure, a beckoning. They might make a pruden­tial judgement to turn around on a par­ticular attempt, but they can no longer not climb. The cl()sest analogue I have is my marriage: It is hard for me to imagine life (as indeed lifol before knowing Susan. and it is painful even to try to imagine life without her. 
St Augustine's two most well-known statements express the Christian "bP.cause it is there": "Love God. and do what you will" and "You made us for yourself' and our hearts find no peace until they rest in you." It is not incidental that most mountaineering writings are confessionals structured as pilgrimages to Mallory's "there" and back again. 
Catholic teaching provides another term for this kind of activity that will at first jar our sensibilities because the word. like many others, has been distort­ed in contemporary language: leisure. In addition to housing, food and health care, Catholic social teaching includes leisure -as distinct from luxury ­under the basic human rnmds covered bv the just wage. In our frenetic culture we· often take the term to mean inactivity, but it is best understood as that time and spaco given ovf'r to an activity for its own sake. It is the vocation of avocation, the thing we do simply because it is there. 
One of my brothers-in-law rebuilds "woodies" -classic wood-panelod sta­tion wagons -in his basement. At a recent family reunion, he recounted for me, with some sadness, the transition from wood to fiberglass to decals as car­makers found that buyers would settle for less. Image, even poorly done image, became everything. He is now working on a 1949 Ford, and he does so as if he is reconstituting truth. And he is. 
Though he likes his job and is a very good and loving father, some days he works simply because of thP. need for family income and drives his children to baseball practice because someone has 
Thursday, March 2, 2000 

to. But he works on the woody because there is nothing quite like the look and feel of the grain. To be vocations. work and family must have an intrinsic draw, but tho vocation of avocation, when authentic, rPsponds only to this allure. 
It is this intrinsic allurP -this for­itselfness -that often gives avocations an eccentric character when viewed from the outside. My brother-in-law rebuilt one woody and then had to disas­semble parts of it because in his focus on what he was doing. he neglected to con­sider bow he might get it out of the base­ment. Friends kindly warned me in my pre-tnnurc years that I might want to keep my backpack-laden running of the library stairs discreet. 
Whatever the eccentricity factor. the for-itselfness of vocational avocations serve an important protective role. Our other vocations, often propelled by their very richness, sometimes over-extend their claims on our lives. Notre Dame itself has perform a tive expectations that often do just that, whether what is in question is the won-loss record of the football coach, the publishing record of a faculty member or the performance of a student in a class where the professor assigns a workload as if the student has no other courses or commitments. Despito ourselves we often seek to turn another's vocation into something we own. Appeals to "tradition" or "the "JotrP Dame family," rwen with their authentic meanings. sometimes scrvr, at the same time to mask and thus facilitate this pre­sumption. 
Though the purpose in pursuing avoca­tions is intrinsic, they also function as countervailing commitments. As such. they help us to gain perspective on the claims our other vocations make on us. In the case of Notre Dame, such perspec­tive helps both to demythologize what it says about itsell' and, in turn, to make us attentive to the ways in which. in proper measure, God's grace acts in and through it as well. 
Todd Whitmore is an assistant profes­sor oftheology. l lis column is featured euery other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those rfthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

---__-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-..._---.E--~===================:-~Er---:;-~:'.":~':'.":':'.":':'."::".':':'.":~:"'::~:::::-, MISTER D0G\3ER T 
i MY GO~L IS ONE ! THEN I'll DO SOM£ WILL BE CEO OF 
® MILLION VICTIM$ -o CROSS-SELLING, OUR FINANCIAL 
~ IN THE HR5T J; WHICH 1 PREFER TO
i
SUBSIDIARY. 
3 YEAR. CALL "BAY0NETTING 
~ 
E 
0 
t: ~ 
i
cw~~:--""'0-.:C.-.I;;,...,.L-~~..-.J-i'."::5--CJ-----la:c~-1 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I do benefits for all religions -I'd hate to blow the hereafter on a technicality" 
Bob Hope 
comedian 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page l 1 BSERVER I Thursday, March 2, 2000 
Learning about racism 
I have been paying enough attention to the editorial pages of the Observer in the last few weeks to notice that we havH had a couple of points about racism debated lately. I am a white student from a small town in Oregon that generally lacks diversity, so it may seem that I wouldn't have anything 
to say on this topic. But I do. (That's what being a columnist is all about.) 
Mostly what I have to say is that I don't understand a lot of things about racism. I imagine that thore is probably a silent but sizable number of peoplf' who are as unsure as I am. It used to be, when I was little, that racism was saying certain words or believing cer-
Marlayna Soenneker 
llere We Go Again 

tain false stereotypes or looking down on someone because of' their race. 
Hut nowadays, it seems that racism is less men in sheets and pointy hats and more everyday people who don't realize they are doing harm. I am unfortunately. a rather racially uncducatf:d person. While I understand blatant racism. I sometimes do not understand the Jess obvious forms that racism can take. 
Like every other freshman on campus, 1went through a diversity workshop during the first month of school. Mine was early in the morning, so I can't say I remember it all that well. But I do n~member being told that I could be racist or do something racist and not even know it. 
This thought has made me paranoid. I am sometimes so worrii,d about doing something that could be racist that I simply avoid the situation altogether. Once I know someone, I lose the paranoia, because the first impression of appear­ance fades. When I know someone, I forget about their race, and I don't worry so much about things related to it. But for pnople I am just meeting, or strangers I have to interact with, I often have nothing to go on but appearance, and my para­noia can cause me problems,. . . . 
Case in point: Sometimes I work down in Grab 'n' Go. At times, this means that I swipe people's ID cards. Athletes are allowed to get about twice as much food as other people when they eat from Grab 'n' Go. When athletes eat, we have to swipe their card through the special athletic machine before swiping them through the regular machine. The spe­cial machine gives the Grab 'n' Go an extra two dollars for the athlete's extra food. 
Last semester, I was doing the card swiping when a really big African-American guy came to the desk. The guy was really huge, he had a ton of food in his bag and I was pretty sure that they guy was an athlete. But I also specifically remembered talking about the incorrect stereotype that all African-American guys are athletes at the diversity work­shop. 
I didn't want to do anything that could seem like I was operating under such a stereotype, so I didn't ask the guy if he was an athlete, and I didn't swipe his card in the special machine. I just let him go by. I know he was an athlete because the regular machine wishes all athletes "good luck" when you swipe their card, and the machine wished him good luck. Because I was so worried about seeming racist, I actually lost the Grab 'n' Go money. This is how paranoid I sometimes am. 
I think many people, like myself, are well-intentioned but don't always know what constitutes a racist act. Growing up, it was obvious. But as I have grown up, I have seen that some people are hurt by things that I don't automatically see or understand as racist. 
f don't think the problem is even thoughtlessness in most cases. There was a letter to the editor on Friday, February 18, that described a situation caused by ignorance. The writer detailed a situation that happened to a Hispanic friend who had written a paper that the teacher had graded poorly. 
Aller class, the teacher asked the Hispanic friend if English was his first language. (It was.) 
The writer told us that this was a case of an ignorant racist act, and I am sure that is true. However, it took me about a week of thinking to finally come to an understanding of why this would be a racist thing to do. It seemed to me like a harmless, though embarrassing, attempt to help a student. I guess that I, too, am ignorant of the etiquette of race rela­tions. 
The dil1iculty of being ignorant in this case is that realizing you am ignorant is not in and of itself enough to solve the problem. Somehow you must learn what it is you do not know. 
llowevcr. vvhile, I truly want to understand how to not be racist, 1simply don't know where to go or how to learn. All I can do is hope that through my very real desire to learn and the various opportunities I experience in my everyday life, I will be able to figure out the answers to my questions. 
Marlayna Soenneker's column appears every other 
Thursday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserller. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Taking time out of play to pray 
I know that many people have sung the praises of our new basketball coach in recent weeks. Now. I hate to heat a dead horse as often happens with these letters to the editor, but I was recently pleased to see that Coach Doherty comes to play when it really counts. As many of you who read the inside column the other day know, Conor Murphy, a sophomore in my dorm. was recently diagnosod with leukemia, 
The members of our dorm decided to hold a 24­hour vigil for Conor at the grotto. with two people being present for each of the 30 minute shifts throughout the day and night. We had a book that we encouraged everyone to write their thoughts in for Conor to help lift his spirits. 
Much to my surprise, who was one of the first people to leave a note in that book? Coach Matt Doherty. How he heard about the vigil I don't know. But the fact that he would take the time out of his busy day to stop by a vigil and leave a note for a student that he doesn't know, shows me that he truly is a representative and a man that this University can be proud to have as one of its own. 
To all the rest of you who attended the vigil, I commend you as well, for giving of your time to think of and pray for Conor. And for those of you who didn't attend, whether you know Conor or not, plMse say a prayer for him tonight. It will only take two minutes of your time, but it could make all the difference in the world. 
Patrick Theobald Junior, Zahm Hall March I, 2000 

What it means to be W.I.L.D. 
We women of Walsh are unhappy. We are unhap­py because of the dramatic changes that have been slowly taking over our dorm this past year. We are tired of being referred to as adults yet treated like children. Decisions have been made that directly affect us without our consent or input, so this is our attempt to voice our complaints to a hall staff that continues to turn a deaf ear. 
The Wild Woman has been our dorm mascot for a number of years. \'\bat most considered to be a fun, harmless, even "silly" rep­resentation of Walsh and its resi­dents has turned into a contro­versial symbol of the authoritat­ian leadership of the hall staff. Without our knowledge or approval, the staff decided to turn the word "wild" into the acronym "W.I.L.D." which stands for "Wise In life's Decisions." According to this year's hall staff, if "wild" remained undefined, the connota­tions of the word would reflect poorly on Walshites. This had never been an issue in prior years, and the fact that it has now become 
~ ~ 

one seems ridiculous and unneces-~.,,.._.._...._..... ~-... sary. ~ 
Returning to campus after Christmas ~ break, we were summoned to a mandato-~,,. ry hall-wide meeting in which, among other pressing issues, we were berated for our sup­posed apathy towards our dorm activities. Today, our dorm-wide dance was canceled because we 
were two people short of the required 90 needed to hold the dance. Although duLac no longer specifies the precise number of participants necessary to 
h Id a dance, and with 88 sets of tickets sold, 
!early we could have broken even if not made money by having this dance. However, the hall staff had arbitrarily set 90 as the minimum number and was unwilling to compromise at 88. Not only was the dance canceled, but there was no room for discussion on 
this matter. Thus. there are 88 dis­appointed Walshites this weekend (not to mention numerous men 
now dateless). 
Making wise life decisions is what we've been encouraged to do. And yet, the privilege of mak­ing any decisions has not been afforded us this year as Walsh residents. Walsh is one of the smallest dorms on campus, and a 
turn-out of 88 shows that we are not apathetic towards our dorm life. How apathetic will Walshites become now that our hall staff has 
yet again used their authority to make decisions we don't agree with? It's not about the acronym: it's not about the dance. It's about the general sense of futility in our efforts to main­tain a positive dorm spirit and enjoy our remaining time in Walsh. 
Anonymous Wild Women Walsh Hall March l, 2000 

Legacy and spirit of the Bouts 
As a former president of the ND Boxing Club, I would like to applaud the Bengal Bouts boxers, Observer Sports writers and editors and ND stu­dent body for putting together another fantastic event thjs year. 
Judging by the exciting fight coverage from the first two rounds, the participants and fans are truly making this tournament memorable. As I look forward to attending the fights this Friday for the first time since graduation in '97, I can only hope that the turmoil alluded to in the Observer's pre-Bouts coverage has run its course. 
There seems to be much concern for the "true meaning" of tho Bengal Bouts, and what elements combine to make this tradition a hallmark of the ND experience. I urge all those who are in support of the Bengal Bouts to remember that the coaches and trainers of the Boxing Club are not only the heart, soul and body of the program, thfly arc "Nappy" Napolitano's legacy. Allow me to reiter­ate, the only ones in tho boxing club currently who have even met Nappy, let alone trained under him, are the coaches. It has been through their tireless efforts to maintain Nappy's vision t'or the Bengal Bouts that provides the student officers freedom to put on an event that seems to improve greatly with each year. 
I have known the Bengal Bouts program as a participant, president and now alumnus, and can not stress enough that I have never encountered a higher caliber of individuals than those who attend, participate in and organize the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts. There are 100-plus boxers in this year's tournament. There will be as many champions this year. That is the spirit of the Bouts. 
A recent article alluded to the middle weight divisions and he suggested any victory may be a hollow one for lack of competition. To this absur­dity I simply challenge all of you who agree: Go and watch the fights, and if you are still not con­vinced that this year's Bouters deserve as much respect as any, I suggest you get in shape over the summer and try the Bouts for yourselves next year. 
If you do you will realize that there is not one person involved with the tournament who has anything in mind but the continued success and safety of the Bengal Bouts, it's participants and the Notre Dame student body. 
Good luck to all those fighting on Friday, and congratulations to all for another great year of boxing. 
John Christoforetti Class of'97 March 1, 2000 


page 12 Thursday, March 2, 2000 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Ending of 'Games' ruins all the fun 
By JASOl'.' HAMMONTREE 
Scene Movie Critic 
Director .lohn Frankenheimer set the benchmark for political thrillers almost 40 years ago with the classic 1 9 6 2 fi I m "T h n 1\1 an r h u r ia n Candidate.•· In the years that followed. he dropped from the Hollywood radar until he returned to the big screen with ]998's "Honin," a film largely panned and notable only for its car chases (which were splendid). 
His new action-thriller. "Reindeer Games." like "Honin." breaks little new ground in the genre 
but is still enjoy-"Re"1ndeer Games" ties and lots of 
able and stylish. 
surprises to kPcpand probably one of 


the audicnc11 the bf'tter films of 

gut>ssing.

the new year. Keep 
Ultimattdy, thn in mind. though. out offive shamrock.s script gets car­that January and 
ried away wilh February are the 

Director: John Frankenheimer making it so 

known dumping 
unpredictable

grounds for studio Starring: Ben Affleck, Charlize 
that, inevitably, films that didn't do Theron and Gary Sinise the ending is a 
well in audience previews, so this isn't saying much. 
"Reindeer Games" tells the story of Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck). a convict­ed car thief with only three days left in his prison sentence. His cellmate, Nick (James Frain. "Hilarv and Jackie"), gets out at the same time. but unlike Hudy. he has a beautiful young woman. Ashlev {Charlize Theron). waiting for h(m. Nick met Ashley through a convict magazine. and the two have fallen in love from six months of writing letters. But Ashley has no idea what Nick looks like. 
A jail riot just two days before Rudy and Nick's release occurs and. wouldn't you know it, Nick is killed. 
Hudy then decides to impersonatP l\'ick (Tor tlw obvious reason of get­ting together with J\shlt>y) and tlrn new couple is off to trnjoy tlrn holi­d a vs. Onlv, somconP wants '.\fick/Hudv. more than Ashlov: Gabriel (Garv Siniso). t\.shlev;s brother and sn1all time criminal. ·11e needs Nick's help to rob a c,asino on Christmas Eve whore Nick once worked. or r.ourse, Nick isn't really Nick. and so the f'un and rhaos begins. 
To reveal any more oJ' the plot would ruin il. but the rest of th<• picture is full of twists, characlers 
changing loyal­
bit unbelievable. A rather engaging film is spoiled with a disappointing finale. 
And for that. the blame must fall to the screenwriter. Writer Ehren Krugr,r is riding a hot streak. He penned last year's "Arlington Road" and became the anointed follower of Kevin Williamson as the writer of this win­ter's "Scream 3." Both of those films were good, but also had terrible end­ings. f-Ie seems to like the excessive and both "Arlington Hoad" and "Scream 3" were arguably illogical. "Heindeer Carnes" runs into the same problem. It's just too mur,h of a good thing. 
In spite of this final naw. a director of Frankenheimer's background is at 


Ben Affleck and Charlize Theron are on the run from a band of criminals in the 
action thriller "Reindeer Games." 
least going lo deliver and keep you entertained. 
He is helped by his stars, who make the most of their respective roles. Affleck ("Dogma," "Armageddon") plays the hardened convict with great cynicism and grumpy fun. He has lied to Ashley about his identity and so he is acutely aware of the possible der.ep­tion going on around him. There's an intelligence to his character Lhat is often lacking in thrillers of this kind. 
Theron ("Mighty Joe Young," "The Cider llouse Rules") plays Ashley as a woman just looking for love. until her true intentions are revealed. And Garv Sinise ("Forrest Gump," "Snake Eyes';) has devilish fun as the small time crook, who has never actually rommit­ted a robbery before. but still behaves like he is indeed a bad ass. 
There was one oddity to the film: the end of February is a weird time to release a film using the Christmas hol­iday as a central element of the film (especially with the spring-like weath­er the r,ountry's been having). It uses the familiar sights and sounds of Christmas in a very humorous man­ner. and the audi~nce would have probably appreciated it much more had they been given the chanr,e to sec it in the freezing cold of December. with the ambianr,c of Christmas in full forr,c. 
"Heindeer Games" is a bit like Christmas itself; truly pretty good. but a bit overdone. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
Strange people do strange things in 'Wild At Heart' 
By V. VAN BUREN GILES Scene Movie Critic 
..Wild at Heart" is arguably David Lynch's !"Dune" "Lost Highway." "Hlue Velvet") best and most highly acclaimed film. This is a story that centers on two young lovers who are adventurous. dangerous and generally "wild at heart." 
The main characters are Sailor, played by Nicolas Cage ("Face Off," "Leaving Las Vegas." "8mm"I. and his main squeeze Lula. played by Laura Dern (".lurassir, Park," "A Perfect World." "Mask"). Sailor has jet-black hair. wears a"Wild At Heart" snakeskin jacket and looks and sounds like a '90s
Director: David Lynch 
version of Elvis. Starring: Nicholas Cage, Laura Lula is a tall blonde who
Dern. Diane Ladd, Crispin Glover, 
dresses rather 

Harry Dean Stanton and Willem Dafoe 

scantily and has 
an ar.cent that 
sounds like it's 

only a generation removed from poor white trash. The two make a great vision of light and darkness but share the same mentality: Live life fast and hard. die young and leave a good-looking corpse. 
Both are perfectly happy with the other. but Lula's mother. played by Diane Ladd, is a complete "nut job" and despises Sailor immensely. She cannot understand the happiness that her daughter experi­ences with him. She will do anylhing to keep Sailor from being with her daughter. 
The opening scene of the movie shows Sailor defending himself from a guy that Lula·s mother 
hired to kill him. The mother's anger becomes more furious when, artcr bning incarcerated for many yPars. Sailor gets out and plans on resuming his relationship with Lula. This time Lula's mother gets help from her Gangster buddy, Marcellos Santos, to put a murder contract on Sailor. She also sends her boyfriend. Johnny Farragout.. played by llarry Dean Stanton ("Alien"). to track the couple and bring them back in a less deadly manner. 
As is characteristic of practically every David Lynch film, an assortment of strange charactc1rs pop up at various stages of the couple's adven­tures. Some of them even have principle roles. Crispin Clover ("The People vs. Larry Flynt") plays the very comedic role of Jingle Dell. who's bizarre habits lead him to bdicvc thal alir.ns from outer space arc after him. But the weirdest and most effective supporting role is from Willem Dafoe ("The Last Temptation of Christ") as the dem1rnted Hobbv Varou. ,vl10 lrn.s an attraction to Lula as well as a n1ission to kill Sailor. 
There am many refr.rnnces to ''The Wizard of Oz" sr.a ttered throughoul the movie: Lula's mother is portrayed as the wicked witch ol' the west, Sailor gets advice from the good witch of' the north. and the couple's car journey is associated with the trip down the vellow 1.Jrick road. 
The mm' is visually stunning and well acted by all lhe lead and bit players. Though there are some scenes of extrnme sex and violencr.. these do not take away from the performances or from the story. At the 1990 Cannes Film Festival, "Wild at Heart" won Th!' Golden Palm (the festival's version of Best Picture). People who liked the films "Natural Born Killers" or "Bonnie and Clyde" should check out "Wild at Heart." Most people, however. probably have never seen a film like this. 

M 
.e E 
Thursday, March 2, 2000 page 13 

MOVIE REVIEW 
Quirky 'Wonder Boys' survives on its acting 
By JILLIAN DEPAUL 
Scene Movie Critic 
··wondPr Bovs," starring Michael Douglm; and it-b.oy Tobey Maguirf', is the long-awailPd follow-up to Curtis llanson's 1997 mastPrpicre "LA. Conlidf\ntial." a widf'ly praised mio-noir film about orga­nizf!d crinrn in 19:,0s Los 
book is 2.611 pages long and is still going strong. To add to this insanity, Grady gets mixed up in the lives of two of his students. One of these students L'i the mysterious James Loer (Tobey Maguirel, who may be homeless and suicidal or a pathological liar. but is definitely a ta.lentcd writer. The other student is Hannah Groen (Katie 

t\ngPiPs. "Wonder Boys"
Coinridcntallv, or not so r.oincidrn tallv, as the cas<' mav bP, Iianson's current p0 rojf';r:t .is about a profossor and writrr out offive shumrocks namPd Grady Tripp (Mirh,wl Douglas). Tripp Director: Curtis Hanson is strug-gling to finish his 

Starring: Michael Douglas,

long-awaited sAcond book, a follow up to his Tobey Maguire, Frances 
best selling first effort. McDormand, Katie Holmes and 
Prrhaps I lanson wanted 
Robert Downey Jr.

to brnadcn his horizons by dinicting a romedy or, more likely, he was attracted to this very pr.rsonal story. Either way, "Wonder Boys" is a consdous departure for the dirnctor, and a VBry interesting case of art imitating life. 
"Wondf\r Boys" is a quirky movie that tells the storv of one wild weekend when everything i~ Grady Tripp's life. and the lives of several other people, comes crash­ing down. For starters. his wife leaves him. llis mistress. Frances McDormand. who is also the chancdlor of the liberal arts college where he teachr,s, tells him slw is prngnant. Not to mention that his editor !Hobert Downey Jr.), who's in town for the annual Wordfest (think Sophomore Literary Festival), is trying to get a look at Grady's book, the ending of which. as Grady puts it, "heps getting further 
away." 
It would not be acr.urate to say that Grady has writer's block. In far.t, he suf­fers from a case quite the opposite. His 
Holmes). who rents a room from Gradv and has a crush on him. Other storvlines inr.lude a dead ·dog, a jacket that was worn by Marilyn Monroe and a crazv James Brown look-alike, whose name may or may not be Vernon. As this seflmin~ly dirnctionless film bar­rels on, it acquires new characters and new storvlines almost 
rornpulsively. As a result: pretty much everything in this movie is underdevel­oped. Although this is a detriment to the film because its characters and dia­logue are so original. it also manages to keep its audience interested through some prir.elessly funny moments and insightful narration by Michael Douglas along the way. 
It would be easy to cast this movie off as tangential and spineless, but that would be missing the point. The spine of the movie is all of these tangents. Hanson, who wove together thousands of r.haracters and sto­rylines so brilliantly in "L A. Confidential." has managed to do it again, almost. 
The film definitely spirals out of control at certain points. but it succeeds in illus­trating the r.entral idea that reflects Socrates' philosophy about life being the journey, not the destination. This is why the film's main character, Tripp, is so aptly named. Does this underlying mes-


Michael Douglas plays Grady Tripp, an English professor struggling to finish his novel in the offbeat comedy "Wonder Boys." 
sage justify the trite ending, which wraps up all the loose ends far too easily? Maybe. If you haven't written this film off before the final thought. you will probably buy that too. 
Despite the fact that the characters never reach their fullest potential, "Wonder Boys" is well-acted. It is always refreshing when Michael Douglas ("Wall Street," "A Perfect Murder") takes a break from playing sexual deviants and murder­ous business tycoons to portray a charac­ter with some heart and emotion. 
His co-star. Tobey Maguire, has definite­ly got that troubled, soft-spoken teenager thing down pat. There is something intriguing about his deliberate speech and pensive cadence, as seen in films like "The Cider House Rules" and "The Ice Storm." 
One of the most enjoyable things about "Wonder Boys" is its literary frame of mind. It is a film about a writer who sees the world as a piece of fiction. Grady finds truth and meaning in literature but has trouble translating that truth into reality, which is why his personal life is in sham­bles. The structure of this film purposely reflects the dilemma of his overdue book. The longer it gets, the further it gets away from the truth, which is actually quite sim­ple. 
"Wonder Boys" is an oflbeat film, origi­nal and creatively comic. What a long, strange "Tripp" it's been. 
Box OFFICE 


Weekend ofFeb. 25-27 
Rosanna Arquette Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales

and Matthew Perry play a newlywed couple who begin 1 . The Whole Nine $ 9.6 million $ 28.4 million to suspect their 
Yards 
new next door 

2. Snow Day $ 8.3 million $ 43.1 million
neighbor ( Bruce Willis) may be an 3. Reindeer Games $ 8.1 million $ 8.1 million assassin in the 4. Hanging Up $ 7.4 million $ 26.1 million black comedy "The 
5. Pitch Black $ 7.1 million $ 22.9 million
Whole Nine Yards." Despite a low earn-6. The Tigger Movie $ 6.3 million $ 30.6 million ings weekend, the 7. Wonder Boys $ 5.8 million $ 5.8 million film maintained its 
8. Scream 3 $ 5.1 million $ 78.1 million 
top spot over the children's comedy 9. American Beauty $ 4.6 million $ 87.5 million 
"Snow Day." 10. The Cider House $ 4.1 million $ 31.9 million 
Photo courtesy of Warner Bros 
Rules

Pictures Source: Yahoo! 

Jt\OVII OUOTI OF THI WIIR 
'7f there isn ·ta movie about it, it's not worth knowing, is it? .. 
Alan Rickman as Metatron in "Dogma" 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 2, 2000 
NHL 
Luck helps Sabres skate to 3-3 tie with Rangers 
Associated Press Wilh the game tied al 1, Regehr, Marc Savard, and tie it. Hill's power-play goal at Nedved started a 2-on-1 after Clarke Wilm also scored for Carolina pulled its goalie in 11 :05 made it 6-4. Curtis Brown's fluke goal forcing a turnover by Brian Calgary, which is 4-1-1 in its the final seconds and Roenick late in the third period com­Holzinger at the New York last six games. punched in his 30th goal of 
Canadiens 4, Blackhawks 1 

pleted a third-period rally for blue line. Johansson added three the season to clinch it. 
Shayne Corson, Patrick

Buffalo as the Sabres and He skated in with Hlavac assists. Roenick and Gary Hoberts 
Poulin and Saku Koivu scored

New York Rangers played to a and fed a cross-ice pass into Jarome lginla bad an assist got into a brief fight after the 
first-period goals and the

3-3 tie Wednesday night. the left circle. Hlavac's high on Savard's goal to extend his last goal and both finished the 
Montreal Canadiens went on

With 3:11 left in regulation shot beat Hasek at 13;01. point-scoring streak to 14 game in the penalty box. 
to a victory over the Chicago

and New York's John Then Nedved pressured games, tying him wilh Los lt was a short, miserable 
Blackhawks.

Maclean off for high-sticking, def'enseman Alexei Zhitnik Angeles Kings' Luc Robitaille night for Carolina goalkeeper 
Martin Hucinsky scored in

Brown senL a shot from the into making a terrible pass for the longest current streak Arturs Jrbe, who was pulled 
the third period for the

left boards that Mike Richter from behind the n1~t that went Scoring both goals for in favor of Mark Fitzpatrick 
Canadiens, who ended a two­

deflected with his stick off the right to Dvorak in the right Pittsburgh was Alexei after giving up bis third goal 
game losing streak.

leg of teammate Eric Lacroix circle. Dvorak quickly passed Kovalev, who reached the 20-13:21 into the game. 
Jeff Hackett made 23 saves

and into the net for Brown's to Hlavac for a one-timer that goal plateau. The Coyotes. who managed 
and Benoit Brunet had two

16th goal. made it 3-1. The Penguins are now win­just six goals in their 0-3-1 
assists for Montreal, 8-2-0 in

The Sabres, who have the The Czechmates line has 37 less in their last six (0-4-2) trip to the East, led 1-0 just 
its last 10 games.

league's worst power play. goals and 45 assists in 27 and are 1-6-3 this season 3:53 into the game on Adams' 
Steve Sullivan scored the 

were 1-for-4 with the man games since being formed on without Jaromir Jagr, who is 14th goal of the season. 
Blackhawks' lone goal. 

advantage. Jan. 5. Hlavac, second to out at least two more weeks The Covotes, who beat 
During the game, the

The Rangers were ahead 3-teammate Mike York among with a thigh injury. Carolina at home for the first 
Canadiens traded dcfenseman

1 starting the final period rookies with 17 goals, has St. Louis gave Calgary a 3-1 time since the franchise 
Vladimir Malakhov to the New

before Michael Peca's 17th accounted for 1 3 goals and 11 lead just 17 seconds into the moved to Phoenix in 199b, 
Jersey Devils for defensemen

goal got Buffalo within one. assists. second period, putting Jason then scored twice in a 25-sec­
Sheldon Sourav and Joshua

Neither team could score Peca, who also had a hat Wiemer·s centering pass ond span. 
DeWolf and a second-round

during a frenetic overtime trick Friday, made it 3-2 at behind Jean-Sebastien Aubin Letowski's shot deflected off 
drafl pick in 2001.

that saw Dominik Hasek make 7:31 of the third. for his first goal in 35 games. the stick of Hogue into the net 
Chicago center Doug

two sprawling saves. Buffalo took a 1-0 lead in Johansson also snapped an for Hogue's first goal of the 
Gilmour left the game during

Jan Hlavac scored twice in a the first, a period in which the 18-game drought when he season at 12:56 and Phoenix 
the second period, reportedly

three-minute span of the sec­Sabres outworked the opened lhe scoring 1:02 inlo led 2-0. 
because of' an impending

ond period for the Rangers, Rangers at both ends of the the first period. An instant later, Carolina's 
trade. However, a team offi­

who tallied all three goals ice. Rack-up goalie Peter Skudra Steve Halko couldn't control 
cial said Gilmour was ill.

within 4;59. Vaclav Varada made a per­came on in relief 2:26 into the the puck, and it went right to 
The Canadiens took a 3-0

New York, with 65 points, fect pass through the goal third period and surrendered Letowski, who scored his 13th 
lead in the first period on

wasted a chance to increase mouth to Tsyplakov, who Calgary's three final goals. goal of the season'and Irbe's 
power-play, shorthanded and

their lead over the Sabres to tapped in his eighth goal -rrom night was over. 
even-strength goals.

three points in the race for the left side of the net at 4:53. Carolina's scored when Ron
Coyotes 7, Hurricanes 5 Corson made it 1-0 during a
the Eastern Conference play­Adam Graves scored his Francis flipped the puck past
Jeremy Roenick scored his power-play at 9:49 when he
offs. 19th goal at 10:29 during a goalie Sean Burke in front of
team's final two goals, one swept the puck past Jocelyn
Both teams have 1 7 games power play to tie it and start the net to cut the lead to 3-1
short-handed and the other Thibault from the side of the
remaining. the second-period onslaught. at 14:00.
into an empty net to clinch net.
Hasek was 4-0-3 after miss­Phoenix scored three times
the victory with 21 seconds to While Montreal was down a
ing 40 games with a groin in the last 8:39 of the second
Flames 8, Penguins 2 play, as the Phoenix Coyotes man, Poulin extended it to 2-0
injury, but is 1-2-1 including period.
Valeri Bure had two goals came home from a winless with 6:36 left when he picked
a loss and tie to New York Adams had a slick assist
and two assists and Martin St. four-game road trop to hold of Michael Nylander's blind
since. when he del1ected teammate
Louis added a pair of goals as off the Carolina Hurricanes. breakout pass and cruised in
Before Friday's home Teppo Numinen's pass with
the Calgary Flames enjoyed Dallas Drake bad a goal and alone down the slot.
defeat, Hasek was 7-0-3 with his skates to Drake, who
their biggest outburst of the two assists for the Coyotes, Koivu gave the Canadiens a
five shutouts in his last 10 k·nocked it in from close range
season in a victory over the who had leads of 3-0 and 6-1 3-0 advantage with 1:45 left. 
starts against the Rangers. for his 11th goal this season
Pittsburgh Penguins. before Carolina scored four He slipped the behind the
Richter made 34 saves for and put Phoenix up 4-1 at
The Flames opened a 2-0 times in the third period after Blackhawks defense at center
New York and robbed 12:12 of the second.
lead seven minutes in to the Phoenix goalie Sean Burke ice, took a headman pass
Vladimir Tsyplakov with 44 Mike Sullivan's goal at
game, and Bure scored his left with a groin pull and was from Benoit Brunet and raced
seconds left in regulation. The 14:31 of the second made it 5­
32nd and 33rd goals of the replaced by Bob Essensa. in
Rangers were outshot by 1, then Roenick nailed a slap­
year during a five-goal third Trevor Letowski and Greg Sullivan cut it to 3-1 with
Buffalo 37-31. shot from the top of the right
period. Adams each added a goal and 5:45 left in the second period
It again was the Rangers' circle for a short-handed goal
The Flames moved within assist for the Coyotes. by completing a 2-on-1 with
Czech Republic line of Hlavac, that put the Coyotes up 6-1
one point of Colorado and San Paul Coffey and Sean Hill Nylander. Sullivan's shot from
Petr Nedved and Radek with nine seconds left in the
Jose in the Western had a goal and an assist a sharp angle bounded in off
Dvorak that victimized coun­second period. It was
Conference playoff race. apiece for Carolina. Hackett's pad.
tryman Hasek. Phoenix's 13th short-handed
The Avalanche and Sharks The Hurricanes cut the lead Rucinksy was credited with
On Friday, Nedved had his goal, most in the NHL.
are tied for seventh place in to 6-5 on Robert Kron's ninth a power-play goal at 5:04 the
third hat trick of the season in Martin Gelinas scored just
the battle for the final two goal of the season at 16:33 third when Trevor Linden's
the Rangers' 6-3 win, and this 35 seconds into the third peri­
playoff spots. and had the pressure on the rebound attempt apparently
time he set up Hlavac twice od, then Coffey added a goal
Andreas Johansson, Robyn rest of the way but couldn't deflected in off him. 
within 2;27. at 5:16 to cut the lead to 6-3. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 Somh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sal: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Mid Free Pick-Up & Delivery' Ca!l 631-COPY 
We're open late so your order will oe done on t1rne1 
GRADUATION ROOMS AVAIL­ABLE! Need hotel rooms for graduation weekend? There are still rooms available in the Michiana area for graduation 2000. For more information. please con­tac! Anthony Travel at 1x7080 or in the LaFortune basement. 
WANTED 
ASPIRING WRITERS! www.maincampus.com seeks stu­dents for stories ranging from Politics/Sex/Culture/Opinions $25 per story! Email us at: earn@maincampus.com 
FLOOR HOCKEY OFFICIALS Officials needed for Campus Floor Hockey. It's good money and good times! Experience helpful. but we do train everybody. Attend the mandatory officials meeting on Wed. 3/8 @ 7pm in Rolf's Sports Rec Center or contact Brandon Leimbach @ 631-3536 
WEB DESIGNER NEEDED National Publication has opening for designer to help improve and maintain existing sites. 277-0033 www.nkn.com 
ATTENTION SOUND ENGINEERS Local Sound Company has open­ings for experienced FOH engi­neers and stage hands. Call 277· 0032 www thesoundcompany com 
GRAPHIC LAYOUT International racing publication has opening for computer graphics lay­out person. Looking for fresh excit­ing designs to improve established magazine. Flexible hours. 277-0033 
Editor/proof reader needed to work with writers for national publication. Flexible hours. Call 277 -0033 
Job opportunity for reliable, self-motivated student to work for ortho­dentist. Run errands. make deliver-· ies, and light maintenance. Hours flexible. Call Mary, Shawn, or Stacey al 234-2143 between 8-4. 
FOR RENT 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE http://mmmrentals. homepage .comi email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595 
B'NB REGISTRY 219-291-715:3 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097 
1-bdrm Apt, walk in closet, parking space. In rnce residential area on a 

lake. 10 min drive from ND. $400/mo. $250 dep. Postgrad stu­dent or faculty only. No smoking, no alcohol. no party. Call 277-0189 betw 12-9pm. 
HOUSEMATE WANTED. Close to ND. Owner has pets. Kitchen privileges, large room and full basemen!. 
$300/rno. incl. all utilities. Call Mary at 287-1857. 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed­room, $1000/month. 2) 4-bedroom, $900/month. 3) 3-bedroom. $700. Call Bill ar 675-0776. We'll make almost any changes to the houses. 
FOR SALE 
New Phone Card 886 mins. $20 258-4805 or 243-9361 
PERSONAL 

www.thecommenlator.com 
FULL COLOR Copying 
Printing 

Scanning THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Call 631-COPY 
Was'sup Annunciata? 
J. Wall. I miss ya! 

Ali, where have you been all my life? 
AG It a true test: will he like the backer? 
who is writing backer-backer in the classifieds w/o my permission? I have a copyright on that, you know! 
Bruno's, prepare! 

Everyone who's anyone is gonna be there! Even Shirley!!II! 
How about thatA When was the last time you got a classified, Shirley? 
Marie, sorry tor calling every five minutes. If you flunk out of school, I take total blame. 
I hate hormonal boy-women. 
Chubby Rain-She can send you to the dog house to sleep with Hank and Indigo. By the way, I'm always here to be your late-night B.C. chauffer. 
Chubby Rain is a Vagina Warrior Wannabe. 
CK­I think people underestimate what we know but I don't want to know more about numbers relative to fin­gers. 
Pooh, Tigger and Piglet-Post-hump day here we come!II Watch out Heartland. 
Andrea and Mary Louise-You are wondertul neighbors, sort of. Have a fabulous day. 
Chemistry 2001­You know who you are, and you know why you are so cooL I have only one thing to say about this • succinate it!!! 
M.S.· Ifs spring, you know what that means -GO TRIBEl!!I 


Thursday, March 2, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
student union HAPPENINGS 
STUDENT UNION_BOARD --~ ~ . \__ . 
Movie: The World Is Not Enough. 03/02. Thursday. 101 OeBartolo. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. No food or drink. 03/03. Friday. 101 DeBartolo. 0800PM & 1030PM. 03/04. Saturday. 101 DeBartolo. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acoustlcafe. 03/02. Thursday. LaForlune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. Featuring the Dunn Brothers. 
Free Bus Trip to Michigan City Outlet Malls. 03/04 Saturday. Leaves Library Circle 1100AM. Returns 0430PM. Sign up at Lafortune Info Desk. 
Bubba's KIiier Sauce Mystery Theater. 03/06. Monday. Lafortune Ballroom. 0800PM. Tickets: $2 LaFortune Info Desk. 
NAZZ Applications Available. Now. SUB office (201 LaFortune). Due by March 10. 

03/08. Wednesday. Lafortune Ballroom. 0S00PM. 

' " " • -,-<I
STUDENT GOVERNMENT (. 
I --~ ·~---·, ---• ( ' -• ' 
Student Services Week. 
03/02. Thursday. South Dining Hall. 0500PM-0730PM. Karaoke. 03/02. Thursday. The Grotto. 0800PM. Prayer Service. 03/03. Friday. 1st floor of LaFortune. 0400PM. Year 2000 Time Capsule Event. 
Lafortune Hours will be extended to 0400AM during the weeks before and after Spring Break. 
Student Leadership Award applications are available In the Student Activities Office. 

03/05. Sunday. Annenberg Auditorium. 0200PM. FIim of the new wave movement (Snlte) with guest French film speclallst Michel Marie. 


MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 

Battier leads Duke to solid victory over Clemson 
Associated Press 
Chris· Carrawell has lived with Duke's high expectations for years so he wasn't going to let teammate Shane Battier or the fourth-ranked Blue Devils settle for just a r:arner night. 
Despite Ilattier·s career-high seven 3­pointers and Duke's 19th straight Atlan lie Coast Confornnce road victory, Carrawell wanted more after the 92-78 win over Clemson on Wednesday 
night. . 
"How many did he have? Seven'?" Carrawell asked. "I told him he should have had 12. He choked." 
"The always loquacious Chris Carrawell. every­body," answered Battier, who had 26 points. 
In the past month, the Blue Devils (23-4, 14-1) lost at home to Maryland and St. John's. Thev were without key reserve Mike Dunleavy, who returned from his home in Oregon to Durham, 
N.C. on Wednesday to 
continue recovery from mononucleosis. And the Tigers (10-18, 4-11) are playing better than their record. 
"We've had to live with the expectations for a long time now," said Carrawell. who scored 19 points. "For us to accom­plish all we want, we have to handle them. This was part of it. This gets us ready for the weekend." 
That's when North Carolina comes to Cameron Indoor Stadium, where Duke hasn't been its dominat­ing self. 
"We're not the Duke team that we were a few weeks ago," coach Mike Krzyzewski said. "But we're still fighting like crazy. If we can keep get­ting better while Dunleavy's gune, maybe when he comes back we'll be a better basket­ball team." 
ff Battier, a junior, and Carrawell, a senior, play like they did at Littlejohn Coliseum. Krzyzewski might not worry so much. 
Battier seven 3-point-
The University ofNotre Dame Department of Music Guest Artist Series presents the 
ers broke his career bt1st by one and Carraweil clamped down on ACC leading scorer Will Solomon as the Blue Devils recovered from Saturday's onc-poiut home loss to No. 18 St. John's. 
Battier was almost per­fect from long range in the first half, going 6-of­
7. and sent Duke to its eighth straight victory over Clemson. 
Solomon, thP league's top scorer at 20.6 points a game, had 26 points, but Carrawell harassed him throughout and he was 10-of-26 from the field. 
Tho Blue Devils havr, been so dominant the past four seasons -with four consecutive ACC titles -that any slip has some wondering what's wrong. It happened Feb. 
9. when Maryland ended their 31-garrie ACC win­ning streak. And it hap­pened again this week as the Heel Sturm became just lhe third mmconfer­onco team in 130 games to win at Cameron Indoor Stadium. 

Batticr's 3-point bar­rage quickly shut down Clemson's hopes of end­ing Duke's ACC road win­ning streak. 
"When someone starts making shots like that, they get in a zone," said Solomon, someone who should know. 
Battier's baskets almost all came at crucial moments. 
Ho hit two straight dur­ing a personal 8-0 run as Duke moved ahead 16-9. He had twn more during a 9-4 run that put the Blue Devils up 27-17. His last, off a crisp inbounds pass from Carrawcll, closed an 11-0 spurt that sent Duke to a 38-22 lead. 

Boston Brass 
Saturday, March 4, 2000 

invests for the lonjterm,
8:oo pm, Washington Hall 
" Tickets: 

it's nice to see performance
$3 Students; $6 Seniors; $8 ND/SMC; $10 GA 

RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
While TIAA-CREF 

Combine this with our low expenses and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from the competition. 


With over $250 billion in assets, we're the world's largest retirement company and the leading choice on America's campuses. If that sounds good to you, consider this number 1 800-842-2776. Call and find out how TIAA-CREF can work for you today and tomorrow. 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
I .Toe-investment results shown for the CREf variable annuity reflect past performance dnd are not indi<:atiVe of future rates of return. These retu_rns and the value ofthe prin­dpal you have invested will nuc.tuate, so the shares you own may be more or le5s than their origina! price upon redemption. Foreign stock markets are subject to addltional 
~~~~!~~h~~;;;1:~;:_~1;i!~!.SJ~~~~~s~!!~1~i~u;~~~:,~ir~:~0,~:~,'U'::~~~~~ia~i~~;1~~c:-~:~,~d;1~~1-;,,RJin~Fut7:n!r~:~~2J!fn~d~~~j:~::~Ra;;;e~! 
tifitat~ and mterests in the TIM Real Estate Account. Teachers Personal hweston Service!.,Inc.distributes the va,table component of the personal annuities, mutual funds and tuit.On savings agreements.11AA and TIAA-CREF Ufe Insurance CO. is'iue insuranc-e and annuities. TIAA-CREFT(Ust Company, FSB provides trust services, lnYMtment products are not FDIC in,urecl,mai lose value and are not bank guaranteed. For more complete informationon CREF, including charge, and expenses, call 1800842-2776,ext. 5509,for 
the prospectus. Read it carefully before you invest ors.end n"IOney. Cl 2000 TIAA-CREF 1/00. 
-----------------------, 
Thursday, March 2, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS 

' 
W I 
' 
I 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Jarvis comillits to Irish for fall season 
California. In 1998, his team 
Special to The Observer 
advanced to the quarterfinals of the Dallas Cup and wonHrian Jarvis, a forward/mid­three tournament crowns.
fielder from Pomona, Calif., 
"Brian's athleticism is his
has become the seventh high strongest asset," Notre Dameschool senior to sign a national 
assistant coach Chris Apple
letter of intent to play soccer says. "He adds great speed,at Notre Dame in the fall of 
strength and power to our
2000. 
incoming freshman class. _HisThe 6-foot-1, 1CJ5-pound versatility allows him to playsenior was a two-year starter in several dif­
at Damien High 
"He adds great speed, ferent posi­
where he twice tions on the
earned all-Sierra strength and power to 
field, Brian league honors. our incoming freshman instinctivelyLast season, 
class." finds the back
Damien advanced 
of the net. His to the finals of the ability to be aCIF Division I play­Chris Apple 
target and a
offs after winning 
assistant coach goal scorer 
the Sierra League will give uschampionship and 
added bal­
winning both the El Rancho 
ance on offense."
and Montclair tournament 
Jarvis will join midfielder
titles. 
Filippo Chillemi;
In addition, Jarvis played for 
midfielder/defender Justin
the Corona Eagles since May of Detter; defender Greg Martin;
1997. In 1999, he led the forward/midfielder Devin
Eagles to the tournament 
Prescod; midfielder Kevin
championship at the Las Vegas Richards; and midfielder Chad
Invitational and helped his 
Riley who signed national let­squad advance lo the quarter­ters of intent in February.
finals of the National Cup in 
What are you worth? "'Why Not Put It In Writing?" 
By Jim Lenox, CLU 
Notre Dame, IN "Nothing gave me as much co'lfidence in going to ajob interview than knowing I was worth $5001000 and I had it in writing!'; 

Awards  of  the  
Albert  Ravarino  
Italian  Studies  
Travel  Scholarship 

Having your life value unrlerwritten by a major financial instituion looks good on your resume .. .it demonstrates your self confidence. Better yet, obtain your coverage for the Lowest Cost Possible. 
If you want to cut the price of your life insurance, I advise you to Call the Number below. Get a copy of the Eye-Opening Report that reveals how to Sm,e Hundreds, possibly Thousands, on life insurance. Avoid the mistake ofever paying to much. To get a Free Report call toll free, 1-800-668­9273 around the clock for a free recor4ed message. There is no charge for this service. And there is no one on the lelephone to hassle you. "I must say it's r1?'freshing to see that sunieone ls final­ly givin'g the average consumer the scoop ahout life in.sum nee prices." 

MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Harris carries Volunteers to win 
and followed with two free on Thursdav. Ohio State can throws to put the Vols ahead assure itself of a share of the 
Tonv Harris scored 18 of his 51-49. conference championship for 23 points in the sflcond half to Johnson tied the game at 55-the first time in eight years by lead No. 11 Tennessee to a 73-55 with two free throws on a beating Minnesota on 
66 victory over Arkansas on team technical called after a Saturday. Wednesday night. 
Associated Press 

Tennessee fan hurled an Redd came into thi> game The win gave Tennessee a orange onto the court. averaging 26.4 points against school-record 23 victories, But Vincent Yarbrough, hit a the Lions, and he had his usual :1-pointer to put Tennessee big night. But Reese had the
breaking a mark set in 1976­77, and moved it into a tie with ahead 58-55 with 5:22 to play. clutch points when Penn State Kentucky l'or second place in 
The Vols never trailed again rallied from a 14-point deficit the Southeastern Conference's as Harris scored eight of in the final minutes. East Division. Tennessee's final 15 points and Jon Crispin had 14 points, The Volunteers (23-5, 11-4) 
built their largest lead of the and he sparked the Lions' struggled for most of the game game at the end. comeback, hitting consecutive against the Razorbacks {14-14, 
3-pointers to pull Penn State
No. 6 Ohio State, 79 

within 65-61 with 5:31 to play. leader Joe Johnson, who fin­Penn State 73 But after a timeouL. Reese6-CJ) and SEC freshman scoring 
ished with 21 points. Michael Redd had 22 points drove in for a layup, then hit a Tennessee had to score the and George Reese added 16, 15-footer to make it 69-61. including eight over the final Stephens made three foul
last eight points of the half, keyed by two 3-pointers by Jon 
five minutes, as No. 6 Ohio shots and Joe Crispin scored State beat Penn State to move
Higgins. to take a 28-27 half­on a fast break to pull Penn 
into first place in the Big Ten. State within three points, thentime lead. 
C.J. Black, Tennessee's The Buckeyes (21-5, 12-3) Heese scored on a putback. Joe 
career block shot leader, are alone at the top -at least Crispin hit a fallaway jumper,for a day. Michigan State can 
but Reese hit a jumper from join them by beating Minnesota 
denied Blake Eddins in one of the top of the key. 
his four blocks for the game 

Announcing the Year 2000 Annual 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2000 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,500, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
l)  an  explanation  of  how  the  proposed  research  or  foreign  study  
will  enhance  their  degree  program  at  Notre  Dame  
2)  a  personal  statement  indicating  their  background,  interests,  and  
long-term  goals  
3)  a  description  of  the  research  project  or  the  program  they  intend  
to  follow  
4)  a  budget  indicating  the  costs  involved  
5)  the  names  of  two  references.  
Application  Deadline:  Friday,  March  10th,  2000  
Albert  Ravarino  Italian  Studies  Travel  Scholarship  
Program  in  Italian  Studies  
343  O'Shaughnessy  Hall  
University  of  Notre  Dame  

First Hound {March 10., 11, 12} Tickets are on f«le now!l P/ay~Jn Game {March 14} Tickets also available!! r.Y.llf P $11 Adults, $6 Students tr Youth
As::+,'? I ,,;,{.fi 
CENTRAL "'~
COUfCll~TE---~ 
HOCKEY ASSOCIAT/0-... ............_

,., ••••••••••
"­

Student Ticket Pick--Up -----" &-March 7th -{First 150 are free.} Gate 3 Ticket Windows $6 utter the 150 free tickets 


Thursday, March 2, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
BASEBALL 
Senior Cavey named co-Big East pitcher of the week 
and eight groundouts, with Geremy Goldsberry drew a 

Special to the Observer om\ hit and one walk full-count walk before mov­allowed during his 20 bat­ing up on a pair of ground­
Notrr. Dame senior 
ters faced (the game was outs. Rut Cavey struck out righthandPr Scott CavP.y seven innings and opened Ryan Carville· to end the from Omaha, Nebraska, 
the Service A1;ademies inning.

has betm named co-Big 
Classic, at USA BasPball Laf3asco could have man­Fasl C:onforcnce pitcher of 

Stadium in Millington, aged a triple on his two-out the week in the first awards Tenn. I. Tbe lanky hit in the third inning, hut 
of tho 2000 season, after 
righthand~H retired the he stumbled prior to touch­allowing just onr hit in six 

innings ol' a (1-0 win ovrr 
aftPr yifllding a two-out Cavey thirn struck out 

i\ir hircP on FPb. 24. 
double to leadoff hitter Hrnndan Shannon on four 

Cavrv -who shared the 
Brian LaBascu in the third pitches and the Falcons award\,vith Hutgers junior inning. managed no more baserun­righthandPr lim Wilson ­Air Force's best scoring ners the rest of the way. 

turnnd in a 78-pitch outing chanco r,ame in the second Cavey boosted his career that included six strikeouts 
inning, when r!Panup hith'r record to 10-1, with a J.64 career ERA, 83 strikeouts and 20 walks in 101 and one-third innings pitched. He has anraged just 
6Jfte ~~ S{>rlz~ 
1n

= 

I. 78 walks per

=
·­
Art <Hist°"'! w,d C,.lttclsm nine innings

"' 
= ~ 
durcing his career, with a

"C 
11'.e ~rtmE-n-t of Art, Art History and Design 4.15 career

C 
is plea-.:! to 1UU1.oum:e its a.nnual com~tit.ion

co 
strikeout-to-walk 
for the Riley P:d;i;e in Art Histl;l.q' & C:.rit:k~r:n 
ratio.

-~ 
C"rn,nt Notr41 D.ll.JTIQ ut1de,gr.1.du;at"' and 
Cavey's last 11

C 
guduat• 1tudel\ts arE invited to submit essays 
appearances

en 
on a:ny topic in the 1-1:sto•.-y of art: or art 1.:rit1d.sn1 
include a 7-0

= 
for considll!raticn in t:r.e c0r.1petition. Essays·­
record, a 2.49
mus'-° deal with the visual a;-ts. The;-may h'ave

'C 
been writwn in conjun-:ticn with a cours-e taker ERA, 44 strike­

cc
.. 
at t..~ University, bu! need not have been. outs and just five 

= 'C 
walks in 54.1 innings. During

"­
Rules governing thoi! competition a::~·•vail.able that span. he in the Art Ixp.artm~nt Offi<:~. Two ,;;opi~ oI owns an 8.8 

0 
C 
the suh:rnission mu~t be deliv.,n,d to tt,.e A-ct strike-to-walk

-
cu 
Depa.rtmimt Office, 132 O'ShaughP~5Y Hall, 
ratio and has

E 
by ~,OO PM, Fdd.y, Ma.rch :n, tQ be eligi('le. A 
averaged just

L., 
student~ o;niy 9\J.l:>.mif ONE entry. 

-
0.83 walks per

(t, 
a. 
nine innings. 

11 Q cu
~~-~!!l'i!!!!!!'!!!---!!!!!i!!!!!!!!!~-J 
Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 
O{]@@~Lf[1@[ru®0®COLLeGe n1GHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
$1 Co•l:ER (with college I.D., must be 21) 
W' J and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. 
222 S. Michigan • South Bend • (219) 234-5200 Gall the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251~2568 More pictures online every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 


MONTGOMERY GENTRY 
F<Zir.:::>t,r'-(, 'VV\A<Z.LH \~ 


JEFF HSU/The Observer Senior pitcher Scott Cavey was named co-Big East pitcher of the week. Cavey has a career ERA of 3.64 and a career record of 10-1. 

T 

Make no mistake, Chicago Steakhouse serves amazing steaks, pasta, salads and more that seem like they should be pricey (hut aren't) and features a fun, casual atmosphere you don't have to get dressed up for ( wtless you want to). Great for groups, too. 
222 S. Michigan • South Bend • 219.234.5200 
www.aceplaces.com/heartland 


I want to be a professional athlete, not a role model 

What I want to be when I grow up: 
Someday I want to bo a pro­fl'ssional athlete. I want to hear the crowds cheering for me. I want to be on televi­sion so that all of the little kids can look up to me. But I don't want to be a role model. [ just want them to watch me play sports, not anything else. That's my private life. 
I want to make a lot of money. That way I can buy too many expensivt~ cars, wear lots of jewelry and bribe the cops just like Sebastian Janikowski did. 
If I have a lot of money, then l can behave any way that I want like Dennis Rodman. Go ahead, fine me a $13,500 in five games this season; I make $12,195 per game. I'll make it back in just over a game. 
Plus, Rodman doesn't even have to go to practice or do anything but show up for the games. 
My coach always tells me to practice like I want to play, but I think he's full of it. 

Dennis doesn't haVf" to, why do 
I? 
Sometimes I just want to choke my roach, like LatrPII Spreewell. Things worked out pretty well for him. Now he's on a better team and evcrvone loves him. He's the Ameri~an dream. I didn't see any shop, contracts before he choked him. That would feel good. Next time the r:mi.ch makes me nm. maybe I'll choke him. 
All of the pro athletes get away with anything they want. I want to get away with every­thing too. No one ever g«>ts pros in trouble, unless they do something really bad like com­mit murder. Even then, they c.an usually hire Johnny Cochran to get them off. 
They can beat their girl­friends like Lawrence Phillips or drink too much like Steve Howe. They can do drugs like Leon Lett or get prostitutes like Eugene Robinson. If' they wanl to they can do both like Daryl Strawberry and Michael Irvin. 
The best thing is that even when they do get in trouble, they get lots of chances. How many has Daryl had? And everyone just feels sorry for the athletes if they get caught. 
They get some great dis­counts at department stores because everyone recognizes them, especially at Dillard's. I hear that's where some of the best athletes hang out. You have to be good for that 
AVOIDING 
ATICKET IS ASNAP 
'100 COtlD LEARN ALOf FROM ADUMMY.• 
U.S.~olT...,.....­.,.___ &t.any r ••U.S. DCT. ~ 
I I Gateway Vincentian Volunteers 
Workingf Praying, Living.. .in the spirit of Vincent de Paul 
This may be the time to take a year and live in service to the poor. 
Become a Gateway Vincentian Volunteer! 
1-888-771-7220 gatevol@aof.com 
though. For most athletes, that's just stealing. For a good athlete, it's a gift from God. 
And talk about being popu­lar. Pro athletes gel all of the girls. They have lots of' kids too; kids that peoplo want them to take care ol'. I wish I were a pro star's kid. Then Im could send me $1,000 per month in child support from bis million-dollar check. Everyone would call him a good dad and I'd agree. I could brag to everyone that my dad was Shawn Kemp. 
I'd love to see him maybe once a year, but athletes arc busy, he probably wouldn't have time for me. Oh well 
People say that sports have too much violence, but I don't think so. Some of my favorite stuff is the fighting. Marty McSorely is so cool. Oid you see the way he jacked up that guy? Sometimes I think the only thing that's interesting about hockey is the lighting and the violence. 
Or how about when the baseball players brawl? They 

THE TASTY BACON CHEDDAR WHOPPER: 
T H I N K O F I T A S A W H O P P ER® T H A T ' S 
DRESSED UP WITH SOMEPLACE TO GO. 

THE WHOPPER• WITH A  NEW  TWIST  FOR  A  LIMITED  TIME,  
--------·­-·--·-· -­ 

If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger,"* why not try it a;h-ole.new way? With crispy bacon and melted cheddar cheese, it's sure to put a smile on your face. So head to a BURGER KING® restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
The Huddle • Lafortune Student Center 

get suspended sometimes, but the cops stay out of it. 
People shouldn't criticize them so much. They have a tough job and have to release their tension somehow. It's only natural to want to light. 
Being an athlete has a lot of hard things too though, like watching what you say. I learned in class about the first amendment stating that I can say whatever I want no matter the ignorance. stupidity or meanness of it. 
But for athletes, that doesn't apply. I mean look at John Rocker and Reggie White. Well, at least John Rocker, nothing really happened to Reggie. He's the most hated man in sports and for good reason. What he did was wrong. He shoul<l've gone and snorted cocaine instead. At least then, fans would be sad instead of mad. 
Athletes can't bet either. But I wouldn't do that. I know how bad that is. Look at Pete Rose. He bet and they won't let him ever come back to baseball. I agree. Baseball can't risk ruining its reputation by let­ting a gambler back in. They should just stick to people that throw firecrackers at little kids like Vince Coleman or wife-beaters like Wil Cordero or even players that play hard all the time and appreciate the fans like Albert Belle. 
Des pile all of those tough things though. I want to grow up just like those guys. That way, kids like me now can try to be like me when I grow up. But I don't think I should havu to be a role model. I want them to want to be like me, but not to BE like me. 
Sincerely, 
Your everyday kid 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 
.,, 
Thursday, March 2, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

Insight 
continued from page 24 
kept on coming back and maki plays and making shots." 
Every time Thomas or game­high scorer Ryan Blackwell nailed a basket. the Irish answered, whether with an !\BA-length 3.-pointer by Dillon, a rebound tip-in by sophornorc forward David Graves or a 3­pointer by freshman Mike 1\Ionserez. 
"You've got to come out with your hfiad high," Graves said. "A 1 (,-point margin against a team like that, that's arguably the best team in the Big East, arguably the best team in the rountry. It's a credit to us that we came back, but we just dug ourselves too big of a hole." 
But in the end, Notre Dame's sixth man -the student body -helped Syracuse stave off the Notrn Dnmr attack. 
After an intentional foul was called on Graves with 8.8 sec­onds remaining, a Notre Dame student threw an empty plastic bottle onto the court, resulting in a technical foul against Notre Dame. A two-point Irish deficit quickly turned into five, and Troy Murphy's 1-pointPr with 0.7 seconds remaining was not enough to pull the Irish over the hump. · 

"It's part of the game," Graves said. "We've been in a lot of close games. Some plays have gone our way; some things haven't. You can't blame it on the fans. The fans are the rea­son why we are in the position that we are. They've been great all year." 
Notre Dame's decision to fight to the finish is one that has been made throughout the year. 
Back in November, Notre Dame let ranked opponent Indiana leap out to a 17 -0 advantage, then battled back to send the game to overtime. 
Against conference foe West Virginia on Feb. 2, Notre Dame turned things around from a 51­40 deficit to the second half to win 79-65. 
In the Irish home victory over the Connecticut Huskies, the Irish trailed by as many as nine before bringing their "A" game to the floor. 
Perhaps the Irish are pleased with their ability to come back, but they also realize that early ruts are difficult to return from. 
"We've just got to be ready to play two halves," Dillon said. "We've got to be ready for 40 minutes, not 20." 
Notre Dame's refusal to go down for the count is a season­long affair. Predicted to crowd around the bottom of the Big East, Notre Dame opened its season with an upset victory over returning Final Four team Ohio State. 
After winning the first four games of their season, Notre Dame dropped four straight against quality opponents ­Arizona, Maryland, Indiana and Vanderbilt. A week later, it suf­fered one of its most crushing defeats of the season, a 16-point loss against a mediocre Miami (Ohio) team. Sitting at 4-5 on the year, naysayers again began to discount the Irish. 
They responded with a seven­game winning streak, capped ofT by a 7 5-70 road win over the defending national champion Connecticut Huskies. 
Whenever it seemed the Irish were ready to fold, they sur­prised someone with a win. Nearly ruled out of NCAA con­tention after falling on the road at Pittsburgh and Villanova, Notre Dame earned two-point victories over both Connecticut and Seton Hall. 
Only this time, they don't have time to recover. 
"This team has a lot of char­acter," Graves said. "We're not going to quit." 
Only a Saturday match against the Georgetown Hoyas and the Big East tournament remain as chances to convince the NCAA tournament selection committee that they deserve a trip. 
"You talk about your backs being to the wall," Doherty said. "Our backs are through the wall right now." 
The Irish have proven their critics wrong before. They would like nothing more than to do so one more time by winning the Big East tourney to head to March Madness for the first time in 10 years. 
Don't count the Irish out just yet. They could be the Cinderella team of the 2000 tourney. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer


COLU~BIA UNIVERSITY'S 

A total immersion experience Environmental science in Arizona -16 Ivy League credits Earth Semester/Universe Semester: September-December 2000 WtM. bi o2. edu 1 800-992-4603 email -arizona@bio2.edu 

ANDRE HOUSE 
PHOENIX, AZ AND OAKLAND, CA 
COME TO OUR OPEN HOUSE AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
MONDAY, MARCH 6, S-8 PM 
Fi.nd out about the service opportunities offered at these two Andre House locations. We have openings for full­time staff positions beginning this summer. Come to the CSC to find out more. There will be an infonnation session at 7 pm ..... Food and refreshments will be there tool 
+ 

The Andre House is sponsored by the Holy Cross Priests and Brothers 
Thursday, March 2, 2000
page '.22 The Obser/!er . SPORTS 


M. Bball 
continued from µage 24 
the Irish. 

"It shouldn't have come down to that." senior point guard Jimmy Uillon said. "We gut down by 14 and dug our­selves a hole. Yeah it's a piv­otal point in tho game and wo wish it didn't happen." 
Tim Irish wish the first half didn't happen either. Syracuse made five of its first six 3­pointers and jumped out to an early double digit load. Preston Shumpert, who killed the Irish in the teams' first meeting, made all four of his shots including three 3-point­ers. 
Rvan Blackwell was also 
unstoppable, pulting up 15 
points in the first half. 

"They are a tough team to play zone against," Doherty said. "Thev have a lol of' intor­changeab.le people that are tough to match up against. Shumpert was just ridiculous in the first half. 
I think he is gr,tting me back for nol recruiting him at Kansas. I challPnged tlrnir manhood at halftime and tlrny showed their character. They didn't quit.·• 
Notre Damr. playing man­
to-man clP-fonse and going 
with a smaller lineup in the 
second half. mounted a 
charge and cut the lead to one 
with 2:50, but Jason Hart's 
five points down the stretch and thrc closing s1\qucnce slammed the door on Notre Dame's hope for the upset. 
"Our kids showed great character and didn't quit." Doherty said. "We beat them by 12 points in tlrn second half, but two [losses! is a trend. but we just made it a third. \'\'e need to right this ship quickly." 
Blackwell finished with a game-high 24 points for the Orangemen, who clinched at least a tie for the Big East regular season crown. Etan Thomas finislrnd with 15 points and 'l 6 rebounds, while IIart added 16 poin Ls and six assists. 
The Orangcmcn shot 51 per­cent for the game and uutre­bou n d f'd the Irish, :n-27. Svracm,e outscored Notre o·arne. 40-20 in the paint. 
Murphy scnrf'd 20 points and grabbed six boards in a losing effort for the Irish. Freshman Jern Macura came off the bench to score 12 points in 21 minutes of' play and Graves added nine points and six rebounds. Notrn Dame connected on l 2-of-21 shots {57 percent.) from bPhind the arc. 
Irish captains Skylard 
Owens and Todd Palmer got 
the start on senior night. 
Owens scored Notre Dame's 
first basket and Palmer later 
added a 3-pointer. 

Notrn Dame travels to the 
nation's capital Saturday to 
take on Georgetown in the 
regular-season finale. 
LIZ LANG!The Observer 
Jere Macura (left), Allen Griffin (12) and Troy Murphy scramble for a loose ball in Wednesday's 

Recycle The Observer. 
game. 

Bookstore Basketball Sign Up Today!! 



Bookstore E-mail: Bkstrbll.1@nd.edu

2000 
EARLY SIGN-UPS THIS WEEK  FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE  
ONLY 812  MONDAY-FRIDAY 8pm-9pm  
TUESDAY-FRIDAY 11 am-2pm  

BECAUSE/HEBEIINIBEAii/iNITTlPLAT 
Thursday, March 2, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
ALL RIGHT, PAIGE, I'M 
IMHT SEHiND 'You. WE CAN Do THIS. 
\ 
:L t)O~j"'[ V"-'DERS,,..NO. •• -AWO l"t\EN Wl\r.N '{ou R\/N 

cu..ss.ou~ To 
H>.IIE '{ov EVER RUNLC/ol LOIJ~ 13U.O<:,Ol~S \-\/>.VE: APl'L'r' 11-\/>.1 iotlA'r'S ll~Ll' 
0~ !,oaS "WC T>l:llCEO ,o '{ou f;IIE.~ 60WE Wli\lOUi' 'f.lE.AR Bl"-l.l<: OliES BEci:>.USt.. SoLl'-'> .;:-.J,1Ra-Y1 Yov FK.;VR£D No O~E -r. .SV!"PO'S~ :! ""\IE \tJOV(.~ \)Oil<-~ lltN'(l»l,n ~E~11•.• 
JuST WALK OUT OF 11iE 
AAAAA!
SToRE. No ONE WILL SuSPEcT ATHING. THE MOST IMPoR· OoN'T SHoor, TANT THING IS lb NoT DRAW 
1/ •\.
AmNTtoN To ouRSELVES. 
_) \rn
GJ~ 
~ LOC>W.:.. H\(,I\ ~TiE~OP.\U 
o '<OVR WE' N,¥-. Tt-l>-i 
BILL AMEND 
FALSE ALARM. SUPPOSE, JUST A HYf'oTHET1CALL~ 
CASH ll-lATWEHAVE 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

nATIOnRL E.fflBRRA55mEnT, 16 ORRn[E 
/\ I 
beam 1@nd.edu 
52 Isn't inert 56 Neighbor of 
Curac;:ao 59 Saharan land 61 He had a 
hammer 62 Gardner created 
him 63 Writer Turgenev 64 Hawkeyes' 
home 65 Influences 66 It may be stuck 
out 67 Confesses, with "up" 
DOWN 
1 Order request 
2 Hashana 3 Saatchi & Saatchi award 4 Headless horseman? 
5 Brown fur 6 Former Cabinet 
department 7 Way out 8 Heartless 
villain? 9 Expect 10 Endless 
journey? 11 Milk, in a way 12 Half a score 13 Prohibition 21 Shuttle, perhaps 23 QB, at times 26 Staggered 

Puzzle by Jeremy Thomas Paine 
27 Total, say 49 Manhattan, for one
28 Derby victory margin 51 Set aside 
29 Kind of year 53 Grub 30 Fifth-century 54 Hamlet's cousin scourge 55 Mmes., in Madrid
31 _ Island, N.Y. 
32 Bottomless pit? 

HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, MARGI 2, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jon Bon Jovi, Lou Reed, Laraine Newman, Al Waxman, Gabriele Tarquini, Doc Watson, Torn Wolfe, Mikhail Gorbachev, Desi Arnaz, Dr. Seuss, Jennifer Jones 
Happy Birthday: You'll gain ground if you are organized and con­centrate on what you want to accom­plish. You will come into contact with individuals who can helf and support your ideas. You wil find new methods and technology that will make your life simpler. Reflect on the past and you will avoid mak­ing mistakes. Your numbers: 12, 17, 25, 27, 31, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't spend too much on your lover or on unnecessary luxury items. Short trips that won't cost an arm and a leg should be your goal. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your fight for an underdog may not be successful. Don't let your anger consume you in such a manner that you let other important matters go unattended. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't get -involved in disputes. You will damage your reputation not only with friends but with employers as 
56 Some rush-hour well. Work diligently without com­
plaints and rewards will be yours.
periods: Abbr. 

000
57 Wet behind the 

CANCER Qune 21-July 22): Your 
ears 

bills may be more than you can han­58 Cable network 
dle right now. Talk to an older mem­ber of the family or someone in a
60 Fond du_, 

position to help you consolidate your Wis. debts. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Difficul­ties with neighbors or employers 
EUGENIA LAST 

make your own choices. Stress may 
cause minor medical problems. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): Your 
sensitive nature will allow others to 
read you well. Don't give out private 
information about yourself unless 
you're prepared to have them talk 
behindyour back. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your emotional life is still suffering. You must take a step backward, analyze yourself and get busy making the changes necessary to rekindle the family ties you have demolished. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21):Your stubborn nature may cause you plen­ty of grief ifyou refuse to see a loved one's point of view. Don't take dras­tic measures just to prove a point; minor injuries will result. 0000 
SAGTTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
New career objectives will fall into place. You will be well-received by colleagues who are eager to get on your good side. Be careful signing binding contracts. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make extra cash. Plan a garage sale; get rid of items that you no longer have a use for. You can come up with new and innovative ideas concerning your career. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't bring your troubles at work home. Your mate will already be looking for an argument. A cheerful approach with an invitation to din­ner out will be your best bet. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone you work with may try to cover up errors that will come back to haunt you. Check work carefully to avoid such yroblems. Romance will be yours i you socialize with friends. 0000 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
Roguish 5 Has chits out 9 Less than right? 
14 Concerto features 15 Get ready to fly 16 More sound 17 Speller's phrase 18 Svelte 19 Where the action is 20 Eastern flycatcher 22 Debaters' need 24 Big _, Calif. 25 Seven, e.g. 29 Some protests 32 An itemized deduction 
34 Same, by the Seine 35 "Take the Limit" 36 Tums state's evidence 37 Marquee filler 38 Jazzrnan Getz 39 Pamplona parent 40Chug-_ 41 Ticket ·42 Arab leader 43 Let off steam 
44 A Baldwin 45 Heart of a Baldwin 
46 Dor EEE 47 Wool fat 49 Dyslexic's deity? 50 Sign of neglect 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
P -+--+--1--C T E 


A B E 
S I N ___..__._...._...._ L E A 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle should not be confronted. Arguing
33 Prefix with line 

are available by touch-tone phone: won't help the situation. It is best to 
or mine 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

36 Coins Birthday Baby: You're into everything and curious about how things
Annual subscriptions are available for the 

work You are forever taking things apart, but not always putting them back
46 Anguish 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 together. You are always striving to understand more and in earnest pursuit 48 Lists years: 1-888-?-ACROSS. of what life has to offer. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvke.com, eugenialast.com, aslromate.com.) 10 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 

sat/SunMillleslfeld1D 
Colf.ChalluonshilS IJJJIJIIIII 
Iii/Sal AlexWlson lnulalional 5-.30,mlt(Jam SIIUflaJVS.IIMa ,_,,& SlfflaJ vs.#21 Kellucb 12:IJIJ,m 
0~ 


Pitching Honors 
Scott Cauey threw his way to Big East pitcher ofthe 
week in Notre Dame's open­ing game.
PORTS 
page 19 

O
THE page 24 BSERVER Thursday, March 2, 2000 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame drops heart-breaker to Syracuse 
+ Technical foul seals Irish fate; comeback falls short 
By BRIAN KESSLER Spores Editor 
Head coach Matt Doherty got on the microphone and warned the fans not to throw anything on the court. 
Two fans decided not to listen. And when a water bottle hit the court in the clos­ing seconds or the Syracuse 73 
game. Notre Noire Dame 71 
Dame was assessed a tech­nical foul that sealed its fate. 
"It was the third time something hit the floor and I was on the mic after the first one." Dohertv said following Wednesday's 73-il loss to No. 9 Syracuse at the Joyce Center. "The officials never warned us, but I guess I warned us. It was a tough time to make that call, but we shouldn't have been in that position." 
The Irish, however. had the OrangPmen just where they wanted them. After trailing by 14 at the break and by as many as 16 in the second half. l\otre Dame was down just two points with 44 seconds left in the game and in position to win or send it to overtime. But an intentional foul on David Graves and the ensuing technical on the crowd led to the Irish's demise. 
Rvan Blackwell made 2-of-4 foul shots and Syracuse took possession of the ball with 8.8 seconds and a four-point lead. Damone Brown was a fouled and made 1-of-2 foul shots to push the lead to five. Troy Murphy then drained a desperation 
3. but time had all but run out on 
-
see M.BBALLpage 22 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 

. Irish refuse to throw in towel after 16-point deficit 
Down 16 points against the No. 9 team in the nation. a lot of teams would have thrown in the towel. 
BuL the Notre Dame men's l.Jasketball team made a different decision. It chose to light to the fin­
ish with a gritty second-hair effort that brought it within two points of Big East leader SyracusA. 
"Our guys com­peted and hung in there against a 


very good basket-Kathleen 
ball team," Notre O'Brien 
Dame head coach 
Matt Doherty said. 
"We put oursnlves Irish Insight 
in that position 
Idown 16 points[. 
and we can't do 
that." 
Syracuse's senior center Etan Thomas slam dunked to open the sec­ond half. which puL his team up 47-31. At that point, senior point guard Jimmy Dillon, playing for the final time on his home court. started ofT an Irish conrn­back with a 3-pointer. 
"That just shows the character of the team," Dillon said. "Coach jumped on us a little bit." 
Playing tenaciously throughout the second half, the Irish inched their way back into contention. Pre-season All­American Troy Murphy scored 12 sec­ond-hair points. and freshman Jere Macura scored all 12 of his points in the second period. 
"I don't think I've ever seen anyone make tougher 3s thari they made in the second half," Syracuse head coach Jim Boeheim said. "They were in a big hole. They're a young team, and they just
Freshman Jere Macura shoots over Syracuse's Tony Bland and Etan Thomas in Wednesday's 73-71 loss. Macura finished with 12 points. see IRISH INSIGHT/page 21 
Solid doubles play leads Irish to victory over Wildcats 
Special to the Observer 
The 15th-ranked Notre Dame women·s tennis team used a scrambled, but effective. dou­bles lineup to beat 12th-ranked Northwestern 6-3 on Wednesday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
After the teams split the six singles matches, the Irish raced to 8-2 wins at the No. 1 and No.3 doubles to clinch their sixth consecutive victory over the Wildcats. Notre Dame improves to 8-4 with the win and will face 33rd-rankecl Ohio State on Thursday in Toledo, Ohio. Northwestern falls to 9-2 with the loss. 
An injury to Irish junior Kimberly Guy forced the breakup of Notre Dame's 16th­and 17th-ranked doubles teams. Junior All-American Michelle Dasso. who is ranked 17th in doubles with sophomore Becky Varnum, tPamed at No. 1 dou­bles with freshman Katie Cunha. Cunha is normally Guy's partner and make up the 16th-ranked team in the country. Varnum and sophomore Nina Vaughan paired together for just the third time ever and rolled to an 8-2 win over Jennifer Lutgert and Leigh Weinraub at No. 3 dou­bles to give the Irish a 4-3 lead. Cunha and Dasso -playing together for the first time ­beat 51st-ranked Colleen Cheng and Katherine Nasser 8-2 at No. 1 doubles to clinch the win. Notre Dame's usual No. 3 dou­bles team of sophomore Lindsey Green and Kelly Zalinski won 8­5 over Lia Jackson and Marine Piriou at No. 2. 
After falling behind 3-2, Notre Dame salvaged a split of the sin­gles when Dasso outlasted Nasser 6-3, 4-6, 7-6 (9-7) at No. 1 singles in a match that last nearly three hours. Nasser led 4-2 in a seesaw third set before Dasso converted on her seventh break point of the game to trail just 3-4. She then held serve and broke serve again for 5-4 but Nasser broke back with Dasso serving for the match at 5-4. After both players won ser­vice games to send the set into a tiebreaker, Dasso built a 5-3 lead. Nasser rallied for 5-5 and saved match points at 5-6 and 6-7 before Dasso converted on her third match point to tie the match after singles. 

The Irish had taken an early lead in singles when Varnum beat Shannon Duffy 6-1, 6-2 at No. 2 singles. Cheng tied the match with a 7-6 (10-8). 6-2 win over Zalinski at No. 3 singles. Cunha -playing in just her sec­ond dual match in 2000 in replace of Guy -won the final live games of the match to beat Lutgert 6-4, 6-4 at No. 6 singles, after Lutgert had handed Cunha two of her three losses in the 1999 fall season. Piriou held off Green 6-4, 2-6, 6-3 at No. 5 sin­gles to tie the match once again at 2-2. Jackson then beat Vaughan 6-3, 7-6 (7-4} at No. 4 singles to give the Wildcats a 3­2 lead before Dasso beat Nasser at No. 1 singles. 
Baseball at Pacific Coast Doubles vs. Iowa at Pennsylvania 

N ,t)
vs. Wake Forest ~I,~,_.,..," La Jolla, Calif. Saturday, 1 p.m. 

Saturday, l p.m.

SPORTS £
ar Minneapolis, Minn. 1M
Friday-Sunday
Friday, 12:15 p.m. 
ATA 

vs. Michigan State Softball ar Georgerown ar Big East Tournament vs. Tennessee Storrs, Conn. 
Friday, 7:05 p.m. Saturday, noon 
. ~ 

Saturday, noon Sunday-Tuesday, TBA
GLANCE ~ 





