
• 
Fightin' Irish? 
Good luck on finals! 
Readers respond to Ben Peters and Kyle 

Wednesday
This is the last regular issue ofthe Observer. 
Smith's letter denouncing ROTC's 
We will next publish on Friday, May 19 
pressence on campus. 
for Commencement weekend. 
MAY3,
Viewpoint . page 13 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOLXXXIII N0.131 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU
, 


Additional London program to begin in summer of 2001 


Committee forms new football ticket system 
By L-\URA ROMPF 
Assistant :-.:t'ws Editor 
\Vhen only two 1woplP attended tlrn stadium campout for football tickPts this past fall, the Ollice of Student i\ctivitil's and tlw dass councils decided a 1ww process should bP dPsigned for distribution ol'ttw tickets. 
":\!though the distribution end of it wPnt very w1~11, tlw programming provided by the Student Activities Officn and class councils was not verv wPII attended -only two people actually spent th;~ night in the stadium. WP all hate to see traditions dit~. but the old ·campout' was not going to happen again," said Micah Murphy, former student body president. 
"It was obvious from the lack of turnout that something needed to be done, so it was a result of [administrators, student activities and students! recognizing the ne<'d for a change," said Hoss Kerr, former SUB manager. 
Past years· tradition was that students would 
see TICKETS/page 4 

PHOTO COURTESY OF MICHELLE ROESER 
Students participating in the new London Summer Program. 
beginning in 2001. coill 
utilize the same Trafalgar Square facilities as Notre 
Dame students 

participating in the semester-long program during 
the academic year. 

Three rectors bid farewell to dorms 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Assistant News Editor 
Over 11 years ago, when a Notre Dame administrator asked Father Steplwn Newton to become a rector, Newton reluctantly accepted. 
However, bv October brnak of his first year as the Sorin rector, Newton n~alized he loved his new role. 
:\lewton, along with lloward II all rector Sue llindPrlider and Zahm I!all rector Father James Lies, will depart from Notre Dame at the end of 
this year. 

Lies will leave Notre Dame to go to the University of Minnesota to enter a Ph.D. program in moral psychology. He has been Zahm 's rector for three years while he has ,vorked on a master's degree. 
Lies has also directed retreats for Campus Ministry. Previously, he was rector of the London pro­gram for three years and also 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
News Writer 
For those students torn 
between studying abroad and 
sacrificing opportunities like 
football season or tied up with 
major requirements or extracur­
ricular activities, the London 
Program has a new solution. 
Beginning in the summer of 2001, the Summer London Program will welcome approxi­mately 60 students to Notre Dame's campus on Trafalgar Square for four-and-a-half weeks of intensive study and travel. 
The concept for this program began 14 months ago when provost Nathan Hatch asked a small committee of various University representatives to evaluate the efficient use of the Suffolk Street academic complex in London. The committee dis­covered over a month of idle time between the end of spring exams and the arrival of law and engineering students in the sum­mer. 
Thomas Swartz, an economics professor who has spent approx­imately 18 months in London, was a member of that explorato­ry committee and now acts as the din~ctor of the Summer London Program. 
"It's a magnificent building, a fabulous piece of property and immensely expensive, so it stood to reason why one would want to waste the facility," Swartz said. "lAnd the summer is] a wonderful time to have a pro­gram because one could [partic­ipate inl that program and still get home in time to do any num­ber of things, like work or volun­teer service." 
Formed last November, a sub­committee consisting of Swartz; Stacy Gutting, director of the current London Program and Jim Powell, associate dean of graduate school and director of Summer Session developed a report suggesting a "highly intensive" four and one half week program that would pro­vide its participants with six aca­demic credits and a "mini" London experience. 
Utilizing the same facilities and the same British faculty that the current London Program does, the Summer London Probrram diflers only in its time­line. The session lasts from May 17 through June 17. Academic time is divided into a pair of seven-day segments separated by an intensive, five-day inter­program course for one hour of credit. The one-credit inter-pro­gram courses involve weekend travel to one of four sites ­Stratford. Scotland, Paris or London. 
"The linter-program coursel is a structured break," said Swartz. "IStudentsl will want to travel so rather than have their travel experience be as tours, we want to take that energy for travel and turn it into an acade­mic experience." 
The program is currently open to students who will be 
see LONDON/page 4 

worked in the Office of Hesidence Life. 
Also after three years working on a master's degree at Notre Dame, Hinderlider will move to New Jersey for a year of service work through Claretian Volunteers, a service group run by priests. 
Though· Hinderlider is unsure what her work will entail, the organization focuses on teaching, hospital work, immigration and parish work. 
'Tm just kind of letting the spirit be the guide," she said. 
Newton is leaving Notre Dame to go to Africa to set up an addiction resource center through the 
see RECTORS/page 6 
. 

~ . . ' . . . . . . • . . . . . . .. . . . ii 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
• 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Bombs away 

My angry pen has one more column left in it before I set out for a ,vorld less tolerant of my ranting. Before I leave, I want to impart knowl­edge and highlight perspectives gained during my four years under the watchful eye of Our Lady, most of it outside the classroom. 
First and foremost, those of you who oppose HOTC have taught me that all the piety in the world cannot prevent blatant ignorance from poisoning well-intend­ed minds, most of which belongs on the pages of an SOS pamphlet. 
You've also taught me by example that the same left­wing mackerel-snappers who oppose Ex Corde and praise academic freedom will gladly call for more Church control of HOTC instruction. 
Student Affairs, you gave me a financial les­son in your handling of my failed e-mail prank, one I was too stupid to execute in the first place. 
When I think of the date rapists I'll graduate alongside, it warms my heart to know you'll keep constant vigilance against my facetious lobbying for transgendered sea anemones, while people deserving ofjail time accept their degrees and go on their merry way. Perhaps I should have tried out for a sport. 
Of course, the student body echoed this unequal response to rape when it set out to draw and quarter the "waterboy," while the rape case generated nowhere near the same amount of indignation (I know from viewing the letters to the editor, both published and unpub­lished). The precedent you have set for future generations is clear: have your way with our women, just don't jeopardize our NCAA berth. Go Irish! 
Porn-Pon Squad, you proved that eye candy can get annoying, which I once considered impossible. Sometimes it's just better to be left to concentrate on the game. [ don't mind the cheerleaders as much, but then again, they don't look like extras for a Sir Mix-a-Lot video. 
Common Sense. I have to mention you to ensure that more students around here will have heard of you by the time they've graduat­ed. I consider you more than free birdcage lin­ing passed out in O'Shag; to me, you're a won­derful collection of Noam Chomsky and Molly Ivins columns interspersed with Pope-hating Ann Pettifer and the like. Thanks for the enter­tainment. 
Finally, I want to express my gratitude to Student Government and the various elections people. Thanks for whining when "joke candi­dates" pop up in your elections. It's entertain­ing to observe that that you're still oblivious to the fact that we're tired of the Sweet Valley I ligh popularity contests we witnessed in high school. And while I'm on the topic, thank you Student Senate for your outrage on cartoons and other pressing topics. Any time you make a valid point, it's usually obvious "racism is bad" type comments. I regret that I'll miss the "It hurts to get Mr. Happy caught in your zipper" Decree of 2001. 
I consider each of these lessons key to my growth as a person. Well, those, and the irony that nothing says WASP more than Irish Catholics at Notre Dame. But the moral of the story is that we're a group of confused, some­times spoiled, always sheltered students with an administration that often fails to set the example. And despite all of that, I still love this place. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Erin LaRuffa Jacqueline Browder Helena Rayam Graphics Brigid Sweeney Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 

Kathleen O'Brien Rachael Protzman Viewpoint Lab Tech Dustin Ferrell Liz Lang 
The Olhervt'r (liSPS 'i99 2-4000) is pubbhed Monday through Friday except Juring exam and vacation pl·riods. The Oh,erver i, a 111<:mher of the A"ociared P«·-"· All re1>roduction right, ;ire re,erved. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Screenings: "Is anxiety  . Theater: A Piece ofMy  
stressing you out?"  l/eart by South Bend Civic  
9:30 -11 a.m., 1 -3 p,m.,  Theatre, 8 p.m., The  
4:30 -6:30 p.m., Madison  Firehouse, South Bend  
Center and I lospital  . Art:  ..2000 Tom Kellogg  
.Theater: Plain and  Exhibit," Studebaker  
Fancy. Hound Barn  National Museum,  
Theatre, 2 p.m., Nappanee  South Bend  

Friday 
. 
Music: Evie Barton in Concert with Lori Sigety, 7-9 p.m.. Pcaberry Cafe. South Bend 

. 
Event: Grease performed by The Company, 8 p.m. Battell Community Center, Mishawaka 


Saturday 

. Event: "Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai," Vickers Theatre, 
5:30 and 8:15 p.m. 
. Festival: Suggs Festival, 10 a.m. -7 p.m., Suggs Museum, Vandalia 
Compiled from U-Wire reports



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
U. of Illinois sees growth in advertising major 
CHAMPAIGN. Ill. 

There are more advertising majors at the University of Illinois this year than ever before. The rapidly growing program seems to be following the trend of increased enrollment in undergraduate advertising and public relations programs nationwide, according to a study published in the 2000 edi­tion of "Where Shall I Go To Study Advertising & Public Relations?" 
The study, which included 201 colleges, showed the number of graduates in advertising and public relations was 12,439 in 1999, 3.1 percent greater than the previous year. Total enrollment was 40,719, up 2.8 percent from the previous year. 
Michigan State University and the University of Texas have the biggest programs in the country now, but the university's program is catching up. Enrollment in the advertising program increases just less than 20 percent each year, according to Linda Scott, a university advertising professor. 

"There's more interest on the part of students because of interac­tive media," said Scott. "[Interactive media] gives the field more glam­our." 
Barlow Levold, lecturer and digi­tal projects director at the universi­ty, had a different perspective on the growing interest in advertising. 
"It's fun," he said. "And kids want to do something that's fun." Scott said she thinks the growing enrollment started years ago. 
"for the past 10 years that J've been involved in academics and advertising, there's been an upward trend," she said. "And this is one of the schools where there's more growth !than at other schools)." 
This year, 265 advertising majors are enrolled in the College of Communications, according to Scott. She said limits on the number of majors might have to be imple­mented soon because there is not enough classroom space or teach­ing staff members to accommodate undergraduates in advertising. 
Kent St. bans 10 students for drugs 
KENT, Ohio 
Ten of the Kent State University students arrested last week on drug trafficking charges were perma­nently banned from campus, and three received one­year suspensions vVednesday through the Office of Judicial Affairs. The three remaining students were granted continuances at their attorneys' request and will be tried at a later date, said Corne) Morton, asso­ciate vice president of Student Support Services. The hearings were closed to the public, and university poli­cy does not allow the names of the students to be revealed. The students suspended will not be allowed to re-enroll until the summer semester of 2001. The continuances granted will allow the remaining stu­dents to delay their hearings until they feel their cases can be fairly represented, Morton said. Nancy Scott, vice president of enrollment management, said she was saddened by the news and hopes the students . 
who were disciplined can use this as a learning expe­rience. "I think the students certainly received due process, and students have to realize there are conse­quences for their actions," Scott said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWea1her., forecasl for daytime conditions and hi!!h temoeratures 
;,~  H  L  
Wednesday  ~  79  58  
Thursday  ~  77  57  
Friday I  ~  82  61  
Saturday  ~  83  60  
Sunday  .,  .  ~'  80  57  
./~  .......f~  
V  

8,Q,~8QQn~~ 
Showers T•storms Ram Fl~r;ies S~o-~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy v,a Associated Press GraphrcsNet 
SIU activist throws pie at governor 
CARBONDALE, Ill. 

A Southern Illinois University student activist attacked Governor George Ryan by slamming a pie in his face Monday, following a two-and-a-half hour forum where Ryan touted his political achievements for Southern Illinois. While surrounded by members of the media, Ryan was splattered with a chocolate vanilla cream pie, thrown by sophomore Dawn Roberts, who was bent on raising public awareness about what she called a Governor's Office drenched in corruption. Roberts, a student senator and coordina­tor for activist group Students in Excellence for Education, was arrested immediately following the incident inside the Carbondale Civic Center. "I wanted to raise awareness about all of the corruption going on in [Ryan's] office," said Hoberts while being led away by Ryan's security. "(SIU Board of Trustees chairman] A.D. Van Meter has given at least $10,000 to the Governor's Office." Ryan later said he would sign a complaint to ensure Robf~rts was prosecuted. Carbondale police would not release information per­taining to what Hobcrts would be charged with. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeathef"I' forecast for noon, Wednesday, May 3. 
C 2000 AccuWeather. Inc. COLD WARM srATIONARY 
Prnture:  ,r1 
®  ©  D  ... EJ  .  (>~~~,.q~f,;  
High  Low  Shower,  Rain  Twstorms  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. c,oudy  Cloudy  
Via A$.$0C&md Press  
Atlanta  79  63  Honolulu  84  72  St. Louis  79  55  
Anchorage  52  34  Los Angeles  75  61  San Francisco  63  52  
Boston  59  43  New Orleans  82  66  Salt Lake City  81  52  
Chicago  73  46  New York  65  50  Seattle  61  46  
Dallas  75  59  Philadelphia  70  46  Wash DC  72  50  



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------1 
Wednesday, May 3, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Renner, Nagle pledge openness 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Saint M.iry's Ni:ws E<liwr 
Though elected under a cloud of controv<'rsy and studnnt protest. the Saint Mary's Board of Governance president Crissie Honner and vice presi­d <' n t ~1ichclle Nagle hav11 plPdged to be opcn to students' questions and con­eerns. 
"We've made a commitment to research and to make changes to fit the studPnts' needs," Nagl£~ said. "I would never say I represent the student body ii' we hadn't talked with thm11." 
Amendments to the constitu­tion now state that when a tie occurs in a runoff election, as it did this year to spark the contro­versy, then the Elcctions Commitw1i will turn to the results of tlw prnvious general 



Register at lrelandByNET.com to win an Irish Holiday for Two! Visit lrelandByNET.com today to enter for a exciting trip for two to Dublin. including airfare and hotel accommodations for 4 nights at one of Dublin's finest hotels. There's a new trip to win every month!* 
Hurry and enter -the first trip will be given away in June 2000! 
lrelandByNET.com is all things Irish with news, sports, weather, history.culture, live chat, discussions & forums and tourist information. Visit us today! 
election to determine the win­ner. 
Nagle twlpNI spearlrnad tlrn new Constitutional Oversight Committee, \Vhich has dedicated itself to evaluating the constitu­tion. The committee will then make recommendations for 
a m (J n d ­

ments to the constitution at Board meetings. 
.. It is designed to research other col­1 e g es' 
Nagle c o n s t i t u ­
tions to address the need for change," Nagle said. 
Nagle is the chairwoman of the new committee. Members of the comrnitte!~ also include one from each of the class boards, one repn~sentative from each hall council, the elections commis­sioner and a member appointed by the off-campus commissioner, not m~cessarily a member of' stu­dent government. 
"All meetings will bfJ open [to the public)." Hcnner said. 

"A very important goal of ours 
is to educate the student body," 
Nagle said. "We are also trying 
to get more student feedback." 
Angie Little, former BOG vice president, originally proposed the idea of such a committee. 
The proposNl amendments were tho Board's immediate response to the controversy. However, more changes will not come until ncxt year, when the Board will be in full swing. 
"Next vear when wn start we have a l<;t to go over as far as the Constitution." Nagle said. 
Henner and Nagle would like to avoid something like the events surrounding both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame elections, but they have also learned some valuable lessons. 
"It made me passionately devoted to the needs of the stu­dent body,'' Renner said. 
Renner and Nagle have already begun to encourage stu­dent involvement and awareness in student government and activ­ities on campus. 
"We want to put out a publica­tion at the beginning of the year with all the names and faces of the commissioners, and have a bulletin board for student con­cerns,'' Nagle said. "A lot of peo­ple don't realize they have a rep­resentative on th(~ board." 
They are also educating the new members of the Board to be more receptive to student con­cerns and the workings of stu­dent government. 
"This is the first time that every student government leader has been handed a constitution," Nagle said. "They should be edu­cated on what the student con­stitution says." 
The Board is also working on a Website and a newsletter to keep students informed. 
"Already we've accomplished so much,'' Henner said. 
to Ireland * 
NEWS IN BRIEF 
ND law student Erhard wins local GOP primary 
James Erhard, a third-year law student at Notre Dame, secured the G0P's top nomination for the sixth district in the Indiana House nf Representatives. Erhard gathered supporters at Rocco's Pizza in South Bend to celebrate his nomination. "Thn support we have generated in the community indicates that the people of the sixth district arn tired of Pat Bauer's type of leader­ship." In his comment.._, to supporters. Erhard promised to sup­port real tax cuts and comprehensive change in Indiana's educa­tion policy. "Unlike my opponent, I will fight for cutting our prop­erty taxes, and I will put our parents, teachers and students first,'' he said. Erhard said he plans to campaign hard throughout the summer and fall. Erhard's campaign message has fr>cused on taxes and education. A supporter of' comprehensive tax reform, Erhard favors property tax reduction, a permanent ten percent homestead credit and an end to inventory tax. Erhard also sup­ports charter schools, school choice and vouchers. Erhard will receive his law degree later this month. 
Date announced for Hesburgh's Congressional Gold Medal ceremonies 
University president emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh will receive Congress' highest honor for contributions to the life of the nation July 13 in Washington, D.C. The Congressional Gold Medal will be given to Hesburgh in afternoon ceremonies in the Capitol rotunda. Hesburgh, 82, stepped down in 1987 after 35 years as president of Notre Dame. His extensive record of public service included 15 Presidential appointments, the most visible of which was to the original U.S. Commission on Civil Rights in 1957. He has made trips to the Middle East as a member of a group set up in the Wye Plantation Treaty to maintain p(~aceful relations between Israr,I and the Palestinians. and he was sent on a UN fact-finding mission on refugees in the wake of the conflict in Kosovo. Legislation authorizing the medal was introduced by Notre Dame alumnus and Indiana Third District Congressman Tim Roemer. University president Father Edward Malloy, who succeeded Hesburgh, will be among the speakers at the ceremo­ny. Glee Club director Dan Stowe and three Glee Club graduating seniors -Adam Charnley of Lapeer, Mich., Matthew McDonnell of Lacrosse, Wis., and Patrick Quigley of New Orleans -will per­form as a quartet as part of the program. 
Wild named valedictorian of Class of 2000 
Elizabeth Wild, a history and computer applications double major from Washington, Pa., has been named valedictorian of Notre Dame's 2000 graduating class. \,Vild achieved a 3.975 grade point average in Notre Dame's Honors Program and for her senior thesis composed a 200-page novel -one of four pro­jects formally presented at the final colloquium. Wild is submit­ting her novel for publication. Aft.er graduation, Wild will work in Pittsburgh for McKinscy & Co., a managerial consulting group. She was a reporter for the University's student newspaper, The Observer, for two years and for the student magazine, the Scholastic, her sophomore year. She tutored in the University's First Year of Studies during her sophomore year, and she served as peer advisor for the University's First Year of Studies to younger members of the Notre Dame Honors Program. As a junior, she participated in the University's Washington, D.C., studies program. She also served as a student volunteer at the University's Early Childhood Development Center. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
campout for a front line position with hopes of receiving tickets close to the front and near the 50-yard line. However, cam­pouts became less feasible for several reasons. 
According to Murphy, one of these reasons was safety. Juniper Street's morning traflic provided a hazardous situation where stud(mts could possibly be hit by a car. he said. 
Also, after the past few years' campouts students have left a mess, Murphy said. A final rea­son, according to Murphy, was that students were missing or falling asleep in classes the day folknving the campout. 
"Although the decision to end the campout was made by the administration. there was also a quiet contingent of students who sought an alternative to sleeping outside and lighting for positions the next morning," Murphy said. 
Student Activities began the planning process for a new event immediately following Murphy's and former studtrnt body vice president Michael Palumbo's oath of office last April. 
"Planning for the distribution started when it was made apparent to Michael and I that the ticket campout was not going to happen and that 1;ve would need to help to formulate a new means of distributing tickets," Murphy said. 
A committee was formed with members from the ticket office, Student Affairs, SUB, class coun­cil presidents, Student Activities and Notre Dame Security. 
This group was further divided into two subcommittees ­Logistics and Event Planning. 
The group met weekly until last August and then met again alter last year's event failed. 
"After this August's distribu­tion. and seeing how it did not get as well as hoped, we recon­vened in September to just kind of debrief on what had hap­pened," Murphy said. 
The committee determined that since the four-night stadium concourse forum was expensive and poorly attended, a shart one-night event in and around Stepan Center would be more plausible. 
"There is going to be one big blow-out bash now, instead of four mini-events where there was one for each class. This way. we can build up support for the football team -as well as all 
LOW 
student 
Airfares 
Europe •Africa Asia • South America 
More Than 100 Departure Cities! 
Eurailpasses Bus Passes Study Abroad 
IT"S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT. 
StudentUniverse.com 
800-272-9676 


sports -with a pep rally-type event. give out a bunch of free prizes and select the winning ticket number. This is better than trying to coordinate sepa­rate event"i for each class," Kerr said. 
''Based on last year's experi­ence, we decided to shorten the program dmvn from a full night to a couple hours. The group has decided to combine a pep rally with a carnival and picnic," Murphy said. 
There will be several prizes and free food in addition to var­ious activity booths for students as they wait for tickets to be distributed. Also, there \Vill be mini-pep rally with a surprise guest, the marching band, cheerleaders and some mem­bers of the football team. 
"Looking at years past. pep­rallies used to be always held in Stepan -and they were crazy. This could be the best pep rally of the year. Imagine the band at full sound in that little space­age hut with 8,000 screaming students," Kerr said. 
\Vith a student ID and ticket application, students will receive numbers within their own classes. Like last year, each student will then be able to use six IDs and applications so they will have six tickets seated together. 
"One number will be drawn. and that will be the starting point for each class. It is com­pletely random. After the lot­tery number is drawn, the tickets will be bought in a sim­ilar fashion to last year," Kerr 
said. Murphy added that only one number will be chosen. 
"For example, if 418 is drawn, number 418 of the senior class goes first, and then tho seniors line up accordingly. The juniors will also have a separate line starting with number 418, and so will the sophomores and freshmen. There \\'ill also be a color coded chart of the stadi­um showing students \\'hat seats have been filled as we go along," Murphy said. 
"We're trying to come up with a formula to address the suggestions that people gave, and we hope this more com­pact event will bring people out for a chance to mingle with friends when they just get back to campus, win some great prizes, get a free dinner and get fired up for the foot­ball season," Murphy said. 
Kerr said if students support the new event. it will definitely be better than last year and hopefully even better than the traditional campout. 
"This process will be incred­ible if it all works out, but the support of the students is needed. Yes, it does involve taking a risk on the behalf of the students, because some people are going to regard this as stupid, and not a campout. However, we feel that this will pass ... if everyone comes with an open mind and partic­ipates. The so-called tradition of 'camping out' will soon be forgotten." Kerr said. 

London 
continued from page 1 
juniors in the fall of 2000 from all majors. There is an early application deadline of May 15. 30 early applicants will be admitted this spring. Another 30 will be admitted next fall afh~r the October 23 regular application deadline. The program's total cost is $5,500, including room, board, tuition, food and trans­portation costs. 
"I would put the highest pri­ority on [those] who could not participate in a regular study abroad program. 'Ne also sent a letter inviting students admitted to the current Spring 2001 London Program to stay," Swartz said. 

Those denied from the London Program l"or the fall of 2000 or spring of 2001 were given the opportunity to reactivat<' their applications for consideration in the new program, he said. 
"I want to be here all four years during the school year to take advantage of everything on campus here," said Carolyn Billick, a current freshman exploring her future possibili­ties at th£~ program's informa­tion session Tuesday. 

' 

1.) Flowers 2.) Honey 
f 

3.) Copies Done Right! 
When you want your pictures sharp and done right the first time, we understand. The Copy Shop in the LaFortune Student Center will make certain that each copy you need is perfect, free from blur or loss of resolution. In fact, we want to make your copies picture perfect, clean, and visible. If you're still out of focus on copies, we will put things in perspective for you, and make the kind of photocopies you want. Stop in soon and check us out! 
(C)py SHOP 
Lafortune Student Center 
University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPY 
High Volume Copying 
I Color Copying, Scanning, & Printing Binding / Laminating / Fax Service Newsletters/ Reports/ Manuals Complete Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! 
Quality Copies, Quickly!™
Something
to Buz 
--,,~ Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm 
About!:,, 
Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm 
Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
Copyright 2000 • All Rights Reserved • 4/00 
--~ 


Wednesday, May 3, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSEHVEH WIHE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Arkansas woman executed for murder of children 
VAHNEH 

;\ former nurse who asked for the death p,,,rnlty for drugg.ing and suffocating her two childrnn was exPcuwd by injection Tuesday in Arkansas· first Pxecution of a woman in more than 150 years. Christina Marie Higgs, 
28. was the firth vvoman ex1~cuted in the Unitc!d States sinn\ the Supreme Court lifted a ban on capital punishment in 1976. She had withdrawn all appeals and chose not to seek clenwnry from Gov. Mike Huckabee. Higgs told authoritins that she intcndnd to use potassium chloride -the samP heart-stop­ping drug used in executions -to kill her rhildrPn. 5-yea.r-old Justin and 2-ycar-old Shelby Alt·xis. in 1997. Initially. Biggs' moth­nr and lawyer said sh<\ suffered post-traumat­ic stress after working as a nurse in thP aftc~r­math of the Oklahoma City bombing. The matter never canw up at her trial. 
Officials detain five in McDonald's bon1bing 
PAHIS 

FivP susp!'cted Breton separatists were dPtai1H~d for questioning by French polic:<~ Tuesday in connection with last month's fatal bombing of a McDonald ·s restaurant in Brittany, police officials said. Officials said the f'ivt~ includ<~d GaPI Hoblin. spokesman for Emgann. a 200-member separatist group which is believed to be the political arm of the Brnton HPvolutionary Army. Two men and two women. -whose identities were not n~vcaled, wcrn also in police custody. The April 19 blast tore through the drive-through windows of' a McDonald's fast-food restaurant located near Dinan. a town or 22,000 pt-1ople 250 miles west of Paris. A 27-year-old employee. Laurence Turbec. was killed. 
Metal ball falls from space, lands on farm 
JOHANNESHUHG, South Africa 

For a while. it seemed as if some strange met1wrological phenomenon was hitting South Africa. /\ metal ball fell from the sky Thursday onto a farm near 'Worcester. 45 miles east of Cap,! Town. leaving an 8-inch dent in the ground. On Friday. another ball a yard wide plummeted from the sky onto a farm in Ourbanville. just outside Cape Town. "We heard the sound of crackling thunder. yet then~ wern no clouds." said Philip Schew, a tenant farmer near Worcester. NASA scien­tists said the balls were garbage from a Delta rocket launched in 1996. The balls had been expected to land somewhere in southern Africa. Nick Johnson, who is in charge of' orbital debris for NASA. said space garbage re-enters the Earth's atmosphere almost every day, landing mostly in the ocean. 

10791.10 
-21.96 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CO!!PANY TICKER % CHANGE i C!i!.t,GE PRICJ! 
ATltT  CORP  T  -U.H  -7.0600  H.91  
MICROSOFT  CORP  MSFT  -4.U  -3.S575  69.88  
CISCO  SYSTEMS  csco  •LBl  -3.4375  68.00  
QUALCOMM  me  QCOM  +3.59  +3. 9400  113. 6 9  
MCI  WORLOCOM:  IN  WCOM  -6.53  -•,!. 9975  '2.94  
INTEL CORP  lNTC  -4.67  -5,9350  121.19  
BROAOVISION  INC  BVSN  +9.00  •3.8775  '6,9'  
NASDAQ  100 SHAR  QQQ  -5.76  -5.5050  90.12  
DELL  COMPUTER  DELL  -2.45  -1. 2525  0,81  
ATaT  WIRELESS  AWE  -8.51  -3.0000  3:l.25  

Associated Press 

TALIPAO 
Hebels said two foreign hostages died in a clash early \Vednesday between military troops and Muslim guerrillas holding 21 people in the southern Philippines. 
But mi Ii tary offi c i a Is said tlwy had no kno\-vl­edge of' any f'atalities among the hostages kid­napped from a Malasian resort. 
fv1canwhilc. the same rebel group holding another group of 27 Filipino hostages in neigh­boring Basilan province 

Associated Press 

VIEQUES, Puerto Rico 
With a showdown loom­ing over the U.S. Navy's prime Atlantic training ground, protesters who have blocked bombing for over a year said Tuesday that federal agents would have to arrest them to clear the range but promised they wouldn't fight back. 
Supporters from the 
U.S. mainland, including Heps. Luis V. Gutierrez, D-rll.. and Nydia Velazquez,D-N.Y., promised Tuesday to join 
the protesters, and national and international church councils urged President Clinton to call off any planned raid. 
Scores of Puerto Hicans kept a vigil at the gate to the restricted Navy com­pound on Vieques Island, jeering at soldiers in pass­ing Humvees. With three 
U.S. warships offshore, the occupiers readied for what they called "the invasion" with goggles, petroleum jelly and vine­gar-soaked rags to protect against tear gas. 
"They are trying to cre­ate panic among the peo­ple with this deployment," 

protester Robert Rabin told the crowd, referring to the arrival of three U.S. warships -reportedly carrying 1,000 Marines ­a day before. "The people have determined that not one more bomb will be dropped here." 
The range has been occupied by protesters since a civilian security guard was killed by stray bombs in April 1999, releasing pent-up frustra­tions throughout Puerto Rico, a U.S. territory of four million people. 
The Pentagon insists that its range on the east­ern third of Vieques is 
vital to national security because it provides live­fi re combat training before every deployment of Atlantic Fleet carrier battle groups abroad. The range provides a target for practicing precision bombing as well as amphibious assaults. 
About 50 protesters at several camps inside the range are blocking a Jan. 31 directive by President Clinton allowing the Navy to resume limited training until Vieques' 9,400 resi­dents decide in a referen­dum -probably next year -whether the Navy should leave. 
PHILIPPINES 

Rebel clash claims lives of 2 hostages 
offered Wednesday to release all their captives if the military halts its pur­suit. 
The military admitted Tuesday it was unable to find the 27 after overrun­ning the main Abu Sayyaf stronghold. They were among about 50 seized by the rebels from two schools on March 20 f'or use as human shields. The rebels later released some of the hostages. 
Ten soldiers were killed and 56 injured in the assault on the camp. offi­cials said. 
Soldiers see~ing _the releasP of the 21 hostages 

and  Abu  Sayyaf rebels  
clashed  several  times  
Tuesday  and  early  

Wednesday after about 100 heavily armed guer­rillas attempted to escape through an encirclement by the military. At least one soldier was killed and six injured, officials said. 
Commander Hobot. an Abu Sayyaf leader. claimed in a telephone intervie,v with a local ABS-CBN radio network that one hostage had been shot in the encounter and another died or a heart attack. 
lie apologized to their families and said it was not the rebels' doing. 
On Tuesday, the rebels threatened to behead two foreign hostages if the military does not back away from the rebels' hide-out. but a govern­ment spokesman said the encirclement of the area would continue. 
The 21 hostages Wf're kidnapped April 23 from a Malaysian diving resort and brought to a bamboo hut in Talipao on Jolo, about one hour away by boat. 
The hostages have also pleaded to the govern­ment to halt military oper­ations in the an~a. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, May 3, 2000 

God questions," she said. "Listening to the students ask
Rectors 

added that she has enjoyed becoming better acquainted with Hinderlider while serving on hall staff this year. 
"She definitely knows every­one in the hall," Kelly said, remembering being amazed that llinderlider remembered the names of all Howard resi­dents shortly after arriving as rector during Kelly's sopho­more year. 
This year, Hinderlider was helpful in organizing a Bible study in the hall this year, according to Kelly. 
"Sue is a quiet leader. some­one who works behind the scenes." said Father William \Vack, co-director of freshman retreats. "She really never drew attention to herself." 
For example, Hinderlider made improvements to Howard's chapel without wanting recognition for her efforts, Wack said. Hinderlider also spent time tending to the flowers outside the dorm. 
Lies has also helped to beau­tify the outside of Zahm, Wack said. Lies did much of the out­side gardening himself and also oversaw students doing yard work. 
"Jim cares about Zahm more than most people know. He's really put everything into being rector," said Wack. who also lives in the dorm. He also said that Lies has advocated for Zahm in ways even the hall's residents do not know. 
"Father Jim is interested in the well-being of people in the hall," Zahm assistant rector Mark Ross said, adding that Lies is concerned with the "spiritual development" of res­idents. 
Ross said he believes he has learned from Lies' skills as a counselor and motivator. 
Like Hinderlider and Lies, Newton has also had an impact on his dorm and the students who live there. 
"I think Father Steve has gotten me to look at things more compassionately ... Steve is setting a great example 'by going to Africa," said 
them. serving as rectors has not always been easy_. 
"It's kind of the sense of liv­ing in a fishbowl," Hinderlider said, explaining that it is diffi­cult to not be able to go homP at night away from her job. 
Hinderlider will not miss 
having to stay up late or get­ting phone calls in tlrn 
continued from page I 
Wilson Foundation. 
As director of an addiction treatment center in South Bend for the past eight years, he was originally asked to travel to Africa to assess the needs of the population in terms of addiction treatment. 
"Their need is so great and their resources are zero," he said, adding that he decided to return after realizing it would have been selfish for him to remain at Notre Dame simply because he had a comfortable life here. 
All three rectors said they will miss Notre Dame and their respective dorms. 
"I feel a bit like a senior as I leave and it is clearly the 

questions makes me kind of ask my own questions." 
She has enjoyed watching the personal growth of the stu­dents in her hall and fondly looks back on Commencement days, she said. 
''You look out at all the faces and you see students you lived with ... and you know they're taking the next step in life," Hinderlider said. She added that as a rector she knows she has been a part of their expe­rience at Notre Dame. 
Similarly. Newton said that he has enjoyed the relation­ships he has built with Sorin students. 
He has remained in contact with past students and has even presided over their wed­ding ceremonies and baptized 
their chil­
dren. 

K e v i n middle of th11
..I think Father Steve 
Grugan, a night about
has gotten me to
Sorin RA. people com­"He's just a look at things more ing home wonderful intoxicated,
compassionately. " 
example to she said. the guys in Newton the dorm." Kevin Grugan admitted 
By leaving Sorin Hall RA that he will 
his own com­fort zone, Newton demonstrates "what a man of Christ is like," Grugan said. 
"He is very caring, extremely loyal. and very loving. He real­ly values relationships and a lot of guys in the dorm really respect that," Sorin assistant rector Scan Seymore said. "He's always in a good mood. He's never too busy to talk to anyone ... His door is always open." 
For example, his door was always open after Sunday mass. when residents have traditionally gathered in Newton's room to watch the Simpsons, Grugan said. Newton's room has also been a place to relax and enjoy a snack during final exam week. 
Newton will be particularly missed during interhall foot­ball season. 
"He's the biggest fan," said Seymore. 
Despite the positive memo­ries Lies, Hinderlider and Newton are taking away with 
not miss 
cleaning up after students who get sick due to consuming too much alcohol. 
"I will not miss we(~kends," said Newton. 
Lies noted that not everyone understands the difficult choices rectors have to make. 
However, according to Hinderlider, it is the good memories she will carry away with her. 
"I think [Hindcrlider has! definitely been an asset to tlw dorm and she'll be missed," Kelly said. 
When returning to campus in the fall, Grugan said he always knew that Newton would be present to help with the transition back to school. Seyprnre added that it is diffi­cult for him to imagine Sorin without New.ton. 
"There's definitely going to be a hole here [at Zahm]," said Wack, adding that the new rector will have difficulty liv­ing up to Lies' energetic lega­cy. 

relationships 1 will miss the most,"  "/feel a bit like a senior as I leave and it is  "They're my friends," he said.  
Lies said. He added that it will be diffi­ clearly the relationships I will miss the most ...  One of Newton's most memo­ 
cult for him  r  a  b  l  e  
to leave both  Jim Lies  moments  
students and  Zahm Hall rector  from his time  
colleagues.  as rector will  
Getting to  be  his  
know  the  farewell party  

students in the hall has been last Friday. he said. People one of Hindcrlidcr's favorite from each class that lived in parts of being a rector. Sorin during his time as rector 
''I'll miss working with the attended the event. students. I think there's such a The three departing rectors life the students bring to me -are not the only ones who the energy. the vitality," have appreciated the relation­Hinderlider said. "It's been ships they have formed. interesting. " A Imost all the ti m e . 
"I find that age group to be [Hinderlider's] door is open. exciting to work with because even when she's not on duty," you're just embarking on life's said Colleen Kelly. a resident journey ... You start asking assistant in Howard. Kelly 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE SENIOR WEEK EVENTS MAY 12-18, 2000 
Friday, May 12'h 
*C09kout on the Island (in front of Haggar) 
4:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 
*$I for on-campus students *$2 for off-campus stµdents fl Music will be provided by aDJfl 
Saturday, May 13th 
*Day at Warren Dunes (Bridgman,MI) **Directions will be provided
*South Bend Symphony-Morris Civic Center 8 p.m. 
Sunday, May 14th *Day at Cedar Point 10 a.m.-10 p.m. 
Monday, May 15th *Field Day Games (Library Green) 1:00 p.m.
*Ice Cream Social (Library Green) 2:00 p.m. *Chili's Fajita 'Rita Night
*Beacon Bowl College Night *Heartland 
Tuesday, May 16th 

*Senior Video (Carroll Auditorium) 11 :00 a.m. *Time Capsule Burial -Following showing of Senior Video *Run/Walk 3:00 p.m. 
**Money goes to Kristi Morris Fund 
*TGIF Day (Use ofcomplimentary coupons) 

Wednesday, May 171h 
*Cubs Game **Buses LEAVE LeMans Circle at 10:30 a.m. and return at 7:30 p.m.
*Discounted Games at Chippewa Bowl w/ SMC ID 11 a.m.-11 p.m *Complimentary tickets to the Funny Bone Comedy Club 
Thursday, May 18th 
*
Alumnae Mass 9:45 a.m. 

*
Alumnae Brunch (following mass) Presentation ofSenior Awards


*Discounted Games at Putt Putt Golf 
1 p.m.-10 p.m. 

$2.25/game or $3 for 2games w/ SMC ID *TGIF's Day (Use ofcomplimentary coupons) *Complimentary tickets to the Funny Bone Comedy Club *Coach's 
Congratulations, SMC Class of 2000! Go Belles! 

Compllmenm of 
. -•

Sodexho Marriott 
SERVICES 
Wednesday, May 3, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Members endorse student play, party conventions trips 
Convocation Mary's, they will hold an infor­
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
begins at 2 mation session to relate their 
Sainr Mary's News Editor 
p.m. experience. Nagle and In other news, the Hesidence
The Board of Governance 
her fellow Hall Association has madevoted Tuesday to support 
political sci­more progress in filling itssophomore Hene Tem 's play 
ence major. positions.
"A Day in the Life," which will 
Jloather "We are trying to wrap up
be pm·forml\d next week in 
O'Donnell, filling our board," said HHA
Carroll Auditorium. 
came to the president Mindy Rennaker.
The Board madP the deci­
Board to Akmaral Omarova, Student
sion based on T!'rn's "(\Xtraor­
req u i~st an Diversity Board president and
dinary student achievenwnt." 
nnlargml co­founder, also reported that the
According to MichellP Nagle, 
sponsorship. new board is well on its way to
Student Acadt>rnic Council 
O'Donnell making an impact on the cam­
coordinator and BOG vice 
and Nagle pus.
prnsident, Tern's play is about 
will be "It's going well." Omarova
student life and has been 
attending the said. "We sat down and looked
Pndorsed by Saint Mary's pro­
Hepublican at our goals for next year."
fessors. 
a n d Student Activities Board is
At the m1~eting. Nagle also 
Democratic sponsoring an event in Le
expressed thP desire for a 1ww 
!\!atio11al Mans Lobby May 10, called
tradition at the College. 
Conventions, "Stress Busters." Free five-to
"It would bn grnat if stud1~nts 
respectively, 10-minute massages will be
could line the walk f'rom 
in the early administered to the students.
Madelfwa to Le Mans to honor 
fall. BOG President Crissie
seniors las they walk from] 
"We have Renner also announced the
their hooding Ito tho llonors 
to cover al I developments of a memorial
Convocation ceremony]," Most colleges give 4 to 6 cred­well. 
food and living expenses, pur­seat in ()'Laughlin Auditorium
Nagle said. its for thes·e two weeks." "It's an incredible opportuni­
chases and plane tickets," for Kristie Morris, a Saint
Students can congn~gate at Saint Mary's has also agreed ty for Saint Mary's to be rec­
Nagle said. "It's an incredibly Mary's senior who died in a
the Le Mans bus stop at 1:30 ognized like this," Nagle said.
to sponsor the two students as
academic event. It's not fun. car accident during spring
p.m. Sunday. The Honors When the two return tu Saint 
break. 

"Kristie Morris' seat in O'Laughlin will be put then~ this summer," Renner said. 
The Board also discussed plans for Pride Week next
Author s 
year. "It's been fabulous so far,"
Meet author 
Renner said. "Next year it's going to be incredible." 
Julie Walters 

Saturday 
You know 
May 6th 
that noise ll·OO am yourheart 11Ulkes
in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore when you 
South Bend Author Julie Walters 
workout? 
invites children to bring their Moms 
for an early Mother's Day Storytime_ 
Ir's CALLED
Meet author 
APPLAUSE. 
Steven Varni 
Think of each beat as 
Sunday your heart's way of cheer­ing you on for staying physically active. Want a
May 7th 
standing ovation? Try keeping your diet low in cholesterol and saturated
2:30 pm 
fat too. For more ways to lower your risk of heart in the Hammes Notre attack and stroke, visit www.americanheart.org or
Dame Bookstore 
ca.111-800-AHA-USA1. 
""-­

American Heart aa 
Association.~ 
Aghtlng Heart Disease and Stroke 
This space provided as apublic service. C 1999, American Heart AssOciation 





page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
Archaeology program exposes students to field techniques 
to the class of 2000 
he road rise to meetyou ile wind always be atyour back 
:Jl'/J...,Shine warmly upon yourface i,_fWflj" · ·· softly on yourfields, ,....Af...~ auain friends 
.. 6' , , 
best wishes in the hollow 
for success in the future 
~ 
the student union 

' _________...,. ___ , . .. 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Assistant News Editor 
When senior Heather Schomann added an anthropolo­gy minor to her course load last year, she was immediately drawn · to professor Mark Schurr's summer archaeology field school. 
"I had always been interested in archaeology. and the program gave a good, solid basis in it." Schomann said. 
Schumann was one of over a do:ten Notre Dame students to experience archaeology in the annual six-week summer dig. Sponsored by the Summer Session, all students who apply for tlrn program are accepted, and openings are still available for this upcoming summer. 
Offering six credit hours at economical summer rates, the program stresses the basics of field archaeology and the archaeology of North America. 
Schurr's program focuses on Native American history and cul­ture. 
"This is great for anybody interested in getting hands-on experiencP in archaeology," Schurr said. "\V,~ start from ground zero and go from thcni, so no one IHH:ds any experi­ence." 
This is exactly what attracted sophomore Marni Cochrane to the upcoming summer program. 
"The great thing about the ND field school is that people like me, who have no prior experi­enr.P working in a field school, can take the opportunity to learn how to do archaeology," Cochrane said. 
Five days a week, 8 -14 stu­den ts will work at two sites including a 2,000-year-old pre­historic village occupied by the ancient Mound Builders and a Using historical records, such Potawatomi Native American vil­as a surveyor's map from the lage. AU learning is experiential, 1830s and letters of Badin said Schurr, with no homework (whose namesake is a women's 

or  examina­ dorm on cam­ 
tions.  pus today), the  
"This year we will work at a prehistoric  ..A lot ofNative Americans feel that  group will use test excavation techniques to  
site along the shores of a drained lake for the first half," Schurr  archaeologists are just grave robbers, but hopefully we can use both groups to learn  search for the exact location of the chapel. 'Tm hoping to verify that  
said. "The last half we will spend at the  more about this area's history. ,,  the chapel was there," Schurr said.  
P o k  a  g o n  In  addition,  
Village site where a Potawatomi  Mark Schurr professor  the field school will use unique testing meth- 
tribe lived dur­ ods.  

ing the 1830s. The tribe invited "We are the only undergradu­Father Badin to the village to ate program in the United States minister to them, and there he to teach remote sensing tech­built a Roman Catholic chapel -niques," Schurr said. we are going to try to find the "I expect to learn the neces­chapel's remains." sary excavation techniques that 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
i 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
I I 
Cadet Chiapetta 

Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force 
ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership 
qualities. Whether you're about to start college or 
have already begun, it's time to make your 
decision, now. 

Contact Captain Klubeck -631-4676, or Klubeck.1 @nd.edu 
• 
will help me in my future field schools," she said. 
The program will also include the guidance of John Warren, one of the 2,500 Pokagon Potawatomi in this area. Ile will teach participants about Native American culture and civiliza­tion. Schurr said he hopes Warren and the students will bridge the gap between Native Americans and archaeologists. 
"A lot of Native Americans foci that archaeologists are just grave robbers, but hopefully we can use both groups to learn more about this area's history," he said. "The Potawatomi are undergoing a 'renaissance' to rediscover their past, and it is exciting to be a part of that." 
Schomann said that last year's interaction with the tribe was a highlight of the summer. 


Wednesday, May 3, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Pangborn Hall wins HPC's dorm of the year contest 
By ELLEN FITZGERALD 
News Writer 
"Skid row," "the ghetto of south quad," "aesthetically challenged," "the smelly dorm." Those are monikers often given to Pangborn Hall, but now "1999-2000 Hall of the Year" can be added to this list. This was the first time Pangborn has received this honor since its first year as a female residence in 1992­1993. 
J\t the annual Leadership BanqLI!~t on April 11, the Hall Presidents Council named Pangborn hall of the year. 
Sorin received best male hall, programming for both the hall Cavanaugh best female hall and the greater campus com­and Knott most improved hall. munity, participation in events 
Pangborn's  and the  cre­ 
winning application, made by  "To get dorm ofthe year, we had to involve the  ativity of the applicatoin. The road to  
dorm presi­dents Casey  whole dorm.,,  hall year  of the began  
McCluskey  last  year  
and  Jen  Casey McCluskey  w  h  e  n  
Kosteva, was  Pangborn co-president  McCluskey  

an elaborate booklet describing the more than 80 programs Pangborn was a part of this year. Criteria for the award include 
Commenc 

Commencement 
Commencement Mass 
ROTC Commissioning 
Law School Ceremony 
MBNEMBA Diploma 
Ceremony Architecture Graduation 
Order Directly at: 
http,//www.nd.edu/-1olution Or Contact: 
Office of lntormation Technolog"ies 
University of Notre Dame 
Solutiom CenterAideotape• 
631.9335 

"1.deotapes are available! 
and Kosteva were elected. Their main goal, they 

said, was to boost spirit and identity in Pangborn and become hall of the year. When the pair was elected they met with the hall staff and chal­lenged them to win the title. They then met with the rest of the hall. 
"To get dorm of the year we had to involve the whole dorm," McCluskey said. 
They made a plan for each of' the five sections to host three programs a semester, one spiritual, one service and one educational. This would have given Pangborn 30 at the close of the year. but instead they ended with more than 
80. Because of all this pro­gramming, Pangborn was con­stantly recognized in the monthly awards given out by HPC 
"That really impressed them I HPCJ that we did so many programs in so many different areas," McCluskey said. 
Also, IIPC was impressed by the way Pangborn kept up old traditions of the Spring Fling and Phox Phire while also beginning new ones, the Pangborn Putt-Putt and Black Ilistory Month. 
According to McCluskey, Pangborn had to work harder than another dorm to get noticed bucause of thHir lack of reputation. 
"They don't even make fun of us at the Keenan Review," she said. 
Pangborn rector Heather Rakoczy said that the small women's dorm at the end of 
South  Quad  deserved  the  
award.  
"Why did HPC give  us  the  

award, hall of the year? Because of the application and the programing we did. Why are we hall of' the year? Because of the 200 women who live here," said Rakoczy. 
The male hall of the year award, according to Sorin rec­tor Father Stephen Newton, can be attributed to the amount and diversity of the programming planned by this past year's presidents, 
close and considered a fami­ly." said Jeanette Mc Keen, president of Cavanaugh, female dorm of the year. The dorm hosted a wide range of events, both for its residents and the wider community, all year long. 
Knott Hall received this year's most improved hal1 award. This award is given to the hall which has most great­ly improved its programming through the course of' the year. 
Knott rector Brother Jerome Meyer. attributes this award to the improvement of pro­gramming by hall presidents Andrew Olejnik, Chris Muro and Joeseph Mueller. 
During the course of this year, Knott boosted its pro-
grams in 
many ways. 

L a r r y "Its a real honor to They expand­
Burchett ed their multi­
live in a dorm where
and John cultural 
Taggart. everyone is so close and events, devot­Some of considered a family. ,. ing a week to 
Sorin's best the topic and programs bringing in 
Jeanette McKeen 

this year speakers, a included the Cavanaugh co-president mariachi band 
annual tal­ent show and the fall break service pro­ject, Newton said. This fall break, 40 Sorin men traveled to Philadelphia and Camden, 
N.J.. to renovate houses for the needy. Sorin also reached the inter­hall football championship. The dorm has a very strong spiritual community, too. "Our liturgies are always overflowing," Newton said. 
Other events that Sorin host­ed this year were monthly dorm dinners, football game barbecues, two banquets, a final exams coffee shop locat­Hd in Newton's room and some of the most highly attended dances. 
"It's a real honor to live in a dorm where everyone is so 
and a hall 

Mexican din­ner. Another important change was making the Justin Brumbaugh Memorial Three­on-Three Basketball Tournament open to the entire Notre Dame communitv. Knott has also been interhail sports champion for many sports, worked with the Boys and Girl's Club of America and has sponsored many speakers. 
Programming is one of the most important things that HPC looks at when determin­ing the hall of the year recipi­ent, and each of the 27 resi­dence halls was encouraged to apply for the various awards. To win, the dorm must apply, and in their application pre­sent all of the work the hall has done throughout the year. 
Why did Sister Adrienne join the Adrians? 

Exp.Io.ringReligious Life 
R E T R E A T 
June 9-11, 2000 Adrian, Michigan 
Join us for .. 
• 
Listening and sharing 

• 
Time for private reflection 

• 
Conversations with Adrian Dominican Sisters 

• 
Fellowship with others who are exploring religious life. 



Ask her! 


Adrian Dominican Sisters 
www.op.org/adrian 
For information contact: 
S. Joann Plumpe, OP voc@admc-op.org 
; _____________________________________.
(517) 266-3533 

r-------------~---------, 
I
1-------
.......-----­
1 I 
5UPE11 

I 
I I I I 
I 
I I ..._'Ir-~----._. I


L 



272-9000 
f 

NOTRE DAME DISCOUNT: 
$20 OFF ON ANY SPA! 
Available to all students and Parents with this coupon. Valid Sunday -Thursday -nor valid for Special 
fxents 1-80 .11 Exit 77 • 5282'\ US .'\.',N • So111h Bend. IN• 272­9000 !-80 .11 Exit 77 • 'i2825 US .BN • Somh Bend. IN•
J 

...~:-::-:--=~:-..-:-:':=:-...........................................,....................................._.,....,, ............... .,..................... .......... ,,.,._._ ...................,.......,..................,.~""'6-~...........................~.,.~.......---l
--·~·····················--~-.----~--~······~············----·--------·----·----~·-~--~··~·--••~•--·--·--········--···· 

page 10 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, May 3, 2000 

Halter: Social Security aids Americans 
. But demographic factors threaten program's solvency 
By KEVIN SCHUMM News Writer 
Concern for the longevity of Social Security occupies much of current Congressional debate. 
''At the heart [of this debate] are demo­graphic issues." said William Halter, the deputy com­missioner of Social Security. 
Since the 

Halter

advent of Social Security in 1935, two primary characteristics of the population have changed. At that time the number of workers per benefi­ciary was very high because few people qualified for the program. However, according to Social Security Administration statis­tics, the number of workers per beneficiary has decreased from five workers per one beneficiary in 1960 to 3.4 workers per bene­ficiary today. 
With projections for 2037 sug­gesting only two workers per beneficiary, it is estimated that the Social Security expenditures \Vill begin to exceed annual total income in 2022. Twelve years later. in 2034, with the Social Security Trust Fund exhausted, the Social Security Administration predicts that tax revenues will only be able to pay out 71 percent of its benefit obligations. 
Another factor complicating the future of Social Security is life expectancy. Not only has the average life expectancy 
• 
Chin 
increased from 77 years in 1940 to 82 but Halter also expects "further improvements in life expectancy attributable to a host of developments in medicine and biotechnology." 
President Bill Clinton has pro­posed a three-part plan to help extend the solvency of Social Security. The first part of his strategy entails the use of cur­rent Social Security and overall budget surpluses to pay off pub­licly held debt. By reducing the interest payments on the nation­al debt, this first part of the plan would extend Social Security's solvency to 2050, extending the fund nearly 16 years. 
Second, Clinton proposes the option of allowing "a limited and prudent" portion of the above­mentioned savings to invest in broad-based equity indexes. These investments would add another four years, extending solvency to 2054. 
The third part heralds a com­mitment to bipartisan coopera­tion in Congress to try to extend the solvency of Social Security to 2075. 
"As we engage the Congress, a variety of Lcomprehensive] plans \Vill arise," Halter said. He hopes Congressional involvement will lead to the extension of Social Security for at least the next 75 years. 
In order to raise awareness about the issue, Halter and the Social Security Administration's current goal is to advertise the value of Social Security to Americans. The recent advent of the Social Security Statement and an electronic newsletter are two examples of the Administration's innovative new programs target­ed to educate America. Requiring only an e-mail address. the elec­tronic newsletter is a quick, one­page summary of current changes and upgrades with respect to Social Security avail-

Up 22! 
Happy Birthday, Michelle! Love, Mo,n and Dad 
5-12-78 

Tbu,.sdaqs o•e students niq"t• Students •eceive 25% off meal p•ice witlt 1:1ou• 5fudent I.D. 


Michiana's most uniqtaQ dininq ~,r.p••i,enccr Locof-ecl in ti.. b..ew••'I ot tLe Hisfof'ic l 00 Cenfer in Misl.awalco (219) 257-1792 www.lOOcenfeP.com 
able at the Administration's Web site -www.ssa.gov. 
"Social Security is one of the few comprehensive government programs that serves virtually everyone," said Halter. "Whether it be different age groups or eth­nicities, we want to provide edu­cation [about Social Security and its benefil'>l to the entire popula­tion." 
Nearly one in three Social Security beneficiaries are not retirees. In fact, Social Security records show in 1998 about 95,000 students ages 18 and 19 received benefits from Social Security in 1998. Fifty-six per­cent of those students were the children of deceased workers, with an additional 33 percent being the children of disabled workers. Providing large sums of money to the families of deceased and disabled workers, Social Security is in essence America's family protection plan, according to Halter. 
The value of these programs to young Americans is supported by Social Security Administration statistics: out of today's 20-year olds, one out of four can expect to become disabled before reach­ing age 6 7. Another equally frightening statistic predicts the death of one out of six 20-year olds before age 6 7. 
The other two-thirds of Social Security's beneficiaries are the more than 30 million Americans currently age 65 or older. 
"Huge portions of the popula­tion heavily depend on these pay­ments [for sustenance]." said Halter. 
Over the last 40 years, Social Security has played a crucial part in reducing the poverty rate among senior citizens from 35 percent to 11 percent. According to Social Security calculations, without such a program. the pro­jected poverty rate among the elderly is nearly 50 percent. 
University donor Barber dies at 88 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame donor Gertrude Barber died on her way to a two-week Florida vacation Saturday night. 
"We loved her very much and are deeply saddened," nephew John Barber told reporters. "She died when she was at the height of her power and the top of her game. She was a natural leader. She real­ly thought that nothing was impossible. She had a tremen­dous amount of faith and was able to instill that faith in those who worked for her." 
At the age of 88, Barber suf­fered from a heart attack at a West Virginia hospital. 
Barber, who has been called "the patron saint of special education," taught special education for many years. 
Internationally recognized for her work with the devel­opmentally disabled, Barber was very influential in the Erie, Penn. area where the Dr. Gertrude A. Barber Center was formed to sup­port Barber's efforts. 

The Barber Center has established group homes and programs about autism. Barber also had a program in the works called Project 2000 to promote education, research and services for the disabled. 
Barber was also involved in several national, state and local legislative projects to protect the rights of the mentally disabled. 
"All these laws were creat­ed from people like her going to the government and saying that this child with mental retardation deserves an education just like every­one else," said Robert Will, financial officer of the Barber Center, to reporters. 
Barber received many honors from world leaders including Pope John Paul II and President John F. Kennedy. 
Finals ... done. Graduation ... done. Packing & shipping ... ugh! No Problem. Call Mail Boxes Etc. 

11•MAILBOXESETC' 
Stepan Center Courts 
May 8-13 May17-20 May 22 
May 10-13 
r-------------------------,
l $1.00 Off UPS Shipping : 
I I 
: Per Box : : (with this coupon) l 
L-------------------------J 
1Oam-Spm 10am-5pm 1 Oam-5pm 
Lyons Hall 
1 Oam-5pm 
277-6245 
Mail Boxes Etc. SR 23 & Ironwood 2 blocks east of N.D. Free Pick-ups please call ahead of time to 
schedule a ointment 

Seniors 
You can still purchase tickets for Senior Week! 
Come to 216 LaFortune Thursday 3-5p.rn. 
Purchase T-Shirts too! 
Check your E-Mail for further updates on Sr. Week. 
Questions? Contact Julie Reising or Andrea Selak @ 1-5117 
---------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Martinez becomes first Hispanic to head Miami police 
Tuesday after his predecessor lead the 1,100-membcr depart­
Associated Press 
quit in the political furor over the ment. Elian Gonzalez case. 'Tm very thankful for this
MIAMI 

Haul Martinez, 50. spent 24 appointment. and I pledge to thisA Cuban immigrant vvas sworn years as a police officer. He community that I'm the chief of in as Miami's new police chief becomes the first Hispanic to police for the entire community," 
ENTRY-LEVEL MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 

PEOPLE LIKE YOU PUT US ON THE LIST. 
SO SHOULDN'T WE TAKE YOU WHEREVER YOU WANT TO GO? 
Sand, surf. and endless sunshine. Can't say we blame you for growth more than you ever imagined. \\"here you'll be wanting that on a daily hasis. So if your heart is leading you supplied with all the responsibilities you can handle. And westward 10 Los Angeles, Enterprise Rent-A-Car is ready where you are paid for your performance and promotions are to help you get there, with the kind of incredible career determined by merit rather than seniority. Simply put, there's opportunities you deserve. no better example of an environment where your hard work 
pays off. 

Bevond living in one of the most exciting cities around, you ca~ look forward to working in an atmosph1:re where your It could take a lifetime to discover all the advantages that abili1y to make smart business decisions not only counts for Sou1hern California has to offer. You'll he glad to know there's a something. but it determines your career's direction and company you could describe that way too. Enterprise Rent-A-Car. 
Use Your Head. Join Enterprise. 
For consideration, please contact: 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car Attn: Melody Signaler 3366 Cherry Avenue Long Beach, CA 90807-4909 Phone: (562) 426-4774 Fax: (562) 426-4834 E-mail: msignaterl@erac.com 
Or call toll-free: 1-888-WWW-ERAC 

Visit our Web site at: www.enterprise.com 
Enterprise 
rent-a_-car 

We are an e4ual opportunity eniploycr. 

ast Class Dinnef 
• pizza. subs/ and wings • 
• Trivia &prizes· 

When: Wed, May 3, 2000 
5-7pm Where: £Alumni-Senior Club Cost: $2 
• Bring your ID • 

I 
I 

I
L_ 

Martinez said. 
Over the objections of the mayor, he was selected by City Manager Donald Warshaw, who could be on his way out after being fired by the mayor. Warshaw, who was scheduled to leave ollke Sunday. won a tem­porary stay in court late Tuesday barring his firing. 
Warshaw could also keep his job if four of the five city com­missioners overrule the mayor in a vote expected Thursday. 
Martinez replaces William O'Brien, who resigned folJowing the April 22 federal raid in which Elian was taken from his Miami relatives' home. 
Mayor Joe Carollo was angry that O'Brien hadn't told him that federal agents were about to seize the 6-year-old. Carollo demanded Warshaw fire the chief. Warshaw refused and 
Carollo fired Warshaw last week. O'Brien then quit, saying Carollo 
was divisive.  
Carollo  had  said  he  was  
against Warshaw hiri ng a  new  
chief of police.  

"This is another one of the kny examples of the immoral, unethi­cal actions that this city manager has beun making on his way out," Carollo said. "Out of des­peration, he's grabbing at any­thing that he can to keep himself in power." 
Under the city charter, Warshaw's firing does not take effect for 10 days, which will be Sunday. The charter also speci­fies that the city manager name the police chief, with no require­ment the mayor be consulted. 
"He named a Cuban-American solely to try to see if he could get any of the votes of the Cuban commissioners," Carollo said. 

\saW

·corps, a 
''"'",.th .t\Ulert . hborhoo 
vv t: d tnY netg ,, beyothn
for e 

After graduating from college, Josh Barus joined AmeriCorps to help the youngest members of his 
community­
and he discovered a whole new world. As a teacher's aide in a low-income neighborhood near his home in Boston, Josh worked with students well beyond the regular 

chool hours and provided support they often didn't get at home. "If you see a problem, you have a responsibility to do something about it," Josh says. "AmeriCorps gave me that 
hance." For more information, contact Courtney Nicholas at (312) 353-057 4 or E-mail: cnicholas@cns.gov 
AmeriCorps:Are you up to the challenge? 
1-800-942-2677 www.americorps.org/joining 

O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
Th~ bul,q,n,,ln,1, Dt1i/y Nrwspnp,r &rvi,,g Norr, l>mn, 11nJ Saint Mary '.1 
P.O. Box Q. Notre D.,mt'. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Tim Logan Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIToRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS............... ,..........................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS....................................................... .631-4 543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO..................................... ...................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver. nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
wec:kly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of princ ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
to meet che editors and 
arcides published after 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and on line by the students ofthe Universiry ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Ma1y's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeicher institution. The Observer reserves the right to refi.1se advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorial~ represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commemaries, leuers and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.ccrers co rhe Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed ro Editor in ChiefMike Comw/~y. 


l~ 

Raids on Elian set a bad precedent 
I suppose I now have something in common with the Progressive Student Alliance. 
An action of the United States govern­ment sickened me. Not dining-hall­turkey or funky­quarter-dog sick, but that hopeless melancholy queasi­ness somewhere in your gut that only occurs when you watch a tragedy unfold. It was, of course, the federal raid to practically kidnap Elian Gonzalez two Saturdays ago that brought about this illness. Polls say that most Americans support the raid, which only nauseates me more and proves that most Americans (including several Observer columnists) have no idea what life is like in Cuba. 
Folks, Cuba is dirt-poor. Electricity and sometimes running water are shut ofT at 9 p.m. Modern technologies vvhich we take for granted -automobiles, transportation in general, telephones, televisions and electricity -are at l950s levels or worse. Since Fidel Castro's revolution, Cuba has regressed in almost every socioeconomic catego­ry; even where they have improved, it has been at a far slower pace than the rest of the world. 
You wouldn't know that by listening to Castro, though. At international con­ventions, he has had the cojones to actually state that it is capitalism that causes poverty. The Cuban media is a willing parrot of this propaganda, which is another, more frightening rea­son why America runs hoops around Cuba: total censorship. 
Imagine if, every day, The Observer's headlines were how wonderful the Administration is, how fantastic it is that they deny official University status to OUTreachND or how marvelous pari­etals are. Multiply that by every Cuban media outlet that can miraculously still function and you have the Orwellian nightmare that is Cuba. 

When Kimmi Martin stated that because Castro was treated to thunder­ous applause, "apparently not everyone thought he was horrible," last Wednesday, she was not dealing with the shocking reality: the Cuban people have either been brainwashed into thinking that Castro is their savior or are afraid of the repercussions of hav­ing a dissenting opinion. 
Martin laments the fact that she has not "heard from a Cuban who presents the other side." That's because there's only one side to Cuba: barbarous and economically backward. The Cuban refugees who populate Little Havana know this truth, escaped from it and are trying to keep Elian from being returned to one of Earth's closest approximations to hell. 
Many people who do not understand these harsh realities say that it's best to return Elian to Cuba on the grounds of' parental rights, when "parental rights" do not exist in Cuba. According to the Cuban Constitution, the boy is techni­cally under the care of the state. This means two things: first, that Juan Miguel Gonzalez is a non-factor in this argument sinct1 he is a non-factor in Cuba. Second, turning the question of where Elicin stays into a debate over Castro and his control of Cuba is not "stupid, stupid, stupid!" as Gary Caruso stated on April 11, but actually the only proper frame for the argument. Should Elian stay here or should he return to Castro? 
Juan Miguel is also channeling Castro's propaganda. In a TV interview, he read right out of the Castro Propaganda Handbook by saying that the U.S. is worse than Cuba because of things like school shootings, an argu­ment strikingly similar to Clayton Swope's fallacious suggestions on April 
20. Perhaps both of them can then 
explain why thousands of Cubans 
(including Elian's mother) risk their 
lives only to reach America. 
Whatever your beliefs about where Elian should stay, if you were not sick­ened by Janet Reno reneging on her promises that there would be no mid­night raid to take Elian by uniformed armed soldiers, you have a problem. If you could look at the now famous pic­ture of Elian staring down the barrel of an MP-5 submachine gun without being repulsed, I'm quite sure you're not human. 
Under the guises that Eli1.in was being abused (made by a shrink who had never met the boy) or that there "might" have been weapons in the hous1~. the Immigration and Naturalization Service sent in a S\VAT team to grab him, then clcarc~d a path by spraying tear gas at several innocent people in the house and at dozens of' peaceful protestors outside. 
llad this happened to Aaron Kreider and his "nonviolent army" in Washington, it would be brutality in the first degree; apparently it's as accept­able in Little Havana as it is in Havana. 
If Elian was returned to Cuba peace­fully and you asked him in 15 years what separates Cuba from America, odds are he would give you tlrn flowery, America-as-land-of-milk-and-honey sort of speech that inspired his mom to sacrifice herself to cnsurn that he lived here. Now that his defining memory or the U.S. is the INS kicking down tho door and all but kidnapping him, bis response would probably be ";,Qm~ cs la diferencia?" -"What's the difforencc?" 
Mike Marchand is an off-campus junior English major who would like lo remind everyone that his 20th birthday is July 13. and that he accepts Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover or. al the very least. e-card.~ sent to him at Marchand.3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

AS CEO l I THANK YOU FOR MAKING ME OBSCENELY 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"This will remain the land ofthe free only so long as it is the home ofthe brave . ., 
Elmer Davis CBS news commentator 



O
THE Wednesday, May 3, 2000 BSERVER page I 3 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Give grounds crew more credit 

Eight thousand tulips from Denmark. 
Who plants them? No, they do not travel 
first class and plant themselves. Where do 
all the cig,rrette butts that students care-
1,issly flip on the grnu nd in front of 
Madcleva Hall disappear to? No. there is 
not some tobacco junkie lurking around at 
night collecting them. And who keeps the 
grass from growing to resemble an over­
grown jungle? No, ducks don't eat grass, 
and even if they did, they couldn't eat that 
much. The answ,~r to all of these questions 
!ins in the "Grnen Men" about campus. 
Thnso "Grnen Men," otherwise known as 
th11 Grounds C:n\W, do not receive the 
rnspPct that they deserve. and that must be 
changed! 
If you're asking yourself who the Grounds Crew is, you might l'aintly recall seeing some men riding around campus in gray "EZ-go" carts, which are similar to golf carts. Or maybe you've seen one of them outside of the Science Building pulling weeds from the flower boxes or planting new bulbs in the Hock Garden. They are the men behind the lawn mowers, shovels, tractors and rakes all over campus. They are what makes this campus what it is, which means keeping the entirn grounds in shape and in the condition worthy of an appearance in llome and Gardens maga­zine. 
The men are iwen color-coded for your convenience. They arc the ones wearing grnen t-shirts and black shorts or pants. John is tlrn one with the long black and sil­V(~r hair and an ex-litt~rature professor. Lance, father of ono, is sporting a now buzz in anticipation of the summer heat. Hich is always wearing mirrored sunglasses and has a rww baby. Dan. a former Marine. will be celebrating his wedding in September. Tim, tlw newBst addition to the group of nwn, is the lanky smoker. They're vHry easy to recognize, just look on the right side or their shirts. The shirts read, Saint Mary's College Grounds Crew. That's just a no­brainer. 
Manv students avoid the Grounds Crew for va,:ious reasons. unlnss they rn~ed some­thing done. Thes(i things range from tasks such as raking all the leaves around foot­ball S(\ason. putting together a bookshelf or even changing a flat tire. Some ignore them bccaus(' they don't believe in talking to pmJple that perform what they think to be menial labor. A 40-hour work week, in whatever elements Mother Nature whips up, doing nothing but hard muscle-building work. is hardly menial. 
Others shy away from the Grounds Crew becaUSf' they foar that the men might bite. I assure you, they do not. They am good natured fathers and husbands and are far from the bottom rung of humanity wlrnre some Saint Mary's students think they belong. 
Give these hard-working men some cred­it! They maintain this entire campus in mint condition, and vvith all their green thumbs combined, make the gardens and !lower boxes all around campus come to lifo with fragrance and color. They pick up all of our discardNI juice boxes and candy wrappns that somehmv missed gntting in a rwarby garbagn can. 
Next tinw you see a nwmbPr of' thn Grounds Cr~w, don't bl\ aloof. don't be ner­vous. Give him a \Veit desNvl'd pat on th(\ back or at least a hello. 
Maria Pilar Paulick 
Sophomore 
Le.\fan, tLtil 
;,., tar 2. 2000 

Readers react to Pax Christi letter 
Contrary to Ben Peters and Kyle Smith, who's May 1 letter expressed the view that ROTC on campus is a cause to mourn, it is indeed something for which we at Notre Dame have cause in which to take great pride. 
Like Peters and Smith, I pray for our University, that it will continue to infuse Christian moral sensibilities into all who study here, so that they will carry those values into whatever endeavor they undertake. And, I also pray for oµr students in ROTC, because for whatever period of time they serve in the military, they carry significant responsibility for maintaining our peace. 
But unlike Peters and Smith, I do not mourn. I take great pride. 
Dick Fremgen 
Mendoza College ofBusiness NROTC, Class of'60 May2,2000 / 
I 

It is very simple to find fault with an / institution that one . /11 A clearly does not / (/<~
know anything about and it is very , evident in their let-/ ter that they know ,/ /~ nothing about our '(7Vl,#!,,; nation's military 1 
spoke to some of the takes to defend 
or about what it ._,_____--~ 
cadets and midship­the very basic 
men, they would rights and free­realize that for us it doms that every is not just a slogan. man and woman Each and every one deserves to of us deals with how enjoy. to balance our faith 
You owe your with our sense of freedoms to the duty and patrio­men and tism. Each one of us women who integrates these have gone two, bringing to our before you and services the very worn the uni­moral sensibilities form of' our that Ben and Kyle country. It is mock in their letter. with great pride In the end, while and honor that Ben and Kyle mourn in two weeks the for us, the ROTC very men and cadets of Notre women you Dame, I mourn for mourn will pin on them. those gold bars I mourn for them and defend our because they trample freedoms against on the memory of all the Hitlers and the the ND alumni who Milosevics. As for sacrificed their lives for not caring about life this country, and I and property, every mourn for them military mission is because they bite the planned to be carried hand that ensures their out with a minimum As for the F-16 loss of life and destruc­fly-by, well, I thought it tion of property. So, Mr. Peters and Mr. Smith, tonight when you go to 
Melissa Lou Freshman McGlinn Hall 

Letters for the Commencement Edition will be_ accepted until May 15. Please send them to observer.viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
I remember my father setting me down one day and telling me, when I asked him why he joined the military, that he hoped he never had to do his job but that he would do so that I could grow up in a country where I did not have to live in fear of oppression and have the aforementioned rights. Do those sound like the words of a man who is simply a killing machine pro­grammed by the U.S. government to kill? A man without morals? Where you mourn these men and students, I salute them. Where you see the F-16 as a symbol of violence and destruc­tion, I see a symbol of pride and free­dom. So as you mourn, I salute, con­gratulate and take pride. 
Patrick Esper 
Freshman Dillon Hall May 2, 2000 

I would like to commend both Ben Peters and Kyle Smith for exercising their right to voice their opin­ions, while reminding 
them to thank the ROTC cadets for the freedom of speech that they love to use. As for 'God, Country, Notre Dame,' if the people in Pax Christi 
sands of men and women who am still awake and protecting you and your families from injustice. 
Do not mourn your brothers and sis­ters, your roommates, your classmates and your colleagues for performing a service that so many are unwilling to do. Instead, l suggest you thank them. Sleep soundly my brothers. Sleep soundly. 
Daniel J. Logisz 
Senior OffCampus May l, 2000 

The annual Pass-In-Review that Notre Dame ROTC performs is a sign of appreciation to Father Malloy and the entire Notre Dame community for host­ing our program throughout the years and magnifying the highly ethical training that HOTC students receive. The ethics and morals taught by ROTC professors in addition to the spiritual environment of Notre Dame is the ulti­mate situation to train moral leaders for tomorrow's military. 
HOTC students continue this proud heritage and do so having developed their own perspective and morality. I 
have developed my own ideals and 
ethics and consequently, I will also 
make that vow to defend you. I will 
commit my life to serving my nation's 
military so that people can set their 
priorities however they want to. Thank 
you for providing another opportunity 
for ROTC students to reassert their 
belief in what they are doing. 
Brian Holinka 
Senior Off-Campus May 2, 2000 

There would be no need for war in a 
perfect world. Unfortunately, we do not 
live in a perfect world by any stretch of 
the imagination. As Christians we 
must discourage war whenever possi­
ble and promote peace. 
Our armed forces and ROTC do just 
that. They do not glorify violence as 
Ben Peters, Kyle Smith and a very 
small majority would have you believe. 
Such ignorance can be attributed to 
the comfort zone we live in. We do nut 
have to worry about warring factions 
killing each other in front of our 
homes. We have fire alarms in our 
houses instead ofgas masks. We do 
not have to line ou·r baby cribs with 
plastic to prevent exposure of chemical 
weapons to our children. Such occur­
rences are quite common around the 
world. 

The men and women in HOTC make 
sacrifices in order to stand up for what 
they believe in. They will have the awe­
some responsibility ofsafeguarding 
America's sons and daughters. They 
are not afraid to make the ultimate 
sacrifice like so many have done before 
them. We pray they will never have to 
use force and, together, we praise and 
thank them for their selfless service to 
each and every one of us. We salutn 
them. 
Matt Graziano Junior Carroll Hall Army ROTC May l, 2000 

Kudos to Notre Dame's Pax Christi. After centuries of disuse, Notre Dame has finally restored an ofilcial ministry of mourners to its campus. The only problem is that the mourners limit their ministry to ROTC students, Father Warner and Monk. 
Even more disturbing is the exclu­sion of the millions of people who suf­fer due to the evil tyrants around the world. Does Pax Christi mourn these people as well? 
I stress the witness to life since I understand the Christian call to non­violence as a special calling to live and help the oppressed. Non-violence is a calling that may threaten your life as well because it necessarily places the Christian on the firing end of guns and other weapons. And then from this position works towards solutions that resolve conflict. 
I only here protest, "Get rid of the military." What about the violated and disempowered? Pax Christi-ND is silPnt on working out creative solutions to conllict. Hather they simply want to protest. And mourn. 
Chris Culver 
Masters of Di,·inity May 2, 2000 


cene 

Schwin 
A Scene reporter goes undercover to enter t 
My bicycle. My sweet red machine. My beloved pedal donkey. My spokey cru­sader. I had so many names for her. I len-rietta, the Fiery-Eyed. She was real to me. Sleek red with a sturdy frame, a goose starling squeeze-horn, wheels that could make a man turn blindly on his side and scream for caramel. 
J\ncl she was taken away from me three months ago. Stolen from me right out­side the un-watching eyes of the Hesburgh Library. 
Mine is not a rare plight, not on this campus or most others throughout America. A 1994 study by Integrated Cycle Systems found that a student at a four-year college has a 53 percent chance of having his or her bicycle stolen. It is a startlingly high number, but it seems to pan out even here at Notre Dame ifone asks around. Nearly everyone I asked -those who said they had a bike -had had theirs stolen at least once while it was on-campus. Some of them had been recovered and others had not, but all were made aware of a certain level of violation that comes with having your bicycle stolen. 
Dillon sophomores Alex Menze and Dan Chew both had their locks cut and their bicycles stolen over Easter Break. "This is the second time this semester my bike has been stolen," said Menze. "I got it back the first time. Security found it abandoned by Moose Kraust1 Circle. Whoever took it pumped up the tires." 
Chew added: "II' I find the guy who stole my bike, I hope he's reading this. I'm going to bust my bike lock over his head." So if you're reading this. and you know the bike you stole is Dan Chew's, put it back beside Dillon unless you want 



to get your head busted upon. on this bench 
It might seem strange to read, but a across the quad, person really develops an attachment to directly in front his or her bike. For a student living off­of Iloward Hall. campus especially, but for anyone really, My plan is this, owning a bike is a relationship as strong wait until the as any other. You know which gears are thief is upon the the best for different situations, different bike and trying moods. You know how your bike takes to ride it away. bumps, which ones will punish your When this is groin and which ones you can sort of done, I will cruise over without screaming. spring from my 
You know your brakes and when to bench, sprint use them. You get used to how a certain across the quad bike feels beneath you, and when that is and yell, taken away by some stranger who has "Freeze! no right to a relationship with your bicy­Observer!" And cle, well, that hurts a lot. It hurts to if it doesn't look know that sonrnone else is riding around like the person on her, pushing her pedals and honking is capable of her horn. catching and 
What sort of person could take this beating me up, I away from another human being? What 
The only way I could 

could possibly be going through a bicycle think ofto interview a thiefs mind when he 
bicycle thief was to set
orshetakesitupon 
up a stakeout and to

him or herself to deprivc1 you of that catch the wee-bugger in relationship? 
the act. 

The motivation behind this immorality is so dense to my simple mind that I will then take could not begin to comprehend its their picture actions. When I began to think about it, I with my 35mm began to realize that I had to know what camera and made a bicycle thief tick. The only way I threaten to pub­knew to find that out was to interview a lish it or take it bicycle thiof. And the only way I could to security if I think of to interview a bicycle thief was am not granted to set up a stakeout and to catch the an interview. wee-bugger in the act. So that's what I They will cer­did. tainly not 
escape me with April 29, 9 p.m. the tire in its 
I have parked my recovered bike in current condi­front of South Dining Hall. It is fairly well tion and me lit, tremendously unlocked and it has a being the fleet-footed fellow that I am. flat tire. My observation post is located 
9:30 p.m. 

The bike is still there, and everyone who passes is ignoring it. It grows cold on this bench, and my thoughts turn to Paris and happier days. I think back to what a friend asked me earlier in the day, "What if it's not like a normal bike thief'! What if it's a Townie? What if they try to cut you?" 
But I myself am a resident of South Bend and I know how to handle llrnse people. The thing to do in South Bend when confronted with a knife is to run like hell. They teach you that from the first day at Perley Elementary to the last day at Adams High School. 
We had knife safety assemblies all the time in school, with speakers like Ot1iccr Jack and his friend Jimmy the "Hun like Hell" Bear. Not to mention the "Stay in Shape or You'll Be Cut Down In Your Prime" players. Oh yes, I know how to handle these people. 
10:30 p.m. 

The quad is very quiet now, and if not for the sound of someone chewing on LaFortune gummy worms, all would be silent. That someone is me. My bicycle rests -still -a dnad thing in Urn dark­ness across tho quad. It has not heen so much as accosted as ol' yet, and so I turn to my headphones for solace and enter­tainment. 
U93's Open House Party is playing right now, the only time the station is remotely tolerable. As long as I have this forum. might Ijust add that U93's Morning Show is poisoning South !fond's mind -and probably its water as well -and should be dismantled and burned as a warning to others, a warning that says if you're thinking of being hideously corny in a public forum, especially in the 

morning, and then laughing at yourself 
like a gawking yokel hopped up on mus­
cle relaxants, please think twice because 
it upsets Andrew McDonnell, Sceno I 
1' 
1·
Writer. 
10:34 p.m. 

Police sirens sound in the distance ­doubtless some other bicycle has been stolen and the NDSPD are in hot pursuit. Actually, probably not. It will probably , I 
!:
be something along these lines: 
Midnight 

This is dumb. I am now moving my bicycle to the place from whcffe it was previously stolen, the bicycle racks on the Juniper side of the Ilesburgh Library. It will be darker, and more lonely, but I have my roommate's bike parknd there as well, and I can use that one as a pur­suit vehicle if I need to. 
12:07 a.m. 

The egg has been laynd and Mothor Sky Hawk is within visible striking posi­tion should the cuckoo invade upon tlw integrity of the nest. I'm sitting in tlw conrnr of the bus stop slrnlt•~r where I cannot Im seen. I am danwd near invisi­ble in this bus shelter. Yi~s I am. I am also very cold. 
12:30 a.m. 

A Transpo is pulling up to the stop so I'm leaving. I hate that moment when the bus pulls up and opens its doors and the driver is there waiting for you to come aboard, but you aren't getting on the bus. You're just waiting to see if your bike gets stolen. and the bus driver is still just waiting for you. And you're diverting your gaze as ifyou haven't even noticed that an enormous bus has 


cene 
Wednesday, May 3, 2000 page 15 
_ndled! 
·he labyrinth-like mind of the bicycle thief 
South Dining fills the air and is allowed to ring. The Them: No. Hall to meet curtains close.) Me: I didn't think so. the post-pari­Them: I'm sorry. etals storming 11:30 p.m. Me: Aren't you my buddy Molly of Heckers. Transfer bicycle to main entrance of McShane? 
DeBartolo Hall. Someone looking to steal Them: No. 
1:54 a.m. bikes will look here. Me: Didn't I, in fact, ask you to take 
I am passed this bicycle because I was getting bored on the sidewalk 1 a.m. and no one was stealing my bike? by an ND I grow weary of' this apathy amongst Them: No. Security SUV our campus thieves. What's wrong with Me: Yeah you are. and mentally my bicycle? The tire's flat, yes, but you Them: Yeah. prepare myself wouldn't notice that until you were rid­for an explana­ing! Steal my bicycle! 2 a.m. tion to the offi­I am so tired it hurts. I parked the bike cers as to why I 1:15 a. m. by O'Shaughnessy with the signs still on am walking I have made a sign that says, "STEAL it and I'm riding the pursuit bicycle around campus ME!" and taped it to my bicycle seat. I home to sleep. at 1 :54 in the have rolled my bike into the blazing light morning with a of the Sesquicentennial Commons So I guess what I learned from this bicycle in each behind ritzpatrick Hall where it cannot experience is that the most effective hand. This be missed, and I am hiding and waiting. deterrents against bicycle theft are: 
No.1 -to actually want to have yourmoment never bicycle stolen. When you can do this. you
arrives though, 1:30 a.m. 
will never have your bike robbed off of'as the cops No one is taking my bike so I made you.
continue past. another sign that says "NOBODY'S No. 2 -make signs on yellow legal rair enough. WATCHING" and taped it next to the 
notebook paper and tape them to your
"Sl"E"AL ME" sign..
. . 

unlocked bicycle. They are, perhaps, not foolproof meth­
1:57 a.m. 1:35 a.m. 
ods. but are apparently more effectiveBike replaced Jogger paused and read the sign on 
than those little cable coils that a lot of
in front of my bike. Continued on. 
people use and find snipped in two. AllSouth Dining in all, my methods and Kryptonite locks
Hall. Post rcms­1:45 a.m. 
with insurance guarantees are certainly
sumed in front At last, a shadowy figure appears and your best bet for bicycle safety.
of Howard Hall. examines the bicycle. Short brown hair. 
For those of you who are bike thievesAbout my height. I run out from my 
reading this, just be aware, think twice
2:30 a.m. bench and yell, "Freeze! Observer!" 
before you reach for that Schwinn.
Crowds have 
Remember, there might just be anpassed and no The would-be thief stops and looks at 
English major lurking in the bushes, 
one has even me. 
waiting and watching for you to come
glanced at my Me: Why are ·you taking this bike'? 
along -and I can't say that he'll be as 
bike. What's Them: It's cold and I've been studying 
kind as me. So watch your back. And 
wrong with my and Ijust want to get home. 
give me back the horn you took from mybike? It was Me: Didn't you stop to think about how red Schwinn. you turd. 
good enough to it would make this bike's owner feel if
eist. 
steal once. Why they found their bike stolen? 
The opinions expressed in this column 
not steal it Them: No. 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
just pulled up; and maybe the bus driver twice? It's cold as crap out here and I'm Me: Didn't you? sarily those ofThe Observer. 
says something like, "I Icy, you coming or 
angry because Open House Party played

what'?" And you haw no n~ply, you just 
the Thong Song and now I can't get it prc\tcnd you didn't lwar him, and you out of me head. "Thong. thong-thong­
still hav,•n't noticed the bus. So then thong-thong. She dumps like a truck,maybe the bus driver throws a handful truck. truck" ... Want to die now. 
of change at you to g1~t your attention and a quarter hits you in tlw forehead, 
3 a.m. 

and you look up startled, and say...lluh'? 
Going in to thaw in my friends' quad in Oh. I'm sorry. I didn't S<!e you there." 
Dillon. where they should be gettingAnd lw just shakes his lu~ad and closes back from Club 23. 
tlw door and drives away, and you pick up a 1wnny and throw it at the bus· tail­
11 a.m. 

light as it pulls away. 
\,Yoke up on couch in Dillon. 

But tlw bus drivnr notices and stops Apparnntly fell asleep during "The 
the hus and the door opens and hP 
Haunting" -worst movie ewer -and climbs out and he's rolling up his 
will now check on bike outside. 

sleoves. and you're sitting on the bench thinking, "Oh crap, oh crap what am I 
11:03 a.m. 

supposnd to do lwrt\ 
Bicycle still very much what did they teach us 
there. 

at Perley Elenwntary'! At last. a shadowy Oh 1·rap. oh crap" -figure appears and April 30, 10 p.m.and tlwn it comes to 
exa,nines the bicycle ... Stakeout rn-estab­
you and you start to lished in front of
I run oul fronz my

run away, but the bus ()'Shaughnessy Hall. 
driwr is stunningly bench and yell. 
Very dark bike racks. I nimbln and has you by 
"Freeze! Observer!" hope this will add to the 
the ankl1~s and bPl'ore allure of' my unlocked you ran scream his bicycle. The day has fists arn hitting in your benn rough since this morning. Went to mouth, and tlwn all is black1wss. I hate BookstorP Basketball, did homework,thos<' monwnts. 
drank a rootbcnr 11oat. wPnt to a movie and everywlwrP I wPnt. I had the same 
12:35 a.m. 
bizarre conversation. 

I niturn to my post. Awkward situation aw~rh•d. 
Someone else: "Did your bike get 
t.,..
t I
so en ye . 

1:50 a.m. Me: "No." (sounding disappointed)No one is stealing my f'rickin' bicycle 
Someone else: 'Tm sorry."and I foe! very shady sitting in the dark­
Me: "That's alright. I'm going tu try ness by myself for long periods of' time, ANDREW MCDONNELL/The Observer 
again tonight."

and so now I must move. I will walk my Statistics show that students have a 53 percent chance of getting their bikes
Someone else: ''I'll steal it for you."decoy bicycle with the flat tire and my Me: "No thanks." stolen while in college. Unfortunately, no one would take this writer's bike ­



roommate's pursuit bicycle back over to 
(The sound of a piano wire snapping even when he begged! 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
doing well, you get some key school. His 14 years playing in were my first recruiting class." tiny arena and less than opti­injuries, lose three players to the NHL and his intimate That first talented recruiting mal facilities, the hockey team
Hockey 

the World Junior Team. All knowledge of Notre Dame as a class led to another strong is still the third-largest revenue 
those factors combine and it member of the class the producing sport at Notre
continued from page 28 

feels like a wave right in your Class of 198 2 next sea­Dame-behind football and
"We went through some
Because our progression had face but I think we rebounded helped him sell son, with men's basketball. been so steady, we thought the strongly." Irish hockey. growing pains without players like "I think that [a new arena] is When the Irish rebounded Notre Dame's Carlson a goal of ours," Poulin said. "If
next step was just going to take question. We went through
place. We forgot about the and returned to Joe Louis prestige and and Hyan we look around the league and 
some issues with the team
work that it took to get there." Arena for the first time in near­academic stan­Clark join-look at revenue production, The team continued to strug­ly 20 years. they did more than dards are some in the locker room that we ing the there are a lot of teams making gle. The losing and frustration salvage the season. they set a of the biggest had to straighten out and Irish to a lot of revenue in state-of-thc­that began in October stretched new standard for Notre Dame selling points play for art facilities. I believe we are 
we straightened them out.
hockey. A standard·that Poulin during recruit­Poulin and showing the need for it. We can
through November and 

December. The new year didn't hopes to raise even higher. ing. Then the second halfofthe with stars control one thing and that is bring an end to the losing as "The next bar for us is the "The stan-season was terrific. ,. like Simon. winning. We are showing that 
the Irish won just once in the NCAA tournament," Poulin dards of excel­"Once we are an exciting product and first games of 2000 to fall to 8-said. "That's a definite goal for lence and the lthe first that we are fun to come and 13-5 on the year. us. We've talked about that and discipline that is David Poulin recruiting see. We are controlling our end 
"We went through some talked about separating our­necessary are Irish hockey coach class] was of it." growing pains without ques­selves from the rest of the huge factors in in, it was A new arena. along with a tion," Poulin said. "\,Ve went league. And so I know the goals our hockey 'come play trip to the NCAA tournament, through some issues with the and challenges that I have recruiting," with these would be the crown jewels in team in the locker room that now." Poulin said. "The prestige and guys,"' Poulin said. "People Poulin's program. A program
tradition of this University is want to play with those kids that is showing signs of becom­
we had to straighten out and 

what separates it from other
we straightened them out. and then the next class falls ing one of the elites. 
Getting the players 1
paces. n 

Then the second half of the in to place and you go from "I think there are always
As Poulin has raised the stan­
In his first season Poulin 
there." stumbling blocks." Poulin saidseason was terrific." dards for Notre Dame, Notre 
lured top high schoolers like 
of his first five years at NotreOn January 21, junior Dan Dame has responded m turn by 

Ben Simon, Nathan Borega and 
Dame. "But I think we are nowCarlson started the Irish turn­giving him more scholarships. Building for the future 

Tyson Fraser -a group that
around with a bang. Trailing one of the elite programs in the
When Poulin arrived in 1995, With top-notch talent, the
would go on to captain the Irish
Western Michigan 3-2 with country. The past two years we
he had 14.4 scholarships to Irish have gone from the base­
to the CCHA semifinals this
1:23 left in the third period, offer. This was later raised to year. ment of the CCHA to a top-four have been a top-four team in Carlson scored the game-tying 16 and then to 18 -the NCAA "That is why this senior class team. But as the ldsh have the CCHA. We have been in the 
goal and followed it up with the maximum for hockey. has been so special," Poulin grown, their home in the Joyce [national] top 10 for a number game-winner in overtime. That "That is a significant factor in said. "They were the first ones Center has not. With a capacity of weeks -last year f'or 18 victory would turn the season the sense that we have a level to take a chance and said 'We of just 2,667, Notre Dame plays straight weeks. This year going around for the Irish. playing field," Poulin said. "I understand what he is saying. in one of the smallest arenas in to Joe Louis, going to the con­
''From that point forward, think the right things have We believe we can be one of the CCHA. While other schools ference semifinals, being within there was sort of a re-found been done for the long term the top programs.' That was like Ohio State have brand one win of the NCAAs -all belief," Poulin said. program, not a short term fix." why it was so important for us new, state-of-the-art facilities, those things point toward us 
"Confidence is very fragile at Poulin·s first challenge as to go to Joe Louis. It had been a the Irish play in front of tempo­going in the right direction." this level. When we got down head coach was to convince top goal of this class and these rary bleachers on an ice sur­A direction that, right now, early, it's easy to get steam recruits that Notre Dame was eight players will always be face that doesn't even exist for doesn't point Poulin toward rolled over. Other teams are going to be a serious hockey special for the fact that they most of the year. Despite the Boston or any other NHL city. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
EXTENDED store hours during finals week 
Mon-Fri: 7:30 a.m.-Mid Sat & Sun: 10:00 a.m,-Mid 
Need help with a project? 
Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING services are available at THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Call 631-COPY 
Fax it fast! Fax 1t fast! Fax it fast! Sending & Receiving 
THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center 
Our Fax # (219) 631-3291 
THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center 
High-Speed Copying Color Copying Resumes Business Cards Fax Service Desktop Publishing & a whole lot more! 
Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery Call 631-COPY 
Study Days & Finals Week ...Special'.. 
3.5 cent self-serve copies 
3.5 cent self-serve copies 
3.5 cent self-serve copies From 5/1-5/12 THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center We accept Domer Dollars too! Call 631-COPY 
WANTED 
Summer Server Needed Flexible Hours, Great Pay Close to Campus K's Grill & Pub 277-2527 
Need child care in Granger home. 15 hrs/week. Summer. Call Katie 271-1 935. 
Professor seeks summer nanny for energetic 4-yr-old boy. Must like horses and horse shows. Weekends. Call Prof. Miller at 631-4133. Stipend plus expenses. 
Wanted: Summer Sublease Grad student needs one or two bedroom, one bath ale nonsmoke Dan 4-3144 
RecSports Student Supervisor 
Supervisors work at least 15 hours per week, splitting their time between office hours and on-site supervision of RecSports activities. Each supervisor is assigned to vari­ous intramural sports throughout the year and is responsible for administering these activities from sign-ups to completion. Weekend work is required. 
Summer employment in Granger for child care for 8 and 1Oyr old girls. 4 days a week, must have own transportation. Looking for some­one who wants to interact and play with the girls. Interested applicants should contact Amy Mailander 273­1975. References and resume to be supplied. 
Moving away? Help us furnish our house. Want to buy: coaches, futons, chairs, grill, patio furniture, TVNCR. dressers, desks. etc. in good condi• tion. Please email avogel@nd.edu . 
Alum buying Notre Dame football 
memorabilia. Programs. ticket 
stubs. equipment, etc. 277-3097 or 
write Dave Schroeter, 15817 
Ashville Lane. Granger, Indiana 
46530 
Wanted to buy-men's and 
women's bikes. Call 273-0251. 
FOR RENT 
Rental Houses for 4-6 students with large rooms. W&D. 291-2209 Dave. 

Houses for Rent: 1) 5-bedroom,$1000/month 2) 2-bedroom, $500/month We'll make almost any changes to the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776. 
College Park Apt. for rent June and July. Will pay water bill! W/D, clean. girl rented. 28, 28. Call 243-2779. 
Summer Interns! Apt. for rent in Chicago's Lincoln park area. Avail. July 1-Aug. 31 (w/opt. to extend for 12 months). 2 bdrm, 1 bath, kitchen w/new appliances, large dining rm, deck, yard. On tree lined street 1.5 blocks from el and bus. $1155/month. Call Amy 773-868-6064. 
College Pk apt. to sublet from 5/24 to 8/1 very good condition. low price. Call 243-0190. 
Turtle Creek studio apt sublet from 5/17 to 8/1, next to campus, air, fur· nished and full utilities, $600 total or best offer. Call 219-277-0171 
Nice homes north of ND. Good area. 277-3097. 
SeniorslH Working in Chicago in the fall? One roommate needed for Lincoln Park area. lf interested, contact 
ASAP!!! 
251-9535, ask for Rebecca. 
28A, 2nd fir. Apt., $525/mo. Along St. Joe River. Include. Water/Sec. Syst./Trash 288-2654 
FOR SALE 
Beatiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $235. (219) 862-2082 
Mazda 626LX '90, air, sunroof 4-dr, great cond:, $3300 219-291-1927 
1987 Black Saab 9000 In great shape. Need to sell! $2300-negotiable. Call Stacey: 634-2511 
Gibson LP 234-6245 

Vintage Gibson ES-160. Aaron at 4-4235. 
Complete Bedroom Set! Full size bed, 2 end tables, desk w/overhead bookshelf, sm. table. $350.00 (obo for ind. Items) Call Chiara @ 232-6113 
1988 Mazda 323-126k. new clutch, parts, excel. Cond. $1000 obo. Call Chiara @ 232-6113. 
1978 Mustang, 65,000 miles. Runs great. $6999. Call Trevor 634-2075. 
callaway ere 10' driver stiff shaft. Call 277-7304 before 9 p.m. 
New Sony Minidisc players. $159 up, JVC headphones. Call 4-1805 
Lost and Found 
Lost: blue warmup jacket. Left in LaFun. Please call Eric at X-4606. 
Lost: gold necklace with small cross; lost 4/25; reward; please call 4-3706 
PERSONAL 
..••• This is the FINAL REGULAR issue of THE OBSERVER...... The commencement issue is May 19th 
KN-don't study too hard this week because you have to make good on your promise. Love, CK 
Beware of the loft police. 
Okay, we are geeks. How can there be more than one Enrique Iglesias?!? I am so disappointed. Maybe the singer Enrique leads a double-life as a president of a bank. 
But Jose said he will dance like Ricky Martin for us although it may give him back spasms. 
CK-If I fall out of the bunk bed, you better catch me. 
Oh yeah! It's margarita night. Look out South Bend. room 450 is letting loose! 
Congrats Colleen! Now I have another reason to visit you next Fall Break 
Tish ... sorry about the CD ... I can get you one tomorrow ... maybe Friday 
Loren, Jessica, Larice ..530 at 5:30 was fun ... we should do that again. 
Lo, Jes, Crazy Larice .... it's all about the swine. 
Colleen ... so sorry about the Enrique 
V. Iglesias thing. 

To everyone ...Have a great sum• mer. 
amber, feel better, don't work too hard. Think ... senior bar tonight, heart­land tomorrow. 
alirose are we going to break loose tonight after your test? We can still party if we're not 21. 
who's the birthday girl in 315? No more going in two doors at boat club. 
thanks for a great year, Observer staff. 
Scholastic's getting trounced in our little contest Friday. 
Heather: you want us to do WHAT with our beds? 
Erin Elizabeth O'LEARY. this one's for you 
One whole week with nothing to do but "study." Woo-hoo. 
silly 
later dudes. I'm outta here. 

kelle, this is the last classified i will write to you m our freshman year' 
katie metz. after today we will no longer have the pleasure of mess­ing up mario's hair 
hey kristin, kate and lauren: it's been a great year, can't wait 'til next year! luv you all! 
hey markus! what's up babe?i hope you are having a fabulous day' 
becky darling. you are just too cute for me. 
oh how fast can i go? 
i'm leavin' on a jet plane don't know when i'IJ be back again 
hey ZACKY! i have a great idea! how about i let you play softball with me today? sound good?okay, then how about i let you give us pang­born girls a concert? 
everyday, it's a-gettin closer goin' faster than a roller coaster love like yours will surely come my way a-hey a-hey hey 
i love the fishes cause they're so delicious 
00000 
cheerios! 
gotta catch that little red rodeo 
are you a boy who wants a younger sister to adopt? well, if so, don't call me! i have two and they are just too much to handle 
spring break 2001 oh yeah 
oh what a beautiful morning oh what a beautiful day i got a beautiful feeling everything's going my way 
this is the last time i will be m the observer office at three o'clock in the morning of my freshman year. what a shame 
observer schmobserver 
here's to a great year! 
g'night all, i luv you! 

-
...,.. 

Wednesday, May 3, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Global resources, local presence 



UBS Warburg 
www. u bswarburg .com 
UBS Warburg ,s the brand name for the investment banking d1111s1on of UBS AG and its investment bankmg subsidiaries worldwide. In the United States. UBS Warburg lLC, a subsidiary of UBS AG, is a member of NYSE and SIPC. 
UBS Warburg is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish season prepares them for Big East Championships 
By BRIAN BURKE Sports Writer 
The Big East Championships have finally arrived. 
Beginning this Friday the Notre Dame men's and women's track and field teams will take ali of their prepara­tion put in at meets such as the Arizona S t a t e Invita-tion­al, the Mt. SAC Relays, and the Drake Helays to Piscataway, 
N.J.. and make a run for Big East titles. The overall outlook for the Irish appears very good. and the runners' familiarity with their conference competi­tion has given them them opti­mism going into the meet. 
The men·s sprints appear to be a particularly strong area for Notre Dame heading into the weekend. The 4 x 100­meter relay team of Marshaun West, Chris Cochran. Travis Davev, and Tom Gilbert holds the s~hool record and will defi­nitely be expected to rebound from last week's troubles at Drake, where they ran well. but struggled with baton exchanges. 
"We're not really worrind about the 4 x 100, we know we're fast," West said. "We'll be working on exchanges in practice and we'll get it right. We're going into the meet very confident. \Ve feel we can defi­nitely sweep the sprints, and me and Tom Gilbert can go one and two in the long jump. We're not going in looking at any timf's because a lot of us haven't run as f'ast as we know we ran. Especially in the 4 x 100 we're looking to peak in the Big East and make nation­als." 
"If Wfl go in and run our race. it's (Jurs to win," Davey said. "Miami has a good 4 x 100 team. but we feel if we run like we should, we'll win." 

Aside from the 4 x 100 and the lung jump, West will also enter the 200-meters (which he won last year). the 100-meters. and the 4 x 400-meter relay with Cochran, Davey. and 

T e r r y \Vray. 
"Person­ally I'm in the best shape I've ever been, and I'm the strongest I've ever 
Grow been," the 
A I I American West said. "I want to get a good early jump so I can concentrate of the other events." 
Along with West, Cochran will look to defend a Big East title in the 400 meters. 
While the sprinters expect a great deal of success, the dis­tance runners also see their performance as integral to the team's success. Loading tho corps of runners will be Ryan Shay in the 10,000 and 5,000 meters, and Luko Watson in the 3,000 meter steeplechase. 
"I think everyone's pretty much ready," Shay said. "All the distance guys know points have to come out of us if we're going to win." 
Shay enters the 10,000 meter race having qualified for the Olympic trials. ranked second in the country, and the clear favorite in the Big East. 
"I don't think there's any big names in particular going up against me," Shay said. "I expect some runners to push me but I'll be the one coming out on top. J\ lot of guys run­ning the 5,000 are doubling in other events. so not everyone in there is fresh. I know Georgetown will have someone in there that's fresh. but I feel I'm in good enough shape to possibly win both the 10,000 and the 5.000." 
Jle spriny menus . , are in bloom al Oor1n s. 
Dine in the true spirit of Notre Dame, while experiencing 
the budding flavors of the season. Springti~ at Sorin's ~ri~gs a ,, ·• renewal of our menu as we honor our commitment to bnngmg youl 'lhe finest foods available. Visit Sorin'sal The Morris Inn, ,/ ., ..,._ 
-,. ' ,rui,m,,_..,""""ciA --•-'i/__ 



~Morris11111. , 1 .sorinsnd.coni •Rtstrvatlons Rtc0mmmdtd · 6JI•Mio 
\ 
-
Along with Shay and Watson, woman at Notre Dame ever to 800-meter runners Phil Mishka clear six feet. and will be and Tim Kober will be looked among the very best jumpers at upon to the Big contribute East.
"If we go in and run our race, it's. .. I
as well. 
Both have ours to win. Miami has a good t h i n k qualified 4 X 100 team, but we feel if we outdoor 
provisional-is just a
run like we should, we'll win." 
1y for the g r e a t N C A A meet," champi­Travis Davey Engel­onships, h a r d t
4 X 100 relay member 
and Kober comes into the meet running well, having just qualified last week at Drake. Other NCAA qualifiers Marc Striowski (10,000 meters) and Antonio Arce (5,000 meters) look to be factors from this deep group. 
For the women. much of Notre Dame's fortunes. at least for the sprinters, lie on the shoulders of Liz Grow. Though just a sophomore, she is one of the top sprinters in the nation. Grow will run the 200-and 400-meters. as well as the 4 x 100-and 4 x 400-meter relays. 
'Tm feeling great. I took last s a i d . 
" I ' m 
coming 

off some great practices. Tameika Thom•pson from UConn, we've been neck and neck through the years and generally the trend has been shl~ · s taken indoor and I've come back and taken outdoor, so I guess it's on my turf now." 
While Engelhardt is out to help the women take the Big East title. she also realizes this is an opportunity for her to qualify for the NCAA champi­onships. 
"It's gone through my mind," Engelhardt said. "I sat down with my coach and pretty much decided it's gotta come. When I put the added pressure on I don't jump as well. I just hav,~ to go out there and have fun." 
The women distance runners took this past weekend off and look to come into Big East com­petition rested. Leading the way will be senior Allison Klemmer, Notre Dame's only female distance runner to earn a NCAA qualification. Along with Klemmer. Patty Hice is another strong rumrnr in thn 1,500. 
Other women who should contribute include freshman Jamie Volkmer and sophomore Dore l)(~Bartolo. Volkmer holds the Notre Dame records in the pole vault and triple jump. DeBartolo, meanwhile has the school record in the hammer throw. and also has enjoyed success in the shot put this year. 



Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Smith's frustrations lead Portland to 85-77 victory 

kept the Minnesota for tangling with Anthony Peeler. 
Associated Press 
Timberwolves from getting even. and the Portland Trail Blazers MINNEAPOLIS Smith hit a key 3-pointer min­went on to eliminate the Wolves Steve Smith got mad, then he utes after drawing a technical from the NBA playoffs with an 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME JUNIORS & SENIORS 
RESIDENT ASSISTANTS NEEDED: 
Holv Cross College is looking for afew good men to serve in our residence life program. 
Mature men are needed in a coed environment of over 200 freshmen and sophomore resident students. 
Live across the street from Notre Dame while being an RA. 
The successful RA candidate will receive room and board. 
Holy Cross College is a two-year, liberal arts college with a transfer-intent curriculum and a population of approximately 500 students. 
If interested, please contact: 
Mr. Chris Ruhe Director of Residence Life Holy Cross College P.O. Box 308 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-8409 cruhe@hcc-nd.edu 
DOC BROWN 222 St. Louis o, 
the album everyone is talking about 


"Worth more than the $5" -Kerry Cavanaugh, forgotten fan 

y,c.c-1 
Come see Doc Brown at Alumni-Senior Club tonight ifyou're 21, or at Madison Oyster Bar Saturday afternoon with Umphrey's McGee and Lotus -all ages welcome. Album available at 260 Alumni Hall, 1837 Campus View, 18067 B College Park:, 510 Castle Point, and IO I Alumni Hall, or call 634-1001. 


HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Right for you. Right from the start. 
C 2000 Holy Cross College 
85-77 victory Tuesday night. 
The Blazers won the best-of­five series 3-1 and advanced to face the Utah-Seattle winner. The Jazz lead that series 2-1 with Game 4 Wednesday night in Seattle. 
Minnesota failed to reach the second round for the fourth straight season. 
Smith and Peeler confronted each other with 5:07 left and the Wolves dinging to a 73-72 lead. Smith fell down after taking a long jumper, and Peeler walked over him. The two jawed at each other and drew double-technical fouls. 
A minute later, Smith was called for a foul on Peeler, and Smith stared him down again. 
The Blazers trailed 75-74 before Smith's 3-pointer with 
3:45 left, and the Wolves never regained the lead. 
Smith finished with 14 points, one fewer than Rasheed Wallace and Arvydas Sabonis. 
Kevin Garnett nearly recorded his third triple-double of the 
Scott Little 
The end is near. The last day of classes either means sleep time. drunk time or study like crazy time. 
A little advice I have for you about finals: 
11 Think of Finals as Grand Finales. They are something to look forward to. They are big and long. And sometimes they go bang. 
2} Be nice to people. It is so easy ----lte:::.:.a~n~1.....! --------===---' 
series for Minnesota, finishing with 1 7 points, 10 rebounds and nine assists. 
After Brian Grant's basket gave Portland a 79-75 lead, Terrell Brandon's layup made it 79-77 with just under a minute left. 
Wallace banked in a jumper from the top of the circle with 32 seconds left, barely beating the buzzer and giving Portland a four-point lead. His two free throws 12 seconds later iced it. 
Greg Anthony capped the scor­ing with a pair of free throws that provided the final margin. It was the first time in eight games between the teams this season that the final margin was bigger than seven points. 
The Timberwolves, who blew a 13-point lead, again got inspired play from their reserves. This time, Bobby Jackson. who didn't play at all in Game 3, scored 11 points, and the Wolves outscored the Blazers by 13 points when he was in the game. 
to get stressed out during finals 
and take it out on other people. 
Don't do that. Take it out on your 
pets when you get home. But not 
by being mean. Release your 
stress with hugs. 
31 And remember it's only col­
lege 

Try and always be a happy 
camper and have a happy week, a 
happy summer, and a Happy Chef1 
Go baseball! Go Lacrosse!Go 
Ann Madagen and the fencing 
Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
NBA PLAYOFFS 

Kidd, Suns came back to knock Spurs from the playoffs 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
Jason Kidd came back, Tim Duncan didn't and the Phoenix Suns knocked the defending NBA champion San Antonio Spurs out of the NBA playoffs. 
Penny Hardaway and Rodney Rogers, winner of the NBA's Sixth Man Award, scored 23 points apiece as the Suns won the best-of-five series 3-1 with an 89-78 victory Tuesday night. 
Rogers, who also had 10 rebounds, scored eight points and Hardaway seven in the fourth quarter as Phoenix fought off one last San Antonio challenge to advance past the first round for the first time in five years. 
The Suns play the winner of 
the Los Angeles Lakers­
Sacramento series in the 
Western Conference semifinals. 
The Spurs became the first 
defending champion to be elim­
inated in the first round since 
the Philadelphia 76ers lost to 
New Jersey 3-2 in 1984. The 

1998 champion Chicago Bulls failed to make the playoffs'last season after Michael Jordan's retirement. 
David Robinson tried to carry the load with 21 points and 16 rebounds, but he didn't have enough help. Mario Elie was the only other San Antonio player in double figures with 12. 
The Suns' Cliff Robinson missed 10 of his first 12 shots, but made two crucial outside jumpers in the fourth quarter to finish with 10 points. 
Kidd, out since March 22 with a broken left ankle, looked different with his newly blond curly hair. but he played as well as ever. He started and made his made his first three shots, the last one a 3-pointer, and finished with nine points and 10 assists in 31 minutes. 
Duncan, a free agent at the 
end of the season, might have 
played his last game for San 
Antonio. He didn't play at all in 
the series because of a slight 
ligament tear in his left knee. 
Duncan practiced Monday, but 
BRUNO'S· 



i 
I 
I 
At the Crossroads of Business and Education. 

j ! 
I J 
I/ SCORE! Learning Inc., the fastest growing unit of the Washington Post Company, is looking for motivated, business­minded professionals with strong people skills to manage educational Centers. We currently operate over 100 educa­tional Centers across the country, featuring advanced com­puter education technology. Children attend weekly sessions to build fundamental academic skills in an environment that they love. We are currently seeking Directors who will be trained ta manage one or more SCORE! centers. 
Director positions available in Chicago Area, California, and nationwide. Send letter of intent and resume to: 
SCORE! Recruiting P.O. Box 1096 Waltham, MA 02454-1096 score@hiresystems.com 


781-663-2433 
ligament in his right knee with
decided Tuesday the leg was players, and only one power 
forward, after Malik Rose left 4:07 left in the first half and
too sore. 

The Spurs were down to 10 with a torn medial collateral the Suns leading 31-28. 




Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Rush, Moiso look past UCLA to NBA draft for finances 
Associated Press  sons with the Bruins to enter the NBA draft.  empty Pauley Pavilion, answered questions from a  put you in. certain players are suffering while the NCAA is  cially, also faces a $6,125 bill for taking money from an AAU  
LOS ANGELES JaHon Hush almost certainly will be moving from his UCLA dorm room to far fancier digs in the m~a.r future. Hush and and fellow sopho­morn Jerome Moiso will pass up their final two college sea- With tlrnm goes two-fifths of the projected starting lineup for the next two seasons, lcav­ing UCLA. which seemed to have its program on an upswing, instead facing a rebuilding job. Moiso and Hush. seated at a table at midcourt in mostly  dozen or so reporters Tuesday. one day after they announced they were leaving school. R u s h  "The financial situation they put you in, certain players are suffering while the NCM is making billions offthem. If players are not getting the financial attention at school,  making bil­lions off them." he said. "If players are not getting the finan­cial atten­tion at  coach when he was in high school in Kansas Citv. Mo. That also cost R·ush a 24­game suspension. although he returned late in the season to help UCLA earn an NCAA tour­nament berth, then beat Ball State and Maryland before finally losing to Iowa State.  

O'Neill Brothers' Big Break Contest Winners!!! 
/ 
/ 

Original Song Winner: Instrumentalist Winner: Emmeline Schoen / Colleen Kelly 
I 

Honorable Mention: Runner-up: Danielle Skorich Mark Scozzafave 


Look for The O'Neill Brothers' new CD, 
A Notre Dame Experience 
in the bookstore this fall! 
www.shamrocknroll.com 
believes the 
Whylug your stuff across campus?
' 
,=:;;;2.~ 
Call 277-5555 for free pick up at your roo111 -011 or off-ca111pus. ' Boxes Plus •tl1e lowerprice<..i sJzipper• 5622 Grape Road -Wilsl1ire Plaza 
Bring your belo11gings and thls ad to Boxes Plus and receive a 10% ruscount. 

Congratulations 
to the 
trend of bas­ketball play­ers leaving school to enter the1draft may!escalate ,unless the N C A A 

changes its rules to give ath­and don't have any money to letes more financial assis­do anything." tance. Rush, who has a 2-year-old 
"The financial situation they son he wants to support finan­

they are going to jump to 
., 

earn money. 
JaRon Rush fonner UCLA player 
school. 
they  are  
going  to  
jump  to  
e  a  r  n  

money. 
"You just sit around bored all day long 

His trouble with the NCAA and the fine -which he said he still intends to pay and which will go to charity ­obviously had something to do with Rush's decision to leave school. 
"External factors made it," he said of the decision. "There was so much pressure on me all season long. I just want a release from that, just to start over and do things the way I want them done." 
Moiso, asked if it had been his plan to play a couple of years in college and opt for the draft, said, "It was. It's a great chance for me now to go out." 
A native of Guadeloupe, \Vest Indies who spent 1994­97 at the National Institute of Sport in Paris, Moiso led the Bruins with 7 .6 rebounds a 
game this season.  The 6-foot­ 
10 forward/center  was second  
in scoring at 13.0.  

Hush, a 6-7 forward who played in the first three. games of the season before being sus­pended. averaged 12.1 points and 5.7 rebounds in his nine games. 
He mentioned his son. Shea. several times. 
-

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
OLYMPIC TRACK AND FIELD 
Olympic committee questions marathoner's participation 
Olympic marathon trials at Khannouchi would not discuss now. I have a new home here. I After leaving Morocco seven
Associated Press 
Pittsburgh. his intentions Tuesday at a City want to give something back. I years ago and arriving in the But he has an ankle injury and Hall ceremony in Houston, still love my country but I have United States, Khannouchi set­
Khalid Khannouchi, the 
his trainer has told him to not where he was been treated tled in New York. In 1996, he
marathon world record-holder. 
race for the next six weeks. made an hon-so well and married Sandra Inoa, a runnerwas sworn in as a U.S. citizen 
Khannouchi will discuss his orary citizen of .. / have a new home here. given so much he had met during a race in
Tuesday, but it was uncertain 
plans Wednesday in New York. the city. / want to give something support here Hartford, Conn.
whether he could compete for 
lie could decide to run at "This is a that I want to Khannouchi qualified for citi­
the United States at the back. I still love my
Pittsburgh or wait until July and great day to run for zenship under a law thatOlympics if he made the team. 
compete in the 10,000 meters in finally happen," country but I have been America." enables spouses of U.S. citizensBlocking the way could be the the U.S. Olympic track and field he said. "It's treated so well and given Khannouchi working abroad for an American
International Olympic 
Committee and the Moroccan trials at Sacramento, Calif. something we've 80 much support here acknowledged company to achieve citizenship \ i "Khalid has had injuries that been working on the strain of all regardless of the three-year res­
\ I Olympic Committee. 
I I 
\ I could curtail his career," said for ov<Jr two that I want to run the develop-idency requirement. Last month, 
\) IOC rules state that an athlete 
'i Gerard Hartmann, ,vho has years. I owe a for America." ments. his wife acc1~ptcd a job overseas
must wait three years to com­
I been treating Khannouchi in great responsi-.. I want to with a U.S. firm.
pete for his new country. That Ireland. "There's no way he bility to the peo-get with my Khannouchi participated in anperiod can be reduced or elimi­
should run the marathon trials, pie who made Khalid Khannouchi trainer and oath ceremony Tuesday after
nated only if three parties agree:
i'. I although as Sandra this happen for marathon world record holder talk things completing a citizenship inter­
I the previous national Olympic 
[Khannouchi's wife] says, he me and gave me over," he said. view with Immigration and
committee. track's international could run 2:12 in his sleep." this chance. "I fee] good, Naturalization Services andruling body and the lOC. 
A time of 2 hours, 12 minutes, Now I have the ball and it is my but you want to make the right passing a test on U.S. history. He
The general secretary of the 
might be good enough to earn responsibility to prove that all of decision. You don't want to do first applied for permanent resi­Moroccan federation, Abdellatif 
Khannouchi a place on the this was worth it. something that might harm your dency more than three years
el Jazouli, suggested Morocco 
three-man U.S. team. "I have a lot of friends here career." ago.
would not approve. 
'I 
"We have not been contacted," \ I he told The Associated Press. 
I ( 
\ I 
'\! "Nobody has asked us anything.
t 
If there is an official request, we 
will put it to our federal counciln to decide. 
"For us, the rules must be applied. It's not up to the IMF. It's up to the national federa­tion." 
Giorgio Reineri, a spokesman for the ruling IAAF, said the three-year rule does not apply. Ile said an athlete must be a cit­izen of the new country to com­pete fpr that country, unless he or she has competed for the for­mer country in the past three years. 
The last time the 28-year-old Khannouchi ran for Morocco was at the 1993 World University Games at Buffalo, N.Y. 
Khannouchi. who had been hoping to obtain his U.S. citizen­ship since arriving in the United States in 1993, set his sights on running in Sunday's U.S. 
·fl...,t-,~~e\1 ~tth'I 
~t~a-tt,e.t~p~' 
Zoomcultureacom 
,, hiriv-,1 f,eld rep, te ~4pture 

i,tu«lev-,t ltfe ev-,vlciee., ,ev-, Nrnpull
I I I 
er 41'\Ywhe-re life t4~e, Yeu,

l \ 
apply at: 



www.zoornculture.com/internship 

Rustic elegance This is not an oxymoron. Wildflower has it all! Log & stone homes. Cathedral ceilings, stone fireplaces, decks overlooking the St. Joe River and Orchard Hills Golf Course. Starting under $200,000. 1 1/2 hours from the loop. A great location just 20 minutes from N.D. campus. 
616.695.6043 
Northern Lights, Inc. Broker. 
Contact: 
WILDFLOWER DEVELOPMENT 3035 NILES-BUCHANAN ROAD BUCHANAN, Ml 49107 

WILDFLOWER 
~•4• 

* * * * * * * * *
B.ADIN HALL CONGRATULATES THEIR CLASS OF 2000. 
CHERYL ASCI LOUBEL CRUZ JUDY DEFRIEZE JALAIMA GRAHAM KRISTA GUZIEC CHRIS HAHN JENNY HEFT ERIN KEPPEL LAURA MARTINEZ LIZZ MATTINGLY VVENDY PASILLAS MARIA PEREZ CLAUDIA QUINONEZ CHRISTINA ROMERO ERIN STAUFFER 
BADIN LOVES YOU AND IS PROUD OF YOU! THANKS FOR ALL YOU DO! 
* * * * * * * * * 
Attention Seniors! 
Auditionsfor readers at the 
Graduation Mass and Senior's Last Visit to the Grotto 
will take place on Thursday, May 4th at 4:00 p.m. in the BtlSilica ofthe Sacred Heart. 
Ifyou have any questions please e-mail Steve Camilleri at Camilleri. 4@nd.edu 

Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Fox 
continued from page 28 
mentality that they want to be national champs. \Ne want to make the sacrifice -I to 1 win every game." 
The hamstring injury that kept Givens out of 

LIZ LANGfThe Observer 

Wide receiver David Givens (No. 6) has high expectations for this fall's Fighting Irish football team. The junior-to-he's top goal is to play in the national championship game . 
the Blur-Gold ganw -triggered by running so many rout<~s that ht! overused the tendon -stands as a testament to tlrn team's dedi­cation. 
"I wanted to play in the spring 
"If we play to our games, we will get ability and we win respect that we've 
been lacking for 
lose games. we will 
the last I fow]get respect that years," Givens said. we've been lacking "We look forward 
to playing all those
for the last !few/ 
., teams. We've got 
years. the talent on our team [to win}. The other teams that
David Givens 

game so bad and I we play don't have
wide receiver

just couldn't," bcttfw athletes 
Giv,ms said. "I didn't ~'ant to hurt myself worse. 
The team also decided to form a 15-person leadership council, of which Givm1s is a member, to makP sure evcryon,~ stays focused on bringing a 12th national title back to South Bend. Speaking for the entire t1\am, he said: "\'\'e agreed to do whatever it takes to win." 
When thP Irish do take thP field in the fall, thr.y face what has to be tlrn touglrnst schedule in the country. Instead of sprin­kling a Rice or a Ball State in the mix. Notre Dame opens with Texas A&M and tlwn follows up with Nebraska, coming oIT last season's dismantling of Tennessee in the Fiesta Bowl and Purdue, foaturing IIeisman candidate quarterback Drew Brees. 
Next, Notrn Dame goes on the road to Michigan State, which is fast becoming a national power, and then comes home again to play Stanford, the defending Pac-10 champions. All this before they even hit midterms and fall break. 

While it's the most demanding schedule you're going to find anywhere, the players look at it as an opportunity and a chal­lenge to be met. 
"If we play to our ability and 
we \.Vin those 
than we have." 
When I asked David what the team's goals for the upcoming season were. the list he gave me didn't have things like improve third-down defense or cut down on turnovers, only: "To play in the national championship gamP." 
All those other things are nec­essary for success, but no one wearing the blue and gold wants to settle for individual pieces of the puzzle. They want to com­plete the entire picture. 
Looking at those signatures on the cover of my notebook, now with a wide receiver added to the mix. Iwonder if I'm looking at the names of 15 national champions-to-be. 
Three months and 30 days, huh? For once, I don't think summer can move fast enough. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


•
aste 
10 

Apartments 
Cleveland and Iron}Yood Roads/18011 Cleveland Road/South Bend, Indiana 46637/ (219)272-8110 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for 
•ift!'~.... /Ct:~';

·-~~.:"'---=-~·:·..~~::~~-.r.7-~·::~--.:~.,·:::;.;:.;,~ •:~-r: ~ ,_ . 
Next Sem.ester 
·. ·1··'-'=\· ·t"\ . . . ' . 

, d ..:.. . .. 
. •, . 
-*Within minutes of campus*
.. ;'.•. 

• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments~ some with lofts 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 



I 
'· 
I ' ! \ 
f \' 
I I I I I 
I . I 
I I\ ' 

lf I : ' 
.~ 
-~ 
'J 
I 
!ii !~ ' 
j :~ 
,:! 
I, 
Ii '\ Iit 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
Five student-athletes receive Byron V. Kanaley Awards 
Special to The Observer 
Swimming standouts Elizabeth Barger and Ray Fitzpatrick, baseball star Jeff Perconte, women's soccer All­American Jenny Streiffer and rowing h e a d I i n e r Kanaley Katrina Ten Award 
Eyck have been named Winners 
recipients of Elizabeth Bargerthe presti­gious Byron Swimming 
V. Kan aley Ray Fitzpatrick Awards at 
Swimming

Notre Dame for the 1999-Jeff Perconte 
2000 school Baseball year.The Byron Jenny Streiffer 
V. Kanaley Soccer Awards are 
the most Katrina Ten Eyck prestigious Rowing honors pre­sented to senior stu­dent-athletes at the University. Since 1927, they have been awarded annually to mono­gram athletes who have been most exemplary as both stu­dents and leaders. Selected by the Notre Dame Faculty Board on Athletics, the awards are named in honor of Byron V. Kanaley, a 1904 graduate who played baseball for the Irish. Barger won two Big East championships and was a four­time all-conference selection in 2000 as the Irish won their fourth consecutive Big East women's swimming title. An 11-time Big East champion during her illustrious career, Barger also holds two Notre Dame and two Big East records, while earning honor­able mention All-America hon­ors in 1999. l A five-time Dean's List mem­ber, Barger has a 3.458 grade­point average in American 
studies. She was a 1999 College Swimming Coaches Association (CSCAA) All­Academic winner. A two-time team captain, she earned sec­ond-team GTE-CoSIDA Fall/Winter At-Large honors this season. 
Fitzpatrick became the first Notre Dame men's swimmer to earn Academic All-America honors as he was named third­team GTE Men's Fall/Winter At-Large in 2000. 
A team co-captain, Fitzpatrick won the 200 freestyle at the 2000 Big East Championships, while leading Notre Dame to its second run­ner-up finish. A nine-time all­Big East selection, Fitzpatrick has a 3.685 GPA while major­ing in math. He is a seven-time Dean's List honoree and holds seven Notre Dame swimming records. Fitzpatrick plans to enter medical school in the fall. 
Perconte, a solid offensive and defensive player for the Irish, was hitting .429 until a shoulder injury caused him to miss 11 games during the sea­son. A tri-captain and starting second baseman, he played 34 error-free games to open the season. A six-time Dean's List student, he carries a 3.73 GPA as a double major in economics and government. Perconte serves as a resident assistant at Knott Hall. He will attend Notre Dame's law school in the fall. 
Streiff'er earned All-America honors from the National Soccer Coaches Association of America in 1996 and 1999 when she led the Irish to the NCAA championship game. As a sophomore and a junior, Streiffer earned GTE/CoSIDA first-team Academic All­America accolades. She is one of only two players in Division I soccer history to score 70 goals and have 70 assists and is 10th in NCAA history and first in 

:D 

is 
!I!-i 
'U·.::
,.:, 
N 
-6 
·c 
:::, 
:E 
C 
=c 
Q) 
en 
fa 
"E 
$ 
f/) 
E 
< 
0 
~ 
E 
15 
i 
~ 
2. 
i 
i 
~ 
s; 
CD
:::, 
i 
OJ 
C 
i C. 
'"O pJ 
cc 
C 
CD 
I 

J Europe •Africa •Asia •South America I 
C: 
Q) 
r. 5f More Than 100 Departure Cities! I31:: 
8. C Eurailpasses •Bus Passes •Study Abroad I
8 
31:: 
I»

~ C.
z 
a 

·c:Cl) OJ 
8!. student s» 0 
CD 

C 0 
:8 s» ::, ::, 
IC:• un1~rse 

0 
~ 

C: IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT. >
.g s. 
C < 
0 a­
..J 
-:::r 

~ 
I» ::,
-.;::. 
a,

C (,/)
n, g
en 
www.StudentUniverse.com ::, 

n, ca 
E C,
:::J 9?. ti) 2: 
Q)
.... 
:J: < 0::, 
ti) (0
0 
800-272-9676

C 
Q) 
6 
::,::, 

(0

co 
Notre Dame's all-time listings of the Year. She was the 1997 with 211 career points. recipient of the Knute-Rockne 
Streiffer has a 3.456 GPA in Scholar-Athlete Award and is a pre-professional studies and member of the Pre-Veterinary anthropology. She was the Club. Streiffer plans to attend 2000 Big East Scholar-Athlete veterinary school after gradua­

Notre Dame Naval ROTC 
Academic Year 1999-2000 Navy/Marine Corps Awards Ceremony and Change of Command 
MAY 3, 2000 

4:30 PM at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Awards presented to outstanding Notre Dame 
Midshipmen by over 30 international, national, and local organizations. Those organizations include 
National Defense Industrial Association, Society of American Military Engineers, American Society of Naval Engineers, The American Legion11 Veterans of Foreign Wars, National Sojourners, Marine Corps Association, and many more... Leadership by the Class of "00 is formally passed to the Class of 'O 1 . Comments by Professor of Naval Science Capt. Patrick 
J. Casey. Reception follows formal ceremony. 
For additional information: Phone: (219) 631-7274 Email: carmony. l@nd.edu 
tion. 

Ten Eyck is the rowing team's most valuable athlete after leading the Irish in 2000 in only their second season of varsity rowing com petition. 
~ 
!, 
t 
, 

• • " • • • • • • I 
• • , , I • • ~ • . I ' ~ 
Irish pitching again in the third, ly in the fourth. though. as left scoring two runs on three hits. fielder Robert Dainton's bases­Ttrn Irish looked to rally in the loaded single drove in two, mak­continued from page 28 bottom of the third as consecu­ing the Wildcat lead 7-2. Dainton 
tive two out singles by Steve went 4-5 in the game with three the first inning on singles by Stanley, Alec Porzel. and Jeff HBls and a pair of runs. each of their first four batters Felker plated two runs to pull Notre Dame pulled within and a Pat Thompson sacrifice the team within three. three again in the fifth as Jeff 
11v. The top of the order beat up Northwestern answered uuick-Perconte reached base on an 
Baseball 
Writing the Fulbright Essay: From Introductions to Final Edits 
Sponsored by: 

The Notre Dame Writing Center 
This workshop is for people who are applying for a Fulbright Scholarship and would like help writing a competitive essay. Some of the specifics covered in the workshop will include: 
• 
Before You Write 

• 
Getting Started: Brainstorming Exercises 

• 
Outlining the Essay 

• 
Developing Paragraphs 

• 
Editing and Revising 



Participants will analyze winning essays and begin developing a plan for their own Fulbright essay. 
Where: 232 DeBartolo 
When: Wednesday, 6-8 p.m., May 3 
For more information about this al)-d future writing center workshops, contact John Duffy, Writing Center Director, at 631-7265 or at Duffy.27@nd.edu. 
~9Ri.N(i ~Et.\E~TER 
Sunday ~TRE~~ RELi.EVER~ May 7, 2000 9pm -12am Lafortune Ballroom 


error and sin­ "It was just one ofthose  Schara. who  
gles by Stanley and Porzel loaded the bases  nights that things didn't go our way. It's pretty  normally starts weekend con­ference games  
for Jeff Felker.  disappointing.,,  for North-west­ 
Felker hit a soft  ern.  made  a  
ground ball on  rare midweek,  
the infield that  Paul Mainieri  non-conference  
aooeared to be  Irish head coach  start  against  
an inning­ the Irish. and  
ending  shut  Notre  

double play, but Felker Dame batters down for most of beat the throw to first, the game. scoring Porzel and a hus­"Schara is one of their week­tling Stanley from second. end starters and one of their top 
Any hopes of another late pitchers," Mainieri said after the game Irish rally were game. "We pitched one of our dashed in the eighth midweek starters, and he didn't inning. though, as pitch as well." Northwestern scored the The Irish will look to turn it game's final two runs. around Wednesday as they host putting a comeback out of a doubleheader against Oakland reach. at 4:05. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
--e-­
saint MarY-'S College 
O

NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
END OF THE 
YEAR MASS! 
Sunday, MaU 7, 2000 'l:00 PM 
Church of Our Lady of Loretto 
l 

There will be NO masses in the residence halls May 7th. 
SUMMER WORK 
Vector Marketing Corporation is again filling summer positions throughout the U.S. 
$13.55 base-appt. 
Great resume experience Customer service and sales Scholarships available Conditions apply Call office nearest to summer location 
South Bend (219) 282-2357  Muncie (765) 289-7345  
Goshen {219) 875-8843  N. Indianapolis (317) 575-9600  
Fort Wayne (219) 471-6113  SW Indianapolis (317) 248-1300  
Merrillville (219) 769-2352  Bloomington (812) 4 77-927 4  
Kalamazoo (616) 349-8146  Terre Haute (812) 298-8555  
Kokomo (765) 453-1664  Evansville (812) 4 77-927 4  
Lat ayette (765) 420-0507  Jeffersonville (812) 284-5310  

www.workforstudents.com/BT 
Wednesday, May 3, 2000  The Observer . SPORTS  page 25  

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Notre Dame looks at 2000 schedule with enthusiasm 


Women's
Soccer 
Aug. 27 DETROIT 
Sept. 1 TULSA Sept. 3 PROVIDENCE* Sept. 8 SANTA CLARA Sept. 1o~s 
Sept. 16 Sept. 1 at 
Sept. 22 at West Virginia* Sept. 24 PITTSBURGH* Sept. 29 SETON HALL*


~~mule 
Oct. 8 at Villanova* Oct. 13 BOSTON COLLEGE* Oct. 15 at Syracuse* 

' 
Oct. 18 at Yale

I I I 
Oct. 21 at Connecticut*

: l 
I' I 
I 
I 
• denotes conference games 
CHAM PION SH I P 

I 
'' ' { 
.' 
' 
I.. 

i ' 
i , 
I 
I 

Thursday at 
East Championship at Alumni Field highlight the 2000 Notre Dame women's soccer sclwd­ule, head coach Handy Waldrum announced Tuesday. 
The Irish will begin the 2000 season with their earliest sea­son opener ever when Detroit visits Alumni Field on Sun., Aug. 27, for a 1:00 p.m. game. 
"\,Ye are really excited about the high level of teams on our 2000 schedule," said 1999 Big East coach of the year Handy Waldrum. "We will be playing an o th c r d iffic u I t sch c d u I e against a number of NCAA championship or ranked teams. Our home schedule should be really exciting for our fans with teams like Connecticut. Santa Clara and 
Stanford coming to  Alumni  
Field, in addition to  the Big  
East Championship."  

The nine-game Big East schedule features six games against Mid-Atlantic division opponents and three cross­divisional games against Northeast opponents will com­prise the conference schedule. The Irish will play host to Pittsburgh, Seton Hall, Hutgers and Boston College and travE)l to West Virginia, Georgetown, Villanova, Syracuse and Connecticut. Five-time defend­ing champion Notre Dame will be the host of the Big East Championship on Fri., Nov. 3, and Sun., Nov. 5. The Irish first played host to the event in 1996. 
Notre Dame's adidas/KeyBank Classic will feature Santa Clara and Stanford -two teams the Irish defeated on their way to the 1999 NCAA championship game -in addition to Big East rival Connecticut. 

Special to The Observer 
Home games with Santa Clara and Stanford, a road trip to Portland and the Big 


Pragressi11e/Aggr1ssi11e Acoustic Buitar 
8:00 P.M. (Tomorrow) Reckers 
f--iappy 
21st 
Biv+hday 
LiV\"1}' ! 
\;\le love }_'DIA, Mon'\ C\V\d Dad 



Take home a memory of Senior Mass at the Grotto 

Signed, limited edition print, ready to frame, $75.00 (Shipping extra) Available at Lafortune, Warren Golf Shop. For in town delivery, call 277-1968 or 634-4085 on campus. 

FREE ADMISSION 
SPONSORED BY GUITAR PLAYERS ASSOCIATION 

l • ­
' 


-
Wednesday, May 3, 2000 page 27 
The Observer . TODAY 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

NOTRE DAME BASEBALL 
SAT. MAY 6 vs. Prrr (DH)12PM 
First 200 fans get a free ND Baseball T-Shirtt SUN. MAY 7 VS. PITI 12PM

Dair11 

Queen Notr,e Dame Baseball and Lane's Dairy Queen present... 
Near ND-St. Rd 23 "Sundaes on Sunday" FREE DQ sundaes for the first 100 fans! 
Plus a free 
13 and ll1der baseball clinicl Call 631-8393 for n10re info 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
LET'S SEE••• SHOULD I GET THE THE HIGH-FAT MILi<:, HIGH­oR THE LOW-FAT?••• FAT. \ .--t--L' ' 
T~E lAS.T 
"Tl'"'-~ 1: Ti~£ ·n(ERE's NOTE~ fOYt. 501-\t'Tl\lNG, 
cL~ss... Fvt-1~~iwn.1.w 
WROWG \iJ\'t" '10Vlt. l. O{,\(. 
0tstbyllM!Jfsaj 
SHOULD I &ET PressSiooa•• THE EXTRA-THlCK THE SAcoN, OR THE EXTRA­REGULAR?... TH,ICI<. 
"' 

IN'-50t\ET1Utl6 
HE L~sr -nM~<f\ 
~L\ES T~A"t 
Elf: It.I~'!:. OW'C. 
TOM KEELEY 
T\tE L~T 'Tl :t. Ffl-L\. Ji.~1.£ 

SHOULD I C,ET THE LOW­CAL FRoZEN PIZZA, oR THE FOUR-CHEESE, ALL-MEAT, DAO, YoU HUNGRY-HAVE To DUDE EOITlON?... 
'\ 
BILL AMEND 

YOU'RE A LOT  YOU'RE  
MoRE FUN To  ONLY  
SHoP WITH THAN  SUYINC:,  
YOUR MOTHER.  THREE?  
I  I  

JEFF BEAM
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
FOR THc PA'ol 
fov~ YEARS, l"\J& wo~EP Too 

MOO\ 'I p~~il ,Pfoo HAP..D., AND ?tEVf Too LITTLE. MAN, IF I touL.I) 1)0 ,,.. /\\..l.. O\IEI<. ~C,P..I~, • • 
Thank you. 
beam.1@nd.edu 


HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 

DAY: Sugar Ray Robinson, GregGumbel, Doug Henning, Mary Hop-kin, Pete See~er, Christopher Cross 
Happy Birthday: Ask for help if you need it this year. You always want to be everything and do every· thing for everyone. Sit back and let others do for you. You can achieve 
your dreams if you allow others to pick up the slack. You will learn plenty from the experiences you have this year. Your numbers: 7, 15, 26, 30, 33, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 

Aggressive behavior will get you in trouble. You will have to go easy on those you work with. Your mate will be upset if you try to impose or talk him or her into doing things your way. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take your time. You will be prone to minor accidents if you are careless. You can make changes at home if you do the work yourself and get your family to pitch in and help. 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't get involved in fast-cash schemes. You should take a close look at your personal papers. You may have to make changes or update your will. 
000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
You'll be emotional about your pro­fessional position and happenings around you at work. Reconsider your direction and make sure others are not influencing your choices. 
0000 
LEO (July 2.3-Aug. 22): Travel for business or pleasure will be to your benefit. You will come into contact with interesting people. Lasting busi­ness or emotional partnerships can 
Birthday Baby: You'll be a quick-change artist through?ut life, moving from one thing to another. You're eager to fearn all you can m order to reach the security that will make you happy. . 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadv1ce.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
Cl 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 

be formed. Let your creative ideas be known. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): Don't become involved in get-rich-quick schemes. Your money should be put into stable long-term investments. 
Problems with older female mem­hers of your family will be upsetting. 
00000 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your emotional partner will upset you today. Try to be understanding and don't let his or her criticism or negativity ruin your plans. Talk to a loyal and trusting friend about your concerns. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should work at mastering your skills. You will be in a high creative cycle and should concentrate on doing the things you enjoy the most. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): Opportunities for romance will 
unfold through friends, relatives or 
neighbors. Pleasure trips will prove 
to be exciting. Use your ingenuity to 
capture the nearts of potential mates. 
000 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Criticism will set you off. You are having a hard time emotionally and don't need someone nagging at you. Don't let your job suffer because of your personal life. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Family and friends will be there for you. Be aware that not everyone is able to keep a secret You may need to hold back regarding your future intentions for the time being. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Don't let others take you for granted. 
Do your own work Romantic oppor­
tunities will develop through your 
peers or the connections you make at 
work. 0000 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 1 It's in a jamb 5 Schoolmarmish 9 Outback Bowl city 14 To boot 15 NBC host 16 N.B.A. star called "The Shack" 17 Stout ingredient 18 Regarding 19 Hardly cutting­edge 20 Computer business? 22 Bit of color 23 Guitarist Paul 24 Sipping specialist 25 Rifle attachment 29 Show place 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE -:-+-:-+::,+,S,,,..+,.H.-1 
..,,..+--+----+--+-~ 
--+---4 
-e-+---+--t--+-~ ...,,,.+.,,,,+,,.+-,-l 
-,,,+...+"'4--...i 
32 NATO members 34 Nature of 
cyberspace? 39 Wash out 40 Center 
42 Suffix with buck 
43 Combining on the Internet? 45 Risk 47 Synthetic fiber 49 Tetra-plus one 
50 Say 
54 Bolivian bear 
56 Chili rating unit? 
57 What makes people write LOL? 
63 Christina Applegate sitcom 
64 Litter's littlest 
65 Name that rings a bell? 66 Writer Chekhov 67 Manger visitors 68 Sitar music 
69 Doesn't 
possess 70 Gulf of _, off the coast of Yemen 71 Feel sure about 
DOWN 
1 Woman of rank 2 Haakon's royal 
successor 3 2-Down's capital 4 Univ. marchers 5 Part of a service 6 Put up a fight 7 Division word 8 Phobos, to Mars 9 Mexicali 
munchie 1 O Opposition 
Puzzle by Richard SIivestri

11 Had in mind 31 Binet data 51 "Maria_" (old
12 Satchel in tune)

Cooperstown 33 Brat's look 52 Brig's pair 
13 Birch relative 35 Take it easy 53 Gasoline may
21 Sheltered, at 36 Oum home 

sea make it go37 Reason for a 
55 Protest of a sort24 Kind of serum 
suit 57 Witty Bambeck 25 Cracker's target 38 Skywalker's 
26 Symbol of  mentor  
happiness  41 Roadside stop  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
27 Ye follower 28 Place for a shore dinner  44 Piece of clothing 46 Each  are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the  
30 Alternative to a  48 Lizard's locale?  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
fence  50 Indian chief  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

58 Campus area 59 Picnic spot 60 Russian 
Everyman 61 Canceled, to 
NASA 
62 Nibble away 




Running for the title 
Notre Dame's track and field team looks back on the season as preparation for this weekend's Big East Championships. 
page 18 
O
THE 

page 28 BSERVER Wednesday, May 3, 2000 
HOCKEY 

Poulin sticks with improving Irish program 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Irish hockey coach Dave Poulin's 13-year-old daughter Lindsay was flipping through the pages of her April 24 
Sports Illustrated when a few small sentences on page 65 caught her by surprise. 

SI writer 
Poulin 
Pierre McGuire predicted that if the Boston Bruins !ired their head coach, Poulin would be the next man behind the bench 111 
Beantown. 

Lindsay, excited about start­ing high school next fall with her twin sister Taylor, did not want to move to Boston. 
"Dad, we aren't going to Boston are we?" she asked. "No, Linds," Poulin replied. "Don't worry about it." 
If the Notre Dame student cheering section, fondly referred to as the Goon Squad, had been in the Poulin house­hold to hear his reply, it would have cheered more loudly than it does for an Irish goal. 
Just as Lindsay didn't want to leave her friends, Poulin wasn't excited about uprooting his family for a career that only lasts an average of 2.2 years in one city. Poulin chose the more stable lifostyle in South Bend over the bright 
lights and bigger salaries of the NHL. And he doesn't regret it. 
"I have had other opportuni­ties. It's just that time of year. I am in a business where coaches change every year," Poulin said. "I am extremely happy at Notre Dame. I am th rilled to be here." 
And Notre Dame fans are thrilled to have him. In Poulin's first season, Notre Dame finished 9-23-4. This year the Irish finished 15-15-8 and advanced to the CCHA semifinals at Joe Louis Arena for the first time since the 1981-82 season. 
"I think it has been a con­stant upward curve," Poulin said. "\Ve'vc had some great challenges here. We've gotten better every year. Each year 
we have progressed to a new level. That was the key part about going to Joe Louis this year, we have progressed to a another new level." 
Turning a season around 
After earning home ice in the CCJIA tournament for the first time since 1981-82 in 1998-99, the hockey team entered the 1999-2000 season with high expectations. But the Irish stumbled at the start of the season and lost five of their first six games. 
"I think what we dealt with early was probably that we just thought it was going to happen," Poulin said. "When I say 'we', I think it was the coaches and the players. 
see HOCKEY/page 16 
BASEBALL 

Irish pitching fails to live up to expectations 
By BRIAN TRAVERS Sporrs Wricer 
The Notre Dame pitching staff, which came into last night's game with an NCAA leading 2.72 earned run aver­age (EHA), 
gave up an Northwestern 9 uncharacter­
. Notre Dame 4
istic nine 
runs as the 
20th ranked 
Irish dropped to 3(>-12 in a 9­
4 loss to Northwestern. 
Wildcat batters hit the ball hard all night. pumping out 18 hits, including 16 singles. The first four batters in the order hit 12-18 with 7 RBI. Northwestern pitcher Zach Schara (7-4} scattered nine hits and allowed only two earned runs to record the complete game win. 
"It was just one of those nights that things didn't go our way," head coach Paul Mainieri said after the game. "It's pretty disappointing." 
The Irish pitching staff could not seem to get the job done, as three different pitchers combined to allow the nine Wildcat runs. Starter Drew Duff (4-2) took tlw loss, giving up five runs in three innings. \ttike Naumann and Brandon Viloria each gave up a pair of runs in rf'iief work. 
Northwestern got ahead early. scoring three runs in 
see BASEBALLipage 25 


LIZ LANGffhe Observer 

Second baseman Jeff Perconte bats in a recent game for the Irish. The baseball tri-captain was a winner of this year's Kanaley Award, the highest honor given to senior student-athletes. 
Counting 
down to 
No. 114 
Three months and 30 days from today, the fighting Irish football team faces Texas A&M at Notre Dame Stadium and kicks off its 114th season. 
I guess 
it's not that sur­prising that I'm already in the midst of this count­down. Any 

one of the 
Ted Fox
mass of Spartan and 
Fox Sports ...
Wolverine fans back Almost home that taunted me and my team daily for tlrn last 15 years can testify as to how much I lovti Notre DamP football. 
Case in point: at the Blue­Gold game last Saturday, which the defense won 39-:H using a scoring system that required a degree in math to follow. the players were avail­able for a half an hour after the game for autographs. 
Like you might guess, many of these signature se<ikers were young kids with their parents or older fans just look­ing to wish tlrn playfffS good luck. And thnn .there was nw. A college sophomore, in class with some of the guys whose autograph I was trying to get. and supposedly some sort of sports writer, trying to estab­lish himself as at least a semi~ professional journalist. 
I felt a little goofy and out of place asking all the defensivP backs to sign one of my beat­up sports writing notnbooks, which will now be rntirPd f'rom active dutv. I didn't rnallv care. though. 1•~1 a journalist <·mly because I'm a fan first. 
Fortunately for me. I'm not the only one.this fired up about Irish football. counting the davs until the Aggies come cailing. Sophomoi·e wide receiver David Givens and the rnst of the team are looking forward to that September date. too. 
Hctlccting on last year's :i-7 season. Givens pinpointed om1 of the forces pushing this year's squad toward n~claim­ing national provvess: 
"When you're on a losing team for a year. you get tired of it· vou'rn rnadv to win." Giv(;r{s said. "Ev;rybody has a 
see FOX/page 23 

Tennis 

Track and Field 
Softball
MIAA Conference
SPORTS 

Big East Championships Big East Tournament 
Tournament 
At Piscataway, NJ at Chestnut Hill, Mass.
ATA 
at Albion College 
Friday-Sunday Friday-Sunday
Friday-Saturday
GLANCE 








