
Irish finish 1-1 at showcase 
After a 2-0 loss to South Carolina, the men's 
Scene previews this year's productions for the 
soccer team rallied to a 2-1 victory over Akron 
Department ofFilm, Television, and Theatre's 
in the IPFW Soccer Showcase. 
Mainstage season. 
AUGUST 28, 
Sports . page 18 

Scene . page 10 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 5 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Saint Mary's adds new faces to Board of Trustees 
By MOLLY McVOY Saint Marys Editor 
Thn Saint Mary's Board of Trustees has a new makeup this y,~ar. thanks to the addi­tion of thn~r, 1ww members. 
SislN Barbara Spears, Shirlry L,1wis and <.:.C. f\.'essin.ger arn all new to the hoard. Deborah Sf'hwiebert starts her first elected term this year, aftr,r two years as an appointr,d member of the board and alumnae board prnsid1\nt. 
"We see ISchwiebertI bring­ing lwr knowledge of Saint Marv's as a l'ormer student and hnr strong background in busi­nnss," Bill Schmuhl. chairman of thn board, said. 
Thn changnovPr in the board comes as a result of three long­tim <• board nwmbers' retirc­nwnt. Phillip Faccnnda, Joseph Tuohy, and Darwin Wiekamp left the board this year. 
Schweibert is the manager of lJeere.corn, the on-line market­ing site for Deem & Company. She is also a member of the Friends of the People of Haiti, the Holocaust Remembrance f.ommittee and the Rock Island County Bar Auxiliary. 
"The board is very diverse this year, and that is exciting," Schwiebert said. "We have women, men, religious, unmar­ried and married people. We are diverse in terms of religion and ethnic background as well." 
Lewis and Spears are totally new to the Board of Trustees. 
Spears holds degrees from lloward University, Trinity College and Xavier University. She won the Martin Luther King Award and served as president of the :'-Jational Black Sisters Conference. She is a 
"Our focus is really going to be on the Master Plan implementation, which will primarily have to focus on fund raising." 
Bill Schmuhl chairman of the board 
member of the National Catholic Education Association and the National Association of Female Executives. 
"Two of our new board mem­bers have strong backgrounds in education," Schmuhl said. "We hope to take advantage of their experience in education." 
Lewis was the first woman president at Paine College and served as assistant general sec­retary of the Black College Fund of the General Board of Higher Education. She gradu-

MASS AT THE JACC 

ated !'rorn the University of California at Berkley, and received her Ph.D. in education from Stanford University. 
Nessinger replaces Schweibert as president of the alumnae board and appointed trustee. 
"[Nessingflr] will bring the voice of the alumni to the board," Schwiebert said. "I also hope to bring my personal voice as an alumnae." 
Nessinger graduated from Saint Mary's in 1956 and now primarily does volunteer work at the Mayo Clinic in Arizona. 
'Tm really looking forward to sitting on the Board of Trustees," Nessinger said. "This is going to be a really busy time for Saint Mary's." 
Nessinger and her husband, a former member of the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees, are from Chicago. 
"My goal as alumnae presi­
dent is to create a more active alumnae," Nessinger said. "Especially with this Master Plan starting, the alumnae have to be active and involved." 
As a part of the Master Plan, the college has been drawing on alumnae support, financial in particular. The College is still raising funds for many parts of the Master Plan, and Nessinger believes alumnae will prove an important resource for the College. 
"The alumnae are really the best financial basis the College has," she said. 
Schmuhl agrees that the Master Plan will top the list of priorities for the board this year. 
"Our focus is really going be on the Master Plan implemen­tation, which will primarily 
see TRUSTEES/page 4 

ICONN faces another round of headaches 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Assistant News Editor 
A once popular Notre Dame hangout faces further complica­tions following summer problems with alcohol and violence. 
Converted to an alcohol-free dance club, Irish Connection (popularly known as !CONN), 525 N. Hill St., spent much of this summer clashing with law enforcement officials and the court system in a battle that may eventually close the business' doors forever. 
A raid on the club in November of 1998 uncovered 95 under­age Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Then, last September, the city of South Bend forced the bar to surrender its liquor license. 
This June, amidst neighbors' complaints of litter and drunk­en arguments in the streets, another blow came to the club when 18-year-old Carl McFadden was shot and killed as he drove near Crescent and Hill streets. 
"For many years, it was a place where people fought inside and out. People were found with drugs and weapons," said Ann-Carol Nash, assistant city attorney for South Bend. "We were babysitting that piece of property every weekend night." 
Despite a court order on July 28 that mandated the club's nightly closing by midnight, club owners and the city attor­ney's office struck a deal this month allowing the club to remain open until 1:15 a.m. 
"They have to have security at each entrance and in the parking lot. They have to check people for weapons and dan­gerous bottles. The club also has to clean up and down Hill Street by 7:30 a.m. everyday," Nash said. "Any indication that they're not doing that would be a reason to bring them back to court and hold them in contempt." 
Club owner Leon Townsend fears the court order will hurt his business. 
"We cater to the teenage crowd because there's no other place for young people to go. Most of them don't start going out until 10 [p.m.]." Townsend said. 
Officials at Notre Dame see the actions taken by the city as a step in the right direction. Off-campus student housing is with­in walking distance of !CONN. 
"ICONN in the past year really wasn't a big hangout spot for students," said Bill Kirk, vice president of student affairs. "If there is a place that has a criminal problem, there is a danger 
see ICONN/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, August 28, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Cruising in Spree-ville 
In the small town where I was raised, the sign 
of popularity in middle school was ownership of 
a Spree -a small scooter which resembles a 
mot.orcydf' but ran only reach speeds of 30 to 35 
miles per hour. Besides a big 
lrampolinu, from the time I 
hit sixlh grade, there was 
nothing I bnggPd for more. 
Each of mv best friends, Alissa and Nicole, had one and were able to take "Spree trips" together. The only thing wnrsn lhan being .Spreo•less was lhP-fact that I was not even allowed lo ride on the back of my friends' scooters. I was strictly for­bidden from eV£,n sitting on one. so cvon wlrnn Alissa or Nicoll' would invite mu on a Spren trip. I couldn't go. 
Onn dav I dncidPd to take 

my chancns and accompany Nicole tu Jason 
Mitch1~11·s housn on the back of her Elite, the 
flVon f'anciN Spree that tho really popular clique 
mcmb11rs owned. It was around four in the after­
noon; my mom was upstairs in her room, and my 
brothers wnre playing catch in I.he front yard. 
Nicole started her Spree in the driveway and rolled down the hill in fronl of my house. I walk!\d beside her and we went up another hill until we were completdy out of sight from my house. 
"The coast is dear," I said as I jumped on the back. Nicol,i revved the engine and we took off ­at the ever so exciting speed of 15 miles per hour. "Whoo lrno!" I thought to myself. "I am cool now . .Jason is going to thirik I am so popular. Look at me, I'm riding a Spree!" 
On the other side of the grass median on Lynnway Drive, I saw a car that resembled my fatlrnr's. "No way," I thought. "That can't be Dad. It's way too early for him to be home from work." 
As the car got closer I realized it was my father, and in my adolescent mind, I knew there was only onP thing I could do: I quickly did a dive roll off tlrn Sprno onto the blacktop without even informing Nicole. She nearly lost control of the Spree, looked back and wondered what I was doing. 
I made eye contact with my father for a brief momont as I lay on thf) strnet, scraped knees and all. Busted. I knew it, I was busted. If I had been smarter, I would have realized lhal staying on the Spree and simply ducking behind Nicole would have bmm far less notirnable than making some .James Bondi.Jackie Chan-risque dive into midair. 
I told Nicolo to continue her journey to Jason's, but I had to go home and face my father and mother, who dad had surely infr,rmed by now. I figured I would be yelled at and then grounded for nternity. 
I walked in the house and up to my parnnts' room. My mom just shook her head. "We're dis­appointed in you. that's all. You knew the rules." No punishmr.nt, just the "disappointed" line. 
I haven't been on a Spree since that day. I'm not sure if Nicole ever told Jason what happened, but I was really embarrassed when I saw him the next day in social studies class. 
I spnnl the rnst of my middle school years try­ing to forgnt the incident and attempting to sur­vivn on Lynnway Drive, right in the heart of Sprne-V ille. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the aurhor and not necessarily thos<' of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Finn Pressly Mike Connolly Jason McFarlcy Graphics 
Kiflin T umcr 

Jose Cuellar 
Sports 

Lab Tech 
Kerry Smith 

Shannon Bennett 
Viewpoint 
Par McElwee 

The Ohscrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i• ?ttblishtd Mond2y rhrough Frid,y c>:ccpr during, ('l(am .1nd VJ.Cation pt-riodx. The Ohscrvcr is a mr-mlxr ofthe A.,,ocia1rJ rn:». All n:prod11crion rii;hi., arr rc>Crvcd. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Tuesday  Wednesday  
. Seminar: "The Republic  . Activities Night:  
of Order;" Ivan Jaksic;  Information on campus  
Boom C-103 of Hesburgh  clubs and organizations at  
Library; 12:30 p.m.  Saint Mary's; Angela  
. Student Activities Night:  Athletic Facility; 7 p.m.  
Information on Notre  
Dame clubs; Joyce Center;  
7 to 9 p.m.  

Thursday  Friday  
. Lecture: "Vulnerability  . Booksigning: Author  
of" International Migrants: A  Nicholas Sparks; first floor  
Social Construction;" Jorge  of Hammes Bookstore; 11  
Bustamante ofNotrn Dame  a.m. to noon.  
sociology department and  . Pep rally: Football pep  
the Kellogg lnstitutri; Room  rally; Joyce Center arena;  
C-103 of Ilesburgh Library;  Gate 9 opens at 5:50 p.m.  
4:15 p.m.  for students.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Word pending on Texas A&M gay discrimination policy 
AUSTIN, Texas 

Texas A&M University officials have yet to reinstate a policy that would have barred discrimination based on sexual oriontatiun, seven days after an initial statement was yanked off their Web site bv A&M officials. 
A&M oflicials ·said the revision was originally made Wednesday, Aug. 16, after yPars of pressure from students and faculty. Administrators pulled the revision within 24 hours of its post0 ing. 
Lane Stephenson, A&M spokesman, said the statement was removed because student groups misinterpret­ed the revision, and that its addition was intended to be a change in word­ing only, rather than a change in A&M policies toward homosexuals. 
Unlike the previous policy, which 
the matter will be recon­
sidered at such time as when 
all the concerned parties 
have reached an understand­
ing as to what the intent of 
the proposed change is." 
Lane Stephenson Texas A&M University spokesman 
stated that any form of discrimination was unacceptable, the contested statement explicitly prohibits discrim­ination or harassment "on the basis of race, color, national or ethnic ori­gin, religion, sex, disability, age, sex­ual orientation or veteran status." 
PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Campus paper vies with national press 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
Management at The Daily Collegian, long accus­tomed to running the only free-of-charge daily news­papor on campus. said this week that Pennsylvania State University's Newspaper Readership Program hurts the student-run publication by forcing it to com­pete with professionals. The publisher of the USA Today, Tom Curley, is scheduled to join Penn State President Graham Spanier this morning at the HUB­Robeson Center to promote a newly beefed-up version the program. The two-year-old readership program officially broke out of the dorms for the first time this week. Penn State now provides national and local newspapers every day to thousands of students who live off campus in State College and at 19 other Penn State campuses. Students at University Park can pick up copies of The New York Times, USA Today and the Centre Daily Times at 27 new vending machines sim­ply by swiping their ID cards. Penn State buys the papers at a discounted rate using tuition money. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWearher i»foreca~r for davrime-conditions and hit!h temperarures 
H  L  
Monday  ~  83  68  
Tuesday  ~  83  68  
Wednesday  ~  84  67  
Thursday  ~  81  64  
Friday  ~  81  64  
~;;\~:;\~q MQ Showens T-storms Rain Flurries Snow foe  !) Sunny  ~ Pf. Cloudy  u Cloudy  
Vi,i As,t,ciated Pttttu G,.pt,aN,et  

Stephenson said ho does not know when a revised statement will be released, but that staff members of tho office of the dean of student life at A&M are working on rnwording tho policy for clarity. 
"President Bowen has stated that the matter will be reconsidered at such time as when all the concerned parties have reached an understand­ing as to what the intr,nt or the pro­posed change is," he said. 
"It was not intended to represent any shift in the university's policiPs or position." 
Both the University of' Texas and Texas Tech University, which along with A&M comprise the three largest state schools in Toxas, have policies barring discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. 

DILLARD UNIVERSITY 
Bush vows funds for minority students 
NEW ORLEANS, La. 

Republican presidential nominee George W. Bush proposed improvements to higher education at a forum on Thursday at Dillard University in New Orleans. Bush addressed Dillard students. community leadors and educators to announce his proposals to improve higher education iri the United States. The Texas gov­ernor vowed to dedicate $600 million in funding to minority institutions of higher education. "Whether you are Republican or Democrat, we share the understand­ing that education is the gateway to success in Americ.a," Bush said. Dillard University president Michael Lomax said tho campus extended invitations to nominees to participate in a forum at tho university. "During this election year, we havn invited all of the major candidates to come to Dillard." Lomax said. "W11 are delighted that Gov. Bush is the first to accept that invitation." The university invited Bush to share his public policy program concerning minority schools of" higher education, Lomax said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
p,..-,u,.: 
®© ...... 
High Low V,.,AlfMXi~dPIJIU  Shower•  Rain  T..•torm•  Flurrtea  Snow  Ice  
Atlan1a Battimore Boston Chicago Houston  91 79 73 85 95  72 65 61 71 76  Las Vegas Los Angeles Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  90 76 n 79 81  73 63 68 67 67  

Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy C 2000 Acc:uWealher, Inc. 
Portland  81  55  
Sacramento  94  61  
St. Louis  91  75  
Tampa  89  75  
Wash DC  77  69  



Monday, August 28, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Eucharistic Congress celebrates Jubilee year 
By MOLLY McVOY 
S.,inr M,irv\ New, Fditor 
Tlw Notn• Dame and Saint Mary's communiti<•s joinnd tlw larg,•r ,·om11Hr11i1y of' llw Fort Wav,w dion•sp l'or a hwharistk Co,;grnss 011 Saturday. 
Tlw r•vnnt was part of tlw cliocP­san 1·nl<'bralio11 of' tli11 .Jubilnn. l\llass was lwld in tlw .loycP .,\lhl!'Li1· and Convocation C<'nl<\r l'or tlw n111ir1' cliornsP alm1}{ with spcak<'rs and Pvrrnts for both 1·ampusns. 
"What was grPat about il was tlrnl it \\as nn assPmbly ol' stu­d1\nls, f'anllt.y and stall," said \1idwl!P '\Jagl<', Saint Mary's stu­dt>nl body vin• prr\sidPnL "It was a gn•at way t o join \.Vi L h th P Sist1•rs of' tlw lloly Cross. too." 
NaglP 1vas a ll1<'1ll lwr of' llw rommittPf> that planrwd t!w 1•w11ts ill Sainl .\lmv·s to coincide \\'ilh llw <'.Vl'llt. T.h<' a1·tiviti1·s lwcanw l'<H'US!'d on r<'d<'cli(·ating 
lhn College to Mary and joining Not.rn name students and the grnatPr cornrnunity of Fort Wayni1 in cnl<'.bratlng the Eur.harist. livonts on Saint Mary's cc1111pus indudl'd a blessing of' all the rnsi­tlPnc1: halls and a prnyPr sf'rvicc rcdrdicating th11 Collngn to Mary. 
Saint Mary's studnnts thcrn joint•d the rest ol' the diocese in mass at the .Joyce Cnnter. 
"We [Saint l\llary's s1udPntsl were, by far. the most wcll-rcprc­snntnd of any part ol' the cornmu­n i ty," NaglP said. "The most imµortant part of this has benn the' l'al'i that we W!)rc a very visi­bl11 part or a larger community." 
AsiclP from hosting mass for th<; · dim:PS<\ Notrn Damn also host.Pd many Pvnnts in conjunction with Lh<' rongn•ss. Tim Uniwrsity host­<icl Hosary at th11 Grotto, Stations or tlw Cross and tours or the Snitn 
MUSl'llm. 
The all-diocPsan mass was cclc­brat1\d by tlw bishops of tlrn hirt Wayn<'-South !fond dior.ose. 
Merger brings Broadwing to ND 
By NATE PHILLIPS 
t',;ew.1 Writer 
J\s they packed into the Joyce CPnter to sign up for phon<' plans, many Notrp Damn students may have noticed a change in the corpo­rate sponsorship of their sou­venir T-shirts. 
The nPw logo for BroadWing Inc. replaced the usual Cincinnati Bell Long Dislancr, insignia, rnprnsrmting a shift in communication services at the University. 
"I saw that the logo was dif­for<; n t on the back of tho shirts," said sophomore Christian Suarez. "I wasn't quitP sure what that meant.,. 
Thn change signals a new nnme and identity [or the nwrgc•d Cincinnati Bf'II Inc. and the Texas-based IXC Communications Inc. 
Tho young company's presi­dent and CEO, Ilichard 

"Broadwing has in its lineage a heritage ofcustomer service excellence." 
Richard Ellenberger CEO, Broadwing 
El11rnberger, unvniled BroadWing last November. 
Ellenberger rcilc-;ased a state­nrnnt after th,• merger was complete, f)Xpressing his nnthusiasm and nxcitnment concerning the future of 13roadWing. 
"With r.ommunications mergers seemingly a daily nccurnmce ... customers arc telling us that the landscape is littered with broken promises and uninspircd thinking when it comes to enabling them to think ahead of their own cus­tomers noeds. 
"BroadWing will be diffor­ent. With the strong pedigree 
of Cincinnati lkll as orn~ or tlH' nation's best managed. most rnliablc:, innovative and n1s­torncr-foc11serJ communica­tions companies. BroudWing has in its lineage a iwritagc of customer servir.e m,collence and relationship building," Ell,mbP.rger said. 
The long-distance rates for the new BrondWing will stay the same as with Cincinnati Bfdl. For students, tlrn rate currently holds at. 9.1J cnnts a minuto. 
Officials said tlw company will continue to uphold its poli­cy of' providing rnliable long­distunc:e coverage for the 48 continontal states. 
Students have also found that campus voice niail ser­vicos have been upgraded, and now feature individualized mailboxes. 
"I appreciate the pc:rsonal­izod mail system," said sopho­more Matt Wilkerson. "It's nice that I can keep my nws­sages private." 

SMC prof assists observation team for Mexican elections 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
'.\:L·w, \'Critt.'r 
'\fare fklangc•r has long frnd an inli•n•sl in inLPrnat.ional and romparalivP politics. This sum­nwr. Llw Saint \-larv's assistant political sri1·111·p pr.of1•ss1ir had Llw opportunity to l'ollow Uw l\.lP.xic,rn pri•sic!Pnlial Pl<'i'tion lirst-hand. 
"\\'p \\'I'!'(' tlwn• to obsPrVt'," l~l'langn said. "WP \\r•rpn't llwrP in any way to tr•II 1woplP ,,hat lo do. \\'p WPl't' tlwn• lo support llw pro1·pss." 
BP!ang1•r trn,·1•!Pd with a dPl<•­gation ol' studPnls. missionariPs. a,·adPmil's and otlwr prnf1•ssion­ab to \\il1wss tlw landmark !'!Pc­tion. Thi• d1•]pgation \IHS put togl'tlwr by lh1• San Franrisrn­bnsPd humnn rights watchdog organization Clohal l!xdiang" in ro1111P1·tion with a !\1e•xintn human rights organization rall<•d "Alianza C:ivirn." or Civic /\llianc:P. 
"Tlw Civic AlliancP invitPd p1•np!P to 1·,1mP to discourag<' tlw Pill ilnstilulional HPvolutionary 
Party) from fraud," Belanger 
said. 

Tlw .July 2 :\foxican presiden­tial l'iection was the' first in 71 yPars in which tlw ruling party, tlw l'BI was in significant clangnr ol' losing to tlw consPrvative National ,\ction Party (PAN). ,...-hich in th11 past has b<;rm the only party to posP any sort of chall1ingP to tlw l'HI. Tlw two r'.amlidatPs includml Vkc•ntP Fox of l'A'.\/, himself' a l'ornwr Coca­Cola cxncutive. and Francisco Labasticla, tlw handpickPd suc­cf'ssor to tlw <"UIT<'nt president, l!nH1sto :/cdio. 
"i\1c'xiro has bnrrn run by the sanw political party sine!' tlw '20s," 131-langPr said. 
:\foxi1·nn politi<·s arr• rife with 1·01-ruption, a1·c·ording to BPlangPr. 
lIn said 1.hat in tlw past., a non­PHI candidat<' could appear Lo win tlw <>lcction with a clnar majority of thP vot!i as national polls shut down for the night, but in tlrn morning, th<, PHI candi­dat<! would havn won. Global I;xrhang1\ reports that rrnl' lunc!ws, vitamins, and farm 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 

Scholarships available for Freshmen in Electrical Engineering -$cholarship would start this Spring!!!! 
College is a time for decision. Choose to become a leader. 
Scholarships available for Sophomores in: Chemistry, Comp Info Systems, Comp Science, Math, Physics, Foreign Area·Studies, or Languages and the following Engineering majors: Aeronautical, Aerospace, Chemical. Civil, Computer, Electrical. Environmental, Industrial, Mechanical, or Nuclear 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Kl:1119ck.1@nd.edu 
"We were there to observe. We weren't there to tell people what to do. We were there to support the process" 
Marc Belanger assistant professor of political science 
equipment have been usod to "buy" votes from rural farmers, and· punishment was threatened l'or those who did not vote for the rm tirkPL. 
In 1996, however, the FPdera! Eh!ctoral lnstitutl' OFE) was cre­atPd as an indepcndPnt body in charge of' carrying out elections. to scparatP the partins from the govnrnmm1t and to k!rnp rither party from corrupting the c:lec­tion. 
"We were all accredited by the IFE to bP electoral observc>rs," Belanger said. "We wanted to avoid lJS/Mnxico problems. We were just foreigners coming in and working with Mexicans who 

were trying to democratize the country." Belanger and his group wern in Mexico from June 25 to .Julv 
5. They spent :1 days in l\1cxicr> City bning briefod by the Civic Alliance, thn IFE. the United Nations and both political par­ties. 
ThP group then split into smaller units to travel to various regions of tlrn country. Belanger's small group Wf\nt to Guerrero. a poor area on tlrn !\1nxican coast which has bcPn targPtnd by Global Exchange. Its rural location. poor citizens, and violnnco make it rip1' for nlTorts by the govermrnmt to buy votes. 
Belanger said hn notic!1d sonw irregularities in the 0,lection process while he rnmainnd in thP arna. 
"There were trucks handing out fertilizer, and the timing seemed off," Belanger said. 
"Women were offered farm devices and handed over their voting credentials in P,Xchange," he added. The voting crnckntial exchangP, Belanger said, was a symbol of tlw !'act that the 
S-O-S Welcomes Back our Advocates from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's! 
~Weare-looking forward to"T' working with you again! 
Remember to spread the word ... 
. S-O-S is the rape crisis center of Saint Joseph County . New Advocates are needed to Assist 
victims of sexual and domestic violence . Advocate Training begins September 26 . Deadline for applications is September 20 . To apply or for more information, call: 
283-1308 
women hnd agreed lo votn for the PR!, since they had acc<;pted the govcrnm<;nt's gift of tlw farm equipmcmt. 
But Belanger noted that, for the most part, party oflicials did not overstep their oflicial bound­aries, and citizens wern able lo use new ballot boxes and polling places with curtains for privacy. 
"A lot of tlw stuff that would affect people's votns occurrnd beforehand," Belangnr said. "The actual process worked pretty well. The IFE had control of the voting process." 
When all tlw votes WPr<' rount­ed, the irregularitins didn't mat­ter. "Tlw ruling party lost tlw prnsickntial Plection !'or tlw lirst timP sine!' its lwginning." Belanger said. 
rox ,von Llw Plr•e·tion with 44 percent of the popular votP and by a margin of scvnn to night percent. 
The victory may have also been dun to the support of :/Pdio. who allowPd for tlw lirst tinw a primary vote last !'all to select the PHI candidatn. z1,cfio tlwn agreed to abide by tlw .Ju[y 2 election results. 
"J\ftnr the election h•dio was viewed by tlw pnoplP as an important part of this." Bl'iangN said. "lie created tlw primary and honornd th<' rnsu!L IIP allowed for tlw transition from onn party to anotlwr." 
As for tlw notion that tlH' PAN will now snek Lo turn tlrn Mexican political system in its favor and usn corruption to kPPp itsPlf in ilH' prPsidPncy. B<'langnr disagnins. 
"I think that Fox is not inter­
i>sted in taking owr likP tlH' l'HI 
did." BPlanger said. "I I is party 
does not haw a majority in itlw 
Mexican I rnngn~ss. Ifp is going 
to want. to rompromisl'... 
TlwrP is also a third party in the Mc:xican svste·m that \\ill supposPdly kn(:p th<' 0L111•r two in linn. Tlw PHD i'll!TPntlv has tlw mavoral sPat ol' \IPxirn ·citv. 
Acco1·ding tn lfrlangc•r, Fo.x·s first conrPrn will lw to lwlp thP stall' bcrnm<· !Pss partisan and focl('ralizn t.lw svst<'l1l that unc!N lhP PHI was ,rn;rl' rlPpPndPnl on thi' n·ntral PHI-run gowrnnwnL 
"TlwrP will rontinuP to lw a 
lll'Pd," l3Pla11gp1• said. "\\'lwtlwr 
tlw intPrnational organization 
will SPP it that way or th<' 
natives, II rlon·t kno\\'.I Hight 
now. it was a hug<' di1T,·1·<111n· 
that the IFE controlled th,· 
result Now pPopl<' can bPliPvl' 
lt!w cl1~ction prorl'ssl will lll' 
fair." 

.-------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, August 28, 2000 
tho place," Nash said. Nash said shn donsn't fornsen
ND swimmer guards olympic trials I ICONN 
Irish Connection's problems 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
New, \Xlriccr 
Tim omployeos of tho Indiana University Natatorium in Indianapolis had thnir momnnl lo shinn this August as lifeguards al the U.S. Olympic trials. Among t.heso watchful guards was Austin A11dnrson, a junior al Notrn Damri and a member of th<' men's swimming LP.am. 
"I work at. tlrn Natatorium. so it was just another nvnnl !"or us," said Anderson. "But it was a big deal for tho Natatorium. It's a pretty big facility." 
Whiln tlw Natalorium's life­guards am of"tnn assignnd to ovnrs1Hi various swim meets twld then', the trials wor1: a more prominnnt ovcnt. Tho facility was closf\d from August 4 through 17, with th<\ trials 

occurring August ') to 16. 
"This would probably be the highlight of my lifeguarding carenr," said Anderson, though he has made at least seven rescues in his four years as a lifeguard. 
Although it snems unliknly that tlrn nation's best swim­mers would need to be res­cued, even athletes wh() makP Urn chlorinated waters their sflcond home are at risk. According to an Associated Press report, sevPral of the swimnH'rs have asthma, or push themselves too hard dur­ing workouts, making it diffi­cu It for thi>m to breathe. Between events there may be as mnny as Ml swimme,:s in the pool vying for position or diving into tlrn water dangm·­ously close to other rmnpeti­tnrs. 
'Tm sure pnople see the life­guards and say lt's pointless." said Anderson. «But if some­thing happened and there worn no lifeguards around, what would·they say then?" 
The lifeguards worked in 20­m inu te shifts, rotating posi­tiom; around tlrn pool and tak­ing breaks to keep them focused. 
"It isn't as strenuous as nor­mal lifeguarding because you don't really c~xpect anyone to need rescuing," said Anderson. . 
Although Anderson watched these Olympic trials holding a red flotation device and wear­ing a shirt that mads "guard." he is contemplating being in the water for the 2004 trials. 
''I'll graduate in two years so I'll have a decision to make," Anderson said. "But, I'll be in the real world without time to train 20 hours per Wfrnk." 
RUSSIA 

Fire fore es evacuation of tower 
Associated Pres., 
MOSCOW 
Firn spread rnlcntlessly through the Ostankino televi­sion tower, the world's second­tallest freestanding structure, and blazed into the early morn­ing Monday as hopes faded for four people bPlieved trapped in an elevator hundreds or feet above tho ground. 
The fire, which began Sunday afternoon. cut almost all televi­sion service in Moscow. 

Morn than 12 hours after the blaze broke out in the upper reaches of the 1.771-foot futur­istic lower, flames and smoke had spread down to about 380 feet above the base. Firefighters were unable to work above that level because of searing heat and heavy smoke, the !TAR-Tass news agency reported. 
No deaths or injuries were reported. But fire department 
spokesman Nikolai Sarychev said Sunday night that three firefighters and an elevator operator were believed to be trapped in a lift that was stuck at about 860 feet -far higher than the level where work reportedly was stopped on Monday. 
The !TAR-Tass news agency also reported that several gov­ernment workers at the tower had not been heard from since the fire started. 
~t~~ 

I J 'if N. IHNWee9 H. 
~j HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
e) 

For Monday'sTraining Program by Licensed Professionals Call for infom1ation 
289-5080 
One mile from Camous 

·GOING, SERVER~~(; '~HOSTS, BARTENDERS' 
,M (21+), AND CooKs., Ncl'':5 
_ ·,,;;:_~1f«r~~ 
.>EXPERIENCE NECESSAR't.,. 
~~ $ '• •. 
·.,··. 

APPLY WITHIN: 
ONESTAR STEAK 
AND SALO 
N. GRA 
.~ <~tI·:'" >' , 
continued from page 1 spreading to olher local bars. "There is always a possibility for students." of this happening to other 
"It makes everybody in the establishments ii' there am community safer. I don't want a problems, complications or Notre Dame or Saint i\1ary's concerns. but we always givr. a student hurt when passing by warning," she said. 
__:_-_-_-:_---=--=--=--=--======== 
Trustees 
continued from page 1 
have to focus on f'u-nd raising," he said. "We've already shtrtcd building some parts of' the plan, ancl if we're going to do anymore on Urn Master Plan, we're going to have to pay for it." 
Both Schmuhl and Schwiebert agree that in order to find donors for the Master l'lan. Saint Mary's administra• tors must promotn the (oll<ige and ('ind individuals who bn!icvo in its mission. 
"We want to makll rnrtain that we'rn Lolling thP Saint l\hlry's story and bringing in new donors." Schwicb11rt said. 
The Coll<:gn is also lrngin11ing a strategic plan for manv of the departmr.nts and, according to Schmuhl, support and implo­mentation of tlw Colleg11's strategic planning will also bn a focus of the board this ynar. 
ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame Freshmen students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September 4, at 7:30 p.m. in the Stadium Athletic Training Center. (Gate E -Football Stadium) 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONALSTUDYPROGRAMS 201 SECURITY BUILDING Notre Dame, hldiana 46556 T: .631-588:Z Fu: 631-5711 

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS INFORMATION MEETING 
MEXICO PROGRAMS Monterrey,Mexico Puebla, Mexico 
Claudia Kselman Student Returnees 
Tuesday August 29, 2000 318 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINES: October 1, 2000 for Spring 2001 December 1 for Fall 2001 

Monday, August 28, 2000 COMPILEU FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
British troop release talks begin: 
Efforts to win the rnlnase of' 1 l caplive British soldiPrs in Sinrra Lnonn htwe bngun in coop­nra tion with thn government of' tlw West i\frican country. The troops dispapp1rnred in an arna occupied by a small and ruthlnss ri·rn·gadc fal'lion of righters known as tlrn Wl'st Sidt\ Boys, Bri1ish spokesman Cnpl. John Price said. 
Raid fails to capture terrorist: A 
raid on an Islamic militant hidlH>Ut in tlrn \Vt\Sl Bank village e11d,,d Sunday with thrne lsnll'li soldiurs dead. Abu llamoud, known as tlw lnader of the militant llamas group's mili­tary wing, was woundnd and flrd the shoot­out into Nabulus. Tho raid comes a month af'lPr Israeli and Palestinian negotiators hroko rww ground at llw Camp David summit and just lrnf'orn Prosidnnt Clinton rnturns to tho region to push for morn advances. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
UN Peace Summit tackles con­flicts: \ton, than 1,000 religious !tiac!Hrs gatf11,r today at tlw unit!'d Nations for the Milknnium World Peace Summit to discuss solutions to connir.ts. Participants say they hopP the summit will rnsult in rnsolutions on JW11('.P, povPrty and tlrn environmnnt, as well as thP rormalion of a permanent counr.il of rnligious IPaders to advise thP United Nations on provcnting and settling disputos. 
Marines ground U.S. aircraft: The Marine Corps announced Sunday the tempo­rary grounding of all 11 of its MV-22 Osprey till-rotor aircraft, thA hybrid airplane-heli­coph'r that has been under increased scruti­ny since one crashed during a training exer­cis11 in April, killing all 19 Marines aboard. Tim Osprey's problem is likely to draw the most public attention. in part because of rec­ollections of the April crash -the worst MarinP helicopter loss in more than a decade 
Cheney yet to specify on drugplan: Details of Republican presidential candidate GPorge W. Bush's plan to provide s1\niors with a prescription drug benefit will conw "in the not-too-distant future," vice J>rr.sidcntial running mate Dick Clrnnr.y promised Sunday. It won't Im soon enough for Democratic presidential rival Al Gore, who is gearing up !'or a wer.k ol' campaigning fol'.usPd on tlw lack of dPtail f'rom Bush on tlw issu<'. Gore's campaign CVt!n called on lll'alth and Human SPrviccs Secretary Donna Shalala lo criticize Bush l'or not yet fleshing out his promise to "make prescription drugs available and affordable for 1wery senior v,ho JH'Pds th 1m1." 
Market Watch 8/23 

Dow 
11144.65 +5.50
]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: Down: 
• 
Volume:
1,287 545 1,49(> 

866,453.312 
AMEX: 924.10 + 1.35 Nasdaq: 401 l .01 +52.80 NYSE, 671.62 +0.46 S&P 500: 1505.97 +7.84 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMl'ANYISECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
<'ISCi l W~ 1·~~1., iUU ))  d.67  , !.177~  67.1')  
ll~I..Nl·T INC ill.<LNI  +40..~8  +2.')! 12  ~.73  
INTI·! UlRl'il"-TtJ  ,l4(,  +l.,11>4:iO  74.(i'..t  
lll·l.l (:<lMl'l'l'ER,111·.U.)  +j._i'i  . 1.251:'i  .UU,9  
Wi llll llCO~I INC (\X'C\lMI  . fl.72  ~o..'!47'i  }4.'i(i  

INDIA 

Associated Press 
HYDERABAD 

Monsoon rains washed away homes, roads and villages in eastern India during the past week, leaving hundreds of thou­sands of people to drink contaminated nood water and eat snails and tad­poles to survive. At least 150 people died, bringing the death toll to more than 300 since the mon­soon season began Iast month. 
Millions of' people in three eastern states were left homeless by the rains, which had been typical of lndia·s July-September monsoon season until recent days, when they became extremely heavy. In southeastern Andhra Pradesh state. meteorolo­gists recorded 10 inches of rain -the highest amount in more than five decades. 
In addition to the 150 people who died in Andhra Pradesh, at least a half-million were uproot­ed from their homes. State officials hurried to trv and feed nearly 100,000. peo­ple who were crammed into government shelters. 
Hundreds of wailing people sat on the wet floors of schools and com­munity halls Sunday in Hyderabad, the state capi­tal. They received drink­ing water and packets of food, but many expressed despair. 
"We came out of our flooded house with noth­ing but the clothes we had on that night," said Sunkamma, a 45-year-old woman from Virasatnagar. Sunkamma lost every­thing, including her most prized possession -a black-and-white television set. 
"We have nothing left," she said. 
The rain washed away thousands of homos and roads, damaged public property and private crops and ripped open 1,600 
irrigation tanks. Power was cut off in some areas. 
State Chief Minister Chandra Babu Naido described the floods as "one of the worst calami­ties to befall this state" and asked the federal gov­ernment for a $66 million aid package. The overall damage to the state was estimated at $164 million. 
Elsewhere, tens of thou­sands of people in north­eastern Assam state remained stuck Sunday in government camps with little or no access to food, medicine or clean drink­ing water. The floods have killed 100 people there and affected millions. 

Massacres prelude Clinton's visit 
told the Associated Press. Police of Colombia.
Associated Press 
were investigating whether the During his one-day stop in BOGOTA attack was carried out by paramili­Colombia on Wednesday, Clinton will Gunmen killed at least 17 people in tary militias or rival left-wing guer­meet President Andres Pastrana to two separate massacrns Sunday, one rillas. Both groups arc activP in the discuss a $1.3 billion U.S. anti-nar­of which officials attributed to right­region. cotics aid package for Colombia and wing paramilitary militias. Meanwhile, suspected rightist gun­its Andean neighbors recently 
Tim killings come three days before men raided two barrios along a nine­approved in Washington. President Clinton is to visit Colombia mile stretch of highway outside tho The aid is being provided despite to discuss U.S. anti-narcotics aid to Pacific port of Buenaventura, killing objections by international human the drug-producing nation. s1wen people and lflaving their bodins rights organizations. The groups 
In one attack, gunmen seized. along the road. The killers painted have urged Clinton to withhold U.S. interrogated and then executed 10 nearby buildings with the initials assistancf1 until Pastrana takes residents of two poor miighborhoods AUC, the Spanish initials for the f'irmPr action to curh the paramili­in tho Caribbean coastal town of paramilitary umbrella group calling tary forces, which have ties to the Cienaga. Magadalena State police itself the United Self-defense Forces country's military. 
r------------------------------------------­The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday. August 28, 2000 
Gore ai01s for falllily Illan illlage
High winds kick in, 
A,snciated Press 

fan wildfire flames 
FirPl'ightPrs wi-1·1• on thPir guard Sunday as :w mph wind gusts thn•a1l•1wcl to wors«'n wilclf'ir1's that ha\'I' t.urnPd hundr«-ds o/' thousands o/' acn•s of fon•st to ash. 
\\'ind alri·adv was blanu•d for whipping 111i n tirPstorm in South Dakota's 111ountai1111us Black Ilills. Tlw firp lwd S\Wpl anoss llHJr<' than ii2,000 ,l(TI\S by Sunday, and hm•st SPrvi!'.P offi('ials said till'\' f'parPd ii 
pursuit ol' tlw Whit<' 1lousn and.

roti"ld rc•main "!( 'sjust mouing too flowing to tlrn 
to an extraordinary dPgrnn, tlw

1':Xl)l(ISiVI'. lire lirws.
fast .fr>r us to he doing 
T h (\ 
vice presidPnt is focusing on his

!\Ion· than l1'11 
any qood on the n·porls ft-om 
family as he defines his irnag(•

Lhnusaml 1wopl<' 
lhl' fire li,rns, 
apart from the Clinton adminis­

Wf'l"I' slill l1ghl­r;rcnwd." 
ing 2;{ major as WPII as tlrn 
tration. 

vveathcr 
"This campaign is all about

lir1•s in Monlana 
that had Jeff Gildhaus n~ports, [1\II 
Amt>rica·s familil's," said 

Fire information officer us that W<' 
spokPsnrnn Chris L<'hann.

rharr1•d somP 
(170,000 /IITl'S. Offida Is t.lw rP and ill Wyoming s,1id U1P fin, lint-s Wt'rP quiPt Sunday. hul tlwy w<•r1•11't lt·t­ting down tlinir guard 
"I havP a f'PPling that wP'II diS!'OVPr lhal SOllH' or tlw firc•s havt' inrrPasc·d dramatically," said l•:.l.y1111 Burknll of' llw National l11t1•ragPnry Fin• CPnll'r in BoisP, Idaho. "TIH•n•s so many PIPnwnts out thN!' working against us slnPp canyons. winds that makn tires run. 
,\notlwr blaz<' was sparkPcl bv a moton·vrl<' accidPnt latP S~, n day 111• ,ir Llw Nort]11, as L nmwr ·or YPllowstone National Park and had quickly sprnad lo :{,000 111-rc's within a 1'1\w hours. offkials said. 
MorP than I 00 homPs lwlwP<'n tlw firp's advancing I'd g1• a n d t111' t nw n oI' B<' d Lodge! wc•rc• l'varuatl'd. but tlw blazP was spreading through tlw upp1•r limbs of' ll'P('S and 
DUBUQUI•:, Iowa Whf'n Al and TippPr Coro moving Loo l'asL to bri11g in ftrn­
slPpped off tlw hotl'l PiPvator tighlP1·s. of'lil'ials said. Instead. 
and found a string quart!•l play­liv<' air lankPrs wnrP attacking 
ing !"or lrnr 52nd birthday, it tlrn flanws from llw sky. 
was tlH' "It's just moving too f'ast for 
latPst ol' us lo be doing any good on tlw 
many l'ami­ground." said .lt>ff c;ildhaus, 
1 y 

lirt\ information of1k<'r. 
momonts In Idaho, wlwrn morn than 
to bl' cap­709,000 11('1"PS or l'ornst and 
turPd 011 rnn,1.w land was burning, Cov. 
the cam­

I> irk "-" m pthn r 11 P sig ,wd a 
paign trail. proclamation Sunday exwnd­
To a ing a :rn-day stall' of enrnr­
largl' W'll<'Y !'or anollwr month to 
extPnt, k1•1'p go\·nrnmi>nl aid and 
Cort's family has hit tlw road r «' s o u r c <' s 
to lwlp in tlrn vict\ prPsidnnt's 


havP at lt>ast 
Corn's family has long playPd st~v1•ral more 
an important roll' in his cam­w1wks or 
paign !"or tlw pr1\sidPncy, bu! work bt•l"on• w1• can hopn to 
tlw prot"il1\ has golt11n highPr gc•t tlw upper hand on most of" 
since tlrn Dnmocralic National tlwsn f'in~s," Kt•mplhnrrin said. 
Convnntion in Los t\ngnles. lligh winds puslwd a brush 
Gore has missnd no occasion to !irl' in llw !wart ol' Llw Black 
dvvnll lovingly on thn roln family llills l\'ational Forest. north­
plays in his lifo. west ol" Custer. S.D.. t\xplodml 
"Tim woman I lov11, tlw moth­from :rn,ooo arn•s Oil Saturday 
n r of our four childr11n, thP to an l'stimatcd 90,000 on 
grandmotlwr of our grandson, Sunday. 
my wifo of :{O yoars, Tippnr," is FirPlightPrs wPre forced off 
a standard introduction. Ile lhal lirn's north side Saturday 
missPS no opportunity to pub­bPcaus1• the wind crcalnd 
licly dPclarn her ttrn low of his l"irPslorm conditions. Thrne 
lifo. and aides say vol!)l'S will outbuildings and a tractor 
see much mon• f"~icus on "an WPrt\ dcstroyl'd in tlrn sparsely 
adoring and caring family." st•ltlf'd region and two homes 
For any who miss the point, w1\r1• damagPd, officials 
Gorn undnrscornd it with tlw rnportt,d. 
The few penp!P in tlrn region wPrt• urgPd to nvacuatc an an•a ol' :mo sq uart\ miles, for­nst officials said. 
lingoring kiss lw µlantl'd 011 his wil'o after h1\ boundPd up tlw C011V('lltion slag(\ lo aCCl'pl. tlw I>nmocTal.ic nomination. 
Daughtnr KarPnna Corl' Srhif'f' said "thn kiss" didn't sur­prise, lwr b1)causn lwr parnnts an• affr.ctionatn in privatn. "That's just tlrn way tlwy arn," slrn said. 
Putting his family tins on dis­play also signals to votc•rs that tlwro would b11 no sP.x scandals in a Core Whitn Iloust\ and llw campaign plans to miss 110 opportuniliPs to mak!' that poinl. 
Mrs. Gorn will bn along for lwr husband's campaign swing this wnnk. Advisnrs also say tlw Gor1)s, and running maw Joseph Lidwrman and his wirP, llactassah, will campaign as a group "morn than you·vl' Sl'<'ll in pas! Plnctions." 
Tlw imagn will h1\ a d!'vol!•d family scnnc. 
But Corp's l'amilv sPrvPs as morn than a simt)IP prop to help portray him /IS a trustwor­thy family man. Sonw nwmlwrs hav11 i:rudal l)l'hi11d-tlw-sr.<'lll'S rolPs. parlil'ularly Tip1wr CorP. 
"Slw is without a doubt his top advisnr anri r.lospst f'riPml." said Lnhann. "Tlin !'ntirn familv plays a signif1canl roln in cam·­paign dndsions." 
For instanr.l', Gorn nwt all dav with top aidns in Nashvilln·. TPnn .. as lw pondPrPd tlw sPlection of a running malP. but brokn off dnlif)('rations to wail for his wifo. Within a rnupl11 ol' hours of' lwr arrival. tlH' dPc·i­sion was mad!'. 
Wlwn l lw campaign WP 11 l through a rough s1wll last yPar, slw was among thosl' urging it bP uprootPd and movPd to T1\nness1il', and that Core' rnlurn to a "I.own lllPPling" campaign l'ormal that sPrvPd him w<' II w hI' n lw was in Congn•ss. 
Slw isn't almw. 
Schiff, a Columbia I.aw Sd1ool gradual<' and 1ww motlwr. has takPn on tlw high-prol"ill' and rull-tinw job or motivating young"" votnrs. ShP also had !.hi• lask o/' h111111111izi11g (;ore• at lhl' l)pmor.ralic 1·011vPntion, dnsrrihing him in linr s1w1~rh as a doling l'allH•r and grandra­
Llwr. 
/\notlH•r daughte•r. 1,,:rislin. introducPd lwr mot.lH•r to lhl' gatlll'ring. 
1:or thosP who doubt lh<'ir rolPs, aidns nolP that Mrs. Core' introdun'd lwr lwsi>arnl to lhl' co11v1•11tio11 while' Sl'l1ilT 110111i­1rnt1·d lwr l'atlwr -both liigh­prol'ilP l"OllVl'll(io11 Sf)Paking 
slots. Tlw two arc• ,ilso sonwthing ol' a C'lilllpaign laf.( l<'Hlll. 
\\'lwn r>.trs. <;ore• IH•1·11111P ill and rancPIPd a ra111paign 11ppP;i1·a111·1• lust \\'t•1·k. Sl'l1il'f lillPd in. 
HrolhPr-in-law 1:ra11k I lungPr, a !"losn l'amilv l'riPIHI. is jHPSPlll l'or virtu:i°lly PVPI"\' import aIll dP1·isio11 :i net is ;, conslant travl'ling c:0111pn11i1111. 
'v\'lwn quPstions arosP aboul wlH'liwr tlw rountrv was l'P,Hlv l'or a .IP\\'ish ru11;1i11g mat,:, llungPr spokP up in his soft Soullwrn drawl to suggPsl that ma~·IH• tlw rountry ought lo lw 
rc•ady. Th;•rc' is al lnasl somP limit lo c;or.,·s l"orus on llw l'amil~·. 
howPVPr. 
\\'hill' llwrP lrnvP bPPn somP photographs or 1-vPar-old grandson \\'yalt, tlw ·ramilv is IPPry about 11ulti11g tlw tod;l!Pr 1111 display. 

Fir!' li1w.s along tlw mislr.rn sidf' of' tlw !Jlazcwcn• strnngth­Ptrnd du1' to a local role! l'ront. 
International Study Programs 


INFORMATION MEETING FOR SANTIAGO, CHILE With Bridget Green 
Do you find yourself up late studying? 
Student Returnees
Get paid for itfH Work for the Student Activities Office as a 
Wednesday August 30, 2000 
24 Hour Lounge Monitor 
318 DeBartolo 
Shifts: Sun-Wed 2am-Sam 
4:45 PM 
Thur 2am-7am. Fri-Sat 2am-Bam 1-2 shifts per week. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: October 1, 2000 for Spring 2001 
Applications outside Student Actvities. Room 315 LaFortune. 
Monday, Augusr 28, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
PHILIPPINES 
Muslim rebels free one hostage, hold 18 
Associatt'd Press 
JOU) 

Muslim rnbnls rrnnd a Soulh /\l"rican man on Monday, lnav­ing six rorPign<'rs and 12 fiilipinos still in gunrrilla hands 011 a 1·c,n10tc1 l'hilippinl' island. 
"I'm ovnr lhn 1110011" with happi111\ss. said South Arric:an Calli" Slrvdom. who had lwnn lwlrl captfvn sine<' /\pril. "It's a dillPrnnl world out hPrn." 
Strvdorn's wilh. Moniqun, was rnwcf Sunday by tlrn Abu Sayyaf' rPbPls. along with thrnl' Fnmch wom<'n and a (;nrnHtn man, af't<'r l.ibva agr<>11d to pay $1 million r;ir nai-11, 1wgotiators said. 
South ,\rriran Ambassador l.indiw,• Mabuza immcdia1.1\ly t11IPphoiwd lwr cmmtry's prnsi­dc~nt with LPars of' happirn1ss in lwr <WPS. 
''l'1i1 ,•rslatic," shn said. "It's rantastir." 
Tlw host.ig<'s wnrl' to b11 llown lat<'r rv1onclay to Tripoli to llll'Pt with l.ibvan IPadPr \lnammar (;adhah. Libya has long-standing tiPs to Muslim r<>lwls in llw mostly Cil!ho!ic l'hilippill<'S. 
Lib\'an 1\mbassador Salp1•m /\dani dismiss<'d allPgations that his 1·01111trv was trying to imprll\1' its fntPrnational imag,, hv bankrolling tlw ransom. "'i'his .is 11 humanitarian mis­sion, hP said. "It has 110 otlwr motivation." 
Strvdom was l'<'il'asnd dPspitr. a rdJl'I d1•111a1HI ParliN \fonday that 1wgotiators bring llwm two gu1·1Tillas arrc•slnd at a bank last wP1·k carrying bags of' cash I)(' ro r" tlw v r PI<' as<' mo r <' hoslagns lwid on n•motci .lolo ;,;land. NPgotialors said tlwy \\Tl'<' unablf' to lol'alt' tlw lwo 
arrost1)d guerrillas, who WP-re frond on bail Saturday. 
The cash is believed to be part of' ttw estimated $5.5 million in ransom paid to thr. r<)bnls for tlrn previous release of nine Malaysians and a German. 
Mo~t or thn fornign hostages werr, kidnapped April 23 from Malaysia's Sipadan diving rnsort. Tho Abu Sayyaf also sPiwd thrno French television journalists last month who wr,re ·cowring tlw hostag,~ crisis, and a dozen Filipino Christian 1wan­gPlists who visitnd Urn rnbnls' camp to pray for th1\ captiv11s. 
Tim rnb1)!s have insisted 
nalist. 
"My son is still thPrc. You don't expect me to be happy," Wallert said. 
The mood was much more upbeat later on a Philippine air force cargo plane that forried thn released hostages to the Philippine city of Cebu, where they spent Sunday night. 
They clinked cans of soda and wolfed down cl1ef1seburgers and pizza, their first meal sincr, Ioaving the rnbcl camp somn six hours r,arlirr. But mostly they talked on and on about their ex1wriences to diplomats and ml a lives on board the 

on frnning tlw "We're not happy plann. hostages in The former
because there are people
batchns to hostages and
le.ft behind. It's notfin­
avert any mili­tary attack. 
llowevcr, 1·.hinf' govnrn­lTI<)nt nngotia­tor Robert Avnntajado said a "global a g r 11 c m e n t " has -lrnnn rPachnd 
their ambas­

ished yet for us." sadors ignored the plane's
Marie Moarbes 
u ncom fort­

French-Lebanese citizen 
able seats 

for tlrn 
rdeasn or all thn hostages with­in two W<H1ks. 
1-'rnndorn was bittnrswer,t for tlw hostages released Sunday, most of whom wore simpln rub­lwr sandals and carried tlwir mnagP,r poss,issions in rice sacks when they nrnt their ambassadors all11r st1:pping off lwlicoptnrs in thn port city of' Zamboanga. not rar f'rom .lolo. 
"W(' ·rn not happy because tlwn• arr people 1(11'1 behind," said Frnnc:h-1.rbancsc citizen Marin Moarlws. "It's not fin­islwd yd. ror us." 
Tlw otlwrs frcod wore• Sonia vV1111dling of' France, South Arrican Monique Strydom, (;erman Wer1wr Wallnrt, and Marys,\ Burgot, a Fr,mch jnur­and its occa­
sional bumps 
and dips as they celebrated. Moarbes clutched a tnddy bear given to her by her father as the two talk1)d animatedly for the entire one-hour flight. 
Tlw Abu Sayyaf. Lim smaller of' two Muslim nibel groups in the southern Philippines, says it is lighting for an indflpendent Islamic state. Thn government insists the organization is a group of bandits practicing kid­napping and piracy. 
The rebels have bnen holding the hostages f'or months in a junglr, on Jolo. 580 miles south of' Manila. Still in captivity are one French. one German and two Finns kidnapped f'rom the Malaysian resort, two French journ[tlists, and the 12 Filipino evangelists. 

ENGLAND 
Di's memory lives on in eyes of nation 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Princess Diana's survivors have moved on. Three years after her dnath, Prince Charles has brought Camilla Parker Bowles out of' t h e sh ad ­ows, and Diana's sons are on the brink of adult­hood. They all remember her in pri­vate. 
Ilut many of the millions of people who had never met Diana, yet grieved her loss, still pay their respects in pub­lic ways. 
They visit Kensin_gton Palace and pose for snapshots at the ornate gates where a mourning nation 

h e a p e d "She was my inspiration. 
ing but pain

flowers 
I look at her picture when to those she
af'ter the 
left behind,"

I drive and I look at her
princess 
they said.

died in a car picture when I eat." 
Nor does

wreck Aug. 
the family

31, 1997, in 
Dale Kramer want to con­

Paris. 
done a
Princess Diana admirer

They still 
arrive by the busload at Althorp House, the Spencer family estate where Diana's brother, Earl Spencer, assem­bled an exhibition in her memory. 
In its third year, the exhibi­tion has had little pn~ss atten­tion, "yet the visitors are still coming," said Althorp spokes­woman Shelley-Anne Claircourt. ''It's really remarkable that the numbers are still so high." 
The opening day gathering this year. as in previous years, included some of 
look at her picture whon I cat." 
Kramer said he had bei)n at Kensington Gardens in London the day bofore for the inauguration of' a new play­ground built in Diana's mem­orv. The cwPnt receivod news coverage, but mostly bncause the royal family did not turn up. 
Buckingham PalacH said family members had prnvious public engagements. Prince William. 18, and Prince Harry, 16. had declined their invitation, "a very private and personal decision they madr for themselves." the palacn said. 
Prince Charles and his sons have made clear they do not w:ant to perpetuate publir grieving. 
Two days aftnr the l'irst anniversary, William and llarry appealed to the public to let their mother and her memory rest in peace. "Constant reminders of lrnr death can create noth­
"Diana 
industry," making money off her memo­ry. 
The river of books, vicloos and magazinP. stories may have abated. but thern is still no shortage of rr,ading mater­ial for the fans. 
The latest book, "Diana, 1ler Last Love" by Elizabeth Snrll, and an accompanying TV doc­umentary contendnd that Diana was in love with a Pakistani heart surgeon wlwn she died and that lwr yacht 


trip with Dodi FayPd was a fling to mah thr doctor ,i<'al­ous.

Diana's most devotnd admir-A couple of tabloids pickeders. 
up on the story, but it causedDale Kramer, 47, from Ohio, no sensation.

September 1 

Debbie Ballou (Professor of Management, UNO) 
told Tho Sunday Express that Britain's tabloids have facedhe had saved his earnings as
"Overview of Current E-commerce Issues" 
up tu tho need for new faces 

a restaurant table cleaner so 
to sell newspapers, with

he could be at Althorp on entertainers Victoria "Posh
September 15 David Overbeeke (General Manager E-business, GE Aircraft Engines) 
what would have been Spice" Beckham, Elizalwth
"Business to Business E-commerce" 
Diana's 39th birthday, July 1. 
Hurley and Cathnrine Zeta"She was my inspiration," Jones decorating the frontKramer said. "I look at her

Geoff Robertson (Vice President of Engineering, mvp.com) 
pages in steady rotation.
September 29 

picture when I drive and 1
"Starting a B2C Company" 
•

Michael Cullinane (Chief Financial Officer, divine interVentures)
October 6 

"How to Value an E-business" 
Beginner Jazz Dance :
•
• & /?o :
•
Rick Spurr (Senior Vice President, Entrust Technologies)
October27 

• 
"Internet Security Threats and Measures to Deal with Them" 
•• ·,/i't;(_·1~odern Dance· 
•
Colleen Sullivan (Dir. of Information Systems, Alltel Communications) 
• 
Classes Meet:Mond~ys'~/. 8: l 5pm-9:30pm
November3 

• 
•

"Data .Warehousing and Mining for Building Business Intelligence" 
Thursdays. 8: 15pm-9:30pm Activity Room 2 -Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
• 
• ·+,, 
•

Reuben Slone (Vice President of Global E-business, Whirlpool)
November 10 •• Information Meeti,;ig;sunday,JAugust 27, 2:30pm

"Supply Chain Management" 
• Activity Room.'l;]R&lftSport~'Rec{~tion Center
• 
,·,; ~t:tt)?:<(;··~·-••··.•. ·•. D':::,';­

Cheryl Fletterick (Manager, Pric:ewaterhouseCoopers) 
•
November 17 

"Conducting E-business Assessment" 
• Register in Advanc~ drg~cSporls -$'39' fee
•
• Sign-Ups Begin Monday, August 28, 8::00arn
•
Dr. Anatole Gershman (Director, Andersen Consulting) 
•
December 1 "Emerging Trends and Technologies in E-commerce" 
• Classes Begin Monday; September 4
•
• 
All lectures held from 10=4oam-12:05pm 
• No Experience Necessary. • ••
•
Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 
•
Notre Dame faculh, staffand students arc welcome to attend these presentations 
• 

VIEWPOINT 
O
rHE 

page 8 BSERVER Monday, August 28, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.l l. Ho;\ Q. Norn.· I>.1mi.·. lN 4(i5'5(, 024 Su111h llinrni: H.111. N"ire ll.1111t·. IN q<,1'iC, 
EDITOR IN CIIIF.f 
Mike· Cmmolh· 

MANAc;JNG EI)ITOfl 8lfSINF.SS MANAGf.ll Nor,·,·11 Cilbpi,· Tim Lrn,· 
AsST. MAN/\C!NG El'l1Hll1 Ot>l'ltAT!ONS MANAGER l :l11isti11c 1-.:r.,lv l\ri.in K,·ssl,·1 
NFWS EPITOR: A1111e M.irie Mmini;lv Vu·wrorNT EotTOR: Lil.1 l-l.1ug.hey S!'ORTS £mrmt: K"rn· Sm11h ScFNE Eorr<>R: Am.rnd.1 ( ;rem SAINl MA1n's EniroR: .\lolly ,\.1,Voy PIIOTO EDITOR: l'.lizalwrh Ling 
AllVl:RTISING MANAGER: !'at P~t,•r, All DESIGN MANAGER: Chris A,·iL1 SYSl'EMS ADMINISTR . .\l'OR: \•like ( :unviill' WUl AnMINISlRATOII: /\d,1tn Turner CONTROU.f.R: l\nh Wnnds G1u1•111Ci Elllnm: Jose Cudl.11 
CONTACT Us 

OmCJ, M~N,\Cl!RIGENF.RAI. lNf'O.............J,31-7471 FAX. __ ........ .6:\ \ .(,<J:>7 AflVIRl'I\INC: ... , .. ,-.. _ .... _..................(1.1l-(1'J00/8840 
nhs,·rwr((t\iarwin.cc.nd.c·du EDITOR IN Cmn...................................651-4';42 MANAGING EnlT0R/As,T. ME. ................63 I -4'i41 DLSINESS OFIKE ...............................6.\1-5.-\!j Ni:ws ......................................................... 63 l-'i.l2.l 
oh,crver.ob"m·ws. l@nd.ech, VIEWPOINT ...............................................J,J 1-5,l()J ohsc•n-rr.,·icwpoinc. l@nd.edtt ..................................... 6.l l-4'i4.l ohservcr.spons. l@nd.edu 
SCl:NI'.......... .................................631-4540 ohscrver.scene. l@nd.nlr, S,\JN f MARY'S............................................631-4324 
ohscrwr.,mc.I@nd.edu PltoTO.. .........6.l 1-8767 SrsnM_,/Wrn ADMINISrRAT0RL ..............(,J 1-883') 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

\lisi rnur W ch ,ite at htrp:llob,·,n,cr. 11d rr/11 for daih­t1pd.1tt'-' of<.:amplt, nt·,,·~. s~i-on~. fr-attires .tnd l1pinion rnltt11rn,. as 1wll a, c.mou11,. tc·virw, .md breaking news from ,he..· As~ori,1tnl Pu:ss. 
SURf TO: 
weather Im up-rn-tbc 
movies/music h.)r 
mimm.· foreca~,s 

wccklr srudenc revi<.'W\ 
online features l,,r ,pc­
adverti_,e tor polici~s 
,111d rare_, of prim ad, 
cial ec1111pw, covl'ragc 
;1nhives rn ~c.irch for 

about The Observer 
.midc, puhli,hcd ,11ie1 

ltl meet dit· cdirnrs ,md 
,1,itl
t\ugu,t 1'J'J') 
POLICIES 

J'hc \ lbsc·1wr i, tlw indq,rndmt. daily m·wsp.1pc·r puhli.,ll<·d in prinr and nnline hy the students of the U11iver,i11· ofNntrr n.1111c du l.;1c and S.1i11t Man.'s C:nllq;r. Editorial rnJm·nt. including .1Jwrriseme;irs. is 1101 gm·,·ml·d lw poli<-icc.1 of tlw adtninis1ra1io11 ni' either im1i111tinn. The ( )b,crwr reserve.< rhe right 10 rdi1se .1d,1t•rti~t'nll'llt~ ha."irt\ on rontl'flt. 
1h,· t1,w1 is repnrred .1., .,crnrardr .md ohjec1ively a, po\\ihk·. l'mignc-..1 tx!i1ori,1l, rq>rcsl'lll the opinion of rlw 111,1jnri1'· of die Fditor in C:hil'f. ,\l.111.1ging Fdiwr. A1,i<t.111t :,,tanaging Edi1nr ,incl dcp,mmcrn cdirors. Crn11111t:m.tri~·\, h.·ut:n .md -column~ pn:s,cnt thl' ,,.cws nf tlw .md,<11, .md m11 ""~"'"rily dmsc· ofTh, (lh"·n·,·1. 
Viewpoint ,p.Kc i, .t1·.1il.1hk-rn all readers. Tlw free ,·xp1,·"i11n ol.111 <>piniwt, thrnui;lt k·ncr, i, ,·nco11ragnl. I ,·11r1, to the· 1-.ditm """' he ,i~1wd ,111d must incl1uk !.:DllLH:t in!orm,uion. 
rJ11n1i"11.-rrg,111/i,1.f!. ()h,cn•,•1· polir,r< sh,111/tl /,,. rlirt'ct­trl r" ft/11", /11 C/ii,f.\lik( Co1111nlll' 

Glimpsing the future of e-media 
CA\'IBHIIJGE, l\1nss. 

Looking back from tll<' ynar 2010, it is <'asy for us to look at tlrn publishing industry revolution of the last decade and say that it was all inPvitahle and obvious. While smmi trends wer,, 
Kris Schnee 

drar at the time, no 
one in 2000 could 
have foresP1m all of 
the surprising inno-The Tech 
vations WP havn just witnnssed. 
.Just as a flawless factory-made clia­mond sells for less than a certified "natural" one. we've learned that no rncorcling can capture the Pxcitem1-mt of a live music concert. The Napster debacle of tlrn late 1990s sBemed like the doom ortlrn rm:ording industry. but it only forced big-name bands to go bark to doing what audiPnr.Ps lov<id bPst: playing for them in p1irson. unedited and impnrfoct. It meant your favoritP singers showing up at your town and actually needing your ticket money, not hiding in a recording studio somcwlwrn. MP:{s am hero to stay despit<1 the d11ath n!' the original · l'\apster sit,,, nspnrially abroad -it's cstimatl'CI that 'JO percnnt of' tlw music sold in the N1:w ChinP-s1: Republic is pirated. But bricks-and-mortar disc stores still exist. and still providfl some cash to Lim music industry. IL may be irrational to shop there whPn you can get tlw same songs for free on the Net. but wlwn has rationality (WN stopped anvorw'? 
No 01m saw in 2000 how laughably irn•levant most ol' thn "nlectronic book" concepts tlH111 on t.he market were. At thn limn. tlwrn wern sPvnral competing standards !'or Pll'ctronic publishing, all of tlwm poor. On the hardware side. them W(m1 "reacll'rs" with most or tl111 funrtionality or an ordinary book, only lwaviPr and much morn expensivP. In sol'tware, Steplwn King had just wlnased his first onli1w-only book. "Hiding tlw Bullcit," only to find that it was pirated within hours. whilP. Microsol't ex1wrinwnt1!d with "ClearTypii." a systPm m<'ant to make peopln nnjoy staring at their monitors f<1r hours to mad books. Tlin fact was that row poopln wantPd to use a com­putPr to road ii' tlwy <·ould just as woll usn papnr. Nor was tlrnrn much !~ro­nomic incentive for tho publi<' to switch to n-book readers, since publislwrs kPpt all tho Hxtra profit they mad<' f'rom not having to give tlwir <'UStonwrs a physical product. 
Tlw o-publishing marknt morP or IPss stagnatnd until tho technology improved, making the MetaBook possi­bln. Tlw M,itaBook was ingenious bPcause it was an imitation of tlw wood-pulp books everyon<~ was alrl'ady comfortable with -only with a spi1w f'ull of elnctronics and slick n-ink pagns capable of' rnarranging their own l<!Xt and then kneping it without using morn nlectricity. They were expensive. but you only IHWded one, and thn sarrilirns madn by llrn pioneers of n-publishing had crnated a small but rns1wctablc distribution systnm l'or nlectronic book li!Ps (EBFs) which rapidly grPw oncP MetaBooks appearnd. The dnwlopnwnt of non-transferable book licPnsPs !wiped protnct authors and publislwrs from Web pirates, but no security may ever lrn nnough; thus the strangP prP­scnt situation in which you can use• your high-t<~eh MetaBo;,k to rPad many old books. but l'airly f,,w 1ww OIH'S. 
In lhe last cnnturv. there wPri• "vani­ty prnsses" which ~cmld publish prarti­cally any book if tlrn author would pay l'or the service; their custoJTI!'rs \.\·Pr<' people who had books not good Pnough to narn a profit f'or n publishing housP. By tlw 1<)<)Os vanity presses had evolV!\d to takn advantagP of tlH' WPb; sitPs like FalBrain and ExLibris olTPrnd to publish any pnrson's no-frills book for l'rnt), proliting only from an Amazon listing and copies bought by till' author l'or his friends. (These "pulps," sine<' they nm also available as FBFs, makP up much ol' tho selnction of tPxts !'or MetaBonks.) 
Hncrn1tly we·ve seen a surprising I\Xtrn1sion of tlw "vanity pn•ss" movP­nwnt -with the widespread constru!'­tion of lilrnr-optic Net co11nnctio11s (already slightly obsolete). tlw world is now also dclugPd with amatPur tdnvl­sion programs. Formnrly limited in numlwr by FCC control ol' broadcasting fn•qucncics, telcvision programs can now lw mado availablo to tlw world l'rom anyo1rn with a camera or a good computer grnphics program. 
Tnchnology has unlnaslwd tlw vast, 
divnrsc, and f'r<'((ll!'lltly pornogr:1phir 
!Tnativity of' tlw AmPrican pPopl<'. 
Wh<'rP "publi!' tPIPvision" us<'d lo nwan an unkillablP govPrnmnnl TV IH11·1•au­_cracy, it now nwans 111illiuns ol' indi\'id­ual ('iliZPllS in amatPur show husi1H'SS, 
plus 011P unkillahlP gowr1111w111 TV 
bt1J'l\1llll'.rH('V. 
Onl' majo;· advantag<' of' ('-puhlishi11g 
rombi1wd with irnTPasing rnmputPr 
powPr is llw Pa SP ol' tra 11slatio11. l•:arly 
altPmpts al a11 011li1w "u11ivPrsal trans­
lator" lik<' BalH'IFish WNP harl'I\' sPr­
vicnabl<' f'or tPxt-to-tPxl languag;, trans­
lation, but 110w books (and <'vein audio, 
lo a11 PXLPntl ra11 hP transrrilH'd hv an 
ordinary desktop romputPr in mi1iutPs. 
TIH' MassarhusP\l.s l11stitulP 111' 
Terhnology MPdia I.ah rc•(·Pntly 
dPbutnd a rPal-1.inw voirP-lo-\'oirP 
translator; W<' can only hop!' that il will 
soon takP 1'1•\,·pr than l'our strong nwn 
to !'illTV. 
Tlwr;, an• a f'P\\. worric•s about t.lH' poW!'r ol' tlw 1ww nwdia, though. It's rumon•d that <·<'rtain rnu11tri<'s with stat.<'-run nwdia, having svvit.i:IH•d rom­pll'tPly to p)p1·tr1111ir l'ormats, 110w havP nmployPPS wlwsP job it is lo g,, hark and "<•01-rPrt" tlw rc•c·ords ol' historv. Sonw also claim that with llll' dl'lug<' of' rustomiz<'d. ultra-spPcializl'd nwdia. publishing is now PVl'll morp ruthlPss than in tlw past -ii may h!• Pasy lo g<'t your idPas publislwd. but how do you gPt attention PX<·Ppt by l>Ping Pxl.rc•m(• or viol<'nl'! /\nd what happ<'11s wlwn narh 1wrso11 S<Ti'Pl1S out ,tll nwdia 1101 in line with his or lwr own idPolog:,:. and dcH'S tlw same• f'or till' !:hildrc•11·' This is a world wlH•n• 11Pxt-d11or 1wigh­bors c:an find it impossible• to n•lalP to onn anollwr. \,Vhal do W<' do about ii'.' 
HP111Pmlwr to savP this issu<' 111' Tlw TPd1, .by tlw wav. As ol' 1wxt W<'<'k . SP pt. I.' 20 I 0, w·e lwgin publishing PxclusivPly in PIP<·tronir formal. 
This co/11m11 .firs/ a/JfJ<•ar<'d in lh<' .\fas.w1rhusetls lnstitul<' <d' 'frl'hnolo.<Jy 11<'11 1spap<'r. Th<' Tech. 011 i\11.<J. 2.'i. 2000. and is repreilll<'d h<'r<' 1·ourl<'sy <d' fl-WfUI:'. 
The Pie111s expres:·wcl in Ihis rn/11111n an· !hos<' rif'the author and 110/ 111•n•s­.'/((rify I ho.•w of' IhC' Oh.•wrt'<'r. 
DILBERT 
NOW OFFER SELF-SER VICE CONSULTING. 


SCOTT ADAMS 
E 

.;
0 <,! 
£ Q 
DO YOU
!i
.

@"' 
u 
HAVE A

g 
WRITE DOWN 
C 
" 

.,, 
1!; 
CARD?

"' 
'YOUR 5TR..ATEGY
~ 
•

0 
i

;i: 
C

AND I'LL SEND YOU 
& 
... 

MASSIVE BILLS. 
! " 

E 
0 
C 
:,

0 
t: 0 
0

(1) 
0 

J:l 
"' 
Ill

'o 
~ 
3: 
-;;;-0 

.. " ~ 
cir 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The basicfcu:t. <f loclay is the tremendous pace of change in lwman !Ur•." 
Jawaharlal Nehru Former Indian Prime Minister 
I WAS HOPING 
YOU'D PRINT 

SOME FOR.. ME. 
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 

Munday, August 28, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
Stranger in a strange land 
As I sit IH\rl' at my 1:ornputN. I one,• again <injoy th1• <!xciL1!mc11t and anticipation that I cxpcrinnccd at thn lwginning or my frcishman ynar. lksid(i me lay two suit­casPs Clotlws, slHH!s and a year's supply of sorks spill oul of' tlrnm. covPring most ol' my bedroom noor. I hav11 tuckt!d my passport. Travch'.r's Clwqunli and "Ll'.\s Co" trav11I book rwatly into my c-arry-on bag. har!ier lonighl, my PXtPnrlPd ramify ~atlwrPd at my hous!i l'or a !au• sumnwr lmrbPrtw lo say l'arnvl'II and good luck lo nm. Mv aunt and grandl'atlrnr told nw that thc~y had alrPad:,· plan1wd a lrip to visit m,, al school. Tomorrow I hoard 11 planP at 
JFK lnt.Nnational Airport bound f'or ,\uslriu. 
In 1·011trast to lwginning of last yPar. a grPat nnwunt ol' anxint~· tc>mpnrs my 1•11tllusias111 !'or the start ol' tlw school ~<'ilL Tomorrow. l depart. nnl onl} l'rom mv familv and childhood honrn, bul als1; l'rom tlw cultun• that def'i1ws my 1wrsonality, my b(Jids and my anions. I am ,\m1)rican and with nw. I carry lhP idnals, lh<' valuPs and tlw l'aults of' /\nwrican socintv. Mv wholP 1wrson PYid<'n1·ps my attal'l1rn,•nt tn /\mPric,in S(;ciPty. Tlw lalwls insid1• m.1· ji>ans and T-shirts bnar tlw nam,·s ol' storPs i11 AmPriran malls. I s1wak with tlw idioms and arr1•nls of an inhabitant ol' LIH' l!ast Coast. I <'njoy A11wrica11 musi,· and hum tlw twws of songs by Dav<\ \fottlwws Band and Billy .lrn•l. 
I l'par that with my lirsl stPp onto Austrian soil. I will find this ,\n11•rican natun• that I now pridn and 1·hnrish n1mlwrsonw. annoying and out ol' plal'n. For tlw first tinll'. l \\ill lw a f'or1•ig1wr. 
/\nd ~·pt al !lw sanw tinw. I r<'lish tlw opportunity to look at tlw world f'rom anotlwr pPrspP<'.tiv<). I know and _V<'t do not comprPliend that I lak,• llrn rhythms and pat­tPrns 11!' my !if'(' !'or grantl'd. I lwlic•v<) that thP culturP "shock.. that I will t\XpPriPnC(' can only servP to op1•n my mind and to frnn my lint) of thought from tlrn path lor. pPrhaps put morP aptly. tlw rut) that it now follows. I wait anxiously for tlw l'hatll'.P to drink in the bPauty of tfl{' art in Vinnna. FlorPnn• and France with my nyns. I await my first sight of' llw snow-cappNI Alps. I imaginn a 1·om·1•rsatio11 with a nalivl' i\ustrian that could forever chang<• m~• imagP of mys<'lf'. ,\ml I wondnr if a new. dif­l'<'rPnl 1wrson will rPturn to tlrn L:nitncl Statns mixt .lune. 
o,·.-r tlw nPxt y1\ar. I will sham my time abroad in Salzburg and lnnsbrul'k with 2:~ othnr studHnts. Each of' lhP partkipants of' tlw Innsbruck group possess(is diffor­tint goals !'or his or lwr tinw in Austria. The lnv1il of proli­c·ipm:y in <;,,rnrnn also vari1\s within tlw group, whkh, I lwlinvP. ,viii also !Paci tlw studPnts to havl' unique P111·ot111lPrs with Allstria and to form distinct p1!rspoctivos on llwir HP\\' surroundings. Tlwrpforn. I hopP to utilizn this column nol only as an oullet for my own thoughts and commPntary. but also as a journal of our PxperinncHs as a group. llop1'1'ully my artid,~s throughout thn year will giv<' stud1!nls 1:onsidc1ring a study abroad program a sPns1• or what tlwy \.\'otild 1)t1C'.ounter during the ynar or s,inwstPr away from campus. 
/\nd so. as I Pnjoy my last night in familiar surround­ings. I look forward to tomorrow. On a side land ironic) 

notP. I almost hit a nativ(\ G1\rman spoak1\1', a tourist in my town. with my bir:ycln today. /\s I rode b11hind hnr and thrt'I' fritinds. I yell11d, "Passing lnft!" I expnct()d her to lllOVP. hut inst.Pad slw stnppnd in rront or me. I had to swcrv(: off tlw path to avoid lwr a11d 111trrowlv missed an ill-positinnnd !lower pot that could havn snnt'nm tum­bling from my srntt. Annoynd, I wanted to rnbuke hnr for not obsr\rving propPr road ntiqunitn and moving asid<•. I thnn rPaliwcl lhal tlw conversation b1•tween the l'our of' tlwm was in (,1mnan. I rod1\ past without r.omment. In two days. I will occupy her place. 
The 11ie111s e:rpr<'sscd in this column are those of the author and not net:<'S!Wrily those of lhe Obsen,er . 
.loanna Miknlski is a sl1tdenf at Nolre Dame. She wilt bt• studying abroad in /lustria lhis semesll'f. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Setting the record on sweatshops straight 
A quote from Auron Kreider of the Progressive Student Allianr.e in the Saturday. Aug. 19, edition of the Observer implied that his organization put the sweatshop issue "on the {campus) agenda." The far.ts am that tho University's Liuinsing and Marketing Committee and, subsequently, tht~ Trusteos· Social Valuns and ResponsibilitiAs Committen discussnd the logo and sweatshop issue months before it was rais,~d by any campus group and months before it was a national news story. Thai is why Notre Dame was the lirst American col­lege or university with a code of conduct for its licensees -a code of conduct that preceded any campus discussion of sweatshop issues. 
The PS/\ continues to be a wnlcomc contributor to the dialogue about how the Univorsity most olfoc­tively lev()rages its licensing program to prcwr,nt workplace abuses, but it is important to n)membf)r thn correct local history of this dialogue. 
Richard W. Conklin 
Associate Vice President UniversiLy Relations August 25. 2000 


With the rPsumption of r.lasscs, we again sec an incrnasn in morning traffic on Bulla Road. If you have cvnr drivon along Bulla Road at 8 a.m. in the morning. you know what I am talking about. Please resist the temptation to gun it the last half mile to the campus after you escape the gravel mess on Bulla Road. 
For those that do not know it. ECDC (a child care center) is on the corner of Bulla Road and the edge of campus. Parents have in the past taken their small children to childcare by bike and will proba­bly continue to do so while the weather remains nice. A small child lives in Wilson Commons across from ECDC. Student and stalT pedestrian and bike traffic comes in from Campus View. Last of all, we graduate students in Fischer Graduate Residences have to navigate the corners of Bulla. Leahy and Wilson Roads. 
A new crosswalk has been painted across Bulla Road. (Thank you Officer Hurley.) However, we still have to go West, particularly across Leahy and Wilson, where campus drivers hang a left and a quick right, presumably to avoid the lights on Juniper Ave. When drivers are doing this at 25 miles an hour, it leaves pedestrians less than three seconds to figure out what the drivers are doing along this 150 feet of road. On a Monday morning with no coffee, that is a short three seconds. Pleasn drive safely, our health insurance is not that good. 
Jim Hogan 
Graduate Student Fischer Graduate Residences August 27, 2000 

Wo hoMewor(( vet? Looking for soMething, anything to do? Write us a (etter! 01>server.viewpoin+.1enrJ.edu 

O
THE page 10 BSERVER 
2000 EMMY AWARDS 


AFP Photos 
The cast of "The West Wing" (right) picked up four creative arts category Emmys Saturday to lead all dramas. The cast of "The Sopranos" was expected to challenge "The West Wing" for tele­vision supremecy but walked away without an award at the first awards banquet. The remaining 27 Emmys will be distributed Sept. 10. 
Round one to "The West Wing" 
on Saturday, giving the series 14 awards, followed by IIBO with
. NBC drama wins 
ammunition !"or its showdown 12. ABC and Fox nach rec11ivt1d 9four pre-Emmys, against thP mob drama "The trophies, while CBS rncPivnd 5. "Sopranos" shutout Sopranos" at thn main cp,remony "Tht1 West Wing" and "The 
nnxt month. Sopranos" each received 18 Brum Willis, Jean Smart, Beah Emmy nominations las{ month,By LYNN ELBER 
Bichards and James Whitmorn but the HBO show failed lo pick
AP Tdl'vi,iun \Vri{t'f 
received acting trophies for guest up any creative arts trophies. appearances on comedy and The series will compete heacl­
PASADFN!\., Calif". 

drama series. to-head in a half'-doznn categorinsNHC's Whitr• llousn drama "The Powered by "West Wing," which Sept. 10, when 27 Emmvs for act­\YPsl Wing" capturPd four Emmy hfrnds into its second season in ing, directing and writi~g will be awards in c-rt'ativP arts categorins 
lht' fall, :'IJBC captured a leading presented. 
Selected Emmy creative arts winners 
. Art Direction for a Mullicamera Series . Multicamera Feature Editing for a Series 
"Love & Money: Pilot, "CBS "Frasier: Something Borrowed, Something Blue, "NBC 
. Arti Direction for a Single-Camera Series . Main Title Theme Music 
"The West Wing," NBC"The West Wing:Pilot," NBC 
. Guest Actor in a Comedy Series

. Art Direction for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special 
Bruce Willis, "Friends," NBC
"Introducing Dorothy Dandridge, "HBO 
. Art Direction for a Variety or Music Program . Guest Actor in a Drama Series 
James Whitmore, "The Practice," ABC
"The 42nd Annual Grammy Awards," CBS 
. Casting for a Comedy Series . Guest Actress in aComedy Series 
Jean Smart, "Frasier, "NBC
"Freaks and Geeks, " NBC 
. Guest Actress in a Drama Series

. Casting for a Drama Series 
Beah Richards, "The Practice, "NBC
"The West Wing," NBC 
. Casting for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special . Animated Program (One Hour or Less) "RKO 281, "HBO ''The Simpsons, " FOX 
. Animated Program (More than One Hour)

. Cinematography for aMulticamera Series (two winners) "Walking With Dinosaurs, " Discovery
"Spin City. Goodbye" ABC "Sports Night: Cut Man," AMC 
. Sound Editing for a Series. Cinematography for a Single Camera Series 

"The West Wing," NBC "Third Watch: Welcome to Camelot," NBC 
. Sound Editing for a Miniseries, Movie or Special

. Cinematography for aMiniseries, Movie or a Special "The Hunley, " TNT
"Introducing Dorothy Dandridge, "HBO 
. Casting for a Drama Series. Commercial 

'The West Wing, "NBC
"The Morning After, "Nike 
. Sound Mixing for a Comedy Series or Special

. Costumes for a Series 
"Alley McBeal: Car Wash, "Fox
"Providence: Syd in Wonderland, "NBC 
. Sound Mixing for a Drama Series

. Costumes for a Miniseriers, Movie or Special 'The X-Fi/es: First Person Shooter, " Fox
"Introducing Dorothy Dandridge, "HBO 
. Costumes for a Variety or Music Program . Special Visual Effects lor a Series 
"Cher: Live in CancBrt -from MGM Grand in Las Vegas," HBO "The X-Files: first Person Shooter," Fox 
• Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Series . Special Visual Effects for a Miniseries, Movie or Special 
"ER: All in the Family, "NBC "Walking with Dinosaurs," Discovery 
Monday, Augusr 28, 2000 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Wayans' wife wants divorce: Till' wil',i of' nntPrtairwr Damon Wayans filPd f'or divorC't' to end tlin couple's I<>-year marriagn. 
Tlw Superior Court pntit.ion 11lnd Thursday by Lisa Wayans cited irrnconc:ilabln dilTnrnnc-Ps as thn rc~ason for tht' split and said 1111' c•.ouplP havP livnd apart sincP May 21. Slw liVf's in llw ,·ouplt•s Bnvnrly llills honw, and ht' livns in Santa Monica. 
Sim is sPnking spousal support. and joint n1s­tody of' tlwir four rhildr('n: Da1no11 .Ir .. I<,. Mirhiwl, 15, Cara Mia, t :{. and Kvla. {J. 
Wayans' movin crndits i11r.lutic• "B1:vnlv I !ills Cop," "l!oxannn." "Mo' MonPy," "Color~" and "Blank Man." · 

lln also appnarnd on "Saturday Night l.iVI'" and tlw TV rnrnPdy "In Living Color." whif'h brotlwr Knc\1wn Ivory Wayans rrnalNI. 
Academy blocks Oscar sale: Tlw l'olks who hand out /\cadPmy Awards want first crack at buying .Judy Garland's honorary Oscar, whif'h is now in Urn hands ol' a lllPlllorabilia d,,,dPr. 
ThP Acadt\tny of' Motion l'i1·tur<' /\rts and Sf'it•ncns. vigilant in protPrt.ing tlw Osrnr. fi11•d a lawsuit Thursday against Marcia Tyss1•ling. 
"Thn award is tarnislH'd -and tlw i111·1•11tiw to arhiPVP LIH• acadPmy's purposP is dirninislwd ­by distribution of' llw staluPllt• through rn111111t'l'­l'.ial nfforts rathnr than in rPcognition of' tTl'ativf' nffort." t!H' suit said. 
Tlw suit claims TyssPling isn't honoring a l'J:i8 agrnPlllPnt sig1wd by Carland that stalPs th<' acadP111y 111ust f'irsl lw givPn till' 1'11a1H·P lo buv back tlH' Oscar l'or $ I 0. Tlw honorarv Osrnr wa~ giwn to c;arland in I1J40. · 
Matierial girl battles Website: Madonna is lighting l'or llw lntPrnf't domain 11a1111' madon­na.,·orn. 
Tlw singnr has lodgc'd a rnmplainl \\'ith thf' UnitPd Nations. asking its World lnt,,Jlt•c·tual 
l'ropPrly Organization to ord,•r tlw handovnr of' tlrn sitP, ow1wd by NP\\' .l<'rsPy f'nlr<'prP1wur l>an Parisi. 
i\.nymw can nigislPr a domain rwnw f'or a f'c,,,. dollars. which has IPd rybPrsquatlPrs to lilP !'or l'amous namPs in orclPr to rnakP a l'ast buck -in somt1 casns millions. 
TIH' Wll'O syslPlll allm"s tlwsP who think tllf'y havn llw right lo a donwin to g,,1 it. ba,:k without having to light a costly IPgal bat.LIP. 
Parisi prnviously usPd llw Wnb sill' f'or porno­graphic malPrial but has now rt'lllOVPd it. IIf' 
claims Madonna, wlwsn f'ull nam1• is l\tadonna Ciccorw, has no morn right lo the' domain 1wnw than anyone' nlsn with tlw sarnP nam1•. 
"Wti do not lwliPvn that lwntust' '.\ts. C:i1'f'on1' nanwd lll'r aC't af'tPr till' Virgin Mary that givPs lwr tlw right to stop any otlwr party l'rom using t.lH' word 'madonna· as a titlP ol' tlwir w,~b sitP," lw said. 
Madonna's publicist, l.iz Hosf'nl)('rg, said shP thought Lill' singnr should light l'or llw domain nanrn. 
"Slw happnns lo lw tlw most f'amous Madonna in tlw world, so I think shP cnrlainly has t'Vf'ry 
right  to  try  to  protPc.t  a  W1di  ~it,•  l'al!P~I  
Madonna." slrn said.  
Gleason statue to be unveiled:  /\ larg­ 

nr-than-li f'P statuP of' .lackin (;lnason will gra,·p t.hn f'ront of' Nnw York's Port /\11thoritv bus tnrmi­nal. · 
"We'rn always looking f'or ways to bring TV icons back to tlw public," Hob l'dlizzi. TV I.and marht.ing vic:o prnsidnnt, told tlw Nt\W York l'ost in Thursday's nditions. "This was rnally a grnal honor lo litnrally put Halph Kramclf'n on a pndt)Stal." 
Clnason playnd Hrooklyn bus clrivn Balph Krarncfon in "Tlw I lorwyrnoo1rnrs." TV Land, tlrn cabin channel which airs Lim "Tlw I lorrnymoo1rnrs," commissioned thn 
8-foot-high, 1,000-pound sculpturn which depicts Gleason in a bus drivt1r~s unil'orm and holding a lunchbox. 

O
THE 

Monday, August 28, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
A Year of Shakespeare 
Notre Dame Film, Television and Theatre announces 2000-01 schedule with four plays written or inspired by the Great Bard. 
'vlorning Juliet)" is modNn tale that boys want to sleep with their mothers. plays that the Actors from thP. London 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
weaves together the Shakesp()arean In addition t.o the lessons in psycholo­Stage will perform for Notre Dame SccnL' 'X'rice1 
tragPd ies "Othello" anrl "RomPo and gy, "Oedipus" also offers the audience audiences this year. The group of five Juliet" into a comedy. Kathy Koch plays one of the best examples of Greek British actors will call Notre Dame 
Studnnts looking f'or a brnak from 
Constance Ledbelly, a scholar who is tragedy. The proud and successful King their American home this year and per­studying and rPality can cliscov(ir a 
transported into the worlds o[ "Romeo Oedipus finds his downfall when he form two plays in Washington Hall. In dramatic: journny into the\ world of and Juliet" and seeks the answers to addition to "The WintPr's Tale," the 
ShakPspnarc• this ynar at Washington 
"Othollo" with hilari-hb origin and hi:; Actors from the London Stage will kick IIall. ous consnquences. "We justfinished the parents. off the 2000 season in Washington Hall
2000-01

TIH• Notre· Dam(' "We just finished the read-through and every­While both "Love's with "As You LiRe It" on Sept. 14-16. 
Fi I m . Te' I,, vis io n theatre 
read-through and and These talented professionals will
one was laughing."

and Tlwa\rP t FTT) 
season everyone was laugh­"Desdemona" have bring Shakespeare's comedy to the cllqrn r t m <' 11 l w il l 
ing." stage manager been cast already, stage with just five people playing
. "As You Like It"

bring l'ivei 1wrfor-Sarah Ryan
Sarah Ryan said. "It's "Oedipus" won't be nearly 30 roles. Despite the frequent
111an('.<'S to Llw slaw· Sept. 14-16 
a little bawdy but a lot stage manager performed until the costume changes and dialogue by one this y<\,tr 1:rom lhn 
. "Good Night off'un." "Good Night Desdemona" spring and won't be actor playing many characters, the 
tragPcly ol' "Oedipus 
Desdemona (Good 'While "DesdPmon a" cast until January. plays arc not overly complicatPd
llPx" to th" light-may not be well-See the FTT home-at:cording to Barkes. 
11(\artnl colll()dy Morning Juliet)" 
known to most colleg<• stuctents. both page at www.nd.edu/-cothweb for "The whole mission of the Ar:turs 
"!;ood Night Oct. 4-8 
"Homeo and .Juliet" and "Othello" are more information. from the London Stage is to be goodIJPsdf'mona (Cood . "Love's Fire" familiar. Tlw nPw situation and settings Although "Oedipus" is a classic storytellers," he said. "If nothing else, 
Morning .lulif'l)." 
within those µlays makes "Desdemona" example of a tragedy. Shakespeare's people will have a really good under­
Nov. 15-19

noviu·s and tlwatrP an int<\rnsting play. "The Winter Tale" is actually a r:omedy standing o[what is going on." 
l'on1rnissl't1rs alike• . "The Winter's "I think it is a good play for pretty with some One actors will 1•11joy this 
Tale'· much everyone." Hyan said about the tragic ele-playing many:,·f•ar·s ol'f'Prings. 
Feb. 21-24 comedy that will be performed in ments. The "The whole mission ofthe Actors characters pre­
Tom Bark<'s. pro­
Washington llall from Oct. 4°8. "Most main charac­from the London Stage is to be good sents an inter­
l'e·ssional spncialist . "Oedipus Rex" people havl! read Romeo and Juli<~t so ter is seized esting dilemma
storytellers. If nothing else, people 
with tlw FTT 
Apr. 25-29 they are going to recognize a lot of with irrational at one point in 
nn1·ouragPs stu­will have a really good understand­
things." jealously and "As You Like It" dents to purchasn a Audiences might also be familiar with the play has ing ofwhat is going on." when one actor 
sPason subscription in ordnr t.o nnjoy somP or the lines in "Lovc·s Firn." many charac­must wrestle 
tlw vari(ity or stylns. 
Basnd on seven Shakespearean SOil· teristics of a Tom Barkes himself. 
"Th1! lwsl way to approach it is to gnt 1wts, modern American playwrights put tragedy but Juniors and
ITT professional specialist
a snason pass so you can se'P a lot of 
Shakcspcare's words into action on the ends on a seniors can 
typl'S ol' tlwatrn," Bark1\s said. "Tlw stag<'. Scvm1 different love sonnets each happy and save almost 50 more· you S<'<'. tlw lwtl.1)r you 11ndnr­portray a dilfornnt side of love N from comedic note. percent off the sta11d." 
passion and beauty to jealousy and Barkes, however, cautions not to single ticket price by purchasing a sea­Th<' 2000-0 I sPason has a distinct 
obsession. "Lov<''s Fire" opens Nov. 15 expect to be rolling in the aisles laugh­s on subscription. For just $28.75,
Slrnke•s1warPan int'luPncn. Two of' thn 
and runs through Nov. 19. ing at "The Winter's Tale." upperclassmen get tickets to all five 
p Ia~ '.'i. .. :\ s You I. ik (' It" a 11 d "Th P 
"Dcsdcmona," "Love's Fire" and "It's not a laugh-out-loud comedy," performances. Freshmen and sopho­
\\' i11 t c r · s Ta I<' .. w n r !' w r itl n n by "Oedipus Hex" will all be performed by he said about the play that will run mores can also purchase a season sub­Sh a kn s p I' a r" w hi I I' tv, o o tlrn r p I a y s 
students. Freshman psyche majors may hb. 21-24. "It's part comedy and part scription for $33.50. Contact Barkes for 
\\'<~r,• i11fluP1H·n by tlw Crnat Bard. 
want to check out "Oedipus Hex" to fig­tragedy." more information on subscription
"(;ood Night Dnsdl'mona (Cood 
ure out why Sigmund Freud thinks "The Winter's Talc" is one of two plans. 

.... 
-"Gladiator." JJeBartolo 701, 10:30 p.m. $2 admission 

-
.... 
page 12 
GOLF 

Bad lVeather delays amateur title playoff 
Sl'HINGFIELD. NJ. 
It look all dav for James Dris(·oll to nrnkn" a r,ouplr of putts in his mat('h with Jpl'f ()uin1wy. 
Bl'nHJS(' or thaL. thP 100th US AmatPur had to wait anoth­Pr day to crown a champion. 
Staging a comPbark worthy of Tiger Woods. Driscoll won the lin1tl thrf'I' hol1•s of rngulation to fnrrP a playoff with (.)uinnny br•l'on• a s1•c:oml thrt•at ol' bad wrathPr suspPndl'd play St1ndny aftPr 38 holrs. 
"l just wislwd WP could have finislwd it toni~ht." Driscpll said. "Not bnraust> l might have had thP monwntum. but just to gPt it ovPr with tonight would have br1•n bNtPr." 
()uinnny, of' EugPni'. Orn.. and Driscoll. ol' Brookliiw. Ma!-is.. wf'n• to t'l\sunw thP till!' malr.h al th~ par-3. 193-yard 3rd hol!! on tlw Uppnr Course al Baltusrol Col!' Club at 9 a.m. Monday. Both parn•d it twicf' 
Sunday. 
Driscoll. wlrnsn pultnr had failPd him n•pPatPdly ovnr tlw first 34 holr:s or thP schPdulc;d :{6-lrnl(• rhampionship match. madP a sliding 8-footn ror bird iP al l h,, 1 7 th and t lw n nai!Pd a ;,-foolPr for par at 18 to win thP ho!1;s and SP1Hl tlw matrh to I\Xtra holl's. 
Tlw 22-vr>ar-old UnivPrsitv of" Virginia g;·aduatP said lw n,:vnr l'orusPd on all his 1war missPs, knowing 0111• mon' wot1ld givn ()uinm,y thP rhampionship. 
"Part of' 1111' might havn brwn thinking dP.Pp down that I was duP to holf' a putt, but as soon ,L<; you say that you're not going 

to makr thn putt." Driscoll said. "You have to go through the samn routinP and hop,, it works out." 
It did. 
"I just didn't finish tho job." said Quinney. a 21-yr.ar-old who will bt\ a senior al Aril'.ona State. ''You know I bogeyr:d I 6 and 18. missrd tho fairways. I'm trying to kf't\p my hnad high. I'm still in th1irP. This is not oVf'r with." 
Woods rallied from 2-down with thrcP. to play to be StP.ve Srntt in the 1996 Amatmtr and ralliPd from 4-down with 10 to play to bf'at Trip Kuf'hnl' 2-up in 1994. 
Going to :19 holes guaranteed (}uinncy and Driscoll will tic the 
U.S. Amateur rPr.ord f'or the longPsl litlP matrh. Sam Urzetta beat Frank Stranahan in 39 holes in 1950. 
Going nxtra hohis was lhf' last lhing anyone expectrd after ()uinncy. who had staged impressive wnrnbar:k wins in the third round and tlw 4uart,ff­linals. madn a short 2-footPr for par at tlw par-3 15th to go 3-up with thrPe to play. 
llownvPr. Driscoll, turned the tables on him much to the ctr.light of' his f'amily and rela­tivns who shoutPd "Way to go .lanrns" aftpr ewiry big shot. 
"I 1wver really thought I had blown it bncausP. the match was 1wvcr over," Driscoll said. "But I was dr.linitl'ly disappointed." 
/\ bad drivP and chip cost ()uinncv No. Hi. and Driscoll won llw· last two holPs. 
Driscoll actually hit two grPat shoL'i at th<' par-5 17th. r,oming out of' a bunker from 50 yards to about 8 fent and making tlw birdifl. ()uinnpy had alrnady bnr;n concedPd a par. 
The Observer . SPORTS Monday, August 28, 2000 
U.S. OPEN 

Gambill eager to shine in tourney 
A.sociatcd Press 

NEW YORK 
Whrn Pl'tc Sampras dubbed .lan-Michanl Gambill thn future of t\nrnriran mPn's tl'n­nis artnr a tough quarterfinal match a.t Wimbledon. it was a romplim1:nt that could bn taken different ways. 
!;or thn 2:1-year-old c;,un bill. it rould havn bern an honor or a burden. From Sampras' point ol' view. it could bl' n1ad as a r.omm1~nt that the fulurn may or may not be bright. 
As thn U.S Opr.n bngins Monday. Gambill hopes hr. will show that he is niady to live up to thr most optimistic intPr­prr.tation of Sampras' remark and build on thn confid<mcn hr. gained al Wimbledon -his bPst Grand Slam r.ffort so far. 
"This is thP biggest tourna­mrnt ror nw. and rm looking forward to having a grnat U.S. Op1;n." Gambill said. 'Tm steadily improving ,wcry lour­namr.nt. and I'm rnadv to win some big matdws." · 
Gambill IP-1tcls a tid(~ntcd, if somewhat anonymous. group of young players trying to broak through with tlrnir first Grand Slam titln. Hussia's Marat Sal'in. Spain's Juan Carlos Ferrero. Ecuador's Nicolas Lapcntti, Switzl'rland's Hognr Fr.dPrcr. and GPrmany's Tommv llaas and Nicolas Kiefor ;di arc capabk of' beat­ing playPrs likP Sampras and dnfending champion ;\ndrn Agassi on any given day. 
\Vhetlwr any of them can go on a tear and win s1w1~n matches ovnr the next two wncks remains to be s1:Pn. 
If the womPn's titln chase appears to be limitPd to a 
''This is the biggest tournament for me, and I'm looking forward to having a great US. open . I'm steadily improving every tournament and I'm ready to win some big matches." 
Jan-Michael Gambill professional tennis player 
rnthnr srl,•ct fow -V<>nus and SPrrna Williams. Martina llingis. Lindsay Dav,•nport and Monica SPlrs -tlw nwn 's litln this year SPc'ms murh mon• up for grabs. 
Neithrr Sampras nor Agassi havr been dominant on hard­courts this sumnwr. and at 21J and 30. respcctiVPly. tlwy may bti a bit morP prnssPcl to ropn with tlw hPal and humiditv and day and night matrlw~ than their youngn rivals. 
For Gambill. a nativP of Spokann. Wash .. tlw issut' could conw down to how well hr maximizns his strr\nglhs and minimizes his wPak1wss­
f'S. 
ll<' rnadwd tlw final at l!w ATP Tour r.vcnt in l.os ;\ngPIPs al llw end of .lulv. but had to rPtirn in tlw third sf'l against Michael Chang af'tPr spraining an anklP. 
IIP phtyPd lwo Wl'Pks laLPr. losing to Kil'i'<'r in llw quarlPr­finals al Washington. and l'PII to Carlos Moya in a tu1wup last WPPk. 
"My SPrvc prPtty murh dri­ves my ganw." Cambill said. "I hav11 lo concr1ntratc on doing llw fundamnntals -sPrving W<'ll. returning WPIL I'm play­ing smartnr tnnnis latPly. not making tlrn dumb mistakPs I used lo makP. Mv dad has always bcPn my /oarh. and wp'vp bP!'n working hard to smooth things out... 
Although c;ambill was part of th,, ,\ nw rican l>avis Cup loam that got blast(id !i-0 on clay in Spain last month, hP said the opportunity Lo work with captain ,fohn Mcl•:nro,, improwd his ganw. 
"John lwlp1•d nw a lot on my volll•ying." Cambill said. "I'" told Ill(' to nrm up right b,·f'orl' I hit tlrn ball. My vollP_ving has 
bnPn improving. and it's adcfrd a dinwnsion lo my ganw. I'm still not a sPrvP-ancl-voliPv playPr. but I havr' mon' ronlf­dPnci-now wlwn I ,·om,, in." 
Thi' hard<'ourts al llw National T<'nnis Cr)ntPr ar<' a<"tually pPrl'Prtly suitt'CI to a playPr lik1\ Ciambill. Th1•y·r" quirk Pnough to givP him an advantagP on his s<'rVP. but not so quirk that LIH'Y put a high JH"Pmium on rushing thl' n'<•l. /\gassi won h<'I'<' twi,·p l'rom thP basnlin<', l'atriC'k llal"tr•r won twit'P by allacking t111' ,wt. an cl Sam pras w o n !'our limPs by doing Pvnry­thing. 
II' (;ambill is going lo join tlwm as a rhampion. h<''II havP to PllllliatP Sampras. llf''ll also havP lo gPl past som<' <'arly lroublr'. l.ooming in l ht' s Pc on d round is Australian Mark l'hilippoussis. tlH' harc!Pst Sl'rVPr in Lill' ganll' and a f'inalist lll'r<' two ~Pars 
agf>. 
In tlw i'Patur!'d malrlH'S on tlw lirst day. Sampras. Ilingis. and /\ranlxa Sant"!1P1.-Virario play in tlw af'tPrnoon. and /\gassi itnd Vnnus Williams play al night. 

The Observer accq>rs d.issifinls ,·wry hll.,inl'.,., d.1y from Ha.111. r<1 .I 11.111. ,It tlw No11·,· I).1111,· office. 024 South Dinint( Hall. Dea,lline for nt·xr-d")' d,i,sifit•d, is j p.111. Al d1.ssifil'ds 11111st h,· prq,.1id.CLASSIFIEDS The ch.uge is j ccnrs per ch.irancr per ,lar, indudi11g .,11 spaCL·s. The Ohser\'er rt·,nn·s d1L· rid11 "',·dit ,11! das.,ificds for conrrnt wirhour is.suing rt-f1111,k ' 
ND Prof and wile seek babysitter in  In-Home B&B  River Isle exc. Condo on the river in  Help!  I need 6 tickets to Purdue lor  Football ticketsNI want to purchase  
WANTED  our home T-TH 9 AM-1 PM (later ii possible). 3 great kids, aged 7 mos  FB wknds ­Some w/tix.  sleep up to 8  Mishawaka. Beautiful view of the fiver from living room, dining room.  family.  Call Marianne at 4-0523  4 tickets to the Slanford game on October 7th.  
lo 5 yrs. Experience/references  2 mi N of ND  kitchen and bdrm. Also has swim- FOR SALE:  
required. Please calf 631 -3654 or  219-277-4759  ming pooC pier. sauna, exercise  STANFORD, AIR FORCE.  
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­MENT CENTER  email meissner.1 @nd.edu  Two Bedroom apartments for lease  room and clubhouse. Call Frank 299-1909  BOSTON. Cheap.  PERSONAL  
PAID & VOLUNTEER OPPORTU­ 2000-2001 year. Also leasing aparl- Jack 257-1141/674-6593  654-0168  
NITIES Earn money and build resume expenence while interacting with delightful young children. The Early Childhood Development Centers at  FOR RENT CONDO FOR RENT 2 BR & 2 BATH, W/0, DISHW, MICRW, FIREP, CLUBHOUSE,  ments/ houses for 2001-2002 year. Dave 291-2209. Furnished 1 bdrm apt in good resi­dential area. 10 min drive from NO. Walk-in closet, storage area. park- Gold 3-cushion sofa, $200; oval coffee table, glass top, $75; cur­lain/drapery rods. $35 for all; 3 round lamp tables, $40 ea; wing chair, $75; TV table, $20. Can be  WANTED NO FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280 SELLING  I need your help' I'm a '92 ND grad and lost my year­book in a flood. If you know anyone who has a '92 yearbook and would not mind parling with it. please call me at  
Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame are cur­rently accepting applications from college students for part time  SWIMMING POOL. WALK TO CAMPUS; GRAD OR FACULTY ONLY 273-6378 OR 219-482-2714  ing space. $400/mo. $250 deposit. Postgrad student or faculty only. No smoking. no alcohol. No party. Call 277-0189  seen at 17675 Cobblestone Ct Call 277-1639. TV, VCR and MICROWAVE  NO FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 VICTORY TKTS  830-772-5956 or email at ~Qlill(: !!1!!~ ming::;pring.~Qm Thank you, Cristina Ortiz  
employment positions.  All excellent condition (VCR brand  BUY'SELL "TRADE  
The hours vary, including MWF 8-9 a.m. and MWF 11 a.m.-1:30 p.m.  SOUTH BEND LODGING In-home B&B lodging for football  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS  new), must sell this week. Call Peter, 251-0815, or email adam- ND FOOTBALL 232-0964  hey how does T get a guy to fall for her?  
If you are interested in applying,  games & ND-SMC events. Close to  http://mmmrenlals.homepage.com/  son.4@nd.edu  www.victorytickets.com  
please contact Kari Allard. Program Director at ECDC-SMC, at 284­4693 or Thayer Kramer. Program  campus Breakfast included. Call 219-243-2628 or garyb@mvif­!age.com  email: mmmrentats@aol.com 232-2595  Condo-townhouse 2 bdrms. 1 1/2 bath w/fireplace. All  Need two tix to NO vs. W. Virginia, Saturday, Oct. 21.  just stick out those boats and down he goes  
Director at ECDC-ND. Jor more intormation and an appticat,on.  3 bdrm apt. home at 616 E. Howard  Apartment for rent NO Football weekends  updated Must see. Mid $70s. Call 219-291·8601.  Please call 613-969-3339.  giggling all the way  
The Early Childhood Development Centers are also looking for volun- St Available immediately Walking dis­ 2 miles from stadium. Parking pass included.  SPRINGBREAK 2001  BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911  you can call me superman  
teers who enjoy young children. If you would be inlerested in spend- lance to campus, accessible lo public lransportalion. $500 ea. Sec.  Sleeps five. Call 243-0791 for info.  Hiring On-Campus Reps SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH. GO  ALWAYS BUYING  butter me up cause I'm toast  
ing two hours a week reading chil· dren's bOoks, building wilh blocks,  Dep. Of $250 ea. Call 289-9484.  2BR, 2nd fir. Apt 525/mo.Along St.  FREE! Student Travel Services  NEBRASKA 271-9330  hold the jelly  
and singing songs with children,  Joe River tnclude. Water/Sec.  America #1 Student  sean chris and kevin  
please contact ECDC-ND  N.O. Rental  Syst./Trash 288-2654 or 288-2788  Tour Operator  TICKET MART  
....  at 631-3344  Lakefront home on Magician Lake  Jamaica, Mexico,  BUY /SELL/TRADE  three musketeers  
or ECDC-SMC at 264·4693.  available weekly. or lorwknds. 3  Bahamas, Europe,  ALL GAMES  
Officials needed for Baseball. Slow and Fast Pitch Softball. and Flag  bdrms, 1 1/2 baths, deck, screened in porch This home is nicety furnished and  FOR SALE  Florida 1-800-648-4849 www.gospringbreak.com  271-9330 ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  you better make it out here in one piece  
Foolba". This is a great opportunity  overlooks a beautiful lake and 1s  99 VW Beetle GLS, dk. Blue, 5-spd  A.M.-232-2378  canada sounds like a bad idea  
to earn good money. Contact the  close to Indian Lake Goff Course.  manual trans, 6 CD changer, air.  P.M.·288-2726  
RecSports of11ce (Peter Shoop or Jelf Walker) @  Also in the area are many apple orchards ready for picking. This  alloy 16' wheels. 12,800 miles, exc. Cond. $16,300. 219-258-4454  TICKETS  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  L -no soap while I was gone right?  
631-6100, or stop by the office in the Rolfs  home will sleep 6 $350 weekends.  Beautiful brass bed, queen size.  BUSINESS MAN NEEDS  A.M.-232-2378 P.M.-288-2726  I hope not. No breaking promises  
Sports Recreation Center today. You can also e-mail us at rec­sport@nd.edu.  $850 weekly. 630-964-6620 616-424-3246  with orthopedic mattress set and defuxe frame. All new, never useo. still in plastic. $235.235·862-2082  Nebraska tickets or season G.A. only. 277-1659  NEED: Three tickets to Texas A&M for family. Call John, 4-2795  Shout out to greasa. she's so skrinchy. goodnight.  

----------------------------------------~--------­
---------------------------------------------, 
Monday, August 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Klesko gives San Diego 2-1 edge over Milwaukee 
. Brewer's Snyder remains winless since June 
As'ioriatcd Press 
MILW!\l.JKl!I! 

llyan KIPsko's run-scoring sin­gl" in Lhn tdghth inning lilted tlw San IliPgo PadrPs Lo a 2-1 victo­ry nvc•r Milwauk1H' on Sunday. 
/\flpr slarl<'r John Snvchir lwld San l)if,gn to just thn:P hits in sPvPI1 s(·or(•lPss innings, LhP l'adn•s rallied against rnli11vnr David VVPatlwrs 1:{-:i) 1n thn c•ighll1. 
l'inrh-hittPr .John Mahry walkPd with one oul and advan1·pd to sc•1·011cl on Eric O\\'!'ns' sing!,, ()Psi HPlal<,rd fol­lo\\Pd with an HBI single to lnl't to lit• the g11 Ill!' al 1 . 
Val1·rio lk l.os Santos rnlinvcd \V1•allwrs and gavl' up Klnsko's s;inglP lo IPf't. scoring OwPns. A!'tc-r an inli•ntional \.Yalk lo Phil NPvin. Miki' l>arr boLIIH'<'d into an inning-Prnling clouhl<• play. 
\\'oody Williams {8-;il allowc·d on,• nri"1 and six hits in SPVP!l i1111i11g:,;. II(' :,;[ruck out f'our. l'rnvor 11011'1111111 pit.dwd a hitl"ss ninth l'or his :1:ith savP in 42 lrit'S. 
!\lilwaukf't' wast.Pd a lirw prn-­l'ornrnrn·p In Snvdc•r, who has nol won sin;·c• .l;llw 22. SnvclPr rPtirl'd tlw first 10 haltl•r; lw for<'d and did not allow .a hit until ,\1•vi11 's s;ingli• in tlw fourth. 
\1ihrnuk1•p took a 1-0 IPad in thf' l'irst. \\'ith two outs, (;Poff .IPnkins singlPd and srorc·d on Birhi(• SP.xso11·s cloublP to right­<"1' Ill<'!'. 
Rockies 9, Pirates 2 
Todd IIPlton hom(•rPd and cloub!Pd to up his il\'Prag1· to .:l')4. and Hrin n Bohanon backPd his own olfoctivo µitching with a two-run douhlP as Colorado fin­ished a three-game sweep of Pittslmrgh. 
Bohanon (8-9) allowed four singlos in his l'irst complnto game sinr:C' Sept. 3 against thP New York MP.ts, and had two hits as thn lfockies outscored tlw Piratns 2fi-9 in the sr.ri11s. 
llnlton was 2-for-4 and had liiur hits in thn linal two games of the Hocki<'s' first three-game road swnep since they started Urn 1998 s(iason by sweeping Arizona, yd still raised his avcr­agn only iwo points. 
llclton, trying to become the first si111'.n Tod Williams in 1941 to bat .400. must bat about .4:~o over th1'. Hockic;s' final :n gamns Lo rnad1 .400. fir, is hitting 4:~2 1:i4-for-125} over his last 34 games. 
Bohanon is doing evnn better than ihal over his last lhrne starts, going 6-for-12 with two doublPs, a homN and six HB!s. I lo had the Hockins' kev hil Sunday, a two-run double· in fl go-nhnad thren-run second against l'irulns starter Dan SPralini n-:~, 
Bohanon also singlnd following Butch Iluskny's hom1ir in the fourth. one of thrnt\ solo shot<; by a teGm wlrnsP 128 homers are the S(Wond-l'ewnsl in the NL. I !Piton hit his 32nd in the fifth olT rookie• rclicvnr Bronson Arroyo. and Jeffrey Ilammonds follownd with his 20th. 
Orw day after manager Gene l.amont lwld a closnd-door mePt­i n g to nmphasizc' th!' Piratns nu1·t givP up tlw season, thny lost tlwir fourth in a row and I:{th in 17 gamns: They will lose l)() ganws for llw sncond time in tlm•p ynars even ii" they wi11 20 of' tlwir final 34 games. 
lluskny, who also singled in tlw thrnn-run second. and Jfon 
Chicago Brass Quintet 

Petric;k added sacrilke f1ies in the sevi>nth against reliever Marc Wilkins. Petrick and Jeff Cirillo each had thrne of tlrn Rockies' 16 hits. 
Serafini allowed four runs and eight hits in '.i 1-3 innings as a Pirates starter failed to pitch past the sixth inning for the 18th time in 24 gamm;. 
Astros 7, Expos 3 
Tony Eusebio doubled twice and hit his seventh homer to extend his .earner-best hitting streak to 23 games and Scott Elarton pitched his second career complete game as the 
llouston  J\stros  beat  the  
Montrnal Expos 7-3.  
Elarlon  (15-4).  who  also  

pitched a complc~tn game against Montreal on Aug. h, allowed six hits, including Brian Schneider's two-run double in the sixth, and sPvnn walks. He struck out six. 
Moises Alou went 3-for-4 with his 25th homer off Trev Moore (1-4), a two-run shot dciwn the left-field line as llouston scornd four in the fourth. 
EusPbio doubled following Alou's two-run homer to tie the Astros' team rfJcnrd by hitting safely in his 23rd consecutive gam~. lie added an RBI double in the lifth and hit a solo homer in the eighth to make it 7-2. 
The Astros ,,von for the 10th timn in their last 13 games. 
'.vtontreal has lost 14 of its last 17 games, including five of its last six. Tho Expos have lost 14 of their last 16 games at Olympic Stadium. 
JefT Bagwell got his 31st RBI in August on a run-scoring grounder in the first to tie the learn record he already shared with Derek Bell for most RBIs in a month. 
Roger Cedeno and Julio Lugo singled to lead off the game. Cedeno advanced to third and Lugo went to second on Trey '.'vloorn's ,balk and Cedeno swred on Bagwell's grounder to sec­ond. 
Richard llirlalgo's pop to short right lield was caught by second basmnan Jose Vidro, who threw home, where Schneider easily tagged out Lugo trying to score from third for an inning-ending double play. 
Ainu was also thrown out at the platn by center fielder Milton .Bradlcv to encl the second. 
Bag~·ell walked in tho fourth and, one out later. Alou home­red down the left-field line to put the Astros ahead 3-0. 
CodPno added a two-run single later in the inning as Ilouslon 

The Office for Students with Disabilities is looking to hire students for the following position: 
Student Aide: This person(s) will help a Notre Dame student travel to events on campus. Evening hours weekdays and weekends. 8-10 hours per week. $10.00 per hour. 
If you are interested, please call the Office for Students with Disabilities at 631-7157. 
\\.ent out to a 5-0 lead. 
After Elarton escaped a bases­loaded jam in the fifth by getting Jose Vidro to fly to left, Schneider doubled to drive in two and break up Elarton·s shutout bid. 
Milton Bradley had an RBI sin­gle in the ninth for Montreal 
Marlins 7, Reds 6 
Mike Lowell homered with one out in the bottom of the ninth inning as the Plorida Marlins overcame five RBIs by Dante Bichette to beat thn Cincinnati Reds. 
The Reds, who had won threp straight, blew a 6-3 lead in the eighth inning a stranded a sna­son-high 14 runners. 
Lowell hit his 18th homer on a 3-1 pitch from Danny Graves (10-5) as Florida snapped a three-game losing streak. · 
Dan Miceli (6-3) pitched a scornlcss ninth for the win. 
Florida tied the game with three nms in thn eighth inning. Lowell and Derrek Lee singled, and pinch-hitter Mark Smith fol­lowed with an RBI double. The Marlins· made it 6-5 when third bas1-nnan Chris Stynes bobbled Kevin Millar's grounder for an error. Luis Castillo's grounder deflected off Stynes' glove for a game-tying single. 
It was just Castillo's 10th HBI of the year. I-le is trying to avoid the major league record for fewest HBis in a season for a player with at least 450 at-bats. San Diego's Enzo llernandez set the rncord with 12 in 1971. 
Cincinnati shortstop Barry Larkin left the game after dislo­cating the middle linger on his left hand batting in the fifth inning. X-rays were negative and his status is day-to-day. 
Bicheite hit a three-run homer, sandwiched between a disputed ruling and a bench­clearing confrontation, which put Cincinnati ahead 5-:~ in the seventh inning. Bichette also Imel an RBI single and a sacrifice fly. 
Hyan Dempster took a 3-1 lead into the seventh, but came unraveled following a disputed call on an attempted forceout at second base. 
Umpire Jan Lamplugh ruled shortstop Andy Fox pulled his foot o!T the base prematurely on Ken Griffey Jr.'s grounder, although replays showed other­wise. 
After Marlins manager John Boles argued briel1y, Scan Casey singled home a run and Bichette hit his 16th homer. his first in 110 at-bats, to put the Reds ahead 5-3. 
On the next pitch, Dempster hit Michael Tucker in the back with a pitch, aiid both benches emptind when Tucker started toward the mound and shouted at Dempstor. No punches worn thrown and no one was ejected. 
Florida's Preston Wilson made the score 1-1 leading off the fourth with his 22nd horner. It was his first homnr in 36 games and 140 at-baL'>. 
Thr, Marlins scornd twice in the sixth to take a :{-1 lead. l\fter Henry Hodrigucz doublncl and Wilson walked, LAI! singled home a run and Mike lfodmond hit a sacrifice lly. 
Griffey Jr. made a circus catch in center in the second inning to rob Fox of· a hit. Sprinting to his right. Griffey jumped and stretched horizontal to the ground to make the grab. 
Mets 2, Diamondbacks 1 
Mike Hampton tossed eight strong innings and Todd Zeile's seventh inning grounder drove in the winning run, as tho Now York Mets downed the Arizona Diamondbacks in a pitchers duel at Sirna Stadium. Benny Agbayani homered for the Mets, who rnboundrd from a 5-1 loss on Saturday to take two-of-three in the series. New York is now one-game behind Atlanta in the NL East, as the Braves lost to the Cardinals. 
The Diamondbacks arc three games behind San Francisco in the NL West, but fell 5 1/2 games behind the Mets for the wildcard spot. 
Hampton (13-7} allowed just one run on three hits in eight 
. innings. recording his fifth­straight victory. The lefthander missed his last start due to a fractured rib. but is 4-0 in his last six outings. Hampton struck out three and walked two bat­ters. 
With the game knotted at 1-1, the Mets took the lead for good in the seventh inning. Edgardo Alfonzo laced a leadoff single and wound up at third after a single by Mike Piazza and Hobin Ventura's walk. Zeilc then grounded out to shortstop, allowing Alfonzo to score to make it 2,1. 
Byung Hyun Kim relieved Arizona starter Armando Reynoso and got the visitors out of trouble. but the damage had been done. 
Armando Benitez clnsPd out the win, fanning two, for his 35th save. 
Reynoso (10-9) surrendered two earned runs on four hits in the tough-luck loss. The righthander struck out two and walkPd two, falling to 5-3 life­time against his former team. 
Reynoso and llampton kept the bats quiet over the first thrnc innings. 
But Agbayani got things start­ed in the fourth, slamming a Heynoso offering over tlrn left field fonce. The solo blast was /\gbayani's 12th home run of the season. 


-_,. 
page I 4 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, August 28, 2oqo 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Mora homers to give Orioles 3-2 edge over Devil Rays 
lwhind lo defeat tlrn Oakland stole scr.ond and continued to the fifth. Mike Cameron singled, lirst time this ynar. wnnl :l-l'or-(i
• Baltimore's 
/\thlnlics. third when the throw wr,nt into stole second and camn honin on with a honrnr l'or Minnnsota.Spurgeon wins first .lim Mocir (8-:·n walkPd David ccntor Iiold. Dmnk .Jntnr l'ollowod Mark Mcl.nmorn·s singln. "I likn it." Lawton said. "I g<'I. a start in majors .Justice lo start the eighth and with an HBI singlP. In tho lifth. Chicago loadnd tlrn lot of at-bats." 
JosP Cam;r\CO singlr\d. AflPr Jose In the fourth, New York drew bases on llerlwrt Pnry's singh·. Damion 1:aslcy hit. a t,vo-run Vizcaino cam!' in t.o run for within 4-:3 on a run-scoring sin­Chris Singleton's fielder's d10icP honwr and Bobby Iligginson's
As.ndateJ Press 
Canseco, Tino Martinez liftnd a gle by Jorge Posada and and walks to Jnff /\bbott and s,waky slid(• highlighl!\cl a S<'rins l'Olllirlf' ny ball lo rnnter f'inld. Bellingpr's BBi doubln. Mark Johnson. But Carcia got or comPba<'ks l'or Ih!troil, which 
Bi\LTIMOHE But Terrence Long struggled Piatt's lifth honwr of' the sea­Durham to ground out to PllCI tlw lost for just tlw I0th ti11111 in 28 
.lay Spurgeon allow!'d L\\O runs with tho ball in the sun, thon son in tho fifth gave the A's a 5-3 inning. games. TIH\ Tignrs wcrn trying to in s1>ven innings t.o win his first clroppPcl it after trying to makn a edge. In tho sixth, Tony GralTanino movn alwvP .:iOO l'or t.hn l'irst slart in thP majors, and Mnlvin basket catch, loading thn basns. was thrown out at tlw platn by limn sinc-P Op,ming Day. Morn h1mwn•d as tlw Ballimon\ With mm out, Luis Sojo hit a shortstop i\lex Bodrigunz wlwn IIPrtor Carrasco (4-:~) struck
White Sox 2, Mariners 1 

Oriol(•s ddi•at,•cl Tampa Bay '.~-2 slow bouncer lo third. which Eric · he att,~mptrld lo scorl' from sPc­out two in a 1wrl'Pl'l IOlli inning
Hay Durham hit a tinbrcaking

Sunday. Chavez picked up and thrmv past ond on third basr1man Carlos for tlw win.
homer in the eighth inning and 

It was UH• sixth win in night Iirst bas1•man Mike Stanloy. Sojo Guillon's 11rror 011 Carlos Lnn·s Trailing (1-:i. Mirnwsota srorNI
Chicago held SPattln to four hits 

ganws for tlw Oriolos. who took was crNlitPd with a single and an ground ball. a run in tlw ninth oil' .lmH'S lo ti,•
for thP second time this snrins as 

thrn(\ ol' four f'rom tlw last-placn HBI. and the throwing error Garcia allowed two runs and l.lw gamn. Cummings singlc,d
the White Sox beat tho struggling

IJ,-vil Hays. allow!'d a sncond run lo score to six hits in night innings. with rnw out. and 1110vnd to third
:-.farirwrs. 

Mora i1it a l\,·11-run homer in a tie it 5-5. on Hon Coo111nr's singln. David
The Mariners lost for the 12th 

thnw-run Jif'th inning that wipPcl Scott Brosius was walked Ortiz tlwn hit a slow groundout
time in 14 games, including a 4-1 Twins 7, Tigers 6 
out a 2-0 defidt. MikP Kinkade, int<mtionally to set the stage for to third. allowing Cummings to
defeat Friday night wtwn they Midrn Cummings was as murh 
obtainnd with Mora in llw July \Vi IIiams. hitting for Clay sconL
had four hil'i. a fan Sunday as lw was tlw hnro. 
2H trndP lhat sl'nt Mike Bordick Bollinger. Williams grounded l>nan l'alnwr had ti1•d tlw
Durham, who was cjt!clcd in Cummings hit a game-winning
lo Uw New York !\1ds, doubled in into a force play, allowing ganw in lhP 1\ighlh with an BBi
the ninth inning Saturday for HBI singln in thn 10th inning and 
th«\ go-ahead run. Martinez to sr.orn tlrn go-ahead cloubl<' and Dnivi Cruz put I)Pt roil.
arguing aftrir being called out on Hon Coomer had thrnn HBls as 
SpurgPon ( 1-0) gavP up Pight run. alwad (1-:i with a sa,Tilirn lly.
strikes in an 11-5 loss, hit his the Minnosota Twins bent tlw 
liits, walk11d two and hit a battnr .Justice add,1d an BBi double in Tim TigPrs took 4-:{ li•ad in tlw
15th home run of' the Sl\ason into Detroit TigPrs in a s1!nsaw ganw
in his third appParanc«• sincr1 thn ninth for New York. sixth on lligginson's uniqw• -;lid<'
the right-field stands off Fn1ddy al tlw Mdrodomc filled with 
!wing callNl uµ from Tripi!\-.'\ Dt>1my Neagle (4-4) won for thP at tlw plat<'. 1ligginson hit a oiw­
Garcia (4-4) with one out in the grnat plays and clutch hils. 
HodmstPr on ..\ug. 14. Tim l'ight­sm:ond tinw in thrnn decisions. out singln and advanrnd lo third
eighth. "It ,vas fun to watch and nv<'l1 
handi-r failPd to wlin• tlw sirlP in I IP allowed fivr1 runs on six hits on a wild pit('h and a grnundout.
Scan Lowe came out ol' the morn exciting to play in." 
11rdPr but was aid11d by thrr.e and fiiur walks in scv(m innings. Matt Kinrwy Llwn thrPW a pit,·h
bullpen for Chicago and started Cummings said. "It was just a 
doublP plays. striking out six. that got away l'ro111 catclwr
in place of Jamcs Baldwin, well-played ballgame."
Tlw only glaring l'law in Mariano Rivera recorded the Danny Ardoin l'or a passPd ball.
whose start was moved back to Todd Jon(1s ((}-3). alkr blowing
Spurg1!on's performance came in !inal four outs for his 29th save Ardoin got to th<' ball quickly
Tunsday night because of a tirml a onn-run lnad in tlw ninth. 
Lhn sncond inning. wlwn /\ubrPy in 34 opportunities. and thr<'W to Kinney 1·owring tlw
arm. Lowe gave up one run, four issued a pair of' onn-out walks in 
Iluff hit a two-run shot to cli•ad Oakland starter Gil llcrndia platP. wPII alwad or Iligginson.
hits and two walks in five the 10th. Malt Lawton hit an 
c1•nter Pstimate!d at 443 font. f'aih~d in his lifth attnmpl for his But lligginson -in micl-sliclP ­
innings. inlield single to load tlw basns 
MikP TromblPy pitchPd a pm·­earner-high 14th victory despite stopp<'cl his right 1'11ot short of'
Rookie Lorenzo Barcelo 12-1) bPl'ore Dnnny I locking struck out. 
focl eighth and rookie\ Hyan pitching 6 1-:1 effective innings. Ki111wy's lag, pop1wcl up and
pitched three perfor.t innings of Cummings then lin(id a 2-2 
Kohlmninr got three outs for his Ile allownd thrnn runs on six hits s1wakNI his IPl't l'oot onto 1111·
relinf for the win. Keith Foulke pitch to lnf'l lo giw MinnPsota its 
SCVPlllh SUV(~ in SPvnn opportuni­with two walks and two strike­platP.
pitched lhe ninth for his 24th 30th comc-f'rom-bPhind victory
tiPs. outs. "It's not sonwthing that l'vp
save in 29 opportuniti11s. It was and third win in lhur games. · 
i\ft1•r stranding six runners in Stanley gaw the A's a 3-0 lead prarlirPd lwl'or<'." lligginson
his second save in thn series and "You're just trying to gPl a 
tlw first four innings. thP Orio!Ps in the first with his 12th home said. "It's just sonwthing wlwn'
his fourth save this season base hit llrnre, whi('h mak(is it 
brokn thrnugh in tlw liflh against run. /\ftrr Randy Vnlarde dou­your instincts takP ovPr...
against Seattle. that much easi11r," Cummings
Hy an Hu p I\ f 5-5). Brad y bled and Adam Piatt walked. Kinrniy thought hn was out.
Tim White Sox took a I-0 lead said. 
Anderson hit a lmtdoff singl<i and Stanley hit an 1-0 pitch from "Wlwn hP canrn in I got hi111 on
when Paul KonPrko led off the "Midre's such a prol'nssional
Mora followod with his s!~coml Neagle into the left-lield bleach­lhP right (pg bPforn hn clPcidPcl to
second with his 15th homer of hitter," Lawton said. "I IP knows 
;\I. homer. Hupe• limn got two nrs. jump ovnr," Ki111wy said. "But, it
the season. what to do them." 
outs bPforn allowing suc:cessiv<! Sal Fasano hit his seventh d1wsn't matlPr now."
The Mariners ticd thfl scorn in Lawton. batting IPadoll' liir tlw 
doublris to Chris Hicharcl and homer of tlw year. a solo shot Kinkade. with on<! out in the sccond to put 
Huiw was :i-0 in nine sta1·ts Oakland up 4-0. 
sinn! hPing rPcallPd fhm1 Tripi<•­Tim Yankees gol a run back in 
,\ Durham on .July 8. lie was tlw third. Luis Polonia walkPd, 
NOTRE 1lAME 
S«'Pki11g to hrPak tlw club rncord for rnnsPrtlliVP wins, but instnad 

ROW.ING GLOB 
.... 
jOIN THE MOST POPULAR, FUN, AND COMPETITIVE MEN'S CLUB AT N.D.
iiPrevious rowing experience is not necessary. Freshmen are especially encouraged to join. Women are needed as coxswains. 


Monday, August 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Severe storms postpone Vick's run at Heisman 
A.,!-.ndatl'<i Press 
BLi\CKSllCHC. Va. Mi('h,wl Vil'k's run at tlw IIPisman Trophy will haw to \Vait ,1 WP!'k. 
S1111da~ night's (;Porgia T(·rh­Virginia Tnl'h ganw was postponPd hv ganw and school olTkials aftnr s;'Vf'rP thundPrstorms and lightning rnllf'd into tlw arna just as tlw tParns \\'('r<' li1ll'd up f'or tlw opl'ning kickoff. 
\flpr \\'ailing about an hour as tl11111rkr ru111hl1•d in. lightning bolts lit up tlw sky and !wavy rain pliltnd lalll' Stadium. Virginia TPch ath!Piic dirl•dor .lim vV,•avPr announcnd Urn postp0ll('lll('lll at ();()8 p.ll1. 
"Tlwr<' is anotlwr round of' storms nrnn• s!'V('rl' than tlw first om\ so tlrn gallll' is postpo1wd." WPavPr said. "WP will talk about tlw possibility or l'Psrlwcluling. of' lllaylw playing tlw lir,;;t WPl'kPml in i}P('('llllwr." 
\\'ith tlw lkld soakNI and pudd]Ps forming 1war tlw sidnli1ws, \,V(~HV!'r said h<· did not \\'Hill to risk injurins. \'irk. tlw lloki<'s· sPnsational quartPr­bal'k \\ ho !Pd Llw \(•am to tlw nation­al litfo gam" in l')l)<J. \\ill now make his rnurh antiripatPd sophomorP dPIJt1l Saturday against J\krnn. 
(;p11rgia 'l'!'1·h athlPtir dirnctor 
David lfrai1w. \\!f'a\'Pr. n•f\~rnP Dan 
Blum and ganw organizPrs nwl dur­
ing tlH· storm ,ind cl,•rickcl against 
tr~·ing to pla,· 1111' ganw Sunday or 
l\lonclm. 
"Hoth t1•a111s play lll'Xl Saturday and that f'i1·ld is not going to lw pla\abll'... \\',•a\f'l' said. 
\\hi!!' \\'Pa\·Pr hopps to P\'('lllually 
pla~· tlHi gnnll'. l{rni1w isn't so surP, 
('Sjll'('ially about tlw IJ,,,·,•mlwr dat(~. 
Tlw YPllow .1,l('k<'ls play rival c;,•orgia 
on No\'. 2;i 
"I d01i't think it's a good idPa. Our 
r(~asons !'or playing a prPsnason 
game· \\'!'l'P lwntllSP \\'(' hml an i1wx­
1wriPll('Pd qttarlPrlla<'k." Brni111~ said. 
"Ill' \\'ill Iia,·1• 11 ganws b>' tlwn." 
BrainP said loams won't gnt thn $(,00,000 tlwy wcrl' promisPd if thn gamn isn't playNI, but addnd: "Wn didn't play this game l'or mo1wy any­way." 
W(•avnr said tlw schools would havP to petition tlw NCAA to play on a Friday bn('aUSP that is tlw night high schools play tlrnir ganws. 
Tlw c!Pcision wlwtlrnr or not to play r.ould hav,~ national titlo implications. Tlw llokir·s WPrf' rankml No. 11 in the AP prcsPason poll. while the Y,dlow Jackels n~lurn 18 starters from last ynar's 8-4 squad. Gnorgf1 (;odsey. who stPps in for the departed .l<w llamilton at quarterback. had his dPbut as tlw 1ww starter dPlaycd a wnck. Th!' Y,-llow Jacknts play C!\ntral Florida on Saturday. 
In 19<)8. Lim L'CLA at Miami game was postponed on Sept. 26 bncausc of tlw threat ol' llurricann G,rnrges and rnsrhedulnd for Dec. !i. Wlwn the Bruins cam<' to Miami limy WNP 10-0 and bidding for a bnrth in tho nation­al till<' ganw at thn Fiesta Bowl. 
Miami won 4<J-4;i and d1•nil'd UCLA of a pnrfrrt rngu lar spason and prob­ablP matchup against TlmnessP<' in tlw Bowl Championship Snries' title 
game. 
Whnn tlw storm hit Sunday night. 
players. officials and photographNs 
daslwd off tlw liPld and lrnadod for 
slwlt<•r. T!w Yl-llow JackPts st.nod 
undPr a t(·nt and makeshif't garage, 
tlw llokim; in a small tun1wl. Both 
tmuns PV<rnlually ran across tlrn lield 
to tile tunnPl li\ading to the locker 
rooms. 
By 9 p.m .. and with thP rain intcn­
sif'y.ing, most of the crowd of' 55,000 
had takr\n shnltor. 
"l was really looking rorward to 
playing this game." Georgia Tech 
coarh GnorgP O'Leary said. "Wr, had 
lrnt>n ralh•cl olT the field for lightning 
lwl'nrP. but wn had always been 
called back." 
I :  Have you thought about  
I : I I I I I  teaching Religion and becoming a Catechist?  
II I I I I I1 I I  ¦•I•0,MPUSMINISTRY *Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? * Can you give one-two hours ofyour time each week? * Do you welcome the challenge to arliculate and share your faith? * Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish?  
:  * Would you like to work towards catechist certification?  
I I I  
:  If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions,  
I I II  come find out more about being a Religion Teacher. Call ,John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163  
I  
:  Important Information Meeting:  
I  Wednesday, August 30, 5:00-6:00 P.M.  
: I I I I I I I  Foster Room of LaFortune Student Center  

·------------------------------------· 
Trojans trample Nittany Lions in season opener 
. Southern Cal's McCullough rushes for career-high 128 yards 
Associated Press 

EAST RUTIIERFOHD, N.J. 
Sultan McCullough proved he's more than a track star playing foot­ball. 
The sophomore tailback had a carnnr-high 128 yards rushing as No. 15 Southern Cal bnat No. 22 l'nnn State 29-5 Sunday in the Kickoff Classic. Tim Trojans. playing Penn State's styln of smash-mouth football, out.rushed tlrn Nittany Lions 164 yards to 6, the lowest total for any l'r,nn State team unclnr Jim Paterno. 
"Peoplo say I'm just a track star. They say. 'Oh. he's fast. but all Im can do is run track,"' said McCullough, a sprinter on USC's track toam. "l want to show everybody I can do it all." 
McCullough, who cmcrgnd as the starter in training 

I I way I wanted him l.o," Hackett said.
·------------------------------------· 
"People say I'm just a
camp, had 413 yards first half than the last snason and track star. They say 'Oh, defense. never carried morn Troy Polam,1lu
he's fast but all he can do 
than 21 times before intercepted a badly
is run track.' I want to
getting 29 carries thrown pass by against Penn Statn. show everybody I can Casny and returnf'd "l said we had it 43 yards to give
do it all." 
thrno runnPrs and USC a 20-3 lead with ono would establish 2:37 lnft in the sec­himself' as the tail­Sultan McCullough ond. David Nowberry back and Sultan Trojan tailback missPcl the extra 
point. 
It was t!rn f"i rst interception returned for a touchdown against Penn State sincn USC's Quincy llarrison did it in 1994. 
USC, which has struggled in games played on tlrn East Coast. didn't snem affected by the cross-country journey. The Trojans playPd Big East-type football and pounded it at PPnn State beforo a Kickoff Classic-rPcord crowd of 78,902. 
A I0-play, 73-yard drive capped by a· 2-yard run by Petros Papadakis rn a rfo it 14-3 with 1 :4 4 Ie ft in the first. The drive consisted of thrne passes and seven runs, including live carrins for 41 yards by McCullough. 
"Jlis tough runs over and over set the t.01w," Hackett said. 
In addition to allowing touchdowns on a punt block and an interc<'ption, Penn State's offnnse committnl fivP false starts, and gained just 87 total yards in the first halr. 
"Thoir defense rnally didn't do any­thing to disrupt us. WP disruptnd our­selvPs by jumping of'fsid1\s and not get.ting wlwre we nPed to bf' at tinrn. and not making tlrn right calls," Casny said. 
Thn ;193 combined yards wen' thP f'<iwest in Kickoff Classic historv. 
Patnrno rnmains snvPn victo;:ies shy of bn\aking 13Par Bryant's Division I-A record of 323. 
PLEASE 
RECYCLE 
THE 
OBSERVER. 

took a big step." CSC coach Pau I Hackett said. "Ho's one of the fastest guys around, but Im 
made some tough runs." 
Quarterback Carson Palmer also showed some toughnAss. Palmer, playing his first game since breaking a collarbone in the third game last year. was 10-of-20 l'or 87 yards. 
"Ho handled the football team the 
I "lie handlod tho offense the way tlrn 
: 
leader has to. That was more impor­tant than how murh passing he did." I It was tlw worst season-opening
I loss for Penn State since a 44-6 defoat against Nebraska in the 1983 Kickoff 
I 
Classic.
I 

The loss spoiled a homecoming forI Penn Statc1's Hashard Casey. Tho senior quarterback. who grew up in
I 

nParby Hoboken. played his first
I 

I 
game since being charged with assaulting an off-duty police officer in May.
I 

Casnv was 7-of-24 for 106 yards. lie
I 

was replacPd by Matt Senneca in tlw
I 
fourth quarter.
I 

"This was a tough outing !'or him l'or
I 

I a lot of reasons." said Paterno, who is 1 starting his :-lSth scasnn. "Ile had a I tough prcseason. Now that he has this I out of' his crawl, lw ('.an comn home 
and have somo fun."
: 

Penn State came out tentativc. and I USC capitalized early. Thn Nittany
I 
II 
I 

eCo liege Football.com
I I 

I The Marketplace
I 11 
II 
I 
: 
I I I I I I I 

lh-~"""-""".=_"""_""'_"""'_"""_""'_"""-~"""•""'iiiii"""_..,.•""'"iiiil;aa111
,~ 

$$ I need to buy Nebraska vs. Notre Dame fooball tickets.$$ 
Home Phone: 

(562)598-3949 
24 Hr Voice Mail: 
(213) 487-4161 
Lions committ.Pd two raise start penal­ti1\s in the first thrnf' plays. th<rn madn a crucial mistakP. on spocial teams. 
Safety Frank Strong. a law scratch from tlw starting lineup, burst up the middln and casilv blocked David Boyer's punl. anci Sandy Fktchcr returned it h yards to give USC a 7-0 lead just 2:15 into thP game. 
"A lot of' theso kids haven't playnd a lot or football." Paterno said, trying to explain the early jitters. 
Penn State, which lost nine starters on defense, inrluding Courtney Brown and LaVar Arrington, didn't seem like it had an overhauled defense early in the gam,i. 
An interception by Bhawoh Jue gave tho Nittany Lions possession at USC's 38, and a late hil out of' bounds by Ryan Nielson on Casr.y set up Ryan Prirnanti's 37-yard fir,ld goal that cut it to 7-3 vvith 7::H left in tlw first. 
But the clefcnsn couldn't provide any more big plays, and Penn State's offonse, which was expected to b<\ the team's str<~ngth. ar:tually surrnndered m or <' poin ts in th e 

page 16 The Ohserver . SPORTS Monday, Augusr 28, 2000 
---===--=---~----~-==================================-=--====-=--=--=-=-=-=--=-==-=-======:-=========================================================:-. 
GOLF 

Woods wins third-straight major at NEC Invitational 
make·a serious bid for the PGA 
Tour's 72-ilolc scoring record of 
257, set by :V1ike Souchak in the 
1955 Texas Opnn. 

And just bc<'ausn it was ,moth­Pr romp, Fircstonn wasn't dP.void of nxcitem,mt. 
StPwart Cink got a hole-in-one on No. 12, a 4-iron !'rom 21 '.1 yt•,u-s. and Hnti,•f Goosen had an acP on No. 7 with a 3-iron from 
2:10 vnrcls. 

Ttic b1•st shot of tlw day camn from Els. whosi-5-iron from 186 ynrds 011 th,• par-5 2nd cilught a slopr brhind lhe flag and rolled back into tlrn cup for a double eagle. 
Otherwise. thn NEC Invitational tunwd into a baHlc for st•cond. 
Sutton stared down Woods in a linal-round duel at Tlrn Players Championship ln win by a strokn, although then~ was a big diffPr­,mcc Sunday -lrn startrd the day trailing by nine strokes. not ahead by one. 
Still. Sutton made an aggrHs­sive start with birdies on t.hn•1• of his first tivn hol,:s and two nifty par saves. 'Woods played consrw­vativnly, aiming al tb11 micldlo of t.lw grmms and making all pars. lie hog1\yed the par-'.1 7th by chipping JO fof!t by and missing tlw par putt, and sudcl!mly his !Pad was down lo five. 
That's as dose as it got. 

Sutton bladed it out of wet sand on No. 8 and made t!w first of thrne straight bogeys. Woods finally wnnt at a pin. made a 12­l'oot birdie and coastPd from them. 
Price !ell Firnstonc feeling just as satisffod as if Im had won. The only rPason tlrn Welshman got into the World Golf Championship event is because tlrn European tour changed its qualification from Rydp,r Cup members to the top 12 Europeans on its money list. 
Notre: Dame Tickets Buy /Sell/Trade 
Nebraska Wanted 
Preferred Tickets 
234-5650 
Attention SENIORS interested in the Rhodes, Marshall, and · Mitchell Scholarshi s 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on: 
Tuesday, August 29, 2000 
6:00 p.m. 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in I02-8 O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
. lnt~rested in Joining a Club 
BufDon't Know Where to Get Started'? 
SaintMary's College 
AtllVIIIII MICHi 
2eee 
Wednesday,August30 7-9pm Angela Athletic Facility 
BE THERE!! 
. Price, Leonard earn tie for second place 
Asso~iatcJ Press 
:\KHON. Ohio TigPr Woods only had 10 lwat tlw dark1wss Sundav. It was a riosP cail. 11nlik1! any­thing ds,. in tlw NIT lnvit111Jonal. 
H,u:iu).\ tlw clock lwcausP or a storm di•lay that s11spP1Hkrl llw final round for rwarly thr1•p hours. Woods took Pight holl's to g,•t u11lrnl'k1•d nml t~wn cnris1•d 
l.11 anotlwr landslid!' victory, this tinw hy I I strok11s. 
Ill' probably !'ould havP won this tll\P in tlw durk. In a filling r.onclusion. his X-iron into the 18th gr1·1•n t'm<-rgPd from thP dark1wss and dropp1•ll 2 f'l'P! from f.lw holP. Fans sa\\ a silhou­i'ltt· ol' th1• lwsl playPr in ll11· world walk do\.\'11 t.lw l'airwav. and sonw l1irkNI tlwir lightpi•s likP llH•y w1•rl' al a rock 1:011ci'rl. 
1•:vPn in owrwlwhning victory. Woods ran still pul 011 a show. 
IIP m111pl1•t1•d his romp oV!'r a world-class lil'ld with a 3-unckr (,, lO finish al 21-undi•r 2:;<). It was llis lownsl 72-holP scort• as n profpssional, and it hrok1• tlw 1-'irnstorl!' n•rord or 2(12 set I 0 yPars ago by .Josi• Maria Olazabal. 
A W!'l'k afti•r an 1•motiorrnlly draining playoff victory in tlrn l'Gi\ Championship l'or his third straight major. Woods slw\\'Nf no IPt11p in a ganw that ap1wars to lw without ~wakrwss. IIt• now has sl'I tournanwnt n•1·ords in his last lirnr virtoriPs. 
It also was llw third tirnn this year Woods has successfully defnmled a tit!,•. and he novv has won tlm~ti of tlw livn World Golf' Championship 1W!'lll'>. IIP eanwd $1 million. giving him rnon• 

money in 1h11 last. two years Lhan 
nvnryorrn but Davis Love Ill on 
thn <·.arPer money list. 
Phillip Pric1• ol' Wales, playing his lirsl tournanwnl in the Unittid Statt•s, got as dose to Woods as anyo1w Sunday -livr strokes. But lw bogeynct throe of the last liiur holPs and finislrnd with a (i<) to slip into a tin for second with .Justin L11onurd, who had a 66. Both Parned $4:n,500 from llrn $5 million pursiL 
Nnxt up for Woods: A clinic al Firt>stotw in tlw morning. fol­lowed by a trip to the California dPsPrt for his made-for-TV match-play nwnt against Sergio Gan:ia. an PXhibition that µays $ l. l million to t.lw \.vimwr 
Woods got in some practice Sunday -lrn put on a clinic, and mnd1• anoth1•r lournamPnt look likl' a llli'l'I' exhibition. 
Woods. who oppned with rounds of' 64 and 61. won for the filth timn in bis last snvnn tour­nanwnts, and for tlrn nighth time this vcar 1111 Urn l'CA Tour. The last iiliiyN to win at l<•ast i>ighl times in consnrutivn seasons was Byron N1!lson, who won 1iigilt tinrns in 1944 and a rncord 1R timPs in If)4!i. 
Pf'rhaps that's rwxt on the horizon for Woods. 
I !is (17 on sog!-,ry Firnstonn was his '.15th consPrntivc round at par or lwttPr worldwide. dating to tlw fir;;! round of' Uw Bvron l\iPlson Classic in Mav. · 
l.conanl, who lu1sn't won in ovpr two years. was runnf'r-up for tlH' third tinw this year. Orw of tlw.'w was at the MPnwrial, where he and Ernin Els iinislrnd liv<1 bd1ind Woods. 
Phil Mickelson and Hal Sutton each had a 70, while Jim Furvk had a 68 to lie for fourth. l2 strokes bnhind. 
While Woods was never seri­ously challenged, ncitilcr did he 

Monday, August 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
While the newcomers were indeed potent, there w11re mmnhPrs of tlrn old guard to bn heard from as well. 
Senior i\.n,rn Makinen oponcd the scoring by con­voning a pretty reed from classmat<• Mentis Erikson, and then added two assists in her first game as the real r o c a 1 point of of ways." 
While the Irish dominated the Titans in every facet of ihe game, including out­shooting thflm by a total of 49-2, Waldrum was still not entirely pleased with his squad's performance. 
"\\le still have a long way to go," he said. "To have as many shots as we did, it's a bit disappointing that we didn't score more than we did. I also think we gave the ball away too many times. We really need to 
tlrn n'­work on
"We still have a long way to 
vam pcd ball con­
offense, go. To have as many shots as trol as a 
"Ann(~ we did, it's a bit disappointing team." is dPl'i­Aft e r
that we didn't score more than 
n i t P I y opening 
we did. I also think we gave
our go-to to rave playur," the ball away too many times. reviews, Wald rum Waldrum
We really need to work on ball 
affirmed. hopes his 
"She's control as a team." show can just so con tin uo unst>lfish to satisfy
Randy Waldrum 
with tho the crit­
Irish head coach
ball. l t h i n k so m e ­
times we just irned her w I.JH a hit more Sfdfish." 
Undoubtedly, it's a poriod or adjustment for the Irish as many players arc in transi­tion. 
While the freshmen pre­pare to move into starring roles, Waldrum feels com­pelled to give Makinen the lead. 
It is his hope that the squad's veterans can aide the freshrrn:n as they prepare to star on the biggest of stages. 
"Certainly players like Anrrn and Meotis will ease the transition." Waldrum noted. "Anne is sometimes a player that I think we take for granted, but she means so much to the team in a lot ics. 
All sea­
son long, he along with the freshmen will be confronted with-one question: can this group of players replace that out­standing senior class of last year? 
Waldrum thinks they can. 
"They're probably a. more talented group athletically," he noted. "They have the tools, but they need experi­ence. Only time will tell if they can do for us what last year's girls did." 
Freshmen Amy Warner, who drew high praise in her first game was excited just to be on stage. 
"It was great just to be out there at this level," she said. "It's a great team to be a part of." 
Football 
continued from page 20 
but after reviewing tho films from Friday's scrimmage Davie announced Saturday that he would refrain f'rom making any final decisions until today or Tuesday. 
"It's close between Joey Hildbold and Nick Setta for the punting job," said Davie. "We're going to go this week on Monday and Tuesday to see but I think both those guys will end up punting for us at some point. It's really close.'' 
Setta was quick to share credit with his teammates for his stel­lar scrimmage perfor­mance. 
"The snaps were good, the holds were good, the line did a good job so it was a real positive day in all aspects," said Setta. "It's showing all the hard work we did over the summer." 
That hard work has paid off for Setta, who, even if he does not start, has proven he is a valuable asset to the kicking team. No mat­ter who Davie and his staff pick to open season, Setta knows the tight competition has and will benefit the group as a whole. 
"We all help each other," said Setta. "We know we're all going for each other's job, but at the same time we're there to help each other. We do what's best for the team." 


The pressure on the quar­tet of Miller, Hilbold, Setta and newcomer Matt McNew is apparent as the season opener lingers several days away. 
After last season's series of hits and misses, they know there will be even more pressure for success. But Setta is not about to let the high expectations bother him. 
Observer sports needs you. 
Step up to the plate. Call 631-4543 . 

... just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial institution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience, competitive products and pricing, and a level of service second to none. 
Convenience • With over 40 banking centers and ATMs in the area, 1st Source is everywhere you might be. Visit our full-service office in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's, complete with ATM, or use our ATM in the Hesburgh Library. 
Internet Banking • With 1st Source Bank's on-line banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com, you can check your balances, transfer money between accounts, and even pay bills. 
Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from home7 lst Source can make getting money from home fast and easy by arranging to have the money transfered to you electronically. 
When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. So s<1ve your prayers for a real crisis -like finals! 
Saint Mary's Banking Center• 235-2019 M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 
"l think there's pressure 
on any position, it's just how 
you deal with it," said Setta. 
"I really just try to go out 
there and have fun. There's 
always going to be some 
amount of pressure, but if 
you're having fun, you don't 
feel it as much." 
Fun for Setta would be 
earning a starting position 
against Texas A&M. Only ·time will tell. 

Better still, etch the warning signs into your brain. And while you're at it, make a mental note to call 9--1-1 to get help fast any time they show up. To learn more, visit www.americanheart.org or call 1-800-AHA-USA1 , 
American Heart .,,. Association. 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
This space prollided as a public service. Cl t999. American Heart Associabon 

p:1ge 18 The Observer·. SPORTS Monday, August 28, 2000 
------=======================-=-===================-========-=---=-==---=-::.:·=-~=--=--=-=-=-=-==================================== 
•· 
History means little for Irish 
I lward il wav too many 
tinws this sumi1wr. · 
Being from Notn· Danw and working as a prorlucPr at n sports talk radio station in Ann /\rbor, ~II. 
you can 
1ixpcct. lo 
lu\ar just 
about 
('VPrything 
from tlw 
supporl('rs 
oftlw 
good old 
maizt' and 
hhw. 

"!'Jkc season last ytiar. 
Fox." 
d1ucklt\ 
chu<·klP. 

"W11'rn glad you guys didn't join tlw Big T«'n." snort. snort. 
"Navy's getting prPlty good1 arim·t th(iy?" ha. ha. 
Notn' DatnP's 5-7 football season last yPar dicln't lnavn nm with a wholn lot lo r.01111! bat'k with. By tlw 1111d or Lim SUlllllWI', I. S;lllll'OIU' wlmsl' gridiron gn•atn,•ss stops at t!w crook11d sidl'line of' s1·ction football. Pv1m folt likn I had somPlhing to prove. 
Now just imagilw what tlwsn h'-it nirw months haw felt like~ to our classmates who put on Lim hltw and gold PVPry Saturday. 
;\ losi1·1g s1'as011. No wins in Novmnbcr. 0-5 on tlm road.;\ coach !wing wat.rh1•d rnorP dosP!y than the final t>pisode of "Survivor". An artidn in "Sports lllustratPd" saying tlw Irish can't rnally com1wlll any-


111on•. Not ranked in tlrn Top 25 lwarling into this srmson. But, none or that should mat­wr now. 
Whm1 I tolrl oml of my f'rinnds in Ann Arbor that the last time Notre Darnn wasn't bnwl eligi­ble I198b). th1\y r.ame back to win tho national titln two ynars latnr, Im told ml' history dcwsn't mnan a wliole lot in sports. 11,~•s right. 
And that's a good thing for tlw WolverinPs and others. Oth,~rwisn, tlw fart that Notrn Dame, boasts morn national titles and 111\isman winners than anyo1rn nls1~ might hang a dark cloud ovnr Michigan win­ning its first national title in 50 yc~ars. 
No, all that matters arn tht~ playPrs playing now. 
At tlw nml of last vear, then sophornor,~ widPout David Givens said. "When you'nl on a losing l1\am for a year. you get tirPd nl' it -you'rp ready to win." 
You're an olfonsivc lino that has ditched the annoying adjnctiw "inuxp1ll'i(mced" from last y<'ar and now returns four starters with something to prove. 
You're a sophomore running back who thP country hasn't Sl'Pll a wholc Int of yet but will once a long line or \vould-be tacklcirs comn up clutching nothing but tt11\ spar.c you used to occupy. 
You're a d1lfonsive backfield l'Paturing a sPnior corner who had to sit out last sfmson and a S!~nior frcw safoty who n~joins the defonsive backl1eld a(ler handling just about every duty but those of the kickers. 
You'r1• a plac!i kickPr who mw,i inherit a recent legacy of morn prayers than chners wlmrn~vrr the field goal unit takes thn field. 
You'1·p a senior tight end. onP or the b1:sl in Llw country. the man who somehow savnd us from dnfnat at the hands of' some despised Trojans, Yet many fenl you hawn't been given an adequate chance to show you'rn full range of tal­(mts. 
And you're onn ol'thn anchors of tlw defonsc. prolm­bly tb11 nicest guy on rnmpus, but a player who has bnen crit­iciznd for showing too much of' that "niccnnss" mi the [icld. 
Givens said. "We've got lhP talPnt on our team fto win!. The otlmr te:ams that we, play don't have bcttPr athlctns than we have." 
The stage has bcm1 set for this 2000 Notre Dame football loam. made up of many indi­viduals unit«'d by a singular motive, i.o show th~1 rnst of llH1 c:olleg(l football world what it alrl'ady knows. 
I'll concede that those out then~ who point to lllf1 dilTiculty of the early season gamns do have a point. .lust look at it: Texas A&M at Notre Dame. Nebraska at Notre Damn. Purdue at Notre Damn. 
I mean, that could bn a prntty rough schndule. Espl't:ially when you're playing on the road. 
The opinions expressed in this column are tho:w ofthe artlhor and not necessarily those rfThe Obseruer. 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame rallies to 1-1 split at Showcase 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Wrircr 
Behind a strong offonsP Ind by three f'rnshmPn, tlw Notre Danw men's soccnr lcam ddimtcd Akron 4-:{ on Sunday to finish with a 1-1 record at the ll'F'v\' Soc:cnr Showcas,i in Fort Wayrw, IN. 
The Irish talliPd th,:ir lirst goal as l'rnshman Kevin Hichards producnd an unassisted goal just I:4;i into the gaml'. Following a goal by Akron's 01:ja11 Bjfwso. the two tnams wm1t into halllirn<' with tlw ga111!1 tir\d 1­
1. The deadlock in scoring was bro­ken 8: 14 into the sncond half' as snnior vetnran lfoggin McKnight found junior t\latt Hosso lo put tlw Irish up 2-1. Akron. howc!vrr. ral­!i,~d to take a 3-2 l1~ad \Vith 28 min­uws rnmaining in the gamn. 
Then. freshman ,lust.in Dr.ltl'r took ovpr. Dcttnr 5C!m\d LIIHL'isislPd in the 67th minutn beforn finding r.lassmatn Dnvon Pr1\s1·od to scorn the ganrn-wimwr. 
"I got spun through. llwn I saw what was ahead of' mP and dP('idnd that I'd take tlrn guy on." said Dcttr.r, "I took him on, and thl'n thn keepPr came out. I dicnd thn knPpPr a little bit. I played it a littln too l'ar and thought I might have had a bad angle. But luckily I just shot and it went in. I wa'i really 1ixdtc\d altnr I scored. lt was a reaily good fo!\ling. 
"On the last goal I was dnbating if I should shoot or not, and [ saw Devon out of tlw cornnr of my nyn !lying down tlrn ldt sidn," adckcl 
lkttm·, "So r passnrl it lo him, 11!' 
touclH1d it around a gi1y and tlwn 
put it away." 
Equally important in tlm win was tlrn play by sophomorn goalie Coll' Straub, who is corn1wting with good frin11d Cn•g Tail !'or lhl' starling position in goal. J\l'tnr cac·h playing a half' in tlw lin,t Pxhibil.io11 ganw last Sunday vnrsus Loyola, 'Tait played tlw 1•ntirl' ganrn in Saturday's 2-0 loss to South Carolina ~t11d Straub did IIH) samP on Sunday. Straub f'inislwd Sunday's ga;nc with sovm1 s,1vPs. 
"Hight now llw 1'.mWhPs an' still trying to mak1\ the final d,icision. Hoth Gn,g and I am just doing what WI! can," said Straub, "Anything that tlw roadws dnridl' will lw lirn', WhonvPr is doing tlw lwst al tlw limn will bt\ starting, which is lwst li,r thn team." 
Senior Ml'Knight. strnssnd tlH' irnport,m1·p ol'l!),Ull unity and coop­
1wation. 
"Wn'vc; always 1lmphasiz(l(I l'rom llrn bPginning of Lill' snason that our team is 2<, playrn·s." hi' said. "l:vnry goal is a n•sult of all thosP playnrs. particularly tlw Olll'S 1111 !lw fide!." 
Sunday's win li,llmvl'd a 2-0 loss to South Carolina that s1\rVPd as a good IParning PXpPri1•11cn l'or tlw 
li'alll. 
"Tlw 2-0 scorn was vnrv dl'rl'iv­ing. WP had all tlrn good scoring opportunitil's, hut wn mad!' s11ml' silly mistakns." said l>P!tl'r, ";\s Coat'.11 !Chris Apph•I said. wP'rt• just using it as a IParning PXp1•rim11·I'." 


JOIN THE NOTRE DAME CIRCLE K CLUB 
-the world's largest circle K club -4000 hours of service done last semester -Over 20 weekly projects at varying times 
to fit your schedule ~All transportation is providedH 
FIRST MEETING: SUNDAY 9/3@ 7PM LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
Monday, August 28, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 TYLER
TOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
!AS0N, COULD 
;:ll / 

No, it's not the heat. It's the humidity. 




CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Common name 52 Raises, as the .for sodium ante
1 " for the 
poor" hydroxide 55 Military greeting 26 As well 57 Best Picture of
5 German author 
1981
27 WettishHermann 61 It's hard to30 New moon, e.g.

1 O Iridescent gem believe32 Gumbo
14 Lamb: sheep:: 62 Baby grand, e.g. 
ingredient

kid: 
63 Guardianship34 Halloween cry
15 Crowning points 65 More than 
35 constrictor annoys16 Whitish 36 1959 film with 66 Distant planet 17 Horrible boss Marilyn Monroe 

67 Particular 18 Unexpected 41 Suffix with Paul 
68 Apple carrier benefits 
42 To do this is 

69 Divvy up 19 They may be human 
70 Turner and smoked or 43 In for the night Danson pickled 
45 Whitish 20 1974 Mel 48 Fix up DOWN Brooks comedy 
50 Susan of "The 1 In the past 23 Fancy drinking Partridge 2 Ships' records glass Family'' 
3 Man 24 Optometrist's 51 Norma (classic ad interest (Sally Field role) figure) 4 Great buy 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 Fit for living 6 Supply-and-
Puzzle by Mitch Komro
T H A T I S L I S T A demand subj. H O M E L Y E N T A L 7 Grimy air 28 "You don't mean 44 Blonde's secret, 54 Silence me?!" maybe
E N A M E L A N T 8 Have a hunch 56 Permissible 29 Game played 45 Extremely cold 
H O R A f-+-+----T O 9 Think piece 58 Take it easy 
A R 10 _ with a straight ... 46 Libyan expanse
page (place 59 "Herzog" author 
or a straight face 
for a 9-Down) 47 Doctor Bellow u 11 Spanish dish 31 Big laugh 49 Stumblebum 60 Latch_ (get)with rice 
33 French friend 
53 The old man 64 Ens' preceders A p 12 Bowling spots 
35 Place for a claw T A 13 Apartment 37 World-weariness Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
dweller 38 Before, to a are available by touch-tone phone: 
1 M ...,-:+-:-+::=+:::-1 21 A's opposite, in bard 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
England V E R I S 22 Bus station 39 Bull-headed Annual subscriptions are available for the E R A S U O G E E 23 1960's Pontiac 40 was on the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 T A S S E L R E S T muscle car brink years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
overindulgence. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a little extra time to put detail into the gifts you are making. Don't let 

Happy Birthday: You need to friends or family talk you into 
work on yourself and .re-evaluate spending more than you can really your goals. Once you have accom­afford on unnecessary items. 000 plished this, you will be able to set a LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't positive course. You should be able push the ones you love away with 
to develop your talents and obtain your cranky "nothing is good some recognition along the way. If enough" mood. Work on yourself, you believe in yourself, you will be not on others. Make an honest able to make your life better. Your appraisal of your position and why numbers: 4, 17, 20, 32, 35, 41 you are discontented. 000 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Lis­Obstacles may stand in the way of ten carefully to what others tell you.finishing important duties. Travel They may be trying to lead youwill beckon you, but you'd be wise astray by being evasive about the to postpone any trips for the time truth. Problems will crop up if youbeing. Don't believe everything you travel or ifyou're expecting a parcel.
hear.000. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. Travel will result in new frienaships 21): You're likely to disagree with and partnerships. You will be able to your mate over the amount of expand your awareness through money being spent this holiday sea­philosophic courses. Spend time son. Don't overreact. Your partner is talking to those who contribute to probably thinking much clearer than 
your objectives. 0000 you right now. 00 
GEMJNI lMay 21-June 20): Don't CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): go overboard on gifts. You'd be wise Misconceptions about your relation­to sit down with a financial adviser ship may be brought to your atten­and work out a budget that will tion. Try not to fly off the handle. It is 
enable you to pay your bills and save best to sit back and take a look at for the extras you've been dreaming your options. 0000 about.00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): careful not to divulge fantil secrets. You'll be emotional if your mate has­You may not know all t[e facts. n't been spending enough time with Oianges regarding your professional you. Use your passionate energy in a position are likely. Don't be afraid to positive manner. You need attention, apply for a different job. 000 and you won't get it by arguing. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emo­00000 tional instability will prevail if you 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Festive let others take advantage of your 
events should be on your agenda. warmth and generosity. Put your You can make headway if you time and effort into helping those mix business with pleasure, but less fortunate. 000 you must avoid extravagance or 
Birthday Baby: You will go after your goals without hesitation. You're forceful, outgoing and ready to conquer the world. You believe that what you put out you get back in return. You are a great friend and a definite contribu­tor to society. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C 1999 Unlvezsai Press Syndicate 
-----------------~-------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13.000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 


Split decision 
First-year head coach Chris Apple led his team to a 1-1 record at the IPFW Soccer Showcase over the weekend. 
PORTS 


page 18 
O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER Monday, August 28, 2000 
-------========~=--=-=================.::...:.================================-================================================ 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Notre Dame keeps in step with 6-0 routing of Detroit 
. Freshmen Guertin, Scheller net goals for Irish 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Writer 
The cast of characters has 
changPd dramatically, but 
the show still opened to rave 
reviews. 
On the heels of last year's national runner-up finish, the Notre Dame women's soccer team. fcatu ring a brand new. much younger corps of players, acted as if' nothing had changed as it decimated the University of Detroit 6-0 Sunday. 
Hurt by th1) loss ofan out­standing senior class that includt\d the likes of All­Americans LaKcysia Beene and Jenn Grubb, Irish head coach Handy Waldrum was skeptical as to whether or not his freshmen class could jump into the !'ray. 
After watching his troops walk all ovPr the Titans, Wald rum's foars have been eased. 
Orielly Pnough it was group ul' frnshnrnn that headed the onslaught. 
Amanda Guertin and Handi SchllilPr. both playing in their lirst collPgiate contests, nett1!d goals as the Irish sank the Titans. 
"I was very pleased with the way our freshmen played today," Waldrum said, "It was nicn to see players like Amanda and Handi score in their l'irst games. It's always good to get the win." · 
see !RISH/page 17 


FOOTBALL 

Setta kicks competition into high gear in scrimmage 
opener against Texas A&M, "We all help each other. it. Nick Setta had a fine day last year's campaign whnn he 
By KERRY SMITH 

Setta decided to shake things for punting and kicking. How replaced the faltering Jim 
Sports Editor We know we're all going 
up. much that will impact or dis­Sanson against USC, Navy The sophomore reserve for each other's job, but at lodge David Miller and Joey and Tennessee before a hip Every athlete wants to be went on the offensive Friday Hilbold -that's something flexor injury ended his sea­
the same time we're there 
competitive. with an impressive placekick­we'll have to sit down and son early. During Miller's
to help each other. We

And Nick Setta is no excep­ing and punting performance discuss, but he was impres­short stint as the Irish place­
tion. 
Just as 
Irish head coach Bob Davie and his staff w e r e coming to kny deci­sions 
about the 
starting 


during Notre Dame's after­do what's best for sive today." kicker, he converted on two noon scrimmage, blowing the Last season, the Irish went of five field goal attempts and
the team: " 

special team's hierarchy a dismal 8-18 on field goal went 12-14 on point-afttJr wide open with less than a attempts, while missing five attempts.Nick Setta
week before the season kicks point-after attempts. Miller came back to spring off. Irish kicker Those are figures Irish drills with confid1rnce, earn­"You know, Nick Setta head coach Bob Davie ing the No. 1 placekicking 
today really came to life. doesn't want to see again, spot.
after Friday's scrimmage.
Joey Hilbold had some pres­which makes picking his Sophomorn punter Hilbold 
"Nick Setta also kicked field
sure and didn't kick it partic­starters so crucial. had all but secured his spot
goals today and was strong.
Setta ularly well one time and Nick Miller has experience on as the go-to player as well. 
We're going to just have to
Setta came in and really had his side -the junior saw 
look at the tape and evaluate
line-up for Saturday's season a great punt," said Davie action during the middle of see FOOTBALL/page 17 
Volleyball vs. New Mexico Volleyball vs. Fairfield Friday, 9 p.m. at Alma Tournament Cross Country
SPORTS St t!J 
Friday, 4 p.m. Sept. 1-2
ATA 
at Valparaiso Inv. Sept. 9, TBA 
vs. Tulsa vs. Texas A&M vs. Alma 
•
fl

Friday, 7:30 p.m. Saturday, 12 p.m. Sept. 4, 4 p.m. 
GLANCE SMC 




