
Matchbox Twenty 
Can we speak freely?
Rob Thomas and Matchbox Twenty rock the 

Tuesday
The Observer looks at free speech at 
JACC with a new-found confidence in support 
Notre Dame. 
oftheir second album, Mad Season. 
OCTOBER 3,
Scene . page 14 
In Focus 
2000 

VOL XXXIV NO. 31 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


BELLE PRIDE 


ND dependent upon off-campus housing 
Caponigro discusses Catholic perspective 
NEWS ANALYSIS 

Candidates prepare for debate 
By MEG DADAY 
News Writer 
The United States Catholic bishops believe that families who can not afford the cost of a Catholic education should receive tax vouchers allowing them to choose between public and pri­vate education. said Jay Caponigro at a lecture Monday night. Not all politicians agree. 
The Catholic perspective on educational choice was only one issue mentioned at the lecture entitled "Election Workshop 2000: Going to the Voting Booth as Persons of Faith." Caponigro, director of Urban Programs and Justice Education for the Center for Social Concerns, explained the campaign issues the U.S Catholic bishops deem important. 
The U.S. Catholic bishops have outlined the issues Catholics should consider as they analyze which candidate to vote for in their statement. "Faithful Citizenship: Civic B.esponsibility for a New Millennium." 
"We must challenge all parties and every candidate to defend 

PETER RICHARDSON/The Obseiver 

Jay Caponigro discussed the Catholic perspective on this year's candidates at a lec­ture Monday night. 
human life and dignity, to pursue greater justice and peace, to uphold family life, and to advance the common good," the bishops said. 
Caponigro said that the U.S. Catholic Conference of Bishops "called on Catholics to vote," but 
see VOTE/page 4 numbers dropped to 41 million in 1996 during a relatively lop­sided race between President Clinton and Bob Dole. The pre­ceding two races were fairly competitive and resulted in huge ratings. 


With Gore-Bush a dead-heat, the num­ber of Americans watching the debate could be record­breaking. 
Sociology professor Robert Fishman, 

who studies political sociology, said not to assume that because debates get high ratings, they automatically predict the votes. 
"Journalists and observers tend to agree that debates influ­ence voters, but that's not neces­sarily the case," Fishman said. 
With the exception of a candi­date committing a monumental blunder, Fishman said, a debate's influence does not last until Election Day. 

"Research seems to indicate that the greatest impact of debates manifests itself after the first week after the debate. It tends to fade once two weeks have passed." 
Fishman also said that debates should not be ignored because "they can still can change some voters minds." 
Professor John Roos of the gov­ernment department said that most voters come into the debates knowing who they will vote for. 
"A big percentage of people will not be affected by the debates. They are for the unde­cideds," Hoos said. 
Gore and Bush enter the debate season tied in several polls, with Gore leading in some, and Hush ahead in others. Nearly every major poll that shows one candidate ahead shows the lead within the margin of error. 
"For the undecided voters, those who have doubt<; about a candidate can be influenced by 
see ELECTION/page 4 

By ANTHONY LOPEMAN News Writer 
Tonight, the nation vvill turn its attention to the events inside the Clark Athletic Center on the cam­pus of the University of Mass­achusetts at Boston where the two major presidential candidates. Democratic V i c e ­President Al Gore and Hepublican T e x a s Governor George W. Bush, will square off in the first of three debates. 
According to the Nielsen rat­ings. presidential debates have been widely watched. An aver­age of 66 million people watched the two debates of 1988 between Michael Dukakis and George Bush and 90 million in 1992 for Bill Ointon. then President Bush and Ross Perot. However, the 
Bush 

By FINN PRESSLY A.ssista.nc News Editor 
As more and more students choose to spend their fourth ­and sometimes third -year off­campus. the University and student government have begun to lake notice of the trend toward off-campus liv­ing. 
"More students are moving off-campus and earlier ... It's something that we're starting to look at," said Scott Kachmarik. director of Student Residences. "I think people are looking for independence, for a change. they're looking for the ability to get into the 'real world' before they graduate." 
Despite the increase in Stl!­dents leaving the quads, how­ever, the percentage of stu­dents staying on campus has remained the same due to increased enrollment. 
"The percentage is still about the same," he said. "We're still 98 percent full, and we still carry a wait list. We have three lounges that we're using this year [as dorm rooms] because of an overflow situation." 
With the increasing enroll­
ment. the University relies on a steady stream of seniors mov­ing into town to house the campus population. 
"We've lost some beds with renovations and things like that. We absolutely need about 1,200 students to go off-cam­pus," he said. 
Student body vice-president Brooke Norton said that stu­dent government has begun to lay the foundation for closer examination and understand­ing of the issue. 
"A lot of people have been talking about it," she said. "I think it's an issue that's hard to pinpoint." 
Norton said that issues such as alcohol use, social space and the policies of individual residence halls may all play a role in convincing students off­campus. 
Kachmarik also indicated that there are a number of dif­ferent factors that come into play when students decide to move off-campus. 
"There's a lot of reasons," he said. "People gossip in South Dining Hall and say it's because of parietals, but I 
see HOUSING/page 4 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Tack)r television 
It's hard to distinguish whether it was the contest of ex-high school athletes or wannabe models, but FOX's "Sexiest Bachelor in America" was definitely a tasteless imitation of the Miss "fill-in-the-blank" contests. 
The show aired Monday 
evening with commentators, dressed as "Harbie Goes to the Costume Jewelry Store," who actually took the con­test seriously -as if there is a real technique to strutting around shirtless baring broad shoulders, a six-pack and a cheesy grif1. 

Yet, even after going 
through several rounds of' Helena Payne 
competition, Mr. Illinois, the 
first runner-up, said, "You 
don't feel like a piece of Copy Editor 
meat as much as you 
thought you would." 
-Yeah, riiight. 
Mr. Illinois looked like a piece of meat to me -and it's certainly not a bad thing -but he should not take himself' so seriously. 
During the firsl part of the show, the bache­lors walked on the stage to introduce them­selves to the viewers. At first, it was fun to criti­cize and complement contestants, but soon, I began to pity some of them. The host of the show . Caroline Rhea from "Sabrina, the Teenage Witch," flirted with the bachelors so much that it seemed as if she was the eligible one. 
The positive side to the bachelor contest, ifit can be called positive, is that finally women aren't the ones flaunting around on stage. However, just because the contestants were men and not women it doesn't justify the enter­tainment. 
"Sexiest Bachelor in America" was not entire­ly disrespectful to the participants because those men chose to subject themselves to the contest, but the show was still generally degrading to both men and women. Questions in the final rounds, which mostly addressed the contestants' sex lives sent a subliminal message to viewers that the most important factor in finding a potential mate is how sexually pleas­ing the man was with other women in the past. 
Even so. the networks know our society enjoys this type of entertainment. FOX was very effective in doing what all television sta­tions aim to do: grab viewers. Although, it wasn't my initial choice to watch the entire show. I pathetically admit that I did not speak against it when someone turned the television to the FOX network . Instead, I continued watching the contest all the way to the end when Mr. Virginia won. 
I can't recall the last time I watched a show on television that made me want to watch every episode. Of course, MTV's "The Real World" is always high on my list, but I no longer have time to keep up with fictional characters whose lives aren't interesting and whose comments aren't funny or even thought-provoking. 1 remember the days or "TGIF" on the ABC net­work with "Family Matters," "Step by Step" and "Boy Meets World." 
Somewhere along the timeline of television sitcoms, networks traded in wit for slapstick and producers ran out of sitcom ideas. This is not entirely the fault of television stations because their viewers indicate what they con­sider entertainment. Nevertheless, I am anxious for the day that entertainment has less junk and more substance. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Graphics  
Maureen Smith,:  Kacie Annis  
Helena Payne  Sports  
Colteen McCarthy  Katie McVoy  
Viewpoint  Production  
Kun Bogaard  Rachael Prorz.man  
Scene  Lab Tech  
Sam Derheimer  Amanda Greco  
Chris Scott  Erika Nimon  

The Observer (USPS 59') 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday t.'!ccpt during cum and va,::uion periods. The Observer is~ member ofthe Aswciatc<! J'rcn. All rcproJuuion rights ore reserved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
'This brings us "It's very important backwards from where to halle a united we were going. " class." 
Crissie Renner, Lauren Fowler, Saint Mary's Pasquerllla East student body president freshman representative on "Girl of Choice" shirt controversy 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
"She probably lived her 20 years as full as anyone could live their life. " 
Kate Stephan on Brionne Clary 

"/ think it is important for everyone to realize that this is not just a female issue. " 
Ryan Becker, Zahm Hall senator on sexual assault 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

MIT protesters ask for third parties in debates 
BOSTON 

Protesting the exclusion of third­party candidates from the upcoming presidential debate, hundreds of stu­dentc; descended on the MassachusetLc; lnstil.ute of Technology on Saturday for the first Student Power Conference. 
With tlyers scattered through the crowd reading, "Demand a real open debate," and "Join us -because democracy depends on you." college and high school students from Greater Boston and as far as California stood in an auditorium and chanted phrases such as "I am a 21st century leader." 
The conference, sponsored by the Boston Campus Action Network, included issue workshops on campus militarism and sweatshops and skills workshops on public speaking and 
CORNELL UNIVERSITY 

grassroots campaigning. 
The turnout was slightly low. but the conference has the potential to grow, said College of Arts and Sciences junior Mark Greenfield, also the Student Union vice president of 
residence life. 
"It's our first conference and it's an experience. It is a little unattended, but in tho future it has a potential to be amazing," he said. 
The conference was scheduled only a few days before the first presidential debate to be held at the University of Massachusetts at Boston. Organizers urged the students in attendance to march to the debate and protest the two presidential candidates. 
Most students and organizers felt that Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George Bush do not represent the general population and refuse to talk about issues such as housing and mili­tary spending. 
"The discontent and protest of the debate on Tuesday is in response to the reality that Bush and Gore ... am corporate puppets," Greenfield said. 
Students join to fight hate crimes 
ITHACA, N.Y. 
The Cornell University Asian Pacific Americans for Action (APAA) were joined by other minority groups Friday morning in silent indignation to protest the assault of a female Asian-American student on the Arts Quad in the early morning of Sept. 16. Students stood outside between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. to hand out quarter­cards, which described hate crimes and providing infor­mation on the assault. "We really want something proac­tive; we're trying to get awareness out." said Lisa Wang. president of the APM. The gathering was designed to be an informational session for students walking on campus rather than a rally, according to Wang. Students from various minority groups handed out more than 2000 quarter-cards in the four-hour period. Wang called the pamphleteering "a success." "We're not going to be overly emotional or angry. We want people to look at this and understand what's happening," Wang said. Most felt that the passive approach was the best way to get information across. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 D ,qSouth Beod Fo:D:ICB!lt. 
~ tare:ast: farrayt:irre arditicns arr! hi.g1 tmperarures 
Q,~-~9,6},Q(f ~u 
Showers T•slorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Va A••OPalBd Press Gr11plJ1CcSN.1.d 

CENTRE COLLEGE 

Small school pays to host VP debate 
WASIIINGTON 

Centre College in Danville. Ky., outbid 50 other schools for the rights to hosting the vice presidential debate this Thursday evening -for an estimated cost of more than $1 million. The small liberal arts college paid the Commission on Presidential Debates $550,000 and has invested nearly $500,000 addition­ally in infrastructure and debate-related costs, includ­ing $300,000 in fiber-optic telephone wires. according to Centre College Director of Communications Mike Norris. Centre has also, reportedly, used alumni and private donations to pay for the event, and has not used money from the school's general fund. Approximately 400 student volunteers -nearly half of the student body -will have contributed time by the event's end. "We're involved in every aspect of the debate planning," said Allison Elliott, a senior at Centre. The nonprofit, nonpartisan CPD, established in 1987, is intended to serve as a permanent, inde­pendent debate organizer. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 3. 

0 2000 AccuWe«lther, Inc. Pran~: ® © D D H<ah Low Show•r• Rain VUI A!:SCCUJIO(J Prfl!lS  D T~•torm•  D F1urna•  D Snow  COLD D...  WARM STATIONAHY Sunnv Pt. C&oudy C'6udy  
Manta Boston Chat1otte Chicago Dallas  64 80 86 64 69  62 57 59 57 71  Denver Detroil Los Angeles Miami New Orleans  64 71 66 86 84  42 51 64 80 66  New York SI. LOUIS San Fmncisco saa111e Wash DC  78 78 &I 62 82  64 68 57 46 66  


1ue5day, October 3, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
EI Campito program seeks new volunteers 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Nc-ws Writer 
The South Bend organization. El Campito. could benefit from student volunteers said director, Rosa Rickman. 
"My main objective as director is to promote El Campito. We are looking for any students that could maybe volunteer just a few hours one dav a week to help out at the daycare." said Hickman. 
A family center that provides help and aid to lower income families in South Bend. El Campito was originally set up 30 years ago as a multi-cultural agency to assist llispanic Immigrant families adjusting to life in the United States. 
Today, El Campito serves peo­ple of all cultures. but a majority of the participants arc of Hispanic origins.As a non-profit organization that receives finan­cial aid from the government to operate, El Campito has limited funding. Rickman said that vol­unteering will be a very fulfilling and rewarding experience. 
Although, the organization assists predominantly Hispanic families. volunteers do not have to speak Spanish. 
"People often have misnomers about the name El Campito. For any one who speaks Spanish, El Campito is a great opportunity to practice speaking. Don't worrv. thou!!h. vou don't have to 
Acousticafe' Thursday 9:00, LaFortun 
Best of Acousticafe' -Friday 9:00 LaFortune Ballroo 
Movies at Debartolo Chicken Run and High Fidelity 
speak Spanish to volunteer," said Rickman. "El Campito is an excellent chance for students to be exposed to a different cul­ture." 
El Campito provides three pro­grams: a daycare for children 1:1 months to 6-year-olds, a preschool called Mi Escuelita for kids ages 4 and 5, and a Parents Education Program that teaches young parents infant care. The daycare is open weekdays from 
6:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., while Mi Escuelita runs from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Some Notre Dame students arc already involved in El Campito. Sophomore Melinda Redding began working at El Campito this semester as part of her work-study program. She works with children for two hours a day, four days a week. 
"I love kids. Kids are so cute and innocent. It is cool to see how they act and how they learn in their environments. I try to speak Spanish to the kids, and I am thrilled when they actually understand what I am saying," Redding said. "I recommend El Campito for anybody who likes to work with kids and wants to learn about the South Bend Community." 
For students who are interest­ed in El Campito, the El Campito learning center is located at 1024 W. Thomas St. next to St. Stephen Church in South Bend. Students can also contact Rosa Rkkman at 2'.12-0220. 

ND professor captures gamma-ray 
Gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) Special to The Observer 
are mysterious flashes of high­energy light that are detected For the J'irst time, 
about once daily somewhere 
astronomers have resolved the on the sky. However, their ori­visible blast wave produced by 

gin remains unknown to 
a gamma-ray burst. By taking 

astronomers. most of whom
advantage of a fortuitous cos­believe GRBs are enormousmic alignment, a team of sci­

explosions that occur far
entists led by a Notre Dame 

across the universe. 
astrophysicist was able to Garnavich and his col­

focus the light from a gamma­leagues were able to achieve 

ray event this elu­some half­
sive goal:

way across "This discovery really 
to see the
the universe. · 

confirms what we r i n g ­
The object, 
shaped

dubbed "GRB thought a gamma-ray 
structure000301C," 

burst shock should 
caused bywas discov­

look like. " t h e
ered in 
gamma­
Mn.rch. After 
ray burst
gathering 

Peter Garnavlch 
because of
data at the 

physics professor "gravita­
Smithson­
tional
ian's J<rcd 

about the properties of such an event was made by coau­thor Avi Loeb in 1998, togeth­er with his student at the time. Rosalba Perna. 
In addition to being able to show that a GRB blast wave appears as a ring. the team also discerned information about the object that magni­fied the burst. 
"We believe that the gravity of an ordinary star, perhaps half the mass of our sun. cre­ated the lensing phenome­non," says Loeb, also of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. The authors found that the observed data perfectly flt the model for a ring structure which is expanding faster than the speed of light, a prediction first made in 1997 by Eli Waxman. 
GRBs are such large explo­sions they drive shock waves that travel at close to the speed of light into the sur­rounding gas, which then glows at x-ray. optical. and radio wavelengths. Because the shocks are moving at near­ly the speed of light, Einstein's theory of special relativity must be employed in calculat­ing what an observer would see. Contrary to common sense, the relativistic shock will appear to an observer as a ring that is expanding faster than the speed of light. 
Resolving the GRB ring is equivalent to spotting a wed­ding ring 2 million miles away. 
Lawrence Whipple Observatory and com­bining it with other observa­tions of this gamma-ray burst, the research team showed that it appeared as a small, rapidly expanding ring. confirming predictions. 
"This discovery really con­firms what we thought a gamma-ray burst shock should look like," says Peter Garnavich, professor of physics at Notre Dame and lead author of the paper to appear in the Astrophysical Journal Letters. "To be able to resolve an explosion so far away is really quite astound­ing." 
microlcns­

i n g . " Predicted by Einstein's theory of general relativity, microlensing occurs when the light from a very distant source -in this case. a gamma-ray burst -is ampli­fied by the gravity of an inter­vening object. 
"Gravitational microlensing is commonly observed in our galaxy," says Kris Stanek of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics and coauthor of the result. "But, this is the first time such a lensing event has been seen in a distant gamma-ray burst." The theoretical prediction 
Thursday 10:30, Friday and Saturday 8:00 and 10:30, Debartolo 101 and 155 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
and said Bush was ducking the 
Though Notre Dame's pro­outlines a contingency plan traditional debates out of fear of 
cedure for allotting rooms is where rising seniors would
Election 
Housing

stumbling in front of a larger audi­
different from other universi­enter a lottery for rooms, fol­continued from page I ence. Bush shot back that Gore 
ties, Kachmarik does not fore­lowed by juniors and sopho­
continued from page 1 

had earlier pledged to debate 
see any major changes to the mores until su!licient space is the debates. Then, debates could "anywhere, anytime" and that 
think it's a variety of rea­system in the near future. cleared for freshmen. have a very big impact," Roos said. Gore was reneging on that 
sons." "A lot of places say 'We Meanwhile, the Campus Life "People come into a debate with promise. 
need 2,000 be·ds for fresh­Council has formed a task three questions," said Hoos. Roos said this controversy will 
Kachmarik also said that as 
more students -including an men,' block them 011', and say force to examine consistency "Number one : Do I like this per­have little impact on the actual 
increasing number of juniors (to returning students]. 'You among residence hall policies son, do I feel comfortable with election. The spat did raise ques­
-move off-campus, they may can't pick those,"' he -a committee Norton hopes him? ... Number w.o ; Is this per­tions, however. of how a Gore­
find themselves regretling the explained. ''[At Notre Dame]. will help explain the complex­son going Lo l'ollow issues I Bush debate would turn out. 
we say 'You tell us who wants ities of why students are leav­favor'' ... J\nd number three his Would Gore, who has debated 
move. 

"Once people get off-campus to be on campus.' Then we ing campus at an increased qualifications, his presidential twice as a vice-presidential candi­
a lot uf people regret it. The cross our fingers and hope we rate. character and his competence." date in addition to many congres­
off-campus life isn't what they have enough room for fresh­"Once we have that analy­The purpose of a debate, sional and senatorial debates, beat 
envision," he said. "It's a men in August. The trends sis, we may be able to see according to the Commission on Bush who is running for national 
great thing to head out there and the history has been that what is lacking in the resi­Presidcnlial Debates is "to ensure ofiice for the first time and has 
on a Saturday night, but the it works OK." dence halls and why students that debates. as a permanent part only been involved in two prior 
reality of the situation is a lot Should this system fail, are moving off-campus," she of every gcnural election, provide campaigns? 
Kachmarik said that duLac said. the best possible information to Using the analogy of the NBA viewers and listeners." player-laden U.S. men's Olympic 
Generally though, Hoos said basketball team that struggled to candidates will hold back or be win lhe gold medal despite being 
different." 

which [plan) is going to help Government must help allevi­r.andid based on how it best suits heavily favored, Roos said, "The 
[senior citizens] survive and ate the financial and moral
them, whatever is most advanta­bar is ·higher for Gore. That could 
Vote 

thrive and which one is going to threats families face. To do this, 
geous. hurt him." 
continued from page 1 put them at risk." "Institutions that are around us"Candidates am trying to get The "stiff' Gore could be humili­The U.S. Catholic bishops in need to support individuals andelected and will do what's best to aled by the "personable" Bush or also to "reflect on lhese themes Faithful Citizenship said, "We create a space for individuals toaccomplish that," said Roos. the "lightweight" governor could to determine which candidates believe that every human life is express oneself and grow as an
As Gore and Bush have cam­be embarrassed by the "experi­best represent Catholic teach­sacred from conception to nat­individual," said Caponigro. 
paigned for a White House elec­enced" vice-president. In 1980, 
ings." ural death; that people are more The U.S. Catholic bishops said, tion, the Lwo candidates have there was a similar scenario, Roos One theme the bishops feel is important than things; and that "In society as a whole, thosefought on many various issues, said. Ronald Reagan appeared to important for Catholic voters to the measure of every institution who exercise authority have aincluding where and how the be the more likable candidate, but analyze is the candidates' views is whether or not it enhances duty to respect the fundamental
debates would be conducted. people perceived that President 
on the life and dignity of the the life and dignity of the human human rights of all persons." 
Before settling on t.ne formal com­Carter was smarter. 
human person. The topic of dig­person." Although every human hasmission-sponsored debates, Bush "The question for Reagan was if nity encompasses many differ­The issues of family, commu­basic rights, "If we arc going toproposed meeting Gore on NBC's he met the minimum standards ent issues including abortion, nity and participation are also claim rights, we also have"Meet the Press" and CNN's for being president. is he compe­euthanasia, violence and health prominent in the current presi­responsibilities to help institu­
"Larry King Live." tent enough?" Hoos said. "Bush is care. Hefcrring to the current dential campaigns. tions grow and thrive," saidGore charged that fewer people liked; he needs to show compe­debate among presidential can­"We need laws and policies Caponigro.
would watch as the competing tence on policy issues. Gore is 
didates regarding Medicare that encourage families to stay He said that one way to exer­networks would refuse lo show smart enough; he needs to show plans, Caponigro said, "Think together," said Caponigro. cise rights is to vote. 
another network's programming character and likeability." 

RETIREME:NT JNSIJ.flANCf MUTUAL FUNDS 'rnitst SERVICES. TUITION FINANCING 
There are those who shy away from challenges. And then there are those who travel 9,000 miles looking for them. 
..... . •••••••••••••• t •••• . ••• . ••••••••••••••••• . . •••••• . ••• . . .... ". +. 
Un"iversity of Notre Dame 
Come to our information meeting, our table, and interview with us! Information Meeting Wednesday, October 4 • 7:00 -9:00 PM• DeBartolo Building 
Interviews 
Thursdav, October S • 9:00 AM -5:00 PM 
Friday, October 6 • 9:00 AM -5:00 PM in Flanner Hall 
Information Table is located at La Fortune 
Student Center •Wednesday, October 4 
,zco 9:00 AM -3:30 PM 
~~ ~.,. · For more information contact Jackie at 
\ 
(800) 424-8580. option I. 
www.peacecorps.gov 
El Paso/ Juarez Seminar


• 
2000-2001 
5-Day Immersion into Border Culture January 4-10, 2001 
Emphasis on: 
-participation ia dimensions ofthe immigrant experience 
-examination ofsocial, cultural and international forces on the border 
-discussion, rdlecti.on, and faith sharia g 


Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
Callus for\

The TIAA-CREF n)
. ufree
information .· 
package · ,,,

Advantage. 
Year in and year out, empb'fees at education and research institutions have tu~ned to TIAA-CREF. 
THE TIAA-CREF 
And for good reasons: 

ADVANTAGE 

,__________
• Easy divers,ficJtion among a range of ex;iertly managed funcis 
Investment Expertisr. 
• A solid history of perfprmance and exceptional 
Low Expenses
personal service >--·--·-------­
• A strong commitment to low expenses 
Customized
• Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options 
Payment Options
For decades, TIAA-CRE1: has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 ompuses across the country invest for­
Expert Guidance 
and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF. 
ww~_J:iaa-cref. org 
For more complete information on _our securities products, plea_se call 1.800.842.2733, ext 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest.• TIAA-CREF lnd1v1dual and lnst1tut1onal Services, Inc di,tribute, the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Serv_ices, Inc distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements.• TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co. New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
Applications Available at the Ce.o.ter for Social Concerns SOCIAi_ 
Due Ocrobcr 24 CONCERNS
. 

W~RL-ATION 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000 COMPILED FIWM THE OBSERVEll WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Milosevic decries opposition: In his first address to the nation since a disputed election, Slobodan Milosevic on Monday branded his opponents puppets of the West A wave of unrest aimed at driving him from power swept Yugoslavia, and the gow~rnment responded by arresting dozens of strike lead­ers. The general strike and road blockades brought Yugoslavia to a virtual halt. in the most serious challenge yet to l\1iloscvic's 13­year rule. 
Germans celebrate unity: Germans gathered in a festive atmosphere to open their celebrations of a decade of reunification Monday, but behind the music and merriment was agreement that the country remains less than united. Several hundred citizens drawn from all or Germany's 16 states converged on a reunification event. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Rapists could face HIV tests: Rape victims could demand HIV tests of their sus­pected assailants upon arrest, and adults could be jailed for 10 years for sending pornography to 17-year-olds or younger under a last-minute flurry of bills in the !louse. Currently, rape victims have no legal right to demand that a suspect be tested to find out whether the person has HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, lawmakers said. 
Bush will appear on Letterman: 
Regis and Oprah seemed to work, so now George W. Bush is taking on David Letterman. The Republican presidential candidate has agreed to appear on the CBS "Late Show" on Oct. 19, executive producer Maria Pope said Monday. Democratic rival Al Gore visited Letterman on Sept. 14. Bush's appearance, via satellite, on Letterman's show during pri­mary season last winter was somewhat awk­ward because the Texas governor had trouble hearing the comedian. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Unidentified man found near cemetary: An unidentified man was found dead behind the wheel of a burning car in a cemetery on the _city's east side, just a few feet from the gravesite of legendary jazz gui­tarist Wes Montgomery. Police said there is no clear indication yet whether the death was a suicide, a homicide or an accident. The car had a Marion County license plate. No time or cause of death will be known until an autopsy is performed Monday, police said. Montgomery died in 1968 and is one of 58,000 people interred at the cemetary. 
Market Watch 1012 

Dow 
10,700.13 +49.21
]ONES 
Composite
Up· 

Volume:
10454 

l,197,190,0!6 
AMEX: 942.99,'Tu:f''~iii!\fj~~1l{32A:];,1fj~J Nasdaq: 3568.90 -103.92 NYSE: 666.37 +3,33 '\l\i 
S&P 500: 1436.23 -0.28 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY  %CHANGE  SGAIN  PRICE  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  t0.45  -,0.25  55,50  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  •J.47  .1,44  40.12  
DELL COMPUTER (DELL)  -5.07  ·l.56  29.25  
APPLE COMl'UTER (AAPL)  ·5.H}  ·l.50  z.i.25  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT)  -UM  -I.I')  59.12  

WEST BANK 


Associated Press 

RAMALLAH 
Israeli troops rolled out tanks in a show of force and sent helicopter gun­ships aloft Monday to bat­tle Palestinians wielding rocks and automatic rifles, as riots raged through the West Bank and Gaza Strip, leaving scarcely a Palestinian town or village untouched. 
The spiraling violence, now in its fifth day, has killed at least 51 people and injured more than 1,000, nearly all the casu­alties Palestinian, and left hopes for a Mideast peace accord in tatters. Both sides acknowledged that talking peace was becom­ing untenable with a full­scale war being waged in the streets. 
In an urgent bid to restore calm, U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright announced she would meet Wednesday in Paris with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. 
The two sides "must find a way ... to end the current psychology of confronta­tion and begin to restore the psychology of peace­making," Albright said in a statement Tuesday. 
Even as pleas for restraint poureJ in from around the world, the climbing casualty count fueled Palestinian fury and spurred revenge attacks against Israeli civilians, particularly Jewish set­tlers. 
On the road to the Jewish settlement of Ariel in the West Bank, a 24­year-old Israeli was shot and killed -reportedly when he stopped to change a tire. A school bus on its way to the Jewish settle­ment of Shiloh came under fire, but no one was injured. 
Fighting also boiled over into Arab towns in Israel proper, rattling the nerves of Israelis who have long feared an intefadeh, or uprising, by Arab citizens of the Jewish state. Eight Israeli Arabs were killed in Monday's clashes alone. 

Police and Arab rioters fought a three-hour battle in the alleyways of the Israeli town of Akko. Rioters trashed shops in the Israeli Arab town of Nazareth, Jesus' boyhood home. In the coastal city of Haifa -often cited as a model of harmonious coex­istence of Jews and Muslims -Israeli Arabs staged a general strike in sympathy with Palestinian brethren. 
COLOMBIA 

Clashes paralyze state, residents flee 
largely cut off by road from the Colombia, or 1-'ARC, threatened to 
Associated Press 

rest of the country. destroy vehicles that venture onto 
BOGOTA "Businesses have begun to close the highways. 
Clashes between leftist guerrillas their doors, food supplies are run­"People are heading for and right-wing paramilitary ning out and it is impossible to get Ecuador," Roger Hernandez, town groups have paralyzed a southern gasoline," Putumayo state Gov. secretary of the small coca-grow­Colombian state and sent residents Jorge Devia told reporters in ing town of La Hormiga, told The 
fleeing toward the Ecuador border, Colombia's capital, Bogota. Associated Press by telephone. local officials said Monday. There were unconfirmed reports Putumayo, which borders both 
The army said troops were trying of high casualties on both sides in Ecuador and Peru, is Colombia's to control the violence between the the clashes that began Sept. 21. largest producer of coca plants. e armed groups battling over control Putumayo's food supplies were raw material for cocaine, with an of coca plant production in south­also drying up as rebels of the left­estimated 140,000 acres cultivat­ern Putumayo state, which was ist Revolutionary Armed Forces of ed. 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000

page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

1 • CA.LL (219) 245-6085 
2. GO TO THE BROADWAY THEATRE LEAGUE 
BOX OFFICE AT THE MORRI9 PERFORMING ART9 CENTER 
3• ~LL RIGHT J FOR 20 BUCKS 
YOU GOTTA. WORK A LITTLE, THE 19T 2 ROW9 ARE 120 CA9H AT THE DOOR, ON 9ALE 2 HOUR9 BEFORE THE SHOW 
TONIGHT, WEDNESD~Y & TlfCJRSD~Y ONLY! 
MORRIS PERFORMING ~RTS CENTER 
•UNITED 


~ 
AIRLINES 
·•,:rffl-r.aiteforrent. co• Broadwa:y Theatre League 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Conservative leader criticizes Bush's view 

Associated Press 
AUSTIN. Texas 

A day after George W. Bush's videotaped addrnss to the Christian Coalition. conser­vative leader Pat Hobertson criticized 
the GOP. presiden­tial nomi­nee for not "swinging like a fighter'' at Al Gore and said 


13ush risks Bush losing the election. 
Hobcrtson said Bush has taken the party's conservative base for granted with his attempts to appeal more to moderates. 
"It's a dangerous strategy just to ignore your base, espe­cially to play like something you're not," Robertson said Sunday on CBS' "Face tlrn Nation." 
'Tic's got to begin hitting Gore where Gore's vulnerable; the big spending, possibly dou­bling the size of government," Hobertson added. "He's got to come out swinging like a fight­er. And if he doesn't do it, if he continues this sort of, be-nice sort of approach, I think he's going to lose." 
Bush spokesman Dan Bartlett said Robertson "obvi­ously hasn't been closely fol­lowing this election," in which Bush repeatedly says Gore's policies -from tax cuts to energy to education -shows he shows the trusts govern­ment more than voters on key decisions. 
"Governor Bush has outlined and explained very clearly that Al Gore's spending proposals will threaten the nation's eco­nomic future," Bartlett said. 
Polls show both candidates have overwhelming support from their base supporters and are focusing now on mod­erates and swing voters, who they believe will determine who wins. 
Tensions between Bush and religious conservatives were high this weekend after he scrapped plans to skip the Christian Coalition meeting and addressed it videotape. Some members were ofTended that he did not attend person­ally, choosing instead to spend Saturday practicing for his debate with Gore. 
Robertson said conservatives are not energized. "They say, 'Why doesn't he get in there and start really hitting Gore,"' Hobertson said. 
Opponents question safety of RU-486 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Abortion opponents con­tended Sundav that the new abortion pill may be unsafe and raised the possibility of government 
action to See Also 
limit its use. Reform "Abortion Party presi­
protesters back 

dirntial can­
priest"

didate Patrick page 11 Buchanan called RU­486, the early-abortion method approved Thursday by the Food and Drug Administration for use in the U_nit~,d States, "a human pesti­cide. 
As president, "I would use all the power of my office, including appointments at the FDA, to prevent its being put on the market," Buchanan said on NRC's "Meet the Press." 
Green Party candidate Ralph Nader, also on NBC, countered that use of the drug is "up to the W,?man, not the govern­ment. 
"This is a pill that's been shown to be safe in Europe for numerous years," Nader said. "And it's preferable to surgi­cal procedure." 
Sen. Tim Hutchinson, R­Ark., said on ABC's "This Week" that there are "a lot of questions" surrounding the istration banned RU-486 safety of the pill -and that imports in 1989, opposes the outcome of next month's abortion. Vice President Gore election will determine supports the pill option. whether Congress has enough Robertson said the pill votes next year to put limits should be reviewed to deter­on its use. mine if it's a "danger to 
Eleanor Smeal, president of women." the feminist Majority The pill blocks action of a Foundation, also on ABC, said hormone essential for main­the drug had undergone taining pregnancy. It has been "tremen-used by millions d o u s of European
"I would use all the 

review" women since it by the power ofmy office, was approved FDA. nearly a decade
including appointments 
"They ago. Anti-abor­
at the FDA, to prevent its 
c a n tion advocates protest being put on the market;" have fought hard as much to keep the drug as they out of the United
Patrick Buchanan

want," States since it she said reform party first appeared in of abor­presidential candidate France. 
tion foes. "This is a safe, effective method." 
One lawmaker, Rep. Tom Coburn, H-Okla., said after the FDA's decision that he would promote legislation calling for severe limits on which doctors could administer mifepristone, the pill's chemical name. 
The Christian Coalition's Pat Robertson said on CBS's "Face the Nation" that the drug's approval was a "political ploy" by Democrats to corner Republican presidential nomi­nee George W. Bush on the subject. 
Bush, whose father's admin-
F D A 

Commissioner Jane Henney approved mifepristone based on studies that found it 92 percent to 95 percent effective in causing abortion. 
Complications are rare; seri­ous bleeding occurs in 1 per­cent of women. But the pill­caused abortion requires three doctor visits and, to ensure it is performed accu­rately, the FDA restricted its use to doctors with certain training and mandated that detailed patient-information brochures be given to every woman. 
THE BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 
Amsterdam  0usseldorf  Mexico City  Shanghai  
Atlanta  Frankfurt  Milan  Singapore  
Auckland  Hamburg  Monterrey  Stockholm  
Bangkok  Helsinki  Moscow  Stuttgart  
Boston  Hong Kong  Mumbai  Sydney  
Berlin  Jakarta  Munich  Tokyo  
Brussels  Kuala Lumpur  New York  Toronto  
Budapest  Lisbon  Oslo  Vienna  
Buenos Aires  London  Paris  Warsaw  
Chicago  Los Angeles  San Francisco  Washington  
Copenhagen  Madrid  Sao Paulo  Zurich  
Dallas  Melbourne  Seoul  

We are pleased to announce the following undergraduate and master's event (non-MBA): 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Tuesday, October 3 Greenfields 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
6:30 p.m. 

Resume drop dates (Go Irish System): Start: Friday, September 15 End: Wednesday, October 11 
www.bcg.com 
page 8 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 3, 2000 

Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
Equities Divisional Information Session Wednesday, October 4, 2000 Alumni Senior Club 
6:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. 
Investment Management Divisional Information Session Sunday, October 8, 2000 For location, contact Career Services 7:30 p.m. -9:30 p.m. 
Investment Management Divisional Information Session Wednesday, October 11, 2000 Center for Continuing Education, Room 210 6:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. 


MINDS. WIDE OPEN!IM www.gs.com 
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws. © 2000 Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
Zl6ZA-S1270-09-00 

Tuesday, October 3, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Senate approves new spending bill 
. $23.6 billion plan would alter flow of Misssissippi River 
As,ociaced P n:ss 
WASHINGTON 

The Senate gave final approval Monday to a $23.6 bil­lion energy and water package, inviting a pre-election veto fight with President Clinton over administration plans to alter the flow of the Missouri River. 
The measure was approved, 57-37, but supporters fell 10 votes short of the 67 needed to overturn the veto that Clinton promised. Republicans voted 51-1 for the measure, while Democrats opposed it by 36-6. 
The bill, loaded with scores of home-district projects for law­makers, passed the House over­whelmingly last week. But it has been ensnared in a fight over a provision that would block the administration from moving toward letting the Missouri River return to a sea­sonal, ebb-and-flow of it.'l water levels. 
In a battle that could echo in the presidential race, the administration says such a move would help endangered wildlife. Opponents say it could cause floods and hurt farmers and shippers. 
The plan is so unpopular in Missouri, where opponents include lawmakers of both par­ties, that many Hepublicans have welcomed the veto battle as one that could throw the battleground slate to GOP pres­idential candidate George W. Bush. Among the Missouri Democratic opponents are Gov. Mel Carnahan, who is running for Senate, and House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo. 
"I guarantee this veto will have political ramifications. 
and I will ramificate," Sen. Kit Bond, H-Mo., the chief' foe of the proposal, joked afterward. 
Sen. Pete Domenici, an author of the bill, said many Democratic senators "have asked for things in this bill and they've been granted things in this bill that their states desper­ately need." 
Rut noting that Clinton has signed similar language in four prnvious years to block chang­ing the river's flow, Domenici said Democrats were being "asked to vote against this" because Clinton "has suggested that this vear, if it's in this bill, he will veto it." 
Clinton called the measure "deeply flawed" and "anti-envi­ronmental," citing the Missouri River language and cuts in his proposals for restoration of Florida's Everglades. the California Bay delta, salmon populations in the Northwest and other issues. 
Now, what did your n,other tell you about using Napster? 
Is it piracy or 1st Amendment rights? Are they violating copyright laws, or is it a free Internet? She probably doesn't have a clue. 
Do you? Now with over 300 issues to research, react and speak out about, you can definitely be in the know. 
Plus, when you log on to 
http://university.speakout.com, you could win $2500 just for registering. Speak your mind and get paid for it. Now, what would mom think about that? 
Research 01ay help cancer fertility woes 
article about the findings,
Associated Press 
Hobert Casper and Andrea Juriscova of' the University ofWASHINGTON Toronto said the research wasWomen having cancer thera­"an innovative and exciting
py may one day be able to 
potential new treatment to pre­avoid the ovary damage that vent oocyte destruction afteroften leaves them unable to cancer treatment." Oocyte is
bear children, researchers 
the scientific term for the eggreport. 
cells of mammals. 
Scientists studying chemical While the paper focuses onand radiation damage to mice ovary damage caused by radia­
cells report promising results 
tion, Tilly said in a telephonewhen the action of the chemi­interview that similar protec­cal ceramide was blocked. But 
tion also occurred in tests
they caution that considerable 
involving doxorubicin, awork is chemother­
needed 
apy drug. 

before the "This holds the promise 
T h e 

method ofselectively preserving researchers 
could be 
had earlier

ovarian function and
used in found that 
humans. preventing this tragic 
the death of 

Blocking 
side of the treatment the ovarian 
ceramide 
ofcancer.,, c e l I s 
preserved 
involved a 

the fertility 
series of 

of eggs nor­Dr. Richard Kolesnick chemicals, m a I I y 
Memorial Sloan-Kettering including
destroyed in 
ceramide.

Cancer Center 
cancer treatment, researchers report in the October issue of the journal Nature Medicine. 
"This holds the promise of selectively preserving ovarian function and preventing this tragic side effect of the treat­ment of cancer," said Dr. Richard Kolesnick of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. 
"For the first time we have a promising prospect for a small molecule that could be given to women and girls undergoing cancer treatment to protect their ovaries," added Jonathan Tilly of Massachusetts General Hospital, the paper's senior author. 
Tilly cautioned that tests have only been done in mice and that tests are under way to determine the treatment's effect on human ovary tissue that has been transplanted in mice. 
"It's very difficult to put a time frame on-," when the treatment could be available for humans, he said. "We will push ahead as quickly as we can." 
In an accompanying news The conver­
sion of a 

molecule in the body called sphingomyelin into ceramide by an enzyme sets off the death of several types of cells in response to chemotherapy or radiation therapy. 
So the scientists conducted tests to see if blocking the sphingomyelin pathway by using the compound sphingo­sine-1-phosphate would pro­tect the eggs in live animals. 
They injected S 1 P into the sac surrounding one ovary in each of a group of normal mice and then exposed them to a dose of radiation that would be expected to destroy most of their eggs. 
Two weeks later the ovaries receiving S1P appeared healthy while the unprotected ovaries showed almost complete destruction of eggs. 
"There was absolutely no damage at all that we could see," in the ovaries with S1P, Tilly said. "The ovaries looked normal ... the mice were cycling normally, they ovulated and were able to produce embryos. By all criteria they were normal." 
W-hen the game is on the line, we're there for you! -FREE Checking •Low-Interest Student Loans • Convenient ATMs •FREE Visa Check Card • FREE Internet Banking • Great Rates on Auto Loans ~ NOTRE DAME 19033 Douglas Road FEDERAL CREDIT UNION Notre Dame, IN 46556 Independent of the University For People. Not for Profit. 800/522-6611 www.ndfcu.org  




Monday, October 2, 2000

pase JO The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

'"!y"'I
#,\. 

then 
•. ,.,..ff .,,. ..,., 
·" 
~:-,: .4 ·' 
( t..)' / , I ' 
i 

·? 
/ 


I
,...... , 




tf.1 :a. i;~J r;, 
' .• 1· 
; t1tnd~nt, 

?11 ,/ 

,:: l.as s Qf 2:-r11 r.: l ..i. H ~J 4J' 2-.y··l2
Ithe c:;.qu.,ag,, in: l1 

cam~!'.! 

I 
'lf;.'TJYI
I.front o.f
,_w1r:i.7,i?S 

J 

~r i y Vi] J:J
I Ro 1 £'!"1 s,t··· c,.,,, (t' 



Tuesday, October 3, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Abortion protesters back priest 
Associated Press 
ROCKFORD.Ill. 

An annual anti-abortion rally was overshadowed by the case of a Roman Catholic priest accused of ramming his car into the city's only abor­tion clinic and hacking at the building with an ax. 
The rally Sunday at Holy Family Church in Rockford was scheduled long before the incident, but it commanded much conversation among the approximately 1,000 protest­ers. 
"I don't agree with his meth­ods, but I appreciate his heart." said the Rev. David Broom. 25, pastor of the Faith Center nondenominational church. 
The Rev. John Earl is charged with burglary and felony criminal damage to properly for the alleged attack Saturday at the Northern Illinois Women's Center. The clinic wasn"t open and there were no injuries. He was freed after posting $10,000 bail. 
Earl, 32. a priest at a Catholic church 30 miles away, was stopped inside the building by its owner, who fired two shotgun blasts to scare him away. 
"It's hard to support those kinds of actions when you stand for life, but we definitely do support him in standing up for life," Jeff O'Hara, 37, said at Sunday's rally. 
Police have not disclosed a possible motive for the clinic attack. It came two days after government approval of the RU-486 abortion pill and was at the office of Dr. Richard Ragsdale, who successfully 
challenged Illinois abor­tion laws in the 1980s that he claimed were so strict they 1 i m i t e d womens access to the procedure. 
Earl, who was staying with his par­ents in DeKalb, has honored his bishop's 
"It's hard to support those kinds ofactions when you standfor life, but we definitely do support him in standing up for life. " 
Jeff O'Hara protester 
instructions not to speak pub­licly about the case. But his father, .Iose ph Earl, came to his son's defense on Sunday, saying "the truth will come out" at an Oct. 9 court appearance. 
"My son has taken a vow of obedience to the bishop that he would not speak to the media," Joseph Earl told The (Rockford) Register Star news­paper. "But as much as we love and respect the bishop, I want you to know that not everything that was in the paper happened." 
The Diocese of Rockford said the priest's activities had been restricted while it investigates the allegations. A message left at the church, St. Patrick's Church in Rochelle, was not returned. 
After Sunday's protest, about 100 people attended a 
meeting at Temple Baptist Church in Rockford w h c r c Joseph Scheidler, director of an anti­a bo r tio n group in Chicago, said Earl's attack had damaged 

the movement. 
"It reflects on all of us; it's not a good thing," he said. 
The attack drew the ire of an Illinois women's organiza­tion that sai.d the church and anti-abortion groups must take responsibility for violent acts against clinics and doc­tors who provide abortions. 
"We've had some victories and some losses, but we've never driven a car into a building. I'm appalled by the violence," said Gay Bruhn, president of the Illinois chap­ter of the National Organization for Women. 
Talks resume in L.A. transit worker strike 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

After nearlv 12 hours of talks, transit ai1thorities hand­ed union negotiators a propos­al aimed at ending a strike that has shut down most bus and rail service and stranded some 450,000 people who rely on public transportation. 
James Williams. general chairman of the United Transportation Union, repre­senting 4,300 bus and rail operators, said he planned to review the proposal by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and submit a coun­terproposal Monday. 
"I am encouraged by the progress we made," Williams said Sunday night. He declined to give details about the pro­posal's content. 
Brenda Diederichs, MTA's chief negotiator, said Sunday's talks in Pasadena were among the most fruitful. 
The transit strike began Sept. 16, idling most of the MTA's bus and rail routes throughout Los Angeles County. 
Mayor Richard Riordan met individually with negotiators, conducting shuttle diplomacy between rooms of the hotel where the talks were under­way, MTA spokesman Marc Littman said. 
Riordan, who put in his first appearance to advance the talks Saturday. said he was "cautiously optimistic" an agreement would be reached. 
Gov. Gray Davis weighed in as well, signing a bill union leaders said could remove one obstacle to a contract agree­ment. The new law keeps workers' collective bargaining agreements intact for at least four years if the MTA decides to split up into smaller transit zones. 
The strike has hit mainly the county's working poor who cannot afford cars, students, the disabled and the elderly. The MTA says it is forfeiting about $2 million per day in fares and tax receipts. 
"Everyone's hurting," Littman said. "The common chord today is that everyone wants to end the strike." 
Littman said that even if a tentative agreement was immediately reached, the strike would probably continue at least until Tuesday because rank-and-file union members were unlikely to return to work until they had ratified it. 
It would take a day or two after that to resume service. Buses would have to be fueled and inspected, and electricity would have to be restored to 60 miles of train track. 
eMOC 

Presidential Debate Watch 
Tuesday, October 3, 8 pm 
in the Lafortune Lobby facing Sorin 
.freefood &drink provided discussion to follow 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. No<re D•me. IN 46~56 024 South Dining Hall, Noue Dame, I~ 16556 
[DITOll IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EorroR  BUS!Nf.SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gill~spie  Tim Lme  
AsST. MANAGING EDITO~  OPERATIONS MANAGF.R  
Christine Kraly  Brian Kessler  

NEWS EDITOllt Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDIT0lh Kerry Smi1h SCENf EDITOll, Amanda Greco SAJNT MARY'5 EvrroJt: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITO!I: Elimberh Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAG!'II: Par Peters AD DUIGN MANAGlilt: Chris Avila Sys-rrMS AUM!NISTRAT0I\: Mike Gunvil!e Wu ADMINI~TRATOII: Adam Turner CoNTROLLElt: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOH: Jose Cudl.r 
CONTACT Us 
0rFICE MANAGF.R/GENFIW. INF0..............631-7471 FAX........................................................ 631-6927 ADVERTISING..................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.eJu EDITOR IN CHIEI'......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDJTOR/AssT. ME ................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. .....................................631-5313 NEWS ...................................................... 631-5323 
obscrver.obsnews. )@ml.edu V!EWPOIN'f.. ...............................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE.................... ...................................631-4540 observer.scene. J@nJ.edu SAINT MARYS ...... .....................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ....... ..........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at hup:!Joburver.11d,du for daily updates of campus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-to•the 
minute forecists 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online fea!Ures for spe· 
c,al campus rnverage

and rates of print ads 
archives to se-arch for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
co meet the editors and 
August l999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the indcpendenr, daily newspaper published in print and on.inc by the studcms of rhc University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including advcrrisements, is not governed by policies cfche .1dministration ofeirhcr instiru1iu11. The Observer reserves the right tu refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed a.< accuratdy and objecrive!y as possible. Unsigned editorials reprcsem the opinion of the maiority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Edicor, Assistant Managing Editor and department edirors. Commcmaries, letters and columns present the view, of the authors and nor ne,;cssarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The.free expression of:tll opinions through letters is encoura.ged. Letters to the Edi tor must be signed and must include co111ac1 infurnmion. 
Q11mio111 ur,ardmg Ob.:m,er poli.·i,s should b, direct• ,dto Editor i11 Chi,fMilu Connolly. 
O
THE BSERVER Tuesday, October 3, 2000 
Excuse me, your pants are ringing 
I am bitter. At the tender age of 21 I am very quickly turning into a hard­ened. bitter young lady, based on the not-so-subtle signs I've been receiving on cam pus from the start of school. I've been told, in not so many words, that I Molly am unpopular and 
Strzelecki 
unwanted. I've been 
shunned. along with 
a majority of read­

ers just like many of Growing Up to you, yes you, by the be a Kid small population of star-quality wannabes lurking underneath trees outside the dining hall, on the front steps of classroom buildings and even sauntering across the quad. And do you know why I am exiled from even com­municating with these chosen ones'? 
Because I do not have a cell phone. 
For all the really "cool kids" the phrases "Call Me!" and ''I'll call you!• have taken on a whole new meaning, such as from the Latin callus meus: "Call Mc!" in the middle of class; and "Call Mc!" while I'm in the dining hall. J\nd from the pig Latin I'll-hay all-Cay ou-Yay. 'Tll call you!" in the elevator going up to the third floor, and 'TH call you while walking out of my room (which has a phone). and you are only two doors down. 
Don't get me wrong, I love to talk on the phone at all hours of the day and night. and I have the phone bills to prove it. But is it really imperative that your boyfriend or girlfriend know that you have just started taking notes on chapter two of your business law class? 
And don't get me wrong, because I think cell phones can be and are very useful. Lord kuows I could have used one this summer when I had a blown­out tire on I-55, had no idea where I was or how to change a spare (still don'tl and there was no gas station or general phone area within a mile. It seems as if this cellular phenomenon, though growing very quickly in the past decade, suddenly exploded on Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's campuses this year. 
It almost makes sense, with the vast array of calling plans available. These plans can let you have all sorts of' cellular freedom, such as 
5.000 minutes for a nickel. low rates for calling anywhere in the world, free voice mail, etc. 
But you know what? If you are hungry, and in desperate need of Papa John's, all you have to do is go back in your room, pick up the phone and dial. It's free. That means no calling charge whatsoever. Wake up kids. We're col­lege students. We are inherently poor. We can barely afford the Papa John's that we are ordering. 
Thirty percent of people in general own cell phones according to Science News. And I'm pretty sure that 5 per­cent of those can be attributed to the sauntering few on campus, because apparently by walking very slowly while on a cell phone, you can hear the other person better. 
But why do most people have cell 
phones anyway? So they can stay in 
touch, for an emergency, to do busi­
ness, to have people know where they 
are at all times, yada, yada, yada. But 
who, in college, wants people to know where they are at all times? Ask yourself' this, as you dish up 
pasta, chatting it up on a cell in the dining hall or as you palm the tiny morph that 
I'm sure Alexander Graham Bell never dreamed his invention would come to: do 
you really want peo­ple to be able to reach you at all 
times? Even when 
it's a Friday night, you're out with the girl or guy of your dreams, things are going well. you're "watching a movie," and your pants start ring­
ing? There is noth­ing suave about it 
or around it. Well, there is, but I'll tell you about it later. 
On the phone. That has a cord. That's in my room. 

Molly Strzelecki is a senior writing major al Saint Mary's College. She can be e-mailed at strz7359@saintmarys.edu. lier col­umn appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those of the author and not neces­
sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Approving of human life 
Next time you enjoy a cold beer, take a look at the side of the can. You'll find a warning on there from the federal gov­ernment imploring pregnant women to refrain from drinking alcohol lest they injure their unborn children. "That's nice," you might think. "The govern­ment cares about babies." 
Wrong. The government cares about wanted babies. While the Surgeon General is busy trying to keep pregnant women from drinking things that might injure their unborn children, another agency, the FDA, has been busy approv­ing a pill developed for the sole purpose or killing unborn children. It's all left up to the luck of"the draw. 
If you're lucky enough to be a "want­ed" child, the Surgeon General is there to protect you. l!owever. if you're unlucky enough to have been conceived unexpectedly or perhaps show signs of a physical or mental disability -anything that might make you "unwanted" ­
then the FDA is there to make sure you 
don't live long enough to make a nui­sance of yourself. 
Worst of all, this callous split person­ality is not limited to the government. Just take a look at the medical commu­nity today. If an unborn child is "want­ed" there are no lengths to which doc­tors won't go to preserve that life, even performing surgery on children while they arc still in the womb and taking heroic measures to save tiny infants born months premature. However, if that child is unlucky enough to be "unwanted." doctors have at their dis­posal an arsenal of pills, scalpels and suction devices designed to quickly extinguish these voiceless children who are most in need of our compassion and care. 
Forget all the religious slogans on the one side and feminist propaganda on the other. The issue is simple: no human life depends on the approval of others for its value. Ilistory is full of horrifying examples of what that kind of attitude can bring about. Yet that is exactly the attitude of our government and the medical community. 
If you're convenient, you're important and worthy of protection. But. if you're inconvenient and unwanted, not only won't we protect you, we'll put our stamp of approval on devices and meth­ods developed to hasten your death. The sad reality is that, when a society bases its respect for human life on such trivial­ities as race, religion or circumstance, it's not the actual value of life that is diminished, but the value of that society. 
Emmet Day Graduate student Fischer Graduate Residences Sep1. 29, 2000 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS THE EVIL H. R.. DIR.ECTOR. 
E ,-:::::=::~~~=~=~-, r-:;::::::::;:::_:_:_:::_------. 

t--::::-=============:--1 ~ EMPLOYEE5 &HOULD u 
c 
IT'$ NE.W IF ® NOT BE. ALLOWED ~ 
WE INCLUDE i TO MOVE COMPANY t
WHAT NEW EVIL 00 
PDAs AND
YOU BRING ME, 

i
UNION 5TEvJARD 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I think that for any generation to assert itself as an aware human entity, it has to break with the past. so obviously the kids that are coming along next are not going to have much in common with what we feel. Thet 're going to create their own unique sound.•· 
Jim Morrison musician 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, October 3, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
Presenting a script on free speech discussions 
"Lights. Camera. Action!" tors and writers won't be able to work arc talking to freshmen Pat and Brian famous throughout America for his 
Scene 1: Newspapers were scattered because of the University's limit on work-about why Notre Dame doesn't feel like expertise, but he is more than famous messily atop the endless rows of oak ing hours allowed in the work-study pro-Notre Dame anymore. The same conver-within the Notre Dame community -he tables, lined like soldiers in a military gram." She pauses, then adds: "This sation has been heard all over campus. In is much beloved. parade, in the University dining hall. school is becoming totalitarian." Her fact. it is a round table discussion that "What do you think about the way she Cavernous, with enor­friend. startled by the news. skids __...,_.,....__ would most likely garner unani-wrote this book? Do you like it'? ls it mously tall ceilings, Britanny to a halt. A skinny freshman mous agreement among all working for you?" he asks. The first ­the dining hall Morehouse crashes into her back with ~~:;t:==;;;=~~ seniors. It starts somewhat and only -answer came quickly. "I like seemed spadous the edge of his tray. "Are ,--,:;......,,.-,.,,-c...,,.,.,..-,,--like this: "When I was a how she doesn't force her opinion on you. enough to house the you kidding me?" she freshman we camped She states the facts with subtlety. Even entire South Bend shouts, making a few . out all night for foot-though her subject twists, turns and
All About

homeless population. diners look up from _,.""'., ball tickets and it upends our perspectives on controversial
Anthropology
Portable bins, lined their food. "That's ~ wa~. a great time issues such as abortion and infanticide, vertically with metal ridiculous ... , she doesn't push her point. She lets the dividers. captured the what's next?" And it begins reader figure it out for herself." 
1 
discarded trays overflowing with uneaten At the same like this: "I Strains of John Lennon's "Imagine" food. Placed in the far left corner of the time, back in ,..,_..,___.__..,.. .._,__.__ remember the began playing in my mind. "Yeah," I room, the bins were resorted to only the corner next -~.J..-'--#---•:m-Graffiti Dance thought, "Isn't that what it's all about? whenthe conveyer belt carrying empty to the tray bin, ----,r+--, ---111--H-----I still have Letting everyone earn their adulthood by 
trays. like baggage claim in an airport, now complete---..1~-::ikf.----my shirt ... " deciding what to think and do on their was so full it could not accept any more. ly filled with _:=~~ ~~~~~~--lr----And it contin-own. after careful consideration and edu­It was past 2 p.m., the cut-off time for thc remnant._<; .All-1---il'O\ ues in this cation on the matter?" "Cut!"
......,._,..i;;; ;i!S:!::~~~:;;:::::::_
lunch, and some stragglers lounged com­of many a stu-,,..~"'---' way: ''Weren't This answer hit the mark. Taking it to fortably, engaged in conversation or casu­the next logical level, we can generalize
dent's lunch, a ~~~'1:t~--1 those nights 
1 v'f?rrli~(L.~-~.

ally perusing the student daily newspa­hefty, blonde ..,.,v•::;; at Bridget's this principle across the board. The main per, The Observer. A few others still student wear-some of the characteristics needed to be a good writer roamed the voluminous bullet-style cafe­ing black glass-best ever ... ?" can be applied to everything else. To be a teria section, wrinkling their noses at the cs hunches over Stories of good writer, indeed, a good student, par­protein for the day -meatloaf -or the paper and marshmallow ent, teacher, even (gasp!) a good impatiently standing in line for the more slurps his soup. fights, reminisc-University, is to state a fact, then an opin­edible Chinese stir-fry. The food service He puts his spoon ing about 6 a.m. ion, all the while keeping your ears open area was separated from the dining hall, back into the bowl jumping jacks on to what others have to add. so that while a student is gathering his long enough to football mornings What's missing? The missing key is not meal, he is held in suspense as to just shake his head in dis-and fond memories allowing those who have prepared their how difficult it will be to find an empty gust. His eyes scan of a student-run news-minds to think as an adult, the opportuni­chair in which to sit during the culinary down the article on the · .---,_ paper (student-run is the ty to act as an adult. Let's leave the rush hour. front page while reviewing ~ "adult" in "adulthood"; otherwise we just
,e'~~ ey word here) that was 
Emerging from the kitchen side, two what he has just read. · based in a central, convenient have hoods. "It's a wrap." female students, most likely seniors for Deciding he has had enough, he I{; location. Imagine that! "Cut!" they wore sweats, are talking. One walks stands so quickly that one might miss the Final Scene: In a second floor DeBartolo Brittany Morehouse is a senior in front of the other, calling over her roll of his eyes. He allows his newspaper classroom, a gathering of anthropology American studies and anthropology dou­shoulder so that her friend can hear her. to fall unceremoniously to the ground. students have placed their desks in a ble major. She offers this disclaimer: "Did you hear about The Observer? It was "Cut!' cooperative semi-circle. The arrangement descriptions in this article are based on on the front page today?" she asks. They Scene 2: Huddled together over allows for much discussion, debate and fact but names have been changed to pro­both step carefully through the open Whoppers and fries, four men decked out sharing. No pop quizzes, no long lectures, tect the innocent. entrance so as not to spill their tall drinks; in Alumni Hall glory sit unaware of the just pure intellectual engagement. The The views expressed in this column are three glasses each. "It may no longer be two ResLife business suits seated at the professor is guiding, not controlling the those ofthe author and not necessarily run by students, which means a lot of edi-table beside them. Seniors Brian and Pat ebb and flow of the discussion. He is those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Clarifying the drinking 'Olympics' 
As the major player in an affair that has gotten com­pletely out of hand I feel it is necessary to set the record straight about the so-called Big House Olympics. 
First of all, this started out as an idea for a party after I had attended several similar parties at the beginning of this year. This was supposed to be a party for seniors who studied abroad last year. The paper was correct in stating that it placed the different abroad programs on teams to compete against each other in several drinking games. This is where the issue is. The problem is that I was promoting immoderate levels ofdrinking (and I was stupid enough to put it in some ridiculous e-mails). 
It was called the Budweiser Big House Olympics because Budweiser was making some banners for the event and the term "Big House" is what my friends and I call an off-campus house that is near where the event would have taken place. 
Mr. Kirk did not threaten me nor did anyone from Residence Life or Student Affairs. It is true that I would have been in some serious trouble had this event taken place, and this was brought to my attention by Mr. Kirk. However, the discusi;ion I had with Mr. Kirk focused on him trying to get me to understand why this was a dan­gerous idea. There was the possibility with this event, like any that involves alcohol. that people could have hurt themselves as a result of binge drinking. The event that I was organizing could have led to one of my classmates getting hurt. That is why it was cancelled. I sent out an e­mail to everyone on the list ofstudents who studied abroad that the event was cancelled. That's it. There was no mention of Mr. Kirk, Student Affairs or the Residence Life Office. 
If I thought it was dangerous, why was I organizing it? Well, that's the real issue here and all I can say is I didn't seriously think anyone was going to get hurt. If I did I would be pretty sick. Parties are supposed to be fun and somebody getting injured was not part of the planning process. I think that is why Student Affairs had issues Wlth the event. The fact is the potential for danger was there, and if someone had gotten seriously hurt I would not be able to live with myself. I guess Ishould thank the students who brought this event to Mr. Kirk's attention here for preventing this possibility. 
Do I think this party was more dangerous than any of the others that go on every weekend? No. It did involve drinking games, but so does every other party I have been at this year. It was actually significantly smaller in numbers (in kegs and people) than several parties I will have attended this past weekend by the time this letter is printed. 
Do I think it would have been a great time? Of course, there were dozens of students really excited by the idea and teams were organizing for weeks by making their own T-shirts and uniforms. It was a theme party with lots of enthusiasm, probably the most of any party I have been involved with since I have been here. Had it been pulled off safely, I'm sure everyone would have had a blast. 
In the end, thankfully enough, all it amounted to was just a few e-mails I had written and a few phone calls. No one was hurt and no one had a party. It could have been a great time. but if someone had gotten hurt it could have ruined his or her life. and I would have been partially responsible. The fact is, for better or worse, nothing hap­pened. 
Do I think it was worth putting on the front page of The Observer or even a bathroom stall'? No. That's a whole other issue though. 
Brian Jochum senior Alumni Hall Sept. 29, 2000 
Building community at St. Mary's 
The senior Belles of Annunciata Hall at Saint Mary's College are hosting a community gather­ing for Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's women. In the spirit of our pride week, we encourage all members of the collegiate commu­nities to reflect on the positive aspects of their respective schools. Saint Mary's Pride Week gives us the opportunity to celebrate our individuality without comparison to others. 
Over the past four years, we have witnessed Saint Mary's pride ·nourish and thrive. We encourage Saint Mary's women to be active in the events planned for this week. Pride Week is a legacy we leave this campus. We hope the tradi• tion of pride in Saint Mary's College continues long after we have graduated. 
As a women's college, our Pride Week also serves as a celebration for all women. We invite the women of Notre Dame and Holy Cross to join us for a special gathering in the Annunciata Hall lounge (fourth floor of Holy Cross Hall), on Wednesday, Oct. 4 at 8:30 p.m. 
Cindy Traub, Melissa Wheeler, 
Kathy Ubert and Megan Kosel-Shaughnessy 
Annunciara Hall Scaff 
Emily Koelsch 
Pride Week 2000 Co-Organizer 
Seniors 
0cc. I, 2000 


ALBUM REVIEW 
New Tragically Hip leaves much to be desired 

Season has proven itself to be yet 
Set List

another hit 
October 3, 2000

for Thomas 
Joyce Athletic Center
and the rest ofTwcntv. 
5.e.L

!\nd • the 
Bent

crowd didn't 
Crushdisagree. 

Argue

Met with 
Girl Like That

deafening 
Kody

roars from 
3 a.m.

the twcn­
Last Beautiful Girl 
tysomcthings Lonely People and high Long Day schoolers that Time After Time 
By TIM BODONY 
Scene Music Critic 
The Tragically llip are huge in their native Canada. The qucsiton is, should American audiences care? 
America adnpted the Barenaked Ladies after Canada grew tired of them. but this is unlikely to happen with the !lip. As their newest release Music @ Work dcmonst.rat.cs, The llip play a solid and polished brand of rock that is virtually undistinguishable from count­less other bands that proliferate the market today. The Ilip would complete­ly lack an identity of their own if it were not for the domineering and instantly identiliable voice of Gord Downie -all at once the band's greatest asset and liability. 
There is a body of evidence to suggest that enjoyment of Canadian rock music is not an acquired skill. The quintessen­tial progressive rock trio Rush comes to mind right away. Its vocalist, Geddy Lee. could extend his voice far beyond the normal male vocal range, prompt­ing compar• isons to air­
port noise
·Music ~~ Work and animals in distress. Nevertheless,
TheTrc1gically 

Rush built up a legion ,if dedicated fans who 
H1ip 
Sire R4!!Cords 

apparently were not turned away
Rating 

by Lee's 
shrill vocal 
style. 
Thanks to 

""-'~--­
Downie's pnculiar phrasing and some­what nasally vocal tone. The Tragically llip's music has this same love-it-or­leave-it quality to it, which may or may nut depend on some sort or genetic pre­disposition. (Scientists at the Human Genome Project should look into this right away.) 
The primary fault of Music @ Work is the awkward relationship between the lyrics and the music that accompanies them. On paper, some of these lyrics seem impossible to sing gracefully. For example, the opening lines to "Train Overnight," "I loaded the variables like masterpieces from / under the germ-led advance. / I saw yuur compass on a sea of' frayed cable / and aspects of vision afloat in a glance." Or even worse, the first lines of "Sharks," "Sharks don't attack the Irish, it's mostly the Australians. There's nothing accom­plished by these splashing citizens." Downie somehow manages to sing these words, but more than often it is far from graceful. The blockish quality of the lyrics requires Downie to stress odd words and syllables and vary his pitch widely. In the end, this just becomes a bit agitating. 
Music @ Work does have its bright 
spots. "The Completists" is the strongest effort un the album, a three­minute radio-ready track complete with a neat hook and lyrics that arc actually lyrical. However, this song still can't compete with "Bobcaygeon," the high­light of the Hip's last record Phantom Power. 
Unfortunately. the musical highlights of the album !'ind the band sounding like someone else. "Tiger the Lion," which begins with a haunting collage of' distorted strings. gradually dissolves into an outro jam reminiscent of Pink Floyd's "Comfortably Numb." Too bad it only lasts for one minute. Tabla domi­nates the soundscape of "The Bastard," a three-chord rocker with hints of' Kula Shaker. 
When left to their own devices, the Hip deliver a product that is less than memorable, but nonetheless fully Canadian (thanks in large part to north­ern-oriented song titles such as "Toronto #4," "The Bear" and "Lake Fever"). 
llowever, the bright spots are not bright enough to rescue Music @ Work from mediocrity. The llip certainly have their own distinctive voice. but they fail to say anything remarkable with it. 
CONCERT RIEVIEW 
Matc:hbox 20 leaves local JACC crowd satisfied 
his trademark soupy croon.
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
But then again, the confidence Scene Music Criric 
is to be expected. After a brief stint co-writing with guitar leg­You wouldn't go calling Hob 
end Carlos Santana on the Thomas a risk-taker. 
Grammy award-winningThomas. the ZS-year old lead 
"Smooth" in 1999, Thomas isn't singer of the mulli-platinum 
a kid anymore. The lyrics and alternative band Matchbox 
melodics on Mad Season show 
Twenty. probably wanted to 
the influence of a more sea­play it sale when he opened his 
soned musician, and Thomas concert with his chart-topping knows it in his performance.
single Bent Monday night. After 
But don't go expecting a dynam­nearly six months of heavy 
ic stage presence -or any sur­radio play, the first single ol'f 
prises for that matter. Thomas MB20s sophomore release Mad 
grasped the microphone in his 
left hand and rythmically beat on his chest for most of the night, rarely deviat­ing from cen­ter stage, playing his hits as he went. The rest of the band was about as uninspiring You're Gone," Matchbox Twenty showcased his acoustic talents Jayhawks for a final number, in their stage isn't expected to be a dynamic singing Cyndi Lauper's "Time Thomas finally gave the crowd presence as musical performance or full of After Time." Following up with some unpredictability, combin­Thomas was, stunning stage effects. They're "Hang" and Mad Season's "You ing for an explosive Holling preferring expected to sing the hits. And as Won't Be Mine" and "Hest Stones number that lit up the instead to Thomas swaggered through his Stop," the band showcased their stage -and the crowd. back their hits set, laden with radio-friendly strength in smooth ballads. Wrapping up with a crowd­up with favorites, the crowd provided With the newer songs featuring popular performance of the '97 strong guitar th!'ir affirmation through their a three-piece horn section hil Push that gave the band its and drum backup vocals. And while MB20 embedded behind the piano. fame and fortune, Thomas con­backup. rarely deviated into drum or guitar and drums, Thomas' per­cluded the night with a mix of' 
But then guitar solos that often showcase formance of Mad Season's new new and old. Ending with the again, that's band members' individual tal­ballads showcased a new musi­upbeat "Black And White the kind of ents during a concert setting, cal depth that puts a new spin People" -undoubtedly another b a n d Thomas and Twenty know why on the band's perennial future hit -Matchbox Twenty Matchbox they're there -to deliver the strength. left a hit-hungry JACC crowd Twenty is -a hits. And that's what they du so Gaining momentum as the satisfied. band of hits. well. show went on. the band picked Of' course, it could have been in habited the JACC for tile two-hour snt, Matchbox Twenty proved that thnir second LP is just as hit-worthy as the first. Hut there·s a new aire about the band this time around. No longer 

1 

llang You Won't Be Mine Best Stop If You're Gone Mad Season Angry Heal World Back 2 Good • 
Hncore: 

Busted Push Black !\nd White People 
dazed by newfound-stardom, 
From familiar favorites "Heal That isn't t.o say that Thomas up the pace with funky new gui­mure spectacular.
the new Thomas moves through World," "3 am," "Long Day," 
or the band isn't capable of ver­tar riffs on the title track "Mad But then again. that's a risk
his sets with a sultry confidence 
and the new "Bent" to up-and­satility. Slowing the show down Season" and "Angry." Joining that a hit-loaded band doesn't
that comes powr:ring through 
coming releases "Crush" and "If at the halfway point. Thomas forces with opening band The need to take. 

Can we speak freely? 
Events in the last two semesters have raised questions about students' rights on campus. This
OCUS 
week, The Observer looks at free 
OTHE 

speech at Notre Dame. 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000 BSERVER 

. Students question and administration defends speech policies 
By ERIN PIROUTEK In Focus Writer 
The first amendment of the Constitution guarantees Congress can not abridge free speech or the right of the people to peace­fully assemble. 
But Notre Dame, a private institution, has the power to abridge those rights on its campus. Du Lac sets firm rules about demonstrations and speakers, and while the rules are designed to protect students, at the same time they do limit freedom. 
Many students wonder if the limits du Lac places on student speech is merely to save the University from potentially embarrassing situations. 
Pennission denied 
Senior Julie Hodek hates sweatshops. Last fall, she decided to pass out anti­sweatshop leaflets. Since she had con­cerns about the manufacture of clothing sold at Notre Dame's bookstore, that seemed like the logical place to distribute information. Football weekends, when the Bookstore is crowd_ed and phenomenal amounts of clothing are sold, seemed like a logical time. 
Although Hodek attempted to follow du Lac's procedures for registering a demon­stration, she was not granted permission. Student Affairs denied the request because of congestion in the bookstore area and garbage generated by leaflets. 
Adding insult to the denial, said Hodek, was that credit card companies were free to solicit business in front of the book­store. 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life, said the situation was a 
see SPEECH/page 4 
Women's Resource Center still feels probation's sting 

Abortion material on the literature rack at the Women's Resource Center led to the club being put on probation in 1998. Since then, the group has been under tight restrictions. 
By KA TE STEER 
In Focus Writer 
In recent years, there is one event which. for critics of University policy, most clearly demonstrates the need to loosen restrictions on student speech. 
This event happened in April, 1998, when the Women's Resource Center (WRC) was severely sanc­tioned for distributing information on abortion. The WRC has never been the same. 
The allegations against the WRC first appeared in campus publica­tion Right Reason, v.ith the testimo­ny of then-junior Christine Gabany's trip to the club's office. 
Gabany requested information on abortion from the group, which advertised itself as a resource cen­ter for women in crisis and often sponsored talks on women's issues such as rape, pregnancy and eating disorders. The WRC stailer on duty presented Gabany with information including a Planned Parenthood pamphlet, names and phone num­bers of area abortion clinics as list­ed in a phone book and an alleged listing of procedures and prices at a Niles, Mich. clinic. In a letter to The Observer, Gabany urged the Notre Dame community to "stop the out­rageous actions of the WRC." 
In response to the allegations, Joe Cassidy, then-director of Student Activities, assembled an investiga­tive committee. In a letter to WRC oflicers, Cassidy pointed to a clause in du Lac which says student orga­nizations may not "encourage or participate in any activity which contravenes the mission of the University or the moral teachings of the Catholic Church." He set forth three conditions for the WRC's con­tinuation: a two-year probation, the removal of material which "pro­motes or is value-neutral on the issue of abortion" by the beginning of the 1998-1999 academic year and mandatory regular meetings between himself and WRC officers. 
The incoming otlicers adhered to these conditions. But the Faculty Senate disapproved of the censor­ship of materials in the resource center. Student Affairs Committee chair Ava Preacher questioned the appropriateness of those conditions and asked Cassidy to rescind them. The Student Affairs Committee called the probation a "violation of the academic freedom of student 
see WRC/page 4 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000 

page 2 The Observer . IN FOCUS 
ONE PERSON'S VIEW 

Dctn't avoid 
disc1L1.Ssing our dis~greements 
Free speech. 

11 is the lifeblood ofdemocratic society, the fun­damental right we have as /\mcrican citizens to speak our minds And while few would call Notre Dame democrali,;, it is still a society. It is a com­munity of students, !'acuity, 
staffers and adminL..,trators 
who live and work together. 
And like any community, we 
are bound to disagree. 
In most communities. 
when people disagree, they 
talk about those ,fo;agree­
nwnts. They debate. They 
argue. They learn from each 
other. And they do it in pub­
lic. 
But at Notre Dame, too 
often, we cannot have those 
discussions, al least not on a 
public stage. Decisions that 
affoct every pc~rsun living and 
working on this tampus arc 

made behind closed doors, often with minimal 
input from the students. the people for whom this 
institution exists. 

The oflicers, the Board ofTrustees, and their 
leaders. the Board of' Fellows. make the decisions 
at this University. Sometimes they ask the student 
body for input. Usually they don't. According to 
du Lac, stud1m1.s arc not even allowed to contact 
Trustees or ofliccrs, except for purely personal 
communication, without going through the Ollice 
or Student Affairs first. 

But morn troubling than Notre Dame's deci­sion-making proi:css is the ways in which the University silcnc,is student groups which disagree with il'i policies. Through a maze of' club approval rnquircments and an obstacle course of event r<\gistration red tap<\, instances of vocal disagree­ment from students arc mull1cd. 
To its credit, Notre Dame maintains an open speak<•rs policy, m<\aning that an approved stu­dent group can bring anyone they want to speak on campus. But to bring someone to speak, a group must first be approved. And a group can­not be approved if it holds positions that disagree with the Catholic Church. 
One need only to look at events to sec how this alfocl.., debate under the Dome. Notre Dame's administration has a history of restriction. They did it to the Women's Resource Center. They've been doing it to gay student groups for years. They're thinking about doing it to The Observer. 
This restriction hurts the elTorts of campus activists. But more importantly, it mutes discus­sion of our disagreements, to the detriment of us alt. 
When was the last time you heard any two­sided debate on this campus about abortion? What about homosexual marriage, or birth con­trol? Those arc some of the biggest social issues of our time. but it's rare to hear anything other than the samr, arguments from the Catholic Church that people have been making for years. 
Student complacency, even apathy, certainly docsn 't help efforts to foster discussion, but it can not be denied that University policies hurt those effort'> as well. And ifwe can't have those discus­sions, we can't truly understand those issues. And ifwe can't understand them, how are we expect­ed to make informed moral choices about them? 
Discussing the divisions among the Notre Dame family won't hurl this community; it will strength­en it. And allowing truly free, unfettered debate about dillicull is~ues won't make Notre Dame look bad: it will improve the education ol'the stu­dents who attend this wonderful university. 
And shouldn't Lhat be what this community is all about? 
'/'he oiews e.rpressed in this column a.re those of the author anol not necessarily those ofThe Ohserne.r. 

IN FOCUS STAFF 
Editor: Tim Logan 
Photography: Tony Floyd 
Art: Jose Cuellar. Katie Annis 
Faculty say free speech must be protected at any university 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
In Focus Writer 

Most Notre Dame students are 
passionate about football and even 
their class work. But students tend 
to be much less passionate about 
free speech. 

1-<rce speech is a crucial part of 
education to their professors, how­
ever. 

"If I can't go into a classroom and 
give you all sides of an issue, I'm not 
giving you an education," said Ava 
Preacher. assistant dean of the 
College of Arts and Letters and a 
former !<acuity Senate member. 
"Students need to be able to explore 
the issues themselves.'' 
The ability to speak freely is 
essential at a university because 
universities are places to discuss dif­
fering viewpoints. said senate mem­
ber and engineering professor David 
Kirkner. 

"The university is a place where 
free speech is more important," he 
said. "It's fundamental to the defini­
tion of' a university." 
Education means more than learn­
ing material well enough to get a 
good grade on a final exam, accord­
ing to philosophy professor Ed 
Manier, chair of' senate's Student 
AtTairs Committee. 
"It's a question· of personal 
growth," he said. 
Part of that growth. he explained, 
involves students learning to make 
up their own minds about complex 
issues. 

"If you can't explore ideas, you're not being educated -you're being indoctrinated," said Preacher, also a film, television and theater profes­sor. "If we have faith that our faith is strong. then· we know our stu­dents will make the right moral choices." · 
Fully exploring certain issues can be a challenge at a Catholic univer­sity. But to many professors. that investigation is crucial, and students must balance obedience to the Church in general with obedience to their conscience on particular issues. 
"To say otherwise is also to render the term "Catholic University" inco­herent since universities by their nature must not simply 'obey' par­ticular formulations of doctrine," Manier said. "It is instead their dis­tinctive function to question and test all such formulations." 
Furthermore, such questions should not be bound within class­room walls, Manier adds. 

"Ir those habits aren't rooted in your whole life, you're not going to bring 100 percent to the classroom," he said. 
Many students would agree that their Notre Dame education extends bevond their course work. 
.:College is all about dispersing int'urrnation," said Joe Smith, former president of' the Progressive Student Alliance. "Students should be able to speak freely outside of class. Wn're all adults here." · 
Many Notre Dame students do nut show similar concern about free speech. 
"In recent times ... more has been hoard from the Faculty Senate than from the students," Kirkner said. 
For example, when the Women's Hesource Center (Wl{C) was put on probation a few years ago for mak­ing information on abortion avail­able, it was the Faculty Senate that 
Essential to 

took a lead on the issue. 
The senate supported the WRC, and its resolutions placed the issue on the agenda of the Academic Council, an influential group of fac­ulty and administrators. While the Senate can not change University policy. the Council can, and the fac­ulty group has "right of agenda" with the Council, something the Student Senate lacks. 
That is just one or many reasons why students arc often reluctant to deal with controversial issues. But some see other reasons. Some pro­fessors believe that students simply do not care. 
"I think the students are generally apathetic," said engineering profes­sor Joe Powers, a former Faculty Senator. 
Manier explained that the unwill­ingness of many students to deal with this issue may be a symptom of' larger cultural tendencies. 
There is a "view that's prevalent in our culture," Manier explained, only certain areas of one's life are worth exercising freedom in. Those areas usually do not require public debate or common goals. 
"Everything about a university should be organized to challenge that apathy. I don't think everything a\Jout this University is organized to challenge that tendency to be apa­thetic," Manier said. 
However, Manier, Preacher and Kirkner see additional reasons for students not being more outspoken. 
One problem is that students are 
not aware of certain channels through which they can speak out. 
"I think students feel disempow­ered. Dulac seems very strict," Preacher said. She added that most students do not read DuLac careful­ly, and there is also little direction in DuLac about what to expect in hear­ings. Therefore, students of'ten do not know where they can take their voice. according to Preacher. 
"I think students feel disempow­ered because there's not much clari­ty in the procedures," she said. She contrasted these procedures to those of the Office of Hesidence Life, which Preacher believes arc much easier for students to understand. 
Students do not know when they cross the line into unacceptable speech, Preacher said. 
That uncertainty also makes stu­dents less likely lo exercise free speech because they do not want to alienate professors or tlw adminis­tratiou, accordiug tu Preacher. 
"Notre Dame students am extremely polite," Manier said. "If you're going to be polite with some­one, you're not going to debate reli­gion or politics with him.'' 
Instead, students want to "keep the relationship going" with the University, according to Manier. 
A problem with that, however, is that many students sec that relation­ship with the University as a parental one, Preacher and Manier pointed out. Students therefore believe the University's administra­tion is an authority to obey, 
Tuesday, Ocrober 3, 2000 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 3 • 
ducation? 
Speaking freely 

"The university is a place where free speech is more important. It's fundamental to the definition ofa university." 
"I support the University's right to control hurtful things. disrespectful things. At the same time, it's hurtful, especially to us when we're trying to open up a respectful dialogue." 

Molly Morin co-chair OutreachND 

"ff you can't explore ideas, you're not being educated -you're being indoctrinated. Ifwe have faith that ourfaith is strong, then we know our students will make the
Ava Preacher 
right moral choices.
Asst. dean Arts & Letters 

"We tried to make it as easy as possible. I can't think of the last time we didn't allow a demonstration. " 
Preacher explain cd, 
The problem with such a view, Manier said. is that students will not be the best they could possibly be if they are accustomed to doing only what they are told, 
But to these professors, limits on free speech not only harm students, limitations a.lso harm the University as a whole. 
"Legally speaking, a university could do whatever it wants .... The question is whether it is well advised to do so." Powers said, "A university is extremely ill-advised to do things to suppress free speech." 
According to Preacher, if' the Cniversity did any~hing to restrict free speech. Notre Dame's place in the influential U.S. News & World Hoport Hankings could drop, In addition, Preacher said new profes­sors will not want to come to a school ii' there is a chance their rights may be limited inside or out­side tho classroom. 
Another argument commonly for­warded by f'ree speech proponents is that when speech is limited in one area, limits in other areas become more feasible. 
"Notre Dame students' rights of free speech, free press and freedom of assembly are inextricably linked together in attempts to improve the integration of academic and cam­pus life at this University," Manier said. "Arbitrary limitations of free­dom in any of those areas endan­gers each of the others." 
Kirkner expressed a similar view, 
"It's very dangerous to start toy­ing with your basic free rights," Kirkner said. 
However, some members of the Notre Dame community believe lim­itations on free speech do exist in certain areas. particularly when it comes to student gruups. 
Part of the PSA's goal. in fact, is to change the club recognition process so that students would vote on whether a dub receives recogni­tion instead of administrators mak­ing the decision. 
"If students get together, they very frequently have fewer rights than thev would as individuals," Manier said. "Student organizations that deal with controversial issues ... should have the same sort of freedoms as professors in their classrooms." 
However, according to Powers, free speech can be dangerous. 
"lt's a danger I'm generally will­ing to live with because I think the alternative is worse," he said. 

Bill Kirk Asst. VP for 
Student Affairs 
However. he added that a university should restrict free speech under "extremely rare" conditions, 
"Free sr1eech can be misused," Powers said. "Some people have their own ends." 
To illustrate this point, Powers used the hypothetical situation of the Ku Klux Klan asking to speak on campus. I-le predicted that a number of "rightfully indignant" people would protest if the KKK were allowed to have a rally on campus. Powers added that he would be in favor of Lhe Cniversity not allowing the KKK to speak here. 
At the same time, Powers pointed out that preventing the KKK from speaking here would establish a principle that would raise questions about which groups the University should allow to speak on campus. He pointed out that what is offen­sive speech to some may be perfect­ly acceptable to others. 
"It's very hard to say This is hate speech,"' Powers said, but the illus­tration raises something to remem­ber. 
"[Free speech is] a difficult issue and an issue that universities con­tinually havB to be engaging to find the right way to exist in the soci­ety," Powers said. 

KEVIN OALUM/The Observer Philosophy professor Ed Manier speaks at a 1998 rally. Manier, current chair of the Faculty Senate's Student Affairs Committee, has been a vocal critic of University restrictions on free speech and assembly. He argues that the free­dom to voice dissenting opinions Is essential to the academic mission of the University. 
PSA plans to push ND to change policy 
By JASON McFARLEY 
In Focus ~ 1ritcr 

Aaron Kreider calls the issue currently topping the Progressive Student Alliance's {PSA) agenda a "campaign for free speech." 
But the sociology graduate student, a founding member of the activist Notre Dame club, knows that the undertaking is as much a matter of students' rights as it is about the group itself. 
That's because the campaign comes largely in response to frustrations Kreider and the PSA have experienced with University rules ever since the organization's founding in February 1998, 
"This [campaign) is the result of various experi• ences we've had over the past few years with rules we disagree with," said Kreider, treasurer and past president of the PSA. 
Senior Joe Smith, another former president, agrees. 
"We're always looking for new issues," Smith said. "This one springs from what the PSA has been attacked on in the past." 
Smith said that, in particular, two run-ins with the Student Activities Office (SAO) inspired the PSA's interest in the free speech issue. 
The first came in the 1999 spring semester, when Student Activities cited the PSA for hanging unap­proved posters advertising club events in O'Shaugnessy Hall. Du Lac, the University guide to student life, stipulates that "student organizations and residence facilities may use University bulletin boards to announce activities and to advertise, pro­vided the posters receive a stamp of approval from the Student Activities Office." 
But Smith. who said the rule is enforced arbitrari­ly. noted that Notre Dame officials disregard unsanctioned corporate use of bulletin boards, which du Lac also addresses. "Non-university busi­nesses for profit are not allowed to use University bulletin boards," according to the 2000-2001 hand­book. 
"A quick check of any of the bulletin boards in the halls shows that the wrong people are getting a chance to speak -businesses and corporations. not students," Smith said. 
The postering incident netted the PSA the organi­zation's first probation. 
The second came last February after the group was reprimanded for passing out unauthorized anti-sweatshop literature outside the Joyce Center during Junior Parents Weekend activities. While du Lac doesn't specifically prohibit leafletting. the University considers the act a demonstration, and as such, it "must be registered in ½Titing with the assistant vice president for Residence Life." 
The SAO originally placed the PSA on probation­.... ary status until the end of the semester, but by early March, the Office of Student J\.ffairs had lifted the charge. 
This semester has brought a new sense of pur­pose to the PSA, according to Kreider. 
"Our goals now are to get some of the du Lac rules changed," he said. "This eould have far­reaching implications for student media. campus demonstrations and club recognition." 
To begin work on the issue, the PSA plans to form a coalition, tentatively called the Coalition for Free Speech, with other campus clubs. Kreider said he hopes to garner the support of about 10 core groups and to organize a coalition founding meeting early next week. 
Their goals include: placing club approval in the hands of student government, not Student Activities; revamping the poster approval policy; eliminating pre-approval for leafletting; allowing sidewalk chalk; ending the policy requiring 30-day approval and University chaperone for club trips; and allowing door-to-door canvassing by clubs. 
In addition, Kreider said proposals are in the works to recommend turning the Fieldhouse Mall into a free speech zone for demonstrations and set­ting up poster kiosks for accessible display space, Kreider also noted that The Observer's possible loss of its independent status may factor into the PSA's free speech campaign. 
Kreider said the coalition will try to schedule a meeting with Father Mark Poorman, vice president of Student Affairs, shortly after mid-semester break in October. Following the meeting, the coalition would possibly revise its proposals and then official­ly submit them to Student Affairs, 
While Kreider envisions reaching compromises with the University on some issues, he said, "if the University doesn't want to work with us, we'll rally and protest." 

• page4 The Observer . IN FOCUS Tuesday, October 3, 2000 
Large One Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 
Speech 
continued from page l 
misunderstanding. Concerned with congestion in the bookstore area, he denied student requests. But once he realized commercial booths were there. he allowed students to protest in that area. 
IIodck has a differing view of the intent of University policies. She said that she brought the issue of commercial booths to Student Affair~· notice immedi­ately. Yet the bookstor!' protest was not approved until the last game of the season. 

... 
"If it had been an issue that wnuldn't embarrass the University, Student Affairs would have accommodated me," Hodek said. 
Speakers. demonstrations und informational tables all require students to follow specific poli­cies outlined in du Lm:. All need advance approval from either Student Aclivitics or the assis­tant vice president nf Hcsidencc Life. 
Red tape 
Students wanting to react immediately to currenl events arc slowed by the wait for ofii­r.ial approval. 
"You can't act on anything with any kind of rapid response," Hodek said. 
Kirk maintains that University policies are simple and neces­sary. fie considers the logistics of a demonstration to ensure it doesn't intcrntpt teaching and learning activities. Demonstrations with amplified sound can't disrupt a class, for example. A demonstration can't block access to a University building. 
"We tried to make it as easy as possible," Kirk said. "I can't think of the last time we didn't allow a demonstration." 

But a student could never decide on Friday morning that they'd like to pass out leaflets at Fieldhouse mall that afternoon. Free speech would probably gain approval -just not on that timetable. 
These timetables, howeven for demonstrating and sponsoring speakers. however. apply only lo recognized student groups and individual students. 
A matter of recognition 
An unrecognized. student group faces many challenges to freely express their opinions. 
"Our efforts arc often stifled by the University's control," said Molly Morin, co-chair of OutreachND. a group dedicated to providing a welcoming envi­ronmcnt for gay, lesbian and bisexual students. Gay student groups have applied for recogni­tion many times in the past -OutreachND most recently applied last spring -but they have never received it. 
Morin noted that OutrcachND has difliculty advertising events and cannot directly sponsor speakers. 
"We're not trying to impose our views on anyone. We're just trying to present them," Morin said. 
One way they address their mission is in support meetings. But as an unrecognized group it's difTicult to let students know about the meetings. 
Nor can it gain approval for posters. Members of'ten put them up, but they generally are removed. Meanwhile, other non­approved posters -those ofstu­dents trying to sell a car or offer tutoring service, for example ­
4 
often remain. 
Mary Edgington, director of 
Student Activities, denies that 
Outreach posters are a specific 
target, noting that regulations 
vary between buildings. Staff 
doesn't always have enough 
time to remove all un-approvcd 
posters. 
"We don't target one group 
over another at all," she said. 
Nevertheless, as long as 
Outreach remains unrecognized, 
they'll have to be creative to 
publicize their message. 
A chance to be heard 
While the rules governing stu­
dent groups can be limiting, 
individual students have greater 
freedom. · 
"It's actually a sign of progress 
that we are allowed to speak as 
individuals," said Morin, who 
has spoken about homosexual 
issues in dorms and to a class. 
Any individual student can 
invite a speaker to campus, as 
long as they follow all proce­
dures for approval -a privilege 
unrecognized groups don't have. 
But logistical and financial con­
cerns coupled with the approval 
process make inviting a speaker 
a daunting task for an individ­
ual. · 
Still, approved speakers are 
guaranteed a chance to say 
what they want. Notre Dame's 
"open door" speaker policy is 
designed to promote free 
expression of ideas. The speaker 
is allowed freedom to present 
any opinion they choose. 
"We've had people speaking 
on both sides of a whole lot of 
issues," Kirk said. 
Even the open door speaker 
policy. however, creates ques­
tions about the balance between 
freedom and control. 
A student group can sponsor a 
speaker who disagreed with the 

moral teachings of the Catholic Church. But the group itself could not hand out literature on the same topic. Speakers have freedom to present these contro­versial opinions; student groups do not. 
Officials explain that there is a distinction between speakers and student groups. 
"An individual can promote an idea in a public forum without institutional approval," Edgington said. "A club or rec­ognized organization is an extension of the University," 
Student groups, therefore, 
· must yield to the University's interpretation of Catholic moral teaching. although most groups' activities fall within these limiL'i. 
Finding what's appropriate 
"I can't remember a time we ever said no to someone because of what they had to say," Edgington said. 
At times though, students and administrators disagree about the appropriate boundaries. 
"I support the University's right to control hurtful things, disrespectful things," Morin said. "At the same time, it's hurtful, especially to us when we're trying to open up a respectful dialogue." 
Across the wide spectrum of organizations on campus, it's rare that a student group's activities oppose Catholic moral teaching. Few unrecognized stu­dent groups exist. Although these groups arc the minority. do they have a place in Notre Dame's Catholic mission? 
"In an institution of higher learning, you've got to be able to present respectfully dissenting opinions," Morin said. 
But at Notre Dame, University policy makes some of those opinions difficult to express. 
WRC 
continued from page 1 
members of organizations deal­ing with academically, religiously or politically controversial issues." 
In March of' 1999, Cassidy rejected Preacher's requests. 

Two years after the controver­sy began. the WHC is in opera­tion, though without freedom to present all materials as resources. The issue remains volatile. Ann Firth. assistant to the vice president of Student Affairs and member of the inves­tigative panel, defends Cassidy's decision. 
"The decision was rendered by the entire three-person board that was asked to look into what had occurred, and we were unanimous in our decision mak­ing," she said. Cassidy left the University this summer. Preacher maintains the Faculty Senate's stance against his deci­sion and the faulty proceedings leading to the punishment. 
The issue is by no means set­tled or resolved, according to Preacher. 
"The question remains, What arc the boundaries of' the issue of free speech in a university community?" Preacher a.-;kcd. 
WHC officer Marnie Bowen still feels the sting of' the condi­tional existence of the Center. "I don't agree with the restric­tions," she said. "What we were doing wasn't a political stance." 
Nevertheless, Bowen said, the WRC must follow its restrictions or face abolition. Until the pro­bation ends, the group will be limited. 
"I wouldn't want what hap­pened to [the WHCJ to happen to other clubs," she said. 
Call today and 11am-2am sun-thurs me•ntion this ad!! 11am-3am fri-sat 


Tuesday, October 3, 2000 page 15 
ALBUM REVIEW 
BEP bring underground hip-hop to mainstream 
On the follow-up to the acclaimed 1998 
By JEFF JOHNSON 
debut Behind the Front (which included 
Scene Music Critic 
the club hit "Joints and Jams"), Los Angeles based hip hop trio Black Eyed The state of hip-hop has undergone Peas lollow in the same vein as groups like huge chang<'s in the past fow years. Where Jurassic 5 and the Roots, attempting to there was once a great difference between bring underground hip hop to the main­the mainstream and the underground, stream. Aptly titled. Bridging the Gap
today it se(!ms that this line is blurred. shows the maturity and diversity of BEP, Once an und11rground and complete with a host of guests to compliment them. unknown, Eminem is arguably the most After touring with groups like >Jo Doubt 
commercially successful hip-hop artist and Lit and having spent time on the ever. Common, a favorite or underground Wn,rped and Smoking Grooves tours, this fans for years, has a top 10 single with Cali trio feels they have matured musically "The Light." -and they want to tell the whole world 
Tours like the Warped Tour and many about it, The sounds on Bridging lhe Gap others are joining hip-hop acts like range from funk to jazz to latin to calypso Jurassic 5 and Dilated Peoples with rock to straight up hip-hop. bands. The Roots, pioneers in attempting On the opening track, "BEP Empire," to bring underground music closer to the one of hip-hop's finest beatminers. DJ mainstream, combine live instrumentation Premier, lends a hand. Over Primo's cut.5 with hip-hop, complete with drums, bass, and scratches, the trio, comprised of horns and a human beat-box. Many or Will.iam, Taboo, and Apl.dc.ap. brratr these artists are out to fatten their pockets, the ever-popular "bling! bling!" rappers 
In Bridging the Gap, BEP continue their mission to make the hip-hop scene "get orig­
but some are on a grander mission -to with lines like, "Every rapper's talking 
inal," through one of the most creative and brilliant underground albums of the year.
save hip-hop. Enter the Black Eyed Peas. about Tm gonna kill somebody,' but you ain't hip hop to me,'' "Your hip-hop's emerging lyricists Chali 2Na. New York,'' featuring classic hip-hoppers stvle is dated The chorus pleads the aforementioned De La Soul, "Hot," "Little, Little" and 
Bridging The Gap and you ain't bling-blingers to "stop now, get original." "Request Line" featuring Macy Gray, come out yet" Perhaps Bridging the Gap's best track, which pays homage to the radio DJ. and "Pick up "On My Own" features the lyrical fluctua­Will.Lam, Taboo and Apl.de.apl may not
Black Eyed Peas your mic, put tions of Mos Def and the musing of Les be the most talented of emcees, but ulti­your money Nubians over a dark piano beat. Toronto­mately they get the job done. While the where your based group Esthero lends their trip-hop album's ti.tie might suggest-a mission big­mouth 1s. stylings to the Peas' latest single, ger than this trio can handle alone,
Interscope Records 
BEP brings a "Weekends," an ode to the nine-to-fiver. Bridging the Gap serves as a reminder to similar tone "Rap Song," featuring the Caribbean live it up and not take ourselves so seri­to "Get sounds of Wyclef Jean, shows BEP com­ously.
Rating 

Original," this paring the feelings toward the women in With hip-hop flourishing, and with help time with their lives with some of their favorite hip­from artists like the Roots, Common, Mos some help hop tracks. Def, Talib Kweli and Jurassic 5, the gap
........ 
from one of Other standout tracks include "Cali to may very well be bridged. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Individual styles of legends clash on collaboration 


nature sound that combines a remarkable and distinctive "Worried Life 
By THOMAS OGORZALEK 
voice and "pretty little Luci.lie," his famous guitar, has Blues" and 
Scene Music Critic 
become almost synonymous with what the blues ought to "Come Rain or be. Clapton has his roots in the British blues scene. His Come Shine" The blues is rarely a triumphant form. A blues album is Unplugged performance is undoubtedly one of the finest are perfect typically a live set recorded in a too-small venue or a set of blues albums of the '90s. examples of raw recordings from a too-poor studio. \>\'hen legends Unfortunately, Clapton is too mellow for King's bombas­how this duo unite, however, the result is frequently quite different. tic and full sound -the pair simply do not gel well. They can combine 
B.13. King, the greatest living bluesman, and Eric seem to trade off verses and lines within songs, rather on a solid Clapton, who makes a strong case for greatest living gui­than trading off lead vocals on songs within the album. On effort. It is the tarist, get together on an album that is squeaky clean and top or their somewhat incompatible styles, the songs loud, Chicago­polished in this summer's Riding With the King. One of the sometime seem forced, as if the selections were not their style songs, most anticipated blues releases in years, this dual effort is own. Particularly horrible is "Marry You," in which the such as "I unfortunately unable to live up to expectations. two men sound nothing more than somewhat confused. Wanna Be" 
B.B. King, a Mississippi native who emigrated to Chicago The result is an overly produced attempt to create a wildly and "Hold On early in his youth (as we learn from a spoken word seg­marketable album. I'm Coming" ment int.he middle of the title track), has long been one of Riding is not totally without merit. The talent of the two where King's the defining artists in blues music. Since the 1960s, his sig-legends is obvious, and when they get a chance to impro-relative 

vise on thrir instru­strength over­ments, a strong suit powers B. B. King and of both of these spec• Clapton's 
Eric Clapton
tacular artists, the smooth mel­jams are simply won­lowness, rele­Reprise Records derful· -controlled gating the Brit and structured, to backup.. 
Rating
f:learly these are fine It maybe the examples of the high case that these 
level of musicianship men got a little ...... 


present in the studio. overambitious The pair is particu­in their larly outstanding on attempt to create a perfect blues album. Perhaps they sim­"Three O' Clock ply wanted lo record an album together for the fun of the Rlucs" and "Help the thing. What is dear is that this super-clean release is not Poor." what the blues are all about, no matter how one slices it. 
As the album goes A ran seeking a fast insight into the impressive talents of on, it seems to get these two men would probably be better served by pi.eking stronger, with more up some earlier work. Both men have extensive portfolios. quiet songs that As solo artists, t.hese are two of the finest bluesmen of the lessen the contrast contemporary era. Together, their styles clash and fail. . between the two However, fort.he student of the blues, there are some defi­
In one of the most anticipated blues albums in years, B.8. King and Eric Clapton stars' voices and nite redeeming qualities. The talent level is high, and vocal styles. when they shine, it is a thing of sheer brilliance. 
combine their talents in the disappointing Riding with the King. 
page 16 The Observer. SPORTS Tuesday, October 3, 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Off-campus relies on running game in win against Farley 
By CHRIS FEDERICO, JOHN 
BACSIK and lAUREN CONTI 
Sports Writers 
Off-Campus remained alive in the playoff hunt with a 14-0 victory against Farley, Sunday. 
With a stifT wind stifling both teams' passing gam.es, they were forced to rely on their legs to move the ball on the ground. 
Quarterback Jamie Stouffer did the job for Off-Campus. which is 2-0-2 on the season. With the passing game shut down, Stouffer relied on her quick feet to move the ball suc­cessfully on quarterback draws and options. 
The Finest, who are 1-4 on the season, however, were unable to make the transition to the ground game. Calling very few running plays. they tried to create a passing game that just was not there. Cnable to pass in the high winds, Farley was held scoreless. 
After an opening possession punt by Farley, Off-Campus started with good field position on Farley's 37-yard line. Off­Campus moved the ball into the red zone. 
On fourth down Farley tried a blitz and Stouffer found Molly Hoss for the touchdown. A missed conversion set the score at 6-0. It remained 6-0 the remainder of the first half. 
Midway through the second half, Farley started on the Off. Campus' 27-yard line after a bad snap on fourth down. On the next play, Farley quarter­back Jenny Geraci found her target for a 17-yard gain, set­ting up first and goal. After three straight incompletions from the 10-yard line, Off­Campus' Anna Benjamin came up with a huge play, batting down a pass to halt the scoring threat. 
On the next drive, Off­Campus moved the ball all the way down to Farley's 2-yard line before being stalled, allowing Farley a final chance drive was ended by an inter­to drive. ception by PW junior, Erin 
Unable to gain a first down, Schulte. however, Farley gave ,Off­The Purple Weasels came Campus the ball right back at close to cracking the tie the 18. 
towards the end of the first 
Off-Campus drove the nail half. Schmidt found Kori Yelle 

into Farley's coffin on the next on two attempts, bringing PW
play when Stouffer scored on a 18-yard quar­terback draw. With the 2­ "We think this win will help us get to the playoffs. and that is our  past midfield. Schmidt's next pass though was interccpt­c d by Walsh  
point conver­ main goal right now. If  captain  
sion, the final score came to 14-0.  we keep playing well, we should get in. "  Melissa Beiting. " I think this  
After  the  was  our best  
game.  orr­ Jamie Stouffer  defensive  
C amp us' Stouffer was optimistic about her team's future.  Off-Campus quarterback  game of the year," said Beiting. "We made the big  

plays when we needed to."
"We think this win will help 
The second half was much

us get to the playoffs, and that is our main goal right now," like the first for both teams, she said. "lf we keep playing penalties and punts, but no well, we should get in." points, 
Walsh started things off with Walsh 0, Pasquerilla West 0 runs by Klinger and Kristen Sunday's game between Kenny and a long reception by Walsh and Pasquerilla West Scanlan. The PW defense took 
was a battle of the irresistible a stand though, stopping the force and the immovable Walsh running game and forc­object. Neither team was will­ing a punt.
ing to sacrifice its first loss of PW used the Schmidt-Yelle 
the year, so each one settled 
connection again in the secondfor another tie. 

half, but Walsh had a more
Penalties and turnovers 
effective tandem. Senior defen­plagued both teams throughout 

sive linemen Rebecca Craigthe game. as each team 

and Angela Polsinelli combined 

appeared to mirror the other's actions in the first half. for a sack and an interception Walsh's first drive looked on PW's first drive of the sec­good, with two runs from ond half. freshman Marlana Klinger and Neither team was able to get a catch by Kay Scanlan. Walsh things going as the second half 
quarterback Lauren Walsh 
wound down and the game

found Scanlan again 20 yards 
ended with no score on thedown the field on the next 

board.

play, but the catch was called Despite the tie, the Purple
back on a blocking penalty, Weasels were pleased withand the Wild Women were 
their play.

forced to punt. 
On their next drive, the Wild " I thought we played well," Women started things out on said PW co-captain Kelly Dries. the ground, with a first-down "Our defense was definitely run by Lauren Walsh. The strong." 
McGiinn O, Breen-Phillips 0 
McGlinn and Breen-Phillips hammered each other to a scoreless finish Sunday on McGlinn field. 
With only two games remain­ing in regular season play, the Shamrocks (0-2-2) and the Banshees (1-1-2) are still ques­tioning their chances for a playoff berth. 
"It really is kind of a toss up with all the ties," BP captain Jenny Wahoske said, "We'll just try to win the last two [games] because that should assure us a spot." 
Play on Sunday was aggres­sive, although both offenses looked shaky throughout the first half. 
McGlinn started the game with the ball, but was unable to make progress and were forced to punt. 
"We didn't do much," McGlinn captain Jamie Glasser said. "We had kind of a rocky start." 
On their first drive, the Banshees chose to implement a new offensive plan, putting in Tricia Keppel as alternate quarterback. 
.However. the switching between quarterbacks Katherine McFarland, Keppel and Kelly Landers failed to gather offensive momentum. 
"That was brand new for this game," Wahoske said. "Obviously, we didn't score, so it wasn't all that successful. But it may just be that we need some more practice on it. We weren· t really ready enough for it to be effective." 
"We accomplished what we wanted to do," BP Coach Corey Timlin said. "We wanted to go to secondary receivers, and we had the open people. Our quarterbacks were just ner­vous." 
McGlinn's defense played a role in shutting down BP's new offense. 
"Their offense did make mis­takes," Glasser said. "But our defense played an outstanding game. It broke up a bunch of passes and really put the pres­sure on their quarterback; she was overthrowing the ball." 
The Shamrocks started off 
the second half on sour note. 
On second and 5, a pass 
intended for receiver Mary 
Lenzini was intercepted by 
Keppel. 
Another BP drive deep into McGlinn territory proved fruit­less. · 
"We had the ball like that, inside their 20, four or five times," Timlin said. "We just weren't..capitalizing on our chances. 
The Shamrocks, for their part, had trouble recovering from the Banshees· near­touchdown. They were unable to get the ball out of their own territory_ until the linal minutes of the game. 
McGlinn lost five yards on their next possession, but ral­lied with an interception on the Banshees' first down. With 25 seconds remaining, however. an intentional grounding penalty set the Shamrocks back 10 yards and forced them to punt. 
"We like to play aggressive," said Glasser. "And some of the calls weren't necessarily good calls. They were ill timed and they cost us the game. They stopped our drives dead every time." 
The game ended with a Breen-Phillips incomplete at their own 30-yard line. 
The now familiar-feeling tie left both teams unsatisfied. 
"We'll have to win the last two games, no questions asked, if we want to go on," Glasser said of the Shamrocks' upcoming matches against Off­Campus Tuesday and Badin this Sunday. 
"I don't think we can lose again," Timlin said. "But the way our defense is playing, we think if we can just get in [the playoffs] we'll be competitive with anyone else who's there." 
The Banshees will play Walsh tonight at Stepan Fields. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
BUY/SELL_N.D. FOOTBALL TIX.  M'Shan: Just to clear the record on  
LOST & FOUND LOST ND-PU WEEKEND ­OUR PURDUE FLAG WAS l.OST IN THE PARKING LOT ON THE  TICKETS WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280  HOME & AWAY. (219) 289-8048 NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX NEEDED  2 BR, 2nd fir. Apt. 525/mo. Along St. Joe River Incl. Water/Sec. Syst.!Trash 288-2654 or 288-2788 3, 4 & 5-bedroom alumni-owned  FOR SALE SPRING BREAK 2001 -Jamaica,  the so called "prowess" of the Belles cup teams: While they do have unsurpassed depth as evi­denced by their dominance of four• on-four, the top cups talent lies on the ND side of 31. Kerry and  
SOUTH SIDE OF EDISON ROAD. THE 6 FT. X 10 FT. FLAG WAS HAND SEWN BY MY WIFE. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. t"'LEASE DROP OFF AT THE OBSERVER OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL THANK YOU VERY MUCH LOST CAMERA IN BLACK CASE IN THE HAMMES BOOKSTORE  ATTENTION Paying $50.00 per ticket for last 3 home games. "No student conversions wanted." (219) 289·8048. SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570  Dad needs 2 tix to Stanford game! Ckrosey@mindspring.com 2 ND/USC Tix + A1rlare GOTO alumni.nd edu/-ndc .sate FOR SALE, FOOTBALL TICKETS, ALL GAMES ... 272-7233  homes for rent. Please call Jason @ 240-0322 for homes close to campus. WANTED Help!  Cancun. Barbados, More. Hiring Campus Reps -2 Free Trips! Free Meals-Book by 11 /3. Call 1-800­426-7710 or sunsplashtours.com. Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235. 219·862·2082.  Connolly took on all the best the Belles had to offer and beat them 2 against 4 ­by forleit ­then beat them 2 against 2 ­4-1, and then 2 against 4 ­4-1 . So no one can doubt the depth of the Big Belles Machine, if you want the real cups talent, look no further than Connolly and Kerry.  
ON MONDAY, 9/25, PLEASE CALL BARBARA HUTSON AT 1-732-257·0881 CALL COLLECT  VICTORY TKTS BUY-SELL"TRADE  NEED: 4 Stanford tickets for family. Call John, 4-2705  Staffer needs to rent condo/guest house/room in Pasedena, CA General area tor New Year's holi•  1992 CHEVY LUMINA, GREAT CONDITION. $3,500; 272-4776.  Hey y'all, pangborn girls rockl and so do their dancesl yea club pink flamingo!  
NOTICES  ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 www.victorytickets.com  FOR RENT  day period (12-27 to 1-2) My son is marching in the Rose Bowl Paradel Would consider hosting your family for the  '93 Olds Ciera, 87k, showroom con­dition (no rust), needs nothing, $3600/obo.  I enjoy fun mornings in room 242, thanks to lauren, kristin and kale • our quad rules  
,.  COLLEGE SCHOLARc,HIPS 300.000+ private sector scholar­ships available for undergraduate and graduate students at accredit­ed colleges in the USA regardless  BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595  USC2001 game, tickets included, ND fans only! Please email tdatnd@aolcom or call 259-7544, as for Tina. Thanks  PERSONAL Impress potential employers.  Sports absolutely rules the world tonight! yeah, we will be done at an insanely early hour! Hey girliesl! South Dining Hall  

of GPA, finance, age o, citizenship Write or Call for FREE information and application SCHOLARSHIP DATABASE SER­VICE P.O. Box 432 Notre Dame, Ind1a na 46556-0432 1-800-936-3706 Bardyard8961@hotmail.com 
A M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
That Pretty Place. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­9487. 
WILL BUY USED CARS CALL 272­4776. 
Shift Mgr University Park Mall Auntie Anne's Pretzles up to $8, 20-30 hrs, call Pat or Kathy 219­271-8740 Keep in contact with friends and rel­alives. Student "business" cards are now available at THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center 631-COPY wasn't my home tonight' I actually came home! 
It's someone's birthday this week Kendall -go and party like a rock-star!!!!! 
The moon is my home! 

Monday, October 2, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
I 
• l 
l I 
I 
I 


Tuesday, October 3, 2000 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
IIIITIIE IIIIIIIE IIIEll'B BIICCEII 
ars. ••n••••t•r•
T•••II•& Bt:t•ll•ra
1:••·· 11,••• , ,,.,,, 
WIIIII,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,Blllns 111111t:1111111111111111 lrlslllll 
Football 
continued from page 28 
said. 
The startinf~ quarterback will be named later this week. Davie said Lovecchio and Godsey will both play against tho Cardinals. while Clark may also see some action. 
Godsey may not be receiving the attention reserved for the Irish starter but for now. at least. he will remain behind center. 
"He needs 10 be prepared to go in there and win a football game for us and win the quar­terback posit\on aga\n," Davie said. "When it's time for him to do something different or play a different position I'll be the first one to tell him. It's not at that stage yet." 
Update on Battle and Irons 
Arnaz Battle's return this season looks more unlikely as the year progresses. He is w1iaring a cast on his broken left wrist and is unable to com­pete in practice. Davie said the Irish will know nothing for the next few weeks, until the cast is removed. 
"The earliest we're even going to be able start doing anything with him is two weeks from now." Davie said. "I would say it's doubtful right now that he'll be back. And that's how we're approaching this." 
Grant Irons, who suffered a 

/Recycle The Observer.j 
~~~,:l-a 289-5080 
(\~pElf,;} 
Announces the Followingf)q ~ Introductory Offers Of... 
fio:Z oFFI r 726°, i 7,;", r-1'6i", r-S6T, 
I Aveda I I Cut & I IC•'"· c"'" s1,i. I I Perm, Cut I I Hilites & I 
L !:t!!! .J L ~}.:. .J t::.!''=!!J L~~e.J ~u!!!Y:.I 
1 Please use :he Special Savings invitation and get to 
Iknow us. You'll be p~eased with the qualit_y and servic_e we provide, and we will do our best to ment your confi­dence and patronage. We hope to see you soon. 
NOT VALID FOR SPIRAL PERMS, LONG OR TINTED HAIR ADD $IO, No OTHER DISCOUNTS APPLY. OPEN SOME EVENINGS. ATRIA SALON RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REFUSE SERVICE TO ANY CLIENT WHOSE HAIR CONDITION IS UNSUITABLE. 
Valid with the Following Stylists Only: Sarah. Vicki. & Connie 
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must Be Presented To Receptionist Before Services Are 
j 

Performed 
(Certain Restrictions Apply) II .~57 N. Ironwood Dr. _ Offer Expir~~ 
shoulder injury in the Nebraska game, will definitely not come back this season. But that has not stopped the senior captain from attending practices. Several times. Irons has been seen with his gold helmet and No. 44 blue jersey on, encour­aging his teammates and ofTer­ing advice. 
"lle's sincere about it," Davie said. "He watches every snap; coaches those guys. I'm glad we're going lo gel him back for another year." 
Notes: 
. 
The only other player ques­tionable for the Stanford game is fullback Tom Lopienski. Lopienski, who has a shoulder injury. will be replaced by Jason Murray or Mike McNair. 

. 
Do you think Davie cringed watching Zak Kustok lead Northwestern to a 37-17 victory over Michigan State on Saturday? The Wildcats' quar­torback spent his freshman sea­son at Notre Dame before transferring. Against the Spartans. Kustok completed 12­of-23 passes for J60 yards and two touchdowns and also ran for 42 yards on 10 carries. 


"I thought Zak Kustok played well," Davie said on Monday. "There's no secret we thought he was a good player. That's why we recruited him. But big­ger than all of that, I'm happy for him. I think he's found a place where he's obviously comfortable and having suc­cess." 
Tennis 
continued from page 28 

Bawano and Reven Stephens of Kentucky and 20th-ranked Reiner Nevrorh and Mark Williams of Baylor to even their record at 2-2. 
Despite the disappointment of the losses by Taborga and Talarico, the remainder of the Irish doubles lineup stepped up to haul in the victories. Besides the three wins posted by Smith and lladdock­Morales, who now sport a 7-1 record, junior James Malhame and senior Ashok Raju filled in the third doubles position to defeat teams from Kentucky and Baylor to record a 2-0 mark for the weekend. 
"We aren't perfect [in dou­bles)." Bayliss said. "We are still really looking for the right combination in third doubles. We have probably six guys on the team capable of playing third doubles out­side of the top two positions. We'll continue to experiment with that." 
~ ~~~~@~~~ ~~~~lfW 
~~il~Jg ~~Jg~Jg~lfil(Q)~ IMI~~lfilIM@J 
F0R NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
PRESENTED BY OMUS PROPERTY INVESTMENTS & THE SOUTH BEND POLICE DEPARTMENT 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2000 
LOCATION AT 600 BLOCK OF NORTH ST. PETER STREET SOUTH OF SOUTH BEND AVENIUE 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED STARTING AT 5:00 PM HAMBURGERS/ HOT DOGS/ CHIPS & SODA 
The top half of the Irish sin­down a set and 5-2 against gles lineup fared relatively Fresno State. and came back 
well  on  the  and  won,"  
courts in Kentucky. Talarico, who has been  "We just seem to be win­ning those close matches. Part ofit is, there is a  Bayliss said. "Aaron Talarico was down  
sharing the No. 1 singles position with Smith so far  high level ofcommitment within our team. When everyone buys in good  6-1, 5-2 against Kentucky and came  
this season, notched wins  things happen."  back won."  and  
O  V  e  r  Taborga,  
Kentucky and Baylor while  Bob Bayliss Men's tennis head coach  who has primarily  

being defeat­
ed in a close 
match against Mark Riddell of 
Harvard  in  a  third  set  
tiebreahr.  
Smith. who was  undefeated  

going into the weekend com­petition, defeated Sean Cooper of Fresno State, but yielded three losses to players from Kentucky, Baylor and Harvard to bring his overall singles record to 5-3 on the year. 
Both Talarico and Smith staged impressive comebacks to round out victories. 
"A couple of the highlights were that Casey Smith was 
been play­
ing in the 

No. 3 sin­gles slot for the Irish, quietly raked up wins in the first twu events of this season, and now boasts a 6-2 singles record. Over the weekend, Taborga only gave up a loss to David Mullins of Fresno State. lie soundly defeating opponents from Kentucky, Baylor and Harvard. 
"We just seem to be winning those close matches," Bayliss said. "Part of it is, there is a high level of commitment within our team. When every­one buys in good things hap­pen." 

page 19

Tuesday, October 3, 2000 · The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


September 25-October 30 103 Hes burgh Library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 (Nov. 3-4, 2000) 
Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Keough, Howard, Dillon, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, Sorin 
Monday-Tuesday, October 2-3 11 :30 pm-10:00pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, October 3, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, October 4, 10:00 p.m. Monissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Sunday, October 8, 1:30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Don McNeill, csc 
Deep Thoughts 
Listen 

The more faithfully youlisten 
Eucharistic Adoration
to the voice withinyou, 

Mondays, 11 :30 pm
the better 

through Tuesday, 10:00 pm
you will hear 
at St. Paul's Chapel of Fisher Hall.
what is s011J1diog outside. 
Dag Hammerskjold (1905-1961) 
For information,call Mary Tarsha @ 634-2469 
Markings 

or Lisa Demidovich @ 634-0847. 
r{itl

Source: The Fire ofSilence and Stillness 
Prayer &Discussion . 

Prayer Opportunity 


WJ 

Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Students and their Friends. 
Meet weekly on Wednesday Night for discussion andprayer. 
Coming Soon: Sixth Annual Retreat• November 17th-18th. 

For more information, please contact: Tami Schmitz 1-3016 Schmitz.8@nd.edu• Tom Doyle,C.S.C. 1-4112 Doyle.22@nd.edu 
112 Badin Hall 631-5242 
103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 Prayer. Music. Praise. 
email ministry.1@nd.edu 
· web www.nd.edu/~ min1stry Ewery Wednesday @ Io p.m.
lnte~ triWlfil
March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center fea-c:unna the Celebratfon Chofr 
ffl'ght Ulib)Jer ALL ARE WELCONE 
. ' I 
' 
' 
I 
I 'I 
'I 
I I 
' 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000

page 20 The Oburver . SPORTS 

continued from page 28 
Dillon's offensive line and senior captain and fullback Jason Visner. 
On the first possession for the Big Hcd, Visner set the tone as he blasted through a hole cre­ated by the line for a 35-yard touchdown scamper. Dillon converted for 2 and took an 8-0 lead. 
Dillon broke out again in the third quarter. On the first drive of the half. Visner ran 50 yards lo daylight, upping the score to 16-0. 
After the defense did away with Keough again, Visner had several key runs to set up a touchdown on a quarterback keeper. Dillon missed the kick, and took a 22-0 lead. 
To make a s-erious playoff run, the Kangaroos must improve their overall game, mentally and physically, according to Keough captain Hyan Yorkery. 
"We need lo do more condi­Lioning and hitting in practice," said Yorkcry. "We need to get up for games. Obviously they had the intensit•{ and we didn't. As the captain,· I blame myself for that, Everything is there, we just have to come out intense." 
Dillon is confident in its abili­ties and seems to have every­thing in place to make a seri­ous run at a title. Its running game and defense controlled the tempo of the entire game. 
"We're primarily a running team; that's our style," Visner said. "Our line controlled the line of' scrimmage. and that's how we won the game." 
Keenan 13, Alumni 0 
Behind the play calling of newly rncruited offensive coor­dinator Clay Hemley, the Keenan Knights outlasted the mighty "Doggy I)" of J\lumni for a 13-0 victory. 
Heml<'v, who was recruited last week f'rom the women's inlerhall football league as an offensive coordinator. seemed to call all the right plays as the Knights scored twice against an J\lumni defense that had not given up a regular season point since 1998. 
The Knights offense was led by superior play from the 
WIN TRIP 
FOR11NOTO 
AF ICA 

This year the cast of MN's 'The Real World' went to Africa. 
Now you can too! 
~~~
t3o't: 

Enter for a chance to win at your local Council Travel office or at counciltravel.com 
This trip to Afri<:a is provided by 

b~ II 
~~.~ v1rg1n
,,,,,a,o:is-=~:. at/antic 

No Purchase Necessary. Open lo residents of U.S., between lhe ages of 1E, and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void wher" prohibited. See agency for Official R~les or go 10 councillravel com. s..,eepstakes ends 10/15/00. 
~---­
'
councirttavel.com 1-800-2 DUNCIL 

offensive line. The push from 
the line allowed Keenan's trio 
of running backs to move the 
ball down the field. 
Brian Kunit;i;er led the rush­

ing attack, and quarterback 
Billy Ellsworth rushed for a 
touchdown behind an out­
standing push on fourth and 
goal from the 1-yard line. 
"We said at the beginning 

that our offensive line was the 
key," captain Herb Giorgio 
said. "They won the game for 
us today." 
Keenan began the scoring in 

the first half on a 4 7 -yard pass , 
to wide receiver John Russy. 
The extra. point gave the 
Knights a 7-0 lead. They 
added another score later in 
the game on the Ellsworth run 
for a 13-0 advantage. The 
defense held on from there. 
The Alumni offense was hurt 

all dav bv turnovers and men­
tal mlsta"kes. Every time the 
offense was about to break a 
big play, a turnover would end 
the momentum. 
"We made too many mistakes 

to overcome,"corncrback TJ 
Stratchota said. 
Tailback Alex Roodhouse 

added, "We weren't clicking 
today. Some plays were work­
ing and some were not. If we 
want to be successful in the 
future, we all have to get on 
the same page." 
Aside from the turnovers, the 

Alumni offense was stopped by 
a tough Keenan defense. 
Steady play from the entire 
defense allowed the offense to 
have the chance to win the -game. 
"It was a total team win. We 

finally played [well] for four 
quarters," Giorgio said. 
Despite the loss, the Dawgs 

still have a lot to look forward 
to. They know that they are a 
solid team, and that there is 
still more football to be played. 
"We should be ready to 

straighten things out and make 
a run in the playoffs," said 
Strachota. "We are not done 
yet." 
The Knights victory left both 

teams in the thick of the playoff 
chase. Both teams now stand 
at 2-1, and if the season were 
to end today both would be in 
the playoffs. llowever: each 
team may have to win their last 
game in order. to clinch a play­
off' spot. Alumni faces off 
against Keough next week, and 
the Knights will play O'Neil. 
WOMEN'S GOLF 

Freshmen lead Irish in tournament 
By MATT CASSADY 
Sports Writer 

Three freshman women golfers, under the leadership of Shane Smith, helped the Irish in a tough Midwest tournament this weekend. 
The Lady Northern Invitational saw the Irish women's golf team finish 13th out of an 18-team field which head coach Ross Smith called "probably the strongest Midwest field of any tourna­ment we play." 
Six of the seven Irish competi­tors this weekend were under­classmen, including freshmen Shannon _Byrne (84-78-78/240), Rebecca Rogers (83-80-80/243) and Jeanne Murphy (86-86­77/249), who placed 51sr, 64th and 80th respectively. Still. it was senior Shane Smith who once again paced the Irish by carding a 77-83-76/236 to finish 37th. 
"All three of our freshmen contributed quite nicely." said Hoss Smith. "[ButJ Shane Smith, our senior, continues to lead us and play pretty darn [well]." 
Coach Smith was pleased by the 311 his team shot in the final round of the Lady Northern, the lowest round the Irish have turned in this season. I-le is aiming for his team to turn in consistently low scores. 
"311 is where we need to be on a regular basis," he said. "We need to be able to turn it down and get !the team score] down around 300-305 to be more competitive with some of these other teams." 

In order to do that the Irish women must improve their short game. 
"Chipping and putting seems to be our weakness right now," coach Smith said. "Our golf swings are pretty sound, it is just the fact that when we do hit a bad shot and miss a green twe need to] be able to get it up and down." 
The next opportunity for improvement will come in two weeks at the Warren Golf' Course in the Notre Dame Invitational. The invitational is the first tournament hosted by Notre Dame in two years. and the first collegiate women's tournament at the new Warrnn Golf Course. 
Wllat a,e you loo1<.iTig fo, in yOUT job search? 
0 A. One of tfle Wo,ld's C. toTig--te,m ca,ee,la,gest '3an~s 0 oppo,tUTiities
O B. fo,mal t,aiTiiTig @ D. AU of tfle above 
Learn more about ABN AMRO and LaSalle Bank. 
We are looking for majors in: 
• Business • Economics • Math, Statistics, Science 
fodhe following career-focused programs: 
• Commercial lender Training Program 
• Finance Associates Program 
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
Octobe, 26th flat1Tie, lfaU 
for more information about our recruiting visits at the University of Notre Dame, please contact your career services office or: abnamrocareer.com 

LaSalle 
THE BANK THAT WORKS" 
M~d UWABNAMRO G,u.p 
EOE M/F/DN 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Summer Engineering Program Foreign Study in London, England 
INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 4, 2000 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00 p.m. 

ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 


Tuesday, October 3, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
CREDIT 

FIRST 
SUISSE 

BOSTON 
YOU'RE E 1TH ER AN AGENT OF CHANGE, 
www.csfb.com 
Something happens when companies fail to keep pace with the changing world of business. They falter. Because entire industries are changing in a matter of months. Or hours. At the same time, there has never been a time of greater opportunity for those who can make the most of change. At Credit Suisse First Boston, we have made it our mission as an investment bank to anticipate what others miss. Fact is, today, if you don't live in the future, youmaynevergetthere. CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON. 
EMPOWERING CHANGE!M 
©2000 Credit Suisse First Boston Corp. All rights reserved. 
. --------­
page 22 Tuesday, October 3, 2000
The Observer . ~PORTS 

WOMEN'S IINTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Pyros put a stop to Pangborn, fall victim to Lyons 
By MATT CASSADY, SUSIE 
CARPENTER and JEFF 
BALTRUZAK 
Spons Wmer 
The Pasqucrilla East Pyros 
ovcrmatched the Pangborn 
Phoxcs using a balanced attack 
uf running and passing tu defeat 
the Phoxcs 12-0 Sunday. 
Led by sophomore quarter­back Lindsay Terifay, the Phoxes put the first points on the board late i.n the lirst half. After a Pangborn punt was ham­pered by a strong wind, PE started at the Pangborn 30-yard line. PE wasted no time moving the ball d()wn the field, first on the ground then through the air. 
Tcril'ay f'irst ran an option right ror the first down, then immediately followed it up with a 15-yard touchdown pass to senior Stacey Leicht on first down. The failed 1-point conver­sion left PE in the lead 6-0. 
"We've been working hard to get the timing better on our passing," said Lc·icht. "It worked well today." 
Pangborn started the ensuing possession just inside its own 20, bul could nol move the ball and punted on fourth down. Again, the punt was high, into the wind and consequently short. giving the Pyros field position deep in Pangborn territory. PE's offense linally appeared stymied by the Pangborn defense as it !'aced fourth and long just outside the Pangborn 30. 
Ilowcver. the combination of Terifay to Leicht spelled trouble for the Phoxcs. Leicht pulled in the Ti:ri/'ay pass and scampered to the l0-yard line of' Pangb()rn for the drive-saving lirst down. On the next play Terifay went back to the air and found sopho­more Judy Moran for the 10­yard touchdown. Another !'ailed conversion left the Pyros on top 
12-0, 
The halftime strategy or PE coach Clay Hemley centered upon the wind which had been in Pyros' favor for the game's tirst half, but which would be in their !'ace for the second. lie lold his team that the running game, primarily the option, 
would become more important 
in the second half. If passing 
was necessary. "short 7-yard 
patterns" would be the key. 
Apparently, that strategy 
worked. PE was able to control 
the ball on the ground with 
Terifay and senior running back 
Ellen Mills. Although they con­
trolled the ball, the Pvros were 
not able to advance ft into the 
Pangborn end zone. 
Pangborn did not fare any bet­
ter and the defenses played to a 
stalemate in the second half. 
"IL was a good win," said Mills. 
"[ButJ ,-;ve need to keep getting 
better. 
Lyons 6, Pasquerilla East 0 
After a disappointing start to their season, Lyons llall came away with its first win on Thursday night with a 6-0 victo­ry a.ganst Pasquerilla East. 
Lyons entered lhe game deter­
mined to turn its luck around. 
"We were producing well, making the plays and executing well," Lyons captain Lisa Thomas said. "We were finally clicking." 
Lyons' players Alison Shenk, l{oxy Trevino and Lisa Thomas each had interceptions against the Pyros. 
In a change of strategy, Shenk, Trevino and Thomas played both ways. The move was just the right spark for the defense as it shut down PE. 
On offense, Lyons' quarter­back Sarah Jenkins connected with Shenk for a 40-yard recep­tion for the only touchdown of the game. Despite the loss, Lindsay Terifay, captain of l'asquerilla East, credits her team's strong defense for hold­ing Lyons. 
"Our defense played well, only allowing one touchdown," she said. 
PE seemed · to struggle throughout thu game, unable to score points and make plays. Terifay is optimistic despite their lackluster performance. 
"[Tonight] mentally got us back in track," she said. 
She is already looking ahead to Sunday's match-up against Cavanaugh. 
"It is going to be a good 


oodnight 
2000-2001 Season Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
(j)£4dernoaa 
(Good Morning 
;)uiid) 
by Anne-Marie MacDonald 
A comedy of alchemic proportions 
Directed by Wendy Arons 
Wednesday, Oct. 4 ...... 7:30 pm Thursday, Oct. 5 .......... 7:30 pm Friday, Oct. 6 .............. 7:30 pm Saturday, Oct. 7 .......... 7:30 pm Sunday, October 8 ...... 2:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 • Seniors $8 • Students $6 Tickets are .ivailable at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. For MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128 
game," she said. 
With newly found confidence, 

the Lyons football team is enthu­
siastic for the rest ofthe season. 
"We have a positive outlook," 

Thomas said. 
Welsh 19, Cavanaugh 2 
The Welsh Whirlwinds blew into McGl.inn field Sunday with a vengeance, capitalizing on Cavanaugh mistakes and domi­nating the Chaos 19-2. 
The Welsh defense stood together when it counted, stop­ping two Cavanaugh drives in the shadow of their own goal line, while giving great field position to the ollense by forcing four turnovers. 
"Everybody played a great game," Vanessa Lichon said. "The dcl'cnsive line forced their quarterback into a couple of passes she probably didn't want to throw." 
For Chaos quarterback Lynn Olszowy, it was a long hour. On almost every play the signal caller was forced to roll out resulting in inconsistent connec­tions with her receivers. 
"They had a really good pass defense," Olszowy said. 
Lichon started on both sides of the ball, intercepting three pass­es and making a leaping touch­down reception. 
Olszowy rolled left and fire a pass over the middle intended for Chaos receiver Melissa Marcotte. Lichon intercepted the pass, and took off down the side­line. It was the first of three interceptions she would have during the game. 
"I just played it by what they were running," Lichon said. "She put it up and I just came down with it." 
This turnover set up Katie Rak and the Welsh offense. After several_ineITective running plays. Hak found Lichon in the end zone to put Welsh up 6-0. 
Cavanaugh finally found a spark after a 30-yard reception by Marcotte, and a long run by Olszowy set up a fourth and one situation on the Welsh goal line. Olszowy·s pass on the next play was tipped, however, and the Chaos offense left the field empty-handed. 
"We were close," Olszowy said. "It just came down to the fact that we didn't execute when 
there was the p()tential to score." 
"It was a team effort, every­body played so well the entire game." said Lichon. 
The Whirlwinds scored their second touchdown early in the second half, after a Lichon inter­ception. 
After a rare roughing the passer penalty on the Chaos, Rak flipped the ball out to wing­back Jen Grubb. Grubb, forced to scramble. finally lofted the ball into the back of the end zone. Rak, who was open in the end zone, caught the ball. 
DOUBLE EXPOSURE 
Thomas Bowes, violin & Eleanor Alberga, piano 
Tuesdqy, October 3, 2CXX) 
.........,., ..11,,,0
,M8l!U.~ 


~NOTRE DAM~ JIii 

For ticket information contact the Saint N\ary's Box Office, 2844626 
Please Recycle ·rhe Observer. 

Considering the 
London Program? 
Remember you can apply via the web. Use our application at www.nd.edu/-londonvr
). 

Tuesday, October 3, 2000 The Obrerver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

Something for 

every 

one of 


your 

9,000 tastebuds. 
Introducing the new 99( BK CRAVERS™ Menu. 
NEW MENU ITEMS 
• Finger Foods -Mozzarella Cheese Sticks -JALAPENO POPPERS® 
j 
l 
l I 
.' I 
I 

Tuesday, October 3, 2000 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish keep up l«lw num.bers 
By MATf CASSADY Spons Writer 
Tim numbers just kept going down for the Irish this week­
end. 
The Notre Damn men's golf" team rallied from an opening round 311 and a second round 30 I lo card a final round 296 and finish 15th in the Northern Intercollegiate tournament in Champaign. Ill. The 296 scored by thn Irish was the second lrnst final round in the ·is-team field. 
Once again. junior captain Steve Hatay led the team by finishing eighth. This marked the sixth time in the last 13 outings that Hatay has f'in­ishcd in the top 10. Hatay scr>red a 71 in the second round for the fifth best round of the tournament. There wern three rounds of 70, a 69 and a 68. 
"I didn't play my best," Hatay said. "But if you can not play your best and still finish in the top IO that's pretty good because you're not gonna win them all. If I am playing well I am trying to win. If I am not, I just try to shoot as low a score as I can f'or my team." 
Freshman Gavin Ferlic was a pleasant surprise for the team, scoring for the learn by shooting a 77 in the second round and a 76 in the third round. 
"Ile is a pretty good player," Hatay said. "He is a scram­bler. lie always seems to come up with a good score, so I wasn't that surprist.id [to see his score count for the team.]" 

The team finishes its fall season Oct. 16 and 17 in Franklin. Ind. at the Legends of Indiana Intercollegiate tournament. 
t!MYl:RSIT'V 01" NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIOl'IIJ,..L STUDY PROCRA;\-1S 101 S.-c:artry Buit,unr Ne1f:ra Dam-. ladl:ana 46.556 Tt 6Jl-511l F¦11.: 6Jl-5711 
..· 
~~;.. :t~i-~.;: 

INNSBRUCK 
INFOR.il'L4TION ,MEETING 
With Professor Hannelore Weber Srudent Returnees 

\Vednesday October 4, 2000 318 DeBartolo 4:15 PM 
Application Deadline: December 1 Applications Available vnnv/nd.edu/-intlstud 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Notre Dame looks to end losing streak 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Spom Editor 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team looks to end its thrce-gamn losing streak as the Irish host the struggling · Northwestern Wildcats tonight at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Irish have dropped their last three games -all home losses at the hands of Big East opponPnts -by one goal. i\ftcr failing to put the ball in the net against Seton Hall and Connecticut, the Irish were able to score twice against Pittsburgh in the Panther's 3-2 win Friday night. 
Sophomore Erich Braun. who was last season's load­ing scorer, scored his first goal. followed soon after by teammate Griffin lloward's fourth of the season. Braun, who has been !'ighting a hamstring injury all season, was happy to finally put the ball in the net, but disap­pointed in the loss. 
"It felt great," said Braun. "But I'd actually rather we had won the game than me scoring." 

Howard's goal put the Irish up 2-1 before a Panther comeback squashed the Irish hopes of ending their losing streak. With three penalty kicks converted along with Friday night's goal, the senior is suddenly the team's leading scorer. 
"While I'm excited to be con­tributing, I know that I'm not really a goal-scorer," said Iloward. "It's just the way our season's gone so far." 
The Wildcats enter the game winless so far this season, hav­ing lost all eight games they have played. Seniors Brandon Swalve and Jun Kim lead the team with two goals apiece. 
Northwestern played its last game on Sunday, dropping to 0­2 in the Big Ten with a 6-2 home loss to Michigan State. 
The Wildcats were able to put only eight shots on goal, while 
;1
' 



ELIZABETH LANGffhe Observer Griffin Howard, shown above, looks to move past Pittsburgh defender as the Irish fell to the Panthers 3-2 in Friday's game. 
allowing the Spartans 25. 

The Irish will be looking to get improved play from their flank players. The Irish started Howard and junior !lanker Matt Rosso against Pittsburgh. Rosso provided immediate dividends, creating many drives and scor­

for lntcrnu.tic,nal Studii::t 

Cosponsored with 
~~and 
Institute for Latino Studies 
Free and open to the public 

ing opportunities. 
"Matt Rosso had a very good game. It was a bright spot," said Irish head coach Chris Apple. "He played on the flank. We need to get more production out of our Dank players." 
Despite being winless since 

"~ Voice Like Pine Cfioco{ate" 
Venezuelan born singer and guitarist with songs from Central and South America and original songs in Spanish and English 
Thursday, October 5, 2000 
7:30 p.m . 

La Fortune Ballroom University of Notre Dame 
Sponsored by 
"lh.: Helen 

~KELLOGG INSTITUTE 
Sept. 19, Braun reels confident that a win today will start the lrish off on a winning streak. 
"I think we're gonna win [Tuesday]." said Braun. "Score a couple or goals. get our confi­dence back and then start win­ning in the Big East." 
page 25 

Tuesday, October 3,2000 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

7:30PM TUESD Y, Oct. 3 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by Office of Alcohol & Drug Educatlont Unlverslty ofNotre Dame and Alcohol & AddJctions Resource Center (AARC). For Information please call 631-7970 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Knc. tt defense dominates Siegfried in 20-0 victory 
BvCOLIN BOYlAN, KATIE 
DEMENT and NOAH 

AMSTADTER 
Sports Wrir~rs and Assisr,mr Sporn Editor 
If thf're was any doubt about which intcrhall football team boasts the strongest defense in the league. Knott clnared up that confusion with a dominat­ing 20-0 victory over Siegfried 

on Sunday. 
Simply put. the Knott defense overwhelmed Siegfried, forcing four turnovers and containing the Hamblers' strong running game. This contest market.I Lhe third cons1icu tive week that the .Jugg defense held its opponent scoreless on offense. 
Knott open('d the game on a strong note, murching 65 yards for a score on its first drive. The drive was capped by a touchdown pass from quarter­back Mario Suarez to receiver Brian Pawlawski. Then the Knott defense took over. 
Utilizing a variety of pass pro­tection and blitzing schemes, the Juggs forced turnovers on all three of Seigfried's ensuing possessions. The offense was able to convert two of these gifts into touchdowns on passes from Suarez to Pawlawski and Jon Smith respectively. 
By halftime. Knott had built up a 20-point lead that would never be challenged. 
For Siegfried, running back Travis Smith turned in a solid effort, breaking tackles and gaining posittve yardage on almost every carry. But the Ramblers could never seem to convert on crucial third downs. Siegfried quarterback Hob Plumby was hurried almost every pass play and made a number of questionable throws into a swarmin~; Knoll defense. 
When cornerback Brian Schmut:t.ler picked off a Plumby pass in the fourth quarter, he killed any chance for a Hambler comeback. 
"We've gut a massive defen­sive linemen and can play a lot of c.lifferent coverages, so that makes it tough on opposing offenses," Schmutzler said. 
Knoll's only outstanding !1aw 

was its inabilitv to convert on fourth downs. " The Juggs went for it on four fourth down plays. coming up 
0-4. 
"We just have so much confi­dence in both our offense and defense," Suarez·said. "That we didn't foci that we were taking a big risk at all." 
Fisher 6, Sorin 6 
The Fisher \\laves and the Sorin Otters played tu a draw this Sunday. giving both teams a 1-0-1 record. The game ended with a 6-6 tie, and may lead to a rematch in the play­offs. 
Sorin Otters started the scor­ing with u touchdown off an interception by quarterback Greg Carney. 
The first half continued in Sorin ·s favor with an illegal procedure call on the Waves. llowever. the Otters had a missed a decisive touchdown opportunity when Carney failed to catch a pass. 
In the second half Fisher took control as Zach Allen returned a punt for a touchdown to tie the game. 
"We were disappointed in giv­ing up the returned punt for the Fisher touchdown," Sorin cap­tain Mike Crowe said. 
Both teams focused on the passing game as their major form of offense. but neither felt that they played to potential. 
"We lacked intensity," Fisher captain Brian Zant said. 
Although not overly pleased with their offense, both cap­tains were proud of their defense. 
The Waves hope defense can take them to a victory next week. 
"We are just going to take it one game at a time and see how things go against St. Ed's next week," Zant said. 
Crowe does not think this will be the last time the Waves and Otters will play each other. 
"We might see them again soon," he said. 
Zahm vs. Carroll forfeit 
During the final moments of most interhall football games, 

/'IA ,,, ,,,
JY1us1c1ans: 
WouW you fike to _perform at tlu cfusing Grundi ofJunior 'Parents Weekentf2001? 
Tfte J'PW 'Executive Committee is fooking for tafentetfmusicians. sucfi aspiano, vwfin. JTute, andguitarpfayers (otlur instruments afso wefcome) 
to perform on jeoruary 18, 2001. 
If interested,_pfease contact :Mariafi at 4-2607 or via emai(at (jide(1~vrule<.fu for more information an,{to sclietfu[e an audition. 
one can sec the teams compet­ing in the next game anxiously warming up on the sideline. This was not the case on Sunday as the Fisher-Sorin game was ending on the south end of Stepen Field. Instead. the Vermin of Carroll sat quiet­ly in jerseys and jeans. forced to forfeit the game to Zahm because of a lack of eligible players. 
"On Sunday there were peo­ple on retreats and people that were injured," Carroll corner­back Pat Laboe said. "We did• not exactly know about it and so come game time when we were getting ready to go to the game we had less people than we expected." 

A dozen players arrived, but rules stipulate that 12 players cannot constitute a team. 
"We'd have had too many players playing both ways and getting tired." said LaBoe. "There was too much chance for injury." 
The forfeit was a step back­wards for the Vermin, who car­ried a lead into halftime in their previous game against defend­ing-champion Knott. The dorm -which hadn't fielded a team since 1997 -dropped its record to 0-3. 
For the Rabid Bats of Zahm, the game improved the team's overall record to 2-1. However, because the forfeit goes into the books as a 7-0 win. the team could face trouble in playoff seedings as teams with identi­cal records are seeded on the basis of points scored. 
Zahm players were less con­cerned about the playoff impli­cations ol' the win, and more concerned about losing a chance to play. 
"We were disappointed. We were ready to play," Zahm cap­tain Brian Zant said. "Just get­ting the practice in -the hit­ting -would have been help­ful. [The weekend off] will get our guys nice and rested for next week's game against Seigfried." 

s 
Ronald Fuchs 
Exer;utiva Vice President and Chief Technology Office( Bayer Corporation 
ttesttopics ofthe day concerning the fects9f cherriicals on human health ,dthe environment invariably lead 
~talq.:?holders to take positions that are diverse, to say the least. Yet the sharp diversity associated 
with clashing opinions is the very medhun inwhich common 
. ••· ..._·.· . .. . •. ,,,. 
approaches are being found 
toward meaningful resolution of highly cont,entiousenvironmental issues. In fact,,RonFuchs describes, 
in a short.tour of relevant cases, this 
braqd ofdiversjty may bec9me a'<,,, .,,!IlOd{}l for collabhration on futu1;;,e, ·-' environmental solutions. 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

Fox TROT 
J'ASoN'S GoT QUITE AN HE'S DES1C:,Nt1'116 A Ro6oT 
AMBITIOUS l'i<OJ'ECT THAT'LL Do ALL oF HIS 
UNDERWAY. LAUNDR'Y, ALL of HIS 1 OH? COOICIN(:,, PICI< UP HIS MESSES ANO oSEY HIS EVER'!' COMMAND. 
\ 

THAT'S THE EIGHTH TIME IN A ROW! ARE EITH~ Of YOU GVYS MOVIN THIS TKING? 
:I've bun w,.rm9 -the. SQ.r,e. under­
""''"'"" for$"d~.S 
. 
..... ' I

}?) S> n ~ 
. . ! 
{
BILL AMEND 

l ToLD HIM IF HE ADDED SoME LIPSTICK, HE'D 
. 1-----..

HAVE THE PERFECT WI 
I 
!SJ 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 31 Game for the 61 Famous alter 1 "You missed a asocial ego 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2000 
!" 36 What 55-Across 62 Got smart, with 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS may cause friction with the one you 5 Hilo hello is to 17-Across •up" DAY: Dave Winfield, Stevie Ray trulylove.000< 10 Summer place 39 Toppled, in a 63 Ravioli filler Vaughan, Lindsey Buckingham, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't way Gore Vidal, Chubby Checker, Tom­let y01.:, emotions get the better of
14 Heather Headley 
my Lee, Lorraine Bracco you. Your partner may blow situa­
title role on 40 Reply to the DOWN 
Happy Birthday: You have plenty tions out of proportion today. Try 
Broadway Little Red Hen 1 Solomon 
of energy, but that doesn't mean you not to let your financial worries get
15 Lions' locks 41 "Off with you!" 
2 Jetty should take on everything that you down. Keep your thoughts to 16 Concluded 42 Frank 3 Locker room comes your way. If you really want yourself. 00 17 2000 runner 44 Part of a freight emanation to do your best, focus on what is LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Getting 
truly important. If you set your pri­together with friends and meeting
19 Alternative to train 4 Driveway 
orities and follow your instincts, you new people will bring the mental
hot pants 48 _ on (orders material 
will do just fine. If you spread your­stimulation you require. Travel will
20 Go astray to attack) 5 Aviator Earhart 
self too thin, you will fall short of be beneficial and will open your eyes
49 Ill-gotten gains 

21 They're on tap 6 RCA or your goals. Your numbers: 18, 26, 30, to new ideas. 0000 
in taprooms 50 Prego Columbia 39, 41, 44 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your 22 Coats with gold competitor 7 Burden ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get temper will be tested. Financial con­23 Stir up 51 Part of a litter 8" a Rebel" out as much as possible. You need cerns may cause anxiety. You may 
people around who will help boost want to put your family on a stricter
24 Humor that's 54 Sparkling wine (1962 #1 hit) 
your ego. Seminars will bring infor­budget. Use your energy to help chil-­
not funny center 9 Straight-grained 
mation and open doors to interesting dren achieve their goals. 000 26 Classic Chevy 55 See 36-Across Wood new connections. 0000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 29 Broadway aunt 58 Rung 10 Chris Rock, for TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 21): You mustn't make decisions that 30_dog 59 Restaurateur of one Changing your job may mean mak­will have lasting effects. Don't get 
(backwoods song 11 1950's Indians ing a residential move. Your financial involved in ambiguous investments situation is looking brighter. Consult or wagers. Remember your family
animal) 60 Brezhnev's land AU-Star Bobby 
with family members before making obligations. 000
12 Dams 
a final decision. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Rainbow maker GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Edu­Involvement in secretive affairs will 18 Famous cational courses may turn into more affect your reputation and cause P L A T C L A D Dartmoor facility Puzzle by Ed Early of a social connection. Your new emotional upset. Family members friends will introduce you to some­will misinterpret you, and discord

L O V E A o N E 22 Garbo of "Anna 33 Monopoly token 47 Rubbish 53 Overly familiar, 
one very special. 000 could lead to estrangement. 000
E I Christie" 
34 5¢/gallon, e.g. 48 SO-Across, e.g. maybe CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
z --+--+e-+,--4 23 Dude's place? 
35 Head of state in 55 Hee's follower down to brass tacks. You need to put Spend time with individuals who
24 First course, 
Kuwait 50 McGwire stats your time, effort and energy into can give you information. You will 
maybe 56 Whitney of gin 
your professional direction. Take need to get away to gain perspective. 
37 Vestige 51 Sit for a
25 Notorious ldi fame work home if you feel it will help You can make good decisions regard­
38 Where Red photograph 
57 Ruin, with you advance. 000 ing your direction. 0000 
Delicious apples 

during shipping 52 Minor "up" LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Oear originated have a real yen to party. Don't forget your decks. You need to recycle,
27 Infiltrator 
42 Like a London about your mate because you are renew and redo. Look at your28 Langston 
having too much fun on your own. options. You may need to sit down 
Hughes, e.g. jurist Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
You may owe your partner an apolo­and discuss your personal life with
43 Some hosp. are available by touch-tone phone: 
29 Dollars and gy. Your need to be in the limelight your mate. Changes are in order. 00 Deutsche marks 
rooms 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
A L ..,,.+.,,+=+,~ 31 Echo analyzer 44 Jiffy Annual subscriptions are available for the Birthday Baby: You have a strong set of values and will do whatever is necessary to protect your beliefs. You are brave, just and willing to help
M I ,___._....,..... 32 Choreographer 45 Robust best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
others. You will fight for a cause and always stand up for your rights. 
P E __.___..__ S E E de Mille 46 Functioned years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
© 2000 Universal Press Svndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-



THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ___Zip_____ 


Looking for awin 
Notre Dame men's soccer looks to end its losing streak with a win over Northwestern· today. 
PORTS 
page 24 

O
THE page 28 BSERVER Tuesday, October 3, 2000 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE MEN'S TENNIS 
O'N<:~ill scores first offensive touchdown, loses 
By TODD NIETO, MATT 
HARRIGAN and JAMES 
VERALDI 
Spom Writers 
Both the Stanford Griffins and the O'Neill Angry Mob were looking for their lirst win of the season Sunday. Although O'Neill put forth a gallant effort. the Stanford offense proved to be too much f'or the Angry Mob io handle and came away with an 18-6 win. 
By the end of the tirst half. the Griffins ½ere leading 6-0. Bunningback Mike Profeta scored Stanford's touchdown and ended a long Gril'lin drive. The Angry Mob answered back when they blocked the Griffins' extra point attempt. 
ln the second half' of the game, Stanford once again came out on top as they domi­nated O'Neill with its strong offense. Early in the third quarter. Profeta scored anoth­er touchdown for the Griffins. Stanford was halted by the O'Neill defense when it attempted a 2-point conver­sion. 
In the fourth quarter, it appearnd as if the Angry Mob was on the move when it com­pleted several passes. However, Tony llallowell recovered an O'Neill fumble and ran it back for a touch­down. 
Lale in the fourth quarter, O'Neill's /\lex Jackson scored the Angry Mob's first touch­down of the season and their first offensive touchdown in history. The touchdown came too lale, however. 

"i\s a team, we came togeth­er at the end of the game," O'Neill captain Phil Irvine said. "This is a stepping stone for us 
and  we  will  continue  to  
improve."  
Dillon 22,  Keough 0  

In a match-up between two great defensive teams, the Dillon Big Hed smashed the Keough Kangaroos 22-0 Sunday afternoon. 
Both teams came into the game having not given up a single point on the season. 
Dillon has outscored its opponents 52-0 in three games so far this year, and Sunday it showed everyone just how the Big Hed has done it. 
The Big Red's defense com­pletely shut down the Keough offense. rarely giving up first downs, let alone sustained dri­ves. 
Dillon's defensive line sealed up the middle and kept con­stant pressure on Keough's quarterback. while the line­backers and defensive backs thwarted any attempts by the Kangaroos to run to the out­side. At one point, the Dillon del'ense even registered back­to-back sacks on the over­matched Kangaroo offense. 
The only bright spot of the game for Keough was that it kept the Dillon passing game under wraps for the most part, saving a couple of 2-point con­versions. llowever, that bright spot was overshadowed by the dominant performance of 
see M. BLUE/page 20 


FOOTBALL 

Irish :focus moves from Godsey to Lo Vecchio 
By TIM CASEY Assistant Sports Edimr 
Less than 20 days after reporters gathered around Gary Godsey, asking him any question 
imaginable, after "In Godsey We Trust" T­shirts were p I en ti fu I around campus. and after 

the 6-foot-7 Godsey inch quar­terback led the Irish to a last-

second victory over Purdue, he walked silently away from practice yesterday. 
The media's new favorite subject is Matt Lovecchio, the 6-foot-2 inch freshman signal caller from New Jersey. All 
three local television sports personalities and several newspaper beat writers sur­rounded Lo Vecchio after Monday's two-hour practice. 
How times have changed. 

Though coach Bob Davie has made no official statement on who will start against Stanford, all public indications point towards Lovecchio being at the helm. 
On numerous occasions since the Michigan State game, Davie has alluded tu the offense's lack of production this season and the need to diversify a stagnant scheme. The Irish rank second-to-last in the nation in passing offense 
(98.5 yards per game) and 106th out of 114 Division 1-A teams in total offense (249.5 yards per game). 
"We don't feel that we can really continue to go down the pal.h we went down those two weeks [against Purdue and Michigan State]," Davie said last week. 
The 18-year old Lovecchio may be one of the answers for the lrish's new plan. Despite not running much option in high school, Lovecchio is a more mobile quarterback than Godsey. Also, according to Davie, he has grasped the offense better than Jared Clark and Carlyle Holiday. the other two freshman quarterbacks. 

On Monday, LoVecchio addressed the questioners with some typical cliche responses, that he's "going to take it day by day" and that the quarter­backs "all have to step it up a notch." 
"We're going to work as hard as we can to contribute to this football team," LoVecchio 
see FOOTBALL/page 18 
Irish look to keep up habits 
By RACHEL BIBER 

Spons Writer 
Breaking bad habits isn't something the Irish men's ten­nis team is worried about this season, because the only rem­tine it has established so far is piling the wins in the record books. 
After winning 42 or 59 matches in last weekend's Tom Fallon Invitational, the Irish proved that their performance was not a fluke by posting a total or 26 singles and doubles wins out ol' 36 matches against Kentucky, Baylor, Ilarvard and Fresno State during the three­day Charles Fluitt Collegiate Classic in Lexington, Ky. this weekend. 
"The difference in a year ago and right now is that we arc finding a way to win," Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss said. 'Tm really excited about the effort level we arc getting." 
Two Irish players boast spot­less singles records on the sea­son after adding four wins d ur­ing the event. Starting the year with extraordinary style. both freshman Luis !laddock­Morales and junior Andrew Laf1in stand at 8-0. Included in Haddock-Morales' wins is an impressive defeat over 68th­ranked Mark Williams of Baylor 6-4, 7 -6 (10-8). an opponent that his teammate Javier Taborga had upended the week before. 
Haddock-Morales also proved he has the necessary mental toughness to compete by pulling two three-set wins out of the four matches he played during the weekend by fighting back to defeat oppo­nents from Harvard and Fresno State. 
The only blemish on Haddock-Morales' overall sin­gles and doubles record came when he teamed up with Casey Smith and was defeated in doubles by Fresno State. Haddock Morales and Smith have seemed to mesh well this season. racking up seven wins in the process. 
One Irish duo that did not land as much success during the weekend's competition was the ninth-ranked doubles team of juniors Taborga and Aaron Talarico. The pairing entered the tournament with a 2-0 mark, but was upset by Edo 
see TENNIS/page 18 

vs. Northwestern at Georgetown at West Virginia Today, 7 p.m. Friday, 4 p.m. Saturday, 11 a.m.
SPORTS ® 
ATA vs. Adrian Cross Country 
" 

~-~ StanfordWednesday, Gp.m. Notre Dame Invitational 
e 

Saturday, I :30 p.m. 
Friday, 4: 15 p.m. ~~
GLANCE • 





