
Anot-so-tasty Bizkit 
Not a vote for Bush 
Find out why Limp Bizkit's third release, 
Seven states, including Indiana, will not have 

Tuesday

Chocolate Starfish and the llot Dog Flavored 
Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader 
Water, does not live up to expectations. 

on the ballot. Find out how to write him in. 
OCTOBER 31,
Scene . page 11 

Viewpoint . page 9 
2000 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 45 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


HAPPY HALLOWEEN 

By LIZ ZANONI 
News Writer 
In the final days of a close election. where both presidential candidates are battling to cap­ture undecided voters, Republican candidate George W. Bush contin­ues to pre­sent himself as a moder­ate "com­passionate conserva­tive" who is willing to work together with Democrats to accomplish public policy 
· goals. However after Bush nom­inated former Defense Secretary Dick Cheney as his running mate, opponents were quick to pick apart the Wyoming native's voting record. 
Cheney was first attacked by critics for his decision not to vote in 14 of the last 16 local and state elections in Texas including the March 14 primary that elected Bush for the Presidential nomination. Cheney was in charge of helping Bush find the Republican vice presi­

dential nominee in Texas where he 

"Cheney didn't think he was going to run for office again," Wolbrecht said as a possible explanation on Cheney's deci­sion not to vote in state and local elections. 
"If he really had intentions of running he would have deliber­recent work at Halliburton," said Schmuhl. 
Cheney's voting record as Wyoming's only House member from 1979 to 1989 is also under scrutiny from moderates who disapproved of Cheney's conser­v a tivc legislative decisions. Among these votes was Cheney's opposition of a 
was working as 1985 ban on "cop-killer" chairman for the oil bullets, his vote against
j A" CAMPAIGN 2000-,., I 
company, Halliburton. 
"It's not a good sign when our candidates aren't participating," said government professor Christina Wolbrecht, who believes that some people might be skeptical about Cheney's choice not to vote. "The legiti­macy of our government depends on participation." 
Wolbrecht denoted that Cheney's decision not to vote does not necessarily indicate how Cheney will handle his responsibilities as vice president if Bush is elected into otlice. 

ately made a voting record," said Wolbrecht. 
Notre Dame American studies and journalism Professor Robert Schmuhl said voters would most likely look to Cheney's past responsibilities and experiences as they make their decision. 
"Cheney's record is an issue, but it's not one that will make a big difference in a voter's deci­sion," said Schmuhl. "In most cases, people arn looking at him for his experience as secretary of defense and for his more continuing Head Start, 
his disapproval of releasing South African leader Nelson Mandela from prison in 1986 and his refusal to support environmental initiatives to pro­tect clean water and endan­gered species. 
Wolbrecht reminds voters that Cheney was a representative from a very conservative state and voted in a way that most likely reflected the desires of his constituents. As a Republican, Cheney follows a traditional phi­losophy that supports maximum 
see CHANEY/page 4 
SMC quits smoking program 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's "Smoking Cessation: Fresh Start" classes scheduled for the weeks of Oct. 24 and 30 did not draw the expected numbers. The program, designed to assist students and staff stop smoking, was cancelled due to the low turnout. 
"We had eight people sign up but only one. per­son showed for the first class," said Catherine DeCleene, director of Health Services. 
The program came in response to Saint Mary's new smoking policy, which limits smoking inside College buildings. The Office of Human Resources and Health Services teamed with the American Cancer Society to bring free quit smoking pro­grams to campus. 
"We wanted to offer pro­grams to help people stop smoking, giving them another option," said Cory Akins of Human Resources. 
One of the programs set up by the American Cancer Association offered faculty, staff and students information on the effects of smoking. The free two­week program also offered participants a "Commit to Quit" kit containing coupons and support num­bers. The program did not get a high turnout, howev­er. 
"For now we will provide information, telephone numbers and flyers of community 'quit smoking' programs," says Akins. 
Over the summer Saint Mary's administration cre­ated a smoke-free task force committed to making Saint Mary's campus a smoke-free environment. The smoke-free task force resolved to approve a new policy that bans smoking in all campus residence halls and classroom build­ings. 
Although students admit the new smoking policy has helped some cut back, some students are in favor of a different policy. 
"I think the classes are a good idea, but not every-
see SMOKING/page 6 

Tuesday, October 31, 2000

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Bovine Bingo 
/\h, homecoming time in high school. You 
remember the feeling: either you made 
Homecoming Court and were thrilled or rolled 
your eyes at the list and proclaimed, "Please. 
I'm glad I'm not on it. That's not my sort of 
thing." 
Most high school 
llomccomings include a 
pep rally followed by the 
football game that night. 
Halftime has the crowning 
of a king and queen, and 
then the highlight of the 
night is the semi-formal 
dance following the game. 
For MOST schools the 
dance is the highlight of 
the evening. But not for the 
high school in my home­
town of Winchester, 
Kentucky. 
The highlight of 
llomccomiug night in Clark 
County is Bovine Bingo. 
Hecently Clark County's football program has been on a slow decline. In fact, a win last year snapped a 23 game losing streak. Needless to say, the number of fans in the bleachers has declined. 
However. on Homecoming night, the bleach­ers arc packed full yet again. Everyone has bought his or her ticket for the main even"t that follows the game. 
Imagine this--and I swear I am telling the honest truth -after the game has concluded and the players have left the field. the grass is divided up into 1000 squares. The squares are numbered and tickets are sold with numbers one through 1000. 
A proud Clark Countian then leads the hero of the night out onto the field: one lucky farmer's cow is led to the middle stadium and then its guide walks away. 
The f'ans and ticket holders now begin the waiting process ... they wait... and they wait... and they wait. 
The moment they're anxiously anticipating? When the cow. you know, does his business, relieves himself. takes care of a bodily function. drops his load. The lucky person that holds the ticket number of the square where the cow places his pie is the winner of half the money collected by the contest. 
Some fans get a little over-excited and try to cause the cow to use it 'in their square. If he travels in that direction, they use foghorns or large bells to try and scare the cow and cause him to go. But that never seemed to worked. 
Most of the time it seemed as if the cow knew exactly what was going on and was going to make the most out of his one moment in the spotlight. Sometimes it would take hours and most fans would sit there intently waiting for that grand moment when the cow would stop, everyone would gasp and a winner was declared. 
Since early elementary school days, I attend­ed Clark County's homecoming with the hopes of being the Bovine Bingo winner. But unfortu­nately I never brought the money home. 
I hear Bovine Bingo no longer exists. Someone probably claimed the cows were being abused even though I swear the cows loved the night as much as the rest of Clark County. 
There's nothing like Homecoming in high school. and there's nothing like Bovine Bingo in the heart of the Bluegrass ... I guess cow pies are worth more in Winchester. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Smithe Sam Derheimer Helena Payne Chris Scott Myra McGriff Graphics 
Sports Dana Mangnuson Kerry Smirh 
Production 
Bryan Kronk Kerry Smith 
Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Kun Bogaard Amanda Greco 

The Ob,.,,vcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fuday except during exam and vacnion period,. The Observer is • member of the A>sociatcd Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"/ believe that our best hope for rekindling the American spirit and renewing our commom values is to have faith again." 
Senator Joseph Liebennan Democratic vice presidential candidate 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 
Green Party presidential candi­date Ralph Nader brought his anti­corporate views to the University of Iowa Oct. 27 in an attempt to rally both Democratic Party and unde­cided voter support in the final days of the 2000 election season. 
The event. held in the IMU Main Ballroom, drew approximately 2,000 Democratic, Republican and Green Party supporters from the UI and Iowa City community. 
UI law professor and school board member Nick Johnson, who introduced Nader to the crowd, said he has worked actively in every Democratic presidential cam­paign since 1948 and held appoint­ments under three Democratic administrations before deciding to 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
Students wait for refund from MTV 
BLOOMINGTON. Ind. 
Six months after MTV Campus Invasion Tour's Bush and Moby concert was cancelled, many Indiana University ticketholders still have not received refunds -or an explanation. The Bloomington, Ind. concert was canceled three days before the scheduled April 14 show. with no specific reasoning given and no answers for fans. Ticketholders, who have been waiting for refunds since the cancellation, will contin­ue to wait while a lawsuit between the William Morris Agency. which represents Bush, and local company Jason Millican Promotions plays out. Millican said his company is suing the William Morris Agency for a breach of contract and conversion resulting from the agency canceling the show. But he said the parties are working on a settlement in the meantime because "realistically you never know how long it's going to take if you go to trial." Millican 's lawyer, Thad Kelley of the law firm Kelley, Belcher and Brown, said the complaint will be heard in a federal court. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast Aa.'UWea!her l!irecast for daytime cooclitions and high temJ;\!rJ!ureS 
4,9!,~4.Q.Q r) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Ruri111s S~<m Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy C/0/J(/y 
Via A.saociated Presa GraphicsNat 
"You never know what your body can do until you run a marathon." 
Emily Deye Notre Dame senior 

endorse Nader earlier this year. 
"This was not a trivial decision for me," Johnson told the crowd. "But I have come reluctantly to the conclusion that the two major par­ties are no more able of internal reform through instituting cam­
"He's sort ofa.fixture 
at Notre Dame like the Golden Dome and the Grotto. " 
Brendan Dowdall coordinator of stadium personnel on veteran stadium usher Victor Couch 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY 
Stars support election candidates 
SEAlTLE 
Big name celebrities in both the Democrat and Republican parties visited Washington State this past week to gather support for Vice President Al Gore and Texas Gov. George W. Bush. With one of the closest pres­idential elections in more than 20 years, both parties arc using every tactic to win over the minds of undecided voters. Polls show a near deadheat between Bush and Gore in Washington. Democrats used Hollywood star power at a rally last Saturday, in Seattle's Gas Works Park with director Rob Reiner and actors Martin Sheen, Christine Lahti, Alfre Woodard, and Dule Ilill speaking. Democrat candidate for senator. Maria Cantwell and for­mer governor Mike Lowry. running for Washington Lands Commissioner also spoke. The actors, who pas­sionately delivered their lines. urged a vocal crowd of more than 500 Gore supporters to vote. "As the acting president of the United States," said Sheen, drawing off his role on NBC's television series "West Wing." "I am very honored to declare Tuesday, Nov. 7, Al Gore Day." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 31. 
paign-finance laws than a heroin addict is of kicking his habit." 
lie said that 30 years or broken promises from both of the two major parties to reform campaign finance, combined with Nader's commitment to rid the political process of private-interest money, led tu his endorsement of Nader. 
Nader took the stage at 7:30 p.m. to the applause of' 1.200 people in the packed ballroom and another 700 in an overnow viewing room. Ile spoke for two hours, cond uctcd an hour-long question-and-answer session. and met with supporters at a post-rally reception. 
Topics of Naders speech included campaign finance, civil disobedi­ence in America and the attitudes of young voters. 
"If you want to advance as an academic institution, we must be able to speak freely. " 
Brendan Dowdall Dillon Hall senator 
~ 
C 2000 AccoWealher, Inc. COLD 
High Low Show ¦ r• R ¦ ln T•¦ torma Flurrl¦ s Snow ki ¦ Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloi,,,4y 

Univ. of Iowa professor endorses Nader's visit 

FRONTS: 
................... 
WAAM STATIONARY 
Phoenix  69  57  
St. Louis  77  62  
San Antonio  78  64  
Seattle  51  39  
Washington DC 64  39  

Albuquerque  53  32  Denver  42  32  
Atlanta  80  57  Los Angeles  66  50  
Boston  46  41  Miami  80  71  
Chicago  68  51  New Orleans  84  64  
Dallas  72  69  New York  57  41  


=T,=u=es=d=ay=,O==c(=o=be=r=3=1=·2=0=0=0=========================Th=e=O=b=se=rv=e=r=•=C=A==M==P=U=S==N=E=W===s====================================-=P='~ 
Vaccine shortage threatens U.S. 
By KELLY HAGER 
News Writer 
Flu vaccine supplies expect­ed to be distributed this year should be approximately equal to what was distributed last year, but a substantial amount of vaccine will reach providers later than usual, the Center for Disease Control said last week. The announcement was a revi­sion from a prior announ(;e­ment that there would be a shortage of the flu vaccine this year. 
The Influenza vaccine, the shot that protects humans from the flu, is in high demand this year as more people become aware of the importance of immunization. According to manufacturers of the vaccine, approximately 75 million doses are being produced for distrib­ution. This total is higher than last year, which totaled a net distribution of 7 4 million doses. Most vaccine doses usually become available to providers bv October with 99 percent of distributed doses available before December. However, where as most of the vaccina­tions were given in earlier October in previous years, this year. as many as 18 million doses are expected to be dis­tributed in December. 
Due to this potential health impact of the delayed flu vac­cine availability, the CDC 
J 
r ' '
t 
"~/ ' 
... I
) 
t 
' 
updated their recommenda­tions for the 2000-01 season with overall attempts to safe­guard those people who are considered "at risk." 
At risk people include all persons over the age of 65 and those with chronic medical conditions. Also. manv stu­dents are considered high-risk due to the sharing of dassroom and living space. This is espe­cially true for college students who reside in dorms. College students sharing quarters and living spaces are often hit by the flu because they fail to be vaccinated. 
Another recommendation the CDC promotes is in re~ard to the importance of mass vacci­nation campaigns scheduled later in the seasons, as the vac­cine becomes more available. During this time, which is expected to begin in November, the CDC will focus efforts on increasing participa­tion by high-risk persons and their household contacts. 
Such a group is already in full force serving the South Rend area. FluBusters. a· Community Outreach program or Saint Joseph's Regional Medical Center, has been hold­ing community flu vaccinations for the past month in prepara­tion of the season. 
"We have been working within the community for the past couple months as we enter the flu season hoping to 
l. 
') 
I 

get as many people vaccinated as possible," said Erin Pagel, wellness coordinator for Saint Joseph's Medical Center, who also worked with PluBusters in previous years. 
Pagel, along with a staff of nurses, volunteers and clerks, plan daily trips to businesses and other sites within .the wunty to administer and pro­mote the vaccine. During peak flu season, the FluBusters even offer a drive-thru vaccination site, where people can literally drive through anq be vaccinat­ed. Organizers hope the site makes the ordeal as non-com­plicated as possible. 
"Our whole goal is to make vaccinations easily accessible to all people who are in need of the flu vaccine." shared Pagel. "The drives target people that cannot get to physician's offices and other providers." 
Vaccination efforts for all groups will continue into the holiday season and later, as long as the flu vaccine is avail­able. Production of the vaccine will continue through December. Students who would like to be vaccinated should call Health Services, or their doctor for more informa­tion. 
"We encourage everyone to get vaccinated against the flu," said Pagel. "Influenza is a seri­ous disease that can be con­trolled and prevented through proper immunization." 
Kotlowitz analyzes race in newest book 
ByMEGDADAY 
News Writer 
Storytelling is what author Alex Kotlowitz said he loves to do most when he read excerpts from his book "The Other Side of the River" Monday in the Hammes Bookstore. 
"Storytelling has a fierce power. It agitates, it provokes, it forces us to think of the world a little bit differently." said Kotlowitz, the University's jour­nalist-in-residence this semes­ter, during his discussion about his book. 
Despite the two years Kotlowitz spent with 
American, was chased toward the river dividing the two towns, first by the owner of the car and later by an off-duty policeman. McGinnis disap­peared that night and his body washed upon the St. Joseph side of the river five days later. 
More than an analysis of the handling of and attitudes toward McGinnis's death, Kotlowitz describes the book as taking an in-depth look at the "often contentious issue of race." 
"The two towns came to view the death with different per­spectives," said Kotlowitz. 
Most of the white, middle 
class, St. 
Joseph resi­

Lafayette "Storytelling has afierce dents dis­
a n d missed it as an 
power. It agitates, it

Pharaoh accidental Hive rs provokes, it forces us to death believ­
w h i I e think ofthe world a little ing the boy 
working on tried to escape
bit differently." 

the book police by 
many Arts swimming and Letters Alex Kotlowitz down the river students toward Benton
author 

read in Core class, "There are No Children Here," he said that he "never spoke openly and honestly about race with the two boys." 
Kotlowitz's curiosity about racial attitudes and his belief that "white Americans don't think race still matters in this country," led him to the two Michigan towns of St. Joseph and Bentori Harbor in May 1992. Although they are similar in size, the two towns are dras­tically different; St. Joseph is fairly affluent and Benton Harbor is mostly poor. More notably, St. Joseph is 95 per­cent white and Benton Harbor is 93 percent black. 
The residents of the two towns have little to do with one another, but the mysterious death of 16-year-old Benton Harbor resident Eric McGinnis in May 1991 stirred emotions and controversy in both towns. 
Caught in the act of stealing $44 from the glove compart­ment of a car outside a popular teenage nightclub in St. Joseph, McGinnis, an African-Harbor. Their 
counterparts 
across the river had other opinions. 
"The people of Benton Harbor were convinced not only that he had been mur­dered, but that he had been murdered by a white person," said Kotlowitz. 
Kotlowitz said that he hopes that his writing will "push peo­ple a little to think about them­selves." 
He believes that "The Other Side of the River" has done that to some extent because when the book came out, people in St. Joseph had mixed reactions to it, some of which were better than he expected. Hopefully, the book will encourage resi­dents on both sides of the river to reevaluate their beliefs and possibly spur some to take steps to correct the relationship between the two towns. 
"Some people up there are filled with hate," said Kotlowitz. "But for the most part I found people who would like to do right by each other and don't know where to begin." 
November 4'\ 2000 g,h Annual 

MARA,E,Q~ FUN RUN 
.-.:Jtf{( :\/(f 
on

Mara died;;i~t,79flfl?JF 
We encourage cveryo :· le race; prizes will be award . for 
sp' 

Look to pre-register: meet at 10:30, run .•.•· : Lyons' Basketba:, Courts . $12 day-of 
price includes long sleeve t-shin and continental breakfast contacts: Liz 4-0901 or Laura 4-2759 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 31, 2000 


AFP Pho1o 

Republican vice presidential nominee Dick Cheney has been plagued by his spotty voting record. He has not voted in 14 of the last 16 local elections in Texas. 
Got some extra time to kill this week? 
3: 
-
-
Cheney 
continued from page l 
control by the states and a small federal government. Cheney's voting record must be evaluated within the context of this ideology, said Wolbrecht. 
Cheney has defended his record stating that some of his votes as a House member were the result of procedural traps set by Democrats. Bush has continuously backed his run­ning mate's record in response to the criticism from opponents earlier in the campaign. 
Schmuhl noted that after the vice presidential debate with Democrat nominee Joe Lieberman, the perception of Cheney shifted as he spoke about sensitive issues such as racial profiling and gay rights. 

As citizens make their final decision next week, Donald Kommers, professor at the Notre Dame Law School, said that Cheney's voting record in the House will not have a sig­nificant influence over whether voters decide to vote Republican or Democrat in the impending election. 
"It will help Bush more than hurt him," Kommers said, adding that if anything, Cheney's nomination helped to consolidate his base of conserv­ative Republicans. 
Win two Oseason tickets! 
Thursday November 2nd 
Lafortune Ballroom 7:00pm brought to you by your friends at the Alliance for Catholic Education 
Pumpkin Pointing Fieldhouse Moll Today 4-7pm 
FREE 
Acoustic Cofe 
Lafortune 
Thursday 
9pm 
APerfect Storm 
1 0 1 DeBartolo Thursday 10:30 Friday & Saturday 
Stepan Center 12s Student Tickets Friday 
7:30pm 
Free Laundry Doy Bodin and LaFortune Sunday 
10am-8pm 
Rules of Engagement 
155 DeBartolo Thursday 10:30 Friday and Saturday 



ATION 
Tuesday, October 31, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Armenians rally to remove leader: 
More than 10,000 people rallied in the Armenian capital Monday to demand the res­ignation of President Robert Kocharian over the nation's grim economic situation. The rally's organizer, Arkady Vartanian, was detained afterward by police who said the demonstration was unsanctioned. Vartanian leads the 21st Century Association, a coalition of small political parties, none of which is resented in parliament. 
Storm kills 8 in Europe: A powerful storm barreled across western Europe on Monday, ravaging ancient oaks, grounding flights, cutting power to more than 100,000 homes and snarling traffic. At least eight peo­ple were killed. The storm left Eurorail out of service. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Gore seeks black vote in election: 
President Clinton urged black voters Monday to support Al Gore, saying there would be no one to restrain Republicans from damaging the economy, the·environment, health care and schools if Republican George W. Bush is elected president. Clinton joined black enter­tainers like Queen Latifah and Hispanic star Jimmy Smits on a 45-minute radio show in an effort to turn out the vote. 
Los Angeles water contamination: 
City records show that industrial runoff with possibly dangerous levels of chromium 6 was discharged for two decades into storm drains that flowed into the Los Angeles River, the Los Angeles Times reported Monday. The records obtained by the newspaper offer the first detailed evidence of how the chemical may have been introduced to the Los Angeles area's ground water. leading to contamina­tion that still troubles the region today. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Danville team drinks toilet water: 
Members of a high school girls volleyball team are undergoing medical tests after a team­mate admitted she filled bottles of drinking water in toilets. She was suspended for five days -the maximum allowed under state law. 
Three Elkhart teens arrested: Three teen-agers have been arrested for burglariz­ing an auto parts store and torturing and killing a kitten the store employees had adopt­ed. The cat was named Gizmo. 
Market Watch 10/30 
Dow 
]ONES Up: l,799 AMIDC:  10,835.77 Same: 489 •  +245.15 Composite Volume: NIA  
Nasdaq:  3191.40  -86.96  
NYSE:  c;54.s~ '":Ji±:  +1~:;,elcfl:l  
S&P 500:  1398.66  +19.08  

TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANYISECURJTI %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -5.18 -2.62 48.06 MICROSOFT CORI' (M5FTI +2.0j + 1.37 69.06 JNTEL CORP IINTC) -2.% -1.37 45.00 NORTEL NETWORKS (NT) -6.02 -2.56 40.00 WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) t 12.77 +2.81 24.88 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
ISRAEL 


AFP Photo Palestinian youths throw stones at Israelis crossing Karni In the Gaza Strip Monday as the region continues to be plagued by violence. Two Israeli deaths, the first in a month, prompted a massive Israeli missile strikes. 
Missiles fly in retaliation of deaths 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
In one of the most intense Israeli assaults in a month of fighting, attack helicopters unleashed mis­sile attacks Monday night on offices of Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat's Fatah movement, strikes meant to retaliate for the killings of two Israelis. 
Israel fired warnings to clear the four offices in the West Bank and Gaza Strip before firing missiles, Israel television said. The missiles set off fires, but there were no immediate reports of injuries. 
The two killings were the first Israeli deaths in and around Jerusalem since the violence began last month. At least 45 Palestinians were wounded Monday. 
"I don't know what the Israelis are trying to achieve through this lan­guage," Palestinian. spokesman Saeb Erekat told army radio. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak "said that violence will not be rewarded or achieve anything. The prime minis­ter needs to listen to him­self." 
Earlier in the day, Barak opened the winter session of parliament and won a temporary reprieve for his unstable, minority govern­ment, warning Palestinians there would "be no reward for violence." 
The Israeli military said it zeroed in on posts belonging to Arafat's body­guards, known as Force 17, and his paramilitary organization, called the Tanzim. "The army won't let civilians, communities • and soldiers be struck," the military said, apparently referring to the two Israelis killed. 
Ephraim Sneh, Israel's deputy defense minister, described the operation as a "measured response." 
"There's almost no limit to what we can do," he said in a television interview. 
In parliament, Barak's coalition appeared safe from collapse for at least the next few weeks. The ultra-Orthodox Shas party, Israel's third-largest, said it would support him for the next month, and Ariel Sharon, the hawkish leader of the opposition Likud party, told parliament he still hadn't given up on the idea of joining an emer­genc.y coalition with Barak's government. 
However, the conflict with the Palestinians remained on the boil, and Arafat gave no sign of ordering an end to the street confrontations. 
In Gaza on Monday, he declared, "Until Jerusalem, until Jerusalem, until Jerusalem, the capital of our independent Palestinian state." 
In his speech to parlia­ment, Barak warned Arafat that he "would gain noth­ing through violence." 
"Neither will you," shout­ed Issam Mahoul, one of 10 Arab lawmakers in the leg­islature, all of them angry over the deaths of Israeli Arab citizens during recent riots. Mahoul and other Arab legislators heckled Barak and Sharon during their speeches. 

U.S. struggles for leads in Cole bombing 
investigation. ''There have been dif­they can do it."
Associated Press 

ficulties now," he added. Clinton said he argued to 
WASHINGTON "I hope that we can work it President Ali Abdullah Saleh that 
President Clinton said Monday out,"Clinton said, "because I do the United States and Yemen should there are "some promising leads" in believe that they want to know who have "a genuine, joint investiga­the investigation of the bombing of did it and I know that we have to t.ion" as it had with Kenya and the USS Cole but the United States find out who did it. There are some Tanzania when U.S. embassies is encountering obstacles in Yemen promising leads out there. We just there were targets of terrorist as it pursues the case. need to get on it as quickly as possi­attacks. 
He appealed directly to Yemen's ble because the problem in these Secretary of State Madeleine president for direct access to wit­things is that the trail can get cold." Albright said that Yemen "had to nesses, suspects and evidence in He said that Yemeni officials "are cooperate more" as the United the Oct. 12 attack that. killed 17 worried about having America States searches for links to Islamic 
U.S. sailors and injured 39 others. deploy more resources in Yemen to militant Osama bin Laden, who has 
Clinton said Yemen had cooperat­do the investigation than they are. I emerged as the prime focus of the ed fully in the first phase of the think they feel comfortable that investigation. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, Ocorber 31, 2000 
Microsoft products available to hackers 
"Beyond that, we really can't 

A•sociatcd Press 
say much more." Miller acknowledged the
SEATfLE 
hacker could have been in the

When the first couple of system longer than 1 2 days
new accounts popped up, the but said the company is confi­
network administrators at 
dent that high-level accessMicrosuf't Corp. didn't pay too occurred only between Oct.

much attention. Most likely, 
14-25. 

someone new didn't set them Even with low-level access, up properly. 
the hacker could have

Then a few more accounts 
accessed corporate e-mail

appeared. Then more. 
and other confidential infor­Within a few days, there mation, Miller said. 

were about two dozen new Mark Rasch. a former
accounts. What's worse, who­
Justice Department official 

ever was creating them start­and now vice president of theud trying to 
Reston,

upgrade 
Va.-based

their net­
"It's tough because once computer

work privi­
security
the hacker creates the

1 C g CS , 
firm Global

including accounts. he can look like 
Integrity,

permission 
a normal person s a i d

to view high-ltwel logging in." Microsoft's 
lack of sue-files and 

cess is

their morc­
Mark Rasch 
common

s ens itive 
former Justice Deparbnent official among the

informa­
industry.

tion. 
"Only theThat, according to sources 

dumb ones get caught,"familiar with the case, is 

Rasch said. "Microsoft's expe­when Microsoft called in its rience is not atypical, espe­computer security team. 

cially if the bad guy was

Company officials believe smart."
the hacker had access for 
Sources close to the case,about 12 days, but only to the who did not wish to be identi­

source code, or blueprints, fied, told The Associated
for a single product that is Press that the company man­
still in the early stages of 
aged to learn of the infiltra­development. That contrasts tion early. 

to initial company statements While the hacker was able
that the hacker could have to create new accounts forhad access for up to five 
himself, many computer net­weeks. 

works build in that kind of

But Microsoft officials admitted Monday that its flexibility so that midlevel computer experts were managers can create 
unable to track the infiltrator accounts for new workers despite more than a week's and teams. worth or electronic cat-and­"It's tough because once the 
mouse through the compa-hacker creates the accounts, ny's network. • he can look like a normal per­
"We are continuing to work son logging in," Rasch said. closely with law enforce­"So which accounts do you ment," said company monitor? There's always a spokesman Rick Miller. chance you'd miss one." 
THEO 346/01 ART AND THE 

HOLOCAUST "Transformation and Transfiguration: The Art of Samuel Bak" Sun., Nov. 5, 11:00-5:30 1st class meets in the Snite Museum All other classes: OSHA 106 5-7 p.m. Tues., Nov. 7 Tues., Nov. 14 
R bb. M. I Is· Thurs., Nov 16 
a 1 1c 1ea 1gner I credit hour S/U he Holocaust, otherwise known as the destruction of European Jews hy the Nazi regime, has become a major topic in both religious and ·ecular discussions. It is the major example of human generated evil. If the goal of art is to edify human beings. how is it possible to create rtistic representations ofevil? This one credit hour course wil focus n the current exhibition at the Snite Museum: "Transfonnations and ransfigurations: The Art ofSamuel Bak." Students will spend time t the exhibit. attend the lecture and symposium at the Snite Museum n November 5, 2000, and engage in a thorough discussion after the symposium. They will be asked to write a reflection paper 7-10 pages hat synthesizes their experience and discuss it. 
outside in the snow will make "Maybe they can make a students sick and miss days of part of Regina (Hall's) basc­
S01oking 
school." me n t into a smoking study To remedy student con­lounge," says Emily James,
continued from page 1 
cerns, sume students proposed Saint Mary's sophomore. 
one wants to stop smoking," converting one space on cam­The task force has not says Jessica White, a Saint pus into a designated smoking decided on any such proposi­Mary's sophomore. "Smoking area. tion. 
The William and Katherine· Devers Program in Dante Studies in conjunction with Gender Studies :,,pi\/)=·,·..,,=,:::;\. presents: 

Collections 


The lecture is free and open to the public. For further inforrration contact the D:Ners Program in D:mte 
I 
I 



Stop by,
All are invited to 
eat some cake,

attend aPress 
and learn aboutConferenee and 

Notre Dame's

Reception in 
on~ student-runrecognition of Internet radio

\WFl's new 
station

global status 
Celebrate the Dawning of WVfl'i 61obal Era thii Wedntjday, Novemben in the Notre Dame Room at10 a.m. 

wvfi • nd.edu 
Teusday, October 31 , 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 


0MPU5 
/VUNISTRY 
112 Badin Hall 631-5242 103 Hesburgh library 637-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ ministry March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center 

September 25-0ctober 31 
Christian Spirituality·~
103 Hesburgh Library 
A PASSION FOR TIIE HUMAN
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 
(Nov. 3-4, 2000) 
Rev. LorenzoAlbacete
Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Farley, 
Keough, Howard, Dillon, Lyons, McGlinn, 
Priest and theology professor
Pasquerilla West, Sorin 
at St. Joseph's Seminary in New York 
Monday-Tuesday, October 30-31 
]\1sgr. Albacete will discuss lay
11 : 3 0 pm-1O:OOpm 
St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
spirituality from t/w perspective
Eucharistic Adoration 
of the lay Catholic movement, 
Tuesday, October 31, 7:00 p.m. 
COMMUNION AND LIBERATION,
Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
and the work of its founder, 
Wednesday, November 1 
Monsignor Luigi Giussani. 
All Saints Day 
•·.:r..­

Panel of Respondents: 
..,:.· :;.,.f'

Wednesday, November 1, 10:00 p.m. 
Rev. Timothy Scully, CSC Rev. Virgil Elizondo M. Katherine Tillman: .
Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Executive Vice-President Professor of Theology Assoc. Professor 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
and Professor of Government and 1997 winner of Notre Program of Liberal Studies Dame's Laetare Medal 
Friday-Saturday, November 3-4 St. Joe Hall 
Monday, November 13th Hesburgh Center 
Freshmen Retreat #31 
4.00 for International Peace Studies · p.m. Auditorium 
Friday-Sunday. November 3-5 
Reception to follow in the Hesburgh Center Atrium 
Fatima Retreat Center 
Students are highly encouraged to attend 
All are welcome
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #63 
Saturday, November 4 Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception 
Retreat 
Fort Wayne. Indiana 
Folk Choir Jubilee Concert & Tour Vigil Mass -5:00 p.m. Concert of Sacred Music -7:30 p.m. 
Sixth Annual Retreat 
Sunday, November 5, l :30 p.m. 
November 1 7th-18th 
Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Patrick M. Neary, c.s.c. 
For more information, please contact: 
November 6-27 
Tom Doyle,C.S.C. 1-4112 Doyle.22@nd.edu
103 Hesburgh Library 
or Tami Schmitz 1-3016 Schmitz.8@nd.edu 
Begin Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 (Dec. 1-2, 2000) 
1rick or1rea+
~ 
Targeted Donns: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Fisher, Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford, and Welsh Family 
You don'-+ have to wait for HaUoween to get FREE. candv 
Stop by Campus Ministry's Library office anytime to get involved 




and grab a handful of M&Ms while you're there! 
Hefburgh Librarv Mon•Thur 8:00aM •9:00pM Office hours Fri 8:00aM • 5:00pM 
Praver Oppor+uni+v 
Come slin9 & pray wlii:h Chrisi:lians of all falii:h i:radlii:lions. 
Led by s1uden1s lor students. 
EYery Wednesday @ I O p.m. Norrissej Hall Chapel

lnte~iiMOOI 
featurjn9 1he Celebra-tion Choir
nrr,.ht []J.t\)Jer 
ALL ARE WELCOME 


DILBERT 


E 
0 
'! 
.;
., 
®
., 
E
.. 
'0.. 
r, 
0 
u
.. 
E 
8 
~ 
QI 
a 
'o 
i 
YOU MU5T FIND A 
NEW JOB WITHIN THE COMPANY DURING THAT TIME. 
\ 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nom Dame. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Norrc D,mc, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BIJSINiiSS MANAGliR  
Nor~en Gillespi~  Tim lane  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Christine Kraly  Brian Kc.sic,  

NEWS EDITOR• Anne Marie Matringlv VrnwrolNT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smuh ScFNF EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARr'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: F.lizaheth Lang 
ADVFRTISINC MAN,'.GER: Pat Peters AD DE.SIGN MANACt;R: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gnnville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adom Turner CONTROI.LER• Bob Wood, GRAi'HICS EDITOR: Jose Cudl.ir 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENF:IW. INFO........... 631-7471 FAX.......................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING........... .. .. .. .. .. ......... .. .63 J-6900/8840 
observer@datwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmToRIAssT. ME . .................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS ....................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
V!F.WP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.. ...........................................631-4S40 
observer.scene. I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's... ................................... 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................63 l -S839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://olwrver.nd.edu for daily 
1pda1es of.:ampus news. sports, features and opmion columns, as wdl as ca,roons, reviews and breaking news from rhc Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
Tuesday, October 31, 2000 


u 
-= 
! 
.;
;.
., 
f 
~ 
"-~ 
,, 
:! 
c 
=> 
0 0 
" 0 Q 
0 
~ 
;:; 
~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
IS THE SPRAY-PAINT ABSOLUTELY 
NECESSARY? 
I THAT'S AN "L." 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Constantly choosing the lesser of two evils is still choosing evil. " 
Jerry Garcia musician 

Simplifying abortion with pills 
On Sept. 28, the Food & Drug Administration approved the marketing of mifepristone, or RU-486, the abor­tion pill used in France for more than a decade. Danco Laboratories will mar­ket it under the name Mifeprex. The drug will allow women to have abor­tions in the privacy of their own homes up to seven weeks after their last men­strual period. The woman first takes RC-486 (mifepris­tone). which neu­tralizes proges­terone, a hormone required to main­tain pregnancy. About two days later she returns to the doctor to receive misoprostol, a prostoglandin that contracts the uterus, expelling the child. Two weeks later the woman returns to the doctor to ensure that the abortion is complete. She must agree to have a surgical abortion to complete the job if necessary, which is needed in 5 percent of the cases. Possible side effects of the RU-486 regi­men include bleeding, cramping, nau­sea, headaches, vomiting and diarrhea. 
There is one catch. Misoprostol, the second drug used in this procedure, is sold by Searle under the name Cytotec. It is approved by the FDA as a treat­ment for ulcers. Since doctors may legally prescribe any approved drug for any purpose, separate FDA approval is not required for the use of misoprostol to complete the RU-486 abortion. On Aug. 23, 2000, howev<'r, Searl<' issued a warning that "Cytotec is not approved for the induction of labor or abortion ... Serious adverse events reported follow­ing off-label use ofCytotec in pregnant women include maternal or fetal death; 

Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 
uterine hyperstimulation, rupture or perforation requiring uterine surgical repair, hysterectomy or salpingo­oophorectomy; amniotic fluid embolism; severe vaginal bleeding. retained placenta, shock, fetal brady­cardia and pelvic pain." Despite this warning, the FDA, on Sept. 28, "approved" the RU-486 "regimen" including the use of misoprostol con­trary to the Searle warning. The FDA website says, "Patients taking Mifeprex must take 400 ug of misoprostol two days after taking mifepristone unless a complete abortion has already been confirmed." This is your federal gov­ernment at work, using your tax dollars to protect maternal health. 
Apart from the risk to the mother, a further legal complication in the use of RU-486 is the possible application to it of state laws that regulate abortion, including notice to parents of a minor, counseling and waiting periods, dispos­al of fetal remains, etc. 
Physicians already can terminate pregnancies by giving high doses of birth control pills, or the "emergency contraceptive" pill, within 72 hours of unprotecte<l intercourse. Human life begins at the fertilization of the ovum by the sperm. Such "morning after" pills or "emergency contraceptives" are therefore not truly contraceptives. They kill the unborn child by preventing his implantation in the wall of the womb from which he would otherwise draw sustenance until his birth. 
RU-486 allows the mother to kill bv pill at later stages than such early · abortifacients. We may expect further improvements that will reduce side effects and simplify the killing proce­dure. In 1973 the Supreme Court invented a "right to privacy" which included the right to murder one's own unborn child. Now technology is mak­ing abortion a truly private matter, beyond the effective reach of the law. 
Legalized abortion, whether surgical or chemical, is an outgrowth of the contraceptive ethic in which one makes himself or herself the arbiter of whether and when life shall begin and, predictably, of whether and when it shall end. In Evangclium Vitae, John Paul II described abortion and contra­ception as "closely connected, as fruits of the same tree." "[Tlhe pro-abortion culture,'; he said. "is especially strong ... where the church's teaching on con­traception is rejected. [!Jn ... many ... instances such practices are rooted in a hedonistic mentality unwilling to accept responsibility ... and they imply a self­centered concept of' freedom, which regards procreation as an obstacle to personal fulfillment. The lif'e which could result from a sexual encounter thus becomes an enemy to be avoided at all costs. and abortion becomes the only possible decisive response to con­traception. The close connection between ... contraception and ... abor­tion ... is ... demonstrated ... by the development of ... products, ... which, distributed with the same ease as con­traceptives, ... act as abortifacients in the very early stages of ... the life of the new human being . ., 
It is fitting that the manufacturer of RU-486 for Danco is Hua Lian Pharmaceutical Co. in Shanghai. HU­486 is used in China to implement its one-child policy which includes forced abortion and infanticide. China. of course, cares nothing for the life of the child nor for the health of the mother. Neither, it appears, does the Clinton Administration. 
Professor Rice is a professor in the Law School. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of lhe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
weather for up-co-the minute forecasts 
advertise for policies and rates of print acL 
archives to search for articles published after August 1999 movies/music for weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors and staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by che scudents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the ma1ority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not nca:ssarily those of The Observer. 
Vll"Wpoinr space is available co all rc::iders. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Edi tor must be signed and must include comaci information. 
Qurslions r,gard,11g Ob,..,.,,n-polici,s should be @reef­ed 10 Editor i11 Chiej'MiJ.e Connolly. 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Tuesday, October 31, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Using Nader to 
•
win our Democracy 

Although volunteers may have collected enough petition signatures, Ralph Nader and his vice presidential running mate Winona LaDuke did not get on the ballot in Indiana. Fortunately, they did achieve status as "declared," ie., official. write-in candidates, which means you can write them in as candidates and have your vote for them counted. (for those of you voting by absentee ballots in other states, they're write-in candidates in Georgia, Idaho and Wyoming, and are on the ballot in all other states except North Carolina, Oklahoma and South Dakota.) 
But the state of Indiana and St. Joseph County aren't going to make it easy for you to successfully vote for them as write-in candidates. To do so in St. Joseph County, you must immediately ask for a write-in ballot when you sign in at the polling station and before you enter an individ­ual polling booth. They should give you three separate ballots: a county ballot, a state ballot and a presidential ballot. You cannot utilize St. Joseph County's mechanical voting machines at all if you want to write-in even just one candidate; you must use old-fashioned paper ballots to cast all your vote choices. For all three ballots, you should carefully read the instructions and mark your choices. It's possible to vote a straight party ticket on the county and state ballots and still write-in on the presidential ballot. On the presidential ballot, to vote for Nader and LaDuke, you have to mark the box next to the write-in option and then write in their names. The polling stations will not have any signs displayed about how to write-in candidates or who the declared write in candidates are -the burden is on you both to ask for the ballot and to write in their names. When I lived in Seattle, where we'd routinely vote on several ambiguously titled ballot initiatives and a plethora of obscure nonpartisan offices, I'd bring my voting "cheat­sheet" with me into the booth, (This is perfectly legal; political parties sometimes print such sheets up for voters to use.) 
If you're still planning to vote for Gore because you don't want "Dubya" to win, rest assured that you can vote for Nader/LaDuke in Indiana with a clear conscience. Remember the Electoral College? Because our presidents aren't elected by national popular vote, you should be thinking about the presidential ticket in terms of your own state, not according to the national race ot national polling trends. As nationally-syndicated columnist Molly Ivins has suggested, you should vote for Nader if you live in a state that's solidly for Bush. since your vote for Gore in those states is very unlikely to help him nationally. According to various sources, that leaves approximately 11 states which are possible toss-ups -states in which you'll have to decide between voting for the best candidate {Nader) or voting for the lesser of two evils: Delaware, Florida, Michigan, Missouri. Nevada. New Mexico, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and Wisconsin. As you may have noticed, Indiana isn't one of the few swing states that Gore and Bush have been concentrating on for the last couple of months. 
From 1948 to 1996, Indiana cast its Electoral College votes (depend­ing on the year, its 12 or 13 of the 270 needed to win) for a Republican all but one time, when it voted for Johnson over Goldwater in 1964. Recent polls in the [ndianapolis Star and South Bend Tribune in September had Bush leading Gore by seven or nine points. Hotlinescoop.com, a site that compiles the "most recent reputable state polls," shows Bush with a 12 point lead in Indiana. Voting for Gore in Indiana isn't going to help him beat Bush nationally, so why waste your vote? 
Instead, you could try to help Nader get a minimum of 5 percent of the vote, which would qualify him (or the next Green Party nominee) for the public funding in the next election. Katha Pollitt of "Tho Nation" correctly points out that, despite many depressing similarities, there are still some meaningful differences between Bush and Gore. Yet, for many years she also argues that leftists of all stripes have been repeat­edly betrayed and taken advantage of by Clinton/Gore and tho Democratic Party for far too long. Presidential and electoral politics are definitely not the sole or arguably the even most important. methods to address issues of social justice or to win back our democracy from its corporate sponsors. Leftists need to be struggling for these issues at all levels of politics. from the grassroots and local levels on up. And Nader's certainly not perfect, but voting for him in Indiana is surely better than further legitimizing Gore's right-centrist politics. Given that your vote for Nader one won't help elect Bush and two could help Nader get public financing (and thus a more visible forum for talking about sorely neglected issues), I'm hard pressed to see what moral and political justification could possibly be given for voting for Gore in Indiana -or, for that matter, in any of the other non-swing states. 
Jacinda Swanson 
PhD candidate o~rober 27, 2000 

Finding international stereotypes 
Battling the onslaught of the Austrian flu, I stumbled alone and motherless two Wednesdays ago to M-Pries, the local super­market. As I feverishly searched the aisles of familiar products bearing unfamiliar names for tea and honey and tissues, an older woman clasping a packet of instant noodles mum­bled in Tirolian dialect. I lacked the ability to dis­cern her words, uttered a quiet "excuse me" as I attempted to squeeze past her and marvelled at her one-sided conver­sation. Suddenly she 

Joanna
turned h~r eyes from 
Mikulski
the small bag of conve­nience towards my pale face and scolded me 
Innsbruck 
loudly and forcefully 
Stimme
for my apparent igno­rance. Frantically I uti­lized my last resort phrase for such situations, roughly translated from the German, "I am an American. I only speak a little German." Her eyes grew and filled the entire lens of her Frisbee-sized glasses. Then raising her chest to the ceiling she shouted in a voice that consumed the 
inside of the small market, again roughly translated, "Yeah well I am a Tiroler. I am an Austrian." I covered my face with a box of tissues to protect it from the stoning by Austrian scattered over my desk, had earlier declared that she had never seen a clean room during a six month stay in the United States. She had seen orderly spaces in Austria, but never in 
the United States. The idea of "sneakers and jeans" featured prominently in our conversa­
tion. 
[t stood parallel to the word "McDonald's." Karin's brother apparently had asked her whether I ate many hamburgers. Another important concept in the characterization of Americans: the microwave. In Europe the inhabitants practice a religion that forbids their use. Twice in the last week roommates of uninformed Notre Dame students have cringed and turned red in quite embarrass­ment after watching their American friend place an item of food in the microwave, co·ok it and then eat it. Dan Birk's roommate, in fact, defined the American lifestyle with a sim­ple phrase, "microwaving a Kase-Frankfurter and eating it on a croissant." 
To my surprise, considering my earlier adventures, the older Austrians that I asked stereotyped Americans less eagerly than our twenty-something friends. One Tiroler, to the agreement of our director's wife, Anita, replied that the numerous ethnic groups that inhabit the U.S. prohibit any classification of 
Americans. However he did mention that 
he thought all Americans spoke annoyingly through their noses. (Our professor in Salzburg ~~ thought so as well. He mock­..,..-~ ingly cringed his nose, squint­..... ed his eyes and withheld his 

bags of Ramen that ~-· breath with every English seemed imminent and ( • r ~ word that he uttered.) cowered to the cashier. / '"" Anita also contended that 
Later as I considered · \ J the ubiquitous presence my terrific ability to \ '-, """"', of American restau­endear myself to the { Ja J rants, clothes and 
older Austrian set, LLL \. 1 ] music in Austria have 
another incident that .---.:::­I had repressed 
\

resurfaced in my consciousness. We travelled from Innsbruck to Salzburg in a bus not equipped to carry the luggage of 22 students exploring Europe for an entire year. Consequently, to the perturbation of our driver a number of our suitcases sprawled out in the back seats during the journey. Unloading pre­sented a few issues and I, polite and helpful, moved my feet from the floor onto the seat as my fellow Innsbruckers pulled their bags past my chair. Our driver, standing guard at the door, witnessed my assault on the dignity of his bus and forcibly moved my feet back onto the floor with the strength of his words, "Typical American. We don't do that in Europe." Flabbergasted, [ wondered. what exactly is a typical American for Austrians? Are we simply ignorant human beings who accidentally ignore old ladies in the grocery store and defile chairs with our feet? Or does a greater definition lie in the hearts of Austrians? 
I turned first to the fortunate Austrian stu­dents that inhabit rooms with the Innsbruckers this year. My roommate Karin could not give me a direct answer, but informed me that she and other Austrians could instantaneously spot an American walk­ing down the street.. "I cannot explain it. You just know." Her friend, observing the clothes 
l ~ \. effected the adoption .-----of an American ./ lifestyle by the youth 
,,r of Europe. With every McDonald's built underneath a 
European historical landmark, like the famous Golden Roof of Innsbruck, the stereotype of the typ­ical American 
teenager personifies to an ever greater degree the typical Austrian teenager. For better or worse that is. Abiding by the American concepts of justice and equality for all, I asked the Notre Dame students to speculate on the stereotypes that Austrians apply to Americans. I heard these words: loud, obnoxious, stressed out, over­weight and lazy. With the words "typical American" ringing in my ears, 
I looked at my friends and observed aloud, "Wow. we really have a fantastic view of our­selves." Marik Frens-String. bitter that at seven o'clock in the evening not a single gro­cery store in the city of the Innsbruck remained open, turned and announced, "Lazy! Cancel that! Austrians are the lazy ones. They close their stores early and don't even work on Sundays." Oh well, so much for stereotypes. 
Joanna Mikulski is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. She is spending the semester abroad in Innsbruck, Austria. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ALBUM REVIEW 

Fleck's latest effort fails on its move toward pop 
instrumental tracks, but is riddled the level of a third grader, bla­By GEOFFREY RAHIE 
with guests and almost laughable tanatly talking about love and Scene Music Critic 
lyrics. world peace in nearly every song. 
The 40 second intro that kicks It doesn't help that Future Man's
The age of alterna-pop and the disc off is basically a sax lrio voice is paper thin. And when boy bands has all but that does a good job of setting the Shawn Colvin starts singing the destroyed the airwaves across the tone for the next track "Hoe words "Way up high," you know country, leaving music lovers to Down." For those of you unfamil­that something must be wrong. abandon radio to find some iar with that title, it is a work by It's a shame that the album was worthwhile music. One of those the great American composer not entirely instrumental. For few bands making worthwhile Aaron Copeland The Flecktoncs, years, the band has been putting music for years has been Bela with some help from guests, do on startating live shows and col­Fleck and the Flecktones. an excellent job reworking this lecting awards for best contempo­Composed of Bela Fleck (ban­classic. The band basically trans­rary jazz group. So when they jos), Jeff Coffin {saxm,. Dute. clar­ports the listener to a country play some technically bombastic inet), Future Man (synth-axe dru­jamboree. material, listeners are in for a mita.r, vocals) and Victor Wooten However, trouble starts to brew real treat. The standout "Lover's (assorted basses) the Flecktones when Future Man starts to take Leap" comes complete with clar­have deep roots in jazz and blue­over on lead vocals with backing inet work from Coffin and a grass. While their early work is from guest Shawn Colvin (of mind-blowing bass solo from instrumental bliss. their last cou­"Sonny Came Home" fame.) Just Wooten. These two men prove to ple of albums have been brought about the time when "A Moment be the brightest spots on an oth­down by their aspirations for So Close" starts to kick in, Future erwise below-par album. Wooten crossover pop success. Their lat­Man lays down some truly dopey adds more solidification to the est, Outbound. contains strong lyrics. The lyric complexity is on thought that he might bet.he best 
player known to man. Fleck's In Outbound, Bella Reck and the Recktones attempt to broaden 
delicate picking sets the tone for their musical style. The experiment left many fans unsatisfied. 
the beautiful "Hall of Mirrors."
Outbound His playing can alternate from 
insane banjo fireworks to slow afocianodos can salivate over. All around, things could be
Bela Fleck and melodic bliss. The band should not be about worse -there could have been 
There should be no complaints trying to change the world, or singing on every track. It would
The Flecktones 

on the musical chops displayed score a hit on the radio. And who have been more enjoyable to lis­
by the four core members, or the made the decision to let Shawn ten to a six track EP of simply
Warner Brothers instrumental guests for that mat­Colvin sing backup? This is covered instrumental standards. 
Records ter. The problem with the effort almost as bad as their last studio Instead Future Man and Shawn 
comes down to Future Man's album which included Amy Colvin want to bring the world 
horrendous singing and the Grant's help and Dave Matthews together. Please, Bela, take the
Rating 

guest singers. Someone has to singing about communication. band back. Give the public an all­step up and realize that Future . Since he produced the album, it instru mental masterpiece the Man is destroying what this band would ·appear that Fleck is calling next time around. and save the
.......... 

should be all about: making com­most of the shots on Outbound. sissy stuff for Jewel and the plex, technical music that true So. what was he thinking? Indigo girls. 


ALBUM REVIEW 

Sophomore slump plagues Something Like Human 
By JOE LARSON Scene Music Criric 
Most people know Fuel as the band who gave us the melancholy rocker "Shimmer" off the band's 1998 release, Sunburn. The catchy lament of fading love in "Shimmer" was voted by Radio and Records as the most played track of modern rock radio in 1998. and catapulted Sunburn to platinum standing. The band supported its record with a rigorous two years on the road, opening for bands like Aerosmith and Creed. They return now with their sophomore release, Something Like lluman, which is immersed on the same guitar-based sound that brought them so much success on Sunburn. 
Fuel's first single off of Something Like Human, "Hemorrhage (In My Hands)" has already reached the top of Billboard's Modem Rock charts. It's reflective and des­perate lyrics mixed with heavy, layered guitar make for an exceptional combination. Brett. Scallion's searing lead vocal work projects the song into a veri­

The songs seem like an attempt at rock, more than hon­est efforts of expression. Carl Bell's guitar riffs break no new ground, and. in fact, during a majority of the songs, sound like other people's songs. "Prove" steals a riff from Megadeath's "Angry Again." One could mistake the first two measures of "Last Time" for "Everlong" by the Foo Fighters. The heavy, acoustic riff in "Slow" resembles the hit "Touch, Peel. and Stand" by Days of the New. And "Scar," "Prove," and "Down" all seem to sound remark­ably like Alice in Chains. 
Something Like Human's sound seems like an attempt to fit into the Seattle heavy rock scene led by Alice in Chains and Soundgarden circa 1994. Then in order to mesh with today's hard rock trends, they occasionally add choppy, syncopated drum rhythms heard in bands like Korn. 
Though they try to present themselves as a hard rock band, they also lighten up on a few tracks. "Innocent," because it is still based in 'heavy guitar, could work, but is ruined by poor lyrics -it addresses Satan. and then 
apparently a group of angels, as it asks 
table rock anthem. l le goes from a soft. for some guidance in life or something.
Fuel has the ability to 
pensive sound in the verses to a roar­And just as the track seems to be coming
make great music.,. but
ing, demanding scream in the chorus. together at the end of each verse, the The song emanates a despair and anxi­they just haven't put song mentions the impossibility of know­ety that builds into the chorus and, together a complete ing yourself in a world where everyone is accompanied by a layering of orches­constantly being "bought and sold." The
album.
tral strings and thundering drums, hammers home its point powP.rfuUy. It is infectious, tempting the listener to put it on repeat and listen to it over and over again in order to fully absorb the song's emotion and feeling. 
However, problems quickly arises in the rest of Something Like lluman. Though "Hemorrhage (In My !lands)" is an excellent rock song that blends intelligent lyrics with a great guitar riff. the rest of the album seems to !'all short. leaving those turned on by its first single, a little jilted by the rest of the album. Though songs like "Empty Spaces" and "Down" are solid rock songs, they just do not reach the band's potential. exemplified in "Hemorrhage." 

song tries to say something important 
about life. but comes off as just a failed 
attempt to be contemplative. 
The most insulting song on the album is "Bad Day," which might have been better performed by Cyndi Lauper during her "Girls Just Wanna Have run" era. The song tells the story of a guy who is having communication prob­lems with his girlfriend, who had a bad day and just doesn't want to talk about it. The listener is supposed to feel bad for this guy because he does not get to hear his girlfriend complain. The lyrics of this song explain them­selves, "Spilled her coffee, broke a shoelace. smeared the lipstick on her face. Slammed the door and said I'm sorry, I had a bad day again." 
Hard rock bands do not sing songs this corny. 
Something Like Human is an overambi­tious album that just does not accomplish its goal. It tries to rock, but sounds more like a cover band play­ing their favorite songs. Then, it tries to have slow. thoughtful ballads which. come across more as corny pieces of pop music that even Celine Dion wouldn't touch. 
Fuel has the ability to make great music, as shown with '98s "Shimmer" and 
ISomething Like Human-
Fuel 
Epic Records 

Rating 
......,. 
this album's "Hemorrhage (In My Hands)." but they just haven't put together a complete album. 
They have their own formula for good music, but unfor­tunately turn to other formulas that have already been used bv other bands to fill the rest of their albums. Though these arc decent songs, they pack less impact because they've all been heard before. 
So, if you've heard "Hemorrhage," and want to hear more like it. buying Something Like Human will leave you completely unsatisfied. You'd be better off just buying the single and listening to and old Alice In Chains album. 



Tuesday, October 31, 2000 page 11 
ALBUM REVIEW 
David Gray makes an impressive U.S. debut 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Bizkit's third album falls short of past efforts 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Scene Music Critic 
The boys of Limp Bizkit. who thundered into America's living rooms in 1998 with a cover of George Michael's "Faith," are undoubtedly rising stars. Blurring the line between rock and rap, their 1997 album, Three Dollar Bill Y'all, coupled ½ith a massive tour with rock giants Korn, and brought the band instant fame. But it was 1999's Significant Other that truly launched them into the pan­theon of multi-platinum artists and MTV darlings. 
Their new offering, Chocolate Starfish and the Hot Dog Flavored Water. brings frontman Fred Durst, guitarist Wes Borland, DJ Lethal, drummer John Otto, and bassist Sam Rivers together for the band's third album in just three years. Unfortunately, Chocolate Starfish. while ener­getic, brings the group's shortcomings glaringly to the sur­face. Durst's lyrics are, simply put, simplistic and unimagi­native, and Borland's riffs are uninspiring at best, leaving Limp fans longing for the days of"Nook.ie." 
Still, the talent of DJ Lethal and Otto cannot be denied ­even by a lackluster compilation like Chocolate Starfish. Lethal lays down beats that are both original and brilliant. only to have them destroyed by the heavy, plodding guitar work of Borland. 
The band's most popular songs (think "Re-arranged") have featured harmony between the hip hop beats and the 

Photo courtes;· of lnterscope F!ecords Chocolate Starfish and the Hot Dog Flavored Water, one of the most heavily anticipated albums of the year, does not fulfill many fans' expectations. 
guitar, but Chocolate Starfish only occasionally finds this melodious relationship. Otto distinguishes himself with challenging and unique drumming, while not overpower­ing the beat of Lethal. 
In the album booklet, Durst describes the songs on Chocolate Starfish as "Gateways to our souls." If this is the case, the souls of Limp Bizk.it are shallow and self-serving, living for their appearances on MTV. Durst's lyrical abili­ties are weak, and he spends considerable time on the album merely exalting the band's accomplishments. The themes of Chocolate Starfish are muddled in a flurry of formulaic songs. Many songs proceed from slower, more subdued hip-hop beats into overly heavy riffs -even for Limp Bizkit -and then back again. The rock and the rap elements the band attempts to fuse instead seem to oppose one ·another. 
Another problem with the release is the opening intro. Nothing is more annoying on an album than a pointless introduction. Limp allocates minute after minute to informing the listener that "Limp Bizk.it is in the house," helpfully confirming the realization that the album is, in fact, by Limp Bizkit, in case fans had gotten confused. It does not introduce any of the albwn's themes, and is only saved at all by a rich, textured, ringing beat by Lethal. 
Durst's creativity problems bubble up in the first song, "Hot Dog." After mentioning Nine Inch Nails, Durst then proceeds to steal the line "I want to f... you like an ani­mal," from "Closer." Expletives are an integral. almost 
necessary part of many songs, and Li.mp Bizket tracks are certainly no exception. But Durst uses the f­word incessantly, especially on "Hot Dog," and he comes off' look­ing ignorant and incapable of writ­ing deeper lyrics. 
"My Generation," the next track. has entered the Billboard charts simultaneously with "Rollin' (Air Raid Vehicle)" but is the weaker of the two songs. Borland dominates the flow of the track -in a bad way. And while the rest of the song proceeds quickly, hls riffs seem to hang back and conflict with the beat and drumming of Otto. 
½'hen Borland takes a breather in the slower part of the song, "My Generation" is strong. until it again returns to its multi-paced ways. · 
"Full Nelson" is by far the worst song on Chocolate Starfish. and possibly, the worst song ever made by the band. Even Lethal is off his game, producing a beat that is uncharacteristi­cally ordinary. 
In "Rollin' (Air Raid Vehicle)" the band finally finds the smoother middle ground between rap and rock. Though the lines are nothing U2 would respect, the song is undeniably catchy, and is rising on the Billboard charts. Otto produces his finest work of the entire album, driving the entire song and creating a legi\illlate hit. 
Apparently, as "Living it Up" will attest, Ben Stiller is Durst's "favorite mother 
f-----." That about sums up the highlights of this song, which features descriptions of the band's life of excess in the midst of chaotic guitar play. 
Limp is too talented not to have a few excellent tracks on an album, and Durst breaks out of his f-word shell to pro­duce a couple truly good lines of lyrics. For Chocolate Starfish, these tracks come at the end of the album. 
"Boiler" is arguably the best song on the albwn. A sub­dued Borland meshes beautifully with Otto and Lethal, creating a track with understated passion and intensity. 
"Hold On" is simply surreal. Here, the band shows that it is more than just heavy guitars thrown together with a DJ. Durst has real feeling in his vocals, and this time, song truly does act a..:; a "gateway" to the band's soul. 
Rap fans ½ill love the fmal track, "Rollin' (Urban Assault Vehicle)." as the band reprises the earlier song on the album by featuring Redman. Method Man and OMX, with an unique and flowing beat that would make Dr. Dre jeal­ous. The song is pure energy. 
Still, the final three tracks cannot fix what represents only an average effort by a band that music fans are increasingly looking to for innovation. 

Limp Bizkit 
lnterscope Records 

By LISA BRUNO 
Scene Music Critic 
The musical journey thus far for the U.K.'s David Gray has been anything but smooth. Since Gray's first release in 1992. he has had a variety of setbacks with labels in his homeland. Therefore. the listening public should consider itself lucky that he kept on the path, and finally released his fourth album, White Ladder, on his own label. 
Working off his own label offered him the opportunity to 
White Ladder 

David Gray 
IHT Records 
Rating 

........ 
not only create an album the way he wanted, but also to pro­mote it in his own way. The result has been nothing but posi­tive as he has developed a hefty following in the U.K. and a local stamp of approval from Dave Matthews. In fact, vVhite Ladder received such approval that it was released here in the U.S. as the first release on Matthews' own label, ATO. 
Wilh White Ladder, Gray smoothly sails through the 10 tracks with confidence. proving he can navigate marvelously on his own, without a heavy-handed record label corraling his talent. 

White Ladder's first release, "Babylon," reveals Gray's amaz­ing voice, a voice that consistent­ly changes throughout tho album. He has a voice that is raw and varied, and that can go from being graveley to as smooth and soothing as honey. Coupled with his voice are the wonderful­ly revealing lyrics of "Babylon" that arc instantly intoxicating, " If you want it/ come and get i1/ for crying out loud/ the love that I was giving you was never in doubt/ let go your heart/ let go your head/ and feel it now." 
Gray's style can be described 
as having a decidedly folk 
underpinning with an electroni­
ca twist. It's almost as if folk 
music meets the likes of 
Everything But the Girl. 
White Ladder was recorded in 
Gray's London home. with the 
windows open -open to a 
world musical freedom. This is 
obvious as each track offers 
something different musically. 
and lyrically. speaks to living. 
This is the kind of disc that can 
be thrown into the player with­
out· any need to skip through a 
song. Each track offers a sooth­ing melodic back­drop against the harsh realities of love and lifo. 
"This Year's Love" is undoubt­edly one of the most revealing songs on the disc and was the cata­lyst for his great following in Ireland. Gray weaves a tale of love familiar to any listener, "This year's love had better las1/ heaven knows it's high time/ I've been waiting on my own too long/ and when you hold me like you do, it feels so right." 
Once again it is a With the support of Dave Matthews, David musical relief to 
Gray's latest album White Ladder has been 

purchase an 
exploding across America.

album that doesn't disappoint, and is an original creation that hasn't Ladder that he has plenty to been shaped to fit into some offer, and that he himself is best record label's image or mold. suited to dictate how it is 
Gray proves with White offered. 


page 12 Tuesday, October 31, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish look to close season with win 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's soc­
cer team looks to close out its 
season on a high note as it 
travels to Indianapolis tonight 
to take on IUPUL 
The Jaguars, coming in with 
a record of 8-8-1, look to end 
their regular season with a vic­
tory before heading to 
Macomb. Ill.. for this week­
end's Mid-Continental confer­
ence tournament. 
Senior forward Theis Hermann, who hails from Bliedersdorf. Germany. leads IUPUI. Hermann has tallied 14 goals and three assists to total 31 points this season. Also starring for the Jaguars is junior goalkeeper Armando Femia, who attended Adams High School in South Bend. In another local connection for the Irish. Jaguar midfielder Justin Hines attended South Bend's Clay High School. 
"They've got a couple of South Bend kids. so they're always highly motivated to beat us," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Apple of the competition. "They've come here two years in a row and we've beaten them just barely 1-0." 
Apple also notices similari­ties between the two teams with similar records that have found success as of late. 
"They're right around .500. They just qualified for their conference tournament, so they're riding high," said Apple. "They just beat Oral Roberts over the weekend. 2-0. They've had a good stretch here over the end of the season where they've won some games." 
The Irish are coming off of a 2-0 victory against Mountaineers Friday night in their final home game, a game in which the Irish controlled the ball the entire game, out­shooting the Mountaineers 19­5. 


"The West Virginia game was probably one of our best per­formances of the year," said Apple. "West Virginia never had a chance all game. We totally dominated. I feel like we're playing our best soccer of the year." 
In the West Virginia game, Apple was able to play 19 of 
his 26 players, including jug­gling his lineup to start all six seniors in their final career home game. Tonight the lineup will likely be similar, with per­haps a few of the seniors com­ing off the bench. 
"I'd like to see another game like West Virginia where we can get 19 to 20 guys into the game if all goes well," said Apple. 
The Irish and Jaguars kick off tonight at 7:30 p.m. 
VOLLEYBALL 
Belles earn victory at Albion Invite 
By ALICIA ORTIZ Sports Writer 
The volleyball Belles played hard last weekend and tri­umphed at the Albion College Invitational. 
After a rough season of close wins and disappointing losses, the Belles are bringing their season to a close with a few wins under their belt. 
The Albion 
Dineen said, "but we beat them in the end when it counted. We played really well and we stepped up as a team." 
As a team, the Belles aver­aged 20 digs per game for the day and offensively had almost 12 kills per game (11.75). 
"This was a great way to finish out our regular season and a great way to go in to 
the MIAA 
College quad tourna­
"Albion was not playing
ended up m c n t . " 
being a well. We toughed it out Schrocder­three-team and won." Biek said. tournament Junior out­including side defen­
Angela Meyers 
K e n y o n sive hitter College, outside defensive hitter A n g i c 
Saint Mary's College and Albion College. 
The Belles avenged their previous loss against Albion and won in five games, 15-10, 9-15, 15-8, 6-15, 15-10. 
"Albion was not playing well," junior outside defen­sive hitter Angela Meyers said. " We toughed it out and won." 
The Kenyon game ended in three close games, as the Belles won with scores of 16­14, 15-11, and 15-6. 
"Kenyon had a pretty good team, but we just shut them down defensively," coach Julie Schroeder-Bick said. "This was the best team defense that we have played so far this year." 
Even without any prior con­tests against Kenyon, the Belles felt they were well pre­pared going into the match. 
"Kenyon was unfamiliar to us," junior setter Jamie 
Meyers  led  
the  team  
with 30 kills,  
18 service  points, and 52  
digs.  

Freshman setter/outside hitter Leigh Ann Matesich fol­lowed with 18 service points, 26 digs, and 78 assists. Hight side hitter Denise Langlois had 24 service points and 20 digs, while middle hitter Jolie LeBeau added to the effort with 21 kills and 6.5 blocks. 
Dineen ended the day with 15 kills, 13 points, and 22 digs 
"MC Christopher came through for us," Meyers said. "She pulled through at key times." Christopher had 20 kills, 13 points, five service aces and 20 digs. 
The Belles performed well without their senior defensive specialist Victoria Butcko, who missed the day's games for graduate school exams. 
Saint Mary's will play at Calvin on Wednesday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND TREK BIKE in parking lot one week ago CALL MATT 4-4894. 
LOST on campus at Stanford game 1 1/2 inch thick gold bracelet REWARD call Carol at 312-946· 1800 
TICKETS 
Need 4 BC Tix. Please Call 274­0829 
Need Rutgers Tickets. Please call Kerry at 634-344.2. Thanks! 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280 
SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 
VICTORY TKTS BUY'SELL 'TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 www.11ictorytickets.com 
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A M. -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
NEED 4 BC TIX TOGETHER. CAN PAY ONLY $200. CALL 243-1621. 
I need two tickets for the Boston College game.Travis 319·241-1082. 
PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS. BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219 289-8048. 
Need two tix for BC game. Call Colleen 4·1146. 
Need 1 Ticket For ND v BC 247-0965 
I NEED TWO BC TICKETS! MY PARENTS ARE COMING! WILL PAY! 284-4334! WE'LL TALKI 
NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE G.A.'S. PLEAES CALL MANYARD AT 1· 800-638-6963, X 6093. CALL WILL BE RETURNED ASAP. 
FOR RENT 
All SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232­2595 That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for tootball/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487 

HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-br $1 ODO/month 2) 4-br $1100/month 3)3•br $650/month. We'll make almost any changes to the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776. 
Students' Alum-owned 2stry 5·6 bdrm, 2 bath New: carpet, appli• ances, washer-dryer, furnace-roof, & Security. Huge yard 1 blk N. of Club 23. $1375 inc. 240-0322. 
Now Available: Great 2 BR Apt in student area 711 E. Washington fenced deck, big basement 1 1 /2 bath $550 + util. New appliances. 289-0262/288-3410. 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND. GREAT AREA. 277-3097. 
2520 sq. ft. home for sale or lease in Knollwood. $174k. 277-7992 
WANTED 
Need childcare in our Granger home, Tues. and Thurs Must have transportation Call 271-1935. 
NANNY WANTED: 25-35 hrs/week. Contact Krista @ 425-793-1208 or email KROBKE@CERWER.COM. 
International publication based in Granger has opening for assistant editor. Writing and grammar skills necessary. Knowledge of motor• sports a bonus. call 277-0033. 
Locally based racing publication in need of web design to help to improve and maintain present sites. Strong graphic design ability a must For more into, call 277--0033. 
WANTED FORMER ISLI PARTICI· PANTS TO FACILITATE UPCOM· ING CONFERENCE ON 11/18/00. "RUDY'" Will BE THE GUEST SPEAKER. JIM HART AT 277-1599 OR DR.LOMBARDO AT THE CCE. 
Need Jr. High boys basketball coach. Responsible, dependable student or grad to coach 7-Bth grade basketball team, Nov. 13-Feb 23; for south side elementary school, Must be available for prac­tices Mon-Thurs from 2:20·3: 15. 
Officials Needed for Men and Women Basketball. Great opportu­nity to earn great money. Call Peter Shoop or Jeff Walker @ 631-6100 or stop by the office in Rolfs today. You can also e-mail us at rec• sport@nd.edu. 
COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 300_.000 + private sector scholar­ships available for undergraduate and graduate students at accredit­ed colleges in the Usa regardless of their GPA, finances, age or citizen­ship. Write or call for FREE infor­mation and application Scholarship Database Service 
P.O. Box 432 Notre Dame, IN 46556·0432 Barnyard8961 @hot­maif.com 1-800-936-3706 
FOR SALE 
SURVIVE SPRING BREAK 20011 ALL THE HOTTEST DESTINA· TIONS/HOTELSI CAMPUS SALES REPRESENTATIVES AND STU• DENT ORGANIZATIONS! inter­campus.com 1-800-327 ·6013 
#1 Spring Break 2001 -Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, Florida & S.Padre Reliable TWA flights Best Prices. Earn $$$ or FREE trips 1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentexpress.com 
Spring Break 2001 Book group of 15 and GO FREEi Book before Nov. 3 for FREE Meals! sunspfashtours.com or 1 • 800-426·7710 
Black 94 Mitsubishi Galan! Sunroof 95k $1950 obo Call (219) 634-0849 
PERSONALS 
FAX IT FASTI Sending & Receiving At THE COPY SHOP La Fortune Student Center Our Fax # (219) 631·FAX FAX IT FAST!!! 
WORK THE POLLS ELECTION DAY, NOV7 6AM-6PM PAY $75 YOU MUST BE 18YRS OLD, A RESIDENT OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY AND A REGISTERED VOTER. CALL JOHN COURT AT 235·9530 
Are my papers processed yet? Because my midwest membership has definitely expired. When you move up to national booty call sta. tus, do you get a membership card? A frequent traveler's card? Free gas? There must be membership benefits. 
Sophomore student managers, you rock. -Kronk 
Kerry, you rock too since you're doing classifieds, 
Nell -lovin' the 3000 swim I vote Saturday for round two. Assuming you're in state. Let's go 4000 next time .. after all, it's a weekend. We're up to the challenge. 


Tuesday, October 31, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
CLUB SPORTS 
Rowers earn silvers at regatta 
Special to The Observer 
The men's rowing club enjoyed its third consecutive outstanding shov,ring this past weekend. 
After posting its best finish in club history at both the Head of the Rock and Head of the Charles Regattas, the club returned home to host the Head of the Elk in Elkhart. Silver medal finL<ihes by both the Varsity Open 4 and 
UNIVERSlTY OF NOTRE DAME 
1\TF.H" \TIO'\ \L STliDY PROGR\;\IS 

FRE1\:1 ANTLE~ A USTRA LIA 
~ "The Land Down l'ndcr.. 
l;\,'.fOR:\IATLO~ i\.lEETJ"SG \\]th 
.Jullict \la~·in_ja. Assi~tant Din~c101· Fr.\\ ilson \liscamhlc. C.S.C. 
}\'e_ch1esdro: ~o_vember 1. 20_(10 1J)2 DeBactolo -t:-t5-5:-l5 P.:\l. 
\PPl.lCYIIO:\ l)F. \DU:\E: DF.CDIBER !. 2000 · .\pplicatious a,ailahlc www/nd.cclu/-intlstu<I 
Novice 8 C boat.:; highlighted an overall team performance that placed the Irish second overall in mens' competition. 
In the first event of the day, the Novice 8 A captured fourth behind a surprising Grand Valley squad. in a virtual tie with Michigan State and perennial power Purdue. The Novice 8 B squad took fifth, narrowly trail­ing Purdue and Michigan, while the Novice D and E boats fin­ished sixth and seventh respec­tively in their events. 

After racing three miles, the Varsity Open 4's second place showing among 23 boats was only three seconds behind Michigan. In lightweight 4 rac­ing, the Irish finished a very respectable. seventh, while the final race of the day found the Open 8 A finishing behind Michigan, Purdue. and Michigan State in a field of 26. The Irish will return to the water in the spring, as the Head of the Elk traditionally ends the fall cam­
paign. 
Equestrian 
Eight Notre Dame and Saint Mary's equestrians garnered enough points at the Butler U. / IUPUI Horse Show this weekend to finish second and carry Reserve High Poinl honors. Purdue topped the eight school field. Mary Barter placed thlrd in novice fences and second in novice flats. Others capturing second place finishes were J,yndsay Lyden in open flats and Salvador Hernandez in walk, trot. 
Also contributing to the team score were Laura Anderson and Audra Valatis, third and fifth in novice flat, respectively, and Jennifer Pojunas, fifth in both intermediate fences and interme­diate flats. Donna Gauvin's fifth in novice nats and Elise Boneau's third in advanced walk, trot, can­ter completed the team scoring. 
The club will compete in two weeks at St. Mary's of the Woods, in a tri-meet with Ball 
1 State. 
the tournament were Talarico, Casev Smith. Matt Scott, and

Tennis 
Andiew Laflin 19th-seeded continued from page 20 Talarico was defeated in the 
third round, while 11th-seeded competition, along with a first­Smith, who was hampered by an round bye. He up-ended illness, bowed out in the second Northern Illinois' Raymond van round. Both Laflin and Scott Wasbeek 6-3. 7-5 in the second were defeated in the first round. round and defeated Perhaps the biggest disap­Northwestern's Jamie Sahara 6-pointment of the weekend came 1, 6-4,in the third round, before when the top-seeded doubles falling to Michigan's Henry pairing of Taborga and Talarico Beam in the round of 16 in a were ousted in the second round tight three-set match by the at the hands of Minnesota's score of 7-6, 4-6, 6-4. Jonas Svensson and Tyson Parry 
"Javier played extremely well 9-8 (10-8). into the round of 16." Bayliss "In doubles against Minnesota noted. "His match there was a with Aaron and Javier, we just simple case of which ever player let them hang around too long," got to the net first generally had Bayliss said. "When a match is the best chance to win the point. only a pro-set and all of a sud­It's a style that Javier ls not as den you get into a tiebreaker 
comfortable  anything can hap­ 
with. Indoors, he does need to  "I was disappointed  pen and it did. We had numerous  
look for oppor­ that we didn't do better  break  point  
tunities to be more aggres­sive, and I think  at the regionals but it's the first sort ofsetback  opportunities, we didn't make enough returns  
he  learned  we've had allfall."  and keep enough  
something  in  balls in play on  
that match, and J think he is still  Bob Bayliss  the return games, and we weren't  
an outstanding  Irish head coach  particularly  

player and is going to have a great year." 
Unseeded Haddock-Morales rallied for a 5-7. 6-2, 6-2 win over Western Michigan's Ryan Maarschalk in the first round of play to earn a berth in the round of 16 and breezed past Butler's Peter Voelz 6-3, 6-0 in the sec­ond round to set up a third round match-up with Louisville's 12th-seeded Turtko Kujundzic. Kujundzic was forced to retire with Haddock-Morales leading the match 6-0, 1-0. Haddock­Morales succumbed to defeat 6­1, 6-3 when Wisconsin's fourth­seeded Danny Westerman's big style of play proved to be too much for him to handle. 
"[Haddock-Morales] had a good tournament, and he is going to be a great player here," Bayliss said. "He got a little over­whelmed by Danny Westerman from California, who is simply at this point too big and strong for Luis. Westerman played well enough throughout the whole match, and never really let Luis back in it -he didn't get many opportunities." 
Other Irish representatives that fell in the singles portion of 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program 2001-2002 
1NSTITUT o'ETUDES POLITIQUES (SCIENCES Po) 
PARIS,-FRANCE 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH 

PROF. PASCAL DELISLE, SCIENCES PO AND GEORGETOWN UNJVERSl1Y 
THURSDAY,NOVEMBER2,2000 209 DEBARTOLO 
4:45 PM 
pressed on our 
service games. I 
think we needed to play with more of a sense of urgency than I saw." 
The remaining two Irish dou­bles teams also bowed out early in the tournament. Haddock­Morales and Smith lost 8-3 to a pairing from Purdue in the sec­ond round, while Brian Farrell and Ashok Raju dropped a close match to a team from DePaul in the first round by the score of 9­8 (7-2). 
With the feeling of frustration lingering after each Irish player left the court in defeat, the team only became more hunger to prove they will easily recover from their disappointing perfor­mance when they resume action in the spring. 
"It's the first step back, but generally in the course of a sea­son you're going to have set­backs," Bayliss said. "If you can take one step back and two steps forward then you are still on the same plane for which you are striving. Hopefully this is some­thing that will burn in every­one's memory, and maybe we'll come back clicking on all eight cylinders in January." 

Tuesday, October 31, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 14 
fumble, stopping the momen­

VOLLEYBALL 
tum of the Green Wave. 
Knott 
Both teams turned the ball over again towards the end of
continued from page 20 

Irish earn pair of Big East wins 
the second quarter.leaving the 
team completely took control. 
"Our defense played real well. and our offense wore them down," said Zant, who added that the outcome of the game could've gone either way. 
"Our mistakes hurt us, but we fought to the end. I can't compla!n·, It was tight to the end. sard Zant. 
Next up for Knott is Sorin I!all in a rematch of last year's interhall championship game. "We have a lot of work to do," said Pawloski. "but we will improve on offense." 
"Our mistakes hurt us,
Knott fig­deep in ures to con­but we fought to the end. Fisher terri­tinue to rely tory when a
I can't complain. It was 
fourth down that will tight to the end." snap for the Green Wave 
on a defense 
attempt to went overstretch its 
Brian Zant 
shutout the punter's
Zahm captain
streak to six head. From 
games. 
Zahm Ilall, meanwhile, will lose some key leaders to gradu­ation. including, Kirt l lartman, Greg Smith and captains Joe Sainz and Bill Hennessey. However, much of this year's nucleus will be returning for another run at the title next year. 
"We'll fill some slots, learn from our mistakes and be bet­ter next year," said Zant. 
Sorin 19, Asher 0 
Fans on the sidelines of the Sorin Otters victory against the Fisher Green Wave would swear they were watching two different football games. 
The first half went back and forth, with neither team able to put the ball in the end zone, missing golden opportunities in the first quarter. 
Sorin quarterback Pete Belden completed a 50-yard bomb to Antione Tobias, only to have it called back due to offen­sive pass-interforence, forcing the Otters to punt. 
Fisher looked good on the subsequent drive, moving the ball up to the Sorin 20-yard line through a series of short runs. 
But as the second quarter began. Trevor Morris and the Sorin defense caused a Fisher game scoreless headed into the second half. 
The Otters looks like a new lcum in the second half, dcter­m i ncd to prove that they bnlonged among the elite teams in the men's league. 
"At halftime, I just wanted the guys to re-collect them­selves and stay strung," said Sorin coach Fred Faber. "We knew our defense had to be strong in the second half." 
After punting on their first possession of the second half, 
Sorin got the 
ball back 
there, Belden 
found Sorin captain Mike Crowe in the end zone for the quick touchdown pass. The extra point attempt was blocked. 
Sorin took over again near mid-field after another poor punt-snap. Belden completed a 20-yard pass to Tobias. and then found Crowe once again for his second touchdown of the game. 
"These were my first two touchdowns ever, in playing four years of interhall," said Crowe. "I was just in the right place at the right time." 
Green Wave quarterback Byron Levkulich tried to get things moving in the fourth quarter, but was intercepted by Brent Smith on Fisher's first drive of the quarter. Following two big defensive penalties, Sorin running back Dave Kanesek punched the ball in for the third Otter touchdown of the half. 
The Otters converted the extra point this time. making the score 19-0. 
The Sorin defense allowed less than 10 yards of total offense by Fisher in the second half. 
The Otters advance to play Knott next Sunday in the semi­
finals. 


. Notre Dame nets key victories over St. John's and Connecticut 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Writer 
Confidence keeps the wins coming for the Irish volleyball team, which continued to plow through the 2000 Big East sea­son undefeated this weekend. Completing victories over Big East foes St. John's and Connecticut, the Irish improved to 8-0 in the league. 
''Against St. John's we came out and played with confidence," said senior co-captain Christi Gorton. "The key word for the weekend was confidence." 
The Irish. now 18-5 overall, shut down St. John's in three 
games Saturday  (15-0, 15-9,  
15-10).  
Senior  Christi  Girton  and  

junior Marcie Bomhack com­bined for 33 kills while senior Denise Boylan added eight digs, three kills, two aces and two blocks. Junior Malinda Goralski racked up seven blocks and eight kills to aid Notre Dame. St. John's fell to 4-3 in confer­ence play with its sixth loss in history to the Irish. Notre Dame was able to edge over Connecticut in a five-game match Sunday (15-11, 11-15, 15-5, 13-15, 16-14). 
"It was good to be in a pres­sure situation and actually win this time," said Gorton. "UConn played a lot better than we expected." 
Girton racked up a career­high 31 kills while Bomhack totaled 19 kills, 13 digs and five blocks. Junior Kristv Krcher had 21 kills and nir1e digs and Goralski chipped in with 13 kills. Boylan put in a strong offensive performance for the Irish with 69 assists while sophomore Janie Alderete provided some Irish defense with a carHer-high 18 digs. 
"We still had little lapses against Connecticut. it could have easily gone either way," Gorton said. "We had opportuni­ties to win the l'ourth game but we didn't. We still need to work on finishing games." 
The Huskies fell to 13-1 O over­all and 4-3 in Big East play with their sixth loss to the Irish, hav­ing just one win in a 1998 upset. 
The Irish will return to home action this weekend as they host Boston College, North Carolina and Providence with North Carolina being the only non­conference match. 

CLI1vf13 TT-f£ PYRAMID or 71-iE SUN 
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT 
Notre Dame's International Study Program IN 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, November 1, 2000 
4:45 PM 207 DeBartolo 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: Nov. 7, 2000 for Spring 2001 Dec. 1, 2000 for F'2001, AV 2001-2002 


Grand Prize 
(One) $200 Gift Certificate 
'9 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 


GrangerStation Office Hours 
Near Martin's Monday -Friday 12980 State Road 23 10:00 a.m. -6:30 p.m. Suite F Saturday 
Granger, IN 46530 9:00 a.m. -2:00 p.m. 219/239-9351 ATMs 800/522-6611 24-Hours a Day, 7-Days a Week 
No purct.ise necessary. Contest begins November 3, and ends December 15, 2000. One entry per person. Must be 18 years old or older to partldpate. The drawing will be held at noon (12:00 p.m.) on December 15, 2000. Need not be present to win, Employees of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union and their Immediate famny members are not eligible to win. This promotion Is only being offered at the Notre Dame federal Credit Umon Granger Station location. Notre Dame federal Credit Union Is Independent of the University. 
Teusday, October 31, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Faculty Opportunities 

tunities where students can integrate their academic experience of science with their commitment to social concerns." 
Dennis Jacobs Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry 
Dear Faculty, 
I am delighted to invite you to get involved with the Center, either as a participant in one of the opportunities we offer faculty or as a resource to us. Faculty are essen­tial to the work of the Center. 
Co 
cerMsny of our student programs benefit from the expertise and involvement of faculty as a resource to the Center. For example, faculty serve as facilitators for "The Church and Social Action" (Urban Plunge) by opening their homes for a one-evening gathering in January to provide students with an occasion to further reflection and analysis of their city experience. Some provide lectures for prepa­ratory sessions of the experiential learning courses the Center coordinates. Others become advisors to the service and social action groups. 
The column on the left lists three structured opportunities for you to participate this fall; you can call or e-mail me to reserve a place. If you'd like instead to talk more infor­mally about ways of incorporating social concerns into your teaching, research and advising, please contact me. 
There are many ways to get involved. I hope you will choose one or more. I look forward to working with you. 
Peace, 
~~w~ 
Kathleen Maas Weigert, Ph.D. Associate Director, Academic Affairs and Research (631-5319 or Kath1een.M.Weigert.2@nd.edu) 
The Mission of the Center for Socia 
Rooted in the Gospel and Catholic social tradition, the Center for Social Concerns of the University of Notre Dame creates formative educational and service experi­ences in collaboration with diverse partners, calling us all to action for a more just and humane world. 
. .  .  
.  :-ti".  ,...  
.··.  .,·  ,"  '. --~~)..,.·~.t. ,,e'·tp  
The 2000-2001 course development grant recipients: Todd David Whitmore (left) and Ming Fan with Kathleen Maas Weigert. (Not pictured: Judith Fox.) 


r------------------------------------------~--~ 
Tuesday, October 3 I, 2000 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
Fox 
continued from page 20 
that a team that won't be beat can't be beat." 
No one can argue with that. After Nebraska, a game peo­ple gave them about as much of a chance of winning as peo­ple thinking the XFL was cre­ated to promote football, they lost a captain on defense and their starting quarterback. 
Since then, they've gone 5-1, are now bowl eligible, and still have the realistic goal of playing in a BCS bowl. 
Ilowever, heart and charac­ter don't do it alone. 
A team has to have a lot of talent to win, but Notre Dame isn't lacking there, either. They've got Tony Driver. They've got Joey Getherall. Add David Givens and Anthony Weaver. Anthony Denman. Mike Gandy and Jim Jones are two offensive line­man you don't hear much about because of their posi­tion -but many think both will be playing in the NFL next year. 
So what's been going on the last couple weeks in the fourth quarter? West Virginia was one block in the back away from pulling within a touchdown of the Irish after trailing by four touchdowns going into the quarter. 
Air Force scored 18 and very nearly 21 after starting the quarter down 28-10. 

In fact, if you look at the four October games, where the Irish are undefeated, they've been outscored 53-14 in the fourth quarter. 
On the other hand, they still outscored those four teams by a total of 54 points, although 31 of those came against a Navy team that's still looking for its first win after getting beat up by Toledo this week­end. 
"Their defense was tired at the end," Air Force wide receiver Ryan Fleming said. "If we played another quarter and a half, we would have really shoved it down their throats." 
Notre Dame wide receiver Joey Getherall had a different perspective. 
"The defense knew we were going to win so I think that's why they had special energy on that last kick to get the block," he said 
For someone not directly involved, it's hard to say why it seems like the Irish have been having problems ending games. 
There could be some fatigue, like Fleming said. Teams could just be really stepping it up in the fourth quarter. 
Or maybe the Irish know exactly how much it's going to take to win, get that out early, and just happened to cut it a little too close on Saturday. 
The first two speculations are reasonable, but I don't think any team can or wants . 

THE 28th ANNUAL 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Madrigal Dinners 
Fri. & Sat., Dec. 1 & 2 at 7 pm Sun., Dec. 3 at 2 & 7 pm Regina North Lounge 
Madrigal singers from the Saint Mary's College choirs, along with period instruments,jugglers, ajester and a Master of the House entertain 200 patrons perperformanceduring 
for tickets call: 219/284-4625 
NDIODY:,DDES·: IIEJKS :BETTER! 
~.ran a-1s 1001 
South Padre TX 
ona Beach 
( · ··· Destin FL 
( Hilton·Head SC) 
r;-j~;]]~'fi1Ea.JI Steamboat CO 

~Breckenrid e CO 
www.sunchase.com 
l•SOO•SUNCHASE 
-f!t­


to play cutting it that close. 
When Bob Davie says "We can get better," he's not talk­ing about emotion or heart or play-making ability. 
He is talking about using those skills to let Notre Dame control the game from start to finish, not for two or three quarters. 
Given this team's talent, that improvement is very realistic. Given its goals, that improvement is necessary. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
pSeries Standings 
points 
, Oklahoma 1:ifr: 2.48 ' Virginia Tech. 7.15 ·.... ·F10.r1da .state 7.93 Nebraska ·y 10.18 Miamt . i'j'" ·. 
10.37 Florida" 11.35 Qr,oon 16.67 Wasfllnglon 17.31 TCU 24.01 Purdue 35.63 OregorlSl11te 28.19 Michigan 30.58 Clemson 31.11 NOTREDAMJ= 32.03 Mlas~lppl State 35.23 


to finish your degree at BETHEL COLLEGE 
• Attend accelerated classes 
• 
Advance your career 

• 
Realize your dreams 


• Focus on values 
Call Today! 
219-257-3350 or 800-422-4251 aduttprograms@bethel-ln.edu 
Scared because you don't have anything to do for Halloween? 


Who ya gonna call? 
GH&STBUSTERS 
When: Tues., October 31 at 8:00pm Where: DeBartolo I 02 How Much: FREE!!! 
Free Goodie Bags for the movie while supplies last 
Sponsored by Student Activities Office 
Now's the time ... 
Tuesday, October 31. 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
flying Dutch top Belles in sudden death overtime,4-3 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Sports Writer 
The Belles fought through reg­ulation to deadlock in a 3-3 lie, but were unable to top the Flying Dutch as Hope defeated Saint Mary's 4-3 in sudden death overtime, Saturday. Hope scored the game-winner five minutes into t.he overtime period. 
"We played with the same intensity as the game against Albion," freshman Wendy Irvin said. "But we let down a little in the second half." 
After Hope's Becky Creagh opened the scoring just five min­utes into the game on the Dutchmen's first shot on goal, Irvin answered the challenge with two goals of her own. putting the Belles up 2-1. 
"They were both crosses and I was just there," Irvin said about her goals. "On the second one the ball just hit my chest and fell right at my feet so I walked it right into the net." 
With those two goals against Hope, Irvin has now tied fresh­man Stephanie Artnak with five goals to lead the team in scoring. 
Artnak assisted on Irvin's first 
goal and scored Saint Mary's 
third to tie the game again with 
six minutes to go in the second 
half. 
"Shawna [Jianonni] shot and 
the ball ricocheted off a Hope 
player," Artnak said. "Then I hit 
it in from right outside the 18." 
Another freshman, Kristen 
Greenwood, assisted on Irvin's second goal, crossing it. from I.he right side of the field, allowing Irvin to run it in. 
Belles head coach Jason Milligan experimented with his lineup, as he has in the last few games, moving freshman Katie Green and lone senior Laura Paulen in at defense. 
"Laura played an outstanding defensive game," Artnak said. "LIIaving her at defense! has made all the difference. Laura shut their wings down. She had a great game." 
Green has also assisted in bot­tling up the offensive corps of the more formidable MIM teams. 
"Putting Katie Green back there on defense vvas a great move by [Milligan]," Irvin said. 
Coming out of halftime tied 2­2, llope scored early in the sec­ond to take a :~-2 lead. The Bolles battled back however to knot the game at 3 again. 
"We were down but we never 
gave up," Artnak said. "We were 
alwavs on their side of the field. 
We played so well." 
The Belles outshot the 
Dutchmen 19-14. Irvin and 
Artnak led with four shots each. 
Katy Robinson had three shots, 
while her fellow co-captain 
Jessica Klink made two. 
"We definitely dominated the 
first half of the game," Irvin said. 
"The second half was more even 
and went back and forth con­
stantly. I feel like we played a 
better first half and let down in 
the second." 

Still, pulling a tie in regulation against a team that had shut them out 3-0 earlier in the sea­son was certainly an achieve­ment the Belles think they should be proud of. 
"We were happy with the way we played but we wished that we could have won our last game," Irvin said. "J don't think that anybody didn't give it their all." 
Emilie Dirkse, Amy Dobb and Candice Koos all scored for the Dutchmen in regulation, while Kimiko Sugimoto got past Belles goalie Tia Kapphahn to lake the win for Hope. Kapphahn finished with 10 saves and Hope netmin­der Laura Hinkle made five for the Dutchmen. 
Despite ending the season with a loss, the Belles were satisfied with the team's overall perfor­mance this season. 
"We wanted to win this last 
game," Irvin said. "We came out 
more aggressive this time than 
last time. Towards the end of the 
season we were working as a 
team and talking more on the 
field. That came out to our 
advantage this time around." 
Saturday's game, as well as a 
previous game against 2000 
MIAA champion Albion, showed 
the Belles what they can look 
forward to from their team next 
season. 
"We're basically going to have 
the same team next year," Irvin 
said. "If we pick up where we 
left off after this game we'll have 
an awesome season next year." 


Topping Pizza 
271_0JOO 
every tuesday 

Manager's Special: Free can of Coke with purchase Under New Management 
Call today and 11 am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11 am-3am fri-sat 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 31, 2000 
MEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 

Fallon blocks kick as Keenan defeats Alumni, I0-7 
By JAMES VERALDI and 
TODD NIETO 
Spom Writers 
Glenn Earl wasn't the only football player who had a big blocked kick this weekend. 
Kevin Fallon came through with the game winning block kick in overtime as Keenan edged Alumni 10-7 in the first round of the interhall playoffs Sunday. 
"We got a good push from our defensive line," said Keenan quarterback Billy Ellsworth. "Kevin was then able to get a hand on it." 
After Keenan went ahead with a 25-yard field goal in its overtime possession. Alumni stood just lO yards away from 
• a second round match-up with rival Dillon. After quarterback Chris Cottingham was tripped up on third down. the Dawgs were left with fourth down from the 12-yard line. "We were pretty sure they were going to fake the kick or come out and play offense," said Keenan captain Herb Giorgio. But the Dawgs didn't. Instead, Brandon Nunnink attempted a 29-yard kick to send it into double overtime when Fallon came through with the block to vault the Knights into the second round. The game was played tight throughout, with Alumni dic­tating the action in the first half and Keenan in the sec­ond. 
Alumni took an early 7-0 lead on a 27-yard strike from CoLtingham to tailback Alex Roodhouse. 

The touchdown was set up by the defense, which stuffed Keenan inside its own 5-yard line, setting up the offense with great field position. 
From that point on though, the Keenan defense held its ground. 
Linebacker Brian Kunitzer played an outstanding game as the Knight's defense com­pletely shut down Alumni throughout the second half and into overtime. 
"We made the necessary adjustments at the half," said Giorgio. "Our defense stepped it up." 
The Dawg's defense was characterized by constant pressure on the Knight's quarterback. Defensive line­man Nick Linstroth and line­backer Bailey Siegfried led the ongoing pass rush, which dis­rupted the Keenan offense all 
day. · 

Keenan's lone regulation score came in the third quar• tcr after a big punt return set up good field position. Ellsworth connected on a 21· yard strike to Steve Burns tying the game at seven a piece and sending it into over­time. 
"The game could have gone either way, but they had the momentum at the end," said Alumni lineman Nick Linstroth. "We had the momentum in the beginning, and then they took it over. That's what allowed them to win the game in overtime." 
DIiion 28, Stanford 6 

On Sunday afternoon at 
Stepan Fields, the Dillon Rig Red crushed the the Stanford Griffins in the first round of the playoffs. 
Dillon entered the playoff picture in first place overall with a 4-0 record. but it was still wary of a possible upset. 
In the second quarter. quar­terback Tayt Odom scrambled for a five-yard touchdown, but the Stanford defense prevent­ed Dillon from converting on the ensuing 2-point conver­sion. 
The Griffins staged a come­back before the end of the second quarter when wide receiver Corey Hartmann caught a touchdown pass from I the Stanford quarterback. 
Stanford attempted a 2­point conversion, but failed to put it into the endzone. 
By the end of the first half, the game remained close as Dillon led, 12-6. At the begin­ning of the second half, Stanford threatened again; however, the Griffins were halted on the 4-yard line. 
Dillon, however, came alive in the fourth quarter, begin­ning with senior Joe Parker running through the Griffin defense for a touchdown. 
Later in the fourth quarter, senior cornerback Matt Walsh intercepted a pass and ran it back for a touchdown. 
With time running out, the Griffins attempted to turn the game around with a few strong offensive drives. 
As the team marched down the field, another poorly thrown pass found the hands of Walsh. 
Time soon expired and the Bulldogs were victorious. 
S-tuaen-t Issue 
0 z 
Firs-....-.illiiliiillli.... st: u --n -to purchase a booklet will receive a Free ''MOB'' -t-shirt. 
I 

GET YOUR IRISH UP 
I 

In the next round of the plays," said Parker. "Keenan interhall playoffs, the Bulldogs is a lot more experienced than will face the Keenan Knights. when we played them earlier "With an offense like ours. all in the season; however, the we need to do is make sure more we play, the better we that we don't complicate our get." 
Earn $20/hr! 
MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT 
Still waiting for that killer test score to bring in some cash? 

Here's your chance 1 Call 1-888-581-8378 or ---~ email info.chicago@review.com Tlie 
tor a teaching position today! 
e!JncefOn 
Review 
www.review.com 1.888.581.8378 


Student Workers Needed lo help assist other students using the temporary DART registration system at the Registration Center, G 184 Hesburgh Library from November 
rh 
8 through December 1" 
Hours: 9:00 am to 5:00 pm 
Dates: 
November 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 28, 29, 30, December 1 
We need student help throughout the day... you pick your time you are available 
Please Contact: Arlene Vogt, Assistant Registrar, I05 Main Building, Registrar's Office 631-6050 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAl'tlE 
INTERNATIO:-t'AL STUDY PROGRAMS 181 Semrlty Bu.ildln1 Notre-Dame, Indiana 46556 T: 631-588l Fu: fiJl-!111 

:-..~;.: ·:~?~t~...:r~~.~-~~ 
INNSBRUCK 
2001-2002 Academic Year INFORMATION MEETING 
Come and meet Professor Gemot Giirtler, Director ofthe lnnsbmck Program 
TUESDAY OCTOBER 31, 2000 207 DEBARTOLO 5:00 PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-iotlstud 
Questions? -Weber.15@nd.edu Applicatlon Deadline; December I 



Tuesday, October 31, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TYLER

TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE

FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 
ACTIJALLY, I WA.S 
iHINKING OF 
SOMETHING MORE 
IN THE SPIRIT 
OF MY COSTVME 

Fox TROT  BILL AMEND  ..  
E,UESS WHO GoT AN "A" ON THE SIG MATH TEST?(:))}" ~  THAT'S GREAT! THAT'S Wot.lOERFUL! I'M So PROUO! I  i ! i ;;  CON6rlATU­LATIONS, SON!  OADDY.'  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Grab (onto) 60 Wrestling finales 1 Nerd's friend 30 Leave stranded 61 "Shave in the Arctic, say haircut"
5 Sonia of "Moon Over Parader" 32 Alehouse 62 Ill-tempered 10 Bears' hands 35 Classic pickup 63 Schedule 14 Lucy's partner line#2 position 39 Sault Marie
15 Fished for morays 40 Rabbit relatives 
DOWN 16 Raison d' 41 Gymnast Korbut 
1 Greeting for a 17 Shrinking Asian 42 Fridge posting mate sea 43 Talisman 
2 Architect 18 Hotelier 45 Extreme cruelty Saarinen 
Helmsley 48 Apple gadget 3 Biblical 19 Locale 50 Modern pickup birthright seller 20 Classic pickup line 4 ld!e 
line #1 55 Skirt that's not 
5 Wisconsin 23 Murder mystery for the modest college city plot device 56 Venus' flytrap 
6 Smells to high24 Doesn't proceed feature heaven openly 57 Honolulu's 
7 Among the 

25 Nickel-and-dime island 
clouds org,? 58 Sugar source 
8 Rowlands of 

28 Pitt of "Meet 59 Fur trader John 
"Hope Floats" 

Joe Black" Jacob 
9 1949 Tracy/ Hepburn film ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Rang out ..,..,...,.........,..,....., 11 Courtyards 
-::,;--::-1-,,-+-:::-1 12 Inflict 
13 Anchor store at ,.,,,.+-:-+=+,,-1 many malls 
21 Have the deed to ~--+=+,,,-•r:-t..1r:1 22 Senseless 
-...;;+-~-1 25 Words said while holding the nose 
26 Blind part 27 Player's turn 28 "Rouge" and 
"noir" -=+~:+.=+:,-1 30 50's Hungarian leader Nagy 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Puzzle by Myles Callum 

31 Mediocre mark 32 Campaign effort 33 Exhort 34 Conquer 36 TV's " Line 
Is It Anyway?" 37 End of a challenge 38 1960's-70's Motown 

hitmakers • 42 Mr. Khrushchev 43 Angioplasty 
target 

Make. checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
• 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

44_culpa 49 Insider's vocabulary
45 Disney's Lion King 51 Seine tributary 46 Green card 
52 Follow furtively 
holder 53 "Say it isn't so!" 
47 Had supper 48 Rugby kicks 54 Kick out 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). ~ 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jane Pauley, Dan Rather, Dei­dre Hall, John Candy, Lynda Good­friend, Roger Kahn 
Happy Birthday: You are ready, willing and able to take on the best and show how much you have to offer. Don't back down from any competition or opposition. Your strength of character and diplomacy in dealing with others will help you achieve your goals as well as the recognition you desire. Your num­bers: 5, 7, 18, 26, 39, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Look into travel opportunities. You need to expand your circle of friends. Your knack for gettipg things started will be appreciated by colleagues. 
00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should be checking out investments. Bonds or other conservative ways of saving money will be beneficial, Real estate dealings will tum out better than anticipated, 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotional situation may get out of hand if you don't bend to your mate's demands. Shopping will re­sult in good buys. Take your mate with you to avoid discord later. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Work hard and you will see accomplish­ments. Your boss is watching how well you handle situations. Your abil­ity to get along with co-workers will make a difference when it comes to your evaluation report 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your mind will be on entertainment and com­petitive games. You need to spend time witn friends who may be poten­tial mates. Look into careers that will allow you to work out of your home, 0000 
Birthday Baby: You have a serious perspective on things, but that's exactly why you will be able to make a difference, You are fair and honorable in all your dealings and will win the respect and admiration of those you meet throughout your life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate,com.) 
© 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept, 22): 
Female members of your family may be a little touchy. Be sure to stay out of their way and humor them if you must. Home-improvement projects will tum out well. 00 
LIBRA (Sept 23-Oct 22): Get out with friends, You need some excite­ment in your life, Look into seminars that offer unusual information. You should try to attend functions that will stimulate your mind. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov, 21): You should be able to come up with unique ways to make money on the side. Products or services for the home may be the answer. Look into all your options. Get the family to pitch in, 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): You will be emotionally up and down. Don't take things the wrong way, Your tendency to be overindul­gent and sentimental today will leave you feeling quite silly later on, 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Look into matters that may be secre­tive. It is best to take care of any pending legal problems before they get out of liand, Don't count on get­ting back money that friends owe you,000 
AQUARIUS (Jan, 20-Feb. 18): 
You can get ahead if you are willing to contact those in a position to help. Favors will be granted if you are willing to barter with others, Group involvement will lead to good connections, 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Don't expect co-workers to pick up the slack if you need help, Be pre­pared to stay late if necessary. Your mate might not be too pleased if you haven't given fair warning. 00 

-----· 

Going out with a bang 
Falling just short ofa post-season bid, the Irish look to end their season with a win against IUPU/ at Indianapolis tonight.
PORTS 
page 12 

O
THE 
page 20 BSERVER Tuesday, October 31, 2oo'o, 

MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish falter at Midwest Championships 
By RACHEL BIBER ... Spom Writer 
No trophies were brought home to South Bend after the conclusion of the Intercollegiate Tennis Association Midwest Championships last weekend and the Irish left the final fall event with only the disappoint• ment of a sub-par performance. 
"I was disappointed that we didn't do better at the regionals but it's the first sort of setback we've had all fall," Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss said. "Maybe we were due one, but because it's the last event of the year it's still a disappointment to me. I'm sure they share my dis• appointment. This performance did not meet the goals we had set individually and collectively." 
Irish players Javier Taborga and Luis Haddock-Morales showed a glimmer of Notre Dame's autumn success when they fought their way through the draw to reach the final 16 in singles. But high hopes in the doubles portion of the event were dashed when the first· seeded pair of Taborga and Talarico were knocked out in round two. 
After impressing the collegiate tennis world by reaching the final 16 of the recent ITA All· American Men's Championships, Taborga earned the No. 5 seed in the weekend's 
see TENNIS/page 13 
MEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 

Knott defense stymies Zahm in first round, 7-0 
By JOHNNY LEITNER and 
JOHN BASCIK 
Spores Writers 
Through four regular season games, the tenacious defense of Knott did not allow a single touchdown to be scored on its watch. 
In its first playoff game against Zahm, in a game that featured inspired play by both defenses, Knott made it five in a row, pre• vailing 7-0. 
Knott captain Brian Pawloski admitted that the potent aerial attack of Zahm had his team "a little nervous". 
However, the Juggs remained confident throughout the game. 
"The defensive line played out• standing," said Pawloski. "It was frustrating trying to figure out Zahm, but the front seven played awesome and pulled us through." 
After both offenses struggled in their opening possessions, Knott forced a fumble on a Zahm punt return, which was recovered by coverage man Looe Baker at the Zahm twenty-yard line. 

The Knott offense quickly took advantage of their field position, scoring in three plays off a touch• down pass from Mario Suarez to captain Brian Pawloski. 
Steve Llckus at the four. 
Zahm threatened late in the first half, but did not score. Zahm sought to strike fast in the second set, but lost a third fumble on its first possession. The Zahm defense continued its stingy play, however, and Zahm took over 
Moments appeared poised to strike again. 
After two penalties, Zahm fum­bled inside its own 10, and K n o t t promptly pounced on the ball. However, it was unable to capitalize. 

later, the Juggs again. 
''The defensive line played outstanding. It was frustrating trying to figure out Zahm but the front seven played awesome and pulled us through." 
Brian Pawloski Knott captain 
As the third quarter drew to a close, Z a h m advanced into Knott territory, but failed to convert a cru• cial fourth down. Knott continued to play a conserv• ative, mistake· free offense, 
and pinned Zahm at the eight­
After being denied of the end­zone three times, Knott went for the knockout punch on fourth down, but an interior run was suffocated by Zahm defensive end yard line following a late punt. 
The Rabid Bats did not surren­der wi°th time running·down. however; a pair of completions earned Zahm a first and goal at the Knott eight with a minute remaining. 
A fade pass on second down appeared at first to be good for a touchdown, but Zahm was flagged for offensive pass inter­ference on the play. 
Quarterback Dan Burke threw a couple of desperation passes towards the end zone, but the relentless pressure of Knott's defensive front, led by Joey Gonzalez and Kyle Trotter, thwarted Zahm's final shots, and the game ended at 7-0. 
Both teams felt that the com• petitive and intense nature of the game was not surprising. 
Knott captain Pawloski noted that last season's bout between these teams was also a one• touchdown affair. 
Zahm captain Brian Zant was pleased by the performance of his team. Zant saw both teams' first half defensive stands as critical momentmn changes, but neither 
see KNOTT/page 15 


Despite a poor showing by the Irish, Javier Taborga reached the top 16 round at the Intercollegiate Tennis Association Midwest Championships last weekend. 
Tough Irish show potential 
A chance at a perfectly cen­
tered 28-yard field goal with 
three seconds to go in a game 
to beat the Irish at Notre 
Dame Stadium 
As long as you're not from Notre Dame, this would seem to be a low risk­high pay­off situa­tion. 
That was the chance that Air Force kicker Dave Adams, complete with his "crouch and bounce" pre-kick ritual, had on Saturday. 
But Irish strong safety Glenn Earl didn't feel like playing along with what would have been the Falcon upset, blocking the kick and sending the two teams into overtime, tied at 28. 
Notre Dame showed a lot of' toughness this weekend. After building up and then losing a 28-10 lead in the fourth quar­ter, they were able to make a play at the end of regulation and then score a touchdown to Air Force's field goal in overtime, winning 34-31. 
But you have to give the Falcons credit. too. They outscored the Irish 18·0 in the fourth quarter, running their advantage in the final period over the last three games to 55-14. 
"We consider ourselves a fourth quarter team and when the fourth quarter comes around we expect to dominate, and that's what happened," fullback Scot Becker said. 
Well put. But that's not what the Irish expected. 
The last time the Irish faced overtime was in September against the the No. 1 Nebraska Cornhuskers. In that game, the Irish were a big underdog, trailed going into the fourth, came back to send the game into overtime but lost by three on an Eric Crouch touchdown run. 
The biggest difference'! Air Force isn't Nebraska. 
"There's not a group of guys in the country with more character," Bob Davie said. "I told them before the game 

Ted Fox 
Fox Sports ... Almost 
see FOX/page l 6 

at IUPUI Big East Semifinals 
ar. Miami (OH) Tonight, 7:30 p.m. vs. Boston College Friday, 7:35 p.m.
SPORTS 

Friday, 7 p.m.
ATA 

Women's Swimming Mt:n's Swimming 
vs. Boston College 

at Miami (OH) quad meet ~\h at Oakland 
Saturday, Nov. 11

GLANCE ~.
Friday, 4 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
3:30 p.m. 



