r----------------------------------­
Pushing the right buttons 
Three's company 
For those who have time to waste, 

Wednesday
IfGeorge W. Bush and Al Gore are too 

check out Scene's reviews ofnew video 
middle-of-the-road for you, check out 

games from Play Slalion and Nintendo. 
columns about third party candidates. 

SEPTEMBER 27, 
Scene . pages 14-15 

Viewpoint . pages 12-13 

2000 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

OL XXXIV NO. 27 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Going for the gold 
Olympic athletes learn dedication, perseverance and other life-long lessons. 
' 

By KIFLIN TURNER 
News Writer 
When searching for a wm­mon bond between countries competing in the Olympics, one factor can come tu mind -the growing trend of ath­letes being more competitive at an earlier age. 
It may not be surprising to hear of a 15-year old winning a gold medal at the Olympics. What could be surprising, if not alarming, is the amount. or the Jack of concern given to the personal and mental development of these young athletes. 
Many argue that the Olympics serve as a forum to exhibit the ultimate level of athleticism reached through hard work. pain and persever­ance. 
"Stepping up to the plate, and having the courage to compete and try their best ­that's what the Olympics are all about." said Chris Apple, head coach of the men's soc­cer team. Training and com­peting at the Olympic level is not merely a showcase of one's athletic ability. It is about developing the mental capacity to handle defeat and continue trying regardless of what obstacles may exist. 
"Jt builds your character because you spend so much time and effort in training," said Anne Makinen, a member of Notre Dame's women's soc­cer !cam. 
Makinen played on Finland's Women's National Team, and recalled that her experience in playing sports has had an enriching effect on her life. 
"I had a lot of chances to play overseas and to meet other people, and that's prob­ably helped me to shape my views and my perspectives," said Makinen. 
Participating in sports exposes athletes to the funda­mental lesson that losing in life is inevitable. What is more important is how a person chooses to handle defeat that makes the difference. 
"Sport. in general, teaches that it is the competition. not the victory that matters," said Apple. Striving to achieve excellence builds an athlete's character as well, said Apple. 
"Sport teaches young people how to handle adverse situa­tions -it gives them strength later in life and the skills to deal with those situations," said Apple. 
Competitive sports demand discipline and a strong will to 
see OLYMPICS/page 8 


Students discuss Prague 01eeting 
By MYRA McGRlFF 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students met Tuesday afternoon to discuss the World Bank and International Monetary Fund's (rMF) annual meeting which was held earlier that morning in Prague. 
The issues on the students' table mirrored the issues that originally spawned the April 16 protest in Washington D.C. 
"They (the countries] have to privatize everything like health care, schools, and water after receiving loans. So only those with money now have access to these goods," says Katie Poynter of Peacemakers. 
The charge against the orga­nizations builds around loans givnn to countries in need due to economic problems. The World Bank and the IMF are organizations comprised of over 180 member countries set up to establish economic growth and employment to countries in need. Both organi­zations proposition in revitaliz­ing these economies rest in loaning money to the countries in need. The Joans must be paid back along with interest. Demonstrators see the World Bank and IMF as destroyers of the countries receiving loans. 
So even though monies are distributed to countries in need, those in opposition see an ever-growing gap to repair­ing these countries fallen economies. 
"The IMF gives money to countries in need, bul in the long term solution isn't work­ing," said Maureen Capilla of Peacemakers. "The countries in need have to pay back loans with high interest and in may cases take out more loans just pay the interest. So they're more in debt then when they started." 
The sentiment is that the countries cannot build their economy because of the debt they must pay back. Many of the protesters feel the debt should be forgiven to let these countries rebuild their econo­my. In Tuesday's meeting in Prague, World Bank President James Wolfensohn spoke to the Associated Press about the reform in store for the World Bank as they work in company with I MF. He discussed the introduction of the Poverty Reduction Support Crndit 
The World Bank hopes the new policy will allow for new loans to work in alignment with each countries specific government and policy cycles, giving the countries power over how !he loan is distrib­uted into the economy. 
Reform in the eyes of the protesters reads differently. Some see change coming from restructuring the organiza­tions themselves. 
"Its not like there shouldn't be one {World Bank or IMF). but we don't need one full of corporations," says Poynter. 
Many perceive the involve­ment of corporations within these countries as a long-term threat to the well-being ol' 
see IMF/page 4 


Freshman ·class elects council representatives 
By JASON McFARLEY Assistant News Editor 
Following a busy week of run­off elections for positions on the freshman class council. as of Tuesday night, 25 of the board's 27 posts had been filled. And the results couldn't have come soon enough for the students who emerged from the run-offs. 
"It's a relief to .finally know that I'll be on the council," said Rob Keller, Siegfried Ilall's win­ner. ''I've been so worried," the 18-year-old New Orleans native admitted. 
Other students expressed simi­lar sentiments. 
''I wasn't too worried about winning, but this definitely comes as a relief." said Dillon Ilall representative Don Norton, 
18. 
Norton, whose sister. Molly, is on the junior class council, said now that his position is secured, he can begin serving his class. 
The Downer's Grove, Ill., native has already established a tenta­tive list of ideas that he would like to see implemented. Among them are setting up a computer lab in Dillon and organizing other Dillon-spccilic events and developing social opportunities for freshmen throughout the year. 
"There seems to be a real need for freshmen events because we don't really have anything as a class after Freshman O[rienta­tionJ," Norton said. 
Lauren Fowler, who was elect­ed Pasquerilla East's representa­tive on Monday, is also primed to begin work on the council. Fowler. of' llouston, said her top priority will be class unity, and she will use ideas from previous councils to achieve it. 
"It's very important to have a united class." said the 18-year­old Fowler. "I'd like to see us do things like class masses and T-
see FRESHMAN/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, September 27, 2000 

INSIDE COi.LIMN 
Thank you, my friends 
American medicine never ceases to amaze 

me. All the intricate technical terms, all the 
mechanical mumbo jumbo -all the diseases 
that seem so simple but still cannot be cured. 
It amazes me. But, with all the new technolo­

gies still no one can claim 
a cure to the inconsolable Kelly Hager 
feeling after the loss of a 
loved one. 
Too many people. 
Too many friends. Copy Editor 
Too many close friends. 

All taken, seemingly, too 
soon. Why? 
In the beginning of each of their struggles I 

watched my friends attempt to live a lifetime in 
an allotted two. three and six months. I 
watched them count the days on the calendar 
and grumble to themselves. And one by one, I 
watched them press on. and in turn. pass on. 
Like my friends who have gone before me, I have noticed that along with certain medical diagnosis comes the most primitive need to defy death. People say I should be angry, but I'm not. With the help of my friends, I have pro­gressed past that point. To some, dying is the ultimate failure. I, too, used to believe this. But nc,w, looking back, I think di!Terently. 
There is nothing cool about being sick. Nothing redeeming about a terminal illness. There is nothing cool about watching your clos­est buddies face that fate everyday. But in watching them, and living it with them, I learned a very good lesson. And now, with that lesson in my pocket and without that fear ahead of me. I am able to look past an annoy­ing death sentence and continue friendship. And more so. I am able to hold their hand knowing in full faith that death is not an end, but a beginning. 
Still, not a day passes that I don't think of them. I often find myself renecting and remem­bering each of the wonderful men and women whom l became close to. Everyday I am reminded of how much more special my life is because of the lessons they taught both me and the world by fighting. Yes, my friends may be gone, but their gifts and memories will remain with me for my lifetime. Some things will never die. 
Along the path, my vision of practicing medi­cine changed. It is no longer a term associated with the white lab coats of managed health care -those are not the people patients in grim circumstances work the closest with. Whether it is a physical or emotional ailment, medicine is the art of healing. Ultimately, the people who seem to think they are the most insignificant are the bearers ofjoy and hope, and to these people -for both me and my friends -1am eternally grateful. To the work­ers who stayed after hours to pick up the pieces their supervisor's decisions left dangling, and to the friends that found their way in after visiting hours, Thank you. I attribute my perseverance to your encouragement and support. 
And, as I sit here writing this column, I am wearing the biggest goofiest grin. Why? Because, thanks to my friends, I know a feeling that cannot be described by any American medical journal or text. A feeling that can only be comprehended by the few admirable people that have battled long and hard enough: There is only one thing that beats having a full head of hair -the feeling of victory in knowing that you're healthy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Laura Rompf Laura Kelly Kdly Hager Jos~ Cuellar 
Kiflin Turner Graphics Sports Katie Annis Kathleen O'Brien Production Viewpoint Rachael Protzman l.ane Herrington Lab Tech Ernesto Lacayo 

The Ohscrwr (USPS 599 2-4000) is 1>uhlishcd Monday 1hruugh hiJay eJCccpt Juring c:XJ.01 ;1nJ vacation pcriuds. The Observer i~ J member of thi:­Assodated Press. AJI rt-product~on rights arr reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Concert: White Water  . Concert: Culver Concert  . Lecture: "Club Drugs"  . Book Sale: Friends of  
Lunchtime Musical Series,  Series featuring the  Stephen Barber, 11 :30 to  the South Bend Public  
featuring pianist Vahtang  Dallas Brass, 7:30 p.m.,  1 p.m., Madison Center.  Library, 9 a.m. tp 3 p.m..  
Kodanashvilli, noon,  Eppley Auditorium,  . Lecture: "Children of  South Bend.  
Century Center, South  Culver Academy, Culver.  Substance Abusers"  . Show: South Bend  
Bend.  Anthony Gerber, 11:30 to  Women's Show. 11 a.m. to  
1 p.m., Madison Center.  5 p.m., Century Center,  
South Bend.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Morning-after pill available to Hawaii students 
HONOLULU Professor Albert Yuzpe of Canada 
Sometimes old methods can be 
created the best regimen for a morn­modified into new products. The ing-after pill in 1974. Ile used a com­morning-after pill is an example of bination of 0.05 mg of ethinyl estradi­one of these. ol and 0.50 mg of norgestiel in a two­
The morning-after pill is basically a tablet dosage. double dosage of a birth control pill. It The morning-after pill was is composed of a combination of estro­approved _by the Food and Drug gen and progcstins. Two pills need to Administration in 1997. However, the be taken to prevent pregnancy -the FDA hasn't approved using an over­first pill should be taken within 72 dose of birth control pills as a morn­hours of intercourse, the second pill is ing-after treatment. Only certain pre­taken 12 hours after the first. scription morning-after pills are FDA 
The pill works by delaying or approved. inhibiting/altering ovulation and alter­to rapes or other contraceptive acci­Some of the more common side ing tubal transport of sperm and ova dents. effects that come with the pill are and also works by altering the The Plan B emergency pregnancy nausea and abdominal menstrual endometrium. kit, available at the University of cramps. These side effects are espe­
In the past, high doses of birth con­Hawaii Student Health Services cially common among women who trol pills were used to attempt to stop Center, reduces nausea as a side have never been on birth control pills unwanted pregnancies that occur due effect. before. 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

MTV picks participants for forum 
ANN ARBOR 
A bit of urban New York City moved into the University of Michigan's North .Campus Monday as MTV set up stage for the "A Town Hall Forum with Al Gore" to be taped Tuesday. The program, which will air Tuesday night at 8 p.m., will feature univer­sity students questioning the presidential candidate on a range of issues. "We wanted a breadth of top­ics," MTV Vice President of Communications Jeannie Kedas said regarding the selection process of 150 students and residents participating in Tuesday's discussion. Applicants were asked to name three topics they want to discuss as well as a one-liner question. MTV held a technical rehearsal Monday, with a small, random selection of the 150 partici­pants in attendance. While in rehearsal, LSA sopho­more Edgar Zapata said he tried out for the show because he thought it was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. "I -can't believe that I'm going to be within 20 feet of Al Gore," he said. 
UNIVERSITY OF CALFORNIA 

Council forbids lecture note sales 
BERKELEY 

Students who would rather purchase lecture notes from online companies than attend class may soon find themselves scurrying to class at 8 a.m., due to a bill Gov. Gray Davis signed over the weekend. The bill, authored by Assembly member Gloria Romero, prohibits the commercial sale or distribution of lec­ture ·notes at any University of California, California State University or California community college campus, as well as at private universities in the state. Companies that sell nof:_es online are the major target of this legislation, said Dennis Hall, a legisla­tive director in Romero's office. The bill does not apply to companies that operate in collaboration with university administration and faculty, such as Black Lightning, a popular lecture note service on the University of California at Berkeley campus. Companies that sell lecture notes without consent of the university's administration and faculty are now subject to a civil penalty. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day Scuth Bmd Far:ecas: 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 27. Acxl.WBtla:-!a:eca.st foc d,ytirre an:li.tims arrlhifJ1 t:aq:erat:ure; 
H L 
Wednesday ~ 66 43 Thursday i): 61 41 Friday ~ 62 45 

FRONTS: 
....,.......... -----............

t.O 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STA flONAHY

Saturday ~ 67 47 
Pressu1e
' ' ' '' 

®© ...... 
Htgh Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurrlea Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy

Sunday ~ 65 45 
,11 Assoc1e.ffKI Press 

Atlanta 74 62 Las Vegas 84 60 Penland 72 53 Baltimore 77 56 Memphis 80 62 Sacramento 84 54 Boston 74 46 Milwaukee 78 55 St. Louis I 71 58

4,Q,~96.}.Q i) ~ 6 
Strowers T-storms Rain Fturriss Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 69 47 New York 70 49 Tampa 81 54 Via Associated Prass Graph1csNel Houston 80 58 Philadelphia 73 53 Washington DC 7 4 56 
Shribman: Politics and entertainment in-tertw-ined 
By MEG DADAY 
NewsWrirer 
Anyone who has opened a newspa­per, turned on the television, listened to the radio, or browsed the Internet throughout the 2000 presidential cam­paign might know that a large part of politics is enfortainment. 
The constant struggle between politi­cians and journalists has lead to "the line between entertainment and poli­tics blurring," said David Shribman, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist for The Boston Globe. 
Shribman gavr a lecturr Tuesday in the Ilesburgh Library auditorium titled "The Politics of Entertainment and the Entertainment or Politics." During the lecture, he noted the similarities between politics and the entertainment industry, saying that both "reward style more than content," and "manip­ulate rather than persuade." 
To win voters, Al Gore and George 
W. Bush must deliver their messages to the public through the media. Sometimes. however. the dry messages they delivor do not coincide with jour­nalists' struggle to entertain the pub­lic. 
Noting that the entertainment indus­try recognizes its own similarities to politics, Shribman quoted actor Warren Beatty as saying that there is no real difference between Hollywood and Washington because both are focused on -an audience rememboring a sound bite. 
One major disadvantage Shribman associates with politics becoming more focused on campaigns as a "string of advertising spots" is that "we arc in danger of becoming a nation or specta­tors." 
As politicians try harder to entertain, voters are becoming more passive, warned Shribman. He said that prac­ticing and participating in politics "was the great national sport at the turn of the century" because people were altracted by the barbecues and beer the political parties used to attract vot­ers. Turning control of campaigns over to the media "changed people who run for office and changed the type of peo­ple who are drawn to campaigns." 
The current election. however, will bring about a slight change, Shribman said. "There is a general feeling that the guy in the White House has a lot of personality and that maybe we've had a little bit too much lately." After the scandals of President Bill Clinton, Shribman said he believes the public is looking for a less dynamic leader. 

Shribman said that Al Gore and George W. Bush have a lot more per­sonality and charisma than the media gives them credit for. "The George Herbert Bush and Albert Core I know are different." He describes George 13ush as "exceedingly pleasant, bright, sharp, alert and provocative," although the media has dubbed him a "clumbo." He sees Al Gore as "clever. devilish, provocative, relaxed, and informal," but the press depicts him as "a figure who's nearly embalmed except with different clothes every­day.'' 
Late night entertainers such as David Letterman and Jay Leno encour­age the stereotypes by making fun of the candidates nightly. Thus. the "fixed" public persona of the candi­dates does more to "obscure the candi­dates than illuminate." he said. 
Shribman is Assistant Managing Editor and the Washington bureau chief of The Boston Globe. He is a columnist for the Globe and the National Press Syndil:ate. 

DOUBLE EXPOSURE Thomas Bowes, violin & Eleanor Alberga, piano Tuesd~ October 3, 2000 7:30 pm• Little Theatre SmlM•'Y'C•ll•·•o . /M8__~~R, ~HOTIWDAll/r, IN For ticket information contact lhe Saint /lk:Jr/s Box Office, 2844626  By JASON McFARLEY Assistant News Editor With only 35 voters turning out, Jamie Sablich defeated Steve D'Avria on Tuesday in an off-campus senate. Capturing 58 percent of cast ballots, Sablich, a Notre Dame senior, defeated D'Avria, also a senior, by 20 votes to 15. "Turnout was definitely low, and that's disappointing but not surprising," said Tony Wagner, judicial council presi­dent. Wagner said a lot of off­campus students didn't know the candidates and opted not  
TH£ CULTURE OF UFK VS. THE CULTURE OF DEATH Featuring: Mercedes Arzu Wilson DATE: Wednesday Sept. 27, 2000 PLACE: Hesburgh Library Auditorium University of Notre Dame TIME: 8:00pm Topics to be Presented + Scientific evidence linking abortion and breast cancer • Scientific evidence linking the birth control pill, Norplant, Injections and Intrauterine Device to cancer • The authentic alternative to artificial birth control ­The Ovulation Method of Natural Family Planning: • 98-99% effective in postponing pregnancy • Helps couples struggling with infertility to conceive • _Strengthens marriages Sponsored by: Jacques Maritain Center  

Sablick wins off-campus senate race 
to vote. Also, Wagner said the election was "spur-of-the­moment" and without the nor0 mal buzz of campus elections. 
That's due, in part, to the fact that the need for an elec­tion only came about some two weeks ago, when then off­campus senator Phil Dittmar resigned due to schedule con­flicts. 
"We basically had 10 days to put the election together," Wagner said. 
The controversy continued when, on Sunday, the Student Senate called an emergency meeting to consider an appeal by junior Brian Clemency. Clemency had appealed to the senate after the judicial coun­cil's decision to disqualify him from running for off-campus senator. The senate then unanimously rejected Clemency's appeal, concluding that the Zahm Hall resident was ineligible to run for the position. 
Sablich, who said he didn't do any campaigning prior to his victory, believes that despite advertisements in The Observer, the election was not well publicized. "No one knew about it," he said. 
President of O'Neill Hall last year, Sablich said he "felt a void not being involved in stu­dent government this year. "This election sprang up, and I thought I needed to jump on the opportunity." 
The off-campus senator serves in the same capacity as senators from campus resi­dence halls, according to Wagner. Sablich will attend weekly senate meetings, take on committee work and be a representative on the Campus Life Council. 
"It's a big responsibility, but the duties aren't too over­whelming," Sablich said. 'Tm just looking forward to the opportunity to represent my fellow off-campus students." 
COME TO RN INFORMATION SESSION TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3 -6:00PM Center for Social Concerns 

Wednesday, September 27, 2000

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Web site offers free long-distance calling by application 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
Broad Point Telecommunications, an Internet startup company, touts the issue of free long distance calls on il-; Web site, www.callfreeway.com. 
Beyond the customer comments prais­ing Broad Point as the "greatest thing since chocolate," Internet users will dis­cover that the company promises up to two hours in free long-distance calls each month to anywhere in the United States. 
The catch, however. is that potential subscribers must fill out a personal appli­cation 011line which dSks such information as ethnic heritage, work status. household income, hobbies and purchase interests. 
/\fter the company processes the appli­cation, members receive a toll-free num­ber and a pin code. Callers then listen to 10 lo 15 second advertisements for everv two minutes of long-distance time they wish to receive. National advertisers include First USA, Toshiba, and TGf Fridays. 
Unlike rival Internet company Cortex Telecom, which also olTers free long dis-
Freshinan 
continued from page 1 
shirts, but whatever we do, it's definitely going to be great." 
Keller agrees. Ile said that his experiences with Notre Dame student government thus far have bolstered his anticipa­tion of serving on the council. "Overall, I'd say I've had a very nice first experience with stu­dent government. It's been really positive," Keller said. 
Elections for remaining council seats are expected to wrap up by Thursday. Once freshman representatives from each University residence hall are elected. the council will meet as a whole later this week. Then, next week the council will elect the class council's executive oflicers. 
In addilion to Fowler. Keller and Norton, other representa­tives elected this week includ­ed Michael Kwiatt of Alumni llall, Nick Williams of Fisher Hall, Al Peetz of Keough Hall, Caroline !foams of Lyons Hall, (name coming soon) of O'Neill llall, Phuc Nguyen of Stanford llall and Dan Maguire of Zahm llall. 
IMF 
continued from page 1 
thn people. 
"Outside corporations are coming into in-debt countries and stripping ttw land of its resources," says Jamie Newcomb. a Saint Mary's stu­dcnl. 
So along with high inlcrest loans. demonstrators see coun­tries like Mexico and El Salvador losing rights to regu­late the economy or their coun­try. 
/\!so included in Tuesday's meeting in Prague, Horst Kohler, managing director of IMF spoke to the t\ssociated Press proposing an outlook for the year 2000. Ile says the IMF should strive to promote sus­tained non-inflationary econom­ic growth that bcnelil-; all people of the world. 
A policy to solidify such a goal has yet to be drafted. 
lance, customers' calls won't be interrupt­ed by advertisements. Because Broad Point w.orks through customers' phone bills and doesn't require calling through a computer, there are not lags at the begin­ning of the conversation or poor sound quality, according to an August 2000 arti­cle in the The Naked PC. 
"I think some of the information they're asking might be a little too personal. but the idea of free long distance sounds cool." said freshman Chris Scoletti. 
llowever, the company's Web site promises to keep personal information about members confidential. 
"We only provide advertisers with demographic information, nol with our customers' names and addresses," said Drew Blakeman, company spokesperson. 
The company, founded in 1998, initially launched its service in the greater­Pittsburgh area and has since expanded coast to coast. Currently, Broad Point boasts about 500,000 members across the country with around 20 percent of those enrolled in colleges or universities. 
In the coming months, the company hopes to expand outside the US. It also 

plans to launch a new service ,vhich would allow wllers to "bank" their long­distance time by saving minutes earned by listening to advertisements for future calls. 
Blakeman was not certain when these new services would be available, saying only that they would be offered "sometime within the next fow months." 
Despite Broad Point's strong growth up to this point, Blakeman does not sec his wmpany threatening the larger long dis­tance corporations like AT&T, Sprint and MCI. 
"A lot of people use (our service) as a supplement [to other calling plans]." he said. "We use long distance carriers to provide our service." 
'Tm advised that currently there are 52 Notre Dame students who have used Free Way within the past month ... If the same proportion of 40 percent of students who identify their college when registering holds true for ND, that would mean there are about 130 current ND students who use Free Way," Blakeman said. However, "We don't require that people specify their college at registration." he said. 
Anne Marie Roderiques, a 1992 Notre Dame alurnn who currently lives in Washington D.C., has been using the Broad Point service since the two years it has been available, starting when she was in graduate school at George Washington UniversiCy. 
'Tm definitely in the first 1000 people who started using it," she said. 
"It's a very professionally run system," said Roderiques, adding, "l use up my two hours every month. I've actually ordered stuff from some of the ads, too." 
Hoderiqucs recommends the service to Notre Dame students as a supplement to other long distance plans, not just for its economic value but also for its ability to save customers time. 
"It's convenient because you don't have to keep track of another bill [andl you're not liable for stolen calling cards. It's one more bill you don't have to worry about," she said. 
Broadwing Telecommunications, the official long distance carrier of Notre Dame, and parent company Cincinnati Bell did return voice mail messages regarding competition from Free Way. 
(C)py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame Phone 631-COPY 

Stop in or call The Copy Shop in the Lafortune Student Center for GREAT color copies and prints. 
We can color copy and print onto a variety of media including: Paper, Cardstocl<, Transparencies, Glossy Stock, Heat Transfers (for use on t-shirts etc.), and more. 

,-----------,

¢Color Copies 
single-sided on 8.5" x 11" 28 lb. paper. 
You'll be amazed by the quality. 
(()py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame 
Call 631-COPY FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry -expires 10/6/00.
"N:v~d_:it~a=o:e~f~:d~:n/ 
..·.....·.. ing rights. 
olegiate Olympic Medal Race is on! ' . )the taJty With the GE College Medal 
~,:only on fjElf;Obmoice..com. 

ATION 
Wednesday, September 27, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Eight die as Swiss copters collide: 
Two helicopters taking Indian. tourists on a sightseeing trip to the Alpine glaciers collided Tuesday, killing eight people and seriously injuring four others, police said. As 60 other Indian tourists watched from a soccer lield below, the rotors of the two helicopters struck each other during their landing approach, some 50 feet above the ground, a witness told Swiss radio. 
Jordan sends aid to Iraq: Jordan said Tuesday it would send a plane carrying humanitarian aid to Baghdad, becoming the third nation in a week Hying passengers to Iraq in an escalating challenge to U.N. sanc­tions. The U.S. stcppPd ~1p its protest against the unauthorized flights, which it maintains violate the U.N. embargo on Baghdad. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Report grades evolution teaching: 
In a new chapter of a dispute that pits science against religion, a national organization of scientists gives schools in 19 states unsa,tis­factory grades for teaching evolution. The report, released Tuesday at the American Association for the Advancement of Science, grades 49 states and the District of Columbia on the basis of how well evolution is included in the state science education standards. 
House passes fetus protection bill: 
The House voted Tuesday to ensure that a fetus that is breathing when it leaves the mother's womb, even if' during an abortion procedure, would be treated as a person under federal law. The Born-Alive Infants Protection Act. passed 380-15, states that an infant would be considered to have been born alive if he or she is completely extracted from the mother and breathes and has a beating heart and movement of the muscles. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Knight appears in And I Sport ad: Bob Knight and Latrell Sprewell have both run into trouble for choking someone during a basketball practice. Now both have been fea­tured in TV ads for the same sneaker maker. A commercial for the And1 sports apparel company starring Knight was being edited Tuesday and will air during the Olympic bas­ketball semifinals and finals this week, a spokeswoman for the Andl athletic apparel company said Tuesday. Sprewell appeared in an Andl ad during last year's NBA Finals. 
Market Watch 9126 

Dow 
10,631.32 -176.83 

}ONES 

Composite 
Volume: 
1,172,199,936 

fr"'cAM~~iJli~H!'N:zl;1;~&wiNill 
Nasdaq: 3689.10 -52.12 
~ysE: . 654.8l.1fC!:']i2W~~~65'ff\i%i 
S&P 500: 1427.21 · -11.82 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY  %CHANGE  SGAIN  PRICE  
lNTEL CORP (INTC)  -4.55  -l U(,5  4.l 31  
MICROSOFT CORr (MSFn  ,2.35  -1.4400  6269  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  .J.49  -1.9975  55.19  
DELL COMPUTER (DELL)  -Z.02  -,6nS  33,62  
WORDLCOM INC (WCOMJ  -239  -.62)0  25 50  

CZECH REPUBLIC 

World Bank and IMF spark riots 
Associated Press 
PRAGUE 
Unleashing a fresh round 
of fury against economic 
globalization, 5,000 pro­
testers marched on the 
IMF and World Bank sum­
mit Tuesday, throwing 
firebombs, sticks· and 
rocks at police who 
rnspondPd with clubs, tear 
gas and water cannons. 
The enemies of capital­
ism didn't get the 20,000 
activists .they had hoped 
for but were still able to 
raise a ruckus that left at 
least 69 people injured and 
turned Prague into a 
smoky battle zone. 
Protesters threw Molotov 
cocktails and rocks they 
had made by breaking up 
a cobblestone sidewalk. 
Authorities pushed demon­
strators back each time 
they approached the com­
munist-er a convention 
center where the titans of 
global capitalism had hud­
dled to ponder economic 
issues. 
Hundreds of activists got 
so close. however, that 
officials temporarily 
stopped the International 
Monetary Fund and World 
Bank delegates and staff 
from leaving before evacu­
ating them through a sub­
way station closed to the 
public. 
The skies over Prague 
filled with black smoke 
after some of the demon­
strators built barricades in 
the streets and set them 

ablaze, also torching cars Czech President Vaclav had blocked the road out­humanity that helps the 
in what they billed as a Havel appealed for calm, side the State Opera rich get richer at the 
sequel to riots that marred urging demonstrators to House. where a reception expense of the poor and 
recent economic meetings "abstain from violent for dignitaries was can­the environment. The IMF 
in Seattle and Washington. forms of protests." celed, but that protest and World Bank have 
One of the main goals of After nightfall, a group faded without incident. become favored targets, as · 
the protesters had been to of 200 anarchists moved "The situation now is have capitalist icons such 
trap the IMF and World through the streets, more stabilized," Interior as McDonald's, 
Bank delegates inside the smashing out bank win­Minister Stanislav Gross South Africa's Finance convention center, which dows and demolishing a said. Minister Trevor Manuel, happened briefly. The McDonald's outlet -the Riot police were exhaust­chairman of the summit, fighting hurt at least 69 second to be struck in the ed, so reinforcements were said it was "a pity that it people, and 44 were hospi­riot -and a KFC. Police being brought in, said has descended into vio­talized, including 34 police chased them away and the Interior Minister Stanislav lence" but added it was officers who were attacked city was mostly calm late Gross. unclear what the activists , by wave after wave of pro­Tuesday night. The protesters call glob­were seeking as they fight testers. Another 1,500 activists a Iiz a tio n a menace to economic globalization. 

YUGOSLAVIA 

Milosevic claims win in election 
to a "nonviolent" response. does seem clear that the people have 
Associated Press The opposition called for a rally voted for change," Clinton said in a BELGRADE Wednesday night in downtown speech at Georgetown University in Slobodan Milosevic conceded Belgrade to "celebrate its victory" -Washington.Tuesday that his challenger finished apparently hoping for a show of The announcement raises the first in Yugoslavia's presidential strength to demonstrate to Milosevic stakes in the confrontation between election and declared a runoff -the public's refusal of a runoff. Milosevic and the opposition, which defying demands at home and President Clinton said it was clear faced the choice of accepting a runoff 
abroad that he step down. the opposition had defeated it considers fraudulent or trying to Opposition candidate Vojislav Milosevic, who has led Yugoslavia for pressure the leader -believed to Kostunica rejected an Oct. 8 runoff, 13 years. He said that the United have a firm grip on the top ranks of 
calling it a "fraud" and insisting that States would take steps to lift eco­police and military -to back down. he won Sunday's election outright. At nomic sanctions if' the election result "The truth is obvious, and we will 
the same time, he warned against is honored. defend it by all nonviolent means." any moves that could raise tensions "Despite the government's the opposition leader Kostunica said and called on the opposition to keep attempts to manipulate the vote. it Tuesday. 

. The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 27, 2000 
Celebrate Hispa11ic Heritage Month 2000! 
IHispanos famaso en kistoriaf 

Simon Bolivar (1783-1830), Venezuela. Liberator and Father ofmany Latin Ameri­can countries. Six nations, including Venezu­ela, Colombia, Panama, Ecuador, Peru, _and Bolivia, venerate Simon Bolivar as their lib­erator from the rule ofSpain. lhis great states­man, writer, and revolutionary general is known 
as the George Washington ofSouthAmerica. Simon Bolivar was borninCaracas(nowin Venezuela)onJuly24, 1783,ofanoble Spanish family. For 20 years Bolivar led the fight to free north­ern SouthAmerica. At his height, between 1825 and 1828, he was president or protector ofGran Colombia (now Venezuela, Colombia, Panama, and Ecuador), Peru, and the newly formed Bolivia. Bolivar was a sincere patriot, devoted to the cause of liberty and equality. While ruler ofVenezuela, he proc1aimed the liberation ofslaves. He also was a pioneer in urging the forma­tion ofa union ofAmerican republics. 

Salvador Dali (1904-1990), Spain. 
Spanish surrealist painter, sculptor and illustrator. Dali was born in the region ofCatalonia and lived in Madrid and Paris. He quickly became the "enfant terrible11 ofthe new movements of surrealism and its new branch 
"dadaism". He projected a psychoana­lytical art which, in vecy naturalistic terms gives symbols from his dream life, hallucinations aoo fetishes. Internationally fum:ms, Dali has his paintiµgs placed in the best museums in the world, includ­ing his own museum in Florida. His style has left a huge body of followers and has influenced whole movements in the world of painting. He is, after Picasso, the best Spanish painter and, cer­tairtly, the most internationally famous. 

Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz(l651-1695), Mexico One of the greatest poets the American continent produced in the sev­enteenth century. Born in San Miguel Nepantla, a village south ofMexico City, Sor Juana learned to read from the "amiga" 

....<I 
. ~ of Amecameca. In 1680, she wrote 
, .11111 11 Neptuno aleg6rico in honor ofthe viceroy, Tomas de la Cerda, Marquise ofLa Laglllla. Her works include plays, poetry and prose work. She entered the Convent ofthe Order ofSt. Jerome in 1669, and remained there until her death. She was a Poet Nun, a woman ofgenius, and a person ofintellectual prowess whose ideas and accomplishments were ahead ofher time. Miguel de Cenrantes Saavedra (1547-1616), Spain. Writer. Shakespeare's Spanish contempo­rary and fellow literary genius, Cervantes inaugu­rated the modem novel with his extraordinary Don Quijote de la Mancha, 1602, which has since been translated into every language in the world. It is the most widely published book in the world after the Bible. Cervantes genius as an observer and recorder ofhuman nature has been recognized not only by the great novelists from Flaubert to Dostoyevski but thinkers such as Sigmund Freud credited Cervantes with inspiring some ofhis important psychoanalytical discoveries. Translations ofDon Quijote have brought indelible expressions to the English language suchas: "sky's the limit"; "thanks for nothing"; "a fin­ger inevecypie"; "paid in his own coin"; "a wild-goose chase"; "mind your own business"; "think before you speak"; "forgive and forget";"to smell a rat"; "turning over a new leaf'; "the haves and have-nots"; "born with a silver spoon in his mouth"; "the pot calling the kettle black"; and "you've seen nothing yet." His novel Entremeses, a col­lection ofshort stories, is another one ofhis great works. 

Wednesday, September 27th 
( ·, \ l;l;l 'IT< J ('(}:'\ I 1·('111; w/ 1\,1\ I; l,11 Ho 
LaForlune 
Ballroom 
7:30 pm 

Mr. Blanco is an inde­pendent filmmaker who founded Cutting Edge Entertainment, a pro­duction and consulting company dedicated to developing and produc­ing entertaining and so­cially enriching motion pictures and television programs. He has also produced a six part PBS series on the dra­matic exile experiences ofCubans and Haitians in the the U.S., and an emmy award winning series about Hispanic personalities making it big in America He has been active in govern­rrent and political aflairs in the State ofNew Jer.:. sey and was named one ofthe most 100 influen­tial Hispanics in the US by Hispanic Magazine. 
test IJONt knowledge of famolls Hispanic Americans of the past and presentf FAMOUS HISPANIC AMERICANS OF THE PAST 
PERSON/PEOPLE 
__ 1. Conquistadors 
2. Juan Ponce de Leon 
3. Hernando de Soto __ 4. Father Junipero Serra __ 5. David Glasgow Farragut 
6. 
Pablo Casals 

7. 
Dennis Chaves 

8. 
DesiAmaz 

9. 
Cesar Chavez 

10. 
Roberto Clemente 



WHY FAMOUS? 
a. 
Discovered the Mississippi River 

b. 
World-famous musician, he played the cello 

c. 
Led fight for a better life for migrant farm workers 

d. 
Band leader and actor, was on TV in I Love Lucy 

e. 
On Columbus's 2nd trip; was governor of Puerto Rico 

f. 
Baseball player with Pittsburgh Pirates 1955-1972 

g. 
In 1935, he became first Hispanic U.S. senator 

h. 
Civil War Naval hero, led battle to take New Orleans 

i. 
Spanish soldiers, invaded and took lands from Indians 

j. 
Founder of the California missions 


FAMOUS HISPANIC AMERICANS OF TODAY 
PERSON 
1. 
Joan Baez 

2. 
Antonia Coelho Novello 

3. 
Henry Cisneros 

4. 
Katherine Davalos Ortega 


5. Gloria Estefan __ 6. Nancy Lopez 
7. 
Geraldo Rivera 

8. 
Jose Canseco 

9. 
Jose Carreras 

10. 
Pele 


obttin,d from http://www.educatio11­w11rld.com/a_lesst1nllesson023.shtml 

WHY FAMOUS? 
a. 
One of the world's best female golfers 

b. 
Soccer player 

c. 
Mexican-American mayor of San Antonio, Texas 

d. 
Folk singer 

e. 
Singer from Miami f First Hispanic Treasurer of the United States 

g. 
Opera singer 

h. 
First Hispanic and first female U.S. Surgeon General 

i. 
Baseball player with the Oakland A's 

j. 
Talk show host 


·q ·01 'j '6 ·~ ·g 'f "l 't? ·9 ':, -~ 'j ·11 ':, '£ 'q ·z 'p ·I :A::l)I J:)M.Suy At?p(>J.JO Streoµ::,wy 0!1-fBdS!H J ·01 ·~ '6 'p '8 '8'l 'q ·9 'q -~ 'f ·v 'e '£ ·~ ·z '! ·1 :A::>)I J::)MSUVlS1?d ::lqljO sue:,µ:,wyo!1fBdS!H 
Foley: Morals should rule inedia 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
Advertisers and the media need to hold ads to moral and ethical standards, said Archbishop John Foley in a Tuesday night lecture at the Mendoza College of Business Jordan Auditorium. 
~Advertisers ... are morally responsible for what they seek to move people to do," said Foley. 
The Archbishop, author of the Vatican docu­ment "Ethics in Advertising," said the Catholic Church docs not condemn advertising but feels that companies should base their campaigns on "common moral codes." 
"The Catholic Church has been involved in advertising for 2000 years, it's called evange­lization. We believe in our product and we offer more than a lifetime guarantee," he joked. 
"We've gotten nothing but affirmative respons­es." Foley said of the Church's recent publica­tion. 
Foley said the communications industry should base advertising on truth, respect for the dignity of the human pPrson and concern for the com­mon good. The Archbishop admitted that follow­ing these guidelines is often difficult. 
"I quit several jobs and refused to perform many actions for ethical reasons," he said. 
Foley also suggested that the rewards of prac­ticing ethical advertising policies could be great. As editor of the Catholic Standard and Times, a Philadelphia Diocesan publication, he monitored and restricted the content and source of adver­tisements. 
"I thought we would lose money [for practicing these policies] but we ended up making it. Sometimes virtue is its own reward," he said. 
However he commented that advertisers should exercise common sense in their ad cam­paigns. He cited Nestle's infant formula blitz launched in Africa as an example. The ads per­suaded African mothers to switch from breast feeding their babies to using Nestle's product. 
"Moms mixed formula with unsafe water caus­ing some infants to die," Foley said. The Archbishop addressed advertising issues surrounding electronic media. "The Internet is a wonderful opportunity because you can get into homes that could not 

TONY FLOYD/The Observer 
John Foley lectured Tuesday about advertisers' responsibility to uphold moral and ethical stan­dards. Foley said the communications indus­try's focus should to relay a message of truth. 
otherwise be entered." 

However Foley also warned advertisers and consumers to exercise caution with this more recent form of communication·. 
Foley, a priest of 38 years and a member of the Pontifical Council for Culture, explored ethi­cal advertising issues, not only from a religious viewpoint, but also as a journalist. 
He earned a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University and served on the board of directors of the Catholic Press Association of the United States and Canada from 1977 to 1984. 
Lilly program gives hands-on experience 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
New faces will continue to filter into Saint Mary's Science Hall this year, but unlike most new students, thPy'rc not freshmen. 
The Lilly Lab program, 
. now in its second year, continues to bring high school kids into Saint Mary's labs for hands-on science experience. According to Nancy Nekvasil, head of the Lilly Lab program, this year the labs will mix of biolo­gy and chemistry, and are critical to the community. "Our target audience is the students who don't have a lot of access to laboratories and other facilities," Nekvasil said. "There is such a need. We have a list of 60 schools who are interested." The students come to Saint Mary's to use the labs, and are instructed by a professor during the lab. "They come in whenev­er we can work it out," Nekvasil said. "The facul­ty member finds a time, and then we negotiate with the school." All of the students will be new to the program. Stephen Peters, assistant to the program in chem­istry and physics, has already held one lab ses­sion this year and was very pleased with the results. "They just seemed .very motivated," Peters said. 
New Yorks longest running comedy revue 

"Most of these students don't have facilities for chemistry labs. They come here and do every­thing that they normally couldn't do. It's a real plus." 
Peters is also pleased to see the students learn to navigate through a col­lege campus, which is a different environment from the typical high school scene. 
..lt's good for the college on a whole because it shows our involvement in the community. Some o!' the women in the pro­gram could consider com­ing to Saint Mary's," said Peters. 
Peters also thought that the program had rele­vance to the students' everyday lives outside of school. 
"It is important for stu­dents that age to get some kind of interaction with science because it has rel­evance for everything," Peters said. "We live in a science and technology based society, so they will use what they learn on a daily basis." 
The program is for high-school students, including Catholic schools and homeschoolers. "It feels really overwhelming at times but it is well worth it," Nekvasil said. 
The Lilly labs on Saint Mary's campus are made possible by a grant of $1 million made by the Lilly Foundation last year. The grant expires in December of 2001. 
Saturday 
Sept. :30, 2000 
8pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 

FOR TICKET INFORMATION CONTACT THE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 60X OFFICE AT 
284-4626 
Wednesday, September 27, 2000 

page 8 The Observer . NEWS 
Congr~ moves health care plans 
Associated P=• 
WASIIINCTON 
With Congress scrambling to complete last-minute lt~gisla­tion. momentum gathered Tuesday tor two major health proposals 
-a mea­sure to allow the reimporta­tion of U.S.-made drugs sold cheaper abroad, 

and a bill Lott restoring Medicare cuts made three years ago. 
President Clinton endorsed both in a late-night leUer Monday, and Tuesday, Republican leaders said they have agreed to a version of the reimportation measure. Also, 
OlyIDpics 
continued from page I 
achieve success. These attribut­
es are likely to extend to all 
parts of an athlete's life, as 
mental strength has a direct 
relationship with physical 
strength. 
"I think it is the single most important entity to steer [ath­letes] on the right path oul5ide of religion," said women's head soccer coach, Handy Waldrum. Building honor and values result from the will to succeed and establishing the goals needed to reach that point. 
"With so many other tempta­tions in life, the impact is immeasurable," said Waldrum. By involving young adults to get involved in the sport of better­ing one's self physically and mentally, these athletes will develop a stronger resolve to reject the pressure to succumb to any negative activity. 
Sports are "the best thing to get young people into today," Waldrum said. 
These qualities, while admirable from the spectator's viewpoint are not the only byproducts of Olympic training. 
The typical day for an athlete training for the games may consist of following a strict regi­men of diet and exercise. 
The potential stress levels ollen create a gap between the athletes and their peers that may eventually cause them to feel alienated from the norms oftheir peer group. 
"I think that's the exception. not the rule -most of !the ath­letes] are pretty well adjusted," said Apple. Balancing competi­tion and maintaining a. healthy social life arc feasible qualities that are attained by the majori­the !louse Commerce Committee Tuesday approved a $21 billion boost for Medicare. 
"We'll continue to work on these and other issues," Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott of Mississippi said bofore a meeting with GOP leaders on a number of health care issues. 
Ilouse Majority Leader Dick Armey of Texas said of Clinton's endorsement, uWe're enthusiastic about that. It was one thing we can do. We're going to continue to work with the White House ... [we] hope we can get them to accept that we must do something on a wider scale than that." 
The movement on the two issues' comes as Republicans and Democrats are gridlocked on their two major goals of the year -passing a prescription drug benefit for seniors and a 
ty of young athletes. 
"I think there can certainly 
be a balance and a means to do· 
both," said Waldrum. 
Focusing on a competitive sport for athletes who have the ability to train at a high level is something that young adults should have the option of pur­suing. 
"If you have a high level ath­lete, and that athlete wants it, then I think it is important to put them in that environment," said Waldrum. 
Ol'ten, the media and public in general tend to place a nega­tive stigma on intensive train­ing and competition. 
''I've always viewed athletics like academics in that, in schools, when you put kids that have a higher ability level into honor programs. then it's OK. but when you put kids that have the athletic ability into higher programs, then people have a problem with it," Waldrum said. 
However. there is some con­cern that young adults training at the Olympic level have an unhealthy amount of stress because of their preoccupation with practicing and reaching a near state of perfection. 
Specifically, in individual events such as gymnastics, Apple said that the likelihood of maladjustment to personal relationships is much higher. 
"There is so much pressure on them at a young age to be perfect," said Apple. "After time, those kids will burn out." 
Parental involvement is key, said Waldrum, but sometimes even this vital influence may not always be positive. 
'Too many times the parents live through their kids," said Waldrum Parcnl<; play a sig­nifii:an t role in the lives of young adults whether these patients' rights proposal. 


In his letter, Clinton said he supported the Senate version of the reimportation measure, which includes additional safe­guards to ensure the reimport­ed drugs paose no health risks. 
"Though this initiative does not address seniors' most important need -meaningful insurance to cover the costs of expensive medications -it still has real potential to allow consumers to access proscrip­tion drug discounts," Clinton wrote. 
The legislation, while not finalized, aims to allow phar­macists and drug wholesale distributors to import American-made drugs sold abroad for less than they cost in the United States. The Food and Drug Administration would be required to certify that all reimported drugs are safo and e!Tective. 
influences are positive or nega­
tive, said Waldrum. 
The decision, as well as the extent to which these athletes should pursue competition at such a high level should be left to the child, not the parents, said Makinen. Further, if the athlete feels overwhelmed by the intense practice, the child should also have the right to stop training. 
"My parents have always supported me," said Makinen. "If I were to quit today, they would say 'that's OK, that's fine."' 
Because young adults train­ing for Olympic competition take on training as a full-time activity, schoolwork and per­sonal development often take a backseat to the rigors of prac­ticing and staying fit. Training becomes a way of life devoid of healthy relationships with friends and family. 
"They never get to be kids, to go to the movies, they're always concerned about their weight and what foods they can eat," said Apple. 
Balancing practice, relation­ships with family and friends, and schoolwork is a difficult endeavor, and many athletes decide to concentrate on their sport as a career. However, not everyone will achieve excel­lence and attain an Olympic medal. said Waldrum. 
"I think we all have an oblig­ation to steer them in the direc­tion of education -there are so few athletes that actually go on to make it," said Waldrum. 

Court sends Microsoft case to appeals court 
. Decision marks a victory for the software giant 
Associated Press 
WA.."'IIINGTON 

The Supreme Court delayed any quick resolution of the historic Microsoft antitrust case Tuesday, sending it to a federal appeals court in a tactical win for the soft­ware giant. 
The action means a final deci­sion on whether Microsoft must be broken up could be years away. The Justice Department had want­ed the nation's highest court to hear arguments this winter and issue a ruling in the spring: but the justices granted Microsoft's request to send the case to the fed­eral appeals court. 
"This is a serious setback for the government,'' said William Kovacic, a George Washington University law professor and antitrust expert. "Their strategy was to speed this case to resolution as quickly as possible .... I think the government gambled and failed. At this point, I think the possibility of breakup is next to zero." 
Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive oflicer, said Tuesday that his company is not interested in delays. 
"We're interested in speedy res­olutions," Ballmer said in San Francisco. "We want to get this thing moving as quickly as possi­ble. We want to be able to be vindi­cated and move on." 
At the Justice Department, spokeswoman Cina Talamona said: "We look forward to present­ing our case to the Court of Appeals as expeditiously as possi­
ble.h 
The Supreme Court acted on an 8-1 vote. with Justice Stephen G. Breyer dissenting. lie said the court should hear argument<; now because the case "significantly 
a!Tects an important sector of the economy •· a sector characterized by rapid technological change." 
The justices got a jump on next Monday's start of the 2000-2001 term. granting review in a dozen cases in addition to the order in the Microsoft caso. 
Microsoft is seeking to overturn 

U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's ruling that it engaged in illegally anticompetitive conduct. The judge in June ordered the company split in two. but he postponed enforcement of the order during Microsoft's appeal. 
Within hours of the high court's action Tuesday. the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ordered both sides to propose a schedule for filing briefs in the case. The court ordered Microsof't to submit il<; proposal by Monday al'ternoon, with a govern­ment response due the following Thursday. 
The appeals court decided last summer the Microsoft case would be heard by the full appeals court, rather than a three-judge panel. thereby eliminating one level of appellate review. 
But antitrust experts said it still could be years before a linal rul­ing. After hearing arguments in the case, the appeals court could uphold or reverse Jackson's rul­ings. But it also could send the case back to the judge for further hearings, either on whether Microsoft engaged in illegal con­duct or whether a breakup is the proper remedy. 
AUDITIONS 
ND Opera 
Fri, Sept 29 2:45-5:15 pm 
Annenberg Auditorium, Suite Museum of Art 
Please bring one aria or song (from memory) and music 
for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. Solo roles or chorus open for Spring Semester ND Opera production of a work by Handel. 
Call 1-6201 for more information. 
AUDITIONS 
At~ a 289-5080
~QB"~ Announces the Following Introductory Offers Of... 
e) lio¾ orTI r-12,, 1 s59 , r s6s , r-s69 ,I Aveda I I Cut & I I C-olot Cu1&S1r~ I I Perm, Cut I I Hihtes & I L !;\:!! .J L ~}.!:. .J 1-!!n!::e!!J L~~z.!e.J 1£.u~.;'!_ty~ 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see yo11 soon. 
NOT VALID FOR SPl[{AL PEHMS, LONG on TINTED llAIH ADD$ IO, No OTIIEH DISCOUNTS APPLY. 
OPEN SOME EVENINGS. ATIUA SAi.ON HESEHVES THE IHG!IT TO HEFUSE SEHVICE TO ANY CLIENT 
WHOSE IIAIH CONDITION IS UNSUITABLE. 
Valid with the Following Stylists Only: Sarah, Vicki, & Connie -NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must Be Presented To Receptionist Before Scrv_ices Arc Performed (Certain Restrictions Apply) 
1:157 N. Ironwood Ur. Offer Expires w/w/2000 
Wednesday, September 27, 2000 
Teen-age boys start gun fight at New Orleans school 
Tuesday after a 13-year-old graders had argued beforn the 

Associated Press 
expelled studenl slipped the shootings at the school where weapon to one of them through a students must pass through a NEWOHLEANS fence, authorities said. metal detector to enter. The Two teen-age boys shot each The wounded boys, ages 13 younger boy got the gun from other with the same gun during a and 15. were in critical wndition. outside the chain-link fence and fight at their middle school Witnesses said the eighth-shot the 15-year-old, only to have 
l~l~tt ~D) ~~~l'ltr6) ~[11ll~~ 18J~~·uUttlhi\J Cllu~il~~ 

--:; 
-; 


A mc·s,ag<· from PILLARS with Aknlwl & Drug Ecluc·atiun 3 I I L.1 l'ortunc Srud<·nt l'l'ntL'r
·i ,dr:irnk :: -i./2,OZ [p,l!lr\e,(\_.eo.11101 · 
l'nh-...r~in· of ;'\utr,: Daml' which is approximately (219)6lJ-NiO IO oz 5% beer= 4 oz 12% wine= t oz t 00 proofliquor http://www.nd.nlu/ •!drug/ 
Candidate Prforltfes Social JJstlce Campaign Issues Cathok Social Teachings Your religious valJes
.CNKpa~: 
Nader 
~ Bush Buchanan 

How will You decide to vote? 

ElectionWorkshop•: 
Going to the Voting Booth as Persons of Faith 
Presented •y: NETWORK, a National Cathollc Soclal Justice Lobby 

Where: Debartolo 141 
Whn: Monday 10/2, 4:30 ,m 
lp1111rt~ IJ: The CIC 11d t•• Co1c11trat111 i11 [Cl C1tlollc ltclal T11chl111 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

the older boy grab the gun and The school is among modest shoot him, police Lt. Marlon pastel-colored houses in New Delillo said. Orleans' uptown area. a racially 
The younger boy will be and economically diverse part of charged with attempted murder, town. Delillo said. "I want my little boy out of this 
The boy accused of providing school," Danette Weatherspoon the handgun. Alfred Anderson, said as she waited to take her was arrested about five hours 12-year-old son, Darrell, home. after the shooting at his home in "They need more security a nearby housing project, part of guards here." an economically mixed neigh­There had been several fights borhood not far from St. Charles reported at the school in the past Avenue's elegant antebellum few weeks, but it was unclear mansions. whether the shooting was relat­
Anderson, who was recently ed to those disputes. said David expelled for fighting, was booked Bowser, a police spokesman. on charges of illegally carrying a Police Chief Richard weapon and being a principal to Pennington said investigators 
attempted  were checking  
first-degree  into parents'  
murder, Defillo said. He faces a detention  "We don't think this is gang related. We think it was two children  claims that there has been a gang turf battle involv­ 
hearing Wednesday. The shoot­ involved in ajight and a third person came  ing students at the schools. "We don't  
ing  hap­ and gave a gun."  think  this  is  
pened  just  gang-related.  
before noon in a breeze­way between  Richard Pennington police chief  We think it was two chil­dren involved  
the  main  in a fight and a  
building  at  third  person  

Carter G. Woodson Middle came and gave a gun," hr, said. School and the cafeteria, where School Superintendent hundreds of students were eat­Alphonse Davis said classes will ing lunch. Police recovered the be canceled for three days but .38-caliber revolver. the school will remain open for 
Mike Smith, a 14-year-old sev­students who want to talk to enth-grader. said he heard the counselors. shots, and "everybody started When classes resume next running." lie added that teach­week, two or three police offi­ers made the students stay cers will be assigned to the inside classrooms until it was school, in addition to the 10 usu­safe. ally in the neighborhood. police 
More than 100 parents hurried said. to the school and lined up out­"This horrifying event brings side as ofTicials let small groups too close to home the wide­enter the building to get their spread proliferation of gun vio­children. One parent said recent lence and underscores our light­violence at the school had made ing belier that handgun are too her daughter fearful. easily available to children," 
"She was afraid to come to Mayor Marc Mori.al said. school two weeks ago because In 1998, New Orleans was one boys were fighting," Beronica of the first cities to sue gunmak­Lewis said as she hugged her ers to recover the cost of gun daughter Neshetta, 14, outside violence and accidental shoot­the building. "I told her she'd be ings involving children. About 25 all right. Now I'm just afraid for other municipalities have filed my child." similar lawsuits. 
\sa~

·corps, -1
"".,.,,. th A,tnetl . t-borhoou 
,, V¥ t n.e1gi1 
b ~one\ ntY . 
e; c. 1 unte·

for the 1.1rs 

After graduating from college, Josh Borus joined AmeriCorps to help the youngest members of his community-and he discovered a whole new world. As a teacher's aide in a low-income neighborhood near his home in Boston, Josh worked with students well beyond the regular school hours and provided support they often didn't get at home. "If you see a problem, you have a responsibility to do something about it," Josh 
says. "AmeriCorps gave me that chance." 

Post-Graduate Volunteer Fair, Wednesday, 
September 27, 2000 6pm-9pm, Stepan Center. For more information contact Courtney Nicholas at (312) 353-0574 or 
cnicholas@cns.gov. 

AmeriCorps:Are you up to the challenge? 
1-800-942-2677 www.arnericorps.org/joining 
page 10 

The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, Sepember 27, 2000 

Something for 

every 

one of 

your 

9,000 tastebuds. 
Introducing the new 99C BK CRAVERS™ Menu. 
NEW MENU ITEMS 
• Finger Foods -Mozzarella Cheese Sticks -JALAPENO POPPERS® 
Gore addresses twentyso01ethings' concerns on MTV 
Associated Press 
ANN AH.BUR, Mich. 

The introduction for J\l Gore's MTV appearance made him older than he really is. But it also celebrated his motorcycle-riding youth when he "even smoked the herb." 
The baby boomer candidate told the twentysomethings to call him Al. 
Occasionally taking a shot at being hip, the Democratic presi­dential nominee fielded dozens of sober questions -on racism, gun control and education ­and sonw offbeat ones, too, at the University of Michigan for the MTV cable channel's "Choose or Lose" program on Tuesday. 
Ile weighed in on the side of intellectual property rights in the record conglomerates' copy­right-violation lawsuit against the music-sharing Web site 


Los Angeles Guitar Quartet 
Thursday, September 28, _2000 8 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

Tickecs Required: $3 students• $6 seniors• $8 ND/SMC employees• $10 general admission Tickets available at rhe LaFonune Bo,, Office, (219) 631-8128 
Master Class: Thur,., Sept. 28, 3 pm, He,l>urgh Libiary Faculiy Lounge (The master class i, free and open ,o the public) 

For complae information, \'isit hC(p:l/www.nd.edu/-congom or call (219) 631-6201 
Napstcr. 
"It's a great technology, but it can only be used over the long term if they find a way to protect 

the rights of the artist. If you make something then people take it for nothing, well ... intel­lectual prop­erty is still p r o p erty , " Gore said. 
Gore 
Ile escaped the boxers-or­briefs query that etched MTV's mark on politics when President Clinton replied "usually briefs" at a 1994 youth forum. Instead, one student stumped Gore with. "Paper or plastic:'" 
"Oh. man. I've never figured that one out. Just lump it up in your arms and take it all like that," Gore said, adding with a sigh, "I usually get paper because I like the paper heller." 
Gore's 90-minute questioning on MTV, best known for its music videos, was being broad­cast Tu.,sday night to an es1.i­mated 1 million viewers. It fol­lowed his TV appearances with Oprah Winfrey. Jay Leno and David Letterman, and was part of Gore's effort to mobilize young voters in the battle against Republican rival George W. Bush. 
A survey released this week by the Kaiser Family Foundation and MTV found that less than half of the under-25 crowd is "absolutely" certain to vote in November. 
MTV aired its own rough-cut biography of Gore, identifying him as 53 {he turned 52 on 

March 31), and noting that "he's into P.D.A." (That's "public dis­play of affection," as in his big kiss with wife Tipper at last month's Democratic convention.) 
As for Gore's early resume, M'IV said, "I le listened to rock, rode a motorcycle and even smoked the herb." 
One woman asked Gore about that "herb," telling him a mem­ber of her family was in jail for giving marijuana to a cancer patient. 
The vice president replied that he is against legalizing marijua­na for mcdic,ll use because "thus far, there is absolutely no evi­dence" it is medically effective. 
Gore rel-cased his own bio­graphical ad on Tuesday, the lat­est in a string of positive spots. It opens with highlights of his life: Vietnam veter­an, father of 
four, married "He listened to rock, rode worried that 
for 30 years. It a motorcycle and even girls were then ticks off a using abortion
smoked the herb." 
list of his as birth con­promises, trol, Gore said among them: a MTV personality they need tax deduction on Al Gore "access to after the moderator said. the next segment would deal with the Internet and the environ­ment, Gore said jokingly, "Did you know that I invented the environment'?" 
In a round of rapid-fire ques­tioning, Gore revealed that the rock group Sister Hazel is in his CD player these days, he would cast r,ollege roommate and actor Tommy Lee Jones in the role of AJ Gore, he would invite Lenny Kravitz to perform at the inau­guration and the best perk of being promoted would be Air Force One. 
And if he loses? 
"I would probably be a writer of some kind," the one-time newspaper reporter said. 
Gore defended his support for the death penalty and abortion 
rights. To one 
woman who 

for college tuition, contin­uing welfare reform and a crime victims' "bill of rights." 
MTV representatives said Bush has been invited to make a simi­lar appearance but has not accepted. 
In shirtsleeves, Gore appeared at ease with the young crowd, which included daughter Karcnna, 27. 
"Can I call you Al?" one stu­dent asked. 
"Absolutely," Gore replied. "You know the Paul Simon song, right?" 
During one commercial break, 
appropriate 

sex education, family planning and programs including abstinence but all the range of options." , 
A black student who described being pulled over while driving and "surrounded by six police cars" pressed Gore on why the administration hasn't issued an executive order banning racial profiling. 
Clinton is gathering evidence for such an order, Gore said. adding that if he is elected, "a ban on racial profiling will be the first civil rights act of the 21st century." · 


ACADEMY PREP-Timothy Dowling -ALASKA RADIO MISSION -Andrew McDonnell -AMATE HOUSE -April Olsen -Elizabeth Rompf-Dan Strobel -Christopher Wilmes -AMERICORPS -Stephen Donndelinger -Kimberly Krug -Marisa Marquez -Erin Sylvester -APOSTOLIC VOLUNTEER CORPS -Rex Rallanka -ASSOCIATE MISSIONARIES OF THE ASSUMPTION -Tara McKinney -BOYS HOPE GIRLS HOPE -Michael E. Burke -Kevin Chu -Liz Dailey -Nga T. Do -Kristin Gerber -Phil Lammers -Kelli Moran -CAPUCHIN FRANCISCAN VOLUNTEER CORPS -Kristen Clancy -Kyle Smith -CAPUCHIN FRANCISCAN YOUTH AND FAMILY MINISTRIES -Mandy Dillon -CATHOLIC WORKER -Jen White -CENTRO DE INVESTIGACIONES Y SERVICIOS POPULAR -Angela Anderson -CHAPIN STREET CLINIC -TOM DOOLEY POSITION -Megan Ryan -FARM OF THE CHILD -Douglas Jones -FIRST BOOK -Mary McManus-FRANCISCORPS -Amy Gawelek -FUND FOR PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH -Megan Fry -HABITAT FOR HUMANITY -David Whelan ­HAITIAN PROJECT -Laura Banaszynski -Bret Dillon Hogan -Patrick McCorry -HERALDING CHRIST -Emily Schiebout -HOGAR DE NINOS SAN JOSE ­Anna Gonzalez -Tim Johnson -HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES -Stasia Bijak -Drew Brennan -Jennifer Bryan -Brent Clemens -Kristin Conley -Caroline Grady -Blanca Ibanez -Chris Lawler ­Paul Lewis -Rachel Lustig -Elizabeth Marsh -Andrew Meirose -Emily Mierendorf -Anne Moriarty -Rebecca Palmer -Christopher Shipley -Kelly Starman -Jaclyn Villano -INNER-CITY TEACHING CORPS -BndgetAgnew -JAPAN PROGRAMS -Brendan Browne -Tami Cutter -Mary Hogan -Michael McMorrow -Terri Stillwell -JESUIT VOLUNTEERCORPS -Jen Green -Rebecca Mitsch -Kelli Mullen -Kristen Starr -JESUIT VOLUNTEER INTERNATIONAL-Matt McGarry -KEEP-O'Neill Chisholm -LIFE TREATMENT CENTERS/WILSON FOUN­DATION -Ryan Butt -Peter Camilli -Ruth Luckas-LORETTO VOLUNTEERS -Jennifer Clark -LUTHERAN VOLUNTEER CORPS -Amalie Clausen -MARYKNOLL CHINA TEACHING PROGRAM -PROGRAMSTOBEDETER-Daniel McGowan -MICKEY MINED -J. Megan Cadice ­LELAND HUNGER FEL-Jennifer Connor -Amanda LOWS -Alejandra Lopez------~~--------,,.;----:,-,----:----:---..,,..----,,-------Hicks -Michelle Keefe -Chris-Fernandini -MIDTOWN You are coraia[[y inviter£ to the tina Kolski -Jessica Logan ­EDUCATIONAL FOUNDA-Post-(iracfuate Service rratr Erin Maxwell -Brendan TION -Dan Peate -MOTHER J I McCarthy-Jessie Shaw-Kelly CAROUNE ACADEMY -Wednesday, Seytem6er 27 Smith -Keith Syska -Anna Lori Bettcher -BENQUE 6-gy. m. at Stenan Center Lisa Vargas -Michelle Viegas 
VIEJO DEL CARMEN -John :r -Lara Williams -VIDA -Scott Crisham -NEW ORLEANS Graber -VIDES -Joe VOLUNTEER SERVICE Schneider -VINCENTIANS COMMUNITY-JoshuaBour-P{ease Come to exy{ore Service programs and SERVICE CORPS -Michela geois -Jude Szczerba -NOTRE 
Anne Costello -WORLD
considerjoining tliese

DAME PROGRAM IN 
TEACH -Jean Lantz -RyanPUERTO RICO -Lauren Her-190 graauates of tfie C{ass of2000 Spillers -YOUNG LIFE ­
ring -Katy Murphy · OPEN Elizabeth Ayer -UNION OF 
DOOR-Jennifer White -PACE wlio fiave committee[ to a year or two 
PALESTINIAN MEDICAL Kerrie Johnson 
ofservice witli 57 cfi_fferentyrograms. RELIEF COMMITTEES ­
PASSIONJST LAY 
Nathaniel Marx -RED MISSIONERS Dana 
CLOUD VOLUNTEERS -McSherry -PEACE CORPS -
Guerin Gray -ST. FRANCIS Bradley Joseph -Rebecca Jo­
SCHOOL-Andrea Rossigno ­seph -Angela Carr ­
Marina E. Ziolkowski Donald Chisholm -Patricia Connell -Anthony D'Souza -Colleen Gaughen -Dennis Haraszko -Chrisitne Katin -Jennifer Klein -Christopher Kusek -Sarah Peterson -Walter Poirier -Christopher Powers -Colleen Quinlan -Matt Renaud -Denice Rivera-Shaun Rooney -Maite Uranga -Willian Varettoni -Anna Yates -PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUPS -JoAnna Deeter-PROGRAM ON SCIENTIFIC FREEDOM, RESPONSIBILITY AND LAW -Monica Hlavac -ST. IGNATIUS LOYOLA ACADEMY -Mindi Imes -SAMARITAN INNS -Mike Hutchinson -Elizabeth Moriarty -TEACH FOR AMERICA ­Rob Calleros -Lauren Cooke -Lisa Gadwood · Candice Marcum -TRINITY VOLUNTEER CORPS -Chris Hahn -TEACHER SERVICE PROGRAM ­Laura Abeln -Carmen Hernandez -Meghan O'Brien-ACE -Daniel Adams -Shaunti Althoff -Molly Bates -Daniel Bumpus -Beth Burau -Megan Carlevato C E N T E R 
F O R -Ryan Carlin -Tim Casale -John Castilleja -Brian Chumey -John. Daily -Kevin Dalum -Margarita Dellamano -Chris DellaPorta -Jillian DePaul -David deTagyos -Michael Downs -Michael Earley -Heidi Eppich -Meghan Farrell -Betsy Ferrer -Michael Fierro -Camille Fitzpatrick -Martha Gibney -Kevin SOCIAL Grugen -Lynette Grypp -Cameron Gunville -Leticia Herrera -Kelly Holohan -Kelly Jansky -Gregory Joseph -Joseph Joy -Wade Laffey -Erin Lillis ­Caroline Loftus -Erin Luby -ShaunMcKieman -Margaret Oakar -Frank O'Linn -Araceli Ramirez -Mike Russo -Amy Saks -John Sample -Beau CONCERNS Schweitzer -Karena Shiel -Nicole Shirilla -Kelly Tutko -Molly Welzbacher -Julie Wernick -(names as of September I, 2000) 



VIEWPOINT 
DILBERT 
" ,-:=:::::::::::::::::::::::==::::-, 
THE COMPANY WILL 5AVE FORT'{ MILLION DOLLARS BUT YOU'LL BE TEN THOUSAND OVER BUDGET. 

page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. [N 46556 024 Sowh Dining Hall, Nom Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  8UalNF.SS MANAGt:R  
N orccn C il!espic  Tim Lane  
AsST. MANAGING EmTon  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Christine Kraly  Brian Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Marringly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey Sl'ORU EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR, Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters Au DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOfl: Mike Gunvillc WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EUITO!t: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
0fFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO............. 631-7471 FAX....... .......... .... .... . ........631-6'>27 ADVF.RTISING. ..........................631-6900/8840 
observer@daiwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME... ...............631-4541 8USINF.SS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT ................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SroRTs........................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAllv's ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS... ......631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire a1 http:llob,erver.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news. spons, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

n1inute forecasts 
weekly srudem reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

arrides published afo:r 
ro meec rhe edirors and 

August 1999 
sraff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the students of the Universiry of Notre Danw du Lac and Sainr Mary•s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeirher institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, le1ters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression of all opinions chrough leuc,rs is encouraged. u.·tters to rhc &iiror must be signed :md must include wntacc informarion. 
Q11m1om rrgarding Ob,~rvtr policies ,haultl br dir«t· rd 10 Ed,1or in Chiif Mik, Connolly. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, September 27, 2000 

SCOTT ADAMS 
ANO BEFORE YOU ASK I NO IT WON'T WORK THE OTHER 
I.AJAY AROUND. 

WHOSE SIDE ARE YOU ON? 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Relations between the sexes are so complicated that the only way you can tell if two members of the set are 'going together' is ifthey are married. Then almost certainly, they are not. " 
Cleveland Amory author 
Solving gender puzzles 
My boyfriend and I broke up over the summer. I am fine with this now. I have gotten beyond the point where I never want to look at another guy again and have progressed to the point where I am disinterestedly interested in them Marlaynabecause I know 
Soenneker
that I will probably 
eventually want 
another one. I Here We Go 
think it may be an Again 
addiction. In the 
process of this 
interest. I have noticed some things about guys and girls. 
There are, I have decided. two types of guys. There are nice guys and then there are not-nice guys. I can say this with relative certainty. Guys are sim­pler than girls. There are at least two dozen types of girls. 
There are nice girls. There are not­nice girls. There are nice girls who pre­tend to be not-nice girls. There are not­nice girls who pretend to be nice girls. There are nice girJs who try to seem like they a.re only pretending to be nice girls. There are girls who don't care about guys at all. There are girls who do care about guys but pretend they don't care about them. There are even nice girls who pretend to be not-nice girls pretending to be nice girls who are pretending to not care about guys. It's extremely complicated. 
Guys, however, aren't complicated. There are nice guys and not-nice guys, and that's really about it. Even gay guys fall into these two categories. The problem with this is that girls. being so complicated. think that guys are really more complicated than they are. Guys are aware that girls are not as simple as they are. It frustrates them. But girls see simple guys and think, "He can't possibly be as simple as that. He must really be complicated and tortured underneath." 

Unfortunately for most girls, they think this about the not-nice guys. Instead of saying. "That guy isn't nice," many girls say, "He doesn·t act nice. That must mean that he's really very sensitive underneath and he just needs me to understand him." This mindset usually leads to a relationship of one or two years, sometimes longer, the end of which usually comes at about the same time as the girl realizes that really he is just a not-nice guy. 
As for the nice guys, girls just don't know what to make of them. l think they reverse the not-nice guy logic and decide that if he acts like a nice guy, it must really mean that underneath it all, he's a not-nice guy. So, they won't date him. Which is really poor for the nice guys. 
Two of my best friends back home are classic nice guys. Their names are Matt. Both of them. They complain con­stantly about watching these great girls they know date not-nice guys. These girls date these guys and then come to my nice-guy friends and complain about the not-nice guys. They even say things like. "I wish I could meet some­one .like you." Then. rather than date my nice-guy friends, they go off and date more not-nice guys. This drives my friends nuts. 
I've been telling them for years that eventually we will all turn 25 and the girls will start thinking about finding a guy to marry. Then. I tell them. they will have to beat girls off with a stick. Suddenly. girls will not be interested in understanding the deep. tortured souls 
of the not-nice guys. They will be inter­
ested in finding a guy that they can 
count on to take out the garbage every 
week and clean out the gutters in the 
autumn. This will be very good for my 
nice-guy friends. who are both very 
good at trash-taking-outing and gutter­
cleaning. 

In the meantime, however. nice guys across the country will be doomed to watching really nice girls date their less than nice counterparts. For those nice guys who are fed up with this life. my suggestion is twofold. First of all, they need to start foiling the not-nice guys' image. They need to make the not-nice guys look nice. I suggest things like sending the girl !lowers in the name of the not-nice boyfriend. They could also send them nice e-mails in the name of the not-nice guy. Perhaps love poetry would be appropriate. 
The second part of this plan is that the nice guys need to start projecting an image of not-nice guy-ness. For example, il' they are interested in a girl, rather than listening to her and respecting her as a person, they should simply pressure her constantly to have sex. This works wonders for some rea­son. 
Of course. the nice guys will need to stop projecting this image before we all turn 25 or they will lose the opportunity to beat girls off with a stick. And really, what guy would want to lose that? 
Marlayna Soenneker is a sophomore psychology major. lier column appears in Viewpoint every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Wednesday, September 27, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
Life's lessons 

learned through 
•
service 

!lave any of you students gone to your advisor and said, ''I really want to join a service program aftn I graduate. What courses should I take to increase my probability of getting into a program'?" 1 assume the answer is no. So how is it that approximately 10 percent of 1:ach graduating class makes thP decision to participate in a ser­
vice program after graduation when, for many, the option wasn't even known when they came to ND/SMC? Given this time when our social problems am so daunting and the solutions seem invisible, how and why have students made this choice? Let me sham with you my thcorv 
I think it's about miracles. More specifically, l think il's about the miracle of relationship. Granted. 17 years ago when I was a senior I 
would have never said that I chose to become a Holv Cross associate because or the miracle of relationship. Yet, years later, l think that my theorv has stood the test of time. 
\Vhen ~e serve others we are deeply and profoundly touched ­we are changed. The first part of the miracle is the decision to make a commitment to others. Yet, the miracle is just beginning. For example, when I was an associate I worked at a home health-care agency whose goal was to provide senior citizens services that would allow them to remain in their own homes. One day I received an intake that instructed me to go to Ellen's house every Wednesday and Friday at 4:00 to wash her feet. l was so psyched, not because I have a foot fetish, but because Ellen lived a block away from the swimming pool that I exercised in daily. I thought to myself, "This is great! llow long can it take to wash a foot, seven minutes? Two feet -I'll be done by 4:15, I can go swimming and be home from work early." 
Now, this is not an example of a shining volunteer who selflessly gives her time to save senior citizens from nursing homes. Yet, I walked into Ellen's house with my 15-minute plan and never left in under an hour. As l would wash her feet. this 96-year-old woman would tell me her life story. She shared with me her deep Southern Baptist faith, her stories of being married for 69 years to the same man, and her amazing reflections.of parenting six children who all preceded her in death. 
What Ellen taught me was the miracle of relationship. I never thought about swimming when I was in her presence. I never thought about getting home from work early. I just thought about being with Ellen. From Ellen, my four housemates. other senior citi­zens who profoundly touched me and from the many wonderful Holy Cross priests we worked with, prayed with and were guided by, I learned lessons that I could have never learned in school. 
I learned things that have applied to my life in a most practical and real way. They have applied in my profession as a therapist who works with families and individuals who struggle to heal from abuse and neglect. I learned that while relationships can wound and cause deep pain, they can also be the most powerful, healing and wonder­ful girt that God gives us. . 
From my volunteer year I received what I believe to be a very fine course in marriage preparation. To live with other people who are just as strong-willed and committed to their values as you are is great training for marriage. As a community we struggled with how to spend our money and time, the balance between work and play, and how to meet individual and community needs. What better way to grow and prepare for marriage? 
If you choose full-time or part-time service after graduation, I encourage you to leave your diplomas at home, to once again give yourself permission to be a student. The people you w~ll serve will teach you how to help them meet their needs. Many of those who you will serve have never gone to college, but hold doctorates in life. If you can give yourself permission to be open and learn, you will once again experience the miracle of relationship. 
Lastly. you are not being sent on a burdensome mission. You are not being sent to save the \Vorld. You will see pain; you will feel sad­ness; you will experience despair. But in all miracles there is intense joy. Don't forget to recognize it and don't forget to celebrate it! 
If you would like more information on post-graduate service opilortuniLies, please come to the Post-graduate Service Fair tonight, 6 -9 p.m. at Stepan Center. 
"For a Afore Just and Humane World" is a bi-weekly column in The Observer. This column is written hy MJ Murray-Vachon who is a mother oftwo children and is a therapist in South Bend. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
csc 
For A More 
Just and 
Humane World 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Support third parties 
As the 2000 election draws near, frenzied presidential campaigns once again rage across our nation. Tragically, the effect of irresponsi­ble presidential campaigning is the large-scale trivialization of our most urgent problems in a reality manifested in pitiful voter turnout and an apathetic attitude toward social and envi­ronmental issues. This inaction has allowed the major parties to stay in pownr despite wide­spread dissatisfaction. The Republican and Uemocratic parties. in concert with the media and large corporations, continue to silence grass-roots political movements. By denying third-party candidates media coverage and a place in the debates, they ensure that the voic­es of opposition will not he heard. 
The Commission on Public Debates, an orga­nization funded by the same corporations bankrolling the two parties' campaigns, has implemented a requirement of 15 percent sup­port in national polls. This arbitrary number is prohibitive to any third-party candidate, espe­cially given that he or she would also have no support or coverage from the media. This rul­ing is particularly absurd given that the requirement for Federal Matching Funds is only five percent of the national vote. (For ref­erence, Minnesota Gov. Jesse Ventura was polling at eight percent before being included in the debates. He went on to win the election and drive an unprecedented voter turnout.) The power to stop the downward spiral rests in our hands. 
Our national race this year has a significant third-party candidate who, despite having 64 percent of Americans voicing support for his inclusion in the debates, will not appear in any of the presidential or vice-presidential debates. 


Campaign article biased 
I was greatly disappointed to read the one­sided analysis presented in yesterday's news article written by Ms. Erin LaRuffa, who also happens to be secretary of the College Democrats. While it is commendable that the author is politically active, what was passed off as news in the article, "Bush, Gore campaigns tainted with controversy," was nothing short of Democratic propaganda. Instead of beginning with the breaking news that the Bush cam­paign is now ahead or that the FBI is investi­gating a Gore spy within the Bush campaign, the article recounts a two-week-old allegation against an RNC ad. Moreover, when the article finally does discuss the incident of the stolen Bush videotape, it characterizes the theft as "another problem challenging the Bush cam­paign." Given the current FBI investigation of a Democratic operative, such a characterization is factually incorrect and erroneously places blame for the incident on the Bush campaign instead of on Gore. 
Additionally, the first 95 percent of the article exclusively uses the Bush campaign to illus­trate what it considers mistakes within the presidential race. Though the title implies that the article will discuss both campaigns, only the last 60 words of the article are dedicated to Ralph Nader and vice-presidential candidate Winona LaDuke will represent the Green Party in November due to a grass-roots campaign run by volunteers nationwide. Their names will appear on most (43) states' ballots, and they have also earned a write-in option in five more (including Indiana). While the Green Party's candidates have the wisdom, the ability and the endorsement to lead this nation well, they will receive little national attention simply because they oppose corporate and media influence in the campaign process. Despite filling countless stadiums along their campaign trail, both this astounding level of support and their desper­ately-needed platform of environmental and social reform are kept hidden from most of the nation. 
We need leaders with more respect for our world and its people; with more insight into our future than into corporate fundraising; with more compassion and fundamental capacity to correct our nation's abuses. If we allow res­olute, uncompromising calls for reform into the national spotlight, the silent majority (the poor and the disinterested) would find a voice able to lead us out of this corporate and political quagmire. Stifling the active, democratic and vital objections that third parties offer is a bla­tant subversion of the political process and our country's espoused values. 
I encourage you to visit www.votenader.org as well as www.debatethis.org to learn about including third parties in debates. 
Allison Kitchner sophor{;"ore Breen Phillips September 23, 2000 
/ 
'+l~~'s 
OUR POl)\llt-\~ 

an analvsis of Al Gore's recent blunders. 
Appa;ently, the article does not find it impor­tant that Al Gore lied to the public when he said both his mother and dog take the same pain medication (which in fact they do not). Furthermore, the article does not find it news­worthy that Mr. Gore's proposed budget is actually out of balance because he double counts revenue from a new tobacco tax. 
Finally, though the article highlights verbal mistakes made by George Bush, it does not detail any blunders made by Al Gore. Is Al Gore's comment, "I was recently on a tour of Latin America, and the only regret I have was that I didn't study Latin harder in school ... " not a perfect example of a miscue? 
After reading about The Observer's concerns regarding its journalistic integrity, I am very disappointed to see such a slanted and partisan article. In the future, opinions should be con­fined to the Viewpoint page and not thinly veiled as a news story. 
Trip Foley 
Sorin College 
Class of 2003 
September 26, 2000 



V I D E M E s 
page 14 Wednesday, September 27, 2000 
Upcoming releases, new game systems J• 
'Alundra' sequel tries again, but Flint still fails 
from the Baron's control. to give into frustation before very awkward and hard to can take the hnro ten to twen­By JOSE CUELLAR As in all true role-playing reaching that point. remember. ty hits to defeat the bad guys. Video Game Reviewer 
g a m e s Despite The camera angles in the So while the healing herbs 
(RPGs). Flint 
progres­"Alundra" sequel make it dif­come in handy, the bosses 
To be completely honest. develops new sive tech­ficult to determine the dis­can also steal the whole sup­
"Alundra 2: A New Legend techniques niques, tance between your character ply, leaving Flint helpless. 
Begins" is an unknown game. as the game "Alundra and the opponent. With the added problem of 
Not many people have ever progresses. 2"is over­In addition to these prob­awkward controls, beating 
heard the name "Alundra," Some tech­all an lems, the polygonal Full even three of· the bosses is 
and even less can remember niques are unimpres­Motion Videos (FMVs) are difficult, and the fourth is 
when the original game sat determined sive and boring and useless. Although nearly impossible. 
on the shelf. by the kind disap­they tell the story and give Overall, "Alundra 2" can be 
Nevertheless, Activision has ol' weapon he pointing some background information compared to "Mega Man released a sequel to the carries: in game. for the game, some JasL even Legends," though it is signif­Playstation game. Those thaL Flint's case, Th o s e longer than thn introduction. cantly less enjoyable. In fact have played the original his sword. who pur­One positive addition is the all of' "Alundra 2" is some­"Alundra" will rl()cognize the The stronger chase the extra graphics that program­what boring. polygonal environment and F I i n t g a m e me rs at Contrail and The FMVs arc 110 longer the same litlle blue main becomes, the may feel Activision decided to put in exciting as the videos are character. more power-Alundra 2: A New like the the picture. Some are still already a staple in the 
"A!undra 2." stars Flint, a f'ul magic he eager kid annoying, though. Playstation Final Fantasies swordsman and pirate hunter can perform. who begs One scene requires constant and in numerous Playstation
Legend Begins 

who eventually becomes the Throughout his par-changing of the camera angle titles. hunted. Flint is aided in his the game, ents to because of an obtrusive air The characters' voices arc a adventures by Princess Flint collects Platform: Playstation buy him duct. The air duct stretches nice addition. but in choosing Alexia. who has just escaped keys, puzzle the new across the screen, blocking voices over graphics, pro­from a sinister ruler named a nd game just the action and potentially grammers have taken away
pieces Developer: Activision,

the Baron -the main enemy h e a I i n g Contrail because it costing players healing herbs. from the visual effects. The of Alundra 2. h e r b s looks cool, llowever, these healing voices sound like the corny 
The Baron's wizard ("Hcsidcnt 
only to herbs may not be as valuable voices on anime shows and M(\phislo has turned the ani­Evil" rip oil, Grade: discard it as the game suggests. The the language is just as cheesy. mals of the kingdom of anyone?) after a fow American version of t.hn game If "Alundra 2" can be Varuna into evil. mechanical The puzzle minutes of has two difficulty levels: easy summed up in three words. bin-engineered mutants. Flint pieces will probably serve an play. and regular. In the easy level, they would be : corny, corny, must battle these monsters in important purpose later in The problems with "Alundra the evil bosses can beat Flint corny. order to free the kingdom the game, but it is all too easy 2" are many. The controls are with just a few hits. while it 
new Platform WatchI I 


available October 26 for $299.99 ERT 
Forget everything you know and step in the 128-bit universe of Sony PlayStation 2. Sony will scan a revolution with the processing power, visual clarity and unrivaled gameplay ofrlayScation 2 on Oct. 26, 2000. Plus, PlayStation 2 will play your PlayScacion games as welll as the new titles thac will change che video game landscape forever! 
It plays audio CDs, DVD movies and games right out ofthe box! PlayStation 2 will forever change the way we play games with is unrivaled graphics, sound and gameplay. 


available now 
Here comes the PS one, Sony's newest version of the best-selling PlayStation! The PS one docs everything a PlayStation does, but it's only one-third the size. 
Toss it into your backpack and cake it with you! 



available October 200 I 
The next-generation video game platform from the Big "N." Nintendo's new Cube console is designed to be super-fast, easy to program for and very, very mass-market friendly." 
The Cube will have a modem giving it Internet access to play against other players over the net. Another innovation is the new storage medium: the GAMECUBE disc. It is smaller in size than a regular CD, yet it holds almost twice as much data. Just look at rhe screenshors below. 
V I D E M E s 
Wednesday, September 27, 2000 page 15 
t in time for fall procrastination enjoyment 


"Legend of Zelda 2: Majota's Mask" employs the same gameplay mechanics 
as "The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina ofTime", plus adds 
many new exciring features to experience and explore in rhe 
legend's next chaprer. Link has a bad 
case of deja vu, and relives the same 
three days and three nights, exploring 
his world and interacting with ocher 
characters like never before! A key. 
new element of game play is Link's 
ability to actually transform into 


new characters by wearing the different masks. By donning these masks, Link can assume the form of a 
Goron, a Zora and even a Deku Scrub. 
Available (Nintendo 64) 
High-flyin', hard hittin ', incense power play hockey action is back with "NHL 2001" for PC. Lace up tbe skates 
l ! , 

!!. . • ;;,:;,i;;,;~~~n;,r~::~~::n~o~L ,.,..,;I), . . ·-· Jf;J!•. CoIumbus Blue Jack·ecs and 
Minnesota Wild. "NHL 2001" invites the world to play with 
the addition of 20 international teams including Ukraine and 
Latvia. Feel the full hockey flavor by building a custom team 
with the jersey editor, logo importer and customizable city and 
team names. EA SPORTS pms you in the game with the 
"Face in the Game" feature -witness fans throw their hats on 
the ice in your honor after a hat crick. Wich a variety of game 
modes including Quick Game, Season Play, Career Mode, 
Playoffs and Tournaments, all the goals are just a slap shot away. 
PlaySration The sequel to the Greatest Hits citle "Parasite Eve" on the Playsracion game console. With its new graphics engine and optimized real-time battle system, this action epic is sure to become another 


bestseller. ''Parasite Eve 2" brings back Aya Brea, a police investigator 
that rapped Mitochondria fueled powers rn defeat the evil plaguing New York City and 
become the first to experience the new evolurion of man. PlaySrarion "Mario Tennis" stars 16 different characters, each with his or her own set ofstrengths and weaknesses. ''Mario Tennis,.-is extremely easy for beginners co pick up and play, bur it also holds many advanced mechanics for experienced gamers co master. (Nintendo 64) 



PlayStat,on.2 JZ.. 
Get ready for a dose of bone-crunching 

football action on rhe PlaySrarion 2 with "Madden· NFL 2001." "Madden NFL 2001" features an all-new and exclusive NFL Coaches Club license, which means you'll see coaches on rhe sidelines and hear them yelling encouragement, comments and criticisms. "Madden NFL 2001" also 
features individualized details, easy-to-use interface, dynamically enhanced audio and play-by-play recorded with John Madden and his broadcast partner, Pat Summerall and more! 

The "Final Fantasy" series once again unleashes an enthralling saga of epic
,, ' ., 
proportions wirh "Final Fantasy IX."
.f.lfil:dll1JJlU 
Enter a tale of an evil queen's quest for 1 world domination and join a group of -.................... ,.....................--young bandits, black mages, dragon
........................, 
knights and summoners who wilt do anything co stop her. The reigning ruler of RPGs returns with a storyline full of twists and turns and populated by your favorite magical beings and 
monsters. PlayStation 
Information about titles and consoles courtesy of www.ebworld.com and SquareSoft 
-
-
Wednesday, September 27, 2000
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Lyons fall victim to Welsh's Rak-Grubb combination 
... Casey Bouton. "Both offensive­strides." Lhc score to 2 7 -0. The Pyro defense. the less By JEFF BALTRUZAK and JOE ly and defensively, we are Howard led the game quick­Klinek was not surprised by heralded or the two defenses LICANDRO moving in the right direction. ly after a four-play drive. her team's strong play. on the field, proved to be the Sports Wri1er We need to work on catching Klinek caught a pass for a 40-"We're definitely one or the deciding factor. the ball for next game because yard gain, and then Vaselik best teams in the league," she Just prior to half time. Lewis Welsh vs. Lyons we dropped a lot of balls on found her again in the back of said. had the ball in PE tcrri tory. 
offense and missed some the end zone to make the Dcalcuaz was picked off byLyons became lhe latest in a opportunities for intercep­score 7-0. Pyro defender Ellen Mills, and
Pasquerilla East vs. Lewis

slring of victims to the Welsh tions." While the Duck offense was was off to the races, arrivingpassing attack of quarterback Lyons quarterback Sarah running in overdrive, the in the end zone to give her
In a game~moved from the

Katie Hak and wide receiver Jenkins avoided committing Pangborn unit sputtered. The team a 12-6 edge.
muddy McG!inn field to a

Jenn Grubb. any turnovers. but she came Phoxcs drove inside the Duck By halftime, the scoring was
slightly less-saturated Stepan

In what has been a recur­up just short of leading her 20-yard line only once, and done, and the second half
field, Pasquerilla East defeat­ring theme all year, Bak and 

team to the end zone. Welsh's were forced to punt three turned into a del'ensive stale­
ed Lewis 12-6 on Sunday.

Grubb hooked up for two secondary was led by the stel­times. mate full of missed opportuni­
-The Lewis defense was
touchdown passes to lead lar play of freshman safety "Let's just say we have a lot ties for the Lewis offense.
expected to star with its tough

Welsh to a 20-0 victory over Emily Oess, who made open­of things to work on for the Twice the Chic.ks drove into
play, but in the end the PE

Lyons Sunday at Stepan Field field tackles throughout the offense," said captain Erin the red zone
defenders

tu improve its record to 3-0. game. Piroutek. and twice
stole the show

Despitti a valiant effort by 
After the game, Oess attrib­The Howard defense they were
and the game. "We felt like we played
Lyons' young secondary, Rak's uted Welsh's defensive success excelled. Emily Borg and com­turned away
Lewis struck 

our game. In the end,
accuracy and Grubb's speed to team speed. pany intercepted three passes with no
first, with the

proved once again to be too "We reacted to the ball by Pangborn quarterback they came up with the big points fur
help of its

much for opposing defenses to quickly," Oess said, "And we Melissa Kalas, as the defensive their efforts.
defense. The play."
handle. didn't let them have any sig­line put up a tough pass rush. W e
Chicks inter­

On Wclsh's second offensive nificant gains after they Vaselik was pleased about couldn't
cepted PE

possession, Hak connected caught the ball." Howard's overall team play. Katharine Harcourt quite exe­
quarterback

with Grubb on a 20-yard post ''There's always some room Lewis captain cute," said
Lindsay

pattern down the middle of for improvement," Vaselik Harcourt.
Pangborn vs. Howard Terifay and
the field. On Welsh 's next time said, "But this week it all "It's kind of
returned the

down the field, Hak threw a came together." disappointing."
The Ducks trounced the ball to inside the Pyro 20-yard
40-yard touchdown bomb to a The start of the second half Lewis had one final chance
Pangborn Phoxes 34-0 as line. The Lewis offense, led by
streaking Grubb to make the proved to be decisive. as to tie the game in the final
Howard quarterback Jill field general Chantal Dealcuaz
score 12-0. Howard caused two turnovers minutes, driving inside the
Vaselik turned in an outstand­and-wideout Katie Schlosser,
After stalling on offense for and scored a touchdown dur­Pyro five-yard line. PE made a
ing performance. punched the ball in on fourth
the next couple possessions, 
ing a three play span. On the stunning interception or
Vasclik had a hand in all five down to set the score at 6-0.
Hak threw her third touch­
first play of the half, Kalas Dealcuaz in its own end zone,
Duck touchdowns, throwing PE answered back later in
down pass to Vanessa Lichon 
was intercepted, and the and the Pyros ran out the
for four and catching the fifth. the first half. Terifay found
to give Welsh an 18-0 lead. Ducks returned the ball to the clock, sealing the victory.
She was deadly accurate, wide receiver Stacey Leicht in
Welsh added the two-point to eight-yard line. Chick captain Katharine
carving the Phoxes' defense the end zone from five yards
finish with 20 points. On the next play Vaselik Harcourt thought her squad
while completing eight passes out to tie the game at six, after
While Wclsh's offense was 
fired her third touchdown pass played well, but just came up
to athletic wide-out Elizabeth a long drive against the vaunt­
impressive, its "bend but don't 

to receiver Vanessa Nero, shorL
Klinck. She was quick to credit ed Lewis defense.
break" defense was·up to the making the score 20-0. The "We felt like we played our
her teammates for the victory. "We moved methodically
task as well. not allowing 
Duck defense then stunned the game," she said. "In the end,
"It was a team effort," down the lield for that score,"
Lyons any long passing plays. Phoxes with another intercep­they came up with the big
Klinck explained. "Each week said Leicht. "We had really
"The defensive shutout. was 
tion, setting up one more play."
we make more and more good execution."
great," said Welsh coach 
Vaselik touchdown pass to up 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m-at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cencs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  Shirley,  matt teubner, you are still privileged  
LOST & FOUND  A.M. -232-2378 P.M. ­288-2726  WANTED  FOR SALE  Thank you so much for all that you do. There are days we would not go  enough tor me to refer to you with two names. SOME people, unlike  
to print without you. We don't know  you matt, just don't appreciate if, so  
how you do itEbut you do. Thanks  they have to get demoted.  
BUY/SELL N.O. FOOTBALL TIX.  WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK  SPRING BREAK 2001 -Jamaica,  for the toner! (We're still amazed.)  
- LOST ND-PU WEEKEND ­OUR PURDUE FLAG WAS LOST IN  HOME & AWAY. (219) 289-8048  Ski &Beach trips on sate nowl www.sunchase.com or call 1-800­ Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring Campus Reps -2 Free Trips! Free  You hold us together!!!!! The Observer Staff  I am going to marry Pat  
THE PARKING LOT ON THE  NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX  SUNCHASE TODAY!  Meals-Book by 11/3. Call 1-800­ lauren schmogels -have fun on  
SOUTH SIDE OF EDISON ROAD.  NEEDED  426-7710 or sunsplashtours.com.  your retreat this weekend!  
THE 6 FT. X 10 FT. FLAG WAS  Christian family in need of upbeat  Janel and Volleybelles ... great job!  
HANO SEWN BY MY WIFE. NO  caregiver tor 18-mo.-old boy in our  Yamaha MOB digital 8-track rec.  bo: behave yourself  
QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE  Dad needs 2 tix to Stanford game!  home near campus. Flex. Hours &  minidiscs are inc.$750 060 CD  What can I say. I'm a member of  
DROP OFF AT THE OBSERVER  Ckrosey@mindspring.com  great pay. Call Sharyl at 237-0911.  quaL rec. exl. Cond. -Pat 287­ three clowns.  hey kale, how ya doin'?  
OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH  7369.  
DINING HALL  Help!  Where did that come from?  libby, schmibby  
THANK YOU VERY MUCH  2 ND/USC TIX+ AIRFARE!  19S1 lzuzu Stylus. Runs Great.  
GOTO alumni nd.edu/-ndc_satx  Staffer needs to rent condo/guest  105K, manual, NC, stereo, P/S_  Feel better, Colleen!  it's three a.m. i must be insane  
house/room in Pasedena, CA.  Must Sflll. $2200. O/b/o. 219-271­ 
TICKETS  FOR SALE, FOOTBALL TICKETS, All GAMES ... 272-7233.  General area for New Yea~s holi­day period  5623 or a1tman.3@nd.edu  Holy classifieds batman  mary, you are a fantabulous older sister!  
(12-27 to 1-2) My son is marching  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  yo katie metzi, you are my hero,  
in the Rose Bowl Parade! Would  with orthopedic mattress set and  you and mario, plus i really think  And now, the voice changes ...  
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS  FOR RENT  consider hosting your family tor the USC2001 game, tickets included,  deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235. 219-862-2082.  that you and bert would make an adorably cute couple  Jose, you are my latino lover  
289-9280  ND tans only!  
Please email tdatnd@aol.com or  hey kelle, hope you're having a  whom I adore, and bow to  
ATTENTION: Paying $50 00 per  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  call 259-7544, as tor Tina. Thanks  PERSONAL  happy dayl  but, hey, can't forget that Pat boy  
--·  ticket for last 3 home games "  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS  keara is also my hero b/c she can  
No student conversions wanted."  Babysitter: Looking for an ener- Impress potential employers.  beat me up -she's quite possibly  here fishy fishy ...  
(219) 289-8048.  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  getic babysitter for the evening ol  the strongest person i know  
email:mmmrentals@aol.com  Fn. Oct. 6, and afternoon of Sat.  Keep in contact with friends and rel- FAMEI I'm gonna live forever!  
232-2595  Oct. 7, to watch 2-yr.-old and 4-yr.•  allves.  0-0-0-0-0 cheerios!  
SELLING  old. Will pay $12/hr.  red hair. .. "are you irish?"  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  Student "business" cards are not  i wanna go home!III  
That Pretty Place, Bed and  Call 937-294-4857.  available at  who's afraid of the big bad wolf?  
251-1570  Breakfast Inn has space available  THE COPY SHOP  I'm henry the eighth i am.  
- lor football/parent wknds.  we didn't start the fire  
5 Rooms with private baths,  EXPANDING INTERNET COMPA- Lafortune Student Center  Yo Markus, if i was still your girl- 
VICTORY TKTS  $80-$115, Middlebury,  NY SEEKS PEOPLE INTERESTED  6:,l1-COPY  friend i would allow you to wear any  blame it on noreen's candles  
BUY'SELL'TRADE  30 miles from campus. Toll Road,  IN EARNING PART-TIME OR  of my clothing! U/k becky darlin'I)  
NO FOOTBALL  Exit/1107, 1-800-418-9487.  FULL-TIME INCOME. EASY  hear ye hear ye, court is in session  
232-0964  MONEY NO EXPERIENCE NEC­ THE COPY SHOP  zacky, you are my only brother left  
www.victorytickets.com  ESSARY. CONT ACT DREW AT  now that my other one 1s gone. how  one poster, two poster  
2 BR. 2nd fir. Apt 525/mo.  273-1998 OR BILL AT 251-1362  Lafortune Student Center  sad tor me  
._  Along St. Joe River  Store Hours  please retrain from smoking  
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  Incl. Water/Sec. SystJTrash  Computer tutor in my home.  Mon-Tilurs  
273-3911  288-2654 or 288-2788  $10+/hr Microsoft Front Page, Web  7:30 a.m, -Midnight  i enjoy room 303 of alumni  it is a tumor causing, teeth staining.  
design. Flex 12+ hrs/wk. Free cot- Fn: 7:30 a.m -7:00 p.m.  smelly, puking habit  
tee!!I 273-0205  Sat: Noon-6p.m.  
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  NICE HOME AVAILABLE NOW  Suri: Noon-Midnight  kristin krouse -if you really valued  4 a.m at the O  
AM. -232-2378  NORTH OF ND [ROSELAND) 2n­ WILL BUY USED CARS CALL 272­ PHONE 631-COPY  my friendship whatsoever, you  
P M -288-2726  3097.  4776_  would watch my movie  and I'm spent.  

-,. 
BASKETBALL 
Three Irish players named as picks for Player of the Year 
. Riley, Ratay on Naismith College Basketball Player of the Year pre­season candidate list 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior center Ruth Riley and sophomore guard Alicia Ratay are among the 30 pre-season candidates listed for the 2000-01 Naismith College 8ask-etball Player of the Year Award presented by the Atlanta Tipoff Club. 
Riley, the first player in Notre Dame women's bas­ketball history to earn Associated Press first-team Alf-America honors, led the Irish in scoring and rebounding for the second straight season as She aver­aged 16.2 points and 7.J rebounds. The t,Yo-timc Big East Defensive Player of the Year was one of 15 finalists for rhe Naismith Award a year ago. 
Ratay, the 2000 Big East Rookie of the Year and an AP honorable mention. All­American selection as a freshman, was Notre Dame's second-leading scorer and rebounder a year ago as she averaged 14.0 points and 5.0 rebounds. She set the Notre Dame single-season three-point field goal percentage mark as she converted on .480 percentage. 
The women's Naismith Award was first presented in 1983 and honors the out­standing college basketball player in the United States. 
The preseason candidates listed in alphabetical order are: Svetlana Abrosimova (Connecticut), Chantelle Anderson (Vanderbilt), LaQuanda Barksdale (North Carolina), Lucienne Berthieu (Old Dominion), Sue Bird (Connecticut), Juana Brown (North Carolina), Niesha Butler (Georgia Tech), Tamika Catchings (Tennessee), Camille Cooper (Purdue). Katie Douglas (Purdue). Marie Ferdinand (Lousiana State). Deanna Jackson (Alabama), Schuye Larue (Virginia). Tawana McDonald (Georgia), Coco Miller (Georgia), Kelly Miller (Georgia), Deanna Nolan (Georgia), Plentte Pierson (Texas Tech), Tasha Pointer (Rutgers), Shea Ralph (Connecticut), Sameka Randall (Tennessee), Alicia Ratay (Notre Dame). Ruth Riley (Notre Dame), Kelly Schumacher (Connecticut), Georgia Schweitzer (Duke), Michelle Snow (Tennessee), Jackie Stiles (Southwest Missouri St.}, Tammy Sutton­Brow n (Rutgers}, LaToya Thomas (Mississippi State) and Shaquitta Williams (Oregon). 


. Murphy chosen as the No. 2 candidate 
Special to The Observer 
NOTRE DAME, Ind. 

Notre Dame junior forward Troy Murphy is listed as the second-leading vote-getter behind Duke University's Shane Battier for the 2000-01 Naismith College Basketball Player of the Year Award pre­sented by the Atlanta Tipoff Club. Murphy, the reign­ing Big East Player of the Year, averaged 22.7 points and 10.3 rebounds a year ago. He was the first play­er in league history to lead the conference in both scoring and rebounding in the same season and was the only player nationally to rank in the top 10 in both categories. A first-team consensus All­Amcrican, Murphy finished 10th in scoring and ninth in rebounding. 
Murphy also is listed as one of the leading presea­son candidates for the John R. Wooden Award. 
The Naismith Award, now in its 33rd year, honors the outstanding college basketball player in the United States. 
The prescason candidates listed in alphabetical order are: Shane Battier (Duke), Lonny Baxter (Maryland), Charlie Bell (Michigan State). Carlos Boozer (Duke). Cory Bradford (Illinois), Eric Chenowith (Kansas), Jarron Collins (Stanford), Juan Dixon (Maryland), Joe Forte (North Carolina}, Jason Gardner (Arizona), Tony Harris (Tennessee}, Udonis Haslem {Florida), Brendan Haywood (North Carolina), Casey Jacobson (Stanford), Richard Jefferson (Arizona}, Joe Johnson (Arkansas), Ken Johnson (Ohio State). Kaspars Kambala (UNLV), Jason Kapono (UCLA). Mike Kelley (Wisconsin), Terence Morris (Maryland), Troy Murphy (Notre Dame}, Tayshaun Prince (Kentucky}, Kenny Satterfield (Cincinnati), Brian Scalabrine (Southern California), Jamaal Tinsley (Iowa State), Jason \Villiams (Duke), Loren Woods (Arizona). Michael Wright (Arizona) and Vincent Yarbrough (Tennessee). 
Interested in "running your own business" in a challenging, fast-paced environment with unlimited growth opportunities? Target headquarters is hiring entry-level Business Analyst Ex­ecutives for our corporate offices in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
Welcome to Target~ one of the country's fastest-growing retailers. 
Target recruiters are visiting the University of Notre Dame! Please check us out while we are on campus! 
• Join Target executives Cathy David (ND '85), Dave Gerton (Target team member) and Mary Irene Slatt (ND '99) for the Target Prenight Presentation on October 25th from 7:30-8:30 p.m. in the Alumni Senior Club -a casual presentation on the specifics of the Business Analyst in Merchandising position -treats and prizes. 
• Join Target executives Cathy David (ND '85), Dave Gerton (Target team member) and Mary Irene Slatt (ND '99) for interviews on Oct. 26th in the Career Center, Interview Center in Flanner Hall. Sign-up via the Notre Dame website! 
We-had great success at the University of Notre Dame last year. Matt Funk (ND '99) began his career as a Business Analyst at Target in January. Andrea Klee (ND '00), Melissa Gaydos (ND '00) and Kara Hoadley (NO '00) started in September as Busi­ness Analysts. EOE 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 27, 2000 
MLB 

Ordaz singles in the ninth to give Royals a victory 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Luis Ordaz hit a game-winning single in the ninth inning as the Kansas City Royals rallied from four runs down to beat the Detroit Tigers 7-6 Tuesday night. 
Johnny Damon led olfthe ninth with a triple down the right-field line ofT Willie Blair {I 0-6). Ordaz, inserted as a defensive replace­

... 
ment in the eighth inning, then singled in the winning run. 
Ricky Bottalico (9-6) pitched the last two outs or the Detroit ninth for the win. 
Deivi Cruz, Bobby Iligginson and Dean Palmer homered for the Tigers. who led 5-1 in the fifth inning before being undone by poor defense. 
The Huyals scored three unearned runs with help from three Detroit errors to tie the game. 
Carlos Beltran hit a two-run single in the sixth to cut the Tigers' lead to 5-3. One of those runs wa·s also unearned, after Billy McMillon misplayed Dye's single to right. 
The Royals tied it in the sev­enth. Detroit starter Brian Moehlcr left afler issuing back­to-back walks to open the inning. First baseman I !al Morris threw Johnny Damon's sacrilice bunt away at third. allowing one run to score. Dave McCarty then tied it with a sacrifice 11y. 
After Cruz homered in the eighth to give the Tigers a o-5 lead, the Royals tied it in the bot­tom half. 
Phillies 10, Cubs 4 
Omar Daal avoided becoming the major league's first 20-game loser in 20 years. 
With Brian Kingman, the last 20-game loser in the majors, watching Daal's second straight start, Daal hit a two-out, two-run double in the second inning as the Philadelphia Phillies beat the Chicago Cubs. 
Daal (4-19) had been 0-7 in eight starts since defeating San Diego on Aug. 8. Ile had been scheduled to start Sunday's sea­son finale at Florida, but said after Tuesday's game that a sore 
knee would prevent him from 
pitching against the Marlins. 
Sammy Sosa started for the 
first time in a week for the Cubs 
and made an error in the first 
inning when he overran Doug 
Glanville's single. Sosa, the 
majors' home run leader with 50, 
had been sidelined with a muscle 
strain in his lower back. He went 
l-for-4. 
Kingman. 46. llew in from Los 
Angeles for Tuesday's game, 
bought a $25 ticket in Section 
120 behind home plate and 
cheered for Daal to win. 
"I want to remain the last 20­
game loser. I enjoy it for some 
strange reason," said Kingman, 
who went 8-20 in 1980 for the 
Oakland Athletics. "I suffered a 
lot that year." 
Kingman also was in the seats 
last Thursday in Philadelphia 
when Daal pitched against the 
New York Mets and didn't get a 
decision. 
"If it goes as for as Florida, I'll 
be there," Kingman said before 
the game. 
Brewers 7, Reds 4 
Jeromy Burnitz homered and doubled, and Jamey Wright won for the first time in two months as the Milwaukee Brewers began their final series at County Stadium by beating the Cincinnati Reds. 
Wright (7-8) allowed four runs -three earned -and eight hits in 7 1-3 innings to win for the first time in 11 starts since July 
28. Curtis Leskanic got four outs for his 12th save in 13 chances. 
Hurnitz hit his 30th home run in the second inning, joining Gorman Thomas (1978-80) as the only Brewers to reach 30 homers in three straight seasons. 
The Brewers, who moved into County Stadium in 1970 after leaving Seattle, will play next season in Miller Park. 
Marlins 5, Expos 4 
Cliff Floyd singled in the win­ning run in the 10th inning to lead the Florida Marlins over Montreal. extending the Expos' losing streak to four games. 
Luis Castillo walked against Steve Kline (1-5) leading o!T the 
The Univcnity ofNotre Dame Department of Music Guest Artist Series prc5ents the 


Ying Quartet 
Sunday, October 1, 2000 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum 
Tickets Required: $3 students • $6 seniors • $8 ND/SMC employees• $10 general admission Tickers available ar rhe Lafortune Box Office, (219) 631-8128 
For compl<1c information, visir http:llwww.nd.edu/-co~gocn< or call (219) 631-6201 

10th. took third on Mark Kotsay's bloop single to right center and scored on Floyd ·s soft single between first and second. 
Antonio Alfonseca (5-6) pitched a perfect 10th for the win. The game drew just 8,538. 
Florida's Hyan Dempster struck out seven in seven innings. raising his total to 206, one more than the previous team record set by Kevin Brown in 1997. 
Alex Gonzalez's three-run homer put Florida ahead in the second, but Vladimir Guerrero hit a two-run homer in the fourth. The 452-foot drive into the left-field upper deck was his 44th of the season, extending his team record. 
Orlando CabrPra's two-run sin­gle gave Montreal a 4-3 lead in the s.ixth, but Florida tied it in the bottom half whrn Floyd singled and scored on Mike Lowell's two­out double, running through third-base coach Fredi Gonzalez's stop sign. 
Braves 7, Mets 1 
The Atlanta Braves clinched the NL East to win their record ninth straight division title, beat­ing the New York Mets behind John Burkett's pitching and Chipper Jones' home run. 
With John Rocker back at Shea Stadium -and dodging a beer bottle on the mound -Atlanta prevented the Mets from wrap­ping up the wild card spot. 
New York would be assured of that berth. however, if both Arizona and Los Angeles lost later in the evening. 
A chilly, damp night robbed Shea of the playoff atmosphere that usually surrounds the Braves-Mets rivalry. The crowd of 48,270 had little to cheer other than Edgardo Alfonzo's home run, and started booing the home team during a sloppy seventh inning. . 
Hocker drew loud jeers when he came running out of the 
Rraves bullpen to relieve in the eighth. A beer bottle landed about 10 feet from him as he prepared to warm up, and police quickly appeared to have the man who threw it in custody in the first-base box scats. 
Hocker retired Robin Ventura on a routine fly to end the inning, looked at the crowd without emotion as he walked off and smiled for his teammates in the dugout. Hoc.ker finished up in the ninth. 
The Braves. who celebrated only as if it were another regu­lar-season win, begin the playoffs on either Oct. 3 or Oct. 4 against either St. Louis or San Francisco. The only sign that this one meant more was when Atlanta rdievers ran out of' the bullpen to join teammates on the infield. 
Atlanta won the NL West from 1991-93 and, after a strike wiped out the end of the 1994 sHason, has won six consecutive NL East championships. 


While TIAA-CREF 
invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance like this. 
· TIAA-CREF has delivered impressive results like these ,:iit•: .by combining two disciplined investment strategies. CREF 'GROWTH ACCOUNT3 1 ; ..~; . In our CREF Growth Account, one of many CREF vari­26.70% 27.87% 26.60%,able annuities, we combine active management with J enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have 1YEAR 5 YEARS SINCE INCEPTION AS OF 6/30/00 6/30/00 4/29/94two ways to seek out performance opportunities­f ... helping to make your investments work twice as hard. This approach also allows Combine this team approach with our low expensesEXPENSE RATIO us to adapt our investments and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from CW GROWTH INDUSTRY to different market the competition. Call and find out how TIAA-CREF ACCOUNT AVERAGE conditions, which is can work for you today and tomorrow. 0.32%! 2.09%2 especially important during volatile economic times  
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.s~ii  1.800.842.2776 www. tiaa-cref. org  
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. 1. TIAA-CREF expenses reflect the waiver of aportion of the Funds' investment management fees, guaranteed until July 1, 2003. 2. Source: Morningstar, Inc. 6/30/00, tracking 939 average large-cap growth annuity funds. 3. Due to current market volatility, our securiues products' performance today may be less than shown above. The investment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate. so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemption. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component. mutual funds and tuition savings agreements • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company. FSB provides trust seryices. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03  

page 17

Wednesday, September 27, 2000 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
This Week in Campus Ministry 

Monday-Friday, September 25-29 l 03 Hesburgh Library Sign-up, Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #63 (Nov. 3-5, 2000) 
September 25-0ctober 30 l 03 Hesburgh Library Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 (Nov. 3-4, 2000) 
Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Keough, Howard, Dillon, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, Sorin 
Tuesday, September 26, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, September 26, 9:00 p.m. Corby Hall 
Information Session on Holy Cross Priests and Brothers 
Wednesday. September 27, 7:30 i;,.m. Center for Social Concerns Coffee House 
Holy Cross Mission Coachella Seminar Information Session 
Wednesday. September 27, l 0:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel ~ f.lEW LOCATIOW! ! 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Thursday, September 28, 9:00 p.m. Center for Social Concerns Coffee House 
Holy Cross Mission Coachella Seminar Information Session 
Friday-Sunday, September 29-0ctober l Fatima Retreat Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #62 
Sunday, October l, l :30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Robert Pelton, csc 
Sunday, October 1, l 0:00 p.m. Log Chapel 
Rejoice! Mass A Celebration of the Canonization of Blessed Katharine Mary Drexel and Blessed Josephine Bakhita Presider: Rev. Tom Bednar, csc Voices of Faith Gospel Choir 
Sunday. October l. 4:00 p.m. Holy Cross Hill Sophomore Class Mass Presider: Rev. Ted Hesburgh, csc Music by the Celebration Choir 

0.M.EU5 
tvlNlSTRY 
112 Sadin Hall 631-5242 103 Hesburgh library 631-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu web www.nd.edu/~ ministry 
March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center 

Join ud in cefebralin9 
the Canonization of 
.. 

Blessed Katharine Mary Drexel and Blessed Josephine Bakhita 


PreJiJer: f:?ev. Jom /JeJnar, cJc 
Voice:, o/J-ailk {Jo:1pe/ C/wir 


Holy Cross mission Coachella Seminar 
in California-January 2-9, 2001 
Please come join us! Informational meetings: 
Wednesday, Sept. 27 7:30pm @CSC, and Thursday, Sept. 28 9:00pm @CSC. 
Sophomore Class Mass 
Co~e rejoice wi+h Father Hesf,urgh, +he Ce(ef,ra+ion Choir, and vour friends. 
C(att of 2003 Matt 
Sundav, Octof,er 1 e 'I-I>~ Ho(v Cross HiU 

I 
Big News
~ 

ln1erfai1h Chris an Ni9h1 Prayer 

EYery Wednesday-@ IO p.m.
lnteMilli tiMWI 

fea1urlln9 the Celebratllon Chollr
ffl)ght [!J.tv_yer ALL ARE WELCOME 
000 SYDNEY 2000 000
"'\. J! 
··~·· 

page 20 Wednesday, September 27, 2000 
TRACK 

Runyan, Halllilton advance in 1500-meter Oly01pic race 

Associated Press 
SYDNEY, Australia 
Marla Hunyan. the first U.S. paralympian to reach the Olympics, passed her tirst test at the Sydney Games by advancing oul of the qualifying round or the women's 1.500 meters Wednesday (Tuesday night EDT). 
Bunyan, who is legally blind, was joint>d in the semifinals by 
compalriot  Suzy  Favor  
llamilton.  But  Shayne  
Culpepper, a  late replacement  

for the ailing Regina Jacobs, was eliminated. 
In other action on a wet track Wednesday, American Chris llul'flns was fastest in thP 100 meters as the men began the decathlon. Heavy overnight rain had dissipated by the start of' the events, but the track remained slick. 
Hunyan, who has an incur­able retina condition called Stargardt's Disease that has reduced the middle of her eye­sight, qualified by placing sev­enth in her heat in 4 minutes, I0.83 seconds. 
"Visually there were no excuses and no problems, except the finish was very crowded," Hunyan said. "The track was l'ine. It was great running in this stadium in front of this crowd." 
Itunyan missed sixth place in her heat by a hundredth of' a second, meaning she did not automatically qualify for the semifinals but had to wait to learn whether she had a good enough time to qualify. 
"Did I make it? That's all I want to know. The first two laps were very slow. Maybe I shouldn't have let that hap­pen," Hunyan said before find­ing out she indeed had quali­fied. 
Favor llamilton, who also had to overcome major obstacles to reach Sydney, won her heat in 
4:08.08. She had Achilles· ten­don surgery last year and also had to deal with the suicide of' her brother. To remember him, she has resumed using her maiden name -Favor -in competition. 
Bunyan and Favor llamilton still face a daunting task in the 1,500. No American woman has won an Olympic medal at that distance. 
Culpepper was ninth in her heat in 4:12.52. She got a spot in the event when Jacobs, among the favorites in the ·1 .500, withdrew because of a respiratory ailment. 

l luf'lins' time of' 10.48 seconds in the decathlon 100 meters gave him 980 points and the lead after one event of the two­day competition. U.S. teammate Tom Pappas was seventh and Kip Janvrin was 31st among the 38 competitors. 
All three Americans won their heats in the lirst round of' the men's 200. Floyd Heard, John Capel and Coby Miller ­running with a U.S. flag painted on his forehead -easily quali­fied for the second round latPr in the dav. 
Ato Boldon, silver medalist in the I00 last weekend, won his heat in 20.52 seconds. lie is the pre-race favorite, since Michael Johnson and Maurice Greene were injured in the 200-meter final at the U.S. trials and failed to qualify in that event. 
GYMNASTICS 
Blunders make 2000 'wackiest' meet in history 
haven't seen one weirder than "I've never seen anything aged to repair. Andreea feels like," said 
Associated Press 
this." Almost without notice, Comaneci, the last Romanian
like it, even at a little,
For instance, consider the Raducan, the 4-foot-10 champion. "I don't know SYDNEY, Australia Short Vault Caper. local meet. It's bizarre, is Homanian darling, made it what's going to happen to the
Part tragedy, part comedy, 

Eighteen gymnasts blundered through the flawed vault doctor. I wouldn't want to be in 
what it is." 

all mystery. the Sydney Games their way through a series of unscathed and went on to win his shoes. We feel bad for him,
will be remembered for the 
vaults in the women's all­the gold. too." 
wackiest gymnastics meet in Kathy Kelly 
around that looked more like She won the meet, but her Haducan appealed to the 
history. 
junior high stuff than the mark U.S. women's gymnastics troubles were still to come. Court of Arbitration for Sport,
Bela Karolyi sat in the 

of true Olympians. Almost all of program coordinator Five days later, the IOC a last-ditch effort to get her stands. but was still the focal them figured it was nerves, jit­stripped her medal, saying a gold medal back. A hearing
point for an American team 
ters or pressure taking its toll. doctor had prescribed her a was scheduled for Wednesday. 
that flopped. A doctor pre­
Not until half the gymnasts American champion Elise Hay's common, over-the-counter cold In the meantime, Homanian scribed two cold pills that cost 
were through did Australia's two awful vaults after a medicine containing the national television reportedHomanian pixie Andreea 
Allana Slater question some­wretched warmup jump. banned substance pscu­that Homania had returned its Ha.ducan one or her two gold thing everyone takes fur grant­'Tve never seen anything like doephedrine. other two women's all-around medals. An equipment man set ed -the way the apparatus is it, even at a little, local meet," The IOC conceded the sub­medals in protest. But Franklin the vault too low, and turned 
set up. U.S. women's program coordi­stance had no effect on Servan-Schreiber, spokesmanthe women's all-around into a 
"She said, 'That doesn't look nator Kathy Kelly said. "It's Raducan other than to cure a for the International Olympic
dangerous exhibition with a 
right.'" Aussie coach Peggy bizarre, is what it is." · bug that was going around on Committee, said Wednesdaydubious result. 
Liddick said. "We're usually All the gymnasts were given the llomanian team. But drugs (Tuesday night EDT) that the 
It all made Hussian diva 

like, 'Yeah, shut up and get the option of going over. but are a big issue at this year's medals have not been returned 
Svetlana Khorkina and her 
back in line.' But she was right Khorkina declined. The games, and rules must be fol­yet.
wild mood swings seem tran­this time." favorite's night ruined by the lowed. Haducan was tlrn first Finally, there were the quil. 
The vault was set 5 c<>ntinrn­vault, she also fell off the gymnast to have a medal Americans, shut out of men's "It was strange," said Nadia ters -1.97 inches -too low. uneven bars. She finished the stripped and the doctor is more and women's medals for the Comancci, who took her sport Suddenly, there wNe cxplana• meet in tears and in 11th place or less out of a job through first time since 1972. And onlyto a new level with hl\r seven tions for Khorkina's crash­N her delicate psyche and her 2004. four years after the Anwrican 
perfect Hls in l 97(). "I sum 
landing on her knees and place in the standings too dam-"I can't imagine what women won gold, no lnss. 

Wednesday, September 27, 2000 
The Obrerver . SYDNEY 2000 page 21 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
U.S. team defends time-killing strategy used in Olympics 
Associa1ed Pn,ss 
SYDNEY, Australia 

Growing up, future North Carolina graduate Kristine Lilly would watch basketball coach Dean Smith's infamously disliked stall tactic known as the "four corners." Little did Lilly know that one day she would experience firsthand just how unpopular such time­wasting can be. 
Lilly and the rest of the usu­ally adored U.S. women's soc­cer team have been booed off the field twice at these Olympics for killing the clock in the final minutes with a one­goal lead. The jeers were espe­cially loud at the end of 
Professor James T. Cushing 
Department of Physics 
James T. Cushing, Professor in 
the Department of Physics, will 
show how traditional aspects of 
art, such as elegance, beauty 
and the use of imagery are also 
essential ingredients in the 
construction and elaboration 
of scientific theories. 
Thursday, September 28, 2000 
4:15 pm 
20th Century Gallery The Snite Museum of Art 
All events are free and open to the public. Call 631. 5466 for further information. 

All New; AU Yours: All Free 
MadAdz


Sunday's 1-0 semifinal victory over Brazil, a win that put the 
U.S. team in Thursday's gold medal game against Norway. 
"We've heard from the crowd that ft's not one of their favorite things to watch," Lilly said. "But in the last minutes it has helped us. It may not be the pre.ttiest thing, but it's part of the tactics." 
In Smith's four corners. four players would stand in a big square and p·Jay catch with Phil Ford. The monotonous maneuver was chiefly respon­sible for the introduction of tlrn shot clock to college basketball in the mid-1980s. 
The soccer version could he called "one corner," with Cindy Parlow playing Ford's role. 
"We've heardfrom the crowd that it's not one of their favorite things to watch, but in the last minutes it has helped us. It may not be the pretti­est thing, but it's part of the tactics." 
Kristine Lilly 
U.S. women's soccer player 
Called off the bench as a sub­stitute late in a one-goal game. Parlow will take the ball into the corner at the other team"s end of the field and stand there with her back to net. When players from the other team challenge her, she shuffies the ball from foot to foot and even­tually deflects it off one of their legs and out of bounds, giving the U.S. team a throw-in. 

The throw-in then goes to Parlow. Repeat the above. A few fans leave. Some probably fall asleep. Mo::;t of them boo and whistle. Loudly. 
The architect of the strategy is coach April Heinrichs, another North Carolina gradu­ate. 
"In the past our team would have whacked that ball into the penalty box," Heinrichs said. "The goalkeeper would catch it, run to the front of the 18 (yard box) and punt it 70 yards, and that's certainly not something we want to face." 
ft makes sense. It works. It's within the rules. But few soc­cer fans have seen it before, and foreign journalists unfa­miliar with American "stall ball" have grilled Heinrichs over what they sec as some­thing approaching a blasphemy to the world's most popular game. 
"What you saw in the last five minutes is an intelligent, 
2000-2001 Season Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
oodnighl 
<j)R-4clenw.na 
(Good Morning 
;Juliet) 
by Anne-Marie MacDonald 
A comedy of alchemic proportions 
Directed by Wendy Arons 
Wednesday, Oct. 4 ...... 7:30 pm Thursday, Oct. 5 .......... 7:30 pm Friday, Oct. 6 .............. 7:30 pm Saturday,. Oct. 7 .......... 7:30 pm Sunday, October 8 ...... 2:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $9 • Seniors $8 • Students $6 Tickets are available at LaFortune Student Center ncket Office. For MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128 

tactical application of a game plan," Heinrichs said after the Brazil game. "It's smart. it's thoughtful soccer. That it was frustrating to the Brazilian players, I und.erstand. I was an athlete, and I can totally feel the frustration. It's the equiva­lent of the four-corner offense in basketball when you're up by 10 points with five minutes left." 
Heinrichs, who has never had her team actually practice the clock-killing formation, praises her players for having the discipline to go against their instincts by not advancing the ball toward the net. The centerpiece -er, corner-piece -of it all admits it's harder than it looks. 
"It's difficult for us to do," said Parlow. who actually is the team's leading scorer this year. "Because we love to attack the goal and we love to get shots on goal and we love to score. so it is a little bit of a change in our mentality. But it's a very-tactical move. It kind of takes the wind out of the other team's sails. We put them 120 yards away from our goal. It's very hard to score from there." 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 27, 2000 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


ERNESTO LACAYO/The Obse,ver Nebraska quarterback Eric Crouch, pictured here playing against Notre Dame, has missed two straight practilces after being banged up in the win over Iowa. 
Crouch to return for Big 12 opener 
Associated Pras 
LINCOLN. Neb. 
Nebraska quarterback Eric Crouch missed his second straight practice Tuesday. but was expected to return in time for Saturday's Big 12 opener against Missouri. 
Crouch said he was banged up in the No. 1 Cornhuskers' 42-13 win over Iowa on Saturday, when he threw five touchdown passes and ran for 93 yards on 12 carries. He did not dress for practice Tuesday, but didn't appear to have any trouble moving. 
"I'm not hurt. It's just the fact that the game was a phys­ical game and that I came out of there with a few bumps and bruises pretty much all over." Crouch said. ··1 feel pretty good right now. so it's not a case where it"s anything serious." 
Coach Frank Solich said Crouch was expected to return Wednesday. 
"It's a lillle bit of a concern right now. But I think definite­
Hou,a,ee'lora-11:t: 
J. BR HOI\l':IES 
121.0 C•dar St. S39fl.lJ'\Jl"th 
2 DR »:01\-U!:S 
13317 Fren.nH'.11l S!1!50 n..tth 
3 DR.1--:llO~E.S 
3:Z0.3 SMrr.H S!5~0. Mu, . &.R.H<>~ES 1706 TAYLC>R S.575/1\,-'lth 1 SH. A.PTS -J\,USH..,.,.AKA 31 . W_.la -SlOOIVVk 
1-1100-.3:28-7368 A Dh,i•ion of' Culver Development 

ly we'd like to get him back The co-offensive player of the out there tomorrow if he's year in the Big 12 last season healthy enough to do it." leads Nebraska with six rush­Solich said. ing touchdowns and six more 
A lot is riding on Crouch's passing. He is the Huskers' health for the 3-0 Huskers. only experienced quarterback. 
OLYMPICS 

Fernandez pitches to U.S. gold 01edal 
Associated Press 

BLACKTOWN, Australia 
She shrugged off the rain that had left her shiny black hair a wet, tangled mess and soaked her blue uniform to the skin. 
She ignored the damp chill in the air and the brown pud­dles that had formed in the infield. The "Star-Spangled Banner" was playing and all 
U.S. softball player Lisa Fernandez cared about was singing along. 
It was a special moment for Fernandez. and not just because of the gold medal around her neck. 
Fernandez's father came to the United 
States from 

"To be able to hear the 
game. We
Cuba. where 

national anthem and would not
he had been 
be denied. 

in prison, just know I fought for this 
"I can't
before the 

country the best way I 
tell you the
Bay or Pigs 

know how, which is on support 1
invasion in 

got from
1961, a the softball field. It's a 
my team,
refugee seek­

real emotional time. " 
especially
ing a new 

during this
start. When 

game. They 
Lisa Fernandez
Fernandez 

just said 
sang about U.S. Olympic softball player 
keep light-
the "land of the free," she knew just what those words meant to him. 
"He comes over here and provides for his family and here I was able to represent the country that gave him and my family the opportunity to be free," said Fernandez, who pitched the United States to a 2-1 victory over Japan in the gold medal game Tuesday. 
"There is no dictatorship," she said. her voice breaking as she fought to keep her composure. "To be able to hear the national anthem and know I fought for this country the best way I know how, which is on the softball field. It's a real emotional time." 
And fight she did. Through eight tough innings in the most pressure-packed situa­tion possible. Through a tour­
=-~--y, .1,!{_, 

nament in which her team's resolve was tested after losing three straight games in the preliminary round. Through the five straight victories that followed and brought her team its second consecutive Olympic gold medal. . 
fernandez had pitched a full seven innings in a 1-0 vic­tory over Australia the previ­ous night. Less than 24 hours later, she was back at it. She didn't have her best stuff and surrendered an early home run. But Fernandez outlasted her opponent once more. 
"It was a fight for me in this game from the first inning," she said. "I felt this team was going lo light as hard as we could to win this 
ing. keep 
fighting. We're going to get you a run. Stay with us." 

Fernandez walked the third batter she faced and gave up a leadoff single in the second inning, eventually stranding the runner at third. After Japan went down in order in the third, the first batter in the fourth, Reika Utsugi. timed a changcup perfectly and lined the ball to straight­away center. 
Center fielder Laura Berg backpedaled and leaped, but the ball sailed over her glove and cleared the chain-link fence. Japan led 1-0 and the Americans didn't even have a hit. 
'Tm out there for a reason," Berg said. 'Tve got to find a way to catch that ball. I felt I owed Lisa one." 
. . • 

"fflnQ)ig ts. 
eglate Olympic Medal Race is onJ tally With the GE College Medal 
~·9"•Y on f!IElCQlympics.com.
-... ~ ?. _;.,fl!<,• . ­

----·-------------------------------------, 
Football 
continued from page 28 
Lo Vecchio remained relaxed during his collegiate debut. 
MI just blocked the crowd out and did what f had to do on the field," said Lovecchio. 
In addition to Godsey and LoVecchio, Davie is also look­ing at Clark -a first-team all-state quarterback from Florida. 
"Jared Clark, if he really comes on strong, will put himself in a position to get more snaps," sajd Davie. "But I don't want to waste snaps for a guy I don't know .is going to play in a game." 
Also in the mix is Holiday, whose athleticism tempts Davie. Holiday is unlikely to play, however. because Davie is hesitant to use up a year of eligibility. 
"You know, if it was the ninth or tenth game of the year I would say 'no,' sitting here right now." said Davie of Holiday's chances ofseeing the field this season. "I don't think it would be fair to him, particularly because his freshman year,· he was thrown in there before I think he was ready to be thrown in LoVecchio, Clark and Holiday are all competing for the same spot -and likely will continue t.o compete for the next four seasons -there appears to be little animosity amongst the young quarter­backs. 
there. So  I would  not  do  
that."  
Despite  the  fact  that  

"Jared and Carlyle, they're right behi~d me. They're two great quarterbacks," said Lovecchio. "I knew ahead of time that they were gonna take other quarterbacks. It turns out that we got a lot. It's fun to go out all together and compete with each other and learn together. I think it's all making us better players." 
With all the young quarter­backs, talk inevitably turns 1.o the possibility of at least one transferring -as did Zak Kustok in 1998 when he was buried behind Jarious Jackson, then-freshman Rattle and Eric Chappell. Lovecchio claims that such thoughts are the furthest thing from the quarterbacks' minds, as they are focused on learning the offense and com­peting. 
"We get along great. We have a lot of fun together. I don't know what's going 1.o happen in the future with any one of us," he said. "I really try not to worry about any­thing. I just try to take things one step at a time. You really can't look too far down in the future." 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
Manning puts in strong performance in Colts' win over Jaguars 
fun,'' Manning said Tuesday. from his security blankets -But that's certainly what the think he already has lived up to 
Associated Press 
"Last night didn't really feel Marvin Harrison and Edgerrin Colts envisioned when they that potential." like 440 yards, we were just James, who combined for more made Manning the top overall As the Colts record book
INDIANAPOLIS 

into the flow." than 52 percent of the Colts' pick in the 1998 NFL draft. attests.
For two seasons, Peyton 
It was the way Manning suc­receptions in 1999. His development has come Already, Manning has turnedManning has shown that he's 
ceeded, rather than the stats, This time, Manning scanned more rapidly than most young in the two best single-season
one of the best young quarter­that created the chorus of ado­the field and delivered the ball quarterbacks. numbers for attempts, comple­backs in the NFL. On Monday 
ration the day after his sensa­to whomever was open -Of the seven quarterbacks tions and yardage. He ranksnight, Manning delivered 
tional performance on national Terrence Wilkins. Ken Dilger. selected in the first round since second in touchdown passes
another message: He's ready 
television. Jerome Pathon or Marcus 1998, only Manning has started with 26, a number he'sfor prime time. 
"He was really into it mental­Pollard. Four players caught every game of his career. And achieved twice, and that is just
Manning completed 23 of 46 
passes for a franchise-record ly," Colts coach Jim Mora said. touchdowns, just as it was dia­only Manning has reached the six off the Colts' record set by 440 yards and a career-high "l think the extra days off grammed. Pro Bowl. Unitas in 1959. This season, four touchdowns in the helped us. But he was really "Last night was one of those "I think he's a guy with a Manning is on pace to set that Indianapolis Colts' 43-14 victo­sharp. [Quarterback coach] games where I was seeing tremendous amount of poten­mark, too. ry over the Jacksonville Bruce Arians said in talking to things pretty clearly," Manning tial, and he lives up to it," tack­But while some think the dif­Jaguars. [Manning} on the phone that he said. "( never felt I forced the le Tarik Glenn said. "When you ference is an increase in 
"When you're kind of in the was really on top of things. ball. I never really felt I threw a say that he's a good young Manning's arm strength, mix with a record that's compa­That's the best he's ever been." bad ball. It's not always like player, I think you're saying he Manning believes the difference rable to Johnny Unitas. that's Manning managed to go away that." has a lot of potential, and I is merely maturity. 
HOMES FOR RENT 
2001-2002 SCHOOL YEAR 
-Domus Properties has 4,5,6,7,8 and 10 bedroom houses available -Student 11eighborhoods close to campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 

Available for the 2001-2002 School Year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 8 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219) 274-1501 or (219) 234-2436 or (219) 674-2572 
HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP! 
Student Activities has immediate openings for the following student em lo ee ositions: 
LaFortune Building Managers Building Set Up Crew Sound Technicians 24 Hour Lounge Monitors 

,----------------------------------------------~----. --~----­
~ --~--· 
. 

page 24 The Observer . SYDNEY 2000 Wednesday, September 27, 2000 
WOMEN'S TRACK 
Runyan overcomes sight problem to compete in Sydney 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY. Australia 

Marla Runyan is roaming around the cafeteria in the Olympic athletes· village with a plastic tray and silverware, hunting for broccoli. She finds a veggie that looks right, only to discover she's filled her plate with spinach. 
Such everyday chores are dif­ficult for Runyan, who is legally blind. Operating her cellphone in Sydney is a major undertak­ing, as is reading her watch. 
But running is not tough at 

a.II. In fact, she does il so natu­rally -and so well -that she was in the field when the first round of the women's 1.500 meters was contested Wednesday (Tuesday 
night EDT}. "Running on the track is 
lot of types of 
Hunyun 
one ofthe things I can do visual aids to 

placed sev­get through
well. Jjust don't see it as

enth in her 
day-to-day

first-round being a barrier. I have a life ... heat in 4 min­sense ofstrength on the Bunyan first 
utes, 10.83 
had trouble
track that in other areas

seconds and 
with her eyes

qualified for ofmy life I don't have." 
in the fourth 

the semifinals grade, when on Thursday. she couldn't
Marla Runyan 
Runyan has read the
Olympic runner

an incurable 
retina condi­tion called Stargardt's Disease that has reduc<\d the middle of her eye­sight. Though she can use peripheral vision for activities such as running, other com­petitors appear to her as streaks of color. 
Hunyan won four events at the I992 Paral.ympics and is the first U.S. paralympian to make the Olympics. She insists her restricted vision is no handicap when she's compet­ing -even though she can't read the lap clock during a race. 
"Running on the track is one of the things I can do well. l just don't see it as being a bar­rier. I have a sense of strength on the track that in other areas of my life I don't have," says Runyan. who can't decipher opponents' race numbers but recognizes them by body shape or hairstyle. 
..I have a very good sense of' moving around in a pack of runners," she says. "I just feel I have a really good sense of people's mechanics moving next to me." 
Some routine tasks away from the track arc much more difficult. Such as finding her green vegetable of choice. Or figuring out how to use her cellphone, a task that con­sumed 2 1/2 hours. Or reading her watch. 
"l don't know why I even wear it, but I guess I want to look like everybody else," she says. "It's just day-to-day life things that are ha.rd. l use a 
blackboard. 
The condition has degenerated to the point that Hunyan now has 20°300 vision in her lef't eye and 20­400 in her right eye. 
But that has never stopped her from playing sports. She competed in gymnastics and soccer until she couldn't see the ball any longer. She switched to track. excelling as a high jumper in high school and as a heptathlete at San Diego State. 
"I struggled in the class­room," she says. "Everything was very laborious. When l went outside and played sports, I felt as if I could do us well as everyone else." 
Arter winning the 100, 200, 400 and long jump at the 1992 Paralympics, and the pen­

"Fighting Irish Spec!al" 
Sunday-Monday..Tuesday-Wednesday 5:00 -7:00 PM 
LARGE CHEESE PIZZA 
$5.55 
N.otre Dame, !$aint~ ,Wary/s_: 
271-1177 271-7272 Monday-Thursday 11 am • 1 am Friday-Saturday 11 am • 3 am Sunday Noon -1 am 
"The most popular # on c_an,pus11J 

tathlon at the 1996 Paralympics, she was 10th in the 1996 U.S. Olympic trials heptathlon. Then she turned exclusively to middle-distance running. 
She moved to Eugene, Ore .. where some of the world's best runners train, but was side-
Join Replay: 
The club that rewords your love of entertoinment:­
Ask associole for de1cils. , 
lined f'or two years l;,y a series of injuries. Runyan was teach­ing aerobics to senior citizens at a YMCA, earning $7 an hour. before beginning her comeback -winning the 1,500 at the Pan American Games last year. ·and finishing 10th in that event at the 1999 world championships. 


She injured tendons in her left leg while jumping out of the way of a child on a bicycle this June, and nearly had to pull out of the U.S. Olympic tri­als. But she fought through pain and finished third at the trials. claiming a spot for Sydney. 

MEDI.PLAY" 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. MediaPlay.com"' 
Cass::es~~~ Sale ends October 7, 2000. Pricing may YGry online. 8257?0 5286 
CROSS C.OUNTRY 
Saint Mary's hosts first Ineet in history, finishes seventh 
By MOLLY McVOY Saine Mary's Editor 
For the first time in the team's short history, the Saint Mary's cross-country team hosted a home meet, the MIAA Jamboree, on Saturday. 
"I think it went really well. especially for the first meet at Saint Mary's," said freshman Erin Thayer, the Belles' second place finisher. "J thought there was a lot of support from the students and staff." 
Although Saint Mary's finished seventh in the meet, head coach Dave Barstis was pleased with the team's performance overall. 
"I thought we had a fantastic race for the first race we ever hosted," Barstis said. ''I'm very pleased with how the team ran." 
Junior Casey Kinsella was the top finisher for the Belles, finish­ing 71st with a time of 22:04.4. Barstis was particularly impressed with Kinsella's perfor­mance on Saturday. This was Kinsella's first competition because of an early-season injury. 
"Casey had an excellent race, especially for her first race of the 
"/ thought we had a fantastic race for the first race we ever hosted. " 
Dave Barstis head cross country coach 
season," Barstis said. 
In addition to Thayer and Kinsella, Megan Tenney, Cecelia Oleck and Jessica Millanes were the top finishers for the Belles. 
Although Barstis was generally satisfied with this weekend's race, he is looking to improve on 

/ ,5~7 
_·."Are you highly motivated and looking for an opportunity ·. · to work with an outstanding company? Please join us. 

. . 
Signature Graphics, Inc. is the nation's largest and • Representatives will be fastest growing graphic design, manufacturer and on hand to discuss all installation firm specializing in fleet media advertising. 

aspects of a career in ~ 
with Signature Graphics, Inc. r.JnltJ-c!fi,. • Thursday, September 28, 6-8 p.m. -Foster Roo (Lafortune Student Center) -Refreshments will be seroed 
r7~~ 
Friday, October 6 -Career Cente 
Please contact the Career Center to Sign Up for lnteroiew~ 
~9 ·. Q Conta:t Jennifer Williamsd~ 
at 219/926.4994 or 1.800/356.323"5_ 

Saint Mary's pack running abili­ty. Last season, the Belles' trade­mark was the top five finishers crossing the finish line nearly together. Barsits would like to continue that trend this season. 
"I really would like to see our one-five split drop to below 30 seconds," he said. 
In order to accomplish this Saint Mary's has been doing both distance and sprint work­outs in this week's practices. Thayer feels the training is going to make it possible for the team to break the 30-second mark. 
"I think doing the speed work­outs will make the difference," Thayer said. 
Saint Mary's faces Earlham College this weekend in a non­conference meet and. hopes, in addition to tightening the pack, to drop their times. 
"I just want everyone to improve on their times from this weekend," Barstis said. 
Thayer agreed that looking to place higher is not what the team is aiming for, but, _simply improving. 
"Hopefully I can get a better time and that's all I'm aiming for," Thayer said. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Clemson returns to Top Ten rankings 
Associated Press 
CLEMSON, S.C. 

Clemson is back in the Top 10 for the first time in nine years. Now, coach Tommy Bowden says the No. 7 Tigers must prove they deserve that ranking. 
History isn't on their side, 
Wanna START 
something? 

-
Eaton Corporation. Who? We're a high-tech, $8.4 billion global manufacturer of highly engineered products. Get out! We're looking for exceptional graduates to join our ranks. Hey! That's me! Visit us online. You're online? Sweet! Or join us on campus. We're interviewing select candidates. That's me •.. again! Candidates attracted by a fast-paced business environment. I love it! 


Are you challenged by a competitive work atmosphere, where teamwork is essential and the best idea wins? I'm there! Then register with career services for an on-campus interview. First in line, man. We look forward to discussing your professional vision as o potential Eaton associate. I can't wait! Go ahead. Start something with the best company you know nothing about. Try and stop me. 
For more information or to apply online, go to www.eatonjobs.com, then check with your Campus Career Services Office. 
The BEST company you know nothing about. 
Bowden says. Not only have 
the Tigers (4-0, 2-0 Atlantic 
Coast Conference) failed to 
achieve a Top 25 finish in the 
past seven years, their next 
opponent is Duke, which has a 
habit of upsetting Clemson. 
"I don't know if it's turned 
around," Bowden said of 
Clemson's fortune. "At the end 
of the season, I think our 
ran king will determine 
whether it's turned around or 
not. 

"Seven straight years 
Clemson hasn't finished in the 
Top 25. That's the next step, 
and we haven't taken that 
step yet. We sit here at 4-0 ­
4-7 is not very impressive." 
However, the Tigers have 
been impressive so far this 
season. Clemson leads the 
nation in total offense (510.8 
yards) and scoring defense 
(5.5 points) and has never trailed in the second half. 
"We're playing real well," 
offensive tackle T.J. Watkins 
said. "The coaches are mak­
ing great play-call decisions, 
the quarterback is making 
good decisions on the field, 
the running backs are finding 
the holes, the defense is play­
ing great and giving us good 
field position." 
Quarterback Woodrow Dantzler has been equally impressive. Clemson has kicked off a nationwide cam­paign to promote Dantzler. who leads the ACC in rushing and is ranked third in the nation in pass efficiency, for the Ileisrnan Trophy. 
However, even with Dantzler, the Tigers aren't guaranteed to be successful. Duke (0-4, 0-1) has won three of the last five meetings in Durham, N.C., including an upset of then-No. 7 Clemson on Sept. 30. 1989 -a loss that dropped the Tigers from the Top 10. 
"We have to raise our stan­dards,·• Watkins said. "We have to practice like a Top 10 • team. Everyone's going to bring their 'A' game on us, and we have to prepare for that, prepare for everybody's best game." 
r-------------------------------------------­
page 26 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 27, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Saint Mary's battles to 3-1 loss against Calvin· 

By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports \X'riter 
Ir you asked the players, they wouldn't count this as a loss. 
But the scoreboard told a different story. putting the Belles below the Calvin Knights, 3-1 Tuesday. 
"The score might not reflect it, but this is the best game we have played all season," junior midfielder Adrian Kirby said. "And that is something in itself." 
Discount livo minutes in the first half, and the score may have gone the other way. 
After coming out with great guns in the opening minutes, the Belles allowed a breakaway by Larissa Onderlindel to result in the first score 15 minutes into the game. Onderlindel was assisted by Tricia Dyk, who leads the Knights in poinlr, this season. Then Calvin got a penal­ty kick, which resulted in another goal less than a minute later. That was scored by Stephanie Fritz of the Knights. Four minutes later, Calvin got a second breakaway, and Tara Bergsma put tho Knights up 3-0 in the joust with the Belles. 
"The first half we had it for the first couple minutes," Jessica Klink said. "Then we let down, and I'm not sure why." 
The second half was a different story altogether. In the opening sec­
. onds of that half, Stephanie Artnak took a direct penalty kick on Calvin goalie Heather Vugt, and put it high and into the net. 
"The second half', we were very 
dominant," Klink said. "Once again 
Stephanie pulled through on the 
penalty kick." 
Artnak now has three goals, all 
from penalty kicks, to lead the team 
in scoring. 
The second half' was played mostly 
in the Calvin zone. 
As he did in the win against Adrian, Belles head coach Jason Miligan pulled Tia Kapphahn, the starter in net for the Belles, to send her in at forward and freshman goalie Laura Metzger to the net with 14 minutes to go. With tho action mostly at the other end of the field as the Belles prnssured the Calvin goalie to at least pull the tic, Metzger didn't have much work to do. 
''I didn't know how extremely awesome our defense was until I was in net." Metzger said. "They were taking care of'me out there." 
Kapphahn made 13 saves, and the defense took care of the rest. NI in all, Calvin had 25 shots on the Belles' defense, while the Belles took 10 shots and Knights netminder Vugt made eight saves. 
"The second half, I thought we played really well in general," Klink said. 
Heather Muth led the Belles with three shots on goal, while Artnak was second with two, including her goal. Lynn Taylor, Katie Green, Patricia Wheat, and Shawna Jiannoni each got off a shot against Calvin. 
Saint Mary's Counseling & Career Development Center and JobDirect.com Present 
JOBDRIVE 2000 
Sept. 27th 4:30pm to 7pm on Saint Mary•s Library Green 
Get registered with lobDirect.com Saint Mary•s JobDirect 
• Post resume online D • Apply for jobs via email 
• View off-campus, part-time 
and career jobs 
• Prizes
==-E\:_1 
~-;i ­



What's the saddest thing on earth? A teacher who thinks they're funny. 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2000 57 See 17-Across
ACROSS 26 Like some 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS groups or clubs. 000 Rice, e.g.: Abbr. 
sandwich bags 62 Jr. and sr. DAY: A Martinez, Randy Bachman, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
28 Work of 1606 Meat Loaf, Shaun Cassidy, Wilford Romantic relationships will end as
63 Goofed

5 Category under Brimley, Mike Schmidt, Jayne quickly as they began. Try to be 
"race," maybe 30 Urgent request 64 Photographer 
honest with yourself about your31 Ph.D. hurdles Arbus Happy Birthday: You are tuned position. It is best not to make waves Meadows 
10 "That's gross!" 
32 Northeastern 65 Port vessel in and eager to help. You are able to at work. Gossip will get you into 
13 Book with trouble. 000
Indians predetermine what needs to be done 
66 Roll-tops

legends LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll
35 Word after to achieve success. You will not shy
67 Historic caravel 

15 Russell of away from the obstacles that stand in be in the limelight at group meet­
going or flat 

your way. Instead, you will meet ings. Your ideas are solid, and the
"Gladiator" 
36 See 1?-Across 

DOWN such setbacks head-on with dignity other members will be willing to 16 Second 37 Cold, to and a positive power. Your numbers: help you put them into motion.
1 Detroit org. 

Amendment Conchita 17, 20, 29, 31, 37, 43 Don't f~l guilty for doing things you rights grp. 41 Truffles et al. 2 Mathematician's ARIES (March 21-April 19): enjoy.0000number Make some arrangements to spend SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A
17 With 36-and 42 Creature under 
3 Elba, e.g., to the day with your emotional partner. jealous rage may cause your mate to
57-Across, an a bridge 
Renovations will turn out as back away from you. Try to stay
Napoleon

old dramatist's 43 Mr. Munster, of calm and keep in mind that you can't 
planned. You will be in a do-it­

motto? 60'sTV 4 Like some yourself mood, so much can be force someone to stay with you if his manufacturing or her heart is somewhere else. 00
19 It's measured in 47 Work of 1604 accomplished.000 MB costs TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 'flus SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
49 Did 

21): Pleasure trips will be fun, but 20 Pupils' 52 End of a your partner. You should look over realize that tney will cost more than 
5 Publisher Adolph is not the day to put demands on 
6 Feller's targets surroundings blackmail letter 

legal documents and make sure you you bargained for. Your tendency to 
7 Simple 

have all your papers in order. You overspend and gamble will cause
21 Buzzing with 53 Sherpa's home basketball game 
can make money ifyou invest wisely. problems with your partner. 000 8 Farm female 
excitement 54 Brinks 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
0000

23 Light into 56 Nutrition inits. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Older Sudden good fortune can be yours if
9 Some Realtors' 

you take a chance. Deal with govern­relatives may try to cause problems
deals 

ment agencies or any red tape youfor you and your mate. Be adamant
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Get ready to 

when dealing with those who wish have hanging over your head. Be W A L L 5 shower Puzzle by David Levinson WIik to meddle in your personal affairs. secretive about your personal life. A V O 11 Objects of You need to stick up for the one you 0000
34 Of the hipbone: 46 Elton John's 58 Maximilian's 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
quests love. 00
Prefix longtime label realm: Abbr. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your mate will be disappointed if
A L E A 1--1~-12 Work of 1604
5 36 Polly, to Tom 48 Duds 59 "Love Story" Don't be too quick to agree to pend­you have been too busy to spend MSWE 14 One thing after 37 "Wheel of composer ing settlements. You need to look at time with him or her. Try to plan 
another Fortune" bonus 50 Tinker's target Francis the situation objectively. Ask a good activities that will allow you to bring .-+--+----+---1 18 Fightlike a friend for advice. Make purchases for your partner along. 000
51 The "10" in "10" 

knight 38 Craps play 60 Writer Beattie your home that will bring comfort. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your 
ability to encourage your colleagues
39 Social problems 55 Cold war foe 61 "_, verily'' 000
22 Dickens cry LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can will enhance your reputation and 
40 Facial tissue 

23 Boy with a bow expect to have difficulties with put you in a good position when it 
additive 

comes to evaluation time at work.
~...,t,-=+:+:-1 24 F.D.R.'s mother Answers to any three clues in this puzzle those you live with. Make plans to 
41 Didn't serve well be out as much as possible. You Your creative approach will be 
i.;..;.,1~~111111,.;.+~.;4 25 Improvise, in a are available by touch-tone phone: 

should be an active member in inspiring. 00000
42 Screw feature
R way 1-900-420-5656 (95ft per minute). 

D A 27 Brother of Seth 43 Work of 1599 Annual subscriptions are available for the Birthday Baby: You are a great observer. You learn quickly and will S T U ,-;+.;.+;~ E P 29 Axed 44 Curved bench best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 always be able to rely on your instincts to get you through. You are kind, compassionate and understanding. . , _ .
G Y P ....;J....;J..-1.-D D S 33 Tractor-trailer 45 Meal years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugema s Web sites at astroadv1ce.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) © 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
HAVE 'l'OU EVER NOTICED How MANY RETIRED PEOPLE ARE AT THE MALL? 
LOITERtNC", ON BENCHES•.. THAT TALKING To EACH OTHER••. THEY HAVE I SWEAR, SoME oF THEM NOTHING PRACTICALLY UVE HERE. MoRE 
TYLERTOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

BILL AMEND 
THAT I HAVE To WAIT SO YEARS FoR M'f TURN. You'RE 
PRETTY
~ 

SAD ALREADY. 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
--.. ------­

Saint Mary's soccer puts up a fight 
Belles Jall 3-1 to Knights in best-played game of the season.
PORTS 
page 26 

O
THE page 28 BSERVER Wednesday, September 27, 2000 

VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary's struggles for second win in 2000 season 

Observer SlalT Report 
Notching victories is getting a little easier for the Saint Mary's volleyball team. 
But it doesn't come easy. 
Tuesday's victory against Albion College may have sent cheers reverberating off the walls ot' Angela Athletic Facility. but it didn't come without struggles. With the weight of a 1-11 season weigh­ing against them, the team refused to be satisfied with one victory for the season. In a team me~ting Monday night. they knew that they had to put the pieces together if they were going to notch more than one win. 
"Yesterday during practice we sat down our team and expressed our goals and frus­trations," said junior cu-cap­tain and blocker Jolie LeBeau. "We realized that everyone has to play 100 percent as a person so that we can play 100 percent as a team." 
And while the Belles found ways to put it together in the first match. soundly defeating Albion 15-10, they began to slip in the second and third matches. behind 1-2 going into the fourth match. 
But they weren't going to let it get to them. 
"Even though we lost those two, we were still having fun," LeBeau said. "The first game was definitely motivational. We went into the fourth match and we knew that was our chance. We weren't scared ... we just knew we had to play our best." 
Securing a victory in the fourth, the Helles forced Albion into rally play for the f'ifth game. While both teams scrambled to return the ball, the Belles secured their court and managed to squeak by 15­13. 
But then again, they had his­tory on their side. 
"The four years that we have been playing here, we have not won yet,·• said Albion head coach Darrell Sedersten. "We struggled and will continue to struggle. We always find a way to shoot ourselves in the foot." 
For the Belles, the win was assurance that their team struggles could be overconw. 
"W!wt won this game for our team was that each person played their position 100 per­cent," LeBeau said. "And that made our team come togeth­er." 
The Belles were led by LeBeau, who notched 12 kills, one block assist, and two solo blocks. Senior Victoria Butcko had 16 digs in the win. Freshman hitter/setter Leigh Ann Matesich had 18 kills. two aces. and 20 digs. 
We played better as a team overall," said_Matesich. "We started tu gel together more." 
"It was a well timed much needed win," said Saint Mary's Coach Julie Schroeder-Bick. "Lesser teams would have given up; they showed what they were made of." 
The Belles next face-off Sunday at Alma College. 
Staff writer Alicia Ortiz con­tributed to this report. 

FOOTBALL 
Irish quarterback position open for many possibilities 
today and we took a long look LoVecchio's composure and Lovecchio ran little option in 16 passes f'or 11 7 yards and 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
at Matt LoVecchio, as well as running ability. high school, yet feels the two TDs in a 35-9 1998 stale 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Gary Godsey and Jared Clark," "I think just the threat of the coaching staff has prepared title win over three-time 
said Davie after practice option -when Matt LoVecchio him well for adding the dimen­defending state champion St. 
Following a loss to Michigan Tuesday. "We looked at all came in, you saw Matt almost sion of speed to his game. Joseph. Additionally, the 18­State in which sophomore three of those guys and I am broke one calling option," said "Coach Rogers gets the quar, year-old attended Notre Gary Godsey completed only going to wait until I talk to Davie. "But we just have to terbacks prepared to run the Dame's summer football camp four passes for 20 yards, it Kevin [RogersIafter practice." become more productive, plays we're gonna run in the during the summer of 1999. appears True freshman LoVccchio doing it in the framework of game," said LoVecchio. ''I'm "He's been coached real that the rotated with Godsey during the our style of coaches and our always trying to get better and well," said Davie. "He's played quarter­second half Saturday and com­style of offense." improve." in some big games in high back posi­pleted his only pass attempt to After his strong perfor­Lovecchio brings big game school, State Championship tion for the Javin 1/unter for 43 yards. mance, Lovecchio has earned experience to the Irish offense games; he won a Stale Irish is a LoVecchio also rushed the ball the opportunity to Lake more -experience that perhaps Championship. I think we were wide open four times for 21 yards, rcpititions in practice. elevated him above fellow always pleased his perfor­race. including a 12 yard scramble "Matt Lovecchio has already freshmen Jared Clark and mance, as far as his personali­
"We did on second-and-11 for a 12-played in a game, so obviously Carlyle floliday on the depth ty and how he took control of a lot of dif­yard first down to end the he will get a lot of snaps," said chart. While a j un.ior at things." ferent third quarter. ~avie.,, "Same with Gary Bergen Catholic in New Jersey, things Davie was impressed both by (.odscy. Lovecchio completed eight of 
sec FOOTBALLpage 23 


=====-=--=---=---=--=-----=-----_-_-:_-_-_-_:-==-::~=====-=======================================================================================-========== 
at Albion vs. Villanova
SPORTS 

Today, 12 noon Friday, 7 p.m. 
Golf
ATA 

at Hope College vs. St:ton Hall vs. Pittsburgh Saturday, tba 
Friday, 5:30 p m. Friday, 7:30 p.m 
GLANCE 







