
Marketplace Massacre 
Reach Out 
Violence continues in Algeria, where 
Student responds to the University's 

Friday

at least I 2 were killed when gunmen 
denial ofrecognition to the gay and lesbian 

openedfire in a marketplace 
group. 

APRIL 14,
Viewpoint . page 11

WorldNation . page 5 
2000 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXlll N0.122 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

. As 2000 tryouts approach, mascot reflects on past year and wearing the green 
By ERIN PIROUTEK Associate News Editor 
He's Mr. Notre Dame. The green suit fits like a glove. Everything about Mike Brown screams leprechaun. 
While one would guess that Brown has always dreamed of the Golden Dome, Notre Dame only became his future during his senior year in high school. Brown, a Wisconsin native, thought he'd attend Marquette or the University of Wisconsin. 
But destiny stepped in. A Notre Dame alum realized that Brown was a football player pulling a 3.8 G.P.A and encouraged him to consider Notre Dame. 
"I went with my heart, it was ND," said Brown. His heart was on the mark. 
"I made the right decision," he said. 
He also made the right decision when he decided to try out for Notre Dame's mascot, the varsity leprechaun. 
"My roommates were the main influ­ence," said Brown. They'd noticed Brown's enthusiasm at football games was a little above the averaged crazed Irish fan. 
"I went nuts," he admits. He was usually too busy watching the games to notice the leprechaun, but his 
see BROWN/page 4 
SMC 
•

increases enrollment 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Class of 2004 is on its way to becoming the largest fresh­man class in at least the last three years, according to projected statistics. 
"The enrollment for Fall 2000 includes 435 first vear students and 50 tran.sfer students," said Mary Pat Nolan, director of / Admissions for Saint Mary's said. "I have a very positive feeling about how this class is coming together." 
At this point in the appli­cation process, the amount of incoming applications is up three percent from last year, and roughly 20 per­cent from two years ago. The increase in application submissions is due in part to the College's decision to increase overall enrollment as part of the five-year Master Plan. 
According to the plan, Saint Mary's will increase overall enrollment over the next five years until the stu­dent body numbers about 1700 to 1750 women. 
"Our ultimate goal is to have a freshman class of 450 by 2005," Nolan said. The increase in applications is also due to Saint Mary's agressive recruitment on the national and interna­tional levels. 
see ADMISSION/page 6 



AIDS Memorial Quilt chapter, display comes to Michiana 
By KATE STEER Associate News E<liwr 
Imagine an area as big as 25 foot­ball fields. Imagine walking through that space and taking in a small pince of thf1 liv<'S of 42,960 people. 
This is the number of people rep­resented by the AIDS Memorial Quilt, which was started in 1987 by the NAMES Project Foundation. 
The project was conceived by friends and family of those who had died of AIDS. As a way to remember those lost, the project grew rapidly in recognition and so did the quilt. The first time the quilt was displayed in October of 1987, it contained 1,920 names and covered an area less than the size of a football field. Today, the entire display does not fit on the Capitol Mall in Washington, D.C. 
One of the panels honors the mem­ory of Jeff Goode, a South Bend native who died from AIDS in March 1995, But Goode's memory lives on in more ways than this. Nardis Goode, Jeff's sister, is an AIDS activist in the Michiana community. Sh1\ helped her brother through his eleven-year battle with the disease and now works to raise awareness and promote prewmtion. 
Goode works closely with other activists, like John Roxy, to establish responsibility and education. Roxy is currently working to establish a local chapter of the NAMES Project. 
Hoxy·s goal of involving the com­munity to rontribute panels from the area to the project stems from a desire to encourage awareness and a coming together. 
see QUILT/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, April 14, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

No skills, no hope 
Bookstore Basketball is as full of its own traditions as the University itsPlf. This is lhfc' stc>ry of a young tradition begun in the hal­lowed halls of Grace, in bygone days when l lotnl Grace I1969-1996] was open for busi­ness and not the haven to 
University offiois it has beeome. It's a tradition not of obscene names or ath­letic superiority. but one of dedicated individuals who realized their special lack of gift and made the best of it. 
It's the spring of 1 ()96, 


and five men of section 9-C 
A.J. Boyd
realize tlrn.t they've got no 

game. None whatsoever. Not only can't they shoot Associate and score. they can barely Viewpoint 
dribble. and wouldn't know Editor 
a zone from a jumpshot if 
their lives depended on it. 

So, tired of b.:>ing ridiculed for their inability to find the free throw line, Brian .Johnsen, 
Brian Hamilton. Tim McConnville, Joe 
Marchal and \1ih Kinning<:r form Team No 
Skills. 

Living up to their name and all expectations, Team No Skills lost resoundingly that first year, but not without a stunning display of creative plays and antics. Oppornmts were l1abbergasted by the Matador Defense, which met the offense with a row of nag waving players yelling "Ole!" The Sit-Down Offense unnerved defenders when four of the five reclined on their side of the court leaving the fifth to take the ball to the basket. Most famous of all is the imp,metrablc Amoebae Offense, in which the ball bearing player is surrounded by an amorphous human chain of his teammates, unassailable until ready to sl1oot (fortunately, rarely scoring). 
After a year in which the skills of the team were so pathetic that they forgot to register for the tournament. No Skills returned with new blood in '98 as Still No Skills, wowing officials by adding captain Steve Desch, who, because of high school basketball experience, was limited to shooting from half court. Two sophomores from the new section in Keough were recruited as well. One qualified by being debilitated enough to need the aid of a shille­lagh to walk, the otlrnr submitted three years of church league basketball without ever sink­ing a basket as evidence of a total lack of skill. 
In '99 the team returned as J\:o Skills III: The Search For Desch (who had wondered off to graduate schnol). With what can only be explained as poor coaching and a lack of vision, the team won not one but two Bookstore games before finally being elimi­nated, 21-10. 
This year, No Skills (Episode) IV: A No Hope enters the fray with new plays and dazzling freshmen recruits. While keeping much of the classic playbook. new ones borrowed from the obvious Star Wars theme have been added to vex the opposition. Recruits have been care­fully instructed to avoid practicing or other­wise engaging in athletic events all semester, priming them for a spectacular loss. 
No Skills IV (Brian Johnsen, Liam Thidemann, Adam Harvey, Devon "Meat" McShane, and yours truly) is playing Five Guys Who Can Penetrate But Not Score tonight at 6:15 on the Lyons Courts. Don't miss it: it'll to be the worst display of athleti­cism in the entire tournament. I guarantee it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Kare Sreer  Amanda Grecco  
Maribel Morey  Graphics  
Nicole Haddad  Kris Forchier  
Sports  Production  
Noah Amsradrer  Lauren Berrigan  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Angela Campos  

The Observer (USPS 59'1 2-40110) i, published Mo"day through frrday rxccpt duri,,g ex,1n1 and vacation period.s. The Observrr is a member of the Assoclated Pres!.. All n::producrion rights are reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Paulks: In love and out of homosexuality  Security holds information on intruder  
Wednesday, April 15, 1998  Wednesday, April 13, 1977  
Five years before meeting each other. John and Anne  Security was unwilling to release information on the man  
Paulk decided to change thf'ir homosf'xual life-styles.  who entered several of the rooms in Farley and asked girls  
They met each othrr at Exodus International. tlrn nation's  to srarch brmeath their beds l'or "pieces of a woman's  
oldest organizntion !wiping men  and womnn  ovPrcome  body," said Jean Lenz, Parley redress.  Kathleen Kelly. one  
their homosexual dcsirPs. The Paulks came to Nolre  oftlw victims, was told by security that "South lfond polir.c  
Dame to share their stories and transformation.  llappily  had no jurisdiction over campus matters-." No statements  
married, they are now raising their son, Timmy.  had been taken by security from her or the other girls.  

OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Arizona building evacuated after bomb threat 
TUCSON, Ariz. tho building and the hike racks on 
University of Arizona police evac­
the premisPs. uated the economics building "They lthe professors] said, give Wednesday afLer au unidentified us your papers and go," said Tim male called in a bomb threat O'Brien, a political sriencc junior. 
At 12:50 p.m., the University of "I just want to get my bike." Arizona Police Department Once the campus police had fin­rrceived a call on a non-911 linr ished searching the building and from a male who said that a bomb the time had expired on thn threat, would go off in about ;30 minutes in the building was reopc1wcl at 1:35 the Economics building, said UAPD p.m. and everyo1w was allowed to Sgt. Mike Smith. leave before the alarm was return, though many instructors 
By 1 p.m., university police had tripped," said Tanya Diffic, a com­had already let thoir students 
begun evacuating Lhc building, munications graduate student. who leave. · forcing numerous students out of was giving a lecture to lrnr class Smith would not speculate on class and to the Past side of' tlw during the nvacuation. whether this threat was a "copy street by the University of Arizona At 1 :15 p.m., univnrsity police cat" of the ebola scam on March Bookstore. officnrs pulled the !'ire alarm and 31, but said that the University ol' 
Some classes were in the middle began a cursory search of' the Arizona police department is famil­of lectures and tests when the building to determine whether iar with tlrnse threats. evacuation started. there was a bomb. "We haV() had tlrnse types oI' "There was a guy in my class who No one besides tlrnsc university things bn!'orn," Smith said. said the cops were asking people~ to police officers were allowed near "Nothing happened, fortunately." 
UC regent discourages protest 
BEHKELEY, Calif. 

In a move that angered some students, University of California regent William Bagley Wednesday said upper-level politics -not student protests -were the key to his drive to overturn the university's ban on affirmative action. Bagley came to Boalt Jlall School of Law as part of his campaign to drum up support for a reversal of SP-1 and SP-2 -the 1995 UC Board of Regents measures that ended the use of race and gender prnfercnces in state hiring and admissions decisions. Wednesday's event marked the first time Bagley plugged his campaign in front of UC students. Provoking anger from some audience members, Bagley urged possible demonstrators in support of the issue to remain in the background. "Student demonstrations are worthless," Im said. "They arc counterproductive, my friends. We don't want that kind of activity again." Gov. Gray Davis, Bagley added, is one person who can be swayed only by politics, not demonstrations. "Davis is not anti­affirmative action," he said. "Yes, we need him, but you've got to motivate him and I think we can do it." 
Columbia U. stands firm with WRC 
NEWYOHK 
Despite threats from Nikt~ that it will cancel contracts with universities that join the Workers' Bights Consortium [WHCJ. Columbia is committed to the newly founded factory watchdog group. administrators said yesllirday. Nike recently informed Brown University that it was terminating their licensing agrncment due to the school's mmnbership in the WRC, an organization of' students, universities, and non-governmcmtal organiza­tions [NGOsl that oversees the monitoring ol' manuf'ar­turnrs of university-label apparel. Nike had been pro­viding Brown with hockey equipment. Columbia, which joined the WHC in March, does not have a licensing agreement with Nike, although Nike does provide some Columbia athletic teams with shoes and other apparel. Still, student activists said they were concerned that other corporations might follow Nike's lead. Director of business services Bob Moskovitz did not discount the possibility that one of Columbia's license(1s would decide to cancnl its contract, but he said tlw University would not rnconsider its membership in tlrn WHC because of such a decision. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWea1her8 foreca~! for daytime conditions an<l high 1emperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, April 14. 
Friday ~ .. 70 $7 Saturday ~ 71 48 Sunday ~ 65 48 Monday' Q 67 50 
............. 

~ 2000 AccuWeather, Inc COLO WARM STATIONARY
Tuesday ~ 71 52 

@'"'"'© .. IT::J.w. o 

., 
High Low Showen Rain T•1torms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl, Cl~~ Cloudy 
V1il' As.soc,,J/ed P.,ass 

4,~-~qQQ . Showets T•sforms Rain Flurries S/low fee Sunny Via Asso1:iarsr1 Press (;raphicsNet  ~ 6 Pt. Ctoudy Cloudy  Atlanla Baltimore Boston Chicago  65 61 59 75  57 53 47 59  Las Vegas Memphis Miami New York  75 74 80 56  54 59 74 48  Portland Rapid City St. Louis Tampa  58 47 53 31 77 48 76 · 66  
Houston  BO  63  Philadelphia  62  51  Wash DC  61  53  

Friday, April 14, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Former Saint Mary's professor, reformer, 
ND grad dies 
By KATIE McVOY News Writer 
A Saint Mary's legacy passed away this past Friday, leav­ing behind 2:i y1-1ars of stud,~nls, rnspP,d and change. 
Margaret Dineen, recently of Jacksonvillo, Fla., was a professor of business administration at Saint Mary's from 1967 until her rctirnment in 1990. 
Through the course of her years at the College sho watched tlw business dnpartment grow and change from a small dcpartnwnt that was primarily focused on secretari­al skills to Urn highly rnspnctcd program it is today. 
"Slw was prnsi!nt at thti creation of tho TWA." professor ol' busi1wss and administration Claude R,~nshaw said. "Sim had a lot of' input into that change." 
Dinnen arrivf'd at Saint Mary's shortly after receiving her MBA from Notrn Dame in the late '60s. At that time, tlrn departmPnt was small and course selections were lim­ited. 
Saint l\lary's offered dassns in typing and shorthand and other 11p1:11ssarv sncretarial skills. 
In l<J76, dtiµartment head Bill Schmuhl and the other mcmlwrs of his srnall d1ipartment. including Dineen. <'hang<•d Lim dnpartnwnt with thn crnation of the BBJ\, llarlrnlors of Business and Administration. 
i\.t that point. Ditrnen bi~gan to focus primarily on mar­keting classns, tPaching thn first group of Saint Mary's wonrnn to evnr rec1:ive a BBJ\. Dineen. who ran a very strict classroom, was highly respected by students and col­leagues alikn. 
"Stud<1nts had an enormous amount of respect for her," llnnshaw said. "Sh<' had an approach in the classroom that was vr.ry strict, but it malty created profossional womnn." 
Thn faculty also found lrnr to be a warm, caring person. 
"\Ylwn my wifo am! I mov1!d here, slm and her husband, ClarnrH·P. made us feel so welcome," Henshaw said. "She was a VPry gnnuinely gnncrous person." 
Dinl'Pn·s husband, Clarnncn DinePn. was also a member or Uw Saint Mary's farulty in the biology department for almost 2;i vp;us 
DiuP1m l1as thrnt! daughtnrs. Margot, Diane and Mary, and or1P son, .Jim. l!Pr husband still lives in Jacksonville wlwrP slw pass0d away, but her grave is in Cedar Grove at NotrP Danw. 
:y.--:? 
~~-.J 
NEWS ANALYSIS 

Prof: Award shows woinen's gains 
......... • c: C c:>.17>_p._,-1:e-r









~~e:;r;;; 
The Pascal Lectures • in Mathematics Series Presents: 
Dr. S. Brent Morr1s Monday April 17th 138 DeBartol 
7:30 M 

-I< 

Everyone Is Welcom Background Required 
New Dec 
of Cards with You Sponosored Bv Mu Aloha Theta & The Math DPo,:utmPnt 
• Role of women in science-related fields expanding 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
A new step was taken ror 
women in science when 
Darleanr, Hoffman, retired 
professor at the University of 
California, Berkeley, recently 
received the 2000 Priestly 
Award from the American 
Chemical Society. 
ThP award. established in 
1922, "recognizes distin­
guished service to chemistry." 
The first woman to receive 
the award was Mary Good in 
1997. Hoffman is the second 
woman to receive it. Good had 
concentrated in all three 
aspects of science, industrial, 
education and government, 
while Hoffman has spanned 
the areas education and gov­
ernment. Saint Mary's chem­
istry profossor Deborah 
McCarthy, feels the fact that 
two wornen have received the 
Priestly Award is a great 
breakthrough for women in 
the field of science. 
"The selection of these two 
highly qualified women is a 
confirmation that women have 
contributed significantly and 
will continue to contribute in 
the field of chemistry and sci­
ence in general at levds equal 
to men," said McCarthy. 
"They serve as beaeons for 
younger women to pursue 
careers in science without 
sacrifidng other important 
aspects of their lives." 
The recipient of the Priestly 
~ 

ff-. ...... 
• 

Award is given a gold medal which is designed to com­memorate the work of Joseph Priestly, along with a bronze replica at the annual Spring Awards Banquet. 
The recipient also delivers a Priestly Medal address at the time the award is given. 
In her Priestly Meda I address, Hoffman spoke of how far women have come in the past 50 years. A section of her speech was titled, "You've Como a Long Way, Baby," but Hoffman feels that women still have challenges to overcome in regards with societal views on raising a family and work­ing. 
Hoffman 
istry degrees are granted to women nationwide. Still, tbe percentage of women with their tenure professorships in chemistry departments remains low. 
"Now that our numbers have increased, women should take the initiative in proposing qualified womi:n for awards as well as for the cov--.ir eted appointments and man­agement positions in both uni­versity and industrial set­tings," Hoffman said in her speech. 
"We must also enlist the aid of our male colleagues in these endeavors. In the past, they have taken the 
reflected on "[These women] serve as lead in 
how far proposing
beacons for younger 
WO m C 11 us; now we have come women to pursue careers in women must 
since she science without sacrificing take a more 
graduated active role in
other important aspects of
from col­the process." lege. their lives." Presently, "Young McCarthy ·is women in the chair of
Deborah McCarthy
high school the subcom­

chemistry professor
were often mittee on 
discour­aged from entering the physi­cal sciences even though they had excelled in their previous mathematics and science co!lrses," she said in her speech. 
"All these things have changed dramatically, and manv of these issues are no lunger even items for disc-us­sion. We have, indeed, made tremendous strides." 
"But ... our gains in some areas are rather spotty and seem to be the exception rather than the rule. In 1983, I was the first -and so far 
onlv -woman to receive the 
ACS Award in Nucl1-iar 
Chemistry. This was also one 
of the first times that one of 
the scientific awards of the 
sor.iety bad gone to a 
woman," she continued. 
However. Hoffman thinks 
that today woman have an 
equal opportunity to become 
scientist. Fifty percent of sci­
ence and :n percent of chem­
"Recognition and Promotion of Women" in the Women Chemists Committee of the ACS. Her subcommittee's role is to have more women nominated and selected as award recipients for ACS administered awards. 
For women pursuing science at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, Good and llol'fman have set an example to follow, according to McCarthy. 
"We can hold these women as examples of "breakage of the glass ceiling" in the recog­nition of women's contribu­tions to the field. One woman recipient of the Priestly Medal might be a crack but two is a ma! break," she said. "We encourage our students to seek full lives including careers in chemistry in indus­try, government. and acade­mics. We state that their efforts will not go unrewarded along the way as well as at the end of their carePrs," said McCarthy. 

1 everyone.. 1t s me agam. 
just want to give a shout out to all the eople that are taking the MCATs tomorrow. So to Anne Marie, Brady, Emily, Mueller, Molly, Scooter 
and the rest... HAVE FUN! 
Ifgoo want to make friend:;. Join Ob:;erver Graphics .... 

,..Language 
The Ian '¼' ..,largest and most" pop. of rich literature, fas natural beauty and internatl ortunities 
Learn fast: Intensive cour Fulfill the languagejeqtiirement in 2 semesters 
Qualify for Kell~t-nstitute internship in Brazil Contact; Department of Rljn•u,wce Languages 
-----... --· 

---_____.L_.~--­
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 14, 2000 

Brown 
continued from page I 
friends were convincing and 
when spring tryouts came 
around. tw was among the 
candidates. 
"! said why not give it a 
shot." he said. 
Brown paused a moment 
when askcrl what it's likf1 to 
be the leprechaun. He sat 
back in his chair and his 
easy grin empt across his 

face. " "It's a humbling experi­
ence." he said. noting the 
n~sponslbility Lhat goes with 
1,vearing the grnen suit and 
repn\senting Not.re DamP. 
Tho leprncha.un has two 
jobs. said Brown. First. to 
cheer on the tcn.m and sec­
ond Lo keep the crowd enter­
tained. 
Ile makes the Energizer 
bunnv look lazy, running 
aroun·d the sidi,li;ms, leading 
cheers, doing pushups, lift­
ing chcPrlnad<•rs and brnwl­
ing with an occasional 
opposing mascot. 
Sonw days it's more dif'li­
cult than ;ithcrs. especiatly 
considering snveral less­
than-sti>llar Notl"e Damp 
performances last foll. 
Hut Brown has experience 
with adversity -he spent 
two years as tailback on an 
O'Neill football team that 
has yet to win a game. 
O'Neill played far superior 
teams. and morP often than 
not. Brown was pummeled 
the second he touched the 
ball. Rut he'd spring back 
up, with his unflappable 
grin, and get ready for the 
next play. 
"You go into every game 
thinking this could be our 
game," he said. That effort is 
apparent in each appear­
ance as tlrn leprechaun. 
The youngest generation of 
Notre Dame fans makes his 
role especially rewarding. 
'"The kids, they're fun. I 
see myself in their shoes," he 
said. "I trv to treat them like 
I'd want lt; bP treated." 
I-IP means what he says. 
It's not unusual to see a clus­
ter of children crowded 
around Brown. talking. 
laughing and just wanting to 
be part or the leprechaun 
magic. 
During one football game, 
Mike climbed into the stands 
near a little boy wearing a 
green suit icltrntical to his 
own. In min­
utes. Brown 

had the ''The thing about it is they found "junior IPp­
that you touch so t h e m ­
r e ch au n" 
selves 

leading the many people's lives." 
planning
crowd in a "go Irish" 

Mike Brown 
chant. 


leprechaun
Brown 
s m i I n d . remembi,ring the incident. 
"The thing about it is that ~ou t.?uch s_o many people's lives. he s;ud. 
Leprechaun is a 2-1 hour-a­day job. Brown never g-ocs through u day without hear­ing "lt,prechaun" at leasl 10 or 12 timl'!s. 
"Ev1•rywherc, it's 'Thrrc·s l\lih. TIH' ro 's the lr, p­rnchaun,"' lw said. 
llis fame domm't disappear when hP ll'avcs campus. !\nywhcrn in his Milwaukee hometown. l'rom the bank lo the grocNy store, odds arP that som11011e will recognize him as tlw lepr1\chann. 
"I wish I could introduc<' mvs!' lI' to sonrnone, and lh.Pj'd rPally not know my nanw," lw said. 


Mike Brown has enjoyed his year as the Notrn Dame leprechaun. Cheerleaders hoist Brown up for crowd-plm1sing pushups (above), and the hard work wears him out (right). Below. Brown hugs his aunt, Sharon Whitaker, aftor the Navy game. Shacale Whitaker enjoys watching her famous cousin. 


Still, he never regrets his decision. No one seems to be having more fun at games than Brown. 
'Tm just enjoying my time," he said. 
llis family is proud of Brown's identity as a lep­· rechaun. Suddenly 
"They 
their lives around N o t r e D a m e sporting events. 
went from not 

knowing anything to being some of the biggest Notre Dame fans," he said. 
llis entire family. from the 

oldest to t h " youngest, i s involved. 
" 1\1 y grand­mothl'r, slrn glues lrnrself to tlw t<'levi­sion when 
"Once I was out there it was so natural -out there having fun with the crowd." 
Mike Brown leprechaun 
tlw game is on." he said. And bis cousin, not cvnn two vnars old, knows tlw cheer ;,Co Irish" and says "Notre l),une" whnn slw S<H:s any f'ootlrn.11 ganw. 
photos by JOHN DAILY 

The NIT championship was his family's last chance to see him in action this year, but hn's not rnady to take off the green suit just yet. 
I le plans to try out again today, with slightly unusual circumstances. Before tlw tryouts Brown had a work­shop to pfoparn all tlrn would-be leprechauns. 
"I gotta show some of the candidates the ropes, tlrnn compote against thorn," he said. 
Brown remembers being in their shoes. Ilei was nervous at first, but it disappearnd once hn appeared in front of the crowd. I!is calm attitude is not surprising, sine/\ Brown soPms most at homo leading screaming Irish f'ans. 
"Onco I was out thr.rn it 
was so nat­ural -out Lherl' having fun with Urn crowd," lw said. 
No matlor what the future holds for Brown as a Manag,mwnt 

lnl'ormation Systf1ms major hoping to go into consulting, his tixperin11ce lwre has changi•d him forPVl'r 
''I'll Im a IHprnchaun l'or lifo." sa.id Brown. 




orld 



hiday, April 14, 2000 COMPILED FH0M THE OBSEllVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Court issues stay in Elian case 
MIAMI 

Elian (;onzal1•'l.'s gn•at-unde delir.d the gov­c rn mr n l Thursday and Lhr. government blinkPd. irtting its dr.,ulli1w to colkd thr. boy pass and agrP<'ing to a df'!ay th,tl av0rts a IH1,\'•('llfnrn•111PnL showdown l'or llO\\. In Uu[,, llavann. thousands rlwrrPd wildly al tlw 111'ws..\ttonwvs for Elian·s \1iami rr.latives rlainwd virtorv al'!Pr a l'r.dPral appeals court isstwd a stay 1-ilo('king anyonr. l'rorn taking 11w bov out of' thn counlrv. The Justicn DP[lartnwnt. though. said iL had agnicd to a ct,,tav of ..thrP<' or f'our days" Tlrn 11th U.S. Cirr~;it Court of' i\ppcals told the government 
1.0 n'sponcl to thP stay by 9::30 u.m. Friday, gi\·ing grn,tt-undP Lazaro Gonzalnz's family another day with Elian al the very least. t.azaro ··r1:l'ls rPlir>f. ·· rarnily spokesman Armando Cutit•JT<'Z said. "at !past until lomor­
rm\ morning. 
Venezuela elections spur tension 
CAHACAS 

PrPsidl'nt !I ugo ChavPz's main rhalif'nger in nPxl month ·s polls has rpfused to take part in a 1ww plan to includP opposition memlwrs 011 a panPI nwant Lo 1·nsurP fair <'IPctions. PrPsidPnlial randi<latP Francisco Arias C:ardPnas cal!Pd tlw governmenrs proposal a "joke" bnrnusn it donsn't give thP opposition a rnle on llw National lilnction Council. "I won't name somf!OllP to S<!rve on the National E!Prtion Council as a clown." said Arias, according to a campaign press rnlease issuPd Thursdav. J\rias·s comments came as tr.nsions ov1!r May 28 prPsid<mlial Plections intensilied with opposition politicians, Catholic Church leaders and n~tirPd military officials insisting fair balloting may not bP. possible because Chavez controls the electoral council. 
Bombs explode near Israeli settlement 
GAZA CITY. Gaza Strip 

Two small bombs exploded next to an Israeli militarv whiclc nPar an Israeli settlPment in tho Gaza Strip Thursday. Palestinian police said. There wen~ no injuries. Palestinian and Israeli sf'curity l'orrPs scarchf'd the area after the explosions near Lim setllement of Netzarim, an isolatPd lsraf'li Pndavfl southwest of Gaza Citv. said Abdel Hazek al-Majaideh, commander rif Palcistinian police in Gaza. The bombs exploded as Israelis wern gathering at the settlement for a ceremony. Israel radio reported. Gunshots WNP lir<\d at an Israeli military jeep escorting rivilian vnl1irlrs. said the radio report. Israeli fon:es returned lirn. Palestinians control most of' lhP Gaza Strip. bul Israeli soldiers patrol areas around Jnwish settlnment1>. 
lifkiiUiMiiWilt4


Dow AMEx: 
?26.79 

]ONES -IR08 
'.'lasd:iq:

-161.95 
ij 
3769.63 -286.27 
NYSE 
65.t.25 
-6.95 
S&P 500: 1467.17

11125.13 
-33.42 

VOLUME LEADERS 
('omposi1r \ olumc: 
18.596,%9,081 

TICKER  "i CHANCE  S CHANGE  PRICE  
CISCO SYSTEMS  csco  -7 .14  -S. oooc  65 ~00  
MIC-RO.SOFT CORP  MS!i'T  -S.:.Hi  -4.. HSO  79. 39  
COMP'IJW,.,R.E CORP  CPWII  -!I.0.49  -8. 1225  11,94  
SUN ii!lC'ROSYSTE.:M  SUNW  -tL9'  -7.8?50  80 .oo  
NASDJ\Q LOO StlAR 01'.Ar''LE CORP  QQQ ORCL  -; .-f;!J -~ .so  -5. 3.100 -(. 25~0  32.313 73.12  
iN'l'BL CORP MCI WORI.OCOM l'N  INTC WCOM  -6, 76 ·l.35  -8.8?00 -0.9'950  121.es H.ae  
JDS UNIP1--IA~E  J'O.SU  -5 .62  -S.'H7S  96.,U  
PEUL C'OMPUTER  DILU  _., .32  -t..057'5  Sl. 38  

ALGERIA 


Associated Press ALGIERS Twelve people were killed and six injured when gunmen opened fire on a market Thursday in the Algerian town of Attatba, 35 miles west of Algiers. residents of the town said. Residents said the attackers burst into the wholesale market early in the morning as vendors 

were setting up stands. The massacre, like most attacks. was not immedi­ately confirmed by offi­cials. 
It was the town's sec­ond episode of mass vio­lence in a month. On March 15, armed Islamic militants killed 11 people there. 
The North African coun­try has been gripped by an Islamic insurgency since 1992, when the army canceled elections that. the now-banned Islamic Salvation Front was poised to win. 
More than 100,000 peo­ple have been killed in the violence since then. 
In a bid to bring about national reconciliation, President Abdelaziz Bouteflika offered a peace plan that gave insurgents partial amnesty if they handed in their weapons by Jan. 13 and were not guilty of rape, murder or bombings. 
Despite the peace bid, attacks occur almost daily. 
A planned demonstra­tion in Algiers Thursday against Bouteflika's peace plan failed to materialize after tight security mea­sures discouraged pro­testers. Critics say the plan isn't working and accuse the government of leniency toward militants. 
RWANDA 

Congo rebels seek cease-fire agreement 
Associated Press KTGALI Fighting raged Thursdav bPtwcen Congolese rebels and the army or President Laurent Kabila. the insurgents said. on the eve a new cease-fire intended to sal­vage an August peace plan to end the 20-month war. The ·warring sides in Congo had agreed to observe the cease-fire as of midnight Friday to allow the deployment of 500 U.N. military observers and 5.000 troops to prnteet them. But the small staff of ll.N. 

monitors said it will bP dif­ficult to verify if tho guns fall silent. 
Kin-KiPy Mulurnba. a spokesman for the Rwandan-bar.ked rebels, said government troops and their Zimbabwean allies pounded rebel lines with artillery and small­arms fire at lkela and Dekest>, 4'.~5 miles east of the capital, Kinshasa. 
But authorities in the Congolese capital, Kinshasa, denied attacking rpbel positions and instead acr.used rebels of massing troops and heavy 11quip­ment around government positions in Equateur, East Kasai and Katanga provinces. 
An aide to Kabila, who spoke on condition or anonymity. said Congo is prnpan'ld to respPct thfl cease-fire, but would respond to any attack. 
In New York on Wednesday,.. the U.N. Security Counr:il welcomed the agreement that also calls for the 9-milc with­drawal n!" forces from thP.ir current positions. But U.N. officials said that under thP most optimistic scn­nario, it mav take until July before lirst troops are deployed within the 18­mile buffer zone. 
The new r.ease-fire agreement seeks to sal­vage the crumbling August peace deal that seeks to end the 20-month rebel­lion. Hwanda and Uganda. which back the rebels. and Zimbabwe, Angola and Namibia. which hack Kabila, also signed. 
But fighting has ptirsist­ed. threatening thP planned deplDyment or 
U.N. troops. 
Mulumba said that whiln the Hwandan-backi·d rebels will suspend fight­ing on Friday, their force:; will pull back only from four towns in northern and southern Congo. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 14, 2000 
Quilt 
continued from page 1 
"[The quilt! is something three-dimensional to say 'Ilcy, it's still here'," he said. "We use tho textile as a way of h('aling, educaLion and prevention so it will never happen again." 
The quilt's enormity is due to the near epidRmic proportions of the AIDS disease. According to the World IIP.alth Organization (WIIO), more than 33.(, million people worldwidA live with HIV or ,\IDS; 5.6 of' these becanrn infected in 1999. Despite tlmse overwhelming fig­ures, lhe quilt rcprnscnts only about 20 percent of U.S. /\IDS deaths. 
St. Joseph's coumy is the third highest in the statP in infection rates, Roxy said. 
Though the U.S. facus a grnw­ing in!fiction rute, thf' problPm is frtr worse in Africa, said Goode. 
"6,000 a dav die from Ams in Africa." she said. "trs a clailv holocaust." · 
Convorsely. EuropP has tlrn lowest infection ratPs, which Goode said is due to their mandatory Pducation. 
"Prevention is thr only way to stop it," she said. 
Hoxv and Good!' have ditforc>nt ideas·on Lhc best apµrouch to reducing the infection rates and preventing further loss. Roxy advocates abstinence, which is the only way to ensurP-that one 
"Prevention is the only not a quilt
does not con­tract the virus. way to stop [AIDS]." panel," he "Committed, said. loving relation­
Hoxv is
Nardis Goode 
holding meet­
ships work in 
AIDS activist ings to estab­
prevPntion," lw said. 
If abstinence is not feasible, Goode urges peo­ple to listen to the spcond part of Roxy's message: "You can have as many relationships as you ,1rnnt as long as you know how to manage your body fluids," she said. "You can't pass judgement about behavior. Regardless of the circumstances. you have to be responsible for body f1uids." 
Both Goode and Hoxv said that not onlv can education and effort stop the spread of the dis­ease, but they propose that the spread could have been halted in 1986. It was then that the virus had been identified and publicized. A-; a result, Surgrrnn General C. Everett Koop com­missioned a mailing to every 
U.S. household describing the 
contraction of the virus and what steps should be taken to prevent its spread. Had this warning beirn heeded and con­tinuous education supported, the world would not be facing the AIDS crisis it does, they said. 
"There are two crises in the United States regarding this dis­easr. One is prevention: there is none. There is no mandate for education. The sPcond is thp, care of the people infected. Funding and services are almost null," said Goode. 
Goode also said that because the disease has been in the pub­Ii c domain for so Jong. it has adapted to the human body's dPfonses and medical t.rnat­ments f'or the cHsrasc. As a result, the virus mutatfls quickly. 
"The average infoctl~d person bas 11 different strains of the virus," she said. 
Th,isc mutations also make the virus harder to detect. 
.. I am certain that there are peopll' walking around these campusr,s who arc inf<x:tr,d but don't know it." 
Roxy rites th,i quilt as a form of education that. can and tlnes work in a preventative capacity. The goal of establishing a Michiana chaptPr is not to µro­durc mlirP p11nels. hut to prn­vcn t pnople from needing to contribute lo Lim quilt. 
"Lpt's gPl to tlw point where you'rr, not a statistic, where you're not spending thousands of dollars to keep you alive, to the point where you're 
lish the 
N A M E S 
Project chapter on the third Thursday of each month. from 6:30-9 p.rn. in 300 University Health Services. 
"We're going to be having sewing bees, making the panels, which are 3'x6'. WP're also going to be doing a local project where we're going to be making smaller panels, 16"x20" which will stav here in the communi­ty," Roxy said. The smaller pan­els will be loaned to various organizations for display. 
Parts of the AIDS Memorial Quilt will be brought to South Bend graduation weekend as part of the 17th Annual International Candlelight Memorial and Remembrance Service on May 21. 
IRJE 
ing 
. drooms th "inmates t leases availa er 500 per mont
'\fotRs from Campu 
..... ··•
,;~:~::, 
\,:.,·' i:;i.:. . · ' ·lue In Off .. 
rotessionaly Managedb alEstate Management 
. · 234.992a·r~,
".ii¾,; 

Admission 
continued from page 1 
"In 1999-2000, as in the past 15 years or morr, the Admission program has had a nation­al and international focus," Nolan said. "Our admission co1msding staff travels to over JO states and l :i countries. WP an: supported by our alumnae VIS!\ (Volunteers in Support of Admission) mPmbnrs who am visiting sr.hools for 
us... 

Admissions has a network of admissions coun­selors assigned to regions in Urn United States, and also sends staff out on visits, both natonal amt intnnational. throughout t.hc year. 
"Wr, are working to dev!'lop in the intrrnation­al rnarknt," ;-.Jolan said. "Our international popu­lation is growing. YesUirduy wn recieved an application from a ~tudnnt in Homo." 
On tlrn internalioual l<wHI. Europe, Central Anrnrku and South America arc the~ focus o!' th,, Admissions offo:(1. Joye,! Lantz, associate direc­tor of Admissions, will travel to eight cliffonm1 European citins: Istanbul, Atlrnns, B1irli11. llamburg, 
Th11 llaguP, London and "To bring together uwmen Kelly IArmbrnchtl and !war­Home. to visit s,,vnral schools ofdiverse backgrounds ing about her l'XpPriPncPs Ias and counsPlors in order to a slud1rnt at Saini Mary's],"
is to enrfrh the education 
gnncratn mon• interest in the Mnghan VandcWawr, a cur­college. of all." rent f'rnshman, said. 
Saint Marv's is also a nwm­VandP\\'atPr and Armbrncht ber of tlw f1uropean Council Mary Pat Nolan attcndPd Shavn' MPmorial o!' luternalio11al Schools, I ligh School in Madison, Ind.
director of Admissions
which puts on stwcral tours and a conl't!r!'ncP Pach y<'ar. Last year's conforenw was in Nice, France and cities 011 the tour included Lisbon. Ban:dona, l\1adrid, and a side trip to 
Home. 

"A ynar from now, we hope to develop a lour in Latin and South Anrnrica," ;\Jolan said. 
Admissions staff will travPl to Peru, Chile, Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, Venezuala. Guatamala, and Panama this Septmnber with the College lnl'ormation Exchangc's 2000 Latin America Tour. lo plant rool<; for this new ven­turn. 
Exact numbl?rS and characteristics of the class of 2004 wern unavailable because of the inter­mediate stagn of the admissions process. Ilownver, Nolan did have some idea of what the class would bP like. 
"The corn of' Urn class is from the Midwest," Nolan said. "Our primary market states are Indiana, Illinois, Michigan and Ohio. Approximately two-thirds of the applicant pool will be from these states. 
However, nearly 40 slates arc represented. Concern for diversity within the student body has also sprPad to the Admissions Ollice. 
"To bring together women of diverse back­grounds is to enrich t.lrn education of all,'' Nolan said. "We arn pleased to rPport that applications for multicultural students hav1~ increased by a few percentage poinl<;." 
Nolan also stressed the fact that the involve­ment of current students, faculty and alumnae in the rncruiiment and ,mro!lment prcess is one of the reasons Saint Mary's is so successful in atlrm:ting applicants to the College. 
"The application for admission givos appli­cants an opportunity to list !"actors important to their decision to apply for admission," Nolan said. "Among tlrnsP most c.ommonly liswd [arn] on-campus visits, currcint stud!\nts, nlumnan­cndorscmnnts, Saint Mary's puh!icalions, mc<•t­ing admissions counselors at high Sl'hool visits and r.oll!igo f"airs." 
"Whal mad1' nw makl' my 
final dlicision ,vas talking to 
togPt.lwr. Armhrncht is 110w a 
sophomorn at Saint Mary's. 

Nolan agrnNI that th,; rnla­tionships that a pros1w1·tivi• student dl'V<>lops through tlw admissions process am very impor­tant as rnganls to their eventual college deci­sion. 
"We fool we are devnloping a rnlationship with each and every studlmt. Once thny am on cam­pus, limy foe! likP the mnssagn ,vo gave was what they found. We likli to !;lit our l'UITnnt stu­dents involved -you 'rn talking to someone who is living the nxpPriPncc. Our nrnssagHs are con­sistent. Everyone wants to gnt in on tlw act." 
f<or the class of 2004 and previous first-year classes, Nolan had nothing but praise. "We t,md to attract students who am VfWV activc in their community. They tend to be the·doers, and tlrny add to the quality ol' lifo in tlrnir high schools. They're a pretty special bunch." 
CampusVib~vy?ntsyou to 
w IN~~:; b~~~lce 
in a mt.f:S~ifctvid€o ! 
l1ll 
: 
You can also help yourba~d win a video shootjustb:y watching theirvideos on WWW. campusvibe.cqfl!{music 
• • Now Showing • • Flaming lips 
@ the Cubby Bear PLUS, an exclusive documentaryshort by Brad Beesley. 
Kittie@ 328 Performance Hall 
BR5-49 Record Release Party 


Ian Moore @ SxSW CampusVibe.com
CollegeLife -Full On! *For more details on how to become eligible, go to www.CarnpusVibe.com 
Friday, April 14, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
SMC aluIDna publishes novel 

22-cily tour from coast to Jack MacChesney, a coal-min­
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 

coast. ing bachelor looking for true News '«'rirer 
The novel. which takes place love; and Pearl Grimes, a shy in the author's hometown in mountain girl on the verge of Adriana Trijiani, an 1'81 Big Stone Gap, Virginia, has a miraculous transformation." 
Saint Mary's graduate, just potRntial for more than 3 mil­"13ig Stone Gap" will soon be released her novel "Rig Sterne lion dollars in initial sales. made a major motion picture Gap" with Random House The publishing house directed and produced by Publishers ordered a ·1 50,000-book Trijiani. Trijiani has worked two weeks Book printing for the first edition. as a television writer/produc­ago and Signing and The novel is based upon the er, playwright, comedian and its already character Ave Maria Mulligan, documentary filmmaker.
Discussion

risen to a 35-year-old "self-proclaimed She has also helped produce fame. . April 15 spinster," who is the town "The Cosby Show". "A She wi!I pharmacist, co-captain of the Different World", and "Good
. Hammes Notre

be visiting Rescue Squad, director of' The Sports." Trijiani was executive \I O t r C Dame Bookstore: Trail of thA Lonesome PinA, producer and head writer for Dame and the town's outdoor drama. the film show "City Kids" and
2 p.m.

S a i n t "She finds herself keeping she wrote and produced
Mary · s . Welsh parlor, 

busy with the town's secrets "Growing up Funny". which campuses Haggar Student and discovers some of family was an Emmy nomination for tomorrow secrets of her own," she said. Lily Tumlin and Lifetime
Center: 4 to 6 p.m.
afternoon The novel lakes place in the Television. !'or a book year 1978 and Ave Maria finds She also wrote, produced signing and discussion. herself in the midst of two and directed the film "Queens 
Her stop in South Bend is marriage proposals and p1an­of the Bigtime" (19%). which 
part of Trijiani's three week, ning a life-changing journr,y to won the Audience Award for the Old Country. In the mean­Best Documentary Feature at time, Ava Maria is helping a the 1996 Hamptons best friend plan a band half­International Film Festival. time show because Elizabeth In her review of the book. 
THERE'S  GREAT  
ABOUT  GOING  FISHING  HERE I  
THERE'S  NO  LIMIT.  


Taylor. a Ilullywood movie star, is coming into tuwn. 
Other characters in the novel include, "the sexpot Bookmobile librarian, Iva Lou Wade; Fleeta Mullins, the chain-smoking pharmacy cashier; Elmo Gaspar, the snake-handling preacher; 
Grand Ma 
S T lJ ll I 
Recording • Production • Mast Duplication • Music & Vocal Les Demo Production • Music Equi 
Sound & Lights • Sales & Ren Analog 2'" & Digital Hard Drive Syst 
"The Biggest Recording Studio in Northwest Indiana·• 

Whoopi Goldberg said it is " ... one of my all-time favorite novels, unforgettable." 
Trijiani will be at Notre Dame's bookstore on Saturday at 2 p.m. and at Welsh parlor in the Haggar Student Center, Saint Mary's College from 4 to 6p.m, 
FREE REFILL 
On Popcorn & Soft Drinks! 



THE DELICIOUS BK BIG FISH~ VALUE MEAL. After one bite, you'll ba hooked on our tasty fish fi/et topped with lresh lettuce and tangy tartar sauce along with crispy fries and an ice-cold drink. And best ot all, this is one fishing spot that never runs out. 

HAVE IT YOUR WAY!
The Huddle .. Lafortune Student Center 

Toy Story 2 (Gl The Sixth Sense (PG-13) 
[I:00] 4:00 6:30 9:l¾) [1:50] 4:40 7:10 950 The Green Mile (R) Stuart Little (PG) 
112:40] 4JO 8:20 [I JO] 4: 10 6:40 9: IO Herc on Earth (PG-13) Galaxy Quest (PG) 
11 :40] 4:50 7:20 \l:40 [ l :20] 4:'.!0 7:(Xl 9JO 
page 8 ne Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 14, 2000 

PUBUC l.ECTURE 
RESPONSE 
HIS EMINENCE 

EDWARD ID1RIS CARDINAL CASSIDY 
PRESIDENT. PONTfflCAt COUNCIL. fOH PROMOTING CHRISnAN UNITY 
"The Joint Declaration on Justification: A Significant Ecumenical Achievement"' 
DR.. GEORGE A. LINDBECK 
Pitkin Professor fmerltus ot Htstor!cal Theo fogy YAll UNIVERSITY 
hiday, April 14, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Detroit police find links between prostitute, port deaths 
total 18 to 20 worldwide, includ­ Carolina in 1992. Armstrong is  Armstrong's wife  was ques­ The  murder  charges  carry 
Asso~iated Press  ing prostitute strangulations in  originally from New Bern. N.C.  tioned  but  uncooperativ(i,  mandatory sentences of life in  
DETROfT A man suspi\ctcd of going from port to port strangling women while in the Navy might have begun killing eight years ago, and his victim totfll coulrl rea<'h 20, police said Thursday. John Eric Armstrong. 26, is accused of killing fivf' Detroit area µrosLi1.uL<is and is suspected in at lnast 11 other slayinKs sinrn 1992: thrPc in the Seattle area. two in Hawaii. twu in Hong Knng and one each in North Carolina, Virginia, Thailand and  Japan, Korea and Israel. Many of the cities are ports of <'all for the USS Nimitz, on which police say Armstrong served for about eight years as a fueler. "As the investigation keeps going on, bodies keep poppiug up. The numbers keep incrnas­ing," Officer Octaveious Ylilcs said. "Th(-)re is a similar pattern that ties them all together that creates a trail." All the victims were women who were strangled, except one, a man killed in Seattle.  Police there said he has no /Winkler said. The couple has a criminal baby boy; he is rncord and with his moth­''As the investigation was not er, whose under inves­keeps going on, bodies whereabouts tigation. keep popping up. The Thursday were Armstrong unknown,numbers keep increasing." was arrested Winkler added. c a r I y W a y n e Wednesday Octaveious Miles County in an area of officer Assistant Detroit fre­Prosecutor quented hy Hobert prostitutes. Police have been Agacil1ski said Armstrong would questioning him without an be charged and arraigned  prison if' convicted. The Navy began investigating after receiving a call from the FBI on Wednesday, Navy Lt. Cmdr. Larrv Thomas said. Ho said they arc still trying to con­firm the suspect's identity and whether ho was actually enlist­ed. Thomas said he could not say whether the s[ayings in ports of call coincided with times the Nimitz was docked there. The suspect moved eight months ago to Dearborn Heights  
Singapore. IJntroit Assistant Police Chief  Winkler said tlrn first slaying that police think is linked to  attorney present. Ho's coop.1rat­ing and hasn't asked for a  Friday on five counts of premed­itated murder and threfl counts  and has worked for the past month at Detroit Metropolitan  
!\farvin '.Vinkier said victims may  Armstrong oc.currnd in North  lawyer, they said.  of assault with intent to murder.  Airport as an aircraft n~fueler.  

INTERESTED IN SCI ENCE, TECHNOLOGY, 
AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 

Moral issues surrounding technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computerization, engineering, and architectural design challenge us euery day. 
To ettplore these issues in depth inuestigate the unique Notre Dame STU Program. This is a minor requiring 15 hours that can be taken by students in any college. Within the STU Program you may deuelop concentrations in specific tracks emphasizing STU interactions with Business; Enuironmental Studies; Preprofes­sional Studies; Philosophy and Theology; Computer and Physical 
Sciences; and 6ouernment and Public Policy. 
Course offerings for Spring 2000 may be reuiewed by informa­tion obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or uisit our website at http://www.nd.edu/~stu. Call 631-5015 for a personal appoint­ment. 
Castl~'Poiot 
Apartme.nts · 
.· Cleveland and lromvood Roads/IBOJI Cleveland Road/South Bend, Indiana 46637/ (219)272-8110 


We want yon... 00 the ~ (~111\l.,l.,J~Nf,I~ IJ l~I'l,Nl~SS 'l,1~1111! 
,4nditions for Step, Hi/lo and Toning 
.jnstructo~s will be h~ld .4pril 25,... 
, • .;:~ ..I< ,1,.,,,..., '-1. ~~/,;11 ,:i,r;.., C'
~'&~ ctr ~~?-~·-!\~-;!-7• }i t~if~..~/
It, .-<..(... , ~: ,,:/7S fi('rl·:\/;\ /J.: :..:t··,l ,;; 1\;i''a_ :-S. Ji lli'it &. .JJ 11,\:·~-)., .;; ill~ "'· 
IIEUE'S 1fIIJ\'l' YOU NEED 'l'O DO: 
I. llE'l'UllN A (~O~IPtE'l'ED APPI.. H~A'l'ION 
·ro nEcs1)ou·1·s HY AilJllf.. 1n. APPS AUE A\TAif.JlHI..E IN 'l'IIE USU(~. 
2. SE'I' UP AN IN'l'Elll'IElf lfl'l'II .JENNIE 1•1111..J..IPS @ (j:J I -59(j5. R-=-=y-~ 
cinema@thesnite 
New Castle Point Select Units ·Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
•
Renovated, spacious one aµd two bedroom apartments~ some with lofts· 

•
Includes me~bership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness , Center 



Fri. &Sat. 6:45 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page I 0 BSERVER Friday, April 14, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bn• Q, Notre· Dame. IN 4655G 021 Sourh Dining Ho,11, "lorre D:1me. IN 465% 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connollr 
M.'J,;AGING EmTOR BUSTNF..SS MA-'IAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lme 
AssT. MANAGlt.G EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Tim Log,m 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VI.t-WPOINT EDITOR: Lil,, Haugh"}• SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith ScEt.E EDITOR: AmandJ Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly MrVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lug 
ADVEIUISING MMAGER: Pat !'etcr, AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chis Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISfRAT0R: Mike Gunvillc WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Ad,1111 Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: jo,e Cue!Lu 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO..............631-7471 fAX .. ..........631-6927 ADVERTISING..... ............................63 J-6900/8840 
observer@1darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME ...................631-454 l Bus1r-;FSs OFFICE....... .........•..631-5313 
NEWS.........  .................................631-5323  
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu  
VIEWl'0INT...  ································ 631-5303  
observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu  
SPORTS ..  ..................631-4543  
observer.sports. l@nd.edu  
SCENE......... .  ·····•····· ·····················631-4540  
observer.scene. l@nd.edu  
SAJNTMARYs.  ............. ·······•• ··••······63 !-4324  
observer.smc l@nd.edu  
PHOTO  ································631-8767  

SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://obserner.,ul.edu for daily updates ofwn1pus news, sports, fl:atures and opinion columns, as well as c1rtoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-rhe 
movies/music for 
weekly smdenr reviews
111inute forecasrs 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
to mecc che editors and 
anides published after 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent. daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of rhe adminimarion ofeirher insritution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisernenrs h,1sed on content. 
The news is reported as accurately md objectively as possible. Unsigrred editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assiscmt Managing Editor an<l deparrmem editors. Con1men.taries, Icrrers a11d colunrns presenr rhe vi~s of the authors ,md nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contac, information. 
Q11tltio11s 1·egardi11g Obseruer pn/ic,es ,ho11td be dim·t­ed tfl Editor in ChiefMike Com10/ly. 

.I 
•
l
\, j 
• 
....,... 
J 


Soap operas in the public square 
America is a soap opera. 
It is ugly but it is lrue. We are in con­stant need of entertainment. So if we r,an find nothing that catches our fancy {War with some 
third-world r.oun­try, sending an old astronaut into space, a big movie release, etc.) we over-dramatize anything that we can in order to keep the pretty 

color pictures fly­ing across our tele-Matt Loughran vision screens. Because gas prices 
Random
go up a little bit. suddenly trucks Thoughts caravan to the Capitol and every­one is worried about the reserves of oil in thr, U.S: "Careful. we might run out." "We only have enough for a few years if we get cut off by OPEC." "Wn should research more oil fields in Alaska." What people didn't notice is that OPEC, stating thal each member had been losing money because of devaluation. had cut production in order to survive. Asking less than a dollar for a gallon of gas is just unreasonable in the modr,rn market. Then. when asked bv the United States to increase pn>duction to subsistence levels without inundating the market. they quickly agreed. Look for your gas prices to drop back to $1.20/gallon within the nest few months, the way that they should be. 
A Cuban boy, who is too young to understand the difference betwr,en Miami and liavana has been in the headlines in every major newspaper for months now. Not that there has been much anything else in the news­paper. Excitement with the two duds of presidential candidates has died down and the summer murder season dOfisn 't hr,at up for another two months. (I havr, lived in and around Washington D.C. my entire life, trust me, tlrnre is such a thing as a "murder season".) 

So, we have to watch the disgusting spectacle of people who arc only con­cerned with political repercussions of reuniting this boy with his father, parade around claiming that the gov­ernment of the United States has a duty to make sure that he lives in this coun­try raised in Miami with distant rela­tives whom he has nr,ver met before. Now thern are questions of where the relativr,s will hand the boy over to his f'atlrnr or even if thr,y will. (The girl who has been caring for him is con­stantly being hospitalized for fatigue and strain.) 
Add to that the absurdity of "The Grandmothers" who made their trip up a few months ago to dance for thr, American media outlets and the mas­sive diplomatic headache of the boy's father visiting accompanied by two of Castro's "psychologists." With all of these you have as compelling story as the American public wants to stomach. 
The bottom line is that, oppressive regime or not. the United States has neither the duty nor the right to get involved in a child custody case between the natural father and distant relatives. We will ship hundreds of now homeless I Iaitians back home in an overcrowded ship to a government waiting to imprison them. but we have ethical qualms about sending onn boy back with his father in a private jet to an assuredly normal life as Castro's trophy citizen. 
But. if that wasn't enough, building on the beautiful show of' love, harmony and trust that accompanied the meet­ings of the World Trade Organization in Seattle, people have bngun springing up on street corrrnrs in Washington 
D.C. protesting the International Monetary Fund. 
This organization, responsible for bailing out and restructuring the failing nconomies in the third world is being blastcid because they will not forgive all debts. llow long do you think an orga­nization could last that gives away free money? In the United States we have seen a wr,lfarc state fail miserably. The system is rife with abuses and peoplf1 who. once given the opportunity to earn a paychc\ck without work. contin­un that process as long as they can. 
It is the easiest thing in thP world l'or a government to gr,t itself into debt with othnr countries. The United StalPs has been that way for years. Vr,ry few of those governments, however. have the resources that wr, do to get them back on track. That is why organiza­tions likr, the IMF exist. Hieber coun­tries pay money into the fund and poorer countries are eligiblr, to receive it if they meet restructuring require­mr,nts. It is not easy. but it is a way for the third world to get sonrn help f'rom the industrialized nations without hav­ing to grovel and bng with ambas­sadors. 
If nvery one of those people who were protesting down there this week even knew what the IMF was about and thn spncifics of its relief programs. they wouldn't wastr, their time protest­ing. 
But, people need sonrnthing to do. They need something to keep them entertained. 
I find tlrn entire circle. thr, evnnt and the people watching it. at the same time both repulsive and oddly appeal­ing. 
Malt Loughran graduated from Notre Dame in 1998 and is currently working for a publishing company. 
The oiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
I'D QUIT THIS JOB, 
BUT NEXT YEAR I'LL GET AN EXTRA WEEK OF VACATION. 
E 
0 
~.. u 
@) 
e
.. 
"'.. 
~ 
" 

SCOTT ADAMS  
IF YOU GET AN EXTRA WEEK FOR EVER'y' TEN YEARS OF SERVICE ...  .. -YOU'LL BE HAPPY IN 4B0 YE/.\RS.  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The dynamic ofcapitalism is postponement (lenjoyment to the constantly postponed future." 
Norman 0. Brown commentator 

VIEWPOINT 
-·---­
Friday, April 14, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Administration harsh, hypocritical with OUTreachND 
Yrst(•rday I ri,r.rivf'd a kttcr from Joe Cassidy officially deny­ing OUTrl'arhND Univnrsity rrcognition. It wa5 obvious from sp11aking with Mr. Cassidy wrcks brfore that this was the only possible outcome of applying. Aftrr denying his initial request that OUTrnachND withdraw its applir,ation, we waited three Wl'Pks for n rnsponsc•. I don't think that anyone is surprised wilh that rPpsonsn. llow1wcr, in a telephone conversation with Mr. Cassidv. I asked for written reasons whv OUTreachND could not bl' n•rc;gnized. IIr. gave his answers: · 
"Although the Student J\r.tivities ol'fice and the office of Stud,~nt Affairs havr denied official University recognition for gay and lesbian student run organizations in the past, we have staled publicly our desire to create and sustain support struc­tu rns w!:irh meet the pastoral needs of' our gay and lesbian stu­dr.nls ... 
or rnurse you havf'. I'm not denying that. The point is that stnwtun)s suitable for meeting the pastoral needs or gays and IPsbians wern crnated decades ago. That is. the r.reation of any faith-based discussion group is sufficient. Why would gays and lesbians need their own? The lack of effectiveness, or more accurately, the lack of'want for these groups, is evident by observing their low attendance. 
The university insists on "programs and services offered by committed professionals and ministers... tn work with gay and lesbian students at Notrn Dame." 
I rnn't sp!\ak for r.vnryone, but I porsonally don't think that it is th<' university's plar.l' to "work with" me. Quite honestly. I !ind that offensiv,L 
Th<' univf'rsity wislws to " ...educate and sensitize our hetero­sexual students... " 
So dims OUTreachND. That's why OUTrear.hND initiated Solidarity Sunday, offers dorm talks, and offers its members to help oul the university's Standing Committee and Campus Ministry. 
The universit:v wishes to " ... create a safe and secure environ­mP.nt l'or all stu.dents in which no form of harassment is tolerat­ed.·• Thrn stop the hypocrisy. Her.ognizo our support group. 
Head what is going on. Mr. Cassidy did not provide one good mason as to "'·by OUTreachND was nol rerognized. The group's goal is create a healthy community in which gays, lesbians, bisPxu,tls. l1Pterosexuals. and all others in between r.an live in harmony. Ploasr. show your support for OUTrcachND by writing Mr. Cassidy, SlUdnnt Activities Office, 315 Lafortune Student Cc•nler. Thank you. 
Jeremy M. Bauer 
Sophomore Ap, ii 12, 2000 

O
THE BSERVER page 11 
Porn and rape are related 
Hav.ing read all of the recent articles on rape, I cannot help but mention that which no one seems to wish to admit. A rather easy way exists to eliminate most of these date rapes that we have hPard A.bout. 
All of those we have heard from were drink­ing heavily and were with men who were drinking heavily. When people drink that mu1,;h, their reason is destroyed. When a man lacking in virtue has no reason either, he tends to do indecent things with women who are also lacking in reason. 
Much of the problem here has to do with the habits or men. Many of us say that we are against rape, but we have subscriptions to Maxim. Playboy, Penthouse, or other such smut. \Ve affirm with our reason that rape is wrong, but don't extend that logir:ally to pornography; thus we train our passions in a way that bewmes dangerous to us and to oth­ers when we lose our reason and are ruled by our passions. 
When one lives in a large city, one does not go walking in dark alleys because one knows that one will be mugged. When one is a woman. one should have the prudence not to drink heavily when surrounded by men who are not virtuous (though really also should havP the prudence not to drink heavily at all). It sounds to me like all of these women failed to come to this rather obvious conclusion. 
We should be outraged not only by what has happened, but at a social scene that demands heavy drinking and at institutions like pornog­raphy that turn us into animals. It' we are seri­ous about eliminating rape, then we will reform our social habits. If vou women out there demanded that the men you know stop their destructive behaviour. they would, soon­er or later; thPy should not need this motiva­tion, but odds are it is the most effective way to influence them. I highly doubt if 1/4 of all women are raped during r.ollege: that would be an average of an entire floor of one of our women's dorms raped every single weekend herr at ND. It is however a problem that can be avoided by changing our social habits. Stop drinking heavily; stop immersing yourselves in porn. There are reasons that our elders tell us these things are wrong. 
• 
Nathaniel Hannan Dillon, Sophomore April 13. 2000 

Questioning law school's hiring 
rn response to Professor Rice's arti­cle, "Keeping the Faith in Law School." its important to point out that Notre Dame's Catholic charar.ter is not what caused us to drop in the U.S. l>;ews rankings. A brief look at the recent events of the past two years provides a more accurate under­standing of why we dropped. 
First, the replace­ment of Dean Link was a debacle and 

the country's law school community knows what hap­pened. At least as early as the fall of 1998 a faculty com­mittee was appoint­ed to select a new dean. The commit­tee r.ould not come to a resolution by April 1999. One of the names on the "short list" was for­mer Professor John Garvey. Garvey was on another law school's short list as well, Boston College. When Garvey was offered the job at BC Im was given a dfmdline for accepting the offer. 13rfore accepting the offer Garvey went to a top ND administrator and described his situation. Garvey basically told this administra­t.or, "f havn an offer from BC. J would prefer lo be dean here, hut if no decision is made before the BC deadline I would be inclined to be dean there. rather than risk not being a dean at all." Due the faculty commit­tee's inability to r.ome to a dPcision. Nathan Hatch look the helm and proposed Garvey for the position. Ono day after Garvey was pub­licly announced as the candidate of choire, he gave a public address to the law school com­munity. One day aftf'r this address Garvey withdrew his name from consideration. What happened? 
Apparnntly, some members of the faculty commiltce (lhe same committee that had be(m unable to roach a decision for over six months} were so outraged by Garvey's nomi­nation that they successfully raised such 
ruckus as to cause Garvey to withdraw his name from consideration. Today Garvey is dean at BC. iBC rose in the US News rankings). When a candidate is announced to the community and gives a speech, the deal is essen­tially done. When mem­bers or a committee who sat on their hands for months and months cause a mini-uprising to overthrow a rea­sonable decision, it reflects poorly on the law school. This poor behavior is one cause of our drop in the rankings. Second. our cur­
rent dean. albeit one who is faithful to Notre Dame, lacks the curriculum 
vitae that othr,r deans of top 25 law schools possess. 
Garvey's c.v. made him a much more appropriate candidate 

for the job. In addition to his r..v .. Garvey is touted as being respon­sible for bringing in many of the newer facultv mem­bers of the law scho<il. This is an important point becausr, many of these newer faculty members are highly ~ regarded in the academic commu­nity, as well as others. Dean O'Hara 
might eventually become an excellent dean, but her previous job experience cannot be an acrurate guide for making this judg­ment. She was not the most qualified candi­date on the short list. Our current dean's unproven lark ofjob experience is another reason why we dropped in the rankings. 
This is not to say I believe in the infallible guidance of U.S. News rankings. I don't. But. let's not confuse the reasons why we dropped. Our immitture hiring process and our r.urrent dean's lack of job experience arc thr. two main reasons why our law school dropped. And. right.fully so. 
Joseph A. Tomain 
ND '98; ND L,w '01 April 13, 2000 


O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Friday, April 14, 2000 

By MARY ANNE LEWIS Scene Writer 
On March 26, 1911, Thomas Lanier Williams was born in Columbus, Miss. 
"Can a Good Wife Be a Good Sport?", an essay published in "Smart Set," appeared just 16 years later. This marked Williams' first publishing tri­umph and earned him $5. 
For the next 56 years, his life would grace the world with 
doctor, would never have imagined it ­for the spinster does not seem capable of passion. 
But she loves him and this love will change their lives forever, in ways that none of those involved could have antici­pated. 
A year ago, Katherine Sullivan, a pro­fessor who teaches a literary seminar on Tennessee Williams at Saint Mary's College, chose the play "Summer and Smoke" for this year's Theatre and 
Dance Season. 
priceless literary mas­ 'Summer and Smoke'  "I just felt that this  
terpieces.  the  most  was the right play to do.  
famous of which would  I think he writes beauti­ 
be his plays.  . Moreau Center Little Theatre  ful women and we're a  
Tennessee Williams took hold of his title as a  . Today through Sunday  women's Sullivan said.  college,"  
playwright of excellence  . Tickets: $5.50 forsludenls,  The play has a lyrical  
when he won the Group  $6.50 for staff, $7 .50 tor senior cit- style,  a  Southern tex­ 
The a ter Prize of $100for American Blues and received a $1,000  $izens and 8.50 for adults . AvailableatlheO'Laughlin  ture and a universal plot. Struggles, deci­sions, loneliness and  
Rockefeller  grant  in  Auditorium Box Office or call  souls reaching out to  

19 39. World War II defined the backdrop of (219) 284-4626 Williams' most famous play, "The Glass Menagerie," which ran in 1944 and 1945 in both Chicago and in New York on Broadway. Through this piece, Williams won the New York Drama Critics' Circle Award as the best play of the season. Then, in 1948, Tennessee Williams created "Summer and Smoke." This work of uniquely-Williams genius joins the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity for four short days. From April 13 through April 16, "Summer and Smoke" will serve as the feature attrac­tion at the Moreau Center/Little Theatre as Saint Mary's presents this tour de force for their 1999 -2000 Theatre & Dance Season. In "Summer and Smoke," Dr. John Buchanan tells Miss Alma, "We're trying to find something, but we don't even know what it is." Such statements drive the play as they force the audience to question what course of action should be taken. Tables turn with fate's cruel timing, and Williams leaves the audience with a choke between a tale of self-destruction or a tale of self-integration. See the show and decide what you have just wit­nessed. Miss Alma has been in love with John her entire life. He, the handsome and dissolute son of the town's respected 
one another provide the 
audience with a basis 
from which they may 
identify with the charac­
ters. 
Auditions began in January, and the crew has been working very hard since. The cast consists of Saint Mary's stu­dents, as well as several Notre Dame students and a student from Holy Cross. Extensive rehearsing, work on accents and an unfathomable amount of time has been pul. into the play. 
Ironically. the climax of the play comes in a time of silence. The scene shows Dr. John Buchanan circling Miss Alma; they stare into one another's eyes as the lights dance about them. In that moment, he realizes how desperately he needs her, and once again, "Alma's Theme" plays in the background. 
"I think we have those moments in our lives, moments that define our lives, and they may not be with the person we end up with. But it's a moment of true con­nection, and I think it's a beautiful thing," Sullivan remarked. 
Set in 1916, this tale is one of escape, whether it be from inhibitions, from poverty or even from oneself. Williams flashes parts of his own life in the play as the characters question choices con­cerning ideals that range from carnality to spirituality. There is romance, tragedy and open-endedness. In the end, Williams seems to ask another question rather than provide an answer. 
'Big St 

Saint Marys alumna Adriana Tr 

By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Scene Writer 
True love can happen any­where, at any time. No one is too old or too young. That is just one of the messages Adriana Trigiani sends in her best-selling novel "Big Stone Gap." The only event that truly dates this novel is a visit to the town by Elizabeth Taylor, stumping for her then-husban, 
Representative John Warner, .in 1978. 
Trigiani's work is not just a love story; it is a masterpiece of story­
telling. As main char­acter Ave Maria Mulligan narrates the 
story for the reader, her voice remains gen­uine and true. Through Ave Maria, Trigiani
makes each and every character and place come alive. Even when Ave Maria relates a story from her child­hood or past experi­
ence, there is always a connection between the tale and the overall plot. The reader feels connected to Ave Maria through her sorrows, her joys and her journeys, as well as those of her acquaintances. 
Set in the Virginia mountains of Appalachia in the 1970s, "Big Stone Gap" is full of the antics of small town life. Everyone knows everything about everyone else ­or at least thinks they do. That is where the fun begins. Ave Maria is 36 years old as the curtain rises on her story. On the verge of mid­dle age, she suddenly feels out of place in a town where so many of her peers are parents of teenagers and some are even grandparents. Ave Maria, named by her Italian mother, is set apart from the rest of the town -not only because of her heritage, but also because she went off to college. Most women in her generation married straight out of high school, stayed home and had childreii. "Let me blame life. Life keeps interferm1f wi-th my plans. First Fred Mulligan was~-­sick; then I took care of Mama. business got to booming and I took on more and more and thought about myself less and lflss," Ave Maria laments. Fred Mulligan, Ave Maria's father, ran 
Adriana Trigiani 
Book discussion, signing and reading tomorrow 
. 
Hammes Bookstore, 2 p.m. 

. 
Haggar Center, 


Saint Mary's 4 p.m. ­6 p.m. (with recep­
tion) 
the town pharmacy. Ave Maria took over the business after she graduated from college and her father fell ill with cancer. As Ave Maria's search for her identity and place in the world continues. she decides that what she really wants is a man, someone to have, to hold and to love. There is just one small problem with her new resolve. "Around here, men my age have been married since they 
were seventeen. Some of them are grandfathers already. There are no men!" she exclaims. Ave Maria volunteers as the director of the town's outdoor drama, "The Trail of the Lonesome Pine." Events transpire at one of the perfor­mances in such a way that she finds herself back on the marriage market. 
Despite the shortage of desir­able men of marriageable age in Big Stone Gap, once Ave Maria has revealed her desire to relin­quish the dubious honor of town spinster, she has no lack of pro­posals. Along with these propos­als, Ave Maria must deal with a greedy aunt and uncle, revisiting the pain of adolescence and the family skeletons that fall out of the closet when her mother dies in the 


w E 
ceneN D 
O
THE Friday, April 14, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
e Gap' captivates audience 
·ani's novel explores relationships and growing up in a small Virginia town 
sooner the bet­ter -which side you fall on, because if you don't do it for yourself, the world will. Why wait for the judgement?" Ave Maria says, 
In a fit of empathy, for Pearl's situation, Ave Maria hires Pearl on at the pharmacy. The only other employee -the chain­smoking, WWF fanatic Fleeta Mullins -wants to retire. Pearl takes to the pharmacy like a fish to water, joining Weight Watchers and learning about face products to take care of her acne. Pearl's grades improve along with her confidence. In Pearl, Ave Maria is able to find a solution to the demands of her aunt and uncle. Ave Maria is also co-captain of the local Rescue Squad, and Trigiani uses this position as an inciting inci­dent quite often throughout the pages that comprise Ave Maria's journey. 
An accident at the local high school involving a toilet intro­duces the reader to Theodore Tipton, Ave Maria's best friend and a fellow outsider. Theodore is a teacher and the band direc­tor at Powell Valley High School. This incident is also the first time Pearl enters in on the action. 
When Elizabeth Taylor visits, Ave Maria and her team are the first paramedics on the scene as the screen star chokes on a chicken bone at the gala dinner the town throws in her honor. (According to the author's note, Taylor really did visit the Gap in 1978 with her husband and was 
demands, and Trigiani uses a surprising but plausible turn of events to resolve Ave Maria's discoveries about her family following her mother's death. An important part of Ave Maria's journey of self-discovery is her role in the town. As an Italian, Roman Catholic, college-educated and unmarried resident of Big Stone Gap, Ave Maria finds herself in a minority, and qustions whether she actually belongs in the community or has merely been a visitor in it for 35 years. She plans a journey to Italy to explore her roots, which causes futher complications. 
While all this goes on, Ave Maria continues to explore the singles scene. After her best friend, Iva Lou Wade, the Bookmobile librarian and town sexpot, finally settles on a man, Ave M:aria feels more pressure to find her own partner in mat­rimony. She discovers why she has avoided such relationships for so long, even while she was away at college. "As the town spinster, I had no picture of my old age. Being alone gave me a certain timelessness ... I froze myself in time, hoping it would not catch me. I was so afraid to love someone for fear I would fail," she feels. 
Ave Maria also comes to terms with her troubled rela­tionship with her father, 12 years after his death, and uses this knowledge to define what she wants to do with the rest of her life.The characters are a scream -from their names to opening chapter. 


When addressing the pains of growing up, Trigiani paints a beautiful and accurate picture of each generation involved. Ave Maria is pittP.d against her gen­era tion 's beauty, Sweet Sue Tinsley -a recent divorcee and mothe·r of two who is V)ing for the attentions of the same man -and later, Sarah Dunleavy, the new English teacher, who is young and beautiful. Ave Maria sees her own situation with Sweet Sue repeating itself in the younger generation. Pearl Grimes is an insecure, chubby teenager, horribly and under­standably jealous of the home­coming queen/star of the out­door drama, Tayloe Slagle. Tayloe is everyone's perfect girl. 
These characters are in no way stereotypical as Trigiani paints them, another indication of the author's skill as a verbal illustrator. "I wish I could tell Pearl that being 
taken to the hospital after chok­ing on a bone.) At the dinner, Ave Maria's personal life dilem­ma unfolds in more painful detail before her audience. 
'A mining accident reveals the dangerous livelihood which sup­ports most of the town's fami­lies, further separating the career-minded Ave Maria from her peers. Most of the men go straight from high school into the mines, because "Mining is a family tradition; usually sons follow fathers into the mines, and their sons will follow them." 
The accident also serves as a step in Ave Maria's awakening to her emotions -which she has hitherto ignored -and develops another pivotal char­acter in Trigiani's plot, taciturn Jack "Jack Mac" MacChesney, a miner. MacChesney, still a bachelor, lives with his ener­getic mother, "Apple Butter" Nell, who plays fairy godmother 
to Ave Maria. 

the prettiest girl 
"The best thing in town was no a father can do great shakes, for his son is but eventually love his moth­she would find er," Jack says at out the truth. one point, When you're underscoring 15, it is every­Ave Maria's th in g. And quandary. when you're 35, As for her it's still some­family troubles, thing. Beauty is Ave Maria uses the fat yellow the small town's line down the gossip mill to middle of skillfully Powell Valley arrange an Road. And it's answer to her best to figure aunt and out -and the uncle's 
Ave Maria's 
descriptions to 
the way they 
speak and 
behave. 
Trigiani 
allows Ave 
M a r i a 
Mulligan to 
dabble in the 
Chinese art of 
face-reading 
to aid in her 
verbal pic­
tures. But Ave 
Maria's face 
studies arc 
not just a 
hobby or a 
simple device 
used for 
description; 
they play an 
important 
part in the 
plot develop­
ment of this 
novel. "It was 
then that I 
first checked 
out this book 
on Chinese 
face reading. I 
thought that if 
I read my 
father's face, I 
would be able 
to understand 
why he was so 
mean ... He 
had small eyes 
(sign of decep­
tive nature), a 
bulbous nose 
(sign of money 
in midlife, 
which he had 
from owning 
t h e 
Pharmacy), 

and no lips. Okay, he had two 
lips, but the set of the mouth 
was one tight gray lead-pencil 
line. That is a sign of cruelty," 
Ave Maria discovers. Trigiani's cast is not only 
amusing ih their actions and 
conversations, but extremely 
believable and genuine. All in 
all, "Big Stone Gap" is sweet, 
suspenseful with out seeming 
contrived and well-written from 
the first line to the last. There is 
enough suspense to hook even the most jaded mystery readers, tomorrow in Hammes Bookstore enough of the classical touch to at 2 p.m. There will be a recep­satisfy the literary elite and tion with further signings and plenty of laughs and tears for discussions as well as readings the average reader of all ages from the book in Haggar and types. This is a work of art Student Center's Welsh Parlor ½ith the potential to touch even from 4-6 p.m. A motion picture the hardest heart. As Whoopi based on Trigiani's book is in Goldberg says, "[This is] one of the works, which Trigiani is my all-time favorite novels ... writing and plans to direct. The unforgettable." movie is being produced by The 
The author will discuss and Shooting Gallery, the same film sign copies of her book, pub­company that worked on "Sling lished by Random House, Blade." 

The sign seen entering this small town in Appalachia highlights the town's athletic teams, though the attention gained from the novel will surely attract more tourists. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 2000 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Dodgers overcome Giants to win third straight 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Adrian Beltre drove in two runs, 15 hours apart, and the Los Angeles Dodgers defeated the San Francisco Giants 6-5 Thursday night in the comple­tion of a game suspended from the previous night. 
The Dodgers scored three runs in the seventh inning off Ben.Weber (0-1) to erase a one­run deficit and win their third straight, including both games at Pacific Bell Park -the Giants' new home. 
Rich Aurilia homered and drove in three runs for the Giants, who lost their fourlh straight. 
Terry Adams {1-0) pitched l 2-3 innings of one-hit relief to earn thP. victory, and JP.ff Shaw pitched a scoreless ninth for his third save. 
Ellis Burks and Aurilia each drove in runs in the sixth after the game resumed to give the Giants a 4-3 lead. 
Beltre's run-scoring single off Aaron Fultz highlighted the three-run rallv. Mark Grudzielanek and T~dd Hundley also drove in runs. 
Neither starter figured in the decision. Dodgers' Darren Dreifort allowed three runs on four hits with a walk and strike­out in five innings Wednesday, while Giants' Joe Nathan allowed three runs on four hits and five walks in six innings. 
Beltre's sacrifice fly in the top of the sixth put the Dodgers ahead 3-2. The Giants wern coming to bat in the bottom half when it began to rain heavily Wednesday night. 
The Dodgers had the bases loaded with no outs in the sec­ond after Shawn Green led off with a single and Eric Karros and Hundley walked, but Reltn1 hit. into a double play, scoring one run. Kevin ElstAr. greeted with boos in his first at-bat after Tuesday's three-homer effort, struck out. 
Los Angeles went ahead 2-0 on Green·s third inning sacrifice 11y before San Francisco evened the score. Aurilia homered to lead off the third and the Giants scored again without benefit of a bit in the fourth when Bill Mueller came around frnm sec­ond on first baseman Karros' fielding error. 
Mets 2, Phillies 1 
Mike Piazza's tiebreaking, RBI double with two outs in the ninth inning helped the New York Mets snap a four-game losing streak with a victory over the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Jay Payton singled with one out ofT Scott Aldred (0-1) for his first career three-hit game. With two outs, Piazza hit a liner to left-center off Ama:urv Telemaco. Payton barely bea·t Mickey Morandini's relay throw from left fielder Ron Gant to score the winning run. 
Dennis Cook (2-0J got Rico Brogna lo pop out with two run­ners on in the eighth. Armando Benitez pitched the ninth for his third save. 

The Mets, who had lost six straight at Veterans Stadium, got a strong outing from Rick Reed. The right-hander allowed one run and four hits in seven innings and drove in New York's lirst run with a sacrifice ny. 
The Phillies tied it al 1-1 when Mike Licberthal hit Heed's first pitch in the seventh just over the left-lield wall. 
Reed's sacrifice fly scored Derck Bell to give the Mets a l­
o lead in the fourth. Bell led off with a single. Benny Agbayani and Hey Ordonez drew one-out walks to load the bases before Reed hit the first pitch to centrr. 
Randy Woll' solidified his spot in Philadelphia's rotation with his second straight strong out­ing. The left-hander allowed one run and five hits while walking six and striking out seven in seven innings. 
Expos 4, Pirates 3 

Bruce Avcn and Jason Kendall hit two-out, HBI singles in the bottom of the ninth as the Pittsburgh Pirates rallied against Montreal closer Ugueth Urbina to beat the Expos. 
Warren Morris. who went 3­for-4, hit a one-out single off Urbina (0-1). who blew his sec­ond save in four chances. One out later Adrian Brown singled for his third hit of the game, setting up Avrn's pinch-hit sin­gle that tied it. Kendall followed with a single up the middle. 
Jose Silva {2-0) got the win despite allowing a go-ahead sin­gle to Vladimir Guerrero in the top half of the ninth. ft was Guerrero's third hit of the game. 
The Expos took a 2-0 lead through three innings and missed chances to get more runs. 
Lee Stevens drew a one-out walk in the second and scored on Chris Widger's double. Guerrero started the inning with a single but was thrown out stealing. 
Starter Jeremy Powell led off the third with. a double and Peter Bergeron followed vvith a single. The Expos got just one run out of' the first-and-third. no out situation when Jose Vidro grounded into a double play. 
Pittsburgh scored its first run in the fourth when John Vander Wal and Morris hit consccutivp, two-out doubles. Brown led off the nfth with a triple and scored on Kendall's sacrifice fly. 
Brewers 4, Marlins O 

Jason Bere allowed three hits and struck out nine in seven innings to lead the Milwaukee Brewers to a victory over the Florida Marlins. 
Bere (2-0) allowed two singles in the second inning, escaping a bases-loaded jam by striking out pitcher Brad Penny to end the inning. Bere also allowed a third-inning single to Brant Brown. 
In his first start, Bere allowi:d one run on five hits with eight strikeouts in six innings, a 9-1 Brewers victory over St. Louis. 
David Weathers pitched a hit­1ess eighth inning and Bob Wickman finished the four-hit­ter. This was Milwaukee's lirst shutout since July 30. 1999. against Montreal. 
The Brewers took a 3-0 lead in the second against Penny (1­1). Geoff .Jenkins led off with a­single and Tyler llouston drnw a one-out walk. Luis Lopez hit a two-run double off the glove of center-fielder Preston Wilson and scored on Bern's single to right. 
Hon Bclliard's opened thr, sixth with his lirst home run to make it 4-0. 
Diamondbacks 5, Padres 4 
Maybe the San Di(1go Padres should have used camouflage balls when pitching to Steve Finley. 
Finley hit a pair of two-run homers to lead the Arizona Diamondbacks to a win over the Padres, who wore camouflage jerseys and green hats to honor San Diego's large Navy and Marine Corps population. 
But the Padres couldn't hide from anybody, least of all Finley, their center fielder from 1995-98 who joined the post­World Series exodus to sign with Arizona. 
Thn Padres, who looked like they'd be at honrn playing a sandlot game al tlrn Marine Corps Hecruit Depot. committed four nrrors, although they didn't contribute to anv of the Diamondbacks' runs.· 

Astros trade veteran Gooden to hometown Devil Rays 
Tampa and lives in St. amassed 2,239 strikeouts over signed Gooden to a minor ders. plus thn rest of the rota­
Associated Press 

Petersburg during the offsea­15 seasons with the Mets, league contract on Jan. 6, and tion struggling, the climatr. has ST. PETERSBURG. Fla. son, will join the Devil Rays on Yankees. Indians and Astros. he made the major league ros­changed. Dwight Gooden is coming Saturday and start that day's He was the NL rookie of the ter after going 0-1 with a 3.75 "I tried to get it lo work this home. game at Detroit. He made one year in 1984, won the Cy Young EH/\ in seven games in spring winter. Unfortunatnly it didn't," 
Desperate for starting pitch­start for Houston this season, Award at age 20 the following training. Gooden said. 1'Bul now I'm ing. the Tampa Bay Devil Rays but was not involved in the year and pitched a no hittP-r for The Astros also activated out­going to get the opportunity to acquired the 35-year-old right­decision April 8 after allowing the Yankees against Seattle on fielder Matt Mieske off the 15-come home and I'm thrilled. h and er from the Houston four runs and six hits in four May 14, 1996. day disabled list. They're going to give me a Astros for cash Thursday. innings against Philadelphia. "I haven't seen him since he Tampa Bay was one of the chance to pitch evP-ry fifth day. 
Now. thev'll find out if he can "He wasn't going to get the pitched one time against us last teams the right-hander talked That's all I can ask for." help them ·out of a tough situa­starts in Houston, and with our year," Devil Hays managAr to before signing with the LaMar is anxious to find out tion. woes he'll get some work here," Larry Rothschild said. "You Astros. But LaMar said he how much Gooden has IPf't. 
'Tm definitely overjoyed ... It general manager Chuck LaMar know the great career he had didn't want to bring Gooden "lle's had some ups and still hasn't really sunk in yet," said. "I-le brings experience and and everything. Wr,'11 just see back home if he didn't have a downs over the last couple of Gooden said by telephone from stability. And late in his career. where he is." chance to be a starter. years on the mound," LaMar Houston. "I guess once I put the what better place for him than Scott Elarton, recovering But with Juan Guzman and said. "If he's going to put it uniform on. I'll know it's offi­here." from rotator cuff surgery, will Wilson Alvarez, the club's top together at the end of his cial." A four-time All-Star. Gooden take the spot Gooden vacated in two starting pitchers, on the career. I couldn't think of a bet­
Gooden. who grew up in has won 188 games and Houston's rotation. The Astros disabled list with sore shoul-ter place to do it." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.Ill. to 3 r-lll. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Student Needed for Child Care  TEACHER WANTED: ND/SMC  SUMMER SUBLET· Beautiful 1  APARTMENT FOR  Well, Bookstore was fun while it  
During Summer Granger (near UP  families need teacher for next year  Bedroom FULLY Furnish  SUMMER SUBLEASE!  lasted.  
NOTICES  mall) family needs college student  to instruct children in home setting.  Apartment Central Air  College Park -2 bedrooms,  
lo care for 13 yr. old girl and 7 yr.  Part-time position. SalaryNacation  Conditioning On Grape Road.  Furnished. Call 243-8194  The Soup will rise again.  
THE COPY SHOP  old boy. Transportation required.  negotiable. Call 258·9707  $380/mo or best offer. Call Eric  
LaFortune Student Center  Must have references, non-smoking  254-9782  er...  
Store Hours  and experience with children. This  Seeking responsible caregiver tor 2  PERSONAL  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid  is a Christian family with profession- children. Mon. and/or Tues, 7:30­ LARGE 6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 FULL  I'm trying to keep the 90210 classi·  
Fri: 7:30am·7:00pm  al parents and good references are  5:30.  BATHS & BASEMENT. UTILITIES  Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery  fieds to a minimum.  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  available Should enjoy outdoor  Transpo & ret. necessary.  INC.  Call 631 ·COPY  
Sun: Noon-Mid  activities·tennis, swimming, biking,  $400/ROOM. 247-9808  This is the year. Time for a new,  
Free Pick-Up & Deliveryt  etc. Can provide some flexibility as  THE COPY SHOP  curseless, century.  
- Call 631-COPY We're open late so your order will be done on time!  to dates. Compensation based on experie_Qce.  FOR RENT  2 bedroom 2 bath apartment for lease during summer session. Close to campus, washer/dryer.  LaFortune Student Center EXTENDED store hours during  Roomates suck. A lot.  
Summer Server NeededFlexible  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, PAI- Call Erin 4-4238 if interested.  finals week  
Hours. Great Pay Close to Campus  VATE BATH, PRIVATE KITCHEN,  Kate dreams of becoming playboy  
LOST & FOUND  K's Grill & Pub 277-2527  LAUNDRY, PHONE, 5 MIN. N. OF CAMPUS272-0615  RENTAl HOUSES FOR 4·6 STU­DENTS WITH LARGE ROOMS.  Mon-Fri: 7:30am-Mid  bunny #5  
Full time temporary maintenance  W&D.  Sat & Sun: 10:00am-Mid  Noah doesn't know how to count  
Wanted  position available. Some experi•  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed­ 291-2209 DAVE  lines.  
Do you want to live in Turtle Creek  ence necessary. Please calf 272­ room, $1000/month 2) 2-bedroom,  Foism:  
next year? Call Angela 272-2207  1441 for a conliden!tal interview.  $500/rnonth. We'll make almost any  NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND  I don't want to be here.  
changes to the houses. Call Bill at  GOOD AREA  "... out of the indignation comes a  
SUMMER JOB: Caregiver; two chi!­ Wanted: Babysitter for 2 kids.  675-0776,  277-3097  burp. A liberating burp. It's like  I LOVE GRAPHIC ELEMENTS  
dren, ages 7&8. Mon-Fri,7:30AM·  Evenings approx. 4-9:30. Nights  Alka-Seltzer."  
3:15PM. Jun 12•Aug 18 Granger.  vary. Transportation a must. Please  3 bedroom duplex Appliances, W/D  B&B  Or not.  
272-6107 or 284-3485  call 287-6352  1 mile from campus 273-8332  287-4545  -The SinNott  Preferable not.  

Friday, April 14, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
·.. ·•,• 


page 16 The Obsm,er . SPORTS f-riday, April 14, 2000 
NFL 

Penn State's Arrington, Brown predicted to be top picks 
to San Prancisco. The 49ers gol 
Associawd Press 
a ser.ond-round pick to make the swap. NEW YORK "'\'e truly haven't made up our 
The Washington Hcdskins are minds." said Dwight Clark, expecting Saturday's draft to Cleveland's director of football propel them lo the Super Bowl. operations. The ~ew York Jt'ts an' hoping it 2. Tim Redsk.ius will get two makes lhem a contender for high-quality players to add to a 
years. And the Clevflland Browns  "You evaluate, evaluate,  team that won thP NFC  
hope they'll draft a  and evaluate, study  East  and  
player to make them respectable in their second  scouting reports and film and then go with your  madr. thr. second round of the  
season.  gut feeling."  playoffs.  
The  other  28  T  h  e  y  
teams?  reached  
Thny're just try­ Bill Polian  their  draft  
ing to find the best  Indianapolis Colts president  position with  



London Glasgow Paris Frankfurt Munich Milan Rome Athens 
player in a draft heavy on recciYers and running backs but short everywhere else. 
Thrt>e things are as certain as things can be at draft time.. 
1. Two of the first three play­ers to be chosen -linebackN LaVur Arrington or dcfeusiVf~ end Courtney Hrown -played together at Penn State. Rut where l\'o. 1 \.\'ill go is unknown. ClevPland has the first pick. but is willing to trade it for a passel of draft choices. The Jets have four first-rounders, t,"'o of them acquired this week in the trade for Kevshawn Johnson. Thev also moved up Thursday from No. 16 to No. 12. which belonged 
a seriAs of trades rentered around tho onr at last year's draft that sent Hirkv Williams to New Orleans. 
Tl{e Hedskins will take Arrington or Brown and proba­b l v offensive tackle C::hris Sa"muels or ,\labama. wilh an outside shot for wide receiver Peter Warrick of Florida Statr. 
3, For all the evaluat.ion and re-evaluation, half the 31 play­ers taken in the first round might be disappointments, and quite a few later-round choices will be stars. Jevon Kearse of Tennessee, who had 14.5 sacks and helped the Titans win· the AFC title. was taken 16th overall 
Atria Salon 289-5080 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
Book your Discount Travel at: 
cheaptickets.com 
or call 888-988-8408 
PHONE RESERVATIONS Mon -Fri 8am to 2am • Sat -Sun 8am to 11 pm 
last season. 

'Tm no genius." said Indianapolis Colts prnsidnnt Hill Polian, who has been depided as one for taking.P0ylon Manning over Byan Leaf two years ago aud Edgerrin James over Williams last year, propelling the Colts from 4-12 in '1998 to 13-:3. 
"The draft is not brain surgery." Polian said. "You ,'val­uate, evaluate u.nd evaluate, study scouting reports and film and then go with your gut feel­ing. You also need some luck." 
Luck is always a key word. 
particularly in this draft. i11 which a lot of high-pro!Hn play­ers carry question marks. 
Tbey iudude Warrick, whose stork wasn't helped by his two­game suspension in a yoar when citizenship counts; Heisman Trophy winner Hon Dayne of Wisconsin, who's considered too heavy or too slow or too injury prone and is rankod third or fourth among running backs, and Florida Statr, kicker Sebastian Janikowski, who might have been a first-rounder but misbehavPd in New OrlMns at the Sugar Bowl. 
Then them arc thP likPs of wide receiver Plaxico Burross of' Michigan State, who antagonized thr, Eagles by canceling u work­out to go to the Final Four: Deon Grant. tho Tennessee safoty who makos big plays but whose tack­ling is suspect; Dez White, thP Georgia Tech burner who drops too many passes, and Brian Urlacher, a versatile. 260-pound linebacker from New Mexko who by onc1 tr.am's count missPd 18 percent of the tackles he had an opportunity to make. 

HOMES FOR RENT 
2000-2001 SCHOOL YEAR 

-Domus Properties has 3,4,5, and 8 bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
$415 RT $494 RT $507 RT $609 RT $609 RT $696 RT $696 RT $677 RT 
Kona $637 RT Honolulu $644 RT Maui $766 RT 
---------·-----­
Major Scheduled Airlines . Overnight Ticket Delivery Available. Choose your Own Flights. 
Travel Stores: New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Honolulu and Maui 



Airfares are not guaranteed until bcketed. Fares may be non refundable and may have an advance purchase Fares do not include $3-$12 airport passenger facility charges where applicable; tax segment fee of $2.50 per takeoff/landing; fuel charges of $7.50-$20; fares to Alaska and Hawaii do not include dep~1ture taxes up to $17; lntern~tion~f taxes, fees, and surd1arges up lo $95. Fares are subject to: change, holiday or seasonal supplements; hlarkoul rlales. availability anr! other rPslriclions. 
friday, April 14, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Trunpa Bay forces extra innings, breaks past Chicago, 6-5 
Associated Press 
ST. PETEllSBUHC. Fla 

Crcg Vaughn's HBI singk with iwo 1)11is in Lim botlom or tbe 12th inning gave the Tampa Bay Devil Hays a ()-5 victory Thursdav over Urn Chir:al{o Whitt> Sox. snapping a tive-gaml' losing slreak. 
Vaughn's !inn drive lo left tinld oil' Tanvon Sturtze (0-1) drove in Knvin Storknr from second base. Thr Ikvil Hays' bullpfln held thP White Sox sr.oreless over the last scv(in innings keep Tampa Bay in thn ganw. 
.Jim ~focir (2-0), tbc fifth Drvil Hays pitrhrr. got thn win. 
ThP WhitP Sox took a 5-4 Ir.ad into the ninth. But closer Bob llowrv rouldn't finish off the Drvil llavs. who load<>d the ba,sr,s with on~ oul on lwo singles. a sacrilk1• bunt and an intnntiflnal walk Lo pinch hitter Frnd MrGrilT. (;11rnld Williams ground,,d inlo a forcP play at sr.cond. driving in a run to sr.nd tlw gam1' into extra innings. 
~1:tgglio Ordonez hit a solo homf'r. his sncond. off Tampa Bay starter StPve TrachsRl in thR third. rrank Thomas extended his season-opening bitting streak to 10 games with a RBI single that gave Chicago its 5-4 lead in the fifth. 
Jose ValPntin had a RBI double and Bay Durham drove in a run with a second-inning sar:rilkc fly for Chicago, which also scored a run when Trachsel hit Josh Paul with a pitch with the bases­loaded in the second. 
The Devil Rays, who fired pitching coad, Hfok Williams on Wednesday, got another poor performance from a startin!{ pitcher. Trarhsrl foll behind 2-0 in the second. then couldn't hold the lead after Tampa Bay rnsponded with four runs in tho bottom half of the inning. 
Yankees 5, Rangers 1 
Orlando Ilornandcz shut down Tuxas on ihree singles for eight innings and Jorge Pflsada hit a ticbreaking triple with the bases loaded. leading the I\Jew York YankP-f'S past thP-Hangers. 
The Yankees. who have won nine straig-ht playoff games 
Author 
Meet author 
Adriana Trigiani 
Saturday 
April 15th 
2-00 pm 
,n the 
Hammes Notre Dame Bool<store 
· na Irigiani 
Fil led with big time 

against TF:xas on their way to throe World Series titles sinr.o 1996, completed a two-game sweep. 
New York made it a rough homecoming for Kenny Rogers, who gave up eight hits in TPxas' first complete game this year. Bar.k at Yankee Stadium for the first time since pitching in pin­stripes in 199i, he walked two in the sixth to set up Posada's hit. 
Hernandez (2-0) gave up a sin­gle to Royce Clayton to start the game. a single by David SPgui in the second, a single to llafael Palmciro in the sixth and little else. Two Rangers rnar,hed on errors. and a two-out misplay set up their run. 
IIernandez showed the same stuff he used to beat Texas 8-0 in Ganw 1 of AL division Sflries last year. He struck out four, walked 'two and lowered his EHA to 1.13 aftPr thrne starts thi.s season. 
Mike Stanton pitched the ninth for the .Yankees, finishing the rnmbined four-hitter. 
Paul O'Neill, who batted just .1 90 against left-handers last season, had thrne hits off Rogers (l-2). 
O'Neill also showed off some nifty footwork, stopping short on a steal attempt and sneaking his cleat around ser.ond baseman Luis Alicea's swipe tag. Bernie Williams followed with an HBI single for a 1-0 lead in the first. 
Tigers 2, Mariners 0 
Juan Gonzalez, making his first homP start for Detroit, hit an HBI double to break up a sr.oreless tie in the eighth inning as the Tigers hold off the Seattle Mariners. 
Gonzalez, who hadn't started since the opener last week in Oakland because of a ri!{ht ham­string strain. started at designat­ed hitter and went 2-for-4. 
Shane Halter drew a lcadoff walk off Arthur Rhodos (0-1) in the eighth before Gonzalez scored him easily with a drive up the right field gap. 
Bobby Higginson followed with a single that moved pinch runner Karim Garcia to third, and he scored on Dean Palmer's sacri­fice fly. 
Hideo Nomo gave up four hits and four walks in six-plus 
iii Bl
s 1gn1ng 
2ccent1·ics and small-town shenanigans, Big S.:cne Ga.a is a jewel oox of original 
charz.c:.~rs. I: rs ~he ccmic 

HAMMES 
a~d ,:::,r-:-··-:~=!.ssionate story of a \Vcman -..v:10 think5 life has 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
innings. Doug Brocail (1-1) pitched one scoreless inning of relief before Todd Jones finished for his third save. 
The Tigers took two of three games in the first series in Comerica Park. 
Nomo played escape artist throughout his first Comerir.a Park start. He got out or a bases­loaded. none-out jam in the sixth en route. His EHA after three starts is 1.28. But his only deci­sion was an opening night win, and the Tigers have scored just one run for him sinr,e. 
Gil Meche went 6 1-3 shutout innings and was never in nearly as much trouble as Nnmo. 
Red Sox 4, Twins 3 
Wilton Veras drew a bases­loaded walk to break an eighth­inning tie and the Boston Hed Sox rallied to beat the Minnesota Twins 4-3. 
Nomar Garciaparra singled to load off the eighth. then Troy O'Leary walked. Carl Everett hit a double-play ball to second base, but Jason Maxwell kicked the ball around for an error that loaded the basr,s_ 
Jeff Frye hit a lly ball to shal­low left field, and Denny Ilocking threw Garciaparra out at the plate to preserve the tie. Eddie Guardardo relieved Bob Wells (0-1), walked Jason Varitek and then walked Veras to sr.ore the game-winner. 
Tim Wakefield (1-0) earned the victory with one inning of scoreless relief. Derek Lowe pitr:hed the ninth for his ser,ond save. 
Matt Lawton had three singles for the Twins. Cristian Guzman scored twice and drove in Minnesota's third run with a sar,­rifir.e fly in the seventh inning to break a 2-2 tie. 
Twins ace Brad Radke. looking for his first victory. took a 3-2 lead into the bottom of the sev­enth before giving up consern­tive singles to Mike Stanley and Scott I-Iatteberg. Veras sacrifked the runners over and .lose Offerman tied it with a sacrifice fly. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25.000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service: $2.00 -Appraisals large and small 
OPEN NOON TO SIX TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 1027 E. WAYNE SOUTH BEND, IN 46618 (2 19) 232-8444 


All Show" Before 6 PM S..t.00 $4.00 Studen1-:/Chiltln.:n/Senims 
$6_50 Atlull 
Stereo Su1rnund Sound in all The,urcs 
28 Days PG13 N•w 12:45 3:10 5:40 8:00 10:25 
American Beauty R 
1:30 4:15 7;10 9:50 
Black end White R 7;45 10:05 Erin Stockovlch R 
1:00 3:50 7:10 10:00 Final Destination R 12:50 3:10 5:20 7"50 10:15 
High Fidelity R 
1:25 4·10 7:30 10:10 Keepin!:J th& fllith PG1J New 1:40 4:25 7:15 10:00 
Ml$Slon TO Mars PG 
1·1S 4'.05 
My Dog Skip PG 
1:05 3:20 5:35 
Ready to Rumble PG-13 
2:00 4:45 7:35 10;05 
Retut'n to Me PG 
1:45 4:30 7:20 10•15 
Road to El Dor~do PG 
1:10 3'16 5:15 7:25 9:30 
Romeo Mu11t Die R 
7:20 10:10 
Rules of Engagement R 
12:55 4:00 7:05 9:55 Skulls PCl-13 1:TO 3:45 7:00 9:40 
Whine the Money Is PG-13 New 
12:50 3:05 6:26 7:40 9:45 
TO!IA'IS Tlfl\U OKll f()UI OAl l!l'IANC! TICKIT $AIU ,.AffO!W i\CtuS!ili tKO P~liS , NQ SUPUS4V!RS 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 14, 2000 
¦I 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Notre Dame looks to qualify at Mt. SAC 
By BRLA,N BURKE Sports Writer 
Last weekend Notre Dame's men and women runners and jumpers were sent home from the Miami University Invitational in Miami, Ohio, after weather conditions were deemed too harsh to compete. Weather should not be a problem whPn the Irish take a smaller squad to Walnut. Calif for the Mt. SAC Relays Saturday and Sunday. 
The Mt. SAC meet is one of most competitive on the Notre Dame schedule, and combined with the warm weather. giVf1S several ath­letes the optimum conditions for earning NCAA qualifica­tions. 
"This is one of the bigger meets as far as the quality and depth of the competi­tion." assistant coach John Millar said. "We're trying to get qualifying times for the NCAA, and the level of com­petition should give them that opportunity. The weekend off shouldn't be a problem. for some I think it might help. I'm pleased about where we're at. we expPct them to do well." 
Ryan Shay is the only mem­ber of either team to qualify automatically for the NCAA's -in the 10.000 meters ­but several other men's dis­tance runners such as Phil Mishka. Luke Watson. and Antonio Arce will look to improvC' upon provisional qualifying times. Those times were earned in Arizona throe weeks ago at the start of the season. and the return trip West will be the first time since that the Irish have high expectations of notching qualifying bids. 
Alison Klemmer is the only woman to qualify (10,000 meters) thus far and will try to better upon her provisional time of 34:30. Patty Rice is another distance runner with NCAA hopes in the 1500 meters. 
"The competition definitely makes it easier to qualify," Kif-mmer said. "It's been 70 [degrees] out there so the conditions will be better than hero." 
Of the women sprinters, Liz Grow looks to have the best shot at earning a qualifying time in the 200 or 400 meters after setting a monogram track record in the 400 meters and winning the 200 meters two weeks ago in a home dual meet. 
Marshaun West will seek to improve upon his provisional leap in the long jump, and Chris Cochran goes for a qualifying time in the 400 meters for the men. 


Fulbright Information Session for Graduate Students 
An information session for graduate students 
interested in the 2001-02 Fulbright Fellowship 
Competition will be held today Friday April 14, at 
4:00 PM in the Notre Dame Room, Lafortune. Fulbright grants afford graduate students the opportunity for study or research in over 100 countries. Awards are given to graduate students who have a clear research plan when applying. Applicants must be US citizens. 
•l 
• 
SOFTBALL 

Irish split doubleheader with Devils 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Writer 

In their el'f'ort to r.xorcise the DePaul Rlue Devils. the Irish softball team f1nishecl up in purgatory Thursday, win­ning the first game 5-1 bof'ore falling in the second game of the double­header, 4­3. 
N o t r e Dame. 32­10 overall. endod its nine-game winning streak with the loss whilli DePaul moved to 16-15 overall. 
"This is gonna be really important for us," said head 

INSURANCE 

Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwider 
The TIAA-CREF 


Advantage. 
Year in and year out, employees at education and research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
Easy diversification among a range of expertly managed funds Solid performance and exceptional personal service Strong commitment to low expenses Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options 
With an excellent record of accomplishment for more than 80 years, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader:TIAA-CREF. 
Proven Performance  
Low Expenses  
Highly Rated  
Quality Service  
Trusted Name  

w w w. t fa a• cref. o r g
; 

• According to DALBAft Inc.. afinancial services research firm. In iu most recent study, 1997 ~ned Contr~burion Ex~e1l~n,~ Ratings,11AA-CREF was voted number one in partici­pant satisfaction. TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc._ ':5stributes CREF cert1fic~t.es and_1nterests 1n the TIAA Real Estate Acco~nt. Teachers Per~al_Investors Services, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annu1t1es, mutual funds and turt1on savings agr~me-nts.TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co. issue insurance and annuities. TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust ,.,,.;,es. •--•products are not FDIC insured, may lo<e value and .,. not bank guarant-«I. for more complete infOt"mation on our securities prochxts. including charges and expenses. call 1 800 842-2776,ext. 5509, for the prospectuses. Read them carefully be'ore you 
invest or send money. O 2000 TIAA-CREF 1/00. 
coach Liz Miller br.forn the games. "They hav<~ good pitching and we need to see how we adjust to strong pitch­ing." 
And adjust they did. as Irish freshman Andria Bl0dsoe gave Notre Dame a start with a fifth-inning double and scored on a Game 1 
single  by  Lizzy  Notre Dame 5  
Lflmirc.  Freshman  
Andrea Loman sent  DePaul 1  
the  ball  over  the  Game 2  
fence for the f'irth time this season,  DePaul 4  
driving  in  three  NotreDame3  
runs.  Tlrnn Lemire.  
batting for the  sec- 

MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
now 17-5 on the srason. 
In the socond game, DePaul jumped out to an narly lead with two runs in thr, first and addi:,d another in thr. fifth. Notrr, Dame rallied in the bot­tom of the inning as junior Melanir, Alkirr, swatted her 
seventh homerun of' the season. a three­run blast that tied tlw game. 
DcPau]. howevPr, came back in the sev­en th to tak0, thr lead, and hC'ld on for thr. win. 
The Irish will face rival Boston College 

ond time in the inning. slammed another home run. putting the Irish up 5-0. 
Pitcher Jenni l'er Sharron struck out ten and held the Blue Demons hitloss until the seventh inning. Sharron is 
Saturday. The Eagles, 8-13 on the season. were picked to f'in­ish second in the ronfrn'ncc. behind Notrr DamCT. in prn­season polls. Sunday Notre Dame takes on Loyola ( HJ-11) in a doubleheader. 
'--I__

P_le_a_se_r_ec_y_cl_eT_h_e_O_hs_er_u_er_.__ 
------------:--:----...--....,..-,:-------------------,-,.,..,-:-,-,-,-_--,-,-:,-:,-,:--:--,-:--,--:--,-:--.-:--,--c,-c.-:,-:,c--,:---:--:---c-c-----:-----c---,----­
friday, April 14, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
BASEBALL 
Irish wins highlight young pitchers, sophomore talent 
By BRIAN TRAVERS 
Sporr~ Wrirl'r 
Barkf'd by strong pP,rfor­manrrs by young pitr.lrnrs, the Notn' Damn baseball team f24­8 l won two of' thn~e nrm-wnfer­rncc home games this week. b!'1tting Toledo and Bowling 
Cn\1'11, while !',tiling Lo l'urdw•. Sophomorr right-hand<'r 
Drnv Duff i2-1 f 
pitrhPd six i 111 p r (' S S i V !' innings and :\11drP1;1· Bushf'V baslwd his li,-s't lrnnw run of llw \'Par as llw I rlsh cl<'l'1•,tt,•d Tol1·do (1-:1 Thursday. 
:\l'!Pr hitting an 
"Bvrry time we play a conference game it's a dog.fight. We know 11.;e 're going to hare three rlogjf,qhts this weekend." 
Paul Mainieri head coach 
1rn1 duubl(' 

and srnring in LliP third. sopho­rnor" third basrman Bushrv knork(•d an opposit(' firld hmnr. run 11\'l'r the• IPl't l'i!'ld wall. 
Buslw,·'s honw run was t!Jp third of' his rarPcr. and his first at fak Stadium. h'liow sopho­mon• Kl'n MPVPr also raslwd in ,vith a p.ti r i,r BB I\, and has 
Bow! 
on second thought. .. By-ow! 
Happy 21st Boo Bear! 
seven hiL'> in bis last 11 at bal'i. 
Freshman Brandon Viloria stnrtrd for the Irish, setting down thr first six battrrs hrforn being relieved by Dnff. Sophomore Duff allowed six hits and three runs over the next six innings while striking out two. Senior John Corbin pitched the ninth for his snvnnth save of the 
y1'a.r and sr.hool rer.ord lhth of t.hr year. 
Tim Irish pitching staff, which entered the week rankrd sixth in the nation in team EHA. lowernd that number to 
].02 with Thursday's victory. 
II two-run S<'cond inning was all tlw Irish 1rnrdP.d Wednesdav as they drfratf"d Bowling (;re0n ~-1 brhind l'ivl' strong relief i1111i11!{s by suphomorn Malt Buchmeier. 
Tlw Irish scored tlrnir only iwo runs in the second despite hav­ing no hit-; in the inning. Bowling Grnt,n pitcher Aaron Nease (1-11 louded the bases. hitting Bushey, walking sophomore Matt Strickroth, and hitting senior captain JP-ff Perr.onte. Bushey then scored on a sacrifice tly by sophomore DII Ken Meyer. 

Bowling Green second base­man Kenny Bundinf' then made un errant throw on Steve Stanley's ground ball, allowing Strickroth to scorn the winning run. 
Buchmeier 13-1) earned the win for the Irisli, throwing five scoreless innings o[ relief, and rombined with three other Irish pitchers to limit the Falcons to four hits. Bowling Green·s only run of the ganrn c,11ne on a Sean Ryan home run off starter J.P. Ciagne in the socond. 
IIPad roar.h Paul Mainieri described the performance of thn young pitchers as om1 of tho highlights of' tho week. 
"We had sevnrnl young guys who really pitched \Veil." !\lainiori said. "Matt Buchmeier pitched fantastic for five innings." 
Senior righty John Corbin pitched the ninth for Notre Dame, collecting his sixth save of the season. 
Corbin's third strike to first batter Alan Gilhousen skipped past the catcher. allowing (;ilhousen to reach first. 
Back to back infield grounders moved the lying run to third before Corbin retired Matt Marr.um on a groundout to third. 
Two costly errors wore all that kept Notre Dame from an unde­t'e ated week. and the Purdue Boilermakers took advantage of Irish mistakes and won 7-5 Tuesdav. 
f.ive · 13oilermu.ker batters drovt in runs in tho victory, and freshman Chadd Blasko (2-1) tossed six Sfl!id innings. Freshman Matt Laird (3-2) took 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air F?\rROTC Cadets 
· ~ College is a time for decision ' · · Choose to become a leader 
..... 
j I :., 
~ 
' I 
-f './· _.,
·, -'~:' 
Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 


JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

Combined with the notable effort of the young pitching staff, Notre Dame's hitting clinched wins over Toledo and Bowling 
Green this week. 
thP loss for the Irish. 
Trailing 7-5 in the ninth. the Irish rallied and had two run­ners on base before Purdue's senior closer Andy I !elmer came on with his l.45 EHA. 
Helmer got junior shortstop Alec Porzel to line into a double play -ending his 15 game hit­ting streak -and retired Paul O'Toole to end the game. 
This weekend the Irish will travel to Morgantown. West Virginia, for throe games against Rig East rival West Virginia. 
Alec Porzel will look to contin­ue his hot hitting this weekend. The junior shortstop is coming off a career-long hitting streak and has four home runs in seven games against the Mountain­eers. 
Notre Dame leads the all-lime series 18-9 and has won eight of the last ten meetings between the teams -including wins in each of the last three Big East tournaments. 
However, Mainieri does not expect the Mountairwers to roll over. 
"Every time we play a confer­P nce game it's a dogfight," Mainieri said, "We know we're going to have three dogfights this weekend." 
The Irish will play a double header on Saturdav and another on Sunday in w·est Virginia before coming home to play a twilight double hpader Tuesday vs. Chir.ago State. 
NOTRE DAME FILM., TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
~ 
~ 7d 
TIMBERLAKE WERTENBAKER 
Directed by Reginald Bai 
Wed., April 12, 7:30 p.m. Thurs., April 13, 7:30 p.m. 
Fri., April 14, 7:30 p.m. Sat., April 15, 7:30 p.m. Sun., April 16, 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors SB All Students $6 
Tickets are available al 
Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 

r 
I 
'
I I I I 
I page 20 
t '
I 
' 
I I I 
I ' Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
that En-Pr Sucked lived up to their name as they were ousted by They Named this Thing after Us, We Ought to Have a Team. 21-19. 
Playmates Who Can Play, on Lhe other hand, didn't live up to their billing. as # I Seed moved into the seronrl round with a 21-11 victory. Zero Exposure had a moment in the spotlight with a 21-14 win over Navajo Playgrounds aud Cherokee Parks. 
Pat Riclwr's All Stars and The Uncl(\rgrouml squared off in one of thf' most com1wtitive games of the day. flicher led his team to a 2:3-21 victory in a grueling battlP that lastPrl nl'arly 1 :15. 
"IL was an intense and excit­ing game; we werfl all dead by the end," Mirhanl Nannonga, one of the All Stars. said. "They had tlw speed and we had the height. We had them bPnt down undr,r and our zon11 defense won us the game in the second half." 
The Wok was obviously too busy cooking as it forfeited its game against Orange Crush, bul www.nothingbuLnot livr,d up to its name with a 21 -4 trounr:ing of Not Checkers, Chickens. 
Seeking Employment will have to postpone its job search for a few more days, as they advanced to the serond round with a 21-16 win over Boo Yeah. Pocket rull Of. 
Tlw fourth day of' Bookstore 
NBA 
action also had its fair share of first-round blowouts. One Investment Banker and Four Guys With a Life kicked The flucket, 21 -:1, while A Business of Ferrets and ICU Ballors were botb 21-1 winners. 
Stanley's Parents Pay us to bi• Friends with Ilim topped Ringo. 21-16. John HeBd and Dan Welch turned in strong perfor­mances for ningo. but freshmen Malik Frans-Sting and Matt "Junior" ()'Rourke's inexperi­ence proved to be the deciding fartor. 
"Next ynar we nm going to work on not having such a stu­pid 1rnme," Hingo's Weir.Ii said. "Something that says we arc not losers." 
Seeded teams moved on with relative ease. No. 22 Sexual Frustration V let some of that anger out with a 21-5 victory over Team 59. 
"We haven't played oncn togntlrnr, but we're a good, quick team." Josh Brumm said. "It was an all-around effort. Everyone chipped in." 
Brumm became closn l.o senior basketball player Skylard Owens while working as a man­agnr for the tBam. Owens led the wav for Sexual Frustration Vin Th.ursday's victory. 
"We need to work on rebounding and our insidP dcf'ense," Rrumm said. "If we can defond those big football play1ws I think we'll go far." 
No. 25 Mourning Wood usod a balanced scori"ng attack to knock off The Total Package. which included football players Tony DrivBr and HonniB Nicks. 

The Observf'r . SPORTS Friday, April 14, 2000 

Bookstore Results for Thursday APril 14~ 2000 
ICU Ballers def We Lost on Extra-Topicality (21-1) www.nothingbut.net def. Not Checkers, Chickens (21-4) Mourning Wood def. The Total Package (21-14) Orange Crush def. The Wok Sexual Frustration V def. Team 59 (21-5) Jigga Who? def. Come Play With Our Dudes (21-8) Seeking Employment def Boo Yeah, Pocket Full of (21-16) #1 Seed def. Playmated Who Can Play (21-11) Depraved def Whipple Effect (21-10) 
N.E.R.D. def. Apparently We Hate Them (21-6) One Investment Banker & Four Guys with a Life def. The Bucket (21-3) Team 401 def. Shoot Your Balls at the Y The Ultimate Indiscretion def. Your Lucky Day (21-12) Ghetto-Fabulous def. We Got Worms (21-11) Pat Richer's All-Stars def. The Underground (23-21) Pretty Fly For Some White Guys def. Long-Armed Midgets Liquid Schwartz def. GP & The Kids (21-8) Shorty Got Game def. Eurotrash Megamix (21-13) Zero Exposure def. Navajo Playgrounds and Cherokee Parks (21-14) Team 223 def A Business of Ferrets (21-1) They Named the Thing After Us ... def. The Suckiest Bunch of Sucks... (21-19) Setec Astronomy def. The "Backer Babes" (21-5) We Thought She Was Legal def. Vinny's Backdoor Fantasy (21-17) Nobody Likes You Anyway, Kutylo def. YourMom.com... (21-13) 
KRIS FDRCIER/ The Observer 

Webber adds driving violation to list of legal troubles 
Associated Press 
SACRAMEI\TO, Calif. 
Sacranrnnto Kings star Chris Webber has beon cited for reck­less driving and teammate Jason Williams could face a similar charge. 
Webber was stopped after Wednesday's home loss to the San Antonio Spurs, the California Highway Patrol said Thursday. 
A Cl-IP officer said Williams was driving recklessly in the same area at the same timo. Williams was not stopped, but Officer Nick Salmeron said reck­less driving charges might still be sought. 
Write for 
Drivers can erase such cita­tions from their driving records by attending traffic school. 
Webber and Williams eacb received speeding tickets Jan. 2, after they were stopped at the same location in Sacramento County. 
Webber has had other legal problems. 
In 1998, Webber paid a $500 fine after being accused of carry­ing marijuana in a carry-on bag at an airport in San Juan, Puorto Rico. Webber, through his agent, denied any wrongdoing and said the bag belonged to a female companion. 
Later that year, a Maryland jury found Webber guilty of fail­ure to display a driver's license ollicer. possession, driving under tlrn on demand. failure to display a He was fined $560. inlluence of tho drug, resisting car registration on demand and AflBr the same trallic stop, he arrest and second-degrnn willful disobedience of a poliCB was found innocent of marijuana assault. 

,...,,!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"""""""""'!!!!!!!l!!""""'""""'""""'!!!!!!!l!!""""!!!!!!!l!!""""..,..""""....,""""!!!!!!!!!!!""'""""'!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.....!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!l!!""""!!!!!!!ffl 
Seniors, forget to purchase your tickets for Senior Week 2000 at the Ticket Kick-off from 10am-2pm today?· That's OKAY! Come to the Class of2000 Office (216 LaFun) on the following dates/times and purchase your tickets! Sunday, April 16 2pm-4pm Monday, April 17 11am-1pm Tuesday, April 18 5:00pm-7:30pm Wednesday, April 19 3pm-5pm 



,Friday, April 14, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21. 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Corrigan, Irish prepare for NCAA tournament 
lacrosse team has been on a outstanding play of the Irish and assist leader Dave Ulrich roach believes his team has to By STEVE KEPPH roll lately, winning two straight altack. which has combined for are among the biggest contrib-keep playing well ancl needs to Spm'ts Wnre, to clinch yet another lt>ague 16 goals and six assists in the utors. They have all stepped up learn from their mistakes from 
title. last two games. Top scorer their play in the recent werks early on and not repeat them The Notrn Danrn nrnn ·s This run has been led by tlrn Tom Glatzel, junior Jon I larvey after losing two straight games when it really matters. 
~~~E;:;:;;:;:;~ES~~~S~E;:;:;~~ES~SEE;:;:;aa:;~S~~E;:;:;5~E~ to Lovola and Hofstra. "We need to be patient and 

CENTEll FO" 
I¦ 
SOCIAL 
0MPUS 
CONCERNS 

" MINISTRY 
I,,
·,. " 
\l•I \ 
Join Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns as we celebrate with over 2000 faithful the traditional Latino reenactment ofour Lord's Passion and Death in the streets of Pilsen, followed by reflection and a simple lunch. 
The Hes burgh Program for Public Service 
Can you answer yes to the following questions? 
Are you interested in social problems, public policies and public affairs? Are you hoping for a public sector career? Are you looking for a concentration? Are you interested in a summer internship in the worlds of public policy and public affairs? 
The Hesburgh Program may be for you. It is an interdisciplinary concentration focusing on public policy and leadership in the American context. 
Find out about the Hesburgh Progra1n on Monday, April 17th at 6:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall 210 
The Hesburgh Progrrun is open to cur1·e11t fresh111an and sophomores from any college and major. 

''Tom Glatzel and Jon Harvey keep improving," he said. "We 
have really  have  to  keep  
been step­ping it up lately," said  "Tom Glatzel and Jon Harvey have really been  getting better and better each week and we  
c o a c h K c v i n Corrigan. "They· are  stepping it up lately. They are making plays and beginning to follow  need to contin­ue to do that if' we get to tho tournament."  
making plays and  through on their shots."  Last year in the NCAA tour­ 
beginning to follow  Kevin Corrigan  namo n t the 14th seeded  
through  men's lacrosse coach  Irish lost 14-10  

El Via Crucis 
(The Way of the Cross) IN CHIAGO PILSEN NEGHBORHOOD "The heart of Chicago's Latino Community" GOOD FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 2000 

Do you have what it takes to be an Observer copy editor??? If so, call Kerry at 1-4543 
Happy Birthday, Ben Good luck on MCAT's on Saturday, Matt & Mark Whoever wins, loses 



~~ 
. --;III 
t;.~; \,Veb Admtni5truti . n 
-=..::==­
I
I

University Web Administration 
~ 

Summer Positions 
I

I I
Come Join our ream !ill and work on !he University Web Sltel I
I ~ 
I I
D:e~:r~:~=n~s~~~:nt in HTML.. web page design or,d II lfil k.Jyou1. Farnlliar wit.h Dreomweover. Firew·orks, and 
I

I FrontPoge 2000 o plus. ~ 
I Web Page Progrom';'ing . ., ;I Requirnr:nents: F~uen1 ,_n HTMi, IJNI.X:, Pearl, F1!emcker Pro, aI JovoScrip1. Fom1f10r with SOL, /.,SP. ~ 
I I
Hours: M-F 8-5 20-40 hours a week
I ;
will work oroL•nd students class ~chedule
I '"bm, -"••'""••""•"'·....,·""·•""h'""""'"""'·'"'"' I 
El ~ ~l!I 
and make their shots. Also ,.vitb Dave Llrich playing well our altack is really r,oming together." 
This is the p!~rfoct time for the Irish to be pulling it togeth­er. after winning last week at Butler the Irish have all but guaranteed thPmselves an NCAA tournament hid. Last week's win was their fourth 
straight league vir.;tory as  they  
puHed out  a close one to  beat  
the Bulldogs 12-11.  

"Last week we played well and got the win but we made a few mistakes that could have cost us the game," Corrigan said. "We can't make those mistakes if we expect to con­tinue to keep winning." 
Heading into his ninth NCAA tournament with the Irish. the to No. 5 
Georgetown. This young Notre Dame team hopes to head back once again and get a row wins and possi­bly make a run at the champi­onship. 
But first, Notre Dame must play well in their last four games, all against non-ronffir­enr,e foes. The Irish face the Army Cadets in West Point, NY, Saturday. The No. 17 Cadets lost to the frish last year by a score 61' 15-7. Corrigan said his team will have to play physical to win this time. 
"Against Army we need to play tough and work at getting ground balls. Army is an aggressive team and we need to ·be aggressive to win," he said. 
The Hesburgh Program in Public Service, O'Shaughnessy 346, phone 631-5016 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 14, 2000 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish, Hurricanes meet to decide top seed in Big East 
South Hend this weekend !'or a By KEVIN BERCI-IOU match with very high stakHs. Tho Spom Wrirer winner wlll likely be the top seed 
for next week's Big East It's likf' the old saying goes; if it Championships. while the loser ain't broke. don't fix it. will be relegated to the second The Notre spot. Dame women's 
For Notre team has been "We' ue been really Dame. cur­rently ranked
firing on all cylin­playing well lately. We'll 
ders of late. so 14th -high­
be going with the same
head coach Jay er than the 
Lollderback lineup against Miami this Hurricanes doesn't want to weekend." who come tweak anything into this for this week­
w11ekend's end's important Jay Louderback match ranked home match head coach 45th -tlw against the match takes Miami llurricanes. on a greater importance due to "We'vr, br.en really playing Notre Dame's lack or scheduled well latelv." Louderback said. Big East opponents. 
"We'll be ·going with the same Since the Irish have yet to play line~p against Miami this week­a Big East team this year. this end. 
match will be crucial when it The Hurricanes blow into comes to seeding for next week's 
are in bloom al dorin's. 
Dine in the true spirit of Notre Dame, while experiencing the budding flavors of the season. Springtime at Sonn's brings a renewal of our menu as we honor our commitment to bringing you the finest foods available. Visit Sorin·s at The Morris Inn, .· 
l 
f~ . 
'!·~~.. -' 
··'•. :
~ 's f_.~~lJ·,'·..i·· 
~:,,--.·~ 
~77,,Morris/nn. 
· .sorinsnd.com •Reservations Recommended• 631-2020 
Tuesday April 18th, 2000 
7:30 p.m. 
Saint Mary's College Little Theatre 
Daniel Weeks 
T E N 0 R 

For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 2844626 
Thi.v f/Jncert is presented by Saint Mary'., C/JlleMe in a.rs/Jdatio11 with The Marilyn H/Jme Fou11dathm. 
BECOME A COMIC 


Attention Seniors! 
HCA Placement Opportunties Meeting 
Join us for a gathering of future and former Associates as we talk about placement opportunities for next year, Associate life in each city, and answer your questions about Holy Cross Associates. It will also be a great opportunity to meet others who are doing HCA next year. 
Pizza and refreshments will be provided! 
This Monday, April 17th at 6pm. 
@Centerfor Social Concerns Coffee House 
It's not too late to a 1 , ~o please come join us and learn more about the experience of a lifetime. 

Serving in Arizona, Colorado, Massachusetts, Ore 011, and Pennsylvania. 
http://www.nd.edu/r hcassoc/
For More Information call 631-5521 nd.hcassoc. l@nd.edu 

NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.0~ BONUS· 
Up to$145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 
SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 
tourney. The I lurricancs. on the other hand. have played sev11ral Big East matches. winning them all. 
Miami's season has be11n marked by inconsistency. Tlrny have played well at times. poorly at others. and their 1)-9 season record reflects that 
"They've rc,i!ly had an up and down kind of year," Louderback said. "They lost a real close one to Duke. but tlrny'vp. lost some matches I'd would havr, thought tlrnv'd win." 
T·he Hurricanes will br: hoping to storm in and catch tlrn Irish looking ahead to postseason play. with that charge1 being Ind by junior Alanna Brorlflrir.k. who is 20-12 in dual singles matches on tlrn year. If tlrn Hurricanes an1 to test the1 luck of' tlw Irish. they will need strong singles play right on through. 
''I'd say their strength is in sin­gles," Loudcrbar.k said. "They're solid in doubles though too." 
Junior Michelle Da..s;so has cat­alyzed rP.cr.nt wins with he1r strong play. Not only has she played brilliantly in singlP-s, she is also undr,l'catcd in double1s since rene1wing hew partne1rship with sophomore lfocky Varnum just ovor a month ago. 
"Tlrny've playe1d excPptionally we1ll together," Louderbal'k noted. "Our doubles as a whole are playing really well." 
The tandem or Dasso and Varnum will bf' tested bv the llurricanes' solid coupli~g of' Katie Bogomolova and Marcy 1lora.m, who have won sevon of their last nine matchPs. 
In otlrnr l<rnnis ne1ws. senior captain Ke1lly Zalinski will look l'or one win to surpass .Inn nil'Pr I lall as thfl school's all tim<' sin­gles wins leader this ,wr.ke1nd. 

Friday, April 14, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
:·/Rt.SO V~EAt,10 DES!! i\\E.'C NEIIE.tM'Pi: REM-L\.:E. 

Fox TROT 
SWING, SATTEl?·BATTER! SWING, SATTER-SATTER! sw,1116, BATTER-SATTER! 
I / 


BILL AMEND 
Fox, 1f 'You ...PLEASE? WALIC ONE MoRE GUY... 
'­
5 
I 
I 
I 
j; 
I !i 
And the rich keep getting riche~ ... 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Julie Christie, Rod Steiger, 
Loretta Lynn, Pete Rose, John Shea, 
John Gielgud 
Happy Birthday: You will have 
plenty of opportunities to help peo­
ple in need, but you must also be 
careful not to let anyone take ad van­
tage of your kindness and generosity. 
Do your homework and steer clear 
of organizations that are not worthy 
of your time or your money. You 
have to realize that charity begins at 
home and take care of your own 
needs first if you want to get ahead 
this year. Your numbers: 7, 12, 28, 31, 
35,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You 
had better make plans to get out and 
have some fun. You will be in the 
mood to party and will have no 
problem attracting love interests. Be 
receptive; you won't be sorry. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Don't let emotional limitations hold 
you bac1<. Problems with loved ones 
must be dealt with if you wish to be 
able to continue your relationshlp in 
a positive manner. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You 
will be able to pick up some valuable 
information if you are willing to 
listen to those who have more ex­
perience. Be prepared to do a little 
traveling if you wish to follow your 
interests. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You 
may feel financial limitations if you 
have been spending too readily on 
children or your lover. Try to orga­
nize your financial situation and 
stick to the budget you set. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may 
be reluctant to confront your mate 
today. Questioning the relationship 
that you're in doesn't mean that you 
can't make it work. Find solutions 
EUGENIA LAST 

rather than back away. Open and honest communication will bring you closer together. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): Diffi­culties with colleagues or bosses will be upsetting. It is best to do your job as efficiently as possible. Avoid talk­ing about others if you wish to keep things hannonious. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Preg­nancy or limitations due to children are likely. Don't get involved in joint financial ventures and be careful not to let family take advantage of your generosity. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can expect someone you live with to be erratic and difficult to get along with. It is best not to argue. Get to­gether with clients or co-workers, you can win points. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may want to take a closer look at your situation with relatives and in-laws. You may find that someone you least expect may not be in your comer. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may have a tendency to spend on items that are not a necessity. Think twice. You are not likely to get a good deal and may find that you're short of cash later in the day. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have ample opportunity to meet new partners. You must get out and do things that will bring you in contact with those who have similar interests. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You should concentrate on making those job changes that have been on your mind. It would be best to work in a position that will allow you the freedom to work at your own pace. 
000 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
, Some school excursions 9 "Leave!" 15 Show interest in 16 lost 17 Fill, so to speak 18 Parts of small intestines 19 "Smooth Operator" singer 20 Like a fiancee 22 According to 26 Certain services 27 Not to mention 29 Cells for women only 30 Application request: Abbr. 31 Ushered out 33 Herd members 38 Causes of tearing, perhaps 
39 Wind instrument 41 Reaction to a pretense 42 Studied in a 
hurry 43 Wife of Saturn 46 Like many 
Guinness records 47 Hook shape 48 Stay 52 It's catching 54 Statistical grouping 56 OPEC land 59 Like zombies 60 Wishy-washy response 64 Cooling-off period 65 On the way out 66 Put to sleep 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
C U B 
A T E -=-t-=-t-:-,-t-,-,-t--,,-1 
-=-t-=-t--=+:e+-e-i 

t.:-lt-::.t~-::-1-~-~~+.::-t-::..... 
67 Like the N.B.A.'s Rod Strickland 
DOWN 
1 With 32-Down, recipient of England's first trademark 
2 Its members strive for good service 
3 Scoot 
4 Blockbuster 
stock 5 Diamond stat 6 Na+, e.g. 7 Stationed 8 Station 9 Infantrymen 
1oMusical soloists 
11 Once-a-year 
travelers 
12 Valuable 
13 "Nympheas" artiSt 14 Astonished outburst 21 Football positions: Abbr. 23 Candle-lighting occasion 24 John, in Wales 25 They're often caught lying down 
r:-r.:-t:=1 27 Italian 28 Kind of light 32 See 1-Down 
,e-:+=-t--,-+,-+-1 34 Indignation 

-=+---+--+-­D E L E O R E S -,,,-+.,,.s+~,,,+,:,-! : ~::· e.g. 

37 Afternoon activities 39 Ancient Greek coin 40 Finale 
44 Indulged (oneself) in self-satisfaction 
45 NBC debut of 10/11/75 48 Witty saying 49 Cup part 50Wom out 

51 Mountain 57 French actress nymph of Greek Parillaud myth 
58 Distinction 53 1998 P.G.A. 61 A&M or RCA champ competitor 
62 "PG" cause
55 They may be given 40 lashes 63 Skill 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888•7-ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You are a bleeding heart for the underdog. You will never back away from someone who needs your assistance. You are giving, loyal, trustworthy and very kind. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 0 2000 Universal PI1!SS Syndicate 
• 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
beam.1@nd.edu 



Starling young 

Sophomores. including pitcher Drew Dr1;/J and third baseman Andreu.' Bushey, led the Irish hasehall leam to two non-conference wins this week.
PORTS 

page 19 
OTHE 

page 24 BSERVER Friday, April 14, 2000 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIX 

Competition surges as first-round games continue 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
,-\ssisunr Spon:i Edi ror 
During the Notre Dame­Oklahoma football game last ~eason. a si~n with the message 'Nobody Likes You Anyway, hutylo" flew high above Nolre name Stadium. While no one mav like senior Ben Kutvlo, he fou.nd four psuedo buddies to join his bookstore team. The five formed "Nobodv like You Anyway, Kutylo'; which knocked off Yourl\fom.com: Quirk. Easv and Affordable, 21­
13. But after the game, the ver­dict still stood: nobodv likes Kutvlo. • 
\Ve Thought She Was Legal rear-rnded Vinnv's Backdoor Fantasy 21-17 in ahighly com­petitive match-up. Mike Conklin and Rrian Smith led the wav for We Thought She Was Lega( 
"We had a pretty balamed attack. but I think our size was the difference." Conklin said. ''We had a couple of inches on all of their guys and we were able to get rebounds and sec­ond chance points." 
Sophomore Bob Hagan had nine points in a losing effort for Vinny's Backdoor Fantasy. 
The Suckiest Bunch of Sucks 

Players for the Strawlana team struggle for the ball during a first-round game on McGlinn courts. First-round play concludes see BOOKSTORE/page 20 Sunday, and the second round will begin later that day. 

FOOTBALL 

Experience proves crucial for Boi01an, young linebackers 
, 

by way of huge second half scor­this year's group is more than the men that compose the heart inherent to the position.By KEVIN BERCHOU ing outputs. Boiman chalks up ready to step up. of the Irish defense are concen­"It takes a special athlete to Spons Writer much of that to lack of experi­"Nicks was great, and he'll be trating on the little things that play linebacker," Boiman said. 
ence. a big loss," said Boiman. "But they feel will make the dream of "You have to be both strong and 
Rockv Boiman is much more "Last year was a learning we have to step up, and make a national title a reality. fast." comfortable as he surveys the year," Boiman said. "It was my sure the defense doesn't skip a "We've been working on pass­It will be this unit's primary offensive set just now placed first year at the position, and it beat." dro ps, reads, and footwork," focus to stop the run, though before him. The reads are more took some getting used to." In addition to seasoned veter­Denman s0aid. third down passing situations familiar. He Rising senior Anthony Denman ans like Boiman and Denman, "Little things like that are will often force at least one feels more was quick to echo his fellow the unit returns up and comers what the coaches are really get­backer to drop back into covr,r­at home. linebar,ker's sentiments. He too Tyreo Harrison and Carlos ting on us about. Even though agc. 
It's only was playing a new position for Pierre-Antoine, sophomores who we've only been practic:ing a "Stopping the run is our priori­spring prac­the first time. could be poised for breakout couple of weeks, you can already ty," Denman noted. "That's how tice, but Boiman is now a bona fide vet­seasons. see improvement." you shut them down." Boiman is eran outside linebacker, while Harrison saw spot duty last "We're feeling good," Boiman Boiman can't wait for the sea­confident Denman also exudes a confi­year, amidst several injuries to added. "I think we're starting to son to get underway. The only that the dence that stems only from Nicks, and that experience, see the results from our work. thing more electrifying than the linebacking experience. though limited, will no doubt Our play is improving on the color of his rich red hair is the corps. of "We want to win this yrar," help him. field, and right now we're just intensity with which he plays. which he is Denman said. "Our..goal is to win ''Tyreo got a lot of valuable real confident." While he and Denman will be an integral lhe national championship." experience last year," Denman Linebackers are oftentimes the lifeblood in the heart of the part, have While Denman's goals may noted. "I think that'll be real overlooked. It is the responsibili­defense, the unit's success will alreadv made a marked seem a reach to anyone who wit­important." ty of the defensive line to stop hinge on the ability of' Harrison irnprov.ement over last year's nessed the team's sub-par play Blue chip recruit Mike the run, and that of the sec­and Pierre-Antoine to con­group which struggled toward last season, an influx of new tal­Goolsby, of Chicago's Joliet ondary to derail an opponent's tribute. the end of the disappointing 5-7 ent that blends nicely with Catholic, is ranked bv numerous passing game. It's not infrequent Boiman just wanLc; to play. He campaign. returning experience has the services as one or'the top 20 that those units get the lion's is anxious to show people that 
The defense would tend to linebackers in particular believ­recruits at any position, and share of the praise in good this year the linebackers will be show signs of wear in the latter ing that anything is possible. could compete for a regular spot times. along with the blame in nothing but an asset. If it's up to stages of games. Tennessee and The unit loses senior leaders in the rotation. the bad. him, the defense won't be suffer­Stanford are just two of the Ronnie Nicks and Joe ferrer to With the personnel base for an What makes a linebacker ing any more late-game collaps­teams that defeated Notre Dame graduation, but Boiman believes excellent linebacking corps set. unique is the versatility that is es. 


• 
. Track and Field at Yale at Army
SPORTS ~.at Mt. Sac Relays (Calif.) Saturday, 1p.m. 1; Saturday, I :30 p.m. 
.
Men's Golf 

.;r Friday, TBA 
ar Ohio State Kepler
ATA 
lntercollegiace 

vs. Miami ac Ball Scace Baseball 
Friday-Saturday 
(I)

~ 
Saturday, IO a.m. Saturday, I p.rn. at West Virginia 
GLANCE • 
Saturday, 4 p.m. 





