Acomedic meeting 
Round two 
Movie critic Jude Seymour reviews the new 

Thursday
Presidential candidates Al Gore and George W. 
.film "Meet the Parents ... starring Ben Stiller 
Bush squared off Wednesday night in the 
and Roberl DeNiro 
second oftheir three scheduled debates. 
OCTOBER 12,
Scene . page 10 
World & Nation . page 5 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 38 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Concern spurs changes in ND sex assault policy 
sexual assualt. 2001 rdition of the student campus. Representatives from ever, question if these changes
. But some claim 
"What we're looking at is handbook, du Lac, states that the student body, faculty, vari­will be enough.
officials should take 
how Lo address the issues that "student victims will not be ous University offices, Saint additional steps came up. We're trying to be subject to disciplinary action" Mary's and Sex Offense A long way to go 
very responsive," said Bill in connection with alcohol or Services, among others will sit Kori's concerns about sexual Kirk, assistant vice president parietal violations related to a on the committee. assault at Notre Dame are the By JASON McFARI.EY for Residence Life. sexual assault. . A staff or faculty member type that perhaps only come As,istanr News Fditor Kirk said that meetings last . Two brochures detailing will be appointed by ResLife from a firsthand knowledge of summer with representatives resources and courses of as an official resource person the issue. She's had her share 
Prompted in part by student from the offices of Student action for sexual assault vic­for campus rape victims. of it, first as a rape victim in concerns last spring about Affairs and Residence Life tims will be printed this acad­"They might seem merely 1997 and then as an outspo­rape on campus, Notre Dame yielded four changes to the emic year. cosmetic, but these are cer­ken champion for victims' officials recently announced a way the University handles . A committee will be estab­tainly significant changes," rights and an advocate for set of changes aimed at bol­cases of alleged sexual lished to advise University offi­said Dennis Moore, director of increased campus support ser­stering the University's assault: cials on issues and procedures public relations. responsiveness to victims of . A change in the 2000-pertaining to sexual assault on Sexual assault victims, how-see CHANGES/page 4 


Breezing through the Windy City 
Green Party leader makes campaign stop in Chicago 
By NICK SWEEDO News Writer 
When Ralph Nader stepped to the podium to greet the packed Illinois University at Chicago pavilion in Chicago, he received a thunderous standing ovation louder than the aver­age Joyce Center pep rally. 
Nader, the Green Party presidential candidate and founder or the modern consumer movement, has been traveling across the country trying to gain support for not only his candidacy but also for a new progressive movement. The event included appearances by Pearl Jam lead singer Eddie Vedder and talk show host Phil Donahue. All had high praise for Nader's character and integrity. 
"I would like to thank Ralph and the Green Party for giving people who care something to believe in," said Vedder. 
Nader's address to the crowd covered two main points. He bemoaned the power that corporate America has over the working man and illustrated how lit­tle difference there is between a vote for Bush and a vote for Gore. 
"About 20 years ago, something start­ed to happen," said Nader. who refuses 

to accept soft money contributions. "The two parties became vigorous competitors for the same business cash in their campaigns. They began to increasingly morph into one corpo­rate party with two heads wearing different make-up. We saw that on the debate in Boston. 
according to Nader. 

"On more and more of the issues of structural power, the Democrats and Republicans are on the same page. And look at where they're on the same page. They're on the same page now on that notorious WTO/NA'FTA [World Trade 
"/ would like to thank Ralph and the Green Part for giving people who care something to believe in." 
Eddie Vedder musician 

Organization I North American Free Trade Agreement] that subvert­ed our democratic processes and our health and safety standards in the workplace environ­ment and marketplace. George Bush and Al Gore want more WTO, more NAFTA. They're on the same page in taking your of son money and their ties to ·business­es, Nader said the two major political parties have allowed the money of large corporations to fuel the democratic cam­paign process. 
"The civil society whose forebears brought us the social justice that we have in this country is being closed up by a company of political parties, whose prin­cipal interest is raising money in the same powerful corporate interests in order to re-elect them, so they can go to Congress and the White House and fol­low the marching orders of their corpo­rate paymasters," Nader said. 
"Now that is undermining our democ­ratic society in a very profound way. Corporations were designed years ago to be our servants; they have become our masters. That has to be changed, and it can be changed by a powerful, new Green Party movement,'' he said. 
see NADER/page 7 
FACULTY SENATE 
Malloy links tight budget to ND growth 
By TIM LOGAN Senior Staff Writer 
Quality costs money, and Notre Dame will have to spend a lot of money if it wants to continue to provide a high quality education to its students, University President Father Edward Malloy told the Faculty Senate Wednesday. 
T h e "Generations" fundraising cam­paign topped the $1 billion mark last month, but Notre Dame's growth, much of which has been spurred by that campaign, is creating a financial crunch, according to Malloy. 
"We have a new reality at Notre Dame today," he said. "The University has grown in size, complexity and com­petitiveness." 
New buildings require more money for maintenance. Expanded academic programs need funding for research and classes. And, most significantly, increasing the size of the faculty neces­sitates a lot of spending. 
One of the goals of the "Generations" campaign is to hire 150 new profes­sors. The University is approaching that mark, and will continue to increase the faculty until it is reached. Administrators are also trying to keep Notre Dame in the game in an ever­escalating bidding war for top acade­mics. 
"If we are going to be a great univer­sity in the very best sense. then we need to be competitive for the very best faculty," Malloy said, but he acknmvl­edged that that would not be easy. "If we're going to be competitive, it's going to cost us a lot more money than in years past." 

sec FINANCES/page 7 

That meant, of course, it was really one corporate party. Political competition diminished after that." 
However, corporate influence does not end with campaign finance issues, tax dollars in the hundreds of billions ;ind funneling them into corporate wel­fare programs. subsidies. handouts, give­aways." 
Criticizing Bush and Gore's acceptance page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Smudging our identities 

As you may know. Wednesday was National Comin~ Out Day. For the past several years, studenl'> at Saint Mary's College have used this day as a cele­bration of diversity and to show their solidarity with thosn struggling with issues uf sexual identity. 
Various ways students choose to show their sup­port include rainbow ribbon distribution, the provision of Amanda Greco information concerning com­munity issues regarding Scene Editor homosexuality and the appearance of signs posted by student groups. 
Most ·ecognizable, though, are the chalk-written phrases adorning the sidewalks on Saint Mary's campus. 
Early Wedm~sday morning, a group of dC'dicated student, -homosoxual. bisexual, curious and straighl -sacriliced sleep and mid-term studying to show their support of human sexuality and their 'opposition to discrimination. The phrases appearing on the wncrete that morning ranged from "hate is not a family value," to "happy National Coming Out Day" to "support your brothers and sisters struggling with se:mal id1mtity." 
Thcs<· sayings were in no way intcnd<'d to advo­cate or prornole homosexuality. Hather, they were scrawlf'd in the same spirit a.<; sayings written during SMC Pride Week. 
I 
IlowE v1ff, they wen· not received in the same rngard. Throughout the day, students were seen chw,inp the phrases across the sidewalk, pouring watnr on them and smudging out the messages with their i'c,Jt. Belles were overheard making derogatory statements about homosexuality, and some students 1:elt ,L<;_,though the issues were being "shoved in their tacos. 
It is well known that not all students in the Notre Dame/2'.:ainl Mary's community arc Catholic. 
I lowever, the presence of religious icons and crosses 
I rarely offend those or other denominations. We arc 
' all knowingly attending institutions holding strong 
I 
religious affiliations. But, are we not also attending institut; ems that pride themselves on diversity and the acceptance and forgiveness implicit in their Catholk faith? Saint Mary's students should have pondcrnd this Wednesday when they stomped out other s1.udents' expressions of free speech and defiled the images of pride for all -pride that both campwrns are so greatly in need of. 
I lad Lhcse incidents occurred in relation to the cel­ebration or other groups attempting to express their unity--African Americans. Hispanics, Women's Hight.<; .1ctivists -surely. the discrimination would have bmm obvious and the disapproval resounding. 
Many people disagreed with the display of crosses covering the lawns on campus this past weekend. Yet, no one was so disrespectful as to remove the crosses to quiet the message they sent. Saint Mary's studcn:s would have been wise to exhibit such respect when viewing the letters that appeared on their sidewalks. 
Showing support'for a group does not automatical­ly imply inclusion in the group. I am Caucasian, but I whole-heartedly support minority heritage and pride. Many men pride themselves on being active fcminii:L<;. Showing respect for those honored on National Coming Out Day docs not require being homosexual. As one of the phrases on the sidewalk staled, "Be straight; be gay;just be." 
What is perhaps most disturbing about these events is how the same students who will fight so strongly to stop discrimination for other groups will so readily turn around and dismiss efforts that stand to honor everyone. Members of our community cling lightly lo their faith; but these acts belie all that ChristLmity upholds. If you are a Christian here on campus, please re-read the Ten Commandments. "Love 1hy neighbor" is not contingent on sexual ori­entation or any other sign of diversity. If you arc not Christi.cm, I should hope that you are human enough to not turn your uack on those in our community who srek your support and respect 
'/'he oiews expressed in the Inside Column are lhose of lhe aulhar and nol necessarily those of "/'lw Ollserver. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Jason McFarlcy Matt Nania I ldcna Payne 
Graphics 
Courtney Boyle 
Dana Mangnuson Sports 
Production 
Kerry Smith 
Jc fT Baitruzak Viewpoint 



Lab Tech 
Ncmo Ot!cwski Ernc.w Lacayo 

The 01,,,rvcr (USPS ~99 2-4000) i, puhli,h,d Monday through Friday cxc,pt during c1<am and vaution period.'.). The Observer is a mcmbL'.r of the Associ•ttd l'rt>S. All rcp1oduuiou 11gh1s ,re reserved. 
Thursday, October 12, 2000 
The Observer . INSIDE 

THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Lecture: "Progressing  . Meeting: Confidential  . Lecture: "Members of  . Art: Hamiro Rodriguez  
Toward Settlement," 12:30  AA Meeting, 9:30 a.m.,  the Committee on Notre  Exhibition. all day, 230  
p.m., C-103 Ilcsburgh  Clubhouse  Dame's Position on the  McKenna Hall  
Center  . Dance: Fulk Dance  Ordination of Women:  . Children: Children's  
. Lecture: History Week  Group, 7:30 p.m.,  Heligion and Intellectuals,"  Dispensary Fun and Learn  
Speaker: Laura Craigo  Clubhouse  730 p.m., Faculty Lounge.  9 a.m., llavican Hall and  
7:00 p.m., HCC/Welsh  llesburgh Library  Angela Athletic Facility  
Parlor  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Court rules McGill U. Daily's lease is invalid 
MONTREAL "We 're arguing a valid lease, SSMU's does. 
The McGill Daily docs not have a "We're arguing a valid lease, and
and secondly that [the Daily] 
valid lease, ruled Judge Irving secondly that !the Daily) has a right to Halpern at the conclusion of court has a right to occupy the occupy the premises as a result of the proceedings last week at the Palais de premises as a result ofthe agreements between the Daily and the Justicf'. The ruling concludes a four­University," argued Bergman. "The
agreements between the Daily 
month lawsuit between the Daily and sum total of the documents, letters the Students' Society of McGill and the University." and behaviors of' parties involved con­University over a lease dispute after stitutes a lease. The lease continues SSMU deemed it necessary to lock the because it is co-continuous with that
Michael Bergman
paper out of its otTicl'.'s. of the SSMU."

attorney

The Daily's primary contention was Bergman furthermore argued that that although there was no signed at the time of the original lease, the physical lease, past behavior between SSMU did not exist. and in its place SSMU and the Daily constituted a was a body callPd the Student Centre\
the Daily. The focus on the Daily'slegally binding agreement. right to be in Shatner, Bergman of McGill University. Michael Bergman, attorney for the argued, is that the lease between As the SC!\-tU was not an incorporat­Daily, argued that lease arrangements McGill University and SSMU for the ed entity in 1991, Bergman argued made between SSMU and clubs building, is co-terminant with the that it could not enter into a lease, housed in the University Centre build­and therefore the original lease was
lease between SSMU and the Daily;
ing in the mid-1990s did not apply to between th1~ Daily and McGill.
that is, the Daily's lease expires when 
TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
Petition fights bonfire restriction 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Concerned that a hallowed tradition will turn into a hollow gesture, a group of students is circulating a peti­tion urging Texas A&M University administrators to reconsider the limitations placed on future Aggie Bonlires. The petition is protesting the elimination of "cut," limited student involvement and leadership in building Bonfire, and the two-year hiatus of the tradi­tion. According to parameters set by A&M President Dr. Ray Bowen, when Bonfire resumes in 2002, it will be built with precut lumber under the close supervision of a professional engineer. "In talking to other students, I found that most don't support an off-campus bonfire, but they don't support Bowen's restrictions either," said Becky Bartschmid, a petition organizer and sophomore journalism major. "But so far, the administration isn't listening, and the Student Senate hasn't really spoken for the students." The petition was initiated and already has 300 signatures, Bartschmid said. 
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 
Students desire Internet law classes 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

In this age of cyber-communication, more law stu­dents are seeking classes in the growing field of Internet law. While some law schools have already cre­ated centers and special programs to accommodate stu­dents' increasing demands, the University of' Virginia only recently began to increase its number of Internet law classes. Law professor Daniel Ortiz said he has had to teach two sections of his Internet-related class for the first time this semester because demand was so high. "There were students who came to my office after they found out they couldn't get in," Ortiz said. Second­year law student Matt Branson said he was disappoint­ed not to get into Ortiz's class. "It seems like we're still in the process of figuring out what we're going to do," Branson said about the lack of Internet-related classes at the Law School. Professor Hobert O'Neil said he faces a similar problem each fall, when he offers his "Free Expression in Cyberspace" class: Too many students are applying for the limited number of slots. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Uiy South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather<" forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 12. 
\!""-// 
1 


Thursfay 
Friday1 
I 

Satur~ay 
FRONTS: 

Sund~y 
............
C 2000 Acc:uweather, Inc. COLD WARM S(ATIONARY 
/ @'''"To DODD .. 
High Low ShuWcH• Rain T••tornt• Flllrrfa• Snow lee Sunn';' P1. Cloudy Cloudy

Monday

~-) .,,~J·••·,, '\.., ~,r,\_..} 
.. \ Atlanta 77 48 las Vegas 71 51 Orlando 82 62 Boston 68 46 Los Angeles 69 53 St. LOUIS 75 55 Chicago 73 48 Miami 84 75 San Francisco 69 46
4 ..~..~q.6.}Q (f ~ d 
De11var 55 35 Nashville 75 44 Seattle 57 44 
Showers T·slorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Detroit 71 46 New York 69 51 Washington DC 73 48 
Via Associallld Press Graph,csf\le( 
.....-.------­

Thursday, October 12, 2000 The Obrerver . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Members cite alleged gay bias 
By AMY GREENE 
N,,ws Writer 
"Coming Out Day" and deface­ment of student displays head­lined the Board of Governance meeting on Wednesday. 
"Every year pPople across the nation and in colleges experi­ence 'Coming Out Day,"' said board member and feminist Collective representative Julie Frischkorn. 
Prischkorn discussed the unfairness that some students experience when students deface the signs or gay-themed paraphernalia they display. 
"I don't have a problem with people sharing their different viewpoints," said Frischkorn. "But at the same time it's unfair for students to discriminate by taking down and defacing signs. We do not need that on this campus." 
Frischkorn also said that the Feminist Collective has been discriminated against in the 
,t-pizza 
past. 
"When the Right to Life groups placed a cemetery in front of' McCandless no one spray painted or defaced those crosses," she said. 
In other BOG news: 
. A sister-dorm program between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame could be a new BOG pro­ject in the future. Juniors Asra Ashraf and Gina Caponi recently met with some Notre Dame women who wrote a letter to The Observer regarding the junior class T-shirt. 
"I felt threatened by the let­ter," said Ashraf about the T­shirt letter that caused friction between the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame student bodies. 
"We wound up meeting Sunday, ordered pizza, and talked for hours. We gave them a tour of campus and it was a really great experience for all of us," said Ashraf. 
"I think a social event with the women of Notre Dame and Saint 

~E-Pasta $6. 
~~salad 

Mary's would really help to get rid of the stereotypes," she added. "We will be around each other for a very long time and the women of both schools should really get to know one another." 
Ashraf and Caponi proposed a sister-dorm program as a possi­b I e solution to reduce the stereotypes. 
"Overall we've had a positive experience with Notre Dame women, and ther,e are definite possibilities with the women there and here to start a pro­gram. In a sense, we are sis­ters,"' said Caponi. 
. ROG will be "walking around campus to address secu­rity issues on campus after fall break," said Crissie Renner, stu­dent body president. 
Students' concerns about security on campus have recent­ly increased, and BOG will work with security to address con­cerns. 
. BOG announced that trick­or-treating in the residence halls will take place Oct. 30. The senior SYR is scheduled for Nov, 
3. Fall Day On Campus is Nov. 5. The "Showcase of Careers" will be held in LeMans lobby Nov. 9. Senior Dad's Weekend is sched­uled for Nov. 17 to 19. 
HPC serves several roles on ND campus 
to promote their events, and 

By KRISTIN ALLEN 
dorm presidents often bring 

News Writer 
messages from their rectors to disperse among the halls. 

Every Tuesday night, the 
"It's a great way to get in presidents of Notre Dame's touch with all of campus at 

residence halls file into 
once," said Rak. 

LaFortune for their weekly In addition to dorm presi­
Hall Presidents Council 
dents, the council consists of 

(HPC) meeting. 
two co-chairs and an eight­"Hall Presidents Council is 

person executive cabinet, 

a good place for presidents positions filled by past hall 
to get ideas for how to solve problems in their dorm or for programs to run in the dorm," said Katie Rak, event coordi­nator of HPC. 
"HPC works for the presi­dents," said Kate Stephan, president of Welsh Family H a l l "Basically, [HPC] makes 
"HPC is just another branch ofstudent government. It acts as a representative ofresidence life. [It's] mission is to carry out a successful and happy stay in the dorm." 
Kate Stephan Welsh Hall president 
presidents. 
This year, HPC added a new cabinet member who is in charge of service. 
Rak said this addition is positive because the new chair serves the dorms by holding their service com­missioners responsible for 
doing their jobs. The service 

sure the leaders of' each chair also helps dorms 
dorm are running things develop project ideas. smoothly." 
"It's a good way to facili­

Speakers come from all 
tate campus wide service,"

different groups on campus said Rak. 
TbuPSdoq& oPe students night. .Students Peceive 25% off meal pPlce witl-a qouP sfudcint I.D. 

M1dii1ano' s most unique dininq ••P••i•nce Lccafed Jn ti.a bH-Wer-11 ot tLe HisfoPie 100 Cenfer in Misl.awalco (219) 257-1792 www.100center.com 
oo•oo 
I 
~, /\Ssoc.
t-.-rl]
I 
CENTER FOR 

#lit~,::.
SOCIAL -0
I 
< ::i
CONCERNS
I 


i 
Thinking about how to spend next summer? Want to gain valuable experience? 
I 

; 
I THE SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT
i 

IS YOUR ANSWER! 
I • SPEND 8 WEEKS PROMOTING SOCIAL JUSTICE THROUGH DIRECT SERVICE 
~ • CHOOSE FROM OVER 120 SITES ACROSS THE NATION • EARN 3 THEOLOGY CREDITS (wr!l-1 POSSIBLE CROSSLISTS) 
i 
• RECEIVE A $1900 TIJITI0N SCHOLARSHIP FOR THE FAU. 2001 SEMESTER 
~ 

• MAKE VALUABLE CONTACTS WITH ND ALUMNI 
I 

THINK ABOUT IT...
I 
~ 

• INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS AT THE CENTER P0R SOCIAL CONCERNS 
I 

i 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24 AT 6:00 PM WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8 AT 7:00 PM 
~ 

I 
TIDJRSDAY, NOVEMBER 30 AT 7:00 PM 
~ 
;
i
I
I
I
i
i
i
i
;
I 
~ 
i
;
; 
~ 
I
I
I
I 
I~ 

oo•lfil 
"HPC is just another branch of student government. It acts as a representative of residence life," Stephan said. "[Its] mission is to carry out 
a  successful  and  
happy  stay  in  the  
dorm."  

Another important HPC function is to dis­perse student govern­ment-provided money to dorms. 
The council has a budget committee, consisting of the HPC treasure and several dorm presidents, which allots those funds, Stephan explained. 
However, dorms only receive funds after a formal appli­cation process, according to Rak. 
As a result, not every dorm gets exactly what it requests. The budget committee will some­times grant all or part pf the money request­ed, but in certain cases the committee will reject an applica­tion. 
A dorm has the option of going a for­mal review process if it is not pleased with the committee's deci­sion. 
In the interests of equity, HPC tries to balance the budget committee with mem­bers from each cam­p us quad and from both male and female dorms. 
The council also tries to avoid picking budget committee members whose dorms served on the committee in the pre· vious year, said Rak. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 12, 2000 
C:hanges 
continued from page I 
vices. 
Yet from where she stands now a 21-year-old University senior, three years removed frc m her attack Kori says time has do 1e little Lo quell her !'cars about rape hap­p l' n in g here or her reserva­tions about the manner in which the University responds to it. 
"There's still a long way to go," Kori said. "People in gen­era.I still have a way to go. Not.re Dame has a way to go." 
But following the procedural chHngcs this fall. University officials hope they have made some ground in addressing the needs of campus rape victims and raising overall student awarr,ncss on the subject. 
"The University has received a lot of suggestions from both students and staff members concerned with the matter," said Moore. "Some of their concerns can be addressed easily, some can't." 
The issue became a source of controversy at Notre Dame anc Saint Mary's last spring, af'Lnr The Observer reported on the alleged rape or a female University student. When the woman opted not to take any course of action age.inst her alleged 


assailant, many students openly  "The University has received a lot of  cate. "The  hear­ 
dee ried the closed-door nature and lim­ited power of the  suggestions from both student and staff members concerned  ings are an educational process. All' of us advocate for  
campus discipli­nary hearings  with the matter."  all the students involved in the  
offc red through the University's  Dennis Moore  process. We're about educa­ 
0 ff ic e  of  director of public relations  tion,"  Kirk  
Hesidencc Life. T 10 concern  said, noting the difference in  

prompted both campuses to function between University hold sexual assault forums procedures and the criminal and lectures with rape victims justice system. as ~:uest speakers.. Also adding Kirk said because of possible to the discourse was a South lawsuits the University is also Bend Tribune four-part series concerned with maintaining dealing with on-campus rape fair and consistent disciplinary 
See Our Web page For Details "V,."\) .i\,f(t,. On Contests And Specials 
~cLURJ 
www.nd.edu/,.,asc • 11 
A 
,f", 
~N10 
~tumV'ii-<SaV\te-r-Ctub 
J-l4~tewaaV\ r4-r-tY 
i,VIDMIIDAY, C)CTOBER 25TH 
fflRfT W£DNErDA.YAFTER BREAK) 

CET READY FOR c~o,TUM.El, PRIXII, AND FUN ~.TT~( ~~B't TRAJ>J.l:IOMAI. 
. H~l~lf&M 
and an Observer feature arti­
cle detailing a 1997 rape in a 
Notre Dame residence hall 
and the victim's experiences 
throughout the disciplinary 
hearing that ensued. 
'Tm excited that we've iden­
tified positive changes. We're 
trying to do more now," Kirk 
said. 
But Kori isn't so sure. 
While she said that any changes University policy undergoes to make sexual assault procedures more vic­tim-frieQclly arc "a step in the right direction," Kori admitted that the changes are a little less than she might have hoped for. 
"To be honest, I'm surprised that I've seen any changes in my time here. But the changes aren't ideal," she said. 
Calling for an advocate 
What concerns Kori most is that the proposed changes do not include the hiring of a full­time victim's advocate. 
The staff or faculty member who will eventually be hired as a resource person will not fill the role of an advocate, according to Kirk. Kirk said there are currently no plans to hire an advocate. Several uni­versities around the country employ advocates. 
Kirk said hiring an advocate would add an adversarial tone to disciplinary proceedings and the University might also feel obligated to provide an advocate for accused students. Last summer, representa­tives from the University Counseling Center made a for­mal proposal to the Office of Student Affairs. supporting the hiring of a pro­fessional advo­

procedures. In past years. some of the University's rul­ings in disciplinary hearings 
have been overturned by 
courts, but Kirk didn't confirm if the rulings involved cases of' 
alleged sexual assault. 
Heavy alco­hol consump­tion by both parties and familiarity with each other also complicates on-campus rapes, Kirk said. 
Moore said, in most cases, students in disciplinary hearings 
While the rules arc 'Tm glad to have seen now made 
explicit, it's
changes like this while 
been the 
I'm still a student here. I University's hope the University long-stand­
ing policy to
continues to be 
disregard
responsive to the needs such viola-ofsexual assault victims." 
tions in cases or alleged sexu­
Kori 

al assault. rape victim While the 
judged guilty or sexual assault 
have been expelled from the 
University. Kori said her 
attacker was dismissed in 
1998. 
Official crime statistics indi­
catfl Notre Dame is a safe 
campus when it comes to sex­
ual assault. 
Figures from campus Security/Pulice report one forcible rape in 1999 and two forcible rapes and a forcible fondling in 1998. 
Kori applauds other efforts at Notre Dame. 
"Nobody wants rape on this campus, but that's not going to happen. At least we're tak­ing small steps to address it," said Kori, who, since her rape, _has spoken at Freshman Orientation and in campus dorms and served as a peer advocate for others involved in disciplinary hearings. 
Implementing the changes 
Kori pointed to the change in du Lac as a positive step toward getting victims to come forward. In the past. many students may have feared punishment for underage drinking or parietal violations, she said. 
The new rules state students will not be disciplined for these offenses. 
change to du Lac has already taken effect, other changes will be gradually implemented 
throughout  the  semester,  
according to Kirk.  
One  of  two  proposed  

brochures underwent a limit­ed printing and is already in circulation, available in vari­ous offices around campus. It takes text directly from du Lac regarding support services available to victims of sexual assault. 
The other brochure will be for HesLife use and will restate disciplinary hearing procedures "more simply," Kirk said. It should be avail­able in January. 
/\lso in January, Kirk expects a resourcf' officer to be in place. Kirk said if need arises, he will look into the prospect of' making the role a full-time position. but that person would have duties sr,p­aratc from an advocate. 
Work on the proposed sexu­al ai-;sault committee is under­way. Kirk said several mem­bers have been selected for the committee, and an organi­zational meeting is tnntatively schcdulr.d for sometime after mid-semester break. 
"The committee won't serve as a legislative body," Kirk said. "But to the extent that they provide good suggestions. we'll implement them." 
That's encouraging news to Kori. 
"l 'm glad to have seen changes while I'm still a stu­dent here. I hope the University continues to be responsive to tho needs of sex­ual assault victims," Kori said. 
120 North Main St 

(219) 255-7737 Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 
Fax: (219) 259-9579 

~!'i -~ 
Restaurant 
T.J. Laughlin 
General Manager Class of 1973 


ATION 

Thursday, October 12, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
European kids impoverished: At least 50 million children in eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union live in poverty and are exposed to levels of tuberculosis usually associ­ated with the Third World, a new report says. The report, titled "The Silent Crisis," was released Wednesday by the European Children's Trust, a non-governmental organiza­tion. Titled "The Silent Crisis," the report said poverty in the region has increased more than tenfold over the last decade. 
Israelis accept mediator: The United Nations often has been viewed in Israel as favor­ing the Arabs. However, Israel's acceptance of Secretary-General Kofi Annan as a Mideast mediator is evidence of a reccmt change in Israel's attitude to the world body. The traditional anti-Israeli voting pattern by the 
U.N. membership certainly hasn't disap­peared. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
House debates education: The addi­tion of 13 federal education programs and $10 billion in spending over the past four years have failed to improve students' reading and science scores, a House panel said Wednesday. GOP leaders said the report by a House sub­committee's Republican majority justifies the push for their education agenda: state freedom from federal spending rules, tax-free savings accounts for private and parochial schools, vouchers and expanded charter schools, and the conversion of $3 billion worth of programs into general grants. 
Judge orders Ford recall: A judge ­took the unprecedented step Wednesday of ordering the recall of as many as 1. 7 million Ford cars and trucks sold in California, accus­ing the automaker of concealing a dangerous design flaw that can cause the vehicles to stall in traffic. The ruling compounds Ford's troubles as the automaker tries to steer its way out of the Firestone tire recall crisis. Ford has insisted all along that the ignition module at issue is safe. and it said it will appeal the ruling. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Hawkins sentenced for killinginfant: A man who pleaded guilty to reck­less homicide in the death of a 4-month-old baby has been sentenced to seven years in prison and a year on probation. David Hawkins, 24, of Griffith was sentenced Tuesday in the death of Jacob Shebish, also of Griffith. Hawkins, the boy's godfather. told police he struck Jacob while he was baby-sit­ting. Before the sentencing, Hawkins apolo­gized to the family. 
Market Watch 10/11 

Dow 
10,413.79 -110.61

]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same; Volume:
L261 496 
1,181,516,544 
AMEX: 922,42\: ,,..0,52 Nasdaq: 3168.49 -72.05 
• 
NYSE: 


S&P 500: 1364.59 -15.0 I 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURI1Y %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE INTEL CORP (INTC) -5.81 -2.18 35.38 LUCENT TECH INC (LU) -32.27 -l0.12 21.25 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) ,0.13 -tO.06 51.19 MOTOROLA INC (MOT) -18 . .ll -1.ff I l l.4•i MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) .2.18 +l.18 15.75 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
CAMPAIGN 2000 
Candidates take softer tone in debate 
defending humanitarian and nation­interest on, if you know what I mean," 
Associated Press 

building missions and Bush warning he said with a smile. that the U.S. forces are overextended. The candidates agreed in many
\VINST0N-SALEM, N.C, 
By turns polite and prickly, Al Gore "I would be judicious about how we remarks on many matters, but and George W. Bush debated stark use our military," said the two-term clashed often on foreign policy, hate differences on a wide range of issues Texas governor. crime legislation, same-sex marriage, 
The policies of President Clinton and gun control, health care, taxes and the 
Wednesday night. treading carefully to avoid offending voters or breaking former President Bush loomed large environment. Time and again the 
over the second of three presidential rivals took pains to stress their agree­precedent with their presidential men­
tors. debates. Gore suggested the United ments, sensing that voters are turned 
It got a little bit personal in the end States could have saved lives if the off by conflict. Gore, in particular, had to keep things lively. Clinton administration had acted ear­to mind his manners after his heavy 
Seeking an advantage in their nip­lier in Rwanda and Bush chuckled sighs and interruptions put off some and-tuck race for president, the major slightly when asked to assess foreign voters in the last debate. party candidates painted different interventions spearheaded by his "It seems like we're having a love visions of the role of American mili­father. fest tonight," the Texas governor said tary power overseas, with Gore "Some of them I've got a conflict of at one point. 
PERU 


AFP Photo 

Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori talks to Justice Minister Alberto Bustamante and Eduardo Latorre outside the Government Palace in Lima. Fujimori announced the disbanding of the Peruvian National Intelligence Service. 
Fujimori orders spy agency to close 
tle the agency, a measure join the government's rul­and urged Peruvians to 
.Associated Press 

promised by Fujimori in ing party. The scandal avoid deepening polariza­
LIMA mid-September. erupted last month, forcing tion. 
President Alberto Opposition leaders and Fujimori to announce new "What we are looking for Fujimori's government on human rights groups have elections next year in is stability -that does not Wednesday ordered the long criticized the agency, which he will not run. produce a break of social disbanding of the feared saying it has become a Experts on national secu­order," Fujimori said dur­spy agency that critics say repressive political tool rity have questioned ing a meeting with top min­has long been a tool of with powerful influence Fujimori's action, saying isters and a representative repression in Peru. over the judiciary and elec­the government may mere­from the Organization of 
The government pub­toral system, and much of ly be transferring the spy American States. lished a law saying the the media. agency's electronic surveil­"Personally, I'm going to National Intelligence Fujimori's decision to dis­lance equipment and many leave as I arrived, a Service, which analysts say band the agency was of its employees to army Peruvian in the service of employed at least 5,000 prompted by a leaked intelligence, which is con­the country," Fujimori said. agents and support person­videotape showipg the trolled by generals loyal to "As president, l don't want nel, will be disbanded with­now-exiled spy chief, Montesinos. to leave a nation in chaos in 15 days. Opposition par­Vladimir Montesinos, A weary-sounding and ungovernable. but ties had been pressuring apparently bribing an Fujimori called for national rather with every possibili­the government to disman-opposition congressman to reconciliation Wednesday ty of true democracy." 

page 6 The Observer . PAlD ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 12, 2000 
. fALL BREAK TH IS WEEK!!! nothing is going on her.~LI 
ti-Ip patriot & ti-Ip pxorci/t 

tl-iurfdqy 10:30 fridC1Y <?,:oo u-10:30 fqtutdqy <?,:oo u-10:30 
TP~OW~Pd 1-typ~oti/t O~E' ~iQfit o~ly 
ftidqy Io: oopM f tepC1N ceNter ticktf: i5 G LqfuN iNfo defk 
Cl pprfpct JtorM & rule/ of P~QCIQPMP~t 
tl-iurfdqy 10:30 ftiqqy <?,:oo u-10:30 fqtutdqy <?,:oo u-10:30 


--------------------~------------------------------------------"'"""""'°) 
Thursday, October 12, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Finances 
continued from page l 
Full professors. at Notre Dame currently earn an average of $108,000. plac­ing the University 28th in the country in that category, according to figures from the American Association of University Professors. And there are other expenses 
-------------------------,j Earlier this 
Jl ¦B Notre Dame Center 
¦ U¦ for Ethics and Religious B¦ rM Values in Business 
Proudly Presents 
Honorable Anne Burke 
Judge ofthe Illinois Appellate Court 
AUDI ALTERUM PARTEM 
(Hear the Other Side) 
Tuesday, October 24, 2000 Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 7:00 p.m. 
Made possible by CARGILL 

PiCTlJRE YOURSELF HERE 
TONIGHT 
You never know what will develop when 1200 members of the class of 2001 mix it up. 
AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO, 
222 S. MICHIGAN 
SOUTH BEND 
219.234.5200 
MORE PICTURES @WWW,ACEPLACES.COM/HEARTLAND 
besides salary. 
Malloy said health benefit costs will rise 15 percent next year, and he noted that, for every professor it hires, Notre Dame must pro­vide research funding, library resources and other costs. 
"The single most expen­sive realit.y is the growth of faculty and staff," he said. 
Nevertheless, Notre Dame has its highest operating 
I.I 

CAll THE HEARTLAND CONCERT 
& £VENT LINE 219.251.2568 
budget ever -$535 million -and enjoyed a record­breaking year in endow­ment growth last year. Malloy said. The endow­ment is now $3.5 billion, placing it among the nation's elite, and that has enabled the University to substantially increase finan­cial aid for both undergrad­uate and graduate students. The number of endowed prof'cssorships have also reached an all­
time high. 
week, Notre Dame celebrated the cre­ation of its 150th ()ndowed chair, and, according to Malloy, this growth has been a great \improvement for the University. 
"If you think abour our first [endowed chair] our 10th, 50th, 100th, and if you see who has either been attracted to the University, or promoted, I think you see the con­crete and tangible results in the peo­ple we can attract or promote," he said. 
Malloy gave a short talk to the facult.y and then answered a series of questions sub­mitted in advance before opening the floor for a brief question and answer session. 
Nader 
continued from page l 
Nader also mentioned the need for universal health care in America. 
"Herc's what some Western govern­ments achieved 30 and 40 years ago which we still have not achieved in this country. the richest country in the world," Nader said. "Universal health insurance coverage for all those people. They got it, we don't. With 46 million people and children without health insurance, 10 million more than when Gore and Clinton were elected in 1992, so much for universal health care step by step. Does that mean backwards or for­wards, N Gore? 
"Western Europe and Canada got coverage for their people; we didn't. Why? Because powerful economic forces now represented by the giant llMOs, hospital chains, drug compa­nies said no. They said no to our gov­ernment, and our government wasn't strong enough to tell them to back off. And so these giant corporations are holding America down on one of the most critical rights of any civilized society." 
By examining the minimum wage, Nader called into question the "so­called" prosperity that the U.S. is experiencing. 
"The minimum wage in 1968 when our country was half tho size that it is now in GDP [gross domestic product] per capita was in purchasing power equivalent to $7.30 an hour," he said. "Today, it's $5.15 an hour. The econ­omy has doubled. In any stable and strong democracy, the minimum· wage in purchasing power would be double what it was in 1968, not $2.15 
Enjoy dining out in a big way with juicy Chicago style steaks in hassle-free down­town South Bend. Pull up a chair to a tender filer, an extra thick t-bone, 
or our specialty, 12 oz. of USDA prime New York strip steak. Lighter options, too. 

222 S Michigan, South Bend 219-234-5200 
less. Those are not living wages paid by giant corporations whose stock is skyrocketing and whose profits arc spiraling upwards." 
Nader noted the similarities between Gore and Bush on issues ranging from corporate welfare, for­eign policy, the death penalty, the WTO and helping the small farmer. 
"What is the difference between Al Gore and George W. Bush in the area of enforcement against corporate crime, fraud, abuse?" Nader asked. "[Do] Bush and Gore have anything to say about tougher corporate law enforcement? Do you ever hear them say Tm going to be tough on corpo­rate crime. I'm going to be tough on the crime in the suites'? No way. Those are the companies that are funding their elections." 
Nader criticized the two leading candidates for their stances on international relations. 
"I see no difference essentially between Gore and Bush on foreign policy," he added. "Our country will still support dictators and oligarchs cutting deals with big multi-national corporations and even 10 years after the end of the Soviet Union. When will our country support the workers and the peasants and the downtrodden of the third world for a change?" 
Ralph Nader was born in 1934 in Winsted, Conn. He is a magna cum laude graduate from Princeton University and a graduate of Harvard Law School. Ile gained national prominence in 1963 with his best­selling book, "Unsafe at Any Speed: The Designed-In Dangers of the American Automobile," which exposed the wrongdoing within General l\1otors and caused the entire automobile industry to make safer cars. 
---· -_________ 1 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Thursday, October 12, 2000 

THE OBSERVER 
l'.0 Box Q. No1re D,m<. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Not« Dame, IN 465 56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike C.onnolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
hSST. MANAGING EDl'fOR 0PEIIATJONS MANAGER Christine Kraly Briarr Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Macringly VrnWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EorroR: Kerry Smich ScENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SA.INT MARl"s Eorro11: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters AD D1:stGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WES ADMINl~TRATOR: Adam Turner CON"fROLLElh Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
GONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNfO............631-7471 
Ru..........................................................631-6927 . WVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu E'.OITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EonoR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 Nr.ws..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.......... ......................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SrORTS ............... ........................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCF.NE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'s...... ...................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO................. .....................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB Avlll!NISTRATORS..... ...........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobsavtr. nd.edu for daily updares of=pus news, sports, fcarures and opinion columns. as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from 1he A.ssocia1ed Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-rhe 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly smdent reviews 
advertise for policies. 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus covuage 
archivCJ to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
scaff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is 1hc independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the: s1Udents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary•• College. Editorial conl<ent. including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither inscicu1ion. The Obs<:rver reserves the right to refu;e adverrisemcnrs based on oonrem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maiority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Edi tor, Assistant Managing Editor and dcpamnem edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the au i:hors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint sp.ct is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lem:rs is encouraged. uccers 10 the Editor must be signed and musr include coniact information. 
Que,tions r,gardmg Oburvn policiei ,hould be direCl­,d 10 Editor in ChiefMilt, Conno/Jy. 

Stressing awareness for women 
During my two decades in law enforce­ment and security work, I have conduct­ed many classes on self-defense for women. Despite my sculpted body (hid­den underneath a more modest exterior) and my lightning reflexes (somewhat lessened by the rav­ages of time), most of these classes have featured the mental aspect of self defense. I leave the rough stuff to people like Officer Sue Tullos and her excellent team of Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) Instructors. (You can reach Sue at 1­
5555.) 

Here are my self­defense tips for women in the Notre Dame community: 
1. 
Don't drink when you are underage. There is no good reason to break this law. There is a reason the drinking age is 21. 

2. 
If you are old enough to drink, do so in moderation. Here are a couple of tests: Can you go to a bar or party and have only a soft drink, or nurse one drink? If you can't, you're not strong enough to resist peer pressure. For help, contact either the Alcohol and Drug Education program (1-7970) or the University Counseling Center (1-7336). 

3. 
If you are exploring the single's scene. go with a friend and leave with her. If you meet a really cool guy, he shouldn't mind swapping phone num­bers and making a date for another day. If he does mind, tell him to take a hike. This is a good test of his staying power. Here's another good test for potential boyfriends. See what he says when you say you prefer not to drink. If he pres­sures you ("Everybody drinks," "You'll have more fun," "It'll loosen you up," etc.), tell him you're sorry, but you've got to go study for orgo (I don't know what this is, but some of my student workers talk about it). Ifl told you that the guy you just met had poured a "date rape drug" into your Dr. Pepper, you would not drink it. but the same effect may occur when you pick up yet another beer. (They should put labels on beer cans -warning, drinking beer makes you stupid.) 

4. 
Don't ever get into a car with a dri­ver who has been drinking (unless you were born on Krypton). Ifyou don't believe me, give Rex Rakow a call (1­8338). He's the director of NDSP, but he's also conducted a number of vehicu­lar death investigations which have resulted from alcohol. Also, whenever you get in a car, make sure everyone is wearing a seatbelt {unless you have a death wish or own stock in a company which makes wheelchairs). 

5. 
Remember the country song which asked. "Why do the girls all get better lookin· at closing time." The reverse is also true. When you are not drinking, you have high standards in choosing 




your companions. Don't forfeit your rep­utation when you imbibe. 
6. 
Don't scoff at parietals -they are one of Notre Dame's many rules designed to help members of the com­munity. You too will be writing in defense of them, when your daughter enrolls here in the 2020s. While I realize that it is not chic these days to be writing about preserving virtue, remember a couple things. When you sleep with a man, you are sleeping with all of his sex partners. You are making a statement about your own worth every time you share intimacy with someone. 

7. 
"No" is a complete sentence. Read Gavin de Becker's book, "The Gift of Fear." Never let a boy or man force you to do something you choose not to. Yell like a banshee. We have an armed police department on campus. with lots of shiny handcuffs and four of the most capa­ble investigators in the county. We would be happy to beef up our arrest stats. Even if you're afraid that some ofyour own behaviors may have con­tributed to put you at risk, it is advisable to call immedi­ately for help when things don't work out the way you wished. Most sober people know this. 

8. 
Don't forget that we have a terrific SafeWalk Program. Call 1-5555 if you would like someone to walk with you on campus after dark. 


Thirty years ago, when I was involved in juvenile delinquency work, l served on the "Drug Abuse Task Force" for St. Joseph County. When I was asked to name the most serious drug, l answered "alcohol." In those days, it was not yet a big problem with kids aged 12-16 (my target group). but it was 
· a huge influence in the home life of those adults who posed as family for these kids (a teacher friend of mine describes these kids as being "raised by wolves"). Nothing l have seen in the past 30 years has changed my mind about the biggest social problem facing our society. 
I have done a lot of observational research (in taverns, pubs, the street5 of Los Angeles and in the Stadium's visiting team sections when a certain East Coast parochial school is in town) and come up with the definitive typology of what hap­pens when males drink. They become one of five people: Morpheus (named after the Greek god of dreams). This is sometimes the easiest drunk to deal with. He falls asleep by half-time and needs only to be carried back to his room after the game. He is only annoying when he is more than 300 pounds and incontinent ... or when his '64 Chevrolet rear-ends you on the 1967 Fourth of July weekend (but that's another story). Note: sometimes this guy is not asleep, he's pass·ed out and heading into a coma. Ifyou can't rouse this person, he's likely suffering from alcohol poisoning. Call 911 immediately. 
Or they become Johnny Carson (named after the funny comic, who was once arrested for drunk driving by one of my 
L.A. police pals). This guy is incredibly funny when he drinks. At least he and all his pals are laughing uproariously. Sometimes, though, you will see some people not laughing. Thosn are the ones not drinking. It reminds me of the '60s­era canard that people on LSD were capable of producing grnat art and music. You heard this a lot until someone actually gave an easel to an artist who was dropping acid. It was ugly. 
Or they become Casanova (named after the 18th century Italian "adventurer"). This guy becomes amorous. Unfortunately, one guy's amorousness may be a woman's sexual battery com­plaint. 
Also, they may bccome Marciano (named after the only undefeated heavyweight champion in history). This guy becomes belligerent. Ile can be divided into two sub­groups: The Chuck Wepner­
type. named after the Bayonne Bleeder and identi­fied by the facial stitching. 
Or they become the Mike Tyson-type who also thinks he's Casanova. This is the 
guy domestic violence vic­tims describe as "real nice when he's not drinking." One victim told me. "When he puts his arms around me, l just melt," but she 
had to tell me this while standing, because the most recent time he had put his 
arms around her, it was to throw her down the base­ment steps. Her broken hip had not yet healed. When this guy goes to college, he becomes part of the shadow 

statistics of acquaintance assault. He's the boy written up in some Observer articles during the past year. He would never grab a stranger on a deserted path and pull her into the bushes and assault her. No way. He believes "rape is wrong", but when he's pounded down a bunch of brewski's with the blonde first­
. year student who's slouched on the next bar stool, he is all too quick to respond to the opportunities of the moment. 
I'm not familiar with all the ways women are affected when they drink, but a lot of young women acquire one harm­ful trait. They become forgetful. They forget all the things their parents taught. them. Beer not only makes you stupid, it also makes you forget things. Rape is wrong; acquaintance rape is pre­ventable. 
Cappy Gagnon. '66, has seen too many Notre Dame students embarrass them­selves in the stadium because they were drinking beer instead ofhot chocolate. His two daughters heeded his advice and grew up and married without ever being crime statistics. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
DO YOU 
WANTA 
STOCK 
TIP? 
\ 

SCOTT ADAMS 
ARE YOU ASKING ME TO BELIEVE THAT'S YOU'RE A LOSER. AT NOT IT'S
WHATEVERY ASPECT OF 

IMPLIED.
I'MLIFE EXCEPT 
ASKING.

PICKING \ 
STOCK? ) 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I don't know, I don't care and it doesn't make any difference." 
Jack Kerouac writer 


IEWPOINT 
O
THE Thursday, October 12, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
POLITICAL FACE-OFF 
Putting the health of America first 
Prioritizing the needy 
American health care is the best in the world. The only problem is getting it. People with enough money or a generous employer are provided with access lo some of the most advanced medical technology ori earth. Unfortunately. more than a sixth of all 
Jeffrey Americans have no Stuffings health care coverage at all Roughly 44 million 
College

people are without 
Democrats

insurance. 
The lack of affordable health insurance in America hits children and minorities the hardest. Eleven million children and more than a third of llispanics have no health insurance. Ordinary families suffer as well. Medical bills from a common illness can bankrupt a middle-class family without cover­age. 
Vice President Gore has proposed extending tax credits to employers who provide health insurance to their employees. He has also proposed expanding the State-Children's Insurance Program in order to provide uni­versal health coverage for children. George 
W. Bush, who governs a state with one of the worst public health records in the nation, wishes to rely upon health care companies to oITer private plans. The bottom line is that poor and middle income families will continue to have little hope of becoming insured. 
The Vice President's plan will actually drive down health care costs. People without cover­age are forced to seek emergency treatment at the last minute. Emergency care is incredi­bly expensive. Providing preventive care and early treatment under a health plan is much more sensible. 
The ever-increasing number of uninsured Americans is not the only health care prob­lem facing the U.S. today. Currently. the price of prescription drugs is spiraling out of con­trol. In 1999, the prescription drug bill for Americans was $112 billion, and the overall cost of prescription drugs is growing at a rate oflO percent a year. The group of Americans hurt most by the prescription drug hike over the past ten years is elderly. 
Most elderly have some form of private insurance that pays for their prescription drugs. However, as drug costs have risen. pri­vate insurers have been more and more unwilling to pick up the tab. Worse yet are the third of elderly Americans that have no prescription drug coverage at all. With drug costs totaling several hundred dollars a month. many elderly have seen their dispos­able incomes plummet. They must frequently choose between fiUing their prescriptions or buying food to eat. Often. prescriptions go unfilled and the health of elderly Americans suffers. 
Vice President Gore has proposed using our nation's economic prosperity to help elderly Americans meet th~ rising cost of drugs. He has proposed spending $253 billion of the fed­eral budget surplus over the next ten years on a comprehensive prescription drug benefit program for Medicare recipients. The pre­scription drug benefit would be administered through the existing Medicare system, which would continue to provide traditional cover­age as well. 
Governor Bush. on the other hand. has pro­posed that prescription drug benefits be administered directly through private insur­ers. What the Bush plan does is leave the elderly at the mercy of the private insurance markl'L The Bush campaign has tried to sug­gest that bureaucra1s or "rats" will decide who receivfls drug benefits under the Gore plan. 
Under the Bush plan benefits will be administered by exec­utives worried about their share prices on Wall Street. There is definitely a degree of uncertainty in Governor Bush's plan. Not only will prescription drug benefits be less gen­erous under a Bush administration, but seniors cannot take comfort in knowing they will receive help paying their skyrocketing drug costs. 
There is simply a difference in priori­ties between Vice President Gore and Governor Bush. The Vice President JIVLkes a priority of using our nation's prosperity to solve some of the most pressing social problems in America. He wants to use the surplus to promote universal health care and improve the health of our nation's seniors. Governor Bush makes a pri­ority of letting market forces solve our nation's problems. He doesn't seem to believe that the government should provide help to those who are unable to help themselves. The prosperity over the last eight years has given the U.S. the special opportunity to improve the lives of the most needy Americans. We must not let this opportunity slip away. 
Jeffrey Stuffings is the president ofthe · College Democrats Club. Political Face-Off will run every Thursday until the election. 
The views expressed in column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Bush proposes a plan that works 
The lies and sighs of the Gore campaign have carried over to the issue of health care. Once again, Gore has decided to lie about the details of Governor Bush's plans instead of debating the 
Greg Kelly
substantive dif­ferences between the 
College
plans. This 
Republicans
article will not throw out mag­ical, very convenient numbers. tar­geted at tricking the uneducated. but instead it will relay the facts of Governor ~ Bush's plan and let you decide whether or o:-. not to sup-
jport it. 
· Governor Bush real­,~ izes that 
~ biparti­san pro­posals have made 
great strides towards 
solving our national health care crisis. The basis of this proposal is essentially giving every Am.erican citi­zen the same health coverage that govern­ment workers get. which 
includes choice from a wide range of comprehensive plans that will meet all health care needs. 
The first key in this is not penaliz­ing people who are currently happy with their health care. Anyone who does not want to change his or her current coverage will not be forced to. At the same time. flexibility will be introduced to allow people to change their coverage at the end of the year if they are not happy with the services. 
Governor Bush does not believe that impoverished seniors should have to pay anything for their cov­erage. Any seniors at 35 percent of the poverty level or less will have their health coverage and prescrip~ tion plan fully covered by the gov­ernment. Seniors between 35 per­cent and 75 percent of the poverty level will have partial help in their prescription drug plan. All seniors will have a minimum of 25 percent of the prescription drug premium paid for by the government and the government will cover any cata­strophic expense (over $6,000) for all seniors. 
Governor Bush does not believe people should have to wait for the government to raise funds to reap the benefits of this legislation. The Governor's "Helping-Hand" legisla­tion would give $48 billion of direct support to states for four years to make these programs go into effect immediately. By the time these funds are exhausted. the funding that the legislation will have raised will be sufficient to start sustaining the benefits. 
Vice President Gore's plan does not give extra benefits to impover­ished seniors. He also does not want to reform the system in the same detail that Governor Bush does. Instead, he wants to make the exist­ing system cheaper. This does not address the problem of the inade­quate care that currently plagues the country. Once again, Al Gore has decided to say what sounds best instead of suggest true reform. Mr. Gore has a plan to get elected. not to improve healthcare. 
Governor George W. Bush has a plan to work with a Republican or Democratic congress to make healthcare reform a reality. He realizes that issues of the welfare of American citizens should be above the petty bickering of partisan lines and should not be exploited as a political tool. Electing George W. Bush will ensure not only health­care reform, but also restoring the motel at 1600 to the mansion at 1600. 
Greg Kelly is a member ofthe College Republicans Club. Political Face-Off will run every Thursday until the election. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Smeared words speak volumes 
How does it feel to be rubbed out,  gays enough to believe that gay  takes a lot of courage to stand up  
completely destroyed,  voices should be silenced. Maybe  to a world filled with fear. hatred  
obliterated, extinguished, figura­ they think that gay people tl1em­ and intolerance.  
tively, literally and with malice'?  selves should be destroyed ­ as if  In this case, the message is clear:  
Walking around Saint Mary's  by wiping away the words, they  smeared words speak volumes.  
campus today, I notice that there  can eradicate an entire group of  Please, listen to what they are say­ 
arc chalk messages on the side­ people.  ing.  
walks. These phrases and symbols  How much loathing does it take to  
are in recognition of National  snuff out a person's soul? To the  Elizabeth Karle  
Coming Out Day. Many of the say­ individuals who remind us to cele­ Notre Dame Class of'85  
ings, however. have been rubbed  brate diversity today and every  Ocr. 11. 2000  
out. Apparently someone hates  day: do not be disheartened. It  

Correction: 
The CSC column, "For a More Just and Humane World," that appeared Tuesday, Oct. 11 was written by Rene Mulligan and Kathleen Maas Weigert, the associate director for academic affairs and research at the Center for Social Concerns. Also, the CLC article that appeared on Sept. 
26 incorrectly stated that Bill Kirk was the vice president of Student Affairs. He is the assistant vice president of Student Affairs. The Viewpoint staff regrets these errors. 
l . 


page lO Thursday, October 12, 2000 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Stiller and DeNiro can't save their comedy 

MOVIE REVIEW 
l)espite a poor script and weak characters, 
By \1ATT NANIA 
Assiscant Scene Ediror 
It the rain-slicked new Sylvester Sta:lone revenge flick "Get Carter" seems a little familiar, it's with good reason. 
It could be that the picture is a remake or a gritty 1971 film of the same name (st11 rring Michael Caine, who appears in thii; vcrsio-n as well). It 
could be that thf1 bad­"Get Carter" energy level with his guy-goi ng-al'te r-wo rse­
kinetic, staccato cuts, 
guys plot -about a Las 
loops and splices. i\nd Vegas mob enforcer 

Tyler Bates techno-rock determined to !ind and 
score lends each scene snuff the people who 
some verve. whacked his estranged out offive shamrocks 
Kay is smart enough to 
brother -isn't all that know he doesn't have a 
cliflcrnnt from the story lot to work with here, so 
or a hard-as-nails Director: Stephen Kay 
he doesn't waste time parolen avenging his Starring: Sylvester Stallone, with expository backsto­d ry, extraneous childhood
•.,~ugh.tt•r in,, last year's
l·t J Rachel Leigh Cook, Alan
:.c .1mcy. 

flashbacks, or an expla­Then again, in exccu-Cumming, Mickey Rourke, nation of the Carter boys' 
tion and style, "Get Miranda Richardson and Michael falling out. Those things
Ca1·ter" is an awful lot liko Mol Gibson's 1999 Caine glamorous guns-a-blazin' vintiir.ation venture ''Payback," which was itself' a remake or 19G7's "Point Blank." Or it could just be that Sylvester Stallone is Sylvester Stallone in almost every movie 
he -nakes. 
Even tlrnugh watching Stnllonc rough guys up in "Get Carter" foels like a n•treacl of a rntread. director Stephen Kay ("The 1.ast Time I Committed Suicide") turns the experience into a stimulating visual showcase or stylish li!mrnaking that kurps tlrn viewnr's attention. 
laking photography and 11diting cues l'n1111 David Fincher ("Fight Club"), Steven Soccrbcrgh ("The Limcy," "Out of Sight") and Michael Bay ("i\rmagcddon"J, he turns the action and lights into an array of images that pack a punch. It's not the story, but the look of the picture that keeps it interesting. 
Kay owes a debt of gratitude to cine­matographer Mauro f<iorc for his wet, color-saturated rendering that makes everything look dank and dangerous. Editor Jerry Greenberg deserves part of the credit too, for main­taining the picture's 
aren't relevant and he 
knows it. Jack's brother 
is already dead when the film opens. Kay jumps straight into the 
action. lie even manages to keep the 
catch phrases in check. · Stallone is solid {if stoic) as Carter, even 
ifit is another l1awnd, permanently scowl­ing tough guy role he could do in his sleep. But in an odd stroke of' prestige casting, Miranda Hichardson ("Sleepy llollow") and /\Ian Cumming (Broadway's "Carousel") arc wasted in stage-prop parts. Hichardson is the brother's widow and Cumming is a twerpy sollware mil­lionaire who blunders into a crooked business relationship with the movie's maximum-bad malefactors -underage pornographers who doped and exploited 
Carter's niece (Hachel Leigh Cook, "She's 
All That"). They're lead by Mickey 
Rourke ("Angel Heart"). who matches 
Stallone stone-cold stare for stone-cold 
stare. Overall, the cast does a good job. 
And, although Carter's appetite for vengeance and his efforts to achieve per­sonal redemption are only moderately believable, the film does exhibit a handful of suspenseful moments. 
Thanks to its stylishness and dynamism, "Get Carter" also manages to grab the audience for most of its running time (a killer "French Connection"-style car chase ups the ante_by taking place on Seattle's slippery-when-wet avenues.) 
One could easily accuse Kay of using directorial nash to service a weak story, and that's probably true, but if the flash helps evoke the mood and energy of the characters. what's wrong with a little overkill'! These characters are violent and over-the-top. ll only makes sense that the look of the film follows in suit. 
The poorly-scripted story takes its toll on the viewer, though, by film's end. There aro long scenes that plod on forev­er and short scenes that stand as point­less. 
Also, instead or bringing Carter's revenge to a crescendo, the climactic showdowns <lel1atc all the tension from the film. Ile goes on the rampage, people get kill1•d, and the audience stops caring. 
If one thinks about it, "Got Carter" lias all the ingredients of a dumb Hollywood movie: a washed-up action star, a weak storyline and a crop of stereotypical action characters. 
Yet, thanks to some 11ashy directing, quality performances and a l'air sharn of quality action scenes, the !ilm succeeds in at least maintaining our attention. In that sense, "Get Carter" isn't half as bad a.s it could have been. 
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
Scene Movie Critic 
Thero was so much promise for "Meet the Parents," a comedy directed by Jay Hoach ("Austin Powers" 1 & 2) and starring Hubert IJeNiro as a watchful parent and Ben StHler as a timid boyfriend. The promise never pays off. The movie feels much longer than its 108-minute running time. 
The premise is simple. Stiller plays Greg Fucker, a guy who wishes lo get mar­ried to his longtime girffriend, Pam Byrnes (Teri Polo, a TV character actress). !loping to make the right moves, Greg suggests a weekend with Pam's parents. At the end of the weekend, Greg plans to propose, having securnd the parent's approval. 
This is a comedy, however. and everything goes wrong for Focker. lie accidentally destroys almost everything in and around the house. Suffice to say, the meeting with the parents is a disaster. However, as things in movies always tend to do, every mis­
understanding works itself out and the happy couple is united for a limitless future. 
The main problem with this movie is that it peaks too early. When Stiller destroys a precious urn containing the ashes or DcNiro's beloved mother, the audiencn roars with laughter and gasps. Everyone feels compassion and humor for the situation Greg is in: he has just per­formed the grnatnst injustice to tlrn Byrnes family (and unintentionally at that). 
Ilowever, the accidents become increasingly ridicu­lous as the movi11 progresses. Destroying an urn is one thing, but is Greg so unlucky that, in the same weekend, he would destroy a front lawn with a single f'lush of' thn toi­let? llis bad luck culminatns in a situation with a cat, a cigarette, leaves, a gutter, an electrical wire and a hand­crafted wedding altar. This is not bad luck on Greg's part: this house is a liability wait­ing to be burned to the ground. 
Greg is the starting domino in a series of chance events. llis bad luck becomes absurd 

In the crime-drama "Get Carter," Jack Carter revenge on his brother's killers. Director Steph the film's stereotypical plot line. 

M 

Thursday, October 12, 2000 
om going too far 
and the humor becomes less funny and more annoying. Because of this, other things leave themselves open for scruti­ny. 
The De Niro-Stiller relation­
ship is script­ed haphaz­ardly. There is a sense through the whole moviP­that De Niro will warm to Stiller's char­a ctc r by movie's end, even whPn he is cursing the w o u l d -b e son-in-law 
for his mistakes. Teri Polo is miscast, and her role in the film is lel't undone. She becomes a sounding board of ov-erused phrases ('Tm sorry Daddy" and "It'll be okay, Greg"). A Teddy Buxpin toy could have repeated the three phrases she needed to learn to be a part or this movie. 
"Meet the Parents" has its funny moments, though. It aborts its plot late into it-to make an unbelievably funny commentary on airline protocol. The movie also makes good use 
of Greg's last name (Focker is pronounced just as it looks). 
Owen Wilson ("Shanghai Noon"} is tremendously funny as Pam's ex-boyfriend, and had his role been bigger, he might have 
"Meet the Parents" 

out offive shamrocks 
Director: Jay Roach Starring: Ben Stiller, Robert DeNiro, Blythe Danner, Teri Polo and Owen Wilson 
been able to 
:;;~~:i~~s of Overall, however, the movie drags because it resorts to unbelievable situations that increasingly insult the m oviegocr · s basic intelli­gencc. 
Meeting a loved one's parents is traumatic and scary, but it does not culminate in a nicotine induced cat destroying a wed­ding dress. "Meet the Parents" overreaches and, consequently, it suffers. 
Those looking for a spectacu­lar movie about first meetings with parents (but not a comedy) should undoubtedly check out Stanley Kramer's 1967 classic, "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" to substitute for their viewing of "Meet The Parents." 

ter' still engages 
Photo courtesy of Wamer Bros. Pictures 

(Sylvester Stallone) is a hard-boiled mob enforcer determined to enact Kay's high-energy visuals and sequences are just enough to outweigh 
E 
page 11 

VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

Photo courtesy of MGM Studios Woody Allen's classic film "Manhattan," starring Allen, Diane Keaton and Meryl Streep, is available to rent on video. 
Allen comments on life and love in 'Manhattan' 
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
Scene Movie Critic 

Woody Allen is often associated with his short, witty comedies. It was a romantic com­edy, "Annie Hall" that won him a Best Picture Oscar in 1977. "Manhattan" was his follow up, and a lot was expected of it. It is a bril­liant film, and the late 1970s mark the most fruitful period of Allen's writing and direct­ing. 
"Manhattan" plays out on two levels. The first is Allen's perpetual love song to Manhattan. Backed by amazing George Gershwiri selections, the film is 
an ode to a town that Frank 

"Manhattan" dialogue because he is frustrat-
Sinatra once pointed out "never ed with the way that sex is used sleeps." as a tool. The intimacy and Over the familiar opening importance of a partner is no
Director: Woolly Allen
chords of "Rhapsody in Blue," longer valid; relationships have
Starring: Woody Allen,
the movie opens. When the taken on a "revolving-door" movie ends, "Rhapsody" swells Diane Keaton, Meryl nature. for one last climax that cap-Isaac leaves Tracy for Mary
tures the city as a visual and as Streep, Michael Murphy 
because he thinks he is doing a sound. The viewer might and Mariel Hemingway the right thing. After all, Tracy 
"puppy love" that is common of a teenager. Isaac tries to keep the relationship casual, but Tracy is falling in love with him. Clueless of the needs of a teenager, he responds the only way he knows how: he admonishes her for everything. He is also careful in his lan­guage: she is not "beautiful," but "adorable." Tracy is constantly reminded that she "can't be in love. [She's] just a kid". 
Allen also comments on the way the era {the 1970s) is addressing sex. For example, a group discussion at a dinner party quickly turns to the subject of orgasms. At one point, Mary quips to Yale, "It's always sex with you. There's never any time for holding/' Clearly, 
Allen has written that piece of 
have been treated to scenes capturing the rising and setting of the sun, but the city is in perpetual motion, much like the song that has been associated with the beginning and end of the film. 
In between, the audience is treated to other, less familiar Gershwin selections that set appropriate moods and coordinate with an abundance of visuals of the beloved Manhattan. There are no scenes outside Manhattan. As a character explains early, liv­ing outside this town is "just not practical." 
The second level the movie presents is Allen's commentary on life, focusing on the casual nature of relationships and sex within the city. Allen plays Isaac Davis, a 42-year­old TV writer. At the film's opening, he is "dating" 17-year-old Tracy (Mariel Hemingway, who was 17 in real life). His friend, Yale (Michael Murphy), is unhappily married to Emily (Anne Byrne), and looks to a pseudo-intellectual Mary {Diane Keaton). for a fling. 
The movie is about how each of these peo­ple hop from relationship to relationship to satisfy an understanding of their own life's purpose. Yale looks to justify his infidelity, but Isaac will not consent. Although the two are friends, they are miles apart on what they should be getting out of their relationships. 
For Yale, he enjoys the sex and danger of being Gaught when he is ~vith Mary. For Isaac, it is about recovering from a messy marriage -his inadequacies arc soon going to be part of a "tell-all" book written by his 
-now lesbian ex-wife (played by Meryl Strecp). Isaac dates Tracy because it is his security blanket; Tracy adorns him with a form of 
can't be hung up on Issac. He points out that he can "beat up her father." Mary is an emotional mess. Played as a sex object in her relationship with Yale, she is a polar opposite to Isaac. Nevertheless, they click for a while. Gershwin hums in the back as a classic shot of Isaac and Mary, on a bench overlooking the Brooklyn Bridge, is put up on screen. 
Mary leaves Isaac when she admits she still loves Yale. Disturbed by the morals he sees amongst his friends, Isaac takes off to find Tracy, whom he finally realizes has been part of his most satisfying relationship. 
A fast, striking Gershwin piece plays as Isaac races to find Tracy before she leaves for London, The final scene is classic Allen: well scripted and a strong ending to the film. 
While it would be discourteous to reveal the outcome of the story, it is relevant to point out that, regardless or how it turns out, Isaac has learned that Tracy is much more mature than he had given her credit for. Whereas his attitude towards her at the beginning or the film might have been that he had nothing to learn from her, the truth lies in the fact that even a old man can fall in love with a charm­ing teenager. 
"Manhattan" is a delightful love story set to a fantastic Gershwin score. In a carefully mastered script, the characters exchange quips about morality, sex, relationships and true love. 'Allen's classic one-liners are thrown into the mix and the story is satisfying and humorous. 
While "Annie Hall" may have captured the awards, it is "Manhattan" that oftentimes steals the show. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 12, 2000 
NHL 

Blues rally to tie Kings, Messier leads Rangers to win 
Angeles' four games this sea­Rangers 3, Canadiens 1 2:58 of the third by blasting a intercepted McCabe's pass. Associated Pr<m 
son, joined the Kings' Marcel Mark Messier returned home long shot past Kirk McLean. faked a shot, and snapped it Dionne, who had 1,307 career and nearly brought the house McLean, playing in place of past Healy. points for Los Angeles, and down. injured goalie Mike Richter -Less than a minute later, 
LOS ANGELES Dave Taylor, who had 1,069. Messier, in his first home recovering from offseason Mariusz Czerkawski beat 
Scott Young led a furious Ziggy Pal(fy added a goal game with the New York knee surgery -made 28 llealy with a slap shot from third-period rally with two and an assist for Los Angeles. Rangers in over three years. saves. the top of the left faccof'f circle goals and an assist to lift the scored a power-play goal early Dvorak restored the two­to give the Islanders a 2-1 St. Louis Blues into a 4-4 tic in the third period in a victory goal lead with nine minutes lead.
Flyers 3, Wild 3

with the Los Angeles Kings on over the Montreal . remaining, taking a beautiful Sergei Berezin tied it after
Eric Desjardins scored mid­

Wednesday night. Radek Dvorak scored twice pass across the crease from taking a pass from Valk and
way through the third period

The Blues spotted the Kings for the Rangers. who won Petr Nedved and directing the shooting the puck past
to lift the Philadelphia Flyers 

a 4-0 second-period lead their home opener for the first puck past Hackett -who Vanbiesbrouck at 3:44 of the
to a tie with Minnesota in the

before storming back with time since 1995 and improved played well in stopping 29 third.
expansion Wild's first regular­

four goals in the third. to 2-0 for the first time in a shots,
season home.

Jochen llccht tied it at 4 decade.
The Wild took a 3-2 lead on Capitals 3, Thrashers 3
when he scored with 33.6 sec­Messier's goal came just 24
Wes Walz's short-handed goal Maple Leafs 3, Islanders 2 Jeff Halpern scored off a
onds remaining in regulation. seconds into the final period
at 9:12 of the third period. but Mats Sundin scored a power­rebound with .2:23 remaining
after the Blues pulled their as he carried the puck to the
Desjardins tied it at 10:37 in play goal late in the third peri­in the third period and the
goaltender for an extra attack­right of Canadiens goalie Jeff
the first NIIL game involving a od, and Glenn llealy stopped a Washington Capitals tied 
er. Hackett. Messier tried to pass
Minnesota team since the penalty shot with just 34 sec­Atlanta, preventing the
Pierre Turgeon flipped the out in front, but the puck hit
North Stars played their last onds remaining as the Toronto Thrashers from reaching .500
puck across the crease to Montreal defenseman Eric 
.... game at the Met Center in Maple Leafs held on to beat for the lirst time in franchise
Hecht. who poked it in past Weinrich and ricocheted into
Bloomington on April 13. the New York Islanders. history.
the Kings' Jamie Storr for his the net to make it 2-0.
1993. After New York's Homan Hay Ferraro put the
second goal of the season. Messier, who had an assist
Minnesota's Manny Hamrlik was p1rnalized for Thrashers (0-1-1) ahead with
Young scored both of his in New York's 2-1 opening­
Fernandez made 36 saves and cross-checking, Toronto 5:58 remaining, but the 2­
goals 2:13 apart after Pavol night victory over Atlanta, left
was kept busy, laying out to scored when Petr Svoboda year-old franchise couldn't
Demitra finally put St. Louis the Rangers for the Vancouver
smother pucks and stop shots centered a pass to Sundin. make the lead stand up.
on the board 1:l 5 into the Canucks after the 1997 sea­
as Philadelphia exploited who shot it past goalie John With the Capitals swarming
third period. son. He returned this summer
Minnesota's weak and inexpe­Vanbiesbrouck with 5:45 the net, Atlanta goalie Damian
Young beat Storr 3:29 into as a free agent, signing a two­
rienced defense. remaining. Hhodes stopped a shot by Ulf
the period to make it 4-2, then year deal. Messier was hon­
The Wild, who had scored Healy, playing his first game Dahlen. But Halpern pounced
added his sixth goal shortly ored as part of a 30-minute
just once in each of their pre­of the season, was given a on the rebound and buried a
afterward as St. Louis cut the pregame ceremony celebrating
vious two games, were incon­deliberate delay of game high shot from the right side.
deficit to one goal. the Rangers' 75th season and
sistent in the offensive zone. penalty after he knocked the Donald Audette scored a
Young also assisted on the their captains.
They -peppered Flyers goalie net from its borings. Brad pair of power-play goals in the
tying goal. The Captain, who reclaimed
Brian Boucher in the opening Isbister took the penalty shot, l'irst period and assisted on
Mathieu Schneider and his title from Brian Leetch ­
minutes of the game, but had but Healy blocked the winger's Ferraro's goal. which also
Bryan Smolinski each had a who uncomfortably held it in
just three shots in the second back hand with his right pad. came with a man advantage
.~oal and two assists for the his absence -received a four­
period. Healy stopped 18 shots for for the Thrashers.
Kings, who have not beaten minute standing ovation from
Marian Gaborik, the Wild's Toronto, which went 1-for-8 Washington's Joe Murphy
the Blues in Los Angeles since his beloved fans as he was the
first-round draft pick this on the power play. was sitting out a cross-check­
Jan. 11, 1997. and have won last New York player intro­
year, had a power-play goal to Vanbiesbrouck made 30 saves ing penalty when Tomi Kallio
just one of their last 11 meet­duced to the crowd.
kickstart Minnesota's offense for Ne.w York. shot from a bad angle and the
ings. Dvorak gave the Rangers a
with 55 seconds lert in the sec­Garry Valk, who had a goal puck slipped between Capitals
Luc Hobitaille had a goal and 1-0 lead on the power play
ond. and an assist, gave Toronto a goalie Craig Billington and
.1n assist to become the third with a wrist shot over
The 18-year-old Gaborik 1-0 lead at 12:22 of the first defenseman Ken Klee.
player to score 1,000 career Hackett's stick at 1:13 of the
shot the puck into Boucher's after tipping in Bryan Ferraro, lurking on the
])oints for the Kings. second period.
arm and the puck trickled out McCabe's shot from the point. opposite side, slammed the
Hobitaille, who has five goals Defenseman Craig Hivet got
of his hand, which was resting Oleg Kvasha tied it 1-1 at loose puck into the net for his
and four assists in Los Montreal within a goal, 2-1, at
in the goal. 12:40 of the second after he first goal of the season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at 1he Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for coment without issuing refunds. 
~CLASSIFIEDS 

ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  Need childcare in our Granger  #1 Spring Break 2001 Cancun,  Fresh off a destroyer with a dance- 
I.OST & FOUND  AM. ­232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 2 ND/USC Tix + Airfare  WANTED  home, Tues. and Thurs. Must have transportation. Call 271-1935.  Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, Florida &S Padre. Reliable TWA flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or  belt and a tube of chapstick. This is my life we're talking about  
GOTO alumni.nd edu/-ndc_satc  NANNY WANTED:  FREE trips-call tor details!  here. We're not just talking about  
L,,st and Found  Tutoring needed in  25-35 hrs/week. Contact Krista @  1.800.SURFS.UP  something else here, we're talking  
LOST• Canon zoom camera on  FOR SALE, FOOTBALL TICKETS,  Win2000  425-793-1208 for more into or email  www.studentexpress.com  about my life.  
9129. Drop off in 220 Main Bldg. Or  ALL GAMES· 272-7233  Network-MCSE.  KROBKE@CERWER.COM  
call 513-703-2990 No questions  Spring Break 2001 Book group of  Heeeeeeeeeey Chomp chomp.  
ai;ked.  I NEED 4 BC TIX TOGETHER.  Please call 277-4443.  Age 55 or over? Earn $1 O!  15 and GO FREE! Book before  Those horseshoes look fine.  
CAN PAY ONLY $200.  Researchers in the Department of  Nov. 3 for FREE Meals! Visit us at  
FOUND  CALL 243-1621.  UCONNECTIONS.COM  Psychology are conducting a study  sunsplashtours.com or call for free  To the Bond Girls of 230 McGlinn,  
Tl~EK BIKE in parking lot one week  ot posture control, and need  info @ 1 -800-426-7710  tiere's the long-awaited classified  
-.  a110 C.o\LL MATT 4-4894.  Selling 6 tickets for ND v. Navy Call Jen at 277-8620  Hiring part-time positions, no expe­rience required. Contact  healthy men and women age 55 or over to participate. This study  ATTN: FACULTY &STAFF  Brooke, Julia, and Jen, "Who let the  
zallen@nd edu for info  takes about one hour. For more  Great house for sale by owner, 1  dogs out? Hoot, hoot, hoot,  
LOST on campus at Stanford game  NEED AF TICKETS, call with price  information or lo schedule an  mile north of campus in OFernwood  hoot,hootl"  
1 1/2 inch thick gold bracelet  634-3068, ask for Dylan.  EARN MONEY OVER FALL  appointment, please call Eric Covey  at Cleveland.Cl  
Al:WAAD call Carol at 312-946­ BREAK  at 631-4732 or Or. Steven Boker at  Days 243-6040 ext. 231.  Mrrrl Thanks for the jolly.  
HI00.  ND/AIR FORCE 4 TICS  The Early Childhood Development  631-4941.  Will e-mail amenities.  
ALUMNI END ZONE  Center al Notre Dame has employ­ dhickey@carletoninc.com  Allison Doherty, yes. Connolly for- 
LOST-MY MARBLES PLEASE  BEST OFFER  ment opportunities for Fall Break  got your personal, here goes:  
CALL 4-9999  415.677.1310  (October 16-20) tor individuals who  NOTICES  Videotape your next on or off earn- Buon Compleanno Allison! 21 !Wish  
enJoy young children. If you are  pus party! www.icecoldvideo corn  I could go to Rock Castle with you  
NEED 3 BC TIX, 1 NAVY TICKET  interested in spending time reading  to see Semel  
TICKETS  CALL ERNESTO 274-0829  children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with chil- COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 300,000 + private sector scholar­ '88 Ford Taurus. 6-cyl .. stereo w/cassette player. Well maintained  Romans, trip to Italy over Fall  
dren. please contact Thayer Kramer  ships available tor undergraduate  by responsible female $2,000/obo.  Break, who's willing?  
WI\NTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS  FOR RENT  at 631-3344 as soon as possible. Have fun and get paid tool  and graduate students at accredit­ed colleges in the Usa regardless of  Lv. msg at 291-5366.  TNB rocks, Connolly  
289-9280  their GPA, finances, age or citizen- 
SE'LLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS  EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­MENT CENTER PAID  ship. Write or call tor FREE infer­mation and application  PERSONAL  Pete, you have been corrupted.  
251-1570  OPPORTUNITIES  Nathan and Luke, the freshrpen,  
http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  Scholarship Database Service  Quality Copies, Quickly! We're  nice to meet you.  
VICTORY TKTS  email:mmmrentals@aol.com  Earn money and resume experi- P.O. Box 432Notre Dame, IN  open early, late &weekends  
BllY'SELL'TRADE  232-2595  ence. The Early Childhood  46556-0432Barnyard8961 @hot- THE COPY SHOP  Connolly cultivates yeast!  
NCI FOOTBALL  Development Center at the  mail.com1-800-936-3706  LaFortune Student Center  
232-0964  That Pretty Place. Bed and  University of Notre Dame is current- Phone 631-COPY  Hercules needs a baby-sitter!  
wv,w.victorytickets.com  Breakfast Inn has space available  ly accepted applications from col- Quality Copies, Quickly!  • Doesn't want to go to Appalacia ...  
BLY/SELL ND TICKETS  for football/parent wknds.  lege students for part time employ­ment opportunities. The opening is  FOR SALE  Erin, I love you in plaid. I like red  Toby-Ft. Wayne king  
' '  27:J-3911  5 Rooms with private baths, $80­ for M-F 12:15-1 :30 (the position  socks too. -Luigi  
1·  $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  could be divided into MWF and TTH  SPRING BREAK 2001 - Who goes all the way home to Ft  
I ' ' ' '  NC FOOTBALL Tl~WANTED AM ­232-2378  campus Toll Road, Exit 11107, 1-800-418­ positions ) II you are interested in applying, please contact Thayer Kramer, Program Director, at 631­ Jamaica, Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring Campus Reps -2 Free Trips1 Free Meals-Book by 11/3.  Oawg Hockey 01 -Puck drops in February. Get ready.  Wayne to do laundry? Johnny Bambino, dove' sei?  
PM. ­288-2726  9487.  3344 for more information and an  Call 1-800-426-7710 or sunsplash- Hey Pepper' Thanks for calling the  Ciao Burke  
application  tours. corn.  other night1 ­Budget  

Thursday, October l 2, 2000 page 13
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Calendar of Events 

September 25-0ct_ober 30 
103 Hesburgh Library ~ 
Sign-up, Freslunen Retreat #31 · ,":, , , ,. .~ ~ (Nov. 3-4) 2POO) .. ,, : n:/"">~,:;:~;~:~;~\t'i/',~:"'"': Targeted Dorms. AllUlini;. B" '* ' ·· ,.&~1.1,~· ~•::·,~ Farley, Keough, Ho~4, 'D. .t,. , •.• /p.{ · 
P m·•W7. . ·C'i.cll;.,~.,~•••,t-..,..
M GI. 
c mn, asqlier a west, ~!:11\':r"'.~\.; 
\_·;.__,:_;;,,._.~_/· 
Keenan~Stanford 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Don M<:Neill;,::csc~;,~ <.J\;:1: 1• 
\/ •• 
.. . . . '~ , ~::~:?ffii ~it;, 
· · · · .i. ·. · ; 
. ·-·-, ~-_, s-{-> ;:"'-~i,f~"J,;·i· /;:.,,,,--_·.,-~;t ; ·:-'."'· 
Wednesday. October 11~ -10:0&p:m.•":;J;}: Morrissey Hall Chapel •··.~·t.:)~· . ·< ·. . lnterfajth Chris~.Night~J-~~r-·•;•..~ .··\fP 

~:~Z;riri::!
th $""!f~{~t~srtr: 
Weekenc:l::t~ 
Basilita of th',fSacrJt' 
Saturday,.Octobe,r.7Nt':• 30 minutes after,t;hf · ·· Most RevtAnlli 
·Bishop;,Gt~t,: 
. •·.· ·wf;. 

· Snnda)i,()ctob~' ·•·· 
a;oo--ti1k/ _. \\;,z 
Rev.Ji111 . ' 

10:00atm.:•·~:?~~,: 
· .M6srR· 11:45.a,~m.: ,:_:;:,:. ·Rev..Patti ·.· ...·. 
Ste~n Cent~~{ 
Saturday, Octob,e,a:/'l:. 
45 minµte$ #e.rffitg .Rev; Qa-v:i4J~. ·. . ·.. ·. 
. · . ' ·,: ::f:•;,''i;'I'. ~till. ·,-~. ,• . ,, ,· .:.--._--·_.;~:../}' -_,-.,_,. ·_~\'" 

Script~re:R,~cactiNJt:.~~~~ 
for this,,Co~~~9.~~nd~ 
·lstReaditii.::~:·:Irf:f.$8"~·· 
2nd Rciding . · Go_sp4· 
Sing for me 
by Steve Warner 
It was the first day of Senior week, May 14, 2000. Mother's Day. May in all her glory was enveloping Our Lady's campus. On that brilliant day of sun and new-formed flowers, thirty­six members of the Notre Dame Folk Choir made their way to the Maximum Security Prison in Michigan City, Indiana. 
The prison is on rhe edge of nowhere. Pase the city, hardly marked, hang a right-hand turn off US 20, keep your eye on the grotesque cooling tower ofthe energy plant which frowns down on the barbed wire and guards and pathetic brick structures that make up the destitution and despair of the Level Four incarceration unit. And here we are, on Mother's Day. 
It is the Choir's third trip to the prison. Each time, more and more inmates have shown up for our concert. On this day, almost six hundred of the offenders are here. The Catholic community of the prison -some of them just newly baptized -are proud as can be. We are "their choir;" -they are our hosts. For forty-five minutes before our concert, we mingle with the men of the prison. Jovial conversations, timid at first, but always with a sense ofhospitality and gratitude on their part. 
We sing our songs. One hour of music. A dedication to the men on death row (they are not allowed to attend the concert, as they are in permanent lock-down; however, they can view it on dosed-circuit tv). Some lively gospel songs, bringing the men to their feet. Always, a shouted admonition to "take your time!" AB we sing, there are tears. There are closed eyes .. Offenders gently rock back and forth. Many are there with Bibles clasped close to their hearts. 
And at the end of the hour, a long, joyful, standing ovation. The men know that we are not here for some isolated do-good venture. This is our third trip. We know some of these guys by name, or by their faces. Some, even their stories. Over the last few years, a bit ofadoption has 

taken place ... we pray for these men through the year. We remember them during the Lenten season. And we journey to sing for them, to ler them know that they are not forgotten and that they still have dignity, and that God forgives them their errors in this world -even when many of the voices in this world cannot. 
There is a cenain relief when we leave. The process of being searched, passing through four sets of iron bars, the dynamic of presenting music to such a need­ful group of human beings, and leaving again so quickly... this leaves a mark on the soul. We exit the dingy-green corridors ofsecurity, and then, suddenly, the May sunshine, now moving toward sunset, sur­rounds us again. So amazingly easy that we can walk around those bars, all those armed guards, and pass easily through the gates. 
There is silence around the choir, and a natural need to huddle. Across the street from the prison is a 
small picnic table. We gather there, to regroup, to pray for a moment for the men locked inside. Fr. Joe Ross, then the chaplain for the prison, points to the right side of the complex. "Death row," he says. We gaze at the brick stockade, which seems to radiate fear and loneliness. 
Sing for me! 

It is a voice pleading from deep inside death row. He is shouting to us, across the chasm that separates the free from the imprisoned. Sing for me! he cries. And his voice is like one who cries from the pits ofhell. Sing for me! 
And so we begin. Hallelujah, my Father, for giving us your Son.... Our voices leap across that chasm. Past the barbed wire, past the guards, past the bars. Sending him into the world to be given up for us .... We give up our voices, the song leaps from cell to cell, slips past the bars and the gates. We can see figures gathering at windows, though we cannot see faces. 
God bless you! the voice cries, on behalf ofhis brethren. And our song is raised all the louder, penetrating the Mile that few have walked. But musicians can reach out to the Mile, if their song is strong and true enough. 
Knowing we would bruise him, and smite him from the earth .... 
And we blink back our tears as we look down upon our Birkenstocks and our designer jeans. 
· Please! Sing just one more! So the voice cries again, and we obey. We are marching, we sing, we are marching in the light ofGod. And the sun spreads itself about us, and the song penetrates the prison one more time. 
Pray for us! He cries. And we shout back "We will!" And we do. 
Now, we know. We know why visiting the imprisoned is a "corporal work of mercy." "Corporal," or having to do with the flesh -we know, because without even seeing the man, we saw the face of Christ enfleshed in his words. We know, because we experienced the Word of God that could not be locked up: bars and guards and all the devices of human imprisonment could not hold back our simple song of hope. · 
De profundis clamavi ad te Domine: "Out of the depths I cry to you, 0 Lord." Never again will Psalm 130 mean the same thing. For we have heard a voice that came from those 
..

depths. And we have tasted what it means to minister to that Voice. 
Cl\MPIJ5 
MINISTRY 

..... page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 12, 2000 
NATIONAL LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 

lt>itching ace Halllpton powers Mets past Cardinals 6-2 

Benitez finished up. Russa said. "Hampton and the With two on and one out, With nearly every Mets play­
A,,sociatcd Press 

"There had been some Mets were a little better." Edgar Renteria sliced a long fly er in the dugout leaning on the doubts cast over Mike because Game 2 will be Thursday that right fielder Timo Perez top railing, Perez got them offST. LOUIS of a small sample of postsea­night at Busch Stadium with Al ran down on the warning to a fast start. Keeping up hisThis was the reason the New son play, and I think he erased Leiter starting for the Mets track. Jim Edmonds followed role as late-season sparkplug,York Mets were so eager to get those doubts," Mets manager against rookie Rick J\nkicl. with a high fly that left fielder he led off the game with a dou­Mike Hampton. 
B o b b y Acquired from Benny Agbayani caught just ble and took third when KilePitching every bit like an 
Valentine Houston last win­short of' the wall, and Edmonds bounced a curveball for a wildOctober ace, Hampton won for 
said. "fit's] a good start tc r to win at gave an "aw-shucks" skip as pitch.
the first time in the postsea­

And it for us, we know it's crunch time, he rounded first base. After Alfonzo walked, Piazza son, leading the Mets past the 
was a Hampton deliv­"I didn't breathe, I'll tell you grounded a double down the
St. Louis Cardinals 6-2 Jar from over"
good-luck ered in outpitch­that," Hampton said. third-base line. It was a goodWednesday night in Game 1 of victory for ing former Astros Hampton struck out four and sign for the Mets -the All­tr.e NL championship series. 
the wild Mike Plazza teammate Darryl walked three. He also got the Siar catcher had zero RBIs in"I wanted to be a contributor 
card Mets Kile. He blanked benefit of a defense that paid the four-game victory over San
instead of a liability,n Hampton Mets catcher 
-the last St. Louis on six extra attention to its position­Francisco and began the nightsnid. "I just wanted to do my s e v e n hits and silenced ing, making subtle shifts that as a career .211 postscasonpart and help this team win. I 
teams to the crowd of paid major dividends. hitter. Robin Ventura's sacri­
d dn 't do that in the first 

w.in the 52,225. Meanwhile, not even the fice fly made it 2-0.
sc,ries." 

NLCS opener went on to reach Hampton began the evening presence of a few St. Louis "I swung the bat a lot better
The Mets extended their 

the World Series. with a career postseason Rams -the NFL team scoring tonight, only because of' mypostseason scoreless streak to Mike Piazza put aside his record of 0-2 and a 5.87 ERA 43 points per game -helped teammates getting on ahead of 
a team-record 26 innings 

past playoff slumps, hitting an in four starts. boost the Cardinals hitters. me, giving me the opportunitybefore allowing two unearned RBI double in a two-run first A loser last week in the Several of the Mets recently to drive in the runs," Piazza
runs with two outs in the 

inning. Todd Zeile and Jay opening round at San expressed relief that their No. said.
ninth. 

Payton homered in the ninth Francisco, prompting some to 1 nemesis, the Braves, were "A good start for us, we
Hampton kept the big guy ­

and Edgardo Alfonzo scored a suggest Leiter should start the out of the playoffs. Secn~tly, know it's far from over," he
pinch-hitter deluxe Mark 

run and drove in another. opener, Hampton tamed a maybe they also knew how said. "Got to keep the pedal
McGwire -on the St. Louis 

"I liked the way we played, I Cardinals team that averaged well they matched up against down."
bnnch and left after the sev­

just didn't like the final score," eight runs a game in its first­St. Louis. Hampton beat out an infielde11th with a 3-0 lead. Relievers Cardinals manager Tony La round sweep of the Braves. The Mets went 6-3 against single in the fifth and later
John Franco and Armando 
Not that the Cardinals didn't the Cardinals this season, scored on Alfonzo's single. have their chances. They left mainly because New York's The Mets tacked on three the bases loaded in the first left-handed pitchers could can­runs in the ninth off Mike when Carlos Hernandez cel out the Cardinals' lefty hit­James. Zeite led off with a grounded out and, down 3-0, ters. St. Louis was just 17-23 home run, Agbayani singled threatened to tie it in the sev­in games started by opposing and Pavton homered over the enth. left-handers. left-field wall. 
.c ·c:0 :,,;­
,:, (!) N 
LOW 
"11 
:ti i5 
C: al
:,
::, 
:l!: n (!) i C: < :, 
in" 
IO :, 
E JlJ
student ~ 
C C. 
JlJ 
~ 
<( !!. 0 --0 
iil
~ cc 
C 
i "' Airfares CJ] 
a,
E 
0 lJ) 
::, 
"' 
cc
~ 
~
ci5 ,..
Eurailpasses 
a, C: s:: 
0, 0 
(J) 
n 
"' 
C: 
(.) .c 8. 0 More Than ,... u;· i 
Qi 0
100 Departure Cities ::, er 
.!.2 
z 
s:: 
·c:"' "' 
ffl %. 
a. 0.
Study Abroad 
:8 Ol 
::, "' cl 
a, i5
C) 
C: 
--0 "' 
C: ~ 
..9 
0 C:•. ::, 
0 
0, <" 
ffl 
'­
~ 0
student UnlV8rS8 ~ ~ 
':I' 
n,
(/)"' ::,
IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT 
1-0-::, 
a, 
(/) 
,f:. r:: 
"' '° 
0
:3 
V, ~ 
l!,' 
< studentuniverse.com <ti 
800.272.9676 


Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
Call us for\..

The TIAA-CREF 
• afree ~: 
mformation··•·package ..... ·,: 
,·
_,,,,

Advantage. 
Year in and year out, employees at education and research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy diversification among a range of expertly managed funds 

• 
A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service 

• 
A strong commitment to low expenses 

• 
Plus, afull range of flexible retirement income options 


For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF. 
ii 
Ensuring the future 
1 800.842.2776
for those who shape it.'M 
www. ti aa-cref. org 
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal lnve~tors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreernents. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Lrfe Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA·CREF 08/03 
THE TIAA-CREF ADVANTAGE 
" 
Investment Expertise 
Low Expenses 
Customized 
Payment Options 
Expert Guidance 
.•
..· 


Thursday, October 12, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT 
Dan Turnquist, Diplomat in Residence 
PRESENTS ON CAMPUS 

Tuesday, October 24th 
CAREER and INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES WITH THE STATE DEPARTMENT 
12:00 Noon to 1:30 p.m. Room 119 O'Shaughnessy 
Pizza & soda provided. Join us, even if you need to come late or leave early! 
INFORMAL DISCUSSIONS 
4:00 to 6:00 p.m. Room 119 O'Shaughnessy 
Schedule your meeting by e-mailing 
GOJNTERN. l@nd.edu 

• • • • TIPS • • • • 
Preparing for the Written Foreign Service Exam 
6:00 to 7:00 p.m. Room 119 O'Shaughnessy 
Co-sponsored by the Department of Government and the Career Center 
5:30 p.m. Junior Class Dinner and Coach Brey Presentation, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom* 
8:30 
p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 

8:30 
p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 


LaFortune Student Center Fall Break Hours of Operation 
Fri., 10/13 7:00 a.m. -Midnight Sat., 10/14 8:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. Sun., 10/15 8:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. Mon. -Friday, 10/16-10/20 
7:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. Sat., 10/21 8:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. Sun., 10/22 8:00 a.m. -2:00 a.m. The 24-hour lounge is closed. 

Friday. October 13 
7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:30 
p.m.Women's Soccer Game vs. Boston College, Alumni Field 

7:30 
p.m. Lecture by Sister Helen Prejan, author of "Dead Man Walking, McKenna Hall 


8:00 p.m.Padma Talwalkar, vocal­ist, presents a concert of Indian classic music, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Friday. October 20 
7:00 p.m. Women's Volleyball Game vs. Rutgers, Joyce Center Arena 
7:05 p.m. Men's Hockey Game vs. Northwestern, Joyce Center Fieldhouse* 
Polls 
continued from page 20 
head from the "others receiving votes" category. 
While Texas was picking up ½ins against noted football pow­erhouses like Louisiana-Lafayette, Houston and Oklahoma State, it also lost to 2-3 Stanford and then got pasted by Oklahoma 63-14. 
NC State's wins against Arkansas State, Indiana, Southern Methodist and Georgia Tech aren't exactly stunning vic­tories, at least the Wolfpack didn't lose to Stanford. NC State's only loss came against No. 5 Clemson in a 34-27 shootout. 
But Texas is supposed to be good. Didn't the Longhorns read all the preseason publications? Didn't they see their rankings? They are supposed to be unde­feated and challenging for the national title not losing to the Cardinal and getting whipped by one oftheir biggest rivals. 
So Bobby Bowden will continue 
page 15 

-
to spin doctor. He will beg the pollsters not to forget about the Seminoles. He vvill plead that they keep him team in their top 10 so 
Florida State can win the title. 
Because the real national championship isn't decided on the field, its decided in the polls. The best teams don't even get a 

-
chance to play for the title if their coaches don't know how to work the voters. 
"I think when it becomes later in the year when you are talking about 1-2-3, there's always jock­eying going on," Davie said. "That's part ofit. But the bottom line is that everything takes care ofitselfin the end. Especially here at Notre Dame because we play such good football teams. I would hope people recognize who we are playing on a regular basis." 
Did you hear that pollsters? That was Davie's case for a BCS bowl for his potentially 9-2 Irish. 
The r,iews expressed in this columnare those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Saturday. October 14 
7:30 
p.m. Men's Soccer Game vs. St. John's, Alumni Field 

7:30 
p.m. Lecture,"Religion and Intellectuals", Faculty Lounge, Hesburgh Library 


Saturday. October 21 
7:05 p.m. Men's Hockey Game vs. Northwestern, Joyce Center Fieldhouse* 
"'Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students 
Programs are subject to change without notice. For up to date information, check out the ND calendar, Today@ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 631-7308. To add an event to future calendars, please send the details about the activtty to sao@nd.edu. 
L . 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 12, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Baker's status with 
-
Giants uncertain 
<\s•ociatcd P rcss 
SAN FHANCISCO 

Dusty Baker has been won­dering whether the San Francisco Giants want him to return as manager. 
In an interview with KPIX­TV broadcast Monday night, !3akcr said he was disappoint­ed he hadn't received even a phone call from Giants presi­dcnt Peter Magowan after San Francisco was eliminated from the NL playoffs on ~;unday. 
The Giants. who finished the regular season with the NL West title and 
base bal I's 
"It hurts even more got to talk

best record 
a.t 97-65, when you come home to my wife, 
my mom 

W C r e for support and you 're 
and my

~nocked out 
getting ripped." dad. talk to

in four 
!Giants GM]

games by 
B r i a n

the wild Dusty Baker 
[Sabean]

card New 
Giants manager 
and the

York Mets. 
Baker, whose con­tract expires Dec. 31, has been criticized by fans and tne media for his moves dur­ing San Francisco's loss to !\'cw York. 
"It hurts even more when you come home for support and you're getting ripped. Rut that's the job," Baker told the station. "But at the same time, you start thinking, '!lave you worn out your wel­come here. and what's it going to be like a year from 
Expectant mother of twins with one year old child seeks child care assistance in Granger Good Salary, Monday-Friday Call Jasmin 277-5106 
eCollegeform,.oom 
now, or lhe next time people disagree with your opin­ions?"' 
Though he's considered an excellent players' manager and a respected administra­tor, Baker has just one post­season victory in eight sea­sons with the Giants. 
He already turned down a contract. extension earlier this year, and it's believed Baker will seek a new contract aver­aging around $2 million per year, which would make him the game's second highest• paid manager behind the Yankees' Joe Torre. 
'Tm a man, I'm a pro, and I ain't begging nobody for noth­
ing." Baker 
said. "I've 
organiza• tion and come up with a decision." 
Baker acrimoniously parted from the Dodgers in 1983 after eight seasons as a play• er. He has been mentioned for vacancies in Los Angeles and Arizona, two of the Giants' rivals in the NL West. 
121 S<Mh Nite:9 A.¥'81lt.18 Sotl(h Beno. Indiana 4'i617 
lhe Marketplace! 


Football 
continued from page 20 
high school player in Texas, he earned scores of awards and honors: selection as a USA Today first-team All-America defensive back, Parade prep All•American and a ranking of sixth nationally on listings of the top 100 national prospects by ESPN.com and The Sporting News. When people compared those accolades with an image of Sapp riding the bench, some began to question his talent. 
Ile wasn't one of those doubters. 
"I knew I'd have to work for it," Sapp said. "The guys who were in front of me. Deke Cooper and A'Jani Sanders, ended up teaching me. By me not playing last year, I actually gained more knowledge watching those guys. [Not playing] didn't really bother me, because I knew that when my tinie came, I would be ready." 
Now Sapp backs up senior Ron Israel at strong safety, usually playing a limited amount on defense. Although he'd be thrilled to become a starter. Sapp understands he has to bide his time. 
"[rree safety! Tony Driver and Ron Israel are great guys," Sapp said. "When I get in, they're happy for me. When they're in, I'm happy for 
Recycle 

The Obsel'4Vel-4. 
(21.9) 234-9000 


John J. Bowman General Manager Class of 1977 
HOMES FOR RENT 
2001-2002 SCHOOL YEAR 
-Don1us Properties has 4,5,6,7,8 and 10 bedroom houses available 
.. 

-Student neighborhoods dose to can1pus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2001-2002 School Year 
BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 8 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219) 274-1501 or (219) 234-2436 or (219) 674-2572 
them. Whoever makes the plays, the other person's happy." 
Despite coming off the bench, Sapp ranks just behind Israel in tackles with 17 this year. In Notre Dame's 20-14 
"After college, the NFL. that's nice to think about, but that's not really my main goal." Sapp said. "My main goal is just to get a degree. Football's OK, but I'm thinking of bigger and better things." 

victory against Stanford, he 
tallied four. "The guys who were Bv next in front ofme. Deke 
year, Sapp fig­
Cooper and A'Jani 
ures to be a 
major contrib• Sanders, ended up utor. teaching me. " 
"Next vear, I plan on· mak­
Gerome Sapp
ing an impact nationwide, strong safety 
not just at Notre Dame," Sapp said. "Once they put me out there for good, I feel like I can make the plays I need to make." 
If Sapp does move into the national spotlight, an NFL career might not be out of the question. But that's not first and foremost in his mind. 
Sapp came to Notre Dame in large part for the chance to be more than an athlete, to be a student­athlete. 
''We're all students, too, student ath­letes," Sapp said. "At 
other schools, you get just the athletics. You don't get the mix. They really stressed that as recruiters. You're going to take classes like other stu­dents. You're going to be like other students, to live and eat with other students. I know I actually enjoy thal." 


HEART OF CHICAGO 
The John Marshall Law School prides itself on a rich l O l -year history of diversity, innovation and opportunity. Learn about our programs and specialties during our visit to your campus, including: 
¦ 
Intellectual Property 

¦ 
Information Technology 

¦ 
Legal Writing 

¦ 
Trial Advocacy 

¦ 
January Admission 


( Dccem bcr LSA T accepted) 
"Law Fair" Tuesday, Oct 24 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center 
Or visit us at www.jmls.edu 
LEGACY. OF OFP0llTUNITY 
A LIFETIME OF ACHIEVEMENT'
II A 

THE 
JOHN MARSHALL LAW SCHOOL~ 
315 SOUTH PLYMOUTH Cou11.T, CHICAGO, IL 60604 800.537.4280 

Thursday, October 12, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
INTERHALL BASEBALL 
Keough squeaks by St. Ed's for championship 3-2 
run on a home run by short­Garafola, was 
By CHRIS FEDERICO ­
stop Andy Harris. golden in the first 
Spom Writer 
Playing with tho support of a lively pack of' fans. the under­dog Keough 'Hoos knocked off top-seeded St. Edward's to win the interhall baseball cham pi­onship 3-2 Wednesday night at Eck Baseball Stadium. 
Arter being destroyed 8-0 by St. Ed's in llrn first game of the season, Keough showed that the talented St. Ed's squad did not intimidate the 'Hoos. Led by the strong arm of pitcher Matl Prill. the Keough 
"\-Vhen we came out tonight, we knew that St. Ed's had the better team, but we stuck together and got it done," Prill said. "My arm was feeling a little dead all night. but my defense made the plays behind me to give us a chance." 
St. Edward's got on the board first in the first inning 
w h c n 
Harris 


"We knew St. Ed's reached on an
had the better team 
infield
but we stuck together 
hit and 
and got it done .., t h e n stole sec­ond. On
Matt Prill 
a n 
Keough pitcher attempt­ed pick­off, PriII 

inning, striking out the side. 
Keough tied it up in the second when first base­man Kevin McAbee reached on an error. Right fielder Chris Prill then hit a double to the gap in right­center, ddving in Mc.i\bee from first. 
In the top of the fourth, Keough would get a two­out walk from Brian Smith. 
Then McAbee hit a nv ball d o w n th"e I e ft field line that dropped in just fair for a double. Smith slid in under the tag at home plate to give Keough a 2­1 lead. · 
In their next inning, Keough pinch hitter Will Dubon reached on a fielder's choice. The next batter, Matt Lamberta, hit a clutch double to add an insurance run that would ERNESTO LACAYOfThe Observer later prove to be Matt Prill of the Keough 'Roos pitches against St. Edward's in last night's 
the difference in 
championship game. Prill held the Steds to just two runs. 
defense kept the explosive bats uf St. Ed's under control, giv­ing up only two runs on five hits. Prill pitched all six innings, had four strikeouts and only allowed one earned 
threw the ball away, and then centerfielder Matt Lamberta missed his target trying to 
throw  i-larris  out  at  third,  
allowing him to score.  
St.  Ed's  pitcher,  Mike  


the game. 
Relief pitcher Tim Greene then struck out the next two batters to end the inning. 
St. Ed ·s tried to mount a 
rally in its last at-bat when shortstop Andy Harris once again came up big with a lead­off solo home run to bring them within one run. Prill would allow no more, though, retiring three of the next four batters to preserve the upset for the 'Roos. 
St. Ed's player and coach Judson Penton was frustrated with his team's performance. 
"We blew a lot of chances and left a lot of guys on the bases," Penton said. "We also suffered some tough calls on the bases. I think that talent­wise, we're probably the stronger team, and maybe on 
any other night we would have won. But I have got to tip my hat to those guys [the 'Roos] ­they came out here and put it all together tonight. I wish I could say we'd fight back. but that's the tough thing about these short, single-elimination games." 
Keough first baseman Kevin McAbee, who had a solid offensive night with an RBI double and a run-scored, summed up the night, "I love playing with these guys. St. Ed's may have been better than us, but we had more heart, and we came out here tonight and won it all." 
page 18  The Observer . SPORTS  Thursday, October 12, 2000  
...  ---=----=----=----=-----=----=----=-----_-_-_-_---::_-=-._-=-._-=..-::_--=-.--:_-_-_---::__----:_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_--:_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_  
VOLLEYBALL  

Belles struggle in straight-game loss to Kalamazoo 
-
1student l !Airiares I 
I ~~~u~f!~IV!!!!! IJ 
il  Eurailpasses MoreThan  f!  
j  100 Departure Cities  ~  
l!  Study Abroad  II  
I~­ ~  

! 


By ALICIA ORTIZ Spons Writer 
The Belles volleyball team bat­tled againsl tbc Kalamazoo College Hornets Wednesday, dropping the match in three games. The game leaves Saint Mary's struggling at 2-8. 
They lost to the 6-4 Hornets 15-4, 15-13, 15-5 
"Kalamazoo had a lot of depth, especially offensively," coach Julie Schroeder-Bick said. "We did not block at all." 
The Hornets proved to be tough competition two weeks ago when they played at Saint Mary's. They won in a four game series of 15-7, 7-15, 15-7. While the Belles have improved over the season, so have the Hornets. 
··we were flat against Kalamazoo in the first and third games," Schroeder-Biek said. "The second game was much better. We served well." 
Denise Langolis and Jamie Dineen each served two aces. 
Communication was a prob­lem for the Belles, said outside hitter Angie Meyers. 
" We have our good games where we cannot stop talking on the court," said Meyers. "Then 

EXPLORE THE 


WORLD'S RELIGIONS whlle earning college credtt 
• Siudy for a full ocademic year in Taiwan, Thailand, India and Israel 
• Earn up to JO undagraduate credits 
• 
Pursue yauT academic studies of religicm, anilrropology, and international studies through readings, leciures anJ participation in religiau.s and culntral Tiiual.s and aaillitie.s 

• 
E,q,eri~nce life in a Buddhist mnple, a Tibetan mona.<rery, a Hindu mission 


FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM loNGlsIAND
{631) 287-8474 
~R.5r;---­

e-mail: fv.®southampt:oo..liunet.edu &-~ www.southampton.edu/fw 2}9 Montauk Highwdy • Southam11mn, NY l 1968 
GLOBAL EDUCATION FOR SOCIAL CHANGE 
we have our bad games when second ranked team in the we do not communicate at all." MIM. with a record of 7-2. Meyers had 13 kills and 11 "We arc expl'rimcniiog to add 
digs.  versatility  to  our  game,"  
Despite loss­ Schroeder­ 
es, the team has had strong individual per­ "We have to play intensely and  Bick said. The Belles have been  
f or man c es,  maintain our focus."  practicing  
particularly in  hard for this  
defensive spe­cialist Victoria  Julie Schroeder-Biek  match. season  This has  
Butcko  and  Belles coach  bee .  ups and  
middle  hitter  downs  for  
Jolie LeBeau,  them,  but  
Meyers said.  they  have  

"Vi1;toria has had an awesome played hard all throughout. season, she always digs up the "We played well against Calvin ball," Meyers said. "Jolie blocks on their home court," the ball. which has helped our Schroeder-Bick said. " We have offense". to play intensely and maintain 
Friday the Belles face off our f~cus throughout the against Calvin College. It is the match. 



CLICKRADIO 


When the game is on the line, we're there for you! 

• 
FREE Checking •Low-Interest Student Loans 

•Convenient 
ATMs • FREE Visa Check Card 

• 
FREE Internet Ban.king • Great Rates on Auto Loans 


~@
~·u,.-o,; 
Independent of the University 

1Ja 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT Uffl'ON 
For People. pot for Profit. 
19033 Douglas Road Notre Dame, IN 46556 800/522-6611 www.ndfcu.org 


Thursday, October 12, 2000 The Obseroer . TODAY page 19 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

HI, I'M INTERESTED IN 
EXCEU.ENTI 
WE CAN

GIVING THE UNIVE~lTY 
'o\o'lt\'.
BUILD JUST

MONEY FOR A STATE-Of-WHATYOV
THE-ART 1.1:ARNINS FACILITY 
'o"-~'. 
-
_,__,J \itA~~ 
Fox TROT 
MY H08B1T MA&E 
COMMANDS THE OUN~Eot,i WALLS 
To CIWMBLE. 
MY ELF NECROMANCER COMMANDS HI'S Sl<ELE.ToN WARRIORS To ADVANCE. 
\{~ I 
BILL AMEND 
YOU'D THINI( HERE'S

YOUR HUMAN 
If MOMS SoMETH1NG M'l'-YOU To CLEAR THAT ! REALL'Y Oil> A6oVT MESS OFF THE f ~UVIP ALL, "DEMON THEY'D MOTHS"... 
MOTHER CoMM~DS 
\ D1N1Nc; ROOM TAB(:. I 
MENTION IT MAYBE IT'S IN THE RULE AN ASBllE• 


BoolC. 
\ 

Hell really is other people. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Calls after bad 66 Daly of "Judging 1 Area sweeper? calls Amy" 37 Shipboard title: 67 Rosie
6 Flexible, in a 
Abbr. O'Donnell's 39 N.Y.C. cultural Muppet friend 

way 
10 Isn't gentle with center 68 Wind
14 Castle 40 Nay sayers15 Sour fruit 42 Tennessee's 
DOWN

16 Substitution in a state flower 
list 1 Free (of) 
45 1986 U.S.S.R. 
2 Exist en masse17 Condescend 

launch 18 Endorse 3 "Agnus_"
46 Doctors' frolic? 19 Tabula 4 One who's50 Bolsters the casting about?
20 Radicals' bash? confidence of 5 Broke a promise
23 Muralist Rivera 53 Best Supporting Actor of 1999 6 Like certain 
25 0. Henry plot profs.
twists 54 Physicists' fete? 7 Second-century 
26 Excellent 57 Director Kazan date
hip-hop affair? 58 Pinkish 8 Goldbricks
29 "What to 59 Riverbank do?" romper 9 Middling beginning?
30 One who hits 63 Kind of car the high notes 64 Part of G.M.T. 10 How some 
interest is paid 

31 Blender button 65 Afresh 11 Arcade pioneer 
12 Not be frugal 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
13 Emulates St. N A -,-,H,-r-:-Er:E~H,...A..,....,.,,W,.,, George 
0 R A L B I N o 21 Convergence 34 Title for Robert 50 • of robins in 56 Major NBC star T E points Walpole her hair" 
60 Company once

B o -;::;-t-;::-t-:-:-t-:::-1111_._, 22 Lowdown 
36 Feign 

51 Tarnish owned by 
A L 23 Friend of 38 Lanka Howard Hughes 
52 Grafting shootPythias 
41 Withered 
61 Cousin of a

24 Blithering sort 55 Vampire
43 Atahualpa moose
chronicler26 Cake with a kick subject Stoker 62 Part of a Reuben
27 Time to look 44 Peppers, ahead perhaps 28 Pre-exam 47 Peter Ustinov Answers to any three clues in this puzzle feeling, maybe autobiography are available by touch-tone phone: 32 Like 7-Down 48 Judean Plateau 1·900·4?0-5656 (95¢ per minute) . B L A R E S L E A O M I T 
33 1960,s locale Annual subscriptions are available for the R E G A L E O U R M E T E middleweight 49 Attacked by best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 A G E N T S P P S B R E R champ Griffith mosquitoes years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2000  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kirk Cameron, Luciano Pava­ you have it. Don't get involved in joint financial ventures. You will not  
rotti, Chris Wallace, Tony Kubek,  win if you put your money into risky  
SusanAnton  investments. 000  
Happy Birthday: This will be a  LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your  
busy year. You must be well-orga­ mate will be eager to be with you.  
nized and practical if you want to make the most of all the opportuni•  Plan to spend some quality time togetheL You will have an interest in  
ties around you. Acceptance, com­ having children or doing more with  
promise and moderation will be the  them.000  
key to your success. Work with those  SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You  
who have as much talent as you, and  will have a problem with female co­ 
you will reach your goals. Your num­bers: 9, 13, 28, 31, 33, 42  workers. Don't say things you'll regret later. The more you take on,  
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your  the better you'll look to your boss.  
anxious nature will get the better of  000  
you ii you think your mate is being  SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.  
unfair or dishonest with you. You  21): To find physical outlets for your  
will tend to have temper tantrums if  high-powered energy, participate in  
you lose control. 000  competitive sports or join a fitness  
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You  club. You need to test your endur­ 
may take things the wrong way at  ance and stamina. 0000  
work. One-sided attractions or infat­ CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):  
uations are likely. Try to keep things  Your home life will be unstable if  
in perspective. Your reputation is at stake.000 ·  you don't pay particular attention to loved ones. Neglect will lead to lone­ 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You  liness. Make personal changes that  
can do things with children that will  will please your family. 00  
be beneficial to your relationship. Sign up for creative courses. 0000  AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your need to travel will lead to  
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You  unusual destinations. Mix business  
will find a lot of activity going on at  with pleasure if possible. Do a little  
home, perhaps because more people are there. Acceptance will be the key  sightseeing, but be sure to attend to business. Your interest in foreign cul­ 
to survival. 00 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't  tures will benefit you when dealing with others. 0000  
push your luck at home. It is best to  PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your  
get out with friends. You need to be  need to overspend will cause finan­ 
involved in activities you can learn  cial difficulties later on. Don't give  
from. Don't let in-laws goad you into an argument. 000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You  into the demands of children and friends. Give them your time, not your cash. 000  
will be spending your money before  

Birthday Baby: You'll be fired up and ready to make a difference from a young age. Your need to help those with less ability will build a good reputa­tion. You are loyal, relentless and quick to find solutions. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
©2000 Univezsal Press Syndicate 

--~--~--~------------------------------------------------~---------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 



Anail-biter 
St. Edwards and Keough faced o}J to decide the inlerhalt baseball championship. 
PORTS 
page 17 
O
THE-page 20 BSERVER Thursday, October 12, 2000 
FOOTBALL 

Safety Sapp plays many different roles for Irish 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
As,ociJrc Spum Ediror 
Sophomore strong safpty Gerome Sapp is content stretching like Silly Pully into any position the Irish need him to play. 
'Tm kind of like a rubber band man," Sapp said. "l do whatever they ask me to." 
So far, one of his biggest roles has been on sp1\cial teams, where the Irish rely on Sapp to chase down opposing players on kickoff and punt returns. 
"I play a major factor in special teams," Sapp said. "As of right now, I'm leading the. team in special teams points." 
/\s a freshman, Sapp made 164 special teams appearances. llc's maintained his playing time on special teams this year a.s Notre Dame's special teams unit has become the program's l'orte. 
"Our roaches are rnally preparing us for what we have to do, so we'll be ready for any­thing that they [opposing teams! can possibly think of to come at us," he said. 
While he enjoys special teams since it allows him to help the team, defense is his preferred position. 
"I like defense better," Sapp said. "In high school, I felt like I was part of the defense, and at any minute, I could play a part in the game. Special teams offers the same things, but defense I love." 
Last year. Sapp saw action in the secondary against Kansas, Michigan State, Oklahoma and Stanford. Against Michigan State, he came through with a pass interception, and in the game with Stanford, he made what he consid­ers his best play to date. 
"In the Stanford game last year, on a punt I ran down Troy Walters, the guy that broke all the PAC-10 records, from behind and tackled him." Sapp said. "The camera was zoomed in on me. and my mom saw it and called me when I got back. That's probably one of my highlights." 
Most of the time, though, he found himself watching then-seniors A'Jani Sanders and Oekc Cooper. 
That came as a big adj•1stment for Sapp. As a 
see FOOTBALL/page 16 


College football 2000 -the real political race 
All1•r a head to head battle I must be talking about the one loss teams like Northwestern almost be worth a few extra wins. exactly what happened," he said. beLwuen two worthy opponents, a presidential debate last night, and North Carolina State are Sure a team still has to go out and "You just don't have time to follow spokesman right? ranked 17th and 26th, respective­·win all its games but if its not it. It's not like Iam going home for one of 
Wrong. ly. highly ranked at the beginning, it and reading Lhosc newspapers the sides I was talking about Bobby If Bobby can sweet talk the vot­probably just won't be highly and following it and looking at immediate­Bowden and the Florida State ers into keeping his one-loss team ranked at the end. Just ask who's injured and who isn't. You ly jumps on Seminoles. After his team's loss to ranked near the top, he can Tulane or Marshall. NI they did arc just trying to try and evaluate television Miami last Saturday, Bowden increase his chances ofgoing to a was win all their games in a sea­it. It's an inexact deal." and says went on television and told BCS bowl while other one-loss son and neither team got even a A team like Texas can use that that his side America that he didn't see any t.eams are left out in t.he cold. If' second look from ihe BCS. inexact deal to recover from some will win the mason why a team with one loss both Northwestern and Florida Irish head coach Hob Davie said bad losses thanks to a high pre­battle. In a couldn't win the national champi­State end up with two losses and he only spends about 20 minutes season ranking. The coaches poll process onship. neither team wins its respective filling out his poll every Saturday rated Texas at No. 8 while the AP 
Mike Connolly

commonly And of course Bobby is right. A conference, who do you think will night. He just doesn't have enough poll pegged the Longhorns as the known as team with one loss can still win be ranked higher? time to look at every team, evalu­No. 7 team; two writers even gave spin doctor­the national title ifthat team wa.c; Florida State will always get the ate their pluses and minuses and Texas first place votes. 
Outside

ing that rated highly enough in the presea­benefit uf the doubt in rankings make informed decisions. I !is pri­Now fives games and two losses spokesman Looking In son polls. One-loss teams like over teams with identical record mary job is to get his team ready later. the Longhorns are still in tries to con­Florida State and Miami arc still -no matter who each team lost for next week, not figure out if the top 25 while 4-1 North vince the ranked in the top 10 of both the to -because Florida State always Oregon State is tor real or not. Carolina State can only scratch its voters that his side will win in the ESPN coaches poll and the has a high preseason ranking. "You use your experiences over end. Associated Press poll. Meanwhile, And that preseason ranking can the last 20 years more so than 
m: POLLS/page 15 

at ITA All American Rowing vs. Navy Stone Mountain, GA at Michigan Scace Saturday, 11 a.m. 
.. SPORTS (I) 
Today-Sunday Saturday, TBA t~~ 
ATA •
•

v.s.. Boston College Cross country vs. St. John's 11 Friday, 7:30 p.m. Pre-National Meet ~ Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 
GLANCE 

Saturday, TBA 








